This writ petition is filed for a mandamus to set aside notice in 

FileNo.A1/728/2015, dated 22.09.2015, of respondent No.2.         
The petitioners pleaded that petitioner No.1 and his brothers andsisters along with their parents have acquired various properties with thejoint family funds in the name of different members of the joint family.
That on 08.06.1995, the father of petitioner No.1 died intestate and on09.10.2011, his mother also died intestate, that on 11.05.2015, thepetitioners along with other family members have partitioned the joint familyproperties under a registered partition deed, bearing document No.5590 of2015, and that on 15.07.2015, the petitioners have made applications torespondent No.2 seeking mutation of their names in the property register inrespect of the properties, which have fallen to their respective shares. 
Thatunder the impugned notice, dated 22.09.2015, the Commissioner of respondent No.2 has returned the said applications by informing that if thepetitioners pay fee in respect of each of the items of the properties, forwhich mutation is sought, totalling Rs.15,49,078/-, their request will bereconsidered.  
Feeling aggrieved by this action on the part of respondentNo.2, the petitioners filed this writ petition.        Mr.P.Lakshma Reddy, learned counsel for the petitioners, submittedthat none of the provisions of the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965(for short the Act), authorizes respondent No.2 to collect any fee formutation of the names of the owners of the properties based on the deed ofpartition and that therefore, the action of respondent No.2 in returning theapplications of the petitioners for nonpayment of fee and demanding theaforesaid sum as purported fee for mutation is wholly illegal and arbitrary.      
This Court has adjourned the case on 24.11.2015 for filingcounter-affidavit.  Today, at the hearing, Mr.N.Praveen Kumar, learnedstanding counsel for the Municipalities (TS) appearing for respondent No.2,submitted that as respondent No.2 has not furnished instructions,counter-affidavit is not prepared.       

I have carefully examined the case with reference to the pleadingsand the provisions of the Act.  

The relevant provision, which deals with levyof duty by way of surcharge on transfer of property, is Section 120 of theAct.  The said provision envisages description of instrument and the amounton which duty shall be levied.  

Clause (b) of Section 120 of the Act, which isrelevant in this context, reads as under:         120. Method of assessments of duty on transfers ofproperty:- The duty on transfers of property shall be levied:       (a)        (b) at such rate as may be fixed by the Government, notexceeding five per centum on the amount specified below againstsuch instrument; Description of instrumentAmount on which duty shall be levied(i) Sale of immovableproperty (ii) Exchange of immovableproperty (iii) Gift of immovableproperty (iv) Mortgage withpossession of immovable property (v) Lease for a termexceeding one hundred years or in perpetuity ofimmovable property The amount or value of theconsideration for the sale, as set forth in the instrument or themarket value of the propertywhich is the subject matter of thesale whichever is higher. T

he market value of the propertyof greater value, which is thesubject matter of exchange. The market value of the propertywhich is the subject matter of thegift. The amount secured by the mortgage, as set forth in theinstrument. An amount equal to one-sixth ofthe whole amount or value of therents which would be paid ordelivered in respect of the firstfifty years of the lease as set forthin the instrument.        

A careful perusal of the above reproduced provision would reveal thatas many as five kinds of documents have been envisaged for collection ofduty/surcharge.  

These documents do not include partition deeds.The learned standing counsel for the Municipalities (TS) appearing forrespondent No.2 has fairly conceded that no provision other than Section120 of the Act deals with levy of duty/surcharge on the instrumentspertaining to immovable property.  

As the partition deed is not included inSection 120 of the Act, respondent No.2 has no power or authority todemand any duty or surcharge.  

Therefore, it follows that the impugnednotice, by which the petitioners applications were returned for nonpaymentof fee of Rs.15,48,078/- is liable to be declared as illegal and arbitrary andaccordingly, it is declared as such.  

The petitioners are permitted tore-submit their applications for mutation.  

On receipt thereof, respondentNo.2 shall consider the same, without insisting on payment of any fee, takean appropriate decision, in accordance with law, and communicate the same to the petitioners, within a period of one month from the date of receipt of acopy of this order.   

The Writ Petition is accordingly allowed.        

As a sequel to allowing the writ petition, W.P.M.P.No.49065 of 2015filed by the petitioners for interim relief shall stand disposed of asinfructuous.



