PETITIONER:MAKTUL	Vs.RESPONDENT:Mst.  MANBHARI & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:23/05/1958BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.SUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  918		  1959 SCR 1099ACT:       Customary  Law-Inheritence-Hindu	 in  Punjab  succeeding	 to       maternal	 grandfather's estate-Such property,  if  ancestral       qua his sons-Stare decisis-Rule, when inapplicable.HEADNOTE:Under the customary law of the Punjab property inherited  bya Hindu male from his maternal grandfather is not  ancestralproperty qua his sons.Narotam Chand v. Mst.  Durga Devi, I. L. R. (1950) Punj.  1,approved.Lehna  v. Musammat Thakyi, (1895) 30 P. R. I24 and  MusammatAttar  Kaur  v.	 Nikkoo, (1924) I. L. R.  5  Lah.  356,	 notapproved.The  rule of stare decisis is not an inflexible rule and  isinapplicable  where  the decision is clearly  erroneous	 andwhen its reversal does not shake any titles or contracts  oralter the general course of dealing.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 150 of 1955.Appeal	from the judgment and decree dated August 20,  1952,of the Punjab High Court in Regular First Appeal No. 107  of1949 arising out of the judgment1401100and  decree dated March 22, 1948, of the Court of  the	sub-Judge 1st Class, Panipat, in Suit No. 361 of 1947.Dr.  J. N. Banerjee and K. L. Mehta, for the appellant.Gopal Singh, for respondents Nos. 1 to 9.1958.  May 23.	The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR	J.-If a Hindu governed by the customary	 lawprevailing   in	  the  Punjab  succeeds	 to   his   maternalgrandfather's estate, is the property in his hands ancestralproperty   qua	his  own  sons?	  This	is  the	 short	 andinteresting  question  of law which arises in  this  appeal.The  appellant is the son of Sarup, respondent 10.   On	 thedeath  of his mother Musammat Rajo, respondent 10  inheritedthe suit properties from his maternal grandfather Moti.	  OnMarch  22, 1927, he executed a registered mortgage  deed  inrespect	 of  the  said properties in favour  of	 Shibba	 theancestor of respondents I to 9 for Rs. 5,000.  Subsequently,on  April 12, 1929, he sold the equity of redemption to	 thesaid  mortgagee Shibba for Rs.	11,000.	 In Suit No. 145  of1946  filed by the appellant in the court of the  Sub-Judge,Panipat, from which the present appeal arises, the appellanthad  claimed  a	 declaration that the  two  transactions  ofmortgage  and  sale  in	 question  did	not  bind  his	 ownreversionary rights, because the impugned transactions	werewithout	 consideration and were not supported by  any  legalnecessity.  'His allegation was that his family was governedby  the	 custom	 prevailing in the Punjab  and,	 under	thiscustom,	 the property in suit was ancestral property and  hewas  entitled  to  challenge its alienation  by	 his  fatherrespondent 10.	Respondents 1 to 9 disputed the	 appellant'sright  to  bring  the  present	suit  and  urged  that	 thealienations by respondent 10 were for consideration and	 forlegal  necessity.   It	was,  however,	common	ground	thatrespondent 10 and the appellant were governed by the  customprevailing in the Punjab.  The learned trial judge held thatthe property in dispute was ancestral qua the appellant1101and  that  the impugned alienations were  not  effected	 forconsideration  or  for legal necessity.	 He,  however,	heldthat  the  appellant  was  not born at	the  time  when	 themortgage  deed	in question was executed and so he  was	 notentitled  to challenge it.  In the result the appellant	 wasgiven  a declaration that the sale in dispute did  not	bindthe  appellant's reversionary rights in the  property  afterthe death of respondent 10.  The appellant's claim in regardto  the mortgage was dismissed.	 Respondents 1 to 9 went  inappeal	against this decree to the District Judge at  Karnaland contended that the suit had abated in the trial court asa  result of the death of one of the defendants pending	 thedecision  of the learned trial judge.  The learned  DistrictJudge  rejected this contention but he set aside the  decreeand  remanded the suit for proceedings for substituting	 thelegal  representatives of the deceased defendant  Ram  Kala.After  remand the legal representatives of the deceased	 RamKala  were  brought on record and  ultimately  the  originaldecree	passed	by  the trial court ",as  confirmed  by	 thelearned	 trial judge.  Respondents I to 9  again  challengedthis decree by preferring an appeal to the District Judge atKarnal.	  The learned District Judge held that the value  ofthe  subject-matter of the suit was more than Rs. 5,000	 andso  he	ordered	 that the memorandum  of  appeal  should  bereturned  to  respondents I to 9 to enable them to  file  anappeal before the High Court.  That is how respondents I  to9  took their appeal to the High Court of Punjab.  The	HighCourt  took  the  view	that the appeal	 had  in  fact	beenproperly  filed the District Court; but even so it  did	 notask respondents 1 to 9 to go back to the District Court, butcondoned  the  delay  made by the said	respondents  in	 thepresentation  of the appeal before itself and  proceeded  todeal  with  the appeal on the merits.  The High	 Court	heldthat  the  property  inherited by  respondent  10  was	'notancestral property qua the appellant, and so it allowed	 theappeal	preferred  by respondents 1 to 9 and  dismissed	 theappellant's suit.  In view of the fact that the point of lawraised	before	the High Court was not free from  doubt	 theHigh1102Court  ordered	that  parties should bear  their  own  coststhroughout.   The appellant then applied for and obtained  acertificate  from the High Court under the first part of  s.110  of	 the  Code  of Civil Procedure.	  It  is  with	thiscertificate  that  the present appeal has come	before	thisCourt  and  the	 only point which has been  raised  for	 ourdecision  is whether the property in suit can be held to  beancestral property between the appellant and respondent 10.Under the Hindu law, it is now clear that the only  propertythat can be called ancestral property is property  inheritedby  a  person from his father, father's father	or  father'sfather's  father.   It	is  true  that	in  Raja   ChelikaniVenkayyamma Garu v. Raja Chelikani Venkataraman ayyamma	 (1)the Privy Council had held that under Mitakshara law the twosons  of  a Hindu person's only daughter  succeed  on  theirmother's  death	 to  his  estate  jointly  with	 benefit  ofsurvivorship as being joint ancestral estate.  This decisionhad given rise to a conflict of judicial opinion in the HighCourts of this country.	 But in Muhammad Husain Khan v. BabuKishva	Nandan Sahai (2) this conflict was set at rest	whenthe  Privy Council held that under Hindu law a son does	 notacquire by birth an interest jointly with his father in	 theestate	 which	the  latter  inherits  from   his   maternalgrandfather.   The  original  text  of	the  Mitakshara	 wasconsidered and it was observed that the ancestral estate  inwhich, under the Hindu law, a son acquires jointly with	 hisfather	an  interest  by  birth, must  be  confined  to	 theproperty descending to the father from his male ancestor  inthe male line.	Sir Shadi Lal, who delivered the judgment ofthe  Board,  explained	the earlier decision  of  the  PrivyCouncil	 in Raja Chelikani Venkayyamma Garu's case  (1)	 andobserved  that	in  the said case " it	was  unnecessary  toexpress	 any opinion upon the abstract question whether	 theproperty which the daughter's son inherits from his maternalgrandfather  is	 ancestral property in the  technical  sensethat  his son acquires therein by birth an interest  jointlywith him." The learned Judge further clarified the  positionby stating that the(1) (19O2) L.R. 29 I.A. 156.(2) (1937) L.R. 64 I.A. 250.1103phrase	'ancestral property' used in the said  judgment	 wasused in the ordinary meaning, viz., property which  devolvesupon  a person from his ancestor and not in  the  restrictedsense  of  the	Hindu  law which imports  the  idea  of	 theacquisition  of interest on birth by a son jointly with	 hisfather.	  Thus	there is no doubt that under the  Hindu	 lawproperty inherited by a person from his maternal grandfatheris not ancestral property qua his sons.	 The question  whicharises	in the present appeal is: what is the true  positionin  regard  to	such  a property  under	 the  Customary	 lawprevailing in the Punjab ?This  question	has been considered by Full Benches  of	 theHigh  Court  of	 Punjab on three occasions.   Let  us  firstconsider these decisions.  In Lehna v. Musammat Thakri	(1),it  was	 held  by the Full Bench (Roe S. J.  and  Rivaz	 J.,Chatterji  J.  dissenting) that " in the  village  communitywhere  a daughter succeeds, either in preference to,  or  indefault	 of, heirs male, to property which, if	the  descenthad  been  through a son, would be ancestral  property,	 shesimply	acts  as  a  conduit to	 pass  on  the	property  asancestral  property  to her sons and their  descendants	 anddoes not alter the character of the property simply  becauseshe  happens to be a female ". Chatterji J.,  however,	heldthat the word "ancestral" can only be used in a relative andnot  in	 a  fixed or absolute sense in	customary  law,	 andbefore	this character can be predicated of any property  inthe  hands  of a male owner, it must be found  that  it	 hasdescended  to him from a male ancestor and in the case of  aclaim by collaterals, from a male ancestor common to him andthe  claimants.	 It is apparent from the  majority  judgmentthat  the  learned judges did not find	the  alleged  customabout the character of the property proved by any  evidence.They proceeded to deal with the question rather on a  prioriconsiderations	and the main basis for the decision  appearsto  be	that  the  property cannot  lose  its  character  ofancestral  property  merely because it has  come  through  afemale	who succeeded her father in default of	male  heirs.Chatterji J. dissented from this(1) [1895] 30 P.R. 124.1104approach.  He observed that he could not recall any instancein  which  property  derived  from  or	through	 any  femaleancestor  among Hindus had been decided to fall	 within	 thecategory of ancestral property under the customary law.	  Healso pointed out that the statement of the learned author ofthe Digest on the Customary Law of the Punjab on this  pointdid  'not support the majority view.  Thus it would  not  beunreasonable to say that the majority decision in this	caseis  not a decision on the proof of custom as such. The	samepoint was again raised before a Full Bench of	  the	HighCourt of Punjab in Musammat Attar Kaur v.    Nikkoo	(1).Sir Shadi Lal C. T. who delivered the principal judgment  ofthe Full Bench conceded that there was " a great deal to  besaid in favour of the proposition that, unless the land cameto  a person by descent from a lineal male ancestor  in	 themale  line, it should not be treated as ancestral." He	alsoconceded that the decision in the earlier Full Bench case ofLehna (2) did not rest upon any evidence relating to  customon  the	 subject but was based on what the majority  of	 thejudges	considered  to	be the	general	 principles  of	 thecustomary  law, and upon the argument abinconvenienti.	 Thelearned	 Chief Justice then took into account the fact	thatthe question about the character of such property even underthe Hindu law was not free from doubt and he referred to theconflict  of  judicial opinion on the  said  point.   Havingregard	to this conflict the learned Chief Justice  was	 notinclined to reopen the issue which had been concluded by theearlier	 Full  Bench decision, and basin(,  himself  on	 thedoctrine of stare decisis he held that the majority decisionin  Lehna's  case (2), should be treated as  good  law.	  Itwould  be noticed that the -judgment of Sir Shadi Lal C.  J.clearly indicates that, on the merits, he did not feel quitehappy about the earlier decision in Lehna's case  (2).It  appears that the same question was again  raised  beforeanother	 Full Bench of the High Court of Punjab in  -NarotamChand v. Mst.  Durga Devi (3).	In this(1) (1924) I.L.R. 5 Lah. 356.	 (2) [1895] 30 P.R. 124.(3) I.L.R. [1950] Pun. 1.1105case  the main question which arose for decision  was  underart.  2	 of the Punjab Limitation (Custom) Act	I  of  1920.This  article  governs	suits for  possession  of  ancestralimmoveable  property which has been alienated on the  groundthat  the  alienation  is  not	binding	 on  the   plaintiffaccording  to  custom.	 It  provides  for  two	 periods  oflimitation  according as a declaratory decree is or  is	 notclaimed.   In dealing with the point as to whether the	suitin  question attracted the provisions of art. 2 of Act I  of1920, the Full Bench had to consider whether the property insuit was ancestral property or not; and that raised the sameold question whether property from maternal grand-father  inthe  hands  of	a grandson can	be  described  as  ancestralproperty  or that such property in the hands of	 a  daughtercan  be given that description.	 The matter appears to	havebeen elaborately argued before the Full Bench.	The previousFull  Bench decisions were cited and reference was  made  totwo  decisions of the Privy Council which we will  presentlyconsider.   Mahajan  J., as he then was, who  delivered	 themain  judgment	of  the Full Bench held	 that  the  propertyinherited  by a Hindu from his maternal grandfather  is	 notancestral qua his descendants under the customary law of thePunjab.	  The  learned judge also held that  the  two  PrivyCouncil	 decisions  cited  before the court  had  in  effectoverruled  the	earlier Full Bench decisions of	 the  PunjabHigh  Court.   It is this last decision of  the	 Full  Benchwhich  has  been followed by the High Court in	the  presentproceedings.  The appellant contends that the high Court wasin  error in not following the earlier Full Bench  decisionson  this  point	 and  it is urged on  his  behalf  that	 thedecision of the last Full Bench in Narotam Chand's case (1),should not be accepted as correct.  We do not think that theappellant's contention is well-founded.So  far	 as  the statement of the customary  law  itself  isconcerned,  Rattigan's	Digest	which  is  regarded  as	  anauthority  on the subject, does not support the	 appellant'scase.  Inpara. 59 of the Digest of Civil Law for the  Punjabchiefly based on the customary law it is(1) I.L.R. [1950] Pun. 1.1106stated	that  ancestral immoveable  property  is  ordinarilyinalienable  (especially  amongst  Jats,  residing  in	 theCentral	 Districts  of the Punjab) except for  necessity  orwith  the consent of male descendants or, in the case  of  asonless proprietor, of his male collaterals.  Provided	thatthe proprietor can alienate ancestral immoveable property atpleasure if there is at the date of such alienation  neithera  male	 descendant  nor a  male  collateral  in  existence.Following  this	 statement  of the law	the  learned  authorproceeds  to  explain the meaning of ancestral	property  inthese  words:  "Ancestral property means, as  regards  sons,property  inherited from a direct male lenial ancestor,	 andas  regards  collaterals property inherited  from  a  commonancestor ". Thus, so far as the customary law in the  Punjabcan  be	 gathered,  the statement  of  Rattigan	 is  clearlyagainst the appellant.Then  as  regards the first Fall Bench decision	 in  Lehna'scase  (1),  as	we have already pointed	 out,  there  is  nodiscussion  about  any	evidence of  custom  and  indeed  noevidence  about the alleged custom appears to have been	 ledbefore	the learned judges.  It is, therefore, difficult  toaccept	this  decision	as  embodying  the  learned  judges'considered view on the question of custom as such.  That  ineffect	is  the	 criticism  made  by  Chatterji	 J.  in	 hisdissenting  judgment and we are inclined to agree  with	 theviews  expressed  by  Chatterji J. When	 this  question	 wasraised	before the second Full Bench in Mst.   Attar  Kaur'scase  (2), Sir Shadi Lal C. J. rested his decision on  staredecisis	 mainly	 because  the  true  position  on  the	saidquestion  even under the Hindu law was then in doubt.	Thisconsideration  has now lost all its validity because, as  wehave  already indicated, the true position under  the  Hindulaw   about  the  character  of	 such  property	  has	beenauthoritatively	 explained by Sir Shadi Lal himself  in	 thePrivy Council decision in Muhammad Husain Khan's case (3  ).That is why we think not much useful guidance or help can bederived from this second Full Bench decision.  The last FullBench decision in Narotam Chand's case (4), is(1)  [1895] 30 P.R. 124.(2)  (1924) I.L.R. 5 Lah. 356.(3)  (1937) L.R. 64 I.A. 250.(4)  I.L.R. [1950] Pun. 1.1107based  substantially  on the view that, as a result  of	 thePrivy  Council decision in Muhammad Husain Khan's case	(1),the  two earlier Full Bench decisions must be taken to	havebeen overruled.	 Besides, the learned judges who constitutedthis  Full  Bench have also examined the merits of  the	 twoearlier judgments and have given reasons why they should notbe  takedas correctly deciding the true position  under	 thecustomary law.	In our opinion, the view taken by this	FullBench is on the whole correct and must be confirmed.It would now be necessary to consider the two Privy  Councildecisions  on which reliance has been placed by Mahajan	 J.,as he then was, in support of his conclusion that they	haveoverruled the earlier Full Bench decisions.  In Attar  Singhv. Thakar Singh(") the Privy Council was dealing with a suitby Hindu minors to set aside their father's deed of sale  ofthe lands in suit to the defendants on the ground that	theywere ancestral.	 It was held that, as the plaintiffs claimedthrough	 their father as son and heir of Dhanna	 Singh,	 theonus was on them to show that the lands were not acquired byDhanna Singh and, as that onus was not discharged, the landsmust  be deemed to be acquired properties of  Dhaiina  Singhand  that deed could not be set aside.	The parties to	thislitigation were governed by the customary law of the Punjab.In dealing with the character of the property in suit,	LordCollins	 who  delivered the judgment of the  Board  observedthat  "	 it is through father, as heir	of  the	 above-namedDhanna	Singh, that the plaintiffs claimed, and	 unless	 thelands  came to Dhanina Singh by descent from a	lineal	maleancestor in the male line, through whom the plaintiffs	alsoin  like  manner claimed, they are not deemed  ancestral  inHindu law." This statement indicates that, according to	 theBoard,	it is only where property descends from	 the  linealmale  ancestor	in  the male line that it  partakes  of	 thecharacter  of ancestral property.  It may be  conceded	thatthe  question  as  to  whether	property  inherited  from  amaternal grandfather is ancestral property or(1) (1937) L.R. 64 I.A. 250.(2) (1908) L.R. 35 I.A. 206.1411108not  did  not arise for the decision of the  Board  in	thiscase;  but  it is significant that the words  used  by	LordCollins in describing the true position under the Hindu	 lawin  regard  to	the  character	of  ancestral  property	 areemphatic  and unambiguous and this statement has  been	madewhile dealing with the case governed by the customary law ofthe  Punjab.   This  statement of the  law  was	 cited	withapproval and as pertinent by Sir Shadi Lal when he deliveredthe  judgment of the Board Muhammad Husain Khan's case	(1).The  learned judge has then added that " Attar Singh's	case(2),  however, related to the property which came from	malecollaterals and not from the maternal grandfather and it wasgoverned  by  the  custom  of the Punjab;  but	it  was	 notsuggested that the custom differed from the Hindu law on theissue before their Lordships ". The effect of these observa-tions would clearly appear to be that the test laid down  inAttar  Singh's case(2) would apply as much to the Hindu	 lawas  to	the customary law of the Punjab.   In  our  opinion,these  observations  made by Sir Shadi Lal are	entitled  torespect and have been rightly relied upon by Mahajan J.,  ashe  then was, in the last Full Bench case  (Narotam  Chand'scase  (3)), to which we have already referred.	We  may	 addthat  it  may not be technically correct to say	 that  theseobservations overrule the earlier Full Bench decision of thePunjab High Court on the point.	 We entertain no doubt that,if  the	 relevant  observations of  Lord  Collins  in  AttarSingh's	 case  (2) had been considered in  the	second	FullBench  decision,  they would have hesitated to rely  on	 thedoctrine  of  stare  decisis  in  support  of  their   finaldecision.There	is  one	 more  point  which  still  remains  to	  beconsidered.   Having  regard  to  the  principle  of  -staredecisis,  would it be right to hold that the view  expressedby the High Court of Punjab as early as 1895 was erroneous ?the principle of stare decisis is thus stated in  Halsbury'sLaws of England(4):(1)  (1937) L.R. 64 I.A. 250.(2) (1908) L.R. 35 I.A. 206.(3)  I.L.R. [1950] Pun. 1.(4) 2nd Edn., Vol.  XIX, P. 257, para. 557.1109"  Apart  from any question as to the Courts  being  of	 co-ordinate  jurisdiction, a decision which has  been  followedfor  a	long  period of time, and has  been  acted  upon  bypersons in the formation of contracts or in the	 dispositionof their property, or in the general conduct of affairs,  orin  legal  procedure or in other, ways,	 will  generally  befollowed  by  courts  of higher	 authority  than  the  courtestablishing the rule, even though the court before whom thematter	arises	afterwards  might not have  given  the	samedecision  had the question come before it  originally.	 Butthe supreme appellate Court will not shrink from  overrulinga  decision,  or  series of  decisions,	 which	establish  adoctrine plainly outside the statute and outside the  commonlaw,  when  no	title and no contract  will  be	 shaken,  nopersons	 can complain, and no general course of	 dealing  bealtered by the remedy of a mistake."The  same  doctrine  is	 thus  explained  in  Corpus   JurisSecundum(1)" Under the stare decisis rule, a principle of law which hasbecome settled by a series of decisions generally is bindingon the courts and should be followed in similar cases.	Thisrule is based on expediency and public policy, and, althoughgenerally it should be strictly adhered to by the courts, itis not universally applicable."The  Corpus Juris Secundum (2), however, adds a	 rider	that"previous  decisions  should not be followed to	 the  extentthat grievous wrong may result; and, accordingly, the courtsordinarily   will  not	adhere	to  a  rule   or   principleestablished  by previous decisions which they are  convincedis  erroneous.	 The  rule  of	stare  decisis	is  not	  soimperative   or	 inflexible  as	 to  preclude  a   departuretherefrom   in	any  case,  but	 its  application  must	  bedetermined in each case by the discretion of the court,	 andprevious decisions should not be followed to the extent thaterror may be perpetuated and grievous wrong may result."In the present case it is difficult to say that the doctrineof stare decisis really applies because the(1)  VOL  XXI P. 302, para. 187.  (2) VOI.   XXI.   P.	322,para. 193.110Correctness  of	 the  first Full  Bench	 decision  has	beenchallenged in the Punjab High Court from time to time and infact the said decision has been reversed in .950.   Besides,in  1908,  the Privy Council made emphatic  observations  inAttar  Singh's	case  (1) which	 considerably  impaired	 thevalidity  of the first Full Bench decision ; so it would  bedifficult  to say that the decision of the first Full  Benchhas been consistently followed by the community since  1895.It  cannot also be said that reversal of the  said  decisionshakes	any title or contract.	The only effect of the	saiddecision  was  to  confer upon the son	of  the	 person	 whoinherited  the	property from his maternal  grandfather	 theright to challenge his alienation of the said property.	  Itis doubtful if such a right can be regarded as the right  inproperty.   It	merely gives the son 'in  option  either  toaccept	the  transaction or to avoid it. It cannot  be	saidtoday  that any pending actions would be  disturbed  becausethis right has already been taken away by the Full Bench  in1950.	In  this  connection, it may  also  be	relevant  toconsider another aspect of this matter.	 If it is held	thatthe  property  inherited from maternal	grandfather  is	 notancestral property, then it would tend to make the titles ofthe alienees of -such property more secure.  Besides, we aresatisfied  that	 the  decision of the first  Full  Bench  iswholly	unsustainable  as  a decision on the  point  of	 therelevant  custom.  We are, therefore, inclined to  take	 theview  that the doctrine of -stare decisis is  in  applicableand  should present no obstacle in holding that the  earliercases  of the Full Bench of the Punjab High Court  were	 notcorrectly decided.In the result we confirm the finding of the High Court	thatthe property in suit is not ancestral property and that	 theappellant  has	no  right to bring the	present	 suit.	 Theappeal	accordingly  fails  and	 must  be  dismissed.	 Theappellants  will pay the respondent's costs in	this  Court;and parties will bear their own costs in the courts below.				    Appeal dismissed.(1)  (1908) L.R. 35 I.A. 2o6.1111