PETITIONER:BISHAN SINGH & OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:KHAZAN SINGH & ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:20/05/1958BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, S.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  838		  1959 SCR  878ACT:Pre-emption, nature of the right-Pre-emptor filing suit	 andobtaining decree-Second pre-emptor of equal degreefilingsuit  for  Pre-emption First pre-emptor	 deositing  purchasemoneand	 obtainIng  Possession-If suit	of     second  Pre-emptor cansucced-Lis  penden-Scope--Punjab   Pre-emptorAct (Pun.  1 Of 1913),ss. 17, 28.HEADNOTE:Upon the sale of certain village land the appellants filed asuit  for  pre-emption, and a compromise decree	 was  passedallowing  pre-emption provided the appellants deposited	 thepurchase  amountbvacertaindate.	 The appellants Posited	 theamount	 and  got  Possession  of  the	land.	Before	 theappellants deposited879the amount, the respondents who were pre-emptors of an equaldegree, filed a suit to enforce their right of	pre-emption.The  appellants	 contended that the land  could	 be  dividedbetween two equal pre-emptors only when both the suits	werepending	 before the court at the time of the passing of	 thedecree,	 and that the appellants having obtained the  decreeand paid the amount got substituted in place of the  vendeesand  the  respondents could succeed only by  establishing  asuperior  right of pre-emption.	 The  respondents  counteredthat  they had a statutory right under s. 17 Of	 the  PunjabPre-emption  Act to share the land with the  appellants	 andthat the appellants, having been substituted in place of thevendees	 Pendente  lite,  were hit by the  doctrine  of	 lispendens and could not claim a higher right than the vendees:Held,  that the respondents' suit could not succeed as	they(lid  not  have	 a superior right of  pre-emption  over	 theappellants  who	 had  become substituted  in  place  of	 thevendees	 upon  payment	of the purchase	 money	under  theirdecree.A  pre-emptor has two rights: (i) inherent or primary  rightto the offer of a thing about to be sold and (2) a secondaryor  remedial right to follow the thing sold.  The  secondaryright  is  simply a right of substitution in  place  of	 theoriginal vendee.Dhani  Nath  v. Budhu, 136 P. R. 1894 at P. 511	 and  GobindDayal v. Inayatullah, (1885) I.L.R. 7 All. 775, followed.In  a suit for pre-emption the plaintiff must show that	 hisright is superior to that of the vendee and that it subsistsat  the time he exercises his right.  This right is lost  ifbefore	he  exercises  it another person with  an  equal  orsuperior right has been substituted in place of the originalvendee.	 The Punjab Preemption Act defines the right of pre-emption and provides a procedure for enforcing it.  It	doesnot enlarge the content of this right nor does it  introduceany change in the incidents of the right.  Section 28 Of theAct  does  not preclude the Court from giving a	 decree	 forpre-emption  in	 a  case  where the  suits  are	 not  joinedtogether and one of the suits has been decreed separately.The  doctrine  of  lis pendens applies only  to	 a  transferPendente  lite, but it cannot affect a	pre-existing  right.If  the sale is a transfer in recognition of  a	 preexistingand  subsisting	 right,	 it would not  be  affected  by	 thedoctrine,  as  the  transfer does not  create  a  new  rightPendente   lite	  but  if  the	preexisting   right   becameunenforceable  by  reason of limitation	 or  otherwise,	 thetransfer,  though ostensibly made in recognition of  such  aright, in fact creates only a new right pendente lite.	 Theappellants' right of pre-emption was subsisting and was	 notbarred	by limitation at the time of the transfer  in  theirfavour	as they had filed a suit and had obtained  a  decreeand the coercive112880process was still in operation.	 Consequently the appellantswere  not  hit	by the doctrine of  lis	 pentlens  and	theyacquired  an indefeasible right to the land when  they	tookpossession  of	it after depositing the	 purchase  money  incourt.Mool  Chand  v. Ganga jal, (1930) I.L.R. 11  Lah.  258,	 Mt.Sant  Kaor v. Teja Singh, I.L.R. [1946] Lah.  467,  MohammadSadhiq v. Ghasi Ram, A.I.R. 1946 Lah. 322 and Wazir Ali Khanv. Zahir Ahmad Khan, A.I.R. 1949 East Punj. 193, approved.Kundan Lal v. Amar Singh, A.I.R. 1927 All. 664, disapproved.The  right  of	pre-emption  is	 effectively  exercised	  orenforced  only when the pre-emptor has been substituted	 forthe vendee.  A conditional decree whereunder the  pre-emptorgets possession only if he pays a specified amount within  aprescribed time and which also provides for the dismissal ofthe  suit  in case the condition is  not  fulfilled,  cannotbring  about the substitution of the decree holder  for	 thevendee before the condition is fulfilled.  Such substitutiontakes  effect  only  when  the	decree	holder	fulfils	 thecondition and takes possession of the land.Deonandan  prashad Singh v. Ramdhari Choudhyi, (1916) L.  R.44 I. A. 80, followed.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 255 of 1954.Appeal	by Special Leave from the judgment and decree  datedApril  29, 1953, of the former Pepsu High Court in R. S.  A.Nos.  57  and 130 of 1952, arising out of the  judgment	 anddecree	dated  March 8, 1952, of the Court of  Addl.   Dist.Judge, Faridkot, in Civil Appeal No. 10 of 1952, against thejudgment and decree dated December 4, 1951, of the Court  of`ubJudge 11 Class, Faridkot, in File No. 13 of 1951.Jagan Nath Kaushal and K. L. Mehta, for the appellant.Kapur	Chand	Puri  and  Tarachand  Brijmohan	  Lal,	 forrespondents Nos. 1 to 3.1958.  May 20.	The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySUBBA  RAO  J.-This - appeal by Special	 Leave	against	 thejudgment  and decree of the High Court of Patiala  and	EastPunjab	 States	  Union	 raises	 an   interesting   questionpertaining to the Law of Preemption.881The  material  facts are not in dispute and may	 be  brieflystated:	 The dispute relates to a land measuring 179  kanalsand  2 marlas, situate in village Wanderjatana.	  On  August26, 1949, defendants 3 to 7 sold the said land to defendantsI  and 2 for a consideration of Rs. 37,611.  On	 August	 26,1950, defendants 8 to 11 instituted a suit, Suit No. 231  of1950  (Exhibit	P.  26/1) in the Court	of  the	 SubordinateJudge, 11 Class, Faridkot, to pre-empt the said sale on	 theground,	 among others, that they bad a right of	 preemption.On January 6, 1951, the vendees, i. e., defendants I and  2,and  the  plaintiffs  therein, i. e.,  defendants  8  to  11(appellants   in  the  present	appeal),  entered   into   acompromise.  Under the terms of the compromise, the  vendeesadmitted that they had received Rs. 1,700 from defendants  8to II and that defendants 8 to 1 1 agreed to pay the balanceof  the consideration, amounting to Rs. 35,911 on  the	27thApril, 1951,.  It was further agreed that on the payment  ofthe  said amount, they should get possession through  Court.As  the	 amount	 agreed	 to be paid was	 in  excess  of	 thepecuniary  jurisdiction	 of  the Court	of  the	 SubordinateJudge,	they filed the compromise deed in the Court  of	 theDistrict Judge and on the basis of the said compromise,	 theDistrict Judge made a decree dated January 23, 1951.  It wasprovided  in  the decree that in case defendants 8  to	I  Ifailed to pay the balance to the vendees on April 27,  1951,the suit should stand dismissed and that if the said balancewas paid on that date, the vendees should deliver possessionof  the	 land  in  dispute to  them.   Defendants  8  to  11deposited the balance of Rs. 35,911 on April 23, 1.951,	 andgot possession of the land on May 17, 1951.Before the said defendants (8 to 11) deposited the amount inCourt  under  the  terms  of  the  compromise  decree,	 theresondents herein, claiming to be owners of land in the samepatti,	filed  Suit  No.  13 of 1951 in	 the  Court  of	 theSubordinate  Judge,  11 Class, Faridkot,  to  enforce  theirright  of  pre-emption.	 To that suit the  original  vendorswere  impleaded	 as  defendants	 3  to	7,  the	 vendees  asdefendants  I  and 2 and the plaintiffs in Suit No.  231  of1950 as defendants 8 to 11.882Defendants  8 to 11 contested the suit, inter alia,  on	 thegrounds	 that  the  plaintiffs had no  right  of  preemptionsuperior  to  that of theirs, that the suit  was  barred  bylimitation and that the whole of the sale consideration	 hadbeen fixed in good faith and paid.The learned Subordinate Judge found all the issues in favourof  defendants 8 to 11 and dismissed the suit.	On the	mainissue  he  found that the said defendants,  by	obtaining  adecree for pre-emption before the rival claimants had  filedtheir  suit,  had become vendees through Court	and  so	 theplaintiffs  could  not succeed unless they  had	 a  superiorright.The  plaintiffs	 preferred  an	appeal	to.  the   AdditionlDistrict  Judge,  Faridkot, against the	 said  decree.	 TheDistrict Judge held that the plaintiffs and defendants 8  to11  had	 equal rights of pre-emption and  were	entitled  toshare the sale in the proportion of 3/7 and 4/7 respectivelyon payment of the proportionate amount of the consideration.On the main question, he took the view that defendants 8  to11  did	 not exercise their right of  pre-emption  when	 thepresent suit was instituted for the reason that by the	dateof  the	 filing	 of  the suit they  had	 not  deposited	 thepurchase  money	 in Court.  Both the  parties  filed  SecondAppeals	 against the decision of the District Judge  in	 theHigh  Court of Patiala questioning that part of	 the  decreewhich went against them.  The High Court upheld that part ofthe  decree of the learned District Judge holding  that	 theplaintiffs were entitled to a share in the suit property butremanded the suit to the District Judge to give his findingson the following two questions: (1) What was the amount paidby  defendants 8 to 11 to the original vendees	and  whetherthey paid it in good faith; (2) Whether the case would	comeunder  s.  17C,	 cl.  (e)  of  the  Punjab  Pre-emption	 Act(hereinafter  to be referred to as the -Act).  As  the	HighCourt  refused	to certify that the case was a fit  one	 forappeal	to the Supreme Court, defendants 8 to  11  preferredthe above appeal by obtaining special leave of this Court.The learned Counsel for the appellants raises the  followingtwo contentions before us: (1) Section 28 of883the Pre-emption Act indicates that a property can be dividedbetween	 equal	pre-emptors in terms of s. 17  of  the	Pre-emption Act only when both the suits are pending before	 theCourt  at  the time of the passing of the decree ;  (2)	 theappellants exercised their right of pre-emption by obtaininga  decree  or  at any rate when	 they  deposited  the  moneypayable	  under	 the  decree  and  thereby  got	  themselvessubstituted in place of the original vendees and thereafter,the  plaintiff's can succeed only by proving their  superiorright  to  them.  The learned Counsel  for  the	 respondentscountered  the	aforesaid  argument  by	 stating  that	 theplaintiffs,  being pre-emptors of equal degree, have  got  astatutory right under s. 17 of the Pre-emption Act to  sharethe  land  with the appellants, and the	 appellants,  havingbeen  substituted in place of the original vendees  pendentelite, are hit by the doctrine of lis _pendens and therefore,they cannot claim higher rights than those possessed by	 theoriginal vendees at the time of the filing of the suit.Before	attempting  to give a satisfactory answered  to	 thequestion  raised,  it would be convenient at the  outset  tonotice	and  define the material incidents of the  right  ofpre-emption.   A concise but lucid statement of the  law  isgiven by Plowden J. in Dhani Nath v. Budhu (1) thus:A  preferential right to acquire land, belonging to  anotherperson	upon the occasion of a transfer by the latter,	doesnot appear to me to be either a right to or a right in	thatland.	It  is,jus ad rem aliens acquirendum and not  a	 jus?'In  re  aliena......... A right to the offer	of  a  thingabout to be sold is not identical with a right to the  thingitself,	 and  that is the primary right of  the	 pre-emptor.The  secondary right is to follow the thing sold, when	soldwithout	 the proper offer to the pre-emptor, and to  acquireit,  if	 he  thinks  fit, in spite  of	the  sale,  made  indisregard of his preferential right."The  aforesaid passage indicates that a pre-emptor  has	 tworights: (1) inherent or primary right, i.e., a right(1)136 P. R. 1894 at p. 5ii.884to  the offer of a thing about to be sold and (2)  secondaryor remedial right to follow the thing sold.Mahmood	 J.  in	 his classic judgment  in  Gobind  Dayal  v.Inayatullah  (1) explained the scope of the secondary  rightin the following terms:"  It  (right  of pre-emption) is simply  a  right  of	sub-stitution,  entitling  the pre-emptor, by means of  a  legalincident  to which sale itself was subject, to stand in	 theshoes  of  the	vendee	in respect of  all  the	 rights	 andobligations arising from the sale, under which lie,  derivedhis  title.   It  is, in effect, as if in a  sale  deed	 thevendee's name were rubbed out and pre-emptor's name insertedin its place".The  doctrine adumbrated by the learned Judge,	namely,	 thesecondary  right  of  pre-emption  is  simply  a  right	  ofsubstitution  in  place	 of the original  vendee,  has	beenaccepted and followed by subsequent decisions.The general law of pre-emption does not recognize any  rightto  claim a share in the property sold when there are  rivalclaimants.   It is well-established that the right  of	pre-emption is a right to acquire the whole of the property soldin preference to other persons (See Mool Chand v. Ganga	 Jal(2)).The plaintiff is bound to show not only that his right is asgood  as that of the vendee but that it is superior to	thatof  the	 vendee.  Decided cases have  recognized  that	thissuperior  right	 must  subsist at the  time  the  pre-emptorexercises  his right and that that right is lost if by	thattime  another person with equal or superior right  has	beensubstituted  in place of the original vendee.	Courts	havenot  looked upon this right with great	favour,	 presumably,for  the reason that it operates as a clog on the  right  ofthe  owner  to alienate his property.  The  vendor  and	 thevendeeire,  therefore,	permitted to avoid  accrual  of	 theright  of pre-emption by all lawful means.  The	 vendee	 maydefeat	the  right by selling the property to a	 rival	pre-emptor with preferential or equal right.  To summarize:	 (1)The  right of pre-emption is not a right to the	 thing	soldbut a right to the offer of a thing about to be sold.(i) (1885) I.L. R. 7 All. 775, 809.(2) (1930) I.L.R. 11 Lah. 258, 273.885This right is called the primary or inherent right. (2)	 Thepre-emptor  has	 a secondary right or a	 remedial  right  tofollow the thing sold. (3) It is a right of substitution butnot  of re-purchase, i. e., the pre-emptor takes the  entirebargain and steps into the shoes of the original vendee. (4)It is a right to acquire the whole of the property sold	 andnot  a share of the property sold. (5) Preference being	 theessence	 of  the right, the plaintiff must have	 a  superiorright to that of the vendee or the person substituted in hisplace.	(6)  The right being a very weak right,	 it  can  bedefeated  by  all  legitimate methods, such  as	 the  vendeeallowing  the  claimant of a superior or equal	right  beingsubstituted in his place.The  next  question  is whether this right  is	modified  orotherwise enlarged by the' provisions of the Act.   Relevantprovisions of the Act, material to the present purpose, readthus:Section	 4: " The right of pre-emption shall mean the  rightof  a  person  to  acquire  agricultural  land	or   villageimmovable property or urban immovable property in preferenceto other persons, and it arises in respect of such land onlyin the case of sales and in respect of such property only inthe case of sales or of foreclosures of the right to  redeemsuch property".Section	 13: " Whenever according to the provisions of	thisAct,  a right of pre-emption vests in any class or group  ofpersons	 the  right may be exercised by all the	 members  ofsuch class or group joint, and, if not exercised by them alljointly,  by  any two or more of them jointly, and,  if	 notexercised  by  any  two or more of  them  jointly,  by	themseverally".Section	 17:  " Where several pre-emptors are found  by	 theCourt to be equally entitled to the right of preemption, thesaid right shall be exercised,-(a)if  they  claim  as	co-shares,  in	proportion   amongthemselves  to the shares they already hold in the  land  orproperty ;(b)if  they claim as heirs, whether co-sharers or not,	inproportion  among themselves to the shares in which but	 forsuch  sale, they would inherit the land or property  in	 theevent of the vendor's decease without other heirs;886(c)if  they  claim as owners of the estate  or	recognisedsubdivision  thereof, in proportion among themselves to	 theshares	which they would take if the land or  property	werecommon	land in the estate or the subdivision, as  the	casemay be;(d)if they claim as occupancy tenants, in proportion amongthemselves  to	the  areas  respectively  held	by  them  inoccupancy right;(e)in  any  other  case,  by  such  pre-emptors	 in  equalshares."Section	 19:  "	 When  any  person  proposes  to  sell	 anyagricultural  land  or village immovable property  or  urbanimmovable  property or to foreclose the right to redeem	 anyvillage	 immovable property or urban immovable property,  inrespect of which any persons have a right of preemption, liemay give notice to all such persons of the price at which heis  willing to sell such land or property or of	 the  amountdue in respect of the mortgage, as the case may be.Such  notice  shall be given through any  Court	 within	 thelocal limits of whose jurisdiction such land or property  orany   part   thereof  is  situate,  and	 shall	 be   deemedsufficiently given if it be stuck up on the chaupal or otherpublic place of the village, town or place in which the landor property is situate."Section	 20: " The right of pre-emption of any person  shallbe extinguished unless such person shall, within the  periodof  three  months from the date on which the  notice  tindersection	 19 is duly given or within such further period	 notexceeding  one year from such date as the court	 may  allow,present	 to the Court a notice for service on the vendor  ormortgagee   of	his  intention	to  enforce  his  right	  of-pre-emption.  Such notice shall state whether the preemptoraccepts	 the  price  or amount due on  the  footing  of	 themortgage  as  correct  or not, and if not, what	 sum  he  iswilling to pay."" When the Court is satisfied that tile said notice has beenduly served on the vendor or mortgagee the proceedings shallbe filed."Section	 28: " When more suits than one arising out  of	 thesame sale or foreclosure are pending the plaintiff887in  each  suit shall be joined as defendant in each  of	 theother  suits, and in deciding the suits the court  shall  ineach  -decree  state  the order in which  each	claimant  isentitled to exercise his right".The  Act  defines  the right and provides  a  procedure	 forenforcing  that right.	It does not enlarge the	 content  ofthat right or introduce any change in the incidents of	thatright.	 Section 4 embodies the preexisting law by  definingthe  right  as	a  right of a  person  to  acquire  land  inpreference  to	other  persons	in  respect  of	 -,ales	  ofagricultural  lands.  Section 13 cannot be read, as  we	 areasked  to  do,	as a statutory recognition  of	a  right  ofpreemptors  of equal degree to exercise their rights  piece-meal  confined	to  their shares in the	 land.	 Section  13confers	 on  a	group  of persons,  in	whom  the  right  ofpreemption  vests, to exercise that right either jointly  orseverally,  that is to say, either the group of	 persons  orone  of them may enforce the right in respect of the  entiresale.	Section 17 regulates the distribution  of  preemptedland  when  the	 Court finds that  several  pre-emptors	 areequally	 entitled  to the right of  pre-emption.   But	thisSection	 applies  only	where (1) the right  is	 yet  to  beexercised and (2) the pre-emptors are found by the Court  tobe equally entitled to exercise the right.  The section doesnot confer the right on or against a person, who has alreadyexercised  the	right and ceased to be a  preemptor  by	 hisbeing  legitimately  substituted in place  of  the  originalvendee. (See Mool Chand v. ganga Jal (1) at p. 274 and LokhaSingh  v. Sermukh Singh (2)).  Sections 19 and 20  prescribethe  procedure for the exercise of the primary right,  whiles.  28 confers a power on the Court to join together two  ormore  suits arising out of the same sale, so  that  suitabledirections may be given in the decree in regard to the orderin  which each claimant is entitled to exercise	 the  right.This  section  is enacted presumably to	 avoid	conflict  ofdecisions  and finally determine the rights of	the  variousclaimants.   The  aforesaid  provisions	 do  not  materiallyaffect the characteristics of the right of pre-(1) (1930) I.L.R. 11 Lah. 258.113(2) A.I.R. 1952 Punj. 206, 207.888emption	  as  existed  before  the  Act.   They	 provide   aconvenient and effective procedure for disposing of togetherdifferent  suits,  arising out of the same  transaction,  toavoid  conflict of decisions, to fix the order	of  priorityfor  the exercise of their rights and also to  regulate	 thedistribution  of  the  preempted  land	between	 rival	pre-emptors.The  provisions	 do not in any way enable the  preemptor  toexercise  his right without establishing his superior  rightover the vendee or the person substituted in his place or toprevent	 the vendor or the vendee, by legitimate  means,  todefeat	his  right by getting substituted in  place  of	 thevendee	a  pre-emptor with a superior right to or  an  equalright with that of the plaintiff.Nor  can we accept the argument of the learned	counsel	 forthe appellants that s. 28 precludes the Court from giving  adecree	for pre-emption in a case where the two	 suits	werenot  joined  together  but  one of  the	 suits	was  decreedseparately.   Section 28 enacts a convenient procedure,	 butit  cannot affect the substantative rights of  the  parties.We  do	not see that, if the plaintiffs were entitled  to  aright  of  pre-emption,	 they  would have  lost	 it  by	 theappellants   obtaining	a  decree  before   the	  plaintiffsinstituted  the	 suit,	unless it be held  that	 the  decreeitself	had the effect of substituting them in place of	 theoriginal  vendees.   We	 cannot, therefore,  hold  that	 theplaintiffs'  suit is in any way barred under the  provisionsof the Act.This  leads  us to the main question in this  case,  namely,whether the appellants having obtained a consent decree	 oilJanuary	 23,  1951, in their suit against  the	vendees	 andhaving paid the amount due under the decree and having takendelivery  of  the property and thus  having  got  themselvessubstituted   in   place  of  the  original   vendees,	 canlegitimately  defeat the rights of the plaintiffs,  who,  byreason	of  the	 aforesaid substitution, were  only  in	 theposition  of  pre-emptors  of  equal  degree  vis-a-vis	 theappellants and therefore ceased to have any superior rights.The  learned Counsel for the respondents contends  that	 theappellants are hit by the doctrine of lis pendens and889therefore  the	act of substitution, which was	effected  onApril 23, 1951, could not be in derogation of their right ofpre-emption, which they have exercised by filing their	suiton  February 15, 1951.	It is now settled law in the  Punjabthat the rule of lis pendens is as much applicable to a suitto  enforce the right of pre-emption as to any	other  suit.The  principle on which the doctrine rests is  explained  inthe  leading case of Bellami v. Sabine (1), where  the	LordChancellor  said  that pendente lite neither  party  to	 thelitigation  can alienate............ the property so  as  toaffect his opponent.  In other words, the law does not allowlitigant parties, pending the litigation, to transfer  theirrights	to the property in dispute so as to  prejudice	the-other party.As  a  corollary  to this rule it is  laid  down  that	thisprinciple  will	 not affect the right  existing	 before	 thesuit.	The rule, with its limitations, was considered by  aFull  Bench of the Lahore High Court in Mool Chand v.  GangaJal (2).  In that case, during the pendency of a pre-emptionsuit,  the  vendee sold the property which was	the  subjectmatter	of the litigation to a person possessing a right  ofpre-emption  equal to that of the pre-emptor in	 recognitionof  that person's right of pre-emption.	 This  re-sale	tookplace  before  the expiry of the period	 of  limitation	 forinstituting a pre-emption suit with respect to the  originalsale.  The Full Bench held that the doctrine of lis  pendensapplied to preemption suits; but in that case, the resale inquestion did not conflict with the doctrine of lis  pendens.Bhide J. gave the reason for the said conclusion at page 272thus:"  All	that the vendee does in such a case is to  take	 thebargain	 in  the assertion of his  pre-existing	 pre-emptiveright,	and  hence  the sale does  not	offend	against	 thedoctrine of lis pendens ".Another	 Full  Bench of the Lahore High Court  accepted	 andfollowed  the aforesaid doctrine in Mt.	 Sant Kaur  v.	TejaSingh (3).  In that case, pending the suit for	pre-emption,the vendee sold the land purchased(i)  (1857) 1 De G. & J. 566; 44 E. R. 842.(2) (1930) I.L.R. 11 Lah. 258, 273.  (3) I.L.R. [1946]	Lah.467,890by  him	 to a person in recognition of a superior  right  ofpre-emption. Thereafter, the second purchaser was  broughtonrecord  and was added as a defendant to the  suit.   Atthe  time  of the purchase by the person having	 a  superiorright of pre-emption, his right to enforce it was barred  bylimitation.   The  ]High Court held that  that	circumstancemade  a	 difference in the application of the  rule  of	 lispendens.   The	distinction between the	 two  categories  ofcases was brought out in bold relief at page 145 thus:"  Where  the  subsequent  vendee has  still  the  means  ofcoercing, by means of legal action, the original vendee intosurrendering  the  bargain in his favour, a surrender  as  aresult of a private treaty, and out of Court, in recognitionof  the	 right to compel such surrender by means of  a	suitcannot properly be regarded as a voluntary transfer so as toattract	 the  application of the rule of lis  pendens.	 Thecorrect	 way to look at the matter, in a case of this  kind,is to regard the subsequent transferee as having simply beensubstituted for the vendee in the original bargain of  sale.He can defend the suit on all the pleas which he could	havetaken had the sale been initially in hisown favour.  ""  However,  where the subsequent transferee  has  lost	 themeans of making use of the coercive machinery of the law  tocompel the vendee to surrender the original bargain to	him,a re-transfer of the property in the former's favour  cannotbe looked upon as anything more than a voluntary transfer inthe former's favour of such title as he had himself acquiredunder  the original sale.  Such transfer has not the  effectof  substituting the subsequent transferee in place  of	 thevendee in the original bargain.	 Such a transferee takes theproperty  only subject to the result of the suit.   Even  iflie  is impleaded as a defendant in such suit, he cannot  beregarded as anything more than a  representative-in-interestof  the original vendee, having no right to defend the	suitexcept on the pleas that were open to such vendee himself ".This case, therefore, expressly introduces a new element  inthe applicability of the doctrine of lis pendens891to a suit to enforce the pre-emptive right.  If the right ofthe pre-emptor of a superior or equal degree was  subsistingand  enforceable  by  coercive	process	 or  otherwise,	 hispurchase would be considered to be in exercise of that	pre-existing right and therefore not hit by the doctrine of	 lispendens.   On the other hand, if he purchased the land	fromthe  original  vendee after his superior or equal  right  toenforce the right of preemption was barred by Limitation, hewould  only  be	 in the	 position  of  a  representative-in-interest of the vendee, or to put it in other words, if	 hisright is barred by limitation, it would be treated as a non-existing right.	 Much to the same effect was the decision ofanother	 Full  Bench of the Lahore High	 Court	in  MohammadSadiq  v. Ghasi Ram (1).  There, before the  institution  ofthe suit for pre-emption, an agreement to sell the  propertyhad  been  executed  by	 the vendee  in	 favour	 of  anotherprospective pre-emptor with an equal degree of right of pre-emption;  subsequent  to  the institution of  the  suit,  inpursuance  of the agreement, a sale deed had  been  executedand  registered in the latter's favour, after the expiry  ofthe  limitation	 for a suit to enforce his  own	 pre-emptiveright.	The Full Bench held that the doctrine of lis pendensapplied to the case.  The principle underlying this decisionis  the	 same as that in Mt.  Sant Kaur v. Te a	 Singh	(2),where the barred right was treated as a non-existent  right.The same view was restated by another Full Bench of the EastPunjab High Court in Wazir Ali Khan v. Zahir Ahmad Khan (3).At p. 195, the learned Judges observed:" It is settled law that unless a transfer pendente lite canbe held to be a transfer in recognition of a subsisting pre-emptive	 right,	 the  rule of lis pendens  applies  and	 thetransferee  takes the property subject to the result of	 thesuit during the pendency where of it took place".The  Allahabad	High Court has applied the doctrine  of	 lispendens	 to a suit for pre-emption ignoring  the  limitationimplicit in the doctrine that it cannot affect(i) A.I.R. 1946 Lah. 322.   (2) I.L.R. [1946] Lah. 467,(3) A.I.R. [1949 East Punj. [93.892a  pre-existing right. (See Kundan Lal v. Amar	Singh  (1)).We  accept the view expressed by the Lahore High  Court	 andEast  Punjab  High  Court  in  preference  to  that  of	 theAllahabad High Court.In view of the aforesaid four Full Bench decisions three  ofthe Lahore High Court and the fourth of the East Punjab HighCourt  a further consideration of the case  is	unnecessary.The settled law in the Punjab may be summarized thus:The  doctrine  of  lis pendens applies only  to	 a  transferpendente  lite, but it cannot affect a	pre-existing  right.If  the sale is a transfer in recognition of a	pre-existingand  subsisting	 right,	 it would not  be  affected  by	 thedoctrine,  as  the said transfer did not  create  now  rightpendente  lite	;  but	if  the	 pre-existing  right  becameunenforceable  by  reason  of  the  fact  of  limitation  orotherwise,   the   transfer,  though  ostensibly   made	  inrecognition of such a right, in fact created only anew right pendente lite.Even so, it is contended that the right of the appellants toenforce their right of pre-emption was barred by  limitationat  the time of the transfer in their favour  and  thereforethe  transfer would be hit by the doctrine of  lis  pendens.This  argument ignores the admitted facts of the case.	 Thematerial facts may be recapitulated: Defendants 3 to 7	soldthe  land  in dispute to defendants 1 and 2  on	 August	 26,1949, and the sale deed was registered on February 15, 1950.The  appellants instituted their suit to pre-empt  the	saidsale on August 26, 1950, and obtained a compromise decree onJanuary 23, 195 1. They deposited the balance of the  amountpayable	 on April 23, 1951, and took possession of the	landon May 17, 1951.  It would be seen from the aforesaid  factsthat  the  appellants'	right  of  pre-emption	was  clearlysubsisting  at	the time when the appellants  deposited	 theamount	and took possession of the land, for they  not	onlyfiled  the suit but obtained a decree therein  and  compliedwith  the  terms of the decree within  the  time  prescribedthereunder.  The coercive process was still in operation. ifso, it follows that the appellants are not hit by the(i)A.I.R. 1927 All. 664.VI893doctrine  of lis pendens and they acquired  an	indefeasibleright  to  the	suit  land, at	any  rate,  when  they	tookpossession of the land pursuant to the terms of the  decree,after  depositing in Court the balance of the amount due  tothe vendors.We shall briefly touch upon another argument of the  learnedCounsel	 for  the appellants, namely,  that  the  compromisedecree	obtained  by them, whereunder their  right  of	pre-emption	 was recognized, clothed them with the title to	 theproperty so as to deprive the plaintiffs of the equal  rightof pre-emption.	 The right of pre-emption can be effectivelyexercised or enforced only when the pre-emptor has been sub-stituted  by the vendee in the original bargain of sale.   Aconditional   decree,  such  as	 that  with  which  we	 areconcerned,  whereunder a pre-emptor gets possession only  ifhe  pays  a specified amount within a  prescribed  time	 andwhich  also provides for the dismissal of the suit  in	casethe  condition is not complied with, cannot obviously  bringabout  the substitution of the decreeholder in place of	 thevendee	before	the  condition is  complied  with.   Such  asubstitution  takes  effect  only  when	 the   decree-holdercomplies  with	the condition and takes	 possession  of	 theland.The decision of the Judicial Committee in Deonandan  PrashadSingh v. Ramdhari Chowdhri (1) throws considerable light  onthe question whether in similar circumstances the pre-emptorcan  be deemed to have been substituted in the place of	 theoriginal  vendee.  There the Subordinate Judge made  a	pre-emption	  decree  under	 which	the  pre-emptors   were	  inpossession  from 1900 to 1904, when the decree was  reversedby  the	 High  Court and  the  original	 purchaser  regainedpossession  and	 in 1908, the Privy  Council,  upon  furtherappeal, declared the pre-emptors' right to purchase, but  ata  higher price than decreed by the Subordinate	 Judge.	  In1909   the  pre-eimptors  paid	the  additional	 price	 andthereupon  again  obtained possession.	The  question  arosewhether	 the pre-emptors were not entitled to mesne  profitsfor the period between 1904 to 1909, i.e., during the periodthe judg-(i)(1916) L. R. 44 1. A. 80.894ment  of the first appellate Court was in force.  The  PrivyCouncil held that during that period the preemptors were notentitled  to mesne profits.  The reason for that  conclusionwas stated at page 84 thus:" It therefore follows that where a suit is brought it is onpayment of the purchase-money on the specified date that theplaintiff obtains possession of the property, and until thattime  the  original  purchaser	retains	 possession  and  isentitled to the rents and profits.  This was so held in	 thecase of Deokinandan v. Sri Ram (1) and there Mahmud J. whoseauthority is well recognized by all, stated that it was onlywhen  the  terms of the decree were fulfilled  and  enforcedthat  the  persons having the right  of	 pre-emption  becomeowners	of  the property, that such ownership did  not	vestfrom the date of sale, notwithstanding success in the  suit,and  that the actual substitution of the owner of  the	pre-empted property dates with possession under the decree ".This  judgment	is, therefore, a, clear	 authority  for	 theposition that the pre-emptor is not substituted in the placeof  the	 original vendee till conditions laid  down  in	 thedecree are fulfilled.  We cannot, therefore, agree with	 thelearned Counsel that the compromise decree itself  perfectedhis clients' right in derogation to that of the	 plaintiffs.But  as we have held that the appellants complied  with	 theconditions  laid  down in the compromise decree,  they	weresubstituted  in the place of the vendee before	the  presentsuit  was  disposed of.	 In the aforesaid  view,  the  otherquestions  raised  by  the  appellants	do  not	 arise	 forconsideration.	In the result, the appeal is allowed and thesuit is dismissed with cost,-, throughout.Appeal allowed.(1) (1889) I. L. R. 12 All. 234.895