PETITIONER:RAGHUBANSH LAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF U. P.DATE OF JUDGMENT:20/02/1957BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.JAGANNADHADAS, B.IMAM, SYED JAFFERMENON, P. GOVINDACITATION: 1957 AIR  486		  1957 SCR  696ACT:Criminal Trial-Knowingly framing record in incorrect  manner-Intention  to	cause loss or injury-Indian Penal  Code,  s.218.HEADNOTE:The  appellant, being a Patwari, was found to have  made  anincorrect en try regarding possession over certain  disputedplots  in the khasra for the year 1358 F, and was  convictedunder s. 218 of the Indian Penal Code.Held, that in order to sustain a conviction under s. 218  ofthe Indian Penal Code it is not sufficient that the entry isincorrect, it. is essential that the entry should have	beenmade  with  intent to cause, or knowing it to be  likely  tocause,	loss or injury to some person.	The incorrect  entryin  regard to the year I358 F. could not cause any  loss  tothe  complainant as alleged in the charge, because when	 theentry  was alleged to be made the case under s. I45  Of	 theCriminal  Procedure  Code had already been  decided  and  itcould  not confer hereditary tenancy on the person  recordedto be in occupation in the year I358 F. as s. 16 of the U.P.Zamindari  Abolition and Land Reforms Act benefited  personsrecorded to be in possession in the year I356 F. and not theyear I358 F.,JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION	 Criminal bAppeal No. 94  of1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedSeptember  7, 1954, of the Allahabad High Court in  CriminalAppeal No. 647 of 1952 arising out of the judgment and orderdated  June  7,	 1952, of the Court  of	 Sessions  Judge  atGhazipur in S. T. No. 11 of 1952.H.   J. Umrigar, for the appellant.G.   C. Mathur and C. P. Lal, for the respondent.1957.  February 20.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyKAPUR  J.-This is an appeal by Special leave under Art.	 136of  the	 Constitution of India against the Judgment  of	 theAllahabad  High	 Court	confirming  the	 conviction  of	 theAppellant Raghubansh Lal under s.  218	of the Indian  PenalCode.697The  offence  for which the appellant was  tried  wag,	thatbeing  a  Patwari of village Arazi Mafi Pandai	and  thus  apublic	servant, he "framed the khasra of 1358 F in  respectof  plots Nos. 170 and 74/1 of village Arazi  Mafi  Pandai",which  he  knew	 "to be incorrect with intent  to  cause  orknowing	 to be likely that he would thereby cause  an  undueloss to Smt.  Mahura Kunwar.  "The  facts  out of which this appeal has arisen	 are  these.Two  brothers,	Mahadeo and Sahdeo, who were  members  of  ajoint  Hindu  family owned certain plots of  land.   Mahadeodied leaving a widow Basera Kunwar, a son Damodar Pande	 anda daughter Mahura Kuer.	 Sahdeo died leaving a widow  SundraKuer.	On the death of Damodar Pande, one Ram	Sewak  Pandebrought a suit against Smt.  Basera Kunwar and Smt.   SundraKuer for possession of zamindari property including sir	 andsayar  left  by Damodar Pande which was dismissed.   On	 thedeath of Basera Kunwar, Adit Pande son of Ram Sewak and	 oneGanga  Pande  got  their names mutated	in  regard  to	thisproperty.Smt.  Mahura Kuar then brought a suit for possession of	 theestate	left by Smt.  Basera Kunwar against Adit  Pande	 andGanga Pande which was decreed on August 1, 1941.  On May 31,1943, Smt.  Mahura Kuar obtained possession through Court ofthis estate which included the two plots Nos. 170 and 74/1.On February 25, 1950, Mahura Kuer made an application to theSub-Divisional	Magistrate for taking proceedings  under  s.145  of the Criminal Procedure Code against Adit  Pande	 andGanga  Pande.  The Magistrate ordered the attachment of	 theland  including the two plots Nos. 170 and 74/1, and  it  isalleged	 that posses. sion of these two plots was  given  toShubh Karan as sapurdar or custodian.  The property remainedunder attachment from March 15, 1950, to December 18,  1950,which would comprise a part of 1357 F and a part of 1358 F.On   December  18,  1950,  the	proceedings  taken  by	 theMagistrate  ended in favour of Mahura Kuar with the  findingthat  her possession had been established.  Adit  Pande	 andGanga Pande were restrained from698interfering  with  the possession of the lady;	and  it	 wasordered that the attachment should end and the possession ofthe plots of land in dispute be handed back to Smt.   MahuraKuer.	The opposite party took a revision to  the  DistrictMagistrate which was dismissed on March 28, 1951, and it  isalleged that actual possession was delivered in April, 1951.From December 1950 to April 1951, the delivery of possessionremained stayed under the District Magistrate's order.On  July  31,  1951, Smt.  Mahura  Kuar	 filed	the  presentcomplaint  in  the  Court  of  the  Judicial  Magistrate  atGhazipur  under s. 218 of the Indian Penal Code against	 thepresent	 appellant  in	which  after  reciting	the  variousrelevant  facts	 she  alleged that the	accused	 who  was  aPatwari	 of the village had deliberately made wrong  entriesin regard to the plots Nos. 170 and 74/1 and in the  remarkscolumn	had  entered  the name of Adit	Pande  as  being  inpossession,  and thus he had committed an offence  under  s.218 of the Indian Penal Code.  The case was committed to thecourt  of Session where in support of the  prosecution	Smt.Mahura	Kuer herself appeared as witness No. I and her	casewas supported by two other witnesses, namely, Gouri  ShankarP.W.  2 and Naresh P.W. 3. The accused produced	 in  defenceAdit Pande D.W. I and Ram Swarup D.W. 2.The  accused's	plea in the Sessions Court was that  he	 hadcome  to know from Shubh Karan Chowkidar that  Smt.   MahuraKuar had won the case under s. 145 of the Criminal ProcedureCode,  but in spite of the order of the Magistrate he  foundthe  possession "on the spot" to be of Adit Pande,  that  hedid not act according to the order of the Magistrate becausehe  did not receive any such order and that he did not	findSmt.   Mahura Kuar in whose favour the order was  passed  bythe Magistrate to be in actual possession.The  learned  trial court found that the  accused  had	madeincorrect  entries knowing them to be incorrect with  intentto  cause  "  gain to Adit Pande and loss  to  Smt.   MahuraKuar."	He, therefore, convicted the accused  and  sentencedhim to one year's rigorous699imprisonment  and a fine of Rs. 200 or in default  4  monthsrigorous imprisonment.The  High Court confirmed the trial court's decision on	 theground	that the delivery of possession to  the	 complainantSmt.   Mahura Kuar was proved by the statements of the	ladyherself	 and  of Gauri Shankar and Naresh Gadaria,  who	 hadsupported the statement of Mahura Kuar and had deposed	thatShubh Karan sapurdar had sown barley in one field and  paddyin  the	 other	and  that  actual  physical  possession	 wasdelivered  to her in April 1951.  On a consideration of	 theevidence the High Court held that the entries were incorrectand had been made with a view to injure Mahura Kuar.Rule  60  of  the U.P. Land Records Manual  deals  with	 thepreparation  of	 Khasras.  The form of the  khasra  containscolumns showing the name of the cultivator, the name of	 thesub-tenant  or	tenants and entries relating to	 crops	etc.The  rule  requires  that  the	entries	 shall	be  made  inaccordance  with  the  actual facts and	 provides  that	 thePatwari	 is responsible for all entries and he must  satisfyhimself	 of the facts by inquiry from the persons  concernedas  well as by field inspection and complete the  khasra  byApril 30th.  In the remarks column -and this is shown by theorder of commitment-the entry of the years 1357 F and 1358 Fwas  "qabiz badastur" (possession as before).  In coming  tothe  finding of incorrectness of the entries in	 the  khasrawith intent to cause injury to Smt.  Mahura Kuar, the Courtsbelow have taken into consideration the proceedings under a.145 of the Criminal Procedure Code.  Although the finding ofthe  Magistrate in those proceedings was in favour  of	Smt.Mahura	Kuar, the land in dispute had been attached and	 hadbeen given for cultivation to Shubhkaran Chowkidar, and evenaccording  to  the  prosecution	 case  the  actual  physicalpossession  did	 not pass to Smt.  Mahura  Kuar	 till  April1951.	The  sapurdar,	Shubhkaran,  himself  has  not	beenexamined  as  a	 witness, may be due to	 the  then  existingdispute between Mahura Kuar and Shubhkaran as to the produceof the land in dispute for the period of his  custodianship.Even though the possession of the90700disputed  plots	 is stated to have been given  to  the	com-plainant  in  April  1951, she was not	in  actual  physicalpossession  before  that date, i.e., during the	 period	 theland was under attachment.For  the  purpose,,; of this case, the	prosecution  had  toprove:-(1)that	 the  accused  knowingly framed	 the  record  in  anincorrect manner; and(2)that	 the  accused did this with the intent to  cause  orwith  the  knowledge  that he would thereby  cause  loss  orinjury to the public or to Smt.	 Mahura Kuar.It  is true that the High Court found that the accused	knewof the litigation between Mahura Kuar and Adit Pande and  inspite of this he had made an incorrect entry.  But in  orderto  sustain  the conviction it is not  sufficient  that	 theentries are incorrect, it is essential that the entry shouldhave been made with the intention mentioned in s. 218 of theIndian	Penal Code.  Direct evidence proving  the  necessaryintention  is, in this case, lacking and the  circumstantialevidence is too meagre to support any safe conclusion as  tothe  intention	with  which the	 appellant  made  the  entrycomplained of.	His case was that the sapurdar,	 Shubhkaran,never got possession from Adit Pande.  Shubhkaran was not  awitness,  may be for the reason already stated, and  it	 wascontended that in the absence of the testimony of Shubhkaranthe  case  of the prosecution cannot be held  to  have	beenproved	at least it is not free from doubt.  But the  courtsbelow  have considered this fact and taking all the  circum-stances	 into  consideration  have held	 in  favour  of	 thecomplainant on the question of possession.The  question  still remains whether the  incorrect  entrieswere  made  with  the intent to cause or knowing  it  to  belikely that the accused will thereby cause loss or injury tothe complainant.  It is difficult to see how any wrong entryin  regard  to the year 1358 F could cause any loss  to	 thecomplainant.  In this case the intention has' to be gatheredfrom the act of the accused.  The entry could not have	beenintended  to  create evidence -for being  used	against	 thecomplainant7O1in  the	 proceedings under s. 145 Criminal  Procedure  Code,because according to the evidence on the record the  entrieswere made somewhere in March and this could not have  helpedAdit  Pande,  as  the magistrate  had  already	decided	 theproceedings under s. 145 Criminal Procedure Code in December1950,  and  had ordered possession to be  delivered  to	 thecomplainant, and, therefore, this entry could not affect theresult	of  the proceeding under s. 145	 Criminal  ProcedureCode.Mr.  Mathur  founded  his case also on s.  16  of  the	U.P.Zamindari  Abolition  and Land Reforms Act, (U.P. Act  I  of1951), which provided that a person, who was recorded as  anoccupant  of  the land for the year 1356 F and who,  on	 thedate mentioned in the section was in possession of the land,shall be deemed to be a hereditary tenant of the land.	 Butthe  entry complained of is not for the year 1356 F but	 forthe  year 1358 F, and this entry would not have been of	 anyavail  to  Adit	 Pande	for the purposes of  s.	 16  of	 theZamindari  Abolition Act.  In the circumstances of the	caseit  cannot  be said that an offence under a.  218  has	beencommitted by the appellant as in our opinion the prosecutionhas failed to prove the necessary criminal intention.In  these  circumstances, we would allow  the  appeal,	,setaside the order of conviction and acquit the accused.  As  aconsequence the bail bond shall stand cancelled.Appeal allowed.