PETITIONER:THE STATE OF PUNJAB	Vs.RESPONDENT:SODHI SUKHDEV SINGHDATE OF JUDGMENT:15/11/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)KAPUR, J.L.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1961 AIR  493		  1961 SCR  (2) 371 CITATOR INFO : R	    1963 SC 395	 (10) D	    1964 SC  72	 (50) RF	    1964 SC1118	 (4,8,9) F	    1964 SC1658	 (10) R	    1964 SC1823	 (26) R	    1966 SC1164	 (14) RF	    1970 SC 214	 (14) RF	    1975 SC 865	 (17,28,29,30,31,33,42,50,69,76 O	    1982 SC 149	 (59,61,67,68,69,74,76,848,917, F	    1987 SC 331	 (40)ACT:Evidence--Production   of  documents--"Affairs	of   State",meaning	  of--Privileged  documents--Scope   of--Ministerialcertificate, if and  when conclusive--Collateral evidence tofind   nature  of  document--Court's  power--Inspection	  ofdocuments--Code	 of Civil Procedure (Act 5 of 1908), O.	 14,r. 14, 19(2), O. 14, r. 14--Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1  of1872), ss. 123, 162.HEADNOTE:The respondent who was a District and Sessions Judge in	 theerstwhile  State of Pepsu was removed from service on  April7, 1953 by an order passed by the President of India who wasthen  in  charge  of the administration	 of  the  State.   Arepresentation	made by the respondent on May 18, 1955,	 wasconsidered  by the Council of Ministers of the State  as  inthe  meantime the President's rule had come to an  end,	 andits  views were expressed in the form of a Resolution  datedSeptember 28, 1955; but before taking any action it  invitedthe advice of the Public Service Commission.  On receipt  ofthe report of the Public Service Commission, the Council  ofMinisters considered the matter again on March 8, 1956,	 andits  views were recorded in the minutes of the	proceedings.On   August  11,  1956,	 the  representation  made  by	 therespondent  was considered over again by the Council  and  afinal	conclusion  was	 reached  in  respect  of  it.	  Inaccordance  with  the said conclusion an  order	 was  passedwhich was communicated to the respondent to the effect	thathe  might be re-employed on some suitable post.	 On  May  5,1958, the respondent instituted a suit against the State  ofPunjab for a declaration that the removal of his service  onApril  7, 1953, was illegal, and filed an application  underO.  14,	 r.  4,	 and O. 11, r. 14,  of	the  Code  of  CivilProcedure  for	the production of certain  documents,  whichincluded  the proceedings of the Council of Ministers  datedSeptember 28, 1955, March 8, 1956, and August 11, 1956,	 andthe  report  of the Public Service  Commission.	  The  Stateobjected  to the production of the said	 documents  claimingprivilege under s. 123 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, andthe  Chief Secretary of the State filed an affidavit  givingreasons	 in support of the claim.  The question was  whetherhaving regard to the true scope and effect of the provisionsof ss.	123 and 167 of the Act the claim of privilege raisedby the State was sustainable.Held, that the documents dated September 28, 1955, March  8,1956, and August II, 1956, which embodied the minutes of372the  meetings  of the Council of  Ministers  indicating	 theadvice which the Council ultimately gave to the	 Rajpramukh,were  expressly saved by Art. 163(3) of the Constitution  ofIndia and fell within the category of documents relating  to"  affairs  of State " within the meaning of s. 123  of	 theIndian Evidence Act, 1872.Accordingly,  they were protected under s. 123, and  as	 thehead  of the department, the Chief Secretary, did  not	givepermission for their production, the Court cannot compel theState to produce them.Held,  further (Subba Rao, J., dissenting), that the  reportof  the Public Service Commission being the advice  tenderedby it, was also protected under s. 123 of the Act.Held, also (Kapur, J., dissenting), that the words  "recordsrelating  to affairs of State " in s. 123 cannot be given  awide  meaning so as to take in every document pertaining  tothe entire business of State, but should be confined only tosuch  documents	 whose disclosure may cause  injury  to	 thepublic interest.The second clause of s. 162 refers to the objections both asto  the	 production and admissibility of  the  document	 andentitles  the  court  to  take other  evidence	in  lieu  ofinspection  of	the  document in dealing  with	a  privilegeclaimed	 or an objection raised under s. 123,  to  determinethe validity of the objections.Case law reviewed.Per  Sinha,  C. J., Gajendragadkar  and	 Wanchoo,  jj.Thoughunder ss. 123 and 162 the Court cannot hold an enquiry	intothe possible injury to public interest which may result fromthe disclosure of the document in question, the matter beingleft  for  the authority concerned to decide, the  Court  iscompetent  to hold a preliminary enquiry and  determine	 thevalidity  of  the  objection  to  its  production  and	thatnecessarily  involves  an enquiry into the  question  as  towhether	 the document relates to affairs of State  under  s.123.   Where s. 123 confers mide powers on the head  of	 thedepartment  to	claim  privilege  on  the  ground  that	 thedisclosure  may cause injury to public interest,  scrupulouscare  must  be	taken to avoid making a	 claim	for  such  aprivilege on the ground that the disclosure of the  documentmay   defeat   the  defence  raised  by	 the   State.	 Theapprehension  that the disclosure may adversely	 affect	 thehead  of  the department or the Minister in  charge  of	 thedepartment  or even the Government in power, or that it	 mayprovoke	 public	 criticism or censure  in  the	Legislature,should	not weigh in the mind of the head of the  departmentand  the  sole test which should determine his	decision  isinjury to public interest and nothing else.The  privilege under S. 123 should be claimed  generally  bythe  Minister  in charge who is the political  head  of	 thedepartment  concerned  ;  if  not,  the	 Secretary  of	 thedepartment should373make  the claim, and the claim should always be made in	 theform  of  an affidavit.	 When the affidavit is made  by	 theSecretary,  the	 Court	may in a  proper  case,	 require  anaffidavit  of  the Minister himself.  The  affidavit  shouldshow that each document in question has been carefully	readand  considered,  and  the person making  the  affidavit  issatisfied  that its disclosure would lead to public  injury.If  there  are	series of documents included in	 a  file  itshould	appear	from  the affidavit that  each	one  of	 thedocuments,  whose disclosure is objected to, has  been	dulyconsidered by the authority concerned.	The affidavit shouldalso  indicate briefly within permissible limits the  reasonwhy  it is apprehended that their disclosure would  lead  toinjury to public interest.If  the	 affidavit  produced in support of  the	 claim'	 forprivilege is found to be unsatisfactory a further  affidavitmay  be called, and in a proper case the person	 making	 theaffidavit  whether he is a Minister or the Secretary  shouldbe  summoned  to  face	cross-examination  on  the  relevantpoints.The  provisions	 of O. 11, r. 19(2), of the  Code  of  CivilProcedure  must	 be  read subject to s. 162  of	 the  IndianEvidence  Act and where a privilege is claimed at the  stageof inspection under O. 11, r. 19(2), of the Code, the  Courtis precluded from inspecting the privileged document in viewof s. 162 of the Act.Per  Kapur, J.-The words of s. 123 of the Act are very	wideand cover all classes of documents which may fall within thephrase	" affairs of State ", some noxious and others  inno-cuous,	and may even appear to be unduly restrictive of	 therights	of the litigant but if that is the law the sense  ofresponsibility	of the official concerned and his  sense  offair play has to be trusted.  Under that section  discretionto produce or not to produce a document is given to the headof  the	 department  and  the court has	 not  the  power  tooverride the ministerial certificate against production.The words " or take other evidence to enable it to determineon  its admissibility" in s. 162 on their plain language  donot apply to production and the taking of evidence must havereference  to admissibility.  The section does	not  entitlethe  court  to	take other evidence  i.e.,  other  than	 thedocument,  to  determine the nature of the document  or	 thereasons impelling the head of the department to withhold theproduction of the document.It is permissible for the Court to determine the  collateralfacts  whether	the official claiming the privilege  is	 theperson	mentioned  in s. 123, or to require him	 to  file  aproper	affidavit  or  even to	cross-examine  him  on	suchmatters	 which	do  not fall within the enquiry	 as  to	 thenature of the document or nature of the injury.	 He may alsobe cross-examined as to the existence of the practice of thedepartment to keep documents of the class374secret but beyond that the ministerial discretion should  beaccepted and it should neither be reviewed nor overruled.Per  Subba  Rao,  J.-(1) " Records relating  to	 affairs  ofState"	in s. 123 of the Act mean documents of	State  whoseproduction  would  endanger the public	interest;  documentspertaining to public security, defence and foreign relationsare  documents	relating to affairs  of	 State;	 unpublisheddocuments  relating  to trading, commercial  or	 contractualactivities   of	 the  State  are  not,	ordinarily,  to	  beconsidered as documents relating to affairs of State, but inspecial circumstances they may partake of that character andit is a question of fact in each case whether they relate toaffairs	 of  State  or not in the sense	 that  if  they	 aredisclosed public interest would suffer.(2)  Under no circumstances can a court inspect such a docu-ment or permit giving of secondary evidence of its contents.(3)  Under s. 162 the Court has overriding power to disallowa claim of privilege raised by the State, but in its discre-tion, the court will exercise its power only in	 exceptionalcircumstances when public interest demands.  The said  claimshall  be  made	 by an affidavit filed by  the	Minister  incharge of the department concerned describing the nature  ofthe  document in general and broadly the category of  publicinterest its non-disclosure purports to serve.	 Ordinarily,the  court shall accept the affidavit of a Minister, but  inexceptional  circumstances,  when it has reason	 to  believethat  there is more than what meets the eye, it can  examinethe Minister and take other evidence to decide the  questionof privilege.(4)  The disclosure of the report of the Public Service Com-mission	  may expose the Government if the latter ignores  agood advice,   but  such an exposure is certainly in  publicinterest  and  in a conflict between the  administration  ofjustice	 and the claim of privilege by the State, the  claimmust be overruled.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 337 of 1960.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJanuary 19, 1960, of the Punjab High Court in Civil RevisionNo. 596 of 1959.N. S. Bindra and D. Gupta, for the appellant.Gopal Singh,  for the respondent.H.   M.	  Seervai,   Advocate-General  for  the	  State	  ofMaharashtra and R. H. Dhebar, for the Intervener.1960.  November 15.  The judgment of B. P. Sinha, C. J.,  P.B. Gajendragadkar, J. and K. N. Wanchoo, J. was delivered byP.  B. Gajendragadkar, J. J. L. Kapur, J. and K. Subba	Rao,J., delivered separate judgments.375GAJENDRAGADKAR,	 J.-This  appeal raises for our	 decision  aquestion of law of general importance under ss. 123 and	 162of  the	 Indian Evidence Act, 1872,  (hereafter	 called	 theAct).  Originally the same point had been raised in  anothercivil  appeal  before this Court, Civil Appeal	No.  241  of1955.	The said appeal was the result of a dispute  betweenDowager	 Lady  Dinbai Dinshaw Petit on the one hand and	 theUnion of India and the State of Bombay on the other.  Havingregard	to' the importance of the point raised by  the	saidappeal	a Division Bench of this Court before whom it  firstcame  for  hearing  directed that it should  be	 placed	 fordisposal before a Constitution Bench, and accordingly it wasplaced	before us.  The appellant and the respondent in	 thepresent	 appeal	 then applied for  permission  to  intervenebecause the same point arose for decision in this appeal  aswell;  that is how this appeal was also placed before us  tobe  heard after the Bombay appeal.  After the Bombay  appealwas heard for some days parties to the said appeal  amicablysettled	 their dispute and a decree by consent	was  passed.In the result the point of general importance raised by	 thesaid appeal fell to be considered in the present appeal; andso the appellant and the respondent in the said appeal askedfor  permission to intervene in the present appeal,  and  wedirected  that the arguments urged by Mr. Viswanatha  Sastriand  Mr. Seervai, for th appellant and the State  of  Bombayrespectively,  should  be  treated  as	arguments  urged  byinterveners in the present appeal.  Mr. Bindra, who  appearsfor the appellant State of Punjab in the present appeal, andMr. Gopal Singh who represents the respondent Sodhi  SukhdevSingh, have substantially adopted the arguments urged by Mr.Seervai and Mr. Sastri respectively and have also  addressedus  on	the special facts in their appeal; that is  how	 thepoint  of law in regard to the scope and effect of  ss.	 123and 162 of the Act has to be decided in the present appeal.This appeal has been brought to this Court by special  leavegranted	 by this Court, and it arises from a suit  filed  bythe  respondent	 against the appellant on May 5,  1958.	  Itappears that the respondent was376a  District  and Sessions Judge in the	erstwhile  State  ofPepsu.	He was removed from service on April 7, 1953, by  anorder  passed  by  the President of India who  was  then  incharge	of  the	 administration	 of  the  said	State.	 Therespondent then made a representation on May 18, 1955.	Thisrepresentation was considered by the Council of Ministers ofthe  said  State  on  September 28,  1955,  because  in	 themeantime  the  President's rule had come to an end  and	 theadministration	of  Pepsu was entrusted to  the	 Council  ofMinisters.  The Council expressed its views in the form of aResolution  on	the representation of  the  respondent;	 butbefore taking any action it invited the advice of the PublicService	 Commission.   On  receiving  the  said	 advice	 theCouncil again considered the said representation on March 8,1956,  and  views on the merits of the	representation	wereexpressed  by  the  Members  of	 the  Council.	 These	wererecorded  in  the minutes of the proceedings.	Finally,  onAugust	11,  1956, the representation  was  considered	overagain  by the Council, and it reached a final conclusion  inrespect	 of it.	 In accordance with the said  conclusion  anorder  was passed which was communicated to the	 respondent.The  order read thus: " Reference his  representation  datedthe  18th May, 1955, against the order of his  removal	fromservice;  the State Government have ordered that he  may  bere-employed on some suitable post ".After  this  order was communicated to	him  the  respondentfiled  the present suit against the appellant and claimed  adeclaration,  inter alia, that his removal from	 service  onApril 7, 1953, was illegal, void and inoperative and  prayed'for  the  recovery  of Rs. 62,700-6-0	as  arrears  of	 hissalary.,  The appellant disputed the respondent's  claim  onseveral	 grounds.   Issues were accordingly  framed  by	 thetrial  judge on January 27, 1959.  Meanwhile the  respondenthad filed an application under O. 14, r. 4 as well as O. 11,r.  14	of the Civil Procedure Code for	 the  production  ofdocuments mentioned in the list annexed to the	application.The trial court issued notice against the appellant for	 thereduction of the said documents.			    377In reply to the notice Mr. E. N. Mangat Rai, Chief Secretaryof the appellant, made an affidavit claiming privilege unders.  123	 of the Act in respect of  certain  documents  whoseproduction had been ordered, and gave reasons in support  ofthe  claim.   On the same day Mr. Mangat  Rai  made  anotheraffidavit  in  which he gave reasons  for  claiming  similarprivilege  in  respect	of  certain  other  documents.	 Thestatements  made in these affidavits were challenged by	 therespondent  who	 submitted a counter affidavit.	  After	 theaffidavits  had	 thus been filed by the	 parties  the  trialcourt  heard their arguments on the question  of  privilege,and  on	 August 27, 1959, it upheld the claim  of  privilegemade by the appellant for the production of some  documents,and accepted the reasons given by Mr. Mangat Rai in  supportof the said claim of privilege.The respondent then moved the High Court of Punjab under  s.115  of	 the  Code of Civil Procedure and Art.	227  of	 theConstitution  for  the	quashing of  the  said	order.	 Thepetition for revision (C.  R. 596 of 1959) first came up fordecision  before  D.  K. Mahajan, J.,  at  Chandigarh.	 Thelearned judge took the view that the question raised by	 thepetition  was of considerable importance, and so he  orderedthat  the papers should be placed before the  learned  ChiefJustice	 to enable him to direct that the matter be  decidedby  a larger Bench.  Thereupon the petition was	 placed	 fordecision  before Dulat and Dua, JJ., who, after hearing	 theparties,  reversed  the order under revision in	 respect  offour  documents,  and directed that the	 said  documents  beproduced  by the appellant.  The appellant then	 applied  tothe  High  Court for a certificate under Art.  133  but	 itsapplication  was dismissed.  It then came to this Court	 andapplied	 for  and obtained special leave  to  challenge	 thevalidity  of the order passed by the Punjab High Court;	 andin the appeal the only question which has been urged  beforeus is that having regard to the true scope and effect of theprovisions of as. 123 and 162 of the Act the High Court	 wasin error in refusing to uphold the claim of48378privilege  raised  by  the  appellant  in  respect  of	 thedocuments in question.The  question thus posed will naturally have to be  answeredon  a fair and reasonable construction of the two  statutoryprovisions  of	the  Act.   It has,  how   ever,  been	verystrenuously urged before us by Mr.  J.	Seervai that  beforeproceeding  to construe the said provisions it is  necessarythat the Court should bear in mind the historical backgroundof  the said provisions.  His argument is that ss.  123	 and162 as they were enacted in the Act in 1872 were intended tointroduce  in  India the English Law in regard	to  what  iscommonly  described as the Crown privilege in the same	formin which it obtained in England at the material time; and sohe has asked us to determine in the first instance what	 thetrue state of English Law was in or about 1872 A. D.In  order  to  decide  this  question  three  representativeEnglish decisions must be considered.  In Home v. Lord F. C.Bentinck  (1) the Court was dealing with a claim-made  by  Hwho  had  sued	the president of the  enquiry  for  a  libelalleged	 to  be	 contained in the report made  by  him.	  Itappears	 that H was a commissioned officer in the  Army	 andthe  Commander-in-Chief	 of the said Army  had	directed  anassemblage  of	commissioned military officers	to  hold  anenquiry	 into  the  conduct of H. According to	H  the	saidreport	contained libellous matter, and so he had  sued	 thepresident  of the enquiry.  At the trial H desired that	 thereport submitted by the court of enquiry should be  producedand this request was resisted by the defendant on the groundthat  the  document  in question  was  a  privileged  commu-nication.  This plea was upheld.  Dallas, C. J., referred tothe  precedents relevant to the decision of the	 point,	 andobserved that the basis of the said precedents was that	 thedisclosure  would cause danger to the public good.  He	thenconsidered the nature of the enquiry which had been directedagainst H, and observed that in the course of the enquiry  anumber	of  persons may be called before the court  and	 maygive information as witnesses which they would not choose to(1) 1820) 2 Brod. & B. 130  : 129 E. R. 907 .379have disclosed ; but, if the minutes of the court of enquiryare  to be produced on an action brought by the party,	theyreveal	the name of every witness and the evidence given  byeach.  Not only this but they also reveal what has been saidand  done by each member of the existing court	of  enquiry;and,  according to ,the learned judge, the reception of	 thesaid  minutes would tend directly to disclose that which  isnot permitted to be disclosed; and so, independently of	 thecharacter  of  the court the production of  the	 report	 wasprivileged   on	 the  broad  rule  of  public	policy	 andconvenience  that matters like those covered by	 the  reportare secret in their nature and involve delicate enquiry	 andthe names of persons who ought to stand protected.The next decision to which our attention has been invited isSmith  v.  The	East India Company (1).	 In  that  case	 thedispute	 with which the Court was concerned had arisen	withrespect to a commercial transaction in which the East  IndiaCompany	 bad been engaged with a third party; and  privilegewas  claimed in regard to the correspondence which had	beencarried oil by the defendant with the Board of Control.	  Itwas held that the said correspondence was, on the ground  ofpublic	policy,	 a  privileged	communication,	and  so	 theCompany were not bound to produce or set forth the  contentsof it in answer to a bill of discovery filed against them bythe  third party in relation to the transaction to which  itreferred.  Lord Lyndhurst upheld the claim of privilege	 notbecause the correspondence purported to be confidential	 norbecause	 it was official, but because of the effect  of	 theprovisions of c. 85 of Act 3 & 4 W. 4 on which the claim  ofprivilege was founded.	It was noticed that the Company hadbeen prohibited from carrying on any commercial transactionsexcept	for the purpose of winding up their affairs  or	 forthe  purposes  of the Government of India; and it  was	heldthat the result of the relevant provisions, and particularlyof  is. 29 was that the Directors of the East India  Companywere required to make communication of all their(1) [1841] 1 Ph.50: 41 E.R. (Chancery) 550.380acts,  transactions and correspondence of every	 descriptionto the Board of Control.  That is why a claim for  privilegein  respect  of the said correspondence	 was  upheld.	Thisdecision  shows that a claim for privilege could  have	beenmade  even  for	 correspondence which  had  reference  to  acommercial transaction in circumstances similar to those  inthat case.The  last decision on which considerable reliance  has	beenplaced	by Mr. Seervai is the case of Beatson v. Skene	(3).It  may	 incidentally  be  pointed  out	 that  Chief   BaronPollock's observations in this judgment are frequently citedin judicial decisions where the question of privilege  fallsto  be	considered.  In that case the plaintiff had  been  ageneral who commanded a corps of irregular troops during thewar  in	 Crimea.   Complaint  having  been  made  about	 theinsubordination	 of  troops the corps was placed  under	 thesuperior command of V. Thereupon the plaintiff resigned	 hiscommand.  V directed S to inspect and report upon the  stateof  the	 corps,	 and  referred	S  for	information  to	 thedefendant who was a Civil Commissioner.	 The defendant, in aconversation with S, made a defamatory statement  respectingthe  conduct  of the plaintiff.	 The  plaintiff	 brought  anaction	against the defendant for slander.  The defence	 setup  against the plaintiff's claim was that what	 had  passedbetween the defendant and S was a privileged  communication.The jury had found a verdict for the defendant.	 A new trialwas claimed by the plaintiff, inter alia, on the ground thatthe  learned judge had declined to compel the production  ofcertain	 documents.  It appeared that the Secretary for	 Warhad  been subpoenaed to produce certain letters	 written  bythe  plaintiff to him and also the minutes of the  court  ofenquiry	 as to the conduct of S in writing the letter to  V.The plea for a new trial was rejected on the ground that theCourt was of the opinion that the non-production of the saiddocuments furnished no ground for a new trial.	There was  adifference of opinion among the members of the Court on	 thequestion  as  to  whether Bramwell,  J.,  was  justified  inupholding the claim of privilege., Pollock,(3)  (1860) 5 H. & N. 838: 157 E.R. 1415.381C.   B.,  Bramwell, B., and Wilde, B., held that  the  claimfor privilege was properly upheld, whereas Martin, B.,	tooka contrary view.Dealing	 with  the  claim made that the	 production  of	 thedocuments would be injurious to the public service  Pollock,C.  B.,	 observed that the general public interest  must  beconsidered paramount to the individual interest of a  suitorin  a  Court of Justice, and he posed the question:  How  isthis  to be determined ?  Then Pollock, C. B., proceeded  toobserve	 that  the question must be determined either  by  apresiding  judge or by the responsible servant of the  Crownin  whose  custody the paper is; and he	 remarked  that	 thejudge  would be unable to determine it without	ascertainingwhat the document is and why the publication of it would  beinjurious  to  public service-an enquiry which	cannot	takeplace  in private, and which taking place in public  may  doall the mischief which it is proposed to guard against.	  Hefurther held that " the administration of justice is only  apart  of the general conduct of the affairs of any State  ornation, and we 'think is (with respect to the production  ornon-production	of  a  State paper in a	 Court	of  Justice)subordinate  to	 the  general  welfare	of  the	 community".Martin,	 B., however, was of the opinion that  whenever	 thejudge  is  satisfied that the document may  be	made  publicwithout	 prejudice to the public service the judge ought  tocompel its production notwithstanding the reluctance of	 thehead of the department to produce it.  It would thus be seenthat  according	 to  the majority view the  question  as  towhether any injury to public interest would be caused by theproduction  of the document could not be determined  by	 theCourt, because such an enquiry would tend to defeat the verypurpose	 for which privilege is claimed, whereas,  accordingto the minority view it was for the Court to hold an enquiryand determine whether any injury would follow the productionof the document.Mr.   Seervai  contends	 that  these   decisions   correctlyrepresent  the	legal  position	 in  regard  to	 the   Crownprivilege  in England in the second half of  the  NineteenthCentury, and, according to him, when the382Indian	Evidence  Act  was drafted by  Sir  James  FitzjamesStephen	 he  intended to make provisions in  the  Act  whichwould  correspond to the said position in the  English	Law.In  other  words, the argument is that ss. 123 and  162	 areintended  to lay down that, when a privilege is	 claimed  bythe  State in the matter of production of  State  documents,the  total  question with  regard to the  said	claim  fallswithin	the  discretion	 of  the  head	of  the	  departmentconcerned,  and he has to decide in his	 discretion  whetherthe document belongs to the privileged class and whether itsproduction would cause injury to public interest.  It is  inthe  light of this background that Mr. Seervai wants  us  toconstrue the relevant sections of the Act.In support of this argument Mr. Seervai has also referred usto the draft prepared by Sir James Fitzjames Stephen at	 theinstance  of  Lord  Coleridge for adoption  by	the  EnglishParliament,  and has relied on Art. 112 in the	said  draft.Art. 112 provides, inter alia, that no one can be  compelledto give evidence relating to any affairs of State, or as  toofficial communications between public officers upon  publicaffairs,  unless the officer at the head of  the  departmentconcerned  permits  him to do so.  It also  refers  to	someother matters with which we are not concerned.	This part ofArt.  112 as framed by Sir James Fitzjames Stephen seems  toinclude the provisions of ss. 123 and 124 of the Act.  It issignificant  that  there is nothing in	this  Article  whichcorresponds to s. 162 of the Act.  Mr. Seervai concedes thatthe  draft prepared by Sir James Fitzjames Stephen  was	 notadopted	 by Parliament, and even now there is  no  statutorylaw  of evidence in England; even so, he contends  that	 theintention which Sir James Fitzjames Stephen had in  draftingthe  relevant sections of the Indian Evidence Act must	havebeen similar to his intention in drafting Art. 112, and thatis another fact which we may bear in mind in construing	 therelevant  sections  of the Act.	 We ought, however,  to	 addthat though Mr. Seervai elaborately argued this part of	 hiscase  he fairly conceded that recourse to extrinsic  aid  ininterpreting a statutory provisions would be justified only383within well recognised limits; and that primarily the effectof  the	 statutory provisions must be judged on a  fair	 andreasonable  construction  of the words used by	the  statuteitself.Let us now turn to s. 123.  It reads thus:"  No  one shall be permitted to give any  evidence  derivedfrom  unpublished official records relating, to any  affairsof  State, except with the permission of the officer at	 thehead of the department concerned, who shall give or withholdsuch permission as he thinks fit."This  section  refers to evidence derived  from	 unpublishedofficial  records  which have a relation to any	 affairs  ofState,	and  it	 provides that such evidence  shall  not  bepermitted  to  be given unless the head	 of  the  departmentconcerned gives permission in that behalf.  In other  words,as a result of this section a document which is material andrelevant is allowed to be withheld from the Court, and	thatundoubtedly  constitutes a very serious departure  from	 theordinary  rules of evidence.  It is well known that  in	 theadministration	of  justice  it is a  principle	 of  generalapplication  that both parties to the dispute  must  produceall the- relevant and material evidence in their  possessionor their power which is necessary to prove their  respectivecontentions;  that is why the Act has  prescribed  elaboraterules to determine relevance and has evolved the doctrine ofonus  of proof.	 If the onus of proof of any issue is  on  aparty  and it fails to produce such evidence, s. 114 of	 theAct  justifies	the  inference that  the  said	evidence  ifproduced  would	 be against the interest of the	 person	 whowithholds  it.	As a result of s. 123 no such inference	 canbe drawn against the State if its privilege is upheld.	Thatshows  the nature and the extent of the departure  from	 theordinary rule which is authorised by s. 123.The  principle	on  which  this	 departure  can	 be  and  isjustified  is the principle of the overriding and  paramountcharacter  of public interest.	A valid claim for  privilegemade  under s. 123 proceeds on the basis of the theory	thatthe production of the document in384that,  where a conflict arises between public  interest	 andprivate	 interest, the latter must yield to the former.	  Nodoubt  the litigant whose claim may not succeed as a  resultof the non-production of the relevant and material  documentmay feel aggrieved by the result, and the Court, in reachingthe  said  decision, may feel dissatisfied;  but  that	willnot .affect the validity of the basic principle that  publicgood  and interest must override considerations	 of  privategood  and private interest.  Care has, however, to be  takento  see that interests other than that of the public do	 notmasquerade  in	the garb of public interest and	 take  undueadvantage  of  the provisions of s. 123.   Subject  to	thisreservation  the  maxim silus populi est supreme  les  whichmeans  that regard for public welfare is the highest law  isthe basis of the provisions contained in s. 123.  Though  s.123  does not expressly refer to injury to  public  interestthat principle is obviously implicit in it and indeed is itssole foundation.Whilst we are discussing the basic principle underlying	 theprovisions of s. 123, it may be pertinent to enquire whetherfair and fearless administration of justice itself is not  amatter	of high public importance.  Fair  administration  ofjustice between a citizen and a citizen or between a citizenand the State is itself a matter of great public importance;much more so would the administration of justice as a  wholebe  a  matter of very high public importance ; even  so,  onprinciple, if there is a real, not imaginary or	 fictitious,conflict  between  public interest and the  interest  of  anindividual in a pending case, it may reluctantly have to  beconceded that the interest of the individual cannot  prevailover  the public interest.  If social security and  progresswhich are necessarily included in the concept of public goodare  the  ideal	 then  injury to  the  said  ideal  must  onprinciple be avoided even at the cost of the interest of  anindividual  involved  in  a particular case.   That  is	 whyCourts are and ought to be vigilant in dealing with a  claimof privilege made under s. 123.If under s. 123 a dispute arises as to whether the385evidence  in question is derived from  unpublished  officialrecords	 that  can be easily resolved ;	 but  what  presentsconsiderable  difficulty  is  a dispute as  to	whether	 theevidence in question relates to any affairs of State.	Whatare  the affairs of State under s. 123 ? In the latter	halfof  the Nineteenth Century affairs of State may have  had  acomparatively  narrow content.	Having regard to the  notionabout governmental functions and duties which then obtained,affairs	 of State would have meant matters of  political  oradministrative character relating, for instance, to nationaldefence,  public  peace and security  and  good	 neighbourlyrelations.  Thus, if the contents of the documents were suchthat  their  disclosure	 would affect  either  the  nationaldefence	 or  public security or good  neighbourly  relationsthey  could  claim the character of a document	relating  toaffairs	 of State.  There may be another class of  documentswhich could claim the said privilege not by reason of  theircontents as such but by reason of the fact that, if the saiddocuments  were disclosed, they would materially affect	 thefreedom and candour of expression of opinion in the determi-nation and execution of public policies.  In this class	 maylegitimately  be  included  notes and minutes  made  by	 therespective   officers  on  the	relevant   files,   opinionsexpressed,  or reports made, and gist of official  decisionsreached	 in  the. course of the determination  of  the	saidquestions  of  policy.	 In the efficient  admit  of  publicaffairs	 government  may reasonably treat such	a  class  ofdocuments  as  confidential  and urge  that  its  disclosureshould	be  prevented on the ground of	possible  injury  topublic interest.  In other words, if the proper	 functioningof the public service would be impaired by the disclosure ofany  document  or class of documents such document  or	suchclass  of documents may also claim the status  of  documentsrelating to public affairs.It  may	 be  that when the Act was  passed  the	 concept  ofgovernmental functions and their extent was limited, and  sowas  the  concept  of  the  words  "  affairs  of  State   "correspondingly limited; but,. as 'is often386said,  words are not static vehicles of ideas  or  concepts.As  the	 content  of  the  ideas  or  concepts	conveyed  byrespective  words expands, so does the content of the  wordskeep  pace with the said expanding content of the  ideas  orconcepts,,  and that naturally tends to widen the  field  ofpublic	interest which the  section wants to  protect.	 Theinevitable  consequence of the change in the concept of	 thefunctions  of the State is that the State in pursuit of	 itswelfare	 activities  undertakes	 to  an	 increasing   extentactivities which were formerly treated as purely commercial,and  documents	in relation to	such  commercial  activitiesundertaken by the State in the pursuit of public policies ofsocial	welfare	 are  also apt to  claim  the  privilege  ofdocuments  relating  to	 the affairs of	 State.	  It  is  inrespect of such documents that we reach the marginal line inthe   application  of  s.  123;	 and  it  is  precisely	  indetermining  the  claim for privilege for  such	 border-linecases that difficulty arises.It  is,	 however,  necessary  to  remember  that  where	 theLegislature  has  advisedly  refrained	from  defining	 theexpression " affairs of State " it would be inexpedient	 forjudicial  decisions  to attempt to put the  said  expressioninto  a	 strait jacket of a definition	judicially  evolved.The  question  as to whether any particular  document  or  aclass	of  documents  answers	the  description   must	  bedetermined   in	 each  case  on	 the  relevant	 facts	 andcircumstances adduced before the Court.	 " Affairs of  State",  according  to Mr. Seervai, are  synonymous	with  publicbusiness and he contends that s. 123 provides for a  generalprohibition against the production of any document  relatingto  public business unless permission for its production  isgiven by the head of the department concerned.	Mr.  Seervaihas  argued  that documents in regard to  affairs  of  Stateconstitute  a  genus under which there are  two	 species  ofdocuments, one the disclosure of which will cause no  injuryto  public interest, and the other the disclosure  of  whichmay  cause injury to public interest.  In the light  of	 theconsequence  which  may flow from their disclosure  the	 twospecies	 of  documents	can be described  as  innocuous	 andnoxious	 respectively.	According to Mr. Seervai the  effectof s. 123			    387is  that  there is a general prohibition  against  the	pro-duction of all documents relating to public business subjectto  the exception that the head of the department  can	givepermission  for	 the  production of such  documents  as	 areinnocuous  and	not  noxious.  He contends that	 it  is	 notpossible  to imagine that the section contemplates that	 thehead of the department G. would give permission to produce anoxious	 document.  It is on this interpretation of  s.	 123that Mr. Seervai seeks to build up similarity between s. 123and the English Law as it was understood in 1872.  In  otherwords,	according  to Mr. Seervai the  jurisdiction  of	 theCourt  in dealing with a claim of privilege under s. 123  isvery limited and in most of the cases, if not all, the Courtwould have to accept the claim without effective scrutiny.On  the other hand it has been urged by Mr. Sastri that	 theexpression  " documents relating to any affairs of  State  "should	receive	 a  narrow construction; and  it  should  beconfined  only to the class of noxious documents.   Even  inregard	to this class the argument is that the Court  shoulddecide the character of the document and should not hesitateto   enquire,	incidentally  if  necessary,   whether	 itsdisclosure  would lead to injury to public  interest.	Thiscontention seeks to make the jurisdiction of the Court widerand  the  field of discretion entrusted	 to  the  departmentcorrespondingly narrower.It  would  thus	 be seen that on the  point  in	 controversybetween	 the  parties three views are possible.	  The  firstview is that it is the head of the department who decides towhich  class  the  document  belongs; if  he  comes  to	 theconclusion  that  the  document is innocuous  he  will	givepermission  to its production; if, however, he comes to	 theconclusion  that  the document is noxious he  will  withholdsuch  permission; in any case the Court does not  materiallycome into the picture.	The other view is that it is for theCourt  to  determine the character of the document,  and  ifnecessary  enquire  into the possible  consequences  of	 itsdisclosure;  on this view the jurisdiction of the  Court  isvery much wider.  A third view which does  not388accept	either of the two extreme positions would  be  thatthe  Court can determine the character of the document,	 andif  it comes to the conclusion that the document belongs  tothe  noxious  class  it	 may leave it to  the  head  of	 thedepartment  to	decide	whether	 its  production  should  bepermitted or not ; for it is not  the policy of s. 123	thatin  the	 case  of every noxious document  the  head  of	 thedepartment must always withhold permission.  In deciding thequestion  as  to  which	 of  these  three  views   correctlyrepresents the true legal position under the Act it would benecessary to examine s. 162.  Let us therefore, turn to thatsection.Section 162 reads thus:"  A witness summoned to produce a document shall, if it  isin   his   possession	or  power,  bring   it	 to   Court,notwithstanding	 any  objection which there may	 be  to	 itsproduction  or	to its admissibility.  The validity  of	 anysuch objection shall be decided on by the Court.The Court, if it sees fit, may inspect the document,  unlessit  refers  to matters of State, or take other	evidence  toenable it to determine on its admissibility."The first clause of s. 162 requires that a witness  summonedto  produce a document must bring it to the Court  and	thenraise  an  objection against either its	 production  or	 itsadmissibility.	 It  also authorises the Court,	 and  indeedmakes it its obligation, to decide the validity of either orboth  of the said objections.  It is significant  that	theobjections  to the production or admissibility	of  evidencespecified  in  s.  162 relate to  all  claims  of  privilegeprovided by the relevant sections of Chapter IX of Part	 IIIof  the Act.  Section 123 is only one of such privileges  sothat  the  jurisdiction	 given to the Court  to	 decide	 thevalidity  of the objections covers not only  the  objectionsraised under s. 123 but all other objections as well.	Takefor  instance the privilege claimed under s. 124 of the	 Actwhich provides that no public officer shall be compelled  todisclose  communications made to him in official  confidencewhen he considers he considers that the public interest389would suffer by the disclosure.	 It is clear, and indeed  itis not. disputed, that in dealing with an objection  againstthe  production of a document raised under s. 124 the  Courtwould  have first to determine whether the communication  inquestion  has  been  made in official  confidence.   If	 theanswer	to  the said question is in the	 negative  then	 thedocument  has to be produced ; if the said answer is in	 theaffirmative  then it is for the officer concerned to  decidewhether	 the  document	should be disclosed  or	 not.	Thisillustration  brings out the character and the scope of	 thejurisdiction   conferred  on  the  Court  dealing  with	  anobjection raised under s. 162.The second clause of s. 162 in terms refers to the objectionas  to	the admissibility of the document.  It seems  to  usthat  this  clause  should  be construed  to  refer  to	 theobjections  both as to the production and the  admissibilityof documents; otherwise, in the absence of any limitation onits  power  the Court would be justified in  exercising	 itsauthority under, and discharging its obligation imposed	 by,cl.  1 of s. 162 by inspecting the document while holding anenquiry	 into the validity of the objection  raised  againstits production under s. 123, and that would be	inconsistentwith the material provision in cl. 2 of s. 162.	 That is whywe  hold  that	the  second  clause  covers  both  kinds  ofobjections.   In other words, admissibility in	the  contextrefers	both  to production and admissibility.	 It  may  beadded  that " matters of State " referred to in	 the  secondclause are identical with " affairs of State " mentioned  ins. 123.Reading this clause on this assumption what is its effect  ?It empowers the Court to inspect the document while  dealingwith the objection; but this power cannot be exercised wherethe  objection	relates to a document  having  reference  tomatters	 of State and it is raised under s. 123.  In such  acase the Court is empowered to take other evidence to enableit to determine the validity of the objection.	Mr.  Seervaicontends  that the first part of cl. 2 which deals with	 theinspection  of	the document is confined  to  the  objectionrelating to the production of the document,390and  on that basis he contends that since inspection is	 notpermissible  in regard to the document falling under s.	 123the  Court can do nothing else but record its  approval	 to,and uphold the validity of, the objection raised by the headof  the	 department.  In regard to the objection as  to	 theadmissibility  of  the said document, however,	he  concedesthat  the Court can take other evidence, if  necessary,	 andthen  determine	 its  validity.	  According  to	 him,	suchevidence  would	 be  necessary	and  permissible  when	 theobjection to admissibility is based for instance on want  ofstamp or absence of registration.  In our opinion, this con-struction though ingenious is not supportable on a plain andgrammatical  construction of the clause read as a whole;  itbreaks	up  the	 clause artificially which  is	plainly	 notjustified  by rules of grammar.	 We are satisfied  that	 theCourt  can take other evidence in lieu of inspection of	 thedocument in dealing with a privilege claimed or an objectionraised even under s. 123.  If the privileged document cannotbe  inspected  the  Court may  well  take  other  collateralevidence  to  determine its character or  class.   In  otherwords, the jurisdiction conferred on the Court to deal	withthe validity of an objection as to the production of a docu-ment  conferred	 by  the first clause  is  not	illusory  ornominal	 ;  it has to be exercised in  cases  of  objectionsraised under s. 123 also by calling for evidence permissiblein  that  behalf.  It is perfectly true that in	 holding  anenquiry into the validity of the objection under s. 123	 theCourt  cannot permit any evidence about the contents of	 thedocument.  If the document cannot be inspected its  contentscannot	indirectly be proved ; but that is not to  say	thatother  collateral  evidence  cannot be	produced  which	 mayassist	the  Court  in	determining  the  validity  of	 theobjection.This  position would be clear if at this stage	we  considerthe  question as to how an objection against the  productionof  document  should  be raised under S.  123.	it  is	wellsettled	 and not disputed that the privilege should  not  beclaimed	 under	s. 123 because it is  apprehended  that	 thedocument if produced would defeat the defences raised by theState.	Anxiety391to  suppress  a	 document may be natural  in  an  individuallitigant and so it is checked and kept under control by	 theprovisions  of	s. 114 of the Act.  Where, however,  s.	 123confers	 wide powers on the bead of the department to  claimprivilege on the ground that the disclosure may cause injuryto  public interest scrupulous care must be taken  to  avoidmaking	a claim for such a privilege on the ground that	 thedisclosure of the document may defeat the defence raised  bythe  State.  It must be clearly realised that the effect  ofthe  document  on the ultimate course of litigation  or	 itsimpact	on  the head of the department or  the	Minister  incharge	of the department, or even the government in  power,has  no relevance in making a claim for privilege  under  s.123.   The  apprehension that the disclosure  may  adverselyaffect	the head of the department or the department  itselfor  the	 Minister  or even the government, or  that  it	 mayprovoke	 public criticism or censure in the Legislature	 hasalso no relevance in the matter and should not weigh in	 themind of the head of the department who makes the claim.	 Thesole  and the only test which should determine the  decisionof  the head of the department is injury to public  interestand nothing else.  Since it is not unlikely that  extraneousand  collateral	 purposes  may operate in the  mind  of	 theperson	claiming the privilege it is necessary to  lay	downcertain	 rules	in  respect  of	 the  manner  in  which	 theprivilege  should be claimed.  We think that in	 such  casesthe privilege should be claimed generally by the Minister incharge who is the political head of the department  concern-ed;  if	 not,  the Secretary of the department	who  is	 thedepartmental  head  should  make the claim;  and  the  claimshould always be made in the form of an affidavit.  When theaffidavit  is  made  by the Secretary the Court	 may,  in  aproper	case, require an affidavit of the Minister  himself.The affidavit should show that each document in question hasbeen  carefully read and considered, and the  person  makingthe affidavit is satisfied that its disclosure would lead topublic injury.	If there are a series of documents  includedin a file it should appear from the affidavit that each	 oneof the documents, whose disclosure is objected to, has been392duly  considered by the authority concerned.  The  affidavitshould	also indicate briefly within permissible limits	 thereason	why  it is apprehended that their  disclosure  wouldlead  to injury to public interest.  This  last	 requirementwould be very important when privilege is claimed in  regardto  documents  which  prima, facie  suggest  that  they	 aredocuments of a commercial character having relation only  tocommercial activities of the State.  If the document clearlyfalls within the category of privileged documents Do seriousdispute generally arises; it is only when Courts are dealingwith marginal or border-line documents that difficulties areexperienced  in	 deciding whether the  privilege  should  beupheld	or  not, and it is particularly in respect  of	suchdocuments  that	 it  is expedient  and	desirable  that	 theaffidavit should give some indication about the reasons	 whyit  is	apprehended that public interest may be	 injured  bytheir disclosure.It is conceded by Mr. Seervai that if the affidavit producedin  support  of	 the  claim for privilege  is  found  to  beunsatisfactory	a further affidavit may be called, and in  aproper case the person making the affidavit whether be is  aMinister or the Secretary should be summoned to face  cross-examination  on the relevant points.  Mr. Seervai,  however,contends  that the object of such cross-examination must  belimited	 to test the credibility of the witness and  nothingmore.	We  do not see why any such a limitation  should  beimposed	 on cross-examination in such a case.  It  would  beopen  to the opponent to put such relevant  and	 permissiblequestions  as  he  may	think  of  to  help  the  Court	  indetermining  whether the document belongs to the  privilegedclass  or not.	It is true that the scope of the enquiry  insuch  a case is bound to be narrow and restricted ; but	 theexistence of the power in the Court to hold such an  enquirywill  itself  act  as a salutary  check	 on  the  capriciousexercise of the power conferred under s. 123; and as some ofthe decisions show the existence of this power is not merelya  matter  of theoretical abstraction  (Vide  for  instance,Ijjat Ali Talukdar v. Emperor (1)).(1) [1944] 1 Cal. 410.393Thus our conclusion is that reading ss.123 and 162  togetherthe Court cannot hold an enquiry into the possible injury topublic interest which may result from the disclosure of	 thedocument  in question.	That is a matter for  the  authorityconcerned to decide; but the Court is competent, and  indeedis  bound, to hold a preliminary enquiry and  determine	 thevalidity  of  the  objections to its  production,  and	thatnecessarily  involves  an enquiry into the  question  as  towhether the evidence relates to an affair of State under  s.123 or not.In this enquiry the Court has to determine the character  orclass  of the document.	 If it comes to the conclusion	thatthe  document  does not relate to affairs of State  then  itshould	reject	the  claim  for	 privilege  and	 direct	 itsproduction.  If it comes to the conclusion that the documentrelates	 to the affairs of State it should leave it  to	 thehead  of the department to decide whether he  should  permitits  production	 or  not.   We	are  not  impressed  by	 Mr.Seervai's argument that the Act could not have intended thatthe head of the department would permit the production of  adocument  which	 belongs  to  the  noxious  class.   In	 ouropinion,  it is quite Conceivable that even in regard  to  adocument  falling within the class of documents relating  toaffairs of State the head of the department may legitimatelytake the view that its disclosure would not cause injury  topublic	interest.  Take for instance the case of a  documentwhich  came  into  existence  quite  some  time	 before	 itsproduction  is called for in litigation; it is not  unlikelythat  the  head of the department may feel that	 though	 thecharacter  of  the document may	 theoretically	justify	 hisrefusing  to  permit its production, at the  time  when	 itsproduction  is	claimed	 no public injury is  likely  to  becaused.	 It is also possible that the head of the departmentmay  feel that the injury to public interest which the	dis-closure of the document may cause is minor or insignificant,indirect or remote; and having regard to the wider extent ofthe  direct injury to the cause of justice which may  resultfrom its non-production he may394decide	 to  permit  its  production.	In  exercising	 hisdiscretion  under  s.  123 in many cases  the  head  of	 thedepartment  may	 have  to weigh the pros  and  cons  of	 theproblem	 and objectively determine the nature and extent  ofthe  injury to public interest as against the	   injury tothe  administration of justice.	 That is why we think it  isnot unreasonable to hold that s. 123 gives discretion to thebead  of  the  department  to permit  the  production  of  adocument  even though its production may theoretically	leadto some kind of injury to public interest.  While construingss. 123 and 162, it would be irrelevant to consider why	 theenquiry as to injury to public interest should not be withinthe jurisdiction of the Court, for that clearly is a  matterof  policy  on	which  the Court does  not  and	 should	 notgenerally express any opinion.In  this connection it is necessary to add that	 the  natureand  scope  of	the enquiry which, in  our  opinion,  it  iscompetent  to  the Court to hold under s. 162  would  remainsubstantially  the same whether we accept the wider  or	 thenarrower  interpretation  of  the  expression  "affairs	  ofState".	  In the former case the Court will  decide  whetherthe  document  falls in the class of  innocuous	 or  noxiousdocuments;  if	it finds that the document  belongs  to	 theinnocuous  class it will direct its production; if it  findsthat the document belongs to the noxious class it will leaveit  to the discretion of the head of the department  whetherto  permit its production or not.  Even on the	narrow	con-struction  of  the expression "affairs of State"  the  Courtwill  determine its character in the first instance;  if  itholds  that it does not fall within the noxious class  whichalone is included in the relevant expression on this view anorder for its production will follow; if the finding is thatit  belongs  to	 the noxious class the	question  about	 itsproduction will be left to the discretion of the head of thedepartment.   We  have already stated how  three  views	 arepossible  on  this  point.  In our  opinion,  Mr.  Seervai'scontention  which  adopts one extreme position	ignores	 theeffect	of  s. 162, whereas the contrary position  which  isalso extreme in character ignores the provisions of s.	123.The view			    395which  we  are	disposed to take  about	 the  authority	 andjurisdiction  of  the Court in such matters is	based  on  aharmonious construction of s. 123 and s. 162 read  together;it recognises the power conferred on the Court by cl. (1) ofs.  162, and also gives due effect to the discretion  vestedin the head of the department by s. 123.It would thus be clear that in view of the provisions of  s.162 the position in India in regard to the Court's power andjurisdiction  is  different  from  the	position  under	 theEnglish	 Law as it obtained in England in 1872.	 It  may  betrue to say that in prohibiting the inspection of  documentsrelating to matters of State the second clause of s. 162  isintended  to repel the minority view of Baron Martin in	 thecase  of Beatson (1).  Nevertheless the effect of the  firstclause	of s. 162 clearly brings out the departure  made  bythe  Indian Law in one material particular, and that is	 theauthority  given to the Court to hold a preliminary  enquiryinto  the character of the document.  That is why  we  thinkthat  the arguments so elaborately and ingeniously built  upby Mr. Seervai on the basis of the background of the  IndianEvidence  Act breaks down in the light of the provisions  ofs. 162.	 We may add that in substance and broadly stated theconsensus  of judicial opinion in this country is in  favourof this conclusion. (Vide: e.g., Kaliappa Udayan v.  Emperor(2); R. M. D. Chamarbaugwala v. Y. R. Parpia (3);  Governor-General	 in Council v. H. Peer Mohd.  Khuda Bux & Ors.	(4);The Public Prosecutor, Andhra v. Venkata Narasayya (5);	 andljjat  Ali Talukdar v. Emperor (6)).  Therefore we think  itis  unnecessary to refer to these decisions in detail or  toexamine	 the  reasons  given  by  them	in  support  of	 theconclusion reached by them.There  are, however, two decisions which have struck a	noteof  dissent, and so it is necessary to examine them.  In  W.S.  Irwin  v. D. J. Reid (7) it appears that the  Court	 wasincidentally dealing with(1)  (1860) 5 H. & N. 838 ; 157 E. R. 1415.(2)  A.I.R. 1937 Mad. 492.(3)  A.I.R. 1950 Bom. 230.(4)  A.I.R. 1950 East Punjab 228.(5)  A.I.R. 1957 Andhra 486.(6)  I.L.R. [1944] 1 Cal- 410.(7)  (192I) I.L.R- 48 Cal. 304-396the scope and effect of s. 123 of the Act.  In that case theplaintiff was one of the members of the committee, known  asthe Champaran Agrarian Enquiry Committee, and as such memberhe had effected a settlement between the indigo planters andthe  tenants	    about  the	partial	  refund of tawan orremission  of  sarabeshi.  The defendant Irwin	wrote  threeletters	 to   the members after the settlement	which  takentogether would import that his consent to the settlement wasobtained  by  misrepresentation	 and  all  facts  were	 notdisclosed to him.  Thereupon Reid filed a suit claiming	 Rs.50,000	as  damages  against  Irwin  for  making  the	saiddefamatory statements which according to him greatly injuredhis  credit and reputation and had brought him	into  publicodium and contempt.  It appears that at the trial an attemptwas made to compel the production of the minutes of the com-mittee.	 The, said attempt failed because the Government  ofBihar and Orissa claimed privilege under s. 123.  In  appealit was urged that the privilege should not have been upheld,but  the  appellant's plea was not accepted  by	 the  Court."The  public officer concerned", observed Mookerjee,  A.  C.J.,  "and  not the judge is to decide whether  the  evidencereferred  to shall be given or withheld.  If any other	viewwere  taken the mischief intended to be avoided	 would	takeplace as the judge could not determine the question  withoutascertaining the contents of the document, and such enquiry,if  it did take place, must, for obvious reasons take  placein  public".  In support of this decision the learned  judgereferred  to  some English decisions; amongst them  was	 thecase  of Beatson v. Skene (1).	It would be noticed that  inmaking	these  incidental  observations the  Court  has	 notconsidered  the	 true effect of the provisions	of  s.	162.Indeed	no  reference was made to the said section  and	 thematter	does  not appear to have been seriously	 argued	 andnaturally,  because  the point was not directly	 raised	 fordecision.  In this connection we ought to point out that  ina  subsequent decision of the said High Court in  Ijjat	 AliTalukdar's case (2) a contrary view has been(1) (1860) 5 H.	    & N. 838: 157 E.R. 1415.(2) I.L.R.  [1944] I Cal. 410.397taken  and it is the subsequent view which has prevailed  inthe Calcutta High Court thereafter.In  Khawaja Nazir Ahmad v. The Crown (1) the High  Court  ofJudicature  at	Lahore	has held that when  a  privilege  isclaimed	 under s. 123 the Court simply gives effect  to	 thedecision  of  the head of the department by adding  its	 owncommand	 to  it but the Court. has no power to	examine	 thedocument   in  order  to  verify  the  correctness  of	 theallegations  or	 the  grounds  on  which  the  privilege  isclaimed.   Abdur Rahman, J., who delivered the	judgment  ofthe  Bench in that case, has considered the relevant  Indianand   English  decisions,  and	has  based  his	  conclusionsubstantially  on  the	judgment of the House  of  Lords  inDuncan	v.  Cammell Laird & Co. Ltd. (2), to which  we	willpresently  refer.   The learned judge appears to  have	con-strued	s. 162 in the manner suggested by Mr.  Seervai.	  Infact Mr. Seervai's argument was that the construction placedby Abdur Rahman, J. on s. 162 had not been considered by theother	Indian	decisions  when	 they  brushed	 aside	 hisconclusion.   "I  feel convinced", said	 Abdur	Rahman,	 J.,"that  the objection as to the production of  the  document,apart  from its admissibility (for want of  registration  orcontravening  the  rule as to when secondary evidence  of  adocument  can be admitted-if the document is merely  a	copyand  not original) can only be decided by its inspection  bythe  Court, followed, as it must necessarily. have been,  byan  order  of production, although not in the sense  of	 itscontents  having been disclosed to the party  summoning	 thedocument  at  any  rate at that	 stage".   We  have  alreadyindicated  our	reasons for not	 accepting  this  artificialconstruction of the second clause in s. 162.  This  decisionalso  has been dissented from by a Full Bench of the  LahoreHigh  Court in Governor-General in Council v. H. Peer  Mohd.Khuda Bux & Ors. (3) and the view taken by the Full Bench inthat case prevails in the Punjab High Court ever since.In  the	 course	 of arguments before us a  large  number  ofEnglish decisions have been cited by the learned(1) (1945) I.L.R. 26 Lah. 219.	  (2) [1942] A.C. 624.	      (3) A.I.R. 1950 East Punjab 228.398counsel	 appearing for both the parties.  Having  regard  tothe fact that our decision ultimately rests, as it must,  onthe  construction of the relevant provisions of the Act,  wedo not think it necessary to refer to all the cases to whichour attention was drawn; we propose to confine ourselves  tothree  decisions which have made a substantial	contributionto the discussion of the problem, and which represent  threedistinct  and  different trends of judicial opinion  on	 thepoint with which we are dealing.The  first case to which we would refer is the	decision  ofthe Privy Council in Robinson v. State of South Australia Inthat case the appellant had brought an action in the SupremeCourt  of  South  Australia  against  the  respondent  Stateclaiming damages for alleged negligence in the care of wheatplaced in the control of the State under the Wheat  HarvestsActs,  1915-17.	 Upon an order for discovery the  respondentState,	by  an affidavit made by a  civil  servant,  claimedprivilege  in  respect	of  1892  documents  tied  in  threebundles,  and  stated  to  be  State  documents	  comprisingcommunications between officers administering the departmentconcerned.  There was exhibited to the affidavit a minute bythe  responsible  Minister  stating, inter  alia,  that	 thedisclosure  of	the  documents	would  be  contrary  to	 theinterests  of  the State and of the public.  The  claim	 forprivilege  had been upheld by the Australian Courts  but  itwas rejected by the Privy Council which held that the minutewas inadequate to support the claim; it was too vague in thecircumstances  of the case, and was not a statement on	oathshowing that the Minister had himself considered each of thedocuments, or indicating the nature of the suggested  injuryto  the	 interests  of	the  public.   The  Privy   Council,therefore,   directed  that  the  Supreme  Court  of   SouthAustralia should exercise its power under O. 31, r. 14, sub-r.  (2), to inspect the documents, because it  thought	thatthe said course was less likely to cause delay than an orderfor  a	further	 and better  affidavit	of  documents.	 Thelitigation  in	that  case  had	 been  preceded	 by  anotherlitigation, and on the(1) [1931] A.C. 704.399facts  thus disclosed the Privy Council was  satisfied	thatthe action in question was one of a large number which	werethen  pending,	and  against  which  a	similar	 relief	 wasclaimed,  all  being alike dependent for  success  upon	 theestablishment of the same facts.  That is how full discoveryby  the respondent had become "the immediately	vital  issuebetween the parties".Dealing	 with the merits of the privilege the Privy  Councilcited with approval Taylor's observation that "the principleof  the	 rule is concern for public interest, and  the	rulewill  accordingly be applied no further than the  attainmentof   that  object  requires"(1).   Lord	  Blanesburgh,	 whodelivered the judgment of the Board observed that "it cannotbe assumed that documents relating to trading, commercial orcontractual activities of the State can never be claimed  tobe  protected  under this head of privilege", but  he  addedthat  "the  cases in which this is so must, in view  of	 thesole  object  of the privilege, and especially	in  time  ofpeace,	be rare indeed".  Then he referred to the fact	thatin view of the increasing extension of State activities intothe  spheres  of trading business and commerce, and  of	 theclaim  of privilege in relation to the	liabilities  arisingtherefrom which were frequently put forward, it is necessaryfor  the  Courts  to  remember that  while  they  must	dulysafeguard genuine public interests they must see to it	thatthe  scope  of	the  admitted  privilege  is  not,  in	suchlitigation,  extended.	 The judgment then proceeds  to	 addthat in truth the fact that documents if produced might haveany  such effect upon the fortunes of the litigation  is  ofitself a compelling reason for their production-one only  tobe  overborne by the gravest considerations of State  policyor  security.  Then the power of the Court to call  for	 theproduction of documents for which privilege was claimed	 wasexamined  in  the light of previous decisions,	and  in	 thelight  of  the	provisions  of O. 31,  r.  14,	sub-r.	(2)."Where, as in the present case", it was observed, "the Stateis  not	 only  sued  as defendant  under  the  authority  ofstatute,  but is in the suit bound to give discovery,  thereseems little, if any,(1) Taylor on "Evidence", s.939.400reason why the Court in relation to this privileged class ofits  documents	should have any less power than	 it  has  toinspect	 any  other  privileged	 class	of  its	  documents,provided  of course, that such power be exercised so as	 notto  destroy the protection of the privilege in any  case  inwhich it is found to exist".  The procedure which should  beadopted	 in claiming the privilege was then considered,	 andit was held that the affidavit produced, which in its  sweepcovered	 no fewer than 1892 documents in number, was of	 thevaguest	 generality and as such unsatisfactory.	  The  PrivyCouncil then considered the question as to whether a furtheropportunity  should be given to the State to make  a  betteraffidavit  but	it thought that it would be  inexpedient  toadopt  such  a	course because	it  ,would  involve  furtherserious	 delay, "without, it may be, advancing	any  furtherthe  final solution to the question at issue".	That is	 whythe Supreme Court was asked to exercise its power under	 therelevant  rule	to  inspect the documents  and	then  decidewhether	 the  privilege	 should be upheld  or  not.   It  issignificant  that  even when giving such a  direction  theirLordships  took the precaution of adding that the judge,  ingiving	his decision as to any document, will be careful  tosafeguard  the	interest of the State and will not,  in	 anycase  of doubt, resolve the doubt against the State  withoutfurther	 enquiry from the Minister.  It only remains to	 addthat  so  far as Australia is concerned it does	 not  appearthat  there is any statutory provision corresponding  to  s.162  of	 the  Act,  and so, even  after	 this  judgment	 waspronounced  by the Privy Council, Courts in India  have	 notgiven effect to the operative part of the order in regard tothe  inspection of the document by Courts having  regard  tothe statutory prohibition imposed by s. 162 in that behalf.This  pronouncement  of the Privy Council  was	subsequentlycriticised by the House of Lords in Duncan & Anr. v. CammellLaird & Co. Ltd. (1).  It appears that the submarine  Thetiswhich  had been built up by the respondents  under  contractwith  the Admiralty was undergoing her submergence tests  inLiverpool Bay, and, while engaged in the operation of a			    401trial drive, sank to the bottom owing to the flooding of hertwo  foremost  compartments  and failed	 to  return  to	 thesurface	 with  the result that all who were in	her,  exceptfour survivors were overwhelmed.  This unfortunate  accidentgave  rise  to	a  large  number  of  actions  against	 therespondents  for damages for negligence.  Pending the  trialof  the	 said  claims the  plaintiffs  wanted  discovery  ofcertain	  specified  documents	to  which   the	  defendantsobjected, and the objection of the defendants was  supportedby Mr. Alexander who was the First Lord of the Admiralty 'inhis  affidavit	made in that behalf.  The documents  to	 theproduction  of which an objection was thus  raised  included(either in original or as a copy) the contract for the	hulland  machinery of the Thetis and other letters and  reports.The  Master before whom the objection was raised refused  toorder  inspection.  His decision was confirmed	by  Hilbery,J., sitting in Chambers, and the Court of Appeal unanimouslyconfirmed the judge's order.  The plaintiffs, however,	weregiven leave to appeal to the House of Lords; that is how thematter reached the House of Lords.Viscount  Simon, L. C., who pronounced a composite  judgmenton behalf of himself and on behalf of Lord Thankerton,	LordRussel of Killowen and Lord Clauson, exhaustively consideredthe whole law on the subject of Crown Privilege; and in	 hisspeech he made the categorical statement that in his opinionthe  Privy Council was mistaken in regarding the  Australianrule of procedure as having any application to the  subject-matter and in ordering the inspection of the documents whichwere  in question before the Privy Council.  Viscount  Simonbegan  his  speech with the consideration  of  the  previousdecisions of the House of Lords, and held that the matter insubstance was concluded by previous authorities in favour ofupholding  the objections.  He observed that the common	 lawprinciple  is  well established that, where the Crown  is  aparty  to a suit, discovery of documents cannot be  demandedfrom  it  as  a matter of right,  though  in  practice,	 forreasons of fairness and. in the51402interests  of justice, all proper disclosure and  productionwould  be  made.   As a result of  the	examination  of	 theseveral decisions Viscount Simon deduced the principle whichhas  to be applied in such cases in these words:  "Documentsotherwise  relevant  and liable to production  must  not  beproduced if the public interest requires that they should bewithheld.   This test may 'be found to be  satisfied  either(a)  by	 having	 regard to the contents	 of  the  particulardocument, or (b) by the fact that the document belongs to  aclass which, on grounds of public interest, must as a  classbe with held from production".	In this connection he statedthat public interest may be damnified where disclosure wouldbe  injurious  to national defence, or	to  good  diplomaticrelations,  or	where  the practice of keeping	a  class  ofdocuments secret is necessary for the proper functioning  ofthe  public  service.	Then he	 proceeded  to	examine	 thequestion  as to whether when objection has been	 duly  takenthe judge should treat it as conclusive; and his answer	 wasthat an objection validly taken to production on the  groundthat   this  would  be	injurious  to  public  interest	  isconclusive;  but, of course, he proceeded to make  pertinentobservations  for  the guidance of those who  are  entrustedwith  the power to make a claim.  It would be  noticed	thateven this decision would not be of material assistance to usbecause,  as  we have repeatedly pointed out,  our  decisionmust  ultimately rest on the relevant  statutory  provisionscontained in the Indian Evidence Act; and so, the conclusionthat a valid certificate issued by the Minister in charge isconclusive  may	 not be strictly applicable to a  claim	 forprivilege  similarly made by a Minister in charge in  India.As  we	have  already  indicated,  the	preliminary  enquirycontemplated by the first clause of s. 162 has to be held bythe Court, and it is after the Court has found in favour  ofthe character of the document pleaded by the State that	 theoccasion  arises for the head of the department to  exercisehis  discretion conferred by s. 123.  Incidentally,  we	 maypoint out that Lord Thankerton and Lord Russel of  Killowen,who were parties to this			    403decision,  were	 also parties to the decision of  the  PrivyCouncil in the case of Robinson (1).In regard to the decisions in the cases of Robinson (1)	 andDuncan (2 ) respectively, it may be permissible to make	 onegeneral observation.  In both these cases the nature of	 thedocuments for which privilege was claimed, the time at whichthe  dispute arose and the other  surrounding  circumstanceswere very unusual and special though in different ways,	 andso, as often happens, the shift in emphasis from one  aspectof  the	 same principle to another and the  strong  languageused  took  colour  from the nature of	the  special  facts.Incidentally  we  may  also add that  the  epilogue  to	 thedecision  in Robinson's case (1) illustrates  what  untowardconsequences  may  follow from an-erroneous  decision  or  amiscalculation as to the injury to public interest which maybe caused by disclosure.*Nearly	five years after the judgment in Duncan's  case	 (2)was  pronounced, the Crown Proceedings Act (10 & 11 Geo.  6,c.  44)	 was  passed  in  1947,	 and  the  Crown   Privilegerecognised under the common law of England is now  regulatedby  s.	28  of the said Act.  Section 28  which	 deals	withdiscovery provides in substance that subject to the rules ofcourt in any civil proceedings there specified the Crown maybe required by the Court to make discovery of documents	 andproduce	  documents  for  inspection,  and  that   in	suchproceedings  the  Crown	 may  also  be	required  to  answerinterrogatories.   This legislative invasion of the  Crown'sprerogative  is,  however, subject to the proviso  that	 thesaid  section shall be without prejudice to any rule of	 lawwhich authorises or requires the withholding of any documentor the refusal to answer any question on the ground that thedisclosure of the document or the answering of the  questionwould be injurious to public interest.	It would be  noticedthat  s.  28  read with the proviso confers  on	 the  Courtsspecified by it powers which are much narrower than(1) [1931] A.C. 704.		 (2) [1942] A.C. 624.*For a graphic account of the aftermath of the enquiry	heldby  the	 Supreme Court of South Australia, pursuant  to	 thePrivy  Council's decision in Robinsons's case (i), see	"Lawand Orders" by Sir C. K. Allen, 2nd Ed.,P.   374,  foot-note5a.404those which are conferred on the Indian Courts undercl. 1 of s. 162 of the Act.In  the	 decision in Duncan's case (1)	Viscount  Simon	 hadassumed	 that the law as laid down by the said decision	 wasequally	 applicable to Scotland.  This assumption  has	beenseriously  challenged  by another decision of the  House  ofLords in Glasgow Corporation v. Central Land Board (2).	  Inthat case Viscount Simonds has referred to a large number ofearlier	 decisions  dealing with the relevant law as  it  isadministered  in Scotland and commented on the	decision  inDuncan's  case	(1) by saying that the observations  in	 thesaid  case, in so far as they relate to the law of  Scotlandmust  be  regarded as obiter dicta.  "In the course  of	 thepresent	 appeal",  added  Lord Simonds,	 "we  have  had	 theadvantage  of an exhaustive examination of the relevant	 lawfrom the earliest times, and it has left me in no doubt thatthere always has been, and is now, in the law of Scotland aninherent  power	 of  the  Court	 to  override  the   Crown'sobjections to produce documents on the ground that it  wouldinjure the public interest to do so", though he added that "very  rarely  in recent times has this inherent	 right	beenexercised".  Lord Radcliffe, who agreed with the  conclusionof the House with some reluctance, has made strong  commentson  the plea of privilege which is raised on behalf  of	 theCrown in such matters.	Adverting to the contention that thepublic	interest  may be injured by the	 production  of	 thedocument  Lord Radcliffe observed that more than one  aspectof the public interest may have to be surveyed in  reviewingthe question whether a document which would be available  toa party in a civil suit between private parties is not to beavailable  to  the party engaged in a suit with	 the  Crown.According  to  Lord  Radcliffe it was  not  unreasonable  toexpect	that  the Court would be better qualified  than	 theMinister  to  measure the importance of such  principles  inapplication to the particular case that is before it.  It ison that assumption that the Scottish Law has reserved to theCourts the duty of making some assessment of the relative(1) [1942] A.C. 624.  (2) (1956) Soots Law Times Reports 41.			    405claims	of  the different aspects of public  interest  whereproduction of a document is objected to by the Crown.  Then,in  his characteristic style Lord Radcliffe has observed  "Ishould think it a very great pity indeed if a power of	thiskind, a valuable power, came to be regarded as a mere  ghostof  theory  having no practical substance,  and	 the  Courtsabdicated  by  disuse in the twentieth century	a  right  ofcontrol	 which their predecessors in the  earlier  centurieshave  been insistent to assert".  The learned law  Lord	 hasalso made some strong comment on the formula which has	beenevolved	 by  Viscount Simon in Duncan's case  (1),  and	 hadstated,	  that	 the  phrase  "necessary  for	the   properfunctioning of the public service" is a familiar one, and  Ihave a misgiving that it may become all too familiar in	 thefuture".  The result of this decision appears to be that  inScotland,  where  the  common  law  doctrine  of  the  CrownPrivilege  is  not  strictly enforced, a  privilege  can  beclaimed	 by the Minister on grounds set forth by him in	 hisaffidavit.  The certificate would be treated as very  strongpresumptive  evidence of the claim made but the Court  wouldnevertheless  have  inherent  power  to	 override  the	saidcertificate.  It is unnecessary for us to consider the	truenature	and  effect of this power because in India  in	thisparticular  matter we are governed by the provisions  of  s.162  which confer power on Courts to determine the  validityof the objection raised under s. 123, and so there would  beno occasion or justification to exercise any inherent power.Though we do not propose to refer to the other decisions  towhich our attention was invited, we may incidentally observethat the decision in Duncan's case (1) has been followed  byEnglish	 Courts,  but  sometimes  the  learned	judges	haveexpressed  a sense of dissatisfaction when they	 are  calledupon  to  decide  an individual dispute in  the	 absence  ofrelevant and material documents. (Vide: Ellis v. Home Office(2)).  Before we part with this topic we may also  indicate,that  it  appears  that	 in the	 long  history	of  reportedjudicial decisions only on three occasions the right to(1) [1942] A.C. 624.	  (2) [1953] 2 All E. R. 149.406inspect documents has been either theoretically asserted  oractually  exercised in England.	 In Hennessy v. Wright	(1),Field, J., observed that he would consider himself  entitledto  examine  privately the documents to	 the  production  ofwhich the Crown objected, and to endeavour by this means andthat  of  questions addressed to the objector  to  ascertainwhether	 the fear of injury to public service was  the	realmotive in objecting.  In point of fact, however, the learnedJudge  did not inspect the documents.  From the judgment  ofthe Court of Appeal in Asiatic Petroleum Co., Ltd. v. Anglo-Persian Oil Co., Ltd. (2), it appears that Scrutton, J., hadinspected  the	documents  to the  production  of  which  anobjection was raised.  The learned judge has, however, addedthat  having  seen  the	 documents  he	thought	 that	the.government  may be right in the view that they ought not  tobe  produced to others, and that he would not take the	res-ponsibility  of	 ordering them to be  produced	against	 thewishes	of the government.  In Spigelmann v. Hocker  &	Anr.(3),   Macnaghten,  J.,	 inspected  the	 document   to	 theproduction of which an objection was raised.  The result  ofthese  decisions  is  that in England  a  valid	 certificateissued	by the Minister in support of the privilege  claimedis  conclusive; while in Scotland, though it would  normallybe treated as such, Courts reserve to themselves an inherentright to revise or review the certificate in a proper case.It now remains to consider whether the High Court was  rightin  holding that the privilege claimed by the  appellant  inrespect of the four documents in question was not justified,and that takes us to the consideration of the relevant factsin the present appeal.	The documents of which discovery andinspection   were   claimed  are  thus	described   by	 therespondent:(1)  Original order passed by Pepsu Government on  September28,  1955,  on	the  representation  dated  May	 18,   1955,submitted by Sodhi Sukhdev Singh;(2)  Original order passed by the Pepsu Government(1) (1888) 21 Q.B. 509.	    (2) [1916] 1 K.B. 822.(3) (1933-34) 1 Times L.R. 87.407on  March  8/9,	 1956, reaffirming the	decision  passed  onSeptember 28, 1955, referred to above;(3)  Original order passed by the Pepsu Government in  theircabinet	 Meeting  dated	 August	 11,  1956,  revising  theirprevious order on the representation of Sodhi Sukhdev  Singhdated May 18, 1955; and(4)  Report   of  the  Public  Service	Commission  on	 therepresentation	of Sodhi Sukhdev Singh dated May  18,  1955,after the Pepsu Government's decision on September 28, 1955.In  dealing  with this question and in reversing  the  orderpassed	by the trial court by which the privilege  had	beenupheld, the High Court has purported to apply the definitionof the expression "affairs of State" evolved by Khosla,	 J.,as  he then was, in the case of Governor-General in  Councilv.  H. Peer Mohd. Khuda Bux & Ors. (1): "It  is,  therefore,sufficiently  clear",  said  the learned  judge,  "that	 theexpression  "affairs  of  State" as used in  s.	 123  has  arestricted meaning, and on the weight of authority, both  inEngland	 and  in this country, I would	define	"affairs  ofState"	as matters of a public nature in which the State  isconcerned,  and the disclosure of which will be	 prejudicialto  the public interest or injurious to national defence  ordetrimental  to	 good  diplomatic relations".	It  is	thisdefinition  which  was criticised by Aft.   Seervai  on	 theground	that  it purported to describe	the  genus,  namely,affairs of State, solely by reference to the characteristicsof  one of its species, namely, documents  whose  disclosurewas  likely  to	 cause injury to  public  interest.   Havingadopted this definition the High Court proceeded to  examinewhether	 any injury would result from the disclosure of	 thedocuments, and came to the conclusion that it was  difficultto  sustain  the plea that the production of  the  documentswould  lead  to	 any  of  the  injuries	 specified  in	 thedefinition  evolved  by Khosla, J. On this ground  the	HighCourt allowed the contention of the respondent and  directedthe State to produce the documents in question.We have already held that in dealing with the(1)  A.I.R. 1950 East Punjab 228.408question  of privilege raised under s. 123 it is not a	partof the Court's jurisdiction to decide whether the disclosureof  the	 given document would lead to any injury  to  publicinterest;,  that is a matter for the head of the  departmentto  consider  and  decide.   We	 have  also  held  that	 thepreliminary  enquiry  where the character of  the  documentsfalls  to  be  considered is  within  the  jurisdiction	 andcompetence  of the Court, and we have indicated	 how  withinthe narrow limits prescribed by the second clause of a.	 162such  an  enquiry  should be conducted.	  In  view  of	thisconclusion we must hold that the High Court was in error  intrying	to enquire into the consequences of the	 disclosure;we may add that the decision of the High Court suffers	fromthe  additional	 infirmity that the said  enquiry  has	beenconfined  only to the specified classes of injury  specifiedby Khosla, J., in his definition which cannot be treated  asexhaustive.   That  being  so, we  think  the  appellant  isjustified  in  complaining  against  the  validity  of	 thedecision of the High Court.Let  us then consider whether the documents in	question  doreally	fall  within the category of documents	relating  to"affairs of State".  Three of the documents the discovery ofwhich  the  respondent	claimed are  described	as  originalorders	passed by the Pepsu Cabinet on the three  respectivedates.	It is difficult to understand what was exactly meantby  describing the said documents as original orders  passedon those dates; but quite apart from it the very descriptionof  the documents clearly indicates that they are  documentsrelating  to  the discussions that took	 place	amongst	 themembers	 of  the Council of Ministers  and  the	 provisionalconclusions  reached by them in regard to  the	respondent'srepresentation	from  time to time.   Without  knowing	moreabout the contents of the said documents it is impossible toescape the conclusion that these documents would embody	 theminutes	 of  the meetings of the Council  of  Ministers	 andwould indicate the advice which the Council ultimately	gaveto  the Rajpramukh.  It is hardly necessary to	recall	thatadvice given by the			  409Cabinet to the Rajpramukh or the Governor is expressly savedby  Art. 163, sub-art. (3), of the Constitution; and in	 thecase  of  such	advice	no  further  question  need  to	  beconsidered.  The same observation falls to be made in regardto  the advice tendered by the Public Service Commission  tothe  Council of Ministers.  Indeed it is very  difficult  toimagine	 how  advice  thus tendered by	the  Public  ServiceCommission  can be excluded from the protection afforded  bys. 123 of the Act.  Mr. Gopal Singh attempted to argue	thatbefore	the final order was passed the Council of  Ministershad decided to accept the respondent's representation and toreinstate  him, and that, according to him,  the  respondentseeks  to prove by calling the two original orders.  We	 areunable to understand this argument.  Even if the Council  ofMinisters   had	 provisionally	decided	 to  reinstate	 therespondent   that  would  not  prevent	the   Council	fromreconsidering the matter and coming to a contrary conclusionlater  on, until a final decision is reached by them and  iscommunicated  to  the Rajpramukh in the form of	 advice	 andacted upon by him by issuing an order in that behalf to	 therespondent.   Until the final order is thus communicated  tothe  respondent it would be open to the Council to  considerthe  matter  over  and over again, and the  fact  that	theyreached provisional conclusions on two occasions in the pastwould not alter the character of the said conclusions.	 Thesaid  conclusions, provisional in character, are a  part  ofthe  proceedings  of the Council of Ministers and  no  more.The  report received by the Council from the Public  ServiceCommission  carries on its face the character of a  documentthe  disclosure	 of  which would lead to  injury  of  publicinterest.   It	falls in that class of	document  which	 "ongrounds of public interest must as a class be withheld	fromproduction".   Therefore,  in our  opinion,  the  conclusionappears	 inescapable  that  the documents  in  question	 areprotected  under s. 123, and if the head of  the  departmentdoes  not  give permission for their production,  the  Courtcannot compel the appellant to produce them.  We should have52410stated	that the two affidavits made by the Chief  Secretaryin  support of the plea of the claim of privilege  satisfiedthe  requirements which we have laid down in  our  judgment,and  no comment can be effectively made against	 them.	 Theargument  that in its pleadings the appellant  accepted	 thedescription  of the respondent that the	 document  containedorders is hardly relevant or material.	The affidavits	showwhat  these  documents purport to be and that leads  to	 theinference which irresistibly follows from the very  descrip-tion of the documents given by the respondent himself in hisapplication  by	 which he called for  their  production	 andinspection.Before we part with this appeal we may incidentally refer toanother	 point which was argued at some length before us  byboth  the learned counsel for interveners.   Mr.  ViswanathaSastri	contended  that	 the provisions of  s.	162  can  beinvoked only where a witness has been summoned to produce  adocument and a privilege is claimed by him in respect of it.According to him the said provisions cannot be invoked wherethe Court is called upon to decide the validity of the claimof  privilege at the stage of inspection of  the  documents.In  other words, where the State is a party to the suit	 andan  application for inspection of documents is made  againstit by its opponent, and a claim for privilege is put forwardby the State, the Court is entitled under 0. 11, r. 19, sub-a. (2), to inspect the documents for the purpose of decidingas  to the validity of the claim of privilege.	That is	 theclear  provision of 0. 11, r. 19, sub-r. (2), and the  powerconferred on the Court by the said provision is not  subjectto  s. 162 of the Act.	This position is seriously  disputedby Mr.	Seervai.The  procedural law in regard to discovery,  production	 andinspection  of documents is contained in 0. 11, rr. 12,	 21.It  is true that 0. 11, r. 19, sub-r. (2) provides  that  indealing	 with a claim of privilege "it shall be	 lawful	 forthe  Court  to	inspect	 the document  for  the	 purpose  ofdeciding  the  validity	 of the claim  of  privilege".	 Thequestion is, what is the effect of this provision when it isconsidered along with s. 162 of the Act ?			    411Before	briefly indicating our conclusion on this  point  wemay  observe  that this contention does not appear  to	havebeen raised in any judicial decisions to which our attentionwas drawn.  Indeed it appears generally to have been assumedthat in the matter of deciding a claim for privilege made bythe  State the provisions of s. 162 of the Act	would  applywhether	 the  said  claim is made at the  earlier  stage  ofinspection  or	later when evidence  is	 formally  tendered.That, however, is another matter.It  is true that s. 162 in terms refers to a witness who  issummoned  to  produce  a  document  and	 provides  for	 theprocedure  which  should  be adopted and  the  powers  whichshould	be exercised in dealing with a privilege claimed  bysuch a witness; but there is no doubt that the provisions ofthe Act are intended to apply to all judicial proceedings inor before any Court; that in terms is the result of s. 1  ofthe  Act, and the proceedings before the Court under 0.	 11,r. 19, are judicial proceedings to which prima facie s.	 162would.	apply.	Similarly, s. 4, sub-s. (1), of the Code  ofCivil Procedure provides, inter alia, that in the absence ofany specific provisions to the contrary nothing in the	Codeshall be deemed to limit or otherwise affect any special  orlocal  law in force; that is to say, in the absence  of	 anyprovisions  to the contrary the Evidence Act would apply  toall the proceedings governed by the Code.  Besides, it wouldbe very strange that a claim for privilege to which 0. 1  1,r.  19 sub-r. (2), refers is allowed to be raised  under  a.123 of the Act, whereas, the procedure prescribed by the Actin dealing with such a claim by s. 162 is inapplicable.	  Ifs.  123 of the Act applies and a claim for privilege can  beraised	under it, prima facie there is no reason why s.	 162should not likewise apply.But  apart  from these general considerations  the  relevantscheme of the Code of Civil Procedure itself indicates	thatthere is no substance in the argument raised by Mr.  Sastri.Order  27 prescribes the procedure which has to	 be  adoptedwhere  suits  are  filed by ,or against	 the  government;  aplaint	or  written statement proposed to be  filed  by	 thegovernment has to be412signed	under r. 1 by such person as the government  may  bygeneral or special order appoint in that behalf, which meansthat  the  government can only act through  its	 agent	dulyappointed in that behalf.  The Minister who is the politicalhead  of  the  department  or  the  Secretary  who  is	 itsadministrative	head is not the government; and so  wheneverthe  government sues or is sued and makes its  pleadings  italways acts through its duly authorised agents.	 The  schemeof  the	 relevant  rules of 0. 27 is  consistent  with	thisposition.Section 30 of the Code empowers the Court either on its	 ownmotion or on an application of a party to issue summonses topersons whose attendance is required either to give evidenceor  produce  document,	and to order that any  fact  may  beproved	by an affidavit.  Order 4, r. 5, contemplates  that,at  the	 time  of  issuing the summons,	 the  Court  has  todetermine  whether the summons should be for the  settlementof  issues only or for the final disposal of the  suit;	 andthe relevant form of the summons (No.  1 in First  Schedule,Appendix  B)  shows that in the case of a suit	against	 thegovernment of a State a summons can be issued to compel	 theattendance  of	any  witness  and  the	production  of	 anydocument.   This  shows that where the State is	 a  party  asummons	 may  have to be issued to its	appropriate  officercalling	 upon him to produce the documents  for	 inspection.The  provisions	 of  rr. 14, 15 and 16 of 0.  11  show	thataffidavits  have to be filed by the parties, and the  filingof affidavits which is permitted by 0. 19 is undoubtedly onemode  of giving evidence.  Order 16, r. 1, provides for	 theissue  of a summons to persons whose attendance is  requiredinter alia to produce documents; and r. 21 of the said orderexpressly  provides  that  where  any party  to	 a  suit  isrequired  to  give  evidence or to produce  a  document	 theprovisions as to witnesses shall apply to him so far as	 areapplicable.   Thus  there can be little doubt that  where  aprivilege  is  claimed at the stage of	inspection  and	 theCourt  is  required  to adjudicate upon	 its  validity,	 therelevant provisions of the Act413under  which  the privilege is claimed as well as  the	pro-visions	 of s. 162 which deal with the manner in  which	 thesaid privilege has to be considered are equally	 applicable;and if the Court is precluded from inspecting the privilegeddocument  under	 the  second  clause  of  s.  162  the	saidprohibition  would apply as much to a privilege	 claimed  bythe  State through its witness at the trial as	a  privilegesimilarly' claimed by it at the stage of inspection.  It  ishardly	necessary  to point out that a contrary	 vie*  wouldlead  to  this manifestly unreasonable result  that  at	 thestage  of  inspection the document can be inspected  by	 theCourt,	but  not at the subsequent stage of trial.   In	 ouropinion,  the provisions of 0. 11, r. 19, sub-r. (2),  must,therefore, be read subject to s. 162 of the Act.The  result is that the appeal is allowed, the order  passedby  the	 High Court set aside and that of  the	trial  courtrestored with costs throughout.KAPUR,	J.-I have read the judgment prepared by	 my  learnedbrother	 Gajendragadkar, J., and agree with  the  conclusionbut  in my opinion the Court cannot take other	evidence  inregard	to  the nature of document, for which  privilege  isclaimed, and my reasons are these:In  India  the	law  of	 privilege  in	regard	to  officialdocuments is contained in s. 123 of the Indian Evidence	 Actwhich  has to be read with s. 162 of that Act.	The  variouskinds  of  privileges claimable under the Evidence  Act	 arecontained in Chapter IX, two sections amongst these are	 ss.123  and  126,	the  former  dealing  with  state  privilegerelating   to  "affairs	 of  State"  and  the  latter	withcommunications with a legal adviser.  In s. 123 the  openingwords are "no one shall be permitted " and in the latter "nobarrister etc., shall at any time be permitted In the  othersections  dealing with privilege the opening words  are	 "noperson	shall  be  compelled  This  difference	in  languageindicates  that	 the  legislature  intended  to	 place	 theprivilege of the State in regard to official documents on  adifferent   footing  than-the  other  forms  of	  privilegesmentioned in the414Act  in so far as it put a ban on the court  permitting	 anyevidence of the kind mentioned in. s. 123 from being  given,so  that if, unwittingly any evidence mentioned therein	 wassought to be given, the court would not permit it unless theother conditions were satisfied.In  s. 123 the provision is against the giving	of  evidencewhich is derived from unpublished official records  relatingto  any	 affairs  of  State except  when  the  head  of	 thedepartment concerned in his discretion gives permission	 forthe   evidence	to  be	given.	 The  important	 words	 are"derived",  "unpublished" and "affairs of State".  The	word"derived"  means  coming  out of the  source  and  thereforerefers	to  original  as  well	as  secondary  evidence	  ofdocuments   whether  oral  or  documentary.   The  words   "unpublished  official  records" are not	 very  difficult  ofinterpretation	and  must depend upon the  circumstances  ofeach  case.   If the record is shown to	 have  already	beenpublished,  it ceases to be an unpublished record.  But	 thedifficulty arises as to the meaning of the words "affairs ofState",	 because  the ban is put on  evidence  derived	fromofficial  documents  relating to affairs of State.   At	 thetime  when the Indian Evidence Act was enacted,	 affairs  ofState were confined to governmental or political  activitiesof  Government, but with the expanding of the activities  ofthe  State,  which, because of the changed  concept  of	 theState,	 comprise   also   socioeconomic,   commercial	 andindustrial  activities	the words "affairs  of	State"	mustnecessarily  have  a much wider meaning than  it  originallyhad.  But the language of the sections remains the same	 andso  also  the limitation on the giving of  evidence  derivedfrom such documents and therefore what was considered to  bewithin	the  discretion	 of the head of	 the  department  todisclose  or  not  to  disclose	 still	remains	 within	 hisdiscretion  and	 merely	 because  the  scope  of  the  words"affairs  of  State" had been extended, the  extent  of	 thediscretion  has not thereby decreased or become limited	 andthe words "who shall give or withhold such permission as  hethinks	fit" indicate that the discretion to remove the	 banvests in the head of the department and no one else.415The  real  difficulty arises in the  interpretation  of	 thewords  "affairs	 of  State".  What are	they?	How  is	 themeaning	 of the words to be determined and by whom?  When  aclaim  is  made by a proper authority in a proper  form,  isthat  conclusive  of the nature of the document or  has	 thecourt  to proceed to determine the efficacy of the claim  bytaking other evidence as to its nature or the effect of	 itsdisclosure.  It was contended that the decision, whether thedocument   belongs  to	the  category  falling	within	 theexpression "affairs of State" or not has to be of the  courtand not of the official mentioned in the section.  In a	 waythat is correct because the conduct of the trial must alwaysremain in the hands of the court but what is implied in	 thecontention  raised  was	 that the court	 must  first  decidewhether	 the document belongs to the class comprised in	 theexpression   "affairs  of  State"  and	then  the   officialconcerned  may	give or withhold his consent.  It  was	alsosubmitted that in order to enable the court to determine thevalidity  of the claim of privilege the official  concerned,when  making the claim, may have to state the nature of	 thedocument or at least the nature of the injury to the  publicinterests or to the efficient working of the public service,as the case may be, which the disclosure of the document  orevidence derived therefrom would result in.Section	 162 of the Evidence Act was relied upon in  supportof  the	 above	contention.  That  section  applies  to	 alldocuments in regard to which claim of privilege of any	kindmay  be	 claimable including that falling under s.  123	 andtherefore the language of s. 162 had necessarily to be wide.It has been described as not being clear by Bose, J., as  hethen  was, in Bhaiya Saheb v. Ram Nath	Bampratap  Bhadupote(1).   The section requires a witness summoned to produce  adocument to bring it to the court in spite of any  objectionwhich he may take to it& production or to its  admissibilityand the court is empowered to decide both the questions.  Itis  the	 next part which is relied upon in  support  of	 thecontention that the court can(1)  I.L.R. [1940] Nag. 240, 247.416take  other  evidence  to  decide  both	 the  questions	  ofproduction and the question of admissibility.  The words are"the court, if it sees fit may inspect the document,  unlessit  refers to matters of State,. or take other	evidence  toenable it to determine on its admissibility".  It was arguedthat  this part of the section empowered the court  to	takeother	evidence  not  only  to	 decide	 the   question	  ofadmissibility of the document but also its production.	 Thelanguage  of this part of the section does not lend  supportto this contention because it gives discretion to the  courtto inspect the document or take other evidence to enable  itto  determine  the  admissibility  of  the  document.	 Theinterposing  of	 the words "unless it refers to	 matters  ofState",	 has  reference	 to  privilege	under  s.  123	 andtherefore it disentitles the court to inspect the  document.The  sequence  envisaged by the section is  that  a  witnesssummoned  to produce a document is bound to bring it to	 thecourt.	 He may then take objection to its production  underany  of the sections, viz., 121 to 131 or he may  object  toits  admissibility  and	 both these objections	have  to  bedecided	 by  the court.	 Then comes the second part  of	 thesection.  If the document refers to "matters of State"-thereis  no distinction in the meaning of the word "matters"	 and"affairs  of  State"-then  the court  may  not	inspect	 thedocument, but if the document is not of that class, then thecourt  can inspect it and if it finds any objection  to	 theadmissibility,	it may take other evidence to determine	 itsadmissibility.	 To take a concrete case, if a	document  isproduced which is compulsorily registerable and it is not soregistered, it would not be admissible in evidence under  s.49  of the Registration Act, but evidence may be led  as  toits admissibility for certain purposes, e.g., s. 53-A of theTransfer  of  Property Act.  If it refers to that  class  ofdocuments   then  the  second,	part  of  s.   162   becomesapplicable, i.e., the, court may inspect the document  whichwill  help  it	in deciding the question  of  privilege	 andadmissibility.	But if a claim is properly made by a  properofficial  on the ground that it refers to matters of  State,the  court will stay its hands and refrain  from  inspectingit.			    417The  words  "or to take...... its  admissibility"  on  theirplain  language do not apply to production and	consequentlythe   taking  of  evidence  must  have	reference   to	 theadmissibility of the document.All the High Courts in India are in accord that the  Supremecourt will not inspect the document if it relates to mattersof  State.  If that is so it would be difficult	 to  sustainthe  contention that it can decide the question whether	 thematter	relates or does not relate to affairs of State.	  Ifthe  original cannot be inspected, no other evidence can  beproduced as to its contents.  The effect of this prohibitionis not only as if the document had been destroyed, but as ifit never existed.  If that is the position, then it  becomesdifficult  to see how the question of its production can  bedecided	 by  the court by taking other evidence or  how	 thecourt can decide whether a particular document falls  withinthe  prohibition imposed by s. 123 of the Evidence Act.	  Inthis  connection  the  words of Lord  Kinnear  in  The	LordCommissioner  of the Admiralty v. Aberdeen Steam Trawling  &Fishing	 Co.,  Ltd. (1) are quite apposite.   It  was  theresaid:"I think it is not improbable that even if an officer of thedepartment  were  examined as a witness, we should  not	 getfurther forward, because the same reasons which induced	 thedepartment  to	say that the report itself ought not  to  beproduced  might be thought to preclude the  department	fromgiving explanation required".If  the court cannot inspect the document, if  no  secondaryevidence  can  be  given  as to	 its  contents	and  if	 thenecessary  materials  and  the	circumstances  which   wouldindicate the injury to the public interests or detriment  tothe proper functioning of the services cannot be before	 thecourt  it  cannot  be in a position to	decide	whether	 thedocument relates to affairs of State or not and the  logicalconclusion  would  be  that  the  court	 is  debarred	fromoverruling  the	 discretion of the head	 of  the  departmentconcerned,   because  the  court  cannot  say  whether	 thedisclosure  or non-disclosure would be detrimental  or	not.If, on the other(1)  (1909) S.C. 335, 343.53418hand, the contention is accepted that the court can   decideby taking other evidence as to whether the document  relatesto  the	 affairs  of State then the discretion	to  ban	 itsproduction  by the head of the department  must	 necessarilybecome illusory.  If the court takes upon itself the task ofdeciding the nature of the document, then it will be  takingupon itself the very grave duty of deciding a vital questionas  to	what  are the affairs of State	without	 having	 thenecessary material before it or without knowing the  exigen-cies  of the public service or the effect of the  disclosureof  the State secret or how far the disclosure	will  injurethe public interests and- it may thus unwittingly become theinstrument  of giving publicity to something which the	headof  the	 department  considered	 injurious  to	the   publicinterests,  the	 law  having  given  to	 the  head  of	 thedepartment  concerned to make this determination'  No  doubtthe  discretion is wide and covers all classes of  documentswhich  may fall within the phrase "affairs of  State",	somenoxious	 and  others  innocuous and may even  appear  to  beunduly restrictive of the rights of the litigant but if thatis  the	 law  the sense of responsibility  of  the  officialconcerned and his sense of fair play has to be trusted.	 Thesecond.	 part of s. 162 therefore cannot be said  to  permitthe  taking of other evidence, ie., other than the  documentto  determine the question of its production when it  is  ofthe  category  falling	under s. 123.  That  part  does	 notentitle the court to determine the nature of the document orthe  adequacy  of  the reasons	which  impelled	 the  properofficial to claim privilege.  It would be relevant Co  quotethe  observations  of  Isaacs,	J.,  in	 Marconi's  WirelessTelegraph, Co. v. The Common. wealth"I distinctly adverted to the necessary fact that: the rightof  discovery given, to the litigant for the furtherance  ofpublic	 justice  must	be  subject  to	 the  still   higherconsideration of the general welfare that the order to	makeproper	discovery does not destroy the privilege  of  publicinterest,  and,	 that  the  ground  of,	 public	 policy	 mayintervene and', prevent the injury, to(1)  (1913) 16 C.L.R. 178, 201.			    419the community which coercive 'disclosure might produce.	  Ifthat were not so, every gun in every fort and every safe  inthe  Treasury would be open through the medium of the  Courtto the observation of any ,plaintiff of any nationality	 whocould  make a prima facie case of the infringement to  whichit was relevant.  One of the authorities to which I referredin  that  connection was the judgment of Turner,  L.  J.  inWadeer	v.  East India Co., 8 D.M. & G., 182 at p.  191	 andthat,  judgment	 is, I think, of great value  in  this	casealso".It  will  be helpful to refer to the law on the	 subject  inEngland	 as laid down in English cases because the basis  ofthe Indian Law is the law of that country.  The question  ofprivilege  has	been described by Viscount Simon L.  C.,  inDuncan	v.  Cammell Laird & Co., Ltd. (1) as a	question  ofhigh  constitutional importance because it involves a  claimby  the Executive Government to restrict the material  whichmight  otherwise be available for the court trying the	caseand  this description was repeated by the House of Lords  inthe  Scottish  case Corporation of Glasgow v.  Central	LandBoard  (2).   It may be the material which a  party  to	 thelitigation may desire in its own interest and without  whichequal justice may be prejudiced.  The question of  privilegemay not only arise in cases where the State is party to	 thesuit  but may equally arise where the contestants in a	suitare  private parties and whether as a party to the  suit  ornot  the State may decline to produce a document.   In	Dun-can's  case  (1) the privilege of the crown, though  it	 wasdescribed  as  not  a happy expression, was  upheld  on	 theground	that  the interest of the State must not be  put  injeopardy by the production of a document which would  injureit  and	 which	is  also  a  principle	to  be	observed  inadministering justice, "quite unconnected with the interestsor  claims  of	the particular parties	in  litigation	and,indeed, is a rule upon which the Judge if necessary,  insisteven  though  no  objection is taken at all."  The  sort  ofgrounds	  to  afford  justification  for.  withholding	 thedocuments-were,given by Viscount Simon as follows.-(1)  [1942] A.C. 624.	      (2) 1956 S.C. I (H.L.),420"It  would  not	 be  a good ground  that,  if  they	wereproduced  the consequences might involve the  department  orthe  government	 in Parliamentary discussion  or  in  publiccriticism, or might necessitate the attendance as  witnessesor  otherwise  of  officials  who      have  pressing dutieselsewhere.    Neither  would  it  be  a	 good  ground	thatproduction might tend to expose a want of efficiency in	 theadministration or tend to lay the department open to  claimsfor  compensation.   In a word, it is not  enough  that	 theminister  or  the  department  does not	 want  to  have	 thedocument produced.  The minister, in deciding whether it  ishis  duty  to object, should bear  these  considerations  inmind,  for he ought not to take the responsibility of  with-holding production except in cases where the public interestwould otherwise be damnified e.g. where disclosure would  beinjurious  to  national	 defence,  or  to  good	  diplomaticrelations  or  where  the practice of  keeping	a  class  ofdocuments secret is necessary for the proper functioning  ofthe public service."Thus the documents, which are protected from production, arethose  the production of which would be prejudicial  to	 thepublic	interests or those which belong to that class  whichas  a  matter of practice, are kept secret  for	 the  propermaintenance of the efficient working of the public service.Objection  has	been  taken to the authority  of  this	ruleenunciated by Viscount Simon L. C., on the ground that it isin  serious conflict with another principle that the  properadministration	of  justice  is	 also  a  matter  of  publicinterest, i. e., "fiat justitia ruat caelum" but as was saidby  Viscount Simonds in Glasgow Corporation v. Central	LandBoard (1), "The paramountcy of the public interest has	beenrecognized  and preserved".  This principle, which  was	 re-enunciated  by	Viscount Simon, L. C., had been the  law  ofEngland	 for  over a century before Duncan's case  (2).	  InEarl  v. Vass (3) it was held that public officers  are	 notentitled  or compellable to produce  written  communicationsmade  by  them	officially relative  to	 the  character	 andconduct of a party applying(1) 1956 S.C. 1 (H.L.).		   (2) [1942] A.C. 624.(3) (1822) 1 Sh.  Sc.  App. 229.421for  a public office when the production is demanded  in  anaction for damages against the writer.	Lord Eldon L. C., atp. 230 observed:-"I  apprehend, in all cases in which it has been held,	uponthe  principle	of  public policy, that	 you  shall  not  becompellable   to  give	evidence  of,  or  produce  s	suchinstruments-that  is,  wherever it is held you	are  not  ongrounds of public policy, to produce them-you cannot producethem  and that it is the duty of the judge to say you  shallnot produce them......"Lord Eldon referred with approval to the decision in Home v.Lord  William Bentinck (1) which was of the year 1820.	 Theprinciple there laid down was that production of instrumentsand papers must be shut out if it was against public policy.At p. 919 the learned Chief Justice said:-"It seems therefore that the reception of the minutes  wouldtend directly to disclose that which is not permitted to  bedisclosed; and therefore, independently of the character  ofthe court, I should say, on the broad rule of public  policyand convenience that these matters, secret in their  nature,and  involving	delicate enquiry and the names	of  persons,stand protected".The  injury to public service was recognized in	 Beatson  v.Skene (2) where Pollock, Q. B., said:"It appears to us, therefore, that the question, whether theproduction of the documents would be injurious to the publicservice,  must	be determined, not by the Judge but  by	 thehead of the department having the custody of the papers; andif  he is in attendance and states that in his	opinion	 theproduction of the document would be injurious to the  publicservice,  we  think  the  Judge	 ought	not  to	 compel	 theproduction  of it.  The administration of justice is only  apart  of the general conduct of the affairs of any State  orNation,	 and we think is (with respect to the production  ornon-production	of  a  State paper in a	 Court	of  Justice)subordinate  to	 the general welfare of the  community.	  Ifindeed, the head of the(1)  (1820) 2 Brod. &B. 130: 129 E.R. 907.(2)  (1860) 5 H. & N. 838: 157 E.R. 1415.422department  does  not  attend personally  to  say  that	 theproduction  will be injurious but sends the documents to  beproduced or not as the Judge may think proper, or as was thecase  in Dickson v. The Earl of Wilton beford Lord  Campbell(reported  in Foster and Finla	son's N. P. Rep.,  p.  425),where  a  subordinate  was  sent  with	the  document	withinstructions  to  object but nothing more, the case  may  bedifferent."Martin B. did not entirely agree with the view of the  otherthree  learned Barons and he was of the opinion that if	 thedocument  could	 be  produced without  prejudice  to  publicservice	 he ought to compel its	 production  notwithstandingthe reluctance of the head of the department to produce	 it.It was pointed out by Pollock, C. B., that this might  applyto  extreme cases and "extreme cases throw little  light  onthe practical rules of life".In  Smith  v.  East India Company (1)  which  related  to  acommercial transaction as to the liability to pay freight  asimilar	  privilege   was  upheld.   It	 was   argued	thatcommunications between officials and communications  betweenDirectors and Board of Control were official  correspondenceand  were  privileged.	On appeal the Lord  Chancellor	heldthat  in  order that superintendence and control  should  beexercised  effectively and for the benefit of the public  itwas  necessary	that unreserved	 communication	should	takeplace  between	the  East India Company	 and  the  Board  ofControl.In Homer v. Ashford (2) which was of the year 1825,Best,  C.J., said:-"The first object of the law is to promote public  interest;the second to preserve the rights of individuals".In this connection it may not be out of place to recall	 thestriking  language of Knight Bruce, V. C., quoted at p.	 401of   Macintosh	 v.  Dun  (3)  in  the	judgment   of	LordMacnaughten:-"Truth like other good things, may be loved unwisely-may  bepursued too keenly-may cost too(1)  (1841) 1 Ph. 50: 41 E.R. 550.(2)  (1825) 3 Bing. 322; 130 E.R. 537, 539.(3) (1908) A. C. 390.423much".	 And  then he points out that the meanness  and	 themischief  of  prying  into  things  which  are	regarded  asconfidential, with all the attending consequences, are	"toogreat to pay for truth itself."Thus the law as stated in these old English cases shows thatwhat was injurious to the public interest or prejudicial  tothe proper functioning of the public services was not to  bedisclosed and if the objection was based on these grounds itmust prevail.  As to who was to determine this, the judge orthe  official,	Pollock	 C.  B. decided	 in  favour  of	 theofficial  because the enquiry could not be held	 in  privateand  if it was held in public the mischief would  have	beendone. Beatson v. Skene (1).It was with this background of the state of the English	 lawthat Sir James Fitzjames Stephen drafted the law of evidencewhich  was  enacted into the Indian Evidence Act (Act  1  of1872).Scrutton,  T., in Asiatic Petroleum Company Ltd.  v.  Anglo-Persian	 Oil  Company  Ltd. (2) which  was  a  case  betweenprivate parties inspected the document to the production  ofwhich  objection was taken, and having seen it he said	thathe  would not take the responsibility of ordering it  to  beproduced  against  the wishes of the Government.   When	 thematter was taken in appeal, Swinfen Eady, L. J., was of	 theopinion	 that  the  rule was not confined  to  documents  ofpolitical  or administrative character.	 The  foundation  ofthe  rule  was	that the  information  cannot  be  disclosedwithout	 injury	 to  the public interest and  not  that	 thedocument  was  confidential  or official, and  that  if	 theproduction  would  be injurious to the public  service,	 thegeneral public interest must be considered paramount to	 theindividual  interest  of the suitor.  This  was	 a  documentwhich  was written by the defendants, who owned	 a  pipelinefrom Persia to their refinery in the Persian Gulf, to  theiragents	in Persia which contained  confidential	 informationfrom the Board of Admiralty.The  Scottish cases have also upheld the privilege  of.	 theCrown in regard to production although it has(1) (1860) 5 H. & N. 838; 157 E.R. 1415.(2) [1916] 1 K. B. 822.424been  stated that the inherent power of the court to  itselfsee  the  document  and to override but not  to	 review	 thecertificate of the official of the department concerned	 hasalways	existed	 in Scottish courts.  In Duncan's  case	 (1)Viscount Simon, L. C., quoted with approval the	 observationof   Lord   Dunedin,  the  Lord	 President   in	  the	LordCommissioners  of  the	Admiralty  v.  The  Aberdeen   SteamTrawling  & Fishing Co., Ltd. (2).  That was a case where  aGovernment  department	objected to the	 production  of	 thedocument  on  the  ground  that	 the  production  would	  beprejudicial to public services and it was held that the viewof  the government department was final and the	 court	willrefuse	production  even in action in which  the  Governmentdepartment was a party.	 The objection there was taken on anaffidavit.  At p. 340, the Lord President (Dunedin) said:-"It  seems to me that if a public department  comes  forwardand says that the production of a document is detrimental tothe public service,, it is a very strong step indeed for theCourt  to  overrule that statement by the  department.	 TheLord  Ordinary has thought that it is better that he  shoulddetermine  the	question.  I do not there  agree  with	him,because	 the  question	of  whether  the  publication  of  adocument  is  or is not detrimental to	the  public  servicedepends	 so much upon the various points of view from  whichit may be regarded, and I do not think that the Court is  inpossession of these various points of view.  In other words,I think that, sitting as Judges without other assistance, wemight  think that something was innocuous, which the  betterinformed officials of the public department might think	 wasnoxious.  Hence, I think the question is really one for	 thedepartment, and not for your Lordships".And Lord Kinnear agreed with Lord Dunedin and at p.    343said:-"I  agree  that	 we  cannot take out of	 the  hands  of	 theDepartment   the  decision  of	what  is  or  what  is	 notdetrimental  to	 the  public service.  There  are  only	 twopossible courses.  We must either say that it is a good(1) [1942] A.C. 624,	 (2) (1909) S.C. 335, 343.425ground of objection or we must overrule it altogether.	I donot  think  that  we  should  decide  whether  it  would  bedetrimental  to the public service or not; and I agree	withwhat both your Lordships have said as to the position of theCourt  in  reference to that question.	We do not  know	 theconditions under which the production of the document  wouldor would not be injurious to the public service.  I think itis not improbable that even if an officer of the  Departmentwere  examined as a witness we should not get  further	for-ward, because the same reasons which induced the  Departmentto say that the report itself ought not to be produced mightbe  thought  to	 preclude the  Department  from	 giving	 theexplanations required.	A department of Government, to whichthe  exigencies	 of  the public service are  known  as	theycannot	be  known  to  the  Court,  must,  in  my  judgment,determine a question of this kind for itself, and  thereforeI agree we ought not to grant the diligence."In  a later Scottish case Henderson v.M'Gown (1) where in  asuit between private parties income-tax returns were  soughtto be produced, the court held that it had the power, in theexercise of its discretion, to order production of documentsin  the	 custody  of a public department  in  spite  of	 itsobjection  but	in  the	 circumstances	it  did	 not   orderproduction as it was unnecessary.  Lord Johnston said at  p.826:-"That is not to say that the court never can and never	willoverrule such a statement but merely that it would be a verystrong step, and therefore a step for which the Court  wouldrequire very grave justification.  The Admiralty and the WarOffice are charged with the duty of providing for the safetyof  the realm, and, if either say that the production  of  adocument  in their hands would be prejudicial to the  publicinterest, I think that we should naturally implicitly acceptthe  statement.	 But there are distinctions  between  publicdepartments.   The  interest  of such a	 department  as	 theInland Revenue is that the public should be able to rely  onall returns to them and(1)  (1916) S.C. 821.54426communications	made to them being treated as  confidential.This also is the public interest."The  latest Scottish case relied upon is a decision  of	 theHouse of Lords in Glasgow Corporation v. Central Land  Board(1).  In that case privilege was claimed by the Central LandBoard  on  the ground that its	production  would  adverselyaffect the public interests.  The question for decision	 waswhether	 Scottish  courts were bound to give effect  to	 thecertificate  of the Secretary of State or whether the  courthad  an inherent jurisdiction not to review the	 certificatebut  to override it. The House of Lords was of	the  opinionthat  Duncan's case (2) did not affect the Law	of  Scotlandand  the  Scottish courts possessed the	 inherent  power  tooverride  the  objections  of the Minister and	it  did	 notexclude the court from making an order of production but  inthat case the power was not exercised.	Viscount Simonds, L.C.,  said at p. 10 that Duncan's case (2) had  settled	thataccording  to the Law of England an objection validly  takento production of documents on the ground that this would  beinjurious  to the public interest is conclusive but to	citethe  case  of Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty (3  )  asauthoritative  without regard to the earlier cases  and	 thelater case of Henderson v. M'Gown (4) must give an imperfectview of the law of Scotland.  But even in Scotland the powerhad  been rarely, very rarely, exercised by the courts;	 itsexercise had been refused even where the result had been theprejudice  of the private individual and the paramountcy  ofthe  public interest had been recognised and preserved.	 (p.II).   Lord-  Normand  observed that for  a  100  years	 theuniform	 track of authority asserted the inherent  power  ofthe  court to disregard the crown's objection but the  powerhad been seldom exercised; only the courts had	emphaticallysaid that it must be used with the greatest caution and onlyin  special circumstances.  In this connection Lord  Normandsaid at p. 16:-"It was also a firmly established rule that the courts couldnot dispute the certificate and that the(1)  1956 S.C. 1 (H.L.).     (2)   [1942] A.C. 624.(3)  (1909) S.C. 335, 343.    (4)  (1916) S.C. 821.427question  whether  production would be	contrary  to  publicinterest was for minister or the department concerned."Lord  Radcliffe in his speech said that Duncan's case  oughtnot  to be treated as a decision which affected the  law  ofScotland.   Dealing with the case before the court  and	 thepower reserved to the court to overrule the crown  objectionhe said at p. 18:-"I  do	not  understand	 that the  existence  of  the  powerinvolves  that in Scotland, any more than in England, it  isopen to the court to dispute with the minister his view thatproduction would be contrary to the public interest is	wellfounded	 or to arrive at a view, contradictory of  his	thatproduction  would  not in fact be at all injurious  to	thatinterest.   If	weight	is given to the	 argument  that	 theMinister in forming his view may have before him a range  ofconsiderations that is not open to the Court and that he  isnot under any obligation to set out these considerations  inpublic, I think that it must follow that the Minister's viewmust  be  accepted  by	the  Court  as	incapable  of  beingdisplaced  in  by its own opinion".  The view  expressed  inAdmiralty Commissioners v. Aberdeen(1) was dissented from.After  referring to another aspect of public  interest	thatimpartial  justice should be done in the courts of law,	 notleast between citizen and Crown, the Lord Normand observed:"If  in	 the past the power to disregard the  objection	 hashardly ever been exercised, that has been due, I think, to avery  proper  respect  for the Crown's	position  and  to  aconfidence  that  objections  of this nature  would  not  beadvanced,  or at any rate persisted in, unless the case	 wasone in which production would involve material injury to thepublic welfare".Thus,  as  was said by Lord Normand, there is  a  differencebetween	 the  law of England and the law of Scotland  on  animportant  constitutional  question.  But  in  practice	 thedifference was little as the exercise of the inherent  powerby the Scottish Courts had been rare.(1) [1942] A.C. 624.		(2) (1909) S.C. 335. 343.428As  the	 Privy Council judgment in Robinson's case  (1)	 wasfrom Australia it will be useful to refer to two  Australiancases:-In Marconi's Wireless Telegraph Company Limited	  v.   TheCommonwealth(2)	 where	inspection was claimed	of  wirelesstelegraphic apparatus, Isaacs, J., in his minority  judgmentat  p. 205 enunciated the following propositions  which	 arerelevant for the purpose of the present case:- "(1)  The  rule  of exclusion	of  State  secrets  applies,necessarily without distinction to the facts, documents	 andother  objects.	  This was admitted by Mr.  Irvine,  and  isestablished by such cases as B. v. Watson 2 Stark, 116 at p.148; B. v. Hardy 24 St. Tri. 199, at col. 753; R. v.  Watson32 St. Tri. 1, at cols. 100-101.(2)The rule proceeds on the same grounds whether the   partiescalled on to produce the documents, &c., are or	  are	 notparties	 to  the  suit,	 that is,  on  the  grounds  of	 theprejudice  to the public interests, which  production  wouldoccasion (per Turner, L. J. in Wadeer's case S. D. M. &	 G.,1882;  Admiralty  Commissioners	 v.  Aberdeen  Trawling	 Co.(1909) Sess.  Ca., 335.(3)  The right to protection depends upon the "character" ofthe documents, &c. (ib.).(4)  If	 the  documents, &c., are prima	 facie	private,  aswhere  they  are  in private hands then in  the	 absence  ofMinisterial  claim  for protection, the Court,	in  case  ofobjection  by the private defendant on the ground of  publicpolicy, will ascertain their character that is, whether theyare   really  governmental  and,  if  they  are,  the	nextsucceeding paragraph applies: Smith v. East India Company  IPh. 50.(5)  If	 the  documents,  & are of a political	that  is,  agovernmental  "character", then even in the absence  of	 anyMinisterial  claim  for protection, it is the  duty  of	 theCourt,	on  objection  by private person  holding  them,  toascertain  whether public prejudice will or may	 ensue	fromproduction,  and, if it appears that public policy  requiresconfidence between the objector and the Government, they arepresumed(1) [1931] A.C. 704.	  (2) (1913) 16 C.L.R. 178, 201.429prima facie to be confidential: Smith v. East India  CompanyI  Ph. 50 and per Wills, J. in Hennessy v. Wright 21  Q.B.D.509, 518-519.(6)  If	  either   by  proof  or   undisplaced	 presumptionconfidence  is	required, then it is a rule of law,  not  ofdiscretion,  that the documents shall be excluded: Marks  v.Beyfus 25 Q.B.D. 494 at pp. 498-500; Stace v Griffith L.R. 2P. C., 420 at p. 428.(7)  If	 the documents, &c., are in fact "State	 documents",that is, "in possession of a government department", and theMinister  having  custody  of them assures  the	 Court	thatpublic prejudice will or may ensue from production, that, inthe  absence  of  what	are called  extreme  cases  and	 arepractically  negligible,  is conclusive evidence  of  their,character,  that  is,  that  they  are	confidential  publicdocuments,  and that such prejudice will or may	 ensue,	 andthe  Court must act upon it: Stace v. Griffith L.R.  2	P.C.420  at	 p.  428;  Beatson  v. Skene 5	H.  &  N.  838;	 TheBellerophon  44	 L. J. Adm. 5; Hughes v. Vargas	 9  R.	661;Halsbury's  Laws  of  England, Vol.  XI, p.  85;  Taylor  onEvidence,  10th ed., pp. 673, 674; Powell on  Evidence,	 9thed.,  p. 273.  Conclusiveness in such a case is not  unique.Even a private claim for privilege in an ordinary  affidavitof  documents is (with certain exceptions immaterial  here),taken as conclusive with respect even to the grounds  statedfor claiming privilege; See Halsbury's Laws of England, Vol.XI, p. 61 and Morris v. Edwards 15 App.	 Cas. 309."The  learned Judge dealing with the matter of  privilege  inpublic	interest and the principles based on  prevention  ofinjury to the community observed at p. 203:"Such a doctrine is inherent in all systems of law; for	 thefirst requirement of every organised society is to live, andso far as possible to live securely, and the next is to livewith the greatest advantage to the community at large ;	 andto these essentials the strict administration of justice  inparticular cases amongst members must yield."Thus the principle is that private inconvenience must  yieldto public ;interest; in other words Fiat justitia430ruat coelum is not always the right of a suitor because	 theproper	maxim  applicable is salus populi  suprema  est	 lexwhich transcends all other considerations.  The majority  ofthe  Court in that case had held that there was	 nothing  towarrant	 the conjecture that the inspection  could  discloseanything that could reasonably be called secret in any senseof the word.  The matter was taken to the Privy Council	 butspecial	 leave to appeal was refused.  The  Lord  Chancellorthere said:-(See Griffins case, 36 C.L.R. 378, 386)"Of  course the Minister's statement or certificate must  beconclusive  on	a  particular  document.   How	can  it	  beotherwise?........................ If the Minister certifiesquite  specifically,  his  certificate is  to  be  taken  asconclusive.  The ground on which special leave to appeal wasrefused	 in  that  case appears to have	 been  that,  havingregard to the form of the order, which carefully limited theright  of inspection and reserved liberty to apply,  it	 wasnot a convenient case in which to raise a great question  ofprinciple."In Griffin v. The State of South Australia (1) objection  tothe production for inspection of documents was upheld on theground	that the statement of the Attorney General  for	 theState	that  their  production	 for  inspection  would	  beprejudicial to the public interest is conclusive.  That	 wasa  case	 in which inspection of documents was sought  in  anaction	brought	 in  the  High Court  of  Australia  by	 theplaintiff  against the State of South Australia	 to  recoverdamages for negligent storage of wheat.	 Knox, C. J., in thecourse	of his judgment referred to the observations of	 theLord  Chancellor  in  Marconi's case, (2)  which  have	beenquoted above.  Isaacs, J., reiterated his previous  opinion.Starke,	 J.,  was doubtful and he was of  the  opinion	thatthere was no reason why the courts should not use the  powerconfided  in  them for discovery.  If some  real  doubt	 wasestablished  as to the accuracy of the Minister's  statementthere was no reason for refusing the power in a proper	caseparticularly   when   the  commercial  activities   of	 theGovernment were becoming more and more extensive and(1) (1925) 36 C.L.R. 378,(2) (1913) 16 C.L.R. 178,201.431the   sphere   of  political   and   administrative   actioncorrespondingly wider.	He was also of the opinion that	 thecourts should be able to fully protect the public  interestsand  do nothing to imperil them.  The learned Judge in	thatparticular  case was not fully satisfied with the  affidavitof the Minister.The  matter  of privilege in Australia	  was taken  to	 thePrivy	  Council  in Robinson v. State of  South  Australia(1).	  This	case  arose  out of  an	 action	 similar  toGriffin's case	(2) and a similar privilege was	 claimed.ThePrivy Council was of the opinion that the Minister's  minutewas inadequate to support the claim of privilege but it	 hadnot  been lost by the inefficiency of the form in  which  itwas claimed and the matter was a proper one for the court toexercise  its  power of inspection for which  privilege	 wassought	in order to determine whether their production	willbe  prejudicial	 to  public interest  or  to  the  efficientworking of the public services.Lord Blanesburgh said at p. 714:-"  As  the protection is claimed on the broad  principle  ofState  policy and public convenience, the papers  protected,as  might  have	 been expected,	 have  usually	been  publicofficial   documents  of  a  political	 or   administrativecharacter.  Yet the rule is not limited to these  documents.Its  foundation is that the information cannot be  disclosedwithout	 injury	 to the public interests and  not  that	 thedocuments  are confidential or official, which alone  is  noreason for their nonproduction: See Asiatic Petroleum Co. v.Anglo-Persian  Oil (1916) 1 K. B. 822, 829-830 and Smith  v.East India Co. 1 Ph. 50."and at p. 715 it was observed:-"It must not be assumed from these observations of the	LordJustice	 that documents relating to the trading,  commercialor contractual activities of a State can never be claimed tobe   protected	under  this  head  of  privilege.    It	  isconceivable  that even in connection with the production  ofsuch   documents  there	 may  be  "some	  plain	  overrulingprinciples  of	public interest concerned  which  cannot  bedisregarded"."(1) [1931] A.C. 704.(2) (1925) 36 C.L.R. 378.432After  referring  to various cases that have  been  set	 outabove  the Privy Council was of the opinion that  the  courtwas entitled to prescribe in any particular case the  mannerin  which  the claim of privilege should be  made.   It	 mayaccept unsworn testimony of the Minister in one case but  inanother	 where the circumstances seems to be to	 so  requirecall  for an affidavit from him.  It may be  that  objectionmerely on ground of public policy may not be sufficient	 butit  ought to appear that the mind of a responsible  Ministerhad  been brought to bear on the question of  expediency  inthe  public interest of giving or refusing  the	 informationasked  for.  This would be a guarantee that the	 opinion  ofthe Minister which the court is asked to accept is one whichhas  not been expressed inadvisedly or as a matter  of	meredepartmental  routine  but  is	one  put  forward  with	 thesolemnity necessarily attaching to the sworn statements	 andthat  the  privilege could not be asserted  in	relation  todocuments the contents of which had already been  published.In that particular case the Minister had merely stated	thathe had considered this mass of documents and not that he hadread them and considered each one of them.  Lord Blanesburghsaid at p. 722:-"In  view  specially  of the fact  that	 the  documents	 areprimarily  commercial documents he should have	condescendedupon some explanation of the particular and far from obviousdanger	or detriment to which the State would be exposed  bytheir production.  Above all, and especially in view of	 thelast paragraph of the minute, the claim was one which shouldhave been put forward under the sanction of an oath by	someresponsible Minister or State official."Continuing it was observed that there may be some among	 thescheduled  documents  to which privilege  may  be  genuinelyattached and to give inspection of which without more  woulddestroy	 the  protection of the privilege and  therefore  itwould or might be contrary to public interest to deprive theState	of   opportunity  of  regularising  its	  claim	  toprotection.   The Board would have given this advice had  itnot  been for the fact that it would have  involved  seriousdelay			    433without	  advancing  further  the  final  solution  of	 thequestion.   The case was therefore remitted to	the  SupremeCourt  with  a direction that it was a proper  one  for	 theexercise by that court of the power of inspecting documents.The  Privy  Council  was careful to add that  the  Judge  ingiving his decision as to, any document would safeguard	 theinterests  of  the  State and would not	 resolve  the  doubtagainst	 the  State  without  further  enquiring  from	 theMinister.   In	that  case  also  the  paramountcy  of	 theconsideration  of public interest was recognized but as	 theprivilege was not properly claimed and the document  relatedto  commercial	activities of the State and  it	 would	haveinvolved  unnecessary prolongation of the action  the  PrivyCouncil	 remitted  the case for the court  to  exercise	 itspower of inspection under the Rules and Orders of the  courtbut with the further direction of safeguarding the  interestof the State.In  Duncan v. Cammell Laird & Co. (1), the Court  of  Appealheld  that the affidavit of the First Lord of Admiralty	 wasconclusive  if	it  stated that	 such  production  would  becontrary  to public interest, and the order  for  productionwas  therefore refused.	 Du Parcq, L. J., pointed  out	thatthe  Privy  Council case (Robinson's case (2)) was  not	 thefinal  word  on the subject in regard  to  production.	 TheHouse of Lords in appeal did not agree with the judgment  ofthe  Privy  Council and it is significant that	two  of	 theseven  Law Lords in the House of Lords were parties  to	 thePrivy  Council judgment.  The House of Lords held  that	 theaffidavit of the Minister was conclusive and that inspectionof  a document by a court in private would be  communicatingwith one party to the exclusion of the other and it acceptedthe  principle	that  if it was prejudicial  to	 the  publicinterests  or  the  document  belonged	to  that  class	  ofdocuments  which are kept secret for the proper	 functioningof the public services the production of the document  wouldbe  refused.  It was recognized in that case that it is	 theJudge  who is in control of the trial and not the  executivebut the proper ruling for the judge to give(1) [1942] A.C. 624.	      (2) [1931] A.C. 704.55434would  be that an objection validly taken to the  productionon  the ground of its being injurious to public interest  isconclusive.The English cases which were decided after the pronouncementof  the	 House	of  Lords in  Duncan's	case  (1)  naturallyfollowed  the decision of the House of Lords.  In  Ellis  v.Home  Office (2) where a prisoner who had been	attacked  injail  by  another prisoner who was a mental case  asked	 forcertain reports and privilege was claimed, the privilege wasupheld	but it was said that although it was essential	thatGovernment department should be entitled to claim  privilegeagainst	 disclosure  of documents on the  ground  of  publicinterest  the  ambit  of  privileges  should  be   carefullyscrutinized and each document should be examined.  It may bementioned  that in that case Devlin, J., felt grave  concernabout  the  claim of this privilege because the	 result	 wasthat  documents	 were  to be treated  as  destroyed  and  nosecondary  evidence  could be led and this  concern  of	 thetrial judge was shared by the Court of Appeal.	In Broome v.Broome	(3) which was a defended suit for divorce, the	wifewanted	certain	 documents of the  Soldiers',  Sailors'	 andAirmen's  Families  Association but the Secretary  of  Stateissued a certificate in which he stated that the  productionwould  not  be in public interest.  It was held	 that  Crownprivilege   from  disclosure  attached	to   all   documentsirrespective  of where they originated or in  whose  custodythey  reposed provided that they had emanated from  or	cameinto the possession of some servant of the Crown.In Auton v. Rayner & Ors. (4) it was pointed out at page 572that  the  sole	 concern of the	 Minister  was	whether	 theinterests  of  the  State in the sphere	 for  which  he	 wasresponsible would be affected and therefore the documents orevidence  should be withheld from the court.  It  was  addedthat  the  Minister  should accept and	recognize  that	 theproper administration of justice would be impeded or may  beunattainable  if any document or any evidence was  withheld.In that case an action was brought against the(1)  [1942] A.C. 624.	  (2) [1953] 2 All E.R. 149.(3) [1955] 1 All E.R. 201.  (4)	   [1958] 3 All E.R. 566.435defendants, one of whom was a Police Officer, charging	themwith   conspiracy   to	injure	and   defraud	him,   falseimprisonment  and  malicious  prosecution.   The   documentsrequired  by the plaintiff were reports made by	 the  PoliceOfficer to his superior officers and the communication whichpassed	between	 the  Metropolitan Police  Force  and  otherpolice	force and the Secretary of State swore an  affidavitindicating  that  the  document	 should	 be  withheld	fromproduction and that he had formed an impartial judgment thatin the public interest and for the proper functioning of thepublic services the document should be withheld.  'The Courtof  Appeal held that the determination of the  Secretary  ofState ought reasonably to be accepted and that the affidavitwas, in the circumstances, conclusive.The law in England may thus be summed up:--(1)  That  a document need not be  produced  for  inspectioneither on discovery or at the trial when objection is  takenby  the	 Minister that disclosure of the document  would  becontrary to public policy or detrimental to public  interestor services.  This privilege attaches irrespective of  wherethe  document originates or in whose custody it is  providedit emanated from or came into possession of some servant  ofthe crown;(2)  the privilege can be claimed or waived by the authorityof the Minister or the head of the department;(3)  secondary	evidence may not be given of a document	 forwhich privilege is established;(4)  official correspondence per se is not privileged on theground	of  its being confidential or official nor is  it  avalid ground that production would involve the Government incriticism   or	 expose	  'want	  of   efficiency   in	 theadministration	or  open up claims to compensation  but	 theground	for  privilege	is  that  the  production  would  bedetrimental to the interest of the public or interfere	withthe efficient working of the public service or it belongs toclass  of  documents  which  it	 is  the  practice  of	 thedepartment to keep secret;(5)  the minister's objection may be conveyed by a letter orby the official who attends at a trial but436the  court may require an affidavit by or the attendance  ofthe Minister;(6)  before a privilege is claimed it is desirable that eachdocument should be examined by the department concerned	 andinspection permitted of all documents which cannot harm	 thepublic interest;(7)  if	 a minister claims privilege the court	will  accepthis  statement and ought not to examine the document to	 seeif the objection is well founded;(8)  public  interest  must not be put in  jeopardy  by	 theproduction of a document which could injure it and the courtshould, if necessary, prohibit the production even though noobjection has been taken by the Government department.It  may	 be  pointed out that the  privilege  was  expresslyreserved when by the Civil Proceedings Act, 1947, the  Crownwas made liable to. give discovery in civil proceedings.It  is	no  doubt true and it must be  recognized  that	 theadministration	of public justice is also a part  of  publicinterest  but as was pointed out by Viscount Simon L. C.  inDuncan's case (1) the interest of the State is the  interestof the citizen and if the former suffers the interest of thelitigant   also	 suffers  and  therefore   public   interesttranscends  the	 individual  interest  of  a  citizen.	  InDuncan's  case	(1) it was emphasised that the	Minister  indeciding  whether it was his duty to object should  bear  inmind   the   considerations   which   justify	 withholdingproduction,  i.e.,  the public interest would  otherwise  bedamnified,  i.e.,  the	disclosure  would  be  injurious  tonational  defence, or to good diplomatic relations or  wherethe  practice  of  keeping a class of  documents  secret  isnecessary for the pro-per functioning of the public service.And  that is the safeguard which both in England  and  Indiathe law seems to have found sufficient for the protection ofan individual's rights.	 Even in Scotland where the inherentright of the courts to override official discretion has beenrecognized the occasions for the exercise of that power haveindeed been rare and even in the(1)  [1942) A.C. 624.437latest	case  Glasgow  Corporation v. Land  Board  (1)	thatposition was reiterated.Although the consensus of opinion in India is that under thesecond	part  of  s.  162 the court  will  not	inspect	 thedocument  if it relates to matters of State yet there  is  atrack  of decision which has taken the view that it  is	 notfor  the head of the department claiming the  privilege	 butfor  the court to decide whether the document  falls  withinthe category mentioned in s. 123.  But in some other cases adifferent  view has been taken.	 A reference to cases  whichfall on both sides of the line will be helpful.In  Irwin  v. Reid (2) Mukherjea, A. C. J.,  held  that	 thelanguage  of s. 123 showed that the court cannot be  invitedto  discuss  the  nature  of the  document  and	 the  publicofficial  concerned and not the court is to  decide  whetherthe  evidence referred to shall be given or  withheld.	 "Ifany  other  view  were taken, the mischief  intended  to  beaverted	 would take place, as the judge could not  determinethe  question  without	ascertaining  the  contents  of	 thedocument,  and such inquiry, if it did take place must,	 forobvious reasons, take place in public: Beatson v. Skene (3),Hennessy v. Wright (4), Jehangir v. Secretary of State	(5).The  result practically is, that if the objection is  raisedby a proper authority the court cannot compel disclosure  byprimary or by secondary evidence."The  Lahore High Court in Khawja Nazir Ahmad v. Emperor	 (6)held that the head of the department who is in possession ofthe  documents	is the sole judge of the  fact	whether	 thedocuments should be protected from production on the  groundof  their  being related to affairs of State  and  thereforethough	the  decision would be that of the court,  it  wouldhave to rule in favour of the privilege claimed by the	headof  the department.  It was also held that the interests  ofthe  State  must  not be put in jeopardy  by  production  ofdocuments  which would injure them and that was a  principleto be observed in administering justice and(1) (1956) S.C. 1 (H. L.) (2) (1921) I.L.R. 48 Cal. 304.(3)  (1860)  5	H. & N. 838; 157 E.R. 1415.(4) (1888) 21 Q.B.D. 509.(5) (1903) 6 Bom.  L.R. 131, 160.(6) I.L.R. (1945) Lah. 219.438indeed	a rule on which the judge should insist even  thoughno  objection  is  taken at all.  In that  case	 there	werecertain	 confidential  files of the Special  Enquiry  Agencycontaining notes, correspondence etc., relating to the	caseand containing a record of statements of various persons anda  proper  affidavit  had  been filed by  the  head  of	 thedepartment stating that the production would be injurious topublic interests.  Abdul Rahman, J., said "I feel  convincedin  my	mind that the objection as to its  production  apartfrom  its admissibility (e.g., for want of  registration  orcontravening  the  rule as to when secondary evidence  of  adocument  can be admitted-if the document is merely  a	copyand  not original) can only be decided by its inspection  bythe  Court followed as it must necessarily have been  by  anorder  for its production, although not in the sense of	 itscontents  having been disclosed to the party  summoning	 thedocument  at  any  rate	 at that stage.	  If  the  Court  isdebarred under the statute from inspecting it, I cannot	 seehow  the  objection as to its production  can  otherwise  bedecided".   In	I.  M. Lal v. Secretary of  State  (1)	thisprivilege was upheld.  In that case it was held that s.	 162divided the privilege of documents into two categories.	  Atp. 212 Abdul Rashid, J. (as he then was) observed:-"The Court can inspect documents for the purpose of decidingthe  question  of privilege only if those documents  do	 notrefer  to matters of State.  In other words an exception  ismade in respect of documents that refer to matters of State.Such  documents cannot be inspected by the Court  while	 allother  documents for which privilege is claimed are open  toinspection  by	the Court for the purpose  of  deciding	 thevalidity of the objection regarding privilege."The  Bombay High Court in re Mantubhai Mehta  in  construingss.  123, 124 and 162 has held that the officer summoned  toproduce	 the document is bound 'to bring it and if he  takesobjection  to its production it is for the court  to  decidewhether	 the objection is well founded or not but the  courtis  not	 entitled to inspect it.  This	track  of  reasoningsuffers from the(1) A.I.R. 1944 Lah. 209.    (2) I.L.R. [1945] Bom. 122.439same  difficulty  that	has been pointed  out  that  withoutlooking	 at the document and taking into  consideration	 thewide  words of s. 123 it becomes difficult to hold that	 thecourt  can  decide  as to whether the  document	 relates  to"affairs  of State" and whether it should or should  not  beproduced.   In	that  Bombay  judgment	the  learned   Judgereferred  to  the observations of Viscount Simon,  L.C.,  inDuncan's case (1).  Besides the learned Judge also  referredto  s. 124 the effect of which is not the same as of s.	 123of the Evidence Act.  Bhagwati J. (as a Judge of the  BombayHigh  Court)  in R.M.D. Chamarbaghwala v. Y. R.	 Parpia	 (2)held that the court cannot inspect the document in order  todetermine  whether  they are  unpublished  official  recordsrelating  to any affairs of State, but its  jurisdiction  todetermine  is  not taken away by s. 162 and it	is  for	 thecourt to decide the question of production by taking all thecircumstances  into consideration barring inspection of	 thedocument.   The learned Judge mainly referred to  Robinson'scase  (3)  and	it appears that the learned  Judge  was	 notsatisfied  as  to the documents being  unpublished  but	 thecriterion  he  laid down was that only	such  documents	 areprivileged  which  relate  to  affairs	of  State  and	 thedisclosure of which would be detrimental to public interest.The question really is the same as to who is to decide	whe-ther it is "matters" of "affairs of State".The  Calcutta  High Court in a later judgment in  Ijjat	 AliTalukdar v. Emperor (4) took a contrary view different	fromits older view and held that the court is to decide  whetherconditions precedent to ss. 123 & 124 have been established.That  was  a  case  under the  Excise  Act  and	 the  ExciseCommissioner  was called upon to produce certain  documents.The  Commissioner  claimed  privilege under s.	123  on	 theground that the files contained unpublished official recordsrelating to affairs of State and Das J., as he then was, wasof  the	 opinion that the occasion  for	 claiming  privilegeunder  s.  123	arose when it was sought  to  give  evidencederived from unpublished official records(1)  [1942] A.C. 624.	 (2)  A.I.R. 1950 Bom. 230.(3)  [1931] A.C. 704.	 (4)  I.L.R. [1944] 1 Cal. 410.440relating  to  any  public  affairs  which  was	a  conditionprecedent.  He then referred to s. 124 of the Evidence	Act.The  second part of s. 162 provided the method or  means  toenable	the  court  to	decide	the  question,	namely,	  byinspecting  the	 document  or  by  taking  other   evidence.Although  the  court  was disentitled  from  inspecting	 thedocument, the duty of deciding the question was still on thecourt.	At p. 419 the learned Judge observed:-"In case of documents relating to affairs of State it may bedifficult for the Court to decide the question, yet it	neednot  be	 necessarily  impossible for the  Court	 to  do	 it.Ordinarily  no	difficulty  will  arise,  because  heads  ofdepartments  or	 public	 officers are not  expected  to	 actcapriciously  and  ordinarily the Court	 will  accept  theirstatement.  If necessary, the Court will require the officerto  claim  the	privilege in the  manner  indicated  in	 theJudgment  of Lord Blanesburgh in the Australian	 case.	 If,however,  the  Court finds that an over-zealous	 officer  iscapriciously putting forward a claim of privilege, the Courtwill  decide, as best as it can, by the means  available  toit, whether the claim is well founded."As  has	 already been said above the second  part  does	 notafford	the  means  or methods to the Court  to	 decide	 thequestion  of privilege.	 The only method is  inspection	 andthat is denied to the court in cases falling under s. 123.The  second case which is on the other side of the  line  isthe judgment of Bose J., as he then was, in Bhaiya Saheb  v.Ramnath	 Rampratap Bhadupote (1).  In that case the  learnedJudge  was  of the opinion that the insertion of  the  words"unless it refers to matters of State" in the middle of	 theparagraph  seemed  to  indicate that  the  court  might	 notinspect	 the document in respect of which the privilege	 wasclaimed	 until	it had opportunity of determining  upon	 itsadmissibility  and  for	 that purpose it  could	 take  otherevidence  which	 meant	evidence  other	 than  the  documentproduced.  This line of reasoning is similar to that adoptedin Ijjat Ali's (2) case.(1) I.L.R. [1940] Nag. 240, 247.(2) I.L.R. [1944] 1 Cal. 410.441The  Andhra Pradesh High Court in Public Prosecutor,  Andhrav. Damera Venkata Narsayya (1) was of the opinion that	whenan objection under s. 123 is taken the court has no power toinspect	 the  document but may take other evidence  for	 thepurpose	 of  deciding the objection and if it comes  to	 theconclusion  that  the  evidence will  be  derived  from	 theunpublished records relating to the affairs of the State theobjection will have to be upheld and it will be left to	 thehead  of the department to give or withhold  the  permissionand the criterion for the head of the department was whetheror not the disclosure would cause injury to public  interestand he was the sole judge of the matter with which the courtcannot interfere.  This case does not support the contentionof the respondent.The  Patna  High Court in Lakhuram Hariram v. The  Union  ofIndia  (2) held that the head of the department	 must  firstexamine the document and he may then raise an objection	 buthe is not absolved from the obligation of appearing in courtand  satisfying the court that the objection taken is  validand  the  court	 may require him to  give  an  affidavit  orfurther	 questions may be put in regard to the	validity  ofthe claim but the court is not entitled to inspect the docu-ment.A.   P.	 Srivastava, J., in Tilka & Ors. v. State, (3)	heldthat under s. 162 of the Evidence Act the court may  inspecta document unless it relates to affairs of State and in sucha  case it will have to take other evidence relating to	 thenature of the document.The  words  of s. 123 are very wide; and the  discretion  toproduce or not to produce a document is given to the head ofthe  department and the court is prohibited from  permittingany  evidence  to  be  given  which  is	 derived  from	 anyunpublished documents relating to affairs of State.  Section162  does not give the power to the court to call for  otherevidence  which will indicate the nature of the document  orwhich will(1) I.L.R. [1957] And.	Prad. 174.(2) A.I.R. 1960 Pat. 192.(3)  A.I.R. 1960 All. 543.56442have any reference to the reasons impelling the head of	 thedepartment  to withhold the document or documents.   In	 thevery nature of things when the original cannot be looked  atand  no secondary evidence is allowable the court will	onlybe  groping  in	 the dark in regard to	the  nature  of	 thedocument or the evidence.  The correct way of looking at theIndian	statute,  therefore, is to interpret in	 the  mannerwhich is in accord with the English law, i.e., the court hasnot  the power to override ministerial	certificate  againstproduction.It is permissible for the court to determine the  collateralfacts  whether	the official claiming the privilege  is	 theperson mentioned in s. 123, or to require him to file properaffidavit or even to cross-examine him on such matters whichdo  not	 fall  within the enquiry as to the  nature  of	 thedocument  or  nature  of the injury but	 he  may  be  cross-examined  as  to  the  existence  of  the  practice  of	 thedepartment to keep documents of the class secret but  beyondthat ministerial discretion should be accepted and it shouldneither be reviewed nor overruled.For these reasons I concur in the decision that this  appealmust be allowed.SUBBA  RAO, J.-I have perused the judgments prepared  by  mylearned	 brethren,  Kapur and Gajendragadkar, JJ.   I  agreewith them in maintaining the claim of privilege in regard tothe three items described as "original orders" passed by thePEPSU Government, but regret my inability to agree with themin regard to the report of the Service Commission.This appeal raises the question of the scope and content  ofthe  law of privilege attached to affairs of State  and	 theprocedure to be followed for ascertaining it.  The facts arefully  stated in the said judgments and I need	not  restatethem;  but  I  would prefer to give my own  reasons  for  myconclusion.It  would be convenient at the outset to clear	the  ground.The  arguments at the Bar have covered a wide field, but  weare not concerned here with the law of privilege  pertainingto  the field of discovery and inspection of documents.	  Weare called upon only to decide its443scope  during  the trial of a suit when a  witness,  who  issummoned  to  produce a document, claims  privilege  on	 theground	that  the document relates to affairs of  State.   Ishould	not be understood to have expressed any	 opinion  onthe  difficult	question  whether when the  defendant  is  aState,	the Court is not entitled to inspect  the  documentsunder 0. XI, rule 19(2), Code of Civil Procedure.The  question falls to be considered on a true	constructionof  two of the provisions of the Indian Evidence  Act,	1872(hereinafter called the Act), namely, ss. 123 and 162.	Theyread:Section 123: "No one shall be permitted to give any evidencederived	 from unpublished official records relating  to	 anyaffairs of State, except with the permission of the  officerat  the head of the department concerned, who shall give  orwithhold such permission as he thinks fit."Section	 162:  "A  witness summoned to	produce	 a  documentshall,	if  it is in his possession or power,  bring  it  toCourt,	notwithstanding any objection which there may be  toits production or to its admissibility.	 The validity of anysuch objection shall be decided on by the Court.The Court, if it sees fit, may inspect the document,  unlessit  refers  to matters of State, or take other	evidence  toenable it to determine on its admissibility.If for such a purpose it is necessary to cause any  documentto  be translated, the Court may, if it thinks	fit,  directthe  translator	 to  keep the contents	secret,	 unless	 thedocument is to be given in evidence; and if the	 interpreterdisobeys such direction, he shall be held to have  committedan offence under section 166 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of1869)."The  relevant  parts  of  the  foregoing  sections  may	  besummarized  thus-.  Section 123 prohibits the giving of	 anyevidence derived from unpublished official records  relatingto  affairs  of	 State except with  the	 permission  of	 theofficer at the head of the department; while s. 162  enjoinson  a witness summoned to produce a document to bring it  toCourt and empowers444the Court to decide on the validity of any objection  raisedin respect of its production or admissibility.	The argumentof the Advocate-General is that the words "affairs of State"mean  "the  business  of State",  and,	therefore,  evidencederived	 from any unpublished official document relating  tothat  business cannot be given as evidence except  with	 thepermission of  the  head  of the department  concerned,	 andthat  the Court under  s. 162 of the Act must  automaticallyaccept	the  affidavit filed by the head of  the  departmentclaiming   such	 a  privilege.	 Learned  counsel  for	 therespondent, on the other hand, defines the words "affairs ofState"	only to take in documents whose production would  beagainst public interest, confines the power of the head of adepartment to permit or withhold the user of such a documentin  evidence, and sustains the Court's power to	 decide	 thequestion  of  privilege	 in respect of such  a	document  onrelevant materials without inspecting the document.The  crucial  words  in s. 123	are,  "unpublished  officialrecords	 relating  to  any affairs of  State".	 Under	thatsection	 no  one  shall be permitted to	 give  any  evidencederived from such records except with the permission of	 theofficer at the head of the department concerned.  The  words"affairs of State" have not been defined.  Though in s.	 123the words used are &'affairs of State", in s. 162 the  wordsused  are "matters of State".  There does not appear  to  beany practical difference between the two sets of words.	  InShorter Oxford Dictionary, III edition (1956), "matter"	 hasbeen  defined as "a thing, affair, concern" and "affairs  ofState"	as "public business".  These Dictionary meanings  donot  help  to  decide the content of the  said	words.	 Thecontent	 of the said words, therefore, can be gathered	onlyfrom the history of the provision.  It has been acknowledgedgenerally,  with some exceptions, that the  Indian  EvidenceAct was intended to and did in fact consolidate the  EnglishLaw  of	 Evidence.   It	 has also  often  been	stated	withjustification  that  Sir  James	 Stephen  has  attempted  tocrystallize  the principles contained in Taylor's work	intosubstantive propositions.  In case of doubt or445ambiguity over the interpretation of any of the sections  ofthe  Evidence  Act we can with profit look to  the  relevantEnglish common law for ascertaining their true meaning.	  InEnglish	 common	 law the words "affairs of.  State"  do	 notappear.	 The basis of the doctrine of Crown privilege is theinjury	to the public interests.  The Judicial Committee  inRobinson v. State of South Australia (1) says at p. 714,"The  principle of the rule is concern for public  interest,and the rule will accordingly be applied no further than theattainment  of that object requires." The House of Lords  inDuncan	v.  Cammell Laird & Co. (2) restated the  same	ideawhen  it  observed that the State should  not  withhold	 theproduction  of	documents except in cases where	 the  publicinterest would otherwise be damnified.The  earlier decisions of the English courts  indicate	thatthe  Crown  privilege  was  sustained  only  in	 regard	  todocuments pertaining to matters of administration,  defence,and foreign relations whose disclosure would be against	 thepublic interest: see Home v. Lord F. C. Bentinck (3),  Smithv. The East India Company (4) and Beatson v. Skene, (5).The decisions of the High Courts in India over a long periodof  time  consistently	gave the same meaning  to  the	saidwords.	 It  may also be stated that in and about  the	timewhen  the Evidence Act was passed, the concept of a  welfareState  had  not	 evolved  in India and	as  such  the  words"affairs  of  State"  could not have  been,  at	 that  time,intended to take in the commercial or the welfare activitiesof  the State.	But when the words are elastic there  is  noreason	why they should not :be so construed as	 to  includesuch  activities  also,	 provided the  condition  of  publicinjury is also satisfied.  It is, therefore, clear that	 thewords "affairs of State" have acquired a secondary  meaning,namely, those matters of State whose disclosure would  causeinjury to the public interest.(1)   [1931] A.C. 704.	 (2) [1942] A.C. 624.(3)  (1820) 2 Brod. & B. 130: 129 E.R. 907.(4)  (1841) 1 Ph. 50; 41 E.R. (Chancery) 550.(5)  (1860 5 H. &. N. 838.446The    learned	 Advocate-General   contends	that	thisconstruction,  if  accepted,  would give a  meaning  to	 theprovisions  of s. 123 of the Act which would be contrary  toits tenor.  He classifies documents relating to "affairs  ofState"	into noxious and innocuous documents,  and  contendsthat  documents,  whose disclosure would affect	 the  publicinterest,  are	noxious documents and that  if	the  recordswhich  relate  to  the affairs of State	 mean  only  noxiousdocuments,  the said construction would bring out  a  resultdirectly opposite to that contemplated by the section.	Whenthe  section intends to prohibit the disclosure	 of  noxiousdocuments,  the argument proceeds, the construction  enablestheir  disclosure if the head of the department permits	 it.Shortly	 stated,  his  contention  is  that  the  expression"affairs of State", that is, business of State, is the genusand  the  document, the disclosure of which is	against	 thepublic	interest, is the species, and that the head  of	 thedepartment  is	only empowered to permit the  disclosure  ofdocuments  falling outside the said species.  This  argumentis  apparently logical and rather attractive, but it  is  anoversimplification  of	the  problem and  is  based  upon  adisregard  of the legislative history and the long track  ofdecisions  of  this country.  If accepted, it  enlarges	 thescope of the said privilege to such an extent that in effectand substance the control of the admissibility of  documentsshifts	from  the  Court to the	 State	or  its	 subordinateofficers,  for	every document relating to the	business  ofState would be a privileged document unless the head of	 thedepartment in his discretion permits the giving of  evidencederived	 therefrom.  Nor can I accept the construction	thatan absolute privilege is attached to every noxious document,i.e.,  to every State document the disclosure of  which	 maycause  injury  to the public interest.	This is	 giving	 toonarrow	a  meaning to the words "public interest".   If	 thenon-disclosure	of a particular State document is in  publicinterest,  the impartial and uneven dispensation of  justiceby  Courts is also in public interest.	They are indeed	 twoaspects	 of  public  interest.	 There	is  no	conflict  ordichotomy between the two.  In particular447circumstances one aspect may be paramount and in a differentset of circumstances the other may be given precedence.	  Inthe  last analysis, it is the question of balancing  of	 thetwo  aspects  having  regard  to  the  circumstances  of   aparticular  case.   The	 head of a department  may  as	wellpermit	the disclosure of a document even if ordinarily	 itsdisclosure  affects public interest, if in his	opinion	 thecounter-balancing circumstances are in favour of  disclosurerather	than  non-disclosure.  I cannot, therefore,  give  awide  meaning to the words "records relating to	 affairs  ofState" so as to take in every unpublished document  pertain-ing  to the entire business of State, but confine them	onlyto such of the documents whose disclosure would be injuriousto public interest.The  next question is, who is empowered to decide  the	saidquestion whether a particular document relates to affairs ofState ?-whether it is the Court or the State.  That is foundin s. 162 of the Act.  The learned Advocate-General contendsthat  the first part of s. 162 makes a	distinction  betweenthe  production	 of a document and the	admissibility  of  adocument  and that the first limb of the second part of	 thesection	 provides for the production of a document  and	 thesecond	limb  for  its admissibility.	He  illustrates	 hisargument  thus:	 privilege  may	 be  raised  in	 respect  ofproduction  of a document on the ground that it pertains  tomatters	 of State, or on the ground that it is	inadmissiblefor  want  of registration deficiency of stamp,	 or  similarother  defects.	 The first clause of the second part  of  s.162,  the argument proceeds, enables the Court to inspect  adocument when the objection is to its production unless	 thedocument refers to a matter of State, and the second  clausethereof	 empowers the Court to take evidence only  when	 theobjection is not to its production but to its admissibility.If this contention be accepted, it will lead to an  anomaly,for grammatically construed the two limbs of the second partcan be applied only to the question of admissibility and  inthat  event,  on  the hypothesis suggested  by	the  learnedcounsel, the Court will be entitled to look into a  documenteven if it relates to a448matter	of State if the objection is only to its  productionand   not  to  its  admissibility.   The   more	  reasonableconstruction  of the section is to give a wider	 meaning  tothe word "admissibility" so as to comprehend both productionas well as admissibility, for the question of  admissibilityarises only after the document is produced and a party seeksto  get it admitted in evidence.  In this view,	 the  secondpart  of  s.  162 can only mean that when  an  objection  israised either to the production or to the admissibility of adocument, a Court can inspect the document and if it  thinksnecessary  other  evidence  may be taken to  decide  on	 theobjection  raised. By the express terms of the	section	 theCourt  is precluded from inspecting a document if it  refersto matters of State.  But in other respects the jurisdictionof  the	 Court	to decide on the  objection  raised  is	 notdifferent  from	 that  it  possesses  in  respect  of  otherprivileged documents.If so understood there cannot be any ambiguity in the  scopeof s. 162 of the Act.  It says in express terms that when anobjection  is raised to the production of a document  or  toits admissibility, the validity of any such objection  shallbe  decided  by the court.  The second part of	the  sectionstates the material on the basis of which such an  objectioncan be decided.	 It can either inspect the document or	takeother  evidence to enable it to decide the validity  of	 anyobjection  raised.   The only limitation in the	 case  of  adocument  referring  to matters of State is that  the  courtcannot inspect it.  It is implicit in the limitation that inthe  case  of documents pertaining to matters of  State	 thecourt  is precluded not only from inspecting  the  documentsbut  also  from	 permitting  parties  to  adduce   secondaryevidence  of  their  contents.	"The  other  evidence"	mustnecessarily be de hors the contents of the documents.Even  in  England  there is no divergence  of  view  on	 thequestion  who  has  to	decide, when  an  objection  to	 theproduction  of	a  document  is	 raised	 on  the  ground  ofprivilege,  the	 validity of the objection.   In  Robinson'scase (1), the Judicial Committee observed at p. 716 thus:(1)  [1931] A.C. 704.449"The  result  of  the  discussion  has	 been...............wherein	 effect	 he concludes that the Court  has  in  thosecases  always had in reserve the power to inquire  into	 thenature of the documents for which protection is sought,	 andto  require some indication of the nature of the  injury  tothe State which would follow its production.  The  existenceof such a power is in no way out of harmony with the  reasonfor  the privilege provided that its exercise  be  carefullyguarded	 so  as not to occasion to the	State  the  mischiefwhich  the privilege, where it exists, is designed to  guardagainst."The  House  of Lords in Duncan's case (1),  also  recognizedthis power though it whittled down its scope by holding thatthe judge had to accept automatically the affidavit filed bya  minister.   Viscount Simon, L. C., states at	 p.  642  asfollows:"Although  an objection validly taken to production, on	 theground that this would be injurious to the public  interest,is conclusive, it is important to remember that the decisionruling	 out   such  documents	is  the	 decision   of	 thejudge................  It is the judge who is in control  ofthe trial, not the executive, but the proper ruling for	 thejudge to give is as above expressed."On the other hand, in Scotland the inherent right of  courtsto override official discretion is recognized.	The House ofLords in Glasgow Corporation v. Land Board (2) gave a  clearexposition  of	the law of that country.   Viscount  Simondsderives	 the  principle of the court's power from  the	factthat the fair administration of justice between subject	 andsubject	 and the Crown is a public interest of higher  orderand  the  protection  is  the  care  of	 the  courts.	LordRadcliffe finds it on the doctrine that the interest of	 theGovernment   for  which	 the  minister	should	speak	withauthority does not exhaust the public interest, for  anotheraspect	of that interest is seen in the need that  impartialjustice should be done in courts of law.  These judgments ofthe  high authority also recognized the fact that it is	 thecourt that has to decide an objection(1)  [1942] A.C. 624.	 (2) (1956) S.C. (H.L.) 1.57450raised by the State on the ground of privilege.	 There is  astrong current of Indian decisions taking the same view: seeKhawja	Nazir Ahmad v. Emperor (1), re Mantubhai Mehta	(2),B.  M.	D.  Chamarbaugwala v.Y. R. Parpia (3  ),  Lijat	 AliTalukdar  v.  Emperor  Bhaiya  Saheb  v.  Ramnath  RampratapBhadupote  Public  Prosecutor,	Andhra	v.  Damera   VenkataNarasayya  Lakhuram Hariram v. The Union of India  Tilka  v.State  (8).  In a few cases a different view  is  expressed.It may, therefore, be stated without contradiction that	 thepreponderance of authority is in favour of a court  decidingthe question of State privilege.Some  objections are raised in decided cases in England	 andrestated  in  Duncan's case (9) against	 conferring  such  apower  on  courts.   Apart from the fact  that	the  statuteexpressly  confers such a power, there are no merits in	 theobjections  raised.  The objections are: (i) the judges	 arenot  well  qualified  to  appreciate  the  highly  technicalmatters	 which may arise with regard to some kinds of  Statesecrets;  (ii) if a judge is allowed to decide	on  evidencethe  question of privilege, it may prejudice a	fair  trial;and (iii) it is a first principle of justice that the  judgeshould	have  no  dealings on the matter in  hand  with	 onelitigant save in the presence of and to the equal  knowledgeof the other.  The objections raised have no substance.	 Thefirst  objection,  if accepted, disqualifies  a	 judge	fromdeciding  complicated technical questions that arise  beforehim.   A judge is trained to look at things objectively	 andcan  certainly decide, without inspecting the  documents  onthe  material supplied whether the production of a  documentwill  affect  the  public  interest  having  regard  to	 thecircumstances of each case.  Nor are there any merits in thesecond objection.  In the words of Sir C. K. Allen, a  judgeworthy	of  his office can put out of his  mind	 all  issuesexcept	those which are raised and decided by  the  forensicprocess.   It  is common place that a judge  is	 trained  todecide a case only on(1)  I.L.R. [1945] Lah. 219.  (2)  I.L. R. [1945] BOM. 122.(3)  A.I.R. 1950 Bom. 230.    (4)  I.L.R. [1944] 1 Cal. 410.(5)  I.L.R. (1940] Nag. 240.  (6)  I.L.R. [1957] P. 174.(7)  A.L.R. 1960 Pat. 192.    (8)  A.I.,R. 1960 All, 543,		    (9) [1942) A.C. 624.451the admissible evidence actually adduced before him and	 noton any extraneous considerations.  The third objection	alsohas no basis in fact.  So long as a judge takes care to ruleout  any question on the contents of a document	 in  respectwhereof	 privilege is claimed, he can certainly	 decide	 thequestion   in  the  presence  of  both	the  parties.	 Theobjections  have,  therefore, no substance.   On  the  otherhand,  there is every reason why the duty to decide  on	 thequestion of State privilege must be left to a judge and	 notto  the	 State.	  That is the  reason  why  the	 legislaturerightly	 conferred that power on the court.  A judge  is  asmuch  a	 part of a department of the State as  an  executiveofficer.   But	unlike	the executive officer,	a  judge  istrained	 to decide cases objectively not only between  indi-viduals inter se but also between the State and individuals.He  can, therefore, be trusted to decide impartially on	 thequestion whether the production of a document in a case willaffect	 the   public  interest.   State  documents   in   asecretariat,  I	 presume,  will	 be'  looked  into  by	manyofficers dealing with the said documents, sometimes from thelowest	to  the	 highest in the	 department.   It  would  beunrealistic  to	 suggest  that the  disclosure	of  a  Statedocument  to any one of those officers would not affect	 thepublic	interest whereas the decision of its character by  ajudge would do so.  It is, therefore, the duty of the court,whenever  an  objection	 is raised on the  ground  of  Stateprivilege  to  decide  on  relevant  evidence  whether	 thedocument relates to affairs of State.Even  if  the  wide construction of the	 words	"affairs  ofState",	 namely, business of State, be accepted, the  resultwill  not be different.	 The section says that no one  shallbe  permitted to give any evidence derived from	 unpublishedofficial  records relating to affairs of State, except	withthe permission of the officer at the head of the  departmentconcerned.   The  expression  "affairs	of  State"  in	 itsordinary  significance is of the widest amplitude  and	willmean the entire business of State.  It takes in the  routineday-to-day administration and also highly confidential	actsinvolving defence and foreign relations, and also in  moderntimes452the multifarious activities of a welfare State.	 The  objectof the section is simply to prohibit the use of	 undiscloseddocuments of State in evidence by persons who in the  courseof  their  duties deal with or look  into  those  documents,without	 the  permission of the officer at the head  of	 thedepartment concerned.  The words used in the section "as  hethinks fit" confer an absolute discretion on the head of thedepartment to give or withhold such permission.	 The sectiondoes not lay down that the head of the department  concernedshould	refuse	permission only if  the	 disclosure  injurespublic interests, though ordinarily he may refuse permissionon  such matters affecting the State.  One can	visualize  asituation  when	 the  officer in exercise  of  his  absolutediscretion  refuses  to give permission for the use  of	 notonly noxious documents but even of innocuous ones.  The onlylimitation  on his power is his reason and experience.	 Theabsolute discretion is capable of giving rise to mistake  oreven  conscious abuse.	The section does not really  involveany  doctrine  of  State privilege but is  only	 a  rule  ofcommonsense and propriety.  If the officer gives permission,there is an end of the matter; but, if he refuses, the partyaffected  may  take  out  necessary  summons  to  the  StateGovernment  to produce the document.  The  State  Governmentmay  depute one of its officers to produce the	document  incourt.	 Then only the occasion for raising the question  ofprivilege  arises  and s. 162 governs  that  situation.	  Anoverriding  power in express terms is conferred on  a  courtunder s. 162 of the Act to decide finally on the validity ofthe objection raised on the ground of privilege.  The  courtwill  disallow the objection if it comes to  the  conclusionthat  the  document does not relate to affairs of  State  orthat the public interest does not compel its non-disclosure,or that the public interest served by the administration  ofJustice in a particular case overrides all other aspects  ofpublic	interest.  This conclusion flows from the fact	thatin  the	 first	part  of  s. 162 of  the  Act  there  is  nolimitation  on the scope of the court's decision, though  inthe second part the453mode of enquiry is hedged in by conditions.  In England,  inthe  absence of a provision or a rule of common law  similarto  that of s. 162, there was room for conflict of views  onthe  scope  of	the court's power.  On the  other  hand,  inScotland the common law corresponding to s. 162 was  invokedand the House of Lords recognized the inherent power of	 theCourt to reject a claim of Privilege if the Court comes to aconclusion that the paramount interest of the administrationof  justice demands or compels such a  disclosure.   Section162  of the Act in terms confers a similar power  on  courtsand though it may have to be used with circumspection, it isa real and effective power.  There is no conflict between s.123  and s. 162 of the Act: the former confers a power on  ahead of a department to withhold permission from the  stand-point of State administration, whereas s. 162 recognizes theoverriding power of a court in the interest of higher publicinterest to overrule the objection of privilege.The next point is, what is the procedure to be followed by ajudge  for deciding on the said objection?  When an  officerof the State is summoned as a witness to produce a document,if  the State seeks to take a plea of privilege then  it  isthe  duty  of  the  minister in	 charge	 of  the  departmentconcerned  to file an affidavit at the first instance.	 Theaffidavit  so  filed shall ex facie show that  the  ministerconcerned  has read and considered each of the documents  inrespect	 of which the privilege is claimed.  It	 shall	alsocontain	  the  general	nature	of  the	 document  and	 theparticular danger to which the State would be exposed by itsproduction.  If the court is not satisfied with the contentsof  the	 affidavit,  to	 enable it  to	decide	whether	 thedocument in question refers to the affairs of State, it	 cansummon	the minister to appear as a witness.  In effect	 andsubstance   the	 said  procedure  has  been   suggested	  inRobinson's  case (1) at p. 722.	 The same procedure is	alsoindicated  in  Duncan's case (2) at p. 638.  In	 the  secondcase  above  referred, Viscount Simon L.C. says	 at  p.	 638thus:(1) (1931] A.C. 704.		  (2) [1942] A.C. 624.454"If the question arises on subpoena at the hearing it is notuncommon in modern practice for the minister's objection  tobe conveyed to the court, at any rate in the first instance,by an official of the department who produces a	 certificatewhich the minister has signed, stating what is necessary.  Isee  no	 harm in that procedure, provided it  is  understoodthat  this is only for convenience and that if the court  isnot satisfied by this method, it can request the  minister'spersonal attendance."It  may	 be  suggested that this procedure  may	 cause	someinconvenience  to  the	minister  concerned.   But  if	 onerealizes  that	every act of the exercise of  the  right  ofprivilege  detracts from the fair disposal of a case  beforethe  court  and that the administration of justice  is	alsopart of the general conduct of the affairs of any State	 andthat  its  impartiality and purity are as important  as	 anyother  public interests, one will also appreciate  that	 therequirement  of	 the personal attendance of a  minister,  ifnecessary,  to	support his affidavit would be	to  a  largeextent a guarantee against unjust objections that may other-wise  be raised.  It is suggested that an affidavit  of	 thehead  of  a department, such as the Secretary, would  do  aswell  as  that	of a minister, but  there  is  an  essentialdistinction  between a Secretary and a minister: the  formermay  be	 frequently  tempted  to  take	the  opposite  view,particularly in cases where a claim against the State  seemsto  him to be harsh or unfair, while the latter,  being	 thepolitical  head	 subject to parliamentary  control,  may  beexpected, if he carefully scrutinizes a particular document,not  to	 take such objection which obstructs  the  cause  ofjustice	 unless absolutely necessary.  I  would,  therefore,hold  that  the	 affidavit which states	 that  a  particulardocument  relates to affairs of State must be sworn to	onlyby  a  minister in charge of the  department  wherefrom	 thedocument or documents are summoned.The next point is, what are the well established rules whichhelp  the  court  to decide whether  a	particular  documentpertains to affairs of State or not?  The following relevantrules may be extracted from455the  decision of the Judicial Committee in  Robinson's	case(1): (1) the privilege is a narrow one most sparingly to  beexercised;  (2)	 the principle of the rule  is	concern	 forpublic interest and the rule will accordingly be applied  nofurther than the attainment of that object requires; (3)  asthe  protection is claimed on the broad principle  of  Statepolicy	and  public convenience, the  papers  protected,  asmight have been expected, have usually been public  officialdocuments  of a political or administrative  character;	 (4)its  foundation is that the information cannot be  disclosedwithout	 injury	 to the public interests and  not  that	 thedocuments  are confidential or official, which alone  is  noreason	for  their non-production; (5) even in the  case  ofdocuments relating to the trading, commercial or contractualactivities  of a State, it is conceivable that there may  besome   plain  overruling  principle  of	  public   interest.concerned  which cannot be disregarded; though in  times  ofpeace  such cases must be very rare.  The House of Lords  inDuncan's  case (2) has laid down the following negative	 andpositive tests for deciding the question of privilege of theState.	 The negative tests are: (1) it is not a  sufficientground that the documents are State documents or official ormarked	confidential  ; (2) it would not be  a	good  groundthat, if they were produced, the consequences might  involvethe department or the government in parliamentary discussionor in public criticism, or might necessitate the  attendanceas  witnesses  or otherwise of officials who  have  pressingduties	elsewhere; (3) neither would it be good ground	thatproduction might tend to expose a want of efficiency in	 theadministration or tend to lay the department open to  claimsof  compensation.   The positive test is, where	 the  publicinterest  would otherwise be damnified, for  example,  wheredisclosure  would  be injurious to national defence,  or  togood diplomatic relations, or where the practice of  keepinga  class  of documents secret is necessary  for	 the  properfunctioning of the public service.  The last test has  givenrise  to  mild but definite protests within  the  limits  ofjudicial propriety by the learned judges who(1) [1931] A.C. 704.		 (2) [1942] A.C. 624.456had the occasion to deal with the question of privilege	 andto vehement protests from jurists.  Sir C. K. Allen, in	 hisbook "Law and Orders" (2nd edition), has observed at p.	 384thus:"Everybody  is	agreed	that  public  security	and  foreignrelations  are necessary heads of privilege.  Both are	widein scope, and it is doubtful whether any other 'head'  needsto  be	specified..................  It would  be  of  greatadvantage  if  statute could put an end	 to  the  perniciousdoctrine  that	privilege  can be  claimed  for	 classes  ofdocuments."The  argument of the learned Advocate-General is based	uponan  apprehension,  which in my view is unfounded,  that	 thecourt  may  always refuse the affidavit of  a  minister	 andinsist	 on  his  personal  attendance.	   The	 unpublisheddocuments  relating to defence, foreign relations and  otherdocuments  of  great public importance	rarely	come  beforemunicipal  courts.   Occasionally  documents  of  day-to-dayadministration	of the State may be relevant  evidence,	 butvery  often  documents pertaining to mercantile	 or  welfareactivities  of	the State would be summoned to	establish  aparticular  claim.   In the case of documents  of  undoubtedpublic importance, when the minister swears to an  affidavitthat  in his discretion their production is  against  publicinterest, it may reasonably be expected that the judge wouldaccept	the  statement.	 But the real difficulty is  in	 thecase  of  other documents, where the  interests	 of  privateindividuals  and  the State come into  conflict,  the  judgeshould	be in a position to examine the minister and  othersto  ascertain by evidence collateral to the contents of	 thedocuments  whether the assertion of the minister  is  justi-fied.The aforesaid discussion yields the following  propositions:(1)  under  s.	162 of the Evidence Act the  court  has	 theoverriding power to disallow a claim of privilege raised  bythe  State in respect of an unpublished document  pertainingto  matters of State; but in its discretion, the court	willexercise  its power only in exceptional	 circumstances	whenpublic	interest demands, that is, when the public  interestserved by the457disclosure  clearly  outweighs	that  served  by  the	non-disclosure.   One  of  such instances is  where	 the  publicinterest  served  by  the administration  of  justice  in  aparticular  case  overrides  all  other	 aspects  of  publicinterest.  (2) The said claim shall be made by an  affidavitfiled by the minister in charge of the department  concerneddescribing the nature of the document in general and broadlythe category of public interest its non-disclosure  purportsto  serve.  (3)	 Ordinarily  the  court	 shall	accept	 theaffidavit  of a minister, but in exceptional  circumstances,when  it has reason to believe that there is more than	whatmeets  the eye, it can examine the minister and	 take  otherevidence  to decide the question of privilege. (4) Under  nocircumstances can a court inspect such a document or  permitgiving of secondary evidence of its contents. (5) Subject tothe  overriding power of the court to disallow the claim  ofprivilege  in  exceptional  cases,  the	 following   provideworking	 rules of guidance for the courts in the  matter  ofdeciding the question of privilege in regard to	 unpublisheddocuments  pertaining  to  matters of  State:  (a)  "recordsrelating to affairs of State" mean documents of State  whoseproduction would endanger the public interest; (b) documentspertaining to public security, defence and foreign relationsare documents relating to affairs of State; (e)	 unpublisheddocuments  relating  to trading, commercial  or	 contractualactivities   of	 the  State  are  not,	ordinarily,  to	  beconsidered as documents relating to affairs of State; but inspecial	 circumstances they may partake of  that  character;(d)  in cases of documents mentioned in (c) supra, it  is  aquestion of fact in each case whether they relate to affairsof  State  or not in the sense that if	they  are  disclosedpublic interest would suffer.Bearing	 the aforesaid principles in mind, I shall  construethe nature of the documents in respect of which privilege isclaimed	 in the present appeal.	 The so called order of	 thePEPSU  Government  is  really the minutes  recorded  in	 thecourse	of  cabinet discussions.  Under Art. 163(3)  of	 theConstitution, the question58458whether	 any,  and  if	so  what,  advice  was	tendered  byministers to the Governor shall not be inquired into in	 anycourt.	 In view of the constitutional protection,  and	 thereason	underlying  such  protection, I	 hold  that  in	 thepresent case the district court was right in sustaining	 theclaim of privilege in regard to the said document.In  regard to the report of the Service Commission,  on	 theassumption that it is a relevant document, I cannot see	 howpublic	 interest  suffers  by	its   disclosure.    ServiceCommission  is	a statutory body constituted  with  definitepowers	conferred on it under the Constitution.	 Under	Art.320(3)(c)  of  the  Constitution the  State  Public  ServiceCommission  shall be consulted on all  disciplinary  mattersaffecting a person serving under the Government of a  State.This  is one of the constitutional protections conferred  onpublic	servants.   I cannot visualize how  public  interestwould  suffer  if  the	report	submitted  by  the   ServiceCommission  to	the  Government is disclosed,  and  how	 thedisclosure of such a report prevents the Service  Commissionfrom expressing its views on any other case in future passesmy  comprehension.   It	 may expose  the  Government  if  itignores a good advice; but such' an exposure is certainly inpublic	interest.  The Constitution does not put a  seal  ofsecrecy	 on the document; nor, in my view,  public  interestdemands	  such	 secrecy.   In	a   conflict   between	 theadministration of justice and the claim of privilege by	 theState,	I  have	 no  hesitation to  overrule  the  claim  ofprivilege.Before	closing, I must notice one fact.  In this case,	 theChief  Secretary filed an affidavit.  But, in my  view,	 theminister should have done it.  The respondent did not objectto  this either in the district court or in the High  Court.In  the	 circumstances,	 I would not  reject  the  claim  ofprivilege on the basis of this procedural defect.In  the result, I would allow the appeal in respect  of	 theminutes of the cabinet and dismiss it in other respects.  Asthe parties have succeeded and failed in part, I direct themto bear their own costs throughout.459BY  COURT: In accordance with the opinion of  the  majority,this  appeal is allowed, the order passed by the High  Courtis set aside and that of the trial court restored with coststhroughout.					Appeal allowed.