PETITIONER:KARNANI PROPERTIES LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:AUGUSTINDATE OF JUDGMENT:09/11/1956BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.JAGANNADHADAS, B.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1957 AIR  309		  1957 SCR   20ACT:Rent Control-Standard rent, Fixation of-Lease Providing	 fora consolidated rent-Landlord undertaking to Provide  specialamenities including supply of electric current-Applicabilityof  the Act Determination of fair and reasonable rent-	WestBengal	premises Rent Control (Temporary Provisions) Act  of1950 (West Bengal XVII of 1950), s. 9 cl. (g), Sch.  A.HEADNOTE:The appellant was the common landlord of the three  premisesin respect of which three analogous proceedings were startedby the respective tenants for standardisation of rent  unders.  9  read with Sch.  A of the West  Bengal  Premises	RentControl (Temporary Provisions) Act of 1950.  Under the termsof  the	 lease, which provided for  a  consolidated  monthlyrent,	the  landlord  was  to	provide,  besides   electricinstallations,	electric current for consumption  and  otherspecial	 amenities.   His  defence  was	 that  the   specialincidents  of  the tenancies took the tenancies out  of	 thescope of the Act and if not, alternatively, cl. (g) of s.  9of   the   Act	 should	 apply	and   the   rent   increasedproportionately to the increase in the charges for  electriccurrent	 and enhanced Government duty payable thereon.	 TheRent  Controller  rejected  the contentions  and  fixed	 thestandard rent in accordance with the rules laid down in Sch.A of the Act.  The Chief Judge of the Small Causes Court, onappeal by the landlord, applied cl. (g) of s. 9 of the	Act,gave relief in respect of the higher charges for electricityand Government duty and fixed the standard rent at a  higherfigure.	 The tenants moved the High Court in revision and itheld  that  cl.	 (g) of s. 9 did not  apply  and  virtually,though	not  entirely,	affirmed the decision  of  the	RentController.   The landlord appealed by special leave on	 thequestions of law involved.Held, that the Act applied to the premises and the standardrent must be determined, under the provisions of cl. (g)  ofs.  9  of  the	Act and the  decision  of  the	Chief  judgerestored.21The  term 'Premises' as defined in s. 2(8) of_ the  Act	 waswide  enough  to  cover the  tenancies	with  their  specialincidents   and	 the  consolidated  monthly  rent  for	 theamenities   provided  by  the  landlord	 came	within	 thecomprehensive  sense in which the word rent was used by	 theAct and was as such liable to be controlled under it.The observation to the contrary made in respect of such rentin  the	 case of Residence Ltd. v. Surendra  Mokan  did	 notcorrectly represent the legal position.Property Holding Co., Ltd. v. Clark, (1948) I K. B. 63o, andAlliance  Property Co. Ltd. v. Shaffer, (1948) 2  K.B.	464,referred to.Residence  Ltd.	 v. Surendra Mohan, A.I.R.  1951  Cal.	126,considered.The  purpose which the legislature had in view	in  enactingthe  Act  and the wide terms in which it  defined  the	term'premises'  leave  no  manner of doubt	that  its  operativeprovisions were intended to have a wide application and	 themere  putting  in  of  a term in the  lease,  not  in  termsprovided  for by any of the clauses of S. 9, could not	takethe tenancy out of the scope of the Act and it would be	 theduty  of the Court, in order that the provisions of the	 Actmight  have full effect, to give as wide an  application  tothem as was permissible under the Act.Where,	as  in the instant case, the lease  provided  for  aconsolidated  monthly  rent, the Rent Controller  and  otherauthorities  under the Act were empowered by the  provisionsof  cl.	 (g)  of s. 9 to determine the standard	 rent  on  aconsideration of all the payments that constitued the agreedrent  and  they did not prohibit a recourse  to	 such  otherprovisions of the Act as could be applied, either in part oras a whole, in arriving at a fair and reasonable rent.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 32 to 34 of1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedSeptember  5,  1952,  of the Calcutta High  Court  in  CivilRevision cases Nos. 3257, 3258 and 3259 of 1951 arising	 outof the order dated September 7, 1951, of the Court of  SmallCauses at Calcutta, 4th Bench, in Rent Appeal Nos. 115,	 743and 744 of 1951.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, D. N. Mookerjiand Sukumar Ghose, for the appellant.S.C. Janah and S.N. Mookerji, for the respondent.1956.	November 9. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbySINHA J.-Thesubstantial question for determination in  thesethree analogous appeals by special leave22is  whether  the  provisions  of s. 9  of  the	West  BengalPremises  Rent	Control	 (Temporary  Provisions)  Act,	1950(which	hereinafter will be referred to as "the Act")  applyto  the	 three promises which formed the subject  matter  ofthree separate proceedings in the courts below; and, if	 so,which clause thereof.  The common landlord is the  appellantin each case the respondent in each case being the tenant ofthe particular tenement.In  order to appreciate the points of law at  issue  betweenthe  parties,  it is necessary to state the  relevant  factsshorn  of  all details relating to the basic  rent  and	 thestandard rent fixed at different stages of the	proceedings.Those  details	are not necessary for the  determination  ofthese appeals.	The undisputed facts are that the  appellantis  seized  and	 possessed  of	several	 municipal  holdingscollectively  known  as	 the Karnani  Mansions,	 25-A,	ParkStreet,	 together  with adjoining premises situated  at	 thejunction  of Park Street and Free School Street in the	cityof  Calcutta.  There are about 210 flats of different  typesand  shop-rooms	 in  the  said	Karnani	 Mansions  let	 outseparately  to	tenants.  The tenant in each  of  the  threecases  leading	up  to the appeals in this  Court  had	beeninducted  by the predecessor-in-title of the appellant.	  Ineach case the tenancy consisted of a single room, a bath anda covered verandah.  The tenant has also the use of a numberof  fans,  plug	 points, towel racks,  besides	a  basin,  acommode	 and  a	 glass shelf.  The  landlord  also  supplieswithout	  any  additional  charge  electrical	energy	 forconsumption by the tenant for the use of lamps, fans, radio,ovens	 for   cooking,	  for	ironing,   laundering	 andrefrigerators.	The landlord is also responsible for repairsof the electric installations and sanitary fittings, as alsofor  supplying	service of night guards,  sweepers,  liftmenetc.   The  tenant  in each case  applied  before  the	RentController  of Calcutta under s. 9 read with Schedule  A  ofthe Act for fixation of standard rent in respect of the flatoccupied  by  the  applicant.	The  landlord  resisted	 theapplication  on	 the  ground,  inter  alia,  that  the	RentController  was not authorised by the Act to deal  with	 thetenancies in question because23the  premises were outside the scope of the Act; that  therehad  been  a great increase in the cost of  maintenance,  asalso  of  repairs  and replacements of	electric  and  otherinstallations,	 that	there  had   been   a	considerableenhancement  of the charge for electricity supplied  by	 theCalcutta Electric Supply Corporation Ltd. and of  Governmentduty on the same; that if the court held that these premiseswere  governed by the' provisions of the Act,  the  landlordwas  entitled to proportionate increase in respect of  thosecharges;  that the fact that the Act does not make  specificprovision  for	increasing the rent with  reference  to	 thecharges	 aforesaid would also point to the  conclusion	thatthe Act was not intended to the applied to the tenancies  inquestion.   The	 Rent Controller  after	 having	 inspections-made  of the premises in question fixed a standard rent  inaccordance  with  the rules laid down in Schedule A  to	 theAct.   The  rent thus standardized was to take	effect	fromSeptember 1, 1950.. The appellant preferred an appeal to theChief Judge of the Small Cause Court, Calcutta, against	 theaforesaid  order  of  the Rent	Controller.   The  AppellateAuthority  allowed the landlord's appeal in part by  settingthe standard rent at a higher figure than that arrived at bythe Rent Controller by applying the provisions of cl. (g) ofs.  9.	The  Appellate	Authority  aforesaid  negatived	 thelandlord's   contention	 that  the  premises   in   questionproviding the special services and amenities aforesaid	wereoutside	 the ambit of the Act.	It gave the landlord  reliefin  respect of the higher charges for  electric	 consumptionand Government duty aforesaid.	The standard rent thus fixedby  the	 appellate authority was in excess of  the  originalrent  agreed between the parties.  The tenant in  each	casemoved	the  High  Court  of  Calcutta	in  its	  revisionaljurisdiction.	The learned single Judge of the High  Court,who heard the revisional applications allowed them in  part,giving	effect	virtually,  though  not	 entirely,  to	 thedecision of the Rent Controller and holding that cl. (g)  ofs.  9  of  the	Act  was not  attracted	 to  the  facts	 andcircumstances of the cases before the court.  He relied upona  Division  Bench ruling of the same Court in the  case  ofResidence24Ltd. v.	 Surendra Mohan(1), which, it is agreed at the	Bar,is  on	all fours with the facts and  circumstances  of	 thepresent	 case.	After the rejection by the High Court of  ofthe appellant's petition for a certificate under Art. 133 ofthe  Constitution,  the appellant obtained from	 this  Courtspecial	 leave to appeal on common questions of law.   Hencethe  appeals  in each of these three cases have	 been  heardtogether. In these appeals the learned Solicitor General appearing onbehalf of the appellant raised substantially two points	 fordetermination,	namely, (1) that the Act does not  apply  tothe premises in question in view of the specify incidents ofthe  tenancy as disclosed in the terms of the lease  in	 thestandard  form as exhibited in Civil Appeal No. 42  of	1955(Exhibit J) between the appellant and Miss M. Augustin,	 andas found by the courts of fact below; and (2) alternatively,that  if the Court were to come to the conclusion  that	 thepremises  in  question	were within the ambit  of  the	Act,clause	(g)  of s. 9 should be applied to the  tenancies  inquestion as determined by the appellate authority aforesaid.Adverting  to  the  first  point raised	 on  behalf  of	 theappellant,  we have to notice an argument which	 was  raisedfor  the first time before 'us, namely, that the  definitionof " premises " in s. 2 (8) would not in terms apply to	 thetenements in question and that if any provisions of the	 Actcould  be attracted totes cases, cl. (3) of s. 2 defining  "hotel or lodging house " could more appropriately be appliedto  the tenancies in question.	As this point in  this	formhas  not  been	raised in the courts below or  even  in	 thestatement  of the case in this Court, we refuse to  go	intothat  question,	 even  assuming that  the  controversy	thusraised	does not require any fresh findings of fact.   Thesecases  have  not  been fought on that  ground  and,  in	 ouropinion,  it  is  too late to raise for	 the  first  time  acontroversy in that form.  We have therefore to examine	 thequestion whether the definition of " Premises " as containedins.   2 (8) of the Act is not comprehensive enough to be(1) A.1.R. 1951 Cal- 12625applicable  to	these  cases.  The definition  is  in  theseterms:-"  premises' means any building or part of a building or anyhut or part of a hut let separately and includes-(a)the gardens, grounds and out-houses (if any) appertainingto  such building or part of a building or hut or part of  ahut,(b)any	furniture  supplied or any fittings affixed  by	 thelandlord for use of the tenant in such building or part of abuilding  or  hut or part of a hut, but does not  include  aroom or part of a room or other accommodation in a hotel  orlodging house or a stall in a municipal market as defined inclause (44) of s. 3 of the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1923,  orin  any other market maintained by or belonging to  a  localauthority  or  a stall let at variable	rents  at  differentseasons	 of  the year for the retail sale of  goods  in	 anyother  market  as  defined in clause (39) of  s.  3  of	 theCalcutta Municipal Act, 1923, or clause (30) of s. 3 of	 theBengal Municipal Act, 1932 ".It has been contended for the appellant that premises " thusdefined do not include tenements with the special facilitiesand  conveniences agreed by the landlord to be	supplied  tothe  tenants.  In this connection reference was made to	 thedefinition  of	" premises " as contained  in  the  previouslegislation  like  the Calcutta Rent Act (Bengal  Act  III),1920,  the  Calcutta  House Rent Control  Order,  1943,	 theCalcutta  Rent Ordinance (No.  V), 1946 and the West  BengalPremises Rent Control (Temporary Provisions) Act, XXXVIII of1948, which has been replaced by the Act.  It will serve  nouseful	 purpose  to  go  into	the  ramifications  of	 thedefinitions  in	 the different pieces of  legislation  whichdeal with the same subject matter.  We have to construe	 theAct as it stood.  The Act has now been replaced by the	WestBengal	Premises  Tenancy Act (Act XII), 1956.	 But  it  isagreed	at the Bar that we are concerned with the Act as  itstood  before  it  was replaced by the	Act  of	 1956.	 Thedefinition  of	"  premises " set out above is in very	wideterms426and includes not only gardens, grounds and outhouse, if any,appertaining  to a building or part of a building, but	alsofurniture supplied by the landlord for the tenants' use	 andany  fittings affixed to the building, thus indicating	thatthe legislature was providing for all kinds of letting.	 Thedefinition  of	" premises " and "hotel	 or  lodging  house"between	 them almost exhaust the whole field covered by	 therelationship   of  landlord  and  tenant,  subject  to	 theexceptions noted in the definition of "premises."It is admitted at the Bar that the tenancies in question areregulated  by the terms and conditions appearing in  ExhibitJ,  the	 most  important  of which  is	clause	(1)  in	 thefollowing terms:-" That the tenant shall occupy the said flat paying thereforunto the Bank a monthly rent of Rs. 100 including hire of  2A.C.  fans  and extra Government duty  on  electric  currentwithout any reduction or abatement to be paid at the Bank onor before the 7th of succeeding month for which the rent  isdue  and  that	the said rent is inclusive  of	charges	 forcurrent	 for  fans,  lights, radio and	electric  stove	 notexceeding  600 Watts for heating meals and making tea  only,use  of lift, hot and cold water, the owner  and  occupier'sshares of Municipal Taxes."It  is clear from the terms of the clause quoted above	thatthe landlord was to place at the disposal of the tenants notonly electric installation including fans but also  electriccurrent	 to  be consumed in the use of	those  installationsetc.,  besides radio and electric stove. it was argued	thatthe tenancy comprised not only buildings and structures	 andpermanent  fixtures but also. the supply of  electric  powerwithout any fresh charge for the same.	It was also  pointedout that s. 9 dealing with fixation of standard rent did notin  terms contemplate the enhancement or reduction  of	rentaccording  as the rates for electric current and  Governmentduty thereon were enhanced or reduced. it is true that	noneof  the cls. (a) to (f) of s. 9 has any reference  to  theseconsiderations Clause (b) makes a specific reference only toincrease in municipal taxes,27rates  or cesses.  But then there is the residuary  cl.	 (g)and the question whether that clause applies to the  presentcases  will have to be discussed separately when the  secondpoint in controversy will be taken up for consideration.  Itis  enough to point out at this stage that  the	 legislaturewas  conscious that contingencies may arise which would	 notbe  covered by any of the specific cls;. (a) to (f) of s.  9which  is  the	operative section in  the  Act	relating  tofixation  of  standard rent.  Under this head  the  questionreduces	 itself	 to.  this: whether,  if  by  a	 stipulationbetween the landlord and the tenant the' landlord agrees  toprovide	 for  additional amenities like electric  power	 forconsumption and such other facilities, the case is taken outof the operation of the Act.  The Act is intended " to	makebetter	provision for the control of rents of premises."  Ithas  defined "premises" in very wide terms, as	pointed	 outabove.	Hence it is difficult, if not impossible, to  acceptthe contention that the legislature intended the  provisionsof the Act to have a limited application depending upon	 theterms  which an astute landlord may be able to	impose	uponhis  tenants.	In  order  fully  to  give  effect  to	 theprovisions  of the statute, the court has to give  them	 thewidest application possible within the terms of the statute.Having	those considerations in view, we do not	 think	thatthe  ,supply  of  the amenities	 aforesaid  would  make	 anydifference to the application of the Act to the premises  inquestion.   In this connection reference may be made to	 thedecision  of  the -Court of Apeal in the  case	of  PropertyHolding	 Co-.	Ltd.  --v.   Clark (1)-	 and'  the  case  ofAlliance  Property Co. Ltd.  V. Shaffer (2)  which  followedthe earlier decision to the effect that if the	stipulationsbetween landlord and tenant include payment of rent for	 notonly  what may properly be characterized as premises  withinthe  ordinary  acceptation of the term but also	 payment  inrespect	 of lighting cooking equipment, the  furnishing	 andcleaning  of  hall and staircase and certain  other  similaramenities,  the sum total of the payments in respect of	 thebuilding  or  part -of the building and other  services	 andamenities constitute(2)[1948] 2 K. B.(1) [1948] 1 K.B. 630.28rent.	In the earlier case of Property Holding Co. Ltd.  v.Clark  (supra)	the  facts, shortly stated,  were  that	 theagreement  between  the landlord and the tenant	 in  writingprovided for the payment of pound 110 a year as rent and  anadditional  payment  of pound 30 a year in  respect  of	 theadditional  amenities  and conveniences	 like  lighting	 andcooking	 equipments,  furnishing and cleaning  of  hall	 andstaircase etc.	In an action for rent by the landlord at therate of pound 140 a year the tenant contended that the	rentproper was only pound 110 and not the total sum of pound 140a  year	 payable on all counts, as aforesaid..The  Court  ofAppeal	allowed	 the  landlord's appeal and  held  that	 thestandard rent was pound 140 and not only pound 110.  In	 thecourse of his judgment Asquith L.J. adopted the language  ofYounger	 L. J. in the case of Wilkes v. Goodwin (1)  to	 thefollowing effect:-"The first of these (considerations) is that the word Arent'in this exception surely means not rent in the strict  sensebut the total payment -under the instrument of letting.	 Theexception  assumes  that 'rent' so called may  include,	 forexample,  'board', payment of which is not rent.  I am	hereparaphrasing  the statement of Shearman J. in Nye  v.  Davis(2)with which I agree."Their  Lordships  of  the  Court  of  Appeal  repelled	 thecontention that the additional payment was not part of	rentand  held  that	 the payment in respect	 of  the  additionalamenities aforesaid was also part of rent within the meaningof  the	 English Act which corresponds to  the	Bengal	Act.Those English decisions are authorities for the	 propositionthat  "rent" included not only-what is ordinarily  describedas rent in an agreement between a landlord and a tenant	 butalso payment in respect of special amenities provided by thelandlord  under	 the agreement between him and	his  tenant.The  term "rent" has not been defined in the Act.  Hence  itmust  be taken to have been used in its ordinary  dictionarymeaning.   If, as already indicated, the term it, rent "  iscomprehensive  enough to include all payment;.agreed by	 thetenant to be paid to his landlord for the use and occupationnot only of the building and(1) [1923] 2 K.B. 105.(2) [1922] 2 K.B. 56.29its  appurtenances  but also of	 furnishings,  electric	 in-stallations  and other amenities agreed between the  partiesto  be	provided by and at the cost of	the  land-lord,	 theconclusion is irresistible that all that is included in	 theterm  "rent" is within the purview of the Act and  the	RentController  and other authorities had the power	 to  controlthe  same.  In view of these considerations we overrule	 thefirst- contention raised on behalf of the appellant.But the second contention raised on behalf of the appellant,in  our opinion, is well founded. "Standard  rent"  has been defined in el. (10) of s.  2  asfollows:standard rent' in relation to any premises means-(a)the	standard  rent determined in  accordance.  with	 theprovisions of Schedule A;(b)where  the  rent has been fixed under s. 9, the  rent  sofixed;	or at which it would have been fixed if	 applicationwere made under the said section;...........This  is a definition by in corpation of the  provisions  ofSchedule A and of s. 9. it is common ground that no standardrent had- so far been determined in respect of the  premisesin question before the present proceedings were commenced atthe  instance of the respective tenants.  Schedule A to	 theAct in clause (1) defines "basic rent" and then cl. (2) laysdown  the formulae for determination of standard  rent	oncethe basic rent has been arrived at.  The tenant in each casein  the present appeals invoked the provisions of s. 9	readwith Schedule A of the Act for fixing the standard rent	 fortheir respective premises.  The question arises which clauseor  clauses apply to the terms of the tenancy  as  indicatedabove.	 Clause (a) cannot apply because it cannot  be	saidthat  "There is no cause for the alteration of the  rate  ofstandard  rent as determined according to the  schedule	 forany  of the reasons mentioned in the following	clauses,  inaccordance  with the provisions of Schedule A." It  has	 notbeen  denied that electric charges and the  Government	dutythereon have been enhanced and that the municipal taxes alsohave been increased.  Clause (b) also in terms cannot  applybecause30it  does  not by itself entirely cover the  cases  in  hand.There  has  been increase not only. in municipal  taxes	 butalso  in  electric  charges,  Government  duty	on  electricconsumption  and  in  the cost of  the	other  services	 andamenities  specially provided for by the  agreement  betweenthe  parties.  Clause (c) is out of the way of	the  partiesbecause	 there	is no question of  addition,  alteration  orimprovement   in  the  premises.   Clause(d)  is   similarlyinapplicable because it is nobody's case that any  furniturenot  already provided by the landlord has been	supplied  toany -of the premise,% for the use of the tenant.  Clause (e)also  has not been claimed by either party to be  applicablebecause	 the special circumstances contemplated therein	 arenot   found   in  these	 cases.	  Clause  (f)	is   clearlyinapplicable  because  the  premises  had  been	 constructedadmittedly  much earlier than December 31, 1949.   The	onlyremaining clause is el. (g) which is in these terms:- " Where no provisions of this Act for fixing standard	rentapply to any 'Premises, by determining the standard rent  ata rate " which is fair and reasonable."It  will appear from the terms of the contract	between	 thelandlord  and  the tenant in each  case,  particularly	fromclause	(1)  of the agreement quoted hereinbefore  that	 theland-lord  has not only agreed to supply electric and  otherinstallations but also electric power and other services forwhich  no separate  payment has been stipulated It  has	 notbeen  denied as a matter of fact, coun' Sol for the  tenats-respondents  clearly admitted-that the rent fixed  'in	eachcase  included	payment for those additional  amenities	 andservices  though  the amounts in respect of them  have	beenseparately  shown  in the agreement.  The rent fixed  was  aconsolidated sum for all those amenities and services, as isclearly stated in para.1 of the agreement set out above' Buteven  after making that concession the learned	counsel	 forthe  respondents  strongly  relied upon the  decision  of  aDivision  Bench of the Calcutta High Court given on  LettersPatent	Appeal	from a judgment of a single  Judge  of	thatCourt, in Residence, Ltd. v. Surendra It has been  laid-downin that case that the(1)  A.I.R. 1951 Cal. 126.31Act  is applicable to a tenancy the terms of which  includedsuch  additional  conveniences and facilities as  have	beenprovided  by the landlord in these cases.  We  have  alreadyindicated that we agree with that conclusion.  But the	casealso  lays down the proposition that what is paid.  as	rentfor the flat does not include any payment for the additionalfacilities and conveniences provided by the landlord for theuse  of the tenant.  In this connection the High Court	madethe following observations:-"  In  my  judgment when a flat is let,	 with  the  landlordagreeing  to provide certain free services, what is  let  isthe  flat  and what is paid is paid for the  flat  with	 thelandlord  providing certain amenities or performing  certainobligation.   What is paid is rent for the flat and no	partof. it can be truly regarded as payment for the services."With all due deference to the views the views thus expressedby that very experienced and learned Judge, we cannot  agreethat  those observations correctly represent the true  legalposition.   As	a  matter of fact,  the	 learned  Judge	 hasreferred to with approval the judgments of the Appeal  Courtand  of	 the King's Bench Division in  the  cases  mentionedabove  to show that the term "rent" is comprehensive  enoughto  include not only rent in the narrower sense of the	termas ordinarily understood but also payment in respect of	 theadditional  conveniences and amenities.	 The  learned  Judgegoes on to make the following observations:-" If he has undertaken obligations by the tenancy  agreementthe monthly payment or the yearly payment as the case may bewould  be suitably adjusted.  That, however, would not	makethe monthly or yearly payment any the less rent."The  two  parts of the observations quoted above  cannot  bereconciled  unless it can be said that the learned Judge  isusing  the  word  "rent" not in the same sense	but  in	 itsdifferent  connotations	 according to the context.   If	 thelearned	 Judge	used the word "rent"  in  its  comprehensivesense  in -which the Act must. be construed as	having	usedthat term, this part of the32judgment  cannot  be  said to  be  against  the	 appellant'scontention  that  the  standard	 rent  must  be	 fixed	withreference to all the constituents which made up the lump sumas  fixed in each case as rent.	 This position	emerges	 notonly   from  a	consideration  of  the	legal  position	  incontemplation  of  the Act, but also from the terms  of	 theagreement between the parties, as indicated above.The  provisions	 of el. (g) of a. 9 of the Act	empower	 theRent  Controller and the other authorities under the Act  todetermine the standard rent after taking into  considerationall  the constituents which make up the total sum  shown  inthe  agreement	as  monthly  rent.   Those  authorities	 areauthorised  to determine rent which is fair and	 reasonable.In thus arriving at a fair and reasonable rent they are	 notprecluded from having recourse to such of the provisions  ofthe Act as may be found applicable either in their  entiretyor  in	so  far as they can be made  applicable.   The	RentController  gave the landlord credit only for the amount  bywhich the municipal taxes had been increased and no more, byapplying  the provisions of cl. (b) of s. 9.  The  AppellateAuthority  on the other hand, applied the provisions of	 el.(g)  of	 s. 9 by determining the fair  and  reasonable	rentafter  taking  into  consideration the	fact  that  electriccharges	 as  also  Government duty  on	the  consumption  ofelectric  power	 had  been increased.  So had  the  cost  ofproviding for the other amenities and services.	 In view  ofour  conclusion	 that the residuary el. (g) applies  to	 theterms  of  the tenancy in these cases, it follows  that	 thedecision  of the Appellate Authority was more in  consonancewith  the  provisions  of  cl. (g) than	 that  of  the	RentController  or of the High Court. As the figures arrived  atby  the Appellate Authority have not been challenged  beforeus, we would direct, that the orders passed by it should  berestored  and  those  of  the High Court  and  of  the	RentController set aside.The  appeal  is	 accordingly allowed in	 part  as  indicatedabove.	 But in view of the directions of this Court at	 thetime  of  granting  the	 special  leave,  even	though	 theappellant is successful in this Court, he33must  pay the costs of the respondents, one set	 of  hearingfee to be equally divided amongst the three respondents.Appeal allowed in part.