PETITIONER:P.   BALAKOTAIAH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS(and connected appeals)DATE OF JUDGMENT:03/12/1957BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABOSE, VIVIANDAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  232		  1958 SCR 1052ACT:   Railway   Services-Rules   for   safeguarding    nationalsecurity-Constitutionality-Employee  engaged  in  subversiveactivity-Termination  of  Service-Validity-Railway  Services(Safeguarding  of  National  Security) Rules,  1949,  R.  3,7--Constitution of India, Arts. 14,19(1)(c), 311.HEADNOTE:   The Services of the appellants who were Railway servants,were terminated for reasons of national security under S.  3of the Railway Services (Safeguarding of National  Security)Rules,	1949.  Notices served on them under that section  toshow cause charged them as follows:-   "Whereas in the opinion of the...... General Manager, youare reasonably suspected to be a member and office secretaryof the B. N. Rly., Workers' Union (Communist sponsored)	 andwere  thickly associated with communists such as Om  PrakashMehta,	B.  N. Mukherjee, R. L. Reddi, etc.,  in  subversiveactivities  in	such manner as to raise	 doubts	 about	yourreliability  and  loyalty  to the State in  that,  though  aGovernment  employee, you attended private meetings  of	 theCommunists, carried on agitation amongst the Railway workersfor  a	general strike from November 1948  to  January	1949evidently   to	paralyse  communication	 and   movement	  ofessential supplies and thereby create disorder and confusionin  the	 country and that, consequently, you are  liable  tohave  your  services  terminated under rule 3  Of  the	saidRules".	  Orders  of suspension were passed on	them.	Theymade  their representations.  The committee of	Advisers  onenquiry and after examining them found that the charges weretrue and the General Manager acting on its report terminatedthe services of the appellants, giving them a month's salaryin  lieu  of notice.  The appellants moved  the	 High  Courtunder  Art. 226 of the Constitution and contended  that	 theSecurity Rules contravened Arts. 14, 19(1)(c) and 311 of theConstitution  and  as  such  the  orders  terminating  theirservices  were	void.	The High Court did  not	 decide	 theConstitutional validity of the Security Rules and  dismissedthe petitions on other grounds.   Held, that the words 'subversive activities'occurring  inRule  3	 Of the Railway Services (Safeguarding	of  NationalSecurity)  Rules, 1949, in the context of the  objective  ofnational security which they have in view, are	sufficientlyprecise in import to			    1053sustain	 a  valid  classification and  the  Rules  are	not,therefore,invalid  as  being  repugnant to Art.	 14  of	 theConstitution.    Ananthanarayanan v. Southern Railway, A. I. R. 1956 Mad.220, disapproved.    The	 charge	 shows	that action was	 taken	against	 theappellants  not	 because  they	were  Communists  or   tradeunionists  but	because	 they  were  engaged  in  subversiveactivities.   The  orders terminating their  services  couldnot,.	therefore,   contravene	  Art.	 19(1)(c)   of	 theConstitution  since they did not infringe any of the  rightsof the appellants guaranteed by that Article which  remainedprecisely what they were before.    Article  311  of the Constitution can  apply  only	whenthere  is  an  order  of dismissal  or	removal	 by  way  ofpunishment.   As the terms of employment of  the  appellantsprovided that their services could be terminated on a propernotice and R. 7 Of the Security Rules preserved such  rightsas benefits of pension, gratuities and the like to which  anemployee  might be entitled under the service  rules,  therewas neither premature termination nor forfeiture of benefitsalready acquired so as to amount to punishment.	 The  order'terminating  the services under R. 3 Of the  Security  Rulesstood on the same footing as an order of discharge under  R.148 of the Railway Establishment Code and was neither one ofdismissal nor removal within the meaning of Art. 311 of	 theConstitution.  Article 311 had, therefore, no application.    Parshotam  Lal Dhingra v. Union of India,  Civil  AppealNo. 65 Of 1957, relied on.    Satish Chandra Anand v. Union of India, [1953] S. C.  R.655,  Shyam Lal v. The State of Uttar Pradesh and the  Unionof  India,  [1955]  1 S. C. R. 26 and  State  of  Bombay  v.Saubhagchand  M.  Doshi,  Civil	 Appeal	 No.  182  Of  1955,referred to.    Although the Rules are clearly prospective in character,materials  for taking action against an employee  thereundermay be drawn from his conduct prior to the enactment of	 theRules.    The Queen v. St. Mary, Whitechapel, (1848) 12 Q. B.	 120and The Queen v. Christchurch, [1848] 12 Q. B. 149, referredto.JUDGMENT:    CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil AppealsNos. 46 to 48 of 1956.    Appeals  from the judgment and order dated November	 16,1951,  of the former Nagpur High Court in  Misc.   PetitionsNos. 45,1568 and 1569 of 1951.   H.	  J. Umrigar, D. L. Jayawant and Naunit Lal, for theappellants in C. A. Nos. 46 and 47 of 56.   D.	  L. Jayawant and Naunit Lal, for the appellant inC. A. No. 48 of 56.1054   R.	  Ganapathi  Iyer and R. H. Dhebar, for the  respon-dent (In all the appeals).   1957.   December 3. The following Judgment of  the  Courtwas delivered by    VENKATARAMA AIYAR J.-These appeals are directed  againstthe  orders of the High Court of Nagpur dismissing the	writpetitions filed by the appellants herein, and as they  ariseout  of	 the  same  facts and  raise  the  same	 points	 fordetermination,	they  were  heard  together,  and  will	  bedisposed of by a common judgment.   The facts in Civil Appeal No. 46 of 1956-the facts in theconnected  appeals  are	 similar and do not  require  to  bestated-are  that the appellant was employed in 1939  in	 theBengal Nagpur Railway as a clerk in the workshop at  Nagpur.In  1946 when the State took over the administration of	 theRailway,  it  gave option to the employees  to	continue  inservice	 on  the terms set out in a document dated  July  5,1946.	The appellant accepted those terms and continued  inservice	 on  the  conditions  mentioned	 in  that  document.Acting	in exercise of the powers conferred by	ss.  241(2),247  and  266(3) of the Government of India Act,  1935,	 theGovernor-General   promulgated	certain	 rules	called	 theRailway Services (Safeguarding of National Security)  Rules,1949,  hereinafter  referred to as the Security	 Rules,	 andthey came into force on May 14, 1949.   It  will  be	 convenient at this stage  to  set  out	 theSecurity  Rules,  in  so far as they are  material  for	 thepurpose	 of  these appeals, as it is the validity  of  theserules that is the main point for determination by us.  Rules3, 4, 5 and 7 are as follows:   3.	  "  A	member of the Railway Service  who,  in	 theopinion	 of  the  competent authority is engaged  in  or  isreasonably suspected to be engaged in subversive activities,or  is	associated with others in subversive  activities  insuch manner as to raise doubts about his reliability, may becompulsorily  retired  from  service, or  have	his  serviceterminated  by	the competent authority after  he  has	beengiven due notice or pay in			    1055lieu  of  such notice in accordance with the  terms  of	 hisservice agreement:   Provided  that a member of the Railway Service shall	 notbe  so retired or have his service so terminated unless	 thecompetent  authority  is  satisfied that  his  retention  inpublic	service	 is prejudicial to  national  security,	 andunless,	 where	the  competent authority is the	 Head  of  aDepartment,  the prior approval of the Governor-General	 hasbeen obtained.   4.	  Where	 in the opinion of the competent  authority,there are reasonable grounds for believing that a member  ofthe Railway Service is liable to compulsory retirement	fromservice	 or to have his service terminated under Rule 3,  itshall-   (a)	  by an order in writing, require the said member ofRailway	 service  to  proceed  on  such	 leave	as  may	  beadmissible to him and from such date as may be specified  inthe order;   (b)	  by  a notice in writing inform him of	 the  actionproposed to be taken in regard to him under Rule 3;   (c)	  give him a reasonable opportunity of showing causeagainst that action ; and   (d)	  before  passing a final order under Rule  3,	takeinto  consideration any representation made by him  in	thisbehalf.  5. Nothing  contained in the Rules in Chapter XVII of	 theState Railway Establishment Code, Volume 1, shall apply	 to,or  in respect of, any action taken or proposed to be  takenunder these rules.  7. Any  person compulsorily retired from service or  whoseservice is terminated under Rule 3 shall be entitled to suchcompensation,  pension,	 gratuity  and/	 or  Provident	Fundbenefits  as  would have been admissible to  him  under	 theRules applicable to his service or post on the date of	suchretirement  or	termination  of	 service  if  he  had	beendischarged  from  service due to the abolition of  his	postwithout any alternative suitable employment being provided."  On July 6, 1950, the General Manager of the Bengal  NagpurRailway issued a notice to the appellant1056under R. 3 of the Security Rules stating that in view of thefacts recited therein, there was reason to believe that	 theappellant  was engaged in subversive activities and  callingupon  him  to  show cause why his  services  should  not  beterminated.   He was also placed under suspension from	thatdate.  On July 29, 1950, the appellant sent his	 explanationdenying	 the allegations contained in the notice dated	July6,  1950.  The matter was then referred to the Committee  ofAdvisers, who held an enquiry on September 8,1950, and afterhearing	 the  appellant found that the charges	against	 himmentioned  in the notice were true.  Acting on this  report,the General Manager terminated the services of the appellanton  April 3, 1951, giving him one month's salary instead  ofnotice.  Meantime, on February 3,1951, the appellant had filed	 thewrit  petition,	 out of which Civil Appeal No.	46  of	1956arises, in the High Court of Nagpur challenging the validityof  the	 notice	 dated	July  6,  1950,	 and  the  order  ofsuspension following thereon.  The order of dismissal  datedApril  3, 195 1, having been passed during the	pendency  ofthis  Petition,	 the appellant had his petition	 amended  byadding	a prayer that that order also was bad.	The  groundsurged  in  support of the petition were	 that  the  SecurityRules under which action was taken were in contravention  ofArts.  14, 19 (1)(c) and 311 of the Constitution, and  that,in consequence, the orders passed in exercise of the  powersconferred  thereby were void.  The respondents resisted	 theapplication  on the ground that the rules in  question	werevalid,	and that the orders passed thereunder were not	opento attack.   The	petition was heard along with others, in  which	 thesame  questions	 were raised, and by  their  judgment  datedNovember  16,  1951,  the learned Judges held  that  it	 wasunnecessary  to decide whether the Security Rules were	voidas,  assuming  that they were, the  orders  terminating	 theservices of the petitioners could be sustained under R.	 148of the Railway Establishment Code.  Sub-rules (3) and (4) ofR. 148 which bear on this point, are as follows:1057   R.	  148(3) Other (non-pensionable) railway servants :   "The service of other (non-pensionable) railway  servantsshall be liable to termination on notice on. either side forthe  periods  shown  below.  Such notice  is  not,  however,required  in cases of summary dismissal or  discharge  underthe   provisions  of  service  agreements,   retirement	  onattaining  the	age of superannuation,	and  termination  ofservice due to mental or physical incapacity.   (4)	In  lieu of the notice prescribed in this  rule,  itshall  be  permissible	on the part  of	 the  Railway  Admi-nistration to terminate the service of a Railway servant  bypaying him the pay for the period of notice."The  learned  Judges  held that	 the  appellants  were	non-pensionable railway servants within sub-r.(3), that they hadbeen  paid  one month's wages instead of notice	 under	sub-r.(4), and that, accordingly, the impugned orders were intravires  the  powers of the respondents under R.	148,  sub-r.(3).   In the result, the petitions were dismissed, and	 thepresent appeals have been preferred against these orders  ona  certificate under Art. 132 (1) and Art. 133(1)(c) of	 theConstitution.   The	appellants  complain that the ground  on  which	 thejudgment proceeds was not put forward by the respondents  intheir pleadings and should not have been allowed to be takenby them, and that on the points actually in issue, it shouldhave  been  held that the Security Rules were  repugnant  toArts.  14,  19(1)  (c) and 311	of  the	 Constitution,	and,therefore,  void.   They further contend that  even  if	 theSecurity  Rules	 were  valid,  the  orders  terminating	 theservices were not justified by them, and that further, thoseorders	were bad for the reason that they had not been	madeby the competent authorities.  The appellants also sought toraise  the  contention	that the enquiry  conducted  by	 theauthorities  was  defective, and that there  was  no  properhearing	 as provided by the rules, but we declined  to	hearthem  on  that	point,	as that	 was  not  raised  in  theirpetitions.1058The points for decision in these appeals are:    (I)	  Whether the orders terminating the services of theappellants  can	 be  upheld  under R.  148  of	the  RailwayEstablishment Code;    (II)Whether the Security Rules are bad as infringing (a)Art.  14,  (b)	Art.  19(1)(c)	and  (c)  Art.	311  of	 theConstitution;    (III)Whether  the  impugned orders are not	valid,	evenaccording to the Security Rules; and    (IV)  Whether  those  orders  were	not  passed  by	 thecompetent authorities.  (1).	  On the first question, it appears clearly from therecord	that the authorities purported to take	action	onlyunder  the Security Rules. - The notice dated July 6,  1950,was  avowedly issued under R. 3 of those rules.	 It  was  inthe  scrupulous	 observance  of	 the  procedure	  prescribedtherein that the explanations of the appellants in answer tothe charges were taken, and the matters were referred to theCommittee  of  Advisers	 for enquiry.  And  above  all,	 theorders terminating the services of the appellants, in terms,recite	that they were made under R. 3 of the rules, as	 forexample,  the  notice  dated April 3,  1951,  given  to	 theappellant  in  Civil Appeal No. 46 of 1956,  which  runs  asfollows:"I  have  considered your representation to me in  reply  tothis  office letter No. Con/T/2 I /MP/82 dated 6-7-1950	 andam  of the opinion that you are engaged and associated	withothers in subversive activities in such mariner as to  raisedoubts	about  your reliability and am satisfied  that	yourretention  in  public  service is  prejudicial	to  nationalsecurity.   I  have decided with the prior approval  of	 thePresident that your services should be terminated under Rule3   of	the  Railway  Services	(Safeguarding  of   NationalSecurity) Rules, 1949.	"It should be added that while the appellants stated in theirpetitions that action had been taken against them under	 theSecurity  Rules, and that those rules were ultra vires,	 therespondents did not plead that			    1059action	was taken under R. 148 of the Railway  EstablishmentCode.	They  only contended that the  Security	 Rules	werevalid.	 In view of the above,the criticism of	Mr.  Umrigarfor  the appellants that the judgment under appeal  proceedson a ground which was, not merely, not in the  contemplationof the authorities When they passed the orders in  question,but was not even raised in the pleadings in  Court,  is	 notwithout substance.It is argued that when an authority passes an order which iswithin	its  competence, it cannot fail	 merely	 because  itpurports  to be made under a wrong pro. vision if it can  beshown to be within its powers under any other rule, and thatthe validity of an order should be judged on a considerationof  its	 substance and not its form.  No  exception  can  betaken  to,  this  proposition,	but  it	 has  not  been	 thecontention  of the respondents at any stage that the  ordersin question were really made under R. 148(3) of the  RailwayEstablishment  Code, and that the reference to R. 3  of	 theSecurity  Rules in the proceedings might be  disregarded  asdue  to	 mistake.  In the Court below,	the  learned  Judgesrested	their conclusion on the ground that cl. (10) of	 theservice	 agreement  dated  July 5, 1946,  provided  that  inrespect of matters other than those specifically dealt	withtherein-discharge  is one of such other matters-the  Railwayrules applicable to persons appointed on or after October 1,1946 were applicable, that R. 148(3) was one of such  rules,and  that  the appellants who were  non-pensionable  railwayservants  were governed by that rule, and were liable to  bedischarged  in	accordance therewith.	But  this  reasoningignores	 that under cl. (10) of the service  agreement,	 theSecurity Rules stand on the same footing as the rules in theRailway	 Establishment Code and constitute equally  with  R.148  the conditions of service on which the appellants	heldthe  employment,  and there must be convincing	reasons	 whyorders passed statedly under R. 3 should be held not to havebeen  passed under that rule.  Before us, a different  standwas taken by the respondents.  They did not11351060dispute	 that the action was really taken under R. 3 of	 theSecurity Rules, but they argued that the power to  terminatethe service under r. 3 was not something ;different from andindependent of the power to discharge, conferred by R.	148,and  that an order passed under R. 3 was, on its own  terms,one made under R. 148(3).  The basis for this contention  isthe provision in R. 3 that the service may be terminated  inaccordance  with  the service agreement,  after	 giving	 duenotice or. pay in lieu of such notice.   The	appellants controvert this position.   They  contendthat  the power to terminate the service under the  SecurityRules  is altogether different from the power  to  dischargeunder  R.  148, that the reference in R. 3  to	the  serviceagreement  is  only in respect of the notice  to  be  given,there  being  different	 periods fixed under  the  rules  inrelation  to  different classes of employees, and  that,  inother  respects, the Security Rules run on their own  lines,and that action taken thereunder cannot be shunted on to  R.148.    We	find  'considerable difficulty in  acceding  to	 theargument of the respondents.  The Security Rules apply to  aspecial	 class	of employees, those who are engaged  or	 arelikely	 to   engage  in  subversive  activities,   and	  inconjunction  with  the instructions which were	issued	whenthey  were  promulgated,  they form  a	self-contained	codeprescribing   a	 special  and  elaborate  procedure  to	  befollowed,  when action is to : be taken thereunder.  We	 seeconsiderable force in the contention of the appellants	thattheof  the service agreement in R. 3 has reference only to	 thenature	of  the notice to be given.  If	 the  interpretationwhich  the respondents seek to put on the Security Rules  iscorrect,  then	it is difficult to see what purpose  at	 allthey  serve.  Mr. Ganapathy Iyer for the respondents  arguesthat  they are intended to afford protection to persons	 whomight	be   charged  with  being  engaged   in	  subversiveactivities.   If  that is their purpose, then if  action  istaken thereunder but the procedure prescribed therein is notfollowed,  the	Order  must  be	 held  to  be  bad,  as	 theprotection  intended  to  be given has been  denied  to	 theemployee,			    1061and R. 148 cannot be invoked to give validity to such order.Indeed, that has been held in Sambandam v. General  Manager,S.  I. Ry. (1) and Prasadi v. Works Manager, Lillooah (2)  ;and that is also conceded by .Mr.  Ganapathy Iyer.  If	thenthe power to terminate the service under the Security  Rulesis  different from the power to discharge under R. 148	whenthe procedure prescribed therein is not followed, it must beequally	 so  when, as here, it has been	 followed,  for	 thecomplexion of the rules cannot change according as they	 arecomplied  with or not.	That means that the  Security  Ruleshave an independent operation of their own, quite apart fromR.  148.   We do not, however, desire to express  any  finalopinion	 on this question, as Mr. Ganapathy Iyer is  willingthat  the  validity  of	 the orders  in	 question  might  bedetermined  on the footing that they were passed under R.  3of  the Security Rules, without reference to R.	 148.	Thatrenders	 it necessary to decide whether the  Security  Rulesare unconstitutional, as contended by the appellants.   (Ila).   The	 first	ground that  is	 urged	against	 thevalidity of the Security Rules is that they are repugnant toArt.  14.  It is said that these rules prescribe  a  specialprocedure  where  action  is proposed to  be  taken  againstpersons	 suspected of subversive activities, and  that	whenthe  services  of  an employee are  terminated	under  theserules,	the  consequence is to stamp him as  unreliable	 andinfamous,  and there is thus discrimination, such as is	 hitby  Art. 14.  It is admitted that if the persons dealt	withunder	these  rules  form  a  distinct	 class	 having	  anintelligible  differentia which bears a reasonable  relationto  the	 purposes  of  the rules, then	there  would  be  noinfringement of Art.14. But it is argued that the expression"  subversive  activities"  which forms	 the  basis  of	 theclassification	is vague and undefined in that	even  lawfulactivities   could  be	roped  therein,	 and  that  such   aclassification	cannot be said to be reasonable.   Referencewas  made to the charges which were served on the  appellantin  Civil Appeal No. 46 of 1956 as showing how	even  lawfulactivities(1)  I.L.R. [1953] Mad. 229.(2)  A.I.R. 1957 Cal. 4.1062could  be brought under the impugned rules.  The notice,  sofar as it is material, runs as follows:-   "  Whereas  in  the opinion	of  the............  General,Manager,  you are reasonably suspected to be a	 member	 andoffice	 secretary  of	the  B.	 N.  Rly.   Workers'   Union(Communist  sponsored)	and  were  thickly  associated	withcommunists  such as Om Prakash Mehta, B.N. Mukherjee, R.  L.Reddy,	etc., in subversive activities in such manner as  toraise doubts about your reliability and loyalty to the Statein that, though a Government employee, you attended  privatemeetings of the Communists, carried on agitation amongst theRailway	 workers for a general strike from November 1948  toJanuary	  1949	evidently  to  paralyse	 communication	 andmovement of essential supplies - and thereby create disorderand confusion in the country and that, consequently, you areliable to have your services terminated under rule 3 of	 thesaid Rules."   It  is argued that it is not unlawful to be a  member  ofthe Communist Party or to engage in trade union	 activities,and if this could form the basis of action under the  rules,the   classification  must  be	held  to  be   unreasonable.Reliance  was  placed on the decision of this Court  in	 TheState of West Bengal v. Anwar Ali Sarkar (1), wherein it washeld that a power conferred on the executive to select casesfor trial by special courts under a procedure different fromthat  of the ordinary courts with the object of	 ensuring  "speedy trial " could not be upheld under Art. 14 as a  validclassification, and on the decision of the Madras High Courtin  Ananthanarayanan v. Southern Railway(2), wherein it	 washold that the words " subversive activities " in R. 3 lackeddefiniteness.   Now,	 the  principles  applicable  for  a   determinationwhether there has been a proper and valid classification forpurposes  of Art. 14 have been the subject of  considerationby  this  Court in a number of cases, and they	were  statedagain  quite recently in Budhan Choudhry and others  v.	 TheState of Bihar(3), and there is no need to repeat them.	 Theonly point that(1) [1952] S.C.R. 284.	     (2) A.I.R. 1956 Mad. 220.(3)  [1955]1 S.C.R. 1045, 1049.			    1063calls  for decision in these appeals is whether the  classi-fication of persons on the basis of subversive activities istoo  vague to be the foundation of a  valid  classification.Mr.  Umrigar insists that it is, but his elaborate  argumentamounts	 to  no	 more  than  this  that	 the  expression   "subversive  activities	"  may take in quite  a	 variety  ofactivities,  and that its contents are therefore  wide.	  Itmay be that the connotation of that expression is wide,	 butthat  is  not to say that it is vague  or  indefinite.	 Butwhatever the position if the words "subversive activities  "had stood by them selves, they are sufficiently qualified inthe  Security Rules to be definite.  Those rules  have,	 fortheir  object,	the  safeguarding of  national	security  asrecited in the short title.  That is again emphasised in  R.3,  which provides that a member of the Railway	 service  isnot  to	 be retired or his services  terminated	 unless	 theauthorities  are  satisfied " that his retention  in  publicservice	 is  prejudicial  to national  security	 ".  In	 ourjudgment, the words " subversive activities " in the contextof  national  security	are sufficiently  precise  in  theirimport to sustain a valid classification.  We are unable  toagree  with  the opinion expressed  in	Ananthanarayanan  v.Southern Railway (supra) at p. 223 that the language of R. 3is  indefinite,	 even when read with the  words	 "  nationalsecurity".  We  are  also	 unable to agree with the  argument  of	 theappellants  based on the charges made against the  appellantin  Civil Appeal No. 46 of 1956 in the notice dated July  6,1950,  that the expression "subversive activities " is	wideenough	to  take  in lawful activities	as  well,  and	musttherefore  be  held  to	 be  unreasonable  for	purposes  ofclassification	under  Art.  14.  The notice,  it  is  true,refers	to  the appellant being a member  of  the  CommunistParty and to his activities in the trade union.	 It is	alsotrue  that it is not unlawful to be either a Communist or  atrade  unionist.   But	it is not  the	necessary  attributeeither	of  a Communist or a trade unionist that  he  shouldindulge in subversive activities, and when action was  takenagainst the appellant under the rules, it was not because hewas a1064Communist or a trade unionist, but because he was engaged insubversive activities.	We hold that the Security Rules	 arenot illegal as being repugnant -to ,a Art. 14.   (IIb).  It is next contended that the impugned orders arein  contravention of Art. 19(1)(c), and are therefore  void.The  argument  is  that action has been	 taken	against	 theappellants -under the rules, because they are Communists andtrade  unionists, and the orders terminating their  servicesunder R. 3 amount, in substance, to a denial to them of	 thefreedom to form associations, which is guaranted under	Art.19(1)(c).   We	have already observed that that is  not	 thetrue  scope of the charges.  But apart from that, we do	 notsee how any right of the appellants under Art. 19(1)(c)	 hasbeen  infringed.   The	orders	do  not	 prevent  them	fromcontinuing  to	be  Communists or  trade  unionists.   Theirrights	in  that  behalf remain after  the  impugned  ordersprecisely what they were before.  The real complaint of	 theappellants is that their services have been terminated;	 butthat involves, apart from Art. 31 1, no infringement of	 anyof  their  Constitutional rights.  The	appellants  have  nodoubt  a fundamental right to form associations	 under	Art.19(1)(c), but they have no fundamental right to be continuedin  employment	by the State, and when	their  services	 areterminated  by	the  State  they  cannot  complain  of	 theinfringement of any of their Constitutional rights, when  noquestion  of violation of Art. 311 arises.  This  contentionof the appellants must also be rejected.   (IIc).   'it is then contended that the  procedure  pres-cribed by the Security Rules for the hearing of the  chargesdoes not satisfy the requirements of Art. 311, and that theyare,  in  consequence, void.  But Art. 311  has	 applicationonly when there is an order of dismissal or removal, and thequestion is whether an order terminating the services of theemployees  under R. 3 can be said to be an order  dismissingor  removing them.  Now, this Court has held in a series  ofdecisions  that it is not every termination of the  servicesof an employee that falls within the operation of Art. 311,			    1065and  that it is only when the order is by way of  punishmentthat  it is one of dismissal or removal under that  Article.Vide  Satish Chandra Anand v. Union of India (1), Shyam	 Lalv.  The State of Uttar Pradesh and the Union of	 India	(2),State of Bombay v. Saubhagchand M. Doshi (3), and  ParshotamLal Dhingra v. Union of India (4).  The question as to	whatwould amount to punishment for purposes of Art. 311 was alsofully  considered in Parshotam Lal Dhingra's  case  (supra).It was therein held that if a person had a right to continuein office either under the service rules or under a  specialagreement, a permature termination of his services would  bea  punishment.	And, likewise, if the order would result  inloss of benefits already earned and accrued, that would alsobe punishment.	In the present case, the terms of employmentprovide	 for  the  services being  terminated  on  a  propernotice, and so, no question of permature termination arises.Rule  7	 of the Security Rules preserves the rights  of	 theemployee to all the benefits of pension, gratuities and	 thelike,  to  which  they would be entitled  under	 the  rules.Thus,  there is no forfeiture of benefits already  acquired.It  was	 stated	 for the appellants that a  person  who	 wasdischarged  under  the	rules  was  not	 eligible  for	 re-employment,   and  that	 that  was  punishment.	   But	 theappellants  are	 unable to point to any rule  imposing	thatdisability.   The order terminating the services under R.  3of the Security Rules stands on the same footing as an orderof  discharge  under  R.  148, and  it	is  neither  one  ofdismissal  nor	of removal within the meaning of  Art.	311.This contention also must be overruled.   (111)  It  is  next contended by  Mr.  Umrigar  that	 thecharges	 which	were  made against the	appellant  in  CivilAppeal No. 46 of 1956 in the notice dated July 6, 1950, havereference  to  events which took place prior to	 the  cominginto force of the Security Rules, which was on May 14, 1949,and that the order terminating the services of the appellantbased  thereon is bad as giving retrospective  operation  tothe rules,(I)  [1953] S.C.R. 655-(2)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 26,(3)  Civil Appeal No. 182 Of 1955.(4)  Civil Appeal No. 65 of 1957.1066and  that the same is not warranted by the terms there-	 of.Now, the rules provide that action can be taken under  them,if the employee is engaged or is reason;ably suspected to beengaged in subversive activities.  Where an authority has toform an opinion that an employee is likely to be engaged  insubversive  activities,	 it  can  only be  as  a  matter  ofinference  from the course of conduct of the  employee,	 andhis  antecedents  must furnish the best	 materials  for	 thesame.	The  rules are clearly prospective  in	that  actionthereunder   is	 to  be	 taken	in  respect  of	  subversiveactivities  which  either  now exist or	 are  likely  to  beindulged in, in future, that is to say, which are in esse orin  posse.   That  the materials for taking  action  in	 thelatter	case  are drawn from the conduct  of  the  employeesprior  to the enactment of the rules does not  render  theiroperation  retrospective.   Vide the  observations  of	LordDenman	C. J. in The Queen v. St. Mary, Whitechapel (1)	 andThe Queen v. Christchurch (2).	This contention must also berejected.   (IV)	  Lastly, it was contended that the impugned  orderswere  not  passed  by the competent  authorities  under	 theSecurity  Rules, and that they were, therefore, void.	Thiscontention is based on the fact that the authority competentto  pass  the orders under R. 3 is, as regards	the  presentappellants,  the  General  Manager, and	 that  the  impugnedorders	were  actually communicated to them  by	 the  DeputyManager.   But it has been found as a fact that	 the  ordershad  been actually passed by the General Manager,  and	thatfinding must be accepted.   In  the result, the appeals fail, and are dismissed	withcosts.	 The  appellants  who were  permitted  to  file	 theappeals	 in  forma  pauperis will also pay  the	 court	feespayable to the Government.		     Appeals dismissed.(1)  [1848] 12 Q. B. 120; 116 E.R.811.(2)  [1848] 12 Q.B, 149; 116 E.R. 823, 825.1067