PETITIONER:RAI BAHADUR SETH TEOMAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX ANDTHE COMMISSIONER OF  EXCESDATE OF JUDGMENT:02/03/1959BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR  742		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 301ACT:       Income  Tax-Place of Assessment-Transfer of assessee's  case       to  a  different Commissioner  of  Income-tax-Assessment	 by       Income-tax Officer-jurisdiction-Indian Income-tax Act,  1922       (XI Of 1922), ss. 5, 64.HEADNOTE:The  appellant	was carrying on the business  of  a  railwaycontractor  in a place in the district of R. In April  1943,the  Income-tax Officer of R which was under the  charge  ofthe Commissioner of Income-tax, Bengal (Mufassil), served  anotice under S. 22(2) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, onthe  appellant	who  in pursuance of the  notice  filed	 thereturn	on February 28, 1944.  The Income-tax  Officer	thenserved	notices on him under SS. 22(4) and 23(2) Of the	 Actfor  the  production of books, etc., but  before  the  finalassessment  was	 made, the Central Board of  Revenue  by  anorder  passed  under  S. 5(2) of the  Act,  transferred	 theappellant's case along with some other assessment cases,  tothe  Commissioner  of Income-tax  (Central),  Calcutta.	  OnFebruary 11, 1948, the Income-tax Officer, Calcutta, to whomthe  appellant's  case was assigned,  issued  notices  againunder  SS. 22(4) and 23(2) of the Act and after	 making	 theusual enquiries made the assessment order on March 15, 1948.The   appellant's   appeals  to	 the   Appellate   AssistantCommissioner  and  then to the	Appellate  Tribunal  raisingobjections  to the legality of the transfer of his  case  toCalcutta and to the jurisdiction of the Income-tax  Officer,Calcutta, were dismissed.  The Appellate Tribunal held	thatas  the objection related to the place of assessment it	 wasnot  competent	for the Tribunal to go into  that  question.The  appellant then made an application to the	Commissionerof  Income-tax for reference under S. 66(1) of the Act,	 butthis  was  dismissed on the ground that the  assessee  neverraised	any objection before the Income-tax Officer  to	 hisjurisdiction  and  that,  in  any  case,  the  question	  ofjurisdiction  could  not  arise	 out of	 the  order  of	 theTribunal.  An application filed by the appellant to the HighCourt under S. 66(2) of the Act was dismissed and though theorder of dismissal was not taken up on appeal, the appellantfiled  an appeal to the Supreme Court against the  order  ofthe Appellate Tribunal.	 It was contended for the  appellantthat under S. 64(1) and (2) of the Act he was entitled to beassessed by the Income-tax Officer of the area within  whichthe place of his business was situate, that the302assessment by the Income-tax Officer of Calcutta was illegalassumption of jurisdiction and that, in any case, the  orderof transfer by the Central Board of Revenue under S. 5(2) ofthe Act was not valid because, if it wanted to transfer	 theassessment  proceedings	 from  the file	 of  one  Income-taxOfficer to another it could be done only under S. 5(7A)	 andnot under S. 5(2).Held  :	 (1) Sub-section (7A) of S. 5 which confers  on	 theCentral Board of Revenue the power to transfer any case fromone  Income-tax Officer to another is not a provision  whichin  any	 way modifies or cuts down the power  given  to	 theCentral	 Board	of  Revenue under sub-S. 2 of  S.  5  whichenables it to specify as to which of the Commissioners wouldperform	 functions in respect of different  areas,  persons,incomes	 or cases or classes thereof. The  two	sub-sectionsare complementary and operate in two separate spheres.Pannalal  Binjraj v. Union of India, [1957] S.C.R.  233	 andBidi  Supply  Co.  v. Union of	India,	[1956]	S.C.R.	267,distinguished.In  the present case, the Central Board of Revenue  directedthe  Commissioner  of  Income-tax  (Central),  Calcutta,  toexercise his functions in respect of certain cases includingthe  case of the appellant and that fell under S.  5(2)	 andnot  under S. 5(7A).  The order of transfer was,  therefore,valid.(2)The	jurisdiction of the Income-tax Officer,	 Calcutta,to   make  the	assessment  on	the  appellant	 cannot	  bechallenged,  in	 view of sub-s. 5(a) of S. 64 of  the  Act,under which sub-ss. (1) and (2) of S. 64 have no applicationto an assessee in respect of whom anorder has been  madeby the Central Board of Revenue	 under S.5(2) of the Act.(3)  Objections	 as  to the place of  assessment  cannot  beraised	in  appeal  either before  the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner or before the Appellate Tribunal.Wallace	 Brothers & Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of	 Income-tax,Bombay,	 Sind and Baluchistan, [1945] F. C. R. 65  and	SethKanhaiyalal  v. Commissioner of Income-tax, [1936] 5  I.T.R.739, relied on.Dayaldas  Kushiram v. Commissioner of Income-tax  (Central),[1939] 8 I.T.R. 139 and Dina Nath Hem Raj v. Commissioner ofIncome-tax, (1927) I.L.R. 49 All. 616, distinguished.Consequently, as the question as to the place of  assessmentcould  not arise out of the order of the Appellate  Tribunalno such question of law could be referred to the High Court.JUDGMENT:CIVIl APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 384 and 385of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the Order dated  November	 28,1952, of the Income-tax Appellate303Tribunal  (Calcutta  Bench) in I.T.A. No.  4067	 and  E.P.T.Appeal No. 391 of 1951-52.N.   C.	 Chatterjee, B. Sen Gupta and B. P. Maheshwari,	 forthe appellant.K.   N.	 Rajagopala Sastri, R. H. Dhebar and D.	 Gupta,	 forthe respondents.1959.  March 2. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byKAPUR,	J.-These two appeals pursuant to special  leave	 arebrought	 against  two  orders  of  the	Incometax  AppellateTribunal (Calcutta Bench) dated November 28, 1952, passed inappeal No. 1. T. A. 4067 of 1951-52 in respect of income-taxassessment for the assessment year ending 31st March,  1944,and  in appeal No. E. P. T. A. 391 of 1951-52 in respect  ofExcess	Profits	 tax  assessment of the	 appellant  for	 thechargeable  accounting	period ending March 31,	 1943.	 Theoriginal assessee was R. B. Seth Teomal who was the  managerof a Hindu undivided family.  On Seth Teomal's death on	 May30,  1944, Seth Ottanmal became the manager.  He is now	 theappellant representing the Hindu undivided family.  He	willbe  termed as the appellant in these appeals.	Seth  Teomalwas  carrying  on the businesss of a railway  contractor  atLalmonirhat  in	 the  district of Rangpur which	 is  now  inPakistan.  In April 1943 a notice was served on him under s.22(2)  of the Income-tax Act (hereinafter called  the  Act).He  filed the return on February 28, 1944.   The  Income-taxOfficer,Rangpur,  served notices on him under ss. 22(4)	 and23(2)  for  production	of  books,  etc.   It  appears	thatassessment  proceedings	 continued  before  the	  Income-taxOfficer Rangpur, but no final assessment was made.According  to an affidavit which has now been filed in	thisCourt the Central Board of Revenue by an order passed  undersub-s. (2) of s. 5 of the Act assigned the appellant's	casealong  with some other assessment cases to the	Commissionerof  Income-tax (Central), Calcutta.  The order contains	 thefollowing  endorsements	 which	give an	 indication  of	 thereason	for the case being assigned to the  Commissioner  ofIncome. tax (Central):304" Copy forwarded to(1).........................................................(2)  Commissioner of Income-tax (Central), Calcutta.   Thesecases are reported to have E. P. T. liabilities ".Thus  the  appellant's case which was  before  an  incometaxOfficer	 within	 the area in charge of the  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax, Bengal (Mofissil) was withdrawn from him and wasassigned  to  the  Commissioner	 of  Income-tax	  (Central),Calcutta.   On	February 11, 1948,  the	 Income-tax  OfficerDistrict  N-C  (I.  T. cum E.P.T.) to whom  it	appears	 theappellant's assessment case was assigned issued notice againunder  ss. 22(4) and 23(2) of the Act.	That  officer  aftermaking	the  usual enquiries made the  assessment  order  onMarch 15, 1948.	 The order for Excess Profits Tax assessmentwas made on March 30,1948.Against these orders two appeals were taken to the AppellateAssistant  Commissioner	 on April 30, 1948.  In	 the  appealagainst	 income-tax  assessment	 the  appellant	 inter	aliaraised	 the  following	 two  grounds  in  regard   to	 thejurisdiction  of the Income-tax Officer, Calcutta:"  5.  For  that the petitioner is not aware  of  any  orderpassed for the transfer of the case from Rangpur to Calcuttaand  it	 is  submitted	that  without  such  an	 order	 andcommunication of such order the assessment is  challengeablefor want of jurisdiction "." 32.  For that the appellants challenge the jurisdiction asthere  was no proper order of transfer and the business	 wascarried on outside Calcutta and assessments had never beforebeen made in Calcutta".	 But no such ground was taken in theappeal against Excess Profits Tax assessment.  The AppellateAssistant  Commissioner	 dismissed both these  appeals.	  Inregard to jurisdiction he held:-" It however appears from records on band that the principalplace  of business of the concern was at Rangpur and as	 theincome attracted E. P. T. liability the case was transferredto  Calcutta  under  Orders of C. B. R. Hence  there  is  nosubstance  in the contention of the learned  Advocate  whichfails305The  appellant	then  took  two	 appeals  to  the  IncometaxAppellate   Tribunal.	In  the	 appeal	 against   incometaxassessment he took two objections in regard to	jurisdiction:"  For that the objection taken before the learned A. A.  C.on  jurisdiction should not have been summarily disposed  ofby  passing  reference to an order of transfer of  the	casefrom Rangpur to Calcutta without at the same time discussingwhen  the question of jurisdiction was seriously raised	 andhow  and under what circumstances and to, whom was the	casetransferred and for what purpose"  2.  For  that the appellant begs  leave  to	repeat	thattransfer  was  not legal or proper and was not made  by	 anyproper authority to legalise such transfer ".In the Excess Profits Tax appeal also this time an objectionwas taken as to jurisdiction :"  For	that the assessment is bad in law having  been	madewithout jurisdiction ".The Appellate Tribunal held against the appellant in a shortparagraph:"  So  far  as	the first objection  is	 concerned,  in	 ouropinion,  it is not within our jurisdiction to go into	thismatter.	  The objection relates to the place of	 assessment.As held in 1945 T. T. R. 39 (Wallace Brothers, & Co. Ltd  v.Commissioner  of Income-tax, Bombay, Sind  and	Baluchistan,Federal	 Court)	 the  question as to  the  proper  place  ofassessment is not one for adjudication by a Court or by	 anyAppellate  Authority.	Consequently we overrule  the  firstcontention of the Assessee."The Tribunal thus held that as the objection related to	 theplace  of  assessment the Tribunal was not competent  to  gointo  that question.  Upon this the appellant applied for  areference  to be made under s. 66(1) of the Act	 and  prayedfor  five  questions  to be  referred.	 The  two  questionsrelating to jurisdiction were:-(1)" Had the Income-tax Officer (Non-Companies	Income-taxcum Excess Profits Tax' District, Calcutta, jurisdiction  tomake the assessment ?39306(2)Was	the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal correct  in  thecircumstances  in  holding that it has	no  jurisdiction  todetermine the competence of the Income-tax Officer in makingthe assessment ?"In  the	 " facts of the case " attached to  the	 grounds  ofAppeal it was stated that the accounts were produced  beforethe Income-tax Officer, Calcutta, under protest because	 thejurisdiction of that officer was being challenged.  In replyto   this  the	Commissioner  after  referring	to   WallaceBrothers'  case (1) stated that it did not appear  from	 theassessment   record  that  the	assessee  ever	raised	 anyobjection to the jurisdiction of the Income-tax Officer	 andif it had been taken the matter would have been referred  bythe  Income-tax Officer to the Commissioner as	required  bylaw.  This- application under s. 66(1) was dismissed on	 theground that the question of jurisdiction could not arise outof the order of Tribunal and reliance was placed on  WallaceBrothers'  case (1) and Seth Kanhaiyalal v. Commissioner  ofIncome-tax  (2	). The appellant applied to the	 High  Courtunder s. 66 (2) of the Act and prayed for the following	 twoquestions and some others to be referred :-(i)" Had the Income-tax Officer (N.  C. 1. T. Cum E. P. T.District Calcutta) jurisdiction to make the assessment ?(ii)Was	 the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal correct  in	thecircumstances  in  holding that it had	no  jurisdiction  todetermine the competence of the Income-tax Officer in makingthe  assessment?"The High Court dismissed this application on July 23,  1954.No appeal has been filed in this Court against the order  ofthe  High  Court but an appeal has been	 filed	against	 theorder passed by the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal.On  behalf of the Revenue a preliminary objection was  takenthat  as no appeal had been filed against the order  of	 theHigh  Court  that  order had become final  and	this  Court,therefore, should not entertain the appeal against the orderof the Tribunal and reliance was placed on the	observationsof Venkatarama(1) [1945] F.C.R. 65; 13 I.T.R. 39.		  (2) [1936] 5 I.T.R. 739.307Aiyar,	J.,  in Govinda Rajulu Mudaliar v.  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax (1).	 At p. 810 it was observed:" The present appeal is against the decision of the Tribunalitself	It is no doubt true that this Court has	 decided  inDhakeswari Cotton Mills Ltd. v. Commissioner of	 Income-tax,West Bengal (2) that an appeal lies under article 136 of theConstitution  of India to this court against a	decision  ofthe Appellate Tribunal under the Indian Income-tax Act.	 Butseeing	that in this case the appellant had moved  the	HighCourt and a decision has been pronounced adverse to him	 andthis has become final, obviously it would not be open to himto question the correctness of the decision of the  Tribunalon grounds which might have been taken in an appeal  againstthe judgment of the High Court.	 All the points urged beforeus were taken in the reference under s. 66 (2) of the IndianIncome-tax  Act.   It  would  therefore	 follow	 that  thesegrounds are not open to the appellant".But  counsel for the appellant relied on  Dhakeswari  CottonMills Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax (2) where the scopeof appeals under Art. 136 were set out by the learned  ChiefJustice.   In  this case however it is not necessary  to  gointo  this question because in our opinion there  is  littlesubstance in the appeal itself.Counsel	 for the appellant has urged two grounds in  supportof   his  appeal:  (1)	that  his  place  of  business	 wasLalmonirhat  and under s. 64 (1) and (2) of the Act  he	 wasentitled  to be assessed by the Income-tax Officer  of	thatarea  and (2) that assessment by the Income-tax	 Officer  ofCalcutta  was  an  illegal assumption  of  jurisdiction	 andtherefore  he was entitled to have the order  of  assessmentquashed.   In order to decide these questions reference	 hasto  be	made  to the scheme. of	 the  Act.   The  provisionsrelevant to the issue of jurisdiction are ss. 5 and 64.	 Theformer is headed " Income-tax authorities " and the latter "Place of assessment ". Assessment is made by the  Income-taxOfficer under s. 23 (3).  Against an order of assessment  orthe liability to be assessed an appeal(1) [1958] 34 I.T.R. 807, 810.(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 941, 949.308lies under s. 30 to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner anda  further appeal to Income-tax Appellate Tribunal under  s.33  of	the Act.  And then a reference can be  made  by	 theTribunal to the High Court under s. 66 (1) of the Act and ifthe Tribunal does not make such reference the High Court canunder  s. 66 (2) be moved and it can then direct  that	suchreference be made.The heading of s. 64 is " Place of assessment ". Sub-section(1) of s. 64 provides that the assessee shall be assessed bythe  Income-tax Officer of the area in	which he carries  onhis  business.	Sub-section (2) lays down that in all  othercases  an  assessee  shall be  assessed	 by  the  Income-taxOfficer	 of the area in which he resides.  Under  these	 twosub-sections   therefore  the  appellant,  because  he	 wascarrying  on business at Lalmonirhat, had to be assessed  bythe Income-tax Officer of that area, i.e., by the Income-taxOfficer	 of  Rangpur.	Sub-section  (3)  of  that   sectionprovides  that if a question as to the place  of  assessmentarises,	 it  is	 to be determined  by  the  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax  or by Central Board of Revenue according as	 thecase  may be.  Under the first proviso to  this	 sub-sectionbefore	the  question  as  to the  place  of  assessment  isdetermined  the	 assessee  has to  have	 an  opportunity  ofrepresenting  his  views and under the	second	proviso	 theplace  of assessment cannot be called into question  by	 theassessee  if he has made a return in response to the  noticeunder  sub-s.  (1)  of	s. 22 and  has	stated	therein	 theprincipal  place where he carries on his business or  if  hehas not made such a return, the time specified in the noticehas expired.  The third proviso to this subsection is:"  Provided  further  that if the place	 of  assessment	 -iscalled	in  question by an assessee the Income	Tax  Officershall,	if Dot satisfied with the correctness of the  claim,refer  the matter for determination under  this	 sub-sectionbefore assessment is made ".Thus under s. 64(3) the question of determination as to	 theplace of assessment only arises if an objection is taken  bythe assessee and the Income Tax Officer has any doubts as tothe matter.  But the determination309is  to be by the Commissioner of Income Tax or	the  CentralBoard  of Revenue.  The Act does not 'contemplate any  otherauthority.It was contended on behalf of the assessee that he  producedhis accounts before the Income Tax Officer at Calcutta underprotest.   There  is  no  mention of  this  protest  in	 theassessment  file  and  that  is	 what  was  stated  by	 theCommissioner  of  Income Tax in his reply which he  gave  onMarch 3, 1953, before the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal	 andwhich has been set out above.  If such an objection had beenraised the question would have been referred by the  Income-tax Officer to the Commissioner as required under s.  64(3).That  stage never arose because the objection does not	seemto  have  been taken at the stage when it should  have	beentaken, i.e., before the Income-tax Officer, Calcutta.But it is contended by counsel for the appellant that in thepresent case there is an illegal assumption of	jurisdictionas  the officer who made the assessment had no	jurisdictionat  all to make the assessment.	 It was also contended	thatif  the	 Central  Board of Revenue wanted  to  transfer	 theassessment proceedings from the Income-tax Officer, Rangpur,to  the	 Income-tax  Officer  at  Calcutta,  it	 could	onlyexercise that jurisdiction by making an order under s. 5(7A)and  not under s. 5(2) of the Act.  He relied on  Taylor  v.Taylor	(1) where it was held that if a mode of exercise  ofpower is laid down in the statute it has to be exercised  inthat way and no other.	He also relied on Nazir Ahmad v. TheKing Emperor (2).  He further contended that this was not  acase  which  fell under s. 5(2) of the Act.   Section  5(7A)gives to the Central Board of Revenue the power to  transferany case from one Income-tax Officer to another which can bemad6   at  any	stage  of  the	proceedings  and  does	 notnecessitate  the reissuing of a notice under s. 22(2) if  ithad already been issued by the Income-tax Officer from	whomthe  case is transferred and in the explanation- the word  'case'  in relation to any person whose name is specified  inthe order of transfer means(1) (1875) 1 Ch.  D. 426, 431(2) (1936) L.R. 63 I.A. 372.310all  proceedings under the Act which may be pending  on	 thedate of the transfer and includes all proceedings which	 maybe commenced after the date of the transfer.Section	 5  although headed I Income-tax  authorities'	alsogives to the Central Board of Revenue and the  Commissionersof  Income-tax	certain powers in regard to  withdrawing  ofcases  from  one  area into other and  from  one  Income-taxOfficer	 to another.  Sub-section (2) of this section  givespower  to the Central Government to appoint as many  Commis-sioner's  of  Income-tax as it thinks fit and they  have  toperform	 their	functions  in respect  of  different  areas,persons and bases or classes thereof.  The relevant  portionof the sub-section is as follows:-S.5(2)	"  The	Central Government may	appoint	 as  manyCommissioners of Income-tax as it thinks fit and they  shallperform their functions in respect of such areas or of	suchpersons or classes of persons or of such incomes or  classesof  incomes  or	 of such cases or classes of  cases  as	 theCentral Board of Revenue may direct................."In the present case there are more than one Commissioner  ofIncome-tax  in	Bengal	and the	 Central  Board	 of  Revenueassigned  certain cases including the case of the  appellantto the Commissioner of Income-tax (Central) at Calcutta	 forthe exercise of his functions as Commissioner.	Now this  isa power which the Central Board of Revenue did possess undersub-s.	(2) of s. 5. As to which Income-tax Officer  was  todeal with that case was for the Commissioner of Incometax todesignate.Sub-section  7A	 of  s. 5 confers on the  Central  Board  ofRevenue	 the power to transfer any case from one  Income-taxOfficer	 to the other which can be done at any state of	 theproceedings.   This sub-section is not a provision which  inany way modifies or cuts down the power given to the CentralBoard  of Revenue under s. 5(2).  The two  sub-sections	 arecomplementary  and  operate in two separate  spheres.	Sub-section (2) is for the purpose of specifying as to which  ofthe Commissioners would perform functions in respect of311different  areas,  persons,  incomes  or  cases	 or  classesthereof.It  was	 argued	 that s. 7A is a special  provision  and  itnecessarily  excludes the operation of sub-s. (2) but as  wehave said above the two sections are not mutually exclusive.They  operate  in  two different  spheres,  their  areas  ofoperation  are different and therefore the power  which	 theCentral	 Board	of  Revenue exercised in  the  present	casecannot	be said to be illegal . It was not transferring	 theappellant's  case from the Income-tax Officer,	Rangpur,  tothe   Income-tax   Officer,  Calcutta.	 It   directed	 theCommissioner  of Incometax (Central), Calcutta, to  exercisehis functions in respect of certain cases including the caseof the appellant and that falls under s. 5(2) and not  unders. 5(7A).Reference  was	made to Pannalal Binjraj v. Union  of  India(1).   But that was a case in which the question raised	 wasof  constitutional validity of sub-s. 7A of s. 5 and it	 washeld that it was a measure of administrative convenience andwas valid and neither infringed the fundamental rights underArt. 14 nor under Art. 19(1)(g).  There are no	observationsin  that case which militate against the view that  sub	 ss.(2) & (7A) operate in different areas nor did that  questionarise  in that case.  The contention there raised  was	thatsub-s.	7A  conferred arbitrary and uncontrolled  powers  oftransfer  and  was  discriminatory  and	 violative  of	 theprovisions   of	  Art.	14  and	 imposed   an	unreasonablerestriction  on the right to carry on trade or	business  incontravention  of Art. 19 (1)(g).  Counsel referred to	BidiSupply Co. v. Union of India (2) But that case also does notdeal, with the matter now before us.  The simple question tobe  decided  is whether the  Income-tax	 Officer,  Calcutta,could  make  the assessment in the  appellant's	 case.	 Thesubmission that there was illegal assumption of jurisdictionby  the Income-tax Officer of Calcutta is not  well-founded.If the Central Board of Revenue had the power to direct	 theCommissioner  of Incometax (Central), Calcutta, to  exercisehis functions in(1) [1957] S.C.R. 233, 266.(2) [1956] S.C.R. 267.312respect of several cases including the appellant's mentionedin the order dated November 29, 1946, as indeed it had unders. 5(2), then neither that order could be challenged nor thepower  of  the	Income-tax Officer, Calcutta,  to  make	 theassessment.  After an order by the Central Board of  Revenueunder  s. 5(2) of the Act the provisions of sub-ss. (1)	 and(2)  of s. 64 have no application because of sub-s. (5a)  ofs. 64 which is as follows :Sub-s. 5 " The provisions of sub-section (1) and  subsection(2) shall not apply and shall be deemed never at any time tohave applied to any assessee-(a)on whom an assessment or reassessment for the  purposesof  this  Act  has been, is being or is to be  made  in	 thecourse	of  any case in respect of which a  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax  appointed without reference to area	 under	sub-section	 (2) of section 5 is exercising the functions  of  aCommissioner of Income-tax".In  view of this provision no objection can be taken on	 theground of sub-sections (1) and (2) of s. 64.Counsel for the appellant relied on a judgment of the BombayHigh  Court in Dayaldas Kushiram v. Commissioner of  Income-tax (Central) (1), where it was held that s. 64 was intendedto ensure that as far as practicable the assessee should  beassessed  locally, i. e., by the Income-tax Officer  of	 thearea  in  which the assessee carries on business  and  theremust,  so far as the exigencies of the case allow,  be	somereasonable relation to the place where the assessee  carrieson  business  or  resides.  In that case  the  assessee	 wascarrying on business in C Ward and the proper officer -unders. 64 to assess him was the Income-tax Officer of that Ward.As  a  result  of  the coming into  force  of  s.  5(2)	 theCommissioner  of  Income-tax (Central) was  created  withoutreference to the area.	The case of the assessee on whom thenotice	had  been served but had not been  assessed  in	 duecourse assigned to the Commissioner of Income-tax  (Central)who  designated an Income-tax Officer for assessment of	 theassessee.  The assessee thereupon made an application  unders. 45 of(1)[1939] 8 I.T.R. 139.313the  Specific  Relief Act and prayed for  direction  to	 theCommissioner  of  Income-tax  (Central)	 and  the  IncometaxOfficer	 to whom his case had been assigned to forbear	fromcontinuing  the proceedings on the grounds that the  Income-tax  Officer had no jurisdiction having regard to s.  64  ofthe  Act.  It was held that the Income-tax Officer  was	 notthe Income-tax Officer of the area in which the assessee wascarrying on business.  It was also held that in spite of theinsertion of s. 5(2) of the Act such assessment was  withoutjurisdiction because there was no amendment of s. 64.  As  aresult of this judgment Ordinance IX of 1939 was promulgatedwhich  subsequently was enacted as subs. 5 of s. 64.   Afterthe Ordinance the assessee Dayaldas Kushiram was assessed bythe  same  Officer  and after unsuccessful  appeals  to	 theCommissioner  of  Income-tax and the Appellate	Tribunal  hemade  an application under s. 66(1) on three questions:	 (1)Whether	 the order passed by the Commissioner  of  Incometaxdeciding  the place of assessment of the assessee  could  bethe  subject  matter of appeal to  the	Incometax  AppellateTribunal;  (2)	Whether	 the  Tribunal	had  the  power	  toentertain  an  appeal  on the question as to  the  place  ofassessment  of an assessee even in the absence of the  orderof  Commissioner of Income-tax and (3) whether the  question,as to the place of assessment is a question of law  arisingout  of	 the order of the Appellate Tribunal.  It  was	heldthat  the order of the Commissioner was made under  s.	5(2)and   not   under  s.  64(3)  and  as  the   Ordinance	 hadretrospective effect these questions did not arise and	thatthe  assessment	 of  the assessee was validly  made  by	 theIncome-tax Officer and the Ordinance removed the  invalidityof the orders made prior to the passing of the Ordinance  sofar as they related to the assessee.  Beaumont, C. J.,	heldthat  the  Income-tax  Act did not determine  the  place  ofassessment but the officer who had to assess and that  therecould  be no appeal under the Act against the order  of	 theCommissioner as to the place of assessment, but only againstthe order of assessment of the Income-tax Officer.40314Counsel	 for the appellant also relied 'on the	judgment  ofthe   Allahabad	 High  Court  in  Dina	Nath  Hem   Raj	  v.Commissioner  of Income-tax (1).  In that case the  assesseewas carrying on business at Calcutta and he was sought to beassessed at Kanpur and an objection was taken to the Income-tax Officer, Kanpur, making the assessment.  The  Income-taxOfficer	 did  not proceed in accordance with  s.  64(3)	 andtherefore  it  was  held that assessment  made	by  him	 waswithout	 jurisdiction.	In the present case no question	 hasbeen raised as to the jurisdiction of the Income-tax Officerwho  made the assessment and apart from that the  order	 wasmade  by the Central Board of Revenue under s. 5(2)  of	 theAct  and s. 64(5) becomes operative and sub-ss. (1) and	 (2)of  s.	64 are inoperative.  See also  Seth  Kanhaiyalal  v.Commissioner of Incometax (2).The  question  then-arises whether the objection as  to	 theplace  of  assessment, i. e., by the Income-tax	 Officer  ofCalcutta  could	 be challenged in appeal  to  the  AppellateAssistant   Commissioner  and  then  before  the   AppellateTribunal.   In our opinion it could not be.  The  scheme  ofthe  Act shows that no appeal in regard to the objection  tothe  place  of	assessment is contemplated  under  the	Act.Under  s.  64(3) of the Act a question as to  the  place  ofassessment,   when   it	 arises,  is   determined   by	 theCommissioner.	Any  such order cannot be made a  ground  ofappeal	to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner under s.  30of  the	 Act which provides for appeals	 against  orders  ofassessment  and	 other	orders enumerated in s.	 30  but  noappeals	 is  there  provided against orders  made  under  s.64(3).	 Similarly appeals to the Appellate  Tribunal  whichlie  under  s.	33 of the Act also do not  provide  for	 anyappeal	on  the	 question of the place	of  assessment.	  InWallace	 Brothers'  case (3) at p. 79 Spens,  C.  J.,  afterreferring to s. 64(3) and the proviso thereto said:" These provisions clearly indicate that the matter is	moreone of administrative convenience than of(1) (1927) I.L.R. 49 All. 616.	(2) [1936] 5 I.T.R. 739.(.3) [1945] F.C.R. 65: 13 I.T.R. 39.315jurisdiction and in any event it is not one for adjudicationby  the	 Court............... This confirms us in  the	viewthat the scheme of the Act does not contemplate an objectionas  to	the place of assessment being raised  on  an  appealagainst	 the assessment after the assessment has been  made.As we have already pointed out, the objection was not raisedin  the	 present case even before the  Appellate  Income-taxOfficer but only before the Appellate Tribunal ".There  is nothing in the Bidi Supply case (1) which  in	 anyway  detracts  from  the efficacy of  the  decision  of	 theFederal	 Court	in  Wallace Brothers'  case  (2).   We	havealready said that Bidi Supply case (1) deals with the  viresof s. 5(7A).In  this view of the matter the question as to the place  ofassessment does not arise out of the order of the Income-taxAppellate Tribunal and therefore no question of law could bereferred  nor could the High Court make such order under  s.66(2).	In our opinion, the High Court rightly dismissed theappellant's application for directing the case to be  statedunder s.  66(2) of the Act.The appeals therefore fail and are dismissed with costs.  Inthe circumstances of the case there will be only one set  ofcosts.Appeals dismissed.(1) [1956] S.C.R. 267.	(2) [1945] F.C.R. 65; 13 I.T.R. 39.316