PETITIONER:B.   N. SRIKANTIAH & OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF MYSOREDATE OF JUDGMENT:14/04/1958BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  672		  1959 SCR  496ACT:Murder-Charge  under s. 302 simpliciter-Conviction under  s.302 /34, when Permissible-Prejudice-Common  Intention-IndianPenal Code (XLV of 1860), ss. 34 and 302.HEADNOTE:Six persons were charged under s. I43 Indian Penal Code	 forbeing  members of an unlawful assembly the common object  ofwhich  was  to	murder one Anne Gowda.	Five  of  them	werefurther	  charged  under  s.  302  Indian  Penal  Code	 forcommitting murder by intentionally causing the death of AnneGowda,	and  the sixth was charged under s.  302/109  IndianPenal  Code  for  abetment  of	murder.	  The  trial   Courtacquitted all the six accused under s. 143, acquitted two ofthem  but convicted the three appellants under s.  302,	 andconvicted the sixth accused under s. 302/109.  On appeal theHigh Court maintained the conviction of the appellants unders. 302 but acquitted the sixth accused under s. 302/109.  Itwas  contended by the appellant that as the prosecution	 hadnot established which of the appellants had given the  fatalblow   none  of	 them  could  be  convicted  under  s.	 302simpliciter  and that as no charge had been framed under  s.34 they could not be convicted under s. 302/34 Indian  PenalCode :Held,  that the omission to mention s. 34 Indian Penal	Codein the charge could not affect the case unless prejudice wasshown  to have resulted in consequence thereof.	 The  chargewas that the appellants and two others committed the  murderby  intentionally  causing the death of the  deceased.	 Theappellants  had	 notice	 that they were	 being	tried  as  "sharers-in  the	 offence  " and	 that  their  liability	 wascollective and vicarious and not individual.  The appellantshad  neither alleged nor shown that the omission to  specifys. 34 in the charge had caused them any prejudice.Common intention is a question of fact and is to be gatheredfrom  the  acts of the parties.	 The  evidence	showed	thatthere  was  preconcert,	 that the  appellants  attacked	 thedeceased  with choppers injuring him on the head, the  neck,the  shoulders and the forearms and that the appellants	 notonly caused injuries to the deceased at the place where theymet  him but they also chased him when he tried to run	awayto save himself and continued to assault him with the deadlyweapons	 till he was dead.  The conduct of  the	 appellants,the  ferocity of the attack, the weapons used, the situs  ofthe  injuries and their nature together with the  fact	thatthere  was preconcert established that the common  intentionof the appellants was to murder the deceased.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION:     Criminal Appeals	Nos.120 & 121 of 1955.497Appeals from the judgment and order dated December 16, 1954,of  the Mysore High Court at Bangalore in  Criminal  AppealsNos. 49 and 50 of 1953 arising out of the judgment and orderdated  May  19, 1953, of the Court of the  Third  AdditionalSessions Judge at Bangalore in Bangalore Sessions Case No. 7of 1953.V.   Krishnamurthy   and   R.	Gopalakrishnan,	  for	 theappellants.G.   Channappa, Assistant Advocate-General for the State  ofMysore and T. M. Sen, for the respondent.1958.  April 14.  The Judgment of the Court AA-as  deliveredbyKAPUR  J.-These	 two  appeals under Art.  134(1)(c)  of	 theConstitution arise out of the judgment and order of the HighCourt of Mysore at Bangalore confirming the convictions	 andsentences  passed upon the appellants who were accused	Nos.2,  3  and 4 respectively by the Third	Additional  DistrictJudge, Bangalore.Accused	 Nos.  1, 5 and 6 who have been	 acquitted  and	 theappellants were charged as follows:"I.................. hereby charge you A-1 Sanjeeva Rao, A-2Srikantiah,  A-3 Sidda, A-4 Kidaripathi, A-5 Hanumantha	 andA-6 Pujari Anantha as follows:1.That	you  on or about the 25th day of August	 1952  atMayasandra  in	Magadi	Taluk were members  of	an  unlawfulassembly  the common object of which was to murder  deceasedAnne Gowda and thereby committed an offence punishable undersection	 143  of  the  Indian  Penal  Code  and	 within	 thecognizance of the Court of Sessions.2.That you A-2 Srikantiah., A-3 Sidda, A-4 Kadaripathi,	 A-5Hanumantha and A-6 Pujari Anantha, on or about the 25tb. dayof  August  1952 at Mayasandra in Magadi  Taluk	 did  commitmurder by intentionally causing the death of Anne Gowda	 andthereby committed an offence punishable under section 302 ofthe  Indian  Penal Code, and within the	 cognizance  of	 theCourt of Sessions.3.   And that you A-1 Sanjeeva Rao on or about498the  25th day of August 1952 at Mayasandra in  Magadi  Talukabetted the commission of the offence of murder by A-2 to A-6  which was committed in consequence of your  abetment	 andthereby	 committed an offence punishable under sections	 109and 302 of the Indian Penal Code, and within the  cognizanceof the Court of Sessions."Thus  all  of  them were charged with being  members  of  anunlawful assembly, the common object of which was to  murderthe  deceased,	Anne  Gowda.   The  appellants	along	withHanumantha  accused  No.  5 and Pujari accused	No.  6	werefurther	 charged  with committing murder of  Anne  Gowda  byintentionally  causing his death.  No doubt the charge	doesnot contain the words " in furtherance of the common  inten-tion  of all " but short of that the charge is as near	themas  it	could be.  Accused No. I Sanjeeva  Rao	was  furthercharged	 with  abetting the offence of	murder.	  The  trialCourt  acquitted all the accused of the charge under s.	 143Indian Penal Code and accused Nos. 5 & 6 of the charge unders.  302 but he convicted accused No. 1 under s. 302/109	 andthe  appellants	 under	s. 302 and  sentenced  them  all  totransportation	for life.  They took an appeal to  the	HighCourt and the State appealed against the order of  acquittalof  accused Nos. 5 & 6 and the order of acquittal  under  s.143.  The High Court acquitted accused No. I Sanjeeva Rao ofabetment of murder after the matter was referred to a  thirdjudge  under s. 429 of the Criminal Procedure Code as  therewas  a difference of opinion between the two judges  of	 theDivision  Bench	 hearing  the appeal and thus  the  case  ofabetment  set up by the prosecution failed.  It	 upheld	 theacquittal  of accused Nos. 5 and 6. The charge	of  unlawfulassembly  of which the common object was the murder of	AnneGowda  the deceased also failed because of the acquittal  ofSanjeeva  Rao  accused No. 1 Hanumantha accused	 No.  5	 andPujari	accused	 No.  6 thus leaving  only  the	 appellants.Their  conviction for an offence under s. 302, Indian  PenalCode  and  the sentence of transportation was  upheld.	 Thetrial Court's finding against them was-as follows;499"  So far as A-2 Srikantiah, A-3 Sidda and  A-4	 Kadaripathialias  Kunta are concerned, there is ample evidence to	showthat  they  alone inflicted injuries on	 the  deceased	AnneGowda  and  caused his death.  Thus a prima facie  case	 hasbeen made out against them for the murder of Anne Gowda ".The High Court in appeal said:- "The evidence on the whole is consistent and in fact it  isso  consistent	that  it was being urged on  behalf  of	 theaccused that each witness was repeating what the other says.Some  of the important witnesses have been mentioned in	 theFirst  Information  Report and the inquest itself  was	overwithin	24 hours after the incident.  Taking the  consistentevidence of the witnesses and the probabilities of the	caseit  has	 to be stated that the evidence of  the	 prosecutionwitnesses as regards the incident has to be believedWe  have not had the advantage of a critical and  analyticalexamination of the evidence of the prosecution witnesses  byeither of the courts below nor has the evidence against eachof  the	 appellants  been  collated  and  therefore  it	 wasnecessary for its to examine the evidence in some detail.The evidence of the witnesses for the prosecution shows thatthe  deceased  Anne  Gowda and the  party  of  Sanjeeva	 Raoaccused No. I had considerable amount of enmity between eachother.	 On  the date of the occurrence, i. e.,	 August	 25,1952,  the  deceased  had  gone to  Ramanagram	where  in  aMagistrate's  Court a case had been brought against  him  byaccused	 No. 1. After the case was over the deceased and  P.W. 18 Gangabyriah who was a co-accused in the case and PuttaP. W. 20 who was a witness traveled by the bus which reacheda place called Kudur at about 7 p.m. From Kudur the deceasedaccompanied by his two companions and also P.W. 17 Thimmappaand P.W. 19 Puttarangiah and P.W. 21 Basavalingappa who	 hadgone for shopping to the shop of P. W. II Subba Rao, startedfor their village Yollapore.  When they reached the bund  ofthe  tank  of  Mayasandra, accused Nos.	 I  and	 5  and	 theappellants  came  from	the opposite side.   Accused  No.  Iflashed his torch on to the500deceased and his companions.  Thereupon appellant No. 1	 whois  the	 brother of Sanjeeva Rao accused No. 1 gave  a	blowwith  his chopper which cut into two the torch which at	 thetime  :was  in the hand of P.W. 18 Gangabyriah	and  on	 theinstigation  of	 accused  No. 1 to  kill  the  deceased	 theappellants  started  their attack on him.  Appellant  No.  3Sidda gave a blow from behind on the right side of the	neckof  the	 deceased  with	 his  chopper  and  accused  No.   4Kadaripathi  aimed a, blow on his head but to ward  off	 theblow  the deceased raised his hand and the blow fell on	 hishand.  The deceased then ran towards the tank chased by	 theaccused	 Nos.  1 and 5 and the appellants.  He fell  into  ashallow	 water	pit.  Accused Nos. 5 and 6  who	 were  emptyhanded	are  stated  to	 have caught hold  of  him  and	 theappellants  gave  five	or six blows to	 the  deceased	withchoppers.   Accused Nos. 5 and 6 then released him  but	 theappellants  continued  the assault with their  choppers	 andcaused 24 incised injuries.  This story is supported by P.W.17 Thimmappa, P.W. 18 Gangabyriah, P.W. 19 Puttarangiah	 andP.W.  20  Putta and lastly P . W.  21  Basavalingappa.	 TheFirst  Information Report which was lodged at about 1  a.m.,on  August 26, was made by P.W. 17 Thimmappa and' the  wholeincident  is  there  set out along with	 the  names  of	 theaccused as well as the witnesses.When  the  house  of Appellant No. 3 Sidda  was	 searched  abloodstained chopper M. O. 11 was produced by him before thePanchayatdars.	 Similarly  the	 house	of  accused  No.   4Kadaripathi  was  also	searched  and  that  appellant	alsoproduced a chopper there.  As the prosecution has not provedthat  any of these choppers was stained with human blood  itcannot get much assistance from this recovery.The  medical witness P.W. 2 , found as many as 24  injuries.Of these injury No. 5 was described as follows:-"A transverse incised wound in front of the neck 5" long  2-1/2" deep, cutting the skin, muscles, arteries, veins  abovethe  thyroid cartilage, pharynx and muscles in front of	 thevertebral  column.   On the right side the wound  starts  2"below. the lobule of the right501ear,  runs to the left and ends 2" below and 1"	 behind	 thelobule of the left ear".All  the  other injuries were incised varying in  degree  ofseriousness.  The medical witness's opinion was that  injuryNo.  5 is a fatal injury sufficient to cause death  All	 theother injuries taken as whole may be fatal "The	 prosecutionhas  not  proved as to who caused injury No. 5	nor  has  itspecified the injuries caused by individual appellants.	 Thequestion  then	arises;	 what  is  the	offence	 which	 theappellants  are	 guilty	 of,  if  any.	 Courts	 below	haveaccepted  the testimony of the witnesses  which	 establishesthat  there was enmity between the parties and that  on	 thedate  of the occurrence the deceased had gone to  the  Magi-strate's  Court	 at Ramanagram for the case which  had	beenbrought at the instance of accused No. 1. The evidence	alsoshows  that  on	 that  date appellants 3  and  4  were	seentogether at Kudur in front of the shop of P.W. 10 at about 6p.m. When accused No. 3 was asked by Siddappa P.W. 10 as  towhat  had  'brought him there, his reply was  that   he	 waswaiting for somebody who was coming by Renuka Bus Service ".The  testimony	of  P.W. 11 on this point  is  that  he	 sawaccused	 Nos. 3 and 4 and another man about 5-30 p.m.  or  6p.m. in front of his shop.  He asked them why they had come.They replied that "they had come to see some persons coiningby  Renuka  Bus"  and there is evidence	 to  show  that	 thedeceased and his two companions had come from Ramanagram  bythis Bus Service at about 7 p.m. The evidence of prosecutionwitnesses  Nos.	 17  to 21 also establishes  that  when	 thedeceased and his party arrived near the bund of the tank theparty of the accused came towards them.	 One of the  accusedSanjeeva Rao (accused No. 1) flashed a torch and the  othersstarted	  attacking  the  deceased  with  choppers  at	 theinstigation  of that accused.  Injuries were caused  on	 thehead,  the neck and the shoulders or on the right  and	leftforearms which must have been caused when the deceased triedto,  save  himself by raising his arm to protect  his  head.The common intention of the6502appellants  is clear from the fact that not only  were	theyarmed with deadly weapons which they used to cause  injuriesto  the deceased at the place where they first met  him	 andhis companions but they also chased him when he tried to runaway  to save himself and all of them  continued  assaultinghim  with  these  deadly  weapons till	he  was	 dead.	 Theevidence  further  shows that all of them took part  in	 theassault.   There  were	24 injuries on	the  person  of	 thedeceased  and  of them twenty one were	incised.   They	 areeither	on his head or the neck or the shoulders and on	 theforearms.  All these except perhaps the last are vital partsof the body and anybody who causes injuries with weapons  ofthe  kind  that the appellants used must be fixed  with	 theintention of causing such bodily injury or injuries as wouldfall within s. 300 of the Indian Penal Code.The  question has then been raised that there was no  chargeunder s. 34 and therefore the accused cannot be convicted ofliability as sharers in an offence by the 'application of s.34,  i. e., in prosecution of the common intention  of	all.Now intention is a question ,of fact which is to be gatheredfrom the acts of the parties and whoever caused injury No. 5or  the persons who caused the other injuries on  the  vitalparts  of the body could have had no other intention but  ofcausing the death considering the nature and number of inju-ries and the weapons used.The  omission to mention s. 34 of the Indian Penal  Code  inthe charge cannot affect the case unless prejudice is  shownto  have  resulted in consequence thereof.  The	 charge	 wasthat  the appellants and others were members of an  unlawfulassembly,  the	common	object of which was  to	 murder	 thedeceased.   Although there is a difference in common  objectand  common intention, they both deal " with combination  ofpersons	 who become punishable as sharers in an	 offence  ",and  a charge under s. 149, Indian Penal Code is no  impedi-ment  to  a conviction by the application of s.	 34  if	 theevidence   discloses  the  commission  of  the	offence	  infurtherance of the common intention of all.In  the	 second	 charge	 it  was  clearly  stated  that	 theappellants and accused Nos. 5 & 6 committed the503murder by. intentionally causing the death of the  deceased.No  doubt it would have been better if in the charge  s.  34had  been  specified.  But the mere omission to	 specify  itcannot in the circumstances of this case have any effect  asno prejudice has been alleged or shown.	 As a matter of factthis  question	was never agitated in either of	 the  Courtsbelow.	 This Court in Willie (William) Slaney v. The  Stateof Madhya Pradesh (1) has laid down the law in regard to theeffect of a defect in a charge.	 In that case the charge wasunder  s. 302, read with s. 34 and the conviction was  unders.  302, Indian Penal Code.  It was there pointed  out	thatprocedural laws are designed to subserve the ends of justiceand  not  to frustrate them and if the	trial  is  conductedsubstantially in the manner prescribed by the Code but	someirregularity  occurs  in  the course  of  such	conduct	 theirregularity  is  curable under s. 537,	 Criminal  ProcedureCode.	See: Pulukuri Kotayya v. King Emperor- (2).  As	 waspointed by Viscount Sumner in Atta Mohammad v. King  Emperor(3):"  In the complete absence of any substantial injustice,  inthe  complete absence of anything that outrages what is	 dueto  natural justice in criminal cases, their Lordships	findit impossible to advise His Majesty to interfere.The object of a charge is to warn the accused person of	 thecase  he is to answer.	It cannot be treated as if it was  apart of a ceremonial.  Bose J. observed in William  Slaney'scase,  (1)  with  reference to ss. 232 (1) and	535  of	 theCriminal  Procedure Code where the words used are "  by	 theabsence of a charge " in s. 232(1) and no charge was  framed" in s. 535:"  We  see no reason for straining at the meaning  of  theseplain and emphatic provisions unless ritual and form are  tobe  regarded as of the essence in criminal trials.   We	 areunable to find any magic or charm in the ritual of a charge.It  is the substance of these provisions that count and	 nottheir  outward form.  To hold otherwise is only	 to  provideavenues of escape for the guilty and afford no protection tothe innocent."(1) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 1140, 1165.(2) (1946) L.R. 74 I.A. 65, 75.(3) (1929) L.R. 57 I.A. 71, 76.504The  imperfection  in  the charge  is  curable	provided  noprejudice has been shown to have resulted because of it. Theappellants  had	 notice	 that they were	 being	tried  as  "sharers in the offence "' and their liability was collectiveand  vicarious	and  not individual.  No  doubt	 they,	werecharged,  under s. 149 of the Indian Penal Code	 with  beingmembers	 of an unlawful assembly the common object of  whichwas  murder of the deceased but they were also charged	thatthey  with  accused  Nos.  5 & 6  had  committed  murder  byintentionally  causing	the  death  of	the  deceased.	 Theprosecution  led evidence to show that at least two  of	 theappellants  were waiting for the arrival of the evening	 Busby which the deceased and his companions were traveling	 andthat  the  appellants and others met them at  the  bund	 andthere was a concerted attack by them followed by a chase andassault	 with  choppers by all the appellants  resulting  indeath  because of 24 injuries of a serious nature  given  bythe   appellants  collectively.	  Of  these  injury  No.   5individually and others cumulatively were sufficient in	 theordinary  course  of nature to cause death.  Section  34  isonly  a rule of evidence and does not create  a	 substantiveoffence.    It	 means,	 that  if  two	 or   more   personsintentionally  do a thing jointly it is just the same as  ifeach  of them had done individually.  As the  Privy  Councilhave pointed out in Barendra Kumar Ghosh v. King Emperor (1)"  Sect. 34 deals with the doing of separate acts,  similiaror diverse, by several persons, if all are done in  further-ance  of a' common intention, each person is liable for	 theresult of them all, as if he had done them himself....The appellants' defence was a total denial of taking part inthe  offence.	When examined under s. 342 of  the  CriminalProcedure  Code	 they stated that the prosecution  case	 wasfalse.	They did not state anything indicative of  prejudicehaving resulted as a consequence of a defect in the  charge.To  every  question put to them, their reply  was  that	 theprosecution  evidence was false.  One such question and	 theanswer to it was:Q.   " The witnesses have deposed that at about(1) (1924) L.R., 52 I. A.40, 51.5058-30  on the night of 25th August, 1952, you along with	 theaccused	 persons  1,  3, 4 and 5 came  upon  the  tank	bundholding	 a  matchu in the hand in order to hit	Anne  Gowda.What do you say regarding this matter ?A.This is absolutely false."In answer to another question as to whether he had assaultedthe deceased with a chopper, appellant No. 1 stated that  henever  saw  the deceased on that date and the  evidence	 wasfalse  and  the other two appellants just  stated  that	 theevidence  for  the prosecution was false.  The form  of	 thequestions  indicates  notice  to the  appellants  that	the,prosecution  was  relying on collective	 responsibility	 andtheir  -having acted with a common intention.  They did	 notplead  prejudice  due  to the want of s. 34  in	 the  chargeitself.	  The judgment of the High Court does  not  indicatethat any such objection was taken before it.The grounds of appeal taken in the High Court are not beforeus, but their application under Art. 134 (1)(c) made to	 theHigh Court shows that objection was taken as to the  failureto specify s. 34 in the following words:" There is no charge framed in the case against accused 2, 3and  4, 5 and 6 for ail offence under Section 302 read	withSection 34 of the Indian Penal Code.  It was, therefore, nota case in which accused 2, 3, 4 alone could be convicted  ofthe  charge  under Section 302 by resorting to the  rule  ofcommon	intention under Section 34 of the Indian Penal	Codefor two reasons, viz.,(a)  There is no charge under Section 34 of the Indian PenalCode;(b)  If it is implied', Accused 5 and 6 are out of the groveand  there is no evidence of any prior conspiracy  conduciveto  that requisite inference.  Further it will be seen	fromthe  evidence  of the eye-witnesses it is  not	possible  topredicate  which blow caused by which instrument,  by  whichaccused	 resulted  in death.  Therefore it is a	 case  whichaccused 2, 3 and 4 are charged on individual  responsibilityalone for having caused murder punishable under Section 302,Indian506Penal Code individually.  Neither the trial Court nor it  issubmitted  the High Court has considered this aspect of	 thematter	and has considered the individual responsibility  ofaccused 2, 3 and 4 for their individual acts"and  in	 their	grounds of appeal filed in  this  Court	 thelanguage is the same.  Nowhere has it been alleged that as aresult of omission to specify s. 34 in the charge there	 wasany prejudice and nothing is disclosed whether by the  trendof  cross-examination or by anything on the record  to	showthat  the  appellants were misled by this  omission  in	 thecharge.	   No  case  of	 prejudice  has	 been	alleged	  orestablished  and there are no-facts on the consideration  ofwhich  the conclusion could be reached that  the  convictionunder s. 302 is vitiated as a result of prejudice.This  Court in Rawalpenta Venkulu v. The State of  Hyderabad(1), held that the omission to add s. 34 of the Indian PenalCode in a charge had only an academic significance where theaccused had notice as to what they were being charged  with.That was a case where in pursuance of a conspiracy to commitmurder	the  accused  after locking the room  in  which	 thedeceased  was  sleeping set fire to it and thus	 caused	 hisdeath.	 The  charge against the accused  persons  was	onlyunder  s. 302 without s. 34.  On the evidence the  intentionto  kill was held proved as each one of the  appellants	 hadactively contributed to setting fire to the room by  puttinglighted matches to it while the deceased had been trapped init  and	 "  each  one of them  therefore  severally  and  inpursuance  of  the common intention brought about  the	sameresult	by  his own act." In the trial	Court  the  SessionsJudge had explained the charge as follows:"  You	are  charged  of  the  offence	that  you  with	 theassistance   of	 the  other  present  accused  with   commonintention................................"From this the Court came to the conclusion that the  accusedhad  clear  notice  that they were being  charged  with	 theoffence	 of committing murder in pursuance of  their  commonintention and, therefore, the omission(1)  A.I.R. 1956 S.C. 171,507of  s. 34 in the charge had only academic  significance	 andhad  in no way misled the accused.  Thus the accent  was  onwhether	 the  accused were misled or not  or  any  prejudiceresulted  from the omission in the charge and on  the  factsand circumstances of that case this Court was of the opinionthat they were not and there was no prejudice.Chikkarange Gowda v. State of Mysore (1), was relied upon bythe  appellants' counsel.  In that case the accused  personswere charged as follows:"  That	 you  on or about the 18th day of  April,  1951,  atTalkad	 were  member  of  an  unlawful	 assembly   and	  inprosecution of the common object or intention or such as youknow  to  be likely to be committed in prosecution  of	thatobject or intention, namely, in killing Putte Gowda,  causedthe  death  of	Putte Gowda and Nanje  Gowda,  and  you	 arethereby	 under s. 149 read with s. 34 Penal Code, guilty  ofcausing	 the  said murders, an offence punishable  under  s.302,  Penal Code and within the cognizance of the  Court  ofSessions."The  Sessions  Judge  found that the common  object  of	 theunlawful  assembly or the intention of the accused  was	 notmerely	to  assault Putte Gowda but also to kill  him.	 TheHigh  Court  on appeal held that there was  no	evidence  toprove  or  establish any plan for concerted  action  or	 anycommon	object to kill that individual.	 But it was  of	 theopinion	 that the people of the locality were  annoyed	withPutte Gowda and the common object of the assembly as a wholewas  to give severe and open chastisement only.	 The  personwho  was  stated to, have given the fatal  injury  to  PutteGowda  was  acquitted  by the High Court on  the  ground  ofinsufficiency  of  evidence and the other two  accused	wereheld guilty for severely assaulting the deceased and  guiltyof  murder.   In  this Court it was contended  that  on	 thefindings  given	 by the High Court in regard to	 the  commonobject	of  the unlawful assembly, the conviction  under  s.302/34	or s. 149 was unsustainable and that the  manner  inwhich  the  charges under s.. 149 and 34 were  mixed  up  itcould not be said that the(1)  A.I.R. 1956 S.C. 731,		     508accused had a reasonable opportunity of meeting the  chargesagainst them.  This Court observed that " on the finding  ofthe High Court none of the members of the unlawful  assemblyhad the intention of killing Putte Gowda." It also held thatthe  way in which the charge was framed gave the accused  noeffective  notice  of the case they had to meet.   In  thesecircumstances the case of separate common intention of threepersons	 was  distinct from the common object of  the  othermembers	 of  the  unlawful  assembly  and,  therefore,	 thequestion was not whether the specific charge under s. 34 wasor was not necessary but whether a reasonable opportunity ofmeeting	 the case of some of the accused having	 a  separatecommon	intention  different  from that	 of  others  of	 theunlawful assembly, was given and as the finding was that  ithad  not  been given the conviction of the two	accused	 foroffence	 under s. 302/34 was unsustainable.  That  case	 hasnot  laid  down	 a  rule  different  from  Willie  (William)Slaney's case (1).  It merely emphasises that in the case ofimperfection of a charge if prejudice is shown a  convictionof  an accused would be insupportable.	In the present	casethe common intention of the appellants is indicated by theirconduct,  the ferocity of the attack, the weapon  used,	 thesitus  of  the	injuries  and their  nature  and  there	 waspreconcert  as	shown by the evidence of P. Ws. 10  and	 11.They have therefore been rightly convicted of murder assharers ill the offenceWe would, therefore, dismiss these appeals.	      Appeals dismissed.(1) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 1 140, 1 1165.509