PETITIONER:DIN DAYAL SHARMA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESHDATE OF JUDGMENT:23/04/1959BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1959 AIR  831		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 776 CITATOR INFO : F	    1974 SC 765	 (5)ACT:Criminal   Trial-Bribery  and  criminal	  misconduct-Accusedcommitted to Court of Session-Law amended making such  casestriable by Special judge-Sessions Judge, if has jurisdictionto  continue  trial-Investigation by  officer  below  DeputySuperintendent	of Police-Whether trial	 vitiated-Preventionof  Corruption Act, 1947 (II Of 1947), s.  5-A-Criminal	 Law(Amendment) Act, 1952 (46 of 1952), S. 10.HEADNOTE:The  appellant	was committed to the Court  of	Session	 fortrial of  offences  under s. 5(2) Prevention  of  CorruptionAct, 1947 and s.    161	  Indian   Penal   Code.     Shortlythereafter, the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 1952 came intoforce.	An Assistant Sessions judge tried the appellant	 andconvicted  him	of  the	 offences  charged.   The  appellantcontended  that the trial was vitiated as the  investigationhad  been made by a police officer below the rank of  DeputySuperintendent	of  Police and that the	 Assistant  Sessionsjudge had no jurisdiction to try the case as it was  triableby a Special Judge.Held that, the Assistant Sessions judge had jurisdiction to777try  the case.	Section 10 of the Criminal  Law	 (Amendment)Act, 1952 transferred only cases pending before	 Magistratesto Special judges but did not transfer cases which had	beencommitted  to  Court  of Session before the  Act  came	intoforce.Asgarali Nazarali Singaporewalla v. The State, [1957] S.C.R.678, relied on.Held  further that, the conviction was not vitiated  by	 theinvestigation having been made by an officer below the	rankof  a  Deputy Superintendent of Police.	 If the	 matter	 hadbeen urged before the Courts at an early stage it would havehad  to take steps to get the illegality cured	by  orderingfresh  investigations.	 But  the  appellant  could  not  bepermitted  to  raise  the questions  whether  the  objectionregarding investigation had been taken at the earliest stageas the question had not been raised in the Courts below.H.N. Rishbud v. The State of Delhi, [1955] 1 S.C.R. II50,relied on.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: CRIMINAL Appeal No. 95  of1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedDecember  16, 1955, of the Allahabad High Court in  CriminalRevision  No. 1403 of 1953, arising out of the Judgment	 andorder  dated August 6, 1953, of the Court of the  AdditionalSessions Judge at Meerut in Criminal Appeal No. 225 of 1953.H.   J. Umrigar and K. L. Mehta, for the appellant.G.   C.	 Mathur,  C.  P.  Lal and G.  N.  Dikshit,  for	 therespondent.1959.  April 23.  The Judgment of-the Court was delivered byIMAM,  J.-The appellant was convicted under s. 5(2)  of	 thePrevention of Corruption Act and under s. 161 of the  IndianPenal Code and sentenced to one year's rigorous imprisonmenton each count.	The sentences were made to run concurrently.On  the	 facts	found  by the  courts  below  the  appellantaccepted   Rs.	20/-  as  illegal  gratification  from	 oneMalekchand  who had applied for allotment of a	house.	 Theappellant was employed at that time as a clerk in the officeof  the District Relief and Rehabilitation  Office,  Meerut.The aforesaid sum of money was accepted by the appellant  asbribe with a view to getting a house allotted to Malekchand.There can be98778no  question  that, on the facts found,	 the  appellant	 wasguilty	both under s. 5(2) of the Prevention  of  CorruptionAct and under s. 161 of the Indian PenalCode.The  first point taken was that the investigation had  takenplace  by  a  police  officer  below  the  rank	 of   DeputySuperintendent	of Police.  Consequently, the  investigationhad  taken place in contravention of the provisions  of	 thePrevention  of	Corruption  Act.   The	conviction  of	 theappellant  was	therefore vitiated.  This  point  was  takenbefore	the  Additional	 Sessions Judge who  had  heard	 theappeal	of  the	 appellant  against  his  conviction.	 TheAdditional  Sessions  Judge referred to a  decision  of	 theCalcutta  High Court which supported the submission made  onbehalf of the appellant.  He also referred to a decision  ofthe  Allahabad	High  Court  to	 the  contrary	effect.	  Hefollowed,  as  he was bound to follow, the decision  of	 theAllahabad  High	 Court.	 The decision of this Court  in	 thecase of H. N. Rishbud and Inder Singh v. The State of  Delhi(1)  does not support the submission made by Mr. Umrigar  onbehalf of the appellant.  He, however, referred to a passagein  the aforesaid cited decision at page 1164 to the  effectthat  where a breach of a mandatory provision is brought  tothe  knowledge of the court at a sufficiently  early  stage,the  court,  while not declining cognizance, would  have  totake the necessary steps to get the illegality cured and thedefect	rectified  by  ordering such  investigation  as	 thecircumstances  of  the case may call for.  It has  not	beenshown  to' our satisfaction that the attention of the  trialcourt  was  drawn  at an early stage to any  breach  of	 theprovisions  of the Prevention of Corruption Act.  There	 hadbeen  an enquiry before commitment to the Sessions.   It  isclear  that  during these proceedings before  commitment  noobjection was raised that the investigation had taken  placeby a police officer below the rank of Deputy  Superintendentof  Police  in	contravention  of  the	provisions  of	 thePrevention  of Corruption Act.	The decision of	 this  Courtwas given on December 14, 1954, and the High Court  judgmentin the present case was delivered on(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1150, 1164.779December 16, 1955.  No point was taken before the High Courtto  the	 effect that the investigation had been made  by  anofficer below the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police incontravention  of  the	provisions  of	the  Prevention	  ofCorruption Act.	 Such an objection should have been taken ifthe  appellant	was prepared to establish  before  the	HighCourt  that the objection had been taken at  a	sufficientlyearly  stage and that in view of the decision of this  Courtin  the case cited the trial court ought not have  proceededwith  the  trial unless the defect had	been  removed.	 Thedecision of this Court in the case cited is clear,  however,that  generally a conviction is not vitiated  because  therehad  not been strict compliance with the provisions  of	 thePrevention of Corruption Act in the matter of  investigationby a police officer.  As to whether the objection was  takenat  a  sufficiently early stage is a question  of  fact	 andought to have been raised in the High Court as the  decisionof this Court in the case cited had been delivered somethinglike  a	 year before.  As this point in this  form  was	 notraised before the High Court we cannot allow it to be raisedat this stage.It was next contended that the Assistant Sessions Judge	 whotried the case had no jurisdiction to try the case as it wastriable by a Special Judge only.  It is clear, however, thatthe  case had been committed to the Court of Session  beforethe  Criminal  Law (Amendment) Act, 1952, came	into  force.Under  s. 10 of this Act all cases pending before the  Courtof  a Magistrate were transferred to the Court of a  SpecialJudge.	 Section  10  did not  purport	to  transfer  cases,pending	 in the Court of Session at the commencement of	 theAct,  to  the Court of the Special Judge.  In  the  case  ofAsgarali  Nazarali  Singaporewalla v.  The  .State(1),	thisCourt  observed	 "The cases which were	pending	 before	 thecourts	of  sessions did not require to	 be  so	 transferredbecause	 they would be tried by the procedure  obtaining  inthe  courts of sessions and nothing further required  to  bedone."	It seems clear to us, therefore, that the  AssistantSessions Judge had jurisdiction to try the case as the	samehad been(1)[1957] S.C.R. 678, 686.780pending	 in  the  court of Session when the  Act  came	intoforce.The  third contention raised was that the courts  below	 hadnot correctly appreciated the nature, extent and the quantumof proof required for raising the presumption under s. 4  ofthe Prevention of Corruption Act.  The High Court's judgmentdoes  not  show	 that  that Court  in  any  way	 raised	 anypresumption under s. 4 against the appellant.  The followingpassage	 from  the  High Court's judgment  would  make	thisclear:" It was next contended that the evidence on the record doesnot satisfactorily prove that the sum of Rs.20 was  receivedby  the applicant as illegal gratification.  The finding  onthis  point is a finding of fact.  I have gone	through	 thejudgment of both the courts below and I see no	satisfactoryreason	to disagree with the concurrent finding of both	 thecourts on this point.  There is ample evidence on behalf  ofthe prosecution to the conclusion that the sum of Rs. 20 waspaid  by Malekchand to the applicant on his demand in  orderto  secure the allotment of a house.  There does not  appearany satisfactory reason why Malekchand should have paid	 Rs.20 to the applicant to procure wheat for him."There  is, therefore, no question of any  presumption  beingraised against the appellant.  On the contrary, his  defencethat  he  had  taken the sum of Rs. 20	from  Malekchand  topurchase  wheat	 for him was  disbelieved  and	Malekchand'sevidence that he had taken this money in order to secure  anallotment  of  a house for Malekchand was  accepted.   Thereappears to be no substance in the point raised. It  was  next	urged that the matter  of  sentence  may  beconsidered.   The  incident  took  place  in  1951  and	 theappellant has been on bail and it would not be desirable  tosend  him  back	 to  jail.   The  sentence  of	one   year'simprisonment  for  corruption by a  public  servant  cannot,however, be considered as unduly severe.The appeal is accordingly dismissed.Appeal dismissed.781