PETITIONER:THE STATE OF MADRAS	Vs.RESPONDENT:GANNON DUNKERLEY & CO.,(MADRAS) LTD.DATE OF JUDGMENT:01/04/1958BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABOSE, VIVIANDAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  560		  1959 SCR  379ACT:       Sales  Tax-Building contracts-Tax on supply of materials	 in       construction  works--State's  Power of  taxation-"  Sale	 of       goods ", Meaning of-Legislative practice-Nature of agreement       in  building,  contracts	 Sale of Goods Act,  1930  (III	 of       1930), S. 4 Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939 (Mad.  IX	 of       1939), as amended by Madras Act XXV Of 1947, SS. 2(c)(h)(i),       Explanation 1(i), r. 4(3)-Government of India Act, 1935	(26       Geo. 5, Ch. 2), S. 107, Sch.  VII, List II, Entry 48.HEADNOTE:The  respondent company, doing business, inter alia, in	 theconstruction  of  buildings,  roads  and  other	 works	 wasassessed  to  sales  tax by the sales  tax  authorities	 whosought	to include, the value of the materials used  in	 theexecution of building contracts within the taxable  turnoverof  the	 respondent.   The validity of	the  assessment	 waschallenged by the respondent who contended that the power ofthe Madras Legislature to impose a tax on sales under  Entry48  in List II in Sch.	VII of the Government of India	Act,1935,  did  not	 extend to imposing a tax on  the  value  ofmaterials  used	 in  construction works,  as  there  was  notransaction of sale in respect of those goods, and that	 theprovisions  introduced in the Madras General Sales Tax	Act,1939, by the Madras General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1947,authorising  the  imposition of such tax were  ultra  vires.The  Sales Tax Appellate Tribunal rejected the	respondent'scontention but, on380revision, the High Court took the view that the expression "sale  of goods " had the same meaning in Entry 48  which  ithas  in	 the  Indian  Sale of  Goods  Act,  1930,  that	 theconstruction contracts of the respondent were agreements  toexecute	 works to be paid for according to  measurements  atthe  rates specified in the schedule thereto, and  were	 notcontracts  for sale of the materials used therein, and	thatfurther,  they were entire and indivisible and could not  bebroken	up  into  a contract for sale  of  materials  and  acontract  for payment for work done.  Accordingly,  it	heldthat  the  impugned  provisions	 introduced  by	 the  MadrasGeneral	 Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1947, were	ultra  wiresthe powers of the provincial Legislature.  On appeal to	 theSupreme Court:Held,  (1)  On the true interpretation of the  expression  "sale  of  goods	 " there must be an  agreement	between	 theparties	 for the sale of the very goods in which  eventuallyproperty passes.Poppatlal Shah v. The State of Madras, [1953] S.C.R. 677 andThe  State  of	Bombay v. The United  Motors  (India)  Ltd.,II9531 S.C.R. 1069, relied on.In a building contract, the agreement between the parties isthat the contractor should construct the building  accordingto  the	 specifications contained in the agreement,  and  inconsideration therefor receive payment as provided  therein,and in such an agreement there is neither a contract to sellthe  materials:used in the construction, nor  does  propertypass therein as moveables.(2)  The expression " sale of goods" was, at the  time	whenthe  Government of India Act, 1935, was enacted, a  term  ofwellrecognised	legal import in the general law relating  tosale  of goods and in the legislative practice	relating  tothat topic and must be interpreted in Entry 48 in List II inSch.   VII of the Act as having the same meaning as  in	 thesale of Goods Act, 1930.The Sales Tax Officeyr Pilibhit v. Messrs.  Budh Prakash jaiPyakash, [1955] 1 S.C.R. 243, relied on.(3)In	a  building  contract  which  is  One,	entire	 andindivisible, there is no sale of goods and it is not  withinthe competence of the Provincial Legislature under Entry  48in  List  11 in Sch.  VII of the Government  of	 India	Act,1935, to impose a tax on the supply of the materials used insuch a contract treating it as sale.Pandit Banaysi Das v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (1955) 6 S.T.C.  93, Bhuramal v. State of Rajasthan, A. I. R.  1957	Raj.104, Mohamad Khasim v. State of Alysoye, A. 1. R. 1955	MYs.41 and Gannon Dunkeyley & Co. v. Sales Tax officer, A. I. R.1957 Ker. 146, disapproved.Jubilee	 Engineeying Co. Ltd. v. Sales Tax Offence .  I.  R.1956 Hyd. 79, approved.(4)The Madras General Sales Tax Act is a law relating not tosale  of goods but to tax on sale of goods and	consequentlythe381Madras	General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1947, is not	 badunder  s. 107 of the Government of India Act, 1935,  On	 theground	that it had not been reserved for the assent of	 theGovernor-General.D.   Saykar ' Bros. v. Commercial Tax Officer, A. I. R. 1957Cal. 283, disapproved.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISIDICTION: Civil Appeal No.  ---210  of1956.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated April 5, 1954,  ofthe Madras High Court in Civil Revision Petition No. 2292 of1952, arising out of the judgment and order dated August 11,1952, of the Sales Tax Appellate Tribunal, Madras, in T.  A.No. 863 of 1951.1958.  Jan. 22, 23, 24 ; Feb. 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11.V.K  T. Chari, Advocate General for the State of Madras	 andR.  H.	Dhebar, for the appellant.  The	 provisions  of	 theConstitution  Act which confer legislative powers should  beconstrued  liberally.  see  Navinchandra  Mafatlal  v.	 Thecommissioner  of income Tax, [1955] 1 S. C. R. 829 it 833  ;Broken	Hill  south  Ltd. v. Commissioner  of  Taxation,  v.stronach  (55 337 at 379); Love v. Norman Wright  (Builders)Ltd.  ([1944] 1 K. B. 484); In re the Central Provinces	 andBerar-	Act  No. XI V of 1938 ( [1939] F. C.  R.  18).	 Thewords  " sale of goods " in Entry 48 have to be	 interpretedin  a  wide  sense  and	 not in	 the  narrow  sense  of	 thedefinition of sale of goods contained in the Indian Sale  ofGoods  Act, 1930.  See lrving's Commonwealth Sales  Tax	 Lawand   Practice,	  at  pp.  62,	77.   The   Deputy   FederalCOmmissioner of Taxation v. Stronach (55 C.L.R. 305); M.  R.Hornibrook (pty.  Ltd.) v. Federal Commissioner of  Taxation(62 C. L. R. 272 at 276).Mahabir Prasad, Advocate General for the State of Bihar	 andR.  C.	Prasad, for the State of  Bihar	 (Intervener).	 Thequestion is whether definition in the Sales Tax Act enlargesthe  concept of sale of goods as in the Sale of	 Goods	Act.The only requirement of a sale of goods is that there shouldbe transfer of property in goods for valuable consideration.See  Hudson  on	 Building  Contracts,  7th  Edn.,  p.	386.Building Contracts involve sale of materials.382S.M. Sikri, Advocate General for the State of Punjab,N.	  S.Bindra	and T M. Sen, for the State of Punjab  (Intervener).The  words  "taxes on the sale of goods" in  Entry  48	meantaxes on a transaction the effect of Which is to transfer toa  person for valuable considers tion, all the rights of  anowner  in the goods.  Sale of goods need not necessarily  bein pursuance of a contract.  Even an auction sale is a	saleand can be subjected to sales tax.  Exchange is also a	saleof goods.  See Blackstone; Chalmers Sales of Goods Act, 12thEdn., pp. 3, 172; Benjamin on Sales 8th Ed., p. 2; Halsbury,Vol.  29, 2nd Edn., p. 5, see p. 6, footnote (c);  Willistonon  Sales Vol. 1, revised Ed., p. 2, 433.  Sale has a  widermeaning and a prior agreement to sell goods is not necessaryto constitute sale of goods.  See Great Western Railway	 Co.v.  Commissioners of Inland Revenue, ([1894] 1 Q. B. 507  at512, 515, 516); Kirkness v. Johib Hudson & Co. Ltd., ([1955]A.  C.	696 at 719, 737); Nalukuya v. Director	of  Lands  ([1957]	A. C. 325 at 332) ; Ex-parte Drake, In re  Ware	 ((I877)  5 Ch.  D. 866 at 871); Blome Co. v. Ames	((1937)	 IIIA.L.  R.  940)	though a contrary view	has  been  taken  inHerlihy	 Mid-Continent Co. v. Nudelman ( (1937) 115 A.L.  R.485); Morgan v. Deputy Federal Commissioner of Land Tax,  N.S.  W.,	 (  (1912) 15 C. L. R. 661  at	665).	The  entriesconferring  legislative power are flexible and	elastic	 andshould be so construed as to include the extended and  widermeaning of the words used therein.  Entry 48 should  includenot  only  what was understood as sales at the time  of	 theenactment of the Government of India Act, 1935, but also allthat  which  may  be regarded as sales later  on.   See	 TheRegulation and Control of Radio Communication in Canada,  Inre ( [1932] A. C. 304 at 314); The King v. Brislan: Ex-parteWilliams (54 C. L. R. 262 at 273, 283); Toronto	 Corporationv.  Bell Telephone Company of Canada, ( [1905] A. C.  52  at57); Attorney General v. Edison Telephone Company of  London(  (1880)  L.R.	 6 Q. B. ]D. 244 at 254);  Nevile  Reid	 andCompany Ltd. v. The Commissioners of Inland Revenue (12	 TaxCas. 245 at 565, 567) ; Edwards v. A. G. for Canada,  [1930]A. C. 1.24 at 127, 134); Attorney-General for383Alberta	 v. Attorney-General for Canada, ( [1947] A. C.	 503at  516, 517) ; Newcastle Breweries Ltd. v.  Inland  RevenueCommissioner,,?,  (96 L. J. K. B. 735); It is a	 fallacy  todeduce from the proposition that because the contract is notan agreement to sell goods but a contract of work and labourno  sale  of  goods  takes place.  A  works  contract  is  acomposite  transaction which can be split up and a  sale  ofgoods  in the sense of the Sales of Goods Act can  be  speltout  of it and it is permissible for the State to do so	 andto tax the sale of goods.  Benjamin on Sales, pp. 155,	156,167  and  352; Seath v. Moore (11 App.	Cas. 350);  Reid  v.Macbeth	 & Gray ( [1904] A. C. 223) ; Langford Property	 CO.Ltd. v. Batten ( [1951] A. C. 786 at 813).C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor General of India and T. M.	Sen,for the State of Mysore (Intervener).  Sale of goods   isnothing	 but a transfer of property for a price, There	neednot be any bargain or contract to sell-but the sale must  bevoluntary.  See Apple by v. Myres (L.	R.  2 C. P.  651  at658); Reeves v. Barlow (L.  R. 12 Q.	B.    436).	 Thecomposite  transaction of a works, contract can be split  upand the sale of goods therein be taxed.Sardar	Bahadur,  for  the  State  of  Kerala	(Intervener)supported the appellant.A.   V.	  Viswanatha  Sastri,  R.  Ganapathy  Iyer  and	  G.Gopalakrishnan,	 for  the respondents.	The  powers  of	 thelegislatures  are limited and the Entries fix the bounds  oflegislation.  See The Queen v. Buralh (5 I. A. 178 at  193);James  v. Commonwealth of Australia, ( [1936] A. C.  578  at613, 633); In re The Central Provinces and Berar Act XIV  of1938  ( [1939] F. C. R. 18, 36, 37).  In the absence of	 anypositive  directive  in the (Constitution Act  itself  or  acompelling  contest, Entries have to be interpreted  in	 thelight of existing law so as to be in conformity with it. Theexpression  "  sale  of	 goods " was, at  the  time  of	 theenactment  of the Government of India Act, 1935, a  term  ofwell  recognised legal import and it must be interpreted  inEntry 48 as having the same meaning as in the Sale of  GoodsAct, 1930.  See384L'Union	 St. Jacques De Montreal v. Be Lisle (L.R. 6 P.	 (C.31 at 36) ; Royal Bank of Canada v. Larue ( [1928] A. C. 187at  196); Wallace Brothers and Co.  Ltd. v. Commissioner  ofIncome Tax, (75 I. A. 86 at 99); In re The Central Provincesand Berar Act XI V of 1938, ( [1939] F. C. R. 18 at 53,	 54);  The State of Bombay v. F. N. Balsara, ( [1951] S.  (.  R.682 at 705).  The expression 'sale of goods' has always beenunderstood by the Supreme Court in the sense, of the Sale ofGoods  Act,  1930.   See Poppatlal Shah	 v.  The,  State  ofMadras, (11953] S. C. R. 677 at 683); The State of Bombay v.The  United  Motors (India) Ltd., ([1953] S. C. R.  1069  at1082,  110, 1102); State of Travancore-Cochin  v.  ShanmughaVilas Cashew Nut Factory, ([1954] S. C. R. 53 at 80); BengalImmunity  Co., Ltd. v. The State of' Bihar, ([1955] 2 S.  C.R. 603 at 698, 700, 704).  The , matter is concluded by	 thedecision  in The Sales Tax Officer, Pilibhit v.	 Mls.	BudhPrakash Jai Prakas ( [1655] 1 S. C. R. 243 at 247) where  ithas been specifically held that it would be proper to inter-pret  the  expression " sale of goods " in Entry 48  in	 thesense in which it was raised in legislation both in  Englandand in India.The definition of " sale " given in the Madras General salesTax Act, 1939, is in conflict with that given in the Sale ofGoods  Act,  1930, and as sale of goods is  a  matter  whichfalls  within  Entry  10  of  the  (Concurrent	List,,	 thedefinition  in	the Madras Act would be repugnant  and	voidunder  s.  107	of the (Government of India  Act,  1935.  D.Sarkar	& Bros. v. Commercial Tax Officer, (A.	I.  R.	1957(Cal. 283).A works contract cannot be disintegrated into a contract forlabour	 and   a  sale	of  goods.    See   Inland   RevenueCommissioner's v. The Duke of Westminster, [1936] A. (1.   Iit  19,	 24);  Bank of Chettinad  Ltd.	v.  Commissioner  ofIncome-Tax,  Madras,  (67 1. A. 394 at	400-401).   A  workscontract  entire and indivisible; it is in no sense sale  ofgoods  or  of materials, nor is there any sale of  goods  ormaterials  "  chattels within the meaning of Entry  48.	  InEnglish	 cases	a clear (distinction has been  made  betweenworks  contract and sale of goods.  See Lee v. Griffin	(121E.R. 716); Robinson v.385Graves,	 ( [1935] 1 K. B. 579 at 590, 593); Love  v.  NormanWright	(.Builders  Ltd.)  ([1944] 1  K.B.  484);  Tripp  v.Armitage, (150 E. R. 1597), Clark v. Bulmer (152 E.    R.793); Appleby v. Myers (L.  R. 2 C. P. 651 at 658); Seath v.Moore (11 App.	Cas. 350 at 381); Reid v. Macbeth & Gray,  ([1904]	A. C. 223).  See also Hudson on Building  Contracts,pp. 165, 386 and 388 Benjamin on Sales, pp. 352 to 355.Gopal Singh, for Gurbaksh Singh and M/s.  Uttam Singh Duggal&  Co.	(Interveners) and B. R. L. lyengar, for	 the  UnitedEngineering Co. (Intervener), supported the respondents.V.   V.	 Raghavan, for the appellant, replied.	 Legislativehistory	 should	 not be pushed too far.	 See In	 re  CentralProvinces and Berar Act XI V of 1938 ( [1939] F. C. R. 18 at54); Edwards v. A. G. for Canada ( [1930) A. C. 124 at 134);Wallace Brothers case (75 1. A. 86 at 99); Poppatlal Shah v.The  State  of	Madras, ( [1953] S. C.	R.  677).   A  workscontract  can be split up. Viewed from the point of view  ofthe  contractor,  he sells materials  and  renders  service.There is a sale of goods in the contract.S.   M.	 Sikri,	 Advocate-General for the  State  of  Punjab(with  the permission of the Court).  Grant  of	 legislativepower	has  been  widely  interpreted.	  See,	 ContinentalIllinois  National  Bank & Trust Co. of Chicago	 v.  ChicagoRock Island & Pacific Railway Co. (79 L. Ed. 1110 at  1124);South Carolina v. United States, (50	L. Ed. 262 at  269).Legislative history cannot be used  to cut down the  meaningof the Entry, but only	 to  enlarge it.   Lefroys  CanadianFederal System, pp. 14, 15 and 18.  There is no	 legislativepractice with respect to " taxes on sale of goods ".1958.  April 1. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byVENKATARAMA  AIYAR J.-This appeal arises out of	 proceedingsfor  assessment of sales tax payable by the respondents	 forthe year 1949-1950, and it raises a question of considerableimportance  on	the construction of Entry 48 in List  11  ofSch.  VII to the49386Government  of	India  Act, 1935, " Taxes  on  the  sale  ofgoods."The  respondents  are a private limited	 company  registeredunder  the  provisions of the Indian  Companies	 Act,  doingbusiness  in the construction of buildings, roads and  otherworks  and  in the sale of sanitary wares and  other  sundrygoods.	 Before	 the  sales tax	 authorities,  the  disputesranged over a number of items, but we are concerned in	thisappeal	with only two of them.	One is with reference  to  asum  of	 Rs.  29,51,528-7-4 representing the  value  of	 thematerials used by the respondents in the execution of  theirworks contracts, calculated in accordance with the statutoryprovisions  applicable thereto, and the other relates  to  asum  of	 Rs.  1,98,929-0-3 being  the  price  of  foodgrainssupplied by the respondents to their workmen.It  will  be  convenient  at this  stage  to  refer  to	 theprovisions  of the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939  (Mad.IX of 1939), in so far as they are relevant for the  purposeof the present appeal.	Section 2(h) of the Act, as it stoodwhen  it  was enacted, defined " sale " as meaning  "  everytransfer  of the property in goods by one person to  anotherin the course of trade or business for cash or for  deferredpayment	 or  other valuable consideration ".  In  1947,	 theLegislature  of Madras enacted the Madras General Sales	 Tax(Amendment)  Act  No. XXV of 1947  introducing	several	 newprovisions in the Act, and it is necessary to refer to	themso  far as they are relevant for the purpose of the  presentappeal.	  Section 2(c) of the Act had defined " goods  "  asmeaning	  "  all  kinds	 of  movable  property	other	thanactionable  claims, stocks and shares and securities and  asincluding  all materials, commodities and articles", and  itwas  amended  so  as  to include materials  "  used  in	 theconstruction,	fitting	 out,  improvement  or	 repair	  ofimmovable  property  or in the fitting out,  improvement  orrepair of movable property The definition of " sale " in  s.2(h) was enlarged so as to include " a transfer of  propertyin goods involved in the execution of a works contract".  Inthe definition of " turn-387over  "	 in s. 2(i), the following  Explanation	 (1)(i)	 wasadded:"  Subject to such conditions and restrictions, if  any,  asmay be prescribed in this behalf-the amount for which goods are sold shall, in relation to  aworks  contract, be deemed to be the amount payable  to	 thedealer for carrying out such contract, less such portion  asmay  be	 prescribed of such amount, representing  the  usualproportion  of the cost of labour to the cost  of  materialsused in carrying out such contract."A  new	provision was inserted in s. 2(ii)  defining  "workscontract"  as  meaning "any agreement for carrying  out	 forcash or for deferred payment or other valuable considerationthe construction, fitting out, improvement or repair of	 anybuilding,  road, bridge or other immovable property  or	 thefitting	 out, improvement or repair of any movable  property".  Pursuant  to the Explanation (1)(i) in s.  2(i),  a	 newrule, r. 4(3), was enacted that " the amount for which goodsare sold by a dealer shall, in relation to a works contract,be  deemed  to	be  the amount payable	to  the	 dealer	 forcarrying  out  such contract less a sum not  exceeding	suchpercentage  of	the amount payable as may be  fixed  by	 theBoard  of  Revenue, from time to time for  different  areas,representing the usual proportion in such areas of the	costof labour to the cost of materials used in carrying out suchcontract,     subject	 to    the     following     maximumpercentages............	 and  then follows a  scale  varyingwith the nature of the contracts.It  is	on  the	 authority  of	these  provisions  that	 theappellant  seeks  to  include in the turnover  of  the	res-pondents the sum of Rs. 29,51,528-7-4 being the value of thematerials used in the construction works as determined underr. 4(3).  The respondents contest this claim on the ground Ithat the power of the Madras Legislature to impose a tax  onsales  under  Entry  48	 in List II  in	 Sch.	VII  of	 theGovernment  of India Act, does not extend to imposing a	 taxon  the	 value of materials used in works, as  there  is  notransaction of sale in respect of those goods, and that	 theprovisions388introduced by the Madras General Sales Tax (Amendment)	Act,1947,  authorising  the	 imposition of such  tax  are  ultravires.	 As  regards  the  sum	of  Rs.	 1,98,929-0-3,	 thecontention  of the respondents was that they were not  doingbusiness  in the sale of foodgrains, that they had  suppliedthem  to the workmen when they were engaged in	constructionworks in out of the way places, adjusting the price thereforin  the wages due to them and that the amounts	so  adjustedwere  not liable to be included in the turnover.  The  SalesTax Appellate Tribunal rejected both these contentions,	 andheld that the amounts in question were liable to be includedin the taxable turnover of the respondents.Against	 this  decision,  the  respondents  preferred  CivilRevision  Petition  No. 2292 of 1952 to the  High  Court  ofMadras.	 That was heard by Satyanarayana Rao and RajagopalanJJ. who decided both the points in their favour.  They	heldthat the expression "sale of goods" had the same meaning  inEntry  48 which it has in the Indian Sale of Goods Act	(IIIof 1930), that the construction contracts of the respondentswere agreements to execute works to be paid for according tomeasurements at the rates specified in the schedule thereto,and were not contracts for sale of the materials used there-in,  and that further, they were entire and indivisible	 andcould not be broken up into a contract for sale of materialsand  a contract for payment for work done.  In	the  result,they  held  that the impugned provisions introduced  by	 theAmendment  Act No. XXV of 1947, were ultra vires the  powersof  the Provincial Legislature, and that the claim based  onthose provisions to include Rs. 29,51,528-7-4 in the taxableturnover  of  the respondents could not be  maintained.	  Asregards the item of Rs. 1,98,929-0-3 they held that the saleof  foodgrains to the workmen was not in the course  of	 anybusiness of buying or selling those goods, that there was noprofit	motive	behind	it, that the  respondents  were	 notdealers	 as  defined  in  s. 2(d)  of  the  Act,  and  that,therefore, the amount in question was not liable to be taxedunder  the  Act.   In  the result,  both  the  amounts	weredirected  to  be excluded from the taxable turnover  of	 therespondents.  Against this		  389decision,  the	State of Madras has  preferred	the  presentappeal on a certificate granted by the High Court under Art.133(1) of the constitutionBefore	us, the learned Advocate-General of Madras  did	 notpress  the appeal in so far as it relates to the sum of	 Rs.1,98,929-0-3,	and  the  only	question,  therefore,	thatsurvives  for our decision is as to whether  the  provisionsintroduced by the Madras General Sales Tax (Amendment)	Act,1947  and  set out above are ultra vires the powers  of	 theProvincial  Legislature	 under	Entry 48 in  List  II`.	  Asprovisions  similar  to those in the Madras  Act  now  underchallenge  are	to be found in the sales tax laws  of  otherStates, some of those States, Bihar, Punjab, Mysore,  Keralaand  Andhra  Pradesh,  applied for  and	 obtained  leave  tointervene in this appeal, and we have heard learned  counselon their behalf.  Some of the contractors who are interestedin  the	 decision of this question,  Gurbax  Singh,  Messrs.Uttam Singh Duggal and United Engineering Company, were alsogranted leave to intervene, and learned counsel representingthem have also addressed us on the points raised.The  sole  question  for determination	in  this  appeal  iswhether	 the provisions of the Madras General Sales Tax	 Actare  ultra vires, in so far as they seek to impose a tax  onthe  supply  of	 materials in execution	 of  works  contracttreating  it as a sale of goods by the contractor,  and	 theanswer	to it must depend on the meaning to be given to	 thewords " sale of goods " in Entry 48 in List II of Sch.	 VIIto  the	 Government of India Act, 1935.	 Now, it  is  to  benoted  that while s. 311(2) of the Act defines " goods "  asincluding  " all materials, commodities and articles  ",  itcontains no definition of the expression " sale of goods  ".It  was	 suggested  that  the word  "  materials  "  in	 thedefinition  of " goods " is sufficient to take in  materialsused  in  a works contract.  That is so;  but  the  questionstill  remains	whether there is a sale of  those  materialswithin the meaning of that word in Entry 48.  On that, therehas  been sharp conflict of opinion among the  several	HighCourts.	  In Pandit Banarsi Das v. State of  Madhya  Pradesh(1), a Bench of the Nagpur High Court held,(1)  [1955] 6 S.T.C. 93.390differing  from the view taken by the Madras High  Court  inthe  judgment now under appeal, that the provisions  of	 theAct  imposing a tax on the value of the materials used in  aconstruction  on the footing of a sale thereof	were  valid,but  that  they	 were  bad in so  far  as  they	 enacted  anartificial rule for determination of that value by deductingout  of the total receipts a fixed percentage on account  oflabour charges, inasmuch as the tax might, according to thatcomputation,  conceivably  fall on a portion of	 the  labourcharges	 and that would be ultra vires Entry 48.  A  similardecision  was  given  by  the High  Court  of  Rajasthan  inBhuramal  v.  State Of Rajasthan(1).  In Mohamed  Khasim  v.State of Mysore (2), the Mysore High Court has held that theprovisions  of	the Act imposing a tax	on  construction  ofworks are valid, and has further upheld the determination ofthe  value of the materials on a percentage basis under	 therules.	In Gannon Dunkerley & Co. v. Sales Tax Officer	(3),the Kerala High Court has likewise affirmed the validity  ofboth  the provisions imposing tax on construction works	 andthe  rules  providing  for  apportionment  of  value  on   apercentage basis.  In Jubilee Engineering Co., Ltd. v. SalesTax  officer (1) the Hyderabad High Court has  followed	 thedecision of the Madras High Court, and held that the  taxingprovisions   in	 the  Act  are	ultra  vires.	The   entirecontroversy,  it will be seen, hinges on the meaning of	 thewords ',sale of goods " in Entry 48, and the point which  wehave now to decide is as to the correct interpretation to beput on them.The contention of the appellant and of the States which haveintervened  is that the provisions of a	 Constitution  whichconfer	 legislative   powers  should  receive	 a   liberalconstruction,  and that, accordingly, the expression "	saleof  goods  " in Entry 48 should be interpreted	not  in	 thenarrow and technical sense in which it is used in the IndianSale  of  Goods Act, 1930, but in a broad sense.   We  shallbriefly refer to some of the authorities cited in support ofthis position.	In(1)  A.I.R. 1957 Raj. 104.(2)  A.I.R. I055 MYS. 41(3)  A.I.R. 1957 Ker. 146.(4)  A.I.R. 1956 Hyd. 79.	  391British	 Coal  Corporation  v. King (1),  the  question	 waswhether s. 17 of the Canadian Statute, 22 & 24, Geo.  V,  c.53, which abolished the right of appeal to the Privy Councilfrom  any  judgment or order of any court  in  any  criminalcase, was intra vires its powers under the, Constitution Actof  1867.   In	answering it in	 the  affirmative,  ViscountSankey L. C. observed:"  Indeed, in interpreting a constituent or organic  statutesuch  as the Act, that construction most beneficial  to	 thewidest	possible  amplitude of its powers must	be  adopted.This  principle	 has  been again clearly laid  down  by	 theJudicial Committee in Edwards v. A. G. for Canada (2) ".In  James  v.  Commonwealth of Australia  (3),	Lord  Wrightobserved  that a Constitution must not be construed  in	 anynarrow	and pedantic sense.  In In re the Central  Provincesand Berar Act No. XIV of 1938 (4), discussing the principlesof interpretation of a constitutional provision, Sir MauriceGwyer C. J. observed:" I conceive that a broad and liberal spirit should  inspirethose  whose duty it is to interpret it; but I do not  implyby  this  that	they  are free to  stretch  or	pervert	 thelanguage  of the enactment in the interests of any legal  orconstitutional theory, or even for the purpose of  supplyingomissions or of correcting supposed errors.  A Federal Courtwill  not strengthen, but only derogate from, its  position,if  it seeks to do anything but declare the law; but it	 mayrightly	 reflect  that a Constitution of a Government  is  aliving	and organic thing, which of all instruments has	 thegreatest  claim	 to be construed ut res	 magis	valeat	quampereat."The  authority most strongly relied on for the appellant  isthe  decision of this Court in Navinchandra Mafatlal v.	 TheCommissioner  of Income-tax, Bombay City (5), in  which	 thequestion  was  as to the meaning of the word " income  "  inEntry  54  of  List  1.	 The  contention  was  that  in	 thelegislative  practice of both England and India,  that	wordhad been understood as(1)  [1935] A.C. 500, 518.(2)  [1930] A.C. 124, 136.(3)  [1936] A.C. 578, 614.(4)  [1939] F.C.R. j8,37.(5) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 829, 833, 836.392not  including	accretion in value to capital, and  that  itshould	therefore  bear the same meaning in  Entry  54.	  Inrejecting this contention, this Court observed that the	 so-called	"  legislative	practice was  nothing  but  judicialinterpretation	of  the	 word 'income as  appearing  in	 thefiscal	statutes", that in " construing an entry in  a	Listconferring   legislative   powers   the	  widest    possibleconstruction according to their ordinary meaning must be putupon the words used therein ", and that the cardinal rule ofinterpretation	was  " that words should be  read  in  theirordinary,  natural and grammatical meaning, subject to	thisrider that in construing words in a constitutional enactmentconferring  legislative power the most liberal	constructionshould	be  put	 upon the words so that the  same  may	haveeffect in their widest amplitude."The learned Advocate-General of Madras also urged in furthersupport	 of  the above conclusion that the provisions  of  aConstitution  Act  conferring powers of taxation  should  beinterpreted   in  a  wide  sense,  and	relied	on   certainobservations  in  Morgan v. Deputy Federal  Commissioner  ofLand  Tax,  N.	S.  W. (1) and Broken  Hill  South  Ltd.  v.Commissioner  of  Taxation (N.S. W.)(2) in  support  of	 hiscontention.   In  Morgan v. Deputy Federal  Commissioner  ofLand  Tax, N.S. W. (1), the question was as to the  validityof a law which had enacted that lands belonging to a companywere  deemed to be held by its shareholders as joint  ownersand  imposed  a land tax on them in respect of	their  sharetherein.  In upholding the Act, Griffith C. J. observed :"  In  my  opinion,  the  Federal  Parliament  in  selectingsubjects of taxation is entitled to take things as it  findsthem in re rum nature, irrespective of any positive laws  ofthe  States prescribing rules to be observed with regard  tothe  acquisition or devolution of formal title to  property,or  the institution of judicial proceedings with respect  toit."In Broken Hill South Ltd. v. Commissioner of Taxation, N.   S.W. (2), the observations relied on are the following:(I)  (19I2) 15 C.L.R. 661, 666.	 (2) (1937) 56	C.L.R.	337,379.393"In any investigation of the constitutional powers of  thesegreat  Dominion legislatures, it is not proper that a  courtshould	deny  to  such a legislature the  right	 of  solvingtaxation  problems unfettered by a priori  legal  categorieswhich  often derive from the, exercise of legislative  powerin the same constitutional unit."On  these  authorities, the contention of the  appellant  iswell-founded that as the words " sale of goods " in Entry 48occur in a Constitution Act and confer legislative powers onthe  State  Legislature in respect of a	 topic	relating  totaxation,  they must be interpreted not in a restricted	 butbroad  sense.  And that opens up questions as to  what	thatsense is, whether popular or legal, and what its connotationis  either in the one sense or the other.   Learned  counselappearing  for the States and for the assessees have  reliedin  support of their respective contentions on	the  meaninggiven to the word " sale " in authoritative text-books,	 andthey  will now be referred to.	According, to Blackstone,  "sale or exchange is a transmutation of property from one manto another, in consideration of some price or recompense  invalue.	  "   This  passage  has,  however,   to   be	readdistributively	and  so read, sale would  mean	transfer  ofproperty for price.  That is also the definition of " sale "in Benjamin on Sale, 1950 Edn., p. 2. In Halsbury's Laws  ofEngland,  Second Edn., Vol. 29, p. 5, para.  I, we have	 thefollowing:" Sale is the transfer of the ownership of a thing from	 oneperson	 to   another  for  a  money   price.	 Where	 theconsideration  for the transfer consists of other goods,  orsome  other  valuable consideration, not  being	 money,	 thetransaction  is	 called exchange or barter; but	 in  certaincircumstances it may be treated as one of sale.The  law  relating  to contracts of exchange  or  barter  isundeveloped,  but  the courts seem inclined  to	 follow	 themaxim  of civil law, permutatio vicina est emptioni, and  todeal with such contracts as analogous to contracts of  sale.It  is clear, however, that statutes relating to sale  wouldhave no application to transactions by way of barter."59394In Chaliner's Sale of Goods Act, 12th Edn., it is stated  atp.  3  that  " the essence of sale is the  transfer  of	 theproperty  in a thing from one person to another for a  price",  and	 at  p.	 6  it is  pointed  out	 that  "  where	 theconsideration  for the transfer...... consists of the  deli-very of goods, the contract is not a contract of sale but isa  contract of exchange or barter ". In Corpus	Juris,	Vol.55, p. 36, the law is thus stated:"  Sale " in legal nomenclature, is a term of precise  legalimport, both at law and in equity, and has a well defined  "legal  signification,  and  has been said to  mean,  at	 alltimes, a contract between parties to give and pass rights ofproperty for money, which the buyer pays or promises to	 payto the seller for the thing bought or sold.  "It is added that the word "sale" as used by the	 authorities" is not a word of fixed and invariable meaning, but may  begiven a narrow. or broad meaning, according to the  context."  In  Williston on Sales, 1948 Edn., " sale  of  goods"  isdefined	 as " an agreement whereby the seller transfers	 theproperty  in goods to the buyer for a  consideration  calledthe  price " (p. 2). At p. 4439 the learned author  observesthat  " it has doubtless been generally said that the  pricemust  be payable in money ", but expresses his opinion	thatit  may	 be any personal property.  In	the  Concise  OxfordDictionary, " sale " is defined as " exchange of a commodityfor money or other valuable consideration, selling ".It  will be seen from the foregoing that there is  practicalunanimity  of opinion as to the import of the word " sale  "in  its	 legal sense, there being only	some  difference  ofopinion in America as to whether price should be in money orin money's worth, and the dictionary meaning is also to	 thesame  effect.  Now, it is argued by Mr. Sikri,	the  learnedAdvocate-General  of Punjab, that the word " sale "  is,  inits popular sense, of wider import than in its legal  sense,and  that is the meaning which should be given to that	wordin  Entry 48, and he relies in support of this	position  onthe observations in Nevile Reid and Company Ltd.395v.   The  Commissioners	 of Inland Revenue (1).	  There,  anagreement  was entered into on April 12, 1918, for the	saleof  the	 trading  stock	 in  a	brewery	 business  and	 thetransaction  was  actually completed on June 24,  1918.	  Inbetween	 the two dates, the Finance Act, 1918, had(  imposedexcess	profits	 tax,  and  the	 question  was	whether	 theagreement dated April 12, 1918, amounted to a sale in  whichcase the transaction would fall outside the operation of theAct.  The Commissioners had held that as title to the  goodspassed only on June 24, 1918, the agreement dated April	 12,1918,  was only an agreement to sell and not the sale  whichmust  be held to have taken place on June 24, 1918, and	 wastherefore  liable to be taxed.	Sankey J. agreed  with	thisdecision, but rested it on the ground that as the  agreementleft some matters still to be determined and was, in certainrespects, modified later, it could not be held to be a	salefor the purpose of the Act.  In the course of the  judgment,he  observed that " sale " in the Finance Act should not  beconstrued  in  the light of the provisions of  the  Sale  ofGoods  Act,  but  must	be understood  in  a  commercial  orbusiness sense.Now, in its popular sense, a sale is said to take place whenthe bargain is settled between the parties, though  propertyin  the	 goods	may not pass at that  stage,  as  where	 thecontract relates to future or unascertained goods, and it isthat  sense that the learned Judge would appear to have	 hadin his mind when he spoke of a commercial or business sense.But apart from the fact that these observations were obiter,this Court has consistently held that though the word " sale"  in  its  popular sense is not restricted  to	 passing  oftitle,	 and  has  a  wider  connotation  as   meaning	 thetransaction of sale, and that in that sense an agreement  tosell  would,  as one of the essential ingredients  of  sale,furnish	 sufficient nexus for a State to impose a tax,	suchlevy could, nevertheless, be made only when the	 transactionis  one	 of sale, and it would be a sale only  when  it	 hasresulted  in  the passing of property in the  goods  to	 thepurchaser.   Vide Poppatlal Shah v. The State  of  Madras(2)and The State of Bombay v.(1) (1922) 12 Tax Cas. 545.(2) [1953) S.C R. 677, 683.396The  United Motors (India) Ltd. (1).  It has also been	heldin The Sales Tax Officer, Pilibhit v. Messrs.  Budh  PrakashJai  Prakash (2) that the sale contemplated by Entry  48  ofthe  Government	 of India Act was a   transaction  in  whichtitle to the goods passes and a mere executory agreement wasnot a sale within that Entry.  We must accordingly hold thatthe  expression	 "  sale of goods " in Entry  48  cannot  beconstrued  in  its  popular  sense,  and  that	it  must  beinterpreted  in	 its legal sense.  What its  connotation  inthat  sense  is,  must now be ascertained.   For  a  correctdetermination  thereof, it is necessary to digress  somewhatinto the evolution of the law relating to sale of goods.The concept of sale, as it now obtains in our jurisprudence,has  its  roots	 in the Roman law.  Under  that	 law,  sale,emptio venditio, is an agreement by which one person  agreesto  transfer  to another the exclusive	possession  (vacuagnpossesionem tradere) of something (merx) for  consideration.In  the	 earlier  stages of its	 development,  the  law	 wasunsettled whether the consideration for sale should be moneyor  anything  valuable.	  By  a	 rescript  of  the  EmperorsDiocletian and Maximian of the year 294 A.D., it was finallydecided that it should be money, and this law is embodied inthe  Institutes	 of  Justinian, vide  Title  XXIII.   Emptiovenditio is, it may be noted, what is known in Roman law  asa  consensual  contract.  That is to say,  the	contract  iscomplete when the parties agree to it, even without deliveryas  in contracts re or the observance of any formalities  asin contracts verbis and litteris.  The common law of Englandrelating  to sales developed very much on the lines  of	 theRoman  law  in insisting on agreement  between	parties	 andprice as essential elements of a contract of sale of  goods.In his work on " Sale ", Benjamin observes:"  Hence it follows that, to constitute a valid sale,  theremust be a concurrence of the following elements, viz.,(1)  Parties competent to contract; (2) mutual assent; (3) athing,	the  absolute  or  general  property  in  which	  istransferred from the seller to the buyer; and(1) [1953] S.C.R. 1069,1078.(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 243.		    397(4)a price in money paid or promised.  " (Vide 8th Edn.,  p.2).In 1893 the Sale of Goods Act, 56 & 57 Vict. c. 71  codifiedthe  law on the subject, and s. 1 of the Act which  embodiedthe rules of the common law runs as follows:I.-(I)	" A contract of sale of goods is a contract  wherebythe  seller transfers or agrees to transfer the property  ingoods  to  the buyer for a money consideration,	 called	 theprice.	 There	may be a contract of sale between  one	partowner and another.(2)A contract of sale may be absolute or conditional.(3)Where under a contract of sale the property in the  goodsis transferred from the seller to the buyer the contract  iscalled a sale; but where the transfer of the property in thegoods  is to take place at a future time or subject to	somecondition thereafter to be fulfilled the contract is  calledan agreement to sell.(4)An agreement to sell becomes a sale when the time elapsesor  the	 conditions  are  fulfilled  subject  to  which	 theproperty  in the goods is to be transferred." Coming to	 theIndian law on the subject, s. 77 of the Indian Contract Act,1872,  defined " sale " as " the exchange of property for  aprice involving the transfer of ownership of the thing	soldfrom the seller to the buyer ". It was suggested that  underthis  section  it was sufficient to constitute a  sale	thatthere  was a transfer of ownership in the thing for a  priceand that a bargain between the parties was not an  essentialelement.  But the scheme of the Indian Contract Act is	thatit  enacts in ss.  I to 75 provisions applicable in  generalto all contracts, and then deals separately with  particularkinds of contract such as sale, guarantee, bailment,  agencyand partnership, and the scheme necessarily posits that	 allthese transactions are based on agreements.  We then come tothe Indian Sale of Goods Act, 1930, which repealed Ch.	 VIIof the Indian Contract Act relating to sale of goods, and s.4  thereof is practically in the same terms as s. I  of	 theEnglish Act.  Thus, according to the law both of England andof India, in order to constitute a sale it is necessary398that  there should be an agreement between the	parties	 forthe  purpose of transferring title to goods which of  coursepresupposes capacity to contract, that it must be  supportedby  money  consideration,  and	that  as  a  result  of	 thetransaction  property  must  actually  pass  in	 the  goods.Unless all these elements are present, there can be no sale.Thus,  if  merely  title to the goods passes but  not  as  aresult	of  any	 contract between the  parties,	 express  orimplied, there is no sale.  So also if the consideration forthe transfer was not money but other valuable consideration,it  may then be exchange or barter but not a sale.   And  ifunder  the  contract  of sale, title to the  goods  has	 notpassed,	 then  there  is  an agreement to  sell	 and  not  acompleted sale.Now,  it  is the contention of the respondents that  as	 theexpression  "  sale  of goods " was at	the  time  when	 theGovernment  of	India  Act  was enacted,  a  term  of  well-recognised legal import in the general law relating to	saleof  goods and in the legislative practice relating  to	thattopic  both in England and in India, it must be	 interpretedin Entry 48 as having the same meaning as in the Indian Saleof Goods Act, 1930, and a number of authorities were  reliedon in support of this contention.  In United States v.	WongKim Ark (1), it was observed:"  In this, as in other respects, it must be interpreted  inthe  light of the common law, the principles and history  ofwhich	were  familiarly  known	 to  the  framers   of	 theConstitution.  The language of the Constitution, as has beenwell said, could not be understood without reference to	 thecommon law."In South Carolina v. United States (2), Brewer J. observed:"To  determine the extent of the grants of power,  we  must,therefore,  place ourselves in the position of the  men	 whoframed	and adopted the Constitution, and inquire what	theymust  have understood to be the meaning and scope  of  thosegrants.	 "A more recent pronouncement is that of Taft C. J. who said:(1)  (1898) 169 U. S. 649, 654 ; 42 L. Ed. 890, 893.(2)  (1905) 199 U-S. 437; 50 L. Ed. 262, 265.399"  The	language of the Constitution cannot  be	 interpretedsafely except by reference to the common law and to  Britishinstitutions as they were when the instrument was framed andadopted.   The statesmen and lawyers of the Convention,	 whosubmitted it to the, ratification of the Conventions of	 thethirteen states, were born and brought up in the  atmosphereof the common law, and thought and spoke in its	 vocabulary"Ex-parte Grossman (1).In  answer to the above line of authorities,  the  appellantrelies on the following observations in Continental IllinoisNational  Bank and Trust Company of Chicago v. Chicago	RockIsland & Pacific Railway Company (1):"  Whether a clause in the Constitution is to be  restrictedby  the	 rules of the English law as they existed  when	 theConstitution  was  adopted  depends upon the  terms  or	 thenature	of  the particular clause in  question.	  Certainly,these  rules have no such restrictive effect in	 respect  ofany  constitutional grant of governmental power	 (Waring  v.Clarke	(3) ), though they do, at least in  some  instances,operate	  restrictively	 in  respect  of  clauses   of	 theConstitution  which guarantee and safeguard the	 fundamentalrights and liberties of the individual, the best examples ofwhich, perhaps, are the Sixth and Seventh Amendments,  whichguarantee the right of trial by jury."It  should,  however, be stated that the law  is  stated  inWeaver on Constitutional Law, 1946 Edn., p. 77 and  Crawfordon  Statutory Construction, p. 258 in the same terms  as  inSouth Corolina v. United States (4).  But it is	 unnecessaryto  examine  minutely  the precise scope  of  this  rule  ofinterpretation	in American law, as the law on	the  subjecthas  been  stated clearly and authoritatively by  the  PrivyCouncil	 in  construing the scope of the provisions  of	 theBritish North America Act, 1867.  In L'Union St. Jacques  DeMontreal v. Be Lisle (5), the question was whether a law  ofQuebec(1)  (1925) 267 U.S. 87; 69 L. Ed. 527, 530.(2)  (1935) 294 U.S. 648, 669 ; 79 L. Ed.  1110, 1124.(3)  (1847) 5 How. 441 ; 12 L. Ed. 226.(4)  (1905) 199 U.S. 437 ; 5o L. Ed. 262, 265.(5)  (1874) L.R. 6 P.C. 31, 36.400providing  for relief to a society in a state  of  financialembarrassment  was  one	 with respect to  "  bankruptcy	 andinsolvency ". In deciding that it should be determined on  aconsideration  of what was understood as included  in  thosewords in their legal sense, Lord Selborne observed :"  The words describe in their known legal sense  provisionsmade by law for the administration of the estates of personswho may become bankrupt or insolvent, according to rules anddefinitions  prescribed	 by  law, including  of	 course	 theconditions  in	which  that  law  is  to  be  brought	intooperation,  the	 manner in which it is to  be  brought	intooperation, and the effect of its operation."On  this test, it was held that the law in question was	 notone  relating  to bankruptcy.  In Royal Bank  of  Canada  v.Larue  (1), the question was whether s. 11, sub-s. (10),  ofthe Bankruptcy Act of Canada under which a charge created bya  judgment on the real assets of a debtor was postponed  toan  assignment made by the debtor of his properties for	 thebenefit	 of his creditors was intra vires the powers of	 theDominion  Legislature,	as being one in respect of  "  bank-ruptcy	and insolvency " within s. 91, sub-cl. (21), of	 theBritish North America Act.  Viscount Cave L. C. applying thetest  laid  down in L'Union St. Jacques De  Montreal  v.  BeLisle  (2),  held  that the impugned provision	was  one  inrespect of bankruptcy.In  The Labour Relations Board of Saskatchewan v. John	EastIron  Works Ltd. (3), the question arose under s. 96 of	 theBritish	 North America Act, 1867, under which the  Governor-General	 of the Dominion had power to appoint judges of	 thesuperior  district  and	 county	 courts.   The	Province  ofSaskatchewan enacted the Trade Union Act, 1944,	 authorisingthe  Governor  of  the Province	 to  constitute	 the  LabourRelations  Board for the determination of  labour  disputes.The  question  was  whether this provision  was	 invalid  ascontravening  s.  96 of the British North America  Act.	  Inholding that it was not, Lord(1) [1928] A.C. 187.	   (2) (1874) I,.R. 6 P.C. 3I, 36.(3)[1949] A.C. 134.401Simonds	 observed that the courts contemplated by s.  96  ofthe  Act  were those which were generally understood  to  becourts	at the time when the Constitution Act  was  enacted,that  labour courts were then unknown, and that,  therefore,the  reference to judges, and courts in s. 96 could  not  beinterpreted as comprehending a tribunal of the character  ofthe Labour Relations Board.  In Halsbury's Laws 'of England,Vol. 11, para. 157, p. 93, the position is thus summed up:" The existing state of English law in 1867 is relevant	 forconsideration  in determining the meaning of the terms	usedin  conferring power and the extent of that power, e. g.  asto customs legislation."Turning next to the question as to the weight to be attachedto  legislative	 practice  in  interpreting  words  in	 theConstitution, in Croft v. Dunphy (1), the question was as tothe  validity  of certain provisions in a  Canadian  statuteproviding  for	the  search of	vessels	 beyond	 territorialwaters.	 These provisions occurred in a customs statute, andwere  intended	to  prevent evasion  of	 its  provisions  bysmugglers.   In affirming the validity of these	 provisions,Lord Macmillan referred to the legislative practice relatingto customs, and observed:"  When	 a power is conferred to legislate on  a  particulartopic  it  is  important, in determining the  scope  of	 thepower,	to  have  regard to what is  ordinarily	 treated  asembraced  within  that	topic in  legislative  practice	 andparticularly in the legislative practice of the State  whichhas conferred the power."In Wallace Brothers and Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of  Income-tax,  Bombay  City and Bombay Suburban	District  (2),	LordUthwatt observed:"  Where Parliament has conferred a power to legislate on  aparticular   topic  it	is  permissible	 and  important	  indetermining  the  scope	 and meaning of the  power  to	haveregard to what is ordinarily treated as embraced within thattopic  in  the legislative practice of the  United  Kingdom.The point of the(1) [1933] A.C. 156, 165.   (2) (1948) L.R. 75 I.A. 86, 99.51402reference  is emphatically not to seek a pattern to which  adue  exercise of the power must conform.  The object  is  toascertain  the general conception involved in the  words  inthe enabling Act."In  In	re The Central Provinces and Berar Act No. XI  V  of1938 (1), in considering whether a tax on the sale of  goodswas a duty of excise within the meaning of Entry 45, in ListI of Sch.  VII, Sir Maurice Gwyer C.	J.  observed  at  p.53:"  Lastly,  I  am entitled to look at the  manner  in  whichIndian	legislation preceding the Constitution Act had	beenaccustomed  to provide for the collection of excise  duties;for  Parliament must surely be presumed to have	 had  Indianlegislative  practice  in  mind	 and,  unless  the   contextotherwise   clearly  requires,	not  to	 have  conferred   alegislative power intended to be interpreted in a sense	 notunderstood by those to whom the Act was to apply."In The State of Bombay v. F. N. Balsara (2), in	 determiningthe meaning of the word " intoxicating liquor " in Entry  31of  List  11 of Sch.  VII to the Government  of	 India	Act,1935,  this Court referred to the legislative practice	withreference  to that topic in India as throwing light  on	 thetrue scope of the entry. (Vide pp. 704 to 706).On  the	 basis	of the above  authorities,  the	 respondentscontend	 that  the  true interpretation to  be	put  on	 theexpression " sale of goods " in Entry 48 is what it means inthe  Indian Sale of Goods Act, 1930, and what it has  alwaysmeant  in the general law relating to sale of goods.  It  iscontended   by	 the  appellants   quite   rightly-that	  ininterpreting  the  words of a Constitution  the	 legislativepractice  relative  thereto is not conclusive.	 But  it  iscertainly  valuable  and might	prove  determinative  unlessthere are good reasons for disregarding it, and in The SalesTax  Officer, Pilibhit v. Messrs.  Budh Prakash Jai  Prakash(3), it was relied on for ascertaining the meaning and	truescope  of the very words which are now under  consideration.There,	in deciding that an agreement to sell is not a	salewithin Entry 48, this Court referred to the provisions(1) [1939] F.C.R. 18, 37.     (2) [1951] S.C.R. 682.(3) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 243.403of the English Sale of Goods Act, 1893, the Indian  ContractAct,  1872,  and  the Indian Sale of Goods  Act,  1930,	 forconstruing the word "sale" in that Entry and observed:"Thus, there having existed at the time of the( enactment ofthe Government of India Act; 1935, a well-defined and  well-established  distinction between a sale and an agreement  tosell, it would be proper to interpret the expression "	saleof goods " in entry 48 in the sense in which it was used  inlegislation  both in England and India and to hold  that  itauthorises  the	 imposition of a tax only when	there  is  acompleted sale involving transfer of title."This  decision,	 though	 not decisive of  the  present	con-troversy,  goes	 far  to  support  the	contention  of	 therespondents  that  the words " sale of goods " in  Entry  48must  be  interpreted in the sense which they  bear  in	 theIndian Sale of Goods Act, 1930.The  appellant	and  the  intervening  States  resist	thisconclusion on the following grounds:(1)  The provisions of the Government of India Act, read  asa  whole, show that the words " sale of goods " in Entry  48are  not to be interpreted in the sense which they  have  inthe Indian Sale of Goods Act, 1930;(2)  The legislative practice relating to the topic of salestax  does not support the narrow construction sought  to  beput on the language of Entry 48;(3)  The  expression  " sale of goods " has in law  a  widermeaning than what it bears in the Indian Sale of Goods	Act,1930,  and  that is the meaning which must be put on  it  inEntry 48; and(4)  the language of Entry 48 should be construed  liberallyso  as	to  take in new concepts of  sales  tax.   We  shallexamine these contentions seriatim.(1)  As	 regards the first contention, the argument is	thatin  the	 Government  of India Act,  1935,  there  are  otherprovisions which give a clear indication that the expression"  sale of goods " in Entry 48 is not to be  interpreted  inthe  sense which it bears in the Indian Sale of	 Goods	Act,1930.  That is an argument open404to  the appellant, because rules of interpretation are	onlyaids  for ascertaining the true legislative intent and	mustyield  to the context, where the contrary  clearly  appears.Now, what are the indications contra ? Section 311(2) of theGovernment  of India Act defines " agricultural income "  asmeaning " agricultural income as defined for the purposes ofthe  enactments relating to Indian income-tax ". It is	saidthat  if the words " sale of goods " in Entry 48 were  meantto  have the same meaning as those words in the Indian	Saleof Goods Act, that would have been expressly mentioned as inthe  case  of definition of agricultural  income,  and	thattherefore  that	 is not the meaning which should be  put  onthem in that Entry.In  our opinion, that is not the inference to be drawn	fromthe  absence of words linking up the meaning of the  word  "sale  " with what it might bear in the Indian Sale of  GoodsAct.  We think that the true legislative intent is that	 theexpression  "  sale of goods " in Entry 48 should  bear	 theprecise and definite meaning it has in law, and that meaningshould	not  be left to fluctuate with the definition  of  "sale  " in laws relating to sale of goods which might be  inforce for the time being.  It was then said that in some  ofthe  Entries, for example, Entries 31 and 49, List  11,	 theword it sale " was used in a wider sense than in the  IndianSale of Goods Act, 1930.  Entry 31 is " Intoxicating liquorsand  narcotic  drugs,  that  is	 to  say,  the	 production,manufacture,  possession,  transport, purchase and  sale  ofintoxicating  liquors, opium and other narcotic	 drugs.	  ".The  argument  is  that	 "  sale "  in	the  Entry  must  beinterpreted  as including barter, as the policy of  the	 lawcannot be to prohibit transfers of liquor only when there ismoney consideration therefor. But this argument proceeds  ona misapprehension of the principles on which the Entries aredrafted.  The scheme of the drafting is that there is in thebeginning of the Entry words of general import, and they arefollowed  by  words having reference to	 particular  aspectsthereof.   The operation of the general words,	however,  isnot cut down by reason of the fact that there are  sub-headsdealing with specific aspects.	In405Manikkasundara	v.  R.	S.  Nayudu(1)  occur  the  followingobservations pertinent to the present question :" The subsequent words and phrases are not intended to limitthe  ambit of the opening general term or phrase but  ratherto  illustrate	the  scope and objects	of  the	 legislationenvisaged as comprised in the opening term or phrase."A  law	therefore prohibiting any  dealing  in	intoxicatingliquor,	 whether by way of sale or barter or gift,  will  beintra  vires  the  powers conferred  by	 the  opening  wordswithout resort to the words " sale and purchase ". Entry  49in  List II. is " Cesses on the entry of goods into a  localarea  for consumption, use or sale therein ". It  is  arguedthat  the word " sale " here cannot be limited to  transfersfor money or for even consideration.  The answer to this  isthat the words " for consumption, use or sale therein "	 area  composite  expression meaning octroi duties, and  have  aprecise	 legal connotation, and the use of the word  "	saletherein " can throw no light on the meaning of that word  inEntry  48.   We are of opinion that the	 provisions  in	 theGovernment  of India Act, 1935, relied on for the  appellantare too inconclusive to support the inference that " sale  "in  Entry  48 was intended to be used in a  sense  differentfrom that in the Indian Sale of Goods Act.(2)  It is next urged that, for determining the true meaningof the expression " Taxes on the sale of goods " in Entry 48it  would not be very material, to refer to the	 legislativepractice  relating to the law in respect of sale  of  goods.It  is argued that " sale of goods " and " taxes on sale  ofgoods " are distinct matters, each having its own incidents,that  the scope and object of legislation in respect of	 thetwo  topics are different, that while the purpose of  a	 lawrelating to sale of goods is to define the rights of partiesto  a  contract, that of a law relating to tax oil  sale  ofgoods  is to bring money into the coffers of the State,	 andthat,  accordingly, legislative practice with  reference  toeither topic cannot be of much assistance with reference  tothe other.  Now, it is trite that the object and(1)  [1946] F.C.R. 67, 84.406scope  of the two laws are different, and if there  was	 anydifference  in	the legislative practice with  reference  tothese  two topics, we should, in deciding the question	thatis now before us, refer more appropriately to that  relatingto  sales tax legislation rather than that relating to	saleof goods.  But there was, at the time when the Government ofIndia  Act was enacted, no law relating to sales tax  eitherin  England  or	 in India.  The first sales tax	 law  to  beenacted in India is the Madras General Sales Tax Act,  1939,and that was in exercise of the power conferred by Entry 48.In England, a purchase tax was introduced for the first timeonly  by  the  Finance Act No. 2  of  1940.   The  position,therefore,   is	 that  Entry  48  introduces  a	  topic	  oflegislation  with respect to which there was no	 legislativepractice.In  the	 absence of legislative practice with  reference  tosales  tax  in this country or in England, counsel  for	 theappellant and the States sought support for their contentionin  the	 legislative  practice	of  Australia  and   Americarelating to that topic.	 In 1930, the Commonwealth Sales TaxAct was enacted in Australia imposing a tax on retail sales.A   question  ARose,  Whether  a  contractor  who   suppliedmaterials in execution of a works contract could be taxed ason a sale of the materials.  In Sydney Hydraulic and GeneralEngineering Co. v. Blackwood & Son (1), the Supreme Court ofNew South Wales held that the agreement between the  partieswas  one to do certain work and to supply certain  materialsand  not  an agreement for sale or delivery  of	 the  goods.Vide Irving's Commonwealth Sales Tax Law and Practice,	1950Edn.,  p.  77.	 In 1932,  the	Legislature  intervened	 andenacted in the Statute of 1930, a new provision, s. 3(4), inthe following terms:"  For the purpose of this Act, a person shall be deemed  tohave sold goods if, in the performance of any contract	(notbeing  a contract for the sale of goods) under which he	 hasreceived, or is entitled to receive, valuable consideration,he supplies goods the property in which (whether as goods orin some other form) passes, under the terms of the contract,to some other person."(1)  8 N.S.W.S.R.407After  this, the question arose in M. R.  Hornibrook  (Pty.)Ltd.  v.  Federal  Commissioner	 of  Taxation(1)  whether  acontractor   who   fabricated  piles  and   used   them	  inconstructing  a	 bridge was liable to pay sales tax  on	 thevalue of the piles.  The majority of the( Court held that hewas.   Latham  C.  J. put his decision on  the	ground	thatthough	there  was, in fact, no sale of the  piles,  in	 lawthere  was  one by reason of s. 3(4) of the Act.   Now,	 thejudgment  of the learned Chief Justice is really adverse  tothe appellant in that it decides that under the general	 lawand  apart from s. 3(4) there was no sale of  the  materialsand  that it was only by reason of the deeming provision  ofs.  3(4)  that it became a taxable sale.  The  point  to  benoted is that under the Australian Constitution the power tolegislate  on  the  items mentioned in s.  51  of  the	Con-stitution  Act	is vested Exclusively  in  the	CommonwealthParliament.  Item (ii) in s. 51 is " Taxation; but so as notto discriminate between States or parts of States ". Subjectto  this condition, the power of Parliament is	plenary	 andabsolute, and in exercise of such a power it could impose  atax  on the value of the materials used by a  contractor  inhis  works  contracts;	and it could  do  that	whether	 thetransaction  amounts  in fact to a sale or not.	  It  is  nodoubt brought under the Sales Tax Act, it being deemed to bea  sale;  but that is only as a matter of  convenience.	  Infact, two of the learned Judges in M.' R. Hornibrook  (Pty.)Ltd.  V. Federal Commissioner of Taxation (1)  rested  theirdecision  on  the ground that the use of  materials  in	 theconstruction  was itself taxable under the Act.	  But  underthe  Government of India Act, the Provincial Legislature  iscompetent to enact laws in respect of the matters enumeratedin  Lists II and III, and though the entries therein are  tobe  construed liberally and in their widest  amplitude,	 thelaw  must,  nevertheless,  be  one  with  respect  to  thosematters.  A power to enact a law with respect to tax on saleof  goods  under Entry 48 must, to be intra  vires,  be	 onerelating  in  fact to sale of goods,  and  accordingly,	 theProvincial Legislature cannot, in the purported exercise  ofits power(1)  (1939) 62 C.L.R. 272.408to tax sales, tax transactions which are not sales by merelyenacting that they shall be deemed to be sales.The  position in the American law appears to be the same  asin  Australia.	In Blome Co. v. Ames (1), the Supreme  Courtof Illinois held that a sales tax was leviable on the value,of  materials used by a contractor in the construction of  abuilding  or  a fixture treating the transaction as  one  ofsale of those materials.  But this decision Was overruled bya later decision of the same Court in Herlihy  Mid-ContinentCo.  v.	 Nudelman  wherein it was held	that  there  was  notransfer of title to the materials used in construction workas  goods, and that the provisions of the Sales Tax Act	 hadaccordingly no application.  This is in accordance with	 theGenerally  accepted  notion  of sale  of  goods.   This,  ofcourse,	 does not preclude the States in exercise  of  theirsovereign  power from imposing tax on construction works  inrespect	 of materials used therein.  Thus, position is	thatin 1935 there was no legislative practice relating to  salestax  either  in England or India, and that  in	America	 andAustralia,  tax on the supply of materials  in	constructionworks was imposed but that was in exercise of the  sovereignpowers of the Legislature by treating the supply as a  sale.But  apart, from such legislation, the expression  "sale  ofgoods  " has been construed as having the meaning  which  ithas in the common law of England relating to sale of  goods,and it has been held that in that sense the use of materialsin  construction works is not a sale.  This rather  supportsthe conclusion that sale " in Entry, 48 must be construed ashaving	the same meaning which it has in the Indian Sale  ofGoods Act, 1930.(3)  It is next contended by Mr. Sikri that though the	word"  sale " has a definite sense in the Indian Sale  of  GoodsAct,  1930,  it	 has a wider sense in law  other  than	thatrelating  to sale of goods, and that, on the principle	thatwords  conferring legislative powers should be construed  intheir  broadest amplitude, it would be proper  to  attributethat sense to it in Entry(1) (1937) 111 A.L.R. 940.(2) (1937) 115 A.L.R. 485.40948.It  is  argued that in its wider sense the  expression  "sale  of  goods " means all transactions  resulting  in	 thetransfer of title to goods from one person to another,	thata, bargain between the parties was not an essential  elementthereof, and that even involuntary sales, would fall  withinits  connotation.  He relied in support of this position  onvarious	 dicta	in  Ex Parte Drake In  re  Ware	 (1),  GreatWestern Railway Co. v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue	(2),The  Commissioners of Inland Revenue v. Newcastle  BreweriesLtd. (3), Kirkness v. John Hudson & Co. Ld. (4) and Nalukuyav.  Director of Lands, Native Land Trust Board of Fiji	(5).In  Ex Parte Drake In re Ware (1), the question was  whetheran  unsatisfied	 decree	 passed	 in  an	 action	 on  detinueextinguished  the  title of the decree-holder to  the  thingdetained.   In	answering it in the negative, Jessel  M.  R.observed:" The judgments in Brinsmead v. Harrison and especially thatof Mr. Justice Willes, shew that the theory of the  judgmentin an action of detinue is that it is a kind of	 involuntarysale of the Plaintiff's goods to the Defendant."He went on to state that such sale took place when the valueof the goods is paid to the owner.  In Great Western RailwayCo.  v.	 Commissioners	of Inland Revenue  (2),	 an  Act  ofParliament had provided for the dissolution of two companiesunder  a scheme of amalgamation with a third  company  underwhich  the  shareholders were to be given  in  exchange	 fortheir shares in the dissolved companies, in the case of	 onecompany,  stock	 in the third company in  certain  specifiedproportions,  and in the other, discharge of  debentures  onshares	already	 held  by them in the  third  company.	 Thequestion was whether a copy of the Act had to be stamped  advalorem as on conveyance on sale under the first schedule tothe Stamp Act, 1891.  The contention of the company was thatthere was no sale by the shareholders of their shares to it,and(1) (1877) 5 Ch. D. 866.(2) (1894) 1 Q.B. 507, 512, 515.(3) (1927) 12 Tax Cas. 927.(4) [1955] A.C. 696.(5) [1957] A.C. 325.(6) (1872) L.R. 7 C.P. 347.     52410that   the   provision	in  question  had   accordingly	  noapplication.  In rejecting this contention, Esher M. R.observed:"  Turning  to	the  Stamp  Act, the  words  used  are	'  aconveyance on sale'.  Does that expression mean a conveyancewhere  there  is a definite contract of	 purchase  and	salepreceding it ? Is that the way to construe the Stamp Act, ordoes  it  mean a conveyance the same as if it  were  upon  acontract of purchase and sale ? The latter seems to me to bethe meaning of the phrase as there used.Kay L. J. said:" And we must remember that the Stamp Act has nothing to  dowith contracts or negotiations; it stamps a conveyance	upona  sale,  which is the instrument by which the	property  istransferred upon a sale.  "This  is a decision on the interpretation of the  particularprovision  of  the  Stamp  Act,	 and  is  not  relevant	  indetermining the meaning of sale under the general law.	And,if  anything,  the observations above quoted  emphasise	 thecontrast  between the concept of sale under the general	 lawand  that which is embodied in the particular  provision  ofthe Stamp Act.In   The  Commissioners	 of  Inland  Revenue  v.   NewcastleBreweries  Ltd.(1),  the  point	 for  decision	was  whetherpayments  made	by the Admiralty to the	 respondent  companywhich  was  carrying on business as brewers, on	 account  ofstocks	of  rum	 taken over by	it  compulsorily  under	 theDefence	 of Realm Regulations were liable to be assessed  astrade  receipts to excess profits duty.	 The  contention  ofthe  company was that the acquisition by the  Admiralty	 wasnot  a sale, that the payments made were not price of  goodssold but compensation for interference with the carrying  onof  business by it, and that accordingly the  amounts  couldnot be held to have been received in the course of trade  orbusiness.  In rejecting this contention, Viscount Cave L. C.observed:"If the raw rum had been voluntarily sold to other  traders,the price must clearly have come into the computation of theAppellant's profits, and the(1)  (1927) 12 Tax Cas. 927.411circumstance  that  the sale was compulsory and was  to	 theCrown makes no difference in principle.	 "In  Kirkness v. John Hudson & Co. Ltd. (1), the	 facts	werethat railway wagons belonging to the respondent company weretaken  over  by	 the Transport	Commission  compulsorily  inexercise  of the powers conferred by s. 29 of the  TransportAct, 1947, and compensation was paid therefor.	The questionwas  whether  this amount was liable to	 income-tax  on	 thefooting	 of  sale  of  the  wagons  by	the  company.	 Thecontention  on	behalf of the Revenue  was  that  compulsoryacquisition being treated as sale under the English law, thetaking	over  of  the wagons  and  payment  of	compensationtherefor  must	also  be regarded as  sale  for	 purpose  ofincome-tax.   Lord Morton in agreeing with  this  contentionobserved:"........  the question whether it is a correct use  of	 theEnglish language to describe as a 'sale' a transaction	fromwhich the element of mutual assent is missing is no doubt aninteresting one.  I think, however, that this question losesits  importance	 for  the purpose of the  decision  of	thisappeal	when  it  is realized that for the  last  100  yearstransactions by which the property of A has been transferredto  B, Oil payment of compensation to the owner but  withoutthe consent of the owner, have been referred to many  times,in Acts of Parliament, in opinions delivered in this  House,in  judgments of the Court of Appeal and the High  Court  ofJustice,  and  in  textbooks  as a  sale  '-generally  as  acompulsory sale"  The	case of Newcastle Breweries Ld.	 v.  Inland  RevenueCommissioners  (2 ), referred to later, affords	 a  strikingmodern instance of the use of the word I sale' as applied tocompulsory taking of goods '................................"  In  these  circumstances, whether this use  of  the	word'sale'	was  originally	 correct or  incorrect,	 I  find  itimpossible  to	say  that the only  construction  which	 canfairly be given to the word ' sold ' in section 17(1) (a) ofthe Income Tax Act, 1945, is to limit it to a transaction inwhich the element of mutual assent is present.	"(1)  [1955] A.C. 696.(2) (1927) 96 L.J.K. B. 735.412But  the  majority  of the House came to  a  different	con-clusion, and held that the element of bargain was  essentialto constitute a sale, and to describe compulsory taking overof property as a sale was a misuse of that word.In Nalukuya v. Director of Lands, Native Land Trust Board ofFiji, Intervener (1), it was held by the Privy Council	thatcompensation money payable on the compulsory acquisition  ofland was covered by the words " the purchase money  receivedin  respect of a sale or other disposition of native land  "in s. 15 of the Native Land Trust Ordinance, c. 86 of  1945,Fiji.	The decision, however, proceeded on  the  particularterms  of the statute, and does not affect the	decision  inKirkness v. John Hudson & Co. Ltd. (2) that mutual assent isan element of a transaction of sale.It  should  be	noted  that the main  ground  on  which	 thedecision of Lord Morton rests is that compulsory acquisitionof  property had been described in the legislative  practiceof  Great  Britain  as compulsory  sales.   The	 legislativepractice of this country, however, has been different.	 TheLand Acquisition Act, 1894, refers to the compulsory  takingover  of immovable property as acquisition.  In List  11  ofthe  Government	 of India Act, this topic  is  described  inEntry  9  as  " compulsory acquisition	of  land".   In	 theConstitution,  Entry  42 in List III is	 "  acquisition	 andrequisition of property ". The ratio on which the opinion ofLord  Morton  is based has no place in the  construction  ofEntry  48,  and the law as laid down by the majority  is  inconsonance with the view taken by this Court that bargain isan  essential  element	in  a  transaction  of	sale.	VidePoppatlal  Shah v. The State of Madras (3) and The State  ofBombay	v.  The	 United	 Motors (India)	 Ltd.  (4).   It  isunnecessary  to discuss the other English cases cited  aboveat  any	 length, as the present question  did  not  directlyarise for decision therein, and the decision in Kirkness  v.John  Hudson  &	 Co. Ld. (2) must be held  to  conclude	 thematter.Another contention presented from the same point(1)  [1957] A.C- 325.(3)  [1953] S.C.R. 677, 683.(2)  [1955] A.C. 696.(4)  [1953] S.C.R. 1069, 1078.413of  view but more limited in its sweep is that urged by	 thelearned Solicitor-General of India, the Advocate General  ofMadras and the other counsel appearing for the States,	thateven  in the view that an agreement between the parties	 wasnecessary  to  constitute a sale, that	agreement  need	 notrelate to the goods as such, and that it would be sufficientif  there  is an agreement between the parties	and  in	 thecarrying out of that agreement there is transfer of title inmovables   belonging   to   one	 person	  to   another	 forconsideration.	 It  is argued that Entry 48  only  requiresthat  there  should be a sale, and that	 means	transfer  oftitle  in  the goods, and that to attract the  operation  ofthat Entry it is not necessary that there should also be  anagreement to sell those goods.	To hold that there should bean agreement to sell the goods as such is, it is  contended,to add to the Entry, words which are not there.We are unable to agree with this contention.  If the words "sale of goods " have to be interpreted in their legal sense,that  sense can only be what it has in the law	relating  tosale of goods.	The ratio of the rule of interpretation thatwords  of  legal  import occurring in a	 statute  should  beconstrued in their legal sense is that those words have,  inlaw,  acquired	a  definite and	 precise  sense,  and  that,accordingly, the legislature must be taken to have  intendedthat   they  should  be	 understood  in	 that	sense.	  Ininterpreting an expression used in a legal sense, therefore,we  have only to ascertain the precise connotation which  itpossesses  in  law.  It has been already stated	 that,	bothunder the common law and the statute law relating to sale ofgoods  in England and in India, to constitute a	 transactionof  sale there should be an agreement, express	or  implied,relating  to  goods to be completed by passing of  title  inthose goods.  It is of the essence of this concept that boththe  agreement	and  the  sale should  relate  to  the	samesubject-matter.	   Where  the  goods  delivered	 under	 thecontract are not the goods contracted for, the purchaser hasgot  a	right to reject them, or to accept  them  and  claimdamages	 for breach of warranty.  Under the law,  therefore,there  cannot  be  an  agreement relating  to  one  kind  ofproperty and414a  sale as regards another.  We are accordingly	 of  opinionthat on the true interpretation of the expression " sale  ofgoods  " there must be an agreement between the parties	 forthe  sale  of the very goods in	 which	eventually  propertypasses.	  In a building contract, the agreement between	 theparties	 is that the contractor should construct a  buildingaccording to the specifications contained in the  agreement,and  in consideration therefor receive payment	as  providedtherein, and as will presently be shown there is in such  anagreement  neither a contract to sell the materials used  inthe   construction,  nor  does	property  pass	therein	  asmovables.  It is therefore impossible to maintain that thereis  implicit in a building contract a sale of  materials  asunderstood in law.(4)  It	  was  finally	contended  that	 the  words   of   aConstitution   conferring   legislative	 power	 should	  beconstrued in such manner as to make it flexible and  elasticso  as	to enable that power to be exercised in	 respect  ofmatters	 which might be unknown at the time it	was  enactedbut  might  come into existence with the march of  time	 andprogress  in  science,	and  that  on  this  principle	 theexpression " sale of goods " in Entry 48 should include	 notonly  what  was	 understood  as sales at  the  time  of	 theGovernment  of India Act, 1935, but also whatever  might  beregarded  as  sale in the times to come.  The  decisions  inAttorney General v. Edison Telephone Company of London	(1),Toronto Corporation v. Bell Telephone Company of Canada (2),The Regulation and Control of Radio Communication in Canada,In  re (3) and.	 The King v. Brislan: Ex Parte Williams	 (4)were quoted as precedents for adopting such a  construction.In  Attorney General v. Edison Telephone Company  of  London(1), the question was whether the Edison Telephone  Company,London,	  had	infringed   the	  exclusive   privilege	  oftransmitting  telegrams	 granted to the	 Postmaster  Generalunder  an  Act of 1869 by installation of  telephones.	 Thedecision turned on the construction of the definition of theword " telegraph " in the Acts of(1)  (1880) L.R. 6 Q.B.D. 244.(2)  [1905] A.C. 52.(3)  [1932] A.C. 304.(4)  (1935) 54 C.L.R. 262.4151863  and  1869.   It was contended  for  the  Company	thattelephones  were  unknown at the time when those  Acts	werepassed and therefore could not fall within the definition of"telegraph".   The  Court negatived this contention  on	 theground	that the language of the definition was wide  enoughto include telephones. Toronto Corporation v. Bell TelephoneCompany	 of Canada (1) is a decision on s. 92(10)(a) of	 theBritish	 North America Act, 1867, under which  the  DominionParliament  had	 the exclusive competence to  pass  laws  inrespect	 of  "	lines of steam	or  other  ships,  railways,canals,	  telegraphs,  and  other  works  and	undertakingsconnecting  the	 province with any other or  others  of	 theprovinces  or extending beyond the limits of the  province".The  question  was whether a law incorporating	a  telephonecompany	 and conferring on it powers to enter  upon  streetsand  highways  vested in a municipal corporation  was  intravires the powers of the Dominion Parliament under the  aboveprovision,  and	 whether in consequence a  provision  in  anOntario	  Act  requiring  the  consent	of   the   municipalauthorities  for  the carrying out of those  operations	 wasultra  vires.	It was held by the Privy  Council  that	 theParliament of Canada was competent to enact the impugned lawunder  s. 92(10)(a) and that, therefore, it  prevailed	overthe  Provincial Act.  This decision, however, would seem  tohave   been  reached  on  the  words  "	 other	 works	 andundertakings " in the section.In  The,  Regulation and Control of Radio  Communication  inCanada, In re (2), the question was whether broadcasting wascovered	 by  the expression "telegraph and other  works	 andundertakings  "	 in s. 92(10)(a) of  the  Constitution	Act,1867.	The Privy Council answered it in the affirmative  onthe grounds, firstly, that broadcasting was an " undertakingconnecting  the province with other provinces and  extendingbeyond	the  limits of the province and, secondly,  that  itfell  within the description of telegraph ". In The King  v.Bristan:  Ex Parte Williams (3), the question was whether  alaw of the Commonwealth(1) [1905] A.C. 52.	    (2) [1932] A.C. 304.(3)  (1935) 54 C.L.R. 262.416Parliament  with respect to radio broadcasting was one	withrespect to " Postal, telegraphic, telephonic and other	likeservices  "  under s. 51(5) of the  Australian	CommonwealthAct, and it was answered in the affirmative.The  principle	of these decisions is that when,  after	 theenactment  of a legislation, new facts and situations  arisewhich  could  not  have	 been  in  its	contemplation,	 thestatutory  provisions could properly be applied to  them  ifthe words thereof are in a broad sense capable of containingthem.  In that situation, " it is not ", as observed by LordWright in James v. Commonwealth of Australia (1), " that themeaning of the words changes, but the changing circumstancesillustrate and illuminate the full import of that meaning ".The  question then would be not what the framers  understoodby those words, but whether those words are broad enough  toinclude	 the  new  facts.  Clearly, this  principle  has  noapplication  to	 the  present case.  Sales  tax	 was  not  asubject which came into vogue after the Government of  IndiaAct, 1935.  It was known to the framers of that statute	 andthey made express provision for it under Entry 48.  Then  itbecomes merely a question of interpreting the words, and  onthe principle, already stated, that words having known legalimport	should be construed in the sense which they  had  atthe time of the enactment, the expression " sale of goods  "must  be construed in the sense which it has in	 the  IndianSale of Goods Act.A  contention  was also urged on behalf of  the	 respondentsthat even assuming that the expression " sale of goods "  inEntry 48 could be construed as having the wider sense soughtto  be given to it by the appellant and that the  provisionsof  the	 Madras	 General Sales Tax Act	imposing  a  tax  onconstruction  contracts	 could be sustained as	within	thatentry in that sense, the impugned provisions would still  bebad  under  s. 107 of the Government of India Act,  and	 thedecision in D. Sarkar & Bros. v. Commercial Tax Officer	 (2)was  relied on in support of this contention.  Section	107,so far as is material, runs as follows:(1) [1936] A.C. 578, 614.(2) A.1.R. 1957 Cal. 283.417107-(1) " If any provision of a Provincial law is  repugnantto  any	 provision  of a Dominion  law	which  the  DominionLegislature is competent to enact or to any provision of  anexisting  law with respect to one of the matters  enumeratedin  the	 Concurrent Legislative List, then, subject  to	 theprovisions of this section, the Dominion law, whether passedbefore or after the Provincial law, or, as the case may	 be,the  existing  law,  shall prevail and	the  Provincial	 lawshall, to the extent of the repugnancy, be void.(2)  Where  a  Provincial  law with respect to	one  of	 thematters	 enumerated  in	 the  Concurrent  Legislative	Listcontains  any  provision repugnant to the provisions  of  anearlier Dominion law or an existing law with respect to thatmatter,	 then, if the Provincial law, having  been  reservedfor  the consideration of the Governor-General has  receivedthe assent of the Governor-General, the Provincial law shallin  that  Province prevail, but	 nevertheless  the  DominionLegislature  may at any time enact further legislation	withrespect to the same matter."Now, the argument is that the definition of " sale given  inthe  Madras General Sales Tax Act is in conflict  with	thatgiven  in the Indian Sale of Goods Act, 1930, that the	saleof  goods  is  a  matter falling  within  Entry	 10  of	 theConcurrent  List,  and that, in consequence, as	 the  MadrasGeneral	 Sales	Tax (Amendment) Act, 1947, under  which	 theimpugned pro-visions had been enacted, had not been reservedfor the assent of the Governor-General as provided in s. 107(2),  its  provisions are bad to the extent  that  they	 arerepugnant  to the definition of " sale " in the Indian	Saleof Goods Act, 1930.  The short answer to this contention  isthat the Madras General Sales Tax Act is a law relating	 notto  sale of goods, but to tax on sale of goods, and that  itis not one of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent	Listor over which the Dominion Legislature is competent to enacta  law, but is a matter within the exclusive  competence  ofthe  Province under Entry 48 in List II.  The only  questionthat can arise with reference to53418such  a	 law  is whether it is within the  purview  of	thatEntry.	If it is, no question of repugnancy under  s.  107can arise.  The decision in D. Sarkar & Bros. v.  CommercialTax Officer(1) on this point cannot beaccepted as sound.It now remains to deal with the contention pressed on us  bythe  States  that even if the supply of	 materials  under  abuilding  contract  cannot be regarded as a sale  under	 theIndian	Sale of Goods Act, that contract is  nevertheless  acomposite agreement under which the contractor undertakes tosupply	 materials,  contribute	 labour	 and   produce	 theconstruction, and that it is open to the State in  executionof  its	 tax  laws  to split  up  that	agreement  into	 itsconstituent  parts,  single out that which  relates  to	 thesupply of materials and to impose a tax thereon treating  itas  a sale.  It is said that this is a, power  ancillary  tothe  exercise  of the substantive power to  tax	 sales,	 andreliance  is  placed  on  the  observations  in	 The  UnitedProvince v. Atiqa Begum (2) and Navinchandra Mafatlal v. TheCommissioner of Income-tax, Bombay City (3) at p. 836.	 Therespondents  contend that even if the agreement between	 theparties	 could be split up in the manner suggested  for	 theappellant, the resultant will not be a sale in the sense  ofthe  Indian  Sale  of  Goods Act, as there  is	in  a  workscontract neither an agreement to sell materials as such, nordoes property in them pass as movables.The  nature and incidents of works contracts have  been	 thesubject	 of  consideration  in	numerous  decisions  of	 theEnglish courts, and there is a detailed consideration of thepoints	 now  under  discussion,  in  so  far  as   buildingcontracts,  are concerned, in Hudson on Building  Contracts,7th Ed., pp. 386-389 and as regards chattels, in Benjamin onSale,  8th Ed., pp.' 156-168 and 352-355.  It  is  thereforesufficient to refer to the more important of the cases citedbefore us. In Tripp v. Armitage (4), one Bennett, a builder,had entered into an agreement with certain trustees to builda hotel.  The agreement provided inter alia that(1)  A.I.R. 1957 Cal. 283.(3)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 829, 833, 836.(2) [1940] F.C.R. 110, 134.(4) (1839) 4 M & W. 687 ; 15o E.R. 1597.419the articles which were to be used for the structure had  tobe  approved by the trustees.  Subsequently, Bennett  becamebankrupt,  and	the  dispute was between  his  assignees  inbankruptcy,  and  the trustees as regards title	 to  certainwooden sash-frames which had been approved on behalf of	 thetrustees  but had not yet been fitted in the building.	 Thetrustees  claimed them on the ground that property  therein,had passed to them when once they had approved the same.  Innegativing this contention, Lord Abinger C. B. observed:"..  ............  this is not a contract for the  sale	 andpurchase  of goods as movable chattels; it is a contract  tomake  up  materials, and to fix them ; and  until  they	 arefixed, by the nature of the contract, the property will	 notpass."Parke B. observed:"............ but in this case, there is no contract at	 allwith  respect  to  these particular  chattels-it  is  merelyparcel	of  a larger contract.	The contract  is,  that	 thebankrupt  shall build a house; that he shall  make,  amongstother  things, window-frames for the house, and fix them  inthe house' subject to the approbation of a surveyor; and  itwas never intended by this contract, that the articles so tobe fixed should become the property of the defendants, untilthey were fixed to the freehold."In  Clark  v.  Bulmer  (1), the	 plaintiff  entered  into  acontract  with	the defendant " to build an  engine  of	 100horse  power  for the sum of E. 2,500, to be  completed	 andfixed by the middle or end of December ". Different parts ofthe  engine were constructed at the plaintiff's	 manufactoryand  sent  in parts to the defendant's colliery	 where	theywere fixed piecemeal and were made into an engine.  The suitwas  for the recovery of a sum of E. 3,000 as price for "  amain  engine  and  other goods sold  and  delivered  ".	 Thecontention  of the defendant was that there was no  contractof  sale, and that the action should have been one for	workand labour and material used in the course of that work	 andnot for price of goods(1)  (1843) 11 M & W. 243; 152 E- R. 793.420sold and delivered.  In upholding this contention, Parke  B.observed :"  The	engine was not contracted for to  be  delivered,  ordelivered,  as	an  engine,  in	 its  complete	state,	 andafterwards affixed to the freehold; there was no sale of it,as  an entire chattel, and delivery in that character ;	 andtherefore  it  could not be treated as an  engine  sold	 anddelivered.   Nor could the different parts of it which	wereused in the construction, and from time to time fixed to thefreehold,  and therefore became part of it, be deemed  goodssold  and delivered, for there was no contract for the	saleof  them as moveable goods; the contract was in effect	thatthe plaintiff was to select materials, make them into  partsof an engine, carry them to a particular place, and put themtogether, and fix part to the soil, and so convert them intoa  fixed engine on the land itself, so as to pump the  waterout of a mine."In Seath v. Moore(1), the facts were similar to those in   Trippv. Armitage (2).  A firm of engineers, A.    Campbell & Son,had entered into five agreements with the appellants, T.  B.Seath  and  Co., who were ship-builders to  supply  engines,boilers	 and machinery required for vessels to be  built  bythem.  Before the completion of the contracts, A. Campbell &Son  became  bankrupt, and the dispute was  as	regards	 thetitle  to  machinery and other articles which  were  in	 thepossession of the insolvents at the time of their bankruptcybut which had been made for the purpose of being fitted intothe  ships of the appellants.  It was held by the  House  ofLords approving Tripp v. Armitage(2) that there had been  nosale of the machinery and parts as such, and that  thereforethey vested in the assignee.  For the appellant, reliance isplaced	on the following observations of Lord Watson  at  p.380:The English decisions to which I have referred appear to  meto establish the principle that, where it appears to be	 theintention,  or in other words the agreement, of the  partiesto a contract for building a, ship, that a particular  stageof  its construction, the :vessel, so far as then  finished,shall be appropriated to(1)  (1886) 11 App.  Cas. 35o.(2)  (1839) 4 M & W. 687; 15o E.R. 1597.421the contract of sale, the property of the vessel as soon  asit  has	 reached that stage of completion will pass  to	 thepurchaser, and subsequent additions made to the chattel thusvested	in  the	 purchaser  will,  accessione,	become	 hisproperty.  "It is to be noted that even in this passage the title to theparts  is  held to pass not under any contract	but  on	 theprinciple  of  accretion.   The	 respondents  rely  on	 thefollowing  observations	 at p. 381 as  furnishing  the	trueground of the decision"  There  is  another principle which appears to  me  to  bededucible from these authorities and to be in itself  sound,and  that  is, that materials provided by  the	builder	 andportions   of  the  fabric,  whether  wholly  or   partiallyfinished,  although intended to be used in the execution  ofthe  contract,	cannot be regarded as  appropriated  to	 thecontract, or as ' sold', unless they have been affixed to orin a reasonable sense made part of the corpus.	That appearsto me to have been matter of direct decision by the Court ofExchequer  Chamber in Wood v. Bell(1).	In Woods v.  Russell(2)  the  property of a rudder and some	 cordage  which	 thebuilder	 had bought for the ship was held to have passed  inproperty to the purchaser as an accessory of the vessel; butthat  decision was questioned by Lord Chief Justice  Jervis,delivering the judgment of the Court in Wood v. Bell(1), whostated	the real question to be 'what is the ship, not	whatis  meant for the ship', and that only the things  can	passwith the ship I which have been fitted to the ship and	haveonce  formed  part of her, although afterwards	removed	 forconvenience I assent to that rule, which appears to me to bein accordance with the decision of the Court of Exchequer inTripp v Armitage (3)". In  Reid v. Macbeth & Gray (4), the facts were that a	firmof  ship-builders  who	had agreed to build  a	ship  becamebankrupt.  At the date of the bankruptcy, there was lying atrailway stations a quantity of iron 'and steel plates  whichwere intended to be fixed in the(1)  (1856)  6 E. & B. 355; 119 E.R. 669.  (4)	[1904]	A.C.223.(2)  (1822) 5 B. & Al. 942 ; 106 E. R. 14 36.(3)  (1839) 4 M & W. 687; 150 E.R. I597.422ship.	The dispute was between the assignee  in  bankruptcyand  the shipowners as to the title to these  articles.	  Itwas held by the House of Lords following Seath v. Moore	 (1)and in particular the observations of Lord Watson at p.	 381that  the  contract was one for the purchase of	 a  completeship, and that under that contract no title to the  articlesin  question  passed  to  the  shipowners.   The   followingobservations  of Lord Davey are particularly appropriate  tothe present question :" There is only one contract--a contract for the purchase ofthe ship.  There is no contract for the sale or purchase  ofthese  materials  separatism  ; and unless you	can  find  acontract  for the sale of these chattels within the  meaningof the Sale of Goods Act, it appears to me that the sectionsof that Act have no application whatever to the case."If  in	a works contract there is no sale  of  materials  asdefined	 in the Sale of Goods Act, and if an action  is	 notmaintainable for the value of those materials as for  price,of   goods  sold  and  delivered,  as  held  in	 the   aboveauthorities,  then  even a disintegration  of  the  buildingcontract  cannot yield any sale such as can be	taxed  underEntry 48.The  decision in Love v. Norman Wright (Builders)  Ld.	(2),cited by the appellant does not really militate against thisconclusion.  There, the defendants to the action had  agreedwith the Secretary of State to supply blackout curtains	 andcurtain rails, and fix them in a number of police  stations.In  their turn, the defendants had entered into	 a  contractwith the plaintiffs that they should prepare those  curtainsand rails and erect them.  The question was whether the sub-contract was one for sale of goods or for work and services.In deciding that it was the former, Goddard L. J. observed :"  If  one orders another to make and fix curtains   at	 hishouse the contract is one of sale though work and labour areinvolved  in the making and fixing, nor does it matter	thatultimately the property was to pass to the War Office, underthe head contract.  As(1) (1886) 11 App.  Cas. 350.(2) [1944] 1 K.B. 484, 487.423between	 the plaintiff and the defendants the former  passedthe property in the goods to the defendants who passed it onto the War Office.  "It  will be seen that in this case there was no question  ofan agreement to supply materials as parcel of a contract  todeliver	 a  chattel;  the  goods to  be	 supplied  were	 thecurtains  and  rails which were the  subject-matter  of	 thecontract itself.  Nor was there any question of title to thegoods passing as an accretion under the general law, becausethe  buildings where they had to be erected belonged not  tothe  defendants	 but  to the Government,  and  therefore  asbetween	 the parties to the contract, title could pass	onlyunder their contract.The  contention that a building contract contains within  itall  the elements constituting a sale of' the materials	 wassought	to  be established by reference to the form  of	 theaction, when the claim is in quantum meruit.  It was  arguedthat if a contractor is prevented by the other party to	 thecontract  from	completing  the	 construction  he  has,	  asobserved by Lord Blackburn in Appleby v. Myres (1), a  claimagainst	 that party, that the form of action in such a	caseis  for	 work done and materials supplied, as  appears	fromBullen	& Leake's Precedents of Pleadings, 10th Ed., at	 pp.285-286,  and that showed that the concept of sale of  goodswas  latent  in	 a building contract.  The  answer  to	thiscontention  is that a claim for quantum, meruit is  a  claimfor  damages for breach of contract, and that the  value  ofthe  materials	is a factor relevant only  as  furnishing  abasis for assessing the amount of compensation.	 That is  tosay, the claim is not for price of goods sold and  deliveredbut for damages.  That is also the position under s. 65	 of'the Indian Contract Act.Another difficulty in the way of accepting the contention ofthe appellant as to splitting up a building contract is thatthe property in materials used therein does not pass to	 theother  party to the contract as movable property.  It  wouldso pass if that was the agreement between the parties.	 Butif there was no(1)  (1867) L.R. 2 C.P. 651.424such  agreement	 and the contract was only  to	construct  abuilding, then the materials used therein would be come	 theproperty  of  the other party to the contract  only  on	 thetheory	of  accretion.	 The  position	is  thus  stated  byBlackburn J. at pp. 659-660 in Appleby v. Myres (1):"  It  is quite true that materials worked by one  into	 theproperty  of another become part of that property.  This  isequally	 true,	whether	 it be fixed  or  movable  property.Bricks	built into a wall become part of the  house;  threadstitched  into a coat which is under repair, or	 planks	 andnails  and pitch worked into a ship under repair,  become  apart of the coat or the ship.When  the work to be executed is, as in the present case,  ahouse,	the  construction imbedded on the  land	 becomes  anaccretion  to it on the principle quicquid  plantatur  solo,solo  cedit and it vests in the other party not as a  resultof  the contract but as the owner of the land.	Vide  Hudsonon Building Contracts, 7th Edn. p. 386.	  It is argued	thatthe maxim, what is annexed    to  the  soil  goes  with	 thesoil, has not been accepted as	   a  correct  statement  ofthe  law  of  this country, and reliance is  placed  on	 thefollowing  observations	 in the Full Bench decision  of	 theCalcutta  High	Court  in  Thakoor  Chunder  Poramanick	  v.Ramdhone Bhuttacharjee (2) :We  think it should be laid down is a general rule that,  ifhe  who makes the improvement is not a mere trespasser,	 butis  in	possession  under any bona fide title  or  claim  oftitle,	he  is	entitled either	 to  remove  the  materials,restoring  the land to the state in which it was before	 theimprovement  was  made, or to obtain  compensation  for	 thevalue  of  the building if it is allowed to remain  for	 thebenefit	 of the owner of the soil,-the option of taking	 thebuilding, or allowing the removal of the material, remainingwith  the  owner  of the land in those cases  in  which	 thebuilding,  is  not  taken down by  the	builder	 during	 thecontinued ance of any estate he may possess."The statement of the law was quoted with approval(1) (1867) L.R. 2 C.P. 651.(2) (1866) 6W.R. 228.425by  the Privy Council in Beni Ram v. Kundan Lall (1) and  inNarayan	  Das  Khettry	v.  Jatindranath  (2).	 But   thesedecisions  are	concerned with rights of  persons  who,	 notbeing  trespassers, bona fide put up constructions on  landsbelonging to others, and as to such persons the	 authoritieslay down that the maxim recognised in English law,  quicquidplantatur solo, solo cedit has no application, and that theyhave  the right to remove the superstructures, and that	 theowner  of the land should pay compensation if he  elects  toretain	them.	That exception does not apply  to  buildingswhich are constructed in execution of a works contract,	 andthe law with reference to them is that the title to the samepasses	to  the owner of the land as an	 accretion  thereto.Accordingly,  there  can  be no question  of  title  to	 thematerials  passing as movables in favour of the other  partyto  the contrat.  It may be, as was suggested by Mr.  Sastrifor  the  respondents, that when the thing  to	be  producedunder  the contract is moveable property, then any  materialincorporated into it might pass as a movable, and in such  acase  the conclusion that no taxable sale will	result	fromthe disintegration of the contract can be rested only on theground that there was no agreement to sell the materials  assuch.	But we are concerned here with a building  contract,and  in the case of such a contract, the theory that it	 canbe broken up into its component parts and as regards one  ofthem  it can be said that there is a sale must fail both  onthe grounds that there is no agreement to sell materials  assuch, and that property in them does not pass as movables.To sum up, the expression " sale of goods " in Entry 48 is anomen juris, its essential ingredients being an agreement tosell  movables	for  a price and  property  passing  thereinpursuant  to that agreement.  In a building  contract  whichis, as in the present case, one, entire and indivisible	 andthat  is its norm, there is no sale of goods, and it is	 notwithin	the competence of the Provincial  Legislature  underEntry 48 to(1)  (1899) L. R. 26 1. A. 58.54(2) (1927) L.  R. 54 T. A. 218,426impose	a tax on the supply of the materials used in such  acontract treating it as a sale.This  conclusion  entails  that	 none  of  the	legislaturesconstituted  under  the Government of India Act,  1935,	 wascompetent  in the exercise of the power conferred by s.	 100to  make laws with respect to the matters enumerated in	 theLists,	to impose a tax on construction contracts  and	thatbefore	such  a	 law could be enacted  it  would  have	beennecessary to have had recourse to the residual powers of theGovernorGeneral	 under	s. 104 of the Act.  And it  must  beconceded  that a construction which leads to such a.  resultmust, if that is possible, be avoided.	Vide  Manikkasundarav.  R. S. Nayudu (1).  It is also a fact that acting on	 theview  that Entry 48 authorises it, the States  have  enactedlaws  imposing	a tax on the supply of	materials  in  workscontracts,  and have been realising it, and  their  validityhas  been affirmed by several High Courts.  All	 these	lawswere  in  the statute book when the Constitution  came	intoforce, and it is to be regretted that there is nothing in itwhich  offers a solution to the present question.  We  have,no  doubt,  Art.  248  and Entry 97  in	 List  I  conferringresidual power of legislation on Parliament, but clearly  itcould not have been intended that the Centre should have thepower  to  tax	with respect to	 works	constructed  in	 theStates.	 In view of the fact that the State Legislatures hadgiven  to  the expression " sale of goods " in	Entry  48  awider  meaning than what it has in the Indian Sale of  GoodsAct, that States with sovereign powers have in recent  timesbeen  enacting laws imposing tax on the use of materials  inthe construction of buildings, and that such a power  shouldmore  properly	be lodged with the States  rather  than	 theCentre,	 the  Constitution  might have	given  an  inclusivedefinition  of	"  sale " in Entry 54 so  as  to  cover	 theextended sense.	 But our duty is to interpret the law as  wefind  it, and having anxiously considered the  question,  weare  of opinion that there is no sale as such  of  materialsused  in  a  building  contract,  and  that  the  ProvincialLegislatures had no competence to impose a tax thereon underEntry 48,(1)  [1946] F.C.R. 67. 84.427To  avoid  misconception, it must be stated that  the  aboveconclusion  has	 reference  to works  contracts,  which	 areentire and indivisible, as the contracts of the	 respondentshave  been held by the learned Judges of the Court below  tobe.   The  several forms which such kinds of  contracts	 canassume	are set out in Hudson on Building Contracts,  at  p.165.   It  is  possible that the parties  might	 enter	intodistinct  and  separate contracts, one for the	transfer  ofmaterials for money consideration, and the other for paymentof  remuneration for services and for work done.  In such  acase,  there  are really two agreements, though there  is  asingle instrument embodying them, and the power of the Stateto separate the agreement to sell, from the agreement to  dowork  and render service and to impose a tax thereon  cannotbe  questioned,	 and  will stand untouched  by	the  presentjudgment.In  the	 result,  the appeal fails, and	 is  dismissed	withcosts.Appeal dismissed.