PETITIONER:LALIT MOHAN DAS	Vs.RESPONDENT:ADVOCATE-GENERAL, ORISSADATE OF JUDGMENT:29/11/1956BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.CITATION: 1957 AIR  250		  1957 SCR  167ACT:Legal  Practitioner-Report--Procedure-Not open	to  Districtjudge  to send back report to the Subordinate  civil  judge-Report	once made Proceedings can terminate by- Final  Orderof  the	 High Court only--Member of the Bar-Officer  of	 theCourt-Duty  to client and Court-Dignity and decorum  of	 theCourt must be upheld-Conduct-Not a matter between individualmember of Bar and a member of Judicial	Service-Disciplinaryaction-Punishment-Mitigating  circumstances-Interference  bySupreme	 Court-Legal Practitioners Act (XVIII of  1879),  s.14.HEADNOTE:The appellant pleader who already had strained relation withthe Munsif made certain objectionable remarks in open Court,suggesting  partiality	and unfairness on the  part  of	 theMunsif.The  Munsif  drew up a proceeding under ss. 13,	 14  Of	 theLegal  Practitioners  Act,  1879, against  the	pleader	 andsubmitted  a report to the High Court through  the  Districtjudge.An application to the Additional District judge was filed bythe pleader, for time to move the High Court to get an orderto have the matter heard by some judicial Officer other thanthe168Munsif	who  had  made the report.   One  month's  time	 wasaccordingly  granted, and for some reason which is not	veryapparent, the Additional District judge sent the record backto the Munsif.	The Additional District judge made an effortto  settle  the trouble.  It was arranged that	the  pleadershould	apologise and a resolution should be passed  by	 themembers	 of  the local Bar  Association.   Accordingly,	 thepleader	 appeared  in the Court of the Munsif  and  filed  awritten	 apology  and expressed his regret, and	 the  Munsifdropped	 the  proceeding.   It	was  later  found  that	 theresolution  was	 not passed in the terms  suggested  by	 theAdditional  District  judge,  and the  terms  of  settlementsuggested  by  the  latter  were  not  fully  carried	out.Accordingly, the proceeding was re-opened and the report wasre-submitted  to  the District judge who  with	his  opinionforwarded  the	same  to the High  Court.   The	 High  Courtsuspended the pleader for 5 years.It  was contended on behalf of the appellant that there	 wasno  valid reason for reviving the proceeding, after  it	 hadonce  been  dropped  on the submission	of  an	apology	 andexpression of regret.Held, that the report under s. 14 of the Legal PractitionersAct is a report which is submitted to the High Court.	Whena  report  is  made to the High Court  by  any	Civil  judgesubordinate to the District judge, the report shall be	madethrough	  the  District	 judge	and  the  report   must	  beaccompanied  by the opinion of such judge.  Once the  reporthas been made, it is not open to the District judge to	sendback the record to the Subordinate Civil judge, and no orderpassed by the Subordinate Civil judge can have the effect ofterminating or bringing to an end the proceeding.  The	HighCourt alone is competent to pass final orders on the report.A  member of the Bar is an officer of the Court, and  thoughhe owes a duty to his client and must place before the Courtall that can fairly and reasonably be submitted on behalf ofhis client, he also owes a duty to the Court and must upholdthe  dignity  and  decorum  of the  Court  in  which  he  isappearing.  Making amputations of partiality and  unfairnessagainst	 the  subordinate  Civil  judge	 in  open  Court  isscandalizing the Court in such a way as to pollute the	veryfount  of justice ; such conduct is not a matter between  anindividual  member of the Bar and a member of  the  judicialService.With  regard to disciplinary action against a member of	 theBar, the Supreme Court would be reluctant to interfere	withthe  order  of	the  High  Court  unless  there	 are   clearmitigating circumstances.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 176 of	1956and Petition No. 165 of 1955.Appeal	 by   special	leave	from   the   judgment	 andorder  dated March 15/23,1955 of the Orissa High  Court,  inCivil Reference No, 4 of 1954,			    169N.   C.	 Chatterji, D. -N.  Mukherjee and R.  Patinaik,	 forthe appellant.Porus A. Mehta and R. H. Dhebar, for respondent No. 1.1956.  November 29.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyS.K. DAS J.-The appellant is Shri Lalit Mohan Das, a pleaderof about 25 years' standing. who ordinarily practiced in theCourts	at  Anandapur  in the district	of  Mayur  bhanj  inOrissa.	 The Munsif of Anandapur, one Shri L. B. N. S.	Deo'drew  up  a  proceeding under ss. 13 and  14  of  the  LegalPractitioners  Act,  1879, against the pleader	for  grosslyimproper  conduct in the discharge of his professional	dutyand  submitted	a  report  to the  High	 Court	through	 theDistrict  Judge	 of Mayurbhanj on December  12,	 1953.	 TheDistrict  Judge	 forwarded the report,	accompanied  by	 hisopinion, to the High Court of Orissa on March 9, 1954.	 Therecommendation of the Munsif was that the pleader should  besuspended  from	 practice for one year.	 The  reference	 washeard  by the High Court of Orissa' and by its	order  datedMarch  15, 1955, the High Court came to the conclusion	thatthe pleader was guilty of grave professional misconduct	 andsuspended him from practice for a period of five years with.effect from March 15,1955,Shri  Lalit Mohan Das then obtained special leave from	thisCourt to appeal against the judgment and order of the OrissaHigh  Court  dated  March 15 /23, 1955.	  He  also  filed  apetition under Art. 32 of the Constitution.  Learned counselfor  the petitioner has not pressed the petition under	Art.32  and nothing more need be said about it.  We proceed	 nowto deal with the appeal which has been brought to this Courton special leave.The charges against the appellant were the following On July15,  1953,  the	 appellant was appearing on  behalf  of	 thedefendant  in Suit No. 81 of 1952 pending before the  Munsifof  Anandapur.	 On that date, there were  two	other  suitspending	 before the same Munsif.  There were  petitions	 fortime in all the three suits.22170The  Munsif wanted to take up the oldest suit  for  hearing,and the oldest suit being Suit No. 54 of 1952, it was  takenup first and five witnesses for the plaintiff were examined.Suit  No. 81 of 1952 was postponed to August 18, 1953.	 Theappellant, who appeared for the defendant in that suit,	 wasinformed  of  the  postponement.   When	 so  informed,	 theappellant made a-remark in open Court and within the hearingof  the	 Munsif to this effect: " If the Peshkar  is  gainedover,  he can do everything." He then left the	Court.	 TheMunsif	was  surprised	at the remark  made  and  asked	 theappellant to explain his conduct, by means of a letter	sentthe  same day.	As the appellant sent no reply,	 the  Munsifwrote  again  to the appellant on July 18,  1953.   To	thisletter the appellant sent the following reply:"Dear Sir,I  am painfully constrained to receive memo after  memo	 forsome imaginary act of mine not in any way connected with  myaffairs	 for  which if any explanation is at  all  warrantedofficiallv.For  your second memo I felt it desirable as a gentleman  toreply.Further I may request you to be more polite while addressingletters to lawyers.				       Yours faithfully,				   Sd. L. M. Das.  Pleader."It  is obvious that the letter of the appellant was  couchedin  very  improper  terms  and	considerably  strained	 therelation   between  the	 Munsif	 and  the  appellant.	 Theappellant,  it	may  be stated here, was at  that  time	 thePresident  of the Anandapur Sub Divisional  Bar	 Associationwhich  consisted of about 14 legal practitioners.   On	July21,  1953, Shri B. Raghava Rao, who was the  predecessor  inoffice of Shri Deo, came to Anandapur.	He was the guest  ofShri A. V. Ranga Rao, the Sub- Divisional Officer.  One ShriN. C. Mohanty, a pleader of.  Anandapur and who was  relatedto  the	 appellant, -came -to invite the two  Munsifs  to  aluncheon  on  the occasion of a housewarming  ceremony.	  Onhearing about the trouble between Shri Deo171and  the  appellant, Shri B. Raghava Rao interceded  and  itappears	 that  the appellant was persuaded to  come  to	 thehouse of the Sub-Divisional officer and to ,say that he	 wassorry  for what had happened in court on July 15, 1953,	 andthat-  he did not happean to insult Shri Deo; Shri  Deo,  itappears,  accepted the apology and for the time	 being.	 thetrouble between the two was smoothed over.A  second  incident, however, took place  on  September	 25,1953.	The  appellant	was appearing  for  a  defendant  inanother suit before the Munsif It was Suit No. 101 of  1952.This  suit was fixed for hearing on September 21, 1953.	  Asthat date was a holiday, the suit was taken up 'on September22, 1953.  Another suit, Suit No. 86 of 1952, was also fixedfor hearing on that date but Shri N. C. Mohanty, pleader forthe defendants in that suit, took time on the ground of	 theillness	 of  one  -of  the  defendants,	 which	ground	 wassupported by a medical certificate.  In Suit No. 101 of 1952also,  the  defendants applied for time. on  the  ground  ofillness	 of  their  witnesses; but there  being	 no  medicalcertificate  in support of the allegation of illness and  nowitnesses  having  been summoned in that suit,	the  learnedMunsif refused to grant time, and one Shri P. N. Patnaik whoalso  represented  the defendants agreed to go on  with	 thesuit.	The  suit  was then heard for two days,	 i.  e.,  onSeptember  22  and  23,	 1953, and at  the  request  of	 thedefendants'  lawyers the hearing of arguments was  postponedto  September 25, 1953.	 On that date the appellant came  toCourt accompanied by his junior Shri P. N. Patnaik, for	 thepurpose of arguing the case on behalf of the defendants.  Atthe  very  outset of his arguments the	appellant  made	 thefollwing remarks:The Court is unfair to me, while the  Courtwas  fair to Mr. Misra (meaning Shri Bhagabat  Prasad  Misrawho  was  appearing for the plaintiffs in that	suit).	 TheCourt  is  accommodating and granting  adjournments  to	 Mr.Misra  while it was not accommodating me.". The Munsif	tookobjection  to these remarks but nothing	 untoward  happened.The appellant concluded his arguments.172A  third  incident  brought matters to a  climax,  and	thisincident  took place on September 29, 1953.   The  appellantwas appearing for the defendants in Suit No. 6 of 1951.	  Inthat   suit   a	 preliminary  point  of	  jurisdiction	 andsufficiency  of	 court fees was raised and Shri	 B.  RaghavaRao,  the predecessor in office of Shri Deo, had dealt	withthe point and decided it against the appellant's client.   ACivil  Revision taken to the High Court was  also  rejected.'The appellant, however, again pressed the same	 preliminarypoint  and on September. 29, 1953, Shri Deo passed an  orderdismissing  the preliminary objection.	When this order	 wasshown  to the appellant, he stood up and shouted at the	 topof   his  voice-I'I  on	 behalf	 of  the  Bar	Association,Anandapur, challenge the order of the Court,.  The Court hasno principle as it is passing one kind of order in one	suitand  another kind of order in another suit." The Munsif,  itappears,  was disgusted at the conduct of the appellant	 andhe  stood up and, left the Court room, directing  the  benchclerk to send a telegram to the District Judge., A  telegramwas  accordingly  sent to the District Judge asking  him  tocome to Anandapur.  The District Judge asked for a  detailedreport	which  was sent on October 1, 1953.  On	 October  5,1953, the Munsif drew up a proceeding against the  appellanton  a  charge  under s. 13 of the  Legal  Practitioners	 Actreferring  therein to the three incidents  mentioned  above.The  appellant was asked to show cause by October 26,  1953.On  November 3, 1953, the appellant denied  the	 allegationsmade  and  took	 up the attitude that  the  Munsif  was	 notcompetent to hold the enquiry on the ground that the  Munsifwas in the position of a complainant.  The appellant gave  adifferent  version  of what happened on the three  dates  inquestion.  With regard to the incident of July 15, 1953, theappellant's plea was that some other client had come to him.in connection with a criminal case pending in another  Courtand  to that client the appellant had said that	 an  enquiryshould be made from the Peshkar as to the date fixed.	Withregard	to the incident, on September 25, 1953, the plea  ofthe appellant was^ total denial, and with regard to the lastincident, the appellant said173that  the Munsif behaved rudely- and wanted to' assault	 theappellant, for which the appellant appears, to have filed  apetition  to the Governor of Orissa on September  30,  1953,for according sanction for the prosecution of  the Munsif.It may be stated here that on October 8, 1953, a  resolutionwas  passed, numbered Resolution 6, which purported to be  aresolution on behalf of the Bar Association, Anandapur.	 Theresolution was in these termis:"Resolved  that on September 29, 1953, the Court's  (Munsif)action	on the. dais in rising from the chair,	thumping  onthe  table, shouting at the top of his voice, and using	 thewords 'shut up' against one honourable member (President) ofthis  Bar Association is quite	unprecedented.,	 undesirableand  affecting	the  prestige  of  the	Bar  and  may  causeapprehension in the mind of the litigant public to get	fairjustice."It  may	 be  stated  that some	other  members	of  the	 Bardissociated  themselves from the a id resolution at a  laterdate.  The proceeding against the appellant under the  LegalPractitioners  Act  stated,  as we  have  said	earlier,  onOctober	 5,  1953,  and	 the  appellant	 filed	his  writtenstatement  on  November 3, 1953.  On November 5,  1953,	 theMunsif	sent the record to the District Judge in  connectionwith  the plea of the appellant that the enquiry  should  bemade  by some other judicial officer.  The  District  Judge,however,  took the view that under the provisions of ss.  13and 14 of the Legal Practitioners Act the enquiry should  bemade by the Munsif himself and the records were	 accordinglysent back to the Munsif.  Thereafter, the appellant  non-co-operated and did not appear at the enquiry though more	thanone communication was sent to ham The enquiry was  concludedon  December 11, 1953, and the Munsif submitted his  report.to,.  the High Court through the District Judge on  December12,  1953.   On December 22, 1953, the	appellant  filed  anapplication  to	 the Additional District Judge for  time  tomove the High Court to get an order to have the matter heardby some other judicial officer.	 One month's time was174accordingly  granted and the Additional District Judge,	 forsome reason which is not very apparent, sent the record backto  the	 learned  Munsif In  the  meantime,  the  AdditionalDistrict  Judge,  it appears, made an effort to	 settle	 thetrouble.   On December 23, 1953, he met the members  of	 theBar Association and the Munsif at the inspection bungalow atAnandapur  on  his way to Mayurbhanj.  At  a  -meeting	heldthere,	a  copy of a draft resolution to be  passed  by	 themembers	 of the Bar Association, Anandapur, was	 made  over.This draft resolution was in these terms:"This  Association  re	rets  very  much  that	an  incidentrelating to the bench clerk of the Civil Court. should	haveled to the subsequent unhappy differences between the  Benchand  the  members  of the Bar.	As in the  interest  of	 thelitigant  public  it is felt not desirable  to	allow  thesestrained  feelings  to continue	 further,  this	 Associationunanimously  resolves  to withdraw Resolution  No.  6  datedOctober	 8, 1953, passed against the Court  and	 communicatecopies	 of   the   same  to   the   addressees	  previouslycommunicated.	It is further resolved to request the  Courtto  see to the desirability of withdrawing  the	 proceedingsthat had been started against the various members of the Barand  their registered clerks on their expressing  regret  tothe Court individually in connection with those proceedings.It is further resolved that the members of the Bar  involvedin  the proceedings be requested to take immediate steps  inthis direction.	 The Association hopes that the bench  clerkwho  has  -to some extent been the cause for  this  frictionbetween the Bench and the Bar would be replaced by a  personfrom a different place at an earlier date."On  January 8, 1954, the appellant appeared in the Court  ofthe  Munsif  and filed a written apology and  expressed	 hisregret.	 His signature wag taken on the order-sheet and	 theorder of that date reads:"Sri  L. M. Das, pleader, appears and expresses his  regret.So  the	 proceeding  No. 2 of  1952  is	 dropped.   IntimateAdditional District Judge."No resolution, however, was passed in the terms			    175suggested by the Additional District Judge.  On January	 19,1954, two resolution,% were passed in the following terms:"No.  1. In - view of the fact that  past  misunderstandingsbetween	 the  Munsif  and members of the Bar  caused  by  anincident  relating  to the bench clerk of the  Civil  Court,have  been  removed by amicable	 settlement  of	 differencesexisting  between both parties, it is  unanimously  resolvedthat  resolution  No.  6  dated	 October  8,  1953,   standswithdrawn.No.  2. It is further resolved that the copies of the  aboveresolution be sent to the addressees previously communicatedof resolution No. 6 of October 8, 1953."The  learned  Munsif, it appears, wanted to see	 the  minutebook of the Bar Association, presumably to find out in	whatterms  the proposed resolution was passed.  There was  againtrouble	 between  the  Munsif and  the	appellant  over	 theproduction.  of	 the -minute book.  Ultimately,	 the  minutebook  was  produced,  and on  February	2,1954,	 the  Munsifexpressed the view that the resolution passed did not  fullycarry	out  the  terms	 of  settlement	 suggested  by	 theAdditional District Judge.  Accordingly, the proceeding	 wasre-opened  and the record was re-submitted to  the  Districtfudge.	The District Judge thereupon sent the report of	 theMunsif	to the High Court accompanied by his  opinion.	 TheHigh  Court dealt with the report with the result  which  wehave already indicated.The main contention of Mr. N. C. Chatterji, who has appearedon  behalf of the appellant is this.  He has submitted	thatthere  was  no	valid reason  for  reviving  the  proceedingagainst the appellant, after the proceeding had been droppedon  January  8, 1954, on the submission of  an	apology	 andexpression  of regret by his client; because,  in  substanceand  effect,  the terms of the settlement suggested  by	 theAdditional District Judge had been complied with.  Accordingto  Mr. Chatterji an expression of regret having  been	madeearlier	 than the passing of the resolutions on January	 19,1954,  by the Anandapur Bar Association and the bench  clerkhaving already been transferred from176Anandapur, the resolutions could not be in the same terms aswere suggested by the Additional District Judge; but the tworesolutions  passed  on January 19, 1954  coupled  with	 theexpression  of	individual regret made on January  8,  1954,complied in substance with the essential terms of the  draftresolution which the Additional District Judge had made overon December 23, 1953.  Mr. Chatterji has contended that thisview  of the matter has not been properly considered by	 theHigh  Court.   He has submitted that in view  of  the  orderpassed by the learned Munsif himself on January 8, 1954, theproceeding against the appellant should be treated as havingbeen dropped and concluded on that date.Mr. Chatterji has also drawn our attention to ground No.  VIin  the	 petition for special leave dated May  9,  1955,  inwhich the appellant said that he was " willing and  preparedto submit before this Court expressions of unreserved regretand  apology for his error of judament and indiscretion,  ifany, in the discharge of his professional duties."We  cannot accept the contention of Mr. Chatterji  that	 theorder  passed by the learned Munsif on January 8, 1954,	 hadthe  effect  of	 terminating  and bringing  to	an  end	 theproceeding  against - the appellant.  The learned Judges  ofthe  High Court rightly pointed out that the report  of	 theMunsif	dated  December	 12, 1953, was a  report  which	 wassubmitted to the High Court.  Under the provisions of s.  14of  the	 Legal Practitioners Act, such a report	 had  to  beforwarded   to	the  High  Court  by  the   District   Judgeaccompanied  by	 his  opinion.	 It was	 not  open  to.	 theAdditional  District  Judge to send back the record  to	 theMunsif	The efforts of the Additional District	Judge  were,indeed,	 well-intentioned;  but	 at that  stage,  after	 theMunsif had made his report to the High Court, the High Courtalone Was competent to pass final orders in the matter.Apart,	however, from that difficulty, we are not  satisfiedthat  the  terms of settlement suggested by  the  AdditionalDistrict Judge were fully complied with in this case.  It istrue, that the appellant did express his			    177regret	and to that extent the settlement suggested  by	 theAdditional District Judge was carried out.  It is also	truethat  by  the resolutions passed on January  19,  1954,	 theearlier	 resolution of October 8, 1953, was  cancelled,	 butone essential and important part of the terms of  settlementsuggested  by  the Additional District Judge  was  that	 theAssociation  should  express regret at	what  had  happened.Resolution No. I dated January 19, 1954, was so worded as togive  the impression that the misunderstanding	between	 theMunsif and the appellant was all due to the bench clerk	 andthat  misunderstanding having been removed Resolution No.  6dated  October,$,  1953,  should  be  withdrawn.   There  isnothing in the resolution to show that the appellant was  inany  way  at fault, a fault which he had expiated  I  by  anexpression  of	regret.	  It may be  pointed  out  that	 theearlier ,resolution, Resolution No. 6 dated October 8, 1953,had  been  communicated	 to a large number  of	persons	 andauthorities  and  the  later resolution	 dated	January	 19,1,954,	passed in the diluted form in which it	was  passed,could  hardly  undo the damage which had been  made  by	 theearlier resolution.On  merits we agree with the High Court that  the  appellantwas undoubtedly guilty of grave professional, misconduct.  Amember of the Bar undoubtedly owes a duty, to his client andmust  place  before  the  Court	 all  that  can	 fairly	 andreasonably  be	submitted on behalf of his client.   He	 may-even submit that a particular order is not correct land mayask for a review of that order.	 At the same time, a  memberof  the 'Bar is an officer of the Court and owes a  duty  tothe  Court  in which- he is appearing.	He -must  phold	 thedignity	 and decorum of the Court and must not do any  thingto.  bring the Court itself into disrepute.   The  appellantbefore us grossly' overstepped the limits of proprieety whenhe  made imputation$; of partiality and unfairiness  againstthe  Munsif  in open Court.  In suggesting that	 the  Munsiffollowed  no  principle	 -in his orders	 the  appellant	 wasadding insult to- injury, because the 'Munsif -had merely upheld an order of his predecessor on the preliminary point ofjurisdiction and Court fees,23178which order had been upheld by the High Court in s revision.Scandalising  the Court in such manner is  really  pollutingthe  very  fount of justice; such conduct as  the  appellantindulged in was not a matter between an individual member ofthe  Bar  and a member of the judicial service;	 it  broughtinto  disrepute the whole administration of  justice.	From-that point of view, the conduct-of the appellant was highlyreprehensible.	The appellant gave no evidence in support ofhis  version of the incidents, though he had an	 opportunityof doingso, if he so desired.The  only point left for consideration, is the	question  ofpunishment.  On a matter of this nature, this Court would bereluctant  to interfere with the order of the High Court  asrespects  the  disciplinary  action to be  taken  against  amember	of  the	 Bar who has  been  guilty  of	professionalmisconduct.	There	are,   however,	   two	  mitigatingcircumstances.	 One  is  that the  learned  Munsif  himselfrecommended  suspension of practice for one year only.	 Theappellant  was	suspended from practice	 with  affect,	fromMarch 15,1955.	The order of suspension has now lasted for alittle	more  than  a year and	eight  months.	 The  secondmitigating  circumstance is that the appellant did  file  lawritten apology	    and	 expressed  regret  to	the  learnedMunsif	onJanuary  8,  1954.  It  is  unfortunate  that	 theappellantdid  not  take up a more contrite attitude  in	 theHigh Court.  In this Court, the appellant tried to make	 outthat  the  proceeding  against	him  should  not  have	beenrevived;  he  however  showed his willingness  to  offer  anapology	 and ex pression of regret Having regard to all	 thecircumstances, we think that the punishment imposed errs -onthe  side  of  excess.	We -would  accordingly	reduece	 theperiod of susppusion to, two years only.In the result, the petition, under Art. 32 is dismissed	 andthe appeal is,also dismissed subject to the reduction of theperiod	 of   suspension  as  indicated	  above.    In	 thecircumstances of this case, there will be, no 'orderfor costs.Appeal dismissed			    179