PETITIONER:THE STATE OF BIHAR	Vs.RESPONDENT:RAT  BAHADUR HURDUT ROY-MOTT LALL JUTE MILLS & ANOTHER	(andDATE OF JUDGMENT:26/11/1959BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)SUBBARAO, K.GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR  378		  1960 SCR  (2) 331 CITATOR INFO : C	    1984 SC1194	 (28)ACT:Sales	Tax-Amount  realised  by  registered   dealer	fromsales outside the State-Forfeiture of such  amount-Validity-Allowable  deduction, meaning of-Bihar Sales Tax  Act,	1947(XIX  of  1947),  Ss. 5, 6, 7, 8, 14A  Proviso,	 33,  r.  19Proviso,HEADNOTE:The  respondent mills, a registered dealer under  the  BiharSales  Tax  Act,  1947 (Act 111 of 1947),  was	carrying  onbusiness of manufacture and sale of gunny bags, hessian	 andother jute products at Katihar.	 During the period April  1,1950,  to March 31, 1951, it sold and despatched  its  waresworth  about Rs. 92,24,386-1-6 to dealers outside the  Stateand  realised  a sum of Rs. 2,11,222-9-6 as  sales-tax	fromthem.	In  assessing  the sales-tax  payable  by  the	saidrespondent  for	 the relevant period the  Superintendent  ofSales  Tax, Purnea, held that the said amount  of  sales-taxhad been realised in contravention of s. 14A of the Act readwith  r. 19 of the Bihar Sales Tax Rules, and  directed	 itsforfeiture   under  the	 proviso  to  that   section.	 Therespondent  challenged the validity of the said order  underArts. 226 and 227 of the Constitution.	The High Court	heldthat  the proviso to S. 14A of the Act was ultra  vires	 theState  Legislature as it violated Arts. 20(1) and  31(2)  ofthe  Constitution and set aside the order of forfeiture	 andquashed the proceedings under s. 14A of the Act.  The  Stateof  Bihar  appealed to this Court.  It was urged by  way  ofpreliminary objection on behalf of the respondent that sincethe  proviso to s. 14A of the Act had no application to	 thefacts  of  the	case, there was no occasion  to	 decide	 itsconstitutional	validity.  The contention of  the  appellintwas that the proviso did apply to the respondent inasmuch332 as  he	 had  contravened the  conditions  and	restrictionsimposed	 by   the  proviso  to	r.  19.	  The  question	 fordetermination,	therefore,  was whether the said  respondentcould  be said to have realised any amount by way of tax  inrespect	 of such part of its turn-over as was allowed to  bededucted  from his gross turn-over for the determination  ofhis  taxable  turn-over	 under	the Act	 or  the  rules,  ascontemplated by the later part of the said proviso.Held, that the preliminary objection must prevail.Held,  further, that before the penalty of forfeiture  couldbe imposed upon a dealer under the proviso to s. 14A of	 theBihar  Sales tax Act, 1947, it had to be shown that  he	 hadacted contrary to the conditions and restrictions prescribedby  the	 Rules	and  it was not	 enough	 to  show  that	 thecollection  of	the  sales tax made  by	 him  was  otherwiseillegal	 or  improper.	The contravention of  the  statutoryprovisions  contained in s. 14A or of the Rules	 prescribingconditions and restrictions in that behalf alone could	formthe  basis  of the imposition of the penalty  of  forfeitureprescribed by the said proviso.With the insertion of S. 33 into the Act with  retrospectiveoperation,  prohibiting the imposition of the tax  on  salestaking	place outside the State and in view of the  decisionof  this  Court	 in State of Bombaay v.	 The  United  Motors(India)	 Ltd. [1953] S.C.R. 1069, the proviso to r. 19	mustbe  construed on the basis that the sales in  question	wereoutside the scope of the Act and no tax could be imposed  onthem.	It could not, therefore, be said that that  part  ofthe  respondent's  turnover  which was in  question  was  anallowable deduction within the meaning of the said  proviso.Such allowable deductions as are contemplated by the provisoare clearly based on the provisions of ss. 6, 7 and 8 of theAct  as is quite clear from the Explanation to s. 5  of	 theAct.State of Bombay & Another v. The United Motors (India)	Ltd.JUDGMENT:An  allowable deduction under the said proviso was  not	 thesame  thing as exclusion of a part of the turn-over  on	 thebasis  of  s.  33(1)(a)(1)  of the Act.	  It  stands  on  anentirely different footing.  Transactions which fall  withinthe said section are in substance outside the Act and no taxcan  be	 imposed on them.  The transaction in  question	 didnot,  therefore,  fall within the proviso to  r.19  and	 theproviso	 to  S.	 14A  was not attracted	 and  the  order  offorfeiture passed against the respondent was unjustified andillegal.&CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.678 of 1957.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated August 1,  1956-ofthe  Patna  High Court, in Misc.  Judicial Case No.  188  of1955.			    WITHCivil Appeals Nos. 546 of 1958 and 115 of 1959.			    333Appeals from the judgment and order dated March 8, 1957,  ofthe Patna High Court, in Misc.	Judicial Cases Nos. 116	 and215 of 1956.Lal Narayan Sinha and S. P. Varma, for the appellant.C.   K.	 Daphtary,  Solicitor-General  of India	 and  R.  C.Prasad, for respondent No. 1 in C. A. No. 678 of 57.B.   C.. Ghose and P. K. Chatterjee, for the intervener.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India and C.P. Lal, for respondent No. 1 in C.A. No. 546 of 58.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India and P.K. Chatterjee, for respondent No. 1 in C.A. No. 115 of 1959.1959.  November 26.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyGAJENDRAGADKAR	J.-This	 is a group of three  appeals  whichhave  been  filed  in  this Court  by  the  State  of  Bihar(hereinafter  called the appellant) against  three  separateregistered  dealers with a certificate issued by  the  PatnaHigh  Court  Under Art. 132(1) of of the  Constitution	thatthey  involve  a  substantial  question of  law	 as  to	 theinterpretation of Art. 20(1) of the Constitution.  The factsin  each  one of the three appeals are similar,	 though	 notexactly	 the same, but they raise a common question  of	 lawunder the proviso to s. 14A of the Bihar Sales Tax Act, 1947(Act  XIX of 1947) (hereinafter called the-Act).  Orders  offorfeiture  have  been passed against the  three  registereddealers in the three appeals respectively, and they raise  acommon question of law in regard to the validity of the saidorders.	  By consent Civil Appeal No. 678 of 1957, has	beenargued	before	us as the principal appeal and it  has	beenconceded  that our decision in that appeal will	 govern	 thetwo other appeals.  We would,, therefore, set out the  factsin Civil Appeal No, 678 of 1957 and deal with the merits  ofthe points raised for our decision in that appeal.Rai   Bahadur  Hurdut  Roy  Motilal  Jute   Mills,   Katihar(hereinafter called the first respondent) was at the,43334material time registered as a dealer under the Act and	 wascarrying oil business of manufacture and sale of gunny bags,Hessian	 and other jute products at Katihar in the  districtof Purnea.  During the period April  1, 1950, to  March	 31,195  1,	 the said respondent sold  and despatched  its	wareworth about Rs. 92,24,386     to  dealers outside the  Stateof  Bihar and realised a  sum of Rs. 2,11,222-9-6  as  salestax from such dealers.	The said respondent's assessment  tosales  tax  for	 the relevant period was  taken	 up  by	 theSuperintendent of Sales Tax, Purnea (hereinafter called	 thesecond	respondent) on May 31, 1953; and in  consequence  ofthese  proceedings the impugned order of forfeiture came  tobe passed.Meanwhile  Art.	 286 of the Constitution  along	 with  otherarticles was considered by this Court in the State of Bombay&  Anr. v. The United Motors (India) Ltd. & Ors.  (1).	 Thequestion  which this Court bad to consider in that case	 wasabout  the  vires of the impugned provisions of	 the  BombaySales Tax Act, 1952 (Act XXIV of 1952), and for the decisionof  the	 said  question	 Art. 286  fell	 to  be	 Considered.According  to  the  majority  judgment	in  that  case	Art.286(1)(a) read with the explanation thereto and construed inthe light of Art. 301 and Art. 304 prohibits the taxation ofsales  or  purchases involving inter-State elements  by	 allStates except the State in which the goods are delivered forthe  purpose  of consumption therein.  The latter  State  isleft free to tax such sales or purchases and it derives thispower  not by virtue of the explanation to Art.	 286(1)	 butunder  Art. 243(3) read with Entry 54 of List 11.  The	viewthat the explanation does not deprive the State in which theproperty  in the goods passed of its taxing power  and	thatconsequently  both the State in which the property  in	-thegoods passes and the State in which the goods are  deliveredfor consumption have the power to tax is not correct.When  the first respondent's assessment was taken up by	 thesecond respondent his attention was invited to this  Court'sdecision  in the case of the United Motors (1); he  followedthe said decision and held that(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 1069.			    335the turn over of Rs. 92,24,386-1-6 on account of despatch ofmanufactured   jute  products  to  out-of-Stat	buyers	 wasexempted  from the levy of tax; this meant, a  deduction  ofthe  said  amount from the amount of Rai Bahadur  the  totalturnover  shown	 by  the  first	 respondent  in	 the  returnsubmitted by him according to the provisions of the Act.Subsequently  the second respondent proceeded	 against thefirst  respondent  under  s. 14A of the Act"  and  issued  anotice in that behalf on June 18, 1954.	 By this notice	 thefirst  respondent  was	called upon to show  cause  why	 theentire	amount of Rs. 2,11,222-9-6 which had been  recoveredby him as sales tax from the dealers should not be forfeitedto  Government.	 The first respondent showed cause  but	 thesecond	respondent  was not satisfied with  the	 explanationgiven by the first respondent, and so he directed the  firstrespondent  to deposit the said amount into  the  Governmenttreasury and produce the proof of payment before him  withina month of the receipt of his order.  This order was  passedon  February 10, 1955.	It shows that the second  respondentthought that the matter raised for his decision was  simple;the first respondent had collected the amount in question astax  under the Act from his customers for and on  behalf  ofthe appellant, and so he could not retain the said amount  ;it  must  go to the State coffers.  He also  held  that	 thefirst respondent had represented to the, purchasers that theamount was chargeable as sales tax under the Act and as suchthe  first respondent had clearly contravened  the  explicitprovisions of s. 14A of the Act read with r. 19 of the BiharSales  Tax Rules (hereinafter called the Rules).  It  is  onthese  findings	 that  the  second  respondent	passed	 theimpugned order of forfeiture.The  first respondent then applied to the Patna High  Court,tinder Arts. 226 and 227 of the Constitution challenging thevalidity of the said order.  It was urged on his behalf thatthe  proviso  to s. 14A under which the impugned  order	 waspurported  to have been passed did not apply to the case  ofthe  first  respondent,	 and  as  such	the  order  was	 Dotjustified336by  the said proviso.  It was also contended that if  it  isheld  that the said proviso justified the impugned order  itwas  ultra  vires  the	State  Legislature  inasmuch  as  itviolates Art. 20(1) and Art. 31(2) of the Constitution.	 TheHigh  Court  did not consider the  first  contention  raisedbefore it; it dealt with the two constitutional points urgedby the first respondent	  and found in his favour on both ofthem.On   these  findings  the  petition  filed  by	 the   firstrespondent was allowed, the impugned order of forfeiture wasset  aside  and	 the proceedings  taken	 against  the  firstrespondent  under s. 14A were quashed.	The  appellant	thenapplied	 for and obtained a certificate from the  said	HighCourt under Art. 132(1) of the Constitution.On  behalf  of	the  appellant	Mr.  Lal  Narain  Sinha	 hascontended  that the High Court was in error in holding	thatthe  proviso  to s. 14A violates either Art. 20(1)  or	Art.31(2) of the Constitution.  He has addressed us at length insupport	 of  his case that neither of the  two	articles  isviolated  by  the impuged proviso.  On the other  hand,	 thelearned SolicitorGeneral has sought to support the  findingsof the High Court on the said two constitutional points; andhe has pressed before us as a preliminary point his argumentthat  on  a fair and reasonable	 construction,	the  provisocannot	be applied to the case of the first respondent.	  Wewould,	therefore, first deal with this	 preliminary  point.In  cases  where  the  vires  of  statutory  provisions	 arechallenged  on constitutional grounds, it is essential	thatthe material facts should first be clarified and ascertainedwith  a	 view to determine whether  the	 impugned  statutoryprovisions  are attracted; if they are,	 the  constitutionalchallenge  to their validity must be examined  and  decided.If, however, the facts admitted or proved do not attract theimpugned provisions there is no occasion to decide the issueabout the vires of the said provisions.	 Any decision on thesaid  question	would  in such a case  be  purely  academic.Courts are and should be reluctant to decide  constitutionalpoints merely as matters of academic importance.			    337Before considering the preliminary point raised by the firstrespondent  it is necessary to refer briefly	the relevantscheme	of the Act.  The Act was originally passed  in	1947because	 the  Legislature thought it necessary	to  make  anaddition  to the revenue of Bihar, and for that	 purpose  toimpose a tax on the sale of goods in Bihar.  The  provisionsof  the Act as well as the statutory Rules framed  under  ithave  been subsequently modified from time to time.  In	 ourpresent discussions we would refer to the provisions and theRules  which  were in operation at the material	 time.	 Thegoods  the sale of which is taxed under the Act are  definedby  s. 2(d) as meaning all kinds of moveable property  otherthan  those specifically excepted.  Section 2(g)  defines  "sale  "	 inter alia as meaning any transfer of	property  ingoods  for  cash  or other  considerations  and	 the  secondproviso	 to  it prescribes that the sale  of  any  goods-(1)which  are  actually in Bihar at the time when,	 in  respectthereof the contract of sale as defined in s. 4 of that	 Actis made, or (2) which are produced or manufactured in  Biharby the producer or manufacturer thereof,-shall wherever	 thedelivery  or  contract of sale is made, be  deemed  for	 thepurposes of this Act to have taken place in Bihar.  The	 taxleviable Linder the Act is defined by s. 2(hh) as  includinga fee fixed in lieu of the tax under 'the' first proviso  tos. 5, whereas under s. 2(i) " turnover " means the aggregateof  the amounts of sale prices received and receivable by  adealer in respect of sale or supply of goods or carrying outof  any contract, effected or made during the given  period,or,  where  the	 amount of turnover  is	 determined  in	 theprescribed manner, the amount so determined. Section 4 whichis  the	 charging section provides that every  dealer  whosegross  turnover during the specified period on	sales  whichhave  taken  place  both in and outside	 Bihar	exceeds	 Rs.10,000 shall be liable to pay tax on sales which have  takenplace in Bihar oil and from the date of the commencement  ofthe Act.  This section shows that the incidence of  taxationcan be attracted only where the gross turnover of the dealerexceeds Rs. 10,000 and in338determining this prescribed minimum. sales which take  placeboth  in Bihar and outside are taken into account.   Section5, prescribes the rate of tax at six pies in a rupee on	 thetaxable turnover.  The provisos	   to  this  section  conferspecific powers on the State	   Government;	 the   firstproviso which is relevant for our purpose empowers the StateGovernment  by notification to fix a higher rate of tax	 notexceeding  one anna in a rupee or any lower rate of  tax  inrespect of sale of any goods or class of goods specified  insuch  notification  subject  to such conditions	 as  it	 mayimpose.	 The explanation to this section indicates what	 thetaxable	 turnover for the purpose of the section  means.   "Taxable turnover " according to this explanation means	thatpart of a dealer's gross turnover on sales which have  takenplace  in  Bihar  during  any  period  which  remains  afterdeducting therefrom the items specified in cls. (a) and	 (b)of  the explanation.  The sale of any goods	    declaredfrom  time  to time as tax-free goods under s. 6 is  one  ofthose  items.	Section 6 empowers the State  Government  toexempt sale of any goods or class of goods from the levy  oftax  under this Act subject to the conditions  specified  inthe section, whereas s. 7 empowers the Government to  exemptdealers	 from  tax, and s. 8 authorises	 the  Government  toprescribe  points at which goods may be taxed  or  exempted.Section 9 deals with the question of registration of dealersand  provides that no dealer who is liable to pay tax  unders.  4 shall carry on business unless he has been  registeredunder  the  Act and possesses  a  registration	certificate.Under  s. 11 a list of registered dealers is published,	 andby  s.	12 such registered dealers are required	 to  furnishsuch returns by such dates and to such authorities as may beprescribed.    Section	13  prescribes	the  procedure	 forassessment,  and s. 14 requires that the tax  payable  underthe Act shall be paid in the manner hereinafter provided  atsuch intervals as may be prescribed.  Section 14(2) requiresthe registered dealer to pay into a Government treasury	 thefull  amount  of tax due from him according to	the  returnswhich he has to file and has to			    339furnish	 along	with  the said return  a  receipt  from	 thetreasury showing the payment of such amount.Having	thus  provided for the recovery of the	tax  chargedunder s. 4, s. 14A in effect authorises	  registered dealersto  reimburse  their dues by making collections of  the	 taxpayable	 by  them in accordance with  the  restrictions	 andconditions as may be prescribed.  It provides that no dealerwho  is not a registered dealer shall realise any amount  byway  of tax on sale of goods from purchasers nor  shall	 anyregistered  dealer  make  any collection of  tax  except  inaccordance  with such restrictions and conditions as may  beprescribed.   That  takes us to the proviso to s.  14A	withwhich  we are directly concerned in the present appeal.	  Itreads thus:" Provided that if any dealer collects any amount by way  oftax,  in contravention of the provision of this	 section  orthe  conditions and restrictions prescribed thereunder,	 theamount	 so  collected	shall,	without	 prejudice  to	 anypunishment to which the dealer may be liable for an  offenceunder  this  Act, be forfeited to the State  Government	 andsuch  dealer  shall  pay such  amount  into  the  Governmenttreasury in accordance with a direction issued to him by theCommissioner  or  any officer appointed under section  3  toassist him and in default of such payment, the amount  shallbe recovered as an arrear of land revenue."The effect of this proviso is clear.  A dealer is authorisedto collect amounts by way of tax from the purchasers only inaccordance  with the provision of s. 14A and the  conditionsand restrictions prescribed thereunder.	 The conditions	 andrestrictions  referred to in the proviso are to be found  inthe  material  Rules framed under the Act.  If it  is  shownthat  a	 dealer	 has collected an amount by way	 of  tax  inviolation  of the conditions and restrictions prescribed  bythe  Rules he incurs the penalty of forfeiture as  specifiedin  the	 proviso.   There can be no doubt  that	 before	 thepenalty	 of forfeiture can be imposed upon the dealer  underthe  proviso it must be shown that he has acted contrary  tothe conditions and restrictions prescribed 340by  the	 Rules.	  It would not be enough to  show  that	 thecollection  of	the  amounts in question by  the  dealer  isotherwise  illegal  or improper.  The contravention  of	 thestatutory  provision  contained in s. 14A or  of  the  Rulesprescribing conditions and restrictions in that behalf alonecan  form the basis of the imposition of the  penalty  underthe proviso.  This position is not disputed before us.The appellant contends that the proviso is attracted to	 thepresent	 case because the first respondent  has	 contravenedthe conditions and restrictions imposed by the proviso to r.19,  whereas  the  first respondent  argues  that  a  properconstruction  of  this latter proviso does not	justify	 theappellant's plea.  It would thus- be seen that the  decisionof  the	 preliminary point raised by  the  first  respondentinvolves  the  narrow question of the  construction  of	 theproviso to r. 19.Before construing the said proviso it is, however, necessaryto  refer to s. 33 of the Act.	This section was enacted  onApril  4,1951, but it has been expressly made  retrospectiveas  from January 26, 1950.  Therefore at the  material	timethis  section  must  be deemed to have	been  in  operation.Section33(1)(a)(i)provides  that  notwithstanding   anythingcontained in the Act a tax on the sale or purchase of  goodsshall  not  be imposed under the Act where such	 a  sale  orpurchase  takes place outside the State of  Bihar.   Section33(2)  makes the explanation to cl. (1) of Art. 286  of	 theConstitution applicable for the interpretation of subcl. (i)of  cl. (a) of sub-s. (1).  It is common ground that if	 therelevant  provision just cited is construed in the light  ofthe decision of this Court in the case of the United  Motors(1)  there  can	 be no doubt that the sales  which  are	 thesubject-matter	 of  the  present  proceedings	consist	  oftransactions on which a tax cannot be imposed under the Act.That is why the appellant strongly relies on this  provisionand  contends  that in construing the proviso to r.  19	 thetrue  legal  position  in respect  of  the  transactions  inquestion must be borne in mind.Let  us	 now  read the proviso to r.  19.   Rule  19  itselfprescribes the procedure which has to be followed by(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 1069.			    341a registered dealer in realising any amount by way of tax onsale of goods from purchasers.	This procedure refers to theissue  of  a cash memo or a bill as prescribed by  it.	 Theproviso	 to  this  Rule lays down that	no  such  registereddealer	shall  realise any amount by way of tax	 at  a	ratehigher than the rate, at which he is liable to pay tax underthe  Act, or realise any amount by way of tax in respect  ofsuch part of his turnover as is allowed to be deducted	fromhis  gross  turnover for the determination  of	his  taxableturnover under the Act or these Rules.	The appellant relieson  the latter part of the proviso and argues that the	partof the turnover of the first respondent which is in questionfell within s. 33(1)(a)(1) and as such was not liable to  betaxed.	 That  being so there was no justification  for	 thefirst  respondent to collect any amount by way of  tax	fromhis  purchasers	 under s. 14A.	The scheme of S. 14A  is  topermit the registered dealer to collect such amounts of	 taxfrom  his purchasers as he in his turn is liable to  pay  tothe appellant.	Authority to collect such tax amounts  givento the registered dealer inevitably postulates his liabilityto  pay	 a similar amount to the appellant.   Therefore	 theconduct of the first respondent in collecting amounts by wayof  tax	 from his purchasers amounts to a breach of  s.	 14Aitself.It  is also contended that having regard to the	 -provisionsof s. 33(1)(a)(i) the first respondent was entitled to claima  deduction of the transations in question from  his  grossturnover  under	 the latter part of the	 proviso,  and	thatclearly means the first part of the said proviso applies  tohis  case  and	it prohibited him from	realising  the	saidamounts.  His conduct in collecting the amounts,  therefore,constitutes  a	breach of the conditions  specified  in	 theproviso to r. 19.In appreciating the validity of these arguments it would  berelevant  to  remember that at the material time  there	 wasconsiderable confusion in the minds of the public as well asthe State authorities about the true scope and effect of theprovisions  of Art. 286(1) of the Constitution.	 It  is	 notdisputed  that during the material period and in  the  yearspreceding it registered44342dealers	 used  to pay tax in respect of	 transactions  whichwere really not liable to be taxed under     s.	 33(1)(a)(i)and such tax was being received by the	appellant.  In fact,as  we have already pointed out	 s. 14 of the Act imposes  aliability on the registered dealer to furnish along with hisreturn a receipt for the payment of the tax which is payableunder  the  return.  Such payments were made  by  registereddealers	  in  respect  of  similar  transactions  and	wereaccepted.  It is an accident that the assessment proceedingsof the first respondent were actually taken up for  decisionby the second respondent after the decision of this Court inthe  case of the United Motors (1).  If the  question  aboutthe  first respondent's liability to pay the tax  under	 theAct  had been decided before the date of the  said  decisionthere  is no doubt that he would have been required  to	 paythe  tax  for the transactions in question.   Indeed  it  iscommon ground that the notification issued for the  materialperiod levied a tax at three pies on the goods in question "if the sales tax authority is satisfied that the goods	havebeen despatched by or on behalf of the dealer to any  personoutside	 the  Province	of  Bihar."  This  notification	  isconsistent  with the definition of the word " sale "  as  itthen stood.  It is thus clear that at the material time	 theappellant  thought that transactions like those in  questionin the present appeal were liable to pay the tax at the rateof  three pies as prescribed by the  relevant  notification;the  registered dealers also had no doubt on the point;	 andso  taxes were collected in respect of such transactions  bythe  appellant	from  the  registered  dealers	and  by	 theregistered dealers in their turn from their purchasers.Nevertheless, after the enactment of s. 33 the legal fictionabout  the retrospective operation of the said section	mustbe given effect to and in construing the proviso to r. 19 itmust  be  assumed  that the transactions  in  question	wereoutside	 the  scope of the Act and no tax  could  have	beenimposed in respect of them.  Construing the proviso on	thisassumption,  can it be said that in respect of the  part  ofthe first respondent's(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 1069.			    343turnover  which	 is in question a  deduction  was  allowablewithin	the  meaning of the proviso?  In  our  opinion	thisquestion  cannot  be answered in favour	 of  the  appellant.Rule  19 itself was framed in 1949 and has not been  amendedsubsequent to the enactment of s. 33.  As it was framed	 itsreference  to the allowable deductions was clearly based  onthe provisions of ss. 6, 7 and 8 of the Act.  This  positionwould  be  clear beyond all doubt if we	 read  the  materialwords in the proviso in the light of the explanation to s. 5of the Act.  The explanation in terms enumerates  deductionswhich have to be made in determining the taxable turnover ofthe  'registered dealer and it is to these deductions  whichare  allowable	under the three sections  specified  in	 theexplanation to which the latter part of the proviso to r. 19refers.	  A claim for the exclusion of a part of  the  firstrespondent's  turnover	on the strength	 of  s.	 33(1)(a)(i)cannot,	 therefore,  be said to be  an	allowable  deductionunder the proviso.This question can be considered from another point of  view.The  provisions which allow deductions to be made  or  grantexemptions  in	respect of  certain  transactions  obviouslypostulate  that	 but for them the transactions	in  questionwould  be  liable to. tax under the Act; and  so  when	suchtransactions  are  included  in the  return  the  registereddealer is allowed to claim appropriate deductions in respectof them.  But, the position with regard to s. 33 is entirelydifferent ; transactions which attract the provisions of thesaid  section are in substance outside the scope of the	 Actand  no tax can be imposed on them at all.  If that  be	 thetrue position the claim which can be made by the  registereddealer	in  respect of such transactions cannot	 in  law  beregarded  as a claim for allowable deductions or  exemptionsproperly so-called; it is really a claim that the Act itselfdoes not apply to the said transactions.  Therefore, in	 ouropinion	 it  would be straining the language of	 the  secondpart  of the proviso to r. 19 to hold that the	transactionsin question fell within its purview.There is one more point to be considered in this connection.Form VI which has been prescribed for344making	the returns under s. 12 requires the gross  turnoverto be mentioned at the outset, and then it   provides	 forthe different deductions allowable under     the Act.	Thisform  was prescribed in 1949 and has not been amended  afterthe addition of s. 33 to the  Act.  On looking at this	formit seems difficult to	 entertain  the	 argument  that	 theclaim  for  the	 total	exclusion  of  the  transactions  inquestion can be made under any of the headings prescribed inthe  form.  The appellant, however, contends that the  firstitem of gross turnover means the whole of the gross turnoverwhich  must include all sale transactions whether they	tookplace  within  Bihar or outside it, and in support  of	thisargument reliance is placed on the definition of "  turnover" contained in s. 2(1).	 If the whole of the gross  turnoverhas to be mentioned under item 1, it is urged, the claim forthe  exclusion of the transactions in question can  well  beadjusted  under	 one  or the other of  the  deduction  itemsprescribed in the form.	 We are not inclined to accept	thisargument.   The form as it has been prescribed construed  inthe  light of the material provisions contained in ss. 6,  7and  8	does not support the case that	in  prescribing	 itsseveral items it was intended that the transactions  failingunder  s.  33 should be first shown under item	1  and	thenexcluded  under one or the other of the remaining  items  ofdeduction.  Besides it may be relevant to point out that theheading	 of Chapter VII which deals with the  submission  ofreturns by dealers is " return of taxable turnover " and  itis arguable that the gross turnover mentioned in Form VI maymean  "gross taxable turnover " and not the  gross  turnoverincluding  the transactions which are outside the  scope  ofthe Act.Then  as to the argument about the contravention of  s.	 14Aitself it is difficult to appreciate how any provision of s.14A  can  be  said to have  been  contravened.	Section	 14Aconsists  of two parts both of which are put in	 a  negativeform.  The second part with which we are concerned in effectmeans  nothing more than this, that a registered dealer	 canmake  collections of such tax only as is payable by  him  inaccordance with the restrictions and conditions as may be			    345prescribed.   If the argument is that the  first  respondentwas  not liable to pay any tax and as such was not  entitledto  make any corresponding collection, then  the  collectionmade  by  him  may  fall outside s.  14A  and  be  otherwiseunjustified  or	 improper;  but it does not  amount  to	 thecontravention  of any provision of s. 14A as such.  In	facts.  14A	 itself refers to the  restrictions  and  conditionswhich may be prescribed and, as we have already seen,  theseconditions  and restrictions are prescribed by the Rules  ingeneral	 and by r. 19 in particular.  So the argument  urgedunder s. 14A takes us back to the question as to whether theproviso to r. 19 has been contravened.	In dealing with thisquestion  we  cannot  ignore  the  fact	 that  the  relevantprovisions which fall to be construed in the present  appealimpose	a serious penalty on the registered dealer, and	 so,even  if  the  view for which  the  appellant  contends	 mayperhaps	 be a possible view, we see no reason why the  otherview  for  which  the first respondent	contends  and  whichappears to us to be more reasonable should not be  accepted.In  the result we hold that the proviso to s. 14A cannot  beinvoked	 against  the first respondent and so the  order  offorfeiture  passed against him by the second  respondent  isunjustified and illegal.In view of this conclusion it is unnecessary to consider theobjections  raised  by	the  first  respondent	against	 thevalidity  of the proviso on the ground that  it	 contravenesArts.	20(1)  and  31(2)  of  the  Constitution.   We	 mayincidentally  add  that during the course of  the  argumentsbefore us we have also heard all the learned counsel on	 thequestion  as  to whether the said  proviso  contravenes	 theprovisions of Art. 19(1)(f) as well.The result is the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.The  decision of this appeal governs Civil Appeals Nos.	 546of  1958 and 115 of 1959.  They also fail and are  dismissedwith costs.Appeal dismissed.			    346