PETITIONER:THE COMMISSIONER OF EXCESS PROFITS TAX,	 WEST BENGAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE RUBY GENERAL INSURANCE CO.	LTD.DATE OF JUDGMENT:24/04/1957BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.KAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1957 AIR  669		  1957 SCR 1002ACT:  Excess  Profits Tax--Insurance company--Premium  receipts-Reserve	 for  unexpired risks on  pending  Policies--Whether"accruing  liability"--Whether could be deducted as a  debt-Excess Profits Tax Act, 1940 (XV of 1940), ss. 4, 6, rr.  1,2 of Sch.  II--Indian Income--tax Act, 1922 (XI Of 1922), s.1O(7), r. 6 of the Sch.HEADNOTE:   The	respondent  was a company carrying  on	life,  fire,marine and general insurance business, and the question	 fordetermination  related to the assessment of  excess  profitstax  on	 its income other than life insurance.	 The  methodadopted	 by  the  company with	respect	 to  fire  insurancepolicies  was that while the premiums received were  all  ofthem included in the assets of the year, a portion  thereof,40 per cent., was treated as reserve for unexpired risks  onthe  outstanding  policies, and shown as a  liability.	 Theappellant, the Commissioner for Excess Profits Tax,  claimedthat  the sum set apart as reserve for unexpired  risks	 wasliable	to be deducted under r. 2 of Sch.  II of the  ExcessProfits	 Tax Act, 1940, from out of the capital employed  inbusiness  for that year.  The respondent, while	 maintainingthat  all the premiums received must be treated	 as  capitalunder  r.  1  of Sch.  II to the  Act,	contended  that	 theprovision   for	 unexpired  risks  was	only  a	  contingentliability and that a liability under a contract of insurancewhere  under risk had not materialised could not be held  tobe a debt and was therefore not an accruing liability withinr.   2 of Sch.	II to the Act.  Held,	 that  the  reserve liability  for  unexpired  risk,unlike	borrowed money and debts, cannot be treated as	partof the real trading assets of the business so as to have  aneffect	on  the running of the business or  the	 earning  ofprofits,  and  consequently,  as it cannot  be	included  ascapital	 under	r. i, it cannot be deducted as	an  accruingliability within r. 2 of Sch.  II of the Excess Profits	 TaxAct, 1940.  Sun  Insurance  0Office  v. Clark,  (1912)  A.C.  443	 andSouthern  Railway  of Peru Ltd. v. Owen, (1956) 2  All	E.R.728, distinguished. Northern  Aluminium  Co., Ltd. v.  Inland  Revenue  Commis-sioners,   (1946)   All	  E.R.	546   and   Inland   RevenueCommissioners v. Northern Aluminium Co. Ltd. (1947) 1 All E.R. 608, relied on.1003JUDGMENT:     CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.  12  of1955.  Appeal  from the judgment and decree dated  September	 10,1953,  of the Calcutta High Court (Original Side) in  I.  T.Reference No. 8 of 1947.C.   K.	 Daphtary, Solicitor-General for India, G. N.  Joshiand B. H. Dhebar, for the appellant.K.   P. Khaitan, Rameshwar Nath, S. N. Andley and J.   B.Dadachanji, for the respondents.  1957.	 April 24.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyVENKATARAMA  AIYAR  J.-This  appeal  raises  a	question  ofimportance  as	to  whether amounts shown  by  an  insurancecompany as reserves for unexpired risks on pending  policiesare  liable  to be deducted under r. 2 of Sch.	 II  to	 theExcess Profits Tax Act (XV of 1940) hereinafter referred  toas the Act.  The respondent is a company carrying on life, fire, marineand  general  insurance business, and  the  present  disputerelates	 to  the  assessment of excess profits	tax  on	 itsincome	from  business	other than life	 insurance  for	 thechargeable accounting periods ending December 31, 1940,	 andDecember 31, 1941.  To appreciate the contentions raised, itis  necessary to state that the policies of  insurance	withwhich  these  proceedings are concerned,  are,	unlike	lifeinsurance  policies, issued in general for short periods  orad hoc in relation to a specified voyage or event.  To	takethe  most important of them, fire insurance  policies,	theyare  issued  normally  for one year, and the  whole  of	 thepremium	 due  thereon  is received  when  the  policies	 areactually issued.  In any given year, while the premiums	 dueon the policies would have been received in full, the  riskscovered by them would have run only in part and a, part willbe  outstanding	 for the next year.  The companies  have  toprepare annual statements of profit and loss for the purposeof   ascertaining  their  profits  and	distributing   theirdividends.  They have also to prepare revenue statements  tobe  sent  to  the authorities under the	 provisions  of	 theInsurance Act, 1938.  The method1004adopted by the respondent in preparing the above  statementshas  been that while the premiums received are all  of	themincluded  in the assets of the year, a	certain	 proportion'thereof, usually 40 per cent., is treated as the reserve forunexpired risks, and that is shown as a liability.  To	takea  concrete  example,  if in the year  1939  the  respondentissued annual fire insurance policies and received a sum  ofRs.  1,00,000 as premiums thereof, the whole of it would  beshown  as income in the statement for the year 1939,  and  asum  of Rs. 40,000 will be shown as a reserve for  unexpiredrisks.	In the profit and loss statement, the former will beshown as part of the assets and the latter as liability, andit  is	only the balance that will be included	in  the	 netprofits.  In 1940, the policies issued in 1939 would all  ofthem  have  expired,  and the sum of  Rs.  40,000  shown  asreserve	 in 1939 would be treated as -part of the assets  in1940.	There will, of course, be fresh policies  issued  in1940,  and  in	the statement of  that	year,  the  premiumsreceived  on  those policies would be shown as part  of	 theincome,	 and  40  per cent. thereof would be  set  apart  asreserve	 for  unexpired	 risks.	 This'	method	of  account-keeping is what is 'usually adopted by insurance  companies,and  is	 in  accordance with  well-recognised  and  approvedpractice of accountancy.Now,  the  question  is whether in  the	 illustration  givenabove,	the sum of Rs. 40,000 which is set apart in 1939  asreserve	 for unexpired risks is liable to be deducted  underr. 2 of Sch.  II to the Act from out of the capital employedin  business for that year, which would, of course,  includethe  whole  of	Rs.  1,00,000  received	 as  premiums.	 Thecontention  of	the appellant is that if  all  the  premiumsreceived  are to be treated as capital under r. 1, Sch.	 11,then  the sums which represent the outstanding liability  inrespect	 of  the  unexpired period of  the  policies-in	 theillustration given above, Rs. 40,000-should be deducted as aliability  under  r. 2 of Sch.	II.  The  respondent,  whileclaiming that all the premiums received mu-,it be treated ascapital,  maintains that the provision for  unexpired  risksis- a contingent liability, and that that1005is  not within r. 2 of Sch.  II.  The Tribunal	decided	 thequestion  against the respondent, but on reference under  s.66(1)  of the Indian Income-tax Act read with s. 21  of	 theAct,  the  High	 Court of  Calcutta  answered  the  questionadversely to the appellant, but granted a certificate  unders. 66-A, and that is how the appeal comes before us. The  relevant	statutory  provisions may  now	be  noticed.Under  s.  4 of the Act, the charge is on the  "  amount  bywhich  the profits during any chargeable  accounting  periodexceed	the  standard  profits ". I  Standard  profits'	 aredefined	 in  s.	 6, sub-s. (1), and  the  respondent  havingexercised his option under the second proviso thereto,	theyhave to be calculated "by applying the statutory  percentageto  the average amount of capital employed in  the  businessduring such chargeable accounting period Schedule II  enactsrules for the determination of the average capital employed.Under  r. 1(c), the capital employed will include the  valueof all assets "I when they became assets of the business  ".Rule 2(1) enacts that any borrowed money and debts shall  bededucted  from out of the value of the assets.	There  is  afurther provision in r. 2(1), which is what is material	 forthe purposes of the present appeal, and it runs as follows:  "  The  debts	 to be deducted under  this  sub-rule  shallinclude any such sums in respect of accruing liabilities  asare  allowable as a deduction in computing profits  for	 thepurposes of excess profits tax ; and the said sums shall  bededucted notwithstanding that they have not become payable."  For  this clause to apply, two conditions must  be  satis-fied.	The  sums to be deducted should be  allowable  as  adeduction  in computing the profits for the purposes of	 theAct,  and  further  they should be in  respect	of  accruingliabilities.  Rule 1 of Sch.  1 enacts that,"   The	 profits  of  a	 business   ..........	 during	 anychargeable  accounting period ....... shall, subject to	 theprovisions  of this Schedule, be computed on the  principleson  which  the profits of a business are  computed  for	 thepurposes of income-tax under s. 10 of the Indian  Income-taxAct, 1922."1006Section 10(7) of the Indian Income-tax Act provides that,"  Notwithstanding  anything to the  contrary  contained  insections  8, 9, 10, 12 or 18, the profits and gains  of	 anybusiness  of insurance and the tax payable thereon shall  becomputed  in  accordance  with the rules  contained  in	 theSchedule to this Act."Rule 6 of the Schedule provides:   "The profits and gains of any business of insurance otherthan life insurance shall be taken to be the balance of	 theprofits	 disclosed by the annual accounts, copies  of  whichare required under the Insurance Act, 1938, to be  furnishedto the Controller of Insurance after adjusting such  balanceso  as	to  exclude  from  it  any  expenditure	 other	thanexpenditure which may under the provisions of section 10  ofthis  Act be allowed for in computing the profits and  gainsof a business."  It  is common ground that the statements furnished to	 theController  of Insurance by the respondent for the  relevantperiods	 did disclose 40 per cent. of the premiums  receivedas  reserve for unexpired risks on the outstanding  policiesand  that  the same has been treated as a liability  in	 itsprofits and loss statements and allowed in the assessment ofincome-tax.   Thus, one of the conditions required by  r.  2has  been  satisfied.	The whole  controversy	between	 theparties	 relates to the other condition whether the  reserveof  40	per  cent. can be regarded as a sum  in	 respect  ofaccruing liability.  The contention of the learned SolicitorGeneral is that it must be so regarded, and his argument  insupport of it may thus be stated: A contract of insurance iscomplete  as soon as the policy is issued.  From that  time,the  risk begins to attach to it, and there is	a  liabilityincurred.  Rule 2 does not require that the liability shouldhave actually accrued; it is sufficient that it is accruing.Liability under a policy must be held to be accruing so longas the policy is in force, because it can ripen into  actualliability  at any time during the life of the policy on	 thehappening -of the specified event.  When the assessee  showsa certain amount as the value of that1007liability,-it  is a sum in respect of an accruing  liabilityand must be deducted under r. 2.In support of this contention, the decision in Sun InsuranceOffice	v. Clark (1) was relied on.  The facts of that	casewere  as  follows: A fire insurance company which  had	beenfollowing the practice of entering in its annual  statements40  per cent. of the total premium receipts as	reserve	 forunexpired   risks  claimed  a  deduction  therefor  in	 theassessment of its annual profits.  The validity of the claimhaving	been disputed, the question as to its  admissibilitywas  referred  to the decision of the court.  Bray  J.,	 whoheard  the  reference, held that the  amounts  reserved	 forunexpired  risks  should be deducted firstly on	 the  groundthat  the premium which had been paid in respect of  a	riskfor  a	whole  year could not be said to  have	been  whollyearned,	 when a portion of the period covered by the  policywas  still  to run, and that the reserve therefore  was	 notincome	earned, and secondly and in the alternative, on	 theground that as the premium had been received burdened with aliability  which had been only partially discharged  in	 theyear  of  account,  the	 portion  of  the  liability   stilloutstanding should be valued on the analogy of unpaid  pricedue  in	 respect of property purchased and included  in	 thetrading assets.	 This decision was taken in appeal, and	 wasreversed by the Court of Appeal, the learned Judges  holdingthat though the reasoning of Bray J. was sound, the questionwas  concluded against the assessee by the decision  of	 theHouse  of  Lords  in  The General  Accident  Fire  and	LifeAssurance  Corporation	v. McGowan (2 ). The  case  came  onfurther	 appeal before the House of Lords which agreed	withBray J.that the deduction was admissible, and  distinguishedthe decision in The General Accident Fire and Life AssuranceCorporation  v. McGowan (2 ) as one turning on the facts  ofthat  case and as not laying down that, as a matter of	law,the  deduction could not be made.  Lord Haldane	 stated	 theground of his decision thus: ".. ......  the case is analogous to one in which if  goodsare bought their value cannot be treated as(1) [1912] A.C. 443; 6 T.C. 59.	  (2) (1908) 5 T.C. 308.1008profit	without deducting the value of the liability to	 payfor  them  which the buyer has	incurred."  Lord  Alverstoneexpressed the reasoning on which he based his conclusion  asfollows:     "Premiums	are not profits or gains, they are  receiptswhich  must be brought into account and out of which,  afterproper deduction for losses, profits will accrue."Lord  Atkinson also rested his decision on the same  ground,and observed:  " That case (Gresham Life Assurance Society v. Styles) (1)clearly	 decided that the receipts of a business are not  inthemselves profit and gains within the meaning of the IncomeTax  Acts,  but that it is what remains	 of  those  receiptsafter there has been deducted from them the cost of  earningthem  which constitute the taxable profits and	gains.	 Nowwhat  is the service which a Fire Insurance Company  rendersto each insurer in consideration for the premium it receives?   It	is only, by rendering this service in each  case  itearns these receipts.  The service consists in	indemnifyingthe  insurer against loss by fire during the continuance  ofhis  policy.........  Yet until that time  has	expired	 theservice	 for  which the Company has been paid has  not	beencompletely performed.  If the accounts of the Company are tobe rendered before the date of expiry, then some division ofthe  premium  must  be	made,  and  the	 proportion  to	  beappropriated  to  the  service	which  is  to  be  performedthereafter.   I	 think the  description	 'unearned  premium'which  has  been used to describe this latter portion  is  avery appropriate and accurate description." It  is	 also material to note that one of  the	 authoritiesrelied	on for the Crown was the decision in Scottish  Unionand  National  Insurance  Company  V.  Smiles  (2)  wherein,discussing  how	 the  reserve for  unexpired  risk  in	firepolicies  is to be dealt with in computing the profits,	 theLord President observed:  "  Seeing that fire insurance policies are  contracts	 forone year only, the premiums received for the year(1) [1892] A.C. 3o9.  (2) [1889] 2 T.C. 551.1009of  assessment, or on an average of three  years,  deductinglosses by fire during the same period and ordinary expenses,may  be	 fairly taken as profits and gains  of	the  Companywithout taking into account or making any allowance for	 thebalance	 of  annual  risks  unexpired  at  the	end  of	 thefinancial  year	 of the Company." Referring to this  and  toanother decision, Lord Haldane observed that they " are not,when  carefully examined in the light of what appears to  bethe   true  principle,	reliable  as  authorities  for	 theproposition which would run counter to the practice and goodsense of the commercial community."  On  the  strength of the observations	 quoted	 above,	 theargument has been advanced by the learned  Solicitor-Generalthat  the  obligation which an insurance  company  contractswhen  it issues a policy is to be treated, in computing	 itsprofits	 for  the purposes of taxation, as  a  liability  inpraesenti.   Mr.  K.  P. Khaitan, learned  counsel  for	 therespondent, disputes the correctness of this contention.  Heargues	that whatever the position under the English law,  acontract  of  insurance	 is under the  Indian  Contract	 Actmerely a contingent contract, that until the event specifiedin  the policy happens, there is no  enforceable  liability,and  that  accordingly unexpired risks in  pending  policiescannot	be treated as present liabilities.  He also urges  afurther contention based on the history of the enactment  ofr. 2 of Sch.  II to the Act.  That rule as originally passedmentioned only borrowed money and debts, and it was by s. 10of  the	 Excess Profits Tax (Amendment) Act (XLII  of  1940)that  accruing	liabilities were brought within	 that  rule.And  when  they	 were  brought in,  they  did  not  come  assomething  independent of and distinct from  borrowed  moneyand  debts.  They came in under a provision,  which  enactedthat  the debts to be deducted under the rule included	sumsin  respect  of	 accruing  liabilities.	  Relying  on	thiscircumstance,  counsel	for  the  respondent  contends	thathowever	 liberally the expression " accruing  liabilities  "might  be construed, it cannot be interpreted so as to	takein liabilities which do not bear the character of debts, andthat a liability under a contract of1301010insurance  where under risk had not materialised, cannot  beheld  to  be  a	 debt, and  is	therefore  not	an  accruingliability within the rule.  In support of this position,  herelies on the decisions in Webb v. Stenton (1) and Israelsonv.   Dawson  (Port  of	Manchester  Insurance	Co.,   Ltd.,Garnishees) (2).  In  Webb  v. Stenton (1), the question was whether  a	 sumwhich was payable to the judgment-debtor under a trust	deedbut which had not become due could be attached in the  handsof the trustees as a debt owing or accruing within 0. 45, R.2  of  the English Rules of Practice.  In  holding  that  itcould not be, Lindley L.J. observed:   "  I	 should say, apart from any authority, that  a	debtlegal  or  equitable can be attached whether it	 be  a	debtowing or accruing; but it must be debt, and a debt is a	 sumof money which is now payable or will become payable in	 thefuture	by  reason  of	a  present  obligation,	 debitum  inpraesenti,   solvendum	 in  futuro.   An   accruing   debt,therefore,  is a debt not yet actually payable, but  a	debtwhich is represented by an existing obligation."  Israelson  v.	 Dawson (Port of Manchester  Insurance	Co.,Ltd.,  Garnishees) (2) was again a decision on 0. 45, R.  2,the Court holding that the amount which became payable undera  policy  as the result of the accident  specified  thereinhaving occurred was, nevertheless, not a debt which could beattached  under this rule, before the compensation had	beendetermined   by	 the  arbitrator  in  accordance  with	 theconditions of the policy.  The  argument	 of  the  respondent  based  on	 the   abovedecisions  is  that until the risk specified in	 the  policymaterialises  and,  consequent	thereon,  the	compensationpayable	  thereunder  is  ascertained,	there  is   only   acontingent liability and not a debt, and that such liabilityis  not within r. 2 of Sch.  II to the Act.  In answer,	 thelearned Solicitor-General contends that the decisions quotedabove  are  not	 in  point, they  having  been	given  on  adifferent statute, that the decision in(1) (1883) 11 Q.B.D. 518, 527.	 (2) [1933] 1 K.B. 301.1011Sun  Insurance	Office	v. Clark(1)  which  dealt  with	 thequestion of assessment for purposes of taxation was directlyapplicable, and that according to that decision, the amountsreserved  for  unexpired risks would be sums in	 respect  ofaccruing liabilities.That  a contract of insurance is a contingent contract	doesnot admit of argument.	That is so under s. 31 of the IndianContract  Act, and that is also the law in England where  itis   termed  "	conditional  contract".	 (Vide	Pollock	  onContracts,  13th  Edn.,	 p. 222).   This,  however,  is	 notmaterial for the purpose of the present discussion which  ishow  such contracts are to be dealt with in  assessing,	 thetaxable	 profits of an insurance company.  That is a  matterwhich  must  be determined on the provisions of	 the  taxingstatutes  and  their  application to the  facts	 found	withreference  to the particular assessment.  And it is in	thisview that the decision in Sun Insurance Office v. Clark	 (1)becomes important.  Now, what is the ratio of this decision?The  law  is well settled that a liability which  is  purelycontingent cannot be allowed as a deduction in computing theprofits of a business.	And in holding that unexpired  risksin  respect  of	 pending policies  could  be  estimated	 anddeducted  out  of the gross premium receipts, the  House  ofLords must be held to have decided that the obligation of aninsurer under such risks was a liability in praesenti.  Reference  might be made in this connection to the  recentdecision  of the House of Lords in Southern Railway of	PeruLtd.  v. Owen (2).  There, the appellant Company operated  arailway	 in  Peru under a statutory scheme under  which	 itsemployees  were	 entitled  to receive from  it	a  lump	 sumpayment	 on  retirement,  death	 or  other  termination	  ofservice.  The Company claimed that it was entitled to  valuethis liability in accordance with "accountancy practice" andto  deduct  the same from out of its  annual  profits.	 Andsupport	 for this contention was sought in the	decision  inSun Insurance Office v. Clark (1).  In rejecting this  claimit  was observed by the House of Lords that the	 accountancyvaluation was not necessarily the correct(1) [1912] A.C. 443; 6 T.C. 59.	  (2) [1956] 2 All E.R. 728.1012valuation  for	purposes of income-tax, and  that  the	realpoint for decision was whether the claim was to be  regardedas  an -essential charge against the trade  receipts  duringthe year.  In distinguishing the decision -in Sun  InsuranceOffice	v.  Clark  (1),	 Lord  Oaksey  made  the   followingobservations, which are pertinent to the present discussion:  "  Reliance  was  placed,  during  the  argument,  on	 SunInsurance Office v. Clark (1), in which this House held thata  percentage of the premium income of an insurance  companymight  be deferred as a receipt to a future year because  itwas  paid  as consideration for future	liability,  but	 theprinciple of that decision is not, in my opinion, applicableto  the present case.  The premium income was only  deferredand  would  suffer  tax in a future year,  whereas,  in	 thepresent	 case,	if  the appellant  is  permitted  to  deductcompensation,  Which it has not paid and which it may  neverhave  to pay, that compensation will escape tax	 altogether.There is, in my opinion, a fundamental distinction between acontingent   liability	 and  a	 payment  dependent   on   acontingency.   When  a debt is not paid at the	time  it  isincurred  its  payment	is, of	course,	 contingent  on	 thesolvency of the debtor but the liability is not	 contingent.Similarly,  the liability in Sun Insurance Office  v.  Clark(1) was not, in my opinion, contingent but remained in forcethroughout  the period of the insurance, though	 payment  inpursuance of that liability might, or might not, have to  bemade."  The decision in Sun Insurance Office v. Clark (1) and	 theobservations  in Southern Railway of Peru, Ltd.	 v.  Owen(1)quoted above do support the contention of the appellant thatin  computing  the  profits  of	 an  insurance	company	 forpurposes  of  income-tax,  the unexpired  risks	 are  to  betreated as a present liability.  But  even so, on the footing that r. 6 in the Schedule  tothe  Indian Income-tax Act has adopted the law as laid	downin  Sun Insurance Office v. Clark (1), the  question  still,remains	 whether unexpired risk in an outstanding policy  isan  accruing liability within r. 2 of Sch.  II to  the	Act.It is contended for the(1) [1912] A.C. 443: 6 T.C. 59.	  (2) [1956] 2 All E.R. 728.1013appellant that if that liability is a present liability	 forpurposes  of assessing the taxable profits for	purposes  ofincome-tax,  it must logically be the same for	purposes  ofexcess profits tax, and must therefore be deducted under  r.2  of Sch.  II to the Act.  That would be so, if the  schemeand framework of the Excess Profits Tax Act were the same asthose  of  the Income. tax Act.	 But the fact  is  that	 theExcess	Profits Tax Act differs, in material  respects	fromthe  Income-tax	 Act, and the principles applicable  in	 theassessment  of profits under s. 10 of the  latter  enactmentcannot	 necessarily  be  held	to  be	applicable  in	 theascertainment  of the capital employed under rr.1 and  2  ofSch.   II  to  the former Act.	The  object  of	 the  ExcessProfits	 Tax Act is to tax profits of a business  when	theyoverflow a certain level.  That level is determined thus:  Acertain,period	called	the standard period  is	 taken;	 thecapital invested and the profits made in the business duringthat  year  are ascertained, and the  standard	profits	 areworked	out  in relation to those two  factors.	  Then,	 thecapital actually employed in business during the  chargeableaccounting  period  is ascertained.  If the capital  is	 thesame as that employed in the standard period, then there  isno  further  problem; but if it is more, then  the  standardprofits	 are increased, and if it is less, they are  reducedpro  tanto.   Thus, the whole scheme of the Act	 is  to	 taxprofits	 above	a certain level, and that  level  will	moveupwards or downwards as the capital employed may be more  orless.	It  is	this  that  constitutes	 the  distinguishingfeature	 of  the  Excess  Profits Tax Act,  and	 it  is	 thedetermination  of the capital actually employed in  businessthat  forms one of the most important and arduous  tasks  inthe ascertainment of taxable profits under the Act.  Rule 1 of Sch.  II to the Act enumerates three  categoriesof  properties, which are to be included in the	 computationof capital.  It is to be noted that this rule does not adoptany legalistic or conventional notion of what is technicallytermed	'capital';  but it proceeds on a  factual  basis  toinclude	 whatever  is utilised in business, :whether  it  betangible property or intangible1014property.  The object of the provision is clearly to  confera benefit on the assessee by enabling him to retain at leastin  part  the  profits realised by  him	 by    investment ofadditional capital.  Then there is r. 2, which provides	 forcertain deductions being made out of capital.  Omitting	 forthe  present "accruing liabilities", which form the  subjectof  the present controversy, the other two  items  mentionedtherein	 are borrowed money and debts, and the	reasons	 fortheir  exclusion  from	capital falling within	r.  1  wouldappear to be this: Money borrowed and debts incurred for thepurpose	 of the business must have been utilised in it,	 andwould  be included in the capital employed as defined in  r.1.  The	 policy of the law being to give some relief  to  anassessee who invests additional capital in his business, thereason of it requires that that should be limited to capitalcontributed by the assessee himself.  Otherwise, the benefitintended to be given to him might be abused, and the  objectof  the	 legislation defeated by large scale  employment  ofborrowed capital.  Borrowed money and debt are therefore  tobe deducted out of what is capital within r. 1.   We  now  come to the expression  "accruing  liabilities".What does it precisely import ? To decide that, we must haveregard	to the scope and purpose of rr. 1 and 2 of Sch.	  IIto the Act and to the context and setting of the expression.It  has been already pointed out that the object of the	 Actis to tax profits which overflow a certain line indicated bywhat  is termed " standard profits ", that the	location  ofthat line varies with the capital employed, that the  schemeof r. I is on a factual basis to treat as capital all assetstangible and intangible which are thrown into a business andcontribute  to	the  earning  of  profits  and	to   excludetherefrom  under  r. 2 that part of it which came  in  as  aresult of borrowing.  Now, obviously. a deduction under r. 2can only relate to what is capital under r. 1, and that mustbe a really profit-earning asset, whether tangible or  not-.Borrowed  money to be deducted under r. 2 is money  borrowedfor the purpose of the business, and which has gone to swellthe capital under r.	 1.  That  is also the	position  asregards debts.	And1015accruing  liabilities which are liable to be deducted  underr.  2 must also be of the same character as  borrowed  moneyand debts with which they are associated on the principle ofnoscitur a sociis.  They must be such as can be said to havebeen utilised in the business and formed part of the  reallyeffective  trading assets during the  chargeable  accountingperiod.  If that is the correct approach, as we conceive it is, thequestion  to  be  considered is neither, on  the  one  hand,whether the liability amounts in law to a debt-for if it  iscapable of being utilised in business and is so utilised, itwill  fall  under  r.  2, even though  it  is  not  strictlyspeaking  a  debt; nor, on the other hand, whether it  is  aliability  which has been treated as one for the purpose  ofassessing  income-tax.	 In assessing income  from  businessunder  s.  10 of the Income-tax Act, what is  allowed  as  adeduction  is any liability incurred solely and	 exclusivelyfor  the  purpose  of the business, and when  that  has	 notmatured, its value is to be determined according to rules ofaccountancy  and deducted.  But when a deduction is  claimedunder r. 2, what has to be seen is whether the obligation issuch  that  it	could be regarded as an asset  used  in	 thebusiness,  such	 as  could  conceivably	 contribute  to	 itsprofits.   If  that is not established, then  it  cannot  beincluded  as  capital  under r. 1, and	cannot	be  deductedtherefrom  under r. 2 as an accruing liability.	  It  shouldnot  be	 overlooked  that a deduction under  s.	 10  of	 theIncome-tax  Act	 and that under r. 2 of Sch. 11 to  the	 Actproceed	 on  totally  different	 lines	and  have  differentobjects	 in view.  Under s. 10, the deduction is claimed  bythe  assessee,	and that has the effect,  when	allowed,  ofreducing the taxable profits.  Under r. 2, it is claimed  bythe  department,  and  if  allowed,  it	 will  enhance	 theliability  of the assessee by reducing the capital under  r.1.  Incidentally, how inappropriate the principle laid	downin  Sun	 Insurance  Office v. Clark (1) would be  if  it  isapplied for determining the question of capital employed  inbusiness  for the purpose of Excess Profits Tax Act will  beseen from(1)  [1912] A.C. 443 ; 6 T.C. 59.1016the  fact  that	 one of the grounds on	which  the  decisiontherein	 was  based was that 40 per cent.  of  the  premiumsreceived  and set apart as reserve for unexpired  risks	 wasunearned  income,  and could not therefore  be	regarded  asprofits	 for the purpose of the Act.  If that were the	trueposition under the Excess Profits Tax Act, then the  reservecould  not be included in the capital of the business,	and,indeed, that was one of the contentions urged by the learnedSolicitor-General.  But that was not the stand taken by	 thedepartment before the Tribunal and that is directly  opposedto  the plain language of r. I of Sch.	II, under which	 allthe  premiums  thrown  into the business  would	 be  capitalemployed in the business.  That clearly shows how unsafe  itwill be to adopt the principles laid down for the purpose ofassessing  business  profits under the Income-tax Act  to  adetermination of the question of the capital employed  underthe Excess Profits Tax Act.  In  this  view,  is the reserve  for	unexpired  risks  an"accruing liability " within r. -2 ?  The decision in.	 SunInsurance Office v. Clark(1) that it should be allowed as  adeduction was based on two grounds.  One was that it  shouldbe  regarded  as " unearned income ", and  for	the  reasonsalready stated, it cannot avail when the question is one  ofdetermining  capital under the Act.  And the other was	thatthe  reserve represents a liability in the nature of  unpaidprice of property included in the trading assets.  But apartfrom the fact that we have to strain the analogy in applyingit  to the present situation, can that liability be held  tobe  of the character contemplated by r. 2 ? Can it  be	saidthat the reserve for unexpired risk was, like borrowed moneyand debt, part of the real trading assets of the business  ?The  answer  must clearly be in the negative.	The  reserveliability could not factually be said to have contributed tothe  running of the business or the earning of profits.	  Itwas some. thing in the air, and could have had no effect  inthe working of the concern, during the chargeable accountingperiod.	  It cannot therefore be held to be an	is  accruingliability " within r. 2 of Sch. 11 to the Act.(1)  [1912] A.C. 443; 6 T.C. 59.1017A  case	 very  much in point is	 the  decision	in  NorthernAluminium  Co.	Ltd.  v.  Inland  Revenue  Commissioners(1).There,	the question arose whether a  conditional  liabilityunder  a contract was an " accruing liability "	 within	 thecorresponding  provision in the English Excess	Profits	 TaxAct.  The facts were that on December 16, 1939, an agreementwas entered into between the Ministry of Aircraft Productionand  a company engaged in manufacturing	 aluminium  productsand  supplying	them to manufacturers of  aircraft  for	 theGovernment,  wherein it was provided that the  prices  whichthe  latter  was then charging to its  customers  should  bereduced	 for the period July 1, 1939, to June 30, 1940,	 andthat the amount by which the prices paid to the company werein  excess  of	the reduced prices should  be  paid  by	 thecompany	 to  the Ministry.  The agreement  further  providedthat negotiations should be started not later than June	 30,1940,  for  determining	 the rates to  be  charged  for	 theperiods	 following  June 30, 1940.  The	 agreement  was,  infact, concluded only on October 12, 1942, whereby the pricesto be charged by the company were fixed for the years  1941,1942  and  1943.  In accordance with the  agreement  enteredinto  on  October  12, 1942, a sum of  pound  2,743,469	 wasrepaid	by  the company to the Ministry in  1943  being	 thedifference between the price paid by the customers and	thatfixed in the agreement.	 This amount was actually allowed asa  deduction  in the assessment of the business	 income	 forpurposes  of  income-tax,  and the dispute  related  to	 thequestion  whether  it  could be deducted  in  assessing	 theexcess profits tax as an "accruing liability" of the companyfor the chargeable accounting period which was January 1  toDecember 31, 1941.  It was held by the Court of Appeal	thatthere was, in fact, no agreement between the parties  duringthe  chargeable	 accounting period, and	 that  therefore  noliability  was	incurred.  In the alternative, it  was	heldthat even if the agreement dated December 16, 1939, could beconstrued  as amounting to a conditional agreement  for	 theperiod	subsequent to June 30, 1940, the obligation  createdthereby could not be(1)  [1946] 1 All E.R. 546, 554.1018regarded  as  an  accruing  liability  within  the  rule  inquestion.  Lord Greene M.R. stated the reason thus:"  A  purely  conditional liability, which may	or  may	 notmature,	 is  not one which falls within that  language,	 forthis reason: Quite apart from the actual words, it would  becontrary  to the whole conception underlying  these  capitalprovisions because a purely conditional liability, which mayor  may	 not  eventuate,  is not a  thing  which  affects  acompany's  capital  position, any more	than  a	 conditionalreceipt	 can affect its capital position.  A  receipt  whichmay or may not be received, according as some event does  ordoes  not  happen, is not a thing with which  you  can	earnprofits.   It is the possibility of earning profits on	yourreal  capital  that these capital provisions  are  concernedwith.	Therefore,  in my opinion, even if one	could  spellsuch  a hypothetical and conditional contract out  of  thesewords,	the  result  would  not give  rise  to	an  accruingliability within the meaning of the section.  "   This	 decision was taken in appeal to the House of  Lordsand  was  affirmed.  Vide Inland  Revenue  Commissioners  v.Northern Aluminium Co. Ltd. (1).This decision establishes that a conditional liability undera  concluded contract-it is on that footing that the  secondpoint  arose for decision-was not an accruing liability	 forthe purposes of the Excess Profits Tax Act, as the same	 hadno effect on the actual capital position of the company, andthe fact that it was allowed for purposes of income-tax	 didnot  affect the position under the Excess Profits  Tax	Act.The  learned  Solicitor-General sought to  distinguish	thisdecision  on  the  ground  that it  did	 not  relate  to  aninsurance  business,  whereas  it  was	contended  that	 SunInsurance  Office  v.  Clark (2 ) directly  dealt  with	 thequestion  now  under  consideration  whether  reserves	 forunexpired  risks in pending policies were liabilities  whichcould  be  deducted.   We  do  not  see	 how  it  makes	 anydifference  in the construction of r. 2 of Sch.	 II  to	 theAct that the liability sought to be deducted arises under aninsurance policy and not under some other contract.(1) [1947] 1 All E.R. 608.  (2) [1912] A.C. 443; 6 T.C. 59,1019We are of opinion that the principles laid down in  NorthernAluminium Co., Ltd. v. Inland Revenue Commissioners (1)	 andInland Revenue Commissioners v. Northern Aluminium Co., Ltd.(2 ) are applicable to the decision of the present case, andthat a contingent liability in respect of unexpired risk  isnot  an "accruing liability" within r. 2 of Sch.  II to	 theAct.The decision appealed from is correct, and this appeal	mustaccordingly be dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.