PETITIONER:AL. PR.	 RANGANATHAN CHETTIAR	Vs.RESPONDENT:AL. PR.	 AL.  PERIAKARUPPAN CHETTIAR(and connected appeal)DATE OF JUDGMENT:24/05/1957BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.MENON, P. GOVINDACITATION: 1957 AIR  815		  1958 SCR  218ACT:Will-Constyuction-Disposition  to adopted  son,	 R--Adoptioninvalid-Whether R takes Property as persona designata. Deed-Construction-Trust,   Whether	created-Language   of	deedambiguous-Subsequent conduct of Parties-Burden of proof.HEADNOTE:P adopted A in 1914 but on account of the acute	 differenceswhich arose between them later, he made a second adoption ofthe  first  appellant in 1926 on the footing  that  such  anadoption  was  permitted by special  custom  in	 NattukottaiChetti	families.   In	the partition suit filed  by  A	 forhimself	  and  on  behalf  of  his  minor  son,	 the   firstrespondent,   the  validity  of	 the  second  adoption	 waschallenged,  but  the matter was compromised by	 a  Rajinamaunder which P was directed to pay the plaintiffs therein Rs.75,000 each separately in lieu of their right to  partition.Under  the  terms of para 3 of the Rajinama  and  the  hundiexecuted by P in favour of the first respondent, the  amountwas  to	 be paid to the order of three	persons,  viz.,	 thefather	and  mother of the first respondent and C,  and	 theamount	itself was to be invested in the name of  the  firstrespondent in Chetti firms to the order of P and C who	wereto  be in management.  In 1929 P executed a will whereby  hemade arrangements for certain religious gifts and  charitiesand  gave  the residue of the property to his wife  for	 herlife  and  thereafter to his second adopted son,  the  firstappellant.    On  attaining  majority  in  1943	 the   firstrespondent  filed two suits.  The first was on	the  footingthat  the amount of Rs. 75,000 which was given to him  underthe Rajinama was constituted a trust for his benefit  duringhis  minority  under the trusteeship of P and  C,  that	 themoney  was  wrongfully appropriated by C,  contrary  to	 theterms of the Rajinama, and that P as a co-trustee with C wasequally	 responsible  for C's breach of trust and  that	 thefirst respondent was entitled to have the amount paid out ofthe estate of P in the hands of the appellants.	 The  secondsuit  was for the recovery of the entire properties of P  onthe ground that the second adoption was invalid and that thewill  executed by P was ineffective.  It was found that	 theadoption  of  the first appellant was invalid and  that	 thecustomary adoption set up by P was made for temporal  ratherthan  spiritual	 purposes,  and the  question  was  whether,notwithstanding his description as adopted son in, the	willin several places, the intention was that he was to take theproperty as Persona designata.	As regards the terms of para3 of the215Rajinama the language used was ambiguous, whether the  powerof investment was vested in both P and C, but looking at thesubsequent conduct of the parties it was found that it was Cwho was authorised to collect the amount of the hundi and toarrange for the investment of the same on the responsibilityof the father and mother of the first respondent.Held:(1)  The question whether a disposition to a person  isintended as a Persona designata or by reason of his  fillingparticular  legal  status  which turns out  to	be  invalid,depends	 on  the  facts of the case and	 the  terms  of	 theparticular  document containing the disposition, and in	 theinstant	 case,	in  view of the	 exclusion  of	the  validlyadopted son and his heirs from succession and the conduct ofthe  parties  for  over	 14  years  in	allowing  the  firstappellant to retain the property, taking an overall  pictureof the various provisions of the will, it was clear that thefirst  appellant  was intended by the testator to  take	 theproperty  as  persona  designata  and  that  the  will	 wastherefore effective to convey title to him.Nidhoomoni Debya v. Saroda Pershad Mookerjee, (1876) L.R.  3I.A.  253  and Fanindra Deb Raikat v. Rajeswar	Das,  (1884)L.R. 12 I.A. 72, referred to.(2)Trusteeship	is  a position which is to be imputed  to  aperson	on  clear  and conclusive evidence  of	transfer  ofownership and of the liability attached to such ownership onaccount of confidence reposed, and on such liability  havingbeen  accepted	by the alleged trustee, and in	the  presentcase  there  was no proof that P became a  trustee  for	 theminor's fund and incurred liability for C's breach of trust.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 104 of 1954and 169 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and decree  datedNovember 13, 1950, of the Madras High Court in A. S. No. 484of  1947  arising  out	of the	judgment  and  decree  datedDecember  21, 1946, of the Court of the	 Subordinate  Judge,Devakottai in Original Suit No. 156 of 1944 and Appeal	fromthe judgment and decree dated September 17, 1952 and October24,  1952, of the Madras High Court in A.S. No. 243 of	1947arising out of the judgment and decree dated December 21, inOriginal  Suit No. 164 of the Subordinate Judge,  Devakottaiin Original Suit No. 164.A.V.  Vishwanatha  Sastri  and M. S. K.	 Aiyangar,  for	 theappellants in C.A. No. 104 of 1954.216A.V.  Vishwanatha  Sastri  and	U. S.  K.  Sastri,  for	 theappellants in C.A. No. 169 of 1956.K.S.  Krishnaswamy  Iyengar  and  R.  Ganapathy	 Iyer,	 forrespondent No. 1 (in both the appeals).1957.	May  24.  The judgment of Jagannadhadas	 and  B.  P.Sinha JJ. was delivered by Jagannadhadas J. Govinda Menon J.delivered a separate judgment.JAGANNADHADAS J.-These two are appeals against two  separatedecrees	 of  the High Court of Madras arising,	out  of	 twosuits as between the same contesting parties with  referenceto  a connected set of facts.  Civil Appeal No. 104 of	1954is  before  us by virtue of special leave  granted  by	thisCourt  under Art. 136(1) of the Constitution.  Civil  AppealNo. 169 of 1956 has come up by reason of certificate grantedby the High Court under Art. 133(1)(a) of the  Constitution.The  parties to the litigation are Nattukottai	Chetties,  awealthy	 banking community in South India who, at the  time,were  having large banking transactions in Burma  and  otherplaces	in  South-East	Asia.  One  AL.	  PR.  PeriakaruppanChettiar (hereinafter referred to as Periakaruppa) owned andpossessed considerable properties.  He adopted one AL.	 PR.Alaska	Chettiar (hereinafter, referred to as Alaska) in  orabout the year 1914.  'there arose acute differences betweenthem from about the year 1924 owing to the alleged  wastefulhabits of Alagappa who ran into debts.	This led to criminalcomplaints  between them, each against the other,  in  1926.(See  Exs.   P-5  and D-12).  One  of  Alagappa's  creditorsobtained  a decree against him and attached Alagappa's	halfshare in the family residential house including the site  onwhich  it was situated.	 This resulted in a regular suit  inwhich  the  question  at  issue was  whether  the  site	 wasancestral   site   and	whether	 the   super-structure	 wasconstructed  out of the ancestral funds.  It was found	thatthe  site  was ancestral Periakaruppa  maintained  that	 thesuper-	structure  which was substantial in  value  comparedwith  the site was built out of his self-acquired funds	 andwas  not  joint	 family property,  while  Alagappa  and	 theattaching217creditor contended to the contrary.  The litigation went  upto the High Court and the High Court accepted the contentionof  Periakaruppa  and made a declaration that the  site	 wasancestral  and	that  the  super-structure  was	 the   self-acquisition of Periakaruppa.  The judgment of the High Courtwas dated November 19, 1926, and is reported in	  Periakarappanv. Arunachalam (1).  During the pendency of this  litigationin  the High Court the adopted son Alagappa filed a suit  onSeptember 9, 1926, on behalf of himself and his minor son byname AL.  PR.  AL.  Periakaruppan Chettiar (hereinafter, fordistinction, referred to as junior Periakaruppa) representedby  his mother and next friend by name Mutbayi Act.  It	 hasto be mentioned that in or about June 27, 1926, Periakaruppapurported to make a second adoption of a 'young boy by	nameAL.   PR.  Ranganathan Chettiar (hereinafter referred to  asRanganatha)  on	 the  footing  that  such  an  adoption	 waspermitted by special custom in Nattukottai Chetti  families.The  suit  O.S. No. 114 of 1926 filed by  Alagappa  and	 hisminor  son,  junior  Periakaruppa, was	therefore  filed  asagainst Periakaruppa and his second adopted son	 Ranganatha,who at the time was also a minor.  It was for delivery of  ahalf  share of the properties of the family on	the  footingthat all the properties were joint family properties and fora  declaration	that the second adoption was  invalid.	 Thefirst  defendant  therein, Periakaruppa,-  filed  a  writtenstatement  contesting both these matters and  claiming	thatall  the  suit properties in their entirety were  his  self-acquisition and that the plaintiffs had absolutely no rightstherein	 and  also asserting that the  second  adoption	 wasvalid.	Before the suit proceeded to the stage of issues andtrial, the dispute between the parties was compromised by  aRajinama  brought about by four Panchayatdars, who were	 allrespectable  members  of the Nattukottai  Chetti  community.Some  of  the questions that arise in  the  present  appealscentre round the proper construction of some of the terms ofthis.	Rajinama,  which  will	be  noticed  later.   It  issufficient to state at this stage that by that Rajinama	 thetwo plaintiffs, Alagappa and his(1)  (1926) I.L.R. 50 Mad. 582,28218minor son, junior Periakaruppa, obtained Rs. 75,000 each andAlagappa's  wife Muthayi Achi, the mother of the  minor	 sonand  his  next friend in the suit, was to get a sum  of	 Rs.14,000 as her Stridhan, These amounts were paid by means  offour  hundis,  Rs. 25,000 and Rs. 50,000 for  Alagappa,	 Rs.75,000	for  junior  Periakaruppa and  Rs.  14,000  for	 themother,	 Muthayi  Achi,	 on Nattukottai	 Chetti	 bankers  ofPeriakaruppa  in Burma.	 It was one of the express terms  ofthe Rajinama that all the properties mentioned in the plaintin  that  suit and other properties belonging to  the  firstdefendant,  Periakaruppa,  were	 admitted to  be  his  self-acquisitions  and that the plaintiffs therein had. no  rightand connection whatsoever in any of them or in the charitiesfounded	 by  Periakaruppa and in  the  properties  belongingthereto	 or  their  management, either in  the	lifetime  ofPeriakaruppa or subsequent thereto.  It was also one of	 thespecific  terms of the Rajinama that the  plaintiffs  shouldremove	themselves  from  the family house  with  all  theirbelongings and that the possession of the aforesaid house bedelivered to Periakaruppa.  It was also expressly stipulatedthat  the petition then pending for leave to appeal  to	 thePrivy Council against the judgment reported in Periakaruppanv. Arunachalam (1) was to be withdrawn.	 This compromise wascertified  to  be  for the benefit of  the  minor  plaintiffconcerned, as also of the minor defendant Ranganatha and wasaccepted by the Subordinate Judge before whom the compromisepetition  was  filed.	As  a  result,	the  compromise	 wasaccepted  by the court on August 15, 1927, and the suit	 wasdismissed  in terms thereof on the same date.  About a	yearand  a half later Periakaruppa executed a will on  April  4,1929.  The genuineness and due execution thereof are not  inquestion.   But the effect of that will is also one  of	 themain  points  in  dispute.  Periakaruppa  died	about  threemonths	later  i.e. on July 14, 1929, and his  wife  LakshmiAchi  died within a year thereof on March 11, 1930.  By	 thewill,  broadly speaking, Periakaruppa made arrangements	 forcertain religious gifts and(1)  (1926) I.L.R. 50 Mad. 582.219charities  and made arrangements for the management  thereofand  gave  the residue of the property to his  wife  LakshmiAchi  for her life and thereafter to his second adopted	 sonRanganatha.  Ranganatha, who, some time in or about the dateof  Lakshmi Achi's death in 1930, appears to  have  attainedmajority, has been in undisputed possession and enjoyment ofPeriakaruppa's	properties  ever since till  late  in  1944.Alagappa's  son	 junior Periakaruppa  attained	majority  inDecember, 1943, and filed two suits on November 11, 1944, inthe Subordinate Judge's Court of Devakottai, one numbered asO.S.  156 of 1944 and the other as O.S. 160 of	1944.	O.S.No. 156 of 1944 was on the footing that Rs. 75,000 which wasgiven to him under the above mentioned Rajinama of the	year1927,  was, under the terms thereof constituted a trust	 forhis  benefit  during his minority under the  trusteeship  ofPeriakaruppa   himself	 and  another  person	A.   P.	  S.Chockalingam Chettiar of Athangudi, (hereinafter referred toas  Chockalingam) the junior paternal uncle of	the  minor'smother,	 Muthayi  Achi,	 and  that  the	 money	was  wronglyappropriated  by  Chockalingam	owing  to  his	straightenedcircumstances.	 His  case was that Periakaruppa  as  a	 co-trustee with Chockalingam was equally responsible for breachof the trust and that therefore he was entitled to have	 themoneys	found  due  on account, paid out of  the  estate  ofPeriakaruppa in the hands of Ranganatha as well as from	 theestate of Chockalingam in the hands of his son.	 The  secondsuit  O.S. No. 164 of 1944 was a suit to recover the  entireproperties  of Periakaruppa in the possession of  Ranganathafor  himself and his father Alagappa who was made the  firstdefendant  in  the  suit, on the  ground  that	Ranganatha'sadoption  was  invalid, that the will  of  Periakaruppa	 wasineffective and that the properties devolved on himself	 andhis  father Alagappa.  It may be noticed that so far as	 thefather	Alagappa is concerned the suit would prima facie  betime-  barred since it has been filed about 15	years  afterthe   death   of   Periakaruppa.    The	  plaintiff   juniorPeriakaruppa  however filed the suit on the footing that  inview  of  his minority for all this period  until  December,1943,220the suit was not barred.  Hereinafter, for convenience,	 thefirst  suit O.S. No. 156 of 1944 will be referred to as	 thetrust suit, and the second suit O.S. No. 164 of 1944 will bereferred to as the succession suit,In  the	 succession suit the main questions that  arose	 fordecision were:(1)  whether the adoption of Ranganatha as a second  adoptedson was valid;(2)  if	 not, whether the will was effective to	 convey	 theproperty  of Periakaruppa to Ranganatha after the  death  ofhis wife Lakshmi Achi, notwithstanding the invalidity of hisadoption;(3)  whether,	in  case  the  will  was   ineffective	 theproperties of Periakaruppa devolved on both Alagappa and hisson junior Periakaruppa together or on Alagappa alone to theexclusion of junior Periakaruppa ;(4)  if-the  devolution	 was on both together,	whether	 therights of junior Periakaruppa were barred by reason of s.  7of  the Indian Limitation Act, 1908 (Act IX of 1908).	Thisinvolved the further questions:(a)  whether by and under the Rajinama Alagappa and his	 sonbecame	divided	 in  status  inter se so as  to	 make  s.  7inapplicable.(b)  whether in case the devolution was on both together  asmembers	 of  a	joint family, s. 7 had	application  to	 thefactual situation in the family.   So  far as the adoption of Ranganatha was concerned	boththe courts below, while holding that the adoption as a	factwas  proved,  have  found against existence  of	 the  custompleaded as to its validity and hence concurrently found	 theadoption  to  be invalid.  That conclusion is no  longer  indispute in this Court.	As regards the will both the  courtsheld  that  the will was ineffective to vest  any  title  inRanganatha though on slightly different grounds.  As regardsquestion  No. 4 relating to limitation, the two courts	cameto  different  conclusions with the result  that  the  trialcourt dismissed the suit as barred by limitation, while	 theHigh  Court  reversed it and granted a decree for  the	halfshare of221Periakaruppa's	properties in favour of junior	Periakaruppaholding	 that in respect of the other half share the  rightsof  Alagappa  were barred and that Ranganatha  acquired	 thesame by his adverse possession.	 As regards question No. (3)and  the subordinate questions (a) and (b) of  question	 No.(4),  there appears to have been no serious question  raisedin  the trial court by the defendant as to the exclusion  ofjunior Periakaruppa by Alagappa in the matter of  successionto  Periakaruppa's  properties,	 or  any  serious  questionsraised by the plaintiff as to the Rajinama bringing about  apartition inter se between the father Alagappa and his minorson  junior  Periakarpppa and of Alagappa not being  the  defacto  manager of the family.  It was accordingly  found  bythe  trial court that both of them succeeded as	 members  ofthe  joint  family  and that  therefore	 the  minor,  juniorPeriakaruppa, was barred by virtue of s. 7 of the LimitationAct.  When the matter came up on appeal to the High Court, aquestion  was  raised that s. 7 would not be  applicable  inthis  case  unless it was further made out that	 the  fatherAlagappa  was the de facto manager of the family  consistingof  himself and his minor son of which it is  alleged  therewas no proof or finding.  Both the Judges allowed this pointto  be	raised	and  called upon the  trial  court  to	takeevidence and submit a finding in respect of that contention.The trial court accordingly took evidence in regard  theretoand returned a finding that on the evidence, both the fatherand  the minor son were living as members of a joint  familyand that the father was in fact the de facto guardian.	Whenthe matter was rehear by the same Bench of the High Court onthe  return  of the finding, the Bench did not go  into	 thecorrectness  or otherwise of this finding, on the view	thatthis  finding was of no consequence, if it is found that  byvirtue	of  the Rajinama both the father and the  minor	 sonbecame divided inter se.  The learned Judges while realisingthat the finding was called for on the undisputed assumptionthat  the father and the son were undivided in status,	wereof  the opinion that there was nothing to prevent them	fromreopening222the same and held on a construction of the Rajinama that  itbrought	 about	divided status inter se between	 the  fatherAlagappa  and  his minor son junior Periakaruppa.-  In	thatview  they  found  s.  7  of  the  limitation  Act  had	  noapplication to the case and same to the conclusion that	 thesuccession  suit  by junior Periakaruppa was not  barred  bylimitation  in so far as it related to his own share  thoughbarred in respect of Alagappa's share.	Hence the successionsuit ended in favour of junior Periakaruppa in respect of  ahalf share of the properties left by Periakaruppa.As regards the trust suit the contentions raised were :(1)that	  under	  the	Rajinama   both	  Periakaruppa	 andChockalingam  became trustees in respect of the sum  of	 Rs.75,000	to  be invested in Chetti firms as provided  in	 theRajinama;(2)that as a fact the amount was invested with Chockalingam,one of the trustees themselves, contrary to the law;(3)that	 such investment itself constituted breach of  trustfor which Periakaruppa was also responsible.  It appeared onthe  evidence  that out of the trust amount, a	sum  of	 Rs.30,000/-  was  invested	 in  the  purchase  of	a  house  atAthangudi in South India (the place of Chocklingam) and thatAlagappa and his minor son, the junior Periakaruppa, and hisfamily have been since that purchase on July 23,1928, livingin that house.	At the trial, therefore, credit was given tothis amount as being proper investment of the trust funds inthe matter of account-taking by concession of the lawyer forjunior	Periakaruppa.  The defendant Ranganatha in  additionto contending that no trust was created, also contended thatas  a result of subsequent transactions junior	Periakaruppagot the benefit not only of the purchase of the house  abovereferred  to  but also of a mortgage executed in  favour  ofhimself	 and another by Chockalingam in 1930 for a  lakh  ofrupees of which Rs. 70,000 was his, of which he obtained thebenefit, and that therefore the alleged breach of trust mustbe  taken  to have been waived and that in any case  he	 wasentitled to have223the  mortgage document as much as the purchase of the  houseto be taken into consideration for reducing his liability inrespect	 of the alleged breach of trust.  These	 contentionswere negatived by both the courts with the result that therewas a decree against Ranganatha and his minor son in respectof half the loss occasioned by the breach of trust,  payableout of the half share of Periakaruppa's properties in  theirhands.	The result of the two judgments of the High Court inboth  the  suits was against Ranganatha and  hence  the	 twopresent appeals before us by him.   It  will  now  be convenient to take up  first  the	con-sideration  of	the succession appeal.	The  points  arisingtherein	 have  already	been  set  out	in  the	 preliminarynarration  and need no repetition.  The main  points  arguedbefore us on this appeal are-(1)The	conclusion  of	the  High Court	 that  the  will  ofPeriakaruppa  was  ineffective is erroneous  and  Ranganathatook  under the will as persona designata.   (2)	In case the  will is held to be ineffective  and  inthe  view taken by the High Court that Alagappa	 and  juniorPeriakaruppa became divided in status under the Rajinama theproperty  of  Periakaruppa  devolved  on  Alagappa  to	 theexclusion of junior Periakaruppa and hence the plaintiff hasno right to sue.    (3)The  conclusion of the High Court that  the  Rajinamabrought	 about	divided status inter se between	 the  fatherAlagappa and the minor son junior Periakaruppa is  erroneousand  hence  the	 suit is barred by virtue of  s.  7  of	 theLimitation Act.   A  few other minor points have been raised on both  sideswhich, after consideration, appeared to be unsubstantial andwe intimated our view at the hearing and it is not necessaryto  refer to and deal with them any further.  We have  heardelaborate arguments on the above three points and have givenour  careful  consideration  to them.  It  is  obvious	thathaving	regard	to  the	 course of  events  in	this  familynarrated  earlier the primary question for consideration  iswhether	 or  not the will left by Periakaruppa	has  broughtabout an effective disposition of his properties224in  favour  of Ranganatha.  It is only if  that	 has  becomeineffective  that  the other questions argued before  us  onthis  appeal as set out above arise for	 consideration.	  Inview  of  the fact that the genuineness of the will  is	 notdisputed and no question arises as to the disposing capacityof   Periakaruppa,  the	 plaintiff  in	this  case,   juniorPeriakaruppa, can succeed only if he displaces the will.  Hehas accordingly raised three contentions.1.That there is no effective dispositive clause in the will.2.That	the  disposition, if any, in  favour  of  Ranganathaunder  the will was an attempt to create an estate in  tail-male and hence invalid.3.The  disposition in favour of Ranganatha was by reason  ofand  on	 account  of,  his having  been	 considered  by	 thetestator as his duly adopted son, i.e., the validity of	 theadoption   was	 the  basis  and  the  condition   for	 thedisposition.   Since that has now been found to be  invalid,the disposition fails.Of these three questions the first two though upheld by	 thetrial court have been rejected by the High Court.  We  agreewith the reasoning of the High Court on these two points andthey  do  not call for any further  consideration.   We	 aresatisfied  that there is no substance in these	contentions.The real question that arises on a consideration of the willis  whether  the  disposition of the residue  in  favour  ofRanganatha  contained  therein	was to	him  as	 a  _personadesignata  or is dependent on his being a duly	and  validlyadopted son.For a proper appreciation of this contention on both  sides,it is necessary to set out the relevant clauses in the will."(1) I am now 68 years of age, taking into consideration thefact  that  I have been in indifferent health  for  sometimepast I have decided to make an arrangement after my lifetimein  regard to my properties and in regard to  the  charitiesestablished by me and accordingly I have executed this	willwholeheartedly.(2)All the immovable and movable properties entirely,  whichbelong to me as my own and which are225in my possession are my self-acquired properties.  Exceptingmyself no other person has any interest or right whatever inthe said properties.(3)............................................................... (4)Sometime back I took as my foster (son), Alagappan,	 sonof Nachandupatti Chidambaram Chettiar, and brought him up inmy  house  and	also got him  married.	 But  the  aforesaidAlagappan  conducted  himself in immoral ways and  had	evilintentions and further fell into bad company and after beingduped  brought into existence several documents falsely	 andcolourfully  by making it appear that he had borrowed  debtsto  the	 tune of about one lakh of rupees  and	also  causeddecrees	  to   be  passed  in  respect	of   some   of	 theabovementioned	debts and estranged my feelings	 and  becameinimical  towards  me,	and left my family  and	 was  livingseparately  for	 the  past about 10 years and  he  was	alsoliving in. his father-in-law's house.(5)Thereafter  while the aforesaid person had  instituted  asuit  O.S.  No. 114 of 1926 against me in the  Sub-Court  ofDevakotta  for his share in the properties which were in  mypossession,  some  of  our community  people  acted  as	 thepanchayatdars  and  gave an award in the above	suit  and  arazinama  was filed in the Court, and all the amounts  whichwere  payable  by  me according to the	said  razinama	werealready paid by me entirely.  Neither the aforesaid AlagappaChetti	nor  his  heirs shall have any manner  of  right  orinterest  whatever  in the properties which are	 now  in  mypossession  and	 in the properties which might	be  acquiredhereafter.(6)Subsequently I took in adoption Nachandupatti  RamanathanChettiar's  son,  namely,  Ranganathan, aged  about  17	 1/2years, and he is living with me.(7)to (12)..............................................(13)My	adopted	 son Ranganathan and his  male	heirs  shallafter the lifetime of my wife Lakshmi Achi properly  conductthe  aforesaid	charities.  In order to	 supervise  and	 seewhether Ranganathan conducts the charities properly  withoutany defect whatever, I have 29226appointed  the following persons as the	 executors,  namely,(1)  my	 son-in-law Arunachalam Chettiar, son  of  AlagapuriAlagappa  Chettiar  who	 is interested in  both	 myself	 andRanganathan,  the two sons of Kanadukathan AL.	 K.  ChandraMouli  Chettiar,  namely,  (2) Karuppan	 Chetty,  (3)  PeriaKaruppan Chetty, and (4) Murugappan, son of Konapattu Subra-manian	 Chettiar.   The  said	persons	 shall	 accordinglysupervise  (the	 performance of the charities) in  a  propermanner.  (14)	  I am entertaining a desire that I should spend  mylifetime  and die at Tiruvarur alone.  My body shall not  becremated according to our caste custom, and a samadhi (tomb)shall  be  erected for me, and a lamp shall be	lit  thereindaily and a person shall be appointed to perform Neivedhiyam(by  preparing	food) with 1/4 measure of rice	by  the	 bigmeasure daily.	Guru pooja shall be performed once a year inthe  Star  in  which  I die, by	 distributing  food  to	 themendicants,  and by spending an amount to the extent of	 Rs.250 (Rupees two hundred and fifty) every year by inviting myrelations.   A sum of Rs. 15,000 (rupees  fifteen  thousand)shall be sent for and obtained from the Saigon firm from outof my own funds for the aforesaid Tirupani (service) in	 thetemple	and  my wife shall conduct the	aforesaid  Tirupani.The  daily expenses of the Samadhi aforesaid and Guru  poojaetc.,  shall  be  met from the Patasala	 charity  funds	 andconducted.   (15)	  Apart	 from  the properties which  have  been	 setapart  for the abovementioned charities and  the  propertieswhich have to be newly purchased hereafter for the same,  asmy  adopted son Ranganathan and his male heirs have to	takeall the immovable and movable properties belonging to me andas  the	 aforesaid adopted son namely Ranganathan is  now  aminor  the said Ranganathan shall after he attains  majorityand if he is of good behaviour (take in his possession)	 theaforesaid  properties  after  my  lifetime  and	 after	 thelifetime of my wife Lakshmi Achi and enjoy them.    (16)  In case the aforesaid Ranganathan does not conducthimself properly or if my wife Lakshmi Achi227does not like, the following two persons, namely, (1) K. AS.P.  Rm.	  Ramaswami Chettiar, son  of  Athangudi  PalaniappaChettiar,  and	(2) PL.	 T. Rm.	 Ramasami Chettiar,  son  ofKaraikudi Thenappa Chettiar shall manage my properties afterthe lifetime of my wife Lakshmi Achi till Ranganathan  comesof  good behaviour.  The amount which may be found just	 forfamily	expenses  shall	 be paid till  such  time  when	 theaforesaid Ranganathan begins to conduct himself properly andwhen the properties are delivered in his possession.(17)..............................................................(18) For the expenses of the maintenance right, etc., of  mywife  Lakshmi  Achi  and  for  the  necessary  expenses	  ofpilgrimage  to	sacred places a sum of Rs.  15,000  (fifteenthousand)  dollars  has	 been credited in her  name  in	 theSaigon firm, and she shall send for and obtain the amount ofinterest alone got for the said amount every year and  spendit  according to her pleasure.	My adopted  son	 Ranganathanand his male heirs shall take the principal amount.(19)...............................................................(20)As regards the substantial tiled building which  belongsto me and which is in my own place and which I am  residing,and one bungalow building built by me in the Therodam veedhi(street in which the chariot is drawn) in the said place, mywife  shall  enjoy them after my lifetime and after  her  myadopted son Ranganathan and his male heirs shall permanentlyand for ever enjoy the said buildings.	Apart from  enjoyingthe  abovementioned two buildings, none of them	 shall	haveany right to alienate them in any manner.(21)If apart from the matters specified by me herein, it  isnecessary   that  any  documents  should  be  brought	intoexistence  after my lifetime during the lifetime of my	wiferegarding  the properties belonging to me and regarding	 thecharity properties and regarding the family maintenance fromtime  to  time	I have hereby given  authority	to  my	wifeLakshmi	 Achi  mentioned  above to  execute  such  documentsregarding228the  same.   My adopted son Ranganathan	 shall	perform	 thefuneral obsequies for myself and for my wife.(22 and 23)............................. (Sd.) A.L. P.R. Periakaruppan Chetty."In  order to understand the background of this will,  it  isnecessary to recapitulate the previous family history  whichhas  already  been adverted to at the commencement  of	thisjudgment.    That  is  as  follows.   Periakaruppa   adoptedAlagappa in or about 1914.  He apparently was a	 spendthriftin his habits and incurred many debts.	There developed ill-feeling between them which led to mutual criminal complaintsagainst each other in 1926.  One of his creditors obtained adecree	 and  attached	the  family  house.   This  led	  tolitigation  in which Periakaruppa asserted and succeeded  inestablishing  that the super-structure of the family  house,which  was  a  costly one, was	his  own  self	acquisition.During the pendency of this litigation Periakaruppa  adoptedfor the second time, Ranganatha, claiming to do so by way ofcustom	in the Nattukottai Chetti community.  This led to  asuit  for partition by Alagappa claiming all the  propertiesto be joint properties and for a declaration that the secondadoption was in valid.	This suit was at a very early  stagecompromised  on the terms that Alagappa and his son were  totake  away  as between themselves a sum of Rs.	1,50,000  incash  and  would  have no claim of any kind to	any  of	 theproperties in the possession of Periakaruppa and no claim tointerfere  in  any  manner with the  various  charities	 andreligious endowments which Periakaruppa made The  propertieswere   all   admitted  to  be	the   self-acquisitions	  ofPeriakaruppa and his right to alienate the property by	willwas specifically recognised.  Alagappa with his wife and sonwas  to	 clear	out  of the  family  house  with  all  theirbelongings.   Alagappa got his share of the cash  under	 theRajinama  by  means  of two hundis one for  Rs.	 25,000	 andanother	 for Rs. 50,000.  They were  specifically  deliveredover,  as recited in one of the terms of, the  Rajinama,  toone  Chockalingam who was made responsible to discharge	 allthe  encumbered debts so far incurred by Alagappa, from	 outof the moneys229of  those  two hundis so as to make sure that  no  liabilitywould arise out of the debts previously incurred by Alagappawhich  might  affect Periakaruppa.  It is in  evidence	thatafter this compromise Alagappa and his family consisting  ofhis  wife and son cleared out of the original  family  housebuilt  by  Periakaruppa and that they were  living  separatefrom Periakaruppa.  Periakaruppa and his second adopted	 sonRanganatha were presumably living together in that  originalfamily	house as stated in the will.  This Rajinama  was  onAugust 15, 1927, and the will was executed on April 4, 1929,i.e., a year and eight months thereafter.  It may be noticedat  this stage that the Rajinama while it admits one of	 thepoints	in controversy in suit, viz., that the	property  isself-acquired property of Periakaruppan, is silent about theother  question	 at issue, viz., as to the validity  of	 thesecond	adoption  and in fact the suit was terminated  by  aformal	dismissal thereof presumably leaving  this  disputedquestion at large.    The	 will starts with an assertion that all the  movableand  immovable	properties in his possession are  his  self-acquired  properties  and that excepting  himself  no  otherperson	has any interest or right therein.  It asserts	thatAlagappa  conducted himself in immoral ways, fell  into	 badcompany, brought into existence several false and colourabledocuments and borrowed debts to the tune of about a lakh  ofrupees	and caused decrees to be passed in some of them	 andbecame inimical towards him.  It asserts that Alagappa	lefthis family and was living separately for the past about	 tenyears.	 Notwithstanding that he was an	 undisputed  adoptedson,  he  referred  to him in the  will	 as  'Abhimanaputra'(foster-son).	 In  contrast  with  this  he  states	thatRamganatha was taken in adoption by him, that Ranganatha wasat  the time of the will about 17 1/2 years old and that  hewas  liviny with him.  Clauses 7 to 14 of the will refer  tovarious	 religious  and charitable endowments which  he	 hadmade  and  the properties which he gave to  them.   It	alsoenumerates the arrangements for their management.  By cl.  8he makes provision for the construction and maintenance of230Brahmana  Veda	Patasala attached to the temple of  Sri	 SriTheagarajaswami	 in Thiruvarur.	 Clauses 8 and 9  set  apartcertain	 properties  for  the due maintenance  of  the	saidPatasala.   Clause 10 relates to the establishment of  threecharities  in addition to the above Patasala charity, to  beconducted  and	maintained  out of the income  of  the	sameproperties as have been set apart for the Patasala  charity.In  cl. 11 he states that no person shall have any right  toalienate  or  encumber	the properties	set  apart  for	 thecharities.   By cl. 12 he appoints his wife Lakshmi Achi  asthe  manager  to  conduct  the	above  charities  after	 hislifetime.  By  el.  13	he directs  that  his  adopted	son'Ranganatha  and his male heirs shall after the	lifetime  ofhis  wife  Lakshmi  Achi  properly  conduct  the  above-saidcharities.   He	 appoints  three  persons  as  executors  tosupervise  the	management by 'Ranganatha'.  By	 cl.  14  heexpresses  a  desire to spend the rest of  his	lifetime  atThiruvarur  and die there.  He says that his body shall	 notbe  cremated according to custom but that a  samadhi  (tomb)should be erected for him and that a lamp is to be lit theredaily  and  that  a person should be  appointed	 to  performNeivedhiyam daily, of a specified quantity of rice.  By	 thesame  clause  he  also enjoins that  Guru  pooja  should  beperformed  once	 ail year in the star in which	he  dies  bydistributing  food  to the mendicants by  spending  Rs.	 250every  year.   He does not specifically indicate who  is  toperform	 the Guru pooja.  The context may well be  taken  toindicate that the paid employee was to do it.  He  indicatesthat a sum of Rs. 15,000 was set apart for the above purposein a Saigon firm and that it should be sent for and utilisedby  his	 wife  for the aforesaid  Tirupani.   This,  in	 thecontext, seems to refer to the construction of the  Samadhi.He also says that the daily expenses of the samadhi and	 theGuru pooja expenses should be met from the Patasala  charityfunds.	 Thereafter come the various provisions relating  tothe disposition of the residue of his property.	 The  effectof  these  provisions in cls. 15 and 16 is  that  after	 hislifetime his wife, Lakshmi Achi should enjoy the residue andthat thereafter the "adopted son Ranganatha" is to take them231into  his  possession  and enjoy them (after  the  death  ofhimself and his wife) on his attaining majority and if he isof  good behaviour.  It is specifically provided that  if  "the aforesaid Ranganatha " does not conduct himself properlyor  if	his  wife  Lakshmi Achi	 does  not  like  (him)	 twospecified persons, K.AS.P.Rm. Ramaswamy Chettiar and PL.  T.Rm.   Ramasami Chettiar should manage the  properties  afterthe lifetime of Lakshmi Achi till "Ranganatha" comes of goodbehaviour and that he should be paid by them just enough forhis  family  expenses -till such time  when  'the  aforesaidRanganatha' begins to conduct himself properly and that	 theproperties  are	 to be delivered into his  possession  then.Under  el. 18 the 'adopted son Ranganatha' should  take	 theprincipal  amount  of  Rs. 15,000 set  apart  for  his	wifeLakshmi	 Achi after her death.	There is also el.  20  whichprovides  that the substantial tiled building  belonging  tohim  which is in his own place and in which he was  residingand  one bungalow built by him in the Therodum	Veedhi	(CarStreet) shall be enjoyed by his wife after his own  lifetimeand that after her lifetime "his adopted son Ranganatha" andhis male heirs shall permanently and for ever enjoy the saidbuildings.   There area few other specific legacies in	cls.17  and 18 which require no notice.  The scheme of the	willis  clear,  viz., that Periakaruppa wanted his own  wife  toenjoy the properties and to manage the charities so long  asshe was alive and that the adopted son Ranganatha should  dothe  same after her death, that in respect of the  charitieshe  set	 up a committee of supervision over  his  management(but  not  in  respect of his wife's  management)  while  asrespects   enjoyment  of  the  properties  he	specificallyprovided  that the adopted son Ranganatha should  enjoy	 hisproperties  after be attains majority only if he is of	goodbehaviour  and that so long as he was not of good  behaviouror  his	 wife'	did not like him, he was to  get  only	somemaintenance  out  of the properties.  These  provisions	 arereminiscent  of his past experience with the  first  adoptedson Alagappa and are obviously inspired by the experience ofbad conduct and wasteful232ways  which he thought the first adopted son was guilty	 of.In the will he refers to "adopted son Ranganatha" in quite anumber	of  places and to "aforesaid Ranganatha "  or  to  "Ranganatha " in some places.  There is no doubt that in whatmay be taken to be the dispositive clause, el. 15, he refersto  him	 as "my adopted son Ranganatha" though in  the	nextconnected  clause,  cl. 16, he refers to him  as  ,aforesaidRanganatha  "  or  as  "  Ranganatha  ".  The  question	 forconsideration  is whether the validity of adoption  was	 thecondition for the effectiveness of these dispositions.The question as to whether a disposition in such terms is tothe  person  intended therein as a persona designata  or  byreason of his filling a particular legal status which  turnsout  to	 be invalid is one of some difficulty and  has	beenconsidered  by the courts in quite a large number of  cases,some  of  which	 have been cited before	 us.   An  elaborateconsideration	of  these  various  cases   cannot   finallydetermine  the	question that arises  in  individual  cases,which must ultimately depend on its own facts and the  termsof  the particular document containing the disposition.	  Itis  enough to refer to two cases of the Privy Council  citedbefore	 us,  viz.,  Nidhoomoni	 Debya	v.  Saroda   PershadMookerjee (1) and Fanindra Deb Raikat v. Rajeshwar Das (2 ).As  pointed out in the first case the question in  all	suchcases is whether the gift of the property by the testator toa  person who is referred to as having been adopted  is	 onewhich is dependent on whether all the requisites of a  validadoption  have	been  complied with or whether it  is  to  adesignated  person notwithstanding that it was	desired	 andexpected  that	the  requisites for a  valid  adoption	werecomplied  with.	  As pointed out by their Lordships  in	 thesecond	case  "the distinction between what  is	 descriptiononly  and what is the reason or motive of a gift or  bequestmay  often be very fine, but it is a distinction which	mustbe  drawn  from	 a consideration of  the  language  and	 thesurrounding  circumstances".  In that case  their  Lordshipsgave an illustration which is very apt for the present case.It is as follows:(1) (1876) L.R. 3 I.A. 253.(2) (1884) L.R. 12 I.A. 72, 89.233" If a man makes a bequest to his "wife A.B.", believing theperson	named  to be his lawful wife, and he  has  not	beenimposed	 upon  by her, and falsely led to  believe  that  hecould lawfully marry her, and it afterwards appears that themarriage was not lawful, it may be that the legality of	 themarriage  is  not  essential to the validity  of  the  gift.Whether the marriage was lawful or not may be considered  tomake no difference in the intention of the testator."   Now	in  the present case learned counsel  for  the	res-pondent	 very strongly relies on the repeated  reference  toRanganatha  in	the will in the dispositive clauses  as	 theadopted	 son and says that the disposition was made  in	 hisfavour by reason of the fact that he was adopted and that hewas believed to be duly and validly adopted.  He points	 outthat  Periakaruppa  was apparently a religious man  as	seenfrom the various charitable and religious endowments he	 hadmade in the will itself.  He also placed stress on the	factthat  by virtue of cl. 21 of the will, he directs  that	 hisadopted	 son shall perform the Putra krutyangal	 (ceremoniesto  be performed by a son) for-himself and his	wife  (aftertheir  respective deaths).  It is said that the	 performanceof  the various ceremonies after death by a person  who	 wasnot  a son in the eye of sastras would be abhorrent  to	 anydevout Hindu which Periakaruppa clearly appears to be.	Thiscontention  is	not without force.  But	 taking	 an  overallpicture of the provisions in the will and the background  ofthe previous history, it is not possible to say in this casethat  the  validity  of the  adoption  was  contemplated  byPeriakaruppa  as  the  condition on which  the	validity  ofdisposition  should depend.  As has been previously  pointedout  the  will has been clearly in-spired  by  his  previousexperience  with  his  first  adopted  son  Alagappa.	WhenAlagappa  did in fact challenge the validity of	 the  secondadoption in the suit which he filed and asked for a specificdeclaration in respect thereof by his plaint, that suit	 wasallowed to be merely dismissed and there was no reference tothe  validity  or otherwise of the second  adoption  in	 theRajinama.   Apparently it left the question at	large.	 Thewill having been executed only within about one 30234year  and eight months after the Rajinama in the  suit,	 thetestator  Periakaruppa must have been conscious of the	factthat the second adoption was open to serious challenge.	  Inthis context the reference to Ranganatha as the adopted	 sonin  the will as against the reference to Alagappa as a	mereAbhimanaputra  may  indicate no more than that	testator  isanxious	 to  make it quite clear that he  would	 acknowledgeRanganatha as his adopted son in preference to Alagappa	 andis indicative of his clear intention that he desires him  toget  his  properties to the exclusion of  Alagappa  and	 hisminor  son.  That her is desirous of excluding by  his	willAlagappa  and his son is apparent from his very	 categoricalstatement  in cl. 5 of the will that neither  the  aforesaidAlagappa  nor  his heirs shall have any manner of  right  orinterest  whatever in the properties which were then in	 hispossession   and  any  properties  which  may  be   acquiredthereafter.   The  will	 itself	 is,  therefore,   obviouslyintended  to exclude them from succeeding to  his  property.Being  aware  of the likelihood of the challenge as  to	 thevalidity  of  adoption	of  Ranganatha	he  could  not	haveintended the' disposition to fail in the contingency of	 thesecond	adoption being held invalid thereby letting  in	 thevery  persons whom he wanted to exclude.  The provisions  inthe  will which give the property to Ranganatha, only if  heis  of	good  behaviour	 seem rather  to  indicate  that  heattached  greater  importance to the character	of  the	 boyrather	than to his legal status as an adopted son.   It  istrue that he contemplated ceremonies to himself and his wifeafter  their  death  being  performed  by  the	adopted	 sonRanganatha.   But it is noteworthy that he chose the  courseof  having his body enshrined in a tomb after his death	 andmaking	arrangements for worship being conducted  every	 dayand Guru pooja on the day of his own annual sradh day.	Thismay  well have been felt by him to be a substitute  for	 theregular	 annual sradh by an undisputedly valid	adopted	 sonwhom  he did not like.	It is also noteworthy that there  isno indication that he contemplated the Guru pooja as  havingto be done by Ranganatha, after the death of his wife.	 Howexactly the testator viewed the second adoption of235Ranganatha  and the alleged custom enabling him	 there	untomay  well be gathered from para. 8 of his written  statementin O. S. 114 of 1926 which is as follows:   "The allegations in paragraph 11 of the plaint are false.This  defendant	 has  really  taken  in	 adoption  the	 2nddefendant.   The aforesaid adoption is valid  in  accordancewith  the custom of Nattukottai Chettiars.  There  are	manydifferences  in the matter of adoption	between	 NattukottaiChettiars  and	other caste people as stated  below.   Theircustom alone can prevail in the matter of the adoption takenby  them and neither the law nor the Sastras can bind  them.As  adoption is made among Nattukottai Chettiars  only	withthe  intention that the adopted son should render them	helpand assistance (1) those who make adoption pay money to	 theparents	 Vagaira as price for the adopted boy.	(2)  NeitherDattaka	 Chandrika or Dattaka Mimamsa can bind them. (3)  Ifone person has two wives, the two wives adopt two sons.	 (4)If  the son of a person dies leaving his widow,	 the  fathertakes  a  boy  in  adoption for	 himself,  and	the  widoweddaughter-inlaw	takes  another	boy in adoption.  (5)  If  agrandson by son is born to one person and the son dies,	 theaforesaid  person  takes  a boy in adoption  even  when	 theaforesaid  grand-son is living.	 The customs with regard  toadoption  among	 Nattukottai Chettiars are in  existence  asstated above. (6) As the aforesaid Chettiars are traders,  aperson can take in adoption another boy, if the adopted	 sonacts  against  the  will  of  the  adoptive  father  withoutimproving the property."This  seems  to indicate that in his view such	a  customaryadoption  was  made for temporal rather than  for  spiritualreasons.    Taking  an	overall	 picture  of   the   variousprovisions  in the will, it appears to be  reasonably  clearthat  Ranganatha notwithstanding his description as  adoptedson  in	 the  will in several places, was  intended  by	 thetestator to take the property as persona designata and	thatthe  will was therefore effective to convey title to him  toresidue of properties left by Periakaruppa after his death,236No  question has been raised that the condition in the	willthat  Ranganatha  is to take the property only if he  is  ofgood  conduct  and behaviour, has operated  to	prevent	 thetitle  vesting	in him and it may be doubtful whether  if  aclear  intention  of the testator can be gathered  from	 thewill,  to  bequeath  the residue to  Ranganatha	 as  personadesignata the condition of good conduct and behaviour  wouldbe valid to prevent the vesting of the title.We  have,  therefore,  come  to	 a  clear  conclusion	thatRanganatha obtained title to the properties of	Periakaruppaunder  the  will.   This is in accord with  the	 conduct  ofAlagappa  for over 14 years after the death of	Periakaruppaand  his wife, in keeping silent and allowing Ranganatha  toenjoy  the.  properties	 without laying	 any  claim  to	 theproperty on the ground of the invalidity of the will and theinvalidity  of	the  adoption,	thereby	 indicating  how  heunderstood  the	 will.	 In this view  the  other  questionsraised in this appeal do not call for consideration.This  appeal,  i.e.,  Civil  Appeal  No.  169  of  1956,  isaccordingly   allowed	with  costs   throughout   and	 theplaintiff's suit dismissed.The  questions that arise for decision in the  trust  appealmay now be taken up for consideration.	The plaintiff in thetrust  suit  also is junior Periakaruppa.  There  were	fivedefendants  in	the suit.  First and second  defendants	 areRanganatha  and his minor son.	The third defendant  is	 theson  of Chockalingam.  The fourth and fifth  defendants	 arethe  father,  Alagappa and Muthayi Achi,  mother  of  juniorPeriakaruppa.  The plaintiff's case as set out in the plaintis  that by the terms of the compromise in O.S. No.  114  of1926  on the file of the Subordinate Judge of  Devakottai  "Periakaruppa   and  Chockalingam  were	 constituted   jointtrustees for himself who was then a minor and that they wereenjoined the duty of having the amount invested from time totime  in Cheyenne firms, that the above terms were  acceptedby all the parties concerned including Periakaruppa and thatconsequently both Periakaruppa and Chockalingam accepted theposition  of  joint  trustees for  the	plaintiff  for	dulysafeguarding and improving237his  moneys."  He  alleges that	 the  "said  trustees  were,therefore, bound to see to the proper investment of the saidmoneys	in  reliable and sound Chetti firms  and  for  theiraccumulation  with accrued interest during  the	 plaintiff'sminority  and to pay the *accumulation to the  plaintiff  onhis  demand on his attaining majority." He says	 further  inthe plaint that he learned after attaining majority that theentire	 amount	  was  appropriated  by	  Chockalingam	 fordischarging  his  own  personal debts and that	he  made  itappear	as  if he had credited the trust amount in  his	 ownfirm,	that  eventually  when	his  firm  became   involved(financially) he (Chockalingam) appears to have executed  ofhis  own accord a simple mortgage dated May 3, 1930,  (i.e.,during the minority of junior Periakaruppa) of his house  atAthangudi  (in	South India) together with a small  item  ofproperty  in  Burma in favour of the plaintiff	and  anothercreditor  for a sum of Rs. 1,00,000 of which Rs. 70,000	 wasintended  to  be  the plaintiff's money and  the  other	 Rs.30,000 of the other creditor.  The plaintiff further says inhis  plaint  that  the	house which was	 the  main  item  ofsecurity  in the mortgage had no marketable value, that	 themortgage  was a one-sided affair and that he repudiates	 thesame.	 He  claims  accordingly  that	both  the   trusteesPeriakaruppa and Chockalingam were bound to render to him anaccount	 of  the trust amount and if they had  not  properlyinvested  it  they were bound to repay it to  the  plaintiffwith  interest.	 He alleges that the trustees were bound  toinvest	the amount in securities authorised by law and	thatthey  were bound to invest the moneys in sound	third  partyChetti firms.  He also alleges that Periakaruppa knew at thetime the involved circumstances of his co-trustee and eithercolluded  with	him  or failed in his duty  to	protect	 theplaintiff's  interests.	 He accordingly claims	that  Peria-karuppa jointly with Chockalingam were liable for the  grossbreach	of trust in respect of the said amount.	 He  furtheralleged that on the, death of Periakaruppa on July  14,1929,and  of	 Chookalingam in September/ October,  1934,  he	 theplaintiff was entitled to recover the amount due to him fromthe estate of Periakaruppa238in  the hands of defendant No. I and of Chockalingam in	 thehands of defendant No. 3.The  first  defendant filed, along with his  minor  son	 thesecond	 defendant,  an	 elaborate  written  statement	 thesubstance,   of	  which	 was  that  Periakaruppa   was	 notconstituted  a	trustee	 nor did he  accept  or	 assume	 theposition  of  or  acted as a trustee for  the  plaintiff  inrespect	 of  the sums mentioned in the	plaint.	  He  statesthat, on the other hand, the only persons who were competentto act on behalf of the plaintiff were his guardians or	 hisparents and the Rajinama conferred no right on	Periakaruppato override any acts done by play Dtiff's legal guardians onbehalf of the plaintiff's moneys.  It is further stated thatthere was nothing improper on the part of Chockalingam alongwith  the  plaintiff's father and mother  in  realising	 the,same  under  the  hundi  (for	Rs.  75,000  due  to  juniorPeriakaruppa)  and  handing it over to Rangoon	A.P.S.	Firm(Chockalingam's firm) for being invested.  He further statesthat  the  said	 firm  was  in	a  flourishing	and  solventcondition  then	 and during all the  time  Periakaruppa	 wasalive,	and  that  there was  absolutely  no  negligence  orimproper motive on the part of any body in entrusting to thesaid  firm for investment or in investing in the said  firm,the money realised for the said hundi drawn by Periakaruppa.It  was	 further  stated that the  first  defendant  thereinunderstood  that out of the said moneys with  Chockalingam'sfirm  a sum of Rs. 30,000 was withdrawn by the	parents	 andguardians  of the plaintiff and invested the same bona	fidein the purchase of a house for the benefit of the  plaintiffon July 23,1928, which was proved to be in the possession ofthe plaintiff and continued to be so and that the  plaintiffmust  be  taken	 to have ratified the  said  purchase.	 Thewritten statement also states that in or about the year 1930after the death of Periakaruppa there were some disturbancesin  Burma  and	that  the  parents  and	 guardians  of	 theplaintiff,  with a view to safeguard the interests  ,of	 theplaintiff  completely and effectively, wanted from the	saidChockalingam  security of landed property and thus  obtainedthe mortgage referred to in the plaint of his residential239house and bungalow at Athangudi and of the business premisesof  Chockalingam at Bogale in Burma.  The written  statementproceeds  to say that the plaintiff is bound by the acts  ofhis   parents  and  guardians  in  entering  into  such	  anarrangement made in his interest and for his benefit.  It isalso further stated that on February 17, 1936, the house andbungalow of Cbockalingam at Athangudi which was the  subjectmatter	of the mortgage above mentioned, were  purchased  incourt auction by Alagappa the father of junior	Periakaruppafor  a	small sum of Rs. 1,000 subject to the  mortgage	 andthat  this  course was adopted as a means of  realising	 theamount due to the plaintiff on the mortgage deed without thenecessity to incur any costs of a suit.	 It is thus  claimedthat  the  mortgage as well as the  subsequent	purchase  ofequity	of redemption were all transactions by Alagappa	 forthe benefit of his minor son and acting for him and that theplaintiff  is not entitled to repudiate these  transactions.The  third  defendant,	son of Chockalingam,  also  filed  awritten statement denying that there was any trusteeship  oracceptance thereof by his father, that the relations betweenthe minor represented by his mother and father on one  side,and  Chockalingam  on the other side, with whom	 the  moneyswere kept was solely one of creditor and debtor and that theminor's	 money was properly invested with  Chockalingam	 andthat  by  then he was in a flourishing condition,  that	 thehypothecation  of May 3, 1930, was more than  sufficient  tocover  the debt due and that the Properties covered  by	 themortgage  were brought to sale in court auction	 subject  tothe  mortgage and were purchased by the	 plaintiff's  fatheracting	in  his	 interest, that one  of	 the  properties  sopurchased has been resold and the sale proceeds realised  bythe   plaintiff,  that	the  other  property  is  still	  inpossession and enjoyment of the plaintiff and that thereforethere  was  no loan outstanding.  He further says  that	 theremedy, if any, of the plaintiff was against his father	 andmother and not against himself.The  suit  was	decreed	 in  the  trial	 court	by  orderingdefendants  1  to 3 to pay a sum of Rs.	 1,39,672-13-6	withinterest from out of the assets of Periakaruppa240and  Chockalingam in their hands.  Now, it does	 not  appearthat the third defendant appealed against this decree eitherto  the	 High Court or to this Court.  His  liability  underthat  decree is not, therefore, in any way affected  by	 thesubsequent proceedings on appeal to the High Court and	thisCourt and it is unnecessary to refer to him or his liabilityin what follows.The contention of the plaintiff's counsel that	Periakaruppaand  Chockalingam constituted joint trustees for the sum  ofRs. 75,000 payable to him under the compromise dated  August15,  1927,  is	one  that is founded on	 the  terms  of	 thecompromise.   It  is  necessary therefore  to  set  out	 therelevant terms thereof."1.As settled by the four Panchayatdars, viz (1)N.     AR.Arunachalam Chettiar of A. Muthupattanam, (2)	  SP.	 AR.S. Chidambaram Chettiar of Athangudi, (3)    M.T.A.M.Muthiah	 Chettiar  of Kottaiyur, and (4) RM.  AL.   AlagappaChettiar  of A. Muthupattanam directing the first  defendantto pay to the plaintiffs separately in respect of the  rightclaimed	 by  the  plaintiffs  in  the  suit  filed  by	 theplaintiffs herein for partition on the ground that they	 arealso entitled to a share in the properties mentioned in	 theplaint	in  this suit, the first defendant  has	 executed  3hundis	mentioned  hereunder  and issued on  the  29th	Ani,Prabhava (13th July 1927) in the names of the plaintiffs forRs.  1,50,000, i.e., Rs. 75,000 to the first  plaintiff	 and75,000	 to  the  second  plaintiff  with  instructions	  toseparately  pay to the aforesaid plaintiffs and	 accordinglythe  plaintiffs	 have, at any time hereafter, no  right	 andfuture	 connection  whatever  either  in   the	  propertiesmentioned  in  the  plaint in this suit,  or  in  any  otherproperty in the possession of the first defendant, or in anyproperty  that the first defendant shall hereafter  acquire.The  first  defendant alone shall, as he pleases,  enjoy  asusual  the aforesaid entire properties, as  hisself-acquiredproperties  with  all Swatantrani and right  and  powers  ofalienation  such  as gift, exchange, sale, etc.	  The  firstdefendant  has	the  right also to  alienate  the  aforesaidentire properties either by a will or otherwise.2412.   The first defendant shall for the hundis Nos.  1 and  2out of the 3 hundis for Rs. 1,50,000 mentioned in  paragraphI  herein,  pay	 the principal of Rs.  75,000  and  interestwithin Purattasi of this Prabhava year (16th October  1927).The principal of Rs. 75,000 under the remaining hundi No.  3shall  be paid within the 30th Panguni of the year  Prabhava(11th April 1928).3.   The  Sridhanam amount of Rs. 14,000 of  Muthayi  Achi.,mother	of the second plaintiff, and the second	 plaintiff'samount	of  Rs. 75,000 out of the aforesaid  amount  of	 Rs.1,50,000  under	 the  hundis, shall be	invested  in  Chettihouses	in the name of the second plaintiff to the order  ofPeriakaruppan  Chettiar,  the first defendant,	and  to	 theorder  of  A.P.S. Chockalingam Chettiar	 of  Athangudi,	 thejunior paternal uncle of the aforesaid Muthayi Achi, and theaforesaid two persons shall be in management.  The signatureletters	 and  accounts pertaining to the  aforesaid  amountsshall be with the aforesaid Chockalingam Chettiar.4 to 9..............................10.  As	 A.P.S.	 Chockalingam  Chettiar is  liable  for	 thedischarge of the encumbrances that have been created by	 thefirst  plaintiff  as mentioned in paragraph  4	herein,	 thefirst  plaintiff  Alagappa  Chettiar  has  endorsed  on	 theundermentioned first and second hundis that they are payableto the order of the aforesaid Chockalingam Chettiar and theyhave been delivered to the aforesaid Chockalingam Chettiar.It  is	therefore prayed that the Court may  be	 pleased  torecord	the  razinamah	in  the suit  and  to  dismiss	thissuit.Details of the hundis.1.   The hundi for Rs. 50,000 issued on the 29th Ani of	 theyear Prabhava (13th-July, 1927) directing Rangoon  ThamappanPL.   T.  RM.  Karuppan Chettiar to pay money  with  Rangoonnadappu interest.2.   The hundi for Rs. 25,000 issued on the 29th Ani of	 theyear  Prabhava (13th July, 1927) directing Rangoon M. A.  M.S.  Meiyappa  Chettiar	to pay money  with  Rangoon  nadappuinterest,2423.   Hundi for Rs. 75,000 issued on the 29th Ani of the yearPrabhava  (13th	 July, 1927) directing Rangoon	RM.   P.  A.Muthiah	  Chettiar  to	pay  money  with   Rangoon   nadappuinterest."The  whole  argument  for  the plaintiff  is  based  on	 theprovision contained in para 3 that the Sridhanam  amount  ofRs.  14,000 of Muthayi Achi, mother of the second  plaintiff(which,	 it  is said, has been given up by  the	 plaintiff'smother	in his favour) and the second plaintiff's amount  ofRs.  75,000 out of Rs. 1,50,000 under the hundis,  shall  beinvested  in  Chetti  houses  in  the  name  of	 the  secondplaintiff  to the order of Periakaruppa Chettiar and to	 theorder of A. P. S. Chockalingam Chettiar of Athangudi.	Thisprovision-it  is contended, shows that the money  under	 thehundi  meant  for the minor was to be  invested,  by  Peria-karuppa and Chockalingam in Chetti houses in the name of theplaintiff but to their order.  It is said that the amount soinvested  was, therefore, payable to themselves or to  theirorder  and  that they were charged with the duty  of  seeingthat  the  money was properly invested by operating  on	 theminor's	 deposit  in  their joint  names  and  changing	 theinvestments  when  found  necessary.   It  is  urged   that,therefore,  both  of them were constituted  thereby  as	 thelegal  owners  of  the	amount,	 the  beneficial   ownershipremaining  with the minor and that to this  legal  ownershipwas  attached  the  obligation	of  seeing  to	the   properinvestment of the money and the augmentation of fund by	 theaddition  of substantial interest obtainable  from  reliableChetti firms.  In order to determine whether this contentionis  correct,  it  is necessary to notice the  terms  of	 therelevant  hundi of the same date as the Rajinama.  This	 andother hundis issued by reason of the Rajinama must be  takento be part of the Rajinama inasmuch as they were referred totherein	 by  description under the heading "Details  of	 thehundis".    Learned  counsel  for  the	respondent,   juniorPeriakaruppa, urges that for this purpose it is the Rajinamaalone  that has to be looked into but not the terms  of	 thehundi.	 We  are unable to agree with this  contention.	  Wehave  no  doubt	 that  the  Rajinama  and  the	hundis	 areintegrally243one  and must be read together.	 The hundi dated August	 15,1927, for Rs. 75,000 issued by Periakaruppa for the  benefitof  junior  Periakaruppa  as  part of  the  Rajinama  is  asfollows:"Credit	 to  minor  Periakaruppa  Chetti,  son	of  AL.	 PR.Alagappa  Chetti  of  A. Muthupattanam--Debit  to  AL.	 PR.Periakaruppan Chettiar.Out  of the sum of Rs. 1,50,000 payable by me  according  tothe  razinamah entered into in 0. S. No. 114 of 1926 of	 thefile  of the Sub-Court, Devakotta, on the 29th Ani  of	thisyear  (13th  July, 1927).......................	 the  amounttowards	 your  share  for  improving  the  same	 by   makinginvestments in Chetti firms for interest in your name and tomy order and to the order of Athangudi A. P. S. ChockalingamChettiar, is Rs. 75,000.  Rangoon RM.  P. A. Muthiah  Chettishall,	on  demand,  pay money for this sum  of	 Rs.  75,000together with Rangoon nadappu interest from the 29th Ani  ofthis year (13th July, 1927) to the order of the three  viz.,(1) AL.	 PR.  Alagappa Chetti, (2) Muthayi Achi, mother	 andguardian of minor Periakaruppan Chetti, son of the aforesaidperson, and (3) A. P. S. Chockalingam Chettiar of Athangudi,and debit it in my account with endorsement of payment	madeherein.Sd.  AL.  PR.  Periakaruppan Chettiar."Now  taking para 3 of the Rajinama and this hundi  together,it  is clear that the banker of Periakaruppa one  RM.	P.A.Muthiah	 Chetti	 of Rangoon was to pay this  amount  to	 theorder  of  the three persons, Alagappa,	 Muthayi  Achi,	 andChockalingam and that the said amount was to be invested  inthe  name  of  the minor in Chetti firms  to  the  order  ofPeriakaruppa and Chockalingam.	Now it is the contention  ofthe  learned counsel for junior Periakaruppa that  the	word'order' used in both these places has the same meaning as inthe  Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, (XX VI of 188 1)	 andthat therefore what is contemplated is that the money  underthe  hundi  was	 in the first instance	payable	 by  MuthiahChetti	on whom it was drawn on the joint signatures of	 allthe three persons named in the hundi244i.e., Alagappa, Muthayi Achi and Chockalingam and that	whatis  further contemplated is the investment of that money  byPeriakaruppa and Chockalingam in Chetti firms in the name ofjunior Periakaruppa to the joint order of both of them.	  Onthis view, it is said that both these persons have the powerto draw the money so invested whenever they choose and	havethe  control of the money and in that sense have  the  legalownership of the money vested in themselves  notwithstandingthat  the  amount is invested in the name of  the  minor  toindicate his beneficiary ownership.  Learned counsel for theappellant  Ranganatha contends that this is not	 the  properinterpretation of the word ' order' as used in reference  tothe joint names of Periakaruppa and Chockalingam.  He refersus  to	certain	 cases	of  the	 Madras	 High  Court   whichrecognised  the practice of Chetti firms receiving  depositsin  the name of a particular person to the maral of  certainother person or persons and that the idea of maral is merelyto  indicate  that the change of investment was to  be	madewith  the  consent  of	the  maraldar  without	in  any	 wayaffecting  the	ownership of the person in  whose  name	 themoney  is  deposited.  According to the cases  on  which  herelies, the maraldar has no right to operate on the  accountand  withdraw the money.  It has been pointed out to  us  onthe  other side that the material word used in this  contextboth in para 3 of the Rajinama and in the hundi itself is  "order' and not maral '. It is also urged that the word maralhas  acquired  no  such settled meaning,  as  the  appellantascribes  to  it.   There are  decisions  showing  that	 thequestion  as to what the word maral means is one  that	mustdepend on the proof in each particular case of usage of thatword  by the Nattukottai Chetti firms.	This has  been	laiddown by the Privy Council in Arunachalam v. Vairavan (1) andin Muthuraman v. Periannan (2).	 In view of these  decisionsand  the  fact to which our attention has  been	 drawn	thatthere  is no pleading in this case as to the meaning of	 theword 'maral' or that the word 'order' in the context of thiscase has been used in the sense(1)  A.I.R. 1929 P.C. 254, 256.	 (2) A.I.R, 1934  Mad.	621,622.245of maral, we are not prepared to uphold the contention	thatthe  word  ' order' in this case can be	 given	the  meaningwhich is attributed to the word 'maral' in some of the caseswhich have been cited to us for the appellant.	It does not,however,  follow that the word ' order' in this case in	 itsapplication to the two persons	   Periakaruppa		 andChockalingam, is used in the sense which  it has  under	 theNegotiable Instruments,Act.   Learned	counsel	  for	 therespondent,   junior  Periakaruppa,  relies  on	 s.   13(1),Explanation  (iii),  taken  with ss. 8, 9,  and	 78  of	 theNegotiable Instruments Act.  He urges that in the case of  anegotiable  instrument the person who is indicated as the  'orderer ' (if that word may be used in this context) is	 theholder thereof and is the person who is entitled to  receivethe  amount  thereunder and to give a discharge	 in  respectthereof and that, therefore, he is virtually the legal ownerthereof.   If, as held in Krishnashet bin Ganshet Shetye  v.Hari  Valjibhatye (1), the Negotiable Instruments  Act,	 (inthe  absence of any local usage to the contrary) applies  tohundis,	 what is urged above may well be applicable  to	 themoney of the original hundi for Rs. 75,000 drawn on  MuthiahChetti	and specifically payable on demand to the  order  ofthe three persons, Alagappa, Muthayi Achi and  Chockalingam.But  the  position as regards the amount so  collected,	 andthereafter  invested in the name of junior Periakaruppa,  isnot  necessarily  the same.  It is true that para 3  of	 theRajinama  and  the narration in the relevant  hundi  clearlyshow  that  the	 amount	 of  the  hundi	 (apparently   afterrealisation  thereof) is to be invested in Chetti  firms  inthe  name of minor Periakaruppa and that such investment  isto  be to the order of both Periakaruppa  and  Chockalingam.This is obviously nothing more than a deposit in the name ofthe  minor  after  such collection.   The  investment  wouldpresumably be covered by an ordinary deposit receipt in	 thename of the minor.  A deposit receipt of that kind does	 notfall within the definition of 'negotiable instrument'  unders.  13	of  the Negotiable Instruments	Act.   There  is  noauthority for showing that such a deposit receipt is a#(1) (1895) I.L.R. 20 Bom. 488.246document to which the notions of Negotiable Instruments	 Actas to the use of the word order' and the legal	implicationsthereof	 would	be  applicable.	 On  the  other	 hand  thereappears	 to,  be authority to the contrary.  See  Sethna  v.Hemmingway(1) and In re Travancore National and Quilon	BankLtd.(1). Both these cases indicate that a deposit receipt isnot  a	negotiable  instrument.	  It is	 true  that  in	 thelanguage  of the hundi, at both places, i.e., (1) where	 thehundi  is to be cashed, and (2) at the place where the	cashso  collected  is to be invested, the same word	 'order'  isused  with reference to different sets of persons.   It	 is,therefore, suggested that they have to be understood in	 thesame  sense.  But the hundi, though intended for  the  minorand credited to him, is not drawn specifically in favour  ofthe,   minor  but  only	 to  the  order	 of  certain   namedindividuals, while the investment is to be made specificallyin  the	 name of the minor indicating that he is  the  ownerthereof.   It would be begging the question to say that	 theorderdars  in  this context are the legal  owners  and	thathence  this  indicates only his	 beneficial  ownership.	  Itappears to us reasonably clear that merely because para 3 ofthe  Rajinama and the narration in the relevant	 hundi	bothcontemplate  the  amount  of  hundi  on	 realisation  to  beinvested  in  Chetti firms in the name of the minor  to	 theorder of both Periakaruppa and Chockalinga, it does not ipsofacto  follow  as  a matter of law that	 both  of  them	 areauthorised  to	operate	 on it in the sense  that  they	 canwithdraw  the money and have the control of it in  the	sameway  as	 a person, to whose. order a bill of exchange  or  acheque	is  payable, can have.	While it is  true  that	 theappellant Ranganatha has not made out that the word  'order'is  used  in  the ,sense of the word  'maral'  and  has	 notpleaded	 or proved what maral or order in this	case  means,the plaintiff has not equally made out that the word 'order'in para 3 of the Rajinama in its application to Periakaruppaand  Chockalingam in the context, authorises them to  obtainabsolute  control of the money deposited.  But it  is  urgedthat this is implicit(1) A.I.R. 1914 BOM. 286, 287.(2) A.I.R. 1940 Mad. 157, 159.247in  the	 language of para 3 which refers to  investment	 andmanagement.  Undoubtedly under the terms of the Rajinama theamount is to be invested in Chetti firms in the name of	 thesecond	plaintiff  and	the two	 persons,  Periakaruppa	 andChockalingam,  are to be associated with the investment,  byits being designated as being to their order, whatever	thatmay mean, and they are also enjoined and associated with  itin the following terms." Iruvarghalum mel parthu varavendiyaduThis  clause which is in Tamil language has been  translatedin  the official translation as " the aforesaid two  personsshall  be  in management." Two out of us in this  Bench	 whohave  a fairly working acquaintance with Tamil language	 arenot satisfied that ' management is a correct translation forthe  word 'mel parthu '. What the clause contemplates  is  'mel parve ' which literally means 'over-seeing'.  It conveysthe  idea of ,;supervision' and does not imply the  capacityto  operate  on the deposit.  But it is suggested  that	 therelevant  clause  taken	 as  a	whole  indicates  that	bothtogether  have the power of investment and  reinvestment  asindicated by the use of the phrase in Tamil, viz.,  'koduthuvangi', which means 'giving and taking', i.e., 'lending	 andtaking	back.'	This phrase is generally  used	to  indicate'investing.'  But it is not very clear in the  structure  ofthe sentence in which this phrase occurs that it is the	 twopersons	 Periakaruppa and Chockalingam that are to  do	this'investing.' The word 'iruvarkalum' in this sentence follows'koduthu vangi' and precedes 'mel parthu varavendiyathu` andindicates rather that their joint responsibility relates  toonly  'mel  parvai' and not 'koduthu vangal'.  In  a  matterlike this, however, relating not merely to the meaning of  aparticular  word such as ' mel parthu' as above but  to	 thecontextual meaning of an entire clause in which a particularphrase like 'koduthu vangi' is used, we do not wish to	basethe decision on our own impression as to the implication  ofthat  phrase  in the context and would prefer to go  by	 theofficial English translation which is as follows;248"The  amount................  shall be	invested  in  Chettihouses in the name of the second plaintiff, to the order  ofPeriakaruppan  Chettiar,  the first defendant,	and  to	 theorder  of  A.P.S. Chockalingam Chettiar	 of  Athangudi,	 thejunior paternal uncle of the aforesaid Muthayi Achi, and theaforesaid two persons shall be in management."But even this does not indicate that the power of investmentis  vested in them but only 'mel parve' which, in our  view,has  been  wrongly translated as  'management.'	 Taking	 thewhole of this clause carefully we are not satisfied that thelanguage  clearly indicates that the power of  operating  inrespect of the deposit by way of withdrawing the amount	 andbeing  in  control  thereof is vested  in  Periakaruppa	 andChockalingam.	 All  that  the	 language   indicates	withcertainty  is that these two persons are specially  enjoinedto supervise the investments and that they are	"orderdars,"whose  meaning has not been made out.  In such an  ambiguoussituation  as  to  the, meaning of the words  used  and	 theintention of the parties thereto, it is permissible to	lookinto  and consider what the contemporaneous actings  of	 theparties	 are which may be treated as virtually part  of	 thesame transaction.The  hundi  for	 Rs.  75,000  for  the	benefit	 of   juniorPeriakaruppa dated August 15, 1927, was, according to para 2of  the	 Rajinama, payable by April 11, 1928.  There  is  anendorsement  on the hundi signed by Alagappa,  Muthayi	Achiand Chockalingam dated May 31, 1928, to the effect that	 themoney due under that hundi is to be paid to Rangoon A. P. S.Firm   (which  means  Chockalingam's  firm)  together	withinterest  thereon.  On the terms of the hundi  the  interestwas   payable  from  July  13,	1927,  on  which  date	 thePanchayatdars  appear  to  have settled	 the  terms  of	 theRajinama.  This shows that the amount was actually drawn  onthe  signatures of the three persons and was intended to  becollected by Chockalingam's firm at Rangoon.  The hundi alsobears  a  note	signed by Chockalingara's agent,  A.  P.  S.Somasundaram,  that the principal and interest of the  hundiamounting  to Rs. 80,726-15-3 was received  through  anotherbanker249named  KM.   CN.   Somasundaram	 Chetti	 as  per  letter  ofPeriakaruppa  to KM.  CN.  Somasundaram Chetti on April	 10,1928.  It is in the evidence of this A. P. S.  Somasundaram,clerk  of  Chockalingam,  who  was examined  as	 P.W.  2  oncommission, that after its withdrawal the money was in	factcredited on or about June 19, 1928, in the accounts of A. P.S.  Firm at Rangoon in the name of junior  Periakaruppa,  tothe order of (senior) Periakaruppa and Chocklingam under thedirections  of	Chockalingam.  It is the  evidence  of	thisSomasundaram  that Chockalingam directed him to	 invest	 theamount	in  Rs.	 4,000 or Rs. 5,000 in	reliable  and  soundChetti	firms, presumably meaning thereby that the idea	 wasto keep the money in the A.P.S. Firm provisionally until  hewas able to invest the money safely by distributing it	overseveral	 reliable Chetti firms in comparatively small  sums.That  this was the real intention of everybody concerned  inentrusting the money to the A.P.S. Firm is confirmed by whatis  narrated  in  Ex.  P-4, a receipt issued  in  favour  ofPeriakaruppa,  for the total sum of Rs. 75,000 collected  inrespect of the two hundies for the amounts of Rs. 50,000 andRs.  25,000  respectively, belonging to Alagappa  under	 thecompromise.   That receipt shows the collection of a sum  ofRs.  76,274-1-9 being the principal and interest of the	 twohundies, and recites also some other matters.  It ends	withthe following significant narration :"We shall obtain money for the hundi for Rs. 75,000 of minorPeriakaruppan  Chettiar	 and for the hundi  for	 Rs.  14,000credit	it  in the firm of Rangoon A.P.S. invest it  in	 ourNattukottai Chetti firms for thavani to the order of (1) AL.PR.   Periakaruppan  Chetti  of A.  Muthupattanam,  and	 (2)A.P.S.	Chockalingam  Chetti of Athangudi, and	deliver	 thecopy  of the aforesaid debit and credit account, and  copiesof the signature letters."This is signed by A.P.S. Chockalingam Chettiar as the  poweragent  of  AL.	 PR.  AL.  Alagappa  Chettiar  and  also  byMuthayi Achi for herself and for minor Periakaruppan Chetti.This narration in the receipt32250indicates  quite  clearly  that it was the  father  and	 themother	 of   the   junior  Periakaruppa   that	  took	 theresponsibility of authorising the A.P.S. firm to collect thehundi amount and of investing it in other Nattukottai Chettifirms  for  thavanai.  The intention clearly appears  to  bethat it is Chockalingam that was to collect the money on thehundi  and it was Chockalingam that was to arrange  for	 theinvestment  of	the  same (on the  legal  responsibility  ofAlagappa  and  Muthayi Achi, the natural  guardians  of	 theminor).	  This	is  exactly what is borne  out	as  to	whathappened thereafter as appears from the evidence of  Chocka-lingam's clerk, Somasundaram, P. W. 2. This seems really  toindicate that what the parties throughout intended was	thatwhile-the collection of the money under the hundi was to  beunder  the  signature  of all  the  three,  viz.,  Alagappa,Muthayi	 Achi  and  Chockalingam,  the	agency	actually  tocollect was to be the firm of Chockalingam in Rangoon and itis that firm that was to arrange for distributing the  moneyover  various other Nattukottai Chetti firms by way of	safeand good investments on the implied authority of the naturalguardians,  viz.,  the father and  mother.   This  obviouslywould  take  some time and during this	time  Chockalingam'sfirm would naturally have to be in charge of the funds.	  Itappears	  reasonably  clear,  however,	that  a	 long terminvestment   in	  Chockalingam's  firm	as  such   was	 notcontemplated.  This may be inferred from the wording in para3 of the Rajinama which says that "the signature letters andaccounts  pertaining to the aforesaid amount shall  be	withthe  aforesaid Chockalingam Chettiar.  In the  context	thisobviously means that the deposit receipt and the  periodicalaccounts  relating  to that deposit by way  of	addition  ofinterest  and  so  forth  were	to  be	in  the	 custody  ofChockalingam.	Thus Chockalingam was the  person  primarilyintended  to  collect the money and to be in charge  of	 theinvestment,  that pending final investment Chockalingam	 wasto  have temporary custody of the amount.  The point  to  benoted about this subsequent conduct of the persons concernedis that in respect of these various matters Periakaruppa251does not at all come into the picture.	The narration in thereceipt,  Ex.  P-4, which recites under the  two  signaturesthereto,  of Chockalingam as agent of Alagappa	and  MuthayiAchi as guardian, is that they undertake to obtain the moneyand invest it in Nattukottai Chetti firms for thavanai.	  Itdoes  not  indicate  that  it will be  so  invested  on	 theinstructions  or  consent also of  Periakaruppa.   Nor	doesSomasundaram,  P.W. 2, in his evidence give  any  indicationthat  the  collection by and investment	 in,  Chockalingam'sfirm   was   actually  done  under   the   instructions	  ofPeriakaruppa or that it was thereafter contemplated that  insplitting the amount into smaller sums, it would have to  beunder  instructions  of	 Periakaruppa  also.   There  is  noevidence  that	Chockalingam sent his  instructions  to	 hisclerk  Somasundaram  with  the	knowledge  and	consent	  ofPeriakaruppa  or  in  collaboration with him.	It  is	alsosignificant that the only further act of reinvestment  whichwas made during Periakaruppa's lifetime, viz., the  purchaseof a house for Rs. 30,000 at Athangudi in the name of juniorPeriakaruppa  and of which the minor is admittedly  enjoyingthe  benefit,  does  not.  appear  to  have  been  with	 theknowledge  or consent of Periakaruppa.	Thus looking at	 theactings	 of the parties concerned, there is nothing to	showthat  the  parties  understood the term in  para  3  of	 theRajinama  as  laying on Periakaruppa the  responsibility  ofactually  making  investments  and  reinvestment  for	thatpurpose to operate and withdraw the amounts from the  bankeror bankers with whom the hundi money after collection was tobe invested.Learned Judges of the High Court were greatly influenced  bythe assumption that it could not have been the intention  ofPeriakaruppa to allow a spendthrift like Alagappa to  handlethe funds of the minor for purposes of investment or  changeof investment, and that therefore it must have been intendedthat both the persons Periakaruppa and Chockalingam were  tohave  that  power  and	that this  was	what  was  meant  bydirecting  that the minor's money must be invested " to	 theorder  of Periakaruppa and Chockalingam ". It is  true	thatthe handling of the minor's funds by his252father	 Alagappa  alone  was  not  likely  to	 have	beencontemplated.	But  that  does not  necessarily  mean	thatPeriakaruppa  took upon himself the responsibility for	suchhandling either by himself or jointly with Chockalingam.  Onthe  other hand it looks as though that it was	Chockalingamthat  took  such  responsibility.   Though  not	 himself   apanchayatdar  he  must	have  helped  to  bring	 about	 thecompromise on the side of Alagappa, Muthayi Achi and  juniorPeriakaruppa.	This is indicated by his having	 signed	 theRajinama  as a witness thereto.	 The entire set- up  of	 theRajinama  and  the  subsequent actings	show  that  all	 theparties	 concerned including Periakaruppa himself  had	con-fidence	 in Chockalingam who was no other than the  paternaluncle  of  Muthayi Achi, the mother of the minor.   In	facteven  as regards the sum of Rs. 75,000/payable	to  Alagappahimself under the two hundies it was Chockalingam alone thatwas  constituted  virtually the trustee for  collecting	 thesaid  hundi amounts and paying thereout the debts which	 hadby  then been incurred by Alagappa.  This is clear from	 thefact  appearing in paras 4 and 10 of the Rajinama.  Para  10says  that  the plaintiff Alagappa has endorsed on  the	 twohundies belonging to him that they are payable to the  orderof Chockalingam and it further recites that the hundies havebeen  delivered	 to  the  aforesaid  Chockalingam.   It	  isspecifically  stated  in  that para  that  Chockalingam	 wasliable	for  the discharge of encumbrances  that  have	beencreated by the first plaintiff therein (Alagappa).  This wasreiteration  of	 what was stated in para 4 which  says	thatwhatever be the encumbrances created by the first  plaintiffin  respect of any property mentioned in the plaint  in	 thesuit,  the  aforesaid  Chockalingam  shall  discharge	themwithout	 any liability whatever to the first defendant.	  Itis clear that Periakaruppa was willing to trust	 Chocklingamcompletely even in respect of a matter which would  directlyaffect him, viz., the discharge of Alagappa's debts incurredby  way	 of  encumbrances, so as to  relieve  him  from	 allliabilities for such debts.  It is unreasonable,  therefore,to   assume   that  he	was  not  prepared  to	 leave	 theresponsibility for the collection253and  investment of the minor's funds also with	Chockalingambut  that  he undertook a joint responsibility with  him  inrespect	 of  the same.	Undoubtedly para 3 of  the  Rajinamaindicates  that the amount was to be deposited to the  orderof Periakaruppa as also Chockalingam and that both  togetherare to have 'mel parve' (supervision).	But whatever may  bethe connotation of this provision, it does not appear to us,with great respect to the learned Judges of the High  Court,reasonable  to attribute to Periakaruppa the undertaking  ofthe  responsibility of a trustee on its basis.	 Trusteeshipis  a position which is to be imputed to a person  on  clearand conclusive evidence of transfer of ownership and of	 theliability   attached  to  such	ownership  on	account	  ofconfidence  reposed,  and  on  such  liability	having	beenaccepted  by  the alleged trustee.  There is  no  clear	 andconclusive  proof  of any of these elements in	the  presentcase so far as Periakaruppa is concerned.Learned	 counsel for the respondent has also relied  upon  astatement in the affidavit of Muthayi Achi,mother of  juniorPeriakaruppa  dated  August  6,	 1927,	in  respect  of	 theapplication  for compromise the litigation on behalf of	 theminor in which it is stated as follows:"  The	first defendant (meaning Periakaruppa) has  given  ahundi  for Rs. 75,000 to my junior paternal uncle A.  P.  S.Chockalingam  Chettiar on behalf of the minor 2nd  plaintiffin  accordance with the award of the Panchayatdars.  It	 hasbeen settled that the aforesaid amount of Rs. 75,000  shouldbe  deposited in Chetti firms in the name of  the  aforesaidminor,	to the order of the 1st defendant and the  aforesaidA. P. S. Chockalingam Chettiar and improved."It is urged that when the hundi itself has been handed	overto  Chockalingam,  as  this affidavit  indicates,  the	veryproperty  belonging to the minor must be taken to have	beendelivered over to Chockalingam as one of the two persons  inwhose order the money was to be deposited and that this,  inlaw,  amounts to transfer of ownership to one, on behalf  ofboth,  with the obligation attached and that the  acceptancethereof254must  be assumed in view of the fact that the whole  of	 theRajinama  including this term was agreed to by	Periakaruppaalong with the others.	It is quite clear, however, in	thiscase  that  the mere delivery of the hundi  to	Chockalingamcannot	be  treated as itself transfer of ownership  of	 themoney which was to be collected in respect thereof.  Paras 1and 2 of the Rajinama itself are in substance as follows:"  That	 the  Panchayadars  directed  the  first   defendant(Periakaruppa) to pay to the plaintiffs a total of 1,50,000,and  that  the first defendant	accordingly  executed  threehundies	 in the names of the plaintiffs." Thus by virtue  ofthe  direction to pay, the compromise brought about  betweenPeriakaruppa   on   one	 side  and   Alagappa	and   juniorPeriakaruppa  on  the other the relationship of	 debtor	 andcreditor.  It is obvious that until the hundies are realisedthat  relation	would  continue.  There is  no	transfer  ofownership  till	 then.	(See In	 re  Beaumont,	Beaumont  v.Ewbank(1).  Further, as has already been noticed, the  hundiissued	by Periakaruppa in respect of junior  Periakaruppa'sshare  of  Rs.	75,000 was originally  issued  upon  MuthiahChettiar  of Burma but was ultimately realised	through	 oneKM.   CN.   Somasundaram  Chetti  on  a	 letter	 written  byPeriakaruppa to him.  This indicates that for some reason orother  the hundi could not be cashed on the original  bankerand  had  to be realised through another  banker.   In	thisstate  of  facts  it is not feasible to say  that  the	merehanding over to Chockalingam of the original hundi drawn  onMuthiah	 Chettiar on the date of the compromise	 itself	 (asmentioned  in the affidavit of Muthayi Achi) can be  treatedas  transfer to Chockalingam of the very property of  juniorPeriakaruppa  under the Rajinama.  The trust, therefore,  ifany,  in  respect  of that amount  must	 attach	 only  afterrealisation of the amount and by reason of the acting of theparties	 subsequent  thereto  implying	acceptance  of	 theobligations   under   the  trust.   The	  more	 fact	thatPeriakaruppa  agreed to all the terms of the  Rajinama	doesnot  constitute	 such  acceptance.   It	 is  at	 best	onlyindication  of	a  prospective willingness  to	accept.	  Asalready stated there is absolutely no evidence of an(1)  [1902] 1 Ch. 889.255actual acceptance after the hundi was cashed and the  amountwas in fact treated by Chockalingam as an investment in	 hisfirm.  Indeed even if it be assumed that Periakaruppa becamea  joint trustee with Chockalingam in respect of the  amountbelonging to the minor it does not follow that	Periakaruppawas  responsible  for  the breach of  trust  in	 this  case,committed  obviously  by  Chockalingam	only.	As   alreadystated' it appears quite clearly that collection by  Chocka-lingam of the minor's hundi and his keeping custody  thereofin  his own firm until the amount is regularly	invested  inother Chetti firms was a matter which was under the  initialcontemplation  of everybody concerned and in  particular  ofthe  father  and the mother who are his	 natural  guardians.That  this was the position as late as July, 1928, is  quiteclear	from   the   evidence	of   Chockalingam's   clerk,Somasundaram,  P.  W. 2. Periakaruppa died  in	July,  1929,about  an  year	 later.	  There	 is  absolutely	 nothing  toindicate  that 'the provisional retention of the  amount  inChockalingam's	firm  for that period, was  unreasonable  orthat  Periakaruppa  had	 any notion  that  Chockalingam	 wasfinancially  in embarrassed circumstances and that  he	madeuse  of	 the  funds.   It  is  true  that,  under  law,	 theinvestment  of	funds  by  a  trustee  with  himself   wouldconstitute breach of trust.  But before a co-trustee can  bemade liable therefor some kind of knowledge or connivance orgross negligence or the like contributing factor on his parthas got to be made out.It  may	 be that in this case the minor's  funds  have	beenfrittered   away   by  the  embarrassed	  circumstances	  ofChockalingam  in  whom	everybody  seems  to  have   reposedconfidence.   If that was in fact what happened, it  may  beunfortunate  for the minor.  But that cannot be	 any  reasonfor affecting Periakaruppa or his estate with the  liabilityfor Chockalingam's breach on an assumed construction of whatappears	 at best to be equivocal and ambiguous	language  inthe  Rajinama.	 The  burden is	 on  the  plaintiff,  juniorPeriakaruppa,  to  make	 out clearly that  by  the  RajinamaPeriakaruppa  became  a	 trustee for the  minor's  fund	 andincurred256liability therefor for his co-trustee's breach.	 At the timeof the compromise the minor was less than two years in	age.Periakaruppa  was  more	 anxious  to  get  rid	of  all	 hisliabilities arising from his son's past and wanted his son'sfamily	to clear out bag and baggage from the family  house.In  such a situation if he was anxious for the	minor  boy'swelfare to the extent of taking responsibility for his moneyon  himself though it be jointly with Chockalingam,  clearerand  decisive language was to be expected.  In	our  opinionthis  has  not	been  made out.	  Hence	 this  suit  of	 theplaintiff,   junior   Periakaruppa,  also   fails,   againstRanganatha and his minor son.The appeal is accordingly allowed and the suit is  dismissedas against defendants 1 and 2 with costs throughout.GOVINDA	 MENON	J.-I  am  in  perfect  agreement  with	 thereasoning  and conclusions contained in the judgment  of  mylearned brother B. Jagannadhadas J. in Civil Appeal No.	 169of 1956, and I agree that the appeal be allowed with costs.In  Appeal  No.	 104 of 1954,  1  have	considerable  doubtsregarding  the construction of cl. (3) of Exhibit P.  1.  IfPeriakaruppa  and Chockalingam were entrusted with the	dutyof investment, there can be no doubt whatever that they	 areconstituted   trustees.	  The  Tamil  expression   'Koduthu-Vanghi'	 clearly signifies investment, but the	question  iswho  is	 to  make  the	investment.   If  Periakaruppa	 andChockalingam have merely to supervise the investment, as theTamil expression 'Mel-Parthu' means, and not actually investthe  amount  then the view taken by my learned	brothers  isright.	 I am inclined to think that the duty of  investmentis  cast on Periakaruppa and Chockalingam, but as this is  amatter which is not free from doubt, not without hesitation,I agree with the order passed by my learned brothers.Appeals allowed.257