PETITIONER:MAHADEO	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BOMBAY(and connected petitions)DATE OF JUDGMENT:09/03/1959BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR  735		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 339 CITATOR INFO : F	    1962 SC1916	 (4,7) R	    1966 SC1637	 (8) R	    1968 SC1218	 (2) R	    1970 SC 706	 (7) D	    1976 SC1813	 (13) E&R	    1985 SC1293	 (53,112, TO 117,122)ACT:       Fundamental Rights, Violation of-Agreement with	Proprietors       for  grant of right lo pick and carry away tendu leaves	and       other   ancillary   rights-Nature   of	such	rights-Non-       Registration  of agreement-Effect-Abolition  of	Proprietary       rights in Estates, etc.-Non-recognition of the agreements by       State,  if  violates fundamental rights	-Central  Provinces       Land  Revenue Act, 1917 (Central Provinces 11 of 1917),	SS.       2(13),  47(3), 202-Madhya Pradesh Abolition of  Pro-Prietary       Rights (Estates, Mahals, Alienated Lands) Act, 1950  (Madhya       Pradesh 1 of 1951), ss. 2(6), 3, 4.HEADNOTE:Some  of  the  proprietors of the  former  State  of  MadhyaPradesh	 granted to the several petitioners rights  to	takeforest	produce,  mainly  tendu	 leaves,  from	the  forestsincluded  in  the Zamindaris belonging to  the	proprietors.The  agreements conveyed to the petitioners in	addition  tothe tendu leaves other forest produce like timber,  bamboos,etc., the soil for making bricks, and the right to build  onand  occupy land for the purpose of their  business.   Theserights were spread over many years, but in the case of a fewthe  period  during  which the agreements  were	 to  operateexpired in 1955.  Some of the agreements were registered andthe others unregistered.  After the coming into force of theMadhya	Pradesh	 Abolition of Proprietary  Rights  (Estates,Mahals,	  Alienated   Lands)  Act,  1950,   the	  Governmentdisclaimed  the agreements and auctioned the rights  afresh,acting	under s. 3 of the Act under which " all	 proprietaryrights	in an estate ......... in the area specified in	 thenotification,  vesting in a proprietor of such	estate......or  in	a person having interest in such  proprietary  rightthrough	 the proprietor, shall pass from such  proprietor-orsuch other person to and vest in the State for the  purposesof the State free of all encumbrances".The  petitioners  filed	 petitions  under  Art.	 32  of	 theConstitution of India challenging the legality of the actiontaken.	by  the	 Government on the ground  that	 it  was  aninvasion  of their fundamental rights.	They  contended	 (1)that  the Government stepped into the shoes of	the  quondamproprietors  and was bound by the agreements into which	 thelatter	had  entered, before their proprietary	rights	weretaken over by the Government, (2) that the petitioners	werenot  proprietors as defined in the Act and therefore  ss.  3and  4 of  the	Act did not apply to  them,  (3)  that	theagreements  were in essence and effect licenses	 granted  tothem to cut, gather and carry away the produce in the  shapeof340tendu  leaves,	or  lac, or timber or  wood,  (4)  that	 theagreements  granted  no 'interest in land ' or	'benefit  toarise  out of land' and that object of the agreements  couldonly be described as sale of goods as defined in the  IndianSale  of  Goods	 Act,  and (5)	that  the  interest  of	 thepetitioners  was not proprietary right but only a  right  toget goods in the shape of leaves, etc The petitioners reliedon the decision in Firm Chhotabhai jethabai Patel and Co. v.The State of Madhya Pradesh, [1953] S.C.R. 476.Held : (1) that the agreements required registration and  inthe absence of it the rights could not be entertained.Srimathi  Shantabai v. State of Bombay, [1959]	S.C.R.	265,followed.(2)that in cases where the period stipulated in the agree-ment  had expired, the only remedy, if any, was to  sue	 forbreach of contract and no writ to enforce expired agreementscould issue. ,(3)  that  on  their  true construction	 the  agreements  inquestion were not contracts of sale of goods.(4)  that  both	 under the Act in question and	the  CentralProvinces  Land Revenue Act, 1917, the forests and trees  inthe Zamindari area belonged to the proprietors and they wereitems  of  proprietary	rights.	  Consequently,	 the  rightsconveyed  to  the  petitioners	under  the  agreements	wereproprietary  rights,  which under ss. 3 and 4 of  the  Act,became vested in the State.(5)that	 assuming that the agreements -did not	amount	togrant  of  any proprietary right by the proprietors  to	 thepetitioners, the latter could have only the benefit of theirrespective contracts or licenses.  In either case, the Statehad  not, by the Act, acquired or taken possession  of	suchcontracts  or licenses and, consequently, there had been  noinfringement  of the petitioners' fundamental  rights  whichalone  could  support  a  petition  under  Art.	 32 of	theConstitution.Chhotabai  jethabai  Patel and Co. v. The  State  of  MadhyaPradesh, [1953] S.C.R. 476, not followed.Ananda	Behera v. The State of Orissa, [1955] 2 S.C.R.	gig,followed.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petitions Nos. 26 and 27 of 1954,  24and 437 of 1955, 256 of 1956, 12, 16, 17 and 73 of 1957.Petition  under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forthe enforcement of Fundamental Rights.M.S. K. Sastri, for the petitioners in Petitions Nos.  26and 27 of 54 and 24 of 1955.V.N.  Swami and M. S. K. Sastri, for the  petitioners  inPetitions Nos. 437 of 55 and 256 of 56.341L.K.  Jha,  J.	M.  Thakur,  S.	 N.  Andley  and  J.   B.Dadachanji, for the petitioner in Petition No. 12 of 1957.N.S.  Bindra  and Harbans Singh, for the  petitioners  inPetitions Nos. 16 and 17 of 1957.N.S. Bindra and Govind Saran Singh, for the petitioner inPetition No. 73 of 1957.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India,	H.J.Umrigar	 and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent  in  PetitionsNos. 26 and 27 of 1954, 24 and 437 of 1955, 256 of 1956	 and12 of 1957.M.Adhikary,  Advocate-General  for the	State  Of  MadhyaPradesh	 and I. N. Shroff, for the respondent  in  PetitionsNos. 16, 17 and 73 of 1957.1959.  March 9. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byHIDAYATULLAH,  J.-The  judgment in Petition No. 12  of	1957shall  also dispose of petitions Nos. 26 and 27 of 1954,  24and 437 of 1955, 256 of 1956 and 16, 17 and 73 of 1957.These	petitions  under  Art.	32  arise  out	of   allegedagreements  by which some of the proprietors in	 the  formerState  of  Madhya  Pradesh granted to one or  other  of	 thepetitioners  the right to take forest produce, mainly  tenduleaves, from the forests included in Zamindari and Malguzarivillages  of the grantors.  Government has disclaimed  theseagreements and auctioned the rights afresh.  The petitionersstate that this is an invasion of their fundamental  rights.The  dates  on which these alleged agreements  were  enteredinto,  the terms thereof and the periods during	 which	theywere to subsist are different from case to case.  It is	 notnecessary  in  this judgment to recite the  terms  of  thesedocuments, and it is sufficient to group them for purpose ofdecision  on  the bases whether the  said  agreements  stillsubsist,  and whether they are incorporated in a  registeredinstrument or not.Petitions  Nos. 437 of 1955 and 256 of 1956 are	 founded  onunregistered  documents.  The answering respondent does	 notadmit  these  documents, and contends that  they  cannot  belooked into to prove their342terms,	in view of the decision of this Court in  Shri-mathiShantabai  v. State of Bombay (1).Petitions  Nos. 16, 17 and  73 of 1957 form  another  group,inasmuch  as the period during which the alleged  agreementswere   to  operate  expired  in	 1955.	 Additionally,	 thedocuments on which the 'claim is founded in those  petitionsare unregistered.  In the last mentioned case, it is pleadedthat  the  answering  State Government	had  recognised	 theagreements in favour of the petitioner but resiled from thatposition subsequently, which allegation has been  adequatelyexplained  by  the State Government in its  affidavit.	 Therecognition  was  not  in favour of the	 petitioner  but  infavour	of  one	 Thakur Kamta Singh, who  claimed  under  anagreement  entered  into by one Vishwanath Singh on  a	datewhen  he  had  already	transferred  his  interest  in	 theZamindari  to  his son Onkar Prasad Singh.  This  point	 wastherefore  not taken before us at the hearing,	and  nothingmore  Deed  be said about it.  The  main  objection  againstthese petitions is that the agreements having expired, thereis  nothing  left  to  enforce	either	in  favour  of	 thepetitioners or against the State Government, and the remedy,if  any, of the petitioners is to sue the State	 and/or	 theproprietors for the breach.The last group consists of Petitions Nos. 26 and 27 of 1954,24  of 1955 and the present petition (No. 12 of	 1957).	  Inthese  petitions,  the agreements with the  petitioners	 aremade by registered documents and the terms during which theyare  to	 operate  have yet to expire.  These  cases,  it  isstated,	 fall outside the rule in Shantabai's case  (1),  towhich  reference has already been made.	 They are stated  tofall  within  the decision of this Court  reported  in	FirmChhotabhai  Jethabai  Patel and Co. v. The State  of  MadhyaPradesh (2).  In all these petitions, counsel argue that theview expressed in the last mentioned case is correct,  whilethe  view  in Shantabai's case (1) needs  further  consider-ation.The  argument of the petitioners in these several  cases  isthat Government steps into the shoes of the(1) [1959] S.C.R. 265..(2) [1953] S.C.R. 476.343quondam	 proprietors,  and is bound by the  agreements	intowhich  the  latter  had entered,  before  their	 proprietaryrights	were taken over by Government.	They also raise	 thecontention  that  the petitioners were	not  proprietors  asdefined	 in  the  Madhya Pradesh  Abolition  of	 ProprietaryRights	 (Estates,  Mahals,  Alienated	Lands)	 Act,	1950(hereinafter called the Act), and thus ss. 3 and 4 in  termsdo  not apply to them.	These sections, it is contended,  donot  apply to profit a prendre, which the petitioners  enjoyunder  these  agreements.  In support  of  this	 contention,reference  is  made  to	 the  decision	of  this  Court	  inChhotabhai's   case  (1),  and	to  the	 definition   of   'proprietor'  in	 the Act.  Reference is also  made  to	someprovisions  of	the C. P. Land Revenue Act to  be  mentionedhereafter,  to prove that the persons on whom the  right  tocollect forest produce was conferred by the proprietors can-not  be regarded as proprietors even under that Act.   This,in  main,  is the argument in these cases,  and	 even  thosepetitioners    whose   agreements   are	  incorporated	  inunregistered  documents	 or  whose  agreements	have   sinceexpired,  adopted  the	same line of  argument	denying	 thenecessity for registration of such agreements.The  matter in so far as it relates to the first two  groupsis  simple.  It has already been ruled in  Shantabai's	case(2) that if the right be claimed on foot of an	unregisteredagreement,  it	cannot be entertained. Such  documents	wereexamined from five different angles in that case, and it washeld  that the document-if it conferred a part or  share  inthe proprietary right, or even a right to profit a  prendre-needed	registration to convey the right.  If it  created  abare  licence, the licence came to an end with the  interestof  the licensors in the forests.  If proprietary right	 wasotherwise  acquired, it vested in the State, and lastly,  ifthe agreements created a purely personal right by  contract,there  was no deprivation of property, because the  contractdid  not  run  with the land.  Bose,  J.,  who	delivered  aseparate  judgment,  also  held	 that  in  the	absence	  ofregistration no right was created.(1) [1953] S.C.R. 476.(2) [1959] S.C.R. 265.344In view of the clear pronouncement of this Court, the  firsttwo  groups of petitions must fail.  Petitions Nos.  16,  17and  73	 of  1957 also fail for the added  reason  that	 theagreements  having expired, the only remedy, if any,  is  tosue  for breach of contract and no writ to  enforce  expiredagreements can issue.This  brings us to the arguments advanced in the  last	fourpetitions in the third group which were also adopted by	 theother petitioners, whose petitions we have just	 considered.All these petitioners strongly relied upon Chhotabhai's case(1).  It is therefore necessary to examine attentively	whatwas  decided  there.  In that case, it was held	 at  p.	 483that:"  The contracts and agreements appear to be in essence	 andeffect	licenses granted to the transferees to cut,  gather,and carry away the produce, in the shape of tendu leaves, orlac, or timber, or wood."Reference in this behalf was made to a decision of the PrivyCouncil in Mohanlal Hargovind of Jubbalpore v.	Commissionerof Income-tax, Central Provinces and Berar (2), where it wasobserved:" The contracts grant no interest in land and no interest inthe trees or plants themselves.	 They are simply and  solelycontracts giving to the grantees the right to pick and carryaway  leaves,  which,  of  course,  implies  the  right	  toappropriate them as their own property.The small right of cultivation given in the first of the twocontracts is merely ancillary and is of Do more significancethan would be, e.g., a right to spray a fruit tree given  tothe person who has bought the crop of apples.  The contractsare  short-term contracts.  The picking of the leaves  underthem  has to start at once, or practically at once,  and  toproceed continuously."The Bench next observed that there was nothing in the Act toaffect the validity of the several contracts and agreements,and  that the petitioners were, neither	 proprietors  withinthe meaning of the Act, nor persons having " any interest inthe  proprietary  right	 through the  proprietors  ".  Afterquoting from Baden Powell's(1) [1953] S.C.R. 476.	       (2) I.L.R. 1949 Nag. 892, 898,345Land  Systems of British India, Vol.  1,p. 217, as  to	whatwas  meant by ' proprietorship' in the Land Revenue  Systemsin  India,  it	was  observed  that  the  definition  of   'proprietor'  in the Act conveyed the same  sense.   Finally,repelling  the	argument  that the  agreements	concerned  "future	goods  ", it was held on the basis of a	 passage  inBenjamin on Sale, 8th Edition, page 136, that a present saleof the right to goods having a " potential existence " couldbe  made.  Since possession was taken under  the  agreementsand  consideration had also passed, there could be " a	saleof  a present right to the goods as soon as they  come	intoexistence."Reference  was	also made (at pp. 480, 481) to s. 6  of	 theAct, which provides:" (1) Except as provided in sub-section (2), the transfer ofany  right  in the property which is liable to vest  in	 theState  under  this Act made by the pro-prietor at  any	timeafter  the  16th  March, 1950, shall, as from  the  date  ofvesting, be void."It was observed in the case as follows:"  The	date, 16th March, 1950, is probably  the  date	whenlegislation on these lines was actively thought of, and sub-section	 (1) hits at transfers made after this	date.	Thismeans that transfers before that date are not to be regardedas void.  Even in the case of transfers after the said date,sub-section  (2) provides that the Deputy  Commissioner	 maydeclare	 that they are not void after the date	of  vesting,provided  they were made in good faith and in  the  ordinarycourse of management.The scheme of the Act as can be gathered from the provisionsreferred  to above makes it reasonably clear  that  whateverwas done before 16th March, 1950, by the proprietors by	 wayof  transfer of rights is not to be disturbed  or  affected,and that what vests in the State is what the proprietors hadon the vesting date.  If the proprietor had any rights afterthe  date  of  vesting which he could  enforce	against	 thetransferee  such  as a lessee or a  licensee,  those  rights-would no doubt vest in the State."44346It was accordingly held that the State Government could	 notinterfere  with	 such agreements but had only the  right  toenforce rights arising therefrom " standing in the shoes  ofthe proprietors."It  is clear from the foregoing analysis of the decision  inChhotabhai's  case  (1)	 that  on  a  construction  of	 thedocuments there under consideration and adopting a principleenunciated  by	the Privy Council in Mohanlal  Hargovind  ofJubbalpore  v. Commissioner of Incometax, Central  Provincesand Berar (2) and relying upon a passage each in Benjamin onSale  and the wellknown treatise of Baden-Powell, the  Benchcame to the conclusion that the documents there under consi-deration  did  not create any interest in land and  did	 notconstitute  any	 grant of any proprietary  interest  in	 theestate	but were merely contracts or licenses given  to	 thepetitioners  " to cut, gather and carry away the produce  inthe shape of tendu leaves, or lac , or timber or wood ". Butthen,  it necessarily followed that the Act did not  purportto  affect  the petitioners' rights under the  contracts  orlicenses.   But what was the nature of those rights  of	 thepetitioners  ?	It  is	plain,	that  if  they	were  merelycontractual  rights,  then as pointed out in the  two  laterdecisions,  in	Ananda Behera v. The State  of	Orissa	(3),Shantabai's  case (4), the State has not acquired  or  takenpossession of those rights but has only declined to be boundby  the agreements to which they were not a party.   If,  onthe  other hand, the petitioners were mere  licensees,	thenalso,  as pointed out in the second of the two cases  cited,the  licenses came to an end on the extinction of the  titleof  the licensors.  In either case there was no question  ofthe breach of any fundamental right of the petitioners whichcould support the petitions which were presented under	Art.32  of	the Constitution.  It is this aspect of	 the  matterwhich  was not brought to the notice of the Court,  and	 theresulting  omission to advert to it has seriously  impaired,if  not completely nullified, the effect and weight  of	 thedecision in Chhotabhai's case (1) as a precedent.(1)[1953] S.C.R. 476.(3)[1955] 2 S.C.R. 265.(2)  I.L.R. 1949 Nag. 892, 898.(4)  [1959] S.C.R. 265.			  347The  argument of counsel in these cases followed  the  broadpattern	 of  the decision in Chhotabhai's case (1).  and  wenext  proceed  to consider it.	It is  contended  that	whatvests in the State is the right which the proprietors had onthe  date  of  vesting	because	 s. 3  of  the	Act  is	 notretrospective, and that the agreements are " in essence	 andeffect	licenses granted to the transferees to	out,  gatherand carry away the produce in the shape of tendu leaves,  orlac or timber or wood ". These agreements, it is  submitted,grant  no  'interest in land' or I benefit to arise  out  ofland', the object of the agreements can only be described assale of ' goods' as defined in the Indian Sale of Goods Act,and  the  grant of such a right is not comprehended  in	 thefirstsub-section of s. 3 where it says :" .........all proprietary rights in an estate, mahal in thearea specified in the notification, vesting in a  proprietorof such estate, Mahal or in a person having interest in suchproprietary  right through the proprietor, shall  pass	fromsuch  proprietor  or such other person to and  vest  in	 theState for the purposes of the State free of all encumbrances".It  is	finally contended that the interest of	these  peti-tioners	 is not I proprietary right' at all but a  right  toget  I goods in the shape of leaves, lac, etc.	We  have  toexamine these contentions critically.Before	we  do so, it is necessary to set out in  brief	 theterms  of the agreements which have been produced  in  thesecases.	  In  Petition	No.  12	 of  1957  there  were	 twoagreements,  Annexures	A and B. The first was	executed  in1944 and granted the right from 1947 to 1956; the second wasexecuted  in 1946 and granted the right from 1957  to  1966.These  are  long term agreements and they are  typical	fromcase  to case.	Indeed, the second agreement was  made	evenbefore	the first began, and the total period is  20  years.In  addition to the right to the leaves the  documents	pro-vided  for  many other matters.	 It is convenient  to  quoteonly from Annexure 'B':"  Before  this I had given you a similar  contract  sellingTendu leaves produce by contract dated(1)[1953] S-C.R. 476.3487-7-1944  registered  on 12-7-1944.  In	 pursuance  of	thatregistered  contract, which is for five years from  1947  to1951 and another for subsequent five years from 1952 to 1956in  all for ten years, you are to remain in  possession	 andoccupation  of the areas and the Tendu leaves  produce	tillthe termination of the year 1956 for which time you continueyour possession and thereafter in pursuance of this contractyou continue for further period of ten years your possessionand  occupation from 1957 to 1966 as is usual and  customarypruning and coppicing Tendu leaves plants, burning them, andinstal	Fadis for collection of Tendu leaves  and  constructKothas	(godowns)  for storage of the leaves at	 your  sweetwill  and choice on any open plot or land within the  estatewith  my permission and you are allowed to take free of	 allcosts  any Adjat timber, bamboos, etc., from my forests	 forconstructing   them.	I  shall  charge  you	no   furtherconsideration.	 In  the  same manner, for  the	 purpose  ofconstructing these godowns and such thing you may  accordingto  your  convenience (you may) manufacture  bricks  at	 anyplace you like in the vicinity of any rivers, rivulet,	Nalaor  pond  at your costs.  I shall not receive-from  you	 anyextra amount as rent for the use and occupation of land thatwill  be used for construction of Kothas, for  manufacturingbricks	and  for  locating  Fadis  (Bidi  leaves  collectioncentres).  All those are included in the consideration fixedfor  this contract.  All these rights are already  conferredon  you	 in the previous contract dated 7-7-1944  and  underthis  contract for the entire contract period.	It  is	alsoopen  to you to collect Tendu leaves not only those  growingin  the	 summer	 season but also those	growing	 in  Kartik.During	the  term  of this contract, if for  one  reason  oranother	 it  becomes  necessary for you to  sell  the  Tenduleaves produce and assign this contract to any other  personyou can do so.	But you shall be responsible for me to	givemy  consent after inquiring of the fitness of  the  intendedtransferee.   However, you shall continue to be	 responsibleto  pay to me the agreed amount of instalments on or  beforethe agreed dates; and if the agreed amount of instalment  isnot paid to me on or			    349before	the  agreed date, I shall have full right  to  startproper proceedings in that connection ".In Petition No. 26 of 1954, the period of the two agreementswas  from 1944 to 1963.	 There too, the rights were  similarto those in Petition No. 12 of 1957, and analogous terms areto be found in Petitions Nos. 27 of 1954 and 24 of 1955.The  question  that arises is, what is the  nature  of	thisright?	 In  English  law,  distinction	 was  made   betweeneasements  and	profit	a prendre and a right  to  take	 theproduce	 of  the soil was regarded as a	 profit	 a  prendre.While easements were not regarded as an interest in land,  aright to take the produce of the soil or a portion of it wasan interest in land: Fitzgerald v. Fairbanks (1).  Profit-a-prendre can be the subject of a grant.	Where they take	 theform  of a grant, they are benefits arising from  land.	  Inall  these  cases, there is not a naked right  to  take	 theleaves	of Tendu trees together with a right of ingress	 andof  regress  from  the	land;  there  are  further  benefitsincluding  the right to occupy the land, to erect  buildingsand  to take other forest produce not  necessarily  standingtimber, growing crop or grass.	The right of ingress and  ofregress over land vesting in the State can only be exercisedif  the State as the owner of the land allows it,  and	evenapart  from  the essential nature of  the  transaction,	 theState can prohibit it as the owner of the land.Whether	 the right to the leaves can be regarded as a  rightto  a  growing	crop  has,  however,  to  be  examined	withreference  to  all the terms of the documents  and  all	 therights conveyed thereunder.  If the right conveyed comprisesmore than the leaves of the trees, it may not be correct  torefer	to  it	as  being  in  respect	of   growing   crop'simpliciter.We  are not concerned with the subtle distinctions  made  inEnglish law between emblements, fructus naturals and fructusindustriales,	but   we  have	to  consider   whether	 thetransaction concerns " goods " or "moveable property " or  "immovable  property  ".	 The law is made  difficult  by	 thedefinitions which exist in the General Clauses Act, the Saleof Goods Act, the(1)[1897] 2 Ch. 96.350Transfer  of Property Act and the Registration	Act.   Thesedefinitions  must  be placed alongside one  another  to	 gettheir ambits.If  the	 definitions are viewed together, it is	 plain	thatthey  do not tell us what " immovable property "' is.	Theyonly  tell  us	what  is either	 included  or  not  includedtherein.  One thing is clear, however, that things rooted inthe earth as in the case of trees and shrubs, are  immovableproperty  both	within	the  General  Clauses  Act  and	 theTransfer  of  Property Act, but in the	latter,	 "  standingtimber	", " growing crop " and " grass " though  rooted  inearth  are not included.  Of these, " growing crop "  and  "grass  form  the  subjectmatter of the sale  of	 goods,	 andstanding  timber  "  comes  within  the	 last  part  of	 thedefinition  of ' goods' in the Indian Sale of Goods Act,  tobe subject thereto if the condition about severing mentionedin the definition of ' goods' exists.It has already been pointed out that the agreements conveyedmore  than  the	 tendu	leaves	to  the	 petitioners.	Theyconveyed  other forest produce like timber,  bamboos,  etc.,the soil for making bricks, the right to prune, coppice	 andburn  tendu trees and the right to build on and occupy	landfor the purpose of their business.  These rights were spreadover many years, and were not so simple as buying leaves, soto speak, in a shop.  The expression " growing crop "  mightappropriately	comprehend  tendu  leaves,  but	 would	 notinclude, Adjat timber', bamboos, nor even tendu plants.	 Thepetitioners were not to get leaves from the extant trees butalso  such  trees as might grow in the future.	 They  couldeven  burn the old trees, presumably, so that  others  mightgrow in their place.  In these circumstances, the agreementscannot	 be  said  to  be  contracts  of  sale	of   'goods'simpliciter.It remains now to consider whether the rights enjoyed by thepetitioners  can be said to fall within s. 3(1) of the	Act.That  section divests the proprietors of  their	 proprietaryrights,	 as also any other person having an interest in	 theproprietary  right  through the proprietor and	vests  thoserights	in the State.  That section has to be read with	 thesection which			    351follows,  and which sets out the consequences of vesting  ofsuch  rights  in the State.  The rights which  vest  can  bestated	briefly	 to  be (a) all proprietary  rights  in	 theproprietor,  and  (b) all proprietary rights in	 any  personhaving	interest  in  such proprietary	rights	through	 theproprietor.   These  rights vest in the State  free  of	 allencumbrances.Section	 4  of the Act provides inter alia  that  after	 thenotification  has  been	 issued,  then,	 '   notwithstandinganything contained in any contract, grant or document or  inany  other  law	 for the time being in	force  and  save  asotherwise  provided in this Act'-the following	consequences(among others) shall ensue:"  (a)	all  rights,  title  and  interest  vesting  in	 theproprietor or any person having interest in such proprietaryright  through	the proprietor in such area  including	Land(cultivable  or	 barren),  grassland,  scrubjungle,  forest,trees,	fisheries,  wells,  tanks,  ponds,   water-channels,ferries,  pathways, village sites, hats, bazars	 and  melas;and  in all subsoil, including rights, if any, in mines	 andminerals,  whether being worked or not, shall cease  and  bevested	in the State for purposes of the State free  of	 allencumbrances;  and  the	 mortgage  debt	 or  charge  on	 anyproprietary  right  shall  be  a charge	 on  the  amount  ofcompensation  payable  for  such proprietary  right  to	 theproprietor under the provisions of this Act;(b)all	grants and confirmation of title of or to land	inthe  property so vesting or of or to any right or  privilegein  respect  of	 such property or land	revenue	 in  respectthereof	  shall,  whether  liable  to  resumption  or	not,determine: ".If  these  petitioners	can be said to be  possessing  "  aninterest  in  the proprietary right ",	then  their  rights,title and interest in the land determine under the Act,	 andvest in the State.  The petitioners, therefore, contend thattheir  rights  under the agreements cannot be  described  as'proprietary right' or even a share of it.  They rely on thedefinition  of 'proprietor' in the Act, and refer under	 theauthority  of  s. 2(b) of the Act to the  Central  ProvincesLand Revenue Act, 1917.The definition in the Act is not exhaustive.	 It only352tells  us  who, besides the proprietor, is included  in	 theterm 'proprietor'.  Further, the definitions in the Act	 aresubordinate  to	 the  requirements of the  context  and	 thesubject-matter	of any particular enactment.  From the	Act,we  know  that the proprietor's interest in  forest,  trees,shrub, grass and the like passes to the State.	The questionthus resolves into two short ones-did the former proprietorsown  proprietary interest in these trees, and did they	partwith  that  proprietary	 interest  and	convey	it  to	 thepetitioners ?There  is  but	little doubt that in so far as	the  Act  isconcerned,  it	does contemplate cesser of  all	 proprietaryrights in land, grass land, scrub jungle, forest and  trees,whether owned by the proprietor or through him by some otherperson.	  The contention of the petitioners is that  by	 theterm  " proprietor " is meant what that term conveys in	 theCentral	 Provinces Land Revenue Act, and reference  is	madefor  this purpose to various sections therein.	The  term  "proprietor  "  is  defined in  the  Central  Provinces	LandRevenue Act thus:" " Proprietor " except in sections 68, 93 and 94,  includesa gaontia of a Government village in Sambalpur Territory."This definition does not advance the matter any further.  Inseveral sections, special explanations are added to define "-proprietors  ". In all those explanations, the term is	 notdefined,  but is said to include 'thekedars or headmen	withprotected  status', I mortgagee with possession', I  lesseesholding	 under leases from year to year' and the  like.	  Inaddition,   there  is  invariably  the	inclusion  of  I   atransferee  of	proprietary, rights  in	 possession',  whichagain  leaves the matter at large.  See ss. 2(5), 2(21),  53and 68.Counsel	 faced with this difficulty rely upon the scheme  ofsettlement in Ch.  VI of the Central Provinces Land  RevenueAct-,  and the record of rights which consists of Khewat,  astatement  of persons possessing proprietary rights  in	 themahal	including   inferior  proprietors  or	lessees	  ormortgagees  in possession, specifying the nature and  extentof  the	 interest  of each; and Khasra	or  field  book	 andJamabandi or list of persons353cultivating   or  occupying  land  in  the  village.   thesedocuments  are prepard separately.  The petitioners  contendthat  by 'proprietary right' is meant that right  which	 canfind,  a place or be entered in the Khewat, and	 the  rightsenjoyed by the petitioners are not and cannot be entered  inthe Khewat because thay are not	 'proprietary rights'.	Theyalso  refer  to	 the  schemes  of  settlement  under   whichproprietors   subproprietors   etc.,-  are  determined	 andoffered assessment.In  our opinion, these arguments, though attractive, do	 notrepresent  the	whole of the matter.  What  these  documentsrecord and what the settlement operations determine are	 thekinds  of  ' proprietors' among whom the  entire  bundle  ofrights is shared.  Every proprietor or sub-proprietor enjoysproprietary rights over land, forests, etc., falling  withinhis  interest.	 The  right to forest trees,  etc.,  is	 theconsequence  of proprietorship, and indeed, under  s.  47(3)the  State Government can declare which rights and  interestmust be regarded as ' proprietary rights'.  That sub-sectionprovides:" The State Government may declare the rights and  interestswhich shall be deemed to be proprietary rights and interestswithin the meaning of sub-section (2)."The second sub-section provides:"  The	Deputy Commissioner shall cause to be  recorded,  inaccordance  with rules made under s. 227, all  changes	thathave  taken place in respect of, and all  transactions	thathave  affected, any of the proprietary rights and  interestsin any land."The matter is made clear if one refers to the provisions  ofs.  202	 of the Land Revenue Act.  That section	 confers  onGovernment the power to regulate the control and  managementof the forest-growth on the lands of any estate or mahal.  Areading of sub-ss. (4) to (8) of that section clearly  showsthat forests belong to the proprietors from whom under thosesub-sections  they  can be taken over  for  management,	 theprofits	 of the management less expenses being paid  to	 theproprietors  or to superior and inferior proprietors as	 thecase may be.  Sub-sections (9) and (10) provide45354(9)" No lease, lien, encumbrance or contract with  respectto  the forest land held under direct manage ment  shall  bebinding upon the Government.(10)On	the expiration of the period fixed for	the  directmanagement,  the  forest  land	shall  be  restored  to	 theproprietor thereof"Even here, the term ' proprietor' is explained by the  usualexplanation showing the same category of persons as includedin the section.From this, it is quite clear that forests and trees belongedto  the	 proprietors,  and they were  items  of	 proprietaryrights.	  The  first  of  the two  questions  posed  by	 us,therefore, admits of none but an affirmative answer.If then the forest and the trees belonged to the proprietorsas  items in their ' proprietary rights', it is quite  clearthat these items-of proprietary rights have been transferredto  the petitioners.  The answer to the second	question  isalso  in the affirmative.  Being a 1 proprietary right',  itvests  in  the	State under ss. 3 and 4	 of  the  Act.	 Thedecision  in Chhotabhai's case (1) treated these  rights  asbare licenses, and it was apparently given per incuriam, andcannot therefore befollowed.Even  assuming that the documents in question do not  amountto grant of any proprietary right by the proprietors to	 thepetitioners,  the latter can have only the benefit of  theirrespective contracts or licenses.  In either case, the Statehas  not, by the Act, acquired or taken possession  of	suchcontracts  or licenses and consequently, there has  been  noinfringement  of the petitioners , fundamental	right  whichalone	can  support  a	 petition  under  Art.	32  of	 theConstitution.The result is that these petitions fail, and are  dismissed,but in view of the fact that they were filed because of	 thedecision  in Chhotabhai's case (1), there shall be no  orderabout costs.Petitions dismissed.(1) [1953] S.C.R. 476.355