PETITIONER:PANDIT BANARSI DAS BHANOT	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH& OTHERS(and connected appeals)DATE OF JUDGMENT:03/04/1958BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABOSE, VIVIANDAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  909		  1959 SCR  427ACT:Sales  Tax-Building  contracts-Tax on supply  of  materials-Validity--Statute Providing for exemption from taxation, butalso   enabling	 Government  to	 amend	such  exemption	  bynotification--Constitutionality-Central Provinces and  BerarSales Tax Act, 1947 (C.P. & Berar 21 Of 1947), SS. 2,  4(a),6(1)(2).HEADNOTE:section	 4(a) of the Central Provinces and Berar  Sales	 TaxAct;  1947,  provided  that  every  dealer  whose   turnoverexceeded  certain  limits  shall be liable  to	pay  tax  inaccordance  with  the  provisions of the Act  on  all  saleseffected after the commencement428of the Act ; and by S. 2(g) Of the Act, " sale ... means anytransfer of property in goods . . . including a transfer  ofproperty  in  goods  made in course of the  execution  of  acontract......	Under s. 6(1) of the Act no tax was  payableon the sale of goods specified in Sch. 11 to the Act and  s.6(2)  enabled the State Government by notification to  amendthe  schedule.	Item 33 in Sch. 11 as amended by Act XVl  of1949  and as adapted by the Adaptation Order of 195o, was  "Goods  sold to or by the State Government ". In exercise  ofthe  power conferred by s. 6(2) of the Act,  the  Governmentissued	a notification on September 18, 1950, amending	item33  by	substituting  the words " Goods sold  by  the  StateGovernment ".The   appellant,   a  contractor  doing	 business   in	 theconstruction  of  buildings and roads for the  Military	 andPublic	Works  Department in the State	of  Madhya  Pradesh,challenged   the  validity  of	the  assessment	 which	 therespondent  proposed  to  make on the  appellant  under	 theprovisions of the Central Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act,1947, on the grounds (1) that the Provincial Legislature hadno  authority  under Entry 48 Of List II, Sch.	VII  of	 theGovernment of India Act, 1935, to impose a tax on the supplyof  materials in works contracts and that the provisions  ofthat Central Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act which  soughtto  impose  a tax thereon treating it as a sale	 were  ultravires, and (2) that he was entitled to exemption under	item33 in Sch. 11, to tile Act and that the notification of	 theGovernment  dated  September  18,  1950,  withdrawing	thatexemption was bad as being an unconstitutional delegation oflegislative authority :Held,  that the expression "sales of goods" in Entry 48	 hasthe  same meaning which it had in the Indian Sale  of  GoodsAct,  1930, that in a building contract there is no sale  ofmaterials as such, and that it is therefore ultra vires	 thepowers	of the Provincial Legislature to impose tax  on	 thesupply of materials.The State of Madras v. Gannon Dunkerley & Co. (Madras) Ltd.,[1959] S.C.R. 379, followed.Per Das C. J., Venkatarama Aiyar, S. K. Das and A. K. SarkarJJ-It  is not unconstitutional for the legislature to  leaveit  to	the executive to determine details relating  to	 theworking	 of taxation laws, such as the selection of  personson  whom the tax is to be laid, the rates at which it is  tobe charged in respect of different classes of goods, and thelike.	The  power conferred on the State Government  by  s.6(2) of the Act to amend the Schedule relating to  exemptionis  in	consonance with the  accepted  legislative  practicerelating to the topic, and is not unconstitutional.Sub-sections (1) and (2) of s. 6 together form integral partof  a  single  enactment the object of	which  is  to  grantexemption from taxation in respect of such goods and to suchextent	as may from time to time be determined by the  StateGovernment, and an		     429exemption  granted under s. 6(1) is conditional and  subjectto any notification that might be issued under s. 6(2).	 Thenotification  dated September 18, 1950, is  therefore  intravires.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals-Nos.253 to	 255of 1955.Appeals	 from  the judgment and decree	dated  November	 30,1954,  of the former Nagpur High Court in  Misc.   PetitionsNos. 245, 279 and 308 of 1954.N.   C. Chatterjee and G. C. Mathur, for the appellant in C.A. No. 253 of 1955.G.   C. Mathur, for the appellant in C. A. Nos. 254 and	 255of 1955.B.   Sen, S. B. Sen and 1. N. Shroff, for the respondents inC.  A. Nos. 253 and 254 of 1950 and for the State of  MadhyaPradesh (Intervener).C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India and R.    H.Dhebar, for the respondents in C. A. No. 255 of 1955 and forthe State of Bombay (Intervener).N.   S.	 Bindra	 and  T. M. Sen, for  the  State  of  Punjab(Intervener).1958.  April 3. The judgment of S. R. Das C. J., VenkataramaAiyar,	S.  K.	Das and A. K. Sarkar JJ.  was  delivered  byVenkatarama Aiyar J. Bose J. delivered a separate judgment.VENKATARAMA AIYAR J.-These are appeals against the  judgmentof  the High Court of Nagpur in writ applications  filed  bythe appellants impugning the validity of certain  provisionsof  the Central Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act, 1947	 (C.P. & Berar 21 of 1947), hereinafter referred to as the	Act,imposing sales tax on materials used in construction works.It  will be convenient to refer to these provisions at	thisstage.	 Section  2(b) of the Act defines "  contract  "  asincluding  "  any  agreement for carrying out  for  cash  ordeferred   payment  or	other  valuable	 consideration	 theconstruction,  fitting	out, improvement or  repair  of	 anybuilding,  road, bridge or other immovable property  or	 theinstallation or repair of any machinery430affixed to a building or other immovable property ". Section2(c) of the Act defines " dealer " as including a person whocarries on the business of supplying goods.  In s. 2 (d),  "goods  " are defined as including " all materials,  articlesand   commodities  whether  or	not  to	 be  used   in	 theconstruction,	fitting	 out,  improvement  or	 repair	  ofimmovable property ". Section 2(g) definessale " as follows:"  " Sale " with all its grammatical variations and  cognateexpressions means any transfer of property in goods for cashor   deferred  payment	or  other  valuable   consideration,including a transfer of property in goods made in course  ofthe  execution	of  a  contract,  but  does  not  include  amortgage,  hypothecation,  charge or pledge;  and  the	word'purchase' shall be construed accordingly.  "Section 2(h) defines " sale price " as including the  amountpayable	 to  a	dealer as  valuable  consideration  for	 thecarrying   out	 of  any  contract,   less   such   portion,representing  the  proportion of the cost of labour  to	 thecost  of materials, used in carrying out such  contract,  asmay  be prescribed.  " Turnover " is defined in s.  2(j)  asincluding the aggregate amount of the sale price received orreceivable by a dealer in respect of the supply of goods  inthe  carrying out of any contract.  The charging section  iss.  4(a),  and	it  provides  that  dealers  whose  turnoverexceeded  certain  limits  shall be liable  to	pay  tax  inaccordance  with  the  provisions of the Act  on  all  saleseffected  after the commencement of the Act.  Rule 4 of	 theSales  Tax Rules, 1947, provides that " in  calculating	 thesale price for the purpose of sub-cl. (ii) of cl. (h) of  s.2,  a  dealer may be permitted to deduct  from	the  amountspayable to him as valuable consideration for carrying out  acontract,  a  sum not exceeding such percentages as  may  befixed by the Commissioner for different areas subject to thefollowing maximum percentages ", and then follows a scale ofpercentages to be allowed in respect of different classes ofcontracts.Acting	on  these provisions,  the  authorities	 constitutedunder  the Act called upon the contractors within the  Stateto furnish returns in respect of their receipts		  431from  contract works for the purpose of assessment of  salestax,  to  which the appellants replied	by  instituting	 theproceedings,  out of which the present appeals	arise.	 Theappellant  in Civil Appeal No. 253 of 1955 is  a  contractordoing  business in the construction of buildings  and  roadsfor the Military and Public Works Department in the State ofMadhya	Pradesh,  and  he  filed  M.  P.  No.  245  of	1954challenging  the  validity  of	the  assessment	 which	 therespondents proposed to make, on two grounds.  He  contendedfirstly that the Provincial Legislature had authority  underEntry  48 of List 11, Sch.  VII of the Government  of  IndiaAct,  1935,  to impose tax only on sale of goods,  that	 thesupply of materials in works contracts was not a sale withinthat Entry, and that the provisions of the Act, which soughtto  impose  a  tax  thereon treating  it  as  a	 sale,	weretherefore ultra vires; and secondly that he was entitled  toexemption under item 33 in Sch. 11 to the Act as enacted  byAct XVI of 1949, and that the notification of the Governmentdated  September  18, 1950, withdrawing that  exemption	 wasunconstitutional  and void.  To appreciate this	 contention,it  is	necessary to refer to s. 6 of the Act, which  is  asfollows:6  (1) " No tax shall be payable under this Act on the	saleof  goods  specified in the second column  of  Schedule	 11,subject to the conditions and exceptions, if any, set out inthe corresponding entry in the third column thereof.(2)  The State Government may, after giving by	notificationnot  less than one month's notice of their intention  so  todo,  by	 a notification after the expiry of  the  period  ofnotice	mentioned  in the first	 notification  amend  eitherSchedule, and thereupon such Schedule shall be deemed to  beamended accordingly."Item 33 in Sch. 11 as originally enacted was " Goods sold bythe  Crown  ".	This  was amended by  Act  XVI	of  1949  bysubstituting  for the above words " Goods sold to or by	 theCrown  ". By an Adaptation Order of 1950, the  words  "StateGovernment" were substituted for "Crown", and item 33 became"Goods sold to or by the State Government " In exercise of432the power conferred by s. 6 (2) of the Act, the State issueda  notification on September 18, 1950, amending item  33  bysubstituting  for the words " Goods sold to or by the  StateGovernment " the words " Goods sold by the State  Government".  The	 resultant position is that the	 appellant  who	 wasentitled  to exemption under Act XVI of 1949 in	 respect  ofgoods  sold  to the Government could no longer claim  it  byreason	of the notification aforesaid.	Now, the  ground  ofhis  attack  was that it was not open to the  Government  inexercise of the authority delegated to it under s. 6 (2)  ofthe Act to modify or alter what the Legislature had enacted.The appellant accordingly claimed that the proceedings whichthe respondents proposed to take for assessment of sales taxwere incompetent, and prayed that an appropriate writ  mightbe issued restraining them from proceeding with the same.In  Civil  Appeal No. 254 of 1955, the	appellants  are	 theJabalpur  Contractors'	Association, which is  a  registeredbody  and certain contractors, and they filed M. P. No.	 279of 1954 questioning the validity of the proposed  assessmenton  the	 same  grounds as in M. P. No.	245  of	 1954.	 Theappellant  in  Civil Appeal No. 255 of 1955, is	 the  MadhyaPradesh	 Contractors' Association, Nagpur, which is again  aregistered  body,  and	it  filed M. P.	 No.  305  of  1954,challenging  the legality of the proceedings for  assessmenton the same grounds as in M. P. No. 245 of 1954.All these three petitions were heard together, and by  theirjudgment  dated November 30, 1954, the learned	Judges	heldthat  the expression " sale of goods" in Entry 48  was	wideenough	to  coverall transactions in which property  in	 themoveables  passed from one person to another for money,	 andthat,  accordingly, in a building contract there was a	salewithin Entry 48 of the materials used therein, and that	 theprovisions of the Act imposing tax thereon were valid.	 Butthe  learned Judges also held that the tax could  be  leviedonly  on the actual value of the materials to be  determinedon an enquiry into the matter, and that the definition of  "price " in s. 2 (h)(ii) and r. 4 framed pursuant thereto were ultra vires433in that they laid down artificial rules for fixing the	sameby  deducting  certain	percentages from out  of  the  totalreceipts on account of labour.	As regards the	notificationdated  September 18, 1950, the learned Judges held  that  itwas  within the authority conferred by the statute  and	 wasvalid.	 In the result, the impugned provisions of  the	 Actwere held to be valid except as to the definition of " price"  in s. 2 (h) (ii) and r. 4 of the Sales Tax  Rules,  1947.It is against this judgment that the above appeals have beenpreferred  on a certificate granted by the High Court  underArt. 132(1) of the Constitution.Two contentions have been urged in support of the appeals  :(1)  that  the Provincial Legislature has  no  authority  inexercise of its power under Entry 48 to impose a tax on	 thesupply of materials in works contracts as such supply cannotbe  said to be also of those materials within that  Entry  ;and  (2) that the notification dated September 18, 1950,  isbad  as	 being an constitutional delegation  of	 legislativeauthority.As  regards  the  first	 contention,  the  question  is	 nowconcluded  by  the decision of this Court in  The  State  ofMadras v. Gannon Dunkerley & Co. (Madras) Ltd. (1) in  whichit  has been held that the expression " sale of goods  "  inEntry  48  has the same meaning which it has in	 the  IndianSale  of Goods Act, 1930, that in a building contract  thereis  no sale of materials as such, and that it  is  thereforeultra  vires  the powers of the	 Provincial  Legislature  toimpose tax on the supply of materials.	Mr. B. Sen appearingfor the respondents has argued that even if the expression "sale of goods " in Entry 48 is construed in the sense  whichit  has	 in  the Sale of Goods Act, that  might	 render	 theimpugned  provisions of the Act ultra vires only in  respectof  a building contract which is one and  indivisible,	thatthere might be contracts which might consist of two distinctagreements,  one for the sale of materials and another,	 forwork  and  labour,  and that in such a	case,  it  would  becompetent  to  the  State  to impose  tax  on  the  sale  ofmaterials even construing that word in its(1)  [1959] S.C.R. 379.55434narrow sense, and that these are matters which must be	leftto  be	investigated by the appropriate	 authorities.	Thatundoubtedly is the correct legal position as observed in TheState of Madras v. Gannon Dunkerley & Co. (Madras) Ltd. (1),and  accordingly,  when a question arises as  to  whether  aparticular works contract could be charged to sales tax,  itwill  be  for  the authorities under the  Act  to  determinewhether	  the  agreement  in  question	is,  on	  its	trueconstruction,  a combination of an agreement to sell and  anagreement  to work, and if they come to the conclusion	thatsuch is its character, then it will be open to them to	pro-ceed  against  that part of it which is a contract  for	 thesale of goods, and impose tax thereon.(2)  We	 have  next  to consider  the  contention  that	 thenotification   dated   September  18,  1950,   is   bad	  asconstituting  an unconstitutional delegation of	 legislativepower.	In the view which we have expressed above that thereis  in	a works contract no sale of materials  as  such,  itmight  seem  academic  to enter into a	discussion  of	thisquestion  ; but as there may be building contracts in  whichit  is	possible  to spell out agreements for  the  sale  ofmaterials as distinct from contracts for work and labour, itbecomes	 necessary  to express our  decision  thereon.	 Mr.Chatterjee  appearing for the appellant in Civil Appeal	 No.253  of 1955 contends that the notification in	question  isultra  vires  because  it  is a	 matter	 of  policy  whetherexemption  should  be granted under the Act or	not,  and  adecision  on that question must be taken only by the  Legis-lature,	 and  cannot  be left to  the  determination  of  anoutside	 authority.  While a power to execute a law, it	 wasargued,	 could be delegated to the executive, the  power  tomake  it  must be exercised by the Legislature	itself,	 andreliance was placed on the observations in Hampton J R & Co.v.  United States (2), Panama Refining Co. v. Ryan (3),	 andSchechter v. United States (4), as supporting this position.It  was	 also  contended that the grant of  a  power  to  anoutside authority to(1) [1959] S.C.R. 379.(2) 276 U. S. 394; 72 L. Ed. 624, 629.(3)  293 U.S. 388; 79 L. Ed. 446, 458.(4)  295 U.S. 495; 79 L. Ed. 1570.435repeal	or  modify a provision in a statute  passed  by	 thelegislature was unconstitutional, and that, in	consequence,the  impugned notification was bad in that, in	reversal  ofthe  policy laid down by the legislature in Act XVI of	1949that  sales  to	 Government  should  be	 excluded  from	 theoperation  of the Act, it withdrew the exemption  which	 hadbeen  granted  thereunder, and the observations	 in  re	 TheDelhi Laws Act, 1912 etc. (1), and the decision in RajnarainSingh v. The Chairman, Patna Administration Committee, Patnaand  another  (2), were strongly relied on  as	establishingthis  contention.  Mr. N. C. Chatterjee particularly  reliedon  the	 following  observations of Bose J.  at	 p.  301  inRajnarain Singh's case (2) :"  In our opinion, the majority view was that  an  executiveauthority  can	be authorised to modify either	existing  orfuture laws but not in any essential feature.  Exactly	whatconstitutes  an	 essential feature cannot be  enunciated  ingeneral	 terms, and there was some divergence of view  aboutthis  in  the former case, but this much is clear  from	 theopinions  set  out  above; it cannot  include  a  change  ofpolicy."On  these  observations,  the  point  for  determination  iswhether	 the  impugned notification relates to what  may  besaid  to be an essential feature of the law, and whether  itinvolves  any  change of policy.  Now, the  authorities	 areclear that it is not unconstitutional for the legislature toleave  it to the executive to determine details relating  tothe  working  of  taxation laws, such as  the  selection  ofpersons on whom the tax is to be laid, the rates at which itis  to be charged in respect of different classes of  goods,and the like.In  Powell  v. Appollo Candle Company Limited  the  questionarose as to whether s. 133 of the Customs Regulation Act  of1879  of  New  South Wales which conferred a  power  on	 theGovernor to impose tax on certain articles of import was  anunconstitutional  delegation  of  legislative  powers.	  Inholding that it was not, the Privy Council observed:"It is argued that the tax in question has been(1)  [1951] S.C.R. 747, 787, 982, 984-(3)  (1885) 10 A.C. 282.(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 290.436imposed by the Governor and not by the Legislature who alonehad  power  to impose it.  But the duties levied  under	 theOrder-in-Council  are really levied by the authority of	 theAct  under which the Order is issued.  The  Legislature	 hasnot  parted with its perfect control over the Governor,	 andhas  the power, of course, at any moment, of withdrawing  oraltering  the  power which they have entrusted to  him.	  Inthese circumstances, their Lordships are of opinion that thejudgment of the Supreme Court was wrong in declaring Section133  of the Customs Regulation Act of 1879 to be beyond	 thepower of the Legislature."In  Syed  Mohamed  & Co. v. The State  of  Madras  (1),	 thequestion was as to the vires of rules 4 and 16 framed  underthe  Madras General Sales Tax Act.  Section 5 (vi)  of	thatAct had left it to the rule-making authority to determine atwhich  single  point in the series of  sales  by  successivedealers	 the  tax should be levied,  and  pursuant  thereto,rules  4 and 16 had provided that it was the  purchaser	 whowas  liable to pay the tax in respect of sales of hides	 andskins.	The validity of the rules was attacked on the groundthat  it  was  only the legislature that  "as  competent  todecide	who  shall be taxed, and that the  determination  ofthat  question	by  the rule-making  authorities  was  ultravires.	The Madras High Court rejected this conntetion,	 andheld  on a review of the authorities that the delegation  ofauthority   under   s.	5  (vi)	 war,	within	 permissibleconstitutional limits.In Hampton J. R. & Co. v. United States (2), which was citedon  behalf of the appellant, the question arose	 whether  s.315(b)	of the Tariff Act, 1922, under which  the  Presidenthad  been empowered to make such increases and decreases  inthe  rates of duty as were found necessary for carrying	 outthe policies declared in the statute was an unconstitutionaldelegation,  and the decision was that such  delegation	 wasnot unconstitutional.  We are therefore of the opinion	thatthe  power conferred on the State Government by s.  6(2)  toamend  the schedule relating to exemption is  in  consonancewith  the  accepted  legislative practice  relating  to	 thetopic, and is not unconstitutional.(1) (1952) 3 S.T.C. 367(2) 276 U.S. 394 ; 72 L. Ed. 624, 629.437The  contention	 of the appellant that the  notification  inquestion  is  ultra  vires must, in  our  opinion,  fail  onanother ground.	 The basic assumption on which the  argumentof  the	 appellant proceeds is that the power to  amend	 theschedule conferred on the Government under s. 6(2) is whollyindependent  of the grant of exemption under s. 6(1) of	 theAct,  and that, in consequence, while an exemption under  s.6(1)  would  stand, an amendment thereof by  a	notificationunder  s. 6(2) might be bad.  But that, in our	opinion,  isnot the correct interpretation of the section.	The two sub-sections together form integral parts of a single enactment,the  object of which is to grant exemption from taxation  inrespect of such goods and to such extent as may from time totime  be determined by the State Government.  Section  6(1),therefore, cannot have an operation independent of s.  6(2),and an exemption granted thereunder is conditional and	sub-ject to any modification that might be issued under s. 6(2).In  this view, the impugned notification is intra vires	 andnot open to challenge.But  on our finding on the first question that the  impugnedprovisions  of	the Act are ultra vires the  powers  of	 theProvincial  Legislature	 under Entry 48 in List	 11  in	 theseventh	 Schedule,  we should set aside the  orders  of	 theCourt  below, and direct that the respondents be  restrainedfrom  enforcing the provisions of the Central Provinces	 andBerar Sales Tax Act, 1947, in so far as they seek to  imposea  tax	on  construction works.	 It should  be	made  clear,however,  in  accordance with what we have  already  stated,that  the prohibition against imposition of tax is  only  inrespect	 of contracts which are single and  indivisible	 andnot  of	 contracts  which  are	a  combination	of  distinctcontracts  for	sale  of materials and for  work,  and	thatnothing	 that  we have said in this judgment shall  bar	 thesales  tax authorities from deciding "whether  a  particularcontract falls within one category or the other and imposinga  tax	on  the agreement of sale of  materials,  where	 thecontract  belongs to the latter category.  The parties	willbear their own costs throughout,438BOSE  J.-I  agree  except that I prefer not  to	 express  anopinion	 about	the validity of the power conferred  on	 theState  Government  by s. 6(2) of the Central  Provinces	 andBerar Sales Tax Act, 1947, to amend the schedule in the	 wayin which it has been amended here.  I would leave that	openfor future decision.	       Appeals allowed.