PETITIONER:KULDIP SINGH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF PUNJAB AND ANOTHER.DATE OF JUDGMENT:15/02/1956BENCH:ACT:Complaint by Court-Complaint by Senior Subordinate Judge  ofoffences  committed in a proceeding before  the	 SubordinateJudge	of  the	 first	class-Validity-Competency   of	 theAdditional Judge to entertain appeal-Power of High Court  inrevision-Code of Criminal Procedure (Act V of 1898), ss. 195(3),  476,  476-A, 476-B, 439-The Punjab Courts Act  (VI  of1918),	ss. 18,21-Code of Civil Procedure (Act V of  .1908),s. 115.HEADNOTE:The  question as to which Court is competent to make a	com-plaint	under  s. 476-A read with s. 195(3) of the  Code  ofCriminal Procedure where none wag made by the Court in whichthe  offence  was  committed or its  successor	Court,	willdepend on the nature of the proceeding in which the  offencewas  committed, whether civil, criminal or revenue,  and  onthe  hierarchy	of superior Courts to which an	appeal	fromsuch  proceeding will ordinarily lie as contemplated  by  s.195(3)	of  the Code, apart from such exceptions as  may  bemade  in  respect of any particular matters by	any  specialnotifications  or laws.	 Where, however, appeals  ordinarilylie to different courts, the one of the lowest grade will bethe Court competent to make the complaint.Wadero Abdul Bahman v. Sadhuram, ([1930] 32 Cr.	 L. J. 1012]and M. S. Sheriff v. Govindan (A.I.R. 1951 Mad. 1060, 1061),not approved.Under  the  Punjab Courts Act of 1918 and the  hierarchy  ofcivil Courts established thereby, appeals from the Courts ofthe  various  subordinate  Judges  who	constitute  distinctCourts do not ordinarily lie to the Senior Subordinate Judgebut  to the District Judge and the Court of  the  AdditionalJudge is not a Court of coordinate jurisdiction with that ofthe District Judge.  The Act neither mentions nor recognisesan Additional District Judge as a Court of that hierarchy.Consequently, in a case where offences under ss. 193 and 471of the Indian Penal Code were alleged to have been committedin a civil proceeding in the Court of a Subordinate Judge ofthe  first class, exercising jurisdiction under	 the  PunjabCourts Act of 1918, and neither he nor his successor made  acomplaint or rejected the application for the making of	 it,the   Senior  Subordinate  Judge  had  no  jurisdiction	  toentertain  the	matter and make the complaint  either  as  aCourt of appeal under s. 476-B or of Its own authority unders.  476-A  of  the  Code  of  Criminal	Procedure  and	 theAdditional17126Judge,	by  wrongly  describing	 himself  as  an  AdditionalDistrict Judge, could not assume a jurisdiction which he didnot possess under those sections.The  High  Court has power to revise orders  of	 subordinateCourts	made without jurisdiction both under s. 439  of	 theCode  of Criminal Procedure and under s. 115 of the Code  ofCivil  Procedure, therefore, it was not necessary to  decideunder  Art.  136  of the Constitution  which  of  these	 twosections  applied  in the present case, but the	 High  Courterred  in  upholding  the  complaint  made  by	the   SeniorSubordinate Judge because that court had no jurisdiction  tomake the complaint.The High Court is not a Court to which the Subordinate Judgeof  the first class is subordinate within the meaning of  s.196(3)	of  the Code of Criminal Procedure  and	 could	not,therefore,  make  the  complaint of its	 own  authority	 andshould	have remitted the application to the District  Judgefor disposal according to law.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: CriminalAppeal No. 34 of 1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedthe  7th  June	1954 of the Punjab High Court  at  Simla  inCriminal  Revision  No.	 985  of 1953  arising	out  of	 thejudgment  and order dated the 9th May 1953 of the  Court  ofthe Additional District Judge, Ambala.Ramalal Anand and I. S. Sawhney, for the appellant.Gopal Singh and P. G. Gokhale, for respondent No. I.Jindra Lal and Gopal Singh, for respondent No. 2.1956.  February 15.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyBOSE  J.-This appeal was argued at great length	 because  ofthe  wide divergence of judicial opinion that centres  roundsections  195 and 476 of the Criminal Procedure	 Code.	 Thequestion  is about the validity of a complaint made  againstthe appellant for perjury and for using a forged document asgenuine in the following circumstances. The second respondent Amar Singh filed a civil127suit  against the appellant for recovery of a large  sum  ofmoney  on the basis of a mortgage in the Court of Mr. E.  F.Barlow,	 a  Subordinate	 Judge	of  the	 First	class.	 Theappellant  filed a receipt which purported to show that	 Rs.35  000 had been paid towards satisfaction of  the  mortgage(whether in full satisfaction or part is not clear), and  inthe witness box he swore that he had paid the money and	 wasgiven the receipt.  Mr. Barlow held that the receipt did notappear	to  be a genuine document and that  the	 appellant'sevidence was not true.	Accordingly he passed a	 preliminarydecree	against	 the appellant for the full  amount  of	 theclaim on 15-3-1950 and a final decree followed on 15-7-1950.There was an appeal to the High Court but that was dismissedon 9-5-1951.  The High Court also held that the receipt	 wasa very auspicious document and that the appellant's evidencewas not reliable.The  plaintiff then made an application in the Court of	 Mr.W. Augustine, who is said to have succeeded Mr. Barlow as  aSubordinate  Judge  of	the  first  class,  asking  that   acomplaint be filed against the, appellant under sections 193and  471 of the Indian Penal Code.  But before it  could  bebeard  Mr.  Augustine was transferred and it seems  that  noSubordinate  Judge of the first class was appointed  in	 hisplace; instead, Mr. K. K. Gujral, a Subordinate Judge of thefourth	class,	was sent to this area and be seems  to	havebeen  asked  to	 decide the matter.  But as he	was  only  aSubordinate  Judge of the fourth class be made a  report  tothe  District Judge that he had no jurisdiction because	 theoffences  had been committed in the Court of  a	 SubordinateJudge  of  the first class.  The  District  Judge  thereupontransferred the matter to the Senior Subordinate Judge,	 Mr.Pitam Singh, and that officer made the complaint that is nowunder consideration. The  appellant	 filed an appeal against Mr.  Pitam  Singh'sorder  to  the Additional District Judge, Mr. J.  N.  Kapur.This  learned Judge held that the Senior  Subordinate  Judge(Mr.  Pitam Singh) had no jurisdiction to make the complaintbecause he was128not  Mr. Barlow's successor.  He also held, on	the  merits,that there was no prima facie case. The  matter  went  to the High Court in  revision  and	 thelearned High Court Judge who beard the matter held that	 theSenior	Subordinate  Judge  had jurisdiction  and  that	 thematerial disclosed a prima facie case.	Accordingly, he	 setaside the Additional District Judge's order and restored theorder of the Senior Subordinate Judge making the complaint.  This	raises	three  questions.  The	first  concerns	 thejurisdiction of the Senior Subordinate Judge Mr. Pitam Singhto  entertain the application and make the  complaint.	 Thesecond	 is  whether  the  Additional  District	 Judge	 hadjurisdiction  to  entertain  an	 appeal	 against  Mr.  PitamSingh's	 order; and the third is whether the High Court	 hadpower  to reverse the Additional District Judge's  order  inrevision.   We	will  first  deal  with	 Mr.  Pitam  Singh'sjurisdiction  to  make	the  complaint.	  This	question  isgoverned  by the Criminal Procedure Code and by	 the  PunjabCourts	Act, 1918.  We will examine the	 Criminal  ProcedureCode first.  The  offences said to have been committed are	 ones  undersections 471 and 193 of the Indian Penal Code, namely, usingas  genuine  a forged document knowing it to be	 forged	 andperjury.   Section  195(1)  (b)	 and  (c)  of  the  CriminalProcedure Code prohibit any Court from taking cognizance  ofeither	of  these two offences except on  the  complaint  inwriting of theCourt concerned "or of some other Court to which such Court issubordinate". The  offences	were  committed in the	Court  of  Mr.	E.F.Barlow, a Subordinate Judge of the first class.	 It seems tohave  been  accepted that Mr. Gujral was  not  Mr.  Barlow'ssuccessor  because  be was only a Subordinate Judge  of	 thefourth	class, but whether he was the successor or  not,  heneither made the complaint nor rejected the application.  Hedeclined   to	do  either  because  he	 said  be   had	  nojurisdiction;  so also neither Mr. Barlow nor Mr.  Augustinemade a complaint or rejected the application.  That carries129us on to section 476-A of the Criminal Procedure Code.Section	 476-A	states	that when the  Court  in  which	 theoffence	 is  said  to have been committed  neither  makes  acomplaint  nor	rejects an application for the making  of  acomplaint,  "the  Court	 to  which  such  former  Court	  issubordinate  within the meaning of section 195,	 sub-section(3)" may take action under section 476. Section   476	authorises  the	 appropriate  Court,   afterrecording a finding that it is expedient in the interests ofjustice,  etc., to, among other things, make a complaint  inwriting	 and forward it to a Magistrate of the	first  classhaving jurisdiction.  That was done by Mr. Pitam Singh.	  Sothe only question we have to decide on this part of the caseis  whether the Court of the Senior Subordinate	 Judge	overwhich  Mr. Pitam Singh presided was the Court to  which	 theCourt  of Mr. Barlow was subordinate within the	 meaning  ofsection 195(3 ). Now it is to be noticed that subordination has been given aspecial	 meaning  in this section.  It is not  any  superiorCourt that has jurisdiction, nor yet the Court to which	 the"former	 Court"	 is subordinate for, what might	 be  termed,most  general  purposes, but only the Court to which  it  issubordinate within the meaning of section 195(3).Section 195(3) states that- "For the purposes of this section, a Court shall be  deemedto  be subordinate to the Court to which appeals  ordinarilylie from the appealable decrees or sentences of such  formerCourt, or in the case of a Civil Court from whose decrees noappeal	ordinarily  lies  to  the  principal  court   havingordinary original civil jurisdiction within the local limitsof whose jurisdiction such Civil Court is situate" and	thenfollows this proviso-"Provided that-(a)where  appeals lie to more than one Court, the  AppellateCourt  of inferior jurisdiction shall be the Court to  whichsuch Court shall be deemed to be subordinate; and130(b)  where  appeals  lie to a Civil and also  to  a  RevenueCourt,	such Court shall be deemed to be subordinate to	 theCivil  or Revenue Court according to the nature of the	caseor  proceeding	in  connection with  which  the	 offence  isalleged to have been committed".  These	 provisions have given rise to much conflict in	 theHigh  Courts.	The controversy has centred round  the	word"ordinarily".	One  class of case, of	which  Wadero  AbdulRahman	v. Sadhuram(1) is a sample, holds that	"ordinarily"means  "in  the	 majority  of cases"  and  that	 it  has  noreference  to the particular case in hand.  We do not  thinkthat  is right because that gives no meaning to the  provisoto  sub-clause (3).  If appeals lie to a  particular  Court,e.g.,  the District Court, in the majority of cases  and  toanother Court,say the High Court, only in a few cases,	thenthe inferior tribunal is a fixed quantity and so the need tochoose	between the inferior and the superior  Court  cannotarise.	 That  makes sub-clause (a) to the  proviso  otiose;also, it does not necessarily follow that the appeal in	 themajority  of  cases will always lie to the  inferior  Court.Cases may occur in which the majority of appeals would go tothe  higher  of two given tribunals; and in  any  case	thisinterpretation	has  the disadvantage that a  Court  may  becompelled  to call for and go into a mass of  statistics  toascertain  which  of two Courts entertains the	majority  ofappeals over a given period of time, as well as to determinewhat is the appropriate period of time.  Another view considers that the word means that the higherCourt is the one to which there is an unrestricted right  ofappeal	and so cannot apply when any restriction  intervenessuch as when the right of appeal is limited to a  particularclass of cases or is hedged in by conditions.  This was	 theview taken in  M.   S. Sheriff v. Govindan(2).Other  views  are  also possible but we	 do  not  intend  toexplore	 them.	In our opinion, the matter is to  be  viewedthus.	The  first  question  to be  asked  is	whether	 anydecrees, orders or sentences of the original Court(1) [1930) 32 Cr.  L.J. 1012.  (2) A.I.R. I 1951 Mad.  1060,1061,131are appealable at all.	If they are not, and the Court is  aCivil Court, then,, under section 195(3), the appeal againstthe order making or refusing.to make a complaint will be  tothe principal Court of ordinary original civil jurisdiction.If, however, appeals from its various decrees and orders lieto  different Courts, then we have to see to which  of	themthey  "ordinarily"  lie and select the one of  lowest  gradefrom among them.  In determining the Court or Courts to which an appeal willordinarily  lie,  we  have  to see  which  Court  or  Courtsentertain  appeals  from  that	class  of  tribunal  in	 theordinary  way apart from special notifications or laws	thatlift the matter out of the general class.  Our meaning	willbe clearer when we turn to the case in hand and examine	 thePunjab Courts Act of 1918. Apart	 from  the  Courts  of	Small  Causes	and   Courtsestablished  under other enactments, the Punjab Courts	Act,1918  makes  provision for three classes  of  Civil  Courts,namely-(1)  the Court of the District Judge,(2)  the Court of the Additional Judge, and(3)  the Court of the Subordinate Judge. At the moment we are concerned with the Subordinate  Judge.Section 22 enables the State Government to fix the number ofSubordinate  Judges after consultation with the High  Court.The  local limit of jurisdiction of each of these Judges  isthe district in which he is appointed unless the High  Courtdefines	 a  different  limit (section  27).   The  pecuniarylimits are set out in section 26:  "The	jurisdiction  to  be exercised	in  civil  suits  asregards	  the  value  by  any  person  appointed  to  be   aSubordinate  Judge  shall be determined by  the	 High  Courteither by including him in a class or otherwise as it thinksfit". These	are  what might be termed the  ordinary	 powers	 andjurisdiction  of  these	 Courts.  But  sections	 29  and  30authorise the High Court to confer certain additional powersand jurisdiction on them.  We will deal with that later.132Next,  we  turn	 to the provisions  for	 appeal.   They	 aregoverned  by  section  39.   In the  absence  of  any  otherenactment for the time being in force, when the value of thesuit does not exceed five thousand rupees the appeal lies tothe  District  Judge, and in every other suit, to  the	HighCourt.	 But by sub-section (3) the High Court is  empoweredto direct by notification  "that appeals lying to the District Court from all or	 anyof  the decrees or orders passed in an original suit by	 anySubordinate   Judge  shall  be	preferred  to	such   other'Subordinate Judge as may be mentioned in the notification"and when that is done "such	other  Subordinate  Judge shall be deemed  to  be  aDistrict   Court  for  the  purposes  of  all	appeals	  sopreferred".  The  High  Court  availed itself  of	this  provision	 andprovided  that	appeals lying to the  District	Courts	fromdecrees	 or  orders passed by any Subordinate Judge  in	 twoclasses of case which are specified "shall be preferred to the Senior Subordinate Judge of	 thefirst  class  exercising  jurisdiction	within	such   CivilDistrict". There are thus three forums of appeal from the Court of theSubordinate  Judge depending on the nature of the  suit	 andits  value.  The question is whether in each of these  threeclasses	 of case the appeal can be said to lie	"ordinarily"to one or other of these appellate tribunals.  Applying	 therule  we  have	set  out above, the  appeal  to	 the  SeniorSubordinate  Judge cannot be termed "ordinary"	because	 thespecial appellate jurisdiction conferred by the Notificationis  not the ordinary jurisdiction of the Senior	 SubordinateJudge but an additional power which can only be exercised ina  certain limited class of case.  It is not a power  commonto all Subordinate Judges nor even to all Senior SubordinateJudges.	 Therefore, it cannot be said that appeals from	 theCourts of the various Subordinate Judges "ordinarily" lie tothe  Senior Subordinate Judge.	Consequently, that Court  isnot one of the appellate tribunals contemplated133by  section  195(3) of the Criminal Procedure Code  and	 itsproviso.   But	appeals do "ordinarily" lie  either  to	 theDistrict Court or the High Court; and as the District  Courtis the lower of these two tribunals that must be regarded asthe appellate authority for the purposes of section 476-B ofthe Criminal Procedure Code.Now  it	 is to be observed that this is a  purely  objectiveanalysis is and is not subjective to any particular  suit.Inthe present suit, the value of the suit was over  Rs. 5,000,so the appeal would have lain to the High    Court,  but  weare not concerned with that be cause section 195(3) does notsay that the appellate authority within the meaning of	thatsection	 shall	be  the Court to which	the  appeal  in	 theparticular case under consideration would ordinarily lie butgenerally"the  Court  to	 which	appeals	 ordinarily  lie  from	 theappealable decrees or sentences of such former Court". It  would, however, be wrong to say that the nature of	 theproceedings in the case must be wholly ignored because	sub-clause (b) to the proviso to sub-section (3) states that "where appeals lie to a Civil and also to a Revenue  Court,such.  Court shall be deemed to be subordinate to the  Civilor  Revenue  Court according to the nature of  the  case  orproceeding". Therefore, to that limited extent the nature ofthe  proceedings  must be taken into account, but  once	 thegenus  of  the	proceedings is	determined,  namely  whethercivil,	criminal or revenue, the heirarchy of  the  superiorCourts	for these purposes will be determined, first by	 therules that apply in their special cases and next by the rulein   section  195(3)  which  we	 have  just  expounded	 andexplained.M.   S.	 Sheriff v. The State of Madras and  Others,(1)	 wasquoted	but  the present point was  neither  considered	 nordecided there.The  next  question  is	 whether the  Court  of	 the  SeniorSubordinate  Judge is the same Court as Mr. Barlow's  Court,namely the Court of the Subordinate(1)  [1954] S. C. R. 1144,1147.18134Judge of the first class.  That depends on whether there  isonly  one Court of the Subordinate Judge in  each  district,presided  over by a number of Judges, or whether each  Courtis a separate Court in itself.	That turns on the provisionsof the Punjab Courts Act.  We  make  it	clear that our decision	 on  this  point  isconfined to the Punjab Act.  We understand that similar Actsin  other  States  are differently worded so  that  what  wedecide	for the Punjab may not bold good elsewhere.  We	 saythis  because rulings were cited before us from other  partsof  India  which take differing views. We do not  intend  torefer  to them because it would not be right to examine	 thelanguage   of  Acts  that  are	not  directly	before	 us.Accordingly, we confine ourselves to the Punjab Act (Act  VIof 1918).  Section  18  of the Punjab Courts Act	 states	 that  thereshall be the following classes of Courts, namely"................................................(3) the Court  of  the	Subordinate Judge".Section 22 provides that "the  State  Government  may........  fix  the	 number	  ofSubordinate Judges to be appointed".Section	 26,  which  has  already  been	 quoted,  fixes	 thepecuniary limits of their jurisdiction.	 Then comes  section27 defining the local limits of their jurisdiction: "(1) The local limits of the jurisdiction of a	 SubordinateJudge shall be such as the High Court may define. (2) When  the	High Court posts a Subordinate	Judge  to  adistrict,  the	local limits of the district shall,  in	 theabsence	 of any direction to the contrary, be deemed  to  bethe local limits of his jurisdiction". From  there  we go to the Notification.  It is	 High  CourtNotification No. 4 dated 3-1-1923.  It makes four classes ofSubordinate Judges with effect from 5-1-1923 "in respect of the jurisdiction to be exercised by them  inoriginal suits, namely:- Class I-Subordinate Judges exercising juris-135diction without limit as to the value of the cases;Class II-Subordinate Judges exercising jurisdiction in casesof which the value does not exceed Rs. 5.000;Class  III-Subordinate	Judges	exercising  jurisdiction  incases of which the value does not exceed Rs. 2,000;Class IV-Subordinate Judges exercising jurisdiction in casesof which the value does not exceed Rs. 1,000.When a Subordinate Judge is appointed to any of the  classesconstituted  by	 this Notification, he	shall  exercise	 thejurisdiction  here in before defined for the class to  whichhe  is	appointed  within  the local  limits  of  the  civildistrict to which he may be posted from time to time".  This	gives  rise to three points of view.   According  toone,  there is only one Court of the Subordinate  Judge	 foreach  district	and  every other  Subordinate  Judge  is  anadditional  Judge  to  that Court.  This  is  based  on	 thelanguage of section 18, and the High Court Notification	 is,under that view, interpreted as dividing the Judges of	thatone   Court  into  four	 categories  but  not  as   creatingindependent Courts.  Section 26 is there read as  empoweringthe   High   Court  to	include	  each	 Subordinate   Judgeindividually  on appointment into a given class	 within	 theone Court and not to turn him into a separate Court.According  to  the second view, there are  four	 classes  ofSubordinate Judge's Courts in the Punjab because of the HighCourt Notification.  The argument here runs that section  18must  be  read	with section 26, and as the  High  Court  isempowered  to divide Subordinate Judges in a  district	intoclasses	 it must mean that each class forms  an	 independentCourt,	for  according to this point of view,  it  would  beanomalous  to  have Judges of the one  Court  invested	withdiffering  pecuniary  jurisdictions because that  is  alwaysregarded as inherent to the Court.  The position created  bythe Act, it is said, is not the same as the one that  ariseswhen work is -administratively distributed among  AdditionalJudges of the same136Court because the jurisdiction and powers of the Judges	 areunaffected  by such distribution and there remains  the	 oneCourt with one inherent and territorial jurisdiction despitethe distribution. The third view is that each Subordinate Judge is a separateand independent Court in himself and it is pointed out	thatsection 27 invests each Judge personally with a	 territorialjurisdiction and not the Court, and so also section 26.  Under section 33 the power of control (apart from the HighCourt)	over all civil Courts within the local limits  of  aDistrict  Judge's jurisdiction is with him, and	 section  34empowers the District Judge to distribute any civil business"cognizable  by .... the Courts under his control....  amongsuch  Courts in such manner as he thinks fit".	 The  SeniorSubordinate  Judge  does not therefore appear to  be  vestedwith  either  administrative or judicial  control  over	 anyother Subordinate Judge except in so far as he is a Court ofappeal in certain specified classes of case. In  our opinion, the Senior Subordinate Judge who made	 thecomplaint  had	no jurisdiction to make it,  either  as	 theoriginal  Court	 which tried the suit, or as  the  appellateauthority  under  section 476-B of  the	 Criminal  ProcedureCode.  It is not enough that he also had first class  powersbecause be was not the same Court.  That is not to say	thata  successor could not have been appointed to Mr. Barlow  soas  to	establish  continuity in the  Court  over  which  hepresided.  It is possible that one could have been appointedand indeed it seems to have been assumed that Mr.  Augustinewas  his  successor.  But as Mr. Augustine did not  take  upthis matter we need not decide that point.  What we think isclear  is  that	 Mr.  Pitam  Singh  was	 not  a	  successor,especially  as appeals lay to him from certain decisions  ofthe Subordinate Judges in his district.	 It would be unusualto  provide an appeal from one Judge of a Court	 to  anothersingle	Judge  of  the same Court.  It would  be  even	moreanomalous to have an appeal from the decision of a judge lieto his successor in office.  Even137in the High Courts, where there are Letters Patent  appeals,the  appeal is always heard by a Division Bench of at  leasttwo Judges; nor can this be treated as a case where a  Courtwith inherent jurisdiction decides the matter as an originaltribunal  though,  owing  to territorial  or  other  similarclassification not affecting inherent jurisdiction, the caseshould	have gone to some other tribunal of  co-ordinate  orlesser authority.  Section 193(1) of the Criminal  ProcedureCode  imposes  a  definite bar which cannot  be	 ignored  orwaived any more than the prohibitions under sections 132 and197  and,  just	 as  the sanctions  provided  for  in  thosesections  cannot  be given by any authority  save  the	onesspecified, so here, only the Courts mentioned in section 195(1) (b) and (c) can remove the bar and make the complaint.This  also appears to accord with the Punjab practice.	 TheRules  and  Orders  of the Punjab  High	 Court	reproduce  aNotification of the High Court dated 16-5-1935 as amended on23-2-1940,  at page 3 of Chapter 20-B of Volume I, where  itis said in paragraph 2- "It   is  further  directed  the  Court  of   such   SeniorSubordinate Judge of the first class shall be deemed to be aDistrict Court, etc." This  appears to regard each Senior Subordinate Judge as  aCourt in himself and not merely as the presiding officer  ofthe Court of the Subordinate Judge. Section  39(3) of the Punjab Courts Act is  also  relevant.It states that- "the  High  Court may by notification direct  that  appealslying  to the District Court from all or any of the  decreesor  orders  passed in an original suit	by  any	 SubordinateJudge shall be preferred to such other Subordinate Judge  asmay be mentioned in the notification, and the appeals  shallthereupon  be preferred accordingly, and the Court  of	suchother  Subordinate Judge shall 'De deemed to be	 a  DistrictCourt, etc."  Now this permits an appeal from one Subordinate Judge  toanother	 and the words the "Court of such other	 SubordinateJudge" indicate that the Subordi-138nate Judge to whom the appeal is preferred is a separate anddistinct Court.The  position  thus reduces itself to  this.   The  originalCourt  made  no	 complaint; section 476-A  of  the  CriminalProcedure Code was therefore attracted and the	jurisdictionto make the complaint was transferred to the Court to  whichMr.  Barlow's  Court was subordinate within the	 meaning  ofsection 195.  That Court, as we have seen, was the Court  ofthe District Judge.  Now, when the matter was reported to the District Judge byMr. K. K. Gujral, the District Judge dealt with it.  He	 hadauthority  under section 476-A either to make the  complainthimself	 or  to	 reject the application.   He  did  neither.Instead,  he  sent  it	to  Mr.	 Pitam	Singh  who  had	  nojurisdiction.  Of course, the District Judge could have sentit  to the original Court or to the successor Judge of	thatCourt  if there was one, but he sent it to a  Court  withoutjurisdiction,	so  his	 order	was  ineffective   and	 thesubsequent   order   of	  Mr.  Pitam   Singh   was   withoutjurisdiction.	That still left the District Court  free  toact  under  section 476-A when the matter came	back  to  itagain.	 This time it came by way of appeal from  Mr.  PitamSingh's	 order	but  that made	no  difference	because	 thesubstance of the matter was this: the original Court had nottaken any action, therefore it was incumbent on the DistrictJudge to make an appropriate order either under section 476-A or by sending it for disposal to the only other Court thathad  jurisdiction,  namely  the	 original  Court.   But	 theDistrict  Judge did not deal with it.  The application	wentinstead	 to  the Additional District Judge and what  we	 nowhave to see is whether the Additional District Judge had therequisite power and authority.	That depends on whether	 theAdditional District Judge was a Judge of the District  Courtor  whether he formed a separate Court of his own  like	 thevarious Subordinate Judges; and that in turn depends on	 thelanguage of the Punjab Courts Act. As  we	 have already pointed out, section 18  of  that	 Actstates that, in addition to Courts of Small Causes139and Courts established under other enactments,  "there shall be the following classes of CivilCourts, namely:--(1)  The Court of the District Judge;(2)  The Court of the Additional Judge; and(3)  The Court of the Subordinate Judge".The Court of the Additional Judge is therefore constituted adistinct  class of Court, and it is to be observed that	 theAct  speaks of the Court of the Additional Judge and not  ofthe  Additional District Judge as is the case  with  certainother  Acts in other parts of India.  This language is	alsoto be compared with articles 214 and 216 of the Constitutionwhich  constitute  and define the constitution of  the	HighCourts in India.	``214(1).  There  shall	 be a High  Court  for	eachState''.   "216 . Every High Court shall consist of a Chief  Justiceand such other Judges as the President may from time to timedeem it necessary to appoint".The  Punjab  Courts  Act nowhere  speaks  of  an  AdditionalDistrict  Judge	 or of an Additional Judge to  the  DistrictCourt;	also,  the Additional Judge is not a  Judge  of	 co-ordinate   judicial  authority	with  the  District   Judge.Section 21 (I) states that-   "When  the  business pending before	any  District  Judgerequires  the aid of an Additional Judge or Judges  for	 itsspeedy	disposal,  the	State Government  may  appoint	suchAdditional Judges as may be necessary".But these Judges cannot discharge all the judicial functionsof the District Judge.	Their jurisdiction is a limited	 oneand is limited to the discharge of such functions as may  beentrusted  to  them by the District  Judge.   Section  21(2)states that "An  Additional Judge so appointed shall discharge  any  ofthe functions of a District Judge' which the District  Judgemay assign to him".It is true that sub-section (2) goes on to say that  "in the discharge of those functions he shall exercise thesame  powers  as the District Judge" but  these	 powers	 arelimited to the cases with which140he is entitled to deal.	 Thus, if his functions are confinedto  the	 hearing  of appeals  he  cannot  exercise  originaljurisdiction and vice versa.  But if he is invested with thefunctions  of  an appellate tribunal at the  District  Courtlevel,	then he can exercise all the powers of the  DistrictJudge  in dealing with appeals which the District  Judge  iscompetent to entertain.	 This is a very different thing fromthe administrative distribution of work among the Judges  ofa sin-ale Court entitled to divide itself into sections	 andsit  as division Courts.  When the Chief Justice of  a	HighCourt  or  the District Judge of a District Court  makes  anadministrative	allotment  of work among the Judges  of	 hisCourt,	their jurisdiction and powers are not affected,	 andif work allotted to one Judge goes to another by mistake hisjurisdiction to entertain the matter and deal with it is notaffected.   But that is not the scheme of the Punjab  CourtsAct  and the mere fact that Mr. J. N. Kapur  called  himselfthe  Additional District Judge and purported to act as	suchcannot affect the matter of his jurisdiction.  As the PunjabCourts	 Act  does  not	 contemplate  the   appointment	  ofAdditional  Judges  to	the  District  Court,  none  can  beappointed.   The  Court	 contemplated is the  Court  of	 theAdditional  Judge  which  is  in the  nature  of  a  specialtribunal set up for a special purpose and invested with	 thepowers	of  a District Judge when dealing with	the  mattersspecially entrusted to its jurisdiction.  We hold  thereforethat  the Court of the Additional Judge is not-	 a  divisionCourt of the Court of the District Judge but a separate	 anddistinct Court of its own.  Now,	as  we have seen, when the original Court  does	 notmake a complaint under section 476 of the Criminal ProcedureCode  or reject the application, then the only	other  Courtcompetent  to  exercise these powers is the Court  to  whichappeals	 from  the original Court  "ordinarily	lie".	ThatCourt,	in the present case, was the Court of  the  DistrictJudge  and not the Court of the Additional Judge Mr.  J.  N.Kapur.	Therefore, Mr. J. N. Kapur's order was also  withoutjurisdiction.141Mr. Kapur's order went up to the High Court in revision, andthe  next question we have to determine is whether the	HighCourt  had  jurisdiction to entertain the revision  and	 theextent	of  its powers. Keshardeo Chamria  v.  Radha  KissenChamria	 and Other8(1) and many cases from the	High  Courtswere  cited  which  show that there is	much  difference  ofopinion about this but we are fortunately not called upon todecide	that  question because this is not a  case  where  aCourt  with jurisdiction has acted under section 476 of	 theCriminal Procedure Code of its own motion or has acted as  aCourt of appeal under section 476-B.  As we have shown,	 theCourt of the Senior Subordinate Judge Mr. Pitam Singh had nojurisdiction  to entertain this matter either as a Court  ofappeal	under  section 476-B or of its own  authority  undersection	 476-A.	 The Additional Judge Mr. J. N.	 Kapur,	 whohas called himself an Additional District Judge, also had nojurisdiction under either section.  But he seised himself ofthe case and has rejected the application for the making  ofa  complaint.  He therefore assumed a jurisdiction which  hedid  not possess and that at once attracted  the  revisionaljurisdiction of the High Court.  Now  it  does	 not  matter  in  this	case  whether	thatjurisdiction   lies  under  section  439  of  the   CriminalProcedure  Code or under section 115 of the Civil  ProcedureCode  because  under either of these two sections  the	HighCourt  is  entitled  to	 set  aside  an	 order	of  a  Courtsubordinate  to it which has assumed a jurisdiction that  itdoes  not possess.  Therefore, in so far as the	 High  Courtset  aside the order of Mr. J. N. Kapur it was	right.	 Butwhere  it went wrong was in upholding the complaint made  bythe Senior Subordinate Judge.  As we have shown, that  Courthad no jurisdiction to make the complaint .  The  next question is whether the High Court could  itselfhave  made the complaint in this particular case because  ifit  could  have	 done so then we would	not  have  used	 ourextraordinary  powers  of appeal under article	136  to	 setright what would in those circum-(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 136, 150 to 152.19142stances	 have been a mere procedural irregularity.   But  asour  opinion is that the High Court had no  jurisdiction  toact  under  section  476  in this  case,  we  are  bound  tointerfere.   As	 we  have shown,  section  195	contains  anexpress prohibition against taking cognizance of the kind ofcomplaint  we have here unless the bar is lifted  either  bythe  original Court or the Court to which it is	 subordinatewithin	the meaning of section 195(3).	Those are  the	onlyCourts	invested with jurisdiction to lift the ban and	makethe  complaint.	  Had this been a case in  which  the  High'Court  was the superior Court within the meaning of  section195(3)	the  matter would have been different,	but  as	 theoriginal Court was neither the original Court nor the  Courtto  which the original Court was subordinate,  according  tothe  special  definition  in  section  195(3),	it  had	  nojurisdiction  to  make the complaint of its  own  authority.Therefore,  all that the High Court could, and should,	havedone was to send the case to the District Judge for disposalaccording to law.  We will, therefore,, now do what the HighCourt should have done.  We  were  asked not to allow the proceedings to  pend	 anylonger but we are not prepared to do that in this case.	  Ifthe  view  taken by Mr. Pitam Singh and the  High  Court  isright,	 then	a  serious  offence  of	 a  kind   that	  isunfortunately  becoming	 increasingly common, and  which  isdifficult  to bring home to,an offender, has been  committedagainst	 the administration of justice, and if the  DistrictCourt  is  satisfied, as were Mr. Pitam Singh and  the	HighCourt, that a prima facie case has been made out and that itis  expedient in the interests of justice that	a  complaintshould be filed, then it is but right that the matter shouldbe  tried in the criminal Courts.  We will not say  anythingmore  lest it prejudice the appellant.	The  District  Judgewill of course be free to exercise his own discretion.	 Theapplication  for the making of a complaint will	 accordinglybe remitted to the District Judge who will now deal with it.143