PETITIONER:KAVALAPPARA KOTTARATHIL KOCHUNNIMOOPIL NAYAR	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF MADRAS AND OTHERS(and connected petition)DATE OF JUDGMENT:04/03/1959BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR  725		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 316 CITATOR INFO : D	    1960 SC 321	 (23) R	    1960 SC 554	 (15) R	    1962 SC 797	 (20) R	    1962 SC1621	 (75,81,111) RF	    1963 SC 996	 (6) RF	    1991 SC1070	 (3)ACT:       Fundamental   Rights,  Enforcement  of  Maintainability	 of       Petition-Powers	and jurisdictions of  Supreme  Court-Extent       Constitution of India, Art. 32.HEADNOTE:The  petitioner in Petition No. 143 was the Moopil  Nair  ofthe  Kavalappara sthanam and, as the sthanee, claimed to  bethe   sole  proprietor	of  the	 sthanam  properties.	 Therespondents Nos. 2 to 17, who were the junior members of theKavalappara  tarward  or family, resisted the claim  on	 theground that the properties were tarward properties and	theyhad  rights  in	 them.	There  was  litigation	between	 theparties	 and ultimately the Privy Council held in favour  ofthe  petitioner.   The petitioner transferred  some  of	 theproperties  to his wife and two daughters and son  and	theywere  the  petitioners	in the	two  other  petitions.	 Theparties were governed by the Marumakkathayam Law and in 1955the   Madras  Legislature,  purporting	to  remove   certainmisapprehensions evident in decisions of courts, passed	 theMadras	Marumakkathayani (Removal of Doubts) Act, 1955	(Act32 of 1955) which by s. 2 provided as follows:-"  2.  Certain kinds of sthanam properties  declared  to  betarward properties :-Notwithstanding any decision of  Court,any sthanam in respect of which-(a)there  is or had been at any time an	 intermingling	ofthe  properties	 of the sthanam and the	 properties  of	 thetarward, or(b)the	members	 of the tarwad have been  receiving  main-tenance	 from  the  properties	purporting  to	be   sthanamproperties  as	of  right, or in pursuance of  a  custom  orotherwise, or(c)there  had at any time been a vacancy caused	 by  therebeing  no male member of the tarwad eligible to	 succeed  tothe sthanam,shall  be  deemed to be and shall be deemed always  to	havebeen   a   Marumakkathayam   tarwad   and   the	  propertiesappertaining  to  such a sthanam shall be deemed to  be	 andshall be deemed always to have been properties belonging  tothe   tarwad   to  which  the  provisions  of	the   MadrasMarumakkathayam Act, 1932, (Madras Act XXII Of 1932),  shallapply."317Immediately   after   the  publication	of  the	  Act,	 therespondents  Nos.  2 to 17, published notices in  the  pressthat by reason of the passing of the Act, Kavalappara estatehad  become  their tarwad property and that rents  could  bepaid  to the sthanee only as the Karnavan of the  propertiesand  not  otherwise.  The notices further  stated  that	 thedonees	under the two deeds of gift executed by the  sthaneewere  not  entitled to the properties conveyed to  them	 andshould not be paid any rents at all.  One of the respondents-filed	a partition suit and others also contemplated  doingthe same.  The petitioners sought for a writ of mandamus  orany other writ or order directing the respondents to forbearfrom enforcing the impugned Act against the sthanee and	 thesthanam estate and declaring the Act to be  unconstitutionaland invalid.  Preliminary objection was raised on behalf  ofsome  of  the respondents as to the maintainability  of	 thepetitions  and	it was contended that (1) the prayer  for  awrit  of  mandamus Was not maintainable since there  was  anadequate  remedy in the partition suit filed by one  of	 therespondents  ;	(2) that violation of right of	property  byprivate	 individuals  was  not within the  purview  of	Art.19(1)(f)  or  Art. 31(1) and the remedy was not	 by  way  ofapplication  under  Art. 32; (3) that no  application  underArt.  32  could be maintained until the State had  taken  orthreatened  to take any action under the impugned  law	thatwould  infringe fundamental rights; (4) that the  proceedingunder Art. 32 could not be converted into or equated with  adeclaratory  suit under s. 42 Of the Specific Relief Act  inand  (5) that this court could not, on an application  underArt.  32, embark upon an enquiry into disputed questions  offact.Held  (per Das, C. J., Bhagwati, Sinha and Subba Rao,  jj.),that  all  the	contentions must be negatived  and  all	 thepreliminary objections must fail.The  right to enforce a fundamental right conferred  by	 theConstitution  was itself a fundamental right  guaranteed  byArt. 32 of the Constitution and this court could not  refuseto  entertain a petition under that Article  simply  becausethe  petitioner might have any other adequate,	alternative,legal remedy.Rashid Ahmed v. Municipal Board, Kairana, [1950] S.C.R.	 566and  Romesh  Thappar v. The State of Madras,  [1950]  S.C.R.594, referred to.In the instant cases as the grievance of the petitioners wasprimarily  against  the impugned Act passed  by	 the  MadrasLegislature, which was a State as defined by Art. 12 of	 theConstitution and the dispute was not one between two sets ofprivate	 individuals but between the petitioners on the	 onehand and the State and persons claiming under a law made  bythe State on the other, Art. 32 must apply.P.D. Shamdasani v. Central Bank of India Ltd., [1952] S.C.R.391, distinguished and held inapplicable.Where an enactment such as the impugned Act, unlike318others that contemplated some further action to be taken  bythe   State  after  the	 enactment  had	 come  into   force,automatically  took away or abridged a person's	 fundamentalrights	immediately it came into force, there was no  reasonwhy the aggrieved person should not immediately be  entitledto seek the' remedy under Art. 32 Of the Constitution.State  of Bombay v. United, Motors (India)  Limited,  [1953]S.C.R.	1069  and Himmatlal Harilal Mehta v.  The  State  ofMadhya Pradesh, [1954] S.C.R. 122, referred to.In view of the language used in S. 2 of the impugned Act andits  effect,  there could be no doubt that  the	 petitionerscould legitimately complain that their fundamental right  tohold  and  dispose  of	the  sthanam  properties  have	beenviolated by the action of the Legislature.Article 32 of the Constitution conferred wide powers on thisCourt  and such powers were not confined to the	 issuing  ofprerogative  writs alone.  In appropriate cases, this  courthad the right in its discretion to frame its writs or orderssuitable  to the exigencies created by enactments.   It	 wasclear  on the authorities that this Court could,  where	 theoccasion  so  required, make even a declaratory	 order	withconsequential relief under Art. 32 of the Constitution.Chiranjit Lal Chowdhury v. The Union of India, [1950] S.C.R.goo, Rashid Ahmed v. Municipal Board, Kairana, [1950] S.C.R.566,  T. C. Basappa v. T. Nagappa, [1955] 1 S.C.R.  250	 andEbrahim	 Vazir Marat v. The State of Bombay,  [1954]  S.C.R.933, relied on.Maharaj	 Umeg Singh v. The State Of Bombay, [1955] 2  S.C.R.164, considered.This court would fail in its duty as the custodian and	pro-tector	of the fundamental rights if it were to	 decline  toentertain  a  petition	under  Art.  32	 simply	 because  itinvolved  the determination of disputed questions  of  fact.Clause	(2) of Art. 32 conferred on this court the power  toissue  directions  or  orders  or  writs  of  various  kindsmentioned  therein  and	 in dismissing a  petition,  it	 hadeither	to hold that any particular writ asked for  was	 notappropriate  to	 the  occasion or that	the  petitioner	 hadfailed	to establish a fundamental right or its breach .  Ineither	case,  however,	 it had to decide  the	petition  onmerits.Chiranjit Lal Chowdhuri v. The Union of India, [1950] S.C.R.869,Kathi  Raning Rawat v. The State of Saurashtra,  [1952]S.C.R. 435     and Ramkrishna Dalmia v. Shri' justice S.  R.Tendolkar, [1959] S.C.R. 279, referred to.In appropriate cases opportunity might also be given to	 theparties	 to establish their cases by further affidavits,  orby  issuing a commission or even by setting the	 applicationdown for trial on evidences.Per  Wanchoo, J.-If the petitions were based solely  on	 theinfringement  of Art. 14, there could be no doubt that	theywould  not be maintainable.  Even though they were based  onthe319infringement  of Art. 19(1)(f) also,  their  maintainabilitywould  still  be  in doubt in the  absence  of	any  furtherprovision in the impugned Act for its direct enforcement  bythe State.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL  JURISDICTION: Petitions No. 433 of 1955 and  40-41of 1956.Petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forenforcement of Fundamental Rights.M.C.   Setalvad,  Attorney-General  for	 -India,  M.   K.Nambiyar, J. B. Dadachanji, S. N. Andley and Rameshwar Nath,for the petitioners.T.   M. Sen, for the State of Madras.K.   V.	 Suryanarayana Iyer, Advocate-General for the  Stateof  Kerala  and T. M. Sen, for the State of  Kerala.M.  R. Krishna Pillai, for respondents Nos. 2-9.  PurshottamTricumdas and M. R. Krishna Pillai, for respondent No. 12 inPetitions Nos. 40 and 41 of 1956.K.R.  Krishnaswami,  for respondents Nos.  11,	13-17  inPetn.  No. 443 of 55.Purshottam Tricumdas and K. R. Krishnaswami, for  respondentNo. 12 in Petn.	 No. 443 of 55.A.V.  Viswanatha  Sastri and M. R.  Krishna  Pillai,  forIntervener No. 1.Sardar Bahadur, for Intervener No. 2.M. R. Krishna Pillai, for Intervener No. 3.1959.  March 4. The Judgment of Das, C. J., Bhagwati,  Sinhaand Subba Rao, JJ., was delivered by Das, C. J. Wanchoo, J.,delivered a separate Judgment.DAS, C. J.-The circumstances leading up to the	presentationof the above noted three petitions under Art. 32, which havebeen heard together, may be shortly stated :In  pre-British times the Kavalappara Moopil Nair,  who	 wasthe  senior-most  male -member of Kavalappara  Swaroopam  ofdynastic family, was the ruler of the Kavalappara  territorysituate in Walluvanad320Taluk  in  the	district  of  South  Malabar.	He  was	  anindependent prince or chieftain having sovereign rights overhis territory and as such was the holder of the	 Kavalapparasthanam,  that	is to say, " the status	 and  the  attendantproperty  of the senior Raja ". Apart from  the	 Kavalapparasthanam, which was a Rajasthanam the Kalvappara Moopil	Nairheld five other sthanams in the same district granted to hisancestors by the superior overlord, the Raja of Palghat,  asreward	for  military services rendered to the	latter.	  Healso  held  two	 other sthanams in Cochin,  granted  to	 hisancestors  by  another	overlord, the Raja  of	Cochin,	 formilitary   services.   Each  of	 these	sthanams  has	alsoproperties attached to it and such properties belong to	 theKavalappara Moopil Nair who is the sthanee thereof.  On	 thedeath in 1925 of his immediate predecessor the petitioner inPetition  No.  443  of	1955  became  the  Moopil  Nair	  ofKavalappara  and  as  such the	holder	of  the	 Kavalapparasthanam to which is attached the Kavalappara estate and alsothe  holder  of the various other sthanams  in	Malabar	 andCochin held by the Kavalappara Moopil Nair.  The  petitionerin Petition No. 443 of 1955 will hereafter be referred to as"  the	sthanee	 petitioner  ". According  to  him  all	 theproperties  attached to all the sthanams belong to  him	 andrespondents  2	to  17, who are the junior  members  of	 theKavalappara family or tarwad, have no interest in them.The  Madras Marumakkattayam Act (Mad.  XXII of 1932)  passedby the Madras Legislature came into force on August 1, 1933.This Act applied to tarwads and not to sthanams and s. 42 ofthe  Act gave to the members of a Malabar tarwad a right  toenforce	 partition  of tarward properties or  to  have	themregistered  as impartible.  In March 1934 respondents 10  to17, then constituting the entire Kavalappara tarwad, appliedunder s. 42 of the said Act for registration of their familyas  an impartible tarwad.  In spite of the objection  raisedby  the	 sthanee petitioner, the  SubCollector	ordered	 theregistration  of the Kavalappara tarwad as impartible.	 Thesthanee	 petitioner applied to the High Court of Madras	 forthe issue of a writ to321quash  the  order of the Sub Collector, but the	 High  Courtdeclined to do so on the ground that the sthanee  petitionerhad no real grievance as the said order did not specify	 anyparticular  property  as impartible  property.	 While	thisdecision  served the purpose of the sthanee  petitioner,  itcompletely  frustrated the object of respondents 10  to	 17.On April 10, 1934, therefore, respondents 10 to 17 filed  O.S.  No. 46 of 1934 in the court of the Subordinate Judge  ofOttapalam  for a declaration that all the  properties  underthe  management	 of  the  defendant  (meaning  the   sthaneepetitioner)  were  tarwad properties belonging	equally	 andjointly to the plaintiffs (meaning the respondents 10 to  17herein) and the defendant, i.e., the sthanee petitioner, andthat  the  latter  was in management  thereof  only  as	 theKarnavan and manager of the tarwad.  The sthanee  petitionercontested  the	suit asserting that he was  the	 KavalapparaMoopil	Nair and as such a sthanee and that  the  propertiesbelonged  to  him exclusively and that the  plaintiffs	(therespondents  10	 to 17 herein) had no interest in  the	suitproperties.   By  his judgment pronounced  on  February	 26,1938, the Subordinate Judge dismissed the O. S. 46 of  1934.The  plaintiff (the respondents 10 to 17 herein) went up  inappeal	to the Madras High Court, which, on April  9,  1943,allowed	 the  appeal  and  reversed  the  decision  of	 theSubordinate Judge and decreed the suit.	 That judgment	willbe  found  reported  in Kuttan Unni v.	Kochunni  (1).	 Thedefendant,  i.e., the sthanee petitioner herein carried	 thematter	to the Privy Council and the Privy Council  by	its.judgment, pronounced on July 29, 1947, reversed the judgmentof  the High Court and restored the decree of  dismissal  ofthe  suit passed by the Subordinate Judge.  In the  meantimein 1946 respondents 10 to 17 had filed a suit (O.  S. 77  of1121)  in  the	Cochin Court  claiming	similar	 reliefs  inrespect	 of the Cochin sthanam.	 After the judgment  of	 thePrivy  Council was announced, respondents 10 to 17  withdrewthe Cochin suit.  The matter rested here for the time being.(1)  (1943) I.LR. [1944] Mad. 515.41322On  February  16,  1953,  respondents  10  to  17  took	 theinitiative  again  and presented a Memorial  to	 the  MadrasGovernment asking that legislation be undertaken to  reversethe  Privy Council decision.  The Government apparently	 didnot  think  fit	 to  take  any	action	on  that   Memorial.Thereafter a suit was filed in the court of the	 SubordinateJudge  at Ottapalam by respondents 2 to 9 who were then	 theminor members of the tarwad claiming Rs. 4,23,000 as arrearsof maintenance and Rs. 44,000 as yearly maintenance for	 thefuture.	  The suit was filed in forma pauperism	 There	weresome  interlocutory proceedings in this suit for  compellingthe defendant (i.e., the sthanee petitioner) to deposit	 theamount	of the maintenance into court which eventually	cameup  to	this Court by special leave but to which it  is	 notnecessary  to refer in detail.	During the pendency of	thatpaper  suit,  the  sthanee petitioner, on  August  3,  1955,executed  two deeds of gift, one in respect of	the  Palghatproperties  in favour of his wife and two daughters who	 arethe petitioners in.  Petition No. 40 of 1956 and the  secondin respect of the Cochin properties in favour of his son whois the petitioner in Petition No. 41 of 1956.Meanwhile  respondents	2  to 17 renewed  their	 efforts  tosecure	legislation  for the reversal of the decree  of	 thePrivy  Council and eventually on August 8, 1955, procured  aprivate	 member	 of  the  Madras  Legislative  Assembly	  tointroduce  a Bill (L.  A. Bill No. 12 of 1955)	intituled  "The Madras Marumakkathayam (Removal of Doubts) Bill, 1955  "with  only two clauses on the allegation, set forth  in	 thestatement of objects and reasons appended to the Bill,	thatcertain decisions of courts of law had departed from the ageold  customary law of Marumakkathayees with regard to  stha-nams  and sthanam properties and that those  decisions	werethe  result of a misapprehension of the customary law  whichgoverned the Marumakkathayees from ancient times and  tendedto  disrupt  the social and economic  structure	 of  severalancient	  Marumakkathayam  families  in	 Malabar   in	thatKarnavans of tarwad were encouraged to claim to be  sthaneesand  thus  deny	 the legitimate rights	of  the	 members  oftarwads323with the result that litigation had arisen or were  pending.It was said to be necessary, in the interests of harmony andwell  being  of persons following the  Marumakkathayam	law,that  the  correct  position  of  customary  law   governingsthanams and sthanam properties should be clearly  declared.This  Bill  came before the Madras Legislative	Assembly  onAugust	20, 1955, and was passed on the same day.  The	Billhaving	been placed before the Madras  Legislative  Council,the  latter passed the same on August 24, 1955.	 The  assentof  the	 President to the Bill was obtained on	October	 15,1955,  and  the Act intituled  "the  Madras  Murumakkathayam(Removal of Doubts) Act, 1955 " being Madras Act 32 of	1955and  hereinafter  referred  to	as  the	 impugned  Act,	 waspublished  in  the  official gazette on	 October  19,  1955.Section	 I of the impugned Act is concerned with  the  shorttitle and its application.  Section 2, which is material forour purposes, is expressed in the following terms:"  2.  Certain kinds of sthanam properties  declared  to  betarwad	properties:-Notwithstanding any decision  of  Court,any sthanam in respect of which-(a)  there is or had been at  any time an  intermingling  ofthe  properties	 of the sthanam and the	 properties  of	 thetarwad, or(b)the	 members  of  the  tarwad  have	  been	 receivingmaintenance  from  the properties purporting to	 be  sthanamproperties  as	of  right, or in pursuance of  a  custom  orotherwise, or(c)there  had at any time been a vacancy caused	 by  therebeing  no male member of the tarwad eligible to	 succeed  tothe sthanam,shall  be  deemed to be and shall be deemed always  to	havebeen   a   Marumakkathayam   tarwad   and   the	  propertiesappertaining  to  such a sthanam shall be deemed to  be	 andshall be deemed always to have been properties belonging  tothe   tarwad   to  which  the  provisions  of	the   MadrasMarumakkathayam Act, 1932, (Madras Act XXII of 1933),  shallapply.Explanation-All words and expressions used in this Act shallbear the same meaning as in the Madras324Marumakkathayam Act, 1932 (Madras Act XXII of 1933).  "Almost immediately after the publication of the impugned Actin  the gazette, respondents 2 to 17 published notices in  "Mathrubumi ", a Malayalam daily paper with large circulationin  Malabar,  Cochin and Travancore, to the effect  that  byreason	of  the	 passing of the	 impugned  Act,	 Kavalapparaestate	had  become their tarwad properties and	 that  rentscould be paid to the sthanee petitioner only as the Karnavanof  the properties and not otherwise.  The  notices  furtherstated that the donees under the two deeds of gift  executedby   the  sthanee  petitioner  were  not  entitled  to	 theproperties conveyed to them and should not be paid any	rentat  all.  After the passing of the impugned Act one  of	 therespondents  filed another suit, also in forma pauperis,  inthe same court.	 It is also alleged by the petitioners	thatrespondents  2	to 17 are contemplating the  filing  of	 yetanother	  suit	for  partition,	 taking	 advantage  of	 theprovisions of the impugned Act.It  was	 in  these circumstances  detailed  above  that	 theKavalappara  Moopil Nair, i.e., the sthanee  petitioner,  onDecember  12,  1955, filed the present petition No.  443  of1955  under Art. 32 of the Constitution.  This was  followedby Petition No. 40 of 1956 by his wife and two daughters andPetition No. 41 of 1956 by his son.  Both the last mentionedpetitions  were	 filed	on  February  3,  1956.	  The  firstrespondent in all the three petitions is the State of Madrasand  respondents  2  to 17 are the members  of	the  sthaneepetitioner's tarwad.  In his petition the sthanee petitionerprays  " that a writ of Mandamus or any other proper  ,writ,order  or directions be ordered to issue for the purpose  ofenforcing his fundamental rights, directing the	 respondentsto  forbear  from  enforcing any of the	 provisions  of	 theMadras	 Act  32  of  1955  against  the   petitioner,	 hisKavalappara  sthanam and Kavalappara estate,  declaring	 thesaid  Act to be unconstitutional and invalid ". The  prayersin the other two petitions are mutatis mutandis the same.Shri Purshottam Tricumdas appearing for some of325the respondents has taken a preliminary objection as to	 themaintainability	 of the petitions.  The argument in  supportof his objection has been developed and elaborated by him inseveral	 ways.	 In the first place, he	 contends  that	 thepetitions, in so far as they pray for the issue of a writ ofMandamus, are not maintainable because the petitioners	havean  adequate remedy in that they can agitate  the  questionsnow sought to be raised on these petitions and get relief inthe  pauper suit filed by one of the respondents  after	 thepassing	 of the impugned Act.  This argument  overlooks	 thefact  that  the present petitions are under Art. 32  of	 theConstitution which is itself a guaranteed right.  In  RashidAhmed  v. Municipal Board, Kairana (1) this  Court  repelledthe  submission of the Advocate-General of Uttar Pradesh  tothe  effect  that, as the petitioner had an  adequate  legalremedy	by  way of appeal, this Court should not  grant	 anywrit  in the nature of the prerogative writ of	Mandamus  orCertiorari and observed:"  There  can  be  no question that  the  existence  of	 ,anadequate   legal  remedy  is  a	 thing	to  be	taken	intoconsideration  in  the	matter of granting  writs,  but	 thepowers given to this Court tinder Art. 32 are much wider andare not confined to issuing prerogative writs only."Further,  even	if  the existence of  other  adequate  legalremedy may be taken into consideration by the High Court  indeciding  whether  it should issue any	of  the	 prerogativewrits on an application under Art. 226 of the  Constitution,as  to	which  we say nothing now this Court  cannot,  on  asimilar	 ground, decline to entertain a petition under	Art.32,  for  the  right  to  move	this  Court  by	 appropriateproceedings  for the enforcement of the rights conferred  byPart  III of the Constitution is itself a guaranteed  right.It has accordingly been held by this Court in Romesh Thapparv. The State of Madras (2) that under the Constitution	thisCourt	is  constituted	 the  protector	 and  guarantor	  offundamental  rights  and it cannot,  consistently  with	 theresponsibility so laid upon it,(1) [1950] S.C.R. 566.(2) [1950] S.C.R. 594.326refuse	to entertain applications seeking the protection  ofthis  Court  against infringement of such  rights,  althoughsuch  applications  are	 made to this  Court  in  the  firstinstance  without resort to a High Court  having  concurrentjurisdiction  in  the  matter.	The  mere  existence  of  anadequate  alternative legal remedy cannot per se be  a	goodand sufficient ground for throwing out a petition under Art.32,  if the existence of a fundamental right and  a  breach,actual or threatened, of such right is alleged and is  primafacie established on the petition.The  second line of argument advanced by learned counsel  isthat  the  violation  of the right to  property	 by  privateindividuals  is not within the purview of Art.	19(1)(f)  orArt.  31(1)  and that a person whose right  to	property  isinfringed by a private individual must, therefore, seek	 hisremedy	under  the  ordinary  law  and	not  by	 way  of  anapplication  under Art. 32.  In support of this part of	 hisargument,  learned  counsel relies on the decision  of	thisCourt in P. D. Shamdasani v. Central Bank of India Ltd. (1).In  that  case the respondent Bank had, in exercise  of	 itsright  of  lien	 under its  articles  of  association,	soldcertain	 shares	 belonging to the petitioner  and  then	 thelatter	started	 a series of proceedings in the	 High  Courtchallenging  the right of the Bank to do so.  After  a	longlapse  of  time,  after	 all  those  proceedings  had	beendismissed, the petitioner instituted a suit against the Bankchallenging  the validity of the sale of his shares  by	 theBank.	The plaint was rejected by the court under O. 7,  r.11(d)	of  the	 Code  of  Civil  Procedure  as	 barred	  bylimitation.   Thereupon the petitioner filed an	 applicationunder  Art.  32	 of the Constitution praying  that  all	 theadverse	 orders made in the previous proceedings be  quashedand the High Court be directed to have " the above suit	 setdown  to  be  heard as	undefended  and	 pronounce  judgmentagainst	 the respondent or to make such orders as it  thinksfit in relation to the said suit ". It will be noticed	thatthe petitioner had no grievance against the State as definedin Art. 12 of the Constitution and his petition(1)[1952] S.C.R. 391.327was not founded on the allegation that his fundamental rightunder Art. 19(1)(f) or Art. 31(1) had been infringed by	 anyaction	of  the State as so defined or by  anybody  derivingauthority from the State.  The present position is, however,entirely different, for the gravamen of the complaint of thesthanee	 petitioner  and the other  petitioners,  who  claimtitle from him, is directly against the impugned Act  passedby the Madras Legislature, which is within the expression"State  " as defined in Art. 12.	 Therefore in the cases	 nowbefore us the petitions are primarily against the action  ofthe  State  and	 respondents 2 to  17  have  been  impleadedbecause	 they  are interested in  denying  the	petitioner'srights created in their favour by the impugned Act.   Indeedby means of suits and public notices, those respondents havein fact been asserting the rights conferred upon them by theimpugned  Act.	 In these  circumstances,  the	petitioners'grievance is certainly against the action of the State whichby virtue of the definition of that term given in Art. 12 ofthe  Constitution,  includes the Madras Legislature  and  itcannot	certainly  be said that the subject matters  of	 thepresent	 petitions  comprise disputes between  two  sets  ofprivate	 individuals  unconnected  with	 any  State  action.Clearly disputes are between the petitioners on the one handand the State and persons claiming under the State or  undera law made by the State on the other hand.  The common	caseof  the petitioners and the respondents, therefore, is	thatthe impugned Act does affect the right of the petitioners tohold  and enjoy the properties as sthanam  properties;	but,while  the  petitioners contend that the law  is  void,	 therespondents  maintain  the opposite view.   In	our  opinionthese  petitions  under	 Art. 32 are  not  governed  by	 ourdecision in P. D. Shamdasani's case (1) and we see no reasonwhy,  in  the  circumstances,  the  petitioners	 should	  bedebarred  from availing themselves of  their  constitutionalright to invoke the jurisdiction of this Court for obtainingredress against infringement of their fundamental rights.(1)[1952] S.C.R. 391,328The  third argument in support of the preliminary  point  isthat an application under Art. 32 cannot be maintained untilthe  State has taken or threatens to take any  action  underthe  impugned  law which action, if permitted to  be  taken,will  infringe the petitioners' fundamental rights.   It  istrue  that  the enactments abolishing  estates	contemplatedsome  action to be taken by the State, after the  enactmentscame  into force, by way of issuing notifications, so as  tovest  the  estates in the State and thereby to	deprive	 theproprietors  of	 their fundamental right to hold  and  enjoytheir estates.	Therefore, under those enactments some overtact had to be done by the State before the proprietors	wereactually  deprived  of their right, title  and	interest  intheir estates.	In cases arising under those enactments	 theproprietors  could  invoke the jurisdiction  of	 this  Courtunder  Art.  32 when the State did or threatened to  do	 theovert	act.   But  quite  conceivably	an   enactment	 mayimmediately  on its coming into force take away	 or  abridgethe,  fundamental rights of a person by its very  terms	 andwithout any further overt act being done.  The impugned	 Actis  said  to be an instance, of such enactment.	 In  such  acase  the infringement of the fundamental right is  completeeo  instanti  the passing of the enactment  and,  therefore,there  can  be no reason why -the  person  so  prejudiciallyaffected  by the law should not be entitled  immediately  toavail  himself of the constitutional remedy under  Art.	 32.To  say	 that  a person, whose fundamental  right  has	beeninfringed  by  the mere operation of an	 enactment,  is	 notentitled to invoke the jurisdiction of this Court under Art.32,  for the enforcement of his right, will be to  deny	 himthe  benefit  of a salutary constitutional remedy  which  isitself	his fundamental right.	The decisions of this  Courtdo not compel us to do so.  In the State of Bombay v. UnitedMotors	(India) Limited (1) the petitioners applied  to	 theHigh  Court  on	 November 3, 1952 under	 Art.  226,  of	 theConstitution  challenging the validity of the  Bombay  SalesTax  Act, 1952, which came into force on November  1,  1952.No notice had(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 1069.			    329been  issued, no assessment proceeding had been started	 andno  demand had been made on the petitioners for the  paymentof any tax under the impugned Act.  It should be noted	thatin  that petition one of the grounds of attack was that	 theAct  required the dealers, on pain of penalty, to apply	 forregistration  in some cases and to obtain a license in	someother  cases  as a condition for the carrying  on  of  theirbusiness, which requirement, without anything more, was saidto have infringed the fundamental rights of the	 petitionersunder  Art.  19(1)(g) of the Constitution and  no  objectioncould,	therefore,  be taken to the maintainability  of	 theapplication.  Reference may also be made to the decision  ofthis Court in Himmatlal Harilal Mehta v. The State of MadhyaPradesh	 (1).  In that case, after cotton was  declared,  onApril  11,  1949, as liable to sales tax under	the  CentralProvinces  and	Berar  Sales Tax Act,  1947,  the  appellantcommenced paying the tax in respect of the purchases made byhim and continued to pay it till December 31, 1950.   Havingbeen  advised that the transactions (lone by him  in  MadhyaPradesh	 were  not  " sales " within  that  State  and	thatconsequently he could not be made liable to pay sales tax inthat State, the appellant declined to pay the tax in respectof  the purchases made during the quarter ending  March	 31,1951.  Apprehending that he might be subjected to payment oftax without the authority of law, the-appellant presented anapplication to the High Court of Judicature at Nagpur  underArt.  226  praying  for an appropriate	writ  or  writs	 forsecuring  to  him protection from the impugned Act  and	 itsenforcement by the State.  The High Court declined to  issuea  writ	 and  dismissed the petition on the  ground  that  amandamus  could be issued only to compel an authority to  door  to	abstain from doing some act and that it	 was  seldomanticipatory and was certainly never issued where the actionof  the	 authority  was	 dependent on  some  action  of	 theappellant  and that in that case the appellant had not	evenmade his return and no demand for the tax could be made fromhim.(1) [1954] S.C.R. 1122.42330Being  aggrieved  by that decision of the  High	 Court,	 thepetitioner in that case came up to this Court on appeal	 andthis  Court held that a threat by the State to	realise	 thetax from the assessee without the authority of law by  usingthe coercive machinery of the impugned Act was a  sufficientinfringement  of   his fundamental right which	gave  him  aright to seek relief under Art. 226 of the Constitution.  Itwill  be noticed that the Act impugned in that case  had  byits  terms  made  it  incumbent on  all	 dealers  to  submitreturns,  etc.,	 and thereby imposed restrictions  on  theirfundamental  right to carry on their businesses	 under	Art.19(1)  (g).   The present case, however, stands	 on  a	muchstronger tooting.  The sthanee petitioner is the KavalapparaMoopil	Nair  and  as such holds certain  sthanams  and	 thepetitioners in Petitions Nos. 40 and 41 of 1956 derive theirtitles from him.  According to the petitioners, the  sthaneepetitioner  was	 absolutely entitled to all  the  propertiesattached to all the sthanams and respondents 2 to 17 had  noright,	title or interest in any of the sthanam	 properties.Immediately  after  the	 passing of the	 impugned  Act,	 theMadras	Marumakkathayam Act, 1932, became applicable to	 thepetitioners' sthanams and the petitioners' properties becamesubject	 to the obligations and liabilities imposed  by	 thelast mentioned Act.  On the passing of the impugned Act, thesthanee	 petitioner  immediately became relegated  from	 thestatus of a sthanee to the status of a Karnavan and  managerand the sthanam properties have become the tarwad propertiesand  respondents 2 to 17 have automatically become  entitledto  a share in those properties along with the	petitioners.The right, title or interest claimed by petitioners in or totheir sthanam properties is, by the operation of the statuteitself	 and   without	 anything   further   being    done,automatically  taken away or abridged and the  impugned	 Acthas the effect of automatically vesting in respondents 2  to17 an interest in those properties as members of the tarwad.Indeed	respondents 2 to 17 are asserting their	 rights	 andhave  issued  public notices on the basis thereof  and	havealso instituted a suit on the strength of the rights331created	 in  them  by the impugned Act.	  Nothing  fur;	 theremains to be done to infringe the petitioners right to	 theproperties  as	sthanam	 properties.  It is  true  that	 thesthanee	 petitioner or the other petitioners deriving  titlefrom him are still in possession of the sthanam	 properties,but  in the eye of law they no longer possess the  right  ofthe  sthanee  and  they cannot, as the	sthanee	 or  personsderiving  title	 from the sthanee, lawfully claim  any	rentfrom the tenants.  In view of the language employed in s.  2quoted above and its effect the petitioners can legitimatelycomplain that their fundamental right to hold and dispose ofthe sthanam properties has been injured by the action of theLegislature which is " State " as defined in Art. 12 of	 theConstitution.	In the premises, the petitioners  are  primafacie  entitled to seek their fundamental remedy under	Art.32.The  next  argument in support of the objection	 as  to	 themaintainability	 of these petitions is thus formulated:	 Theimpugned Act is merely a piece of a declaratory	 legislationand  does not contemplate or require any action to be  takenby the State or any other person and, therefore, none of thewell-known  prerogative	 writs	can afford  an	adequate  orappropriate  remedy to a person whose fundamental right	 hasbeen  infringed by the mere passing of the Act.	 If  such  aperson challenges the validity of such an enactment, he mustfile a regular suit in a court of competent jurisdiction forgetting	 a declaration that the law is void and,  therefore,cannot and does not effect his right.  In such a suit he canalso seek consequential reliefs by way of injunction or	 thelike,  but he cannot avail himself of the remedy under	Art.32.   In  short, the argument is that the  proceeding  underArt.  32  cannot  be  converted	 into  or  equated  with   adeclaratory  suit  under s. 42 of the Specific	Relief	Act.Reference  is made, in support of the aforesaid	 contention,to  the following passage in the judgment of Mukherjea,	 J.,as  he then was, in the case of Chiranjit Lal  Chowdhuri  v.The Union of India(1) :-" As regards the other point, it would appear from(1)[1950] S.C.R. 869, 900.332the language of article 32 of the Constitution that the soleobject	of  the article is the	enforcement  of	 fundamentalrights	guaranteed by the Constitution.	 A proceeding  underthis  article  cannot really have any affinity	to  what  isknown a,; a declaratory suit".But further down on the same page his Lordship said:-Any  way, article 32 of the Constitution gives us very	widediscretion  in the matter of framing our writs to  suit	 theexigencies  of particular cases, and the application of	 thepetitioner  cannot be thrown out simply on the	ground	thatthe proper writ or direction has not been prayed for ".It  should be noted that though in that case the  petitionerprayed,	  inter	 alia,	for  a	declaration  that  the	 Actcomplained of was void under Art. 13 of the Constitution  itwas  not thrown out on that ground.  The above statement  ofthe  law  made	by  Mukhekjea, J., is  in  accord  with	 thedecision  of this Court in the earlier case of Rashid  Ahmedv.  Municipal  Board,  Kairana (1).  The  passage  from	 ourjudgment in that case, which has already been quoted  above,also  acknowledges  that the powers given to this  Court  byArt.  32 are much wider and are not confined to the  issuingof prerogative writs only.  The matter does not rest  there.In  T.	C. Basappa v. T. Nagappa (2)  Mukherjea,  J.,  againexpressed the same view:-(Page 256)."  The	language  used	in  articles  32  and  226  of	 ourConstitution  is  very wide and the powers  of	the  SupremeCourt  as well as of all the High Courts in India extend  toissuing	 of orders, writs or directions including  writs  inthe  nature  of	 habeas	 corpus,  mandamus,  quo   warranto,prohibition  and certiorari as may be  considered  necessaryfor enforcement of the fundamental rights and in the case ofthe High Courts, for other purposes as well.  In view of theexpress provisions of our Constitution we need not now	lookback  to the early history or the procedural  technicalitiesof  these  writs in English law, nor feel oppressed  by	 anydifference  or	change of opinion  expressed  in  particularcases by English Judges ".(1) [1950] S.C.R. 566.	     (2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 250, 256.333In Ebrahim Vazir Mayat v. The State of Bombay (1) the  ordermade by the majority of this Court was framed as follows:-" As a result of the foregoing discussion we declare section7  to be void under Article 31(1) in so far as it  conflicts'which	the  fundamental right of a citizen of	India  underarticle 19(1) (e) of the Constitution and set it aside.	 Theorder  will,  however, operate only upon proof of  the	factthat  the appellants are citizens of India.  The case  will,therefore, go back to the High Court for a finding upon thisquestion.   It will be open to the High Court  to  determinethis  question itself or refer it to the court	of  DistrictJudge  for a finding ". That was a case of an appeal  comingfrom  a High Court and there was no difficulty in  remandingthe case for a finding, on an issue, but the fact to note isthat this Court did make a declaration that s. 7 of the	 Actwas void.  We are not unmindful of the fact that in the caseof  Maharaj Umeg Singh v. The State of Bombay(2) which	cameup  before this Court on an application under Art.  32,	 thepetitioner had been relegated to filing a regular suit in  aproper	court having jurisdiction in the matter.  But  on  aconsideration  of  the authorities it appears  to  be  well-established that this Court's powers under Art. 32 are	wideenough	to make even a declaratory order where that  is	 theproper	relief	to  be given to the  aggrieved	party.	 Thepresent	 case appears to us precisely to be  an	 appropriatecase,  if  the impugned Act has taken away or  abridged	 thepetitioners' right under Art. 19(1) (f) by its own terms andwithout anything more being done and such infraction  cannotbe  justified.	 If,  therefore,  the  contentions  of	 thepetitioners  be well-founded, as to which we say nothing  atpresent, a declaration as to the invalidity of the  impugnedAct  together  with  the  consequential	 relief	 by  way  ofinjunction  restraining	 the respondents and  in  particularrespondents  2	to 17 from asserting any  rights  under	 theenactment  so  declared void will be  the  only	 appropriatereliefs	 which	the  petitioners will be  entitled  to	get.Under  Art. 32 we must, in appropriate cases,  exercise	 ourdiscretion and(1) [1954] S.C.R. 933, 941-(2) [1955] 2 S.C R. 164.334frame our writ or order to suit the exigencies of this	casebrought about by the alleged nature of the enactment we	 areconsidering.  In a suit for a declaration of their titles onthe  impugned Act being declared void, respondents 2  to  17will  certainly be necessary parties, as persons  interestedto deny the petitioners' title.	 We see no reason why, in anapplication  under Art. 32 where declaration and  injunctionare  proper  reliefs,  respondents 2 to 17  cannot  be	madeparties.   In our opinion, therefore, there is no  substancein the argument advanced by learned counsel on this point.The  last point urged in support of the plea as to the	non-maintainability	 of  these applications is that	 this  Courtcannot,	 on  an application under Art. 32,  embark  upon  anenquiry	 into  disputed question of fact.- The	argument  isdeveloped in this, way.	 In the present case the petitionersallege, inter alia, that the impugned Act has deprived	themof  their fundamental right to the equal protection  of	 thelaw and equality before the law guaranteed by Art. 14 of theConstitution.	Their  complaint  is that  they,  have	beendiscriminated  against	in  that  they	and  their   sthanamproperties  have been singled out for hostile  treatment  bythe  Act.   The petitioners contend that there is  no  othersthanam	 which comes -within the purview of  this  enactmentand  that  they and the sthanams held by them are  the	onlytarget	against which this enactment is directed.  The	res-pondents, on the other hand, contend that the language of s.2 is wide and general and the Act applies to all sthanams towhich one or more of the conditions specified in s. 2 may beapplicable  and	 that this Court cannot, on  an	 applicationunder  Art.  32, look at any extraneous	 evidence  but	mustdetermine the issue on the terms of the enactment alone	 andthat  in  any  event  this Court  cannot  go  into  disputedquestions  of fact as to whether there are or are not  othersthanees  or sthanams similarly situate as  the	 petitionersare.  In support of his contention Shri Purshottam Tricumdasrefers	us to some decisions where some of the	High  Courtshave  declined to entertain applications under Art.  226  ofthe Constitution involving disputed335questions  of fact and relegated the petitioners to  regularsuits  in  courts  of competent jurisdiction.	We  are	 notcalled upon, on this occasion, to enter into a discussion orexpress any opinion as to the jurisdiction and power of	 theHigh Courts to entertain and to deal with applications underArt.  226  of the Constitution where disputed  questions  offact  have  to	be  decided and we  prefer  to	confine	 ourobservations to the immediate problem now before us, namely,the limits of the jurisdiction and power of this Court	*henacting	under Art. 32 of the Constitution.  Shri  PurshottamTricumdas concedes that the petitioners have the fundamentalright to approach this Court for relief against infringementof  their  fundamental	right.	What he	 says  is  that	 thepetitioners  have exercised that fundamental right and	thatthis  fundamental right goes no further. in other  words  hemaintains  that nobody has the fundamental right  that	thisCourt  must entertain his petition or decide the  same	whendisputed  questions  of fact arise in the case.	 We  do	 notthink  that  that  is a correct approach  to  the  question.Clause	(2) of Art. 32 confers power on this Court to  issuedirections  or orders or writs of various kinds referred  totherein.  This Court may say that any particular writ  askedfor  is	 or  is	 not appropriate or  it	 may  say  that	 thepetitioner has not established any fundamental right or	 anybreach	thereof	 and accordingly dismiss the  petition.	  Inboth  cases this Court decides the petition on merits.	 Butwe   do	 not  countenance  the	proposition  that,   on	  anapplication  under  Art.  32,  this  Court  may	 decline  toentertain the same on the simple ground that it involves thedetermination of disputed questions of fact or on any  otherground.	 If we were to accede to the aforesaid contention oflearned	 counsel,  we would be failing in our  duty  as	 thecustodian  and protector of the fundamental rights.  We	 arenot  unmindful of the fact that the view that this Court  isbound  to entertain a petition under Art. 32 and  to  decidethe  same  on merits may encourage litigants  to  file	manypetitions  under Art. 32 instead of proceeding by way  of  asuit.  But that consideration cannot, by itself, be a cogentreason336for  denying the fundamental right of a person	to  approachthis  Court  for the enforcement of  his  fundamental  rightwhich  may,  prima  facie, appear to  have  been  infringed.'Further,  questions  of fact can and very often  are  dealtwith  on affidavits.  In Chiranjitlal Chowdhuri's  case	 (1)this  Court  did not reject the petition in  limine  on	 theground	that  it  required  the	 determination	of  disputedquestions of fact as to there being other companies  equallyguilty	of  mismangement.   It went into the  facts  on	 theaffidavits and held, inter alia, that the petitioner had notdischarged the onus that lay on him to establish his  chargeof  denial of equal protection of the laws.   That  decisionwas  clearly one on merits and is entirely different from  arefusal	 to entertain the petition at all.  In Kathi  RaningRawat  v.  The State of Saurashtra (2) the  application	 wasadjourned  in order to give the respondent in that  case  anopportunity to adduce evidence before this Court in the formof an affidavit.  An affidavit was  filed by the  respondentsetting	 out  facts and figures relating  to  an  increasingnumber	of  incidents  of looting,  robbery,  dacoity,	nosecutting and murder by marauding gangs of dacoits in  certainareas of the State in support of the claim of the respondentState that " the security of the State and public peace werejeopardised  and that it became impossible to deal with	 theoffences that were committed in different places in separatecourts	 of  law  expeditiously	 ".  This  Court  found	  nodifficulty  in	dealing with that  application	on  evidenceadduced	 by affidavit and in upholding the validity  of	 theAct  then  under  challenge.  That was also  a	decision  onmerits	although  there	 were  disputed	 questions  of	factregarding  the circumstances in which the impugned Act	cameto be passed.  There were disputed questions of fact also inthe  case  of  Ramkrishna  Dalmia  v.  Shri  Justice  S.  R.Tendolkar (3).	The respondent State relied on the affidavitof  the Principal Secretary to the Finance Ministry  settingout  in detail the circumstances which lead to the issue  ofthe impugned notification and the matters(1) [1950] S.C.R. 869, 900.	 (2) [1952] S.C.R. 435.(3) [1959] S.C.R. 279.337recited	 therein and the several reports referred to in	 thesaid  affidavit.  A similar objection was taken	 by  learnedcounsel	 for  the petitioners in that case as has  now	beentaken.	It was urged that reference could not be made to anyextraneous  evidence  and that the basis  of  classificationmust appear on the face of the notification itself and	thatthis  Court should not go into disputed questions  of  fact.This  Court  overruled that objection and  held	 that  therecould  be no objection to the matters brought to the  noticeof  the	 Court by the affidavit of the	Principal  Secretarybeing taken into consideration in order to ascertain whetherthere  was any valid basis for treating the petitioners	 andtheir  companies  as  a class by  themselves.	As  we	havealready said, it is possible very often to decide  questionsof  fact on affidavits.	 If the petition and the  affidavitsin  support thereof are not convincing and the court is	 notsatisfied   that   the	petitioner   has   established	 hisfundamental  right  or	any breach thereof,  the  Court	 maydismiss	 the petition on the ground that the petitioner	 hasnot discharged the onus that lay on him.  The court may,  insome  appropriate cases, be inclined to give an	 opportunityto the parties to establish their respective cases by filingfurther	 affidavits  or by issuing a commission or  even  bysetting the application down for trial -on evidence, as	 hasoften been done on the original sides of the High Courts  ofBombay	and Calcutta, or by adopting some other	 appropriateprocedure.  Such occasions will be rare indeed and such rarecases  should not- in our opinion, be regarded as  a  cogentreason for refusing to entertain the petition under Art.  32on the ground that it involves disputed questions of fact.For  reasons given above we are of opinion that none of	 thepoints	urged  by  learned counsel for	the  respondents  insupport	 of  the objection to the maintainability  of  theseapplications  can  be sustained.  These	 applications  will,therefore,  have  to  be  heard	 on  merits  and  we   orderaccordingly.  The respondents represented by Shri PurshottamTricumdas  must pay one set of costs of the hearing Of	thispreliminary objection before us to the petitioners,43338WANCHOO,  J.-I have read the judgment just delivered  by  myLord the Chief Justice, with which my other brethren concur,with  great care.  With the utmost respect for	my  brethrenfor  whom  I have the highest regard, I must state  that  ifthese  applications were based only on the  infringement  ofArt.  14 of the Constitution, I would have no hesitation  indismissing them as not maintainable.  I need riot  elaboratemy reasons in this case and shall content myself by  observ-ing that where the law, as in this case, is general in termsand  there is no question of its direct enforcement  by	 theState in the form, for example, of grant of licences,  issueof  notices,  submission  of returns, and  so  on,  actuallyresulting  in wholesale abuse of its provisions, this  Courtwill not permit an applicant under Art. 32 to lead  evidenceto  show that the law was meant to hit him alone.   However,the  applicants	 also  rely  on	 the  infringement  of	 thefundamental  right  guaranteed under Art. 19(1)(f).   As  tothat,  I- have doubts whether an application under  Art.  32challenging a general law of this kind, which affects one orother.	of the fundamental rights guaranteed under Art.	 19,can  be maintained, in the absence of any further  provisiontherein	 for  direct enforcement of its	 provisions  by	 theState  in the form already indicated above, by a person	 whomerely apprehends that he might in certain eventualities  beaffected by it.	 However, on the present occasion, I do	 notpropose	 to  press  my doubts to the point  of	dissent	 andtherefore concur with the proposed order.	      Preliminary objection overruled.			    339