PETITIONER:PINGLE INDUSTRIES LTD., SECUNDERABAD	Vs.RESPONDENT:COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, HYDERABAD.DATE OF JUDGMENT:26/04/1960BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.DAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1960 AIR  997		  1960 SCR  (3) 669 CITATOR INFO : R	    1963 SC 683	 (7,21,26,30) R	    1965 SC 360	 (9) D	    1966 SC 798	 (10,12) RF	    1968 SC 678	 (2,4) R	    1969 SC 893	 (9) R	    1971 SC1454	 (9) RF	    1973 SC 637	 (7)ACT:Income	 Tax-Business  Expenditure-Right to  extract  stonesfrom quarries-Character of expenditure-Test, whether revenueor  capital  in nature-Hyderabad Income Tax  Act  (HyderabadVIII Of 1357 F),S.  12(2)(xv)-Indian  Income  Tax  Act,	  S.10(2)(XV).HEADNOTE:Under a quolnama the assessee company was granted  exclusiverights in the nature of a monopoly to extract Shahabad	FlagStones	without	 limit	to  quantity  or  measurement	fromquarries  situated in six villages for a period of 12  yearson  annual  payment  of Rs. 28,000 but	not  to	 manufacturecement.	  The  stones had to be extracted  methodically	 andskilfully  before  they	 could be  dressed  and	 sold.	 Theassessee  company  paid	 an initial sum	 of  Rs.  96,000  assecurity and the balance of Rs. 20,000 was payable each yearin monthly instalments of Rs. 1,666-10-8 each.	The paymentswere  to be made even if no stones were extracted  or  couldnot be extracted.  The question was whether the amounts paidwere allowable as business expenditure under s. 12(2)(xv) ofthe Hyderabad Income Tax Act:Held  (Per  Kapur  and Hidayatullah, jj.   S.  K.  Das,	 J.,dissenting),  that under the quolnama the assessee  acquiredby  his long term lease a right to win stones and the  leaseconveyed to him a part of land.	 The stones in situ were nothis  stock-intrade in a business sense but a  capital  assetfrom which after extraction he converted the stones into hisstock-in-trade.	  The  payment though periodic in  fact	 wasneither	 rent  nor  royalty  but  a  lump  sum	payment	  ininstalments  for  acquiring  a	capital	 asset	of  enduringbenefit	 to  his trade.	 The right acquired is to  a  sourcefrom  which  the  raw material was  to	be  extracted.	 Theexpenditure  was  outgoings on capital account and  was	 notallowable as deductions under S. 12(2)(XV) Of the  HyderabadIncome Tax Act.Per  S. K. Das, J.-That on its true construction the  trans-action was the sale of raw materials coupled with a  licenceto the assessee to come on the land and remove the materialssold, the purchase price being paid partly in a lump sum andpartly	in  monthly  instalments, that the  object  was	 theprocuring  of the stones for making flag stones and not	 theacquisition  of	 an enduring asset or  advantage,  that	 thepayments  made were the price of raw materials and that	 theassessee  was therefore entitled to claim them	as  businessexpenditure  under s. 12(2)(xv) of the Hyderabad Income	 TaxAct.Assam  Bengal  Cement Works Ltd. v. Commissioner  of  IncomeTax, West Bengal, [1955] 1 S.C.R. 972, distinguished.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 190 of 1955.682Appeal	from the judgment and order dated July 31, 1953,  ofthe  Hyderabad	High Court in Reference Case  No.  302/5  of1951-52.N. A. Palkhivala and B. Ganapathy Iyer, for the appellants'H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India,H.   J.	 Umrigar  and D. Gupta, for  the  respondent.1960.  April  26.  The Judgment of Kapur  and  Hidayatullah,JJ.,  was  delivered  by  Hidayatullah,	 J.S.  K.  Das,	 J.,delivered a separate Judgment.S.K. DAS, J.-This is an appeal by the assessee with leave ofthe  High Court of Hyderabad granted under s. 66A(2) of	 theIndian Income-tax Act, 1922.The  short  facts  are these.  The appellant  is  a  privatelimited	 company  carrying on the business, inter  alia,  ofsale  of  Shahabad  stones (flag stones)  which	 had  to  beextracted  from	 quarries, dressed and then sold.   For	 thepurpose of its business, the appellant took on contract	 theright  to  excavate  stones from  certain  quarries  in	 sixvillages in Tandur taluk for a period of twelve years  undera Quolnama dated 9th March, 1343F, from the then jagirdar ofthe  taluk,  named Nawab Mehdi Jung Bahadur.   The  contractprovided that the jagirdar should be paid annually a sum  ofRs.  28,000 as consideration for extracting the stones	tillthe  end  of the contract period, as per  a  plan  prepared,within	the six villages specified therein.   The  appellanthad  no right or interest in the land; nor did he  have	 anyother interest in the quarries apart from excavating  stonestherefrom.   The  contract specifically	 provided  that	 theappellant,   called   the  contractor,	had  no	  right	  tomanufacture cement from the stones; he had only the right toexcavate  stones  from	the quarries till  the	end  of	 thecontract  period.   I may here quote some  of  the  relevantprovisions   of	  the  Quolnama	 as  to	  how	the   annualconsideration of Rs. 28,000 was to be paid.  It said:"  1. The period of contract for excavating stones from	 thequarries  of the villages noted above is for 12	 years	from1st Ardibehisht 1346 Fasli to the end of the Farwardi,	1358Fasli  and the contractor will be given possession from	 1stArdibehisht 1346 Faisli.6832.   The annual contract amount would be Rs. 28,000.3.   For the surety of the contract the sum of Rs. 96,000 0.S.  has been received and deposited in the treasury  of	 theJagir  towards	the  advance  and  earnest  money  and	 thesecurity, a receipt for the same has been issued separately.4.The  remaining  annual balance sum of Rs.  20,000  may  bedeposited in the Jagir Treasury by instalment every month ofRs.  1,667-10-8;  if  there be any  default  in	 paying	 theinstalment regularly, interest at the rate of one rupee	 percent. per mensem will be charged to the contractor till	 thefull payment.There  was another lease or contract taken  from  Governmentfor  a	period	of five years for which	 the  appellant	 wasrequired to pay Rs. 9,000 per year in monthly instalments ofRs.  750.  That was also in respect of stone quarries.	 Theterms  of  the said contract with Government have  not	beenprinted	 in  the paper book, presumably	 because  they	weresimilar	 in  nature  to those of the  Quolnama	referred  toabove.	,The Income-tax Appellate Tribunal found, and  thereis  no	dispute	 as to this, that under	 the  aforesaid	 twocontracts  the	appellant had merely the  right	 to  extractShahabad stones.  The Tribunal said:"  Flag stones of required thickness are found in layers  inthose mines or quarries.  Before one gets these flag  stonesof  the	 required thickness, one has also  to  extract	flagstones of greater thickness.  The assessee sells these	flagstones	both  of the usual thickness and  thickness  greaterthan usual one, after working on them, if necessary."  Therewas  no finding as to how deep the quarrying bad to be	doneto extract the stones of required thickness.According to the appellant's books of account, it paid	eachyear  of  account Rs. 37,000 as lease or contract  money  toextract the stones under the two contracts and it claimed anallowance  in  respect	thereof under s.  12(2)(xv)  of	 theHyderabad  Income-tax Act, corresponding to s. 10(2)(xv)  ofthe  Indian Income-tax Act, 1922.  The Tribunal stated	thatthe  Income-tax	 Officer was under some	 misapprehension  orerror while examining the appellant's books of account,	 andheld for the assessment year 1357F that the expenditure684of  Rs.	 27,054	 as  lease or  contract	 money	was  capitalexpenditure,  in  respect  of which the	 appellant  was	 notentitled to claim any allowance under the relevant provisionof  the Hyderabad Income-tax Act.  For the  assessment	year1358F  he  similarly  held that the sum of  Rs.	 28,158	 wascapital expenditure and not revenue expenditure.  There weretwo appeals to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner who alsoheld  that the expenditure was capital	expenditure.   Then,there  was an appeal to the Income-tax	Appellate  Tribunal,Bombay.	 The Accountant member of the Tribunal held that thepayments in question stood on the same footing as  royaltiesand  dead  rent which are allowable as working	expenses  incases of mines and quarries.  The President Of the  Tribunalexpressed his finding thus:" In the present case, the assessee purchased his  stock-in-trade.	Instead of paying so much for so many cubit feet, hepays  a	 lump sum every year.  Parties might as	 well  agreethat the so called lessee shall pay a sum of money bearing aproportion to the sales or quantum of material extracted  ora  lump sum for the purpose of convenience.   Because  thesequarry	leases are called leases, the assessee does not	 getan  asset of an enduring benefit.  In fact, I find that	 theleases	are renewed from time to time.	The lease money	 is,therefore,  in	my  opinion,  not  capital  expenditure	 butrevenue	 expenditure and should be allowed in computing	 theassessee's income from the quarries."In  the	 result,  the  Tribunal allowed	 the  claim  of	 theappellant that the payment of the two sums of Rs. 27,054 andRs.  28,158  for  the  assessment  years  1357F	 and   1358Frespectively  was in its true nature a	revenue	 expenditurerather than capital expenditure.  On being satisfied that  aquestion of law arose out of its order, the Tribunal  statedthe following question for the decision of the High Court:"  Whether the lease money paid by the assessee	 company  toNawab  Mehdi  Jung  Bahadur and	 to  Government	 is  capitalexpenditure or revenue expenditure."The High Court answered the question against the  appellant.Hence the present appeal.685My  learned  brethren have come to the conclusion  that	 theexpenditure    in   question   was   capital	expenditure.Reluctantly and much to my regret I have come to a differentconclusion,  and I proceed now to state the reasons  for  myconclusion as briefly as I can.It  is	not  disputed that if the  expenditure	was  capitalexpenditure,  then  the appellant was not  entitled  to	 thebenefit	 of s. 12(2)(xv) of the Hyderabad Income-tax Act  inthe  relevant years.  It is equally undisputed that  if	 theexpenditure  was  revenue expenditure,	then  the  appellantcould claim an allowance in respect thereof.  Therefore,  itis unnecessary to read the provisions of s. 12(2)(xv) of theHyderabad Income-tax Act or the corresponding provisions  ofs. 10(2)(xv) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922. 1 plunge atonce  in  medias  res  to a  consideration  of	the  crucial/question in this case: were the two payments in question ofthe nature of capital expenditure or revenue expenditure ?This distinction between capital and revenue, either on	 thereceipt	 or expenditure side, is almost a perennial  problemin  Income-tax	law.  In general the  distinction  is  well-recognised and is based on certain principles which are easyof  application in some cases; but from time to	 time  casesarise  which make the distinction difficult of	application.A  large  number of decisions were cited before us,  but  noinfallible   criterion	of  universal  application   emergestherefrom  and each case must turn on its own facts,  thoughthe  decisions are useful as illustrations and as  affordingindication   of	 the  kind  of	considerations	 which	 mayrelevantly  be borne in mind in approaching the problem.   Ishall refer in this judgment to such decisions only as	havea bearing on the real controversy between the parties.In  view  of  the  submissions	made  before  us,  the	realcontroversy  in this case appears to me to be this : in	 thecontext	 of the terms of the contract between  the  parties,was  the  expenditure incurred intended to create  or  bringinto  existence	 an  asset  or	advantage  of  an   enduringcharacter or was it intended to get only the  stock-in-tradeor  the	 raw  materials for the business ?  If	it  was	 theformer, then it was capital89686expenditure; if latter, then revenue expenditure.  There  isno  doubt  that	 receipts and  payments	 in  connexion	withacquiring  or disposing of leaseholds of mines	or  mineralsare  usually on capital account (Kamakshya Narain  Singh  v.Commissioner  of Income-tax (1)).  The reason why the  pricepaid  for  the	purchase  of  mining  rights  is  a  capitalexpenditure  as explained by Channel J., in Alianza  Co.  v.Bell (2) ,in the, following words:"In the ordinary case, the cost of the material worked up ina  manufactory is not a capital expendture; it is a  currentexpenditure and does not become a capital expenditure merelybecause the material is provided by something like a forwardcontract, under which a person for the payment of a lump sumdown  secures  a  supply of the raw material  for  a  periodextending over several years.............. If it is merely amanufacturing  business,  then	the  procuring	of  the	 rawmaterial  would not be a capital expenditure.  But if it  islike the working of a particular mine or bed of brick  earthand converting the stuff worked into a marketable commodity,then the money paid for the prime cost of the stuff so dealtwith  is as much capital as the money sunk in the  machineryor buildings."Learned	 counsel for the Department has strongly  relied  onthese observations and has contended that the ,appellant hadno manufacturing business in the present case and the  pricehe  paid  for  working	the quarries  was  as  much  capitalexpenditure  as money sunk in machinery or  buildings.	 Butthis  contention ignores the absence of one  very  importantcircumstance  in this case.  The acquisition of a mine or  amining right is an enduring asset, because it is not a	merepurchase of minerals but is ail acquisition of a source fromwhich  flows the right to extract minerals; in other  words,the  acquisition  provides the means of	 obtaining  the	 rawmaterial rather than the raw material itself ; therefore, itrelates	 to  fixed  capital, and in  a	business  sense	 theacquiring  of a leasehold of a mine is not the	purchase  ofraw materials only.  It is something more than that.  In thecase before us except the stones, nothing else was acquired.Clauses 5 and 7 of the Quolnama said:(1) [1943] 11 I.T.R. 513.(2) [1904] 2 H. B. 666.687"  5. The contractor shall have no right to excavate  stonesfrom  other  places of the Jagir Ilaqa except  the  villagesspecified  within  the prescribed period of  contract.	 TheJagir  authorities  will  not  allow  any  other  person  toexcavate  these stones within the jurisdiction	of  villagesother than the villages specified above."    .....................................................    ......................................................7.The  contractor  shall have to excavate  stones  from	 thequarries  as  per the plan.  In case he requires  a  furtherarea  of land in the village for excavation of stones,	thiswill be done on his application four months in advance.	 Thecontractor will have no right to manufacture cement from thestones in the villages noted above."In  view  of these clauses and the recital in  the  Quolnamathat it was a quarry contract for excavating stones only, itis in my view not reasonable to hold that what the appellantacquired in the present case was the means of obtaining	 rawmaterial rather than the raw material itself.It is, I think, an accepted position now that the expression"  capital  expenditure " must normally be  construed  in  abusiness  sense	 and  emphasis should  be  placed  upon	 thebusiness aspect of the transaction rather than on the purelylegal and technical aspect.  It is not, therefore, necessaryto determine whether the Quolnama in the present case was inlaw  a	lease,	or a license, or a license  coupled  with  agrant.	 What  we  have to consider is	the  nature  of	 thetransaction from the business point of view, and it seems tome  that  having regard to the terms of	 the  Quolnama,	 thetransaction in its true nature and quality was a sale of rawmaterials coupled with a license to the appellant to come onthe  land and remove the materials sold; the purchase  pricewas  to be paid partly in a lump sum and partly	 in  monthlyinstalments.  If that is the true nature of the transaction,there  is  no difficulty in answering the  question  raised.The  only answer then is that the payments in question	wererevenue expenditure.688I  now	refer  to four decisions which in  my  opinion	comeclosest to the controversy before us. (1) In re: Benarsi DasJagannath  (1);	 (2)  Mohanlal Hargovind  of  Jubbulpore  v.Commissioner  of Income-tax, C. P. and Berar, Nagpur  (2)  ;(3) Abdul Kayoom v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras (3  )and  (4) Stow Bardolph Gravel Co.  Ltd. v. Poole  (Inspectorof Taxes) (4).	The first is a decision of the Full Bench ofthe  Lahore High Court, the second, a decision of the  PrivyCouncil,  the  third, a decision of the Full  Bench  of	 theMadras	High Court and the last a decision of the  Court  ofAppeal	in England.  The facts in Benarsi Das Jagannath	 (1)were these.  The assessee, who was a manufacturer of bricks,obtained certain lands on leases for the purpose of  diggingout earth for the manufacture of bricks.  Under the deeds hehad  the right to dig earth up to three to three and a	halffeet.	He had no interest left in the lands as soon as	 theearth  was dug out and removed.	 The periods of	 the  leasesvaried	from  six  months to three  years.   The  Income-taxauthorities  and  the  Appellate  Tribunal  held  that	 theconsideration  paid  by the assessee to the  owners  of	 thelands  was  a capital expenditure and was therefore  not  anallowable deduction under s. 10(2)(xv) of the Indian Income-tax Act.  It was held by the Full Bench that the main objectof   the   agreement  was  the	procuring   of	 earth	 formanufacturing bricks and not the acquisition of an advantageof a permanent nature or of an enduring character, that	 thepayments  made were the price of raw material and  that	 theassessee  was therefore entitled to claim them	as  businessexpenditure under s. 10(2)(xv).	 It was worthy of note	thatthis  decision	was approved by this Court in  Assam  BengalCement	Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax, West  Bengal(5).   Bhagwati, J., delivering the judgment of	 this  Courtsaid:"  This synthesis attempted by the Full Bench of the  LahoreHigh Court truly enunciates the principles which emerge fromthe authorities.  In cases where the expenditure is made forthe initial outlay or for(1)   [1946] I.L.R. 27 Lah. 307.(3)  I.L.R. [1953] Mad. 1133.(2)   [1949] L.R. 76 I.A. 235.(4)  [1955] 27 I.T.R. 146.(5)   [1955] 1 S.C.R. 972.689extension of a. business or a substantial replacement of theequipment, there is no doubt that it is capital expenditure.A  capital  asset  of the business  is	either	acquired  orextended or substantially replaced and that outlay  whateverbe  its source whether it is drawn from the capital  or	 theincome of the concern is certainly in the nature of  capitalexpenditure.	 The   question,   however,    arises	 forconsideration  where  expenditure  is  incurred	 while	 thebusiness  is  going  on	 and  is  not  incurred	 either	 forextension of the business or for the substantial replacementof its equipment.  Such expenditure can be looked at  eitherfrom the point of view of what is acquired or from the pointof view of what is the source from which the expenditure  isincurred.   If	the  expenditure is made  for  acquiring  orbringing  into	existence  an asset  or	 advantage  for	 theenduring benefit of the business it is properly attributableto capital and is of the nature of capital expenditure.	  Ifon the other hand it is made not for the purpose of bringinginto existence of any asset or advantage but for running thebusiness or working it with a view to produce the profits itis  a revenue expenditure.  If any such asset  or  advantagefor the enduring benefit of the business is thus acquired orbrought	 into existence it would be immaterial	whether	 thesource	of the payment was the capital or the income of	 theconcern or whether the payment was made once and for all  orwas   made  periodically.   The	 aim  and  object   of	 theexpenditure would determine the character of the expenditurewhether	  it   is  a  capital  expenditure  or	 a   revenueexpenditure.  The source or the manner of the payment  wouldthen be of no consequence.  It is only in those cases  wherethis  test  is of no avail that one may go to  the  test  offixed  or  circulating	capital	 and  consider	whether	 theexpenditure  incurred was part of the fixed capital  of	 thebusiness or part of its circulating capital.  If it was partof  the	 fixed capital of the business it would	 be  of	 thenature	of  capital expenditure and if it was  part  of	 itscirculating  capital  it would be of the nature	 of  revenueexpenditure.   These tests are thus mutually  exclusive	 andhave  to be applied to the facts of each particular case  inthe manner above indicated.  It has been rightly690observed  that in the great diversity of human	affairs	 andthe   complicated  nature  of  business	 operations  it	  isdifficult  to  lay  down a test which  would  apply  to	 allsituations.   One has therefore got to apply these  criteriaone after the other from the business point of view and cometo  the	 conclusion whether on a fair  appreciation  of	 thewhole  situation  the expenditure incurred in  a  particularcase  is  of the nature of capital  expenditure	 or  revenueexpenditure  in	 which	latter	event only  it	would  be  adeductible allowance under section 10(2)(xv) of the  Income-tax Act.  The question has all along been considered to be aquestion  of  fact  to	be  determined	by  the	  Income-taxauthorities  on an application of the broad principles	laiddown  above  and  the Courts of	 law  would  not  ordinarilyinterfere  with	 such  findings of fact if  they  have	beenarrived at on a proper application of those principles.	 "I  do  not read these observations as merely  indicating  anapproval of certain general principles, but not	 necessarilyan  approval of the actual decision in Benarsidas  Jagannath(1).   In cases of this nature it is the application of	 theprinciples   to	  the  facts  of  a  case   which   presentsdifficulties, and I do not think that this Court would	havemade  the observations it made, unless it was approving	 theactual decision in Benarsidas Jagannath (1) in so far as  itapplied the general principles to the facts of that case.  Isee no significant distinction between that case and the onebefore	us.   In  both	cases, what  was  acquired  was	 rawmaterial-earth	in one case and stone in the  other-and	 thepayments made were the price of the raw material.  The	onlydistinction  pointed out is the difference in the period  ofthe   contracts;   that	 is  a	relevant  factor   but	 notdeterminative  of the problem before us.  Even in  our	casethe  contract  in favour of Government was  for	 five  yearsonly.	Surely, it cannot be argued that three years in	 onecase  and  five	 years	in  the	 other	will  make  all	 thedifference.   I think that the real test is, in the  contextof the controversy before us, what was acquired-au  enduringasset  or  advantage,  or  raw	materials  for	running	 thebusiness  ? Judged by that test the present case  stands  onthe same footing as the case of Benarsidas Jagannath (1)(1)  (1946) I.L.R. 27 Lah. 307,691In  Mohanlal  Hargovind	 (1)  the  facts  were	these.	 Theassessees  carried  on business at several places  as  manu-factures  and  vendors of country made cigarettes  known  asbidis.	These cigarettes were composed of tobacco rolled  inleaves of a tree known as tendu leaves, which were  obtainedby  the	 assessees by entering into a number of	 short	termcontracts  with the Government and other owners of  forests.Under the contracts, in consideration of certain sum payableby  instalments,  the assessees were granted  the  exclusiveright  to  pick	 and carry away the tendu  leaves  from	 theforest	area  described.   The	assessees  were	 allowed  tocoppice small tendu plants a few months in advance to obtaingood  leaves  and  to pollard tendu trees a  few  months  inadvance to obtain better and bigger leaves.  The picking  ofthe  leaves however had to start at once or  practically  atonce  and  to  proceed	continuously.	The  Privy   Councildistinguished  Alianza	Co. v. Bell (2) and  overruling	 thedecision in Income-tax Appellate Tribunal v. Haji  SabumiyanHaji Sirajuddin (3) held that the expenditure was to  secureraw material and was allowable as being on revenue  account.Lord Greene delivering the judgment of the Board said:"  It  appears to their Lordships that there has  been	somemisapprehension	 as to the true nature of  these  agreementsand they wish to state at once what in their opinion is	 andwhat is not the effect of them.	 They are merely examples ofmany similar contracts entered into by the appellants whollyand  exclusively  for the purpose of  their  business,	thatpurpose	 being	to supply themselves with one  of  the,	 rawmaterials of that business.  The contracts grant no interestin  land and no interest in the trees or plants	 themselves.They are simply and solely contracts giving to the  granteesthe  right to pick and carry away leaves, which, of  course,implies	  the  right  to  appropriate  them  as	 their	 ownproperty."" In the present case the trees were not acquired: nor	werethe  leaves acquired until the appellants had  reduced	theminto their own possession and ownership by picking them.  Ifthe tendu leaves had been stored(1) (1949) L.R. 76 I.A. 235.	 (2) [1904] 2 K.B. 666.(3) [1946] 14 I.T.R. 447.692in  a  merchant's godown and the appellants had	 bought	 theright  to  go and fetch them and so reduce them	 into  theirpossession  and	 ownership  it	could  scarcely	 have	beensuggested  that the purchase price was capital	expenditure.Their  Lordships  see no ground in principle or	 reason	 fordifferentiating the present case from that supposed.  "I   also   see	no  ground  in	principle  or	reason	 fordifferentiating	 the  present  case from  that	of  MohanlalHargovind (1).In  K.	T.  M.	T. M. Abdul  Kayoom  and  Hussain  Sahib  v.Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras (2 ) a Full Bench of	 theMadras High Court dissenting from its earlier decisions heldthat  rent paid by a dealer in chank under an  agreement  inthe form of a ,lease" with the Government under which he hadan  exclusive right " to fish for, take and carry  away	 allthe  chank  shells  in the sea off the coast  line  "  of  acertain district, was allowable as revenue expenditure.	  Itwas  further held there that it made no	 difference  whetherwhat was acquired was raw material for a manufacturing busi-ness or stock-in-trade which was intended to be sold withoutbeing subjected to any manufacturing process.  This decisionis the subject of Civil Appeal No. 64 of 1956 which has beenheard along with this appeal.  I do not see how the  presentcase  can  be  distinguished from the  Madras  case  withoutholding that the Madras decision was incorrect.Last, I come to Stow Bardolph Gravel Co. Ltd.(3) That was  acase  in  which it was held that sums paid by  a  dealer  ingravel	as consideration for the right to excavate and	takeaway  deposits	of gravel represented  capital	expenditure.The  decision rested on the fact that the subject matter  ofthe  agreement consisted of a deposit of gravel living	somefeet beneath the surface of the land and requiring to be wonfrom  the  land	 by  a process of  excavation.	 I  find  itdifficult  to reconcile this decision with the	decision  inBenarsidas  Jagannath  (4) and Abdul Kayoom (2) in  both  ofwhich  also excavation or exploration was necessary  to	 winthe raw material.  If, as I hold, the decision in BenarsidasJagannath (4) was approved by this Court then we(1) (1949) L.R. 76 I.A. 235.  (2) I.L.R. [1953] Mad. 1133.(3) [1955] 27 I.T.R. 146.  (4) (1946) I.L.R. 27 Lah. 307.693must  accept that decision as correct in preference  to	 thedecision of the Court of Appeal in England.  I may point outhere  what  Evershed,  M.  R., said in	the  course  of	 hisjudgment in that case:"  The Commissioners for the General Purpose of	 the  IncomeTax  were  of opinion that these claims to  make  deductionswere not admissible, but Harman, J., was of opinion that thedeductions  were  admissible.	I  have	 myself	 reached   adifferent conclusion from that reached by Harman, J., and  Ihave  reached  it, I confess, with some	 slight	 feeling  ofregret	and  misgiving on two grounds: first,  I  think	 theresult	bears a little hardly on the taxpayers	for  reasonswhich will, I think, emerge without any necessity for empha-sis as I recite the facts; second, I am not for my own	partsatisfied  that	 if  close investigation were  made  of	 themethod whereby the taxpayers and others in the same line  ofbusiness  carry on their businesses, it might  not  emerge-Isay no more than that-that the Commissioners would find as afact, notwithstanding the apparent legal consequences of theagreement to which I have referred, there was here in  truthsuch  a	 taking	 possession  of the  deposit  of  gravel  inquestion that it could sensibly for tax purposes and rightlyand  fairly  be said that once the consideration  money	 hadbeen  paid under the agreement the deposit was in truth	 thestock-in-trade	of  the	 taxpayer.   However,  I  have	feltcompelled to say that there is no finding of fact to supportsuch  a	 conclusion,  nor  indeed is  there  before  us	 anyevidence  sufficient to warrant it.  It is in that  respect,"apprehend, that I find myself at variance with Harman, J."    ....................................................."If  the  facts	 were as the judge  intimated,	the  GeneralCommissioners might find, and might justifiably find, that acase such as this is not really distinguishable as a  matterof  law and common sense from a sale of loose objects  lyingon  the surface of the ground, such as windfalls from  appletrees, or even from cases like those I have mentioned, whichare concerned with crops or leaves growing on trees.  But mydifficulty  is	that I can find no  justification  for	thatconclusion in the material before us."90694In   view   of	these  observations  I	 have	considerablehesitation, and I say this with great respect, in  acceptingthe  decision  as a decision on a general question  of	law.The decision proceeded on the findings of the  Commissionersand  on	 the  basis that there were  no	 materials  for	 theconclusion  reached  by	 Harman, J. If	we  proceed  on	 thefindings  of  the Tribunal in the present  case,  there	 areenough	materials to support the finding that the  appellantacquired  nothing but raw materials by the  transactions  inquestion.I  find nothing in the decision in Stow Bardolph Gravel	 Co.Ltd.  (1)  which  need lead me to the  conclusion  that	 thedecisions  in Benarsidas Jagannath (2) and Abdul Kayoom	 (3)were wrong and require reconsideration.	 If I may again	 sayso  with  great	 respect, the learned Master  of  the  Rollsdistinguished	the  Privy  Council  decision  in   MohanlalHargovind  (4)	by  saying that	 decision  rested  upon	 theparticular circumstances of the case and upon the fact	thatthe Board was able to say that from the moment the  contractwas  entered  into and before the leaves had  actually	beenpicked,	 the tendu leaves were part of the raw	material  ofthe  appellant.	 He added that he could not say the same  ofsand  and  gravel, which were part of the earth	 itself	 andwhich  could only become part of the stock-in-trade  of	 thegravel	merchant's business when it had, in the true  sense,been  won, been excavated and been taken into their  posses-sion.	I  do  not,  however, think  that  the	decision  inMohanlal  Hargovind (4) proceeded on the basis suggested  bythe learned Master of the Rolls.  In clear and express termsLord  Greene said: "nor were the leaves acquired  until	 theappellant  reduced them into their possession and  ownershipby picking them." This shows that the decision of the  PrivyCouncil did not proceed on the ground alleged, namely,	thateven before the leaves had actually, been picked, they	werepart of the raw material of the appellant of that case.	 Thedecision  proceeded  on the footing that the  leaves  becamepart  of  the  raw  material when  they	 were  reduced	intopossession and ownership by picking(1)  [1955] 27 I.T.R. 146.(3)  [1953] 24 I.T.R. 116.(2)  (1946) I.L.R. 27 Lah. 307.(4)  (1949) L.R. 76 I.A. 235.695	     3	S.C.R.	  SUPREME COURT REPORTSthem.	If that is the correct ratio of	 Mohanlal  Hargovind(1), then where is the distinction between that case and thecase  of  the gravel merchant in Stow, Bardolph	 Gravel	 Co.Ltd. (2) and the stone merchant in the present case ? In  myopinion there is none.In  the result and for the reasons given above, I hold	thatthe  expenditure in question was on revenue account and	 theappellant  was	entitled to the allowance he  claimed.	 Theanswer	given  by the High Court was wrong  and	 the  appealshould be allowed with costs.HIDAYATULLAH,	J.-This	 is  an	 assessee's  appeal   on   acertificate of the High Court granted under s. 66A(2) of theIndian Income-tax Act.Pingle Industries Ltd. (hereinafter called the assessee)  isa  private  limited Company which carries  on,	among  otherbusinesses, the business of extracting stones from quarries,which, after dressing, it sells as flag stones.	 In the year1343  Fasli,  the assessee obtained from  Nawab	 Mehdi	JungBahadur	 of  Hyderabad	the right  to  extract	stones	fromcertain	 quarries belonging to the Nawab.  A quolnama  (con.tract)	was executed, and it has been produced in the  case.Under  this quolnama, the assessee was granted the right  toextract stones from quarries situated in six named  villagesfor  a	period	of 12 years (1346 Fasli to  1358  Fasli)  onannual	payment	 of Rs. 28,000.	 To  safeguard	payment	 Rs.96,000	representing  a part of the annual payments  at	 Rs.8,000  per  year were paid in advance as security,  and	 thebalance	 of  Rs.  20,000 was payable each  year	 in  monthlyinstalments of Rs. 1,666-10-8 each.  In default of  punctualpayment of these instalments, interest at Re.1 per cent	 wasto  be charged.	 Some other conditions of the  quolnama	 mayalso be briefly mentioned here.	 The assessee undertook	 notto  manufacture cement and also to be ,responsible  for	 thepayment	 of  the  money	 in spite  of  "  any  celestial  orterrestrial  or unexpected calamity or unforeseen  event  ",while the Nawab on his part undertook not to allow any otherperson	to excavate stones in the area of the six  villages.It  was	 agreed that in case of default of  instalment,	 thecontract(1) (1949) L.R. 76 I.A. 235.  (2) [1955] 27 I T.R. 146.696would  be  re-auctioned	 after One  month's  notice  to	 thecontractor,  who would be responsible for any shortfall	 butwould not have the benefit of any extra amount.The  assessee was assessed in the Fasli years 1357 and	1358for  the  account  years 1356 and 1357	Fasli.	 It  claimeddeduction respectively of Rs. 27,054 and Rs. 28,159 paid  tothe Nawab in those years, as expenditure under s.  12(2)(xv)of  the Hyderabad Income-tax Act, which is the same  as	 thecorresponding  pro. vision under the Indian Income-tax	Act.The  claim  for	 deduction was	refused	 by  the  Income-taxOfficer, who held that the amount in each year represented acapital	 expenditure though the whole sum was being paid  ininstalments.   The assessee appealed against the two  ordersof  assessment to the Appellate Officer of  Income-tax,	 andquestioned  this  decision.   The  appeals  involved   othermatters	 also,	with which we are not  now  concerned.	 Theappeals	 were dismissed.  The assessee appealed	 further  tothe  Income-tax Appellate Tribunal, Bombay, and	 raised	 thesame  contention.   The	 Appellate  Tribunal  accepted	 theappeals.  Different reasons were given by the President	 andthe Accountant Member.	According to the latter, the paymentof  these sums was similar to the payment of  royalties	 anddead rent which is allowable as working expense in the	caseof  mines and quarries.	 The President relied upon  MohantalHargovind  v. Commissioner of Income-tax (1), and held	thatthe payments represented the purchase of the  stock-in-tradeof the assessee, and that the leases did not create an assetof an enduring character.The  Commissioner  of Income-tax, Hyderabad  Division,	thenasked  for  a  reference of the case to the  High  Court  atHyderabad, and the Appellate Tribunal referred the followingquestion  of law under s. 66(1) of the Hyderabad  Income-taxAct:"  Whether the lease-money paid by the assessee	 Company  toNawab  Mehdi  Jung  Bahadur and	 to  Government	 is  capitalexpenditure or revenue expenditure."The  reference to Government in the question arises in	thisway.  It appears that there was yet another(1)  (1949) L.R. 76 I.A. 235.697lease which was taken from Government for 5 year. and  underwhich the assessee was required to pay Rs. 9,000 per year ininstalments  of Rs. 750 per month.  It does not appear	thatthe terms of this lease were ascertained and the amount doesnot figure in the order of assessment, though apparently  itwas  assumed that what applied to the payment to  the  Nawabheld  equally good in regard to the payment  to	 Government.In  any event, the books of the assessed kept in  mercantilesystem showed both the sums each year as lease money.The High Court of Hyderabad after an examination of  severaldecisions  rendered  in India and the United  Kingdom,	heldthat the payments in each year of account were of a  capitalnature, and that no deduction could be given under s.  12(2)(xv)  of  the Hyderabad Income-tax Act.	 The  assessee	thenapplied,  and obtained the certificate as stated,  and	thisappeal has been filed.The arguments in the case involved the interpretation of thequolnama  as to the right conveyed there and the  nature  ofthe  payments  with reference to the provision	of  the	 lawunder  which the deduction was claimed.	 That section  readsas follows:" 12 (1).  The tax shall be payable by an assessee under thehead  profits and gains of business, profession or  vocationin  respect  of	 the  profits and  gains  of  any  business,profession or vocation carried or by him.(2)  Such  profits or gains shall be computed  after  makingthe following allowances, namely:-     ......................................................(XV)  Any  expenditure (not being in the nature	 of  capitalexpenditure  or personal expenses of the assessee) laid	 outor  expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of	suchbusiness, profession or vocation."While  the Appellate Tribunal looked to the  periodicity  ofthe  payments, the High Court held that the amount  payable-was  Rs.  3,36,000 divided into annual	and  redivided	intomonthly	 instalments.	The  Tribunal  also  considered	 thepayments as of the nature of rent or royalty or as price forraw materials.	The High698court,	on  the other hand, disagreed, and  held  that	herebeing  no manufacturing business, the money  expended  couldnot  be regarded as price of raw materials or even  as	rentbut as spent to acquire a capital asset of enduring  benefitto  the	 assessee.   The High  court  referred	to  numerousdecisions  in  which  the  question  whether  a	 receipt  orexpenditure  is	 on  capital or	 revenue  account  has	beenconsidered in India and the United Kingdom.  Before us also,many of them were again cited as illustrating, if not layingdown, certain general principles.  We shall refer to some ofthe  leading  cases later, but we may say at  once  that  noconclusive tests have been laid down which can apply to	 allthe cases.  The facts of one case differ so much from  thoseof  another  that the enquiry is often	somewhat  fruitless.If, however, the distinguishing features are not lost  sightof, the decided cases do afford a guide for the solution  ofthe problem in hand.The  arguments	of Mr. Palkhivala for the  assessee  may  beshortly stated.	 He contends that the quolnama is a  licenceand not a lease, because it creates no interest in land	 andno  premium  is payable for the right, but what is  paid  isperiodic  compensation corresponding to rent.	He  contendsthat   the  payments  can  only	 be  regarded  as   periodiccompensation  or periodic royalty or licence fees  and	thusrevenue	 in character.	He further argues that even if	heldto  be a lump sum payment broken up into instalments, it  isstill  allowable  as expenditure because it  represents	 theprice for the acquisition of raw materials, viewed from	 thebusiness  angle.  According to him, all cases of  mines	 andquarries fall into three classes which are:(i)  in which mines and quarries are purchased outright;(ii)in which ownership is not acquired but only an  interestin land; and(iii)  in  which there is not even an interest in  land	 butthere is an arrangement in praesent and de futuro to  ensuresupply of raw materials.He contends that this being evidently not a case within	 thefirst  category,  it  matters not which	 of  the  other	 twocategories  it belongs to, because in his  submission,	boththe remaining categories exclude a case699of capital expenditure.	 He, however, seems inclined to	 puthis case in the third category.The   learned  Additional  Solicitor-General  on  his	sideenumerates the tests which determine whether an	 expenditurebears  a  capital or revenue character.	 According  to	him,decided	 cases show that capital expenditure  is  ordinarilyonce  and  for	all and not of	a  periodic  character,	 butcontends that even a single sum chopped up into	 instalmentsis  not a payment of a periodic character.  He submits	thatcapital	 expenditure is one which brings into  existence  anenduring  advantage, which, he maintains, is the case  here,because	 the  money  was  spent on  the	 initiation  of	 thebusiness  and to obtain a permanent source of raw  materialsand not only the materials.The quolnama shows that the agreement was for 12 years.	 Theassessee paid an initial sum of Rs. 96,000 a,% security	 forthe  whole contract.  He was required to pay Rs. 28,000	 peryear.  The security which was given was being diminished  atthe rate of Rs. 8,000 per year.	 It was a guarantee against.failure	 to  pay the monthly instalments, but there  was  nocondition that the short payments were to be debited to	 it.It  was	 rather a guarantee for the overall payment  and  toreimburse the jagir for any loss occasioned by a  re-auctionof  the lease after default by the assessee.   Further,	 thepayments were to be made even if no stones were extracted orcould  not be extracted due to force majeure.  There was  nolimit  to  the quantity to be extracted.  There was  also  acondition that none but the assessee was allowed to work thequarries,  which means that the right was exclusive  and  inthe nature of a monopoly.  The payment, though divided	intoinstalments of Rs. 1,666-10-8 per month, was really one	 forthe  entire  lease and of Rs. 3,36,000.	  Nothing,  however,turns upon it.	It is pertinent to say that the assessee  inits petition for leave to appeal to this Court filed in	 theHigh Court, viewed the amount as being Rs. 3,36,000  dividedinto various parts.  This is what it said:"  Under  the  terms  of the said  lease,  the	Company	 wasrequired  to pay a sum of H. S. Rs. 28,000 per annum to	 thelessor.	 The total amount payable for700the  entire period amounted to IRS. 3,36,000 out of which  asum  of Rs. 96,000 was paid at the time of the execution  ofthe lease deed and the balance of Rs. 2,40,000 was agreed tobe paid at the rate of Rs. 20,000 per annum in twelve years.It  was	 also agreed that this sum of Rs. 20,000  per  annumshould	be paid in equal instalments of Rs. 1,66-10-8  everymonth.	On the expiry of the period of lease, it was renewedfor  a further period of five years and seven months  at  anannual rent of Rs. 35,000."These being, the terms of the lease, the question is whetherthe payments in the account years can be regarded as capitalor revenue expenditure.The question whether an expenditure is capital or revenue incharacter  is  one  of common  occurrence.   Its  frequency,however,  has  not served to elucidate the  tests  with	 anydegree	of  certainty  and precision.	It  has	 now  becomecustomary  to  start with two propositions which  appear  tohave  been  received without much argument.  The  first	 waslaid  down  in Vallambrosa Rubber Co. Ltd.  v.	Farmer	(1),where  Lord Dunedin observed that "in a rough way" it was  "not  a	bad  criterion of what	is  capital  expenditure  asagainst	 what  is  income expenditure to  say  that  capitalexpenditure  is a thing that is going to be spent  once	 andfor all and income expenditure is a thing which is going  torecur  every year ". This proposition was further  qualifiedby  Lord  Cave in Atherton v. British Insulated	 and  HelsbyCables Ltd. (2) in the following words:"  When an expenditure is made, not only once and  for	all,but  with a view to bringing into existence an asset  or  anadvantage for the enduring benefit of a trade, I think thereis very good reason (in the absence of special circumstancesleading	 to  the opposite conclusion) for treating  such  anexpenditure as properly attributable, not to revenue, but tocapital."The words " enduring benefit of a trade " have been  furtherexplained  as  meaning not " everlasting ", but in  the	 waycapital endures ", see Du Pareq, L. J., in(1) (1910) S.T.C.  529.(2) [1926] A.C. 205, 213701Henriksen  v.  Grafton Hotel Ltd. (1) and  Rowlatt,  J.,  inAnglo-Persian oil Co. v. Dale (2).Another test propounded by Viscount Haldane in John Smith  &Son  v.	 Moore	(3) is to  distinguish,	 as  economists	 do,between fixed and circulating capital.	This appears to haveappealed  to  Lord Hanworth, M. R.,, in	 Golden	 Horse	Shoe(New) Ltd. v. Thurgood (4); but in Van Den Berghs Limited v.Clark  (5), Lord Macmillan observed that he did not find  itvery  helpful.	 Often enough, where the  character  of	 theexpenditure shows that what has resulted is something  whichis  to	be  used in the way of business,  the  test  may  beuseful;	 but in cases close to the dividing line,  the	testseems useless.A third test was laid down by the Judicial Committee in TataHydro-Electric	Agencies  Ltd., Bombay	v.  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax   (6).   There,  it	was  stated  that   if	 theexpenditure  was  part of the working expenses	in  ordinarycommercial  trading  it was not capital	 but  revenue.	 TheJudicial Committee observed:"What  is  money  wholly and exclusively laid  out  for	 thepurposes  of  the  trade'  is  a  question  which  must	  bedetermined  upon  the  principles  of  ordinary	  commercialtrading.   It  is necessary, accordingly, to attend  to	 thetrue  nature  of  the expenditure, and to  ask	oneself	 thequestion, is it a part of the company's working expenses; isit  expenditure	 laid out as part of the process  of  profitearning ? "In  addition  to these three tests, the last  of  which	 wasapplied	  again	 by  the  Judicial  Committee  in   MohanlatHargovind's  case (7), there are some  supplementary  tests,which  have  frequently	 been alluded  to.   Lord  Sands  inCommissioners  of Inland Revenue v. Granite  City  SteamshipCo.  Ltd.  charaeterised as capital an outlay made  for	 theinitiation  of a business, for extension of a  business,  orfor  a substantial replacement of equipment.  In that  case,there  was  extensive  damage to a ship,  and  repairs	werenecessary  to resume trading, such expense being held to  becapital expend-(1)  (1942)  24 T.C. 453, 462, C A.(2) (1931) 16  T.C.	253,262.(3) [1920] 12 T.C. 266, 282.(4) (1933) 18 T.C. 280, 298.(5) (1935) 19 T.C 390.(6) (1937) L.R. 64 I.A. 215.(7) (1949) L.R. 76 I.A. 235.(8) (1927) 13 T.C. 1. 14.91702iture.	The questions which Lord Clyde posed in Robert Addie&   Sons   Collieries  Ltd.  v.	 Commissioners	 of   InlandRevenue(1), namely:"  Is  it  part of the Company's  working  expenses,  is  itexpenditure  laid  out	as part of  the	 process  of  profitearning ?-or, on the other hand, is it capital outlay, is itexpenditure necessary for the acquisition of property or  ofrights of a permanent character, the possession of which  isa condition of carrying on its trade at all ? "influenced the Privy Council in Tata Hydro-Electric AgenciesLtd., Bombay v. Commissioner of Income-tax (2) (at p.  209),and the latter part of the question is the test laid down byLord Sands, to which we have referred.There  is  then	 the test whether  by  the  expenditure	 thetaxpayer was ensuring supplies of raw material or purchasingthem.  This test is adverted to by Channell, J., in  AlianzaCo.  Ltd. v. Bell (3 ) and approved by the House  of  Lords.Says Channell, J.:"  In the ordinary case, the cost of the material worked  upin  a  manufactory  is not a capital expenditure,  it  is  acurrent	  expenditure	and  does  not	become	 a   capitalexpenditure  merely  because  the material  is	provided  bysomething like a forward contract, under which a person	 forthe  payment  of  a lump sum secures a	supply	of  the	 rawmaterial for a period extending over several years......  Ifit is merely a manufacturing business, then the procuring ofthe raw material would not be a capital expenditure.  But ifit is like the working of a particular mine, or bed of brickearth and converting the stuff into a marketable  commodity,then the money paid for the prime cost of the stuff so dealtwith is just as much capital as the money sunk in  machineryor buildings."The  application  of this proposition finds  an	 example  inMohanlal  Hargovind's case (4), where tendu leaves were	 thesubject of expenditure.	 The firm in that case had paid	 forpurchasing  a  right to collect tendu  leaves  from  forest,which right included the right of(1)  (1924) 8 T.C. 671, 676.(3)  (1910) 5 T.C. 60.(2)  (1937) L.R. 64 I.A. 215.(4)  (1949) L.R. 76 I.A. 235.703entry and coppicing and pollarding.  No right in the land orthe  trees  and	 plants	 was  conveyed,	 and  the   JudicialCommittee laid emphasis on the nature of the business of thefirm,  and equated the expenditure to one for acquiring	 theraw materials for the manufacturing business.The  cases  to which we have referred and many more  of	 theHigh Courts in India where the principles were applied	withthe exception of the one last cited, were all considered  bythis Court in Assam Bengal Cement Co.  Ltd. v.	Commissionerof Income-tax(6).  In that case, Bhagwati, J., referred to adecision  of the Punjab High Court in Benarsidas  Jagannath,In  re (2), where Mahajan, J. (as he then  was),  summarisedthe position and the various tests.  This Court quoted	withapproval this summary, and observe at p. 45:"  In  cases where the expenditure is made for	the  initialoutlay	or  for	 extension of a business  or  a	 substantialreplacement  of the equipment, there is no doubt that it  iscapital	 expenditure.	A capital asset of the	business  iseither	acquired or extended or substantially  replaced	 andthat outlay whatever be its source whether it is drawn	fromthe capital or the income of the concern is certainly in thenature of capital expenditure.	The question however  arisesfor  consideration where expenditure is incurred  while	 thebusiness  is  going  on	 and  is  not  incurred	 either	 forextension of the business or for the substantial replacementof its equipment.  Such expenditure can be looked at  eitherfrom the point of view of what is acquired or from the pointof view of what is the source from which the expenditure  isincurred.   If	the  expenditure is made  for  acquiring  orbringing  into	existence  an asset  or	 advantage  for	 theenduring benefit of the business it is properly attributableto capital and is of the nature of capital expenditure.	  Ifon the other hand it is made not for the purpose of bringinginto  existence any such asset or advantage but for  runningthe  business  or  working it with a  view  to	produce	 theprofits	 it is a revenue expenditure.  If any such asset  oradvantage for the enduring benefit of the business is(1) [1935] 1.S.C.R. 972.(2) (1046) I.L.R. 27 Lah. 307.704thus  acquired	or  brought  into  existence  it  would	  beimmaterial whether the source of the payment was the capitalor the income of the concern or whether the payment was madeonce  and  for all or was made periodically.   The  aim	 andobject	of the expenditure would determine the character  ofthe  expenditure  whether it is a capital expenditure  or  arevenue	 expenditure.	The  source or	the  manner  of	 thepayment	 would	then be of no consequence.  It	is  only  inthose  cases where this test is of no avail that one may  goto  the	 test of fixed or circulating capital  and  considerwhether	 the  expenditure  incurred was part  of  the  fixedcapital of the business or part of its circulating  capital.If it was part of the fixed capital of the business it wouldbe  of the nature of capital expenditure and if it was	partof  its	 circulating capital it would be of  the  nature  ofrevenue	  expenditure.	 These	tests  are   thus   mutuallyexclusive  and	have  to be applied to	the  facts  of	eachparticular case in the manner above indicated."Learned counsel in the present case rested his case upon thedecision  of the Punjab High Court in Benarsidas  case	(1),and  stated  that  after its approval  by  this	 Court,	 theexpenditure  here  could  not  but be  held  as	 on  capitalaccount.   He relied strongly also upon the decision of	 theJudicial  Committee  in	 Mohanlal  Hargovind's	case  (2  ).Reference was made to other decisions, which we will brieflynotice later.In Benarsidas case (1), the person sought to be assessed wasa  manufacturer	 of bricks.  He obtained certain  lands	 fordigging	 out  earth for his manufacture.   Under  the  deedswhich  gave him this right, he could dig up to a depth of  3feet.  to 31 feet.  He had no interest in the land,  and  assoon as the earth was removed, his right was at an end.	  Itwas held in that case that the main object of the agreementswas  the  procuring  of earth as raw materials	and  by	 theexpenditure  the-lessee had not acquired any advantage of  apermanent  or  enduring character.  It is,  however,  to  benoticed that the duration of the leases was from six  monthsto three years.	 The Full Bench referred to(1) (1946) I.L.R. 27 Lah. 307.(2) (1994) L.R. 76 I.A. 235.705some  other  leases  in which the  duration  was  longer,andobserved:" There are other agreements which are not before us and  itseems  that  the items mentioned in  the  question  referredrelate	to  those agreements as well.  We do  not  know	 thenature	of the agreements, but the question can be  answeredby  saying  that  expenses  incurred  during  the  year	  ofassessment  for purchase of earth on basis of agreements  ofthe  nature  mentioned in the case of Benarsidas or  of	 thenature	like Exhibit T. E. are admissible deductions,  whilesums  spent  for obtaining leases for a	 substantially	longperiod	varying	 from 10 to 20 years cannot be	held  to  bevalid  deductions  if they amount to an	 acquisition  of  anasset of an enduring advantage to the lessee."It  appears that the Full Bench was persuaded to  this	viewfrom  two  considerations.   The first	was  that  what	 wasacquired  was earth with no interest in land, and the  otherwas the short term of the leases.The approval given to Benarsidas case (1) by this Court doesnot  extend beyond the summary of the tests settled  in	 it,and  the tests have to be applied to the facts of each	casein  the	 manner	 indicated by this Court.   But	 the  actualdecision  was not before this Court, and cannot be  said  tohave been approved.  The agreements in the present case	 arelong-term contracts.  They give the right to extract  stonesin  six	 villages,  without  any  limit	 by  measurement  orquantity.   They give the right exclusively to quarry for  anumber of years.  This case is thus very different on facts.Further,  the  duration	 of the right which  seems  to	haveweighed	 with  the Full Bench in the Punjab High  Court	 haslittle	to do with the character of the expenditure even  ifit be a relevant factor to consider.  In Henriksen's case(2)the  right was only for 3 years, but monopoly  value  havingbeen  paid  for	 it, the result was a capital  asset  of  anenduring character.In Mohanlal Hargovind's case (3), the person assessed was  abidi manufacturer who had obtained short-term(1) (1946) I.L.R. 27 Lah. 307.	(2) (1942) 24 T.C. 453, 462,C.A.(3) (1949) L.R. 76 I.A. 235.706contracts with Government and other forest owners to  obtaintendu  leaves  from the forests.  These	 tendu	leaves	withtobacco	 are  used to roll into cigarettes.   The  contractsgave a right of entry into forests to collect the leaves andalso  to coppice the plants and to pollard the tendu  trees,but  beyond  this gave no interest in  land.   The  JudicialCommittee held that these contracts were in a business sensefor the purpose of securing supplies to the manufacturers ofone  of the raw materials of his business.  They granted  nointerest in land or the plants or trees.  The small right ofcultivation and the exclusive nature of the grant were of nosignificance.	Then,  the Judicial  Committee	observed  asfollows:"  Cases  relating  to the purchase  or	 leasing  of  mines,quarries,  deposits  of	 brick earth,  land  with  standing-timber,	 etc.  do  not appear to their Lordships  to  be  ofassistance."The  Board distinguished Alianza Co. Ltd. v. Bell which	 wassaid to be a case analogous to purchase or leasing of a mineand  Kauri  Timber Company's case (2), which was a  case  ofacquisition  of	 land  or of standing timber  which  was  aninterest  in land.  In either case, it was a capital  asset.Their Lordships finally observed:" In the present case the trees were not acquired; nor	werethe  leaves acquired until the appellants had  reduced	theminto  their  own possession and ownership by  picking  them.The two cases can, in their Lordships' opinion, in no  sensebe  regarded  as comparable.  If the tendu leaves  had	beenstored in a merchant's godown and the appellants had  boughtthe  right  to go and fetch them and so	 reduce.  them	intotheir  possession and ownership it could scarcely have	beensuggested  that the purchase price was capital	expenditure.Their  Lordships  see no ground in principle or	 reason	 fordifferentiating the present case from that supposed."It  is	to be noticed that the Privy Council  case  was	 notapplied but distinguished by the Court of Appeal in  Englandin Stow Bardolph Gravel Co. Ltd. V.  Poole (3).(1)  (1910) 5 T.C. 60.(2) [1913] A.C. 771.	   (3) [1954] 35 T.C. 459.707In that ease, the Company was doing the business of  sellingsand and gravel.  It purchased two unworked deposits, and itclaimed that the payment should be deducted from its profitsas  being expenditure for acquiring its trading	 stock.	  Itwas  held that the Company had acquired a capital asset	 andnot  a stock-in-trade.	Harman, J., before whom	 the  appealcame  from the decision of the General	Commissioners,	saidthat  the case was indistinguishable from the  Golden  HorseShoe  case  (1),  where the tailings were  regarded  as	 thestock-in-trade of the taxpayer.	 He observed :"  Now, it is said here that the opposite conclusion  shouldbe  reached, and I think in substance the reason is  becausethis gravel had never been raked off the soil upon which  itwas  lying.   There is no question, in any  true  sense,  ofextracting gravel; there is no process, as I understand	 it,gone  through here.  It is not even suggested that a  riddleor  sieve is used; you merely dig it up or rake it up  whereit  lies, put it on the lorry and sell it wherever you	can.It  is	said what was bought was a mere right to go  on	 theplace  and  win the gravel, but, in effect,  in	 the  GoldenHorse Shoe case (1) what was bought was the licence to go onthe land and take away the tailings, and 'myself think	thatit  is	a distinction without difference  to  suggest  that,because	 nobody	 had  ever applied a  rake  to	this  gravelbefore, it should be treated as capital, whereas if somebodyhad raked it into little heaps before the contract was	madethen  its  purchase  would constitute a	 different  form  ofadventure.  It is the same situation; it is no more and-,.noless attached to the land."In  dealing with this case on appeal, Lord Evershed,  M.  R.(then Sir Raymond Evershed), felt that the case was a littlehard upon the taxpayer, and further that it might, if properenquiry bad been made, have been possible to hold that afterthe  price was paid, the sand and gravel become,  in  truth,the  stock-in-trade  of	 the taxpayer.	 Taking	 the  facts,however,  as  found, he held that what was purchased  was  apart of the(1)  (1933) 18 T.C. 280, 298.708land itself, namely, the gravel in situ.  He held that therewas a distinction between the purchase of a growing crop  orleaves	and  the  purchase of gravel.	Lord  Evershed	thenanalysed the agreement, and observed as follows:" I think that, once it has to be conceded that there was nosale of the gravel in the way the Judge said there was, thenit must follow that what was here acquired was the means  ofgetting	 the gravel by excavating and making it part of	 thestock-in-trade."Reference  was then made by him to cases in which  what	 waspurchased or taken on lease was land or an interest in land,and  Mohanlal Hargovid's case (1) was distinguished  on	 theground	that  in that case it was possible to say  of  tenduleaves	that  they  were acquired as the  raw  material	 formanufacture.   The  argument  of  Mr.  Magnus  in  the	casedescribed  as ail attempt to substitute sand and gravel	 fortendu leaves was not accepted, Lord Evershed observing:" But I cannot say the same of the sand and gravel, part  ofthe earth itself, which was the subject of the contract herein  question  and which I think only could  sensibly  becomepart  of  the  stock-in-trade  of  this	 gravel	  merchants'business  when it had in the true sense been won,  had	beenexcavated  and been taken into their possession."We  are in entire agreement that such a distinction  is	 notonly  palpable	but also sensible.  The present	 case  is  afortiori.  Here, the stones are not lying on the surface butare  part of a quarry from which they have to  be  extractedmethodically  and skilfully before they can be	dressed	 andsold.	These  deposits are extensive, and the work  of	 theassessee  carries him deep under the earth.  Such a  depositcannot	be described as the stock-in-trade of the  assessee,but stones detached and won can only be so described.Before	we deal with the other cases, we wish to  state	 thedistinguishing features of the cases already mentioned,	 andwhich  have not often been viewed together.  In the  Alianzacase (2), the sale was not of the caliche as such but of theright to win it from a(1) (1949) L.R. 76 I.A. 235. (2) (1910) 5 T.C. 60,709deposit	 thereof, and it was treated as an expenditure of  acapital	 nature.  In the Stow Bardolph case(,), the  findingwas that sand and gravel had to be won, and it was held thatthey  could not be treated as stock-in-trade till they	wereactually won.  The doubt expressed by Lord Evershed was thatif the taking of sand and gravel involved merely taking themup and putting them into trucks, the finding could have beenotherwise.   Harman, J., made this distinction, but in	viewof  the	 finding, the Court of Appeal came  to	a  differentconclusion.  Indeed, Harman, J., himself would have  decideddifferently  if there was, in any true sense, a question  ofextracting  gravel.   He, therefore, thought that  the	caseresembled  the	Golden	Horse  Shoe case  (2)  where  the  "tailings  " were bargained for and paid for, and became	 thestock-in-trade	of the tax-payer.  In  Mohanlal	 Hargovind'scase (3), there being no interest in land or trees or plantsand  the right of cultivation and the exclusiveness  of	 theright to the leaves being insignificant, the contracts	weretreated as leading to acquisition of the raw materials.	 Theleaves	on trees were treated as equal to leaves in a  shop.It  was on this ground that case was distinguished from	 theKauri Timber Company case (4), in which land and interest inland  in  the shape of standing timber were  involved.	 Thecase  in Hood-Barrs v. Commissioners of Inland	Revenue	 (5)was  similar  to the last cited.  In the present  case,	 theassessee  acquired a right to extract stones and  his  leaseincluded  not  only  the stones on the top  but	 also  thoseburied	out  of sight under Tons of other stones,  which  hecould only reach after extracting those above.	This case isthus  within  the  rule of those cases in  which  the  rightacquired is to a source from which the raw materials are  tobe extracted.  The doubt expressed by Lord Evershed does notapply  to  the	facts here, because  the  reasons  given  byHarman, J., cannot be made applicable at all.In Kamakshya Narain Singh v. Commissioner of  Income-tax(6),the  case involved payment of certain annual sums by way  ofsalami for mining rights, and(1)   [1955] 27 I.T.R. 146.(3)  [1949] 17 I.T R. 473.(5)  [1958] 34 I.T.R. 238.(2)   (1933) 18 T.C. 280.(4)  [1913] A.C. 771.(6)   [1943] 11 I.T.R. 513.  P.C.710these were regarded as capital income.	There were also	 twoother  payments,  namely,  royalty  on	coal  raised  and  aprovision  for minimum royalty.	 These were regarded as	 notcapital receipts but as assessable income.  In dealing	withthe  nature of the working of a mine,  certain	observationswere  made.  It was contended that the payments amounted  toconversion  of a capital asset into cash.  The argument	 wasrepelled by the Judicial Committee in these words:These  are  periodical payments, to be made  by	 the  lesseeunder  his covenants in consideration of the benefits  whichhe is granted by the lessor.  What these benefits may be  isshown  by  the extract from the lease  quoted  above,  whichillustrates how inadequate and fallacious it is to  envisagethe  royalties	as merely the price of the  actual  tons  ofcoal.	The tonnage royalty is indeed payable when the	coalor  coke  is gotten and despatched; but that is	 merely	 thelast   stage.	 As  preliminary  and  ancillary   to	thatculminating act, liberties #are granted to enter on the landand  search,  to  dig and sink pits, to	 erect	engines	 andmachinery, coke ovens, furnaces and form railways and roads.All  these and the like liberties show how fallacious it  isto  treat the lease as merely one for the acquisition  of  acertain	 number	 of  tons of coal, or  the  agreed  item  ofroyalty	 as  merely  the price of each	ton  of	 coal.	 Thecontract is in truth much more complex.	 The royalty is	 'insubstance a rent; it is the compensation which the  occupierpays  the landlord for that species of occupation which	 thecontract  between  them allows' to quote the words  of	LordDenman	in R. v. Westbrook (1).	 He was referring to  leasesof coal mines, clay pits and slate quarries.  He added	thatin all these the occupation was only valuable by the removalof  portions  of the soil.  It is true that he	was  dealingwith  occupation  from	the point of  view  of	rating,	 butcompensation  has  the same meaning in	its  application  tomatters of taxation such as are involved in this case."Thus, the contention of the learned counsel for the assesseethat we should treat this quolnama as merely(1)  (1875) 10 Q.B. 178711showing a licence and not a lease creating interest in	landis  not correct.  A lease to take out sand was described  inKanjee and Moolji Bros. v. Shanmugam Pillai (1) as amountingto a transfer of interest in immovable property and also so,in  connection	with the Registration Act  in  Secretary  ofState  for India v. Kuchwar Lime and Stone Co. (2).   It  isthus clear that what the assessee acquired was land, a	partof which in the shape of stones he was to appropriate  underthe covenants.	He was not purchasing stones, and the  pricepaid could not in any sense be referable to stones as stock-in-trade.  The stones extracted might have become his stock-in-trade, but the stones in situ were not so.Nor  do	 we agree that the periodicity of payments  has	 anysignificance.  As was pointed out by Lord Greene, M. R.,  inHenriksen's case (3) :"If  the  sum  payable	is not	in  the	 nature	 of  revenueexpenditure,  it  cannot be made so by permitting it  to  bepaid  in annual instalments.  These payments by	 instalmentsin respect of monopoly value have not the annual quality  ofthe payments for the grant of the annual excise licence, butare  of	 a  different character	 altogether......  Here	 theAppellants were minded to acquire as asset in the shape of alicence for a term of years."The  learned  Master  of the Rolls  added  that	 the  annualpayments gave " a false appearance of periodicity ".Applying  the above test to the present case, it is  obviousthat  the  monthly  payments  of  Rs.  1,666-10-8  did	 notrepresent the lease amount for a month.	 This was a case  inwhich  the  assessee bad acquired an asset  of	an  enduringcharacter for which he had to put his hand in his pocket fora  very large sum indeed.  He paid Rs. 96,000 down, but	 forthe  rest  he asked for easy terms.  The amount	 paid  everymonth was not in any sense a payment for acquisition of	 theright  from  month to month.  It was really the	 entire	 sumchopped	 into small payments for his convenience.   Nor	 canthe  amount be described as a business expense, because	 theoutgoings  every  month were not(1)  (1933) I.L.R. 56 Mad. 169. (2) (1937) L.R. 65 I.A.	 45,5,(3)  (1942) 24 T.C. 453.462, C.A,712to  be	taken  as  spent over  purchase	 of  stones  but  indischarge of the entire liability to the jagir.Some  of  the  cases to which we were referred	may  now  bebriefly	 noted.	 Hakim Ram Prasad, In re (1) was a  case  ofrenting of a cinema projector for 10 years.  The amount paidwas thus hire for the machine.	   'In	  Commissioner	  ofIncome-tax v. Globe Theatres  Ltd. (2) the assessee advancedRs. 10,000 to a company	 for  the construction of  a  cinemahouse  which  was  never built.	 Since the  amount  was	 notsalami or premium but only advance rent, it was held deduct-ible.	Commissioner of Income-tax v. Kolhia  Hirdagarh	 Co.Ltd.  (3)  was	a case of commission on every  ton  of	coalraised,	 and it was held to be revenue	expenditure.   Thesecases are entirely different, and can be of no authority forpayments, such as we have.Reliance  was  also placed upon Parmanand Haveli Ram  In  re(4),  Nand  Lal	 Bhoj Raj, In re  (5)  and  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax  v.	Tika  Ram & Sons (6).	In  the	 first	two,expenditure  to acquire lands bearing certain salts  in	 theearth,	which  could be converted  into	 potassium  nitrate,sodium	chloride  or  saltpetre,  was  regarded	 as  revenueexpenditure.   They follow the line of reasoning  which	 thesame Court adopted in the Full Bench case of Benarsidas (7),which  we have considered in detail earlier.  They  involvedshortterm  contracts,  and  in the Full Bench  case  it	 wasstated that the case of long-term leases was on a  differentfooting,  though,  in our opinion, the decisive	 factors  insuch  cases  will be the nature of the acquisition  and	 thereason for the payment.	 Cases on the other side-of the linewhere  payments	 were regarded as  capital  expenditure	 areCommissioner  of Income-tax v. Chengalroya Mudaliar (8)	 andChengalvaroya  Chettiar v. Commissioner of  Income-tax	(9).There the expenditure was for a lease for excavation of limeshells.	 Since the lease conferred exclusive privilege and anew business regarded not as the right to win shells.(1)  [1936] 4 I.T.R. 104.(3)  (1949) 17 I.T.R. 545.(5)  [1946] 14 I.T.R. 181.(7)  [1947] 15 I.T.R. 185.(2)  [1950] 18 I.T.R. 403.(4)  [1945] 13 I.T.R. 157.(6)   [1937] 5 I.T.R. 544.(8)   [1935] I.L.R. 58 Mad. 1.(9)   [1937] 5 I.T.R. 70.713All  these  cases turned on different facts, and it  is	 notnecessary   to	 decide	 which	of  them  in   the   specialcircumstances  were  correctly decided.	 This  enquiry	willhardly	help in the solution of the case in hand.   We	are,however,  satisfied that in this case the assessee  acquiredby his long-term lease a right to win stones, and the leasesconveyed to him a part of land.	 The stones in situ were nothis  stock-in-trade in a business sense but a capital  assetfrom which after extraction he converted the stones into hisstock-in-trade.	  The payment, though periodic in fact,	 wasneither	 rent nor royalty but a lump payment in	 instalmentsfor  acquiring	a capital asset of enduring benefit  to	 histrade.	In this view of the matter, the High Court was rightin treating the outgoings as on capital account.In the result, the appeal fails, and will be dismissed	withcosts.BY  COURT: In accordance with the majority judgment  of	 theCourt, the appeal is dismissed with costs.					 Appeal dismissed.