PETITIONER:THE MANAGEMENT OF HOTEL IMPERIAL, NEW DELHI & OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:HOTEL WORKERS' UNIONDATE OF JUDGMENT:21/05/1959BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1342		  1960 SCR  (1) 476ACT:Industrial  Dispute-Employer seeking permission	 to  dismissworkmen	 as result of enquiry Suspension of workmen  Pendingdecision  of such application by  Tribunal-Validity-Workmen,if   entitled to wages during	Period of  suspension--Grantof interim relief-Power of Supreme court-Industrial DisputesAct, 1947 (14 Of 1947), ss. 10(4), 33.HEADNOTE:  The  appellants,  who were the managements  of  the  threehotels,	 decided to dismiss some of their workmen  who	werefound guilty of misconduct as a result of enquiries held  bythem  and suspended them without pay pending the receipt  ofthe permission of the Industrial Tribunal under S. 33 Of theIndustrial  Disputes Act, 1947.	 The workmen applied to	 theIndustrial Tribunal for the grant of interim relief  pendingdisposal  of the applications and the Tribunal	granted	 therelief	prayed for amounting to full wages and a sum of	 Rs.25  per	 head per month in lieu of  food.   The	 managementsappealed  against  such	 grant,	 but  the  Labour  AppellateTribunal dismissed the appeal---.  The appellants came up tothis  court  by	 special  leave.   The	two  questions	for-,decision in the appeals were, (1) whether any wages were atall  payable  to the suspended	workmen	 pending  permissionbeing sought under S. 33 to dismiss them and the decision ofthe  applications under S. 33 Of the Act, and,	(2)  whetherthe  Industrial	 Tribunal  was competent  to  grant  interimrelief except by an interim award that was published.  Held, that it was well settled that under the ordinary lawof  master  and	 servant the power to  suspend	the  servantwithout477pay  could not be implied as a term in an ordinary  contractof service between the master and the servant but must ariseeither	from  an express term in the contract  itself  or  astatutory provision governing such contract.   Hanley  v. Pease & Partners, Limited, 1915 (1) K.B.	698;Wallwork  v. Fielding and Ors., 1922 (2) K.B. 66;  Secretaryof  State  for	India in Council  v.Surendra  Nath  Goswami,I.L.R.	1939  (1)  Cal.	 46  and  Rura	Ram  v.	  DivisionalSuperintendent,	 N.  W.	 R., I.L.R. VII	 (1954)	 Punj.	415,referred to. But S. 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, which	tookaway  the  right  of the employer to  dismiss  the  employeeexcept	with  the  permission of  the  Industrial  Tribunal,introduced  a  fundamental  change  in	industrial  law	  inmodification of the common law by empowering the employer byimplication  to suspend the contract of employment and	thusrelieve	 himself of the obligation to pay the wages and	 theemployee  of  rendering	 service, where, as a  result  of  aproper	enquiry, he came to the conclusion that an  employeeshould be dismissed.  In the peculiar circumstances  createdby  the enactment of s. 33 Of the Act it was just  and	fairthat Industrial Tribunals, which had the power to go  beyondthe ordinary law of master and servant, should imply such  aterm in the contract of employment.  The result,  therefore,would  be that if the Tribunal granted the  permission,	 thesuspended  contract would come to an end and there would  beno further obligation on the part of the employer to pay anywages  after the date of suspension.  If on the other  hand,the permission was refused. the workmen would be entitled toall their wages from the date of suspension.Western	 India	Automobile  Association	 v.  The  IndustrialTribunal,  Bombay, [1949] F.C.R. 321 and  Rohtas  IndustriesLtd. v. Brijnandan Pandey, [1956] S.C.R. 800, referred to.Lakshmi	 Devi  Sugar Mills Ltd. v. Pt.	 Ram  Sarup,  [1956]S.C.R.	916;  The Management of Ranipur Colliery  v.  DhubanSingh,	C.A.  768/57, decided on 20-4-59,  M/s.	  Sasa	MusaSugar  Works  (P)  Ltd. v. Shobrati Khan,  C.  As.  746	 and747/57,	 decided on 29-4-59 and Phulbari Tea Estate  v.	 ItsWorkmen, [1960] (1) S.C.R. 32 explained and relied on.But  the employer's power of suspension could not take	awaythe  power  of the Tribunal to grant interim relief  to	 theworkmen	 under	the Act, the words "  incidental  thereto  "occurring in S. 10(4) of the Act made it clear that  interimrelief,	 where	admissible,  could be granted  as  a  matterincidental to the main question under reference, although itmight  not  be	expressly  mentioned in	 the  terms  of	 thereference. It is not necessary to decide whether an interim relief  ofthis  nature  amounted to an interim award.   Even  assumingthat the Industrial Tribunal could not grant interim  reliefexcept	by an interim award which required publication	thatcould not preclude478this  Court from granting interim relief in the same  manneras the Industrial Tribunal could and ss. 15, 17 or 17A couldhave  no  of  application to such an order  passed  by	thisCourt.Ordinarily interim relief could not be the whole relief	 theworkmen	 would	get  in	 case  of  final  success  and	 theappellants  should  not be made to pay more  than  half	 theamount adjudged by the Industrial Tribunal as interim reliefin these cases.JUDGMENT:  CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 31-33  of1958.Appeal	by  special leave from the decision  dated  May	 28,1956,  of  the	Labour Appellate  Tribunal,  Lucknow  (DelhiBranch), in Appeals Nos.  Ill. 313-315 of 1955.M. C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, Jai Gopal Sethi,J.  B.	Dadachanji, S. N. Andley, Rameshwar Nath and  P.  L.Vohra, for the appellants (in all appeals).G.   S.	 Pathak,  V. P. Nayar and Janardan Sharma,  for	 therespondents (in all appeals).  1959.	 May 21.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered by  WANCHOO  J.-These are three appeals by special leave	fromthree  decisions of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of  India.We  shall  dispose of them by one judgment,  as	 they  raisecommon points.	The three appellants are the managements  of(1) Imperial Hotel, New Delhi, (2) Maiden's Hotel, Delhi and(3)   Swiss  Hotel,  Delhi,  the  respondents  being   theirrespective workmen represented by the Hotel Workers'  Union,Katra Shahanshahi, Chandni Chowk, Delhi.  It seems that disputes were going on between these  hotelsand their workmen for some time past about the conditions oflabour	of  the workmen employed therein.  Matters  seem  tohave  come to a head about the end of September, 1955 and  astrike of all the workmen in all the three hotels took placeon October 5,1955.  Before this general strike in the  threehotels,	 there	had been trouble in Imperial Hotel  only  inAugust, 1955.  In that connection charge-sheets were  servedon  22	workmen and an enquiry was held	 by  the  managementwhich came to the conclusion that the workmen were479guilty of misconduct and therefore decided to dismiss  them.Consequently,  notices	were served on	October	 1955,	uponthese workmen informing them that the management had decidedto dismiss them subject to obtaining permission under s.  33of the Industrial Disputes Ac, 1947 (hereinafter called	 theAct).	It  seems  that this action  of	 the  management  ofImperial  Hotel led to the general strike in all  the  threehotels on October 5, 1955.  Thereupon the three	 managementsissued notices to the workmen on October 5, 1955,  directingthem  to  re-join their duties within  three  hours  failingwhich  action would be taken against them.  As	the  workmendid not join within this time, fresh notices were issued thesame  day asking them to show cause Why disciplinary  actionshould not be taken against them.  In the meantime they wereinformed that they would be under suspension.  On October 7,1955,  the three managements issued notices to	the  workmeninforming them that it had been decided to dismiss them	 andthat  they  were being suspended pending  the  obtaining  ofpermission under s. 33 of the Act. As  the disputes between the hotels and their workmen	werealready	 under	consideration  of Government,  an  order  ofreference was made on October 12, 1955, relating to ImperialHotel.	 In  this reference a large number of  matters	werereferred  to adjudication including the case of	 22  workmenwhom  the management of the hotel had decided to dismiss  onOctober	 4, 1955.  This reference with respect	to  ImperialHotel,	however,  did  not refer to  the  workmen  whom	 themanagement  had	 decided  to dismiss  on  October  7,  1955.Further	 enquiries seem to have been made by the  managementin this connection and eventually it was decided to  confirmthe  action  taken  on October 7 with  respect	to  nineteenworkmen.  These nineteen workmen had in the meantime appliedunder  s. 33-A of the Act on the ground that they  had	beensuspended without pay for an indefinite period and had	thusbeen  punished in breach of s. 33.  Thus the dispute so	 faras  Imperial  Hotel  is concerned was  with  respect  to  44workmen in all, 25 of whom were included in the480reference  of October 12, 1955, and the remaining 19 in	 hadfiled an application under s. 33-A of the Act.	It does	 notappear,	 however, that Imperial Hotel made  any	 applicationunder  s. 33 of the Act for permission -to dismiss these  19workmen,  though an application under that section was	madeon  October  22,  1955, with respect  to  22  workmen  whosedismissal was decided upon on October 4, 1955.  So far as Maiden's Hotel is concerned, the case relates to26  workmen  whose dismissal was finally considered  by	 themanagement to be necessary on further enquiry after  October7, 1955.  An order of reference was made in the case of thishotel on November 23, 1955, in which the case of 26  workmenwas  referred  to the tribunal along  with  other  matters..Later,	however,  12 of these workmen  were  re-employed  onDecember 10, 1955, and the real dispute therefore so far  asthis hotel is concerned related to 14 workmen. In  the  case	of  Swiss  Hotel  also	there  were  furtherenquiries  after the notices of October 7. In the  meantime,an  application	 was made under s. 33-A of the	Act  by	 theunion  to the conciliation officer.  Eventually, it  appearsthat  on November 10, 1955, reference was made with  respectto 14 workmen to the tribunal for adjudication. We  now,  come	 to the proceedings  before  the  IndustrialTribunal.   In all three cases, applications were  filed  onbehalf	of the workmen for interim relief, the date  of	 theapplication  being October 22 in case of Imperial Hotel	 andNovember  26  in  case of Maiden's Hotel  and  Swiss  Hotel.Replies	 to these applications was filed by the	 managementson  December  5,  1955.	 On the	 same  day,  the  IndustrialTribunal passed an order granting interim relief In the caseof  Imperial Hotel, it ordered that 43, out of	44  workmen,who  had  applied for interim relief should  be	 paid  theirwages  plus  a sum of Rs. 25 per month per head in  lieu  offood  till final decision in the matter of the dismissal  ofthese	workmen.   In  the  case  of  Maiden's	Hotel,	 themanagement  was	 prepared to take back 12 workmen  and	theywere ordered to report for duty or before December 10, 1955.It was also ordered that these 12481workmen	 till they were re-employed and the  "remaining"  13workmen till the decision of their case would be paid by wayof interim relief their wages from October 1, 1955, plus Rs.25 per month per head in lieu of food.	No order was  passedwith  respect  to  the	26th  workman,	namely,	 Chiranjilalsweeper.   In  the case of Swiss Hotel, the  management	 wasprepared  to  take  back six of the workmen  and  they	wereordered	 to report for duty on or before December 10,  1955.In other respects, the order was in the same terms as in thecase of Maiden's Hotel.Then followed three appeals by the three hotels against	 thethree  orders  granting interim relief	These  appeals	weredismissed by the Labour Appellate Tribunal on May 28,  1956.Thereupon  the	three hotels applied for  special  leave  toappeal to this Court, which was granted.  They also  appliedfor stay of the order of the Industrial Tribunal relating topayment of wages plus, Rs. 25 per month per head in lieu  offood.	Stay was granted by this Court on June 5,  1956,  oncondition  that the employers would pay to the	employees  asum  equal  to half of the amount adjudged  payable  by	 theorders	dated  December 5, 1955, in respect of	the  arrearsaccrued	 due  till  then and continue to  pay  in  the	sameproportion  in	future until determination  of	the  disputebetween	 the parties.  It appears that after this  order  ofJune  5,  1956,	 even those workmen who	 had  not  been	 re-employed  after	 the order of December 5, 1955,	 were  takenback  in  service  on July 15, 1956, by	 the  three  hotels.Thus,  2 workmen in the case of Swiss Hotel, 13	 workmen  inthe  case  of Maiden's Hotel and 43 workmen in the  case  ofImperial Hotel were taken back in service.  The  main  contentions on behalf of the  hotels  are	two,namely, (1) are any wages payable at all to workmen who	 aresuspended pending permission being sought under s. 33 of theAct for their dismissal ? and (2) is an industrial  tribunalcompetent to grant interim relief without making an  interimaward which should have been published ?61482Re. (1). The  contention of the appellants under this head is	thatsuspension of the workmen pending permission under s. 33  ofthe Act imposes an absolute bar to the payment of any  wagesto  the	 suspended  workmen.   On  the	other  hand,  it  iscontended  on behalf of the respondents that  suspension  ofworkmen	 involving non-payment of wages is not	contemplatedat  all under the ordinary law of master and servant in	 theabsence of an express term in the contract of employment  tothat effect; and as in these cases there were admittedly  nostanding  orders  providing suspension	without	 payment  ofwages,	it was not open to the appellants to withhold  wagesas  the	 orders	 of suspension made in	these  cases  merelyamounted  to  this that the employers were not	prepared  totake  work  from  the workmen.	Even so, the  right  of	 theworkmen to receive wages remained and the employer was boundto pay the wages during the period of so-called	 suspension.The  Industrial Tribunal as well as the	 Appellate  Tribunaltook the view that in the absence of an express term in	 thecontract  of employment, wages could not be  withheld,	eventhough	the employer might suspend the workman in the  sensethat he was not prepared to take any work from them. The  first question therefore that falls for  considerationis  the	 extent of the power of the employer to	 suspend  anemployee  under the ordinary law of master and servant.	  Itis now well settled that the power to suspend, in the  senseof  a right to forbid a servant to work, is not	 an  impliedterm in an ordinary contract between master and servant, andthat  such  a  power can only be the creature  either  of  astatute governing the contract, or of an express term in thecontract itself.  Ordinarily, therefore, the absence of suchpower  either as an express term in the contract or  in	 therules  framed under some statute would mean that the  masterwould  have  no power to suspend a workman and even  if	 he.does so in the sense that he forbid,% the employee to  work,he  will  have to pay wages during the so-called  period  ofsuspension.   Where,  however,	there is  power	 to  suspendeither in the contract of employment or in483the  statute or the rules framed thereunder, the  suspensionhas  the  effect of temporarily suspending the	relation  ofmaster and servant with the consequence that the servant  isnot  bound to render service and the master is not bound  topay.   These  principles of the ordinary law of	 master	 andservant	 are well settled and have not been disputed  beforeus  by	either party.  Reference in this connection  may  bemade  to Hanley v. Pease and Partners, Limited(1),  Wallworkv. Fielding (2), Secretary of State for India in Council  v.Surendra  Nath	Goswami	 (3)  and  Bura	 Ram  v.  DivisionalSuperintendent, N. W. Railway (4).  The next question that falls for consideration is  whetherthese  principles also apply to a case where the master	 hasdecided to dismiss a servant, but cannot do so at once as hehas  to obtain the permission necessary under s. 33  of	 theAct  and  therefore suspends the workman till he  gets	suchpermission.  This brings us to the sphere of industrial law.Ordinarily,  if	 s. 33 of the Act did  not'  intervene,	 themaster would be entitled to exercise his power of dismissingthe servant in accordance with the law of master and servantand payment of wages would immediately cease as the contractwould come to an end.  But s. 33 of the Act has introduced afundamental  change in the law of master and servant so	 faras  cases which fall within the Act are concerned.   It	 hastherefore to be seen whether Industrial Tribunals which	 aredealing	 with  the  matter under the  Act  must	 follow	 theordinary law of master and servant as indicated above or canimply  a term in the contract in the peculiar  circumstancessupervening under s. 33 of the Act to the effect that  wherethe  master  has  concluded  his enquiry  and  come  to	 thedecision that the servant should be dismissed and  thereuponsuspends  him  pending permission under s. 33,	he  has	 thepower  to  order  such suspension,  which  would  result  intemporarily  suspending the relation of master and  servant,so  that the servant is not bound to render service and	 themaster	is not bound to pay wages.  The power of  IndustrialTribunal in(1)  [1915] 1 K.B. 698.	   (3)	   I L.R. [1939] 1 Cal. 46.(2)  [1922] 2 K.B. 66.	   (4)	   I.L.R.  VII (1954)  Punj.415.484matters of this kind arising out of industrial disputes	 wasconsidered by the Federal Court in Western India 'AutomobileAssociation  v. The Industrial Tribunal, Bombay(1)  and	 thefollowing observations of Mahajan, J. (as he then was) at p.345 are apposite:	      " Adjudication does not, in our opinion,	mean	      adjudication  according to the strict  law  of	      master and servant.  The award of the tribunal	      may  contain  provisions for settlement  of  a	      dispute  which no Court could order if it	 was	      bound by ordinary law, but the tribunal is not	      fettered in any way by these limitations.	  In	      Volume  1 of 'Labour Disputes  and  Collective	      Bargaining' by Ludwig Teller, it is said at p.	      536  that industrial arbitration	may  involve	      the extension of an existing agreement or	 the	      making  Of  a  new  one,	or  in	general	 the	      creation of new obligation or modification  of	      old   ones,  while   commercial,	 arbitration	      generally concerns itself with  interpretation	      of existing obligations and disputes  relating	      to existing agreements.  In our opinion, it is	      a	 true  statement about the functions  of  an	      industrial tribunal in labour disputes."This Court in Rohtas Industries Ltd. v. Brijnandan Pandey (2) also recognised the correctness of the dictum laid down inthe above Federal Court decision and observed that there wasa distinction between commercial and industrial arbitration,and after referring to the same passage in " Labour Disputesand  Collective	 Bargaining " by Ludwig Teller (Vol.  1,  p.536), proceeded to lay down as follows at p. 810:-	      " A Court of law proceeds on the footing	that	      no   power  exists  in  the  courts  to	make	      contracts	 for  people; and the  parties	must	      make  their own contracts.  The  Courts  reach	      their   limit  of	 power	when  they   enforce	      contracts	 which	the parties have  made.	  An	      Industrial Tribunal is not so fettered and may	      create new obligations or modify contracts  in	      the interests of industrial peace, to  protect	      legitimate  trade	 union	activities  and	  to	      prevent unfair practice or victimisation." (1) [1949] F.C.R. 321.	   (2) [1956] S.C.R. 800.485It  is	clear therefore that Industrial Tribunals  have	 thepower  to go beyond the ordinary law of master and  servant,if circumstances justify it.  In these cases the decision ofthe Labour Appellate Tribunal has proceeded strictly on	 thebasis  of  the ordinary law of master  and  servant  withoutregard to the, fundamental change introduced in that law  bythe  enactment of s. 33 of the Act.  All the cases to  whichwe  have been referred with respect to the ordinary  law  ofmaster and servant had no occasion to consider the impact ofs.  33 of the Act on that law as to the power of the  masterto suspend.  We have, therefore, to see whether it would  bereasonable  for an Industrial Tribunal where it	 is  dealingwith  a case to which s. 33 of the Act applies, to  imply  aterm in the contract giving power to the master to suspend aservant	 when  the master has come to the  conclusion  afternecessary enquiry that the servant has committed  misconductand  ought to be dismissed, but cannot do so because  of  s.33.  It is urged on behalf of the respondents that there  isnothing	 in the language of s. 33 to warrant the  conclusionthat  when an employer has to apply under it for  permissionhe  can	 suspend  the workmen  'concerned.   This  argument,however,  begs the question because if there were  any	suchprovision in s. 33, it would be an express provision in	 thestatute authorising such suspension and no further  questionof  an	implied term would arise.  What we have	 to  see  iswhether	 in  the  absence of an express	 provision  to	thateffect	in  s. 33, it will be reasonable for  an  IndustrialTribunal in these extraordinary circumstances arising out ofthe  effect of s. 33 to imply a term in the contract  givingpower to the employer to suspend the contract of employment,thus  relieving himself of the obligation to pay  wages	 andrelieving  the	servant of the corresponding  obligation  torender	service.   We are of opinion. that in  the  peculiarcircumstances which have arisen on account of the  enactmentof s. 33, it is but just and fair that Industrial  Tribunalsshould imply such a term in the contract of employment. This  Court  had occasion to consider this matter  in	fourcases, though the point was not specifically argued486 in  the manner in which it has been argued before  us	now.But  a consideration of these cases will show  that,  thoughthe  point  was not specifically argued, the  view  of	thisCourt has consistently been that in such cases a term shouldbe  implied  giving  power  to the  master  to	suspend	 thecontract  of employment after he has come to the  conclusionon a proper enquiry that the servant should be dismissed andhas to apply to the tribunal for permission under s. 33.  In  Lakshmi Devi Sugar Mills Ltd. v. Pt.  Ram	 Sarup	(1),there was a provision in the standing orders for  suspensionfor  four  days without pay.  In actual fact,  however,	 theemployer  in that case after having come to  the  conclusionthat  the  employees  should  be  dismissed  suspended	themwithout	 pay pending permission of the tribunal and  it	 washeld that such suspension was not punishment, even though itexceeded four days.  This was the main point which was underconsideration in that case; but it was further observed thatsuch a suspension was only an interim measure and would lasttill  the application for permission to punish	the  workmanwas made and the tribunal had passed orders thereon.  If thepermission was accorded the workman would not be paid duringthe period of suspension: but if the permission was refused,he would have to be paid for the whole period.  In The Management of Ranipur Colliery v. Bhuban Singh (2),it was pointed out that but for this ban the employer  wouldhave been entitled to dismiss the employee immediately afterthe  completion of his enquiry on coming to  the  conclusionthat the employee was guilty of misconduct.  The contract ofservice	 would	thus be brought to an end  by  an  immediatedismissal  after  the  conclusion of  the  enquiry  and	 theemployee  would not be entitled to any further wager,.	 Buts.  33 steps in and stops the employer from  dismissing	 theemployee  immediately on the conclusion of his	enquiry	 andcompels	 him  to seek permission of the Tribunal.   It	was,therefore, reasonable that the employer having done all thathe  could  do  to bring the contract of service	 to  an	 endshould not be(1)  [1956] S.C.R. 916.	  (2) C.A. 768/57, decided on  April20, 1959.487expected to continue paying the employee thereafter.  It waspointed	 out  that  in such a case the	employer,  would  bejustified  in  suspending the employee without' pay  as	 thetime taken by the tribunal to accord permission under s.  33of the Act was beyond the control of the employer.   Lastly,it was pointed out that this would not cause any hardship tothe  employee; for if the tribunal granted  permission,	 theemployee  would	 not  get  anything from  the  date  of	 hissuspension with out pay, while if the permission was refusedhe  would  be  entitled to his back wages  from	 such  date.Lakshmi Devi Sugar Mills Ltd. (1) was referred to and it wasexplained  that the principle laid down in that	 case  wouldonly apply where s. 33 would be applicable.In Messrs.  Sasa Musa Sugar' Works (P) Ltd. v. Shobrati Khan(2), the view taken in the two earlier cases was  reiteratedwith  the  rider that in case the employer did not  hold  anenquiry and suspend the workman pending permission, he wouldhave to go on paying the wages till the proceedings under s.33  were  concluded and the tribunal granted  permission  todismiss the workman.  In Phulbari Tea Estate. v. Its Workmen (3), the rider laiddown in the case Messrs.  Sasa Musa Sugar Works (P) Ltd. (2)was  further extended to a case of an adjudication under  s.15  of the Act and it was pointed out that if there was	 anydefect	in  the enquiry by the employer he could  make	goodthat  defect  by  producing necessary  evidence	 before	 thetribunal; but in that case he will have to pay the wages  upto the date of the award of the tribunal, even if the  awardwent in his favour.  It  is urged on behalf of the respondents that there	wereat  any rate some Standing Orders, particularly	 in  LakshmiDevi  Sugar  Mills Ltd. (1) and The  Management	 of  RanipurColliery (4) giving power to suspend for some period of timeand  therefore further suspension might be justified on	 thebasis  of  those Standing Orders.  In the  case	 of  Messrs.Sasa Musa Sugar(1)  [1956] S.C.R. 916.	    (3)	   [1960] 1 S.C.R. 32.(2)  C.As. 746 & 747/57,     (4)   C.A. 768/57 decided on April 29, 1959,   decided on April 20, 1959,488Works  (P) Ltd. (1), however, there were no Standing  Orderstill  then  in force.  The ratio of the	 decision  in  thesecases was, however, not based on the presence or absence  ofthe Standing Orders; for there is very little difference  inprinciple between the cases where Standing Orders provided afew  days  suspension  without pay and	the  suspension	 wascontinued  for a much longer period and where there were  noStanding Orders providing suspension without pay.  We are ofopinion that though these cases did not expressly proceed onthe  basis of an implied term in the contract of  employmentto  suspend  the employee an thus suspend  the	relation  ofmaster	and servant temporarily, that must be  the  implicitbasis  on which these decisions were given.  But for such  aterm  being implied, it would not be possible at all to	 laydown,  as  was laid down in these cases, that  if  a  properenquiry	 bad  been  held and the  employer  had	 decided  todismiss	 the  workman  and  apply  for	permission  and	  inconsequence  had  suspended the workman- there would  be  noobligation  on him to pay wages from the date of  suspensionif  permission	was accorded to him under s.  33.   We	are,therefore,  of opinion that the ordinary law of	 master	 andservant	 as to suspension can be and should be held to	havebeen  modified in view of the fundamental change  introducedby  s.	33  in	that law and a term  should  be	 implied  byIndustrial  Tribunals in the contract of employment that  ifthe  master  has  held	a proper enquiry  and  come  to	 theconclusion  that  the  servant should be  dismissed  and  inconsequence  suspends  him pending the	permission  requiredunder s. 33 he has the power to order such suspension,	thussuspending  the contract of employment temporarily, so	thatthere is no obligation on him to pay wages and no obligationon  the	 servant to work.  In dealing with  this  point	 thebasic and decisive consideration introduced by s. 33 must beborne  in  mind.   The undisputed common law  right  of	 themaster	to  dismiss his servant for proper  cause  has	beensubjected by s. 33 to a ban; and that in fairness must	meanthat,  pending	the removal of the said statutory  ban,	 themaster can(1)  C.As. 746 & 747/57, decided on April 29, 1959.489after  holding	a proper enquiry temporarily  terminate	 therelationship  of  master  and  servant	by  suspending	 hisemployee  pending  proceedings	under  s.  33.	 It  followstherefore  that	 if  the  tribunal  grants  permission,	 thesuspended contract would come to an end and there will be nofurther	 obligation  to	 pay any wages	after  the  date  ofsuspension.   If,  on  the other  hand,	 the  permission  isrefused, the suspension would be wrong and the workman wouldbe entitled to all his wages from the date of suspension. This,	however, does not conclude the matter so far as	 thegrant  of interim relief in these cases is concerned.	Eventhough	there  may be an implied term giving  power  to	 theemployer to suspend a workman in the circumstances mentionedabove,	it  would not affect the power of  the	tribunal  togrant  interim relief for such a power of suspension in	 theemployer  would not, on the principles already	referred  toabove, take away the power of the tribunal to grant  interimrelief if such power exists under the Act.  The existence ofsuch  an implied term cannot bar the tribunal from  grantinginterim	 relief if it has the power to do so under the	Act.This brings us to the second point, which has been canvassedin these appeals.Re. (2).After  a dispute is referred to the tribunal under s. 10  ofthe  Act,  it is enjoined on it by s. 15 to  bold  its	pro-ceeding	 expeditiously and on the conclusion thereof  submitits  award to the appropriate government.  An " award  "  isdefined	 in  s. 2(b) of the Act as meaning " an	 interim  orfinal  determination  by  an  Industrial  Tribunal  of	 anyindustrial  dispute  or of any question	 relating  thereto."Where an order referring an industrial dispute has been madespecifying  the	 points	 of dispute  for  adjudication,	 thetribunal has to confine its adjudication to those points andmatters	 incidental  thereto; (s. 10(4)).  It  is  urged  onbehalf	of the appellants that the tribunal in	these  caseshad to confine itself to adjudicating on the points referredand that as the question of interim relief was not  referredto it, it could not adjudicate upon that.  We are of opinion62490that  there  is no force in this argument, in  view  of	 thewords  " incidental thereto " appearing in s. 10(4).   Therecan   be  no  doubt  that  if,	for  example,  question	  ofreinstatement and/or compensation is referred to a  tribunalfor  adjudication, the question of granting  interim  relieftill  the decision of the tribunal with respect to the	samematter	would be a matter incidental thereto under s.  10(4)and  need  not	be specifically referred  in  terms  to	 thetribunal.  Thus interim relief where it is admissible can begranted as a matter incidental to the main question referredto  the	 tribunal without being itself referred	 in  expressterms. The next question is as to how the tribunal should  proceedin  the matter if it decides to grant interim  relief.	 Thedefinition  of the word "award" shows that it can be  eitheran interim or final determination either of the whole of thedispute referred to the tribunal or of any question relatingthereto.   Thus it is open to the tribunal to give an  awardabout  the  entire dispute at the end  of  all	proceedings.This  will be final determination of the industrial  disputereferred to it.	 It is also open to the tribunal to make  anaward  about some of the matters referred to it whilst	someothers still remain to be decided.  This will be an  interimdetermination  of any question relating thereto.  In  eithercase  it  will have to be published as required	 by  s.	 17.Such awards are however not in the nature of interim  relieffor  they  decide the industrial dispute  or  some  questionrelating  thereto.   Interim relief, on the other  hand,  isgranted	 under the power conferred on the tribunal under  s.10(4)  with respect to matters incidental to the  points  ofdispute for adjudication. It  is however urged on behalf of the appellants that	evenif the tribunal has power under s. 10(4) of the Act to grantinterim	 relief of the nature granted in these cases it	 canonly  do  so  by  submitting an award under  s.	 15  to	 theappropriate  government.   Reference in this  connection  ismade  to  sections  15,	 17 and 17-A  of  the  Act.   It  issubmitted that as soon as the tribunal makes a determinationwhether interim or final, it must submit that  determinationto  government which has to publish it as an award under  s.17 and thereafter491the  provisions	 of s. 17-A will apply.	 In reply  the	res-pondents rely on a decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunalin Allen Berry and Co. Ltd. v. Their Work. men(1), where  itwas  held  that an interim award had not to be sent  like  afinal  award to the government for publication and  that  itwould  take  effect from the date of the order.	 We  do	 notthink it necessary to decide for present purposes whether anorder  granting	 interim  relief of this kind  is  an  awardwithin	the  meaning  of  s.  2(b)  and	 must  therefore  bepublished  under  s. 17.  We shall assume that	the  interimorder passed by the Tribunal on December 5, 1955, could	 notbe  enforced as it was in the nature of an award and  shouldhave been submitted to the government and published under s.17  to	become enforceable under s. 17-A.  It  is,  however,still open to us to consider whether we should pass an ordergiving	interim	 relief in view of  this  alleged  technicaldefect in the order of the Industrial Tribunal.	 We have thepower  to  grant interim relief in the same  manner  as	 theIndustrial Tribunal could do and our order need not be	sentto  government for publication, for ss. 159 17 and  17-A  donot  apply to the order of this Court just as they  did	 notapply  to the decision of the Appellate Tribunal  which	 wasgoverned  by  the Industrial Disputes  (Appellate  Tribunal)Act, 1950 (No.	XLVIII of 1950), (since repealed).  We	havealready mentioned that this Court passed an order on June 5,1956,  laying  down  conditions	 on  which  it	stayed	 theoperation  of  the order of December 5, 1955,  made  by	 theIndustrial  Tribunal.  We are of opinion that order  is	 theright order to pass in the matter of granting interim reliefto  the workmen in these cases.	 Ordinarily, interim  reliefshould not be the whole relief that the workmen would get ifthey  succeeded	 finally.   In fairness	 to  the  IndustrialTribunal  and the Appellate Tribunal we must say  that	theygranted the entire wages plus Rs. 25 per mensem per head  inlieu of food on the view that no suspension was possible  atall  in	 those cases and therefore the contract	 of  servicecontinued  and full wages must be paid.	 Their orders  mighthave been different(1)  [1951] 1 L.L.J. 228.492if they had held otherwise.  It seems to us just and fair inthe  circumstances  therefore to order that  the  appellantsshall  pay  to their respective workmen concerned  half	 theamount adjudged payable by the order dated December 5, 1955,with respect to the entire period, as the case may be,	fromOctober	 1, 1955 to December 10, 1955 or July 15,  1956,  bywhich date, as we have already pointed out, practically	 allthe  workmen  were taken back in  service.   We,  therefore,order accordingly. Lastly,  it is urged on behalf of the respondents  that  asall  the workmen concerned were taken back in  service	theyshould	be paid full wages for the interim period  as  theirre-employment  means that the decision to dismiss  them	 andthe  consequent order of suspension were waived.  This is  amatter	on which we do not propose to express  any  opinion.The  proceedings  are so far at the initial  stage  and	 theeffect	of re-empolyment, in the absence of full  facts,  onthe  question of waiver cannot be determined at this  stage.It  is	enough to point out that the order  we	have  passedabove  is  an  interim relief and it will be  liable  to  bemodified one way or the other, when the Industrial  Tribunalproceeds  to make the final determination of  the  questionsreferred to it in the light of the observations we have madeon the matter of suspension.  The appeals are partly allowedand  the  order dated December, 5,  1955,  granting  interimrelief	is modified in the manner indicated above.   In	 thecircumstances, we order the parties to bear their own  costsof  this  Court.  As more than three years have gone  by  inthese preliminaries since the references were made, we trustthat the Industrial Tribunal will now dispose of the  matteras expeditiously as possible.		     Appeals allowed in part.       493