PETITIONER:M/S.  MADAN MOHAN DAMMA MAL LTD. AND ANR.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL AND ANR.DATE OF JUDGMENT:24/11/1960BENCH:DAYAL, RAGHUBARBENCH:DAYAL, RAGHUBARIMAM, SYED JAFFERSARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1961 AIR 1013		  1961 SCR  (2) 664ACT:Food	 Adulteration--Storing	  adulterated	 oil	 forsale--Presumption, rebuttal of--Calcutta Municipal Act, 1951(W.B. XXXIII of 1951), s. 462.HEADNOTE:The first appellant No. 1 sent a consignment of mustard	 oilin a tank wagon from Firozabad, U. P. to itself at  Calcuttawhere  it  took	 delivery  of the  wagon  from	the  railwayauthorities.   The  Food Inspector took samples of  the	 oilfrom   the  wagon  which  on  analysis	were  found  to	  beadulterated.  The appellants were prosecuted under s. 462 ofthe  Calcutta  Municipal Act, 951  for	storing	 adulteratedmustard oil for sale.  The665appellants  contended that the presumption under sub-s.	 (4)of  s.	462  that the mustard oil was stored  for  sale	 wasrebutted  in view of certain arrangements between the U.  P.Oil  Millers  Association  and the  Deputy  Commissioner  ofPolice	and  of a letter written by the	 appellants  to	 theAssociation asking that a sample may be taken and tested  sothat the appellants "may take the delivery of oil only if itis found pure on analysis."Held,	that   this  was  not  sufficient   to	 rebut	 thepresumption'. that the oil was stored for sale.	 The  letterdid  not  say  that the oil would not be sold;	it  was	 notstated	as to what would be done if the oil was found to  beimpure.	  There was no arrangement between  the	 Associationand  the  Corporation which was the sole authority  to	takeaction.	  The  arrangement and the letter were a  device  tomake detection difficult.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 118  of1959.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJuly 2, 1957, of the Calcutta High Court in Criminal  AppealNo. 101 of 1956 arising out of the judgment and order  datedJanuary	 16,  1956,  of the Second Court  of  the  MunicipalMagistrate, Calcutta, in case No. 208B of 1955.C.  B. Aggarwala, B. B. Tawakley and B. P.  Maheshwari,	 forthe appellant.Nalin Chandra Bannerjee, Sunil K. Basu, S. N. Mukherjee	 forP. K. Bose, for the respondent No. 2.1960.  November 24.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyRAGHUBAR  DAYAL,  J.-This  is an  appeal  by  special  leaveagainst the 'Order of the Calcutta High Court affirming	 theconviction of the appellants Messrs.  Madan Mohan Damma	 MalLtd.,  and Om Prokash Manglik, its Manager, under s. 462  ofthe  Calcutta  Municipal Act, 1951 (W.	B. XXXIII  of  1951)hereinafter called the Act.The  facts  leading to this appeal are that  Messrs.   MadanMohan  Damma Mal Ltd., (hereinafter called appellant No.  1)sent  a	 consignment  of mustard oil, about  499  maunds  inweight, from Firozabad, the place of manufacture, to itself,at Calcutta, on December 25, 1954, in tank wagon No.  75612.This wagon was placed at the Pathuriaghat siding at Calcuttaat666about 8.45 a.m., on January 3, 1955.  Dr. Nityananda  Bagui,Food  Inspector of the Calcutta Corporation, accompanied  bycertain police officers, went to that siding and took  threesamples	 of  mustard  oil contained  in	 this  wagon,  afterarranging with Om Prokash Manglik, appellant No. 2, who	 wasfound  near the wagon, the purchase of 12 ounces of oil	 forannas  eight.	He took the sample of oil in  three  phials.They were properly sealed.  One of them was given to  appel-lant  No. 2. The other two were kept by Dr. Bagui.  He	sentone of them to the Public Analyst for examination, the	sameday.  Ashit Ranjan Sen, the Public Analyst, examined the oilcontained  in that phial on January 3, 1955, but  could	 notcome  to any positive opinion about its purity.	 Dr.  Bagui,however, seized the tank wagon that evening, sealed it	withthe  Corporation's  seal  and  left it	in  the	 custody  ofappellant  No.	2.  The oil in the tank was  allowed  to  beremoved to the godown of the appellants on January 6,  1955.The lock of the godown was then sealed with the seal of	 theCorporation.  Mr. Sen reported on January 4, 1955, that	 theoil  was adulterated.  He sent a detailed report  about	 theresult	of the examination on January 24, 1955.	 On  receiptof  the report about the mustard oil being adulterated,	 Dr.Bagui  filed a complaint against the appellants on  February4, 1955, with respect to their. selling and keeping for salemustard	 oil, a sample of which was found on analysis to  bemustard oil which was adulterated with groundnut oil.During	the  course  of the trial, the trial  Court,  on  anapplication  on	 behalf	 of  the  appellants,  ordered	 thedespatch of the third sample phial of the oil in the custodyof  the	 Corporation's Health Officer, to  the	Director  ofHealth Services, Government of West Bengal, for analysis andreport.	  This	sample was analysed by	Dulal  Chandra	Dey,Court  Witness	no.  1, and found  to  be  adulterated	withgroundnut oil.	The report of the Analyst was, however, sentto the Court under the signature of Dr. S. K. Chatterjee, D.W. 2, Deputy Director of Health Services, Government of WestBengal.667The  appellants	 appear to have sent the sample	 of  oil  intheir  possession  to  Om Prakash, Oil Expert  to  the	U.P.Government,  who reported on July 27, 1955, that the  sample'conforms  to  Agmark Specification for Mustard Oil  and  isconsidered  to	be  free from adulterants  such	 as  sesame,groundnut  and linseed oil'.  This report, however, has	 notbeen proved.The  Deputy  Commissioner  of  Police,	Enforcement  Branch,Calcutta, sent a sample of mustard oil on January 10,  1955,to  the	 Public Analyst, Food & Water,	West  Bengal  PublicHealth Laboratory.  Sri S. N. Mitra, D. W. 7, examined	thissample	and  reported, on the basis  of	 its  saponificationvalue  to  be 173.3, and iodine value to be  105,  that	 thesample approximated to the standards of genuine mustard oil.This  report does not establish that the sample was of	puremustard oil.  Sri Mitra's reply to the query from the DeputyCommissioner  of Police for clarification, makes  this	veryclear.	It is:"But,  unless  conclusive  evidence of	the  presence  of  aforeign	 oil, corroborated in some instances by the  figuresof  the usual oil contents, is obtained, the sample  is	 notand cannot be declared adulterated.  In the present case thesample of mustard oil has already been examined exhaustivelyand  has been certified as `approximating to standards'	 butnot as genuine.	 The legal implication of the expression  isthat the sample will have the benefit of doubt."Further,  there	 is  no	 good  evidence	 on  the  record  toestablish  that	 the sample sent to Sri Mitra was  a  samplefrom the appellants' tank wagon.Dr.  Bagui does not depose about the police people taking  asample	of  oil.   He was not questioned  about	 the  policetaking	any  sample of the oil.	 There seems to be  no	goodreason for the police taking a sample of oil for the purposeof analysis and finding out whether the mustard oil was pureor  not.   The	case  put to Dr.  Bagui	 during	 his  cross-examination,  on behalf of the appellants, appears  to	havebeen  that he himself had taken four samples of the  mustardoil  in question and that one of those samples was  sent  tothe Enforcement Branch.	 Dr. Bagui denied that he had taken668four  samples  of the mustard oil, His	statement  is  fullycorroborated  by  the  statement of  Kalidas  Ganguli,	Sub-Inspector,  Calcutta Enforcement Branch, Police	 Department,who  had accompanied Dr. Bagui on the occasion.	  He  statedthat  the Corporation Food Inspector took three samples	 andthe  police took the one ,,sample which was sealed with	 theCorporation  seal.   We are not satisfied  that	 the  policeactually  took one sample of the oil and had it sealed	withthe Corporation seal as deposed to by Kalidas Ganguli.The Courts below found on the evidence that the mustard	 oilin the appellants' tank wagon was adulterated with groundnutoil, that the appellants were in possession of that oil	 andhad  stored  that oil for sale, in view of  the	 presumptionarising under subs. (4) of s. 462 of the Act, and which	 hadnot  been  rebutted on behalf of  the  appellants.   Learnedcounsel for the appellants has questioned the correctness ofthese findings.We  have  considered  the evidence in  connection  with	 theanalysis  of  the samples of mustard oil  by  the  Chemists.Ashit  Ranjan Sen, P.W. 2, Public Analyst, who examined	 thefirst  sample sent by Dr. Bagui on January 3-4, 1955,  foundit  adulterated,  on the basis of the data that	 the  B.  R.Index  at  40 degree C was 60.4 and the Bellier's  test	 forgroundnut oil was positive inasmuch as it gave turbidity  at28  degree  C.	Court Witness no. 1, Dulal  Chand  Dey,	 whoactually  analysed the sample sent by the Court, also  foundit   adulterated,  on  the  basis  of  his   obtaining	 thesaponification	value  to  be  175.5,  iodine  value  to  be106degree 8 and the appearance of turbidity at 27 degree  C.He  also found indication of the presence of a small  amountof  linseed  oil.  The correctness of his opinion  on  thesedata   is   admitted  by  Sri  Mitra,  D.W.  7.	  In   thesecircumstances,	the  finding of the Courts  below  that	 themustard oil in the appellant's tank wagon was adulterated iscorrect.   It is not established that the sample of  mustardoil  sent  to Sri Mitra by the Deputy  Commissioner  of	 theEnforcement  Branch  contained mustard oil  from  this	tankwagon.	 The opinion of Sri Mitra about the nature  of	thatsample therefore does not go against the opinion669of Sri Sen and Sri Dey that the mustard oil analysed by themwas adulterated with groundnut oil.The  other contention for the appellants is that  they	werenot in possession of the oil when the sample of mustard	 oilwas  taken  by Dr. Bagui and that therefore  no	 presumptionunder sub-s. (4) of s. 462 of the Act can be raised  againstthem  for  holding  that the oil was stored  for  sale.	  Itappears	 from  the judgment of the High Court  under  appealthat  it was not disputed at the hearing before it that	 theappellants  were  in  possession of the	 mustard  oil  whosesample had been taken.	On the evidence on the record we areof opinion that they were in possession of the mustard	oil.The  consignment  of oil was from  the	manufacturing  firm,appellant  no.	1,  to itself  at  Calcutta.   Its  manager,appellant no. 2, took delivery of the wagon from the railwayauthorities on January 3, 1955.	 There is no direct evidenceto  the	 effect that such delivery was taken  prior  to	 Dr.Bagui's	  taking  sample  of  the  mustard  oil.   But	 thecircumstances,	in our opinion, conclusively establish	thatappellant no. 2 had taken delivery of the wagon prior to Dr.Bagui's	 visit	and taking samples of oil  from	 the  wagon.Appellant  no. 2 is not expected to and could not  have	 gotthe wagon opened for 'the purpose of taking samples of	oil,if  he had not taken delivery of the wagon from the  railwayauthorities.  The railway authorities themselves would	haveseen  to  it that nobody tampers with the  contents  of	 thewagon  in its charge.  Appellant no. 2 must  have  thereforepaid  the freight for the wagon prior to Dr.  Bagui's  visitand thus obtained delivery of the wagon.  It was  thereafterthat he got control over the wagon and was in a position  totake  out oil from it or to permit anyone else to  take	 outoil.   We  therefore  hold  that  the  appellants  were	  inpossession of the oil in the tank wagon when Dr. Bagui	tooksamples of the oil from it.The main contention, however, for the appellants is that thepresumption that the mustard oil was stored for sale by	 theappellants,  under  sub-s.  (4) of s. 462  of  the  Act,  isrebuttable  and has been fully rebutted in view	 of  certainarrangements between the83670U.P. Oil Millers Association and the Deputy Commissioner  ofPolice, Enforcement Branch, and the letter of the appellantsto  the Secretary of the Association (Exhibit R) on  January3,  1955.   We have considered the various  documents  whichhave been referred to in support of the arrangement  betweenthe  Association stand the Deputy Commissioner,	 EnforcementBranch,	 but  do  not  find  therein  anything	which  wouldrestrain legally the appellants from selling the oil even ifit  is	found  to be adulterated.  The	proceedings  of	 themeeting of the U. P. Oil Millers Association held on June 9,1954, and attended by the Deputy Commissioner and  AssistantCommissioner  of  the Enforcement Branch show that  no	suchagreement  has been arrived at. Even the suggestion  of	 theDeputy Commissioner that all the members of the	 Associationshould write to their respective mills that all the quantityof oil which would be imported should at first be passed andthen  made delivery of, was not fully accepted, the  memberssimply stating that they always and invariably imported puremustard	 oil.  It was, however, decided that the samples  ofoil be taken from the next morning, i.e., June 10, 1954.  Wehowever	 find  that in November 1954 the U. P.	Oil  MillersAssociation wrote to appellant no.  I that according to	 thedecision  of the Deputy Commissioner of Police,	 EnforcementBranch, every application to draw sample and test it  shouldbe accompanied by a certificate signed by the Chemist or theManager	 or the Proprietor of the Mills to the	effect	thatthe mustard oil in the tank wagon was pure mustard oil	freefrom  Argemoni, linseed or any other adulteration, and	thatin February 1955 and April 1955, the Deputy Commissioner  ofPolice,	 Enforcement  Branch  had to remind the	 U.  P.	 OilMillers	 Association that it should advise all	its  membersthat  whenever	they  indent any mustard  oil  from  outsideBengal,	 they  would  see  that	 the  railway  receipts	  beaccompanied  by a clear certificate of examination from	 theChemist	 of  the  factory  who	examined  the  same.	Suchdirections   from   the	 Deputy	 Commissioner	of   Police,Enforcement Branch, do not appear to have671had any great effect, as the consignment of oil received  bythe  appellants was without any such certificate.   MahendraKumar  Gupta,  D.W.  1, Chemist	 of  the  appellants'  mill,deposed however that he had taken the sample of the oil sentin  that wagon and found it to be genuine mustard oil,	freefrom  any  adulteration.   Any such  certificate  about	 thepurity	of  the	 mustard  oil sent is  not  proved  to	haveaccompanied  the railway receipt and to have been  shown  ormade  over to Dr. Bagui, or to the Police Officers  who	 hadaccompanied  him at the time.  Letter Exhibit R was sent  onbehalf of appellant no.	 I to the Secretary of the U. P. OilMillers	 Association  at 10 a.m., on January 3,	 1955.	 Theletter said:"Please	 arrange  for  sample and test	through	 the  properauthorities  concerned, so that we may take the delivery  ofoil  only  if  it  is found  pure  on  analysis."  Any	suchstatement can hardly be sufficient to rebut the	 presumptionthat  the  oil which was consigned by appellant	 no.   I  toitself	at Calcutta was stored for sale.  The letter  itselfdoes not say that the oil will not be sold.  It simply	saysthat  they  may take the delivery of the oil only if  it  isfound pure on analysis.	 What would be done to the oil if itis  found to be impure, is not stated.	The Association	 wasnot  in any arrangement with the Corporation which  had	 thesole authority to take action with respect to the adulterat-ed  mustard oil.  The Enforcement Branch of the	 Police	 hadnothing	 to do with it.	 In the circumstances, all  the	 so-called arrangement with the Enforcement Branch of the Policeand  the  consequent letters, similar to letter	 Exhibit  R,seem to be a subtle device to make things difficult for	 theproper	authorities responsible to see that mustard oil	 fitfor sale be pure.It  is	obvious	 in  this case	itself,	 how  this  sort  ofarrangement  has  provided an occasion for the	coming	intoexistence  of the alleged fourth sample of mustard oil	fromthe  appellants'  tank wagon and  the  non-committal  reportabout  its  purity.  We are therefore of opinion  that	thisletter	Exhibit	 R,  or the arrangement which  led  to	suchcommunication, does not establish672that  the mustard oil in the wagon which will  be  otherwisepresumed  to be stored for sale by the appellants,  was	 notstored for sale.We  are	 therefore  of opinion that the	 conviction  of	 theappellants  of	the  offence  under s. 462  of	the  Act  iscorrect.  The appeal therefore stands dismissed.		     Appeal dismissed.