PETITIONER:THE STATE OF BIHAR	Vs.RESPONDENT:RANI SONABATI KUMARIDATE OF JUDGMENT:20/09/1960BENCH:AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALABENCH:AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALADAS, S.K.KAPUR, J.L.SUBBARAO, K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1961 AIR  221		  1961 SCR  (1) 728 CITATOR INFO : R	    1963 SC1241	 (85) RF	    1964 SC 669	 (14) MV	    1967 SC 997	 (47,59) R	    1974 SC 555	 (78)ACT:Temporary  injunction-Disobedience by State of order  issuedagainst	 it-Proceeding	in  contempt,  against	the   State-Maintainablity-Code  of	 Civil	Procedure, 1908	 (Act  V  of1908), 0. 39, r. 2(3)-Constitution of India, Art. 300.HEADNOTE:The  respondent	 sued the State of Bihar for  a	 declarationthat the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950, was ultra vires, voidand   unconstitutional	and  for  a   permanent	  injunctionrestraining  the  State	 and its  officers  or	agents	fromissuing any notification thereunder in respect of her estateor  taking possession thereof and on a petition filed  alongwith  the plaint obtained an order of  temporary  injunctionagainst	 the  State  in terms of  her  prayer,	pending	 thehearing of the suit.  More than a year thereafter, the Statemade  an  application under 0. 39, r. 4 of the	Code  for  adischarge of the order of temporary injunction on the groundthat  the  impugned Act had in another	case  been  declarervalid by the Supreme Court.  Before that application  could,however,  be  heard,  the State of Bihar, on  May  19,	1952issued	 a   notification  under  s.  3(1)   of	  the	Act,authenticated by the Additional Secretary to the Government,declaring that, amongst others, the respondent's estate	 hadvested	in  the State of Bihar under the provisions  of	 theAct.   Thereupon  the respondent moved the trial  Court	 fortaking action against the State under 0. 39, r. 2(3) of	 theCode.	The  contention on behalf of the State was  that  inview  of  Art.	31-B of the Constitution the  issue  of	 thenotification was lawful and could not constitute contempt ofCourt.	The Subordinate judge held that this was no  defenceto the application by the respondent and directed attachmentof  the appellant's property to the value of Rs.  5,000	 andthe High Court on appeal affirmed that decision.Held,  that  the courts below took the correct view  of	 thematter and that the appeal must be dismissed.The  procedure	laid down by 0. 39, r. 2(3) of the  Code  ofCivil  Procedure  is remedial and essentially  one  for	 theenforcement or execution of an order of temporary injunctionpassed	under  0. 39, r. 2(1) and is available	against	 theState although the provision for detention may not apply  toit.   It is wrong to say that it is either contrary to	Art.300  of the Constitution or hit by the rule that  no  actionlies  against  the  State  in  tort  or	 for  a	 wrong-doingentailing punishment or compensation.District  Board	 of Bhagalpur v. Province of  Bihar,  A.I.R.1954729Pat. 529 and Tarafatullah v. S. N. Maitra, A.I.R. 1952	Cal.gig, distinguished.There is also no basis for the contention that the State  isnot  expressly or by necessary implication mentioned  in  0.39,  r.	 2(3).	 The  word 'person'  used  by  it,  properlyconstrued, includes the defendant against whom the order  ofinjunction  is	primarily  issued as  also  the	 defendant'sagents,	 servants and workmen.	Since the court's  power  toissue  an  order of temporary injunction against  the  Stateunder  0.  39, r. 2(1) cannot be in doubt,  disobedience  ofsuch  an  order when issued necessarily attracts 0.  39,  r.2(3) of the Code.Director  of  Rationing	 & Distribution	 v.  Corporation  ofCalcutta, [1961] 1 S.C.R. 158, held inapplicable.Held,  further, that when once an order is passed which	 theCourt has jurisdiction to pass, it is the duty of the  Stateno  less  than any private party to obey it so	long  as  itstands,	 and  the  conduct of the State	 Government  in	 theinstant case in issuing the notification at a time when	 itsapplication  for vacating the injunction was  still  pendingand the attitude taken up by it after the application  under0.  39, r. 2(3) was made and persisted in till the end	mustbe disapproved.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 83 of 1956.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated June 30, 1954,  ofthe  Patna High Court in Appeal from Original Order No.	 255of 1952.Lal Narayan Sinha and S. P. Varma, for the appellant.A.   V.	 Viswanatha Sastri, B. K. Saran, D. P. Singh and  K.L. Mehta, for the respondent.1960.	September  20.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byAYYANGAR  J.-The  State of Bihar is the	 appellant  in	thisappeal which comes before us on a certificate granted by theHigh   Court  of  Patna	 under	Art.  133(1)  (c)   of	 theConstitution. The  principal	 point	of law raised for  decision  in	 theappeal is whether a State is liable to be proceeded  againstunder 0. 39, r. 2(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure, when itwilfully disobeys-an order of temporary injunction passed ofnomine against it.There  is little controversy regarding the facts,  but	theyhave to be set out to appreciate some of the matters debatedbefore US.730The Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950 (which we shall refer to asthe Act), which provided for the transference to the  'Stateof  the	 interests  of proprietors  and	 ,tenure-holders  inestates	 within	 the  State,  received	the  assent  of	 thePresident  on September 11, 1950, and was published  in	 theBihar  Gazette	on  September  25,  1950.   Thereupon	RaniSonabati Kumari, the respondent, who was the proprietress ofthe  Ghatwali  Estate of Handwa situated within	 the  State,instituted  against the State of Bihar, in the Court of	 theSubordinate Judge, Dumka, on the 20th November, 1950,  TitleSuit  40 of 1950, inter alia for a declaration that the	 Actwas ultra vires of the Bihar Legislature and was therefore "illegal,  void, unconstitutional and inoperative " and	thatthe defendant had " no right to issue any notification underthe  said Act or to take possession or otherwise  meddle  orinterfere  with the management of the estate in suit  "	 andfor a permanent injunction " restraining the defendant,	 itsofficers,  servants, employees and agents from	issuing	 anynotification under the provisions of the Bihar Land  ReformsAct, in respect of the plaintiff's estate " and also "	fromtaking	possession of the said estate and from	meddling  orinterfering in any way with the management thereof ".Along with the plaint, the respondent filed a petition for atemporary injunction in which the prayer ran:"  It  is therefore prayed that a  temporary  injunction  beissued	against	 the  defendant,  its  officers,  employees,servants  or  agents  restraining  them	 from  issuing	 anynotification with regard to the plaintiff's estate under theBihar  Land  Reforms Act, 1950 (Act XXX of  1950)  and	frommeddling or interfering with the possession of the plaintiffto the properties in suit, till the disposal of this suit ".The   Court  issued  an	 ex  parte  ad	interim	  injunctionpresumably  in	terms  of the prayer in	 the  petition,	 anddirected notice of the petition to be served on the State ofBihar who filed their counter-affidavit on December 9, 1950,opposing  the  grant of any interim injunction	and  prayingthat the petition be dismissed			    731with costs.  The petition was heard in the presence of	boththe  parties  on March 19, 1951, and the  Subordinate  Judgemade  the ad interim injunction absolute and the order	wenton  to add " and it is ordered that the defendant shall	 notissue  any  notification for taking over possession  of	 thesuit  properties  under the Land Reforms Act and  shall	 notinterfere  with	 or  disturb in any  manner  the  plaintiffspossession over these properties under any of the  provisionof the aforesaid Act until this suit is finally disposed  ofby  this Court ". The order was appealable under 0.  43,  r.(1)  (r) of the Code, but the State preferred no appeal	 andso it became final.On  May 17, 1952, an application was filed by the State	 forvacating  the order, on the ground that the validity of	 theAct had been upheld by this Court in another case  involvingthe  same  points and that thereafter the plaintiff  had  noprima facie case to sustain the injunction.  Before  howeverthis  application invoking the powers of the Court under  0.39,  r. 4 of the Code came on for hearing-(it  was  actuallyheard on May 30, 1952, when it reserved it for orders to  bepronounced on June 2, 1952) the State of Bihar issued on May19, 1952, a notification under s. 3(1) of the Act  declaringthat the Handwa Raj Estate belonging to the respondent,	 hadpassed	to  and	 became	 vested	 in  the  State	 under	 theprovisions of the Act.	The notification ran:"In exercise of the powers conferred by sub. section (1)  ofsection 3 of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950 (Bihar Act XXXof  1950), the Governor of Bihar is pleased to declare	thatthe Estates described in the First Schedule and the  tenuresdescribed in the Second Schedule hereto annexed belonging tothe proprietor and the tenure-holder named in the respectiveschedules have, with effect from the date of the publicationof  this  notification in the Bihar Gazette, passed  to	 andbecame vested in the State under the provisions of this	 Act".The Handwa Raj Estate with the name of the respondent as thetenure holder was specified in the Second Schedule.732This was followed by an authentication in these terms:	     By order of the Governor of Bihar,		     K. K. Mitra,	    Additional Secretary to Government."On coming to know of this notification the respondent  movedthe  Subordinate  Judge on June 2, 1952, for  taking  actionagainst the defendant in the suit, for contempt under 0. 39,r. 2(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure.When  notice  of this petition was served on  the  State  itsubmitted an answer in these terms:"That in obedience to the said order, the defendant begs  tosubmit that in view of the Article 31B of the  Constitution,the aforesaid Notification, dated 19-5-52, and published  inBihar Gazette, dated 21.5.52 is valid, legal and  authorisedand  the  publication  of  the	same  does,  not  constitutecontempt of court."The only matter here set out, viz., that the  constitutionalvalidity of the Act had been affirmed by an amendment of theConstitution,  could  obviously	 afford no  defence  to	 thebreach	of  an	injunction order and  indeed  this  was	 notsought.	 to be supported before us. The learned	 SubordinateJudge passed an order on July 31, 1952, which ran " that  inview  of  the  notification constituting  a  breach  of	 theinjunction,  the  property of the defendant State  of  Biharshall be attached to the value of Rs. 5,000.  The  plaintiffis directed to file the list of properties of this value andnecessary  requisites  for issue of the attachment  with  inseven-days of this order."From  this order the State preferred an appeal to  the	HighCourt.	The appeal was, however, dismissed by the High Courtby  judgment rendered on June 30, 1954, and by reason  of  acertificate  granted  by  the  learned	Judges	under	Art.'133(1)(c) the State has preferred this appeal.The  arguments addressed to us by Mr. Lal Narayan Sinha	 whoappeared  for  the appellant State,  when  closely  analysedresolved themselves into five points:			    733(1)  That the order of the Subordinate Judge dated March 19,1951, did not on its' plain language, interdict the issue ofa notification under s. 3(1) of the Act, but merely directedthe  State, not to disturb the possession of the  plaintiff.It   was  common  ground  that	beyond	the  issue  of	 thenotification,  neither	the  State,  nor  its  officers	  orservants  had done anything by way of interfering  with	 thepossession of the plaintiff.(2)  That  at the worst the order of the Subordinate  Judge,having	regard	to  the language  employed,  was  reasonablycapable of two interpretations-(a) that the direction to theState included a prohibition against issuing a	notificationunder  s.  3(1),  and (b) that	there  was  no	interdictionagainst	 notifications	under  s.  3(1)	 but  only   againstnotifications	which	directly  involved   or	  authorisedinterference with the plaintiff's possession of her  Estate.Proceedings for, contempt even for the enforcement of ordersof Civil Courts being quasi-punitive in their nature, it wasurged  that a party who bona fide conducted himself  on	 thebasis  of one of two possible interpretations could  not  beheld guilty of contempt.(3)  That the rule that the Crown or the State could not  beproceeded  against for a tort or wrong-doing applied to	 thepresent	 case, since disobedience of an order of  injunctionis  virtually a wrong for which 0. 39, r. 2(3) provides	 thepunishment or compensation.(4)  That  a  State is not bound by a Statute unless  it  isnamed therein expressly or by necessary implication, and  asthere  is no mention of a State in specific terms in 0.	 39,r.  2(3), a State cannot, as such, be proceeded against	 fordisobedience of an order of Court.(5)  Even if a State could be proceeded against for  willfuldisobedience   of   an	order,	the   publication   of	 thenotification  under s. 3(1) which was the contempt  alleged,was  not  proved with certainty, to be an act of  the  StateGovernment,  and that in the absence of a definite proof  ofthis fact, the liability of the State could not arise ;	 andthat if the notification dated May 19, 1952, constituted theact of disobedience,734then  only  the Additional Secretary, Mr. K.  K.  Mitra	 whoauthenticated  the  notification could, if at all,  be	madeliable.It  would be convenient to deal with these 'matters in	thatorder.The first point urged was that the order of the	 SubordinateJudge dated March 19, 1951, did not in terms or in substanceprohibit  the  State from issuing a  notification  under  s.3(1).Section 3(1) of the Act runs:"   The	 State	Government  may,  from	time  to  time,	  bynotification,  declare	that  the estates or  tenures  of  aproprietor or tenure-holder, specified in the  notification,have passed to and become vested in the State."It  was	 urged	that  the Subordinate  Judge  by  his  orderdirected  the  State  " not to issue  any  notification	 fortaking	possession "-and as the notification under  s.	3(1)does  not  proprio  vigore  affect  or	interfere  with	 thepossession of the proprietor or tenure-holder, the issue  ofsuch  a	 notification was not within the  prohibition.	 Thesame  argument	was  addressed to the  High  Court  and	 wasrepelled by the learned Judges and in our opinion correctly.In the first place, the only "notification" contemplated  bythe provisions of the Act immediately relevant to the  suit,was  a notification under s. 3(1).  Such a notification	 hasthe statutory effect of divesting the owner of the  notifiedestate	of  his or her title to the property and  of  trans-ferring	 it  to and vesting it in the State.  The  State  isenabled to take possession of the estate and the  propertiescomprised  in  it  by  acting under s.	4,  but	 the  latterprovision  does	 not  contemplate  any	notification,	onlyexecutive  acts	 by authorized officers of  the	 State.	  Ofcourse,	 if  action  had  been taken under  s.	4,  and	 thepossession of the respondent had been interfered with, therewould have been a further breach of the order which directedthe  State. not to interfere with or disturb in any  manner,the plaintiff's possession.  What we desire to point out  isthat  the order of the Court really consisted of two  parts-the  earlier  directed against the  defendant  publishing  anotification which in the context of the relevant statutory			    735provisions could only mean a notification under s. 3(1)	 andthat   which   followed,  against   interfering	  with	 theplaintiff's possession and the fact that-the second part  ofthe order was not contravened is no ground for holding	thatthere  had  been no breach of the first part.  In  the	nextplace, the matter is put beyond the pale of controversy,  ifthe  order were read, as it has to be read,  in	 conjunctionwith  the  plaint  and	the  application  for  a   temporaryinjunction.  Mr. Sinha did not seriously contend that if theorder  of  the	Court were understood in the  light  of	 theallegations   and  prayers  in	these  two  documents,	 thereference  to  the " notification " in it was  only  to	 oneunder s. 3(1) of the Act, and that the injunction  thereforewas  meant  to cover and covered such a	 notification.	 We,therefore, hold that this objection must fail.(2)  The  second  contention  urged was that even  if  on  aproper	construction of the order, read in the light of	 therelevant  pleadings,  the State Government was	directed  toabstain from publishing a notification under s. 3(1) of	 theAct,  still, if the order was ambiguious and  equivocal	 andreasonably capable of two interpretations, a party who actedon  the	 basis of one of such interpretations could  not  beheld  to  have wilfully disobeyed the..	 order.	  Stated  inthese  terms, the contention appears  unexceptionable.	 Forits  being  accepted in any particular	case,  however,	 twoconditions  have  to be satisfied: (1) that  the  order	 wasambiguous  and	was  reasonably capable	 of  more  than	 oneinterpretation,	 (2) that the party being proceeded  againstin  fact did not intend to disobey the order, but  conductedhimself in accordance with his interpretation of the  order.We are clearly of the view that the case before us does	 notsatisfy	 either	 condition.   In  dealing  with	 the   firstcontention urged by learned Counsel, we have pointed out thetrue  construction of the order-and in our opinion  that  isthe  only construction which it could reasonably bear.	 Butthis  apart,  even  if the order was  equivocal	 as  learnedCounsel puts it, still, it is of no avail to the  appellant,unless the State Government understood it94736in  the sense, that the order was confined to acts by  whichthe possession of the plaintiff was directly interfered withand  the notification was issued on that  understanding	 andbelief.	 There are two pieces of conduct on the part of	 theState  Government  which are wholly  inconsistent  with	 thetheory	that  the order was understood by  them	 as  learnedCounsel	  suggested.	The  first  is	 that	before	 thenotification  under s. 3(1) was issued they applied  to	 theCourt  to vacate the order of injunction so that they  mightissue  notification, and it was during the pendency of	thisapplication that the notification was issued-without waitingfor  the orders of the Court on their petition.	 The  secondis  even  more significant.  When notice was issued  to	 thedefendant  to show cause why it should not be committed	 forcontempt, one would naturally expect, if the point urged hasany  validity,	the  defence  to be based  on  a  denial  ofdisobedience,  by reference to the sense in which the  orderwas  understood.   We have already  extracted  the  relevantparagraph  of the counter-affidavit and in this there is  notrace  of the plea now put forward.  Even in the  memorandumof appeal to the High Court against the order of the learnedSubordinate  Judge  under  0.  39,  r.	2(3)  there  is	  noindication  of the contention now urged and though  a  faintsuggestion  of	inadvertence  on the part  of  some  officerappears	 to  have  been	 put forward  during  the  stage  ofargument  before the High Court, the point in this form	 wasnot  urged before the learned Judges of the High  Court,  asseen  from the judgment.  The question whether a  party	 hasunderstood an order in a particular manner and has conductedhimself in accordance with such a construction is  primarilyone of-fact, and where the materials before the Court do notsupport such a state of affairs, the Court cannot  attributean  innocent intention based on presumptions, for  the	onlyreason, that ingenuity of Counsel can discover	equivocationin the order which is the subject of enforcement.  The argu-ment  being  in	 effect	 that a	 party	who  had  bona	fidemisconstrued the order and acted on that basis, could not beheld to have wailfully and deliberately disobeyed			    737the order, such a plea could obviously be urged only when itis  proved that a party was in fact under a  misapprehensionas to the scope of the order, but this was never the plea ofthe  Government right up to the stage of the hearing  beforethe High Court.	 Besides, if the case of the State was, thatacting bona fide it had committed an error in construing theorder,	one  would expect an expression of  regret  for	 theunintentional  wrong,  but even a, trace  of  contrition  issingular  lacking at any stage of the proceedings.   We	 areclearly	 of the opinion that there is no factual  basis	 forsustaining the second ground urged by learned Counsel.(3)  Turning  to  the  next point  urged,  learned  'Counselamplified  it  in these terms.	No doubt, having  regard  toArt.  300 of the Constitution-which  practically  reproducesthe  earlier statutory provisions in that behalf going	backto  1858, States are not immune from liability to  be  sued.Learned	 Counsel added that he would not dispute that  TitleSuit  40  of 1950 was properly laid and that the  Court	 hadjurisdiction  to entertain it, as also jurisdiction to	passthe  order  of temporary injunction  against  the  defendantState  pending.	 the  decision of  the	suit.	But  learnedCounsel urged that it did not automatically follow that	 theState  was amenable to proceedings, for disobedience of	 theinjunction.  Proceedings for contempt even for enforcing  anorder  of  a  Civil  Court,  he	 submitted,  were  really  apunishment for wrong doing and in essence, therefore, quasi-criminal.  For this reason he contended that Art. 300  whichpermitted suits to be filed against the Union and the Statescould not be held to authorise proceedings of such a  quasi-criminal nature, and that as a result the Common Law  rules,that the King could do no wrong and that the Crown could notbe  sued  for a tort, were attracted.	In  this  connectionlearned	 Counsel invited our attention to the  decisions  inDistrict  Board	 of Bhagalpur v. Province  of  Bihar(1)	 andTarafatullah  v.  S. N. Maitra (2).  In the first  of  thesecases, a large number of English and Indian decisions on theliability of the Crown in(1) A.I.R. 1954 Pat. 529.(2) A.I.R. 1952 Cal. 919, 927.738tort were discussed.  The question for consideration  beforethe  learned  Judges was whether the suit before  the  Courtagainst the Government could be legally maintainable and  asto  the scope and limits of the rule,, respondent  superior"in such actions against the State-but both these matters arefar removed from the pale of the controversy before us.In  regard to the other ruling of the learned Judges of	 theCalcutta  High Court, learned Counsel relied not so much  onthe  decision  itself but on the following  observations  ofMukerji, J. (1):" A State as such cannot be said to commit contempt.  In thecase  of  the  State  the  allegation  must  be	 against   aparticular  officer or officers of the State.  Where  as  inthis  case  an order was obtained against the  State.  in  acivil proceeding restraining certain acts of the State,	 andit  is	alleged by the complainant or  the  petitioner	thatthere  has  been  a contempt by breach of  that	 order,	 thepetitioner  for contempt will have to take out the Rule	 forcontempt against the particular officer or officers who	 hasor  have  disobeyed  that order.  In  such  a  petition	 forcontempt  the Rule must be asked against an  individual	 andnot  against the State.	 Article 300 of the Constitution  ofIndia  provides for proceedings by way of suit	against	 theState or the Union of India and cannot be extended to  applyto contempt proceedings ".In  order  however  to appreciate  the	observations  it  isnecessary  to consider briefly the facts of the	 case.	 Thedecision  was  concerned with an application to	 commit	 therespondents for contempt for disobedience to an order of  adinterim	 injunction  granted by a single Judge of  the	HighCourt  on a petition for the issue of a writ  of  Certiorariunder Art. 226 of the Constitution.  No doubt, the order  oftemporary injunction was issued against the Government,	 butthe  disobedience  complained  of was not  any	act  of	 theGovernment  as	such, but of certain  officers.	  Not  with.standing  this,	 the Secretary to Government  who  had	beenformally  impleaded  as	 representing  the  Government,	 wassought to be proceeded against personally(1)  A.I.R. 1952 Cal. 919. 927.			    739for  contempt and the prayer being that he  as	representingthe   Government   should  be  committed  to   prison.	  AsChakravartti,  C.  J.,	pertinently  pointed  out,  a	moreridiculous prayer could not be imagined.  The learned Judgesfurther	 found that as a fact no disobedience of  the  orderhad  been  proved.   The  question  therefore  whether	 theGovernment  could  be  liable to be  proceeded	against	 forcontempt  for  disobedience of an order which  a  Court	 hasjurisdiction to pass and which bound the Government, the actconstituting  the  contempt being unmistakably	an  act	 forwhich  Government could not as such disclaim  responsibilitydid not arise for consideration in that case.Having regard to the findings of fact reached by the  Court,the  observations  regarding the scope of the  liability  ofGovernment  were wholly orbiter.  In regard to	the  passagerelied on we need only say that observations about the ambitof Art. 300 of the Constitution are too widely expressed anddo  not	 take  into account, the  provisions  of  the  CivilProcedure  Code	 0.  21, r. 32 & 0. 21,	 r.  39(2)(3)  whichdirectly  bear	on  the matter and which  we  shall  discusspresently.   Further, they cannot also apply to those  caseswhere the disobedience takes the form of a formal Governmentorder  as  in this case.  In this connection we	 prefer	 theapproach to the question indicated by the learned C. J., whosaid:" I do not say that in fit cases a writ for contempt may notbe  asked  for against a corporation itself,  or  against  aGovernment.  In what form, in such a case, any penal  order,if considered necessary, is to be passed and how it is to beenforced  are  different  matters  which  do  not  call	 fordecision in this case.	In England, there is a specific ruleproviding for sequestration of the corporate property of theparty  concerned, where such party is a corporation.   I  amnot  aware  of any similar rule obtaining in  this  country,but,  I do not consider it impossible that in a fit  case  afine  may  be  imposed and it may  be  realised	 by  methodsanalogous to sequestration which would be a distress warrantdirected  against  the properties of the Government  or	 theCorporation740Learned Counsel laid considerable stress on the	 proceedingsunder 0. 39, r. 2(3) being quasi-criminal, in an attempt  toestablish that the State could not be proceeded against	 forsuch a criminal wrong.	Though undoubtedly proceedings under0.  39,	 r.  2(3), Civil Procedure  Code,  have	 a  punitiveaspect-as  is evident from the condemner being liable to  beordered	 to  be	 detained  in  civil  prison,  they  are  insubstance  designed  to	 effect the  enforcement  of  or  toexecute	 the  order.  This is clearly brought out  by  theiridentity   with	 the  procedure	 prescribed  by	 the   CivilProcedure Code for the execution of a decree for a permanentinjunction.   Order 21, r. 32 sets out the method  by  whichsuch  decrees could be executed-and cl. (1)  enacts-"  wherethe  party  against  whom  a  decree...............  for  aninjunction  has	 been  passed, has had	an  opportunity	 forobeying the decree and has willfully failed to obey it,	 thedecree	  may	 be   enforced,	  in   the   case    of	   adecree .................. for an injunction by his detentionin the civil prison, or by the attachment of his property orby  both Clauses 2 and 3 of this rule practically  reproducethe  terms of cls. 4 and 3 respectively of 0. 39, r. 2,	 andthe  provisions leave no room for doubt that 0. 39, r.	2(3)is  in	essence	 only  the  mode  for  the  enforcement	  oreffectuation  of  an  order of	injunction.   While  on	 theprovisions  of	0.  21, r. 32, it may be  pointed  out	thatlearned Counsel for the State does not contend that a  StateGovernment against whom a decree for a permanent  injunctionhas been passed is not liable to be proceeded against  underthis  provision of the Code in the event of the	 decree	 notbeing  obeyed  by them.	 No doubt the State  Government	 notbeing  a natural person could not be ordered to be  detainedin  civil prison, On the analogy of Corporations; for  whichspecial provision is made in 0. 39, r. 5, but beyond  that,,both  when a decree for a permanent injunction	is  executedand  when an order of temporary injunction is  enforced	 theliability  of the State Government to be  proceeded  againstappears to us clear.  The third point urged lacks  substanceand is rejected.Some point was sought to be made of the fact that			    741as  the State was a juristic entity merely, the wrong  whichconstituted the disobedience, must have been the act of someservant	 or agent of the Government and that except  on	 theprinciple  of  vicarious liability the State  could  not  beliable.	  This	argument  which	 is  partly  based  on	 theobservations  of  Mukherji,  J.,  in  the  passage   alreadyextracted  would  if accepted deny that there could  be	 anyaction	by  the	 State at all, is really part  of  the	lastsubmission  and could conveniently be dealt with along	withit.   Besides, it need only be mentioned that the fact	thatofficers  and servants of Government could be dealt with  asindividuals bound by the orders passed against the defendantGovernment,  nor  the  fact that they would  be	 liable	 in'contempt  is  no ground at all for holding  that  the  StateGovernment itself would not be liable for their own act.(4)  The  invocation  of the rule of construction  that	 theCrown was not bound by a statute unless by express words  orby  necessary  implication  the intention  so  to  bind	 wasmanifested,  was  the next submission  of  learned  Counsel,reliance  being	 placed	 for the  position,  on	 the  recentdecision   of  this  Court  in	Director  of   Rationing   &Distribution v. Corporation of Calcutta (1).We shall proceed to consider the soundness of the contentionthat  on a proper construction of the Civil  Procedure	Codethe  State of Bihar is not within 0. 39, r.  2(3).   Article300  of	 the Constitution permits suits,  which	 before	 theConstitution  could have been filed against the Central	 andProvincial Governments respectively, to be filed against theUnion and the State.  As already stated, there is no disputethat' having regard to the cause of action alleged in	the-plaint, Title Suit 40 of 1950 could be properly laid againstthe  State and the plaintiff could, if she was able to	makegood  her  allegations of fact and law, be  entitled  to  begranted	 the  reliefs prayed for in her suit  including	 therelief for a permanent injunction restraining the State fromissuing	 a  notification under a. 3(1) of the Act  and	frominterfering with her possession of(1)  [1961] S.C.R. 158.742the  estate  of	 Handwa.   It  is  also	 admitted  that	 theSubordinate  Judge  had jurisdiction to pass  the  order  oftemporary  injunction against the State Government and	thatthe order bound them.  What is contended however is that themethod	of  enforcing that order provided for in 0.  39,  r.2(3)  of  the  Code  is	 not  available	 against  the  StateGovernment,  because  the State Government is not  named  inthat  sub-rule expressly or even by  necessary	implication.An examination however of the provisions of the Code and theScheme	underlying  it in relation  to	proceedings  againstGovernment  establishes	 that  this  submission	 is   whollyuntenable.The  Code of Civil Procedure does not determine whether	 anyparticular suit or class of suits could be filed against theGovernment  or not, these being matters of substantive	law.But  when  in  law a suit could be  properly  filed  againstGovernment-be it the Union or the State, it makes a completeprovision for the procedure applicable to such suits and thetype of orders which Courts could pass in such suits and howthese  orders  could  be  enforced.  Part  IV  of  the	Codecomprising  ss. 79 to 82, sets out the details of  the	pro-cedure to be followed in suits against Government.   Section79  prescribes	what,  the  cause  title  of  suits  againstGovernment should be, the expression 'Government' being usedto   designate	both  the  Union  as  well  as	 the   StateGovernments.  Section 80 provides-making a special provisionnot  applicable to suits against private parties, for a	 twomonths' notice prior to suit.  If Government were a party toa  suit,  it necessarily follows that  where  the  plaintiffsucceeds there might be a decree against the  Government-theUnion or the State-and s. 82 lays down special rules for theexecution of such decrees.  In the 1st Schedule to the Code,there  is  a separate chapter-Chapter  XXVII,  dealing	withsuits  against Government, in which provision  is  speciallymade  for adequate time being granted to it  for  conductingthe various stages of the proceedings before Courts.The foregoing, in our opinion, makes it clear that the Stateis bound by the Code of Civil Procedure, the			    743scheme	of  the	 Code  being that  subject  to	any  specialprovision  made in that regard, as respects Governments,  itoccupies  the  same  position  as  any	other  party  to   aproceeding before the Court.We are further satisfied that even apart from the Scheme  ofthe Code, the State, as a party defendant is plainly  withinthe terms of 0. 39, r. 2(3) of the Code.There is here no controversy that the Subordinate Judge	 hadjurisdiction to pass the interim order of injunction againstthe State on the terms of 0. 39, r. 2(1) which reads:-"In  any suit for restraining the defendant from  committinginjury of any kind, whether compensation is claimed in it ornot,  the plaintiff may at any time after the filing of	 thesuitapply  to  the  Court for  a  temporary  injunction	 torestrain the defendant from committing the injury complainedof......................."The reference to the " defendant " in the sub-rule precludesany  argument against the State being exempt from  or  beingoutside	 the statute.  The entire argument on this  part  ofthe  case was based on the difference between  the  languageemployed in cl. (1) extracted above and cl. (3) of the	rulemaking	provision  for the manner in which  disobedience  toorders passed under cl. (1) could be dealt with. Clause (3) runs:"In  case of disobedience, or of breach of any	such  terms,the  Court granting an injunction may order the property  ofthe  person  guilty  of such disobedience or  breach  to  beattached,  and may also order such person to be detained  inthe civil prison for a term not exceeding six months, unlessin the meantime the Court directs his release."Learned Counsel urged that cl. (3) discarded the use of	 theexpression  "  defendant " employed in cl. (1)	which  wouldhave  included the " State" in cases where the State  was  aparty  defendant, and had designated the party against	whomthe injunction order could be enforced as "the person guiltyof   the  disobedience	"  and	with  a	 further   provisionempowering the95744Court  to  order  the detention of such person	"  in  Civilprison.	  The word " person it was urged was at the  best  aneutral	 expression,  which  in the  absence  of  compellingindication,  was  not  apt  to	include	 "  a  State  "	 andparticularly  so  in the light of the rule  of	Constructionapproved  by  this  Court in The Director  of  Rationing  v.Corporation of Calcutta (1).  It was further pressed upon usthat the construction suggested would not render  injunctionorders	passed on the State when it was a  defendant  brutumfulmen,	 because, the State as a juristic person  could	 actonly  through  human agency and there would always  be	someofficer-a natural " person guilty of disobedience " in everycase where orders passed against a State were disobeyed.  Weare  clearly of the opinion that the entire argument  shouldbe rejected.We  feel wholly unable to accept the construction  suggestedof  the expression " person guilty of disobedience " in	 theclause.	  The  reason for the variation in  the	 phraseologyemployed  in cls. (1) and (3) of 0. 39, r. 2 is not  far  toseek.  Under the law when an order of injunction is  passed,that order is binding on and enforceable not merely  againstthe  persons eo nomine impleaded as a party to the suit	 andagainst	 whom the order is passed but against "	 the  agentsand  servants, etc." of such a party.  If such were not	 thelaw,  orders  of injunction would be rendered  nugatory,  bytheir  being  contravened  by the  agents  and	servants  ofparties.   For that reason, the law provides that  in  orderthat  a plaintiff might seek to enforce an order  against  aservant or an agent of the defendant, these latter need	 notbe  added  as defendants to the suit and an  order  obtainedspecifically  against  the man order against  the  defendantsufficing  for	this purpose.  If such agents  or  servants,etc., are proved to have formal notice of the order and theydisobey	 the  injunction, they are liable  to  be  proceededagainst	 for contempt, without any need for a further  orderagainst	 them under 0. 39, r. 2(1).  This legal position  isbrought	 out by the terms of an injunction order set out  inForm 8 of Appendix F to the Code which(1)  [1961] 1 S.C.R. 158.745reads:"The Court doth order that an injunction be awarded torestrain  the  defendant  C. D., his  servants,	 agents	 andworkmen, from..................... It is not suggested	thatthe  form which the order of the Subordinate Judge  took  inthis case, departed from this model.If such is the scope of an order for injunction, it would beapparent  that	the expression " person " has in 0.  39,  r.2(3)   been  employed  merely  compendiously  to   designateeveryone in the group " Defendant, his agents, servants	 andworkmen	 " and not for excluding any defendant against	whomthe order of injunction has primarily been passed.  It wouldtherefore  follow  that	 in cases where	 the  State  is	 thedefendant  against  whom  an order of  injunction  has	beenissued,	 it  is "  expressly " named in the clause  and	 noteven by necessary implication, and the rule of	constructioninvoked does not in any manner avail the appellant.The  matter  may also be approached from  a  broader  angle.Where a Court is empowered by statute to issue an injunctionagainst	 any defendant, even if the defendant be the  State-the  provision	would be frustrated and the  power  renderedineffective  and unmeaning if the machinery for	 enforcementspecially  enacted did not extend to every one against	whomthe order of injunction is directed.  Apart, therefore, froma critical examination of the phraseology of 0. 39, r. 2(3),the  obligation	 on  the  part of  the	State  to  obey	 theinjunction  and be proceeded against for disobedience if  itshould	take  place  would appear  to  follow  by  necessaryimplication.   As  Maxwell  (1)	 puts  it  "  The  Crown  issufficiently named in a statute when an intention to includeit is manifest ".The only point remaining for consideration is as to  whetherthe publication of the notification under s. 3(1) which	 wastreated by the Subordinate Judge to be the disobedience, hadbeen  established  to  be " the act "  of  the	State.	 Theentirety of the argument on this part of the case was restedon the terms of Art. 154(1) of the Constitution reading:(1) Maxwell on Interpretation of Statutes, 10th Edition,  P.140.  Cf. Moore V. SMith, (1859) 28 L.J.M.C. 126.746"  The executive power of the State shall be vested  in	 theGovernor  and shall be exercised by him either	directly  orthrough officers subordinate to him in accordance with	thisConstitution".It was urged that the publication of the notification was  "an executive act "-an exercise of the executive power of theState-and  since such a power could be exercised  either  bythe  Governor  directly or through officers  subordinate  tohim, it could not be predicated, from the mere fact that thenotification  was  purported to be made in the name  of	 theGovernor,  in Conformity with the provisions of Art.  166(1)that  it  was  the  Governor who  was  responsible  for	 thenotification  and not some officer subordinate to  him.	  Onthis  reasoning the further contention was, that unless	 therespondent  proved that it was the Governor himself who	 hadauthorised  the issue of the notification, the State or	 theState	Government  could  not	be  fixed   with   liabilitytherefore,  so as to be held guilty of disobedience  of	 theorder of injunction.The submission of learned Counsel is correct to this  extentthat  the  process  of	making	an  order  precedes  and  isdifferent  from	 the expression of it, and that	 while	Art.166(1)	merely	prescribes how orders are to  be  made,	 theauthentication	referred  to in Art.  166(2)  indicates	 themanner in which a previously made order should be  embodied.As observed by the Privy Council in King Emperor v.  SibnathBanerji (1)with reference to the term " executive power " inCh.  2	of  Part 3 of the Government  of  India	 Act,  1935,corresponding to Part VI, Ch. 11 of the Constitution) "	 theterm  'executive' is used in the broader sense as  includingboth  a	 decision as to action and the carrying out  of	 thedecision ".Section	 3(1)  of  the	Act confers  the  power	 of  issuingnotifications under it, not on any officer but on the  StateGovernment  as such though the exercise of that power  wouldbe governed by the rules of business framed by the  Governorunder  Art. 166(3) of the Constitution.	 But this  does	 notafford	any  assistance	 to the	 appellant.   The  order  ofGovernment in the(1) (1945) L. R. 72 I. A. 241747present	 case is expressed to be made " in the name  of	 theGovernor  "  and  is authenticated  as	prescribed  by	Art.166(2),	 and  consequently " the validity of  the  order  orinstrument  cannot be called in question on the ground	thatit  is	not an order or instrument made or executed  by	 theGovernor ".Authorities  have, no doubt, laid down that the validity  ofthe order may be questioned on grounds other than those	 setout in the Article, but we do not have here a case where theorder  of the Government is impugned on the ground  that  itwas not passed by the proper authority.	 Its validity as  anorder of Government is not in controversy at all.The only point canvassed is whether it was an order made  bythe  Governor or by someone duly authorised by him  in	thatbehalf within Art. 154(1).  Even assuming that the order didnot  originate from the Governor personally, it	 avails	 theState  nothing because the Governor remains responsible	 forthe  action  of	 his subordinates taken	 in  his  name.	  InEmperor	 v. Sibnath Banerji (1), already referred  to,	LordThankerton  pointing out the distinction between  delegationby  virtue of statutory power therefore and the case of	 theexercise of the Governor's power by authorized	subordinatesunder the terms of a. 49(1) of the Government of India	Act,1935 (corresponding to Art. 154(1) ), said:"  Sub-a.  5  of s. 2 (of the Defence of  India	 Act,  1939)provides  a means of delegation in the strict sense  of	 theword, namely, a transfer of the power or duty to the officeror   authority	 defined  in  the  sub.	 section,   with   acorresponding	divestiture   of   the	 Governor   of	 anyresponsibility in the matter, whereas under s. 49(1) of	 theAct of 1935, the Governor remains responsible for the actionof his subordinates taken in his name."This  last point also is therefore without force and has  tobe rejected.Before	concluding, we consider it proper to draw  attentionto one aspect of the case.  It is of the essence of the ruleof law that every authority within the State(1)  (1945) L.R. 72 I.A. 241.748'including  the Executive Government should consider  itselfbound by and obey the Law.  It is fundamental to the  systemof  polity that India has adopted and which is	embodied  inthe Constitution that the Courts of the land are vested withthe powers of interpreting the law and of applying it to thefacts of the cases which are properly brought before  them..If   any party to the proceedings considers that  any  Courthas committed any error, in the understanding of the law  orin  its	 application, resort must be had to such  review  orappeals	 as the law provides.  When once an order  has	beenpassed	which the Court has jurisdiction to pass, it is	 theduty of all persons bound by it to obey the order so long asit  stands, and it would tend to the subversion of,  orderlyadministration	and  civil  Government,	 if  parties   coulddisobey	 orders with impunity.	If such is the	position  asregard	private	 parties, the duty to obey is all  the	moreimperative   in	 the  case  of	 Governmental	authorities,otherwise  there would be a conflict between one  branch  ofthe State polity, viz., the executive and another branch-theJudicial.   If	disobedience could go  unchecked,  it  wouldresult	in orders of Courts ceasing to have any meaning	 andjudicial  power itself becoming a mockery.  When  the  StateGovernment  obeys  a law, or gives effect to an order  of  aCourt  passed  against it, it is not  doing  anything  whichdetracts  from its dignity, but rather, invests the law	 andthe  Courts  with  the dignity which are  their	 due,  whichenhances the prestige of the executive Government itself, ina democratic set-up.  We consider that on the facts of	thiscase there was no justification, legal or otherwise for	 theState  Government to have rushed the notification  under  s.3(1), when its application to modify or vacate the order forinterim injunction was pending before the Subordinate Court.But  more than that, when possibly by failure to  appreciatetheir  error, the notification had been published,  and	 thepropriety  and legality of its action was brought up  beforethe  Court  by	an application under 0.	 39,  r.  2(3),	 theattitude  taken up by the State Government and persisted  inupto hearing before us, has been one which we can			    740hardly commend.	 If the Government had deliberately intendedto  disobey the order of the Court, because for	 any  reasonthey  considered  it  wrong,  their  conduct  deserves	 theseverest condemnation.	If on the other hand it was merely acase  of inadvertence and arose out of error, nothing  wouldhave  been lost and there was everything to be gained,	evenin the matter of the prestige of the Government, by a  frankavowal	of the error committed by them and an expression  ofregret for the lapse, and it is lamentable that even at	 thestage  of the hearing before us, there was no trace  of	 anysuch attitude.The appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.		     Appeal dismissed.96750