PETITIONER:SHREE VINOD KUMAR & OTHERS.	Vs.RESPONDENT:STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH(and connected petition)DATE OF JUDGMENT:10/10/1958BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR  223		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 160 CITATOR INFO : E	    1968 SC 360	 (1) RF	    1975 SC2299	 (606)ACT:       Estates	Abolition-Validity  of	enactment-Himachal  Pradesh       Abolition  of Big Landed Estates and Land Reforms Act,  1953       (Himachal 15 of 1954).HEADNOTE:The  petitioners, who were land-owners of Himachal  Pradesh,challenged  the	 constitutional	 validity  of  the  HimachalPradesh	 Abolition  of Big Landed Estates and  Land  ReformsAct, 1953 (Himachal 15 of 1954), said to have been passed bythe  Legislative Assembly of the State of  Himachal  Pradeshfunctioning  under  the Himachal Pradesh and  Bilaspur	(NewState) Act (32 Of 1954).  The impugned Act was introduced asa  bill in the first session of the Legislative Assembly  ofthe  Old  Himachal Pradesh elected under the  Government  ofPart  C States Act (49 Of 1951).  Before the bill  could  bepassed,	 the Himachal Pradesh and Bilaspur (New	 State)	 Act(32 Of 1954) came into force on July 1, 1954, abolishing theold  Act  and uniting the two States into  one.	  While	 theLegislative  Assembly  for  the	 New State  was	 yet  to  beconstituted,  on  July	7, 1954,  the  Governor	 issued	 thefollowing   notification,-"  The  Lieutenant  Governor,	  inexercise  of.  the  powers conferred by	 Section  9  of	 theGovernment of Part C States Act, 1951 (49 Of 1951), has beenpleased	 to  direct that the Second Session,  1954,  Of	 theHimachal  Pradesh  Legislative Assembly will  commence	fromMonday,	 the 16th August, 1954, at 9-30 a.m. in the  CouncilChamber, Simla-4."It  was	 at this session that the impugned Act	was  passed.Its provisions were said to be drastic and to infringe Arts.14,  19	 and 31 Of the Constitution.  It  was  contended  onbehalf	of the petitioners that apart from  violating  thoseArticles,  the	impugned  Act was void as it  had  not	beenpassed by a duly constituted legislature.  It was sought  tobe contended on behalf of the respondent that under the	 newAct  the  members of the Old Legislative  Assembly  must  bedeemed	to constitute the legislature for the New State	 andit was as such called by the Governor.Held, that the contention raised by the respondent was with-out  substance and must be negatived.  It was apparent	thatthe  so called Assembly which the Governor had convened	 andwhich  purported  to  pass  the impugned  Act  was  not	 theLegislative Assembly of the New State constituted under	 theHimachal  Pradesh and Bilaspur (New State) Act (32 Of  1954)and  as such the Act could not be regarded as a valid  pieceof legislation.161JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL  JURISDICTION:	 Petitions Nos. 120-122,  164,	199,213,  255, 260, 363, 378, 402 & 407 of 1955, 6, 7, 43,	120,126, 142, 153, 154, 198, 216 & 223 of 1956, 32, 49, 60,	 61,141 & 143 of 1957, 3, 7 & 104 of 1958.Petitions  under  Article  32 of the  Constitution  for	 theenforcement of fundamental-rights.Achhru	Ram and Ganpat Rai, for the petitioners in  PetitionNo. 120/55.D.R.  Prem  and	 Ganpat	 Rai,  for  the	 petitioners   inPetitions Nos. 120, 121, 122, 164, 199, 213, 255, 260,	363,402  & 407 of 1955, 6, 7, 43, 125, 142, 154, 198, 216 &	 223of 1956, 32, 60 & 143 of 1957, 7 & 104 of 1958.D.R.  Prem  and	 S.  D. Sekhri,	 for  the  petitioner  inPetition No. 378 of 1955.D.R.  Prem  and	 P. C. Aggarwal, for  the  petitioner  inPetition No. 120/56.D.R. Prem and Raghu Nath, for the petitioner in	 PetitionNo. 49/57.D.R. Prem and K. L. Mehta, for the petitioner in PetitionNo. 153/56.Y.Kumar, for the petitioner in Petitions Nos. 61 & 141 of1957 & 3 of 1958.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor General of India, H.   J.Umrigar	 and T. M. Sen, for the respondent.   1958.   October  10.	  The  Judgment	 of  the  Court	  wasdelivered byDAS,  C. J.-By each of these 32 petitions under Art.  32  ofour  Constitution,  which  have	 been  heard  together,	 therespective petitioners challenge the constitutional validityof the Himachal Pradesh Abolition of Big Landed Estates	 andLand Reforms Act, 1953. (Himachal 15 of 1954) which is said,to  have  been passed by the,.Legislative  Assembly  of	 theState  of Himachal Pradesh created by the  Himachal  Pradeshand Bilaspur (New State) Act (32 of 1954).On November 23, 1954, the President of India gave his assentto the Bill which on being so assented to21162became the Himachal Pradesh Abolition of Big Landed  Estatesand   Land  Reforms  Act,  1953,  (Himachal  15	  of   1954)(hereinafter  called  the Abolition Act).   On	January	 26,1955,  this  Abolition	Act  was brought  into	force  by  anotification  issued  under  s. 1(3) thereof.	It  will  beconvenient  at this stage to refer to some of  the  relevantsections  of  the Abolition Act.  Section 11 confers  a	 newright  on the tenants to acquire the interests of the  land-owners.	 According to this section notwithstanding any	law,custom,	 or contract to the contrary a tenant other  than  asub-tenant  shall, on application made to  the	compensationofficer	 at any time after the commencement of the  Act,  beentitled to acquire, on payment of compensation, the  right,title  and  interest of the land-owner in the  land  of	 thetenancy	 held by him under the landowner subject to  certainterms  and conditions therein mentioned. Section 14  permitsthe acquisition by the tenant of the rights of the landownerin  a  portion	of  the lands  of  the	tenancy	 in  certainspecified circumstances on the surrender of the rest of	 thelands.	 Section 15 sanctions the acquisition by  the  StateGovernment  of the rights of the landowners by	notificationin  the	 Gazette declaring that, as from such  date  and  inrespect	  of   such  area  as  may  be	specified   in	 thenotification, the right, title and interest of the landownerin the lands of any tenancy held under him by a tenant shallstand  transferred to and vest in the State Government	freefrom   all  encumbrances  created  in  such  lands  by	 thelandowner.   Section  16  provides for the  payment  to	 thelandowner,  whose right, title and interest in lands,  wouldbe  acquired  by  the  State  Government  under	 s.  15,  ofcompensation  to  be  calculated,  as  far  as	practicable,according  to the provisions of ss. 12 and 13.	 Section  27provides  that	notwithstanding anything  contained  in	 theprovisions  of	the foregoing sections of  that	 Chapter,  alandowner  who holds land, the annual land revenue of  whichexceeds	 Rs. 125 per year, the right, title and interest  ofsuch  owner  in	 such  land shall be  deemed  to  have	beentransferred and vested in the State Government free from allencumbrances.  Sub-section (3) of this section lays down163that  the landowner whose right is acquired under subs.	 (1)by  the	 State	Government, shall  be  entitled	 to  receivecompensation  which shall be determined by the	CompensationOfficer	 having	 regard	 to ss. 17 and 18 of  this  Act,  inaccordance  with the provisions of Schedule II, but  in	 thecase  of such occupancy tenant who is liable to pay rent  interms  of land revenue or the multiple of land revenue,	 thecompensation  payable to his landowner shall be computed  inaccordance  with  Schedule I. The compensation	provided  inSchedule  II to the Abolition Act may in certain cases	workout  to	 no more than twice the land  revenue.	 Section  39fixes  the maximum rent at one fourth of the crop which,  itis apprehended, may not even cover the land revenue and	 thelocal  rates and cesses.  Section 80 provides for the  Statemanagement of lands in certain cases therein mentioned.	  Itis not necessary for our present purpose to refer to any  ofthe other provisions of the Abolition Act.On a cursory perusal of the foregoing sections one -may wellunderstand  the natural apprehension of the landowners	thatthe  provisions	 thereof  are  much  too  drastic  and	 areinconsistent with and take away or at any rate substantiallyabridge	 the right to their respective properties  conferredon  and guaranteed to them by Part III of  our	Constitutionand  thereby infringe the provisions of Arts. 14, 19 or	 31.It is, therefore, not surprising that the petitioners in allthese petitions, all of whom are landowners, have moved thisCourt	by  separate  petitions	 under	Art.  32   for	 theenforcement of their fundamental rights to their  respectiveproperties.   In  each of the several petitions	 which	havebeen  heard  together  two broad  points  have	been  taken,namely:-(i)That	 the Abolition Act is entirely void by	reason	ofits   not   having  been  passed  by  a	  duly	 constitutedlegislature; and(ii)That,  in any event, the provisions of Ch.	III and	 ofCh.  VIII are repugnant to the Constitution.Re (i) : In the First Schedule to the Constitution, as it   wasoriginally  passed, were set out under the heading   Part  CStates " the names of 10 States.  In that164list  of  Part	C States Bilaspur was shown as	item  3	 andHimachal  Pradesh  as  item 7. The  two	 States	 were  quiteseparate, having separate territories respectively describedat  the	 foot  of  the	said  list  in	that  Schedule	  as"territories which, by virtue of an order made under s. 290Aof  the	 Government  of India Act,  1935,  were	 immediatelybefore	 the   commencement  of	 this	Constitution   beingadministered as if they were a Chief Commissioner's Provinceof the same name."The   Government  of  Part  C  States  Act  (49	 of   1951),hereinafter  referred  to  as " the Part  C  States  Act  ",provides  for Legislative Assemblies, Councils of  Ministersand Councils of Advisers for Part C States.  By s.  2(1)(g),however, " State " is defined to mean any State specified inPart C of the First Schedule to the Constitution other	thanBilaspur.   Therefore,	the  Part C State  of  Bilaspur	 wasexcluded  from the operation of that Act and was dealt	withseparately.   The  Part C State of Himachal Pradesh,  as  itthen  was,  which  is hereinafter called  the  old  HimachalPradesh	 was,  however, governed by the Part C	States	Act.Section 3 of that Act provides that there shall be a  Legis-lative	Assembly for each State and that the  allocation  ofthe  seats  in the Legislative Assemblies of  the  6  Statestherein mentioned shall be as set out in the Third Schedule.According  to the Third Schedule, 'as it  stood	 originally,the  total  number of seats allocated to  the  old  HimachalPradesh	 was  36 including 8 seats  reserved  for  scheduledcastes.	 Section 4 authorises the President to determine  byorder  the  constituencies into which such  State  shall  bedivided,  the extent of such constituencies, the  number  ofseats  allotted to each such constituency and the number  ofseats reserved for the scheduled castes or scheduled tribes.Section	 5  prescribes	the  duration  of  the	 LegislativeAssemblies.   According	 to  that  section  the	 LegislativeAssembly,  unless sooner dissolved, is to continue for	fiveyears  from the date appointed for the first meeting and  nolonger.	 Section 8 makes the provisions of Part I and  PartsIII to XI of the Representation of the People Act, 1951	 andof  any	 rules	and orders  made  thereunder  applicable  inrelation to an election to the165Legislative  Assembly of a Part C State as they	 applied  inrelation  to  an election to the Legislative Assembly  of  aPart A State, subject to such modification as the  Presidentmay,  after  consultation with the Election  Commission,  byorder  direct.	Section 9 authorises the Chief	Commissionerto  summon  the Legislative Assembly from time to  time	 butprovides  that	six months shall not intervene	between	 itslast  sitting in one session and the date appointed for	 itsfirst  sitting	in  the	 next  session.	  Under	 s.  10	 theLegislative Assembly must, as soon as may be, choose two  ofits  members to be respectively the Speakers and the  DeputySpeaker	 thereof.  Section 14 enjoins that every  member  ofthe Legislative Assembly shall, before taking his seat, makeand  subscribe before the Chief Commissioner or some  personappointed  in  that  behalf by him an  oath  or	 affirmation'according to the form set out for the purpose in the FourthSchedule.  The form set out in the, Fourth Schedule ends  byaffirming  that such member " will faithfully discharge	 theduty  upon  which  I  am  about to  enter  ",  which  is  inconsonance with the provision of the section that oath is tobe taken " before taking his seat ". Section 16 provides for'vacation  of  seats  on the  happening	 of  certain  eventstherein mentioned.  Section 18 provides penalty for sitting,and  voting  before  making  and  subscribing  the  oath  oraffirmation  which  may	 extend to Rs.	500  for  each	day.According  to s. 35 the validity of any proceedings  in	 theLegislative Assembly of a State cannot be called in questionon the ground of any alleged irregularity of procedure.	  Itis  not necessary, for our present purpose, to refer to	 anyother section of the Part C States Act.In  exercise of the powers conferred on him by s. 4  of	 thePart  C	 States	 Act,  the President  duly  made  an  order,determining  the constituencies into which the old  HimachalPradesh	 would be divided and thereafter in  1952  electionswere duly held and 36 members were elected by the voters  ofthe  different constituencies so delimited.  Presumably	 theresults of the general elections to the Legislative Assemblyof the old Himachal Pradesh and the names of the members166elected for the various constituencies at the said  electionwere duly published under s. 74 of the Representation of thePeople	Act,  1951, in the official gazette  by	 the  properauthority  as soon after the date or the  last of the  datesfixed  for  the	 completion of the  said  elections  as	 waspossible.   There  is no dispute that, in  exercise  of	 thepowers	conferred on him by s. 9 of the Part C	States	Act,the Chief Commissioner summoned the Legislative Assembly  ofthe  old  Himachal Pradesh thus constituted to meet  at	 theappointed  time	 and place.  There is also no  dispute	thatevery member of that Legislative Assembly before taking	 hisseat made and subscribed the usual oath or affirmation unders.  14	of  the Part C States Act and  elected	one  of	 themembers	 Shri Jaiwant Ram as the Speaker and that the  firstsession of the Assembly so constituted commenced functioningas  the Legislative Assembly. of the old  Himachal  Pradesh.It was in this first session of this Legislative Assembly ofthe old Himachal Pradesh that in 1953 a Bill (Himachal 15 of1953) which became the Abolition Act was introduced.Pending the passage of that bill into an Act Parliament,  onMay 8, 1954, enacted an Act called the Himachal Pradesh	 andBilaspur  (New	State)	Act  (32  of  1954),  hereinafter  Ireferred  to as "the New State Act ". This Act received	 theassent	of  the President on May 28, 1954, and	was  broughtinto force by a notification, dated July 1, 1954, issued  bythe  Government	 of India in the official gazette  under  s.1(2) of the Act.  It will be convenient at this stage to setout  the  relevant  provisions	of this	 Act  on  which	 ourdecision  on this point largely depends.  Section 3  of	 theNew State Act says:"  3.  As from the commencement of this Act there  shall  beformed by uniting the existing States a new Part C State  tobe known as the State of Himachal Pradesh (hereafter in thisAct referred to as the " new State) ".Section 12 provides as follows:" 12. (1) There shall be a Legislative Assembly for the	 newState.167(2)The total number of seats in that Legislative  Assemblywhich shall be filled by direct election shall be 41."Section	 14,  which is very important, is expressed  in	 thefollowing terms:-" 14. (1) The new State shall, until other provision is madeby  law, consist of the following  Assembly  constituencies,namely :-(i)the	constituencies shown at the commencement  of  thisAct in the Delimitation of Assembly Constituencies (HimachalPradesh) Order, 1951 ; and(ii)the constituencies into which the part of the new Statecomprising the existing State of Bilaspur shall be divided.(2)The	President  shall,  as soon as  may  be	after  thecommencement  of  this Act, after  consulting  the  ElectionCommission  of	India, amend the  Delimitation	of  AssemblyConstituencies	(Himachal  Pradesh) Order, 1951,  so  as  toinclude	 therein the constituencies into which the  part  ofthe  new  State comprising the existing State  of  Bilaspur,shall  be divided and the said Order as so  amended,  shall,until superseded, be the Order relating to the	delimitationof constituencies of the new StateSections 15 and 16 may also be set out:"  15. (1) Every sitting member of the Legislative  Assemblyof  the existing State of -Himachal Pradesh  representing  aconstituency  of  the  said State shall,  on  and  from	 thecommencement of this Act, represent the constituency of	 thesame name in the new State and shall be deemed to have	beenelected to the Legislative Assembly of the new State by thatconstituency.(2)As  soon as may be after the commencement of this  Act,there  shall  be held elections to fill those seats  of	 theLegislative  Assembly  which  have  been  allotted  to	 theconstituencies	into  which  the  part	of  the	 new   Statecomprising   the  existing  State  of  Bilaspur	  shall	  bedivided....."16.   The period of five years referred to in section 5  ofthe  Government	 of Part C States Act, 1951 (XLIX  of  1951)shall, in the case of the Legislative168Assembly  of the new State, be deemed to have  commenced  onthe  date  on  which  the said period in  the  case  of	 theLegislative  Assembly  of  the existing	 State	of  HimachalPradesh actually commenced."Subsequently,  in exercise of powers conferred on him by  s.14(2)  the President made an order for the  delimitation  ofthe  constituencies for the area that previously formed	 theterritories  of the then Part C State of Bilaspur and  whichafter the commencement of the New State Act formed a part ofthe new Part C State of Himachal Pradesh created thereby andhereinafter called the new Himachal Pradesh.  Thereafter, onMay 13, 1955, five members were elected by the voters of theconstituencies	of that area so delimited so as to bring  upthe total number of members of the new Legislative  Assemblyof the new Himachal Pradesh to 41 as prescribed by s. 12  ofthe New State Act.In  the	 meantime,  on	July 7, 1954,  to  be  precise,	 thefollowing notification was issued in the official Gazette:-		       "Legislative Assembly		       NOTIFICATION  Simla-4, the 7th July, 1954.No.  L.A.-109-28/54-The Lieutenant Governor, in exercise  ofthe powers conferred by. section 9 of the Government of PartC  States  Act,	 1951 (XLIX of 1951), has  been	 pleased  todirect	that  the  Second Session,  1954,  of  the  HimachalPradesh Legislative Assembly will commerce from Monday,	 the16th August, 1954, at 9.30 a.m. in the Council Chamber,,Simla-4.			 By order,		of the Lieut.-Governor		   Mahesh Chandra		  (Judicial) Secretary"It  is worthy of note. that the notification, ex facie	con-vened the second session of the Legislative Assembly0.PO1169of  Himachal Pradesh.  It is not in dispute that,  prior  tothe  date  of  the  aforesaid  notification  summoning	 theLegislative  Assembly,	no notification was  issued  by	 theappropriate authority declaring the 36 persons who had	beenthe  members  of  the old Legislative Assembly	of  the	 oldHimachal Pradesh as members of the new Legislative  Assemblyof  the	 New Himachal Pradesh or formally  constituting	 andbringing into being the new Legislative Assembly of the	 newHimachal  Pradesh  created by and under the New	 State	Act.Nor  is	 it  in	 dispute that the  36  members	of  the	 oldLegislative Assembly of the old Himachal Pradesh did not, inpoint  of  fact,  make	or  subscribe  any  fresh  oath	  oraffirmation  as members of the new Legislative	Assembly  ofthe new Himachal Pradesh as required by s. 14 of the Part  CStates	Act, which is on the same lines as Arts. 99 and	 108of the Constitution or that they elected a Speaker under  s.10 of that Act.	 There can be no getting away from the	factthat the New State Act did create and bring into being a newState, also called the Himachal Pradesh.  It is not the caseof  the	 respondent  that some	additional  territory  whichformerly belonged to the Part C State of Bilaspur was  addedto  or	merged	into the territories  of  the  old  HimachalPradesh	 and  that  the old Himachal  Pradesh  continued  toexist.	 The  true legal position admittedly is	 that  as  aresult of the New State Act the old Himachal Pradesh as wellas the old State of Bilaspur both ceased to exist and  theresprang	to  life  a  new Himachal  Pradesh  having  for	 itsterritory  the aggregate of the separate territories of	 thetwo defunct States, namely, the old Himachal Pradesh and theold Bilaspur.  Under s. 12(1) of the New State Act, as unders. 3(1) of the Part C States Act, this new Himachal  Pradeshhas  to	 have a Legislative Assembly of its  own  the  totalnumber	of members whereof, under s. 12(2) of the New  StateAct shall consist of 41 to be filled by direct election. Thelearned	 Additional Solicitor General takes his stand on  s.15  of	the New State Act which has already been  quoted  infull.  According to sub-s. (1) of that section every sittingmember of the22170Legislative  Assembly  of  the existing	 State	of  HimachalPradesh	 (that	is to say, the old  Himachal  Pradesh)	thatexisted	 immediately  prior to the commencement of  the	 NewState  Act representing a constituency of ,,the	 said  Stateshall,	on and from the commencement of this Act,  representthe  constituency  of  the same name  in  the  new  HimachalPradesh	 and  shall be deemed to have been  elected  to	 theLegislative  Assembly  of the now Himachal Pradesh  by	thatconstituency.  Sub-section (2) of that section provides	 forthe  holding  of  elections, as soon as	 may  be  after	 thecommencement  of  that	Act,  to fill  those  seats  of	 theLegislative Assembly which would under s. 14(2) be  allottedto  the	 constituencies	 into which that  part	of  the	 newHimachal  Pradesh  which was formerly comprised in  the	 oldState of Bilaspur would be divided.  The learned  AdditionalSolicitor General also relies on s. 16 of the New State	 Actwhich  prescribes  the life of the Legislative	Assembly  bymaking	the  period of five years mentioned in s. 5  of	 thePart  C States Act, for the purposes of computation, to	 runfrom  the date when the old Legislative Assembly of the	 oldHimachal  Pradesh came into being.  His contention  is	thatthe result of these sections clearly is that the 36  memberswho  had  been	elected previously as  members	of  the	 oldLegislative  Assembly of the old Himachal Pradesh  were,  bythe  New State Act itself, constituted the  new	 LegislativeAssembly of the new Himachal Pradesh and that provision	 wasmade  for the addition to this new Legislative	Assembly  offive  members  as  and when elected by	the  voters  of	 theconstituencies into which the area formerly comprised in theterritory of the old State of Bilaspur shall be divided.  Inother  words, his argument is that immediately on  the	com-mencement  of the New State Act the Legislative Assembly  ofthe new Himachal Pradesh was duly constituted and came	intobeing  with  36 members as persona designate and  that	onlyfive  more members had to be brought in as and when  electedso  as to bring the total strength to 41.  According to	 thelearned	 Additional, Solicitor General, the position in	 lawis that there was a Legislative Assembly of the171new Himachal Pradesh then consisting of 36 members and	thatit  was that Legislative Assembly that had been summoned  bythe  Lieutenant Governor.  The learned Additional  SolicitorGeneral	 maintains that the fact that five members  had	 notbeen elected from-' the constituencies of the area which wasformerly  comprised  in	 the territories  of  the  State  ofBilaspur   did	not  vitiate  tile  proceedings,   for	 theLegislative  Assembly  had,  under s. 15(3) of	the  Part  CStates Act, power to act notwithstanding any vacancy in	 themembership  thereof.   He  has	referred  us  to   Webster'sDictionary  and	 Oxford Dictionary for the  meaning  of	 thewords " vacant " and " vacancy ". He has also referred us tos. 147(2) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951	 ands. 25 of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956, in support  ofhis proposition that a post or place may be as appropriatelysaid to be vacant when after its creation it had never	beenfilled as it can be said to be vacant in the case of a	postor  place which after its creation had been filled  and	 hadthen been vacated.  The learned Additional Solicitor Generalconcedes  that strictly speaking the 36 members of  the	 oldLegislative Assembly of the old Himachal Pradesh who, by thefiction created by s. 15(1) of the New State Act had  becomemembers of the new Legislative Assembly of the new  HimachalPradesh,  should  have made and subscribed a fresh  oath  oraffirmation but that the absence of that formality is a mereirregularity  which,  by virtue of s. 15(3) of	the  Part  CStates	Act corresponding to Arts. 100(2) and 189(2) of	 theConstitution,  did  not	 vitiate  the  proceedings  of	 theLegislative  Assembly  which had passed the  Abolition	Act,which is under challenge in these petitions.Section	 15(1) of the New State Act only provides that	eachof the 36 sitting members of the old Legislative Assembly ofthe old Himachal Pradesh shall on and from the	commencementof  the Act represent the constituency of the same  name  inthe  new Himachal Pradesh and shall be deemed to  have	beenelected	 by that constituency.	The purpose of this  sectionis  to	obviate the necessity for going through	 the  entireprocess of a fresh election so far as these 36 members172were  concerned.   In  other words, these  36  members	wereexempted  from	seeking election or from being	elected	 andwere,  by a statutory fiction, taken as having been  electedto  the Legislative Assembly of the I new Himachal  Pradesh.By  the	 operation of the deeming provision embodied  in  s.15(1)  the 36 members have been placed in the same  positionas they would have been placed in had they gone through	 theentire	process of election and had been  returned  elected.The requirements of law to be followed after the election iscompleted  have yet to be followed.  For the section to	 saythat these 36 members shall represent the constituencies  ofthe  same  name	 in the new Himachal Pradesh  and  shall  bedeemed	to have been elected to the Legislative Assembly  ofthe new Himachal Pradesh by the same constituencies -is	 notto   say  that	these  36  persons  alone   constitute	 theLegislative  Assembly of the new Himachal Pradesh.  It	onlylays down that these 36 persons shall be deemed to have beenelected	  without  going  through  the	actual	process	  ofelection.  Apart from providing that these 36 persons  shallrepresent the several constituencies and shall be deemed  tohave been elected by the voters of those constituencies,  s.15(1)  does  not go further and say that  these	 36  personsshall,	without more, constitute the  Legislative  Assembly.Therefore, the requirements of Law applicable to the furtherstages after the election is over have still to be  compliedwith.	In  other words the purpose of s. 15(1)	 is  not  toConstitute  and bring into being the  Legislative  Assembly.For that a notification under s. 74 of the Representation ofthe  People Act, 1951, has to be issued.  That	notification-gives	life  to the Legislative Assembly as s.	 73  of	 theamended section clearly indicates.What  did  the	Lieutenant Governor do or intend  to  do  byissuing the notification dated July 7, 1954, quoted above  ?The  fact  that the Lieutenant Governor did  not  intend  tosummon a meeting of the new Legislative Assembly of the	 newHimachal  Pradesh  is  made clear by the fact  that  by	 thenotification  in question he convened what he  described  asthe second ,session of the Legislative Assembly.  After	 thecreation173of  the	 new  Himachal Pradesh there had  been	no  previoussession	 of its Legislative Assembly at all and the  sessionconvened,  if it was to be a session of the new	 LegislativeAssembly  of  the new Himachal Pradesh, was to be  its	veryfirst  session.	 It was, there-, fore, wholly  inappropriateand utterly incorrect to describe the session thus  convenedas  the second session.	 The provision of s. 16 of  the	 newState  Act which computes the period of five years  durationfrom  the  date of the commencement of the  old	 LegislativeAssembly of the old Himachal Pradesh cannot affect the	factthat  the  old	Legislative  Assembly as  well	as  the	 oldHimachal Pradesh had ceased to exist and that the meeting ofthe  new  Legislative Assembly of the new  State  after	 thecommencement of the New State Act must be its first  sessionand  not  the second.  It may well be  that  the  LieutenantGovernor took the view that the new Legislative Assembly  ofthe  new  Himachal  Pradesh would  not	be  constituted	 andbrought into being until five members from the Bilaspur areahad been elected so as to bring the total number of  membersto  41	as prescribed by s. 12 and that until then  the	 oldHimachal  Pradesh  and the old	Legislative  Assembly  wouldremain	alive and that, therefore, the Bill which  had	beenintroduced  in	the  first session of  the  old	 LegislativeAssembly of old Himachal Pradesh had not lapsed under s.  25of  Part  C States Act.	 The Lieutenant Governor in  such  asituation  may well have thought that as under s. 9  of	 thePart  C States Act more than six months must  not  intervenebetween	 its  last  sitting in one  session  and  ,the	dateappointed  for	its first sitting in the next  session,	 andaccordingly  may  have thought- fit to	convene	 the  secondsession	 of  the old Assembly.	This conclusion	 is  furtherreinforced  by	the  fact that no oath	or  affirmation	 wasadministered  to  the  36 persons  when	 they  assembled  inpursuance of the summons as required by s. 14 of the Part  CStates	Act  as	 well  as  by  the  further  fact  that	 theLegislative  Assembly which was summoned by  the  LieutenantGovernor under s. 9 of the Part C States Act did not  chooseany of the members to be the Speaker of that Legislative174Assembly.  Indeed the printed resume of the work done by theHimachal  Pradesh  Legislative Assembly	 during	 the  secondsession 1954, as published by its Secretary, shows that	 thehouse  granted	leave  of ,absence from	 the  House  to	 SriJaiwant Ram, Speaker, for the duration of that session.	 SriJaiwant Ram is no other than the person who had been electedthe  Speaker  of  the old Legislative Assembly	of  the	 oldHimachal    Pradesh.	The   discussion    whether    theseirregularities can or cannot be cured under s. 15(3) and  s.35  of	Part  C States Act is not relevant  at	this  stage.Assuming  that the word " vacancy " as used in	the  sectionhas  the  wide	connotation contended  for  by	the  learnedAdditional  Solicitor General and without, for	our  presentpurpose,  adverting to the obviously possible abuse  such  awide meaning may lead to, it must be noted that the  sectionclearly	 contemplates that there is a  Legislative  Assemblyduly  constituted and brought into existence and that it  issubsequently  discovered  that "some persons" have  sat	 andvoted without making and subscribing an oath or affirmation.The  section postulates the existence of a duly	 constitutedLegislative Assembly.  It does not apply to a case where theLegislative  Assembly  has not at all been  constituted	 andbrought	  into	being  by  a  notification  issued  by	 theappropriate   authority	 and  then  duly  summoned  by	 theLieutenant Governor.  Whether absence of such a notificationwill  vitiate  the  proceedings	 even  if  all	the  membersproperly  elected to the Legislative Assembly  are  summonedand they take part in the proceedings after taking the	oathand  electing  a  Speaker need not  be	considered  on	thisoccasion.   The	 present discussion is for  the	 purpose  ofascertaining  as to what was -in the mind of the  LieutenantGovernor  when	he  issued the	notification  convening	 thesecond	session	 of  the Legislative Assembly  and  what  hepurported to do.  The fact that he summoned the	 LegislativeAssembly  to a second session signifies that he bad in	mindthe  Legislative Assembly of the old Himachal Pradesh  whichalready	 bad  a sitting before and summoned it to  a  secondsession.  The fact that no oath or affirmation175was  administered  to  any  member and	that  there  was  noelection of a Speaker also quite clearly indicates that	 theLieutenant  Governor was not summoning the  new	 LegislativeAssembly of the new Himachal Pradesh.  This is made  furtherclear  by  the fact that the Lieutenant Governor  must	haveknown  that the old Himachal Pradesh having ceased to  existits  Legislative Assembly had also gone with it, and that  abill  pending  in the Legislative  Assembly  thus  dissolvedwould  have lapsed under s. 25 and the first sitting of	 thenew  Legislative  Assembly of the., new	 State	of  HimachalPradesh	 could	not proceed with the lapsed Bill.   In	thiscontext	 the question whether the irregularity can be  curedunder  S. 15(3) of the Part C States Act or is	made  immunefrom  challenge	 under	s. 35 does not arise  at  all.	 Theproblem	 before	 us  is	 to  determine	which  Assembly	 theLieutenant  Governor  had convened.  In our opinion  the  socalled	Legislative  Assembly which was convened  and  whichpurported to pass the Abolition Act was not the	 LegislativeAssembly  of  the new Himachal Pradesh created	by  the	 NewState Act, therefore, the impugned Act cannot be regarded asa  piece  of validity enacted legislation.  That  being	 theposition the interference with the rights of the petitionersin  and.  to  their respective properties cannot  be  for  amoment	be  justified or permitted and	the  first  questionraised	on  behalf of the petitioners must  be	answered  intheir favour.In  the view we have taken it is not necessary for us to  gointo the second question sought to be raised before its.The  result,  therefore,  is that we issue in  each  of	 thepetitions  a  mandamus directing the respondent	 to  forbearfrom  giving effect to or acting in any manner under  or  onthe basis of the said impugned Act and also restraining	 therespondent, its servants and agents, from taking any  actionon the basis of the said Act or interfering in any way	withthe  petitioners' properties or their rights in	 respect  oftheir  properties  or  from  disturbing	 or  affecting	 thepetitioners'  possession  thereof The  petitioners  will  beentitled  to the general costs of each of  these  petitions,but the respondent will176pay  only three sets of costs for the hearing,	namely,	 oneset each to the petitioners represented by Shri Achhru	Ram,Shri D. R. Prem and Shri Y. Kumar respectively and also	 oneset of hearing fees for each of the advocates-on-record.Petitions allowed.