PETITIONER:RAJAHMUNDRY ELECTRIC SUPPLYCORPORATION LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:A. NAGESWARA RAO AND OTHERS:DATE OF JUDGMENT:16/12/1955BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABOSE, VIVIANCITATION: 1956 AIR  213		  1955 SCR  (2)1066ACT:Indian	Companies  Act, 1913 (VII of 1913),  s.	 153-C	sub-clause (3)(a)(i) and s. 162 (v) and (vi)-Application for  anorder  under  s.153-C-Validity thereof to be judged  on	 thefacts at the time of presentation thereof-Subsequent events-Effect thereof-Order under s. 153-C-Whether competent beforefacts  proved make out a case for winding up under  s.	162-Words  "just  and equitable" in s.  162(vi)-Whether  ejusdemgeneris with the matters mentioned in clauses (i) to (v)  ofthe section-Mere misconduct of Directors in misappropriatingfunds  of a Company-Apart from	other  circumstances-Whetherwarrants  an  order  for  the  winding	up  of	a   Company-Circumstances  under  which an order for winding up  can  bepassed by the court.HEADNOTE:An  application was filed by the first respondent  under  s.162 clauses (v) and (vi) of the Indian Companies Act for thewinding	 up of the Company on the grounds, inter-alia,	thatthe  affairs of the Company were being mismanaged  and	thatthe directors had misappropriated the funds of the  Company.In the alternative it was prayed that action might be  takenunder  s. 153-C and appropriate orders be passed to  protectthe interests of the shareholders.  The High Court held	 (i)that  the  charges  set	 out in	 the  application  bad	beensubstantially proved and that it was a fit case for an orderfor  winding  up being made under s. 162(vi) and  (ii)	thatunder the circumstances action could be taken under s. 153-Cand accordingly it appointed two administrators with all thepowers	of  directors  to  look after  the  affairs  of	 theCompany.  On appeal by special leave to the Supreme Court bythe Company it was contended that the1067application under s. 153-C was not maintainable inasmuch  asthere  was  no	proof that the applicant  had  obtained	 theconsent	 of requisite number of shareholders as provided  insub-clause (3)(a)(i) to s. 153-C, that clause providing thata  member  applying for relief must obtain  the	 consent  inwriting of not less than one hundred members of the  Companyor  not	 less than one-tenth of the members of	the  Companywhichever is less.  It was alleged that thirteen members whohad given their consent to the filing of the application hadsubsequently withdrawn their consent.Held  that the validity of a petition must be judged on	 thefacts  as they were at the time of its presentation,  and  apetition  which	 was  valid when presented  cannot,  in	 theabsence of a provision to that effect in the statute,  ceaseto  be	maintainable by reason of events subsequent  to	 itspresentation.  The withdrawal of consent by thirteen of	 themembers, even if true, could not affect either the right  ofthe applicant to proceed with the application or the  juris-diction of the court to dispose of it on its own merits.Held  further that before taking action under s.  153-C	 thecourt must be satisfied that circumstances exist on which anorder  for winding up could be made under s. 162  and  wheretherefore  the	facts  proved do not make  out	a  case	 forwinding	 up  under s. 162, no order can be passed  under  s.153-C.The  words "just and equitable" in s. 162(vi) are not to  beconstrued  ejusdem  generis with the  matters  mentioned  inclauses (i) to (v)  of the section.If  there  is  merely  a  misconduct  of  the  directors  inmisappropriating  the  funds  of the Company  an  order	 forwinding	 up  would  not	 be just and  equitable	 but  if  inaddition  to  such  misconduct,	 circumstances	exist  whichrender	it  desirable in the interests of  the	shareholdersthat the Company should be wound up, s. 162(vi) would be  nobar to the jurisdiction of the court to make such an order.The order for winding up was just and equitable in the	cir-cumstances of the present case.In re Anglo-Greek Steam Company ([1866] L.R. 2 Eq. 1), In reDiamond	 Fuel  Company ([1879] 13 Ch.  D.  400),  Spackman'sCase  ([1849]  1  M. & G. 170), Be  Suburban  Hotel  Company([1867] 2 Ch.  App. 737), Be European Life Assurance Society([1869]	 I,.R.	9  Eq. 122),  In  re  Amalgamated  Syndicate([1897]	 2 Ch. 600) and Loch v. John Blackwood Ltd.  ([1924]A. C. 783, 790), referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 312 of 1955.On appeal by special leave from the judgment and order datedthe 19th October 1955 of the Andhra High Court at Guntur  in0. S. Appeal No. I of 19551068arising	 out  of the Order dated the 26th day  of  September1955  of the said High Court in its Ordinary Original  CivilJurisdiction in O.P. No. 3 of 1955.M.   S. K. Sastri, for the appellant.D.   Narasaraju, Advocate-General, Andhra (T.  Anantha	Babuand T. V. R. Tatachari with him), for respondent No. 1.D.   Narasaraju, Advocate-General, Andhra (A.	Krishnaswamiand K. B. Chowdhry, with him) for respondents Nos. 2 and 3.1955.  December 16.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyVENKATARAMA   AYYAR   J.-This  appeal  arises  out   of	  anapplication filed by the first respondent under section 162,clauses	 (v)  and (vi) of the Indian Companies	Act  for  anorder that the Rajahmundry Electric Supply Corporation Ltd.,be  wound up.  The grounds on which the relief	was  claimedwere that the affairs of the Company were being grossly mis-managed, that large amounts were owing to the Government forcharges	 for  electric	energy supplied by  them,  that	 thedirectors had misappropriated the funds of the Company,	 andthat  the  directorate	which had  the	majority  in  votingstrength  was  "riding	roughshod" over the  rights  of	 theshareholders.  In the alternative, it was prayed that actionmight  be taken under section 153-C and	 appropriate  orderspassed to protect the rights of the shareholders.  The	onlyeffective  opposition  to  the	application  came  from	 theChairman of the Company, Appanna Ranga Rao, who contested iton  the	 ground	 that  it  was	the  Vice  Chairman,  DevataRamamobanrao, who was responsible for the  maladministrationof   the  Company,  that  he  had  been	 removed  from	 thedirectorate,  and  steps  were being taken to  call  him  toaccount, and that there was accordingly no ground either forpassing	 an  order under section 162, or for  taking  actionunder section 153-C.The  learned Judge of the Andhra High Court before whom	 theapplication came up for hearing, held that1069the  charges set out therein had been substantially  proved,and that it was a fit case for an order for winding up beingmade  under  section 162(vi).  He also held that  under	 thecircumstances action could be taken under section 153-C, andaccordingly appointed two administrators for the  managementof  the Company for a period of six months vesting  in	themall  the powers of the directorate and authorising  them  totake  the  necessary steps for recovering the  amounts	due,paying	the  debts  and	 for  convening	 a  meeting  of	 theshareholders  for the purpose of ascertaining  their  wisheswhether the administration should continue, or whether a newBoard of Directors should be constituted for the  managementof the Company.Against this order, the Chairman, Appanna Ranga Rao,  actingin the name of the Company preferred an appeal to a Bench ofthe  Andhra High Court.	 The learned Judges agreed with	 thetrial Judge that the affairs of the Company, as they  stood,justified  action being taken under section 153-C, and	dis-missed	the  appeal.  Against this order,  the	Company	 haspreferred this appeal by special leave. On  behalf of the appellant, it was firstly contended	thatthe application in so far as it was laid under section 153-Cwas  not  maintainable,	 as  there was	no  proof  that	 theapplicant  bad obtained the consent of the requisite  numberof  shareholders  as  provided in  sub-clause  (3)(a)(i)  tosection	 153-C.	  That	clause provides	 that  a  member  isentitled  to  apply for relief only if he has  obtained	 theconsent in writing of not less than one hundred in number ofthe  members  of the company or not less than  one-tenth  innumber	of  the	 members,  whichever  is  less.	  The  firstrespondent  stated in his application that he  bad  obtainedthe consent of 80 shareholders, which was more than onetenthof  the total number of members, and had thus satisfied	 thecondition  laid	 down in section 153-C, sub-clause  (3)	 (a)(i).  To this, an objection was taken in one of the  writtenstatements  filed on behalf of the respondents that  out  ofthe  80 persons who had consented to the institution of	 theapplication, 13 were not share-holders at all, and that	 twomembers1070had  signed  twice.  It was further alleged that 13  of	 thepersons	 who  had given their consent to the filing  of	 theapplication  had subsequently withdrawn their  consent.	  Inthe result, excluding these 28 members, it was pleaded,	 thenumber of persons who had consented would be reduced to	 52,and therefore the condition laid down in section 153-C, sub-clause (3) (a) (i) was not satisfied.This  point is not dealt with in the judgment of  the  trialcourt,	and the argument before us is that as the  objectionwent  to  the  root of the matter and  struck  at  the	verymaintainability	 of  the application, evidence	should	havebeen  taken on the matter and a finding,  recorded  thereon.We do not find any substance in this contention.  Though theobjection   was	 raised	 in  the  written   statement,	 therespondents  did  not press the same at the trial,  and	 thequestion  was  never  argued before the	 trial	Judge.	 Thelearned	 Judges	 before whom this contention was  raised  onappeal	declined to entertain it, as it was not	 pressed  inthe trial court, and there are no grounds for permitting theappellant  to raise it in this appeal.	Even  otherwise,  weare of opinion that this contention must, on the allegationsin  the	 statement, assuming them to be true,  fail  on	 themerits.	  Excluding  the  names of the 13  persons  who	 arestated to be not members and the two who are stated to	havesigned twice, the number of members who had given consent tothe  institution of the application was 65.  The number ofmembers of the Company is stated to be 603.  If,  therefore,65  members consented to the  application in  writing,	thatwould  be sufficient to satisfy the condition laid  down  insection 153-C, subclause  (3)(a) (i).  But it is argued thatas 13 of the members who had consented to the filing of	 theapplication  bad, subsequent to its presentation,  withdrawntheir	consent,  it  thereafter  ceased  to   satisfy	 therequirements of the statute, and was no longer maintainable.We  have  no hesitation in rejecting this  contention.	 Thevalidity  of a petition must be judged on the facts as	theywere  at the time of its presentation, and a petition  whichwas valid when1071presented  cannot,  in the absence of a	 provision  to	thateffect in the statute, cease to be maintainable by reason ofevents subsequent to its presentation.	In our opinion,	 thewithdrawal  of consent by 13 of the members, even  if  true,cannot	affect either the right of the applicant to  proceedwith  the  application or the jurisdiction of the  court  todispose of it on its own merits.It   was  next	contended  that	 the  allegations   in	 theapplication  were  not sufficient to support  a	 winding  uporder under section 162, and that therefore no action  couldbe  taken under section 153-C.	We agree with the  appellantthat  before  taking action under section 153-C,  the  courtmust be satisfied that circumstances exist on which an orderfor  winding up could be made under section 162.   The	truescope  of  section  153-C  is  that  whereas  prior  to	 itsenactment  the court had no option but to pass an order	 forwinding up when the conditions mentioned in section 162 weresatisfied, it could now in exercise of the powers  conferredby  that  section make an order for its	 management  by	 thecourt with a view to its being ultimately salvaged.   Where,therefore,  the	 facts	proved do not make out	a  case	 forwinding up under section 162, no order could be passed undersection	 153-C.	 The question therefore to be determined  iswhether	 the  facts  found make out a  case  for  passing  awinding up order under section 162.  In his application	 thefirst respondent relied on section 162, clauses (v) and (vi)for an order for winding up.  Under section 162(v), such  anorder  could  be made if the company is unable	to  pay	 itsdebts.	It was. alleged in the application that the  arrearsdue  to	 the Government on 25-6-1955 by way of	charges	 forenergy	supplied by them amounted to Rs. 3,10,175-3-6.	 Butthere was no evidence that the Company was unable to pay theamount and was commercially insolvent, and the learned trialJudge  rightly	held that section 162(v)  was  inapplicable.But  he was of the opinion that on the facts established  itwas just and equitable to make an order for winding up undersection	 162(vi),  and that view has been  affirmed  by	 thelearned Judges on appeal.1072It  was	 argued	 for the appellant that	 the  evidence	onlyestablished  that the Vice-Chairman, Devata  Ramamohan	Rao,who   had   been  ineffective  management  was	 guilty	  ofmisconduct,  and that by itself was not a sufficient  groundfor  making an order for winding up.  It was further  arguedthat  the words "just and equitable" in clause (vi) must  beconstrued  ejusdem  generis with the  matters  mentioned  inclauses	 (i) to (v), that mere misconduct of  the  directorswas not a ground on which a winding up order could be  made,and  that it was a matter of internal management  for  whichresort	must  be bad to the other remedies provided  in	 theAct.   The decisions in In re Anglo-Greek  Steam  Company(1)and In re Diamond Fuel Company(2) were relied on in  supportof this position.  In In re Anglo-Greek Steam Company(1), itwas  held that the misconduct of the directors of a  companywas  not a ground on which the court could order winding  upunder	the  just  and	equitable  clause,  unless  it	 wasestablished that by reason of such mismanagement the companybad become insolvent.  In In re Diamond Fuel Company(2),  itwas observed by Baggallay, L.J. that,"...mere  misconduct  or mismanagement on the  part  of	 thedirectors,  even although it might be such as to  justify  asuit   against	them  in  respect  of  such  misconduct	  ormismanagement,	is  not of itself sufficient  to  justify  awinding-up order".The  contention of the appellant is that as all the  chargesmade  in the application amounted only to misconduct on	 thepart  of the directors, and as there was no proof  that	 theCompany was unable to pay its debts, an order for winding upunder section 162 could not be made.The authorities relied on by the appellant reflect the	viewwhich was at one time held in England as to the true meaningand  scope  of	the  words  "just  and	equitable"  in	 theprovisions  corresponding to section 162(vi) of	 the  IndianAct.  In Spackman's Case(3), Lord Cottenham, L.C.  construedthem as ejusdem(1) [1866] L.R. 2 Eq. 1.   (2) [1879] 13 Ch.  D. 400, 408.(3) [1849) 1 M. & G. 170; 41 E.R. 1228, 1230.1073generis	 with the matters mentioned in the other clauses  tothe section, and that construction was followed in a  numberof cases.  Vide Re Suburban Hotel Co.(1), In re	 Anglo-GreekSteam Company(2), Re European Life Assurance Society(3)	 andIn re Diamond Fuel Company(4).	But a different view came tobe  adopted  in	 later decisions  (vide	 In  re	 AmalgamatedSyndicate(5)),	and  the question must now be  taken  to  besettled	 by the pronouncement of the Judicial  Committee  inLoch  v.  John Blackwood Ld.(6), where	after  an  elaboratereview of the authorities, Lord Shaw observed that,".......... it is in accordance with the laws of England, ofScotland  and of Ireland that the ejusdem  generis  doctrine(as  supposed to have been laid by Lord Cottenham) does	 notoperate	 so as to confine the cases of winding up  to  thosestrictly  analogous to the instances of the first five	sub-sections of section 129 of the British Act'.The law is thus stated in Halsbury's Laws of England,  ThirdEdition, Volume 6, page 534, para 1035:"The words 'just and equitable' in the enactment  specifyingthe  grounds for winding up by the court are not to be	readas  being  ejusdem generis with the preceding words  of	 theenactment".When once it is held that the words "just and equitable" arenot   to   be  construed  ejusdem  generis,   then   whethermismanagement  of  directors is a ground  for  a  winding-uporder under section 162(vi) becomes a question to be decidedon   the  facts	 of  each  case.   Where  nothing  more	  isestablished than that the directors have misappropriated thefunds  of the Company, an order for winding up would not  bejust or equitable, because if it is a sound concern, such anorder  must  operate  harshly on the rights  of	 the  share-holders.    But	  if,  in  addition  to	  such	 misconduct,circumstances  exist  which  render  it	 desirable  in	 theinterests  of  the shareholders that the Company  should  bewound up, there is nothing in section 162(vi)(1)  [1867] 2 Ch.  App. 737.(3)  [1869] L.R. 9 Eq. 122.(5)  [1897] 2 Ch. 600.(2)  [1866] L.R. 2 Eq. 1.(4)  [1879] 13 Ch.  D. 400, 408.(6)  [1924] A.C. 783, 790.1074which  bars  the jurisdiction of the court to make  such  anorder.	Loch v.John Blackwood.(1)was itself a case in  whichthe  order  for winding up was asked for on  the  ground  ofmismanagement by the directors, and the law was thus  statedat page 788:"It   is  undoubtedly  true  that  at  the   foundation	  ofapplications  for  winding up, on the 'just  and  equitable'rule, there must lie a justifiable lack of confidence in theconduct	 and management of the company's affairs.  But	thislack  of  confidence  must be grounded	on  conduct  of	 thedirectors,  not in regard to their private life or  affairs,but  in regard to the company's business.  Further more	 thelack  of confidence must spring not from dissatisfaction  atbeing outvoted on the business affairs or on what is  calledthe  domestic  policy of the company.  On  the	other  hand,wherever  the  lack  of confidence is rested on	 a  lack  ofprobity	 in the conduct of the company's affairs,  then	 theformer	is  justified  by the latter, and it  is  under	 thestatute just and equitable that the company be wound up".Now,  the  facts as found by the courts below are  that	 theVice-Chairman grossly mismanaged the affairs of the Company,and   had  drawn  considerable	amounts	 for  his   personalpurposes,  that arrears due to the Government for supply  ofelectric  energy as on 25-6-1955 was Rs. 3,10,175-3-6,	thatlarge collections had to be made  that the machinery was  ina  state  of disrepair, that by reason of  death  and  othercauses the directorate had become greatly attenuated and  "apowerful  local	 junta was ruling the roost", and  that	 theshareholders   outside	the  group  of	the  Chairman	wereapathetic  and	powerless to set matters  right.   On  thesefindings,  the	courts	below had the power  to	 direct	 thewinding	 up  of the Company under section  162(vi),  and  nogrounds	 have  been  shown for our  interfering	 with  theirorder.It  was urged on behalf of the appellant that as  the  Vice-Chairman who was responsible for the mismanagement had	beenremoved, and the present (1) [1924] A.C. 783, 790.1075management  was taking steps to set things right and to	 putan  end to the matters complained of, there was no  need  totake  action under section 153-C.  But the findings  of	 thecourts	below are that the Chairman himself either  activelyco-operated  with  the	ViceChairman  in  various  acts	  ofmisconduct  and	 maladministration or that he  had,  at	 anyrate, on his own showing abdicated the entire management  tohim, and that as the affairs of the Company where in a stateof  confusion  and embarrassment, it was necessary  to	takeaction	under  section 153-C.  We are of  opinion  that	 thelearned	 Judges	 were  justified on the	 above	findings  inpassing the order which they did.It was also contended that the appointment of administratorsin supersession of the directorate and vesting power in themto manage the Company was an interference with its  internalmanagement.  It is no doubt the law that courts will not, ingeneral,  intervene  at	 the  instance	of  shareholders  inmatters	 of internal administration, and will not  interferewith  the management of a company by its directors, so	longas they are acting within the power conferred on them  underthe Articles of Association.  But this rule can by its	verynature apply only when the company is a running concern, andit  is	sought to interfere with its affairs  as  a  runningconcern.  But when an application is presented to wind up  acompany, its very object is to put an end to its  existence,and  for  that	purpose	 to  terminate	its  management	  inaccordance  with the Articles of Association and to vest  itin the court., In that situation, there is no scope for	 therule  that  the	 court should not interfere  in	 matters  ofinternal management.  And where accordingly a case had	beenmade out for an order for winding up under section 162,	 theappointment of administrators under section 153-C cannot  beattacked  on the ground that it is an interference with	 theinternal  management  of the affairs of the Company.   If  aLiquidator  can	 be  appointed to manage the  affairs  of  acompany	 when an order for winding up is made under  section162, administrators could also be1361076appointed to manage its affairs, when action is taken  undersection	  153-C.   This	 contention  must   accordingly	  berejected.In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs,of  the	 first respondent.  The costs of  the  administratorwill come out of the estate.