PETITIONER:DEOKI NANDAN	Vs.RESPONDENT:MURLIDHAR.DATE OF JUDGMENT:04/10/1956BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAJAGANNADHADAS, B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  133		  1956 SCR  756ACT:Hindu	Law-Religious  endowment-Temple-Public	or   private-Question  of  mixed  fact  and	 law-Gift  to  idol--Whetherworshippers  are  the  beneficiaries-Dedication	 to  public-Construction of will -Ceremonies relating to installation ofidol-User of temple.HEADNOTE:The  issue  whether a religious endowment is a public  or  aprivate one is a mixed question of law and fact the decisionof which must depend on the application of legal concepts ofa  public and a private endowment to the facts found and  isopen to consideration by the Supreme Court.Lakshmidhar Misra v. Bangalal ([1949] L.R. 76 I.A. 271), re-ferred to.The distinction between a private and a public endowment  isthat  whereas in the former the beneficiaries  are  specificindividuals, in the latter they are the general public or  aclass thereof.757Though under Hindu law an idol is a juristic person  capableof  holding  property, and the properties  endowed  for	 thetemple vest in it, it can have no beneficial interest in theendowment,  and the true beneficiaries are the	worshippers,as  the real purpose of a gift of properties to an  idol  isnot  to	 confer any benefit on God, but the  acquisition  ofspiritual benefit by providing opportunities and  facilitiesfor those who desire to worship.Prosunno Kumari Debya v. Golab Chand Baboo ([1875] L.R. 2  IA.  -145),  Maharaja  Jagadindra Nath Boy  Bahadur  v.	BaniHemanta Kumari Debi ([1904] L.R. 31 I.A. 203), Pramatha NathMullik v. Pradhyumna Kumar Mullik ([1924] L.R. 52 I.A.	245)and  Bhupati  Nath Smrititirtha v. Bam	Lal  Maitra  ([1910]I.L.R. 37 Cal. 128), referred to.A pious Hindu who was childless constructed a temple and wasin  management	of it till his death.  He  executed  a	willwhereby	 he bequeathed all his lands to the temple and	madeprovision  for	its  proper management.	  The  question	 waswhether the provisions of the will disclosed an intention onthe  part  of  the testator to dedicate the  temple  to	 thepublic or merely to the members of the family.Hold  that the recital in the will that the testator had  nosons coupled with provisions for the management of the trustby  strangers was an indication that the dedication  was  tothe public.Nabi  Shirazi  v. Province of Bengal (I.L.R. [1942]  1	Cal.211), referred to.Held further, that the performance of ceremonies at the con-secration of the temple (Prathista), the user of the  templeand  other evidence in the case showed that  the  dedicationwas for worship by the general public.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 250 of 1953,Appeal	from the judgment and decree dated July 14, 1948  ofthe Chief Court of Audh, Lucknow in Second Appeal No. 365 of1945  arising  out of the decree dated May 30, 1945  of	 theCourt  of  District Judge, Sitapur in Appeal No. 4  of	1945against	 the decree dated November 25, 1944 of the Court  ofAdditional Civil Judge, Sitapur in Regular Civil Suit No. 14of 1944.A.  D.	Mathur,	 for  the  appellant.Jagdish, Chandra, for respondent No. 1.     7581956. October 4. The Judgment of the Court   was  deliveredby	  VENKATARAMA  AYYAR  J.-The point for	decision  inthis  appeal is whether a Thakurdwara of Sri  Radhakrishnajiin  the village of Bhadesia in the District of Sitapur is  aprivate	 temple or a public one in which all the Hindus	 areentitled to worship.One  Sheo Ghulam, a pious Hindu and a resident of  the	saidvillage,  had the Thakurdwara constructed during  the  years1914-1916, and the idol of Shri Radhakrishnaji ceremoniouslyinstalled  therein.   He was himself in	 management  of	 thetemple	and its affairs till 1928 when he died	without	 anyissue.	On March 6, 1919, he had executed a will whereby  hebequeathed  all his lands to the Thakur.  The provisions  ofthe will, in so far as they are material, will presently  bereferred  to.	The testator had two wives one of  whom	 RamKuar, had predeceased him and the surviving widow, Raj Kuar,succeeded  him as Mutawalli in terms of the will and was  inmanagement.  till  her	death  in  1933.   Then	 the   firstdefendant who is the nephew of Sheo Ghulam, got into posses-sion  of  the  properties as manager  of  the  endowment  inaccordance  with the provisions of the will.  The  appellantis  a distant agnate of Sheo Ghulam, and on  the  allegationthat the first defendant bad been mismanaging the temple anddenyinng  the  rightg of the public therein,  he  moved	 theDistrict Court of Sitapur for relief under the Religious andCharitable  Endowments	Act  XIV  of  1920,  but  the  courtdeclined  to interfere on the ground that the endowment	 wasprivate.    An	application  to	 the  Advocate-General	 forsanction to institute a suit under section'92 of the Code ofCivil  Procedure was also refused for the same reason.	 Theappellant  then	 filed the suit, out of	 which	the  presentappeal	arises, for a declaration that the Thakurdwara is  apublic	temple	in  which all the Hindus  have	a  right  toworship.   The	first  defendant  contested  the  suit,	 andclaimed	 that  "the  Thakurdwara  an  -	 d  the	 idols	wereprivate", and that "the general public had no right to	makeany interference".		   759The Additional Civil Judge, Sitapur, who tried the suit	 wasof  the opinion that the Thakurdwara had been built by	SheoGhulam	"for  worship  by his family", and  that  it  was  aprivate	 temple.  He accordingly dismissed the	suit.	Thisjudgment  was  affirmed	 on appeal by  the  District  Judge,Sitapur,  whose	 decision again was affirmed  by  the  ChiefCourt  of  Oudh	 in  second  appeal.   The  learned  Judges,however, granted a' certificate under s. 109(c) of the	Codeof  Civil  Procedure that the question involved was  one  ofgreat  importance, and that is how the appeal  comes  beforeUs.The question that arises for decision in this appeal whetherthe  Thakurdwara  of  Sri Radhakrishnaji at  Bhadesia  is  apublic	endowment or a private one is one of mixed  law	 andfact.	In Lakshmidhar Misra v. Rang-alal(1), in  which	 thequestion  was  whether certain lands had been  dedicated  ascremation ground, it was observed by the Privy Council	thatit  was "essentially a mixed question of law and fact",	 andthat while the findings of fact of the lower appellate courtmust  be  accepted as binding, its "actual  conclusion	thatthere  has been a dedication or lost grant is more  properlyregarded  as a proposition of law derived from	those  factsthan as a finding of fact itself".  In the present case,  itwas  admitted  that there was a formal dedication;  and	 thecontroversy is only as to the scope of- the dedication,	 andthat is also a mixed question of law and fact, the  decisionof which must depend on the application of legal concepts ofa  public  and a private endowment to the facts	 found,	 andthat is open to consideration in this appeal.It  will be convenient first to consider the  principles  oflaw applicable to a determination of the question whether anendowment is public or private, and then to examine, in	 thelight  of those principles, the facts found or	established.The distinction between a private and a public trust is thatwhereas	 in  the  former  the  beneficiaries  are   specificindividuals, in the latter they are the general public or  aclass  thereof.	 While in the former the  beneficiaries	 arepersons who are(1)  [1949] L.R. 76 I.A. 271.		 761laid  down in the Sanskrit Texts.  Thus, in his	 Bhashya  onthe  Purva Mimamsa, Adhyaya 9, Pada 1, Sahara Swami has	 thefollowing:"Words	such as 'village of the Gods'land of the  Gods'	 areused  in a figurative sense.  That is property which can  besaid  to belong to a person, which he can make use of as  hedesires.   God however does not make use of the	 village  orlands,	according to its desires.  Therefore nobody makes  agift  (to Gods).  Whatever property is abandoned  for  Gods,brings prosperity to those who serve Gods".Likewise,  Medhathithi	in  commenting	on  the	  expression"Devaswam" in Manu, Chapter XI, Verse 26 writes:"Property of the Gods, Devaswam, means whatever is abandonedfor  Gods, for purposes of sacrifice and the  like,  becauseownership in the primary sense, as showing the	relationshipbetween	 the owner and the property owned, is impossible  ofapplication  to Gods.  For the Gods do not make use  of	 theproperty according to their desire nor are they seen' to actfor protecting the same".Thus,  according to the texts, the Gods have  no  beneficialenjoyment  of the properties, and they can be  described  astheir owners only in a figurative sense (Gainartha), and thetrue  purpose of a gift of properties to the idol is not  toconfer any benefit on God, but to acquire spiritual  benefitby  providing  opportunities and facilities  for  those	 whodesire to worship.762In  Bhupati  Nath Smritititha v. Ram Lal Maitra(1),  it	 washeld on a consideration of these and other texts that a giftto an idol was not to be judged by the rules applicable to atransfer  to  a	 'sentient being', and	that  dedication  ofproperties  to an idol consisted in the abandonment  by	 theowner  of  his dominion over them for the purpose  of  theirbeing appropriated for the purposes which he intends.  Thus,it was observed by Sir Lawrence Jenkins C. J. at p. 138 that"the pious purpose is still the legate, the establishment ofthe  image is merely the mode in which the pious purpose  isto be effected" and that "the dedication to a deity" may  be"a  compendious expression of the pious purposes  for  whichthe dedication is designed".  Vide also the observations  ofSir  Ashutosh  Mookerjee  at p.	 155.	In  Hindu  ReligiousEndowments Board v. Yeeraraghavachariar(2), Varadachariar J.dealing	 with  this question, referred to  the	decision  inBhupati	 Nath  Smrititirtha v. Ram Lal	Maitra	(supra)	 andobserved: "As explained in that case, the purpose of making a gift toa  temple is not to confer a benefit on God but to confer  abenefit	 on those who worship in that temple, by  making  itpossible for them to have the worship conducted in a  properand impressive manner.	This is the sense in which a  templeand its endowments are regarded as a public trust".When  once it is understood that the true  beneficiaries  ofreligious endowments are not the idols but the	worshippers,and that the purpose of the endowment is the maintenance  ofthat  worship  for  the	 benefit  of  the  worshippers,	 thequestion whether an endowment is private or public  presentsno difficulty.	The cardinal point to be decided is  whetherit   was  the  intention  of  the  founder  that   specifiedindividuals are to have the right of worship at the  shrine,or the general public or any specified portion thereof.	  Inaccordance  with  this theory, it has been  held  that	whenproperty  is dedicated for the worship of a family idol,  itis a private and not a public endowment, as the persons	 whoare entitled to worship at the shrine of the deity can	onlybe the members of the family,(1) [1910] I.L.R. 37 Cal. 128.(2) A.I.R. 1937 Macl. 750.763and that is an ascertained group of individuals.  But  wherethe beneficiaries are not members of a family or a specifiedindividual,  then  the	endowment can only  be	regarded  aspublic, intended to benefit the general body of worshippers.In the light of these principles, we must examine the  factsof this case.  The materials bearing on the question whetherthe  Thakurdwara is a public temple or a private one may  beconsidered under four heads:(1)	   the will of Sheo  Ghulam,Exhibit A-1, (2) user of the  temple  by  the  public,	 (3)ceremonies relating to the    dedication of the	 Thakurdwaraand  the installation of the idol with special reference  toSankalpa  and Uthsarga, and (4) other facts relating to	 thecharacter of the temple.(1)  The  will, Exhibit A-1, is the most important  evidenceon record as to the intention of the testator and the  scopeof  the	 dedication.   Its provisions, so far  as  they	 arematerial,  may	now be noticed.	 The will  begins  with	 therecital	 that the testator has two wives and no male  issue,that he has constructed a Thakurdwara and installed the idolof  Sri	 Radhakrishnaji	 therein, and that he  is  making  adisposition of the properties with a view to avoid disputes.Clause I of Exhibit A-1 provides that after the death of thetestator "in the absence of male issue, the entire immovableproperty  given below existing at present or which may	comeinto being hereafter shall stand endowed in the name of	 SriRadhakrisbnan,	and mutation of names shall be	effected  infavour of Sri Radhakrishnan in the Government papers and  mywives  Mst.  Raj Kuer and Mst.	Ram kuer shall be the  Muta-wallis of the waqf".  Half the income from the properties isto  be taken by the two wives for their	 maintenance  duringtheir  lifetime, and the remaining half was to "continue  tobe  spent  for	the expenses of	 the  Thakurdwara".   It  isimplicit  in this provision that after the lifetime  of	 thewives,	the  whole of the income is to be utilised  for	 thepurpose of the Thakurdwara.  Clause 4 provides that if a sonis  born  to  the testator, then the properties	 are  to  bedivided between the son and the Thakurdwara in a specified764proportion;  but as no son was born, this clause never	cameinto  operation.  Clause 5 provides that the Mutawallis	 areto have no power to sell or mortgage the property, that theyare  to	 maintain  accounts, that the  surplus	money  aftermeeting the expenses should be deposited in a safe bank	 andwhen funds permit, property should be purchased in the	nameof  Sri	 Radhakrishnaji.  Clause 2 appoints a  committee  offour  persons to look after the , management of	 the  templeand  its properties, and of these, two are not relations  ofthe testator and belong to a different caste.  It is furtherprovided  in  that clause that after the death	of  the	 twowives  the  committee "may appoint my  nephew  Murlidhar  asMutawalli by their unanimous opinion".	This Murlidhar is  adivided nephew of the testator and he is the first defendantin  this  action.   Clause  3 provides	for  filling  up  ofvacancies in the committee.  Then finally there iscl. 6, which runs as follows:"If any person alleging himself to be my near or remote heirfiles  a  claim	 in respect of whole or	 part  of  the	waqfproperty  his  suit shall be improper on the  face  of	thisdeed".The question is whether the provisions of the will  disclosean   intention	on  the	 part  of  the	testator  that	 theThakurdwara should be a private endowment, or that it shouldbe  public.   The  learned  Judges of  the  Chief  Court  inaffirming the decisions of the courts below that the  templewas  built  for the benefit of the members  of	the  family,observed  that there was nothing in the will pointing "to  aconclusion  that the trust was a public one", and  that	 itsprovisions were not "inconsistent with the property being  aprivate endowment".  We are unable to endorse this  opinion.We  think that the will read as a whole indubitably  revealsan  intention  on the part of the testator to  dedicate	 theThakurdwara  to the public and not merely to the members  ofhis family.The  testator begins by stating that he had no	male  issue.In Nabi Shirazi v. Province of Bengal (supra), the  questionwas whether a wakf created by a deed of the year 1806 was  apublic or a private765endowment.   Referring	to a recital in the  deed  that	 thesettlor had no children, Khundkar J. observed at p. 217:"The deed recites that the founder has neither children	 norgrandchildren, a circumstance which in itself suggests	thatthe  imambara  was  not	 to  remain  a	private	 or   familyinstitution".Vide  also  the observations of Mitter J. at  p.  228.	 Thereasoning  on which the above view is based  is,  obviously,that the word 'family' in its popular sense means  children,and  when the settlor recites that he has no children,	thatis an indication that the dedication is not for the  benefitof the family but for the public.Then we have clause 2, under which the testator	 constitutesa committee of management consisting of four persons, two ofwhom were wholly unrelated to him.  Clause 3 confers on	 thecommittee  power  to  fill up vacancies;  but  there  is  norestriction  therein on the persons who could  be  appointedunder  that  clause,  and conceivably,	even  all  the	fourmembers	 might be strangers to the family.  It is  difficultto  believe  that if Sheo Ghulam intended  to  restrict	 theright  of worship in the temple to his relations,  he  wouldhave  entrusted the management thereof to a body  consistingof  strangers.	Lastly, there is clause 6, which shows	thatthe relationship between Sheo Ghulam and his kinsmen was notparticularly cordial, and it is noteworthy that under clause2, even the appointment of the first defendant as manager ofthe endowment is left to the option of the committee.  It isinconceivable  that  with  such	 scant	solicitude  for	 hisrelations, Sheo Ghulam would have endowed a temple for theirbenefit.  And if he did not intend them to be  beneficiariesunder the endowment, who are the members of the, family	 whocould take the benefit thereunder after the lifetime of	 histwo  wives?   If we are to hold that the  endowment  was  infavour of the members of the family, then the result will bethat on the death of the two wives, it must fail for want ofobjects.   But it is clear from the provisions of  the	willthat the testator contemplated the continuance766of  the	 endowment  beyond the lifetime of  his	 wives.	  Hedirected  that the properties should be endowed in the	nameof  the deity, and that lands are to be purchased in  futurein  the	 name  of  the deity.	He  also  provides  for	 themanagement  of	the trust after the lifetime of	 his  wives.And  to effectuate this intention, it is necessary  to	holdthat  the Thakurdwara was dedicated for worship by  -membersof  the public, and not merely of his family.	In  decidingthat the endowment was a -private one, the learned Judges ofthe  Chief Court failed to advert to these aspects,  and  weare unable to accept their decision as correct.2.   In the absence of a deed of endowment constituting	 theThakurdwara,  the  plaintiff sought to	establish  the	truescope  of the dedication from the user of the temple by	 thepublic.	  The witnesses examined on his behalf deposed	thatthe  villagers	were worshipping in the	 temple	 freely	 andwithout	 any  interference, and indeed, it was	even  statedthat  the  Thakurdwara	was  built by  Sheo  Ghulam  at	 theinstance  of  the villagers, as there was no temple  in	 thevillage.   The trial Judge did not discard this evidence  asunworthy of credence, but he held that the proper  inferenceto be drawn from the evidence of P.W. 2 was that the  publicwere  admitted into the temple not as a matter of right	 butas  a matter of grace.	P.W. 2 was a pujari in	the  temple,and be deposed that while Sheo Ghulam's wife was doing	pujawithin	the temple, he stopped outsiders in  whose  presenceshe  used to observe purdah, from going inside.	 We  are  ofopinion that this fact does not afford sufficient ground forthe  conclusion	 that the villagers did not worship  at	 thetemple as a matter of right.  It is nothing unusual even  inwell-known public temples for the puja hall being cleared ofthe public when a high dignitary comes for worship, and	 theact  of the pujari in stopping the public is  expression  ofthe regard which the entire villagers must have had for	 thewife  of the founder, who was a pardanashin lady,  when	 shecame in for worship, and cannot be construed as a denial  oftheir  rights.	The learned Judges of the Chief	 Court	alsorelied on the decision767of  the	 Privy	Council	 in Babu  Bhagwan  Din	v.  Gir	 HarSaroon(1)  as an authority for the position that  "the	merefact  that  the	 public	 is allowed to	visit  a  temple  orthakurdwara  cannot necessarily indicate that the  trust  ispublic	as  opposed  to private".   In	that  case,  certainproperties  were granted not in favour of an idol or  templebut  in	 favour	 of one Daryao Gir, who	 was  maintaining  atemple	and to his heirs in perpetuity.	 The  contention  ofthe  public was that subsequent to the grant, the family  ofDaryao Gir must be held to have dedicated the temple to	 thepublic	for  purpose of worship, and the  circumstance	thatmembers of the public were allowed to worship at the  templeand   make  offerings  was  relied  on	in  proof  of	suchdedication.  In repelling this contention, the Privy Councilobserved that as the grant was initially to an individual, aplea that it was subsequently dedicated by the family to thepublic required to be clearly made out, and it was not	madeout merely by showing that the public was allowed to worshipat  the temple "since it would not in general  be  consonantwith Hindu sentiments or practice that worshippers should beturned	away".	But, in the present case, the endowment	 wasin favour of the idol itself, and the point for decision is-whether	 it was a private or public endowment.	And in	suchcircumstances,	 proof	of  user  by  the   public   withoutinterference  would be cogent evidence that  the  dedicationwas  in	 favour	 of the public.	  In  Mundancheri  Koman  v.Achuthan(2),  which  was referred to and  followed  in	BabuBhagwan	 Din  v Gir Har Saroon(1), the	distinction  betweenuser in respect of an institution which is initially  provedto  have  been	private	 and  one  which  is  not,  is	thusexpressed:"Had there been any sufficient reason for holding that thesetemples	 and their endowment were originally  dedicated	 forthe  tarwad,  and so were private  trusts,  their  Lordshipswould  have  been  slow to hold that the  admission  of	 thepublic in later times possibly owing to altered	 conditions,would affect the private character of the trusts.  As it is,they are of(1) [1939] L.R. 67 I.A. 1.(2) [1984] L.R. 61 I.A. 405.768opinion	 that  the  learned Judges of the  High	 Court	werejustified  in presuming from the evidence as to public	userwhich  is all one way that the temples and  their  endowmentwere public religious trusts".We  are accordingly of opinion that the user of	 the  templesuch  as is established by the evidence is  more  consistentwith its being a public endowment.3.   It	 is  settled law that an endowment  can	 validly  becreated	 in  favour  of	 an  idol  or  temple  without	 theperformance  of	 any  particular  ceremonies,  provided	 thesettlor	  has  clearly	and  unambiguously   expressed	 hisintention   in	that  behalf.	Where  it  is  proved	thatceremonies  were performed, that would be valuable  evidenceof  endowment,	but  absence  of such  proof  would  not  beconclusive  against it.	 In the present case, it  is  commonground	 that  the  consecration  of  the  temple  and	 theinstallation  of  the idol of Sri Radhakrishnaji  were	madewith great solemnity and in accordance with the Sastras.  P.W. 10, who officiated as Acharya at the function has deposedthat  it lasted for seven days, and that all the  ceremoniescommencing  with  Kalasa Puja and ending  with	Sthapana  orPrathista   were  duly	performed  and	the  idols  of	 SriRadhakrishnaji, Sri Shivji and Sri Hanumanji were  installedas  ordained  in the Prathista Mayukha.	 Not much  turns  onthis  evidence, as the defendants admit both the  dedicationand the ceremonies, but dispute only that the dedication wasto the public.In the court below, the appellant raised the contention thatthe  performance  of Uthsarga ceremony at the  time  of	 theconsecration was conclusive to show that the dedication	 wasto   the  public,  and	that  as  P.  W.  10   stated	thatPrasadothsarga was performed, the endowment must be held  tobe  public.  The learned Judges considered that this  was  asubstantial question calling for an authoritative  decision,and  for  that reason granted a certificate  under  section,109(c)	of the Code of Civil Procedure.	 We  have  ourselvesread the Sanskrit texts bearing on this question, and we areof opinion that the contention of the appellant proceeds  ona  misapprehension.  The ceremonies relating  to  dedicationare Sankalpa, Uthsarga and Pra-769thista.	 Sankalpa means determination, and is really  formaldeclaration by the settlor of his intention to dedicate	 theproperty.   Uthsarga  is  the  formal  renunciation  by	 thefounder of his ownership in the property, the result whereofbeing that it becomes impressed with the trust for which  hededicates   it.	  Vide	The  Hindu  Law	 of  Religious	 andCharitable  Trust  by B. K. Mukherea, 1952 Edition,  p.	 36.The formulae to be adopted in Sankalpa and Uthsarga are	 setout  in Kane's History of Dharmasastras, Volume 11, p.	892.It will be seen therefrom that while the Sankalpa states theobjects for the realisation of which the dedication is made,it is the Uthsarga that in terms dedicates the properties tothe public (Sarvabhutebyah).  It would therefore follow thatif Uthsarga is proved to have been performed, the dedicationmust be held to have been to the public.  But the difficultyin  the	 way  of the appellant is  that	 the  formula  whichaccording  to  P. W.-IO was recited on the occasion  of	 thefoundation  was	 not Uthsarga but  Prasadoasarga,  which  issomething  totally  different. Prasada'	 is  the  'mandira',wherein the deity is placed before the final installation orPrathista takes placer' and the Prathista Mayukha prescribesthe  ceremonies that have to be performed when the  idol  isinstalled in the Prasada.  Prasadothsarga is the formula  tobe  used  on that occasion, and the text relating to  it  asgiven in the Mayukha runs as follows:It will be seen that this is merely the Sankalpa without theUthsarga,  and there are no words therein showing  that	 thededication  is	to  the public.	 Indeed,  according  to	 thetexts,	Uthsarga  is  to be performed  only  for  charitableendowments,  like construction of tanks, rearing of  gardensand  the  like, and not for religious  foundations.   It  isobserved  by Mr. Mandlik in the Vyavahara Mayukha, Part	 11,Appendix II, II,p. 339770that "there is no utsarga of a temple except in the case  ofrepair	of old temples".  In the, History of  Dharmasastras,Volume	II, Part II, p. 893, it is pointed out by  Mr.	Kanethat  in  the  case of temples the proper  word	 to  use  isPrathista  and	not Uthsarga.  Therefore,  the	question  ofinferring  a  dedication  to the public	 by  reason  of	 theperformance  of	 the Uthsarga ceremony cannot arise  in	 thecase of temples.  The appellant is correct in his contentionthat  if  Uthsarga  is performed the dedication	 is  to	 thepublic,	 but  the fallacy in his argument lies	in  equatingPrasadothsarga with Uthsarga.  But it is also clear from thetexts  that  Prathista	takes  the  place  of  Uthsarga	  indedication  of temples, and that there was Prathista of	 SriRadhakrishnaji	as spoken to by P.W. 10, is not in  dispute.In our opinion, this establishes that the dedication was  tothe public.(4)We may now refer to certain facts admitted or establishedin the evidence, which indicate that the endowment is to thepublic.	  Firstly,  there  is the fact	that  the  idol	 wasinstalled  not within the precincts of residential  quartersbut  in.  a  separate building	constructed  for  that	verypurpose	 on  a vacant site.  And as pointed out	 in  DelroosBanoo  Begum  v.  Nawab Syud Ashgur Ally Khan(1),  it  is  afactor	to  be	taken into account in  deciding	 whether  anendowment is private or public, whether the place of worshipis  located  inside a private house or	a  public  building.Secondly,  it  is  admitted  that  some	 of  the  idols	 arepermanently  installed	on  a  pedestal	 within	 the  templeprecincts.  That is more consistent with the endowment beingpublic	rather	than  private.	Thirdly,  the  puja  in	 the'temple	 is performed by an archaka appointed from  time  totime.	And  lastly,  there is the fact that  there  was  notemple in the village, and there is evidence on the side  ofthe plaintiff that the Thakurdwara was built at the instanceof the villagers for providing a place of worship for  them.This  evidence has not been considered by the courts  below,and  if it is true, that will be decisive to prove that	 theendowment is public.(1)  [1875] 16 Ben.  L.R. 167,186.771It  should  be observed in this connection that	 though	 theplaintiff  expressly pleaded that the temple  was  dedicated"for the worship of the general public", the first defendantin his written statement merely pleaded that the Thakurdwaraand  the  idols	 were 'private.	 He did not  aver  that	 thetemple	was  founded for the benefit of the members  of	 thefamily.	 At the trial, while the witnesses for the plaintiffdeposed	 that  the  temple  was built  with  the  object  ofproviding  a  place  of	 worship for  all  the	Hindus,	 thewitnesses  examined  by the defendants merely  deposed	thatSheo  Ghulam built the Thakurdwara for his own use and	"forhis puja only".	 The view of the lower court that the templemust  be taken to have been dedicated to the members of	 thefamily goes beyond the pleading, and is not supported by theevidence in the case.  Having considered all the aspects, weare of opinion that the Thakurdwara of Sri Radhakrishnaji inBhadesia is a public temple.In  the	 result, the appeal is allowed, the decrees  of	 thecourts	below  are set aside, and a declaration	 granted  interms  of  para	 17 (a) of the plaint.	The  costs  of	-theappellant  in  all  the courts will come out  of  the  trustproperties.   The first defendant will himself bear his	 owncosts throughout.Appeal allowed.100772