PETITIONER:DALIP SINGH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF PUNJAB.DATE OF JUDGMENT:28/07/1960BENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASBENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.HIDAYATULLAH, M.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1305 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1964 SC 600	 (48,49,50,71,105,146,148) D	    1967 SC1260	 (13) RF	    1970 SC 143	 (96) R	    1971 SC2151	 (13,19) R	    1976 SC1841	 (8) D	    1989 SC1843	 (16,17)ACT:State Service--Officer, compulsory retirement of--If amountsto  dismissal or removal from  service--Test--Patiala  StateRegulations,  1931,  Rule 278--Constitution of	India,	Art.311(2).HEADNOTE:The  appellant was compulsorily retired from service by	 theRajpramukh of Pepsu by an order dated August 18, 1950, whichwas as follows:His Highness the Rajpramukh is pleased to retire from89service	 Sardar Dalip Singh, Inspector General	of   Police,Pepsu (on leave) for administrative reasons with effect fromthe 18th August, 1950."No charges Were framed against him and it was on his insist-ence  that certain charges were communicated to	 him.	Rule278 of the Patiala State Regulations, 1931 which was then inforce, provided as follows :-" 278.	For all classes of pensions of person who desires toobtain	the  pension is required to submit  his	 applicationbefore any pension is granted to him.The State reserves to itself the right to retire any of	 itsemployees on pension on political or on other reasons."The question for determination in the appeal was whether thecompulsory  retirement of the appellant amounted to  removalor dismissal from service within the meaning of Art.  311(2)of the Constitution.  The trial Court held in favour of	 theappellant and the High Court against him,Held, that the two tests laid down by this Court for  deter-mining whether an order of compulsory retirement amounted toremoval or dismissal from service were (1) whether it was byway  of	 punishment,  a charge	or  imputation	against	 theofficer, being made the basis of the exercise of the  power,and  (2)  whether the officer was deprived  of	any  benefitalready earned as in a case of dismissal or removal.Shyamlal v. State of U. P., [1955] 1 S.C.R. 26 and State  ofBombay v. Subhagchand Doshi, [1958] S.C.R. 571, referred to.So judged, the order passed against the appellant could	 notamount	to  dismissal  or removal from	service	 within	 themeaning of Art. 311(2) of the Constitution.The  order  was not one purported to have been made  on	 anycharge	of misconduct or inefficient and the fact  that	 anysuch  considerations might have weighed with the  Governmentin  passing the order under Rule 278 did not amount  to	 anyimputation or charge against the officer, and there could beno  question  of losing any benefit earned  since  the	Ruleitself	provided for retirement on pension and	the  officerhad in fact been allowed full pension.It  would not be correct to say that since the Rule did	 notfix   any  age	for  compulsory	 retirement,  an  order	  ofcompulsory  retirement passed under it must  necessarily  beregarded as dismissal or removal within the meaning of	Art.311(2) of the Constitution.State of Bombay v. Subhagchand Doshi, [1958] S.C.R. 571, ex-plained.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 235 of 1958.1290Appeal	from the judgment and decree dated October  18,1956,of  the former PEPSU High Court in Regular First Appeal	 No.11  of	1954, arising out of the judgment and  decree  datedNovember  21,  1953,  of  the  Additional  District   Judge,Patiala.Gopal Singh and K. B. Krishnaswamy, for the appellant.N. S. Bindra and D. Gupta, for the respondent.1960.  July 28.	 The Judgment of the Court was delivered byDAS  GUPTA J.-The appellant Dalip Singh entered the  serviceof  the	 Patiala  State	 in 1916 and rose  to  the  rank  ofInspector  General  of	Police of the State  in	 June  1946.After the formation of the State of Pepsu he was absorbed inthe  Police  Service  of  the newly  formed  State  and	 wasappointed  and	confirmed  as Inspector	 General  of  Policethereof.  While holding that post he proceeded on leave fromOctober 18, 1949, till August 17, 1950.	 On August 18, 1950,an  order was made by the Rajpramukh of the State  in  thesewords:-"  His	Highness the Rajpramukh is pleased  to	retire	fromservice	 Sardar	 Dalip Singh, Inspector General	 of  Police,Pepsu (on leave) for administrative reasons with effect fromthe 18th August, 1950."A  copy	 of  this  order was  forwarded	 to  the  appellant.Thereupon  on  August 19, 1950, the appellant wrote  to	 theChief Secretary of the State stating that by his  retirementhe would be put to heavy loss, i.e., about Rs. 50,000  whichhe would have earned as his pay and allowances etc.,  duringthis period and that his pension was also being affected andthat  this  decision of the Government	tantamounts  to	 hisremoval	 from  service.	 He requested  that  the  Governmentshould	let  him  know the grounds which  had  impelled	 theGovernment   to	 take  this  decision  about  his   removal.Ultimately  on March 30, 1951, the Government mentioned	 thecharges against him on the basis of which the Government haddecided	 to  retire him on  administrative  grounds.   Afterservice of notice under91s.80 of the Code of Civil Procedure the appellant brought  asuit  in the Court of the District Judge,  Patiala,  againstthe State of Pepsu asking for a declaration that the  ordersof  August  16,	 1950, and August 18, 1950,  whereby  "	 theplaintiff  has	been  removed from the	post  of  Inspector-General	 of  Police, Pepsu, are	 unconstitutional,  illegal,void,  ultra  vires and inoperative and that  the  plaintiffstill  continues  to be in the service of the  defendant  asInspector  General of Police and is entitled to the  arrearsof his pay and allowances from August 18, 1950, and is	alsoentitled to continue to draw his pay and allowances till hisretirement  at the age of superannuation ; and a decree	 forthe  recovery of Rs. 26,699-130 and full costs of this	suitand future interest."The main plea on which the suit was based was that the orderof  August  18, 1950, amounted to his removal  from  servicewithin	the meaning of Art. 311(2) of the  Constitution	 andthe provisions of that article not having been complied withthe  termination of his service was void and inoperative  inlaw.  The respondent State contended that the plaintiff	 hadbeen  retired  from service and had not	 been  removed	fromservice	 and  so  Art.	311  of	 the  Constitution  had	  noapplication.   On this question the trial Court came to	 theconclusion   that  the	order  compulsorily   retiring	 theplaintiff amounted to his removal within the meaning of Art.311  of	 the  Constitution and as the  requirement  of	thatArticle	 had  not  been	 complied  with	 it  held  that	 thetermination  of service effected by that order was  void  inlaw.   The Court accordingly decreed the suit in  favour  ofthe  plaintiff declaring that the orders of  the  Governmentdated August 18, 1950, whereby the plaintiff had been  remo-ved from the post of Inspector General of Police, Pepsu, areunconstitutional,   illegal,  void  and	 ultra	 vires	 andinoperative and that the plaintiff still continued to be  inthe service of the defendant as Inspector General of  Policeand he his entitled to the arrears of his pay and allowancesfrom  August  18, 1950 and is also entitled to	continue  todraw his pay and allowance92till  his  retirement  at the age of  superannuation  and  adecree for the recovery of Rs. 26,699-13-0.On appeal by the State the Pepsu High Court disagreeing withthe Trial Court held that the order of compulsory retirementdid not amount to removal from service within the meaning ofArt.  311  of the Constitution and accordingly	allowed	 theappeal and dismissed the plaintiffs suit.The main contention of the plaintiff before us was that	 theorder  of retirement did amount to his removal from  servicewithin	the  meaning of Art. 311 of the	 Constitution.	 Thelearned	 counsel also wanted to argue that Rule 278  of	 thePatiala	  State	 Regulations  under  which  the	  Governmentapparently  made the order of compulsory retirement  was  nolonger	operative.   It	 appears  that	the  Patiala   StateRegulations  which  continued to govern the members  of	 theservices of that State after they became integrated into thePepsu State Services were revised from time to time.  It wassuggested  by the learned counsel that the revised rules  donot contain any rules similar to Rule 278.  Rule 278 of	 thePatiala State Regulations was in the following words:-" 278.	For all classes of pensions the pet-son who  desiresto obtain the pension is required to submit his	 applicationbefore any pension is granted to him.The State reserves to itself the right to retire any of	 itsemployees on pension on political or on other reasons."The  learned counsel though wanting to persuade us that	 theRule about the State reserving to itself the right to retireany  of	 its employees on pension on political or  on  otherreasons was not present in the new rules was unable to	showus  however that before August 18, 1950, there had been	 anyrevision  of  Rule 278.	 It appears that revised  rules	 forTravelling  Allowance were published in 1946 as Vol.  II  ofthe  new  ruler,; and Rules relating to pay  and  allowanceswere  published as Vol.	 I in 1947.  Thereafter in  1952  wefind that the first volume of the Pepsu Service	 Regulationsas  regards pay and leave rules was published.	In the	sameyear the third volume of the Pepsu State93Regulations  containing	 rules	relating  to  pensions	 waspublished.   In	 the  preface to this volume  we  find	thisstatement :-"  The	Revised	 Edition of the	 Patiala  State	 Regulationsrelating  to pay, allowances, leave, pension and  travellingallowance was published in the year 1931.  Subsequently	 thetravelling  allowance  rules  were  revised  and  issued  asPatiala	 Service  Regulations, Vol. II, in  the	 year  1946.Similarly the pay, allowances and leave rules were taken outfrom  the  Revised  Edition (1931) and	printed	 as  PatialaServices Regulations, Volume 1, in the year 1947.  The otherrules relating to pensions continued to remain in the Revis-ed  Edition  (1931)  and  kept upto date  by  the  issue  ofcorrection  slips.  On the formation of the Patiala  &	EastPunjab	States	Union  on 20-8-48,  these  rules  were	madeapplicable  to	the  entire  territories  of  the  Union  byOrdinance  No.	1  of 2005.  The number of  copies  of	thispublication available for official use had run out of  stockand  great  difficulty has been	 experienced  in  Governmentoffices	 for  want of it for reference.	 It  was.  thereforefound  necessary to revise and reprint this  publication  tomake it available to all offices."This  makes  it clear that upto the publication in  1952  ofVolume	III  of the Pepsu Service  Regulations	the  pensionrules  appearing  in the 1931 edition of the  Patiala  StateRegulations continued to be applicable to Pepsu.  On  August18,  1950, therefore it is reasonable to hold that Rule	 278in  its	 entirety remained in force and	 was  applicable  toPepsu.	 It  is	 interesting to mention that  in  this	1952edition	 also  this reservation by the Government of  the  "right to retire any of its employees on pension on politicalor  on other reasons " has been maintained (Vide Chapter  V,Rule  10).  The contention of the learned counsel that	Rule278  was  not  applicable to the case of  the  appellant  onAugust 18, 1950, is therefore totally without foundation.This  brings  us to the main contention in the	case.  viz.,that  the compulsory retirement of the appellant under	Rule278  of	 the Patiala State Regulations was  a  removal	fromservice within the meaning of Art. 311 of the  Constitution.The question whether the94termination   of   service  by	compulsory   retirement	  inaccordance with Service Rules amount to removal from servicewas considered by 'his Court in Shyamlal v. The State of  U.P. and the Union of India (1) and again recently in State ofBombay V. Subhagchand D08hi (2).  The Court decided in ShyamLal's  Case  (1)  that	two tests  had	to  be	applied	 forascertaining whether a termination of service by  compulsoryretirement amounted to removal or dismissal so as to attractthe  provisions of Art. 311 of the Constitution.  The  firstis  whether the action is by way of punishment and  to	findthat out the Court said that it was necessary that a  chargeor  imputation against the officer is made the condition  ofthe  exercise  of  the	power;	the  second  is	 whether  bycompulsory  retirement the officer is losing the benefit  hehas already. earned as he does by dismissal or removal.	  Inthat  case in fact a charge-sheet was drawn up	against	 theofficer	 and  an enquiry held but ultimately  the  order  ofcompulsory  retirement	was not based on the result  of	 theenquiry.  The Court pointed out that the enquiry was  merelyto help the Government to make up its mind as to whether  itwas in the public interest to dispense with his services  sothat  the imputation made in the charge-sheet was not  beingmade the condition of the exercise of the power.These tests were applied in Doshi's Case (2) and it was heldthat  the  provisions of compulsory  retirement	 under	Rule165.A of the Saurashtra Civil Service Rules under which	 theorder of retirement was made there was not violative of Art.311(2).	  It  was pointed out that "  while  misconduct	 andinefficiency  are factors that enter into the account  wherethe  order is one of dismissal or removal or of	 retirement,there  is  this	 difference  that  while  in  the  case	  ofretirement  they  merely  furnish  the	background  and	 theenquiry, if held-and there is no duty to hold an  enquiry-isonly  for  the satisfaction of the authorities who  have  totake action, in the case of dismissal or removal, they	formthe  very basis on which the order is made and	the  enquirythereon must be formal, and must satisfy(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 26.(2) [1958] S.C.R. 571.95the  rules of natural justice and the requirements  of	Art.311(2) ".In  the case before us the order of the Rajpramukh does	 notpurport	 to  be	 passed	 on  any  charge  of  misconduct  orinefficiency.	 All  it  states  is  that  the	  compulsoryretirement  is	for " administrative reasons." It  was	onlyafter the appellant's own insistence to be supplied with thegrounds which led to the decision that certain charges	werecommunicated to him.  There is therefore no basis for sayingthat  the  order of retirement contained any  imputation  orcharge against the officer.  The fact that considerations ofmisconduct  or inefficiency weighed with the  Government  incoming to its conclusion whether any action should be  takenunder  Rule 278 does not amount to any imputation or  chargeagainst the officer.Applying the other test, viz., whether the officer has	lostthe benefit he has earned, we find that the officer has beenallowed	 full pension.	There is no question of	 his  havinglost a benefit earned.	It may be pointed out that Rule	 278itself provides for retirement on pension.  If the provisionhad  been for retirement without pension in accordance	withthe rules there might have been some reason to hold that theretirement  was	 by  way  of  punishment.   As	however	 theretirement  can	 only be on pension in accordance  with	 therules-in  the present case full pension has been granted  tothe officer-the order of retirement is clearly not by way ofpunishment.In Doshi's Case (1) there is at p. 579 an observation  whichmight at first sight seem to suggest that in the opinion  ofthis Court compulsory retirement not amounting to  dismissalor removal could only take place under a rule fixing an	 agefor  compulsory retirement.  We do not think that  was	whatthe  Court intended to say in Doshi's Case(2).	 In  Doshi'sCase(3)	 there	was  in	 fact  a  rule	fixing	an  age	 forcompulsory  retirement,	 at the age of 55, and	in  additionanother rule for compulsory retirement after an officer	 hadcompleted  the age of 50 or 25 years of service.  It was  inthat context that the Court made the above(1)  [1958] S.C.R. 571.96observation.   It had not in that case to deal with  a	rulewhich  did  provide for compulsory retirement,	at  any	 agewhatsoever irrespective of the length of service put in.  Itwill not be proper to read the observations in D08hi's	Casereferred  to  above as laying down the law  that  retirementunder  the  rule  we are  considering  must  necessarily  beregarded as dismissal or removal within the meaning of	Art.311.We are therefore of opinion that the High Court was right inholding that the order of compulsory retirement made againstthe appellant was not removal from service so as to  attractthe provisions of Art. 311 of the Constitution and that	 thesuit was rightly dismissed.The appeal is accordingly dismissed with costs.				      Appeal dismissed.