PETITIONER:STATE OF BOMBAY	Vs.RESPONDENT:K. P. KRISHNAN AND OTHERS. (AND CONNECTED APPEAL)DATE OF JUDGMENT:18/04/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)KAPUR, J.L.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1223 CITATOR INFO : R	    1964 SC1617	 (6) RF	    1967 SC 295	 (60) RF	    1969 SC 707	 (50) R	    1975 SC2226	 (9) RF	    1975 SC2238	 (14) D	    1976 SC1474	 (8,10) E&R	    1985 SC 915	 (5) RF	    1990 SC 255	 (5)ACT:Industrial   Dispute-Failure  of   conciliation--AppropriateGovernment's Power of reference-Order of refusal-Reasons, ifmust be germane to the issue-Classification-Bonus-IndustrialDisputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), ss. 12(5), 10(1).HEADNOTE:Section 2(5) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947,  properlyconstrued,  does  not  by itself confer	 the  power  on	 theappropriate  Government to make a reference.  That power  isreally	contained  in  s. 10(i) of  the	 Act.	In  decidingwhether	 it should or should not make a reference  under  s.12(5)  of the Act the appropriate Government need  not	baseits  decision  solely  on the  report  of  the	conciliationofficer,  but is free to take into consideration  all  otherrelevant  facts and circumstances under s. 10(1), and  whereit  refused  to	 make a reference it must  record  and	com-municate  its  reasons therefore to the	 parties  concerned.Such  reasons, however, must be germane, and not  extraneousor irrelevant, to the dispute.But  in exercising such wide powers as are conferred  by  S.10(1),	the  appropriate  Government  must  act	 fairly	 andreasonably  and	 not  in a  punitive  spirit,  and  althoughconsiderations of expediency may not be wholly excluded,  itmust not be swayed by any extraneous considerations.Consequently, in a case where the issues in dispute  relatedto  a  claim of classification for specified  employees	 andadditional bonus and the sole ground on which the Governmentrefused to refer the dispute for adjudication under s. 12(5)was  that the employees had adopted go-slow  tactics  duringthe  relevant  year, although the company  had	neverthelessvoluntarily  paid three months' bonus for that year and	 thereport	of  the conciliation officer was in  favour  of	 theemployees,Held, that the Government acted on irrelevant considerationsand its decision being wholly punitive in character a  clearcase for the issue of a writ of mandamus was made out.Held,  further,	 that since the work done by  the  employeesprima  facie justified the claim for classification  and  itwas  in	 consonance with the practice  prevailing  in  othercomparable concerns, the misconduct of the respondents couldbe  no	ground for refusing reference as the  claim  was  inregard to the future benefit to the employees.228The  claim of bonus being also prima facie justified by	 theprofits	 earned during the relevant year in accordance	withwell	settled principles of industrial  adjudication,	 theorder of refusal was in the nature of a punitive action thatwas wholly inconsistent with the object of the Act.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 37 & 38  of1957.Appeals	 from the judgment and order dated August 30,  1955,of the former Bombay High Court in Appeals Nos. 55 and 56 of1955,  arising out of the judgment and order dated June	 23,1955, of the said High Court in Misc.  Application No. 80 of1955.C.  K.	Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India,  B.  GanapathyIyer and R. H. Dhebar, for the appellant (in C. A. No. 37 of57) and respondent No. 6 (in C. A. No.	38/57).S.  D. Vimadalal and I. N. Shroff, for the appellant (in  C.A. No. 38/57) and respondent No. 6 (in C. A. No. 37/57.)Rajni Patel, S. N. Andley, J. B. Dadachanji, Rameshwar	Nathand P. L. Vohra, for respondents Nos.1 and 3 to	 5 (in	boththe appeals).S. B. Naik and K. R. Chaudhuri, for respondent No. 2   (inboth the appeals).1960.	August 18.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyGAJENDRAGADKAR J.-These two appeals arise from an industrialdispute	 between the Firestone Tyre and Rubber Co. of  IndiaLtd.,  (hereafter  called  the	company)  and  its   workmen(hereafter  called the respondents), and they raise a  shortand interesting question about the construction of s.  12(5)of the Industrial Disputes Act 14 of 1947 (hereafter  calledthe  Act).  It appears that the respondents  addressed	fourdemands	 to the company; they were in respect  of  gratuity,holidays,  classification of certain employees and  for	 thepayment	 of  an unconditional bonus for the  financial	yearended  October	31,  1953.   The  respondents'	union	alsoaddressed  the	Assistant Commissioner	of  Labour,  Bombay,forwarding to him a229copy  of the said demands, and intimating to him that  sincethe company had not recognised the respondents' union  therewas no hope of any direct negotiations between the union andthe  company.  The Assistant Commissioner of Labour, who  isalso  the conciliation officer, was therefore  requested  tocommence  the  conciliation proceedings at  an	early  date.Soon  thereafter the company declared a bonus equivalent  to1/4  of	 the  basic  earnings  for  the	 year  195253.	 Therespondents  then  informed  the  company  that	 they	wereentitled to a much higher bonus having regard to the profitsmade  by the company during the relevant year and that	theyhad  decided  to  accept the bonus offered  by	the  companywithout prejudice to the demand already submitted by them inthat  behalf.  After holding a preliminary  discussion	withthe  parties  the  conciliation officer	 examined  the	fourdemands	  made	 by  the  respondents  and   admitted	intoconciliation only two of them ; they were in respect of	 theclassification	of certain employees and the bonus  for	 theyear 1952-53; the two remaining demands were not admitted inconciliation.  The conciliation proceedings initiated by theconciliator,  however,	proved infructuous with	 the  resultthat  on  July	5, 1954, the conciliator  made	his  failurereport	under  s.  12(4)  of the Act.	In  his	 report	 theconciliator  has  set out the arguments urged  by  both	 theparties before him in respect of both the items of  dispute.In  regard  to the respondents' claim for bonus	 the  conci-liator	made  certain  suggestions to the  company  but	 thecompany	 did  not accept them, and so it became	 clear	thatthere  was no possibility of reaching a settlement  on	thatissue.	 Incidentally  the  conciliator	 observed  that	  itappeared to him that there was considerable substance in thecase  made out by the respondents for payment of  additionalbonus.	 The  conciliator also dealt with  the	respondents'demand	for  classification and expressed his  opinion	thathaving	regard to the type and nature of the work which	 wasdone  by  the workmen in question it seemed clear  that	 thesaid  work  was mainly of a clerical nature and	 the  demandthat the said workmen should be230taken on the monthly-paid roll appeared to be in  consonancewith  the practice prevailing in other comparable  concerns.The management, however, told the conciliator that the	saidemployees  had	received  very liberal	increments  and	 hadreached	 the maximum of their scales and so  the  managementsaw  no reason to accede to the demand	for  classification.On receipt of this report the Government of Bombay (now	 theGovernment of Maharashtra) considered the matter and came tothe  conclusion that the dispute in question should  not  bereferred  to  an industrial tribunal for  its  adjudication.Accordingly,  as required by s. 12(5) on December 11,  1954,the  Government	 communicated to the  respondents  the	saiddecision  and stated that it does not propose to  refer	 thesaid dispute to the tribunal under s. 12(5) " for the reasonthat the workmen resorted to go slow during the year  195253".  It is this decision of the Government refusing to  referthe dispute for industrial adjudication that has given	riseto the present proceedings.On  February 18, 1955, the respondents filed in	 the  BombayHigh  Court  a petition under Art. 226 of  the	Constitutionpraying for the issue of a writ of mandamus or a writ in thenature of mandamus or other writ, direction or order againstthe  State of Maharashtra (hereafter called  the  appellant)calling	 upon  it to refer the said dispute  for  industrialadjudication  under  s. 10(1) and s. 12(5) of the  Act.	  Tothis application the company was also impleaded as an oppon-ent.   This petition was heard by Tendolkar J. He held	thats. 12(5) in substance imposed an obligation on the appellantto  refer the dispute provided it was satisfied that a	casefor  reference had been made, and he came to the  conclusionthat the reason given by the appellant for refusing to	makea  reference  was so extraneous that  the  respondents	wereentitled  to  a	 writ of  mandamus  against  the  appellant.Accordingly he directed that a mandamus shall issue  againstthe  appellant	to  reconsider the  question  of  making  orrefusing  to  make a reference under s. 12(5)  ignoring	 thefact that there was a slow-down and taking into account onlysuch reasons as are germane to the231question of determining whether a reference should or shouldnot be made.Against	 this decision the appellant as well as the  companypreferred  appeals.   Chagla,  C. J.,  and  Desai,  J.,	 whoconstituted the Court of Appeal, allowed the two appeals  tobe  consolidated,  heard  them	together  and  came  to	 theconclusion  that the view( taken by Tendolkar J.  was  rightand  that  the	writ of mandamus had  been  properly  issuedagainst	 the appellant.	 The appellant and the company	thenapplied	 for and obtained a certificate from the High  Courtand  with that certificate they have come to this  Court  bytheir  two  appeals Nos. 37 and 38 of 1957.   These  appealshave  been  ordered to be consolidated and have	 been  heardtogether,  and	both of them raise the	question  about	 theconstruction of s. 12(5) of the Act.Before dealing with the said question it would be convenientto  state one more relevant fact.  It is common ground	thatduring	a  part	 of the relevant year  the  respondents	 hadadopted	 go-slow  tactics.   According to  the	company	 theperiod	 of  go-slow  attitude	was  seven  months   whereasaccording  to the respondents it was about five months.	  Itis  admitted that under cl. 23(c) of the standing orders  ofthe company willful slowing down in performance of work,  orabatement,  or instigation thereof, amounts  to	 misconduct,and it is not denied that as a result of the go-slow tacticsadopted	 by  the respondents disciplinary action  was  takenagainst	 58  workmen employed by the company.	The  respon-dents' case is that despite the go-slow strategy adopted  bythem  for  some months during the relevant  year  the  totalproduction for the said period compares very favorably	withthe  production for previous years and that the profit	madeby  the	 company during the relevant  year  fully  justifiestheir  claim for additional bonus.  The appellant has  takenthe  view  that	 because  the  respondents  adopted  go-slowstrategy  during  the relevant year the	 industrial  disputeraised by them in regard to bonus as well as  classificationwas not to be referred for adjudication under s. 12(5).	  Itis  in	the light of these facts that we  have	to  considerwhether232the  validity of the order passed by the appellant  refusingto refer the dispute for adjudication under s. 12(5) can  besustained.Let  us first examine the scheme of the relevant  provisionsof  the Act.  Chapter III which consists of ss. 10  and	 10Adeals  with  reference	of  dispute  to	 Boards,  Courts  orTribunals.    Section	10(1)  provides	  that	 where	 theappropriate  Government	 is of opinion that  any  industrialdispute	 exists	 or is apprehended, it may at  any  time  byorder  in  writing  refer the dispute to one  or  the  otherauthority specified in cls. (a) to (d).	 This section is  ofbasic  importance in the scheme of the Act.  It	 shows	thatthe  main  object  of the Act is to provide  for  cheap	 andexpeditious  machinery	for the decision of  all  industrialdisputes  by referring them to adjudication, and thus  avoidindustrial  conflict resulting from frequent  lock-outs	 andstrikes.   It  is with that object that	 reference  is	con-templated not only in regard to existing industrial disputesbut  also in respect of disputes which may  be	apprehended.This  section confers wide and even absolute  discretion  onthe  Government	 either to refer or to refuse  to  refer  anindustrial dispute as therein provided.	 Naturally this widediscretion  has to be exercised by the Government bona	fideand on a consideration of relevant and material facts.	 Thesecond proviso to s. 10(1) deals with disputes relating to apublic utility service, and it provides that where a  noticeunder s. 22 has been given in respect of such a dispute	 theappropriate  Government shall, unless it considers that	 thenotice has been frivolously or vexatiously given or that  itwould  be inexpedient so to do, make a reference under	thissub-section notwithstanding that any other proceedings underthis  Act in respect of the dispute may have commenced.	  Itis  thus  clear that in regard to cases falling	 under	thisproviso an obligation is imposed on the Government to  referthe dispute unless of course it is satisfied that the noticeis   frivolous	or  vexatious  or  that	 considerations	  ofexpediency  required  that a reference should not  be  made.This proviso also makes it clear that reference can be	madeeven if other proceedings under the Act233have  already  commenced  in respect of	 the  same  dispute.Thus, so far as discretion of the Government to exercise itspower of referring an industrial dispute is concerned it  isvery  wide  under s. 10(1) but is limited under	 the  secondproviso to s. 10(1).  Section 10(2) deals with a case  wherethe Government has to refer an industrial dispute and has nodiscretion   in	 the  matter.	Where  the  parties  to	  anindustrial  dispute  apply in the prescribed  manner  eitherjointly or separately for a reference of the dispute betweenthem  the Government has to refer the said dispute if it  issatisfied  that the persons applying represent the  majorityof  each party.	 Thus, in dealing with this class  of  casesthe  only point on which the Government has to be  satisfiedis that the persons applying represent the majority of	eachparty  ; once that test is satisfied the Government  has  nooption	but to make a reference as required by the  parties.Similarly s. 10A deals with cases where the employer and hisworkmen	 agree	to refer the dispute to arbitration  at	 anytime  before the dispute has been referred under s. 10,	 andit  provides  that they may so refer it to  such  person  orpersons	 as may be specified in the  arbitration  agreement;and s. 10A(3) requires that on receiving such an arbitrationagreement  the	Government  shall,  within  fourteen   days,publish	 the same in the official Gazette.   Section  10A(4)prescribes   that  the	arbitrator  or	 arbitrators   shallinvestigate the dispute and submit the arbitration award  tothe appropriate Government; and s. 10A(5) provides that sucharbitrations are outside-the Arbitration Act.  Thus cases ofvoluntary  reference of disputes to arbitration are  outsidethe  scope  of any discretion in the  Government.   That  inbrief  is  the position of the discretionary  power  of	 theGovernment  to refer industrial disputes to the	 appropriateauthorities under the Act.The   appropriate   authorities	 under	the  Act   are	 theconciliator,  the  Board, Court of Enquiry,  Labour  Court')Tribunal  and National Tribunal.  Section 11(3)	 confers  onthe  Board,  Court of Enquiry, Labour  Court,  Tribunal	 andNational Tribunal all, the powers    30234as  are	 vested	 in  a civil court when	 trying	 a  suit  inrespect	 of  the matters specified by cls. (a)	to  (d).   Aconciliation   officer,	 however,  stands  on  a   differentfooting.   Under s. 11(4) he is given the power to call	 forand  inspect  any relevant document and has been  given	 thesame  powers  as are vested in civil courts  in	 respect  ofCompelling the production of documents.Section	 12 deals with the duties of conciliation  officers.Under	s.   12(1)  the	 conciliation	officer	  may	holdconciliation  proceedings in the prescribed manner where  anindustrial  dispute exists or is apprehended.  In regard  toan industrial dispute relating to a public utility  service,where  notice under s. 22 has been given,  the	conciliationofficer	 shall hold conciliation proceedings in	 respect  ofit.  The effect of s. 12(1) is that, whereas in regard to anindustrial dispute not relating to a public utility  servicethe  conciliation officer is given the discretion either  tohold conciliation proceedings or not, in regard to a disputein  respect  of a public utility service, where	 notice	 hasbeen given, he has no discretion but must hold	conciliationproceedings  in	 regard to it.	Section 12(2)  requires	 theconciliation  officer  to investigate  the  dispute  withoutdelay  with the object of bringing about a  settlement,	 andduring	the course of his investigation he may	examine	 allmatters affecting the merits and the right settlement of thedispute	 and  do all such things as he thinks  fit  for	 thepurpose	 of  inducing  the parties to come  to	a  fair	 andamicable   settlement.	 The  duty  and	 function   of	 theconciliation  officer  is  as his very	name  indicates,  tomediate	  between  the	parties	 and  make  an	 effort	  atconciliation so as to persuade them to settle their disputesamicably  between themselves.  If the  conciliation  officersucceeds  in his mediation s. 12(3) requires him to  make  areport	of such settlement together with the  memorandum  ofthe  settlement	 signed	 by  the  parties  to  the  dispute.Section	 18(3) provides that a settlement arrived at in	 thecourse	of conciliation proceedings shall be binding on	 theparties	 specified therein.  It would thus be seen  that  ifthe attempts made by the conciliation officer to induce	 theparties to come to a settlement succeeds and a settlement issigned by them235it  has in substance the same binding character as an  awardunder  s. 18(3).  Sometimes efforts at conciliation  do	 notsucceed	 either	 because one of the parties to	the  disputerefuses	 to co-operate or they do not agree as to the  termsof  settlement.	 In such cases the conciliation officer	 hasto  send his report to the appropriate Government  under  s.12(4).	 This report  must set forth the steps taken  by theofficer	  for  ascertaining  the  facts	 and   circumstancesrelating to the dispute and for bringing about a  settlementthereof	 together  with a full statement of such  facts	 andcircumstances  and  the reasons on account of which  in	 hisopinion a settlement could not be arrived at.  The object ofrequiring  the conciliation officer to make such a full	 anddetailed  report  is to apprise the Government	of  all	 therelevant facts including the reasons for the failure of	 theconciliation  officer  so  that the  Government	 may  be  inpossession  of the relevant material on which it can  decidewhat  course  to  adopt under s. 12(5).	  In  construing  s.12(5),	therefore,  it	is necessary to	 bear  in  mind	 thebackground  of the steps which the conciliation officer	 hastaken  under s. 12(1) to (4).  The conciliation officer	 hasheld conciliation proceedings, has investigated the  matter,attempted to mediate, failed in his effort to bring about  asettlement  between  the parties, and has made	a  full	 anddetailed report in regard to his enquiry and his conclusionsas to the reasons on account of which a settlement could notbe arrived at.Section	 12(5)	with which we are concerned in	the  presentappeals	 provides that if, on a consideration of the  reportreferred to in subsection (4), the appropriate Government issatisfied  that	 there is a case for reference to  a  Board,Labour	Court,	Tribunal or National Tribunal, it  may	makesuch  reference.  Where the appropriate Government does	 notmake such a reference it shall record and communicate to theparties	 concerned  its	 reasons  therefore.   This  sectionrequires  the appropriate Government to consider the  reportand  decide whether a case for reference has been made	out.If the Government is satisfied that a case for reference hasbeen made out it may make such236reference.  If it is satisfied that a case for reference hasnot  been made out it may not make such a reference; but  insuch  a case it shall record and communicate to the  partiesconcerned its reasons for not making the reference which  inthe  context means its reasons for not being satisfied	thatthere is a case for reference.	The High Court has held thatthe  word  "  may  in the first part of	 s.  12(5)  must  beconstrued to mean shall " having regard to the fact that thepower  conferred  on  the Government by the  first  part  iscoupled with a duty imposed upon it by the second part.	 Theappellant  and	the company both contend that this  view  iserroneous.   According to them the requirement that  reasonsshall  be recorded and communicated to the parties  for	 notmaking	a reference does not convert " may " into " shall  "and that the discretion vesting in the Government either  tomake a reference or not to make it is as wide as it is unders. 10(1) of the Act.  Indeed their contention is that,	evenafter  receiving  the report, if the Government	 decides  tomake a reference it must act under s. 10(1) for that is	 theonly   section	which  confers	power  on  the	 appropriateGovernment to make a reference.It  is	true  that s. 12(5) provides  that  the	 appropriateGovernment may make such reference and in that sense it	 maybe  permissible	 to say that a power to	 make  reference  isconferred  on the appropriate Government by s.	12(5).	 TheHigh Court was apparently inclined to take the view that  incases  falling	under s. 12(5) reference can  be  made	onlyunder  s. 12(5) independently of s. 10(1).  In	our  opinionthat is not the effect of the provisions of s. 12(5).  If itis  held that in cases falling under s. 12(5) reference	 canand should be made only under s. 12(5) it would lead to veryanomalous   consequences.    Section  10(3)   empowers	 theappropriate   Government  by  an  order	 to   prohibit	 thecontinuance of any strike or lock-out in connection with  anindustrial dispute which may be in existence on the date  ofthe  reference,	 but this power is confined  only  to  caseswhere  industrial disputes are referred under s. 10(1).	  Itwould  thus be clear that if a reference is made only  unders. 12(5) independently of237s.10(1)	 the  appropriate Government may have  no  power  toprohibit  the continuance of a strike in connection  with  adispute	 referred by it to the tribunal for  adjudication  ;and  that  obviously  could  not be  the  intention  of	 theLegislature.  It is significant that ss. 23 and 24  prohibitthe  commencement  of  strikes	and  lock-outs	during	 thependency of proceedings there-' in specified, and so even inthe case of a reference made under s. 12(5) it would not  beopen  to  the  employer to declare a  lock-out	or  for	 theworkmen to go on strike after such a reference is made ; butif  a strike has commenced or a lock-out has  been  declaredbefore such a reference is made, there would be no power  inthe  appropriate Government to prohibit the  continuance  ofsuch  a strike or such a lock-out.  Section 24(2)  makes  itclear that the continuance of a lock-out or strike is deemedto  be	illegal only if an order prohibiting  it  is  passedunder s. 10(3).	 Thus the power to maintain industrial peaceduring	adjudication proceedings which is so  essential	 andwhich  in fact can be said to be the basis  of	adjudicationproceedings is exercisable only if a reference is made unders.  10(1).   What is true about this power is  equally	trueabout  the power conferred on the appropriate Government  bys.  10(4), (5), (6) and (7).  In other words,  the  materialprovisions contained in sub-ss. (3) to (7) of s. 10(1) whichare  an integral Dart of the scheme of reference  prescribedby Chapter III of the Act clearly indicate that even if	 theappropriate  Government	 may be acting under  s.  12(5)	 thereference   must   ultimately  be  made	 under	 s.   10(1).Incidentally it is not without significance that even in thepetition made by the respondents in the present	 proceedingsthey  have  asked for a writ of mandamus  calling  upon	 theappellant to make a reference under ss. 10(1) and 12(5).Besides,  even	as a matter of construction, when  s.  12(5)provides  that	the  appropriate Government  may  make	suchreference  it does not mean that this provision is  intendedto confer a power to make reference as such.  That power hasalready	 been conferred by s. 10(1); indeed s. 12(5)  occursin  a Chapter dealing with the procedure, powers and  dutiesof the238authorities  under  the Act; and it would be  legitimate  tohold  that s. 12(5) which undoubtedly confers power  on	 theappropriate Government to act in the manner specified by it,the  power to make a reference which it will exercise if  itcomes  to the conclusion that a case for reference has	beenmade  must  be found in s. 10(1).  In other words,  when  s.12(5)  says that the Government may make such  reference  itreally	means  it may make such reference under s.  10	(1).Therefore  it would not be reasonable to hold that s.  12(5)by itself and independently of s. 10(1) confers power on theappropriate Government to make a reference.The next point to consider is whether, while the appropriateGovernment  acts  under s. 12(5), it is bound  to  base	 itsdecision  only and solely on a consideration of	 the  reportmade by the conciliation officer under s. 12(4).  The  tenorof  the High Court's judgment may seem to suggest  that	 theonly  material	on which the conclusion of  the	 appropriateGovernment  under  s.  12(5) should be	based  is  the	saidreport.	  There is no doubt that having regard to the  back-ground	furnished  by the earlier provisions of	 s.  12	 theappropriate  Government would naturally consider the  reportvery  carefully	 and  treat it as  furnishing  the  relevantmaterial which would enable it to decide whether a case	 forreference has been made or not; but the words of s. 12(5) donot  suggest that the report is the only material  on  whichGovernment  must base its conclusion.  It would be  open  tothe  Government to consider other relevant facts  which	 maycome to its knowledge or which may be brought to its notice,and  it is in the light of all these relevant facts that  ithas  to come to its decision whether a reference  should  bemade  or  not.	 The problem which  the	 Government  has  toconsider while acting under s. 12(5)(a) is whether there  isa case for reference.  This expression means that Governmentmust first consider whether a prima facie case for referencehas been made on the merits.  If the Government comes to theconclusion  that a prima facie case for reference  has	beenmade  then it would be open to the Government also  to	con-sider whether there are any other relevant or material239facts  which would justify its refusal to make a  reference.The  question  as to whether a case for reference  has	beenmade  out can be answered in the light of all  the  relevantcircumstances  which would have a bearing on the  merits  ofthe case as well as on the incidental question as to whethera   reference  should  nevertheless  be	 made  or  not.	   Adiscretion to consider all relevant facts which is conferredon  the	 Government by s. 10(1) could be  exercised  by	 theGovernment even in dealing with cases under s. 12(5) provid-ed of course the said discretion is exercised bona fide, itsfinal decision is based on a consideration of relevant factsand  circumstances,  and  the second part  of  s.  12(5)  iscomplied with.We   have  already  noticed  that  s.  12  deals  with	 theconciliation  proceedings in regard to all  industrial	dis-putes,	whether they relate to a public utility	 service  ornot.   Section	12(1)  imposes an  obligation  on  the	con-ciliation officer to hold conciliation proceedings in regardto  an	industrial  dispute in	respect	 of  public  utilityservice provided a notice under s. 22 has been given.  If insuch  a	 dispute  the efforts at  conciliation	fail  and  afailure	 report is submitted under s. 12(4)  Government	 mayhave  to  act under s. 12(5) and decide whether there  is  acase  for reference.  Now, in dealing with such	 a  questionrelating   to  a  public  utility   service   considerationsprescribed  by	the  second  proviso  to  s.  10(1)  may  berelevant,  and	Government may be justified in	refusing  tomake a reference if it is satisfied that the notice given isfrivolous   or	 vexatious  or	that  reference	  would	  beinexpedient.  Just as discretion conferred on the Governmentunder  s.  10(1)  can be exercised by  it  in  dealing	withindustrial disputes in regard to non-public utility serviceseven  when Government is acting under s. 12(5), so  too	 theprovisions of the second proviso can be pressed into serviceby  the Government when it deals with an industrial  disputein regard to a public utility service under s. 12(5).It  would, therefore, follow that on receiving	the  failurereport	from  the  conciliation	 officer  Government   wouldconsider the report and other relevant material240and decide whether there is & case for reference.  If it  issatisfied  that	 there is such & case for reference  it	 maymake a reference.  If it does not make a reference it  shallrecord and communicate to the parties concerned its  reasonstherefore.   The  question  which &rises at  this  stage  iswhether	 the word " may " used in the context means "  shall",  or	whether	 it means nothing more than "  may  "  whichindicates that the discretion is in the Government either torefer or not to refer.It is urged for the respondent that where power is conferredon an authority and it is coupled with the performance of  &duty  the  words conferring power though directory  must  beconstrued  as  mandatory.   As	Mr.  Justice  Coleridge	 hasobserved  in Beg. v. Tithe Commissioners (1).  "  The  wordsundoubtedly  are only empowering; but it has been  so  oftendecided	 as  to	 have  become  an  axiom,  that,  in  publicstatutes,  words only directory, permissory or enabling	 mayhave  & compulsory force where the thing to be done  is	 forthe  public benefit or in advancement of public	 justice  ".The  argument  is that s. 12(5) makes it obligatory  on	 theGovernment  to	record and communicate its reasons  for	 notmaking	the  reference and this obligation  shows  that	 thepower to make reference is intended to be exercised for	 thebenefit of the party which raises an industrial dispute	 andwants  it to be referred to the authority for decision.	  Itmay  be that the Legislature intended that this	 requirementwould  avoid  casual or capricious decisions in	 the  matterbecause	  the	recording  and	communication	of   reasonspostulates  that the reasons in question must  stand  publicexamination  and scrutiny and would therefore be of  such  acharacter as would show that the question was carefully	 andproperly  considered by the Government; but that is not	 theonly  object in making this provision.	The other object  isto  indicate  that an obligation or duty is  cast  upon	 theGovernment, and since the power conferred by the first	partis coupled with the duty prescribed by the second part " may" in the context must mean " shall ". There is	considerableforce in(1) (1849) 14 Q.B. 459, 474 : 117 E.R. 179, 185.241this  argument.	  Indeed it has been accepted  by  the	HighCourt  and  it	has  been held that  if	 the  Government  issatisfied that there is a case for reference it is bound  tomake the reference.On  the	 other	hand,  if the power  to	 make  reference  isultimately  to be found in s. 10(1) it would not be easy  toread  the  relevant  portion  of s.  12(5)  as	imposing  anobligation  on the Government to make a reference.   Section12(5)  when read with s. 10(1) would mean, according to	 theappellant,  that, even after considering the  question,	 theGovernment  may refuse to make a reference in a proper	caseprovided  of course it records and communicates its  reasonsfor  its final decision.  In this connection  the  appellantstrongly  relies on the relevant provisions of s. 13.	Thissection deals with the duties of Boards and is similar to s.12 which deals with conciliation officers.  A dispute can bereferred to a Board in the first instance under s. 10(1)  orunder  s. 12(5) itself.	 Like the conciliation	officer	 theBoard  also  endeavours to bring about a settlement  of	 thedispute.   Its powers are wider than those of a	 conciliatorbut  its function is substantially the same; and so  if	 theefforts made by the Board to settle the dispute fail it	 hasto  make  a report under s. 13(3).  Section  13(4)  providesthat  if  on  receipt of the report made  by  the  Board  inrespect	 of a dispute relating to a public  utility  servicethe  appropriate Government does not make a reference  to  aLabour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal under s. 10,  itshall  record and communicate to the parties  concerned	 itsreasons therefore.  The provisions of s. 13 considered as  awhole clearly indicate that the power to make a reference inregard to disputes referred to the Board are undoubtedly  tobe found in s. 10(1).  Indeed in regard to disputes relatingto non-public utility services there is no express provisionmade  authorising  the Government to make a  reference,	 andeven  s. 13(4) deals with a case where no reference is	madein regard to a dispute relating to a public utility  servicewhich  means that if a reference is intended to be  made  itwould be under the second proviso to s. 10(1).	Incidentallythis fortifies the conclusion that whenever    31242reference is made the power to make it is to be found  unders.  10(1).  Now, in regard to cases falling under  s.  13(4)since the reference has to be made under s. 10 there can  beno  doubt that the considerations relevant under the  secondproviso	 to  s. 10(1) would be relevant and  Government	 maywell justify their refusal to make a reference on one or theother  of  the	grounds	 specified  in	the  said   proviso.Besides,  in  regard to disputes other	than  those  fallingunder  s.  13(4)  if a reference has to be  made,  it  wouldclearly be under s. 10(1).  This position is implicit in thescheme	of s. 13.  The result, therefore, would be  that  inregard	to  a dispute like the present it would be  open  toGovernment  to	refer the said dispute under s. 12(5)  to  aBoard,,	 and if the Board fails to bring about a  settlementbetween	 the parties Government would be entitled either  torefer or to refuse to refer the said dispute for  industrialadjudication under s. 10(1).  There can be no doubt that  ifa  reference has to be made in regard to a dispute  referredto a Board under s. 13 s. 10(1) would apply, and there wouldbe no question of importing any compulsion or obligation  onthe  Government	 to make a reference.  Now, if that  be	 thetrue  position	under the relevant provisions of  s.  13  itwould be difficult to accept the argument that a prior stagewhen Government is acting under s. 12(5) it is obligatory onit to make a reference as contended by the respondent.The  controversy between the parties as to the	constructionof  s. 12(5), is, however, only of academic importance.	  Onthe  respondents'  argument,  even if it  is  obligatory  onGovernment to make a reference provided it is satisfied thatthere is a case for reference, in deciding whether or not  acase  for reference is made Government would be entitled  toconsider  all relevant facts, and if on a  consideration  ofall  the relevant facts it is not satisfied that there is  acase  for reference it may well refuse to make	a  referenceand record and communicate its reasons therefore.  Accordingto the appellant and the company also though the  discretionis  with Government its refusal to make a reference  can  bejustified  only if it records and communicates	its  reasonstherefore and it appears that the243said  reasons are not wholly extraneous or  irrelevant.	  Inother words, though there may be a difference of emphasis inthe  two  methods  of approach adopted	by  the	 parties  ininterpreting  s.  12(5) ultimately both of them	 are  agreedthat  if  in  refusing to make	a  reference  Government  isinfluenced  by	reasons	 which	are  wholly  extraneous	  orirrelevant or which are not germane then its decision may beopen  to challenge in a court of law.  It would thus  appearthat even the appellant and the Company do not dispute	thatif  a consideration of all the relevant and germane  factorsleads the Government to the conclusion that there is a	casefor   reference	 the  Government  must	refer  though	theyemphasise   that   the	 scope	and   extent   of   relevantconsideration  is  very wide; in substance the plea  of	 therespondents  that  " may " must mean " shall " in  s.  12(5)leads  to  the same result.  Therefore both the	 methods  ofapproach  ultimately lead to the same crucial enquiry :	 arethe  reasons  recorded and communicated	 by  the  Governmentunder s.  12(5) germane and relevant or not ?It  is	common	ground that a writ  of	mandamus  would	 lieagainst	 the Government if the order passed by it  under  s.10(1)  is  for	instance contrary to the  provisions  of  s.10(1)(a)  to (d) in the matter of selecting the	 appropriateauthority  ;  it is also common ground that in	refusing  tomake  a	 reference  under s. 12(5) if  Government  does	 notrecord and communicate to the parties concerned its  reasonstherefore a writ of mandamus would lie.	 Similarly it is notdisputed that if a party can show that the refusal to  refera dispute is not bona fide or is based on a consideration ofwholly irrelevant facts and circumstances a writ of mandamuswould  lie.   The order passed by the  Government  under  s.12(5)  may  be	an  administrative  order  and	the  reasonsrecorded  by  it may not be justiciable in  the	 sense	thattheir propriety, adequacy or satisfactory character may	 notbe  open  to judicial scrutiny ; in that sense it  would  becorrect	 to  say  that	the court  hearing  a  petition	 formandamus  is not sitting in appeal over the decision of	 theGovernment : nevertheless if the court is satisfied that thereasons given244by  the	 Government  for refusing to make  a  reference	 areextraneous  and	 not germane then the court can	 issue,	 andwould  be justified in issuing, a writ of mandamus  even  inrespect of such an administrative order.  After an elaborateargument on the construction of s. 12(5) was addressed to usit  became clear that on this part of the case there was  noserious	 dispute between the parties.  That is why we  thinkthe controversy as to the construction of s. 12(5) is of  nomore than academic importance.That  takes  us	 to the real point of  dispute	between	 theparties,  and  that  is	 whether the  reason  given  by	 theappellant  in  the  present  case for  refusing	 to  make  areference  is germane or not.  The High Court has held	thatit is wholly extraneous and it has issued a writ of mandamusagainst	 the appellant.	 We have already seen that the	onlyreason	given by the appellant is that the workmen  resortedto  go slow during the year 1952-53.  It would appear  primafacie  from the communication addressed by the appellant  tothe respondents that this was the only reason which  weighedwith the Government in declining to refer the dispute  unders.  12(5).  It has been strenuously urged before us  by	 theappellant  and	the  company that it is	 competent  for	 theGovernment  to	consider whether it would  be  expedient  torefer a dispute of this kind for adjudication.	The argumentis that the object of the Act is not only to make  provisionfor investigation and settlement of industrial disputes	 butalso to secure industrial peace so that it may lead to	moreproduction and help national economy.  Co-operation  betweencapital	 and labour as well as sympathetic understanding  onthe part of capital and discipline on the part of labour areessential  for achieving the main object of the Act; and  soit  would not be right to assume that the Act requires	thatevery  dispute	must necessarily be referred  to  industrialadjudication.	It  may be open to Government to  take	intoaccount	 the  facts  that the  respondents  showed  lack  ofdiscipline  in	adopting go-slow tactics,  and	since  theirconduct	 during	 a  substantial part of	 the  relevant	yearoffended against the standing orders that was a fact which245was  relevant  in Considering whether  the  present  disputeshould	be referred to industrial adjudication or  not.	  Onthe  other  hand, the High Court has held  that	 the  reasongiven by the Government is wholly extraneous and its refusalto refer the dispute is plainly punitive in character and assuch is based on considerations which are not at all germaneto   s.	 12(5).6  This	Court  has  always   expressed	 itsdisapproval of breaches of law either by the employer or  bythe  employees, and has emphasised that while the  employeesmay  be entitled to agitate for their legitimate  claims  itwould be wholly wrong on their part to take recourse to	 anyaction	which  is  prohibited  by  the	standing  orders  orstatutes  or  which  shows wilful lack of  discipline  or  aconcerted  spirit  of non-co-operation	with  the  employer.Even so the question still remains whether the bare and baldreason	given  in the order passed by the appellant  can  besustained as being germane or relevant to the issue  betweenthe parties.  Though considerations of expediency cannot  beexcluded when Government considers whether or not it  shouldexercise its power to make a reference it would not be	opento  the	 Government  to	 introduce  and	 rely  upon   whollyirrelevant  or extraneous considerations under the guise  ofexpediency.   It may for instance be open to the  Governmentin considering the question of expediency to enquire whetherthe dispute raises a claim which is very stale, or which  isopposed	 to  the provisions of the Act, or  is	inconsistentwith  any agreement between the parties, and if the  Govern-ment  comes to the conclusion that the dispute suffers	frominfirmities  of	 this character, it may refuse to  make	 thereference.   But  even in dealing with the  question  as  towhether	 it would be expedient or not to make the  referenceGovernment  must  not  act in a	 punitive  spirit  but	mustconsider  the question fairly and reasonably and  take	intoaccount	  only	 relevant  facts  and	circumstances.	  Inexercising  its	 power	under  s.  10(1)  it  would  not  belegitimate  for the Government for instance to say  that  itdoes  not  like the appearance, behaviour or manner  of	 thesecretary  of the union, or even that it disapproves of	 thepolitical246affiliation  of the union, which has sponsored the  dispute.Such  considerations would be wholly extraneous and must  becarefully excluded in exercising the wide discretion  vestedin  the Government.  In the present case it  is	 significantthat the company has voluntarily paid three months bonus forthe relevant year not withstanding the fact that the workmenhad adopted go-slow tactics during the year, and the  reportof  the conciliator would show prima facie that	 he  thoughtthat  the respondents' claim was not at all frivolous.	 Thereasons communicated by the Government do not show that	 theGovernment  was	 influenced by any  other  consideration  inrefusing to make the reference.	 It is further difficult  toappreciate  how the misconduct of the respondents  on  whichthe  decision  of  the	Government is  based  can  have	 anyrelevance at all in the claim for the classification of	 thespecified  employees which was One of the items in  dispute.If  the work done by these employees prima  facie  justifiedthe claim and if as the conciliator's report shows the claimwas  in	 Consonance with the practice  prevailing  in  othercomparable  concerns  the  misconduct,	of  the	 respondentscannot	be  used as a relevant circumstance in	refusing  torefer	the  dispute  about  classification  to	  industrialadjudication.  It was a claim which would have benefited theemployees  in future and the order passed by  the  appellantdeprives them of that benefit in future.  Any considerationsof  discipline	cannot,	 in  our  opinion,  be	legitimatelyallowed to impose such a punishment on the employees.  Simi-larly  even  in	 regard	 to the	 claim	for  bonus,  if	 therespondents are able to show that the profits earned by	 thecompany	 during	 the relevant year compared to	the  profitsearned during the preceding years justified their demand foradditional  bonus it would plainly be a punitive  action  torefuse to refer such a dispute solely on the ground of theirmisconduct.   In  this	connection it  may  be	relevant  toremember  that for the said misconduct the company did	takedisciplinary action as it thought fit and necessary, and yetit paid the respondents bonus to which it thought they	wereentitled.  Besides, in considering the question247as  to	whether	 a  dispute in regard  to  bonus  should  bereferred for adjudication or not it is necessary to bear  inmind   the   well-established	principles   of	  industrialadjudication  which  govern claims for bonus.  A  claim	 forbonus	is  based  on  the  consideration  that	  by   theircontribution  to the profits of the employer  the  employeesare  entitled to claim a share in the said profits,  and  soany  punitive action taken by the Government by refusing  torefer  for  adjudication  an industrial	 dispute  for  bonuswould,	in  our	 opinion, be wholly  inconsistent  with	 theobject	of  the	 Act.	If the	Government  had	 given	somerelevant   reasons  which  were	 based	on,  or	  were	 theconsequence of, the misconduct to which reference is made itmight  have been another matter.  Under these  circumstanceswe  are unable to bold that the High Court was in  error  incoming	to the conclusion that the impugned decision of	 theGovernment  is wholly punitive in character and must in	 thecircumstances  be treated as based on a consideration  whichis not germane and is extraneous.  It is clear that the	 Acthas  been  passed  in  order  to  make	provision  for	 theinvestigation and settlement of industrial disputes, and  ifit  appears  that  in  cases  falling  under  s.  12(5)	 theinvestigation  and settlement of any industrial	 dispute  isprevented by the appropriate Government by refusing to	makea  reference  on  grounds which are  wholly  irrelevant	 andextraneous  a  case for the issue of a writ of	mandamus  isclearly	 established.	In the result we confirm  the  orderpassed	by  the High Court though not exactly for  the	samereasons.The  appeals accordingly fail and are dismissed with  costs,one set of hearing fees.			     Appeals dismissed.248