PETITIONER:PROVAT KUMAR MITTER	Vs.RESPONDENT:COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX,WEST BENGALDATE OF JUDGMENT:08/12/1960BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR 1019		  1961 SCR  (3)	 37 CITATOR INFO : D	    1961 SC1023	 (7) RF	    1961 SC1059	 (6) D	    1967 SC 383	 (10)ACT:Income	Tax-Assignment by shareholder of right	to  dividendLiability to tax of such share-holder-Indian Income-tax Act,1922 (11 of 1922), ss. 16(1)(c), 16(3).HEADNOTE:The appellant who was the registered holder of 500 shares ofa  company executed a deed dated January 19, 1953, by  whichhe assigned to his wife the right, title and interest to alldividends and sums of money which might be declared or mightbecome due on account or in respect of those shares for	 theterm of her natural life.  During the accounting year  whichended on March 31, 1953, the dividend declared on the sharesamounted  to Rs. 12,000, and in assessing the appellant	 forthe assessment year 1953-54 the Income-tax Officer  includedthe said sum in his income under s. 16(i)(c) and s. 16(3) ofthe Indian Income-tax Act, 1922. The appellant claimed	thatsince  the settlement was for the lifetime of his wife,	 thethird proviso to s. 16(i)(c) applied and the dividend  whichhis wife received could not be deemed to be his income unders.  16(i)(c), and that s. 16(3) was not	 applicable  becausethere was no transfer of the shares to his wife.Held,  that on its true construction the deed dated  January19, 1953, was not a transfer of any existing property of theappellant  namely,  the	 shares	 held by  him,	but  only  acontract  to transfer or make over in future every  dividendand  sum  of money which may be declared or become  due	 andpayable on account or in respect of the shares, to his	wifeduring	her  lifetime.	 Since the  company  could  pay	 thedividend  only	to the registered shareholder or  under	 hisorders,	 the  income continued to accrue  to  the  appellantthough	applied	 subsequently towards payment  to  the	wifeunder the terms of the contract.  The income, therefore, wasassessable in the hands of the appellant.Howrah Trading Co.  Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Cal-cutta, [1959] SUPP. 2 S.C.R. 448, relied on.Bacha  F.  Guzday  v. Commissioner  of	Income-tax,  Bombay,[1955] 1 S.C.R. 876, held not applicable.Bejoy Singh Dhudhuria v.  Commissioner of Income-tax, (1933)L.R. 60 I.A. 196, distinguished.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 366 of 1959.38Appeal from the judgment and order dated September 18, 1958,of the Calcutta High Court in Income Tax Reference No. 9  of1955.S.   Mitra and S. N. Mukherjee, for the appellant.K.   N. Rajagopal Sastri and D. Gupta, for the respondent.1960.	December 8. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredby.S.   K.	 DAS,  J.-This	is an appeal  on  a  certificate  offitness	 granted  by  the High Court of	 Calcutta  under  s.66A(2)	of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922.   The  assessee,Provat	Kumar Mitter, is the appellant before us. He  was  aregistered  holder of 500 Ordinary shares. of  the  CalcuttaAgency	Ltd.   By a written instrument,	 dated	January	 19,1953, he assigned to his wife, Ena Mitter, the right,  titleand interest to all dividends and sums of money which  mightbe declared or might become due on account or in respect  ofthose shares for the term of her natural life.	We may	readhere the material portion of the instrument:	      "This  Deed Witnesseth that for effecting	 the	      said  desire  and	 in  consideration  of	 the	      natural love and affection of the Settlor	 for	      the Beneficiary the Settlor as the  beneficial	      owner assigns unto the Beneficiary the  right,	      title  and interest to every dividend and	 sum	      of  money which may be declared or become	 due	      and payable on account of or in respect of the	      said  shares  (not being the  price  or  value	      thereof) and further hereby covenants with the	      Beneficiary  to hand over and/or endorse	over	      to the Beneficiary any dividend Warrant or any	      other  document of title to such	dividend  or	      sum of money as aforesaid and to instruct	 the	      said Company to pay any such dividend or	such	      sum  of money to the Beneficiary To  Hold	 the	      same  unto the Beneficiary  absolutely  during	      the term of her natural life.	      And It Is Hereby Agreed And Declared that	 the	      Beneficiary shall remain entitled to and shall	      receive  and  stand  possessed  absolutely  of	      every dividend and sum of money which she	 may	      receive on	      39	      account of the said shares during the term  of	      her  natural life and that the  Settlor  shall	      have  no right, title or interest	 therein  or	      derive  any benefit therefrom during the	said	      period."It  is to be noticed that under the terms quoted  above	 theshares themselves remained the property of the assessee, andit was only the income arising therefrom which was sought tobe  settled or assigned to his wife.  During the  accountingyear which ended on March 31, 1953, the dividend declared onthe  shares  amounted to Rs. 12,000.  In assessing  the	 as-sessee	for  the  assessment  year  1953-54  the  Income-taxOfficer	 included the said sum of Rs. 12,000 in	 his  incomeunder the provisions of s. 16(1)(c) and s. 16(3) of the Act,as  he said in his assessment order.  The contention of	 theassessee was that since the settlement was for the  lifetimeof  his wife, the third proviso to s. 16(1)(c)	applied	 andthe dividend which his wife received could not be deemed  tobe  his income under s. 16(1)(c); as to s. 16(3) of the	 Actthe assessee contended that it did not apply, because  therewas  no transfer of the shares to his wife.   The  assessee,accordingly,  appealed	to  the	 Appellate  Assistant	Com-missioner.    Before  that  authority  a  somewhat   unusualcontention  was	 put forward on behalf	of  the	 Department,viz.,  that  the  third proviso to  s.	16(1)(c)  should  beignored inasmuch as it was repugnant to the main  provisionscontained in s. 16(1)(c) and the general scheme of the	Act.A  further contention urged on behalf of the Department	 wasthat since the shares continued to stand in the name of	 theassessee  and the dividends had been declared in  his  name,the transfer of the dividend to the beneficiary was only  anapplication  of	 the dividend income  and,  therefore,,	 theassessee could not claim exemption from being taxed on it asa   part  of  his  own	income.	  The  Appellate   AssistantCommissioner  accepted	both the aforesaid  contentions	 anddismissed the appeal.In  a further appeal to the Income-tax	Appellate  Tribunal,the  assessee  again  relied  on the  third  proviso  to  s.16(1)(c)  of  the Act and  the	Departmental  Representativeurged the same two contentions plus40a new one to the effect that the deed by which the  dividendhad  been transferred was altogether invalid inasmuch as  itwas  an	 unregistered instrument and,  therefore,  no  validtransfer  of  the dividend income had been effected  by	 it.The  Tribunal rejected the Department's contention that	 thethird proviso was in conflict with the main provisions of s.16(1)(c)  or  the  scheme  of the Act.	 As  to	 the  secondcontention  that the transfer of the dividend income  was  amere application of it by the assessee after it had  accruedto  him, the Tribunal apparently expressed no  opinion.	  Itgave  effect,  however,	 to  the  third	 contention  of	 theDepartment,  namely,  that the deed  being  an	unregisteredinstrument  did	 not  operate as a  valid  transfer  of	 thedividend income in favour of the assessee's wife.Both  the  assessee  and the  Commissioner  then  moved	 theTribunal to refer to the High Court the questions which	 hadrespectively  been decided adversely to them.  The  Tribunalacceded	 to the request and referred three questions to	 theHigh Court, two at the instance of the Commissioner and	 oneat  the	 instance of the assessee.  The	 questions  referredwere as follows :	      "(1) Whether the deed dated January 19,  1953,	      assigning	 the dividends to accrue, merely  on	      account of natural love and affection, is void	      as it is not registered?	      (2)   Whether  the  third proviso	 to  section	      16(1)(c)	is  repugnant  to  the	main  clause	      16(1)(c)	and the general scheme of  the	Act,	      and should not be given effect to?	      (3)   Whether, on the facts and in the circum-	      stances  of the case, the payment of  dividend	      income  to  the assessee's wife,	Ena  Mitter,	      under  the covenant in the deed of  assignment	      dated  January 19, 1953, was merely a case  of	      application of the assessee's income?"The High Court answered the first two questions in favour ofthe  assessee.	 It answered the  third	 question,  however,against the assessee and in favour of the  Department.	 TheHigh Court expressed its conclusion on the third question inthe following words:41	      "...............	the conclusion must be	that			    there  being only a voluntary covenant  entered	      into by the settlor to pay over the  dividends	      received by him to the wife or to instruct the	      company to pay them to her and the income	 not	      having  been made the wife's income  from	 the	      beginning, what the settlement provides for is	      only   an	 application  of  the	income	 and	      therefore	 the  income is	 assessable  in	 the	      hands of the settlor, irrespective of  whether	      the  wife is also assessable on her  receipts.	      The case is outside the main clause of section	      16(1)(c) and, therefore, the third proviso  to	      the section is also not relevant."The  appeal  before  us is limited to the  question  of	 thecorrectness  or	 otherwise of the answer given by  the	HighCourt to the third question.  The first two questions havingbeen  answered in favour of the assessee and the  Departmentnot having filed any appeal with regard to them, we are	 notconcerned  with the correctness or otherwise of the  answersgiven by the High Court to those questions and we express noopinion as respects those answers.On behalf of the appellant it has been argued that the	HighCourt  should not have answered the third question,  becauseit  did	 not arise out of the order of	the  Tribunal.	 Theargument  is  that under s. 66 of the  Income-tax  Act,	 theTribunal  could refer to the High Court any question of	 lawwhich  arose  out of its order, but it was not open  to	 theTribunal to refer a question which did not so arise.  We areunable	to accept the contention that the question  did	 notarise out of the Tribunal's order.  Indeed, it is true as wehave  stated  earlier, that the Tribunal did not  state	 itsspecific  finding on this question; but in the statement  ofthe case drawn up by the Tribunal under s. 66 it has  statedthat  though no specific finding was given the question	 wasraised	by  the Department and by  implication	was  decidedagainst the respondent.	 In its application to the  Tribunalfor   a	 reference,  the  present  respondent	specificallymentioned  the question as one decided adversely to  it	 andthough the appellant42submitted that the question did not arise, the Tribunal heldthat the question did arise out of its order.  No  objectionappears	 to  have  been	 taken in  the	High  Court  to	 thereference  made	 by  the Tribunal  on  the  three  questionsincluding  the	one now under consideration before  us.	  Inthese  circumstances  it  is not open to  the  appellant  tocontend	 now  that  the question did not arise	out  of	 theTribunal's   order.   We  must,	 therefore,  overrule	thiscontention. -Now,  as to the correctness of the answer given by the	HighCourt.	Learned counsel for the appellant has contended thatthe High Court did not correctly construe the instrument  ofJanuary	 19,  1953, and on a proper construction,  the	HighCourt  should have held that a right of property in  presentwas  assigned  in favour of the wife.  Learned	counsel	 hassubmitted  that the assessee as a registered holder  of	 500Ordinary shares of the Calcutta Agency Ltd., had a bundle ofrights	in the Company: (1) a right to vote; (2) a right  toparticipate in the distribution of assets on dissolution  orliquidation  of the Company; and (3) a right to	 participatein the profits, e.g., dividends which might be declared.  Itis contended that the aforesaid third right was assigned  tothe  wife by the assessee, and that the High  Court  ignoredthe said assignment while it emphasised the other  covenantsfor  endorsing or handing over the dividend  warrants,	etc.In  support of his contention learned counsel has relied  oncertain	 observations made by this Court in Bacha F.  Guzdarv. Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay (1) at p. 883. ,	Thatwas a case in which the question that arose for decision waswhether	  dividend  declared  by  a,  company  growing	 andmanufacturing tea was agricultural income within the meaningof  s.	2(1)  of the Income-tax Act and	 hence	exempt	fromincome-tax under s. 4(3)(viii) of the said Act.	 It was heldthat  the dividend of a shareholder was the outcome  of	 hisright  to participate in the profits of the company  arisingout of the contractual relation between the company and	 theshareholder,  and the observations on which learned  counselhas relied were to the effect(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 876.43that  "the  right  to  participate  in	the  profits  existsindependently  of  any declaration by the company  with	 theonly  difference that the enjoyment of profits is  postponeduntil dividends are declared."We  do	not  think  that  those	 observations  are  of	 anyassistance to the appellant in the solution of the  questionbefore	us,  which  is really one  of  construction  of	 theinstrument of January 19, 1953.	 A transfer of property	 maytake place not only in the present, but also in future;	 butthe  property must be in existence.  It is clear to us	thatthe  instrument of January 19, 1953, was not a	transfer  ofany  existing property of the assessee.	 It was in its	truenature	a contract to transfer or make over in future  everydividend  and sum of money which may be declared  or  becomedue and payable on account or in respect of the shares	heldby the assessee, to his wife during her lifetime; the  othercovenants  are	ancillary in nature and subserve  this	mainobject	of  the contract.  The assessee did not	 assign	 theshares and, therefore, retained the right to participate  inthe profits of the company; he did not part with that right.What  the  contract  provided  for  was	 merely	 this:	 thebeneficiary was given the right to receive from the assesseeevery dividend and other sum of money which may be  declaredor become due and payable in respect of the shares.  If thisis  the true construction of the document, then it is  clearto  us	that  the  answer given by the	High  Court  to	 thequestion referred to it is correct.  The High Court  rightlypointed	 out that the Company paying the dividend can  pay.it  only to the registered shareholder or under	 his  orders(see Howrah Trading Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of	 Income-tax,Central,  Calcutta)  (1);  therefore,  s.  16(1)(c)  of	 theIncome-tax  Act	 was  not attracted nor	 the  third  provisothereto, and the income continued to accrue to the  assesseebut was thereafter paid over to his wife under the terms  ofthe contract.  The income was, therefore, assessable in	 thehands  of  the assessee, because it was part of	 his  incomethough	applied	 subsequently towards payment  to  the	wifeunder the terms of the contract.(1)  [1959] Supp. 2 S.C.R. 448.44In  this view of the matter, it is not necessary  to  decidethe  further question if a contract of this nature  operatesonly  as a contract to be performed in future which  may  bespecifically  enforced	as soon as the property	 comes	intoexistence  or is a contract which fastens upon the  propertyas  soon  as the settlor acquires it. In  either  view,	 theincome	from  the shares will first accrue  to	the  settlorbefore	the  beneficiary  can  get  it.	  Such	income	willundoubtedly  be	 assessable  in the  hands  of	the  settlordespite	 the contract.	We think that the true	position  isthat if a person has alienated or assigned the source of hisincome so that it is no longer his, he may not be taxed uponthe income arising after the assignment of the source, apartfrom  special  statutory provisions like s. 16(1)(c)  or  s.16(3)  which  artificially  deem it  to	 be  the  assignor'sincome.	  But if the assessee merely applies the  income  sothat  it  passes  through him and goes	on  to	an  ultimatepurpose,  even	though	he may have  entered  into  a  legalobligation  to apply it in that way, it remains his  income.This  is exactly what has happened in the present case.	  Weneed  only  add that the principle laid down  by  the  PrivyCouncil in Bejoy Singh Dudhuria v. Commissioner	 of  Income-tax (3), does not apply to    this case; because this is nota case of an allocation of    a sum out of revenue before itbecomes	 income	 in  the hands of the  assessee.   In  otherwords,	this is not a case of diversion of income before  itaccrues but of application of income after it accrues.We  have,  therefore, come to the conclusion that  the	HighCourt  correctly answered the question referred to it.	 Theappeal fails and is dismissed with costs.		     Appeal dismissed.45