PETITIONER:KHEM CHAND	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:13/12/1957BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.BOSE, VIVIANCITATION: 1958 AIR  300		  1958 SCR 1080ACT:   Constitution,  Interpretation of-'Reasonable	 opportunityof  showing  cause', Meaning of-Punishment of  dismissal  onGovernment   Servant-Constitutional    Protection-Procedure-Constitution of India, Art. 311(2).HEADNOTE:   Reasonable  opportunity to show cause' in Art. 311(2)  Ofthe Constitution contemplates not merely the opportunity  todo  so	at  the enquiry stage but also	when  the  competentauthority,  as a result of the enquiry, proposes to  inflictone of the three punishments mentioned in the Article on thedelinquent  servant.   Such  reasonable	 opportunity   must,therefore, include,-   (1)	  opportunity  to deny his guilt and  establish	 hisinnocence which means that he must be told what the  chargesagainst him			    1081are and the allegations on which such charges are based ;   (2)opportunity  to cross-examine the	 witnesses  producedagainst	 him and examine himself or other witnesses  on	 hisbehalf and,   (3)opportunity to show that the proposed punishment wouldnot  be the proper punishment to inflict, which	 means	thatthe  tentative determination of the competent  authority  toinflict one of the three punishments must be communicated tohim.   High Commissioner for India v. I.M. Lall, L.R. (1948)  75I.A. 225, explained and relied on.   Secretary of State for India v. I. M. Lall, (1945) F.C.R.I03, not followed.   Parshotam Lal Dhingra v. The Union of India, and VenkataRao v. Secretary of State for India, L.R. (1936) 64 I.A. 55,referred to.   The	procedure  followed in such cases  must,  therefore,include the giving of two notices to the servant, one at theenquiry Stage and the other when the competent authority, asa result of the enquiry, tentatively determines to inflict aparticular punishment on him.    Consequently,  in  a case where the	 Government  Servantsought	to  be proceeded against for misconduct	 was  servedwith  a	 charge-sheet  and  appeared  before  two   officersconducting  the enquiry, one after the other, but no  noticewas  served upon him when the competent	 authority  acceptedthe report and confirmed the opinion that the punishment  ofdismissal  should be inflicted on him, and no  cause  could,therefore, be shown by him, the provision of Art. 311(2) hadnot  been  fully complied with and the	order  of  dismissalpassed against him must be declared void and inoperative.JUDGMENT:   CIVIL  APPELLATE  JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.  353  of1957.   Appeal  by  special leave from the  judgment	 and  decreedated  November 1, 1955, of the Punjab High  Court  (CircuitBench)	at Delhi in Regular Second Appeal No. 28-D of  1955,arising	 out of the judgment and decree dated  December	 31,1954, of the Court of the Senior Subordinate Judge at  Delhiin  Regular  Civil  Appeal No. 685 of  1954,  affirming	 thejudgment  and decree of Subordinate Judge Third Class  Delhiin Suit No. 273/213 of 1953.   Janardhan Sharma, for the appellant.   C.	  K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, R.  Gana-pathy Iyer and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondents.10821957.  December 13.  The following Judgment of the Court wasdelivered by    DAS	 C. J.-This appeal by special leave granted by	thisCourt  to  the plaintiff-appellant is directed	against	 thejudgment and decree passed on November 1, 1955, by a  singleJudge of the Punjab High Court sitting in the Circuit  Benchat Delhi in regular second appeal No. 28-D of 1955.   The facts leading up to the present appeal are shortly asfollows:  On  April 6, 1943, the appellant was	appointed  asub-inspector under the Delhi Audit Fund.  In February 1947,he was transferred to the Co-operative Societies  Departmentand  posted as subinspector in the Milk Scheme.	 On July  3,1947,  the  the appellant was confirmed by the	then  DeputyCommissioner of Delhi who was also the ex-officio  Registrarof Co-operative Societies.  On August 1, 1948, the appellantwas transferred to the Rehabilitation Department of the	 Co-operative Societies and posted as sub-inspector.  On July 1,1949,  the  appellant  was  suspended  by  the	then  DeputyCommissioner,  Delhi.	On July 9, 1949, the  appellant	 wasserved with a charge sheet under r. 6(1) of the Rules  whichhad been framed by the Chief Commissioner, Delhi to  providefor  the appointment to the subordinate services  under	 hisadministrative	control	 and the discipline  and  rights  ofappeal	of  members of those  services.	  After	 formulatingeight  several charges the document concluded as follows:  "You are, therefore, called upon to show cause why you shouldnot be dismissed from the service.  You should also state inyour reply whether you wish to be heard in person or whetheryou will  produce  defence.   The  reply  should  reach	 theAsst.Registrar,	 Co-operative Societies, Delhi,	 within	 tendays   from  the  receipt  of  this  charge   sheet".	 Thechargesheet  was signed by Shri Rameshwar Dayal who  was  atthat   time  the  Deputy  Commissioner	of  Delhi  and	 wasadmittedly the authority competent to dismiss the appellant.  The  appellant duly submitted his explanation in  writing.One Shri Mahipal Singh, Inspector, Co.			    1083operative   Societies	was   appointed	  by   the    DeputyCommissioner,  Delhi the officer to hold the  enquiry.	 Theappellant  attended two sittings before the Enquiry  Officerand  then applied to the Deputy Commissioner to entrust	 theenquiry to some Gazetted Officer under him.  This request ofthe appellant was rejected and he was informed	accordingly.Indeed,	 the appellant was warned that the  Enquiry  Officerhad been authorised to proceed with the enquiry ex parte  ifthe appellant failed to attend the enquiry.  The  appellant,however, did not, after October 20, 1949, attend any furthersittings  before the Enquiry Officer.  The  Enquiry  Officerthereupon   framed  four  additional  charges  against	 theappellant,  namely,  (1)  for  his  refusal  to	 attend	 theenquiry,  (2) for his refusal to accept the service  of	 theorder  of the Enquiry Officer, (3) for his  absence  withoutpermission  and	 (4) for his misconduct	 in  snatching	awaypapers	from one Mohd.	Ishaq and using unparliamentary	 andthreatening language.   It  appears	that  at or about this	time  the  appellantbecame involved in a criminal case on a charge under s.	 307of  the	 Indian Penal Code and on October 30, 1949,  he	 wasactually arrested but was released on bail two or three dayslater.	 Eventually  on	 May 20,  1950,	 the  appellant	 wasdischarged from the criminal charge.    On	November 14, 1951, the appellant was served  with  anotice	signed by one Shri Vasudev  Taneja,  Superintendent.The notice was in the following terms:	"Please	 note	thatyou  are  to  appear  before Shri J.B.	Tandon,	 1.  A.	 S.,Additional District Magis-trate,on the 24th November,  1951,at  10-30  a.m., in his court room in  connection  with	 thedepartmental  enquiry  pending against you".   The  languageemployed in the notice does lead some support to the conten-tion  that the Enquiry Officer, Shri Mahipal Singh, had	 notconcluded  the	enquiry	 entrusted  to	him  and  that	 thedepartmental enquiry was still pending.  Pursuant to the notice the appellant appeared before	ShriJ. B. Tandon and urged two points, namely, (1)1381084that the enquiry of the charges framed against him ought  tohave  been held by a Gazetted Officer of the District  Courtand  (2)  that	the enquiry should have	 been  held  in	 hispresence.   It will be noticed that both the points  relatedto  the enquiry before Shri Mahipal Singh.  On December	 13,1951,  Shri J. B. Tandon made a report.	 After reciting	 thecharge	 sheet	containing  the	 notice	 calling  upon	 theappellant to show cause why he should not be dismissed	fromservice and setting out the charges contained in the  noticeand  summarising the explanation submitted by the  appellantwith  regard to each of the charges and reciting the  prayerof the appellant that the Enquiry Officer should be  changedand  the  rejection thereof and the  framing  of  additionalcharges	 and the appellant's absence from the  enquiry	witheffect	from October 20, 1949, the report proceeded  to	 setout the actual charges which Shri Mahipal Singh was appoint-ed to enquire into.  The report then stated that the enquirywith  regard to the first two charges had been held  in	 thepresence of the appellant and the rest were enquired into exparte  as  the	appellant  had	absented  himself  from	 theenquiry.   Then the report recited that twelve	charges	 hadbeen  proved  against  the appellant and he  was  given	 thebenefit of doubt in respect of charge No. (iii) and that  nocharge	sheet  had been given with regard  to  charges	Nos.(xiii) and (xiv) and that no enquiry had been held on  thosecharges.  Out of the twelve charges said to have been provedagainst	 the  appellant,  Shri J. B. Tandon  found  that  nocharge had been actually framed in one case and,  therefore,he  reduced  the  number of proved  charges  to	 eleven	 andproceeded to base his recommendation on them.  After statingthat  the  charges of embezzlemient, acceptance	 of  illegalgratification and borrowing of money from societies were  soserious that even one of them alone was sufficient to demandthe  appellant's dismissal and that the entries made in	 hischaracter  roll disclosed that his work and conduct had	 notbeen  satisfactory and explaining that the enquiry had	beenheld  up  by reason of the appellant having  been  challanedunder s. 307, Indian Penal Code, Shri J. B.			    1085Tandon,	 in his report, formulated the following points	 forconsideration: namely, (1) what penalty should be imposed onShri  Khem Chand for the eleven charges proved against	him?(2)  Whether  his gun licence should be	 cancelled  and	 (3)whether the dues of societies, which had been proved,  mightbe  realised out of the security deposit furnished  by	him?Then, after stating that a personal hearing was given to theappellant  who	raised the two points  mentioned  above	 andholding	 that  there  was no substance in  either  of  them,paragraph 16 of the report ran as follows:   "  The  charges of embezzlement,  acceptance	 of  illegalgratification,	making wrong statement, misbehaviour at	 thetime  of  enquiry and refusal to receive  orders  to  attendenquiry	 which	had been proved against him are	 so  seriousthat,  I am sorry, I cannot suggest lesser  punishment	thandismissal from service and he may be dismissed."   The	report	also recommended that  the  appellant's	 gunlicence	 be cancelled and that he be directed  to  surrenderhis licence and deposit the gun in the district Malkhana andthat the money, which had been proved to have been taken  bythe   appellant	 from  various	societies,  might  also	  berecovered from the security deposit furnished by him.  Thereis no positive and definite statement in Shri J. B. Tandon'sreport that Shri Mahipal Singh had concluded the enquiry  orsubmitted a formal report.  The general tenor of Shri J.  B.Tandon's  report, however suggests that Shri  Mahipal  Singhdid  arrive,  at definite findings on twelve  charges.	 Theappellant's grievance is that he was not given a copy of thereport	of Shri Mahipal Singh, if any had been made, and  nosuch report has been exhibited in this case.   At  the foot of Shri J. B. Tandon's report the  followingendorsement  appears  over  the	 signature  of	the   DeputyCommissioner,  Delhi  under date December 14,  1951:  "	 Thereport	is  approved.	Action	accordingly."  Thereupon  onDecember  17,  1951,  a formal order  was  issued  over	 thesignature of the Deputy Commissioner, Delhi.  It was in	 thefollowing terms: -1086  "I,  the undersigned, do hereby dismiss Shri	Khem  Chand,sub-inspector,	Co-operative  Societies,  Delhi,  from	 theGovernment Service with effect from the date of this  order.He  has	 been found guilty of the charges  of  embezzlement,acceptance   of	  illegal   gratification,   making    wrongstatement,misbehaviour	at  the	 time  of  the	enquiry	 andrefusal	 to receive order to attend the enquiry.  I  furtherorder that money which has been proved to have been taken byShri Khem Chand from various societies be recovered from thesecurity deposit furnished by him.   On  March 15, 1952, the appellant appealed to  the  ChiefCommissioner,  but his appeal was dismissed on	December  8,1952.	Thereafter the appellant served a notice of suit  onthe  respondents under s. 80 of the Code of Civil  Procedureand  on	 May  21, 1953, filed civil suit  No.  213  of	1953complaining,  inter  alia,  that Art. 311(2)  had  not	beencomplied  with.	  The suit was decreed	by  the	 subordinatejudge, Delhi on May 31, 1954, declaring that the plaintiff'sdismissal  was void and inoperative and that  the  plaintiffcontinued to be in the. service of the State of Delhi at thedate  of the institution of the suit and awarding  costs  tothe  plaintiff.	  The  Union of India  preferred  an  appealagainst	 the judgment of the subordinate judge,	 Delhi,	 butthe  appeal was dismissed by the senior	 subordinate  judge,Delhi  on  December 21, 1954, and the decree  of  the  trialcourt  was  confirmed.	 A second appeal was  taken  by	 thedefendants to the Punjab High Court.  By his judgment  datedNovember 1, 1955, the Single Judge held that there had	beena substantial compliance with the provisions of Art. 311 andaccordingly accepted the appeal, set aside the decree of thecourts	below  and  dismissed  the  plaintiff's	 suit.	  OnSeptember 6, 1956, the plaintiff obtained special leave fromthis  Court and has preferred this appeal against the  orderof  the learned Single Judge.  The appellant has  also	beenallowed to prosecute the appeal in forma pauperis.   In the courts below a point was raised as to whether	 theappellant was a member of any of the services			    1087referred  to in Art. 311.  But it was a conceded before	 theHigh  Court  and has also been admitted before us  that	 theappellant was such a member and consequently that point doesnot  arise.  The only point that has been  canvassed  beforeus,  as	 it  had been before the High  Court,  is:  Was	 theappellant  given a reasonable opportunity of  showing  causeagainst the action proposed to be taken in regard to him ?   There is no dispute that the appellant was served with  acharge	sheet  on July 9, 1949, as required by r. 6  of	 theRules which had been framed by the Chief Commissioner, Delhiand  which governed the appellant's conditions	of  service.It is also conceded that the appellant actually appeared  attwo hearings before the Enquiry Officer, Shri Mahipal Singh,but that subsequently he wanted a transfer of the enquiry tosome other officer and that that prayer having been  refusedhe did not take any further part in the enquiry before	thatofficer.  There is no grievance that no opportunity had beengiven to him to defend himself against the charges  levelledagainst	 him in that enquiry.  It is also an  admitted	factthat  some time after the appellant was discharged from	 thecriminal  case, be received a notice on November  14,  1951,requiring him to appear before Shri J. B. Tandon on November25,  1951,  in	connection with the  pending  enquiry.	 Theappellant did appear on the appointed day, bad been given  apersonal  hearing and in fact raised two several  objectionsagainst	 the enquiry held by Shri Mahipal Singh.   His	onlygrievance  is  that, after Shri J. B. Tandon  had  made	 hisreport	on December 13, 1951, recommending the dismissal  ofthe  appellant and the Deputy Commissioner had on  the	verynext day approved of the report and proposed to take  actionaccordingly,  the appellant was not given an opportunity  toshow  cause against the action so pro. posed to be taken  inregard	to him, as he was entitled to under Art. 311 of	 theConstitution.   In order to appreciate the arguments advanced by  learnedcounsel	 for the parties, it is necessary at this  stage  toset out the provisions of the Constitution qearing on  them.The relevant portions of Arts. 3101088and  311 of the Constitution, which substantially  reproducesub-ss.	 (1),  (2) and (3) of s. 240 of	 the  Government  ofIndia Act, 1935, are as follows:-   "   310(1)	Except	as  expressly	provided   by	thisConstitution,  every  person who is a member  of  a  defenceservice	 or  of a civil service of the Union or of  an	all-India  service or holds any post connected with	 defence  orany  civil  post under the Union, holds	 office	 during	 thepleasure-of the President, and every person who is a  memberof a civil service of a State or holds any civil post  undera State holds office during the pleasure of the Governor  ofthe State.   (2)......................................................   311(1)  No person who is a member of a civil	 service  ofthe  Union or an all-India service or a civil service  of  aState or holds a civil post under the Union or a State shallbe dismissed or removed by an authority subordinate to	thatby which he was appointed.  (2)No	 such  person  as aforesaid shall  be  dismissed  orremoved	 or  reduced  in  rank until he	 has  been  given  areasonable  opportunity of showing cause against the  actionproposed to be taken in regard to him:   Provided.................................................  (3)  If  any	question arises	 whether  it  is  reasonablypracticable to give to any person an opportunity of  showingcause  under  clause  (2),  the	 decision  thereon  of	 theauthority  empowered to dismiss or remove such person or  toreduce him in rank, as the case may be, shall be final."  The answer to the question canvassed before us depends  ona  true	 construction of the aforesaid	pro,visions  and  inparticular on the view we take as to the meaning, scope	 andambit  of Art. 311(2).	In Parshotam Lal Dhingra's case	 (1)it  wag said that the word "removed " was not in  s.  240(3)but had been introduced in Art. 311(2).	 It may be mentionedthat although the word " removed " was not actually used  ins. 240(3), the reference to dismissal, according to s. 277,included a reference to removal.   (1)	Civil Appeal No. 65 Of 1957, decided on November  1,1957.			    1089   Article  310(1)  no	doubt  provides	 that  every  personfalling	 within it holds office during the pleasure  of	 thePresident or the Governor, as the case may be.	The languageof both cls. (1) and (2) of Art. 311 are prohibitory in formand was held by the Judicial Committee in High	Commissionerfor  India  v. 1. M. Lal (1) to be inconsistent	 with  theirbeing  merely permissive and consequently  those  provisionshave to be read as qualifications or provisos to Art. 310(1)as has been held by the Judicial Committee in that case	 andrecently by this Court in Parshotam Lal Dhingra v. The Unionof  India(2) in a judgment pronounced on November  1,  1957.The limitations thus imposed on the exercise of the pleasureof  the	 President  or the Governor in	the  matter  of	 thedismissal,  removal  or	 reduction  in	rank  of  governmentservants  constitute  the  measure  of	the   constitutionalprotection  afforded  to  the government  servants  by	Art.311(2).  Clause  (1)  of Art. 311 is quite  explicit  and  protectsgovernment  servants  of the kinds referred  to	 therein  byproviding  that	 they cannot be dismissed, or re.  moved  orreduced	 in  rank  by  a lesser authority  than	 that  whichappointed  them.   Likewise  cl.  (2)  protects	  governmentservants against being dismissed, removed or reduced in rankwithout	 being given a reasonable opportunity to show  causeagainst	 the action proposed to be taken in regard to  them.As  has	 been  explained  by this  Court  in  Parshotam	 LalDhingra's  case (2), the expressions 'dismissed',  'removed'and  ,reduced  in rank' are technical words taken  from	 theservice rules where they are used to denote the three  majorcategories of punishments.   In  exercise	 of powers conferred by s.  96-B(2)  of	 theGovernment  of	India Act, 1915, the Secretary of  State  inCouncil	  framed   Civil   Service   (Governors	   ProvincesClassification) Rules.	Rules (x) and (xiii) of those  rulesprovided   that	 local	government  might,  for	  good	 and,sufficient reasons, inflict the several punishments thereinmentioned   on	persons	 therein  indicated.	Rule   (xiv)prescribed  the procedure for all cases in which  dismissal,removal or reduction in rank of any officer was intended(1)  L.R. (1948) 75 I.A. 225 at P. 241.1090to  be	ordered.   These rules	were  reproduced  with	somemodifications in the Civil Services (Classification, Controland Appeal) Rules which were, on May 27, 1930,	,promulgatedby the Secretary of State in Council in exercise of the samepowers	under s. 96-B of the Government of India Act,  1915.Rule  49 of those rules specified seven different  kinds  ofpunishments which could, for good and sufficient reasons, beimposed upon the members of the services therein  specified.Rule  55 reproduced old r. (xiv) with greater  details.	  Itprovided:   "  Without  prejudice  to the provisions  of	 the  PublicServants  (Inquiries)  Act,  1850, no  order  of  dismissal,removal	 or  reduction	shall be passed on  a  member  of  aService	 (other than an order based on facts which have	 ledto his conviction in a criminal court or by a Court Martial)unless	he  has been informed in writing of the	 grounds  onwhich  it is proposed to take action, and has been  affordedan adequate opportunity of defending himself The grounds  onwhich it is proposed to take action shall be reduced to	 theform of a definite charge or charges which shall be communi-cated  to the person charged, together with a  statement  ofthe  allegations  on which each charge is based and  of	 anyother  circumstances  which  it is  proposed  to  take	intoconsideration  in  passing orders on the case  He  shall  berequired,  within  a reasonable time, to put  in  a  writtenstatement of his defence and to state whether he desires  tobe  heard in person.  If he so desires, or if the  authorityconcerned so direct, an oral inquiry shall be held.  At thatinquiry	 oral  evidence	 shall be heard as to  such  of	 theallegations  as	 are not admitted, and	the  person  chargedshall  be  entitled to crossexamine the witnesses,  to	giveevidence in person and to have such witnesses called, as  hemay  wish, provided that the officer conducting the  inquirymay,  for  special and sufficient reason to be	recorded  inwriting,  refuse to call a witness.  The  proceedings  shallcontain a sufficient record of the evidence and a  statementof  the findings and the grounds thereof.  This	 rule  shallnot apply where the person concerned has absconded,			    1091or  where  it  is for other reasons  impracticable  to	com-municate with him.  All or any of the provisions of the rulemay,  in  exceptional  cases,  for  special  and  sufficientreasons to be recorded in writing, be waived, where there isa  difficulty in observing exactly the requirements  of	 therule and those requirements can be waived without  injusticeto the person charged."   Similar  rules  were framed and are to be  found  in	 theIndian Railway Establishment Code which governs the  railwayservants.   Rule  6  of	 the  Rules  framed  by	 the   ChiefCommissioner,  Delhi, referred to above, is more or less  onthe same lines.   In R. Venkata Rao v. Secretary of State for India it washeld,  with reference to the rules made under s.96-B of	 theGovernment  of	India  Act, 1915, that	while  that  sectionassured that the tenure of office, though at pleasure, wouldnot be subject to capricious and arbitrary action, but wouldbe  regulated  by  the	rules,	it  gave  no  right  to	 theappellant,  enforceable	 by action, to hold  his  office  inaccordance  with those rules.  It was held that s. 96-B	 andthe  rules  made  thereunder only made	provisions  for	 theredress	 of  grievances	 by  administrative  process.	 Theposition  of the Government servant was,  therefore,  ratherinsecure,  for his office being held during the pleasure  ofthe Crown under the Government of India Act, 1915, the rulescould  not  over-ride or derogate from the statute  and	 theprotection  of the rules could not be enforced by action  soas to nullify the statute itself.  The only protection	thatthe  Government servants had was that, by virtue of  s.	 96-B(1),	they  could  not  be  dismissed	 by   an   authoritysubordinate  to	 that  by which they  were  appointed.	 Theposition,  however, improved to some extent under  the	1935Act  which,  by	 s. 240(3), gave a  further  protection,  inaddition to that provided in s. 240(2) which reproduced	 theprotection  of	s 96-B(1) of the Government  of	 India	Act,1915.	We have, therefore, to determine the  true  meaning,scope and ambit of this now protection given by s. 240(3) of(1) L. R. (1936) 64 I.A. 55.1391092the Government of India Act, 1935, which has been reproducedin Art. 311(2).   The	majority of the Judges of the Federal Court  (Spens,C.J., and Zafarulla Khan, J.) in I. M. Lall's case (1)	tookthe view that in sub-s. (3) of s. 240 there had been enactedprovisions  of a very limited scope in	permanent  statutoryform  as  compared  with  the  provisions  under  the  rulesconsidered  in Venkata Rao's case (2).	Further down,  afterreferring  to  the  fact  that	prior  to  1935	 a  sort  ofprotection for the servants of the Crown provided by  sub-s.(3)  was merely to be found in the rules, many	and  variousand  liable  to change, their Lordships proceeded  to  statethat from those rules had been picked out and enacted in thesection	 itself	 certain limited specific  provisions  only.The  majority of the Federal Court at page 138 construed  s.240(3) as follows:  "In our judgment the words "against the action proposed tobe  taken in regard to him " require that there should be  adefinite  proposal  by some authority either  to  dismiss  acivil  servant or to reduce him in rank or alternatively  todismiss	 or reduce him in rank as and when final action	 maybe determined upon.  It should be noted that the sub-sectiondoes not require any inquiry, any formulation of charges, orany opportunity of defence against those charges.  All	thatit  expressly  requires	 is that where	it  is	proposed  todismiss or reduce in rank a civil servant he should be givenreasonable opportunity of showing cause against the proposalto dismiss or reduce him.  It is also significant that thereis  no indication as to the authority by whom the action  isto be proposed.	 It does, however, seem to us that the	sub-section requires that as and when an authority is definitelyproposing  to dismiss or to reduce in rank a member  of	 thecivil  service he shall be so told and he shall be given  anopportunity of putting his case against the proposed  actionand as that opportunity has to be a reasonable	opportunity,it   seems  to	us  that  the  section	requires  not	onlynotification  of the action proposed but of the	 grounds  onwhich the authority is proposing that the(I) (1945) F.C.R. I03, 136.(2) L.R. (1936) 64 I.A. 551093action	should be taken, and that the person concerned	mustthen  be given reasonable time to make	his  representationsagainst	 the proposed action and the grounds on which it  isproposed to be taken.  It is suggested that in some cases itwill be sufficient to indicate the charges, the evidence  onwhich  those  charges are put forward and to make  it  clearthat  unless  the person can on that information  show	goodcause  against being dismissed or reduced if all or  any  ofthe charges are proved, dismissal or reduction in rank	willfollow.	  This may indeed be sufficient in some	 cases.	  Inour  judgment each case will have to turn on its own  facts,but  the  real point of the sub-section is in  our  judgmentthat the person who is to be dismissed or reduced must	knowthat  that  punishment	is proposed as	the  punishment	 forcertain	 acts or omissions on his part and must be told	 thegrounds on which it is proposed to take such action and mustbe given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause why	suchpunishment  should  not be imposed.  That  in  our  judgmentinvolves  in  all cases where there is an enquiry and  as  aresult thereof some authority definitely proposes  dismissalor  reduction  in rank, that the person concerned  shall  betold in full, or adequately summarised form, the results  ofthat enquiry, and the findings of the enquiring officer	 andbe   given  an	opportunity  of	 showing  cause	 with	thatinformation why he should not suffer the proposed  dismissalor reduction of rank.  " The above passage indicates that inthe view of the majority of the judges of the Federal  Courts.  240(3)  corresponding  now to art.	311(2)	does  not  "require	 any  inquiry,	any formulation of  charges  or	 anyopportunity to defend against those charges ". According  tothem  " all that it expressly requires is that where  it  isproposed  to  dismiss or reduce in rank a civil	 servant  heshould	be  given reasonable opportunity  of  showing  causeagainst	 the  proposal	to dismiss  or	reduce	him  ".TheirLordships  added  that	as  that opportunity  had  to  be  areasonable opportunity the section must be taken to  require"not  only  notification of the action proposed but  of	 thegrounds on which the authority is proposing that the  actionshould be1094taken  and  that  the person concerned must  then  be  givenreasonable  time  to -make his representations	against	 theproposed action and the grounds on which  sit is proposed tobe  taken  ".  It is quite clear that the  majority  of	 theFederal	 Court put a somewhat narrow interpretation  on	 therelevant   provision  in  that	they  considered  that	 therequirement  of	 reasonable opportunity contemplated  by  itarose  only  at a later stage when the	competent  authoritydefinitely  proposed  to take a particular action  and	thatthis  opportunity  did	not cover the  earlier	stage  wherecharges were formulated and enquired into.   Varadachariar, J... in his dissenting judgment took	muchthe same view on this point as did the High Court.  The HighCourt observed as follows:  "The	plaintiff's  contention	 is  that  this	 opportunityshould	have been afforded to him after the finding  of	 theenquiring  officer  had been considered and  the  punishmentdecided upon.  With this contention we are unable to  agree.Eight charges were served on the plaintiff and at the end hewas  asked  to show cause why he should 'not  be  dismissed,removed	 or reduced or subjected to such other	disciplinaryaction	as the competent authority may think fit to  enforcefor breach of Government Rules and conduct unbecoming to theIndian Civil Service.  He was aware 'from the very start  ofthe enquiry against him that removal from service was one ofthe  various actions that could have been taken against	 himin  the event of some or all the charges being	established,and in this sense he was showing cause during the course  ofthe  inquiry against the action proposed.   The	 plaintiff'scontention  that there should be two enquiries the first  toestablish  that	 be  had  been	guilty	and  the  second  todetermine  what	 should be the appropriate  punishment,	 andthat in each stage he should have reasonable and independentopportunities to defend and show cause does not appear to becorrect or intended by the Legislature (1).  "   In  agreement with the High Court Varadachariar  J.	heldthat the requirements of sub-s. (3) of s. 240(1)  (1944) I. L. R. 25 Lah. 325, 347, 348.			    1095demanded  nothing  beyond what was required  for  compliancewith  the  provisions  of  r.  55  of  the  Civil   Services(Classification,  Control and Appeal) Rules.   His  Lordshipfound  nothing in the language of el. (3) to  indicate	thatanything  more or anything different was contemplated or  tosuggest that a further opportunity was to be given after theenquiry	 had been completed in the presence of	the  officercharged and the enquiring officer had made his report.	 Thelearned	 Judge was unable to accept the suggestion that	 thewords of the statute were appropriate only to the stage whenthe   authorities  would  be  in  a  position  to   indicatedefinitely  what  action  they	intended  to  take,  namely,whether	 it was to be one of dismissal or one  of  reductionand  that this could be predicated only after the  EnquiringOfficer had made his report.   In our judgment neither of the two views can be  acceptedas a completely correct exposition of the intendment of	 theprovisions  of	s. 240(3) of the Government  of	 India	Act,1935,  now  embodied  in Art. 311(2)  of  the  Constitution.Indeed the learned Solicitor-General does riot contend	thatthis provision is confined to guaranteeing to the governmentservant an opportunity to be given to him only at the  laterstage of showing cause against the punishment proposed to beimposed on him.	 We think that the learned Solicitor Generalis  entirely  right  in	 not pressing  for  such  a  limitedconstruction  of the provisions under consideration.  It  istrue  that  the	 provision  does not,  in  terms,  refer  todifferent stages at which opportunity is to be given to	 theofficer concerned.  All that it says is that the  governmentservant	 must be given a reasonable opportunity	 of  showingcause  against the action proposed to be taken in regard  tohim.   He  must not only be given an  opportunity  but	suchopportunity  must  be a reasonable one.	 In order  that	 theopportunity to show cause against the proposed action may beregarded  as  a	 reasonable  one,  it  is  quite   obviouslynecessary  that	 the  government  servant  should  have	 theopportunity,  to say, if that be his case, that he  has	 notbeen guilty of any misconduct to merit any punishment at alland also that the particular punish-1096ment  proposed to be given is much more drastic	 and  severethan he deserves.  Both these pleas have a direct bearing onthe question of punishment and may    well be put forward inshowing	 cause against the proposed punishment.	 If this  isthe  correct meaning of the clause, as we think it is,	whatconsequences  follow  ?	  If it is open	 to  the  governmnetservant	 under	this provision to contend, if  that  be	 thefact,  that he is not guilty of any misconduct then how	 canhe  take  that	plea unless he is told	what  misconduct  isalleged against him?  If the opportunity to show cause is tobe  a reasonable one it is clear that he should be  informedabout  the  charge or charges levelled against him  and	 theevidence by which it is sought to be established, for it  isonly  then that he will be able to put forward his  defence.If  the purpose of this provision is to give the  governmentservant an opportunity to exonerate himself from the  chargeand if this opportunity is to be a reasonable one he  shouldbe  allowed  to show that the evidence against	him  is	 notworthy of credence or consideration and that he can only  doif  he	is  given a chance to  cross-examine  the  witnessescalled	against	 him  and to examine himself  or  any  otherwitness	 in support of his defence.  All this appears to  usto  be implict in the language used in the clause, but	thisdoes not exhaust his rights.  In addition to showing that hehas  not  been guilty of any misconduct so as to  merit	 anypunishment,  it	 is reasonable that he should also  have  anopportunity  to contend that the charges proved against	 himdo   not  necessarily  require	the  particular	  punishmentproposed to be meted out to him.  He may say, for  instance,that  although he has been guilty of some misconduct  it  isnot  of such a character as to merit the extreme  punishmentof  dismissal  or even of removal or reduction in  rank	 andthat any of the lesser punishments ought to be sufficient inhis case.  To summarise: the reasonable opportunity envisaged by	 theprovision under consideration includes-  (a)  An  opportunity to deny his guilt and  establish	 hisinnocence, which he can only do if he is told what			    1097the charges levelled against him are and the allegations  onwhich such charges are based;    (b)	  an opportunity to defend himself by crossexaminingthe witnesses produced against him and by examining  himselfor  any	 other	witnesses in support  of  his  defence;	 andfinally   (c)	  an  opportunity to make his representation  as  towhy the proposed punishment should not be inflicted on	him,which  he can only do if the competent authority, after	 theenquiry	 is over and after applying his mind to the  gravityor  otherwise of the charges proved against  the  governmentservant	 tentatively  proposes to inflict one of  the  threepunishments  and  communicates the same	 to  the  governmentservant.  In short the substance of the protection  providedby  rules, like r. 55 referred to above, was  bodily  liftedout of the rules and together with an additional opportunityembodied in s. 240 (3) of the Government of India Act,	1935so  as	to  give astatutory  protection	 to  the  governmentservants and has now been incorporated in Art. 311 (2) so asto convert the protection into a constitutional safeguard.   We find support for our above mentioned conclusion in thejudgment of the Judicial Committee in I. M. Lall's case (1).It is true that after quoting a portion of the passage	fromthe  judgment of the majority of the Federal Court  set	 outabove  their Lordships at page 242 stated that	they  agreedwith  the view taken by the majority of the  Federal  Court,but their Lordships did not stop there and went on to say:  " In their opinion, sub-s. 3 of s. 240 was not intended tobe,  and  was not, a reproduction of r. 55, which  was	leftunaffected as an administrative rule. , Rule 55 is concernedthat the civil servant shall be informed " of the grounds onwhich it is proposed to take action ", and to afford him  anadequate  opportunity of defending himself  against  chargeswhich  have  to	 be reduced to writing; this  is  in  markedcontrast  to  the  statutory provision	of  "  a  reasonableopportunity of showing cause against the action proposed  tobe taken in regard to him ". In the(1)  L.R. (1948) 75 I.A. 225 at 241.1098opinion of their Lordships, no action is proposed within themeaning	 of the sub-section until a definite conclusion	 hasbeen  come to on the charges, and the actual  punishment  tofollow	is provisionally determined on.	 Before that  stage,the  charges are unproved and the suggested punishments	 aremerely hypothetical.  It is on that stage being reached thatthe  statute  gives the civil servant  the  opportunity	 forwhich sub-s. 3 makes provision.	 Their Lordships would	onlyadd that they see no difficulty in the statutory opportunitybeing  reasonably afforded at more than one stage.   If	 thecivil  servant has been through an inquiry under r.  55,  itwould not be reasonable that he should ask for a  repetitionof  that  stage,  if duly carried out, but  that  would	 notexhaust his statutory right, and he would still be  entitledto  represent against the punishment proposed as the  resultof the findings of the inquiry."    The above passage quite clearly explains that the  pointon  which their Lordships of the Judicial  Committee  agreedwith  the  majority of the Federal Court is that  a  furtheropportunity  is to be given to the government servant  afterthe  charges  have  been  established  against	him  and  a,particular  punishment is proposed to be meted out  to	him.The  opening sentence in the above passage, namely, that  s.240  (3) was not a reproduction of r. 55 and that r. 55	 wasleft  unaffected  as  an administrative rule  does  seem  tosuggest	 that  s. 240 (3) is not at all concerned  with	 theenquiry	 into the charges which comes at the earlier  stage,but  a	close  reading	of the rest  of	 that  passage	willindicate that in their Lordships' view the substance of	 theprotection  of r. 55 is also included in s. 240 (3)  and  tothat is superadded, by way of further protection, the neces-sity  of  giving yet another opportunity to  the  governmentservant	 at the stage where the charges are  proved  againsthim  and a particular punishment is tentatively proposed  tobe  inflicted  on  him.	  Their	 Lordships  referred  to   "statutory opportunity being reasonably afforded at more thanone stage ", that is to say, that the opportunities at	morestages	than  one  are	comprised  within  the	 opportunitycontemplated			    1099by the statute itself.	Of course if the government  servanthas  been through the enquiry under r. 55, it would  not  bereasonable  that  he  should ask for a	repetition  of	thatstage, if duly carried out, which implies that if no enquiryhas  been held under r. 55 or any analogous rule  applicableto  the particular servant then it will be quite  reasonablefor  him to ask for an enquiry.	 Therefore, in a case  wherethere is no rule like r. 55 the necessity of an enquiry	 wasimplicit  in  s. 240 (3) and is so in  Art.  311(2)  itself.Further	 their Lordships say that an enquiry under r.  55  "would not exhaust his statutory right and he would still  beentitled  to  make a representation against  the  punishmentproposed  as  the result of the findings of the	 enquiry  ".This clearly proceeds on the basis that the right to  defendhimself in the enquiry and the right to make  representationagainst	 the  proposed	punishment are all parts  of  his  "statutory  right  "  and  are  implicit	 in  the  reasonableopportunity   provided	by  the	 statute  itself   for	 theprotection of the government servant.  The  learned Solicitor General appearing for the Union  ofIndia,	then,  contends that assuming  that  the  governmentservant is entitled to have an opportunity not only to	showcause  against	his guilt but also an  opportunity  to	showcause  against	the punishment proposed to be  inflicted  onhim,  the  appellant in the present case has had  both	suchopportunities,	for by the notice served on him on  July  9,1949,  the appellant was called upon to show  cause  againstthe  charges as well as against the punishment of  dismissalin case the charges were established.  He points out that inI. M. Lall's case (1) the notice given to I. M. Lall did notspecify	 dismissal  as the only	 and  particular  punishmentproposed  to be imposed on him, but called upon him to	showcause why he should not be dismissed, removed or reduced  orsubjected to such other disciplinary action as the competentauthority,  might  think  fit to  enforce,  whereas  in	 thepresent case the notice referred to above clearly  indicatedthat  the punishment of dismissal alone was proposed  to  beinflicted.L.R. (1948) 75 1. A. 225.1401100The  learned Solicitor General in support of his  contentionrelies	on the observations of the majority of	the  FederalCourt  quoted above and in particular on the  passage  wheretheir  Lordships  stated " that in some cases  it  would  bequite  sufficient to indicate the charges, the	evidence  onwhich  those  charges are put forward and to make  it  clearthat  unless  the person can on that information  show	goodcause  against being dismissed or reduced in rank if all  orany  of	 the charges are proved, dismissal or  reduction  inrank would follow and that this would be sufficient in	somecases."	 He  also strongly relies on the  circumstance	thattheir Lordships of the Judicial Committee, after quoting theabove  passage, stated that they agreed with the view  takenby  the	 majority  of the Federal Court.   But	as  we	havealready explained, the other observations of their Lordshipsof  the Judicial Committee, which follow immediately,  quiteclearly	 indicate  that	 what they agreed with	was  that  asecond opportunity was to be given to the government servantconcerned after the charges had been brought home to him  asa result of the enquiry.  Their Lordships made it clear thatno  action  could,  in their view, be said  to	be  proposedwithin	 the  meaning  of  the	section	 until	a   definiteconclusion  had been come to on the charges and	 the  actualpunishment  to follow was provisionally determined  on,	 forbefore	that  stage the charges remained  unproved  and	 thesuggested  punishments were merely hypothetical and that  itwas  on that stage being reached that the statute  gave	 thecivil  servant	the opportunity for which  sub-s.  (3)	madeprovision.  A close perusal of the Judgment of the  JudicialCommittee in I. M. Lall's case will, however, show that	 thedecision in that case did not proceed on the ground that  anopportunity  had  not been given to 1. M. Lall	against	 theproposed  punishment  merely because in the  notice  severalpunishments were included, but the decision proceeded reallyon  the ground that this opportunity should have been  givenafter  a stage had been reached where the charges  had	beenestablished and the competent authority had applied its mindto the gravity or otherwise of the			    1101proved	 charge	 tentatively  and  proposed   a	  particularpunishment.   There  is	 as  the  Solicitor-General   fairlyconcedes,   no	practical  difficulty  in   following	thisprocedure  of  giving two notices at the two  stages.	Thisprocedure also has the merit of giving some assurance to theofficer concerned that the competent authority maintains  anopen  mind with regard to him.	If the	competent  authoritywere  to determine, before the charges were proved,  that  aparticular  punishment would be meted out to the  governmentservant	 concerned,  the  latter  may  well  feel  that	 thecompetent  authority  had  formed an  opinion  against	him,generally  on  the subject matter of the charge or,  at	 anyrate,  as  regards the punishment itself.   Considered	fromthis  aspect also the construction adopted by us appears  tobe consonant with the fundamental principle of jurisprudencethat justice must not only be done but must also be seen  tohave been done.   It  is  on the facts quite clear that, when	Shri  J.  B.Tandon	concluded  his	enquiry	 and  definitely  found	 theappellant  guilty of practically all the charges he for	 thefirst time suggested that the punishment of dismissal shouldbe  the proper form of punishment in this case.	 Shri J.  B.Tandon was not, however, the competent authority to  dismissthe appellant and, therefore, he could only make a report tothe  Deputy  Commissioner who was the  person  competent  todismiss the appellant.	When the Deputy Commissioner accept-ed the report and confirmed the opinion that the  punishmentof dismissal should be inflicted on the appellant, it was onthat stage being reached that the appellant was entitled  tohave  a further opportunity given to him to show  cause	 whythat  particular punishment should not be inflicted on	him.There is, therefore, no getting away from the fact that Art.311(2)	has not been fully complied with and  the  appellanthas not had the benefit of all the constitutional protectionand  accordingly  his dismissal cannot	be  supported.	 We,therefore,  accept this appeal and set' aside the  order  ofthe Single Judge and decree the appellant's suit by making adeclaration that the order of dismissal passed by the DeputyCommissioner on1102December  17,1951, purporting to dismiss the appellant	fromservice was inoperative and that the appellant was a  memberof  the service at the date of the institution of  the	suitout of which this appeal has arisen.  The appellant will getcosts throughout in all courts.	 He must pay all court	feesthat  may be due from him.  Under order XIV, Rule 7  of	 theSupreme Court Rules were direct that the appellants could bepaid his fees which we assess at Rs. 250.					   Appeal allowed.