PETITIONER:THE MAHALAXMI MILLS LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,BOMBAY(And connected appeals)DATE OF JUDGMENT:08/04/1960BENCH:ACT:Income	Tax-Depreciation-Computation of written down  value-Deduction of depreciation in earlier  years-Scope-SaurashtraIncome Tax Ordinance, 1949, s. 13(5) (b)-Taxation Laws (PartB  States)  (Removal of Difficulties) Order, 1950,  para  2-Indian Income Tax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922), s. 10(5) (b).HEADNOTE:The  assessees were carrying on business in Bhavnagar  whichwas formerly an Indian State.  In 1948 Bhavnagar became partof the United State of Saurashtra and on March 16, 1949	 theSaurashtra  Income-tax Ordinance was promulgated.   For	 thepurpose	 of calculating the depreciation allowance to  whichthe  assessees	were entitled in computing  the	 profits  orgains  of  the	business,  the written	down  value  of	 thebuilding,   machinery  etc.,  had  to  be   ascertained	  inaccordance  with the provisions of the	Ordinance.   Section13(5)  (b) of the Ordinance provided that "the written	downvalue  meant,  in  the case of assets  acquired	 before	 theprevious  year,	 the actual cost to the	 assessee  less	 alldepreciation  actually allowed to him under  this  Ordinanceor.........  which  would have been allowed to	him  if	 theIndian Income-tax(1) A.I.R217Act,  1922, was in force in the past".	For  the  assessmentyear  1949-50,	as  the assets of  the	assessees  had	beenacquired  before the previous year, the Income-tax  Officer,in  ascertaining  the  written	down  value,  deducted	 thedepreciation  which  would  have been  allowable  under	 theIndian	Income-tax Act, 1922, if it had been in force and  aclaim had been made supported by the prescribed particulars.The assessees claimed that on the wording of it s. 13(5) (b)of  the Ordinance did not enable the Income-tax	 Officer  tomake the deduction, as, in fact, no claim was made or  couldbe made for such allowance.For the assessment year 1951-52, as by that time  Saurashtrahad  become  a Part B State of the Union of  India  and	 theIndian	Income-tax  Act, 1922 had been extended to  it,	 theIncome-tax  Officer, applied the provisions of s. 10(5)	 (b)of  the	 Indian	 Income-tax  Act read with  para  2  of	 theTaxation  Laws	(Part B States)	 (Removal  of  Difficulties)Order,	1950,  while computing the written  down  value	 anddeducted not only the depreciation allowed in the assessmentyear  1950-51  under  the  Indian  Income-tax  Act  and	 thedepreciation  allowed in the assessment year  1949-50  underthe  Saurashtra Income-tax Ordinance but also the  deprecia-tion availed of in the previous years by the assessees underthe  Bhavnagar War Profits Act.	 Paragraph 2 of the  Removalof  Difficulties  Order	 of 1950 provided:  "In	 making	 anyassessment  under  the	Indian	Income-tax  Act,  1922,	 alldepreciation  actually allowed under any laws or rules of  aPart B State relating to income-tax and super-tax or any lawrelating  to tax on profits of business shall be taken	intoaccount	 in computing the written down value under s.  10(5)(b)  of the Act".  The assessees contended that it was	onlywhen a difficulty was actually experienced in giving  effectto  the Act that the provision of the Order could come	intooperation in a particular case and as no such difficulty wasactually experienced the said provision had no	application,and that, in any case, as the Bhavnagar War Profits Act	 wasnot  a law of the Part B State, para 2 of the Order was	 notapplicable.Held:(i) On the true construction of s. 13(5)(b) of theSaurashtra Income-tax Ordinance, the words "which would havebeen allowed to him" in that sub-section meant "which shouldhave  been allowed if proper claim had been made", and	thatin ascertaining the written down value the depreciation thatwould have been allowed if proper claim had been made if theIndian	Income-tax Act, 1922, which was not in force in	 theState before, had been in force, should be deducted.Commissioner  of Income-tax v. Kamala Mills Ltd., [1949]  17I.T.R.	 130   and  Rajaratna  Naranbhai   Mills   Ltd.	  v.Commissioner   of   Income-tax	 [1950]	  18   I.T.R.	122,distinguished.(ii)It	was for the Central Government to determine if	anydifficulty had arisen in giving effect to the provisions  ofthe Indian218income-tax  Act,  1922,	 and  then to  make  such  order  asappeared to it necessary to remove the difficulty, that oncethe order was made it operated under its own terms, and thatin  giving effect to the order it was not necessary for	 theIncome-tax  Officer to examine first in any particular	casewhether	 any difficulty had arisen.  Accordingly, para 2  ofthat Taxation Laws (Part B States) (Removal of	DifficultiesOrder, 1950, was applicable.Commissioner of Income-tax v. Dewan Bahadur Ram Gopal  MillsLtd., [19611 2 S.C.R. 318, followed.(iii)The Bhavnagar War Profits Act was a law within thewords  " any law relating to tax on profits of business"  inpara 2 of the Removal of Difficulties Order of 1950.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION:	 Civil Appeals Nos.  599-602of 1962.Appeals	 from the judgment and order dated April 7, 8,	1960of the Bombay High Court in Income-Tax Reference Nos. 70 and71 of 1956.R.J.  Kolah, Ravinder Narain, J. B. Dadachanji and O.  C.Mathur for the appellants (In all the Appeals).N.D. Karkhanis and R. N. Sachthey, for the respondent (Inall the Appeals).The Judgment of the Court was delivered byDAS GUPTA J.-The assessee is the appellant in each of  thesefour  appeals arising out of four references under s.  66(1)of  the Indian Income-tax Act to the High Court	 of  Bombay.In  two of these appeals (C.A. Nos. 599 & 600 of  1962)	 theassessee  who has filed the appeals is the  Mahalaxmi  MillsLtd.,  in the other two (C.A. Nos. 601 and 602 of 1962)	 theMaster Silk Mills Ltd., is the appellant-assessee.   AppealsNos. 599 and 601 are in respect of the assessment year 1949-50; the other two are in respect of assessment year 1951-52.The  controversy  in  all  these cases	is  as	regards	 thecomputation   of   written   down   value   in	 calculatingdepreciation allowance.Both the assessees bad from before 1949-50 been carrying  onbusiness  in Bhavnagar which was formerly an  Indian  State.In 1948 Bhavnagaralong	with  other  Indian  States  of	  Kathiawar   formedthemselves into a union by the name of United States219of  Kathiawar.	 Later	the name Kathiawar  was	 changed  toSaurashtra.   On  March 16, 1949, the Raj  Pramukh  of	thisnewly-formed  State  instituted	 the  Saurashtra  Income-taxOrdinance,  1949.  This Ordinance was in force for one	yearonly  the assessment year 1949-50. In assessing the  profitsof  business  by the two appellant-companies  for  the	year1949-50	 the Income-tax Officer had therefore to proceed  inaccordancewith  the provisions of this Ordinance.	 For the purpose  ofcalculating the depreciation allowance to which the assesseewas  entitled  in  computing the profits  or  gains  of	 thebusiness  the written down value of the building,  machineryand  plants  or	 furniture had first to	 be  ascertained  inaccordance withS.   13(5) of the Ordinance which ran thus:-"Written down value" means:-(a)in  the case of assets acquired in the  previous  year,the actual cost to the assessees;(b)in the case of assets acquired before the previous yearthe  actual  cost  to the  assessee  less  all	depreciationactually  allowed  to him under' this Ordinance	 or  allowedunder any Act repealed hereby or which would have been allo-wed to him if the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, was in  forcein the past."As the assets-of both the assessees had been acquired beforethe previous year s. 13(5) (b)applied. Reading the words  inthe last part of s. 13(5) (b) as equivalentto which  wouldhave been allowable to him if theIndian	 Income-tax   Act,1922, was in force" the income-tax Officer, in	ascertainingthe  written down value, deducted depreciation	which  wouldhave  been allowable under the Indian Income-tax Act,  1922,if it had been in force and a claim had been made  supportedby  prescribed particulars.  This amount in the case of	 theMahalaxmi Mills Ltd., the appellant in C.A. No. 599/62,	 wascomputed as Rs. 17,21,041 and in the case of the Master SilkMills Ltd., the appellant in C.A. No. 601/62, was calculatedas Rs. 2,02,500.  The obvious result of deducting220this   amount  was  that  the  written	down  value   becameconsiderably  lower than what it would have  been  otherwiseand   so  the  depreciation  allowance	became	less.	 Theassessee's  contention	that no deduction should  have	beenmade  on  the strength of the words which  would  have	beenallowed	 to him if the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922,  was  infact  in force in the past" as in fact no claim was made  orcould  be  made	 for such allowance,  was  rejected  by	 theIncome-tax Officer.  The Appellate Assistant Commissioner asalso the Income-tax Tribunal, however, took a different viewand  held  that this expression "or which  would  have	beenallowed	 to him if the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922,  was  inforce in the past" did not permit the Income-tax Officer  tomake  any  deduction under this bead.  The question  of	 lawwhich  was referred to the High Court under s. 66(1) of	 theIndian Income-tax Act on the application of the Commissionerof Income-tax has therefore been framed thus:-"Whether  on the above facts and circumstances of  the	caseand  upon a proper construction of the expression "or  whichwould have been allowed to him if the Indian Income-tax Act,1922,  was in force in the past" in Section 13(5)(b) of	 theSaurashtra Income-tax Ordinance, 1949 the written down valuehas  to	 be computed by deduction from the  actual  cost  ofdepreciation allowance which was allowable under the  IndianIncome-tax Act, 1922, even though not claimed?"In each of the case, the High court answered the question inthe  affirmative, but gave a certificate that it was  a	 fitcase for appeal to the Supreme Court under s. 66(A) 2 of theIndian Income-tax Act.	The present appeals have been  filedon the basis of these certificates.On  behalf of the appellants Mr. Kolah has argued  that	 theOrdinance has not used. the words "would have been allowableto  him" nor the words" would have been allowed to him if  aclaim  supported by prescribed particulars had	been  made",and  there is no justification for reading these words	intothe221Ordinance.   He	 has stressed the fact that  in	 many  caseswhere  the  Indian Income-tax Act is in force  the  assesseemight  find it to his interest not to make a claim  for	 thedepreciation  allowance	 and so	 no  depreciation  allowancewould  then be allowed to him.	He concedes that it  may  bethat  the intention of the Rai Pramukh in using these  wordsin the Ordinance was that the depreciation which could	havebeen and would have been allowed if a proper claim had	beenmade and substantiated, assuming the Indian Income-tax	Act,1922,  was  in	force in the past,  should  be	deducted  inascertaining  the written down value. file contends  howeverthat  the words actually used are not sufficient to  expressand give effect to this intention.  According to him, it wasnecessary in order to give effect to such an intention	thatthe  words  "if a. claim had been made supported  by  properParticulars"  or  at least the words "if a  claim  had	beenmade"  had  been used in this clause.  In our  opinion,	 thewords  which according to Mr. Kolah were necessary  to	giveeffect	to  the	 above intention are implicit  in  the	verylanguage  that	has  been used though  they  have  not	beenexpressly  used.   The authority which	made  the  Ordinanceshould be credited with having appreciated the position thatno  depreciation would have been allowed even if the  IndianIncome-tax  Act,  1922,	 had  been in  force,  if  no  claimsupported  by  proper  particulars  had	 been  made.	Whentherefore  the words "which would have been allowed to	him"were  used  they were used to mean "which should  have	beenallowed	 if  proper claim had been made.  For, it  would  bemeaningless  to	 speak	of a  depreciation  allowance  beingallowed.  without a claim.  The words used, in our  opinion,are apt and sufficient to express the intention that if	 theIncome-tax  Act, 1922, which was not in force in  the  Statebefore, had been in force, the depreciation that would	havebeen  allowed  if  proper  claim had  been  made  should  bededucted in ascertaining the written down value.Mr.  Kolah complains that on this construction the  positionof the assessee becomes worse than222if  the	 Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, had actually  been  inforce  in Saurashtra.  If that had. been the case  only	 thedepreciation  actually	allowed in the earlier	years  wouldhave  been deductible and so, if no claim had been made	 andtherefore no depreciation had been actually allowed, nothingwould 'be deductible under this head.  It does not stand  toreason, argues Mr. Kolah, that the position of the  assesseeshould be made worse by this fiction in s. 13(5) (b) of	 theOrdinance  than	 it would have been if the Act had  in	factbeen in force.	It is not unreasonable to think however thatwhen  making this Ordinance the Raj Pramukh thought that  ifthe Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, had been in force a  properclaim  would  ordinarily  have been made  and  whatever	 wasallowable  under  that	law  would  have  been	allowed	  asdepreciation.	The  words used not only leave no  doubt  asregards	 the  intention	 of the authority, but	as  we	havealready	 stated,  are apt and sufficient to give  effect  tothat intention.Mr.  Kolah urged that it would cause undue hardship  to	 theassessee,  that	 without  having  actually  availed  of	 anydepreciation he would be treated as if he bad done so.	 Thewords used do not however leave any doubt about the  meaningand  whether or not. any hardship has been caused is  besidethe point.Neither	 of the two cases cited by Mr. Kolah in	 support  ofhis  argument  is  of any assistance.	In  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax  v. Kamala Mills Ltd.(1)the Calcutta	 High  Courtdecided that the words "actually allowed" in s. 10(5) (b) ofthe  Indian  Income-tax	 Act as amended	 by  the  Income-tax(Amendment) Act (XXIII of 1941) are unambiguous and  connotethe  idea  that the allowance was in fact given	 effect	 to.The   Court   rejected	a  contention  of   the	  Income-taxauthorities  that  the expression "actually  allowed"  means"allowable" under the law in force.  In that case the  Courthad not to deal with any expression similar to "depreciationwhich would have been allowed if the Indian Income-tax	Act,1922, was in(1)  [1949] 17 I.T.R. 130.223force".	 In Rajaratna Naranbhai Mills Ltd., v.	Commissionerof  Income-Tax(1) the Bombay High Court had to construe	 thewords "the amount of depreciation applicable" and held	thatas   the   words  were	not   "depreciation   allowed"	 but"depreciation  applicable"  it was  immaterial	whether	 theassessee  got  any benefit of depreciation in  any  previousyear.  Here also, the Court was not called upon to  considerthe  effect  of the words under our  present  consideration,viz., the depreciation which would have been allowed if	 theIndian	Income-tax  Act,  1922 had  been  in  force.   Thus,neither	 of  these  decisions has  any	application  to	 thepresent appeals.For  the  reasons we have already given, we are	 of  opinionthat  the  High Court was right in  answering  the  questionreferred in these cases out of which Civil Appeals Nos.	 599and 601 have arisen, in the affirmative.For the assessment years 1951-52 the controversy arises in adifferent way.	In 1950, Saurashtra became a Part B State ofthe Union of India; by s. 3 of the Indian Finance Act, 1950,the  Indian Income-tax Act was extended to it.	 In  1951-52therefore  the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, was in force  inSaurashtra   in	 which	Bhavnagar  was	included.   So,	  incalculating the written down value of assets acquired beforethe  previous year the Income-tax Officer had to  apply	 theprovisions of s. 10(5) (b) of the Indian Income-taxAct, 1922, which runs thus:-"In the case of assets acquired before the previous year theactual	cost to the assessee less all depreciation  actuallyallowed to him under this Act, or any Act repealed  thereby,or under executive orders issued when the Indian  Income-taxAct, 1886 (11 of 1886) was in force."What  the Income-tax Officer did was to deduct not only	 thedepreciation  allowed in the assessment year  1950-51  underthe Indian Income-tax Act but also the depreciation  allowedin the assessment year(1)[1950] 18 I.T.R. 122.2241949-50	 under the Saurashtra Income-tax Ordinance  and	 thedepreciation  availed  of  in  the  previous  years  by	 theassessee  under the Bhavnagar War Profits Act.	There is  orcan  be	 no  dispute that the depreciation  allowed  in	 theassessment  year 1950-51 was rightly deducted.	There  mighthave been a dispute ,about the depreciation allowed in 1949-50 under the Saurashtra Income-tax Ordinance, but, as beforethe  High Court the assessee conceded that this	 amount	 wasalso rightly deducted, and no controversy on this was raisedeither before the High Court or before us. The only  disputethat  remains is whether the depreciation availed  of  underthe  Bhavnagar	War Profits.  Act Rs. 5,93,285 in  C.A.	 No.600/62 by the Mahalaxmi Mills Ltd., and Rs. 1,26,707 in C.A.No. 602/62 by the Master Silk Mills Ltd.--was deductible  inlaw.   The Appellate Assistant Commissioner agreed with	 theIncome-tax  Officer that this was allowable.  The  AppellateTribunal, however, took a different view, but on the  prayerof the Commissioner of Income-tax referred the following twoquestions  to  the High Court under s. 66(1) of	 the  IndianIncome-tax Act:-"1. Whether on the above facts and circumstances of the caseand  on a correct interpretation of the relevant  provisionsof s. 10(5) (b) read with the Taxation Laws (Part B  States)(Removal  of Difficulties) Order, 1950, paragraph 2 and	 theNotification  No. 19 (S.R.O.477) dated 9th March 1953  underSection	 60A the written down value is to be computed  afterdeducting  depreciation	 allowance  which  could  have	beenclaimed tinder the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922?2.   Whether  the Notification No. 19 (S.  R.O.	 477)  dated9th  March 1953 is ultra vires of the powers of the  CentralGovernment?"The  High  Court  has answered the second  question  in	 theaffirmative  and  the correctness of that is  no  longer  indispute before us.225As  regards  the first question it appears to  us  that	 thematter in controversy between the parties which was actuallyconsidered  by the High Court is not clearly brought out  bythe  question as framed.  Both parties agree that  the	realquestion on which the High Court's view was sought and whichhas  been  actually  considered by the	High  Court  may  beexpressed thus:-"Whether  on the above facts and circumstances of  the	caseand  on a correct interpretation of the relevant  provisionsof  Section  10 (5) (b) of the Indian Income-tax  Act,	1922read  with  the Taxation Laws (Part B  States)	(Removal  ofDifficulties) Order, 1950, paragraph 2 and the	NotificationNo.  19 (S.R.O.477) dated the 9th March 1953  under  section60A  the depreciation availed of by the assessees under	 theBhavnagar  War	Profits	 Act  was  a  deductible  amount  incomputing the written down value of the assets."It  will  be noticed that the validity of  the	Notificationreferred  to in the question was the subjectmatter  of	thesecond	question  and the correctness of  the  High  Court'sanswer	that it was invalid, was not questioned	 before	 us.What really remained to be considered by the High Court	 wasthe  effect  of	 paragraph 2 of the Taxation  Laws  (Part  BStates)	 (Removal at' Difficulties) Order, 1950-to which  weshall  later refer as the "Removal of  Difficulties  Order".The  High Court held that the provisions of  this  paragraphapplied	 to  these two cases of assessment for	1951-52	 andunder  them  the  depreciation already	availed	 of  by	 theassessees  under  the Bhavnagar War Profits Act	 had  to  bededucted   in  computing  the  written	down   value.	 Thecorrectness of this decision is challenged before us in C.A.Nos. 600 and 602 of 1962.The  Removal of Difficulties Order was made by	the  CentralGovernment  on December 2, 1950, in exercise of	 the  powersconferred  by s. 12 of the Finance Act, 1950, and Section  5of the Opium and226and  Revenue Laws (Extension of Application) Act, 1950.	  Weare  concerned	in the present case only with s. 12  of	 theFinance Act, 1950.  That section runs thus:-"If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisionsof any of the Acts, rules or orders extended by section 3 orsection	 II  to any State or merged territory,	the  CentralGovernment  may, by order, make such provision or give	suchdirection as appears to it to be necessary for removing	 thedifficulty."Section 3 of the Act had the effect of extending the  IndianIncome-tax  Act,  1922,	 to Part B States in  the  Union  ofIndia.	 It  was  not  disputed	 that  it  was	within	 thecompetence of the Central Government to make the Removal  ofDifficulties Order, 1950, if any difficulty arose in  givingeffect	to the Indian Income-tax Act in an area to which  itso  became  extended.	In  making  the	 order	the  CentralGovernment  has expressly said: "That  certain	difficultieshad arisen in giving effect to the provisions of the  IndianIncome-tax  Act,  1922........................	in  Part   BStates"	 and  so, the order was made.	In  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax Hyderabad v. Dewan Bahadur Ran; Gopal Mills Ltd.,(1)  this Court held that it was for the Central  Governmentto determine if any difficulty of the nature indicated in s.12  bad	 arisen	 and then to make such order  or  give	suchdirection  as appeared to it to be necessary to	 remove	 thedifficultly.  It was in view of this decision that Mr. Kolahconceded  that	the  order was validly	made.	He  contendshowever	 that  it  is only when	 a  difficulty	is  actuallyexperienced  in giving effect to the Indian  Income-tax	 Actthat the provision of the Order can come into operation in aparticular  case. in the cases now under  consideration,  heargues, no such difficulty was actually experienced and	 so,paragraph 2 would have no application.In  our	 opinion,  the	High  Court  rightly  rejected	thiscontention.  The consequence of the Removal of	DifficultiesOrder being validly made under s. 12(1)  [1961] 2 S. C. R. 318.227of  the Finance Act, 1950, is that paragraph 2 of the  Order(as  also  the other paragraphs) have to be applied  and  noexception can be made.	Paragraph 2 runs thus:-"In making any assessment under the Indian, Income-tax	Act,1922,  all depreciation actually allowed under any  laws  orrules  of a Part B State' relating to income-tax and  super-tax or any law relating to tax on profits of business  shallbe   taken   into  account  in	 computing   the   aggregatedepreciation allowance referred to in sub-clause (c) of	 theproviso	 to  clause (iv) of sub-section 2, and	the  writtendown value under clause (b) of sub-section 5, of section 10,of the said Act."These words require "all depreciation actually allowed underany  laws or rules of a Part B State relating to  income-taxand  super-tax	or  any law relating to tax  on	 profits  ofbusiness" to be taken into account in computing the  writtendown  value  under s. 10 (5) (b) of  the  Indian  Income-taxAct,-irrespective  of whether any difficulty has or has	 notarisen	in  a  particular  case	 in  giving  effect  to	 theprovisions of the Indian Income-tax Act.  What is  necessaryin  law is that before an order can be made by	the  CentralGovernment  under  s.  12, the Central	Government  must  besatisfied  that in certain cases difficulties have  actuallyarisen	in  giving effect to the provisions  of	 the  IndianIncome-tax Act.	 Once on such satisfaction an order is	madeit  is not again necessary for the application of the  orderin  a particular case that difficulty must be found to	havearisen.	 A separate Order under s. 12 has not got to be madeeach  for  particular  case.  The order	 once  made  on	 thesatisfaction  of the Central Government that in	 some  casesdifficulties have arisen in giving effect to the  provisionsof  the Indian Income-tax Act the order operates  under	 itsown  terms  and so in giving effect to the order it  is	 notnecessary  for the Income-tax Officer to see  first  whetherany difficulty has arisen.We  are of opinion that whether any difficulty did  actuallyarise in the cases now under considera-228tion  in applying the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922,  in	thisPart  B	 State	or  not,  paragraph  2	of  the	 Removal  ofDifficulties  Order must be applied according to its  terms.It  is therefore not necessary to examine whether  any	suchdifficulty did arise in these cases.This  brings  us  to Mr. Kolab's main  contention  that	 theBhavnagar   War	 Profits  Act  is  not	one  of	  the	lawsdepreciation  allowed under which has to be  deducted  underparagraph 2 of this Order.  He points out that the BhavnagarWar  Profits Act bad ceased to be in force long	 before	 thePart  B	 State-the  United States  of  Saurasbtra-came	intoexistence.   It was therefore never a law of a Part B  Stateand  so depreciation which the assessee availed of under  itwill  not come within the words "all  depreciation  actuallyallowed	 under any laws or rules of a Part B State  relatingto  income-tax and super-tax." This appears to	be  correct;but  the  question still remains whether the  Bhavnagar	 WarProfits Act is covered by the words "any law relating to taxon  profits of business" in the paragraph.  If it does,	 thedepreciation which the assessee availed of under the Act hasto  be	deducted  in  computing	 the  written  down   value.Analysing  the	clause: "all depreciation  actually  allowedunder  any  laws  or rules of a Part  B	 State	relating  toIncome-tax  and	 super-tax" or any law relating	 to  tax  onprofits on business," we notice that the words "of a Part  BState"	were used to qualify the phrase "any laws or  rules"in the first portion of the clause.  Similar words were	 notused  to  qualify the words "any law" in  the  second  part.According to Mr. Kolah these words "of a Part B State"	wereintended  to be read also after the words "any law"  in	 thelatter	portion and were omitted by way of ellipsis so	thatthe sentence might not appear cumbersome.Ellipsis  is  a well-known figure of speech by	which  wordsneeded to complete the construction or sense are omitted  toproduce	 better	 rhythm or balance in the structure  of	 thesentence.After  careful	consideration we have however  come  to	 theconclusion that the omission of the words229"    of	 a Part B State" in this paragraph is not by way  ofellipsis  but  a deliberate omission with the  intention  ofincluding  laws	 which could not be stated to be laws  of  apart  B State but bad been laws in the same area at  a	timebefore they formed part of a Part B State.  If the  omissionhad  been  by way of ellipsis, as argued by  Mr.  Kolah,  itwould  be  reasonable  to  think that  the  words  "any	 lawrelating to tax" would also have been omitted and this	partof  the	 paragraph  would have	read  as  "all	depreciationactually  allowed under any laws or rules of a Part B  Staterelating  to Income-tax and super-tax or tax on	 profits  ofbusiness."  It also appears to us that if the intention	 hadnot  been  to include the depreciation allowed under  a	 lawwhich  had been law in a component part of the Part B  Statebefore	it  became  included in the Part  B  State,  it	 wasunnecessary to add the words "	   or  any law	relating  totax on profits of business." For, "a law relating to tax  onprofits	 of business" is also a law relating  to  Income-taxand, so, depreciation actually allowed under a law  relatingto  tax	 on profits of business which was law of  a  Part  BState would come within the first portion of the clause.  Itis worth noticing in this connection that in 1949 when by anOrdinance  certain  taxation laws were	extended  to  MergedStates	the  Central  Government made under  s.	 8  of	thatOrdinance  'The	 Taxation Laws (Merged States)	(Removal  ofDifficulties)  Order,  1949".	Paragraph 2  of	 that  Ordermerely	said  "all depreciation actually allowed  under	 anylaws  or rules of a merged State relating to Income-tax	 andsuper-tax shall be taken into account." Nothing was said  inthat  Order as regards " any law relating to tax on  profitsof  business."	The Removal of Difficulties  Order  add	 thewords  "any  law relating to tax on  profits  of  business".This appears to have been done with the deliberate intentionof  including  depreciation allowed under  such	 laws,	eventhough	they  were  not laws "of a Part B State"  but  of  acomponent State.We  have  come	to the conclusion  that	 the  Bhavnagar	 WarProfits Act is within the words "any law230relating  to tax on profits of business" in paragraph  2  ofthe  Removal of Difficulties Order.  We hold that  the	HighCourt  has rightly decided that the depreciation availed  ofby  the assessee under the Bhavnagar War profits act  was  adeductible  amount in  computing the written down  value  ofthe assets.All  the appeals are therefore dismissed with costs.   Therewill be one set of hearing fee in all the appeals.Appeal dismissed.