PETITIONER:CHAUBE JAGDISH PRASAD AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:GANGA PRASAD CHATURVEDIDATE OF JUDGMENT:05/12/1958BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.IMAM, SYED JAFFERDAS, S.K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  492		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 733 CITATOR INFO : R	    1970 SC1193	 (8) R	    1970 SC1727	 (7) R	    1979 SC 404	 (23)ACT:       Revision-Revisional  Powers  of High  Court-jurisdiction	 of       subordinate  court dependent on existence of  fact-Erroneous       finding	as  to	such  fact-Competence  of  High	 Court	 to       interfere-Code of Civil Procedure (Act V of 1908), S. 115.HEADNOTE:Landlord  and Tenant-Accommodation-Agreed monthly  rent	 Newconstruction-Enhancement  of rent-House Allotment  Officer'sfindings-Power	of  the	 civil courts to  interfere  U.	  P.Templeton Control of Rent and Eviction Act, 1947 (U.P. 3  of1947), SS. 2(a)(f) 3A, 5(4), 6.In  1938 the respondent took on rent from the appellant	 theaccommodation  in dispute on a monthly rent of	Rs.  21-4as.On  January 28, 1950, the appellant made an  application  tothe  House  Allotment  Officer	under  s.  3A  of  the	U.P.Temporary  Control  of Rent and Eviction Act, 1947,  for  anincrease  in rent, on the allegation that according  to	 theinstruction   of   the	respondent  lie	 had  made   a	 newconstruction in January, 1949.	The734Officer	 considered that the accommodation was not  a  newlyconstructed  one  as the respondent had been a	tenant	from1938, but he increased the rent to Rs. 40 per mensem on	 thebasis	of   the  building  that  was  added  by   the	 newconstruction.	The  appellant thereupon instituted  a	suitunder s. 5(4) Of the Act for the enhancement of " reasonableannual rent ". The respondent's defence inter alia, was thatthe  new  construction	was undertaken in order	 to  put  upanother	 storey on the top of the old building, that so	 faras  the accommodation in his possession was concerned  therewas  no	 new construction of accommodation  after  June	 30,1946,  and that, therefore, the suit was  not  maintainable.The  trial  court  found  that	as  a  result  of  the	 newconstruction the accommodation had increased and was of	 theopinion	 that  the portion of the building  which  had	beennewly  replaced must be treated as a new  accommodation	 andhence the, court could determine its rent under s. 5(4).  Inrevision,  the High Court held that though the	constructionon  the upper storey was a new construction, so far  as	 theaccommodation  in  the	occupation  of	the  respondent	 wasconcerned the construction could not be called a new one andtherefore S. 3A of the Act was not applicable.	 Accordinglythe   revision	petition  was  allowed	and  the  suit	 wasdismissed.  On appeal by special leave to the Supreme  Courtit was contended for the appellant that the House  AllotmentOfficer	 having	 decided in his favour the question  of	 thedate  of construction which S. 3A of the Act authorised	 himto decide, the High Court could not in revision go into	 thecorrectness  of	 the  decision ; and, in any  case,  it	 waswithin	the  jurisdiction of the trial court to	 decide	 thequestion  of  the date of construction and in  doing  so  itcould  decide rightly or wrongly, and as the matter was	 oneof  fact the High Court had no power to interfere  under  s.115 Of the Code of Civil Procedure.Held:(1) that a wrong decision made by the House Allot-ment Officer under s. 3A of the Act or an order made by	 himin  excess  of	his  powers  under  that  section  could  berectified by a suit under S. 5(4) of the Act; and(2)that	 the maintainability of the suit brought under	s.3A  of	the  Act  depended  on	the  determination  of	 thejurisdictional	fact  i.e.,  date  of  construction  of	 theaccommodation,	whether it was after June 30, 1946,  and  ifthe  court  wrongly decided that fact  and  thereby  assumedjurisdiction not vested in it, the High Court had the  powerto  interfere under s. 115 of the Code of  Civil  Procedure,and  once  it had the power it could determine	whether	 thequestion of the date of construction was rightly or  wronglydecided.Joy  Chand Lal Babu v. Kamalaksha Chaudhury, (1949) L.R.  76I.A. 131, relied on.Queen  v.  Commissioner for Special Purposes of	 the  IncomeTax,  (1888)  21 Q.B.D. 313; Venkatagiri Ayyangar  v.  HinduReligious  Endowment Board, Madras, (1949) L.R. 76  I.A.  67and Keshardeo Chamria v. Radha Kissen Chamria, [1953] S.C.R.136, considered.	    735Rai Brij Raj Krishna v. S. K. Shaw and Bros., [1951]  S.C.R.145, distinguishedThe relevant provisions of the Act are set out in the  judg-ment.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 153 of 1955.Appeal	by Special Leave from the judgment and decree  datedAugust	30,  1954,  of the Allahabad  High  Court  in  CivilRevision  Application  No. 540 of 1951, arising out  of	 thejudgment  and decree dated March 31, 1951, of the  Court  ofthe Additional Civil Judge, Mathura, in Suit No. 19 of 1950.G.   C. Mathur, for the appellants.C.   B. Aggarwala and Ganpat Rai, for the respondent.1958.	December 5. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyKAPUR,	J.-This	 is an appeal by special leave	against	 thedecision of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad passedin  revision  under s. 115 of the Code of  Civil  Procedure.The landlord who was the plaintiff in the trial court is theappellant before us and the tenant who was the defendant  isthe respondent.The  facts  of this appeal are that in 1938  the  respondenttook on rent the accommodation in dispute which is termed  a'  tal'	 on a monthly agreed rent of Rs. 21-4  as.  and	 wasusing  the  same  for the purpose  of  stacking	 timber.   Aportion of it was a covered godown which had three walls anda  kucha roof.	On January 28, 1950, the appellant  made  anapplication  to the House Allotment Officer under s. 3-A  ofthe  United  Provinces	(Temporary)  Control  of  Rent	 andEviction Act, 1947 (U.	P. III of 1947) (hereinafter  termedthe  Act) for the fixation of " reasonable annual rent "  ofthe  accommodation in dispute.	He therein alleged  that  inJanuary	 1949 he had " constructed anew " a big godown 80  x25 x 11 feet according to the instructions of the respondentand  expended  a  fairly large sum of money on	it  and	 wastherefore entitled to a monthly rent of Rs. 165.  The  HouseAllotment  Officer fixed on February 18, 1950, the  rent  atRs. 35736per  mensem which on review was raised on May 25,  1950,  toRs. 40 per mensem.  He held that the accommodation was not anewly constructed accommodation as the respondent had been atenant from 1938.  He determined the increase of rent on thebasis	of   the  building  that  was  added  by   the	 newconstruction.  He also held that:"  The	cost of land, the floor area of godown and  rent  ofother  similar premises would be irrelevant as all of  theseexisted	 before new construction and were included  in	rentbefore new construction ".The  appellant thereupon instituted a suit on the ground  ofinadequacy  of the reasonable annual rent under s.  5(4)  ofthe Act alleging that he had constructed the portion of	 theaccommodation  " anew " and put up ferro-concrete roof 80  x25  feet  and that the construction was	 undertaken  at	 therequest	 of  the respondent who had agreed to  pay  enhancedrent  but  had	refused to do so; that	although  the  HouseAllotment  officer,  Mathura,  had fixed  the  rent  of	 theaccommodation at Rs. 35 which wag subsequently raised to Rs.40  per mensem, the proper rent should not be less than	 Rs.115 per mensem and therefore prayed for the enhancement of "reasonable annual rent ". The defence was that there was  noconstruction  at  the request of the respondent but  it	 hadbeen undertaken in order to put up another storey on the topof  the	 old building; that as far as the  accommodation  inpossession of the respondent was concerned there was no	 newconstruction of accommodation after June 30, 1946; that	 theferro-concrete	roof  had in no way benefited  him,  on	 theother hand the space at his disposal had diminished  becauseof the number of pillars constructed and the lowering of theroof.	He also pleaded that the suit was  not	maintainableunder  the Act and that no suit could be filed "  after	 theorder of the House Allotment Officer ". The relevant  issuesraised were :-(1)"  Whether the suit is not maintainable in view of  anyprovisions of the Act No. 3 of 1947 ?(2)Whether  the	 suit after the fixation of  rent  by  theHouse Allotment Officer is not maintainable ?737   (5) What should be the reasonable and proper rent of	 theaccommodation in suit ? "The  learned Additional Civil Judge found that the suit	 wasnot  barred  because of the Act; that the suit	against	 theorder of the House Allotment Officer was maintainable;	thatnewly constructed accommodation on the whole was bigger	 andmore  spacious	than  the  old	kacha  hall  and  that	 theaccommodation	had   increased	 and   after   taking	intoconsideration  the  amount  spent  on  the  construction  beincreased the " reasonable adequate rent " to Rs. 55-8-0.Against this decree of the learned Judge the respondent tooka  revision  to the High Court under s. 115 of the  Code  ofCivil Procedure.  The High Court was of the opinion that  ifthe accommodation was a new construction erected after	June30,  1946,  the suit was maintainable and-  the	 High  Courtcould  not interfere with the finding of the Civil Judge  asto  the	 amount	 of  rent.   If	 on  the  other	 hand,	 theconstruction  was an old one, the suit did not lie  and	 theagreed rent would continue to be payable.  It also held thatthe construction on the upper storey was a new	constructionbut  as	 far as the accommodation in the occupation  of	 therespondent  was	 concerned  the construction  could  not  becalled	new  construction  and	therefore  B.  3-A  was	 notapplicable  and	 as  no	 suit lay at  the  instance  of	 thelandlord  to have the agreed rent enhanced, the	 tenant	 wasonly  liable  to  pay  the agreed rent	and  no	 more.	 Therevision petition was therefore allowed and the suit of	 theappellant was dismissed.The main controversy raised between the parties was  whetherthe  High Court could, in revision under S. 115 of the	Codeof  Civil  Procedure, interfere with this  decision  of	 thetrial  court.	The respective contentions were	 these:	 Theappellant  contended that it was within the jurisdiction  ofthe  Additional	 Civil Judge to decide the question  of	 thedate of construction of the accommodation and in doing so hecould decide rightly or wrongly as the matter was within his93738jurisdiction  and therefore the High Court had no  power  tointerfere  merely  because in its opinion the  decision	 waserroneous.  In other words, this question was -merely one ofthe  facts  in issue between the  parties  unconnected	withjurisdiction.	He also contended that the  House  AllotmentOfficer	 having	 decided in his favour the question  of	 thedate of construction which s. 3-A of the Act authorises	 himto  decide, his right to bring the suit was established	 andtherefore the High Court could not in revision under s. 115,Code  of  Civil Procedure, go into the correctness  of	thatdecision.   The	 respondent's  counsel	on  the	 other	handsubmitted  that the decision of the court as to the date  ofconstruction  was in this case a jurisdictional fact i.e.  afact which went to the root of the jurisdiction of the courtbecause unless the accommodation was held to have been a newconstruction  made after June 30, 1946, the appellant  wouldbe bound by the agreed rent and would have no right of	suitunder  s. 5(4) and the court would have no  jurisdiction  toentertain  the	suit.  In order to decide  the	question  atissue, it is necessary at this stage to refer to the  schemeof  the Act.  The object of the Act was to  control  lettingand   the   rents   of	 residential   and    nonresidentialaccommodations."Accommodation" was defined in s. 2(a) as follows:2.(a)  "accommodation means residential and  non-residentialaccommodation  in any building or part of the  building	 andincludes..................." Reasonable annnal rent " is defined in s. 2(f):2.(f)	"   Reasonable	annual	rent  in  the	case   ofaccommodation constructed before July 1, 1946, means(1)if  it is separately assessed to municipal  assessment,its municipal assessment plus 25 per cent thereon ;(2)if it is a part only of the accommodation so	 assessed,the proportionate amount of the municipal assessment of suchaccommodation plus 25 per cent. thereon ;(3)  if it is not assessed to municipal assessment-739(i)but was held by a tenant on rent between April 1, 1942,and June 30, 1946, fifteen times the rent for the one  monthnearest to and after April 1, 1942, and(ii)if	it was not so held on rent, the	 amount	 determinedunder section 3-Aand  in	 the case of accommodation constructed on  or  afterJuly  1, 1946, means the rent determined in accordance	withsection 3-A ".As  to	how reasonable annual rent of a building was  to  bedetermined was provided for in s. 3-A:S.3-A " (1) In the case of any accommodation  constructedafter  June  30, 1946, or falling under	 subclause  (ii)  ofclause	(3) of sub _ section (f) of section 2, the  DistrictMagistrate  may, on the application of the land lord or	 thetenant, determine the reasonable annual rent thereof.(2)In  determining the reasonable annual rent  under  sub-section (1) the District Magistrate shall take into account-(a)if  the  accommodation was constructed after	 June  30,1946,  the  cost  of construction  and	of  maintenance	 andrepairs	 of the accommodation, its situation and  any  othermatter, which in the opinion of the District Magistrate,  ismaterial and(b)  if it is accommodation-(i)  falling  under clause (2) or sub-clause (1)  of  clause(3)  of sub-section (f) of section 2, the principles therein,set forth, and(ii)falling under sub-clause(1) of clause (3) of subsection(f)  aforesaid,	 the principles set forth in clause  (a)  ofsub-section (1) of section 6.(3)Subject  to	the result of any suit	filed  under  sub-section	 (4)  of section 5, the rent fixed by  the  DistrictMagistrate under this section shall be the annual reasonablerent of the accommodation." "  Agreed  rent  " was defined in s. 5(1)  of	the  Act  tobe........................  the	 rent payable  for  any	 ac-commodation  to which this Act applies shall be such as	 maybe agreed upon between the landlord and the tenant."Section 5(4) of the Act provided:740" If the landlord or the tenant, as the case may be,  claimsthat  the  annual reasonable rent of  any  accommodation  towhich the Act applies is inadequate or excessive, or if	 thetenant claims that the agreed rent is higher than the annualreasonable  rent,  he may institute a suit for	fixation  ofrent   in  the	Court  of  the	Munsif	having	 territorialjurisdiction,  if the annual rent claimed or payable is	 Rs.500  or	 less, and in the Court of the	Civil  Judge  havingterritorial  jurisdiction  if it exceeds Rs.  500,  providedthat  the Court shall not vary the agreed rent unless it  issatisfied  that the transaction was unfair, and in the	caseof  lease for a fixed term made before April 1,	 1942,	thatthe term has expired ".Section	 6  provided for the procedure as follows(1)  " In  determining the amount of annual or monthly	rentin  any	 suit  under section 5 the  court  shall  take	intoaccount-(a)in the case of accommodation constructed before July 1,1946,  the  pre-war rent, the reasonable annual	 or  monthlyrent,  the  prevailing	rent on the date  of  the  suit	 forsimilar	  accommodation	 in  the  locality,  the   cost	  ofmaintenance  and  repairs  of  such  accommodation  and	 anymaterial  circumstances	 proved	 by  the  plaintiff  or	 thedefendant,(b)in  the case of accommodation constructed on	 or  afterJuly  1, 1946, the cost of construction and  of	 maintenanceand  repairs of accommodation, its situation and  any  othercircumstance which the court may consider material.(2)No  appeal  shall lie from any decree or order  of  theMunsiff	 or  the Civil Judge in a suit	brought	 under	sub-section (4) of section 5:Provided  that	(except as regards the rate of rent  but  nofurther) the decree or order so passed shall not operate  asres judicata between the parties or their representatives ininterest in any suit or proceedings under any other lawIt is not necessary to refer to other sections of the Act.The  Act therefore in the preamble sets out the	 objects  ofthe Act.  In s. 2(a) it defined the meaning of			 741the  word  accommodation'  to  mean  residential  and	non-residential  accommodation  in any building or part  of	 thebuilding and in s. 2(f) it laid down in three parts what thereasonable   annual   rent  was,  one  part   dealing	withaccommodation constructed before July 1, 1946, and  assessedto municipal assessment, the second part with  accommodationso constructed and not assessed to municipal assessment	 butheld  by a tenant between April 1, 1942, and June 30,  1946,and  the  third part with accommodation	 constructed  on  orafter July 1, 1946, and these last two were to be determinedin accordance with the provisions of s. 3-A which  empoweredthe  District Magistrate to do so.  Sub-section (1) of	thissection	 gave power to the District Magistrate to  determinethe  reasonable	 annual rent in the  case  of  accommodationconstructed  after June 30, 1946, or falling under cl.	(ii)of sub-s. 3 of section 2 (f) i.e. if it was not assessed  tomunicipal assessment though constructed before July 1, 1946,and was not held by a tenant between April 1, 1942, and June30,1946.  Subsection 2 of s. 3-A laid down the factors to betaken  into  consideration  in	determining  the  reasonableannual	rent and under sub-s. 3 the rent so fixed was to  bethe annual reasonable rent of the accommodation but this wassubject	 to  the  result  of a suit  filed  under  s.  5(4).Therefore under s. 3-A the District Magistrate was  entitledto  determine  the  amount of reasonable  annual  rent	wheneither	of  the two facts on which his	power  depended	 wasshown  to exist i.e. (1) the accommodation  was	 constructedafter  June 30, 1946, or (2) although it existed  previouslyit was not assessed to municipal assessment and had not beenheld by a tenant on rent between April 1, 1942, and June 30,1946.  The District Magistrate's power to determine the rentunder  s.  3-A therefore was not confined  to  accommodationconstructed after June 30,1946, alone.	The rent  determinedby  the District Magistrate under s. 3-A was the  reasonableannual rent under the Act subject to the result of any	suitfiled  under  sub-s. (4) -of s. 5. A wrong decision  by	 theDistrict Magistrate under s. 3-A or an order made by him  inexcess of his742powers under that section could be rectified by a suit unders. 5(4).This  provision of the Act i.e. s. 5(4) provided  for  threeclasses	 of  suits, one by a landlord  that  the  reasonableannual	rent was inadequate and (2) by the tenant  that	 theannual	rent was excessive and (3) also by the	tenant	thatthe agreed rent was higher than the reasonable annual  rent.Hence  under this section the appellant landlord's right  ofsuit  was  restricted to challenging the inadequacy  of	 thereasonable annual rent but he could not sue for varying	 theagreed rent.  The appellant in the present case brought	 hissuit  on the around of inadequacy of the reasonable rent  asdetermined under s. 3-A and consequently its maintainabilitydepended on the determination of the jurisdictional fact  i.e. date of its construction, whether it was before or  afterJune  30,  1946, on the decision of which would	 depend	 hisright  to  bring  the  suit; because if	 there	was  no	 newconstruction,  the  agreed rent would be operative  and	 theappellant  would have no right of suit under s. 5(4) of	 theAct.Consequently,  by wrongly deciding this question  the  courtwould be entertaining a suit by the landlord for enhancementof the agreed rent and thereby assuming jurisdiction it	 didnot  possess  and the landlord would  be  circumventing	 therestriction  on his right to sue for enhancement  of  agreedrent which the law did not allow.As the issues raised show the learned Additional Civil Judgewas  alive to the fact that the maintainability of the	suitdepended  on  the  determination  of  this  question.	 Theappellant  had specifically alleged that  the  accommodationhad  been constructed after June 30, 1946, a fact which	 wasdenied	by the respondent.  That gave rise to the first	 twoissues and the learned Civil Judge held:-" I am therefore of the opinion that portion of the buildingin  suit which has been newly replaced must be treated as  anew  accommodation, and hence this Court can  determine	 itsrent  under the provisions of s. 5(4).	In view of the	factthat it is a new743accommodation  no  question of agreed rent  arises  and	 thelandlord can bring a suit for fixation of rent ".Two facts therefore stand out clearly in the judgment of thetrial  court  (1)  that	 it was the  existence	of  a  newlyconstructed  accommodation  which gave jurisdiction  to	 thecourt  to determine its reasonable annual rent and (2)	thatas it was a newly constructed accommodation, the question ofagreed rent did not arise.The  High Court, in our view, approached the question  quitecorrectly when it stated that the question for determinationwas whether the accommodation had been constructed before orafter  June 30, 1946, and that if it was constructed  beforethat  date the suit was incompetent and if after,  the	suitwould  lie.  The contention raised by the appellant in	thisCourt was that the decision of the trial Court as to whetherthe  accommodation was constructed before or after  July  1,1946, cannot be challenged in revision in the High Court andhe relied on the following observation of Lord Esher, M. R.,in  the	 Queen v. Commissioner for Special Purposes  of	 theIncome Tax (1):-"  When an inferior court or tribunal or body, which has  toexercise  the power of deciding facts, is first	 establishedby Act of Parliament, the legislature has to consider,	whatpowers it will give that tribunal or body.  It may in effectsay that, if a certain state of facts exists and is shown tosuch  tribunal	or  body before it proceeds  to	 do  certainthings,	 it shall have jurisdiction to do such	things,	 butnot  otherwise.	  There it is not for them  conclusively  todecide	whether	 that state of facts exists,  and,  if	theyexercise  the jurisdiction without its existence, what	theydo  may	 be questioned, and it will be held that  they	haveacted  without jurisdiction.  But there is another state  ofthings	which  may exist.  The legislature may	intrust	 thetribunal  or  body with a jurisdiction, which  includes	 thejurisdiction  to determine whether the preliminary state  offacts exists as well as the jurisdiction, on finding that itdoes  exist, to proceed further or do something more.	Whenthe  legislature  are establishing such a tribunal  or	bodywith limited jurisdiction,(1)  (1888) 21 Q.B.D. 313, 319.744they also have to consider, whatever jurisdiction they	givethem, whether there shall be any appeal from their decision,for otherwise there will be none.  In the second of the	 twocases I have mentioned it is an erroneous application of theformula	 to  say that the tribunal  cannot  give  themselvesjurisdiction  by  wrongly deciding certain facts  to  exist,because the legislature gave them jurisdiction to  determineall  the facts, including the existence of  the	 preliminaryfacts  on which the further exercise of	 their	jurisdictiondepends;  and if they were given jurisdiction so to  decide,without any appeal being given, there is no appeal from suchexercise of their jurisdiction.  These	 observations  which relate to	inferior  courts  ortribunals with limited jurisdiction show that there are	 twoclasses	 of cases dealing with the power of such a  tribunal(1)  where  the	 legislature entrusts a	 tribunal  with	 thejurisdiction including the jurisdiction to determine whetherthe preliminary state of facts on which the exercise of	 itsjurisdiction  depends exists and (2) where  the	 legislatureconfers jurisdiction on such tribunals to proceed in a	casewhere a certain state of facts exists or is shown to  exist.The  difference is that in the former case the tribunal	 haspower  to determine the facts giving it jurisdiction and  inthe  latter case it has only to see that a certain state  offacts exists.  In the present case the appellant asked for adetermination of reasonable annual rent under s. 3-A on	 theground that the accommodation was constructed after June 30,1946, and the House Allotment Officer therefore had power todetermine the reasonable annual rent.In  order to give jurisdiction to the civil court there	 badto be in existence a reasonable annual rent as defined unders. 2(f) whether it fell within its first two clauses or	 wasdetermined under s. 3-A.  The reason. able annual rent couldbe  varied at the instance of the landlord or the tenant  onthe  ground  of its inadequacy or excess  but  the  landlordcould  not. bring a suit to vary the agreed rent  nor  couldthe court entertain such a suit although it was open to	 thetenant	to  do	so  and the  court  could  at  his  instanceentertain745such a suit.  The proceedings before the civil court are notby way of an appeal from any order under s.  3-A made by theDistrict Magistrate.Section	 115,  Code of Civil Procedure,	 empowers  the	HighCourt,	in cases where no appeal lies, to satisfy itself  onthree  matters:- (a) that the order made by the	 subordinatecourt  is within its jurisdiction; (b) that the case is	 onein  which the court ought to exercise its jurisdiction;	 (e)that in exercising the jurisdiction the court has not  actedillegally,  that is, in breach of some provision of  law  orwith material irregularity that is by committing some  errorof procedure in the course of the trial which is material inthat  it may have affected the ultimate decision.   Per	 SirJohn  Beaumont	in Venkatagiri Ayyangar v.  Hindu  ReligiousEndowment  Board,  Madras (1).	Therefore  if  an  erroneousdecision  of a subordinate court resulted in its  exercisingjurisdiction not vested in it by law or failing to  exercisethe   jurisdiction  so	vested	or  acting   with   materialirregularity   or   illegality	in  the	 exercise   of	 itsjurisdiction the case for the exercise of powers of revisionby  the	 High Court is made out.  In Joy Chand Lal  Babu  v.Kamalaksha  Chaudhury  (2), the subordinate  court  gave  anerroneous  decision that the loan was a commercial loan	 andtherefore  refused to exercise jurisdiction vested in it  bylaw and the Privy Council held that it was open to the	HighCourt  to  interfere  in revision under s.  115.   Sir	JohnBeaumont said at p. 142:" There have been a very large number of decisions of IndianHigh Courts on s. 115, to many of which their Lordships havebeen   referred.    Some  of  such  decisions	prompt	 theobservation  that  High Courts have not	 always	 appreciatedthat  although	error in a decision of a  subordinate  courtdoes  not by itself involve that the subordinate  court	 hasacted  illegally  or  with material irregularity  so  as  tojustify	  interference	 in  revision  under   sub-s.	(c),nevertheless,  if  the	erroneous decision  results  in	 thesubordinate court exercising a jurisdiction not vested in itby law,(1)(1949) L.R. 76 I.A. 67, 73.(2) (1949) L.R. 76 I.A. 131.94746or failing to exercise a jurisdiction so vested, a case	 forrevision  arises under sub-s. (a) or sub.s. (b),  and  subs.(c)  can be ignored.  The cases of Babu Ram v. Munnalal	 (1)and Hari Bhikaji v. Naro Vishvanath (2), may be mentioned ascases  in  which a subordinate court by	 its  own  erroneousdecison (erroneous, that is, in the view of the High Court),in the one case on a point of limitation and in the other ona   question  of  res  judicata,  invested  itself  with   ajurisdiction  which in law it did not possess; and the	HighCourt  held, wrongly their Lordships think, that it  had  nopower to interfere in revision to prevent such a result.  Inthe  present  case their Lordships are of opinion  that	 theHigh Court, on the view which it took that the loan was	 nota commercial loan, had power to interfere in revision  undersub-s. (b) of s. 115 ".In Keshardeo Chamria v. Radha Kissen Chamria (3) both  thesejudgments  of  the  Privy  Council  as	also  the   previousjudgments in Rajah Amir Hassan Khan v. Sheo Baksh Singh (4 )and  Balakrishna Udayar v. Vasudeva Aiyar (5) were  reviewedand  it was held that s. 115 of the Code of Civil  Procedureapplies	 to  matters of jurisdiction  alone,  the  irregularexercise or non exercise of it or the illegal assumption  ofit.   Thus if a subordinate court had jurisdiction  to	makethe  order  it	made  and has not acted	 in  breach  of	 anyprovision  of law or committed any error of procedure  whichis  material  and may have affected the	 ultimate  decision,then  the High Court has no power to interfere.	 But  if  onthe other hand it decides a jurisdictional fact	 erroneouslyand  thereby  assumes  jurisdiction  not  vested  in  it  ordeprives itself of jurisdiction so vested then the power  ofinterference under s. 115 becomes operative.The  appellant also relied on Rai Brij Raj Krishna v. S.  K.Shaw and Bros. (6) where this Court quoted with approval theobservations  of  Lord Esher in Queen  v.  Commissioner	 forSpecial Purposes of the Income Tax(7) and The Colonial	Bankof Australia v. Willan where Sir James Co] ville said :-(1)(1927) I.L.R. 49 All. 454.(3)[1953] S.C.R. 136.(5)(1917) L.R. 44 I.A. 261.(7)(1888) 21 Q B.D. 313, 319.(2)  (1885) I.L.R. 9 Bom. 432.(4)  (1884) L.R. 11 I.A.237.(6)  [1951] S.C.R. 145.(8)  (1874) L.R. 5 P.C. 417, 443.			 747" Accordingly the authorities............... establish	thatan  adjudication  by a Judge having  jurisdiction  over	 thesubject	 matter is, if no defect appears on the face of	 it,to  be taken as conclusive of the facts stated	therein	 andthat the Court of Queen's Bench will not on certiorari quashsuch  an  adjudication	on the ground that  any	 such  fact,however essential has been erroneously found ".But  these  observations  can have  no	application  to	 thejudgment of the Additional Civil Judge whose jurisdiction inthe present case is to be determined by the provisions of s.5(4) of the Act.  And the power of the High Court to correctquestions  of  jurisdiction is to be found within  the	fourcorners of s. 115.  If there is an error which falls  withinthis  section  the  High  Court	 will  have  the  power	  tointerfere, not otherwise.The only question to be decided in the instant case is as towhether the High Court had correctly interfered under s. 115of  the Code of Civil Procedure with the order of the  CivilJudge.	 As  we	 have held above, at  the  instance  of	 thelandlord  the suit was only maintainable if it was based  onthe  inadequacy of the reasonable annual rent and  for	thatpurpose	 the necessary jurisdictional fact to be  found	 wasthe date of the construction of the accommodation and if thecourt  wrongly	decided	 that  fact  and  thereby  conferredjurisdiction  upon  itself  which it  did  not	possess,  itexercised jurisdiction not vested in it and the matter	fellwithin	the  rule  laid down by the  Privy  Council  in	 JoyChandlal  Babu v. Kamalaksha Chaudhury (1).  The High  Courthad  the  power to interfere and once it had  the  power  itcould  determine  whether  the	question  of  the  date	  ofconstruction was rightly or wrongly decided. The High  Courtheld  that  the	 Civil Judge had wrongly  decided  that	 theconstruction  was  of  a  date	after  June  30,  1946,	 andtherefore fell within s. 3-A.In these circumstances the appeal must fail and is dismissedwith costs throughout.Appeal dismissed.(1) (1949) L.R- 76 I.A. 131.748