PETITIONER:B. N. NAGARAJAN AND ORS.	Vs.RESPONDENT:STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS. ETC.DATE OF JUDGMENT:03/05/1959BENCH:KOSHAL, A.D.BENCH:KOSHAL, A.D.KRISHNAIYER, V.R.KAILASAM, P.S.CITATION: 1979 AIR 1676		  1979 SCR  (3) 937 1979 SCC  (4) 507 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1991 SC 764	 (9,10)ACT:     Mysore Government	Servants (Seniority) Rules 1957 Rule2 read	with  Rule  2  of  the	Mysore	Government  Servants(Probation) Rules 1957-Scope of.     Consititution of  India, Art.  226-Whether the scope ofthe Writ Petition be  limited to the prayer portion alone?HEADNOTE:     In the  new State	of Mysore (Now Karnatake) which cameinto existence	on 1-11-56 as a result of integration of theareas which  formed part  of  erstwhile	 States	 of  Mysore,Madras, Coorg,	Bombay and Hyderabad, the Government on 6-2-58,  7-2-58   and  2-12-60   respectively  promulgated	 thefollowing  Rules  (all	framed	under  Article	309  of	 theConstitution)  namely,	 "The  Mysore	Government  Servants(Probation) Rules  1957,  "The	Mysore	Government  Servants(Seniority)  Rules   1957  and	 "The  Mysore  Public  WorksEngineering Department	Services (Recruitment)	Rules, 1960"The recruitment	 Rules envisaged  appointment  of  AssistantEngineers  in	the  Public   Works  Department	  by  directrecruitment to	the extent  of 40%  and by promotion for therest viz.  50% from  the cadre	of Junior  Engineers and 10%from the  cadre	 of  supervisors.  The	cadre  of  AssistantEngineers was  to consist of 344 permanent and 345 temporaryposts.     Prior to  1-11-56 in the merged States, there was a nongazetted class	designated as graduate supervisors in MysoreState, as  Junior Engineers  in	 the  Madras  State  and  assupevisors in  the States of Bombay and Hyderabad. The claimof the	graduate supervisors  who were	given charge of sub-divisions prior	 to 1-11-56  and continued  to hold the sameeven thereafter,  for equation	of their posts with those ofAssistant Engineers, was rejected by the Central Government.However, on  15-11-58, 167  of them  (including 107 graduatesupervisors from  Mysore) and  between the  period 2nd	Dec.1958 and  13th October	'60, 299  more persons	of the	sameclass were promoted as officiating Assistant Engineers. Withreference  to  three  notifications  of	 the  Mysore  PublicService Commission  dt. 1-10-58,  4-5-59 and  1-4-61, eightyeight candidates  were appointed  on 31st  Oct.' 61,  i.e. 8days after  the amendement  of the  Recruitment Rules givingthem  retrospective   effect  from   1st  March	  1958,	  asProbationary Assistant	Engineers by direct recruitment. Thechallenge to  their appointment	 was ultimately	 rejected bythis Court  in B.  N. Nagarajan	 v. State  of Mysore & Ors.,[1966] 3  S.C.R.  p.  682  holding  that  their	 appointmentalthough made  after the  Recruitment Rules  had  come	intoforce, were  valid, as the process of direct recruitment hadbeen set  in motion  by the  State Government in exercise ofits executive power under Article 162 of the Constitution ofIndia well before the Recruitment Rules were promulgated andthat  these   appointments  were   therefore,  "outside	 theRecruitment Rules".     In the  year 1971	various orders were passed promotingsome of	 the direct  recruits  to  the	posts  of  ExecutiveEngineers and those orders were challenged by938the promotees  on  the	ground	that  they  had	 been  givenpromotions "on	regular basis" which amounted to substantiveappointments and  that therefore  they should rank senior tothe direct  recruits. Subsequent to the issue on 4-9-73 of arevised seniority  list snperseding the list (G) prepared on28-9-72 further	 writ petitions were filed by the promotees.All the	 petitions were heard together by the High Court andallowed with the following directions:     (i) Promotees  other than	those covered  by  direction(ii) and direct recruits, would not be governed by the quotasystem as envisaged in the Recruitment Rules.     (ii) Promotees who were appointed to posts of AssistantEngineers with	effect from  1st of  March  1958,  or  laterdates, would be governed by the quota system as envisaged inthe Recruitment Rules.     (iii) Promotees  appointed as Assistant Engineers priorto 31st	 October  1961	would  rank  senior  to	 the  directrecruits whose appointments were made on that date.     (iv) The  claim of	 each of  the promotees	 to the nexthigher post  shall be  con sidered  with effect	 from a	 dayprior to  that on  which any officer found junior to him waspromoted.     Allowing the appeals by special leave, the Court^     HELD:     1. The  scope of  the writ	 petition was not limited tothq  question  of  preme  tion	of  Assistant  Engineers  asExecutive Engineers.  The attack on the seaiority list dated4th Sept.  1973 was  inherent in  the case  set	 up  by	 thepromotees, of  which it	 formed an  integral part. Though noprayer had  been made  by the  promotees to quash or rectifythe seniority  list dated  4th September  1973, their  wholecase was based on the contention that they had been promotedto  the	 posts	of  Assistant  Engineers  in  a	 substantivecapacity prior	to the	appointment of direct recruits, thatthey would  take precedence  over  direct  recruits  in	 thematter of  seniority and  regular absorption in the cadre ofAssistant Engineers and that it was on that account that thepromoion of  direct  recruits  to  the	posts  of  ExecutiveEngineers without consideration of the case of the promoteesfor such promotion was illegal. [946E-G]     2. No  exception is  or can  be taken  on behalf of thepromotees to  the finding  arrived at by the High Court thatthe appointment of direct recruits to the posts of AssistantEngineers was  in order,  in view  of the  judgment of	thisCourt in B. N. Nagarajan v. State of Mysore, [1966] 3 SCR p.682. Nor  can it be urged with any plausibility on behalf ofdirect recruits	 that the  appointment of  the promotees  asAssistant  Engineers   prior  to   the	enforcement  of	 theRecruitment Rules  lay outside	the powers of the Governmentor was otherwise illegal. [946G-H, 947A]     V. B.  Badami and	Ors. v.	 State of  Mysore and  Ors.,[1976] 1  SCR 815 and B. N. Nagarajan v. State of Mysore andOrs., [1966] 3 SCR 682; followed.     3. A  combined reading of Rule 2 of the Seniority Rulesand the definition of the words "appointed on probation" and"Probationer" in  Rule 2  of the  Probation Rules,  makes itclear that the direct recruits were appointed as Assistant939Engineers, "substantively  in clear  vacancies" as envisagedby clause  (a) of  rule 2  of the Seniority Rules. If any ofthe promotees  also satisfied  that requirement	 at any timeearlier to  the 31st  of October 1961, he would be bracketedwith the direct recruits under that clause and his seniorityvis-a-vis those recruits would then be govened by clause (b)of the	rule i.e.,  on the basis of his and their respectivedates of  confirmation. If,  on the  other hand, none of thepromotees can  be said	to have been appointed substantivelyin a  clear vacancy,  clause (a)  aforesaid  would  have  noapplication to	them and  all  direct  recruits	 would	ranksenior to them. [947G-H, 948A-B]     4. In the instant case, all through the relevant periodthe promotees  held appointments  as Assistant	Engineers innon-substantive capacity,  i.e., either on an officiating ora temporary  basis. This  being the position, they would allrank junior to the direct recruits who, from the very start,held appointments  made "substantively	in clear vacancies".[950H, 951A]     (a) The language employed in the first order dated 15thNovember  1958	(Ex.A)	appointing  promotees  as  AssistantEngineers makes	 it clear  that the  promotion	of  the	 167officers  was  not  substantively  made,  the  tenure  beingspecifically stated  to be  either "officiating"  or "purelytemporary" and	"subject to review after the finalisation ofthe  inter   se	 seniority   list  of  supervisors  and	 theRecruitment  Rules",   which  expressions  clearly  militateagainst a substantive appointment. [948E-G]     (b) Orders	 made by the State Government later on rightupto the  31st October,	 1961 when  the direct recruits wereappointed  as	Assistant  Engineers  did  not	improve	 theposition of any of the promotees in any manner. These orderswere either  silent on the point of the nature of the tenureof the	promotees as  Assistant Engineers,  or stoted  in nouncertain terms	 that the  promotees would hold the posts ofAssistant Engineers  on a  temporary or	 officiating  basis.[948G-H. 949A]     (c) The two Notifications dated 27th February 1962, andorder Exhibit  (D).  dated  6th	 October  1962-the  combinedeffect of  which was  to promote  the said  107 officers  asAssistant Engineers  with effect  from 1st  of November 1956"on  a	regulaur  basis"  do  not  give	 it  the  colour  ofpermanence to the appointments of the promotees as AssistantEngineers which cannot therefore be deemed to have been madesubstantively right  from the  1st of  November 1956 for tworeasons; Firstly, the words "regular" or "regularisation" donot connote permanence. They are terms calculated to condoneany procedural	irregularities and  are meant  to cure	onlysuch defects as are attributable to the methodology followedin making  the appointments.  Secondly,	 when  rules  framedunder Article 309 of the Constitution of India are in force,no  regularisation   is	 permissible   in  exercise  of	 theexecutive powers of the Government under Article 162 thereofin contravention  of the Rules. The regularisation order wasmade long after the Probation Rules. the Seniority Rules andthe  Recruitment   Rules  were	promulgated  and  could	 nottherefore direct something which would do violence to any ofthe provisions	thereof. Regularisation in the present case,if it  meant permanence	 operative from the 1st of November,1956 would  have the effect of giving seniority to promoteesover the  direct  recruits  who,  in  the  absence  of	suchregularisation. would  rank senior  to the former because ofthe Seniority Rules read with the Probation Rules and may inconsequence also confer on the promotees a right of priorityin the	matter of  sharing the	quota under  the RecruitmentRules. In940other words,  the regularisation  order,  in  colouring	 theappointments  of   promotees  as  Assistant  Engineers	withpermanence would  run counter  to  the	rules  framed  underArticle 309  of the Constitution of India. What could not bedone under the three sets of Rules as they stood, would thusbe achieved  by an  executive fiat. And such a course is notpermissible because  an act  done in  the  exercise  of	 theexecutive power	 of the	 Government, cannot  override  rulesframed under Article 309 of the Constitution. [949B-D, 950D-G]     State of  Mysore and Anr. v. S. V. Naraynaswami, [1967]1 SCR 128 and R. N. Nanjundappa v. T. Thimmiah, [1972] 2 SCR799; applied.     The Court	made it	 clear (a) "that this order does notcover such  officers as	 were holding the posts of AssistantEngineers on  a	 substantive  basis  prior  to	the  1st  ofNovember, 1956	when the  new State  of Mysore	now known asKarnataka came	into being,  and the  case of  any AssistantEngineer who  acquired a  substantive status  prior  to	 thepromulgation of the Recruitment Rules and the appointment ofthe direct  recruits; (b)  that persons falling within thesetwo categories	will first  have to  be accommodated  in theclear vacancies	 available and	only the remaining vacancieswill have  to be utilised for fitting in the direct recruitsand the Assistant Engineers who have disputed their claim inthese proccedings;  and (c)  that the  quota rule  will	 notstand in  the way  of the  Government giving  effect to thisarrangement which  has been taken care of in the anemendment(promulgated on the 23rd of October 1961) to the RecruitmentRules"].JUDGMENT:     CIVIL APPELLATE  JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 2329 of1977.     Appeal by	Special Leave  from the	 Judgment and  Orderdated 30-11-1976  of the  Karnataka High  Court in  W.P.  No2307/71.	       CIVIL APPEAL NOS. 2330-2350/77     Appeals by	 Special Leave	from the  Judgment and Orderdated 30-11-1976  of the  Karnataka High  Court in W.P. Nos.2307/71, 796/72,  and 462-467, 553-560, 943, 944, 1033, 1027and 1032/73; and	       CIVIL APPEAL NOS. 2351-2370/77     Appeals by	 Special Leave	from the  Judgment and Orderdated 30-11-1976  of the  Karnataka High  Court in W.P. Nos.462-467, 553-560, 796, 943,944, 1027, 1033/73.     P. Ram  Reddy and	S. S. Javali for the Appellant in CA2329/77.     F. S. Nariman, B. P. Singh and A. K. Srivastava for theAppellants in C.A. Nos. 2351-2370/77.     L. N.  Sinha and  Narayan Nettar  for the Appellants inC.A. 2330 to 2370/77.     A. K.  Sen, Muralidhar  Rao and  P. R. Ramasesh for RR.2,3,5, and 7 in C.A. 2329/77.     P. R.  Ramasesh for RR/Promotees in CA 2330-2350/77 andRR in C.A. 2352-2370/77.941     Y. S. Chitale, M. Muralidhar Rao, P. R. Ramasesh and S.S. khanduja, for the RR in C.A. 2351/77.     The Judgment of the Court was delivered by     KOSHAL, J.-By  this judgment  we shall  dispose  of  42appeals by special leave, namely, Civil Appeals Nos. 2329 to2370 of	 1977, all  of which are directed against a judgmentdated the  30th November,  1976 of  a Division	Bench of theHigh Court of Karnataka. Civil Appeals Nos. 2329 and 2351 to2370 of	 1977 have  been filed by different persons who wereappointed Assistant Engineers in the Karnataka State on 31stOctober, 1961,	by way of direct recruitment while the other21 appeals have been filed by that State.     2. The  facts giving  rise to the impugned judgment maybe set	down in some detail. A new State came into existenceon the	1st of	November, 1956 as a result of integration ofthe areas  which formed	 part of  the  erstwhile  States  ofMysore, Madras,	 Coorg, Bombay	and  Hyderabad	(hereinafterreferred to  as the  Merged States).  It was  then given thename of	 one of	 its  constituents,  namely,  the  State  ofMysore, which  was later  changed to  that of  the KarnatakaState. In  the Public Works Departments of the Merged Statesthere was  a class  of non-gazetted  officers ranking  belowAssistant Engineers.  The class	 was designated	 as GraduateSupervisors  in	 the  Merged  State  of	 Mysore,  as  JuniorEngineers in  the Merged  State of Madras and as Supervisorsin the	Merged States  of Hyderabad and Bombay. The GraduateSupervisors were paid a fixed salary of Rs. 225/- per mensemwhich was  lower by  Rs. 25/-  per mensem as compared to thestarting salary	 of Assistant  Engineers, who, in the normalcourse, were  expected to head sub-divisions. To the post ofAssistant Engineer  a Graduate Supervisor was appointed onlyon promotion.     Prior to  the  1st	 of  November,	1956,  quite  a	 fewGraduate Supervisors  were given charge of sub-divisions anddesignated as  Sub Divisional  Officers in order to meet theexigencies of  service and  they continued  to act  as	suchafter the  merger when	they claimed equation of their postswith  those   of  Assistant   Engineers	 in  the  matter  ofintegration of	services. To  begin  with  their  claim	 wasturned down  by the Central Government who equated the postsof Graduate  Supervisors with  the posts of Junior Engineersof the	Merged State  of Madras and the posts of Supervisorsof the Merged States of Hyderabad and Bombay.     By a  notification dated the 6th of February, 1958, theGovernment of  Karnataka (then	known as  the Government  ofMysore)942promulgated  the   Mysore  Government  Servants	 (Probation)Rules, 1957  (hereinafter called the Probation Rules) and onthe next  day came into force the Mysore Government Servants(Seniority) Rules,  1957 (hereinafter  referred	 to  as	 theSeniority Rules),  both having been framed under Article 309of the Constitution of India.     On the  1st of  October,  1958,  the  Karnataka  PublicService Commission  invited applications from candidates forappointment to	the posts  of Assistant	 Engineers by directrecruitment.     In the  meantime Graduate	Supervisors  and  Governmentemployees holding  equivalent posts  had continued  to presstheir claim  for the  equation of their posts with the postsof Assistant Engineers and they succeeded partially when, onthe  15th   of	November,  1958,  the  Karnataka  Governmentpromoted 167 of them (including 107 Graduate Supervisors whohad been  working as  such in the Merged State of Mysore) asofficiating Assistant  Engineers with  immediate effect. Thepromotion was  notified in  the State Gazette dated the 20thof November,  1958 (Exhibit  A) the relevant portion whereofmay be reproduced for facility of reference:	  "....... The following supervisors of Public WorksDepartment are	promoted as  officiating Assistant Engineerswith immediate	effect and  until further orders against theexisting vacancies  subject to review after the finalisationof the	Inter-Se Seniority List of Supervisors and the Cadreand  Recruitment  Rules	 of  Public  Works  Department.	 Thepromotion of  officers	from  Sl.  No.	74  to	167  againstexisting vacancies  will be  purely  on	 a  temporary  basispending filling up of the vacancies by Direct Recruitment asper rules.  The Seniority  inter se of the Promotees will beprovisional according  to the order given below : ..........".     299 more persons of the same class were promoted to theposts  of   Assistant  Engineers   by  eight   notificationspublished during  the period  from 22nd of December, 1958 tothe 13th of October, 1960.     On	 the   21st  (31st?)  of  August,  1960,  the  StateGovernment passed  an order  in regard	to the	107 GraduateSupervisors from  the Merged  State of	Mysore and mentionedabove, directing that they be treated as Assistant Engineersand be	paid the pre-revision scale of pay of Rs. 250-25-450from the 1st of November, 1956 to the 31st of December, 1956and the	 revised scale	of pay of Rs. 250-25-450-30-600 fromthe 1st of January, 1957 onwards. The order further directedthat the  said 107  officers shall be placed in the inter-seseniority list below the Assistant Engineers.943     On the  3rd of December, 1960, the Karnataka Governmentpromulgated the	 Mysore Public	Works Engineering DepartmentServices (Recruitment)	Rules, 1960 (hereinafter referred toas  the	  Recruitment  Rules)	under  Article	309  of	 theConstitution  of   India,  which  envisaged  appointment  ofAssistant Engineers in the Public Works Department by directrecruitment to	the extent  of 40  per cent and by promotionfor the	 rest, viz.,  50 per  cent from	 the cadre of JuniorEngineers and 10 per cent from the cadre of Supervisors. Thecadre of  Assistant Engineers  was stated  in the  Rules  toconsist of 344 permanent and 345 temporary posts.     On the  23rd of  October, 1961,  the Recruitment  Ruleswere amended  so as  to be  operative retrospectively  i.e.,with effect from the 1st of March, 1958.     On the  31st  of  October,	 1961,	88  candidates	wereappointed as  Probationary  Assistant  Engineers  by  directrecruitment.     Two notifications	were issued  by the State Governmenton the	27th of	 February, 1962.  By each  one of  them	 231Junior	Engineers   were  given	  "regular  promotions"	  asAssistant Engineers with effect from specified dates fallingwithin the  period 15th	 of November,  1958 to	the 10th  ofNovember, 1960.	 The first  of	these  notifications  statedinter alia:	  "....... However,  the promotions  are subject  toreview after  finalisation of  the interse Seniority List ofJunior Engineers....."The second  of the  notifications  issued  on  the  27th  ofFebruary. 1962,	 mentioned that	 the officers  named thereinwould be  deemed to be temporarily promoted and permitted tocontinue  to   officiate  as   Assistant  Engineers   on   aprovisional basis and until further orders.     The case  of the  said 107	 officers  received  furtherconsideration at  the hands of the State Government, who, onthe 6th	 of October,  1962, issued another order (Exhibit D)superseding the	 one dated  the 31st  of August,  1960,	 andpromoting them	as Assistant  Engineers with effect from the1st of November, 1956.     By	 the   24th  of	  September,  1966,  the  number  ofProbationary Assistant	Engineers appointed  through  directrecruitment (hereinafter  called direct recruits) had fallento 85  for reasons which need not be stated. On that day theState Government passed an order that they had all completedtheir period  of probation satisfactorily and stood absorbedagainst substantive  vacancies with  effect from  the 1st ofNovember, 1962.944     In 1971  various orders  were passed  promoting some ofthe direct  recruits to the posts of Executive Engineers andthose orders  were challenged  in a  writ petition dated the15th of	 September, 1971,  by the  promotees to the posts ofAssistant  Engineers   (hereinafter  referred	to  as	 thepromotees).     On the  28th of  September, 1972, a list (Exhibit G) ofAssistant Engineers  indicating their  seniority inter se ason the	1st of	November, 1959,	 was prepared  by the  StateGovernment.  In	  that	list  the  promotees  were  accordedseniority to  their satisfaction.  However,  that  list	 wassuperseded by another list dated the 4th of September, 1973,in which  the seniority	 inter se of all Assistant Engineersfunctioning in	the State  Public Works Department as on 1stof January,  1973 was  declared. The  new list	purported tohave been  framed in  accordance with the Recruitment Rules.Objections to  the list	 were invited  and were submitted byvarious officers.     During the	 year 1973  more writ  petitions challengingthe promotion  of direct  recruits to the posts of ExecutiveEngineers were	instituted by  the promotees on whose behalftwo claims were made before the High Court, namely:	  (1)  that they  had  been  regularly	promoted  asAssistant  Engineers   against	substantive  vacancies	withretrospective effect and rightly so; and	  (2)  that in	the case  of  those  of	 them  whosepromotion was made effective from a date prior to the 1st ofMarch, 1958,  the Recruitment  Rules, especially  the  quotarule, could not affect them adversely.Both these claims were accepted by the High Court, the firston the	basis of  the decision	of this Court in Ram PrakashKhanna &  others v.  S. A.  F.	Abbas(1)  coupled  with	 thepleadings of  the parties  and the  various orders issued bythe State  Government and mentioned above, and the second onthe authority  of another  decision of	this Court  in V. B.Badami &  others v.  State of  Mysore &	 others(2). The HighCourt accordingly  held that  the quota	 rule would  not  beattracted to  the case	of  those  promotees  who  had	beenappointed to  the posts	 of Assistant  Engineers with effectfrom a	date prior  to the  1st of  March, 1958. By way of a'clarification'	 the  High  Court  further  ruled  that	 thepromotion of the 107 officers working in the Merged State of945Mysore was  made to substantive posts of Assistant Engineerswith effect  from the  1st of  November, 1956,	and that theState Government or the direct recruits could not be allowedto urge	 to the	 contrary. According  to the High Court suchpromotion was  subject to  review only	if  the	 course	 waswarranted and  necessitated by	the final inter se senioritylist of	 Junior Engineers,  the right  to review having beenreserved by  the Government  in its orders dated the 27th ofFebruary, 1962.	 In relation to the direct recruits the HighCourt made  a reference	 to the judgment of this Court in B.N. Nagarajan  v. State	of Mysore & others(1) wherein it washeld  that  their  appointments,  although  made  after	 theRecruitment Rules  had come  into force,  were valid, as theprocess of  direct recruitment had been set in motion by theState Government  in exercise  of its executive powers underarticle 162  of the  Constitution of  India well  before theRecruitment  Rules   were   promulgated	  and	that   thoseappointments were therefore "outside the Recruitment Rules".The High  Court consequently  held that	 the direct recruitswere also  not subject	to the	quota rule  which could not,according to it, affect them adversely.     Summing  up,   the	 High	Court  gave   the  followingdirections:	  (1)  Promotees  other	  than	those	covered	  bydirection (2)  and direct  recruits would not be governed bythe quota system as envisaged in the Recruitment Rules.	  (2)  Promotees who  were  appointed  to  posts  ofAssistant Engineers with effect from the 1st of March, 1958,or later  dates, would	be governed  by the  quota system asenvisaged in the Recruitment Rules.	  (3)  Promotees appointed Assistant Engineers priorto the	31st of	 October, 1961,	 would rank  senior  to	 thedirect recruits whose appointments were made on that date.	  (4)  The claim  of each  of the  promotees to	 thenext higher  post shall be considered with effect from a dayprior to  that on  which any officer found junior to him waspromoted.     3. The  first contention  we would like to deal with isone raised  by Mr.  F. S.  Nariman appearing  for the directrecruits. He  argued that  the scope  of the  writ petitionsinstituted by  the promotees  was limited to the question ofpromotion of  Assistant Engineers as Executive Engineers andthat no	 challenge to  the seniority  list dated  the 4th ofSeptember, 1973 could be entertained.  In this connection946reference was  made to	the prayer  clause appearing in WritPetition No. 462 of 1973 which is in the following terms:	  "In this  writ petition,  it is  prayed that	thisCourt may be pleased to:	  (1)  quash the promotion of respondents 2 to 31 tothe cadre  of Executive Engineers made as per order dated 3-2-1973;	  (2)  direct the  respondent 1 to consider the caseof the	petitioner for	promotion to  the cadre of ExecutiveEngineers  with	  effect  from	 3-2-1973  on	which	daterespondents 2 to 31 were promoted; and	  (3)  pass  an	  interim  order,   restraining	 therespondent 1  from making  further promotion to the cadre ofExecutive Engineers  without considering  the  case  of	 thepetitioner for such promotion, pending disposal of this writpetition."     (It was  assumed at the hearing of the appeals that theprayer made  in the  other writ	 petitions is  to a  similareffect).     It is  true  that	no  prayer  has	 been  made  by	 thepromotees to  quash or	rectify the seniority list dated the4th of	September, 1973,  but then their whole case is basedon the	contention that	 they had been promoted to the postsof Assistant  Engineers in  a substantive  capacity prior tothe appointment of the direct recruits, that they would takeprecedence over	 direct recruits  in the matter of seniorityand regular  absorption in  the cadre of Assistant Engineersand that it was on that account that the promotion of directrecruits  to   the  posts  of  Executive  Engineers  withoutconsideration  of   the	 case  of  the	promotees  for	suchpromotion was illegal. The attack on the said seniority listtherefore is  inherent in  the case set up by the promotees,of which  it forms  an integral	 part. In  this view  of thematter we  cannot agree	 with Mr.  Nariman that the scope ofthe writ petitions is limited as stated by him.     4. No  exception is  or can  be taken  on behalf of thepromotees to  the finding  arrived at by the High Court thatthe appointment of direct recruits to the posts of AssistantEngineers was  in order,  in view  of the  judgment of	thisCourt in  B. N. Nagarajan v. State of Mysore(supra). Nor canit be  urged with  any	plausibility  on  behalf  of  directrecruits that the appointment of the promotees as Assistant947Engineers prior	 to the enforcement of the Recruitment Ruleslay outside  the powers	 of the	 Government or was otherwiseillegal. The  real dispute  between the	 direct recruits andthe promotees  revolves round the quality of the tenure heldby the	latter immediately  prior to  the enforcement of theRecruitment Rules  and that  is so  because of	the languageemployed in  rule 2  of the  Seniority Rules.  The  relevantportion of that rule is extracted below:	  "2.  Subject	 to   the   provisions	 hereinaftercontained, the	seniority of  a person in a particular cadreof service or class of post shall be determined as follows:	  (a)  Officers	 appointed  substantively  in  clearvacancies shall	 be  senior  to	 all  persons  appointed  onofficiating or	any other basis in the same cadre of serviceor class of post;	  (b)  The seniority  inter se	of officers  who areconfirmed  shall   be  determined   according  to  dates  ofconfirmation, but  where the date of confirmation of any twoofficers is  the same,	their  relative	 seniority  will  bedetermined by  their seniority inter se while officiating inthe same post and if not, by their seniority inter se in thelower cadre;	  (c)  Seniority inter	se of  persons appointed  ontemporary basis	 will be  determined by	 the dates  of theircontinuous officiation in that grade and where the period ofofficiation is	the same the seniority inter se in the lowergrade shall prevail.	  Explanation.......................................	  (d)............"Now in	so far	as the	direct recruits,  are concerned theywere appointed	as  Probationary  Assistant  Engineers,i.e.,Assistant Enginers  "appointed on  probation" which  term isdefined in rule 2 of the Probation Rules. That rule states"	  "2. For the purpose of these rules :-	  (1)  "Appointed on  Probation" means	appointed ontrial in or against a substantive vacancy.	  (2)  "Probationer"  means   a	 Government  servantappointed on  probation. A  Government servant	so appointed(and continuing in service) remain a probationer until he isconfirmed."948In view	 of these definitions it cannot be gainsaid that thedirect	 recruits   were   appointed   Assistant   Engineers"substantively in  clear vacancies"  as envisaged  by clause(a) of	rule 2	of  the	 Seniority  Rules.  If	any  of	 thepromotees  also	 satisfied  that  requirement  at  any	timeearlier to  the 31st of october, 1961, he would be bracketedwith the direct recruits under that clause and his seniorityvis-a-vis those recruits would the be governed by clause (b)of the	rule, i.e., on the basis of his and their respectivedates of  confirmation. If,  on the  other hand, none of thepromotees can  be said	to have been appointed substantivelyin a  clear vacancy,  clause (a)  aforesaid  would  have  noapplication to	them and  all  direct  recruits	 would	ranksenior to  them; and it is in the ligrht of the said clauses(a) and (b) therefore that learned counsel for the State andthe direct  recruits have challenged the finding of the HighCourt that  the promotion of the 107 officers working in theMerged State  of Mysore	 was made  to substantive  posts  ofAssistant Engineers  with effect  form the  1st of November,1956 and  that the  State Government  or the direct recruitscould  not   be	 allowed   to  urge  to	 the  contrary.	 Thecontroversy has	 to be	resolved in  the light of the orderspassed by the State Government from time to time in relationto those officers and others similarly situated.     5. The  first order  appointing promotees	as AssistantEngineers is  dated the	 15th of November, 1958 (Exhibit A).That order  made, it clear that all the promotees covered byit were	 appointed officiating	Assistant Engineers and wereto hold	 office until further orders. The promotion was alsomade subject  to review	 after the finalisation of the interse seniority  list of Supervisors and the Recruitment Rules.The notification  went on to state that in the case of 94 ofthe  officers	promoted  under	 it,  their  appointment  asAssistant Engineers  was being	made on	 a purely  temporarybasis inasmuch	as they	 would	have  to  vacate  the  postsagainst which  they were being fitted, as soon as candidateswere available	through a process of direct recruitment. Thelanguage employed  leaves no doubt that the promotion of the167 officers  was not  substantively made,  the tenure beingspecifically stated  to be  either "officiating"  or "purelytemporary" which  expressions  clearly	militate  against  asubstantive appointment.     Orders made  by the State Government later on and rightupto the 31st of October, 1961 when the direct recruits wereappointed Assistant  Engineers did  not improve the positionof any	of the	promotees in  any manner.  Those orders wereeither silent  on the  point of	 the nature of the tenure ofthe promotees as Assistant Engineers, or stated949in no  uncertain terms	that the  promotees would  hold	 theposts of  Assistant Engineers  on a temporary or officiatingbasis. That is why Dr. Chitaley and Mr. Sen, learned counselfor the	 promotees, mainly  placed their reliance on the twonotifications dated  the 27th  of February,  1962, and orderexhibit D  dated the  6th of  october,	1962,  the  combinedeffect of  which was  to promote  the said  107 officers  asAssistant Engineers  with effect  from the  1st of November,1956  "on   a  regular	 basis".  It  was  argued  that	 theregularisation of  the	promotion  gave	 it  the  colour  ofpermanence  and	  the  appointments   of  the  promotees  asAssistant Engineers  must therefore  be deemed	to have beenmade substantively right from the 1st of November, 1956. Theargument however  is unacceptable  to us  for  two  reasons.Firstly the  words  "regular"  or  "regularisation"  do	 notconnote permanence. They are terms calculated to condone anyprocedural irregularities  and are  meant to  cure only suchdefects as  are attributable  to the methodology followed inmaking the  appointments. They	cannot be construed so as toconvey an  idea of the nature of tenure of the appointments.In this	 connection reference  may with advantage be made toState of  Mysore and  Another v. S. V. Narayanappa(1) and R.N. Nanjundappa	v. T. Thimmiah and Another(2). In the formerthis Court observed:	  "Before we  proceed to  consider the	constructionplaced by the High Court on the provisions of the said orderwe may	mention that  in the  High Court  both	the  partiesappear	 to   have   proceeded	 on   an   assumption	thatregularisation meant  permanence. Consequently	it was nevercontended before  the High  Court that	the  effect  of	 theapplication of	the said  order would mean only regularisingthe appointment	 and no	 more and  that regularisation wouldnot mean that the appointment would have to be considered tobe permanent  as an  appointment to be permanent would stillrequire confirmation.  It seems	 that  on  account  of	thisassumption on  the part	 of both  the parties the High Courtequated regularisation with permanence."In Nanjundappa's case also the question of regularisation ofan appointment arose and this Court dealt with it thus:	  "........ Counsel  on	 behalf	 of  the  respondentcontended that	regularisation	would  mean  conferring	 thequality of  permanence on the appointment whereas counsel onbehalf950     of the State contended that regularisation did not meanpermanence but	that it	 was a case of regularisation of therules  under   Article	309.   Both  the   contentions	 arefallacious. It	the appointment	 itself is  in infraction ofthe rules  or if it is in violation of the provisions of theConstitution illegality	 cannot be regularised. Ratificationor regularisation  is possible of an act which is within thepower and  province of the authority but there has been somenon-compliance with procedure or manner which does not to tothe root  of the  appointment. Regularisation cannot be saidto be  a mode  of recruitment. To accede to such propositionwould be  to introduce a new head of appointment in defianceof rules  or it may have the effect of setting at naught therules."     Apart from repelling the contention that regularisationconnotes permanence,  these observations  furnish the secondreason for  rejection of  the argument advanced on behalf ofthe promotees  and that	 reason is  that when  rules  framedunder article 309 of the Constitution of India are in force,no  regularisation   is	 permissible   in  exercise  of	 theexecutive powers of the Government under article 162 thereofin contravention  of the rules. The regularisation order wasmade long after the Probation Rules, the Seniority Rules andthe  Recruitment   Rules  were	promulgated  and  could	 nottherefore direct something which would do violence to any ofthe provisions	thereof. Regulaisation	in the present case,if it  meant permanence	 operative from the 1st of November,1956, would have the effect of giving seniority to promoteesover the  direct  recruits  who,  in  the  absence  of	suchregularisation, would  rank senior  to the former because ofthe Seniority Rules read with the Probation Rules and may inconsequence also confer on the promotees a right of priorityin the	matter of  sharing the	quota under  the RecruitmentRules.	In   other  words,   the  regularisation  order,  incolouring  the	 appointments  of   promotees  as  AssistantEngineers with	permanence would  run counter  to the  rulesframed under  article 309 of the Constitution of India. Whatcould not  be done  under the  three sets  of Rules  as theystood, would thus be achieved by an executive fiat. And sucha course  is not  permissible because  an act  done  in	 theexercise of the executive power of the Government as alreadystated, cannot	override rules	framed under  Article 309 ofthe Constitution.     The case has, for both the above reasons, to be decidedon the	footing that  all though  the  relevant	 period	 thepromotees held appointments as Assistant Engineers in a non-substantive capacity,  i.e. either  on an  officiating or  atemporary basis. This being the position,951they would  all rank junior to the direct recruits who, fromthe very  start, held  appointments made  "substantively  inclear vacancies."     6. We  may here  make it clear that this order does notcover such  officers as	 were holding the posts of AssistantEngineers on  a	 substantive  basis  prior  to	the  1st  ofNovember, 1956	when the  new State  of Mysore	now known asKarnataka came into being. Nor would it adversely affect thecase of	 any Assistant	Engineer who  acquired a substantivestatus prior  to the  promulgation of  the Recruitment Rulesand the	 appointment of the direct recruits. Persons fallingwithin	these	two  categories	  will	first	have  to  beaccommodated in	 the clear  vacancies available and only theremaining vacancies  will have to be utilised for fitting inthe direct  recruits and  the Assistant	 Engineers who	havedisputed their	claim in  these proceedings.  It may also bementioned that	the quota  rule will not stand in the way ofthe Government	giving effect  to this arrangement which hasbeen taken care of in the amendment (promulgated on the 23rdof October,  1961) to  the Recruitment	Rules. The  relevantportion of  that amendment  is contained  in item  3 thereofwhich is reproduced below:     "3. To  rule 2  of the following proviso shall be addedand shall be deemed always to have been added, namely-	  "Provided that in respect of direct recruitment ofAssistant Engineers for the first time under these rules thepercentages relating  to direct	 recruitment and recruitmentby promotion specified in column 2 of the Schedule shall notbe applicable  and the minimum qualifications and the periodof production shall be the following, namely-	  "Qualifications :......................"It is  common ground  between the  parties  that  the  postscomprised in the cadre of Assistant Engineers constituted bythe Recruitment Rules have yet to be filled in for the firsttime. The proviso extracted above therefore will apply fullyto the	utilization of	those vacancies	 as stated above. Itgoes without saying that all questions of seniority shall bedecided in  accordance with the Seniority Rules and that theRecruitment Rules,  as amended	from time  to time, shall befully implemented  as from  the date  of their	enforcement,i.e., 1st of March, 1958.     7. In  the result	we accept the appeals, set aside thejudgment of  the High  Court and  decide the dispute betweenthe parties  in accordance  with the  observations  made  inparagraphs 5 and 6 hereof.V.D.K.					    Appeals allowed.952