PETITIONER:SARDAR SAMSHER SINGH	Vs.RESPONDENT:RAJA SARDAR NARAIN AND OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:05/08/1960BENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASBENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASDAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.SHAH, J.C.AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALACITATION: 1960 AIR 1249ACT:Debt	 Relief--Decree	   on	  mortgage--Reduction	  ofinterest--Statute prohibiting allowing of interest exceedingprincipal  sum	due--Application  of--Relevant	date--U.  P.Encumbered  Estates  Act,  1934	 (U.  P.KXV  of	 1934),	  s.14(4)(a).HEADNOTE:N borrowed rupees one lakh from D on mortgage of a house andZamindari  interest on March 1, 1924.  Interest was  8%	 perannum  compoundable  with six monthly rests.   In  1932	 themortgagee  filed  a suit on the mortgage and  a	 decree	 waspassed	for the recovery of Rs. 1,83,781/5/9  principal	 andinterest  upto	the  date of the suit and  Rs.	49,280/	 2/6interest  from	date  of the suit upto the  date  fixed	 forpayment, with future interest at 6% per annum simple on	 theprincipal  sum.	 On the failure of the mortgagor to  pay  bythe date fixed a final decree was passed on May 9, 1935	 forsale  of  the  property	 for  recovery	of  a  sum  of	 Rs.2,37,503/5/6  which had become due.  On October 26, 1936,  Nmade  an  application  under s. 4 of the  U.  P.  EncumberedEstates Act, 1934, requesting that the-provisions of the Actbe  applied  to him.  Section 14(4)(a) of the  Act  providedthat " the amount of interest held to be due on the date  ofapplication  shall not exceed that portion of the  principalwhich  may  still  be found to be due on  the  date  of	 theapplication  ". N contended that in view of S.	14(4)(a),  Dwas not entitled to recover any sum as interest in excess ofthe  principal sum of rupees one lakh.	D contended that  itwas  not necessary to reopen the decree as the principle  ofs. 14(4)(a) had not been violated in passing the decree.Held, that the proper decree that should have been passed onthe  application was for rupees two lakhs for the  principaland  interest  plus  costs and interest	 pendente  lite	 andfuture interest at 4% per annum.  The words " on the date ofthe  application  "  in	 s. 14(4)(a) of	 the  Act  had	beendeliberately  used to benefit the applicant by reducing	 theinterest  to the amount of the principal found still due  onthe date of the application, whatever amount of interest maybe  due under the contract.  The fact that there had been  adecree did not make any difference in giving the benefit  ofthe section to the applicant.Pandit	Ramsagar Prasad v. Mst.	 Shayama, A.I.R.  1939	Oudh75, disapproved.Rukun-uddin  v.	 Lachhmi  Narain,  I.L.R.  1945	 All.	307,referred to.119JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 216 of 1954.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated September 26,1946,of  the	 former Chief Court of Avadh at	 Lucknow,  in  FirstAppeal No. 7 of 1940.Naunit Lal, for the appellant.S.   N.	 Andley, Rameshwar Nath, J. B. Dadachanji and P.  L.Vohra, for respondent No. 1.1960.  August 5. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byDAS   GUPTA   J.-This	appeal	raises	 the   question	  ofinterpretation	of s. 15 of the United Provinces  EncumberedEstates	 Act, 1934.  On March 1, 1924, Sardar  Nihal  Singh,the  predecessor of the appellant before us, borrowed a	 sumof rupees one lakh from Raja Durga Narain Singh, predecessorof  the respondents, on mortgage of a house  in	 Butlergunj,Lucknow and also the entire Zamindari interest in a  villageParsera.   Interest was 8 per cent. per annum compound	withsix monthly rests.  In 1932 Raja Durga Narain Singh  broughta  suit	 for  recovery of Rs.  1,83,791-5-9  on	 account  ofprincipal  and interest due on the mortgage, by sale of	 themortgaged  property.   In this suit the	 Subordinate  Judge,Lucknow, made a preliminary decree declaring the amount	 dueto the plaintiff on the mortgage calculated up to March	 29,1935, to be Rs. 1,83,791-5-9 up to the date of the suit, Rs.49,280-2-6  as	the  amount  due  on  account  of   interestthereupon from March 19, 1932, the date of the suit to March29, 1935, the date fixed for payment.  A sum of Rs. 4,314-2-9  was awarded as the cost of the suit.	 The  defendant	 wasordered	 to pay this total sum of Rs.  2,37,385-11-0  beforethe  29th day of March, 1935, with future interest at 6	 percent.  per annum simple on the principal sum of	 rupees	 onelakh.	The  amount not having been paid on that  date,	 theCourt on an application made by the mortgagee-decree. holdermade  a final decree on May 9, 1935, directing sale of	the-property  for recovery of the sum of Rs.  2,37,503-5-6	withfuture interest as in the preliminary decree,(this sum beingthe total of Rs. 2,37,305-11-0120of  the preliminary decree, Rs. 116-10-1 the  interest	fromMarch 30, 1935, and rupee one the cost of the final decree).An  application	 for revision under s. 115 of  the  Code  ofCivil Procedure in connection with this decree was  rejectedby  the Chief Court of Oudh on April 20,1937.  Before  this,on October 26, 1936, an application had been made by  SardarNihal Singh under s. 4 of the U. P. Encumbered Estates	Act,requesting  the provisions of the Act to be applied to	him.After  this  application came before the  Special  Judge  inaccordance  with  the  provisions of s.	 6,  the  mortgagee-decreeholder Raja Durga Narain Singh filed a written  state-ment of his claim on September 30,1937, and stated that	 theamount	due  to	 him  on the basis of  his  decree  was	 Rs.2,51,904-8-6 including Rs. 14,300 as interest subsequent  tothe  final decree till September 30, 1937, and a sum of	 Rs.51-3-0 the decree for costs in his favour by the Oudh  ChiefCourt	when  rejecting	 the  mortgagor's  application	 forrevision.   He prayed that a decree for Rs. 2,51,904-8-6  bepassed	in  his favour against the  applicant  Sardar  NihalSingh and his property.	 The applicant contested this  claimpleading  that	the  principal	amount	borrowed  from	 theclaimant being rupees one lakh the claimant was not entitledto  recover any sum as interest thereupon in excess  of	 theprincipal amount under s. 14 of the Encumbered Estates	Act.This  plea was rejected by the Special Judge who  held	thatthe claimant was entitled to Rs. 2,37,503-5-6 for which	 thefinal decree was passed, and also Rs. 51-3-0 as costs in thematter	of revision application and further to 6  per  cent.per annum interest on rupees one lakh from May 29, 1935, thedate  of the final decree till the date of  the	 applicationunder  the Encumbered Estates Act, i.e., October  26,  1936.Accordingly  he gave the claimant a simple money decree	 forRs.   2,46,338-8-6  with  proportionate	 costs	and   futureinterest  at the rate of 4 per cent. per annum	simple	fromthe date of application till realisation.On appeal, the Cheief Court of Oudh rejected the appellant'scontention that the Special Judge was bound by s. 14 of	 theAct to limit the decree to a sum121of  rupees  two lakhs only and held that in so	far  as	 thepreliminary decree found Rs. 1,83,791-5-9 as the amount	 dueon  the mortgage on March 29, 1932, it was not	inconsistentwith s. 14 of the Encumbered Estates Act, and so the SpecialJudge was bound to accept this finding under s. 15.  It heldhowever	 that  in  so far as this  decree  allowed  interestpendente  lite on the above amount from March 19,  1932,  toMarch  29, 1935, at 8% per annum, it was  inconsistent	withsub-s.	7 of s. 14.  The Chief Court accordingly  held	thatthis  interest	pendente  lite must be	reduced	 to  4	1/4%simple.	  After saying that a sum of Rs. 4,314-2-9 would  beadded  on  account of costs, rupee one should  be  added  onaccount	 of the costs of the final decree and Rs. 51-3-0  ascosts  of  a revision application, the Court held  that	 theprincipal  amount of Rs. 1,00,000 shall carry interest	fromMarch  29, 1935, till the date of application under s. 4  ofthe Encumbered Estates Act, viz., October 26, 1936, and thatthe  aggregate	of these figures shall carry  interest	fromOctober 27, 1936, till realisation at 4 per cent. per annum.It  directed a decree for the sum thus found to	 be  substi-tuted  for  that  passed  by  the  Subordinate	Judge.	  Anapplication for leave to appeal to the Privy Council againstthis decree was made on January 13, 1947.  This	 applicationwas  disposed  of  on  April 14,  1953.	  Holding  that	 thevaluation of the suit was well over Rs. 20,000 and the valueof  the appeal to the Supreme Court was Rs.  41,971-2-9	 theChief Court gave, in view of the modification made by it  inthe  lower  court's  decree, a	certificate  that  the	casefulfils	 the  requirements of s. 110 of the  Code  of  CivilProcedure  and that the applicant had a right to  appeal  tothe Supreme Court.  On the strength of that certificate	 thepresent appeal was filedWhen  the appeal came up for hearing before a Bench of	fourjudges	 of  this  Court  Mr.  Andley,	on  behalf  of	 therespondents  stated  that  in this case	 he  was  raising  aconstitutional point.  Thereupon the Court directed that thematter be posted before the Constitution Bench.	 That is howthe appeal has come up for hearing and final disposal beforeus.16122Mr.  Andley stated before us that the  Constitutional  pointwhich he had wanted to raise was whether the judgment of theChief  Court was one of affirmance under Art. 133(1) of	 theConstitution but that be did  not wish to pursue this point.As  Mr. Andley does not press his constitutional  point,  nofurther discussion of this is necessary.The real controversy in the case between the parties  is, asalready indicated, as regards the interpretation of s. 15 ofthe  Encumbered Estates Act.  The relevant portion of s.  15is in these words:-"In determining the amount due on the basis of a loan  whichhas  been  the subject of a decree the Special	Judge  shallaccept	the  findings of the Court which passed	 the  decreeexcept	in  so	far  as	 they  are  inconsistent  with	 theprovisions of s. 14."A later amendment by which after the words and figures "  s.14  ",	the  words " or s. 4 of the U.	P.  Zamindars  DebtsReduction  Act,	 1952 " were added is not relevant  for	 ourpurpose.  Section 14 runs as follows:" 14. (1) The Special  Judge shall, by an order in  writing,fix  a date for enquiring into the claims made in  pursuanceof  the	 notice published in accordance with s. 9  and	givenotice of such date to all the claimants and the person	 whomade the application under s. 4.(2)  The  Special Judge shall examine each claim  and  afterhearing such parties as desired to be heard and	 consideringthe  evidence, if any, produced by them shall determine	 theamount, if any, due from the landlord to the claimant on thedate of the application under s. 4.(3)  All  evidence recorded in any suit or proceeding  whichis stayed under sub-section (1) of section 7 may be taken bythe Special Judge as evidence recorded before himself.(4)  In	 examining each claim the Special Judge	 shall	haveand exercise all the powers of the Court in which a suit forthe recovery of the money due would lie and shall decide thequestions in issue on the principles as those on which	suchcourt	would	decide	them,  subject	to   the   followingprovisions, namely:-123(a)  the  amount of interest held to be due on the  date  ofthe  application  shall	 not  exceed  that  portion  of	 theprincipal which may still be found tobe due on the date of the application:(b)  the  provisions of the United Provinces  AgriculturistsRelief Act, 1934, shall not be applicableto proceedings tinder this Act.(5)  For  the  purpose of ascertaining the  principal  underclause	(a) of subsection (4) the Special Judge shall  treatas  principal  any  accumulated	 interest  which  has	beenconverted  into principal at any statement or settlement  ofaccount	 or  by	 any  contract made in	the  course  of	 thetransaction on or before December 31, 1916.Explanation:-Interest which on or before December 31,  1916,became	part  of the principal under the  express  terms  oforiginal  contract shall, for the purposes of this  section,be deemed to be principal.(6)  For  the purposes of ascertaining the  principal  underclause	(a) of sub-section (4) the Special Judge  shall	 nottreat  as principal any accumulated interest which has	beenconverted  into principal at any statement or settlement  ofaccounts  or  by  any contract made in	the  course  of	 thetransactions after December 31, 1916.(7)  If	 the Special Judge finds that any amount is  due  tothe  claimant he shall pass a simple money decree  for	suchamount,	 together  with	 any costs which  he  may  allow  inrespect	 of proceedings in his court and of  proceedings  inany  civil  court stayed under the provisions of  this	Act,together  with pendente lite and future interest at  a	ratenot greater than the rate specified in section 27, and if hefinds  that no amount is due he may pass a decree for  costsin  favour of the landlord.  Such decree shall be deemed  tobe  a decree of a civil court of competent jurisdiction	 butno  decree against the landlord shall be  executable  withinUttar Pradesh except under the provisions of the Act:Provided that no pendente lite interest shall be allowed  inthe case of any debt where the creditor was in possession ofany  portion  of the debtor's property in lieu	of  interestpayable on such debt."124Obviously there can be no question of any inconsistency in afinding of a court which has passed a decree on the basis ofa loan, with the provisions mentioned in sub-ss. 1, 2 & 3 ofs.  14; nor is there any question of any inconsistency	withthe  provisions	 of  sub-section  7  of	 s.  14,  as   thoseprovisions apply only after the Special Judge has found	 theamount due to the claimant and the question of inconsistencyof  any finding in the decree with the provisions of  s.  14arise under s. 15 at the stage when the amount due is  beingdetermined.   Sub-sections  4,	5 and 6	 of  s.	 14  howeverrequire	 careful  consideration of the Special	Judge,	whenexamining a decree of a Civil Court, to' find whether any ofthe  findings  of  the	court  is  inconsistent	 with  thoseprovisions.   If  they are inconsistent with  any  of  thoseprovisions  he has to reject the findings to the  extent  ofsuch inconsistency.  Thus, if for example, the provisions ofthe  Usurious  Loans Act. 1918, would be beneficial  to	 theapplicant   landlord   and   have  not	 been	taken	intoconsideration  by  the	court which passed  the	 decree	 theSpecial Judge will have to give effect to s. 14(4)(b) of theAct to modify the finding of the Court as regards the amountdue,  after  applying the provisions of the  Usurious  LoansAct.   On  the other hand, if the provisions of	 the  U.  P.Agriculturists	Relief Act, 1934, have been applied  by	 theCivil Court, the finding as regards the amount due in so faras the same was based on those provisions cannot, in view ofits  inconsistency with sub-s. 4(c) of s. 14 be accepted  bythe Civil Court and he will have to modify the same, leavingout  the provisions of the U. P. Agriculturists Relief	Act.Similarly if in arriving at the amount due, the Court  whichpassed	the decree has acted inconsistently with  sub-ss.  5and 6 of s. 14, the finding will have to be modified by	 theSpecial Judge by applying the provisions of sub-ss. 5 and 6.So, also if the finding of the Court which passed the decreeis " inconsistent with " the provisions of sub-s. 4(a) of s.14 of the Encumbered Estates Act the finding will have to berejected in so far as it is inconsistent.  The question thathas  arisen  in	 this case and may as well  arise  in  othercases, is whether when in ascertaining125the  amount due on the basis of a loan, at the date  of	 thesuit,  the  Court  which passed the  decree  did  not  allowinterest  exceeding the portion of the principal  which	 wasstill  due at the date of the suit, the finding	 as  regardsthe amount due is inconsistent with s. 14(4) (a) because theconsequence  of	 that  finding as regards  the	amount	due,together  with	interest allowed thereupon, is that  on	 thedate  of the application the amount of interest due  exceedsthe portion of the principal remaining unpaid on the date ofthe application.  On behalf of the decree-holder-claimant itis   contended	 that  all  that  is   necessary   to	saveinconsistency  with  sub-s. 14(4)(a) is that  the  principlethat  the amount of interest shall not exceed the amount  ofthe  unpaid  principal	has been followed,  in	passing	 thedecree and the fact that the result of the finding would  bethat  on the date of the application u/s. 4 of the  Act	 theinterest  due  would  exceed the portion  of  the  principalunpaid	on such date is of no consequence.  This  contentioncannot in our opinion be accepted.The requirement of sub-s. 4(a) of s. 14 is that " the amountof  interest held to be due on the date of  the	 applicationshall  not  exceed that portion of the principal  which	 maystill  be found to be due on the date of  the  application."The  words  "  on the date of the application  "  cannot  beignored.   There can be no doubt that these words "  on	 thedate of the application " were deliberately used in the sub-section for the purpose of benefiting the landlord applicantto  this extent that whatever interest due on  the  contractmay  amount  to,  it will be limited to the  amount  of	 theprincipal  found  still remaining due, on the  date  of	 theapplication.  When the Legislature goes further and providesthat  if prior to the application a decree has been made  onthe basis of the loan the findings of the Court which passedthe decree shall be accepted but forbids such acceptance  ifsuch  finding is inconsistent with the provisions of s.	 14,the intention clearly is that the fact that there has been adecree	will not make any difference as regards the duty  ofthe  Special Judge to give the applicant the benefit of	 theprovisions of s.    14.	 When the Court passed	the  decree,there was126no  application	 under the Encumbered Estates Act,  and	 so,there could be no question of the Court then complying	withthe  provisions of s. 14(4)(a).	 Even so, when	the  SpecialJudge  has  to	reject	such  of  the  findings	 as  are   "inconsistent  " with s. 14, he must find out the  effect  ofthe several findings of the court to ascertain whether thereis such inconsistency.	Where the consequence of the findingof the court which passed the decree is that the  provisionsof s. 14(4)(a) about the amount of interest due on the	dateof  the	 application not exceeding the unpaid  principal  onthat date are contravened, the finding should be held to  beinconsistent  with these provisions.  In saying that  if  inthe  decree the court did not allow interest as on the	dateof the suit to exceed the principal then remaining due thereis  no	inconsistency  with s.	14(4)(a),  the	respondent'scounsel is in effect asking us to read for the words " in sofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of s. 14  "the  words " in so far as they would have been	inconsistentwith the provisions of s. 14, if the date of the institutionof  the	 suit be deemed to be the date	of  the	 applicationunder s. 4." For this we cannot find any justification.	 Notonly  would  this  defeat  the	beneficial  purpose  of	 thelegislation under s. 14(4)(a); but this will also not be thenatural	 meaning  of  the  words " in so  far  as  they	 areinconsistent with the provisions of s. 14."The Chief Court's view that the Special Judge has merely  tosee  whether  the Civil Court that passed the  decree  couldhave  passed the decree which it did pass if that court	 hadhad  to apply the provisions of s. 14, treating the date  ofthe  institution of the suit as the date of the	 applicationcannot therefore be accepted as correct.  The same view	 hadbeen  taken  by	 the  Chief Court  of  Oudh  in	 an  earlierdecision, of Pandit Ramsagar Prasad v. Mst.  Shayama (1).  AFull Bench of the Allahabad High Court had in Rukun-uddin v.Lachhmi	 Narain	 (2)  to consider  the	question  whether  afinding in a decree made by a civil court that the  creditoris entitled to interest only at the rates specified in U. P.Agriculturists Relief Act was inconsistent with the(1) A.I.R. 1939 Oudh 75.(2) I.L.R. [1945] All. 307.127provisions of s. 14 of the U. P. Encumbered Estates Act	 andwas  therefore not binding on the Special Judge	 hearing  anapplication under the U. P. Encumbered.	 Estates Act.	Theyheld  that  such a finding must be held to  be	inconsistentwith  the  provisions of s. 14 and could  therefore  not  bebinding	 on the Special Judge.	There can be no doubt  aboutthe  correctness of this view, for, as has been pointed	 outabove s. 14(4)(c) provides that the provisions of the U.  P.Agriculturists	Relief	Act  shall  not	 be  applicable	  toproceedings  under the Encumbered Estates Act.	One  of	 thelearned	 judges Mr. Justice Verma referred with approval  inthe  course  of his judgment to the view taken	in  RamsagarPrasad's  Case (1).  For the reasons mentioned earlier	how-ever  we are of opinion that the view in  Ramsagar  Prasad'sCase  (1) which has been followed by the Chief Court in	 thepresent case is wrong.Our  conclusion therefore is that the Special Judge is	evenwhere there has been a decree by a civil court in respect ofa loan bound to follow the provisions of s. 14(4)(a) of	 theAct  so that the amount of interest which he can hold to  bedue  on	 the  date of the application must  not	 exceed	 theportion of the principal found to be due on the date of	 theapplication.   Accordingly in the present case	the  SpecialJudge  should have held the amount of interest due  oil	 thedate  of the application, i.e., October 26, 1936, to  amountto rupees one lakh only, that being the principal which	 wasstill due on that date.	 Under the provisions of sub-s. 7 ofs.  14 the Special Judge has to "pass a simple money  decreefor such amount, together with any costs which he may  allowin respect of proceedings in his court and of proceedings inany  civil  court stayed under the provisions of  this	Act,together  with pendente lite and future interest at  a	ratenot  greater  than the rate specified in s. 27." It  was  inview  of this provision that the special Judge and the	HighCourt  allowed	interest at the rate of 4% per	annum.	 Theproper decree the Special Judge should have passed thereforewas  one for rupees two lakhs for the loan with	 permissibleinterest, plus Rs. 4,314-2-9, Rs. 51-3-0 and rupee(1)  A.I.R. 1939 Oudh 75.128one  on	 account of costs, that is, for a total sum  of	 Rs.2,04,366-5-9   with   proportionate  costs   with   interestpendente lite and future interest at the rate of 4 per	centper  annum  simple from the date of the	 application,  i.e.,October 26, 1936, till realisation.Accordingly,  we  allow	 the appeal, set  aside	 the  decreepassed	by the courts below and order that in place  of	 thedecree made by the Trial Court be substituted a money decreein the terms as mentionedabove.The appellant will get his costs in the appeal.					  Appeal allowed.