PETITIONER:KAMLA PRASAD KHETAN	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE UNION of INDIA(and connected petitions)DATE OF JUDGMENT:01/05/1957BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)IMAM, SYED JAFFERMENON, P. GOVINDASARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  676		  1957 SCR 1052ACT:Industrial undertaking, control of-Central Government takingover  management by notified order--Amendment of such  orderby another-Validity-Like Conditions' Meaning  of-AppointmentOf  Controller-Bona  fides-The Industries  (Development	 andRegulation)  Act (LXV of 1951), as amended by Amending	Act,26 of 1953, ss. 18A, 15, 16-General Clauses Act (X of 1879),S. 21.HEADNOTE:By a notified order dated November s, 1955, the Governmentof   India  took over the management of certain Sugar  Millsunder s.  18A(i)(b)  of	 the  Industries  (Development	 andRegulation)  Act,  1951,  for one year and vested  it  in  aController.  This was preceded by an investigation under  s.15  of	the  Act and the Central  Government  had  materialsbefore it to be of the opinion that the management was beingconducted in a manner highly detrimental to the	 undertakingand to public interest.	 On November 7, 1956, this order wasamended extending the Controller's management for a  furtherperiod	of  two years.	It was contended on  behalf  of	 thepetitioners that the requirement of s. 18A(i)(b) of the	 Actnot  having  been satisfied before the	amending  order	 wasmade, the amendment was invalid and that, in any event,	 theappointment of the same person as the authorised  Controllerwas not bona fide.Held, per S. R. Das C.J., jafer Imam, S. K. Das and  GovindaMenon  JJ.that	s. 18A of the  Industries  (Development	 andRegulation)  Act, 1951, read with ss. 15 and 16 of  the	 Actand  properly  construed,  leaves  no  doubt  that  the	 twoconditions  mentioned  in cl. (b) of sub-s. (i) of  s.	18A,relating to investigation and mismanagement, must relate  toa period when the management of the undertaking was  legallyvested in its owner and once they are found to exist and themanagement  is taken over by the Government, the  conditionscontinue  to exist by their very nature till the  managementgoes  back to the owner; therefore, the amending order	alsofulfilled the same conditions subject to which the  originalorder was made.When  a	 notified order under the section is  sought  to  beamended	 by the application Of S. 21 of the General  ClausesAct,  'like conditions' mentioned in the latter section,  towhich  such order of amendment must be subject, are the	 twoconditions  relating  to  investigation	 and   mismanagementmentioned ins. 18A(i)(b) of the Industries (Development	 andRegulation) Act.1053Strawboard  Manufacturing Co. v. Gutta Mill  Workers'  Union(1953) S.C.R. 439, held inapplicable.The appointment of a suitable person as the Controller restsentirely   with	 the  Central  Government  and	 unless	  anappointment can be shown to have been made for any  ulteriorpurpose	 contrary to what the Statute has in view, its	bonafides is not open to question.Consequently,  in  the	instant	 case,	both  the   originalnotification and its amendment were valid in law.Per  Sarkar  J.'Like conditions' mentioned in S. 21  of	 theGeneral	 Clauses  Act,	when  applied  to  s.  18A  of	 theIndustries (Development and Regulation) Act, cannot mean thetwo  conditions mentioned in cl. (b) of sub-s. (1)  of	thatsection	 on the fulfillment of which the Central  Governmenthas  the  right to issue a notification, but must  mean	 thecondition  mentioned in sub-s. (2) of that section,  subjectto  which  alone the right to issue a  notification  can  beexercised, namely, that a notified order cannot have  effectfor  more  than five years and, consequently,  the  amendingorder  in  question which satisfied that condition  must  bevalid in law.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 54 of 1955.Petition  under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forthe enforcement of fundamental rights.   Purshottam Tricumdas, S. N. Andley, Rameshwar Nath, J. B.Dadachanji and P. L. Vohra, for the petitioner. ,C.   K.	 Daphtary,  Solicitor-General of  India,  Porus	 A-.Mehta and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.M.   L. Misra, Advocate-General, U.P., and C.P. Lal, for theIntervener.1957.	May 1. The Judgment of S. R. Das C. J., Jafer  Imam,S.  K. Das and Govinda Menon JJ. was delivered by S. K.	 DasJ. Sarkar J. delivered a separate judgment.S.   K. DAS J.On November 8, 1955, the Ministry of  Commerceand  Industry,	Government of India,  published	 a  notifiedorder,	 in  exercise  of  the	powers	conferred  on	thatGovernment by section 18A of the Industries (Development andRegulation)  Act, 1951, hereinafter referred to as the	Act,authorising  one Shri Kedar Nath Khetan of Padrauna,  calledthe1054authorised  Controller, to take over the management  of	 theIshwari	 Khetan	 Sugar	Mills  Ltd.,  Lakshmiganj,   Deoria,subject	 to  certain conditions.  The  order  as  originallypassed and published was to have effect for a period of	 oneyear only, commencing on the date of its publication in	 theofficial  gazette.   On	 November  7,  1956,  there  was  anamendment  of  that order.  The amendment was  published  innotification  No.  338-A of even date and stated  in  effectthat in stead and place of the words 'one year' occurring inthe order, the words 1 two years' shall be substituted.Petitioner No. 1 before us is one Kamlaprasad.	Khetan,	 whostates that lie is a Director and shareholder of the  secondpetitioner,  which  is the Ishwari Khetan Sugar	 Mills	Ltd.The  Union of India was and is the only respondent.   By  anorder  dated October 1, 1956, this Court permitted the	saidauthorised  Controller	to intervene, with the	result	thatboth  the Union of India and the authorised Controller	havebeen  heard in opposition to the petition.  The	 substantialcase of the petitioners is that the order referred to  abovedated  November	 8,  1955,  and	 the  amending	order  datedNovember  7,  1956, are invalid in law and  bad	 on  certainother grounds to be stated presently, and it is not open  tothe  Central  Government to interfere with  the	 fundamentalright  of the petitioners to hold and manage their  propertyon the strength of the said invalid orders; the	 petitionerstherefore  pray	 for  the  issue  of  appropriate  writs  ordirections to quash those orders.Short  and simple as the case of the petitioners appears  tobe at first sight, it is necessary to refer to a  backgroundof  certain antecedent facts for a proper understanding	 andappreciation  of the issues involved in the present  disputebetween	 the parties.  The Ishwari Khetan Sugar Mills  Ltd.,is  a  public limited Company, in which four branches  of  afamily	known  as the Khetan family held a large  number  ofshares and only about one-fourth of the shares were held  byoutsiders.   The Company was managed by a firm	of  ManagingAgents,	 subject  to  supervision by  the  Directors.	Fourmembers of the Khetan family1055constituted  the Managing Agency firm, of which	 Kedar	NathKhetan	(later appointed as the authorised  Controller)	 wasone and Onkarmal Khetan (now deceased), father of petitionerKamlaprasad  Khetan,  was  another.   The  Managing   Agentsmanaged	 two Mills, known as the Ishwari Khetan Sugar  MillsLtd.,  Lakshmiganj,  and the Maheshwari Khetan	Sugar  MillsLtd.,  Ramkola,	 District Deoria.  We are concerned  in	 thepresent	 case with the Ishwari Khetan Sugar Mills Ltd.	 TheManaging  Agents were also partners in the firm of  managingagents of certain other companies, namely, Morarji Gokul DasSpinning  and  Weaving Mills, Bombay,  and  Laxmidevi  SugarMills Ltd., Deoria.  In the affidavit in opposition filed onbehalf	of the authorised Controller, it is stated that	 theKhetan	family was in the beginning a mere  trading  family,but " due to the initiative, business acumen and imaginationof  Rai	 Bahadur Kedar Nath  Khetan,  various  manufacturingconcerns  including several sugar factories grew up " ;	 andit  was	 under his direction that the other members  of	 thefamily, including Onkarmal Khetan, were put in charge of theday-today  routine  administration of one  business  or	 theother.	 There	was  a	provision  in  the  Managing  Agencyagreement  under which every member of the firm of  ManagingAgents	was  authorised to exercise all the  powers  of	 theManaging  Agents.  According to the case of  the  authorisedController,  trouble  arose  between  the  members  of	 thedifferent branches of the family of Managing Agents sometimein  1950-51 when it came to light that Onkarmal	 Khetan	 hadsurreptitiously	 withdrawn  large  sums of  money  from	 theaccounts  of the various businesses in which the members  ofthe  Khetan family were interested as Managing	Agents,	 andthis led to certain suits being instituted against  OnkarmalKhetan.	  The  latter, in his turn, retaliated	by  bringingsuits for the appointment of a Receiver, or for	 restrainingthe  holding of a general meeting of one of the	 mills,	 andinstituting  certain  other preceedings stated to be  of  anobstructive  nature and calculated to create an	 impasse  inthe working of the mills,1056The  petitioners  on  the contrary  alleged  that  when	 thebalance	 sheet of the Ishwari Khetan Sugar Mills  Ltd.,	 forthe  financial year 1950-51 was published in June  1952,  itwas  discovered	 that some of the  Directors  including	 theauthorised Controller had utilised the funds of the  Companyfor  their  personal  gain and	had  committed	breaches  ofcertain provisions of the Indian Companies Act.	 This led toSuit  No. 4 of 1952 brought by the petitioners against	someof  the Directors, including the authorised Controller,	 foran  order  of  permanent  injunction  restraining  the	saidDirectors  from	 exercising  any  powers  as  Directors	  ofpetitioner  No. 2 and also for a declaration that  a  noticecalling	 the twenty-fourth ordinary general meeting  of	 theCompany to be held on July 9, 1952, was illegal and invalid.In  that  suit,	 an ex-parte order of  injunction  was	madeagainst the Directors concerned on July 8, 1952.  That orderwas,   however,	 subsequently  vacated	as   being   withoutjurisdiction and a fresh order was made on June 3, 1953.  Inthe affidavit filed on behalf of the authorised	 Controller,it  has	 been stated that on legal advice  obtained  by	 thedefendants  of	that suit to the effect	 that  the  ex-parteorder  of  injunction  dated  July  8,	1952,  was   withoutjurisdiction, the twenty-fourth ordinary general meeting  ofthe  Company was held on July 9, 1952, and the	shareholdersunanimously  passed a resolution in that  meeting  approvingand  adopting the Directors' report and the audited  balancesheet  of  the	Company as on October 9,  1951.	  The  freshtemporary order of injunction which was passed by the  CivilJudge,	Deoria, on June 3, 1953, was confirmed by  the	HighCourt  of Allahabad by its order dated September  14,  1953.Feeling	 that the order of stay would  completely  dislocatethe  affairs  of the Company,  the  shareholders  themselvescalled	an extraordinary general meeting which was  held  onNovember  9,  1953,  and  at  that  meeting  the  authorisedController  and	 certain other persons	were  re-elected  asDirectors  of the Company, subject to the condition that  ifthe  Court  decided  in Suit No. 4 of  1952  that  the	saidDirectors  had	not ceased to be Directors,  the  resolutionwould be ineffectual to that extent.  There1057were  several proceedings in the High Court of Allahabad  Inconnection  with Suit No. 4 of 1952, and in one of them	 theHigh Court was moved for an expeditious hearing of the suit,and   such  a  direction  was  made  by	 the   High   Court.Unfortunately, however, for reasons which need not be statedhere, Suit No. 4 of 1952 is still awaiting trial and on July31,  1956, petitioner No. 1 obtained an ex-parte order	fromthe said High Court adjourning the hearing of the suit.	 Thecase  of the anthorised Controller is that petitioner No.  1having realised that he is not supported by the majority  ofshareholders  and cannot, therefore, legally  represent	 theCompany,  is delaying the hearing of Suit No. 4 of  1952  onone ground or another.While  all this legal tussle, with allegations	and  counterallegations  made by the parties, was going on in the  arenaof the Courts of law, certain other events happened to whicha  reference must now be made.	The petitioners allege	thatthe authorised Controller, finding that the majority of	 theshareholders  and  Directors  were  not	 in  favour  of	 hismanaging  the  Ishwari Khetan ,Sugar Mills  Ltd.  moved	 theMinistry  of Food, through his grandson Durga Prasad  Khetanand  another gentle man. related to him, for passing  ordersunder  ss.  15 and 17 of the Act.  On November	8,  1952,  acommunication  was  received from the Ministry of  Food	 andAgriculture, Government of India, wherein was stated:-"The Government of India consider that if on account of	 thefailure	  of   the  parties  concerned	to   compose   theirdifferences and inability to take timely and proper steps toarrange	 for normal working of the mills, the mills are	 notable to start work in time during the 1952-53 season, or areunable to work at all, it will result in a substantial	fallin the production of sugar without due justification.	Sucha  result  will lead to the conclusion that  the  mills	 arebeing managed in a manner likely to damage the interests  ofa  substantial	body of consumers besides cane	growers	 andmill workers."The communication concluded with the statement that, in	 thecircumstances stated above, the Government of India would beconstrained to order an investigation1361058into  the  matter  and,	 if  necessary,	 to  undertake	 themanagement  of the said mills.	It may be stated  hers	thatthe communication was in respect of both the Ishwari KhetainSugar Mills Ltd. and the Maheshwari Khetan Sugar Mills Ltd.On  December 18, 1952, the Central Government  did  actuallypass  an  order under sub-s. (4) of s. 3  of  the  EssentialSupplies  (Temporary  Powers)  Act, 1946,  under  which	 theauthorised  Controller	was empowered  to  exercise  certainfunctions of control in respect of the Ishwari Khetan  SugarMills Ltd., the functions of control being stated in  detailin  notification No. S.R.O. 2073 of even date.	On  December23,  1952,  Onkarmal  filed a writ petition  to	 this  Courtagainst	 the aforesaid order of the Central  Government	 andasked for an interim direction staying the operation of	 theorder.	 This Court gave a direction expediting the  hearingof  the petition, and further directed that the accounts  ofthe   petitioner  Company  be  audited	periodically  by   aGovernment  or private auditor at the instance of  Onkarmal.The  writ  petition itself could not, however, be  heard  intime  and  was later dismissed on May 14,  1954,  as  havingbecome	infructuous in the meantime.  On July 30, 1953,	 theCentral Government passed an order under s. 15 of the Act inrespect of several mills, including the Ishwari Khetan SugarMills	Ltd.   Under  that  order  the	Central	  Governmentappointed  three independent persons for making a  full	 andcomplete investigation into the circumstances of each of theindustrial  undertakings  referred  to	therein.   Then,  onNovember  14,  1953, the Central Government  made  an  orderunder s. 18A of the Act, by which the authorised  Controllerwas  appointed	to take over the management of	the  IshwariKhetan Sugar Mills Ltd.	 It may be stated here that the	 Actwas  amended in 1953 by Act 26 of 1953.	 By that  amendment,s. 17 was omitted and a new chapter, viz., Chapter IIIA, wasinserted.  This new chapter contained s. 18A under which theCentral Government passed its order dated November 14, 1953.The  order stated that it shall have effect for a period  ofone year.  In December 1953 came the decision of this  Courtin Dwarkadas Shrinivas of1059Bombay	v.  The Sholapur Spinning & Weaving  Co.  Ltd.	Thatdecision pronounced oil Art. 31(2) of the Constitution	withreference  to  the  validity of the  Sholapur  Spinning	 andWeaving Company (Emergency Provisions) Ordinance 11 of	1950and  Act XXVIII of 1950.  As a result, presumably,  of	thatdecision, on May 21, 1954, the Central Government  cancelledall   appointments  of	authorised  Controllers	 under	 theprovisions  of	the  Act,  and	on  such  cancellation	 themanagement of the industrial undertaking vested again in theowner  of the undertaking.  The case of the  petitioners  isthat in spite of the cancellation the authorised  Controllercontinued  to  remain in possession of the  undertaking	 in,question.   On July 16, 1954, the Central  Government  againpassed	an order under sub-s. (4) of s. 3 of  the  EssentialSupplies (Temporary Powers) Act, 1946, thereby again  givingthe  authorised Controller certain functions of	 control  inrespect of the Ishwari Khetan Sugar Mills Ltd.	On September19, 1954, there was another investigation under s. 15 of theAct  by	 a  panel of officers and it  is  stated  that	theyrecommended that the Central Government should take over themanagement  of	the Mills for a period of three	 years.	  OnJanuary	 31,  1955,  the present petitioners  filed  a	writpetition in this Court in respect of the order passed by theCentral	 Government  on	 July 16, 1954.	 This  is  the	writpetition  which,  after necessary amendments, is  now  underconsideration	before	us,  the  amendments   having	beennecessitated  by reason of certain subsequent  notificationsmade   by   the	 Central   Government.	  These	  subsequentnotifications are-(1) the notifications made on November  8,1955, by which the earlier order made on July 16, 1954,	 wascancelled  and a fresh order made under s. 18A of  the	Act;and (2) the amending order dated November 7, 1956-to both ofwhich  a reference has been made in the first  paragraph  ofthis judgment.	By reason of these subsequent notifications,the  order  dated July 16, 1954, no longer exists,  and	 thewrit  petition	which was originally directed  against	thatorder stands in need of amendment.(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 674.1060The petitioners have prayed for an amendment of the originalwrit petition and also for permission to urge fresh  groundsto  challenge the validity of the two notified	orders,	 onedated  November	 8, 1955, and the other	 dated	November  7,1956.	By an order of the Judge-in-Chambers dated  February18,  1957,  the	 petition  for	amendment  and	for   urgingadditional  grounds was directed to be heard along with	 themain petition under Art. 32.  But before that date, i.e., onNovember   5,1956,   when  the	stay  application   of	 thepetitioners was heard, the following direction was givenby this Court-"  The	hearing	 of the main petition under Art.  32  to  beexpedited........................................ it will beopen to the petitioners to challenge that the appointment ofR. B. Kedar Nath Khetan, if again made, is also bad."In  view  of the aforesaid directions, we have	treated	 themain petition under Art. 32 as a petition against the latestorders	passed	by  the Central	 Government  appointing	 theauthorised  Controller	to take over the management  of	 theundertaking,  and we have also permitted the petitioners  tourge fresh grounds in support of their petition.Having	indicated in the preceding paragraphs the  necessarybackground against which the dispute between the parties hasto  be considered, we proceed now to a consideration of	 thegrounds	 on which the petitioners challenge the validity  ofthe orders dated November 8, 1955, and November 7, 1956.  Itis  necessary  to clear the ground by stating  at  the	veryoutset	that  learned counsel for the  petitioners  has	 notchallenged the validity of s. 18A of the Act under which theimpugned  orders  were made.  We have  already	stated	thatChapter IIIA of the Act was inserted by the Amending Act  26of 1953.  Article 31B of the Constitution was enacted by theConstitution (First Amendment Act, 1951, which states, interalia, that none of the Acts and Regulations specified in theNinth  Schedule nor any of the provisions thereof  shall  bedeemed	to  be	void, or ever to have become  void,  on	 theground that such Act, Regulation or provision is1061inconsistent  with,  or takes away or abridges	any  of	 therights	conferred by, any provisions of this  Part  (meaningPart III) of the Constitution.	The Ninth Schedule was addedto  by the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955.	ItemNo. 19 of the Ninth Schedule is now Chapter IIIA of the	 Actas  inserted by the Industries (Development and	 Regulation)Amendment  Act, 1953.  Learned Counsel for  the	 petitionershas  frankly  conceded	that  in  view	of  these   amendingprovisions,  he	 is not now in a position to  challenge	 thevalidity of s. 18A of the Act.Therefore,  the principal question for our consideration  isthe validity of the impugned orders made under that section.Learned	 counsel  for the petitioners has attacked  the	 twoorders on the following grounds:(1)the order of November 8, 1955, is not a lawful order,  asit does not fulfill one of the essential requirements of  s.18A of the Act under which it purports to have been made;(2)even assuming that the order was a good order when it wasmade,  s. 18A of the Act does not authorise an extension  ofthe period during which the order is to remain in force,  inthe  manner in which the extension was made on	November  7,1956,  and  such extension did not comply with	one  of	 theessential requirements of s. 21 of the General Clauses	Act,(No.  X of 1897); and(3)in  any event, the order is not a bonafide order in	thatthe  Central  Government appointed the very person  who	 wasmismanaging the undertaking, who was one of the parties to apending dispute, and against whom an order of injunction hadbeen passed by a Court of competent jurisdiction.These  three grounds we now propose to examine in the  orderin which we have set them out.(1)We  must  first read s. 18A of the Act so far  as  it  isrelevant for our purpose.  The section states   If the Central Government is of opinion that(a).................(b)an	industrial  undertaking	 in  respect  of  which	  aninvestigation has been made under section 15 (whether or notany directions have been issued to the1062undertaking in pursuance of section 16, is being managed  ina  manner  highly  detrimental to,  the	 scheduled  industryconcerned or to public interest, the Central Government may,by notified order,  authorise any person or body of  personsto take over the management of the whole or any part of	 theundertaking  or to exercise in respect of the whole  or	 anypart of the undertaking such functions of controlas may be specified in the order.(2)Any	notified  order issued under sub-section  (1)  shallhave effect for such period not exceeding five years as	 maybe specified in the order. Provided  that the Central Government, if it is of  opinionthat it is expedient in public interest so to do, may directthat  any such notified order shall continue to have  effectafter  the expiry of the period of five years aforesaid	 forsuch further period as may be specified in the direction andwhere any such direction is issued, a copy thereof shall  belaid, as soon as may be, before both Houses of Parliament."The  argument before us is that for the application  of	 cl.(b) of sub-s. (1) of s. 18A, the two essential	requirementsare-(1) an investigation under s. 15 of the Act and (ii) theopinion	 of  the  Central  Government  that  the  industrialundertaking is being managed in a manner highly	 detrimentalto  the scheduled industry concerned or lo public  interest.Learned counsel for the petitioners has conceded that beforethe  order  dated November 8, 1955, was made, there  was  aninvestigation  under  s.  15 of the Act in  respect  of	 theindustrial   undertaking   in  question,   and	 the   firstrequirement  was  thus	fulfilled.   Learned  counsel	has,however, very strongly submitted that the second requirementwas   not  fulfilled  in  the  present	case,  because	 theauthorised   Controller	 himself  was  in  charge   of	 theundertaking  from December 18, 1952, till November  8,	1955(when  the  impugned order was made) with a small  break  ofless  than  two months only between the two dates,  May	 21,1954, when all appointments under the Act were cancelled andJuly  16,  1954,  when a fresh	order  under  the  EssentialSupplies (Temporary Powers) Act, 1946 was made, and1063even during this short period the case of the petitioners isthat  the  authorised Controller  continued  in	 possession.Founding himself on these circumstances learned counsel	 forthe   petitioners  contends  that  it  was  rationally	 andlogically  impossible  for the Central Government to  be  ofopinion that the industrial undertaking was being managed ina  manner highly detrimental to the public interest,  beforethe impugned order was made.We  are unable to accept this argument as correct.  We	havealready	 referred  to the legal tussle which  was  going  onbetween	 the  parties with regard to the management  of	 theindustrial undertaking in question.  The Central  Governmentvery  rightly pointed out in their letter dated November  8,1952, that the result of the differences between the partieswas  likely to be a stoppage of the mill and a fall  in	 theproduction  of	sugar with consequential  detriment  to	 theinterests  of the industry concernedand the interests  of  asubstantial  body  of  consumers,  cane	 growers  and	millworkers.   In  view  of the  litigation	 which	was  pendingbetween the parties, the likelihood of the dangers at  whichthe Central Government hinted in 1952 must have continued toexist,	as  long  as  the  management  was  not	 fully	 andcompletely  taken  over by the	authorised  Controller.	  InDecember 1952, the order passed under the Essential Supplies(Temporary  Powers) Act, 1946 merely gave some functions  ofcontrol	 to the authorised Controller; it did not  vest	 themanagement  in	him.  This  distinction	 between  exercisingcertain functions of control, however, drastic the functionsmay  be,  on an order made under sub-s. (4) of s. 3  of	 theEssential  Supplies  (Temporary Powers) Act and	 the  takingover of the management of the whole of an undertaking on  anorder  under s. 18A of the Act is a real  distinction  whichmust  be borne in mind, as it has a bearing on the  argumentadvanced  before  us.	Sub-section  (4)  of  s.  3  of	 theEssential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Act, 1946,  authorisesthe Controller to exercise, with respect to the whole or anypart of the undertaking, such functions of control as may beprovided  by the order; s. 18A of the Act is in wider  termsand empowers the1064Central	 Government  to	 authorise any	person	or  body  ofpersons to take over the management of the whole or any partof the undertaking or to exercise in respect of the whole orany part of the undertaking such functions of control as maybe  specified in the order.  Section 18B of the	 Act  statesthe effect of a notified order under s. 18A; in sub-s.	(1),cls.  (a)  to (e), is stated the effect of taking  over	 themanagement,  and  in  sub. s. (3) is stated  the  effect  ofmerely	giving functions of control a distinction  which  isclearly drawn in the section itself.  It is not difficult toconceive  that	in a particular industrial  undertaking	 themere  giving of some functions of control may not be  enoughto  meet  the  situation  which has arisen  and	 it  may  benecessary for the Central Government to pass an order takingover the management of the whole of the undertaking.  In thecase  under  our consideration, in December,  1952,  certainfunctions   of	control	 were  vested  in   the	  authorisedController,  but  the management of  the  whole	 undertakingwas,not	 taken over.  This continued till  an  investigationwas  ordered under s. 15 of the Acton July 30, 1953.   Then,on November 14, 1953, the authorised Controller was directedto  take over the management of the whole of the  industrialundertaking.   This order was however cancelled on  May	 21,1954,  and  under  s.  18F of the Act,	the  effect  of	 thecancellation  was to vest the management of the	 undertakingagain in its owner the expression I owner' meaning, under s.3  (f) of the Act, the person who, or the  authority  which,has the ultimate control over the affairs of the undertakingand,  where  the said affairs are entrusted  to	 a  manager,managing director or managing agent, such manager,  managingdirector or managing agent.  Therefore, the legal effect  ofthe cancellation on May 21, 1954, was to vest the managementof the Ishwari Khetan Sugar Mills Ltd., in the Directors andManaging Agents who were quarreling amongst themselves.	  Onbehalf	of  the petitioners, it has been  pointed  out	thatKedar  Nath  Khetan, the  erstwhile  authorised	 Controller,continued   to	remain	in  possession	in  spite   of	 thecancellation order.  In an affidavit filed on behalf of	 theCentral Government, it1065is  stated  that after the cancellation	 order,	 Kedar	NathKhetan,	 the erstwhile authorised Controller,  informed	 theGovernment of India that he was continuing in management  ina  capacity other than that of authorised  Controller.	 Theaffidavit  filed  on  behalf of	 the  authorised  Controllerstates,	  however,  that  between  the	time   the   CentralGovernment  directed  him  to hand over	 possession  to	 theDirectors  and the time when he was again appointed on	July16,  1954,  the management of the Company  remained  in	 thehands of the Directors who were in possession of the  under-taking.	  It is not necessary for us to pronounce  on  thesedisputed facts.	 It is abundantly clear from the  affidavitsfiled  that peace amongst the Directors or in the family  ofthe  Managing Agents had not been restored by the  time	 thecancellation order was made on May 21, 1954.  Suit No. 4  of1952  was still pending, and the tussle between the  partieswas going on.  This was the position when another order	 wasmade  under the Essential Supplies (Temporary  Powers)	Act,1946.,	on  July 16, 1954.  This was followed  by  a  secondinvestigation  under  s. 15 of the Act in  September,  1954.Petitioner No. I was still pursuing what he conceived to  behis legal remedy by filing a writ application in respect  ofthe  order  dated July 16, 1954, in this Court and  also  inother proceedings arising out of Suit No. 4 of 1952, in	 theHigh  Court  of	 Allahabad.   In  these	 circumstances,	 theCentral Government made the impugned order dated November 8,1955.	Having regard to the circumstances just	 stated,  itis,  we think, idle to contend that the	 Central  Governmenthad no materials before it for arriving at the opinion	thatthe  industrial	 undertaking was being managed in  a  mannerhighly	 detrimental  to  public  interest.    The   CentralGovernment  might reasonably have felt that the order  datedJuly  16,  1954, which vested certain functions	 of  controlonly,  was  not	 enough to meet the  situation	and  a	moredrastic	 step was necessary.  It is worthy of note  that  inthe  affidavit filed on behalf of the Central Government  itis  stated  that the affairs of the  industrial	 undertakingwere investigated a second1371066time under s. 15 of the Act in September 1954, and the panelof  officers  who held that investigation  recommended	thatGovernment should take over the management of the industrialundertaking  for a period a of three years.  It is  on	thatrecommendation	that  the  Central  Government	passed	 theimpugned order on November 8, 1955.  We are unable to acceptthe argument of learned counsel for the petitioners that oneof the essential requirements of cl. (b) of sub-s. (1) of s.18A  of	 the Act was not fulfilled before  the	order  datedNovember 8, 1955, was made.Learned counsel for the petitioners has drawn our  attentionto those statements in the affidavit filed on behalf of	 theCentral	 Government  which referred to	the  improvement  inmanagement,  after  the undertaking was taken  over  by	 theauthorised Controller.	In that affidavit, it is stated :" I say that by virtue of the order issued by the Governmentof India under s. 3(4) of the Essential Supplies  (Temporary-Powers)  Act, 1946, the Government of India had taken	overonly the supervisory control and the said Kedar Nath  Khetanhad only powers to issue directions to the management.	 Themanagement was with the old management and the Government ofIndia	or  the	 authorised  Controller	 had  no   effectivefunctioning  in the management as the authorised  Controllercould not manage the undertaking.  I say that in view of thecontinued litigation referred to in detail in the  affidavitof the intervener dated 25th October, 1956, it was  apparentthat  the mill was being managed in a manner  highly  detri-mental	to the interests of the undertaking and that it	 wasnecessary  to pass the order under s. 18A of the  Industries(Development and Regulation) Act, 1951. 1 say that after themanagement  was	 taken over by Shri Kedar Nath	Khetan,	 theGovernment  has	 reason to believe that the  management	 hasimproved and has saved further deterioration."In another part of the same affidavit, it is stated that themill earned a profit during 1953-54 and in 1954-55 also	 themill was likely to make a net profit of1067Rs.  84,321.  We see nothing in these statements from  whichit can be inferred that the recorded opinion of the  CentralGovernment  in	the order dated November 8, 1955,  that	 theindustrial undertaking was being managed in a manner  highlydetrimental  to public interest contained a  palpably  falsestatement.  The crux of the matter was the dispute inter  seamongst	 the Directors and the Managing Agents,	 leading  toprotracted and harassing litigation, some of which was stillpending;  that	was the real cause of the  trouble,  and  wethink  that the Central Government had enough materials	 forits opinion that the industrial undertaking in question	 wasbeing  managed	in  a manner highly  detrimental  to  publicinterest.(2)We  now turn to the amending order of November  7,  1956.The amending order is in these terms :"  In  the  said order in sub-clause (ii) of  clause  I	 andclause	2  for the words 'one year', the  words	 two  years'shall be substituted."Section 21 of the General Clauses Act states:" Where, by any Central Act or Regulation, a power to  issuenotifications, orders, rules, or bye-laws is conferred, thenthat power includes a power, exercisable in the like  mannerand subject to the like sanction and conditions (if any), toadd  to, amend, vary or rescind any  notifications,  orders,rules or bye-laws so issued."The argument of learned counsel for the petitioners is	thatneither	 s. 18A of the Act nor s. 21 of the General  ClausesAct save the amending order of November 7, 1956.  There	 hasbeen  some argument before us with regard to the proviso  tosub-s.	(2)  of s. 18A of the Act, which we have  quoted  inextensor in an earlier part of this judgment.  That proviso,it  is	contended by learned counsel  for  the	petitioners,refers only to an order which is initially made for a periodof  five years, or, alternatively, which comes to an end  onthe expiry of a period of five years.  According to him, theproviso	 empowers  the Central Government  to  continue	 theorder after the expiry of a period of1068five  years for such further period as may be  specified  inthe direction given by the Central Government, and the	onlysafeguard  is  that a copy of the direction is	to  be	laidbefore both Houses of Parliament.  The	argument of  learnedCounsel	 for  the  petitioners proceeds to  state  that	 theproviso	 has  no application in the present case  where	 theoriginal  order was made for a period of one year  only	 andthe amending order merely continued it for another year.  Inthe  view which we have taken of the substantive  provisionsof sub-s. (1) of s. 18A of the Act and s. 21 of the  GeneralClauses	 Act,  we  do not think it  necessary  to  make	 anypronouncement  with regard to the true scope and  effect  ofthe  aforesaid proviso.	 In our opinion, the amending  orderis  protected  under s. 21 of the General Clauses  Act	readwith sub-sec. (1) of s. 18A of the Act.Section 21 of the General Clauses Act says, inter alia, thatthe power to issue an order under any Central Act includes apower  to  amend the order; but this power is subject  to  avery  important	 qualification	and  the  qualification	  iscontained  in the words 'exercisable in the like manner	 andsubject	 to  the  like sanction and  conditions	 (if  any)'.There  is no dispute before us that the amending  order	 wasmade  in the same manner as the original order, that is,  bymeans of a notified order.  As no sanction is necessary	 foran  order  under  s. 18A, the only  question  before  us  iswhether the amending order complied with the like conditionsunder  which the original order was made.  We  have  alreadystated	what are the two essential requirements of an  orderunder  cl.  (b)	 of sub-s (1) of s. 18A	 of  the  Act.	 Theargument  of  learned counsel for the  petitioners  is	thatthose  two  essential  conditions must	be  fulfilled  againbefore	any  amendment of the order can be  made;  this,  heureas,	is  the	 true scope and	 effect	 of  the  expression'subject to the like conditions (if any)' occurring in s. 21of the General Clauses Act.We  agree with learned counsel for the petitioners that	 thepower to amend, which is included in the power1069to  make  the order, is exercisable in the like	 manner	 andsubject	 to  the like sanction and conditions  (if  any)  asgovern	the making of the original order; this is stated  bythe  section  itself.	It  becomes  necessary	however,  tounderstand clearly the true nature of the conditions'; whichhave to be fulfilled before an order under el. (b) of sub-s.(1) of s. 18A of the Act can be made.  Once the true  natureof those conditions is appreciated, there is in our  opinionlittle	difficulty left in the application of s. 21  of	 theGeneral Clauses Act.  Now, the first condition in cl. (b) ofsub-s.	(1)  of	 s. 18A of the Act is  that  the  industrialundertaking must be one in respect of which an investigationhas  been  made under s. 15 of the Act.	 Section  15  is  inthese terms:Where the Central Government is of the opinion that-(a)  in	 respect  of any scheduled  industry  or  industrialundertaking or undertakings-(i)  there has been, or is likely to be, a substantial	fallin  the	 volume of production in respect of any	 article  orclass of articles relatable to that industry or manufacturedor  produced in the industrial undertaking or  undertakings,as the case may be, for which, having regard to the economicconditions prevailing, there is no justification; or(ii) there   has  been,	 or  is	 likely	 to  be,  a   markeddeterioration  in  the quality of any article  or  class  ofarticles  relatable  to	 that industry	or  manufactured  orproduced  in the industrial undertaking or undertakings,  asthe case may be, which could have been or can be avoided; or(iii)	  there	 has been or is likely to be a rise  in	 theprice of any article or class of articles relatable to	thatindustry  or  manufactured  or produced	 in  the  industrialundertaking  or undertakings, as the case may be, for  whichthere is no justification; or(iv) it is necessary to take any such action as is  providedin this Chapter for the purpose of conserving any  resourcesof national importance which are utilised in the industry orthe  industrial undertaking or under. takings, as  the	casemay be; or1070(b)  any industrial undertaking is being managed in a mannerhighly detrimental to the scheduled industry concerned or topublic interest; the Central Government may make or cause to  be made a fulland  complete  investigation into the circumstances  of	 thecase by such person or body of persons as it may appoint forthe purpose."The order for investigation in this case was made under	 cl.(b) of s. 15, and that clause again uses the expression thatthe  'industrial  undertaking is being managed in  a  mannerhighly	detrimental to the industry concerned or  to  publicinterest  'the	same expression which occurs in cl.  (b)  ofsub-s.	(1)  of s. 18A of the Act.  Section 16	of  the	 Actstates,	 inter alia, that if, after making or causing to  bemade  any investigation under s. 15, the Central  Governmentis satisfied that action under the section is desirable,  itmay  then issue certain directions which are stated  in	 thesection.   It  may,  however, be that in a  given  case	 themanagement is so detrimental to the industry concerned or topublic	interest  that mere directions under s. 16  are	 notenough; in that event, the Central Government may take	overthe  management by an order passed under cl. (b)  of  sub-s.(1) of s. 18A of the Act.  There may even be a case where inspite of the directions, no sufficient improvement has takenplace  and  an order under sub-s. (1) of s. 18A of  the	 Actbecomes	 necessary.   That is why in cl. (b) of	 sub-s.	 (1)occurs	the  expression whether or not any  directions	havebeen issued to the undertaking in pursuance of section	16.'The  reason  why the same expression is being managed  in  amanner highly detrimental etc.' occurs both in cl. (b) of s.15  and cl. (b) of sub-s. (1) of s. 18A of the Act is  this:an investigation is ordered when the conditions mentioned ins.  15 are fulfilled, one of the conditions being  that	 theindustrial  undertaking is being managed in a manner  highlydetrimental to the scheduled industry concerned or to publicinterest.  On such an investigation being made, the  CentralGovernment   may  issue	 directions  under  s.	 16;   thosedirections may or may not improve the situation.  If they donot improve the1071situation,  or if the mere giving of directions under s.  16is  not	 considered sufficient to meet	the  situation,	 theCentral	 Government may pass an order under s. 18A; but	 oneof  the requisite conditions is that the Central  Governmentmust he of opinion that the industrial undertaking is  stillbeing  managed	in  a.	manner	highly	detrimental  to	 thescheduled  industry  concerned or to  public  interest.	  Ifthese ss. 15, 16 and 18A, are read together, as they must beread, then it becomes at once clear that the condition as tothe  management	 of the industrial undertaking in  a  mannerhighly detrimental to the scheduled industry concerned or topublic	interest relates in its true scope and effect  to  aperiod when the management of the industrial undertaking  isin  the hands of its owner; that is, to a period before	 themanagement  of the whole or any part of the  undertaking  istaken  over.   Similarly,  with regard to  the	exercise  offunctions  of control, which also is contemplated by s.	 18Aof  the Act, the condition again relates to a period  beforethe  functions of control are taken over.  It would, in	 ouropinion,  be illogical and against the terms of ss.  15,  16and  18A  of  the  Act to hold	that  the  condition  as  tomismanagement  (using  the  word  'mismanagement'  for	 thepurpose	  of  brevity  and  convenience,  for  the   correctexpression,   namely,	'management  in	 a   manner   highlydetrimental to the scheduled industry concerned or to publicinterest')  can	 apply after the management has	 been  takenover  and  during  the	period	of  its	 management  by	 theauthorised  Controller.	 The contention of  learned  counselfor  the petitioners is that whenever an amendment is  made,the  test of mismanagement must again be fulfilled.  Let  usexamine	 the full implications of this argument.  If,  afterthe  management	 is taken over,	 the  authorised  Controllerbecomes seriously ill or dies in a few days when the  periodof  the	 order has not expired, the Central  Government	 mayfind  it  necessary to appoint another person and  for	thatpurpose	 make  an  amendment.  If the  argument	 of  learnedcounsel	 for the petitioners is correct, then  no  amendmentcan be made unless the test of mismanagement is again1072fulfilled;  but	 how can such a test be fulfilled  when	 themanagement  was	 in the hands of the  authorised  Controllertill  he died, the authorised Controller being more or	lessin the position of an agent of the Central Government ?	 Theargument  of learned counsel for the petitioners, pushed  toits logical extreme, will thus result in an absurdity and noamendment will ever be possible.Learned	 counsel  for the authorised Controller has  on	 thecontrary contended that the two conditions laid down in	 el.(b)  of	 sub-s. (1) of s. 18A of the Act are not  static  innature	and once they are fulfilled, they continue  to	haveeffect	 thereafter  whatever  may  have  happened  in	 themeantime.   The	 argument  proceed  to	state  that  if	  aninvestigation under s. 15 of the Act had once been made	 andif  at	some previous stage the industrial  undertaking	 wasmismanaged,   the   two	 conditions  continue	to   operateirrespective  of whether the undertaking vests in the  owneragain  for a time, and an amendment may be made at any	timeand even a fresh order can be made without the necessity  ofa fresh investigation and a fresh mismanagement.We consider that both these are extreme views.	On a  properconstruction  of ss. 15, 16 and 18A of the Act, the  correctview  appears to be what we have stated earlier, namely	 thetwo  conditions, one as to an investigation under s. 15	 andthe  other as to mismanagement, relate to a period when	 themanagement  of the industrial undertaking is legally  vestedin its owner, and s. 18A must be read, with reference to thetwo  conditions stated in el. (b) of sub-s. (1),  as  thoughthe words 'while the undertaking is vested in its owner' arepresent in the clause.	If, as in this case, the  managementis once taken over by an order under s. 18A but the order islater cancelled and the management again vests in the owner,the  two conditions must be fulfilled again before an  orderunder  el.  (b) of sub-s. (1) of s. 18A of the	Act  can  bemade.	That  is  what happened in the	present	 case.	 Themanagement  was	 taken over on November 14,  1953,  but	 theorder  was  cancelled on May 21, 1954,	and  the  managementvested in the owner.  An1073investigation  under  s.  15 of the Act was  again  made  inSeptember, 1954, and the Central Government, being satisfiedthat  the  industrial undertaking was  being  mismanaged  inspite  of the order under the Essential Supplies  (TemporaryPowers) Act made on July 16, 1954, passed the impugned orderon  November  8,  1955.	 So far as  the	 amending  order  ofNovember  7, 1956, was concerned, the like conditions  stillcontinued  to exist and there was no necessity for  a  freshinvestigation  etc.,  because the management had  not  sinceNovember  8,  1955, vested in the owner, and by	 their	verynature the conditions continued to exist till the managementwent  into the hands of the owner again.  Having  regard  tothe true nature of the conditions laid down in s. 18A of theAct, there was no violation of s. 21 of the General  ClausesAct when the amendment was made on November 7, 1956, and, inour   opinion,	 the  requirements  of	s.   21	  had	beensubstantially  complied with.  The power to amend  which  isincluded  in  the  power to make  the  order  was  exercisedsubject	 to like conditions within the meaning of s.  21  ofthe General Clauses Act, the conditions being an  investiga-tion  under  s.	 15 of the Act and management  in  a  mannerhighly	detrimental  to	 public	 interest,  both  of   whichnecessarily related to the period when the management of theindustrial undertaking was legally vested in its owner;	 andboth  had  been fulfilled and continued to be  so  fulfilledwhen the amendment was made.  It is to be remembered that s.21   of	 the  General  Clauses	Act  embodies  a   rule	  ofconstruction,  and  that  rule must have  reference  to	 thecontext	 and  subject-matter of the  particular	 statute  towhich  it is being applied; for example, s. 18A of  the	 Actdoes not prescribe any conditions for the cancellation of anorder made under that section, but s. 18F does and the powerof cancellation referred to in s. 21 of the General  ClausesAct  must have reference to s. 18F.  Similarly, an order  ofamendment made becomes an order under s. 18A and is  subjectto  all	 the  conditions mentioned  therein,  including	 thecondition mentioned in sub-s. (2).A  reference  was made in this connection to a	decision  ofthis Court in Strawboard Manufacturing Co. v. Gutta1381074Mill Workers' Union (1).  In that case, the State Governmentof  Uttar Pradesh had referred an industrial dispute to	 theLabour Commissioner on February 18, 1950, and directed	thatthe award should be submitted not later than April 5,  1950.The  award, however, was made on April 13, and on  April  26the  Governor issued a notification extending the  time	 formaking the award up to April 30, 1950.	It was held by	thisCourt that the State Government had no authority whatever toextend	the time and the adjudicator became functus  officioon  the	 expiry of the time fixed in the original  order  ofreference  and	the award was, therefore, one  made  withoutjurisdiction and a nullity.  It was further held that s.  14of  the	 U. P. General Clauses Act did not in  terms  or  bynecessary  implication give any such power of  extension  oftime  to the State Government.	It was argued on  behalf  ofthe  State Government in that case that the order  of  April26, 1950, could be supported with reference to s. 21 of	 theU.  P.	General Clauses Act.  But this	Court  rejected	 theargument   and	held  that  the	 power	of   amendment	 andmodification conferred by s. 21 of the U. P. General ClausesAct  could  not	 be exercised so as  to	 have  retrospectiveoperation.   We	 do  not think that the	 principle  of	thatdecision  has any application in the present case.   But  asalready stated by us, the provision in s. 21 of, the GeneralClauses Act embodies a rule of construction, and the impliedpower of amendment therein embodied must be determined	withreference   to	the  context  and  subject-matter   of	 theprovisions  of the principal statute.  In the present  case,that  rule  of	construction applies, but it  does  so	withreference to the context and subject-matter of ss. 15,16 and 18A of the Act.(3)  We	 now turn to the third and last question  which	 hasbeen   agitated	  before  us.	Learned	 counsel   for	 thepetitioners  has contended that the impugned orders are	 notbona  fide  orders.  He has submitted  that  the  authorisedController  was one of the parties to the dispute which	 ledto so much protracted litigation.(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 439.1075He  has	 pointed out that there was an order  of  injunctionagainst	 him.	He  has	 also  referred	 to  certain   othercircumstances  arising	out  of	 other	activities  of	 theauthorised  Controller	and relating to	 income-tax  demandsagainst	  him.	 He  has  submitted  that   the	  authorisedController ceased to be a Director by reason of breaches  ofcertain provisions of the Indian Companies Act committed  byhim.   These submissions have been very seriously  contestedin   the  affidavit  filed  on	behalf	of  the	  authorisedController.   On  the  materials before us,  it	 is  neitherpossible nor desirable that we should make any pronouncementwith  regard  to these disputed questions of  fact.   It  issufficient to state that the selection of a suitable  personto  be	the  authorised Controller rests  with	the  CentralGovernment   and  it  may  be  presumed	 that  the   CentralGovernment  knows best the needs of the particular  industryand of its own subjects and the suitability of the person tobe appointed as authorised Controller.	Having regard to thefacts  and  circumstances to which we have  already  made  areference,  it cannot be said that the appointment of  KedarNath Khetan as the authorised Controller in this  particularcase was made for some ulterior purpose, that is, a  purposeother  than the purpose of achieving the objects  for  whichthe  impugned order was passed.	 The primary concern of	 theCentral Government was to see that the mills were managed ina  manner which was not detrimental to public interest,	 andhaving regard to the experience of Kedar Nath Khetan in	 theindustry in question, it was open to the Central  Governmentto select him as the most suitable person to be appointed asthe  authorised	 Controller, notwithstanding that he  was  aparty  to the dispute.	The test to be applied in  cases  ofthis  nature,  where  lack  of good  faith  in	the  CentralGovernment  is	pleaded,  is not whether a  better  or	moreindependent  man  was or might be available; nor is  it	 theduty  of  the  Court to subject the selection  made  by	 theCentral	 Government  to	 another  and  independent  test  ofpropriety  and	suitability,  for the Court  has  really  nomaterials  for	such  a test.  The test	 to  be	 applied  iswhether the1076appointment was made for some ulterior purpose, some purposeother  than  the object for which the law, under  which	 theimpugned  order	 is  made, was enacted.	 In  our  view,	 thepetitioners have  completely failed to satisfy that test  inthe present case.For the reasons given above, we hold that the order made  onNovember  8, 1955, and the amending order dated November  7,1956,  are both valid in law, and the petitioners  have	 notmade out any case of a violation of their fundamental right.In  conclusion,	 it  may be stated that	 on  behalf  of	 theauthorised Controller a preliminary objection was also takenthat petitioner No. 1 was not legally competent to representpetitioner  No. 2. Having regard to our decision on  merits,it   is	 unnecessary  to  say  anything	 more	about	thispreliminary  objection.	 It was stated at the Bar that	thispreliminary  objection has also been taken in Suit No. 4  of1952.  As that suit is still pending, we have thought it fitto  refrain from expressing any opinion on  the	 preliminaryobjection.The  result is that there is no merit in the petition  whichis  dismissed  with costs in favour of the  respondent,	 theUnion  of India.  The authorised Controller, who  intervenedat his own risk, must bear his own costs.SARKAR	J.-I have had the privilege of reading the  judgmentjust  delivered by my brother S. K. Das.  I regret  that  onone  of the questions that arise in this matter I have	cometo  entertain a different opinion.  In this judgment I	willsay a few words on that question only.	With the rest of thejudgment  of S.K. Das J. I am in entire agreement.   He	 hasdealt  with  the  facts very fully and therefore  I  do	 notpropose to state them myselfThe  Central  Government had by an  order-published  in	 theOfficial  Gazette of November 8, 1955, and made in  exerciseof  the	 power	conferred  by  s.  18A	of  the	  Industries(Development   &  Regulation)  Act,  1951  (LXV	 of   1951),authorised  Kedar  Nath	 Khetan	 who  has  been	 allowed  tointervene in these proceedings to take1077over  the management of Ishwari Khetan Sugar Mills  Limited,an  industrial	concern	 then  in  the	management  of	 itsdirectors.   The order provided that it was to	have  effectfor  a	period	of one year commencing on the  date  of	 itspublication  in	 the Official Gazette.	By another  2  ordermade  on November 7, 1956, the Central	Government  directedthat  in the order of November 8, 1955, for the	 words	,oneyear"  the  words I two years' should be  substituted.	 Theeffect of this latter order was that Kedar Nath Khetain	 wasto  be	in management of the Mills up to November  7,  1957.The question is whether the order of November 7, 1956 was  avalid  order.  The latter order is only an amendment of	 theearlier order.	Had the Central Government then any power soto amend?Section 18A does not expressly confer any power to amend  anorder  once it is made under it.  Section 21 of the  GeneralClauses	 Act,  however, provides that a power  of  amendmentshall  exist  in certain circumstances.	 The  only  questiontherefore  is  whether	s. 21 of  the  General	Clauses	 Actjustifies the amendment made in this case.  Section 21 is inthese terms:    "Where,  by any (Central Act) or Regulation, a power  to(issue	 notifications),  orders,  rules  or   bye-laws	  isconferred  then that power includes a power, exercisable  inthe  like  manner  and	subject to  the	 like  sanction	 andconditions  (if any), to add to, amend, vary or rescind	 any(notifications) orders, rules or bye-laws so (issued).	"Under  this section a Notification or an Order	once  issuedcan  be amended only "in the like manner and subject to	 thelike sanction and conditions (if any) ". This means that thepower of amendment can be exercised only in the same  mannerand subject to the same sanction and conditions, if any wereimposed,  in  which  the power to make the  order  could  beexercised under the main Act.  Was the order of November  7,1956,  then made in the same manner and subject to the	samesanction and conditions under which an order under s. 18A ofthe main Act could be made ?Under  s. 18A the power to authorise a person to  take	overthe management of an undertaking can be1078exercised only by a notified order, that is to say an  ordernotified in the Official Gazette.  This is the manner of theexercise of the power.	The amending Order had been made  inthe  same manner.  This requirement of s. 21 of the  GeneralClauses Act, therefore, was fulfilled in this case.  Section18A does not provide for any sanction being obtained  beforethe  exercise  of the power conferred by it.   The  amendingOrder, therefore, did not need any sanction, and no questionof  satisfying	any requirement as to any  sanction  arises.The  difficulty	 has  arisen  as  to  the  last	 requirementspecified  in  s. 21, namely, that indicated  by  the  words'subject  to like conditions'.	Section 18A of the main	 Actso  far	 as  relevant for the present purpose  is  in  theseterms:" If the Central Government is of opinion that............(a)....................................(b)  an	 industrial  undertaking  in  respect  of  which  aninvestigation has been made under s. 15 is being managed  ina  manner  highly  detrimental	to  the	 scheduled  industryconcerned or to public interest, the Central Government may,by  a notified order, authorise any person or  to take	overthe management of  the undertakingLearned	 counsel for the petitioner formulated his  argumentin  this way.  He said that the right to exercise the  powerconferred  by  s. 18A arises only on  two  conditions  beingfulfilled,  namely,  (a)  the  existence  of  an  industrialundertaking  in respect of which an investigation  had	beenmade  under s. 15, and (b) the Central Government  being  ofopinion	 that  such  an undertaking is being  managed  in  amanner	highly	detrimental  to the industry  or  to  publicinterest.   It	was  said  that	 in  this  case	 the  secondcondition  was not present when the order for  amendment  ofthe  earlier order was made and therefore it is invalid.   Iagree  that  the second condition was not present  when	 theamending  order was made.  The reason is this.	Section	 18Acontemplates the taking over of management of an undertakingby  a person authorised by the Government.   It,  therefore,contemplates a state of1079affairs in which the management is not in such a person.  Itfollows	 that it contemplates management in a manner  highlydetrimental  to the industry or public interest by a  personother  than that appointed by the Government under the	Act.In  this case at the 2 date of the amendment the  managementwas in the person appointed by the Government by its earlierorder  of November 7, 1955, and, therefore,  the  Governmentcould  not  at the date of the amending order have  been  ofopinion that the management was by a person other than	thatappointed  by it and such management was in a manner  highlydetrimental to the industry or to public interest.In  my view, however, when s. 21 of the General Clauses	 Actmakes  the  power to amend exercisable subject to  the	likeconditions as in the main Act, it does not contemplate thoseconditions upon the fulfillment of which the right to  issuethe  order arises under the main Act.  If this were so,	 thepower of amendment conferred by s. 21 would have been whollyredundant  and	unnecessary.   If the  conditions  upon	 thefulfillment  of which the right to exercise the power  aroseunder  the main Act existed, then the Government could	haveinstead of amending the order made a fresh order under s. 14of  the General Clauses Act, if	 necessary,  rescinding	 theearlier order.	Therefore, it seems to me that the provisionin  s.	21  of the General Clauses Act	that  the  power  ofamendment  shall be exercisable subject to  like  conditionsdoes not refer to conditions upon the existence of Which theright  to exercise the power arises under the main Act.	  Inmy  view  the  conditions  referred to	in  s.	21  are	 theconditions to which the order issued under the main Act mustbe  made  subject.  Thus, in this case sub-s. 2	 of  s.	 18Aprovides  that "any notified order issued under	 sub-section(1)  shall  have effect for such period not  exceeding	fiveyears as may be specified in the order".  The effect of thissub-section  is	 that the order made under s.  18A  must  besubject	 to the condition that it cannot have effect  for  alonger period than 5 years.  When, therefore, an order	oncemade under s. 18A is sought to be amended with the1080aid  derived  from  s. 21 of the General  Clauses  Act,	 theamendment must observe the condition laid down in sub-s. (2)of  s. 18A.  Such amendment is subject to the conditions  inthe main Act.  The amendment cannot,  therefore,  extend theoperation  of  the  order beyond the period  of	 five  yearsmentioned in the main Act.In the present case the amending order of November 7,  1956,complied with this condition and, therefore, it was properlymade  in  compliance  with the provisions of s.	 21  of	 theGeneral	 Clauses  Act.	 For this reason,  in  my  view	 theargument of the learned Counsel for the petitioner that	 theamending order was invalid must fail.I, therefore, agree with the order proposed by S. K. Das J.			 Petition dismissed.1081