PETITIONER:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH	Vs.RESPONDENT:MOHAMMED SAYEEDDATE OF JUDGMENT:26/03/1957BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  587		  1957 SCR  770ACT:Surety	bond-Undertaking  to forfeit sum of  money  to	KingEmperor Qaisar-e-Hind on failure to Produce accused- Whetherbond  legal and enforceable-Code of Criminal Procedure,	 ss.499, 514, and 555-Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950, cl. 4.HEADNOTE:In 1953 the respondent executed a surety bond undertaking toproduce,  the accused before the Magistrate and	 to  forfeitRs.  500  to King Emperor, Qaisar-e-Hind as  penalty  if  hefailed	to do so.  Upon his failure to produce the  accused,the Magistrate forfeited the bond to the extent of Rs.	300.The contention of the respondent was that the bond not beingin favour of the Government, could not be forfeited.Held,  that  the bond was a bond unknown to the law  of	 theRepublic  of India under the Code of Criminal  Procedure  atthe  time of its execution and could not be forfeited.	 Therespondent did not execute a bond by which he bound  himselfto  forfeit  the said sum either to the	 Government  of	 theUnion  of India or that of the State of Uttar Pradesh.	 To'be a valid bond, the undertaking should have been to forfeitto  the Government and not to the King Emperor.	  The  wordsKing  Emperor  Qaisar-e-Hind  in the bond  executed  by	 therespondent  could  not be read, by virtue Of cl.  4  of	 theAdaptation of Laws Order, 1950, to mean Government.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 130  of1955.I  Appeal under Article 134 (1) (C) of the  Constitution  ofIndia  from the judgment and order dated March 11, 1955,  ofthe  Allahabad	High  Court (Lucknow Bench)  at	 Lucknow  inCriminal Revision No. 60 of 1954 arising out of the judgmentand order dated February 21, 1954, of the Sessions Judge  atGonda in Criminal Appeal No. 292 of 1953.G.C. Mathur and C. P. Lal, for the appellant.1957.  March 26.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byIMAM  J.-This  is an appeal by the State  of  Uttar  Pradeshagainst	 the  decision	of the Allahabad  High	Court  on  acertificate  granted by that Court that the case was  a	 fitone for appeal to this Court,771The  undisputed	 facts	are  that  one	Mohammad  Yasin	 wasprosecuted under s. 379, Indian Penal Code.  He was releasedon  bail.   The respondent along with one Ram  Narain  stoodsurety for him, having executed surety bonds under s. 499 ofthe  Code of Criminal Procedure, undertaking to produce	 theaccused	 Yasin before the Court to answer the charge and  toforfeit	 Rs.  500 each to King Emperor Qaisar-e-Hind  as  a,penalty	 if  they  failed to do so.   Yasin  absconded;	 Allattempts to secure his presence before the Court were of  noavail.	Consequently notices were issued under S. 514 of theCode of Criminal Procedure to the sureties to	  show causewhy  their  bonds should not be-forfeited.  The	 Magistrate'after  giving  the matter his consideration,  ordered  theirbonds  to be forfeited to the extent of Rs. 300	 each.	 Therespondent  appealed  to  the Sessions Judge  of  Gonda	 whodismissed  his appeal.	Dissatisfied with the orders of	 theMagistrate  and the Sessions Judge, -the respondent filed  acriminal  revision in the High I Court and Mulla J.  allowedhis  application and set aside the order of  the  Magistrateforfeiting the bond executed by him.  At the request of	 theGovernment Advocate the learned Judge granted the  requisitecertificate by virtue of which the present appeal is  beforeus.The  only  question for consideration is  whether  the	bondexecuted  by  the  respondent  was one	under  the  Code  ofCriminal Procedure and therefore capable of being  forfeitedin  accordance	with  the provisions  of  s.  514,  CriminalProcedure  Code.   Section 499 of the  Code,  requires	thatbefore any person is released on bail or released on his ownbond, a bond for such sum of money as the police officer  orCourt,	as  the	 case may be,  thinks  sufficient  shall  beexecuted  by such person, and, when he is released on  bail,by  one	 or more sufficient sureties conditioned  that	suchperson	shall attend at the time and place mentioned in	 thebond,  and  shall  continue so: to  attend  until  otherwisedirected by the police officer or Court, as the case may be.In  Schedule  V of the Code of	Criminal  Procedure  variousforms  are  set	 out and a. 555 of the	Code  provides	that,subject to the power conferred by s. 554 and by772Art.  227 of the Constitution, the forms set forth  in	thatSchedule,  with such variation as the circumstances of	eachcase  require,	may  be used  for  the	respective  purposestherein	 mentioned, and if used shall be  sufficient.	FormXLII  of that Schedule sets forth the contents of a bond  tobe  executed by an accused and his surety.  The bond  is  intwo parts-one part to be signed by the accused and the otherpart  to  be  signed by his surety or  sureties.   Both	 theaccused and the sureties in executing such a bond  guaranteethe attendance of the accused in Court whenever called	uponto answer the charge against him and in case of default alsobind  themselves to forfeit to Government the specified	 sumof  money mentioned therein.  This is what the	bond  shouldstate  since  the  Adaptation of  Laws	Order,	1950,  datedJanuary	 26,  1950.   'Previous	 to  that  Order  the	wordGovernment  did not appear in the bond.	 By virtue of cl.  4of  the	 said  Order, whenever an  expression  mentioned  incolumn 1 of the Table thereunder occurred (otherwise than ina  title or preamble or in a citation or description  of  anenactment) in an existing Central or Provincial Law  whetheran  Act, Ordinance or Regulation mentioned in the  Schedulesto  the Order, then unless that expression was by the  Orderexpressly  directed to be otherwise adapted or modified,  orto  stand  unmodified,	or to be  omitted,  there  shall  besubstituted  therefor the expression set opposite to  it  incolumn,	 2 of the said Table.  In column 1 of the Table	 thewords  " Crown " " Her Majesty " and " His Majesty "  appearand against them in column 2 the word 'Government"  appears.The plain reading of this clause is that wherever the  words"  Crown  ", "Her Majesty " or " His Majesty "	appear,	 forthem,  the word " Government " shall be substituted  in	 theexisting  Central or Provincial Laws mentioned in the  FirstSchedule  to -the Order.  The Code of Criminal Procedure  isone  of	 the  Central Laws mentioned-in	 the  said  Schedulewherein	 Schedule  V of the Code of  Criminal  Procedure  ismentioned  and the Order directs that throughout Schedule  Vof  the	 Criminal  Procedure Code,  except  where  otherwiseprovided, for the words " Her Majesty The Queen773and  "His Majesty The King" the word "Government"  shall  besubstituted.   Previous	 to the Adaptation  of	Laws  Order,1950,  there was the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1948 and	 thewords "Empress of India" appearing in the bond were repealedand  in place thereof the, words " Her Majesty the  Queen  "were  substituted.  India attained Dominion status  in	1947and  became  a	Republic in 1950.  The	Adaptation  of	LawsOrder,	1948  and that of 1950 were consequential  upon	 thechange	of status of India into a Dominion and then  into  aSovereign  Republic.  Since January 26, 1950, therefore,  nobond  executed	in favour of the Empress of India  could  besaid  to  be  a bond executed under  the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure.   The bond which the respondent had executed	 wasto forfeit to the King Emperor a certain sum of money if  hemade  default  in procuring the attendance  of	the  accusedbefore	the  court.  He did not execute a bond by  which  hebound  himself	to  forfeit  the  said	sum  either  to	 theGovernment  of	the Union of India or that of the  State  ofUttar Pradesh.	The bond executed: by him in 1953 was a bondunknown	 to the law of the Republic of India under the	Codeof Criminal Procedure at the time of its execution.  Section514  of	 the  Criminal Procedure Code empowers	a  court  toforfeit a bond which has been executed under the  provisionsof  that Code and since the bond executed by the  respondentis  not	 one under the Code of	Criminal  Procedure,  resortcould not be had to the provisions of s. 514 of the Code  toforfeit the same.It was, however, urged on behalf of the State that under cl.4  of  the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950, the form  of	 thebond   stood  amended  by  the	substitution  of  the	word"Government"  therein in place and stead of the	 words	"HerMajesty The Queen" and the bond should be read	accordingly.The  words King Emperor Qaisar-e-Hind must be deemed  as  nolonger	existing  in the forfeited bond.  Clause  4  of	 theOrder, however, directs that the word "Government" shall  besubstituted  for the words " Crown ", " Her Majesty " and  "His Majesty ". There is no mention therein of the words KingEmperor	 or  Emperor of India, Queen Empress or	 Empress  of-India or Qaisar-e-Hind as being so774substituted.   The words King Emperor Qaisar-e-Hind  in	 thebond executed by the respondent cannot therefore be read, byvirtue of cl. 4 of the Order, to mean Government.  There hasundoubtedly been some error,  carelessness or negligence  onthe  part of those on whom a duty lay to make the  necessarychanges in the phraseology of the bond set out in Schedule Vof  the Code of Criminal Procedure to be executed  under  s.499.  The fact, however, remains that the respondent had notbound himself either to the Government of the Union of Indiaor  that  of  the State of Uttar Pradesh to  have  his	bondforfeited  on his failure to produce the accused before	 thecourt and he is entitled to say that no order of  forfeiturecould be passed against him with respect to a bond which wasnot one under the Code and which was one unknown to the law,as  contained  in the Code, at the, time of  its  execution.The  objection	raised	by  the	 respondent  to	 the   orderforfeiting the bond executed by him is a substantial one andthe  said  order was made under a, misapprehension  that  itcould  be  made	 under	s.  514	 of  the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure.The appeal is accordingly dismissed.Appeal dismissed.775