PETITIONER:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH	Vs.RESPONDENT:M.   P. SINGH AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:15/12/1959BENCH:SHAH, J.C.BENCH:SHAH, J.C.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.GUPTA, K.C. DASCITATION: 1960 AIR  569		  1960 SCR  (2) 605 CITATOR INFO : F	    1966 SC1995	 (5) R	    1967 SC1364	 (9) R	    1978 SC 849	 (5,7)ACT:Commercial  Establishment-Field Workers of a Sugar  Factory-If  workers of a Commercial  Establishment-United  ProvincesShop and Commercial Establishment Act, 1947 (U.	 P. Act	 No.XXII  of 1947), s. 2(3), Factories Act, 1948 (Act  LXIII  of1948), s. 2(1).HEADNOTE:The  three  respondents, who were the General  Manager,	 theAssistant Manager and the Secretary of the Laxmi Devi  SugarMills  Ltd.,  were charged under ss. 12, 13 and	 26  of	 theUnited	Provinces  Shop and  Commercial	 Establishment	Act,1947, for contravening the provisions of the Act relating toholidays,   leave  and	maintenance  of	 certain   registersregarding  a class of field workers employed by the  companyto  guide, supervise and control growth and supply of  sugarcane  for  use in the factory.	It was	contended  on  theirbehalf that those employees were workers within the  meaningof  the	 Factories  Act and the United	Provinces  Shop	 andEstablishment  Act  did	 not apply to  them.   The  JudicialMagistrate  rejected  that  contention	and  convicted	 therespondents under S. 26 of the Act and sentenced them to paya fine of Rs. 30 each.	On a reference by the Sessions judgerecommending that the said convictions and sentences may  beset  aside, the High Court acquitted the  respondents.	 TheState Government appealed to this Court by Special Leave.Held,  that the order of acquittal passed by the High  Courtwas erroneous.The provisions of the Factories Act were intended to benefitonly  workers employed in a factory and since field  workersguiding,  supervising and controlling growth and  supply  ofsugar  cane for use in the factory were not employed in	 thefactory,  the Factories Act did not apply to them  and	theyfell  within the definition of " Commercial Establishment  "under the United Provinces Shop and Commercial EstablishmentAct, 1947.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeals Nos.	 157and 158 of 1957 and 5 of 1958.Appeals	 by special leave from the judgment and order  datedOctober	 31, 1955, of the Allahabad High Court, in  CriminalReference  Nos.	 28, 29 and 30 of 1955, arising out  of	 thejudgment and order dated December 18, 1954, of the  SessionsJudge,	Deoria,	 in Criminal Revisions Nos. 7, 8  and  9  of1954.606G.  C.	Mathur,	 C.  P.	 Lal and  G.  N.  Dikshit,  for	 theappellant.W. S. Barlingay and A. G. Ratnaparkhi, for the respondents.1959.  December 15.  The Judgment of the Court	  wasdelivered bySHAH  J.-The question which falls to be determined  in	thisgroup of appeals is whether field workers, i.e., Supervisorsand Kamdars employed by a sugar factory to guide,  superviseand  control the growth and supply of sugarcane for  use  inthe,   sugar  factory  are  employees  of  a  '	  CommercialEstablishment'	with in the meaning of the United  ProvincesShop and Commercial Establishment Act, XXII of 1947 (herein-after referred to as the Act).	The Magistrate who tried therespondents  for offences under s. 27 of the Act  held	thatthe   field   workers  were  employees	 of   a	  CommercialEstablishment.	The High Court at Allahabad took a  contraryview,  and the State of Uttar Pradesh has appealed  to	thiscourt against the order of the High Court with special leaveunder Art. 136 of the Constitution.The United Provinces Shop and Commercial Establishment	Act,1947  was  enacted to regulate the hours of  employment	 andcertain	  other	 conditions  of	 employment  in	 shops	 andcommercial  establishments.   Commercial  Establishment	  isdefined	 by  s. 2, cl. 3 of the Act.  By s. 12 of  the	Act,provision  is  made  for giving to the	employees  a  weeklyholiday	 besides holidays which may be granted under s.	 11.Section	 13  provides for granting, ordinary, casual  and  "sickness  leave."  Section  26	requires  the  employer	  tomaintain  such	registers and records and  to  display	suchnotices	  as   may  be	prescribed  and	 s.   27   penalisescontraventions of the Act and the rules made thereunder.The  Lakshmi Devi Sugar Mills Ltd. (hereinafter referred  toas   the   company)  owns  a  factory	at   Chhitauni	 formanufacturing sugar.  The three respondents are respectivelythe General Manager, Assistant Manager and Secretary of	 thecompany.   The	company	 employs certain  classes  of  fieldworkers to guide,			    607supervise and control the growth and supply of sugarcane foruse in the Factory.  The Deputy Chief inspector of Shops andCommercial   Establishment,  Uttar  Pradesh,   filed   threecomplaints  against  the  respondents in the  court  of	 theJudicial    Magistrate,	  Deoria,   charging	them	withcontravention of the provisions of ss. 12, 13 and 26 of	 theAct  in	 respect of certain field workers  employed  by	 thecompany	 for  -	 guiding, supervising  and  controlling	 thegrowth	and supply of sugarcane.  The respondents  contendedthat  the Act did not apply to those employees as they	wereworkers	 within	 the  meaning  of  the	Factories  Act	 andaccordingly  exempt  from  the operation of  the  Act.	 TheJudicial  Magistrate rejected the contention  and  convictedthe  respondents  of contravention of s. 26 of the  Act	 andsentenced  each of them to pay a fine of Rs. 30 in  each  ofthe  three  cases.   Against the orders	 of  conviction	 andsentence, the respondents preferred revision applications tothe  Court  of	Session	 at  Deoria.   The  Sessions   Judgedisagreed with the view of the Trial Magistrate and referredthe  cases to the High Court at Allahabad recommending	thatthe  orders of conviction and sentence passed by  the  TrialMagistrate  be	set  aside.  The  High	Court  accepted	 thereferences and ordered that the respondents be acquitted.By the definition of a Commercial Establishment in s. 2	 cl.3  of  the Act, the clerical and other establishments  of  afactory	 to whom the provisions of the Factories Act,  1934,do  not	 apply,	 are included in  the  connotation  of	thatexpression.  It is true that the reference in the definitionby which clerical and other establishments of factories	 areincluded  is to the Factories Act of 1934, but by virtue  ofs.  8  of  the General Clauses Act X of	 1897,	it  must  beconstrued as a reference to the provisions of the  FactoriesAct  LXIII of 1948 which repealed the Factories Act of	1934and  re-enacted it.  The contention raised by the  State  byspecial	 leave, that since the repeal of the Factories	Act,1934, in the definition of Commercial Establishment in s.  2cl. 3, are included all clerical and other establishments ofa factory without any exemption has therefore no force.608The  Factories	Act, 1948 defines a worker by s.  2  (1)  asmeaning, it    a person employed, directly or through any"a person employed, directly or thought any agency,  whetherfor  wages  or	not,  in any  manufacturing  process  or  incleaning  any part of the machinery or premises used  for  amanufacturing process, or in	   any	other kind  of	workincidental to, or connected with, the manufacturing process,or the subject of the manufacturing process."and a factory is defined by s. 2(m) as meaning any  premisesincluding the precints thereof wherein a specified number ofworkers	 on  any  day  of the  preceding  twelve  months  isemployed.   By the combined operation of these	definitions,persons employed in any manufacturing process or in cleaningany  part of the machinery or part of the premises used	 forthe  manufacturing  process  or	 any  other  kind  of	workincidental to or connected with the manufacturing process orthe  subject of the manufacturing process are deemed  to  beworkers	 in  a	factory.   By the use in s.  2	(1)  of	 theFactories  Act	of the expression, I employed in  any  otherkind of work incidental to or connected with the subject  ofmanufacturing process', not only workers directly  connectedin  the manufacturing process, but those who  are  connectedwith  the subject of manufacturing process in a factory	 areincluded.  It is unnecessary for the purpose of this case todecide	the precise meaning of the expression I	 subject  ofthe  manufacturing  process' in s. 2 cl.  (1),	because	 thediverse	 provisions  of the Factories Act  are	intended  tobenefit	 only  workers employed in a factory, i.e.,  in	 theprecincts  or  'premises of a factory.	It is  difficult  tohold  that  field  workers  who	 are  employed	in  guiding,supervising  and  controlling  the  growth  and	 supply	  ofsugarcane  to be used in the factory are employed either  inthe  precincts	of  the factory or in the  premises  of	 thefactory; and if these workers are not employed in a factory,the-provisions	of the Factories Act, 1948 do not  apply  tothem  and  they evidently fall within the  definition  of  'Commercial Establishment'.  The  High Court was of the view that the  Supervisors	 andKamdars connected with the subject of			    609manufacturing process, namely sugarcane, were workers withinthe  meaning of the Factories Act and accordingly they	wereexcluded from the definition of ' Commercial  Establishment'under the Act.	However, even if the Supervisors and Kamdarswere employed  in any other kind of work connected with	 thesubject	 of  manufacturing  process  ",	 unless	 they	wereemployed in the factory, the provisions of the Factories Actdo  not	 apply to them, there is no dispute  that  they	 areemployees  of  a  '  Commercial	 Establishment'	 within	 themeaning of the Act.The  High  Court was therefore in error	 in  acquitting	 therespondents of the offences of which they were convicted  bythe Trial Magistrate.  The orders of acquittal passed by theHigh  Court are set aside and the orders of  conviction	 andsentence  passed by the Trial Magistrate are  restored.	  Inview of the order of this Court dated October 1, 1956,	madeat  the time of granting special leave, the respondents	 areentitled to their costs of hearing in this court.Appeal allowed.