PETITIONER:DEEP CHAND	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESHAND OTHERS(and connected appeal)DATE OF JUDGMENT:15/01/1959BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR  648		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2)	8 CITATOR INFO : R	    1960 SC1080	 (32) R	    1962 SC 594	 (16) RF	    1962 SC 981	 (14) RF	    1962 SC1517	 (22) E	    1962 SC1753	 (15,16) R	    1963 SC1019	 (18) R	    1963 SC1531	 (20) R	    1963 SC1561	 (11) RF	    1964 SC 381	 (53) R	    1966 SC1780	 (5) RF	    1967 SC1091	 (11) D	    1967 SC1480	 (13,21) RF	    1967 SC1643	 (110) D	    1969 SC1225	 (7,8) RF	    1972 SC 425	 (12) R	    1972 SC1738	 (15,21) RF	    1972 SC2205	 (26) RF	    1973 SC1461	 (915) RF	    1974 SC1300	 (33,41) RF	    1974 SC1480	 (10) RF	    1979 SC  25	 (40) R	    1979 SC 898	 (31) R	    1979 SC 984	 (11) R	    1983 SC1019	 (65,71) R	    1984 SC1260	 (14) RF	    1988 SC 329	 (13) R	    1990 SC 104	 (8) R	    1990 SC 761	 (4) RF	    1990 SC2072	 (11,16,31,44) R	    1992 SC1310	 (8,15)ACT:       Transport Service-Scheme of nationalisation formulated under       State   enactment  of  Amendment	 of   Central	Act-Effect-       Repugnancy--Constitutional validity of State enactment-Uttar       Pradesh Transport Service (Development) Act (IX of 1955), s.       11(5)-Motor  Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 1956 (100	 of  1956),       Ch.IV  A--General  Clauses  Act, 1897 (10 of  1897),  s.	 6-       Constitution of India-Articles 13, 31, 245, 246, 254.HEADNOTE:These  appeals impugned the constitutionality of  the  UttarPradesh Transport Service (Development) Act, 1955 (U.  P. IXOf  1955), passed by the State Legislature  after  obtainingthe assent of the President, and the validity of the  schemeof  nationalisation framed and the notifications  issued  bythe  State Government under it.	 The appellants	 as  permit-holders	 under	the Motor Vehicles Act,	 1939,	were  plyingbuses on different routes in Uttar Pradesh along with  busesowned by the State Government.	The State Government  issueda notification under S. 3 Of the impugned Act directing thatthe  said  routes along with others  should  be	 exclusivelyserved by the State buses, and followed up that notificationby  others  under ss- 4 and 8 of the  Act.   The  appellantsmoved  the  High Court under Art. 226  of  the	Constitutionchallenging   the   validity  of  the  said  Act   and	 thenotifications  thereunder.   The High Court  rejected  theirpetitions and thereafter came into force the Motor  Vehicles(Amendment)  Act (100 Of 1956), inserting Ch.  IVA into	 theAct,   which  provided	for  nationalisation  of   transportservices.    The   contentions-raised  on  behalf   of	 theappellants  were,-(1) that the passing of the  Amending	 Actmade  the impugned Act wholly void under Art. 254(1) Of	 theConstitution, (2) that the scheme framed under the  impugnedAct  fell within the purview of s. 68B of the  Amending	 Actand ceased to be operative and (3) that even 'assuming	thatthe  impugned  Act  was valid in so far as  the	 scheme	 wasconcerned,  it	violated  Art. 31 as  it  stood	 before	 theConstitution  (Fourth  Amendment)  Act,	 1955.	 A   furthercontention  on the basis of the proviso to Art.	 254(2)	 wasthat the impugned Act stood wholly repealed by the  AmendingAct,  s.  68B of the latter excluding the operation  of	 theGeneral	 Clauses  Act.	 It was contended,  inter  alia,  onbehalf	of  the State that the amendment of Art. 31  by	 theConstitution  (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955, having  removed,before the scheme under the impugned Act had9yet  been framed, the constitutional limitation	 which	thatArticle	 had imposed on the Legislature when it	 passed	 theimpugned  Act, had the effect of validating that Act  passedby it at a time when it was subject to the limitation.Held, (per curiam), that the Uttar Pradesh Transport Service(Development)  Act,  1955, did not, on the  passing  of	 theMotor  Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 1956 (100 of 1956),  becomewholly	void  under  Art. 254(1)  Of  the  Constitution	 butcontinued  to be a valid and subsisting law  supporting	 thescheme	already	 framed under the U.P. Act.   Even  assumingthat the Amending Act had the effect, under Art. 254(2),  ofrepealing  the State Act, such repeal could not nullify	 thescheme already framed under that Act, for the provisions  ofs. 6 of the General Clauses Act would operate to save it.Nor could it be said, having regard to the provisions of theimpugned  Act  and particularly s. II(5)  thereof,  that  itoffended Art. 31 of the Constitution as it stood before	 theConstitution  (Fourth  Amendment) Act, 1955, by	 failing  toprovide for the payment of adequate compensation.Per  Das,  C.J., and Sinha J.-There was no  reason  why	 thedoctrine  of eclipse as explained in Bhikaji Narain  Dhakrasv.  The State of Madhya Pradesh, [1955] 2 S.C.R. 589,  couldnot  also apply to a post-Constitution law that infringed  afundamental right conferred on citizens alone.	Such a	law,though shadowed and rendered ineffective by the	 fundamentalright  so far as the citizens were concerned,  would  remaineffective so far as noncitizens were concerned.	 The  momentthe  shadow was removed by a constitutional  amendment,	 thelaw would apply to citizens without re-enactment.John M. Wilkerson v. Charles A. Rahrer, (1891) 140 U.S. 545;35  L.	Ed.,572 and Bhikaji Nayain Dhakras v. The  State  ofMadhya Pradesh, [1955] 2 S.C.R. 589, referred to.The question whether a post-Constitution law that  infringeda  fundamental right guaranteed to all persons, citizens  ornoncitizens'  would  be	 subject to  that  doctrine  should,however, be left open.Held,  (per Bhagwati, Subba Rao and Wanchoo, jj.),  that  itwas apparent from the provisions of Arts. 254, 246 and 13 ofthe   Constitution,  read  together,  that  the	  power	  ofParliament  and	 the -State Legislature to  make  laws	withregard to any of the matters enumerated in the relevant listin the Seventh Schedule was subject to the provisions of theConstitution   including  Art.	13.   There  was   a   cleardistinction between the two clauses of Art.  I3.  Under	 cl.(1), pre-Constitution law subsisted except to the extent  ofits  inconsistency with the provisions of Part	III  whereasunder  Cl. (2) any post-Constitution law contravening  thoseprovisions was a nullity from its inception to the extent ofsuch contravention.  The words "any law" in the second	lineof2Cl.  (2)  meant an.  Act factually passed in  spite  of	 theprohibition contained therein, and did not pre-suppose	thatthe  law made was not a nullity.  That prohibition  went  tothe  root and limited the State's power of  legislation	 andlaw made in spite of it was a still-born one.In construing the constitutional provisions relating to	 thepowers of the legislature embodied in Arts. 245 and 13(2) ofthe  Constitution, no distinction should be made as  betweenan  affirmative	 and  a negative  provision,  for  both	 arelimitations on that power.K.   C. Gajapati Narayan Deo v. The State of Orissa,  [1954]S.C.R. 1, referred to.A  distinction, well-recognised in judicial decisions,	had,however,  to  be made in judging the effect of law  made  intransgression  of the limits fixed by Arts. 245	 and  I3(2),between	 an  Act that was void from its	 inception  and	 onethat, though valid when made, was rendered  unconstitutionallater on.  On that distinction was based the principle	thatan  after-acquired power could not validate a statute and  alaw validly made could take effect when the obstruction	 wasremoved.A review of the relevant authorities and judicial  decisionsclearly	 established,  (1) that	 affirmative  conferment  ofpower to make laws subject-wise and the negative prohibitionfrom infringing any fundamental rights were but two,,aspectsof  want of legislative power, (2) that by expressly  makingthe  power  to	legislate  on the  entries  in	the  SeventhSchedule  subject to other provisions of  the  Constitution,that  power  was subjected to the limitations laid  down  inPart III of the Constitution, (3) that, therefore, a law  inderogation  or	in  excess of such power would	be  void  abinitio	either wholly or to the extent of the  contraventionand  that (4) the doctrine of eclipse could be invoked	onlyin  the	 case  of a law that was valid	when  made  but	 wasrendered    invalid   by   a   supervening    constitutionalinconsistency.Newberry  v.  United State, (1912) 265 U.S. 232; 65  L.	 Ed.9I3; John M. Wilkerson v. Charyles A. Rahrer, (1891) 140  U.S. 545; 35 L. Ed. 572; Carter v. Egg and Egg Pulp  MarketingBoard,	(1942) 66 C.L.R. 557; Keshavan Madhava Menon v.	 TheState of Bombay, [1951] S.C.R. 228; Behram Khurshed Pesikakav. The State Of Bombay, [1955) 1 S.C.R. 589; Saghir Ahmed v.The State of U. P. [1955] 1 S.C.R. 707; Ram Chandra Balai v.State  of Orissa, [1956] S.C.R. 28 and Pannalal	 Binjraj  v.Union	of  India,  [1957]  S.C.R.  233,  referred  to	 anddiscussed.The tests of repugnancy between two statutes, one passed  bythe Parliament and the other by the State Legislature, were,(1)  whether there was a direct conflict between  them,	 (2)whether	 Parliament intended to lay down an exhaustive	codein  respect of the subject-matter replacing the Act  of	 theState  Legislature, and (3) whether both the  laws  occupiedthe same field.A comparison of the provisions of the two Acts indicated11that  both were intended to operate in respect of  the	samesubject matter and the same field but only in respect of theschemes	 initiated  after  the Amending Act  had  come	intoforce,	the latter Act having no retrospective effect.	 TheState Act must, therefore, yield place to the Central Act tothat  extent  and  become void only in	respect	 of  schemesframed under the Central Act.Keshavan Madhava Menon v. The State of Bombay, [1951] S.C.R.228, applied.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 380 to 389,391 to 399, 401, 429 and 431 to 434 of 1958.Appeals	 from  the judgment and decree	dated  December	 19,1956, of the Allahabad High Court in Civil Misc.  Writs Nos.1574,  1575,  1576,  1577,  1578,  1579,1444,1584,1586,1589,1631, 1632, 1634, 1635, 1636,1694, 1695,  1697, 1704,  1707,3726, 1647, 1948 and 1949 and 1956.M.   K. Nambiyar, Shyam Nath Kacker, J. B. Dadachanji, S. N.Andley	and  Rameshwar Nath, for the appellants (in  C.	 As.Nos.  380-385, 387-389, 391-399 and 401 of  1958).S.N.Kacker and J. B. Dadachanji, for the appellant (in C. A.No. 386/58).Naunit	Lal, for the appellants (in C. As.  Nos. 429 &	431-434/58).K.   B. Asthana & G. N. Dikshit, for the respondents.1959.	January 15.  The judgment of Das, C. J., and  Sinha,J.,  was delivered by Das, C. J. The judgment  of  Bhagwati,Subba Rao and Wanchoo, JJ., was delivered by Subba Rao, J.DAS,  C.  J.-We	 have  had the	advantage  of  perusing	 thejudgment  prepared by our learned Brother Subba Rao and	 'weagree  with the order proposed by him, namely, that all	 theabove appeals should be dismissed with costs, although we donot subscribe to all the reasons advanced by him.The relevant facts and the several points raised by  learnedcounsel for the appellants and the petitioners in support ofthe  appeals have been fully set out in the  judgment  whichour  learned  Brother will presently deliver and it  is	 notnecessary for us to set out the12same here.  Without committing ourselves to all the  reasonsadopted by our learned Brother, we agree with his  followingconclusions,  namely, (1) that the Uttar  Pradesh  TransportService	  (Development)	  Act,	1955  (Act  IX	 of   1955),hereinafter  referred to as the U. P. Act, did -not, on	 thepassing of the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 1956 (100  of1956),	hereinafter referred to as the Central	Act,  becomewholly	void  under  Art. 254(1)  of  the  Constitution	 butcontinued  to be a valid and subsisting law  supporting	 thescheme already framed under the U. P. Act; (2) that, even ifthe  Central  Act  be construed	 as  amounting,	 under	Art.254(2),	 to a repeal of the U. P. Act, such repeal  did	 notdestroy or efface the scheme already framed under the U.  P.Act,  for the provisions of s. 6 of the General Clauses	 Actsaved  the same; (3) that the U. P. Act did not	 offend	 theprovisions  of	Art.  31 of the Constitution,  as  it  stoodbefore the Constitution (4th Amendment) Act, 1955, for.	 theU.  P. Act and in particular s. 11(5) thereof  provided	 forthe  payment of adequate compensation.	These  findings	 arequite  sufficient  to  dispose of the points  urged  by	 Mr.Nambiyar  and  Mr. Naunit Lal in support of the	 claims	 andcontentions of their respective clients.In view of the aforesaid finding that the U. P. Act did	 notinfringe the fundamental rights guaranteed by Art. 31, it iswholly	unnecessary  to	 discuss  the  following  questions,namely,	 (a)  whether  the provisions of 'Part	III  of	 theConstitution  enshrining  the fundamental  rights  are	merechecks	 or  limitations  on  the   legislative	  competencyconferred on Parliament and the State Legislatures by  Arts.245  and 246 read with the relevant entries in the Lists  inthe Seventh Schedule to the Constitution or are an  integralpart of the provisions defining, prescribing and  conferringthe  legislative competency itself and (b) whether the	doc-trine of eclipse is applicable only to pre-Constitution lawsor  can apply also to any post-Constitution law which  fallsunder  Art.  13(2) of the Constitution.	  As,  however,	 ourlearned Brother has thought fit to embark upon a  discussionof  these  questions, we desire to guard  ourselves  againstbeing understood as13accepting or acquiescing in the conclusion that the doctrineof  eclipse  cannot apply to any post-Constitution  law.   Apost-Constitution  law	may infringe  either  a	 fundamentalright  conferred  on citizens only or  a  fundamental  rightconferred  on  any person, citizen or non-citizen.   In	 thefirst case the law will not stand in the way of the exerciseby  the citizens of that fundamental right  and,  therefore,will  not have any operation on the rights of the  citizens,but it will be quite effective as regards non-,citizens.  Insuch  a case the fundamental right will, qua  the  citizens,throw a shadow on the law which will nevertheless be on	 theStatute	 Book as a valid law binding on non-citizens and  ifthe  shadow is removed by a constitutional  ,amendment,	 thelaw  will  immediately be applicable even  to  the  citizenswithout being re-enacted.  The decision in John M. Wilkersonv.  Charles  A. Rahrer (1) cited by our learned	 Brother  issquarely  in point.  In other words the doctrine of  eclipseas explained by this Court in Bhikaji Narain Dhakras v.	 TheState  of  Madhya  Pradesh  (2)	 also  applies	to  a  post-Constitution law of this kind.	Whether a  post-Constitutionlaw of the other kind, namely, which infringes a fundamentalright  guaranteed  to all persons, irrespective	 of  whetherthey are citizens or not, and which, therefore, can have  nooperation at all when it is enacted, is to be regarded as  astill  born  law as if it had not been enacted at  all	and,therefore,  not	 subject  to the doctrine of  eclipse  is  amatter	which  may be open to discussion.  On  the  findingsarrived	 at  in this case, however, a  discussion  of  theseaspects	 of the matter do not call for a considered  opinionand  we reserve our right to deal with the same if and	whenit becomes actually necessary to do so.SUBBA  RAO, J.-These twenty-five appeals are by	 certificateunder  Arts. 132 and 133 of the Constitution granted by	 theHigh Court of Judicature at Allahabad and raise the questionof  the validity of the scheme of nationalization  of  StateTransport Service formulated by the State Government and theconsequential orders made by it.(1) (1891) 140 U.S. 545; 35 L, Ed. 572,	 (2) [1955] 2 S.C.R.589.14The  said  appeals  arise out Writ  Petitions  filed  by  heappellants  in	the  Allahabad High  Court  challenging	 thevalidity  of the U. P. Transport Services (Development)	 Actof  1955,  being  U.  P. Act No.  IX  of  1955	(hereinafterreferred to as the U. P. Act), and the notifications  issuedthereunder.   All the appeals were consolidated by order  ofthe High Court.The  appellants	 have  been carrying on	 business  as  stagecarriage  operators  for a considerable number of  years  ondifferent  routes  in  Uttar Pradesh  under  valid,  permitsissued under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, along with  busesowned by Government.  The U. P. Legislature, after obtainingthe assent of the President on April 23, 1955, passed the U.P. Act and duly	 published it on April 24, 1955.  Under s. 3of the U. P. Act, the Government issued a notification datedMay 17, 1955, whereunder it was directed that the  aforesaidroutes along with others should be exclucively served by thestage  carriages  of the Government and	 the  private  stagecarriages should be excluded from those routes.	 On November12,  1955, the State Government published  the	notificationunder  s. 4 of the U. P. Act formulating the scheme for	 theaforesaid  routes  among others.   The	appellants  receivednotices	 under s. 5 of the U. P. Act requiring them to	fileobjections,  if	 any,  to the said  scheme;  and  after	 theobjections were received, they were informed that they wouldbe  heard by a Board on January 2, 1956.  On that date,	 theobjections  filed by the operators other than those  of	 theAgra region were heard and the inquiry in regard to the Agraregion	was adjourned to January 7, 1956.  It  appears	thatthe operators of the Agra region did not appear on the	7th.The notification issued under s. 8 of the U. P. Act was pub-lished	in the U. P. Gazette on June 23, 1956, and  on	June25, 1956, the Secretary to the Regional Transport Authority,Agra,  sent  an order purported to have been issued  by	 theTransport Commissioner to the operators, of the Agra  regionprohibiting  them from plying their stage carriages  on	 theroutes	and also informing them that their permits would  betransferred to other routes.  On July 7, 1956, a notice	 wassent to15filed Writ Petitions in the Allahabad High Court challengingthe  validity of the U. P. Act and the notifications  issuedthereunder.The  facts  in	Civil Appeal No. 429 of	 1958  are  slightlydifferent  from	 those	in other appeals  and  they  may  bestated:	 The  appellant's  application for  renewal  of	 hispermanent  permit was rejected in 1953; but, on appeal,	 theState  Transport  Authority Tribunal allowed his  appeal  onSeptember 6,1956, and directed his permit to be renewed	 forthree  years beginning from November 1, 1953.	Pursuant  tothe  order  of the Tribunal, the  appellant's  pert-nit	 wasrenewed	 with effect from November 1, 1953, and it was	madevalid up to October 31, 1956.  The scheme of nationalisationwas  initiated and finally approved between the date of	 therejection of the appellant's application for renewal and thedate when his appeal was allowed.  The appellant applied  onOctober	 11, 1956, for the renewal of his permit and he	 wasinformed by the Road Transport Authority, Allahabad, that noaction	on  his application, under reference  was  possible.The  appellant's  contention,  among others,  was  that	 theentire proceedings were taken behind his back and  thereforethe scheme was not binding on him.The  appellants in thirteen appeals, namely,  Civil  AppealsNos. 387 to 389, 391 to 394, 396 to 399 and 401 and 429 wereoffered	  alternative  routes.	 Though	  they	 tentativelyaccepted the offer, presumably on the ground that it was thelesser	of the two evils, in fact they obtained stay  as  aninterim	 arrangement  and continued to operate	on  the	 oldroutes.The appellants filed applications for permission to urge newgrounds in the appeals, which were not taken before the HighCourt.	The said grounds read :--(i)  That  by reason of the  coming into  operation  of	 theMotor  Vehicles (Amendment) Act, No. 100 of 1956, passed  byParliament   and   published  in  the	Gazette	  of   IndiaExtraordinary dated 31st December, 1956, the impugned U.  P.Act No. IX of 1955 has become void.(ii) That  by reason of Article 254 of the  Constitution  ofIndia, the said impugned Act No. IX of 1955,16being  repugnant and inconsistent with the Central  Act	 No.100 of 1956, has become void since the coming into operationof the aforesaid Act No. 100 of 1956 ". The judgment of	 theAllahabad  High Court, which is the subject-matter of  theseappeals,  was delivered on December 19, 1956.  The  AmendingAct  of	 1956  was published on December 31,  1956.   It  istherefore manifest that the appellants could not have raisedthe  aforesaid grounds before the High Court.  Further,	 thegrounds raise only a pure question of law not dependent uponthe elucidation of any further facts.  In the circumstances,we  thought it to be a fit case for allowing the  appellantsto  raise the new grounds and we accordingly gave  them	 thepermission.Mr.  M.	 K. Nambiar, appearing for some of  the	 appellants,raised	before	us  the	 following  points:  (i)  The  MotorVehicles  (Amendment)  Act  (100 of  1956)  passed  by,	 theParliament is wholly repugnant to the provisions of the U. PAct   and  therefore  the  latter  became  void	 under	 theprovisions of Article 254(1) of the Constitution ; with	 theresult	that,  at the present time, there is  no  valid	 lawwhereunder  the Government can prohibit the appellants	fromexercising  their fundamental right under the  Constitution,namely, to carry on their business of motor transport;	(ii)the  scheme framed under the Act, being one made to  operatein  future and from day to day, is an instrument within	 themeaning	 of  s. 68B of the Amending Act, and  therefore	 theprovisions  of the Amending Act would prevail over those  ofthe  scheme, and after the Amending Act came into force,  itwould  have no operative force; and (iii) even if the U.  P.Act was valid and continued to be in force in regard to	 thescheme framed thereunder, it would offend the provisions  ofArt.   31  of  the  Constitution,  as  it  was	before	 theConstitution  (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955, as,	 though	 theState had acquired the appellant's interest in a  commercialundertaking,  no  compensation	for the	 said  interest	 wasgiven,	as it should be under the said Article.	  The  otherlearned	 -Counsel,  who	 followed Mr.  Nambiar,	 except	 Mr.Naunit	Lal,  adopted  his argument.   Mr.  Naunit  Lal,  inaddition to the argument17advanced by Mr. Nambiar in regard to the first point,  basedhis  contention	 on  the  proviso  to  Art.  254(2)  of	 theConstitution rather than on Art. 254(1).  He contended	thatby reason of the Amending Act,,, the U. P. Act was  repealedin  toto  and, because of s. 68B of the	 Amending  Act,	 theoperation  of the provisions of the General Clauses Act	 wasexcluded.  In addition, he contended that in Appeal No.	 429of  1958,  the	scheme,	 in  so	 far  as  it  affected	 theappellant's route was bad inasmuch as no notice was given tohim before the scheme was approved.We  shall proceed to consider the argument advanced  by	 Mr.Nambiar in the order adopted by him; but before doing so, itwould  be convenient to dispose of the point raised  by	 thelearned	 Advocate  General, for it goes to the root  of	 thematter, and if it is decided in his favour, -other questionsdo  not fall for consideration.	 The question raised by	 thelearned	 Advocate  General may be posed	 thus:	whether	 theamendment  of  the Constitution	 removing  a  constitutionallimitation on a legislature to make a particular law has theeffect	of validating the Act made by it when its power	 wassubject	 to that limitation.  The present  case	 illustratesthe  problem  presented	 by the said question.	 The  U.  P.Legislature  passed  the  U.  P.  Act  on  April  24,  1955,whereunder  the State Government was authorized to  frame  ascheme	 of  nationalization  of  motor	 transport.    Afterfollowing  the	procedure  prescribed  therein,	 the   StateGovernment  finally published the scheme on June  23,  1956.The Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955, received	 theassent	of  the	 President on April 27,	 1955.	 The  -StateGovernment  framed the scheme under the U. P. Act after	 thepassing	 of the Constitution (Fourth Amendment)	 Act,  1955.Under  the said Amendment Act, el. (2) of Art. 31  has	beenamended	 and cl. (2A) has been inserted.  The effect of	 theamendment  is that unless the law provides for the  transferof  ownership or right to possession of any property to	 theState or to a Corporation owned or controlled by the  State,it  shall  not	be  deemed to  provide	for  the  compulsoryacquisition or318requisition  of	 property within the meaning of cl.  (2)  ofthat Article and therefore where there is no such  transfer,the condition imposed by cl. (2), viz., that the law  Shouldfix the amount of compensation or specify the	  principleson  which and the manner in which the compensation is to  bedetermined  and	 given is not attracted.  If  the  amendmentapplies	 to  the  U.  P. Act, as there	is  no	transfer  ofproperty  to the State, no question of compensation  arises.On  the other hand, if the unamended Article governs the  U.P.  Act, the question of compensation will be  an  importantfactor in deciding its validity.  The answer to the  problemso  presented  depends upon the legal effect  of  a  consti-tutional limitation of the legislative power on the law madein  derogation of that limitation.  A distinction is  soughtto  be made by the learned Advocate General between the	 lawmade in excess of the power conferred on a legislature underthe  relevant List in the Seventh Schedule and that made  inviolation of the provisions of Part III of the Constitution.The  former,  it  is  suggested, goes to  the  root  of	 thelegislative power, whereas the latter, it is said,  operatesas  a check on that power, with the result that the  law  somade is unenforceable, and as soon as the check is  removed,the law is resuscitated and becomes operative from the	datethe check is removed by the constitutional amendment.Mr. Nambiar puts before us the following two propositions insupport	 of  his contention that the law so made  in  eithercontingency  is	 void  ab initio:  (i)	the  paramountcy  offundamental rights over all legislative powers in respect ofall the Lists in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution issecured	 by  the double process of the prohibition  laid  byArt. 13(2) and the restrictions imposed by Art. 245,  unlikethe  mere  implied prohibition implicit in the	division  ofpower  under Art. 246; and (ii) where the provisions  of  anenactment passed by a legislature after January 26, 1950, inwhole or in part-subject to the doctrine of severability-arein conflict with the provisions of Part III, the statute, inwhole  or  in part, is void ab initio.	 This  question	 wassubjected to judicial scrutiny by this19Court,	but before we consider the relevant authorities,  itwould	be  convenient	to  test  its  validity	  on   firstprinciples.The relevant Articles of the Constitution read as  follows:Article	  245:	 "(1)Subject  to  the  provision   of	thisConstitution, Parliament may make laws for the whole or	 anypart  of  the territory Of India, and the Legislature  of  aState may make laws for the whole or any part of the State."Article	 246: " (1) Notwithstanding anything in clauses	 (2)and  (3)  Parliament has exclusive power to make  laws	withrespect	 to any of the matters enumerated in List I  in	 theSeventh	 Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as	the"Union List ").(2)  Notwithstanding anything in clause (3), Parliament and,subject	 to clause (1), the Legislature of any	State  also,have power to make. laws with respect to any of the  mattersenumerated  in	List III in the Seventh	 Schedule  (in	thisConstitution referred to as the " Concurrent List").(3)  Subject to clauses (1) and (2), the Legislature of	 anyState has exclusive power to make laws for such State or anypart  thereof with respect to any of the matters  enumeratedin  List  II in the Seventh Schedule (in  this	Constitutionreferred to as the " State List ").(4)  Parliament	 has power to make laws with respect to	 anymatter	for any part of the territory of India not  includedin  a  State notwithstanding that such matter  is  a  matterenumerated in the State List."Article	 13:  " (1) All laws in force in  the  territory  ofIndia	immediately   before  the   commencement   of	thisConstitution,  in so far as they are inconsistent  with	 theprovisions  of	this  Part, shall, to  the  extent  of	suchinconsistency, be void.(2)  The  State shall Dot make any law which takes  away  orabridges the rights conferred by this Part and any law	madein contravention of this clause shall, to the extent of	 thecontravention  be void."20Article 31 (Before the -Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act,1955):"  (1) No person shall be deprived of his property  save  byauthority of law.(2)  No	 property,  movable  or	 immovable,  including	 anyinterest  in,  or in any company owning, any  commercial  orindustrial  undertaking,  shall be taken  possession  of  oracquired  for public purposes under any law authorising	 thetaking	of such possession or such acquisition,	 unless	 thelaw  provides  for  compensation  for  the  property   takenpossession of or acquired and either fixes the amount of thecompensation, or specifies the principles on which, -and themanner	in which, the compensation is to be  determined	 andgivenThe  combined  effect of the said provisions may  be  statedthus:  Parliament and the Legislatures of States have  powerto make laws in respect of any of the matters enumerated  inthe relevant lists in the Seventh Schedule and that power tomake  laws is subject to the provisions of the	Constitutionincluding  Art. 13, i.e., the power is made subject  to	 thelimitations  imposed by Part III of the	 Constitution.	 Thegeneral	 power	to that extent is limited.   A	Legislature,therefore, has no power to make any law in derogation of theinjunction  contained in Art. 13.  Article 13(1) deals	withlaws.in	  force	 in  the  territory  of	 India	before	 thecommencement of the Constitution and such laws in so far  asthey are inconsistent with the provisions of Part III shall,to  the extent of such inconsistency be void.	The  clause,therefore, recognizes the validity of, the  pre-Constitutionlaws  and  only declares that the said laws  would  be	voidthereafter  to the extent of their inconsistency  with	PartIII; whereas - cl. (2) of that article imposes a prohibitionon the State making laws taking away or abridging the rightsconferred  by  Part  III  and declares	that  laws  made  incontravention  of  this clause shall, to the extent  of	 thecontravention,	be  void.   There  is  a  clear	 distinctionbetween the two clauses.  Under el. (1), a  pre-Constitutionlaw subsists except to the extent of its inconsistency	withthe  provisions of Part III; whereas,  no  post-Constitutionlaw21can  be	 made contravening the provisions of Part  III,	 andtherefore the law, to that extent, though made, is a nullityfrom  its inception.  If this clear distinction is borne  inmind,  much of the cloud raised is dispelled.  When cl.	 (2)of Art. 13 says in clear and unambiguous terms that no Stateshall  make any law which takes away or abridges the  rightsconferred  by  Part  III, it will not  avail  the  State  tocontend either that the clause does not embody a curtailmentof  the power to legislate or that it imposes only  a  checkbut not a prohibition.	A constitutional prohibition againsta  State  making  certain laws cannot be  whittled  down  byanalogy	 or  by drawing inspiration from  decisions  on	 theprovisions of other Constitutions; nor can we appreciate theargument  that the words " any law " in the second  line  ofArt. 13(2) posits the survival of the law made in the  teethof  such prohibition.  It is said that a law can  come	intoexistence only when it is made and therefore any law made incontravention  of that clause presupposes that the law	madeis  not a nullity.  This argument may be subtle but  is	 notsound.	 The words " any law " in that clause can only	meanan  Act	 passed	 or  made  factually,  notwithstanding	 theprohibition.  The result of such contravention is stated  inthat  clause.	A  plain reading of  the  clause  indicates,without	 any reasonable doubt, that the prohibition goes  tothe root of the matter and limits the State's power to	makelaw;  the law made in spite of the prohibition is  a  still-born law.Cooley	in  his book " Constitutional  Limitations"  (EighthEdition, Volume I), states at page 379:"  From what examination has been given to this subject,  itappears	 that whether a statute is constitutional or not  isalways a question of power; that is, a question whether	 thelegislature  in	 the  particular case,	in  respect  to	 thesubject-matter of the act, the manner in which its object isto  be accomplished, and the mode of enacting it,  has	keptwithin	 the   constitutional  limits	and   observed	 theconstitutional conditions."The  Judicial Committee in The Queen. v. Burah (1)  observedat page 193 as under(1)  (1878) L.R. 5 I. A. 178.22The  established courts of Justice, when a  question  ariseswhether	 the prescribed limits have been exceeded,  must  ofnecessity  determine  that question ; and ,the only  way  inwhich  they can properly do so, is by ;looking to the  termsof  the instrument by which, affirmatively, the	 legislativepowers	were  created, and by which,  negatively,  they	 arerestricted."The Judicial Committee again in Attorney-General for Ontariov. Attorney-General for Canada (1) crisply stated the  legalposition at page 583 as follows:-"...............  if the text is explicit the text  is	con-clusive, alike in what it directs and what it forbids."The  same idea is lucidly expressed by Mukherjea, J., as  hethen  was,  in K. C. Gajapati Narayan Deo v.  The  State  ofOrissa (2).  It is stated at page 11 as follows:-" If the Constitution of a State distributes the legislativepowers	amongst different bodies, which have to	 act  withintheir respective spheres marked out by specific	 legislativeentries,  or  if there are limitations	on  the	 legislativeauthority  in the shape of fundamental rights, questions  doarise as to whether the legislature in a particular case hasor has not, in respect to the subject_matter of the  statuteor in the method of enacting it, transgressed the limits  ofits constitutional powers."The  learned Judge in the aforesaid passage clearly  acceptsthe doctrine that both the transgression of the ambit of theentry  or  of  the limitation provided	by  the	 fundamentalrights	are  equally  transgressions of the  limits  of	 theState's constitutional powers.It  is, therefore, manifest that in the construction of	 theconstitutional	provisions  dealing with the powers  of	 thelegislature,  a	 distinction  cannot  be  made	between	  anaffirmative provision I and a negative provision; for,	bothare   limitations   on	 the   power.	 The	Constitutionaffirmatively  confers	a power on the legislature  to	makelaws  within the ambit of the relevant entries in the  listsand negatively prohibits it from making laws infringing	 thefundamental rights.  It(1) (1912) A.C. 571.(2) [1954] S.C.R. 1.23goes further and makes the -legislative power subject to theprohibition  under  Art.  13(2).  Apparent  wide  power	 is,therefore, reduced to the extent of the prohibition.If  Arts.  245 and 13(2) define the ambit of  the  power  tolegislate,  what  is the effect of a law made in  excess  ofthat  power ? The American Law gives a direct  and  definiteanswer	to  this question.  Cooley in his  "  ConstitutionalLimitations  " (Eighth Edition, Volume I) at page 382  underthe heading " Consequences if a statute is void " says :-"  When a statute is adjudged to be unconstitutional, it  isas if it had never been................. And what is true ofan  act void in toto is true also as to any part of  an	 actwhich	is   found  to	be  unconstitutional,	and   which,consequently,  is  to be regarded as having  never,  at	 anytime, been possessed of any legal force."In  Rottschaefer  on Constitutional Law, much  to  the	sameeffect is stated at page 34:"  The legal status of a legislative provision in so far  asits   application  involves  violation	 of   constitutionalprovisions,  must however be determined in the light of	 thetheory	on which Courts ignore it as law in the decision  ofcases  in  which its application  produces  unconstitutionalresults.    That   theory  implies  that   the	 legislativeprovisions never had legal force as applied to cases  withinthat clause."In " Willis on Constitutional Law ", at page 89:"  A  judicial declaration of the unconstitutionality  of  astatute	 neither annuls nor repeals the statute but has	 theeffect	of  ignoring  or  disregarding	it  so	far  as	 thedetermination of the rights of private parties is concerned.The   Courts   generally   say	that  the   effect   of	  anunconstitutional statute is nothing.  It is as though it hadnever been passed........................."  Willoughby  on Constitution of the United  States  SecondEdition, Volume I, page 10:" The Court does not annul or repeal the statute if it findsit in conflict with the Constitution.  It simply refuses  torecognize it, and determines the rights of24the  parties	just   as   if	 such	statute	   had	  noapplication. ....................The   validity	of  a  statute	is  to	be  tested  by	 theconstitutional	power  of a legislature at the time  of	 itsenactment  by that legislature, and, if thus tested,  it  isbeyond	the  legislative power, it is  not  rendered  valid,without re-enactment, if later, by constitutional amendment,the  necessary	legislative power is granted.  I  An  after-acquired power cannot, ex proprio vigore, validate a statutevoid 'When enacted'." However, it has been held that where an act is within	 thegeneral	 legislative  power  of the enacting  body,  but  isrendered  unconstitutional  by reason of  some	adventitiouscircumstance,  as, for example, when a State legislature  isprevented  from	 regulating a matter by reason of  the	factthat  the Federal Congress has already legislated upon	thatmatter,	 or by reason of its silence is to be  construed  asindicating that there should be no regulation, the act	doesnot  need to be re-enacted in order to be enforced, if	thiscause of its unconstitutionality is removed.  "For  the  former proposition, the decision  in	Newberry  v.United	States	(1)  and  for  the  latter  proposition	 thedecision  in John M. Wilkerson v. Charles A. Rahrer (2)	 arecited.	 In  Newberry's	 Case the validity  of	the  FederalCorrupt	 Practices  Act of 1910, as amended by	the  Act  of1911,  fixing the maximum sum which a candidate might  spendto   procure  his  nomination  at  a  primary  election	  orconvention  was challenged.  At the time of  the  enactment,the   Congress	 had  no  power	 to  make  that	  law,	 butsubsequently, by adoption of the 17th Amendment, it acquiredthe said power.	 The question was whether an  after-acquiredpower could validate a statute which was void when  enacted.Mr.  justice McReynolds delivering the opinion of the  courtstates the principle at page 920 :" Moreover, the criminal statute now relied upon  ante-datesthe  17th Amendment, and must be tested by powers  possessedat time of its enactment.  An(1)  (1921) 256 U.S. 232; 65 L. Ed. 913.(2)  (1891) 140 U.S. 545; 35 L. Ed. 572.25after-acquired	power cannot, ex proprio vigore, validate  astatute void when enacted."In  Wilkerson's Case (1) the facts were that in	 June  1890,the petitioner, a citizen of the United States and an  agentof  Maynard,  Hopkins  & Co., received	from  his  principalintoxicating liquor in packages.  The packages were  shippedfrom the State of Missouri to various points in the State ofKansas and other States.  On August 9, 1890, the  petitioneroffered	 for  sale  and sold two packages in  the  State  ofKansas.	  The  packages sold were a portion  of	 the  liquorshipped	 by Maynard, Hopkins & Co. It was sold in  the	samepackages  in  which  it was received.	The  petitioner	 wasprosecuted  for violating the Prohibitory Liquor Law of	 theState  of  Kansas; for, under the said law, "any  person  orpersons	 who  shall  manufacture, sell	or  barter  any	 in-toxicating  liquors, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor ".  OnAugust 8, 1890, an Act of Congress was passed to the  effectthat -intoxicating liquors transported into any State shouldupon  arrival in such State be subject to the operation	 andeffect of the laws of such State.  It will be seen from	 theaforesaid  facts that at the time the State Laws were  made,they  were valid, but they did not operate upon packages  ofliquors	 imported  into the Kansas State in  the  course  ofinterstate  commerce,  for  the	 regulation  of	 inter-Statecommerce was within the powers of the Congress; and that be-fore the two sales in the Kansas State, the Congress made anAct  making  intoxicating liquors transported into  a  Statesubject to the laws of that State, with the result that fromthat  date  the	 State	Laws  operated	on  the	 liquors  sotransported.   Under those circumstances, the Supreme  Courtof the United States held :"  It  was not necessary, after the passage of	the  Act  ofCongress of August 8, 1890, to re-enact the Law of Kansas of1899,  forbidding the sale of intoxicating liquors  in	thatState, in order to make such State Law operative on the saleof imported liquors."The reason for the decision is found at page 578:(1)  (1891) 140 U.S. 545; 35 L. Ed. 572.426This  is not the case of a law enacted in  the	unauthorizedexercise of a power exclusively confided to Congress, but ofa  law	which it was competent for the	State to  pass,	 butwhich  could not operate upon articles occupying  a  certainsituation  until the passage of the Act of  Congress.	ThatAct  in	 terms	removed the obstacle,  and  we	perceive  noadequate  ground  for adjudging that a re-enactment  of	 theState Law was required before it could have the effect	uponimported which it had always had upon domestic property.A reference to these decisions brings out in bold relief thedistinction  between  the two classes of cases	referred  totherein.  It will be seen from the two decisions that in theformer the Act was Void from its inception and in the latterit  was valid when made but it could not operate on  certainarticles  imported in the course of inter-State	 trade.	  Onthat  distinction  is  based the principle  that  an  after-acquired power cannot, ex proprio vigore, validate a statutein one case, and in the other, a law validly made would takeeffect when the obstruction is removed.The  same principle is enunciated in Carter v. Egg  and	 EggPulp  Marketing Board (1).  Under s. 109 of  the  AustralianConstitution " when a law of a State- is inconsistent with alaw  of the Commonwealth, the latter shall prevail, and	 theformer	shall,	to  the	 extent	 of  the  inconsistency,  beinvalid.   "  Commenting  on that section,  Latham,  C.	 J.,observed at page 573:"  This section applies only in cases Where, apart from	 theoperation  of  the section, both the  Commonwealth  and	 theState Laws which are in question would be valid.  If  eitheris invalid ab initio by reason of lack of power, no questioncan  arise under the section.  The word " invalid " in	thissection	 cannot be interpreted as meaning that a  State	 lawwhich-	is  affected by the section becomes ultra  vires  inwhole or in part.  If the Commonwealth law were repealed theState law would again become operative.	 "We shall now proceed to consider the decisions of this Courtto ascertain whether the said principles are(1)  (1942) 66 C.L.R. 557.27accepted  or departed from.  The earliest case	is  KeshavanMadhava	 Menon	v.  The	 State of  Bombay  (1).	  There	 thequestion was whether a prosecution launched under the IndianPress (Emergency Powers) Act, 1931, before the	Constitutioncould  be continued after the Constitution was passed.	 Theobjection taken was that the said law was inconsistent	withfundamental  rights and therefore was void.  In the  contextof the question raised, it became necessary for the Court toconsider  the impact of Art. 13(1) on the laws	made  beforethe Constitution.  The Court, by a majority, held that	Art.13(1) of the Indian Constitution did not make existing	lawswhich  were  inconsistent with fundamental  rights  void  abinitio,	 but  only rendered such laws ineffectual  and	voidwith  respect to the exercise of the fundamental  rights  onand  after the date of the commencement of the	Constitutionand  that  it had no retrospective effect.  Das, J.,  as  hethen was, observed at page 233:"  It will be noticed that all that this clause declares  isthat  all existing laws, in so far as they are	inconsistentwith the provisions of Part III shall, to the extent of suchinconsistency,	be  void.   Every  statute  is	prima  facieprospective   unless  it  is  expressly	 or   by   necessaryimplications made to have retrospective operation.  "At  page 234, the learned Judge proceeded to state:" They	are not void for all purposes but they are void onlyto  the extent they come into conflict with the	 fundamentalrights.	  In other words, on and after the  commencement  ofthe Constitution no existing law -will be permitted to standin the way of the exercise of any of the fundamental rights.Therefore,  the voidness of the existing law is	 limited  tothe	 future	    exercise	 of	the	 fundamentalrights..................  Such	laws  exist  for  all	pasttransactions  and for enforcing all rights  and	 liabilitiesaccrued before the date of the Constitution.  "At page 235, the same idea is put in different words thus :-".......................Article 13(1) only has the effect of(1)  [1951] S.C.R. 228.28nullifying  or	rendering  all	inconsistent  existing	lawsineffectual  or	 nugatory and devoid of any legal  force  orbinding	 effect	 only  with  respect  to  the  exercise	  Offundamental rights on and after the date of the commencementof the Constitution.  "At page 236, the learned Judge concludes:"  So  far as the past acts are concerned  the	law  exists,notwithstanding	 that it does not exist with respect to	 thefuture	exercise of fundamental rights."Mahajan,  J.,  as  he then was,	 who  delivered	 a  separatejudgment, put the same view in different phraseology at page251 :"  The	effect of Article 13(1) is only prospective  and  itoperates  in respect to the freedoms which are infringed  bythe  State  subsequent	to  the coming	into  force  of	 theConstitution but the past acts of a person which came withinthe  mischief of the law then in force are Dot	affected  byPart III of the Constitution."The  learned Judge, when American law was pressed on him  insupport of the contention that even the pre-Constitution lawwas void, observed thus, at page 256 :"  It is obvious that if a statute has been enacted  and  isrepugnant to the Constitution, the statute is void since itsvery  birth  and  anything done under it is  also  void	 andillegal.   The courts in America have followed	the  logicalresult of this rule and even convictions made under such  anunconstitutional  statute  have been set  aside	 by  issuingappropriate writs.  If a statute is void from its very birththen  anything done under it, whether closed, completed,  orinchoate, will be wholly illegal and relief in one shape  oranother	 has to be given to the person affected by  such  anunconstitutional law.  This rule, however, is not applicablein   regard   to   laws	 which	were   existing	  and	wereconstitutional	according  to the Government of	 India	Act,1935.  Of course, if any law is made after the 25th January,1950, which is repugnant to the Constitution, then the	samerule  will  have  to be followed by courts in  India  as  isfollowed in America and even convictions made under such  anunconstitutional law29will  have to be set aside by resort to exercise  of  powersgiven  to this court by the Constitution."Mukherjea J., as he then was, in Behram Khurshed Pesikaka v.The  State of Bombay (1) says at page 652 much to  the	sameeffect:"  We  think  that  it is not  a  correct  proposition	thatconstitutional	provisions in Part 11I of  our	Constitutionmerely	operate	 as a check on the exercise  of	 legislativepower.	 It is axiomatic that when the lawmaking power of  aState is restricted by a written, fundamental law, then	 anylaw enacted and opposed to the fundamental law is in  excessof  the legislative authority and is thus a  nullity.	Boththese declarations of unconstitutionality go to the root  ofthe  power itself and there is no real	distinction  betweenthem.  They represent but two aspects of want of legislativepower.	 The legislative power of Parliament and  the  StateLegislatures  as  conferred by articles 245 and 246  of	 theConstitution  stands  curtailed by  the	 fundamental  rightschapter of Constitution.  A mere reference to the provisionsof  article 13(2) and articles 245 and 246 is sufficient  toindicate  that	there is no competency in  Parliament  or  aState Legislature to make a law which comes into clash	withPart 111 of the Constitution after the coming into force  ofthe Constitution.  "The effect of the decision may- be stated thus: The  learnedjudges	did not finally decide the effect of Art.  13(2)  ofthe  Constitution on post-Constitution laws for	 the  simplereason	that  the impugned law was a  pre-Constitution	one.Art.  13(1)  was  held to be prospective  in  operation	 andtherefore did not affect the preexisting laws in respect  ofthings done prior to-the Constitution.	As regards the post-Constitution  period, Art. 13(1) nullified or  rendered	 allinconsistent  existing laws ineffectual, nugatory or  devoidof  any	 legal force or binding effect with respect  to	 theexercise of the fundamental rights.  So far as the past actswere concerned, the law existed, notwithstanding that it didnot  exist with respect to the future exercise of  the	saidrights.	 As regards the pre-Constitution laws,(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 613.30this  decision contains the seed of the doctrine of  eclipsedeveloped  by  my Lord the Chief Justice in  Bhikaji  NarainDhakras v. The State of Madhya Pradesh (1) where it was heldthat  as  the  pre-Constitution law  was  validly  made,  itexisted	  for  certain	purposes  even	during	 the   post-Constitution  period.  This principle has no application  topost-Constitution laws infringing the fundamental rights  asthey  would  be ab initio void in toto or to the  extent  oftheir contravention of the fundamental rights.The observations of the learned judges made in the  decisioncited above bring out the distinction between pre and  post-Constitution  laws which are repugnant to  the	Constitutionand the impact of Art. 13 on the said laws.In Behram Khurshed Pesikaka's Case(2), this Court consideredthe legal effect of the declaration made' in the case of TheState of Bombay - v. F. N. Balsara (3) that clause (b) of s.13 of the Bombay Prohibition Act (Bom.	XXV of 1949) is voidunder Art. 13(1) of the Constitution in so far as it affectsthe  consumption  or  use  of  liquid  medicinal  or  toiletpreparations  containing  alcohol and held that	 it  was  torender	part  of  s. 13(b) of  the  Bombay  Prohibition	 Actinoperative,   ineffective   and   ineffectual	 and	thusunenforceable.	 Bhagwati,  J., at page 620, cited  all	 therelevant passages from textbooks on Constitutional Law	and,presumably,  accepted  the  view laid down  therein  to	 theeffect	that an unconstitutional Act in legal  contemplationis  as though it had never been passed.	 Jagannadhadas,	 J.,at  page 629, noticed the distinction between the  scope  ofcls.  (1)  and (2) of Art. 13 of  the  Constitution.   Afterciting	a passage from " Willoughby on Constitution  of	 theUnited States ", the learned Judge observed :"  This	 and  other similar passages  from  other  treatises'relate,  however, to cases where the entire legislation  isunconstitutional  from the very commencement of the  Act,  asituation  which falls within the scope of article 13(2)  ofour  Constitution.  They do not directly cover	a  situationwhich falls within(1) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 589.      (2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 613.(3)[1951] S.C. R. 682.31article	 13(1)............... The- question is what  is	 theeffect	of  article 13(1) on a pre-existing  valid  statute,which  in  respect  of a  severable  part  thereof  violatesfundamental  rights.   Under article 13(1) such part  is,  "void   "   from	 the  date  of	the  commencement   of	 theConstitution,  while the other part continues to  be  valid.Two  views of the result brought about by this voidness	 arepossible,   viz.,  (1)	the  said  severable  part   becomesunenforceable, while it remains part of the Act, or (2)	 thesaid   part  goes  out	of  the	 Act  and  the	Act   standsappropriately  amended	pro tanto.  The first  is  the	viewwhich  appears to have been adopted by my  learned  brother,Justice	 -  Venkatarama	 Aiyar,	 on  the  basis	 of  certainAmerican decisions.  I feel inclined to agree with it.	Thisaspect, however, was not fully presented by either side	 andwas  only  suggested  from  the	 Bench	in  the	 course	  ofarguments.  We have not had the benefit of all the  relevantmaterial being placed before us by the learned advocates  oneither side.  The second view was the basis of the argumentsbefore	us.   It is, therefore, necessary and  desirable  todeal with this case on that assumption."This passage shows that his opinion-though a tentative	one-was  that the severable part became unenforceable  while  itremained  part	of the Act.  But the learned Judge  made  anincidental  observation	 that the American view	 applied  tocases  that  fall  within the scope of	Art.  13(2)  of	 theConstitution,	i.e.,  the  entire  legislation	  would	  beunconstitutional  from	the very commencement  of  the	Act.Venkatarama  Aiyar,  J., founded his decision on  a  broaderbasis.	At page 639, the learned Judge observed:"  Another point of distinction noticed by American  juristsbetween	 unconstitutionality  arising by reason of  lack  oflegislative competence and that arising by reason of a checkimposed	 on a competent Legislature may also  be  mentioned.While  a  statute  passed  by a	 Legislature  which  had  nocompetence  cannot  acquire validity  when  the	 Legislaturesubsequently acquires competence, a statute which was withinthe  competence	 of  the  Legislature at  the  time  of	 itsenactment but which infringes a, constitutional32prohibition could 'be enforced 'Proprio vigore when once theprohibition is removed."On  the	 basis of this distinction, the learned	 Judge	heldthat Art. 13(1) of the Constitution only placed a check	  ona  competent legislature and therefore the word " void "  inthat  article meant " relatively void ", i.e., the law	onlycondemned  the	Act as wrong to individuals and	 refused  toenforce it against them.  In support of the said  conclusionthe  learned Judge cited a passage from " Willoughby on	 theConstitution  of  the United States ". A comparison  of	 thepassage cited with that in the text book discloses that	 oneimportant  sentence  which makes all the difference  to	 thelegal position is omitted by mistake and that sentence is  "An after-acquired power cannot ex proprio vigore validate  astatute	 void  when enacted ". The second paragraph  in	 theextract on which the learned Judge placed reliance and	alsothe  decision  relied  upon,  by him  did  not	support	 hisconclusion.  As already stated, the decision and the passagedealt  not with a case where the State had no power to	makethe  law, but with a case where the law lay dormant  till  alaw of the Federal Congress removed the conflict between theState Law and the Federal Law.	That case may by analogy  beapplied to Art. 13(1) in respect of laws validly made beforethe  Constitution  but cannot be invoked in the	 case  of  astatute which was void when enacted.  By a subsequent order,this  Court  granted  the review and reopened  the  case  toenable the :Bench to obtain the opinion of a larger Bench onthe  Constitutional points raised in the judgment  deliveredby  the learned Judges.	 That matter came up before  a	Con-stitutional  Bench, and Mahajan, C. J., who was a  party  tothe decision in Keshavan Madhava Menon's Case (1)  explainedthe majority view therein on the meaning of the word "	void" in Art. 13(1) thus, at page 651:-" The majority however held that the word "void" in  article13(1), so far as existing laws Were concerned, could not  beheld to obliterate them from the statute book, and could notmake  such  laws  void altogether, because  in	its  opinionarticle 13 had not been given any(1)  [1951] S.C. R. 228.33retrospective effect.  The majority however held that  afterthe  coming  into force of the Constitution  the  effect  ofarticle	 13(1) on such repugnant laws was that it  nullifiedthem,  and made them ineffectual and nugatory and devoid  ofany  legal force or binding effect.  It was further  pointedout in one of the judgments representing the majority  view,that the American rule that if a statute is repugnant to theConstitution  the  statute is void from its  birth,  has  noapplication  to	 cases concerning  obligations	incurred  orrights	accrued in accordance with an existing law that	 wasconstitutional	in  its inception, but that if any  law	 wasmade  after the 26th January, 1950, which was  repugnant  tothe  Constitution,  then  the same rule	 shall	have  to  befollowed  in  India  as followed  in  America.	 The  resulttherefore  of  this pronouncement is that the  part  of	 thesection of an existing law which is unconstitutional is	 notlaw,  and is null and void.  For determining the rights	 andobligations  of	 citizens the part declared void  should  benotionally taken to be obliterated from the section for	 allintents	 and purposes, though it may remain- written on	 thestatute	 book and be a good law when a question	 arises	 fordetermination  of rights and obligations incurred  prior  to26th January, 1950, and also for the determination of rightsof persons who have not been given fundamental rights by theConstitution.	Thus, in this situation, there is  no  scopefor  introducing  terms like " relatively void "  coined  byAmerican  Judges in construing a Constitution which  is	 notdrawn  up in similar language and the implications of  whichare not quite familiar in this country." The learned  Judge,as  we	have already pointed out, rejected  the	 distinctionmade  by Venkatarama Aiyar, J., between lack of	 legislativepower and the abridgment of the fundamental rights.   Thoughthat  question	did not directly arise,	 the  learned  Judgeexpressed  his view on the scope of Art. 13(2) at  page	 653thus:"  The authority thus conferred by Articles 245 and  246  tomake  laws  subjectwise	 in the	 different  Legislatures  isqualified by the declaration made in534article 13(2).	That power can only be exercised subject  tothe   prohibition  contained  in  article  13(2).   On	 theconstruction  of  article 13(2) there was no  divergence  ofopinion	 between the majority and the minority	 in  KeshavaMadhava	 Menon v. The State of Bombay (supra).	It was	onlyon  the	 construction of article 13(1) that  the  differencearose  because	it  was felt that  that	 article  could	 notretrospectively	  invalidate  laws  which  when	 made	wereconstitutional according to the Constitution then in force."Das, J., as he then was, in his dissenting judgment differedfrom  the  majority on other points but does not  appear  tohave differed from the aforesaid views expressed by Mahajan,C. J., as regards the scope of Keshava Madhava Menon's	Caseon  the	 meaning of the word " void " in Art.  13(1).	Thisjudgment  is  therefore	 an  authority	on  two	 points	 andcontains  a weighty observation on the third : (i) when	 thelaw-making  power  of  a  State	 is  restricted	 by  writtenfundamental law, then any law opposed to the fundamental lawis  in	excess of the legislative authority and	 is  thus  anullity;  (ii) even in the case of a statute to	 which	Art.13(1) applies, though the law is on the statute book and  bea  good	 law, when a question arises  for  determination  ofrights	and obligations incurred prior to January 26,  1950,the  part  declared void should be nationally  taken  to  beobliterated from the section for all intents and purposes  ;and (iii) on the construction of Art. 13(2), the law made incontravention	of  that  clause  is  a	 nullity  from	 itsinception.The next case is a direct one on the point and that is Sag-hir  Ahmad v. The State. of U. P. (1).	There, the  U.P.RoadTransport Act (11 of 1951) was passed enabling the State  torun  stage  carriage  service on a route or  routes  to	 theexclusion  of others.  Under that Act, the State  Governmentmade  a declaration extending the Act to a  particular	areaand issued a notification setting out what purported to be ascheme	for the operation of the stage carriage	 service  oncertain	 routes.  At the time the said Act was	passed,	 theState had no such power to deprive a citizen of his(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 707.35right to carry on his transport service.  But after the Act,Art.   19(1)   was  amended  by	 the   Constitution   (FirstAmendment)Act,	1951,  enabling the State to  carry  on	 anytrade or business either by itself or through,	corporationsowned  or  controlled  by the State  to	 the.  exclusion  ofprivate	 citizens wholly or in part.  One of  the  questionsraised	was whether the amendment of the Constitution  couldbe  invoked to validate the earlier legislation.  The  Courtheld  that  the	 Act when passed  was  unconstitutional	 andtherefore  it was still-born and could not be  vitalised  bythe  subsequent amendment of the Constitution  removing	 theconstitutional	objections but must be re-enacted.  At	page728,  Mukherjea,  J.,  as he then  was,	 who  delivered	 thejudgment  of the Court, has given the reasons for  the	saidview :-"   As	 Professor  Cooley  has	 stated	 in  his   work	  onConstitutional	Limitations  (Vol. 1, page 304	note.)	"  astatute	 void for unconstitutionality is dead and cannot  bevitalised  by  a subsequent amendment  of  the	Constitutionremoving the constitutional objection but must be re-enacted".  We	think that this is sound law and our  conclusion  isthat   the  legislation	 in  question  which  violates	 thefundamental right of the appellants under article 19(1)	 (g)of  the	 Constitution and is not shown to  be  protected  byclause	(6) of the article, as it stood at the time  of	 theenactment,  must be held to be void under article  13(2)  ofthe Constitution."This  is  a direct authority on the point,  without  a	dis-senting voice, and we are bound by it.The decision given in Bhikaji Narain's Case, (1) is stronglyrelied	upon by the learned Advocate General in	 support  ofhis  contention.   Shortly stated, the facts  in  that	casewere:  Before  the  Constitution, the C. P.  &	Berar  MotorVehicles (Amendment) Act, 1947 (C.  P. III of 1948)  amendedthe  Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (Central Act IV of  1939)	 andconferred  extensive  powers on	 the  Provincial  Governmentincluding  the	power  to create a  monopoly  of  the  motortransport  business  in its favour to the exclusion  of	 allmotor transport operators.  It was contended by the affectedparties that by reason of Art. 13(1) of the Constitution,(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 589.36the Act became void.  On behalf of the State, it was  arguedthat  the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951, and	 theConstitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955, had the effect ofremoving the inconsistency and the Amendment Act III of 1948became operative again.	 This Court unanimously accepted thecontention  of the State.  This decision is one given  on  aconstruction of Art. 13(1) of the Constitution and it is  noauthority on the construction and scope of Art. 13(2) of theConstitution.	The reason for the decision is found in	 thefollowing passages in the judgment, at page 598:" ..................... on and after the commencement of theConstitution  the existing law, as a result of its  becominginconsistent  with the provisions of article  19(1)(g)	readwith clause (6) as it then stood, could not be permitted  tostand in the way of the exercise of that fundamental  right.Article	 13(1) by reason of its language cannot be  read  ashaving obliterated the entire operation of the	inconsistentlaw  or	 having	 wiped it out altogether  from	the  statutebook ............... In short, article 13(1) had the  effectof nullifying or rendering the existing law which had becomeinconsistent with article 19(1) (g) read with clause (6)  asit then stood ineffectual, nugatory and devoid of any  legalforce or binding effect only with respect to the exercise ofthe  fundamental  right	 on  and  after	 the  date  of	 thecommencement  of the Constitution.  Therefore,	between	 the26th  January, 1950, and 18th June, 1951, the  impugned	 Actcould  not  stand  in  the  way	 of  the  exercise  of	 thefundamental right of a citizen under Article 19(1)(g).	 Thetrue  position is that the impugned law became, as it  were,eclipsed,  for the time being, by the fundamental right	 TheAmerican  authorities refer only to  post-Constitution	lawswhich	were  inconsistent  with  the  provisions   of	 theConstitution.  Such laws never came to life but were  still-born  as it were Such laws were not dead for  all  purposes.They existed for the purposes of pre-Constitution rights andliabilities  and  they remained operative,  even  after	 theConstitution, as against non-citizens.	It is only as37against	 the  citizens that they remained in  a	 dormant  ormoribund condition."The  aforesaid passages are only the restatement of the	 lawas   enunciated	 in  Keshavan  Madhava	Menon's	 a   Case(1)reaffirmed  in Pesikaka's Case (2) and an extension  of	 thesame to meet a different situation.  A pre-Constitution law,stating	 in  the words of Das, J., as he  then	was,  existsnotwithstanding	 that it does not exist with respect to	 thefuture	exercise of the fundamental rights.  That  principlehas been extended in this decision, by invoking the doctrineof  eclipse.   As  the law existed on the  statute  book  tosupport pre-Constitution acts, the Court held that the	saidlaw  was eclipsed for the time being by one or other of	 thefundamental  rights and when the shadow was removed  by	 theamendment of the Constitution, the impugned Act became	freefrom   all  blemish  or	 infirmity.   The  Legislature	 wascompetent to make the law with which Pesikaka's Case (2) wasconcerned  at  the time it was made.  It was not a  case  ofwant  of legislative power at the time the Act	was  passed,but  one  where	 in  the case of  a  valid  law	 superveningcircumstances cast a cloud.  To the other class of cases  towhich  Art.  13 (2) will apply, the views expressed  by	 theAmerican  authorities,	by Mahajan, J., as he then  was,  inPesikaka's  Case, and by Mukherjea, J., as he then  was,  inSaghir	Ahmad's Case (3 ) directly apply.  To the  facts  inBhikaji	 Narain's  Case,  (4) the  principle  laid  down  inKeshavan Madhava Menon's Case is attracted.  But it is	saidthat the observations of the learned Judges are wide  enoughto  cover  the	case  falling  under  Art.  13	(2)  of	 theConstitution  and  further that a logical extension  of	 theprinciple laid down would take in also a case falling  underArt.  13(2).   The  first  contention  is  based  upon	 thefollowing passage:-But apart from this distinction between pre-Constitution andpost-Constitution  laws, on which however we need  not	restour   decision,	 it  must  be  held  that   these   Americanauthorities  could have no application to our  Constitution.All laws existing or future(1)  [1951] S.C.R. 228.(2)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 613,(3)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 707.(4)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 589.38which  are inconsistent with the provisions of Part  III  ofour  Constitution, are by express provisions of	 article  13rendered  void	to the extent of such  inconsistency.	Suchlaws were not dead for all purposes.  They  existed for	 thepurposes of pre-Constitution rights and liabilities and theyremained operative, even after the Constitution, as  againstnon-citizens.  It is only as against the citizens that	theyremained in a dormant or moribund condition."The  first part of the said observation states nothing	morethan  the plain import of the provisions of Art.  13(1)	 and(2),  namely,  that  they render laws void  only  I  to	 theextent'	 of  such  inconsistency.  The second  part  of	 theobservation directly applies only to a case covered by	Art.13(1),	for the learned Judges say that the laws  exist	 forthe purposes of pre-Constitution rights and liabilities	 andthey remain operative even after the Constitution as againstnon-citizens.	The  said observation  could  not  obviouslyapply  to post-Constitution laws.  Even so, it is said	thatby a parity of reasoning the post-Constitution laws are alsovoid to the extent of their repugnancy and therefore the lawin respect of non-citizens will be oil the statute book	 andby  the	 application of the doctrine of	 eclipse,  the	sameresult	should	flow  in  its  case  also.   There  is	someplausibility  in  this argument, but it	 ignores  one  vitalprinciple,  viz.,  the	existence or  the  non-existence  oflegislative power or competency at the time the law is	madegoverns	 the situation.	 There is no scope for applying	 thedoctrine  of  eclipse  to a case where the law	is  void  abinitio	in  whole or in part.  That apart,  in	the  presentcase-we	 do  not  base	our  decision  on  that-Art.   31(1)infringed by the Act, applies to all persons irrespective ofwhether	 they are citizens or non-citizens,  and.  thereforethe   entire  law  was	void  ab  initio.   That   judgment,therefore, does not support the respondent as it has bearingonly on the construction of Art. 13(1) of the Constitution.In  Ram	 Chandra Palai v. State of Orissa  (1),	 this  Courtfollowed  the decision in Bhikaji Narain's Case (2)  in	 thecase of a pre-Constitution Act.	 In Pannalal(1) [1956] S.C.R. 28.(2) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 589.39Binjraj	 v. Union of India (1), Bhagwati, J.,  quoted,	withapproval the extract from Keshavan Madhava Menon's Case (2),wherein	 it was held that Art. 13(1) has only the effect  ofnullifying  or	rendering  all	inconsistent  existing	lawsineffectual  or	 nugatory or devoid of any  legal  force  orbinding	 effect only with respect to the fundamental  rightson or after the commencement of the Constitution.The  learned Advocate General relied upon certain  decisionsin support of his contention that the word " void " in Arts.13(1)  and  13	(2) means only	"  unenforceable  "  againstpersons	 claiming fundamental rights, and the law  continuesto  be in the statute book irrespective of the fact that  itwas  made  in infringement of the fundamental  rights.	 Theobservations of Mukherjea, J., as he then was, in  ChiranjitLal  Chowdhuri v. The Union of India (3) are relied  on	 andthey are:"  Article  32,	 as its provisions  show,  is  not  directlyconcerned with the determination of constitutional  validityof  particular legislative enactments.	What it aims  at  isthe  enforcing	of  fundamental	 rights	 guaranteed  by	 theConstitution,  no  matter  whether the	necessity  for	suchenforcement  arises out of an action of the executive or  ofthe legislature....................... The rights that couldbe  enforced under article 32 must ordinarily be the  rightsof  the	 petitioner himself who complains of  infraction  ofsuch rights and approaches the court for relief."He  also  relies upon the, decision of Das, J., as  he	thenwas,   in  The,	 State	of  Madras  v.	Srimathi   ChamPakamDorairajan  (4), wherein the learned Judge states  thus,  atpage 531 :"  The	directive principles of the State Policy,  which  byarticle	 37  are expressly made unenforceable  by  a  Court,cannot	override  the provisions found in  Part	 III  which,notwithstanding	  other	 provisions,  are   expressly	madeenforceable by appropriate Writs, Orders or directions underarticle 32."Basing his argument on the aforesaid two observations,(1)  [1957] S.C.R. 233.(2) [1951] S C.R. 228.(3)  [1950] S.C.R. 869, 899.(4) [1951] S.C.R. 525,40it  is	contended that in the case 'of	both  the  directiveprinciples and the fundamental rights, it must be held	thatthe infringement of either does not invalidate the  law, butonly makes the law unenforceable.  This argument, if we	 maysay so, mixes up the Constitutional invalidity of a  statutewith the procedure to be followed  to	   enforce	 thefundamental rights of an individual.	The   Constitutionalvalidity of a statute depends upon    the    existence	  oflegislative power in the State and the right of a person  toapproach  the Supreme Court depends upon his possessing	 thefundamental right, i.e., he cannot apply for the enforcementof  his right unless it is infringed by any law.  The  casesalready	 considered  supra  clearly establish  that  a	law,whether pre-Constitution or post-Constitution, would be voidand  nugatory  in  so far as it	 infringed  the	 fundamentalrights.	 We do not see any relevancy in the reference to thedirective principles; for, the legislative power of a  Stateis only guided by the directive principles of State  Policy.The  directions,  even	if disobeyed by	 the  State,  cannotaffect the legislative power of the State, as they are	onlydirectory  in  scope  and  operation.	The  result  of	 theaforesaid  discussion  may be summarized  in  the  followingpropositions:  (i)  whether the	 Constitution  affirmativelyconfers	 power on the legislature to make laws	subject-wiseor  negatively prohibits it from infringing any	 fundamentalright,	 they  represent  only	two  aspects  of   want	  oflegislative  power; (ii) the Constitution in  express  termsmakes  the power of a legislature to make laws in regard  tothe entries in the Lists of the Seventh Schedule subject  tothe other provisions of the Constitution and thereby circum-cribes	or  reduces the said power by the  limitations	laiddown in Part III of the Constitution; (iii) it follows	fromthe premises that a law made in derogation or in -excess  ofthat  power would be ab initio void wholly or to the  extentof  the	 contravention	as the case may be ;  and  (iv)	 thedoctrine of eclipse can be invoked only in the case of a lawvalid  when made, but a shadow is cast on it by	 superveningconstitutional	  inconsistency	  or,supervening    existingstatutory41inconsistency; when the shadow is removed, the impugned	 Actis  freed  from	 all blemish  or  infirmity.   Applying	 theaforesaid  principles to the present case, we hold that	 thevalidity of the Act could not be tested on the basis of	 theConstitution  (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955, but only on	 theterms of the relevant Articles as they existed prior to	 theAmendment.We shall now proceed to consider the first contention of Mr.Nambiar.   He contends that the Motor  Vehicles	 (Amendment)Act (100 of 1956) passed by Parliament was wholly  repugnantto  the	 provisions of the U. P. Act and therefore  the	 lawbecame	void  under  the provisions of Art.  254(1)  of	 theConstitution, with the result that at the present time thereis  no	valid  law whereunder the  State  can  prohibit	 theappellants  exercising	their fundamental  right  under	 theConstitution,  namely,	carrying on the	 business  of  motortransport.Mr. Naunit Lal bases his case on the proviso to Art.  254(2)of  the	 Constitution rather than on cl.  (1)  thereof.	  Hecontends  that by reason of the Amending Act, the U. P.	 Actwas  repealed  in  toto; and because  of  Section  68B,	 theoperation  of  the  provisions of the  General	Clauses	 Actsaving things done under the repealed Act was excluded.	 Thelearned Advocate General attempted to meet the double attackby  pressing on us to hold that there was no  repugnancy  atall between the provisions of the Central Act and the U.  P.Act and therefore the U. P. Act had neither become void	 norwas  repealed by necessary implication by the  Central	Act.We  shall  now	examine the provisions of  Art.	 254(1)	 and254(2).Article 254:"(1) If any provisions of a law made by the Legislature of aState  is  repugnant  to  any provision of  a  law  made  byParliament which Parliament is competent to enact, or to anyprovision  of  an existing law with respect to	one  of	 thematters enumerated in the Concurrent List, then, subject  tothe  provisions of clause (2), the law made  by	 Parliament,whether	 passed	 before	 or  after  the	 law  made  by	 theLegislature of642such State, or, as the case may be, the existing law,  shallprevail	 and  the law made by the Legislature of  the  Stateshall, to the extent of the repugnancy, be void.(2)  Where  a law made by the Legislature of  a	 State	withrespect	 to one of the matters enumerated in the  ConcurrentList  contains any provision repugnant to the provisions  ofan  earlier law made by Parliament or an existing  law	withrespect	 to  that  matter,  then, the law  so  made  by	 theLegislature of such State shall, if it has been reserved forthe consideration of the President and has received his	 as-sent, prevail, in that State.Provided   that	 nothing  in  this  clause   shall   preventParliament from enacting at any time any law with respect tothe same matter including a law adding to, amending, varyingor  repealing  the  law so made by the	Legislature  of	 theState."Article	 254(1) lays down a general rule.  Clause (2) is  anexception  to  that Article and the  proviso  qualifies	 theexception.   If there is repugnancy between the law made  bythe State and that made by Parliament with respect to one ofthe matters enumerated in the Concurrent List, the law	madeby Parliament shall prevail to the extent of the  repugnancyand  the law made by the State shall, to the extent of	suchrepugnancy, be void.  Under cl. (2), if the Legislature of aState makes a provision repugnant to the provisions. of	 thelaw made by Parliament, it would prevail if the	 legislationof the State received the assent of the President.  Even  insuch a case, Parliament may subsequently either amend,	varyor  repeal the law made by the Legislature of a	 State.	  Inthe  present case, the Uttar Pradesh  Legislative  Assembly,after  obtaining  the assent of the President on  April	 23,1955, passed the U. P. Act.  Parliament subsequently  passedthe   Motor   Vehicles	(Amendment)  Act  (100	 of   1956).Therefore,  both the clauses of Art. 254 would apply to	 thesituation.  The first question is whether the provisions  ofthe Union law, i.e., the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act (100of  1956), are repugnant to the provisions of the U. P.	 Actand if so to43what extent.  Before we proceed to examine the provisions ofthe  two  Acts,	 it  may be convenient	to  notice  the	 lawpertaining to the rule of repugnancy.Nicholas  in his Australian Constitution, 2nd Edition,	page303, refers to three tests of inconsistency or repugnancy :-"(1)   There may be inconsistency in the actual terms of thecompeting statutes;(2)  Though there may be no direct conflict, a State law maybe inoperative because the Commonwealth law, or the award ofthe  Commonwealth  Court  is  intended	to  be	a   completeexhaustive code; and(3) Even in the absence of intention, a	 conflict may  arisewhen  both  State and Commonwealth seek	 to  exercise  theirpowers over the same subject matter."This Court in Ch.  Tika Ramji v. The State of Uttar  Pradesh(1) accepted the said three rules, among others,  as  usefulguides to test the question of repugnancy.   In	   ZaverbhaiAmaidas v. The State of Bombay	   (2), this Court laid downa similar test.	 At page 807, it is stated:"  The	principle  embodied in section	107(2)	and  Article254(2)	is that when there is legislation covering the	sameground both by the centre and by the Province, both of	thembeing  competent  to enact the same, the law of	 the  Centreshould prevail over that of the State."-Repugnancy  between two statutes may thus be ascertained  onthe basis of the following three principles:(1)  Whether  there  is	 direct	 conflict  between  the	 twoprovisions ;(2)  Whether  Parliament intended to lay down an  exhaustivecode  in respect of the subject matter replacing the Act  ofthe State Legislature; and(3) Whether the law made by Parliament and the	  law	madeby the State Legislature occupy the same field.We shall now examine the provisions of both the Acts in somedetail	in order to ascertain the extent of  the  repugnancybetween them.  The Scheme of(1) [1956] S.C.R. 393.(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 799.44the U. P. Act may be summarized thus: Under the U. P. Act  "State Road Transport Service " is defined to mean  transportservice	 by  a	public service vehicle owned  by  the  StateGovernment.  Under s. 3:"  Where the State Government is of the opinion that  it  isnecessary  in  the interests of the general public  and	 forsubserving   the  common  good,	 or  for   maintaining	 anddeveloping efficient road transport system so to direct,  itmay,  by notification in the official Gazette  declare	thatthe  road transport services in general, or  any  particularclass of such service on any route or portion thereof as maybe  specified, shall be run and operated exclusively by	 theState  Government, or by he state Government in	 conjunctionwith  railways	or be run and operated partly by  the  StateGovernment and partly by others under and in accordance withthe provisions of the Act".After  the publication of the notification under s.  3,	 theState Government or, if the State Government so directs, theTransport  Commissioner publishes in such manner as  may  bespecified  a scheme as to the State Road  Transport  Serviceproviding for all or any of the matters enumerated in cl (2)of s. 4. Clause (2), of s. 4 directs that, among others, thescheme	should	'provide the particulars of  the  routes  orportions thereof over which and the date on which -the StateTransport  Service  will commence to operate, the  roads  inregard	to which private persons may be allowed	 to  operateupon,  the  routes  that  will	be  'served  by	 the   StateGovernment in conjunction with railways , the curtailment ofthe  routes covered by the existing -permits or transfer  ofthe permits to other route or routes.  Section 5 enjoins theTransport  Commissioner to give notice to the  permit-holderrequiring  him	to lodge a statement in writing	 whether  heagrees to the transfer of the permit and in cl. (2) thereof,it is prescribed that in case he accepts the transfer, he isnit  entitled to any compensation, but if he does not  agreeto the transfer,his permit will be cancelled subject to	 hisright  to  get compensation under the Act.  Under s.  6	 anyperson whose interests are affected may within 30 days	fromthe publication of the scheme, file objections45on  it before the Transport 'Commissioner who shall  forwardthem to the Board constituted under s. 7, consisting of	 theCommissioner  of a Division, Secretary to Government in	 theTransport  Department and the Transport	 Commissioner.	 TheBoard shall consider the objections, if any, forwarded unders.  6  and may either confirm, modify or alter	the  scheme.The  Scheme so confirmed or modified or altered under  s.  7shall  be  published in the Official  Gazette.	 Any  schemepublished  under  s.  8	 may at any  time  be  cancelled  ormodified  or  altered by the State Government.	 Section  10gives  the  consequences  of the  publication  under  s.  8.Section 11 provides compensation for premature	cancellationof  permits  or curtailment of route or routes,	 as  may  bedetermined  in accordance with the principles  specified  inSchedule  1.  In  Schedule 1,  compensation  is	 payable  asfollows:" (1) For every complete month or Rupees one part of a monthexceeding  fifteen days of hundred. the unexpired period  ofthe permit.(2) For part of a month not exceed-	   Rupeesing fifteen days of the unexpired	   fifty.period of a permit.Provided always that the amount of compensation shall in  nocase be less than rupees two hundred."Section 12 authorises the State Government, in a case  wherethe permit has been cancelled, to purchase the motor vehiclecovered	 by it if the holder of the permit offers  to  sell,upon terms and conditions laid down in Schedule 11  providedthe vehicle is of the type of manufacture and model notifiedby  the	 State	Government and provided	 secondly  that	 thevehicle	 is mechanically in a sound condition  or  otherwisedeclared  fit by the Transport Commissioner or his  nominee.Sections  13  to 18 provide for a State	 Machinery  for	 thedevelopment of motor transport industry.  Sections 19 to  22are  provisions which are consequential in nature.   Shortlystated, under the U. P. Act the State Government initiate  ascheme	providing  for	the  nationalization  of  the	roadtransport  in whole or in part; the objections filed by	 thepersons affected by the scheme are heard by a46Board  of three officers appointed by the State	 Government;the Board after hearing- the objections may confirm,  modifyor  alter  the	scheme;	 the  scheme  so  confirmed  may  becancelled,  modified or altered by ,the State Government  byfollowing  the	same  procedure	 adopted  for  framing	 theoriginal scheme; and the holders of permits cancelled may begiven new' permits if they choose to accept and if not	theywill be paid such compensation as prescribed under the	Act.Under  the Amendment Act 100 of 1956, whereby a new  chapterwas  inserted  in  the	Motor  Vehicles	 Act  of  1939,	 theprocedure  prescribed is different.  Under s. 68-A  of	thatAct,  'State Transport Undertaking' is defined to  mean	 anyundertaking  providing	road transport service,	 where	suchundertaking is carried on by,-(i) the Central Government  ora  State  Government; (ii) any	Road  Transport	 Corporationestablished  under  s. 3 of the Road  Transport	 CorporationAct,  1950; (iii) the Delhi Transport Authority	 establishedunder s. 3 of the Delhi Road Transport Authority Act,  1950;and  (iv)  any municipality or any  corporation	 or  companyowned or controlled by the State Government.  Under s.	68C,the State Transport Undertaking initiates a scheme if it  isof  opinion that for the purpose of providing an  efficient,adequate, economical and properly coordinated road transportservice,  it is necessary in the public interest  that	roadtransport  service  in general, or any particular  class  ofsuch  service  in relation to any area or route	 or  portionthereof	 should be run and operated by the  State  TransportUndertaking,  whether to the exclusion complete or  partial,of  other persons or otherwise.	 Section 68D says  that	 anyperson	affected  by the Scheme may file objections  to	 thesaid   Scheme  before  the  State  Government;	 the   StateGovernment  may, after considering the objections and  aftergiving	 an   opportunity   to	the   objectors	  or   theirrepresentatives	  and  the  representatives  of	 the   StateTransport Undertaking to be heard in the matter, approve  ormodify the Scheme.  Any Scheme published may at any time  becancelled  or  modified by the State  Transport	 Undertakingfollowing  the	same procedure; for the	 purpose  of  givingeffect47to the Scheme, the Regional Transport Authority, inter alia,may  cancel the existing permits or modify the terms of	 theexisting permits.  Section 68G lays down the principles	 andmethod of determination of compensation.  Under that sectioncompensation  is, payable for every completed month or	partof a month exceeding fifteen days of the unexpired period ofthe permits at Rs. 200 and for part of a month not exceedingfifteen	 days of the unexpired period of the permit  at	 Rs.100.  Under the Amending Act, the gist of the provisions  isthat  the  Scheme  is  initiated  by  the  State   TransportUndertaking  carried  on  by any of  the  four	institutionsmentioned  in  s.  68A,	 including  the	 State	 Government;objections are filed by the affected parties to the  Scheme,the  affected parties and the Undertaking are heard  by	 theState  Government,  which,  after  hearing  the	 objections,approves or modifies the Scheme.  There is no provision	 fortransfer  of  permits  to  some other  routes,	or  for	 thepurchase of the buses by the State Government.	Compensationpayable	 is  twice  that fixed under the  U.  P.  Act.	 Oneimportant  thing  to  be noticed is that the U.	 P.  Act  isprospective,  i. e., comes into force only from the date  ofthe passing of the Amending Act and the procedure prescribedapplies	 only  to  schemes  that  are  initiated  under	 theprovisions of the U. P. Act.A  comparison of the aforesaid provisions of the U.  P.	 Actand  the  Amending  Act indicates that	both  the  Acts	 areintended  to operate, in respect of the same subject  matterin the same field.  The unamended Motor Vehicles Act of 1939did  not  make	any provision  for  the	 nationalization  oftransport services, but the States introduced amendments  toimplement  the scheme of nationalization of road  transport.Presumably,  Parliament with a view to introduce  a  uniformlaw  throughout	 the  country  avoiding	 defects  found	  inpractice  passed the Amending Act inserting Chapter IV-A  inthe  Motor  Vehicles  Act,  1939.   This  object  would	  befrustrated  if the argument that both the U. P. Act and	 theAmending  Act  should co-exist in respect of schemes  to  beframed	after  the Amending Act, is accepted.	Further	 theauthority to initiate48the  scheme, the manner of doing it, the authority  to	hearthe   objections,  the	principles  regarding	payment	  ofcompensation under the two Acts differ in import ant detailsfrom  one  another.  While in the U. P. Act  the  scheme  isinitiated by the State Government, in the Amendment Act,  itis  proposed by the State Transport Undertaking.   The	factthat a particular undertaking may be carried on by the StateGovernment also cannot be a reason to equate the undertakingwith the State Government; for under s. 68A the	 undertakingmay  be carried on not only by the State Government  but  byfive other different institutions.  The undertaking is	madea statutory authority under the Amending Act with a right toinitiate the scheme and to be heard by the State  Governmentin regard to objections filed by the persons affected by thescheme.	  While	 in  the  U.  P.  Act  a  Board	 hears	 theobjections,  under  the Amending Act  the  State  Governmentdecides	 the  disputes.	 The provisions of the	scheme,	 theprinciples  of	compensation and the manner of	its  paymentalso differ in the two Acts.  It is therefore manifest	thatthe  Amending Act occupies the same field in respect of	 theschemes	 initiated after the Amending Act and  therefore  tothat  extent  the  State Act must yield	 its  place  to	 theCentral	 Act.	But the same cannot be said of	the  schemesframed under the U. P. Act before the Amending Act came intoforce.	 Under	Art. 254(1) " the law  made  by	 Parliament,whether	 passed	 before	 or  after  the	 law  made  by	 theLegislature of such State............ shall prevail and	 thelaw  made  by  the legislature of the State  shall,  to	 theextent of the repugnancy, be void."Mr. Nambiar contends that, as the U. P. Act and the AmendingAct  operate  in  the  same field in  respect  of  the	samesubject-matter, i. e., the nationalization of bus transport,the  U.	 P.  Act  becomes void	under  Art.  254(1)  of	 theConstitution.  This argument ignores the crucial words "  tothe extent of the repugnancy " in the said clause.  What  isvoid  is  not the entire Act but only to the extent  of	 itsrepugnancy with the law made by Parliament.  The identity ofthe  field  may	 relate to the pith  and  substance  of	 thesubject-matter49and also the period of its. operation.	When both  coincide,the  repugnancy is complete and the whole of the  State	 Actbecomes	 void.	 The  operation	 of the	 Union	Law  may  beentirely  prospective leaving the State Law to be  effectivein  regard  to thing already, done.  Sections 68C,  68D	 and68E,  inserted by the Amending Act, clearly show that  thosesections  are concerned only with a scheme  initiated  afterthe  Amending  Act came into force.  None of  the  sections,either expressly or by necessary implication, indicates thatthe  schemes already finalised should be reopened and  freshschemes	 be  framed  pursuant to  the  procedure  prescribedthereunder.  Therefore, under Art. 254(1), the law under theU. P. Act subsists to support the schemes framed  thereunderand it becomes void only in respect of schemes framed  underthe Central Act.  A similar question arose in the context ofthe  application  of Art. 13(1) to  a  pre-Constitution	 lawwhich  infringed  the  fundamental rights  given  under	 theConstitution.In Keshavan Madhava Menon's Case (1), which we have referredto  in a different context the question was  whether  IndianPress  (Emergency Powers) Act, 1931, was void as  infringingthe  provisions of Art. 13(1) of the Constitution;, and	 theCourt held that the said Act was valid and would continue tobe  in	force to sustain a prosecution launched for  an	 actdone be fore the Constitution.	In the words of Das, J.,  ashe then was:"  Such	 laws  exist  for  all	past  transactions  and	 forenforcing all rights and liabilities accrued before the dateof the Constitution." (p. 234)."  So  far as the past acts are concerned  the	law  exists,notwithstanding	 that it does not exist with respect to	 thefuture exercise of fundamental rights.", (pp. 235-236).Article	 13(1), so far as it is relevant to the present	 in-quiry, is pari materia with the provisions of Art. 254(1) ofthe  Constitution.   While -under Art. 13(1)  all  the	pre-Constitution laws, to the extent of their inconsistency withthe provisions of Part III, are void, under(1)  [1951] S.C.R. 228.750Art. 254(1) the State Law to the extent of its repugnancy tothe law made by,Parliament is void.  If the pre-Constitutionlaw exists for the post-Constitution period for all the pasttransactions, by the same parity of reasoning, the State lawsubsists after the making of the law by Parliament, for pasttransactions.	In this view, both the laws can co-exist  tooperate during different periods.The  same decision also affords a solution to  the  questionmooted,	 namely,  whether  if  the  law	 was  void  all	 thecompleted  transactions	 fall with it.	Mahajan, J.,  as  hethen  was,  draws  a distinction between a void	 Act  and  arepealed  Act vis-a-vis their impact on	 past  transactions.At page 251, the learned Judge says:The expression is void " has no larger effect on the statuteso  declared  than  the word " repeal ".  The  expression  "repeal " according to common law rule obliterates a  statutecompletely as if it had never been passed and thus  operatesretrospectively	 on  past transactions in the absence  of  asaving	clause or in the absence of provisions such  as	 arecontained  in  the  Interpretation Act-,  1889,	 or  in	 theGeneral	 Clauses Act, 1897, while a provision in  a  statutethat  with  effect from a particular date  an  existing	 lawwould  be void to the extent of the repugnancy has  no	suchretrospective  operation  and  cannot  affect  pending	pro-secutions  or  actions taken under such laws.  There  is  insuch a situation no necessity of introducing a saving clauseand  it does not need the aid of a legislative provision  ofthe  nature  contained	in the	Interpretation	Act  or	 theGeneral Clauses Act.  To hold that a prospective declarationthat  a statute is void affects pending oases is to give  itindirectly  retrospective  operation  and  that	 result	  isrepugnant to the clear phraseology employed, in the  variousarticles in Part III of the Constitution."The said observation directly applies to a situation createdby  Art.254(1). As the U. P. Act was void from the  date  ofthe  Amending Act, actions taken before that date cannot  beaffected.   In	whichever  way	it  is	looked	at,  we	 aresatisfied  that	 in  the present case,	the  scheme  alreadyframed subsists and the51State  law  exists to sustain it even after  the  Parliamentmade the law.  In this view we reject the contention of	 Mr.Nambiar based on Art 254(1)of the Constitution.The alternative argument advanced by Mr. Naunit Lal may	 nowbe considered.	It is not disputed that under the proviso toArt.  254(2), the Parliament can repeal the law made by	 theLegislature  of a State and that Parliament can	 repeal	 therepugnant  State  law  whether	directly  or  by   necessaryimplication.   Assuming that Parliament in the present	caseby enacting the Amending Act repugnant to the State law withrespect to the same subject-matter i. e., nationalization ofroad  transport, impliedly repealed the State law, would  ithave  the  effect of effacing the scheme already made  ?  Ifthere  was a repeal, the provisions of s. 6 of	the  GeneralClauses	 Act of 1897 are directly attracted.   The  relevantpart of s. 6 of the General Clauses Act reads:"  Where  this Act, or any Central Act	or  Regulation	madeafter  the commencement of this Act, repeals  any  enactmenthitherto  made	or  hereafter to be  made,  then,  unless  adifferent intention appears, the repeal shall not-(a) revive anything not in force or existing at the time  atwhich the repeal takes effect; or(b)  affect  the  previous  operation of  any  enactment  sorepealed or anything duly done or suffered thereunder."The  express words used in clause (b)certainly take  in	 thescheme framed under the -repealed Act.	It was a thing	dulydone  under  the  repealed  Act.  But  it  is  said  that  acomparison  of	the provisions of s. 6 with those of  s.  24would indicate that anything duly done excludes the  scheme.Section	 24 deals with the continuation of orders,  schemes,rules, forms or bye-laws. made or issued under the  repealedAct.   But  that  section applies only to the  repeal  of  aCentral	 Act but not a State Act.  But the exclusion of	 thescheme	is  sought  to	be supported on	 the  basis  of	 theargument that in the case of a repeal of a Central Act, boththe sections apply and, in that context, a reasonable52interpretation	would  be to exclude  what  is	specificallyprovided  for from the general words used in s. 6.  Whateverjustification  there may be in that context, there  is	nonewhen  we  are concerned with the repeal of a  State  Act  towhich  s. 24 does not apply.  In that situation, we have  tolook to the plain words of s. 6 and ascertain whether  thosewords  are comprehensive enough to take in a scheme  alreadyframed.	  We have no doubt that a scheme framed is  a  thingdone under the repealed Act.A  further  contention	is  raised  on	the  basis  of	 theprovisions  of	s. 68B to achieve the same  result,  namely,that the said section indicates a different intention withinthe meaning of s. 6 of the General Clauses Act.	 Section 68Breads:"  The provisions of this Chapter and rules and orders	madethereunder   shall  have  effect  notwithstanding   anythinginconsistent  therewith contained in Chapter IV of this	 Actor  in any other law for the time being in force or  in	 anyinstrument having effect by virtue of any such law.  "This  section embodies nothing more than the bare  statementthat   the   provisions	  of   this   Act   should   prevailnotwithstanding the fact that they are inconsistent with anyother  law.  We have expressed our view that the  provisionsof  this Act are prospective in. operation  and,  therefore,nothing	 in those sections, which we have already  analysed,is  inconsistent  with the provisions of the  State  law  inregard	to  its	 operation  with  respect  to.	transactionscompleted  thereunder.	Assuming without deciding  that	 theword 'instrument' in s. 68B includes a scheme, we do not seeany  provisions in the Act which are inconsistent  with	 thescheme framed under the State Act.  The provisions  startingfrom  s. 68C only contemplate a scheme initiated  after	 theAmending  Act  came  into force and  therefore	they  cannotobviously be inconsistent with a scheme already framed underthe State Act before the Amending Act came into force.	 We,therefore,  hold that s. 6 of the General Clauses Act  savesthe scheme framed under the U. P. Act.The next contention of the learned Counsel Mr.53Nambiar,  namely, that the scheme being a  prescription	 forthe  future,  it has a continuous operation even  after	 theAmending  Act  became law, with the result  that  after	 theAmending Act, there was no valid law to sustain it, need notdetain	us;  for, we have held that the State  law  subsistseven after the Amending Act to sustain the things done underthe former Act.This  leads  us to the contention of  the  learned  AdvocateGeneral	 that  even if the Constitution	 (Fourth  Amendment)Act, 1955, could not be relied on to sustain the validity ofthe  U. P. Act, there was no deprivation of property of	 theappellants  within  the	 meaning of the	 decisions  of	thisCourt in The State of West Bengal v. Subodh Gopal Bose	(1);Dwarkadas  Shrinivas  of Bombay v. The Sholapur	 Spinning  &Weaving	 Co.  Ltd. (2) and Saghir Ahmad's Case	(3).   Thosecases  have held that cls. (1) and (2) of Art. 31 relate  tothe same subject matter and that, though there is no  actualtransfer  of  property to the State, if by the	Act  of	 theState, an individual has been substantially dispossessed  orwhere  his  right  to use and enjoy his	 property  has	beenseriously  impaired  or the value of the property  has	beenmaterially  reduced,  it  would	 be  acquisition  or  takingpossession  within  the	 meaning  of el.  (2)  of  the	saidArticle.  After a faint attempt to raise this question,	 thelearned	 Advocate  General  conceded that  in  view  of	 thedecision  in  Saghir Ahmad's Case he could not	support	 hisargument  to the effect that the State did not	deprive	 thepetitioners  of their interest in a commercial	undertaking.In  the said case, this Court held in express terms that  U.P.  Transport  Act, 1951, which, in  effect  prohibited	 thepetitioners   therein  from  doing  their  motor   transportbusiness  deprived them of their property or interest  in  acommercial  undertaking within the meaning of Art. 31(2)  ofthe Constitution.  Mukherjea J., as he then was, observed atpage 728 :" It is not seriously disputed on behalf of the	 respondentsthat  the appellants' right to ply motor vehicles  for	gainis, in any event, an interest in a(1) [1954] S.C.R. 587.		 (2) [1954] S.C.R. 674.(3)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 707.54commercial  undertaking.   There is no doubt also  that	 theappellants  have  been	deprived--of  this  interest."The learned Judge proceeded to state at page 729 :"  In view of that majority decision it must be taken to  besettled	 now that clauses (1) and (2) of article 31 are	 notmutually exclusive in scope but should be, read together  asdealing with the same subject, namely, the protection of theright	to   property  by  means  of  limitations   on	 theState's.powers,	 the deprivation contemplated in clause	 (1)being no other than acquisition or taking possession of	 theproperty  referred to in clause (2).  The  learned  AdvocateGeneral	 conceded this to be the true legal  position  afterthe.  pronouncements of this Court referred to	above.	 Thefact  that  the buses belonging to the appellants  have	 notbeen  acquired by the Government is also not material.	 Theproperty of a business may be both tangible and	 intangible.Under  the  statute  the  Government  may  not	deprive	 theappellants of their buses or any other tangible property butthey are depriving them of the business of running buses  onhire  on  public roads.	 We think therefore  that  in  thesecircumstances	the  legislation  does	conflict  with	 theprovisions  of article 31(2) of the Constitution and as	 therequirements of that clause have not been complied with,  itshould be held to be invalid on that ground.The above observations are clear and unambiguous and they donot  give  scope for further argument on  the  subject.	  Itfollows	 that if the Act does not provide for  compensation,the  Act  would	 be  invalid  being  in	 conflict  with	 theprovisions of Art. 31(2) of the Constitution.The next question is whether in fact the provisions of	Art.31(2)  of the Constitution, before the Constitution  (FourthAmendment) Act, 1955, were complied with.  Under Art.  31(2)no  property shall be taken possession of or  acquired	savefor  a	public purpose and save by authority  of  law  whichprovides  for compensation for the property so	acquired  orrequisitioned	and   either  fixes  the   amount   of	 thecompensation  or specifies the principles on which, and	 themanner in which, the compensation is to be determined and55given.	 In The State of West Bengal v. Mrs.  Bela  Banerjee(1), Patanjali Sastri, C. J., has defined the meaning of theword I compensation' at page 563, as under"  While  it  is  true that the	 legislature  is  given	 thediscretionary  power  of laying down  the  principles  whichshould govern the determination of the amount to be given tothe  owner  for the property appropriated,  such  principlesmust  ensure  that  what is determined as  payable  must  becompensation,  that is, a just equivalent of what the  ownerhas  been  deprived  of.  Within the limits  of	 this  basicrequirement  of	 full indemnification  of  the	expropriatedowner, the Constitution allows free play to the	 legislativejudgment   as	to   what  principles	should	 guide	 thedetermination	of   the  amount  payable.    Whether	suchprinciples take into account all the elements which make  upthe  true  value of the property appropriated  and,  excludematters which are to be neglected, is a justiciable issue tobe  adjudicated	 by  the  Court.,  This,  indeed,  was	 notdisputed.  "On  the	 basis	of  the	 aforesaid  principle,	Mr.  Nambiarcontends  that	the  U. P. Act does  not  provide  for	com-pensation  in the sense of giving the operator	deprived  ofhis interest a just equivalent of what he has been  deprivedof, or fix any principles to guide the determination of	 theamount	payable.  The U.P. Act, the argument proceeds,	doesnot  provide at all for compensation payable in	 respect  ofthe  interest of the operator in a  commercial	undertaking,but only gives compensation for the unexpired period of	 thepermit.	  On  the other hand, the learned  Advocate  Generalcontends that the appellants would be entitled only to	justequivalent  of	the  interest that  they  are  deprived	 of,namely,	 the interest in a commercial undertaking  and	thatthe cumulative effect of the provisions of the U. P. Act  isthat  just equivalent of the said interest is given.  As  itis  common  case  that	what the Act  should  give  is	justcompensation   for  the	 interest  of  the  operator  in   acommercial undertaking, we Shall now examine the  provisionsof the U. P. Act to ascertain whether it(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 558.56provides  a  quid pro quo for the interest the	operator  isdeprived ofThe provisions of the U. P. Act relating to compensation payusefully be read at this stage:Section 5 : " (1) Where the scheme published under section 4provides  for  cancellation of any existing  permit  grantedunder Chapter IV of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, or for thetransfer  of  such permit to any other route or	 routes	 theTransport  Commissioner	 shall cause notice  thereof  to  beserved	on  the	 permit holder concerned and  on  any  otherpersons	 to  whom in his opinion special  notice  should  begiven.	 The notice shall also require the permit-holder  tolodge  a  statement  in	 writing within	 the  period  to  bespecified. therein whether he agrees to the transfer of	 thepermit.(2)  If	 the  permit-holder agrees to the  transfer  of	 hispermit,	 he  shall,  provided  the  permit  is	actually  sotransferred  ultimately,  be  not  entitled  to	 claim	com-pensation  under  section  11 but the  transference  of	 thepermit	shall  be deemed to be in lieu of  compensation	 andcomplete discharge therefor of the State Government.  Where,however,  the permit-holder does not agree to the  transfer,the  permit  shall, without prejudice to the  right  of	 thepermit-holder to get compensation under the said section  beliable to be cancelled."Section 11 :" (1) Where in pursuance of the Scheme publishedunder section 8 any existing permit granted under Chapter IVof  the	 Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, is or is deemed  to	havebeen  cancelled	 or the route or routes covered	 by  it	 arecurtailed or are deemed to have been curtailed, the  permit-holder	shall, except in cases where transfer of the  permithas  been agreed to under sub-section (2) of section  5;  beentitled  to  receive and be paid such compensation  by	 theState  Government  for	and  in	 respect  of  the  prematurecancellation  of  the  permit or, as the case  may  be,	 forcurtailment of the route or routes covered by the permit  asmay  be determined in accordance with the principles  speci-fied in Schedule I.(2)  The  compensation payable under this section  shall  bedue as from the date of order of cancellation57of  the	 permit or curtailment of the route covered  by	 thepermit.(3)  There  shall  be paid by the State	 Government  on	 theamount	of  compensation  determined  under  subsection	 (1)interest at the rate of two and one-half per cent. from	 thedate of order of cancellation or curtailment of route to thedate of determination of compensation as aforesaid.(4)The	compensation  payable under this  section  shall  begiven in cash.(5)  The  amount of compensation to be given  in  accordancewith  the provisions of sub-section (1) shall be  determinedby  the Transport Commissioner and shall be offered  to	 thepermit-holder  in  full	 satisfaction  of  the	compensationpayable	 under this Act and if the amount so offered is	 notacceptable to the permit-holder, the Transport	Commissionermay within such time and in such manner as may be prescribedrefer the matter to the District Judge whose decision in thematter shall be final and shall not be called in question inany Court.  "Section 12: " Where a permit granted under Chapter IV of theMotor Vehicles Act, 1939, has been cancelled or the route towhich the permit relates has been curtailed in pursuance  ofthe  scheme published under section 8, the State  Governmentmay  if the holder of the permit offers to sell,  choose  topurchase the motor vehicles covered by the permit upon termsand conditions laid down in Schedule II:Provided,   firstly,  that  the	 vehicle  is  of   a   type,manufacture and model notified by the State Government; andProvided,  secondly, that the vehicle is in  a	mechanicallysound  condition  and  is  otherwise  declared	fit  by	 theTransport Commissioner or his nominee.SCHEDULE I."Paragraph  1: The compensation payable under section 11  ofthe  Act  for cancellation of a contract carriage  or  stagecarriage or public carrier's permit under clause (e) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the858Act  shall  be computed for every' vehicle  covered  by	 thepermit as follows, namely:(1) For every complete month or part	  Rupees OneRupees of a month exceeding fifteen	    hundreddays of one the unexpired period ofthe permit.(2) For part of a month not exceeding	     Rupeesfifteen days of the unexpired period	      fiftyof a permit.Provided always that the amount of compensation shall in  nocase  be  less	than rupees two hundred.Paragraph 2: The compensation payable under section 1 1	 forcurtailment  of	 the  route or routes  covered	by  a  stagecarriage  or public carrier permit under clause (d) of	sub-section	 (1)  of section 10 of the Act shall  be  an  amountcomputed in accordance with the following formula:			Y x A		       -------			  RIn this formula-Y means the length in mile by which the route is curtailed.A  means the amount computed in accordance with Paragraph  1above.R  means the total length in miles of the route	 covered  bythe permit."The aforesaid provisions constitute an integrated scheme forpaying compensation to the person whose permit is cancelled.The  gist of the provisions may be stated thus:	 The  schememade   by   the	 State	Government  may	 provide   for	 thecancellation  of a permit, for curtailment of the  route  orroutes or for transfer of the permit to other routes.  Wherea  transfer  of the permit is accepted by the  operator,  hewill  not  be entitled to any compensation; if he  does	 notaccept,	 compensation will be paid to him with	interest  inrespect	 of the premature cancellation of the permit, or  asthe  case may be for the curtailment of the route or  routescovered	 by the permit.	 The amount of compensation  to	 be'given shall be deter mined by the Transport Commissioner  inaccordance with the provisions of the Act, and if the amountso59offered	  is  not  acceptable  to  the	permit-holder,	 theTransport  Commissioner	 may, within such time and  in	suchmanner	as  may	 be  prescribed, refer	the  matter  to	 theDistrict Judge whose decision in the matter shall he  final.There  is  also	 a  provision  enabling	 the  Government  topurchase  the motor vehicles covered by the permit,  if	 theholder	of  the permit offers to sell and  if  the  vehiclessatisfy	 the  specifications  laid down	 in  the  Act.	 Thequestion  is whether these provisions offer a quid  pro	 quofor  the  interest  of the  petitioners	 in  the  commercialundertaking  i.e.,  business  in motor	transport.   Let  usexamine the question from the standpoint of a business deal.If the transport business is sold, the seller gets his valuefor the assets minus the liabilities and for his  good-will.In the case of a scheme framed under the Act, the assets areleft  with the holder of the permit and under  certain	con-ditions the State purchases them.  As the scheme is a phasedone,  it cannot be said, though there will be  difficulties,that  the  assets cannot be sold to other operators.   If  apermit	is  not cancelled but only  transferred	 to  anotherroute, it may be assumed that if the transfer is voluntarilyaccepted  by  the permit-holder, he is	satisfied  that	 theroute given to him is as good as that on which he was  doinghis  business.	On the other hand, if he chooses  to  rejectthe  transfer  of  his permit to  another  route  and  takescompensation,  the  question  is  whether  the	compensationprovided by s. 11 is anything like an equivalent or quid proquo for the interest in the commercial undertaking  acquiredby  the State.	If cl. (5) of s. 11 had not been  there,  wewould have had no hesitation to hold that a flat rate of Rs.100  or	 less irrespective of the real loss  to	 the  holderwould not be compensation within the meaning of Art.  31(2).But,  in our view, s. 11(5) gives a different complexion  tothe entire question of compensation.  Under that clause.,  apermit-holder aggrieved by the amount of compensation  givenby  the	 Transport Commissioner may ask	 for  referring	 thematter	to the District Judge for his decision in regard  tothe   adequacy	 of  the  compensation.	  This	 clause	  issusceptible of both a strict as well as a60liberal interpretation.	 If it is strictly construed, it maybe   held  that	 what  the  District  Judge  can   give	  ascompensation  is only that which the Transport	Commissionercan,  under the provisions of s. 11(1) i. e., at  the  ratesmentioned in the Schedule.  But a liberal interpretation, ascontended  by the learned Advocate General, can be given  tothat  clause  without doing violence to	 the  language	usedtherein and that interpretation will carry out the intentionof  the	 legislature.  If the jurisdiction of  the  DistrictJudge  relates only to the calculation of figures, the	saidclause becomes meaningless in the present context.   Section11  read with the Schedule gives the rate  of  compensation,the  rate of interest, the dates from which and up to  whichthe said compensation is to be paid with interest.  The dutyof calculating the said amount is entrusted to the TransportCommissioner  who  will be a fairly senior  officer  of	 theGovernment.  If he made any mistake in mere calculations, hewould certainly correct it if the permit-holder pointed	 outthe mistake to him.  In the circumstances, is it  reasonableto assume that the legislature gave a remedy for the permit-holder	 to  approach  the  District  Judge  for  the	merecorrection of the calculated figures ? It is more reasonableto  assume  that  the intention of the	legislature  was  toprovide	 prima	facie  for, compensation at  flat  rate	 andrealising  the	inadequacy  of the rule	 of  thumb  to	meetvarying	 situations,  it  entrusted the duty  of  the  finaldetermination  of compensation to a judicial officer of	 therank  of a District Judge.  The provisions of s.  11(5),  inour  view,  are	 certainly susceptible of  such.  an  inter-pretation  as to carry out the intention of the	 legislatureindicated  by  the general scheme of  the  provisions.	 Thecrucial	 words	are  "	if the	amount	so  offered  is	 notacceptable to the permit-holder ". The amount offered is  nodoubt the amount calculated in accordance with s.11(1).	 Buta  duty is cast on the Transport Commissioner to  refer	 thematter	to the District Judge if the amount offered  is	 notacceptable  to the permit-holder.  The word" acceptable"  isof very wide connotation and it does not limit the objectiononly  to the wrong calculation under s. 11(1).	The  permit-holder may61not  accept  the  amount on  the  ground  that	compensationoffered	 is  inadequate and is not a quid pro  quo  for	 theinterest  of which he is deprived.  It is therefore for	 theDistrict Judge, on the evidence adduced by both the parties,to  decide  the	 proper compensation to be paid	 to  him  inrespect	 of  the  right	 of which  he  is  deprived  by	 thecancellation  of the permit.  The language of s.  11(5)	 notonly  bears the aforesaid construction but also carries	 outthe  intention of the legislature, for it cannot be  imputedto  the legislature that it intended to deprive	 a  valuableinterest by giving a nominal amount to the permit-holder.Section	 11(5)	speaks of the time limit within	 which	suchreference  may	be made to the District Judge, but  no	suchrule  has  been brought to our notice.	We  hope  and  trustthat,  without	standing  on  any  such	 technicality,	 theTransport  Commissioner,  if  so required,  will  refer	 thematter of compensation to the District Judge.  Having regardto the entire scheme of compensation provided by the Act, wehold that the Act provided for adequate compensation for theinterest  acquired within the meaning of Art. 31(1)  of	 theConstitution.It is said that out of the twenty five appeals appellants inthirteen  appeals  had accepted to take a  transfer  of	 thepermits to different routes; but on behalf of the appellantsit is denied that the acceptance was unequivocal and  final.They  say that it was conditional and that, as a  matter  offact, they have not been plying the buses on the transferredroutes	and indeed have been operating them only on the	 oldroutes.	  In  these circumstances, we cannot hold  that	 thesaid appellants accepted the alternative routes.  If they orsome  of them choose to accept any alternative routes,	theyare  at	 liberty to do so, in which event they will  not  beentitled to any compensation.Lastly, the learned Counsel for the appellants contends thatel. (2) of s. 3 of the U. P. Act infringes their fundamentalrights	under Art. 31(2) inasmuch as it prevents  them	fromquestioning the validity of the scheme on the ground that itis not for public purpose.  Section 3 reads:62(1)  Where the State Government is of the opinion that it isnecessary  in  the interest of the general  public  and	 forsubserving   the  common  good,	 or  for   maintaining	 anddeveloping efficient road transport system so to direct,  itmay,  by notification in the official Gazette  declare	thatthe  road transport services in general, or  any  particularclass of such service on any route or portion thereof as maybe  specified, shall be run and operated exclusively by	 theState Government, or by the State Government in	 conjunctionwith  railways	or be run and operated partly by  the  StateGovernment and partly by others under and in accordance withthe provisions of this Act.(2)  The   notification	 under	sub-section  (1)  shall	  beconclusive evidence of the facts stated therein.  "The argument of the learned Counsel on the interpretation ofthis section appears to be an after-thought; for the recordsdo  not disclose that the appellants attempted	to  questionthe said fact before the Government and they were  precludedfrom  doing  so on the basis of cl. (2) of s. (3).   We	 arenot,  therefore, prepared to allow the appellants  to  raisethe contention for the first time before us.The  last contention, which is special to Civil	 Appeal	 No.429  of	 1958, is that during the crucial  period  when	 thescheme of nationalization was put through, the appellant hadno  permit,  it having been cancelled by the  order  of	 theappropriate tribunal; but subsequently, after the scheme wasfinalised,  the	 said order was set aside by  the  AppellateTribunal  retrospectively  and therefore the  order  of	 theState Government made behind the back of the appellant	doesnot bind him.  The appellant's permit was not renewed by theRegional  Transport Authority.	Against the said  order,  hepreferred  an appeal to the State Transport Tribunal,  whichby an order dated September 6, 1956, allowed the appeal	 anddirected  that the appellant's permit be renewed  for  threeyears beginning from November 1, 1953.	In disposing of	 theappear the State Transport Tribunal observed:"  We  are  told that in the meantime this  route  has	beennotified and the Government buses are plying63on it.	The effect of this order will be that the  appellantshall be deemed to be in possession of a valid permit and heshall  have  to	 be  displaced	after  following  the  usualprocedure  prescribed by the U. P. Road	 Transport  Services(Development) Act."Pursuant  to  their  order, it	appears	 that  the  RegionalTransport  Authority renewed his permit on October 11,	1956with  effect from November 1, 1953 to October 31, 1956.	  Inthe circumstances, as the petitioner was not a permit-holderwhen  the Government made the order, no relief can be  givento  him	 in this appeal.  This order will not  preclude	 theappellant  in  Civil Appeal No. 429 of 1958, if he  has	 anyright,	to  take appropriate proceedings against  the  StateGovernment.In the result, all the appeals are dismissed with one set ofcosts to the State of Uttar Pradesh.		    Appeals dismissed.