PETITIONER:PUNJAB DISTILLING INDUSTRIES LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, SIMLADATE OF JUDGMENT:24/11/1958BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1959 AIR  346		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 683 CITATOR INFO : R	    1964 SC1709	 (1,2,13) R	    1973 SC 376	 (13) R	    1988 SC1263	 (15) C	    1989 SC1696	 (9)ACT:       Income-tax-Distiller taking deposit refundable on return	 of       bottles-Balance	 of  deposits  after  refund,  if   trading       receipt-Indian Income-tax Act (XI of 1922), S. 10.HEADNOTE:The appellant, a distiller of country liquor, carried on thebusiness of selling liquor to licensed wholesalers.  Due  toshortage  of  bottles during the war a scheme  was  evolved,where under the distiller could charge a wholesaler a  pricefor the bottles in which liquor was supplied at rates  fixedby  the	 Government,  which lie was bound to  repay  to	 thewholesaler  on	his returning the bottles.  In	addition  tothis  the appellant took a further sum from the	 wholesalersdescribed  as  'security  deposit' for	the  return  of	 thebottles.   Like the price of the bottles these	moneys	werealso repaid as and when the bottles were returned with	thisdifference that the entire sum was refunded only when go% ofthe bottles covered by it had been returned.  The  appellantwas assessed to income-tax on the balance of the amounts  ofthese additional sums left after the refunds made there out.Held,  that the amounts paid to the appellant and  describedas  'security deposit' were trading receipts  and  thereforeincome	of the appellant assessable to tax.   These  amountswere paid as an integral part of the commercial	 transactionof  the sale of liquor in bottles and represented  an  extraprice  charged	for  the bottles.  They	 were  not  securitydeposits  as  there was nothing to secure,  there  being  noright to the return of the bottles.684K.   M. S. Lakshmanier & Sons v. Commissioner of  Income-taxand   Excess  Profits  Tax,  Madras,  [1953]  S.C.R.   1057,followed.Davies	v. The Shell Company of China Ltd., (1951) Tax	Cas.133;  and  Morley  v. Tattersall, (1938)  22  Tax  Cas.	 51,distinguished.Imperial  Tobacco  Co.	v. Kelly, (1943) 25  Tax  Cas.	292,referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 119 of 1955.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated June 16, 1953,  ofthe Punjab High Court in Civil Reference No. 1 of 1953.A.   V. Viswanatha Sastri and Naunit Lal, for the appellant.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India,R.   Gopalakrishnan,  R.  H. Dhebar and D.  Gupta,  for	 therespondent.1958.  November 24.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbySARKAR,	 J.-The appellant is a company carrying on  businessas  a distiller of country liquor.  It was  incorporated  inMay  1945  and	was in fact a  previously  existing  companycalled the Amritsar Distillery Co. Ltd. reconstructed  underthe provisions of the Company's Act.  The appellant  carriedon the same business as its predecessor, namely, sale of theproduce	 of  its distillery to	licensed  wholesalers.	 Thewholesalers  in	 their	turn sold  the	liquor	to  licensedretailers   from  whom	the  actual  consumers	made   theirpurchases.   The  entire  trade was  largely  controlled  byGovernment regulations.After  the  war	 started  the  demand  for  country   liquorincreased  but	difficulty was felt in	finding	 bottles  inwhich  the liquor was to be sold.  In order to	relieve	 thescarcity of bottles the Government devised in 1940 a  schemecalled	the  buy-back scheme.  The scheme in  substance	 wasthat  a	 distiller on a sale of liquor	became	entitled  tocharge	a  wholesaler a price for the bottles in  which	 theliquor	was supplied at rates fixed by the Government  whichhe  was	 bound	to repay to the	 wholesaler  on	 the  latterreturning the bottles.	The			    685same  arrangement, but with prices calculated  at  differentrates  was  made  for  the  liquor  sold  in  bottles  by  awholesaler to a retailer and by a retailer to the consumers.Apparently  it was conceived that the price fixed under	 thescheme would be found to be higher than the price which	 thebottles	 would fetch in the open market and the	 arrangementfor  the refund of the price would therefore  encourage	 thereturn	of  the	 bottles  from	the  consumers	through	 theintermediaries	ultimately  to	the  distiller.	  The  pricerefundable was later increased perhaps because the  previousprice  did  not	 fully achieve the  desired  result  of	 thebottles finding their way back to the distillers.Sometime  in  1944, the Amritsar Distillery Co.	 Ltd.  whichthen was in existence, insisted on the wholesalers paying toit  in addition to the price of the bottles fixed under	 thebuy-back  scheme,  certain  amounts  described	as  securitydeposits   and	calculated  at	varying	 rates	per   bottleaccording  to sizes for the bottles in which the liquor	 wassupplied  to  them  promising to pay back  for	each  bottlereturned at the rate' applicable to it and further promisingto pay back the entire amount paid on a transaction when  90per  cent. of the bottles covered by it had  been  returned.The  company  while  it	 was  in  existence  realised  theseadditional sums and so did the appellant after it took	overthe  business.	 The object of demanding  and  taking  theseadditional   sums  was	obviously  to	provide	  additionalinducement for the return of the bottles to the distiller sothat  its  trade in selling the produce	 of  its  distillerymight  not be hampered for want of bottles.  No	 time  limithad  been fixed within which the bottles had to be  returnedin order to entitle a wholesaler to the refund, nor does  itappear	that a refund had ever been refused.  The  price  ofthe  bottles  received by the appellant under  the  buy-backscheme	was  entered by it in its  general  trading  accountwhile  the additional sum received for them was	 entered  inthe general ledger under the heading " Empty Bottles  ReturnSecurity Deposit Account ". It is not disputed that for	 theaccounting  periods with which this case is  concerned,	 theadditional amounts had been taken686without	 Government's sanction and entirely as	a  conditionimposed by the appellant itself for the sale of its liquor.The  appellant was assessed to income-tax on the balance  ofthe amounts of these additional sums left after the  refundsmade  there  out.   It had also been  assessed	to  businessprofits tax and excess profits tax on the same balance.	 Itsappeals	 against the orders of assessment to these taxes  tothe  Appellate Assistant Commissioner and thereafter to	 theTribunal  failed.   It then obtained an	 order	referring  acertain question arising out of the assessments for decisionby  the	 High  Court of	 Punjab.   The	question  originallysuggested was reframed and in its final form reads thus:Whether	 on  the  facts and circumstances of  the  case	 thecollections  by	 the  assessee	company	 described  in	 itsaccounts  as " empty bottle return security  deposits"	wereincome assessable under section 10 of the Income-tax Act?The  High  Court answered the question in  the	affirmative.The present appeal is against that decision which related toall the three varieties of taxes for which the appellant hadbeen made liable.We  are	 concerned in this appeal only with  the  additionalsums demanded and received by the appellant and described assecurity  deposit  and not with the price of  bottles  whichalso  it  took under government sanction.  The	question  iswhether these amounts called security deposits were. tradingreceipts.   Now,  as already stated, the  appellant's  tradeconsisted  in  selling	in bottles liquor  produced  in	 itsdistillery  to	wholesalers.   The sale was  made  on  theseterms:	In each transaction of sale the appellant took	fromthe wholesaler the price of the liquor, a certain sum  fixedby  the	 government, as price of the bottles  in  which	 theliquor was supplied and a further sum described as  securitydeposit for the return of the bottles.	The moneys taken  asprice  of the bottles were returned as and when the  bottleswere  returned.	  The moneys described as  security  depositwere  also  returned as and when the bottles  were  returnedwith  only this difference that in this case the entire	 sumtaken in one687transaction  was refunded when 90 per cent. of	the  bottlescovered by it had been returned, though the remaining 10 percent.  had not been returned.  Such being the nature of	 theappellant's trade and the manner in which it was  conducted,these  additional  sums	 appear	 to us	to  be	its  tradingreceipts.Mr. Vishwanatha Sastri appearing on behalf of the  appellantfirst contended that on these facts the amounts could not beregarded  as price and that therefore they were not  tradingreceipts.   He	said  that  the price  of  the	bottles	 wasseparately  fixed  and	the  amount  taken  as	deposit	 wasdifferent  from	 and exclusive of, it.	This  contention  isfounded on the use of the word price in the buy-back  schemein  connection	with  the  rates  which	 the  distiller	 wasentitled  to charge a wholesaler for the bottles.  It  seemsto us that this contention lays undue emphasis on that word.We  think that the High Court took substantially  a  correctview  of  the matter when it said that	in  realising  theseamounts " the company was really charging an extra price forthe bottles ". It is clear to us that the trade consisted ofsale  of bottled liquor and the consideration for  the	salewas constituted by several amounts respectively called,	 theprice  of  the	liquor, the price of  the  bottles  and	 thesecurity  deposit.   Unless  all these sums  were  paid	 theappellant  would  not have sold the liquor.  So	 the  amountwhich  was called security deposit was actually a  -part  ofthe  consideration  for the sale and therefore part  of	 theprice  of  what was sold.  Nor does it make  any  differencethat  the  price of the bottles was entered in	the  generaltrading account while the so called deposit was entered in aseparate  ledger  termed  "  empty  bottles  return  depositaccount ", for, what was a consideration for the sale cannotcease  to  be  so  by being written up in  the	books  in  aparticular  manner.  Again the fact that the money  paid  asprice of the bottles was repaid as and when the-bottles werereturned while the other moneys were repaid in full when  90per  cent. of the bottles were returned does not affect	 thequestion  for ,none of these sums ceased to be parts of	 theconsideration because it had been agreed that they would be688refunded in different manners.	It is not contended that thefact  that  the additional sums might have  to	be  refundedshowed	that they were not part of the price.  It could	 notbe  so contended because what was expressly said to  be	 theprice  of  bottles  and	 admitted  to  be  price  was	alsorefundable.   If  so,  then  a	slightly  different   methodproviding  for their refund cannot by itself  prevent  theseadditional sums from being Price.Now,  if these additional sums were not part of	 the  price,what  were  they ? Mr. Sastri said that they  were  depositssecuring  the  return of the bottles.  According to  him  ifthey  were  such security deposits, they  were	not  tradingreceipts.  Again we are unable to agree.  There could be  nosecurity  given for the return of the bottles  unless  therewas a right to their return for if there was no such  right,there  would be nothing to secure.  Now we find no trace  ofsuch a right in the statement of the care.  The	 wholesalerswere clearly under no obligation to return the bottles.	 Theonly thing that Mr. Sastri could point out for	establishingsuch  an obligation was the use of the words " security	 de-posit  ". We are unable to hold that these words  alone	 aresufficient  to	create an obligation in the  wholesalers  toreturn	the bottles which they had bought.  If it  had	beenintended  to  impose  an obligation on	the  wholesalers  toreturn	the bottles, these would not have been sold to	themat all and a bargain would have been expressly made for	 thereturn	of the bottles and the security deposit	 would	thenhave been sensible and secured their return.  The fact	thatthere was no time limit fixed for the return of the  bottlesto  obtain  the	 refund also indicates	that  there  was  noobligation  to	return the bottles.  The  substance  of	 thebargain	 clearly  was  that the appellant  having  sold	 thebottles	 agreed to take them back and repay all the  amountspaid in respect of them.For this part of the case Mr. Sastri relied on Davies v. TheShell  Company of China Ltd. (1), but we do not	 think	thatcase  assists at all.  What had happened there was that	 theShell  Company	had appointed a large number  of  agents  inChina to sell its products(1)  (1951) 32 Tax Cas. 133.			    689and  had  taken from each agent a deposit to  secure  itselfagainst the risk of default by the agent duly to PI  accountfor  the sale proceeds.	 The deposits were made	 in  Chinesedollars and later converted into sterling.  When the Companyclosed	its  business in China it reconverted  the  depositsinto Chinese dollars and refunded to the agents the depositsmade  by  them.	  Owing to a  favourable  exchange  for	 theconversion  of	sterling into dollars, the  Company  made  aprofit	and it was sought to assess this profit	 to  income-tax.   It was held that the profit could not be	 taxed,	 forthe  deposits  out  of which it was  made  were	 really	 nottrading receipts at all.  Jenkins, L. J., observed atp. 157:"  Mr. Grant described the agents' deposits as part  of	 theCompany's trading structure, not trade receipts but anteriorto  the stage of trade receipts, and I think that is a	fairdescription  of	 them.	It seems to me that it would  be  anabuse of language to describe one of these agents, after  hehad  made a deposit, as a trade creditor of the Company;  heis a creditor of the Company in respect of the deposit,	 noton account of any goods supplied or services rendered by himin the course of its trade, but simply by virtue of the factthat  he has been appointed an agent of the Company  with  aview to him trading on its behalf, and as a condition of hisappointment  has deposited with or, in other words, lent  tothe company the amount of his stipulated deposit."lie also said at p. 156:it  If	the agent's deposit had in truth been a	 payment  inadvance to be applied by the Company in discharging the sumsfrom time to time due from the agent in respect of petroleumproducts  transferred to the agent and sold by him the	casemight well be different and might well fall within the ratiodeciding of Landes Bros. v. Simpson (1) and Imperial TobaccoCo.  v.	 Kelly (2).  But that is not the  character  of	 thedeposits here in question.  The intention manifested by	 theterms of the agreement is that the deposit should be(1)  (1934) 19 Tax Cas. 62.(2) (1943) 25 Tax Cas. 292.87690retained   by  the  Company,  carrying	interest   for	 thebenefit of the depositor throughout the terms of the agency.It  is to be available during the period of the	 agency	 formaking good the agent's defaults in the event of any defaultby him ; but otherwise it remains, as I see it, simply as  aloan owing by the Company to the agent and repayable on	 thetermination of the agency ".It  would  therefore appear that the deposits in  that	casewere  held not to be trading receipts because they  had	 notbeen  made  as part of a trading transaction.  It  was	heldthat they had been received anterior to the commencement  ofthe  trading  transactions  and really	formed	the  tradingstructure of the Company.  The character of the amounts withwhich  we  are Concerned is entirely different.	  They	wereparts  of  the	trading	 transactions  themselves  and	veryessential parts: the appellant would not sell liquor  unlessthese  amounts were paid and the trade of the appellant	 wasto make profit out of these sales.  The fact that in certaincircumstances  these amounts had to be repaid did not  altertheir nature as trading receipts.  We have already said thatit  is not disputed that what was expressly termed as  priceof  bottles  was a trading receipt though these	 had  to  berepaid	in almost similar circumstances.  We may  point	 outthat it had not been said in Shell Company case(1) that	 thedeposits were not trading receipts for the reason that	theymight  have to be refunded; the reason for the decision	 wasotherwise as we have earlier pointed out, namely, that	theywere  no  part of the trading  transactions.   We  thereforethink that the deposits dealt with in the Shell Company casewere  entirely of a different nature and that case does	 nothelp.	Mr.  Sanyal was prepared to argue that even  if	 theamounts	 were  securities deposited for the  return  of	 thebottles, they would still be trading receipts, for they werepart  of  the  trading transactions and the  return  of	 thebottles	 was necessary to enable the appellant to  carry  onits trade, namely, to sell liquor in them.  As we have	heldthat  the  amounts  had not been paid as  security  for	 thereturn of the bottles, we do not(1)  (1951) 32 Tax Cas. 1133.      691consider it necessary to pronounce upon thiscontention.We might also refer to the observationsmade   in   ImperialTobacco Co. v. Kelly(1) mentioned in the Shell Company	case(2)  and set out below.	 There the Company in the course  ofits trading activity used to purchase tobacco in America andfor  that  purpose had to acquire American dollars.   It  sohappened  that	after it had acquired a	 certain  amount  ofdollars	 for  making the purchases, it	was  prevented	frombuying tobacco in America by Government orders passed due tooutbreak  of war.  While the dollars lay with  the  Company,they  appreciated in value and later the  Treasury  acquiredthe dollars and paid the Company for them in sterling at thethen current rate of exchange, as a result of which  paymentthe Company made a profit.  It was hold that the profit	 wasa  trading receipt of the Company.  Lord Greene said  at  p.300:" The purchase of the dollars was the first step in carryingout an intended commercial transaction, namely, the purchaseof  tobacco leaf.  The dollars were bought in  contemplationof  that  and  nothing else ". He  also	 observed  that	 thedollars	  "  were  an  essential  part	of  a	contemplatedcommercial operation ". It seems to us that the amounts withwhich this case is concerned, were paid and were  refundableas an integral part of a commercial transaction, namely, thesale of liquor in bottles by the appellant to a wholesaler.The  case nearest to the present one is, in our	 view,	thatdecided	 by  this Court in K. M. S. Lakshmanier	 &  Sons  v.Commissioner  of Income-tax and Excess Profits	Tax,  Madras(3).   There  the appellants, who were the  assessees,	weremerchants  carrying on business as the sole  selling  agentsfor  yarn  manufactured by the Madura Mills Co.	 Ltd.	Theysold  the  yarn to their constituents and  in  the  relevantaccounting period the sales were made under three successivearrangements each of which covered a part of it.  Under eacharrangement, the assessees were paid a certain initial(1) (1943) 25 Tax Cas. 292.    (2) (1951) 32 Tax Cas. 133.(3) (1953) S.C.R. 1057.692sum  by their customers.  The question was as to the  natureof  these initial payments.  Under the first  arrangement  "the  appellants	 had  two  accounts  for  each	constituent,namely,	 ' a contract deposit account' and ' a current	yarnaccount',  crediting the moneys received from the  customersin  the	 former account and transferring them  to  the	yarnaccount	 in  adjustment of the price of the  bales  suppliedthen  and there, that is, as and when deliveries  were	madeunder  a contract either in instalment or in full ". It	 washeld that the amounts received from the customers under thisarrangement  were  taxable  as	they  were  merely   advancepayments  of the price and could riot therefore be  regardedas  borrowed money.  This was clearly so because under	thisarrangement cash was deposited by a purchaser in respect  ofa contract of purchase at the time it was made and was to beapplied	 when the goods had been delivered by the  appellantunder that contract towards the price payable in respect  ofthem, such price not being payable in any other manner.The arrangement for the second part of the accounting periodwas  that the payment made by a constituent at the  time  ofthe  making of a contract was taken as "  Contracts  advancefixed deposit " and it was refunded when the goods under thecontract had been supplied and the price in respect  thereofpaid  in  full irrespective of the  earlier  payment.	Withrespect to the payment initially made under this arrangementPatanjali Sastri, C. J., said at p. 1067 :"...we	are of opinion that, having regard to the  terms  ofthe  arrangement  then in force, they partake  more  of	 thenature	of trading receipts than of security  deposits.	  Itwill  be  seen	that the amounts received  were	 treated  asadvance payments in relation to each " contract number " andthough	the agreement provided for the payment of the  pricein  full by the customer and for the deposit being  returnedto him on the completion of delivery under the contract, thetransaction is one providing in substance and effect for theadjustment  of the mutual obligations on the  completion  ofthe contract.  We hold accordingly that693the  sums received during this period cannot be regarded  asborrowed money............It seems to us that the amounts involved in the present casewere  exactly  of  the nature of the deposits  made  in	 thesecond	period in Lakshmanier & Sons' case (1).	  There,  ashere,  as soon as a transaction of sale was made the  sellerreceived  certain moneys in respect of it.  It is true	thatin  Lakshmanier & Sons' case the transaction was a  contractto  sell  goods in future whereas in the  present  case	 thetransaction  was a sale completed by delivery of  the  goodsand  receipt of the consideration.  But that  cannot  changethe nature of the payment.  In Lakshmanier & Sons' case, thepayment	 initially made was refundable after the  price	 hadbeen paid; in the present case the contract is to refund theamount	on the return of the bottles already sold.  In	eachcase  therefore	 the payment was made as part of  a  tradingtransaction  and in each case it was refundable	 on  certainevents	happening.   In	 each case  again  the	payment	 wasdescribed as a deposit.	 As in that case, so in the  presentcase,  the payment cannot be taken to have been made by	 wayof  a security deposit.	 We must therefore on the  authorityof Laskhmanier & Sons' case, hold the amounts in the presentcase to have been trading receipts.It  was	 Mr. Sastri's effort to bring the  case	 within	 thearrangement  that  prevailed  in  the  third  part  of	 theaccounting  period in Laskhmanier & Sons' case, the  initialpayments  made during which were held to be loans.   But  wethink  that  he	 has not succeeded in  this.   The  paymentsduring	the  third  period were	 made  under  the  followingarrangements:  "  Instead of calling for  amounts  from	 youtowards	 'Security  Deposit' due to bales for which  we	 areentering  into forward contracts with you and returning	 thesame to you from the said deposit then and there, as we	 aredoing now, and in order to make it feasible, we have decidedto  demand from you a certain sum towards  Security  Depositand  keep  the	same  with  us	so  long  as  our   businessconnections under forward contracts will continue with you."Under this arrangement a certain(1)[1953] S.C.R. 1057.694sum  was kept in deposit once and for all and  there.  afterLakshmanier  &	Sons  commenced to enter  into	the  tradingtransactions,  namely,	forward contracts for  sale-of	yarnwith  the constituents who deposited the money.	 The sum  sodeposited  was	to be refunded with interest  at  three	 percent.  per  annum  at the end  of  the	business  connectionbetween the parties, if necessary, after retaining there outany  amount due on the contracts made with  the	 constituentwhich,	the  latter was at the termination of  the  businessfound  not to have paid.  Patanjali Sastri, C. J.,  observedat p.	  1063	in  regard to the deposits made	 under	thisarrangement:"The  amount deposited by a customer was no longer  to	haveany  relation  to  the	price fixed  for  the  goods  to  bedelivered under a forward contract-either in instalments  orotherwise.   Such  price was to be paid by the	customer  infull  against delivery in respect of each contract  without,any  adjustment out of the deposit, which was to be held  bythe  appellants as security for the due performance  of	 hiscontracts  by the customer so long as his dealings with	 theappellants by way of forward contract continued, the  appel-lants  paying interest at 3 per cent. in the meanwhile,	 andhaving,	 as appears from the course of dealings between	 theparties'  the use of the money for their own  business.	  Itwas only at the end of the " business connection " with	 theappellants  that  an adjustment was to be made	towards	 anypossible  liability arising out of the	customer's  default.Apart  from  such  a  contingency  arising,  the  appellantsundertook  to repay an equivalent amount at the	 terminationof the dealings.  The transaction had thus all the essentialelements of a contract of loan, and we accordingly hold thatthe deposits received under the final arrangement constituteborrowed money ".Having observed that the description of the payment made  bythe  customer as a deposit made no difference for a  depositincluded  as a loan, the learned Chief Justice further	saidat p. 1064:"  The fact that one of the conditions is that it is  to  beadjusted against a claim arising out of a possible695default	 of the depositor cannot alter the character of	 thetransaction.   Nor can the fact that the purpose  for  whichthe  deposit  is made is to provide a security for  the	 dueperformance of a collateral contract invest the deposit witha  different  character.   It remains a loan  of  which	 therepayment  in full is conditioned by the due fulfilment	 of.the obligations under, the collateral contract ".In  coming  to	the  view that he did  with  regard  to	 thearrangement  prevailing	 in the third  period,	the  learnedChief Justice referred' with approval to the case of  Daviesv.   Shell  Company  of	 China(1)  which  we  have   earliermentioned.Now  it	 seems to us that the reasons on which	the  learnedChief Justice based his conclusion that the deposits  duringthe  third  period were loans do not apply  to	the  presentcase.	In the present case, unlike in Lakshmanier  &  Sons'case,  the  amount paid has a relation to the price  of	 thegoods  sold  ; it is part of that price as we  have  earliersaid.  It was a condition of each transaction of sale by theappellant.   It was refundable to the wholesaler as soon  ashe  returned  the  bottles  in which  the  liquor  had	beensupplied  to him in the transaction in respect of which	 thedeposit had been made.	The deposit in the present case	 wasreally	not  a security at all ; it did not  secure  to	 theappellant anything.  Unlike Lakshmanier & Sons' case, in thepresent	 case  a deposit was made every time  a	 transactiontook  place  and it was refundable under the terms  of	thattransaction  independently  of other  deposits	under  othertransactions.  In Lakshmanier & Sons' case, the deposit	 wasin the nature of the assee's trading structure and  anteriorto  the trading operations, as were the deposits  consideredin  Shell Company case(1).  In the case in hand the  depositwas  part of each trading transaction.	It was re.  fundableunder  the  terms  of the contract  relating  to  a  tradingtransaction  under which it had been made; it was  not	madeunder an independent contract nor was its refund conditionedby a collateral contract, as happened in Lakshmanier & Sons'case.(1)  (1951) 32 Tax Cas. 133.696We therefore think that the present case is governed by	 thearrangement  covering the second period and: not  the  thirdperiod	mentioned in Lakshmanier & Sons case (1), and,	cometo  the	 conclusion  that  the amounts	with  which  we	 areconcerned were trading receipts.Mr.  Sastri  also referred us to Morley	 v.  Pattersall	 andcontended that the amounts with which we are concerned, wereof  the same kind as those consideredin that case  and	werenot  income.   It seems to us that there  is  no  similaritybetween	 the  two cases at all.	 Tattersall was a  firm	 whosold horses of its constituents on their behalf and receivedthe  price which it was liable to pay them.  It so  happenedthat  in the course of years various customers did not	comeand  demand the amounts due to them.   Initially  Tattersallshowed	those amounts in its accounts as  liabilities  whichthey really were.  Later it thought that it would never haveto pay back these amounts and thereupon transferred them  tothe  credit of its partners.  The Revenue sought to tax	 theamounts so transferred as Tattersall's income.	The questionwas  whether the amounts upon transfer	became	Tattersall'sincome.	  It  was  never contended  that  the  amounts	whenreceived  as  price of the constituent's  horses  sold	wereTattersall's  income and the only contention was  that	theybecame	income upon being transferred to the credit  of	 thepartners.   It	was held that the amounts had not  by  beingentered on the credit side, become income of the firm.	 SirWilfrid Greene said at p. 65 :" Mr. Hill's argument was to the effect that, although	theywere not trading receipts at the moment of receipt, they hadat   that  moment  the	potentiality  of  becoming   tradingreceipts.   That proposition involves a view of	 Income	 TaxLaw  in	 which	I  can discover	 no  merit  except  that  ofnovelty."Then again he said:"  It seems to me that the quality and nature of  a  receiptfor Income Tax purposes is fixed once and for all when it isreceived.  What the partners did in(1) [1953] S.C.R. 1057.(2) (1938) 22 Tax Cas. 51.697this  case, as I have said, was to decide  among  themselvesthat what they had previously regarded as a liability of thefirm  they  would not, -for practical reasons, regard  as  aliability;  but that does not mean that at that moment	theyreceived  something,  nor does it mean that at	that  momentthey imprinted upon some existing asset a quality  differentfrom  what it had possessed before.  There was	no  existingasset at all at that time."All  that this case decided was that moneys which  were	 notwhen received, income-and as to this there was no  question-could  never later become income.  With such a case  we	 arenot concerned.	The case turned on the fact that the  moneysreceived by Tattersall were never its moneys; they had	beenreceived on behalf of others and that receipt only created aliability towards them.	 Now it seems to us quite impossibleto say that the amounts with which we are concerned were notthe  appellant's moneys in the sense that the  constituent'smoneys in the hands of Tattersall were not its.	 The amountsin this case were not received on account of any one but theappellant.  No doubt these moneys might have to be  refundedif certain things happened which however might never happen,but  that  did not make them the moneys of those  who  mightbecome entitled to the refund.Mr.  Sastri referred us to the observations of	Sir  WilfridGreene,	 M. R., in Morley v. Tattersall (1) at p. 65 to	 theeffect that, " The money which was received was money  whichhad not got any profit making quality about it; it was moneywhich, in a business sense, was a client's money and  nobodyelse's"	 and  contended	 that the amounts  involved  in	 thepresentcase  were  of  the same nature.	 We  are  unable  toagree.	 If we are right in our view that the  amounts	weretrading	 receipts, it follows that they must have  a  profitmaking quality about them.  Their payment was insisted	uponas a condition upon which alone the liquor would be suppliedwith an agreement that they would. be repaid oil the  returnof the bottles.	 They(1)(1938) 22 Tax Cas. 51.88698were  part  of	the transactions of  sale  of  liquor  whichproduced  the profit and therefore they had a profit  makingquality.   Again, a wholesaler was quite free to return	 thebottles	 or not as he liked and if he did not  return  them,the  appellant	had no liability to refund.  It	 would	thenkeep the moneys as its own and they would then certainly  beprofit.	  The  moneys  when  paid were	the  moneys  of	 theappellant and were thereafter in no sense the moneys of	 thepersons who paid them.Having given the matter our anxious consideration which	 thedifficulties  involved	in  it require, we  think  that	 thecorrect	 view  to  take	 is that the  amounts  paid  to	 theappellant  and described as " Empty Bottles Return  SecurityDeposit " were trading receipts and therefore income of	 theappellant  assessable to tax.  We agree with the High  Courtthat  the question framed for decision in this case,  shouldbe answered in the affirmative.In  the	 result	 the appeal fails  and	is  dismissed.	 Theappellant will pay the costs in this Court.			Appeal dismissed.