PETITIONER:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, BOMBAY	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE PROVIDENT INVESTMENT CO., LTD.DATE OF JUDGMENT:15/05/1957BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.DAS, S.K.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.MENON, P. GOVINDAKAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1957 AIR  664		  1957 SCR 1141ACT:Income	Tax-Capital gains-Managing agent of company  holdingshares	therein-Agreement  of sale of  shares  and  ManagingAgency-Sale  of shares-Rclinquishment of Managing Agency  byway  of	 Resignation--if amounts to a sale  or	transfer  ofManaging  Agency-Agreed Statement of Case for  reference  toHigh Court--Whether binding on the parties-Indian Income-taxAct, 1922 (XI Of 1922), S. 12B.HEADNOTE:The  respondent company was the managing agent of two  othercompanies  holding  certain  shares therein.   D  wrote	 twoletters to the respondent on September 14, 1946, offering topurchase  some	of those shares together with  the  managingagency and agreeing to pay certain sums as earnest money  onthe acceptance of the offer and to pay the balance after thetransfer  of  the  managing agency  was	 sanctioned  by	 thegeneral	 body of shareholders.	By a letter dated  September30, 1946, the respondent accepted the offer on condition  ofa sum of Rs. 1 crore being paid out of the consideration  ascompensation  for  the loss of the managing agency,  and  onreceipt	  of   the  letter,  D	paid  the   earnest   money.Subsequently, D wrote a letter on October 7, 1946,  whereby,in  modification of the arrangement previously made, it	 wasagreed that instead of the managing agency being transferredby  the	 respondent, the latter would resign the  office  ofmanaging  agents and certain individuals would be  appointedDirectors of the two companies.	 Accordingly, the respondentrelinquished  the managing agency and thereupon the  balanceof  consideration  money  was paid to  it.   The  Income-taxOfficer considered that s. 12B of the Indian Income-tax Act,1922,  was applicable to the transaction and on the  footingthat  the managing agency, which was valued at Rs. 1  crore,was  a capital asset, he computed the capital gains  at	 Rs.81,81,900.  The Income-tax Appellate Tribunal held that	 therespondent,  as	 the owner of the shares  and  the  managingagency,	 sold the shares to D and handed back  the  managingagency to the managed companies, and that this handing	backconstituted a transfer.	 On a reference to the High Court bythe Tribunal, the agreed statement of the case proceeded  onthe  basis that the dispute between the parties was  whetherthe transaction with regard to the managing agency  resultedin  capital  gains and the High Court held  that  there	 wasneither a sale nor a transfer of the managing agency  withinthe meaning Of S. 12B of the Act.  On appeal to the  SupremeCourt  by the Commissioner of Income-tax, it  was  contendedfor him (1) that there was a concluded contract1142of  sale  as  a	 result of  the	 letters  of  September	 14,1946, and September 30, 1946, and a sale having taken place,the  letter of October 7, 1946, merely changed the  mode  ofperformance  of	 the contract and did not  affect  the	truelegal  character of the transaction which was a sale of	 themanaging  agency, and (2) that as there was one	 indivisibleconsideration for the whole transaction, including the	saleof  the shares and of the managing agency, the sale  of	 theshares	having	taken  place and  the  entire  considerationhaving been paid, there was a sale within the meaning of  s.12B  of	 the  Act and the transaction  resulted	 in  capitalgains.Held  (1) that on a true construction of the  letters  therewas originally only an agreement to sell the shares togetherwith  the  managing agency and before the  sale	 could	takeplace  the  letter  of October 7, 1946,	 substituted  a	 newcontract,  a  contract	of  relinquishment  rather  than   acontract  of  sale,  so	 far  as  the  managing	 agency	 wasconcerned, and (2) that it was not open to the appellant  togo  behind  the	 agreed statement of the case  and  raise  aquestion of law based on different facts and circumstances.Accordingly,	the   transaction   in	 question   was	   arelinquishment of the managing agency and was neither a salenor  a transfer within the meaning of s. 12B of	 the  IndianIncome-tax Act.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 179 of 1954.Appeal from the judgment and order dated March 12, 1953,  ofthe  Bombay  High Court in Income-tax Reference	 No.  43  of1952.C.   K.	 Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, G.  N.  Joshiand B. H. Dhebar, for the appellant.N.   A. Palkhivala, D. H. Dwarkadas, J. B. Dadachanji, S. N.Andley and Rameshwar Nath, for the respondent.1957.  May 15.	The Judgment of the Court was delivered byS.   K. DAS J.-This is an appeal on a certificate granted bythe  High Court of Judicature at Bombay under sub-s. (2)  ofs. 66A of the Indian Income-tax Act (hereinafter referred toas  the Act).  The appellant is the Commissioner of  Income-tax, Bombay, and the respondent is the Provident  InvestmentCo.,  Ltd., Bombay, hereinafter referred to as the  assessescompany.The  short  question which falls for consideration  in	thisappeal is whether a particular transaction, details1143whereof	 we  shall  presently state,  entered  into  by	 theassessee  company in 1946 resulted in capital  gains  withinthe  meaning of s. 12B of the Act.  The question  which	 wasreferred  to  the High Court under s. 66(1) of the  Act	 wasthis:  "  Whether the assessee company made a  capital	gainamounting  to Rs. 81,81,900 within the meaning of s. 12B  ofthe  Indian  Income-tax Act?" The High	Court  answered	 thequestion in the negative.  The appellant being	dissatisfiedwith the judgment and order of the High Court asked for	 andobtained  a  certificate from the said High Court  that	 thecase is a fit one for appeal to the Supreme Court.The material facts may be very shortly stated.	The assesseecompany	 is a private limited company, the shares  of  whichwere  held by the then Maharaja Scindia of Gwalior  and	 hisnominees.   At the material time, the assessee	company	 wasthe  managing agent of Madhowji Dharamsi Manufacturing	Co.,Ltd.,  hereinafter  briefly  referred  to  as  the  DharamsiCompany,  and  Sir  Shapurji  Broacha  Mills  Ltd.,  brieflyreferred  to as the Shapurji Broacha Company.  The  assesseecompany	 held all the " conversion " shares of the  DharamsiCompany	 and  a substantial majority of	 the  "	 conversion"shares	 of  the  Shapurji  Broacha  Company.	The   DalmiaInvestment  Company  Limited,  which  will  hereinafter	  bebriefly referred to as the Dalmia Company, wrote two lettersto the assessee company on September 14, 1946.	In these twoletters,  the  Dalmia Company offered to purchase  28,328  "conversion  " shares of the Dharamsi Company at Rs. 500	 pershare  together with the managing agency, and also 75,212  "conversion  "  shares  of  the	Shapurji  Broacha   Company,together  with	the managing agency.  We are  not  concernedwith the other details mentioned in the two letters,  exceptthis  that  the Dalmia Company made it clear that  it  wouldpurchase  both the mills or neither, and a time	 limit	tillSeptember  23,	1946, 3 p. m. was imposed during  which	 theoffer  would  remain open.  This time  limit  was,  however,extended later up to September 30, 1946.  The letter furtherstated1144 "  On your accepting the offer, we will pay to you  Rs.  20lakhs  in the case of the Dharamsi Company, Rs. 30 lakhs  inthe case of the Shapurji Broacha Companyas and by way. of earnest money.  You shall have to  arrangeto get the transfer of the managing agency sanctioned by thegeneral body of the shareholders within a period of 40	daysfrom  the  date of acceptance.	As Boon as the	transfer  issanctioned, we will pay the balance of the purchase price."On  September 26, 1946, there was a meeting of the Board  ofDirectors  of  the assessee company.  At that  meeting,	 theBoard  considered the offers made by the Dalmia Company	 andresolved to accept the offers.	The Board further stated  inits  minutes that out of the total amount received from	 thesale of the shares, a sum of Rs.  1 crore should be paid  tothe  assessee company as compensation for' the loss  of	 themanaging  agency of the two mills.  On September  30,  1946,the  assessee company wrote to the Dalmia Company  acceptingthe  offers  made,  subject  to a  condition  which  is	 notmaterial  for  our purpose.  On the same  date,	 the  DalmiaCompany received the acceptance of the offers made by it andsent two drafts, one for Rs. 20 lakhs and the other for	 Rs.30  lakhs.  On October 7, 1946, the Dalmia Company  wrote  avery important letter to the assessee company.	This  lettersaid inter alia:" With reference to the interview our Solicitor Mr. Tanubhaihad  with  your Mr. Wadia, we beg to record that it  is	 nowbeing  agreed  upon  as	 follows  in  modification  of	 thearrangement   previously   made	  between   yourselves	 andourselves:(1)In our letters of offer which have been accepted by	you,it was arranged that the managing agency will be transferredeither	to us or to our nominees.  Now, instead of doing  soby  you, you as the present managing agents will give  their(sic)  resignation, so that at the time of delivery  of	 theshares and payment of moneys, your managing agency will havecome  to an end.  In view of the above, it is not  necessaryto obtain any sanction of general meeting.1145(2)  1. Mr. Shriyans Prasad Jain      2.  Mr. Jaidayal Dalmia      3.  Mr. Shanti Prasad Jain and      4.  Mr. Vishnu Hari Dalmiawill be appointed Directors of both the Mills Companies	 andthereafter  all	 the  present directors	 will  tender  theirresignation.(3)  Qualification shares in the names of the above proposedDirectors will be transferred by you and the balance of	 theshares will be delivered to us along with the transfer deedsduly signed against payment.(4)  You  may communicate by a circular to the	shareholdersthat you have resigned the managing agency.  You may furthermention in the circular that in accordance with the offer weare  prepared  to take up the deferred shares  held  by	 theshareholders  which may be offered to us at the rate of	 Rs.25 and Rs. 7-8-0 of Madhowji Dharamsi Manufacturing Co. Ltd.and  Sir  Shapurji Broacha Mills  Ltd.	 Mills	respectivelywithin	two months of the date of letter of offer  which  wewould also send."The  assessee  company	accepted  the  modified	 arrangementsuggested  by the Dalmia Company, and on October  19,  1946,the  assessee company wrote to the Dharamsi Company and	 theShapurji  Broacha Company that it had decided to resign	 theoffice	of the managing agency and accordingly tendered	 itsresignation on that date.  The balance of the  considerationmoney was then paid to the assessee company, and it was	 notdisputed that the. value of the managing agency was computedat Rs. 1 crore, nor was there any dispute that the  managingagency	was a capital asset.  Out of the said sum of Rs.   1crore, the Income-tax Officer computed the capital gains  atRs.  81,81,900	and asked the assessee company	to  pay	 taxthereon.  The Appellate Assistant Commissioner held that theassessee company had sold the managing agency and  thereforethe  profits  or gains arising from that sale  were  capitalgains within the meaning of s. 12B of the Act.	The  Income-tax  Appellate	Tribunal, Bombay Bench 'A',  held,  however,that  there was no sale of the managing agency, because	 theoriginal contract of1471146purchase  was  varied by the new contract  embodied  in	 theletter of October 7, 1946.  The Tribunal, however,held as follows:"  The assessee company was the owner of the shares and	 themanaging agencies.  It sold the shares to the Dalmia Co. andhanded back the managing agencies to the managed  companies.This handing back, in our opinion, constitutes a transfer ofthe managing agencies.	"On  that  footing the Tribunal held that s. 12B of  the	 Actapplied.   On  an application by the assessee  company,	 theTribunal on being satisfied that a question of law did ariseout  of	 its  order, referred the  question  which  we	havealready set out in an earlier paragraph of this judgment, tothe  High  Court  of Bombay.  The High	Court  answered	 thequestion  in  the  negative on the  ground  that  there	 wasneither a sale nor a transfer of the managing agency  withinthe meaning of s. 12B of the Act.The  point for our consideration is whether the	 High  Courthas  correctly	answered the question.	We must	 first	readsub-s. (1) of s. 12B of the Act as it stood at the  materialtime.	The  sub-section, so far as it is relevant  for	 ourpurpose, was in these terms:"  The	tax shall be payable by an assessee under  the	head'Capital  gains' in respect of any profits or gains  arisingfrom  the  sale,  exchange or transfer of  a  capital  asseteffected after the 31st day of March 1946; and such  profitsand gains shall be deemed to be income of the previous	yearin which the sale, exchange or transfer took place.  "It  is worthy of note that 'capital gains' were charged	 forthe  first  time by the Income-tax and	Excess	Profits	 Tax(Amendment) Act, 1947, which inserted s. 12B in the Act.  Ittaxed 'capital gains' arising after March 31, 1946, and	 thelevy  was  virtually abolished by the  Indian  Finance	Act,1949,  which  confined	the  operation	of  the	 section  to'capital  gains' arising before April 1, 1948.	The  Finance(No. 3) Act, 1956 (Act 77 of 1956) re-introduced the sectionin  wider  terms so as to bring within 'capital	 gains'	 anyprofits	  or   gains  arising  from  the   sale,   exchange,relinquishment or transfer of a1147capital	 asset effected after March 31, 1956, etc.'  We	 arenot,  however,	concerned  with	 the  question	whether	 thetransaction  under  our consideration, which took  place  in1946, resulted in capital gains within the meaning of s. 12Bas it stands after the enactment of the Finance (No. 3) Act,1956  (Act 77 of 1956).	 The question before us	 is  whetherthe  transaction  under consideration  resulted	 in  capitalgains within the meaning of s. 12B as it originally stood.Two  other points must be stated at the outset in  order  toclear  the  ground  for	 a  consideration  of  the  relevantarguments advanced before us.  The first point is that thereis  no	question  here of the  assessee	 company  trying  tocircumvent   the  provisions  of  s.  12B  of  the  Act	  bydeliberately modifying the original agreement (by its letterdated October 7, 1946) so as to put the transaction  outsidethe  scope of that section.  The agreement was	modified  inOctober,  1946, before even the insertion of s. 12B  in	 theAct.   Therefore,  no question of deliberate  or  fraudulentevasion	 arises in this case.  The second point is  that  inconstruing fiscal statutes and in determining the  liabilityof  a  subject to tax, one must have regard  to	 the  strictletter of the law and the true legal position arising out ofthe  transaction  in question.	The Bombay  High  Court	 hasreferred  to  a large number of English	 decisions  on	thispoint.	  We  consider	it  unnecessary	 to  examine   thosedecisions  in  the present case.  The point  was  consideredvery recently by this Court in A. V. Fernandez v. The  Stateof  Kerala  (1), where the following observations  made	 arevery pertinent:"  If  the Revenue satisfies the Court that the	 case  fallsstrictly  within the provisions of the law, the subject	 canbe  taxed.  If, on the other hand, the case is	not  coveredwithin	the  four corners of the provisions  of	 the  taxingstatute, no tax can be imposed by inference or by analogy orby  trying to probe into the intentions of  the	 legislatureand by considering what was the substance of the matter.  Wemust  of  necessity, therefore, have regard  to	 the  actualprovisions  of the Act and the rules made thereunder  beforewe can come(1)  (1957] S.C.R. 837.to   the  conclusion  that  the	 appellant  was	 liable	  toassessment as contended by the Sales Tax authorities." Thoseobservations were made in a case dealing with sales tax	 butare equally applicable to the case under our consideration.Two  conditions	 must be fulfilled  before  the	 transactionunder  our consideration can come within the purview  of  s.12B of the Act.	 The first condition is that the profits  orgains  must arise from the sale, exchange or transfer  of  acapital	 asset; and the second condition is that  the  sale,exchange or transfer must be effected after March 31,  1946.There  is  no  doubt  that the	transaction  before  us	 waseffected  after	 March 31, 1946.  There is also	 no  disputethat the managing agency of the two mills which the assesseecompany	 held was a capital asset.  Therefore, the  questionboils down to this-did the profits or gains, namely, the sumof  Rs.	 1  crore which was computed as	 the  value  of	 themanaging  agency,  arise from the sale or  transfer  of	 themanaging agency ? The Income-tax authorities held that therewas  a	sale  of  the managing	agency;	 but  the  AppellateTribunal held that there was no sale in the strict sense butonly  a	 transfer  of the managing  agency  to	the  managedcompanies,  that is, the Dharamsi Company and  the  ShapurjiBroacha Company.  The High Court held that there was neithera  sale	 nor a transfer, because the letter  of	 October  7,1946,  substituted  a different contract  for  the  originalcontract  entered  into by the parties, and the	 true  legalposition  with regard to the substituted contract  was	thatthe  assessee company resigned the managing agency,  or,  inother  words,  the managing agency was relinquished  by	 theassessee company.The  learned  Solicitor-General, who has  appeared  for	 theappellant, has contested the correctness of the view of	 theBombay	High  Court  and has submitted	a  twofold  argumentbefore us.  His first argument is that there was a concludedcontract of sale as a result of the letters, dated September14,  1946,  and	 September 30,1946,  exchanged	between	 theparties,  and  the sale having taken place,  the  letter  ofOctober	  7,  1946,  which  merely  changed  the   mode	  ofperformance of the1149contract,  did	not affect the true legal character  of	 the,transaction  which was a sale of the managing	agency.	  Weare  unable to accept this argument.  The true legal  effectof  the letters dated September 14, 1946, and September	 30,1946, which contained an offer and an acceptance, was merelythis:  the  Dalmia Company offered to purchase	(1)  certainshares	in  the two mills and (2) the  managing	 agency,  onpayment of a certain consideration, and the assessee companyaccepted  that offer.  In law, this was merely an  agreementto  sell and purchase the shares together with the  managingagency	on  payment  of the  consideration,  etc.   The	 twoletters did not by themselves amount to a sale of the sharesor  the managing agency, in the sense of a transfer  of	 theproperty  in them.  Before any such sale could	take  place,the agreement was modified by the letter of October 7, 1946,and instead of " selling " the managing agency the  assesseecompany agreed to resign or relinquish the managing  agency.We  are unable to agree with the  learned  Solicitor-Generalthat the letter of October 7, 1946, merely changed the	modeof  performance, and did not constitute a now contract.	  Inour  opinion,  the  Bombay High Court  correctly  held	thatwhereas	 under	the  original contract	the  Dalmia  Companywanted	the managing agency to be transferred,	which  meantthat it wanted the benefit of that contract to be vested  init  and	 was  also  prepared to accept	the  burden  of	 theobligations   that  went  with	that  contract,	 under	 thesubstituted  contract, the Dalmia Company did not  want	 themanaging  agency to be assigned to it; on the  contrary,  itwanted the assessee company to relinquish its rights in	 themanaging  agency of the two mills by resigning.	 On  a	trueinterpretation, the letter of October 7, 1946, substituted anew  contract,	a contract of relinquishment rather  than  acontract  of  sale,  so	 far  as  the  managing	 agency	 wasconcerned.The second argument of the learned Solicitor-General is thatthere  was  one	 indivisible  consideration  for  the  wholetransaction,  including	 the sale of the shares and  of	 themanaging  agency.  So far as the shares were concerned,	 thesale did take place and the entire1150consideration  was paid; there was therefore a	sale  withinthe  meaning  of s. 12B of the Act,  and  the  considerationbeing  one  and indivisible, the transaction did  result  incapital	 gains within the meaning of that section.   At	 thefirst	blush,	the  argument  has  an	apparent  merit	  ofplausibility, though it was not urged before the Bombay HighCourt  in the manner in which it has been urged	 before	 us.On  a closer scrutiny, however, it appears to us  that	thisargument  is not really available to the learned  Solicitor-General.   The	parties	 and  the  Income-tax	authorities,including  the Appellate Tribunal, proceeded on the  footingthat  part of the consideration, namely, the sum of  Rs.   1crore, was the consideration for the sale or  relinquishmentof  the managing agency, the Department contending that	 thetransaction was a sale or transfer and the assessee  companycontending  that it was neither a sale nor a transfer but  amere  relinquishment.  In the agreed statement of the  case,it was stated :"  The	value of the managing agencies was computed  by	 theassessee company at Rs.	 1 crore and there is no dispute  onthis  point.   The  Income-tax	Officer	 thereupon  computedcapital gain at Rs. 81,81,900 and again there is no  disputeon  this  point.   The question which the  Tribunal  had  todetermine  was whether the transactions between	 the  DalmiaCompany and the assessee company resulted in a capital	gainof Rs. 81,81,900.It  is	obvious	 that  the  entire  assessment	 proceedingsproceeded on the basis that the sum of Rs.  1 crore was	 theconsideration for the sale or relinquishment of the managingagencies,  and the dispute between the parties	was  whetherthe transaction with regard to the managing agencies, in itstrue   legal   character,  was	a  sale	  or   transfer	  orrelinquishment.	 That being the position, it is not now opento  the learned Solicitor-General appearing for the  Revenueto go behind the agreed statement of the case and to ask  usto give an answer to the question of law raised in the	caseon  different assumptions or in a different set	 of  circum-stances.  The answer must be given on the basis of1151the  facts  and	 circumstances	as  stated  in	the   agreedstatement of the case.We are of opinion that the answer was correctly given by theHigh  Court  of Bombay.	 The transaction in its	 true  legalcharacter  was a relinquishment of the managing	 agency	 andwas  neither a sale nor a transfer thereof.  Therefore,	 theHigh Court correctly answered, the question in the negative.In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.			      Appeal dismissed.