PETITIONER:THE INDIAN OXYGEN & ACETYLENE CO.,PRIVATE LTD., BOMBAY	Vs.RESPONDENT:ITS WORKMEN & ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:05/05/1959BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, S.K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1114		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2)1002ACT:Industrial  Dispute-Bonnus-Full	 Bench formula,	 if  can  bedisregarded-Rehabilitation,    claim	for-Average    life,calculation of -Method of Weighted Average-Exhausted Assets-whether can be taken into account.HEADNOTE:The workmen claimed bonus for the years 1952-53 and 1953-54.The employers contended that on a proper working1003out  of	 the  Full Bench formula  there	 'was  no  availablesurplus and so no bonus was payable.  The Tribunal held thatthe   formula  was  not	 binding  on  it  and	on   genuineconsiderations	Of social justice it rejected the  claim  ofthe  employers for rehabilitation and awarded bonus  at	 therate  of and I/3 annual basic wages for 1952-53 and  1953-54respectively.	Alternatively,	the Tribunal found  that  incase  the claim for rehabilitation had to be  allowed  therewould  be  no available surplus in either  of  the  relevantyears.Held that, the Tribunal was bound to give effect to the FullBench formula and to allow the employer's claim for  rehabi-litation.A.C.C.	Ltd.,  Bombay v. Their Workmen, [1959]	S.C.R.	925,followed.In the calculations made by the Tribunal on its	 alternativefinding it had acted on correct principles.  It had  rightlytaken  into account the price level prevailing in  1956	 andnot  merely  that prevailing in the two	 bonus	years.	 Theamount of rehabilitation allowed in previous years had to bebrought	 into account if it had not been used up but it	 wasnot shown that had not been in the present case.In calculating the average life of the buildings, machinery,etc., the method of weighted average was scientifically moreaccurate and gave a more accurate and realistic result.	 Therehabilitation	costs of those assets which had spent  theirlives  and  were  exhausted was also  admissible  in  makingcalculations  under the weightage method if in the  relevantyear such assets were in existence and use.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE,  JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal	No.  753  of1957.Appeal	by Special Leave from the Judgment and	Order  datedthe  6th October, 1956, of the Industrial Tribunal,  Bombay,in Reference (I.  T.) Nos. 40 & 44 of 1956.C.   K.	  Daphtary,  Solicitor-General	of  India,   N.	  A.Palkhivala,  J.	 B.  Dadachanji and S. N.  Andley,  for	 theappellant.D.   H. Buch and I. N. Shroff, for respondent No. 1.C.   L. Dudhia and I. N. Shroff, for respondent No. 2.Janardhan Sharma and B. P. Maheshwari, for the Intervener.1959.  May 5. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by1004GAJENDRAGADKAR, J.-This appeal by special leave arises	froma  bonus dispute between the Indian Oxygen & Acetylene	Co.,Private	 Ltd.,	(hereafter  called the	appellant)  and	 itsworkmen, the relevant years for the bonus claim being  1952-53  and	 1953-54.   This claim was made	 separately  by	 theworkmen excluding the members of the clerical staff as	wellas  by the clerical staff and the two claims thus made	werereferred  by the Bombay Government to the Industrial  Tribu-nal  for its adjudication.  The claim raised by the  workmenexcluding  clerical staff was numbered as Ref. (I.  T.)	 No.40  of	1956,  while that made by  the	clerical  staff	 wasnumbered  as Ref. (1.  T.) No. 44 of 1956.  Both  categoriesof workmen will hereafter be described as the respondents inthis judgment.The  appellant is a private limited company incorporated  in1935  and it has its head office at Calcutta.  Its  businessis  to manufacture and sell oxygen and acetylene.  It  is  asubsidiary  of	the British Oxygen Co. Ltd.   It  sells	 itsproducts  to  the hospitals and nursing homes and  in  largequantities  to industrial concerns for welding, cutting	 andblasting operations.  It voluntarily paid bonus equal to twomonths'	 basic wages for both the years in dispute; but	 therespondents  were  not satisfied with the said	payment	 andthey  made a claim for 1/3 of their total earnings  for	 thetwo respective years.  That is bow the dispute arose betweenthe parties.It appears in evidence that all the shares of the  appellant(excepting  two or three held by nominee  shareholders)	 areheld  by  the British Oxygen Co. Ltd.  Evidence	 also  showsthat  the  appellant  has  been	 prospering  and  has	beenexpanding at a rapid rate.  In has capitalised its  reservesin  1940,  1941, 1942, 1945, 1946, 1947 and  1949  with	 theresult	that the major portion of its capital is made up  ofbonus shares.  It has made good profits for the year  endingSeptember 30, 1953, as well as for the year ending September30,  1954.  There is also no doubt that a large	 gap  existsbetween	 the actual wages paid by it to its workmen and	 theliving	 wage.	 It  is	 on  these  allegations	  that	 therespondents  made  a claim for bonus of 1/3 of	their  totalearnings.1005The  appellant pleaded that it was paying good wages to	 therespondents and that under the formula the respondents	werenot entitled to claim any additional bonus for the  relevantyears.	In fact, according to the appellant, if the  formulawas properly worked the bonus already voluntarily paid by itto the respondents could not have been claimed by them.The tribunal has, however, rejected the appellant's case andhas directed it to pay to the respondents bonus at the	rateof 1/4 of the annual basic wages for 1952-53 and 1/3 of	 thesaid  wages  for 1953-54 (less the bonus  already  paid	 forthese years).  It has also directed that in calculating	 theamount	of bonus overtime and dearness and other  allowancesshould be excluded.  This award has been made subject to thetwo  conditions specified by it.  It is the  correctness  ofthis award that is challenged by the appellant before us.The first point which the appellant has urged is against thefinding of the tribunal that it was not bound to give effectto  the	 Full Bench formula.  In determining  the  availablesurplus the Tribunal has taken the view that the formula wasnot  binding  on  it and that on  considerations  of  socialjustice to which it has referred it was open to it to rejectthe  claim  of	the  appellant	for  rehabilitation.	Thisquestion has been considered by us at length in the case  ofA. C. C. Ltd., Bombay v. Their Workmen (1) and we have	heldthat  in dealing with claims for bonus industrial  tribunalsmust give effect to the formula.  We have also indicated howthe  calculations under the formula should be made  in	suchdisputes.   In view of the said decision we must  hold	thatthe  Tribuual was in error is not granting to the  appellantits claim for rehabilitation.According to the calculations made by the Tribunal,  withoutproviding  for any rehabilitation (Ex.	TA) it	has  reachedthe  conclusion	 that the available 'surplus for  the  years1952-53 and 1953-54 respectively would be Rs. 6,14,830/- andRs.  12,16,120/-.   It	is on the basis	 of  this  availablesurplus that the Tribunal has made its award.  However,	 theTribunal has found(1)  [1959] S.C.R. 925.1006alternatively that in case the claim for rehabilitation madeby  the appellant has to be awarded, then there would be  noavailable  surplus  for both the relevant  years.   This  isshown by the calculations made by it under Ex.	TB.  Thus itwould  be clear that on the alternative finding made by	 theTribunal the appellant would be entitled to succeed and	 theaward tinder appeal would have to be set aside.It is, however, urged before us by the respondents that	 thecalculations made by the Tribunal on its alternative findingare  not correct.  In other words, the respondents  seek  tosupport the final award passed by the Tribunal on the groundthat  some  of the conclusions reached by  the	Tribunal  inmaking	its  calculations  on  the  alternative	 basis	 areerroneous.   The  first point which has been  urged  by	 therespondents in this behalf is that the Tribunal was wrong intaking into account the price level prevailing in 1956.	 Theargument is that the price level prevailing in the two bonusyears  alone should have been taken into account.   We	haveconsidered  this  point in A. C. C.'s case (1) and  we	haveheld that it is inexpedient to confine the relevant decisionof the Tribunal solely to the price level prevailing in	 thebonus years.  Therefore the objection that the Tribunal	 hascommitted an error in this matter must be rejected.Then  it  is  urged  that in  making  its  calculations	 thetribunal  has not applied its mind to the fact that,  thoughthe appellant has been allowed substantial amounts by way ofrehabilitation	in  previous awards, those amounts  are	 notbrought	  into	account	 in  considering  its	claims	 forrehabilitation.	  It appears that the tribunal was  inclinedto  take  the  view that once an allowance is  made  to	 theemployer by way of rehabilitation of plant and machinery, itis not open to the tribunal to enquire what he had done withthe  said amount.  In the A. C. C.'s case (1) we  have	heldthat  if  an  amount for rehabilitation	 is  allowed  to  anemployer  and it appears that during the relevant  year	 thesaid  amount was available to him then in  subsequent  yearsthe said amount will have to be taken into account unless itis shown that in the meanwhile(1)  [1959] S.C.R. 925.1007it  had been used for the purpose of rehabilitation.  So  wewould accept the respondents' contention that the  appellantis  bound to take into consideration the  amount  previouslyallowed to it by way of rehabilitation.There is, however, one point which must be borne in mind  inconsidering this plea.	In the previous awards to which	 ourattention  was	drawn  by the respondents, 20%	of  the	 netprofits	 appear to have been awarded to the appellant  on  arough	and   ready   basis,  by  way	of   provision	 forrehabilitation as well as expansion.  It is significant thatthe  award of the said amount expressly refers	to  repairs,replacement, modernization and reasonable expansion.  It  isnow well settled that the employer is not entitled to  claima  prior charge under the formula for any item of  expansionbut  the awards previously passed between the appellant	 andits  workmen seem to have allowed for a claim for  expansionas  a  prior  charge, and that fact  cannot  be	 ignored  indealing with the respondents' present contention.But  apart from this aspect of the matter, it is clear	thatthe  appellant	has  brought into account  one-half  of	 itsgeneral	 reserve as on September 30,1953, and September	 30,1954,  respectively, and these amounts are Rs. 5,51,363	 andRs.  3,95,376.	 In  view of this fact it  is  difficult  toaccept	the  argument  that  the  amounts  allowed  to	 theappellant by way of rehabilitation in the previous years hadnot  been brought into account.	 We would like to  add	thatthis  point had not been taken before the tribunal, and	 maybe  could not be taken before it, because the  tribunal	 hasheld  that  the employer could not be called upon  to  bringinto account the said amount.Then  it  is  urged  that in  working  out  the	 figures  ofrehabilitation	the tribunal was in error in  accepting	 theappellant's  claim.  The award shows that the  tribunal	 wasvery favorably impressed by the evidence given by Mr. Saigaland  Mr. Basak on behalf of the appellant.  It appears	thatin arriving at the average life of the buildings, machinery,etc., Mr. Basak has adopted the method of weighted  average." This method is a development of the concept of the1008ordinary  arithmetic  mean " (1).  Under  this	method,	 "ingeneral terms, a set of quantities 'X' is given, to each  ofwhich is attached a weight 'W', and the weighted  arithmeticmean is obtained as the summation of ' W' x ' X' divided  bythe summation of ' W'''.  There is no doubt that this methodis  scientifically more accurate and gives a  more  accurateand realistic result in determining the average life of	 theassets.	 Let us illustrate this method by taking an  examplegiven by the tribunal itself:Cost of Asset.	Life.	   Annual replacement		     cost required.Rs...				  Rs.5....		1 year		   58....		2 years		   4300..		10 years	   30313..		13 years	   39The  average life calculated by Mr. Basak according  to	 theweighted   average   method  is	 8.02	years,	 while	 thearithmetical average of the figures in column two is 13/3  =4.33  years; this latter is an incorrect estimate,  for	 thesmall items distort the average.  Within two years the firsttwo items will go out and though the remaining machinery  isexpected to last for 8 years more, the arithmetical  averagewould give it a remaining life of 2.33 years.The  respondents  do  not challenge  the  validity  of	thismethod; but they contend that in working out the method somecalculations  have  been made which are open  to  objection.Before	dealing	 with  these objections	 it  may  be  statedgenerally  that when Mr. Saigal and Mr. Basak gave  evidencethey  were  not asked any definite or precise  questions  onwhich  the  objections	urged before us are  based.   It  isdesirable that in enquiries of this kind, when experts	giveevidence  on behalf of the employer, workmen  should  cross-examine	 them  on  all points which they  -propose  to	urgeagainst	 the employer's claim in regard	 to  rehabilitation.However, we would like to deal with the merits(1)  "	Statistics  for Economists " by R.G.D.	Allen,	1949Ed., p. 96.1009of the said contentions in the light of such evidence as  isavailable on the record.The  first  contention is that the assets which	 have  spenttheir  lives and are thus exhausted should not be  continuedin  making  calculations under the weightage  method.	Thisobjection  applies  to such assets as  leasehold  buildings,cars  and trucks.  We are inclined to think that the  methodadopted by the appellant in making its calculations gives  amore  correct picture of the assets actually in use and	 therehabilitation	cost claimed in respect of them.  If in	 therelevant year the asset is in existence and use, a claim forits rehabilitation would not become inadmissible.  The	sameargument  is put in another form and it is urged that  wherean  asset which has come to an end is taken into account  itwould  be wrong to take into account in the same year a	 newasset which has come into existence.  The suggestion is thatby this method a double claim for rehabilitation creeps intothe calculation.  We are not satisfied that even this  argu-ment  is  wellfounded.	 Let us	 examine  this	argument  byreference  to  one item.  The lease-hold  buildings  of	 theappellant  include two buildings known as D. A.	 and  Oxygenrespectively  at Bombay (Ex.  C. 19).  As on  September	 30,1953, the estimated life of these buildings from October  1,1953,  is  shown  to be one year and  the  annual  provisionclaimed	 for rehabilitating them is shown as Rs. 97,468	 andRs. 30,590 respectively.  These claims have not been made inthe  subsequent	 year.	In the same year two  new  buildingscalled	D. A. and Oxygen respectively which were erected  in1952  have  been  included  and	 the  annual  provision	 forrehabilitation	in respect of them is made at Rs. 6,474	 and6,972  respectively.  Now, if the respondents'	argument  isaccepted  and  the calculations made in regard	to  the	 newbuildings  were excluded from the statements, the  appellantwould  apparently  be entitled to claim	 a  somewhat  higheramount.	 It may be mentioned that in working out the figuresfor  rehabilitation in respect of new -buildings Ex.  C.  IIhas included this item of Rs. 13,000 and odd in the larger1271010item of Rs. 4,58,316 mentioned against uncovered requirementfor  rehabilitation and replacement in the year, whereas  indeducting Rs. 2,31,700 by way of normal depreciation for thesaid year an amount of Its. 22,000 and odd has been taken tobe the normal depreciation in respect of the new  buildings;that  is  to say, as against a claim of Rs. 13,000  and	 oddmade for rehabilitation in respect of the said two buildingsin Ex.	C. 19, a deduction by way of normal depreciation hasbeen allowed to the extent of Rs. 22,000 and odd.  Thereforeit  does not appear on the evidence as it stands,  that	 themethod	adopted by the appellant in making its	calculationshas  introduced	 any  serious  infirmity  or  has  given   adistorted   or	inflated  claim	 about	the  provision	 forrehabilitation.In this connection it is relevant to refer to the fact	thatthe  calculations  made by the appellant are based  upon  anitem-wise  study  of  its plant and machinery,	and  such  amethod,	  it  is  conceded,  is	 bound	to  lead   to	moresatisfactory  results.	Mr. Basak produced Exs.	 C. I to  C.16  which  contained all the relevant  calculations  and  hestated	in  cross-examination that as a matter	of  businesspractice  a  businessman  has  to  think  of  replacing	 hismachines  even	though	they may have  been  bought  in	 therelevant  year.	  Of course, in considering  the  claim	 forrehabilitation	in  respect of such an item  the  multiplierwould  normally	 be I and the divisor  would  represent	 thetotal  future life of the said machines.  In regard  to	 theexhausted  assets  the Witness stated that if they  are	 notincluded in the schedule the final result on Exs.  C. 11 andC.  12	would be incorrect because in these  statements	 thetotal  depreciation provided up to the opening of  the	yearhas  been  deducted  and  this	sum  includes  proportionatedepreciation  also on the assets referred to.  He  has	alsoadded that the total value of all fixed assets shown in Exs.C. 11 and C. 12 " have got to agree with the values shown inthe  balance-sbects "; and he claimed that " his  method  ofcalculating weighted average of the remaining life of assetsis  the most correct that can be employed ".  Similarly	 Mr.Saigal was cross-examined about the Bangalore plant which1011had been installed in 1946.  He stated that theoretically itshould	have  a life till 1968 but in effect the  plant	 hadbecome so unreliable that they had to instal new one and  tokeep  the old one as a standby.	 According to  this  witnessactually the life of the machinery enumerated in Ex.  C.  20works  out  to	less than 22 years  but	 for  simplicity  inaccounting  he	had taken the figure to be 22.	As  we	havealready	 mentioned  the	 tribunal took	the  view  that	 theevidence( given by the appellant's witnesses in the  presentproceedings  was satisfactory and we do not think  that	 anymaterial  has  been brought out in  cross-examination  whichwould justify the respondents' contention that the  tribunalhad  not  properly appreciated the said	 evidence.   In	 theresult we hold that the respondents have failed to show thatany of the conclusions reached by the tribunal in making itscalculations under its alternative findidg are wrong.The appeal accordingly succeeds and must be allowed and	 theaward passed by the tribunal must be set aside.	 In view  ofthe  fact that the principal point raised by the appeal	 wasone of some importance and it has been argued in a group  ofappeals	 before	 us, we think that the parties	should	beartheir own costs.Appeal allowed.1012