PETITIONER:THE BHARATKHAND TEXTILE MFG.  CO.  LTD.& OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE TEXTILE LABOUR ASSOCIATION,AHMEDABAD.DATE OF JUDGMENT:17/03/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1960 AIR  833		  1960 SCR  (3) 329 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1962 SC 673	 (2) R	    1963 SC 495	 (5) C	    1963 SC1721	 (4,5) RF	    1964 SC 864	 (25) E	    1966 SC1253	 (6) R	    1970 SC 919	 (14,26,28) RF	    1972 SC 343	 (22) R	    1980 SC  31	 (19,22)ACT:Industrial  Dispute--Claim  of	gratuity   by	workmen	  intextile	 industry--Framing  of	scheme	in  modification  ofPrevious  award	 Validity--Gratuity,  if in  the  nature  ofprofit	bonus--Applicability of Full Bench formula--Duty  ofIndustrial  Court--Bombay  Industrial  Relations  Act,	1946(Bom.  XI of 1947), s. 116A--Employees Provident Funds	Act,1952 (XIX of 1952), s. 17.HEADNOTE: This  was an appeal by certain textile mills  of  Ahmedabadagainst	 a  scheme for gratuity awarded	 by  the  IndustrialCourt.	 The  Labour  Association, the	respondent,  gave  anotice	of  change under s. 42(2) of the  Bombay  IndustrialRelations Act, 1946 (Bom.  XI of 1947), intimating the	MillOwners'	 Association that they wanted a scheme for  gratuityand  mentioned four categories of termination of service  inthe  annexure.	This demand was refused and so	referred  tothe  Industrial Court under s. 73A of the Act.	Pending	 thereference  the Employees' Provident Funds Act, 1952  (19  of1952),	came into operation and the Industrial Court, on  anobjection by the Mill Owners' Association, held that it	 wasinadvisable  to proceed with the reference and that a  freshapplication  should be made, if necessary, after the  schemeenvisaged  by  the  Act	 is  introduced	 and  rejected	 therespondent's  demand.  Thereafter a fresh notice  of  changewas   given  by	 the  respondent  and  there  were   certainreferences to the Industrial Court in respect of the demand.The parties came to an agreement to refer all their disputesto  arbitration,  the  references  were	 withdrawn  and	 thedisputes were referred to the Board of Arbitrators.   Beforethe  Board the Mill Owners' Association took  the  objectionthat so long as the award of the Industrial Court dismissingthe  earlier  reference subsisted, the	claim  for  gratuitycould not be considered by it.	That objection was upheld bythe Board and it made no provision for gratuity.   Thereuponthe  respondent	 applied for the modification of  the  awardunder  s. 116A of the Act, and the Industrial Court  by	 itsaward,	which is the subject matter of the  present  appeal,framed	a  scheme  for gratuity	 on  an	 industry-cum-regionbasis:Held, that the decision of the Industrial Court was  correctand must be upheld.Regard being had to the true nature of its earlier award andthe scope of the application for its modification, it  couldnot  be	 said that the respondent was seeking to  alter	 theframework or change any of the principles of that award	 andthe application under s.  116A of the Act must be held to becompetent.330A scheme for gratuity is by its nature an integrated  schemeand  covers  all  classes of termination  of  service  wheregratuity benefit can be legitimately claimed and the refusalof  the Industrial Court in the earlier award amounted to  arefusal to frame any scheme at all.The  statutory	provident  fund created	 by  the  Employees'Provident   Funds  Act,	 1952,	could  be  no  bar  to	 therespondent's claim for a gratuity scheme although there	 canbe no doubt that in awarding such a scheme Industrial Courtsmust make due allowance for it.	 Provisions of s. 17 of	 thesaid Act clearly indicate that the statutory benefits  underthe Act are the minimum to which the employees are  entitledand  that they are no bar to additional benefits claimed  bythe employees.Indian Hume Pipe Co. Ltd. v. Their Workmen, [1960] 2  S.C.R.32, referred to.It  was not correct to say that the claim for  gratuity	 wasessentially  similar  to a claim for profit bonus  and	mustalways be considered on unitwise basis.The  benefit  of  gratuity is in the  nature  of  a  retiralbenefit	  and  before  framing	such  a	 scheme	  industrialadjudication has to, take into account such relevant factorsas  the	 financial condition of the  employer,	his  profit-making capacity, the profits earned by him in the past,	 theextent	of his reserves and the chances of his	replenishingthem as well as the claims for capital invested by him,	 andin evolving a long term scheme a long view of the employer'sfinancial condition should be taken and on that basis  alonethe feasibility of a scheme and the extent of the benefit tobe given should be determined.Arthur	Butler	& Co. (Muzaffarpur) Ltd. and  Arthur  ButlerWorkers	 Union, (1952) 11 L.L.J. 29 and Boots Pure Drug	 CO.(India) Ltd. v. Their Workmen, (1956) 1 L.L.J. 293, referredto.Even assuming that gratuity is no part of deferred wage,  itwould  not  be	reasonable  to	assimilate  the	 scheme	 forgratuity to that of profit bonus or to apply the  principlesof the Full Bench formula applicable to the latter.  A claimfor  gratuity is strictly not a claim to receive a share  ofthe profits at all.Express	 Newspapers  (Private) Ltd. v. The Union  of  India,[1959]	S.C.R. 12 and Indian Oxygen and Acetylene  Co.	Ltd.Employees'  Union v. Indian Oxygen and Acetylene  Co.  Ltd.,(1956) 1 L.L.J. 435, referred to.It  was	 not correct to say that an industry-wise  basis  iswholly	inappropriate in dealing with gratuity or  that	 theIndustrial  Court  was	in error  in  adopting	that  basis.Although  some hardship to the weaker units in the  industrymay not be avoided, there were several factors in its favourboth from the point of view of employers and employees.Since  in the present state of economic development  in	 thecountry the propriety of the adoption of an all-India  basisfor  a scheme of gratuity may be open to doubt no  exceptioncan  on principle be taken to the industry-cum-region  basisadopted in the instant case.331Express	 Newspapers  (Private) Ltd. v. The Union  of  India,[1959] S.C.R. 12, applied.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 1 of 1959.Appeal	by special leave from the award dated September	 16,1957, of the Industrial Court, Bombay, in Misc.	 Application(IC) No. 20 of 1957.M. C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, I. M.  Nanavati,S.  N.	Andley, J. B. Dadachanji, Rameshwar Nath and  P.  L.Vohra, for the appellants.C.   K.	 Daphtary,  Solicitor-General  of India,  B.  R.  L.Iyengar	  and K. L. Hathi, for the respondent.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, H. J.  Umrigarand R. H. Dhebar, for the Intervener.1960.  March 17.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR, J.-This appeal by special leave is  directedagainst the award passed by the Industrial Court, Bombay, bywhich a scheme for gratuity has been framed in favour of theworkmen	 represented  by  the  respondent,  Textile   LabourAssociation,  Ahmedabad,  who are employed  by	the  textilemills  in  Ahmedabad including the  twenty  appellant  millsbefore us.  In order to appreciate the points of law  raisedby the appellants in the present appeal we ought to state atthe outset the material facts leading to the present disputein  which the impugned scheme for gratuity has been  framed.On June 13, 1950, the respondent gave notice under s.  42(2)of  the Bombay Industrial Relations Act, 1946 (Bom.   XI  of1947)  (hereinafter called the Act), intimating to the	MillOwners'	 Association  at Ahmedabad (hereinafter	 called	 theAssociation)  that it desired a change as specified  in	 theannexure to the communication.	The annexure showed that therespondent  wanted  a change in that a scheme  for  gratuityshould	be  framed  wherever services  of  an  employee	 areterminated  by the mills on grounds of old-age,	 invalidity,'incapacity  or natural death.	It was further claimed	thatthe  payment of gratuity in the said cases should be at	 therate of one month's wages (including dearness allowance) perevery year of service.	Some incidental demands	 were	alsospecified in the annexure.  The332demand thus made was not accepted by the Association, and soit  was	 referred  to the  Industrial  Court.	Pending	 thereference  the Employees' Provident Funds Act, 1952  (19  of1952),	came  into operation on March 4, 1952,	and  it	 wasurged	before	the  Industrial	 Court	on  behalf  of	 theAssociation  that  since the statutory scheme  of  providentfund would soon become compulsory it would not be  advisableto adjudicate upon the respondent's claim for the  specifieditems of gratuity at that stage.  This argument was acceptedby the Industrial Court; it held that when the scheme  envi-saged  by the new Act is introduced it would be possible  tosee from what date it would be operative, and that, if afterthe  introduction  of  the said scheme it be  found  that  asufficient  margin  is left, it would then be  open  to	 therespondent  and the Association to make a fresh	 applicationfor  the institution of a gratuity fund either for  all	 theemployees or for the benefit of such of them as will have toretire	within	the next few years.  It was on	this  groundthat the demand made by the respondent was rejected on April18, 1952.It  appears that the prescribed scheme under  the  ProvidentFunds  Act came into operation on October 1, 1952.  In	June1955,  a fresh notice of change was given by the  respondentto  all the mills in respect of the demand for gratuity	 andthe  said  demand  became  the	subject-matter	of   certainreferences to the Industrial Court at Bombay under s. 73A ofthe  Act.  At that time the association and  the  respondenthad entered into an agreement to refer all their disputes toarbitration,  and in accordance with the spirit of the	saidagreement the references pending before the Industrial Courtin  respect of gratuity were withdrawn and referred  to	 theBoard  of  Arbitrators.	 Before the Board it  was,  however,urged  by the Association that, so long as the award  passedby  the	 Industrial  Court  on	the  earlier  reference	 wassubsisting and in operation, a claim for gratuity which	 wasthe subject-matter of the said reference and award could notbe  properly  or  validly considered  by  the  Board.	Thisobjection  was	upheld	by  the Board, and  so	it  made  noprovision  for	gratuity.   The decision  of  the  Board  ofArbitrators  in the said proceedings was published  on	July25, 1957.333After the said decision was made and before it was publishedthe respondent made the present application for modificationof  the	 earlier award under s. 116A of the Act on  July  6,1957.  In this application the respondent alleged that therewas  sufficient	 justification for  modifying  the  previousaward and for introducing a scheme of gratuity as claimed byit.   In this application a demand for gratuity was made  onthe following lines:-(1)  In the case of	      One month's basic wages and     death while in	      average Dearness Allow-     service or becom-	      ance per completed year of     ing physically or	      service.     mentally unfit for     further service :(2)  On voluntary re-	       After 10 continuous years of     tirement or re-	       service in the company     signation of an	       same as in (1)    employee :(3)  On termination	       For less than 10 but moreof service by the	       than 7 years at 3/4 rate ofcompany:		       (1), For less than 7 years			       but 5 years or more than 5			       years at the 1/2 rate of (1)			       For more than 10 years'			       continuous service as in				(1) above.It  appears  that  in the application  thus  made  a  typingmistake had crept in which failed to type properly the thirdcategory  of  cases.  The respondent applied on	 August	 21,1657, for amendment of the said typing mistake and the	saidamendment  was naturally allowed.  It is the demand made  bythis  application that is the subject-matter of the  presentproceedings under s. 116A of the Act.In  the present proceedings the Association did not  file  awritten	 statement and in fact withdrew leaving it  open  toeach  mill to file a separate written statement of its	own.It  appears that there was a difference of  opinion  amongstthe  constituents of the Association.	Accordingly  writtenstatements were filed on43334behalf of the 65 constituent mills and the large majority ofthe   said  written  statements	 raised	  some	 preliminaryobjections against the competence of the present proceedingsand disputed the respondent's claim for gratuity also on themerits.	   The	industrial  Court  has	overruled  all	 thepreliminary  objections	 and on the merits it has  framed  ascheme	for  gratuity on   industry-cum-region	basis.	 Theaward  framing the said scheme was pronounced  on  September16,  1957.  It is against this award that 21 out of  the  65mills have come to this Court by special leave.	 One of	 theappellant  mills has subsequently withdrawn from the  appealwith  the result that out of 65 mills 45 mills do  not	feelaggrieved by the award but 20 mills do; and the	 contentionsraised by them fall to be considered in the present appeal.Before	dealing with the merits of the points raised by	 theappellants it would be relevant to refer very briefly to therelevant provisions of the Act.	 The Act has been passed  bythe  Bombay  Legislature because it thought that  "  it	 wasexpedient to provide for. the regulation of the relations ofemployers  and employees in certain matters, to	 consolidateand  amend the law relating to the settlement of  industrialdisputes  and to provide for certain other purposes ".	Withthis  object the Act has made elaborate provisions  for	 theregulation  of industrial relationships and for	 the  speedydisposal of industrial disputes.  An " industrial dispute  "under  s. 3, sub-s. (17), means "any dispute  or  differencebetween	 an employer and employer, or between employers	 andemployees,  or between employees and employees and which  isconnected  with	 any industrial matter ". The  expression  "industrial matter   has	 been inclusively defined in a	verywide sense.    Approved	 Union " in s. 3(2) means " a  unionon the	  approved list " " primary union " under s.   3(28)means  "a union for the time being registered as  a  primaryunion under the Act registered union " under s. 3(30)  means" a union registered under the Act ", while " representativeunion  "under  s. 3(33) means " a union for the	 time  beingregistered  as	a  representative  union  under	 the  Act.".Section 3(39) defines " wages " as meaning " remuneration ofall335kinds  capable	of  being expressed in terms  of  money	 andpayable to an employee in respect of his employment or	workdone  in  such	employment, and includes,  inter  alia,	 anygratuity  payable  on discharge ". Section 42,	sub-s.	(2),provides that an employee desiring a change in respect of anindustrial  matter not specified in Schedule I or  II  shallgive  notice in the prescribed form to the employer  throughthe  representative of employees but shall forward a copy ofthe  same to the Chief Conciliator, the Conciliator  of	 theindustry  concerned for the local area, the  Registrar,	 theLabour Officer, and such other person as may be	 prescribed.Section 66(1) provides, inter alia, that if an employer	 anda  representative union or aNy other registered union  whichis  the	 representative	 of  the  employees  by	 a   writtenagreement  agree to submit any present or future  industrialdispute or class of such disputes to the arbitration of	 anyperson,	 whether such arbitrator is named in such  agreementor not, such agreement shall be called submission.  We	havealready noticed that the Association and the respondent	 hadentered	 into  a submission in respect of  several  disputeswhich  were referred to the Board of  Arbitrators.   Section73A is important for our purpose; it deals with reference toarbitration  by unions, and provides that "  notwithstandinganything contained in this Act, a registered union which  isa representative of employees, and which is also an approvedunion,	may refer any industrial dispute for arbitration  tothe industrial court subject to the proviso prescribed underit."  It is under s. 73A that the reference was made on	 theearlier	 occasion to adjudicate upon the respondent's  claimfor a gratuity as specified in its notice of change.That  takes us to ss. 116 and 116A.  Section  116  provides,inter  alia, for the period during which an award  would  bebinding Section 116(1) lays down in regard to an award	thatit shall cease to have effect on the date specified therein,and  if	 no  such date is specified, on the  expiry  of	 theperiod	of  two	 months from the date  on  which  notice  inwriting	 to  terminate	such  an  award	 is  given  in	 theprescribed manner by any of the parties thereto to the otherparty, provided336that no such notice shall be given till the expiry of  threemonths after the award comes into operation; in other words,the  award  cannot be terminated at least for  three  monthsafter  it  has	come into operation; thereafter	 it  may  beterminated as prescribed by s. 116(1).	With the rest of theprovisions  of	s. 116 we are not concerned in	the  presentappeal.	  SeCtion 116A(1) prescribes, inter alia,  that	 anyparty who under the provisions of s. 116 is entitled to givenotice	of  termination of an award may, instead  of  givingsuch notice, apply after the expiry of the period  specifiedin  sub-s. (2) to the industrial court making the award	 forits  modification.  It is unnecessary to set out  the  otherprovisions of s. 116A.	The award under appeal has been madeby  the	 industrial  court on the application  made  by	 therespondent under s. 11 6A.The  first  contention	raised	before	us  by	the  learnedAttorney-General  on  behalf of the appellant  is  that	 theapplication for modification made by the respondent under s.116A  is incompetent, because what the respondent  seeks  isnot   any  modification	 of  the  earlier  award  which	  ispermissible under s. 116A, but a reversal and a revision  ofthe  said  award  which is not permissible  under  the	saidsection.   The expression " modification of the award "	 mayinclude alteration in the details of the award or any  othersubsidiary  incidental matters.	 In this connection it	mustbe borne in mind that there is a radical difference  betweenthe meaning of the word " change " as distinguished from themeaning of the word " modification ". Section 116(2)  allowsfor  a change or modification of the  registered  agreement,settlement  or	award in terms of the  agreement,  and	thatclearly	 brings out the difference between the two  conceptsof  " change " and " modification ". In cases falling  unders.  116(2)  the	 agreements or	settlements  can  be  whollyrevoked	 and  fresh  ones  substituted	in  their  place  byconsent, or by consent they may be modified in subsidiary orincidental details.  Where the Legislature wanted to providefor  change it has expressly done so in s. 116(2)  by  usingboth the words " changed " or " modified337Section	 116A, however, is confined only to modification  ofthe award and not its change.The  same  argument  is	 placed	 in  another  form.   It  iscontended  that it was not the intention of the	 Legislatureto permit the proceedings under s. 116A for change of policyunderlying  the	 Award or its essential framework.   Such  aresult	can be achieved only by terminating the award  unders.  116(1) and raising an industrial dispute as provided  bythe  Act.  In support of this contention reliance  has	beenplaced on the observations made by Mukherjea, J., as he thenwas,  in the case of Be: Delhi Laws Act, 1912(1)  where	 thelearned	  judge	 stated	 that  "  the  word   'modification'occurring  in  s. 7 of the Delhi Laws Act did  not  mean  orinvolve any change of policy but was confined to  alterationof such a character which keeps the policy of the Act intactand  introduces	 such changes as are  appropriate  to  localconditions  of	which the executive government is  made	 thejudge ". In the same case Bose, J. observed that "the  powerto  restrict  and modify does not import the power  to	makeessential changes ".On  the	 other	hand,  the  learned  Solicitor-General	 hascontended that the context in which the word ` modification'has  been used in s. 116A does not justify tne	adoption  ofthe  limited  meaning of the word " modify " for  which	 theappellants  contend.  The policy of the Act and	 the  reasonwhy  s.	 116A  has  been  enacted  show	 that  the  word   "modification  "	 has been used in a sense  larger  than	 itsordinary   meaning.   The  Legislature	realised  that	 theprocedure prescribed by s. 116, sub-s. (1), for	 terminatingthe award which necessitates the other subsequent steps	 wasapt  to be dilatory and involved and so it has purported  toprovide	 for an effective alternative speedy remedy for	 thechange	of  the	 award under s. 116A.  In  support  of	thisargument reliance has been placed on the meaning assigned tothe  word " modified " in " Words and Phrases " where it  isstated that " though one of the primary meanings of the word`  modify'  is no doubt ` to limit' or ` restrict  'it	alsomeans  'to  vary', and there is authority that it  may	evenmean 'to extend' or 'enlarge "' (2).(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 747, 1006.(2)  " Words and Phrases" by Roland Burrows, Vol. 3. P. 399.338It is common ground that the modification permissible  unders. 116A does not mean that the provisions of the award	mustalways	 be  reduced;  it  may	mean  even  increasing	 theprovisions,  and so it is urged by the respondent  that	 theword "modification" should receive a wider denotation in thecontext	 of  s. 116A.  This construction no  doubt  receivessome support from the provision of s. 116A that a party	 mayapply  for the modification of the award instead  of  givingnotice	for its termination; and the latter clause tends  toshow  that the procedure prescribed by s. 116A is an  alter-native	 to  the  procedure  prescribed	 by  s.	 116.	 Theindustrial  court  was apparently inclined to  put  a  widerdenotation on the word " modification " used in s. 116A.We  do	not  think it is necessary  to	decide	this  largerquestion  of  the construction of s. 116A  because,  in	 ouropinion, in the present case, even if the limited and narrowconstruction suggested by the appellant is put on the word "modification ", the respondent's application cannot be	saidto be outside the purview of the said section.	There is  nodoubt that the claim for gratuity made by the respondent  inthe earlier proceedings has been rejected by the industrial.court and that is an award; but, whether or not the  presentapplication  seeks  for	 a modification of  the	 said  awardwithin	the  meaning  of s. 116A would depend  on  what	 theindustrial court had decided on the earlier occasion.  It isclear  that the industrial court did not then  consider	 themerits	of  the claim at all.  It upheld  the  Association'scontention  that the matter should not be decided  then	 butmay  be	 considered  later  in view of	the  fact  that	 theEmployees'  Provident Funds Act had already been passed	 andthe  statutory scheme for provident funds was about to	comeinto force.  It was on this ground alone that the industrialcourt rejected the claim as it was then made but it took theprecaution  of expressly adding that after the	introductionof  the provident funds scheme it would be open to the	res-pondent	 or the Association to make a fresh application	 forthe institution of a gratuity fund as it may deem  expedientto  claim.   It	 would not be  unreasonable,  we  think,  toassume, that when liberty was thus reserved339to  the parties to make a fresh application  the  industrialcourt  had  presumably s. 116A in mind.	 In  substance,	 theeffect of the order then passed was that the application wasregarded  as  premature	 and liberty  was  reserved  to	 theparties to renew the application if the statutory scheme wasthought	 to be insufficient or unsatisfactory by  either  ofthem.	In  such a case, if the respondent  applies  to	 theindustrial  court  for	modification  of  its  award  it  isdifficult  to accept the argument that the respondent  seeksto  alter  the	framework  of the award	 or  to	 change	 anyprinciple  decided in the award.  The true position is	thatby  the	 present application the respondent  is	 asking	 thecourt  to consider the demand now that the scheme  has	comeinto force and is, according to the respondent, insufficientto meet the workmen's grievance.  What the industrial  courtthen  promised to consider after the scheme came into  forceis brought before it for its decision again.  That being thetrue  nature of the award and the true scope of	 the  prayermade  by  the respondent in its present	 application  it  isdifficult to hold that the application is incompetent unders. 116A.The next argument which is pressed before us by the  learnedAttorney-General  is- that the application for	modificationis  incompetent	 in  regard to matters not  covered  in	 theearlier	 proceeding.  We have already referred to the  itemscovered	 in the earlier proceedings as well as	those  whichare  the subject matter of the present application.   It  istrue  that the notice served by the respondent prior to	 theearlier	 reference  specifically  set  out  the	 claim	 forgratuity  in  four  categories of cases	 of  termination  ofservices   of	the  employees,	 whereas  in   the   presentproceedings   some  other  categories  are  included.	 Theobjection  raised  against  the competence  of	the  presentapplication  purports to treat the earlier notice in a	verytechnical way and confines the subsequent proceedings  takenbefore	the  industrial court to the  said  four  categoriesonly.	The  argument is that the cases	 of  termination  ofservices  which	 were not specified in	the  earlier  noticecannot now be brought before the industrial court tinder theguise of the modification of the award.340If  the	 modification of the award can be claimed  under  s.116A  it  must be claimed only in regard to  the  said	fourcategories and no more.	 This argument has been rejected  bythe industrial court, and it has been held that in substancethe  earlier  notice should be construed as  constituting  aclaim  for the scheme of gratuity in general.  The  validityof  this  conclusion has been seriously	 challenged  by	 theappellant.There  is  no doubt that disputes in  regard  to  industrialmatters not covered by an award do not fall within the scopeof  s. 116 of the Act; and so if the claim for	gratuity  inregard to categories not specified in the earlier notice  isdeemed	to  be	outside the said  notice  and  the  relevantreference  proceedings,	 could the respondent  have  made  aclaim  in  that behalf and ask for  industrial	adjudicationwithout	 terminating the award?	 It is difficult  to  answerthis  question in the affirmative.  It is well-known that  ascheme	for gratuity is an integrated scheme and  it  coversall  classes  of termination of service	 in  which  gratuitybenefit	 can be legitimately claimed.  Therefore,  when	 theindustrial  court  refused to' frame a	gratuity  scheme  inregard	to  the	 four categories brought before	 it  on	 theearlier	 occasion,  in substance its refusal amounted  to  arejection of any scheme for gratuity at all; otherwise it isvery difficult to assume that having rejected the claim	 forgratuity  in  respect of the said four categories  it  wouldstill  have  entertained a claim for gratuity on  behalf  ofother  categories not included therein.	 That is why we	 areinclined  to think that though in form the rejection of	 thedemand for gratuity on the earlier occasion was in regard tothe  four categories specified in the notice, in  effect  itwas  rejection in regard to the claim for a gratuity  schemeitself.It  cannot be disputed that if the earlier demand  had	beenfor a gratuity scheme pure and simple and no categories	 hadbeen   specified   in  connection  therewith   the   presentapplication for the modification of the award coupled with aclaim for a gratuity scheme in respect of all the categoriesspecified in the application would be within the purview  ofs.  116 of the Act.  That in substance is what has  happenedin this case341according  to  the finding of the industrial court  on	thispoint,	and  having regard to the unusual  circumstances  ofthis case we see no reason to interfere with it.Then it is urged that the industrial court has erred in	 lawin  framing  a	gratuity scheme even  though  the  statutoryscheme under the Employees' Provident Funds Act has been  inoperation since 1952.  The provident fund guaranteed by	 thestatute	  under	 the	statutory  scheme  is  one   kind ofretirement benefit and since this retirement benefit is	 nowavailable  to the workmen it was not open to the  industrialcourt to provide an additional gratuity scheme; that in sub-stance	 is  the  contention.	This  contention  has	beenfrequently raised before the industrial courts and has	beengenerally rejected.  The Employees' Provident Funds Act	 hasno doubt been passed for the institution of provident  fundsfor  employees covered by it; and the statutory	 scheme	 forprovident funds is intended to afford to the employees	somesort of a retirement benefit; but it cannot be ignored	thatwhat the statute has prescribed in the scheme is the minimumto  which, according to the Legislature, the  employees	 areentitled;  and so in all cases where the  industrial  courtsare  satisfied	that  a larger and  higher  benefit  can  beafforded to the employees no bar can be pleaded by virtue ofthe Provident Funds Act. it is true that after the Act	cameinto force, the industrial courts would undoubtedly have  tobear  in mind the benefit of the statutory scheme  to  whichthe employees may be entitled; and it is only after  bearingthat factor in mind and making due allowance for it that anyadditional  scheme  for gratuity can and must be  framed  bythem; but it is not open to an employer to contend that	 theAct excludes the jurisdiction of industrial courts to  framean additional scheme.In this connection it may be pertinent to point out that  s.17  of	the  Employees' Provident  Funds  Act  empowers	 theappropriate  government to exempt from the operation of	 allor  any	 of  the  provisions  of  the  statutory  scheme  toestablishments	as specified in s. 17(1)(a) and (b).   Unders. 17(1)(b), for instance, any establishment may apply,	 forexemption  if its employees are in enjoyment of benefits  inthe nature of44342provident fund, pension or gratuity which, in the opinion ofthe  appropriate  government,  are on  the  whole  not	lessfavourable  to	such employees than  the  benefits  providedunder the Act or any scheme in relation to employees in	 anyother  establishment of a similar characters This  provisionbrings	out  two  points  very	clearly.   If  the  benefitsprovided  by the employer are not less favourable  than	 thestatutory  benefits  he	 may apply  for	 exemption  and	 theappropriate government may grant him such exemption.  If, onthe  other  hand,  the benefits conferred by  him  are	lessfavourable  than  the  statutory  benefits  he	may  not  beentitled  to any exemption, in which case both the  benefitswould  be  available  to the  employees.   These  provisionsclearly	 indicate that the statutory benefits which  in	 theopinion	 of  the Legislature are the minimum  to  which	 theemployees  are	entitled, cannot create a  bar	against	 theemployees'.   claim  for  additional  benefits	from   theiremployers.  In this connection we may incidentally refer  tothe  decision of this Court in the case of Indian Hume	PipeCo.  Ltd. v. The Workmen (1) where this Court has held	thatthe  statutory	provision for the  payment  of	retrenchmentcompensation under s. 25F is no bar to a claim for gratuity.The  argument urged that the statutory retrenchment  partookthe character of gratuity and thus constituted a bar for theadditional  claim  for	gratuity  was  rejected.   We	mustaccordingly  hold  that the Industrial Court  was  right  inrejecting  the	appellants' contention	that  the  statutoryprovision for provident fund under the Employees'  ProvidentFunds  Act  is	a bar to the present claim  for	 a  gratuityscheme.The   learned  Attorney-General	 has  then  challenged	 thevalidity  of  the scheme on the ground that  the  IndustrialCourt was in error in dealing with the problem on  industry-wise  rather  than unit-wise basis.  He	 contends  that	 theclaim  for gratuity is more allied to a claim for bonus	 andmust,  therefore, be dealt with on unit-wise basis.   It  isnot  disputed that the benefit of gratuity is in the  natureof  retiral  benefit and there can be no doubt	that  beforeframing a scheme for gratuity industrial adjudication has totake into(1)  [1960] 2 S.C.R. 32.343account	 several relevant facts; the financial condition  ofthe employer, his profit-making capacity, the profits earnedby  him	 in  the past, the extent of his  reserves  and	 thechances	 of his replenishing them as well as the claims	 forcapital	  invested   by	 him,  these  and   other   materialconsiderations	may have to be borne in mind in	 determiningthe terms of the gratuity scheme.  This position has  alwaysbeen recognised by industrial courts (Vide: Arthur Butler  &Co. (Muzaffarpur) Ltd. And Arthur Butler Workers' Union (1).It appears also to be well recognised that though the  grantof a claim for gratuity must depend upon the capacity of theemployer  to stand the burden on a long-term basis it  wouldnot  be	 permissible to place undue emphasis either  on	 thetemporary  prosperity  or  the temporary  adversity  of	 theemployer.   In evolving a long-term scheme a long-term	viewhas to be taken of the employer's financial condition and itis  on such a basis alone that the question as to whether  ascheme	should	be framed or nit must be decided, and  if  ascheme has to be framed the extent of the benefit should  bedetermined  (Vide:  Boots Pure Drug Co.	 (India)  Ltd.	 AndTheir Workmen (2)  For our present purpose it is  really notnecessary to embark upon the academic question as to whethergratuity  is a part of deferred wage or not; we will  assumethat  it  is  not.  Even so it would not  be  reasonable  toassimilate the character of the scheme for gratuity to	thatof  a profit bonus and to seek to import the  considerationsof the Full Bench formula which governs the grant of  bonus.A claim for profit bonus is based on the assumption that theemployees contribute at least partially to the profits	madeby  the	 employer and that they are entitled to	 ask  for  ashare  in  the	said profits in order  to  bridge  the	gulfbetween	 the  wages actually received by them and  a  livingwage  to  which they are ultimately entitled.  A  claim	 forgratuity  is a claim for retiral benefit and it is  strictlynot a claim to receive a share of the profits at all; and sothere	would  be  no  scope  for  importing   the   severalconsiderations	which are relevant in determining the  claimfor  profit  bonus.  That is the view taken  by	 the  LabourAppellate Tribunal in Indian(1) [1952] 11 L.L.J. 29.     (2) [1956] 1 L.L.J. 293.344Oxygen	and Acetylene Co. Ltd.	Employees' Union And  IndianOxygen and, Acetylene Co. Ltd. (1) and the said decision hasbeen cited with approval by this Court in Express Newspapers(Private) Ltd. v. The Union of India (2 ). Therefore, we arenot  prepared  to  accept the argument that  the  claim	 forgratuity is essentially similar to a claim for profit bonus,and like profit bonus it must always be considered on  unit-wise  basis.  Incidentally we may add that even a claim	 forprofit	bonus  can  and often is  settled  on  industry-wisebasis.That  still  leaves  the larger question  to  be  consideredwhether	 the industrial court was in error in  dealing	withthe claim for gratuity on industry-wise basis.	It is urged-for  the  appellants that an industry-wise basis  is  whollyinappropriate  in  dealing with gratuity and it	 should	 nothave  been  adopted  by the industrial	court.	 It  may  beconceded  that	when an industry-wise basis  is	 adopted  indealing	 with  a claim like gratuity often  enough  strongerunits of the industry get a, benefit while the weaker  unitssuffer a disadvantage.	Take the case of a gratuity  scheme.If  such a scheme is based on industry-wise basis  employeesworking	 under the stronger units do not get that amount  ofbenefit	 of  gratuity  which  they would  have	got  if	 thequestion  had been considered unit-wise,  whereas  employeesworking in weaker units get a better scheme than they  wouldhave got if the matter had been considered unit-wise.	Sucha  result is inevitable in an industrywise  approach.	Thispossible  mischief  can, however, be mitigated by  taking  afair  cross-section of the industry or by working on a	ruleof  averages after collecting the relevant facts of all	 theconstituent units of the industry.  Even so, if some of	 theunits of the industry are very weak they are apt to suffer adisadvantage  just as the very strong units in the  industryare likely to get an undue advantage in the process; but thequestion which calls for our decision is: does this possibleresult	mean that a scheme for gratuity should on  principlenot  be framed on an industry-wise basis but must always  beframed on a unit-wise basis?There  are  several  factors  which  militate  against	 theappellants' suggestion that unit-wise basis is the only	 (1)[1956] 1 L.L.J.	 435. (2) [1959] S.C.R. 12 at P. 156.345basis  which should be adopted in such a case.	Equality  ofcompetitive  conditions	 is in a sense	necessary  from	 thepoint of view of the employers themselves; that in fact	 wasthe  claim made by the Association which suggested that	 thegratuity  scheme  should be framed  on	industry-wise  basisspread over the whole of the country.  Similarly equality ofbenefits  such as gratuity is likely to	 secure	 contentmentand  satisfaction  of the employees and lead  to  industrialpeace and' harmony.  If similar gratuity schemes are  framedfor  all  the units of the industry migration  of  employeesfrom  one  unit	 to  another  is  inevitably  checked,	 andindustrial  disputes arising from unequal treatment in	thatbehalf are minimized.  Thus, from the point of view of	bothemployers  and	employees industry-wise approach is  on	 thewhole  desirable.   It is well-known that the  Committee  onFair  Wages  which  had examined this  problem	in  all	 itsaspects	 had  come  to the definite  conclusion	 that  "  indetermining  the capacity of an industry to pay it would  bewrong  to  take	 the capacity of a particular  unit  or	 thecapacity of all the industries in the country.	The relevantcriterion should be the capacity of a particular industry ina  specified  region",	and it recommended that	 as  far  aspossible  the same wages should be prescribed for all  unitsof  that  industry in that region.  This approach  has	beenapproved  by  this Court in the case of	 Express  Newspapers(Private) Ltd. (1) (p. 19).  What is true about the wages isequally	 true  about the gratuity scheme.   In	the  presenteconomic  development  of our country  we  think  industrialadjudication would hesitate to adopt an all-India basis	 forthe decision of an industrial dispute like that of gratuity;and  so,  on  principle,  it  would  be	 difficult  to	takeexception to the approach adopted by the industrial court indealing with the present dispute.In this connection it may be relevant to take notice of	 thefact   that  the  wages	 of  textile  employees	 have	beenstandardised on an industry-wise basis.	 Similarly, dearnessallowance   has	  been	fixed  on  the	 same	basis,	 andunsubstituted holidays have been prescribed on a like basis.The Employees' State Insurance(1)  [1959] S.C.R. 12 at P. 156.346Scheme	(Act 34 of 1948) is industry-wise  and	retrenchmentcompensation  has been statutorily standardised on the	samebasis  (Section	 25F  of Act XIV of  1947).   What  is	moreremarkable  is	the  fact  that	 the  Association  and	 therespondent had entered into an agreement regarding bonus fora  period  of  five years and the gratuity  scheme  for	 theclerical  and supervisory staff between the said parties  isalso  based on the same industry-wise approach by  agreementbetween them.  The Association and the respondent can justlyclaim  with  some  pride  that in the  past  most  of  theirdisputes  had  been  amicably settled.	It is  only  on	 thepresent	 occasion  that	 owing to a  difference	 of  opinionamongst	  its  constituent  members  that  the	 Associationwithdrew from the proceedings and left it to the members  toappear individually before the industrial court.  Even so 45out  of the 65 mills have accepted the award.	Under  thesecircumstances  the question which we have to decide is:	 Didthe industrial court err in law in adopting an industry-wisebasis  in  deciding the present proceedings ?  It  would  nodoubt  have been open to the industrial court to  deal	withthe  dispute unit-wise just as it was open to the  court  todeal with it on an industry-wise basis.	 As we have  alreadyindicated  there are several factors in favour	of  adoptingthe  latter  approach  though it may  be  conceded  that  byadopting  the said course some hardship may  conceivably  becaused	to  the	 weakest  units	 in  the  industry.   Havingcarefully  considered  this question in all its	 aspects  weare,_however,  not  prepared  to hold  that  the  scheme  ofgratuity under appeal should be set aside on the ground thatthe  industrial	 court	ought to have  adopted	a  unit-wiseapproach.  In this connection it may not be out of place  toobserve	 that  the cotton textile industry  is	the  premierindustry  of our country and there is a concentration  of  alarge  number  of mills in Ahmedabad.  A good many  of	themhave  capitalised large portions of reserves  and  documentsproduced in the present proceedings show that the productionhas  steadily increased and has found a	 responsive  market.There is a gratuity scheme framed on an industry-wise  basisin operation in Bombay and a similar scheme appears to	havebeen extended to347Nadiad and Khandesh.  In fact an award for gratuity has beenmade  on  an  industry-wise basis even	in  respect  of	 thetextile	 industry  at Coimbatore.  Having  regard  to  thesefacts  we think the industrial court was right in  observingthat  " there was no justification why an important  textilecentre like Ahmedabad should not have a gratuity scheme whenthe  needs  of the labour require it and  the  industry	 canafford it ".It  is	true  that in dealing with  industrial	disputes  onindustry-cum-region basis, if the region covers the whole ofthe  country industrial adjudication sometimes takes  resortto  the	 classification	 of the	 constituent  units  of	 theindustry in question.  Industrial adjudication in regard  tothe fixation of wage-structure in respect of newspapers	 andbanks in the country is an illustration in point.  The	needfor  such a classification is not as great when	 the  regionhappens to be limited in area, though, even in respect of  alimited	 area, in a proper case industrial adjudication	 mayadopt the course of classification.  In the present case theindustrial  court took the view that classification was	 notpossible  and would be inexpedient.  No	 classification	 wasmade  in dealing with the textile mills in Bombay,  and	 theindustrial  court  did	not  feel  called  upon	 to  make  adeparture  in  respect of Ahmedabad.  We do not	 think	thatthis conclusion suffers from any infirmity.The  scheme  has been further attacked on  the	ground	thatbefore	framing it the industrial court has  not  consideredthe  extent  of	 the  liabilities  already  imposed  on	 theindustry.  It has been strenuously argued before us that  inassessing   the	 extent	 of  the  liabilities  the   acutualliabilities accrued as the result of the scheme has not beentaken  into  account and the serious strain imposed  on	 theindustry  by  the imposition of excise duty  has  also	beenoverlooked;  on	 the other hand, undue importance  has	beenattached  to bonus shares and no account has been  taken  ofthe  industry's	 obligation  to	 contribute  to	 the   StateInsurance Scheme.  We are not impressed by these  arguments.The  argument about the actual liability accrued  is  reallythe  oretical and cannot have much  practical  significance.If it is suggested that in348framing	 a scheme of gratuity the capacity to pay should  bedetermined  only  if the employer can set apart a,  fund  tocover the whole of the liability theoretically accrued, thengratuity  schemes can be very rarely framed.   Such  schemesare  long-term	schemes	 and  a	 fund  to  cover  the  totalliability  in  that behalf must inevitably be  built  up  incourse of time year by year.  In regard to the excise  duty,the  industrial	 court	has rightly  pointed  out  that	 theimposition  of	a  higher duty was  the	 conseqence  of	 theexcessive  increase in prices of mill cloth and in  fact  itwas  levied  " to mop off those extra profits  ".  When	 theprices fall down it is not unlikely that the excise duty maybe  reduced.  In any case the obligation to pay excise	dutyor  to	contribute to the insurance scheme,  though  perhapsrelevant, may not have a material bearing on the framing  ofthe scheme of gratuity.	 Then, as to the bonus shares, it isnot   right  to	 contend  that	the  industrial	 court	 hasattributed  undue  importance  to them.	  All  that  it	 hasobserved  is  that  the issue of bonus	shares	by  a  largemajority  of the mills in addition to good dividends  duringthe  war and post-war period is an index to  the  prosperityenjoyed by the cotton textile industry in Ahmedabad.  In ouropinion,  no criticism can be made against  this  statement.In  this connection it may perhaps be pertinent	 to  observethat the statutory ceiling placed on the agent's  commissionmay in due course assist the mills to some extent in meetingtheir liability under the scheme.The  last argument urged against the validity of the  schemeis  based  on  the  assumption	that  in  working  out	 thepreliminary figures before framing the scheme the industrialcourt has committed an error.  What the industrial court hasdone is to take the information collected by the Associationon  the earlier occasion, to compare it with  the  statementprepared  by  the respondent, and to make a  rough  estimateabout  the  extent  of the industry's  liability  under	 thescheme.	 In considering these statements it is important  toemphasise that the Association's calculations have been madenot  on	 the  basis of basic pay but on	 the  basis  of	 payincluding  dearness allowance, and that naturally  has	madeconsiderable, additions to the349amounts involved.  The scheme framed is by reference to	 thebasic  wages.	This position is not  disputed.	  The  othermaterial  point which deserves to be mentioned is  that	 thecalculations   made  by	 the  Association  proceed  on	 theassumption  that most of the employees would seek to  retirefrom  employment  as  soon as they  complete  fifteen  yearsservice.  Such an assumption seems to us to be not warrantedat all.	 It is common ground that employee,% generally	seekemployment  in textile industry between 18 and 20 years	 andthe  age of superannuation is 60.  On an average  each	emp-loyee  would  work  35	to  40 years  and  so  it  would  beunrealistic  to make calculation on the basis that each	 oneof the employees retires as soon as he completes 15 years ofservice.   In the absence of better employment in  Ahmedabadit is quite likely that most of the employees would stick onto their jobs until the age of superannuation.	The  figurescollated  are in respect of the years 1953, 1954  and  1955.They are collated in seven different columns, and ultimatelythe  percentages  of persons who retired  during  the  threerespective  years  are	worked out as at  3.13%,  4.13%	 and3.84%.	 The industrial court has observed that the  largestnumber of persons retired voluntarily on payment of gratuitybecause	 there was an agreement between the Association	 andthe   respondent   whereby   the   respondent	agreed	  torationalisation	 which	involved retrenchment  of  staff  oncondition  that the surplus staff retrenched would be  givengratuity.  It also appears that the retired workmen includeda number of employees who voluntarily resigned because	theyhad not completed 1,5 years of service and were not entitledto  gratuity.  It is on a consideration of all the  relevantfacts that the industrial court came to the conclusion	thatthe  number  of	 persons who would  have  been	entitled  togratuity  under a normal gratuity scheme would probably	 nothave exceeded 2% of the labour force.  If it is assumed,  aswe  think  it can be safely assumed, that on an	 average  anemployee  works	 35 to 40 years with his employer  the	saidpercentage deduced by the industrial court cannot be said tobe  erroneous.	Even so the scheme framed by the  industrialcourt has provided, inter alia, one month's basic45350wage  for  each	 completed year of service  for	 the  periodbefore	the  coming into force of the  Employees'  ProvidentFunds  Act,  1952, and half-a-month's basic  wage  for	eachcompleted  year of service thereafter, subject to a  maximumof fifteen months' basic wages to be paid to the employee orhis heirs or executors or nominees as the case may be.	Thisprovision  which  amounts  to a departure  from	 the  Bombayscheme	of gratuity brings out the fact that the  provisionsmade  by the Employees' Provident Funds Act have  been	dulytaken  into  account  by  the  industrial  court.   We	are,therefore,   satisfied	that  the  scheme  framed   by	 theindustrial  court  does not suffer from any  infirmities  asalleged by the appellants.The result is the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.