PETITIONER:HARIPADA DEY	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF WEST BENGALAND ANOTHER.DATE OF JUDGMENT:05/09/1956BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.IMAM, SYED JAFFERMENON, P. GOVINDACITATION: 1956 AIR  757		  1956 SCR  639ACT:Constitution  of India, Art. 134(1)(c)-Jurisdiction of	HighCourt-Certificate on mere question of fact no certificate atall--Constitution of India, Art. 136(1)-Special Jurisdictionof the Supreme Court to intervene on mere question of  factsto  be invoked -High Court not to arrogate that function  toitself-Evidence-Prosecution not to be blamed for the  lacunato adduce evidence by defence.HEADNOTE:The  High  Court has no jurisdiction  to  grant	 certificateunder Art. 134(1)(c) of the Constitution on mere question offact,  and is not justified in passing on such	question  tothe Supreme Court for further consideration, thus convertingthe , Supreme Court into a Court of Appeal on facts.No doubt the Supreme Court, in case of gross miscarriage  ofjustice	 or departure from legal procedure such as  vitiatesthe  whole  trial,  possesses  the  power  and	has  specialjurisdiction   to  intervene  under  Art.  136(1)  of	thisConstitution  and also if the findings of fact were such  aswere shocking to judicial conscience; but no High Court	 canarrogate  that	function to itself because it  finds  itselfhelpless  to redress the grievance.  Certificate granted  onmere question of fact would be no certificate at all;  High-Court  should refuse such certificates under Art.  134(1)(c)and should ask the parties to approach the Supreme Court  toinvoke	its  special jurisdiction under Art. 136(1)  of	 theConstitution.The accused and not the prosecution is to be blamed for	 thelacuna in the defence in not adducing evidence in support ofhis contentious, which if forthcoming would have  demolishedthe case of the prosecution.Narsingh and another v. The State of Uttar Pradesh,  ([1955]1  S.C.R.  238),  Baladin & Others v.  The  State  of  UttarPradesh,  (A.I.R.  1956 S.C. 181) and Sunder  Singh  v.	 TheState of Uttar Pradesh, (A.I.R. 1956 S.C. 411), referred to.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 86  of1954.Appeal under Article 134(1)(C ) of the Constitution of Indiafrom  the judgment and order dated the 27th-May 1954 of	 theCalcutta High Court in Criminal Appeal No. 158 of 1953.640Sukumar Ghose for the appellantD.   N. Mukerjee for P. K. Bose for respondent No. 1.K. L. Arora for respondent No. 2.1956.  September 5. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyBHAGWATI  J.-The  Appellant was charged under  Section	411,Indian Penal Code with Dishonestly receiving or retaining inhis  possession	 one  Hillman Car number  WBD  4514  bearingEngine	and  Chassis  No. A1178482 WSO	knowing,  or  havingreason	to  believe  the same to be  stolen  property.	 Thelearned	 Presidency Magistrate, Calcutta, convicted  him  ofthis offence and sentenced him to rigorous imprisonment	 for2 years.  The Appellant took an appeal to the High Court  atCalcutta and a Division Bench of the High Court	 constitutedby  Mr. Justice Jyoti Prokash Mitter and Mr.  Justice  SisirKumar  Sen dismissed the appeal confirming  the	  convictionand  sentence passed upon him.	The Appellant filed a  peti-tion  for  leave to appeal to this Court and  that  petitionaccording  to what we are told is the practice obtaining  inthe  Calcutta  High  Court  came  before  a  Division  Benchdifferently  constituted-a Bench constituted by the  learnedChief  Justice	and Mr. Justice S. C.  Lahiri.	 This  Benchallowed	 the  petition and ordered that	 a  certificate	 forleave to appeal under article 134(1)(c) of the	Constitutionmay be drawn up. In an elaborate judgment the learned ChiefJustice observed:"In my view a certificate-of fitness ought to issue in	thiscase, although the question involved is one of fact".After discussing in detail the various circumstances in	 thecase which did not meet with his approval,he wound up by saying:"In  my view it is impossible not to feel in this case	thatthere  has not been as full and fair a trial as I  ought  tohave been held.	 In the circumstances, it appears to me thatthe petitioner is entitled to have641his   case  further  considered	 and  since   such   furtherconsideration  can  only be given by the  Supreme  Court,  Iwould grant the certificate prayed for".Contrary  to  what we had in the previous  case	 before	 us,viz.,  Criminal	 Appeal No. 146 of 1956 (Om Prakash  v.	 TheState  of Uttar Pradesh), where no reasons were given as  towhy  the  Court	 exercised its discretion  in  granting	 thecertificate,   in  this	 judgment  we  have   an   elaboratediscussion as to why such discretion was being exercised. bythe Court.  The reasoning, however, does not, appeal to	 us.Whatever  may have been the misgivings of the learned  ChiefJustice	 in the matter of a full and fair trial	 not  having'been held we are of the opinion that he bad no jurisdictionto  grant a certificate under article 134 (1) (c) in a	casewhere  admittedly in his opinion the question  involved	 wasone  of	 fact-where in spite of a full and  fair  trial	 nothaving	been vouchsafed to the appellant, the  question	 wasmerely	one  of a further consideration of the case  of	 theAppellant  on facts.  The mere disability of the High  Courtto  remedy this circumstance and vouchsafe a full  and	fairtrial  could  not  be  any  justification  for	granting   acertificate  under  article 134(1) (c) and  converting	thisCourt  into a Court of Appeal on facts.	 No High  Court	 hasthe  jurisdiction  to  pass on mere questions  of  fact	 forfurther	 consideration	by  this Court	under  the  relevantarticles  of  the Constitution.	 We no	doubt  possess	thatpower  and in proper cases have exercised it  under  article136(1).	 If there has been a gross miscarriage of justice ora departure from legal procedure such as vitiates the  wholetrial  we  would  certainly  intervene	and  we	 would	alsointervene  if  even the findings of fact were such  as	wereshocking to our judicial conscience and grant in such  casesspecial leave to appeal under article 136(1).  That is, how-'  ever, a special jurisdiction which we can exercise  underarticle 136(1), but no High Court can arrogate that functionto  itself and pass on to us a matter which in its  view  ispurely	one  involving questions of fact, because  it  findsitself	helpless to redress the grievance.  In such a  case,the High Court should83642refuse to give a certificate under article 134(1)(c) and askthe parties to approach us invoking our special jurisdictionunder	article	 136(1)	 of  the  Constitution.	   We	are,therefore,  of the opinion that the discretion that  was  soelaborately  exercised	by the Calcutta High Court  in	thiscase  was wrongly exercised.  The certificate purporting  tohave been granted under article 134(1)(c) was no certificateat all and it does not avail the appellant before us.Following our decisions in Narsingh and another v. The Stateof Uttar Pradesh(1), Baladin & Others v. The State of  UttarPradesh(2)   and  Sunder  Singh	 v.  The  State	  of   UttarPradesh(3),  Mr. Sukumar Ghose for the appellant urged	thatthis was a fit case where we should exercise our  discretionand  grant  the	 appellant special  leave  to  appeal  underarticle	 136(1)	 of the Constitution.  He pointed  out	thateven  though  the appellant had led no evidence	 in  defencethere were on the record of the case certain documents whichif  taken as proved would have been sufficient	to  demolishthe  prosecution  case.	 These were commented  upon  by	 thelearned	 Chief	Justice in the judgment which  he  deliveredwhen  certificate for leave to appeal under  article  134(1)(c) was grunted by him.	 These documents, it was urged, wentto show that sometime before the car in question was stolen,an application had been made by the appellant to the  policeauthorities  in	 Chandarnagore for registration	 of  HillmanMinx  1951  Model  car which bore the  same  number  on	 theengine, chassis and tin-plate as the car in question and  onthat application, investigation had been made by the  A.S.I.police, who made his report, the contents of which would  goto establish the case which was put forward by the appellantin  his defence.  It is no doubt true that  the	 prosecutionhas  got to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt  and	 theaccused	 need not open his mouth nor lead any evidence.	  Ifthe  prosecution  succeeds  in establishing  its  case,	 theconviction  would  follow, but if the prosecution  fails  todischarge the burden which lies upon it to prove the  chargewhich(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 238.     (2) A.I.  R. 1956 B.C. 181.		 (3) A.I.R. 1956 S.C. 411.643has  been  framed against the accused he is entitled  to  anacquittal.  In this case both the Courts below held that theprosecution  bad  proved  its case by the  evidence  of	 thewitnesses who were called including the motor expert, who onapplying chemicals discovered on the engine the very  numberwhich  was the number on the stolen car.  On this  state  ofthe evidence, it was the bounden duty of the appellant if hewanted to prove his defence to adduce evidence in support ofhis  contentions  and if he did not do so, he  had  only  tothank  himself for it.	The prosecution could not be  blamedfor  that  lacuna and if both the Courts below went  on	 therecord	as it stood and came, to the conclusion, finding  itas a fact, that the prosecution had established its case, itcould not be urged, as was sought to be done in the judgmentdelivered  by the learned Chief Justice in the petition	 forleave	to   appeal  to	 this  Court,  that   evidence,	  ifforthcoming,   would  have  demolished	the  case   of	 theprosecution.  If those who represented the appellant did nottake  counsel within themselves and put forward the  defenceas  they  should  have	done, there  was  no  blame  on	 theprosecution  nor  on the learned Presidency  Magistrate	 whotried  the  case and came to the conclusion adverse  to	 theappellant.  Whatever sentiment appears to have been importedin  the Matter has been simply out of place and even if	 onemay  have  a lurking suspicion at the back of his  mind	 andmight feel that there has not been a full and fair trial  asought to have been held, that is no justification for  goingbehind	the concurrent findings of fact reached by both	 theCourts	below  to  the	effect	that  the  prosecution	 hadsucceeded  in establishing the guilt of the  appellant.	  Wesee  nothing in this case to warrant an	 interference  underarticle 136(1) of the Constitution.  This application  will,therefore, be rejected and the appeal will stand  dismissed.Bail bond cancelled and the appellant to surrender his bail.644