PETITIONER:THE  COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, DELHI	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE  DELHI FLOUR MILLS CO., LTD., DELHIDATE OF JUDGMENT:03/10/1958BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1959 AIR  185		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1)  28 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1961 SC 692	 (12)ACT:       Excess Profits-Assessment-Assessee company's agreement  with       managing agents-Commission on net profits-Computation  -Tax,       if can be deducted-- " Net profits ", meaning of.HEADNOTE:An  agreement between the assessee company and its  managingagents provided : " In consideration for acting as  managingagents	the company should pay to the firm  remuneration  atRs.  750/-  p.m............. and in  addition  a  commissionequal  to of the annual net profits.  Such net profits	willbe arrived at after allowing the working expenses,  intereston  loans  and due depreciation, but without  setting  asideanything to reserves or other special funds ". The  questionwas  whether the excess profits tax payable by	the  companyshould	be  deducted  from its profits for  the	 purpose  ofarriving  at  the annual net profits of which  a  percentageshould	be paid to the managing agents as  their  commissionunder the agreement.Held  '	 that,, the words " net profits " in  the  agreementmeant  divisible  profits,  profits  divisible	between	 thecompany	 and the managing agents, and that  in	ascertainingsuch  profits, deduction had to be made, besides  the  itemsexpressly mentioned in the agreement, of excess profits	 taxpayable by the company.James  Finlay  & Co., Ltd. v. Finlay Mills Ltd.,  (1942)  47Bom.   L.R.  774  and Walchand &  Co.,	Ltd.  v.  HindusthanConstruction   Co.,   Ltd.,  (1943)  45	 Bom.	 L.R.	951,considered.Ashton	Gas Company v. Attorney-General, [1906] A.C. 10	 andRe G. B. Ollivant & Co. Ltd.'s Agreement, [1942] 2 All E. R.528, distinguished.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No. 211 of 1955.Appeal from the judgment and order dated.December 30,  1952,of  the Punjab High Court in Civil Reference Case No. 18  of1952.H.   J. Umrigar and R. H. Dhebar, for the appellant.Hardayal Hardy, for tile respondents.1958.  October 3. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by29SARKAR J.-By an agreement made in 1936, the assessee companyappointed  a  firm as its managing  agents.   The  agreementprovided  that the managing agents would be  remunerated  inthe manner following:"In consideration for acting as Managing Agents the  Companyshould pay to, the firm remuneration at Rs. 750 p.m. or suchprincipal sum as may from time to time be deemed  reasonableby  the Directors and in addition a commission equal to	 10%of the annual net profits.  Such net profits will be arrivedat  after allowing the working expenses, interest  on  loansand due depreciation, but without setting aside anything  toreserves or other special funds."The  question  is  whether the	commission  payable  to	 themanaging agents under this agreement is to be ten per  cent.of  the	 profits of the assessee without  deduction  of	 theexcess	profits tax payable by it oil its profits  or  afterdeduction.The  question has arisen in the course of the assessment  ofexcess	profits	 tax payable by the  assessee.	 The  ExcessProfits	 Tax  Officer  held that the commission	 has  to  beascertained  on	 the profits remaining	after  deduction  ofexcess	profits tax.  This view was upheld by the  AppellateAssistant  Commissioner on an appeal being taken to  him  bythe  assessee.	On a further appeal by the assessee  to	 theAppellate Tribunal it was held that the commission has to beascertained on the profits without any deduction of the tax.The  revenue authorities then applied for and  obtained,  anorder from the Tribunal referring the following question fordecision by the High Court:"  Whether  on a true construction of  the  Managing  AgencyAgreement  between  the assessee Company  and  its  ManagingAgents entered into in 1936, the relevant clause of which isquoted	above,	the  Excess Profits Tax	 payable  should  bededucted from the profits of the Company for the purpose  ofarriving  at  the annual net profits of which  a  percentageshould be paid to the Managing Agents as their commission."The High Court answered the question in the negative.30The present appeal is by the revenue authorities against thejudgment of the High Court.The  question is a short one.  It is one of construction  ofthe  managing  agency  agreement.  Of  course,	whatever  ispayable under this agreement to the managing agents as theirremuneration  is  a proper expense of the  business  of	 theassessee and has to be deducted in ascertaining its  profitsand  it is upon such profits that excess profits tax has  tobe  assessed.  There is no dispute about this.	The  disputehas  arisen because the remuneration of the managing  agentsis  we leave out now the minimum and fixed  remuneration  ofRs.  750 per month as to which no question arises  and	withwhich we are therefore not concerned-itself to be calculatedon   the  profits.   The  dispute  is  whether	the   properconstruction  of  the  agreement  is  that  the	 profits,  apercentage of which is to be paid to the managing agents  astheir  remuneration,  are the profits  before  deduction  ofexcess profits tax or after.What  then is the true construction ? The agreement is	that"the  net  profits  will be arrived at	after  allowing	 theworking expenses, interest on loans and due depreciation butwithout	 setting  aside	 anything  to  reserves	 or  specialfunds."	 We  can  leave out the things	expressly  made	 notdeductible for as to these no question arises, the  questionbeing  whether something more, namely, excess  profits	tax,can be deducted. Working expenses, interest on loans and duedepreciation have however been expressly made deductible  inascertaining  the  net	profits.   If  these  are  all	 thedeductions  that can be made, excess profits tax  cannot  bededucted for it does not come under any one of them.  But itseems to us that the agreement was not intended to lay	downall  the deductions that can be made.  It is not in  disputethat  expenses like overhead expenses,	litigation  expensesand similar other expenses properly incurred for carrying onthe business can be deducted in arriving at the net profits.These  would not be included within "working expenses "	 forthat  expression  is  usually  understood  as  referring  toexpenses debitable to the trading account31as having been incurred directly in making the income  shownthere.	If this were not the sense in which the expression "working	 expenses " was used and it was meant to  cover	 allrevenue	 expenses  incurred, then there would have  been  noneed   to  mention  interest  on  loans	  and	depreciationseparately,  for, these latter would have been	included  asrevenue expenses in the expression " working expenses ".  Weare  therefore inclined to think that there are other  itemsbesides those expressly mentioned, which have to be deductedbefore the net profits can be arrived at.What  then are these other items?  That will depend on	whatthe parties must be taken to have had in mind when they usedthe  words " net profits ". The intention of the parties  asto  what they meant by these words can be best	gathered  bytrying	to  find  out what they were  about  in	 making	 theagreement.  The parties were a master and a servant and theywere  fixing the remuneration of the servant.  They  decidedthat profits or no profits, the servant would have a certainfixed  sum  per month.	They also agreed  that	the  servantwould  besides the fixed sum, have a certain portion of	 thenet profits.  The net profits, whatever they were, would  ofcourse	be  a variable figure; in some years they  would  bemore  or  less than in other years.  The  parties  thereforeagreed	that the remuneration of the servant would  increaseor decrease as the net profits were larger or smaller.	 Butwhy did they do so ? Obviously because they thought that  itwas   fair  that  the  servant's  remuneration	 should	  becommensurate with the benefit that his work produced for themaster;	 the  larger  such  benefit  was,  the	larger	 theservant's  remuneration and vice versa.	 It is difficult  toimagine	 that the parties agreed that remuneration would  bepaid  for profits earned by the servant's efforts  of  whichthe master did not get the benefit.  This view of the matterbecomes clearer when one remembers that besides the variableremuneration  dependent oil the profits, the servant  had  afixed  minimum remuneration.  The agreement, therefore,	 wasessentially one to share the profits; the agreement was thatpart of the profits was32to  go	to  the	 servant and part  enure  for  the  master'sbenefit.  If this is the true construction of the agreement,as  we	think it is, then it follows that  the	net  profitscontemplated  by  the  parties are such profits	 as  can  bedivided between the master and the servant; they are such ofwhich  both the master and the servant get the enjoyment  instated proportions.  In other words, they are the  divisibleprofits	 of the company, divisible, that is to say,  betweenthe  master  and the servant.  In order that  the  divisibleprofits can be ascertained, excess profits tax has of courseto  be deducted.  As to that there does not seem to  be	 anydoubt, for, that part of the profits which is taken away  bythe State as excess profits tax, is not available either  tothe  master or the servant and cannot therefore	 be  dividedbetween them.It  is said that the agreement cannot be construed  in	thisway  because  that would be adding a word to  it;  the	word'divisible not being there, is introduced into the agreementto  support this construction.	This however is not so.	  Noword  is being introduced but the words used are only  beingexplained.   It is only stating that the parties meant by  "net profits ", the divisible profits.  It is really  statingthe same thing in different words.It  is	also  no objection to the view that  we	 take,	thatexcess	profits	 tax  is a part of  the	 profits  itself  Itperhaps	 is  so	 but it is no part of the "  net  profits  "contemplated  by the parties.  It is a part which has to  bededucted in arriving at the net profits, that is to say, thedivisible profits which alone the parties had in mind. As a matter of construction of the agreement before us,-andwe do not think that the question involved in this case	 canbe  decided  in	 any other way-therefore,  we  come  to	 theconclusion  that  the  " net profits "	mean  the  divisibleprofits and are to be ascertained after deduction of  excessprofits tax which is payable by the assessee.That is how the matter strikes us apart from any  authority.We  now turn to some of the authorities which were cited  atthe bar.  They are In re Condran,			  33Condran	 v.  Stark (1), Patent Castings	 Syndicate  Ltd.  v.Etherington (2), Vulcan Motor and Engineering Co. v. Hampson(3 ), Re G. B. Ollivant & Co. Ltd.'s Agreement	  JamesFinlay & Co. Ltd. v. Finlay Mills Ltd.	and  Walchand &	 Co.Ltd.  v. Hindusthan Construction Co. Ltd. (6).	These  caseshowever	 all  turn  on the construction	 of  the  agreementsinvolved in them.  They are therefore not of much assistancein  construing	the agreement that we have before  us,	for,each  agreement has to be construed according to  the  wordscontained in it and the circumstances in which it was  made.The  judgment in Re G. B. Ollivant & Co.   Ltd.'s  Agreement(supra)	 referred to earlier is that of the House of  Lords.In  the judgment delivered in this case by the Court  Appealreported in (1942) 2 All E. R. 528 which was affirmed by themajority  of  the House of Lords, Lord Greene M.  R.  warnedthat  in  questions  of this kind  authorities	were  of  noassistance.    Referring  to  the  earlier   English   casesmentioned above, he said (p. 532):"  They	 decide	 that  on  the	true  construction  of	 theagreements there in controversy, the phrase " net profits  "in  Etherington's case, the phrase " profits earned  by	 thecompany " in Vulcan's case and the phrase " net profits " inCondran's  case,  all  meant the divisible  profits  of	 thecompany in the first two cases and of the partnership in thethird.	They went on to decide a matter which I should	havethought	  was  not  open  to  question,	 namely,   that	  inascertaining divisible profits excess profits duty fell	 to.be   deducted  .......................................	 Butbeyond that, those authorities do not appear to me to affordany assistance.	 The first part of the decisions, as to	 themeaning	 of " profits " or net profits in  those  particularagreements, does not help, because the language is  entirelydifferent from that used in the present case; and the secondpart   of  the	decisions,  namely,  that  in	ascertainingdivisible profits excess profits duty is to(1)  [1917] 1 Ch. 639.	  (3) [1921] 3 K. B. 597.			  (5) (1942) 47 Bom.  L.R. 774.(2)  [1919] 2 Ch. 254.(4)  [1942] 2 All E. R. 528.(6)  (1943) 45 Bom.  L.R. 951.534be deducted, is, as I say, a matter for which I should	havethought authority was not required.........Like  the  earlier  cases, Re O. B. Ollivant  &	 Co.  Ltd.'sAgreement (1) also 'turned on the language of the ;agreementinvolved in it and is not therefore of any great assistance.The Indian cases mentioned earlier were also decided on	 theagreements  with  which they were concerned.  In  the  JamesFinlay & Co. Ltd. case (2) the agreement provided that the "net profits" were to be ascertained before setting aside anysum " for payment of income-tax, super-tax or any other	 taxon  income ". It was held that " any other tax on  income  "included  excess  profits tax which could not  therefore  bededucted.   Beaumont  C. J. observed in this  case  that  ithaving	been held that income-tax being something  which  ispayable	 out  of  the  profits and not	a  liability  to  bededucted  in ascertaining the profits, it was  difficult  toexplain	 why the same' principle should not apply to  excessprofits duty.  He also said that a distinction had been madebetween the two taxes in the English cases, to some of whichwe have earlier referred, but he did not think it  necessaryto  consider  whether all the grounds  of  distinction	weresound, because in the case before him he thought that excessprofits tax had been expressly dealt with.  In the  Walchand&  Co.	Ltd.  case  the agreement was  very  much  like	 theagreement  that	 we  have before us. It	 provided  that	 themanaging  agents would be paid ten per-cent. of	 the  annualnet  profits earned by the company and also stated  that  inarriving at the net profits certain deductions would be madewhich  included the working expenses and that certain  otherdeductions  would  not be made, but no mention was  made  ofexcess	profits	 tax  as  being	 deductible  or	  otherwise.Beaumont  C.  J. who was a member also of  the	bench  whichdecided	 this  case, held that the agreement  was  a  profitsharing agreement and the net profits had to be	 ascertainedafter deducting excess profits tax.  Now we do not refer  tothese judgments(1) [1942] 2 All E. R. 528.  (2) (1942) 47 Bom.	 L.R. 774.	       (3) (1943) 45 Bom.  L.R. 951.35as  supporting	anything that we say but  because  the	HighCourt  unwittingly fell into the error of thinking that	 theWalchand & Co. Ltd. case (1) came before the James Finlay  &Co. Ltd. case (2) and that in the latter case Beaumont C. J.had  doubted  the  correctness of what he had  said  in	 theformer.	  These observations are wholly wrong  because,	 theJames  Finlay & Co.  Ltd. case (2) was decided	long  beforethe Walchand & Co. Ltd. case (1) had been decided.   Neitherdo we find that there is any conflict between the two cases.In  the	 Walchand & Co. Ltd. case (1), Beaumont C.  J.	gavereasons	 for  making a distinction  between  income-tax	 andexcess profits tax and thought that the distinction  betweenthem  made in the English cases to which we  have  referred,was  not of substance.	We do not think it necessary to	 sayanything  as  to whether Beaumont C. J. was  right  in	thisview.Oil  behalf  of the assessee we were pressed with  the	samecontention  that  as it has long been held  that  income-taxcould  not be deducted in ascertaining the net profits of  acompany, excess profits tax could not also be deducted, for,they were substantially of the same nature each being a	 taxon  the profits.  Indeed in Ashton Gas Company v.  Attorney-General	 (3), where the House of Lords had to  construe	 theprovision  in the incorporating statute of the	Gas  Companywhich provided that the profits to be distributed among	 theshareholders in any year should not exceed a given rate, thefollowing  observation	occurs in the opinion  delivered  byLord Halsbury L. C. at p. 12:"  Income-tax is a charge upon the profits; the thing  whichis taxed is the profit that is made, and you must  ascertainwhat  is the profit that is made before you deduct the	tax-You  have  no  right to deduct	the  income-tax	 before	 youascertain  what the profit is, I cannot understand  how	 youcan make the income-tax part of the expenditure."Now  it seems to us that there is nothing in the Ashton	 GasCo. case(3)  which prevents us from(1) (1943) 45 Bom.  L.R. 951.  (2) (1942) 47 Bom.  L.R. 774.(3)  [1906] A. C. 10, 12.36holding that in ascertaining the net profits for the purposeof  the agreement that is before us, excess profits tax	 hasto be excluded.	 That was not a case of profit sharing.	  Itwas not concerned with deciding what sums are deductible  inarriving  at  the  divisible profits  in  a  profit  sharingagreement.   That is what we have to decide.   Therefore  wethink  that the Ashton Gas Co. case (1) does not  assist  inanswering the question that has arisen in this case.Nor do we think it necessary in the present case, as we havesaid  earlier,	to  decide whether  there  are	distinctionsbetween	 income-tax  and  excess profits tax.	We  are	 notconcerned  with	 the question whether income-tax  should  bededucted  before the net profits under the agreement can  beascertained.   We  will	 assume that it cannot	be.   It  iscommon sense and also firmly established on the	 authoritiesto which reference has already been made, that in ascertain-ing  the  divisible  profits excess profits tax	 has  to  bededucted.  As we have construed the agreement in this  case,net  profits mean the divisible profits and  therefore	theycan  be	 arrived at only after deduction of  excess  profitstax.We  wish now to refer to the minority opinions in the  Houseof Lords in Re G. B. Ollivant & Co. Ltd.'s Agreement (2)  onwhich  the  High  Court	 seems largely	to  have  based	 itsdecision.   The dissenting opinion of Viscount Simon  L.  C.arose  from  the fact that he did not think  that  the	wordprofits	 in  the agreement then before the House  meant	 thedivisible  profits.  With the reasons for this view  we	 arenot  concerned	for  these turned on  the  wording  of	thatagreement.   Having held that the word profits did not	meanthe  divisible	profits, he proceeded  to  consider  whetherexcess profits tax could be deducted in ascertaining the netprofits and in doing so said that as income-tax could not bededucted  as  held in the Ashton Gas Co. case  (1),  neithercould  excess  profits	tax, for, both	were  parts  of	 theprofits.  He also said that the Court of Appeal was wrong inthinking  that	excess profits tax could be debited  to	 theprofit	and  loss account and therefore held  that  the	 netprofit(1) [1906] A.C. 10, 12.(2) [1942] 2 All E. R. 528.37which is usually shown in that account has to be ascertainedwithout deducting excess profits tax.  We are not  concernedwith this part of the opinion of the Lord Chancellor either.It  was	 given on the basis that the profits  were  not	 thedivisible  profits and we are concerned only with  divisibleprofits.    The	 other	dissentient  speech  was   by	LordMacmillan.   He said substantially what Viscount  Simon	 hadsaid, and therefore it is unnecessary to deal with his	viewseparate  y.  It  does not however appear  to  us  that	 thedissentient  Judges in the House of Lords held that  if	 theprofits were the divisible profits, excess profits tax couldnot  be deducted before these could be ascertained.  In	 theview  that  we	have taken of the agreement  before  us,  wecannot,	  therefore,   derive  any   assistance	  from	 thedissentient opinions.One  other  case, namely, N. M. Rayaloo Iyer & Sons  v.	 TheCommissioner  of Income-tax, Madras (1), was brought to	 ourattention.  This case also purports to follow the  reasoningadopted in the minority judgments in Re G. B. Ollivant & Co.Ltd.'s Agreement (2) and actually relied on the authority ofthe  judgment under appeal.  It is therefore unnecessary  torefer to it further.It  had	 been  contended by the	 learned  advocate  for	 theappellant  that	 even if the net profits  mentioned  in	 theagreement were not the divisible profits and even if income-tax could not be deducted to ascertain these profits, excessprofits tax was a proper deduction to be made.	It was	saidthat  excess profits tax was for this purpose  different  innature	from income-tax, for, (a) under s. 12 of the  ExcessProfits Tax Act, 1940, excess profits tax was deductible  asan  expense  for the purpose of income-tax  assessment;	 (b)that  where  the employer is a company, as  in	the  presentcase, the income-tax paid is refundable to the	shareholderswhich excess profits tax is not; (c) that excess profits taxis a " debt " of the business and therefore an outgoing, and(d)  that  it was in the nature of a licence  fee  upon	 thepayment of which alone the business could be carried on.  Itis  unnecessary to consider these points as in our view	 thenet profits in this case were(1) [1954] 26 I.T.R. 265. (2) [1942] 2 All E. R. 528.38the  divisible	profits and whether excess  profits  tax  isdistinguishable from income-tax for any of these reasons  ornot, it is properly deductible.We should also refer to an argument advanced by the assesseewhich  was founded on s. 87-C of the Indian  Companies	Act,1913,  introduced  by  an  amendment  made  in	1936,  whichprovides  that the remuneration of the managing agents of  acompany	 shall	be  a fixed percentage	of  its	 net  annualprofits,  and  that  in	 calculating  the  net	profits	  nodeduction  in respect of any tax or duty on income is to  bemade.	It  is	said  that  the	 statute  incorporates	 theuniversal  commercial practice and therefore  in  construingthe present agreement excess profits tax cannot be deducted.We  are	 not  aware whether  the  section  incorporates	 anypractice  but  we  think that this  contention	is  entirelyunfounded  for	the section was applied only to	 a  managingagency	agreement  made	 after the amending  Act  came	intoforce,	while  the agreement in the present  case  was	madebefore that date.Lastly, we have to point out that nothing turns on the	factthat at the date the agreement under consideration was made,Excess Profits Tax Act had not come on the statute book	 norperhaps	 been thought of, and therefore could not have	beenin  the contemplation of the parties.  If the  net  profits,are  the  divisible  profits,  everything  necessary  to  beexcluded  to  arrive  at the divisible	profits	 has  to  bededucted whether it was in the contemplation of the  partiesor not.	 It is easy to imagine instances.  Suppose after theagreement  the	Government  imposed a  licence	fee  on	 thepayment of which alone the business could have been  carriedon and that licence fee was not in the contemplation of	 theparties when the agreement had been made.  None the less  ithas  clearly  to be deducted in finding	 out  the  divisibleprofits.  In the result we would answer the question  framedin the affirmative.The  appeal is therefore allowed with  costs in	 this  Courtand in the High Court.			    Appeal allowed.39