PETITIONER:M/S.  KASTURI AND SONS (PRIVATE) LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:SHRI N. SALIVATEESWARAN AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:19/03/1958BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1958 AIR  507		  1959 SCR    1ACT:Working	 journalist-Claim against employer for	recovery  ofdues-Reference by State Government to specified authority-Ifauthority  also	 empowered to determine	 amount	 due-Workingjournalists   (Conditions  of  Service)	 and   MiscellaneousProvisions Act, 1955 (45 of 1955), S- 17.HEADNOTE:The respondent No. I was a journalist supplying news to	 thepetitioner's  newspaper	 on  payment  of  a  fixed   monthlyhonorarium.   Contrary to the petitioner's instructions	 therespondent  No.	 I left India and thereupon  the  petitionerterminated  the arrangement.  Upon his return to  India	 therespondent No. I requested the petitioner to reconsider	 itsdecision   but	the  petitioner	 declined  to  do  so.	 Therespondent No. I applied to the State Government under s. 17Of  tile  Working Journalists (Conditions  of  Service)	 andMiscellaneous  Provisions Act, 1955 claiming a large sum  ofmoney  from the petitioner.  The State Government  nominatedrespondent NO. 2 as the authority under s. 17 of the Act andreferred  the  claim to him.  The  petitioner  disputed	 thewhole  claim and contended that the respondent NO. 2 had  nojurisdiction  to adjudicate upon the merits of the  disputedclaim:Held,  that the authority specified under s. 17 of  the	 Acthad  no	 jurisdiction  to determine the amount	due  as	 thesection merely provided for a procedure to recover an amountfrom the employer which had previously been determined by  acompetent  authority  or  court.   If  the  legislature	 hadintended  that	the enquiry under s. 17 should	include	 theexamination  of	 the  merits of the  claim  and	 a  decisionthereon,   it	would  have  made   appropriate	  provisionsconferring  upon  the  State  Government  or  the  specifiedauthority  the relevant powers essential for the purpose  ofeffectively holding such an enquiry; but no such powers	 hadbeen conferred.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 249 of 1956.Under  Article	32  of the Constitution	 of  India  for	 theenforcement of Fundamental Rights.R.   Ramamurthi	  Aiyar	 and  B.  K.  B.  Naidu,   for	 thepetitioners.Purshottam Tricumdas, P. Ramaswamy, Advocate,2Bombay High Court, with special permission and 1. N. Shroff,for the respondent No. 1.Y.   Kumar, for the interveners.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India and B. Sen, forthe Attorney-General of India (To assist the Court).1958.	March 19.  The following Judgment of the  Court	 wasdelivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR	J.-This is an application under Art.  32  ofthe  Constitution.   The  petitioner is	 a  private  limitedcompany having its registered office at No. 201, Mount Road,Madras.	 The company is the, proprietor of a daily newspapercalled " The Hindu " which is published at Madras and has  alarge circulation in India and abroad.	The shareholders  ofthe  company are all citizens of India.	 The  first  respon-dent, Shri N. Salivateeswaran, is a journalist of Bombay andhe  has	 been  supplying  news	to  various  newspapers	 andjournals one of which was the Hindu.  The supply of news  bythe  first  respondent to the Hindu was under  an  agreementunder  which he was being paid a fixed	monthly	 honorarium.Contrary  to the advice and instructions of the	 petitioner,the  first respondent left India for Zurich on May 1,  1956.The  petitioner	 thereupon relieved him of  his	 duties	 andterminated  with effect from March 1, 1956, the	 arrangementunder which he was supplying news to the Hindu.	 He returnedto  India  in  July 1956, and requested	 the  petitioner  toreconsider  its decision; but the petitioner did  not  thinkthat  any  case	 for  reconsideration  had  been  made	out.Thereupon  the first respondent made an application  to	 theLabour	Minister of the State of Bombay under s. 17  of	 theWorking	   Journalists	 (Conditions   of    Service)	 andMiscellaneous  Provisions  Act,	 1955  (Act  45	 of   1955),hereinafter  referred  to  as the act.	 On  receiving	thisapplication the State of Bombay nominated Shri M. R.  Meher,1.  C.	S. (Retired), second respondent,  as  the  authorityunder  s. 17 of the act for the purpose of enquiry into	 thefirst respondent's application and requested him to  examinethe claim made by the first3respondent and, in case he was satisfied that any money	 wasdue, to issue a certificate for that amount to the Collectorof  Bombay  for further action as provided under s.  17.   Acopy  of  the application was served on	 the  petitioner  byorder  of  the	second respondent;  and	 a  covering  letteraddressed  to  the petitioner called upon him  to  file	 hiswritten statement in reply to the first respondent's claim.By his application the first respondent had claimed a sum ofRs.  1,57,172-8-0  from	 the  petitioner.   In	his  writtenstatement,  the petitioner disputed the whole of  the  claimmade by the first respondent and traversed all the  materialallegations  made  by  him in support  of  his	claim.	 Thepetitioner also contended that the second respondent had  nojurisdiction  to go into the matters arising from the  firstrespondent's   application.   It  was  also  urged  by	 thepetitioner alternatively that, even if the second respondenthad  jurisdiction  to  deal  with the  matter,	he  had	 thediscretion to decline to consider the matter and leave it tobe  tried in the ordinary courts.  The petitioner  requestedthe second respondent to exercise his discretion and  directthe  first respondent to establish his claim in	 the  appro-priate civil court.  The petitioner's written statement	 wasfiled on October 18, 1956.The  second respondent decided to deal with the question  ofjurisdiction  as  a preliminary issue.	He  heard  both	 theparties	 on this preliminary issue and, by his	order  datedNovember  12, 1956, he recorded his conclusion that  he	 hadjurisdiction  to  deal	with  the matter  and  that  it	 wasunnecessary to direct the first respondent to establish	 hisclaim  in the ordinary civil court.  Accordingly the  matterwas  adjourned	to  December 1, 1956,  for  hearing  on	 themerits.	  It  is  this	order which  is	 challenged  by	 thepetitioner  before us by his present petition under Art.  32of the Constitution.The petitioner's case is that s. 17 of the act provides onlyfor  a	mode  of  recovery of any money	 due  to  a  workingjournalist.  It does not empower the State Government or theauthority  specified  by the State Government to  act  as  aforum for adjudicating4upon  the merits of the disputed claim.	 That being so,	 thesecond	respondent  has	 no jurisdiction to  deal  with	 themerits	 of  the  first	 respondent's  claim   against	 thepetitioner.  In	 the alternative,  the	petitioner  contendsthat,if	 s. 17 confers jurisdiction on the State  Governmentor  the	 authority  specified by  the  State  Government  toadjudicate  upon  disputed  claims mentioned  in  the  said.section, the said section would be ultra vires and void.  Onthese alternative pleas, two alternative reliefs are claimedby the petitioner.  The first relief claimed is that a	writin  the nature of the writ of prohibition or other  suitablewrit   or  direction  be  issued  restraining	the   secondrespondent from exercising any powers under s. 17 of the actand  proceeding with the enquiry into the application  filedby  the first respondent and forwarded to him by  the  StateGovernment  and issue him a certificate.  The  other  reliefclaimed	 is that this court should be pleased to  order	 anddirect that s. 17 of the act is ultra vires and void on	 thegrounds set out in the petition.It  would be necessary and convenient to construe s.  17  ofthe act first and determine its true scope and effect.	 Thelarger question about the vires of this act and the validityof  the	 decision of the Wage Board set up  by	the  CentralGovernment under s. 8 of the act have been considered by  usin the several petitions filed by several employers in	thatbehalf	before this Court.  We have held in those  petitionsthat,  with the exception of s. 5 (1) (a) (iii) which  dealswith  the payment of gratuity to employees  who	 voluntarilyresign from service, the rest of the act is valid.  That  iswhy  the  question  about the vires of s.  17  need  not  beconsidered  in	the present petition over again.   The	mainpoint  which remains to be considered, however, is: Does  s.17   constitute	 the  State  Government	 or  the   authorityspecified   by	the  State  Government	into  a	 forum	 foradjudicating upon the merits of the claim made by  newspaperemployee  against hip, employer under any of the  provisionsof this act ? Section 17 provides:"  Where  any money is due to a newspaper employee  from  anemployer under any of the provisions5of  this  Act, whether by way of compensation,	gratuity  orwages, the newspaper employee may, without prejudice to	 anyother  mode  of recovery, make an application to  the  StateGovernment for the recovery of the money due to him, and  ifthe  State.   Government  or such  authority  as  the  StateGovernment may specify in this behalf is satisfied that	 anymoney  is  so due, it shall issue a  certificate  for  that'amount	to the collector and the collector shall proceed  torecover that amount in the same manner as an arrear of	landrevenue."It  is clear that the employee's claim against his  employerwhich can form the subject matter of an enquiry under s.. 17must relate to compensation awardable under s. 4 of the act,gratuity awardable under s. 5 of the act, or wages claimableunder the decision of the Wage Board. If the employee wishesto make any other claim against his employer, that would notbe  covered  by	 s. 17.	 As the	 marginal  note	 shows,	 thesection	 deals	with  the  recovery of	money  due  from  anemployer.The  employee contends that the process of  recovery  beginswith the making of an application setting out the claim	 andends  with the actual recovery of the amount found due.	  Onthis construction, the dispute between the employee and	 hisemployer in regard to any claim which the employee may	makeagainst	 his  employer would fall to be	 determined  on	 themerits	right  up  from	 the  start  to	 the  issue  of	 thecertificate under this section.	 In other words, if a  claimis  made  by the employee and denied by	 the  employer,	 themerits of the claim together with the other issues that	 mayarise  between the parties have to be considered under	thissection.   On this argument s. 17 provides a  self-containedprocedure for the enforcement of the claims covered by it.On  the other hand, the case for the petitioner is that	 thesection	 provides for a procedure to recover the amount	 duefrom an employer, not for the determination of the  questionas  to what amount is due.  The condition precedent for	 theapplication of s. 17 is a prior determination by a competentauthority or the6court  of the amount due to the employee from his  employer.It  is only if and after the amount due to the employee	 hasbeen  duly determined that the stage is reached	 to  recoverthat  amount  and it is at this stage that the	employee  isgiven  the  additional advantage provided by s.	 17  withoutprejudice  to any other mode of recovery available  to	him.According  to  this  view,  the	 State	Government  or	 theauthority  specified by the State Government has to  hold  asummary	 enquiry on a very narrow and limited point: Is	 theamount which is found due to the employee still due when theemployee  makes	 an  application under s. 17,  or,  has	 anyamount been paid, and, if yes, how much still remains to  bepaid?	It is only a limited enquiry of this type  which  iscontemplated  by  s. 17.  Within the scope  of	the  enquirypermitted  by this section are not included the	 examinationand  decision  of  the	merits of  the	claim  made  by	 theemployee.   When the section refers to the application	madeby the employee for the recovery of the money due to him, itreally contemplates the stage of execution which follows thepassing of the decree or the making of an award or order  byan  appropriate	 court or authority.  In  our  opinion,	 theconstruction suggested by the petitioner should be  acceptedbecause	 we feel that this construction is  more  reasonableand more consistent with the scheme of the act.It is significant that the State Government or the  specificauthority  mentioned in s. 17 has not been clothed with	 thenormal	powers	of a court or a tribunal to  hold  a  formalenquiry.   It  is  true that s. 3, sub-s.  (1)	of  the	 Actprovides for the application of the Industrial Disputes Act,1947,  to or in relation to working journalists	 subject  tosub-s.	(2); but this provision is in substance intended  tomake  working journalists workmen within the meaning of	 themain  Industrial Disputes Act.	This section cannot be	readas  conferring	on  the State Government  or  the  specifiedauthority mentioned under s. 17 power to enforce  attendanceof witnesses, examine them on oath, issue commission or passorders in respect of discovery and inspection such as can bepassed by the boards, courts7or  tribunals  under  the Industrial Disputes  Act.   It  isobvious	 that  the  relevant  provisions of  s.	 11  of	 theIndustrial Disputes Act, 1947, which confer the said  powerson  the conciliation officers, boards, courts and  tribunalscannot	be  made applicable to the State Government  or	 thespecified authority mentioned, under s. 17 merely by  virtueof s. 3(1) of the act.In this connection, it would be relevant to remember that s.11  of the act expressly confers the material powers on	 theWage Board established tinder s. 8 of the Act.	Whatever maybe the true nature or character of the Wage Board-whether itis  a legislative or an administrative body-the	 legislaturehas taken the precaution to enact the enabling provisions ofs.  11	in the matter of the said material  powers.   It  iswellknown  that,  whenever the legislature wants  to  conferupon any specified authority powers of a civil court in	 thematter	of holding enquiries, specific provision is made  inthat  behalf.  if  the legislature  had	 intended  that	 theenquiry	 authorised  under s. 17 should include	 within	 itscompass	 the  examination of the merits	 of  the  employee'sclaim  against	his  employer  and a  decision	on  it,	 thelegislature  would  undoubtedly	 have  made  an	 appropriateprovision   conferring	on  the	 State	Government  or	 thespecified  authority the relevant powers essential  for	 thepurpose	 of effectively holding such an enquiry.   The	factthat the legislature has enacted s. 11 in regard to the WageBoard but has not made any corresponding provision in regardto the State Government or the specified authority under  s.17  lends strong corroboration to the view that the  enquirycontemplated by s. 17 is a summary enquiry of a very limitednature and its scope is confined to the investigation of thenarrow point as to what amount is actually due to be paid tothe  employee under the decree, award, or other valid  orderobtained  by  the employee after establishing his  claim  inthat  behalf.  We are reluctant to accept the view that	 thelegislature  intended  that the specified authority  or	 theState  Government  should  hold a larger  enquiry  into	 themerits	of  the employee's claim without conferring  on	 theState Government or the8specified authority the necessary powers in that behalf.  Inthis connection, it would be relevant to  Point out that  inmany cases some complicated questions of fact may arise whenworking	 journalists  make claims for  wages  against  theiremployers.   It	 is  not unlikely that	the  status  of	 theworking	 journalist, the nature of the office he  holds	 andthe  class to which he belongs may themselves be matters  ofdispute	 between  the  parties	and  the  decision  of	suchdisputed questions of fact may need thorough examination anda  formal enquiry.  If that be so it is not likely that	 thelegislature  could  have  intended  that  such	 complicatedquestions of fact should be dealt with in a summary  enquiryindicated by s. 17.Section	  17  seems  to	 correspond  in	 substance  to	 theprovisions  of s. 20, sub-s. (1) of the Industrial  Disputes(Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950, which has now been repealed.Under this section, any money due from an employer under anyaward or decision of an industrial tribunal may be recoveredas  arrears  of land revenue or as a public  demand  by	 theappropriate  Government on an application made to it by	 theperson	entitled to the money under that award or  decision.It  is	clear that the proceedings under s. 20,	 sub-s.	 (1)could commence only if and after the workman had obtained anaward  or decision in his favour.  We are inclined to  thinkthat the position under s. 17 is substantially similar.In this connection we may also refer to the provisions of s.33C of the Industrial Disputes Act (14 of 1947). sub-s.	 (1)of  s. 33C has been added by Act 36 of 1956 and is  modelledon the provisions of s. 17 of the present Act.	Section 33C,sub-s.	(2),  however,	is more relevant  for  our  purpose.Under  s. 33C, sub-s. (2), where any workman is entitled  toreceive	 from his employer any benefit which is	 capable  ofbeing  computed in terms of money, the amount at which	suchbenefit may be computed may, subject to any rules made underthis  act,  be	determined by such Labour Court	 as  may  bespecified in this behalf by the appropriate Government,	 andthe amount so determined should be recovered as provided forin9sub-s.	(1).  Then follows sub-s. (3) which provides for  anenquiry	 by the Labour Court into the question of  computingthe  money  value of the benefit in  question.	 The  LabourCourt  is  empowered  under this sub-section  to  appoint  acommissioner who shall, after taking such evidence as may benecessary,  submit  a report to the Labour  Court,  and	 theLabour	Court shall determine the amount  after	 consideringthe  report of the commissioner and other  circumstances  ofthe case.. These provisions indicate that, where an employeemakes  a  claim for some money by virtue of the	 benefit  towhich  he  is  entitled,  an  enquiry  into  the  claim	  iscontemplated  by the Labour Court, and it is only after	 theLabour	Court  has  decided the	 matter	 that  the  decisionbecomes enforceable under s. 33C(1) by a summary procedure.It  is	true that, in the present case,	 the  Government  ofBombay	has specified the authorities under the	 Payment  ofWages  Act  and	 the Industrial Disputes  Act  as  specifiedauthorities  under  s.	17  to	deal  with  applications  ofnewspaper  employees whose wages are less than Rs.  200	 permonth or more respectively; but there can be no doubt  that,when   the   second   respondent   entertained	 the   firstrespondent's  application,  he was acting as  the  specifiedauthority under s. 17 and not as an industrial tribunal.  Itis  clear that, under s. 17, the State Government  would  beentitled  to specify any person it likes for the purpose  ofholding	 an enquiry under the said section.  The  powers  ofthe  authority	specified under s. 17 must be found  in	 theprovisions  of the act itself and -they cannot	be  inferredfrom   the  accidental	circumstance  that   the   specifiedauthority otherwise is a member of the industrial  tribunal;since there is no provision in the act which confers on	 thespecified authority the relevant and adequate powers to holda.  formal  enquiry,  it would be difficult  to	 accept	 theposition that various questions which may arise between	 theworking journalists and their employers were intended to  bedealt  with  in	 a summary and an  informal  manner  withoutconferring adequate powers on the210specified  authority in that behalf.  The second  respondenthimself	 was impressed by this argument but he was  inclinedto hold that the necessary power could be assumed by him  byimplication because he thought that, in the absence of	suchimplied	 power,	 his jurisdiction under s. 17 could  not  beeffectively exercised.	In our opinion, this approach reallybegs  the question.  If the legislature did not	 confer	 ad.equate powers on the specified authority under s. 17, a morereasonable  inference would be that the nature and scope  ofthe  powers under s. 17 is very limited and the	 legislatureknew that, for holding such a limited and narrow enquiry, itwas unnecessary to confer powers invariably associated	withformal	and  complicated enquiries of a judicial  or  quasi-judicial  character.   We  must accordingly  hold  that	 thesecond respondent had no jurisdiction to entertain the firstrespondent's application at this stage.It appears from the order made by the second respondent thathe  took the view that, though he had jurisdiction  to	dealwith  the  application, it would have been open	 to  him  torefuse to exercise that jurisdiction and to direct the firstrespondent  to	establish his claim in	the  ordinary  civilcourt.	He, however, thought that he need not exercise	thatpower in the present case.  We are satisfied that the secondrespondent  was in error in both these conclusions.   If  hehad jurisdiction to deal with this matter under s. 17, it isdifficult to appreciate how, in the absence of any provisionin   that  -behalf,  he	 could	have  directed	 the   firstrespondent-to  establish  his claim in	the  ordinary  civilcourt.	 Such  an order would clearly have amounted  to	 thesecond respondent's failure to exercise jurisdiction  vestedin him.	 Besides, if s. 17 had really given   him discretionin  this matter as assumed by the second respondent, on	 themerits	of  this case it would obviously have  been  a	casewhich should have been referred to the ordinary civil court.This, however, is now a matter of purely academic interest.The  question which still remains to be considered is:	Whatwould be the proper order to make on the present petition inview of our conclusion that the11second respondent had no jurisdiction to entertain the firstrespondent's application.  The present petition purports  toinvoke	our jurisdiction under Art. 32 of  the	Constitutionand  it was a valid and competent petition in so far  as  itchallenged  the	 vires of s. 17 itself; but, once s.  17  isheld  to  be  valid  and in order,  the	 competence  of	 thepetition  under	 Art.  32  is  naturally  open	to   seriousjeopardy.   No question about the fundamental rights of	 thepetitioner  is involved and his grievance against the  orderpassed	by the second respondent cannot be ventilated  by  apetition under Art. 32.	 This position is fairly conceded bythe learned counsel for the petitioner.	 He, however, arguedthat,  if we construe s. 17 in his favour and hold that	 thesecond respondent had no jurisdiction to entertain the firstrespondent's  application, his purpose would be	 effectivelyserved	even though technically his petition may  ultimatelybe  dismissed on the ground that it is not  competent  underArt.  32  of  the Constitution.	 In our	 opinion,  there  isconsiderable force in this contention.	We would accordinglyhold  that  the	 second respondent has	no  jurisdiction  toentertain the first respondent's application; but, since thepetition  itself  is not competent under Art. 32,  we  woulddirect that the petition fails on this technical ground	 andmust be dismissed.  There would be no order as to costs.Petition dismissed.12