PETITIONER:THE BHOPAL SUGAR INDUSTRIES LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE INCOME-TAX OFFICER, BHOPALDATE OF JUDGMENT:02/09/1960BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALACITATION: 1961 AIR  182		  1961 SCR  (1) 474 CITATOR INFO : D	    1961 SC 402	 (10,14) F	    1984 SC 898	 (12)ACT:Directions by  superior Tribunals-If could be refused to  becarried out-Principles of administration of justice.HEADNOTE:The  Income-tax	 Appellate Tribunal in the exercise  of	 itsappellate  jurisdiction	 gave  certain	directions  to	 therespondent,  an Income-tax Officer, in connection  with	 theascertainment of the market value of sugarcane grown by	 theappellant at their farm and used by them for the manufactureof  sugar.   The appellant asked the Income_tax	 Officer  togive effect to the said order and directions of the Tribunalbut  was informed that no relief could be given.   Thus	 theIncome-tax Officer failed to carry out the directions of theTribunal.Held,  that the refusal to carry out the directions which  asuperior  Tribunal  had given in exercise of  its  appellatepowers	was  in effect a denial of justice and	was  furthermore destructive			    475of  one	 of the basic principles in  the  administration  ofjustice	 based	as it is in this country on a  hierarchy  ofcourts;	 and the result of such refusal would lead to  chaosin the administration  of justice.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 407 of 1956.Appeal from the judgment and order dated February 14,  1956,of  the	 former Judicial Commissioner's	 Court,	 Bhopal,  inMisc.  Civil Case No. 24 of 1955.Sanat P. Mehta and S. N. Andley, for the appellant.K.   N. Rajagopal Sastri and D. Gupta, for the respondent.1960.  September 2. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyS.   K. DAS J.-This is an appeal on a certificate under Art.133 of the Constitution.  The short question for decision iswhether the learned Judicial Commissioner of Bhopal  rightlydismissed a petition under Art. 226 of the Constitution madeby   the  Bhopal  Sugar	 Industries,  Limited,	 hereinafterreferred to as the appellant company, praying for the  issueof an appropriate order or direction in the nature of a writof  mandamus  to  compel  the  Income-tax  Officer,  Bhopal,respondent herein, to carry-out certain directions given  bythe  Income-tax	 Appellate  Tribunal, Bombay,  to  the	saidofficer in an appeal preferred by the appellant company froman order of assessment made against it by the respondent.The  relevant  facts  are these.   The	appellant  companycarries	 on the business of manufacturing and selling  sugarin  various  grades and quantities.  It has its	 factory  atSehore	which  was formerly in the Bhopal State and  is	 nowsituate in the State of Madhya Pradesh.	 It purchased sugar-cane from local cultivators and also grew its own sugar-canein  farms situate in that State, such sugar-cane being	usedfor  its manufacture of sugar.	During the year	 of  accountending	 on  September	30,  1950,  the	 appellant   companypurchased 7,72,217 maunds of sugar-cane from local61476cultivators  at	 various purchasing centers, 14	 in  number,situate	 at  a	distance of about 8 to	22  miles  from	 itsfactory.  The price paid was Rs. 1-4-6 per maund, that beingthe  price fixed, by the then State of Bhopal.	The  averagecost of transporting the sugar-cane from the various centersto the factory was stated to be Rs. 0-4-9 per maund.  Duringthe  same period the appellant company grew its	 own  sugar-cane  to the extent of 6,78,490 maunds and brought the	samealong  with the cultivators' sugar-cane to its	factory	 formanufacturing  sugar.  For the sugar-cane grown on  its	 ownfarms the appellant company claimed Rs. 1-13-0 per maund  asits  market value (including Rs. 0-4-9 as average  transportcharges),  the total market value for 6,78,490	maunds	thuscoming	to  Rs. 12,29,763.  The appellant  company  deductedfrom  the aforesaid, market value a sum of Rs.	9,77,772  asagricultural  expenses,	 namely,  expenses  of	 harvesting,loading,  etc., and claimed the balance of Rs.	2,51,991  asagricultural  income to be deducted from the computation  ofits  total  income  for the assessment	year  1951-52.	 Therespondent   accepted	the  figure  of	 Rs.   9,77,772	  asagricultural  expenses	but  computed the  market  value  of6,78,490  maunds  of  sugar-cane  grown	 on  the   appellantcompany's own farms at Rs. 9,33,000 at the rate of Rs. 1-6-0per  maund; thus according to this computation there  was  aloss of Rs. 44,772 and the respondent held in his assessmentorder  that the appellant company was not entitled to  claimany  deduction	of agricultural income	for  the  assessmentyear.The  appellant	company	 then  appealed	 to  the   AppellateAssistant  Commissioner,  Jubbalpore,  who  determined	 themarket	value  of  the sugar-cane  grown  on  the  appellantcompany's own farms at Rs. 10,07,132 at the rate of Rs. 1-7-9 per maund.  This resulted in an agricultural income of Rs.29,360,	 which the Appellate Assistant Commissioner  allowedto  be deducted from the total income of the appellant	com-pany.Not  satisfied	with the order of  the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner, the appellant company preferred			    477an appeal to the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal, Bombay, andclaimed that the market value of the sugar-cane grown on itsfarms  should  be Rs. 1-13-0 per maund and  not	 Rs.  1-7-9.There  was  no	dispute	 before	 the  Tribunal	as  to	 theagricultural  expenses, and the question which the  Tribunalhad to decide related to the market value of 6,78,490 maundsof  sugar-cane grown on the appellant company's	 own  farms.After referring to r. 23 of the Income-tax Rules and certainother matters, the Tribunal said:" We are, therefore, inclined to think that 'market'  withinthe  meaning of rule 23 is not the centers but	the  factorywhere  the assessee company manufactures sugar.	 This  beingthe position in order to find out the market value, we	haveto  add	 the  transport	 charges from  the  centers  to	 thefactory.   We were told that the transport charges  amountedto  Rs.	 0-4-9 per maund.  We have not been able  to  verifythis  figure.	In our opinion,	 therefore,  the  sugar-caneproduced-by the assessee company in its own farms has to  bevalued	at  Rs. 1-4-6 per maund plus the  average  transportcharges per maund from the centers to the factory".The  Tribunal  then  gave the following	 directions  to	 therespondent :"  We  would, therefore, direct the  Income-tax	 Officer  toascertain  the average transport charges per maund from	 thecenters to the factory and to add to it the rate of Rs. 1-4-6  per mand and on that basis work out the market  value  ofthe  sugar-cane	 grown by the assessee company	in  its	 ownfarms.	If the market value comes to more than Rs. 1-7-9 permaund  further relief to the necessary extent will be  givenby the Income-tax Officer.  If, however, the market value isless than Rs. 1-7-9 the appeal must fail ".The Commissioner of Income-tax then applied to the  Tribunalfor  a	reference  under s. 66(1)  of  the  Income-tax	Act,stating	 that a question of law arose out of the  Tribunal'sorder  in as much as the Tribunal was not justified, in	 theopinion of the Department, to add average transport  chargesto the price of478Rs.  1-4-6  per maund of sugar-cane grown by  the  appellantcompany.   This	 application  woos,  however,  withdrawn  onAugust 4, 1954.	 The order of the Tribunal thus became finaland was binding on the parties.In the meantime, the appellant company moved the  respondentto  give  effect to the directions of the  Tribunal.   Aftersome abortive correspondence between the respondent and	 hishigher officers on one side and the appellant company on theother,	the  respondent informed the  appellant	 company  onMarch 24, 1955, that no relief could be given to it.  In hisletter of that date the respondent said:"In  this connection your attention is invited to the  orderof  the Tribunal to ascertain the cost of transportation  ofthe  sugar-cane	 from the farms to the factory	which  couldonly  be considered in working out the market value  of	 theagricultural produce.  As is evident from your account booksyou  are found to have debited a sum of Rs. 59,116 only	 outof  the total transportation expenses to  your	agriculturalproduce account.  Naturally, therefore, only the expenses soincurred by you can be considered in working out the  marketvalue  of  the	agricultural  sugar-cane.   By	adding	 thetransportation charges to the valuation of sugar-cane at Rs.1/4/6  on 6,78,490 maunds of agricultural produce the  totalcost  of  the agricultural produce would  be  Rs.  9,28,431.Against	 this  by  the	order  of  the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner  the  value of the farm cane was taken  at	 Rs.10,07,132  and thus the excess allowance of Rs.	 78,701	 hasalready	 been allowed to you.  Thus as the market  value  ofthe  agricultural  produce does not in any case	 exceed	 Rs.1-7-9  as held by the Appellate Assistant  Commissioner	 theresult of the Tribunal's order as per their finding given inpara  8	 of the order results in no relief  being  given  toyou."It  is	worthy	of note here that  while  the  Tribunal	 haddirected  the respondent to ascertain the average  transportcharges	 from  the centers to the  factory,  the  respondentreferred  to  the  cost of transportation  from	 the  farms-to the factory.	 Clearly enough, the respondent misread	 thedirection of the Tribunal and failed			    479to  carry  it  out.  He proceeded on a basis  which  was  incontravention of the direction of the Tribunal.In  these  circumstances, the appellant	 company  moved	 theJudicial Commissioner, Bhopal, then exercising the powers ofa  High	 Court	for that area, for the issue of	 a  writ  tocompel	the respondent to carry out the directions given  bythe  Tribunal.	The learned Judicial Commissioner  found  inexpress terms that the respondent had acted arbitrarily	 andin clear violation of the directions given by the Tribunal ;in other words, he found that the respondent had disregardedthe  order  of the Tribunal, failed to carry  out  his	dutyaccording  to  law and had acted  illegally.   Having  foundthis,  the learned Judicial Commissioner went on to  examinethe  correctness or otherwise of the order of  the  Tribunaland  found that the Tribunal went wrong in not treating	 thecenters	 as  'markets' within the meaning of r.	 23  of	 theIncome-tax  Rules.  He then came to the conclusion  that  inview  of the error committed by the Tribunal, there  was  nomanifest injustice as a result of the order of the  respond-ent  ;	accordingly, he dismissed the  application  for	 theissue of a writ made by the appellant company.We think that the learned Judicial Commissioner was  clearlyin error in holding that no manifest injustice resulted fromthe  order  of the respondent conveyed in his  letter  datedMarch  24,  1955.  By that order  the  respondent  virtuallyrefused	 to  carry  out	 the  directions  which	 a  superiortribunal  had  given  to him in exercise  of  its  appellatepowers	in  respect of an order of assessment made  by	him.Such  refusal  is  in effect a denial  of  justice,  and  isfurthermore  destructive of one of the basic  principles  inthe administration of justice based as it is in this countryon a hierarchy of courts.  If a subordinate tribunal refusesto  carry out directions given to it by a superior  tribunalin the exercise of its appellate powers, the result will  bechaos  in the administration of justice and we	have  indeedfound  it  very	 difficult  to	appreciate  the	 process  ofreasoning  by which the learned Judicial Commissioner  whileroundly condemning the respondent for refusing to carry	 outthe directions of the superior480tribunal, yet held that no manifest injustice resulted	fromsuch refusal.It  must be remembered that the order of the Tribunal  datedApril 22, 1954, was not under challenge before the  JudicialCommissioner.	That order had become final and	 binding  onthe parties, and the respondent could not question it in anyway.  As a matter of fact the Commissioner of Income-tax hadmade  an application for a reference, which application	 wassubsequently  withdrawn.  The Judicial Commissioner was	 notsitting in appeal over the Tribunal and we do not think thatin the circumstances of this case it was open to him to	 saythat  the  order of the Tribunal was wrong  and,  therefore,there  was no injustice in disregarding that order.   As  wehave  said earlier, such view is destructive of one  of	 thebasic principles of the administration of justice.In  fairness to him it must be stated that  learned  counselfor  the respondent did not attempt to support the  judgmentof the Judicial Commissioner on the ground that no  manifestinjustice  resulted  from the refusal of the  respondent  tocarry  out  the	 directions  of	 a  superior  tribunal.	  Heconceded that even if the order of the Tribunal was wrong, asubordinate and inferior tribunal could not disregard it; hereadily recognised the sanctity and importance of the  basicprinciple  that	 a subordinate tribunal must carry  out	 thedirections of a superior tribunal.  He argued, however, thatthe  order  of	the  Tribunal  was  unintelligible  and	 therespondent  did his best to understand it according  to	 hislight.	 This argument advanced on behalf of the  respondentappears	 to  us	 to be somewhat disingenuous.	We  find  nodifficulty  in understanding the order of the  Tribunal;  itdirected the respondent " to ascertain the average transportcharges per maund from the centers to the factory and add toit  the	 rate of Rs. 1-4-6 per maund  of  sugar-cane".	 Thedirection is clear and unambiguous.  The respondent  insteadof ascertaining the average transport charges per maund fromthe  centers  to  the factory,	referred  to  the  transportcharges	 from the farms to the factory and on  that  footingdisregarded the directions of the Tribunal ; for-'			    481the  respondent	 to  say thereafter that the  order  of	 theTribunal was not intelligible betrays a regrettable lack  ofcandour.  We must, therefore, reject the argument of learnedcounsel for the respondent.The   learned  Judicial	 Commissioner  referred	  to   threedecisions in support of the proposition that a direction  ororder in the nature of a writ of mandamus cannot be  claimedas  of right, nor need such a writ issue for every  omissionor  irregularity; Bimal Chand v. Chairman, Jiagunj  AzimgunjMunicipality  (1); Gram Panchayat, Vidul of Vidul  v.  MultiPurpose	 Co-operative  Society	of  Vidul  (2)	and  Messrs.Senairam Doongarmall v. Commr. of Income Tax, Assam (3).  Inthe  view which we have expressed, namely, that by  the	 im-pugned order the respondent failed to carry out a legal dutyimposed	 on him and such failure was destructive of a  basicprinciple  of  justice, a writ of mandamus should  issue  exdebito	justiciae to compel the respondent to carry out	 thedirections   given  to	him  by	 the  Income-tax   AppellateTribunal,  Bombay,  and it is unnecessary  to  consider	 thedecisions  referred to above except merely to state that  innone of them arose any question of condoning a refusal by aninferior tribunal to carry out the directions given to	thattribunal by a superior tribunal in the undoubted exercise ofits  appellate powers, on the ground that the order  of	 thesuperior tribunal was wrong.We  must,  therefore,  allow  this  appeal,  set  aside	 thejudgment  and  order  of  the  Judicial	 Commissioner  datedFebruary   14,	1956  and  issue  an  order  directing	 therespondent to carry out the directions given by the  Income-tax  Appellate Tribunal, Bombay, in its judgment  and  orderdated  April  22,  1954.   The	appellant  company  will  beentitled to its costs in the proceedings before the JudicialCommissioner and in this Court.Appeal allowed.(1) A.I.R. 1954 Cal 285.(2) A.I.R. 1954 Nag. 82.(3) A.I.R. 1955 Assam 201.482