PETITIONER:M/S.  SASA MUSA SUGAR WORKS (P) LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:SHOBRATI KHAN AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:29/04/1959BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1959 AIR  923		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 836 CITATOR INFO : R	    1959 SC1111	 (7) R	    1959 SC1342	 (17,18,19) E	    1963 SC1756	 (8) R	    1964 SC 708	 (29,30) R	    1965 SC1803	 (11) R	    1972 SC 136	 (33) RF	    1972 SC1031	 (51) D	    1976 SC1760	 (7,12) RF	    1979 SC1652	 (18) RF	    1980 SC1896	 (152)ACT:Industrial  Dispute-Go-slow-Employer's application for	Per-mission to dismiss workmen-Tribunal's power-Perverse findingGrant  of  Permission-Industrial Disputes Act, 1947  (14  Of1947),s. 33.HEADNOTE:Pending	 an adjudication proceeding between the workmen	 andthe  Mills,  the management of the  appellant  Mills  servednotices	 on  thirty-three  of  its  workmen  and  thereaftersuspended them for taking a leading part in a protracted go-slow  in contravention of the Industrial Disputes Act.	 Forsimilar	 reasons, a few days later, it again served  similarnotices	 on fifteen others and suspended  them.	  Thereafterthe  management	 made two applications under s.	 33  Of	 theIndustrial  Disputes Act for permission to dismiss the	saidworkmen.   The	forty-eight workmen in	their  turn  appliedunder  s.  33A of the Act alleging breach of s.	 33  by	 themanagement  in	suspending them by way of  punishment.	 TheIndustrial Tribunal found that the suspension was not by wayof punishment and that there was a deliberate resort to	 go-slow  by the workmen which was unjustified; it	refused	 thepermission  with  respect to sixteen of the workmen  on	 theground	of  want  of  evidence	but  granted  leave  to	 themanagement  to	suspend	 the  rest  for	 seven	days,	thusdisallowing the prayer for dismissal.  It also rejected	 theworkmen's application under s. 33A of the Act.	Appeals werefiled by both the parties and when they came up for hearing,the Appellate Tribunal allowed the workmen to withdraw theirappeal	so far as it related to their application  under  S.33A  of	 the Act, with the result that the  finding  of	 theTribunal  that the suspension was not a punishment but	onlypending enquiry by the management and proceedings before theTribunal,  stood confirmed.  While agreeing with  all  otherfindings  of the Tribunal, the Appellate Tribunal  took	 theview  that  the	 suspension ordered  by	 the-management	 wassubstantive punishment since the notices did not state	thatit  was pending enquiry, and the subsequent application	 forpermisson  to dismiss the workmen was, therefore, mala	fideand dismissed the appeal of the management.Held,	that  the  material  findings  arrived	at  by	 theIndustrial  Tribunal not having been upset by the  AppellateTribunal, the only possible order on the applications of themanagement  under  s.  33 of the Act was  to  permit  it  todismiss the workmen provided there was evidence against themall.   It  was	not  open  to  the  Industrial	Tribunal  tosubstitute   some  other  form	of  punisliment	  and	givepermission therefor.837The Appellate Tribunal was clearly in error in holding	thatsuspension,  in the instant case, was not an  interim  orderpending	 .enquiry and proceedings before the Tribunal  underS.  33, but substantive punishment, contrary to the  findingof the Industrial Tribunal which stood confirmed by its	 ownorder permitting the withdrawal of the appeal against it  bythe workmen.The  finding  of the Industrial Tribunal that there  was  noevidence  against  sixteen workmen was, on the face  of	 it,perverse,  since the evidence against them was the  same  asagainst the thirty-two others.As  go-slow was serious misconduct, insidious in nature	 andcould not be countenanced, and since the workmen were  foundguilty	of such misconduct, the management must	 be  grantedthe permission to dismiss them.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 746 and 747of 1957.Appeals by special leave from the judgments and orders datedJune  3,  1955, and May 21, 1956, of  the  Labour  AppellateTribunal  of India, Calcutta, in Appeal No. Cal. 366/52	 andMisc.  Case No. 145 of 1955 respectively, arising out of  anAward dated September 22, 1952, of the Industrial  Tribunal,Bihar,	and published in the Bihar State Government  Gazetteon October 21, 1952.M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India andR.   C. Prasad, for the appellant.The respondent did not appear.1959.  April 29.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byWANCHOO,  J.-These  are	 two appeals by	 the  management  byspecial	 leave	in an industrial matter arising out  of	 twoapplications  under  s. 33 of the  Industrial  Disputes	 Act(hereinafter  called  the Act).	 The facts of the  case	 arebriefly	 these	: The appellant, Messrs.   Sasa	 Musa  SugarWorks  (Private) Ltd. is a sugar factory in  District  Saran(Bihar).   The	factory was established in  1932.   In	June1942,  a  trade union was formed in this factory.   In	July1943,  trouble arose between the workmen and the  managementresulting  in the discharge of three office-bearers  of	 theunion, including one Shams-ud-din, who was then the838joint secretary.  That matter ",as referred to	adjudicationand the discharged workmen were ordered to be reinstated  inthe beginning of 1944.	In December 1944, there was  troubleagain  and  a  large  number  of  workmen  were	  dismissed,including Shams-ud-din, who had by now become the  presidentof  the	 union.	  This	dispute was  again  referred  to  anIndustrial  Tribunal, which again ordered  reinstatement  ofthe  dismissed workmen in August 1947.	There was peace	 forsome  time  after this.	 But in June  1951,  the  managementagain discharged seventeen workmen, including  Shams-ud-din,who  was at that time secretary of the union.	The  troublecontinued up to December 1951, when an agreement was arrivedat  between  the union and the management, as  a  result  ofwhich  twelve  of  the workmen	were  reinstated  but  five,including Shams-ud-din, were not and their cases were to  bereferred to adjudication.  It appears, however, that anotherreference between the management and its workmen was alreadypending	 since	September  8,  1951,  before  an  IndustrialTribunal,  when this agreement was arrived  at.	  Thereafterthe  work in the factory proceeded smoothly for	 some  time.But on January 1, 1952, a notice was issued by the union  tothe  management enlisting as many as 40 demands and  it	 wasthreatened  that  if the demands were not met  within  sevendays,  the union would have to advise the work-men to  adoptgo-slow and call upon them to offer passive resistance	witheffect	from January 9, 1952, and take all legitimate  meansto see that the decision of go-slow was carried out till thedemands	 of  the  union were  fulfilled.   This	 notice	 wasreceived  by the management on January 4, which	 immediatelycontacted  the officers of the Labour Department as well  asthe  Sub-Divisional Magistrate at Gopalganj.  On January  8,the  Deputy Labour Commissioner wrote to the union  that  asthe conciliation officer was busy in the general  elections,the status quo should be maintained till the elections	wereover,  so  that	 the  matter might be  looked  into  by	 theconciliation  officer.	The union, however, gave no heed  tothis advice and go-slow began from January 9 and839was  continued	till  January 12,  1952.   Then	 the  LabourCommissioner  himself came to the factory on January 12	 andadvised Shams-ud-din who was the s moving spirit behind	 allthis  to call off the go-slow, as it was proposed  to  startconciliation  proceedings  at  Patna on	 January  17,  1952.Conciliation  proceedings  then began on January 17  and  anagreement  was	arrived	 at as to some	of  the	 demands  onJanuary	 23,  and it was decided that  further	conciliationproceedings would be held in February.	But in spite of thisagreement  go-slow was again resorted to from January 24  toJanuary 31.  In the meantime, the Labour Officer had arrivedat  the factory on January 28, 1952, and further talks	tookplace.	The workmen, however, did not pay heed to the adviceof  the Labour Officer.	 He, therefore, reported on  January31  to	the  Labour  Commissioner  that	 go-slow  was  stillcontinuing.  The Labour Commissioner then ordered the LabourOfficer	 to  tell the workmen that no  further	conciliationproceedings would take place until the goslow was called of.The  Labour  Officer then informed the	management  that  itcould take disciplinary action against the workmen concernedwith   the   permission	  of   the   Industrial	   Tribunal.Consequently, the management suspended thirty-three  workmenby  a  notice  given  on the night of  January	31  as	fromFebruary  1.  It was said in the notice that  these  thirty-three  workmen had been found taking a leading part  in	 theunjustified  go-slow which was in contravention of  the	 Actand they were therefore suspended from service until furtherorders.	 This notice had some good effect and work  improvedfor four days; but from February 5 goslow was started again.Consequently,  the management suspended seven  more  workmenfrom  February	6 and eight more from February 7  by  givingnotice	to  them in the same terms in which the	 notice	 hadbeen  given to the thirty-three workmen, on January 31.	  Asadjudication  proceedings were pending since September	1951between	 the management and its workmen, the former  appliedon  February 6, 1952, under s. 33 of the Act for  permissionto  dismiss  the thirty-three workmen and  on  February	 11,1952, for permission to840dismiss the remaining fifteen workmen who had been suspendedlater.	 The  forty-eight workmen in their turn	 applied  onMarch  29, 1952, under s. 33-A of the Act to the  IndustrialTribunal and their case was that they had been suspended  asa  measure of punishment and that as this was  done  withoutthe sanction of the Industrial Tribunal, the management	 hadcommitted a breach of s. 33.The three applications were tried together by the IndustrialTribunal and the contentions raised before it were these :(1)  The management's applications under s. 33 had not	beenpreceded  by any enquiry into the misconduct of the  workmenand were, therefore, liable to be rejected ;(2)  The  order	 of  suspension in  this  case	amounted  topunishment and therefore s. 33 had been contraven-ed; and(3)  There  was	 an unjustified go-slow by  the	 workmen  inJanuary and February 1952.On  the first point, the Industrial Tribunal found  that  Doenquiry	 had  been  held by the management  before  the	 twoapplications,  under s. 33 were made; but it held  that	 allthe  evidence which could have been taken in the enquiry  bythe  management	 had been led before it and it was  in	fullpossession of the facts, and no question of any prejudice tothe workmen arose, as it would be open to it on a review  ofthe entire evidence before it to decide whether the applica-tions  for permission to dismiss should be granted  or	not.On  the second point, it held that the order  of  suspensionwas  not as a measure of punisment in the  circumstances  ofthis  case and that it was an order pending enquiry  by	 themanagement  and proceedings under s. 33 before the  tribunaland that, as there were no Standing Orders as to  suspensionin  this  factory,  the management's liability	to  pay	 theworkmen	  their	 wages	during	the  period  of	  suspensionremained.   On	the third point,  the  Industrial  Tribunal,after an elaborate discussion of the evidence, came to	the'conclusion  that there was a deliberate go-slow resorted  toby the workmen in January and February 1952 and841that it was unjustified as it took place while	conciliationproceedings were pending.Having	given  these findings, the Industrial  Tribunal	 hadthen   to  decide  what	 orders	 it  should  pass   on	 theapplications  under s. 33 and s. 33-A.	It held	 that  therewas  no	 evidence to show that of  the	forty-eight  workmenconcerned, sixteen workmen named by it had taken part in thego-slow	  or  instigated  it.	It  therefore  refused	 theapplication  under  s.	33 with	 respect  to  these  sixteenworkmen.  As to the remaining thirtytwo workmen it held thatas  some Standing Orders which were under  contemplation  atthe  time provided either dismissal or suspension for  sevendays in case of misconduct, it was proper to grant leave  tothe  management	 to suspend the workmen for seven  days,  inview  of  some	opinion expressed  by  a  Go-Slow  Committeeappointed  some time before by the Bihar Central  (Standing)Labour	Advisory Board.	 In effect, therefore,	it  rejectedthe  prayer of the management for dismissal with respect  tothese  thirty-two  workmen also.  Finally, it  rejected	 theapplication under s. 33-A.This  award led to two appeals before the  Labour  AppellateTribunal; one was by the management against the entire awardso  far as it related to its applications under s.  33,	 andthe  other  by the workmen against the	dismissal  of  theirapplication under s. 33-A and against the award relating  tothe  applications of the management under s. 33.   When	 thematter	came up for hearing before the	Appellate  Tribunal,the  workmen  withdrew their appeal with  respect  to  theirapplication under s. 33-A and it was consequently dismissed.The result of the dismissal of the appeal of the workmen wasthat  the  finding  of	the  Industrial	 Tribunal  that	 thesuspension was not a punishment and was only pending enquiryby  the management and the proceedings before the  tribunal,stood confirmed.As  to	the *appeal by the management with  respect  to	 theapplications  under  s. 33, it was contended on	 its  behalfbefore	the Appellate Tribunal that the Industrial  Tribunalhad gone wrong on two substantial questions of law, namely-(1) the Industrial Tribunal could either grant or106842refuse	permission  to dismiss on an  application  for	suchpermission  under s. 33 and it could not substitute its	 ownjudgment about the quantum of punishment; and(2)  it	 was  wrong in rejecting  the  applications  againstsixteen workmen on the ground that there was no evidence.The   Appellate	 Tribunal  was	of  the	 opinion  that	 thecontention  of	the  management on  both  these	 points	 wascorrect	 and that the appeal involved substantial  questionsof  law.   It  also found  that	 the  Industrial  Tribunal'sfinding	 that  the workmen had resorted to go-slow  was	 notperverse and could be the only finding on the evidence.	  Itthen went on to say that go-slow was insidious in nature andcould	not  be	 countenanced,	and  that  it  was   seriousmisconduct  normal punishment for which was  dismissal.	  Italso  held  that the Industrial Tribunal was  not  right  inrelying	 upon the recommendations of the  Go-Slow  Committeeand  the  contemplated Standing Orders which were  not	tillthen in force.	Having said all this, we should have expect-ed that the Appellate Tribunal would set aside the order  ofthe   Industrial  Tribunal  and	 grant	permission  to	 themanagement  to	dismiss	 the workmen for  what	was  seriousmisconduct  of	an  insidious  nature  which  could  not  becountenanced.	But  it	 went on to say	 that  it  was	wellsettled	 that where an employer could not punish  a  workmanwithout obtaining permission from the tribunal under s.	 33,an  application for permission would be mala fide if it	 wasmade after any punishment had already been meted out to	 theworkman.   It held that in the present case, the  suspensionof the workmen by the management was substantive punishment,because	 the notice did not in so many words state  that  itwas  pending  enquiry  and therefore  the  applications	 forpermission having been made after punishment had been  metedout  were  mala	 fide.	In coming to  this  conclusion,	 theAppellate  Tribunal  seems  to have forgotten  that  it	 hadalready	 dismissed the appeal of the workmen from the  orderof the Industrial Tribunal on their application under s. 33-A,  which in effect amounted to confirming the order of	 theIndustrial Tribunal that the suspension was not a punishmentbut was rightly made pending enquiry by843the  management	 and proceedings before the  tribunal.	 TheAppellate  Tribunal supported its decision on this  questionof  punishment	by  stating  that  the	mala  fides  of	 themanagement  were  clear	 from  the  fact  that	though	 thesuspensions had been made between January 31 and February 7,1952,  the application was filed by the management on  March29, 1952, after the application by the workmen under s.	 33-A  had been filed.  This observation was clearly wrong,	 forthe applications under s. 33 were filed on February 6 and 11by the management, and it was the application of the workmenunder  s.  33-A which was filed on March  29.	Having	thusinverted  the order in which the applications were  made  tothe Industrial Tribunal, the Appel. late Tribunal held	thatthe applications of the management under s. 33 were Dot bonafide.  It then dismissed the appeal of the management,	thusupholding the order of the Industrial Tribunal so far as thesuspension  of	thirty-two workmen for seven days  was	con-cerned	on the ground that the workmen had  withdrawn  theirappeal, though in the earlier part of the judgment all	that-was  said was that the workmen had withdrawn  their  appealagainst the order under s. 33-A.As  the Appellate Tribunal had obviously made a mistake	 andinverted  the order in which the applications under  ss.  33and  33-A had been made, a review application was  filed  bythe management.	 It, however, held that though the dates hadbeen  wrongly  mentioned by accident, it saw  no  reason  toreview	its  order.  That is how the  management  filed	 twospecial leave petitions in this Court. We  are of opinion that on the findings of  the  IndustrialTribunal on the three points formulated by it which have notbeen  upset  by	 the  Appellate	 Tribunal,  the	 only  orderpossible  on the applications of the management under s.  33was  to	 permit	 it to dismiss	the  forty  -eight  workmen,provided  there was evidence against them all.	It  was	 notopen  to the Industrial Tribunal when it was asked  to	givepermission  to	dismiss	 to substitute some  other  kind  ofpunishment  and	 give permission for that.   The  IndustrialTribunal  was satisfied that there was misconduct  and	thatfinding has been upheld by the Appellate Tribunal.  As such844if  there was evidence that these forty-eight  workmen	wereguilty	of misconduct, the Industrial Tribunal was bound  toaccord	permission  asked  for.	 We cannot  agree  with	 theAppellate  Tribunal  that the suspension in  this  case	 wassubstantive punishment and was not an interim order  pendingenquiry and proceedings before the Industrial Tribunal unders. 33.	We have already pointed out that the Labour  Officertold the management on January 31, 1952, that it was free totake   disciplinary  action  with  the	permission  of	 theIndustrial  Tribunal.	It was thereafter  that	 thirtythreeworkmen were suspended on January 31 and the notice  clearlysaid  that the suspension was pending further  orders,	thusintimating  to the workmen that the order of suspension	 wasan interim measure.  This notice of January 31 was  followedby  an application on February 6 to the Industrial  Tribunalfor permission to dismiss the thirty-three workmen  involvedin  it, and this also clearly shows that the suspension	 waspending	 enquiry (if any) by the management and	 proceedingsbefore	the Industrial Tribunal.  Similarly, the  suspensionnotices of February 5 and 6 relating to fifteen workmen saidthat  they  were  suspended till  further  orders  and	werefollowed on February II by an application under s. 33 to theIndustrial Tribunal for permission to dismiss them.  In	 thecircumstances it is quite clear that suspension in this casewas  not  a punishment but was an  interim  measure  pendingenquiry	 and  proceedings  before  the	tribunal.   We	havealready	 pointed  out  that  this was  the  finding  of	 theIndustrial  Tribunal on the basis of which  the	 applicationunder s. 33-A was dismissed and this finding stood confirmedwhen the workmen withdrew their appeal with respect to theirapplication under s. 33-A.  The Appellate Tribunal thereforewas  clearly in error in holding . that the  suspension	 waspunishment.The only question that remains is about the sixteen  workmenabout  whom the Industrial Tribunal held that there  was  noevidence  to connect them with the go-slow.   The  AppellateTribunal's  view in this matter was that the  contention  ofthe  management	 that the Industrial Tribunal was  wrong  inholding	 that  there was no evidence against  these  sixteenworkmen was845correct.   It  has been shown to us  that  evidence  againstthese  sixteen workmen is of exactly the same witnesses	 andof  the	 same  kind as the evidence  against  the  remainingthirty-two.   The  finding,  therefore,	 of  the  IndustrialTribunal  that	there was no evidence  against	the  sixteenworkmen	 is  patently  perverse,  for  there  was  the	sameevidence  against them as against the remaining	 thirty-two.It follows, therefore, that all the forty-eight workmen (twoof whom are since said to have died) are exactly in the sameposition.   As held by the.  Appellate Tribunal, go-slow  isserious	 misconduct  which is insidious in  its	 nature	 andcannot	be  countenanced.  In these circumstances  as  thesefortyeight workmen were taking part in the go-slow and	werethus  guilty  of  serious  misconduct,	the  management	 wasentitled  to  get permission to dismiss them.	But  as	 themanagement held no enquiry after suspending the workmen	 andproceedings under s. 33 were practically converted into	 theenquiry	 which	normally  the management  should  have	heldbefore	applying to the Industrial Tribunal, the  managementis  bound  to pay the wages of the workmen till a  case	 fordismissal was made out in the proceedings under s. 33;	(seethe decision of this Court in the Management of Ranipur Col-liery v. Bhuban Singh (1) ). As already pointed out, this isthe view taken by the Industrial Tribunal while dealing withthe  application under s. 33-A which stood confirmed by	 thedismissal of the appeal by the workmen in that behalf.	 Themanagement  will therefore have to pay the wages during	 theperiod	of  suspension	till the  award	 of  the  IndustrialTribunal.We  therefore allow the appeals and set aside the orders  ofthe two Tribunals so far as the applications under s. 33 areconcerned and grant the appellant the permission sought	 forby  it	in these applications subject to the  workmen  beingpaid  all their wages during the period of suspension up  tothe date of the award of the Industrial Tribunal, i. e., 22-9-1952.	  As  the workmen did not appear  to  contest  theseappeals, we pass no order as to costs.Appeals allowed.(1)  [1959] Suppl. 2 S.C.R. 719.846