PETITIONER:S.   Rm. Ar. S.	 Sp.  SATHAPPA CHETTIAR	Vs.RESPONDENT:S.   Rm. Ar.  Rm.  RAMANATHAN CHETTIARDATE OF JUDGMENT:28/11/1957BENCH:BOSE, VIVIANBENCH:BOSE, VIVIANDAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  228		  1958 SCR 1015ACT:   Court  fee, Computation of-Suit for enforcement of  sharein joint family Property-Plaintiff's valuation of the  claim-Value	for purposes of jurisdiction, if must be  the  same-Court-Fees  Act,  1870 (VII of 1870), s.  7  (IV)  (b)-SuitsValuation Act, 1887 (VII of 1887), s. 8.HEADNOTE:The  computation  of Court fees in suits  falling  under  s.7(IV) of the Court-Fees Act depends upon the valuation whichthe  plaintiff in his option puts on his claim and  once  heexercises  his option and values his claim, such value	mustalso be the value for purposes of jurisdiction under s. 8 ofthe  Suits Valuation Act.  The value for purposes  of  Courtfee,  therefore,  determines  the  value  for  purposes	  ofjurisdiction in such a suit and not vice versa.1022Where, therefore, the Court finds that the case falls  unders.  7(IV)(b)  of the Court-Fees Act, and the  plaintiff	 hasomitted	 to  specifically value his  claim,  liberty  shouldordinarily  be given to him to amend his plaint and set	 outthe amount at which he wants to value his claim.  The  valueput for purposes of jurisdiction which cannot be binding forpurposes of Court fee, and must be altered accordinglyKaram  Ilahi  v. Muhammad Bashir, A.I.R.  (1949)  Lah.	116,referred to.Consequently,  in the present case where the Division  Benchof the Madras High Court was of the opinion that s. 7(IV)(b)of the Court-Fees Act applied but nevertheless held that thevaluation  given in the plaint for purposes of	jurisdictionshould	be taken to be the valuation for purposes  of  courtfee and directed the appellant to pay court fees both on theplaint and the memorandum of appeal on that basis, its orderwas set aside and the appellant allowed to pay court fees onthe amount at which he valued his relief.Held further, that 0. 11, r. 1 of the High Court Fees Rules,1933,  framed  by the Madras High Court	 clearly  indicates,that  S.  12 of the Court Fees Act applies to  the  OriginalSide of the Madras High Court and it was, therefore, open tothe Division Bench in a reference to assume jurisdiction andpass appropriate orders thereunder.In the absence of any evidence on the record to show that hehad  either  generally or specially been  empowered  by	 theChief  justice in this behalf, the Chamber judge sitting  onthe   Original	Side  of  the  Madras  High  Court  has	  nojurisdiction  under  s. 5 Of the Court Fees Act	 to  pass  afinal order thereunder.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 203 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the orders dated	January	 25,1955,  of the Madras High Court in C.M.P. No. 9335  of	1954and S. R. No. 55247 of 1953.K.   S.	 Krishnaswamy  Iyengar,	 R. Ganapathy  Iyer  and  G.Gopalakrishnan, for the appellant.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India andM.   S. K. Sastri, for the respondent.Venkatakrishnan	 and  T. M. Sen, for the  intervener.  1957.November  28.	The  following Judgment	 of  the  Court	 wasdelivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR	J.-This is a plaintiff's appeal	 by  specialleave  against the order passed by a Division Bench  of	 theMadras High Court on January 25, 1955,1023calling	 upon him to pay court fees on the valuation of	 Rs.15,00,000 both on his plaint and on his memorandum of appealand  it raises some interesting questions of law  under	 theprovisions  of the Court Fees Act (which will  be  describedhereafter as the Act).The  appellant bad filed Civil Suit No. 311 of 1951  on	 theOriginal Side of the Madras High Court.	 In this suit be hadclaimed	 partition  of the joint family, properties  and  anaccount in respect of the joint family assets managed by therespondent.   The appellant is the son of Subbiah  Chettiar.His  case was that Subbiah had been adopted by Lakshmi	Achiin  1922.   Lakshmi  Achi was the  widow  of  the  undividedpaternal  uncle	 of  the respondent.  As  a  result  of	 hisadoption Subbiah became a coparcener in his adoptive  familyand, as Subbiah's son, the appellant claimed to have a sharein  the	 joint family properties and in the  assets  of	 thejoint  family  and that was the basis on which a  claim	 forpartition  and	accounts was made by the  appellant  in	 hissuit.	In the plaint it had been alleged that	Subbiah	 hadfiled  a suit for partition of his share and had obtained  adecree	in  the trial court.  The respondent  had  taken  anappeal	against the said decree in the High Court.   Pendingthe  appeal  the dispute was settled  amicably	between	 theparties	 and in consideration of payment of a specified	 sumand  delivery of possession of certain sites Subbiah  agreedto release all his claims and those of his son, the  presentappellant,  in	respect	 of the	 properties  then  in  suit.According to the appellant, this compromise transaction	 didnot  bind  the appellant and so he claimed  to	recover	 hisshare  ignoring the said transaction between his father	 andthe  respondent.  The plaint filed by the  appellant  valuedthe claim for accounts at Rs. 1,000 under s. 7(iv)(f) of theAct  and  a court fee of Rs. 112-7-0 was paid  on  the	saidamount on an ad valorem basis.	In regard to the relief	 forpartition  the	fixed court fee of Rs. 100 was paid  by	 theappellant  under  Art. 17-B (Madras) of Schedule II  of	 theAct.  For the purposes of jurisdiction, however, the  appel-lant gave Rs. 15,00,000 as the value of his share.1301024It  appears that the Registry, on examining the plaint,	 wasinclined to take the view that the plaint should have  bornecourt  fee  under  s.  7(v) in	respect	 of  the  claim	 forpartition.  Since the appellant did not accept this view thematter	was referred to the Master of the Court who was	 thetaxing officer under the Madras High Court Fees Rules, 1933.The Master felt that the issue raised by the Registry was ofsome importance and so, in his turn, he referred the disputeto the Judge sitting on the Original Side under s. 5 of	 theAct.   This  reference	was decided  by	 the  Chamber  JudgeKrishnaswamy  Naidu  J. on October 18,	1951.	The  learnedjudge held that the appellant was not bound to set aside theprior	compromise  decree  between  his  father   and	 therespondent and that the plaint was governed by Art. 17-B  ofSchedule  11.	Accordingly  the  court	 fee  paid  by	 theappellant in respect of his claim for partition was held  tobe in order.In  due	 course	 the respondent was served and	he  filed  awritten	 statement raising several contentions	against	 theappellant's  claim for partition and accounts.	One  of	 thepoints raised by the respondent was -that the compromise andthe release deed executed by the appellant's father and	 thedecree that was subsequently passed between the parties werefair and bona fide transactions and, since they amounted  toa  settlement  of  the disputed	 claim	by  the	 appellant'sfather, the plaintiff was bound by them.Ramaswamy   Gounder  J.	 who  heard  the  suit	 tried	 therespondent's  contention about the binding character of	 thecompromise decree as a preliminary issue.  The learned judgeheld  that there was a fair and bona fide settlement of	 thedispute	 by the appellant's father acting as the manager  ofhis branch and so the appellant was bound by the  compromisedecree.	  In the result, the appellant's suit was  dismissedon September 22, 1953.Against	 this decree the appellant presented his  memorandumof  appeal  on December 1, 1953.  This memorandum  bore	 thesame court fees as the plaint.	On examining the  memorandumof  appeal the Registry again raised the question about	 thesufficiency of1025fees paid by the appellant.  The Registry took the view thatthe  appellant should have paid court fees under s. 7(v)  ofthe  Act  in  respect  of his claim  for  partition  as	 theappellant's  claim in substance was a claim for recovery  ofpossession  based  on title within the meaning of  s.  7(v).The  matter  was then referred to the Master;  but,  in	 histurn,  the  Master again made a reference  to  the  TaxationJudge  under  s. 12(2) of the Act.   Thereupon	the  learnedChief Justice constituted a Bench of two judges to deal withthis reference.The learned judges who heard the reference did not think  itnecessary  to  consider	 whether  s.  12  of  the  Act	 wasapplicable  to	the  present appeal.  They  dealt  with	 thereference  as  made under s. 5 of the  Act.   The  appellanturged  before  the Division Bench that the order  passed  byKrishnaswami Naidu J. was final since it was an order passedunder  s. 5 of the Act.	 The learned judges did	 not  acceptthis  contention.   They held that the record did  not	showthat  Krishnaswamy Naidu J. had been nominated by the  ChiefJustice	 to.  hear  the reference under s.  5  either  by  ageneral	 or  a	special order and so no	 finality  could  beclaimed	 for the said order under s. 5 of the Act.   On	 themerits	the  learned judges agreed with the  view  taken  byKrishnaswamy Naidu J., and held that s. 7(v) of the Act	 wasnot  applicable	 to  the appellant's  claim  for  partition.According  to the learned judges, neither was Art.  17-B  ofSchedule II applicable.	 They held that the provisions of s.7(iv)(b)  of the Act applied. That is why the appellant	 wasdirected  to mention his value for the relief  of  partitionunder  the said section.  It may be mentioned at this  stagethat  this order became necessary because in the plaint	 theplaintiff  had not specifically mentioned the value for	 therelief	of partition claimed by him.  He had  merely  statedthat  for  the	relief of partition claimed by	him  he	 waspaying	a court fee of Rs. 100 in accordance  with  ScheduleII,  Art. 17-B.	 All that he had done in the plaint  was  tovalue his total claim for jurisdiction at Rs. 15,00,000.In compliance with this order the appellant valued1026his relief to enforce his right to share in the joint familyproperties in suit at Rs. 50,000, paid the deficit court feeRs.  1,662-7-0 and re-presented his memorandum of appeal  incourt on May 7, 1954.That,  however,	 was not the end of the present	 dispute  inrespect	  of  court  fees.   The  Registry  raised   anotherobjection  this time.  According to the Registry, since	 theappellant had valued his relief in the suit for purposes  ofjurisdiction  at  Rs. 15,00,000, it was not open to  him  tovalue  his  relief  on the memorandum  of  appeal  under  s.7(iv)(b)  without an amendment of the valuation made in	 theplaint.	 Since the appellant did not accept this view of theRegistry,  the matter was again placed before the court	 fororders.	  The appellant then offered to file an	 applicationfor  formal  amendment	of his plaint  by  substituting	 Rs.50,000,	 in place of Rs. 15,00,000, for	 the  jurisdictionalvalue  of  his	relief Accordingly  the	 appellant  made  anapplication  on	 October  18,1954.   This  application	 wasopposed both by the respondent and the Assistant  GovernmentPleader	 on  behalf of the State.  The	learned	 judges	 whoheard  this application took the view that if the  appellanthad  given the value in the first instance for	purposes  ofjurisdiction he was precluded from giving a different  valueat  a  later  stage.   Accordingly  it	was  held  that	 Rs.15,00,000,  which  had been mentioned in the plaint  as	 thevalue  of the appellant's claim for jurisdictional  purposesshould	be treated as the value given by the appellant	alsofor the purposes of court fees under s. 7(iv)(b) of the Act.The  result was that the application made by  the  appellantfor  a formal amendment of the valuation made in the  plaintwas rejected.  The learned judges also purported to exercisetheir  jurisdiction under s. 12(2) of the Act  and  directedthat  the  appellant should pay deficit court  fees  on	 thebasis of Rs. 15,00,000 not only on his memorandum of  appealbut  also on his plaint.  It is this order which  has  givenrise to the present appeal.The first point which Shri Krishnaswamy Ayyangar has  raisedbefore	us  on	behalf of the appellant is  that  the  orderpassed by the learned Chamber Judge on1027October	 18, 1951, is final under s. 5 of the Act.  By	thisorder  the  learned Chamber Judge had held that	 the  plaintfiled in the present suit did not attract the provisions  ofs. 7(v) of the Act and that the proper court fee to be	paidwas  determined	 by  Art. 17-B of Schedule II  of  the	Act.Since the appellant had paid the fixed court fee of Rs. 100,under this latter provision, no objection could be taken  onthe ground that sufficient court fee had not been paid.	  Ifthis  order bad really been passed under s. 5 of the Act  itwould  undoubtedly be final.  Section 5 of the Act  providesfor procedure in case of difference as to necessity of courtfee.  In cases where a difference arises between an  officerwhose  duty it is to see that any fee is paid under  ChapterIII  and a suitor as to the necessity of paying the  fee  orthe  amount  thereof, it has to be referred  to	 the  taxingofficer whose decision thereon shall be final.	This sectionfurther	 provides that if the taxing officer, to  whom	suchdifference is referred by the office, is of opinion that thepoint raised is one of general importance, he can refer	 thesaid point to the final decision of the Chief Justice of theHigh  Court  or such judge of the High Court  as  the  ChiefJustice shall appoint either generally or specially in	thisbehalf;	 and  it is clear that if the Chief Justice  or	 anyother  judge appointed in that behalf by the  Chief  Justicedecides the matter in question, his decision shall be final.Unfortunately,	however,  in the present. case it  has	beenfound  by  the Division Bench that dealt  with	this  mattersubsequently  that a search of the record did not  show	 anygeneral	 or  special order which would	have  justified	 theexercise of jurisdiction under s. 5 by Krishnaswamy Naidu J.No  doubt Shri Krishnaswamy Ayyangar stated before  us	thatthe  practice in the Madras High Court always was  to  referdisputes as to proper court fees arising between suitors  onthe Original Side and the Registry to the Chamber Judge	 andit was always assumed, says Shri Ayyangar, that the  ChamberJudge  on the Original Side was appointed generally to	dealwith such disputes.  It is difficult for us to make any suchassumption in dealing with the present suit.  Unless we	 aresatisfied1028from  the  record that Krishnaswamy Naidu J.,  bad,  at	 thematerial time, been appointed either generally or  speciallyto  act under s. 5, it would be difficult to accede  to	 theargument  that	the  order  passed by  him  in	the  presentproceedings  is	 final.	  It is frankly	 conceded  that	 therecord	does  not  show	 any general  or  special  order  ascontemplated  by  s. 5. That is why we must  hold  that	 thelearned judges of the Division Bench were right in  refusingto attach finality to the order passed by Krishnaswamy NaiduJ.It  is	then urged by Shri Krishnaswamy	 Ayyangar  that	 thelearned judges were in error in purporting to exercise theirjurisdiction  under s. 12(2) of the Act when  they  directedthe appellant to pay additional court fees on the plaint  onthe basis of the valuation of Rs. 15,00,000.  His contentionis  that  s. 12 does not apply to the appeals  arising	fromjudgments  and decrees passed in suits on the Original	Sideof  the	 Madras High Court.  It is perfectly true  that	 thequestion  about	 the levy of fees in High  Courts  on  theirOriginal  Sides is governed by s. 3 of the Act and,  if	 thematter had to be decided solely by reference to the Act,  itwould  not  be	possible  to apply  any	 of  the  provisionscontained  in  Chapter III of the Act either  to  the  suitsfiled  on the Original Side of the Madras High Court  or  tothe  appeals  arising  from judgments and  decrees  in	suchsuits.	 But it is common ground that, on the plaints  filedon  the Original Side of the Madras High Court,	 court	feesare  leviable  under the relevant  provisions  contained  inChapter	 III  of  the  Act and the levy	 of  these  fees  isauthorised  by	O. 11, r. I of the High	 Court	Fees  Rules,1933.	 It  is,  therefore,  necessary	 to   inquire	whatprovisions of the Act have been extended to the suits  filedon the Original Side.  The authority and jurisdiction of theMadras	High  Court  in enacting r. I of O. 11	are  not  indispute.  What is in dispute before us is the effect of	 thesaid  rule.   The  appellant's case is that  the  said	rulemerely contemplates the levy of certain specified court feesas  indicated  in  the	provisions  of	the  Act  which	 areexpressly  made applicable to the Original Side.   No  otherprovision of the Act, according to the appellant,1029can be said to have been extended and so the learned  judgeswere  in error in purporting to exercise their	jurisdictionunder s. 12(2).	 We are not satisfied that this argument  iswell-founded.  Order II, r. I reads thus:" O. II, r. 1 of Madras High Court Fees Rules, 1933:-Order II.1.   The fees and commissions set out in Appendix II  heretoshall be charged by the Registrar, Sheriff, The Reserve Bankof India and the Imperial Bank of India, as the case may be,upon the several documents, matters and transactions thereinspecified  as  chargeable.   The  commission  chargeable  toGovernment shall be charged by the Reserve Bank of India andcredited  to  Government.  *(To	 other	documents  includingMemoranda of appeals the Registrar shall apply so far as maybe  the law for the time being in force relating  to  court-fees, as regards the scale of such fees, the manner of	levyof  such  fees, the refund of such fees and in	every  otherrespect,  in  the  manner  and to  the	extent	that  it  isapplicable   to	  similar  documents   filed   in   originalproceedings in a District Court and in appeals from  decreesand orders of a District Court).*Added by R. 0. C. No. 2219 of 1949."It  cannot  be disputed that as a result of  this  rule,  s.7(iv) (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of the Act along	withthe  proviso as well as Art. 17-B of Schedule II of the	 Actapplied	 to  suits filed on the Original Side  of  the	HighCourt.	The latter portion of the order which has been addedin 1949 obviously makes applicable to the suits and  appealson the Original Side of the High Court provisions of the Actas  regards the scale of fees, the manner of their levy	 andthe  refund of fees.  It also makes the relevant  provisionsof  the Act applicable in "every other respect".  The  words"in  every  other respect" in the context  clearly  indicatethat s. 12 which confers upon the appellate court  authorityor jurisdiction to examine the question about the1030sufficiency or otherwise of the court fees paid not only  onthe  memorandum of appellant but also on the plaint  in	 thesuit  which  comes before the court of appeal  is  obviouslyintended  to apply.  It would indeed be illogical  to  applythe  relevant  provisions of the Act for the levy  of  courtfees  on plaints and memoranda of appeal and not  to  conferjurisdiction  on  the  appropriate  court  to  examine	 thesufficiency  or	 otherwise of the court fees  paid  in	thatbehalf.	  The power to entertain claims for refund of  courtfees  has been specifically mentioned.	A claim	 for  refundcan  be	 validly made, for instance in a case  where  excesscourt fee has been paid.  That is why the provisions of	 ss.13, 14 and 15 had to be applied in terms.  If a litigant  isentitled  to make a claim for refund of court fees in  casesgoverned  by  the  relevant provisions	of  the	 Act,  thereappears	 to  be no reason why it should not be open  to	 thecourt to entertain the question about inadequate payment  ofcourt fees.  Logically, if excess court fees paid should andcan   be  refunded  in	these  proceedings,  inadequate	  orinsufficient court fees paid can and should be dealt with onthat footing and orders passed to pay the deficit court feesin such cases.	It is matters of this kind that are  clearlycovered by the expression "in every other respect" to  whichwe have just referred.	We, therefore, hold that the learnedjudges	below were justified in assuming jurisdiction  undersub-ss.	 (1) and (2) of s. 12.	Section 12 consists  of	 twoparts.	Sub-section (1) provides that the question about theproper payment of court fees on the plaint or memorandum  ofappeal shall be decided by the court in which such plaint ormemorandum of appeal is filed.	It also lays down that	suchdecision  is  final between the parties to the	suit.	Sub-section (2) confers upon the court of appeal, reference,  orrevision, jurisdiction to deal with the question of adequacyof  court fee paid on the plaint whenever the suit in  whichsuch plaint has been filed comes before it and if the  courtis satisfied that proper court fees have not been paid	thenit  can	 pass an order requiring the party to  pay  so	muchadditional  fee as would have been payable if  the  questionhad been rightly decided1031in  the first instance.	 Since the decision of	KrishnaswamyNaidu  J. cannot attract the finality mentioned in, s. 5  ofthe  Act, it was open to the Division Bench to consider	 thecorrectness of the view taken by the learned Chamber  Judge;and  as	 they were satisfied that the plaint  did  not	fallunder  Art. 17-B of Schedule II, they were entitled to	passappropriate orders under s. 12(1) and (2).The  appellant,	 however, contends that the  learned  judgeswere  in  error in directing him to pay court  fees  on	 thebasis  of the value of Rs. 15,00,000 both on his plaint	 andon  his	 memorandum of appeal because he  argues  that	thisdecision  is  inconsistent with the earlier order  that	 theproper court fees to be paid on the memorandum of appeal hadto  be determined under s. 7(iv)(b) of the Act.	 This  orderhas been passed by the Division Bench under s. 5 of the	 Actand  it is final between the parties.  This order gives	 theappellant  leave  to  value  his claim	for  the  relief  ofpartition  and be exercised his option by valuing it at	 Rs.50,000.	 The valuation thus made by the appellant in respectof  the value of his relief of partition for the payment  ofcourt fees should and must be taken to be the valuation evenfor the purposes of jurisdiction and it is on this valuationalone  that the appellant can be justly called upon  to	 paycourt  fees  both  on the plaint and on	 the  memorandum  ofappeal.	 The learned judges were, therefore, in error in notallowing the appellant leave to make amendment in the plaintso as to bring the plaint in conformity with the  provisionsof  s.	7,  sub-s. (iv) of the Act.  That in  brief  is	 theappellant's case.On  the	 other hand, on behalf	of  the	 IntervenerAdvocate-General of Madras as well as on behalf of the respondent, itwas  sought to be urged before us that both the	 plaint	 andthe memorandum of appeal ought to be valued for the purposesof  payment of court fees under s. 7(v) of the Act.   It  isconceded that the question of court fees must be  consideredin  the light of the allegations made in the plaint and	 itsdecision cannot be influenced either by the pleas in the1311032written	 statement or by the final decision of the  suit  onthe  merits.   The  argument, however, is that	if  all	 thematerial  allegations  contained in the	 plaint	 are  fairlyconstrued  and	taken as a whole it would  appear  that	 theplaintiff  has	been  ousted  from  the	 enjoyment  of	 theproperties in suit and his claim for partition in  substanceis  a claim for possession of ..the suit properties  and  assuch falls within the provisions of a. 7, sub-s. (v) of	 theAct.   The  question  about proper court  fees	leviable  onplaints in which Hindu plaintiffs make claims for  partitionunder  varying	circumstances  has  given  rise	 to  severalconflicting decisions in the High Courts of India.  We	are,however, not called upon to consider the point as to whethers.  7(v)  would	 apply to the present suit  or	whether	 thepresent suit would fall under s. 7(iv)(b).  In our  opinion,the decision of the Division Bench of the Madras High  Courtthat  the  memorandum  of appeal should	 be  taxed  for	 thepurposes of court fee under s.	   7(iv)(b)  of the  Act  isfinal  under the provisions of s.5 of the Act and it  cannotbe reopened at this stage. It may be that when the  DivisionBench of the Madras High Court considered this matter  underreference made by the Master under s. 5, the respondent	 wasnot  heard.  Normally the dispute between the  litigant	 andthe Registry in respect of court fees arises at the  initialstage  of the presentation of the plaint or the	 appeal	 andthe defendant or the respondent is usually not interested insuch a dispute unless the question of payment of court	feesinvolves  also	the question of jurisdiction  of  the  courteither to try the suit or to entertain the appeal.  There isno  doubt that the question about the adequacy of the  courtfees  leviable on the appellant's memorandum of	 appeal	 wasproperly referred by the Master to the learned Chief Justiceof  the	 Madras	 High  Court and has  been  decided  by	 theDivision  Bench of the said High Court in pursuance  of	 therequisite  order made by the Chief Justice in  that  behalf.In  such a case, the decision reached by the Division  Benchmust be held to be final under s. 5 of the Act.	 That is whywe  have  not  allowed	the  merits  of	 this  order  to  bequestioned in the present1033appeal.	  We  must,  therefore, deal  with  the	 appellant'scontention  on	the  basis  that  the  court  fees  on	 hismemorandum  of appeal must be levied under s. 7(iv)  (b)  ofthe Act.The question which still remains to be considered is whetherthe Division Bench was justified in directing the  appellantto  pay court fees both on the plaint and on the  memorandumof appeal on the basis of the( valuation for Rs.  15,00,000.In  our	 opinion, the appellant is justified  in  contendingthat  this  order is erroneous in law.	 Section  7,  sub-s.(iv)(b)	 deals with suits to enforce the right to  share  inany property on the ground that it is joint family  propertyand  the amount of fees payable on plaints in such suits  is"according  to	the  amount at which the  relief  sought  isvalued	in  the plaint or memorandum of appeal."  Section  7further	 provides that in all suits falling under  S.  7(iv)the  plaintiff shall state the amount at which the value  ofthe  relief  is	 sought.  If the scheme laid  down  for	 thecomputation of fees payable in suits covered by the  severalsub-sections of s. 7 is considered, it would be clear  that,in  respect of suits falling under sub-s. (iv), a  departurehas been made and liberty has been given to the plaintiff tovalue  his  claim  for	the purposes  of  court	 fees.	 Thetheoretical  basis of this provision appears to be  that  incases  in which the plaintiff is given the option  to  valuehis  claim, it is really difficult to value the	 claim	withany precision or definiteness.	Take for instance the  claimfor partition where the plaintiff seeks to enforce his rightto  share  in any property on the ground that  it  is  jointfamily	property.   The	 basis	of the	claim  is  that	 theproperty  in  respect of which a share is claimed  is  jointfamily	property.  In other words, it is property  in  whichthe  plaintiff has an undivided share.	What  the  plaintiffpurports to do by making a claim for partition is to ask thecourt  to give him certain specified  properties  separatelyand  absolutely on his own account for his share in lieu  ofhis undivided share in the whole property.  Now it would  beclear  that  the  conversion  of  the  plaintiff's   allegedundivided  share  in  the joint	 family	 property  into	 hisseparate1034share  cannot be easily valued in terms of rupees  with	 anyprecision or definiteness.  That is why legislature has leftit to the option of the plaintiff to value his claim for thepayment	 of  court  fees.  It really  means  that  in  suitsfalling	 under	s.  7  (iv)(b)	the  amount  stated  by	 theplaintiff  as  the  value of his  claim	 for  partition	 hasordinarily  to	be accepted by the court  in  computing	 thecourt  fees payable in respect of the said relief.   In	 thecircumstances  of  this case it is unnecessary	to  considerwhether, under the provisions of this section, the plaintiffhas  been  given an absolute right or option  to  place	 anyvaluation whatever on his relief.What  would be the value for the purpose of jurisdiction  insuch  suits  is	 another question  which  often	 arises	 fordecision.   This question has to be decided by reading s.  7(iv) of the Act along with s. 8 of the Suits Valuation	Act.This latter section provides that, where in any suits  otherthan  those referred to in Court Fees Act s. 7, para.  5,  6and  9	and  para. 10 cl. (d), court  fees  are	 payable  advalorem	 under	the  Act, the  value  determinable  for	 thecomputation of court fees and the value for the purposes  ofjurisdiction  shall be the same.  In other words, so far  assuits  falling	under  s.  7, sub-s. (iv)  of  the  Act	 areconcerned, s. 8 of the Suits Valuation Act provides that thevalue as determinable for the computation of court fees	 andthe  value  for the purposes of jurisdiction  shall  be	 thesame.	There  can be little doubt that the  effect  of	 theprovisions  of s. 8 is to make the value for the purpose  ofjurisdiction  dependent upon the value as  determinable	 forcomputation  of court fees and that is natural enough.	 Thecomputation  of court fees in suits falling under s. 7	(iv)of  the	 Act depends upon the valuation that  the  plaintiffmakes in respect of his claim.	Once the plaintiff exerciseshis  option  and values his claim for the purpose  of  courtfees, that determines the value for jurisdiction.  The valuefor court fees and the value for jurisdiction must no  doubtbe  the	 same in such cases; but it is the value  for  courtfees stated by the plaintiff that is of primary	 importance.It is from this value that the value for jurisdication	mustbe determined.	The result is that it is the amount at1035which  the  plaintiff has valued the relief sought  for	 thepurposes  of  court  fees  that	 determines  the  value	 forjurisdiction  in the suit and not vice versa.	Incidentallywe  may	 point out that according to the  appellant  it	 wasreally	not  necessary in the present case  to	mention	 Rs.15,00,000 as the valuation for the purposes of	jurisdictionsince  on plaints filed on the Original Side of	 the  MadrasHigh  Court  prior  to 1953 there was no need  to  make	 anyjurisdictional valuation.The  plaintiffs	 failure  to state the amount  at  which  hevalues	the relief sought is often due to the fact  that  insuits  for  partition the plaintiff attempts to	 obtain	 thebenefit of Art. 17-B of Schedule II in the matter of paymentof  court fees.	 Where the plaintiff seeks to pay the  fixedcourt  fee  as	required by the said  article,	he  and	 hisadvisers are apt to take the view that it is unnecessary  tostate  the amount for which relief is sought to	 be  claimedfor  the  purposes  of	court fees  and	 the  valuation	 forjurisdiction purposes alone is, therefore, mentioned.  Oftenenough,	 it  turns  out that the plaint	 does  not  strictlyattract the provisions of Art. 17-B of Schedule II and	thatthe  court  fee has to be paid either under s.	7(iv)(b)  orunder  s.  7(v)	 of  the Act.  If the  court  comes  to	 theconclusion  that  the  case falls under s.  7(iv)(b)  or  s.7(iv)(c) ordinarily liberty should be given to the plaintiffto  amend his plaint and set out specifically the amount  atwhich  he seeks to value his claim for the payment of  courtfees.	It would not be reasonable or proper in such a	caseto hold the plaintiff bound by the valuation made by him forthe  purposes  of jurisdiction and to infer  that  the	saidvaluation  should  be also taken as the	 valuation  for	 thepayment of court fees.	In this connection we may point	 outthat  this is the view taken by the Full Bench	decision  ofthe Lahore High Court in Karam Ilahi v. Muhammad Bashir (1).As we have already indicated s. 8 of the Suits Valuation Actpostulates  that the plaintiff should first value his  claimfor  the  purpose  of  court fee and  it  provides  for	 thedetermination of the value for jurisdiction on the basis  ofsuch claim.  In our opinion, therefore, the learned judges(1)  A.I.R. (1949) Lah. 116.1036of  the Madras High Court were in error in holding that	 thevaluation  for jurisdiction showed in the plaint  should  betaken  to be the valuation for the payment of court fees  onthe plaint as well as the memorandum of appeal.	 In view  oftheir  prior  decision that the present case fell  under  s.7(iv)(b),  they should have allowed the appellant  to  amendhis valuation for the payment of court fees not only on	 thememorandum of appeal but also on the plaint.We  must  accordingly set aside the order under	 appeal	 anddirect	that  the plaintiff should be allowed to  state	 theamount of Rs. 50,000 at which he values the relief sought byhim  for  the  purpose	of s. 7(iv)(b)	of  the	 Act.	ShriKrishnaswamy  Ayyangar has orally requested us to  give	 himliberty to make the appropriate amendment in his plaint	 andwe have grantedhis request.In the result the appeal would be allowed and the  appellantdirected  to pay additional court fees on his plaint on	 thebasis of the valuation of Rs. 50,000 within two months	fromtoday.	Since the appellant has already paid adequate  courtfees  on his memorandum of appeal, no further order need  bepassed in that behalf.	There will be no order as to costs.		      Appeal allowed.1037