PETITIONER:ALL  INDIA  STATION  MASTERS'&	ASSISTANT  STATION  MASTER'S	Vs.RESPONDENT:GENERAL MANAGER, CENTRAL RAILWAYSAND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:20/11/1959BENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASBENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASSINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR  384		  1960 SCR  (2) 311 CITATOR INFO : D	    1963 SC 913	 (37,38) F	    1967 SC 839	 (12) R	    1968 SC  81	 (6) R	    1969 SC 212	 (8) D	    1976 SC 490	 (30,57,58,108) R	    1978 SC 327	 (6) R	    1981 SC1829	 (29) R	    1984 SC1683	 (11) D	    1985 SC1495	 (133)ACT:State  Employment-Equality  of	opportunity  in	 matters  ofpromotion-Concept and meaning of-Constitution of India, Art.16(1).HEADNOTE:The   Roadside	Station	 Masters  of  the  Central   Railwaychallenged the constitutionality of promotion for guards  tohigher	grade  station	masters'  posts.   The	 petitionerscontended  that	 the  channel of promotions  amounted  to  adenial	of  equal opportunity as  between  Roadside  StationMasters	 and  Guards  in the matter of	promotion  and	thuscontravened   the   provisions	 of  Art.   16(1)   of	 theConstitution, as taking advantage of this channel of  promo-tions, guards become station masters at a very much  youngerage than Roadside Station Masters and thus block the chancesof  higher promotion to Roadside Station Masters  who  reachthe scale when they are much older.The  appellant contended that Roadside Station	Masters	 andGuards really formed one and the same class of employees.Held,  that the Roadside Station Masters belong to a  whollydistinct and separate class from Guards and so there can  beno  question  of  equality  of	opportunity  in	 matter	  ofpromotion  as  between	the  Roadside  Station	Masters	 andGuards.The question of denial of equal opportunity requires seriousconsideration only as between the members of the same class.The  concept of equal opportunity in matters of	 employment,does  not  apply  to variations	 in  provisions	 as  betweenmembers	 of different classes of employees under the  State.Equality  of  opportunity in matters of	 employment  can  bepredicated only312between persons who are either seeking the same	 employment,or   have  obtained  the  same	employment.    Equality	  ofopportunity  in matters of promotion, must mean equality  asbetween	 members  of  the same class  of  employee  and	 notequality  between members of separate, independent  classes.The fact that the qualifications  necessary for	 recruitmentof one post and another are approximately or even wholly thesame can in no way affect the question	whether	 they	formone and the same class, or form different classes.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 126 of 1958.Petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India,	 forenforcement of Fundamental Rights.N. C. Chatterjee and B. V. S. Mani, for the petitioners.B. Sen and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1959.  November 20.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyDAS  GUPTA J.-The petitioners who describe them-  selves  asRoad-side  Station Masters challenge in this petition  underArt.  32  of the Constitution the constitutionality  of	 thechannel	 of  promotion for Guards to  higher  grade  StationMasters'  posts	 as  notified in the issue  of	the  CentralRailway	 'Weekly  Gazette  No. 3 dated	November  23,  1951.Under  this Notification Guards have two lines of  promotionopen  to them. One is that by promotion, C grade Guards	 maybecome	B  grade  Guards on Rs. 100-185	 and  thereafter  byfurther promotion A grade Guaids on Rs. 150-225. The  secondline  of  promotion open to them is that by  an	 examinationdescribed  curiously enough as Slip 45 examination  C  gradeGuards	are  eligible  for promotion  to  posts	 of  StationMasters	 on  RS.  150-225 scale and thereafter	to  all	 thefurther	 promotions  that are open to the  Station  Masters,viz.,  higher ,cales of Rs. 200 to Rs. 300, Rs. 260  to	 Rs.350,  Rs. 300 to Rs. 400 and finally Rs. 360 to Rs.  500;  Bgrade Guards and A grade Guards are also on passing Slip  45examination  eligible  for  promotion to  posts	 of  StationMasters	 on Rs. 200-300 pay scale and thereafter to  furtherpromotions  to	the higher scales in  the  Station  Masters'line.  The Road side Station Masters on pay scale of Rs.  80to Rs. 170313(the  scale  was  formerly Rs. 64-170)	can  also  reach  bypromotion  the	grade of Rs. 150-225 but  only	after  goingthrough	 an  intermediate stage of Rs.	100-185.   SimilarlyStation	 Masters  on Rs. 100-185 scale may  also  reach	 thestage  of  Rs. 200-300 but only after  passing	through	 theintermediate stage of Rs. 150-225.  Obviously the provisionsenabling  Guards to become Station Masters on the pay  scaleof  Rs.	 150-225 places the Station Masters  of	 Rs.  80-170scale at a disadvantage as against Guards on that pay  scaleand  also puts the Road-side Station Masters on the  pay  ofRs. 100-185 pay scale at a disadvantage as against Guards onthat scale of pay.The petitioners contend that the channel of promotion in  sofar  as it enables Guards to be promoted as Station  Mastersin  addition to the other line of promotion open to them  asGuards	amounts to a denial of equal opportunity as  betweenRoad-side  Station  Masters  and Guards	 in  the  matter  ofpromotion and thus contravenes the provisions of Art.  16(1)of the Constitution.It was further alleged in the petition that taking advantageof this channel of promotion, Guards become Station  Masterson  Rs.	 150-225 at a very much younger age  than  Road-sideStation	 Masters  and  thus  block  the	 chances  of  higherpromotion  to  Road-side Station Masters who reach  the	 Rs.150-225 scale when they are much older.	 As instances of howthe  impugned  provisions in the channel  of  promotion	 areharmful	 to the Road-side Station Masters,  the	 petitionersstate: that while the petitioner No. 2 even after completing32 years of service has remained in the grade of Rs. 100-185as Station Master, Guards of equal status and standing	havereached	 gazetted  rank within the same period	of  service;that  whereas the petitioner No, 3 has come by promotion  tothe  grade  of	Rs.  150225 after putting  in  21  years  ofservice,  Guards of his standing have risen to the grade  ofRs.  360-500 by virtue of the impugned channel of  promotionand  several of his juniors who entered the Railway  servicelong after him as Guards have superseded him and are workingin the grade of Rs. 360-500; that while the314petitioner  No. 4 having entered into service  as  TelegraphCandidate    and   having   passed   all    the	   requisiteexaminations  prescribed  for the higher  grade	 of  StationMaster within a period of 2 1/2 years after putting in 6 1/2years of service is still in the grade of Rs. 80-170, Guardsof his length of service and departmental qualification	 areentitled  for promotion as an Assistant		     StationMaster	in  the grade of Rs. 150-225 within about  the	samelength of service.The  respondents-the  General  Manager,	 Central   Railways,Bombay, V.T., the Chairman Railway Board, New Delhi and	 theUnion of India,-who contest the application contend that thechannel of promotion providing these opportunities to Guardsdoes not in any way contravene the provisions of Art.  16(1)of the Constitution.  They also deny the correctness of	 theallegation  that as a result of these  opportunities  Guardsbecome Station Masters on Rs. 150-225 pay scale at a Youngerage than Road-side Station Masters.  On the material  beforeus  it	is  not possible to come to  a	firm  conclusion  asregards	 the  relative	age at	which  Guards  or  Road-sideStation		  Masters ordinarily reach the pay scale  ofRs.  150-225.	Assuming,  however, the position  to  be  asstated	in the petition, that may only evoke  some  sympathyfor  the Road-side Station Masters, but does not in any	 wayaffect	the decision of the question whether Art.  16(1)  ofthe   Constitution  is	contravened  by	 this	channel	  ofpromotion.Art. 16(1) of the Constitution is in these words:-There  shall be equality of opportunity for all citizens  inmatters relating to employment or appointment to any  officeunder the State'."The  impugned provisions of the channel of promotion are  inrespect	 of promotion of persons already employed under	 theState  and not in respect of the first employment under	 theState.	       If the "equality of opportunity "  guaranteedto all citizens by Art. 16(1) does not extend to matters  ofpromotion  the petitioners' contention that  the  provisionsare  void  must	 fail  at once.	  If,  however,	 matters  ofpromotion are			    315also " matters relating to employment" within the meaning ofArt. 16(1) of the Constitution, the next question we have toconsider is whether the impugned provisions amount to denialof  equality  of  opportunity within  the  meaning  of	thatArticle.We  propose  to consider the second question first,  on	 theassumption that matters of promotion are Cc matters relatingto  employment ". So multifarious are the activities of	 theState  that  employment	 of men for  the  purpose  of  theseactivities  has	 by  the  very nature of  things  to  be  indifferent   departments	 of  the  State	 and   inside	eachdepartment, in many different classes.	For each such  classthere  are separate rules fixing the number of personnel  ofeach  class,  posts to which the men in that class  will  beappointed,  questions of seniority, pay of different  posts,the  manner  in which promotion will be, effected  from	 thelower  grades of pay to the higher grades, e.g., whether  onthe result of periodical examination or 'by seniority, or byselection or on some other basis-and other cognate  matters.Each  such  class  can	be reasonably  considered  to  be  aseparate and in many matters independent entity with its ownrules of recruitment, pay and prospects and other conditionsof service which may vary considerably between one class andanother.  A member joins a particular class on	recruitment;he  leaves  the class on retirement or death  or  dismissal,discharge,  resignation	 or other modes	 of  termination  ofservice, or by joining another class of employees whether bypromotion  thereto or direct recruitment thereto on  passingsome examination or by selection in some other mode.It  is clear that as between the members of the	 same  classthe  question whether conditions of service are the same  ornot may well arise.  If they are not, the question of denialof  equal opportunity will require serious consideration  insuch  cases.   Does  the concept  of  equal  opportunity  inmatters	 of  employment	 apply, however,  to  variations  inprovisions  as	between	 members  of  different	 classes  ofemployees under the State?  In our opinion, the answer	mustbe in the316negative.   The	 concept of equality can have  no  existenceexcept	  with	  reference    to    matters	which	 arecommon	as  between individuals, between  whom	equality  ispredicated.	Equality   of	opportunity    in    mattersof   employment	  can	be  predicated	 only	as   betweenpersons, who are either seeking the same employment, or haveobtained    the	   same	  employment.	  It	will,	 forexample,  plainly  make	 no sense to say  that	because	 foremployment  as professors of colleges, a  higher  Universitydegree	is  required  than for	employment  as	teachers  ofschools, equality of opportunity is being denied.  Similarlyit  is	meaningless  to say that  unless  persons  who	haveobtained  employment  as  school  teachers,  have  the	samechances of promotion as persons who have obtained employmentas teachers in colleges, equality of opportunity is  denied.There is, in our opinion, no escape from the conclusion thatequality  of opportunity in matters of promotion, must	meanequality as between members of the same class of  employees,and  not equality between members of  separate,	 independentclasses.The  Petitioners'  Counsel did not seriously  challenge	 thecorrectness  of	 the  above  proposition.   They   contendedhowever	 that  Road-side Station Masters and  Guards  reallyform  one and the same class of employees.  In our  opinion,there  is  no substance in this contention.  It	 has  to  benoticed	 first	that  Appendix	11  of	the  Indian  RailwayEstablishment  Code (Vol. 1) which prescribe rules  for	 therecruitment  and  training of subordinate  staff  of  IndianRailways  classify  the subordinate staff  governed  by	 therules  into  7 branches: (1) Transportation  (Traffic);	 (2)Commercial;   (3)   Transportation   (Power);	(4)    CivilEngineering ; (5) Store department Staff; (6) Office clerksand  (7) Medical.  Each branch again has been  divided	intogroups.	   The	first  branch,	i.e.,	the   Transportation(Traffic) is shown as having 3 groups: (i) Station  Masters,(ii)  Guards,  (iii)  Outdoor Clerical Staff.  Rule  2,	 thedefinition  section defines a " group " to mean a series  ofclasses	 which form a normal channel of promotion.   Rule  8shows the classes of posts			    317included  in  the  Station Masters'  group  and	 the  normalchannels  of  their promotion which are as follows:	       SignallerAssist. Head Signallers		   Assist.Station Masters				   (lower grade)Head Signallers			   Station Masters				   (lower grade)Telegraph Inspectors		   Assist.   controllers				   Assist.  Yard Foreman				   Station Masters				   Controllers				   Yard Foremen	       Transportation InspectorsRule  9	 lays  down the	 qualifications	 necessary  for	 therecruitment  to	 this  "group".	  Rule	10  says  that	 therecruitment  will be initially made as students and  furtherprovides that the recruits may be (a) persons to be  trainedin telegraphy in railway telegraph training schools and	 (b)persons	 who  have  completed a training  in  telegraphy  inrecognized  private telegraph training schools.	 Note  2  ofthis Rule provides that recruits in either, category will onthe  satisfactory completion of their training, be  eligiblefor  appointment as signallers and will remain on  probationfor  one  year	after  such  appointment.  -Provisions	 fortraining appear in Rule 11.  Rule 12 provides for  Refresherand  Promotion	Courses.  Rules 13 to 17 are in	 respect  ofGuards.	  Rule 13 states the classes included in this  groupand the normal channels of their promotion thus:-Probationary GuardsGoods or passengers guardsAssistant Station Masters (higher grades)Assistant controllersAssist.	 Yard ForemenStation MastersControllersYard ForemenTransportation InspectorsRule   14  lays	 down  the  qualifications   necessary	 forrecruitment in this line.  Rule 15 provides that the41318recruitment  will normally be to the lower grade of  Guards.Rule  16  provides  that  during  the  one  year  period  ofprobation recruits will undergo training for a period to  befixed  by  the	administration.	 Rule 17  provides  for	 theperiodical refresher courses at stated	     intervals	 andpromotion courses as necessary may be prescribed.In  deciding the question whether Road-side Station  Mastersand Guards belong to one and the same class  of employees ornot,  we  must not be misled by the words " groups  "  or  "classes	 of posts " used in the above rules... The  crux  ofthe  question is the nature of the  differentiation  betweenRoad-side   Station  Masters  and  Guards  in	recruitment,prospects  and	promotion.  We find that  Road-side  StationMasters	  and  Guards  are  recruited  separately,   trainedseparately  and	 the  several classes  of  posts  which	 areordinarily open to them are also distinct and separate.	 Theonly  point of contact between them is provided by the	rulethat  Guards may become Station Masters by passing the	Slip45  examination.   If after becoming Station  Masters  theseGuards	could  continue also as Guards there might  be	somescope  for suggesting that the two classes  have  coalesced.It  is	not disputed however that Guards  once	they  becomeStation	 Masters cease to be Guards and continue as  StationMasters.   The	fact that the qualifications  necessary	 forrecruitment  as Guards or Station Masters are  approximatelyor  even wholly the same can in no way affect  the  questionwhether they form one and the same class, or form  differentclasses.   As  on the admitted facts  the  Roadside  StationMasters	 and  Guards  are,  as	already	 stated,   recruitedseparately and trained separately and have separate  avenuesof promotion, the conclusion is irresistible that they	formtwo  distinct and separate classes as between whom there  isno   scope  for	 predicating  equality	or   inequality	  ofopportunity in matters of promotion.In view of this conclusion it is unnecessary for the purposeof the present case to decide the other question:    whethermatters	 of  promotion are included in the words  "  mattersrelating to employment	in			    319Article	 16(1) of the Constitution.  For even assuming	thatthey  are  so  included, the  present  application  must  berejected on the simple ground that the petitioners belong toa  wholly  distinct. and separate class from Guards  and  sothere  can  be	no question of equality	 of  opportunity  inmatters of promotion as between the petitioners and Guards.The  learned Counsel for the petitioners stated	 before	  usthat this channel of promotion for Guards is peculiar to theCentral	 Railways, and is not now to be found in  the  otherZones  of  Indian Railways.  If that be	 the  position,	 thematter may well deserve the attention of the Government; butthis  has  nothing  to do with the merits  of  the  petitionbefore us.For the reasons mentioned above, we dismiss the application,but in view of all the circumstances, we order that  partieswill bear their own costs.Petition dismissed.