PETITIONER:NARAYAN BHASKAR KHARE	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA(and connected petition)DATE OF JUDGMENT:03/05/1957BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.IMAM, SYED JAFFERDAS, S.K.KAPUR, J.L.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  694		  1957 SCR 1081ACT:President, Election of-Doubts and Disputes relating to	suchelection-jurisdiction  and Power of Supreme Court, when	 canbe  exercised-'Election' Meaning of-Constitution  of  India,Arts. 71, 62-The Presidential and Vice-Presidential ElectionAct, 1952 (XXXI Of 1952), s. 14.HEADNOTE:The petitioners entertained grave doubts as to the proprietyof  holding  the Presidential election	before	the  generalelections had been completed throughout the entire territoryof India and, by applications filed under Art. 71(1) of	 theConstitution as citizens of India, invoked the	jurisdictionand  power of the Supreme Court thereunder to  inquire	intosuch doubts and sought for an order restraining the ElectionCommission  from  taking  the poll in  connection  with	 theelection  of the President, fixed for May 6, 1957, till	 thegeneral elections in the Union territory of Himachal Pradeshand in two Lok Sabha Constituencies of the State of  Punjab,which were still to be held, had been completed.  The expiryof the term of office of the then President which caused thePresidential election was to come about on the mid-night  ofMay 12, 1957.  One of the petitioners alleged that he was  acandidate  for	the  Presidential  election  and  the	timeintervening between the date when he received his nominationpaper and the date fixed for the filing of it was too  shortto  enable  him to file it within time and the case  of	 theother  was that he was a prospective candidate for  electionto  the	 Lok Sabha from one of	the  Punjab  Constituencies,where  election was yet to be held, and would  be  preventedfrom  exercising his right to vote for the election  of	 thePresident.Held, that the present petitions were premature and must  bedismissed.^The jurisdiction and power conferred on the Supreme Court byArt.  71(1) of the Constitution to inquire into	 and  decidedoubts	and disputes arising out of and in  connection	withthe election of the President can be exercised only after  aparticular  candidate  has been declared elected and  on  anelection petition filed under S. 14 of the Presidential	 andVice-Presidential Election Act of 1952.The  word 'election' in Art. 71 of the Constitution is	usedin the wider sense to denote the entire process of  electionculminating1391082in  a  candidate  being	 declared  elected  and	 doubts	 anddisputes arising out of and in connection with such electionmust  include  all  doubts  and	 disputes  relating  to	 anyparticular stage of it.N.   P.	  Ponnuswamy   v.   Returning	Officer,    NamakkalConstituency,  (1952) S.C.R. 218, referred to.It   is	 a well recognised principle of the law of  electionthat  an  election  cannot  be held  up	 to  facilitate	 theventilation  of individual grievances in derogation  of	 theinterest  of  the  people  in general and  Art.	 62  Of	 theConstitution, which requires that the election of  Presidentmust  be completed within the time fixed by it and has	beenconceived in such interest, is mandatory in character,JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petitions Nos. 63 and 64 of 1957.Petitions  under Article 71(1) of the Constitution of  Indiafor clarification of doubts in connection with the  electionof the President.R.   V. S. Mani and I. R. V. Sastri, for the  petitioner  inPetition No. 63 of 1957.R.   Patnaik, for the petitioner in Petition No. 64 of 1957.M.   C.	 Setalvad Attorney-General for India, G.  N.  Joshi,Porus  A.  Mehta  and  R. H.  Dhebar,  for  the	 respondents(Caveators) in both the petitions.1957.  May 3. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byDAS C. J.-The petitioners in the above petitions have  movedthis Court to exercise the jurisdiction and power vested  init by and under Art. 71(1) of the Constitution of India	 andto  inquire  into and decide what has been  described  as  a"grave	doubt"	in  connection	with  the  election  of	 thePresident of India and to direct the Election Commission notto  proceed  with the polling in connection  with  the	saidelection  which has been fixed for May 6, 1957, but to	holdthe same after duly completing all the elections to the	 LokSabha  and the Legislatures in all the States of the  IndianUnion  including  the  Union  territory.   The	first	mainpetition was presented on April 26, 1957, and the second  onApril  29, 1957.  Along with each of the said petitions	 hasbeen filed a Civil Miscellaneous Petition asking for a	stayof the polling for the Presidential election fixed1083for  May 6, 1957.  In the first main petition the  ReturningOfficer	 has  not  been	 made a party,	but  in	 the  secondpetition he has been impleaded as a respondent.	 The learnedAttorney-General  has  appeared on behalf  of  the  ElectionCommission  and has waived the service of notice.   We	can,therefore, dispose of all the petitions before us.There  is  no  dispute as to the material  facts  which	 mayshortly be stated as follows:After  the  general elections in all the  States  and  Unionterritories  of	 India,	 except in the	Union  territory  ofHimachal Pradesh, which is to return four members to the LokSabha and in two constituencies in the State of Punjab,	 theold Lok Sabha was dissolved on April 4, 1957 and the New LokSabha  was constituted on April 5, 1957, under s. 73 of	 theRepresentation	of  the	 People Act  (XLIII  of	 1951).	  Asrequired  by s. 4 of the Presidential and  Vice-PresidentialElection  Act, 1952 (XXXI of 1952), the Election  Commissionissued	a  notification in the official	 Gazette  appointingApril  16, 1957, as the last date for  making  nominations,-April  17,  1957,  as  the date	 for  the  scrutiny  of	 thenominations,  April  20,  1957, as the	last  date  for	 thewithdrawal of candidatures, May 6, 1957, as the polling dateand May 10, 1957, as the date for the counting of the  votesand  the declaration of the result.  The term of  office  ofthe  present President is due to expire on the mid-night  ofMay 12, 1957.  The reason for fixing the above time scheduleobviously  was	that  the Presidential	election  should  becompleted before the term of office of the present Presidentexpired.After  the notification constituting the new Lok  Sabha	 waspublished  in the Press on April 7, 1957, the petitioner  inthe  first petition applied to the Election  Commission	 forthe  supply  of the nomination papers, which  he  eventuallyreceived at Nagpur in the afternoon of April 10, 1957.	Thisleft a period of five days for the filing of the  nominationpaper  before  the  Returning Officer  at  New	Delhi.	 Thepetitioner  submits that the time was too short and  he	 wasprevented  from filing his nomination paper due to  want  oftime.  He1084has  filed  the	 petition as a citizen of India	 and  as  an"intending candidate" for the Presidential election.The  petitioner	 in the second petition is a member  of	 theHindu  Mahasabha and is contenting the election to  the	 LokSabha as an independent candidate from Kangra  Parliamentaryconstituency   in  the	State  of  Punjab.   He	 filed	 hisnomination  paper  on January 28, 1957,	 as  originally	 thepolling	 was scheduled to commence in that  constituency  onFebruary  24,  1957.  The polling, however, has	 since	beenpostponed  and	fixed for June 2, 1957.	 He  has  filed	 thepetition  as a citizen of India and as a prospective  memberof Lok Sabha and contends that if the Presidential  electionis held on May 6, 1957, he will be deprived of his right  tovote for the election of the President of the Union.  He hasalso complained of discrimination offending against Art.  14of the Constitution.Under Art. 56 of the Constitution the President holds officefor  a term of five years from the date on which  he  entersupon  his office.  The present incumbent of the high  officeentered	 upon  his office on May 12, 1952, and,	 as  alreadystated,	 his term is due to expire on the mid-night  of	 May12,  1957.   Article 62(1) peremptorily	 requires  that	 theelection to fill the vacancy caused by the expiration of theterm  of office of the President shall be  completed  beforethe expiration of the term.  It is necessary to bear in mindthis  clear  mandatory provision of the	 Constitution.	 Forascertaining  how such election of President is to be  held,we have to go back to Art. 54, which runs thus:"  54.	The President shall be elected by the members of  anelectoral college consisting of-(a)  the elected members of both Houses of Parliament ; and(b)  the  elected members of the Legislative  Assemblies  ofthe States."On  one	 side it is said that the electoral  college  is  toconsist of those members falling under clauses (a) and	(b),who  are  elected at the crucial date, that is to  say,	 thedate  when  the election is to take place.  Suppose,  it  issaid, that the term of the President's office expires duringthe currency of the life of Parliament; as it1085may well do in cases contemplated by Art. 62(2) and  supposethere  are vacancies in Parliament or in the Legislature  ofone  or	 more States, surely the election of  the  Presidentrequired  by Art. 62(1) to be held before the expiry of	 theterm  of the outgoing President cannot be held up until	 thevacancies are filled up.' On the other hand it is  contendedthat  the  electoral college must be constituted  after	 theelections in all States and Union territories are  completedand should consist of all the elected members falling withinboth  the categories.  Inasmuch as elections have not  takenplace  at all in Himachal Pradesh and in two  constituenciesof  the	 State of Punjab, the electoral	 college  cannot  beconstituted until after those members are also elected.	  Itis pointed out that though on the present occasion only fourmembers	 of  Himachal Pradesh and only two  members  in	 theState of Punjab have not been elected, nevertheless, if	 theobjection of the petitioners is not now heeded any party  inpower  may  in future arrange for the election	of  its	 ownnominee as President by postponing the elections in  severalStates, where it may not expect to get a majority of  seats.It  is said that on March 28, 1957 some members of the	thenLok  Sabha  had	 raised	 a question as	to  the	 danger	 andimpropriety of holding the election of the President  beforethe completion of the elections throughout the territory  ofIndia.	Both the petitioners share the same view and contendthat  a	 " grave doubt " has arisen in connection  with	 theelection of the President and that such a doubt must,  underArt.  71, be inquired into and decided by this	Court.	 Theextreme contention put forward on behalf of the	 petitionersis that it does not matter whether the doubt is well foundedor not or whether it is good, bad or indifferent; this Courtis  bound to inquire into and decide the same as soon  as  adoubt  arises and a citizen brings it before this Court	 forresolution  thereof. For the purpose of this case it is	 notnecessary for us to express any opinion on the merits of therespective  contentions	 for  these petitions  may  well  bedisposed of on a narrower preliminary ground.1086Article 71 (1) Undoubtedly confers jurisdiction and power onthis  Court  to	 inquire into and decide "  all	 doubts	 anddisputes  arising out of or in connection with the  electionof President or Vice-President " and this Court will have toinquire	 into  and  decide the same.  But  the	question  iswhether there is anything in the Constitution indicating thetime  at  which	 and the manner in  which  such	 doubts	 anddisputes  have to be inquired into and decided.	 Under	Art.324 the superintendence, direction and control of the prepa-ration	of the electoral rolls for, and the conduct of,	 allelection,%  to	Parliament and to the Legislature  of  everyState and of elections to the office of President and  Vice-President  held	 under	this  Constitution,  including	 theappointment of election tribunals for the decision of doubtsand disputes arising out of or in connection with  electionsto Parliament and the Legislatures of States shall be vestedin  the	 Election  Commission.	 It  will  be  noticed	thatidentical  words  are used, namely, "  doubts  and  disputesarising	 out of or in connection with elections " which	 arealso  to be found in Art. 71 (1).  By Art.  327,  Parliamentwas authorised to make provision with respect to all matters"  relating  to	 or  in	 connection  with  elections  "	  toParliament  or to the Legislatures of the States.  Art.	 329provides,   amongst  other  things,   that   notwithstandinganything in this Constitution no election to either House ofParliament  or either House of Legislature of a State  shallbe  called  in	question  except  by  an  election  Petitionpresented  to  such authority and in such manner as  may  beprovided  for  by  or  under any  law  made  by	 the  properlegislature.   In exercise of powers thus conferred  on	 it,Parliament  enacted  the Representation of the	People	Act,1951, providing how elections are to be held and how and  onwhat  grounds such elections may be called in question.	  Italso set up a special forum called Election Tribunal for thedecision  of  "	 doubts and disputes arising  out  of  or inconnection  with  such	elections." In	N.P.  Ponnuswami  v.Returning  Officer, Namakkal Constituency (1) the  ReturningOfficer for that constituency had rejected, the(1)  (1952) S.C.R. 218.1087nomination paper of the appellant.  Thereupon the  appellantapplied	 to the High Court of Madras under Art. 226  of	 theConstitution for a writ of certiorari to quash the order  ofthe Returning Officer rejecting his nomination paper and  todirect the Returning Officer to include his name in the listof  valid  nominations to be published.	 The High  Court  ofMadras	dismissed the petition and the appellant brought  anappeal	to this Court.	The Full Court held that in view  ofthe provisions of Art. 329 (b) of the Constitution and s. 80of  the	 Representation of the People Act,  1951,  the	HighCourt had no jurisdiction to interfere with the order of theReturning  Officer.   The  main controversy  in	 the  appealcentered  round	 the words "no election shall be  called  inquestion except by an election petition " occurring in	Art.329  (b).  The most important question for determination  bythis  Court  was  the  meaning to be given  to	the  word  "election " in Art. 329 (b).  This Court said at page 226:"That word has by long usage in connection with the  processof   selection	of  proper  representatives  in	  democraticinstitutions, acquired both a wide and a narrow meaning.  Inthe narrow sense, it is used to mean the final selection  ofa  candidate which may embrace the result of the  poll	whenthere  is polling or a particular candidate  being  returnedunopposed  when	 there is no poll.  In the wide	 sense,	 theword is used to connote the entire process culminating in  acandidate being declared elected."After  referring to the cases of Srinivasalu  v.  Kuppuswami(1)  and Sat Narain v. Hanuman Prasad (2 ) and a passage  inHalsbury's  Laws  of England, 2nd edition, Volume  12,	page237,  this  Court took the view that the  word	"election  "could  be  and had been properly used with  respect  to	 theentire	process	 which	consisted  of  several	stages	 andembraced  many steps some of which might have  an  importantbearing	 on the result of the process and,  therefore,	heldthat  in  view	of the provisions of Art.  329	(b)  of	 theConstitution  and s. 80 of the Representation of the  PeopleAct,  1951, the High Court had no jurisdiction to  interferewith the(1) A.I.R. (1928) Mad. 253, 255.(2) A.I.R. (1945) Lah. 85.1088order of the Returning Officer under Art. 226.	The only waysuch  an order could be called in question was as laid	downin  Art.  329  (b)  of the Constitution and  s.	 80  of	 theRepresentation	of the People Act, 1951, and this  could  bedone  only  by	an election petition  presented	 before	 theElection  Tribunal  after  the entire  process	of  electionculminating  in a candidate being declared elected had	beengone  through.	 On such election petition being  filed	 theElection  Tribunal would be properly bound to  inquire	intoand  decide  "all doubts and disputes arising out of  or  inconnection with the election " irrespective of the stage  inthe  entire  election  process to which	 the  "	 doubts	 anddisputes relate".  We now approach the construction of	Art.71 in the light of the decision of this Court.As  already  indicated Art. 71(1) confers  jurisdiction	 andpower on this Court to inquire into and decide id all doubtsand  disputes  arising	out of or  in  connection  with	 theelection  of a President or Vice-President".   The  questionis:  Is	 there in this Article or in any other part  of	 theConstitution or anywhere else any indication as to the	timewhen  such inquiry is to be held ? In the first place,	Art.71  postulates	an  " election of  the	President  or  Vice-President  "  and  provides  for  inquiry  into	 doubts	 anddisputes  arising  out	of or in  connection  with  such  anelection.   What  is the meaning to be given to the  word  "election " as used in this Article?  If we give to the	word,election" occurring in Art. 71(1) the same wide meaning  ascomprising  the	 entire election process  culminating  in  acandidate  being declared elected, then clearly the  inquiryis  to be made after such completed election, i.e., after  acandidate  is declared to be elected as President  or  Vice-President  as  the case may be.	 We see no reason  why	thisaccepted  meaning should not be given to the critical  word.In the second place, under cl. 3 of Art. 71, subject to	 theprovisions  of	this  Constitution, Parliament	may  by	 lawregulate  any  matter " relating to or	connected  with	 theelection " of a President or Vice-President.  The words herealso  are similar to those used in Art. 327 and are  equallywide enough to cover matters relating to or1089connected with any stage of the entire election process.  Inexercise of powers conferred on it by Art. 71(3), Parliamenthas enacted the Presidential and Vice-Presidential  ElectionAct,  1952  (XXXI  of  1952)  to  regulate  certain  mattersrelating  to  or connected with elections to the  office  ofPresident and Vice-President of India.	A glance through theprovisions  of	this Act will indicate that in the  view  ofParliament the time for the exercise of jurisdiction by thisCourt to inquire into and decide doubts and disputes arisingout  of or in connection with the Presidential	election  isafter the entire election process is completed.	 Under s. 14of   this   Act,  which	 corresponds  to  s.   80   of	 theRepresentation of the People Act, 1951, no election, meaningthe  election of the President or Vice-President,  shall  becalled in question except by an election petition  presentedto this Court in accordance with the provisions of Part	 IIIof  that Act and of the rules made by this Court under	Art.145.  Section 18, which lays down the grounds for  declaringthe  election  of a returned candidate to be void,  runs  asfollows:18.  Grounds  for  declaring  the  election  of	 a  returnedcandidate to be void:-If the Supreme Court is of opinion-(a)  that  the offence of bribery or undue influence at	 theelection has been committed by the returned candidate or  byany person with the connivance of the returned candidate; or(b)  that  the	result of the election has  been  materiallyaffected-(i)  by	 reason	 that  the  offence  of	 bribery  or   undueinfluence  at the election has been committed by any  personwho  is neither the returned candidate nor a  person  actingwith his connivance; or(ii)by the improper reception or refusal of a vote, or(iii)by	 the  non-compliance  with  the	 provisions  of	 theConstitution or of this Act or of any rules or, orders	madeunder this Act; or(c)  that  the nomination of any candidate has been  wronglyrejected or the nomination of the successful candidate or ofany other candidate who has1401090not withdrawn his candidature has been wrongly accepted;the Supreme Court shall declare the election of the returnedcandidate to be void.(2)  For  the  purposes	 of this section,  the	offences  ofbribery	 and  undue influence at an election have  the	samemeaning as in Chapter IX-A of the Indian Penal Code (Act XLVof 1860).It is quite clear from the language of the section that	 anyimproper  reception  or	 refusal  of a	vote,  or  any	non-compliance with the provisions of the Constitution or of theAct  or	 of any rules or orders made under the	Act  or	 theimproper  acceptance or rejection of a nomination paper	 maybe  made a ground for challenging the election.	 This  meansthat  all doubts and disputes relating to any stage  of	 theentire	election process is to be canvassed by	an  electionpetition  presented to this Court after the election in	 itswide sense is concluded.The  above  stated  interpretation appears to us  to  be  inconsonance with the other provisions of the Constitution andwith  good sense.  If doubt or dispute arising out of or  inconnection  with  the  election	 of  a	President  or  Vice-President can be brought before this Court before the  wholeelection  process is concluded then conceivably	 the  entireelection  may be held up till after the expiry of  the	fiveyears'	term  which will involve a  no-compliance  with	 themandatory  provisions  of  Art.	 62.   The  well  recognisedprinciple  of  election	 law, Indian and  English,  is	thatelections  should  not	be  held  up  and  that	 the  personaggrieved   should  not	 be  permitted	to   ventilate	 hisindividual interest in derogation of the general interest ofthe  people,  which requires that elections should  be	gonethrough	 according to the time schedule.  It is,  therefore,in  consonance both with the provisions of Art. 62 and	withgood sense to hold that the word "election" used in Art.  71means  the  entire  process  of	 election.   That  is	whatParliament  understood to be the meaning of Art.,, 71 as  isapparent   from	 the  Presidential   and   Vice-PresidentialElection Act, 1952.  Again this Court has framed rules underArt. 145 to regulate the1091procedure  and a perusal of those rules will  also  indicatethat  "	 all  doubts  and disputes  arising  out  of  or  inconnection  with  the  election	 of  a	President  or  Vice-President  "  should be brought before the court  after	 theresult	of the entire election is declared, that is to	say,after a candidate is declared to be elected to the office ofPresident or Vice-President.It  is pointed out that if the petitioners are compelled  towait  until after the entire election process  is  concludedand then to file election petitions, they will have to	showthat the result of the election has been materially affectedas  required  by  s.  18  of  the  Presidential	 and   Vice-Presidential Election Act, 1952.  It is contended that thereis  no reason why this extra, burden or hardship,  which  isnot  in terms imposed by Art. 71, should be placed upon	 thepetitioners.   It  is  not necessary  for  the	purposes  ofdisposing  of these petitions to express any opinion  as  tothe  validity or otherwise of this requirement of s. 18	 andwe  do not do so. But the plea of alleged  hardship  broughtabout  by s. 18 cannot alter the true meaning and import  ofArt. 71. In our judgment Art. 71 postulates an election	 andthe  word "election " occurring in Art. 71 means the  entireelection  process culminating in a candidate being  declaredelected	 and  doubts  and  disputes arising  out  of  or  inconnection with any of the stages of such completed electionhave to be inquired into and decided by this Court which, inpoint  of time, must necessarily be after the completion  ofthe entire process compendiously called the election.Learned	 counsel appearing for the petitioner in the  secondpetition  raised  an  additional  point	 that  the  ElectionCommission  by	fixing	the election on	 May  6,  1957,	 hasarbitrarily  deprived the members  representing	 territorialconstituencies	like  Kangra and Himachal Pradesh  of  theirright  to exercise and enjoy other privileges of  membershipof  Parliament.	 This argument was raised half heartedly  atthe  fag end of his argument in reply and was not  seriouslypressed.   In  any  event  he did  not	advance	 any  cogentargument showing how the petitioner had been deprived of theequal  protection of the law.  Elections have to be held  innumerous1092constituencies	and  different dates have to  be  fixed	 forholding	 the  actual elections in  different  constituenciesaccording   to	the  various  exigencies  relating  to	 theparticular  localities	in  which  the	constituencies	 aresituate.   No good ground has been established	for  holdingthat there has been any discrimination such as is prohibitedby  Art. 14 of the Constitution.  In so far as	the  allegeddiscrimination,	 if any, in breach of the  equal  protectionclause	of the Constitution may be said to be calculated  toraise  any  doubt  in connection with the  election  of	 thePresident  it  will, at best, be a  noncompliance  with	 theprovisions  of the Constitution which may or may not,  afterthe  conclusion	 of the entire election, be made  a  ground,under  s.  18  of  the	Presidential  and  Vice-PresidentialElection Act, 1952, for calling the election in question  asto which we need formulate no final opinion at this stage.We  express  no	 opinion  on  the  merits  of  any  of	 thecontroversies  between the parties, but, for  the  foregoingreasons,  we hold that the present petitions  are  prematureand  cannot  be entertained at this stage.   We,  therefore,dismiss	 the  petitions	 Nos.  63 and  64  of  1957.   CivilMiscellaneous  Petitions Nos. 563 and 564 of 1957 will	alsostand dismissed.			      Petitions dismissed.