PETITIONER:RAM PRAKASH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF PUNJABDATE OF JUDGMENT:02/09/1958BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERSINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR    1		  1959 SCR 1210 CITATOR INFO : E	    1964 SC1184	 (3,7,14) E	    1968 SC 832	 (9) RF	    1988 SC1883	 (120)ACT:Criminal Law--Evidence--Retracted confession of co-accused-Evidentiary   value--Necessity	 of    corroboration--IndianEvidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), s. 30.HEADNOTE:The  appellant	was tried along with P for  the	 offence  ofmurder.	  The  prosecution case was that the  appellant,  inconspiracy with P who was employed as a servant in the houseof the deceased, took advantage of the deceased being  alonein  the house with her child, went upstairs and	 killed	 herand  stole her ornaments, while P remained  downstairs	withthe  child.  The evidence upon which the prosecution  reliedfor  conviction	 consisted  of	the  confession	 of  P,	 thestatement of the appellant which led to the recovery of	 theornaments  belonging to the deceased from the possession  ofthe  mistress  of the appellant, the recovery  of  a  blood-stained dagger from his belongings at the police station andhis conduct after the murder.  The confession of P was laterretracted by him in the Court of 'Session.  It was contendedfor the appellant that a retracted confession of an  accusedcannot be used against his co-accusedHeld,  that  a	voluntary and true  confession	made  by  anaccused though it was subsequently retracted by him, can  betaken  into consideration against a co-accused by virtue  Ofs.  30	of  the	 Indian Evidence Act, but  as  a  matter  ofprudence  and practice the court should not act upon  it  tosustain	 a  conviction of the co-accused  without  full	 andstrong corroboration in material particulars both as to	 thecrime and as to his connection with that crime.The amount of credibility to be attached to a retracted con-fession	  would	 depend	 upon  the  circumstances  of	eachparticular case.Held, further, that on the evidence in the case the  confes-sion   of  P  was  voluntary  and  true	 and  was   stronglycorroborated  in  material particulars both  concerning	 thegeneral	 story told in the confession concerning  the  crimeand the appellant's connection with crime.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: CriminalAppeal No. 77 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedFebruary  26,  1958, of the Punjab High	 Court	in  CriminalAppeal No. 860 of 1957, arising out1551220of  the judgment and order dated December 23, 1957,  of	 theAdditional  Sessions Judge at Ambala in Sessions No.  20  of1957 and Trial No. 32 of 1957.Harnam Singh and Sadhu Singh, for the appellant.Har Parshad and T. M. Sen, for the respondent.1958.  September 2. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyIMAM J.-The appellant and one Prem were tried for the murderof Nirmala Devi, wife of Banwari Lal, a Practising lawyer atRupar.	The appellant was sentenced to death while Prem	 wassentenced to imprisonment for life.  The appellant and	Premappealed  against their conviction and sentence to the	HighCourt  of  Punjab.  Their appeals were dismissed  and  theirconviction  and	 sentence were affirmed by the	High  Court.The  appellant	obtained from this Court  special  leave  toappeal	and  in	 the present appeal the	 only  question	 forconsideration is whether the appellant was rightly convictedand  sentenced for the murder of Nirmala Devi.	The case  ofPrem is not before us.At Rupar, Banwari Lal practised as a lawyer.  His wife,	 thedeceased Nirmala Devi lived with him there with their child,eight  months  old.  With them also  lived  --Banwari  Lal'ssister Vina, a girl of about 16 to 17 years of age.  BanwariLal had employed Prem as a servant about four months  beforethe murder of Nirmala Devi on February 12, 1957.  This	Premwas a youngster of about fourteen years of age at that time.According  to the prosecution, lie was an associate  of	 theappellant who was posted at Rupar in the capacity of a foot-constable  in  the  police force.  The	appellant  and	Prembecame friendly and it is said that the appellant had an eyeon the ornaments of the deceased Nirmala Devi, which she wasin the habit of wearing when she went out.  The deceased wasa  young person in her twenties and of good character.	 Sheused  to  be left alone in the house with  her	child,	whenBanwari	 Lal went to court and Vina went to  school.   Prem,however, used to remain at the house.  It is the case of theprosecution that the appellant in1221conspiracy  with Prem took advantage of the  deceased  beingalone  in  the house, when the appellant went  upstairs	 andkilled	Nirmala	 Devi and stole her  ornaments,	 while	Premremained down-stairs with her child.  Vina had returned fromschool	round  about, 12-30 in the afternoon as it  was	 therecess	time.  At that time Nirmala Devi was in the  drawingroom feeding her child.	 Prem was also at the house at	thattime.	Vina again returned to the house at about 3-45	p.m.She enquired from Prem as to where Nirmala Devi was and	 wastold  by  him that he did not know as he  himself  had	beenabsent	from the house.	 Vina, thereafter, went upstairs  tothe kitchen to take her food.  Banwari Lal had returned fromcourt  at about 3-15 p.m., earlier than usual, as he had  toattend an election meeting at the Municipal Office.  He	 wasaccompanied by a pleader Sudarshan Kumar Jain who was  goingto  Chandigarh.	 He had intended to give him a cup  of	tea,but  finding the door leading through the staircase  to	 theresidential  portion looked and thinking that his  wife	 wasnot at home, lie and his friend left for the Municipal Hall.Banwari	 Lal  returned to his house at about  4-45  p.m.  Heenquired from Prem as to where his wife was and was informedby him that she had gone out.  He went upstairs and saw	 hissister	Vina eating her food.  On opening the drawing  room,however, Banwari Lal was stunned to find his wife lying deadon  the	 floor	in  a pool of  blood.  lie  noticed  severalinjuries on her and that some of her jewellery was  missing.He  proceeded to the police station almost opposite  to	 hishouse and lodged a First Information Report about the murderat 5 p.m.There  can  be no manner of doubt that an  audacious  and  abrutal murder of a young and a defenceless person had  takenplace  with the intention of robbing her of  her  ornaments.The  fact of murder has been apply proved and has  not	beenseriously questioned.  The only matter for consideration  isWhether	 the evidence established that the deceased  NirmalaDevi  was murdered by the appellant with the  assistance  ofPrem.The evidence upon which the prosecution relied for1222conviction  is the confession of Prem, the statement of	 theappellant  which  led  to  the	recovery  of  the  ornamentsbelonging  to  Nirmala Devi from the possession of  one	 RajRani  a mistress of the appellant, the recovery of a  blood-stained dagger from his belongings at the police station andhis conduct after the murder.So  far	 as  the confession of Prem was	 concerned,  it	 wasretracted by him in the Court of Session.  Prem's  statementunder  s. 342 to the Committing Magistrate,  however,  whichhad  been brought on to the record under s. 287 of the	Codeof  Criminal Procedure, clearly stated that  the  confessionwas   a	 voluntary  one.   Indeed,  his	 statement  to	 theCommitting Magistrate showed that the crime was committed bythe  appellant	and  that  Prem	 had  assisted	him  in	 thecommission of that crime.  Although in the Court of  SessionPrem had retracted his confession, his memorandum of  appealin  the	 High Court would indirectly suggest that  the	con-fession	 made  by  him was voluntary and  true.	  Before  weconsider  whether the confession was a voluntary and a	trueone,  it is necessary to deal with the submission on  behalfof the appellant that the confession, having been  retractedby Prem, is irrelevant so far as the appellant is  concernedas  the	 retracted confession of an accused cannot  be	usedagainst his co-accused.Although  on behalf of the appellant it had not been  arguedthat  the retracted confession of Prem was inadmissible,  weregard	the submission that it was irrelevant and cannot  beused against the appellant as tantamount to saying the	samething.	Section 30 of the Indian Evidence Act states:" When more persons than one are being tried jointly for thesame  offence, and a confession made by one of such  personsaffecting himself and some other of such persons is  proved,the  Court  may take into consideration such  confession  asagainst such other person as well as against the person	 whomakes such confession."It  will be clear from the terms of this section that  wheremore  persons than one are being tried jointly for the	sameoffence,  a  confession made by any one	 of  them  affectinghimself and any one of his co-accused1223can  be	 taken	into consideration by  the  court  not	onlyagainst the maker of the confession but also against his co-accused.   The	Evidence Act nowhere provides  that  if	 theconfession   is	  retracted,  it  cannot   be	taken	intoconsideration  against	the  co-accused	 or  the  confessingaccused.  Accordingly, the provisions of the Evidence Act donot  prevent  the  Court from taking  into  consideration  aretracted confession against the confessing accused and	 hisco-accused.   Not a single decision of any of the courts  inIndia  was  placed  before  us	to  show  that	a  retractedconfession  was	 not admissible in evidence or that  it	 wasirrelevant  as against a co-accused.  An examination of	 thereported  decisions  of	 the various High  Courts  in  Indiaindicates that the preponderance of opinion is in favour  ofthe  view that although it may be taken	 into  considerationagainst a co-accused by virtue of the provisions of s. 30 ofthe  Indian Evidence Act, its value was extremely  weak	 andthere  could  be  no conviction with  out  the	fullest	 andstrongest   corroboration  on  material	 particulars.	 Thecorroboration  in the full sense implies  corroboration	 notonly  as  to  the factum of the crime but  also	 as  to	 theconnection  of	the  (co-accused with that  crime.   In	 ouropinion, there appears to be considerable justification	 forthis  view.  The amount of credibility to be attached  to  aretracted   confession,	 however,  would  depend  upon	 thecircumstances of each particular case.	Although a retractedconfession  is admissible against a co-accused by virtue  ofs.  30 of the Indian Evidence Act, as a matter	of  prudenceand  practice  a court would not ordinarily act upon  it  toconvict	 a co-accused without corroboration.  On this  basisit  is now to be seen whether the confession  was  voluntaryand true.  It will then be necessary to consider whether theconfession  has	 received full and strong  corroboration  inmaterial   particulars	both  as  to  the  crime   and	 theappellant's connection with that crime.It  was strongly urged that the police had adopted a  deviceto get the accused Prem into their custody again on a chargeof  theft  as lie had already been placed  in  the  judiciallock-up after his arrest in1224connection with the murder of the deceased Nirmala Devi.  Hewas arrested on June 25, 1957, in connection with a burglarywhich  had taken place on December 5, 1956, and he had	beensince  then  in	 police	 custody  in  connection  with	 theinvestigation of that case until July 10, 1957, the last dayof remand to police custody.  On July 10, 1957, Prem made  aconfession  before  a Magistrate concerning  the  murder  ofNirmala	 Devi.	Prem was discharged in the burglary case  onJuly  20, 1957.	 Having adopted this device of getting	Preminto  police  custody  the  police were	 in  a	position  toexercise  great influence upon Prem, a, young' lad of  about14  years of age.  When lie made his confession on July	 10,1957, he must have been still labouring under the  influenceof  the	 police	 and sufficient time was not  given  by	 theMagistrate  to remove that influence.  The Magistrate  oughtnot  to have recorded his confession on July 10,  1957.	  Heought  to have remanded Prem to jail custody for a few	daysin  order that the police influence may be removed from	 hismind.  We have examined the record and find no justificationfor the suggestion made that the police adopted a device  togot the accused Prem in to their custody again by  arrestinghim  in the burglary case of December 5, 1956.	It  is	truethat the accused Prem was discharged from the burglary	caseon July 20, 1957, but there is nothing on the present recordto suggest that his arrest in the burglary case of  December5,  1956,  was without justification and that  it  was	donepurely	for  the  purpose of getting him  back	into  policecustody.   It is true that Prem had been in  police  custodyfrom  June  25, 1957 to July 10, 1957,	and  the  Magistratemight  as well have refrained from recording his  confessionon July 10, 1957.  It is clear, however, from the record  ofthe Magistrate that at 1 p.m. the accused Prem was  producedbefore	 him  by  the  police  for  the	 recording  of	 hisconfession.   The  Magistrate told him that lie	 was  not  apolice	officer but a Magistrate and that he was at  libertyto think over the matter whether he would volunteer to	makea  confession  and  gave him time, until  2  p.m.  for	thispurpose.  He further explained to Prem that he should1225consider  himself quite free and not make a statement  underthe  influence	or  temptation of anybody.  At	2  p.m.	 theMagistrate took various precautions.  All the doors and	 thewindows of his room were closed.  Everyone, except Prem, wasturned out.  The police were asked to stand in the  verandahfrom  where  they could not see Prem.  Prem was	 again	toldthat he must regard himself as quite free and should not  beunder  the  influence of the police or	anybody	 else.	 TheMagistrate  then put a series of questions which  have	beenrecorded in the form of questions and answers.	By  question7, the Magistrate enquired how long Prem had been in  policecustody	 and  from where he bad been brought  that  day,  towhich,	the answer was that some 5 months back he  had	beenarrested  since then sometimes he had been sent to jail	 andsometimes  had been kept in police custody. By	question  8,the  Magistrate asked whether he was kept awake during	thatperiod or had been given greased diet (Mnaggan giza,  etc.),which we understand to mean whether he had been given greasyfood which would induce a sleepy condition in persons eatingsuch food, to which question he replied that he had  enjoyedregular	 sleep	and  had been taking common  diet.   At	 thebeginning,  of course, the police had kept him	awake.	 TheMagistrate  also  enquired whether the police or  any  otherperson had made any promise or had given any undertaking  tohelp  Prem  or	had  given all	temptation  to	him  or	 hadinfluenced  or frightened him. If so, he should	 state	thisfully from his heart, to which Prem replied that he had	 notbeen given any promise, temptation or inducement, nor was hesubjected to fear or exhortation.  He had been merely  askedto make a true statement.  Prem then said that he would makehis statement of his own free will and the Magistrate  couldbelieve him or not.  The Magistrate also asked Prem  whetherany one had beaten him or if there was any mark of injury onhis  body,  to which, the answer was 'no'.   The  Magistratethen  examined the body of Prem and found that there was  nomark of injury on his person.  The Magistrate then asked  asto why he was making a confession, to which, Prem answered1226that he was doing so of his own free will and to lessen	 theburden	of his heart.  The nature of the questions  put	 andthe  manner  in which the Magistrate examined  Prem  clearlyshowed	that  the  Magistrate took every  precaution  to  besatisfied  whether  Prem  was  going  to  make	a  voluntarystatement.   We	 are  satisfied that during  the  period  ofpolice	custody between the 25th of June and July 10,  1957,Prem  was  not induced to make a confession.   He  made	 theconfession  voluntarily.  That the confession was  voluntaryfinds  support	from  Prem's  statement	 to  the  CommittingMagistrate under s. 342 of the Code of' Criminal  Procedure.In  that  statement Prem told the Magistrate  in  answer  tovarious questions the following story: He had been  employedas  a  domestic servant by the lawyer Banwari Lal.   He	 haddeveloped during this period friendship with the  appellant.The  appellant	had told him that he would  commit  rape  onNirmala Devi and would rob her of her ornaments and, if	 sheresisted, he would murder her.	He informed the appellant onFebruary 11, 1957, that Nirmala -Devi would be alone in	 herhouse  at  about  mid -day on February	12,  1957.   He	 hadreceived on February 11, 1957, a dagger wrapped in a  pajamafrom  the appellant and bad kept it in the store behind	 theoffice of Banwari Lal On February 12, 1957, he informed	 theappellant that Nirmala Devi was alone in the house.  He	 hadhanded	over the dagger and the pajama to the  appellant  onFebruary  12,  after taking it out of the store	 room.	 Theappellant  had	sought his assistance in the  commission  ofrape,  robbery	and murder of Nirmala Devi and he  had	beenpromised a half share in the booty.  To the question whetherhe  had	 kept watch over the house of Banwari Lal  when	 theappellant entered it for committing rape, robbery and murderof  Nirmala  Devi, Prem answered that he was made  to  standnear the stair-case by the appellant and that he kept  watchwhile  the  appellant  committed  the  crime.	He   finallyadmitted  to the Committing Magistrate that  the  confessionwhich  had been recorded on July 10, 1957, was	a  voluntaryconfession.  When asked whether he had to say anything else,Prem told the Committing1227Magistrate that he had made a true statement before him	 andalso  in  the Court of the Magistrate who had  recorded	 hisconfession.   Shorn  of details the substance of  the  storytold by Prem to the Committing Magistrate is in keeping withthe  substance of his confession recorded on July 10,  1957.It is to be further remembered that the statement of Prem tothe  Committing Magistrate was brought on to the  record  ofthe  Court of Session under s. 287 of the Code	of  CriminalProcedure which directs that the statement should be read asevidence.   Although  Prem retracted the confession  in	 theCourt of Session, his memorandum of appeal filed in the HighCourt  showed that he had acted under the influence  of	 theappellant and had been allured by him to achieve his object.He,  however, pleaded that be should not have received	suchsevere	punishment.  On the contrary, lie should  have	beenacquitted.   These circumstances clearly indicate  that	 theconfession  recorded  on  July 10,  1957,  was	a  voluntaryconfession.   It  remains now to be seen whether  it  was  atruthful confession.Prem  asserted	in his confession that he  had	acquaintancewith  the appellant previous to the appellant's	 posting  toRupar  and their association continued at Rupar.   There  isnothing inherently improbable in this story of Prem.  It  istrue  that there is not much evidence to  corroborate  Prem.that  lie  and	the appellant were acquainted  and  used  toassociate.  Banwari Lal had seen them talking to each  otheronce  or  twice before the murder.  The	 police	 station  atwhich  the appellant was posted was almost opposite  to	 thehouse  of Banwari Lal where Prem was employed as  a  servantand  there was every probability of the appellant  and	Premmeeting.   It  is significant that on the day of  murder  ofNirmala	 Devi,	in the afternoon, Prem was  present  in	 thecompound   of  the  police  station  with  a  child   in   aperambulator.	Foot-constable	Gurbachan  Singh,  P.W.	  4,enquired  from Prem as to why he had gone inside the  policestation.  On this the appellant asked Gurbachan Singh not toremonstrate with Prem as he was a mere, boy.  Gurbachan1561228Singh  had  stated that previously he had  never  seen	Premgoing  inside the police station with a	 perambulater.	 Theintervention of the appellant suggests that he knew Prem andwas friendly towards him.  Prem's story that he was employedas a servant by Banwari Lal is corroborated by the  evidenceof  Banwari  Lal  himself, his sister  Vina  and  his  clerkNaranjan  Das.	 In the nature of things there could  be  nocorroboration of Prem's story about the appellant's proposalto  rape and rob Nirmala Devi and, if necessary,  to  murderher.  According to Prem's confession a day before the murderhe  had	 been given a dagger by the appellant along  with  a_pajama and that Prem took the pajama and the dagger to	 theupper  storey of Banwari Lal's house having concealed it  inthe  kothri  of firewood which was near the office  room  ofBanwari Lal.  This part of his story receives  corroborationfrom  the evidence of Banwari Lal that after the  murder  hehad  found a blood-stained pajama, Exbt.  P. 14, banging  onthe  door  of  the store room which is at the  back  of	 theresidential portion of the house.  Banwari Lal is  supportedby Nand Lal, P.W. 34, Motor Mobile Patrol Sub-Inspector, whorecorded the First Information of Banwari Lal.	According tohim,  he found the pajama hanging on one of the shutters  ofan almirah fixed in the wall in the fuel room situate at theback  of the room where Nirmala Devi was found	lying  dead.It  was bloodstained.  Banwari Lal had clearly	stated	thatthis  pajama did not belong to him or any one in his  house.The  existence	of the pajama in Banwari Lal's	house  lendscorroboration  to the story of Prem that he had	 been  giventhis  pajama and that he had concealed it in the  kothri  offire-wood near the office of Banwari Lal.  The statement  ofPrem  that  he	had asked Raj sabziwala to  bring  down	 theperambulator  of  the  child  and  that	 he  did  so,  findscorroboration  from the evidence of Gurbachan Singh that  inthe  afternoon he found Prem accused in the  police  stationwith a child in a perambulator.The presence of the accused Prem at Banwari Lal's house nearabout the time of the murder appears to1229be clear.   When Vina had left for her	school at 9-45 a.m.,Prem was in  the house.	 Vina returned to the house    fromher school at about 12-30 noon.	 At that time	  Prem	 waspresent	 in the verandah in front of the office.   When	 shefinally	 returned  from	 the  school  at  about	 3-45  p.m.,apparently  Prem  was not in the house but  arrived  shortlythereafter.   The murder was committed at any  time  between12-30 p.m. and 2-15 p.m. if the appellant was the  murderer,because Gurbachan Singh's evidence showed that the appellantwas at the thana at 2-15 p.m. Apparently, the appellant wentout with Gurbachan Singh and returned to the thana with	 himin time for Gurbachan Singh to be on duty from 3 p.m. If theappellant was the murderer he must have committed the murderbefore	2-15 p.m. Nirmala Devi was alive at 12-30 p.m.	whenVina saw her feeding her child.	 Assuming that Vina did	 notstay  long, as she had come to get some money to purchase  acopy-book,  it	would  not be unreasonable  to	assume	thatNirmala	 Devi  was  alive  up to 12-40	or  12-45  p.m.	 Theinterval  of  time  between that and  2-15  p.m.,  when	 theappellant  was	seen at the police station, is about  1	 1/2hours.	It would be probable that during this time Prem	 waspresent	 in the house and when he says that lie was  presentthere  there is no inherent improbability in his  statement.At  3-45 p.m., when Vina arrived, no doubt Prem was  not  inthe house, but he came shortly thereafter and Vina took fromhim the child of Nirmala Devi.	This clearly shows that Premhad  gone  out of the house with the child of  Nirmala	Deviwhich  one would not normally expect him to do at that	timeof  the	 day,  if  Nirmala Devi had left  the  house  to  doshopping  or  to visit anyone.	If Nirmala Devi was  in	 thehouse and alive it was most unlikely that Prem accused wouldhave  taken  her child out of the house.   Prem's  statementthat he was amusing the child while the appellant was  doinghis nefarious work appears to be true, because the child waswith  him and he had been seen at the police station with  achild in a perambulator.  If the circumstances tend to	showthat  in  all probability Prem was in the house	 from  12-30p.m. to 2-15 p.m. then his1230story  that he was present at the house when  the  appellantcame  there  appears  to be a  truthful	 statement.   It  issignificant that when Vina arrived at the house at 3-45 p.m.she  found  the door of the stair-case	locked.	  When	Premarrived she saw the key in his hand, although Prem had	saidit  was lying on the floor.  He opened the lock of the	doorof  the stair-case with that key and Vinia went upstairs  tothe second floor where she went to the kitchen and took	 herfood.	When Banwari Lal arrived at his house at about	3-15p.m.  he  found	 his office room locked	 from  outside.	  Hewanted to go to the residential portion for taking tea,	 butfound  the  door  of the  stair-case  locked  from  outside.Finding	  the  door  of	 the  stair-case  leading   to	 theresidential  portion of his house locked, he came  down	 andwent  away  in connection with the election  work.   On	 hisreturn	he enquired from Prem about the whereabouts  of	 hiswife  and Prem told him that she had gone out. He wished  togo upstairs to the residential portion of the house and Premat  his request opened the lock of the stair-case,  the	 keybeing  with  him.   According  to  Banwari  Lal,  the  usualpractice  was to lock the door of the office  which  adjoinsthe  stair-case and to bolt the other door from inside,	 buton  the day of the murder the door adjoining the  stair-casewas  looked  while the other door was lying  open.   BanwariLal's clerk, Naranjan Das, came to the house at 4-15 or 4-30p.m.  He went up to the verandah in front of the office	 andfound both the doors of the office locked from outside.	  Heasked  Prem to open the office, but Prem told him  that	 thekey  of	 one  of  the locks which  was	fixed  on  the	dooradjoining the stair-case, had been lost.  He gave the key ofthe other lock and then Prem took out a key from his  pocketand  opened the lock fixed on the other door of the  office.There is no reason to distrust all this evidence which wouldindicate  that	after Vina had left the house on  her  firstvisit  at  about 12-30 p.m. the two doors were	locked	fromoutside which was something unusual and that the keys of thelooks  of these doors were with Prem.  He had given  evasiveanswers about the keys to Vinia and Naranjan Das1231while  the key was in his pocket.  These circumstances	alsoindicate  the truthfulness of Prem's statement that  he	 waspresent in the house during the period in which Nirmala Deviwas  murdered.	 His statement in the  confession  that	 theappellant had locked the door and had thrown the key in tileoffice	verandah  and that while he sat	 there,	 the  child,while  playing,	 picked up the key and that he said  to	 thegirl  (presumably  Vina) there was the key and then  he	 un-locked	the  door  appears to be true.	 Reference  in	somedetail	to the various statements of Prem in the  confessionand  the  circumstances proved by the  evidence	 of  variouswitnesses  became  necessary in order to  ascertain  whetherPrem had made a truthful statement about his presence at thehouse  during the period in which Nirmala Devi was  murderedand  also  as  to the part he had played  in  assisting	 theappellant  to commit the murder.  While it is true  that  inthe  confession	 Prem  does not	 attribute  to	himself	 anyparticipation  in  the murder itself, it is not to  be	for-gotten that the murder of Nirmala Devi could not have  takenplace without his aid.	Whoever entered the house of BanwariLal in broad day light could not have gone upstairs  withoutthe  knowledge	and cooperation of Prem.  According  to	 hisstatement  lie knew what was the intention of the  appellantand  to assist him in the accomplishment of his	 purpose  hehad  concealed	in  his master's house the  pajama  and	 thedagger	given  to  him	by the appellant.   If	he  did	 notactually  participate  in  the murder he  would	 be  equallyguilty	of the murder if that murder was committed with	 hisaid  and  his  connivance.   The  confession,  as  a  whole,concerning  the murder of the deceased appears to us  to  betrue  and  we  have  no hesitation,  after  a  very  carefulconsideration  of  all the circumstances  appearing  in	 thecase,  in saying so.  In our opinion, Prem's confession	 wasnot only voluntary and true but it had been corroborated  inmaterial particulars regarding the general story told by himin his confession.  The other question which now remains forconsideration  is whether the confession  received  materialcorroboration  connecting the appellant with the  murder  ofNirmala Devi.1232Amongst	 the appellant's possessions a dagger was  recoveredwhich  appeared	 to be blood-stained but owing to  the	longdelay  in  sending it to the Chemical  Examiner	 its  origincould  not  be	determined.  From the  medical	evidence  itappears that the dagger in question could have inflicted thekind  of  injuries  suffered  by  Nirmala  Devi.   The	mostimportant  corroboration,  however, is the recovery  of	 theornaments  of the deceased.  These ornaments,  according  toBanwari	 Lal, she had been wearing on the day of the  murderwhen  he  left	for court.  On some statement  made  by	 theappellant   his	 mistress  Raj	Rani  was  visited  by	 theauthorities  and  in the presence of  respectable  witnessessome  ornaments were recovered and they were  identified  asthe  ornaments	of the deceased.  The evidence of  Raj	Ranialso  showed that these ornaments were given to her  by	 theappellant.   She apparently had no reason to depose  againstthe appellant, because she had said in her evidence that shewished	to  meet  the appellant before giving  clue  to	 theornaments  and that she wished to give the ornaments to	 thepolice in his presence.	 The defence case was not that theseornaments  did not belong to the deceased but that,  on	 thecontrary,  they were hers but had been produced	 by  BanwariLal during the police investigation and that it was  falselyalleged	 that  they had been recovered from Raj	 Rani.	 Theevidence  of  Charan  Dass,  P.	 W.  24,  President  of	 theMunicipal Committee of Rupar, however, clearly shows that inhis presence the appellant made a statement to the police tothe  effect  that one gold kara and seven gold	bangles	 hadbeen  given by him to Raj Rani.	 This statement was made  onAugust	3, 1957.  His evidence also shows that on August  9,1957, he accompanied the police party from Rupar to Jangpuraand  that  Raj Rani took them to her  sister's	house.	 Shebrought	 out a trunk from inside the room.  She	 opened	 thelock  of  the  trunk and produced from it a  tin  box  whichcontained a gold kara and seven gold bangles.  The  evidenceof GoriShanker, a Municipal Commissioner of Rupar is to	 thesame effect and corroborated Charan Dass.  The courts  belowbelieved these two witnesses.  We have examined1233their  evidence with some care in view of the submission  onbehalf of the appellant that they should not be relied upon.There is nothing in their evidence to show that they were inany way hostile to the appellant or had any motive to deposeagainst	 him.	The  courts  below  having  believed   thesewitnesses, we would not ordinarily go behind their view on aquestion  of  fact.   Having regard, however,  to  the	con-sequences which arise as a result of the acceptance of theirevidence  in  this particular case, we have  examined  theirevidence  in the light of the submission made on  behalf  ofthe  appellant.	 It was suggested that at the earlier  stagethe police investigation was not properly conducted and	 thepublic	were  dissatisfied.   A	 deputation  of	 influentialpersons	 met the Chief Minister as a result of which a	moreactive	and  thorough investigation took place.	 It  may  bethat  influential  persons of Rupar  interviewed  the  ChiefMinister,  being dissatisfied with the manner in  which	 theinvestigation was taking place.	 There is, however,  nothingto show that Charan Dass or Gori Shanker were amongst  thosewho  had  interviewed the Chief Minister or  that  they	 hadtaken  part in any agitation against the  police  concerningthe manner of the investigation.  It is difficult to believethat  two responsible persons such as the President  of	 theMunicipal  Committee and one of its members would go out  oftheir  way to depose to certain events which  would  providevery  strong evidence against the appellant and lead to	 hisconviction on a capital charge, unless they had really heardthe statement of the appellant and witnessed the recovery asdeposed to by them.  It was then suggested that, apparently,Charan	Dass had no real reason to go to the police  stationon  August 3, 1957, and, therefore, his story that he  heardthe  appellant make the statement which led to the  recoveryof  the	 ornaments  was false.	Charan	Dass,  however,	 hadstated	the reason for his visiting the police station.	  Hewent  there  to complain to the police	that  people  parkedtheir  push-carts  in  the bazar  and  thus  obstructed	 thepassage.  In our opinion, as the President of the  MunicipalCommittee of Rupar, if a nuisance was1234being  created	by people parking their	 push-carts  in	 thebazar,	it was a natural thing for him to go to	 the  policestation in order to get such obstruction removed and for thepolice	to see that the nuisance did not continue.   We	 canfind  nothing strange in the conduct of Charan Dass or	GoriShanker	 in  having  gone  to  the  police  station  in	 thecircumstances deposed to by them.  We have no hesitation  inbelieving the evidence of Charan Dass and Gori Shanker	thatthe  appellant	made a statement to the effect that  he	 hadgiven  one gold kara and seven gold bangles to Raj Rani	 andthat  the  same	 were  recovered  from	Raj  Rani  in  theirpresence.   It would appear, therefore, on the	evidence  ofRaj Rani and these witnesses, that not long after the murderof  Nirmala  Devi  the appellant was in	 possession  of	 herornaments  and	that  he had given them to  Raj	 Rani.	 Theornaments  being in possession of the appellant	 soon  afterthe murder would show that he either stole the ornaments  orwas  in	 possession  of them knowing  or  having  reason  tobelieve that they were stolen properties.  Nirmala Devi	 hadbeen  murdered	by  someone who had  stolen  her  ornaments.According to the confession of Prem it was the appellant whohad gone up-stairs where Nirmala Devi was Sometime after thedeparture  of Vina.  He had given the appellant	 the  pajamaand  the dagger.  Thereafter, the appellant left  the  houseleaving	 the  pajama  behind.  After the  departure  of	 theappellant  no  outsider	 entered the house.   It  is  clear,therefore,  that in order to steal the ornaments  the  thiefkilled	Nirmala	 Devi.	The circumstances  clearly  indicatethat the thief was no other than the appellant.	 It seems tous,  therefore, that the confession of Prem receives  strongand substantial corroboration connecting the appellant	withthe crime of the murder of the deceased Nirmala Devi.The conduct of the appellant from 2-15 p.m. onwards  clearlyshows  that  he was in a disturbed state of  mind  which  isconsistent  with  his  having committed	 the  crime,  It  iscurious	 that lie was uttering the word I Nirmala.   It	 hadbeen  suggested to Gurbachan Singh that the  Assistant	Sub-Inspector Rikhi Ram had a1235daughter with whom the appellant had illicit connection	 andthat  her name was Nirmala, but the witness stated  that  hehad  no knowledge about it.  The appellant in his  statementunder  s. 342 of the Code of Criminal Procedure	 before	 theSessions Judge admitted that he was shouting out the name ofNirmala but he had a love affair with a girl named  Nirmala,daughter  of Rikhi Ram.	 We are not prepared to	 accept	 theexplanation  of the appellant as to how he was	calling	 outthe  name  of Nirmala so soon after the	 murder	 of  NirmalaDevi.  This conduct of the appellant may not by itself	havebeen  corroboration  of sufficient importance  to  enable  acourt  to convict the appellant on the retracted  confessionof Prem.  No stronger and no better corroboration,  however,of  the	 confession of Prem could be had than  the  evidencewhich  showed that the appellant had been in  possession  ofNirmala Devi's ornaments soon after her murder.There  were  several comments made on the  evidence  by	 thelearned Advocate for the appellant, but those comments	werewith  reference to unimportant matters and were not  at	 allrelevant.   In	an  appeal  by	special	 leave	it  is	 notordinarily  permissible to make submissions on questions  offact.	The  principal	matter	with  which  we	 have	beenconcerned in this appeal was whether the confession of	Premhad been corroborated in material particulars regarding	 thegeneral	 story	told  by him  and  in  material	 particularstending	 to  connect the appellant with the  murder  of	 thedeceased.   We	have  no  hesitation  in  saying  that	 theconfession  of	Prem  has been amply  corroborated  in	bothrespects.  Recovery of the ornaments of the deceased at	 theinstance  of the appellant incriminated him to	the  fullestextent	and  lent the strongest corroboration  to  the	con-fession	 of  Prem from which it was apparent that  no  otherperson than the appellant could have murdered Nirmala Devi.The appeal is accordingly dismissed.Appeal	dismissed.1571236