PETITIONER:MADHUBHAI AMATHALAL GANDHI	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE UNION OF INDIA.DATE OF JUDGMENT:17/08/1960BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)KAPUR, J.L.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1961 AIR   21		  1961 SCR  (1) 191 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1964 SC 648	 (46) R	    1972 SC1982	 (4) R	    1987 SC1527	 (21)ACT:Stock  Exchange-Rules  for  membership-Notification   layingconditions  restricting	 membership-Classification   betweenactive members and others-Whether unreasonable or  infringedfundamental  rights-Securities Contracts  (Regulation)	Act,1956, (42 of 1956) s. 4. --Securities-Contracts (Regulation)Rules, 1957, rr. 17-22.HEADNOTE:The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, was enactedwith  the object of preventing undesirable  transactions  insecurities  by regulating the stock exchange  business,	 andthe  Act  conferred an effective controlling  power  on	 theCentral Government over the stock exchange.  In exercise  ofthe power conferred on the Central Government to make  rulesthe   Central  Government  made	 rules	described   as	 theSecurities  Contracts (Regulation) Rules,  1957,  providing,inter alia, for the qualification for membership of a  stockexchange  seeking recognition etc.  After the Act came	intoforce  two  Companies, namely, the Native  Share  and  StockBrokers'  Association and the Indian Stock Exchange  Limiteddoing stock exchange business in Greater Bombay applied	 forrecognition under the Act.  The Government after consideringthe  merits of the companies and the relevant  circumstancesissued a notification dated August 31, 1957, recognising theNative Share and Stock Brokers' Association under the name "The Stock Exchange, Bombay " subject to certain	 conditions.One of the conditions was that the members of the other com-pany,  India  Stock Exchange Limited, would be	entitled  toapply for membership of the Stock Exchange, Bombay, providedthey  were  active  members of	the  Indian  Stock  ExchangeLimited for 12 months immediately preceding August 6,  1957,and they were also eligible under r. 8(i) of the  SecuritiesContracts  (Regulation)	 Rules,	 1957, to be  members  of  arecognised  stock  exchange.  Within the  time	granted	 forapplying  for membership a number 'of active members of	 theIndian	Stock  Exchange Limited applied for  membership	 andwere  admitted as members of the recognised Stock  Exchange.Though	three years had elapsed after this no  member  otherthan   the  petitioner	questioned  the	 validity   of	 thenotification  which  was accepted and the  recognised  StockExchange became established.  The petitioner, however, fileda  petition under Art. 32 Of the Constitution  praying	thatthe Union be directed to withdraw or cancel the notificationdated  August  31,  1957, recognising  the  Stock  Exchange,Bombay, under S. 4 Of the Securities Contracts	(Regulation)Act,  1956.  Subsequently on November 30, 1957, the  CentralGovernment192issued	another	 notification applying s. 13 Of the  Act  toGreater	 Bombay	 with  the  result  that  thereafter   everycontract  in shares between the members of any	unrecognisedstock  exchange	 in   that  city  would	 be  illegal.	 Thecontentions of the petitioner in the petition for the  issueof  a writ of mandamus were that under Art. 19(i)(g) of	 theConstitution he had a fundamental right to carry on businessin  shares  and the two notifications  in  question  imposedunreasonable   restrictions   on   his	 right,	  that	 thenotification  dated August 31, 1957, was void as it was	 notsanctioned  by the provisions Of s. 4 Of the' Act, that	 thecondition  2(i)(a)  of	the  said  notification	 classifyingmembers	 of  the  Indian Stock Exchange	 Limited  as  activemembers	  and	members	 who  were  not	  active   infringedfundamental right granted under Art. 14 Of the	Constitutionand  as	 the  said condition was not  severable	 the  entirenotification was bad.  The respondent besides  controvertingthe   said  contentions	 further  contended  that   as	 thepetitioner had not questioned the validity of the Act itselfthe notification issued thereunder could not be questioned.Held, that the validity of a notification could not be ques-tioned	if  it	was issued under a self	 contained  Act	 andrestated the provisions of the Act the validity of which wasaccepted.   If,	 however, the Act conferred a power  on	 theState	in  general  terms  and	 the   notification   issuedthereunder infringed any of the fundamental rights it  couldbe attacked even though the Act was valid.The  Stock Exchange Rules did not operate as a	bar  againstthe petitioner becoming a member of the Stock Exchange	sub-ject to the rules governing such application.The restrictions and conditions imposed under the  notifica-tion  in  question  were not  unreasonable.   The  conditionrestricting membership to active members only is germane  tothe  recognition of the Stock Exchange and is  therefore,  acondition within the meaning of " any other conditions "  incl. (b) of sub s. (1) Of s. 4 Of the Act.The  classification  between active members and	 others	 wasjustifiable  and the period fixed by the Government  as	 thestandard for ascertaining the active membership was  neitherarbitrary nor unreasonable.There  was a presumption in favour of the State	 that  therewas a reasonable basis for the classification and the burdento prove that it violated the guarantee of equal  protectionlay on the petitioner who impeached it.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Writ Petition No. 136 of 1957.Writ Petition under Art. 32 of the Constitution of India forenforcement of Fundamental Rights.193Purshottam Tricumdas, Mukund R. Mody, Anil B. Divan,  RameshA. Shroff and I. N. Shroff, for the petitioner.C.   K.	 Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, R.  GanapathyIyer and R. H. Dhebar, for respondent.1960.	August 17.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbySUBBA  RAO  J.-This  is	 a petition under  Art.	 32  of	 theConstitution  for the issue of a writ of mandamus or a	writin   the  nature  of  mandamus	or  any	 other	 appropriatedirection, order or writ to direct the respondent, the Unionof  India,  to	withdraw or cancel  the	 notification  datedAugust 31, 1957, recognising " the Stock Exchange, Bombay  "under  s.  4 of the Securities Contracts  (Regulation)	Act,1956 (XLII of 1956), (hereinafter referred to as"the Act ").At the outset it is necessary to notice briefly how a  StockExchange is worked and how it is controlled or regulated  bythe  State.   "	 Stock	Exchange "  means,  "  any  body  ofindividuals,  whether incorporated or not,  constituted	 forthe  purpose of assisting or con. trolling the	business  ofbuying,	 selling or dealing in securities ". The history  ofstock  exchanges  in foreign countries as well as  in  Indiashows  that the development of joint stock enterprise  wouldnever have reached its present stage but for the  facilitieswhich	the   stock  exchanges	provided  for	dealing	  insecurities.   They have a very important function to  fulfilin the country's economy.  Their main function, in the wordsof an eminent writer, is " to liquify capital by enabling  aperson	who  has  invested money in, say,  a  factory  or  arailway,  to convert it into cash by disposing of his  sharein  the	 enterprise  to someone else ".	 Without  the  stockexchange,  capital  would become  immobilized.	 The  properworking of a stock exchange depends upon not only the  moralstature	 of the members but also on their calibre.  It is  atrite  saying that a jobber or dealer is born and not  made.In  the words of the same author, a jobber must be a man  ofgood nerve, cool judgment, and ready to deal25194under  any  ordinary  conditions, and he must be  a  man  offinancial   standing,  considerable  experience,   with	  anunderstanding  of market psychology.  There are three  modesof  dealing in shares and stores, namely, (1) spot  deliverycontract,  i.e.,  a contract which provides for	 the  actualdelivery  of  securities on the payment of a  price  thereofeither on the day of the contract or the next day, excludingperhaps the period taken for the despatch of the  securitiesor  the remittance of money from one place to  another;	 (2)ready  delivery	 contract, which means a  contract  for	 thepurchase or sale of securities for the performance of  whichno   time  is  specified  and  which  is  to  be   performedimmediately  or	 within	 a  reasonable	time;  (3)   forwardcontracts, i.e., contracts whereunder the parties agree	 fortheir  performance at a future date.  If the stock  exchangeis  in	the hands of unscrupulous members,  the	 second	 andthird  categories  of contracts to buy or  sell	 shares	 maydegenerate into highly speculative transactions or, what  isworse,	purely	gambling  ones.	 Where the  parties  do	 notintend while entering into a contract of sale or purchase ofsecurities  that only difference in prices should  be  paid,the  transaction, even though speculative, is valid and	 notvoid, for " there is no law against speculation as there  isagainst	 gambling ". But, if the parties do not intend	thatthere  should  be any delivery of the shares  but  only	 thedifference in prices should be accounted for, the  contract,being a wager, is void.	 More often than not it is difficultfor a court to distinguish one from the other, as a wageringtransaction may be so cleverly camouflaged as to pass off asa speculative transaction.  These mischievous potentialitiesinherent  in the transactions, if left	uncontrolled,  wouldtend to subvert the main object of the institution of  stockexchange  and convert it into a den of gambling which  wouldultimately upset the industrial economy of the country.For  that  reason, in Bombay as early as  1925,	 the  BombaySecurities Contracts Control Act was passed to regulate	 andcontrol contracts for the purchase and sale of securities inthe  City of Bombay and elsewhere in the Bombay	 Presidency.Under s. 6 of that Act,195"  Every  contract for the purchase or sale  of	 securities,other  than a ready delivery contract, entered into after  adate  to  be  notified	in this	 behalf	 by  the  ProvincialGovernment shall be void, unless the same is made subject toand in accordance with the rules duly sanctioned under s.  5and  every  such contract shall be void unless the  same  ismade  between  members or through a member of  a  recognisedstock  exchange; and no claim shall be allowed in any  CivilCourt for the recovery of any commission, brokerage, fee  orreward	in  respect  of any such contract ".  But  this	 Actdefined " ready delivery contract " to mean " a contract forthe purchase or sale of securities for performance of  whichno   time  is  specified  and  which  is  to  be   performedimmediately  or	 within	 a reasonable time ".  It  was	alsostated	 therein  by  way  of  explanation  that  what	 wasreasonable  time was in each particular case a	question  offact.  This Act did not achieve its purpose, for under s.  6thereof	 contracts  entered  into in  contravention  of	 theprovisions  of that section were not made illegal  but	onlyvoid, with the result that even members of a stock  exchangenot  recognised under that Act were able to do	business  inthat line.  What is more, the explanation to the  definitionof  "  ready delivery contract " which is excluded from	 theoperation  of  the Act was so elastic that in  the  name  ofready  delivery contracts unrecognised stock exchanges.	 andindividuals  were  able	 to carry  on  business	 in  forwardcontracts. (-,ambling in shares went on unchecked in  Bombayas elsewhere.  After the Second World War, the post-war boomgave   an   unhealthy	impetus	 to   the   stock   exchangetransactions.	Various expert committees appointed  by	 theGovernment  from  time to time considered  the	question  ofregulation  of	stock  exchanges and  the  latest  of  thosecommittees  was the Gorwalla Committee.	 The report of	thatCommittee  was circulated to the principal stock  exchanges,Chambers of Commerce, and other interested associations	 andindividuals.	After	considering  the  reports   of	 thecommittees  and	 the comments made thereon  by	the  variousbodies, the Government introduced a bill in the	 Parliament,which became law on196September   4,	1956.	The  Act  was  passed	to   preventundesirable  transactions  in securities by  regulating	 thebusiness therein by prohibiting auction and by providing forcertain	 other matters connected therewith.  The Act  mainlyprovides  for  the recognition of stock	 exchanges  and	 forcontrolling the rule-making of the said exchanges.   Section4  of the Act empowers the Central Government  to  recognisestock  exchanges  subject  to two  conditions.	 Section  13enables	 it  to issue a notification that  in  a  particularState or area every contract which is entered into after thedate of the notification otherwise than between members of arecognised  stock exchange in such State or area or  throughor with such member shall be illegal.  Without resorting  tosuch drastic procedure the Government is also given power toprohibit  contracts in certain securities in  certain  areasfrom  doing  business  without obtaining  a  licence.	Spotdelivery  contracts are excluded from the operation  of	 ss.13, 14, 15 and 17 of the Act, unless the Central  Governmentby notification thinks fit to extend the operation of s.  17of  the	 Act  to  such	contracts.   Section  19   prohibitsformation  of  stock exchanges other  than  recognised	onesexcept	with the permission of the Central  Government.	  Itdeclares  all auctions in securities entered into after	 thecommencement of the Act illegal.  It also provides penaltiesfor  the  infringements of the provisions of  the  Act.	  Inshort, the Act confers an effective controlling power on theCentral Government over the stock exchanges.In  exercise  of  the  power  conferred	 upon  the   CentralGovernment to make rules, the Central Government made  rulesdescribed  as the Securities Contracts	(Regulation)  Rules,1957,  providing,  inter  alia, for  the  qualification	 formembership  of	a stock exchange  seeking  recognition,	 theprocedure  for recognition, the manner of keeping  accounts,the  submission	 of  annual  reports,  the  constitution  ofgoverning bodies and for taking disciplinary action  againstany member of such bodies and other similar matters.In Greater Bombay there were two stock exchanges,197one  called the Native Share & Stock  Brokers'	Association,and the other the Indian Stock Exchange Limited.  The formerwas  in	 existence  for	 more than., 80	 years	and  it	 wasregistered  under  the Bombay Securities  Contracts  ControlAct,  1925.   Its rules and bye-laws were  approved  by	 theGovernment  of	Bombay	and it was doing  business  in	bothforward	 as well as ready transactions.	 It has	 a  clearinghouse and was doing extensive business in different kinds ofsecurities.The other, namely, the Indian Stock Exchange Limited, was  acompany	 incorporated under the Indian Companies Act,  1913,as a company limited by guarantee without any share capital.The  said Company had been functioning since 1937,  but	 wasnot registered under the Bombay Securities Contracts ControlAct,  1925.  It was mainly doing business in  Tata  Ordinaryand  Bombay  Dyeing  shares and had  hardly  any  investmentbusiness.  Not being registered under the Bombay  SecuritiesContracts  Control  Act, 1925, it could only deal  in  readydelivery  contracts;  and  as  the  definition	of  "  readydelivery  contract  "  under that Act  was  elastic  and  asforward	 contracts  were not made illegal  thereunder,	thisExchange  was also doing speculative business mainly in	 thesaid two shares.After  the Act came into force, both the  Exchanges  appliedfor  recognition  under	 the  Act.   The  Government,  afterconsidering   the   relative   merits	and   the   relevantcircumstances, issued a notification dated August 31,  1957,recognising the Native Share and Stock Brokers'	 Associationunder the name " The Stock Exchange, Bombay " subject to theconditions mentioned therein.  One of the conditions imposedwas  that the members of the Indian Stock  Exchange  Limitedwould  be  entitled  to apply for membership  of  the  StockExchange,  Bombay, provided they were active members of	 theIndian	Stock  Exchange Limited for  12	 months	 immediatelypreceding August 6, 1957, and they were also eligible  underr.  8(1)  of the Securities  Contracts	(Regulation)  Rules,1957,  to  be members of a recognised stock  exchange.	 Thenotification198further gave some concessions to such active members in	 thematter of payment of the membership fee.  They had to  applyfor  membership	 before	 October 15, 1957,  or	before	suchperiod	as the Board of the recognised Stock Exchange  mightthink  fit to extend.  It appears that within  the  extendedtime a number of active members of the Indian Stock ExchangeLimited	  as  defined  by  the	notification   applied	 formembership  and were admitted as members of  the  recognisedStock  Exchange.   Though  three years have  passed  by,  nomember	other than the petitioner has so far thought fit  toquestion  the  validity of the notification,  that  is,	 thevalidity  of  the  notification has been  accepted  and	 therecognised  Stock  Exchange has become	stabilised  on	thatbasis.	 Subsequent  to	 the  filing  of.  the	petition  onNovember  30,  1957, the Central Government  issued  anothernotification  applying s. 13 of the Act to  Greater  Bombay;with  the  result that thereafter every contract  in  sharesbetween	 the members of any unrecognised stock	exchange  inthat City would be illegal.The  petitioner	 had  become a member of  the  Indian  StockExchange  Limited on February 27, 1956, but he had not	beentransacting  any  business on the floor of  the	 said  StockExchange  either  on his own account or on  account  of	 hisclients.  He avers in the affidavit filed in support of	 thepetition that he has been doing considerable business on hisown  account  or  on account of his  clients  through  othermembers	 of  the  Stock	 Exchange and  that  he	 intends  tocommence business directly in ready delivery contracts.	  Asthe impugned notifications affect his right to do  business,he  seeks  for	the  issue of a writ  of  mandamus  for	 theaforesaid reliefs.Shri   Purshottam   Trikumdas,	learned	 counsel   for	 thepetitioner, raised before us the following contentions:	 (1)under Art. 19(1)(g) of the Constitution the petitioner has afundamental right to carry on the business in shares and thenotification  dated  August  31, 1957,	and  the  subsequentnotification  dated November 30, 1957, imposed	unreasonablerestrictions  on his said right; (2) the notification  datedAugust 31,1991957,  is  void	 inasmuch as it is  not	 sanctioned  by	 theprovisions of s. 4 of the Act; and (3) the condition 2(i)(a)of the said notification classifying members of A the IndianStock  Exchange	 Limited as active members and	members	 whowere not active infringes the fundamental right enshrined inArt.  14 of the Constitution and that as the said  conditionis not severable the entire notification is bad.Learned	 Solicitor-General in addition to controverting	 thesaid contentions pressed on us to hold that as the vires  ofthe   Act  was	not  questioned,  the  notification   issuedthereunder could not be questioned by the petitioner on	 theground	that  it  contravened  one  or	other  of  the	saidfundamental rights.It  would be convenient to take first the contention of	 thelearned	 Solicitor-General  as	it is in  the  nature  of  apreliminary point.  He says that as the validity of the	 Actwas  not questioned the notification issued in the  exerciseof the power conferred thereunder cannot also be questioned.There  is a fallacy underlying this contention.	 Under	Art.13(2) of the Constitution, the State shall not make any	 lawwhich  takes away or abridges the rights conferred  by	PartIII  thereof;  and  " law " is defined under  Art.  3(a)  toinclude	 a  notification.   Therefore,	the  validity  of  anotification  issued by the State, it being law, is as	muchvulnerable to attack as that of the Act itself on the groundthat it infringes any of the fundamental rights.  If an	 Actis  a self-contained one and the notification issued  there-under only restates the provisions of the Act, the  validityof  the notification cannot obviously be questioned  as	 thevalidity  of  its contents were accepted.  But	if  the	 Actconfers	 a  power  on the State in  general  terms  and	 thenotification issued thereunder infringes one or other of thefundamental  rights, the validity of the Act cannot  equallyobviously  prevent  an attack on the notification.   In	 theformer case the notification only reflects the provisions ofa valid Act and in the latter it is the notification and notthe  Act  that infringes the fundamental  rights.   Take  anexample	 of an Act imposing restrictions on the	 freedom  ofspeech.	  The Act authorizes the State to impose  conditionson200the said freedom in the interests of security of State.	 TheAct  is	 constitutionally  valid.  But,	 if  a	notificationissued	under  that Act	 imposes  unreasonable	restrictionsinfringing the said rights, it is liable to be challenged onthe  ground of unconstitutionality.  So too, in the  instantcase  s.  4 of the Act empowers the  Central  Government  toissue a notification recognising a stock exchange subject tocertain conditions expressed in general terms.	The  generalterms  can  comprehend	both  reasonable  and	unreasonablerestrictions.	If  the	 notification  imposes	unreasonablerestrictions-if	 the contention of the learned	counsel	 forthe  petitioner be accepted, the restrictions imposed  wouldcertainly be unreasonable-it is liable to be set aside.	  Wecannot, therefore, accept this contention.Re.  (1): Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution	states	thatevery citizen shall have the right to carry on any business;but the State in empowered under el. (6) of the said Articleto  make  any law imposing in the interest  of	the  generalpublic	reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the	saidright.	 Briefly stated, the argument is that  the  combinedeffect	of the two notifications is that the  petitioner  isdriven out of his business of stock exchange in as much	 as,it  is said, they confer a monopoly on the  Stock  Exchange,Bombay, and the rules of the said Stock Exchange exclude anyoutsider  from	becoming  its  member  without	obtaining  anomination  and	 that too only in the place of	an  existingmember.	  To put it differently, the argument proceeds	thatunder the rules of the Stock Exchange, Bombay, membership isnot  thrown  open  to  the public.  This  leads	 us  to	 theconsideration  of  the	relevant  provisions  of  the  StockExchange Rules, Bye-laws and Regulations, 1957.	 Under r.  3the membership of the Exchange shall consist of such  numberof members as the Exchange in general meeting may from	timeto time determine.  It is common case that the membership ofthe  Exchange is not limited.  Under the heading "  Electionof  New	 Members ", the Rules prescribe	 the  conditions  ofeligibility for election as a member of the Exchange.  TheseRules adopt the provisions of r. 8 of the Securities201Contracts  (Regulation)	 Rules,	 1957.	 The  Rules  do	 notcontain any limitation on the eligibility of a person to  beelected	 as  a	member such as that the	 person,  should  benominated  in  the manner provided by the Rules or  that  heshould	come  only in the vacancy caused by  another  memberceasing	 to be one in one of the ways mentioned	 thereunder.The words " no person " in r. 17 are comprehensive enough totake  in  any outsider seeking for election  as	 a,  member.Rule  22  provides for an application for admission  in	 theform prescribed in Appendix A to the Rules.  This rule	alsodoes   not  impose  any	 such  limitation.   The   admissionapplication form in Appendix A is also general in terms	 andenables any person of India to apply for membership providedhe  agrees to abide by the conditions imposed  therein.	  Inthe  form  also	 there is no such  limitation.	 But  it  iscontended  that a fair reading of the provisions of  rr.  20and  21	 makes it clear that a candidate  for  admission  isconfined  only	to  two categories, viz.,  (1)	a  candidatenominated  by  a  member  or a	legal  representative  of  adeceased member seeking admission to membership in the placeof' the deceased; and (2) a person recommended for admissionto membership in the place of a member who has forfeited hisright  to membership.  A careful scrutiny of the Rules	doesnot  bear out the contention; nor do they enable us  to	 cutdown the wide amplitude of rr. 17 to 22.  Rule 10 says:	      "	 When a right of membership is forfeited  to	      or vests in the Exchange under any Rule,	Bye-	      law,  or	Regulation of the Exchange  for	 the	      time being in force it shall belong absolutely	      to the Exchange free of all rights, claims  or	      interest of such member or any person claiming	      through  such  member and the  Governing	Body	      shall  be entitled to deal with or dispose  of	      such right of membership as it may think fit."	      Rule 54 is to the following effect:" A member's right of membership shall lapse to and vest  inthe Exchange immediately be is declared a defaulter."Rule 11 is as follows..    26202	      "(a)  A member of not less than  seven  years'	      standing who desires to resign may nominate  a	      person   eligible	  under	 these	 Rules	 for	      admission	 to membership of the Exchange as  a	      candidate for admission in his place(b)  The legal representatives of a deceased member  or	 hisheirs or the persons mentioned in Appendix C to these  Rulesmay  with the sanction of the Governing Board  nominate	 anyperson	 eligible  under  these	 Rules	for   admission	  tomembership  of the Exchange as a candidate for admission  inthe  place  of	the deceased member.   In  considering	suchnomination  the	 Governing Board shall be guided so  far  aspracticable  by	 the instructions set out in Appendix  C  tothese Rules."Appendix  B gives the nomination forms Nos.  1 and 2  to  befilled	by a member or a legal representative, as  the	casemay be, under r. 11 (a) and (b).  Now it would be convenientto read rr. 20 and 21.	They areas follows:Rule  20:  " A candidate for admission except'	a  candidateapplying  for  a  membership vesting in	 the  Exchange	mustobtain a nomination in the manner provided in these Rules."Rule 21: " A candidate for admission must be recommended  bytwo members none of whom should be a member of the GoverningBoard.	 The recommenders must have such personal  knowledgeof  the candidate and of his past and present  circumstancesas shall satisfy the Governing Board."The argument is that under r. 20 a candidate for ad. missionfalls under two categories, namely, (1) a candidate who mustobtain	a  nomination in the manner provided in	 the  Rules,i.e., r. 11 (a) and (b); and (2) a candidate applying for  amembership  vesting in the Exchange; and,  therefore,  thesetwo categories exhaust the candidates for admission and thatwhen under r. 21 the same words, " a candidate for admission",  are used they must carry the same meaning as in  r.	 20,that  is, they must be confined only to the  two  categoriescomprehended  by  r.  20.   This  argument  appears  to	  beplausible and even incontrovertible, if203rr.  20 and 21 are taken out of their setting and  construedindependently  of other rules.	But in the setting in  whichthey appear they can bear only one meaning, namely, that  r.20  provides for nomination only in the case of a  candidatefor  admission	who  requires a	 nomination  in	 the  mannerprovided  by  the  rule	 and r. 21  provides,  for  all	 thecandidates for admission, that they should be recommended bytwo  members who have personal knowledge of the	 candidates.To  put	 it in other words, under the Rules  candidates	 foradmission  fall	 under three groups,  viz.,  (1)  candidatesfalling	 under r. 11, (a) and (b); (2)	candidates  applyingfor  membership	 vesting  in the  Exchange;  and  (3)  othercandidates.  All the three categories of candidates must  berecommended by two members.  But the candidates belonging tothe  first  category shall in addition be nominated  in	 themanner provided by the Rules.  We, therefore, hold that	 theStock  Exchange	 Rules do not operate as a bar	against	 thepetitioner  becoming a member of the Stock Exchange  subjectto the rules governing such application.  The petitioner hasthe  right  to	do  business in	 shares:  in  spite  of	 thenotifications  he  can still do business  in  spot  deliverycontracts.   He	 can apply to become a member of  the  StockExchange  subject to the conditions laid down by the  Rules.The Act the validity of which he has not chosen to question,enables the State to give or refuse recognition to any StockExchange and it has chosen to give recognition to the  StockExchange, Bombay, subject to the conditions prescribed.	 Therestrictions,  in  our view, are  not  unreasonable,  havingregard to the importance of the business of a stock exchangein  the country's national economy and having regard to	 themagnitude  of  the  mischief sought to be  remedied  in	 theinterest  of the general public.  At another place  we	havealready	 dealt	with  the  necessity  for  stringent   rulesgoverning this type of business For the reasons Mentioned wereject the first contention.Re.  (2):  The second contention also has  no  merits.	 Thecriticism  is  that  condition	2(i)  (a)  annexed  to	 thenotification cannot be supported on the basis of any204of the provisions of s. 4 of the Act.  Condition 2 (i) readsas follows:   "  The  Members  of the Indian  Stock  Exchange  Limited,Bombay,	 will  be entitled to apply for	 Membership  of	 theStock Exchange, Bombay, provided they fulfil or comply	withthe following terms and conditions:-   (a)	they  have been active members of the  Indian  StockExchange  Limited, for twelve months  immediately  precedingthe 6th August, 1957.Explanation:" Active Members " for purpose of this conditionmeans  members	who  have  themselves  transacted   businessregularly on the floor of the Indian Stock Exchange  Limitedeither on their own account or on account of their clients.To appreciate the argument it is also necessary to read	 thematerial provisions of s. 4 of the Act.Section	 4:  " (1) If the Central Government  is  satisfied,after making such inquiry as may be necessary in this behalfand after obtaining such further information, if any, as  itmay require,-(a) that the rules and bye-laws of a stock exchange applyingfor  registration are in conformity with such conditions  asmay be prescribed with a view to ensure fair dealing and  toprotect investors;(b)  that the stock exchange is willing to comply  with	 anyother  conditions (including conditions as to the number  ofmembers)  which	 the Central Government	 after	consultationwith  the  governing body of the stock exchange	 and  havingregard	to  the area served by the stock  exchange  and	 itsstanding and the nature of the securities dealt with by	 it,may  impose for the purpose of carrying, out the objects  ofthis Act; and(c)  that it would be in the interest of the trade and	alsoin  the	 public interest to grant recognition to  the  stockexchange;It  may grant recognition to the stock exchange	 subject  tothe conditions imposed upon it as aforesaid and in such formas may be prescribed.(2)  The conditions which the Central Government205may  prescribe under clause (a) of sub-section (1)  for	 thegrant  of  recognition to the stock exchanges  may  include,among other matters, conditions relating. to,--(i) the qualifications for membership of stock exchanges;(ii) the manner in which contracts shall be entered into andenforced as between members;(iii)  the representation of the Central Government on	eachof  the	 stock	exchanges  by such  number  of	persons	 notexceeding  three as the Central Government may	nominate  inthis behalf; and(iv) the maintenance of accounts of members and their  auditby chartered accountants whenever such audit is required  bythe Central Government.	 "The  argument proceeds that condition 2(i)(a)  enables	onlythe  active members of the Indian Stock Exchange Limited  toapply for membership of the Stock Exchange, Bombay and	thatsuch  a	 condition can be imposed only if it  amounts  to  aqualification of membership within the meaning of sub-s. (2)of  s.	4, as the other conditions in that  sub-section	 areobviously inapplicable.	 It is further pointed out that sub-s.  (2) refers back to sub-s. (i)(a) and under	that  clausethe  condition imposed must only be that prescribed  by	 theRules  made under the Act and that the condition imposed  bythe notification is not a condition so prescribed.  There isforce  in  this	 argument;  but,  the  acceptance  of	thiscontention does not advance the case of the petitioner, for,if  the condition is not covered by cl. (a) of s.  4(1),  itfalls under cl. (b) thereof.  Under that clause, the CentralGovernment may grant recognition to a stock exchange if	 thesaid  stock exchange is willing to comply with "  any  otherconditions ".  It is said that the other conditions in s. 4(1) (b)	  must	only  be  conditions relating  to  the	areaserved	  by the stock exchange, its standing and the natureof  the securities dealt with by it.  This is not  what	 cl.(b)  of	 s. 4(1) says.	The conditions under cl. (b)  of  s.4(1)  no  doubt	 shall	be such as may	be  imposed  by	 theGovernment,   having   regard	to   the   aforesaid   threeconsiderations, but they need not necessarily be206confined  only to the said considerations.   The  Governmentmay   impose  any  conditions,	no  doubt  germane  to	 therecognition of a stock exchange, after consultation with itsgoverning   board,   and   having   regard   to	  the	saidconsiderations.	  It cannot be said that  condition  2(i)(a)imposed on the Stock Exchange is not a condition germane  toits  recognition.   The record discloses  that	the  CentralGovernment in recognising the Stock Exchange sought to avoidthe consequential hardship on the members of the rival stockexchange  and  therefore imposed the said condition  on	 theStock Exchange, Bombay, as a condition for its	recognition.The  condition	is  germane  to	 recognition  of  the  StockExchange  and is, therefore, a condition within the  meaningof " any other conditions " in cl. (b) of sub-s. (1) of s. 4of the Act.Re.  (3):  Learned  counsel for the  petitioner	 advanced  aforcible  argument  questioning the  validity  of  condition2(i)(a) of the notification on the ground that it  infringedArt. 14 of the Constitution.  Elaborating his argument,	 thelearned	 counsel stated that the said  condition  classifiedmembers	 of  the  Indian Stock	Exchange  Limited  into	 twogroups, one active members and the other who were not activemembers, and that that classification was arbitrary and	 hadno  reasonable relation to the object sought to be  achievedby  the	 notification.	 He further  pointed  out  that	 thedefining  of  active  members as those	who  had  themselvestransacted  business  regularly on the floor of	 the  IndianStock  Exchange	 Limited either on their own account  or  onaccount of their clients for 12 months immediately precedingAugust	6, 1957, was not only arbitrary and vague but  also,if  analysed,  would lead to anomalies	destructive  of	 anystandard of reasonableness.  It is alleged in the  affidavitfiled  by  the	petitioner that from the  inception  of	 theIndian Stock Exchange Limited, 199 members of the said StockExchange  were	actually trading on the floor  of  the	saidExchange from time to time but for some reason or the  otherwere not trading during the period of 12 months	 immediatelypreceding August 6, 1957; that there were 34 members of	 thesaid Stock Exchange who were regularly207transacting business on the floor of the said Stock Exchangeprior  to August 6, 1956, and for some time after August  6,1956,  but  not during the entire period of 12	months	fromAugust	6,  1956 to August 6, 1957; and that there  were  24members	 of the said Stock Exchange who started	 transactingbusiness  regularly on the floor of the said Stock  Exchangesome  time  after August 6, 1956 and continued	to  transactbusiness right upto and after August 6, 1957.  It was  askedwhat  was the reasonable basis for confining the  definitionof  active  members to those who were carrying	on  businessduring the period of 12 months from August 6, 1956 to August6, 1957, while excluding the aforesaid three categories	 whowere  equally  active members and indeed  more	active	thanthose included in the definition.  It was further asked whatwas  the  justification for excluding a member	who  was  anactive	member	for  years  before  the	 crucial  year	 andirregularly  conducted	business on the floor of  the  StockExchange  during the crucial year while including  a  memberwho  might  have  been a newcomer or  who  might  have	beenearlier a nominal member but began to do business  regularlyonly during the said year.  Emphasis was also laid upon	 thealleged elastic and indefinite content of the word " regular" and it was suggested that the said word could not possiblyafford	a  precise  standard.  These are  all  weighty	con-siderations and we must confess that there is force in them.But  there  is the other side of the picture.  It  is  well-settled that a classification must have reasonable  relationto  the	 object	 sought to be  achieved.   The	standard  ofreasonableness is inextricably conditioned by the extent andnature of the evil and the urgency for eradicating the same.The object of the notification is twofold.  The main  objectis  to carry out the purpose of the Act, namely, to  preventundesirable  transactions  in securities by  regulating	 thebusiness  in them.  The subsidiary object is to assuage	 thehardship  that recognition of only one stock exchange  wouldcause  to the members of the other association.	 To  achievethis  twin object the classification is made between  activemembers and inactive members.  While208on the one hand the Government found it necessary to excludethe  nominal members who would add their deadweight  to	 therecognised  association	 and bring down its  efficiency	 andaffect	its  disciplined conduct of business, on  the  otherhand  it  gave	opportunity to	persons	 who  were  activelyinterested in the business to become regular members of	 theStock  Exchange, Bombay.  There is every  justification	 forexcluding members who had not been taking active interest inthe  business,	for,  as we have already  pointed  out,	 theefficient carrying out of the business of the Stock Exchangedepends	 upon the moral stature, high caliber,	and  genuineand  active  interest evinced by the  members.	 The  activemembers	 justified themselves to the preferential  treatmentby  their  sustained interest in the  business	whereas	 themembers	  who  were  not  active  showed   their   continuedindifference to that line of business.	But the crux of	 thequestion  is,  what is the justification for  fixing  twelvemonths immediately preceding August 6, 1957, as the standardfor  active membership ? The Under Secretary to the  Govern-ment  of  India,  Ministry of Finance,	filed  an  affidavitdescribing the circumstances whereunder this  classificationwas  made.   It discloses that the notification	 was  issuedafter taking into consideration the representations made  onbehalf	of  both  the Stock Exchanges  and  also  the  factspertaining to the course of business conducted by the IndianStock  Exchange	 Limited.  It also  gives  the	vicissitudesthrough	 which the said Stock Exchange passed from the	dateof  its	 formation  and the circumstances  under  which	 themembership  of that Exchange was divided into  full  membersand associate members.	It points out that the Indian  StockExchange  Limited  became  moribund in a few  years  and  torevive	its  activities it allowed the members of  the	EastIndia Chamber of Commerce, by relaxing its entrance fee	 andsecurity  deposit requirements in 1950-51 and created a	 newclass of Associate Members, which facilitated the enrollmentof  hundreds  of Associate Members on payment of  a  nominalentrance fee of Rs. 100.  The Government on a  considerationof the necessary data and presumably209having regard to the record of the activities of the variousmembers fixed the activities in the crucial year 1956-57  asthe standard of activity for membership.There is a presumption in favour of the State that there  isa reasonable basis for the classification.  Except the	mereallegations  in	 the affidavit which are not  admitted,	 thepetitioner  has	 not  placed  before  us  any  materials  toascertain  that any other members, who were regularly  doingbusiness  on the floor of the Indian Stock Exchange  Limitedbefore	August 6,1956, temporarily suspended their  businessfor one reason or other over which they had no control.	  Nostatement  from the accounts has been produced to enable  usto evaluate the activities of the members before the crucialdate  so as to enable us to form a view that  really  activemembers were excluded by the fixing of this period.  Nor arewe  in	a  position to verify whether  any  of	the  membersexcluded were regularly doing business during a part of	 theyear  in  continuation	of their  business  in	the  earlierperiod.	  We  cannot also say that the	words  "carrying  onbusiness  regularly " are so vague that the parties did	 notunderstand  their connotation, for it is admitted that	someof  the regular members applied for membership of the  StockExchange,  Bombay and most of them were admitted.  There  isalso the fact that though three years have elapsed since thedate of the notification no other member of the Indian StockExchange Limited thought fit to question the notification onthe  ground that the period fixed was unreasonable and	thatreally	active members were excluded from membership of	 theStock  Exchange,  Bombay.   So	far  as	 the  petitioner  isconcerned,  he was admittedly not an active  member,  thoughlie  now pretends that he was doing business  through  othermembers.   There  is also no material placed  before  us  tosupport the said assertion.  If the classification,  betweenactive	members and others who were not,  is  justifiable-wehold  it is-the Government has to draw a line somewhere	 andto fix a period of activity reasonable in its opinion as a   27210standard  to  satisfy  the test of " active  member  ".	 Theburden	which  lies upon the petitioner	 who  impeaches	 thevalidity of the classification to show that it violates	 theguarantee  of equal protection has not been discharged.	  Onthe material placed before us we cannot say that the  periodfixed by the Government as the standard for ascertaining theactive	membership  is arbitrary or unreasonable.   We	mustmake it clear that this finding must be confined only to thevalidity of the impugned notification dated August 31, 1956.The petition accordingly fails and is dismissed with costs.     Petition dismissed.