PETITIONER:VADILAL PANCHAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:DATTATRAYA DULAJI GHADIGAONKER	AND ANOTHER.DATE OF JUDGMENT:06/05/1960BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.KAPUR, J.L.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1113 CITATOR INFO : R	    1962 SC 876	 (24,48,59) RF	    1963 SC1430	 (7,11) R	    1972 SC2639	 (22) R	    1976 SC1947	 (3) F	    1977 SC1489	 (10) E	    1980 SC 962	 (7) R	    1983 SC 595	 (8) F	    1992 SC1894	 (11)ACT:Criminal     Procedure--Complaint--Magistrate	   referringcomplaint     to     Police	for	report--Plea	  ofself-defence--Magistrate dismissing complaint upholding suchPlea   on  the	basis  of  Police   report--Legality--IndianEvidence  Act,	1872 (I of 1872), S. 105--Code	of  CriminalProcedure, 1898 (Act 5 of 1898), SS. 200, 202, 203.HEADNOTE:On June 3, 1956, riots broke out after a public meeting heldin  Bombay  in connection with the  re-organisation  of	 theState of Bombay was dispersed on account of the disturbancescreated	 therein.   The	 car  in  which	 the  appellant	 wastravelling  was stopped by the crowd and some of  those	 whosurrounded  the car caught hold of him by his neck and	hairand  wanted to drag him out of the car.	 The appellant	thenopened fire with his revolver.	The respondent's brother, S,who  was  hit  on the chest by one of the  shots  fired	 wasremoved	 to the hospital but died before medical  assistancecould  be given.  The police surgeon who made  a  postmortemexamination  expressed the opinion that the shot  must	havebeen  fired  from a distance of 2 to 18	 inches	 only.	 TheCoroner's  jury returned a verdict that S died of the  woundcaused	by  a  bullet fired by the appellant  "	 under	suchcircumstances  as  would  render the firing  to	 be  in	 theexercise  of  the  right  of private  defence  and  as	suchjustified."The respondent filed a complaint in the court of the  Presi-dency Magistrate, Bombay, on the allegation that his brotherdied as a result of the firing resorted to by the  appellantwho thereby committed an offence punishable under s. 302  ofthe  Indian  Penal  Code and prayed that  process  might  beissued	against him.  The Magistrate referred the  complaintto  the	 police for enquiry and report under s. 202  of	 theCode of Criminal Procedure and after considering the  reportsaid:  " From the statements recorded by the Police in	thiscase  and from the surrounding circumstances of the case,  Ihave come to the definite conclusion that the report of	 thePolice	stating	 that the shot was fired by the	 accused  inself-defence  is  true......  The statement  of	 the  policesurgeon	 conclusively supports the conclusion...... The	 eyewitnesses  brought  by	the  complainant  are  not  crediblewitnesses.   It will be harassment to the accused and  wasteof public time if any process is issued in this case ".	 TheMagistrate,  accordingly, dismissed the complaint  under  s.203 of the Code of Criminal2Procedure.  The High Court, in revision, set aside the orderof  dismissal and directed the Magistrate to  issue  processagainst	 the appellant and deal with the case in  accordancewith  law, on the grounds that this was not a case in  whichit  was proper for the Magistrate to dismiss  the  complaintunder  S. 203 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, that  proofof  the plea of self-defence could not be held to have	beenestablished  from  the mere report of the police,  and	thatthere  was  nothing  in	 s. 202 or S. 203  of  the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure which abrogated the rule as to the	pre-sumption laid down in s. 105 of the Indian Evidence Act.Held,  that under s. 203 of the Code of	 Criminal  Procedurethe judgment which the Magistrate has to form must be  basedon  the statements of the complainant and his witnesses	 andthe result of the investigation or inquiry, and in  arrivingat  his	 judgment he is not fettered in any  way  except  byjudicial   considerations   ;  provided	  that	 there	 aresatisfactory and reliable materials on which he can base hisjudgment  as  to  whether there	 is  sufficient	 ground	 forproceeding   on	 the  complaint	 or  not,  if  he  has	 notmisdirected  himself as to the scope of an enquiry under  s.202  and  has applied his mind judicially to  the  materialsbefore him, it would be erroneous in law to hold that a pleabased  on  an  exception can never be  accepted	 by  him  inarriving at his judgment.Held,  further, that on the facts of the present  case,	 theorder of the Magistrate was correct and that the judgment ofthe High Court setting aside that order on an erroneous viewof  the	 scope of S. 203 of the Code of	 Criminal  Proceduremust be set aside.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 117  of1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedSeptember  13,	1957, of the Bombay High Court	in  CriminalPetition  Application  No. 834 of 1957, arising out  of	 thejudgment  and order dated April 30, 1957, of the  PresidencyMagistrate,  IV Class, Girgaon, Bombay, in Case No. 6/1 &  Rof 1956.H.   M.	 Choksi,  Rajni	 Patel, B. K. B.  Naidu	 and  I.  N.Shroff, for the appellant.Janardan Sharma, for respondent No. 1.Purshottam Trikamdas, H. R. Khanna, D. Gupta and R.    H.Dhebar, for respondent No. 2.1960, May 6. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by3S.   K.	 DAS,  J.-This	is an unfortunate case	in  which  acomplaint  filed in the Court of the Presidency	 Magistrate,Bombay,	 on  October  31, 1956,	 by  one  Dattatraya  DulajiGhadigaonkar, respondent herein, has to be finally  disposedof in the year 1960 in circumstances which we shall state atonce.  On June 3, 1956, in the evening, a public meeting washeld  at a place called Chowpatty in Bombay which was to  beaddressed  by the Prime Minister of India.  The meeting	 wascalled	in connexion with an agitation which was then  goingon for the reorganisation of the State of Bombay.  There wasconsiderable disturbance at the meeting as a result  whereofit had to be dispersed, and large crowds of people began  towander	 about	in  various  localities	  around   Chowpattyincluding  an area round Charni Road Station.  The  case  ofthe  complaining  respondent was that at about 8 p.  m.	 hisyounger	 brother  Sitaram was crossing Queen's Road  Dear  abuilding  called  Laud Mansion.	 At that time  there  was  alarge  crowd  on  the road and members of  that	 crowd	werestopping vehicles passing by that road.	 One taxi cab  whichhad come from the direction of the Opera House and was goingtowards	 Churchgate was already stopped.  Sitaram  was	thenaccompanied  by	 Sashikant Kamtekar and	 Nand  Kumar  Vagal.When  these  three  had crossed the  road,  they  heard	 thereports	 of  revolver shots and on looking back	 they  foundthat a person called Bhayya was injured by one of the  shotsand fell down on the footpath.	Sitaram and his friends wentto help Bhayya; at this stage, another shot was fired by oneof  the occupants of a blue car which was near the taxi	 cabreferred to earlier.  Sitaram was hit on his chest, and	 thebullet	having	entered the chest cavity injured  the  rightventricle  of the heart.  Sitaram was removed to the  G.  T.Hospital but died before medical assistance could be  given.Dr.  H.	 S.  Metha, Police Surgeon, who	 made  a  postmortemexamination  of the dead body, opined that Sitaram  died  ofshock  and hemorrhage as a result of the gun shot  wound  hehad  received.	 The doctor further said that  the  charringround the wound indicated that the shot had been fired	froma distance of 2 to 18 inches only.4The  case  of  the  respondent	was  that  Vadilal  Panchal,appellant before us, fired the shot from the blue car.	 Theoccupants  of  the car were K. K. Shah,	 advocate,  his	 sonVinay,	and  one Ratilal Sanghvi on the back seat,  and	 theappellant  and chauffeur Mohiddin on the front seat.  K.  K.Shah   was  mentioned  in  the	complaint  as  one  of	 thecomplainant's  witnesses.   He was examined  and  said	thatafter  the  meeting  was over, he and  his  companions	werereturning in his car to his house.  Because of the  trouble,the  car  travelled by a longer route and  when	 it  reachedQueen's Road, there were large crowds on that road who	werepelting	 stones. shouting slogans and committing other	actsof  violence; a public bus was burnt, and a taxi  cab  whichwas proceeding ahead of K. K. Shah's car was stopped.	Somethree  or  four hundred people surrounded  his	car,  peltedstones and shouted " maro " "maro".  Some of them  attemptedto drag out Ratilal Sanghvi who occupied a corner seat; somecaught hold of the appellant by his neck and hair and wantedto drag him out of the car.  The appellant then opened	firewith his revolver.  The rioters then held back, and the	 waywas clear for the car to pass.	The car then drove away	 andafter some time K. K. Shah and the appellant went to GamdeviPolice	Station where the latter made a report of  what	 hadhappened.  The appellant was sent to Nair Hospital where  hewas medically treated and allowed to go.The  Coroner  of Bombay held an inquest into  the  death  ofSitaram at which K. K. Shah, Sashikant Kamtekar and  severalother witnesses were examined.	The Coroner's Jury  returneda verdict that Sitaram died of the gunshot wound caused by abullet fired by the appellant " under such circumstances  aswould  render the firing to be in exercise of the  right  ofprivate	 defence and as such justified ". This	verdict	 wasreturned on October 16, 1956.  Sometime earlier, on July  3,1956, to be precise, the complaining respondent had made  anenquiry	 through  his  advocate	 from  the  Commissioner  ofPolice,	 Bombay,  as  to  whether  the	appellant  had	beenarrested: the reply received was that the enquiries made  bythe police did not5reveal	any offence having been committed by  the  appellantand the police proposed to take no action.On  October  31, 1956, the respondent filed  his  complaint.The  learned Presidency Magistrate to whom,,  the  complaintwas made referred it to the Superintendent of Police, C.  1.D.,  for enquiry and report.  Presumably, he acted under  s.202  of	 the Code of Criminal Procedure.   On  November	 15,1956,  the Superintendent of Police submitted the report  ofhis Inspector in which it was stated: "From	the exhaustive enquiries made immediately after	 theincident  it  was disclosed that Shri  Vadilal	Panchal	 wasjustified  in  resorting  to firearms  in  self	 defence  ofhimself and the other occupants of the motor car ".On  January  17,  1957,	 the  learned  Magistrate  gave	 therespondent  another  opportunity to  examine  his  witnessesbefore	the  enquiring	officer,  because  by  reason  of  arevision application made to the High Court earlier  againstthe order referring the case to the police for enquiry,	 therespondent   did  not  produce	his  witnesses	before	 theenquiring officer.  The enquiring officer then examined	 allthe  witnesses and submitted his report on March  12,  1957.This time also the enquiring officer said :" From their statements and other evidence on record, it  isclear that Shri Wadilal Panchal opened fire in the  exerciseof his, right of private defence, which verdict the  learnedCoroner's  Jury also brought after a protracted	 hearing  ofthe Inquest Proceedings.  Copies of all statements  recordedby me, are attached for reference ".On  April  30,	1957,  the  learned  Presidency	  Magistrateconsidered  the	 report of the enquiring  officer  in  greatdetail with reference to the statements of all the witnessesand said:"  The Police have recorded in detail the statements of	 allwitnesses produced by the complainant as well as of all	 theoccupants  of  the car.	 There is,  therefore,	material  onrecord	showing	 fully	whether	 the  circumstances  existedmaking	out  the right of private defence available  to	 theaccused.  The fact6whether	 the case falls within one of exceptions or not	 canbe established on the evidence of the witnesses produced  bythe prosecution itself though of course the  burden of prooflies  on the accused.  From the statements, recorded by	 thePolice	in this case and from the surrounding  circumstancesof the case, I have come to the definite conclusion that thereport of the police stating that the shot was fired by	 theaccused	 in  self-defence  is true.  As I  have	 stated	 thestatement  of the police surgeon conclusively  supports	 theconclusion.   I have come to the conclusion that the  state-ments  of the four eye witnesses brought by the	 complainantare false.  These eye witnesses are not credible  witnesses.It  will  be harassment to the accused and waste  of  publictime if any process is issued in this case ".Accordingly, he dismissed the complaint under s.  203,	Codeof Criminal Procedure.Against	 this order of dismissal the  respondent-complainantmoved the High Court.  The High Court set aside the order ofdismissal and directed the learned Presidency Magistrate  toissue  process against the appellant and deal with the	casein  accordance	with law, on a ground which the	 High  Courtexpressed in the following words:"  Now,	 in  the case before us, causing  of  the  death  ofSitaram	  being	 indisputable,	if  it	was  found  as	 thepetitioner  alleges that it was the shot fired by  the	res-pondent that caused the death of Sitaram, the accused ,wouldhave to establish the necessary ingredients of the right  ofprivate	 defence as laid down in section 96 and	 onwards  ofthe  Penal  Code.   We do not find anything in	any  of	 thesections  in Chapter XVI to show that such an exception	 canbe  held  to  be established from the  mere  report  of	 thepolice.	 That, in our view, is contrary to the provisions ofs.  105	 of  the Indian Evidence  Act  which  are  mandatoryprovisions.   There  is nothing in s. 202 or s. 203  of	 theCriminal  Procedure Code which abrogates the rule as to	 thepresumption laid down in s. 105 of the Evidence Act and	 themode of proof of exception laid down in imperative  languagein that section.7In  these  circumstances and for the reasons  aforesaid,  wefind that this was not a case in which it was proper for thelearned	 Magistrate to dismiss the complaint under  s.	203,there being no evidence before the learned Magistrate as andby  way of proof to establish the exception of the right  ofprivate defence pleaded by the respondentThe  appellant	then moved this Court and  obtained  specialleave  to  appeal  from the order of the  High	Court  datedSeptember 13,1957.The short question before us is-was the High Court right  inits view that when a Magistrate directs an enquiry under  s.202  of the Code of Criminal Procedure for ascertaining	 thetruth or falsehood of a complaint and receives a report fromthe enquiring officer supporting a plea of self-defence madeby  the person complained against, it is not open to him  tohold that the plea is correct on the basis of the report andthe  statements	 of  witnesses	recorded  by  the  enquiringofficer ? Must he, as a matter of law, issue process in sucha case and leave the person complained against to  establishhis  plea of self-defence at the trial ? It may	 be  pointedout here that the High Court itself recognised that it wouldnot  be correct to lay down a proposition in absolute  termsthat  whenever a defence under any of the exceptions in	 theIndian	Penal  Code  is pleaded	 by  the  person  complainedagainst, the Magistrate would not be justified in dismissingthe complaint and must issue process.  Said the High  Court:"  As  we have already observed, if there  is  a  complaint,which  itself discloses a complete defence under any of	 theexceptions,  it might be a case where a Magistrate would  bejustified in dismissing such a complaint finding that  therewas no sufficient ground to proceed with the case."We  are	 of  the view that the High Court was  in  error  inholding	 in  this case that as a matter of law, it  was	 notopen  to  the learned Presidency Magistrate to come  to	 theconclusion  that on the materials before him no offence	 hadbeen  made  out	 and  there was	 no  sufficient	 ground	 forproceeding further on the complaint.8The  relevant sections bearing on the question are ss.	200,202 and 203."  S. 200.  A Magistrate taking cognizance of an Offence  oncomplaint  shall  at once examine the  complainant  and	 thewitnesses  present, if any, upon oath, and the substance  ofthe  examination  shall be reduced to writing and  shall  besigned by the complainant and the witnesses, and also by theMagistrate:	      Provided as follows:-	      (a) ...........................	      (aa) ............................(b)  where  the Magistrate is a Presidency Magistrate,	suchexamination may be on oath or not as the Magistrate in	eachcase thinks fit, and where the complaint is made in  writingneed  not be reduced to writing; but the Magistrate may,  ifhe thinks fit, before the matter of the complaint is broughtbefore him, require it to be reduced to writing ;(c)	 ................................S.   202(1).   Any Magistrate, on receipt of a complaint  ofan offence of which he is authorised to take cognizance,  orwhich has been transferred to him under section 192, may, ifhe  thinks  fit,  for reasons to  be  recorded	in  writing,postpone the issue of process for compelling the  attendanceof  the person complained against, and either  inquire	intothe  case  himself or, if he is a Magistrate  other  that  aMagistrate  of	the  third  class,  direct  an	inquiry	  orinvestigation  to be made by any Magistrate  subordinate  tohim,  or by a police officer, or by such other person as  hethinks	fit,  for the purpose of ascertaining the  truth  orfalsehood of the complaint.Provided  that ..................(it is unnecessary to	readthe proviso.(2)  If	 any inquiry or investigation under this section  ismade by a person not being a Magistrate or a police-officer,such person shall exercise all the powers conferred by	thisCode  on  an officer in charge of a  police-station,  exceptthat he shall not have power to arrest without warrant.(2A) Any Magistrate inquiring into a case under9this  section may, if he thinks fit, take evidence  of	wit-nesses on oath.(3)  This section applies also to the police in the towns ofCalcutta and Bombay.S.   203.  The Magistrate before whom a complaint is made orto whom it has been transferred, may dismiss the  complaint,if, after considering the statement on oath (if any) of	 thecomplainant  and  the  witnesses  and  the  result  of	 theinvestigation  or inquiry (if any) under section 202,  thereis in his judgment no sufficient ground for proceeding.	  Insuch cases he shall briefly record his reasons for so  doing".The general scheme of the aforesaid sections is quite clear.Section	 200  says  inter  alia	 what  a  Magistrate  takingcognisance of an offence on complaint shall do on receipt ofsuch a complaint.  Section 202 says that the Magistrate may,if  he	thinks fit, for reasons to be recorded	in  writing,postpone the issue of process for compelling the  attendanceof  the person complained against and direct an inquiry	 forthe  purpose of ascertaining the truth or falsehood  of	 thecomplaint; in other words, the scope of an inquiry under thesection is limited to finding out the truth or falsehood  ofthe  complaint	in order, to determine the question  of	 theissue  of  process.   The  inquiry is  for  the	 purpose  ofascertaining  the truth or falsehood of the complaint;	thatis, for ascertaining whether there is evidence in support ofthe  complaint	so as to justify the issue  of	process	 andcommencement  of proceedings against the  person  concerned.The section does not say that a regular trial for  adjudgingthe  guilt  or otherwise of the	 person	 complained  againstshould	take place at that stage; for the person  complainedagainst can be legally called upon to answer the  accusationmade  against him only when a process has issued and  he  isput  on	 trial.	 Section 203, be it noted, consists  of	 twoparts: the first part indicates what are the materials whichthe Magistrate must consider, and the second part says	thatif  after  considering	those  materials  there	 is  in	 hisjudgment no sufficient ground for proceeding, he may dismissthe complaint.	Section 204 says that if10in the opinion of the Magistrate there is sufficient  groundfor  proceeding,  he  shall  take steps	 for  the  issue  ofnecessary process.Now,  in  the case before us it is not	contended  that	 thelearned	  Presidency  Magistrate  failed  to  consider	 thematerials which he had to consider, before passing his orderunder s. 203 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	 As a matterof fact the learned Magistrate fully, fairly and impartiallyconsidered these materials.  What is contended on behalf  ofthe respondent-complainant is that as a matter of law it wasnot  open  to the learned Magistrate to accept the  plea  ofright  of  self-defence at a stage when all that he  had  todetermine was whether a process should issue or not  againstthe  appellant.	 We are unable to accept this contention  ascorrect.   It is manifestly clear from the provisions of  s.203 that the judgment which the Magistrate has to form	mustbe  based  on  the statements of  the  complainant  and	 hiswitnesses  and the result of the investigation	or  inquiry.The section itself makes that clear, and it is not necessaryto  refer  to  authorities  in	support	 thereof.   But	 thejudgment which the Magistrate has to form is whether or	 notthere  is sufficient ground for proceeding.  This  does	 notmean  that the Magistrate is bound to accept the  result  ofthe inquiry or investigation or that he must accept any pleathat  is set up on behalf of the person complained  against.The Magistrate must apply his judicial mind to the materialson  which he has to form his judgment.	In arriving  at	 hisjudgment  he is not fettered in any way except	by  judicialconsiderations; he is not bound to accept what the inquiringofficer	 says,	nor is he precluded from  accepting  a	pleabased  on  an exception, provided always  there	 are  satis-factory	 and  reliable materials on which he  can  base	 hisjudgment  as  to  whether there	 is  sufficient	 ground	 forproceeding  on the complaint or not.  If the Magistrate	 hasnot misdirected himself as to the scope of an enquiry  unders. 202 and has applied his mind judicially to the  materialsbefore	him, we think that it would be erroneous in  law  tohold that a plea based on an exception can never be acceptedby him in11arriving  at his judgment.  What bearing such a plea has  onthe  case  of  the complainant and his	witnesses,  to	whatextent	 they  are  falsified  by  the	evidence  of   otherwitnesses-all  these  are questions which must	be  answeredwith reference to the facts of each case.  No universal rulecan be laid in respect of such questions.In support of its view the High Court has relied on some  ofits  earlier decisions: Emperor v. Dhondu Bapu (1);  Emperorv.  Finan  (2) and Tulsidas v. Billimoria (3).	 We  do	 notthink that any of the aforesaid decisions lays down any suchproposition in absolute terms as is contended for on  behalfof  the	 respondent.   In  Emperor  v.	Dhondu	Bapu  (1)  acomplaint   charging   defamation  was	dismissed   by	 theMagistrate under s. 203 without taking any evidence, on	 theground	that the accused was protected by s. 499,  exception8. It was held that the order of dismissal was bad.Patkar, J., significantly observed:"  If  the  Magistrate in this case had	 taken	evidence  onbehalf of the prosecution and on behalf of the accused,	 andpassed	a  proper  order for discharge,	 the  order  of	 theDistrict  Magistrate  ordering	a  further  enquiry  withoutgiving reasons might have stood on a different footing.	  Wedo  not	 think that, under the circumstances of	 this  case,there are adequate grounds for interfering with the order ofthe District Magistrate."In  Emperor  v. Finan (2) the accused did  not	dispute	 thecorrectness  of the statements made by the complainant,	 butin  justification pleaded the order passed by  his  superiorofficer	 and claimed protection under ss. 76 and 79  of	 theIndian	Penal Code.  It is worthy of note that the order  ofthe superior officer was not produced, but that officer veryimproperly  wrote a letter to the Magistrate saying that  hebad  given such an order.  In these circumstances, the	samelearned Judge who decided the earlier case observed:"It   was,  therefore,	incumbent  on  the   Magistrate	  toinvestigate the complaint and to find out whether(1) (1927) 29 Bom.  L.R. 713,715.  (2) (1931) 33 Bom.	L.R.1182.(3) (1932) 34 Bom.  L.R. 91012the  allegation of the accused that he was protected by	 ss.76  and	 79 of the Indian Penal Code was made out  by  legalevidence before him."The facts in Tulsidas v. Billimoria (1) were different,	 andthe  question there considered was whether a member  of	 theBar in India had absolute privilege.  That decision has verylittle bearing on the question now before us.Our  attention	has  also been drawn to a  decision  of	 theLahore	High  Court where the facts were  somewhat  similar:Gulab  Khan, deceased, through Karam Khan v. Gulam  MuhammadKhan  and  Others  (2).	  In  that  case  also	the   personcomplained against took the plea of self-defence, which	 wasaccepted.   In the High Court an objection was taken to	 theprocedure  adopted  and	 it was argued	that  the  order  ofdischarge  should  be  set  aside.   In	 dealing  with	thatargument Broadway, J., said :"  Now a Magistrate is empowered to hold an enquiry  into  acomplaint of an offence in order to ascertain whether  thereis sufficient foundation for it to issue process against theperson	or persons complained against.	In the present	casethe Magistrate clearly acted in the exercise of these powersunder  s.  202,	 Criminal Procedure Code.   He	allowed	 thecomplainant to produce such evidence in support of his	com-plaint as he wished to produce, and after a consideration ofthat evidence came to the conclusion that that evidence	 wasso wholly worthy (unworthy ?) of credence as to warrant	 histaking no further action in the matter."Therefore,  none of the aforesaid decisions lay down  as  anabsolute  proposition that a plea of self-defence can in  noevent  be  considered by the Magistrate in  dealing  with  acomplaint  under the provisions of ss. 200, 202 and  203  ofthe Code of Criminal Procedure.On  the	 facts, there is very little to	 be  said.   LearnedCounsel	 for the State of Bombay supported the order of	 thelearned	 Magistrate and pointed out that even on the  narrowview taken by the High Court, a view(1) (1932) 34 Bom.  L.R. 910.(2) A.I.R. 1927 Lah 3013to  which  he  did  not,  however,  subscribe,	the  learnedMagistrate rightly held that there was no sufficient  groundfor  proceeding; because the earlier version of some of	 thewitnesses for the complainant itself showed that there was ariotous mob on the road which attacked cars, burnt a  publicbus, pelted stones, etc., which was quite inconsistent	withtheir  later  version that Sitaram and his  companions	werequietly	 crossing  the	road and a shot	 was  fired  from  apassing	 or moving car.	 There was overwhelming material  toshow  Chat  K. K. Shah's car was surrounded by the  mob	 andsome  of  the  rioters	tried to drag  out  and	 attack	 theappellant.  K. K. Shah was one of the witnesses mentioned bythe complainant and so also two of the Inspectors of Police.Their  evidence clearly supported the plea of the  appellantand  in	 any  case, showed that the  witnesses	examined  onbehalf	of the respondent were totally unworthy of  credenceas  to the circumstances in which the shots were fired.	  Wecannot	therefore say that the learned Magistrate was  wrongin  his	 judgment that there was no  sufficient	 ground	 forproceeding further on the complaint.We accordingly hold that the High Court set aside the  orderof the learned Magistrate on an erroneous view of the  scopeof  s. 203 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.  We allow	 theappeal,	 set  aside  the  order	 of  the  High	Court  datedSeptember  13,	1957,  and  restore  that  of  the   learnedPresidency Magistrate dated April 30, 1957.				 Appeal allowed.14