PETITIONER:H. VENKATACHALA IYENGAR	Vs.RESPONDENT:B. N. THIMMAJAMMA & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:13/11/1958BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  443		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 426 CITATOR INFO : R	    1962 SC 567	 (5) F	    1964 SC 529	 (4) F	    1965 SC 354	 (9,11) F	    1971 SC2236	 (5) F	    1974 SC1999	 (7) F	    1977 SC  63	 (9) R	    1977 SC  74	 (10) R	    1982 SC 133	 (7) RF	    1987 SC 767	 (2) F	    1990 SC 396	 (21) E&R	    1990 SC1742	 (3)ACT:Will-Mode of proof-Onus-Suspicious circumstances-Removal  ofsuch suspicion, if part of the initial burden on the  propo-under-Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 Of 1872), ss. 45, 47, 67,68--Indian Succession Act, 1925 (XXXIX Of 1925), ss. 59, 63.HEADNOTE:The  mode of proving a will does not ordinarily differ	fromthat of proving any other document except as to the  specialrequirement of attestation prescribed in the case of a	willby s. 63 of the Indian Succession Act.	Proof in either casecannot be mathematically precise and certain and so the testshould	be  one of satisfaction of a prudent  mind  in	suchmatters.  The onus must be on the propounder and in  absenceof suspicious circumstances surrounding the execution of thewill,  proof of testamentary capacity and signature  of	 thetestator  as required by law may be sufficient to  dischargethe onus.Where, however, there are suspicious circumstances, the onuswould  be  on the propounder to explain them to	 the  satis-faction	 of  the Court before the will can  be	accepted  asgenuine.  If the caveator alleges undue influence, fraud  orcoercion  the onus will be on him to prove the same.   Wherethere  are no such pleas but the circumstances give rise  tosuch  doubts,  it  is  for the	propounder  to	satisfy	 theconscience of the Court.What  are  suspicious circumstances must be  judged  in	 thefacts  and  circumstances of each particular case.   If	 thepropounder  takes a prominent part in the execution  of	 thewill which confers substantial benefits on him, that  itselfis a suspicious circumstance attending the execution of	 thewill  and in appreciating the evidence in such a  case,	 thecourt should proceed with an open but nevertheless  vigilantand cautious mind.Harmes	v. Hinkson, (1946) 50 C.W.N. 895, Fulton v.  Andrew,(1875) L.R. 7 H.L. 448, Barry v. Butlin, [1838] 2 MOO.	P.C.480,  Vallasamy Servai v. Sivaraman Servai, (1929)  L.R.  57I.A. 96 and Sarat Kumar Bibi v. Sakhi Chand, (1928) L. R. 561. A. 62, referred to.Case-law discussed.In the instant case the appellant, as the sole executor to awill, brought the suit out of which the appeal arises, for adeclaration  that  the testatrix was the  owner	 of  certainproperties  and was as such entitled to dispose of  them  bythe  will and asked for consequential reliefs purporting  togive  effect to the bequests made by her.  It appeared	fromthe  evidence that the appellant took a prominent, if not  adecisive, part in the execution of the427will, which contained substantial bequests in favour of	 hissons.  But there was no evidence to show that the draft	 wasever  approved by the testatrix or that the will  was  fullyread out to her and she knew its contents.  The trial  courtdecreed the suit but the High Court dismissed the same.Held,  that  the High Court was right in setting  aside	 thefinding	 of the trial court that the will had been duly	 andvalidly executed.Held  further, that the trial court was in error in  holdingthat the proof of signature in the instant case could  raisea presumption as to the testator's knowledge of the contentsof the will.Surendra  Nath Chatterji v. Jahnavi Charan Mukherji,  (1928)I.L.R 56 Cal. 390, explained and approved.JUDGMENT:   CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.18 of 1955.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated March 20, 1651, ofthe  Mysore High Court in R.A. No. 155 of  1947-48,  arisingout  of the judgment and decree dated December 19, 1947,  ofthe  Court  of Sub_Judge, Mysore, in 0. S. Suit	 No.  44  of1946-47.S.   K. Venkataranga Iyengar and K. Keshava Iyengar, for theappellant.A.   V. Viswanatha Sastri and K. R. Choudhry, forrespondent No. 1.1958.  November 13.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyGAJENDRAGADKAR, J.-This appeal arises from a suit brought bythe appellant in the court of the Subordinate Judge, Mysore,as  the	 sole  executor of the will  alleged  to  have	beenexecuted by one Lakshmamma on August 22, 1945, (Ex.  A).  Inthis suit the appellant claimed a declaration that the	saidLakshmamma was the owner of the properties mentioned in	 theschedule attached to the plaint and as such was entitled  todispose	 of them by a will; and be asked  for  consequentialreliefs	 purporting to give effect to the bequests  made  bythe  said  will.   The	schedule  attached  to	the   plaintdescribes  the	properties covered by the  will	 under	fiveitems.	First three items in the schedule refer respectivelyto  5,	4  and 4 agricultural lands  at	 Hampapura  village,whereas the fourth item includes4289 lands at Arjunahalli village and the last item is.& vacantsite  in Hampapura village.  According to the plaint,  underthe  will respondent I was entitled only to a life  interestin items I and 2 and that on her death the said items  wouldvest  in respondents 2 to 4 and respondent  5  respectively.Since respondent 1 was in possession of all the five  items,the  appellant	claimed	 a  decree  for	 possession  againstrespondent  1  in  respect  of	items  3,  4  and  5  and  adeclaration  that  respondent  I was to	 have  only  a	lifeinterest in items 1 and 2. By his plaint the appellant	alsoclaimed	 to  recover Rs. 2,106 which had been  collected  byrespondent  1  by way of income from the suit  lands  and  afurther	 prayer	 was made for the payment of  current  mesneprofits by respondent 1.Before referring to the pleadings of the parties it would berelevant  to mention the material facts in regard  to  theirrelationship  which are not in dispute.	 One Annaji  lyengarwho  died in July 1903 left behind him his adopted son,	 theappellant,  and two daughters Gundamma alias  Ranganayakammawho  is	 still	alive and Lakshmamma alias  Achamma  who  isalleged	 to  have  executed  the  will	in  suit  and	diedthereafter on September 26, 1945, at Mandya.  Respondents  2to 4 are the sons of the appellant.  Lakshmamma was  marriedto Sadagopalachar who died in December 1908.  The couple hadthree  children,  a son named Narayana lyengar who  died  onJanuary 14, 1944, without any issue and left behind him	 hiswidow  respondent  1  ; and the two  remaining	children  ofLakshmamma  were  daughters  Thirumalamma  and	Yadugiramma.Both  of them are dead.	 Thirumalamma was married to one  G.Parthasarathy  lyengar	by  whom  she  had  a  son  of	weakintellect, who died pending litigation, and three  daughtersNeelu,	Jaya  and  Padmini.   Yadugiramma  was	married	  toKalbagal  Garudachar  and  by him she had  a  son  Narasimhalyengar,   respondent  5,  and	daughter  Lilly.    KalbagalGarudachar had a son S. G. Kalbagal, (hereinafter  describedas  Junior Kalbagal) from his first wife.  Jaya was  marriedto  Kalbagal Junior.  The claim made by the appellant  underthe will is resisted by respondent 1.429Respondents 2 to 5 have not appeared in the proceedings.According to the case set out by the appellant in his plaintAnnaji lyengar bad made a gift of properties, items 1 and 2,in  favour jointly of Lakshmamma and Sadagopalachar under  aregistered  deed of gift on February 16, 1902 (Ex.  D).	  Itwas also alleged that the said Annaji lyengar had executed awill  On  August 31, 1901, (Ex.	 B2(a)) under which  he	 hadbequeathed in favour of Lakshmamma and Sadagopalachar  hypo-thecation bonds to the extent of Rs. 10,320 as gift with theexpress stipulation that the survivor of the legatees shouldtake  the  whole  of  the  bequest  by	survivorship.	 Theappellant  alleged  that Sadagopalachar was a  man  of	verymoderate  means	 and  had  given up his	 petty	job  in	 theregistration  department in order to manage  the  propertiesreceived  by him and his wife from Annaji  lyengar.   Duringthe course of the management Sadagopalachar used the cash ofRs.  10,320  received by bequest under the  will  of  Annajilyengar to buy some immoveable properties including items  3and   4.   Since  Sadagopalachar   pre-deceased	  his	wifeLakshmamma, all his rights in the properties acquired  underthe  gift  deed	 as well  as  those  subsequently  purchaseddevolved  on Lakshmamma alone by survivorship.	That is	 howshe  became  the  absolute owner  of  the  said	 properties.Alternatively  it was alleged by the appellant that even  ifsurvivorship  did not apply and so her son Narayana  lyengaracquired  interest  to	half the  share	 in  the  propertiescovered	 by the gift deed, he had during his  lifetime	soldaway  considerable properties of his father and mother	muchabove  the  value of his half share and in  consequence	 theremaining properties which represent Lakshmamma's half sharebecame her absolute properties.	 On this alternative  groundthe  absolute  title of Lakshmamma with regard	to  all	 theproperties  in suit was set up.	 The appellant thus  claimedthat Lakshmamma was entitled to make a will and asked -.or adeclaration  in that behalf and consequential reliefs so  asto  give effect to the terms and dispositions of  the  will.According to the appellant the will propounded by him was430the last testament of Lakshmamma and it had been a  executedby her voluntarily and of her own free will while she was ina sound and disposing state of mind.Respondent I disputed the appellants claim.  She denied thatAnnaji	lyengar had made a will on August 31, 1901, or	thatLakshmamma and Sadagopalachar had received the moveables  ofthe value of	Rs. 10,320 under it.  According to her,	 thegift  deed  (Ex.   D)  did not	provide	 for  devolution  ofinterest  by survivorship; she pleaded that  Lakshmamma	 hadtransferred all her interests in the properties comprised inthe  gift deed in favour of her husband	 Sadagopalachar	 whothen  became their sole owner.	Respondent 1 did  not  admitthat the properties subsequently purchased by Sadagopalacharincluding  items  3  to 5 were	purchased  with	 any  moniesbequeathed to him and his wife by Annaji lyengar;  accordingto  her, Sadagopalachar had made these purchases  with	his,own funds.  Respondent 1's case was that, after the death ofhis  father  Sadagopalachar, her  husband  Narayana  lyengarbecame	the  absolute  owner of all the	 properties  and  soLakshmamma  was	 not  competent in law to  make	 a  will  inrespect	 of any of them.  She further alleged that the	willset up by the appellant was not genuine or valid and that atthe  material  time  Lakshmamma	 was  not  in  a  sound	 anddisposing  state of mind.  She contended that the  will	 hadbeen brought into existence through the machinations of	 theappellant  and she disputed the appellant's right  to  bringthe present suit.On  these pleadings the learned trial judge  framed  fifteenissues.	  He found that the will executed by Annaji  lyengaron August 31, 1901, was genuine and valid; and that the ruleof survivorship was applicable as between the legatees interse  in respect of the properties conveyed by the said  will.It was, however, held that the rule of survivorship did	 Dotapply  to  the	properties  gifted  to	Sadagopalachar	 andLakshmamma  under Annaji's deed of gift (Ex.  D)  which	 washeld  to be genuine and valid.	In regard to the  propertiessubsequently  purchased by Sadagopalachar the learned  judgesaid that " in fairness to the parties he would431like  to hold that various survey numbers in items 3  and  4had been purchased by Sadagopalachar out of the joint incomefrom the properties bequeathed to him and his wife by Annajias also from the properties and through income which he	 gotat  a partition between himself and his	 coparCeners  ".(Ex.F).   The  purchases made by Narayana Iyengar were  held  tohave  been made out of the income of the properties of,	 hisfather and of his mother.  The learned judge-' rejected	 theplaintiffs  case that Narayana lyengar had disposed  of	 hisproperties  equivalent to his right under the gift  deed  ofAnnaji	(Ex.   D)  and held that he was	 the  owner  of	 theproperties which had. vested in his father.  In the  result,according to the learned judge, Lakshmamma had a half  sharein  all the properties in suit and so she was  competent  tomake  the  will in respect of the said share.	The  learnedjudge  then considered the question as to the  execution  ofthe will set up by the appellant and came to the  conclusionthat  the will (Ex.  A) was genuine and valid to the  extentof the share belonging to the testatrix.  The learned  judgealso found that the suit was maintainable, was not barred bytime  and  had been properly filed.  As a  result  of  thesefindings the learned judge declared that Lakshmamma was	 thefull owner of half the share in the scheduled properties andthat respondent I under the will had only a life interest inrespect	 of the said half share in items 1 and 2. As a	con-sequence  of  this  declaration the  decree  passed  by	 thelearned judge directed respondent I to put the appellant  inpossession  of Lakshmamma's half share in items 3, 4 and  5;it also ordered respondent 1 to pay. to the appellant a	 sumof Rs. 1,050 out of the past mesne profits recovered by her.An enquiry into future mesne profits was also directed under0.  XX, r. 12.	In view of the fact that the  appellant	 hadsucceeded only in regard to half the properties in suit	 thedecree askEd the parties to bear their own costs.Against this decree respondent I preferred an appeal in	 theHigh  Court  of	 Mysore;  and  the  appellant  filed   crossobjections.  The High Court held that the appellant had	 notestablished that when Lakshmamma was432alleged	 to  have executed the will she was in a  sound	 anddisposing state of mind or that it was her will in the sensethat it represented her	 intentions.  According to the	HighCourt,	in  the	 light	of  this  finding  "  it  might	  beunnecessary to consider the other issues in the case".	Evenso  the High Court proceeded to indicate its conclusions  ontwo  of	 such  issues.	 It held   that	 the  appellant	 hadentirely failed to prove that the money for the purchase  ofitems 3, 4 and 5 came out of any bequest under Annaji's will(Ex.   B2(a)) or the incomes from the properties covered  bythe  gift  deed (Ex.  D) and so in  its	 opinion  Lakshmammacould  not claim any share in the said properties.   On	 theother hand, the High Court indicated that it was inclined toaccept	the plea raised by respondent 1 that Lakshmamma	 hadtransferred all her interest in the properties comprised  inthe   said   deed  of  gift  in	 favour	  of   her   husbandSadagopalachar; and since in its opinion " Lakshmamms at  notime  appears to have claimed that she had any	interest  inthose  properties,  there  was	considerable  force  in	 theargument  urged	 by respondent 1 that LakShmamma  must	haverelinquished her interest in the said properties and  waivedher  rights  in	 favour of -her husband ".  The	 High  Courtthought	  that	the  learned  trial  judge  had	 not   fullyconsidered all the material bearing on this point and so wasin error in holding that at the relevant date Lakshmamma hada  subsisting  interest in half the share even in  the	suitproperties,  items  1  and  2.	Having	thus  indicated	 itsdecision on the two issues the High Court has observed	thateven if it had found in favour of the appellant on these twopoints it would not have been of any help to him because hiscase must inevitably fail when it is held that the will	 setup  by him was not proved to be the last will and  testamentof  Lakshmamma.	  In  the result  the  appeal  preferred  byrespondent I was allowed, the cross-objections filed by	 theappellant were rejected and his suit was dismissed.  In	 thecircumstances  of the case the High Court made no orders  asto costs.The  appellant then applied for and obtained  a	 certificatefrom the High Court that the decision under433appeal is one of reversal and it involves a claim respectingproperties  of	the value of not less than Rs.	20,000.	  Inpursuance  of this certificate the High Court  ordered	thatthe  appeal  to this Court should be admitted; and  so	thisappeal has come to this Court.Since  the  main  contention  raised  by  the  appellant  isdirected against the finding of the High Court that the willin question is not proved to be the last will and, testamentof  Lakshmamma, it would be necessary to refer to the  broadfeatures,  and	dispositions, of the will and  the  evidenceadduced	 by  the appellant to prove its execution.   At	 thematerial  time	Lakshmamma was about 64 years of  age.	 Sheusually	 resided at Hampapur; but about a month	 before	 theexecuting  of the will she had gone to Mandya to attend	 themarriage  in  the  house  of  Junior  Kalbagal.	  After	 themarriage  was  over  she would	normally  have	returned  toHampapur  but she fell ill and had to extend her  stay	withJunior Kalbagal.  The appellant's case is that she had	toldhim  that  she wanted to execute a will and  had  given	 himinstructions in that behalf.  This talk had taken place	 be-tween  her  and	 the  appellant	 about	a  year	 before	 theexecution of the will.	The appellant, however, did not findtime  to get the will written.	When Lakshmamma fell ill  atMandya	the appellant had gone to visit her and she  pressedthe appellant to prepare the draft of her will in accordancewith her instructions.	So the appellant prepared a draft atMysore	a day prior to the execution of the will.   He	thenwent to Mandya by. the morning train on August 22, 1945, andthe  will  was	got  written about  11	or  11-30  a.m.	 Theappellant  had the draft in his hand from which he  dictatedto  the	 scribe	 Chokkanna (P.	W. 3) who  wrote  the  will.After  the  will  was  written the scribe  took	 it  to	 theadjoining room where Lakshmamma was lying in bed.  The	willwas  then  read	 out to her and was signed by  her  in	fiveplaces (Exs.  A-1 to A-5).  Subsequently it was attested  bytwo  witnesses	Krishnamurthy Rao (P. W.  1)  and  NarasimhaIyengar (P.  W. 2).  Some time	   later  during the  courseof the day the Sub-Registrar  came  to the house  of  JuniorKalbagal and in his 55434presence the will (Ex.	A) was duly registered.	 On the sameday  at about the same time Lakshmamma executed a  power  ofattorney  in  favour  of the appellant (Ex.   EE)  and	thisdocument  was  also  duly  attested  and  registered.	 Theappellant has examined himself (P. W. 7), the two  attestingwitnesses (P.  W. 1 and P.W.  2), the scribe (P.  W. 3)	 andJunior	Kalbagal  (P. W.4) in support of his case  that	 thewill was duly and validly executed by Lakshmamma.The  will  is  a  fairly  long	document  and  its   Englishtranslation  spreads over eight printed pages.	 Though	 thedispositions  in the will have occupied a small	 portion  ofthe  document it contains elaborate arguments in support  ofthe averment of the testatrix that she was entitled to	makea  will	 in respect of all the properties mentioned  in	 thewill.  The will begins with the recital about the illness ofthe  testatrix and says " as I have felt in my mind that  itis necessary to mention here certain matters clearly so thatthere  may not be any kind of obstacles and  obstruction  atthe  instance of any in respect of my purposes	coming	intoeffect	after my death I have got them written	in  detail."Then,  the will refers to the gift deed executed  by  Annajijointly	  in  favour  of  the  testatrix  and  her   husbandSadagopalachar	as  well  as to Annaji's  will	under  whichhypothecation  bonds  of  the  value  of  Rs.  10,000	werebequeathed  to	both of them.  The will then refers  to	 thefact that Sadagopalachar was possessed of only a house and acarriage  shed and owned no other ancestral property.	Eventhe  said  house was of " very ancient times and  was  in  adilapidated    condition   ".	According   to	 the	willSadagopalachar held a small government job which he resignedin order to live in Hampapur and to look after the  propertyobtained  by gift from Annaji.	" It was my opinion ",	saysthe  will, " that he was probably looking after my share  ofthe  property in addition to his own and was  improving	 thesame.  It is but natural to think in this manner mutually inrespect	 of husband and wife ". Then the will refers to	 thesubsequent  purchase  of certain lands and  avers  that	 theamounts received by the couple from Annaji were utilised forthe said435purchase.   The	 will then refers to the  death	 of  Sadago-palachar  in  1908  and	 describes  the	 management  of	 theproperties  during the lifetime of Narayana lyengar the	 sonof the testatrix.  It says that during Narayanan's  minoritythe  testatrix sold some properties at the advice  and	withthe help of her Brother-in-law Srinivasa lyengar for debts "without considering whether it was my share or my  husband'sshare  "; she. also sold gold and diamond ornaments to	meetthe  urgent needs of the family.  After Narayanan  became  amajor  he began to manage the property in constitution	withSrinivasa  lyengar.  Narayanan wanted to build a  house	 forresidence  in Mysore and so he sold some wet lands  situatedat Sarvamanya Gaudhanahalli village.  Narayanan had no issueand  so he spent generously at the time of the	marriage  ofthe  three  daughters of his  younger  sister  Thirumalamma.Besides he got ornaments prepared moderately for all of themand  purchased	and gave them as pin money  some  wet  landssituated  at Arjunahalli village.  Narayanan  purchased	 andgave  some wet lands at the same village to the son  of	 hissecond	younger	 sister Kalbagal Narasimha  Iyengar  and  toSingamma  and Lalithamma.  Then the will refers	 to  certainpurchases  made by Narayanan and adds that the	purchase  ofthe said lands nominally stands in his name though the rightto  the	 property vested in the testatrix.   The  will	thenstates	that  Narayanan had no issue and so he	treated	 hisyounger	 sister's  children as his own,	 attended  to  theireducation,  marriage  and other	 auspicious  functions	withgreat  zeal.   Having  disposed of his	properties  for	 thebenefit of the said children Narayanan considered that sincehe  was	 the  only son of the testatrix	 her  share  of	 theproperty  was sufficient for the maintenance of himself	 andhis  wife and so he had no worry on that account.  In  otherwords, the will alleges that as a result of the	 alienationsmade  by  Narayanan  he	 ceased to have	 any  share  in	 theproperties  that  remained  and	 in  consequence  the	saidproperties belonged exclusively and solely to the testatrix.Then  the will refers to the insurance amount of  Rs.  4,000which was paid to respondent 1 on Narayanan's death; and436in  regard to Narayanan's illness which ultimately  resultedin  his death the will adds that the testatrix	herself	 hadprovided  separate  money  for	his  medicinal	and   familyexpenses  and that she had given Narayanan Rs.	3,000  whichhad  been deposited with her Brother-in-law and the  ReserveBank  share of Rs. 500 to enable him to purchase a house  atMysore.	  The ,.will then refers to respondent in  terms  ofaffection and states that the testatrix was making a bequestfor  life of items I and 2 in her favour in order  that	 shemay lead her life without any difficulty. ,Except me ", saysthe  will, " no one has any right whatever to the  scheduledproperties.   They  should go only to those for whom  it  isintended  here	according to my desire after  my  death	 butthere is no reason whatsoever for their going to my  agnatesor  any others.	 I am at full liberty to  make	dispositionshereby according to my desire ".After making these elaborate averments the will proceeds  tomake  dispositions of items I to 5. Items I and 2 are  givento  respondent for life.  " She shall have no right such  ashypothecation,	sale,  gift,  exchange, etc.,  of  the	saidproperties  nor	 has  she  any	right  whatever	 to   createliability in any way in favour of others ". After her  deathrespondents 2 to 4 are given item I and item 2 is bequeathedto respondent 5. Respondent 5 is described as an heir by thetestatrix after her death and has been authorised to performall  her ceremonies.  Item 3 is bequeathed to  respondent  5and item 4 to respondents 2, 3 and 4. Out of the 15 acres ofland included in item 4, the bequest in regard to 9 acres isburdened  with	a charge in favour of certain  legacies	 andcharities  mentioned  in the will.  The	 recipients  of	 thelegacies  who are the relatives of the testatrix are  named,and the charities are also specifically mentioned.  Rs.	 500each have to be paid to her eldest daughter's third daughterPadminiamma, to her eldest daughter's son Thirumalachar	 andto  Sudhakalyani,  the	daughter of  her  eldest  daughter'ssecond	daughter Jaya and to Nagendra, son of Neelamma,	 theeldest daughter of her eldest daughter.	 Besides, Rs.  1,000had to be used for437conducting service in the Sannadi of Lakshminarayanaswamy atHampapur  on the respective dates of death of  her  husband,her son and herself.  A sum of Rs. 500 has to be endowed forthe  Nandadipa	service	 in the name  of  Narayanan  in	 theSannadi	 of  Thirupati Venkataramanaswami, and Rs.  500	 forsimilar service in the name of Sadagopalachar in the Sannadiof  Channakeshavaswami,	 Belur, the place of the  family  inHassan District.  An amount of Rs. 1,000 has to be  utilisedfor scholarship to poor students.  In all Rs. 5,000 have  tobe spent for these legacies and charities.  The will directsthat  if  respondents  2 to 4 fail to  make  these  paymentswithin	three  years after the death of	 the  testatrix	 theappellant  who	is  appointed the executor  under  the	willshould,	 after the expiry of the said three years, sell	 forreasonable price the lands charged in that behalf and shouldpay  the full amount realised by such sale to carry out	 theaforesaid  charitable  works  and  to  give  effect  to	 thelegacies  mentioned in the will.  The will then	 avers	thatafter her death the document would remain with the appellantand  it adds that the testatrix has not executed  any  priorwill but that in case any such will has been executed by herthe  same  stood cancelled by the execution of	the  presentwill.  The will then repeats the averment about the title ofthe  testatrix	and states that when  Narayana	Iyengar	 wasalive  he had sold about 17 acres of land situate at  Adagurand other places for purchasing lands at Arjunahalli villagefor  his  sisters' children and so the	testatrix  had	fullliberty	 to make a disposition in respect of  the  scheduledproperties  which  were her own.  The will  also  adds	thatthough the said properties stand in the name of her son	 andrent  notes  in respect of them are  similarly	executed  infavour of her son that does not affect her title to the saidproperties  in any way.	 These are the broad  features,	 anddispositions, of the will in question.We  would  now	indicate briefly the  evidence	led  by	 theappellant  on the question about the valid execution of	 thewill.	We  have already mentioned that	 the  two  attestingwitnesses,  the scribe and the appellant himself have  givenevidence in support of the will.438Mr.  Krishnamurthy Rao (P.  W. 1) was a medical	 officer  tothe  Mysore  Sugar Company, Mandya, and he knew	 the  JuniorKulbagal  who  was working as a Cane Superintendent  in	 thesaid factory.  This witness was called by Kalbagal to attestthe will and so he went to his house and saw that Lakshmammawas lying in her bed since she had an attack of paralysis onher left  side.	 According to the witness her mind was clearand  he attested the will after ascertaining from  her	thatthe  document  had received her approval.  The	witness	 wascross-examined	in  regard  to his  statement  that  he	 hadtreated	 Lakshmamma  and it was brought out in	his  answersthat though she may have been under his treatment for  abouta  week	 he could not say if her name found a place  in	 thehospital  register.  He, however, added that  even  patientswho  are treated in their houses would be mentioned  in	 thehospital  'register if they come and take medicine from	 thehospital.   The	 witness  admitted that	 the  will  was	 notwritten	 in  his presence and that it  was  already  writtenbefore	he  went to attest it.	When the witness  was  askedabout the details of his signature on the will he gave	ans-wers   which  showed  that  he	did  not  have	 any   clearrecollection  as  to what happened on that date.   First  hestated that he had put one signature but ultimately admittedthat  he had signed twice, once while he attested  the	willand  also  when	 the  Sub-Registrar  registered	 it  in	 hispresence.   It	fact some of his answers  suggest  that	 thewitness	 did not even remember that he was present when	 theSub-Registrar  arrived	and registered	the  document.	 Thewitness stated that the will was read in his presence but hedid not know if the whole was read or only a few portions ofit.The  next attesting witness is Narasimha lyengar (P. W.	 2).He   was  employed  in	Mandya	Sugar  Company	 Distillery.According  to him the will was written in his  presence	 andLakshmamma put her signature on it also in his presence.  Incross-examination,  however, it appeared that his  statementthat  he  was present when the will was written may  not  beaccurate.   He	did  not know whether there  was  any  draftalready prepared and he saw none.439According  to him, after the will was written the  appellantread out the will to Lakshmamma	  but	   according  to theappellant  the will was read out by the scribe.	  He  statedthat after the will was attested both he and P.	  W. 1	leftthe  place but it is clear that P. W. 1 was present  at	 thetime of registration.  The witness even did not know whetherLakshmamma had any attack of paralysis.	 The evidence of thescribe	(P.  W. 3) and of the appellant (P.  W.	 7)  clearlynegatived Mr. Iyengar's statement that he was present at thetime the will was written.  The evidence of both the  scribeand  the appellant unmistakably shows that Mr.	lyengar	 wasnot present when the will was written.Chokkanna  (P.	W. 3) the scribe is a relative of  Kulbagal.The  mother of Chokkanna and Kulbagal's mother are  sisters.He has written the will.  According to him Lakshmamma statedthat  she wanted to execute a will and that she would  agreeto what the appellant would get written.  The witness statedthat the will was written according to the dictation of	 theappellant in the presence of Lakshmamma.  The appellant	 hada draft with him.  Except the appellant, Lakshmamma and	 thescribe none else was present when the will was written.	 Theattesting  witnesses came after the will was  written.	 Thewitness	 then read the will to Lakshmamma who  consented  tothe recitals and signed it.  It may be pointed out that	 theaccount given by the scribe in respect of the writing of thewill  is  somewhat different from the account given  by	 theappellant.   The  -appellant has stated that  the  will	 waswritten	 in  one  room	and  Lakshmamma	 was  lying  in	 theadjoining  room and it was after the will was  written	thatthe scribe went into the adjoining room and read the will toher  so that the statement of the scribe that the  will	 waswritten	 in the presence of Lakshmamma is not  supported  bythe  appellant.	 In fact the appellant's statement  is	cor-roborated by the evidence of Junior Kulbagal in this matter.Mr.  Kalbagal  (P.W.  4) does not seem	to  know  about	 theintention of the testatrix to execute the will.	 It was whenplaintiff asked him to get some attesting440witnesses  that he came to know that a will was going to  beexecuted.  He then went and brought P. W. 1 and P. W. 2	 forattestation.  This witness admitted that Lakshmamma was	 illand was unable to get up and leave her bed.  He heard  abouther  intention	to  execute the will about  9  a.m.  in	 themorning.  He was not present when the will was written.	  Hewas,  how  ever, present when the will was read out  by	 thescribe	to Lakshmamma.	His father Kalbagal  Garudachar	 andhis  wife Jaya were also present.  The witness	then  statedthat  the appellant brought the Sub-Registrar at about	5-30p. m. and the Sub-Registrar registered the will.  It  would,however,  appear from the application (Ex.  VI) made to	 theSub-Registrar  inviting him to come to Kalbagal's  house  toregister  the  will that it was not the	 appellant  but	 thewitness himself who had brought the Sub-Registrar.The  last  witness in support of the will is  the  appellanthimself,  (P.W.	 7).   He has  spoken  to  the	instructionsreceived  by him from Lakshmamma a year before the  date  ofthe execution of the will and he has stated that he prepareda  draft  at Mysore a day before the will was  executed	 andthat  the will was written by the scribe as he dictated	 thecontents from the said draft.  He had told Lakshmamma  aboutwhat the draft contained but he admitted that the draft	 wasnot  read out to her.  The witness has then referred to	 thefact that the will was read out by the scribe to  Lakshmammaand she consented to it, whereupon it was signed by her	 andsubsequently attested by the two attesting witnesses.	Thenthe  witness refers to the registration of the	document  atabout 5-30 p.m. On the morning of the day when the will	 wasexecuted  the witness was told by Lakshmamma that she  wouldexecute a power of attorney though the witness had not askedfor  it.  A power of attorney was accordingly  prepared	 andduly executed and registered.  That in brief is the evidenceon which the appellant relies.It would be convenient at this stage to refer briefly to thereasons	 given	by  the courts below  in  support  of  theirrespective  findings.  The learned trial judge put the	onusof proving the will on the appellant but441he observed that " the proof that is necessary to  establisha  will	 is not an absolute or a conclusive  one.   What  isrequired is only such proof as would satisfy a prudent man:-The  learned judge then considered the evidence of  the	 twoattesting witnesses and the scribe and observed that " therecan  absolutely be no doubt that P.W. 3 wrote Ex.  A at	 thetime when it is said to have been( written ". He was of	 theopinion	 that the evidence of the scribe fully	corroboratesthe evidence of P. W. I and P. W. 2. The learned judge	thenmentioned the fact that P. W. 4 who supported the  appellantis no other than the husband of Lakshmamma's  granddaughter.The evidence of the appellant himself was considered by	 thelearned	 judge	and his conclusion was that " it had  to  betaken  that Ex.	 A is a will executed by Lakshmamma and	 thesignatures,  Exs.  A - I to A-5 are those of  Lakshmamma  ".The argument urged by respondent I that Lakshmamma could nothave  understood the contents of Ex.  A was rejected by	 thelearned judge and he observed that " when it is proved -thatExs.   A-1 to A-5 are signatures of Lakshmamma and that	 sheexecuted Ex.  A, it is to be presumed that the testatrix hadthe knowledge of the contents of the will ". In the end	 thelearned	 judge thus recorded his finding: " In view  of	 theevidence  and the presumption referred to above I  think  wedeed  not  have any hesitation in  holding  that  Lakshmammaexecuted Ex.  A having fully understood the nature of Ex.  Aand the recitals made therein ".The  High  Court, on the other hand, has  taken	 a  contraryview.	The High Court thought that the evidence adduced  bythe  appellant	to prove the execution of the will  was	 notsatisfactory.	It then examined the said evidence  in	somedetail,	 criticised the discrepancies appearing in the	saidevidence,  considered the probabilities and concluded  that,on  the	 whole,	 the said evidence  would  not	justify	 thefinding	 that  the  will  had  been  duly  executed  by	 thetestatrix.  The High Court also thought that the appellant'sversion about the instructions given by Lakshmamma to him56442in  the	 matter	 of the execution of  the  will	 was  highlyimprobable;  and,  according to the High  Court,  the  wholeevidence  of  the appellant appeared to	 be  unsatisfactory.The  High  Court then considered the question  of  onus	 andobserved  that	since the appellant's sons  had	 received  asubstantial benefit under the will and since he had taken  aleading part in its execution, the onus was heavy on him  toremove	the  suspicions	 attending  the	 execution  of	 thedocument  and  to  establish  that  Lakshmamma	had   reallyunderstood  its contents, had approved of them and  had	 puther  signatures on it when she was in a sound and  disposingstate  of mind.	 It that the High Court also felt  that	 thedispositions made by the will were unnatural and improbable;in particular it took the view that since the appellant	 hadcome  into  the	 family of Annaji by adoption  it  was	veryunlikely   that	 his  sons  should  have  received  such   asubstantial benefit under the will.  In fact the judgment ofthe  High Court appears to indicate that The High Court	 wasinclined  to hold that the testatrix may not have been in  asound and disposing state of mind at the material time.	  Itis  on these findingS that the High Court reached its  finalconclusion  that the appellant had failed to prove  the	 dueand valid execution of the will.What  is the true legal position in the matter of  proof  ofwills ? It is well-known that the proof of wills presents  arecurring topic for decision in courts and there are a largenumber of judicial pronouncements on the subject.  The partypropounding a will or otherwise making a claim under a	willis no doubt seeking to prove a document and, in deciding howit  is	to  be	proved, we  must  inevitably  refer  to	 thestatutory  provisions which govern the proof  of  documents.Sections 67 and 68 of the Evidence Act are relevant for thispurpose.  Under s. 67, if a document is alleged to be signedby  any	 person, the signature of the said  person  must  beproved	to  be in his handwriting, and for  proving  such  ahandwriting  under ss. 45 and 47 of the Act the opinions  ofexperts	 and of persons acquainted with the  handwriting  ofthe  person concerned are made relevant.  Section  68  dealswith443the  proof of the execution of the document required by	 lawto  be attested; and it provides that such a document  shallnot be used as evidence until one attesting witness at leasthas  been called for the purpose of proving  its  execution.These  provisions prescribe the requirements and the  natureof proof which must be satisfied by the party who relies  ona  document in a court of law.	Similarly, ss. 59 and 63  ofthe  Indian  Succession Act are also relevant.	 Section  59provides that every person of sound mind, not being a minor,may   dispose  of  his	property  by  will  and	 the   threeillustrations to this section indicate what is meant by	 theexpression  "  a  person of sound mind	"  in  the  context.Section	 63 requires that the testator shall sign  or  affixhis  mark  to the will or it shall be signed by	 some  otherperson	in  his presence and by his direction and  that	 thesignature or mark shall be so made that it shall appear thatit  was intended thereby to give effect to the writing as  awill.	This  section also requires that the will  shall  beattested  by two or more witnesses as prescribed.  Thus	 thequestion as to whether the will set up by the propounder  isproved to be the last will of the testator has to be decidedin  the light of these provisions.  Has the testator  signedthe  will ? Did he understand the nature and effect  of	 thedispositions  in the will ? Did he put his signature to	 thewill  knowing what it contained ? Stated broadly it  is	 thedecision  of these questions which determines the nature  ofthe finding on the question of the proof of wills.  It wouldprima  facie be true to say that the will has to  be  provedlike   any   other  document  except  as  to   the   specialrequirements  of  attestation  prescribed by s.	 63  of	 theIndian	Succession  Act.  As in the case of proof  of  otherdocuments so in the case of proof of wills it would be	idleto expect proof with mathematical certainty.  The test to beapplied would be the usual test of the satisfaction of	the,prudent mind in such matters.However, there is one important feature which  distinguisheswills from other documents.  Unlike other documents the willspeaks	from the death of the testator, and so, when  it  ispropounded or produced444before	a court, the testator who has already  departed	 theworld  cannot say whether it is his will or not ;  and	thisaspect	naturally introduces an element of solemnity in	 thedecision  of  the  question  as	 to  whether  the   document-propounded  is proved to be the last will and testament  ofthe  departed testator.	 Even so, in dealing with the  proofof wills the court will start on the same enquiry as in	 thecase  of  the proof of documents.  The propounder  would  becalled	upon to show by satisfactory evidence that the	willwas  signed  by	 the  testator, that  the  testator  at	 therelevant  time was in a sound and disposing state  of  mind,that he understood the nature and effect of the dispositionsand put his signature to the document of his own free  will.Ordinarily when the evidence adduced in support of the	willis  disinterested, satisfactory and sufficient to prove	 thesound  and  disposing state of the testator's mind  and	 hissignature  as required by law, courts would be justified  inmaking	a  finding in favour of the  propounder.   In  otherwords,	the  onus  on  the propounder can  be  taken  to  bedischarged on proof of the essential facts just indicated.There  may, however, be cases in which the execution of	 thewill  may  be surrounded by suspicious	circumstances.	 Thealleged	 signature  of the testator may be  very  shaky	 anddoubtful  and evidence in support of the  propounder's	casethat  the  signature, in question is the  signature  of	 thetestator may not remove the doubt created by the  appearanceof  the signature; the condition of the testator's mind	 mayappear	to  be	very feeble and	 debilitated;  and  evidenceadduced may not succeed in removing the legitimate doubt  asto  the	 mental capacity of the testator;  the	dispositionsmade  in the will may appear to be unnatural, improbable  orunfair in the light of relevant circumstances; or, the	willmay otherwise indicate that the said dispositions may not bethe  result of the testator's free will and mind.   In	suchcases  the court would naturally expect that all  legitimatesuspicions should be completely removed before the  documentis accepted as the last will of the testator.  The  presenceof such suspicious circumstances naturally tends to445make  the  initial  onus  very	heavy;	and,  unless  it  issatisfactorily	discharged,  courts would  be  reluctant  totreat the document as the last will of the testator.  It  istrue  that,  if a caveat is filed alleging the	exercise  ofundue  influence,  fraud  or  coercion	in  respect  of	 theexecution of the will propounded, such pleas may have to  beproved	by  the	 caveators; but,  even	without	 such  pleascircumstances  may raise a doubt as to whether the  testatorwas  acting of his own free will in executing the will,	 andin  such  circumstances, it would be a part of	the  initialonus to remove any such legitimate doubts in the matter.Apart  from  the suspicious circumstances to which  we	havejust  referred, in some cases the wills propounded  discloseanother infirmity.  PrOpounders themselves take a  prominentpart  in  the execution of the wills which  confer  on	themsubstantial  benefits.	If it is shown that  the  propounderhas taken a prominent part in the execution of the will	 andhas  received substantial benefit under it, that  itself  isgenerally treated as a suspicious circumstance attending theexecution  of  the will and the propounder  is	required  toremove	 the  said  suspicion  by  clear  and	satisfactoryevidence.  It is in connection with wills that present	suchsuspicious  circumstances that decisions of  English  courtsoften  mention	the  test of the  satisfaction	of  judicialconscience.   It  may  be that	the  reference	to  judicialconscience  in	this connection is a heritage  from  similarobservations  made by ecclesiastical courts in England	whenthey exercised jurisdiction with reference to wills; but anyobjection  to  the  use of the	word  'conscience'  in	thiscontext	 would,	 in  our opinion, be  purely  technical	 andacademic, if not pedantic.  The test merely emphasizes that,in  determining	 the question as to  whether  an  instrumentproduced before the court is the last will of the  testator,the court is deciding a solemn question and it must be fullysatisfied that it had been validly executed by the  testatorwho is no longer alive.It  is obvious that for deciding material questions of	factwhich  arise  in applications for probate or in	 actions  onwills, no hard and fast or inflexible rules can446be laid down for the appreciation of the evidence.  It	may,however,  be stated generally that a propounder of the	willhas  to	 prove the due and valid execution of the  will	 andthat  if there are any suspicious circumstances	 surroundingthe  execution	of the will the propounder must	 remove	 thesaid  suspicions  from the mind of the court by	 cogent	 andsatisfactory  evidence.	 It is hardly necessary to add	thatthe result of the application of these two general and broadprinciples   would   always  depend  upon  the	 facts	 andcircumstances of each case and on the nature and quality  ofthe evidence adduced by the parties.  It is quite true that,as  observed  by Lord Du Parcq in Harmes v.  Hinkson  (1)  "where  a will is charged with suspicion, the rules enjoin  areasonable  scepticism,	 not  an  obdurate  persistence	  indisbelief.   They  do  not demand from the  judge,  even  incircumstances	of   grave   suspicion,	  a   resolute	 andimpenetrable incredulity.  He is never required to close hismind to the truth ". It would sound platitudinous to say so,but  it is nevertheless true that in discovering truth	evenin  such cases the judicial mind must always be open  thoughvigilant, cautious and circumspect.It  is in the light of these general considerations that  wemust decide whether the appellant is justified in contendingthat  the  finding  of the High Court  against	him  on	 thequestion of the valid execution of the will is justified  ornot.  It may be conceded in favour of the appellant that hisallegation  that  Lakshmamma has put her signatures  on	 thewill at five places is proved ; that no doubt is a point  inhis favour.  It may also be taken as proved that  respondentI has failed to prove that Lakshmamma was unconscious at thetime when the will is alleged to have been executed.  It  istrue she A, as an old woman of 64 years and had been  ailingfor  some  time before the will was executed.  She  was	 notable to get up and leave the bed.  In fact she could sit  upin bed with some difficulty and was so weak that she had  topass  stools in bed.  However, the appellant is entitled  toargue that, on the evidence, the sound and disposing(1)  (1946) 50 C.W.N. 895.447state of mind of Lakshmamma is proved.	Mr Iyengar, for	 theappellant,  has strongly urged before us that,	since  thesefacts  are  established, the court must	 presume  the  validexecution  of the will and in support of his  contention  hehas invited our attention to the relevant statements on	 thepoint in the text books dealing with the subject.  Jarman on" Wills " (1) says that " the general rule is that the	onusprobandi  lies	in every case upon the party  propounding  awill  and he must satisfy the conscience of the	 court	thatthe instrument so propounded is the last will of a free	 andcapable testator'." He adds that, "if a will is rational  onthe  face  of  it, and appears to be duly  executed,  it  ispresumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, to  bevalid."	   Similarly,	Williams   on	"   Executors	 andAdministrators	 "  (2)	 has  observed	that,  "   generallyspeaking, where there is proof of signature, everything elseis implied till the contrary is proved; and evidence of	 thewill   having  been  read  over	 to  the  testator   or	  ofinstructions  having  been given is not necessary."  On	 theother  hand,  Mr. Viswanatha Sastri, for respondent  No.  1,contends  that	the statements on which	 the  appellant	 hasrelied refer to wills which are free from any suspicions andthey  cannot be invoked where the execution of the  will  issurrounded by suspicious circumstances.	 In this connection,it  may	 be pertinent to point out that, in  the  same	textbooks,	 we  find  another  rule  specifically	 mentioned."Although  the  rule  of	 Roman Law  ",	it  is	observed  inWilliams, " that " Qui se scripsit haeredem " could take  nobenefit under a will does not prevail in the law of England,yet,  where  the  person who  prepares	the  instrument,  orconducts  its  execution, is himself benefited by  its	dis-positions,  that is a circumstance which ought generally  toexcite	the  suspicion of the court, and calls on it  to  bevigilant and zealous in examining the evidence in support ofthe instrument in favour of which it ought not to pronounce,unless the suspicion is removed, and(1)  Jarman on " Wills"--Vol. 1, 8th Ed., P. 50.(2)  Williams  on " Executors and  Administrators"--Vol.  1,13th Ed.,P. 92.448it  is judicially satisfied that the paper does express	 thetrue will of the deceased " (1).It  would, therefore, be necessary at this stage  to  decidewhether	 an  execution of the will in the  present  case  issurrounded  by any suspicious circumstances.  Does the	willappear	to  be	on the whole an	 improbable,  unnatural	 andunfair	instrument as held by the High Court?  That  is	 thefirst  question	 which	falls to  be  considered.   We	havealready	 indicated  that the preamble to the  will  containsmany argumentative recitals.  Indeed it would not be  unjustto  say that the preamble purports to meet  by	anticipationthe  main objections which were likely to be raised  to	 thecompetence  of	Lakshmamma to make a will in regard  to	 theproperties  covered  by it.  The preamble  in  great  detailmakes  out  a  case  that the  properties  received  by	 thetestatrix  and	her  husband under the gift  deed  (Ex.	  D)devolved upon her by survivorship after her husband's death,a plea which has not been accepted even by the trial  court.It also seeks to prove that the subsequent purchases made byher  husband  were  in law the	joint  acquisitions  of	 herhusband	 and herself, a point on which the two courts  belowhave  differed.	 It sets out in detail the theory  that	 theson of the testatrix has lost his right, title and  interestin  the properties which devolved on him after his  father'sdeath  because he had alienated more than his share  in	 thesaid  properties during his lifetime; and it  even  suggeststhat during his illness and to help him to build a house  inMysore	the  testatrix	had  advanced  him  money  from	 herseparate funds, pleas which have not been accepted by eithercourt  below.	It seems to us that the elaborate  and	wellconsidered recitals which have been deliberately  introducedin   the   preamble  cannot  possibly  be  the	 result	  ofcorresponding  instructions  given by the testatrix  to	 theappellant  for	preparing  the draft of her  will.   In	 thecontext	 these recitals sound artificial and  unnatural	 andsome  of them at any rate are untrue.  The draftsman of	 thewill  has  tried to be overwise' and that itself is  a	veryserious infirmity in the appellant's case that the(1)  Williams  on " Executors and Administrators  ",  Vol.1,13th Ed.,P. 93.449instrument  represents	the last will and testament  of	 thetestatrix.  Take for instance the statement in the will thatthe  testatrix had advanced Rs. 3,000 to her son  to  enablehim to purchase a house at Mysore.  By itself this is not  amatter	of very great importance; but this detail  has	beenintroduced  in the will in order to make out a	strong	casethat  all  the	properties mentioned in the  will  were	 theseparate  properties of the(, testatrix and so it  would  berelevant  to consider what the appellant himself has to	 sayabout  this recital.  In regard to the Rs. 3,000  in  cross-examination  the  appellant  has  stated  that	Mr.  B.	  G.Ramakrishna  lyengar had sent this amount to the husband  ofrespondent 1 in 1942 or so.  It was sent by cheque on MysoreBank.  The appellant then added that the husband of  respon-dent  1	 had deposited this amount with	 B.  G.	 RamakrishnaIyengar's  father-in-law  after selling	 Goudanahalli  landswith  intent to purchase lands at Mysore; so that the  claimmade in the will that the testatrix bad given this amount toher son out of her separate funds is inaccurate.  The mannerin  which  the several recitals have been made in  the	willamounts	  to  a	 suspicious  circumstance  which   must	  besatisfactorily explained by the appellant.The next circumstance which calls for an explanation is	 theexclusion  of the grand-children of the testtatrix from	 anysubstantial  legacies  under the will.	It is  true  that  abequest of Rs. 500 each is given to them but that can hardlybe  regarded  as fair or just to these	children.   It	was,however,  urged	 by  Mr. lyengar  before  us  that  Narayanalyengar	 had,  during  his  lifetime,  given  lands  to	 hissister's daughters.  He had also spent considerable  amountson  the occasion of their marriages and had given them	eachvaluable  ornaments.  In this connection, he referred us  tocertain documents exhibited under Ex.  I G' and attempted toshow that the lands given to his sisters' daughters were  ofthe  value of Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 2,000 each.  Apart  from	 thefact that the value of these lands is not clearly proved norare the circumstances under which they came to be gifted  tothe donees, we57450do  not	 think it would be possible to accept  the  argumentthat  even  with these gifts the testatrix  would  not	havethought	 of making more substantial bequests to	 her  grand-children.   It is not suggested -that the relations  betweenthe testatrix and these grand-children were not cordial	 andaffectionate  and so it would be reasonable to	assume	thatthey  would have been the objects of her bounties in a	moreliberal measure in ordinary circumstances.There  is  one more point which must be considered  in	thisconnection.   As we have already mentioned  the	 appellant'ssons have received substantial bounties under the will.	 Arethese bequests probable and natural ? It must be  rememberedthat  the  appellant  came  into the  family  of  Annaji  byadoption  long after the testatrix was married.	 The  recorddoes  not show that the testatrix was on  such	affectionateterms  with the appellant that she would have  preferred  tomake  a	 bequest to his sons rather than to her	 own  grand-children.   Indeed  the	 appellant  admitted  that,  at	 therelevant time, he was in straightened circumstances and	 wasindebted  to the extent of nearly, Rs. 30,000; and  it	doesnot   appear   that  when  he  was  faced   with   financialdifficulties of this magnitude he asked for or obtained	 anyassistance  from  his  adoptive sister.	  That	is  why	 thebequests to the appellant's sons also amount to a suspiciouscircumstance   which  must  be	clearly	 explained  by	 theappellant.   We cannot easily reject the argument urged	 on.behalf	of respondent I that the bequests have been made  inthe names of the appellant's sons because, if they had	beenmade  in his own name, the properties bequeathed would	havebeen  attached	and  sold at the instance  of  his  numerouscreditors.  We do not propose to measure precisely the valueof  the properties bequeathed to the appellant's  sons.	  Itwould  be  enough to say that the said bequests	 are  by  nomeans  insignificant  or unsubstantial.	 Therefore,  we	 areunable	to see how the appellant can successfully  challengethe  finding  of  the  High Court that	some  of  the  broadfeatures of the will appear to be improbable and unfair; andif  that  be  so,  the appellant will  have  to	 remove	 thesuspicions arising451from  these  features before he can persuade  the  court  toaccept the instrument as the last will and testamentof the testatrix.In this connection it is necessary to bear in mind that	 theappellant  whose  sons have received the said  bequests	 hasadmittedly taken a very prominent part in bringing about theexecution of the will.	He has prepared the draft and it wasat his dictation that the  scribe wrote the will.  Indeed onthe important question as to when and how instructions	weregiven  by the testatrix and whether or not in preparing	 thedraft  those instructions have been faithfully carried	out,the  only  evidence  adduced  in the case  is  that  of	 theappellant and no one else.  Thus, the very important, if notthe decisive, part played by the appellant in the  executionof the will cannot at all be disputed in the present case.Mr. Iyengar, for the appellant, strenuously contended  that,in  deciding whether the suspicions attending the  executionof the will have been removed or not, it would be  necessaryto  remember that the whole of the relevant evidence is	 allone  way  and  there  is no  evidence  in  rebuttal  led  byrespondent  1. His argument is that the evidence adduced  bythe  appellant	is satisfactory and the	 conclusion  of	 thetrial  court  which  was well-founded  need  not  have	beenreversed  by the High Court.  In support of  this  argument,Mr.  lyengar referred us to several judicial  decisions	 andsuggested that we should consider the evidence in the  lightof these decisions.  According to him, these decisions wouldafford	 us   considerable  assistance	 and   guidance	  inappreciating the evidence in the present case.	That is	 whywe  would now briefly refer to some of the  decisions  citedbefore us.According  to the decisions in Fulton v. Andrew	 (1)  "thosewho take a benefit under a will, and have been	instrumentalin preparing or obtaining it, have thrown upon them the onusof  showing the righteousness of the transaction ". "  Thereis  however no unyielding rule of law (especially where	 theingredient of fraud enters into the case) that, when it	 hasbeen(1)  [1875) L.R. 7 H. L- 448.452proved	that a testator, competent in mind, has had  a	willread over to him, and has thereupon executed it, all furtherenquiry	 is shut out ". In this case, the  Lord	 Chancellor,Lord   Cairns,	has  cited  with  approval  the	  well-knownobservations  of Baron Parke in the case of Barry v.  Butlin(1).   The  two rules of law set out by Baron Parke  are:  "first,	that the onus probandi	lies in every case upon	 theparty	propounding  a	will;  and  lie	 must  satisfy	 theconscience of the court that the instrument so propounded isthe  last will of a free and capable testator"; "the  secondis,  that, if a party writes or prepares a will under  whichhe  takes  a  benefit, that is	a  circumstance	 that  oughtgenerally  to  excite the suspicion of the court  and  callsupon it to be vigilant and zealous in examining the evidencein support of the instrument in favour of which it ought notto  pronounce  unless the suspicion is removed,	 and  it  isjudicially satisfied that the paper propounded does  expressthe  true will of the deceased ". It is hardly necessary  toadd  that the statement of these two rules has now  attainedthe  status of a classic on the subject and it is  cited  byall  text books on wills.  The will propounded in this	casewas  directed  to be tried at the Assizes by  the  Court  ofProbate.  It was tried on six issues.  The first four issuesreferred to the sound and disposing state of the  testator'smind and the fifth to his knowledge and approval of the con-tents of the will.  The sixth was whether the testator	knewand  approved  of  the residuary clause; and  by  this	lastclause	the propounders of the will were made the  residuarylegatees and were appointed executors.	Evidence was led  atthe  trial and the judge asked the opinion of the jurors  onevery one of the issues.  The jurors found in favour of	 thepropounders  on the first five issues and in favour  of	 theopponents  oil the sixth.  It appears that no leave  to	 setaside  the  verdict and enter judgment for  the	 propoundersnotwithstanding the verdict on the sixth issue was reserved;but  when the case came before the Court of Probate  a	rulewas  obtained to set aside the verdict generally and have  anew trial or to set aside the verdict on the(1)  [1838] 2 Moo.  P.C. 480,482.453sixth  issue for misdirection.	It was in dealing  with	 themerits of the finding on the sixth issue that the true legalposition  came to be considered by the House of Lords.	 Theresult of the decision was that the rule obtained for a	 newtrial  was discharged, the order of the Court of Probate  ofthe  whole will was reversed and the matter was remitted  tothe Court of Probate to do what was right with regard to thequalified pro. bate of the will.The  same  principle  was emphasized by	 the  Privy  Councilin:Vellasawmy  Servai v. Sivaraman Servai (1), where it	 washeld  that,  where  a  will  is	 propounded  by	 the   chiefbeneficiary under it, who has taken a leading part in givinginstructions  for  its	preparation  and  in  procuring	 itsexecution, probate should not be granted unless the evidenceremoves	 suspicion  and	 clearly proves	 that  the  testatorapproved the will.In  Sarat Kumari Bibi v. Sakhi Chand (2), the Privy  Councilmade  it  clear	 that " the  principle	which  requires	 thepropounder  to remove suspicions from the mind of the  Courtis  not	 confined only to cases where the  propounder  takespart in the execution of the will and receives benefit underit.   There may be other suspicious circumstances  attendingon  the execution of the will and even in such cases  it  isthe duty of the propounder to remove all clouds and. satisfythe  conscience of the court that the instrument  propoundedis the last will of the testator." This view is supported bythe  observations  made	 by Lindley and Davey,	L.  JJ.,  inTyrrell v. Painton (3).	 " The rule in Barry v. Butlin	(4),Fulton v. Andrew (5) and Brown v. Fisher (6), said  Lindley,L.  J., " is not in my mind confined to the single  case  inwhich the will is prepared by or on the instructions of	 theperson	taking	large benefits under it but extends  to	 allcases	in  which  circumstances  exist	 which	excite	 thesuspicions of the court."In Rash Mohini Dasi v. Umesh Chunder Biswas(1)   (1929) L.R 57 I.A. 96.(3)   [1894] P. 151, 157, 159.(5)  (1875) L.R. 7 H. L. 448.(2)  (1928) L.R. 56 I.A. 62.(4)  [1838] 2 MOO.  P. C. 480, 482.(6    (1890) 63 L.T. 465.(7)   (1898) L.R. 25 I.A. 109.454it  appeared that though the will was fairly simple and	 notvery long the making of it was from first to last the  doingof  Khetter, the manager and trusted adviser of the  allegedtestator.  No previous or independent intention of making  awill   was  shown  and	the,  evidence	that  the   testatorunderstood the business in which his adviser engaged him wasnot  sufficient	 to justify the-grant of probate.   In	thiscase the application for probate made by the widow of  MohimChunder	 Biswas was opposed on the ground that the  testatorwas  not  in  a sound and disposing state of  mind  at	the,material  time and he could not have understood	 the  natureand  effect of its contents.  The will had been admitted  tothe  probate  by the District Judge but the High  Court	 hadreversed the said order.  In confirming the view of the HighCourt  the Privy Council made the observations to  which  wehave just referred.The  case of Shama Charn Kundu v. Khettromoni Dasi  (1),  onthe  other  hand, was the case of a will  the  execution  ofwhich  was  held  to be not  surrounded	 by  any  suspiciouscircumstances.	 Shama	Charn, the propounder of  the  will,claimed to be the adopted son of the testator.	He and threeothers	were appointed executors of the will.  The  testatorleft no natural son but two daughters and his widow.  By hiswill  the  adopted son obtained	 substantial  benefit.	 Theprobate of the will with the exception of the last paragraphwas  granted  to  Shama Charn by the trial  judge;  but,  onappeal the application for probate was dismissed by the HighCourt  on  the ground that the suspicions attending  on	 theexecution of the will had not been satisfactorily removed byShama  Charn.	The matter was then taken before  the  PrivyCouncil;  and their Lordships held that, since the  adoptionof Shama Charn was proved, the fact that he took part in theexecution  of the will and obtained benefit under it  cannotbe  regarded as a suspicious circumstance so as	 to  attractthe rule laid down by Lindley, L. J., in Tyrrell v.  Painton(2).   In  Bai Gungabai v. Bhugwandas Valji.(3),  the  PrivyCouncil	 had  to  deal with a will  which  was	admitted  toprobate by the first court, but on appeal(1) (1899) I.L.R. 27 Cal. 522.	(2) [1894] P. 151, 157, 159.(3) (1905) I.L.R. 29 Bom. 530.455the order was varied by excluding therefrom certain passageswhich referred to the deed-poll executed on the same day  bythe  testator and to the remuneration of the  solicitor	 whoprepared the will and was appointed an executor and  trusteethereof.  The Privy Council held that " the onus was on	 thesolicitor  to  satisfy the court that the  passages  omittedexpressed  the true will of the deceased and that the  courtshould be diligent and zealous in examining the evidence  inits support, but that on a consideration of the whole of theevidence  (as  to  which  no  rule  of	law  prescribed	 theparticular  kind required) and of the circumstances  of	 thecase the onus was discharged ". In dealing with the questionas  to	whether	 the testator was aware	 that  the  passagesexcluded by the appeal court from the probate formed part ofthe  instrument,  the Privy Council  examined  the  evidencebearing	 on the point and the probabilities.  In  conclusiontheir  Lordships differed from the view of the appeal  courtthat there had been a complete failure of the proof that thedeed-poll  correctly  represented  the	intentions  of	 thetestator  or that he understood or approved of its  contentsand so they thought that there were no grounds for excludingfrom the probate the passages in the will which referred  tothat  deed.  They, however, observed that it would no  doubthave  been more prudent and business-like to  have  obtainedthe  services of some independent witnesses who	 might	havebeen trusted to see that the testator fully understood	whathe  was doing and to have secured independent evidence	thatclause	26  in	particular  was	 called	 to  the  testator'sattention.  Even so, their Lordships expressly added that incoming	to the conclusion which they had done they must	 notbe  understood	as  throwing  the  slightest  doubt  on	 theprinciples  laid  down	in Fulton v. Andrew  (1)  and  othersimilar cases referred to in the argument.In  Perera v. Perera (2) it was held that when the  testatoris  of sound mind when he gives instructions for a will	 butat  the	 time of signature accepts the instrument  drawn  inpursuance thereof without being able(1) (1875) L.R. 7 H.L. 448.	   (2) [1901] A.C. 354.456to  follow its provisions, he must be deemed to be of  soundmind when it is executed.  The will of Perera with which thecourt was concerned in this case was signed with a cross  bythe  testator in the presence of five witnesses	 present  atthe  same time who duly subscribed the will in the  presenceof  the	 testator.   The Notary Public was  also  among	 thepersons	 present  but  he  did	not  attest  the  will.	  Noobjection  was taken in the court of first instance on	thisground, but, in the court of appeal, the said objection	 wasraised	and  it was held that the will was  invalid  on	 theground that though the Notary Public was present he had	 notattested  the  instrument.  The case was then taken  to	 theSupreme	  Court	 in  its  collective  capacity	 on   reviewpreparatory to an appeal to Her Majesty.  The Supreme  Courtreversed  the  judgment under appeal and then  proceeded  todetermine  the	case  on the merits.  The court	 held  by  amajority  decision  that  the  testator	 was  of  sound	 anddisposing  state  of  mind and restored	 the  order  of	 theprimary	 judge.	 Against this decision there was an  appeal.In  this case, the evidence about the instructions given  bythe testator was very clear; and there was not the slightestreason for disbelieving the statement of Gooneratne that  hehad drawn the will faithfully in accordance with the detailsof  instructions given to him.	The will prepared  from	 thesaid instructions seemed to be fair and just disposition  ofthe testator's property.  There was no concealment about thepreparation  of	 the will.  The instructions were  given  onJune 1 and it was in the evening of June 4 that the will wasbrought to the testator for execution.	It is on these factsthat  it was held, following the observations of  Sir  JamesHannen	in Parker v. Felgate (1) that if a person has  giveninstructions to a solicitor to make a will and the solicitorprepares it in accordance with those instructions, all	thatis  necessary  to  make it a good will if  executed  by	 thetestator is that he should be able to think thus far: " If Igave  my  solicitor instructions to prepare  a	will  makingcertain dispositions about my property I have no doubt	thathe has given effect to my intention and I(1)  [1883] 8 P.D. 171.457accept	the document which is put before me as	carrying  itout  ". We would again like to emphasize that  the  evidenceabout  the instructions was very clear and definite in	thiscase and it was also clearly established that the will whichwas just and fair was executed faithfully in accordance withthe said instructions given by the testator.  In such a casewhether or not the will should be admitted to probate  woulddepend	upon the opinion which the court may form  about therelevant evidence adduced in support of the will.  It  wouldbe difficult to deduce any principle from this decision	 andto  seek  to apply it to other cases  without  reference  totheir facts.The  last  case	 to  which reference must  be  made  is	 thedecision  of the Privy Council in Harmes v. Hinkson  (1)  Itappears that, in this case, the testator George Harmes	diedin the city of Regina on April 4, 1941.	 Two days later	 Mr.Hinkson brought to the manager of the Canada Permanent TrustCompany	 at its office in Regina a document which  purportedto  be the will of the said Harmes.  It was dated  April  3,1941,  and named the Trust Company as executor.	  Under	 thewill Mr. Hinkson by a devise and bequest of the residue	 wasto benefit to a sum of more than pound 50,000.	Mr.  Hinksonwas  by profession a barrister and solicitor and  had  drawnthe will with no witness present until after the body of thedocument  was complete.	 Then two nurses were called  in  towitness	 its  due  execution.	The  learned  judge  of	 theSurrogate Court, after a lengthy trial affirmed the will anddecreed	 probate in solemn form.  On appeal, by a  majority'decision  the order of the trial court was  reversed.	Thenthere  was a further appeal to the Supreme Court of  Canada.It was heard by five learned judges.  By a majority (Hudson,J., alone dissenting) the appeal was allowed and the  decreeof the Surrogate Court was restored.  Against this  decisionthe  appellant	obtained  special leave	 to  appeal  to	 HisMajesty-in-Council  and	 it was urged on  his  behalf  that,since  the  document  was charged with	suspicion  from	 theoutset, probate(1)  (1946) 50 C.W.N. 895.58458should not have been granted to the respondent Hinkson.	 ThePrivy  Council did not accept this contention and  dismissedthe  appeal.   It  was	in  dealing  with  the	 appellant'scontention about the suspicions surrounding the execution ofthe  will that Lord Du Parcq made the observations which  wehave  already  quoted.	Prima facie the facts on  which	 theappellant  relied were strong enough; but the question whichaccording  to  their  Lordships fell to be  decided  in	 theappeal was whether the learned trial judge's decision on thefacts  was  erroneous and so manifestly	 erroneous  that  anappellate court ought to set it aside.	Their Lordships thenreferred  with	approval to the principles  which  had	beenfrequently enunciated as to the respect which the  appellatecourt  ought  to pay to the opinion which a  Judge  who	 haswatched	 and listened to the witness has formed as to  theircredibility  (Powell  v. Streatham  ManoR  Nursing  Home(1).Their Lordships then briefly referred to the evidence led inthe  case  and	observed that it  was  impossible  for	themjudging	 only  from the printed page to decide	between	 thevarious	 opinions  of  Mr.  Hinkson's  character  which	 itsperusal may leave open for acceptance by different minds. Inthe result they came to the conclusion in agreement with theSupreme	 Court that the trial court's decision on the  factsmust  stand.  It would thus be noticed that the decision  ofthe Privy Council proceeded more on the basis that there wasno  justification  for interfering with a  finding  of	factrecorded  by  the  trial judge particularly  when  the	said,finding rested on his appreciation of the evidence given byseveral	 witnesses  before him.	 In this  connection  it  issignificant  to	 note that the allegation of  the  appellantthat  Mr.  Hinkson  had exercised  undue  influence  on	 thetestator  was  repelled	 by  the  Privy	 Council  with	 theobservation that their acceptance of the judge's findings offact leaves them no alternative but to reject it.  Thus thisdecision  merely serves to illustrate the  importance  whichthe  Privy Council attached to the finding of fact  recordedby the trial court in this case.(1)  [1935] A.C. 243.459It  is	in the light of these decisions that  the  appellantwants  us to consider the evidence which he has	 adduced  inthe present case.  It would be convenient to begin with	 theappellant's  story  about  the	instructions  given  by	 thetestatrix  for	preparing  the	will.	In  the	 plaint	 theappellant  has	referred  to  the  sudden  illness  of	 thetestatrix at Mandya and it is alleged that when she took illthe  testatrix	sent for him with the obvious  intention  ofmaking	arrangements regarding her properties.	 Accordinglywhen  he met her at Mandya she explained all her  intentionsto him in the matter of disposing all her properties and herrights	thereto.  In other words, the case made out  in	 theplaint	clearly and specifically is that when the  testatrixwas  ill at Mandya she sent for the appellant and  gave	 himinstructions  for preparing a draft of her  will.   However,when  the  appellant  gave  evidence  he  made	a   materialimprovement  in his story.  According to his  evidence,	 theappellant  had	received instructions from the	testatrix  ayear before the will was actually drafted.  It was then thatthe testatrix had given him the gift deed (Ex.	D) and askedhim  to	 prepare  the draft.   Consistently  with  this	 newversion the appellant has added in his evidence that when hemet  her at Mandya during her illness she reminded him	thatshe had asked him to make a will for quite some time and sheinsisted  that	the  draft should be  prepared	without	 anydelay.	In our opinion, the evidence given by the  appellanton this point is clearly an after-thought and his story thathe had received previous instructions cannot be accepted  astrue.  Besides, it is somewhat remarkable that, on both	 theoccasions  when	 the testatrix talked to the  appellant	 andgave instructions to him no one else was present; and so theproof  of this part of the appellant's case rests solely  onhis  own testimony.  If the testatrix had really thought  ofmaking	a  will	 for  over a year  before  it  was  actuallyexecuted,  it  is unlikely that she would  not	have  talkedabout it to other relatives including Kalbagal with whom shewas actually staying at the material time.Then it would be necessary to enquire whether the460draft  which the appellant prepared was consistent with	 theinstructions  alleged to have been given by  the  testatrix.The draft, however, has not been produced in the case on theplea  that  it had been destroyed; nor	is  it	specificallystated	by the appellant that this draft was read out  fullyto the testatrix before be dictated the contents of the willto  the scribe.	 Thus  even the interested testimony of	 theappellant  does	 not show that be obtained approval  of	 thedraft  from the testatrix after reading it out fully to	 herclause by clause.  It is common ground that Mandya where thetestatrix  was lying ill is a place where the assistance  oflocal  lawyers	would  have been easily	 available;  and  inordinary course the testatrix would have talked to  Kalbagaland the appellant and they would have secured the assistanceof  the lawyers for drafting the will; but that is not	whatthe appellant did.  He went to Mysore and if his evidence isto  be	believed  he prepared the draft	 without  any  legalassistance.   Having  regard to the nature of  the  recitalscontained in the will it is not easy to accept this part  ofthe  appellant's  case.	 Besides, as we have  already  indi-cated,	we  find  great difficulty  in	believing  that	 theelaborate  recitals  could  have  been	the  result  of	 theinstructions given by the testatrix herself.It  is in the light of these circumstances that	 the  directevidence  about	 the  execution	 of  the  will	has  to	  beconsidered.  The evidence of P. W. I is really	inconclusiveon  the point about the execution of the will.	 Apart	fromthe  fact  that	 he had no clear  recollection	as  to	whathappened on the day when he attested the will, this  witnesshas  frankly  stated  that he  could  not  state  definitelywhether	 the  whole  of the document was read  over  to	 thetestatrix before he put the attesting signature; and it	 wasnaturally  of very great importance in this case to  producesatisfactory  evidence	that the will was read	out  to	 thetestatrix  and she understood the nature and effect  of	 itscontents.  On this point even if P.W. I is believed it	doesnot  help  the	appellant's case.  The evidence	 of  P.W.  2cannot carry much weight because his main story that he	 waspresent at the time when the will461was  written is wholly inconsistent with the evidence of  P.Ws.  3, 4 and 7. That leaves the evidence of the scribe	 andthe  appellant	himself.   The scribe (P.W.  3)	 is  a	nearrelation of Kalbagal and even he does not at all support theappellant's   case  about  previous   instruction   because,according to him, the testatrix said that she would agree towhatever  the  appellant would get  written.   The  relevantevidence  of this witness is clearly inconsistent  with	 theappellant's case about previous instructions and so it wouldbe difficult to treat the evidence of this witness as suffi-cient  to  prove  that the testatrix  fully  understood	 thenature of the recitals in the preamble and the effect of thedispositions before she put her signature to the will.	 Theevidence  of  the  appellant (P.W. 7)  cannot  obviously  beuseful	because it is the evidence of an interested  witnessand  is	 besides not very satisfactory.	 On  behalf  of	 theappellant  it  was urged before us by Mr. Iyengar  that	 theevidence  of Kalbagal (P.  W. 4) is disinterested and so  itshould be believed.  That also appears to be the view  takenby  the trial court.  In our opinion, however, it would	 notbe   right  or	correct	 to  describe  Kalbagal	 as   whollydisinterested.	Respondent No. 5 who is the step-brother  ofKalbagal and who stays with him in the same house along withtheir  father  has admittedly received	substantial  benefitunder  the  will.   If an undivided brother of	P.W.  4	 hasreceived  this benefit it would not be accurate to say	thatthe  witness is wholly disinterested.  Besides,	 it  appearsfrom the evidence of Kalbagal that he knew nothing about theexecution  of the will until the appellant asked him to	 getsome  attesting witnesses for the will.	 This evidence	doesnot  strike  us as natural or probable; but apart  from	 it,even  Kalbagal's evidence does not show satisfactorily	thatthe  will was read out to the testatrix so as to enable	 herto  understand its full effect before it was signed by	her.That  is the whole of the evidence led by the  appellant  onthe question of the execution of the will.  On this evidencewe are not prepared to hold that the High Court was in errorin  coming to the conclusion that it was not shown that	 thetestatrix fully462understood the contents of the will and put her signature onthe   instrument  intending  that  the	recitals   and	 thedispositions  in  the  will  should  be	 her  recitals	 anddispositions.In  this  connection we would like to add that	the  learnedtrial  judge  appears  to have misdirected  himself  in	 lawinasmuch  as he thought that the proof of the  signature  ofthe testatrix on the will raised a presumption that the willhad  been  executed  by her.  In support of  this  view	 thelearned	 judge has referred to the decision of the  CalcuttaHigh  Court  in	 Surendra Nath Chatterji  v.  Jahnavi  CharnMukerji (1).  In this case no doubt the Calcutta High  Courthas held that on the proof of the signature of the  deceasedor his acknowledgment that he has signed the will he will bepresumed  to have known the provisions of the instrument  hehas  signed; but Mr. Justice B. B. Ghose, in  his  judgment,has  also  added that the said presumption is liable  to  berebutted  by  proof  of suspicious  circumstances  and	thatundoubtedly is the true legal position.	 What  circumstanceswould be regarded as suspicious cannot be precisely  definedor  exhaustively  enumerated.  That inevitably	would  be  aquestion  of fact in each case.	 Unfortunately	the  learnedtrial judge did not properly assess the effect of suspiciouscircumstances  in the present case to which we have  alreadyreferred and that has introduced a serious infirmity in	 hisfinal  conclusion.   Incidentally we may also refer  to	 thefact  that the appellant obtained a power of  attorney	fromthe  testatrix on the same day ; and that has given rise  tothe   argument	that  the  appellant  was  keen	 on   takingpossession  and	 management  of	 the  properties  under	 hiscontrol	 even before the death of the testatrix.   There  isalso another circumstance which may be mentioned and that isthat  the SubRegistrar, in whose presence the  document	 wasregistered on the same day, has not been examined though  hewas alive at the date of the trial.  On these facts then  weare  inclined to hold that the High Court was  justified  inreversing the finding of the trial court oil the question ofthe due and valid execution of the will.(1)  (1928) I.L.R., 56 Cal. 390.463Before we part with this case, however, we would like to addthat  the  High	 Court was not justified  in  recording	 itsfindings  on two other issues in the present appeal.  As  wehave  already indicated, the High Court itself has  observedthat, once it was held that the will had not been proved  bythe  appellant, no other issue survived for decision.	Evenso,  the High Court has expressed its conclusions in  favourof res-pondent I on the question about the character of	 thesubsequent  acquisitions of items 3, 4 and 5 and  about	 thesubsisting  title  of the testatrix in respect	of  all	 theproperties  covered  by	 the will.   Having  regard  to	 therelationship  between the parties it is difficult to  under-stand  how  mere entries in the revenue record made  in	 thename   of   Sadagopalachar  or	the   long   possession	  ofSadagopalachar and, after his death, of Narayana lyengar canprove  the transfer of Lakshmamma's title or its  extinctionby adverse possession respectively.  It is apparent that, inrecording these conclusions, the High Court has not fully orproperly   considered	all  the  relevant   evidence;	 andconsequently,  the reasons given by it are open	 to  seriouschallenge  on the merits.  Indeed Mr. Viswanatha Sastri	 didnot appear to be inclined to support the said findings.	  Wedo  not, however, propose to decide these questions  on	 themerits	because in view of our conclusion on  the  principalissue  it is unnecessary to consider any other	points.	  Wewould,	therefore, like to make it clear that the  said	 twoissues	are not decided in the present proceedings  and	 mayhave to be considered afresh between the parties if and whenthey arise.The  result  is the appeal fails and must be  dismissed	 butthere will be no order as to costs in this Court.			 Appeal dismissed.464