PETITIONER:THE GODAVARI SUGAR MILLS LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:SHRI D. K. WORLIKARDATE OF JUDGMENT:14/03/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1960 AIR  842		  1960 SCR  (3) 305 CITATOR INFO : E	    1966 SC 925	 (9) RF	    1972 SC1589	 (14)ACT:Industrial Dispute-Notification-Construction-Head office  ofSugar  Industry,  if within  its  purview-Bombay  IndustrialRelations Act, 1946 (Bom. 11 of 1947), S.  2(4)-NotificationNo. 1131-46 of 1952.HEADNOTE:The respondent, a stenographer employed by the appellant  atits head office in Bombay, challenged the legality and	pro-priety	of  the	 dismissal order passed against	 him  by  anapplication  under the provisions of the  Bombay  IndustrialRelations Act, 1946, and contended that the Notification No.1131-46 issued by the Government of Bombay in 1952 under  S.2(4)  of  the said Act brought within its purview  the	headoffice of the appellant which was dealing in Sugar Industry.The  appellant challenged the competency of the	 applicationon the ground that the Act did not apply to the respondent'scase  and  the	Labour	Court had  no  jurisdiction  as	 theNotification  did  not	apply  to the  head  office  of	 theappellant:Held, that on a proper construction of the Notification,  itcannot	be  said that the Government of Bombay	intended  toextend the scope of the Notification to the head office of aSugar  Industry.  The Notification did not bring within	 itspurview	 the sugar industry as such but the  manufacture  ofsugar  and its by-products, the object being to confine	 itsbenefits  to service or employment which was connected	withthe  manufacture of sugar and its by-products including	 thegrowing	 of sugar canes and all agricultural and  industrialoperations connected with the growing of sugarcane.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 425 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the Decision dated October  9,1956  of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India, Bombay,  inAppeal (Bom.) No. 111 of 1956.M.   C.	 Setalvad, Attorney-General of India, S. N.  Andley,J. B.  Dadachanji, Rameshwar Nath and P.     L.	 Vohra,	 forthe appellants.M. S. K. Sastri, for the respondent.1960.  March 15.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR,	 J.--This appeal by special leave  raises  ashort  question about the construction of  the	notificationNo.  1131-46 issued by the Government of Bombay on  October,4,  1952, under s. 2(4) of the Bombay  Industrial  RelationsAct,  1946 (Bom. 11 of 1947) (hereinafter called  the  Act).The respondent,306who  was  a  stenographer employed  by	the  appellant,	 theGodavari Sugar Mills Ltd., at its head office in Bombay	 wasdismissed  by the appellant on April 22, 1955.	He had	beenworking as a stenographer for some years past on a salary ofRs.  135 plus Rs. 27 as dearness allowance.  He was  chargedwith	having	 committed   acts   of	 disobedience	 andinsubordination,  and  after a proper enquiry where  he	 wasgiven an opportunity to defend himself, he was found  guiltyof  the	 alleged misconduct; that is why his  services	wereterminated ; that is the appellant's case.The respondent challenged the legality and propriety of	 hisdismissal  by  an  application before the  Labour  Court  atBombay; he purported to make this application under s. 42(4)read  with  s.	78 (1) (a) (i) and (iii) of  the  Act.	 Theappellant   in	reply  challenged  the	competence  of	 theapplication on the ground that the Act did not apply to	 therespondent's   case,  and  so  the  Labour  Court   had	  nojurisdiction to entertain it.  Both the parties agreed	thatthe  question of jurisdiction thus raised by  the  appellantshould	be tried as a preliminary issue; and so	 the  LabourCourt considered the said objection and upheld it.  It	heldthat  the notification in question on which  the  respondentrelied did not apply to the head office of the appellant  atBombay;	  accordingly	the  Labour  Court   dismissed	 therespondent's  application.   The respondent  challenged	 thecorrectness of this decision by preferring an appeal  beforethe Industrial Court.  His appeal, however, failed since theIndustrial  Court agreed with the Labour.  Court in  holdingthat  the notification did not apply to the head  office  ofthe appellant.	The matter was then taken by the  respondentbefore	the  Labour  Appellate Tribunal and  this  time	 therespondent  succeeded, the Labour Appellate Tribunal  havingheld  that the notification applied to the head	 office	 andthat the respondent was entitled to claim the benefit of theprovisions of the Act.	On this finding the Labour AppellateTribunal set aside the order passed by the courts below	 andremanded  the case to the Labour Court for disposal  on	 themerits	in accordance with law.	 It is this order which	 hasgiven rise to the present appeal and the only question whichit 307raises	for  our  decision is whether  the  notification  inquestion  applies  to the head office of  the  appellant  atBombay.The  Act has been passed by the Bombay Legislature in  orderto  regulate relations of employers and employees,  to	makeprovision  for	settlement of indus- trial disputes  and  toprovide	 for certain other purposes.  It has made  elaborateprovisions  in	order  to  carry out  its  object,  and	 hasconferred  some	 benefits on the employees  in	addition  tothose  which  have  been conferred on them  by	the  CentralIndustrial Disputes Act, XIV of 1947.  Under s. 42(4) of theAct, for instance, an employee desiring a change in  respectof  any order passed by the employer under  standing  orderscan  make an application to the Labour Court in that  behalfsubject	 to the proviso which it is unnecessary to set	out.Section	 78(1)(a)(iii) requires the Labour Court  to  decidewhether	 any  change made by an employer or  desired  by  anemployee should be made.  An order of dismissal passed by anemployer  can,	therefore,  be challenged  by  the  employeedirectly by an application before the Labour Court under theAct,  whereas  under  the Central Act  a  complaint  againstwrongful dismissal can become an industrial dispute only  ifit is sponsored by the relevant union or taken up by a groupof employees and is referred to the industrial tribunal	 foradjudication  under s. 10 of the Act  Since  the  respondentclaims a special benefit under the Act he contends that	 hiscase falls under the notification.  It is common ground thatif  the notification applies to the case of  the  respondentthe  application  made by him to the Labour Court  would  becompetent and would have to be considered on the merits;  onthe other hand, if the said notification does not apply thenthe  application  is incompetent and must  be  dismissed  inlimine on that ground.Let us now read the notification.  It has been issued by theGovernment of Bombay in exercise of the powers conferred  onit  by s. 2, sub-s. (4), of the Act, and in supersession  ofan  earlier  notification,  and	 it  provides  that  "	 theGovernment  of	Bombay	is pleased to direct  that  all	 theprovisions of the said Act shall308apply  to the following industry, viz., the  manufacture  ofsugar  and  its	 by-products Including (1)  the	 growing  ofsugarcane  on  farms belonging to or  attached	to  concernsengaged	 in the said manufacture, and (2)  all	agriculturaland  industrial	 operations connected with  the	 growing  ofsugarcane or the said manufacture, engaged in such concerns.Note:  For the purposes of this notification all service  oremployment connected with the conduct of the above  industryshall  be deemed to be part of the industry when engaged  inor by an employer engaged in that industry ".It is significant that the notification applies not to sugarindustry as such but to the manufacture of sugar and its by-products.   If	the expression " sugar industry "  had	beenused it would have been possible to construe that expressionin  a broader sense having regard to the wide definition  ofthe word " industry " prescribed in s. 2(19) of the Act; butthe  notification  has	deliberately  adopted  a   differentphraseology and has brought within its purview not the sugarindustry  as such but the manufacture of sugar and  its	 by-products.  Unfortunately the Labour Appellate  Tribunal	 hasread  the  notification as though it referred to  the  sugarindustry  as  such.   That is a	 serious  infirmity  in	 thedecision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal.Besides,  the inclusion of the two items specified  in	cls.(1) and (2) is also significant.  Section 2(19)(b)(i)  showsthat  "	 industry " includes  agriculture  and	agriculturaloperations.   Now, if the manufacture of sugar and  its	 by-products  had  the  same meaning  as  the  expression  sugarindustry, then the two items added by cls. (1) and (2) wouldhave  been included in the said expression by virtue of	 thedefinition  of " industry " itself and the addition  of	 thetwo clauses would have been superfluous.  The fact that	 thetwo items have been included specifically clearly  indicatesthat  the  first  part of the notification  would  not	haveapplied	 to them, and it is with a view to extend the  scopeof the said clause that the inclusive words introducing	 thetwo items have been used.  This fact also shows the  limitedinterpretation	which  must  be	 put  on  the  words  "	 themanufacture of sugar and its by-products309It is true that the note added to the notification  purportsto  include within the scope of the notification some  casesof   service  and  employment  by  the,	  deeming   process.Unfortunately  the  last  clause in the	 note  is  unhappilyworded and it is difficult to understand what exactly it wasintended to mean.  Even so, though by the first part of	 thenote  some' kinds of service or employment are deemed to  bepart of the industry in question by virtue of the fact	thatthey  are connected with the conduct of the  said  industry,the  latter part of the note requires that the said  serviceor  employment	must  be engaged in that  industry.   It  ispossible that the workers engaged in manuring or a clerk  inthe  manure depot which is required to issue manure  to	 theagricultural farm which grows sugarcane may for instance  beincluded  within the scope of the notification by virtue  ofthe note; but it is difficult to see how the respondent, whois  an employee in the head office at Bombay, can claim	 thebenefit	 of  this note.	 The addition made  by	the  deemingclause on the strength of the connection of certain servicesand  employments  with the conduct of the industry  is	alsocontrolled  by	the requirement that the  said	services  oremployments  must  be  engaged	in  that  industry  so	thatconnection   with  the	industry  has  nevertheless  to	  beestablished   before  the  note	 can  be  applied   to	 therespondent.It  has	 been  urged  before  us  by  Mr.  Sastri,  for	 therespondent,  that  at  the head	 office	 there	is  accountsdepartment,  the  establishment	 section,  stores   purchasesection	 and legal department, and he pointed out  that	 themachinery  which is purchased for the industry is landed  atBombay, received by the head office and is then sent to	 thefactories.   In fact the factories and the offices  attachedto   them  are	situated  at  Lakshmiwadi   and	  Sakharwadirespectively and are separated by hundreds of miles from thehead office at Bombay.	The fact that the machinery requiredat  the factories is received at the head office and has  tobe  forwarded  to the respective factories cannot,  in,	 ouropinion,  assist the respondent in contending that the	headoffice	itself	and  all the employees engaged	in  it	fallwithin the note to the notification.  The object of the40310notification appears to be to confine its benefit to serviceor  employment	which is connected with the  manufacture  ofsugar and its by-products including the two items  specifiedin cl. (1) and cl. (2)	Subsidiary services such as those wehave indicated are also included by virtue of the note;	 butin  our opinion it is difficult to extend the scope  of	 thenotification  to the head office of the appellant.  We	mustaccordingly hold that the Labour-Appellate Tribunal erred inlaw in holding that the case of the respondent was  governedby the notification.Incidentally  we  would	 like  to  add	that  the  registrarappointed under s. 11 of the Act has consistently refused torecognise  the staff of the head office as coming under	 thenotification,  and it is common ground that  the  consistentpractice in the matter so far is against the plea raised  bythe respondent.	 It is perfectly true that in construing thenotification the prevailing practice can have no  relevance;but if after construing the notification we come to the con-clusion	 that the head office is outside the purview of	 thenotification  it  would not be irrelevant to  refer  to	 theprevailing practice which happens to be consistent with	 theconstruction we have placed on the notification.  It appearsthat  in  the courts below reference was made to  a  similarnotification issued in respect of textile industry under  s.2,  sub-s.  (3)	 of  the  Act  and  the	 relevant  decisionsconstruing  the	 said notification were cited.	 We  do	 notthink  any useful purpose will be served by considering	 thesaid notification and the decisions thereunder.In the result the appeal is allowed, the order passed by theLabour Appellate Tribunal is set aside and the	respondent'sapplication  is	 dismissed.  There will be no  order  as  tocosts.					   Appeal allowed.311