PETITIONER:RAJA SRI SAILENDRA NARAYANBHANJA DEO	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF ORISSA.DATE OF JUDGMENT:03/02/1956BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJANBENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJANBHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.JAGANNADHADAS, B.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.CITATION: 1956 AIR  346		  1956 SCR   72ACT:Estates Abolition-'Estate', Meaning of-Estoppel by  Judgment-Test-Respondent,  if can rely on grounds not  specified  inhis  Statement of Case-Orissa Estates Abolition Act  (OrissaAct  I	of 1952), Ss. 2 (g), 3 (1)-Supreme Court  Rules,  0.XIX, r. 4.HEADNOTE:The  appellant	sued the State of Orissa for  a	 declarationthat  the  Orissa Estates Abolition Act of 1951 was  in	 itsapplication to the Kanika Raj, of which he was the Raja	 andowner,	invalid, unconstitutional and ultra vires the  StateLegislature  and for an injunction restraining the State  ofOrissa	from  taking  any  action under	 the  Act.   It	 wascontended, inter alia, that no notification under s. 3(1) ofthe Act vesting the Kanika Raj in the State of Orissa  couldissue as the Raj was not an estate as defined by s. 2 (g) ofthe  Act.  The contrary was asserted by the State of  Orissaand  its  further  contention was  that	 the  appellant	 wasestopped by a compromise decree between his predecessors-in-title  on  the one band and the Secretary of  State  on	 theother from denying that the Raj was an estate as defined  bythe Act.Held,  that the Kanika Raj was an estate as defined  by	 theOrissa	Estates Abolition Act of 1951 and the appellant	 wasestopped from denying it by the compromise decree.That  the real intention of the Act in defining 'estate'  asit has done in s. 2(g) of the Act, was to include all lands,such  as  the appellant's, which were as a  matter  of	factincluded  ill  the register prepared under the	Bengal	LandRegistration  Act Of 1876, and in construing the  definitionit is wholly unnecessary to consider whether such  inclusionwas valid or proper or in conformity with the meaning of  anestate under that Act.That  a judgment by consent is as effective in	creating  anestoppel  between the parties as a judgment on	contest	 andthe test is whether the judgment in the previous case  couldhave  been passed without the determination of the  questionwhich is put in issue in the subsequent case where the	pleaof estoppel is raised.Held further, that there is no rule corresponding to Rule  4of -Order XIX of the Supreme Court Rules imposing a  similardisability  on the respondent, and even with regard  to	 theappellant the court may in appropriate cases, give him leaveto raise a ground not specified in the Statement of the Casefiled by him.73JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.122 of 1954.Appeal	under section 109(b) read with section	110,  C.P.C.from the judgment and order dated the 28th September 1953 ofthe Orissa High Court in O.S. No. I of 1953.P.   R. Das and Bakshi Tek Chand, with M.Mohantiand S. P. Varma, for the appellant.M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General of India.  B.Mohapatra, Advocate-General of Orissa with S. Mohanti and P.G. Gokhale, for the respondent.1956.	February 3. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyDAS  C.J.-This	is an appeal from the  judgment	 and  decreepassed on the 28th September, 1953, by a Bench of the OrissaHigh Court in an Original Suit which was -filed on the	24thNovember,  1952,  in the Court of the Subordinate  Judge  ofCuttack	 and was on the 17th January, 1953,  transferred  tothe  High Court and marked as Original Suit No. 1  of  1953.The  suit was filed by the plaintiff-appellant	claiming  asthe  Raja and owner of the Rajgee, known as the Kanika	Raj,against the State of Orissa, praying for a declaration	thatthe Orissa Estates Abolition Act, 1951 (hereinafter referredto  as "the Abolition Act") was, in its application  to	 theRajgee of Kanika, invalid, unconstitutional and ultra  viresthe State Legislature and for an injunction restraining	 theState  of Orissa from taking any action under the said	Act.The suit was instituted evidently under an apprehension thatthe State of Orissa might issue a notification under section3(1)  of  the  Abolition Act declaring that  the  Rajgee  ofKanika	had  passed to and become vested in the	 State	freefrom  all encumbrances.	 The High Court dismissed  the	suitbut gave a certificate of fitness for appeal to this  court.Hence the present appeal by the plaintiff.  The	plaintiff's   contention  before  us  is   that	  nonotification under section 3(1) of the Abolition Act1074can issue because (1) his land is not an "estate" as definedin section 2(g) of the Act, and (2) the plaintiff is not  an"intermediary'	within the meaning of section 2(h)  thereof.In answer to this, the AttorneyGeneral, appearing on  behalfof the State, makes five Submissions, viz.,  (a)	  that on the admitted facts the plaintiff's land isan "estate" within the meaning of the Abolition Act;(b)  that the plaintiff is estopped by the compromise decreepassed	by the Patna High Court on 2nd May 1945 in F.A.	 No.15 of 1941 from contending that his land is not an  "estate"within the meaning of the Abolition	Act;  (c)	  that the plaintiff's land has been held as an"estate"  ever since 1803;   (d)	  that whatever may have been the positionbefore 1805, the plaintiff's land became an "estate"by Regulation XII of 1805; and(e)  that  in  any  event, the	plaintiff's'land  became  an"estate"  after 1805 by subsequent acts and conduct  of	 theplaintiff and his predecessors in title. Re. (a):-Under section 3(1) of the Abolition Act, the StateGovernment can declare that a specified "estate" has  passedto  and has become vested in the State.	 It  is,  therefore,clear that the State Government cannot make any notificationwith respect to land which is not an "estate".	"Estate"  isdefined in section 2(g) of the Abolition Act.  The  materialportion	 of that definition, as it stood at the date of	 theinstitution of the suit, was as follows:- ``  `estate'  means any land held by  an  intermediary	 andincluded under one entry in any of the general registers  ofrevenue-paying	lands and revenue, free lands, prepared	 andmaintained under the law for the time being in force by	 theCollector of a district,.........................''  In  order to be an "estate", the land must be held  by  an"intermediary"	and must be included under one entry in	 anyof  the	 general  registers  of	 revenue-paying	 lands	 andrevenue-free  lands  and  such	general	 registers  must  beprepared and maintained under the  75law for the time being in force.  Section 2(h), as it  stoodthen,  by its earlier part, defined an "intermediary",	withreference to any "estate", to mean, amongst other things,  aproprietor.   The  plaintiff  certainly	 claims	 to  be	 theproprietor  of	his  land.  Therefore, if  his	land  is  an"estate",  he  is clearly an "intermediary".   The  case  ofBiswambhar Singh v. The State of Orissa and Others"),  whichhas been relied on by learned counsel for the plaintiff	 hasno  application	 to  the present case,	for  that  case	 wasconcerned  not with the earlier but with the latter part  ofthe definition of "intermediary".  That the plaintiff's landis  included  under  one entry in the  general	register  ofrevenue paying lands is not disputed.  What is contended foris that in order to make such land an "estate" the  registermust  be prepared and maintained under the law for the	timebeing  in force.  There is no dispute that "the law for	 thetime being ,in force" means the Bengal Land Registration Act(Bengal	 Act VII of 1876).  The plaintiff contends that	 theregister  in which his land is included under one entry	 wasnot   prepared	 or  maintained	 under	 the   Bengal	LandRegistration  Act.   The  argument is that it  is  not	onlynecessary to show that the land is included under one  entryin a register but that it is also necessary to show that theregister where the entry appears was prepared and maintainedunder  the  law.  Under the Bengal  Land  Registration	Act,1876,  land  can be included in the  register  prepared	 andmaintained  under that Act only if such land is an  "estate"as  defined  in	 that  Act.   The  relevant  part  of	thatdefinition is:-  "3(2) 'estate' includes:-(a)any	land subject to the payment of	landrevenue,  eitherimmediately or prospectively, for the dis charge of which  aseparate engagement has been entered into with Government;(b)........................................................(c)............................................................It  is urged, therefore, that the preparation of a  registerunder that Act means the making of entries in that(1) [1954] S.C.R.84276register  of lands which are subject to the payment of	landrevenue for the discharge of which a separate engagement hasbeen entered into.  Land which is not subject to payment  ofland  revenue  and  for the discharge of  which	 a  separateengagement has not been entered into is not an "estate"	 andcannot	be entered in the register prepared  and  maintainedunder  the Bengal Land Registration Act.  That	Act  conferspowers	on  the	 Collector to prepare the  register  in	 themanner specified therein and such statutory power, in  orderto have effect, must be exercised in strict compliance	withthe  provisions of that Act.  The plaintiff  maintains	thatthe  Rajgee of Kanika was never subject to payment  of	landrevenue for the discharge of which a separate engagement hadbeen entered into by him or his predecessors-in title.  That	the  ancestors	of the plaintiff were  at  one	timeindependent  chiefs and that the Rajgee or Killa of,  Kanikawas  in	 ancient  time an independent  State  are  conceded.Later on, the Rajas of Kanika owed nominal allegiance to theMahrattas.   Then came the last Mahratta War and the  plainsof Orissa were conquered by the East India Company.  On 22ndNovember,  1803, there was an "Engagement" between the	EastIndia Company and Raja Balabhadra Bhanja Deo, the then	Rajaof  Killa  Kanika.  The East India Company on the  same	 daygranted a Kaool-Namah to the Raja.  Under the Engagement theRaja  agreed,  amongst	'Other things,	to  pay,  as  annualPeshkush or tribute, 84,840 Kahuns of Cowrees, amounting  toRs.  20,407-12-1 1. This Engagement was confirmed by  clause10  of the Treaty of Peace concluded on the  17th  December,1803,  at  Deogan  between the East India  Company  and	 theMahrattas  which  treaty  was  later  on  ratified  by	 theGovernorGeneral	 in 1804.  On the 5th September,  1805,	 waspassed the Bengal Regulation XII of 1805.  Sections 33 to 37which are material for our present purposewere as follows:-"XXXIII.-The Commissioners having granted sanads to  certainzamindars, entitling them to hold,77their  estates at a fixed jama in perpetuity,  those  sanadsare  hereby  confirmed'.  The following is the list  of	 thenames  of  the	zamindars to whom this provision  is  to  beconsidered applicable:	       Zamindar of Killah Darpan,	       Zamindar of Killah Sookindah,	       Zamindar of Killah Muddoopore.XXXIV.-The Commissioners having likewise granted a sanad  toFuttah	Mohmed, jaghirdar of Malood, entitling him  and	 hisheirs  for  ever,  in  consideration  of  certain   servicesperformed towards the British Government, to hold his  landsexempt from assessment, such sanad is hereby confirmed.  XXXV.	 First.-The  late  Board  of  Commissioners   havingconcluded  a  settlement of the land  revenue  with  certainzamindars,  whose estates are situated chiefly in the  hillsand jungles, for the payment of a fixed annual quit-rent  inperpetuity,  those engagements are hereby confirmed; and  noalteration shall, at any time, be made in the amount of	 therevenue	 payable  under	 the  engagements  in  question	  toGovernment.  Second.-The following is a list of the mehalsto    which  the  provision  in	 the  preceding	 Clause	  isapplicable:      Killah Aull,  : Killah Humishpore,     Killah Cojang, : Killah Miritchpore,     Killah Puttra, : Killah Bishenpore.  Third.-The zamindaries of Cordah and Cunka being mehals ofthe description of those specified in the preceding  Clause,a  settlement shall be concluded, as soon  as  circumstancesmay admit, for the revenue of those mehals on the  principleon which a settlement has been concluded with the  zamindarsof the mehals specified in the preceding Clause.  XXXVI.-All Regulations relating directly or indirectly  tothe  settlement and collection of the public revenue, or  tothe  conduct of the officers employed in the performance  ofthat  duty, whether European or native, in the	province  ofBengal, which are not superseded by the foregoing rules, arehereby	extended  to,  and declared to be in  force  in	 thezillah78of   Cuttack.	Provided,  however,  that   nothing   hereincontained  shall be construed to authorize the	division  ofthe lands comprised in any estates in the zillah of Cuttack,in  which  the	succession to  the  entire  estate  devolvesaccording to established usage to a single heir: in cases ofthis  nature, the Courts of Justice are to be guided by	 theprovisions contained in Regulation X, 1800.  Provided, also,that  nothing herein contained shall be construed to  imply,that any part of the said Regulations are for the present tobe  considered	to  be in force in certain  jungle  or	hillzamindarries  occupied	by a rude and  uncivilized  race  ofpeople	with  the proprietors of which	estates	 engagementswere  formed  by  the late Board of  Commissioners  for	 thepayment	 of  a	certain	 fixed	quit  rent  or	tribute	  toGovernment.   The following is the list of the names of	 themehals	to  which this exemption from the operation  of	 thegeneral Regulations is to be considered applicable.Killah Neelgerry,   : Killah Toalcherry,Killah			    Rampore,Killah Bankey, : Killah Attgurh,   Killah		     Hindole,Killah Joormoo,	    : Killah Kunjur,Killah	       Teegereah,Killah Nirsing-	    : Killah Kindeapara,:Killah     pore,	    Burrumboh,Killah Augole, : Killah Neahgurh,: Killah				   Deckenaul.  XXXVII.      The foregoing exemption from the operation ofthe general Regulations shall likewise, for the present,  beconsidered  to	be  applicable to the  lands  known  by	 theappellation of the territory of Mohurbunge; but it shall  bethe  duty  of  the Collector of the  zillah  to	 conclude  asettlement with the proprietor of the estate for the paymentof  a fixed annual quit-rent, on the principles on  which  asettlement has been concluded with the other bill or  junglezamindars specified in the preceding section".  It  is  claimed that there was at no subsequent  time	 anysuch revenue settlement as was contemplated by79section	 XXXV(3) and that there was no	separate  engagementfor payment of any land revenue at any time thereafter.	 Theconclusion  sought to be drawn in the circumstances is	thatas Killa Kanika was not subject to payment of land revenue.,for  the discharge of which a separate engagement  had	beenentered	 into, it was not an "estate" as defined  in  BengalLand  Registration Act, 1876, and that that being the  posi-tion, it could not have been validly entered in the registerprepared  and maintained under the Bengal Land	RegistrationAct.   The action of the Collector in entering Killa  Kanikaas a revenue-paying estate was wholly ultra vires and in theeye  of	 the  law such an entry is a nullity  and  does	 notexist.	 It follows, therefore, that Killa Kanika cannot  beregarded as an "estate" within the meaning of the  AbolitionAct  because  the general register in which it	is  includedcannot be said to have been validly prepared and  maintainedunder the law for the time being in force.  Section  4  of  the Bengal Land  Registration	 Act,  1876,directs the Collector of every district to prepare and	keepup the four kinds of registers therein mentioned.  Section 7lays down that in Part I of the general register of revenue-paying	lands  should be entered the name  of  every  estatewhich  is  borne  on the revenue-roll of  the  district	 andcertain	 other particulars relating to every such estate  astherein	 specified.  Therefore, if the name of Killa  Kanikawas borne on the revenue-roll of the district, the Collectorwould  be bound to enter the same in Part I of	the  generalregister  prepared  and	 kept up by  him  under	 section  4.Section	 20 of the Act provides that until the registers  bythat  Act  directed  to be prepared  were  so  prepared	 theexisting  registers  then  kept up in the  office  of  everyCollector should be deemed to be the registers kept up underthe Bengal Land Registration Act, 1876.	 Prior to 1876, landregisters used to be maintained under the Bengal  RegulationXLVIII of 1793 as amended by Bengal Regulation VII of  1800.Existing  registers  mentioned in section 20 of	 the  BengalLand Registration Act, 1876, clearly refer to registers keptunder those Regulations and the learned80Attorney-General contends that section 20 gives a  statutoryvalidity to the registers kept under those Regulations.	 Mr.P.  R.	Das  appearing for the appellant  submits  that	 hisarguments apply with equal force to the registers kept underthe old Regulations referred to above.	According to him, ifthe  Collector	entered	 lands which were  not	"estate"  asdefined	 in  the old Regulations, he did  not  exercise	 hisstatutory powers and the entry made by him was a nullity andif  any	 of  the existing registers was void  as  regards  aparticular  entry, then that entry did not exist  and  couldnot  be	 transferred  to  the new register  and	 if  it	 wastransferred,  such  transfer  was  a  nullity  and  the	 newregister, qua that entry, was void and could not be said  tohave been prepared and maintained under law.  We are unable to accept the line of reasoning developed byMr. P. R. Das.	To accede to his contention would be to	 addwords to section 2(g) of the Abolition Act so as to make  itapplicable to lands which were "validly" included under	 oneentry  in any of the general registers	"properly"  preparedand  maintained under the law for the time being  in  force,that is to say, the Bengal Land Registration Act 1876.	Thisthe  court  has	 no power to do.  If  section  2(g)  defined"estate" as including lands mentioned in the schedule to theAct, then whatever was included in the schedule would be  an"estate"   within   the	 meaning  of  the   Abolition	Act,irrespective of whether such land was or was not an "estate"within	the  meaning of any other Act.	The  same  reasoningapplies	 when the definition includes lands entered  in	 thegeneral	 registers prepared and maintained under the  BengalLand  Registration  Act, 1876.	Here the  reference  to	 theregister  prepared or kept under the law for the time  beingin force was meant only to identify the particular  registerin  which the particular land was included under one  entry.Suppose	 that a )register prepared and maintained under	 theBengal	Land  Registration Act, 1876, included	lands  whichwere  "estates" within the meaning of the Land	RegistrationAct and also lands which were not81"estates" within the meaning of that Act.  'Suppose  furtherthat the Orissa Legislature by the Abolition Act intended toinclude all these lands, properly or improperly included  inthe  register,	what  language would they  then	 have  used?Precisely the language they have used in section 2(g) of theAbolition  Act,	 namely,  that an "estate"  means  any	landincluded  in the general registers prepared  and  maintainedunder the law for the time being in force.  In other  words,the definition covers lands which are factually included  inthe  particular	 register  referred to.	  Whether  they	 are"estates" within the meaning of the Bengal Land RegistrationAct, 1876, and whether they were validly or properly enteredaccording  to the provisions of that Act., appears to us  tobe wholly irrelevant for the purpose of construing section 3(g) of the Abolition Act.  In our opinion, the contention ofthe State of Orissa on this point must be accepted.  Re.  (b):  -Mr.   P. R. Das appearing	 for  the  appellantobjects to the plea of estoppel being raised, because it hasnot  been  included in the Statement of Case  filed  in	 thepresent appeal by the respondent.  Order XVIII of the  Rulesof this Court deals with the lodging of cases.	Under Rule Ino  party to an appeal is entitled to be heard by the  courtunless	he  has previously lodged his case  in	the  appeal.Rule 3 lays down how the case is to be prepared and what itscontents  should  be.  Order XIX, Rule 4 provides  that	 theappellant shall not, without the leave of the Court, rely atthe hearing on any grounds not specified in-the Statement ofCase  filed by him.  The Privy Council Practice	 founded  onSheo Singh Rai v. Mussumut Dakho and Moorari Lall(1) and setforth  in Bentwich 3rd edition Ruling 63 at page 181  is  tothe  same effect.  There is no rule  imposing  correspondingdisability  on the respondent.	Further even with regard  tothe appellant the Court may, in appropriate cases, give	 himleave  to raise a ground not specified in the  Statement  ofCase.  In the present case there is no question of surprise,for  the plea of estoppel was pointedly raised and made	 thesubject matter of an(1)  [1878] L.R. 5 I.A. 87.1182issue  before the High Court and was elaborately dealt	withby  the	 High Court in its Judgment under  appeal.   In	 thecircumstances we do not consider it proper to shut out	thisplea of estoppel.  The  plea  of	 estoppel is sought to	be  founded  on	 thecompromise  decree, Ex.	 'O' passed by the Patna High  Courton  2nd May, 1945, in F. A. No. 15 of 1941.  The  compromisedecree	is  utilised  in  the first  place  as	creating  anestoppel by judgment.  In In re.  South American and MexicanCompany, Ex parte Bank of England(1), it has been held	thata judgment by consent or default is as effective an estoppelbetween	 the  parties  as  a  judgment	whereby	 the   courtexercises  its	mind oil a contested  case.   Upholding	 thejudgment  of  Vaughan Williams, J., Lord Herschell  said  atpage 50:-  "The truth is, a judgment by consent is intended to put  astop to litigation between the parties just as much as is  ajudgment which results from the decision of the Court  afterthe  matter has been fought out to the end.  And I think  itwould be very mischievous if one were not to give a fair andreasonable  interpretation  to such judgments, and  were  toallow  questions that were really involved in the action  tobe fought over again in a subsequent action".  To  the like effect are the following observations of	 theJudicial Committee in Kinch v. Walcott and others(2):-  "First  of all their Lordships are clear that in  relationto  this  plea	of estoppel it is of  no  advantage  to	 theappellant  that the order in the libel action which is	saidto  raise  it was a consent order.  For such  a	 purpose  anorder  by consent, not discharged by mutual  agreement,	 andremaining  unreduced,  is as effective as an  order  of	 theCourt  made otherwise than by consent and not discharged  onappeal".  The same principle has been followed by the High Courts inIndia  in  a number of reported decisions.   Reference	needonly be made to the case of Secretary of State, for India inCouncil v. Ateendranath Das(3),(1) L.R. [1895] 1 Ch. 37.   (2) L.R. 1929 A.C. 482, 493.(3) [1935] I.L R. 63 Cal. 550, 558.83Bhaishanker  Nanabhai  and others v.  Morarji  Keshavji	 andCo.(1)	and Raja Kumara Venkata Perumal Raja Bahadur,  Minorby  guardian  Mr.  W. A. Varadachariar	v.  Thatha  RamasamyChetty and others (2).	In the Calcutta case after referringto  the	 English  decisions  the  High	Court  observed	  asfollows:-  "On  this authority it becomes absolutely clear  that	 theconsent order is as effective as an order passed on contest,not only with reference to the conclusions arrived at in theprevious  suit	but also with regard to every  step  in	 theprocess	 of  reasoning	on  which  the	said  conclusion  isfounded.  When we say "every step in the reasoning" we	meanthe findings on the essential facts on which the judgment orthe  ultimate  conclusion was founded.	In other  words	 thefinding which it was necessary to arrive at for the  purposeof  sustaining	the  judgment in the  particular  case	willoperate as estoppel by judgment".  The  correctness  of these principles laid down  in  thesedecisions  is not disputed by Mr. P.R. Das.   Proceeding  onthe  basis  that there is such a principle  of	estoppel  byjudgment,  he  contends	 that  the test	 laid  down  in	 thedecisions  referred to above is whether the judgment in	 theprevious   case	  could	 have  been   passed   without	 thedetermination of the question which was put in issue in	 thesubsequent case, where the plea of estoppel by the  previousjudgment is raised.  This leads us to a consideration of thefacts, which are material to this question.  On the 4th February, 1936, the predecessor-in-title of theplaintiff  brought a suit (O.S. No. 7 of 1936) in the  Courtof the Subordinate Judge of Cuttack against the Secretary ofState  for India in Council, praying for a declaration	thatthe plaintiff bad a good and indefeasible title to the	bedsof  certain rivers, by expressed or implied grant  from	 theEast India Company, alternatively for a declaration that theplaintiff  had acquired an indefeasible right and  title  tothe  beds  of  the said rivers by  prescription	 or  adversepossession   and  for  permanent  injunction   against	 thedefendant restraining him from interfering with the(1) [1911] I.L.R. 36 Bom. 283,(2) [1911] I.L.R, 35 Mad. 75.84rights	of the plaintiff in the beds of the said rivers	 andthe churs formed on them.  The suit was founded on,  amongstothers, the following allegations.  In paragraphs 3 to 6  ofthe plaint were pleaded that the plaintiff's ancestors	werethe  rulers  of Killa Kanika owing allegiance to  the  HinduGajapati  Kings	 of Orissa and were absolute owners  of	 alllands  and  waters  within the ambit  of  their	 territoriesincluding  the two rivers therein mentioned and	 that  afterthe  fall  of the Hindu kingdom in Orissa,  and	 during	 theAfghan, Moghal and Mahratha occupation of Orissa, the Rulersof Killa Kanika, the ancestors of the plaintiff continued tobe  the	 absolute  owners of the Killa	including  the	saidrivers.	 In paragraph 7 of the plaint reference was made  tothe  Engagement and Kaoolnama of 1803, whereby the Raja	 wassaid to have been confirmed in his Rajgee or  proprietorshipof the entire Killa and it was submitted that the said grantwas intended to and did, in fact, confirm his title, to	 thesaid  rivers.	In  paragraph  9  of  the  plaint,  it	 wasacknowledged  that subsequently the status of the rulers  ofKilla Kanika was gradually reduced to that of a Zamindar andthat.  they were divested of all administrative powers,	 butit  was claimed that nevertheless, their proprietary  rightsin  the	 Killa consisting of land and  water  including	 thedisputed  rivers remained intact and that the tribute  whichhad  been  fixed by the engagement of 1803  remained  so  inperpetuity  as	Peshkush  payable by  the  proprietors.	  Inparagraph  33 it was stated that having regard to  the	factthat prior to the British conquest of Orissa, the plaintiffspredecessors-in-title  had been independent rulers of  KillaKanika and as such had valid title to the said rivers withintheir territory and that after the British conquest the EastIndia Company confirmed the title of the then Raja of Kanikato  whatever  had been in the possession of  the  said	Rajaprior to the said conquest and maintained him in  possessionthereof,  the plaintiff claimed good and valid title to	 thebeds  of the said rivers by an express or implied  grant  bythe  said East India Company.  A claim of title to the	bedsof the said85rivers	by  prescription  and adverse  possession  was	alsopleaded	 by way of alternative plea.  The written  statementof  the Secretary of State was filed on the 29th May,  1936,traversing the allegations in the plaint.  In paragraph 7 itwas  definitely pleaded that the Raja, with whom  engagementhad been entered into in 1803, was deposed for miisrule	 andhis status was reduced to that of a Zamindar as a punishmentand  that it was as an act of mercy that he was	 allowed  toretain	the estate without an enhancement of  his  Peshkush.It was submitted that in view of the treatment of the estateduring the past 100 years, it was idle for the plaintiff  tosuggest that he retained the rights comparable to those of aRuling	Chief.	Reading the pleadings and the issues  raisedin  the	 case fairly and as a whole,it appears	quite  clearthat  although	the  Engagement and Kaoolnama  of  1803	 wasreferred  to as a grant, express or implied, from  the	EastIndia Company, the plaintiff was, in substance, founding hisclaim  on his antecedent title as the Ruling Chief of  KillaKanika	which, according to him, bad been confirmed  by	 theEngagement  and	 Kaoolnama of 1803, which  were,  therefore,construed  as  a grant, express or implied,  from  the	EastIndia  Company.	 That the real issue on which the  suit	 wasfought out in the trial court was whether the plaintiff	 wasan independent Ruling Chief and as such entitled to the bedsof  the rivers passing through his territory or was  a	mereZemindar  and as such having no such right is apparent	fromthe  following	passage in the judgment of  the	 SubordinateJudge--  "It is, therefore, too late now to suggest that the statusof  the	 plaintiff  in relation to his	Killa  is  somethinghigher	than or superior to that of a holder of	 an  estate.In  my view, it is of no consequence, as respects the  pointnow under consideration whether the estate is a	 permanentlysettled	 estate or it is a temporarily settled estate.	 Thequestion is whether the plaintiff is the holder of an estateor  it is that he owns a State.	 But as I have just  pointedout, a private individual cannot own a State in the sense  asovereign authority owns the same".86After  referring  to the Regulations of 1805 and  1806,	 thelearned Subordinate Judge proceeded to say:  "Thus	 it is apparent that with the advent of the  Britishthe  question of status of the plaintiff was never  left  inany  degree of uncertainty.  All these	various	 Regulationstaken together will go to establish in an unmistakable term,that  the plaintiff's status in his relation to	 his  Killa,was recognised from the time of the advent of the British inOrissa	as that of a Zamindar, i.e., a bolder of an  estate.That  being  so, in relation to these rivers,  or  to  theirbeds, the plaintiff's position shall be nothing more than orsuperior to that of a riparian owner".  Again	 referring to the Engagement and Kaoolnama  of	1803the learned Subordinate Judge stated as follows:-  "Now taking these two documents together, it is  difficultto read in them that any grant was made either expressly  orimpliedly by the sovereign authority in favour of the holderof the Killa.  The main provisions are that the revenue	 wasfixed for ever, and that the holder was asked to be loyal tothe  Company's	Government.   Thus initially,  I  have	beenunable to associate any idea of grant as to be flowing	fromthese  engagements.  All that can be said, and	perhaps	 theearned	counsel for the plaintiff maintains to that  effect,is  that  what	rights	the holder  of	the  Killa  had,  inreference   to	the  Killa,  were  fully  and  without	 anylimitation  or restriction, recognised.	 It  is,  therefore,that the question will now be set at large for a  discussionas  to	what rights the proprietor of the Killa had  at	 thetime when these engagements were made".  It  is  needless  to extract	further	 passages  from	 thejudgment.   In	the  result the	 learned  Subordinate  Judgeanswered the issues against the plaintiff and dismissed	 thesuit.	The plaintiff appealed to the Patna High  Court.   Acompromise  was	 arrived at between the parties,  which	 wasfiled in court and the appeal was disposed of in  accordancewith  the terms of the compromise petition.   The  principalterms of the compromise petition were as follows:-87 "1.  That it shall be declared that the Crown and  for	 thematter	of that, the Province of Orissa, the  defendant	 hasthe  title to the disputed river beds, as described  in	 theschedule   of  the  plaint,  and   the	 plaintiff-appellantacknowledges the same.  2.That the plaintiff-appellant, that is the Proprietor  ofthe Kanika Estate is the rightful owner of the fisheries  ofthe said rivers and the defendant has not nor will have	 anyobjection to his unobstructed exclusive permanent  enjoymentof  the	 fishery  rights  in the said  rivers  at  any	timewhatsoever.   The  respondents	shall  not  claim  nor	 theappellant shall be liable to any assessment on that  ground,other  than  what is payable in respect of  the	 permanentlysettled estate of Killa.  3.That  subject  to such rights as the Crown or  in  otherwords, the Province of Orissa has in the beds of the  riversaforesaid and in the channel of waters flowing thereon,	 theProprietor of Kanika Estate that is the	 plaintiff-appellantwill  have  his rights to the ferries over the	said  riverswhich he has been so far enjoying and except when such ferryrights	interfere with the Crown's right in the bed  of	 therivers	and similar rights in the waters on the	 channel  ofthe  rivers for the purpose of navigation and things of	 thekind,  the  Province of Orissa will not interfere  with	 norraise  any  objection to the plaintiff's enjoyment  of	suchrights	or  ferry  through the length  and  breadth  of	 theaforesaid rivers.  4.That such Chars, islands or other accretions  formed    inthe  said  rivers  as have been shown  in  the	Civil  CourtCommissioner's	map prepared in this suit and now forming  apart  of  the  court's record shall be deemed  as  part	 andparcel	of the permanently settled estate of Kanika and	 thedefendant will not be entitled to any further assessment  inrespect thereof.  5.That  all  future riparian accretions  or  Chars  formedadjoining  the banks of the rivers in dispute shall also  bealways deemed to be part and parcel of the said	 permanentlysettled Zamindary of Kanika and shall be so possessed by himwithout	 any further payment on assessment of  land  revenueover and88above the land revenue that has been permanently fixed.  6.That  all  other  islands or Chars that  may  be  formedsubsequent  hereto in the midst of the river being  cut	 offfrom the banks thereof by waters that are tidal,  unfordableand navigable in all seasons of the year shall belong to thedefendant  and	the plaintiff or  his  successor-in-interestwill have a right to possess and take settlement of the samefrom  the  defendant and the latter will have the  right  tolevy  assessment  of land revenue thereon according  to	 theprinciples and provisions of law as laid down in  RegulationII  of	1819 and this assessment will be of force  from	 thetime when the islands or Chars will appear and be capable ofenjoyment  irrespective	 of the fact whether  estate  holderdoes really enjoy it or not' .  The declaration of the title of the State to the  disputedriver  beds was a clear acknowledgment by the  plaintiff  ofthe  State's sovereign rights, which  necessarily  negativedthe  sovereign	rights	which he asserted  and	claimed	 forhimself.   The	declaration  that  the	plaintiff,  as	 theproprietor of the Kanika estate, was the' rightful owner  offisheries  in the said rivers and that the  defendant  wouldnot  claim any assessment on that ground was nothing  but  arecognition  of	 the plaintiff's title as the  holder  of  apermanently settled estate.  The same observations apply  toclause	(3) whereby the plaintiff was declared to  have	 theferry rights over the said rivers, which were expressly madesubject	 to  the  rights of the State in  the  beds  of	 therivers.	  The provision that all future riparian  accretionsor  Chars  formed adjoining the banks of  the  rivers  wouldalways	be deemed part of the permanently settled  Zemindariof  Kanika  and should be possessed by him  without  furtherpayment	 of  assessment of land revenue over and  above	 theland  revenue  that  had  been	permanently  fixed   clearlyacknowledges  that the plaintiff accepted the position	thathe  had no rights other than what he had as the holder of  apermanently  settled  estate liable to the payment  of	landrevenue, in contradistinction to89tribute	 fixed in perpetuity.  The provisions of clause	 (6)of   the  terms	 of  settlement	 also  point  to  the	sameconclusion.  Mr. P. R. Das contends that the issue in the present	caseis  whether  the land held by the plaintiff is	an  "estate"within	the  meaning of the Bengal  Land  Registration	Act,1876, whereas the issue in the earlier case was whether	 theplaintiff  's  predecessors had title to the river  beds  byexpress	 or  implied grant from the Crown.   This  does	 notappear	to  us to be a fair reading of the  pleadings  as  awhole.	The plaint in the earlier suit summarised above	 andthe  passages  culled from the judgment of the	trial  courtclearly	 indicate  that	 the parties went to  trial  on	 thedefinite  and  well understood issue  that  the	 plaintiff'sclaim to the river beds was founded on his anterior title asan  independent Ruling Chief of Killa Kanika and  that	thattitle had been confirmed by the Engagement and Kaoolnama  of1803,  which were, in a loose way, construed as a  grant  ofthe  river  beds,  express or implied,	by  the	 East  IndiaCompany.  What the parties understood by the issues on whichthey  went to trial is clearly illustrated by  the  passagesquoted	from the judgment.  The fact that the claim  in	 theearlier suit related only to a part of the land, namely	 theriver beds, whereas the present case is that the entire landheld   by  the	plaintiff  is  not  an	"estate"  makes	  nodifference,  for the real issue between the parties  in	 theearlier	 suit  was,  as	 it is in  the	present	 suit,	onlyconcerning his status and the rights flowing therefrom..  Tohold in this suit that the plaintiff is not the holder of anestate subject to payment of land revenue for the  dischargeof  which a separate engagement has been entered into,	willbe to permit the plaintiff to set up a sovereign status	 forhimself,  which	 he  actually did in the  earlier  case	 butfailed to establish in the trial court and which he, by	 thecompromise, expressly abandoned in the appeal court.  In ourjudgment the compromise decree precludes the plaintiff	fromre-asserting  the  title, which had been  negatived  by	 thecompromise decree although it related only to his claim to apart of the lands, namely1290the beds of the rivers therein mentioned.  The compromise decree is also sought to be pleaded by	 theState  against the plaintiff as estoppel by  representation.It  is	said,  that  even if  the  compromise  had  not	 theimprimatur   of	 the  court,  it  would,  nevertheless,	  berepresentation	that  the plaintiff's  predecessor  was	 theZemindar  of a permanently settled estate.   The  compromiseconsisted of reciprocal concessions, those made by one partybeing the consideration for those made by the other.  It wason  the	 basis	of the concession made	by  the	 plaintiff'spredecessor, namely, that he was a Zemindar of a permanentlysettled	 estate, that the State gave up the benefit  of	 thedecree	which  had been passed in its favour  by  the  trialcourt  and  also  the  right  to  levy	assessment  on	 theaccretions of future Chars.  One of the main  considerationsfor  the compromise ,was the clear admission on the part  ofthe  plaintiff	in that case that his status in	 respect  ofKilla Kanika was nothing more than that of a proprietor of apermanently settled estate liable to pay land revenue.	 TheHigh  Court decided the issue of estoppel against the  Stateon  two considerations, namely, (1) that the status  of	 theowner of Killa Kanika was not directly and substantially  inissue  in the earlier litigation and (2) that there  was  noclear  evidence	 led on the side of the State  to  establishthat  the  admission by the plaintiff in that  case  of	 hisstatus	was the main consideration for the  compromise.	  Weare satisfied that the High Court was in error on both thesepoints.	  As already pointed out, the  pleadings  summarisedabove and the passages in the judgments quoted above clearlyindicate that the status of the plaintiff was the foundationof his claim to the river beds and was consequently directlyand  substantially  in	issue in  that	litigation  and	 wasunderstood  to	be so by the -parties  themselves.   On	 thesecond	ground	the  terms  of	the  compromise	 speak	 forthemselves.  It is quite clear that the concessions made  byone party were the consideration for those made by the otherparty  and,  therefore, it was not necessary to	 adduce	 anyfurther evidence, assuming that any evidence was91admissible for the purpose.  In our judgment, the finding ofthe High Court on this issue was clearly erroneous.  Each	of the conclusions we have arrived at on  the  firsttwo  points is quite sufficient, by itself, to enable us  todispose	 of  this appeal and it is not necessary for  us  todeal  with or express any opinion on the other three  pointscanvassed  before us.  The result, therefore, is  that	thisappeal	 should	 be  dismissed	with  costs  and  we   orderaccordingly.