PETITIONER:KAKUMANU PEDA SUBBAYYA ANDANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:KAKUMANU AKKAMMA AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:04/09/1958BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR 1042		  1959 SCR 1249ACT:Hindu  Law-Partition-Suit for Partition on behalf  of  minor-Severance  of	joint status-Death of  minor  pending  suit-Abatement-Right of legal representative to continue suit.HEADNOTE:In  a  suit  instituted	 on behalf  of	a  Hindu  minor	 forpartition   of	the  joint  family  properties,	 the   minorplaintiff  died	 during	 the pendency of the  suit  and	 hismother	as the legal representative was allowed to  continuethe  suit as the second plaintiff, and the suit was  decreedas it was found that the defendants had been acting  againstthe  interests of the minor and that the suit for  partitionwas  therefore beneficial to him.  It was contended for	 theappellants  that the suit had abated by reason of the  deathof the minor before the suit was heard and before the  Courtcould decide whether the institution of the suit was for hisbenefit.Held,  that when a suit is instituted by a person acting  onbehalf	of  a minor for the partition of  the  joint  familyproperties, a declaration made by him on behalf of the minorto  become  divided  brings about  a  severance	 in  status,subject only to the decision of the Court that the action isbeneficial to the minor.  The true effect of the decision ofthe Court is not to create in the minor a right which he didnot  possess  before but to recognise the  right  which	 hadaccrued to him when the action was instituted.Rangasayi  v.  Nagarathnamma, (1933) I. L. R.  57  Mad.	 95,Ramsingh   v.  Fakira,	I.  L.	R.  [1939]  Bom.   256	 andMandilprasad v.	    Ramcharanlal,  I.L.R. [1947]  Nag.	848,approved.Case law reviewed.Accordingly, the suit did not abate and the legal  represen-tative was entitled to continue the suit and obtain a decreeon showing that when the suit was instituted it was for	 thebenefit of the minor.Held,  further,	 that the suit did not abate on	 the  groundeither that the cause of action for a suit for partition  bya minor was one personal to him, because such a suit is	 onerelating to property.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 326 of 1955.1250Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and decree  datedApril  10, 1953, of the Madras High Court in  Second  AppealNo.  1815  of 1949, arising out of the judgment	 and  decreedated  January 28, 1949, of the Court of Subordinate  Judge,Bapatla, in A. S. No. 188 of 1947, against the judgment	 anddecree	dated  December 23, 1946, of  the  District  Munsif,Ongole, in O.  S. No. 139 of 1946.M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India and R.GanapathyAiyar, for the appellants.A.   V. Viswanatha Sastri, M. R. Rangaswami Aiyangar, T.  S.Venkataraman and K. R. Choudhury, for the respondents.1958.  September 4. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyVENKATARAMA  AIYAR J.-This appeal arises out of a  suit	 forpartition of joint family properties instituted on April  2,1942, in the Court of the District Munsif, Ongole, on behalfof  one Kakumanu Ramanna, a minor of the age of about 2	 1/2years  by  his material grandfather, Rangayya, as  his	nextfriend.	 The first defendant is his father.  The second	 andthird defendants are the sons of the first defendant by	 hisdeceased  first	 wife.	The fourth defendant is	 the  secondwife   of  the	first  defendant  and  the  mother  of	 theplaintiff-.   The  fifth defendant is the  daugther  of	 thefirst defendant by the fourth defendant.In the plaint, three grounds were put forward as to why	 theminor plaintiff should have partition: (1) It was said	thatthe  mother of the plaintiff was ill-treated, and there	 wasneglect to maintain her and her children.  Both the DistrictMunsif	and the Subordinate Judge on appeal, held that	thishad  not  been established, and no further  notice  need  betaken of it. (2) It was then said that there had been a saleof the family properties to one Akkul Venkatasubba Reddi forRs.  2,300, that there was no necessity for that  sale,	 andthat its object was only to injure the plaintiff.  That saleis dated May 9, 1939. (3) Lastly, it was alleged that item 2had been purchased on June 1, 1938, and item 11 on June	 14,1939, with joint family1251funds,	but that the sale deeds had been taken in the  namesof  the second and third defendants with a view to  diminishthe assets available to the plaintiff.	In addition to theseallegations,  it  was  also stated in the  plaint  that	 thefamily	was  in good circumstances, and that there  were  nodebts  owing by it.  On June 20, 1942, the defendants  filedtheir  written	statements, wherein they  claimed  that	 thepurchase  of items 2 and 11 had been made with the  separatefunds of the second and third defendants, and that the jointfamily had no title to them.  They further alleged that	 thefamily	had debts to the extent of Rs. 2,600.	Sometime  inJanuary	 1943, the minor plaintiff died, and his mother	 whowas   the  fourth  defendant  was  recorded  as	 his   legalrepresentative, and transposed as the second plaintiff.The  suit was in the first instance decreed, but on  appeal,the Subordinate Judge remanded the case for trial on certainissues.	  At  the rehearing, it ",as proved that  the  firstplaintiff  was	born  on December 20, 1939.   On  that,	 theDistrict Munsif held that the sale of the family  propertiesto Akkul Venkatasubba Reddi and the purchase of items 2	 andII  in the names of the second and third  defendants  havingbeen anterior to the birth of the minor plaintiff, no  causeof  action  for	 partition could be  founded  thereon.	 TheDistrict Munsif also held on the evidence that the  purchaseof  items  2  and 11 was not shown to have  been  made	withseparate  funds,  and that therefore they  belonged  to	 thejoint  family and further that the family owed no debts	 andthat the allegations contra in the statements were not	madeout.   But  he held, however, that this did  not  furnish  acause of action for partition.	In the result, he  dismissedthe suit.  There was an appeal against this judgment to	 theCourt of the Subordinate Judge of Bapatla, who affirmed	 thefindings of the District Munsif that items 2 and 11 belongedto the joint, family, and that there were no debts owing  byit.   But  he  also agreed with him that  as  the  sale	 andpurchases  in question were prior to the birth of the  minorplaintiff, the suit for1591252partition   based   thereon  was   not	 maintainable.	  Heaccordingly dismissed the appeal.  The second plaintiff tookthe matter in second appeal to the High Court of Madras, andthat was heard by Satyanarayana Rao J. who held that as	 thedefendants had falsely claimed that items 2 and 11 were	 theseparate  properties  of the second  and  third	 defendants,their interest was adverse to that of the minor and that thesuit  for  partition  was clearly  beneficial  to  him.	  Heaccordingly granted a preliminary decree for partition.	 Thepresent appeal has been brought against it on leave  grantedby this Court under Art. 136.The learned Attorney-General who appeared for the appellantsadvanced two contentions in support of the appeal: (1)	thatthere was a concurrent finding by both the courts below thatthe  suit was not instituted for the benefit of	 the  minor,and that the High Court had no power to reverse it in secondappeal;	 and (2) that, in any event, as the minor  plaintiffhad  died  before the suit was heard and  before  the  courtcould decide whether the institution of the suit was for hisbenefit, the action abated and could not be continued by hismother as his legal representative.On  the first question, the contention of the appellants  isthat  it is a pure question of fact whether the	 institutionof  a suit is for the benefit of a minor or not, and that  afinding	 of the courts below on that question is not  liableto  be	interfered with in second appeal.  But	it  must  beobserved that the finding of the Subordinate Judge was	onlythat as the impugned sale and purchases were made before theminor  plaintiff was born, no cause of action for  partitioncould  be founded by him thereon, and that, in our  opinion,is a clear misdirection.  The transactions in question	wererelied	on  by	the  minor plaintiff  as  showing  that	 thedefendants  were  acting adversely to him, and that  it	 wastherefore  to his benefit that there should be a  partition.It  is no doubt true that as the plaintiff was not  born  onthe  date  of those transactions, the defendants  could	 nothave  entered  into them with a view to injure	him,  thougheven as to this it should be noted that in May and -June,12531939  when  the	 transactions  were  concluded,	 the   firstplaintiff  was in the womb, and the first  defendant  admitsknowledge of this, in his evidence.  But assuming that therewas no intention to defeat the rights of the first plaintiffat  the time when the transactions in question were  enteredinto, that does not conclude the matter.  The real point fordecision is whether the defendants were acting adversely  tothe  minor, and if, after he was born, they  used  documentswhich	might  have  been  innocent  when  they	 came	intoexistence,  for the purpose of defeating his rights  to	 theproperties comprised therein, that would be conduct  hostileto  him justifying partition.  Now, what are the facts ?  Inthe  written statements which were filed shortly  after	 theinstitution of the suit while the first plaintiff was alive,defendants I to 3 combined to deny his title to items 2	 andI  1, and at the trial, they adduced evidence in support  oftheir  contention that they were the separate properties  ofdefendants  2  and  3.	Even in the  Court  of	Appeal,	 thedefendants  persisted  in pressing this claim,	and  furthermaintained  that  the joint family had debts, and  both	 thecourts	below  had concurrently held against them  on  theseissues.	 These are materials from which it could rightly  beconcluded  that it was not to the interest of the  minor  tocontinue  joint	 with the defendants, and that it  would  bebeneficial  to him to decree partition.	 In holding that  asthe  transactions in question had taken place prior  to	 hisbirth the minor could not rely on them as furnishing a causeof action, the courts below had misunderstood the real pointfor  determination, and that was a ground on which the	HighCourt  could interfere with their finding in second  appeal.We  accept the finding of the High Court that the  suit	 wasinstituted  for the benefit of the minor plaintiff,  and  inthat view, we proceed to consider the second question raisedby  the learned Attorney-General-and that is the main  ques-tion  that  was	 pressed  before  us-whether  the  suit	 forpartition abated by reason of the death of the minor  beforeit was heard and decided.The contention on behalf of the appellants is that while  inthe case of an adult coparcener a clear and1254unambiguous expression on his part of an intention to becomedivided will have the effect of bringing about a division instatus	and the filing of a suit for partition would  amountto such an expression, that rule can have no application  inthe  case of a minor, as under the law he is incapable of  avolition of his own.  It is conceded by the appellants	thata  suit	 for partition could be entertained on behalf  of  aminor  plaintiff, and decreed if the court decides that	 it,is  in the interests of the minor.  But it is said  that  insuch  a case, the court exercises on behalf of the  minor  avolition  of  which lie is incapable, that it is  not  untilthat volition is exercised by the court that there can be  adivision  in  status,  and that,  therefore,  when  a  minorplaintiff dies before the court adjudicates on the  questionof  benefit to him, he dies an undivided coparcener and	 hisinterest  survives  to the other coparceners  and  does	 notdevolve on his heirs by inheritance.  The contention of	 therespondents, on the other hand, is that a suit for partitioninstituted  on	behalf of a minor coparcener stands  on	 thesame footing as a similar suit filed by an adult coparcener,with  this difference that if the suit is held by the  courtnot to have been instituted for the benefit of the minor  itis liable to be dismissed, and no division in status can  beheld  to result from such an action.  In other words, it  isargued	that  a	 suit for partition on	behalf	of  a  minoreffects	 a  severance in status from the date of  the  suit,conditional on the court holding that its institution is forthe benefit of the minor.The question thus raised is one of considerable	 importance,on  which  there has been divergence  of  judicial  opinion.While the decisions in Chelimi Chetty v. Subbamma (1), LaltaPrasad	v. Sri Mahadeoji Birajman Temple (2) and Hari  Singhv.  Pritam Singh(3), hold that when a suit for partition  isfiled on behalf of a minor plaintiff there is a division  instatus only if and when the Court decides that it is for hisbenefit	 and passes a decree, the decisions in Rangasayi  v.Nagarathnamma (4), Ramsing v. Fakira (5) and Mandliprasad v.Ramcharanlal (6), lay down that when such a(1)  (1917) I.L.R. 41Mad. 442.(2)  (1920) I.L.R. 42 All. 461.(3)  A.I.R. 1936 Lah. 504.(4)  (1933) I.L.R. 57 Mad. 95.(5)  I.L.R. [1939] Bom. 256.(6)  I.L.R. [1947] Nag. 848.1255suit is decreed, the severance in status relates back to thedate  of the institution of the suit.  While Chelimi  Chettyv. Subbamma (1) decides that when a minor on whose behalf  asuit is filed dies before hearing, the action abates, it washeld  in Rangasayi v. Nagarathnamma (2) and Mandliprasad  v.Ramcharanlal  (3) that such a suit does not abate by  reasonof the death of the minor before trial, and that it is	opento  his	 legal	representatives to  continue  the  suit	 andsatisfy	 the court that the institution of the suit was	 forthe  benefit of the minor, in which case there would  be,  adivision  in  status  from the date of the  plaint  and	 theinterests of the minor in the joint family properties  woulddevolve on his heirs.  To decide which of these two views isthe correct one, we shall have to examine the nature of	 theright  which a minor coparcener has, to call  for  partitionand of the power which the court has, to decide whether	 thepartition in question is beneficial to the minor or not.Under  the  Mitakshara law, the right, of  a  coparcener  toshare  in the joint family properties arises on	 his  birth,and  that right carries with it the right to  be  maintainedout of those properties suitably to the status of the familyso  long as the family is joint and to have a partition	 andseparate  possession of his share, should he make  a  demandfor  it.  The view was at one time held that there could  beno  partition,	unless all the coparceners agreed to  it  oruntil a decree was passed in a suit for partition.  But	 thequestion  was finally settled by the decision of  the  PrivyCouncil	 in Girja Bai v. Sadashiv Dhundiraj (4), wherein  itwas held, on a review of the original texts and adopting theobservation  to that effect in Suraj Narain v. lqbal  Narain(5), that every coparcener has got a right to become dividedat  his	 own will and option whether the  other	 coparcenersagree  to it or not, that a division in status	takes  placewhen   he  expresses  his  intention  to   become   separateunequivocally avid unambiguously, that the filing of a	suitfor  partition is a clear expression of such  an  intention,and that, in consequence,(1)  (1917) I.L.R. 41 Mad. 442.(2)  (1933) I.L.R. 57 Mad. 95.(3)  I.L.R. [1947] Nag. 848.(4)  (1916) L.R. 43 I.A. 151.(5) (1912) L.R. 40 I.A. 40,45.1256there is a severance in status when the action for partitionis filed.  Following this view to its logical conclusion, itwas  held by the Privy Council in Kawal Nain v.	 Prabhu	 Lal(1),  that  even if such a suit were to be  dismissed,	thatwould  not affect the division in status which must be	heldto  have  taken	 place,	 when  the  action  was	 instituted.Viscount Haldane observed:"A decree may be necessary for working out the result of theseverance and for allotting definite shares, but the  statusof  the plaintiff as separate in estate is brought about  byhis  assertion of his right to separate, whether he  obtainsconsequential judgment or not."The  law being thus settled as regards coparceners  who	 aresui  juris, the question is whether it operates	 differentlywhen the coparcener who institutes the suit for partition isa minor acting through his next friend.	 Now, the Hindu	 lawmakes no distinction between a major coparcener and a  minorcoparcener,  so far as their rights to joint properties	 areconcerned.  A minor is, equally with a major, entitled to besuitably  maintained  out of the family properties,  and  atpartition,  his	 rights	 are precisely	those  of  a  major.Consistently  with this position, it has long  been  settledthat a suit for partition on behalf of a minor coparcener ismaintainable  in  the same manner as one filed by  an  adultcoparcener, with this difference that when the plaintiff  isa  minor the court has to be satisfied that the	 action	 hasbeen instituted for his benefit.  Vide the authorities citedin Rangasayi v. Nagarathnamma (2 ) at p. 137.  The course ofthe law may be said, thus far, to have had smooth run.	 Butthen  came the decision in Girja Bai v.	 Sadashiv  Dhundiraj(3)  which  finally established that a	division  in  statustakes  place when there is an unambiguous declaration  by  acoparcener  of his intention to separate, and that the	veryinstitution   of  a  suit  for	partition  constituted	 theexpression  of such an intention.  The question	 then  arosehow  far this principle could be applied, when the suit	 forpartition  was	instituted  not by a major but	by  a  minoracting through his next friend.	 The view was expressed that(1) (1917) L.R. 44 I.A. 159.  (2) (1933) I.L.R. 57 Mad. 95.(3) (1916) L.R. 43 I.A. 151.1257as the minor had, under the law, no volition of his own' therule  in  question  had no application to him  it  was	not,however,  suggested  that  for	that  reason  no  .suit	 forpartition could be maintained on behalf of a minor, for sucha  stand  would	 be contrary to the law as laid	 down  in  aseries of decisions and must, if accepted, expose the estateof  the	 minor	to the perils of  waste	 and  spoliation  bycoparceners acting adversely to him.  But what was said	 wasthat  when  a  court decides that a  partition	is  for	 thebenefit	 of  a minor, there is a division brought  about  bysuch decision and not otherwise.  It would follow from	thisthat  if a minor died before the court decided the  questionof  benefit lie would have died an undivided  coparcener  ofhis family and his heirs could not continue the action.In Chelimi Chetty v. Subbamma (1), the point directly  arosefor  decision whether on the death of a minor plaintiff	 thesuit  for  -partition  instituted on  his  behalf  could  becontinued  by his legal representatives.  It was  held	thatthe  rule  that	 the institution of  a	suit  for  partitioneffected a severance of joint status was not applicable to asuit instituted on behalf of a minor, and that when he	diedduring	the pendency of the suit" his  legal  representativewas  not  entitled  to	continue it.   The  ground  of	thisdecision was thus stated:"  It  was strongly argued by the learned  pleader  for	 therespondent that as the plaint states facts and circumstanceswhich, if proved, would be good justification for the  courtdecreeing partition, therefore at this stage we must proceedon the basis that there was a good cause of action and therewas  thus a severance of status effected by the	 institutionof the suit.  This clearly does not amount to anything	morethan this, that it is open to a person who chooses to act onbehalf	of a minor member of a Hindu family to exercise	 thediscretion on his behalf to effect a severance.	 What causesthe  severance of a joint Hindu family is not the  existenceof  certain facts which would justify any member to ask	 forpartition,  but it is the exercise of the option  which	 thelaw lodges in a member of the joint family to say whether heshall continue to remain(1)  (1917) T.L.R. 41 Mad. 442.1258joint  or whether he shall ask for a division.	In the	caseof an adult he has not got to give any reasons why lie	asksfor partition but has simply to say that he wants partition,and the court is bound to give him a decree.  In the case ofa  minor the law gives the court, the power to	say  whetherthere should be a division or not, and we think that it willlead  to considerable complications and difficulties  if  weare  to say that other persons also have got the  discretionto  create  a division in the family, purporting to  act  onbehalf of a minor."This decision was cited with approval in Lalta Prasad  v.SriMahadeoji Birajman Temple (1), wherein it was observed:" The effect, therefore, we think, of an action brought by aminor  through	his  next  friend  is  not  to	create	 anyalteration  of status of the family, because a minor  cannotdemand	as of right a separation; it is only granted in	 thediscretion  of	the court when, in  the	 circumstances,	 theaction	appears	 to be for the benefit of  the	minor.	 SeeChelimi Chetty v. Subbamma (2)."In  Hari  Singh v. Pritam Singh (3), a	suit  for  partitioninstituted  on	behalf	of a minor was	decreed,  the  courtfinding	 that  it  was for the benefit of  the	minor.	 Thequestion  then	arose as to the period for which  the  kartacould be made liable to account.  It was held, following thedecisions  in  Chelimi	Chetty v. Subbamma (2  )  and  LallaPrasad	v.  Sri Mahadeoji Birajman Temple (1), that  as	 theseverance  in  status  took place only on the  date  of	 thedecision and not when the suit was instituted, the liabilityto  account arose only from the date of the decree  and	 notfrom  the  date of the suit.  It may be	 mentioned  that  inChhotabhai v. Dadabhai (4) Divatia J. quoted the decision inChelimi Chetty v. Subbamma (2) with approval, but as pointedout  in	 Ramsing  v. Fakira (5) and  by	 the  learned  judgehimself	 in Bammangouda v. Shankargouda (6), the  point	 nowunder  consideration  did not really arise for	decision  inthat case, and the(1)  (1920) I.L.R. 42 All. 461.(2)  (1917) I.L.R. 41 Mad. 442.(3)  A.I.R. 1936 Lah. 504.(4)  A.I.R. 1935 Bom. 54.(5)  I.L.R. [1939] Bom. 256.(6)  A.I.R. 1944 Bom. 67.1259observations  were merely obiter.  It is on the strength  ofthe above authorities that the appellants contend that	whenthe  minor  plaintiff  died in January 1943,  the  suit	 forpartition  had abated, and that his mother had no  right  tocontinue the suit as his heir.Now, the ratio of the decision in Chelimi Chetty v. Subbamma(1)-and	 it  is	 this decision that was	 followed  in  LaltaPrasad's  Case	(2  ), Hari Singh v. Pritam  Singh  (3)	 andChhotabhai v. Dadabhai (4)-is that the power to bring  abouta  division between a minor and his coparceners	 rests	onlywith  the court and not with any other person, and that,  inour  judgment, is clearly erroneous.  When a  court  decidesthat  a	 suit for partition is beneficial to the  minor,  itdoes not itself bring about a division in status.  The courtis  not	 in  the position of a	super-guardian	of  a  minorexpressing  on his behalf all intention to  become  divided.That intention is, in fact, expressed by some other  person,and  the  function which the court exercises  is  merely  todecide	whether	 that  other person has acted  in  the	bestinterests  of  the  minor in expressing on  his	 behalf	 ailintention  to  become divided.	The position will  be  clearwhen  regard  is  had to what takes place when	there  is  apartition outside court.  In such a partition, when a branchconsisting  of	a father and his minor son  becomes  dividedfrom the others, the father acts on behalf of the minor	 sonas  well;  and the result of the partition is  to  effect  aseverance  in status between the father and his	 minor	son,oil  the one hand and the other coparceners, on	 the  other.In that case, the intention of the minor to become separatedfrom  the  coparceners	other  than  his  father  is  reallyexpressed  on his behalf by his father.	 But it	 may  happenthat  there  is a division between the father  and  his	 ownminor  son,  and in that case, the minor would	normally  berepresented  by	 his mother or some other  relation,  and  apartition  so entered into has been recognised to  be  validand  effective	to bring about a severance in  status.	 Theminor has no doubt the right to have the partition set asideif  it is shown to have been prejudicial to him but if	thatis not established, the partition(1)  (1917) I.L.R. 41 Mad. 442.(3)  A.I.R. 1936 Lah. 504.(2)  (1920) I.L.R. 42 All. 461.(4)  A.I.R. 1935 BOM. 54.1601260is  binding on him.  Vide Balkishen Das v. Ram	Narain	Sahu(1).  And even when the partition is set aside on the groundthat  it  is  unfair, the result will be not  to  annul	 thedivision  in status created by the partition but to  entitlethe  minor  to	a re-allotment of  the	properties.   It  isimmaterial that the minor was represented in the transactionnot  by a legal guardian but by a relation.  It is true,  asheld in Gharib- Ul-Lah v. Khalak Singh (2) that no  guardiancan   be  appointed  with  reference  to   the	 coparcenaryproperties  of a minor member in a joint family, because  itis the karta that has under the law the right of  managementin  respect of them and the right to represent the minor  intransactions  relating to them.	 But that is only  when	 thefamily	is  joint, and so where there is disruption  of	 thejoint  status,	there can be no question of the right  of  akarta  of  a joint family as such to act on  behalf  of	 theminor,	and on the authorities, a partition entered into  onhis behalf by a person other than his father or mother	willbe valid, provided that person acts in the interests of	 andfor the benefit of the minor.If,  under the law, it is competent to a person	 other	thanthe  father or mother of a minor to act on his	behalf,	 andenter  into a partition out of court so as to bind  him,  isthere  any  reason why that person should not  be  competentwhen he finds that the interests of the minor would best  beserved by a division and that the adult coparceners are	 notwilling	 to  effect  a partition, to file a  suit  for	thatpurpose	 on behalf of the minor, and why if the court  findsthat the action is beneficial to the minor, the	 institutionof  the, suit should not be held to be a proper	 declarationon  behalf of the minor to become divided so as to  cause  aseverance in status?  In our judgment, when the law  permitsa  person  interested in a minor to act on his	behalf,	 anydeclaration  to become divided made by him on behalf of	 theminor must be held to result in severance in status, subjectonly  to the court deciding whether it is beneficial to	 theminor;	and a suit instituted on his behalf if found  to  bebeneficial,  must  be  held to bring  about  a	division  instatus.	 That(1) (1903) L.R. 30 I.A. 139. :(2) (1903) L.R. 30 I.A. 165.1261was  the view taken in a Full Bench decision of	 the  MadrasHigh  Court  in	 Rangasayi. v.	Nagarathnamma  (1),  whereinRamesam J. stated the position thus:" These instances show that the object of the issue  whetherthe  suit  was	for the benefit of the minor  is  really  toremove the obstacle to the passing of the decree.  It is  noobjection to the maintainability of the suit. In my  opiniontherefore  in all such cases the severance is effected	fromthe date of the suit conditional on the court being able  tofind  that  the suit when filed was for the benefit  of	 theminor."The  same view has been taken in Ramsing v. Fakira  (2)	 andMandliprasad  v. Ramcharanlal (3), and we agree	 with  thesedecisions.On the conclusion reached above that it is the action of theperson	acting	on  behalf of a minor that  brings  about  adivision  in  status, it is necessary to  examine  what	 thenature of the jurisdiction is which the courts exercise whenthey decide whether a suit is for the benefit of a minor  ornot.   Now,  the  theory is that  the  Sovereign  as  parenspatriae has the power, and is indeed under a duty to protectthe  interests of minors, and that function has devolved  onthe  courts.  In the discharge of that function,  therefore,they  have the power to control all proceedings before	themwherein	 minors are concerned.	They can appoint  their	 ownofficers to protect their interests, and stay proceedings ifthey  consider that they are vexatious.	 In Halsbury's	Lawsof England, 3rd Edn., Vol.  XXI, p.	216,  para. 478,  itis stated as follows:"  Infants have always been treated as specially  under	 theprotection of the Sovereign, who, as parens patriae, had thecharge	 of  the  persons  not	capable	 of  looking   afterthemselves.   This  jurisdiction over infants  was  formerlydelegated  to and exercised by the Lord Chancellor;  throughhim it passed to the Court of Chancery, and is now vested inthe  Chancery Division of the High Court of Justice.  It  isindependent  of	 the  question whether the  infant  has	 anyproperty or not."(1)  (1933) I.T.R. 57 Mad. 95.(2) I.L.R. [1939] Bom. 256.(3) I.L.R. [1947] Nag. 848.1262It  is	in  the exercise of this  jurisdiction	that  courtsrequire to be, satisfied that the next friend of a minor hasin  instituting a suit for partition acted in his  interest.When,  therefore, the court decides that the suit  has	beeninstituted  for	 the  benefit  of  the	minor  and   decreespartition, it does so not by virtue of any rule, special  orpeculiar to Hindu law but in the exercise of a	jurisdictionwhich  is inherent in it and which extends over all  minors.The true effect of a, decision of a court that the action isbeneficial  to	the  minor is not to  create  in  the  minorproprio	 vigore a right which he did not possess before	 butto  recognise  the right which had accrued to him  when	 theperson	acting on his behalf instituted the  action.   Thus,what  brings about the severance in status is the action  ofthe  next friend in instituting the suit, the decree of	 thecourt  merely rendering it effective by deciding  that	whatthe next friend has done is for the benefit of the minor.It remains to consider one other argument advanced on behalfof  the appellants.  It was urged that the cause  of  actionfor a suit for partition by a minor was one personal to him,and that on his death before hearing, the suit must abate onthe  principle	of the maxim, actio personalis	moritur	 cumpersona.   But	that  maxim has application  only  when	 theaction	is  one for damages for a personal wrong, and  as  asuit  for  partition  is a suit for property,  the  rule  inquestion has no application to it.  That was the view  takenin  Rangasayi  v. Nagarathnamma (1) at pp.  137-138  and  inMandliprasad  v. Ramcharanlal (2) at p. 871, and we  are  inagreement with it.All  the  contentions urged in support of  the	appeal	havefailed, and the appeal is accordingly dismissed with costs.The  amounts  paid by the appellants to the  respondents  inpursuance  of the order of this Court dated March  7,  1958,will  be taken into account in adjusting the rights  of	 theparties under this decree.(1) (1933) I.L.R. 57 Mad. 95.Appeal dismissed.(2)  I.L.R. [1947] Nag. 848.1263