PETITIONER:THE RASHTRIYA MILL MAZDOOR SANGH,PAREL, BOMBAY AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE APOLLO MILLS LIMITED AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:10/03/1960BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.DAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1960 AIR  819		  1960 SCR  (3) 231 CITATOR INFO : D	    1986 SC1514	 (17)ACT:Industrial Dispute-Compensation for closure of Mills-Partialclosure due to shortage of Power-Government Order curtailingsupply of power-Standing Ordeys-Scope of-Bombay	 Electricity(Special  Powers) Act, 1946 (Bom.  XX of 1946),	 ss.  6A(1),11(1)--Bombay  Industrial Relations Act, 1946 (Bom.   XI  Of1947), ss. 40 (1), 73.HEADNOTE:In 1951 on account of the failure of the monsoon, generationof  electricity from the Hydro-Electric System was  affectedand  it	 was found necessary to reduce	the  consumption  ofelectricity.  The Government of Bombay passed an order unders.  6A(1)  of the Bombay Electricity (Special  Powers)	Act,1946,  regulating  the	use of	electrical  energy  and	 therespondent Mills were compelled to reduce the working  time.For the period during which the short working continued	 theworkers	 claimed  their	 wages and  dearness  allowances  orcompensation in lieu thereof.' The Industrial Court to whichthe  matter was referred for arbitration under S. 73 Of	 theBombay	Industrial  Relations  Act,  1946,  made  an   awarddirecting  all the respondent Mills to pay  compensation  tothe  employees.	 The Mills pleaded that no compensation	 waspayable	 because  (1)  the  closure  of	 the  Mills  was  inpursuance of the directions made by the Government under theBombay	 Electricity  (Special	Powers)	 Act,	1946,	and,therefore,  s. 11(1) of that Act barred the  reference,	 (2)the  Industrial Court had no jurisdiction to  entertain	 theclaim for compensation as the matter was covered by StandingOrders	16 and 17 which were determinative of the  relationsbetween	 the workmen and their employers under S.  40(1)  ofthe  Bombay Industrial Relations Act, 1946, and (3)  in	 anycase, no compensation was payable in view of the decision inMuir  Mills  Co. Ltd. v. Suti Mills Mazdoor  Union,  Kanpur,[1955] 1 S.C.R. 991:Held, (1) that s. 11 (1) of the Bombay Electricity  (SpecialPowers) Act, 1946, barred only proceedings arising from	 theinterference   with  the  supply  of  electric	energy	 andprotected  those  who acted in pursuance  of  orders  passedunder  that Act; the section did not prevent the raising  ofan industrial dispute.(2)that Standing Orders 16 and 17 contemplated only  casesof  compensation in lieu of notice and wages for the  periodof  closure,  and did not cover cases  of  compensation	 forclosure	 ;  that  the  provisions of S.	 73  of	 the  BombayIndustrial  Relations Act, 1946, were wide enough  to  coverthe  reference	in the present case and that the  claim	 forcompensation  was not barred by Standing Orders 16  and	 17,read with s. 40(1) of the Act.Digambar Ramachandra v.	 Khandesh Mills, (1949) 52 Bom. L.R.46, disapproved.232(3)that the decision in Muir Mills Co. Ltd. v. Suti  MillsMazdoor Union, Kanpur, was concerned only with the award  ofbonus and was not applicable to the present case.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 419 of 1956.Appeal by special leave from the decision dated January	 17,1955, of the Labour Appellate Tribunal, of India, Bombay, inAppeal (Bom.) No. 61 of 1954.N.C.  Chatterjee,  D. H. Buch and I. N	Shroff,	 for  theappellants.R.   J. Kolah, B. Narayanaswami, S. N. Andley, J. B.Dadachanji,  Rameshwar	Nath  and  P.  L.  Vohra,  for	 therespondents.1960.  March 10.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byHIDAYATULLAH, J.-This is an appeal with the special leave ofthis Court against- a decision dated January 17,1955, of theLabour Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter called the  AppellateTribunal) by which it reversed a decision of the  IndustrialCourt, Bombay, dated January 20, 1954, in a matter  referredto the Industrial Court under s. 73 of the Bombay IndustrialRelations  Act,	 1946,	by the Government  of  Bombay.	 Theappellant is the Rashtriya Mill Mazdoor Sangh,	representingthe  employees	of the cotton textile mills in the  city  ofGreater Bombay.	 The respondents are the Apollo Mills, Ltd.,and other companies owning cotton textile mills specified inthe  annexure  to the Special Leave Petition  and  the	MillOwners' Association, Bombay, representing the cotton textilemill  industry.	  The dispute relates  to  the	compensationwhich  the  workers claimed for loss of wages  and  dearnessallowances  due	 to  the short working	or  closure  of	 theTextile	 Mills	on certain days during	the  period  betweenNovember 1, 195 1, and July 13, 1952.The  facts  of	the case are as follows: In  the  year	1951monsoon	 failed,  and  caused  scarcity	 of  water  in	 thecatchment area of the Tata Hydro-Electric system, from whichthe   Mills  obtained  their  supply  of  power.   It	was,therefore,  found  necessary to reduce	the  consumption  ofelectricity,  and- Government, after consulting the  variousMills  and also the appellant Sangh, decided that the  Millsshould work, instead of23348 hours, for 40 hours per week during a period of 30  weeksfrom November 1, 1951.	It was also agreed that if the Millscould  reduce their consumption of electricity to  5/6th  oftheir normal consumption, then they could work for 48  hoursper  week as before.  Some of the Mills installed their	 owngenerators,  but  many others were compelled to	 reduce	 theworking	 time to 40 hours in a week, working at 8 hours	 perday.   As  a result, the working of some of  the  Mills	 wasreduced by one day in the week, and the Mills lost a maximumnumber	of  38 days, some more and some less.	One  of	 theMills  (the Ragbuvanshi Mills) remained closed only  on	 oneday.   The order of the Bombay Government was made under  s.6A(1) of the Bombay Electricity (Special Powers) Act,  1946.While  this  short working continued,  the  workers  claimedtheir wages and dearness allowances or compensation in	lieuthereof. Negotiations followed, but when they did not resultin anything to the advantage of the workers, the matter	 wasreferred  for  arbitration to the Industrial  Court  by	 theBombay	Government on October 30, 1952, under s. 73  of	 theBombay Industrial Relations Act, 1946.The  Mills raised the objection that the matter was  coveredby  Standing Orders 16 and 17, and inasmuch as	the  partialclosure of the Mills was due to force majeure, they were notliable.	  They contended that the Industrial Court had	thusno jurisdiction, as these Standing Orders were determinativeof  the	 relations between the workmen and  their  employersunder s. 40(1) of the Bombay Industrial Relations Act, 1946.They also submitted that the orders of the Government issuedunder the Bombay Electricity (Special Powers) Act, 1946, hadto  be	obeyed and therefore no	 compensation  was  payable.They  pointed  out that the employees  were  receiving	fairwages, and that the Mills were not in a position to bear  anadditional  burden, in view of the fact that they  had	losttheir  profits due to short working.  They relied  upon	 thedecision of the Bombay High Court in Digambar Ramachandra v.Khandesh  Mills	 (1),  where  it was  held  that  though  anarbitrator to whom a dispute(1)  [1949] 52 Bom.  L.R. 46.30234falling under B. 49A of the Bombay Industrial Disputes	Act,1938,  was referred had jurisdiction to decide the  disputeswithin	the terms of the Standing Orders framed under s.  26of  that  Act,	he  had no  jurisdiction  to  determine	 theliability  of the employers on grounds outside the  StandingOrders.The  Industrial	 Court, after hearing the parties,  made  anaward  on January 20, 1954, and directed all the  respondentMills  to  pay to the employees compensation,  holding	thatStanding  Orders  16 and 17 were not applicable,  and  were,therefore,  no bar.  The Industrial Court held that in	viewof  the provisions of ss. 3, 40(2), 42(4), 73 and 78 of	 theBombay Industrial Relations Act read with Sch. 111, item  7,and  having regard to the decision of the Federal  Court  inWestern India Automobile Association v Industrial  Tribunal,Bombay (1), it had jurisdiction to grant compensation.	 TheIndustrial  Court,  therefore, held that  on  principles  ofsocial	justice the workers were entitled  to  compensation,which  it assessed at the rate of 50 per cent. of the  wagesand dearness allowances which the workers would have  drawn,if the Mills had worked on the days they remained closed.Against that award, the Mill Owners' Association and two  ofthe  Mills appealed to the Appellate Tribunal, Bombay.	 Allthe  contentions  which were raised  before  the  industrialCourt were once again raised before the Appellate  Tribunal.Two  new contentions were raised, viz., that the  claim	 forcompensation  was  barred  under  s.  1	 1  of	the   BombayElectricity (Special Powers) Act, 1946, and was also  barredby the decision of the Supreme Court in the Muir Mills	Co.,Ltd. v. SutiMills Mazdoor Union, Kanpur (2).The  Appellate Tribunal by its decision now impugned  beforeus,  allowed  the  appeal, and set aside the  award  of	 theIndustrial Court, and dismissed the claim of the  employees.It  held that even if Standing Orders 16 and 17 covered	 thecase, the decision in Digambar Ramachandra's case (1)  couldnot now be applied because of the provisions of s. 40(2) andthe  addition of Sch. 111, item 7 in the  Bombay  IndustrialRelations  Act, which provisions did not find place  in	 theBombay(1) [1949] F.C.R. 321.	  (2) [1955] 1 S.C.R 991.(3) [1949] 52 Bom.  L.R. 46235Industrial  Disputes Act, 1938, under which the decision  ofthe  Bombay  High Court was given.  The	 Appellate  Tribunalreferred  to the Federal Court decision cited  earlier,	 andobserved  that	there  was  no	doubt  that  the  award	  ofcompensation  to  workmen equal to half of their  wages	 anddearness  allowances  was  fair	 and  just.   The  Tribunal,however, felt compelled by the decision of this Court in theMuir Mills case (1) to reject the claim of the workers,	 andallowed	 the  appeal.	In  this view  of  the	matter,	 theAppellate  Tribunal  did  not decide whether s.	 II  of	 theBombay	Electricity (Special Powers) Act, 1946,	 barred	 thegrant of compensation.The  appellant	in this case first contended that  the	MuirMills case (1) did not apply, and further that if that	casewas  out of the way, then in view of the other	findings  ofthe  Appellate Tribunal and s. 7 of the Industrial  Disputes(Appellate  Tribunal)  Act, 1950, the appeal ought  to	havefailed, since no question of law survived and the  AppellateTribunal was incompetent to reverse the decision.  The	MillOwners'	 Association, on the other hand" contended that	 theopinion	 of the Appellate Tribunal that the Muir Mills	case(1)  applied,  was  correct,  that  s.	II  of	the   BombayElectricity  (Special Powers) Act barred these	proceedings,and  that, in view of the fact that the closure was  due  toforce  majeure	for which the Milks  were  not	responsible,Standing  Orders  16  and  17  were  determinative  of	 therelations between the parties and the claim for compensationwas  not entertainable.	 Other objections raised before	 theAppellate Tribunal were not pressed before us.We begin first with the question whether s. 11 of the BombayElectricity (Special Powers) Act, 1946 barred the reference.That section reads as follows:"  11 (1).  No suit, prosecution or other  legal  proceedingshall  lie against any person for anything which is in	goodfaith done or intended to be done in pursuance of any order,direction  or requirement made or deemed to have  been	madeunder section 3, 4, 5, 6, 6A, 6B or 6C."(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 991.236The  order which was made in this case by the Government  ofBombay was under sub-s. (1) of s. 6A, which reads:" 6A(1).  Notwithstanding anything contained in any law	 forthe  time  being in force, or any permission  granted  undersub-section (3) of section 5 or any instrument having effectby  virtue of any law, the Provincial Government may with  aview to controlling distribution, supply, consumption or useof electrical energy make an order-(a)for	 prohibiting   or  regulating  subject	 to   suchconditions as it may specify in the, order,-the distributionor supply of electrical energy by a licensee or use of	suchenergy	by  a  consumer for-any purpose	 specified  in	suchorder;(b)  for determining the order of priority in  which,or	 theperiod	or  periods during which, work shall be done  by  anundertaking to which the supply of electrical energy is madeby a licensee."It was contended by the respondents that sub-s. (1) of s. 11quoted	above barred the remedy of arbitration, because	 theclosure of the Mills was in good faith, and was in pursuanceof  a  direction or order made under s.	 6A(1).	  Mr.  Kolahreferred  to the scheme of the Bombay  Electricity  (SpecialPowers)	 Act,  and specially to the  sections  dealing	withpenalties  and	offenses and contended that the	 Mills	werehelpless  and  were  compelled to  close  down	their  esta-blishments  for	 part  of the time.   He  claimed  that	 theprotection  of s. 11(1) was available' to them., and  arguedthat it gave immunity from action of any kind.The present proceedings are for compensation for, the periodduring which the Mills remained closed.	 This claim is	madeby the workers against the Mills.  The section which confersimmunity bars proceedings &rising from the interference withthe supply of electrical energy and its consumption.  It  isa  protection to the supplier of electrical  energy  againstthe consumer and vice versa, and protects also those who actto enforce the order.  There is no complaint here about	 thereduction  of electricity or even about the closure  of	 theMills for part of the time.  Neither the237Mills  nor  the	 workers have raised  any  such	 contention.Further,  the  sub-section is a protection clause  which  isusually introduced in an Act, where it gives new or  unusualpowers,	 and is designed to give immunity to persons  actingunder  or enforcing it.	 The ambit of the protection  is  inrelation to the supply and consumption of electricity  whichalone  are curtailed by the order issued- under s. 6A(1)  ofthe  Act.  The protection conferred by the first  subsectionof  s.	11 does not, therefore, prevent the  raising  of  anindustrial  dispute resulting in an award for the  equitablesharing	 of  loss which had been occasioned  to.,  both	 theemployers and the employees by the observance of the order.The contention that the Industrial Court had no jurisdictionto hear the reference because the State Government could notmake  it,  was not pressed by the respondents,	and  nothingneed, therefore, be said about it.  It was raised in anotherform,  as  will	 appear in the sequel.	 Both  the  parties,however, criticised the order of the Appellate Tribunal, therespondents challenging the findings adverse to them.  It isnow necessary to deal with these contentions.The  case of the appellant was that the	 Appellate  Tribunalhad  no	 jurisdiction  to interfere with the  order  of	 theIndustrial  Court,  because  the appeal before	it  did	 notinvolve	 a ',.Substantial question of law and did  not	fallwithin	any of the eight matters mentioned in s. 7(1)(b)  ofthe  Industrial	 Disputes (Appellate  Tribunal)	 Act,  1950,which gave appellate jurisdiction to the Appellate Tribunal.The  appellant referred to cases in which it has  been	heldthat  the Appellate Tribunal could not interfere  on  facts.It is not necessary to analyse those cases for reasons whichwe proceed to state.The  Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act  conferredappellate  powers on the Appellate Tribunal, if there was  asubstantial  question of law arising from the award, or	 thematter	 fell	within	eight  enumerated   subjects.	 Therespondents attempted to bring the matter within cl. (1)  ofs.  7(1)(b) that is to say' " wages ", which is one  of	 theeight  subjects.  But there is no question here of wages  assuch but of238compensation.	Learned	 counsel for  the  respondents	alsoargued	that  a conclusion drawn without  adverting  to	 theevidence  involved a question of law and a  legal  inferencefrom  proved facts and an appeal thus lay.  He	relied	uponAnglo-Iranian  Oil  Co. (India) Ltd. v.	 Petroleum  Workers'Union (1) and Crompton Parkinson (Works) v. Its Workmen (2).It  may	 not be necessary to discuss the matter	 at  length,because	 even if the subject-matter did not fall within	 anyof  the	 eight enumerated topics, there	 was  a	 substantialquestion  of law involved, inasmuch as it was  necessary  todecide	whether a claim for compensation was not  admissiblein view of the provisions of the Bombay Industrial RelationsAct  and  the  Standing Orders.	 It  has  been	pointed	 outalready	 that the failure to continue to employ	 labour	 wasdue  to	 the  short supply of  electrical  energy,  and	 thequestion   is  whether	in  these  admitted   circumstances,Standing  Orders 16 and 17 read with s. 40(1) and item 9  ofSch.  1 of the Bombay Industrial Relations Act rendered	 theemployers  immune from a claim for compensation for loss  ofwages and dearness allowances.	The respondents claimed thatthey did, while the appellant maintained that they did	not,and referred to ss. 40(2), 42(4), 73 and 78(1)(A) and item 7of  Sch.   III	of  the same Act.   This  is  a	 substantialquestion of law, and the appeal was thus competent.The crux of the matter is the provisions of Standing  Orders16 and 17, which are to be read with s. 40(1) of the  BombayIndustrial Relations Act.  Standing Orders 16 and 17 read asfollows16.The Company may, at any time or times, in the event	ofa  fire, catastrophe, breakdown of machinery or stoppage  ofthe power supply, epidemic, civil commotion or other  cause,beyond	the  control  of the Company, stop  any	 machine  ormachines  or department or departments, wholly or  partiallyfor  any  period  or periods,  without	notice	and  withoutcompensation in lieu of notice.In  the	 event of a stoppage of any  machine  or  departmentunder  this  Order  during  working  hours,  the  operativesaffected shall be notified by notices(1) [1951] 2 L.L.J. 770.(2) [1959] SUPP. 2 S.C.R. 936.239put  upon notice boards in the department concerned  and  atthe time-keeper's office, as soon as practicable, when	workwill be resumed and whether they are to remain or leave	 themill.	The  period  of	 detention in  the  mill  shall	 notordinarily  exceed  one hour after the commencement  of	 thestoppage.   If the period of detention does not	 exceed	 onehour,  operatives  so  detained shall not be  paid  for	 theperiod of detention.  If the period of detention in the millexceeds	 one hour, operatives so detained shall be  entitledto receive wages for the whole of the time during which theyare  detained in the mill as a result of the  stoppage.	  Inthe case of pieceworkers, the average daily earnings for theprevious month shall be taken to be the daily wages.17.Any	operative played-off Linder Order 16 shall not	beconsidered  as	dismissed from service, but  as	 temporarilyunemployed,  and shall not be entitled to wages during	suchunemployment  except  to the extent mentioned in  Order	 16.Whenever  practicable a reasonable notice shall be given  ofresumption of normal work and all operatives playedoff underOrder  16, who present themselves for work, when the  normalworking	  is   resumed,	  shall	  have	 prior	 right	  ofreinstatement."The  argument  of the respondents was-	two-fold:  (1)	thatthese  two  Standing Orders fully covered a closure  due  tostoppage of power, and (2) that under s. 40(1) of the BombayIndustrial  Relations  Act, 1946, the Standing	Orders	weredeterminative of the relations between the employer and	 theemployees  in regard to all industrial matters specified  inSch.  1, which contains the following items :-" 4. Closure or reopening of a department or a section of  adepartment or the whole of the undertaking" and"  9. Temporary closures of work including playing  off	 andrights and liabilities of employers and employees........"They also invoked the decision in Digambar Ramachndra's case(1),  and added that the position had not been altered	evenby the addition of the second sub-(1)  [1949] 52 Bom.  L.R. 46.240section to s. 40 in the Bombay Industrial Relations Act.We may at this stage read s. 40:" 40. (1) Standing orders in respect of an employer and	 hisemployees  settled under this Chapter and in  operation,  orwhere  there  are no such standing  orders,  model  standingorders,	 if  any, applicable under the	provisions  of	sub-section	 (5)  of section 35 shall be  determinative  of	 therelations  between the employer and his employees in  regardto all industrial matters specified in Schedule I.(2)Notwithstanding  anything contained in  subsection  (1)the  State  Government	may  refer,  or	 an  employee  or  arepresentative union may apply in respect of any dispute  ofthe  nature  referred  to in clause (a) of  paragraph  A  ofsection 78, to a Labour Court."The  respondents  contended that only the  first  subsectionapplied,  and  that under Standing Orders 16 and  17  quotedabove, no compensation was claimable.  The appellant pointedout  that  the second sub-section excluded  the	 first	sub-section, because of the nonobstructive clause with which  itis  prefaced and in view of the position of  the  IndustrialCourt  as the appellate authority from awards of the  LabourCourt,	the  former  was not also bound by  the	 first	sub-section or the Standing Orders.	 There is some force in	 thecontention  of the appellant, but, in our opinion,  StandingOrders	16  and 17 do not, in terms, apply to  a  claim	 forcompensation such as is made here.  Standing Order 16 speaksof stoppage "without notice and without compensation in lieuof notice." The compensation which is claimed by the workersin this case is not in lieu of notice, that is to say, for aperiod	equal to that in respect of which notice would	havehad  to be given.  That period would be before the  date  ofclosure.   The	Standing Order contemplates those  cases  inwhich  a  notice  has  to be  dispensed	 with  and  then  nocompensation  in  lieu	of notice  is  payable.	  There	 is,however,  here a question of quite a different sort, and  itis not covered by Standing Order 16, even though the closurewas  by	 reason	 of stoppage of power.	 Standing  Order  17speaks of "wages", and41241we  are not concerned with wages here but with	compensationwhich  is not the same thing as wages.	In this view of	 thematter,	 Standing Orders 16 and 17 cannot be said  to  coverthe   present	facts,	 and  they   are   not,	  therefore,determinative of the relations between the parties.-The  present  dispute was referred to the  Industrial  Courtunder s. 73(2) of the Bombay Industrial Relations Act, 1946.That  section  reads  as  follows:"Notwithstanding  anythingcontained  in  this Act, the State Government  may,  at	 anytime, refer an industrial dispute to the arbitration of	 theIndustrial Court, if on a report made by the Labour  Officeror otherwise it is satisfied that-(2)the	dispute	 is  not likely to  be	settled	 by  othermeans;".The  non-obstante clause clearly shows that in spite of	 theother provisions of the Bombay Industrial Relations Act,  anindustrial dispute may be referred to the Industrial  Court.An  industrial	dispute as defined in that Act	means  interalia  any  dispute  or difference between  an  employer	 andemployee  or  between  employers  and  employees,  which  isconnected  with	 an industrial matter,	which  includes	 allmatters	 pertaining to non-employment of any  person.	Thatthese workmen were not employed on certain days goes withoutsaying, and thus, there was an industrial dispute concerningtheir  claim  for  compensation	 for  the  period  of	non-employment.   Item  9  of Sch.	1 gave the  power  to  frameStanding  Orders  in relation to  temporary  closures.	 TheStanding  Orders made covered only compensation in  lieu  ofnotice	and  wages  for	 the  period  of  closure,  but	 notcompensation  for closure.  In the view which we have  takenof  the	 Standing  Orders, it is  not  necessary  to  decidewhether item 7 of Sch.	III relates only to compensation forpermanent  closure,  or whether item 9 of Sch.	1  gave	 thepower to make a Standing Order relating to compensation	 fortemporary closure.  It is enough to say that Standing Orders16  and	 17,  as  they	stand,	do  not	 cover	a  case	  ofcompensation for closure.242The powers of the Industrial Court under s. 73 of the BombayIndustrial  Relations  Act are very wide,  inasmuch  as	 theState  Government  can refer an industrial  dispute  to	 it,notwithstanding	 anything contained in the Act.	 It  was  inview  of this that the objection to the jurisdiction of	 theIndustrial  Court  was not pressed.  But  the  argument	 wasadvanced in another form to show that Standing Orders 16 and17  were  determinative and did not  enable  the  IndustrialCourt  to  decide in any manner except	in  accordance	withthose  Standing	 Orders.   Reliance  was  also	placed	uponDigambar  Ramachandra's	 case (1), where Chagla,  C.J.,	 andBhagwati,  J., decided that the arbitrator was bound by	 theStanding  Orders and could not go outside them.	 We  are  ofopinion	 that Standing Orders 16 and 17 do not apply to	 thepresent facts for reasons already stated, and we express ourdissent	 from  that decision in so far as it held  that	 theStanding  Orders covered a case of compensation for  closurealso.	We  note  further  that	 in  the  Bombay  IndustrialDisputes Act, 1938, there was no item similar to the one  inSch.   III  of	the Bombay  Industrial	Relations  Act.	  InTextile	  Labour   Association,	  Ahmedabad   v.   AhmedabadMillowners'  Association, Ahmedabad (2), Sir H. V.  Divatia,Rajadhyaksha,  J.,  and	 Mr. D. V. Vyas	 (later,  Vyas,	 J.)correctly held that the Standing Orders did not cover a caseof  compensation  for  loss  of	 earnings.   The  head	noteadequately  summarises the decision, and may be quoted.	  Itreads:"  Although  the workers are not entitled  to  demand  theirwages  during the period of stoppage of work as that  matterhas  been  (sic)  covered by the Standing  Orders  there  isnothing	 to  prevent them from giving any notice  of  changedemanding  compensation for the loss of their earnings.	  Itcannot be said that the jurisdiction of the Court is  barredby the provisions of Standing Orders Nos. 16 & 17.". No doubt, the reference there was under s. 43 of the BombayIndustrial  Disputes Act, 1938; but the provisions of s.  73of  the Bombay Industrial Relations Act are wide  enough  tocover a reference on the same topic.  We are, therefore,  ofopinion that the claim(1) [1949] 52 Bom.  L.R. 46.(2) 1946-47 Industial Court Reporter 87.243for compensation was not barred by Standing Orders 16 and 17read with a. 40(1) of the Bombay Industrial Relations Act.The  respondents  further contended that  the  principle  ofsocial justice applied by the Industrial Court and  acceptedby  the	 Appellate Tribunal could not apply because  of	 thedecision  of  this Court in the Muir Mills case	 (1).	Theyalso  contended	 that the case for bonus was  decided  alongwith the present case and both bonus and dearness allowanceswere  increased by the Appellate Tribunal in respect  of  38Mills  and even the remaining 15 Mills which  had  ,sufferedloss had given minimum bonus to their workers.	They  arguedthat  wages  were fair and bonus was  awarded  and  dearnessallowance  was	increased, and that the	 Appellate  Tribunaltook  all this into account in refusing compensation.	Theysubmitted that the Mills suffered heavy losses due to  shortworking,  and that it was sheer injustice to make  them	 paywages  or compensation for days on which the  Mills  reminedclosed	and  lost their profits through stoppage  of  normalworking.The  Muir  Mills case (1) was concerned with  the  award  ofbonus, which is linked with profits.  It was there laid downthat  inasmuch	as  the labour	employed  in  an  industrialundertaking is ever changing, the award of bonus can only befrom  the  profits to which labour in  any  particular	yearcontributed  and  labour  cannot  claim	 that  profits	 andreserves of some other years should be used for the  purposeof  giving  them bonus.	 We are not concerned in  this	casewith the award of bonus as such, and we need not, therefore,make use of the reasons which appealed to this Court in thatcase.	The  narrow sphere in which social  justice  demandsthat  workmen going into forced unemployment should  receivecompensation  is  quite different.  Social  justice  is	 notbased on contractual relations and is not to be enforced  onthe  principles	 of contract of service.   It  is  somethingoutside	 these	principles,  and is invoked  to	 do  justicewithout	 a  contract to back it.  Mahajan, J.  (as  he	thenwas),  observed in Western India Automobile  Association  v.Industrial Tribunal, Bombay (2) as follows:(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 991.(2) [1949] F.C.R. 321.244"  Adjudication does not, in our opinion, mean	adjudicationaccording  to  the strict law of master	 and  servant.	 Theaward of the Tribunal may contain provisions for  settlementof  a dispute which no Court could order if it was bound  byordinary law, but the Tribunal is not fettered in any way bythese  limitations.   In Volume 1 of I Labour  Disputes	 andCollective Bargaining' by Ludwig Teller, it is said at	page536 that industrial arbitration may involve the extension ofan  existing  agreement or the making of a new	one,  or  ingeneral the creation of a, new obligation or modification ofold  ones, while commercial arbitration	 generally  concernsitself	with the interpretation of existing obligations	 anddisputes  relating to existing agreements.  In our  opinion,it is a true statement about the functions of an  IndustrialTribunal in labour disputes.  "Here,  what  better measure could have been adopted  by	 theIndustrial  Court  (which  is  approved	 by  the   AppellateTribunal) than to divide the loss into two parts, one to  beborne  by  the	industrial concerns and	 the  other  by	 theworkmen ? There is no other basis suggested by the one	sideor the other.  It was contended that the loss to labour wentinto  the consideration of the grant of bonus, and that	 thetwo cases were heard together.	The Appellate Tribunal	saysso. But bonus is to come out of profits and is the share  oflabour	in the profits it has helped to earn, to bridge	 thegap  between  wages  as	 they  are  and	 the  living   wage.Compensation in the present context is for loss of wages anddearness  allowance,  and  the	two  cannot  be	  consideredtogether on any principle.  There is nothing to show that inspite  of  the	formula which  the  Appellate  Tribunal	 hadevolved for itself, it took into account some other  factorsquite alien to the said formula.  It appears to us that whatthe Appellate Tribunal really meant to say was that inasmuchas  the	 workers  were paid bonus they	should	not  make  agrievance if they lost wages on some of the days, because ifcompensation  were paid bonus would have had to be  reduced.If  that  is  the  meaning, as it  obviously  is,  then	 thequestion  of  compensation was not decided at all.   In	 ouropinion, this reasoning was245beside the point.  It was wholly immaterial whether  profitswere  made  or	losses were incurred in	 the  year,  if	 theemployers  continued to retain the labour force so as to  beavailable for the days on which the Mills worked.In  our	 opinion,  the Appellate  Tribunal  after  giving  afinding	 that  a claim for compensation equal to  half	 thewages and dearness allowances was just and proper, erred  inholding	 that it was not admissible because of the  decisionof this Court in the Muir Mills case (1).  That case had  noapplication to the facts here.	The Appellate Tribunal	alsoerred in declining to grant compensation on the ground	thatsince bonus was granted the claim for compensation could notbe  entertained.  The case of badli workers does not  appearto have been separately raised, and we see no reason not  toaward  them compensation ; but payment of such	compensationwill be subject to the same condition, as was imposed by theIndustrial Court.In the result, the appeal will be, allowed, the order of theAppellate Tribunal set aside and the order of the IndustrialCourt  restored.  The respondents shall bear the costs	hereand in the Tribunals below.Appeal allowed.