PETITIONER:DOLGOBINDA PARICHA	Vs.RESPONDENT:NIMAI CHARAN MISRA & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:27/04/1959BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.SUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  914		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 814 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1977 SC2002	 (5) R	    1983 SC 684	 (140)ACT:Evidence-Admissibility--Joint  statement of  three  Persons-Admissibility under s. 32(5) of the Evidence Act, when	onlyone  is dead-Opinion as to Relationship-Conduct as  evidenceof  opinion-  Proof of	conduct-Direct	evidence--"Opinion",meaning	 of--Indian  Evidence  Act, 1872 (1  of	 1872),	 ss.32(5),50, 60.HEADNOTE:On the death of H, who as the mother of the last male  ownerhad  succeeded	to the estate, the respondents	claimed	 theestate	and brought a suit for its recovery on the  strengthof the pedigree which they set up that they were the sons ofthe  halfsisters of the last male owner and  therefore	camebefore	the agnates.  The suit was contested by some of	 theagnates,  of whom the appellant was one, who challenged	 thecorrectness  of	 the  pedigree,	 and  maintained  that	 therespondents'  mothers were not the half-sisters of the	lastmale  owner.  The trial court agreed with  the	respondents'case and decreed the suit and this was confirmed by the HighCourt.	 The  High Court relied on Ex. 1, a  petition  datedNovember 2, 1917, which S, one of the brothers of the  thirdplaintiff,  on his own behalf and on behalf of his  brothershad filed in Suit NO. 31 Of 19I7 which was a suit institutedby  some  of  the agnates of  H's  husband  questioning	 thealienations made by H. In the petition,, S alleged that	 theapplicants were the legal claimants to the properties in thesuit  and prayed to be added as co-defendants to  the  suit.The  petition  contained  a  pedigree  which  supported	 thepedigree set up815by the respondents, and the High Court held that Ex.  I	 wasadmissible  under S. 32(5) of the Indian Evidence Act.	 Theoral   evidence	 of  P.W.  2  and  P.W.	 4   supported	 therespondents' case as to the pedigree set up by them and	 theHigh Court held that their evidence was admissible under  s.50  Of	the Indian Evidence Act.  On appeal to	the  SupremeCourt,	it was contended for the appellant (1) that  Ex.   Iwas not admissible under s. 32(5) Of the Indian Evidence Actbecause	 (a) the statement therein was a joint statement  ofthree persons of whom one alone was dead, and (b) it was notmade before disputes had arisen ; and (2) that the testimonyof  P.W. 2 and P.W. 4 did not fall within the purview Of  s.50 Of the Indian Evidence Act and that the High Court  erredin admitting and accepting such evidence.Held:	  (1)  that s. 32(5) Of the Indian Evidence Act	 wasapplicable  to	the  statements as to  pedigree	 in  Ex.   Ibecause	 :  (a) they were really made by S for self  and  onbehalf of his brothers, and that, in any case, they were  asmuch  statements of S as of the other two brothers  who	 arealive.Chandra Nath Roy v. Nilamadhab Bhattacharjee, (1898)  I.L.R.26 Cal. 236, approved.(b)  they  were made before the precise question in  disputein  the	 present litigation had arisen, as  the	 respondentswere not preferential heirs at the time of the previous suitand  no question arose or could have arisen then as  to	 therelationship between them and the last male owner.(2)  that  the evidence of P.W. 2 and P.W. 4 that they	werepresent	  at the marriage of the mother of plaintiffs 1	 and2 as also at   the Upanayanam ceremonies of plaintiffs 1 and2,  showed  the	 opinion  of  those  witnesses	as  to	 therelationship   as  expressed  by  their	 conduct,  and	 wasadmissible under s. 50 Of the Indian Evidence Act.The  word  " opinion " in S. 50 Of the Indian  Evidence	 Actmeans  something  more	than mere  retailing  of  gossip  orhearsay; it means judgment or belief, that is, a belief or aconviction  resulting from what one thinks on  a  particularquestion.  Such belief or conviction may manifest itself  inconduct	 or behaviour which indicates the existence  of	 thebelief or opinion.Under S. 50 such conduct or outward behaviour as evidence ofthe opinion held is relevent and may be proved.Chander	 Lal  Agarwala v. Khalilay Rahman, I.L.R.  [1942]  2Cal. 299, approved.Conduct,  as  an external perceptible fact,  may  be  provedeither by the testimony of the person himself whose  opinionis  evidence under s. 50 or by some other person  acquaintedwith  the  facts  which express such  opinion,	and  as	 thetestimony  must	 relate to external facts  which  constituteconduct	 and is given by persons personally acquainted	withsuch facts, the testimony is in each case direct within	 themeaning of s. 60 of the Indian Evidence Act.816The  observations  'of	Hutchins, J., in  Queen	 Empress  v.Subbarayan, (1885) I.L.R. 9 Mad. 9, that s. 50 of the IndianEvidence Act seems to imply that a person whose opinion is arelevant  fact cannot be called to state his own opinion  asexpressed by his conduct and that his conduct may be  provedby  others  only  when	he is  dead  or	 cannot	 be  called,disapproved.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 206 of 1954.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated March 9, 1951,  ofthe Orissa High Court in- Appeal from Original decree No. 14of  1946,  arising  out of the	judgment  and  decree  datedJanuary	 31,  1946,  of the Court of  Subordinate  Judge  atSambalpur in Title Suit No. 16 of 1944.L.   K.	 Jha,  Rameshwar  Nath,	 S.  N.	 Andley	 and  J.  B.Dadachanji, for the appellant.S. C. Issacs and R. Patnaik, for the respondents.1959.  April 27.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byS.   K. DAS, J.-This appeal on a certificate granted by	 theHigh Court of Orissa is from the judgment and decree of	 thesaid   High  Court  dated  March  9,  1951,  by	  which	  itsubstantially	affirmed   the	decision  of   the   learnedSubordinate Judge of Sambalpur in Title Suit No. 16 of	1944except for a modification of the decree for damages  awardedby  the latter.	 Two questions of law arise in this  appeal,one relating to the interpretation of s. 32, sub-s. (5)	 andthe  other to S. 50 of the Indian Evidence Act (I of  1872),hereinafter referred to as the Evidence Act.The material facts relating to the appeal are susceptible ofa-simple and concise statement.	 Three persons Nimai  CharanMisra,	Lakshminarayan	Misra and Baikuntha Pati  brought  asuit  for  a declaration of their title to and	recovery  ofpossession  of	certain properties details whereof  are	 notnecessary  for	our purpose.  This suit was  numbered  TitleSuit  16  of 1944 in the court of the Subordinate  Judge  ofSambalpur.   The  claim of the plaintiffs,  now	 respondentsbefore us, was founded on the following pedigree:-817		  Sankarsan   Balaram				   BhubanaBaidyanath   Raghunath	Purushottam  Satyabhama=   Lokanath=			      Haripriya			      alias Srihari			      (died 1942)			      (2nd wife)			      Satyananda			    (died 1902)Natabar Deft. 1		      Janardan		       Devendra Deft. 3Radha Krushna		      Dolgovind	     RamhariDeft. 4			      Deft. 5	     Deft. 6   Must. Ahalya	    Mst. Brindabati	Mst. Malabati  (dead) married    (dead) married.	(dead) married.  Lakhan Pati.	    Raghumani.		Mandhata Misra.Satyabadi Dasarath  Baikuntha	Nimai	  Lakshminarayanm(dead)	  (Deft.8)  (Plaintiff3) Plaintiff1  Plaintiff2   (given in   adoption   in another   family).818The  last  male	 owner was  Satyananda	who  died  unmarriedsometime in 1902-1903, and his mother Haripriya succeeded tothe estate.  She lived till 1942; but in 1916 she had sold aportion	 of  the  property  to	one  Indumati,	daughter  ofDharanidhar  Misra (plaintiffs' witness no. 4) and  some  ofthe  reversioners,  namely, Natabar and Janardan,  who	wereagnates of Haripriya's husband Lokenath Parichha, brought  asuit challenging the alienation.  This suit was Suit No.  31of  1917 in the court of the Subordinate  Judge,  Sambalpur.The suit was decreed on August 31, 1918, and the  alienationwas  declared to be without legal necessity and not  bindingon the reversion after the death of Haripriya.	In 1929	 waspassed	the Hindu Law of Inheritance (Amendment) Act (II  of1929)  which inter alia gave to a sister's -son a  place  inthe order of Mitakshara succession higher than the  agnates;before	the amending Act a sister's son ranked as a  bandhu,but  under  it	he succeeded next  after  the  sister.	 Thequestion  whether  a  half-sister was entitled	to  get	 thebenefit	 of  the amending Act gave rise to a  difference  ofopinion,  but the Privy Council held in 1942,  settling	 thedifference  then existing between the various  High  Courts,that the term I sister' included a 'half-sister'; but a fullsister	and  a	half-sister did not take  together  and	 thelatter	took only in default of the full sister.  (See	Mst.Sahodra	 v.  Ram  Babu	(1)  ).	 The  plaintiffs-respondentsclaimed	 on the strength of the pedigree which they  set  upthat  they  were sons of the half-sister  of  Satyanand	 andtherefore came before the agnates. The  suit was contested by some of the defendants who	wereagnates	 of  Lokenath  Paricha	and  of	 whom  the   presentappellant was one.  The contesting defendants challenged thecorrectness  of	 the  pedigree alleged	by  the	 plaintiffs-respondents and their main case was that Ahalya and Malabatiwere  -not  the	 daughters of  Lokenath	 Parichha  but	weredaughters  of  Baidyanath Misra, father of  Haripriya.	 Therelevant pedigree which the appellant set up was-(1)  (1942) L.R. 69 I.A. I45.819	Baidyanath MisraHaripriya  Bisseswar	 AliaJ	   Malabati(died on      Misra Laksh     Pati Mandhata6-4-1942)     DayasagarSatyanand  Sushila P. W. 3(died in 1903)	       Dasarathi   Baikuntha			    Plff. 3		 Nimai	    Lakshmi-		 Plff.1	    narayan.			   Plff. 2.As  the	 High Court has put it,	 the  essential	 controversybetween	 the  parties  centred round  the  question  if	 theplaintiffs-respondents	were  the sons of the  daughters  ofLokenath  Parichha  by his first wife Satyabhama.   On	thisquestion   the	parties	 gave  both  oral  and	 documentaryevidence.   On a consideration of that evidence the  learnedSubordinate  Judge  held  that they were  the  sons  of	 thedaughters of Lokenath Parichha and on that finding the	suitwas decreed.  There was an appeal to the High Court, and  itaffirmed the finding Of the learned Subordinate Judge.	 TheHigh  Court  relied on Ex. 1, a petition dated	November  2,1917, which Satyabadi on his own behalf and on behalf of hisbrothers  Baikunth Pati and Dasarath Pati had filed in	SuitNo.  31	 of 1917; this petition contained a  pedigree  whichshowed that Ahalya, Brindabati, and Malabati were  daughtersof  Lokenath  Parichha	by his	first  wife  and  Satyabadi,Baikunth and Dasarath were the sons of Ahalya.	The admissi-bility	of  this document was challenged on  behalf  of	 theappellant,  but	 the learned Judges of the High	 Court	heldthat the document was admissible under s.    32(5)  of	 theEvidence Act.  The contention before us is that the documentwas not so admissible, and this is one of the questions	 fordecision before us.As  to	the  oral evidence, Narasimham, J.,  held  that	 thetestimony given by three of the witnesses of the plaintiffs-respondents, namely, Janardan Misra (plaintiffs' witness no.2),   Sushila  Misrain	(plaintiffs'  witness  no.  3)	 andDharanidhar Misra (plaintiffs' witness no. 4)was  admissibleunder s. 50 of the Evidence Act, and820he  relied on that testimony in support of the pedigree	 setup by the plaintiffs-respondents.  The learned Chief Justicerelied on the evidence of Dharanidbar Misra which be held tobe  admissible but with regard to the. other two  witnesses,he said-"  With regard to the other two witnesses relied on  by	 theplaintiffs namely that of P. Ws. 2 (Janardan Misra, aged 62)and 3 (Susila Misrani, aged 43) knowledge of relevant  factsas to relationships can seldom be attributed to them.  Theirevidence,  though  true, and otherwise acceptable,  must  bebased  upon  their  having heard the  declarations  of	suchmembers	 of the family as were their contemporaries or	uponthe tradition or reputation as to family descent handed downfrom generation to generation and recognised and adopted  bythe  family generally.	This may partly, if not	 wholly,  bebased upon conduct within the meaning of section 50, such astreating  and recognising the mothers of the  plaintiffs  asLokenath's  daughters, and the plaintiffs as his  daughter'ssons.  They, judged from their respective ages, could not beconsidered to have direct knowledge of the matters in issue.Scanning their evidence closely, I find that they have in noway deposed about such conduct of the members of the  familyof  Lokenatb  as  could be attributed to  the  knowledge  orbelief	or consciousness of those who had special  means  ofknowledge of the relationships or that the relationship	 wasrecognised  and	 adopted by the family	generally.   In	 thecircumstances,	 I   entertain	 some  doubt   as   to	 theacceptability of their statements in evidence."On  behalf of the appellant, it has been contended that	 thetestimony  of  none of the aforesaid  three  witnesses	fellwithin the purview of s. 50 of the Evidence Act and the HighCourt was in error in admitting and accepting that  evidenceor  any part thereof, and according to learned	counsel	 forthe appellant, the whole of it was hearsay pure and  simple-some  of it being even second or third-hand  hearsay.	Thusthe  second question for our consideration is if the  testi-mony of the witnesses mentioned above or of any of them,  is'admissible evidence within the meaning of s.	  50 of	 theEvidence Act.821We  proceed  to	 consider the second  question	first.	 TheEvidence  Act states that the expression " facts in issue  "means  and includes any fact from which either by itself  orin   connection	 with  other  facts  the   existence,	non-existence,  nature  or	extent of any  right,  liability  ordisability  asserted  or denied in any	suit  or  proceedingnecessarily  follow; "evidence" means and includes  (1)	 allstatements  which the Court permits or requires to  be	madebefore it by witnesses in relation to matters of fact  underenquiry ; and (2) all documents produced for the  inspectionof the Court.  It further states that one fact is said to berelevant to another when the one is connected with the otherin any one of the ways referred to in the provisions of	 theEvidence Act relating to the relevancy of facts.  Section  5of the Evidence Act lays down that evidence may be given  inany suit or proceeding of the existence or non-existence  ofevery fact in issue and 'of such other facts as are declaredto  be relevant and of no others.  It is in the	 context  ofthese  provisions  of  the  Evidence Act  that	we  have  toconsider  s. 50 which occurs in Chapter 11, headed " Of	 theRelevancy  of Facts Section 50, in so far as it is  relevantfor our purpose, is in these terms:-"  S. 50.  When the Court has to form an opinion as  to	 therelationship   of  one	person	to  another,  the   opinion,expressed   by	conduct,  as  to  the  existence   of	suchrelationship,  of any person who, as a member of the  familyor otherwise, has special means of knowledge on the subject,is a relevant factOn a plain reading of the section it is quite clear that  itdeals  with  relevancy of a particular fact.  It  states  ineffect that when the Court has to form an opinion as to	 therelationship of one person to another the opinion  expressedby  conduct as to the existence of such relationship of	 anyperson who has special means of knowledge on the subject  ofthat relationship is a relevant fact.  The two illustrationsappended to the section clearly bring out the true scope andeffect of the section.	It appears to us that the  essentialrequirements  of the section are-(I) there, must be  a	casewhere the court has to form an opinion as to the   822relationship  of one person to another; (2) in such  a,case,the opinion expressed by conduct as to the existence of suchrelationship  is  a relevant fact; (3)but the  person  whoseopinion expressed by conduct is	   relevant   must   be	  a,person who as a member of the family   or   otherwise	 hasspecial	 means	of knowledge on the  particular	 subject  ofrelationship  ;	 in other words,the person must	 fulfil	 thecondition  laid down in the latter part of the	section.  Ifthe person fulfils that condition, then what is relevant  ishis  opinion expressed by conduct. Opinion  means  somethingmore than more	retailing of gossip or of hearsay; it  meansjudgment  or  belief,  that is, a  belief  or  a  convictionresulting  from	 what one thinks on a  particular  question.Now,  the  " belief " or conviction may manifest  itself  inconduct	 or behaviour which indicates the existence  of	 thebelief	or  opinion.  What the section	says  is  that	suchconduct or outward behaviour as evidence of the opinion heldis  relevant  and may, therefore, be proved. We are  of	 theview that the true scope and effect of	section	 50  of	 theEvidence  Act has been correctly and succinctly put  in	 thefollowing  observations	 made  in  Chandu  Lal	Agarwala  v.Khalilar Rahman (1):-"It  is only opinion as expressed by conduct which  is	maderelevant. This is how -the conduct	comes	 in.	 Theoffered	 item of evidence is the conduct', but what is	madeadmissible  in	evidence is' the opinion',  the	 opinion  asexpressed by such conduct)The offered item of evidence	thusonly  moves  the  Court to an intermediate  decision  :	 itsimmediate  effect is only to move the Court to see  if	thisconduct	 establishes  any I opinion' of	 the  person,  whoseconduct is in evidence, as to the relationship in  question.In order to enable the Court to infer	'the opinion ', theconduct must be of a tenor which cannot well be supposed  tohave  been  willed  without the inner  existence  of  the  Iopinion'.When the conduct is of such a tenor, the Court only gets  toa relevant piece of evidence, namely, the	  opinion ofa  person.  It	still remains for the Court  to	 weigh	suchevidence and come to its own opinion as(1)  I.L.R. [1942] 2 Cal. 299, 309.823to the factum probandum-as to the relationship in question."We also accept as. correct the view that s. 50 does not makeevidence  of  mere  general  reputation	 (without   conduct)admissible  as	proof  of  relationship:  Lakshmi  Reddi  v.Venkata Reddi (1).It  is	necessary  to state here that  how  the	 conduct  orexternal  behaviour which expresses the opinion of a  personcoming	within the meaning of s. 50 is to be proved  is	 notstated	in the section.	 The section merely says  that	suchopinion is a relevant fact on the subject of relationship ofone person to another in a case where the court has to	forman opinion as to that relationship.  Part 11 of the EvidenceAct  is headed " On Proof ". Chapter III thereof contains  afascicule  of sections relating to facts which need  not  beproved.	 Then there is Chapter IV dealing with oral evidenceand in it occurs s. 60 which says inter alia :-"  S.  60.  Oral evidence must, in all	cases  whatever,  bedirect; that is to say-if  it refers to a fact which could be seen, it must be	 theevidence of a witness who says he saw it;if it refers to a fact which could be heard, it must be	 theevidence of a witness who says he heard it; if it refers  toa fact which could be perceived by any other sense or in anyother manner, it must be the evidence of a witness who	sayshe perceived it by that sense in that manner;if  it refers to an opinion or to the grounds on which	thatopinion	 is held, it must be the evidence of the person	 whoholds that opinion on those grounds.  " If we remember	thatthe  offered item of evidence under s. 50 is conduct in	 thesense  explained  above,  then there  is  no  difficulty  inholding	 that  such  conduct or outward	 behaviour  must  beproved	in  the manner laid down in s. 60;  if	the  conductrelates to something which can be seen, it must be proved bythe  person  who  saw it; if it is something  which  can  beheard,	then it must be proved by the person who  heard	 it;and so on.  The conduct must be of the(1)  A.I.R. 1937 P.C. 201.824person who fulfils the essential conditions of s. 50, and itmust  be  proved in the manner laid down in  the  provisionsrelating to proof.  It appears to us that that portion of s.60  which provides that the person    who  holds  an opinionmust  be called to prove his   Opinion does  not necessarilydelimit	 the  scope  of	 S. 50 in  the	sense  that  opinionexpressed by conduct must be proved only by the person whoseconduct	 expresses  the opinion.  Conduct,  as	an  externalperceptible  fact, may be proved either by the testimony  ofthe person himself whose opinion is evidence under s. 50  orby some other person acquainted with the facts which expresssuch  opinion, and as the testimony must relate to  externalfacts  which  constitute  conduct and is  given	 by  personspersonally  acquainted with such facts, the testimony is  ineach case direct within the meaning of s. 60.  This, in	 ouropinion, is the true inter-relation between s. 50 and s.  60of  the	 Evidence Act.	In Queen Empress v.  Subbarayan	 (1)Hutchins, J.,said :-" That proof of the opinion, as expressed by conduct, may begiven,	seems to imply that the person himself is not to  becalled	to state his own opinion, but that, when he is	deador  cannot be called, his conduct may be proved	 by  others.The  section appears to us to afford an exceptional  way  ofproving	 a  relationship,  but by no means  to	prevent	 anyperson	from stating a fact of which he or she	has  specialmeans of knowledge.While  we  agree that s. 50 affords an	exceptional  way  ofproving	 a relationship and by no means prevents any  personfrom stating a fact of which he or she has special. means ofknowledge,  we do not agree with Hutchins, J., when he	saysthat  the  section  seems to imply  that  the  person  whoseopinion is a relevant fact cannot be called to state his ownopinion as expressed by his conduct and that his conduct maybe  proved  by	others only when he is	dead  or  cannot  becalled.	  We  do  not  think  that  s.	50  puts  any	suchlimitation.Let us now apply the tests indicated above to the  testimonyof the two witnesses, Janardan Misra and(1)  (1885) I.L.R. 9 Mad. 9, 11.825Dharanidhar  Misra.   As to Sushila Misrain,  she  was	agedabout 43 when she gave evidence in 1946.  It is	 unnecessaryto consider in detail her evidence, because if the  evidenceof  the other two older witnesses be admissible, that  wouldbe  sufficient	to  support the finding arrived	 at  by	 thecourts	below another evidence would also be  admissible  onthe  same  criteria  as	 the  evidence	of  the	 other	 twowitnesses.The  first  question which we must consider is	if  JanardanMisra and Dharanidhar Misra had special means of knowing thedisputed relationship.	Janardan Misra was aged about 62  in1946, and he was related to the family of Baidyanath  Misra.Kashi  Nath Misra was his grand-father and was a brother  ofBaidyanath Misra.  Obviously, therefore, Janardan Misra	 hadspecial	 means of knowing the disputed	relationship,  beingrelated	 to Baidyanath and therefore to Haripriya,  who	 wasthe  second wife of Lokenath.  He said in his evidence	thathe   knew  Lokenath  Parichha,	had  seen  his	first	wifeSatyabhama  and	 remembered the marriage of  Haripriya	withLokenath Parichha.  Obviously, therefore, he 'fulfilled	 thecondition  of  special knowledge.  He further said  that  heattended  the  marriage of Malabati, daughter  of  Lokenath,when  Lokenath was living.  That marriage took place in	 thehouse  of Lokenath.  He also said that he was  present	whenthe first two daughters of Malabati were married and also atthe  time of the Upanayan ceremonies of plaintiffs I and  2.According  to the witness, Shyam Sundar Pujari, a son  of  asister of Lokenath, acted as a maternal uncle at the time ofthe  marriage  of  the	eldest	daughter  of  Malabati	 andDayasagar   Misra  carried  Radhika,  second   daughter	  ofMalabati, at the time of her marriage.The  question is whether these statements of Janardan  Misraas to his conduct are admissible under s. 50, Evidence	Act.Learned	 counsel for the respondent has contended before  usthat  even apart from s. 50, the evidence of Janardan  Misrais direct evidence of facts which he saw and which should betreated	 as  .directly	proving	 the  relationship   betweenLokenath104826and his daughters.  We do not think that learned counsel forthe  respondent is right in his submission  that  Janardan'sevidence  directly proves the relation between Lokenath	 andhis  alleged  daughters, Abalya,  Brindabati  and  Malabati.Janardan  does not say that he 'was present at the birth  ofany of these daughters.	 What be says is that he was presentat  the marriage of Malabati which took place when  Lokenathwas  living and in Lokenath's house; he was also present  atthe  marriages	of the first two daughters of  Malabati	 andalso at the time of the Upanayan ceremonies of plaintiffs  Iand 2. This evidence, in our opinion, properly comes  withins. 50, Evidence Act; it shows the opinion of Janardan  Misraas  expressed  by  his conduct, namely,	 his  attending	 themarriage  of  Malabati	as  daughter  of  Lokenath  and	 hisattending  the	marriages  and Upanayan	 ceremonies  of	 thegrandchildren  of Lokenath.  We do not think that it can  besuggested  for one moment that Janardan Misra  attended	 themarriage and other ceremonies in the family as a mere casualinvitee.   He  must have been invited as a relation  of	 thefamily	and unless he believed that Malabati was a  daughterof  Lokenath and the others were grand-children of  Lokenathto whom the witness was related, he would not have said thathe  attended those ceremonies as those of the  children	 andgrand-children,	 of  Lokenath.	This, in our opinion,  is  areasonable  inference from the evidence and if that  is	 so,then  the  evidence of Janardan Misra was  clearly  evidencewhich  showed his belief as expressed by his conduct on	 thesubject	 of  the  relationship	between	 Lokenath  and	 hisdaughters and Lokenath and his grandchildren.Janardan  also	said that one Shyamsundar  Pujari  acted  asmaternal  uncle	 at the time of the marriage of	 the  eldestdaughter of Malabati.  There is some evidence in the  recordthat Shyamsundar Pujari was son of Lokenath's sister.	Thiswas, however, disputed by the appellant.  The High Court hasnot  recorded  any finding on the  relation  of	 ShyamsundarPujari to Lokenath.  If it were proved that Shyamsundar	 wasa son of Lokenath's sister, he would have special827means  of  knowledge  as a relation of the  family  and	 hisconduct	 at the time of the marriage of Malabati's  daughterwould also be admissible under s. 50.  But in the absence ofany finding as to any special means of knowledge on the partof Shyamsundar, the latter's conduct will not be  admissibleunder	s.  50.	  We  need  not	 say  anything	more   aboutShyamsundar, as the High Court has not based its finding  onthe conduct of Shyamsundar.The  same  criteria  apply to the  evidence  of	 DharanidharMisra,	who was aged 96 at the time when he  gave  evidence.He was the maternal uncle of Janardan Misra.   Dharanidhar'sevidence  showed that he knew Lokenath Parichha and his	 twowives, Satyabhama and Haripriya.  He also had special  meansof  knowing  the disputed relationship, though	he  was	 notdirectly related to Lokenath.  He said that Lokenath was twoyears older than him and the witness attended the  marriagesof  Radhika  and  Sarjoo and the " thread  "  ceremonies  ofLakshminarayan	and Nimai.  The witness further	 added	thatthough he did not remember if he was invited to the marriageof Mandhata's daughters, he was invited to the feasts  whichfollowed  the marriage.	 He said that the feasts took  placein the house of Mandhata and he attended the " gansana " andmarriage feasts of Mandhata's daughters.  The same  criteriawhich  make the evidence of Janardan Misra admissible  unders. 50 also make the evidence of Dharanidhar Misra admissibleunder the same section.We may in this connection refer to one of our own decisions,Sitaji	v. Bijendra Narain Choudhary wherein  the  followingobservations were made:"  A member of the family can speak in	the  witness-box  ofwhat he has been told and what he has learned about his	 ownancestors, provided what he says is an expression of his ownindependent  opinion  (even though it is  based	 on  hearsayderived	 from  deceased,  not living, persons)	and  is	 notmerely	repetition  of the hearsay opinion  of	others,	 andprovided  the opinion is expressed by conduct.	His  sourcesof(1)  A.I.R 1954 S.C. 601.828information and the time at which he acquired the  knowledge(for  example,	whether	 before the dispute  or	 not)  wouldaffect	its  weight  but not  its  admissibility.   This  istherefore legally admissible evidence which, if believed, islegally sufficient to support the finding ". It is true thatDharanidhar Misra was not directly related to the family  ofLokenath.  He was, however, distantly related to  Haripriya.He  was a friend of Lokenath Parichha and lived in the	sameneighbourhood.	His evidence showed that he knew him and themembers of his family quite well.  That being the  position,his  evidence that he attended the marriage  ceremonies	 andthe  Upanayan  ceremonies of several members of	 the  familyundoubtedly showed his opinion as expressed by his conduct.We  are	 accordingly of the view that the evidence  of	bothJanardan Misra and Dharanidhar Misra was admissible under s.50  and	 the learned Judges of the High Court  committed  noerror of law in admitting and considering that evidence.  Weare concerned here with the question of admissibility  only.As  to	what weight should be given to	their  evidence	 wasreally	a matter for the courts below and both	the  learnedChief Justice and Narasimham, J., accepted the testimony  ofDharanidhar Misra and Narasimham, J., further relied on	 thetestimony of Janardan Misra also.We  now	 proceed to a consideration of the  first  question,namely,	 the admissibility of the document Ext. 1. The	HighCourt  has  held the document to be  admissible	 under	sub-section	 (5)  of s. 32 of the Evidence Act.  We	 must  firstread s. 32 (5):"  S. 32.  Statements, written or verbal, of relevant  factsmade by a person who is dead, or who cannot be found, or whohas become incapable of giving evidence, or whose attendancecannot	be  procured without an amount of delay	 or  expensewhich,	under the circumstances of the case, appears to	 theCourt  unreasonable,  are themselves relevant facts  in	 thefollowing cases:-(1)...................................................(2)......................................................829(3)......................................................(4).........................................(5)  When  the	statement relates to the  existence  of	 anyrelationship by blood, marriage or adoption between  personsas to whose relation-ship by blood, marriage or adoption theperson making the statement had special means of  knowledge,and  when  the	statement was made before  the	question  indispute was raised.(6)...........................................(7).............................................(8)......................................Now,  four conditions must be fulfilled for the	 applicationof sub-s. (5) of s. 35: firstly, the statements, written  orverbal,	 of relevant facts must have been made by  a  personwho  is dead or cannot be found, etc., as mentioned  in	 theinitial	 part of the section; secondly, the statements	mustrelate	to  the	 existence of  any  relationship  by  blood,marriage  or  adoption;	 thirdly,  the	person	making	 thestatement  must	 have special means of knowledge as  to	 therelationship  in question ; and lastly, the statements	musthave  been made before the question in dispute	was  raised.There is no serious difficulty in the present case as to thefirst two conditions.  Exhibit I contained a pedigree  whichshowed that Lokenath had three daughters by his first  wife,the daughters being Ahalya, Brindabati and Malabati; it alsoshowed	that Ahalya had three sons Satyabadi, Baikuntha	 andDasarath, of whom Baikuntha was one of the plaintiffs in thepresent	 suit  and  the	 other	two  plaintiffs	 Nimai	 andLakshminarayan	were shown as sons of Malabati.	  Exhibit  Iwas  signed by Satyabadi on his own behalf and on behalf  ofhis brothers Baikuntha and Dasarath.  Satyabadi is now dead.So far as Satyabadi is concerned, there can be no doubt thatthe  first two conditions for the application of sub-s.	 (5)of  s.	32  are fulfilled.  It has been	 contended  that  asDasarath and Baikuntha are alive (Baikuntha being one of theplaintiffs) and as the statement was the joint statement  ofthree  persons	of  whom one alone is dead,  the  first	 andpreliminary condition necessary for the application of s. 32is not830fulfilled.  We do not think that this contention is correct,and we are of the view that the position is correctly statedin  Chandra Nath Roy v. Nilamadhab Bhattacharjee  (1);	thatwas  a	case in which the statements were recitals as  to  apedigree  and  were contained in a patta executed  by  threesisters,  two of whom were dead and it was pointed out	thatthe statement in the patta was as much the statement of	 thesisters	 who were dead as of the sister who was	 alive.	  Inthe  case before us the statements as to pedigree in  Ex.  Iwere really the statements of Satyabadi, who signed for selfand on behalf of his brothers.	Assuming, however, that	 thestatements were of all the three brothers, they were as muchstatements of Satyabadi as of the other two brothers who arealive.	 We,  therefore, see no difficulty in  treating	 thestatements as to pedigree in Ex.  I as statements of a	deadperson	as  to	the existence of  a  relationship  by  bloodbetween	 Lokenath and his daughters Ahalya,  Brindabati	 andMalabati-the relationship which is in dispute now.The  more  important  point  for  consideration	 is  if	 thestatements as to pedigree in Ex.  I were made, to use  the*-words  of  sub-s. (5), before the question  in	dispute	 wasraised.	  The High Court held that the statements were	madeante  litem  motam.  Learned counsel for the  appellant	 hasvery  strongly contended before us that the High Court	tookan  erroneous  view in this matter.  Let us  first  see	 thecircumstances  in which Ex.  I was filed and dealt  with  inSuit  No. 31 of 1917.  We have said earlier what  that	suitwas   about.   It  was	a  suit	 brought  by  some  of	 thereversioners  for a declaration that the alienation made  byHaripriya in favour of Indumati was without legal  necessityand, therefore, not binding on the reversion after the deathof  Haripriya.	The suit was filed on August 27,  1917.	  OnNovember 2, 1917, certain other persons made an	 applicationto be added as parties to the suit on the footing that	theyhad  the same interest in the suit as the plaintiffs.	Thatapplication was disposed of by the learned Subordinate Judgeby  the following order--"In a suit like the present, it is not necessary(1)  (1898) I.L.R. 26 Cal. 236.831that  all  the reversioners should be made  parties.   So  Ireject the petition."Exhibit	 I was filed on November 5, 1917.  In that  petitionSatyabadi alleged: " The applicants are the legal  claimantsto  inherit  the  properties left  by  Lokenath	 ......	 theapplicants  therefore beg that they may kindly be  made	 co-defendants ". It was further alleged that the plaintiffs  ofthat suit had no legal right over the share in dispute,	 andthis  was followed by a pedigree given in para.	 IV  of	 thepetition.  This petition (Ex. 1) was put up on November	 27,1917,  and  the learned Subordinate Judge  disposed  of	 thepetition by the following order:-"  The petition of Satyabadi Pati and others was put  up  inthe  presence of the plaintiffs pleader.  He objects to	 thesame.  The petition is, therefore, rejected."Ultimately, the suit was decreed on August 31, 1918, on	 thefinding	 that the alienation by Haripriya was without  legalnecessity and did not bind the reversion after her death.The  learned Judges of the High Court took the view that  inSuit  No.  31  of 1917 no dispute arose as  to	the  allegedrelation between Lokenath on one side and Ahalya, Brindabatiand  Malabati  on the other.  The dispute in that  suit	 wasabout  the validity of the alienation made by Haripriya	 andthe  suit having been filed by some of the  reversioners  onbehalf	of  the reversion, no issue was raised or  could  beraised as to whether Lokenath had any daughters by his firstwife,  Such  an	 issue	was not relevant  to  the  suit	 andfurthermore nobody could anticipate in 1917 that the sons ofa  sister or half-sister would be preferential heirs in	 theorder of Mitakshara succession.	 They, therefore, held	thatthe statements in Ex. 1 were ante litem motam and admissibleunder sub-s. (5) of s. 32, Evidence Act.On  behalf  of the appellant it has been argued that  for  adeclaratory  decree  in respect of an alienation made  by  aHindu widow or other limited heir, the right to sue rests inthe  first  instance  with  the	 next  reversioner  and	 thereversioner next after him is not entitled to sue except  insome special circumstances832and  therefore the question as to who the  next	 reversionerwas arose in the suit of 1917; and Ex.	I did	  raise	   adispute	 as  to	 who the last male  owner  was	Lokenath  orSatyanand-and also showed that there	  was a	 dispute  ifthe plaintiffs of that suit were entitled    to the propertyin  dispute there.  The existence of such a dispute, it	 hasbeen argued, affected the statements	in  Ex.	 I and	whatSatyabadi said therein were not " the natural effusions of aparty  who  must  know	the truth and  who  speaks  upon  anoccasion  when his mind stands in an even  position  withoutany  temptation to exceed or fall short of the truth  "	 (asper  Lord  Chancellor  Eldon in Whitelocke  v.	Baker)	(1).Learned	 counsel has also relied on the decision in  NarainiKuar  v. Chandi Din (2) where it was held that s. 32(5)	 didnot  apply  to	statements made	 by  interested	 parties  indenial, in the course of litigation, of pedigrees set up  bytheir opponents.We do not think that in Suit No. 31 of 1917 any question  asto the relationship of Lokenath with Ahalya, Brindabati	 andMalabati  arose	 at all.  It is to be remembered  that	evenaccording to the pedigree set up by the appellant one of theplaintiffs  is	a son of Ahalya and two others are  sons  ofMalabati.   What  is now in dispute is	whether	 Ahalya	 andMalabati  were	daughters of Lokenath Parichha.	 That  is  aquestion  which	 did Dot at all arise for  consideration  inSuit  No. 31 of 1917 ; nor did it arise in  the	 proceedingswhich  the  application of Satyabadi (Ex. 1) gave  rise	 to.Prima  facie, there is nothing to show that a dispute as  tothe relationship of Lokenath with Ahalya and Malabati  aroseat  any stage prior to or in the course of  the	 proceedingswhich  arose  out of Ex.  I ; that would  be  sufficient  todischarge  the onus of proving that the statements in Ex.  1were  ante litem motam.	 Natabar, one of the  plaintiffs  inthe suit of 1917, who might have given evidence of any	suchdispute	 if  it	 existed, said nothing about  it.   We	havereferred to the circumstances in which Ex.  I was filed	 anddisposed  of.	It  is true that the order  of	the  learnedSubordinate Judge rejecting the -petition Ex. 1 is  somewhatcryptic and it does not show what objection the(7) (1807)  13 ves. 510, 514.(8) (1886) I.L.R. 9 All. 467.833plaintiff  of that suit took and on what ground the  learnedSubordinate  Judge rejected the petition.  If, however,	 thevarious	 orders	 made  by  the	learned	 Subordinate  Judge,particularly the orders dated November 2, 1917, and November27,  1917,  to	which we have  earlier	made  reference	 areexamined, it seems clear to us that the learned	 SubordinateJudge  was proceeding on the footing that in a suit of	thatnature	it  was not necessary to make all  the	reversionersparties,  because  the	reversioners who  brought  the	suitrepresented  the  entire  body of  reversioners.   From	 thejudgment  passed  in the suit (Ex.  Cl) it does	 not  appearthat  the question as to who the next reversioners were	 wasat  all	 gone into.  That may be due  to  the  circumstance,pointed	 out by the High Court, that Purushottam,  uncle  ofJanardan and Natwar, was then alive.  He was admittedly thenthe  nearest  reversioner,  but	 as he did  not	 join  as  aplaintiff  he  was made a proforma defendant.	The  nearestreversioner  having been added as a party defendant  in	 thesuit  of  1917, no question of title arose in that  suit  asbetween the reversioners inter se.  Such a question of titlewas  wholly foreign to the nature of that suit.	 Nor, do  wefind anything in the judgment, Ex.  Cl, to show that it	 wasever suggested in that suit that the last male owner was notSatyanand.   The sons of the half-sister of  Satyanand	werenot  preferential  heirs at the time and we agree  with	 thelearned	 Judges of the High Court that no question arose  orcould  have arisen in that suit as to the. relation  betweenLokenath  on one side and Ahalya and Malabati on the  other.That being the position, the statements as to pedigree	con-tained	in  Ex. 1 were made before the precise	question  indispute in the present litigation had arisen.It has next been argued by learned counsel for the appellantthat  in  admitting Ex.	 I under s. 32(5) the  courts  belowassumed that Satyabadi had special means of knowledge as  tothe  relation  between Lokenath and  his  alleged  daughtersAhalya	and Malabati.  The argument has been that unless  itis  assumed that Satyabadi is the grand-son of Lokenath,  hecan have105834relationship.	 Learned  counsel  for	the  appellant	 hasreferred  us to the decision in Subbiah Mudaliar  v.  GopalaMudaliar  (1)  where it was held that for a statement  in  aformer	suit to be admissible under s. 32(5) the  fact	thatthe  person  who  made the statement had  special  means  ofknowledge  must	 be  shown  by	some  independent  evidence,otherwise  it would be arguing in a circle to hold that	 thedocument  itself  proves the relation  and  therefore  showsspecial means of knowledge.  In Hitchins v. Eardley (2)	 thequestion of the legitimacy of the declarant was in issue andthe  same  question was necessary to be proved in  order  toadmit his declarations.	 That was a jurv case and the  ques-tion  relating	to  the admissibility of  evidence  being  aquestion  of law had to be determined by the Judge; but	 thesame  question being the principal question for decision  inthe case had to be determined by the jury at the  conclusionof the trial.  In the difficulty thus presented, prima facieevidence only was required at the time of admission.  We  donot  think that any such difficulty presents itself  in	 thecase  under  our consideration.	 As to	Satyabadi's  specialmeans  of  knowledge, we have in this case the	evidence  ofJanardan.   Misra  and	Dharanidhar  Misra,  which  evidenceindependently  shows  that Satyabadi was  the  grand-son  ofLokenath, being the son of his daughter, Ahalya.  It may  bestated	here  also  that it was	 admitted  that	 Ahalya	 wasSatyabadi's  mother, and that would show that Satyabadi	 hadspecial	 means	of knowledge as to who his  mother's  fatherwas.Therefore,  we	agree  with  the  High	Court  that  Ex.   Ifulfilled  all the conditions of s. 32(5), Evidence Act	 andwas admissible in evidence.We have already said that it is not for us to consider	whatweight should be given to the oral evidence of Janardan	 andDharanidhar or to the statements in Ex. 1. The courts  belowhave  considered that evidence and have assessed it.  We  donot  think that we shall be justified in going	behind	thatassessment.Learned counsel for the appellant wished also to(1) A.I.R. 1936 Mad. 808.(2) (1871) L.R. 2 P. & D. 248.835argue  the  point that the Privy Council  decision  in	Mst.Sahodra's  case (1) was wrong and that a halfsister was	 notentitled  to  get the benefit of the amending Act  of  1929.The  Privy Council decision was given at a time when it	 wasbinding on the courts in India and it settled differences ofopinion	 which	then existed in the different  High  Courts.That  decision was taken as settling the law on the  subjectand  on	 the faith of that decision a half-sister  has	beenheld  in subsequent cases to be entitled to the	 benefit  ofthe  Amending  Act.  The High Court dealt with the  case  in1951  after  the Constitution had come into  force  and	 thePrivy Council jurisdiction in Indian appeals had ceased.  Nopoint was taken on behalf of the appellant in the High Courtthat  the Privy Council decision should be reopened and	 thequestion  of  the right of a  half-sister  re-examined.	  Inthese  circumstances, we did not allow learned	counsel	 forthe  appellant to argue the correctness or otherwise of	 thePrivy Council decision.The  contentions  as to the admissibility of Ex. 1  and	 theoral evidence of Janardan Misra and Dharanidhar Misra  beingdevoid	of merit, the appeal fails.  We accordingly  dismissthe   appeal  with  costs  in  favour  of   the	  contestingrespondents.Appeal dismissed.(1) (1942) L.R. 69 I.A. 145.836