PETITIONER:MESSRS.	 DHANDHANIA KEDIA & CO.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAXDATE OF JUDGMENT:17/10/1958BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  219		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 204 CITATOR INFO : R	    1965 SC1358	 (21) RF	    1966 SC1285	 (7) R	    1966 SC1481	 (7)ACT:       Income-tax-Dividend,  tax  on-Distribution  of	accumulated       profits	of  previous years-" Previous years",  meaning	of-       lndian  Income-Tax Act, 192-2 (XI Of 1922), ss.	   2(6A)(c)       and 2(ii).HEADNOTE:The  appellant, a resident of the once independent State  ofUdaipur,  held	266 shares in the Mewar Industries  Ltd.,  acompany	 registered in that State.  There was no law in	 theState of Udaipur imposing tax on income and it was on  April1,  1950that for the first time the residents of  Rajasthan,in  which the State had merged, became liable to pay such  atax.  On January 18, 1950, the Company went into liquidationand on April 22, 1950, -the liquidator distributed a portionof   the  assets  among	 the  shareholders,  the   appellantreceiving  a  sum of Rs. 26,000.  This sum  represented	 theundistributed  profits	of  the company	 which	had  accruedduring	the six accounting years preceding the	liquidation.The income-tax authorities included this sum in the  taxableincome	of  the appellant for the  assessment  year  1051-52holding	 that it was dividend as defined in S.	2(6A)(c)  ofthe   Indian   Income-tax  Act.	  Under	 S.   2(6A)(c)	 thedistribution of accumulated profits which arose during the "six  previous  years " preceding the  date  of	liquidation-would  be dividend.  Section 2(1) defined " previous year  "to mean the year which was previous to.the assessment  year.The  appellant	contended  that " previous  years  "  in  S.2(6A)(c)  must be read in the light of the definition is  S.2(1)  and  as  in the present case there  had  been  no	 lawimposing  a tax prior to April 1, 1950, the profit  for	 theyears 1943-44 to 1948-49 cannot be held to be profits  which"  arose during the six previous years ",  and	consequentlycould not be taxed as dividend as defined in S. 2(6A)(c)  ofthe Indian Income-tax Act.Held,  that the said sum was dividend within the meaning  ofS.  2(6A)(c)  of  the  Act  and	 was  liable  to  tax.	 Thedefinitions  given in S. 2 Of the Act applied  unless  therewas anything repugnant in the subject or context.  It  wouldbe  repugnant  to  the	definition of "	 dividend  "  in  s.2(6A)(c) to import into the expression " six previous  years"  the	definition of " previous year " in s. 2(ii)  of	 theAct.  By the expression "previous years " in s. 2(6A)(c)  ofthe Act was meant the financial years preceding the year  inwhich liquidation took-place.Commissioner  of  Income-tax, Madras v.	 K.  Srisivasan	 andGopalan, [1953] S.C.R. 486, referred to.205JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 433 of 1957.Appeal from the judgment and order dated August 24, 1956, ofthe Rajasthan High Court at Jodhpur in Civil Misc.  Case No.17 of 1955.B.   D. Sharma, for the appellant.A.   N. Kripal, R. H. Dhebar and D. Gupta, for therespondent1958.  October 17.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyVENKATARAMA AIYAR J.-This is an appeal against the  judgmentof the High Court of Rajasthan in a reference under s. 66(1)of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, hereinafter referred  toas the Act.The  facts,  so	 far as they are  material,  are  these	 Theappellant  is  a resident of what was once  the	 independentState of Udaipur.  There was in that State a Company  calledthe Mewar Industries, Ltd., registered under the  provisionsof  the law in force in that State, and the  appellant	held266  shares  in	 that Company.	On  January  18,  1950,	 theCompany	 went into liquidation, and on April 22,  1950,	 theliquidator  distributed	 a portion of the assets  among	 theshareholders, and the appellant was paid a sum of Rs. 26,000under this distribution.  It is common ground that this	 sumrepresents  the undistributed profits of the  Company  whichhad  accrued during the six accounting years  preceding	 theliquidation.   It should be mentioned that there was in	 theState of Udaipur no law imposing tax on income, and that  itwas  only  under  the  Indian Finance  Act,  1950  that	 theresidents  of the State of Rajasthan, in which the State  ofUdaipur had merged, became liable for the first time to	 paytax  on their income.  That Act came into force on April  1,1950.	We  are	 concerned in  these  proceedings  with	 theassessment of tax for the year 1951-52, and that, under s. 3of  the Act, has to be on the income of the  previous  year,i.e., 1950-51.	Now, the dispute in the present case relatesto  the	 sum  of Rs. 26,000 paid by the	 liquidator  to	 theappellant  on  April 22, 1950.	By his order dated  July  3,1952, the Income-tax Officer held206that this was dividend as defined in s. 2(6A)(c) of the	 Actand  included it in the taxable income of the  appellant  inthe  year  of  account.	 The appellant took  this  order  inappeal	to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner who  by	 hisorder  dated  January 12, 1953,	 confirmed  the	 assessment.There was a further appeal by the appellant to the AppellateTribunal,  who also dismissed it on November 10,  1953.	  Onthe  application  of the appellant, the	 Appellate  Tribunalreferred the following question for the decision of the HighCourt:"  Whether  on the facts and in the  circumstances  of	thiscase, the aforesaid sum of Rs. 26,000 was liable to be taxedin  the assessee's hands as dividend within the	 meaning  ofthat term in s. 2(6A)(c) of the Indian Income-tax Act."The  reference was heard by Wanchoo, C. J. and Modi, J.	 whoby their judgment dated August 24, 1956, answered it in	 theaffirmative.   It is against this judgment that the  presentappeal	has been -preferred on a certificate granted by	 theHigh Court under s. 66A(2) of the Act.The  sole point for determination in this appeal is  whetherthe sum of Rs. 26,000 received by the appellant on April 22,1950,  is  dividend as defined in. s. 2(6A)(c) of  the	Act.That  definition,  as  it stood on  the	 relevant  date	 andomitting what is not material, was in these terms:" 6(A) 'dividend' includes-(a)  any  distribution by a company of	accumulated  profitswhether capitalised or not if such distribution entails	 therelease	 by  the company to its shareholders of all  or	 anypart of the assets of the company ;(c) any distribution made to the shareholders of a  companyout of accumulated profits of the company on the liquidationof the company:Provided  that only the accumulated profits  so	 distributedwhich  arose  during the six previous years of	the  companypreceding the date of liquidation shall be so included;".207The  definition of " previous year " as given in s. 2(l	 1),omitting what is not material, is as follows:" Previous year " means in respect of any separate source ofincome, profits and gains(a)  the twelve months ending on the 31st day of March	nextpreceding  the	year  for  which the  assessment  is  to  bemade..."On these provisions, the contention of the appellant is thatunder the definition in s. 2(6A)(c) the assets of a  companydistributed  after  it	has gone into  liquidation  will  bedividend  only	if  they  represented  the  profits  thereofaccumulated during the six previous years preceding the dateof  the liquidation, and that, in the present  case,  thoughthe amounts distributed came out of the accumulated  profitsof  the	 Company,  those profits had  not  been	 accumulatedwithin	the  six previous years of the	liquidation  of	 theCompany.   It is not in dispute that the profits which	weredistributed had been accumulated during the years 1943-44 to1948-49,  i.e., during the six years preceding the  liquida-tion.	The point in controversy is whether those years	 canbe  said to be " previous years " within s. 2(6A)(c) of	 theAct.   The  appellant  contends that " previous	 year  "  asdefined	 in  s. 2(l 1) of the Act means the  year  which  isprevious to the assessment year, that accordingly when thereis  no	year of assessment, there can be no  previous  year,that  construing  the  words " six previous years  "  in  s.2(6A)(c)  in the light of the definition of "previous  year"in s. 2(l 1) of the Act, the years 1943-44 to 1948-49 cannotbe held to be previous years, because the Indian  Income-taxAct came into force in the State of Rajasthan only on  April1, 1950, and prior to that date there was at no time any lawimposing  tax on income in the State of Udaipur, that  therewas  therefore no year of assessment, and that, in  consequ-ence,  the  sum of Rs. 26,000 received by the  appellant  onApril 22, 1950, is not a dividend as defined in s. 2(6A)(c).The contention of the respondent which has been accepted  bythe Income-tax authorities and by the learned Judges in	 theCourt below is that the expression " six previous years"  isused  in  s. 2(6A)(c) not in the  technical  and  restrictedsense in which the208words " previous year " are used in s. 2(11) of the Act, andthat,  in the context, it means six  consecutive  accountingyears  preceding  the  liquidation  of	the  company.	 Thequestion is which of these two interpretations is the  rightone to be put on the language of s. 2(6A)(c).The  argument  of Mr. Sharma for the appellant	is  that  s.2(11)  having  defined	the  meaning  which  the  expression'previous year" has to bear in the Act, that meaning should,according  to  the well-settled rules  of  construction,  begiven  to  those  words wherever they  might  occur  in	 thestatute, and that that is the meaning which must be given tothe  words " six previous years " in s. 2(6A)(c).  It is  tobe  noticed  that the definitions given in s. 2 of  the	 Actare,  as  provided  therein, to govern	"  unless  there  isanything  repugnant  in the subject or context ".  Now,	 theappellant contends that the words " unless there is anythingrepugnant  "  are much more emphatic than words	 such  as  "unless the subject or context otherwise requires ", and thatbefore	the  definition	 in  the  interpretation  clause  isrejected as repugnant to the subject or context, it must  beclearly	 shown	that  if that is adopted, it  will  lead  toabsurd or anomalous results.  And our attention was  invitedto authorities in which the above rules of construction havebeen  laid  down.   It	is unnecessary	to  refer  to  thesedecisions as the rules themselves are established beyond allcontroversy,  and  the	point to be  decided  ultimately  iswhether	 the  application of the definition ins. 2(l  1)  isrepelled in the context of s. 2(6A)(c).Turning	 to  the  language of s. 2(II), we  have  this	thataccording  to the definition contained therein,	 "  previousyear  "	 is  the  year which is	 previous  to  the  year  ofassessment,  and  that	means that there  can  be  only	 oneprevious year to a given year of assessment.  When s.  2(6A)(c) speaks of six previous years, it is obvious that it usesthe  expression " previous year " in a sense different	fromthat which is given to it in s. 2(l 1), because it would  bea  contradiction in terms to speak of six previous years  inrelation  to  any specific assessment year.  It	 was  arguedthat under s. 13(2) of209the General Clauses Act, 1897, words in the singular  shouldbe  read as including the plural, and that,  therefore,	 thedefinition of "previous year" in s. 2(l 1) could be read  asmeaning " previous years ". But s. 13 only enacts a rule  ofconstruction  which is to apply " unless there	is  anythingrepugnant  in the and to read a " previous year " in s.	 2(l1) would be to nullify the previous year " enacted  therein,and  such  a  construction must	 therefore  be	rejected  asrepugnant  to the context.  It was then suggested  that	 allthe six previous years might be regarded as previous each tothe  next  following  year  if that was	 itself	 a  year  ofassessment, and that such a construction would, consistentlywith  the contention of the appellant, give full  effect  tothe  definition in s. 2(11) of the Act.	 But  this  argumentoverlooks that while there may be several preceding years toa  given year of assessment there can be only  one  previousyear  in relation to it, and that it would make no sense  tospeak  of  six previous years with reference to	 a  year  ofassessment.  We are satisfied that it would be repugnant  tothe definition of " dividend " in s. 2(6A)(c) to import intothe words " six previous years " the definition of  previousyear" in s. 2(l 1) of the Act.An  examination	 of the policy underlying s.  2(6A)(c)	alsoleads to the same conclusion.  When a company makes  profitsand  instead  of distributing them as  dividend	 accumulatesthem from year to year and at a later date distributes	themto  the	 shareholders, the amounts so distributed  would  bedividend under s. 2(6A) (a), but when a company which has soaccumulated   the  profits  goes  into	liquidation   beforedeclaring  a dividend and the liquidator  distributes  thoseprofits to the shareholders, it was held in Commissioners  oInland Revenue v. Burrell (1) that such distribution was nota  dividend because when once liquidation intervenes,  therewas  no question of distribution of dividends, and  all	 theassets	of the company remaining after the discharge of	 itsobligations were surplus divisible among(1)  (1924) 9 T.C. 27-210the shareholders as capital.  It was to remove this  anomalythat  the Indian legislature, following similar	 legislationby British Parliament in the year 1927, enacted s. 2(6A) (1)in 1939.  The effect of this provision is to assimilate	 thedistribution  of  accumulated profits by a liquidator  to  asimilar	 distribution  by a company which  is  working;	 butsubject	 to  this limitation that while in  the	 latter	 theprofits	 distributed  will be dividend whenever	 they  mighthave  been accumulated, in the former such profits would  bedividend  only	in  so	far as	they  came  out	 of  profitsaccumulated within six years prior to liquidation.  Now, thereason	of it requires that those years must be a  cycle  ofsix  years preceding the liquidation, arid that is  what  ismeant by the words " previous years ". It was argued for theappellant  that	 if  that  was	what  was  intended  by	 thelegislature, that was sufficiently expressed by the words  "preceding  the	liquidation ", and that the  words  previousyears " would be redundant.  But the words preceding years "would  have  meant calendar years,  whereas  the  accountingyears  of the company for ascertainment of profits and	lossmight be different from the calendar years, and the words  "previous  year	" would be more appropriate to	connote	 thefinancial  year of a company.  Now, it should  be  mentionedthat  when a company in liquidation distributes its  currentprofits,,  that	 would	also  be not  dividend	as  held  inBurrell's case (1), and the law to that extent has been leftuntouched by s. 2(6A)(c).  And it has accordingly been	heldby the High Courts that the current profits of a company  inliquidation  which are distributed to the  shareholders	 arenot  dividend  within s. 2(6A)(c), Vide Appavu	Chettiar  v.Commissioner of Income-tax (2) and Girdhardas & Co. Ltd.  v.Commissioner  of  Incometax  (3).   Therefore,	 accumulatedprofits which are sought to be caught in s. 2(6A) (c)  wouldbe the profits accumulated in the financial years  precedingthe  year  in which the liquidation takes place, and  it  isthis that is sought to be expressed by the words "  previousyears  "  in  s. 2(6A) (c).  In the  present  case,  as	 theCompany went into liquidation on January 18, 1950,(1) (1924) 9 T.C. 27.		  (2) [1956] 29 I.T.R. 768.(3)  [1957] 3i I.T.R. 82.211excluding the current year which commenced on April 1, 1949,the six previous years will be the years 1943-44 to 1948-49.So  far, we have considered the question on the language  ofs. 2(6A)(c) and the policy underlying it.  On behalf of	 therespondent, certain authorities were cited as supporting hiscontention  that  the expression it previous years "  in  s.2(6A) (c) is not to be interpreted in the sense in which theexpression  " previous year" is defined in s. 2(l 1) of	 theAct.  It is sufficient to refer to one of them, -and that isthe  decision of this Court in Commissioner  of	 Income-tax,Madras	v.  K. Srinivasan and K. Gopalan  (1).	 There,	 thepoint for decision was as to the interpretation to be put onthe words " end of the previous year " in s. 25, sub-ss. (3)and  (4)  of the Act which dealt with discontinuance  of  orsuccession  to	a  business,  and  it  was  held  that	 theexpression  " previous year " in those provisions  meant  anaccounting  year expiring immediately preceding the date  ofdiscontinuance	or succession.	The decision is	 not  itselfrelevant to the present discussion, but certain observationstherein	 are  relied on as bearing on the  point  now  underconsideration.	 Mahajan, J. delivering the judgment of	 theCourt observed:"  The	expression 'previous year'  substantially  means  anaccounting year comprised of a full period of twelve  monthsand usually corresponding to a financial year preceding	 thefinancial  year of assessment.	It also means an  accountingyear comprised of a full period of twelve months adopted  bythe assessee for maintaining his accounts but different fromthe  financial	year and preceding a  financial	 year.	 Forpurposes  of  the  charging  sections  of  the	Act   unlessotherwise  provided  for  it  is co-related  to	 a  year  ofassessment immediately following, but it is not	 necessarilywedded	to an assessment year in all cases and it cannot  besaid  that  the expression 'previous year'  has	 no  meaningunless	it  is used in relation to a financial year.   In  acertain context it may well mean a completed accounting yearimmediately preceding the happening of a contingency."(I)  [1953] S.C.R. 486, 501212The  learned Judges in the Court below have relied on  theseobservations,	and  quite  rightly,  as  supporting   theirconclusion that the expression " six previous years " in. s.2(6A)  (c) means only the six accounting years of a  companypreceding the date of liquidation.The appellant sought to raise one other contention, and thatis that the Indian Companies Act came into operation in	 theUdaipur	 territory  on April 1, 1951, only by force  of	 thePart  B	 Stater,  Laws Act (111 of 1951),  that	 during	 therelevant period the Mewar Industries Ltd. was not a  companyas  defined in s. 2(5A) of the Act, and that  therefore	 thedistribution  of  assets made by that Company on  April	 22,1950, could not be held to be a dividend as defined in s.  2(6A) (c).  But that is not a question which was referred forthe opinion of the High Court under s. 66(1) of the Act; noris  it even dealt with by the Tribunal and therefore  cannotbe  said to arise out of its order.  Moreover,	whether	 theMewar Industries Ltd., is a Company as defined in the IndianIncome-tax  Act is itself a question over which the  partiesare in controversy.  The definition of " Company " under theIndian	Income-tax  Act has undergone several  changes	fromtime to time, and on the relevant date it stood as follows:" 2(6) 'Company' -means(i)  any Indian Company or(ii) any  association,	whether	 incorporated  or  not	 andwhether Indian or non-Indian, which is or was assessable  orwas  assessed as a company for the assessment for  the	yearending on the 31st day of March, 1948, or which is  declaredby general or special order of the Central Board of  Revenueto be a company for the purposes of this Act."It is contended for the respondent that the Mewar IndustriesLtd.,  was an association which was assessable as a  Companyfor  the  year ending March 31, 1948, and that	it  was,  infact,  assessed;  but the appellant disputes this.   As	 thepoint  turns  on disputed question of fact.,  it  cannot  beallowed to be raised at this stage.213In  the result, we hold that the sum of Rs. 26,000  receivedby the appellant on April 22, 1950, ",as dividend as definedin s. 2(6A) (c) of the Act and is chargeable to tax.The appeal fails, and is dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.