PETITIONER:THE UPPER GANGES SUGAR MILLS LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:KHALIL-UL-RAHMAN AND OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:06/09/1960BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR  143		  1961 SCR  (1) 564 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1965 SC  54	 (18) F	    1968 SC1351	 (8,9,10) RF	    1981 SC1005	 (3) E	    1990 SC 471	 (5,8,9,10,13,14)ACT:Tenancy-Adhivasi right, acquisition of-Possession  continuedunder  stay orders of courts-Whether such Possession  is  onbehalf of courts-Person recorded in possession as  thekadar-Whether	 an  occupant  in his own  right  U.   P.  ZamindariAbolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950, (U.  P. 1 of 1950), S.20(b).HEADNOTE:The  landlord  granted a theka to the company for  10  yearsending	with  1356 F which was renewed up to  1355  F  (June1948).	On the company's refusal to vacate on the expiry  ofthe theka the landlord filed a suit for ejectment under	 theU.  P.	Tenancy	 Act, 1939.  The suit was  resisted  by	 thecompany on the ground that it has become a hereditary tenantunder  S. 29 of that Act.  The suit was decreed on  November3,-  1948,  and an appeal and a second	appeal	against	 thedecree	also failed, but the company remained in  possessionof  the	 land  on  account of stay  orders  granted  by	 theappellate courts.  In execution the landlord obtained formalpossession  on	October 13, 1950, but the  company  resistedactual	ejectment., on July 1, 1953, the company  institutedproceedings  to recover actual possession of the land  underS.  232	 of the U. P. Zamindari Abolition and  Land  ReformsAct,  1950, claiming to have become an Adhivasi under S.  20thereof.   Section  20 provided that every  person  who	 wasrecorded  as occupant of any land in the Khasra or  Khatauniof 1356 F shall be called an adhivasi of the land and  shallbe565entitled to take or retain possession thereof.	The  companywas recorded in 1356 F in possession of the land in  disputeas  thekedar.  The landlord contended that the	company	 hadnot acquired the rights of an adhivasi : (i) as it being  inpossession in 1366 F under the stay orders of the courts  itWas in occupation not on its own behalf but on behalf of thecourt, and (ii) as it was A recorded as a thekedar in 1356 Fits  possession was not on its own behalf but on  behalf  ofthe landlords, whose thekedar it was.Held,  (per Sinha C. J., Gajendragadkar, Wanchoo  and  Shah,JJ.),  that the company had acquired adhivasi rights in	 theland  and  was entitled to the possession  thereof.   Simplybecause there were stay orders which enabled the company  toremain	in possession, the possession was not on  behalf  ofthe  court.  It remained in possession in the same right  inwhich. it was in possession before the decree was passed  onNovember  3,  1948.   Though the  company  was	recorded  inpossession as a thekedar it was an occupant in its own rightand not on behalf of the landlord.  It was open to the courtto look beyond the entry of the company as a thekedar in theKhasra.Swami Prasad v. Board of Revenue, U. P., 1960 A.L. T. 24  1,Parshotam Das v. Prem Narain, A.I.R. 1956 All. 665,  BirjlalV.  Murli  Pd., 1954 R. D. 175 and Lala Nanak Chand  v.	 TheBoard of Revenue, U. P., 1955 A.L.J. 408, referred to.DAs  GUPTA, J.-The company did not acquire the rights of  anadhivasi.   The word " occupant " means a person in  posses-sion  in  his own right and not on behalf of  someone  else.The  benefit under the section is available only to those  "recorded  as  " occupants ". It is not permissible  to	lookbeyond the record to ascertain whether the claimant has been"recorded  as  occupant ". The record in the khasra  of	 thepossession " as thekedar " amounts to record of " possessionon behalf of thekedar's lessor ".Swamy  Prasad v. Board of Revenue, U. P., 1960	A.L.J.	241,referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No. 196 of 1952.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated October 3,   1950,of  the	 Court	of Board of Revenue, U.	 P.,  Allahabad,  inReview Application No. 161 of 1949-50.			    AndAppeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJanuary	 21, 1956, of the Court of the Board of Revenue,  U.P., Allahabad, in Petition No. 22/1954-55.566C.B. Aggarwala and C. P. Lal, for the Appellants  (In  C.A. No. 196 of 1952) and respondent No. 1 (in C.	  A.  No.  4of 1959).Achhru Ram and Naunit Lal, for the appellants (in  C. A. No.4 of 59) and respondents (in C. A. No. 196 of 52).1960.	 September   6.	 The  Judgment	of  Sinha   C.	 J.,Gajendragadkar, Wanchoo and Shah, JJ. was delivered byWANCHOO	 J.-These two connected appeals will be disposed  ofby  one	 judgment.  Appeal No. 196 of 1952 is by  the  UpperGanges	Sugar  Mills Ltd. (hereinafter called  the  Company)while appeal No. 4 of 1959 is by Mohd.	Khalilul Rehman	 andothers (hereinafter called the landlords).  The brief  factsnecessary  for present purposes are these.  Mukhtiar  Ahmed,father	of the landlords, granted a theka to the Company  inAugust	1933  (corresponding  to 1341 F)  of  the  lands  indispute	 for a period of ten years ending with 1350 F  (June1943).	 The theka contained a clause giving option  to	 theCompany to get it renewed for five years and in	 consequencethe  theka was renewed for five years from 1351 F to 1355  F(that is upto June 1948).  Thereafter the theka provided foroption	to renew the lease with the lessor.  In March  1948,the landlords gave notice to the Company to the effect	thatthe  theka would not be renewed after 1355 F.  The  Company,however'   did not agree to hand over  possession  to  thelandlords and consequently a suit was filed by the landlordsfor  ejectment of the Company under the U. P.  Tenency	Act,1939.  It was resisted by the Company on the ground that  itwas  not a thekadar but a tenant and had  become  hereditarytenant	under  s. 29 of the U. P. Tenancy  Act.	  This	pleafailed and the suit was decreed on November 3, 1948.   Therewas  an	 appeal	 by the Company against	 the  decree.	Thisappeal	also  failed.  Then the Company went  up  in  secondappeal	to  the Board of Revenue and eventually	 the  secondappeal was567dismissed  on  July 22, 1950.  During all this	period	fromNovember  1948	to  July  1950,	 the  Company  remained	  inpossession of the land in dispute on account of stay  ordersobtained  from	the appellate courts.	Execution  began  inOctober 1950 and it is said that possession was delivered tothe landlords on October 13, 1950 and a Dakhalnama was filedon October 15, 1950.  It appears, however, that the  Companyoffered	 resistance  to	 actual ejectment and  this  led  toproceedings  under s. 145 of the Code of Criminal  Procedureand  the  magistrate ordered the attachment of the  land  inNovember 1950 and appointed two superdars (caretakers).	 TheCompany	 applied  to the Board for a certificate  which	 wasgranted;  and  that is how appeal No. 196 has come  to	thisCourt.In the meantime, U. P. Zamindari Abolition and Land  ReformsAct,  1950 (U.	P. I of 1951), (hereinafter called the	Act)came  into  force on July 1, 1953.   The  Company  thereuponinstituted  proceedings to recover actual possession of	 theland  under  s.	 232  of the Act read with  ss.	 12  and  20thereof.  The Sub-Divisional Officer decided in January 1954in favour of the Company and ordered delivery of  possessionto  it holding that the Company was entitled  to  possessionboth  under  s. 12 as well as under s. 20 of the  Act.	 Thelandlords went up in appeal, which was dismissed in January,1955.	The  appellate	court  held  that  the	Company	 wasentitled  to  recover  possession under s. 12  but  did	 notdecide	the  case put forward by the Company  under  s.	 20.Thereupon there was a second appeal to the Board of  Revenuewhich  was  dismissed  in January,  1956.   The	 Board	alsodecided	 the  appeal  on  the basis of s.  12  and  did	 notconsider the case as put forward under s. 20.  The landlordsthen  came to this Court and were granted special  leave  toappeal	in  May 1956; and that is how appeal  No.  4  becamepending in this Court.These  appeals	were heard on November 18,  1959,  and	thisCourt remanded the matter and called for a finding from	 theBoard  whether the Company had acquired any rights under  s.20 of the Act.	The finding has been submitted by the  Boardand is to the 73568effect that the Company is entitled to the benefit of s.  20of the Act and has acquired Adhivasi rights thereunder.It is conceded by learned counsel for the landlords that  ifappeal No. 4 fails and the right of the Company either unders. 12 or under s. 20 is upheld, it would not be necessary togo into appeal No, 196.	 On this view the Company would haveacquired  a  new  right under the Act, which  would  not  beaffected by the decision in appeal No. 196, even if it	goesagainst	 the  Company.	We shall therefore first  deal	withappeal No. 4.Taking the case of the Company under s. 20 first, we have tosee  whether  the  Company  has	 acquired  Adhivasi   rightsthereunder.   The relevant part of s.20 for our purposes  isas follows	      "	    Every person who-	      (a).............................................................	      (b)   was recorded as occupant,-	      (i)of  any land (other than grove	 land  or	      land to which s. 16 applies) in the Khasra  or	      khatauni of 1356 F, prepared under ss. 28	 and	      33 respectively of the U. P. Land Revenue Act,	      1901,  or	 who  was on  the  date	 immediately	      preceding	 the  date of  vesting	entitled  to	      regain  possession  thereof under el.  (e)  of	      sub-s.  (1) of s. 27 of the  United  Provinces	      Tenancy (Amendment) Act, 1947, or	      (ii)...........................................................	      shall unless he' has become a bhumidar of	 the	      land  under  sub-s. (2) of s-18  or  an  asami	      under el. (h) of s. 21, be called adhivasi  of	      the land and shall, subject to the  provisions	      of  this	Act, be entitled to take  or  retain	      possession thereof"Section	 232 of the Act gives right to an Adhivasi  to	whomcl. (b) of s. 20 applies to apply within thirty months	fromthe date of vesting to the Assistant Collector in-charge  ofthe  Sub-Division for putting him in possession of the	landof which he is the Adhivasi.The  question therefore that arises is whether	the  Companywas  recorded  as occupant of the land in dispute  which  isundoubtedly not grove land or land569to  which s. 16 applies.  The word I occupant' used in	thispart  of  the  Act is not a term of art	 and  has  not	beendefined	 anywhere in the Act or in the U. P. Tenancy Act  orin  the Land Revenue Act.  It must therefore be	 given	its'ordinary   dictionary  meaning	which  is  "  a	 person	  inoccupation  ". In order therefore that the Company can	takethe  benefit  of  s.  20 it should  have  been	recorded  inoccupation  of the land in dispute in the year 1356  F.	 Theonly  limitation that has been placed by judicial  decisionson this meaning of the word " occupant " is that the  personshould	be in occupation in his own right and not on  behalfof  someone else. (See Swami Prasad and another v. Board  ofRevenue, U. P. (1) ). So long therefore as a person has beenin occupation in the relevant year in his own right (and noton behalf of someone else) he will be entitled to the rightsconferred  under s. 20 of the Act.  Learned counsel for	 thelandlords  however  contends  that the Company	was  not  inpossession  in	its  own  right and  his  argument  in	thisconnection  is two-fold.  Firstly, it is submitted that	 theCompany was ordered to be ejected on November 3, 1948, whichwas in 1356 F. Thereafter it remained in possession  becauseof  the stay orders passed by the appellate courts to  whichit  went in appeal successively. Therefore even	 though	 theCompany	 was in occupation throughout 1356 F its  possessionafter  November	 3, 1948 was not on its own  behalf  but  on'behalf	 of  the Court.	 Secondly, it is urged that  as	 theCompany was recorded as a thekadar in 1356 F, its possessionwas  not on its own behalf but on behalf of  the  landlords,whose thekadar it was.We are of opinion that there is no force in either of  thesecontentions.   So far as the first contention is  concerned,all  that had happened after November 3, 1948, is  that	 theCompany	 got  stay  orders from	 the  appellate	 courts	 andremained  in possession as before till July 1950,  when	 itssecond	appeal	before	the Board  of  Revenue	was  finallydismissed.  It cannot, however, be said simply because therewere stay orders as a result of which the Company  continuedto(1)  1960 A.L.J. 241.570remain in possession that it was in possession on behalf  ofthe  court.   In such circumstances the	 possession  of	 theCompany,  though  it continued because of the  stay  orders,cannot be held to be on behalf of the court; and it must  bein occupation in the right asserted by it, even though if ithad not obtained the stay orders it would not have  remainedin  possession.	 Learned counsel for the landlords  in	thisconnection relied on Parshotam Das v. Prem Narain (1).	Thatcase,  however,	 is distinguishable because in that  case  areceiver  had  been  appointed and the	person	recorded  inoccupation  of	the  land was held to be the  agent  of	 thereceiver.   Reliance  was also placed on a decision  of	 theBoard of Revenue in Birjlal v. Murli' Pd. (2), where it	 washeld that where a person is recorded as occupant in 1356  F,because of possession acquired on the basis of a stay  orderissued	by a court, his possession will be deemed to  be  onbehalf	of the court and will therefore not qualify him	 foracquisition of the rights of 'an Adhivasi under s. 20.	 Thefacts in that case were somewhat different inasmuch as therewas  redelivery of possession and that is how the person  towhom possession was redelivered was recorded in the  revenuerecords	 in 1356 F as occupant.	 But if that case  means  tolay  down that a person who remains in possession because  astay  order  has been passed by an appellate court  must  bedeemed	to  be in possession on behalf of the court,  it  isincorrect.  In this case the Company was in possession	frombefore	 November  3,  1948,  and  remained  in	  possessionthereafter  because certain stay orders were passed  by	 theappellate  courts.  In the circumstances it must be held  tohave  remained in possession in the same right in  which  itwas   in  possession  before  November	3,  1948,  and	 itspossession thereafter cannot be said to be on behalf of	 thecourt.The next argument on behalf of the landlords is that as	 theCompany was recorded as a thekadar in 1356 F in the  revenuerecords	 it must be held to have remained in  possession  onbehalf	of  the landlords whose thekadar it  was.   In	thisconnection reliance(1) A.I.R. 1956 All. 665.(2) [1954] R.D. 175.571was  placed on Lala Nanak Chand v. The Board of Revenue,  U.P.  (1),  where it was held that what s. 20(b)	requires  isthat  there  should  be an entry of a person's	name  as  anoccupant in the khasra or khatauni of 1356 F; but it is	 notnecessary  that the person  recorded as	 an  occupant shouldalso have been in actual possession.  It is not necessary toconsider  the correctness of that decision in this case	 forit  is	not in dispute here that the Company  was  not	onlyrecorded in possession but was in actual possession in	1356F.  What is contended on behalf of the landlords is that  asthe  Company was recorded as a thekadar in 1356 F it is	 notopen  to the court to go behind that entry and therefore  itmust  be  held	that  the company was  in  occupation  as  athekadar  in that year and thus was in occupation on  behalfof  the	 landlords  and	 not  on  its  own  behalf  In	thisconnection we may point out that the Company claimed that itwas entitled to possession not only as an Adhivasi under  s.20  but	 also  as a hereditary tenant  under  s.  12,  whichprovides that a thekadar under certain circumstances becomesa hereditary tenant.  To meet the Company's case under s. 12the landlords contended that the Company was not a  thekadarin  1356 F because the theka expired on June 30, 1948.	 Thelandlords  were thus taking contradictory positions for	 thepurposes of ss. 12 and 20; in opposition to the claim  unders.  12 they said that the Company was not their thekadar  in1356  F while in opposition to the claim under s.  20,	theysaid  that  the	 Company was not in possession	on  its	 ownbehalf but as their thekadar.  It is argued on their  behalfthat for the purpose of s. 20 all that has to be looked intois  the entry and nothing more and they rely on	 Lala  NanakChand's	 case (1).  That case, however, was  concerned	onlywith  the question whether a person recorded in the  revenuerecords had also to prove actual possession and it was	heldtherein that it was enough that a person should be  recordedin the revenue records as an occupant and it was not  neces-sary  that he should also be actually in possession  in	 therelevant year.	We need say nothing about the(1) 1955 A.L.J.408.572correctness of that decision in the present case.  But	thatcase  was  not	concerned with	the  nature  of	 possession,namely,	 whether  it was on a person's own behalf      or onbehalf	of someone else.  The words in s. 20(b)(i) man	Onlyspeak  of a person being recorded as occupant and  there  isnothing	 in that section as to the nature of the  occupancy,namely whether it is on behalf of the person recorded or  onbehalf	of  somebody else.  That is a matter  which  in	 ouropinion	 must  always be decided on other evidence  for	 theentry  does  not  contemplate recording the  nature  of	 thepossession in the sense of its being on behalf of the personrecorded or on someone-else' behalf We have already observedthat  the expression " occupant " is not defined in the	 Actand  it	 is clear that neither the Act nor  the	 Rules	madeunder it prescribe the form in which the entry specified  bys. 20(b) should be made.  Besides the reference to the thekawas bound to be continued even after its termination so longas  the	 Company  remained in  possession  and	the  lekhpalreceived no order to change it.	 Therefore the contention onbehalf of the landlords that we cannot look beyond the entryof  the	 Company as a thekadar and must hold on	 that  basisthat  it  was in possession on behalf of the  landlords,  isincorrect.  On the landlords' own showing in this case,	 theCompany was not in possession as a thekadar as the theka hadexpired	 before	 1356 F. Under the circumstances we  are  ofopinion that the company was recorded as an occupant in 1356F  and	that the nature of that occupation was	on  its	 ownbehalf	and  was  not either on behalf of the  court  or  onbehalf	of  the landlords.  Therefore the Company  would  beentitled to Adhivasi rights.  On this view it is not  neces-sary to decide whether the Company, is also entitled to	 thebenefit of s. 12.  Appeal No. 4 therefore fails.As  appeal No.4 fails, it is not necessary to decide  appealNo.  196  and that appeal must under  the  circumstances  bedismissed as infructuous.In the circumstances of these two appeals we are of  opinionthat parties should bear their own costs of the two  appealsin.  this Court.  We therefore dismiss the appeals and	passno order as to costs.573DAS  GUPTA  J.-I  have	had the	 advantage  of	reading	 thejudgment  prepared by my brother Mr. Justice Wanchoo; but  Iregret	my  inability to agree that the Upper  Ganges  SugarMills  Ltd  the respondent in Civil Appeal No. 4 of 1959  isentitled to the benefit of s. 20(b)of  the U.  P.  ZamindariAbolition Act.The facts have been fully stated by Mr. Justice Wanchoo	 andit is unnecessary to repeat them.It  is common ground that if the Company, the  Upper  GangesSugar  Mills Ltd., can get the benefit of s. 20(b) or s.  12of the U. P. Zamindari Abolition Act the Civil Appeal No.  4of 1959 must be dismissed and consequently Civil Appeal	 No.196  of 1952 which is by the Company against the  decree  ofejectment  made in favour of the superior landlords must  bedismissed as infructuous.  The relevant portion of s. 20  isin these words:-	      " Every person who (a)	      (b)   was recorded as occupant	      (i)   of	any land (other than grove  land  or	      land to	      which s. 16 applies) in the Khasra or Khatauni	      of  1356	F,  prepared under  ss.	 28  and  33	      respectively  of the U. P. Land  Revenue	Act,	      1901	      (ii)	      shall  unless he has become Bhumidhar  of	 the	      land  under  sub-s. (2) of s. 18 or  an  asami	      under  cl. (h) of s. 21 be called Adhivasi  of	      the  land and shall, subject to the  provision	      of  this	Act, be entitled to take  or  retain	      possession thereof."The  Khasra  and Khatauni have been produced before  us	 andthey  show that the Upper Ganges Sugar Mills Ltd., has	beenrecorded as in possession of the land in dispute.  They alsoshow however that the possession was as a " Thekadar ". Whatwe  have to ask ourselves is, whether these entries  in	 theKhasra	or Khatauni justify the conclusion that the  Companyhas  been recorded as an " occupant " within the meaning  ofa. 20(b).The word " occupant " has not been defined in the Act and ithas  to	 be properly interpreted on a consideration  of	 theentire scheme and the purpose of the574legislation.   It was suggested on behalf of  the  landlords(Appellants  in	 C. X. No. 196 of 1952) that  "	 occupant  "connotes a person who is in possession in his own right	 andnot  on behalf of someone else.	 This was the view taken  bythe  Allahabad	High  Court  in Swami  Prasad  v.  Board  ofRevenue,  U. P. (1).  The correctness of this view  has	 notbeen challenged before us.Bearing in mind this connotation of the word ,,occupant " wehave  to examine the entries in the Khasra and	Khatauni  tosee  whether they amount to the recording of the Company  asan  "  occupant ". It has to be noticed	 that  this  benefitunder  s.  20(b)  is under the	provisions  of	the  sectionavailable to those who are " recorded " as " occupants " andnot to all those who are "occupants ". If the fact of  beingoccupants  was	what  was necessary, and  reference  to	 therecords	 was to be made only in supporting or resisting	 anyclaim  on  that basis, we could	 certainly  look-beyond	 therecord to decide the question.	The Legislature has  thoughtfit  to correlate the benefit to the record as	an  occupantand not merely to the-fact of being an occupant.  The Khasraor  Khatauni  as prepared in the Uttar Pradesh does  not  inany, case record any person as an " occupant "; that is	 whywe have to examine the entries in the record to show whetherthey  record  the facts which are necessary to	satisfy	 theconnotation of the word " occupant ". Looking at the entriesbefore	us  I find that they record the Upper  Ganges  SugarMills'	possession as a Thekadar.  Chapter XI of the  U.  P.Tenancy Act (U. P. XVII of 1939) deals with a Thekadar.	  Itseems  reasonable to hold that in this Chapter, Thekadar  isequated	 to  a farmer of rents,	 and  Thekadar's  possessionordinarily is contemplated to be possession on behalf of hislessor.	  The  record  in the Khasra of possession  "  as  aThekadar " appears to me therefore to amount to record of  "possession  on	behalf of the Thekadar's lessor	 ".  On	 theaccepted  interpretation of the word " occupant " in  s.  20that  it means a person in possession in his own  right	 andnot on(1)  1960 A.L.J. 241575behalf of somebody else, these entries in my opinion must beheld  to record the Upper Ganges Sugar Mills Ltd., as  an  "occupant ". The fact that the Theka had come to an end,	 andyet,  the  Khasra continued to record the  possession  as  "Thekadar " is, I apprehend, wholly beside the question.I  cannot  see how we can look beyond the actual  record  toascertain  whether  the	 claimant has been  "	 recorded asoccupant  "  ;	nor  can I find	 any  way  of  holding	thatpossession  as	" Thekadar " in the record, may or  may	 notmean " possession on behalf of the lessor ". Nor do I  thinkit  possible to say that " occupant " should be	 interpretedto  include  even  one in possession on	 behalf	 of  anotherperson.	  I  therefore find it difficult to agree  that	 theUpper  Ganges Sugar Mills is entitled to the benefit of	 is.20(b) of the U. P. Zamindari Abolition Act.As my learned brethren have taken the view that the  Companyis so entitled to the benefit, full arguments have not	beenheard on the question whether the Company is entitled to thebenefit	 of s. 12 and no arguments were heard in  the  otherappeal,	 viz.,	Civil  Appeal No. 196/52.   I  am  thereforeunable	to  come to any conclusion as to how  these  appealsshould be disposed of.ORDER  OF  COURT.   In view of	the  majority  Judgment	 theappeals are dismissed.	No order as to costs.Appeals dismissed.74576