PETITIONER:SHREEMATI KASHI BAI	Vs.RESPONDENT:SUDHA RANI GHOSE AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:25/02/1958BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1958 AIR  434		  1958 SCR 1402ACT:Adverse	 possession--Coal  mine--Trespass  and	intermittentWorking --Whether can constitute adverse possession.HEADNOTE:The  appellants	 and the respondents were  lessees  of	coalmining rights in adjoining areas.  In 1917 the	predecessorsin  interest of the appellants trespassed into a portion  Dfthe  lands  leased to the predecessors in  interest  of	 therespondents,  sank two inclines and two air shafts and	(lugout  coal therefrom.  There were no mining  operations	till1023  when they were restarted and continued till 1926,	 andwere recommenced in 1931 and carried on till 1933.  In	1939the  mine  was	worked	for  a	short  time.   In  1944	 theoperations were recommenced by the appellants.	In 1945	 therespondents brought a suit for fixation of the	intermediateboundary, for possession of the area trespassed upon and forcompensation  for coal illegally removed by the	 appellants.The  appellants contended, inte alia, that they had been  insole,  exclusive,  uninterrupted possession of the  area  indispute	 openly to the knowledge of the respondents and	 hadacquired title by adverse possession:Held,  that  the  intermittent working of the  mine  in	 themanner	and for the period carried out by the appellants  ortheir  predecessors in interest was wholly  insufficient  toestablish   possession	 which	could	constitute   adversepossession.   During  the period when there were  no  miningoperations  no,	 kind of possession of	the  appellants	 wasproved	 and  the  presumption	that  during  such   periodspossession reverted to the true owner was not rebutted.Nageshwar Bux Roy v. Bengal Coal CO-, [1930] L.R. 58 I.A. 29and  Secretary	of  State for India v.	Debendra  Lal  Khan,[1933] L.R. 61 I.A. 78, distinguished.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos.  118-119of1956.Appeal	from  the judgment and decrees dated  September	 27,1951,  of  the	Patna High Court  in  Appeal  from  OriginalDecrees	 Nos.  252  and	 254 of 1948,  arising	out  of	 thejudgment  and  decrees dated May 11, 1948, of the  Court  ofSubordinate  Judge Dhanbad in Title Suits Nos. 16 and 50  of1945 respectively.1403M.   C.	 Setalvad,  Attorney-General for  India,  KshitindraNath  Bhattacharya,  S.	 N. Andley, J.	B.  Dadachanji	 andRameshwar Nath, for the appellant.N.   C.	 Chatterjee, S. C. Bannerjee and P.  R.	 Chatterjee,for respondents Nos. 7 to 13.P.   K. Chatterjee, for respondents Nos. 2-4 and 6 (Minors).Gauri Dayal, for respondent No. 5.1958.  February 25.  The following Judgment of the Court wasdelivered byKAPUR J.-In these two appeals brought by leave of the  PatnaHigh Court against a judgment and two decrees of that  courta  common  and	the sole question for  decision	 is  one  ofadverse	 possession.  Two cross suits were' brought  in	 theCourt  of  the Subordinate Judge,  Dhanbad,  raising  commonquestions  of  fact and law.  The appellant  and  respondentManilal Becharlal Sangvi were defendants in one (Suit No. 16of 1945) and plaintiffs in the other (Suit No. 50 of  1945).Respondents Nos. 1-3 were the plaintiffs in the former	suitand  defendants in the latter.	The other  respondents	weredefendants  in the latter suit and were added as  plaintiffsat  the	 appellate stage under 0. 1, r. 10,  Code  of  CivilProcedure  in the appeal taken against the decision  in	 theformer	suit.	Both  the suits	 were  decreed	against	 theappellant  and respondent Manilal Bacharlal Sangvi who	tooktwo appeals to the High Court at Patna.	 Both these  appealswere dismissed by one judgment dated September 27, 1951, buttwo decrees were drawn up.  Against this judgment and  thesedecrees the appellant has brought two appeals to this  Courtwhich  were  consolidated and will be disposed	of  by	thisjudgment.The  facts necessary for the decision of these	two  appealsare  that  on  November	 26, 1894  Gang,  Narayan  Singh,  azamindar  and  proprietor of pargana Katras granted  to	 RamDayal Mazumdar a lease of "the coal and coal mining  rights"in  two plots of land, one in mouza Katras and the other  inmouza  Bhupatdih.  On November 6, 1894 he granted a  similarlease in plots1404contiguous  to	the plots in the lease	mentioned  above  toBhudar Nath Roy.  In Suit No. 32 of 1896 boundaries  betweenthese  two sets of plots were fixed and this was shown in  amap  which was incorporated in ,,the decree passed  in	thatsuit.  On the death of Ram Dayal, his sons Prafulla,  Kumud,Sarat,	Sirish	and Girish inherited  the  leasehold  rightswhich  they  on	 October 19, 1918, granted  by	means  of  aregistered  patta  and kabulliat to Lalit Mohan Bose  for  aterm of 999 years.  One Bennett who along with one  Bellwoodhad  obtained  a coal mining lease from Raja  Sakti  NarayanSingh of Katrasgarh on September 5, 1917, trespassed on	 thenorthern portion of the land within the area leased to LalitMohan  Bose and sank two inclines and two airshafts and	 dugout  coal  from	 this area.  This gave	rise  to  a  disputebetween the parties which was amicably settled and the	areatrespassed  was	 returned to the possession of	Lalit  MohanBose.	This  fact was denied by the appellant	and  ManilalBecharlal  Sengvi respondent in their written statement	 andin  their plaint.  Lalit Mohan Bose died in 1933  leaving  awill  of which the executors were his widow, Radha Rani	 andhis  brother Nagendra Nath Bose.  They leased out 17  bighasof land in possession of Lalit Mohan Bose to Keshabji  Laljiin 1933.  The remaining portion of the area leased to  LalitMohan  Bose  was  given	 on lease  on  March  15,  1938,  toBrojendra Nath Ghose and Vishwa Nath Prasad respondents	 andto  -Ram  Chand Dubey but the possession  thereof  had	beengiven  to  them	 in  July  1937	 and  they  (the  above	 tworespondents)  and  Ram	Chandra Dubey  carried	on  collierybusiness in the name and style of West Katras Colliery.	  Onthe  death of Ram Chandra Dubey his estate was inherited  byhis  sons and widow who on June 25, 1944, sold their  right,title  and  interest to Nagendra Nath  Bose.   These  three,i.e., Brojendra Nath Ghose, Vishwa Nath Prasad and  NagendraNath Bose were the plaintiffs in Suit No. 16 of 1945.As  stated above Raja Sakti Narayan Singh leased an area  of256 bighas to Bennett and Bellwood on September 5, 1917, andthey assigned their rights to1405the  New Katras Coal Company Limited.  This  Company  workedthe coal mine for some time but went into liquidation and inExecution Case No. 293 of 1922 the right, title and interestof  the company were sold and purchased by  Nanji  Khengarjifather-in  law. of Shrimati Kashi Bai appellant and  by	 oneLira  Raja.   In August 1923 Nanji Khengarji and  Lira	Rajaeffected a partition, the western portion of the leased coalfield  fell to the share of Nanji Khengarji and the  easternportion to Lira Raja.  The former carried on the business inthe  name  and	style  of Khengarji Trikoo  &  Co.  and	 theColliery  came to be known as Katras New Colliery.   On	 thedeath  of  Nanji  Khengarji in 1928 his	 son  Ratilal  Nanjiinherited the estate and on his death in September 1933	 theestate	passed	to the appellant reemati  KashiBai,widow  ofRatilal.  In December 1944 she (Sreemati Kashi Bai)  enteredinto a partnership with Manilal Becharlal Sengvi respondent.On March 24, 1945 Brojendra Natb.  Ghose, Vishwa Nath Prasadand  Nagendra Nath Bose respondents Nos. 1-3  as  plaintiffsNos.  1-3  brought  a suit (Suit No.  16  of  1945)  againstSreemati  Kashi	 Bai,  defendant No. 1,	 now  appellant	 andagainst	 Manilal  Becharlal  Sengvi  defendant	No.  2	 nowrespondent No. 10 for fixation of the intermediate  boundaryand  for  possession  of the area  trespassed  upon  by	 thedefendants  and for compensation for coal illegally  removedby the latter and also for an injunction. They alleged	thatthe  defendants had wrongfully taken possession of the	areain  dispute shown in the map attached to the plaint and	 hadillegally  removed coal from their mine.  The defendants  intheir  written	statement  of  June  29,  1945,	 denied	 theallegations  made by the plaintiffs.  They pleaded that	 thearea  in  dispute was acquired by Nanji Khengarji  and	LiraRaja and had been worked by them and they had been in  sole,exclusive,  uninterrupted and undisturbed possession of	 thearea openly to the knowledge of the plaintiffs in that	suitand had therefore acquired title by adverse possession.	 Theclaim of ownership which they had set up as a result1406of  acquisition from Bennett and Bellwood was  negatived  bythe courts below and is no longer in dispute before us,	 thesole point that survives being one of adverse possession.The cross suit No. 50 of 1945 was brought by the  defendantsin Suit No. 16 of 1945, i.e., Shrimati Kashi Bai (appellant)and Manilal Becharlal Sengvi (respondent) against the  threeplaintiffs of suit No. 16 of 1945 (respondents Nos.  I to 3)and  against heirs of Lalit Mohan Bose and against  PurnenduNarayan Singh son of the original grantor Raja Sakti NarayanSingh.	The allegations by the plaintiff in this suit (	 No.50  of 1945) were the same as their pleas as  defendants  inSuit No. 16 of 1945.  The two suits were tried together withcommon	issues.	 The learned Subordinate Judge decreed	SuitNo. 16 of 1945 and dismissed Suit No. 50 of 1945 which	werethus both decided in favour of respondents Nos.	 I to 3.  Heheld  that the land in suit was included in the area  leasedto  respondents Nos.  I to 3, i.e., Brojendra  Nath,  VishwaNath Prasad and Nagendra Nath Bose and therefore the area inwhich two inclines of seam No. 9 were situate formed part ofthe  area  leased  to  them and	 that  encroachment  by	 theappellant  and	Manilal Becharlal Sengvi respondent  on	 theland  in  dispute was proved.  As to adverse  possession  heheld  that the two inclines and airshafts had been  sunk  in1917  by  Bennett  in seam No. 9; that	there  had  been  nocontinuous  working of the seam by Khengarji Trikoo  &	Co.,except	from  the year 1923 to 1926 and from 1931  to  1933,working	 was  again  begun  in 1939  but  how  long  it	 wascontinued  had not been proved and that the working of	thisseam had restarted in 1944.  He also found that the disputedarea was confined to seam No. 9. From these facts he was  ofthe   opinion  that  there  was	 no  dispossession  of	 therespondents  Nos. 1 to 3 and no adverse possession had	beenestablished  as	 against  them.	 He further  held  that	 theworking	 of  a part of seam (No. 9) would not  give  to	 thetrespasser  the right to the entire seam even if  continuouspossession  was	 proved.   In  regard  to  compensation	 thelearned Subordinate Judge held that1407respondents  Nos.   I  to  3 were entitled  to	it  as	fromDecember  1944	and the amount would be	 determined  by	 theappointment of a Commissioner in a subsequent proceeding.The High Court on appeal confirmed the findings of the trialCourt and held that the land in dispute was part of the landleased	to respondents Nos.  I to 3; that the appellant	 andManilal Becharlal Sangvi respondent had encroached upon	 theland  in dispute; that the working of the seam had not	beencontinuous  and	 it  had only been worked  for	the  periodsmentioned  above.   The High Court also held  that  even  ifthere  was continuous possession and working of the mine  notitle  by adverse possession could be acquired to the  wholeof the mine.  In the High Court the validity of the lease infavour of the respondents Nos.	I to 3 was raised because ofs.  107 of the Transfer of Property Act but as the  questionhad not been raised or agitated in the trial Court, the HighCourt  allowed defendants 4 to 10 of Suit No. 50 of 1945  tobe added in the appeal arising out of Suit No. 16 of 1945  "for  complete  adjudication  of	 the  issues  and  to  avoidmultiplicity  of  proceedings ". This question	is  also  nolonger in dispute before us.  The appellant has brought	 twoappeals	 against  the judgment and two decrees of  the	HighCourt of Patna.	 As the question of ownership of the land indispute	 has  been decided in favour of the  respondents  byboth  the  courts below, that question has not	been  raisedbefore	us  and	 the  controversy  between  the	 parties  isconfined solely to the question of adverse possession.On  behalf  of	the appellant  the  learned  AttorneyGeneralsubmitted  that the carrying on of the mining operations  inthe area in dispute even though intermittent as found by thecourts	below  could  only lead to one	inference  that	 thepossession  of	the area as well as of the mine was  of	 theappellant and as she had prescribed for the requisite periodof  12 years, her possession had matured into  ownership  byadverse	 possession.  In our opinion the operations  carriedon  by the appellant were inconsistent with the	 continuous,open and hostile possession or with the assertion of1408hostile	 title	for  the  prescribed  period  of  12   yearsnecessary   to	constitute  adverse  possession.    It	 wascontended  that	 for the purpose of  adverse  possession  inregard	to a coal mine it was not necessary that  it  shouldhave  been  worked  for 12 years  continuously	and  it	 wassufficient if the appellant had carried on mining operationsfor a period of 12 years even with long stoppages as in	 theinstant case.  But we are unable to accept this	 contention.Even  though  it  may not be necessary for  the	 purpose  ofestablishing  adverse possession over a coal mining area  tocarry  on mining operation continuously for a period  of  12years, continuous possession of the mining area and the minewould  be  a  necessary	 ingredient  to	 establish   adversepossession.   What has been proved by the appellant is	thatthe  two inclines opened by Bennett were worked in  1917  or1918 by the predecessor in interest of the appellant,  therewere no mining operations till 1923 when they were restartedand were continued till 1926.  The operations ceased in 1926and  were recommenced in 1931 and carried on till 1933	whenthey ceased again till 1939 and whether they were carried onin  1939  or  not  is not quite	 clear	but  there  were  nooperations  from 1939 to 1944 when they were recommenced  bythe  appellant, During the period when there were no  miningoperations  no kind of possession of the appellant has	beenproved and thus the presumption of law is not rebutted	thatduring	the  period  when the operations had  ceased  to  becarried on the possession would revert to the true owner.Nageshuar  Bux Roy v. Bengal Coal Co. (1) which	 was  reliedupon  by the learned Attorney-General does not	support	 hiscontention.   In  that	case the  company  claiming  adversepossession  had placed facts which were consistent with	 theassertion  of  rights to minerals in the  whole	 village  towhich  the company claimed adverse possession.	They  openlysank  pits at three different places, two of them being	 1/2mile distant from the 3rd.  The company selected the  placeswhere they were to dig up the pits at their own discretion,(1)  [1930] L.R. 58 I.A. 29,1409brought	 their plant or machinery on the ground and  erectedbungalows for their employees.	There was no concealment  onthe  part of the company and they behaved openly as  personsin  possession	of  not	 one  pit  but	all  mineral  fieldsunderlying the whole village and they throughout claimed  tobe entitled to sink pits anywhere in the village they chose.The,  company was under a bona fide belief that under  theirlease  they were entitled to work the minerals	anywhere  inthe area.  In these circumstances the Privy Council held thesuit  to be barred by Art. 144 of the Limitation Act as	 thecompany had been in adverse possession of the minerals underthe  whole village for more than 12 years.  It	was  pointedout by Lord Macmillan at p. 35, "possession is a question offact  and  the extent of possession may be an  inference  offact ". And at p.   37 it was observed:" Their Lordships are not at all disposed to negative or  toweaken	the principle that as a general rule where title  isfounded	 on an adverse possession the title will be  limitedto  that area of which actual possession has  been  enjoyed.But  the application of this general rule must	depend	uponthe facts of the particular case."The  finding  in favour of adverse possession in  that	casemust be confined to the facts of that particular case.Another case relied upon by the learned AttorneyGeneral	 wasSecretary of State for India v. Debendra Lal Khan(1).  Therea  zamindar claimed title to a fishery in a navigable  riverby  adverse possession against the Crown.  It was held	thatpossession may be adequate in continuity so as to be adverseeven though the proved acts of possession do not cover everymoment	of  the	 period.   That	 was  a	 case  dealing	withfisheries.  It is true that to establish adverse  possessionnature of possession may vary.	In the instant case no	suchpossession  has been proved which taking into  considerationthe  nature  of	 possession and the  nature  of	 the  objectpossessed  would  lead	to  the	 only  inference  that	 theappellant had perfected her(1)  [1933] L.R. 61 I.A. 78.1410title  by adverse possession.  Intermittent working  of	 themine  in  the manner and for the period described  above  iswholly	insufficient  to establish  possession	which  wouldconstitute adverse possession or would	lead to an inferenceof adverse possession and we are in agreement with the	viewexpressed  by  the High Court and  would  therefore  dismissthese  appeals with costs. One set of costs between the	 twoappeals except as to Court-fees.Appeals dismissed.