PETITIONER:HOSHIARPUR CENTRAL CO-OPERATIVE BANK LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, SIMLA.DATE OF JUDGMENT:02/08/1960BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.DAS, S.K.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1303ACT:Income-tax--Co-operative Society--Profits earned in businesswith  non-members--Whether exempt from tax--Income-tax	Act,1921 (IX of 1921), s. 60, notification.HEADNOTE:The  assessee  Bank, which was a co-operative  society,	 didbusiness is controlled commodities with the approval of	 theRegistrar  of Co-operative Societies and earned profits.  itclaimed	 that these profits were also exempt  from  taxationunder F. D. (C.	 R.) Notification R. Dis.  NO. 291-1.  T./25dated August 25, 1925, as subsequently amended, issued unders.  60	of the income-tax Act.	This  notification  exempted"the profits of any co-operative society " from tax.  It wasurged  for  the	 Department that  these	 words	referred  toprofits made by a co-operative society in its business as  apure  co-operative society, i.e., in business with  its	 ownmembers within the four corners of the Cooperative SocietiesAct, 1912, and the bye-laws made thereunder.Held, that the said profits were exempt from tax.  The wordsof  the Notification were wide enough to include profits  ofbusiness of a co-operative society in transactions with non-members also.  It was always open to the appropriate Govern-ment to allow a society to extend its business operations totrading with persons other than its members.  Once there wassuch108extension,  the	 profits of the society from  such  businessfell  within  the general words of the Notification  and  itrequired  more	than  a	 supposed  underlying  intention  tonegative the exemption.The  Madras  Central  Urban, Bank Ltd.	v.  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax,  (1929)  I.L.R. 52 Mad. 640, F. B.,	 The  MadrasProvincial Co-operative Bank Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax,  (1933)  I.L.R. 56 Mad. 837 F. B. and  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax, Burma v. The Bengalee Urban Co-operative  CreditSociety Ltd., (1933) I.L.R. 11 Ran. 521, distinguished.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No. 238 of 1955.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated May 27,  1953,  ofthe Punjab High Court in Civil Reference No. 3/1952.Deva Singh Bandhava and K. L. Mehta, for the appellant.M.   C.	  Setalvad,  Attorney-General  for  India,   K.	  N.Rajagopal Sastri and D. Gupta, for the respondent.1960.  August 2. The Judgment of the court was delivered byHIDAYATULLAH  J.-This is an appeal against the judgment	 andorder  of the High Court of Punjab with the  certificate  ofthe  Court granted under s. 66A(2) of the Indian  Income-taxAct.The Hoshiarpur Central Co-operative Bank, Ltd.,	 Hoshiarpur,hereinafter referred to as the Bank, is the appellant.,	 andthe  Commissioner of Income-tax, Simla, is  the	 respondent.For the assessment years 1948-49 and 1949-50, the Income-taxOfficer	 included  in  the assessment of  the  Bank  certainincome which had accrued to the Bank as profits from tradingin controlled commodities like sugar, cloth, kerosene, etc.,which the Bank was allowed to deal in, with the approval  ofthe Registrar of Co-operative Societies conveyed in a letterdated September 28, 1954.  The Bank claimed exemption  undera notification issued Under s. 60 of the Income-tax Act, butthe  contention was not accepted.  On appeal, the  AppellateAssistant  Commissioner	 reversed the  decision,  which,  onfurther	 appeal,  was reversed by  the	Appellate  Tribunal,Delhi Branch.  The Appellate Tribunal, however, raised,109and referred the following question to the High Court  unders. 66(1) of the Income-tax Act:"  Where  a co-operative Bank deals in	sugar  and  standardcloth  with special permission of the authorities and  earnsincome from such activities, is such income exempt from	 taxunder  item 2 of the Government of India Notification F.  D.(C.   R.) Notification R. Dis.	No. 291-1.  T/25 dated	25thAugust,	 1925, as subsequently amended	(Income-tax  Manual,10th Edition, Part II, pages 257-258) ?"The  High Court answered the question against the Bank,	 butcertified  the	case as fit for appeal to  this	 Court,	 andhence this appeal.It is admitted on all bands that the profits were made	fromtrading	 in  certain commodities with the  approval  of	 theRegistrar  of Co-operative Societies.  The quantum  and	 themanner in which those profits were made, are not in dispute.The  short question in this appeal is whether the  exemptiongranted	  by   the  notification  covers  the	case.	 Thenotification reads as follows:"  Income  included  in total income but  exempt  from	bothincome-tax and super-tax:The  following classes of income shall be exempted from	 thetax  payable  under the said Act, but shall  be	 taken	intoaccount	 in determining the total income of an assessee	 forthe purposes of the said Act:-1..................2.   The profits of any Co-operative Society other than	 theSanikatta  Saltowners' Society in the Bombay Presidency	 forthe  time being registered under the Co-operative  SocietiesAct,  1912 (11 of 1912), the Bombay  Co-operative  SocietiesAct,  1925 (Bombay Act VII of 1925), the Burma	Co-operativeSocieties Act, 1927 (Burma Act VI of 1927) or the Madras Co-operative  Societies Act, 1932 (Madras Act VI of  1932),  orthe  dividends or other payments received by the members  ofany such society out of such profits.Explanation:For	 this purpose the profits of a	Co-operativeSociety	 shall not be deemed to include any income,  profitsor gains from:-(1)  Investment in (a) securities of the nature110referred  to in Section 8 of the Indian Income-tax  Act,  or(b) property of the nature referred to in Section 9 of	thatAct;(ii) dividends, or(iii)	  the  other sources' referred to in Section  12  ofthe Indian Income-tax Act."The  Income-tax Officer held  that the profits made  by	 theBank were not the profits in a co-operative venture but fromtrading	 with outsiders, and that, therefore, para 2 of	 thenotification  did  not cover them.  He also held  that	thisincome	fell within it other sources " referred to  in	item(iii)	of   the  Explanation.	 The   Appellate   AssistantCommissioner held that these were profits of a	Co-operativeSociety,  and  were  within para  2,  and  were,  therefore,excempt	 from  tax.  Both the Tribunal and  the	 High  Courtaccepted the reasoning of the Income-tax Officer with regardto para 2, but the High Court did not express any opinion asto whether the third item of the Explanation applied to	 thecase or not.Before	us, the learned Attorney-General appearing  for	 theDepartment  did	 not put his case on  the  Explanation,	 andnothing	 more  need be said about it.  It may,	however,  bementioned that " other sources " there has reference to	 thescheme	of  s. 6 of the Indian Income-tax Act,	and  profitsfrom  business of whatever kind, are dealt with under s.  10of  the Act.  The short question thus is whether para  2  isconfined only to profits made by a Co-operative Society fromtransactions with its own members and does not cover profitsmade in business with outsiders.It may be pointed out that there are some cases to be found,in which it was held, before the notification was amended bythe  addition  of  the Explanation,  that  the	second	paraexempted   profits   made  by  a  Cooperative	Society	  intransaction with its members and not to profits made in	 anyother  way.   The  question is	whether	 such  a  restrictedmeaning can be imputed to the very wide and general terms inwhich para 2 is couched.The   question	is  plainly  one  of  construction  of	 thenotification.  In support of the case of the Department,111the  learned Attorney-General relies on two  arguments.	  Hefirst refers to the opening words of the second para of	 thenotification, viz., " The profits of any Cooperative Society". These words, it is argued, refer to profits made by a Co-operative  Society  in its business as a  pure	Co-operativeSociety,  or,  in  other words, in  business  with  its	 ownmembers	  within  the  four  corners  of  the	Co-operativeSocieties Act, 1912 and the byelaws made under that Act.No  doubt,  a  Co-operative  Society  primarily	 exists	 forbusiness with members and not for business with non-members;but  the  words	 of the notification  and  even	 those	morespecifically  relied  upon, are wide enough to	include	 anybusiness  whether  of the one kind or other.  It  cannot  bedenied	that  the  Bank is a  Co-operative  Society  and  isclaiming the exemption only as such, and further that it  isclaiming the exemption in respect of profits from a businesscarried on by it. It was for this reason that the attempt tobring the profits within " other, sources " covered by s. 12of  the Indian Income-tax Act was rightly abandoned in	thisCourt.	If this is the obvious position, it follows that thewords  " the profits of any Co-operative Society " are	wideenough	to  cover profits-from any business,  and  there  isnothing	 to show that the profits there mentioned  are	onlythe profits from business with members.It  is	next argued that a Co-operative Society	 exists	 forbusiness  with members, and that the Co-operative  SocietiesAct  and the bye-laws of the Bank reflect this character  ofthe  business undertakings.  This intention  underlying	 theCo-operative Societies Act and the bye-laws, it is urged, isthe  key to the interpretation of the notification,  and  itmust,  therefore, be limited to profits from  business	withmembers	 only.	 In support of this argument,  reference  ismade  to observations in The Madras Central Urban Bank	Ltd.v. Commissioner of Income-tax (1), The Madras Provincial Co-operative  Bank	 Ltd. v. Commissioner of  Income-tax(2)	 andCommissioner of Income-tax, Burma v. The Bengalee Urban(1)  (1929) I.L.R. 52 Mad. 640 F.B.(2)  (1933) I.L.R. 56 Mad. 837 F.B.112Co-operative Credit Society, Ltd. (1), where it was  pointedout that the notification covered only profits from businesswith members.  The first two cases were of interest  derivedfrom moneys invested in Government Securities to comply withorders of Government to the Societies to keep 40 per cent ofthe total liabilities always ready at hand, and it was	saidthat  the profits were not from business with  members.	  Inthe  last  of the three cases, it was pointed out  that	 theexemption was grounded on the principle that a person cannotmake  a	 loss  or  profits out	of  himself',  and  strictlyspeaking,  only such profits as were made in  business	withmembers were exempt.The  position  since  these  cases  were  decided  has	beenmaterially altered by the addition of the Explanation.	 TheExplanation  now takes us back to the kinds of income to  befound  in s. 6 of the Indian Income-tax Act  where  businessprofits are, in a category by themselves, more	exhaustivelytreated	 in  s.	 10.  There are other  heads  of  income  ofdistinct  characteristics which are treated separately,	 andthen  there is a residuary head which includes	income	from,other	sources" which for that reason are innominate.	 TheExplanation  cannot be said to imply a general	approval  ofthe  earlier decisions.	 Such a conclusion does	 not  neces-sarily follow, because if the paragraph of the	notificationwas  clear  enough  there  was	hardly	any  need  for	 theExplanation.   The addition of the Explanation	clears	oncefor all any doubt that might have arisen as to the ambit  ofthe word " profits".  After the addition of the	 Explanationand  even before it, the word denoted profits from  businessand not income which arose, apart from business.It  must  not  be  overlooked that  at	the  time  when	 thenotification was first issued and also when it was  amended,it  was	 not even contemplated that  Co-operative  Societieswould  be permitted to deal in commodities in  short  supplywith  a view to ensuring their equitable distribution  amongthe  consumers.	  It  was,  however,  always  open  to	 theappropriate  Government	 to allow a Society  to	 extend	 itsbusiness operations to(1)  (9133) I.L.R. 11 Ran. 521113trading	 with  persons	other than its	members	 subject  toconditions and restrictions, vide s. 31 of the	Co-operativeSocieties Act.	This has, in fact, been done here.Once  there  is	 this extension of the	business  of  a	 Co-operative  Society,  the general words of  the	notificationinclude the profits from such business within the exemption,and  it	 would	require	 more  than  a	supposed  underlyingintention to negative the exemption.  To gather the  meaningof the notification in the light of an alleged intention  isto  reverse the well-known canon of interpretation.  In	 ouropinion, the profits were exempt under the notification, andthe  answer  to	 the  question ought to	 have  been  in	 theaffirmative.In  the result, we allow the appeal with costs here  and  inthe High Court.				       Appeal allowed.