PETITIONER:REHMAN SHAGOO AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:STATE OF JAMMU AND KASHMIRDATE OF JUDGMENT:10/09/1959BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1960 AIR    1		  1960 SCR  (1) 680ACT:       Constitution-Legislative	 competence of Ruler of	 Jammu	and       Kashmir-ordinance Promulgated creating new offence of aiding       the enemy and prescribing trial by special Judges  following       special	procedure--If discriminatory-Whether Ordinance	was       legislation  with  respect to defence-Defence,  meaning	of-       Repeal	of  law	 empowering  Ruler   to	  legislate-Whether       Ordinance  survives--Cessation  of  emergency-If	  Ordinance       occasioned  by  emergency  also	lapses	Jammu  and  Kashmir       Constitution Act, S. 1996, s. 5-- Enemy Agents Ordinance, S.       2005  (J.  K. Ordinance VIII Of S. 2005) Jammu  and  Kashmir       Constitution  (Amendment)  Act, S. 2005 (J.  K. XVII  Of	 S.       2005)--jammu  and Kashmir General Clauses Act, s.  1977	(J.       K. XX Of S. 1977), S. 16(b)-Constitution of India, Art.	 14       Part XVIII.HEADNOTE:Under  the  Jammu and Kashmir Constitution Act	all  powers,legislative, executive and judicial vested in the Ruler.  Onthe accession of the State to India on October 22, 1947, thepowers	 in  respect  of  defence,  external   affairs	 andcommunications	were  ceded  to India.	Under S.  5  Of	 theConstitution  Act,  the Ruler promulgated the  Enemy  AgentsOrdinance,  S.	2005,  which  provided	for  the  trial	 andpunishment  of	enemy agents and other	persons	 siding	 theenemy.	 The  Ordinance provided for trial  of	offences  bySpecial	  judges  and  prescribed  a  procedure	  materiallydifferent  from	 that  followed	 in  the  criminal   Courts.Section	 5 of the Constitution Act was repealed on  November17,   1951.   The  appellants  were  prosecuted	 under	 theOrdinance  for	offences alleged to have been  committed  onJune 27 and 28, 1957.  They contended (1) that the Ordinanceviolated Art. 14 of the Constitution of India, (ii) that theRuler  had no legislative competence to issue the  Ordinanceas it dealt with defence, (iii) that S- 5 of the681J.   K. Constitution Act having been repealed the  Ordinancecame to	  an end, (iv) that the Ordinance had lapsed as	 theemergency on   account	of which it was issued	had  ceased,and  (v) that the Ordinance was void as it was	inconsistentwith   the  Emergency  Provisions  in  Part  XVIII  of	 theConstitution of India.Held,  that  the  Ordinance  was  intra	 vires,	 valid	 andsubsisting.The  Ordinance was riot discriminative and did	not  violateArt.  14 Of the Constitution.  In view of the  circumstancesexisting  in the State, " enemy agents " and  other  personsaiding the I, enemy " to whom the Ordinance applied formed areasonable   classification   which  was   founded   on	  anintelligible  differentia which distinguished  such  personsfrom  others and the differentia had a rational relation  tothe object of the Ordinance which was to check subversion ofthe Government.	 Besides, if the Ordinance did not make	 anyclassification	of persons but only created an	offence	 andprovided  stringent procedure and punishment then there	 wasno  discrimination  at all as everybody	 who  committed	 theoffence was subjected to the same procedure.Ram  Krishna Dalmia v. Shri justice S. R. Tendolkar,  [1959]S.C.R. 279 followed.The  Ordinance was not legislation with respect	 to  defenceand was within the legislative competence of the Ruler.	 Theentry  " defence " dealt only with the armed forces  whetheron land or sea or in the air and the raising or	 maintenanceof such forces and their operations.  The Ordinance dealt inthe  main with certain acts done with the intent to aid	 theenemy though indirectly it was concerned with the operationsof  the armed forces.  In pith and substance  the  Ordinancewas  a	law  relating  to public  order,  criminal  law	 andprocedure and not defence.Though	s.  5  Of  the Constitution  Act  was  repealed	 theOrdinance  was	saved by s. 6(b) of the	 Jammu	and  KashmirGeneral	 Clauses  Act.	Section 6(b) saved,  inter  alia,  "anything  duly	don(, " under a repealed enactment  and	 theOrdinance  was	a  thing  duly done "  under  s.  5  of	 theConstitution Act.The Ordinance was a permanent piece of legislation.  It cameinto existence because of an emergency but that was only theoccasion  for  passing it.  Being a permanent law  it  couldonly  be brought to an end by means of repeal  by  competentauthority.The  Emergency Provisions in Ch.  XVIII of the	Constitutionof India had nothing to do with the validity or otherwise ofthe Ordinance and the question of any inconsistency  betweenthe Ordinance and these provisions did not arise.JUDGMENT:       CRIMINAL	 APPELATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No.  60	 of       1958.       Appeal from the judgment and order dated the, 19th  February       1958, of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court, in Writ  Petition       No. 53 of 1957.       682       R. V. S. Mani, for the appellants.       Jaswant	Singh, Advocate-General for the State of Jammu	and       Kashmir, G. S. Pathak and T. M. Sen for the respondent.       1959.   September  10.	The  Judgment  of  the	Court	was       delivered by       WANCHOO J.-This appeal, on a certificate granted under  Art.       132  of	the Constitution of India (hereinafter	called	the       Constitution) by the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir, raises       the  constitutionality of the Enemy Agents  Ordinance),	No.       VIII   of  S.  2005  hereinafter	 called	  the	Ordinance),       promulgated  by	His Highness under s. 5 of  the	 Jammu	and       Kashmir	Constitution Act, S. 1996, (hereinafter called	the       Constitution-Act).  The appellants also made an	application       under  Art.  132 (3) of the Constitution to this	 Court	for       permission  to urge other grounds taken by them in the  High       Court  besides those relating to the interpretation  of	the       Constitution.   We intimated at the outset of the  arguments       that this application was being allowed and learned  counsel       for the appellants was permitted to make his submissions	 on       all points raised in the High Court.       The  appellants are being prosecuted before a Special  Court       constituted  under the Ordinance for offences under s. 3	 of       the  Ordinance, ss. 3, 4 and 5 of the  Explosive	 Substances       Act,  (VI of 1908), s. 120-B of the Penal Code and s. 29	 of       the Public Security Act read with rr. 28 and 32 of the Rules       thereunder.   The  incidents out of which  this	prosecution       arose took place on June 27 and 28, 1957.       The  circumstances in which the Ordinance came to be  passed       were  these:  Outside  raiders began  attacking	Kashmir	 on       October 22, 1947.  The State acceded to India on October 26,       1947.   It appears that the Enemy Agents Ordinance, No.	XIX       of  S. 2004 was enacted soon after in January  1948.   There       was " cease-fire " on January 1, 1949 and the raids came	 to       an  end.	 This was followed by the present  Ordinance  which       became law an January 24, 1949.	The preamble to the  Ordin-       ance says that an emergency had arisen as a result of       683       wanton  attacks by outside raiders and enemies of the  State       which  made  it	necessary  to provide  for  the	 trial	and       punishment  of enemy agents and persons	committing  certain       offences	 with  intent  to  aid the  enemy  and	as  it	was       necessary to amend Ordinance XIX of S. 2004, therefore,	the       Ordinance was passed consolidating the law and repealing the       earlier Ordinance.       The  main  contentions of the appellants in the	High  Court       were  that  the Ordinance was unconstitutional and  void	 by       reason  of the violation of Art. 14 of the Constitution	and       that His Highness had no legislative competence to enact	 it       and  that  in any case it came to an end when s.	 5  of	the       Constitution-Act was repealed in 1951.       The  High Court was of the view that there was a	 reasonable       classification and that the classification was founded on an       intelligible  differentia  which	 distinguished	persons	 or       things that were grouped together from those left out of the       group  and the differentia had a rational relation with	the       object sought to be achieved by the Ordinance.  It therefore       held  that  the Ordinance was not hit by Art.  14.   It	was       further	of  the	 view that  His	 Highness  had	legislative       competence  to promulgate the Ordinance when he did  so	and       that when certain subjects were made over to the	 Government       of India by the Instrument of Accession, the State  retained       its  powers to legislate even on these subjects so  long	 as       the  State  law	was not repugnant to any law  made  by	the       Central Legislature, thus holding that there was	 concurrent       power  in  the  State  to legislate  even  on  the  subjects       transferred to the Government of India.	Finally., the  High       Court  held that the repeal of s. 5 of the  Constitution-Act       did not result in the Ordinance coming to an end, as s. 6 of       the  Jammu  and Kashmir General Clauses Act saved  it.	It,       therefore,   dismissed  the  writ  petition  filed  by	the       appellants.       The  main contentions of the appellants before us are  these       :-       (1)The  Ordinance is unconstitutional as it violates  Art.       14 of the Constitution.       (2)There was no legislative competence in His Highness  to       issue the Ordinance under s. 5 of the       684       Constitution   Act,  as	His  Highness  had   executed	the       Instrument of Accession on October 26, 1947 surrendering his       powers	regarding  Defence,  Communications  and   External       Affairs	to the Government of India and the  Ordinance  came       under the head Defence ".       (3)Section  5 of the Constitution-Act was repealed  by  an       amending	 Act, No. XVII of S. 2005, passed on  November	17,       1951, and therefore the Ordinance also came to an end on the       day s. 5 was repealed.       (4)The Ordinance has in any case lapsed as the  conditions       under  which it was enacted had become obsolete and did	not       exist any more.       (5)The Ordinance was void as it was inconsistent with Art.       352 of the Constitution and the Articles following.       Re. (1)       The  Ordinance defines " enemy " and " enemy agent in s.	 2.       Section	3 provides that whoever is an enemy agent or,  with       intent to aid the enemy, does or attempts or conspires  with       any  other person to do any act which is designed or  likely       to give assistance to the military or air operations of	the       enemy or to impede the military or air operations of  Indian       forces  or His Highness' forces or the forces of any  Indian       State or to endanger life or is guilty of incendiarism shall       be  liable to various punishments.  Section 4 provides  that       any  offence  punishable under s. 3 shall be  triable  under       this Ordinance and that where any other offence is committed       along with an offence under s. 3 which may be jointly  tried       under the Code of Criminal Procedure, a special Judge trying       the  offence under s. 3 shall also try the other offence	 in       accordance  with the procedure laid down by  the	 Ordinance.       Section	5  provides  for appointment  and  jurisdiction	 of       Special Judges.	Section 6 gives power to the government	 of       the State to transfer proceedings from one Special Judge	 to       another and provides for the procedure to be followed by the       Special Judge to whom a case is transferred.  Section 7 lays       down that the procedure for trial of warrant cases shall	 be       followed by Special			685       Judges  and  no commitment proceedings would  be	 necessary.       This  action%  also gives powers to Special  Judges  in	the       matter  of  recording  evidence,	 summoning  witnesses	and       adjournments  and the Special Judge is deemed to be a  Court       of  Session.  Section 8 provides for sentences to be  passed       by  the	Special	 Judge.	 Section 9 provides  for  power	 of       review  by  a  Judge of the High Court,	designated  by	the       Government  and	the decision of such Judge is  made  final.       Section	10  gives  power  to  the  Special  Judge  and	the       Reviewing  Judge	 to  hear proceedings in camera	 if  it	 is       expedient in the interest of public safety or the defence of       the  State so to do.  Section 11 days down that	an  accused       person  triable	under the Ordinance may be defended  by	 a'       pleader	if the Special Judge or the Reviewing Judge  grants       permission  in  this  behalf and also  gives  power  to	the       Special	Judge or the Reviewing Judge to appoint	 a  pleader       for  an	accused	 who has not  engaged  a  pleader  himself.       Section	 12  provides  for  a  special	rule  of   evidence       empowering  the	Special Judge to admit	certain	 statements       recorded	 by a magistrate, when the person who made them	 is       dead or cannot be found or is incapable of giving  evidence.       Section	13  provides for powers to deal	 with  a  situation       arising	out  of	 intransigent conduct  of  accused  persons       during the course of trial.  Section 14 takes away the power       of all courts to interfere with the proceedings or orders of       the Special Judge or to transfer any case pending before him       or  to make any order under s. 491 of the Code  of  Criminal       Procedure.   Section  15 prohibits the giving of	 copies	 of       records of any case before a Special Judge to any one except       to  an  accused or his pleader and makes it  punishable	for       such accused or pleader to show the copy to any other person       or  to divulge its contents to anybody except in the  course       of proceedings for the purpose of which it was obtained.	 It       further	provides  for the return of the copies	within	ten       days  after  the conclusion of the  proceedings	before	the       Special	Judge.	Section 16 provides for the application	 of       the Code of Criminal Procedure or any other law for the time       being in force to proceedings under the Ordinance in so	far       as they are not inconsistent with its       87       686       provisions.   Section  17 makes	disclosure  of	information       prohibited  under s. 15 punishable.  Section 18 gives  power       to  the	Government to make rules necessary  to	carry  into       effect the purposes of the Ordinance.  Section 19.     repeals       the Enemy Agents Ordinance, XlX of S.   2004,  but  provides       that  all rules made, orders issued, prosecution and  action       taken  and punishment awarded under the	repealed  Ordinance       shall be deemed to have been made, issued, taken and awarded       under the Ordinance.       It will be clear from this analysis of the provisions of the       Ordinance  that	the  procedure under the  Ordinance  is	 in       material	 respects different from the ordinary procedure	 of       Criminal	 Courts dealing with offences.	The  contention	 of       the  appellants is that this amounts to	discrimination	and       therefore  the Ordinance is void and unconstitutional as	 it       violates Art. 14 of the Constitution.       The  provisions of Art. 14 of the Constitution have come	 up       for  discussion before this Court in a number of cases.	 It       is  now well established that " while Art. 14 forbids  class       legislation,  it does not forbid	 reasonable  classification       for the purposes of legislation.	 In order, however, to pass       the  test of permissible classification two conditions  must       be  fulfilled,  namely (i) that the classification  must	 be       founded	on an intelligible differentia which  distinguishes       persons or things that are grouped together from others left       out  of	the group and, (ii) that differentia  must  have  a       rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the       statute	in question.  The classification may be founded	 on       different  bases,  namely,  geographical,  or  according	 to       objects	or occupations or the like.  What is  necessary	 is       that   there   must  be	a  nexus  between  the	 basis	 of       classification  and  the object of the Act  under  consider-       ation.  It is also well established by the decisions of this       Court  that  Art. 14 condemns discrimination not only  by  a       substantive  law but also by a law of procedure."  (see	Sri       Ram Krishna Dalmia v. Shri Justice S. R. Tendolkar (1)).	 We       have,   therefore,  to  see  whether  there  is	 reasonable       classification for the purposes of the       (1) [1959] S.C.R. 279.       687       Ordinance.   Now	 the Ordinance was passed in  January  1949       soon  after  the cease-fire.  But though the attack  by	the       outside raiders and enemies of the State had come to an	end       it  was	felt that conditions were such that  the  emergency       continued  and  it was necessary to provide  for	 trial	and       punishment  of enemy agents and persons	committing  certain       offences with intent to aid the enemy by a special procedure       which was enacted in the Ordinance.  With that end in  view,       an  "enemy"  was	 defined to mean and  include  "any  person       directly	 or indirectly, participating or assisting  in	the       campaign recently undertaken by raiders from outside in sub-       verting the Government established by law in the State." 'An       "  enemy	 agent	" was defined as meaning "  a  person,	not       operating as a member of enemy armed force, who is  employed       by,  or works for or acts on instructions received from	the       enemy."	It is clear, therefore, that " enemy " and "  enemy       agent  "	 are a clearly defined class of persons	 and  would       give rise to a reasonable classification for the purpose	 of       the  Ordinance.	 Section  3 provides for  punishment  of  a       person who is an enemy agent or who does certain things with       intent  to  aid	the enemy.  There can be no  doubt  in	the       circumstances  existing in the State then and now  that	the       classification	is   reasonable	 and  is  founded   on	 an       intelligible differentia which distinguished persons brought       under  the  Ordinance from others.  There is also  no  doubt       that  the differentia had a rational relation to the  object       sought to be achieved by the Ordinance.	There had  recently       been a campaign to subvert the government established by law       in  the	State and though the actual raids  were	 over,	the       danger of subversion of the government was not over and	the       threat  from those who intended to aid the enemy	 continued.       In  these  circumstances	 the  Ordinance	 was  enacted	and       provided	 a special procedure for the trial of enemy  agents       or  those  who  did certain things with intent  to  aid	the       enemy,  the  object  of such persons being  to  subvert	the       government  established bylaw in the State.  If it  is  said       that   the   Ordinance  does  not  purport   to	 make	any       classification of persons at all but only creates an offence       and       688       provides	 a stringent procedure -for the punishment of  that       offence, then there is no discrimination at all, for anybody       who  commits  that  offence  is	subjected  to  the  drastic       procedure.   It has also to be remembered that in  order	 to       repel   the   charge  of	 discrimination	  the	permissible       classification  need  not  be  of  persons  only.    Certain       offences	 may  be  so heinous or serious that  they  may	 in       certain	circumstances be treated as a class and tried in  a       different way.  The offence created by s. 3 of the Ordinance       is not found as such in the Penal Code but is a new  offence       of  an  aggravated  kind	 which	may  in	 the  circumstances       prevailing  in  the  State mentioned  above  be	treated	 as       different from the ordinary offences; and may well be  dealt       with by a drastic procedure without encountering the  charge       of  violation  of  the. equal protection	 clause.   We  are,       therefore,  of opinion that on the principles laid  down	 by       this  Court in the large number of cases summarised  in	the       Dalmia  case  (1),  the	Ordinance  cannot  be  said  to	 be       discriminatory  and, therefore, violative of Art. 14 of	the       Constitution.   The  contention	under  this  head  on	the       constitutionality   of  the  Ordinance  therefore  must	 be       rejected.       Re. (2).       The  Ordinance purports to have been promulgated under s.  5       of  the	Constitution-Act, which declared that  all  powers,       legislative,  executive	and judicial, in  relation  to	the       State  and  its	government, were  always  inherent  in	and       possessed  and retained by His Highness and nothing  in	the       Act  was to affect or deemed to have affected the right	and       prerogative  of	His  Highness  to  make	 laws,	and   issue       proclamations,  orders  and  ordinances	by  virtue  of	his       inherent	 authority.   It  is, however,	submitted  that	 on       account	of the accession of the State to India	on  October       26, 1947, certain matters were surrendered to the Government       of  India  and therefore His Highness had no power  left	 to       legislate  on matters so surrendered.  These matters are	 to       be found in the Schedule to the Instrument of Accession (2).       This Schedule consists of 20 items, grouped under       (1)  [19591 S.C.R. 279.       (2)  Appendix  VII of the White Paper on Indian	States,	 p.       165.       689       four   heads:  (A)  Defence,  (B)  External   Affairs,	(C)       Communications and (D) Ancillary.  We are not here concerned       with  heads  (B) and (C) and need only  consider	 the  items       under  (A) and (D).  There are four items under the  head  "       Defence ", namely-       1.The naval, military and air forces of the Dominion  and       any other armed force raised or maintained by the  Dominion,       any armed forces, including forces, raised or maintained	 by       an acceding State, which are attached to, or operating with,       any of the armed forces of the Dominion.       2.Naval, military and air force works, administration  of       cantonment areas.       3.   Arms, fire-arms, ammunition.       4.   Explosives.       And there are four items under the head " Ancillary namely-       1.Elections  to the Dominion Legislature, subject to  the       provisions of the Act and of any Order made thereunder.       2.  Offences  against  laws  with  respect  to  any  of	the       aforesaid matters.       3.Inquiries and statistics for the purposes of any of the       aforesaid matters.       4.Jurisdiction and powers of all courts with respect to       any of the aforesaid matters, but except with the consent of       the  Ruler  of the acceding State, not so as to	confer	any       jurisdiction  or	 powers upon any courts other  than  courts       ordinarily exercising jurisdiction in or in relation to that       State.       The  contention	on  behalf of the appellants  is  that	the       provisions  of the Ordinance were in particular	covered	 by       item  (1) under the head " Defence ". It is also urged  that       the  High  Court was not correct in holding that	 there	was       concurrent jurisdiction in the State as well as the  Central       Legislature  even with respect to items in the Schedule	and       that  on	 a  correct interpretation  of	the  Instrument	 of       Accession,  the	Central	 Legislature  alone  had  power	 to       legislate  with respect to the matters in the Schedule.	 We       do not think it necessary to decide in this case whether the       State had concurrent       690       powers  to legislate on matters covered by the Schedule	and       shall proceed on the assumption that the Central Legislature       alone  had  the power to legislate on  these  matters.	The       question	 then  which  immediately  arises  is  whether	the       Ordinance  is covered by item (1) under the head	 "  Defence       The other items either under  the head " Defence	 or   under       the head " Ancillary are immaterial for this purpose. If the       Ordinance is not covered by item	  (1)	under	the   head"       Defence	",  it would then be within the competence  of	the       State  Legislature or of His Highness to promulgate it,	for       all other matters besides those covered by the twenty  items       in  the Schedule in any case remained with the State.   Item       (1)  under  the	head  " Defence "  deals  with	the  naval,       military and air forces of the Dominion and any other  armed       forces raised or maintained by the Dominion and includes any       armed  forces  including those raised or maintained  by	any       acceding State, which are attached to, or operating with any       armed forces of the Dominion.  Howsoever wide an	 interpret-       ation  is given to this entry it will be seen that it  deals       only with the armed forces whether on land or sea or in	the       air and the raising or maintenance of such forces and  their       operations.   The Ordinance has, in our opinion, nothing	 to       do with the matters covered by this entry.  It is true  that       it  defines  "  enemy  " and " enemy  agent  "  and  creates       offences with reference to certain acts done with intent	 to       aid the enemy including giving of assistance to the military       or -air operations of the enemy or impeding the military	 or       air  operations of Indian forces or His Highness' forces	 or       the  forces of any Indian State.	 But it is only	 indirectly       concerned  with the operations of the armed forces  and	its       main purpose is to deal with persons who with intent to	aid       the  enemy commit certain acts including assistance  to	the       military or air operations of the enemy or impediment to the       military	 or  air  operations of the  Indian  armed  forces.       Besides	this reference to military or air  operations,	the       rest of the provisions of the Act has nothing to do with the       armed  forces and if one looks at the pith and substance	 of       the  Ordinance it will be found that it deals  with  persons       who are concerned with the       691       subversion of the government established by law by  becoming       enemy  agents or doing certain acts with intent to  aid	the       enemy.  In pith and substance therefore, the Ordinance deals       with  public order and criminal law and procedure; the  mere       fact that there is an indirect impact on armed forces in	 s.       3 of the Ordinance will not make it in pith and substance  a       law  covered  by item (1) under the head	 "Defence"  in	the       Schedule.   We  are therefore of opinion that  there  is	 no       force  in the contention that the Ordinance was	beyond	the       legislative  competence	of  His	 Highness  because  certain       matters	were  ceded in the Instrument  of  Accession  dated       October	26,  1947,  to	the  Government	 of  India.    This       contention must also fail.       Re. (3).       The  contention is that as s. 5 of the Constitution-Act	was       repealed on November 17, 1951, the Ordinance which is stated       to have been passed under that section also came to an  end.       It is enough to say that there is no force in this argument.       Clause (b) of s. 6 of the Jammu and Kashmir General  Clauses       Act,  (J.K.XX of S. 1977), clearly saves the Ordinance.	 It       is as follows:-       " Where this Act, or any Act made after the commencement	 of       this  Act, repeals any enactment hitherto made or  hereafter       to be made, then, unless a different intention appears,	the       repeal shall not ....       (b)  affect  the	 previous  operation of	 any  enactment	 so       repealed or anything duly done or suffered thereunder;"       It will be clear that the promulgation of the Ordinance	was       a  "thing duly done" under s. 5 of the Constitution Act	and       the repeal of s. 5 of the Constitution-Act would thus  leave       the  Ordinance  which was  promulgated  thereunder  entirely       unaffected.  The repeal of s. 5 can only mean the withdrawal       of  that legislative power on and from the date	of  repeal.       Anything	 done while the power subsisted cannot be  affected       by such repeal.	A law enacted under a Constitution-Act does       not  lose its vitality and would continue even though  there       may  be repeal of parts of the Constitution-Act under  which       it was enacted as long as the law       692       is not inconsistent with the Constitution-Act as it  emerges       after  the  amendment  and  repeal  of  certain	 provisions       thereof.	 It derives its binding force from the fact that it       was  within  the competence of the legislature when  it	was       passed  and being permanent would continue till	amended	 or       repealed	 under	the  amended  Constitution-Act.	  We   are,       therefore, of opinion that the Ordinance did not come to	 an       end  on	the  repeal of s. 5  of	 the  Constitution-Act	and       remained a valid piece of legislation in view of s. 6 (b) of       the Jammu and Kashmir General Clauses Act.       Re. (4).       It  is urged that the conditions in the State  have  changed       considerably since 1949 and therefore the Ordinance must	 be       held  to	 have lapsed.  It is enough to say  that  there	 is       nothing in this contention, even assuming that conditions in       the State are not now exactly the same as they were in 1949.       The  Ordinance was a permanent piece of legislation.  It	 is       true  that it came into existence because of  an	 emergency,       but  that was only the occasion for passing  the	 Ordinance.       The  Ordinance,	however, tries to reach an evil	 of  deeper       roots, an evil which cannot be said to have ceased to exist,       viz., subversion of the government established by law in the       State in conjunction with the enemies of the State.  Being a       permanent law, it can only be brought to an end by means	 of       repeal  by competent authority.	It is not the case  of	the       appellants  that	 the  Ordinance has been  repealed  by	any       competent  authority.   It must therefore be held to  be	 in       force  till  such  repeal even if  the  conditions  now	are       assumed	not  to	 be  exactly the same  as  in  1949.   This       contention therefore also fails.       Re. (5).       It is urged that the Ordinance was unconstitutional  because       it  is  inconsistent  with  Art.	 352  and  the	 subsequent       Articles.   We  must say that Art. 352  and  the	 subsequent       Articles	 in  Part  XVIII of the	 Constitution  relating	 to       Emergency Provisions have nothing whatsoever to do with	the       validity or otherwise of the Ordinance.	We have been unable       to understand how there can be any inconsistency between the       Ordinance693and   the  provisions  contained  in  Part  XVIII   of	 theConstitution.  This contention also fails.It now remains to notice three points that were urged duringthe course of arguments on behalf of the appellants, namely,(i)  s. 4 (1) of the Ordinance is hit by Art. 20 (1) of	 theConstitution,  (ii) s. 11 (1) is hit by Art. 22 (1)  of	 theConstitution,	and   (iii)  the  Special   Judge   has	  nojurisdiction   to  try	an  offence  under   the   ExplosiveSubstances  Act.  Apart from the fact that these points	 nothaving been raised by the appellants in their writ  petitionor  urged before the High Court, we should be  reluctant  topermit them to raise these points for the first time in thisCourt,	we may, in passing, point out that the offences	 forwhich  the appellants are being prosecuted are said to	havetaken place in June 1957 and that they have been allowed  toengage lawyers of their choice.	 They can therefore have  nogrievance  so far as the first two points are concerned	 andwe  leave  them	 to  be decided in a  case  where  there  isgrievance.  There is no substance in the third point.There is no force therefore in this appeal and it is  herebydismissed.Appeal dismissed.