PETITIONER:RAJA RAJINDER CHAND	Vs.RESPONDENT:SUKHI(and connected appeals)DATE OF JUDGMENT:23/10/1956BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  286		  1956 SCR  889ACT:Right to Royal trees-Conquest of territory-Grant of Jagir byconqueror-Title	  to  trees  within  Jagir-Rights   of	 theJagirdar-Grant-Construction-Entries  in	  Wajib-ul-arz-Scopeand  legal  7 effect-Ala malik and Adna malik,	Meaning	 of-Punjab Land-Revenue Act, 1887 (Punjab XVII of 1887), ss. 31,44.HEADNOTE:The  appellant	as the proprietor of Nada-un Jagir  sued  toestablish  his title to chil (pine) trees standing on  landswithin	the Jagir but belonging to the respondents,  on	 theground that the trees belonged to him as ala malik (superiorlandlords  and	not to the respondents who  were  only	adnamaliks	(inferior landlords).  The Jagir  originally  formedpart of the territory belonging to the rulers of Kangra	 whowere  Sovereigns  entitled to the chil trees.  In  1827.  28Maharaja  Ranjit Singh conquered the territory	and  grantedNadaun	 as  Jagir  to	Raja  Jodhbir  Chand  who  was	 theillegitimate son of Raja Sansar Chand, the last	 independentruler of Kangra.  In 1846 as a result of the first Sikh	 Warthe  territory came under the dominion of the British,.	 whogranted	 a  Sanad  in  favour  of  Raja	 Jodhbir  Chand	  inrecognition of his services.  After the second Sikh War, theBritish	 granted  a fresh Sanad in respect of the  Jagir  ofNadaun	in  1848.   Subsequent	to  the	 grant,	 there	weresettlements  in	 1892-93 (O'Brien's  Settlement),  1899-1900(Anderson's Settlement) and 1910-1915 (Settlement of  MessrsMiddleton and Shuttleworth), and there were some entries  inthe  Wajib-ul-arz  supporting the title of the Raja  to	 thechil trees.  The appellant who is a direct lineal descendantof  Raja Jodhbir Chand claimed title to the trees,  firstly,as  the	 representative of the	independent  Kangra  rulers,secondly,  on  the basis of the grant given by	the  BritishGovernment  and, thirdly,on the strength of the	 entries  inthe Wajib-ul-arz.Held:(1)  The  Sovereign  right of  the	 independent  Kangrarulers	Lo chil trees passed by conquest to the Sikh  rulersand subsequently to the British; Raja Jodhbir Chand was onlya  Jagirdar  under  the	 Sikhs	and  the  British,  and	 theappellant could not therefore lay claim to the chil trees onthe  basis  of	the Sovereign right  of	 the  in.  dependentrulers.(2)The grant of 1848 on its true construction was  primarilyan  assignment	of land revenue and  whatever  other  rightsmight have been included, the right to all chil trees on theproprietary and cultivated lands of the respondents was	 notwithin the grant.890It is well settled that the general rule is that grants madeby the Sovereign are to be construed most favourably for theSovereign;  but	 if  the intention is obvious,	a  fair	 andliberal interpretation must be given to the grant to  enableit  to	take  effect, and the  operative  part,	 if  plainlyexpressed,  must take effect notwithstanding  qualificationsin  the recitals.  In cases where the grant is for  valuableconsideration it is construed in favour of the grantee,	 forthe honour of the Sovereign, and where two constructions arepossible, one valid and the other void, that which is  validought  to  be preferred, for, the honour  of  the  Sovereignought to be more regarded than the Sovereign's profit.(3)Wajib-ul-arz or village administration paper is a  recordof existing rights not expressly provided for by law and  ofcustoms	 and usage regarding the rights and  liabilities  inthe  estate,  and  though under s. 44 of  the  Punjab  Land-Revenue	 Act, 1887, it is presumed to be true, it is not  tobe  used  for the creation of new  rights  and	liabilities.Entries in the wajib-ul-arz with regard to the right of	 theRaja in respect of chil trees standing on the cultivated andproprietary  lands  of	the adna-maliks, did  not  show	 anyexisting custom or usage, of the village, the right being  aSovereign  right,  and the appellant could not rely  on	 thesaid  entries  as  evidence  of	 a  grant  or  surrender  orrelinquishment	of  a Sovereign right by Government  in	 hisfavour.The  expressions "ala malik" and "adna malik"  explained  inthe  context  of the Settlement reports relating  to  NadaunJagir.Venkata Narasimha Appa Bow Bahadur v. Rajah Narayya Appa BowBahadur ([1879] L.R. 7 I.A. 38), Dakas Khan v. Ghulam  KasimKhan  (A.I.R.  1918  P.C. 4) and  Gurbakhsh  Singh  v.	Mst.Partapo ([1921] I.L.R. 2 Lah. 346), referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 196 to	 201of 1953.Appeals	 from  the judgment and decrees of the	Punjab	HighCourt dated December 30, 1949, in Civil Regular Appeals Nos.1567, 1568, 1569, 1570, 1573 an& 1574 of 1942 arising out ofthe  decrees  dated  July  31, 1942, of	 the  Court  of	 theDistrict  Judge, Hoshiarpur in Appeals Nos. 104/35 of  1941-42,101/32 of 1941, 103/34 -of 1941/42) 15/73 of 1941, 102/33of 1941/42 and 120 of 1941 arising 'out of the decrees datedJuly 24, 1941, of the Court of Subordinate Judge, 4th Class,Kangra	in  Suits Nos. 544, 548, 545, 547, 546	and  549  of1940.Bang Beharilal and K. R. Chaudhury, for the appellant.891Ganpat Rai, for the respondent.S.M.  Sikri, Advocate-General for Punjab, Jindra Lal and  R.H. Dhebar, for the Intervener (State of Punjab).1956.  October 23.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyS.   K.	 DAS J.-These are six appeals by the plaintiff	RajaRajinder  Chand, the superior landlord (alamalik) of  NadaunJagir  in the district of Kangra.  He brought six  suits  inthe  Court  of	the  Subordinate  Judge	 of  Kangra  for   adeclaration  that he was the owner of all  pine	 (chil-pinuslongifolia)  trees standing on the lands of  the  defendantswithin	the  said  Jagir  and  for  a  permanent  injunctionrestraining  the latter from interfering with his rights  ofownership  and extraction of resin from the said trees.	  Healso  claimed specified sums as damages for the loss  causedto  him	 from  the  tapping  of	 pine  trees  by   differentdefendants  from  March 24, 1940, up to the  date  when	 thesuits were brought.  The defendants, who are the  adnamaliks(inferior  landlords), pleaded that they were the owners  inpossession  of the lands on which the trees stood, that	 thetrees  were  their property, and that the plaintiff  had  noright  to the trees nor had he ever exercised any  right  ofpossession over them.Three  questions arose for decision on the pleadings of	 theparties.   The	first question was-whether  all	 pine  treesstanding  on  the  lands in suit were the  property  of	 theplaintiff, i.e., the present appellant.	 The second questionwas one of limitation, and the third question related to thequantum of damages claimed by the appellant.The  learned Subordinate Judge, who dealt with the suits  inthe  first  instance, held that the  present  appellant	 hadfailed to prove his ownership of the trees.  He further heldthat  the  suits were barred by time.  On  the	question  ofdamages, he held that if the appellant's claim to  ownershipof  the	 trees were established, some of the  defendants  infour  of  the  suits would be liable for  small	 amounts  ofdamages.  In view, how-892ever,  of  his findings on the questions  of  ownership	 andlimitation,  lie dismissed the suits.  Raja  Rajinder  Chandthen preferred appeals from the judgment and decrees of	 thelearned Subordinate Judge, and the appeals were heard by thelearned	 District Judge of Hoshiarpur.	The latter  reversedthe  finding  of  the  ,learned	 Subordinate  Judge  on	 thequestion  of ownership and held that the  present  appellanthad established his right to the trees in question.  He alsoreversed the finding of the learned Subordinate Judge on thequestion  of  limitation,  but accepted his  finding  as  todamages.  Accordingly, he allowed the appeals, set aside thejudgment  and decrees of the learned Subordinate Judge,	 andgave  the appellant the declaration and order of  injunctionhe  had asked for, as also damages in four of the  suits  asassessed  by the learned Subordinate Judge.  The  defendantsthen preferred second appeals to the Punjab High Court.	  Onthe  main question as to whether the present  appellant	 hadbeen  able to establish his right to the trees, the  learnedJudges of the High Court differed from the learned  DistrictJudge and, agreeing with the learned Subordinate Judge, heldthat  the present appellant bad not been able  to  establishhis  right  to the trees.  On the  question  of	 limitation,however,  they agreed with the learned District	 Judge.	  Inview  of  their	 finding that the appellant  bad  failed  toestablish  his right to the trees, the appeals were  allowedand the suits brought by the appellant were dismissed.	 TheHigh  Court gave a certificate that the cases fulfilled	 therequirements of sections 109(c) and 110 of the Code of CivilProcedure.   These  six appeals have come to this  Court  onthat certificate.  We have heard these appeals together,  asthe  questions	which  arise  are  the	same.	The  presentjudgment will govern all the six appeals.The  short  but	 important question which  arises  in  theseappeals	 is whether the present appellant has been  able  toestablish his right to all pine (chil) trees standing on thesuit  lands  of	 the defendants.  The question	is  of	someimportance, as it affects the rights of ala and adna  maliksin Nadaun Jagir.  The res-893pondents have not contested before us the correctness of thefinding	 of two of the Courts below that the suits were	 notbarred by time; therefore, the question of limitation is  nolonger	a live question and need not be further referred  toin this judgment.Though	the main question which arises in these six  appealsis  a short one, a satisfactory answer thereto	requires  anexamination of the history of the creation of Nadaun  Jagir,of  the land revenue and revisional settlements made of	 thesaid  Jagir  from time to time, and of the  various  entriesmade in the record-of-rights prepared in the course of thosesettlements.   Before  we  advert to  that  history,  it  isnecessary  to indicate here the nature of the claim made  bythe  present appellant.	 The plaints of the six	 suits	werevery  brief and did not give sufficient particulars  of	 theclaim made by the appellant.  We may take the plaint in SuitNo.  544  of  1940 by way of an example; in para  1  it	 wasstated	that the land in question in that suit was in  tappaBadhog and the appellant was the superior landlord  thereof;then came para 2 which. said-"The  land is situate in Nadaun Jagir.	All the	 pine  treesstanding on the aforesaid land belong to the plaintiff.	  Healone  enjoys benefit of those trees.  This has always	beenthe practice throughout".In a later statement of replication. dated October 26, 1940,the  plaintiff-appellant gave some more particulars  of	 hisclaim.	 The learned Subordinate Judge, who tried the  suitsin  the first instance, observed that the present  appellantbased  his  claim to ownership of the trees  on	 three	maingrounds: first, on the ground that the land itself on  whichthe  trees stood belonged formerly to the ancestors  of	 thepresent appellant (namely, the independent rulers of Kangra)and  they gave the land to the ancestors of the adna  maliksbut  retained  their right of ownership in all	pine  trees;secondly,  after the conquest of Kangra by the British,	 therights	of  ownership  in the pine  trees  belonged  to	 theBritish	 Government  and the rights were  assigned  to	RajaJodhbir	 Chand,	 the  first grantee  of	 Nadaun	 Jagir;	 andthirdly, the right of the appellant in the894trees  had  been  "vouchsafed" by the entries  made  in	 theWajib-ul-arz  and recognised in several judicial  decisions.The  Courts below considered the claim of the  appellant  onthe  aforesaid	three grounds, and we  propose	to  considerthese grounds in the order in which we have stated them.It is now necessary to advert to the history of the creationof Nadaun Jagir so far as it is relevant for considering theclaim	of   the  appellant  on	 the  first   two   grounds.Admittedly,  the suit lands lie in Badhog and  Jasai  tappascomprised  within  the Jagir of Nadaun in  the	district  ofKangra.	  The  last  independent ruler of  Kangra  was	RajaSansar	Chand who died in the year 1824.  Raja Sansar  Chandwas a Katoch Rajput and had children from two women; one  ofthem,  who was a Katoch lady, was his properly married	wifeand  Raja Sansar Chand bad a son by her, named Raja  AnirudhChand.	 The other woman was of the Gaddi tribe and  by	 herRaja Sansar Chand had a son, named Raja Jodhbir Chand.	 Thegreat  antiquity of the Katoch royal line is undoubted,	 andthe  history  of the Kangra State from	the  earliest  timesright up to its conquest by the Sikhs under Maharaja  RanjitSingh  has  been  traced in the	 Kangra	 District  Gazetteer(1924-25)  at pp. 52 to 76.  We are not concerned with	thathistory	 prior	to  the	 time of  Raja	Sansar	Chand.	 TheGazetteer  states (p. 75) that Raja Sansar Chand was for  20years the "lord paramount of the hills and even a formidablerival to Ranjit Singh himself; but his aggressive nature ledhim  on in his bold designs and be fell at last a victim  tohis  own violence".  With him the glory of the	Katoch	linepassed	away and what remained to his son Anirudh Chand	 waslittle more than a name.  Anirudh Chand was summoned severaltimes  to  the Sikh camp and on the third  occasion  of	 hisvisit to that- camp, be was met by a very unacceptable	deinand   Raja  Sansar Chand had left two  daughters,  and	RajaDhian  Singh  of  Jamun, one of the  principal	officers  ofMaharaja  Ranjit  Singh, asked one of the  daughters  to  begiven in marriage to his son, Hira Singh.  Anirudh Chand wasafraid to refuse, though895in  reality  he regarded the alliance as an  insult  to	 hisfamily honour; because by immemorial custom a Katoch  Raja'sdaughter  may  not  marry any one of  lower  rank  than	 herfather, i.e., a Raja or an heirapparent.  Anirudh Chand	 wasa Raja in his own right and the descendant of a long line ofkings,	while Dhian Singh was a Raja only by favour  of	 hismaster.	  Anirudh Chand prevaricated for some time;  but  hewas   determined   to  sacrifice  everything   rather	thancompromise the honour of his ancient line.  He secretly sentaway  his  family  and property across	the  Sutlej  and  onhearing	 that Maharaja Ranjit Singh had started from  Lahorefor Nadaun, he fled into British territory.  Maharaja RanjitSingh came to Nadaun, and Jodhbir Chand gave his two sistersto  the	 Maharaja.  Jodhbir Chand was then created  a  Raja,with Nadaun and the surrounding country as his Jagir.	MianFateh  Chand, younger brother of Raja Sansar Chand,  offeredhis granddaughter to Raja Hira Singh.  He was also  rewardedwith  the  gift of a Jagir known as the	 Rajgiri  Jagir	 andreceived the rest of the State on lease on favourable terms.His son, however, failed to pay the amount agreed upon.	 TheState  was  then annexed to the Sikh kingdom, and  only	 theRajgiri	 Jagir was reserved for the royal family.   Thus  by1827-28 Kangra had ceased to be an independent	principalityand  was  to all intents and purposes annexed  to  the	Sikhkingdom, the son of Mian Fateh Chand and Raja Jodhbir  Chandoccupying merely the position of Jagirdars tinder the Sikhs,The  present  appellant, Raja Rajinder Chand,  is  a  directlineal descendant of Raja Jodhbir Chand, being fourth in theline of descent.Then followed the Sikh wars and the establishment of Britishrule in Kangra.	 The first Sikh war ended in March 1846,  inthe  occupation	 of Lahore and the cession  to	the  BritishGovernment of the Jullunder Doaba and the hills between	 theSutlej and the Ravi.  In 1848, the second Sikh war began andRaja  Parmudh Chand, one of the sons of Raja Anirudh  Chand,raised	the standard of rebellion in Kangra.  The  rebellionhowever failed.	 Meanwhile, Jodhbir Chand896remained  conspicuous  for  his	 fidelity  to  the   BritishGovernment;  both  in  the  Sikh  war  and  in	the   Katochinsurrection  he  did  good  service  to  the  British.	  Heobtained  a  Sanad from the British Government in  1846..  Acopy of that Sanad was not available, but a copy of a  Sanadgranted on October 11, 1848, which renewed and clarified theearlier	 Sanad, was produced and exhibited on behalf of	 thepresent appellant.  We shall have occasion to refer to	thisSanad in detail at a later stage.Having	thus  indicated in brief the  earlier  history	withregard	to  the creation of Nadaun Jagir in favour  of	RajaJodhbir	 Chand,	 we now proceed to consider  the  first	 twogrounds	 of the claim of the appellant.	 The learned  Judgesof  the	 High  Court held, in  agreement  with	the  learnedSubordinate  Judge,  that the present  appellant  could	 notclaim  the sovereign rights of Raja Sansar Chand who was  anindependent ruler of Kangra. For this finding they gave	 tworeasons; firstly, Raja Jodhbir Chand was an illegitimate sonof Raja Sansar Chand and could not succeed to the rights  ofthe Raja; secondly, whatever rights Raja Sansar Chand had asan independent ruler of Kangra came to an end (so far as hisdescendants  were  concerned)  with the	 annexation  of	 histerritory by the Sikhs, and Raja Jodhbir Chand merely got anassignment of land revenue to the tune of Rs. 30,000 by	 thegrant. of Nadaun Jagir by Maharaja Ranjit Singh.  We  acceptthese  as good and convincing reasons  for  discountenancingthe claim of the appellant that the sovereign rights of	 theindependent  rulers of Kangra in respect of all royal  trees(including pine trees) within Nadaun Jagir had come down  tohim.   For  the purposes of these cases we  may	 accept	 theposition,  in  support	of which there	is  some  historicalmaterial,  that Raja Sansar Chand had a right to  all  royaltrees  including pine trees within his territory; but it  isclear to us that neither Raja Jodhbir Chand nor the  presentappellant succeeded to the rights of the independent  rulersof  Kangra.  Raja Jodhbir Chand was a grantee under a  grantfirst made by Maharaja Ranjit Singh and then by the  BritishGov-897ernment.   The precise terms of the grant made	by  MaharajaRanjit Singh are not known.  The terms of the grant made  bythe Governor-General on October 11, 1848, are to be found inthe  Sanad  of that date.  Therefore,, the position  of	 theappellant  cannot  be any higher in law than  that  of	RajaJodhbir	 Chand	and the claim of the appellant that  he	 badsucceeded, to the rights of the independent rulers of Kangrais  clearly  unfounded.	  Dealing  with	 this  part  of	 theappellant's claim, the learned District Judge, who found  infavour	of  the appellant, relied  on  certain	observationsquoted	at  p.	365,  and again at p.  378,  of	 the  KangraDistrict Gazetteer (1924-25), observations on which  learnedcounsel for the appellant has also relied.  The observationsare  taken  from Mr. Lyall's Settlement Report.	  Mr.  Lyallsaid:"Under the Rajas (meaning the old Katoch rulers) the  theoryof  property in land was that each Raja was the landlord  ofthe  whole  of his raj or principality, not  merely  in	 thedegree	in  which everywhere in India the State is,  in	 onesense,	 the  landlord,	 but  in  a  clearer  and   strongerdegree............ ..........................................................Each   principality  was  a  single  estate,   divided	 formanagement into a certain number of circuits. .......................................................... The waste lands, great or small, were the Raja's waste, thearable	lands were made up of the separate holdings  of	 histenants.   The	rent due from the holder of each  field	 waspayable direct to the Raja, unless he remitted it as an	 actof favour to the holder, or assigned it in Jagir to a  thirdparty in lieu of pay, or as a subsistence allowance....... ...........................................................Every  several	interest  in land,  whether  'the  right  tocultivate certain fields, to graze exclusively certain plotsof  waste,  work a water-mill, set a net to  catch  game  orhawks  on  a mountain, or put a fish-weir in a	stream,	 washeld  direct of the Raja as a separate holding	or  tenancy.The incumbent or tenant at the117898most  called  his interest a 'warisi '	or  inheritance	 not'maliki' or lordship".Mr. Lyall further observed that "all rights were supposed tocome  from  the Raja; several rights, such  as	holdings  ofland,  etc.,  from  his grant; others,	such  as  rights  ofcommon, from his sufferance".  At p. 377 of the Gazetteer  asummary is given of the conditions of land tenure under	 therule of the Katoch Rajas.  It is stated that there were	 tworights	in  the soil recognised under  the  Raja's  rule-theparamount right of property which was vested in the Raja andthe  right  of cultivation derived by grant from  the  Raja,which  was  vested  in the  cultivators.   The	first  rightextended  to  the  whole of  the  principality;	 the  secondprimarily extended only to the plot specified in the  grant,but  carried  with it further rights of common	in  adjacentwaste.	It is then observed that this system of land  tenurecame  down practically unchanged until the  introduction  ofBritish	 rule,	and  though  the  period  of  Sikh  dominionintervened,  the  Sikhs did not appear to have	altered	 thesystem.	 The learned District Judge relied on the  aforesaidobservations  for  his finding that the	 appellant  had	 theownership  of all royal trees in accordance with the  systemof  land tenure which prevailed during the time of  the	 oldRajas.	In our view, the learned District Judge was in errorwith regard to this part of the claim of the appellant.	 Mr.Lyall  began his settlement work in 1865 and his report	 wasdated  July 30, 1872.  He continued and revised the  earliersettlement  work of Mr. Barnes.	 It is worthy of  note	thatneither	 Mr.  Barnes  nor Mr.  Lyall  undertook	 any  actualsettlement  operations in Nadaun, though Mr. Lyall  gatheredvery  valuable historical data regarding the  conditions  ofland tenure which prevailed in the district of Kangra  underthe  old  Katoch  Rajas.  It is one thing to  say  that	 thesystem of land tenure prevailing under the old Katoch rulerscontinued in spite of the Sikh interregnums, but it is quitea  different  thing  to say that  Raja	Jodhbir	 Chand,	 thegrantee	 of  a	Jagir, succeeded to the rights	of  the	 in-dependent Katoch rulers.  The rights of the last independentKatoch ruler, under the system of land899tenure	which  prevailed at the time, passed  first  to	 theSikhs  who  became  the rulers of Kangra  and  then  to	 theBritish	 after	the Sikh wars.	The learned  District  Judgefailed	to appreciate the distinction between the  sovereignrights	of an independent ruler and the rights of a  granteeunder a grant made by the sovereign ruler.  It is  pertinentto quote here the following observations of Lord Dunedin  inVajesingji Joravarsingji v. Secretary of State for India(1):"When  a territory is acquired by a sovereign State for	 thefirst time that is an act of State.  It matters not how	 theacquisition has been brought about.  It may be by  conquest,it  may	 be  by cession following on treaty, it	 may  be  byoccupation of territory hitherto unoccupied by a  recognisedruler.	In all cases the result is the same.  Any inhabitantof  the	 territory  can make good in  the  municipal  courtsestablished  by the new sovereign only such rights  as	thatsovereign  has,	 through  his  officers,  recognised.	Suchrights	as he had under the rule of predecessors  avail	 himnothing".Mr.  Douie in his Punjab Settlement Manual (1899)  said	 (P.69):"The  Sikhs  drove the hill Rajas of Kangra  into  exile  ordegraded   them	 into  mere  Jagirdars,	 and   the   BritishGovernment  when  it took over the country did	not  restorethem to their old position".The  question  as to whether the sovereign  ruler  having  aright in all royal trees made a grant of that right to	RajaJodhbir	 Chand or surrendered that right in favour  of	RajaJodhbir	 Chand	or any of his  successors-in-interest  is  adifferent  question  which will depend on the terms  of	 thegrant  or on other evidence showing that the right had	beensurrendered in favour of the appellant or his  predecessors-in-interest.   That is a question which we  shall  presentlydiscuss.   The learned District Judge was however  wrong  inthinking that, according to the system of land tenure  whichprevailed  under  the old Rajas or, under  the	Sikhs,	RajaJodhbir Chand got any right to all pine trees within  NadaunJagir.(1)  [1924] L.R. 51.  I.A. 357, 360.900That  brings us to the second ground and to a  considerationof the terms of the Sanad dated October 11,  1848, on  whichalso the appellant based his claim. The Sanad  was in  theseterms:"Fresh	Sanad re: Settlement upon Raja Jodhbir Chand  Katochof  the	 villages  named hereinafter,  situate	in  TaalluqaNadaun, possessed by him.Whereas	 the  mountainous country together  with  the  Doabatract  had come under the occupation of the British  Companyin  pursuance  of the treaty which took	 place	between	 theBritish	 Government  and the Sirkar of Lahore  on  March  9,1846:  The Jagir of Choru, Bara, etc., situate in the  Ilaqaof  Nadaun the name of each Tappa whereof together with	 thenumber	of its villages and its Jama is given  herein  belowand  the  total Jama whereof was Rs. 26,270/10/3  per  annumapproximately,	i.e., as much of the Ilaqa of Nadaun as	 wasin  the	 possession  of the said Raja at  the  time  of	 thecommencement  of tumult of battle whether less or more	thanthe present one, has been granted in perpetuity,  generationafter  generation,  to	Raja  Jodhbir  Chand  and  his	malelegitimate, descendants who are not from the womb of a slavegirl under the orders of the Most Generous Gracious, Exaltedand  Excellent	Nawab Sir Henry	 Hardinge  G.C.B.  Governor-General,  ruler of the territory of India,  communicated  inwriting	 in  English bearing the signature of  Mr.  'Edward,Deputy	Chief Secretary to His Excellency, in reply  to	 theCommissioner's report No. 147, dated July 24, 1847, and alsoas contemplated in the previous order of the Nawab Governor-General,  dated	 August 7, 1846, subject  to  the  followingconditions:-1.   In no way shall criminal jurisdiction in respect of thesaid   Ilaqa   vest   in  the  Raja   Sahib.	The   entireadministration and power of hearing every sort of  complaintbetween the Riaya (subjects) and the said Raja shall  remainin the hands of the British Government's officers.2.   The  Raja Sahib shall not be at liberty to	 receive  onany pretext Mahsul for any commodity from any I Mahajan	 andtrader or from the Riaya901(subjects) by way of Zakat (octroi), or anything on  accountof  excise and intoxicants.  He shall receive  only  revenuefrom the Riaya living in the villages of his Jagir accordingto  the British Government's rules of practice.	 In case  ofcontravention  of the said rules of practice cash  shall  befixed  by  the	Government for the said Raja  Sahib  or	 hisdescendants.3.   After the death of the said Raja Sahib this Jagir shallbe  divided  among his real sons according to  the  practicefollowed by Hindus.  It shall not devolve on his descendantsfrom a slave girl.4.   It	 shall be essential for the Raja Sahib to  constructat his own expense public roads, eleven cubits in width,  inhis Ilaqa.5.   It	 is proper for the Raja Sahib to be always ready  toserve  the Government wholeheartedly and to bear good  moralcharacter.Hence it is obligatory on the said Raja Sahib not to set hisfoot  on  the borders of others beyond his own.	  He  shouldtreat this Sanad as a Sanad absolute.Previously on September 22, 1846, a Sanad was issued' by theExalted Henry Montgomery Colonel Lawrence from Simla withoutthorough enquiry and without the name of each village  beingentered	 therein. In that Sanad the entire Jama is shown  tobe Rs. 32,000 approximately.  According to the statements ofofficials  of the Raja Sahib the said Jama includes  amountson account of excise, Bhum Chari (cattle grazing) etc.	Thatwas found to be wrong.	Now the present Sanad with the	nameof  each Tappa and the number of villages and  Jama  thereofbeing  entered in it is issued by this Court subject to	 theabove mentioned conditions after an enquiry having been madeand  a report having been submitted to the  Nawab  Governor-General".Appended  to  the Sanad was a list of  tappas  and  villagescomprised  within  the	Jagir  of  Nadaun.   The  list	alsomentioned  in the third column the amount of Jama  for	eachtappa.The question now is whether the aforesaid Sanad was a  grantprimarily of land revenue; or it made a grant of other royalrights including the right to all902pine trees which is the particular right under considerationin the six suits brought by the appellant.  It is, we think,well  settled  that the ordinary rule applicable  to  grantsmade  by  a  subject does not apply to grants  made  by	 thesovereign authority; and grants made by the Sovereign are tobe  construed  most  favourably	 for  the  Sovereign.	Thisgeneral	 rule, however, is capable of important	 relaxationsin favour of the subject.  It is necessary to refer here  tosuch only of those relaxations as have a bearing on the con-struction of the document before us; thus, if the  intentionis obvious, a fair and liberal interpretation must be  givento the grant to enable it to take effect; and the  operativepart, if plainly expressed, may take effect  notwithstandingqualifications in the recitals.	 In cases where the grant isfor valuable consideration, it is construed in favour of thegrantee,  for  the honour of the Sovereign;  and  where	 twoconstructions  are  possible, one valid and the	 other	voidthat which is valid ought to be preferred, for the honour ofthe Sovereign ought to be more regarded than the Sovereign'sprofit	(see  para  670	 at p. 315  of	Halsbury's  Laws  ofEngland, Vol.  VII, s. 12, Simonds Ed.).It is worthy of note that so far as the lands in  possessionof  tenants  or subjects were concerned, the Sanad  did	 notgrant  any  right other than the right to  receive  revenue;condition  No., 2 of the Sanad made it quite clear that	 thegrantee would receive only revenue from the subjects  livingin  the	 villages  of his Jagir	 according  to	the  BritishGovernment's rules of practice, and that the grantee was notat  liberty  to	 receive on any	 pretext  "mahsul"  for	 anycommodity  from	 any Mahajan or trader or any  octroi,	etc.from  any of the subjects.  If the 'intention was  to  grantthe  right  to	pine  tree standing  on	 the  lands  of	 thesubjects,  one would expect it to be mentioned in  conditionNo.  2.	 The  mention  of the Jama  in	the  Sanad  is	alsosignificant.  In the earlier Sanad the entire Jama was shownto be Rs. 32,000, because according to the statements of theofficials of the Raja Sahib, the said Jama included  amountsreceived on account of cattle grazing, etc.; that was  foundto be wrong and903the correct Jama was found to be Rs. 26,270-10-3.  The Sanadconcluded with these words:"Now  the present Sanad with the name of each tappa and	 thenumber	of villages and Jama thereof being entered in it  isissued subject to the above mentioned. conditions, etc."In the recital portion of the Sanad also it was stated	thatthe  Jagir  of certain tappas, together with the  number  ofvillages comprised within the tappas and the Jama  mentionedin  the	 list,	the total Jama being  Rs.  26,270-10-3,	 wasgranted to Raja Jodhbir Chand.	The other-conditions subjectto which the grant was made showed that no sovereign  rightswere  granted to the Jagirdar.	In para 69 at p. 96  of	 hisreport MrLyall gave a list of the principal Jagirs of Kangraand  stated  that Raja Jodhbir Chand had a Jama	 or  revenuedemand of Rs. 36,079 in perpetuity; he said"Out of the totaljama, Rs. 6,079 are the assessment of assigned Khalsa  landswhich the Raja pays to Government as nazarana; Rs. 33,000 isthe value of the grant, but the Raja puts his collection  atRs. 30,000 only, exclusive of Khalsa tikas".  The 'aforesaidremarks,  made not very long after the grant,  also  supportthe view that the grant was primarily an assignment of	landrevenue and whatever other rights might have been  included,the  right  to	all pine trees on cultivated  lands  of	 thesubjects was not within the grant.  We agree therefore	withthe High Court that on a true and proper construction of theSanad, it is impossible to spell out of its terms a grant infavour of Raja Jodhbir Chand of the right to all pine  treeson cultivated and proprietary lands.We  proceed now to examine the third ground of the claim  ofthe  appellant, viz., that part of his claim which is  basedon  the entries in the Wajib-ul-arz of 1892-93	(Ex.   P-5),1899-1900  (Ex.	  P-6) and 1910-1915 (Ex.   P-4)  and  otherconnected  documents.	This  part  of	the  claim  of	 theappellant  has been the most controversial and difficult  todetermine.  The learned Subordinate Judge expressed the viewthat  the  aforesaid  entries did not  help  the  appellant,because they related to pine trees standing either on904uncultivated  waste  lands or  nautor  (recently  reclaimed)lands  and not to such trees on proprietary  and  cultivatedlands.	 The learned District Judge held on appeal  that  inthe Wajib-ul-arz of 1892-93 (Ex.  P-5) all pine (chil) treeswere  held to be the property of Government; this led  to  adispute	 between  the  Raja  and  Government,  and  in	 theWajib-ul-arz   of  1899-1900  (Ex.   P-6)   and	  subsequentdocuments,  an entry was made in favour of the Raja  showingthat Government had relinquished or surrendered their  rightto the Raja.  He did not agree with the learned	 SubordinateJudge  that  the entries related to pine trees	standing  onwaste  or  reclaimed  lands only.   The	 learned  Judge	 whodelivered  the leading judgment of the High Court  gave	 andconsidered  a long string Of quotations from many  documentsand  then came to the conclusion that the authority  of	 theWajib-ul-arz  entries  was open to doubt and  the  Raja	 hadfailed	to  make out his claim; the learned  Judge  did	 notclearly find however if the entries related to waste and re-claimed lands only.Learned	  counsel  for	the  appellant	has  very   stronglysubmitted  before its that the view of the learned  DistrictJudge was correct and should have been accepted by the	HighCourt;	learned counsel for the respondents has	 argued,  onthe contrary, that the trial Judge and the learned Judges ofthe  High  Court came to a definite finding,  which  he	 hascharacterised  as  a finding of fact, with  regard.  to	 theWajib-ul-arz  entries  and this Court should not  go  behindthat  finding.	 We do not think that these appeals  can  bedisposed  of  on the short ground that this Court  does	 notnormally go behind a concurrent finding of fact.  Indeed, inrespect of the Wajib-ul-arze entries, there is no concurrentfinding	 in  these cases; the trial Judge thought  that	 theentries	 related  to  waste and	 recently  reclaimed  lands,whereas	 the  High Court doubted the very authority  of	 theentries.  Moreover, the question whether from the  Wajib-ul-arz entries an inference of surrender or relinquishment of asovereign right by Government can be properly drawn is not apure question of fact, depending as it does on the905true scope and legal effect of those entries.  We cannot, byresorting  to a short cut as it were, relieve  ourselves  ofthe   task  of	examining  the	Wajib-ul-arz   entries	 andconsidering their true scope and legal effect.We have already referred to Mr. Barnes' Settlement (1850-52)and  pointed  out  that	 he did	 not  undertake	 any  actualsettlement operations in Nadaun.  The next person who  dealtwith the settlement of Kangra was Mr. Lyall, afterwards	 SirJames Lyall, Lt.  Governor of the Punjab.  He began his workin  1865  and  wrote his report in 1872.  He  also  did	 notundertake any settlement of Nadaun.  Alex.  Anderson was thenext  person  who dealt with the settlement of	Kangra.	  ByNotification  No.  25 dated January 26 1888  a	general	 re-assessment  of	the  land revenue  of  Kangra  district	 wasordered	 and  by  Notification No. 26 of  the  same  date  apreparation of the record-of-rights in the Jagirs of  Guler,Siba  and Nadaun was undertaken.  Mr. O'Brien undertook	 thesettlement, but died on November 28, 1893 and it was left toMr.  Anderson  to write the report.  It may be	stated	herethat  Mr.  Anderson wrote two reports: one  was	 the  ForestSettlement  Report  of 1887 and the other  was	the  RevisedSettlement Report of Kangra of 1897.  On April 27, 1910	 twoother notifications were published, directing a revision  ofthe  existing record-of-rights in Dera and Hamirpur  Tehsils(Nadaun being within Hamirpur Tehsil).	As a result,  MessrsMiddleton   and	  Shuttleworth	 undertook   a	  revisionalsettlement, which was the Settlement of 1910-15.  We have inthese  cases  to  deal with the entries	 made  in  O'Brien'sSettlement (1892-93), Anderson's Settlement (18991900),	 andthe  Settlement of Messrs Middleton and Shuttleworth  (1910-15).Before dealing with the actual entries made, it is necessaryto refer to a few more matters arising out of the settlementoperations  of	Messrs Barnes and  Lyall.   The	 expressions'ala-malik'  and  'adna-malik' have been used often  in	 thecourse of this litigation.  What do those expressions  mean?In Mr. Douie's Punjab Settlement Manual (1930 edition) it isstated118906in  para  143: "Where the proprietary right is	divided	 thesuperior  owner	 is known in settlement	 literature  as	 alamalik	or  talukdar,  and  the	 inferior  owner  as   adna-malik....................................   In	 cases	  ofdivided ownership the proprietary profits are shared betweenthe two classes who have an interest in the soil".  How thisdistinction  arose,  so far as the record-of-rights  in	 theJagirs are concerned, appears from para 105 at p. 60 of	 Mr.Anderson's report.  Mr. Anderson said:"The first great question for decision was the status of theRaja  and of the people with respect to the land, which	 wasactually  in  the  occupancy of the people,  and  next	withrespect to the land not in their actual occupancy, but	overwhich they were accustomed to graze and to do certain  otheracts.	Mr.  O'Brien  decided that  the	 Raja  was  superiorproprietor  or Talukdar of all lands in his Jagir,  and	 theoccupants were constituted inferior proprietors of their ownholdings  and  of  the waste  land  comprised  within  theirholdings  as  will  be	shown  hereafter;  be  never   fullyconsidered  the	 rights	 in  waste  outside  holdings.	 Thegeneral	 grounds fir the decision may be gathered  from	 Mr.Lyall's	 Settlement Report and from the orders on  the	SibaSummary	 Settlement  Report,  but  I  quote  at	 length	 theprinciples  on	which Mr. O'Brien determined the  status  ofoccupants  of  land, not merely because it is  necessary  toexplain here the action that he took, but also in order thatthe  Civil  Courts  which have to  decide  questions  as  toproprietary  rights  may know on what  grounds	the  presentrecord was based".Mr.  Anderson  then quoted the following  extract  from	 Mr.O'Brien's assessment report to explain the position:"In places where the possession of the original occupants ofland   was  undisturbed,  they	were  classed  as   inferiorproprietors;  but  where  they	had  acquired  their   firstpossession  on land already cultivated at a recent date,  orwhere  the  cultivators	 had admitted the  Raja's  title  toproprietorship during the preparation and attestation of theJamabandis, they were907recorded  as tenants with or without right of  occupancy  asthe circumstances of the case suggested................... ..........................................................In  deciding  the  question old	 possession  was  respected.Where  the ryots had been proved to be in  undisturbed	pos-session	 of  the soil they have been  recorded	as  inferiorproprietors".The same principles were followed in Nadaun: long possessionwith or without a patta or lease from the Raja was the	testfor  recording	the ryot as an	inferior  proprietor  (adna-malik).Bearing in mind the aforesaid distinction between  ala-malikand adna-malik, we proceed now to examine the actual entriesmade in the Wajib-ul-arz of 1892-93 (Ex.  P-5), of 1899-1900(Ex.   P-6)  and  of 1910-15 (Ex.  P-4).  In  Ex.   P-5	 therelevant entry in para 11 was:"The  owners  shall, however, have no right to	pine  trees.They  can  neither  cut	 them  nor  get	 the  same   withoutpermission,  for  it  has  been	 laid  down  in	 the  ForestSettlement  Reports  that  the Raja  Sahib  gave  leases  toreclaim	 such  lands whereon the Government  jungles,  i.e.,the'  Government  pine trees exist.  For  this	reason,	 theGovernment  maintained their right to the pine	trees. (seepara. 78 of the English report regarding jungles,.)".In Ex.	P-6 the relevant entry was-"Except the chil (pine) trees all the trees situated in	 theKhata  of  any	person in the Tikas of	the  Jagir  are	 theproperty of the owner of the Khata.  The chil trees  growingin such Khatas in the Tikas of the Jagir are the property ofRaja Sahib".In Ex.	P-4 the entry was-"Excepting  the	 pine trees all the trees  standing  in	 theKhata  of  any person in the Tikas of the Jagir	 save  thoseproprietary lands the trees whereof have been held belongingto  the	 Government during the recent Settlement  and  whichhave  been mentioned above are the property of the owner  ofthe  Khata.  In the Tika's of Jagir. all the- pine trees  ofsuch  Khatas  excepting those standing on  such	 proprietarylands, and which have been held to be the property908of  the Government during the recent settlement and  mentionwhereof has been made above are the property of Raja Sahib."The  question-before us is as' to the true scope  and  legaleffect	of these entries.  Do they establish a grant of	 theright to chil trees or, what is the same thing, a  surrenderof  that  right, in favour of the Raja	by  Government?	  Inthese cases we are not concerned with trees on public  wastelands,	nor  with forest trees; and as the  High  Court	 haspointed	 out,  we  do not know if the  lands  in  suit	wereinitially  private waste or recently reclaimed	lands.	 TheJamabandis  show  that they are proprietary  and  cultivatedlands of adna maliks.  Therefore, the question before us  isthe right to chil trees on proprietary and cultivated  landsin possession of adna maliks.It  is	not disputed that under s. 31 of  the  Punjab  Land-Revenue Act, 1887, Wajib-ul-arz is a part of the  record-of-rights, and entries made therein in accordance with law	 andthe  provisions	 of  Ch.   IV  of  the	Act  and  the  rulesthereunder, shall be presumed to be true (vide s. 44).	 TheWajib-ul-arz or village administration paper is a record  ofexisting  customs  regarding rights and liabilities  in	 theestate; it is not to be used for the creation of new  rightsor  liabilities.  (see	para 295 of  the  Punjab  SettlementManual,	 pp.  146-147,1930  ed.). In appendix  VIII  of	 theSettlement  Manual,  Section E, are  contained	instructionswith  regard  to  the Wajib-ul-arz  and	 instruction  No.  2states:"The statement shall not contain entries relating to mattersregulated  by  law, nor shall customs contrary	to  justice,equity or good conscience, or which have been declared to bevoid by any competent authority, be entered in it.   Subjectto   these  restrictions,  the	statement   should   containinformation  on	 so  many of the following  matters  as	 arepertinent to the estate:   .......................................................(h)The	rights of cultivators of all classes  not  expresslyprovided for by law (for instance, rights to909trees  or  manure, and the right to plant trees)  and  theircustomary liabilities other than rent.  ............................................ (j)The	 rights	 of  Government	 to  any  nazul	  property,,forests,  unclaimed, unoccupied, deserted, or  waste  lands,quarries,   ruins  or  objects	of   antiquarian   interest,spontaneous  products, and other accessory interest in	landincluded within the boundaries of the estate. ........................................................(1)  Any  other	 important  usage affecting  the  rights  oflandowners,  cultivators or other persons interested in	 theestate,	 not  being  a	usage  relating	 to  succession	 andtransfer of landed property".In the cases before us, the appellant did not base his claimon  custom,  though referring to his right be  said  in	 hisplaint-"this  has  been the practice throughout".   What  hereally	meant by "practice" was the land  system  prevailingunder  the old independent Katoch rulers.  We  have  alreadyheld  that the appellant did not get the sovereign right  ofthe  independent  Katoch rulers; nor did the grant  made  in1848  give him any right to the royal trees.  The  entry  inthe Wajib-ul-arz of 1892-93 (Ex.  P-5) is not really in	 hisfavour;	 it  states  that  trees  of  every  kind  shall  beconsidered  to be the property of the owners  (adna-maliks),but  the owners shall have no right to pine trees; for	thislast  part of the entry which is somewhat contradictory	 of-the  earlier  part,  a	reference is  made  to	para  78  ofAnderson's  Forest  Settlement Report as authority  for	 it.That  paragraph, however, stated in clear  terms-"No  ordershave  been passed by main regard to trees on fields, as	 thepresent	 enquiry  extended only to the waste land".   It  isobvious	 that the entry in the Wajib-ul-arz of 1892-93	wentmuch  beyond  what was stated in para 78 of  Mr.  Anderson'sreport, and so far as the right to pine trees on proprietaryand  cultivated	 lands was concerned, the statement  made  aconfusion  between  Government jungles,	 recently  reclaimedland and proprietary land, On its own showing, the entry was910not the statement of an existing custom, because it referredto para 78 of the Forest Settlement Report; far less did  itshow any surrender or relinquishment of a sovereign right byGovernment  in favour of the Raja.  Indeed, it is  difficultto understand how the surrender or relinquishment of such -aright  can  be	the subject of a village custom	 or  can  bewithin	the  scope  of an entry in  the	 Wajib-ul-arz.	 Theoriginal grant in favour of Raja Jodhbir Chand was by  meansof  a  Sanad, and one would expect any additional  grant  orsurrender  to  be embodied in a similar	 document.   At	 anyrate,  if  the intention of Government was  to	surrender  asovereign right in favour of the Raja, one would expect suchintention  to  be  expressed in	 unambiguous  language.	  InKhalsa	villages,  Government did surrender their  right  totrees  on Shamilat lands of adna-maliks on the authority  ofletter	No.  347  of  January  6,  1867.   Taking  the	mostfavourable view for the appellant, the entries in the Wajib-ul-arz	in these cases can be said to express the  views  ofcertain revenue authorities as to the rights of the Raja  orthe  intention of Government; but the views of	the  revenueauthorities  as to the effect or construction of a grant  orthe  intention of Government in respect of a grant,  do	 notconclude  the  matter or bind the civil Courts.	 (See  RajahVenkata Narasimha Appa Row Bahadur v. Rajah Narayya Appa RowBahadur(1)).The  same  comments apply to the Wajib-ul-arz  of  1899-1900(Ex.   P-6)  and of 1910-15 (Ex.  P-4).	 They no  doubt	 saythat the pine trees on the lands comprised within the Khatasof adna-maliks are the property of the Raja Sahib.  None  ofthem  indicate,	 however, on what basis the  right  to	chiltrees on proprietary and cultivated lands of the adna-maliksis  to	be  held the property of the  Raja  Sahib.   If	 therevenue	 authorities  made the entries on the basis  of	 theland system of the old Katoch rulers or on the basis of	 theSanad of 1848, they were clearly wrong. -If, however,  therewas a surrender by Government of the right in favour of	 theRaja,  one would expect it to be mentioned unambiguously  inthe entries; one(1)  [1879] L.R. 7 I.A. 38, 48.911would  further	expect	the  same to  be  mentioned  in	 theJamabandis  (Exs.   D-7 and D-8) of  the  adna-maliks.	 TheJamabandis  do	not, however, show any	restriction  on	 therights	of  adna-maliks with regard to the  trees  on  theirlands.	 A  reference may be made here to  another  document(Ex.  D-2) which is an extract of the Wajib-ul-arz (para 12)of '1892-93, dealing with the rights of ala-maliks and adna-maliks.	  The entry shows that the Raja Sahib was to get  15per  cent. on the net revenue in respect of the entire	landowned  by the adna-maliks as talukdari dues which  had	beenfixed: the talukdari dues were fixed to compensate the	RajaSahib  for  all sorts of dues, such as	banwaziri,  domiana,etc.   It  is  improbable that after the  fixation  of	suchtalukdari  dues,  a grant of a further right in	 respect  ofchil  trees  on the lands of adna-maliks  will	be  made butwill not be specifically mentioned in para 12 of the  Wajib-ul-arz, which dealt particularly with the rights of ala	 andadna  maliks.	Learned counsel for the appellant  drew	 ourattention  to  Ex.   D-6,  an extract  of  para	 11  of	 theWajib-ul-arz, of 1914-15, at the bottom of which there is  anote that the Zamindars (adna-maliks) were present and everyparagraph  had	been  read out to them	and  the  same	werecorrect.  The argument before us is that the adna-maliks ad-mitted the Wajib-ul-arz of 1914-15 to be correct.  We cannotaccept	that  argument; firstly, we do not  think  that	 theendorsement  at	 the bottom of Ex.  D-6 is an  admission  byadna-maliks of the correctness of the entries made in  otherparagraphs of the Wajib-ul-arz, as for example, para 10 (Ex.P-4) which related to the rights of Government in respect ofthe  nazul  lands, etc.	 Secondly, even if  the	 endorsementamounts to such an admission as is contended for by  learnedcounsel	 for  the  appellant, we do not	 think	that  it  isconclusive  or decisive of the right which the appellant  isclaiming.   Ex.	 P-2 dated May 27,1886, showed that even  sofar  back  as  at that date, sonic  of	the  adnamaliks	 hadcomplained  that the Raja's men had cut and taken away	somechil  trees  on their lands.  It is  quite  improbable	thatafter such a complaint the adna-maliks would admit the rightof the ala-malik912to  chil trees on their lands.	In para. 296 of	 the  PunjabSettlement Manual, Mr. Douie observed that the	Wajib-ul-arzin the first regular settlements was sometimes a  formidabledocument,  but its real value as evidence of village  customwas  not always proportionate to its length.  He  'A  quotedwith  approval the observations of Sir Arthur  Brandreth  tothe   following	  effect:  "Some  -few	points	 have	beenascertained  in each case, but in general the villagers	 didnot  know their customs very well, and when they  put  theirseals  to  the paper, no doubt they thought it	very  grand,though	they did not know what it was about, as	 they  couldlittle understand the language.	 The rules are of two sorts;one,  the rules laid down by Government, or points on  whichthe  whole pargana have the same custom, and, secondly,	 thespecial customs of the particular manor; these together takeup  a great number of pages, and the villagers are  confusedby the long code of rules, and merely say 'yes, yes' and puttheir  seals  to.  the	paper, hoping  it  is  nothing	verydreadful."A  large  number  of  decisions	 in  which  entries  of	 theWajib-ul-arz or the Riwaji-i-am and the value to be given tothem were considered, have been cited before us. In some  ofthem,  entries in the Wajib-ul-arz were accepted as  correctand in others they were not so accepted, notwithstanding thestatutory  presumption attaching to the entries under s.  44of the Punjab Land-Revenue Act, 1887.  We do not think	thatany  useful  purpose  will  be	served	by  examining  thosedecisions  in detail.  The legal position is  clear  enough.As was observed by the Privy Council in Dakas Khan v. GhulamKasim Khan(1), the Wajib-ul-arz, though it does not create atitle,	gives  rise to a presumption in	 its  support  whichprevails unless the presumption is property displaced It  isalso  true  that the Wajib ul-arz being part  of  a  revenuerecord	is of greater authority than a Riwaji-i-am which  isof general application and which is not drawn up in  respectof individual villages (Gurbakhsh Singh v. Mst. Partapo(1)).Whether the statutory presumption(1) A.I.R. 1918 P.C. 4.(2) [1921] I L.R. 2 Lah. 346.913attaching to an entry in the Wajib-ul-arz has been  properlydisplaced or not must depend on the facts of each case.	  Inthe cases under our consideration, we hold, for the  reasonsalready	 given by us, that the entries in  the	Wajib-ul-arzwith  regard  to the right of the Raja in  respect  of	chiltrees  standing on cultivated and proprietary lands  of	 theadna-maliks,  do not and cannot show any existing custom  ofthe village, the right being a sovereign right; nor do	theyshow  in  unambiguous  terms that the  sovereign  right	 wassurrendered  or relinquished in favour of the Raja.  In	 ourview,	it  would  be  an  unwarranted	stretching  of	 thepresumption  to	 hold that-the entries in  the	Wajib-ul-arzmake out a grant of a sovereign right in favour of the Raja;to  do so would be to hold that the Wajib-ul-arz  creates  atitle in favour of the Raja which it obviously cannot.It  is necessary to state here that in the  Wajib-ul-arz  of1899-1900 (Ex.	P-6) there was a reference to certain orderscontained in letter No. 1353 dated March 11, 1897, from	 theSenior Secretary of the Financial Commissioner.	 This Wajib-ul-arz also showed that certain amendments were made on	 May-26,  1914,  by	 an  order of  Mr.  Shuttleworth,  the	thenSettlement  Officer.   There  is a  further  note  that	 theamendment  was	cancelled on January 23, 1917. In  the	HighCourt  judgment there is a reference to the notes  mentionedabove  and the learned Judge who gave the  leading  judgmentobserved  that the aforesaid notes showed that the state  ofaffairs	 prevailing at that time was some what confused	 andfluid.	 It  is	 probable  that	 each  revenue	officer	 wasexpressing his own opinion about the matter.  An attempt wasmade  in  the  High Court to get  some	of  the	 unpublishedoriginal  documents of Government to clarify the entries  inthe  Wajib-ul-arz.  The Government of the  Punjab,  however,claimed privilege in respect of those documents, which claimwas  upheld  in the High Court.	 We  have  re-examined	thatclaim,	and  though  the  State was  not  a  party  to	thislitigation,  we heard the learned Advocate-General  for	 theState..914We found the claim to be valid under the law as itstands at present.We  have  assumed that the entries in  the  Wajib-ul-arz  of1899-1900   and	 of  1910-15  related  to   cultivated	 andproprietary  lands of adna-maliks, though they were  enteredin a paragraph which dealt with the rights of Government  inrespect of ownership of the nazul lands, jungles,  unclaimedproperty, etc.	Even on that assumption, we have come to theconclusion  that  the  entries in the  Wajib-ul-arz  do	 notestablish  the	claim  of the appellant	 that  there  was  asurrender  or relinquishment of a sovereign right in  favourof his predecessor.It remains now to notice' some other evidence on the record.Learned counsel for the appellant has referred us to severaljudgments,  Exs.  P-9, P-7, P-8 and P-4 (wrongly- marked  asEx.  P-6).  Referring to these judgments, the learned  trialJudge  said  that it was not clear whether  those  judgmentsrelated	 to  lands  which  were	 private  waste	 or   nautor(reclaimed) lands.  Apart, however, from that difficulty, weare of the view that, the judgments do not advance the	caseof the appellant any further.  They -proceeded primarily  onthe entries in the Wajib-ul-arz, the effect of which entrieswe have already considered at great length.  Admittedly,  noplea of res judicata arose on these judgments, and they weremerely	evidence  of  an assertion and	determination  of  asimilar	 claim	made by the Raja in respect of	other  landswithin the Jagir.As  to	the oral evidence in the case, none  of	 the  Courtsbelow  placed  any  great  reliance  on	 it.   The   learnedSubordinate Judge did not accept the oral evidence given  onbehalf	of  the	 appellant;  the  learned  District   Judge,referring to the oral evidence of the respondents, said thathe  could  not	accept that evidence in	 preference  to	 theoverwhelming historical and documentary evidence led by	 theappellant.   With  regard to the  appellant's  witnesses  heseemed	to think that some of them at least  were  reliable.The  learned Judges of the High Court did not refer  to	 theoral evidence except for a slight reference to the state-915ment of Salig Ram, the Raja's attorney, who appears to	havestated that the Raja got his rights in 1893-94; how the Rajagot his rights then was not explained.	Learned counsel	 forthe  appellant has referred us to the evidence of  one	BabuKailash Chander (witness No. 2 for the appellant), who was aForest	Range Officer.	This gentleman said that  the  treesstanding on the land belonging to the landlords were  exclu-sively	owned  by the Raja Sahib.  In  cross-examination  headmitted  that he had no knowledge of the trees in suit	 nordid  he	 know on which lands the trees	were  standing.	  Headmitted  that	he  knew nothing about	the  rights  of	 theJagirdar and the landlords inter se with regard to the landsin dispute.  It is obvious that such evidence does not provethe case of the appellant.  Had the Raja been in  possessionof the pine trees for such a long time as he now claims, onewould  expect  him  to produce some  documents	showing	 his-income,  etc.	from  the trees.   No  such  documents	wereproduced.For these reasons, we hold that the appellant has failed  toestablish  his claim to the pine trees, and the decision  ofthe  High  Court  is  correct.	The  appeals  fail  and	 aredismissed.  In the circumstances of these cases, where	muchof the doubt as respects the right claimed arose out of	 theentries	 made  in the Wajibul-arz, the High  Court  properlydirected  that there would be no order for costs  either  inthe  High Court or in the Courts below.	 We think that	thatorder was correct, and we also pass no order as to costs  ofthe hearing in this Court.Appeals dismissed.916