PETITIONER:PURSHOTTAM GOVINDJI HALAI	Vs.RESPONDENT:SHREE B. M. DESAI, ADDITIONAL COLLECTOR OF BOMBAY & OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:14/10/1955BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJANBENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJANBOSE, VIVIANJAGANNADHADAS, B.IMAM, SYED JAFFERAIYAR, N. CHANDRASEKHARACITATION: 1956 AIR   20		  1955 SCR  (2) 887ACT:Constitution of India, Arts. 13(1), 14, 21-Indian Income TaxAct  1922 (Act XI of 1922), s. 46(2)-Whether  offends  Arts.13(1),	14 & 21 of the Constitution-Bombay Land Revenue	 Act1876 (Bombay Act II of 1876)-Whether offends Art. 14 of	 theConstitution.HEADNOTE:The assesses carrying on business in the City of Bombay	 wasassessed to income-tax for the years 1943-44 to 1947-48	 and1951-52	 by the Income-tax Officer C-1 Ward Bombay.  As	 theassessee  did  not  pay the income-tax	due  the  Income-taxOfficer issued in April 1951 to the Additional Collector  ofBombay	a recovery certificate under s. 46(2) of the  IndianIncome-tax  Act,  1922.	  In February  1954  the  AdditionalCollector  issued a notice of demand and as no	payment	 wasmade  he  attached the good will and tenancy rights  of	 theassessee's  premises by a warrant of attachment	 dated	24thMarch 1954,888A  sale	 was held in February 1955.  The sale  proceeds	 notbeing sufficient to satisfy the assessed tax the  AdditionalCollector  issued  a notice under s. 13 of the	Bombay	CityLand  Revenue  Act, 1876 requiring the	assessee  to  appearbefore	him and show cause why he should not be	 apprehendedand  confined  to civil prison in satisfaction of  the	saidcertified  demand.  In default of assessee's appearance	 andshowing	 cause a warrant for his arrest was issued under  s.13  of	the  Bombay  Act, II of 1876  and  he  was  actuallyarrested  on  1st July 1955.  An application to	 the  BombayHigh Court under Art. 226 of the Constitution for a writ  inthe  nature  of	 a  writ  of  habeas  corpus  having  provedunsuccessful, an application under Art. 32 was filed in	 theSupreme Court for the same relief.  Two main points urged onbehalf of the assessee were:(a)  that s. 46(2) of the Indian Income-tax Act under  whichthe  Income-tax Officer issued the recovery  certificate  tothe  Additional Collector of Bombay was void, under Art.  13(1) of the Constitution in that it offended Art. 21 and Art.14 of the Constitution;(b)that	 s. 13 of the Bombay Land Revenue Act, 1876  (BombayAct II of 1876) under which the warrant of arrest was issuedby the Additional Collector was void under Art. 13(1) of theConstitution  as  the same was repugnant to Art. 14  of	 theConstitution.Held  (as  regards  a) (1) that there was  no  violation  offundamental  rights  under  Art.  21  of  the	Constitutioninasmuch  as s. 13 of the Bombay Act II of 1876 under  whichwarrant of arrest was issued for the recovery of the  demandcertified  under  s.  46(2) of	the  Indian  Income-tax	 Actconstituted  a procedure established by law.  Both s. 13  ofBombay Act II of 1876 and s. 46 of the Indian Income-tax Actunder which action had been taken against the assessee	werenot  void and therefore no question of violation  of  funda-mental rights under Art. 21 could arise at all)(ii)the	 contention that s. 46(2) of the  Indian  Income-taxAct  provides for two different and alternative	 methods  ofrecovery  of  the dues and clothes the	Collector  with	 theunfettered  and	 unguided power to apply either of  the	 twomethods inasmuch as it enables the Collector at his will  todiscriminate  between  two  defaulters	who  are   similarlysituated  and thus violates the equal protection  clause  ofthe  Constitution was without force because sub-section	 (2)of  s. 46 does not prescribe two different procedures.	 Theproviso	 enacted therein does not indicate a  different	 andalternative mode of recovery of the certified amount of	 taxbut only confers additional powers on the Collector for	 thebetter	and more effective application of the only  mode  ofrecovery authorised by the body of sub-section (2) of s.  46and  therefore there was no question of possibility of	dis-crimination at all;(iii)the  further  contention that s. 46(2)  of	 the  IndianIncometax  Act violates the equal protection clause  of	 theConstitution  and has thus become void under Art. 14 of	 theConstitution  as s. 46(2) required the Collector,on  receiptof the requisite certificate from889the  Income-tax Officer, to recover the amount specified  inthe certificate as if it were an arrear of the land  revenueand there are different laws adopted by different States forthe   recovery	 of  land  revenues  and   thus	  there	  isdiscrimination	on  the ground that defaulters	are  treateddifferently  in different States is also without  force	 be-cause	discrimination	complained  of	is   a	 permissibleclassification	and  does not offend the  fundamental  rightguaranteed  by	Art. 14 as the grouping	 of  the  income-taxdefaulters in separate categories on classes State-wise is aterritorial classification which is based on an intelligibledifferentia  and there is a reasonable nexus or	 co-relationbetween the basis of classification and the object sought tobe  achieved  by  the Income-tax Act.	The  fact  that	 theincome-tax  demand  is	a  Union  public  demand  makes	  nodifference in the legal position.Held,  (as regards b) that the contention that s. 13 of	 theBombay	Act  II of 1876 became unconstitutional	 under	Art.13(1)  of the Constitution in that the procedure  prescribedby  s.	13  of the Bombay Act II of 1876  in  respect  of  adefaulter  residing  in the City of Bombay was	harsher	 andmore  drastic than the procedure laid down in s. 157 of	 theBombay	Act  V of 1879 in respect of  a	 defaulter  residingoutside	 the City of Bombay was without force because s.  13of the Bombay Act II of 1876 was amended on 8th October 1954and  a new law laid down a law similar to the law laid	downby  s. 157 of the Bombay Act V of 1879 and thus the vice  ofunconstitutionality 'if any' was removed.State  of  Punjab v. Ajaib Singh &  Another  ([1953]  S.C.R.254),  Shaik Ali Ahmed v. Collector of Bombay  (I.L.R.	1950Bom.  150),  Chiranjit Lal Chowdhury v. The Union  of  India([1950] S.C.R. 869), Budhan Choudhry and others v. The Stateof  Bihar ([1955] 1 S.C.R. 1045), Middleton v.	Texas  Powerand Light Company (249 U. S.,152), Bowman v. Lewis (101 U.S.22;  25	 L.Ed. 689), The State of Rajasthan v.	Rao  ManoharSinghji ([1954] S.C.R. 996), Bhikaji Narayan Dhakras v.	 TheState of Madhya Pradesh, Nagpur and Another ([1965] 2 S.C.R.589)  and Erimmal Ebrahim Hajee v. The Collector of  Malabar([1954] 26 I.T.R. 509), referred to.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 270 of 1955.Under Article 32 of the Constitution of India for a Writ  inthe nature of Habeas Corpus.Hemendra Shah, J. B. Dadachanji and Rajinder Narain, for thepetitioner.M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General of India, C. K. Daphtary,Solicitor-General of India, (B.	 Sen and R. H. Dhebar,	withthem) for the respondent No. 1.8901955	October 14.DAS  ACTG.  C. J.-This rule was issued on a  petition  filedunder  article	32  of the Constitution	 by  one  PurshottamGovindji  Halai,  a  citizen  of  India,  calling  upon	 therespondents to show cause why a writ in the nature of a writof  habeas  corpus  should  not	 be  issued  by	 this  Courtdirecting the Superintendent, House of Correction,  Byculla,being the second respondent herein., to produce before	thisCourt	one  Govindji  Deoji  Halai,  the  father   of	 thepetitioner, who is also a citizen of India., for the purposeof being released forthwith.The facts which are not in dispute may be shortly stated  asfollows.    The	 said  Govindji	 Deoji	Halai	(hereinafterreferred  to as the "assessee") is the sole proprietor of  abusiness  carried  on under the name and style	of  IndestroSales  and Service Co. at No. 50-52, Lohar Chawl  Street  inthe City of Bombay.  Two private limited companies,  namely,Indestro  India Ltd., and Indestro Eastern Ltd., also  carryon  business and have their respective offices in  the	samepremises.  The assessee is said to have some connection withthe two companies the nature of which, however, is not quiteclear  on  the	record before us.  In  respect	of  his	 ownbusiness of Indestro Sales and Service Co., the assessee wasassessed  to income-tax for the years 1943-44  to  1947-1948and  1951-1952	by the Third Income-tax Officer,  C-1  Ward,Bombay, at and for Rs. 40,178-4-0.  The assessee not  havingpaid up the assessed amount of tax the Income-tax Officer onthe  10th April 1951 issued to the' Additional Collector  ofBombay, the first respondent herein, a recovery	 certificate,under section 46(2) of the Income-tax Act.  It may here  bementioned that the Indestro Eastern, Ltd., was also assessedto  income-tax	at  and	 for Rs.  1,92,000  and	 a  recoverycertificate was also issued by the Income-tax Officer to theAdditional Collector of Bombay.On the 1st February, 1954 the Additional Collector issued  anotice of demand on the assessee for payment of the assessedamount of tax.	No payment891having	been  made, the Additional  Collector  attached	 thegoodwill  and  tenancy	rights in the  said  premises  by  awarrant	 of attachment issued on the 24th March	 1954.	 Thesale proclamation was issued on the 15th January 1955.	 Thesale was held on the 25th February 1955 fetching a price  ofRs. 33,000 and it was confirmed on the 30th March 1955.	 Thesale  proceeds not being sufficient to satisfy the  assessedtax  the Additional Collector on the 7th June 1955 issued  anotice under section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act,1876, requiring the assessee to appear before him in  personon  the 16th June 1955 and show cause why he, the  assessee,should	not  be apprehended and confined to  civil  jail  insatisfaction of the said certified demand.  The assessee didnot  appear in person on the appointed day but on  the	nextday, the 17th June 1955, an Advocate acting on behalf of theassessee   wrote  a  letter  to	 the  Additional   Collectorpurporting  to	show cause why the assessee  should  not  bearrested  and sent to the civil jail.  The  contentions	 putforward	 on  behalf  of the assessee  not  being  consideredsatisfactory the Additional Collector on the 30th June	1955issued	a  warrant  for the arrest  of	the  assessee  undersection	 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act, 1876.	 Theassessee was actually arrested on the 1st July 1955.On the 8th July 1955 an application was made by the  presentpetitioner  to	the  Bombay High  Court	 under	article	 226complaining  of the arrest of his father, the assessee,	 andpraying for a writ in the nature of a writ of habeas  corpusfor the production and release of the assessee.	 A rule	 wasissued	by the High Court but eventually on the 24th  August1955 the High Court (Chagla, C.J. and Desai, J.)  dischargedthe  rule.   No application was made to the High  Court	 forleave to appeal to this Court from the decision of that HighCourt but on the 2nd September 1955 the present petition wasfiled in this Court under article 32 of the Constitution forthe  relief  hereinbefore mentioned.  On the  7th  September1955  a	 rule  was issued by this  Court  on  that  petitionsubject	 to the question of its maintainability in  view  ofthe dismissal by the113892High  Court of the petition under article 226 from which  noleave  to appeal to this Court had been sought or  obtained.The rule has now come up before us for hearing.	 In the viewwe  have  taken about the merits of the petition it  is	 notnecessary   for	  us  to  consider  the	 question   of	 itsmaintainability	 after the dismissal of the  petition  underarticle 226 or to make any pronouncement, on this  occasion,on the scope and ambit of article 32 of the Constitution  inthat situation.The  principal	contentions urged by  the  learned  Advocateappearing for the petitioner are as follows, namely,-(a)  that  section 46(2) of the Indian Income-tax Act  underwhich the Income-tax Officer issued the recovery certificateto the Additional Collector of Bombay is void under  article13(1)  of the Constitution in that the same offends  article22(1)	and   (2),  article  21	 and  article  14   of	 theConstitution;(b)  that  section 13 of the Bombay City Land  Revenue	Act,1876  under  which the warrant of arrest was issued  by	 theAdditional  Collector  is void under article 13 (1)  of	 theConstitution  as the same is repugnant to article 14 of	 theConstitution.We  proceed to deal with the objections seriatim.  Re.	(a):Section 46(2) of the Indian Income-tax Act which is impugnedbefore us runs as follows:---"46. (1).........................................(2)  The  Income-tax Officer may forward to the Collector  acertificate  under  his signature specifying the  amount  ofarrears due from an assessee, and the Collector, on  receiptof  such  certificate, shall proceed to	 recover  from	suchassessee  the  amount  specified therein as if	it  were  anarrear of land revenue:Provided  that without prejudice to any other powers of	 theCollector  in  this  behalf, he shall  for  the	 purpose  ofrecovering  the said amount have the powers which under	 theCode of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act V of 1908), a Civil Courthas for the purpose of the recovery of an amount due under adecree.The first objection to	 the above sub-section is that it893contravenes the fundamental rights guaranteed by clauses (1)and  (2)  of article 22.  In view of the  decision  of	thisCourt  in  the State of Punjab v. Ajaib Singh  &  Another(1)this  objection has not been pressed before us and  we	needsay no more about it.The second objection to section 46(2) of the Indian  Income-tax  Act is that it is violative of article 21.	 Article  21guarantees that no person shall be deprived of his  personalliberty	 except in accordance with procedure established  bylaw.   In  this case the assessee has been arrested  and  isbeing  detained in jail in execution of a warrant of  arrestissued under section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act,1876 for the recovery of the demand certified under  section46(2)  of the Indian Income-tax Act.  As long as those	sec-tions  stand  no complaint can be made	of  infringement  ofarticle	 21, for those two sections constitute	a  procedureestablished  by law.  It is only if those sections are	voidthat  the  question of violation of  the  fundamental  rightunder  article 21 can arise at all.  We have, therefore,  topass  on to the third objection to section 46(2) founded  onarticle	 14  of	 the  Constitution  which  alone  has	beenstrenuously insisted on before us by learned counsel for thepetitioner.Article	 14 is invoked in two ways.  It is pointed out	thatthe first part of section 46(2) provides that the Collector,on  receipt  of a certificate from the	Income-tax  Officer,shall  proceed to recover from the defaulting  assessee	 theamount	specified  therein as if it were an arrear  of	landrevenue.   It  is  next said that the proviso  to  the	sub-section	 invests the Collector with all the powers  a  CivilCourt has under the Code of Civil Procedure for the  purposeof  the	 recovery of the amount due under a decree.   It  issubmitted that section 46(2) provides for two different	 andalternative methods of recovery of the dues and clothes	 theCollector with the power to apply either of the two methods,that  is  to  say, he may issue a warrant  of  arrest  undersection 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue Act, 1876 againstone  defaulter and keep him in detention for a period  whichmay(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 254.894work  out  to  be much longer than six	months	and  he	 mayproceed	 against another defaulter under the Code  of  CivilProcedure  and arrest and detain him for the maximum  periodof  six months.	 The powers that are thus conferred  on	 theCollector  by section 46(2) are unfettered and unguided	 andenable	the Collector, at his will, to discriminate  betweentwo  defaulters	 who  are  similarly  situated	and  therebyviolate	 the behests of the equal protection clause  of	 theConstitution.  This argument appears to us to be founded  ona  misapprehension about the true meaning of section  46(2).On a proper reading, that subsection does not prescribe	 twoalternative  modes of procedure at all.	 All that  the	sub-section directs the Collector to do is to proceed to recoverthe  certified	amount	as  if it were	an  arrear  of	landrevenue,  that	is  to say, he is  to  adopt  the  procedureprescribed  by	the  appropriate law of his  State  for	 therecovery of land revenue and that in thus proceeding he	 is,under the proviso, to have all the powers a Civil Court	 hasunder  the  Code.  The sub-section does	 not  prescribe	 twoseparate  procedures.  The statement to the contrary in	 thejudgment  of  the Bombay High Court in Shaik  Ali  Ahmed  v.Collector of Bombay(1) does not appear to us to be  correct.In our opinion the proviso does not indicate a different andalternative mode of recovery of the certified amount of	 taxbut only confers additional powers on the Collector for	 thebetter	and more effective application of the only  mode  ofrecovery  authorised  by  the body  of	sub-section  (2)  ofsection	 46.  Viewed in this light, there is no question  ofthe possibility of any discrimination at all.  This part  ofthe argument cannot, therefore, be accepted.The  other  way	 in which the protection of  article  14  isinvoked is founded on a comparison of the provisions of	 thedifferent  laws	 adopted  by the different  States  for	 therecovery  of  land  revenue.   Section46(2)  of	 the  IndianIncome-tax  Act	 requires the Collector, on receipt  of	 therequisite certificate from the Incometax Officer, to proceedto  recover  from the assessee the amount specified  in	 thecertificate as if it were an(1)  I.L.R. [1950] Bom. 150, 155.895arrear of land revenue.	 This means that the Collector	musttake  such  proceedings	 as he would have done	if  he	wereengaged in recovering land revenue.  Thus a Collector in theCity of Bombay in recovering the certified amount of income-tax  must proceed under Ejection 13 of the Bombay City	LandRevenue	 Act,  1876 (Bombay Act II of 1876) and	 arrest	 anddetain him far the period therein mentioned which, prior  tothe 8th October 1954, might have worked out to a period muchlonger	than six months.  On the other hand, the  defaultingassessee in all other parts of the State of Bombay has to beproceeded  against  under  section 157 of  the	Bombay	LandRevenue	 Code,	1879 (Bombay Act V of 1879) under  which  hecannot	be detained for more than the period limited by	 theCode  of  Civil Procedure for the detention of	a  judgment-debtor	in  execution  of a decree for an  equal  amount  ofmoney.	 So, even in one State there were two procedures  towhich  defaulting assessees could be subjected according  asthey were in or outside the City of Bombay.  A Collector  inthe  State of Madras in recovering the certified  amount  ofincome-tax  has	 to proceed under section 48 of	 the  MadrasRevenue	 Recovery Act, 1864 (Madras Act II of  1864).	Whenthe  Collector	finds that the certified  amount  cannot  beliquidated  by	the sale of the property of  the  defaultingassessee  and the Collector has reason to believe  that	 thedefaulter is wilfully withholding payment or has been guiltyof  fraudulent	conduct	 in  order  to	evade  payment,	 theCollector  may,	 under	section 48 of that  Act,  cause	 thearrest	and  imprisonment  of the  defaulter,  not  being  afemale.	  But  that section goes on to say  that  no  personshall  be imprisoned for a longer period than two  years  orfor  a longer period than six months if the arrear does	 notexceed	Rs. 500 or for a longer period than three months  ifthe  arrear  does not exceed Rs. 50.  A	 Collector  in	WestBengal proceeding to recover the certified amount under	 theBengal Public Demands Recovery Act, 1913 (Bengal Act III  of1913)  cannot,	under  section 31 of that  Act,	 direct	 thedetention of the defaulting assessee in prison for more thansix months if the amount is more896than Rs. 50 or in other cases for more than six weeks.	 Thedefaulter  in  the Punjab cannot, under section	 69  of	 thePunjab Land Revenue Act, 1887 (Punjab Act XXVII of 1887), bekept in civil jail for more than one month.  Section 148  ofthe  U.	 P. Land Revenue Act) 1901 (U.P. Act  III  of  1901)limits	the period of detention to 15 days and also  exemptsmany   persons,	  e.g.	Talukdars  and	 women,	  from	 anyimprisonment.	The Assam Land and Revenue Regulation,	1886(Reg.  I of 1886) does not insist on imprisonment at all.  Acursory	 perusal  of the provisions of	the  different	Actsreferred  to above will at once show that in the  matter  ofrecovery  of  arrears of land revenue the  different  Stateshave prescribed different machinery, some obviously  harsherthan  others.	The  argument is  that	income-tax  being  asubject	 with respect to which the Union alone may make	 lawand  the recovery of it being the Union responsibility,	 themachinery for the recovery of income-tax should be framed ona  uniform all-India basis, for to the Union all  defaulterswho may not pay up the Union demand are similarly  situated;but  the Indian Income-tax Act by section  46(2)  authorisesthe Collectors in different States to adopt machinery  whichdiffers from State to State, so that defaulters are  treateddifferently  in	 different States.  The contention  is	thatsection 46(2) which sanctions such discrimination is clearlyviolative of the equal protection clause of the Constitutionand has, therefore, become void under article 13 (1).The  learned Attorney-General appearing for the	 respondentsseeks  to meet the aforesaid argument in two ways.   In	 thefirst place, he urges that the impugned sub-section does notby itself make any discrimination.  All that it says is thatthe certified amount of income-tax is to be recovered as  ifit  were an arrear of land revenue and there  its  operationends.  In recovering the certified demand the Collector	 hasto  have  recourse  to the machinery available	to  him	 forenforcing  a  demand  for arrears of land  revenue  but	 theprovisions of the State laws which prescribe that  machineryare not incorporated in section 46(2).897If  the	 State laws are discriminatory that vice  cannot  beimputed to section 46(2).There  is  good deal to be said on either side.	  The  Statelaws prescribe the procedure for the recovery of arrears  ofland  revenue  only  and  they are  not,  in  terms  and  bythemselves, concerned at all with the recovery of income-taxdemand.That machinery is  made available for the  purposeof recovery of income-tax by virtue only of section46(2)of the Indian Income-tax Act.	  In the matter of  recoveryof income-tax the Collectors adopt theprocedure laid downby the State laws, not because the State laws enjoin them todo  so but because section 46(2) directs them to do so.	  Inother words, it is section 46(2) which tells the  Collectorsof  Madras to follow the procedure under section 48  of	 theMadras Revenue Recovery Act, 1864 as if those provisions areset out in the Indian Income-tax Act in extenso and it tellsthe  Collectors of all other States to adopt  the  procedureprescribed  by	their own State laws as	 if  the  provisionsprescribing that procedure were set out in that section.  Insuch a situation it is a plausible argument to say that	 allthe provisions of all the State laws are, mutatis  mutandis,to be read into section 46 (2) and that, therefore, if therebe  any vice of discrimination in the State laws  that	vicecannot	but be regarded as having crept into section  46(2).On  the other hand, to hold that all the provisions  of	 allthe State laws for recovery of arrears of land revenue	havebeen  referentially  incorporated in section  46(2)  of	 theIndian Income-tax Act will lead us into difficulties.	Willthe  subsequent	 amendments  of	 the  State  laws  be	alsoincorporated in section 46(2)?	Section 46(2) of the  IndianIncome-tax  Act having incorporated the State laws  as	theythen stood, how can any State Legislature which has no powerto  make any law with respect to income-tax alter  or  amendsection	 46(2)?	  Are  the State  laws	as  incorporated  insection	 46(2) at the time it was enacted to be	 treated  ascrystallised  and to be applied by the Collectors,  althoughthe  State laws for the recovery of arrears of land  revenuemay be materially altered by sub-898sequent	 amendment?  These are some of the  questions  whichwill have to be answered before we can come to a decision onthis  point.  In the view we take of the second part of	 thelearned	  AttorneyGeneral's  argument  to  which  we   shallpresently  refer it is not necessary for us to	express	 anyopinion on this part of his argument.The learned Attorney-General then argues that assuming	thatsection	 46(2)	by incorporating the  different	 State	lawswhich  are  not	 uniform  has  become  discriminatory	suchdiscrimination	is  permissible	 and  does  not	 offend	 thefundamental  right guaranteed by article 14.  This  argumentappears to us to be well ,founded.The  meaning,  scope and effect of the article	in  questionhave  been explained by this Court in a series of  decisionsbeginning with that in Chiranjit Lal Chowdhury v. The  Unionof  India(1)  and ending with that in Budhan  Chowdhury	 andothers	v. The State of Bihar(1).  The following passage  inthe  unanimous	judgment  of  the Full	Court  in  the	lastmentioned  case	 at  p. 1049  briefly  summarises  the	trueintendment of the constitutional provision:-"...................................   It   is	 now   well-established that while article 14 forbids class legislation,it  does  not  forbid  reasonable  classification  for	 thepurposes  of  legislation.  In order, however, to  pass	 thetest  of permissible classification two conditions  must  befulfilled,  namely,  (i)  that the  classification  must  befounded	 on an intelligible differentia which  distinguishespersons or things that are grouped together from others leftout of the group and (ii) that that differentia must have  arational relation to the object sought to be achieved by thestatute	 in question.  The classification may be founded  ondifferent  bases;  namely,  geographical,  or  according  toobjects	 or occupations or the like.  What is  necessary  isthat   there   must  be	 a  nexus  between  the	  basis	  ofclassification	 and   the   object   of   the	 Act   underconsideration.	It is also well-established by the decisionsof this Court(1)  [1950) S.C.R. 869.(2)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1045.899that  article  14  condemns discrimination  not	 only  by  asubstantive law but also by a law of procedure".The  respective	 contentions  now  put	forward	 as  to	 thevalidity or otherwise of section 46(2) of the Indian Income-tax Act have to be judged in the light of the principles  solaid down by the Full Court.The Indian Income-tax Act imposes a liability on persons whoare  amenable  to it to pay the tax assessed  against  them.The assessed amount is a public demand of the Union and	 hasto be recovered, if not voluntarily paid up.  The  assesseesare  scattered	all over the Union and machinery has  to  bedevised for that purpose.  On looking round the Union  findsthat there is machinery in every State for recovery of	landrevenues which are State demands.  Each State in its  wisdomhas devised a machinery which it has considered	 appropriateand suitable for the recovery of its own public demand.	  Aswas  said  by the Supreme Court of America in  Middleton  v.Texas Power and Light Company(1)-"There	 is   a	 strong	 presumption  that   a	 legislatureunderstands  and correctly appreciates the needs of its	 ownpeople, that its laws are directed to problems made manifestby  experience and that its discriminations are	 based	uponadequate grounds".It is conceded that each State is well within its rights  todevise its own machinery for the recovery of its own  publicdemand	and  that  no  person belonging	 to  one  State	 cancomplain  that	the law of his State is more  rigorous	thanthat of the neighbouring state.	 The reason is obvious,	 forthe people of one State are not similarly situated as peopleof  another State.  Their needs, as understood by their	 ownLegislature, are different from those of the people of otherStates.	  If  in the matter of recovery of arrears  of	landrevenue defaulters of one State cannot complain of denial ofequal protection of the laws on the ground of the differencein the modes of recovery prevailing in other States, can  itbe  said to be unreasonable for the Union to adopt, for	 therecovery of its public demand from defaulters of each State,the same mode of recovery(1)  249 U.S. 152, 157.114900of  public  demand  prevailing	in  that  State?   Here	 thedefaulters are classified on a territorial, or	geographicalbasis  and  this basis of classification has  precisely	 thesame correlation to the object of the Indian Income-tax	 Actas  it	has to the object of the  different  Public  DemandsRecovery  Acts.	 The objects of the two Acts in this  behalfare  in pari materia and the same considerations must  applyto both.  People of each State are familiar with and used tothe  coercive processes which each State finds it  necessaryto  impose  on	its own people for the	recovery  of  publicdemand	and  there can be no hardship  and  consequently  noobjection  to their being put to the same processes for	 therecovery of the public demand of the Union.  The grouping ofthe  income-tax	 defaulters  into  separate  categories	  orclasses Statewise is certainly a territorial  classificationwhich  is  based  on an	 intelligible  differentia  and	 thesubjection,  for  the  purposes	 of  the  recovery  of	 thecertified  demand, of each of such classes of defaulters  tothe  same coercive process devised by their own State, on  aconsideration of local needs, for the recovery of their	 ownpublic demands, cannot be regarded as bereft of a reasonablenexus or correlation between the basis of classification andthe  object sought to be achieved by the  Indian  Income-taxAct any more than it can be so regarded with respect to	 therespective State laws.	The fact that the income-tax  demandis a Union public demand appears to us to make no differencein the legal position.The  Indian  Income-tax Act classifies people  into  variousgroups	for the purpose of imposing the tax and	 taxes	themdifferently,  e.g.,  insurance	companies  which  are  taxeddifferently  from an ordinary business concern and  in	somecases  exempts	them altogether,  e.g.,	 agriculturists	 andpersons	 with income below a certain level.  There  can,  onthe same principle, be no objection to people of a  backwardarea who may be in need of aid in the shape of tax remissionto be exempted from 'taxation either wholly or in part.	  Ifthis is right when a question of imposition is concerned, itcannot be wrong when the matter is one of recovery.  The twotogether make up the full measure of the901burden	and if it is permissible to vary the burden  at	 oneend it must be equally valid to vary it at the other for thesame or similar reasons.It  is said that the income-tax demand being a Union  demandthere  should be uniformity in the punishment to  be,  metedout  to	 defaulters and it can be done	easily	by  suitablyamending section 46(2) so as to provide for the detention ofall  defaulters	 for  the same period in all  cases  in	 allStates.	  In  the  first place, it is a	 fallacy  to  regardarrest	and  detention.	 of a defaulter	 who  fails  to	 payincome-tax as a punishment or penalty for an offence.  It isa coercive process for recovery of public demand by  puttingpressure  on the defaulter.  The defaulter can	get  himselfreleased  by  paying up the dues.  In the  next	 place,	 theCourt  is only concerned to interpret the law and, if it  isvalid, to apply the law as it finds it and not to enter upona  discussion  as  to what the law  should  be.	  The  wholeproblem before us is whether the apparent discrimination canbe  supported on the basis of a permissible  classification.The  case  of Bowman v. Lewis(1) is in point.	We  do	not,however,  find	it necessary to express any opinion  on	 theextreme contention urged by the learned Attorney-General, onthe  authority	of that decision, that	a  mere	 territorialclassification,	 by  itself and without	 anything  else,  isenough	to place the law beyond the operation of  the  equalprotection  clause.   Indeed,  in  that	 very  case  it	 wasrecognised  that  it  was not  impossible  that	 a  distinctterritorial establishment and jurisdiction might be intendedas  or	might have the effect of  discrimination  against  aparticular  race  or class where such race or  class  shouldhappen	to  be the principal occupants	of  the	 disfavouredarea.  For the purposes of this case it will suffice to	 saythat	the    discrimination	complained   of	   is	 notunconstitutional for the simple reason that the impugned lawis based on a territorial classification having a reasonablenexus  or correlation between that basis  of  classificationand  the  object  sought to be achieved	 by  the  Act.	 Ourdecision in The State of Rajasthan v. Rao Manohar Singhji(2)which is relied on by learned counsel for the petitioner  iseasily(1) 101 U.S. 22; 25 L. Ed. 989.(2) [1954] S.C.R. 996.902distinguishable on facts for, the law impugned in that	casefor the first time imposed certain disabilities on Jagirdarsof  a  certain area of the State and there was	no  evidencethat  those  Jagirdars were in any way	different  from	 theJagirdars  of the other areas of the State.  In the  presentcase  the classification has been made Statewise and  it  isclear that in the matter of payment of public demands of theStates	the  people of different States	 are  not  similarlysituated  and  their own States have imposed  on  them	suchcoercive  processes as the circumstances and needs  of	eachState require.	The law impugned before us has only adopted,for  its  own purpose, the same coercive process  which	 wasdevised	 by  the  States for their own	purposes  which	 areclosely	 akin or similar to the purpose of the	Union.	 Thesame  or similar considerations apply to both cases.   Thereis  the	 same or similar correlation between  the  basis  ofclassification	and the object sought to be achieved by	 theIndian	Incometax Act.	To deny this power to the  Union  onconstitutional grounds urged before us will lead us to	holdthat  no  new  offence created by law can  be  made  triableaccording to the procedure laid down in the Code of CriminalProcedure, for that Code sanctions different modes of  trialin  different areas, namely, by a Section 30  Magistrate  insome areas, by the Sessions Judge with assessors in  certainareas and by the Sessions Judge with jurors in other  areas.Adoption  of an existing machinery devised for a  particularpurpose	 cannot, if there be no vice of	 unconstitutionalityin the machinery render it unconstitutional if it is made tosubserve  a purpose closely akin or similar to	the  purposefor  which  it	bad  been  devised.   The  first   objectionformulated  by	learned	 counsel for  the  petitioner  must,therefore, be rejected.Re.  (b).-As  already  stated  under  section  46  (2),	 theCollector, on receipt of the certificate from the Income-taxOfficer,  has to proceed to recover the certified demand  asif  it were an arrear of land revenue.	This means that	 theCollector  of  a  particular  place has	 to  take  steps  asindicated  in  the  State law relating to  the	recovery  ofarrears of land revenue.  As already stated, in the State ofBombay there are two903statutes  regulating  the  procedure  for  the	recovery  ofarrears	 of land revenue according as the defaulter  residesin the City of Bombay or in any other area within the  Stateof Bombay.  Section 13 of the Bombay City Land Revenue	Act,1876  applies to the City of Bombay and section 157  of	 theBombay	Land Revenue Code, 1879 applies to the rest  of	 theState.	Prior to the 8th October 1954 the portion of section13  of	the  Bombay City Land Revenue  Act,  1876  which  isrelevant for our present purpose was as follows:"If the sale  of the defaulter's property shall not  producesatisfaction  of  the  demand, it shall be  lawful  for	 theCollector to cause him to be apprehended and confined in thecivil  jail under the rules in force at the  Presidency	 forthe confinement of debtors, for which purpose a	 certificateof  demand  under the Collector's signature  sent  with	 thedefaulter shall be the sheriff's sufficient warrant, equallywith the usual legal process in ordinary cases of arrest  inexecution of judgment for debt:Provided, however, that such imprisonment shall cease at anytime  upon payment of the sum due, and that it shall  in  nocase exceed one day for each rupee of the said sum".Section	 157  of the Bombay Land Revenue  Code,	 1879  whichprovides  for  the  arrest and detention  of  the  defaulterresiding  outside the City of Bombay Contains the  followingproviso:-"Provided   that   no  defaulter  shall	  be   detained	  inimprisonment  for a longer period than the time	 limited  bylaw  in	 the case of the execution of a decree of  a  Civil-Court  for a debt equal in amount to the arrear	 of  revenuedue by such defaulter".A cursory perusal of the two sections will show at once thatthe  procedure prescribed by section 13 of the	Bombay	CityLand  Revenue Act, 1876 for the recovery of arrears of	landrevenue was harsher and more drastic than the procedure laiddown in section 157 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879 inthat  a	 defaulter residing in the City of Bombay  could  bekept  in detention for a day for every rupee of the  arrearswhich  might considerably exceed the maximum period  of	 sixmonths which is the period904limited by the Code of Civil Procedure for the detention  ofa  judgment-debtor in civil jail.  The argument is  that  onthe advent of the Constitution section 13 of the Bombay CityLand  Revenue Act, 1876 became void under article  13(1)  inthat  it denied to the Bombay defaulter equality before	 thelaw  in	 comparison with the defaulter outside the  City  ofBombay,	 for  he could be detained for a  longer  period  oftime.	In  the view we have taken, it is not  necessary  toexpress any opinion whether the discrimination brought aboutby  the	 two  sections was supportable on the  ground  of  areasonable     classification	 based	  on	 territorialconsiderations	so  as	not  to	 offend	 the  constitutionalinhibition.  Assuming, then, but not deciding, that  section13  of	the  Bombay  City  Land	 Revenue  Act,	1876  becameinconsistent  with  the	 fundamental  right  guaranteed	  byarticle 14 and, therefore, became void to the extent of suchinconsistency,	it  was not, as recently explained  by	thisCourt  in  Bhikaji Narayan Dhakras v. The  State  of  MadhyaPradesh, Nagpur and Another(1), obliterated from the statutebook  for all times or for all purposes or for	all  people.The effect of article 13(1) is that the law could not  standin the way of the enjoyment of fundamental rights.  The	 lawwas  not  dead.	  Further, the law was amended	on  the	 8thOctober,  1954 when the proviso to section 13  quoted  abovewas replaced by the following proviso:-"Provided  that	 such imprisonment shall cease at  any	timeupon payment of the sum due and that itshall in no case exceed-(i)  A	period of six months when the sum due is  more	thanRs. 50; and(ii)A period of six weeks in any other case."This  amendment is nothing less than an enactment of  a	 newprovision.   It lays down a new law which is similar to	 thelaw  laid  down by section 157 of the  Bombay  Land  RevenueCode, 1879.  Therefore, the disparity that prevailed betweenthe  original proviso to section 13 of the Bombay City	LandRevenue	 Act,  1876 and the proviso to section	157  of	 theBombay Land Revenue Code,, 1879 is now removed, The(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 589.  905disparity  between  the two provisions	as  they  originallystood being thus eliminated, the vice of unconstitutionalityis  also  removed  and section 13 of the  Bombay  City	LandRevenue	 Act, 1876, as it now stands, cannot be assailed  asrepugnant to article 14 of the Constitution.It was faintly suggested that as the assessment	 proceedingshad been started and the certificate had been issued by	 theIncome-tax Officer to the Additional Collector of Bombay andthe  Additional	 Collector  issued a notice  of	 demand	 andactually attached the properties prior to the amendment, theassessee  must	be governed by section 13 as  it  originallystood  and  not by it as subsequently amended.	 We  do	 notthink there is any substance in this contention.  It is truethat the warrant of attachment of the property was issued onthe 24th March 1954 but the sale proclamation was issued andthe sale was actually held after the date of amendment.	 Thedefaulting  assessee  might have paid up the dues  in  whichcase  there  would have been no occasion for sale.   It	 is,therefore, his default that occasioned the sale.  Again, thesale  proceeds	might  have been  sufficient  to  cover	 thecertified  demand,, in which case there would have  been  nooccasion  for  the issue of warrant for his arrest.   It  isonly  after the sale proceeds were found to be	insufficientto  satisfy the assessed amount and the assessee  failed  topay  up the balance that the question of the arrest  of	 thedefaulter  arose.  By that time section 13 had been  amendedand  the warrant of arrest was issued on the 7th June  1955,that is to say, long after the amendment of the section.  Inour opinion, the second ground urged by the learned  counselmust also be negatived.We may mention that our attention was drawn to the  decisionof  the Madras High Court in Erimmal Ebrahim Hajee,  v.	 TheCollector  of Malabar(1) but learned counsel could not	relyupon it as an authority as it was itself under appeal beforethis Court.The  result,  therefore., is that this application  must  bedismissed.(1)  [1954] 26 I.T.R. 509.906CHANDRASEKHARA	AIYAR  J. I agree rather  reluctantly.	 Thereluctance is not because there is anything in the reasoningof  the judgment pronounced just now by my Lord	 which	doesnot appear to be sound but because I am not happy about	 theresult.We have to face and accept wholly different consequences fornon-payment of income-tax according as the assessee  belongsto  one State or another.  The nature of the tax is one	 andthe  same, and it is levied under a single Central Act,	 andyet  the ultimate coercive processes for recovery differ  innature	and  extent  between State and State.	We  have  toattribute to the legislature a rational classification basedon  geographical  areas, the susceptibilities of  people  inthose areas, and their reactions to the adoption of  methodsof  recovery.  For arrest and detention, wilful	 default  orfraudulent  conduct is required in Madras.  In Assam,  therecan  be	 no imprisonment at all.  The periods  of  detentionvary between Bengal, U.P. and the Punjab.  Taluqdars in U.P.are  completely	 exempt.  Are we to assume  that  people  inMadras are more amenable and generally ready and willing  topay as compared with those in Bombay who are a tenacious lotand  must  be  subjected to a longer  process  of  detentivecoercion?   Are	 the Talaqdars in U.P.	exempt	from  arrestbecause	  of  possible	political  repercussions   if	suchinfluential  persons are subjected to such treatment?	Whatis the rationale in providing different periods of detentionfor Bengal and the Punjab?We must be in a position to postulate some reasonable  basisfor  the  differentiation and we cannot get away  from	thisnecessity  by  vague  references'  to  the  wisdom  of	 thelegislature  or by indulging in pure speculation as to	whatmight have been at the back of its mind.  Speaking  broadly,for  the enforcement of the levy of a central tax  like	 theIncome-tax-  there  should be uniformity  of  procedure	 andidentity  of consequences from non-payment.   The  machineryfor  recovery might be different between the several  Statesbut the defaulting assessees must be put on the same footingas regards the penalties.But the law as it now stands can be supported on the groundsmentioned by my Lord and I do not propose to differ.907