PETITIONER:MCKENZIE & CO.	LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:ITS WORKMEN AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:17/10/1958BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.IMAM, SYED JAFFERDAS, S.K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  389		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 222 CITATOR INFO : F	    1960 SC 160	 (28) R	    1961 SC1158	 (12)ACT:       Industrial   Dispute-Illegal  strike-Enquiry   by   company-       Rejection  by  Tribunal	of application	for  Permission	 to       dismiss	workmen-Fresh enquiry if barred-Notice of  enquiry,       how   to	 be  effected  -Dismissal  after   fresh   enquiry-       jurisdiction of Tribunal- If can interfere with decision	 of       company-lndustrial Disputes Act (XIV Of 1947), s. 33.HEADNOTE:During	the pendency of the adjudication of a reference	 be-fore the Industrial Tribunal, the workmen illegally confinedthe  works manager and went on strike.	The  company  issuednotices	 to the workmen to resume work immediately but	theyrefused.  The company declared a lock out and served  chargesheets	on  the workmen calling upon them  to  submit  theirexplanations.	No  explanation having	been  submitted	 thecompany	 held  an enquiry and found the	 workmen  guilty  ofgross  misconduct  amounting  to  major	 misdemeanour  whichmerited	 dismissal.   The company applied  to  the  Tribunalunder S. 33 Of the Industrial Disputes Act for permission todismiss	 the  workmen.	The Tribunal granted  permission  inrespect	 of  three workmen but refused it in respect  of  61workmen on the ground that there was reasonable doubt as  totheir  identity and complicity in the incident.	  The  orderwas  upheld  in	 appeal by the	Labour	Appellate  Tribunal.Thereupon the company took fresh proceedings against the  64workmen.   It  sent  charge sheets  to	them  by  registerednotices	 to their addresses registered with the company	 andalso  affixed notices on its notice boards both	 inside	 thepremises and outside the gate.	The registered notices couldnot  be	 served upon workmen Nos. 2 to 24 as they  were	 notfound  at  the addresses given.	 The company  wrote  to	 theWorkers223Union  for  the addresses of these workmen but	received  noreply.	The company held the enquiry and, as at that time noproceedings  were  pending  under the  Act,  terminated	 theservices of the 64 workmen.  The Government made a referencein  respect of the termination of services of  the  workmen.Sixteen	 workmen  resigned  and one  pleaded  guilty.	Withrespect to the rest the Tribunal held that workmen Nos, 2 to24  had	 not  been  properly served and	 the  order  of	 thetermination  of their services was bad but upheld the  orderin respect of the remaining workmen.  Both parties  appealedto  the Labour Appellate Tribunal.  The	 Appellate  Tribunaldismissed the appeal of the company but allowed that of	 theworkmen	 holding  that the testimony of	 the  works  managercould not be accepted and apart from that evidence there wasno  other  evidence to show which of the workmen  had  takenpart  in wrongfully confining the works manager and  in	 theillegal strike.Held,  that the Appellate Tribunal was in error	 in  settingaside the order of termination of service on the around thatit was unable to accept the testimony of the  works-manager.It  was	 for the management to	determine  what	 constitutedmajor  misconduct within its standing orders  sufficient  tomerit  dismissal  of  a	 workman  but  in  determining	suchmisconduct  it	must  have  facts upon	which  to  base	 itsconclusions, and it must act in good faith, without  capriceor   discrimination   or   motive   of	 vindictiveness	  orintimidation,  without resorting to unfair  labour  practiceand  in	 accordance  with  the	accepted  rules	 of  naturaljustice.  When the management has so acted its judgment can-not  be questioned.  The Appellate Tribunal proceeded as  ifit  were  sitting  in appeal against the  decisions  of	 themanagerial  enquiry  and this was beyond the  scope  of	 itspowers.Indian	Iron and Steel Co. Ltd. v. Their Workmen, A.  1.  R.1958,  S.C. 130; Lakshmi Devi Sugar Mills Ltd. v.  Pt.	 RamSartip,	 A.  1. R. 1957 S. C. 82 and Hanuman jute  Mills  v.Amin Das, A.I.R. 1957 S.C. 194, followed.Held,.further,	that  both the Industrial Tribunal  and	 theAppellate Tribunal were wrong in holding that proper noticeshad  not been given to workmen Nos. 2 to 24.   The  standingorder merely required that service of notice upon a  workmanmay  be made by communicating the same orally to the  workerand/or	by  fixing the same on the company's  notice  board.The Company acted in conformity with this standing order  byaffixing the notices on its notice board.Held, further, that the second enquiry was not barred by theprinciple  of  Yes  judicatd  on  account  of  the  previousfindings of the Tribunal on the application under s. 33.  Asthe  purpose  Of  s.  33  is  merely  to  give	or  withholdpermission and not to adjudicate upon an industrial dispute,any  finding under s. 33 could not operate as  Yes  judicataand  bar  the raising of an industrial dispute.	  There	 wasnothing in S. 33 or in the findings of the224Tribunals  in  the s. 33 proceedings which could  debar	 thecompany	 from holding the second enquiry and dismissing	 theworkmen.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No. 500 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedSeptember 11, 1956, as altered by Order dated September	 28,1956,  of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India,  Calcutta,in  Appeals Nos.  Cal. 208 and 223 of 1956, arising  out  ofthe  Award  dated  June 7, 1956,  of  the  Sixth  IndustrialTribunal, Calcutta, in Case No. VIII-233 of 1955.M.C.  Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, D. N.  Mukherjeeand B. N. Ghosh, for the appellants.Y.Kumar,  for respondents Nos. 2 to 25 and 27 to  48.  1958.October 17.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byKAPUR,	J.-This	 is an appeal by special leave	against	 theorder of the Labour Appellate Tribunal and the question	 fordecision  is the dismissal of some workmen.   The  appellantbefore	us is the employer and the respondents are some	 of'the  workmen,  47 in number who might be  divided  into	 twosets,  the first set Nos. 2 to 24 and second Nos. 25 to	 48.Out of the latter No. 26 is dead.The facts leading to the appeal are that on August 3,  1953,the  Government of West Bengal referred under s. 10  of	 theIndustrial Disputes Act, hereinafter called the Act, to	 thesecond	Industrial Tribunal, an industrial  dispute  betweenthe appellant and its workmen.	During the pendency of	thisReference  the	workmen	 acted in  a  manner  subversive  ofdiscipline, wilful insubordination and disobedience inasmuchas  they surrounded by forming a kind of cordon round E.  L.D'Cruz,	 acting	 Works	Manager of  the	 company,  illegallyconfined  him in a small place in the factory  premises	 andkept him so confined between the hours of 9-15 a.m. to	2-15p.m., till he was rescued by the police.  The cause of	thisaction on the part of the workmen is stated to be a  disputeas to the payment of Puja bonus for the year 1953.  The same225day  the workmen went on strike at 9-15 a.m.  D'Cruz  calledupon them to resume work but they refused and the appellant-company issued notices at 9-45 a. m., and 10-45 a.m.  askingthe workmen to resume work immediately.	 The workmen took nonotice of these notices and the appellant company after	 thearrival	 of  the police declared a lock out.   Some  of	 theworkmen	 were  then arrested.  The  appellant  company	thenserved	charge	sheet on the workmen calling  upon  them  tosubmit their explanations within 24 hours.  The workmen gaveno  explanation.  An enquiry was held and the  workmen	werefound	guilty	of  gross  misconduct  amounting  to   majormisdemeanour   which  merited  dismissal  and  the   companyproposed  to dismiss them.  For that purpose  the  appellantcompany	 on  October 31,1953, made three  applications	Cal.Nos. 518, 519 and 557 of 1953 to the Tribunal for permissionunder  s. 33 of the Act to dismiss 170 workmen	with  effectfrom October 6, 1953.  During the course of the	 proceedingsthe  appellant	company withdrew its case  against  a  largenumber	of  workmen  and  the  proceedings  were  ultimatelycontinued against 67 workmen.  One of these workmen died andtwo resigned leaving 64 workmen against whom the proceedingswere continued.The  workmen in their defence denied the commission  of	 anyoffence and also denied the receipt of charge sheets.	Theypleaded	 that  there was no enquiry, that the  lock-out	 wasillegal and that the appellant had acted in contravention ofthe  principles of natural justice.  The three	applicationswere heard together and were disposed of by one order.	 TheTribunal held that a prima facie case had been made out	 forgranting  permission  for  dismissal  of  workmen   directlyinvolved  in  the incident; that the appellant	company	 hadacted	bona   fide   and  that	 it  was   not	 guilty	  ofdiscrimination,	  vindictiveness   or	arbitrary    action.Although  it had started cases against 170 workmen  it	tookback  a	 majority of them on their expressing  regret.	 TheTribunal  gave	permission for the dismisSal of	 only  threeworkmen Subbas Roy, Madhusudhan29226Rout and Bimal Kumar Ghose and permission with regard to therest  was  refused on the ground that there  was  reasonabledoubt as to their identity and complicity in the incident.On January 8, 1954, the workmen made an application under s.33A  of	 the Act which was allowed on July 2,  1954.   Threeappeals were filed, two by the appellant company against theorders	under s. 33 and the other made under s. 33A  of	 theAct.   The  third  appeal was filed by	workmen	 as  to	 thedismissal  of three workmen.  On March 29, 1955, the  appealof the company with regard to application under s. 33 of theAct  was dismissed and so was the appeal of the workmen	 andthus  the order as to 3 workmen was upheld.   The  employerscontended that as the strike was illegal, the management hadthe  right to terminate the services of the workmen and	 theTribunal  was  therefore  bound to accord  sanction  to	 themanagement but the Labour Appellate Tribunal did not go intothis matter as the question had not been raised at any	pre-vious stage.  On the same day tile Labour Appellate Tribunalset  aside  the order of the Tribunal under s.	33A  on	 theground	 that  the  application	 under	that   section	 wasmisconceived and the order made by the Tribunal was  withoutjurisdiction.On  April 20, 1955, the management of the appellant  companytook  fresh proceedings against the 64 workmen and in  orderto  serve charge sheets on them sent registered	 notices  totheir addresses, registered with the appellant company,	 andalso  affixed notices on its Notice Boards both	 inside	 thepremises and outside the gate of the premises which remainedaffixed	 there from April 20, 1955, till June 9, 1955.	 Outof  the registered notices sent notices could not be  servedon  workmen  Nos.  2 to 24 and they were  returned.  to	 thesender	with the remark that the addressees had either	leftor  their  addresses were unknown.  On April 28,  1955,	 theappellant company wrote a letter to the Labour	Commissionerinforming  him of the offences committed by the workmen	 andthe action that it proposed to take against its workmen.  OnMay  20, 1955, the appellant company wrote to the  secretaryof the Workers Union227asking him for the addresses of the workmen who had not beenserved	but  it received no reply from the  secretary.	 Theenquiry	 started by the management of the appellant  companyterminated  on	June  9,  1955,	 and  as  at  that  time  noproceedings  were  pending  under  the	Act,  the  appellantcompany	 terminated  the services of all the 64	 workmen  onJune 22, 1955.The  termination of the services of these workmen gave	riseto  an	industrial dispute and a reference was made  by	 theWest  Bengal Government on August 8, 1955, in regard to	 allthe 64 workmen.	 The points referred for adjudication.were:-(1)Whether the dismissal of the 64 workmen mentioned in	 theattached list is justified.  Whether the Company should	 notreinstate  them.  What compensation should they be paid	 forthe action taken against them by the Company ?(2)What	 compensation should be paid to them in	 respect  ofthe  period of enforced idleness from 6-10-53,	particularlyfor  the period they were refused permission to rejoin	workeven after their cases had been disposed of by the Tribunal(3)Whether  the	 Tribunal Awards concerning the	 64  workmenhave been properly implemented.	 What compensation should bepaid  to  them	by  the	 company  for  not  having  properlyimplemented the Award ?Sixteen	 workmen  resigned  and one  of	 them  Haroo  Haldarpleaded	 guilty	 and therefore	proceedings  were  continuedagainst	 only  47  workmen.  The  Tribunal  (6th  IndustrialTribunal,  West Bengal) made its award on June 7, 1956.	  Itheld  that  the workmen Nos. 2 to 24 had not  been  properlyserved	and  ordered their reinstatement as  from  April  1,1955, with back wages, dearness allowance, etc., from  April1, 1955, but upheld the dismissal of workmen Nos. 25 to	 48.It held that there was evidence to establish the identity ofpersons who had taken part in the strike and had  wrongfullyconfined  D'Cruz  and  that  no bias  or  illwill  could  beattributed  to	the management nor was it  inspired  by	 anyvindictive motives.  It said:Since there was evidence and it was a possible228view, the Tribunal must accept the finding and hold that thedismissal of those workers was justified ".In  regard  to wages the Tribunal held that  the  strike  ofOctober	 6, 1953, was illegal as at that time the  referencewas  pending before the Industrial Tribunal; that  the	lockout  was  fully	 justified  as	the  strikers  had  taken  abelligerent attitude and had actually kept the acting  WorksManager	 illegally  confined  till he  was  rescued  by	 thepolice; that no compensation could therefore be claimed	 forthe  period  from October 6, 1953, upto the  time  that	 theLabour Appellate Tribunal on March 29, 1955, disposed of theproceedings  under s. 33 - but the workmen Nos. 2 to 24	 whowere held to be wrongfully dismissed and had been ordered tobe  reinstated	but had not been allowed to return  to	workwere entitled to wages but only from April 1, 1955, upto thedate of reinstatement.	On the third issue i. e. the  matterof  Subbash  Roy,  Madhusudan Rout  and	 Bimal	Kumar  Ghoshpermission  for dismissal granted by the State Tribunal	 wasconfirmed  on  appeal.	No question  of	 compensation  couldarise in their case.Against	 this  order  of the 6th  Industrial  Tribunal,	 twoappeals	 were taken to the Labour Appellate Tribunal one  bythe  Union  and	 the other by  the  appellant  company.	  OnSeptember 11, 1956, the Labour Appellate Tribunal  dismissedthe appeal of the appellant company and allowed that of	 theUnion.	 It held that the evidence of E. L. D'Cruz given  inthe  managerial enquiry in May 1955 could not  be  accepted.In its order the Appellate Tribunal said:- In  June 1954 Mr. E.L. D'Cruz was unable to  give  evidenceagainst	 the appellants in Appeal No.Cal. 223 of  1956.	  InMay 1955 he gave evidence connecting the appellants with themisconduct that was committed on the 6th October, 1954.	  Noother evidence is to be found on the record to show that theworkmen	 who  are concerned in these  proceedings  committedmisconduct on the 6th October, 1954."In  these  circumstances,  it is difficult  to	act  on	 theevidence given by Mr. E.L. D'Cruz in the managerial  enquiryin May 1955After refering to the principles laid down in the case of229Buckingham  and	 Carnatic Co. Ltd. v. Its  workmen  (1)	 theLabour	Appellate Tribunal ruled out the evidence of  D'Cruzand  as	 there	was no other evidence  to  prove  misconductagainst	 the  workmen, it came to the  conclusion  that	 thedecision of the managment was perverse.	 It held:-"  In  these circumstances, we set aside the  order  of	 theIndustrial  Tribunal giving permission to the management  todischarge the appellants from serviceand consequently the order of the Industrial Tribunal givingpermission to discharge workmen Nos. 25 to 48 was set aside.The  Appellate	Tribunal  suo motu  amended  this  order  onSeptember 28, 1956, and the following order was	 substitutedin place of the operative portion 'of the order of September11, 1956: "  In these circumstances we set aside the order  of  the.-Industrial  Tribunal upholding the action of the  Managementin  'discharging the appellants from service........ In	 theresult	the Award under appeal con I firmiag the  action  ofthe  Management	 in  discharging twenty	 four  workmen	fromservice	 is  set  aside.  In other respects  that  Award  isconfirmed.  In other words we order the reinstatement of thetwenty	four workmen discharged by the Management with	backwages for the period between the 1st of April, 1955, to	 thedate of reinstatement ".Against	 this  order the appellant company has	come  up  inappeal	by  special  leave and on  its	behalf	the  learnedAttorney  General raised two questions : (1) that appeal  toLabour	Appellate  Tribunal on behalf of the Union  was	 notcompetent as no question of law was involved and (2) that itcould not sit in appeal against the managerial enquiry.	  Itis  not necessary to go into the first question because,  inour  opinion,  the second question raised is  well  founded.The  principles	 which	govern the power  of  an  IndustrialTribunal  to  interfere with the decision  of  the  employerfollowing  an  enquiry made by him were laid  down  by	thisCourt in Indian Iron and Steel Co. Ltd. v. Their Workmen (2)whereS.   K. Das J., said at page:138:(1) (1952) L.A.C. 490.(2) A.I.R. 1958 S-C. 130.230Undoubtedly, the management of a concern has power to directits  own  internal administration and  discipline;  but	 thepower,	 is  not  unlimited  and  when	a  dispute   arises,Industrial  Tribunals  have  been given	 the  power  to	 seewhether the termination of service of a workman is justifiedand  to give appropriate relief.  In cases of  dismissal  ormisconduct,  the Tribunal does not, however, act as a  Courtof  appeal and -substitute its own judgment for that of	 themanagement.   It  will interfere (i)-when there is  want  ofgood  faith,  (ii)  when there is  victimisation  or  unfairlabour; practice, (iii) when the management has been  guiltyof  a  basic error or violation of a  principle	 of  naturaljustice,  and  (iv) when on the materials,  the	 finding  iscompletely baseless or perverse."In Lakshmi Devi Sugar Mills Ltd. v. Pt.	 Ram Sarup which wasa  case	 under s. 22 of the Industrial	Disputes  (AppellateTribunal)  Act,	 1950,	this  Court  held  that	 if  it	 wasestablished that the workmen had resorted to illegal strike,that  a	 fair  enquiry	into  the  alleged  misconduct	 andinsubordination	 of  their  workmen had	 been  held  by	 themanagement  without  violating	any  principles	 of  naturaljustice and as a result of enquiry the management had  foundthe  workmen guilty of misconduct and  insubordination	withwhich  they had been charged and the management had come  tothe conclusion that continuing the workmen in its employ wasdangerous in the interest of the company the Tribunal  wouldnot interfere with such order.In  Hanuman Jute Mills v. Amin Das (2) it was held  that  noappeal	lies  against the order of  an	Industrial  Tribunalwhere  the  Tribunal had examined the question	whether	 thediscretion  of the employer to dismiss certain	workmen	 wasproperly  exercised,  whether the employer was	acting	bonafide, whether he had resorted to any unfair labour  practiceor  victimization  and	whether his desire  to	dismiss	 theworkmen was actuated by any improper motive.It is for the management to determine what constitutes majormisconduct  within its standing orders sufficient  to  meritdismissal of a workman but in(1) A.I.R. 1957 S.C. 82.(2) A.I.R. 1957 S-C. 194.231determination such misconduct it must have facts upon  whichto  base  its  conclusions and it must	act  in	 good  faithwithout	 caprice  or discrimination and without	 motives  ofvindictiveness,	 intimidation or resorting to unfair  labourpractice  and  there must be no infraction of  the  acceptedrules  of  natural justice.  When the management  does	havefacts  from  which it can conclude misconduct  its  judgmentcannot be questioned provided the above mentioned principlesare  not violated. But in the absence of these facts  or  incase  of  violation  of the principles	set  out  above	 itsposition is untenable.In our opinion, the Industrial Tribunal proceeded on correctprinciples  as to its power in regard to an enquiry held  bythe  management and the Labour Appellate Tribunal  seems  tohave approached the question as if it was sitting in  appealagainst	 the decision taken by the management in  regard  tothe termination of service of their workmen.  In the instantcase  none of the principles, which have been laid  down  byLabour Courts as well as by this Court in regard to  enquiryby the management into the misconduct of their workmen, havebeen violated and the Labour Appellate Tribunal was in errorin setting aside the order of the Industrial Tribunal on theground that it was unable to accept the testimony of  D'Cruzas  to	the  identity  of persons  who	bad  taken  part  inwrongfully  confining him on the day of the illegal  strike.It appears to have proceeded as if it was sitting in  appealagainst	 the decision of the managerial enquiry and  furtherit  was	 under	a misapprehension as to the  nature  of	 theproceedings  before  the  Industrial  Tribunal	and   beforeitself,	 inasmuch as it seems to have been under  the  wrongimpression  that  the  appeal  before it  arose	 out  of  anapplication under s. 33 -of the Act and that the  IndustrialTribunal  had given permission to the appellant	 company  todischarge  its	workmen.  Its amended order  shows  that  itthought, and again wrongly, that really the proceedings wereunder s. 33A of the Act and it was that mistaken view of thenature	of  the	 proceedings  which led	 to  its  order	 forreinstatement  of the workmen with back wages from April  1,1955, to232the  date of reinstatement.  The Labour	 Appellate  Tribunalseems to have overlooked the fact that the appeal before  itarose out of a Reference made by the West Bengal  Governmentunder s. 10 of the Act.	 This misconception as to the natureof  the	 proceedings  vitiated its order  as  the  AppellateTribunal misdirected itself as to the scope of the powers tobe exercised by it and consequently it led to the making  ofan erroneous order.The  question  then  arises as	to  whether  the  managerialenquiry	 was vitiated by the infraction of any principle  ofnatural	 justice.   According to the standing  orders  MajorMisdemeanors  have  been  defined in el.  15,  the  relevantportion of which is:-(a)  Willful insubordination or disobedience.(b)  Inciting to take part or taking part in an illegalstrike.	 (Any  strike resorted to without giving  notice  asprovided  under	 Section 22 of the Industrial  Disputes	 Actwill be considered as illegal)The mode of service of notice as given in the standing orderNo. 15 is as follows:-No  order  of  dismissal shall be  made	 unless	 the  workerconcerned  is informed and given opportunity  of  explainingthe circumstances alleged against him, but to avail  himselfof  this  privilege  such  worker  must	 attend	 before	 themanagement when directed to do so.  Service of any notice ordirection  upon a workman to attend under this rule  may  bemade  by  communicating	 the  same  orally  to	the   workerconcerned and/or by fixing the same on the Company's  NoticeBoard ".In the present case the management of the appellant  companytook  the precaution of affixing the notices on	 its  NoticeBoards	both inside and outside the company's premises,	 andthere  is evidence to show that they remained  affixed	fromApril  20,  1955  till June 9, 1955,  i.e.  right  upto	 thetermination  of	 the  enquiry.	 It  also  sent	  RegisteredAcknowledgement	 Due notices to all workmen.  When  some  ofthem  came  back unserved it wrote to the secretary  of	 theUnion  asking  for  the addresses of the  workmen  but	thatgentleman  did	not  ,Care to reply  to	 this  letter.	 Themanagement also wrote233to the Labour Commissioner as to the action it was proposingto take.The Industrial Tribunal held that there was no proper noticeto workmen Nos. 2 to 24 and the mere affixing of the noticeson the Notice Board-of the company was not sufficient as theworkmen could not enter the appellant company's premises dueto  the	 look  out.  It overlooked the evidence	 as  to	 thenotices	 being	affixed	 on the	 appellant  company's  boardoutside its gate from where the workmen were not excluded asa result of the lock out and it was open to them if they  sodesired	 to go and look up the notices there.	Further	 theTribunal was of the opinion that the appellant company mighthave  sent the notices to the secretary of the Union  "	 forcirculation  to the absentees ". In the first place this  isnot one of the recognised modes of effecting service and  inthis  case  the	 company would have been  justified  in	 nottaking	this  action  after  the  way  that  gentleman	 hadneglected  even to reply to the appellant  company's  letterasking	him to supply the addresses of the  workmen.   Apartfrom  complying	 with  its  standing  orders  the  appellantcompany	 made every effort under the circumstances to  servenotices	 on  its workmen.  No principle of  natural  justicehas,  in our opinion, been infringed and the finding  as  tothe workmen having no notice of the charges against them andconsequently  not  having a proper opportunity to  meet	 thecase  against them cannot be sustained.	 It cannot  be	saidthat the workmen did not have a proper opportunity to answerthe case against them.	If the rule were as the order of theIndustrial  Tribunal holds it to be then by their action  ofnot  giving proper addresses to the employer  or  abstainingfrom  looking up the Notice Boards where under the  standingorders notices were required to be affixed the workmen mightmake  it  impossible for an employer  to  take	disciplinaryaction assuming that such action is necessary or  justified.The Labour Appellate Tribunal did not consider or apply	 itsmind  to  this	aspect	of  the	 case,	it  being  under   amisapprehension as to correct nature of the proceedings.30234Counsel	 for respondents raised four points: (1) that  therewas  no proper notice served on workmen Nos. 2 to  24  afterthe-decision of the Industrial Tribunal refusing  permissionto dismiss the workmen under s. 33 of the Act ; (2) that  nosecond enquiry could be held because the earlier findings ofthe Tribunal on the application under section 33 of the	 Actwould	not  be	 challengeable	on  the	 principle  of	 resjudicature; (3) that there are basic errors in the award  ofthe Industrial Tribunal which was rightly interfered with onappeal	by  the Labour Appellate Tribunal and (4)  that	 theworkmen	 were entitled to compensation.	 As to	notices	 thesubmission  of	the  counsel for the  respondents  was	thatnotice given to the workmen Nos. 2 to 24 was not adequate asthe employer did not send the notices to the Union for beingserved on the workmen and in any case in order to serve	 theworkmen	 properly it was necessary in the  circumstances  ofthis case for the employer to advertise the case in Bengaleenewspapers.  We have already held that in the  circumstancesof  this  case the appellant company had done  its  best  toserve the workmen and had complied with the standing  ordersand  it was not necessary for the appellant to	do  anythingmore.	This  contention of the	 respondents'  counsel	musttherefore be repelled.As to the applicability of the principle of res judicata theargument  raised  by counsel for respondents  was  that	 thefindings  of  the State Industrial Tribunal  in	 proceedingsunder  s. 33 of the Act which were confirmed by	 the  LabourAppellate Tribunal barred the right of the management of theappellant company to start a fresh enquiry in respect of thesame  incident	which  formed  the  subject  matter  of	 theprevious  enquiry.   There is no force in  this	 contention,which  seems  to  be based on a misapprehension	 as  to	 thenature	and scope of proceedings under s. 33.  That  sectiondoes not confer any jurisdiction on a Tribunal to adjudicateon a dispute but it merely empowers the Tribunal to give  orwithhold  permission to the employer during the pendency  ofan  industrial	dispute	 to discharge or  punish  a  workmanconcerned  in  the  industrial	dispute.   And	in  decidingwhether permission should or should235not  be	 given, the Industrial Tribunal is not to act  as  areviewing  tribunal against the decision of  the  managementbut  to	 see  that  before it  lifts  the  ban	against	 thedischarge  or punishment of the workmen the  employer  makesout  a Prima facie case.  The object of the section.  is  toprotect	 the workmen in pending industrial disputes  againstintimidation  or  victimisation.  As said  above  principlesgoverning  the giving of permission in such cases  are	thatthe  employer is not acting mala fide, is not  resorting  toany  unfair labour practice, intimidation  or  victimisationand  there  is	no  basic  error  or  contravention  of	 theprinciples of natural justice.	Therefore when the  Tribunalgives  or  refuses  permission it  is  not  adjudicating  anindustrial dispute, its function is to prevent victimisationof  a workman for having raised an industrial dispute.	 Thenature and scope of proceedings under s. 33 shows, that	 re-moving	or  refusing  to remove the  ban  on  punishment  ordismissal  of  workmen	does  not  bar	the  raising  of  anindustrial dispute when as a result of the permission of theIndustrial  Tribunal the employer dismisses or punishes	 theworkmen.   Atherton  West & Co. Ltd. v.	 Suti  Mill  MazdoorUnion (1), Lakshmi Devi Sugar Mills v. Pt.  Ram Sarup (2).In the Automobile Products of India Ltd. v. Rukmaji Bala  (34V44) Das J., (as be then was) said at p. 1256:--"The purpose of these two sections (s. 33 of the  IndustrialDisputes Act and s. 22 of the Industrial Disputes (AppellateTribunal) Act) being to determine whether the ban should  beremoved	 or  not,  all that is	required  of  the  authorityexercising  jurisdiction  under	 these two  sections  is  toaccord or withhold permission ".As  the	 purpose of s. 33 of the Act is merely	to  give  orwithhold permission and not to adjudicate upon an industrialdispute,  any findidg under s. 33 would not operate  as	 resjudicata and bar the raising of an industrial dispute nor isthere  anything	 in the section itself or  in  the  findingsarrived	 at by the Industrial Tribunal in s. 33	 proceedingsdated  June  6, 1954, or of the	 Labour	 Appellate  Tribunaldated March 29, 1955,(I) [1953] S.C.R. 720. 788.	 (2) A.I.R. 1057 S.C. 82.(3) [1955] I S.C.R. 1241.236which  would  debar the appellant company from	holding	 thesecond	enquiry	 or  dismissing	 the  workmen  provided	 theprinciples above set out are complied with.It  was next contended that in the present case there was  abasic  error within the meaning of the rule laid down by  S.K.  Das	 J.,  in Indian Iron and Steel	Co.  Ltd.  v.  TheirWorkmen(1).  The - basic error according to counsel was thisthat  the  appellant company's witness Serjeant	 Boards	 hadstated that the number of persons who had confined and	weresurrounding D'Cruz was 100 to 130 persons and if out of them106 were reinstated there could not be 67 workmen left to beproceeded  against.   The  appellant  company  had   startedproceedings against 170 workmen i. e. all their workmen	 andafter  reinstatement  of  a large number  of  them  only  67remained against whom the appellant company took proceedingswith  a	 view  to take action against them and.	 it  was  inregard	to these persons that permission for  dismissal	 wassought under s. 33.  It is significant that this basic errordoes  not  seem	 to  have  been	 argued	 either	 before	 theIndustrial Tribunal or the Labour Appellate Tribunal, on theother hand, the parties seem to have proceeded on the  basisthat  the  number  of  workmen	proceeded  against  by	 theappellant  company  was 67 out of whom 64  were	 left  afterthree were allowed to be dismissed.  Out of the rest 16	 badresigned and there were only 48 persons whose cases remainedfor adjudication by the Industrial Tribunal.  No basic erroris therefore made out.The  question of compensation to the workmen from  the	datewhen  they were ordered to be reinstated i.e. from April  1,1955,  to June 6, 1955, when their services were  terminatedis  equally unsustainable.  The Industrial Tribunal  in	 itsorder of June 26, 1954, and the Labour Appellate Tribunal inits  order  dated  March 29, 1955, held	 the  strike  to  beillegal.   Mr. S. C. Sen Gupta Judge of the  6th  IndustrialTribunal  who gave the award dated June 7, 1956, refused  togive any compensation to workmen Nos. 25 to 48 whose dismis-sal. he upheld on the ground that the strike was illegal,(1)  A.I.R. 1958 S.C. 130.237the  strikers  had taken up a belligerent attitude  and	 thelock out was fully justified.  The Labour Appellate Tribunalawarded	 to the 24 workmen reinstated by its  amended  orderdated September 28, 1956, back wages from April 1, 1956,  tothe  date  of reinstatement as was done	 by  the  IndustrialTribunal  in  the  case of workmen Nos. 2 to  24,  whom	 theTribunal  bad ordered to be reinstated.	 As we have come  tothe  conclusion	 that  the order  of  reinstatement  by	 theIndustrial  Tribunal  of  workmen Nos. 2 to 24	and  by	 theAppellate  Tribunal of workmen Nos. 25 to 48 was  erroneous,neither of the two sets of workmen is entitled to back wagesby way of compensation.The  appeal  is therefore allowed and the  decision  of	 theLabour	Appellate  Tribunal as to all the  workmen  and	 theaward of the Industrial Tribunal as to workmen Nos. 2 to  24are  set  aside	 and the claim for  compensation  which	 wasargued	before us is disallowed.  As the workmen  have	beendismissed  and no compensation has been allowed	 the  properorder as to costs is that both parties do pay their costs ofthis appeal.Appeal allowed.