PETITIONER:COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, DELHI	Vs.RESPONDENT:MESSRS.	 P. M. RATHOD & CO.DATE OF JUDGMENT:20/05/1959BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1394		  1960 SCR  (1) 401ACT:Income-tax-Place of accrual or receipt of Profits-Goods soldby  a trader in a Part B State to customers in Part A  or  CStates	Goods  sent by Value Payable Post  or  by  rail-Postoffice,	 whether agent of seller or bailee of  goods-Railwayreceipt sent to bankers to be delivered to customers againstPayment-Concessional  rate of taxation applicable to Part  BStates-Indian Sale of Goods Act, 1930 (3 Of 1930), S. 25(1)-Indian Contract Act, 1872 (9 of 1872), S. 148.HEADNOTE:   The respondents were manufacturers of perfumery and	hairoils  at Ratlam in Madhya Bharat which at the relevant	timewas  a	Part B State.  They sent out  agents  who  canvassedorders.	  The goods ordered were sent to the customers	fromRatlam either through the post office by Value Payable	Postor  they  were	sent  from there by  rail  and	the  railwayreceipts in favour of self were sent through a bank with thedirection  that	 they (railway receipts) were to  be  handedover  against  payment of the enclosed	demand	draft.'	 Theprice  when  received  by the bank was sent by	means  of  ademand draft to the respondents at Ratlam who bad it  cashedand  credited to their account at Bombay.   The	 respondentswere assessed to income-tax, in respect of profits from suchsales of goods to customers in Part A and C States, for	 theassessment year 1950-51, at the rate or rates applicable  toincome,	 profits  or  gains arising or accruing	 in  Part  AStates on the footing that the sales were effected in Part Aand C States and the payments were also received there.	 Therespondents  claimed  that the prices  realised	 constitutedreceipts in Ratlam51402and that therefore they. were liable to be assessed only  atthe  concessional  rates applicable to Part B  States.	 TheAppellate  Tribunal  held that the price of  goods  sent  byValue  Payable	Post  was received at  Ratlam  and  that  inrespect of the price received by bank drafts which had	beenrealised  through  the bank at Bombay, the  amount  must  betreated	 as having been received in a Part A State.  At	 theinstance   of  the  Commissioner  of  Income-tax   and	 therespondents, the Tribunal referred two questions to the HighCourt:	(1) Whether the bank drafts payable in Part A  or  CStates	but  received  at Ratlam and  encashed	through	 theassessee's bankers at Bombay constituted receipts in Part  AState?	(2) Whether the receipt of sale proceeds  at  Ratlam(which included the assessee's profits) in respect of  goodssent  by the assessee to customers in Part A or C States  byV.P.P.	amounted to receipts of income, profits or gains  atRatlam	in a Part B State?  The High Court  having  answeredboth  the questions in favour of the respondents,  the	Com-missioner  of Income-tax preferred an appeal to the  SupremeCourt :-  Held:	  (1)  When a question referred to the Court is	 notproperly  framed,  it is open to the Court  to	reframe	 thequestion which arises on a proper appreciation of the  factsof the Case.  Narain  Swadeshi  Weaving  Mills v.  The  Commissioner  ofExcess Profits Tax, [1955] 1 S.C.R. 925, followed.  The proper question that arose on the facts of the presentcase   was  held  to  be:  "  Whether  on  the	 facts	 andcircumstances of this case the payment received from a buyerby  a  banker  in Part A or C  States  against	delivery  ofrailway receipts for goods sent by the seller is payment  inthese States or in Ratlam which was a Part B State." (2) Where  goods are sent by rail and the railway  receiptsin,  favour of self are sent to a banker to be delivered  tothe buyer against payment of the price, the appropriation tothe  contract  is only conditional and	the  performance  iscompleted  only	 when the monies are paid  and	the  railwayreceipts delivered.  Accordingly,	where, as in the present case, the  payment.was received by a banker from a buyer in a Part A or C Stateagainst delivery of a railway receipt in favour of self	 forgoods sent by the respondents, the contract must be taken tohave been per-. formed in Part A or C States and the  incomearising out of these transactions must be held to have	beenreceived there. (3) The  principles governing the despatch of	articles  byValue Payable Post system are:-  (i)	  that the post office is an agent of the seller forthe recovery of price against delivery of goods; Mothi	Rungaya Chetty V. The Secretary of State for  India,(1904) I.L.R. 28 Mad. 213, approved. (ii)	  that	the  seller retains control over  the  goodsright  up  to  the time goods are  delivered  to  the  buyeragainst payment and403the  contract  falls under s. 25(1) of the  Indian  Sale  ofGoods Act, 1930;  Mirabita  v. Imperial Ottomon Bank, (1878) 3 Ex.   D.	 164and The Parchim, [1918] A.C. 57, referred to.  (iii)	  that even if the post office were considered to bea  bailee  of  goods  for transmission	to  the	 buyer,	 thecontract would fall under s. 25 of the Indian Sale of  GoodsAct  and  the  appropriation is conditional  and  until	 thecondition  is fulfilled the property in the goods  does	 notpass; and,  (iv)	  that	it is the duty of the bailee to	 dispose  ofthe  goods in accordance with the directions of	 the  bailorwhich in this case was to deliver the goods against payment.Hence the bailee received the price at the place of deliveryof goods and did so on behalf of the bailor. Consequently, in the present case, in respect of goods sentby  Value Payable Post to a Part A or C State the price	 wasreceived there and not at Ratlam.Commissioner of Income-tax v. Ogale Glass Works Ltd., [1955]1 S.C.R. 185 and The Badische Anilin Und Soda Fabrik v.	 TheBasle Chemical Works, [1898] A.C. 200, distinguished.JUDGMENT:   CIVIL  APPELLATE  JURISDICTION :Civil Appeal No.  373  of1957.Appeal	from  the judgment and decree  dated  September	 20,1955,  of the former Madhya Bharat High Court at  Indore  inCivil Misc.  Case No. 40 of 1954. ,  C. K.	  Daphtary,  Solicitor-General	of  India,   K.	  N.Rajagopal  Sastri,  R.	H.  Dhebar and	D.  Gupta,  for	 theappellant. S. S. Shukla, for the respondent.   1959.   May 20.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyKAPUR  J.-This appeal on a certificate by the High Court  isbrought	 against  the judgment of the High Court  of  MadhyaBharat	in a Reference by the Income-tax Appellate  Tribunalunder s. 66(1) of the Income-tax Act.  The appellant is	 theCommissioner of Income-tax and the respondents are a firm ofmanufacturers of perfumery and hair oils at Ratlam in MadhyaBharat	and their goods are sold throughout India.   At	 therelevant time Madhya Bharat was a Part B State and the	solequestion for determination is where were the income, profitsand gains,404received  or  were deemed to be received and on	 that  woulddepend the rate at which the respondents would be liable  tobe assessed because of the concessional rates applicable  toPart B States.  The  facts  lie in a short compass.	The  respondents,  aregistered firm, were assessed for the assessment year 1950-51,  at the rate or rates applicable to income, profits	 andgains  arising or accruing in Part A States.  The course  oftheir  business	 was this: they sent out agents	 to  variousparts  of India.  They canvassed orders and  sometimes	tookadvance	 payments  in full or in part  and  after  deductingtheir  expenses, remitted the balance to the respondents  atRatlam through Bank drafts etc.	 The goods ordered were sentto  the	 customers either by V. P. P. or by  rail.   In	 thelatter case the Railway Receipts in favour of self were sentthrough	 a  Bank deliverable against payment of	 the  DemandDraft  drawn  upon  the buyers and  sent  with	the  RailwayReceipts.  This price when received by the Bank was sent  bythe Bank by means of Bank Draft to the respondents at Ratlamwho sent them for being cashed and credited to their accountat Bombay.  The  Income-tax  Officer held that the major	quantity  ofgoods  was supplied to the customers in what was Part A &  CStates	either by V. P. P. or by rail, the Railway  Receiptsbeing in favour of the respondents and payment was  receivedas stated above. The  assessees' banker was the Bank of India Ltd.,  Bombay,and  the  sale proceeds were, according	 to  the  Income-taxOfficer,  mainly realised through this Bank.  He  held	thatthe  sales  were  effected  in Part A &	 C  States  and	 thepayments  were also received there.  He therefore  made	 theassessment  on an estimated profit of Rs. 1,60,340 on  salesof  Rs. 5,09,424 without allowing any rebate on	 account  ofconcessional  rates applicable to Part B States.  On  appealthe  Appellate	Asstt.	Commissioner reduced  the  estimatedprofit by Rs. 20,000.  The Income-tax Appellate Tribunal  onfurther	 appeal	 reduced the total income from Part  A	&  CStates	to Rs. 2,85,376.  It found that the income  receivedthrough the Post Office, i.e., by V.P.P.405was Rs. 1,23,710 and that received in respect of goods	sentby  rail  and realized by the Bank drafts was  Rs.  2,85,376making	a  total  of Rs. 4,21,955.  It also  held  that	 theadvances received with orders were income, profits and gainsreceived  at  Ratlam  and  not in Part	A  &  C	 States	 andsimilarly the price of goods sent by V. P. P. was also moneyreceived at Ratlam.  In regard to the price received by Bankdrafts	it held that they were received at Ratlam  but	weresent to the assessee's banker in Bombay for being cashed andtherefore they must be taken to have been received in a PartA State.  This amount was Rs. 2,85,376.	 The Tribunal  afterreferring  to  the  decision of the  Bombay  High  Court  inKirloskar  Bros.  Ltd. v. The Commissioner of  Income-tax(1)said :-	      "	 The  facts,  however,	in  this  case	 are	      entirely	different.   It	 appears  from	 the	      printed  advice  sent by the assessee  to	 its	      bankers in every case that the bankers are  to			    hand  over	the goods against 'payment  of	the	      enclosed	demand	draft'.	 It is	not  a	case	      where   the   assessee   gives   unconditional	      discharge on the receipt of either a cheque or	      a	 bank  draft.  We agree with  the  Appellate	      Assistant	 Commissioner that sale proceeds  to	      the  extent of Rs. 2,85,376 were	received  at	      Bombay."Both  the  assessees  and the  Commissioner  applied  for  areference  -to the High Court under s. 66(1) of the  Income-tax Act and following two questions were referred :-	      Q.1  "Whether the receipt of sale proceeds  at	      Ratlam (which included the assessee's profits)	      in  respect of goods sent by the	assessee  to	      customers	 in Part A or C States by V.  P.  P.	      amounted	to  receipts of income,	 profits  or	      gains at Ratlam in Part	B States?"	      Q.    2. " Whether the bank drafts payable  in	      Part A or	 C States but received at Ratlam and	      encashed	through	 the assessee's	 bankers  at	      Bombay constituted receipts in Part A State ?"The  High Court answered both these questions in  favour  ofthe assessees but gave a certificate and the(1)  [1952] 21 I.T.R. 82.406appeal	is therefore brought by the Commissioner of  Income-tax.Apart  from the sales which were deemed to have taken  placein  Ratlam itself the goods were, as stated above,  suppliedto the customers in one of the following two ways. The goodswere  either sent from Ratlam through the post office by  V.P.  P. or they were sent from there by rail and the  RailwayReceipts in favour of self were sent through a Bank with thedirection  that	 the goods were to be  handed  over  against'payment of the enclosed demand draft'.We  Shall first deal with that part in which the goods	weresent by post under the V. P. P. system.	 The purpose of thissystem	is  given in Rule 133 of the Post Offices  guide  asunder:-	      " The V. P. P. system is designed to meet	 the	      requirements  of persons who wish to  pay	 for	      articles	sent  to  them at the  time  of	 the	      receipt  of  the articles or of  the  bill  or	      railway  receipt relating to them and also  to	      meet  the	 requirements  of  the	traders	 and	      others who wish to recover through the  agency	      of  the  post office, the	 value	of  articles	      supplied by them.	 "In  the	 case  of delivery of goods by V. P. P.	 it  is	 im-material  whether the buyer directs the goods to be sent  byV. P. P. or the seller does so on his own accord because thegoods handed over to the Post Office by the seller can	onlybe  delivered to the buyer against payment and this  paymentis received for and on behalf of the seller.  The buyer doesnot  pay till the goods are received by him and once he	 haspaid  -the price it is the Post Office that  is	 responsiblefor payment of the money received by it to the seller.	 Thebuyer  has  no longer any responsibility in  regard  to	 it.Therefore  a  payment to the Post Office is payment  to	 theseller	and at the place where the goods are  delivered	 andpayment is made.  Further before the goods are delivered  tothe buyer the seller has under the V. P. P. Rules the  powerto  direct  the	 Post Office to make  the  delivery  to	 theaddressee  free or to deliver against a sum  different	fromthat  originally  specified.  This would negative  the	PostOffice being an agent of the buyer.  This shows that407whatever  be the jural relationship between the	 seller	 andthe post office in respect of carriage of goods sent by	 theseller under the V. P. P. system it becomes an agent of	 theseller	for  the recovery of the price and if  it  fails  torecover	 the  price and delivers the goods it is  liable  indamages to the seller: Mothi Rungaya Chetty v.	  TheSecretary of State for India (1).Under  the V. P. P. system the seller retains  control	overthe  goods right up to the time the goods are  delivered  tothe  buyer  against  payment  of  price	 and  therefore	 thecontract would fall under s. 25 of the Indian Sale of  GoodsAct which provides:-	      Section  25(1).  " Where there is	 a  contract	      for the sale of specific goods or where  goods	      are subsequently appropriated to the contract,	      the  seller may, by the terms of the  contract	      or   appropriation,  reserve  the	  right	  of	      disposal of the goods until certain conditions	      are fulfilled.  In such case,  notwithstanding	      the delivery of the goods to a buyer, or to  a	      carrier  or  other bailee for the	 purpose  of	      transmission to the buyer, the property in the	      goods  does  not pass to the buyer  until	 the	      conditions   imposed   by	  the	seller	 are	      fulfilled."The  principle then is this that if the seller when  sendingthe articles which he intends to deliver under the  contractdoes so, with the direction that the articles are not to  bedelivered  to the purchaser till the payment of	 price,	 theappropriation is not absolute but conditional and until	 theprice is paid the property in the goods does not pass to thepurchaser.   Mirabita v. Imperial Ottomon Bank (2 )  at	 pp.172-173	 (Cotton,  L.J.). See also The Parchim (3 )  at	 pp.170-171 (Per Lord Parker).  And the goods pass at the  placewhere the price is paid, i.e., which in the present case wasin  an	A or C State.  Thus the price was  received  by	 theseller in A or C State.But  it was submitted on behalf of the respondents  that  tothe present case the judgment of this Court in	Commissionerof  Income-tax v. Ogale Glass Works Ltd.(4) applies.   Therethe assessee was a company which was(1) (1904) I.L.R. 28 Mad. 213,	(2)	(1878)	3  Ex.	  D.164.(3)  [1918] A. C. 1157.	      (4)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 185.408carrying  on  business in an Indian State  (outside  BritishIndia) and its liability to Indian Income-tax depended	uponits receipt of money within British India.  The assessee hadto be paid for goods supplied to the Government of India andat  his	 request  the Government of  India  agreed  to	makepayments  by cheques which were drawn in Delhi on  a  BombayBank  and were posted in Delhi and received by the  assesseein  the Indian State.  It was held that the Post Office	 wasthe  agent of the assessee.  The principle of that case	 hasno application to the facts of the present case.  That	casedid not deal with sale of goods or receipt of price  againstdelivery  of goods or the place where the price of goods  isreceived  by  the seller.  Reference was also  made  by	 therespondents' counsel to a judgment of the House of Lords  inThe  Badische Anilin Und Soda Fabrik v. The  Basle  ChemicalWorks  (1).  In that case a trader in England ordered  goodsfrom  a	 manufacturer in Switzerland to be sent by  post  toEngland.    The	 manufacturer  addressed  the  goods  to   aforwarding agent who in turn addressed them to the trader inEngland and delivered them to the Swiss Post Office by	whomthey  were forwarded to England.  The goods were  such	thatthey  invaded an invention protected by an  English  patent.It  was	 held  that the contract of sale  was  completed  bydelivery  to the post office in Switzerland and as the	postoffice was the agent of the buyer and not of the vendor	 thevendor	could not be said to have contravened the  inventionwithin the ambit of the patent and that the patentee had  noright  of action against the vendor for an  infringement  ofthe patent.  In that case also there was no question of	 theSwiss  manufacturer keeping control over the goods till	 theprice  was paid nor of any conditional delivery to the	postoffice	as  in the present case and besides that was  not  acase  dealing with the passing of the ownership in goods  orthe  appropriation  of	goods to the  contract	of  sale  bydelivery to a carrier.  The  argument raised by counsel for respondents  was	thatthe  respondents delivered the goods to the Post  Office  atthe instance of the buyer and that the Post(1)  [1898] A.C. 200.409Office	acted  merely  as  a  bailee  for  the	purpose	  oftransmission  to  the  buyer.  But even as  such  bailee  itcannot	act  against  the instructions	of  the	 bailor	 anddeliver the goods to the buyer without receiving their priceand  when  he does recover he recovers it on behalf  of	 thebailor.	  Even a bailment for transmission would fall  unders.  25	of  the	 Sale  of Goods Act  and  there	 is  only  aconditional appropriation and until the condition imposed isfulfilled the goods do not pass.  Under s. 148 of the IndianContract  Act  a   bailment ' is delivery of  goods  by	 oneperson to another upon a contract that they shall, when	 thepurpose is accomplished be returned or otherwise disposed ofaccording  to the directions of the person delivering  them.A  bailee's  duty  therefore  is  to  deal  with  the  goodsaccording  to  the  directions	of the	bailor	and  if	 thedirection in the present case was that the goods were to  bedelivered  to  the buyer on payment then  the  bailee  wouldreceive the price on behalf of the seller at the place wherethe goods were delivered to the buyer.Thus the principle governing a despatch of articles by V. P.P.  is that the appropriation is conditional and goods	onlypass  when  the condition is fulfilled, i.e., the  price  ispaid against delivery.	The Post Office is an agent for	 theseller and receives the price from the buyer at the place ofdelivery for transmission to the seller.  The income in	 thepresent	 case  was therefore received in Part A	 or  Part  CStates and not in Ratlam.  In our opinion, the answer to thefirst	question   should  have	 been  in  favour   of	 theCommissioner.	It should have been held that the income  inrespect of goods sent by V. P. P. was received in Part A andC States and not in a Part B State.The  next question is unfortunately not properly framed	 andtherefore  it  is  necessary to reframe it as  was  done  inNarain Swadeshi Weaving Mills v. The Commissioner of  ExcessProfits	 Tax  (1).  The proper question that arises  on	 thefacts  is: " Whether on the facts and circumstances of	thiscase the payment received from a buyer by a banker in Part Aor C(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 952.52410States against delivery of Railway Receipt for goods sent bythe seller is payment in these States or in Ratlam which wasa  Part	 B State ". We have already set out  the  course  ofbusiness  in regard to the second mode of supply  of  goods,i.e.,  goods were sent by rail and the Railway	Receipts  infavour	of self were sent through a Bank with the  directionthat  they  were to be delivered against payment  of  demanddrafts drawn and sent along with the Railway Receipts.	 Nowin  this case as in the case of goods sent by V. P.  P.	 theRailway Receipts in favour of self could not be delivered tothe buyer till the money was paid and although the goods hadbeen  handed over to a common carrier the  appropriation  tothe  contract was only conditional and the  performance	 wascompleted  only	 when the monies were paid and	the  RailwayReceipts  delivered.  These contracts also must be taken  tohave been performed in Part A or C States and the price paidto  the Bank as agent of the seller at the place of  paymentand  delivery of Railway Receipts.  The income, profits	 andgains  were  therefore received in these States and  not  atRatlam.	  This	question should also have been	answered  infavour of the Commissioner and the income, profits and gainsarising out of these transactions must be held to have	beenreceived by respondents in Part A or C States.In both the cases the respondents would not be entitled to aconcessional rate of taxation applicable to Part B States.The  appeal is therefore allowed.  The respondents will	 paythe  costs  of the appellant of this Court and of  the	HighCourt.					   Appeal allowed.411