PETITIONER:THE PATNA ELECTRIC SUPPLY CO., LTD.,PATNA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE PATNA ELECTRIC SUPPLY WORKERS'UNIONDATE OF JUDGMENT:23/04/1959BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1035		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 761 CITATOR INFO : F	    1959 SC1294	 (1,4) F	    1961 SC 867	 (6,33) R	    1962 SC 486	 (15) RF	    1962 SC1340	 (8) RF	    1972 SC1234	 (19)ACT:Industrial Dispute-Housing facilities for industrial labour-Award based on Bihar Government Scheme-Validity.HEADNOTE:One  of	 the  items in dispute referred	 to  the  IndustrialTribunal  for adjudication, which was the subject matter  ofthis  appeal,  related to the demand of the  Workers'  Unionthat  the  appellant company must provide  quarters  to	 itsemployees  in  terms  of the  Bihar  Government	 Scheme	 andundertake immediate construction for that purpose.  The caseof  the Company was that the State and not the employer	 wasprimarily   responsible	 for  providing	 quarters   to	 theemployees and, in any event, it was not financially possiblefor  the  appellant  to undertake the  task.   The  Tribunalupheld	the Union's claim and directed the company to  startconstruction  of at least 15 quarters, as specified  by	 theGovernment scheme, within a year.  The Labour Appellate Tri-bunal,	on  appeal,  held that	the  Government	 scheme	 wasbinding on the company and upheld the award.The  scheme, on which the award was based, was one  preparedby  the	 Industrial Housing sub-Committee appointed  by	 theGovernment  of	Bihar and sanctioned by	 the  Government  asrecommended by the Bihar Central (Standing) Labour  AdvisoryBoard.	 It imposed on the employers the responsibility	 forhousing	  industrial  labour  and  provided  for   financialassistance  to the employers by the State Government to	 theextent	Of  50%	 of 'the capital required, by  way  of	loanrepayable in 25 annual instalments, recoverable, on default,from the properties mortgaged for the loan or the assets  ofthe  debtor.  The scheme prescribed the terms on  which	 thequarters  were to be let out to the employees and  specifiedtheir size.It was contended on behalf of the appellant that, the schemewas not obligatory and could not impose a term of employmentfor  the  workmen.   For the Union it was  argued  that	 thescheme	had materially altered the rule, followed by  indus-trial  adjudication  in such cases, so far as the  State  ofBihar  was concerned and had imposed a moral  obligation  onthe  appellant.	  Neither the Industrial  Tribunal  nor	 theLabour	Appellate  Tribunal in appeal,	took  the  financialposition  of the company into consideration where they	heldthat the Scheme did impose a96762moral  obligation on the appellant to provide  quarters	 forits   employees,   which  was  enforceable   in	  industrialadjudication.Held, that the scheme sanctioned by the Bihar Government wasmerely	of  a  recommendatory nature and  since	 it  had  nostatutory  force  it  could  not provide  a  basis  for	 thedirection  made by the award.  Its language showed  that  itwas vague and not intended to be acted upon and so it  couldnot  have the effect of introducing a term of employment  asbetween the employer and the workmen.Although there could be no doubt that, Industrial  Tribunalshad  generally	the power and jurisdiction, apart  from	 anyscheme	or  agreement between the  parties,  in	 appropriatecases,	to  impose new obligations on the employers  in	 theinterest  of social justice and for securing peace  and	 co-operation between the employer and the workmen, the award inappeal	could  not  be justified on  the  merits  under	 theprevailing  condition  of the industrial  evolution  in	 thecountry.Western	 India	Automobile  Association	 v.  The  IndustrialTribunal,  Bombay,  A.I.R. 1949 F.C. III,  The	Bharat	BankLtd.,  Delhi  v.  The -Employees of the	 Bharat	 Bank  Ltd.,Delhi,	[1950]	S.C.R.	459 and Rohtas	Industries  Ltd.  v.Brijnandan Pandey, [1956] S.C.R. 800, referred to.It was the duty of Industrial Tribunals to take into  consi-deration the interests of national economy and progress	 andthey were entirely right in taking the view, which they	 hadconsistently  done,  that  it would be	inexpedient  in	 thepresent financial condition of the industries in the countryto  impose  the	 additional  burden  of	 providing   housingfacilities   on	  them	 which	 should	  be   the   primaryresponsibility of the State.Eastern	 Plywood Manufacturing Co., Ltd. v.  Their  Workers,[1949]	L.L.J.	291,  Mohomad  Rai  Akbarali  Khan  v.	 TheAssociated   Cement  Companies	Ltd.,  [1953]  L.A.C.	677,SamastipuR Central Sugar Co., Ltd. v. Their Workmen,  [1955]2  L.L.J. 727 and M/s. National Carbon Co. (India)  Ltd.  v.National  Carbon Co. Mazdoor Union, Calcutta, [1956]  L.A.C.660, approved.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 227 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJanuary 31, 1956, of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India,Calcutta, in Appeals Nos.  Cal. 36 and 38 of 1953.M.C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India and Naunit Lal,for the appellant.P. K. Chatterjee, for tile respondents.1959 April 23.	The Judgment of the Court was delivered by763GAJENDRAGADKAR,	 J.-This appeal by special leave arises	 outof  an industrial dispute between the Patna Electric  SupplyCo., Ltd., (hereafter called the appellant) and its  workmenrepresented  by	 the Patna Electric  Supply  Workers'  Union(hereafter  called  the	 respondent).  The  appellant  is  apublic	company incorporated under the Indian Companies	 Actand has its registered office at Patna.	 It is an industrialestablishment  engaged	solely in  public  utility  service,namely,,  the supply of electricity for the requirements  ofthe  public  and is a licensee under the provisions  of	 theElectric Supply Act, 1948 (54 of 1948).	 On March 29,  1952,the Government of Bihar, by a notification issued under s. 7read with s. 10(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947	 (14of 1947) (hereafter called the Act) referred twelve items ofdispute	  for  adjudication  to	 the   Industrial   Tribunalconsisting  of Mr. H. K. Chaudhuri as the sole member.	 Outof the said items the present appeal is concerned with	onlyone  ;	and it relates to " the housing	 facilities  to	 theworkmen	 and principle of allotment of quarters to  them  ".The  respondent had put forward a demand that the  appellantshould provide houses to its employees and should  undertakethe construction of quarters immediately in that belie.	 Therespondent's  case  was	 that the  appellant  was  bound  toprovide	 quarters to its employees and let out the  same  tothem   according  to  the  Bihar  Government  scheme.	 Theappellant denied its liability to make any housing provisionfor  its  employees  and that gave rise	 to  the  industrialdispute.The  appellant	urged before the tribunal that	the  housingfacilities  and	 allotment of quarters to  workmen  was	 theprimary responsibility of the State and not of the employer;and  it	 alleged that in any event it  was  financially	 notpossible  for  the  appellant to undertake  the	 task.	 Theappellant had also contended that it had to function  withinthe  limits prescribed by the Electricity Supply Act,  1948,and  that the relevant provisions of the said Act would	 notpermit	the appellant to undertake any expenditure  to	meetthe respondent's demand.On March 9, 1953, the tribunal upheld the respondent's claimand by its award it directed the appellant764to  start construction of at least 15 quarters according  tothe specifications laid down in the Government scheme withinone year from the date of the publication of the award.This  part  of	the award was challenged  by  the  appellantbefore	the  Labour Appellate Tribunal;	 but  the  appellatetribunal  was not impressed by the appellant's pleas and  soit dismissed the appeal on January 31, 1956.  It agreed withthe  tribunal in holding that the scheme sanctioned  by	 theBihar Government was binding on the appellant and it saw  nosubstance  in  the appellant's contention  that	 expenditureinvolved  in  the  construction of  the	 quarters  would  beinadmissible under the Electricity Act.The appellant then applied for, and obtained, special  leavefrom  this  Court on September 17, 1956 . That is  how	thisappeal	has come to this Court, and the only question  whichit raises for our decision is whether the ,direction  issuedby  the	 award	calling	 upon the  appellant  to  start	 theconstruction of at least 15 quarters isjustified or not.It   is	 true  that  the  appellant  has  provided   housing'facilities for some members of its staff.  It appears	that17 employees out of 183 in the Power Station, 146 out of 329in  the	 Mains Department, and 1 out of 58 in  the  General,Department  have  been provided by the appellant  with	freequarters,  whereas one employee in the Mains  Department  isgranted house allowance at 12 1/2% in lieu of a house.	 Butthis  arrangement is a matter of the appellant's choice	 andvolition;  and	it  cannot be made an  obligation  and	thusvirtually  a  term of employment; that	is  the	 appellant'scase.On  the other hand, the respondent's contention is that	 theBihar  Government scheme of industrial housing has now	beenfinalised and it imposes upon the appellant an obligation toprovide housing facilities for all its employees.  It is notseriously  disputed  by the respondent that  the  industrialadjudication  has  so far consistently held  that  providinghousing	 facilities  for industrial labour  is	the  primaryresponsibility	of the State; but the argument is  that	 thescheme formulated by the Industrial Housing Sub-Committee in765Bihar  has  materially altered the position so	far  as	 theState of Bihar is concerned.  It is this argument which	 hasbeen  accepted by the tribunals below.	They have held	thatthe  scheme  sanctioned	 by  the  Bihar	 Government  on	 therecommendation	of  the	 Industrial  Housing  Sub-Committee,though	 recommendatory	 in  character,	 imposes   a   moralobligation  on	the  employer to  provide  housing  for	 hisemployees,   and  in  industrial  adjudication	this   moralobligation can be enforced against it. It is this conclusionwhich must first be examined.It  appears that in March 1938 the Government of  Bihar	 hadset  up	 a  Committee  known as	 the  Bihar  Labour  EnquiryCommittee under the Chairmanship of Dr. Rajendra Prasad	 forthe  purpose of enquiring into the conditions of  industriallabour	in the State and for making such recommendations  asmight  appear practicable with the object of  improving	 thelevel of wages and conditions of work of industrial workers.This  Committee submitted its report to Government in  April1940.	It had suggested that housing on an  adequate  scaleshould	be made a statutory obligation of the  employer	 butthe extent to which the industry could be required to fulfilsuch  an  obligation  should  be  determined  by  the  StateGovernment  after careful investigation into  its  financialcondition.    No   action  was,	 however,  taken   on	thisrecommendation by the State Government.Subsequently  the Bihar Government appointed the  IndustrialHousing	 Sub-Committee	on the recommendation of  the  BiharCentral	 (Standing)  Labour  Advisory Board  and  this	Sub-Committee  submitted  its  report  on  December	 16,   1948,recommending  the setting up of an industrial housing  boardfor  formulating  certain  schemes  for	 housing  industrialworkers.   The	matter	was then  considered  by  the  BiharCentral	 (Standing)  Labour Advisory Board on  February	 11,1950,  and  the	 Board asked  the  Industrial  Housing	Sub-Committee  to  re-examine  the	question  further  and	makespecific  recommendations.  Accordingly the Sub.   Committeereconsidered  the matter and made its final  recommendationson  August 17, 1950.  These recommendations were  consideredby the Bihar Central766(Standing) Labour Advisory Board in September 1950 and	theywere  adopted by it with slight modifications.	This  schemewas finally sanctioned by the State Government.Under this scheme the responsibility for housing  industriallabour	is  placed on the shoulders of	the  employers.	  Tobegin with the scheme was intended to be applicable only  tofactories registered under Factories Act, 1948.	 It providesfor financial assistance by State Government to the employeron  terms and conditions specified in it.  It  appears	thatunder  para. 4 of the scheme the State Government  may	giveloan  to the employer. to the extent of 50% of	the  capitalrequired  for  industrial housing and that  the	 loan  wouldcarry  interest at 3 % per annum.  The remaining 50% of	 thecapital	 is to be provided for by the employer.	 The  amountgranted	 as a loan together with interest thereon has to  berepaid	by  the employer in 25 annual instalments  of  equalamount on the dates fixed for such repayment.  There is alsoa  default  clause  which enables the  State  Government  torecover the amount due from the properties mortgaged to	 theState  Government for the loan or from other assets  of	 theborrower.   The	 scheme prescribes the terms  on  which	 thequarters  when built should be let out to the employees	 andit  lays down the standard size and other specifications  ofthe  quarters.	 The respondent's contention is	 that  sincethis  scheme has been sanctioned by the State Government  itimposes	 on  the  employers in the State of  Bihar  a  moralobligation  to implement it and industrial adjudication	 cangive effect to the scheme by issuing appropriate  directionsby  their awards; this contention has been accepted  by	 thetribunals below.We do not think that the scheme in question can justify	 thedirection  issued by the, award under appeal.  It  is  clearthat though the original Bihar Labour Enquiry Committee	 hadrecommended  to	 the  State Government that  housing  on  anadequate scale should be made a statutory obligation of	 theemployer, the State Government has so far taken no action onthis recommendation . It is common ground that the State767Legislature  has  passed no legislation	 imposing  statutoryobligation  on	the employer to provide for  housing  on  anadequate scale to his employees.  The scheme in question  onwhich  the  respondent relies has no  statutory	 force.	  Itmerely	approves  of the recommendations made by  the  BiharCentral	 (Standing  Labour  Advisory  Board  and  the	onlyliability  which  the  State  Government  has  purported  toundertake  by sanctioning the scheme is to agree  to  affordpartial	 Gaj  financial assistance to the employers  on	 theterms  and conditions specified in it.	In other  words,  ifany industrial employer wants to provide housing  facilitiesfor  his  employees  he may be able  to	 ask  for  financialassistance   from  the	State  Government  and	 the   StateGovernment may afford such assistance under the scheme;	 butthat is a very different matter.  It may be conceded that ina large majority of cases industrial labour is very badly inneed of, housing accommodation, and it would, therefore,  bedesirable that such facilities should be afforded to  laboureither	by  the State or if possible by the employer  or  byboth of them acting together in co-operation; but we do	 notsee how the present scheme which no doubt is laudable in itsobject	can  afford any valid basis for	 issuing  directionsagainst the appellant calling upon it to construct  quartersfor its workmen as the award purports to do.It  appears that both the tribunals assumed that the  schemein  question  had  been	 adopted with  the  consent  of	 theappellant  and as such the appellant was bound by it.	Thisassumption  is	clearly	 unjustified.	No  partner  of	 theappellant was a member of the Committee and Mr. Chandra' theappellant's  Labour Adviser was not its member in  1950	 butbecame	one  in 1952.  Mr. Chandra is a	 Labour	 Adviser  ofother  companies  as well and so it would  be  difficult  toaccept	the argument that even after he became a  member  in1952 he could represent the appellant in the legal sense  soas to bind it by his consent; but apart from this aspect  ofthe  matter, even Mr. Chandra was not a member in 1950	whenthe   scheme   was   adopted.	It   is	  true	 that	somerepresentatives	 of industrial employers were  nominated  bythe State Government as members768of the Committee ; but that would not justify the assumptionthat  the scheme adopted by the Committee and sanctioned  bythe   Government  is  binding  on  the	appellant.   It	  issignificant  that even the scheme lays down  that  providinghousing	 accommodation to the lowest paid workers is  mainlythe  responsibility  of	 the employers and  that  the  StateGovernment could only help the employers by giving them	 aidin  the . form of loan and in the matter of  acquisition  ofland.  The scheme is thus merely recommendatory and the	 useof the word " mainly " shows that it is vague and cannot be,and  was not expected to be, enforced as it stands.   It  isclear  that  tribunals cannot call upon	 the  Government  toadvance	 a loan to the employers whenever they	pass  awardscalling	 upon  the employers to start  the  construction  ofquarters  for their employees; so that if  Government  takestime  to  sanction the required loan, or, owing to  its	 owndifficulties,  it  is unable to sanction  it,  the  employerwould be exposed to the risk of the penalties arising out ofhis  failure to comply with the award; and that only  servesto  emphasise  that  the problem - must be  tackled  by	 theemployers and the State in co-operation with each other	 andcannot at present at least be treated as a subject-matter ofan  award.  We are, therefore, satisfied that the scheme  inquestion  which is the sole basis for the award cannot	havethe  effect of introducing a term of employment between	 theappellant and its workmen in regard to housing facilities.We  may incidentally point out that if the present award  isupheld it would give rise to similar demands from  employeesin other allied or similar industries in Bihar; and if	suchdemands	 are upheld it would inevitably impose a very  largeburden	on the employers and that may materially affect	 theindustrial progress of the State of Bihar.  It is  necessaryto  emphasise  that, in considering the	 claims	 of  workmensympathetically	 on  the  ground  of  social  and   economicjustice,  industrial  adjudication has to bear in  mind	 theinterests  of  national	 economy  and  progress	 which	 arerelevant  and material.	 We must, therefore, hold  that	 theaward under appeal cannot be sustained on the769basis of the scheme sanctioned by the Bihar Government.It  has,  however,  been urged before us on  behalf  of	 therespondent  that,  apart  from the  scheme,  the  industrialtribunal has jurisdiction to make an award calling upon	 theappellant   to	 provide  housing  accommodation   for	 itsemployees.    The  argument  is	 that,	 unlike	  commercialarbitration,  industrial  arbitration may, and	often  does,involve	 the making of a new contract or the  imposition  ofnew  obligations on the employer in the interests of  socialjustice;  and having regard to the fact that  the  employeesare very badly in need of housing accommodation it was	opento  the	 tribunal in the present case to have  directed	 theappellant  to  make  a.	 beginning  in	that  direction	  byproviding  housing accommodation to some of  its  employees.In  support of this argument the respondent has relied	uponthe   oft-quoted  observation  of  Ludwig  Teller   that   "Industrial  arbitration	 may  involve the  extension  of  anexisting  agreement  or	 the making of a  new  one,  or,  ingeneral, the creation of new obligations or modification  ofold  ones  while commercial arbitration	 generally  concernsitself	with  interpretation  of  existing  obligations	 anddisputes relating to existing agreements "(1).	There is  nodoubt that in appropriate cases industrial adjudication	 mayimpose	new obligations on the employer in the	interest  ofsocial	justice	 and with the object of securing  peace	 andharmony	 between the employer and his workmen and  fall	 co-operation  between them.  This view about  the	jurisdictionand power of the industrial tribunals has been	consistentlyrecognised in this country since the decision of the FederalCourt  in  Western  India  Automobile  Association  v.	 TheIndustrial Tribunal, Bombay (2).  In that case the  employerhad  challenged the jurisdiction of the industrial  tribunalto  direct  the reinstatement of his employees; and  it	 wasurged  that  such  a direction was  contrary  to  the  knownprinciples which govern the(1)  Ludwig   Teller's	"  Labour  Disputes   &	  CollectiveBargaining ", Vol.  1, P. 536.(2)  A.I.R. 1949 F.C. III, 120.97770relationship between master and servant and was outside	 thejurisdiction of the tribunal.  This contention was negativedby  the Federal Court, and it was observed  that  industrialadjudication  does  not mean adjudication according  to	 thestrict	law  of	 master and servant.  "	 The  award  of	 thetribunal ", observed Mahajan, J., in delivering the judgmentof the Court, " may contain provisions for the settlement ofa  dispute  which no Court could order if it  was  bound  byordinary  law, but tile tribunal is not fettered in any	 wayby  these  limitations".   The	same  view  has	 been	moreemphatically expressed by Mukherjea, J., in The Bharat	BankLtd., Delhi v. The Employees of the Bharat Bank Ltd.,  Delhi(1),.  " In settling the disputes between the employers	 andthe workmen ", observed the learned Judge, " the function ofthe tribunal is not confined to administration of justice inaccordance with law.  It can confer rights and privileges oneither	party  which  it considers  reasonable	and  proper,though	they  may not be within the terms  of  any  existingagreement.  It has not merely to interpret or to give effectto  the contractual rights and obligations of  the  parties.It can create new rights and obligations between them  whichit  considers essential for keeping industrial peace  ".  InRohtas	Industries Ltd. v. Brijnandan Pandey Mr. Justice  S.K.  Das has expressed the same conclusion when	he  observedthat " a court of law proceeds on the footing that no  powerexists	in the courts to make contracts for people; and	 theparties	 must  make their own contracts.  The  courts  reachtheir  limit of power when they enforce contracts which	 theparties	 have  made.   An  Industrial  Tribunal	 is  not  sofettered and may create 'new obligations or modify contractsin the interests of industrial peace, to protect  legitimatetrade  union  activities and to prevent unfair	practice  orvictimisation  ".  Thus	 there	can  be	 no  doubt  that  anindustrial tribunal has jurisdiction to make a proper and  areasonable  order  in any industrial dispute ; and  in	thatsense  the respondent may be right when it contends that  itwas  within  the  competence  of  the  tribunals  below	  toentertain its(1)  [1950] S.C.R 459, 5I3.(2) [1956] S.C.R. 800, 810.771grievance  about  housing  accommodation  and  to  give	  itappropriate relief in that behalf.But assuming that the tribunal had jurisdiction to entertainthe dispute, the question still remains whether, apart	fromthe  agreement	on  which the  tribunals  have	based  theirdecision, the award under appeal can be justified on generalgrounds.   In our opinion, under the present conditions	 theanswer to this question has to be in favour of the appellantand  against  the  respondent,	Industrial  tribunals	haveconsistently  taken the view that housing  accommodation  ofindustrial labour is the primary responsibility of the State;  and there has also been no difference of opinion  on	 thepoint  that  in	 the  present  economic	 condition  of	 ourindustries  it	would  be  inexpedient	to  impose  on	 theemployers  the obligation to provide  housing  accommodationfor  their  employees.	Besides a scheme of  wages  properlyfixed  necessarily  takes into account	house  rent  amongstother relevant facts ; and under a proper scheme of dearnessallowance  adjustments can be made when necessary from	timeto  time so as to take into account an appreciable  rise  inthe rents which industrial labour may have to pay.  That  iswhy usually tribunals do not entertain employees' claim	 forhousing	 and do not even allow a separate demand  for  houseallowance as such.  This position is not disputed before  usby the respondent.We  may,  however, refer to a few typical decisions  of	 theIndustrial  Tribunals  on this point.	In  Eastern  PlywoodManufacturing	Co.,  Ltd.,  And  Their	 Workers   (1)	 theIndustrial Tribunal rejected the workmen's claim for housingaccommodation or in the alternative for house rent allowanceof Rs. 10 per month on the ground that., the obligation	 forhousing	 labour	 in  an	 urban area is	not  really  on	 theemployer,  and that the tribunal had already  considered  inthe  issues  on basic pay and dearness allowance as  to	 howmuch the company should be directed to pay in emoluments  toits  workmen.	The tribunal thought that it  would  not  bereasonable to saddle the company with any further  financialcommitments in the shape of house rent allowance.(1)  [1949] L.L.J. 291.772In  Mahomad  Rai  Akbarali Khan	 v.  The  Associated  CementCompanies  Ltd.	 (1),  the  Labour  Appellate  Tribunal	 hasconsidered  this  problem.  It was urged  by  the  employeesbefore	the  appellate tribunal that  the  employers  shouldeither provide quarters or pay house rent allowance, whereasthe  company contended that it was not the function  of	 themanagement to provide accommodation for its employees.	 Theappellate   tribunal,  however,	 took  the  view  that	 theemployers'   contention	 should	 be  accepted	subject	  toconsiderable   qualifications  in  certain  cases;  and	  itproceeded  to consider the special features of	the  problempresented by the employers' factory at Sevalia.	 Sevalia wasa village until the employer went there to start its factorywhich needed the services of a large contingent of  workers."  When	 an  industrial concern like this  ",  observed	 theappellate  tribunal, " bursts upon a rural area there  is  avery  considerable  impact on its economy.  The	 inhabitantsnearby	join  the factory as well as  those  living  furtheraway;  there is also an influx of persons from	outside;  inshort  it  means  that	accommodation  becomes	scarce,	 andexpensive; and if a workman has to go further afield for hisaccommodation he is put to considerable physical fatigue andinconvenience.	 In such circumstances it has not  been	 thepolicy	of  the tribunals to ignore a claim for	 house	rentallowance   ".	"  After  making  these	 observations,	 theappellate  tribunal  proceeded	to  readjust  the   dearnessallowance payable to the employees after taking into accountthe  increased	house rent which they had to pay  for  theirhousing	  accommodation	 in  Sevalia  ;	 and   having	thusreadjusted  the dearness allowance the	appellate,  tribunalheld  that no separate order as to house rent allowance	 wasnecessary.   It	 appears that in that  case  the  industrialtribunal had taken the view that the problem was not  likelyto  be	solved	by  granting house  rent  allowance  to	 theemployees and that the only practical course, therefore, wasthat the company should either help the workers in  buildingtheir  houses  or that the company itself  should  constructquarters.  That is why it bad rejected the(1)  [1953] L.A.C. 677.773employees'   demand  for  house	 rent  allowance   but	 hadrecommended to the concern to undertake building operations.The  Labour Appellate Tribunal reversed this conclusion	 andtook a more practical and a wiser course by readjusting	 thedearness  allowance  so as to grant adequate relief  to	 theemployees  in that behalf.  It would thus be seen that	evenwhere  the  employer  bad started its  factory	at  a  smallvillage	 like Sevalia the appellate tribunal did not  acceptthe employees' demand for housing accommodation and did	 notalso  think it proper to ask the employer to pay to its	 em-ployees any separate special house rent allowance.In Samastipur Central Sugar Co., Ltd., And Their Workmen (1)the Labour Appellate Tribunal bad occasion to consider	thisquestion  once	again.	In dealing with the  merits  of	 theproblem, it accepted the decision of the Appellate  Tribunalin  Mahomad Rai Akbarali Khan v. The Associated	 Cement	 Co.-Ltd.("), and observed that " where the basic wage and dear-ness  allowance are consolidated, house rent at	 the  normaltime  and the subsequent rise must be presumed to have	beentaken  into account when the total consolidated	 amount	 wasfixed ".The same view was taken by the Labour Appellate Tribunal  inMessrs.	 National Carbon Co. (India) Ltd. v. National CarbonCo., Mazdoor Union, Calcutta (3).  In that case the tribunalhad  directed  the employer to pay his	workmen	 house	rentallowance  because it had taken the view that in making	 thesaid  order  it was granting a relief lesser  than  grantingfree  quarters which the employees had claimed and that	 thelesser	was  involved  in the greater relief  and  could  begranted	 by  it.  On the evidence adduced in the  said	pro-ceedings  the Labour Appellate Tribunal did not	 agree	withthis  view.  It held that " provision 'for free quarters  byconstructing houses cannot permit of comparison with paymentof  house  rent	 allowance in money  month  after  month  todetermine  which  is greater and which is smaller  than	 therelief of pro. free quarters ".	  On this view the Labour(1) [1955] II L.L.J. 727. 730.	(2) [1953] L.A C. 677.(8)  [1956] L.A.C. 660.774Appellate Tribunal came to the conclusion that the  tribunalhad  no jurisdiction to award house rent allowance when	 thedispute	 referred  to  it for adjudication  was	 about	freequarters.It is thus clear that industrial tribunals have consistentlyrefused	 to entertain a claim for housing  accommodation  orfor  the grant of a special and separate  housing  allowanceagainst	 their employers.  That .is why in making the  awardunder appeal the tribunals below were at pains to  emphasisethe fact that the scheme sanctioned by the Bihar  Governmentmade  the position substantially different so far  as  Biharwas concerned.The  problem  of  housing industrial  labour  has  been	 thesubject-matter	of some legislative enactments.	 As  regardsthe  workers  employed	in Plantations,	 -  the	 PlantationsLabour	Act, 1951 ( 69 of 1951), provides that it  shall  bethe  duty  of every employer to construct and  maintain	 forevery  worker  and  his family residing	 in  the  plantationnecessary   housing  accommodation  subject  to	 the   otherprovisions  of	the  Act.  Housing  Boards  have  also	beenestablished in different States to tackle the larger problemof  housing in general.	 The Bombay Housing Board Act,	1948(Bom. 69 of 1948), the Mysore Labour Housing Act, 1949 (Mys.28  of	1949), the Madhya Pradesh Housing  Board  Act,	1950(Madhya	 Pradesh 43 of 1950), the Hyderabad  Labour  HousingAct,  1952  (Hyd. 36 of 1952), the Saurashtra  Housing	Act,1954  (Saurashtra  32  of 1954) and  the  U.  P.  IndustrialHousing Act, 1955 (U.  P. 32 of 1955), are attempts made  bythe  respective States 'to meet their responsibility in	 thematter of providing housing accommodation to its citizens ingeneral and to industrial labour in particular.This problem appears to have been considered by the PlanningCommission  in	its  report on the Second  Five	 Year  Plan.Chapter	 26 of the report deals with the genera. problem  ofhousing and ch. 27 deals With labour policy and	 programmes.The  discussion of the problem in these two  chapters  showsthat housing shortage can be conquered only by sustained andwell775planned	 efforts  made	by  the	 States	 and  the   industrytogether.   It	is  a  very big	 problem  and  involves	 theexpenditure of a huge amount.  Efforts are being made by theCentral Government to invite the co-operation of  industrialemployers  to  tackle this problem  with  the  progressivelyincreasing  financial  and other assistance offered  by	 theState  Governments.   But it is obvious	 that  this  problemcannot	at  present be tackled in  isolation  by  industrialtribunals in dealing with housing demands made by  employeesin  individual cases.  In the present economic condition  ofour industries it would be inexpedient to impose this  addi-tional	burden	on the employers.  Such	 an  imposition	 mayretard	the  progress  of  our	industrial  development	 andproduction  and	 thereby prejudicially affect  the  nationaleconomy.  Besides such an imposition on the employers  wouldultimately  be passed by them to the consumers and that	 mayresult in an increase in prices which is not desirable	froma  national point of view.  It is true that  the-concept  ofsocial justice is not static and may expand with the  growthand  prosperity	 of  our  industries  and  a  rise  in	 ourproduction  and national income; but so far as' the  presentstate  of  our national economy, and the  general  financialcondition  of  our  industry  are  concerned  it  would	  beundesirable  to think of introducing such an  obligation  onthe  employers today.  That is why we think  the  industrialtribunals  have very wisely refused to entertain  pleas	 forhousing	 accommodation	made by workmen from  time  to	timeagainst their employers.In the present case it is clear that the question about	 thefinancial  ability of the appellant to meet  the  additionalburden imposed by the award has not been considered at	all.In fact the Tribunals below seem to have taken the view thatsince the appellant is bound by the scheme it is immaterial,if not irrelevant, to enquire whether the appellant would beable  to meet the expenses involved in the  construction  ofquarters as directed by the award.  It is obvious that	sucha  view proceeds on purely theoretical considerations  whichhave  no  relation  to	existing  facts	 in  regard  to	 thefinancial position of the industry or the state of776national economy.  In fairness to the Tribunals we ought  toadd  that if the tribunals had not taken an  erroneous	viewabout  the  effect  of the scheme sanctioned  by  the  BiharGovernment  they would not have granted the demand  made  bythe  respondent	 for housing accommodation.  Since  we	holdthat  on the merits the award-cannot be sustained we do	 notthink  it is necessary to consider whether  the	 expenditureinvolved in the construction of quarters would be admissibleunder the relevant provisions of the Electricity Act.The result is the appeal succeeds and the award under appealis set aside.  In the circumstances of this case we think itwould be fair that the parties should bear their own costs.	Appeal allowed.