PETITIONER:TATA IRON AND STEEL CO., LIMITED,BOMBAY	Vs.RESPONDENT:S.   R. SARKAR AND OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:29/08/1960BENCH:SHAH, J.C.BENCH:SHAH, J.C.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)IMAM, SYED JAFFERSARKAR, A.K.GUPTA, K.C. DASCITATION: 1961 AIR   65		  1961 SCR  (1) 379 CITATOR INFO : R	    1962 SC1621	 (12,46,105,109,125) F	    1963 SC 548	 (9) R	    1963 SC 980	 (12) E	    1963 SC1811	 (104) R	    1966 SC 563	 (21) R	    1966 SC1216	 (9,10) F	    1967 SC1131	 (5) R	    1970 SC1281	 (5) R	    1971 SC 477	 (8) MV	    1971 SC 870	 (45) R	    1973 SC2526	 (9) F	    1975 SC 887	 (6) F	    1975 SC1142	 (7) RF	    1975 SC1208	 (28) R	    1976 SC1016	 (19,24) R	    1979 SC1160	 (15) RF	    1981 SC 446	 (6) RF	    1986 SC1760	 (17,24) R	    1992 SC1952	 (7,8)ACT:Sales  Tax-Inter-State	sales-Sale effected by	transfer  ofdocuments  of title to goods during their movement from	 oneState  to another-Appropriate State to tax  such  sale-Placewhere  sale  effected-Central  Sales Tax Act,  1956  (74  of1956), ss. 2(a), 3, 4-Constitution of India, Art. 286.HEADNOTE:The  petitioner, a limited company carrying on the  businessof manufacturing and selling iron and steel goods, with	 itsfactory at Jamshedpur in Bihar and its head Sales Office  inCalcutta in west Bengal, was served with a notice on  August12,  1959,  by	the Commercial Tax Officer  of	West  Bengaldirecting it to submit a statement of sales from  Jamshedpurfor  the  period of assessment July 1, 1957,  to  March	 31,1958, " the documents relating to which were transferred  inWest Bengal or of any other sales that may have taken  placein  West Bengal under s. 3(b) of the Central Sales Tax	Act,1956." For the same period, i.e., July 1, 1957 to March	 31,1958, of assessment the petitioner had on December 15, 1958,filed  with the Sales Tax Officer, Jamshedpur, a  return  ofinter-State  sales  made  from	Jamshedpur,  in	 which	wereincluded all sales in which movement of the goods had  takenplace  from the State of Bihar to destinations	outside	 theState, and had paid advance tax under the Central Sales	 TaxAct,  1956.   The  petitioner contended	 before	 the  TaxingOfficer	 of West Bengal, inter alia, that in so far  as	 itsinter-State  sales from Jamshedpur were concerned the  situsof such sales, as determined under s. 4(2) of the Act, wouldalways	be in the State of Bihar as the goods were in  Biharand that the State of West Bengal could not tax a sale wheregoods  were under the contract of sale moved from  Bihar  toBengal even though the documents of title to the goods	soldwere transferred in Bengal, such sales being taxable only bythe State of Bihar.  The Taxing Officer, however, taxed	 allthe sales effected by the company under S. 3(b) on the	viewthat  the sales in which the documents of title were  handedover  in Calcutta were taxable in the State of	West  Bengalbecause (1) all the sales effected in favour of West  Bengalparties satisfied the conditions prescribed by s. 3(b),	 and(2)  the  place where the documents were  delivered  by	 thecompany	 to the purchaser was the place where the  sale	 waseffected.Held,  per Sinha, C. J., Imam and Shah, jj., Sarkar and	 DasGupta, JJ., dissenting) : (1) that within cl. (b) of s. 3 ofthe49380Central	 Sales	Tax Act, 1956, are included sales  in  whichproperty  in  the goods passes during the  movement  of	 thegoods from one State to another by transfer of documents  oftitle  thereto clause (a) of S. 3 covers sales,	 other	thanthose  included in cl. (b), in which the movement  of  goodsfrom  one  State to another is the result of a	covenant  orincident of the contract of sale, and property in the  goodspasses in either State.(2)  that  sub-s. (2) of s. 4 of the Act defines what  salesor  purchases shall be deemed to take place inside  a  Stateand,  thereby, locates the place where a sale  is  effected.The  terms  of the sub-section being quite  general  providealso  for  cases where sales are effected in the  course  ofinter-State trade or commerce under s. 3 of the Act.(3)  that  the	Taxing	authorities in West  Bengal  had  toascertain, before they could order payment of tax under	 theCentral	 Sales Tax Act, whether on the materials  they	weresatisfied  (a)	that the goods at the time  of	transfer  ofdocuments of title were in movement from the State of  Biharto  the State of West Bengal, and (b) that the	place  wherethe  sale was effected was, under S. 4, cl. (2), within	 theState of West Bengal.Per  Sarkar  and Das Gupta, JJ.--A sale contemplated  by  s.3(b)  of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, is one  where	 thetransfer  of property in the goods sold takes place  by	 thetransfer of documents of title to them during their movementfrom  one State to another and is effected within the  Statein which the documents of title are transferred ; that Stateis  the " appropriate State " in respect of such  sale.	 (2)The purpose of S. 4(2) of the Act is to formulate principlesfor determining when a sale takes place " outside a State ",and  not to fix the place where a sale under S. 3(b) can  besaid to have taken effect.  The place of that sale is  fixedby cl. (ii) of the Explanation in S. 2(a).JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION : Petition No. 199 of 1959.Petition  under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forenforcement of Fundamental Rights.A.   V. Viswanatha Sastri, N. A. Palkhivala S. N. Andley, J.B.  Dadachanji,	 Rameshwar  Nath and P. L.  Vohra,  for	 thepetitioner.B.   Sen,  K. C. Mukherjee and P. K. Bose,  for	 respondentsNos. 1 and 2.Lal Narayan Sinha and S. P. Varma, for respondent No. 3.C.   K.	 Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, R.  GanapathyIyer, B. H. Dhebar and P. M. Sen for respondent No. 4.			    3811960.	August 29.  The judgment of the Court was  deliveredbySHAH  J.-By  this  petition  for  writs	 of  certiorari	 andmandamus,  the	Tata Iron and Steel Co.,  Ltd.,	 hereinafterreferred to as the-company, challenges the authority of	 theCommercial  Tax	 Officer, Lyons Range, Calcutta,  to  demandpayment	  of  Rs.  41,14,718.12	 nP.  to  the  West   BengalGovernment  as tax leviable under the Central Sales Tax	 ActNo. 74 of 1956 in respect of certain sales of steel goods.The  company has its registered office in Bombay,  its	HeadSales office in Calcutta in the State of West Bengal and itsfactories in Jamshedpur in the State of Bihar.	The  companyis registered as a " dealer " under the Bihar Sales Tax Act,and is also registered as a " dealer " in the State of	WestBengal	under  the  Central Sales Tax Act,  1956.   For	 theperiod	of assessment July 1, 1957, to March 31,  1958,	 thecompany submitted its return of taxable sales to the Commer-cial Tax Officer, Lyons Range, Calcutta, disclosing a  grosstaxable	 turnover  of Rs. 9,561-71 nP. in respect  of  salesliable to Central sales tax in the State of West Bengal.  Byhis  memorandum	 dated August 12, 1959, the  Commercial	 TaxOfficer directed the company to submit a statement of  salesfrom Jamshedpur for the period under assessment, " documentsrelating to which were transferred in West Bengal or of	 anyother  sales that may have taken place in West Bengal  unders.  3(b) of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 ". The  company,by  its	 letter dated September 30, 1959, informed  the	 TaxOfficer that the requisition for production of statement  ofsales  made  from Jamshedpur in the  course  of	 inter-Statetrade  or  commerce was without jurisdiction.	The  companycontended  that " all the sales from Jamshedpur were of	 thetype  mentioned in s. 3(a) of the Central Sales Tax Act	 andat the same time, some of them also fell within the categorymentioned  in s. 3(b) of the Act ", that even if  the  saleswere  "	 of the type mentioned in s. 3(b) of  the  Act,	 theappropriate State of the place where the sales take place orare effected alone had jurisdiction382to  assess  such sales to Central sales tax ", and  that  inrespect	 of inter-State sales from Jamshedpur, the situs  ofthe sale was always the State of Bihar as the goods were  inBihar  either at the time of the contract of sale or at	 thetime  of appropriation to the contract.	 By his order  datedOctober	 21, 1959, the Commercial Tax Officer made a "	bestjudgment   assessment	"  on  a  gross	 turnover   of	 Rs.9,00,09,561.71	nP. of interState sales and called upon	 thecompany to pay Rs. 41,14,718.12 nP. as tax under the CentralSales Tax Act.The company had, on December 15, 1958, filed with the  SalesTax  Officer, Jamshedpur, a return of interState sales	madefrom  Jamshedpur for the period July 1, 1957, to  March	 31,1958,  and a return for the same period for the	 sales	madefrom Dhanbad with the Sales Tax Officer, Dhanbad.  In  thesereturns, the company included all sales in which movement ofthe  goods  had	 taken	place from the	State  of  Bihar  todestinations  outside  that State.  The	 total	turnover  inrespect	 of  such inter-State sales as shown in	 the  returnexceeded  Rs. 26 crores and the company paid as required  bythe  Bihar  Sales Tax Act Rs. 71 lakhs odd  as	advance	 taxunder the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956.By  this  petition the company impugns the validity  of	 theorder  of  the Commercial Tax Officer and claims a  writ  ofcertiorari  quashing and setting aside the assessment  orderdated October 21, 1959, and a writ of mandamus directing theCommercial  Tax	 Officer  to refrain from  taking  steps  inenforcement or implementation of the order.Counsel for the respondents contends that the petition underArt.  32 of the Constitution is not maintainable because  nofundamental  right of the company is infringed by the  orderpassed	by the Commercial Tax Officer and the remedy of	 thecompany,  if  it feels aggrieved by the order,	is  to	seekrelief	by resorting to the machinery provided by  the	WestBengal	Sales  Tax Act.	 Counsel relies in  support  of	 hiscontention  upon the judgments of this court in Ramjilal  V.Income Tax Officer, Mohindargarh (1) and Laxmanappa(1)  [1951] S.C.R. 127.			    383Hanumantappa  Jamkhandi	 v. The Union of India	and  another(1).   In  Ramjilal's  case (2), this Court  held  that	 theprotection against imposition and collection of tax save  byauthority  of law directly arises from Art. 265 and  is	 notsecured by cl. 1 of Art. 31 ; and Art. 265 not being in	 Ch.III of the Constitution, its protection is not a fundamentalright which can be enforced by an application under Art.  32of the Constitution.  It was observed in Ramjilal's case (2)that  the  right  secured by Art. 265  may  be	enforced  byadopting  appropriate proceedings under the Act	 authorisinglevy of tax but a petition founded on Art. 32 read with Art.31(1)  was  misconceived  and  must  fail.   That  view	 wasreiterated  in Laxmanappa's case(1).  But it has  been	heldthat  a threat by the State to realize without authority  oflaw  tax  from a citizen by using coercive machinery  of  animpugned  Act  is an infringement of the  fundamental  rightguaranteed  to	him  under Art. 19(1)(g) and  gives  to	 theaggrieved citizen a right to seek relief by a petition underthe  Constitution (see Himmatlal Harilal Mehta v. The  Stateof  Madhya  Pradesh  and others	 (3),  The  Bengal  ImmunityCompany	 Ltd. v. The State of Bihar and others (4) and	The,State of Bombay v. The United Motors (India) Ltd. and others(5).   In these cases, in appeals from orders passed by	 theHigh  Courts  in petitions under Art. 226, this	 Court	heldthat an attempt to levy tax under a statute which was  ultravires  infringed the fundamental right of the  citizens	 andrecourse to the High Court for protection of the fundamentalright was not prohibited because of the provisions containedin  Art.  265.	 In the case before us,	 the  vires  of	 theCentral	 Sales	Tax Act, 1956, are not	challenged;  but  inKailash	 Nath and another v. The State of Uttar Pradesh	 andothers	(6)  a petition challenging the levy of	 a  tax	 wasentertained  by	 this Court even though the  Act  under	 theauthority  of which the tax was sought to be  recovered	 wasnot  challenged	 as ultra vires.  It is	 not  necessary	 forpurposes  of  this case to decide whether the  principle  ofKailash Nath's case (6) is inconsistent(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 769(3)  [1954]   S.C.R. 1122.(5)  [1953]   S.C.R. 1069(2)  [1951]   S.C.R. 127.(4)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.(6)  A.I.R. 1957 S. C. 790.384with  the  view expressed by this Court in  Ramjilal's	case(1).   Evidently,  the	company has paid to  the  Sales	 TaxOfficer,  Bihar, tax due under the Central Sales Tax Act  onits  turnover including sales on which the tax is sought  tobe levied by the Commercial Tax Officer, West Bengal.  Underthe  Central Sales Tax Act, there is a single  liability  topay  tax on inter-State sales.	The company having paid	 thetax  to	 the Bihar State for and on behalf  of	the  CentralGovernment, the threat to recover again sales tax on  behalfof  the Central Government in respect of the same sales,  i.e.,  sales which are included in the assessment	 proceedingsbefore the Bihar Sales Tax authorities prima facie infringesthe  fundamental right of the company to hold  its  propertyand  the  company is entitled to approach this	Court  underArt.  32  of the Constitution.	 The  preliminary  objectionraised by counsel for the respondents must therefore fail.To  appreciate the arguments advanced on the merits  of	 theclaim  made by the company, it is necessary to set  out	 therelevant  legislative  history and the	course	of  judicialdecisions.Under the Government of India Act, 1935, power to make	lawsin respect of " taxes on sale of goods and advertisements  "was conferred by s. 100(1) read with entry 48 of List II  inSchedule  VII upon the Provincial Legislatures.	 This  powerwas exercised by all the Provinces and by picking out one ormore  ingredients constituting a sale, as  determinative  ofthe place where the sale took place, they brought within thetaxing	 laws	transactions   substantially   outside	 theterritorial limits of their authority.	Statutes so  enactedled to multiple taxation of the same transaction by  severalProvinces,   each  Province  seeking  to  rely	 upon	someingredient   of	  the  sale  within  its   jurisdiction	  asestablishing a territorial nexus.This burden lay heavily upon the consumer.  The	 ConstituentAssembly  was  seriously exercised over this  situation	 andtried  to meet the problem by placing restrictions upon	 thetaxing power of the States in respect of sales and purchaseshaving	 inter-State   elements.    Article   286   of	 theConstitution was one of(1)  [1951] S.C.R. 127.385the Articles enacted for that purpose.	That Article  beforeit  was amended by the Constitution (Sixth  Amendment)	Act,1956, stood as follows:(1)  No	 law  of  a State shall	 impose,  or  authorise	 theimposition of, a tax on the sale or purchase of goods  wheresuch sale or purchase takes place-(a)  outside the State ; or(b)  in	 the  course  of the import of the  goods  into,  orexport of the goods out of, the territory of India.Explanation:-For  the purposes of sub-clause (a), a sale  orpurchase shall be deemed to have taken place in the State inwhich  the  goods have actually been delivered as  a  directresult	of  such  sale	or  purchase  for  the	purpose	  ofconsumption  in	 that State, relating to sale of  goods	 theproperty in the goods has by reason of such sale or purchasepassed in another State.(2)  Except  in	 so far as Parliament may by  law  otherwiseprovide,  no law of a State shall impose, or  authorise	 theimposition  of, a tax on the sale or purchase of  any  goodswhere  such  sale or purchase takes place in the  course  ofinter-State trade or commerce--Provided  that the President  may by order direct  that	 anytax  on	 the  sale  or purchase of  goods  which  was  beinglawfully  levied by the Government of any State	 immediatelybefore	 the  commencement  of	this  Constitution,   shall,notwithstanding that the imposition of such tax is  contraryto  the	 provisions of this clause, continue  to  be  levieduntil the thirty-first day of March, 1951.(3)  No law made by the Legislature of a State imposing,  orauthorising the imposition of, a tax on the sale or purchaseof  any such goods as have been declared. by  Parliament  bylaw to be essential for the life of the community shall haveeffect unless it has been reserved for the consideration  ofthe President and has received his assent.As  framed,  the Article attempted to  enunciate  restraintsupon  the legislative power of the States: but the  somewhatinartistic  form in which the Article and  particularly	 theExplanation was couched, obscured instead of clarifying	 themeaning of the Constituent386Assembly The scope of Art. 286 fell to be determined in	 theState,	of  Bombay v. United Motors (India) Ltd. (1)  in  anappeal to this court in which the validity of the provisionsof  the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1952 was challenged.   By	 theBombay	Act  liability to pay tax was imposed  on  sales  ofgoods  which  had been actually delivered in  the  State  ofBombay	as  a  direct result of sales  for  the	 purpose  ofconsumption in that State even if property in the goods had,by reason of such sales, passed in another State.  The	HighCourt  of Bombay in a petition under Art. 226 held that	 thedefinition  of sale in the Act included certain sales  whichwere  by Art. 286 of the Constitution exempt from  liabilityto  tax	 by  the State and the tax  imposed,  was  thereforewholly	void.  A majority of Judges hearing an	appeal	fromthat  judgment	to  this  Court	 held  that  Art.  286(1)(a)prohibited  taxation of sales or purchases involving  inter-State  elements by all States except the State in which	 thegoods were actually delivered for the purpose of consumptiontherein,  and the effect of the Explanation thereto  was  toconvert	   inter-State	  transactions	  into	  intrastatetransactions and to remove them from the operation of cl. 2.On  this  view,	 the majority of the Judges  held  that	 theBombay	Sales  Tax Act did not contravene  Art.	 286.	Thisinterpretation of Art. 286 did not meet with the approval ofa  larger  Bench of this Court which heard and	decided	 theBengal	Immunity Co.'s case (2).  In that case four  out  ofthe  seven  judges  constituting the  Bench  held  that	 theoperative  provisions  of  the several parts  of  Art.	286,namely cl. 1(a), cl. 1(b) and cls. 2 and 3 were intended  todeal with different topics and one " could not be  projectedor read into another ". According to the minority view, Art.286(1)(a)  located  the situs of the sales with	 a  view  toavoid multiple taxation and for that purpose, it divided thesales  into two categories-', inside sales " and  "  outsidesales  ", and that Art. 286(2) applied to the sales  in	 thecourse of inter-State trade and the sales which fell  withinthe Explanation were intrastate sales.	In M/s.	 Ram  NarainSons Ltd. v. Assistant Commissioner of Sales(1) [1953] S.C.R. 1069.(2) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.387Tax  and  others  (1) which was	 decided  after	 the  BengalImmunity Co.'s case  (2)  this Court held:      "The  bans imposed by Art. 286 of the Constitution  onthe taxing powers of the States are independent and separateand  each  one	of them has to be got over  before  a  StateLegislature  can  impose  tax on  transactions	of  sale  orpurchase  of  goods.   The  Explanation	 to  Art.  286(1)(a)determines by the legal fiction created therein the situs ofthe  sale  in the case of transactions	coming	within	thatcategory and once it is determined by the application of theExplanation  that  a transaction is outside  the  State,  itfollows as a matter of course that the State, with referenceto  which  the	transaction can thus  be  predicated  to  beoutside it, can never tax the transaction."The  Constitution was thereafter amended, Explanation  1  ofrt. 286 was deleted and cls. 2 and 3 thereto were altered bythe amendment.	As amended, Art. 286 stands as follows:Art.  286:-1.  No law of a State shall impose, or  authorisethe  imposition of, a tax on the sale or purchase of  goods,where such sale or purchase takes place-(a)  outside the State; or(b)  in	 the  course  of the import of the  goods  into,  orexport of the goods out of, the territory of India.2.   Parliament	  may  by  law	formulate   principles	 fordetermining when a sale or purchase of goods takes place  inany of the ways mentioned in cl. 1.3.   Any  law of a State shall, in so far as it imposes,  orauthorises the imposition of, a tax on the sale or  purchaseof  goods  declared by Parliament by law to  be	 of  specialimportance  in inter-State trade or commerce, be subject  tosuch restrictions and conditions in regard to the system  oflevy, rates and other incidents of the tax as Parliament mayby law specify.Simultaneously,	  the  Parliament  was	authorised  by	 theincorporation of item 92A in List I of the seventh schedule,to  legislate  for levying tax on the sale  or	purchase  ofgoods other than newspapers, where such(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 483.(2) [1955] 2. S.C.R. 60350(2) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.388sale  or  purchase takes place in the course  of  interStatetrade  or commerce, and by the amendment of item 54 of	ListII  excluded that field of taxation from the  competence  ofthe State Legislatures.	 Art. 269, cl. 1(g), which was	alsoamended by cl. 3 to that Article read after the amendment asfollows:"Parliament may by law formulate principles for	 determiningwhen  a sale or purchase of goods takes place in the  courseof inter-State trade or commerce ".The   effect  of  these	 diverse  amendments  made  by	 theConstitution (Sixth Amendment) Act, 1956, was to invest	 theParliament  with exclusive authority to enact laws  imposingtax on sale or purchase of goods where such sale or purchasetakes place in the course of inter-State trade or  commerce,and  the tax collected by the States was to be	assigned  inthe  mariner  provided	by cl. 2 of Art. 269  to  the  Statewithin which the tax was leviable.In  exercise of authority conferred upon the  Parliament  byArt.  286  and Art. 269, cl. 3, the Parliament	enacted	 theCentral Sales Tax Act (74 of 1956).  The Act was enacted  asthe preamble recites:"  to  formulate principles for determining when a  sale  orpurchase  of goods takes place in the course of	 inter-Statetrade  or  commerce or outside a State or in the  course  ofimport	into or export from India, to provide for the  levy,collection  and distribution of taxes on sales of  goods  inthe  course of inter-State trade or commerce and to  declarecertain	 goods	to be of special importance  in	 inter-Statetrade	or  commerce  and  specify  the	  restrictions	 andconditions to which State laws imposing taxes on the sale orpurchase  of  such  goods of  special  importance  shall  besubject ".By  chapter 2 of the Act, ss. 3, 4 and 5,  those  principleswere  formulated and by chapter 3, detailed provisions	weremade for imposing liability to pay tax on inter-State sales,for  registration  of dealers, fixing rates of tax  and	 forlevy  and collection of tax and for imposing  penalties	 forbreach	of  the provisions of the Act relating to  levy	 andcollection of inter-State sales tax.  By s. 6, every  dealerwas  made liable to pay tax on all sales effected by him  inthe course of inter-State			    389trade or commerce.  By sub-s. 2 of s. 8, the rates of tax onsales  in the course of inter-State trade or  commerce	weredirected  to  be calculated at the same rates s and  in	 thesame manner as would have been done if the sale had in	facttaken  place  inside the appropriate State.  By	 s.  9,	 themachinery  for	levy and collection of tax  was	 prescribed.The tax payable by any dealer under the Act was to be leviedand  collected	by  the	 appropriate  State  in	 the  mannerprovided by sub-s. 2 which enacts that the authority for thetime being empowered to assess, collect and enforce  paymentof  any	 tax  under  the  General  Sales  Tax  Law  of	 theappropriate State shall on behalf of the Government of Indiaassess,	 collect and enforce payment of any tax	 payable  byany  dealer under the Act in the same manner as the  tax  onthe  sale or purchase of goods under the General  Sales	 TaxLaw  of	 the State is assessed, paid and collected.   It  ismanifest  that	by  s.	6 which	 is  the  charging  section,liability  to pay tax on inter-State sales is  imposed	uponall sales effected by any dealer in the course of interstatetrade  or  commerce.   The liability to pay  tax  under	 theCentral	 Sales Tax Act arises as an inter-State	 sale.	 Thetax  though collected by the State in which the	 sale  takesplace is due to the Central Government and is payable at therates prescribed in respect of intrastate sales by the Statein which it is collected.Sale  is  defined  in s. 2(g) as  meaning  any	transfer  ofproperty  in goods by one person to another for cash or	 fordeferred payment or for any other valuable consideration andincludes  a transfer of goods on the hire purchase or  othersystem	of  payment by instalments, but does not  include  amortgage or hypothecation of or a charge or pledge on goods.By s. 3, a sale or purchase of goods is deemed to take placein  the course of inter-State trade or commerce if the	saleor  purchase  (a) occasions the movement of goods  from	 oneState  to  another,  or	 (b)  is  effected  by	transfer  ofdocuments  of title to the goods during their movement	fromone  State to another.	A transaction of sale is subject  totax under the Central Sales Tax Act on the completion of thesale, and a mere contract of sale is390not a sale within the definition of sale in s. 2(g).  A salebeing  by  the	definition, transfer  of  property,  becomestaxable	 under	s. 3(a) if the movement of  goods  from	 oneState  to  another is under a covenant or  incident  of	 thecontract  of sale, and the property in the goods  passes  tothe  purchaser	otherwise than by transfer of  documents  oftitle  when  the  goods are in movement from  one  State  toanother.   In  respect of an inter-State sale,	the  tax  isleviable  only once and that indicates that the two  clausesof  s. 3 are mutually exclusive.  A sale taxable as  fallingwithin cl. (a) of s. 3, will be excluded from the purview ofcl. (b) of s. 3 ; otherwise certain sales may, be liable  totax under both the clauses and two States may, in respect ofa single sale, claim to levy the tax contrary to the plainintendment of ss. 6 and 9 of the Act.The sale contemplated by cl. (b) is one which is effected bytransfer  of  documents of title to the goods  during  theirmovement  from One State to another.  Where the property  inthe goods has passed before the movement has commenced,	 thesale  will evidently not fall within cl. (b); nor  will	 thesale  in  which the property in the goods passes  after	 themovement from one State to another has ceased be covered  bythe  clause.   Accordingly a 'sale effected by	transfer  ofdocuments  of title after the commencement of  movement	 andbefore its conclusion as defined by the two terminii set outin Explanation (1) and no other sale will be regarded as  aninter-State  sale  under  s. 3(b).  The	 definition  of	 theexpression  " sale " undoubtedly includes transfer of  goodson hire-purchase or other systems of payment by instalments,but  thereby, a mere contract of sale which does not  resultin  transfer of property occasioning movement of goods	fromone  State to another does not fall within the terms  of  s.3(a).	That transaction alone in which there is "  transferof goods " on the hire-purchase or other systems of  paymentby  instalments is included in the definition of "  sale  ".The  question  whether a mere contract in  which  goods	 aredelivered under a hire. purchase agreement is a sale  withinthe meaning of s.   2, cl. (g) and therefore, covered by cl.(a) of s. 3 does391not  fall to be determined in this case: nor are  we  calledupon  to  express our opinion on the  question	whether	 theclause	authorising imposition of sales tax on what  may  bemerely	a contract of sale is unconstitutional.	 We  are  inthis  case concerned to decide the competing claims  of	 theStates	of West Bengal and Bihar to levy sales tax from	 thecompany	 in respect of transactions of completed  sales	 andnot in respect of any hire-purchase transactions.Cases  of this Court, viz., State of  Travancore-Cochin	 andothers	v. The Bombay Co., Ltd. (1) and State of  TravancoreCochin and others v. Shanmugha Vilas Cashew Nut Factory	 andothers	(2)  relied upon by counsel for the  State  of	WestBengal	have no bearing on the interpretation of s. 3,	cls.(a)   and  (b).	  In  those  cases,  the  meaning   of	 theexpressions, " in the course of import and export " and ',inthe  course of interState trade or commerce " used  in	Art.286 fell to be determined.  The Constitution does not definethese expressions.  The Parliament has in the Central  SalesTax  Act,  1956,  sought to define by s. 3 when	 a  sale  orpurchase  of  goods is said to take place in the  course  ofinter-State trade or commerce and by s. 4(1) to define	whena sale or purchase of goods is said to take place outside  aState  and by s. 5, when a sale or purchase is said to	takeplace  in the course of import or export.   In	interpretingthese  definition  clauses,  it would  be  inappropriate  torequisition in aid the observations made in ascertaining thetrue  nature  and incidents without the	 assistance  of	 anydefinition clause of " sales outside the State " and " salesin the course of import or export " and Bales in the  courseof interState trade or commerce used in Art. 286.In our view, therefore, within cl. (b) of s. 3 are  includedsales  in  which  property in the goods	 passes	 during	 themovement of the goods from one State to another by  transferof  documents  of  title thereto : cl. (a) of  s.  3  coverssales,	other than those included in cl. (b), in  which	 themovement of goods from one State to another is the result ofa covenant or incident of the contract of sale, and propertyin the goods passes in either State.(1) [1952] S.C.R. 1112.(2) [1954] S.C.R. 5.3.392The  question to which attention must then be  directed	 is,which out of the two or more States concerned with the goodssold  under an inter- State sale is entitled to collect	 thetax  under Act 74 of 1956.  By s. 9, the tax payable by	 anydealer under the Act is to be levied and collected in the  "appropriate  State ". The expression " appropriate  State  "was at the material time defined by s. 2(a) as follows:"Appropriate State " means:-(i)  in	 relation to a dealer who has one or more places  ofbusiness situate in the same State, that State ;(ii) in	 relation to a dealer who has one or more places  ofbusiness situate in different States, every such State	withrespect	 to the place or places of business  situate  withinits territory ;Explanation:-" Place of business " means,(i)  in the case of a sale of goods in the course of  inter-State trade or commerce falling within cl. (a) of s.   3,the place from which the goods have been moved by reason  ofsuch sale ;(ii) in the case of any such sale falling within cl. (b)  ofs. 3, the place where the sale is effected.This  definition  made	the  State in  which  the  place  ofbusiness  is  situate,	the appropriate State;	and  by	 theExplanation,  the  expression  " place	of  business  "	 wasdefined	 in relation to the two classes of sales in s. 3  assales  in the course of inter-State trade or  commerce.	  Bythe  first part of the definition, in case of sale of  goodsfalling within cl. (a), the place from which the goods	havebeen  moved  is the place of business and by cl. 2,  in	 thecase  of  sales falling within cl. (b) of s.  3,  the  placewhere  the sale is effected is the place of business.	Thisevidently is a highly artificial definition.  By a  fiction,the place from which goods have been moved by reason of	 thesale  falling  within cl. (a) of s. 3, that is,	 that  placefrom  which the goods have been moved under the contract  ofsale for the purpose of delivery to the purchaser in anotherState  was declared the place of business.  By another	fic-tion,  the place where the sale is effected  in	 inter-Statetransactions falling within s. 3(b) was declared the393place of business.  In ascertaining the place of business asdefined by the Explanation, for cases falling within cl. (a)of  s. 3, little practical difficulty arises.  But in  casesof  sales falling within cl. (b), the location of the  placewhere  "  the sale is effected " for  ascertainment  of	 theplace  of  business within the meaning	of  the	 Explanationraises difficult problems.  As observed by Das, Acting ChiefJustice, in Bengal Immunity Company's case (1) at p. 649:" The situs of an intangible concept like a sale can only befixed  notionally  by the application  of  artificial  rulesinvented  either by Judges as part of the judge-made law  ofthe land or by some legislative authority.  But so far as weknow,  no fixed rule of universal application has  yet	beenevolved for deter. mining this for all purposes.  There	 aremany  conflicting theories: One, which is more	popular	 andfrequently put forward and is referred to and may indeed  beurged  to have been adopted by the  Constitution............favours	 the place where the property in the  goods  passes,another which is said to be the American view......... fixesupon  the  place where the contract is	concluded,  a  thirdwhich  prevails	 in  the  continental  countries  of  Europeprefers	 the  place  where  the	 goods	sold  are   actuallydelivered, a fourth points to the place where the  essentialingredients  which  go to make up a sale  are  most  denselygrouped ".Ex facie, cl. 2 of the Explanation to s. 2(a) does not	seekto  locate  the place where the sale is	 effected  in  casesfalling	 within	 cl.  (b) of s. 3 at  the  place  where	 thetransfer  of documents of title to the goods  was  effected.Parliament  has	 classified  the sales " in  the  course  ofinter-State trade or commerce " in cls. (a) and (b) of s.  3and  by the first clause of the Explanation to s.  2(a),  incases of sales falling within s. 3(a) the place of  businessis  the place from which movement has commenced and  in	 thecase of sales falling within s. 3(b), it is the place  wherethe  sale is effected.	But there is in the  Explanation  nomaterial  for  ascertaining  the place	where  the  sale  iseffected.(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.394There was a sharp conflict of opinion as to the true meaningof  Art. 286, cls. 1(a) and (b) and the Explanation as	theystood  before  the  amendment  by  the	Constitution  (SixthAmendment) Act, 1956.  In the United Motors' case (1) it wasopined	by a majority of the judges of this Court that	Art.286(1)(a)   prohibited	taxation  of  sales   or   purchasesinvolving interstate elements by all States except the Statein  which  the	goods  were delivered  for  the	 purpose  ofconsumption  therein, and the latter State was left free  totax  such sales or purchases and that power was not  derivedfrom  the Explanation to Art. 286(1) but under	Art.  246(3)read  with  entry  54  in List II.   Mr.  Justice  Bose	 whodisagreed  with	 the  majority	held  that  the	 basic	ideaunderlying  Art. 286 was to prohibit taxation in the  courseof inter-State trade and commerce until the ban under cl.  2of  the said Article was lifted by Parliament and always  inthe  case  of  imports and exports, and	 when  the  ban	 waslifted, the Explanation to cl. 1 of Art. 286 came into	playto  determine  the situs of the sale,  the  explanation	 notgoverning cl. 2 as it applied to transactions which in truthand  in fact took place in the course of  inter-State  tradeand  commerce.	 Mr. Justice Bhagwati who  agreed  with	 theconclusion  of the majority as to the vires of the  impugnedAct, opined that the Explanation to Art. 286(1) did not takeaway the right which the State in which the property in	 thegoods  passed  had  to tax the sale or	purchase,  but	onlydeemed	such  purchase or sale by a legal  fiction  to	havetaken place in the State in which the delivery of the  goodshad  been  made for consumption so as to enable	 the  latterState also to tax the sale or purchase in question.  In	 TheBengal	Immunity CO.'s case (2), Das, Acting Chief  Justice,in delivering the judgment of the majority observed that theseveral	 parts of Art. 286, viz., cls. 1(a), 1(b),  (2)	 and(3)  were intended to deal with different topics;  that	 theExplanation to cl. 1(a) to Art. 286 should not	legitimatelybe  extended  to  cl. (b) either as an	exception  or  as  aproviso thereto or read as curtailing or limiting the  ambitof cl. 2; that Art. 286(1)(a) fixed(1) [1953] S.C.R. 1069.(2) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.395the  situs  of	the  sales with a  view	 to  avoid  multipletaxation and for that purpose classified the sales into	 twocategories,  inside  sales and outside sales and  s  enactedthat  the State cannot tax outside sales and the purpose  ofthe  Explanation  which	 declared a sale in  the  course  ofinter-State trade must be deemed to have taken place  insidethe  State in which the goods are delivered for	 consumptionwas  clearly  to take it out of the  inter-State  trade	 andimpress it with the character of an intra-State sale.	Thisview was followed in M/s.  Ram Narain Sons Ltd. v. AssistantCommissioner of Sales Tax & others (1).Evidently, by the interpretation placed by this Court on thescope  and  meaning  of	 Art.  286  as	originally  enacted,Parliament   was  faced	 with  a  difficult  problem.	 TheParliament had to examine the problem of taxing	 inter-Statetrade and commerce in the light of three principal  factors,namely,	 (1) the constitutional freedom of  trade,  commerceand   intercourse   guaranteed	 by  Art.   301,   (2)	 theinadvisability	of allowing the States unrestricted  freedomto levy or impose taxes on sales or purchases of goods	withinterState content, and (3) the necessity to impose restric-tions  on  multiple taxation of the same sale  by  differentStates.	 The Parliament deleted the Explanation to cl. 1  ofArt.  286 which had given rise to this serious	conflict  ofviews  and  recast cls. 2 and 3. By cl. 2  as  amended,	 theParliament  was	 authorised  to	 formulate  principles	 fordetermining when a sale or purchase of goods takes place  inany of the ways mentioned in cl. 1 ; and by the addition  ofitem  92A  in List I of the seventh  schedule,	the  CentralGovernment alone could tax sales or purchases of goods whichtake  place in the course of inter-State trade or  commerce.By  incorporating cl. 3 to Art. 269, the Parliament  assumedto itself the power to formulate principles for	 determiningwhen  a sale or purchase of goods takes place in the  courseof  inter-State	 trade	or  commerce.	It  is	after	thisamendment was made that the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, wasenacted	 with a view to provide for collection of a  tax  onsales or purchases in(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 483.51396the course of inter-State trade or commerce.  The Parliamenthad  to	 define sales in the course of interState  trade  orcommerce,  sales  in  the course of import  or	export,	 andintrastate sales.  The Parliament set out by s. 3 to  definesales of goods which can be said to take place in the courseof inter-State trade or commerce, by s. 4(1) to define	whena  sale is said to take place outside a State, and by  s.  5when  a sale is said to take place in the course  of  importand in the course of export.  By s. 9, authority to tax	 wasconferred  upon the appropriate State, and  that  expressionwas  defined by s. 2 as the State where the dealer  had	 hisplace of business, and in respect of sales which fall withincl.  (b)  of s. 3, the place of business of the	 dealer	 wasdeclared to be the place where the sale is effected.  By  s.3, it was intended to define the class of sales which  shallbe deemed to be sales in the course of inter-State trade  orcommerce,   but	 the  conditions  which	 go  to	 make	suchtransactions,  sales in the course of inter-State  trade  orcommerce as set out by cls. (a) and (b) were not intended tolocate the place where the sale takes place.The  legal position as to taxability of sales in the  courseof inter-State trade or commerce was unsatisfactory and	 theParliament  radically  amended	Art.  286  and	the   alliedArticles.   It also enacted a special Act  authorising	levyand  collection of Central Sales Tax with a view to  preventrivalry	 and  competition between different States.   Is  itthen to be assumed that the Parliament still left the law inso  far	 as it related to a class of sales  covered  by	 thedescription  of sales in the course of inter-State trade  orcommerce  in  the  same	 unsatisfactory	 condition   withoutenacting where the sales in cases falling within cl. (b)  ofs. 3 were effected?Before	proceeding  to answer that query, attention  may  bedirected to s. 4 of Act 74 of 1956.  It is as follows: ,"(1) Subject to the provisions contained in s.3 when a	saleor purchase of goods is determined in accordance with sub-s.(2)  to	 take place inside a State, such  sale	or  purchaseshall  be  deemed  to have taken  place	 outside  all  otherStates.			    397(2)  A	sale  or purchase of goods shall be deemed  to	takeplace inside a State if the goods are within the State-(a)  in	 the case of specific or ascertained goods,  at	 thetime the contract of sale is made ; and(b)  in	 the case of unascertained or future goods,  at	 thetime  of their appropriation to the contract of sale by	 theseller or by the buyer, whether assent of the other party isprior or subsequent to such appropriation.Explanation:-Where  there  is a single contract of  sale  orpurchase  of  goods situated at more places  than  one,	 theprovisions of this sub-section shall apply as if there	wereseparate  contracts in respect of the goods at each of	suchplaces."Sub-section 2 defines what sales or purchases shall bedeemed to take place inside a State.  The terms of sub-s.  2are quite general, and the Parliament has thereby  attemptedto  locate the place where a sale takes place.	 The  clausedoes  not deal with the conditions which " effect " a  gale:nor is there any warrant for the view that sub-s. 2 of s.  4only seeks to locate the place of sale which are not in	 thecourse of interState trade or commerce.	 By enacting ch. 11,the Parliament sought as evidenced by the title of the chap-ter to exercise its power under Art. 269(3) and 286(2).	  Bys.  3, the Parliament formulated principles for	 determiningwhen  a sale or purchase of goods takes place in the  courseof  inter-State	 trade	or  commerce and  in  so  doing,  itexercised  authority conferred upon it by Art.	269(3).	  Inenacting  s. 4, cl. (1), the Parliament sought to  formulateprinciples for determining when a sale takes place outside aState  and  in	enacting  that	section,  it  legislated  inexercise  of authority under Art. 286(2) read with cl.	1(a)of  that Article; and in enacting s. 5, sub-ss. 1 and 2,  itexercised authority under Art. 286(2) read with cl. 1(b)  ofthe Article to formulate principles for determining the salewhich  takes place in the course of import or  export.	 TheParliament  by sub-s. 2 of s. 4 attempted to define  when  asale  shall be deemed to take place inside a State,  and  bysub-s.	1 of s. 4 provided that when a sale or398purchase of goods was determined in accordance with sub-s. 2to take place inside a State, such sale or purchase shall bedeemed	to have taken place outside all other  States.	 Butsub-s.	1  having  been	 made  subject	to  the	  provisionscontained in s. 3, it is evident that only those sales whichwere  not  in  the course of interState	 trade	or  commerceshould be determined under sub-s. 1 of s. 4 as having  takenplace  outside	a  State.  We are unable to  hold  that	 anyweight	can be attached to the argument that if it  was	 theobject of the Legislature by enacting sub-s. (2) of s. 4  toexplain	 the expression, " where the sale is effected  "  asused  in  cl.  (ii)  of the  Explanation  to  s.  2(a),	 theLegislature would have expressly stated so.  Nor are we ableto agree with the contention that s. 4 only seeks to  define"  outside sales " and is not intended to locate  the  placewhere  a  sale	is  effected.	The  argument  that  by	 theapplication of s. 4, sub-s. 2, in cases where the goods soldare unascertained or future goods, there will be  difficultyin  ascertaining the place where the sale is  effected,	 hasalso no force.	In any event, s. 4(2) may not be denied	 itsfull operation, merely because difficulty may be encounteredin some cases in ascertaining the place where it is effectedby the application of the rules set out therein.The Commercial Tax Officer has observed in his order that:"  In this case, it should be remembered that  section	3(b)refers to transfer of documents and not only to transfer  ofdocuments  by endorsement.  Thus, even if the documents	 arein  the	 name  of  the buyer  as  consignee  but  these	 arephysically transferred to the buyer in West Bengal then thatsale is taxable in West Bengal.	 In case of goods  consignedto  "  Self  " there is no question  that  delivery  to	 therailways cannot be constituted as delivery to the buyer "But  under the Sale of Goods Act, if a document of title  togoods is used in the ordinary course of business as proof ofthe possession or control of goods, endorsement or  deliverythereof	 according  to mercantile practice  will  amount  todelivery of the goods thereby represented.  The transfer  ofdocuments contemplated			    399by  s. 3(b) is therefore such transfer as in law amounts  todelivery  of  the goods.  Transfer of  documents  either  byendorsement or delivery does complete transfer of title, butin  the	 absence  of an indication to  that  effect  in	 thestatute,  the place where the documents are  transferred  isnot  the place of sale.	 If the view which appealed  to	 theCommercial  Tax Officer is accepted, there is a	 possibilityof large scale evasion of tax.	For instance, the  documentsmay be handed over outside India.  If documents of title  togoods  are  handed  over by the vendor	either	directly  orthrough	 his  agent to the purchaser or	 his  agent  outsideIndia, on the view taken by the Commercial Tax Officer, eventhough	the sale has taken place in India and the goods	 arein India, the sale would not be taxable.  This result  couldnot  have  been	 contemplated by the  Legislature.   We	 aretherefore  unable  to  agree  with the	view  taken  by	 theCommercial Tax Officer.It was urged by counsel for the State of Bihar that iron andsteel  are  commodities	 of  which  the	 storage,  sale	 andpurchase  are  controlled by the Iron  and  Steel  (Control)Order, 1956, and all the sales which are made subject to taxunder the impugned order are those covered by s. 3(a) of theCentral	 Sales	Tax Act.  In para. 3 of	 the  petition,	 thecompany	 has  set  out the practice  which  is	followed  insupplying  steel  pursuant  to	the  orders  passed  by	 theController.  It is stated that an intending purchaser has toobtain	a permit from the Iron and Steel Controller  of	 theregion	where he carries on business and the permit is	sentby the Provincial Controller to the Controller at  Calcutta.The latter Officer plans the indent on the company and Bendsit to the Head Sales Office at Calcutta for compliance,	 andthe  planning of the indent in effect is a directive by	 theController  to	supply	steel  to  the	intending  purchasersubject to the company's terms and conditions.	In paras. 4,5  and	6 of the petition, the specimen forms  of  quotationletters and the practice followed in supplying goods to	 theGovernment and Railways, to the " engineering firms and	 thebazaar parties " are set out.  In the light of cls. 4, 5, 10and 15 of the Iron and Steel (Control) Order, it was400urged  that all the sales effected by the company under	 thedirection of the Controller fall within s. 3, cl. (a).	 Butwe do not think it necessary to express any opinion on	thisargument  at this stage, without a more complete picture  ofthe modus operandi followed.The Commercial Tax Officer has taxed all the sales  effectedby  the company under s. 3, cl. (b), on the view that  salesin which the documents of title were handed over in Calcuttawere taxable in the State of West Bengal.  The assessment ismade on two assumptions, (1) that all the sales effected  infavour	of  West  Bengal parties  satisfied  the  conditionsprescribed  by	s. 3(b), and (2) that the  place  where	 thedocuments  are	delivered, by the company through  its	HeadSales Office to the purchaser is the place where the sale iseffected.   Neither  of these assumptions is  correct.	 TheCommercial  Tax Officer had, in our judgment,  to  ascertainbefore he could order payment of tax under the Central SalesTax Act, whether on the materials he was satisfied, (a) thatthe goods at the time of transfer of documents of title werein  movement  from the State of Bihar to the State  of	WestBengal,	 (b) that the place where the sale was effected	 wasunder  s. 4, cl. (2), within the State of West Bengal.	 TheCommercial Tax Officer has, in our view, failed to apply thecorrect	 tests	and  has  made	assumptions  which  are	 notwarranted and on a true interpretation of the provisions  ofthe Central Sales Tax Act, the order of assessment disclosesan error apparent on its face and a writ of certiorari	mustissue	quashing  the  assessment.   It	 will  be  for	 theCommercial Tax Officer of West Bengal to re-assess the	com-pany  in respect of transactions of sale which are  properlytaxable	 within the State of West Bengal by the	 applicationof the test which we have already set out.On  this view, the rule is made absolute and it is  directedthat  a writ of certiorari will issue quashing the order  ofassessment made by the Commercial Tax Officer, Lyons  Range,Calcutta, West Bengal.	The company will be entitled to	 itscosts of this petition.			    401SARKAR	J.-The petitioner was assessed to sales tax on	someof  its	 sales by the Government of West  Bengal  under	 theprovisions of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956.	It  contendsthat  the Government of West Bengal had no power  to  assesstax  on	 those	sales, for, under the  Act,  they  could  bebrought	 to  tax only by the Government of  Bihar.   It	 hasfiled this petition under Art. 32 of the Constitution for  awrit to quash the order of assessment made by the Governmentof  West  Bengal on the ground that it	violates  the  peti-tioner's rights under sub-cls. (f) & (g) of cl. (1) of	Art.19 to told property and carry on business.The  petitioner is a limited company carrying on a  businessof  manufacturing and selling iron and steel goods.  It	 hasits factory at Jamshedpur in Bihar and its head sales officein Calcutta in West Bengal..On August 12, 1959, the Taxing Officer of the Government  ofWest Bengal served a notice on the petitioner to produce  "astatement of sales from Jamshedpur.....................	 thedocuments relating to which were transferred in West  Bengalor  of any other sales that have taken place under s. 3	 (b)of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 ". The petitioner refusedto submit the return for reasons which we shall state  laterand took the stand that the tax on the sales was  assessableby the Government of Bihar and not by the Government of WestBengal.	 The Taxing Officer of the Government of West Bengaldid  not accept the contention of the petitioner and in	 theabsence	 of a return by it, made a best judgment  assessmenton  October 21, 1959, assessing the petitioner to a  tax  ofRs.  41,14,718-12  nP.	The petitioner seeks  to  have	thisorder quashed.The respondents to this petition are the Government of	WestBengal, its officer who made the assessment, the  Governmentof  Bihar  and	the Union of India.  No	 relief	 is  howeverclaimed against the last two respondents.The  questions	raised	by  this  petition  depend  on	 theconstruction of certain provisions of the Central Sales	 TaxAct, 1956.  The Act was amended with effect from October  1,1958.  This case however has to be decided402on  the	 Act  as it stood prior to the	amendment,  for	 theperiod covered by the impugned order of assessment was	fromJuly 1, 1957 to March 31, 1958.	 It may be stated here	thatthe  validity  of  the Act has not been	 challenged  by	 thepetitioner.A preliminary objection to this petition is taken on  behalfof  the Government of West Bengal.  It is said that  as	 thelegality of the Act is not challenged, the imposition of thetax  does  not result in any violation	of  the	 fundamentalright guaranteed by Art. 31(1) of the Constitution and	thispetition based on such alleged violation is, therefore,	 notcompetent.   Such a view was indeed taken by this  Court  inRamji  Lal  v. Income-tax Officer, Mohindargarh	 (1).	Thiscase  was followed in Laxmanappa Hanumantappa  Jamkhandi  v.Union  of  India(2).   The present  case  however  does	 notcomplain of a violation of any fundamental right under	Art.31.   The  fundamental right the infringement  of  which  isalleged	 by  the  assessment order, is	the  right  to	holdproperty and carry on business under Art. 19 (1)(f) and (g).In  Kailash Nath v. The State of U. P. (3), this Court	heldthat  an illegal levy of sales tax on a trader under an	 Actthe  legality  of  which was  not  challenged  violates	 hisfundamental rights under Art. 19(1)(g) and a petition  underArt.  32 with respect to such violation lies.	The  earliercase  of Ramji Lal v. Income,-tax Officer, Mohindargarh	 (1)does  not appear to have been considered.  It  is  contendedthat  the  decision  in Kailash	 Nath's	 case  (3)  requiresreconsideration.   We do not think however that the  presentis a fit case to go into the question whether the two  casesare not reconcilable and to decide the preliminary  questionraised.	  The  point  was  taken at  a	late  stage  of	 theproceedings  after  much  costs	 had  been  incurred.	 Thequestion  arising  on this petition is	further	 of  generalimportance, a decision of which is desirable in the interestof all concerned.  As there is at least one case  supportingthe  competence of the petition, we think it fit  to  decidethis  petition	on  its merits, on the footing	that  it  iscompetent.(1) [1951] S.C.R. 127.		(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 769.(3)  A.I.R. 1957 S.C. 790.			    403Now, the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, is an Act of the UnionLegislature.  It authorises the levy of a tax on sales	madein  the course of inter-State trade.  It is only  with	suchsales  that  the present case is concerned.   Sales  in	 thecourse	of inter-State trade are defined in s. 3 of the	 Actand  this section will be set out later.  Section 6  of	 theAct  provides that every dealer shall be liable to  pay	 taxunder  the  Act on all sales made by him in  the  course  ofinter-State  trade.  That the petitioner is a dealer is	 notin  dispute.  Section 9(1) provides that the tax payable  byany  dealer under the Act shall be levied and  collected  inthe  "	appropriate  State " by	 the  Government  of  India.Section	 9(2)  provides that the  authorities  empowered  toassess	and collect tax under the general sales tax  law  ofthe " appropriate State " shall on behalf of the  Governmentof  India, assess and collect the tax payable under the	 Actand  for such purpose, exercise all	  powers  under	 itsgeneral	 sales tax law.	 Under the provisions of sub-s.	 (3)of  s. 9, the State collecting the tax becomes	entitled  toretain it substantially.  It is therefore clear that the taxis payable to the Union and is collected by a State for	 theUnion.The  contention of the petitioner before the taxing  officerof  the Government of West Bengal may be reproduced  in	 itsown words:" We contend that all our sales from Jamshedpur are. of	 thetype mentioned in Section 3(a) of the Central Sales Tax	 Actand  at	 the  same time some of them also  fall	 within	 thecategory mentioned in Section 3(b) of the Act.	Even if	 thesales are of the type mentioned in Section 3(b) of the	Act,the  Appropriate  State of the place where  the	 sales	takeplace or are effected, has jurisdiction to assess such salesto Central Sales Tax.  Section 4(2) lays down the principlesfor  ascertaining  where the sale takes place, or  in  otherwords, the situs of the sale.  This section creates a legalfiction for ascertaining the situs of the sale.So  far	 as  our  inter-State  sales  from  Jamshedpur	 areconcerned  the	situs of such sales will always	 be  in	 theState of Bihar as the goods will be in Bihar either52404at  the time of contract of sale (ascertained goods)  or  atthe   time   of	  their	 appropriation	 to   the   contract(unascertained	goods).	  We  have  accordingly	 filed	 ourreturns of sales made in the course of inter-State trade  orcommerce   from	  Jamshedpur  with  the	 Bihar	 Sales	 taxAuthorities under the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, and	havepaid to them the Tax on the basis of these returns ".The Taxing Officer of the Government of West Bengal did	 notaccept the petitioner's contention.  He held :"  In  the case of sale u/s 3(b) no property  in  the  goodspasses	unless	the documents of title to goods are  in	 thehands of the buyer.  In such a case the " Appropriate  State" to levy the tax should be that State in which the sale hasbeen  effected; or, in other words, that State in which	 thedocuments  of  title to goods have been transferred  to	 thebuyer.In the above circumstances, it is clear that West Bengal  isthe  " Appropriate State " to levy tax on inter-State  salesof the dealer effected by transfer of documents of title  togoods in West Bengal.  In this case, it should be rememberedthat  section 3(b) refers to transfer of documents  and	 notonly to transfer of documents by endorsement.  Thus, even ifthe documents are in the name of the buyer as consignee	 butthese are physically transferred to the buyer in West Bengalthen  that  sale is taxable in	West Bengal.   In  case	 ofgoods  consigned  to  " Self " there  is  no  question	thatdelivery  to the railways cannot be constituted as  deliveryto the buyer".He also held that:"  The	dealer	has said that section  4(2)  lays  down	 theprinciples for ascertaining where the sale in the course  ofinter-State  trade  takes  place.  In  other  words,  the  "Appropriate State " (to levy the tax on the sales) u/s 9  ofthe Central Act (prior to its amendment with effect from  1-10-58) should be determined by section 4(2).  In my opinion,this is an incorrect reading of the law.  Each of section  3and section 4			    405deals	with   quite  independent   sphere   of	  commercialtransactions".Finally,  he  made  the best  judgment	assessment,  earliermentioned, remarking that:" The dealer has himself admitted that he has some sales u/s3(b).  From my experience of examining the books of accountsof  the	 dealer for some earlier years I am of	the  opinionthat  a	 very  substantial portion of the  total  sales	 areeffected  by  transfer	of documents in	 West  Bengal.	 Thedealer	has refused to comply with my direction to submit  astatement  of  such sales.  I have, therefore,	to  make  anestimate.On  examining the records of the dealer under the State	 lawand   keeping  in  view	 the  fact  that  there	  had	beenconsiderable expansion of sales of iron and steel in  recentyears	1  estimate  the  turnover  during  the	 period	  ofassessment  to	be Rs. 9 crores; i.e., an average of  Rs.  1crore per month ".Now  in	 this case the petitioner's complaint  is  not	thatthere  should not have been a best judgment assessment.	  Itdoes not say that  assessment is arbitrary or, for any otherreason,	 unfair.  Its point is that the Government  of	WestBengal	could  not  tax a sale where goods  were  under	 thecontract of sale moved from Bihar to Bengal even though	 thedocuments  of  title to the goods sold were  transferred  inBengal,	 such sales being taxable only by the Government  ofBihar.It  is clear from what we have said that the  Government  ofWest  Bengal purported to tax sales under s. 3(b); it  taxedsales where during their movement from Bihar to Bengal,	 theproperty  in  the goods sold passed, by a transfer  in	WestBengal	of  the documents of title to them.   Two  questionsarise, namely, what is a sale under s. 3(b) and which is the" appropriate State " to tax such sales ?We  take up the first question now.  In order to decide	 it,we have to consider s. 3 as a whole.  The section, so far asmaterial, is in these terms:Section	 3:-A sale or purchase of goods shall be  deemed  totake place in the course of inter-State trade or commerce ifthe sale or purchase-406(a)  occasions	the  movement of goods	from  one  State  toanother ; or(b)  is effected by a transfer of documents of title to	 thegoods during their movement from one State to another.The  first thing that strikes us is that the section has  tobe so construed that the two clauses in it are made mutuallyexclusive.  It seems clear that it was not contemplated thata  sale can fall within both the clauses.  If that were	 notso, there might be two " appropriate States " in respect  ofit,  one being the State from which the goods were moved  byreason of the sale and the other being another State  withinwhich the sale was effected by the transfer of documents  oftitle  during the movement of the goods sold from one  Stateto  another.  In such a case, each of the two "	 appropriateStates	"  would  be entitled to collect the  tax  with	 theresult	that the same sale would be taxed twice	 over.	 Thelearned	 counsel  for  the State of Bihar  was	inclined  tocontend, no doubt as an alternative argument, that  could bedone.  We do not think that the Act intended such a  result.We proceed now to state our reasons for this view.The  Act  imposes tax on sales in the course  of  interStatetrade.	 It is an Act of the Union legislature.	  Under	 theConstitution  the  State legislatures have no power  to	 taxsuch sales and only the Union Legislature can do so.  It  iswell  recognised  that the power to tax sales  made  in	 thecourse	of  inter-State trade has been denied to  the  StateLegislatures with the object of preventing multiple taxationof  the same sale by different States resulting in  hardshipto  the	 ultimate consumer: see State of  Bombay  v.  UnitedMotors	(India) Ltd.(1) and Bengal Immunity Co.	 Ltd.  v.TheState  of  Bihar (2).  Since these cases were  decided,	 theConstitution has no doubt been amended, but the observationsmade in them still apply.  This being so, the Act could	 nothave intended to tax the same sale twice.But  apart  from this consideration of	a  somewhat  generalnature, the provisions of the Act plainly make(1) [1953] S.C.R. 1069.(2) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.407it impossible to levy two taxes on the same sale.  Under  s.8(1),  the  tax is a certain percentage of  the	 dealer's  "turnover ". Section 2(j) defines " turnover " as meaning theaggregate  of  the sale prices in respect  of  the  dealer'ssales.	So the tax is a percentage of the sale price and  aseach  sale  produces one price, it follows that	 it  can  betaxed  only  once.  Again, s. 9 by providing  that  the	 taxshall  be  collected  in the " appropriate State  "  by	 theGovernment of India, plainly indicates that there is one taxpayable to the Government of India which is collected by oneState only.  Section 3 by the use of the word " or " betweencls.  (a) and (b) in it also suggests that the	clauses	 areexclusive of each other.One  sale  then cannot be taxed twice.	A sale	cannot	fallunder both cl. (a) and cl. (b) of s. 3, for then it would beliable to tax twice.  Clauses (a) and (b) are hence mutuallyexclusive.   Keeping  this basic consideration in  mind,  weproceed to construe s. 3.We  take cl. (a) of s. 3 first.	 That clause contemplates  asale which occasions the movement of goods from one State toanother.   The words ' sale occasions the  movement'  shouldcreate	no difficulty.	It is apparent from the	 explanationin s. 2(a) which will be set out later, that they mean movedby reason of the sale'.	 The question then arises, when doesa sale occasion the movement of goods sold ? It seems  clearto  us	that a sale can occasion the movement of  the  goodssold only when the terms of the sale provide that the  goodswould be moved; in other words, a sale occasions a  movementof goods when the contract of sale so provides.We turn now to the sale contemplated by el. (b) of s.  3.That is a sale effected by a transfer of documents of  titleto  the goods  during their movement  from  one	 State	toanother.   What	 then is a sale effected by  a	transfer  ofdocuments  of  title ? In our view, it can only	 be  a	salewhere the property in the goods sold is passed by a transferof documents of title.	It is well known that in many  casesof  sale,  property in the goods sold is  transferred  by  atransfer  of documents of title to them.  It has  been	saidthat a sale has several408elements, namely, agreement to sell, transfer of property inthe goods sold, payment of price, delivery of the goods	 andso  forth:  see State, of Bombay v.  United  Motors  (India)Ltd.(1).  It seems to us to be inappropriate to talk of	 anyof  these elements of sale being effected by a	transfer  ofdocuments  of title, other than the element of	transfer  ofproperty.  Thus, for example, the contract of sale cannot beeffected by the transfer of documents of title, neither	 thepayment	 of  price.  A transfer of documents  of  title	 mayperhaps	 effect	 a delivery of the goods if the	 parties  soagree.	 But it seems to us that in defining a sale  in	 thecourse of inter-State trade in a statute purporting to tax asale,  that is a transaction in which property in the  goodspassed, the legislature was not thinking only of delivery ofgoods.	 It  does  not	appear to  us  to  be  a  reasonableconstruction of the words " sale is effected ' to hold	thatthey  mean delivery of the thing sold.	Therefore, we  thinkthat cl. (b) refers only to sales where transfer of propertyin  the goods sold takes place by the transfer of  documentsof  title  to them during their movement from one  State  toanother.We have then come to this that cl. (a) of s. 3	contemplatesa sale where the contract of sale occasions the movement  ofthe  goods  sold  and  cl. (b), a  sale	 where	transfer  ofproperty  in  the goods sold is effected by  a	transfer  ofdocuments  of title to them.  Of course, in the first  case,the movement of the goods must be from one State to  anotherand   in  the  second,	the  documents	of  title  must	  betransferred during such movement.Now  it	 will  be  apparent  that  if  this  was  the	fullconstruction  of  the  two clauses, then  they	would  oftenoverlap.   This,  as earlier stated, was not  intended.	  Wehave  to  narrow  down the construction so as  to  make	 theclauses	 mutually exclusive.  There may be sales  under	 theterms of which the goods have to be moved from one State  toanother.  All such sales would come within cl. (a).  But  itmay  so happen that in some of these sales, the property  inthe goods passes by a transfer of document of title to	themduring their(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 1069.			    409movement.   Such sales would fall within cl. (b)  also.	  Toavoid  this result we have to exclude from el. (a)  such  ofthe sales coming under it in which the property in the goodspasses	by a transfer of documents of title to	them  duringtheir  movement.  In other words, where a sale	comes  underboth the clauses, it has to be hold to fall under el. (b).We,  therefore,	 think	that  the  two	clauses	 should	  beconstrued  in the following way: Clause (a)  contemplates  asale  where  under the contract of sale the goods  sold	 aremoved from one State to another, provided however that	sucha  sale will not come under cl. (a) but fall under el.	(b)if the property in the goods sold is passed by a transfer ofthe  documents of title to them during their  movement	fromone  State  to	another.  Clause (b),  on  the	other  hand,contemplates a sale where the property in the goods sold  ispassed	by a transfer of documents of title to	them  duringtheir movement from one State to another.The  next question is which State can collect the tax  on  asale  falling under cl. (b) of s. 3, construing that  clausein the sense that we have done earlier. In other words, thequestion  in  this  case  is: Would West  Bengal  be  the  "appropriate State " to tax a sale where the property in	 thegoods sold passed from the seller to the buyer by a transferin  West  Bengal of the documents of title  to	them  duringtheir movement from Bihar to West Bengal ? Again, to put  itshortly,  in the case of sale under el. (b) of s. 3, is	 theState where the transfer of documents of title takes  place,the  "appropriate State" to tax the sale?  The	West  BengalGovernment  thought  it	 was.  We think	 that  this  is	 thecorrect view to take.Now  the  " appropriate State " which alone can under  s.  9levy  and collect the tax under the Act has been defined  ins. 2(a) which is in these terms:Section	 2.-In	this  Act,  unless  the	 context   otherwiserequires,--(a)  " appropriate State " means-(i)  in	 relation to a dealer who has one or more places  ofbusiness situate in the same State, that State;410(ii) in	 relation to a dealer who has one or more places  ofbusiness situate in different States, every such State	withrespect	 to the place or places of business  situate  withinits territory ;Explanation.-" Place of business " means-(i)  in the case of a sale of goods in the course of  inter-State trade or commerce falling within clause (a) of section3, the place from which the goods have been moved by  reasonof such sale,(ii) in the case of any such sale falling within clause	 (b)of s. 3, the place where the sale is effected ;So   the  "  appropriate  State	 "  is	that  within   whoseterritories the dealer has his place of business.  The placeof  business  has  however to be decided  in  each  case  byreference  to  the  kind of sale.  The	effect	of  s.	2(a)appears to be this: If the sale is of the kind mentioned  incl.  (a)  of s. 3, the " appropriate State "  is  that	fromwhich the goods have been moved by reason of the contract ofsale, while if the sale is of the kind mentioned in cl.	 (b)of s. 3, the " appropriate State " is that " where the	saleis effected ".We are in this case concerned only with sales under el.	 (b)of s. 3, and the " appropriate State " in respect of such  asale  has to be decided from cl. (ii) of the Explanation  ins.  2(a).   Under that clause the " appropriate State  "  inrespect	 of  such a sale is the State " where  the  sale  iseffected ".  The question is, does this definition by itselfgive  sufficient  guidance to ascertain	 the  "	 appropriateState " ?The learned counsel for the State of Bihar contends that thewords  "  where the sale is effected " do not  indicate	 anyplace  of  sale	 and  are not intended	to  indicate  the  "appropriate State ". The " appropriate State ", according tohim,  has  to  be decided by resort to s.  4  2)  which	 wasintended  to be explanatory of Explanation (ii) in s.  2(a).We  will consider s. 4(2) a little later.  But before we  dothat, let us examine the argument that the words " where thesale is effected " in cl. (ii) of the explanation in s. 2(a)do not indicate any place or the " appropriate State ".The  learned  counsel  gave several reasons  why  the  words"where the sale is effected" in cl. (ii) of the			    411Explanation in s. 2(a) cannot indicate any place.  First, hereferred  to  certain  observations in State  of  Bombay  v.United	Motors	(India)	 Ltd. (1)  indicating  that  it	 wasdifficult  to localise, that is, to fix the place  where,  asale  in  the course of inter-State trade takes	 place.	  Healso  said  that transfer of property is the creation  of  ajural  relation and it is not possible to say where a  juralrelation   is	created.   Lastly,  he	 referred   to	 theobservations of Lord Loreburn, L. C., in Badische Anilin UndSoda  Fabrik  v. Hickson (2) that, " if you must  decide  inwhat  country  an appropriation of goods  by  consent  takesplace,	it takes place not where the consent is	 given,	 butwhere  the  goods are at the time situate  ".  Therefore  hecontended  that the words " where the sale is effected "  donot point to any particular place of sale.In our opinion, these reasons have no application to a case,where a statute fixes the place of sale.  The difficulty  inthe cases mentioned above was not that there was no place ofsale  at all, sale being a jural concept, but which  of	 theseveral	 places in which a sale could be said to have  takenplace,	was the correct one to select.	No  such  difficultyarises	where the statute fixes the place of sale.  That  iswhat  the  Act before us admittedly purports to do,  in	 oneview  by cl. (ii) of the Explanation in s. 2(a) and  in	 theother view by s. 4(2).Clause	(ii) of that Explanation says in effect that in	 thecase  of  any  sale  falling within cl.	 (b)  of  s.  3	 theappropriate  State  shall  be the State where  the  sale  iseffected.  Now, a sale under s. 3(b) is a sale effected " bya transfer of documents of title.  The effect " is the sale;the  mode  in which the " effect " is produced is by  the  "transfer  of documents of title".  As soon as this mode	 hascompleted  itself the " effect " has been produced.   It  issimple syllogism that the place where the mode is completed,that is, the transfer of documents of title takes place,  isthe place where the effect is produced, that is, the sale iseffected.   The act constituting the mode of  effecting	 thesale  being prescribed, the sale must be taken to have	beeneffected where(1) [1953] S.C.R. 1069.	       (2) [1906] A.C. 419,421.53412that act is performed.	Clause (ii) of the Explanation in s.2(a),  therefore,  itself  fixes the place of  sale  and  noquestion  of  any difficulty in fixing it  arises.   In	 ourview, a sale contemplated by s. 3(b) is effected within	 theState in which the documents of title to the goods sold	 aretransferred resulting in a transfer of the property in	them;  that State is the " appropriate State in respect of	suchsale.In  this view of the matter no question of resorting  to  s.4(2)  for  fixing the place where a sale under	s.  3(b)  iseffected,  arises.  The place of that sale is fixed  by	 el.(ii) of the explanation in s. 2(a) itself.It  also  appears  to us to be	absolutely  clear  that	 thepurpose	 of  s. 4(2) was not to fix the place where  a	saleunder  s.  3(b)	 can be said to	 have  taken  effect.	Thatsection is in these terms:Section 4. When is a sale or purchase of goods said to	takeplace outside a State.-(1)  Subject to the provisions contained in section 3,	whena sale or purchase of goods is determined in accordance withsub-section  (2) to take place inside a State, such sale  orpurchase  shall	 be deemed to have taken place	outside	 allother States.(2)  A	sale  or purchase of goods shall be deemed  to	takeplace inside a State if the goods are within the State-(a)  in	 the case of specific or ascertained goods,  at	 thetime the contract of sale is made; and(b)  in	 the case of unascertained or future goods,  at	 thetime  of their appropriation to the contract of sale by	 theseller or by the buyer, whether assent of the other party isprior or subsequent to such appropriation.First,	what the learned counsel for the petitioner and	 theState of Bihar say is that s. 4(2) is really an	 explanationto  cl. (ii) of the Explanation in s. 2(a); el. (ii) of	 theExplanation in s. 2(a) does not say where a sale is effectedand the " place " is explained by sub-sec. (2) of s. 4. Now,sub-sec.  (2) of s. 4 does not purport to be an	 explanationto  clause (ii) of the explanation in s. 2(a); it  does	 notrefer  to  s. 2(a) at all.  It would be a  strange  mode  ofenacting a statute to have			    413an  explanation	 to  another explanation  and  that  too  inanother	 part of the statute dealing, as we shall  presentlyshow, with a different matter.	Further sub-cl. (ii) of	 theExplanation  in s. 2(a) specifies the place of business	 ands.  4(2)  specifies  a State; so the  latter  cannot  be  anexplanation of the former.Secondly s. 4(2) states when a sale shall be deemed to	takeplace  " inside a State ". In order however to say  where  asale  takes  place in the course of interState trade  it  isinappropriate to talk of it as taking place " inside a State".  A sale in the course of interState trade from  its	verynature,	 has  nothing to do with sales inside or  outside  aState.	 It  contemplates commercial activities	 which	takeplace in more than one State.Thirdly,  s. 4 is not really defining when a sale  shall  bedeemed	to take place inside a State.  It is  only  definingwhen  a sale shall be deemed to take place outside a  State.It does so by saying that when a sale is to be deemed to  beinside	any State under sub-see. (2), it shall be deemed  tohave taken place outside all other States.  Sub-section	 (2)provides when a sale shall be deemed to take place inside  aState only for the purpose of showing that it shall then  bedeemed	to have then taken place outside all  other  States,and  for no other purpose.  This is clear from	the  sectionitself and is made further clear by the heading to the	sec-tion.  It seems to us that the heading is really a  preambleto  the	 section giving a key to its interpretation  as	 wasfound to be the case in Martins v. Fowler (1).Fourthly,  s. 4 is expressly made subject to s. 3. This	 canonly mean that in case any conflict between the two sectionsappears, s. 3 would prevail.  Now these two sections  definetwo  kinds of sale, namely, a sale in the course  of  inter-State  trade and a sale taking place outside a State.  If  asale  happens to come under both definitions, it would	haveto be taken as a sale in the course of inter-State trade fors. 4 has been made subject to s. 3. That being so, it  wouldbe  impossible to hold that s. 4(2) indicates where  a	salefailing under s. 3(b) is to be held to have been effected.Lastly it seems clear to us that s. 4 was enacted(1)  [1926] A. C. 746, 750.414under the power conferred on the Parliament by.	 Art. 286(2)to  formulate principles for determining when a	 sale  takesplace  "  outside a State ", the State	legislatures  havingbeen  prevented by el. (1) of that Article from passing	 anylaw  imposing  tax  on such a sale.  This is  clear  from  aconsideration  of ss. 3, 4 and 5 which	together  constituteChapter II of the Act.	Section 5 states when a sale is saidto take place in the course of export or import.  The  powerto  enact  this section is also derived	 from  Art.  286(2).Section	 3 formulates the principles for determining when  asale  is  said to take place in the  course  of	 inter-Statetrade  and  it is enacted under the power for  that  purposecontained  in Art. 269(3).  The enactments in that  Chapter,as  its heading shows, were for " formulation of  principlesfor determining when a sale or purchase of goods takes placein the course of inter-State trade, or outside a State or inthe  course of export or import" and were made	under  Arts.269(3)	and 286(2), as already stated.	We think that it  islegitimate  to	refer  to  the heading	of  Chapter  11	 forascertaining  the  intention  of  the  legislature  on	 theprinciples  stated  by	the Judicial  Committee	 in  TorontoCorporation v. Toronto Railway(1) in these words:"  This	 clause is the last of a fasciculus,  of  which	 theheading	 is " Track, & c., and Railways ", and, as was	heldin  Hammersmith Ry.  Co. v. Brand, such a heading is  to  beregarded  as  giving the key to the  interpretation  of	 theclauses ranged under it, unless the wording is	inconsistentwith such interpretation ".  The interpretation that we	 puton  s,	4  in  the light of  the  heading,  is	clearly	 notinconsistent  with  the	 wording of  that  section.   It  isadmitted  that	s.  5  has  no	connection  with  the  otherprovisions  in	the  Act and is	 clearly  only	laying	downprinciples  for determining when a sale can be said to	havetaken place in the course of import of goods into or  exportof goods out of, India.	 It would be legitimate to hold thatsimilarly s. 4 was enacted only for the purpose of  formula-ting principles for determining when a sale is said to	takeplace  outside a State and not for any other  purpose.	 Forall these reasons, we hold that sub-s. (2) of(1)  [1907] A. C. 315, 324			    415s.   4	was  not  enacted  for determining  which  is  an  "appropriate State " to collect the tax in the case of a salefalling under cl. (b) of s. 3.It  was argued on behalf of the Government of Bihar that  inany case the sales of the petitioner from Jamshedpur do	 notcome under el. (b) of s. 3 because all such sales were	madepursuant to the permit granted under the provisions of	Iron&  Steel (Control) Order, 1956, issued under  the  EssentialSupplies  Act,	1955,  the directions in  which	 permit	 thepetitioner was bound to carry out.  It appears that iron andsteel being controlled commodities, they could not under theprovisions  of the Act and Order aforesaid, be sold  withoutthe  permission	 of  the Iron & Steel  Controller.   It	 wascontended  that	 when on a contract made  pursuant  to	suchpermission, the petitioner loaded the goods into the railwaywagons	at Jamshedpur, the property in them passed under  s.23(1) of the Sale of Goods Act to the purchaser, because, inview  of the Iron & Steel (Control) Order, 1956,  the  goodsbecame	unconditionally appropriated to the contract by	 theseller	with  the  assent of the buyer.	 The  case  of	Com-missioner  of Sales Tax, Bihar v. New India Sugar Mills	 (1)was cited as authority for this view.  This case was decidedunder  a different Order.  We do not propose to go into	 thequestion  whether  in  any  particular	sale  property	 wastransferred  from the seller to the buyer or how  and  when.That  point  can  be taken  before  the	 appropriate  taxingauthorities.It appears to us that the Taxing Officer of the West  BengalGovernment  took the same view of s. 3(b) as we	 have  done.He  said  that	in the case of a sale under  s.	 3(b)  "  noproperty  in the goods passes unless the documents of  titleto  the	 goods	are in the hands of the	 buyer".   This,  ofcourse, means that in the case of a sale under cl. (b) of s.3  the property in the goods sold passes by the transfer  ofdocuments of title to them.  The Taxing Officer was  furtherclearly	 contemplating	the transfer of documents  of  titletaking	 place	during	the  movement  of  the	goods	fromJamshedpur  to places in West Bengal.  So far, it  seems  tous, his view is correct and unexceptionable.  He(1)  10 Sales Tax Cases 74.416however proceeded to state that " even if the documents	 arein  the	 name  of  the buyer  as  consignee  but  these	 arephysically  transferred	 to the buyer in West  Bengal,	thenthat  sale is taxable in West Bengal ". We think  that	thiswas  not a correct view to take.  The transfer of  documentsof  title  to the goods sold can pass the property  in	themonly  if  the parties agree that that would be	the  result.Therefore, the Taxing Officer of the West Bengal  Governmenthad further to bear in mind the question whether the partieshad agreed that physical delivery of the documents of  titleto  the goods would pass the property in them.	He does	 notseem  to have done this.  In the other case also  where	 thedocuments  of  title  are transferred  to  the	buyer  afterendorsement,  the same test has to be kept in mind,  namely,that such transfer would pass the property in the goods onlyif  the parties agreed that   would happen.   It,  therefore,seems  to  us  that  the  West	Bengal	Government's  TaxingOfficers  order may not have been completely  in  consonancewith  s. 3(b).	In so far as it purported to levy a  tax  onsales  where the documents of title are already in the	nameof  the buyer simply because such documents had been  trans-ferred	in West Bengal, it may have gone outside the  limitsof  s.	3(b).  The order of assessment made  by	 the  TaxingOfficer	 of  the Government of West Bengal in this  case  ishence liable to be set aside.We  accordingly	 set  aside the order  made  by	 the  TaxingOfficer	 of  the Government of West Bengal  on	October	 21,1959,  assessing the petitioner to a tax of  Rs.  41,14,718-12nP.	The Government of West Bengal will be at liberty  toproceed	  to  assess  the  tax	afresh	in  terms   of	 theinterpretation put on s. 3 by us in this judgment.We do not think it fit to make any order as to the costs  ofthis petition.BY COURT: In view of the majority judgment of the Court, thepetition  is allowed with costs, and it is directed  that  awrit  of  certiorari  will  issue  quashing  the  order	  ofassessment made by the Commercial Tax Officer, Lyons  Range,Calcutta.			       Petition allowed.417