PETITIONER:MAHARANA SHRI JAYAVANTSINHJI,RANMALSINHJI	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BOMBAY AND OTHERS(and connected petition)DATE OF JUDGMENT:16/12/1958BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR  547		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 911ACT:Taluqdari   Tenure,  Abolition	of-Liability  of   erstwhileTaluqdar  to Pay land revenue assessment-Jama,	if  distinctfrom such assessment-Bombay Taluqdari Tenure Abolition	Act,1949 (Bom.  LXI of 1949), S. 5(2)-Gujrat Taluqdars Act, 1888(Bom.	VI  of 1888), SS. 22, 23-Bombay Land  Revenue  Code,1879 (Bom.  V of 1879), S. 117R.HEADNOTE:The  appellants were Taluqdars owning taluqdari villages  inDistrict Ahmedabad, State of Bombay.  In 1922-23 there was arevision settlement of land revenue and the aggregate sum ofland revenue payable by each taluqdari estate was fixed.  In1925-26, in exercise of the powers conferred by s. 22 of theGujrat	 Taluqdars  Act,  1888	(Bom.	VI  of	1888),	 theGovernment  of	Bombay	ascertained and	 declared  the	jamapayable by each taluq which was much less than the amount ofland revenue and the said declaration was to remain in forcefor  thirty years.  With the passing in 1949 of	 the  BombayTaluqdari Abolition Act, 1949, the taluqdari estates of	 theappellants  were abolished and they became occupants of	 thelands and, after the expiry of the thirty years, were calledupon  to pay the full land revenue assessment in respect  ofthe  lands.   It was contended on behalf of  the  appellantsthat  by reason of s. II7R of the Bombay Land Revenue  Code,i879, the declaration made by the Governor in council fixingthe  amount  of	 jama for a period  of	thirty	years  wouldcontinue to be in force even after the expiry of that periodtill  a revision settlement was made and the Government	 wasprecluded  from demanding the higher amount of revenue	tillthen.Held, that the contention must fail.The jama payable by the Taluqdars under S. 22 Of the  GujratTaluqdars   Act,  1888,	 was  distinct	from   the   revenueassessment  of	land comprised in the taluqdari	 estate	 andthey  could not be equated.  The declaration under s. 22  orthe  fixation of the jama under S. 23(1) of the Act  was  inthe  nature  of	 a  settlement	entered	 into  between	 theGovernment on the one hand and the Taluqdar on the other butthat was no settlement of land revenue within the meaning ofs. II7R of the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879.As s. 5(2) (b) of the Bombay Taluqdari Tenure Abolition Act,1949,  expressly saved the settlement made under S.  23	 andthe912declaration  under  s. 22 of the Gujrat Taluqdars  Act,	 theappellants were liable to pay the entire land revenue  afterthe expiry Of 30 years, i.e., from the year 1955-56.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 254 to	 256of 1958.Appeals by special leave from the judgment and orders  datedMay 14, 1956, and June 15, 1956, of the Bombay High Court inSpecial Civil Applications Nos. 1270, 1373 and 1374 of 1956.ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petitions No& IS and 66 of 1957.Petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forthe enforcement of fundamental rights.A.   V.	 Viswanatha  Sastri  and  S.  S.  Shukla,  for	 theappellants and the petitioners.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, H. J.  Umrigarand B. H. Dhebar, for the respondents.1958.  December 16.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbySUBBA RAO, J.-These are three appeals by Special Leave	fromthe  judgment  of  the High Court of  Judicature  at  Bombaydismissing  the petitions filed by the appellants for  Writsin  the	 nature of Prohibition restraining  the	 respondentsfrom  realising from the appellants land revenue in  respectof  their estates at an enhanced rate for the year  1955-56.The petitioners in the two petitions also asked for  similarrelief against the respondents.	 The appeals as well as	 theWrit Petitions were heard together, as they raised a  commonquestion of law.The  material facts in Civil Appeal No. 254 of 1958  may  bebriefly stated: The appellant was a taluqdar owning  severaltaluqdari villages situate in the Dholka Taluka of AhmedabadDistrict.   In	the  year  1922-23  there  was	a   revisionsettlement of land revenue of the lands situate in the	saidtaluka	including the said taluqdari villages.	 Under	thatsettlement  the	 aggregate of the land	revenue	 payable  inrespect	 of  the  lands	 comprised  in	the  said  taluqdarivillages was fixed in a sum of Rs. 62,627-2-6.	In the	year1925-26, in exercise of the powers conferred under913s.22  of the Gujarat Taluqdars Act, 1888 (Bom.	VI of  1888)(hereinafter  referred	to  as	the  Taluqdars'	 Act),	 theGovernment of Bombay ascertained and declared that a jama ofRs. 32,643-3-0 was payable in respect of the said  taluqdarivillages and the said declaration was to remain in force fora period of thirty years from the year 1925-26.	 In the year1949,  the  Bombay Legislature passed the  Bombay  TaluqdariAbolition   Act,  1949,	 hereinafter  referred	to  as	 theAbolition Act, and it came into force on or about August 15,1950.	By s. 3 of the Abolition Act, taluqdari	 tenure	 wasabolished and all the incidents of the said tenure attachingto   any  land	comprised  in  the  taluqdari  estate	wereextinguished.  Under the Abolition Act, the appellant becamean  occupant of the lands.  After the expiry of	 the  thirtyyear  period, the talatis of the respective villages  calledupon  the appellant to pay the full land revenue  assessmentin respect of the lands comprised in the said villages.	 Theappellant  contending  that he was only liable to  pay	jamadeclared  to be payable by him by the Government in  1925-26filed  a Writ Petition in the High Court of Bombay  for	 theaforesaid relief.The  appellant	in  Civil  Appeal No. 255  of  1958  was  a;taluqdar owning several taluqdari villages situate in Dholkaand Dhandhulka Talukas of Ahmedabad District.  The facts  inthis case are similar to those given in Civil Appeal No. 254of  1958  except  in  regard  to  the  fact  that  the	jamaascertained  and declared to be payable by the appellant  inthis appeal by the Government in 1925-26 was about Rs. 5,734as against the settlement amount of Rs. 14,452-11-0.The appellant in Civil Appeal No. 256 of 1958 was a taluqdarowning	several taluqdari villages situate in Dholka  Talukain  Ahmedabad District.	 The facts in this appeal  also	 aresimilar	 to those in the other two except in regard  to	 thefact  that  in	this case  the	Government  ascertained	 anddeclared the jama payable by the appellant to be Rs.  21,877as against the settlement amount of Rs. 44,551.115914Writ Petition No. 66 of 1957 filed by the appellant in C. A.No. 254 of 1958 relates to the demand of enhanced revenue inrespect of his Sanad estate.  The facts in this petition aresimilar	 to those in the appeals except that the  Governmentascertained  and  declared the jama payable by	him  at	 Rs.20,886 as against the settlement amount of Rs.	48,247-13-0.The  Writ Petition relates to the demand made for  the	year1956-57.Writ   Petition	 No.  18  of  1957  was	 filed	 by   ThakurVikramsinhji   Manharsinhji  of	 Gumph	 Estate,   AhmedabadDistrict,  Bombay State, who was a taluqdar of Gumph  Estatein   Ahmedabad	District  comprising  of   seven   taluqdarivillages.   The facts in this petition also are	 similar  tothose  in the appeals.	In, this case the  jama	 ascertainedand  declared was Rs. 16,499-4-0 whereas the assessment	 wasfixed  at Rs. 30,223-12-0.  This Writ Petition also  relatesto the demand made for the year 1955-56.The  appellants	 in the appeals and the petitioners  in	 theWrit   Petitions  aforesaid  will  be,	for  the   sake	  ofconvenience, described hereafter as the appellants.Mr.  A.	 V. Viswanatha Sastri, the learned Counsel  for	 theappellants, contends that the jama ascertained and  declaredto  be due from the appellants for a period of thirty  yearswas  fixed at the revenue settlement, that by reason  of  s.117R  of  the Bombay Land Revenue  Code,  1879	(hereinafterreferred  to as the Code), they were liable to pay only	 thesaid  assessment  till	there  was  re-settlement  and	thattherefore the respondents have no right to make a demand foran  amount higher than that declared to be due from them  in1925-26.   The	learned	 Solicitor  General  counters	thisargument by contending that under the Taluqdars' Act,  therewas an essential distinction between revenue settlement	 andthe  ascertainment and declaration of the jama;	 that  afterthe Abolition Act, the amount of jama was payable only	tillthe expiry of the thirty year period and that thereafter theappellants who bad become mere occupants would be liable  topay  the  entire land revenue assessment  already  fixed  inrespect of those lands.	 The question915is which of the two contentions should prevail having regardto  the	 relevant  provisions of  the  Taluqdars'  Act,	 theAbolition Act and the Code.It  will be convenient to read the relevant provisions	fromthe two Acts.GUJARAT TALUQDARS ACT, 1888:" 2. (1) In this Act, unless there be something repugnant inthe subject or context,-(a) ........................................................(b) ........................................................(c) " jama " means land revenue payable by a taluqdar to theProvincial  Government.4. It shall be lawful for the Provincial Government wheneverit  may	 seem  expedient, to direct a revenue  survey  or  arevised	 revenue survey of any taluqdari estate,  under	 theprovisions of the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879, applicableto such survey.5.  The settlement register prepared by the  Survey  Officerunder section 108 of the said Code on the occasion of makingany  such  survey shall, unless	 the  Provincial  Governmentotherwise  direct  contain,  in	 lieu  of  the	 particularsspecified  in  the said section, the  following	 particulars(namely) :-(a) the area and the assessment of each surveynumber.22.(1)	If a taluqdar's estate, or any portion	thereof,  isnot  wholly  or partially exempt from  landrevenue  and	 itsliability  to  payment	of land-revenue is  not	 subject  tospecial	 conditions  or restrictions, the  jama	 payable  toGovernment  in	respect	 of such estate	 or  person  thereofshall, if a survey-settlement has been extended thereto,  bethe   aggregate	 of  the  surveyassessments  of	 the   landscomposing  such estate or such portion thereof,	 minus	suchdeduction, if any, as Government shall in each case direct.(2)  The Governor in Council may declare the amount of	jamaso  ascertained	 fixed	for any term  not  exceeding  thirtyyears."BOMBAY TALUQDARI TENURE ABOLITION ACT, LXII of 1949:916"3.With	 effect from the date on which this Act	 comes	intoforce,-(i)the tuluqdari tenure shall wherever it prevails be deemedto have been abolished; and(ii)save as expressly provided by or under the provisions ofthis Act, all the incidents of the said tenure attaching  toany land comprised in a taluqdari estate shall be deemed  tohave been extinguished.(4)All	revenue	 surveys  or  revised  revenue	surveys	  oftaluqdari  estates  directed by the State  Government  undersection	 4  of the Taluqdars Act and  all  settlements	madeshall  be deemed to have been made under Chapters  VIII	 andVIII-A	of the Code and the settlement registers  and  otherrecords	 prepared  of such surveys shall be deemed  to	havebeen  prepared	under the corresponding	 provisions  of	 theCode.(5)(1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2),-(a)all	taluqdari  lands  are and shall	 be  liable  to	 thepayment	 of land revenue in accordance with the	 provisions.of the Code and the rules made thereunder, and(b)  a taluqdar holding any taluqdari land or a cadet  of  ataluqdar's  family holding any taluqdari  land	hereditarilyfor  the  purpose  of maintenance,  immediately	 before	 thecoming	into  force of this Act, shall be deemed  to  be  anoccupant within the meaning of the Code or any other law forthe time being in force.(2)Nothing in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to affect-(b)the	right  of  any person to pay  jama  only  under	 anyagreement or settlement recognised under section 23 or undera declaration under section 22 of the Taluqdars' Act so longas  such  agreement, settlement or  declaration	 remains  inforce under the provisions ofthis Act.(17)  The  enactments specified in Schedule  II	 are  herebyrepealed:  Provided  that the repeal of the  said  enactmentshall not in any way be deemed to affect,-(a)  .......................................................917(b).........................................................(c)  any  declaration made or any  agreement  or  settlementrecognised,  any partition confirmed and any  management  ofthe taluqdari estate assumed under the provisions of any  ofthe enactments hereby repealed,and  any  proceedings  connected  with	such  partition	  ormanagement  instituted	before the aforesaid date  shall  becontinued  and	disposed  of as if this	 Act  had  not	beenpassed."The  position emerging from the aforesaid provisions may  besummarized  thus:  The Taluqdars' Act was  enacted  to	makespecial	 provision  for the revenue  administration  of	 theestates	 held  by  certain  superior  land-holders  in	 thedistricts of Ahmedabad, Kaira, Broach and the Panch  Mahals.Section	 4  enabled  the Governor in  Council  to  direct  arevenue	 survey or revised revenue survey of  any  taluqdariestate under the provisions of the Bombay Land Revenue Code.In  regard to such an estate, survey would be made under  s.108 of the Code and the Settlement Officer would I prepare aRegister to be called the " Settlement Register which  wouldcontain the particulars mentioned in s. 5 of the  Taluqdars'Act  in lieu of the particulars specified in s. 108  of	 theCode.	Under s. 22 of the Taluqdars' Act, the jama  payableby  a taluqdar would be the aggregate of the survey  assess-ments of the lands compoSING sucH an estate or such  portionthereof minus such deduction, if any, that the Government ineach  case should direct.  Under sub-s. 2, the	Governor  inCouncil	 was  empowered to declare the jama  so	 ascertainedfixed for any term not exceeding thirty years.	In 1949, thetaluqdari  tenure  was	abolished by  the  Bombay  TaluqdariTenure	Abolition  Act.	 By s. 5 of the Abolition  Act,	 thetaluqdars  became occupants within the meaning of the  Code,i.e., they were deemed to be holders in actual possession ofunalienated  lands other than the tenants; with	 the  resultthat  all the taluqdari lands became liable to, the  paymentof  land  revenue in accordance with the provisions  of	 theCode and the rules made thereunder.918Sub-section  2 of s. 5 saved the right of any person to	 payjama only under an agreement or settlement recognized  unders.  23 or a declaration made under s. 22 of  the  Taluqdars'Act  so	 long as such agreement, settlement  or	 declarationremained  in force.  Shortly stated, the combined effect  ofthe  provisions was that the taluqdari tenure was  abolishedand that the taluqdar became the occupant with liability  topay  land revenue in accordance with the provisions  of	 theCode.If  there  was	no other  relevant  provision  indicating  acontrary  intention,  it  is  manifest	from  the  aforesaidsummary	 that  the appellants would be liable  to  pay	landrevenue in accordance with the provisions of the Code  afterthe period fixed in the declaration expired, i.e., from	 theyear 1955-1956.The  learned  Counsel for the appellants  contends  that  byreason	of s. 117R of the Code, the declaration made by	 theGovernor in Council fixing the amount of jama, for a  periodof thirty years would continue to be in force even after theexpiry	of  the said period till a revision  settlement	 wasmade  and  therefore the saving clause	would  preclude	 theGovernment from demanding higher amount of revenue than	 thejama ascertained and fixed in the declaration till the	dateof the revised settlement.  Section 117R of the Code reads:"  All	settlements  of land  revenue  heretofore  made	 andintroduced  and in force at the date of the commencement  ofthe Bombay Land Revenue Code (Amendment) Act, 1939, shall bedeemed	to have been made and introduced in accordance	withthe  provisions of this Chapter and  shall,  notwithstandinganything contained in section 117E, be deemed to continue toremain	in  force  until  the  introduction  of	 a  revisionsettlement."If  the	 declaration  of  the  Governor	 in  Council  is   asettlement  of	land  revenue within  the  meaning  of	thissection,  it would continue to be in force till	 the  intro-duction	 of  the  revision settlement.	 It  is,  therefore,necessary to ascertain the meaning of the words " settlementof land revenue " in the section.  Settlement is defined  bys. 117C(1) to mean the result. of the919operations  conducted  in a zone in order to  determine	 theland   revenue	assessment.   What  is	the  scope  of	 theoperations  conducted  to arrive at the said result  ?	 Theprovisions  of Ch.  VIII-A lay down the successive steps  tobe  followed  by the authorities concerned to fix  the	landrevenue.  -Under  s. 117D, the Government may  at  any	timedirect a settlement of the land revenue of any land of whichrevenue	 survey	 has been made under s. 95 or not.   It	 mayalso  direct  at any time a revised settlement of  the	landrevenue	 of such lands.	 A settlement once made	 remains  inforce  for  a  period  of  thirty  years  unless  the  StateGovernment  directs that it should remain in force  for	 anyperiod	less than thirty years.	 In a case where  a  revisedsettlement of land revenue has not been made for one  reasonor  other,  the	 Government  may  extend  the  term  of	 thesettlement  for such period as it may think fit.   The	landrevenue assessment shall be determined by dividing the landsto  be settled into different groups and fixing	 a  standardrate  for  each group.	Groups are ordinarily  formed  on  aconsideration	of   various  factors	such   as   physicalconfiguration,	 climate,  rainfall,  price  and  yield	  ofprincipal  crop	 and other  relevant  considerations.	Landrevenue of individual survey numbers and sub-divisions shallbe  based  on their classification and value in	 the  mannerprescribed.   The Settlement Officer, who is entrusted	withthe  duty  of  making  the  settlement,	 shall	follow	 theprescribed procedure and fix a standard rate for each  classof  land  in each group on a consideration of  the  relevantfactors.   A  hierarchy	 of Tribunals are  created  for	 thepersons aggrieved to take the matter in appeal.	 Finally theState Government passes orders approving the standard  ratesor  varying  them.  After the State  Government	 has  passedorders	and  the notice of the same has been  given  in	 theprescribed  manner, settlement will be deemed to  have	beenintroduced  and	 land revenue according to  such  settlementwill  be levied from such date as the State  Government	 maydirect.	  It will be seen from the aforesaid summary of	 thescheme of land revenue settlement that land revenue is fixedfor each land, having regard to the group920within which it falls.	All such settlements of	 landrevenuemade before the Bombay Land Revenue (Amendment) Code,  1939,will be deemed to remain in force until the introduction  ofa revised settlement.Part  II  of  the Taluqdars' Act  provided  for	 survey	 andsettlement.  Under s. 4 of the Taluqdars' Act, the  Governorin  Council might direct a revenue survey of  the  taluqdariestate	under  the provisions of the Code.   The  settlementregister  prepared  under  that Code  was  directed  containparticulars mentioned in s. 5 such as area and assessment ofsuch  survey-number,  etc.   Presumably, under	that  Act  asettlement  was made in regard to the taluqdari estates	 andsettlement registers were prepared fixing the assessment  ofeach  survey-number.  That settlement would certainly  be  asettlement of land revenue within the meaning of s. 117R  ofthe  Code  and	that would continue to be in  force  till  aresettlement was made.Part   IV   of	the  Taluqdars'	 Act  dealt   with   RevenueAdministration.	  Section 22 laid down that in a case  wheresurvey-settlement  had been extended to a taluqdari  estate,the jama payable by the taluqdar to Government in respect ofsuch  an  estate  shall	 be the	 aggregate  of	the  survey-assessments  of	 the  lands composing such  estate  or	suchportion thereof minus such deduction, if any, as  Governmentshall  direct in each case.  Under sub-s. (2) of s. 22,	 theGovernor  in  Council could declare the amount	of  jama  soascertained  fixed for any term not exceeding thirty  years.Under  s.  23, nothing in the Act was deemed to	 affect	 thevalidity of any agreement thereto-before entered into by  orwith  a taluqdar and still in force as to the amount of	 hisjama, nor of any settlement of the amount of jama made by orunder the orders of Government for a term of years and stillin force.  Sections 22 and 23 provided for the	arrangementsentered	 into  or to be entered into with  the	Governor  inCouncil	 in  respect of the jama payable by  the  taluqdars.Section	 23 saved the previous agreements or settlements  inrespect	 of the jama.  Section 22 authorised the  Governmentto  fix	 the  jama, having regard to the  aggregate  of	 thesurvey assessments of the lands and to declare921the  same fixed for a period of years not exceeding  thirty.The declaration- under a. 22 or the agreement or  settlementof jama mentioned in s. 23(1) might be described broadly  asa  settlement  entered	into between the  Government  and  ataluqdar but it was not a settlement of land-revenue  withinthe  meaning  of  S. 117R of the  Code,	 for  settlement  ofrevenue	 was the result of operations carried on in  respectof  different classes of lands in the manner  prescribed  byCh.   VIII.  A of the Code or the settlement in	 respect  ofsuch  lands in accordance with the pre-existing laws it	 wasbeyond	the  scope of Ch.  VIII-A to  ascertain'  the  jama,though the rates fixed under such a settlement were taken asthe basis by the Government in ascertaining the jama payableby  the	 taluqdar.   The jama payable by  the  taluqdar	 wasdistinct  from the revenue assessment of the land  comprisedin the taluqdari estate and they could not be equated.Section 17 of the Abolition Act repealed the Taluqdars'	 Actand expressly provided that the repeal of the said enactmentshall  not affect any declaration made or any  agreement  orsettlement  recognized in respect of the taluqdari  estates.Section	 5(2) (b) of the Abolition Act expressly  saved	 theagreement  or  settlement  recognized  under  s.  23  or   adeclaration  made under s. 22 from the operation of the	 Acttill  such agreement, settlement or declaration remained  inforce.	It is, therefore, manifest that the declaration madeunder  the  Taluqdars' Act enured to the  advantage  of	 thetaluqdars, notwithstanding the repeal of the Taluqdars' Act,till such time it was in force.	 When the Abolition Act cameinto  force,  the time mentioned in the declaration  in	 thecases  before  us, i.e., thirty years, had not run  out	 andtherefore  the declaration made by the Government under	 theTaluqdars' Act continued to be in force till 1955-56.  Afterthe expiry of the time, the appellants would be liableto paythe   entire  land-revenue  according  to   the	  settlementregister.The  entire scheme of the Abolition Act was that  after	 thepassing of that Act, the taluqdars became116922occupants with the result that they would be liable to	pay-land  revenue in accordance with the provisions of the	LandRevenue Code.  If sub-s. (2) was not inserted in s. 5,	theywould  be  liable  to  pay  land-revenue  under	 the   Code,notwithstanding	 the  declaration  made	 or  the   agreemententered	 into by the Government with them in regard  to	 thejama  payable by them.	Sub-section (2) was only enacted  topreserve  to them the concession till the period  fixed	 hadexpired.   We, therefore, hold that the declaration made  bythe  Governor in Council in 1925-26 expired in	1955-56	 andthe appellants became liable to pay the entire	land-revenueaccording to the settlement registers from the year 1955-56.In  the result, all the appeals and the Writ  Petitions	 aredismissed with costs., the State of Bombay and the Collectorof  Ahmedabad, who are the respondents herein,	getting	 oneset of hearing costs in all.Petitions dismissed.