PETITIONER:NARAIN DAS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESHDATE OF JUDGMENT:14/09/1960BENCH:ACT:Appeal-Forum--Single  Judge of High Court  exercising  civiljurisdiction  refusing to file complaint-Appeal, if lies  toSupreme Court-Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (V of  1898),ss.  195 and 476-B.HEADNOTE:During	the  pendency  of  a  civil  writ  petition  in	 theAllahabad  High Court, one N moved an application  under  s.476,  Code  of criminal Procedure, for	making	a  complaintunder  s. 93, Indian Penal Code, against T. A  single  judgewho  was  seized  of  the  case	 rejected  the	application.Thereupon  N  presented	 an  appeal  against  the  order  ofrejection of his application before the Supreme Court  underS. 476-B, Code of Criminal Procedure.Held,  that the appeal did not lie to the Supreme Court	 butthat  it lay to the Appellate Bench of the High Court.	 Thedecrees of a single judge of the High Court exercising civiljurisdiction  were ordinarily appealable to the	 High  Courtunder  cl.  1o of the Letters Patent of the  Allahabad	HighCourt	read  with  cl.	 13  of	 the  U.  P.   High   Courts(Amalgamation)	 Order,	  1948,	 and  as  such	 the   Courtconstituted  by the single judge was a court subordinate  tothe Appellate Bench of the High Court within the meaning  ofs. 195(3) of the Code.M.   S. Sheriff v. The State of Madras, [1954] S.C.R.  1144,distinguished.			    677JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL   APPELLATE   JURISDICTION:  In   the	 matter	  ofmaintainability of appeal in the Supreme Court of India.Mohan Lal Agarwala, for the petitioner.G.   C. Mathur and C. P. Lal, for the respondent No. 1.1960.	September  14.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byRAGHUBAR  DAYAL	 J.-Narain Das filed a civil  writ  petitionunder  Art.  226 of the Constitution in the  High  Court  ofJudicature   at	  Allahabad.   He  subsequently	  moved	  anapplication  under s. 476 of the Code of Criminal  Procedure(hereinafter  called the Code) for making a complaint  unders. 193, Indian Penal Code, against Phanish Tripathi allegingthat a certain statement in an affidavit filed by the latterwas  false.  The learned Judge who heard  this	application,holding that the appellant had not succeeded in showing thatany  portion of the affidavit of Tripathi filed on  May	 14,1959,  was  false, dismissed the same.	It is  against	thisorder of the learned Judge of the High Court that Narain Dashas  filed  this memorandum of appeal under s. 476B  of	 theCode.	The Registry has submitted the memorandum of  appealwith  a	 report	 for determining the  question	whether	 theappeal is competent in this Court.Section 476 of the Code is to be found in Ch.  XXXV which isheaded	'Proceedings in case of certain	 Offences  Affectingthe  Administration of Justice'.  Section 476  empowers	 anyCivil, Revenue or Criminal Court, when it is of the  opinionthat  it  is expedient in the interests of justice  that  aninquiry	 should be made into any offence referred to  in  s.195(1) (b) or (c) which appears to have been committed in orin relation to a proceeding before it, to file a  complaint,after  such  inquiry  as  it  thinks  necessary,  before   aMagistrate  of	 Class	having jurisdiction.   It  is  cleartherefore that where an offence referred to in s. 195(1) (b)or  (c) is committed in or in relation to a proceeding in  aCivil Court, an inquiry under s. 476 and. the action taken678on that inquiry by the Civil Court, are in relation to	thatproceeding itself.Any person aggrieved by an order of a Court under s. 476. of'the  Code  may appeal in view of s. 476B to  the  Court  towhich the former Court is subordinate within the, meaning ofs.  195(3),  which  provides that for the  purposes  of	 thesection	 a  Court shall be deemed to be subordinate  to	 theCourt  to which appeals ordinarily lie from  the  appealabledecrees	 or sentences of such former Court, or, in the	caseof  a  Civil Court from whose decrees no  appeal  ordinarilylies,  to  the,, principal Court  having  ordinary  originalcivil	jurisdiction  within  the  local  limits  of   whosejurisdiction such Civil Court is situate.  The decrees of  asingle Judge of the High Court exercising civil jurisdictionare ordinarily appealable to the High Court under el. 10  ofthe Letters Patent of the Allahabad High Court read with el.13 of the United Provinces High Courts (Amalgamation) Order,1948.  It is true that the decision of a single Judge of theHigh  Court is as much a decision of the High Court  as	 thedecision of the appellate Bench hearing appeals against	 hisdecrees.  But the Court constituted, by the single Judge  isa Court subordinate to the appellate Bench of the High Courtin view of the artificial judicial subordination created  bythe  provisions of s. 195(3) to the effect' ' a Court  shallbe  deemed to be subordinate to the Court to  which  appealsordinarily  lie	 from the appeal. able decrees...'.  In	 thecase of a Civil Court which passes appealable decrees,	thatCourt  is  deemed to be subordinate to the  Court  to  whichappeals ordinarily lie from its decrees.  In' the case of  aCivil  Court from whose decrees no appeal  ordinarily  lies,that  Court  is deemed subordinate to  the  principal  Courthaving ordinary original civil jurisdiction within the locallimits	of whose jurisdiction the former Court	is  situate,even though normally such a Court will not be subordinate tothe   principal	  Court	 having	 ordinary   original   civiljurisdiction within whose local limits it is situate.It was urged by the learned Advocate for Narain Das that theorder of the learned single Judge under			    679s.476  did  not amount to a decree and	that  therefore	 theprovisions  of	s. 195(3) were not applicable.	 It  is	 notnecessary  for	us  to express an opinion  on  the  questionwhether	 the order of the learned single Judge under s.	 476is appealable under cl. 10 of the Letters Patent or not.   Aright  of  appeal  against  that  order	 is  given  by-	 theprovisions  of	s.  476	 B. The	 forum	of  appeal  is	alsodetermined by the provisions of s. 476B read with s. 195(3),and the only relevant consideration to determine the  properforum  for  an appeal against such an order  of	 the  singleJudge  is as to which Court the appeals	 against  appealabledecrees	 of the single Judge ordinarily lie.   Such  appealslie to the High Court under cl. 10 of the Letters Patent  ofthe Allahabad High Court, and therefore this appeal lies to'the High Court.Learned counsel for the appellant relied on the decision  ofthis  Court in M. S. Sheriff v. The State of Madras  (1)  insupport	 of his contention that an appeal under s. 476B	 layto this Court from the decision of a single Judge of a	HighCourt refusing to file a complaint under s. 476 of the Code.That  case is distinguishable as the question considered  inthat  case was whether an appeal lay to this Court under  s.476B of the Code from an order of a Division Bench of a HighCourt.	It did not deal with the question whether an  appeallay to this Court under s. 476B of the Code from an order ofa  single  Judge of the High Court.  No appeal lies  to	 theHigh  Court against the decision of a Division Bench of	 theHigh  Court  and therefore an appeal under s. 476B  from  anorder  of the Division Bench of the High Court must  lie  tothis Court.The fact that an appeal lies to this Court from the order ofa  single  Judge  of the High Court  where  the	 High  Courtcertifies, under Art. 132 of the Constitution, that the caseinvolves   a   substantial  question  of  law  as   to	 theinterpretation	of the Constitution, is of no assistance  tothe appellant's contention 'that this appeal is competent inthis  Court.   It cannot be said that an  appeal  ordinarilylies to this Court from the(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 1144.87680judgment  of a single Judge of a High Court because such  anappeal lies with a certificate granted under Art. 132.We  therefore hold that the present appeal does not  lie  tothis Court and that it lies to the High Court of  Judicatureat  Allahabad.	We therefore direct that the  memorandum  ofappeal be returned for presentation. to the proper Court.Appeal incompetent.