PETITIONER:M/S.  MAHARANA MILLS (PRIVATE) LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE INCOME-TAX OFFICER, PORBANDARDATE OF JUDGMENT:14/04/1959BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR  881		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 547 CITATOR INFO : R	    1961 SC 699	 (5) R	    1974 SC1369	 (8) F	    1975 SC 910	 (10,13,19)ACT:Income	Tax-Depreciation-Written Down Value-Computation	 forPrior  yeays-Whethey  binding  for  succeeding	 years-Freshcalculation   for   written   down   value   by	  income-taxOfficer--Notice to assessee-When essential-Indian Income-taxAct, 1922 (XI Of 1922), SS. 10(2)(vi), 35(1), 63.HEADNOTE:Sub-section (1) Of s. 35 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922,provided:   the	 Income-tax officer may	 on his	 own  motionrectify	 any  mistake  apparent from the  record  and  shallrectify	 any  such  mistake which has been  brought  to	 hisnotice by an assesses : Provided that no such  rectificationshall be made, having the effect of enhancing or reducing a548refund	unless...... the Income-tax Officer...... has  givennotice	to the assessee of his. intention so to do  and	 hasallowed him a reasonable opportunity of being heard."The  appellant, a private limited company, was	assessed  toincome-tax  for	 the  assessment  year	1953-54	 under	 theprovisions  of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, and  as	 perthe  assessment	 order dated June 30, 1955,  the  amount  ofdepreciation  allowed under s. 10(2)(vi) of the Act was	 Rs.3,48,1O5.   On	August	8,  1955,  the	appellant  made	  anapplication before the Income-tax Officer for  rectificationof  the order under S. 35 of the Act, pointing	out  certainmistakes  in  calculation  in  regard  to  the	depreciationamount.	  By his order of February 27, 1956, the  Income-taxOfficer	 corrected the written down value of  the  differentproperties  of	the  appellant	and  determined	 the   totalallowable  depreciation to be Rs. 1,94,074.   The  appellantchallenged  the	 order	dated  February	 27,  1956,  on	 thegrounds,  inter	 alia, (1) that he was not given  a  writtennotice	of  the intended rectification of the  written	downvalue,	(2) that the provisions under which  the  Income-taxOfficer acted, i.e., S. 35 of the Act, was not meant for thepurpose	 of making corrections in written down	values,	 thecorrect	 provision being s. 34 which specifically refers  toexcessive  depreciation, and (3) that, in any case,  he	 hadexceeded  his  jurisdiction  under  s.	35  of	the  Act  incalculating  the depreciation on the written down  value  ofthe  buildings	and machinery of the  appellant	 acting	 suomotu,  and that he could correct only those  mistakes  whichhad  been pointed out by it.  It was found that	 notice	 wasgiven to the appellant of the intended determination of	 thewritten down value, though it was not a written notice,	 andthat the matter was discussed with its representative.Held  :	 (i) that the object of the provision as  to  noticeunder s.  35 Of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, is that  noorder should be	    passed  to the detriment of an  assesseewithout affording him an opportunity  for  being  heard	 andthat  if,  as  a matter of fact,the  assessee  knew  of	 theproceedings  and the matter had been discussed with him,  anadverse order would not be invalid merely because no writtennotice was given.(2)  that  the word " record " used in the phrase "  mistakeapparent from the record" in S. 35(I) of the Act refers	 notonly   to  the	order  of  assessment  but   comprises	 allproceedings  on which the assessment order is based and	 theIncome-tax Officer is entitled for the purpose of exercisinghis jurisdiction under S. 35 to look into the whole evidenceand  the  law applicable to ascertain whether there  was  anerror.	If he doubts the written down value of the  previousyear it is open to him to check up the previous calculationsand, if he finds any mistake, to make fresh calculations  inaccordance with the law applicable including the rules	madethereunder.A mistake contemplated by this section is not one which is549to  be discovered as a result of an argument but it is	opento  the Income-tax Officer to examine the  record  includingthe evidence and if he discovers any mistake he is  entitledto  rectify  the  error	 provided  that	 if  the  result  isenhancement  of	 assessment  or reducing  the  refund,	thennotice	has  to be given to the assessee and  he  should  beallowed a reasonable opportunity of being heard.Venkatachalam  v.  Bombay Dyeing & Mfg.	 Co.,  Ltd.,  [1959]S.C.R. 703, Commissioner of Income-tax v. Khemchand  Ramdas,[1938] L.R. 65 I.A. 236 and Sidhramappa Andannappa Manviv.Commissioner of Income-tax, [1951] 2I I.T.R. 333, relied on.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELATE	JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 39 of 1959.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedNovember  26,  1957, of the Bombay High Court at  Rajkot  inSpecial Civil Application No. 119 of 1956.A.   V. Viswanatha Sastri, S. P. Mehta, J. B. Dadachanji, S.N. Andley and Rameshwar Nath, for the appellants.M.   C.	 Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, R.  GanapathyIyer and D. Gupta, for the respondent.1959.  April 14.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byKAPUR,	J.-This	 is an appeal by special leave	against	 thejudgment and order of the High Court of Judicature at Bombaydismissing  the	 appellant's petition under Art.  226.	 Theappellant before us is a private limited company carrying onthe  business of manufacturing and selling textiles and	 therespondent is the Income-tax Officer of Porbander.Previous to the year 1949, in Porbander which became a	partof  the	 State of Saurashtra, there was no  income-tax.	  In1949 the Saurashtra Income-tax Ordinance (hereinafter termedthe  Ordinance) was promulgated which was applicable to	 theState  of Saurashtra.  By that Ordinance  income-tax  becameleviable  and from 1950 onwards when Saurashtra became	partof the Union of India the Indian Income-tax Act (hereinafterreferred  to as the Act) became applicable by reason of	 theFinance Act of 1950 (Act XXV of 1950).550The appellant 'Was taxed for the accounting year 1949, i.e.,the  assessment	 year 1950-51.	In that year the  amount  ofdepreciation  allowed under s. 10(2)(vi) of the Act was	 Rs.3,43,869.  The appellant continued to be assessed to income-tax  in	 the assessment years 1952-53 and  1953-54  and	 thepresent	 appeal relates to the assessment of  year  1953-54.According  to the assessment order dated June 30, 1965,	 theamount of depreciation allowed for the assessment year 1953-54 was Rs. 3,48,105.  On August 8, 1955, the appellant	madean application for rectification under s. 35 of the Act.  Inthis   application  he	pointed	 out  several  mistakes	  incalculations  in regard to the depreciation amount.  By	 hisorder of February 27, 1956, the Income-tax Officer correctedthe  Written Down Value of the different properties  of	 theappellant and determined the total allowable depreciation tobe Rs. 1,94,074.  The order of the Income-tax Officerwas as follows:"  To arrive at the Written Down Value of the assets it	 wasnecessary  to maintain depreciation record.  This being	 notdone so far, is done now and working attached.Depreciation  allowance	 as per rules is worked out  at	 Rs.1,94,074 as per working sheet attached.The correct computation of income is as under:-Income before allowing depreciation     as per original assessment order:Rs.1,00,674     Less charity disallowed wrongly     written Rs. 21,889 instead of      Rs. 20,124:			  Rs.1,765			  Income   Rs.98,909     Less depreciation			  Rs.1,94,074				   Rs.95,165     Less Dividend income as per  origi-     nal assessment order:		  Rs.11,870      Loss.			    Rs.83,295Loss on account of depreciation to becarried forward.  Declared N. A. "551And thus the unabsorbed depreciation amount which under	 theassessment  order  of June 30, 1955, was  Rs.  2,31,944	 wasreduced	 to  Rs. 83.,295 and this was set  off	against	 theappellant's  income  of	 the assessment	 year  1954-55.	  OnFebruary  29,  1956,  the  Income-tax  Officer	passed	 twoprovisional  assessment(  orders for the years	1954-55	 and1955-56.    In	 both  these  orders   he   calculated	 thedepreciation  amounts on the basis of the same Written	DownValue  as  he  had determined for  the	year  1953-54.	 Thereasons	 for calculating them on the new basis were set	 outby  the Income-tax Officer in his order dated May 18,  1956,and they were:-"  Less Depreciation.  The depreciation of the	Company	 hasnot  been properly calculated by arriving at,  Written	DownValue as per the Saurashtra Income Tax Ordinance and also asper  Indian Income-tax Act.  The assessee Company was  beingassessed  regularly even as per Indian Income-tax  Act.	  SoWritten	 Down Value of all assets are arrived at by  workingout  the  depreciation	as per above Ordinance	as  well  asIncome	Tax  Act.   The depreciation is worked	out  as	 perseparate   statement  keeping  in  view	 the   following:(i) Definition of " assessee " as per Indian Income-tax Act.(ii) The exact meaning of W.D. V. as per Income-tax Act.(iii)	  The  meaning	of W. D. V. as	per  the  SaurashtraIncome-tax  Ordinance, 1949 and Rules (Page 20, para.  13-5-A).(iv) 1.	 T.  R. Volume 25, 558.	 Decision of  Calcutta	HighCourt  as  regards  C.	I.  T.,	 West  Bengal,M/s.   KarnaniIndustrial Bank Ltd.(v)  Views expressed by Taxation Enquiry Commissioner, 1953-54, Volume II, page 84, para. 34.(vi) Taxation Laws (Part 'B' State) (Removal of DifficultiesOrder, 1950.The depreciation thus worked out as per separate statement".On  August 8,1955,the appllant made an application under  s.35 for certain corrections in the calculations and the orderthereon was passed on February55227,  1956,  but no written notice of the  intended  rectifi-cation of the Written Down Value and the depreciation amountwas  given by the Income-tax Officer to the appellant  unders,  35	read with s. 63 of the Act.  On March 9,  1956,	 theappellant wrote to the Income-tax Officer protesting againstthe order:-" You have exercised powers not vested in you under the saidSection, and you have gone beyond the purview of the Act  bypreparing  statements and records which are  prejudicial  tothe rights of the Company ".The appellant requested the Income-tax Officer to cancel hisprevious  order	 and to pass a fresh order  correcting	onlvthose mistakes which had been pointed out by it' On the sameday  the  appellant  sent  another  letter  asking  for	 thecancellation of the provisional assessment order for 1954-55and requested for a revised assessment order on the basis ofthe return filed by it.	 The reply of the Income-tax Officerof  the	 same  date was that the order	was  correct  and  asimilar	 order was made on the second application in  regardto the assessment of 1954-55.On  April  16, 1956, the appellant filed a petition  in	 theHigh  Court  of Bombay under Arts. 226 and 227 in  which  italleged that the Income-tax Officer had:"  exceeded  the limits of jurisdiction vested	in  him	 andexercised  illegally jurisdiction not vested in him  by	 lawunder Section 35 and passed orders, inter alia, and suo motuand  without giving any prior notice and altered the  entireprocedure  and	basis  of calculating  depreciation  on	 thewritten	 down  value  of  buildings  and  machinery  of	 thepetitionersThe appellant prayed that the order made under s. 35 of	 theAct  be	 quashed and an injunction  issued  restraining	 theIncome-tax  Officer from recovering the assessed  tax.	 TheHigh  Court  dismissed this petition on the ground  that  itcontained misstatements of fact ; that" The advantage of this jurisdiction is not available to thesubject when adequate and efficacious remedy is available tohim  under  the ordinary law " ; that the  appellant  could,under s. 33A of the Act,553have  gone in revision to the Commissioner.  The High  Courtalso  held against the appellant on merits.   The  appellanthas come to this Court by special leave and three  questionswere  raised (1) that no notice as required under s. 35	 wasgiven to the appellant; (2) that there was no record on	 thebasis of which the rectifica. tion in the Written Down Valueof  the	 property could be made and (3) that  there  was  nomistake apparent from the record.The learned Attorney-General contended in the first instancethat the remedy available under Art. 226 is a  discretionaryone  and if the High Court had exercised its  discretion  noappeal	was  competent and in support of his  contention  herelied upon the judgment of this Court in K. S. Rashid & Sonv.  Income-tax	Investigation Commission,  etc.	 (1),  whereMukherjee, J., (as he then was) said:-For  purpose  of this case it is enough to  state  that	 theremedy	provided  for in Art. 226 of the Constitution  is  adiscretionary  remedy  and  the High Court  has	 always	 thediscretion  to refuse to grant any writ if it  is  satisfiedthat  the aggrieved party can have an adequate	or  suitablerelief elsewhere ".It is not necessary to decide in this case whether the orderpassed	under  Art.  226 is of a  discretionary	 nature	 andtherefore in appeal this Court would not interfere with	 theexercise of discretion, because in our opinion, the case canbe decided on other grounds of substance.The first question is that of notice under s. 35 of the Act.The  affidavit	of  the Income-tax Officer  shows  that	 thecorrectness of the figures for determining the	depreciationwas  discussed with the appellant's Secretary.	The  Income-tax Officer stated that:"  The depreciation which was calculated in  the  assessmentorder  of  1953-54  was as per the statement  given  by	 thepetitioner.   On  submission  of the  said  application	 thepetitioner  (Shri Ganatra, the Secretary of the	 Mills)	 wastold  that the depreciation will be given  after  rectifyingmistakes.  The petitioner had(1)  (1954) S.C.R. 738, 747.70554agreed	to the same.  There being no record of	the  workingout from the first available record in the Assessment  orderfor  the  Assessment year 1943-44, the petitioner  was	alsosupplied  with the copy of the working of  the	depreciationalong	with   the  necessary  rules  and   regulation	 forcalculating the same ".He  also stated that the order of rectification	 was  passed"almost	 at the end of the financial year, after  explainingand  discussing	 all the above calculation  along  with	 therelevant rules and regulation of the calculated depreciation"  ;  that  the	 order	was  not  passed  without  giving  areasonable opportunity to the appellant; that the matter wasdiscussed   with   its	representative	 more	than   once;thattheassessment for the year 1954-55 was made final  aftercalculatitig   the   depreciation;   that   the	  point	  ofdepreciation was notraised by the applicantat any hearingandthat even though no written notice was given, the  represen-tative	of  the appellant was given notice of  the  intendeddetermination of the Written Down Values.  He also stated :" Thus though no written notice is given, applicant is givennotice	of  the	 intention of  calculating  depreciation  onrecord basis and is also allowed a reasonable opportunity ofbeing  heard  inasmuch as he was given	the  calculation  ofdepreciation on 21-2-1956 ".The  orders  placed on the record show that  the  Income-taxOfficer made calculation for the purpose of determining	 thedepreciation  amount and after giving deductions allowed  bythe  Act  and  the  Rules made	thereunder  arrived  at	 thecorrected  figure  of Rs. 1,94,074 for the  assessment	year1953-54.Apart from the fact that the petition of the appellant	doesnot set out clearly all the facts which should have been setout,  there  is	 the affidavit of the  respondent  that	 thematter	 was  discussed	 with  the  representative  of	 theappellant  although  no written notice was given.   In	thisconnection   the   learned  Attorney-General   has   furthersubmitted  (1) that the order determining  the	depreciationamount allowable was not final;(2)  that the effect of the order making the rectification555was not of enhancing the assessment or reducing the  refund;and (3) that the question of depreciation could be raised atthe time of assessment in any subsequent year.The object of the provision as to notice in s. 35 is that noorder  should  be  passed to the detriment  of	an  assesseewithout	 affording him an opportunity but it cannot be	saidthat the Rule is so rigid that if, as a matter of fact,	 theassessee  knows of the proceedings and the matter  has	beendiscussed  with him then an adverse order would	 be  invalidmerely	because no notice under s. 63 was given.  Of  coursethis postulates that a reasonable opportunity has been givento  show cause.	 Secondly this provision is applicable	onlywhere  the  assessment	is enhanced  or-refund	is  reduced.Neither	 of  those contingencies has arisen in	the  presentcase.The  depreciation  allowed to the appellant in the  year  ofassessment 1943-44 when the appellant was assessed as a non-resident,  was Rs. 1,91,224.  In the year 1944-45 there	 wasno asssessable income in British India and so also in  1945-46.   In  the year 1946-47 there was a loss.   In  the	year1947-48 as in the preceding years the sales were effected atPorbander and there was no collection made in British India.The total tax due was calculated at Rs. 43-11As.  In 1948-49the sales were Rs. 38,656 and they were assessed to  income-tax on a total income of Rs. 9,326.  For the accounting year1948,  i.e., the assessment year 1949-50 when the  Ordinancecame  into force the total depreciation amount	allowed	 wasRs. 3,66,925 which was much more than what was allowable  onthe  Written Down Values determined in accordance  with	 theprovisions  of	the  Ordinance which  defined  Written	DownValue:Written Down Value means-(a)  In	 the case of assets acquired in the  previous  year,the actual cost to the assessee;(b)  In the case of assets acquired before the previous yearthe  actual  cost  to the  assessee  less  all	depreciationactually  allowed  to him under this  Ordinance	 or  allowedunder any Act repealed hereby or556which  would have been allowed to him if the Indian  Income-tax Act, 1922, was in force in past ".On  the basis of this Ordinance and the other  Statutes	 andRules  mentioned in his affidavit, which have been  set	 outabove, the Income-tax Officer-made the various	calculationsand  determined	 the depreciation amounts which	 have  givenrise to the controversy before us.  These calculations	werebased  on  the	Written	 Down  Values  for  the	  successiveassessment years up to the year of assessment 1953-54.But  it	 was  argued  by  counsel  for	the  appellant	thataccording  to s. 10(5)(b) of the Act the Written Down  Valuein the case of assets acquired before the previous year meanthe  actual  cost  to the  assessee  less  all	depreciationactually  allowed  to  him under the Act or  under  any	 Actrepealed  thereby  and	therefore  the	provisions  of	 theSaurashtra  Ordinance  which  came to an end  when  the	 Actbecame	applicable cannot form the basis of determining	 theWritten	 Down  Value for the purposes of assessment  of	 theyears  1950-51 onwards.	 In reply it was submitted that	 theWritten Down Values were calculated and depreciation  deter-mined  for the year 1943-44 and should in  subsequent  yearshave  been calculated in accordance with the  provisions  ofthe Ordinance and they could not become higher for  purposesof  s. 10(5)(b) of the Act merely because the Ordinance	 wasreplaced by the Act.  In this connection reference was	madeto s. 12 of the Finance Act, 1950, s. 12 of which  empoweredthe Central Government to make provision for the removal  ofdifficulties  in giving effect to the provisions of  any  ofthe Acts, Rules or Orders extended by s. 3 or s. 11 of	thatAct,  i. e., Finance Act, 1950.	 Under that section (s.	 12)the  Taxation Laws (Part B States) Removal  of	DifficultiesOrder, 1950, was promulgated on December 2, 1950, and by cl.2  of  this  Order provision was  made	for  computation  ofaggregate  depreciation allowance and Written  Down  Values.To  this Order the following explanation was added on  March9, 1953: (Notification No. S. R. 0. 477):-"  For the purposes of this paragraph, the expression "	 alldepreciation actually allowed under any557laws or rules of a Part B State " means and shall be  deemedto   have   always  meant  the	 aggregate   allowance	 fordepreciation  taken  into account in computing	the  WrittenDown  Value  under any laws or rules of a Part	B  State  orcarried forward under the said laws or rules.But the appellant's counsel contended that this	 explanationis  ultra vires because it was promulgated under s. 60-A  ofthe Act and that section was inapplicable to the Order	madeunder  s.  12 of the Finance Act, 1950.	 He  relied  on	 twocases  decided by the Hyderabad High Court in S. V. Naik  v.Commissioner  of Income-tax (1) and Commissioner of  Income-tax v. D. B. R. Mills Ltd. (2) but we are informed that	 oneof  those  judgments is under appeal to this  Court  and  wetherefore  do not wish to express any opinion upon the	cor-rectness  or  otherwise	 of this contention  raised  by	 theappellant.It was next argued by the learned Attorney-General that	 theWritten Down Values determined under S. 35 are not final andcan be redetermined in the following assessment years and insupport	  he   referred	 to  Karnani  Industrial   Bank	  v.Commissioner  of Income-tax (3) where the original  cost  ofthe  machinery purchased ]Rs. 3,40,000-was accepted  in	 thesuccessive  assessment	years  till it was  doubted  in	 theassessment order 1946-47 and was determined at Rs.  2,80,000and it was contended that the Income-tax Officer had to takethe  Written  Down Value of the previous  year	as  correct.Thus  the question there raised was whether  the  Income-taxOfficer	 was entitled in law to go behind the original	costaccepted  by his predecessor ever since the assessment	year1939-40.   It  was held that neither the  principle  of	 resjudicata nor estoppel nor the terms of s. 10 (2) (vi) of theAct  prevented the Income-tax Officer from determining.	 forhimself' what the actual cost of the machinery had been	 andthat depreciation had to be calculated for every year and itwas open to the Income-tax Officer not merely to perform " amathematical operation on(1) [1955] 29 I.T.R. 2o6.     (2) [1954] 29 I.T.R. 21O,	  (3) [1951] 25 I.T.R. 558.558the  basis of the Written Down Value of the  previous  year,but one of determining the Written Down Value himself ".The  limit to which the Income-tax Officer can go back	doesnot stop at the Written Down Value of the  previous year butextends	 up  to	 the figure of the original  cost,  and	 themethod	enjoined by s. 10(5)(b) is not that  the  Income-taxOfficer	 should merely scale down the Written Down Value  ofthe   previous	 year,	but  that  he	should	 take	intoconsideration  the actual cost, determining it for  himself,if  necessary, take also into consideration  the  allowancesgranted in the past and then make his own-computation as  tothe Written Down Value for the assessment year with which beis  concerned.	Thus it cannot be said that  merely  becauseunder  s.  35 some Written Down Value and  the	depreciationamount	have been determined they are a final  determinationbinding	 for  all times to come nor does  the  determinationoperate as estoppel or resjudicata for the following  years.Therefore  it  cannot  be  said	 that  there  is  no   otherefficacious  and  adequate remedy open to the  appellant  tochallenge the depreciation amount determined under s. 35.Counsel for the appellant contended that the provision underwhich the Income-tax Officer acted, i. e., 35 was not  meantfor  the  purpose  of making  corrections  in  Written	DownValues; and that for the purpose the appropriate and correctprovision  was s. 34 which specifically refers to  excessivedepreciation.  There are two sections under which an Income-tax  Officer can act, i. e., ss. 34 and 35 and the  questionfor  decision that arises is whether s. 35 was open to	him.Section 35 provides:" The Commissioner or Appellate Assistant Commissioner	may,at  any	 time within four years from the date of  any  orderpassed by him in appeal or, in the case of the Commissioner,in  revision  under section 33A and the	 Income-tax  Officermay,  at  any time within four years from the  date  of	 anyassessment  order or refund order passed by him on  his	 ownmotion	rectify any mistake apparent from the record of	 theappeal,	 revision, assessment or refund as the case may	 be,andshall within the like period rectify any such mistake  whichhas been brought to his notice by an assessee ".The question therefore is was it a mistake apparent from therecord	which the Income-tax Officer has rectified.  It	 wassubmitted  that	 recalculation is not rectifying  a  mistakewhich  is apparent from the record.  The words used  in	 thesection are " apparent from the record " and the record doesnot  mean only the order of assessment but it comprises	 allproceedings  on which the assessment order is based and	 theIncome-tax Officer is entitled for the purpose of exercisinghis jurisdiction under s. 35 to look into the whole evidenceand  the  law applicable to ascertain whether there  was  anerror.	If he doubts the Written Down Value of the  previousyear it is open to him to check up the previous calculationsand if he finds any mistake it is open to him to make  freshcalculations in accordance with the law applicable includingthe rules made thereunder.The  Privy  Council in Commissioner of	Income-tax  v.	KhemChand Ramdas(1) held s. 35 to be applicable where the  factswere that the assessee did not produce books of account	 andan assessment was made by the Income-tax Officer to the bestof his judgment.  An application for the registration of thefirm  was however allowed and it was registered	 on  January17,  1927.   On the same day assessment was  made  under  s.23(4).	 As  it	 was  a registered  firm  no  super-tax	 wasassessed.   The Commissioner called for the record under  s.33 and cancelled the registration on January 28, and orderedthe  Income-tax	 Officer to  take  necessary  con\sequentialaction.	  The  result of that was that the  assessee  becameliable	to super-tax.  Consequently an order  for  super-taxwas  made  on May 4, 1929, and three days  later  notice  ofdemand was issued.  The Privy Council held that as the freshaction taken by the Income-tax Officer was hopelessly out oftime the demand for super-tax was illegal because after	 thefinal  assessment  the Income-tax Officer could	 not  go  onmaking	fresh  computations  and issuing  fresh	 notices  ofdemand to the end of all time but it was held that(1)  (1938) L. R. 65 I.A. 236.560the  provisions	 of  ss.  34  and  35  prescribed  the	onlycircumstances  in which fresh assessment could be  made	 andfresh  notice  of demand could be issued.  At  p.  426	LordRomer observed:"  In the present case it is a debatable question r  whetherthe  circumstances  were  such as to  bring  it	 within	 theprovisions of Section 34.  It is not necessary to  determinethat  question inasmuch, as, in. their	lordship's  opinion,the case clearly would have fallen within the provisions  ofsection	 35 had the Income-tax Officer exercised his  powersunder the section within one year from the date on which theearlier	 demand	 was  served  upon  the	 respondents.	For,looking	 at the record of the assessments made upon them  asit   stood  after  the	cancellation  of  the	respondent'sregistration and the order affecting the cancellation  wouldhave formed part of that record-it would be apparent that  amistake	 had  been  made in stating that  no  super-tax	 wasleviable ".Thus  the  order effecting the cancellation  of	 the  regis-tration of the assessee's firm was considered to have formedpart of the record of the case.In Sidhramappa Andannappa Manvi v. Commis. sioner of Income-tax  (1)  the facts were that a debt belonging	to  a  jointfamily fell on partition to the share of the assessee.	Thisdebt  was  held not to be recoverable by a judgment  of	 theBombay	High Court dated September 29, 1941.  Holding it  tobe within the accounting year the Appellate Tribunal allowedthis  sum to be taken into consideration for the purpose  ofthe  accounting year.  It subsequently corrected the  error.It  was held that under s. 35 the Tribunal was	entitled  torectify	  the	mistake	 and  was  competent   to   pass   aconsequential	order  dismissing  the	appeal	instead	  ofallowing it.The  power under s. 35 is no doubt limited to  rectificationof  mistakes which are apparent from the record.  A  mistakecontemplated  by  this	section is not one which  is  to  bediscovered as a result of an argument but it is open to	 theIncome-tax  Officer  to	 examine the  record  including	 theevidence and if he discovers any(I)  [1951] 2I I.T.R. 333.(2) S.C.R. SUPREME COURT REPORTS		      561mistake he is entitled to rectify the error provided that ifthe  result  is enhancement of assessment  or  reducing	 therefund	then notice has to be given to the assessee  and  heshould be allowed a reasonable opportunity of being heard.The  scope  and effect of the expression  "mistake  apparentfrom  the  record  " and the extent of	the  powers  of	 theIncome-tax Officer under s. 35 of the Act were discussed  bythis  Court  in	 M. K. Venkatachalam v.	 Bombay	 Dyeing	 andManufacturing Co. Ltd. (1) where the facts were these: A sumof  Rs.	 50,063 being interest on tax paid  in	advance	 wasgiven  credit for under s. 18A(5) of the Act.	Subsequentlythere  was  an amendment of the Act by	which  the  interestbecame	allowable only on the difference between the  amountof  tax	 paid  and  what  was  actually	 determined.   As  aconsequence of this the Income-tax Officer purporting to actunder s. 35 of the Act rectified the mistake and reduced theamount	of  interest  credited to Rs. 21,157  and  issued  ademand for the difference.  The assessee obtained a writ  ofprohibition  against  the Income-tax Officer on	 the  groundthat the mistake contemplated under that provision had to beapparent   on  the  face  of  the  Order  and  it  was	 notcontemplated to cover a mistake resulting from an  amendmentof  the law even though it was retrospective in its  effect.The  Revenue appealed to this Court.  Thus the question	 fordecision in that case was whether ail order proper and validwhen made could be said to disclose a mistake apparent	fromthe record merely because it became erroneous as a result ofa subsequent amendment of the law which was retrospective inits  operation.	  In delivering the judgment  of  the  CourtGajendragadkar, J., said:-"  At the time when the Income-tax Officer applied his	mindto the question of rectifying the alleged mistake, there canbe  no	doubt  that  he had to read  the  principal  Act  ascontaining  the inserted proviso as from April 1, 1952.	  Ifthat  be  the true position then the order  which  he  made,giving credit to the(1) [1959] S.C.R. 703.7I562respondent  for	 Rs. 50,603-15-0 is  plainly  and  obviouslyinconsistent  with  a specific and clear  provision  of	 thestatute and that must inevitably be treated as a mistake  oflaw apparent from the record.  If a mistake of fact apparentfrom  the  record of the assessment order can  be  rectifiedunder  s. 35 we see no reason why a mistake of law which  isglaring and obvious cannot be similarly rectified ".The decision of the Privy Council in Commissioner of Income-tax v. Khem Chand Ram Chand (1) was referred,to.Counsel	 for the appellant sought to distinguish both  thesecases; Venkatachalam's case (2) and Khem Chand's case(1)  onthe  ground  that  the	record	there  considered  was	 theassessment  record of that year and the	 Income-tax  Officerdid  not  have to go to the records of	the  previous  year.That  is  a  distinction  without  a  difference.   If,	 forinstance,  the	Income. tax Officer had found  that  in	 theassessment  year 1952-53 there was an apparent	arithmeticalmistake in the account of the Written Down Value of the pro.parties	 which	resulted in a corresponding mistake  in	 theassessment of the year in controversy could he not take	 thecorrected  figure  for the purposes of	the  assessment	 andcould it be said that the mistake was not apparent from	 therecord.	 A fortiori if lie discovered that the very basis ofthe  different	assessments  was  erroneous  because  of  aninitial mistake in determining the Written Down Value  couldit  be said that this would not be a mistake  apparent	fromthe  record.   And  if in order	 to  determine	the  correctWritten	 Down  Value the Income-tax  Officer  makes  correctcalculations,  can  it	be said that  is  not  rectifying  amistake apparent from the record but is dehors it.In  our	 opinion this appeal is without force and  we  wouldtherefore dismiss it with costs.Appeal dismissed.(1) (1938) L.R. 65.1.A. 236.   (2) [1959] S.C.R. 703.563