PETITIONER:THE INDIAN HUME PIPE CO., LTD.,	Vs.RESPONDENT:THEIR WORKMENDATE OF JUDGMENT:05/05/1959BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1081		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 948 CITATOR INFO : R	    1960 SC 571	 (10) E&D	    1960 SC 826	 (19) R	    1960 SC1006	 (5) RF	    1966 SC1754	 (11) R	    1972 SC 330	 (10)ACT:Industrial   Dispute--Bonus -- Available Surplus -  Previouslosses	 written   off-Expenditure   on	  parents    writtenoff--Debenture redemption reserve--If Proper Prior  charges-Preference  shares,  return  on-Calculations  on   All-Indiabasis, whether proper.HEADNOTE:The  appellant manufactured hume pipes and had factories  indifferent   parts  of  India,  Pakistan	 and  Ceylon.	 Fordetermining  the available surplus for the payment of  bonusfor  the  year 1954-55 the appellant claimed  deductions  asprior  charges	on  account of (i) losses  suffered  on	 theLahore	factory	 written off, (ii)  expenditure	 on  patentswritten	 off,  and (iii) debenture redemption  reserve.	  Italso claimed 6% return on the preference shares as return onpaid up capital.  The losses on the Lahore factory had	beenincurred  in  the  previous years  which  had  been  carriedforward	 from  year  to year and had  been  written  off  asirrecoverable  in the bonus year.  The amounts spent on	 thepurchase  of  the patents which had been worked off  in	 theprevious years had also been written off in the bonus  year.The appellant had issued debentures in 1942-43 redeemable in1962-63 and claimed Rs. 3,50,000 as the annual	contributiontowards	 the redemption reserve.  The appellant	 bad  issuedpreference shares on which the shareholders, under the termsof  the	 issue, were not entitled to more than 5%,  but	 theappellant  claimed  a return of 6% on these hatres  also  asreturn on paid up949capital as provided in the Full Bench formula.	The  disputeregarding bonus had been raised by the workmen of the Wadalafactory alone, the workmen of other factories having settledthe matter had been paid the agreed bonus.  The	 respondentsclaimed	 that the bonus calculations should not be  made  onthe  basis  of	All-India figures but on the  basis  of	 theactual	amounts paid or payable by the appellant  under	 thesettlements.Held, that the losses on the Lahore factory and the  patentswritten	 off could not be allowed as prior charges  as	theywere  merely  debits  in  connection  with  the	 working  ofprevious  years.   Nor could the amount on  account  of	 thedebenture redemption reserve be allowed as a prior charge asno  such charge was envisaged by the Full Bench	 formula  ofthe  Labour  Appellate Tribunal ; but this amount  could  betaken  into  consideration when distributing  the  availablesurplus	 among the various interests entitled  thereto.	  Indetermining  the  available surplus the Full  Bench  formulamust be adhered to in its essential particulars as otherwisethere would be no stability or uniformity of practice.A deduction of more than 5% return on the preference  sharescould  not be allowed as that was the maximum  return  whichthe shareholders could get on these shares.  Even though theFull Bench formula mentioned 6% return on paid up capital itwas not to be literally construed and the Tribunal could, ifthe circumstances warranted, increase or decrease the rate.In calculating the actual amount of bonus to be paid  calcu-lations	 had  to be made on the basis of  All-India  figuresotherwise the respondents would have an advantage over thoseworkmen	 with whom settlements had been made and  would	 getlarger	amounts of bonus merely by reason of the  fact	thatthe  appellant	had managed to settle the  claims  of  thoseworkmen at lesser figures.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 54 of 1958.Appeal	by  special leave from the Award dated	January	 14,1957, of the Industrial Tribunal at Bombay in Reference	 (I.T.) No. 75 of 1956.M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-Generalfor India and I. N. Shrofffor the appellants.N.   V.	 Phadke, T. S. Venkataraman K. R. Sharma and  K.  R.Chaudhury, for respondent No. I and the Intervener.1959.  May 5. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by950BHAGWATI,  J.-This appeal with special leave challenges	 theaward made by the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, in  Reference(IT)   No.  75	of  1956  between  the	appellant  and	 therespondents  whereby the Industrial Tribunal awarded to	 therespondents 4 1/2 months' basic wages as bonus for the	year1954-55 (year ending June 30, 1955).The  appellant is a subsidiary of the  Premier	ConstructionCo., Ltd., and manufactures Hume Pipes.	 It has factories indifferent   parts  of  India,  Pakistan	 and  Ceylon.	 Therespondents  are  the workers employed	in  the	 appellant'sfactory at Antop Hill, Wadala, Bombay.In October 1955, respondent I who are workmen represented bythe Engineering Mazdoor Sabha made a demand for the  paymentof  six-months'	 wages as bonus for the year  1954-55.	 Thematter	was  also  referred  to	 the  Conciliation   Officerrequesting  him to initiate Conciliation  Proceedings.	 TheConciliation  Proceedings  went on before  the	ConciliationOfficer upto March 23, 1956, on which date both the  partiesarrived at and executed an Agreement to refer the matter  toan  Industrial Tribunal for adjudication.   Accordingly,  onApril 30, 1956, both the parties drew up and signed a joint-application for referring the dispute for adjudication to  aTribunal and the Government of Bombay thereupon in  exerciseof  the	 powers	 conferred by sub-s. (2) of  s.	 10  of	 theIndustrial  Disputes Act, 1947, by its order dated June	 11,1956, referred the following dispute to the Tribunal :-"  DEMAND: Every Workman (daily rated) should be paid  bonusfor   the  year	 1954-55  (year	 ending	 30th  June,   1955)equivalent  to	six-months' wages without it  attaching	 anycondition thereto ".Respondent No. I filed their statement of claim before	-theTribunal on June 29, 1956.  They alleged that the profits ofthe appellant during the year 195455 were higher than  thoseduring	the  year 1953-54 for which year the  appellant	 hadpaid  four months' basic wages as bonus.  They also  allegedthat  the wages paid to them by the appellant fell short  ofthe,  living  wage and therefore the  appellant	 should	 paythe  in	 six months' basic wages as bonus for  the  relativeyear.951The  appellant	filed  its written statement  in  answer  onAugust	14,  1956.   The  appellant  submitted	that,  afterproviding for " the prior charges " according to the formulalaid down by the Labour Appellate Tribunal the profits	madeduring	the  year  under consideration did  riot  leave	 anysurplus	 and  tile,  respondents were not  entitled  to	 anybonus.	 It denied that it bad made huge profits during	 theyear  in question and submitted that the profits  made	werenot  even sufficient to provide for " the prior	 charges  ",etc.The   Tribunal	after  hearing	the  parties  came  to	 theconclusion  that even if payment of a bonus equal to  4	 1/2months'	 basic wages were made a fair surplus would be	leftin  the hands of the appellant to the tune of Rs. 3.30	lacsand  therefore	awarded the same subject  to  the  followingconditions:-(a)  Any  employee  who has been  dismissed  for  misconductresulting  in  financial loss to the company  shall  not  beentitled to bonus to the extent of the loss caused.(b)  Persons  who  are	eligible for bonus but	who  are  nolonger	in  the service of the company on the  date  of	 thepayment	 shall	be paid the same provided that they  make  awritten	 application  for the same within  three  months  ofpublication of this award.  Such bonus shall be paid  withinone  month of receipt of application provided that no  claimcan  be enforced before six weeks from the date	 this  awardbecomes enforceable.Being  aggrieved  by  the said award of	 the  Tribunal,	 theappellant  applied for and obtained from this Court  specialleave  to  appeal  against the same under Art.	136  of	 theConstitution and hence this appeal.The  formula  evolved  by  the	Full  Bench  of	 the  LabourAppellate  Tribunal  in Millowners' Association,  Bombay  v.Rashtreeya  Mill Mazdoor Sangh, Bombay(1) is based  on	thisidea  that  " as both labour and capital contribute  to	 theearnings of the industrial concerti, it is fair that  labourshould	derive	some benefit, if there is  a  surplus  aftermeeting	 " prior or necessary charges ". The following	wereprescribed as the first charges on(1)  (1950) L.L.J. 1247952gross  profits,	 viz., (1) Provision for  depreciation	;(2)reserves for rehabilitation ; (3) a return at 6%on the	paidup capital; (4) a return on the working capital at a  lesserrate than the return on paid up capital and (5) an estimatedamount in respect of the payment of income-tax.	 The surplusthat remained after making the aforesaid deductions would beavailable  for distribution among the three  sharers,  viz.,the  shareholders,  the industry and the workmen  [See	MuirMills Co., Ltd. v. Suti Mills Mazdoor Union, Kanpur (1)	 andSree Meenakshi Mills Ltd. v. Their Workmen (2)].This Full Bench -Formula has been working all throughout thecountry	 since	its enunciation as aforesaid  and  has	beenfound  to  be,	in the main,  fairly  satisfactory.   It  isconducive to the benefit of both labour and capital and eventhough	certain	 variations have been attempted to  be	madetherein from time to time the main features thereof have notbeen  substantially departed from.  We feel that  a  formulawhich  has been thus adopted all throughout the country	 andhas so far worked fairly satisfactorily should be  adhered,'to,  though  there is scope for certain flexibility  in	 theworking	 thereof  in accordance with the exigencies  of	 thesituation.In the working of the said formula, however, regard must  behad  both  to the interests of capital and labour.   In	 anygiven industry there are three interests involved, viz., theshareholders,  the  Company and the workmen  and  all  theseinterests have got to get their proper share in the  surplusprofits ascertained after due provision is made for these  "prior  charges	".  The	 shareholders  may  look  to  largerdividends commensurate with the prosperity of the industrialconcern,  the company would, apart from	 rehabilitation	 andreplacement of buildings, plant and machinery, look  forwardto expansion and satisfaction of other needs of the industryand  the  workmen would certainly be entitled to ask  for  ashare  in the surplus profits with a view to bridge the	 gapbetween the wages earned by them and the living wages.	 Allthese interests(1) [1955]1 1,s.C.R. 991, 998.(2) [1958] S.C.R 878, 884,953have,  therefore, got to be duly and properly  provided	 forhaving	regard to the principles of social justice and	oncesurplus	 profits  available for distribution  amongst  theserespective   interests	are  determined	 after	making	 dueprovision  for	the  "	prior charges  "  as  aforesaid	 theIndustrial Tribunal adjudicating upon the dispute would havea  free hand in the distribution of the same having  regard,of course, to the considerations mentioned hereinabove.	 Butso  far	 as  the determination of  the	surplus	 profits  isconcerned  the formula must be adhered to in  its  essentialparticulars  as	 otherwise there would be no  stability	 noruniformity of practice in regard to the same.It maybe noted, 'however, that in regard to the depreciationwhich  is  a prior charge on the gross profits earned  by  aconcern	 there	is  always a difference	 in  the  method  ofapproach which is adopted by the income-tax authorities	 andby  the industrial tribunals.  It was pointed out by  us  inSree  Meenakshi	 Mills Ltd. v. Their Workmen  (1)  that	 thewhole  of the depreciation admissible under  the  Income-taxAct was not allowable in determining the available  surplus.The  initial  depreciation and the  additional	depreciationwere  abnormal additions to the income-tax depreciation	 andit  would not be fair to the workmen if these  depreciationswere rated as prior charges before the available surplus wasascertained.   Considerations on which the grant of  initialand  additional depreciations might be justified  under	 theIncome-tax Act were different from considerations of  socialjustice	 and  fair  apportionment on which  the	 Full  BenchFormula	 in  regard to the payment of bonus to	workmen	 wasbased.	 This was the reason why we held in that  case	thatonly   normal	depreciation   including   multiple    shiftdepreciation,  but  not initial or  additional	depreciationshould rank as prior charge.  We approved of the decision ofthe Labour Appellate Tribunal in U. P. Electric Supply	Co.,Ltd.  v.  Their	 Workmen  (2)  in  arriving  at	 the   aboveconclusion and disallowed the claim of the company there  todeduct	the  initial  or additional  depreciation  as  priorcharge in bonus calculations.(1) [1958] S.C.R. 878.120(2) (1955) L.A.C. 659.954When  this  decision was reached we had not  before  us	 thedecision   of  the  Labour  Appellate  Tribunal	  in   SuratElectricity  Company's Staff Union v. The Surat	 ElectricityCo., Ltd. (1) where a Bench of the Labour Appellate Tribunalhad  negatived	the contention that if only the "  normal  "depreciation  allowed by the Income-tax law were  allowed  acompany	 would	be able to recoup the original cost  of	 theassets and observed that:"  For	the  purpose  of  bonus	 formula  the  initial	 andadditional  depreciation,  which  are  disallowed  by	thatformula,  must be ignored in fixing the written	 down  valueand  in	 determining  the  period  over	 which	the   normaldepreciation will be allowed.  The result will be a notionalamount	of  normal  depreciation  ; but,  as  we  have	saidrepeatedly the bonus formula is a notional formula."We have already expressed in the judgment delivered by us inAssociated Cement Co., Ltd. v. Its Workmen (1) that for	 thepurpose	  of   the  bonus  formula   the   notional   normaldepreciation  should  be  deducted from	 the  gross  profitscalculated on the basis adopted in Surat Electric Supply Co.Staff  Union  v.  Surat Electricity Co., Ltd.  (1)  and	 notmerely	the  normal depreciation  including  multiple  shiftdepreciation allowed by the income-tax authorities as statedin U. P. Electric Supply Co., Ltd. v. Their Workmen (3).It is well settled that the actual income-tax payable by thecompany	 on  the basis of the  full  statutory	depreciationallowed	 by  the  income-tax authorities  for  the  relevantaccounting  year  should be taken into account	as  a  priorcharge irrespective of any set off allowed by the Income-taxauthorities  for prior charges or any  other  considerationssuch  as building up of income-tax reserves for	 payment  ofenhanced  liabilities of income-tax accruing in future.	  Itis  also well settled that the calculations of	the  surplusavailable  for distribution should be made having regard  tothe working of the industrial concern in the relevant(1) (1956) L.A.C. 443.		(2) [1959] S.C.R. 925.(3)  (1955) L.A.C. 659.955accounting  year  without  taking  into	 consideration	 thecredits or debits which are referable to the working of	 theprevious years, e.g., the refund of excess profits tax	paidin  the past or loss of previous years carried	forward	 butwritten	 off  in the accounting year as also  any  provisionthat  may have to be made to meet future liabilities,  e.g.,redemption  of debenture stock, or provision  for  ProvidentFund and Gratuity and other benefits, etc., which,  however,necessary they may be, cannot be included in the category ofprior charges.If  regard be had to the principles enunciated above  it  isclear  that  the  items of Rs. 1.14  lacs  representing	 theLahore	factory	 balance written off, Rs.  0.34	 lacs  beingpatents written off, and Rs. 0.09 lacs shown as loss on saleof  Tardeo property cannot be allowed as  proper  deductionsfrom   the   gross  profits  for  the  purposes	  of   bonuscalculations.	The  first two items represented  debits  inconnection with the working of previous years.	Loss of	 theLahore	factory had been incurred during the three  previousaccounting  years and had been carried forward from year  toyear and the only thing which was done during the year underconsideration  was  that it was then written  off  as  irre-coverable.  The patents also had been worked off in previousyears  and  the amounts spent in the purchase  thereof	weretherefore to be written off but had reference to the workingof the company during the previous years.  The last item  ofRs. 0.09 lacs was trivial and was therefore not pressed withthe  result  that all these three items were  rightly  addedback  in  the  calculations  of the  gross  profits  of	 theappellant and the figure of gross profits taken at Rs. 36.21lacs was correctly arrived at by the Tribunal.The  depreciation allowed by the Tribunal was Rs. 9.82	lacswhich  was  the full statutory depreciation allowed  by	 theIncome-tax authorities.	 That should not have been done	 andthe only depreciation allowed should have been the  notionalnormal	depreciation  which was agreed between	the  partiesbefore us at Rs. 6.23 lacs.Working the figure of income-tax deducted by the956appellant on the basis adopted in Shree Meenakshi Mills Ltd.v. Their Workmen (1) the income-tax on the gross profits  ofRs.  36.21 lacs less the statutory depreciation	 allowed  bythe  income-tax	 authorities, viz., Rs. 9.82 lacs  would  beequivalent to 7 annas in the rupee on Rs. 26.39 lacs,  i.e.,Rs. 11.55 lacs thus leaving a balance of Rs. 16.82 lacs fromwhich  the other prior charges would have to be deducted  inorder to ascertain the distributable surplus.6% return on the ordinary share capital and 5% return on thepreference  share capital would come to Rs. 4.30 lacs.	 Theappellant,  however,  claimed that even	 on  the  preferenceshares	6% return should be allowed and not 5%	even  thoughpreference shareholders were not entitled to anything beyond5% under the terms of issue.  The appellant obviously reliedupon the wording of the formula: " return at 6% on the	paidup  capital " and contended that the preference shares	alsobeing paid up capital it would be entitled to a return of 6%on  the	 preference  shares for the purposes  of  the  bonusformula	 even  though in fact it would have to pay  only  5%return on the same.  We cannot accept this contention.	Eventhough the bonus formula is a notional one we cannot  ignorethe  fact that in no event would the appellant be  bound  topay to the preference shareholders anything beyond 5% by wayof  return.  The Full Bench Formula cannot be  so  literallyconstrued.   There is bound to be some flexibility  therein,the  6% which is prescribed there as the return on  paid  upcapital	 is not inexorable, and the Tribunals could  if	 thecircumstances  warrant vary the rate of interest  either  byincreasing  or	decreasing the same.  On the facts  of	thiscase  however  there  is no warrant  for  allowing  anythingbeyond 5% return on preference share capital and the  amountof  Rs.	 4.30 lacs should therefore be deducted	 as  anotherprior charge from the grsos profits of the appellant.4% return on reserves used as working capital was calculatedmerely	at a figure of Rs. 0.29 lacs worked out on  a  totalfigure of Rs. 7,42,139.	 The Tribunal(1)  [1938] S.C.R. 876.957did not take into consideration another sum of Rs. 41,81,196which  represented the depreciation fund which according  tothe  appellant had been used as working capital	 during	 theyear.	If that had been allowed a further sum of  Rs.	1.67lacs  should have been added to Rs. 0.29 lacs and the  totalamount	of  4% return on reserves used	as  working  capitalwould have amounted to Rs. 1.96 lacs.Two  arguments were advanced against this contention of	 theappellant.    One  was	that  there  was  nothing   like   adepreciation fund, that it merely represented a credit	itemintroduced in the balance-sheet as against the value of	 thefixed	capital	 at  its  original  cost  and	would	havedisappeared as such if the proper accounting basis had	beenadopted,  viz.,	 the  fixed block bad  been  showed  at	 itsdepreciated value after deducting the amount of depreciationfrom   the  original  cost.   Such  book  entries,  it	 wascontended,   did  not  convert	that  credit  item  into   adepreciation  fund  available to the company and  there	 wastherefore   no	basis  for  the	 contention  that   such   adepreciation fund ever existed and could be used as  workingcapital	 in  the  business.  The other was  that  there	 wasnothing on the record to show that such a depreciation fund,if  any, had been, in fact, used as working capital  in	 thebusiness during that year.The  answer  furnished by the appellant in  regard  to	boththese contentions was that on a true reading of the balance-sheet  Rs. 41,81,196 were reserves used as working  capital,vide   calculations   in  Exhibit   C-12.    Provision	 fordepreciation was Rs. 1,10,29,954 and the paid up capital wasRs.  80,00,000 thus totaling to Rs. 1,90,29,954.  The  totalcapital	 block as shown in page 5 of the  balance-sheet	 forthe  year ending June 30, 1955, was Rs. 1,48,48,758 and	 theworking capital therefore was Rs. 41,81,196.  This was apartfrom Rs. 7,42,139 which was the total of the three items  atpage  4 of the balance-sheet: Rs. 98,405  capital  reserves,Rs.  4,73,734 other reserves and Rs. 1,70,000 provision	 fordoubtful  debts	 as  also the  investments,  cash  and	bankbalance.   This	 being the true position it follows  on	 thefacts of the present case that this958amount	was  available for use as working  capital  and	 thebalance-sheet showed that it was in fact so used.  Moreover,DO objection was urged in this behalf nor was any finding tothe contrary recorded by the Tribunal.We are, therefore, of the opinion that the reasoning adoptedby  the	 Tribunal  was not correct  and	 the  appellant	 wasentitled  to  4%  return on the	 reserves  used	 as  workingcapital	 including the sum of Rs. 41,81,196.  The  appellantwas  thus  entitled  to Rs. 1.96 lacs as the  4%  return  onreserves  used	as working capital and not merely  Rs.	0.29lacs as allowed by the Tribunal.The  provision	for rehabilitation bad been claimed  by	 theappellant  at Rs. 1.10 lacs on the basis of 10% of  the	 netprofits relying upon para. 20 of the Report of the Committeeon  Profit Sharing in which the Committee had proposed	that10% of the net profits should compulsorily be set aside	 forreserves to meet emergencies as well as for  rehabilitation,modernization and reasonable expansion.	 No evidence was  atall  led  by the appellant before the Tribunal	showing	 thecost  of  the  machinery  as  purchased,  the  age  of	 themachinery,  the estimate for replacement etc., in  order  tosubstantiate this claim for rehabilitation and the appellantwas  content merely to rely upon this recommendation of	 theCommittee on Profit-sharing.  This was rightly considered bythe  Tribunal  as insufficient to  support  the	 appellant'sclaim, though it allowed for rehabilitation, in addition  tothe  statutory	depreciation,  the  amount  for	 which	 theappellant  had	actually made provision, viz.,	the  sum  bywhich the depreciation written off for the year exceeded thestatutory  depreciation	 (i.  e., Rs.  10,00,000  minus	 Rs.9,82,799Rs.  17,201).  The amount was really small  and	 didnot affect the bonus to be awarded.  The Tribunal, in  fact,allowed	 the same, though it appears that in the absence  ofevidence  of the nature above referred to even that  sum  ofRs. 0.17 lacs ought not to have been allowed.  In this stateof  affairs  it	 is really impossible for us  to  allow	 theappellant's claim for rehabilitation in anything beyond	 thesum of Rs. 0.17 lacs actually959allowed	 by the Tribunal and the claim of the appellant	 forany further provision for rehabilitation must be  disallowedfor the purpose of the bonus calculations for the year underconsideration.	It will however be open to the appellant  toclaim  higher rehabilitation for subsequent years if it	 cansubstantiate its claim by adducing proper evidence.In  addition to these various sums allowed to the  appellantby  way	 of prior charges against the gross  profits  earnedduring the accounting year the Tribunal also allowed to	 theappellant  Rs. 2.50 lacs by way of provision  for  debentureredemption  fund.  The claim of the appellant was for a	 sumof  Rs.	 3.50  lacs  for the same and  it  arose  under	 thefollowing   circumstances.    The   appellant	had   issueddebentures  of the value of Rs. 30 lacs in the year  1942-43and  they  were redeemable in the year 1962-63.	  No  annualprovision  had been made from profits for redemption of	 thesame  inasmuch as until the year 1949 the appellant was	 notworking	  at  a	 profit.   Such	 provision  was	 made	onlythereafter.   For  the year 1950-51, the  appellant  made  aprovision for Rs. 75,000 for debenture redemption fund,	 for1951.52, Rs. 1,50,000, for 1952-53 Rs. 1,50,000, for 1953-54Rs.  75,000  and  further  provision  had  to  be  made	 forredemption  of debentures in a sum of Rs. 24,50,000.  In  sofar  as	 7  more years were left before	 the  due  date	 forredemption the appellant claimed Rs. 3,50,000 as the  annualsum  to	 be  set apart, though as a matter of  fact  in	 thebalance-sheet only a provision of Rs. 2,50,000 had been madeby  it	for  debenture	redemption  reserve.   The  Tribunalpointed	 out  that when the appellant had  in  its  accountsappropriated Rs. 2,50,000 for the debenture redemption	fundthe  claim  to have Rs. 3,50,000 for the purposes  of  bonusformula	 was  clearly  untenable.  It  however	was  of	 theopinion	 that  a reasonable provision  for  redemption	fundshould be allowed as a prior charge and actually allowed thesum of Rs. 2,50,000 which had been actually provided for thepurpose	 in the balance-sheet, negativing the contention  ofthe  respondents  that no provision should  be	allowed	 fordebenture redemption fund in the bonus formula.960We are of the opinion that the Tribunal was not justified inallowing the sum of Rs. 2,50,000/- for debenture  redemptionfund as a prior charge in the bonus calculations.  The	FullBench  Formula does not envisage any such prior charge.	  Itis  no	doubt true that capital is shy and it would  not  bepracticable  for  the  industrial  concern  to	raise  largeamounts by way of fresh debentures when they become due.  Itis also true that the debentures do not stand on a par	withother debts of a concern because the debentureholders  wouldin a conceivable situation be able to enforce their securityby  bringing  the industry to a stand-still by	taking	overcharge of the whole concern.  It would therefore appear thatthe  redemption	 of  these debentures would be	one  of	 theprimary	 obligations  of  the  industrial  concern  and	 dueprovision has of necessity to be made for redemption thereofon  due	 date.	 This  however does not	 mean  that  in	 thecalculations of the distributable surplus the provision	 forsuch  redemption  should  be given the	status	of  a  priorcharge,	 though	 of  course that would be  a  relevant	con-sideration while distributing the available surplus  betweenthe various interests entitled thereto.	 We are therefore ofopinion	 that  the  Tribunal  was  wrong  in  allowing	 Rs.2,50,000/- as a prior charge in the bonus calculations.This  disposes of all the contentions which have been  urgedon behalf of both the parties and calculating the figure  onthat basis we arrive atthe following					Rs. in lacs.Gross Profit as per Tribudal's calculations	    36.21Less: Notional Normal Depreciation		      6.23					       29.98Less: Tax @ 7 as. in a rupee			      11.55					       18.43Less:	  6% return on ordinary share capitaland 5% on preference share capital		       4.30					       14.13961Less:	  4% Return on reserves used as working capital:		     7,42,139		   29		 + 41,81,196		  1.67	       ---------------------		  49,23,335		       1.96					   -------------					       12.17Less:Provision for Rehabilitation		       0.17					    ------------     Available Surplus				      12.00This would bring the available surplusfor distribution	toa sum of Rs. 12 lacs and this would be distributable amongstthe shareholders, the company and the workmen concerned.It is not feasible to lay down any rigid formula as to	whatthe  proportion of such distribution amongst  these  variousinterests  should  be.	 The shareholders  as  well  as	 thecompany	 would	both be naturally interested inter  alia  inproviding the debenture redemption reserves as also  meetingthe  needs  of	the industry  for  further  expansion.	 Theworkmen would no doubt be interested in trying to bridge thegap  between  their actual wage and the living wage  to	 theextent feasible.  This surplus of Rs. 12 lacs would have  tobe  distributed amongst them having regard to the facts	 andcircumstances  of  the case, of course bearing in  mind	 thevarious considerations indicated above.Before we arrive at the figure of the actual bonus which  itwill  be  appropriate in the circumstances of this  case  toallow  to the workmen, we may advert to one  argument  whichwas pressed before us. on their behalf and that was that thebonus  calculations should not be made on the basis  of	 theAll-India figures which were adopted by the Tribunal but  onthe basis of the actual amounts which the appellant had paidand  would  have to pay to the workmen	concerned.   It	 waspointed out that the respondents here were only the  workmenin the Wadala Factory of the appellant.	 The appellant	had,however, paid to the various workmen elsewhere as and by wayof bonus sums varying between 4% and 29% of the basic  wagesfor  the year in question.  The sum of Rs.  1,23,138/-	onlyhad been121962paid in full and final settlement to the workmen in some  ofthe  factories	and the bonus calculations on  an  All-Indiabasis  would thus work to the advantage of the appellant  inso  far as they would result in saving to the  appellant  ofthe  difference between the amounts to which  those  workmenwould  be  entitled on the basis of  the  All-India  figuresadopted	 by  the Tribunal and the amounts actually  paid  tothem   as   a	result	of   agreements,   conciliation	  oradjudication.	 It   was  therefore  contended	  that	 thecalculations  should be made after taking into	account	 thesavings thus effected by the appellant and only a sum of Rs.1,23,138  /- which was the actual sum paid to those  workmenshould be taken into account and no more.  We are afraid, wecannot	accept	this  contention.  If  this  contention	 wasaccepted  the respondents before us would have an  advantageover those workmen with whom settlements have been made	 andwould get larger amounts by way of bonus merely by reason ofthe fact that the appellant had managed to settle the claimsof  those workmen at lesser figures.  If this contention  ofthe  respondents was pushed to its logical extent  it  wouldalso  mean  that in the event of the non-fulfilment  of	 theconditions  imposed  by the Tribunal in the award  of  bonusherein	bringing in savings in the hands of  the  appellant,the respondents would be entitled to take advantage of thosesavings also and should be awarded larger amounts by way  ofbonus,	which  would really be the result of  the  claimantsentitled  to  the  same	 not  receiving	 it  under   certaincircumstances-an  event which would be purely an  extraneousone and unconnected with the contribution of the respondentstowards	 the  gross profits earned by  the  appellant.	 TheTribunal  was, therefore, right in calculating the bonus  onan All-India basis.By our order dated April 12, 1957, the appellant was orderedto  pay to the respondents within a fortnight from the	datethereof bonus for the year 1954-55 equivalent to two months'basic wages; that amount has already been paid and works outat Rs. 3.39 lacs on an All-India basis.The  only question which therefore survives is what  furtherbonus, if any, would the respondents be entitled963to  from the distributable surplus of Rs. 12 lacs.  The	 sumof  Rs.	 3.50 lacs required for building  up  the  debentureredemption   reserve  is  an  all-engrossing  need  of	 theappellant  and that is a factor which must of  necessity  betaken  into  consideration while arriving  at  the  ultimatefigure,	  particularly	because	 such  redemption   of	 thedebentures  would  enure  not only for the  benefit  of	 theCompany	 and  its  shareholders	 but  also  of	the  workmenemployed therein.  Having regard to all the circumstances ofthe case, we feel that an award of four months' basic  wagesas  aggregate bonus for the year 1954-55 (which by  the	 waywas  the bonus awarded for the previous year  1953-54  also)would  give a fair share to the labour in the  distributablesurplus,  leaving  to  the shareholders and  the  company  abalance	 of  Rs. 5.22 lacs to be utilised by them  not	onlytowards building up of the debenture redemption reserve	 butalso for building up other reserves, which would be utilisedfor  various other purposes indicated above.  The  appellantwould no doubt get also the refund of the income-tax on	 thebonus  payments	 made  by it.  This  rebate  would  also  gotowards	 the fulfilment of the very same  objectives,  whichwould  ultimately enure both for the benefit of the  capitalas well as labour. We  have,  therefore,	come. to  the  conclusion  that	 theappellant should pay to the respondents, in addition to	 thetwo months' basic wages already paid to them in pursuance ofthis  Court's order dated April 12, 1957, an additional	 sumequivalent  to two months' basic wages by way of  bonus	 forthe year 1954-55 subject to the same conditions as were laiddown in the award of the Tribunal above referred to, all thedates  mentioned therein being calculated from the  date  ofthis judgment.We  accordingly	 allow the appeal, modify the award  of	 theIndustrial  Tribunal to the extent mentioned above,  but  inthe circumstances of the case we make no order as to  costs,each party bearing and paying its own costs thereof.Appeal allowed.964