PETITIONER:H.   H. RAJA HARINDER SINGH	Vs.RESPONDENT:S.KARNAIL  SINGHDATE OF JUDGMENT:20/12/1956BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  271		  1957 SCR  208ACT:Election  petition-Limitation  for  filing  expiring  on   aholiday	 -  Petition filed next day-Whether  Petition  time-barred-Candidate  putting  his	own  servants  to   electionwork--Whether  the  servants  aye employed  foy	 payment  inconnection  with the election-Whether the salaries  of	suchservants are election exPenses-Representation of the  People(Conduct  of Elections and Election Petitions) Rules,  1951,Yr. 118 and 119--General Clauses Act (X Of 1897), s. 10.HEADNOTE:The  last day for filing the election petition was a  Sundayand  the day following was a public holiday.   The  petitionwas presented on the next day after the public holiday.Held,  that s. 10 of the General Clauses Act was  applicableand that the petition was presented within time.The  appellant, who retains a large staff  of  subordinates,was  charged with employing 54 of them for purposes  of	 theelection  in  violation	 of Rule 118,  and  with  failure-toinclude	 their	salaries  in  the  return  of  his  electionexpenses.   The election tribunal found that 25 of  the	 oldpaid  employees of the appellant took part in  his  electioncampaign,  that their number exceeded the  statutory  numberprovided by Rule 118 and that consequently the appellant wasguilty	of a major corrupt practice under s. 123 (7) of	 theRepresentation	of  the	 People	 Act,  1951.   The  tribunalfurther	 held  that there was no evidence to show  that	 theemployees were engaged specifically for the purposes of	 theelection, that they had been in the service of the appellantfor  a long time and that the emoluments paid to  them	werenot election expenses.	In the result the tribunal set asidethe election of the appellant:Held,  that where a person has been in the employment  of  acandidate  even prior to his election and his duties do	 notinclude election work but he takes part in the election, andthe  work which he does is casual and is in addition to	 hisnormal work, he is not within Rule 118.	 But if the work  inconnection  with  the  election is such	 that  he  could  beregarded as having been taken out of his normal work and puton election work, then he would be within Rule 118.Hartlepooles Case, 6 O'M. & H. 1 and Borough of Oxford Case,7 O'M. & H. 49, referred to.If  the members of the staff of a candidate do their  normalwork and do casual work in connection with the election, thepayment	 of  salary to them would be payment on	 account  oftheir			    209employment  as such members of the staff and not in  connec-tion with the election.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 132 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedMay  16,  1955,	 of  the  Election  Tribunal,  Bhatinda,  inElection Petition No. 14 of 1954.C.   K.	  Daphtary,  Solicitor-General	of  India,   J.	  B.Dadachanji, S. N. Andley, Rameshwar Nath and K. C. Puri, forthe appellant.N.C. Chatterji, A. N. Sinha and Gopal Singh, for  respondentNo. 1.1956.  December 20.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyVENKATARAMA AIYAR J.-The appellant was one of the candidateswho  stood for election to the Legislative Assembly  of	 thePaterson  and  East  Punjab States  Union  from	 the  FarberConstituency  in  the General Elections held  in  1954.	  Hesecured	 the largest number of votes, and was declared	dulyelected.  The result was notified in the Official Gazette onFebruary  27, 1954, and the return of the election  expenseswas published therein on May 2, 1954.  On May 18, 1954,	 thefirst  respondent  filed  a  petition under  s.	 81  of	 theRepresentation	of  the	 People	 Act  No.  XLIII  of   1951,hereinafter  referred -to as the Act, and therein he  prayedthat the election of the appellant might be declared void onthe  ground  that We and his agents  had  committed  variouscorrupt	 and  illegal practices, of which  particulars	weregiven.	 The  appellant filed a	 written  statement  denyingthese allegations.  He therein raised the further contentionthat the election petition had not been presented within thetime  limited  by  law, and was,  therefore,  liable  to  bedismissed.   Rule  119, which prescribes the  period  withinwhich  election petitions have to be filed, runs, so far  asit is material, as follows:119.	  "Time	 within which an election petition shall  bepresented  :--An  election petition calling in	question  anelection may,-27210(a)  in	 the case where such petition is against a  returnedcandidate,  be presented under section 81 at any time  afterthe date of publication of the name, of such candidate undersection 67 but not later than fourteen days from the date ofpublication of the notice in the Official Gazette under rule113  that the return of election expenses of such  candidateand the declaration made in respect thereof have been lodgedwith the Returning Officer-,"The  last  date for filing the petition, according  to	thisRule, was May 16, 1954, but that happened to be a Sunday andthe  day following had been declared a public  holiday.	 Thefirst respondent accordingly presented his   petition on May18, 1954, and in paragraph 6 stated as follows:"The offices were closed on 16th and 17th; the petition	is,therefore, well within limitation."On this,, the Election Commission passed the following order:"The petition was filed on l8-5-1954.  But for the fact that16-5-1954  and 17-5-1954 were holidays, the  petition  wouldhave been time-barred.	Admit."The  plea  put	forward	 by the	 appellant  in	his  writtenstatement based on Rule 119(a) was that whatever might	havebeen the reason therefor, the fact was that the petition hadnot  been  filed  "not later than fourteen  days"  from	 thepublication  of the return of the election  expenses,  whichwas  on	 May  2,  1954, and  that  it  was,  therefore,	 notpresented   within  the	 time  prescribed.    The   Tribunaloverruled  this plea on the ground that under Rule  2(6)  ofthe  Election Rules, the General Clauses Act X of  1897	 wasapplicable  in	interpreting them, and that under s.  10  ofthat  Act,  the election petition was presented	 within	 thetime  allowed by Rule 119(a). - On the merits, the  Tribunalheld  that  of	the  grounds put  forward  in  the  ElectionPetition, one and only one had been substantiated, and	thatwas  that  the	appellant  had	'employed  for	payment,  inconnection with his election, 25 persons in addition to	 thenumber	of  persons allowed under Rule 118 read	 along	withSchedule VI thereto, and had thereby211committed the major corrupt practice mentioned in s.  123(7)of the Act.  The Tribunal accordingly declared the  electionvoid  under s. 100(2)(b) of the Act.  It also observed	thaton  its	 finding aforesaid, the appellant had  incurred	 thedisqualification enacted in ss. 140(1)(a) and 140(2) of	 theAct.   Against	this decision, the appellant  has  preferredthis appeal by special leave.On  behalf  of	the appellant,	two  contentions  have	beenpressed	 before	 us:  (1) that	the  election  petition	 waspresented  beyond  the time prescribed by Rule	119(a),	 andshould	have been dismissed under s. 90 (4) of the Act;	 and(2)  that  on  the findings recorded by	 the  Tribunal,	 theconclusion  that  Rule	118 had been  contravened  does	 notfollow and is erroneous.The first question turns on the interpretation of s.   10 ofthe General Clauses Act, which is as follows:"Where	by  any	 Central Act or Regulation  made  after	 thecommencement of this Act, any act or proceeding is  directedor  allowed to be done or taken in any Court or office on  acertain day or within a prescribed period, then if the Courtor  office  is	closed on that day or the last	day  of	 theprescribed period, the act or proceeding shall be consideredas  done or taken in due time if it is done or taken on	 thenext day afterwards on which the Court or office is open."The  contention	 of Mr. Solicitor-General on behalf  of	 theappellant  is that this section can apply on its  own  termsonly  when  the act in question is to be done  "    within aprescribed period", that under Rule 119(a) the petition	 hasto  be	filed "not later than" fourteen days, that  the	 twoexpressions  do	 not mean the same thing, the words  of	 theRule  being more peremptory, and that accordingly s.  10  ofthe  General  Clauses  Act cannot be invoked  in  aid  of  apetition presented under Rule 119, later than fourteen days.In  support of this contention, he invites our attention  tosome  of the Rules in which the expression "the time  withinwhich" is used, as for example, Rule 123, and he argues thatwhen a statute uses two different expressions, they must  beconstrued  as used in two different senses.  He also  pointsout that whenever the Legislature intended212that  if  the last date on which an act could  be  performedfell on a holiday, it could be validly performed on the nextworking	 day, it said so, as in the proviso to s. 37 of	 theAct,  and that there would be no need for such a  provision,if s. 10 of the General Clauses Act were intended  generallyto apply.This argument proceeds on an interpretation of s. 10 of	 theGeneral Clauses Act which, in our opinion,is erroneous.Broadlystated, the object of the section is	to  enable a  personto do what he could have done on   a  holiday, on  the	nextworking	 day.  Where, therefore, a period is prescribed	 forthe  performance  of an act in a court or office,  and	thatperiod	expires on a holiday, then according to the  sectionthe  act should be considered to have been done within	thatperiod, if it is done on the next day on which the court  oroffice	is open.  For that section to apply, therefore,	 allthat  is  requisite is that there should be a  period  pres-cribed, and that period should expire on a holiday.  Now, itcannot	be denied that the period of fourteen days  providedin  Rule I 1 9 (a) for presentation of an election  petitionis  a  period prescribed, and that is  its  true  character,whether	 the words used are " within fourteen days" or	"notlater  than fourteen days".  That the distinction sought  tobe  made by the appellant between these two  expressions  iswithout	 substance  will  be clear beyond  all	doubt,	whenregard	is had to s. 81 of the Act.  Section 81	 (1)  enactsthat  the  election petition may be presented  "within	suchtime as may be prescribed, and it is under this section thatRule  119  has been framed.  It is obvious  that  the  rule-making authority could not have intended to go further	thanwhat the section itself had enacted, and if the language  ofthe  Rule  is construed in conjunction with  and  under	 thecoverage of the section under which it is framed, the  words"not later than fourteen days" must be held to mean the samething  as "within a period of fourteen days".  Reference  inthis  connection should be made to the heading of  Rule	 119which is, " Time within which an election petition shall  bepresented ". We entertain no doubt that the legislature	 hasused both			    213the  expressions  As meaning the same thing, and  there	 areaccordingly  no	 grounds  for  holding that  s.	 10  is	 notapplicable to petitions falling within Rule 119.We  are also unable to read in the proviso to s. 37  of	 theAct an intention generally to exclude the operation of s. 10of the General Clauses Act in the construction of the Rules,as  that will be against the plain language of Rule  2	(6).It should be noted that proviso applies only to s. 30 (c) ofthe Act, and it is possible that the Legislature might	haveconsidered  it	doubtful  whether s. 30	 (c)  would,  havingregard	to  its	 terms, fall within s.	10  of	the  GeneralClauses	 Act  and enacted the province	abundant  cauterize.The operation of such a beneficent enactment as a. 10 of theGeneral	 Clauses Act is not, in our opinion, to be cut	downon such unsubstantial grounds as have been urged before	 us.We  are accordingly of opinion that the petition  which	 therespondent  filed  on  May  18, 1954,  is  entitled  to	 theprotection afforded by that section and is in time.We should add that the appellant also raised the  contentionthat  if we agreed with him that the election  petition	 wasnot presented in time, we should hold that the order of	 theElection  Commission admitting the petition was not  one  ofcondonation  within  the  proviso to  s.  85,  because	thatproceeded on the footing that the petition was in time,	 anddid not amount to a decision that if it was not, there	weresufficient  grounds  for  excusing the delay.	We  are	 notdisposed  to  agree with this contention; but  in  the	viewwhich  we  have taken that the petition is in  time,  it  isunnecessary to consider it.Then  the  next	 question-and that is  one  of	substance-iswhether	 there	has  been contravention of  Rule  118.	 Thematerial facts are that -the appellant is the quondam  rulerof  Faridkot,  which enjoyed during the British	 regime	 thestatus	of  an independent State, and came in  for  judicialrecognition  as	 such in Sirdar Gurdyal 'Singh v.  Rajah  ofFaridkote (1), and, after Independence, became merged in theState of Pepsu.	 The(1)  (I894) L.R. 21 I.A. 171.214appellant continues to retain a large staff of subordinates,and  the charge of the first respondent in his petition	 wasthat  as  many as 54 of them were employed for	purposes  ofelection,  and that Rule 118 had thus been  violated.	Rule118 is as follows: ,"No person other than, or in addition to, those specified inSchedule VI shall be employed for payment by a candidate  orhis election agent in connection with an election."Under  Schedule VI, a candidate for election may employ	 forpayment in connection with election (1) one election  agent,(2) one counting agent, (3) one clerk and one messenger, (4)one  polling  agent and two relief polling agents  for	eachpolling station or where a polling station has more than onepolling booth, for each polling booth and (5) one  messengerfor  each polling station, or for each polling booth,  if  apolling station has more than one booth.  The finding of theTribunal on this question is as follows:"  ...	it is clear that 25 persons named in  the  foregoingparagraphs took part in the election campaign of  respondentNo.  I	apart  from any duties they may	 have  performed  aspolling	 agents.  Now admittedly all these persons are	paidemployees  of respondent No. 1. As their number exceeds	 thestatutory  number provided in Rule 118, respondent No. I  isundoubtedly guilty of a major corrupt practice under section123  (7).  A question however arises whether the  fact	thatthese persons were already in the employ of respondent No. Iand  were  not specially engaged for purposes  of  election,would take them out of purview of Rule 118.  In our judgmentit would not."Then, dealing with the question as to whether the return  ofelection expenses made by the appellant was false in that itdid  not include anything on account of the services of	 the25 employees, the Tribunal says:"  We have held under Issue No. 3 that respondent No. I	 didutilise	 the services of 25 of his employees for  furtheringhis  election  prospects.  Now there is no evidence  on	 therecord to show that these employees			    215were engaged specifically for the purposes of election.	 Allof  them had been in the service of respondent No. I  for  along time before the election in normal course.	  Therefore,there is no reason why the emoluments paid should be chargedto  the	 election  account.   However,	if  any	  additionalallowances  were paid to these persons that would  certainlybe  chargeable	to the election account.  But  there  is  noevidence  on the record to show that any such allowance	 waspaid."Now,  the  question  is whether on these facts	there  is  acontravention of Rule 118.  The contention of Mr. Solicitor-General for the appellant is that the Rule would apply	onlyif 'the employment of the persons was specifically for	workin connection with the election and such employment was	 forpayment.   In  other  words, according to  him	it  is	onlyemployment  ad	hoc  for the election that'  is	 within	 themischief of the Rule.  On behalf of the respondent Mr. N. C.Chatter	 bee contends that it is not necessary for the	Ruleto  operate  that  there  should  have	been  an  employmentspecially for the purpose of the election, and that it wouldbe sufficient if the persons who did work in connection withthe  election were in the employment of the  candidate,	 andthat  employment  carried  with	 it  payment  of  salary  orremuneration.In our opinion, neither of these contentions is wellfounded.Rule  118  does	 not require that the person  engaged  by  acandidate to work in the election should have been speciallyemployed for the purpose of the election.  It is sufficient,on  the	 wording  of the Rule, that person  is	employed  inconnection  with  the  election.   At  the  same  time,	 therequirements of Rule 118 are not satisfied by proving merelythat  the person does work in connection with the  election.That  work  must  be done under a  contract  of	 employment.Thus, if the candidate has been maintaining a regular  staffof his own and its members have been doing personal  serviceto  him	 and he has been paying them and then  the  electionsupervenes,  and off -and on he sets them on  election	workbut they continue to do their normal work as members of	 hisstaff, it cannot216be  said of them that they have been employed in  connectionwith the election.  But if, on the other hand, he takes themout  of	 their normal work and puts them  on  whole-time  orsubstantially	whole-time  work  in  connection  with	 theelection,  that	 would amount to  converting  their  generalemployment  into  one in connection with the  election.	  Itwill  be  a question of fact in each case whether  what	 thecandidate  has done amounts merely to asking the members  ofthe staff to do casual work in connection with the  electionin addition to their normal duties, or whether it amounts tosuspending  the work normally done by them and assigning  tothem election work instead.Then  again,  it is a condition for the application  of	 theRule that the employment of the person must be for  payment.If the members of the staff continue to do their normal workand  do	 casual work in connection with	 the  election,	 thepayment	 of salary to them would be a payment on account  oftheir  employment  as such members of the staff and  not  inconnection  with the election.	Rule 118 would not apply  tothat  case, as there is neither an employment in  connectionwith  the  election,  nor  a  payment  on  account  of	suchemployment.   Indeed, the salary paid to the  members  wouldnot  even be election expenses liable to be included in	 thereturn.	  But  if, in the above case, the members  are	paidextra  for  their work, such extra payment will have  to  beincluded in the return of election expenses, though it	'maybe  that Rule 118 itself might have no application  for	 thereason	that  there is no employment for  election  and	 thepayment is not in respect of such employment.  If,  however,the members of the staff are switched off from their  normalwork and turned on to election work so that it could be saidthat work has been assigned to them in supersession of theirnormal	work, then the salary paid to them could rightly  beregarded  as  payment for work in connection  with  electionwithin Rule 118.  That being our view on the construction ofRule 118, we shall now proceed to consider what the positionis, on the authorities cited before us.			    217In   the  Hartlepools  Case(1)	the   question	arose	withreference to one Butler who was the general secratary of Mr.Furness,  the  returned candidate, and certain clerks  in  acompany	 in which Mr. Furness, had  considerable  influence.All  these  persons  had taken part  in	 the  election.	  Asregards	 Butler, Phillimore J. observed that if it could  beheld that at the time' of his employment his duties includedalso  work in elections if and when they, were held, then  aproportionate  part  of	 his salary should  be	regarded  aselection expenses; but, on the facts, he held that it was nopart  of  the duties of Butler in respect  of  his  standingemployment to be election agent when called upon, and  that,therefore,  no part of his salary need be shown as  electionexpenses.   As	put  by	 Pickford,  J.,	 in  Ins  concurringjudgment, Butler was paid " his salary as private  secretaryand  was not paid anything as election agent ". Counsel	 forthe appellant relies on these observations, and argues	thaton  the finding of the Tribunal that the 25 men had been  inservice	 for  a, long time, there could be no  question,  oftheir  having  been  employed for work	in  connection	withelection,  and that they were, therefore,  neither  electionagents nor was the salary paid to them payment on account ofany  employment in connection with the election.  But  then,considering  the effect of the clerks of the company  takingpart in the election, Phillimore J. observed:"  ... I am certainly inclined to think that if	 a  businessman takes his business clerks and employs them for  electionwork which, if he had not business clerks, would be normallydone  by paid clerks, he ought to return their	salaries  aspart of his expenses."Counsel	 for  respondent  strongly relies  on  these  obser-vations.   But then, the point was not actually	 decided  byPhilimore,  J., as the evidence relatinig to the matter	 wasincomplete, and Pickford, J. expressly reserved his  opinionon  the question.. In view of the remarks of Sankey, J.,  inthe Borough of Oxford Case (2), in the(1)  [1910] 6 O'M. & H. 1.28(2) 7 O'M. &H. 49, 56-57218course	of  his	 argument,  it	is  doubtful,,how  far	 theobservations'  of  Phillimore,	J.  quoted  above  could  beaccepted  as good law.	They Were, however,. adopted in	 twodecisions  of  the Election Tribunals of  this	country,  towhich  our  attention was invited by Mr.  Chatterjee.In	 theAmritsar Case(1), the following observation occurs:We  also  consider  that if any man in the  service  of	 therespondent  were put on election work, their wages  for	 theperiod	 should	 have  been  shown  in	the   return.	(SeeHartlepools Case(2) ".The  words " put on election work " in this passage  suggestthat  the  employees had been taken out	 of  their  originalwork.	As there is no discussion of the  present  question,the authority of this decision is, in any event, little.  InFarrukhabad Case(3), this passage,, as also the observationsof   Phillimore,  J.,  we're  quoted,  and   in	  accordancetherewith,  it	was  held that the  salaries  of  TilakdhariSingh,	Kundan Singh and Drigpal Singh for the	period	theyworked in connection with the election of the respondent Nolshould	have been shown in the return It was found  in	thatcase that Tilakdhari Singh worked exclusively for 30 days inconnections  with the election and Kundan Singh and  DrigpalSingh  would appear to have similarly devoted themselves  toelection work for certain periods.  None of these cases	 hasconsidered  what  would amount to employment  in  connectionwith election, when the persons had been previously employedon  other  work;  and they throw no  light  on	the  presentquestion.The position may thsu be summed up :(1)For Rule 118 to apply, two conditions must be  satisfied,viz., there should have been an employment by the  candidateof  a  person  in  connection  with,an	election,  and	suchemployment should have been for payment.(1)  [1924] Hammond's Election Cases 83.(2)  [1910] 6 O'M. & H. 1.(3)  [1927] Hammond's Election Cases 349.			    219(2)  Where  a  person  has been in  the	 employment  of	 thecandidate  even prior to his election and his duties do	 notinclude	 work  in election 'and he takes part  in  election,whether he is to be regarded as employed in connection	withthe election will depend on the nature of the work which  heperforms during the election.(3)  When the work which he does in election is', casual andis  in	addition to the normal work for which, he  has	beenemployed , he is not within Rule l 18.	But,. if his work inconnection  with  the  election is such	 that  he  could  beregarded as having been taken 'out of his previous work	 andput on election work, then he would be within Rule 118.(4)  Whether  a person who has been previously	employed  bythe  candidate	on  other  work should	held  to  have	beenemployed in connection with election is a question -of	factto be decided on the evidence in each case.In  the	 present  case,	 the  finding  is  that	 25  personsbelonging  to the staff of the appellant had taken  part  inthe  election.	It has been found that they had been in	 theservice	 of  the appellant for a long time  and	 that  theirappointment was not colorable for election purposes.  It hasalso  been found that they were not paid anything extra	 forwhat  work  they  might have done  in  connection  with	 theelection.  But there is no finding that having regard to thework which they are proved to have done, they must be  takento  have  been relieved of their original work	and  put  onelection work.	In the absence of such a finding, it  cannotbe  held that Rule II 8 had been infringed.  It is  possiblethat the Election Tribunal did not appreciate the true legalposition  and  has  in	consequence  failed  to	 record	 thefindings  requisite  for a decision on Rule  118,  and	thatwould be a good ground on which we could, if the Justice  ofthe  case  required it, set aside the order and	 direct	 thematter	to  be	heard  afresh and  disposed  of	 by  anotherTribunal  in  accordance with law.  But we do  not  considerthat  this  is a fit case for passing such  an	order.	 Theevidence adduced by the first respondent is very220largely, to the effect that the appellant's men did electionwork  in  the morning or in the evening, that is  ,  out  ofoffice	hours.	 That shows that the work the staff  was  inaddition  to  their normal duties, and	on  the,  principlesstated	above, they could not be held to have been  employedin  connection with the election.  As the  first  respondentdoes  not  appear  himself to have under-,  stood  the	trueposition  under Rule 118 and has failed to adduce,  evidencerequisite for a decision of the question, he must fail,	 theburden	being  on  him	to  establish  that  Rule  had	beeninfringed.In  the	 result, this appeal is allowed, the order  of	the,Election Tribunal is set aside and the election petition  ofthe  first respondent will stand dismissed.  As the  partieshave each succeeded on one issue and failed on another, theywill bear their own costs, throughout.		      Appeal allowed.