PETITIONER:THE  COMMISSIONER  OF INCOME-TAX, MADHYA PRADESH  &  BHOPAL,	Vs.RESPONDENT:BHOPAL TEXTILES LTD., BHOPAL.DATE OF JUDGMENT:17/10/1960BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.DAS, S.K.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR  426		  1961 SCR  (2)	  9 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1967 SC1907	 (7)ACT:Income	Tax--Supply of goods by non-resident  company--Placeof  Payment, when place of receipt of money by	seller--Bankwhen agent of seller--Railway receipt, if document of  titleof goods--Property in goods, when transferred to buyer.HEADNOTE:Respondent,  a non-resident company, in the accounting	yearsupplied goods which were sent F. O. R. Bhopal to the buyersin British India.  The railway receipts were handed over  toa Bank in Bhopal with instructions to hand over the  railwayreceipts  to the buyers, who were named as consignees,	onlyon  receipt of payment of the bill and	collection  charges.The  branches  of  the Bank  within  the  taxable  territorycollected  the amounts due from the buyers  and	 transmittedthem to Bhopal to the credit of the respondent.The  question  was  whether the profits in  the	 goods	werereceived or deemed to be received in British India.Held,  that  the decision of this Court in  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax v. P.  M. Rathod & Co. applied to this case;	 andthe  income,  profits or gain must be deemed  to  have	beenreceived within the taxable territory.The fact of payment to the agent determines the place  wherethe  money can be said to be received by the seller.   Sincein  the	 instant case the railway receipts were	 not  to  behanded	over to the buyers by the Bank, as per	instructionsof  the	 seller, unless payment for the value of  the  goodswere  received	by the Bank which  instructions	 the  buyerscould not countermand, this was sufficient to make the	Bankan agent of the seller.Held, also, that a railway receipt is a document of title togoods,	and, for all purposes, represents the  goods.	Whenthe  railway  receipt  is handed over to  the  consignee  onpayment, the property in the goods is transferred.The  Commissioner  of Income-tax v. P. M.  Rathod  and	Co.,[1960] 1 S.C.R. 401, relied on.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 755 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedMarch  23,  1955, of the former Nagpur High Court  in  Misc.Civil Case No. 240 of 1953.10K.   N. Rajagopal Sastri, R. H. Dhebar and D. Gupta, for theappellant.Veda Vyasa, S. N. Andley, J. B. Dadachanji,_ Rameshwar	Nathand P. L. Vohra, for the respondent.1960.  October, 17.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredby.HIDAYATULLAH  J.-This appeal, with special leave,  has	beenfiled  against	the judgment of the Nagpur High Court  in  areference under s. 66(1) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922,by  which the High Court answered the following question  inthe negative:"  Whether  the proportionate profits on the  goods  of	 thevalue  of  Rs. 4,10,785 were received or were deemed  to  bereceived in British India, in the year of, account, by or onbehalf of the assessee Company within the meaning of Section4(1)(a) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 ".The Commissioner of Income-tax, Madhya Pradesh and Bhopal isthe appellant, and the Bhopal Textiles Ltd., Bhopal, is	 therespondent.   For the assessment year 1944-45,	the  Companywhich  was  non-resident  was  treated	as  '  resident	 andordinarily resident' under s. 4(1)(c) of the Income-tax Act.In  the	 year of account, it had supplied  its	manufacturedarticles  either to the Government of India or its  nomineesat  Agra,  Allahabad  and Delhi.  Under the  orders  of	 theGovernment,  the  goods	 were sent  direct  to	the  personsnominated,  who	 made the payment against  the	goods.	 Thegoods were all sent for Bhopal, and the railway freight	 andother  charges	were to be borne by the buyers to  whom	 therailway receipts made out in the name of the consignees weresent  by  the Company through the Imperial Bank	 at  Bhopal.The  Bhopal Branch sent the railway receipts to branches  ofthe  Bank at Agra, Allahabad and Delhi, which collected	 theamounts	 due  from the buyers, and transmitted them  to	 theImperial  Bank,	 Bhopal, to the credit of the  Company.	  Onthese  facts,  a total sum of Rs. 4,40,373 was held  by	 theDepartment to have been received in British India.  of	thatsum, an amount of Rs. 29,588 which represented the receipts11for  supplies direct to Government is no longer in  dispute.The balance represents the sum, which was the subject-matterof the reference.The  usual  appeals  followed, and  the	 contention  of	 theCompany	 that the money was not received in,  British  Indiawas  not  accepted by the Tribunal.  The  Tribunal  did	 notdecide	about  the place of accrual.  A reference  was	thenmade by the Tribunal of the question quoted above.  The HighCourt  in deciding the reference went into the	question  ofpassing	 of  property under the Indian Sale  of	 Goods	Act,1930, and came to the conclusion that since the property  inthe  goods  had passed to the buyers, the Imperial  Bank  ofIndia, Bhopal, must be " deemed to have received the railwayreceipts  as agents of the buyers ". Continuing the  reason,the learned Judges observed:"  So also the branches of the Bank at Agra,  Allahabad	 andDelhi acted as the agents of the buyers when they  collectedthe money from them and transmitted it to the Bhopal branch.In  this view, the profits cannot be said to be received  bythe  assessee  Company in British India.'  It  received	 themoney only when it reached the Bhopal branch as a credit  toits  own  account and that was not in British India  at	 thematerial time ".The  case  was not decided by the Tribunal on the  basis  ofaccrual of the income, profits or gains to the Company.	  Itwas decided on the fact of actual receipt, whether it was inBritish	 India	or  in Bhopal, which was  then	outside	 thetaxable	 territories.	We  need  not,	therefore,   concernourselves  with	 the problem whether property in  the  goodscould  be  said	 to have passed	 absolutely  to	 the  buyerswithout any right of disposal being reserved by the Company.It  is	a  matter  of some  doubt  whether  the	 goods	wereabsolutely at the disposal of the buyers after the rail. wayreceipts  were handed over to the Bank.	 It is in  evidence-and  has been adverted to by the Incometax Officer-that	 theCompany,  when	it handed over the railway  receipt  to	 theImperial Bank at Bhopal, did so along with a covering letterin  which it asked the Bank to deliver the  railway  receiptand the bill to12the   buyers  against  payment	of  the	 bill  amount	pluscollection  charges.  In this view of the matter, though  wedo not express any final opinion, we doubt whether the rightof disposal was parted with by the, Company.A railway receipt is a document of title to goods, and,	 forall  purposes,	represents  the	 goods.	  When	the  railwayreceipt	 is  handed over to the consignee  on  payment,	 theproperty in the goods is transferred.  In this case, it is amatter	of  considerable doubt whether the property  in	 thegoods  can be said to have passed to the buyers by the	merefact  of  the  railway receipts being in  the  name  of	 theconsignees,  as has been held by the High Court.   Since  weare  not  deciding  the	 question  of  accrual,	 we  do	 notelaborate the point.Coming	now  to	 the question as to  where  the	 amount	 wasreceived, we have no doubt that the view of the Tribunal wascorrect.   This	 income was received at Agra,  Allahabad  orDelhi  from  the buyers by the Imperial Bank acting  as	 theagent  of  the	Company.  The Company had  handed  over	 therailway receipts to the Bank, and asked the Bank not to handover the railway receipts to the buyers, unless payment	 wasreceived.  This was sufficient to make the Bank an agent  ofthe  Company.  The buyers could not have  countermanded	 theinstructions  given by the Company to the Bank,	 which	theywould, indubitably, have been able to	do, if the Bank	 wastheir agent.  This was laid down by	this  Court  in	 TheCommissioner of Income-tax v. P.   M.  Rathod  and   Company(1).	Mr.   Veda   Vyasa  contends  that   the   case	  isdistinguishable	 on  the ground that  the  railway  receiptsthere  were " to self ' whereas here the  railway  receipts,were  made out in the name of the consignee.  Nothing  turnsupon  this distinction.	 The document of title to goods	 wasstill  the property of the Company till payment for  it	 wasreceived  and  it  was handed over.  In	 this  view  of	 thematter,	 we are of opinion that the ruling in question	app-lies.Mr. Veda Vyasa finally contended that the agreement  betweenthe parties was that the goods were to(1)  [1960] 1 S.C.R. 401.13be  sent for Bhopal, and that the price was also to be	paidthere.	 He contended that the handing over of	the  railwayreceipts  to  the Bank at Bhopal was in furtherance  of	 theagreement,  that  the money was ultimately obtained  by	 theBank  and  handed over at Bhopal also, and that,  thus,	 themoney must be deemed to have been received there.  This,  inour  opinion, does not truly represent the character of	 thetransaction.  No doubt, under the agreement, payment was  tobe made at Bhopal; but the circumstances show that that	 wasdeparted  from,	 and  the ordinary  mercantile	practice  ofhanding over the railway receipts to one's own bankers	witha  request to hand over the receipts against payment to	 thebuyers was followed.  The Bank, as we have shown above,	 wasthus  the  agent  of the sellers, as was laid  down  in	 theruling	of this Court, and the fact of payment to the  agentdetermines  the	 place	where the money can be	said  to  bereceived by the Company.  That place was at Agra,  Allahabador  Delhi.  In this view, the income, profits or gains	mustbe deemed to have been received in the taxable	territories,and  the  answer to the question ought to have been  in	 theaffirmative.We accordingly allow the appeal, and answer the question  inthe  affirmative.   The appellant will be  entitled  to	 hiscosts here and in the High Court.Appeal allowed.14