PETITIONER:CHOUDHURY DHARAM SINGH RATHI	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF PUNJAB AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:25/11/1957BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, S.K.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  152		  1958 SCR  998ACT:       Preventive  Detention--Failure  of  the	Advisory  Board	 to       submit its report within time--Effect-Detenu, if must be set       at  liberty--Preventive Detention Act (No. IV of 1950),	ss.       10, 11.HEADNOTE:       Submission  of its report by the Advisory Board under s.	 10       of  the Preventive Detention Act within the time	 prescribed       by  that section is of the utmost importance to	the  detenu       and if the Board fails to do so any further detention beyond       that period becomes unlawful.       Consequently,  where  the case of the detenu  was  that	the       Advisory Board had not submitted its report within ten weeks       of   his	 detention  and	 his  detention	  thereafter   had,       therefore, become illegal and no attempt was made on  behalf       of  the Government to controvert that case in  the  counter-       affidavits  filed on its behalf, the detenu must be  set	 at       liberty.JUDGMENT:       ORIGINAL	 JURRISDICTION:	 Petition No. 135 of  1957.  (Under       Article	32 of the Constitution for a writ in the nature	 of       habeas corpus)       N.   C. Chatterjee and Naunit Lal, for the petitioner.       N.   S. Bindra and T. M. Sen, for the respondents.       1957.  November 25.  The following Judgment of the Court was       delivered by       DAS,  C. J.-This is an application for a writ in the  nature       of  habeas corputs filed by the petitioner who was  detained       by an order made by the District Magistrate, Karnal under s.       3 of the Preventive Detention       997       Act  on the August 18, 1957, and which was approved  by	the       State Government on August 29, 1957.       In para 10(xii) of his petition the petitioner stated'  that       he  made	 representations  before  the  Advisory	 Board	and       personally  appeared twice before it, but the Board had	not       yet passed any order and he Contends that his detention	has       become  illegal	and  bad.  Under s. 10	of  the	 Preventive       Detention  Act, the Advisory Board is enjoined, after  going       through the procedure therein laid down, to make its  report       to  the State Government within ten weeks from the  date	 of       the   detention.	  On  the  report  being  made	the   State       Government has to take steps under s. II of the Act.  If the       report is against the detention the Government has no option       but  must release the detenu forthwith.	In such a case	the       delay  in  the  submission  of  the  report  may	 result	 in       prolonging the detention beyond the period signified by	the       expression " forthwith " occurring in s. 11 read with s. 10.       On  the other hand if the report approves of  the  detention       the  Government	may  but  is  not  bound  to  continue	the       detention  and if it does decide to continue the	 detention,       it  has to fix the period of such detention.  In	 this  case       also the delay in the submission of the report deprives	the       detenu  of  the advantage of a fresh decision by	 the  State       Government  about  the continuation of his  detention.	It,       therefore,  follows  that in either case the making  of	the       report  within the time prescribed by law is of	the  utmost       importance to the detenu and the failure to make the  report       in time may quite conceivably have the effect of	 unlawfully       prolonging the detention and, therefore, after the expiry of       the ten weeks the detenu may well complain that he has  been       deprived	  of  his  personal  liberty  otherwise	  than	 in       accordance  with	 procedure  established by  law.   The	ten       weeks'  time within which the report of the  Advisory  Board       was  to be filed in this case expired on October	 27,  1957.       This Petition was filed on November 8, 1957.  The detenu may       well  complain  that  on	 and from  October  28,	 1957,	his       detention has become illegal and bad and that, in substance,       is what he has said in para. 10(xii) of his petition.       998       Learned	counsel	 appearing  on	behalf	of  the	 State	has       submitted  that there is no allegation in the petition  that       the Board has not submitted its report and that all that has       been  said is that the Board has not made any  order.   Says       learned	counsel that if the petitioner had stated that	the       Board  had  not submitted its report  the  State	 Government       could then be expected to deal with that allegation.   Under       s. 10 of the Act the Board has no power to make any order to       continue	 or discontinue the detention, but is only under  a       duty to submit its report to the State Government.  In ;this       context,	 therefore,  a	plain  reading	of  para.   10(xii)       indicates that the grievance of the petitioner, in subtance,       is  that the Board has -not submitted its report within	the       prescribed  period  and that, therefore, his  detention	has       become  illegal.	  Learned counsel appearing for	 the  State       wanted  time  to	 ascertain  whether  the  report  had  been       submitted  within  the  time.   We  do  not  think  in	the       circumstances of this case any adjournment should be  given.       The allegation was definitely made in the petition that	the       Board  had not done its-duty and the detention was  on  that       account characterised as illegal and bad but this  paragraph       has  not	 at  all  been dealt with  in  either  of  the	two       affidavits in opposition that have been filed.  There was no       scope for any misunderstanding about the petitioner's  case.       In  these  circumstances,  we are of opinion  that  no  good       reason has been shown why any adjournment should be granted.       In the view we have taken on the effect of the noncompliance       with the procedure laid down in s. 10 of the Act. it is	not       necessary  for us to go into the other points raised in	the       petition.   We, therefore, direct that a writ be	 issued	 as       prayed for and the petitioner be set at liberty forthwith.			       Writ issued.			Petitioner set at liberty.999