PETITIONER:SETH JAMNADAS DAGA AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, SOUTH BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:12/12/1960BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.DAS, S.K.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR 1139		  1961 SCR  (3) 174 CITATOR INFO : R	    1961 SC1259	 (3)ACT:Income-tax-Two	firms registered and  another  unregistered-Income from unregistered firm, if '  can be set off  againstloss from registered firms-Losses of the registered firm, ifcan be carried forward in subsequent year-Indian  Income-taxAct, 1922 (11 Of 1922), ss. 14(2), 16(1)(a) and 24(1).HEADNOTE:The  appellants	 were partners of two registered  firms	 andanother firm which was unregistered.  Their profit and	lossfor  the  assessment  year  1948-49  were  as  follows:-Fromregistered firms Rs. 11,902 loss, 1,265 loss, total loss Rs.13,167.	  Income  from	the  unregistered  firm	 Rs.  26,110profit,	  other	  income  Rs.  262.   The  income   of	 theunregistered  firm was taxed on the firm.  In assessing	 theamount	of Rs. 262 the Income-tax Officer  first  determinedthe  total income of each of the appellants by	setting	 offtheir share of the profits of the unregistered firm  againsttheir share of the loss of the registered firm.	 The  appealto  the Appellate Assistant Commissioner being	unsuccessfulappeals175were taken to the Tribunal which relying on the decisions inCommissioner  of Income-tax v. Ratanshi	 Bhavanji,  [1952]22I.T.R.	82, held that just as loss in an  unregistered	firmcould not be set off against profits from a registered firm,the  profits  in an unregistered firm could not be  set	 offagainst	 the  loss from a registered firm.  On	a  referencebeing  made to it the High Court differed from the  decisionof  the	 Tribunal,  and	 held  that  the  profit  from	 theunregistered firm could be set off against the loss from theregistered firms to find out the rate applicable to Rs.	 262which  was  other income of the assessees.  The	 High  Courtfurther held that the assessees could not carry forward	 theloss of the registered firms to the following year,  becausesuch  loss  must  be deemed to have  been  absorbed  in	 theprofits	 of  the  unregistered	firm.	On  appeal  with   acertificate of the High Court,Held,  that the view of the High Court that under ss.  14(2)and  16(1)(a) the profit and loss had to be set off  againsteach  other to find out the total income, and that  althoughthe  share  of a partner in the profits of  an	unregisteredfirm is exempt from tax, it is included in his total  incomefor the purpose of rate only, was correct but the High Courterred in holding that the losses suffered by the  registeredfirms  could  not be carried forward because they  had	beenabsorbed by the profits of the unregistered firm.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 516 of 1959.Appeal from the judgment and order dated September 3,  1957,of  the Bombay High Court in Income-tax Reference No. 49  of1957.J.M.  Thakar, S. N. Andley, J. B.  Dadachanji,	RameshwarNath and P. L. Vohra, for the appellants.A. N. Kripal and D. Gupta, for the respondent.1960.  December 12.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyHIDAYATULLAH,  J.-The  three appellants appeal	against	 thejudgment and order of the High Court of Bombay answering, inthe affirmative, the following question:	      "Whether	the  share income of  the  assessees	      from   the   unregistered	  firm	 (which	  is	      separately  taxed), namely, Rs. 26,110 can  be	      set   off	 against  their	 share	 loss	from	      registered firms, namely, Rs. 13,167?"The facts are as follows: Two of the appellants are176brothers,  and the third appellant is the widow of  a  thirdbrother,  who died during the pendency of the  appeal  aftercertificate  had been granted by the High Court.  The  threebrothers were partners in two registered firms and one otherfirm, which was unregistered.  The assessment years for	 thepurposes  of  the appeal are 1948-49 and 1949-50.   For	 theassessment  year 1948-49, the income of the  three  brotherswas the same, and it was as follows:From registered firms	 ... Rs. 11,902 loss				  1,265 loss		   Total loss Rs. 13,167Income from the unregistered firm Rs. 26,110 profitOther income				Rs.	262The  income of the unregistered firm was taxed on  the	firmand not in the hands of the partners, as was possible  underthe  provisions	 of  cl.  (b) of sub-s. (5)  of	 s.  23.  Inassessing  the	amount of Rs. 262,  the	 Income-tax  Officerfirst determined the total income of each of the  appellantsby   setting  off  their  share	 of  the  profits   of	 theunregistered  firm  against their share of the loss  of	 theregistered  firms.  The appellants contended that,  inasmuchas  tax had already been assessed on the unregistered  firm,this  could not be done, and that as there was loss  in	 thebusiness  of the registered firms, no tax was demandable  onRs.  262.   They also contended that they were	entitled  tocarry  forward	the,  loss amounting to Rs.  12,905  to	 thesucceeding year under s. 24(2) of the Income-tax Act.  Thesecontentions were not accepted by the Income-tax Officer,  towhose  order  it is not necessary to refer in  detail.	 Theassessment for the assessment year 1949-50 was also done  onsimilar lines.The  appeal  to	 the Appellate	Assistant  Commissioner	 wasunsuccessful, and six appeals were taken to the Tribunal  bythe three appellants three for each assessment year.   Theseappeals	 were disposed of by a common order.   The  Tribunalheld, relying upon the second proviso to s. 24(1), that justas loss in an unregistered firm could not be set off againstprofits			    177from a registered firm under that proviso, the profits in anunregistered firm could not be set off against the loss froma registered firm.  It relied upon a decision of the  MadrasHigh  Court  in	 Commissioner  of  Income-tax  v.   RatanshiBhavanji (1), which it purported to follow in preference  toa   decision  of  the  Punjab	High  Court  in	 Banka	 MalNiranjandas  v.	 Commissioner of Income tax (2).   The	samereasoning was applied to the assessment year 1949-50, and inthe result, all the six appeals were allowed.The order of the Tribunal involved, in addition to the pointset out above, certain other questions, which were asked  bythe assessees to be referred to the High Court for  decisionunder s. 66(1).	 The Commissioner also asked for a referencein  respect of the decision, substance whereof has been	 setout  above.   The  Tribunal referred two  questions  at	 theinstance  of the assessees and one question, which  we	havealready quoted, at the instance of the Commissioner.  In theHigh  Court, the assessees abandoned the two questions,	 andthe  High  Court accordingly expressed its  opinion  in	 thejudgment and order under appeal, on the remaining  question.The  High Court differed from the decision of the  Tribunal,and  held that the profit from the unregistered firm  couldbe  set off against the losses from the registered firms  tofind  out  the rate applicable to Rs. 262, which  was  otherincome of the assessees.  The High Court also held that	 theassessees could not carry forward the loss of the registeredfirms  to  the	following year, because such  loss  must  bedeemed	to  have  been	absorbed  in  the  profits  of	 theunregistered  firm.  It, however, certified the case as	 fitfor  appeal to this Court, and the present appeal  has	beenfiled.In  our	 opinion,  the High  Court  correctly  answered	 thequestion  referred to it, but was in error in  holding	thatthe  losses  of the registered firms could  not	 be  carriedforward,  because they must be deemed to have been  absorbedin the profits of the unregistered firm.Inasmuch as we substantially agree with the High(1)  [1952] 22 I.T.R. 82.(2) [1951] 20 I. T.R. 536.23178Court on the first part of the case, it is not necessary  toexamine	 closely  or  in detail the  reasons  on  which	 thedecision  of the High Court proceeds.  In our  opinion,	 thematter is simple, and can be stated within a narrow compass.Under  s. 3 of the Income-tax Act, income-tax is  chargeablefor  an	 assessment year at rate or rates prescribed  by  anannual Act in respect	of the total income of the  previousyear.	Section	 14 (2)(a), before its	amendment  in  1956,provided  that the tax shall not be payable by an  assessee,if  a  partner	of an unregistered firm in  respect  of	 anyportion	 of his share in the profits and gains of the  firm,computed in the manner laid down in cl. (b) of sub-s. (1) ofs.  16 on which the tax had already been paid by  the  firm.The section thus gave immunity from tax to the share of	 theassessee as a partner in an unregistered firm in respect  ofthe  share of profits received by him from the	unregisteredfirm  and  on which the unregistered firm had  already	beentaxed.	  Section  16(1)(a),  however,	provided   that	  incomputing the total income of an assessee, any sum  exemptedunder  sub-s. (2) of s. 14 shall be included.  The  combinedeffect of those two sections was stated by the High Court tobe,	      "that  although the share of a partner in	 the	      profits of an unregistered firm is exempt from	      tax,  it is included in his total	 income	 for	      the purpose of rate only.	 "We  agree  that this is a correct  analysis.   The  Tribunalrelied	upon the second proviso to s. 24(1), which  read  asfollows:	      "Provided	 further that where the assessee  is	      an  unregistered	firm  which  has  not	been	      assessed under the provisions of clause (b) of	      sub-section  (5)	of section 23 ...  any	such	      loss shall be set off only against the income,	      profits and gains of the firm and not  against	      the  income, profits and gains of any  of	 the	      partners	of  the	 said firm;  and  where	 the	      assessee is a registered firm, any loss  which	      cannot  be  set  off  against  other   income,	      profits  and  gains  of  the  firm  shall	  be	      apportioned  between the partners of the	firm	      and  they alone shall be entitled to have	 the	      amount   of  the	loss  set  off	under	this	      section."	      179	      The Tribunal came to the conclusion that,	      "...just as a partner in an unregistered	firm	      which has suffered loss will not be allowed to	      set  off	his share loss in  the	unregistered	      firm against his income from any other source,	      so  it  stands to reason that  his  loss	from	      other  sources cannot also be set off  against	      his share income from an unregistered firm.  "The decision of the Tribunal was not based upon any specificprovision  of  the  Income-tax	Act but	 upon  a  parity  ofreasoning, by which a specific provision about loss was heldto apply the other way round also.  The High Court correctlypointed out that all that s. 14, subs. (2), did was to	savethe profits of an unregistered firm from liability to tax inthe   hands  of	 the  partners.	  It  did  not	affect	 thecomputation  of	 the  total income  to	determine  the	rateapplicable under s. 3, in the light of s. 16(1)(a).  Indeed,s.  16(1)(a) clearly provided that any sum exempt  under  s.14(2) was to be included in computing the total income of anassessee,  and	in  view of  this  specific  provision,	 theconverse  of  the second proviso to s. 24(1) which  we	havequoted above, hardly applied.  To this extent, the order  ofthe  Tribunal was incorrect.  The error was pointed  out  bythe  High Court, and the question thus raised  was  properlydecided.  We see no reason to differ from the High Court  onthis part of the case.The  question,	however, arose before the High Court  as  towhether in view of this decision, the assessees could  carryforward	 loss  from the registered firms in  the  subsequentyear  or years.	 The High Court came to the conclusion	thatthey could not carry forward the loss.	Indeed, the Tribunalhad earlier stated that if the profits from the unregisteredfirm were to be set off against the losses of the registeredfirms,	such  losses  would not be carried  forward  to	 thefollowing  year, and that would be contrary to s.  24.	 TheHigh Court rejected this ground in dealing with the questionas  to the rate applicable to the other income, and  pointedout-and	 in  our  view, rightly, that under  ss.  14(2)	 and16(1)(a)  the profits and losses had to be set	off  againsteach other, to find out the total income.180The High Court, however, held that once losses were set	 offagainst profits, they were to that extent absorbed, and thatthere  was nothing to carry forward.  This  conclusion	doesnot follow.  Section 24 provides for  a different  situationaltogether; it provides for the	 carrying forward of a	lossin business to the subsequent year or years till the loss isabsorbed  in profits, or till it cannot be  carried  forwardany further.  That has little to do with the manner in whichthe total income of an assessee has to be determined for thepurpose	 of finding out the rate applicable to	his  income,taxable	 in the year of assessment.  To read the  provisionsof  ss. 14(2) and 16(1)(a) in this extended manner would  beto  nullify in certain cases s. 24 altogether.	 Neither  issuch an intention expressed; nor can it be implied.  In	 ouropinion,  though the decision of the High Court on the	mainissue  and  on	one aspect of the  question  posed  for	 itsopinion	 was correct, it was in error in deciding  that	 thelosses of ,the registered firms could not be carried forwardbecause	 they  had  been  absorbed by  the  profits  of	 theunregistered firm.To  this  extent, the judgment and order of the	 High  Courtwill  stand  modified.	Subject to  that  modification,	 theappeal will be dismissed.  In the circumstances of the case,there will be no order as to costs.	    Appeal dismissed with modification.181