PETITIONER:M/S.  NORTH BROOK JUTE CO.  LTD.AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THEIR WORKMENDATE OF JUDGMENT:23/03/1960BENCH:ACT:Industrial  Dispute--Rationalisation scheme objected  to  byworkmen--Scheme	 put  into operation  Pending  reference  toTribunal--Workmen's  refusal  to  work--Lock-out--Claim	 forwages  for the period of lock-out--Industrial Disputes	Act,1947 (14 of 1947), ss. 3(2), 9A, 33, 33A.HEADNOTE:A rationalisation scheme in the mills of the appellant	com-panies	was  agreed to by the Works Committee and  a  noticeunder S.  9A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, was givento the365Union  of their workmen.  The workmen, however, objected  tothe introduction of the scheme and the dispute was  referredby the Government to the Tribunal on December 13, 1957.	  OnDecember  16,  the  management	of  the	 companies  put	 therationalisation	 scheme	 into  operation  but  the   workmenrefused	 to  do the additional work placed on  them  by	 thescheme.	 Later, the same day, the mills declared a lock-out.Work was, however, resumed a few days later as a result of asettlement,  and a dispute arose as to whether	the  workmenwere entitled to the payment of wages for the period  duringwhich the mills were closed:Held,  (1) that the workmen's representatives on  the  WorksCommittee  represented the workmen only for the	 purpose  ofthe  functions of the Works Committee and that the  approvalof the scheme of rationalisation by the Works Committee	 wasnot binding on the workmen or their Union.Kemp and Company Ltd. v. Their Workmen, [1955] 1 L.L.J.	 48,approved.(2)  that  the introduction of a rationalisation scheme	 wasan  alteration of conditions of service to the prejudice  ofthe  workmen.(3)  that the alteration of conditions of service  was	madenot  when notice under s. 9A of the Industrial Disputes	 Actwas  given  but	 on December 16,  when	the  rationalisationscheme was put into operation, and that as it was done	whenthe  reference	was pending before the Tribunal,  it  was  acontravention of s. 33 of the Act.(4)  that  the closure of the mills in the circumstances  ofthis  case by the employer amounted to an  illegal  lock-outand  that the workmen unable to work in consequence  of	 thelock-out  were entitled to wages for the period	 of  absencecaused by such lock-out.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 141 of 1959.Appeal by special leave from the Award dated July 19,  1958,of the Fourth Industrial Tribunal, West Bengal, in Case	 No.VIII-240 (166)/57.C.   K.	 Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India,	Vidya  Sagarand B. N. Ghosh, for the appellants.P.   K.	 Sanyal and P. K. Chakravarty for R. C.	 Datta,	 forthe respondents.1960.  March 23.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byDAS  GUPTA, J.-On December 13, 1957, the Government of	WestBengal referred under s. 10 of the Industrial Disputes,	 Actthe  following	dispute between M/S.  Northbrook  Jute	Co.,Ltd., and Dalhousie Jute Mills Who are appellants before  usand their workmen:-47366" Do the proposals of rationalisation in the above two millsinvolve	 any increase in workload ? If so, what	 relief	 theworkmen are entitled to ?"Almost	a  month before this the proposal of  introducing  arationalisation scheme in time mills of these companies	 hadbeen  considered  at an extraordinary meeting of  the  WorksCommittee  and the Committee had agreed to the proposal.   Anotice tinder s. 9A of the Industrial Disputes Act was	thengiven by the companies to the Unions of their workmen and itwas because the workmen objected to the introduction of	 therationalisation scheme that the dispute arose and was refer-red by the Government to the Tribunal.	On December 16	whenthe  above  reference was pending before  the  Tribunal	 themanagement.  of these mills put the  rationalisation  schemeinto operation but the workmen refused to do the  additionalwork  placed on them by the scheme.  Later the same day	 themills  declared a lock-out.  Work was however resumed  againin  all	 departments  excepting the  weaving  and  finishingdepartments on December 20, and in these two departments  onDecember 21, as a result of a settlement arrived at  betweenthe  workmen  represented by their Unions and the  Mills  asregards the introduction of the rationalisation scheme.	 Buta dispute arose as regards the payment	of wages to  workmenfor their dues during the period when the mills were closed,viz.,  16th  December to 20th December in  the	weaving	 andfinishing departments and 16th December to 19th December  inall  other departments.	 This dispute was also	referred  tothe Tribunal by an order of the Government dated February 1,1958.	 The   earlier	issue  as   regards   the   proposedintroduction of the rationalisation scheme was also  amendedin view of what had happened in the meantime by substitutingtherefore  :--"	 Have the rationalisation  effected  in	 theabove  two  mills  since 16th December, 1957,  involved	 anyincrease  in the workload ?  To what relief the workers	 areentitled to ?" We are no longer concerned with this issue asthe  decision of the Tribunal thereon which is	against	 theworkmen	 is  no longer disputed.  As regards the  other	 twodisputes the Tribunal has made an award in favour of the367workmen	 that they are entitled to wages for the  period  ofabsence above-mentioned.On this question the workmen's case before the Tribunal	 wasthat  the  reason that workmen could no do any work  on	 thedays in question was the illegal look-out by the  employers;the  employer's	 case was that the workmen had	struck	workillegally,  and so the closure of the mills on the  16th  ofDecember  after such strike was not illegal or	unjustified.The  Tribunal was of opinion that the eimloyer's attempt  toput  the  rationalisation  scheme into effect  on  the	16thDecember  was  a contravention of s. 33	 of  the  IndustrialDisputes  Act,	and so, the workmen's refusal  to  works  inaccordance  with that scheme was not an illegal	 strike	 andthe employer's closure of the mills was illegal.Learned counsel for the employer-mills has tried to convinceus   that  they	 had  acted  in	 accordance  with  law,	  inintroducing the rationalisation scheme on the 16th December.He  pointed  out that the Works Committee  duly	 constitutedunder the Act had considered the scheme and approved of	 it,and  argued  that as the workmen's  representatives  on	 theWorks  Committee  bad  agreed to  the  scheme,	the  workmenthemselves  should be taken to have agreed to it.  That	 theworkmen's  representatives on the Works Committee agreed  tothe  introduction of the scheme by the companies "  wheneverthey desired " is established by a copy of the resolution ofthe Works Committee.  It has to be noticed however that	 theworkmen's  representatives  on the Works  Committee  do	 notrepresent  the	workmen for all purposes, but only  for	 thepurpose	 of the functions of the Works	Committee.   Section3(2)  of  the  Act  sets out  the  functions  of  the  WorksCommittee in these words:"  It  shall be the duty of the Works Committee	 to  promotemeasures   for	securing  and  preserving  amity  and	goodrelations between the employer and workmen and, to that	 endto comment upon matters of their common interest or  concernand  endeavor to compose any material difference of  opinionin respect of such matters."368The language used by the Legislature makes it clear that theWorks  Committee was not intended to supplant  or  supersedethe  Unions for the purpose of collective bargaining ;	theyare  not authorised to consider real or substantial  changesin  the conditions of service; heir task is only  to  smoothaway  frictions that might rise between the workmen and	 themanagement in day-to-day work.	By no stretch of imaginationcan  it be said that the duties and functions of  the  WorksCommittee included the decision on such an important  matteras   the  alteration  in  the  conditions  of	service	  byrationalisation.   "  To promote measures for  securing	 andpreserving amity and good relations between the employer andworkmen	 " is their real function and to that end  they	 areauthorised to " comment upon matters of their common concernor interest and endeavour to compose any material differenceof  opinion  in respect of such matters,"  The	question  ofintroduction  of rationalisation scheme may be said to be  amatter of common interest between the employers and workmen;but the duty and authority of the Works Committee could	 notextend	to anything more than making comments thereupon	 andto  endeavour to compose any material difference of  opinionin  respect of such matters.  Neither " comments" nor the  "endeavour  " could be held to extend to decide the  questionon  which differences have arisen or are likely one  way  orthe  other.   It  was  rightly pointed	out  by	 the  LabourAppellate  Tribunal  in	 Kemp  and  Company  Ltd.  v.  TheirWorkmen(') that:" the Works Committees are normally concerned with  problemsarising	 in  the day to day working of the concern  and	 thefunctions  of  the  Works Committee  are  to  ascertain	 thegrievances  of	the employees and when	occasion  arises  toarrive	at  some agreement also.  But the function  and	 theresponsibility	 of  the  works	 committee  as	their	verynomenclature  indicates cannot go beyond recommendation	 andas  such  they	are more or less bodies	 who  in  the  firstinstance endeavour to compose the differences and the  finaldecision rests with the union as a whole.  "The  fact that the 'workmen's representatives on  the  WorksCommittee agreed to the introduction of the(1)  [1955] 1 L.L.J. 48.369rationalisation scheme is therefore in no way binding on theworkmen or their Union.The next argument was that whatever alteration was  effectedin  the	 conditions of service, was made, on the  date	whennotice under s. 9A was given and that being before the	13thDecember  there was no contravention of s. 33.	There is  inour  opinion no substance in this contention, Section 9A  inaccordance  with which the notice was given provides that  "No  employer  who  proposes  to effect	any  change  in	 theconditions  of service applicable to any workmen in  respectof any matter specified in the Fourth Schedule, shall effectsuch change-(a)  without giving to the workmen likely to be affected  bysuch a notice in the prescribed manner of the nature of	 thechange	proposed  to be effected; or(b)  within twenty-one days of giving such  notice;".	Withthe  proviso to the section we are not concerned.   What  isimportant  to  notice is that in making this  provision	 fornotice	the  Legislature  was  clearly	contemplating  threestages.	 The first stage is the proposal by the employer  toeffect	a change; the next stage is when he gives  a  noticeand  the  last stage is when he effects the  change  in	 theconditions of service on the expiry of 21 days from the dateof  the	 notice.   The conditions of service  do  not  standchanged,  either when the proposal is made or the notice  isgiven  but only when the change is actually effected.	Thatactual change takes place when the new conditions of serviceare actually introduced.It  necessarily follows that in deciding for the purpose  ofs.  33	of  the Act, at what point of time  the	 employer  "alters " any conditions of service, we have to ascertain thetime when the change of which notice under s. 9A is given isactually effected.  If at the time the change is effected, aproceeding is pending before a Tribunal, s. 33 is  attractedand  not  otherwise.  The point of time	 when  the  employerproposes  to change the conditions of service and the  pointof time when the notice is given are,equally irrelevant.It  was further contended that in any case,  the  alterationwas  not  to  the  prejudice of the  workmen.	How  such  acontention can be seriously made is difficult to370understand.   The  whole  basis	 of the	 scheme	 was  so  toallocate the machines to workmen, as to enable fewer workmento work the machines than the number previously required  sothat surplus workmen could be discharged.  The object was todecrease  the  cost of production.  The method	adopted	 forattaining  the	object	was to obtain  more  work  from	 theworkmen for approximately the same wages.  However  laudablethe  object be, it cannot be doubted for a moment  that	 thescheme	prejudiced the workmen seriously.  Mr.	Fraser,	 thecompany's  witness,  stated  in	 his  evidence	that   whilepreviously  for	 every machine in the  batching	 department,there  were  two  hands, now there are	two  hands  for	 twomachines.  In giving the reasons for the introduction of thescheme,	 he said " we had surplus labour in both the  mills.The  company was losing heavily.  Till then we	depended  onnatural	 wastage  and did not think of	rationalisation;  inNovember last year, the decision was taken to take action onrationalisation.  "Rationalisation	 which	was  introduced	 had  therefore	 twoeffects-first  that  some workers would become	surplus	 andwould face discharge; and secondly, the other workmen  wouldhave  to  carry	 more workload.	  The  introduction  of	 therationalisation	 scheme was therefore clearly an  alterationof conditions of service to the prejudice of the workmen.The alteration was made on the 16th December, when referenceas regards the scheme had already been made and was  pendingbefore the Industrial Tribunal.	 The Tribunal has  thereforerightly	 held that this introduction was a contravention  ofs. 33.Lastly it was contended that even if the introduction of therationalisation	 scheme	 was a contravention of	 s.  33	 theworkmen's remedy lay in applying under s. 33A, and that theywere  not  entitled to strike work.  Section  33A  no  doubtgives  the  workmen aggrieved by the  contravention  by	 theemployer  of s. 33 to apply to the Tribunal for relief;	 butthe existence of this remedy does not mean that the  workmenwere bound to work under the altered conditions of  service,even though these were in clear contravention of law.	Whenthey refused to do the additional work which the371rationalisation scheme required them to do, they refused  todo work, which the employer had no right in law to ask	themto  do.	  It is difficult to say that this amounted to	a  "strike" by the workmen; but even if it could be said to be a"  strike  "  such  strike  was	 certainly  not	 illegal  orunjustified.Our  conclusion therefore is that the Tribunal was right  inits  opinion that the closure of the mills by  the  employeramounted to an illegal lock-out, and the workmen, unable to"work  in consequence of the lockout, are entitled  to  wagesfor the period of absence, used by such lock-out.The appeal is therefore dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.