PETITIONER:NARAYAN RAO	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESHDATE OF JUDGMENT:15/07/1957BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1957 AIR  737		  1957 SCR  283ACT:Sessions  Trial-Proceeding  on	Police	Report-Omission	  ofPolice	Officer to furnish necessary copies to the  accused-Duty  of  inquiring Magistrate-Validity	 of  Proceeding	 andtrial-Code of Criminal Procedure (Act V of 1898), as amendedby  the amending Act of 1955 (26 of 955), ss.  173(4),	207A(3), 537.HEADNOTE:The word 'shall' occurring in sub-s. (4) Of s. 173 and	sub-s.  (3) Of S. 207A of the Code of Criminal Procedure is	 notmandatory  but	directory  and	a  non-compliance  with	 theprovisions  of those subsections, unless it can be shown  tohave  prejudiced the accused person in his  defence,  cannotinvalidate  the	 commitment proceedings	 or  the  subsequenttrial.Magistrates  holding inquiries under s. 207A(3) Of the	Codeof Criminal Procedure must, however, be circumspect and	 seethat an accused person is not handicapped in his defence  byany  omission on the part of the Police Officer	 to  furnishhim with necessary copies.Where such non-compliance is found to cause any prejudice tothe  accused,  the Court should in the interest	 of  justicereopen the proceedings and insist on a full compliance	withthe  provisions.  When it causes no prejudice, it is a	mereirregularity curable under S. 537 Of the Code.Abdul  Rahman v. The King-Emperor, (1929) L.R. 55  I.A.	 96,Pulukuri Kolayya v. King-Emperor, (1947) L.R. 74 I.A. 65 andGurbachan  Singh v. The State of Punjab, Cr.  A. NO.  48  of1957 applied.284Consequently,  in  a case where an accused person  was	com-mitted	to the Court of Session on a charge under s. 302  ofthe  Indian  Penal Code and found guilty thereunder  by	 theSessions  judge	 and awarded the capital  sentence  and	 theorder of conviction and sentence was unassailable on merits,but the Police Officer had omitted to furnish him copies  asrequired by s. 173(4) and the inquiring Magistrate to  causesuch  copies to be furnished to him under S. 207A(3) of	 theCode  of Criminal Procedure and such omission could  not  beshown  to have in any way prejudiced the accused  person  inhis defence, it was a mere irregularity that did not vitiateeither the commitment proceedings or the trial and was curedby S. 537 Of the Code.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 97  of1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedNovember  20,1956,  of	the Andhra  Pradesh  High  Court  atHyderabad  in Criminal Confirmation Case No. 18 of 1956	 andCriminal Appeal No. 240 of 1956 arising out of the  judgmentand order dated April 25, 1956, of the Court of the SessionsJudge at Karimnagar in Criminal Case No. 9/8 of 1956.R.   C. Prasad, for the appellant.R.   H. Dhebar and T. M. Sen, for the respondent.1957.  July 15.	 The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySINHA J.-The main question for determination in this  appealby  special  leave  is	whether and, if	 so,  how  far	non-compliance with the provisions of ss. 173(4) and 207A(3)  ofthe Code of Criminal Procedure, has affected the legality ofthe proceedings and the trial resulting in the conviction ofthe  appellant.	  The  appellant was tried  by	the  learnedSessions Judge of Karimnagar in what used to be the State ofHyderabad  (now part of the State of Andhra Pradesh),  unders.  302	 of  the Indian Penal Code, for the  murder  of	 hisbrother	 Baga Rao, and sentenced to death.   The  convictionand  the  sentence  were  affirmed  by	the  High  Court  ofJudicature of Andhra Pradesh, at Hyderabad, on appeal and ona  reference by the learned Sessions Judge.  Along with	 theappellant,   three  other  persons,  named   Lingarao,	 theappellant's brother, Narsingrao, the nephew of the appellantand son of Lingarao285aforesaid, and Mahboob Ali, said to be a close friend of theother  accused, were also tried under s. 302, read with	 ss.34  and	 109  of the Indian Penal Code,	 and  convicted	 andsentenced to imprisonment for life.  Their appeals also wereheard  along with the appeal preferred by the appellant	 andby  a  common  judgment, the High Court	 dismissed  all	 theappeals	 and confirmed the convictions and sentences  passedagainst all the four accused persons.  This appeal  concernsonly  Narayan  Rao who has been sentenced to  death  by	 thecourts below.The  facts of the case are short and simple.   The  murderedman  Baga Rao, who was an excise contractor,  had  separatedfrom  his other brothers aforesaid, and had partitioned	 thefamily	lands.	There were differences amongst the  brotherswhich  had  led	 to arbitration	 proceedings  a	 few  monthsearlier,  which did not satisfy Baga Rao.  On  the  Saturdayprevious to the Monday, December 26, 1955, which was the dayof  the occurrence, there was a quarrel between Baga Rao  onone  side  and Lingarao and Narsingrao on the other  in	 thefield  said  to belong to Baga Rao.  The parties  reside  invillage Kollamaddi taluk Sircilla, district Karimnagar.	  Atabout 7 a.m. "on the morning of December 26, 1955, Baga	 Raohad  been proceeding from his village towards  Nirmal  side.The accused, who appears to have been lying in wait for BagaRao,  came running from behind and the appellant  fell	uponBaga  Rao with his knife.  The other accused persons  caughthold  of  Baga	Rao  and  the  appellant  inflicted  severalinjuries on his person with his knife (M.O. 13).  At  first,Baga  Rao got himself released from the grip  of  Narsingraobut the latter chased him and overtook him.  All the accusedoverpowered  him by catching hold of the different parts  ofhis  body, and the appellant stabbed him in the	 regions  ofthe  neck, abdomen, thigh and other parts of his  body,	 thefatal  injuries being in the neck and the abdomen.   At	 thetime  of  the occurrence, P.W. 1, father's  brother  of	 theappellant, who also was proceeding towards Nirmal, saw	mostof  the occurrence and then, out of fear, hid himself  in  ahut nearby.  P.W. 2-a boy of about 12286years-a student of 4th standard in a Government school,	 wasalso proceeding in that direction that morning, and saw	 thewhole occurrence from beginning to end from a short distanceof  a few yards.  This young boy claimed the  murdered	BagaRao  as his maternal uncle, stating that his mother  is	 thesister of Baga Rao.  But the wife of the murdered man,	P.W.6, stated in cross-examination that P.W. 2-Ramchander Rao-isdistantly related to her husband and that he is not the	 sonof  her husband's sister.  The father of the  murdered	man,Chatriah,  aged	 about 85 years, who has  been	examined  asdefence witness No. 1, disclaimed all relationship with	 thesaid P.W. 2, but stated that he is related to Dharmiah, P.W.1,  who	 is no other than his full brother.   Chatriah,	 thefather, had been examined to support the defence  suggestionthat  it was P.W. 1, Dharmiah Rao and his son who  got	BagaRao  murdered  and falsely implicated the  accused  persons.That evidence has naturally not been accepted by the  courtsbelow because such a case was never sought to be made out atany previous stage of the proceedings until his	 examinationin court.  D.W. 2 who claims to be the son-in-law of P.W. 1,was  examined  only to prove that there had been  a  rivalrybetween	 P.W. I and the accused persons for the purchase  ofsome  land.   His evidence was rejected as vague and  of  norelevance.The  case  against  the appellant,  as	also  against  otheraccused persons not before this Court, rested mainly on	 theevidence of Dharmiah P.W. I and Ramchander Rao, P.W. 2,	 whofigure as the eye-witnesses.  Besides their testimony, thereis  the	 evidence  of  the  recovery  of  the  blood-stainedgarments  from	the houses of the accused  persons  and	 theblood-stained knife found near the dead body, and identifiedin court as belonging to the appellant, which were all foundby  the	 chemical examiner, to have stains of  human  blood.The  courts below have relied upon the evidence of the	eye-witnesses,  corroborated by the incriminating  circumstancesaforesaid, and have agreed in convicting and sentencing	 theaccused as stated above.287We  have  been taken through the evidence in this  case	 andafter having heard counsel for the appellant, we do not	 seeany  reasons  to  differ  from the  courts  below  in  theirestimate  of  the  evidence adduced by	the  prosecution  insupport	 of the case against the appellant.  Hence,  in	 ouropinion,  there	 is  no ground	for  interference  with	 theconclusions of the courts below on the merits of the case.It  now	 remains to consider the question of law  which	 hasbeen seriously pressed upon us.	 It has been argued, as	 wasadmitted by the learned Government Advocate before the	HighCourt, that the provisions of ss. 173(4) and 207A(3) of	 theCode of Criminal Procedure, have not been complied with, andthat,  as  a necessary consequence of those  omissions,	 theentire	proceedings  and  the trial  are  vitiated.   It  isconvenient  at	this stage to set out the  course,  in	somerespects  rather  unusual,  of the  proceedings	 before	 thepolice	and the committing magistrate as also at  the  trialbefore	the learned Sessions Judge.  When P. W. 1  aforesaidinformed  Gopal	 Rao  (P.   W.	8)-Police  Patel-about	 theoccurrence, he drew up the first information report at about11 a.m., on December 26.  All the four accused were named asthe  culprits  in the first information report.	  He  issuedthat  report  to the station house,  Gambhiraopet,  about  5miles  from the place of occurrence.  The  Sub-Inspector  ofpolice,	 P.W.  11, proceeded to the spot  and  prepared	 theinquest	 report.  He found the throat of the  deceased	cut,besides	 other injuries on the left side of the stomach	 andright thigh and three wounds on the left hand.	Two panchas,Lachmayya  and Ramayya (P.W. 10), were called by the  policeofficer and in their presence and under their signatures, heentered a long note as to what the panchas saw on the  spot,and then follows the substance of the statements of the eye-witnesses,  P.Ws.  1 and 2, aforesaid.	This record  of	 thestatements  of	the two eye-witnesses, aforesaid,  made	 thesame  day when the occurrence took place, has been  made  toserve the double purpose of what the police officer and	 thepanchas	 aforesaid  saw and heard at the spot, as  also	 therecord of the substance of the288two   main   witnesses	for  the  prosecution	before	 theinvestigating police officer.  The post mortem report,	madethe  next day, December 27, corroborated the nature  of	 theinjuries  stated  above, and added that	 the  incised  woundacross the lower part of the neck, had cut the vital  organslike   trachea,	 oesophagus  and  the  jugular	vein.	 Theprosecution  also  proved,  as exhibit	P-5,  the  panchnamaprepared the same day and signed not only by the panchas butpurporting to have been signed also by the accused  persons.This document is a record which is a complete confession  ofthe  crime from the beginning to the end by all the  accusedpersons.  This was highly irregular, but fortunately, it wasnot  a jury trial and has not, therefore, done much harm  tothe  accused  persons, but certainly the provisions  of	 theEvidence Act and of the-Code of Criminal Procedure have	 notbeen  observed.	  On January 10 and 11,	 1956,	the  learnedMunsiff-Magistrate  recorded the full length  statements  ofRamchander Rao as P.W. 1, and of Dharmiah Rao, P.W. 2, unders.  164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.  Apparently,	 thepolice, apprehending that those two persons were related  tothree out of the four accused, took the precaution of havingtheir statement so recorded.  The police report under s. 173of  Criminal  Procedure Code was made by  the  investigatingpolice	officer on January 11, 1956, and was  placed  beforethe  Munsiff-Magistrate	 on  January 12.  It  gives  a	verycomplete statement of the prosecution case and the names andfull description 'of the witnesses to be examined in supportof  the	 prosecution case.  The	 learned  Munsiff-Magistrateappears to have examined the investigating police officer asP.W.  1, and the two eye-witnesses, Dharmiah and  RamchanderRao, as P.Ws. 2 and 3, and the medical officer as P.W. 4, onor about February 15, 1956.  The record of the statement  ofthe  medical  officer  appears in the paper  book,  but	 theevidence of the other three witnesses does not appear in thepaper  book.   On  February 16,1956,  the  learned  Munsiff-Magistrate  put very detailed questions to each one  of	 theaccused persons and placed the evidence of all the witnessesexamined by him in detail, to the289accused	 persons  who have denied their	 complicity  in	 thecrime  and  who	 alleged enmity with  the  two	eyewitnessesaforesaid.   The committal order, if any, is not before	 us.The  learned Munsiff-Magistrate framed a charge	 for  murderunder s. 302, against the appellant, and' for  participationin the crime, against the other three accused, under s. 302,read with ss. 34 and 109 of Indian Penal Code.	He again puta number of questions to each one of the accused persons  asto what they had to say against the charges framed and as towhat they had to say in their defence.It  does  not  appear  that  before  the  learned   Munsiff-Magistrate  who was holding his inquiries under	 s.  207A(3)and  (4), any grievance was made that the provisions  of  s.173(4) had not been complied with by the police officer	 in-charge	of the investigation.  Nor does it appear  that	 anyrequest was made, to call upon the police officer concerned,to furnish to the accused, copies referred to in sub-s.	 (4)of s. 173 of the Code.	There is no indication in the recordthat  even  when the accused persons were  placed  on  theirtrial before the learned Sessions Judge, any such  grievanceor  any	 such request was made to that	court.	 The  cross-examination of the eye-witnesses aforesaid has been done  atsome  length,  and there are also references to	 the  recordmade by the police officer during the investigation.  It wasonly  after  the  conviction and sentences  of	the  accusedpersons by the learned Sessions Judge, when the appeals werepreferred to the High Court, that the ground is raised,	 forthe first time, in the memoranda of appeal in these terms:"The  lower  court  has	 lost sight of	the  fact  that	 themandatory provisions of ss. 173, 207A and other sections  ofthe Code of Criminal Procedure have not been complied  with,and this fact has caused a complete failure of justice."The  High Court, while dealing with this ground	 of  appeal,has  observed  that the learned Government  Advocate,  whileconceding  that the committing court had not  complied	withthe  provisions	 of  those  sections,  had  urged  that	 theomission was not sufficient to37290vitiate	 the trial unless the accused succeeded	 in  showingthat  they  had	 been prejudiced  in  their  defence.	Theyfurther observed that when the accused got the copies in theSessions Court before the recording of the statement of	 thewitnesses, it could not be said that the accused had been soprejudiced.   The  High	 Court finds, as a  fact,  that	 theaccused	 got the necessary copies of the depositions of	 thewitnesses in the Sessions Court before the statements of theprosecution witnesses were recorded by that court.  The HighCourt  also remarked that it was not denied that the  copieswere  supplied a day earlier, but that there was nothing  toshow  that the accused made any grievance that the  time  attheir disposal was too short to enable them to cross-examinethe  prosecution  witnesses,  or that  they  prayed  for  anadjournment  of	 the  case  in	order  to  enable  them	  toeffectively cross-examine those witnesses.  In view of theseconsiderations,	 the  High Court held that the	accused	 hadfailed to show any prejudice.Before	us,  no	 attempt  was made to  show  that  the	non-compliance with the provisions of ss. 173(4) and 207A(3) hadcaused	any prejudice to the accused.  The  learned  counselfor the appellant sought to argue that the omission had	 theeffect	of  vitiating the entire proceedings ending  in	 thetrial  of  the accused, and that, therefore, ipso  facto,  afresh trial became necessary irrespective of whether or	 notthe  accused  had shown any prejudice.	In other  words,  hecontended  that these illegalities rendered the	 proceedingsnull  and void and that the Court need not stop to  considerthe question of prejudice.  Section 173, sub-s. (4), of	 theCode  of  Criminal  Procedure was amended  by  the  Code  ofCriminal Procedure Amendment Act, 26 of 1955, by adding	 thefollowing:"(4)  After  forwarding	 a report under	 this  section,	 theofficer	 in charge of the police station shall,	 before	 thecommencement of the inquiry or trial, furnish or cause to befurnished to the accused, free of cost, a copy of the reportforwarded under sub-section (1) and of the first informationreport recorded under section 154 and of all other documentsor relevant extracts291thereof,   on  which  the  prosecution	proposes  to   rely,including  the statements and confessions, if any,  recordedunder  section	164 and the statements recorded	 under	sub-section	 (3)  of  section 161 of all the  persons  whom	 theprosecution proposes to examine as its witnesses.(5)Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (4),  ifthe  police  officer  is of opinion that  any  part  of	 anystatement  recorded under sub-section (3) of section 161  isnot  relevant to the subject-matter of the inquiry or  trialor  that its disclosure to the accused is not  essential  inthe  interests of justice and is inexpedient in	 the  publicinterests,  he shall exclude such part from the copy of	 thestatement furnished to the accused and, in such a, case,  heshall  make a report to the Magistrate starting his  reasonsfor excluding such part :Provided  that at the commencement of the inquiry or  trial,the  Magistrate shall, after perusing the part	so  excludedand considering the report of the police, officer, pass suchorders as he thinks fit and if he so directs, a copy of	 thepart  so  excluded  or such portion thereof,  as  he  thinksproper, shall be furnished to the accused."In  order to simplify commitment proceedings  preceding	 thetrial of accused persons by a court of Session,s. 207A	 wasadded by way of amendment of the Code at     the same  time.In the added s. 207A, sub-ss. 3 and 4,	which  are  materialportions of that section, are in these terms :"  (3)	At the commencement of the inquiry,  the  Magistrateshall,	when the accused appears or is brought	before	him,satisfy	 himself that the documents referred to	 in  section173 have been furnished to the accused and if he finds	thatthe  accused has not been furnished with such  documents  orany of them, he shall cause the same to be so furnished.(4)The Magistrate shall then proceed to take the evidence ofsuch persons, if any, as may be produced by the	 prosecutionas  witnesses  to  the	actual	commission  of	the  offencealleged;  and  if the Magistrate is of opinion	that  it  isnecessary in the interests of justice292to  take  the  evidence	 of any one or	more  of  the  otherwitnesses  for	the prosecution, he may take  such  evidencealso."It  will thus appear that in cases exclusively triable by  acourt  of Session, it is the duty of the  magistrate,  whileholding	 a preliminary inquiry, to satisfy himself that	 thedocuments  referred  in	 s.173 have been  furnished  to	 theaccused	 and if he found that the police  officer  concernedhad not carried out his duty in that behalf, the  magistrateshould see to it that is done.	After the accused have	beenfurnished  with the necessary documents, it is now  requiredto   record  evidence  of  only	 such  witnesses   for	 theprosecution  as had witnessed the actual commission  of	 theoffence	 charged  against  the accused	and  of	 such  otherwitnesses  as he may consider necessary in the interests  ofjustice.   From what has been said above, it is	 clear	thatthe  Munsiff-Magistrate did record the evidence as  requiredby sub-s. (4) of s. 207A.  But it has been found by the HighCourt, on the admission of the Government Advocate, that theprovisions  of	sub-s. 3 of s. 207A had	 not  been  compliedwith.	It  is	not clear as to whether	 all  the  documentscontemplated  by  s.  173(4), quoted  above,  had  not	beenfurnished  to  the  accused  or	 documents  other  than	 thestatements  of	witnesses  had not been	 so  supplied.	 Thejudgment  of  the High Court would appear  to  indicate	 thelatter,	 but we shall proceed on the assumption	 that  therewas, an entire omission to carry out the provisions of subs.(4) of s. 173, read with sub-s. 3 of s. 207A.  Does such  anomission  necessarily render the entire proceedings and	 thetrial  null and void; or is it only an irregularity  curablewith reference of the provisions of s. 537 (a) of the Code ?In  other words, are the provisions of S. 173(4), read	withs.  207A(3) mandatory or only directory ? There is no  doubtthat  those provisions have been introduced by the  amendingAct  of 1955, in order to simplify the procedure in  respectof inquiries leading upto a Sessions trial, and at the	sametime  to  safeguard  the interests  of	accused	 persons  byenjoining  upon police officers concerned  and	magistrates,before whom such proceedings are brought, to293see  that all the documents, necessary to give	the  accusedpersons all the information for the proper conduct of  theirdefence,  are furnished.  It has rightly been  contended  onbehalf	of  the	 appellant  that it  was  the  duty  of	 themagistrate to see that the provisions aforesaid of the	Codehave been fully complied with.	Magistrates, therefore, haveto be circumspect, while conducting such proceedings, to seeto  it	that accused persons are not  handicapped  in  theirdefence	 by  any  omission on the part	of  police  officersconcerned,  to supply the necessary copies.  But we are	 notprepared  to hold that non-compliance with those  provisionshas, necessarily, the result of vitiating those	 proceedingsand  subsequent trial.	The word "shall" occurring  both  insub-s.	(4)  of	 s. 173 and sub-s. (3) of  s.  207A  is	 notmandatory  but	only  directory, because an  omission  by  apolice	officer, to fully comply with the provisions  of  s.173,  should  not  be allowed to have  such  a	far-reachingeffect	as  to render the proceedings  including  the  trialbefore the court of Session wholly ineffective.	 Instead  ofsimplifying  the procedure, as was intended by the  amendingAct, as indicated above, the result contended for on  behalfof  the appellant, will, necessarily, result  in  re-openingthe  proceedings  and trials which may have  been  concludedlong  ago.   Such  a result will  be  neither  conducive  toexpeditious  justice nor in the interest of accused  personsthemselves.   Certainly,  if it is shown,  in  a  particularcase, on behalf of the accused persons that the omission  onthe  part of police officers concerned or of the  magistratebefore whom the committal proceedings had fended, has causedprejudice  to the accused, in the interest of  justice,	 thecourt  may  reopen the proceedings by  insisting  upon	fullcompliance with the provisions of the Code.  In our opinion,the  omission complained of in the instant case	 should	 nothave  a more farreaching effect than the omission  to  carryout the provisions of s. 162 or s. 360 of the Code.   Courtsin  India,  before such matters were taken  to	their  Lord.ships  of the Judicial Committee of the Privy  Council,	 hadtaken  conflicting views on the scope of section 537 of	 theCode in curing such omissions as aforesaid.  In the294case of Abdul Rahman v. The King-Emperor(1), their Lordshipsof the Judicial Committee had to consider the effect of non-compliance with the provisions of s. 360 of the Code.  Afterconsidering  the  relevant  provisions of  the	Code,  theirLordships  came	 to  the  conclusion  that  it	was  a	mereirregularity  which could be cured by the provisions  of  s.537.   In the case of Pulukuri Kotayya and others  v.  King-Emperor	 (2),  the Judicial Committee had  to  consider	 theeffect	of breach of the statutory provisions of s.  162  ofthe Code.  The following observations of their Lordships, atpages 75-76, are a complete answer to the arguments advancedon  behalf of the appellant before us, and  we	respectfullyadopt them:" When a trial is conducted in a, manner different from thatprescribed  by the Code (as in N. A. Subramania Iyer's	case(3)),  the  trial  is  bad, and no  question  of  curing  anirregularity   arises;	but  if	 the  trial   is   conductedsubstantially in the manner prescribed by the Code, but someirregularity  occurs  in  the course of	 such  conduct,	 theirregularity can be cured under s. 537, and none the less sobecause the irregularity involves, as must nearly always  bethe case, a breach of one or more of the very  comprehensiveprovisions  of the Code.  The distinction drawn in  many  ofthe cases in India between an illegality and an irregularityis  one	 of  degree rather than of kind.   This	 view  findssupport	 in the decision of their Lordships' Board in  AbdulRahman v. The King-Emperor (1), where failure to comply withs.  360	 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was	held  to  becured  by ss. 535 and 537.  The present case falls under  s.537, and their Lordships hold the trial valid  notwithstand-ing the breach of s. 162."In the instant case, the facts as stated above are extremelysimple.	 It was a case of a day-light murder by four personsacting	in concert and way-laying the deceased when lie	 wasout  on	 business that morning.	 Two persons, more  or	lessrelated to three of the accused(1)(1929) L.R. 55 I.A. 96.(2)(1947) L.R. 74 I.A. 65, 75-76.(3) (1901) L.R. 28 I.A. 257.295persons,  gave evidence as eye-witnesses to the	 occurrence.Their statements were recorded by the police in some  detailin  the	 inquest  report  itself on  the  very	day  of	 theoccurrence.   There  was not much scope	 for  variations  intheir  statements  during  police  investigation  and  thosebefore the court.  It was a simple case of either  believingor   disbelieving  those  two  eye-witnesses.	As   alreadyindicated,  all	 the  four  accused  persons  including	 theappellant  were	 named at the earliest	opportunity  in	 thefirst  information  report  which  was	lodged	without	 anyavoidable  delay  within a few hours after  the	 occurrence.Both  the  courts  below have preferred	 to  rely  upon	 thetestimony  of  the two eye-witnesses,  corroborated  by	 thecircumstantial	evidence  referred  to	above.	 They	haverejected  the defence suggestions supported as they  are  bythe two defence witnesses, one of whom is a common  ancestorof  three  of  the four accused persons.  It  has  not	beenargued,	 and  there is no scope for the argument,  that	 theaccused	 persons  have been prejudiced in any way  in  theirdefence.  They had to meet a straightforward case which theyfailed to do.After carefully considering the arguments advanced on behalfof  the appellant, we have come to the conclusion  that	 theproceedings  and  the trial have not been  vitiated  by	 theadmitted non-compliance with the provisions aforesaid of theCode,  and that the irregularity is curable by reference  tos.  537 of the Code, as no case of prejudice has  been	madeout.   This  Court, in the case of Gurbachan  Singh  v.	 TheState of Punjab (1), was inclined to take a similar view  ofthe  provisions aforesaid of the Code, though it  ultimatelyheld  that those provisions did not apply to the  case	thenbefore them.  The appeal is accordingly dismissed.Appeal dismissed.(1)  Criminal  Appeal No. 48 of 1957, decided on  April	 24,1957.296