PETITIONER:THE STATE OF BIHAR & OTHERS.	Vs.RESPONDENT:SM. CHARUSILA DASIDATE OF JUDGMENT:15/04/1959BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1002		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 601 CITATOR INFO : F	    1959 SC1073	 (9,12,13,15) F	    1963 SC 853	 (10,12) F	    1976 SC 871	 (31) RF	    1977 SC1523	 (21)ACT:Hindu  Religious Trusts-Property relating to  Trust  situateoutside	  State	 of  Bihar-Applicability  of   Bihar   HinduReligious   Trusts   Act   to	such	Property-Legislativecompetency-Constitutional     validity	  of	 Enactment--Applicability to Private trusts-Bihar Hindu Religious TrustsAct, 1950 (Bihar 1 Of 1951), SS.  1(2),2(1), 3	Constitutionof India, Arts. 245, 246, Sch.	VI, List 111, Item 28.Deed-Construction-Hindu Religious Trust-Private or Public.HEADNOTE:A deed of trust was executed by the respondent on March	 II,1938,  when she was residing at D in the State of Bihar,  inrespect	 of  the  properties  described	 in  the   Schedulesreferred to in the deed, some of which were situate  outsidethe State of Bihar.  In the trust deed she described herselfas the settlor, and it was recited therein that the  settlorhad installed a deity named Iswar Srigopal in her house	 andhad since been regularly worshiping and performing the	pujaof  the	 said deity; and that she had been  erecting  a	 NatMandir	to  be	named in memory of her	deceased  son.	 Therecitals  also showed that the settlor had provided for	 theconstruction of two temples (jugal Mandir), in one of  whichwas  to be installed the deity Srigopal and  other  deities,and in the other the marble image of, her preceptor and thatthe  temple, committee shall consist of the, Jugal.   Mandirshebait for the time being and six pious Hindus who must  beresidents. of D and of whom at least four shall be  Begalis.One76602of the clauses of the trust deed recited :-"The ' pronamis 'and  perquisites to be offered to the deities and  image  inthe  jugal Mandir shall form part of the  Srimati  CharusilaTrust Estate and neither the shebait nor any one else  shallhave interest or claim in or over same.,, The provisions  ofthe trust deed in regard to the ceremonials relating to freedistribution  of  food	and water and the  festivals  to  beperformed for the deity and the image, which were well knownfestivals  in which members of the Hindu  Community  usuallytake part, contemplated that they were to be done on a largescale so as to enable a large number of persons to take partin  them.  There was also a provision in the trust deed	 forthe  establishment  of a hospital for Hindu  females  and  acharitable dispensary for patients of any religion orcreed.After  the  coming into force of the Bihar  Hindu  ReligiousTrusts	Act,  1950, the President of Bihar  State  Board  ofReligious Trusts started proceedings under ss. 59 and 70  Ofthe  Act against the respondent in respect of the  trust  onthe  footing  that it was a public trust to  which  the	 Actapplied.   The respondent made an application to  the  PatnaHigh  Court under Art. 226 of the Constitution in which	 sheprayed	that  a	 writ  or  order  be  issued  quashing	 theproceedings  taken against her by the Bihar State  Board  ofReligious  Trusts  on the grounds (I) that  the	 trust	deeddated  March II, 1938, was a private endowment	created	 forthe  worship of a family idol in which the public  were	 notinterested,  (2)  that	the Act did  not  apply	 to  privatetrusts, (3) that the Act was ultra vires the Constitution byreason	of  the	 circumstance that  its	 several  provisionsinterfered  with  her rights as a citizen  guaranteed  underPart III of the Constitution, and (4) that, in any case, theAct was not applicable to the trust deed in question as someof the properties were situate outside the State ofBihar.Held  (1)  that on its true construction the deed  of  trustdated  March  11, 1938, created a religious  and  charitabletrust of a public nature.Deoki Nandan v. Murlidar, [1956] S.C.R. 756, considered.In re Charusila Dasi, I.L.R. [1946] I Cal. 473, explained.One  of the relevant considerations as to whether the  trustwas  a public trust, will be if by the trust deed any  rightof  worship has been given to the public or any, section  ofthe public answering a particular description.(2) that the Act does not apply to private endowments.Mahant Ram Saroop Dasji v. S. P. Sahi, [1959] SUPP. 2 S.C.R.583, followed.(3)  that  the	provisions of the Act do not  take  away  orabridge	 any  of  the rights conferred by Part	III  of	 theConstitution.Mahant	Moti Das v. S. P. Sahi, [1959] Supp. 2	S.C.R.	563,followed.603(4)  that  S. 3 of the Act makes the Act applicable  to	 allpublic	religious  and charitable institutions	within,	 themeaning	 of  the definition clause in S. 2(1)  Of  the	Act,which are situate in the State of Bihar and any part of	 theproperty of which is in that State.(5)  that where the trust is situate in Bihar the State	 haslegislative  power  over it and also over  its	trustees  ortheir servants and agents who must be in Bihar to administerthe  trust, and as the object of the Act is to	provide	 forthe  better administration of Hindu Religious Trusts in	 theState  of  Bihar  and  for  the	 protection  of	  propertiesappertaining  thereto, in respect of the property  belongingto  the	 trust	outside the State the aim is  sought  to  beachieved   by  exercising  control  over  the  trustees	  inPersonam, and there is really no question of the Act  havingextra-territorial operation.(6)  that,  in the present case, the circumstance  that	 thetemples	  where	 the deities were installed are	 situate  inBihar and that the hospital and charitable dispensary are tobe established in Bihar for the benefit of the Hindu  Publicin Bihar, gives enough territorial connection to enable	 thelegislature  of	 Bihar to make a law with respect  to  such.trust.Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar, [1958]  S.C.R.1355  and  The	State of Bombay	 v.  R.M.D.  Chamaybaugwala,(1957] S.C.R. 874, relied on.Saydar Gurdyal Singh v. The Rajah of Faridkote, (1894)	L.R.21 I.A. I71, distinguished.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 230 of 1955.Appeal from the judgment and order dated October 5, 1953, ofthe Patna High Court in M. J. C. No. 128 of 1953.Mahabir Prasad, Advocate-General for the State of Bihar	 andR. C. Prasad, for the appellants.N.   C. Chatterjee and P. K. Chatterjee, for the respondent.1959.  April 15.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byS.   K. DAS, J.-This appeal relates to a trust known as	 theSrimati	 Charusila  Trust and  the  properties	appertainingthereto.   By its judgment and order dated October 5,  1953,the High Court of Patna has held that the trust in  questionis a private trust created for the worship of a family	idolin  which the public are not interested and, therefore,	 theprovisions604of  the Bihar Hindu Religious Trusts Act, 1950 (Bihar  I  of1951),	hereinafter referred to as the Act, do not apply  toit.  Accordingly, it allowed an application made to it underArt.  226  of the Constitution and quashed  the	 proceedingstaken  against the respondent herein under ss. 59 and 70  ofthe  Act.   The State of Bihar, the President of  the  BiharState  Board of Religious Trusts and the  Superintendent  ofthe  said Board who were respondents to the  petition  underArt. 226 are the appellants before us.The  trust in question was created by a trust deed  executedon  March 11, 1938.  Srimati Charusila Dasi is the widow  ofone  Akshaya  Kumar  Ghose of No.  3,  Jorabagan  Street  inCalcutta.  She resided at the relevant time in a house knownas  Charu  Niwas  at  Deoghar in  the  district	 of  SanthalParganas  in  the  State of Bihar.  In the  trust  deed	 shedescribed herself as the settlor who was entitled to and  inpossession of certain properties described in schedules B, Cand D. Schedule B property consisted of three bights and oddof  land  situate  in  mohalla	Karanibad  of  Deoghar	towntogether  with buildings and structures thereon	 schedule  Cproperty  was  Charu  Niwas, also situate  in  Karanibad  ofDeoghar;  and  schedule D properties  consisted	 of  severalhouses	and  some land in Calcutta the	aggregate  value  ofwhich  was  in	the  neighborhood of  Rs.  8,50,000.   In  asubsequent  letter to the Superintendent, Bihar State  Boardof  Religious  Trusts, it was stated on	 behalf	 of  SrimatiCharusila  Dasi	 that the total annual income from  all	 theproperties  was about Rs. 87,839.  In the trust deed it	 wasrecited	 that the settlor had installed a deity named  IswarSrigopal   in  her  house  and	had  since  been   regularlyworshipping  and performing the " puja " of the said  deity;that  she had been erecting and constructing a	twin  temple(jugal mandir) and a Nat Mandir (entrance hall) to be  namedin memory of her deceased son Dwijendra Nath on the plot  ofland  described	 in schedule B and was further	desirous  ofinstalling in one of the two temples the deity Srigopal	 andsuch  other deity or deities as she might wish to  establishduring her lifetime and also of installing in605the  other  temple  a  marble  image  of  Sri  Sri  BalanandBrahmachari,  who  was her religious preceptor and  who	 wasregarded  by  his  disciples as a  divine  person.   It	 wasfurther recited in the trust deed that the settlor was	alsodesirous   of  establishing  and  founding  a  hospital	  atKaranibad  for	Hindu  females to be  called  Akshaya  KumarFemale	Hospital in memory of her deceased husband.  By	 thetrust  deed  the  settler transferred to  the  trustees	 theproperties  described  in  schedules  B, C  and	 D  and	 thetrustees  were	five in number including  Srimati  CharusilaDasi  and her deceased husband's adopted son  Debi  PrasannaGhosh;	the other three trustees were Amarendra Kumar  Bose,Tara Shanker Chatterjee and Surendra Nath Burman, but  they.were  not  members of the family of the	 settlers  AmarendraKumar  Bose resigned from the office of trusteeship and	 waslater  replaced	 by Dr. Shailendra Nath	 Dutt.	 The  trustsimposed	 under	the  trust deed	 were-(1)  to  complete	 theconstruction of the two temples and the Nat Mandir at a costnot exceeding three lakhs to be met out of the trust  estateand donations, if any ; (2) after the completion of the	 twotemples, to instal or cause to be installed the deity  IswarSrigopal  in one of the temples and the marble image of	 SriBalanand Brahmachari in the other and to hold a consecrationceremony and a festival in connection therewith ; (3)  afterthe  installation ceremonies and festivals mentioned  above,to  provide for the payment and expenditure of the  daily  "sheba puja " and periodical festivals each year of the deitySrigopal and such other deities as might be installed at  anamount	not  exceeding the sum of Rs. 13,600 per  annum	 andalso to provide for the daily " sheba " of the marble  imageof  Sri Balanand Brahmachari and to celebrate each  year  inhis  memory  festivals on the occasion of (a) the  "  Janma-tithi  " (the anniversary of the installation of the  marbleimage); (b) " Gurupurnima " (full moon in the Bengali  monthof Ashar) ; and (c) " Tirodhan " (anniversary of the day  onwhich  Sri Balanand Brahmachari gave up his body) at a	costnot exceeding Rs. 4,500 per annum ; and (4) to establish  orcause to be established and run and606manage	in Deoghar a hospital for Hindu females only  to  becalled Akshaya Kumar Female Hospital and an attached outdoorcharitable  dispensary for all out-patients of any  religionor  creed  whatsoever  and pay out of  the  income  for	 thehospital  and  the outdoor dispensary an annual sum  of	 Rs.12,000	or  such  other	 sum  as  might	 be  available	 andsufficient after meeting the charges and expenditure of	 thetwo temples and after paying the allowance of the "  shebait" and trustees and members of the temple committee.  It	 wasfurther	 stated	 that the work of the establishment  of	 the'hospital and the out-door charitable dispensary should	 notbe  taken in hand until the construction of the temples	 andthe installation of the deities mentioned above.It  may be here stated that it is the case of  both  partiesbefore	us  that the temples and the Nat  Mandir  have	beenconstructed  and  the deity and the marble  image  installedtherein;  but  neither	the  hospital  nor  the	  charitabledispensary has yet been constructed.  The powers,  functionsand  duties of the trustees were also mentioned in the	deedand,  in schedule A, detailed rules were laid down  for	 theholding	 of annual general meetings, special  meetings,	 andordinary  meetings  of the trustees.  To  these	 details  weshall advert later.On  October 27, 1952, the Superintendent, Bihar State  Boardof  Religious  Trusts,	Patna,	sent  a	 notice	 to  SrimatiCharusila Dasi under s. 59 of the Act asking her to  furnisha  return  in  respect of the trust  in	 question.   SrimatiCharusila Dasi said in reply that the trust in question	 wasa private endowment created for the worship of a family idolin  which the public were not interested and  therefore	 theAct  did  not  apply  to  it.	On  January  5,	 1953,	 theSuperintendent	 wrote	again  to  Srimati  Charusila	Dasiinforming her that the Board did not consider that the trustwas a private trust and so the Act applied to it.  There wasfurther	 correspondence	 between the  solicitor	 of  SrimatiCharusila Dasi and the President of the Bihar State Board ofReligious  Trusts.   The correspondence	 did  not,  however,carry  the matter any further and on February 5,  1953,	 thePresident of the State Board of607Religious  Trusts  said	 in  a	notice	that  he  had	beenauthorised to assess a fee under s. 70 of the Act in respectof   the  trust.   Ultimately,	on  April  6,1953,   SrimatiGharusila  Dasi made an application to the High Court  underArt. 226 of the Constitution in which she prayed that a writor  order be issued quashing the proceedings  taken  againsther by the Bihar State Board of Religious    Trusts  on	 thegrounds (a) that the trust in question was   a private trustto which the Act did not apply and (b)	that  the  Act	 wasultra  vires the Constitution by reason of the	circumstancethat its several provisions interfered with her rights as  acitizen guaranteed under Art. 19 of the Constitution.This application was contested by the State of Bihar and theBihar  State Board of Religious Trusts, though no  affidavitwas filed by either of them.  On a construction of the trustdeed the High Court came to the conclusion that the trust inquestion  was wholly of a private character created for	 theworship	 of  a	family idol in which  the  public  were	 notinterested and in that view of the matter held that the	 Actand  its provisions did not apply to it.   Accordingly,	 theHigh Court allowed the application and issued a writ in	 thenature	of  a writ of certiorari  quashing  the	 proceedingsunder ss. 59 and 70 of the Act and a writ in the nature of awrit  of  prohibition restraining the Bihar State  Board  ofReligious  Trusts  from taking further	proceedings  againstSrimati Charusila Dasi in respect of the trust in  question.The  appellants then applied for and obtained a	 certificatefrom the High Court that the case fulfilled the requirementsof  Art.  133 of the Constitution.  The present	 appeal	 hasbeen filed in pursuance of that certificate.In  connected Civil Appeals numbered 225, 226, 228, 229	 and248 of 1955 (1) judgment has been pronounced to day, and  wehave given therein a conspectus of the provisions of the Actand   have   further  dealt  with  the	 question   of	 theconstitutional	validity of those provisions in the  contextof  fundamental	 rights	 guaranteed  by	 Part  III  of	 theConstitution.	We have held therein that the provisions  ofthe Act do not take away or(1)  Mahant Moti Das v. S. P. Saki, see P. 563, ante,608abridge any of the rights conferred by that Part.  In  CivilAppeal	No. 343 of 1955 (1) in which also judgment has	beenpronounced  today, we have considered the definition  clausein  s. 2(1) of the Act and come to the conclusion  that	 theAct  does not apply to private endowments, and have  furtherexplained  therein  the essential distinction in  Hindu	 lawbetween private and public religious trusts.  We do not wishto  repeat what we have said in those two decisions; but  inthe  light  of	the  observations  made	 therein,  the	 twoquestions which fall for decision in this appeal are-(I)  ifon  a  true construction of the trust deed dated  March	 11,1938, the Charusila Trust is a private endowment created forthe  worship  of a family idol in which the public  are	 notinterested, as found by the High Court and (2) if the answerto the first question is in the negative, does the Act applyby  reason  of s. 3 thereof to trust  properties  which	 aresituate outside the State of Bihar.We now proceed to consider and decide these two questions inthe  order in which we have stated them.  On behalf  of	 theappellants it has been contended that on a true constructionof the deed of trust, the Charusila Trust must be held to bea  public religious trust.  The learned Judges of  the	HighCourt  emphasised that part of the preamble wherein  it	 wasstated	that the settler had installed a deity called  IswarSrigopal in her house and had been regularly worshiping	 thesaid  deity, which circumstance (according to  them)  showedthat  in its, origin the endowment was a  private  endowmentcreated for the worship of a family idol in which the publicwere not interested, and the learned Judges were further  ofthe  view that the installation of the said deity in one  ofthe  two  temples and of the marble image  of  Sri  BalanandBrahmachari in the other temple did not, alter the nature ofthe endowment which continued to be a expressed the  opinionthat  deed  for	 the  establishment  of	 a  females  and   acharitable  dispensary for patients of any main	 objects  ofthe  endowment.	 These findings of the	 private  endowment;they  also  the provision in the trust	hospital  for  Hindureligion  or  creed was merely incidental to the  other	 (1)Mahant Ram saroop Dasji v.  S...e. sahi, see609High  Court have been seriously and  strenuously  challengedbefore us.We  say this with respect, but we consider that the  learnedJudges	of  the High Court have failed to  give	 to  severalmaterial  clauses  of the trust deed their  due	 weight	 andthese  have an important bearing on the question  in  issue.It is true that the settler said that she had installed	 thedeity Iswar Srigopal in her house and she had been regularlyworshipping the deity since such installation; if the  trusthad  been  created only for the purpose of  continuing	suchfamily	worship, the conclusion would no doubt be  that	 theendowment  was	wholly of a private character in  which	 thepublic	had  no interest.  That was not, however,  what	 wasdone.  The settlor created the trust for the construction oftwo temples, in 'one of which was to be installed the  deityIswar  Srigopal	 and in the other the marble  image  of	 herpreceptor;  the trustees consisted of persons three of	whomwere strangers to the family, though the settlor reserved toherself	 the power to remove in her absolute discretion	 anyone  or	 more of the trustees for misconduct  by  reason  ofchange of religion, etc.  One of the relevant considerationsis if by the trust deed any right of worship has been  givento  the	 public	 or any section of the	public	answering  aparticular  description.   One of the clauses of  the  trustdeed reads :"  The	'  pronamis' and perquisites to be  offered  to	 thedeities and image in the Jugal Mandir shall form part of theSrimati	 Charusila Trust Estate and neither the shebait	 norany one else shall have interest or claim in or over same."This  clause to which the learned Judges of the	 High  Courthave  made no reference shows that the right of worship	 wasnot  confined to the family of the settlor or  founder,	 butwas  given  to other members of the Hindu public  who  couldoffer " pronamis " and perquisites to the deities, and thoseI  pronamis' and perquisites were to form part of the  trustestate.	  Schedule  E  of  the deed  gives  details  of	 thefestivals and ceremonials to be performed for the deity	 andthe  image  of Sri Balanand Brahmachari.  One of  the  cere-monials is a Jal Chhatra " (free distribution of77610water); another is annakoot " (distribution of food) at	 thetime  of Diwali, the approximate expenditure being fixed  atRs. 500.  A third ceremony is a "bhandara ", culminating  infree  distribution  of food, of the Mataji of  Sri  BalanandBrahmachari.   These are ceremonies which even if  ancillaryto "deva-sheba", appear prima facie to confer benefit on thegeneral body of worshippers.  Though not conclusive by them-selves, they have to be considered in the light of the othermain  provisions  of the trust deed.   The  other  festivalswhich have to be performed as a rule for the deity are	suchwell-known festivals as Rath Yatra, Jhulan, Janmastami, Rashand  Dol  (Holi)  in which members of  the  Hindu  communityusually	 take  part  in	 large numbers,	 and  the  scale  ofexpenses  laid	down  shows that the  festivals	 are  to  beperformed on a large scale so as to enable a large number ofpersons	 to  take  part in them.  Even with  regard  to	 thespecial	 festivals  for	 Sri  Balanand	Brahmachari  on	 theoccasion  of the Janmatithi, Gurupurnima and  Tirodhan,	 theprovisions of the trust deed contemplate that they are to beperformed  on a large scale so that other disciples  of	 SriBalananda Brahmachari may also join in them.Even  the constitution of the committee of trustees is	suchas  would  show	 that the endowment is not  a  mere  privateendowment.  The trust deed says-" In filling up a vacancy the trustees shall see that in theBoard  of Trustees there shall be, if available, one who  isthe  seniormost	 lineal	 male descendant  of  Akshaya  KumarGhose, the deceased husband of the settlor, who is  eligibleand willing and capable of acting as a trustee, another	 whois  a  trustee of the Sree Sree Balanand  Trust	 created  atDeoghar	 by the said Sree Balanandji Brahmachari Maharaj  ofsacred	memory,	 and a third who shall be disciple  of	SreeSree  Balanand	order,	that  is to  say,  any	one  of	 thedisciples of the said Sree Sree Balanand Brahmachari Maharajof sacred memory and his disciples and the disciples of	 thelatter and so on if such a disciple is willing, eligible andcapable	 of  acting as a trustee of the	 said  Trust  herebycreated,  provided always that the full number	of  trusteesshall at all times be five in number and no one611shall  be eligible to be a trustee unless he be adult  male,pious,	Bengali Hindu and provided also that the shebait  ofSree  Gopal and the shebait of Sree Baleshwari Devi  of	 theAshram	Deoghar shall under no circumstances be eligible  tobe  a trustee tinder these presents save and except  in	 thecase of the settlor who shall so long as she lives to both atrustee and a shebait."We  may here draw attention to the formation of	 the  templecommittee as envisaged by the trust deed.  It says that	 thetemple committee 'shall consist of the Jugal Mandir  shebaitfor  the time being who shall be the ex officio	 member	 andpresident of the committee and the other members who will beappointed or nominated by the trustees shall consist of	 sixpious Hindus who must be residents of Deoghar and of whom atleast four shall be Bengalis.  If the trust were created forthe  worship  of  a  family  idol,  one	 would	not   expectprovisions  of this nature which vest the management of	 thetemple	and  the  " sheba puja " in members  of	 the  publicoutside the family of the settlor.Besides the aforesaid provisions, there is in express  termsthe imposition of a trust in favour of the public so far  asthe  hospital and the charitable dispensary  are  concerned.It is necessary to quote here el. 8 of the trust deed.	Thatclause reads:" To establish or cause to be established and run and managein  Deoghar a hospital for Hindu females only to  be  calledin-  memory of the husband of the settlor,  since  deceased,the  " Akshaya Kumar Female Hospital " and an attached	out-door  Charitable  Dispensary  for all  out-patients  of	 anyreligion  or creed whatsoever and out of the said income  topay  and/or spend for the objects of the said  Hospital	 andout-door Dispensary annually a sum of rupees twelve thousandor  such  sum  as will be  available  and  sufficient  aftermeeting	 the  aforesaid charges and  expenditure  and  afterpaying the allowance of the shebait and trustees and membersof  the	 temple committee and the establishment	 charges  ofoffices	  at  Calcutta	and  Deoghar  and  of	the   templeestablishment  hereinafter mentioned provided  however	thatthe work of the establishment612of the Hospital and out-door Charitable Dispensary shall notbe  taken in hand by the trustees until the construction  ofthe  temple  and installation of  the  deities	hereinbeforementioned."The  trust deed further states that the female hospital	 andcharitable  dispensary	shall,	so long as  the	 settlor  isalive,	be  located in a house to be rented in	Deoghar	 andafter  her  death shall be shifted to and located  in  CharuNiwas.	 Charu Niwas was, however, sold by an order  of	 theCalcutta  High	Court and the sale proceeds, it	 is  stated,were appropriated towards the satisfaction of the debts	 andliabilities  of the trust estate.  One clause of  the  trustdeed relating to the hospital and the charitable  dispensarysays:" The object of the said Hospital shall be to provide  Hindufemales	 with gratuitous medical and surgical and  maternityadvice and aid and also to admit them as indoor patients  inconformity with such rules and regulation as may be made  byor with the sanction of the Board of Trustees.	The  outdoorCharitable  Hospital  shall  be run as	the  trustees  shallprovide by rules. In furtherance of these objects, its fundsmay  be	 expended  in  subscriptions  or  contributions	  toconvalescent  and  other similar institutions and  to  otherspecial hospitals and in sending patients to and maintainingthem in such institution and hospitals provided that the sumso  expended  in any one year shall not	 exceed	 rupees	 onethousand  or such sum as may be fixed by the  trustees	fromtime to time."The learned Judges of the High Court have expressed the viewthat  these provisions for the establishment of	 a  hospitaland charitable dispensary are merely incidental or ancillaryto the other main objects of the trust.	 With great respect,we  are	 unable	 to appreciate how the	establishment  of  ahospital  and charitable dispensary of the nature  indicatedin the trust deed can be said to be ancillary or  incidentalto other objects of the trust, viz., the construction of twotemples	 and  the installation of the deities  therein.	  Inclear  and  unequivocal	 terms	the  trust  deed  imposes  adistinct  and independent trust in favour of a	considerablesection of the public for whose benefit the hospital613and the charitable dispensary are to be established.  It  istrue  that  the	 establishment	of  the	 hospital  and	 thecharitable  dispensary	is  to be taken in  hand  after	 theconstruction  of  the temples and the  installation  of	 thedeities; that circumstance, however, does not make the trustin relation to the hospital and the dispensary any the	lessimportant  or  even merely incidental or  ancillary  to	 theother  trusts.	 It merely determines the priority  of	timewhen  the  different trusts created by the deed	 are  to  begiven effect to.  The High Court has placed reliance on	 thedecision in Prasaddas Pal v. Jagannath Pal (1).	 That was  acase  in  which	 by the deed  of  endowment  were  dedicatedcertain houses and premises to the " sheba of a family	idolestablished  in one of the said houses and for	feeding	 thepoor  and carrying out other charitable objects;  the  deitywas installed inside one of the residential quarters, the  "shebaitship  " was confined to the members of the family  ofthe founder, and the feeding of the poor and of students, incase  the  income of the debutter  property  increased,	 wasfound  to  be part and parcel of the "debasheba	 ",  and  inthose circumstances it was held that the feeding of the pooretc.  was not an independent charity but incidental  to	 themain  purpose  of the endowment, viz., the " puja "  of	 thedeity.	 We are unable to hold that the same  considerationsapply to the trust before us.In  Deoki Nandan v. Murlidhar (2) this Court considered	 theprinciples  of	law  applicable to a  determination  of	 thequestion  whether  an endowment is public  or  private,	 andobserved:"  The	cardinal point to be decided is whether it  was	 theintention  of the founder that specified individuals are  tohave  the  right of worship at the shrine,  or	the  generalpublic or any specified portion thereof.  In accordance withthis  theory,  it  has	been  held  that  when	property  isdedicated  for the worship of a familyidol, it is a  privateand not a public endowment, as the persons who are  entitledto  worship  at	 the shrine of the deity  can  only  be	 themembers	 of the family, and that is an ascertained group  ofindividuals.  But(1) (1932) I.L.R. 6o Cal.538.(2) [1956] S.C.R. 756, 762.614where  the  beneficiaries are not members of a family  or  aspecified  individual,	then  the  endowment  can  only	  beregarded as public, intended to benefit the general body  ofworshippers."One  of	 the facts which was held in that case	to  indicatethat  the  endowment  was  public  was	that  the  idol	 wasinstalled  not within the precincts of residential  quartersbut in a separate building constructed for that very purposeon a vacant site.  We do not suggest that such a fact is  byitself	decisive of the question.  The fact that the  templeis  outside  the dwelling house is only	 a  circumstance  infavour of it being regarded a public temple, particularly inMadras (except Malabar); there are, however, private templesin Bengal which are built outside the residential houses  ofdonors (see the Hindu Law of Religious and Charitable Trust,Tagore	Law Lectures by the late Dr. B. K.  Mukherjea,	1952edition,  p. 188).  In the case before us, the	two  templeswere constructed outside the residential quarters, but	thatis only one of the relevant circumstances.  We must construethe  deed of trust with reference to all its clauses and  soconstrued,  we	have  no  doubt	 that  the  trusts   imposedconstitute a public endowment.	There is one other point  tobe  noticed  in this connexion.	 The deed of  trust  in	 thepresept	 case  is in the English form and  the	settlor	 hastransferred the properties to trustees who are to hold	themfor certain specific purposes of religion and charity;	thatin  our	 opinion  is  not decisive  but	 is  nevertheless  asignificant  departure	from the mode  a  private  religiousendowment is commonly made.It  is necessary now to refer to a decision of the  CalcuttaHigh  Court, In re Charusila Dasi (1) relating to this	verytrust.	The question for consideration in that case was	 theassessment of income-tax on the income of this trust  estatefor  the accounting year 193839. The trustees were  assessedupon the whole income of the trust.  'The trustees  appealedagainst	 the assessment and contended that the entire  trustwas  for public, religious and charitable purposes  and	 thewhole income(1)  I.L.R. [1946] 1 Cal. 473.615fell  within cl. (1) of sub-s. 3 of s. 4 of  the  Income-taxAct.   The contention of the Commissioner of Income-tax	 wasthat  the trust was no more than a private  religious  trustand  the income did not enure for the public  benefit,	savewith  respect  to that part of the income which	 was  to  bedevoted	 to  the hospital and dispensary and  to  which	 thelatter part of cl. (1) applied.	 A reference was accordinglymade  to the High Court and the question framed was  whetheron  a proper construction of the deed of trust, so  much  ofthe  income of the trust as was not applied for the  purposeof  constructing  and maintaining the  female  hospital	 wasexempt	from  tax  under the provisions of s.  4(3)  of	 theIndian	Income-tax Act.	 It was pointed out before the	HighCourt  that  no part of the income of the trust	 during	 theaccounting  year was devoted to the hospital and  dispensaryand  it was conceded that part of the income which would  bedevoted	  to  those  institutions  would  fall	within	 theexempting  clause.  It so happens that the  learned  counselwho  argued  the  case	on behalf of  the  trustees  in	 theCalcutta High Court in the income-tax reference is the	samecounsel	 who  has  argued the case before us  on  behalf  ofSrimati	 Charusila  Dasi.  The contention now  is  that	 thetrust in its entirety is a private religious trust.   Elevencircumstances  were  referred to by learned counsel  in	 theincome-tax  reference in support of his contention that	 theentire	trust  as ascertained from the trust deed was  of  apublic	nature.	 Gentle, J., with whom Ormond,	J.,  agreed,held that on a proper construction of the deed of trust,  somuch  of the income of the trust as was not applied for	 thepurpose	 of constructing an maintaining the female  hospitalwas  not exempt from tax under the provisions of s. 4(3)  ofthe Indian Income-tax Act.  This decision, it must be statedat once, does not wholly support the present respondent.  Sofar  as	 the hospital and the dispensary are  concerned	 thetrust  was  held to be a public trust.	We are of  the	viewthat having regard to the main clauses of the trust deed  towhich we have already made a reference, the trusts in favourof  the deity Iswar Srigopal and the image of  Sri  BalanandBrahmachari are also of a public nature.816One  of the points which was emphasised before the  CalcuttaHigh  Court was the provision with regard to pronamis "	 andperquisites  to be offered to the deity and the image.	 TheHigh Court said:"  This provision does not indicate the creation of a  trustin favour of the public, but, on the contrary, it denies theright  of  any	one, which must include any  member  of	 thepublic.	 having a right to the pronamis.  In its terms,	 thedeed negatives that benefit is conferred upon the public ".The aforesaid observations appear to us, with respect, to bebased on a misconception.  When a member of the public makesan offering to a deity, he does not retain any right to whathe has offered.	 What he offers belongs to the deity.	Whenwe  talk  of  the  right  of members  of  the  public  or  aconsiderable  section  thereof,	 we refer to  the  right  ofworship	 or  the right to make offerings in worship  of	 thedeity and not of the right to the offerings after they	havebeen made.  With regard to  other clauses of the trust	deedalso  we  take	a view different from that  of	the  learnedJudges	'who  decided  the income-tax  reference.   We	havealready	 explained our view in the preceding paragraphs	 andit is unnecessary to reiterate it.  The conclusions at whichwe  have arrived on a construction of the deed of  trust  isthat it creates a religious and charitable trust of a publicnature.Now,  we  proceed to a consideration of	 the  second  point.Section 3 of the Act says-"  This	 Act shall apply to all	 religious  trusts,  whethercreated	 before or after the commencement of this  Act,	 anypart  of the property of which is situated in the  State  ofBihar ".The argument before us on behalf of the respondent is  this.Under Art. 245 of the Constitution, Parliament may make lawsfor the whole or any part of the territory of India and	 thelegislature  of a State may make laws for the whole  or	 anypart  of the State.  Clause (2) of the said Article  furtherstates that no law made by Parliament shall be deemed to  beinvalid	 on the ground that it would have  extra-territorialoperation.    Article	246  gives   the   distribution	  oflegislative power;617Parliament has exclusive power to make laws with respect  toany  of the matters enumerated in what has been	 called	 theUnion  List; Parliament as also the legislature of  a  Statehave  power to make laws with respect to any of the  mattersenumerated  in	the Concurrent List; the  legislature  of  aState has exclusive power to make laws for such State or anypart  thereof with respect to any of the matters  enumeratedin  the	 State List.  Item 28 of the  Concurrent  List	is,,charities   and	 charitable  institutions,  charitable	 andreligious  endowments and religious institutions ".  Learnedcounsel	 for the respondent contends that by reason  of	 theprovisions  in	Arts. 245 and 246 of the  Constitution	readwith  item 28 of the Concurrent List, the Bihar	 legislaturewhich  passed the Act had no power to make a law  which	 hasoperation  outside the State of Bihar; he  further  contendsthat under s. 3 the Act is made applicable to all  religioustrusts, whether created before or after the commencement  ofthe  Act, any part of the property of which is	situated  inthe  State  of	Bihar; therefore, the Act will	apply  to  areligious  institution which is outside Bihar even though  asmall  part  of its property may lie in that State.   It  iscontended that such a provision is ultra vires the power  ofthe  Bihar Legislature, and Parliament alone can make a	 lawwhich will apply to religious institutions having propertiesin  different States.  Alternatively, it is  contended	thateven if the Act applies to a religious institution in  Bihara  small  part	of the property of which is  in	 Bihar,	 theprovisions  of	the  Act can have  no  application  to	suchproperty of the institution as is outside Bihar, such as theCalcutta properties in the present case.It  is	necessary  first  to determine	the  extent  of	 theapplication of the Act with reference to ss. 1 (2) and 3  ofthe Act read with the preamble.	 The preamble states:-"  Whereas  it	is  expedient  to  provide  for	 the  betteradministration	of  Hindu religious trusts in the  State  ofBihar and for the protection and preservation of  propertiesappertaining to such trusts78618It  is clear from the preamble that the Act is	intended  toprovide	 for  the better administration of  Hindu  religioustrusts in the State of Bihar.  Section 1 (2) states that theAct extends to the whole of the State of Bihar, and s. 3  wehave  quoted earlier.  If these two provisions are  read  inthe context of the preamble, they can only mean that the Actapplies	 in  cases  in	which (a)  the	religious  trust  orinstitution is in Bihar and (b) any part of the property  ofwhich  institution  is situated in the State of	 Bihar.	  Inother words, the aforesaid two conditions must be  fulfilledfor the application of the Act.	 It is now well settled thatthere is a general presumption that the legislature does notintend	to  exceed  its	 jurisdiction, and  it	is  a  soundprinciple  of  construction  that the  Act  of	a  sovereignlegislature   should,	if   possible,	 receive   such	  aninterpretation	as  will  make	it  operative  and  not	 in-operative; see the cases referred to In re the Hindu Women'sRight to Property Act, 1937 and The Hindu Women's Rights  toProperty (Amendment) Act, 1936 and In re a Special Referenceunder  s. 213 of The Government of India Act, 1935 (1),	 andthe  decision of this Court in R. M. D.	 Chamarbaugwalla  v.The Union of India (2).	 We accordingly hold that s. 3 makesthe  Act applicable to all public religious trusts, that  isto  say,  all public religious and  charitable	institutionswithin	the meaning of the definition clause in s. 2 (1)  ofthe  Act,  which are situate in the State of Bihar  and	 anypart  of the property of which is in that State.   In  otherwords, both conditions must be fulfilled before the Act	 canapply.	 If this be the true meaning of s. 3 of the Act,  wedo  not	 think that any of the provisions of  the  Act	haveextra-territorial  application or are beyond the  competenceand power of the Bihar Legislature.  Undoubtedly, the  BiharLegislature has power to legislate in respect of, to use thephraseology of item 28 of the Concurrent List, "  charities,charitable institutions, charitable and religious endowmentsand religious institutions " situate in the State of  Bihar.The question, therefore, narrows down to,this:	  in so legislating,, has it power to affect trust(1) [1941] F.C.R. 12, 27-30.(2) [1957] S.C.R. 93o.619property which may be outside Bihar but which appertains  tothe  trust situate in Bihar ? In our opinion, the answer  tothe  question  must  be in the affirmative.   It  is  to  beremembered  that with regard, to an interest under  a  trustthe  beneficiaries'  only right is to have  the	 trust	dulyadministered  according	 to  its terms and  this  right	 cannormally  be enforced only at the place where the  trust  orreligious  institution is situate or at the trustees'  placeof residence: see Dicey's Conflict of Laws, 7th edition,  p.506.   The  Act purports to do nothing more.  Its  aim.,  asrecited	 in  the  preamble, is to  provide  for	 the  betteradministration	of  Hindu religious trusts in the  State  ofBihar  and  for the protection	of  properties	appertainingthereto.   This aim is sought to be achieved  by  exercisingcontrol	 over  the trustees in personam.   The	trust  beingsituate in Bihar the State has legislative power over it andalso over its trustees or their servants and agents who mustbe  in Bihar to administer, the trust.	Therefore, there  isreally	no  question  of  the  Act  having  extraterrestrialoperation.   In any case, the circumstance that the  templeswhere  the deities are installed are situate in Bihar,	thatthe hospital and charitable dispensary are to be establishedin Bihar for the benefit of the Hindu public in Bihar  givesenough	territorial connection to enable the legislature  ofBihar  to  make a law with respect to such  a  trust.	ThisCourt has applied the doctrine of territorial connection  ornexus  to income-tax legislation, sales tax legislation	 andalso  to  legislation imposing a tax on gambling.   In	TataIron  &	 Steel Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar  (1)	the  earliercases were reviewed and it was pointed out that	 sufficiencyof  the territorial connection involved a  consideration  oftwo  elements, namely, (a) the connection must be  real	 andnot illusory and (b) the liability sought to be imposed mustbe pertinent to that connection.  It cannot be disputed thatif  the religious endowment is itself situate& in Bihar	 andthe  trustees  function there, the  connection	between	 thereligious institution and the property appertaining  theretois real and not illusory ; indeed, the religious institution(I)  [1958] S.C.R. 1355.620and  the property appertaining thereto form  one  integratedwhole  and  one cannot be dissociated from the	other.	 If,therefore,  any liability is imposed on the  trustees,	suchliability must affect the trust property It is true that  inthe Tata Iron & Steel Co.'s case this Court observed :"  It is not necessary for us on this occasion to  lay	downany broad proposition as to whether the theory of nexus,  asa  principle  of legislation is applicable to all  kinds  oflegislation.   It will be enough for disposing of the  pointnow under consideration, to say that this Court has found noapparent  reason  to confine its application  to  income-taxlegislation  but has extended it to sales tax and to tax  ongambling."We  do	not  see any reason why the  principles	 which	werefollowed  in The State of Bombay v. R. M. D.  Chamarbaugwala(2) should not be followed in the present case.	 In R. M. D.Chamarbaugwala's  case (2) it was found that the  respondentwho was the organiser of a prize competition was outside theState	of  Bombay;  the  paper	 through  which	 the   prizecompetition was conducted was printed and published  outsidethe  State of Bombay, but it had a wide circulation  in	 theState  of Bombay and it was found that " all the  activitieswhich the gambler is ordinarily expected to undertake"	tookplace  mostly,	if  not entirely, in the  State	 of  Bombay.These  circumstances, it was held, constituted a  sufficientterritorial  nexus  which entitled the State  of  Bombay  toimpose	a  tax on the gambling that took  place	 within	 itsboundaries  and	 the  law could not be struck  down  on	 theground of extra-territoriality.	 We are of the opinion	thatthe  same  principles  apply in the  present  case  and	 thereligious  endowment itself being in Bihar and the  trusteesfunctioning there, the Act applies and the provisions of theAct   cannot  be  struck  down	on  the	 ground	 of   extra-territoriality.We  proceed now to consider some of the decisions  on  whichlearned	 counsel  for the respondent  has  placed  reliance.These are (1) Sirdar Gurdyal Singh v. The Rajah of Faridkote(3) ; (2) Commissioner of Wakfs, Bengal(1) [1958] S.C.R. 1355.		  (2)[1957] S.C.R. 874.(3) (1894) 21 I.A. 17r, 185.621V.   Narasingh Chandra Daw and Co. (1); (3) Madangopal Baglav. Lachmidas (2); and (4) Maharaj Kishore Khanna v. Raja RamSingh  (3  ). Those decisions, in our opinion,	are  not  inpoint, as they related to different problems altogether.  InSirdar Gurdyal Singh's case (4) a Faridkote court passed  anex  parte  money decree against a defendant who had  been  atreasurer  of  Faridkode, but who at the time  of  suit	 hadceased	to be such and was resident in Jhind of which  Statehe was a domiciled subject; it was held that the decree	 wasa  nullity by international law.  The ratio of the  decisionwas thus expressed by Lord Selborne:"Territorial jurisdiction attaches (with special exceptions)upon all persons either permanently or temporarily  residentwithin	the territory while they are within it; but it	doesnot follow them after they have withdrawn from it, and	whenthey are living in another independent country........... Ina  personal  action,  to  which	 none  of  these  causes  ofjurisdiction  apply,  a decree pronounced in absentem  by  aforeign	 Court, to the jurisdiction of which  the  defendanthas  not in any way submitted himself, is  by  internationallaw an absolute nullity."The  decision in Commissioner of Wakfs, Bengal v.  NarasinghChandra	 Daw & Co. (1) proceeded on a construction of s.  70of  the Bengal Wakf Act which also had a section similar  tos. 3 of the Act.  Section 70 of the Bengal Wakf Act requirednotice to the Commissioner of Wakfs before any wakf propertycould be sold and the question was whether a court in  Assamwas under any obligation to send such a notice.	 It was heldthat  the Bengal Act did not apply to Assam and s. 70  stoodin  a  different  category from the other  sections  of	 theBengal Act.  The ratio of the decision was thus explained :-" So far as the status of the Commissioner is concerned,  itis  conferred by the Bengal Act to operate even outside	 theprovince.  Therefore, the Commissioner may bring suits unders.  72	or  s. 73 of the Bengal Act in	courts	outside	 theprovince.  But s. 70 lies(1)  I.L.R. [1939] 1 Cal. 462.(3)  A.I.R. 1954 Pat. 164.(2)  I.L.R. [1948] 2 Cal. 455.(4)  (1894) 21 I.A. 171, 185.622in a different category, because it imposes an obligation onthe  court  to issue notice to the Commissioner	 in  certaincircumstances........  Section	70(1) refers to	 a  suit  orproceeding  in	respect of any wakf property, etc.,  and  ifthis wakf property is situated outside the province, so thatthe  court having jurisdiction over it is also	outside	 theprovince,  then	 the Act cannot operate beyond	its  extent,that is to say outside the province of Bengal."The  decision  in  Madangopal Bagla  v.	 Lachmidas  and	 thedecision  in Maharaj Kishore Khanna v. Raja Ram	 Singh	(1)-both related to the interpretation of some of the provisionsof  the United Provinces Encumbered Estates Act (U.  P.	 Act25  of 1934).  In the former case the limited  question	 fordecision  was  if  the decreeholder under a  decree  of	 theOriginal side of the Calcutta High Court was precluded	fromexecuting the decree by reason of certain proceedings  whichhad taken place before the Special Judge, Banaras, under theUnited	Provinces Encumbered Estates Act, 1934.	 The  answergiven was that the decreeholder was not so precluded and thedecision proceeded on a construction of s. 18 of the  UnitedProvinces Encumbered Estates Act, 1934, read with ss. 7,  13and  14(7)  of	that Act.  It was held	that  the  exclusivejurisdiction  intended to be conferred on the Special  Judgein  supersession  of  those  of	 civil	and  revenue  courtsextended,, as indicated by s. 7, only over debts enforceablethrough	 the  courts  within the province  and	the  word  "creditor  "  in s. 10 must be limited to those of  them	 whowould  have  to	 enforce their rights  through	such  courtsalone.	 In the Patna case the question for decision was  ifs.  14(7) of the U. P. Encumbered Estates Act, 1934,  shouldbe  construed to mean that the decree of a Special Judge  isto be deemed to be the decree of a civil court of  competentjurisdiction even beyond the territorial jurisdiction of theState  Legislature.  It was held that the decree  passed  bythe Special Judge of Banaras had not the effect of a  decreeof  a  civil  court outside the territorial  limits  of	 theUnited Provinces and the Sub-(1) I.L.R. (1948) 2 Cal. 455.(2) A.I.R. 1954 Pat. 164.623ordinate  Judge	 of Purnea in Bihar had no  jurisdiction  toexecute such a decree or to direct that the properties of  ajudgment-debtor in Purnea should be attach, ed in  executionof  the	 decree.  As we have said earlier,  these  decisionsrelate	to  an	altogether different  problem,	namely,	 theproper	construction of certain sections of the Bengal	WakfAct or of the United Provinces Encumbered Estates Act.	 Theproblem	 before	 us  is of a more  general  nature  and	 theaforesaid  decisions are no authorities for the solution  ofthat problem.There is a decision of this Court to which our attention hasbeen  drawn (Petition No. 234 of 1953 decided on  March	 18,1953).	A similar problem arose in that case where the	headof a math situate in Banaras made an application under	Art.32 of the Constitution for a writ in the nature of  mandamusagainst the State of Bombay and the Charity Commissioner  ofthat State directing them to forbear from enforcing  againstthe  petitioner the provisions of the Bombay  Public  TrustsAct,  1950,  on the ground inter alia that  the	 Bombay	 Actcould have no application to the math situate in Banaras  orto any of the properties or places of worship appurtenant tothat math.  In the course of the hearing of the petition thelearned Attorney-General who appeared for the State of	Bom-bay made it clear that there was no intention on the part ofthe  Government	 of Bombay or the  Charity  Commissioner  toapply  the  provisions	of the Bombay Act  to  any  math  orreligious institution situated outside the State  territory.The  learned Attorney-General submitted that the Bombay	 Actcould  be  made	 applicable,  if at all,  to  any  place  ofreligious instruction or worship which is appurtenant to themath and is actually within the State territory.  In view ofthese submissions no decision was given on the point  urged.The case cannot, therefore, be taken as a final decision  ofthe question in issue before us.For the reasons which we have already given the Act  appliesto the Charusila Trust which is in Bihar and its  provisionscannot be struck down on the ground of extra-territoriality.624The  result is that the appeal succeeds and is allowed	withcosts,	the  judgment  and order of  the  High	Court  datedOctober	 5, 1953, are set aside and the petition of  SrimatiCharusila Dasi must stand dismissed with costs.Appeal allowed.