PETITIONER:NANDURI YOGANANDALAKSHMINARASIMACHARI AND ORS.	Vs.RESPONDENT:SRI AGASTHESWARASWAMI VARU OFKOLAKALURDATE OF JUDGMENT:15/01/1960BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.GUPTA, K.C. DASCITATION: 1960 AIR  622		  1960 SCR  (2) 768 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1978 SC1329	 (28)ACT:Grant-Inam-Intention-Specified	charitable payments  exhaus-ting  income at date of grant-lntention is to  denote  wholeincome	to charity-Plaint-Prayer Portion-If and when can  beallowed to be amended-Documents-The interpretation Possible-Supreme Court not to intervene with view taken by the courtsbelow.HEADNOTE:The  sole trustee of a deity in a suit prayed for  a  decreefor  the  recovery of the arrears of income  of	 a  propertyalleging   that	 the  property	in  dispute  constituted   aspecified  endowment for Kalyanotsavam of the deity and	 theappellants  who	 were  trustees of  the	 said  property	 hadcommitted default in carrying out the purpose of the  trust;but there was no formal Prayer for the declaration that	 thesaid  properties  and  income  thereof	formed	a   specificendowment  for the said due performance of the	services  ofKalyanotsovam  of the deity and feeding charges,  and  otherexpenses.   The defence raised was that lnam was a  personalgrant burdened with service of the deity and that it was nota  specific  trust or an endowment for the  benefit  of	 theidol.	The  High Court after allowing	the  respondents  toamend  the plaint by adding a formal prayer for	 declarationstating	 that  the properties and income  thereof  formed  aspecific  endowment for the due performance of the  servicesof  Kalyanotsavam  of  the  deity  held	 in  favour  of	 therespondents  and further, observed that the appellants	wereliable to pay the entire income to the deity.  On appeal  tothe Supreme Court it was contended for the appellants  interalia (1) that the grant was a personal grant, burdened	withthe  provision for service and it was not a specific  grant.(2) that High Court should not have allowed the amendment ofthe plaint.Held,  that  in the instant case the grant, was	 a  specificendowment  for	Kalyanotsavam of the deity and	therefore  aspecific  trust and not a grant to the appellants  with	 theadded obligation of spending on the service.In  considering the question of the nature of a	 grant,	 theinam  registers have always been treated as evidence of	 theutmost	importance  particularly where Sanad  &	 Inam  titledeeds are not produced, and when two inferences are possiblefrom  the  reading of documents there is no reason  why	 theSupreme	 Court	will interfere with the view taken  by	the.courts below.When at the time of a grant the specific charitable paymentsexhaust	 the-income of the property, it is a fair  inferenceto draw     769therefrom that the intention was to devote the whole  incometo   charity and any subsequent increase in the value of theproperty  accrues  to  the charity and the courts  would  beright to apply the  doctrine of Cy-pres.Held,  further,	 that where necessary allegations  had	beenmade  in a plaint and the requisite pleas raised and  issuesframed	  on  the  question  and  the  parties	were   fullycognizant  on  the  points  in	controversy  and   necessaryevidence led by them, the courts   would    be	 right	  inallowing  the amendment by the addition of a prayer  in	 theprayer	clause,	 which was in the nature  of  formal  reliefwhich flowed from the allegation in the plaint.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 147 of 1956.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated August 7, 1952, ofthe Madras High Court in A. S. No. 809 of 1947, arising	 outof  the judgment and decree dated October 31, 1947,  of	 theSub Judge, Tenali in 0. S. No. 64 of 1944.K.   R.	 Chaudri, T. S. Venkataraman and K. B.	Sharma,	 forthe appellants.N.   Subramanyam and T. Satyanarayana for the respondent.1960.  January 15.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyKAPUR  J.-This is an appeal against the judgment and  decreeof the High Court of Madras varying the decree of the  trialcourt.	 The  appellants were the defendants  in  the  trialcourt  and  the,  respondent  was  the	plaintiff  who	 wasrepresented  by	 the  sole trustee appointed  by  the  HinduReligious Endowment Board.The  suit was brought by the deity through the sole  trusteefor  recovery of Rs. 3,480 towards the arrears of income  ofthe  property  in  trust for the years	1942-44	 and  for  adirection  for	future payment at the rate of  160  bags  ofpaddy  per  year  or its equivalent  i.e.  Rs.	1,680.	 Theplaintiff alleged that the property in dispute constituted aspecific  endowment for Kalyanotsavam of the deity and	thatthe  defendants who were trustees had committed	 default  incarrying out the purpose of the trust.	The prayer was for adecree for the recovery of expenses of Kalyanotsavam and  ofthe feeding charges.  The defence raised was98770that  the inam was a personal grant for driving the  car  ofthe  deity  on	the  festival days and that  it	 was  not  aspecific trust or an endowment for the benefit of the  idol.In  other  words it was a grant of the	inam  burdened	withservice to the god.  There were other pleas raised in regardto jurisdiction, res judicata and  adverse possession.	 Thetrial court held that the     grant,	was    a    specificendowment  for	the  Kalyanotsavam  of	the  deity  but	 theappellants were not bound to  spend the whole income of	 thelands for the purpose.	It decreed a sum of Rs. 200 per yearas adequate provision for the performance of the service  ofKalyanotsavam.	The other pleas raised were decided  againstthe appellants.In  the High Court the only point argued was  regarding	 thenature	of the grant and as in the opinion of that  court  ageneral	 trustee could not call upon a specific	 trustee  topay any money 'except on the ground of expending that amountand  there  was no proof of this expenditure the  prayer  ascontained  in the plaint was not granted and the High  Courtwas  also  of  the opinion that as all the  facts  had	beenpleaded	 and there were no new facts to be alleged  and	 theparties were alive to the real nature of the dispute and hadeven the issues framed on that very question, it allowed theplaint	to  be amended by the addition of the prayer  for  adeclaration  that  the properties in the  schedule  and	 theincome	thereof	 formed	 a specific endowment  for  the	 dueperformance  of the services of Kalyanotsavam of  the  deityand  feeding charges and other expenses	 incidental  theretoand  the appellants were therefore liable to pay the  entireincome.	  It was also of the opinion that all the  availableevidence  had been adduced by both the parties and that	 theprayer for declaration was only a formal relief which flowedfrom  the allegations in the plaint.  It neither involved  achange	of  the cause of action nor did it require  a  freshtrail  and therefore the petition for amendment was  allowedby the addition of the prayer stated above.In  this appeal counsel for the appellant has  raised  hreetpoints: (1) that the suit wag not maintainable;771(2)that	 the amendment should not have been allowed and	 (3)the  grant was a personal grant to the	appellants  burdenedwith  the  provision for service and it was not	 a  specificendowment.  As far as the first question is concerned it hasnot  been  shown as to how  the suit  was  not maintainable.The  question  of  amendment, in our  opinion,	was  rightlydecided	 by the High Court.  As held by that court  all	 thenecessary  allegations had been made in the plaint  and	 therequisite pleas had been raised by the appellants; an  issuewas  framed  on	 the question and  the	parties	 were  fullycognizant  of  the points in controversy and  the  necessaryevidence was led by the parties.  In this view of the matterthe  High Court was right in allowing the amendment  by	 theaddition of a prayer in the prayer clause.We then come to the question of the nature of grant which ona  consideration  of  the  documentary	evidence  and  otherevidence  has  been found by both the courts below to  be  aspecific  endowment  for Kalyanotsavam.	  This	finding	 waschallenged  by	the  appellant.	  For  that  purpose  it  isnecessary  to consider the inam papers which form  the	mainand  basic  documentary	 evidence by  the  appellant.	Inamregisters have always been treated as evidence of the utmostimportance.   The first document to be considered is of	 theyear  1859-60 which is a copy of the inam statement made  byN. Buchayya, the ancestor of the present appellants.  Column1  of this document shows the names of the inamdars and	 theenjoyers  to  be  " N. Buchayya	 the  present  enjoyment  istowards	 the  Kalyanotsavam " of the deity.  Columns 4	&  5give  the residence and name of the original  inamdars.	  InColumn 5 are given the particulars of the family of the thenenjoyers and the entry is for the deity's Kalyanotsavam.  InColumn 6 is given the name of the grantor who gave the	landto  the grantee and " with the income therefrom he has	beenperforming Sri Swami Varu's Kalyanotsavam from that time  ".Columns	 7-9  give  the extent of the land.   In  Column  11particulars  relating  to the present enjoyment	 are  to  begiven and the entry was Sri Swami Varu's772Kalyanotsavam.	In Column 12 it was shown that the     grantwas  revenue-free and the land was under the cultivation  ofBuchayya  the income of which was  Rs.	11 per	annum.	 Theentries	 show  that  the inam	was  granted  as  a specificendowment for the Kalyanotsavam of the deity and the  amountwas spent in the  services of the deity.The  next document to be considered is a copy of  the  inam-fair register of May 16, 1860.	The High Court finding	thatsome of the entries in that document were not clear sent forthe  original register -from the Collector's office  and  itwas found that some of the entries were not in the  originalat all.	 In Column 8 the words 'driving the car' were not tobe  found  and the remarks in Column 12 to the	effect	that'the  purpose for which the inam was granted is not  stated'were  not  in the original register.  In Column	 2  of	thisdocument  the  general class to which the inam	belonged  isshown  as  religious  endowment.  Column 8  relates  to	 thedescription of the inam and the entry is 'For service in thepagoda	The service is performed'.  Columns 9-11  relate  totenure.	 Column 12 has already been discussed.	In Column  9it  is shown as free of tax.  In Column 13 the name  of	 theoriginal  grantee  is  shown  to  be  the  ancestor  of	 theappellants.   In  Column  15 the entry is:  'In	 fasli	1223Viresalingam  0-8-8-In fasli 1236 Nanduri Vissanna  Buchayyafor  service during -the festival of the pagoda 0-8-O'.	  InColumn 21 the entry contains the following: 'To be confirmedand continued so long as the service is performed.  In fasli1216  the  inamdar is entered as village servant but  it  isascertained and is entered in fasli 1256(?), that service isperformed from a long time in the pagoda'.  In Column 22  itis stated 'confirmed' and below that is given the number  ofthe  title  deed to be T.D. 243.  From these  documents	 andfrom the fact that neither the sanad nor the inam title deedwas  produced and taking into consideration some  admissionsof the predecessors of the appellants where it was  admittedthat  they  were dharmakartas of the Kalyanotsavam  and	 hadbeen  performing  that service the High Court  came  to	 theconclusion that the inam773lands  in dispute were endowed for Kalyanotsavam and   otherpurposes incidental thereto and constituted a specific trustand the appellants were trustees thereof.It  was urged by counsel for that appellants that the  wordsin the inam register that the grant was tocontinue     aslong as the service is performed were indicative of the factthat   the  grant  was	not  to	 the	deity  but   to themindividually with the added obligation of spending from	 outof  the income on the	particular service to  the deity.  Acombined reading of the two documents i.e. statement of	 theancestor of the appellants and the inam register shows	thatthe  grant was a specific endowment and that the lands	wereendowed	 for  the  purpose of Kalyanotsavam  and  for  otherpurposes  incidental  thereto  and  constituted	 a  specifictrust.	The courts below have found this to be the nature ofthe trust and even if two inferences were possible from	 thereading	 of these two documents there is no reason  why	 theview  taken  by the courts below should be  interfered	withparticularly  when there are admissions by the	predecessorsof  the	 appellants  which support the view  of	 the  courtsbelow.	Besides those words do not necessarily mean that thegrant  was  to the individual with the added  obligation  tospend on the performance of service.  In the present case itis  not stated in the inam fair register that the grant	 wasto  be confirmed in favour of Buchayya and continue so	longas the service was performed.  This kind of language used ininam  registers has been discussed in some decided cases  inthe  Madras  High  Court e.g.  Hindu  Religious	 Endowments,Madras v. Thadikonda Koteswara Rao(1) where this distinctionWas  prominently  brought  out between the words  "  to	 be,confirmed  so long as the service is performed" and " to  beconfirmed  to  the  party  so  long  as	 he  continues	 theperformance  of the services".	The latter was held to be  apersonal  grant	 and  the former was not so  held.   We	 aretherefore of the opinion that the finding of the High  Courtthat the grant was a specific endowment for Kalyanotsavam ofthe deity and therefore a specific trust and not a grant  tothe appellant with(1)  A.I.R. 1937 Mad. 852774the  added  obligation of spending on the  service  must  beaccepted to be correct.The   next   question	for   decision	 is   as   to	whatportion	  of  the  income  of  the  inam  lands	 is  to	  beexpended on the service to the deity.  The courts below	 arenot in accord on this point.  The trial court held that	 Rs.200 out of the income should be	   adequate for the  purposeand  the  High Court applied Cy-Pres doctrine and  held	 thewhole income to be for the deity even though it exceeded theexpenditure  for the particular service.  One of  the  factswhich emerges from the inam register is that when the  grantwas  made  the specific charitable  payments  exhausted	 theincome	of the property and it is a fair inference  to	drawtherefrom that the intention was to devote the whole  incometo  charity and any subsequent increase in the value of	 theproperty accrues to the charity; Hindu Religious  Endowmentsv. Thadikonda Kotesuwararao (1); Tudor. on Charities (5 Ed.)p. 164; Laws of England Vol. 4, para 624, p. 303.  The	HighCourt  was therefore justified in holding that the whole  ofthe income was to go to deity, thus varying the judgment  ofthe  trial  court  that only a portion of it was  to  be  soemployed.   The High Court applied Cy-pres doctrine  relyingon  N.	Sankaranarayana	 Pillayan & Ors.  v.  The  Board  ofCommissioners  for Hindu Religious Endowments,	Madras	(2).It  was there held that where the grant is to the deity	 andthe  income  is ear-marked for the services  for  which	 thespecific  endowment is created, if there is a surplus  whichcannot	be spent on these services, it would be a  case	 forthe  application  of  the  Cy-pres  doctrine.	Taking	intoconsideration that originally the inam income. was only	 Rs.11  the	 whole of which was to be and was  expended  on	 theservice	 of  deity i.e. Kalyanotsavam  and  considering	 thenature	of the grant the High Court has rightly applied	 Cy-pres doctrine.We  are	 therefore of the opinion that the judgment  of	 theHigh Court was right and we dismiss this appeal with costs.Appeal dismissed.(1)  A.I.R. 1937 Mad. 852.(2)  (1947) L.R. 74 I.A. 230.775