PETITIONER:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH	Vs.RESPONDENT:BANSRAJ(and connected appeal)DATE OF JUDGMENT:09/10/1958BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1959 AIR   79		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 153ACT:       Motor  Vehicle-Driving in contravention of terms of  Permit-       Driver,	if  liable--Motor Vehicles Act (IV  Of	1939),	ss.       42(1) and 123.HEADNOTE:The  respondents  who were drivers, not being  owners,	werefound  driving motor vehicles in contravention of the  termsof the 'permits granted under S. 42(1) of the Motor VehiclesAct.   They were prosecuted and were convicted under s.	 123Of  the Act and sentenced to pay fine.	The High Court	heldthat  under  S.	 42(1)	it  was	 the  owner  alone  who	 wasinterdicted from using or permitting the use of the  vehiclesave  in  accordance with the conditions of the	 permit	 andthat,  accordingly,  if	 the vehicle was  used	against	 theconditions  of the permit only the owner, and no  one  else,including  the driver, could be guilty of the  contraventionunder s. 123.Held,  that drivers of the motor vehicles were	also  liableunder s. 123 of the Act for driving in contravention of	 theterms  of the permits.	Section 42(1) contemplates not	onlyprohibition against the user by the owner of the vehicle  orhis  permitting its user contrary to the conditions  of	 thepermit	but  it also contemplates that	the  vehicle  itselfshall  be used only in the manner authorised by the  permit.Section 123 penalises all20154persons who drive a motor vehicle or cause or allow a  motorvehicle to be used or let out a motor vehicle to be used  incontravention of the provisions of s. 42(1).JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION Criminal Appeals Nos. 115/56& 83/57.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedSeptember  13,	1955,  of the  Allahabad  High	in  CriminalReference  No.	359 of 1952, arising out  of  the  Referencedated August 4, 1952, by the Sessions Judge, Gorakpur, undersection 438 of Criminal Procedure Code.G.   C. Mathur and C. P. Lal for the appellant (In both	 theappeals).The respondent did not appear.1958.  October 9. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byKAPUR, J.-These two appeals involve a common question of lawand may be disposed of by one judgment.In Criminal Appeal No. 115/56 the respondent Bansraj, driverof a public carrier, of which he was not an owner, was foundcarrying  23  passengers  instead of  6	 allowed  under	 theconditions  of permit No. 42-926/123 granted to	 the  owner.The vehicle was checked by a Head Constable who on  countingthe  number  of	 passengers found them to  be  23.   Bansrajrespondent  was prosecuted under s. 42 read with s.  123  ofthe  Motor Vehicles Act, (IV of 1939), as it existed at	 thedate  of  the  offence;	 (to  be  called  the  Act  in	thisjudgment).  Bansraj respondent pleaded not guilty and statedthat  only six passengers were being carried.  He was  triedsummarily by a First Class Magistrate at Gorakhpur and foundguilty	under s. 123 of the Act and sentenced to pay a	fineof   Rs.   200	and  in	 default  three	  months'   rigorousimprisonment.	He went in revision to the  Sessions  Judge,Gorakhpur,  and	 there it was contended that he was  only  adriver and therefore could not be convicted under s. 123  ofthe  Act.   The learned Judge accepted that  contention	 andbeing of the opinion that a mere driver could not be so con-victed, he recommended the case to the High Court155under  s.  438 of the Criminal Procedure Code.	 The  mattercame up as Criminal Reference No. 359/52 before Mukherji J.,who  referred it to a Division Bench and was heard by  Desaiand Upadhya JJ.	 The interpretation which the High Court puton  s.	42(1) was that under the section it  was  the  owneralone  who was interdicted from Using or permitting the	 useof  the vehicle save in accordance with the conditions of  apermit	and  therefore if the vehicle was used	against	 theconditions of the permit, no one else, including the driver,could  be guilty under s. 123 of contravention of the  termsof the permit.The reference was therefore accepted and the conviction	 andsentence  of  the respondent was set aside.  The  State	 hascome  up  in appeal pursuant to special	 leave	against	 thejudgment and order of the High Court of Allahabad.In  Criminal  Appeal  No. 83/57	 respondent  Vishwanath	 thedriver of a private station wagon W.B.C. 8744 and this ownerSunder Singh were both prosecuted for carrying 13 passengersfrom  Moghulsarai to Banaras in the station wagon which	 hadno  permit for carrying passengers on hire.  Out of these  8persons	 were travelling as passengers who had been  chargedfares.	The Magistrate acquitted Sundar Singh giving him thebenefit	 of doubt and sentenced the driver to a fine of	 Rs.500  under  s.	123  of the Act and  in	 default  to  simpleimprisonment  for  six months.	This enhanced  sentence	 wasgiven  because	he had four previous convictions  under	 theAct.   The  respondent	Vishwanath took	 an  appeal  to	 theSessions  Judge,  Banaras,  who	 set  aside  the  convictionholding that the driver of a vehicle could not be  convictedunder  s.  123 for contravention of the	 conditions  of	 thepermit.	 The State took an appeal to the High Court and thisappeal also was heard by Desai and Upadhya JJ. who dismissedthe  State's  appeal and the State has come  to	 this  Courtpursuant to special leave.The question for decision in both these appeals is the	samei.e. the liability of the driver of a motor vehicle used  incontravention  of the terms of the permit under s. 42(1)  ofthe Act and this will depend156upon  the  construction to be put on ss. 42 and 123  of	 theAct.   At the time when the Respondents in the	two  appealsare alleged to have committed the offence s. 42(1)provided:-"  No owner of a transport vehicle shall use or	 permit	 theuse  of the vehicle in any public place, save in  accordancewith the conditions of a permit granted or countersigned  bya Regional or Provincial Transport Authority authorising theuse of the vehicle in that place in the manner in which	 thevehicle is being used............... "And s. 123 of the Act provided"  Whoever  drives a motor -vehicle or causes  or  allows  amotor vehicle to be used or lets out a motor vehicle for usein  contravention of 'the provisions of sub-section  (1)  ofsection 42 shall be punishable for a first offence with finewhich may extend to five hundred rupees and for a subsequentoffence if committed within three years of the commission ofa  previous similar offence with a fine which shall  not  beless than one hundred rupees and may extend to one  thousandrupeesThe  Act  regulates the use of motor vehicles and  for	thatpurpose its various provisions provide for control on  motorvehicles and on those who own them and those who drive them.Chapter II provides for licensing of motor vehicles, ChapterII-A   for   licensing	of  conductors,	 Chapter   III	 forregistration of motor vehicles and Chapter IV for control oftransport   vehicles.	Chapter	 IX  deals  with   offences,penalties and procedure.  Section 3 in Chapter II is  headednecessity  for driving licences.  Section 22 in Chapter	 IIIis headed necessity for registration.  The marginal note  ofsection	 42 in Chapter IV is necessity for  permits.   Thereare  several provisions in the Act contained in	 Chapter  VIwhich provide for control of traffic, requiring the  driversof  motor  vehicles to observe speed limits,  to  obey	dutysignals and there are other provisions for subserving safetyin  regard to driving of motor vehicles.  The provisions  ofChapter IX show how particular the legislature is in  regardto the road safety.  With that object in view the Act  makesprovision for157a  complete  control over the owners of motor  vehicles	 andover  the  drivers  of such  vehicles  and  makes  elaborateprovisions  in regard to every aspect of motor	traffic	 andpenalises  every one who contravenes the provisions  of	 theAct including the seller of a defective motor vehicle.Section 42 is headed " necessity for permits ". The languageof  the	 section employs prohibitive or negative  words	 andtherefore  its	legislative intent is that  the	 statute  ismandatory.   The negative words convey a forbidding  of	 thedoing  of  the	act  prohibited and  from  the	use  by	 thelegislature  of the words " no owner of a transport  vehicleshall  use  or	permit	the  use  "  in	 s.  42(1)  a  totalprohibition against user of the vehicle except in accordancewith the conditions of the permit is indicated.	 Further thewords " authorizing the use of the vehicle in that place  inthe  manner  in	 which	the vehicle is	being  used  "	havereference  to  the transport vehicle itself and not  to	 theowner  that  is to say s. 42(1) does not only  prohibit	 theowner  from  using  the transport vehicle  contrary  to	 theconditions  of the permit but there is an express  provisionin  the	 section that the permit authorises the use  of	 thevehicle in the place and in the manner it is being used, andthat  it is to be used in accordance with the conditions  ofthe  permit.  Thus construed s. 42(1) contemplates not	onlyprohibition against the user by the owner of the vehicle  orhis  permitting its user in a manner contrary to the  condi-tions  of  the	permit but it  also  contemplates  that	 thevehicle itself shall be used in the manner authorised by thepermit.	 The prohibition therefore is not merely against theuse  by	 the  owner  but against the  use  contrary  to	 theconditions of the permit of the vehicle itself.Section	 123  is in the chapter dealing	 with  offences	 andpenalties.  The marginal note shows what the section intendsto  punish,  and  that	the intention  was  to	provide	 forpunishment  of	every person who drives a motor	 vehicle  incontravention of the provisions Of sub-s. (1) of s. 42.	  Wehave  said  above  that	 s. 42(1) ,requires  the  use  of  atransport vehicle in accordance158with  the  conditions  of the permit and that  it  does	 notmerely	prohibit  its  user by the  owner  contrary  to	 theconditions  of	the  permit.   Therefore  when	a  transportvehicle	 is driven by any one in contravention of the  termsof  the permit, it is in contravention of the provisions  ofs.  42(1).  Section 42(1) is not a penslising section.	 Forits  breach s. 123 provides the penalties.  The	 legislatureadvisedly  did	not use the word I owner' in s. 123  of	 theAct.   Having by s. 42(1) prohibited an owner from using  orpermitting  the use of a transport vehicle contrary  to	 theconditions  of the permit and having clearly stated  thereinthat  the permit granted by the Regional or  the  ProvincialTransport Authority authorised the use of the vehicle in themanner in which the vehicle was to be used, the	 legislatureprovided punishment for anyone who drove a motor vehicle  orcaused	or-allowed a motor vehicle to be used or lets out  amotor vehicle to be used in contravention of the  provisionsof  sub-s.  (1) of s. 42.  It is for this  reason  that	 theLegislature  used the word 'whoever' and did not  limit	 thepunishment  set	 out in s. 123 to the  owner  himself.	 TheLegislature intended that no motor vehicle should be  drivenby anyone contrary to the provisions of s. 42(1) and that ifit  was driven in contravention of those provisions  he	 wasliable to punishment.  The two sections read together do notlead  to  the conclusion that s. 123 only  makes  the  ownerliable	to  punishment.	 The words " or causes or  allows  amotor  vehicle to be used, or lets out a motor	vehicle	 foruse  in	 contravention of the provisions of  sub-s.  (1)  ofsection	 42 " may well refer to the owner.  That is to	say,this  part of s. 123 punishes an owner for contravening	 theprovisions  of s. 42(1).  The driving of the motor  vehicle,however,  is a different matter.  It could be driven by	 theowner  himself	or  by	some  one  other  than	the   owner.Therefore,   the   words   "   whoever	 drives	  a    motorvehicle............... in contravention of the provisions ofsub-s.	(1) of section 42 " would cover both the  owner	 andone  who is not the owner.  What is made punishable  is	 thedriving	 of  the  motor vehicle by anyone  contrary  to	 theprovisions of s. 42(1).	 That is to say, the motor vehicle159cannot be driven by anyone contrary to the conditions of thepermit relating to that vehicle.It  may	 here be remarked that there is a  preponderance  ofjudicial  opinion in favour of the view that a driver  of  amotor  vehicle	who  is	 not its owner	and  who  drives  incontravention of the conditions of a permit under s.  42(1),would fall within s. 123 of the Act.  Except the High  Courtof Allahabad the other High Courts are in accord in  holdingthat  such  driver  would be guilty under  s.  123.   PublicProsecutor  v.	Jevan (1); Provincial Government,  C.  P.  &Berar v.  Mohan	 Lal (2), Chandra Deo Singh v. The  State(3)Teja Singh v. The State (4) ; Kalyan Lal v. The State(3) TheState  v.  Ram Chandra(5); The State v.	 Motilal  All  thesecases have proceeded on the view that thewords	 whoeverdrives'	 are wide enough to include the case of a  non-ownerdriver	who contravenes the provisions of s. 123.   Even  inthe  High  Court  of Allahabad in an  earlier  decision	 UmaShankar v. Rex (8), Aggarwala J., was of the opinion that  adriver	driving	 in  contravention of the  conditions  of  apermit would fall within s.   123 of the Act.In  our opinion, the interpretation put in this case by	 theAllahabad  High	 Court on ss. 42 and 123 is  erroneous.	  Wewould therefore allow these appeals, set aside the orders ofacquittal  and restore those of the  Magistrates  convictingthe respondents.				Appeals allowed.(1)  A.I.R. 1941 Mad. 845.(3)  (1954) 59 C. W. N. 787.(5)  A.I.R. 1954 Raj. 250.(7)  A.I.R. 1957 Raj.63.(2)  A.I.R. 1944 Nag, 89.(4)  A.I.R. 1952 Punj. 45.(6)  A.I.R. 1955 Raj. 83.(8)  A.I.R. 1950 All. 234.160