PETITIONER:SARWARLAL AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF HYDERABADDATE OF JUDGMENT:16/03/1960BENCH:SHAH, J.C.BENCH:SHAH, J.C.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)IMAM, SYED JAFFERSARKAR, A.K.GUPTA, K.C. DASCITATION: 1960 AIR  862		  1960 SCR  (3) 311 CITATOR INFO : R	    1975 SC 706	 (16)ACT:Jagir,	Abolition  of--Regulations promulgated	by  MilitaryGovernor   and	Prime	Minister--Constitutional   validity-Delegation   of	 authority  by	Nizam--Nature  and   extent-Hyderabad  (Abolition of jagirs) Regulation, 1358 Fasli,  s.6(4)-Hyderabad	jagir (Commutation) Regulation (XXV of	1359Fasli) s. 4(1)(c), 4(2)--Constitution of India, Art. 32(B).HEADNOTE:After  the  Police  action in the  State  of  Hyderabad	 inAugust,	 1948,	the Nizam, by a Farman dated  September	 19,1948,  invested the Military Governor " with  all  authorityfor the administration of the State " and by a later  Farmandeclared  that " the said authority includes and has  alwaysincluded  authority to make Regulations." By virtue  of	 thesaid powers, the Military Governor promulgated the Hyderabad(Abolition of jagirs) Regulations of 1358 Fasli.  Thereafteron  the	 termination  of the  appointment  of  the  MilitaryGovernor, the Nizam by another Farman appointed Mr.  Vellodias his Chief Minister and directed that " all the powers  ofadministration,	 vested in the Military Governor before	 thesaid  date  are	 exercisable by the  Chief  Minister."	Thusempowered,  the	 Chief Minister	 promulgated  the  Hyderabadjagirs	 (Commutation)	 Regulation  XXV  of   1358   Fasli.Thereafter  with  the commencement of  the  Constitution  ofIndia,	the territory of the State of Hyderabad became	partof  the Union of India and the President certified  the	 twoRegulations  under Art. 31(6) of the Constitution.   By	 theConstituion  (First Amendment) Act of 1951, Arts. 31(A)	 and31(B)  and Sch.	 IX were inserted into the Constitution	 andthe two Regulations were included in the said schedule.	 Theappellant, whose properties had been taken over by the jagirAdministrator  under the Abolition Regulation, and who	had,in the meantime, filed a writ petition in the High Court, byhis   amended	petition   after  the	amendment   of	 theConstitution,  claimed	that  ss. 4(1)(c) and  4(2)  of	 theCommutation   Regulation  and  s.  6(4)	 of  the   AbolitionRegulation  were  confiscatory	in nature  and	amounted  tocolourable  and	 fraudulent exercise of	 legislative  power.The High Court found against him and rejected his petition:Held, that the decision of the High Court must be affirmed.There can be no question that the Nizam, at the time when heexecuted the Farmans and prior to it, was an absolute  rulervested	 with  all  authority  executive,  legislative	 andjudicial   and	had  unquestionable  powers  to	 modify	  orextinguish  any	 of  the  rights of  his  subjects  and	 thelanguage  of the Farmans leaves no manner of doubt  that  hethereby delegated the entirety312of  his	 authority and powers to the Military  Governor	 andthereafter to the Prime Minister.The  doctrine  of  invalidity  of  legislation	enacted	  incolourable exercise of legislative authority can apply	onlywhere	the   legislature  is  subject	 to   constitutionalrestrictions.	But  where  the powers	of  the	 legislaturesuffers	 from no limitations, constitutional  or  otherwise,that doctrine can have no application.No  question  of infringement of  fundamental  rights  couldarise as (i) the impugned Regulations were  pre-Constitutionlegislations  and  the appellant's rights had  already	beendetermined  before the Constitution, (ii) Art. 32(B) of	 theConstitution exempts the Regulations from such a challenge.Keshavan Madhava Menon v. State of Bombay [1951] S.C.R. 228,referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE  JURISDICTION:	 Civil Appeals Nos.  392  of1956 & 686 of 1957.Appeals from the judgment and order dated March 31, 1954, ofthe former Hyderabad High Court in Civil Writ Nos. 43 and 44of 1951 respectively.S.   P.	 Varma,	 S. Mohammed and S. R. Borgaouker,  for	 theappellants in both the appeals.A.   V. Viswanatha Sastri, P. V. R. Tatachari and T.M.	Sen,for the respondents in both the appeals.Civil Appeal No. 392 of 1956.1960.  March 16.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySHAH, J.-This is an appeal filed with a certificate  grantedunder  Art. 133(1)(c) of the Constitution by the High  Courtof Judicature of the State,, of Hyderabad.The appellant was a Jagirdar holding jagirs Ramwarm  ChandamPalli  and Gulla Palli, Taluq Sirsalla, in the	District  ofKarimnagar  in	the State of Hyderabad.	  After	 the  PoliceAction in August, 1948, Major General Chaudary was appointedthe   Military	 Governor  for	the  State   of	  Hyderabad.His  Exalted  Highness the Nizam of Hyderabad  invested	 theMilitary Governor with authority to administer the State  bya  Farman dated September 19, 1948.  The Farman was  in	 thefollowing terms:"  Whereas the General Officer Commanding in Chief  SouthernArmy has appointed Major General J. N. Chaudary, O.B.E.,  tobe the Military Governor for the Hyderabad State and whereasall authority313for  the  administration of the State now vests	 in  him,  Ihereby	enjoin	all the subjects of the State to  carry	 outsuch  orders as he may deem fit to issue from time to  time.I  appeal  to all officers of the State	 administration	 andsubjects  of  the State to render faithful  and	 unflinchingobedience to the Military Governor and conduct themselves ina manner calculated to bring about the speedy restoration oflaw and order in the State ".On August 7, 1949, His Exalted Highness the Nizam issued  anexplanatory Farman in the following terms:"  With reference to my Farman dated 19-9-1948, in  which  Ireferred   to	the  fact  that	 all   authority   for	 theadministration	of  the	 State now  vests  in  the  MilitaryGovernor, I hereby declare that the said authority  includesand has always included authority to make Regulations ".On  August 10, 1949, the Military Governor  promulgated	 TheHyderabad  (Abolition of Jagirs) Regulation of	1358  Fasli,which  will  hereinafter  be referred to  as  the  AbolitionRegulation.   This  Regulation	was brought  into  force  onAugust 15, 1949, the date of its publication in the OfficialGazette.   Section 5 of the Regulation directed that from  adate to be notified for the transfer of the  administrationsof the jagirs in the State to the Government, the  jagirdarsshall  make over the management of the jagirs to  the  JagirAdministrator  and  in default of compliance  therewith	 theOfficer	 appointed  under the Regulation may  take  forciblepossession.  By s. 6, it was provided that the jagirs  shallbe included in the " Diwani " and unless and until  includedin   a	district,  shall  be  administered  by	 the   JagirAdministrator,	and that the powers, rights and	 liabilitiesin relation to such jagirs shall cease to be exercisable  bythe  jagirdars	and  shall  be	exercisable  by	 the   JagirAdministrators,	 and  that  no	jagirdar  shall	 recover  orreceive	 any  customary	 or other dues from  any  tenant  orresident  of the jagir.	 By s. 14, it was declared that	 thejagirdars  were	 to  receive  certain  interim	 maintenanceallowances  until such time as the terms of the	 commutationof  the jagirs were determined.	 Pursuant to  the  authorityreserved by a. 6 of the Abolition Regulation, possession314of  the jagirs was taken over sometime in September 1949  bythe  Jagir  Administrator acting on behalf of the  State  ofHyderabad.On  December  1,  1949, another Farman	was  issued  by	 HisExalted Highness the Nizam which provided as follows:"  Whereas the General Officer Commanding in Chief  SouthernArmy  has  as from the 1st December,  1949,  terminated	 theappointment  of	 Major General Chaudary, O.B.E., to  be	 theMilitary Governor for the Hyderabad State; And whereas it isnecessary to make other arrangements for the  administrationof the State as from the said date;Now,  therefore, I hereby appoint as from the said date	 Mr.M.  K.	Vellodi,  C.I.E., I.C.S., to be	 my  Chief  Ministerand   ...   I  further	direct	that  all  the	 powers	  ofadministration,	 vested in the Military Governor before	 thesaid date are exercisable by the Chief Minister ".In exercise of the powers vested in him, the Chief  Ministerpromulgated  the Hyderabad Jagirs  (Commutation)  RegulationNo. XXV of 1359 Fasli which will hereinafter be referred  toas the Commutation Regulation.	This Regulation was  broughtinto  operation	 on  January  25, 1950.	  By  s.  3  of	 theRegulation, the method of computing the commutation sum	 forevery jagir was prescribed.After  the  inauguration  of the Constitution  of  India  onJanuary 26, 1950, on which date the' territory of the  Stateof  Hyderabad  became  part  of	 the  Union  of	 India,	 thePresident  on April 25, 1950, certified the two	 Regulationsunder  Art.  31(6)  of the Constitution	 by  a	notificationpublished  in  the  gazette  of the  Union  of	India.	 TheConstitution   was   amended  on  June	18,  1951   by	 theConstitution  (First Amendment) Act of 1951  whereby,  interalia,  Arts. 31(A) and 31(B) and Sch.  IX were	incorporatedin  the	 Constitution.	 The Abolition	Regulation  and	 theCommutation  Regulation were included in Schedule IX and  byvirtue of Art. 31(B), neither the Regulations nor any of theprovisions  thereof were to be deemed to be void or ever  tohave become void on the ground that the315Regulations were inconsistent with or -took away or abridgedany of the rights conferred by any of the provisions of PartIII  of	 the Constitution.  In the meantime,  the  appellanthad, on January 29, 1951, filed a petition in the High Courtof Hyderabad for a writ in the nature of mandamus  directingthe  State of Hyderabad and the Jagir Administrator to	handover  possession  of the appellant's properties and  for  anorder declaring the Abolition Regulation and the CommutationRegulation ultra vires and unconstitutional and for  certaininterim	 orders.  After the amendment of  the  Constitution,the  petition  was  amended on August  14,  1952.   By	thispetition, the appellant claimed that ss. 4(1)(c) and 4(2) ofthe  Commutation  Regulation and s. 6(4)  of  the  AbolitionRegulation  were invalid because by these provisions,  therewas " naked confiscation of the property " of the  appellantand  that  they	 amounted to  "	 colourable  and  fraudulentexercise of legislative power ". The High Court of Hyderabadrejected the petition filed by the appellant, but  certifiedthe  case  under Art. 133(1)(c) as a fit one for  appeal  tothis court.In  this  appeal,  two	principal  contentions	fall  to  bedetermined,  viz.,  (1) whether	 legislative  authority	 wasconferred  upon	 the Military Governor by the  Farman  datedSeptember  19, 1948 and (2) If, by the	Farman,	 legislativeauthority was delegated to the Military Governor, whether itwas circumscribed by any limitations or reservations.Was the Military Governor, by the Farman dated September 19,1948, invested with all the sovereign authority legislative,executive and judicial of H.E.H. the Nizam or was he  merelyinvested  with the executive authority ? By the plain  wordsused  in the Farman, " all authority for the  administrationof  the State was conferred upon the Military Governor"	 andthere  is nothing in the text of the Farman  which  warrantsthe  view that only executive authority was intended  to  bedelegated   thereby.	Within	 the   expression,   "	 alladministrative	authority " is encompassed the	entirety  ofthe  authority of the sovereign, and by the delegation	fromHis  Exalted Highness the Nizam, the Military  Governor	 wasinvested with that authority316in all its amplitude.  The injunction to the subjects of theState to carry out all such orders as the Military  Governormay deem fit to issue and the appeal to the officers of	 theState  and the subjects to render faithful  and	 unflinchingobedience  and to conduct themselves in a manner  calculatedto  bring about the speedy restoration of law and order,  donot  detract from the amplitude of the powers  delegated  tothe  Military  Governor.  The expression, " orders  "  wouldinclude	 every order made in exercise of authority  for	 theadministration	of the State; and the object intended to  beachieved,  viz., the speedy restoration of law and order  inthe State by His Exalted Highness the Nizam as expressed  inthe appeal was not restrictive of that authority.  That	 HisExalted	 Highness  the	Nizam in and  before  the  month  ofSeptember,  1948,  was an absolute ruler invested  with	 allauthority,   executive,	  legislative	and   judicial	  isindisputable.	He  had	 supreme powers	 vested	 in  him  tomodify,	 restrict take away or extinguish the rights of	 anyof  his subjects and the validity of his actions  or  orderswas  not  liable  to be questioned before  any	tribunal  orauthority.The Farman promulgated on September 19, 1948, by His ExaltedHighness the Nizam delegated his sovereign authority to	 theMilitary Governor and to remove all doubts as to the  effectof  that delegation, an explanatory Farman dated  August  7,1949, was issued.  It was declared in express terms by	thatFarman	that  the authority of the  Military  Governor	-to;included  and  has  always included the	 authority  to	makeRegulations  ".	 In the clearest terms, the  author  of	 theFarman proclaimed the content of the authority delegated  byhim to the Military Governor.The  plea rather faintly urged by Mr. Varma that the  Farmanmerely recited that the Military Governor had been  investedwith  authority	 for administration and did not by  its	 ownforce purport to invest the Military Governor with authorityto  administer	the State is plainly inconsistent  with	 theargument  which	 was  advanced in the  High  Court  and	 thestatement of the case filed in this court and was  thereforerightly abandoned by him.317Though by the delegation of authority, the Military Governorwas invested with all authority of His Exalted Highness	 theNizam  in the matter of administration of the State  in	 allits departments, the sovereignty of His Exalted Highness theNizam  was,  by	 this act  of  delegation,  undoubtedly	 notextinguished.	It  was	 open to  him,	notwithstanding	 thedelegation, to issue orders or Regulations contrary to thosewhich  were  issued by the Military Governor,  and  also  towithdraw the authority of the Military Governor.  There	 is,however,  no  evidence	on the record  to  show	 that  afterSeptember 19, 1948, and before the Abolition Regulation	 waspromulgated,  the  authority of the  Military  Governor	 waswithdrawn or that His Exalted Highness the Nizam had  issuedany  order  or Regulation inconsistent	with  the  AbolitionRegulation.   The  authority of the  Military  Governor	 waswithdrawn  in  December, 1949, and the	Chief  Minister	 wasinvested with the same authority of administration includingexpressly  the power of legislation, and it was in  exerciseof  that  authority  that  the	Chief  Minister	 issued	 theCommutation Regulation.The  authority	of  His Exalted Highness the  Nizam  as	 thesovereign  ruler to resume the jagirs and to extinguish	 theinterests of the jagirdars being by delegation vested in theMilitary Governor, the legality of the action of the  latterwas  not  open	to  challenge on  any  test  of	 legislativecompetence.   Assuming	that no opportunity had	 arisen	 forexercise  of  the  sovereign  authority	 in  the  matter  ofresumption  of	jagirs	or  extinction	of  the	  jagirdars'interests   before   the  promulgation	of   the   AbolitionRegulation,  an	 inference cannot therefrom arise  that	 HisExalted	  Highness  the	 Nizam	had  irrevocably  placed   arestriction  on his sovereignty, or that the  delegation  tothe Military Governor of the sovereign authority was subjectto  an	implied	 restriction  that  the	 interests  of	 thejagirdars  in  the  jagirs  could not  in  exercise  of	 theauthority be extinguished.The authority of the Military Governor, being  unrestricted,so  long as it enured, his action in issuing  the  AbolitionRegulation could not be challenged on the plea that it was acolourable exercise of legislative41318authority.   The  doctrine  of	invalidity  of	 legislativeprovisions  enacted  in	 colourable  exercise  of  authorityapplies	  to  legislatures  whose  powers  are	subject	  toconstitutional	restrictions.  When such a legislative	bodyseeks,	under  the guise or pretence of complying  with	 therestrictions, in enacting a statute, to evade or elude them,it  is but a fraud on the Constitution, and the	 statute  isliable	to  be	declared  invalid on  the  ground  that	 theenactment  is  in  colourable  exercise	 of  authority,	 thestatute	 being in truth beyond the competence of  the  body.But  a	statute	 enacted by a  legislative  authority  whosepowers	are  not  fettered by any  constitutional  or  otherlimitations,  cannot  be  declared  invalid  as	 enacted  incolourable exercise of its powers.The  authority of the Chief Minister under the Farman  datedDecember 1, 1949, in its amplitude, was as extensive as thatof  His	 Exalted  Highness the	Nizam  and  the	 CommutationRegulation was not liable to be challenged on the ground  ofwant  of  legislative competence or colourable	exercise  oflegislative authority, the power exercised by him being	 thelegislative power as the delegate of the Sovereign.The plea that the fundamental rights of the appellant  underthe Constitution were infringed by the two Regulations	doesnot  require  any detailed examination.	 By  virtue  of	 theAbolition  Regulation,	the  rights of the  appellant  as  ajagirdar   in  his  jagir  were	 extinguished  and  by	 theCommutation Regulation, the quantum of compensation  payableto  him	 was determined by a  pre-Constitution	legislation.The Regulations were competently promulgated in exercise  oflegislative authority in that behalf ; and the	Constitutiondoes not operate retrospectively to revive the rights  whichhad   been,  before  it	 was  enacted,	extinguished.	 TheConstitution has  except as otherwise expressly provided, noretrospective operation	 Keshavan Mahava Menon v. State	 -ofBombay	 (1);	and  rights  which   were   by	 legislationextinguished,  before  it  was	enacted,  are  not   revivedthereby.   At  the  commencement of  the  Constitution,	 theappellant  had, therefore, no rights in the jagirs  and	 he,obviously, could not claim a writ of mandamus directing(1)  [1951] S.C.R. 228.319delivery  of  possession of the jagir, or a  writ  directingcommutation  otherwise	than  under the	 provisions  of	 theCommutation  Regulation.  It may also be observed  that	 theParliament  has, by the Constitution (1st,  Amendment)	Act,included  the Abolition and the Commutation  Regulations  inthe  ninth  schedule, and by virtue of Art. 31(B),  the	 twoRegulations  are  exempt from challenge on the	ground	thatthey  are inconsistent with or take away or abridge  any  ofthe  fundamental  rights  conferred  by	 Part  III  of	 theConstitution.The appeal therefore fails and is dismissed with costs.Civil Appeal No. 686 of 1957.This appeal raises the same question which has been  decidedin the companion Appeal No. 392 of 1956 and for reasons	 setout  therein,  this appeal must fail and is  dismissed	withcosts.Appeals dismissed.