PETITIONER:BALKRISHNA SAVALRAM PUJARI AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:SHREE DNYANESHWAR MAHARAJSANSTHAN & OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:26/03/1959BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.SUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  798		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 476 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1981 SC1106	 (18)ACT:Limitation-Suit	 for  Possession of Sansthan  by  hereditaryworshippers  on	 ouster by  trustees-Period  of	 limitation-Trustees,  if in possession adversely to  Plaintiffs-Ouster,if  a  continuing wrong-Indian Limitation Act,	1908  (9  of1908), Arts. 120, 124, S. 23.HEADNOTE:The  appellants who were the hereditary worshippers,  calledGuravs, of the Shree Dnyaneshwar Sansthan of Alandi, claimedto  be its owners.  The respondents as trustees of the	saidSansthan  dismissed eleven of the Guravs in 1911,  served  anotice	on  the	 rest  calling upon them  to  agree  to	 actaccording  to  the  orders  of	the  Temple  committee	 andappointed  six	Brahmins  to carry on the  services  of	 theSansthan.  The Guravs did not agree and sued the respondentsfor   a	 declaration  of  their	 rights	 of  ownership	 andconsequential  reliefs.	 That litigation ended in  the	HighCourt in 1921 with the result that their claim of  ownershipstood  rejected but their rights as  hereditary	 worshipperswere  left  open.   Thereafter	the  Guravs  took   forciblepossession  of	the temple on July  25,1922.   The  trusteesbrought	 a  suit under s. 9 of the Specific  Relief  Act  onSeptember  12,	1922, and obtained a decree on	November  4,1932.	 In  execution	of  that  decree  the  Guravs	weredispossessed.	The suits, out of which the present  appealsarise, were filed by the appellants against the trustees fordeclaration  of their rights as hereditary servants  of	 theSansthan,  a permanent injunction restraining  the  trusteesfrom obstructing them in the exercise of the said rights andaccounts.  The respondents claimed that the appellants	wereservants  of  the  Temple committee and	 had  no  hereditaryrights as claimed by them; even if they had, their claim  tosuch  rights  was  barred by limitation.   The	trial  Courtdecreed the suits. In appeal the High Court, while  agreeingwith  the  trial  court	 on the	 merits,  disagreed  on	 thequestion  of  limitation,  held the suits to  be  barred  bylimitation  under art. 120 Of the Limitation Act, the  causeof  action arising either on the filing of the s. 9 suit  bythe respondents or, in any event, on the date when the	saidsuit  was decreed, S. 23 of the Act having  no	application,and allowed the appeals.  It was contended on behalf of	 theappellants  in	this Court that the suits were	governed  byart.   I24  Of	the Limitation Act, and	 even  if  art.	 120applied, S. 23 saved limitation.Held, that the High Court was right in holding that art. 120and not art. 124, of the Limitation Act applied and that  S.23 had no application to the suits in question.477Article	 124  Of the Limitation Act applies only  where	 thecause  of action for the suit is wrongful  dispossession  ofthe  plaintiff	and adverse possession by the  defendant  inrespect	 of  the  hereditary office in	question.   In	suchsuits, the contest usually is between rival claimants to thehereditary  office  and	 not  between  such  claimants	 andtrustees.  It is impossible to ignore the provision Of	Col.3 to that article in deciding its applicability.Kunj Bihari Prasadji v. Keshavlal Hiralal, [1904] I.L.R.  28Bom.  567  and jalim Singh Srimal v. Choonee  Lall  Johurry,[1911] 15 C.W.N. 882, held inapplicable.Thathachariar  v. Singarachariar, A.I.R. 1928 Mad. 377,	 ap-proved.Annasami  v.  Advarachari,  I.L.R. 1941	 Mad.  275,  distin-guished.Jhalandar Thakur v. jharula Das, [1914] I.L.R. 42 Cal. 2444,referred to.Section 23 Of the Limitation Act refers not to a  continuingright  but  to a continuing wrong.  A  continuing  wrong  isessentially  one that creates a source of continuing  injuryas  opposed  to	 one that was complete and  makes  the	doerliable	for such continuance.  A completed inJury would	 notbe  a  continuing wrong even though it might  give  rise  tocontinuing damage.Thus tested, the injury to the appellants resulting from thedecree	obtained  by the trustees in the s.  9	suit,  whichamounted to a ouster, was complete at the date of the ousterand  S.	 23 Of the Limitation Act could not apply so  as  tosave limitation.Choudhury Bibhuti Narayan Singh v. Maharaja Sir Guru MahadeuAsram  Prasad  Saki Bahadur, [1930] I.L.R. 19 Pat.  208	 andKhair  Mohammad Khan v. Mst. jannat, [1940] I.L.R.  22	Lah.22, referred to.Maharani Rajroop Koer v. Syaed Abdul Hossein, [1880] L.R.  7I.A.  240 and Hukum Chand v. Maharaj Bahadur  Singh,  [1933]L.R. 60 I.A. 313, distinguished and held inapplicable.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 220 to	 223of 1953.Appeals	 from the Judgment and decrees dated April  14,1943,of  the Bombay High Court in Appeals Nos. 183, 184, 185	 and186 of 1942, arising out of the judgments and decrees  datedFebruary 16, 1942, of the Court of the 1st Class  Sub-Judge,Poona, in Suits Nos. 900/37, 392/35, 875/36 and 1202/33.V.   P. Rege and Naunit Lal, for the appellants.N.   C.	 Chatterjee,  K.  V.  Joshi  and  Ganpat  Rai,	 forrespondents Nos. 1 to 6 (In all the Appeals).4781959.  March 26.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR,	 J.-These  four appeals represent  the	laststage  of  a  long  and	 tortuous  litigation  between	 theappellants  Waghmares  (also called Guravs)  who  claim	 therights	of hereditary worshippers in the  Shree	 DnyaneshwarMaharaj Sansthan, Alandi, and respondents 1 to 6 who are thetrustees  of the said Sansthan.	 Alandi , which is  a  smalltown situated on the banks of the river Indrayani at a	dis-tance  of about 14 miles from Poona, is regarded as  a	holyplace of pilgrimage by thousands of Hindu devotees.  In	 thelast quarter' of the 13th century Shree Dnyaneshwar Maharaj,the  great  Maharashtra	 Saint	and  Philosopher,  lived  atAlandi.	  He  was a spiritual teacher and reformer;  by	 hissaintly	 life and his inspiring and illuminating  commentaryon  the	 Bhagvad Gita, known as Dnyaneshwari, he  helped  tocreate	a popular urge and fervour for religious and  socialrevolution which led to the foundation of a devotional cult;the  followers	of  this  cult	are  known  as	Warkaris  inMaharashtra.  They refuse to recognise any barriers of casteor  class; and amongst them prevails a feeling of  real	 andgenuine spiritual brotherhood.	Every year, in the months ofJuly  and November, thousands of them proceed on  pilgrimageon  foot and accompany the annual palanquin procession	fromAlandi	to  Pandharpur.	 Pandharpur is the chief  centre  ofpilgrimage in Maharashtra and it is regarded by devotees  asthe  Banares  of  Southern India.  About 1300  A.  D.  ShreeDnyaneshwar  Maharaj took Samadhi at Alandi and	 since	thenAlandi also has become a place of pilgrimage.In or about 1500 A. D. a big temple was erected in front  ofthe  idol  of Shiva called Siddeshwar where the	 said  ShreeDayaneshwar  Maharaj  took his Samadhi.	 In due	 course	 theMahratta Kings and the Peshwas of Poona granted the  villageof  Alandi  in	inam for the upkeep of the  temple  and	 theSamadhi.   About 1760 A. D. Peshwa Balaji Baji Rao framed  abudget	called Beheda or Taleband in order to  regulate	 themanagement and worship of the shrine and provided for proper479administration of its annual revenue amounting to Rs. 1,725.The  appellants	 claim	that their ancestors  were  then  inpossession  of	the  temple and management  of	its  affairsespecially the worship of the shrine.  The budget framed  bythe Peshwa shows that out of the sum of Rs. 1,725 an  amountof Rs. 361 was assigned to the worshippers for some of theirservices.After  the  fall  of the Mahratta power	 the  management  ofAlandi passed into the hands of the East India Company whichcontinued the old arrangement without any interference.	  In1852,  under  orders  from  the-Government  of	Bombay	 theCollector  of Poona drew up a yadi or memorandum  appointingsix  persons as Punchas (trustees) with directions  to	themfor the management of the temple in accordance with the	 oldtradition and practice as well as for the administration  ofthe  revenue  of  the village subject  to  the	control	 andsanction  of  the Collector.  This arrangement	came  to  bedescribed as " the scheme of 1852".In  1863  the  Religious  Endowment  Act  was  passed,	 andinconsequence,	in  1864 the Government of  Bombay  withdrewtheir  superintendence	over  the  affairs  of	the   AlandiSansthan;  and the trustees continued to manage the  affairsof  the	 temple without any supervision on the part  of	 theGovernment.  It was during this period that the	 appellants'ancestors  began to assert that they were the owners of	 theshrine	while the trustees insisted on treating them as	 theservants  of  the shrine.  This conflict inevitably  led  toseveral disputes between the worshippers and the trustees.Matters	 appear	 to have come to a crisis in 1911  when	 thetrustees dismissed eleven Guravs from the temple service  onthe ground that they were found guilty of gross	 misconduct.The  Guravs nevertheless asserted that they were the  ownersof  the	 shrine and that the trustees had  no  authority  orpower  to  dismiss  them.   Taking  their  stand  on   theirownership  of the shrine some of the dismissed Guravs  filedCivil  Suit No. 485 of 1911 in the Court of the	 SubordinateJudge,	Poona,	against	 the  trustees	and  this  was	 thebeginning  of the long drawn out litigation  which  followedbetween the parties.  In that suit the Guravs480claimed	 a  declaration	 that they were the  owners  of	 thetemple and not the servants of the temple committee; and  asowners	they  were entitled to perform the  worship  at	 theshrine and to appropriate the offerings made to the idol  ofthe  Saint.   This claim was resisted by  the  trustees	 whopleaded	 that  the Guravs were merely the  servants  of	 thetemple	committee and not the owners at all.  On  April	 20,1917, the learned trial judge dismissed the suit because  heheld  that the Guravs were not the owners of the shrine	 andwere  not  entitled  to the declarations  claimed  by  them.Against	 this decision the Guravs preferred several  appealsbut  these appeals were dismissed on August 3, 1921.   Whiledismissing   their  appeals  the  High	Court	incidentallyexpressed the view that it was open to the Guravs to come toterms with the temple committee and that the terms on  whichthe Guravs could be reinstated can be decided  appropriatelyin a suit filed under s. 92 of the Code of Civil  Procedure.It was also observed by the High Court in its judgment	thatthe  temple  committee	did not dispute the  fact  that	 theGuravs	were the hereditary pujaris and that they  had	somerights	in  that capacity.  No doubt the  committee  claimedthat  under  the scheme framed in 1852 it was  competent  todismiss hereditary servants for a substantial cause such  asgross misconduct.It appears that instead of adopting the course indicated  inthe judgment of the High Court and filing a suit under s. 92of the Code, the Guravs chose to take the law into their ownhands,	and  obtained  forcible	 possession  of	 the  templepremises on July 25, 1922, and began to perform the puja andto  take the offerings placed before the deity as  they	 hadbeen doing prior to their dismissal.  This was followed by asuit  filed by the trustees on September 12, 1922 (Suit	 No.1075  of 1922) under s. 9 of the Specific Relief Act.	Thissuit  terminated in a decree in favour of the  committee  onNovember 4, 1922.  In pursuance of this decree the committeerecovered  possession  of the temple on November  16,  1922.Thus the Guravs had occupied the temple precincts for  aboutthree and a half months.481When  the Guravs were thus dispossessed by the committee  inexecution  of  the  decree  obtained by	 it,  some  of	themproceeded to file Suit No. 19 of 1922 in the District  Courtof  Poona; this suit purported to be one under s. 92 of	 theCode but it claimed the same reliefs as had been claimed  bythe  Guravs  in theirs earlier suit of 1911.  On  April	 25,1927, the District A Court dismissed this suit on the groundthat the Guravs could not reagitate the same questions	overagain. it was held that their claim was barred by the  deci-sion  of  the earlier Suit No. 485 of  1911.   Against	thisdecision the Guravs appealed to the High Court (First AppealNo.  507  of  1927);  but the High  Court  agreed  with	 theconclusion  of the District Court and dismissed the  Guravs"appeal on June 20, 1933.  It was held by the High Court thatthe suit as framed was not properly constituted under s.  92of the Code.It was at this stage that a properly constituted suit, No. 7of  1934, was filed under s. 92 of the Code by	the  generalpublic of Alandi along with two Guravs in the District Courtat Poona.  This suit claimed that a proper scheme should  beframed	for the management of the temple.  Even so,  one  ofthe  allegations made in the plaint referred to the  Guravs'rights	 as  hereditary	 worshippers.	It  was	  apparentlyapprehended that this allegation would be treated as outsidethe  scope  of a scheme suit under s. 92 and so	 the  Guravstook the precaution of filing four separate suits on  behalfof four branches in the Waghmare family one after the other.These suits were numbered as 1202 of 1933, 392 of 1935,	 875of 1936 and 900 of 1937; the plaintiffs in these suits	wererespectively the members of the third, the fourth, the firstand  the second branch of the Waghmare family'.	 It  appearsthat  the hearing of these suits were stayed by an order  ofthe District Judge pending the final decision of the  schemesuit which was being tried by him.The scheme suit was taken, up for hearing in 1937.  As	manyas  22	issues	were  framed in	 this  suit  and  voluminousevidence  Was  recorded.  In the result	 the  learned  judgesubstantially confirmed the original61482scheme	 of  1852,  though  he	issued	certain	  directionsmodifying it.  This decree was passed on December 11,  1937.The  trustees felt aggrieved by this decree  and  challengedits  propriety by preferring an appeal, No. 92 of  1938,  inthe  Bombay  High Court.  On  November 16,  1939,  the	HighCourt dismissed the appeal though it made some amendments inthe  scheme framed by the- District Judge by consent of	 theparties.After  the  scheme  suit was thus disposed of  by  the	HighCourt, the four suits filed by the pujaris were taken up fortrial by the learned Subordinate Judge, First Class,  Poona.In  all these suits the appellants claimed their  rights  ashereditary  vatandar Pujari Gurav Servants of the  Sansthan.They alleged that they were under a duty to perform  worshipaccording to certain rites in Shree Dayaneshwar Sansthan andthat  they  were also under an obligation to  perform  otherincidental  duties  enumerated	by them	 in  their  plaints.Likewise  they	claimed	 that  for  remuneration  they	wereentitled to receive coins and perishable articles offered bythe devotees and the committee as well as yearly  emolumentsfrom  the  committee.  On these allegations  the  appellantsclaimed	 a declaration about their respective rights and  aninjunction   permanently  restraining  the   trustees	fromobstructing  the  appellants  in the exercise  of  the	saidrights.	  They	also claimed accounts from the	trustees  inregard to the offerings prior to the institution of the suitas well as those made after the institution of the suit	 andbefore the passing of the decree.These  allegations were denied by respondents 1 to 6.  Theircase was that the appellants were the servants of the templecommittee  and as such had no hereditary rights set  up,  bythem.  In the alternative, it was pleaded by them that	evenif  the	 appellants had any hereditary rights the  same	 hadbeen  lost  by	their  misconduct  and	had  been  otherwiseextinguished  by limitation.  Against the appellants'  claimpleas of res judicata and estoppel were also raised.On  these pleadings as many as 21 issues were framed in	 thetrial court.  The trial court found in favour483of the appellants on all the issues.  The learned judge heldthat  the Guravs had established the hereditary	 rights	 setout  by them and he was inclined to take the view  that	 therespondents  could  not	 deprive  the  appellants  of  theirhereditary  rights of service because of the  misconduct  ofsome  of their ancestors.  He also found that there  was  nosubstance  in the plea of estoppel or res judicata and	thatthe suits were not barred by limitation.  In the result	 theappellants' suits were decreed on February 16, 1942.Thereupon  the	respondents  challenged	 these	decrees	  bypreferring  appeals against them in the Bombay	High  Court.The  four suits accordingly gave rise to First Appeals	Nos.183,  184,  185	 and 186 of  1942  respectively.   In  theseappeals	 the  High  Court agreed with  the  trial  court  inholding	 that on the merits the appellants  had	 establishedtheir case and that their claim was not barred either by resjudicata  or  by  estoppel.  However,  on  the	question  oflimitation the High Court took the view that the appellants'suits  were governed by art. 120 of the Limitation  Act	 andthat  they  had been filed beyond the period  of  six  yearsprescribed by the said article.	 That is why the High  Courtset aside the decrees passed by the trial court, allowed therespondents'  appeals and dismissed the	 appellants'  suits.However,  in view of the special facts of the case the	HighCourt  directed	 that each party should bear its  own  coststhroughout.  This judgment was pronounced on April 14, 1943.Like the trial court the High Court also dealt with all	 thefour cases by one common judgment.It  appears that after this judgment was pronounced  by	 theHigh  Court but before it Was signed, the  appellants  movedthe  High Court on July 2, 1943, for a rehearing of  one  ofthe appeals (No. 186 of 1942).	It was urged before the HighCourt  that even if art. 120 applied the claim made  by	 theappellant in the said appeal (which arose from Suit No. 1202of 1933) could not be held to be barred by limitation.	 TheHigh Court was not impressed by this plea and so the  motionfor rehearing was discharged.Subsequently a Civil Application, No. 1039 of 1944,484was  made  by the appellant in the said	 appeal	 seeking  toraise  the  same point over again but this  application	 wasrejected by the High Court on September 12, 1944.The appellants then applied for leave to appeal to the PrivyCouncil	 on August 15, 1944.  Their applications were  heardtogether  and were disposed of by an order passed  on  March26, 1946, whereby leave was granted to them to appeal to thePrivy  Council	and their prayer for consolidating  all	 theappeals was also allowed.  These appeals could not, however,be disposed of by the Privy Council before the	jurisdictionof the Privy Council to deal with Indian appeals came to  anend  and  so  they ultimately came to this  Court  and	werenumbered  as  Appeals Nos. 220 to 223 of 1953.	 It  may  beconvenient  to state that these appeals	 arise	respectivelyfrom  Suits Nos. 907 of 1937, 392 of 1935, 875 of  1936	 and1202  of  1933.	 It would thus be seen that  the  litigationwhich began between the parties in 1911 has now reached	 itsfinal stage before us in the present appeals.As  we	have already indicated, both the courts	 below	havefound in favour of the appellants on most of the issues thatarose  in  the present litigation; but the  appellants	havefailed	in the High Court on the ground of  limitation.	  Inthe  trial court the respondents had urged that the  presentsuits  were governed by art. 124 of the Limitation  Act	 andthat  since  the Guravs had been dismissed from	 service  in1911  and  other Guravs refused to serve in  1913  and	1914limitatation  began to run against them at least  from	1914and so the suits were beyond time.  The learned trial  judgeheld  that  art.  124  was  inapplicable.   He	also   foundalternatively  that, even if the said article  applied,	 thetrustees  did  not have continuous possession  of  the	suitproperties  from  1911 or 1914 for twelve years and  so	 thesuits  were not barred by time.	 According to him  the	casewas  really covered by s. 23 of the Limitation Act,  and  sothe plea of limitation could not succeed.The  High Court has agreed with the trial court	 in  holdingthat art. 124 is inapplicable.	It has, however,485come  to the conclusion that the suits are governed by	art.120  of the Limitation Act, and, according to its  findings,limitation  began to run against the appellants either	fromSeptember 12, 1922, when the trustees filed their suit unders.  9  of  the Specific Relief Act, or,	 in  any  case	fromNovember,  1922 when, in execution of the decree  passed  inthe said' suit, the appellants were driven out of the templeprecincts  by  the trustees.  The High Court has  also	heldthat  s.  23 can have no application to	 the  present  case.That  is how the High Court has reached the conclusion	thatthe  appellants'  suits are barred by time under  art.	120.The  question which arises for our decision in	the  presentappeals,  therefore,  is  one of limitation; it	 has  to  beconsidered  in	two  aspects: Was the High  Court  right  inholding	 that art. 120 applies and that the cause of  actionaccrued	 more  than  six  years	 before	 the  dates  of	 theinstitution of the present suits ?; Was the High Court	alsoright in holding that s. 23 does not apply to the suits ?On  behalf of the appellants Mr. Rege has contended that  insubstance, in their present suits the appellants have made aclaim  for  possession of an hereditary office and  as	suchthey  would be governed by art. 124 of the  Limitation	Act.In  this  connection  he has referred  us  to  the  relevantallegations  in	 the  plaint to show  that  the	 appellants'prayer	for a declaration about their hereditary rights	 andfor  a consequential permanent injunction amount to no	moreand  no	 less  than  a claim  for  possession  of  the	saidhereditary office.  In support of this argument reliance hasbeen placed on the decision of the Bombay High Court in KunjBihari Prasadji v. Keshavlal Hiralal (1).  In that case	 theplaintiff  had made a claim to the gadi of the	Swaminarayantemple at Ahmedabad and had asked for a declaration that thewill  of  the  last  Acharya  which  purported	to   appointdefendant  14 as his adopted son and successor was null	 andvoid.	As  a consequence a perpetual injunction  -was	alsoclaimed	  restraining  the  defendants	from  offering	 anyobstruction  to	 the plaintiff in occupying the	 said  gadi.The(1)  (1904) I.L.R. 28 Bom. 567.486principal point which was decided in the case had  referenceto  the	 effect of the provisions of s. 42 of  the  SpecificRelief Act., The plaintiff's suit had been dismissed in	 thecourts	below on the ground that he had omitted to  ask	 forfurther relief as he was bound to do under s. 42 of the saidAct and the High Court held that the section did not empowerthe  court to dismiss the suit under the said  section.	  Inconsidering  the nature of the claim made by  the  plaintiffJenkins, C. J., observed that " in the plaintiff's view	 thesuit  was not one of possession of land appertaining to	 thegadi but to determine who was to occupy the gadi and thus asgadinishin become the human agent of the deity.	 If that wasso,  then the injunction restraining all  interference	withthe  occupancy by the plaintiff of the gadi secures  in	 themost  complete	manner to him the rights he  claims  ".	 Thelearned	 Chief	Justice also observed that "  the  plaintiffmight  in terms have asked for possession of the  office  hesaid was his ", but be asked " how would practical effect begiven to an award of possession of office otherwise than  bypreventing interference with the rights of which it was madeup  ".	Even so, having reversed the decree  passed  by	 thecourts	below,	when the High Court remanded  the  case	 forretrial,  the plaintiff was advised to amend his plaint	 andto  define  more precisely the terms of	 the  injunction  hesought.	  It is urged that, in the present appeals also,  byasking	for  a	declaration  of	 their	rights	and  for  anappropriate   injunction   against  the	  respondents,	 theappellants  were  in  effect asking for	 possession  of	 thehereditary office.  It is doubtful if the claims made by theappellants  in their respective suits are exactly  analogousto  the claim made by the plaintiff in Kunj Bihari  Prasad'scase  (1).   The  appellants  have not	only  asked  for  aninjunction but also for an account of the income received bythe trustees from July 23, 1933, up to the date of the	suitas  well  as for similar account from the date of  the	suituntil  the date of the decree.	A claim for accounts in	 theform  in which it is made may not be quite  consistent	withthe appellants' contention that their suits are for  nothingmore than possession(1)  (1904) I.L.R. 28 Bom. 567.487of  the hereditary office ; but in dealing with the  presentappeals	 we  are  prepared  to	assume	that  they  have  insubstance  claimed possession of the office.   The  questionwhich then arises is: Does this claim for possession attractthe  application  of  art.  124	 of  the  Limitation  Act  ?Article	 124 governs suits for possession of  an  hereditaryoffice.	 The period of limitation prescribed by the  articleis  twelve years and the said period begins to run when	 thedefendant  takes possession of the office adversely  to	 theplaintiff.   This is explained to mean that  the  hereditaryoffice	is  possessed when the profits thereof	are  usuallyreceived  or  (if  there are no	 profits)  when	 the  dutiesthereof are usually performed.	It is clear that before thisarticle can apply it must be shown that the suit makes claimfor  possession	 of an office which is hereditary;  and	 theclaim  must  be	 made against the defendant  who  has  takenpossession  of the said hereditary office adversely  to	 theplaintiff.  Unlike art. 142 the fact that the plaintiff,  isout  of	 possession of the hereditary office for  more	thantwelve	years before the date of his suit would	 not  defeathis  claim  for possession of the said office.	 What  woulddefeat	his  claim  is the adverse possession  of  the	saidoffice	by the defendant for the prescribed period.  As	 theexplanation  makes  it	clear usually  the  receipt  of	 theprofits	 may amount to the possession of the office; but  ifthe  defendant	merely	receives the profits  but  does	 notperform the duties which are usually performed by the holderof the office, the receipt of the profits by itself may	 notamount to the possession of office.  The cause of action forpossession  in suits falling under art. 124 is the  wrongfuldispossession of the plaintiff and the adverse possession bythe  defendant	of  the	 office	 in  question.	 Claims	 forpossession   of	  hereditary  offices  which   attract	 theapplication  of this article are usually made by holders  ofthe   said  offices  against  persons  who   claim   adversepossession of the said offices; in other words, in suits  ofthis kind, the contest is usually between rival claimants tothe hereditary office in question.In the present appeals the claim for possession is488made by the appellants against the trustees of the Sansthan.It  is	significant  that the -	 persons  who  are  actuallyperforming the duties of the worshippers are not impleaded ;and they do not claim to hold office as hereditary  officerseither.	  They	have  been  appointed  by  the	trustees  asservants of the institution  and they perform the duties  ofworship as such servants.  The trustees, on the other  hand,cannot	be   said  to have taken possession  of	 the  officethemselves  adversely to the appellants.  They do  not	takethe  profits  themselves  nor do  they	perform	 the  dutiesassociated with the said office.  They have, in exercise  oftheir  authority  and  power  as  trustees,  dismissed	 theappellants'  predecessors  from office and have	 made  freshappointments  of  servants  to perform the  worship  at	 theSansthan; and in making the said appointments, have in	factdestroyed  the	hereditary  character of  the  office.	 Thedispute	 in the present appeals is between  the	 worshipperswho  claim  hereditary	rights	and  the  trustees  of	 theinstitution  who  claim	 to  have  validly  terminated	 theservices  of some of the predecessors of the appellants	 andto have made valid appointments to the said office.  It	 is,therefore, impossible to accept the argument that the  claimmade  by the appellants in their respective  suits  attractsthe provision& of art. 124.  It is conceded by Mr. Rege thatif art. 124 does, not apply, the suits would be governed  byart.  120 which is a residuary article.	 It may prima  facieappear somewhat strange that whereas a suit against a personclaiming  to  hold the hereditary office  adversely  to	 theplaintiff is governed by a period' of twelve years, a  claimagainst	 the  trustees like the respondents in	the  presentappeals who have dismissed the hereditary worshippers shouldbe governed by a period of six years.  It may be possible tosuggest that there is a substantial difference in the natureof  the two disputes ; but apart from it, it  is  well-knownthat  the artificial provisions of limitation do not  alwayssatisfy the test of logic or equity.Mr.  Rege, however, argued that in determining the scope  ofart.  124 we need not consider the provisions of col.  3  tothe said article.  His contention appears489to be that once it is shown that the suit is for  possessionof  an	hereditary office, art. 124 must  apply	 though	 theclaim  for  possession	may not have been  made	 ,against  aperson	who has taken possession of the office adversely  tothe  plaintiff.	  He  also  urged  alternatively  that	 thetrustees  should be deemed to have, taken possession of	 theoffice	adversely to the appellants.  We have  already	heldthat  the conduct of the trustees shows that they  have	 nottaken possession of the office adversely within the  meaningof  col. 3 of art. 124; and we do not think it is  possible,to ignore the provision of col. 3 in deciding whether or notart. 124 applies.  It is true that in Jalim Singh Srimal  v.Choonee Lall Johurry (1), while holding that the  adjustmenton which the plaintiff's claim was based in that case was intime  both  under  arts. 115 and 120,  Jenkins,	 C.  J,	 hasobserved that the function of the third column of the secondschedule  is not to define causes of action but to  fix	 thestarting point from which the period of limitation is to  becounted	 ;  but	 this  observation  does  not  support	 theappellants'  case that art. 124 would govern the  suit	eventhough the third column is wholly inapplicable to it.	Thatobviously  is  not the effect of the  observations  made  inJalim Singh's case (1).The question about the nature and scope of the provisions ofart.  124  has been considered by the Madras High  Court  inThathachariar  v.  Singarachariar (2).	" If  we  take	intoconsideration  the terminology used in the three columns  ofart. 124 ", observed Srinivasa Aiyangar, J., in that case, "it  is	clear  that the nature of the suit  intended  to  becovered by that article must be a suit filed by a  plaintiffwho  claims the office from a person who at that time  holdsthe office himself ". In our opinion this view is correct.We  may	 also refer to another decision of the	Madras	HighCourt  in  which  this question	 has  been  considered.	  InAnnasami v. Adivarachari (3) a Full Bench of the Madras HighCourt was dealing with a suit in(1) (1911) 15 C.W.N. 882.      (2) A.I.R. 1928 Mad, 377.(3)  I.L.R. 1941 Mad. 275.62490which  the plaintiff had claimed an  injunction	 restrainingthe  trustee  and  the archakas of  the	 Sri  Bhuvarabaswamitemple	at Srimushnam from interfering with the	 performanceof the duties of his office of mantrapushpam of the  temple.This   suit  had  been	filed  in  1929.   The	 office	  ofmantrapushpam was a hereditary office and the plaintiff	 hadsucceeded  to  it on the death of his father in	 1906.	 Theemoluments of the office consisted of a ball of cooked	riceper  them and twelve annas per month.  It appears  that	 theplaintiff  was a Vadagalai while the archakas of the  templewere Thengalais and there was animosity between them; and asa result of this animosity the plaintiff bad never been ableto  perform the duties of his office.  It was common  groundthat  the plaintiff was the lawful holder of the office	 andthat  he  had been receiving its emoluments month  by  monthuntil 1927.  The archakas who resisted the plaintiff's claimdid not claim that they were in possession of the office  orthat they had performed the duties of the said office.	 TheFull  Bench  held  that, where a person	 is  admittedly	 thelawful	holder	of  the	 office	 and  he  is  enjoying	 itsemoluments,  he	 must  in  law	be  regarded  as  being	  inpossession  of	the office itself, especially where  no	 oneelse  is  performing the duties of the said office;  and  sounder art. 124 it was enough for the plaintiff to show	thathe  had been in receipt of the emoluments of the  office  tosave  his claim from the bar of limitation.  The Full  Benchalso  rejected the contention that under art. 120  the	suitwas  barred because it was held that every time the  trusteeand the archakas prevented the plaintiff from performing hisduties	as  a hereditary officer a. fresh  cause  of  actionarose  and so there can be no bar of limitation	 under	art.120.   It would be noticed that the basis of  this  decisionwas  that,  in	the  eyes  of  law,  the  plaintiff  was  inpossession  of the hereditary office since he was  receivingthe  emoluments	 of the said office month by month,  and  soevery act of obstruction on the part of the archakas and thetrustee	 was in the nature of a continuing wrong which	gaverise  to a fresh cause of action to the plaintiff from	timeto  time.  In other words, on the facts the Full Bench	heldthat491s.23 helped the plaintiff and saved his suit from the bar oflimitation.   As  we will presently point out  there  is  noscope for applying s. 23 to the facts of the present  cases,and  so the decision in Annasami Iyengar's case	 (1)  cannotassist the appellants.In  this connection it is relevant to consider the  decisionof the Privy Council in Jhalandar Thakur v., Jharula Das (2)in  which it was held that art. 124 was	 inapplicable.	 Thedefendant  Jharula Das had obtained a decree for money on  amortgage  which	 bad  been executed in his  favour  by	Mst.Grihimoni,  the	 widow	of the shebait of  the	temple.	  Inexecution of the said decree the defendant had caused 3	 1/2as. share of the judgment-debtor including her right in	 thenett  income of the daily offerings made before the idol  tobe  put	 up  for sale and had himself purchased	 it  at	 theauction sale.  As such purchaser he was in possession of theincome of the said share.  The judgment-debtor attempted  tochallenge the said sale by two suits but her attempts failedand the' auction purchaser continued to be in possession  ofthe  income.   On  the death  of  Mst.	 Grihimoni,  BhaiajiThakur, who succeeded to the office of the shebait, sued thedefendant  for	possession of certain lands  and  claimed  adeclaration  that he was entitled to receive the 3  1/2	 as.share  of the nett income from the offerings to	 the  templewith  other  reliefs.	This  claim  was  resisted  by	 thedefendant  Jharula Das.	 In regard to the plaintiff's  claimin  respect of the said 3 1/2 as share, the High  Court	 hadheld  that  art. 124 applied and that the claim	 was  barredunder  the said article.  That is why the decree  passed  bythe trial court in favour of the plaintiff in respect of thesaid  income was reversed by the High Court.  This  decisionwas challenged by the plaintiff before the Privy Council andit was urged on his behalf that art. 124 did not apply.	 ThePrivy Council upheld this contention.  It was clear that theoffice of the shebait of the temple was a hereditary  officewhich  could  not be held by anyone who was  not  a  BrahminPanda.	 Jharula Das was not a Brahmin Panda.  He was of  aninferior caste and was not(1) I.L.R. 1941 Mad. 275.(2) (1914) I.L.R. 42 Cal. 244.492competent  to hold the office of the shebait of the  temple,or  to	provide for the performance of the  duties  of	thatoffice.	  On  these facts the Privy Council  held  that	 theappropriation from time to time by Jharula Das of the incomederivable from the said 3 1/2 as share -did not deprive Mst.Grihimoni,  and	 after	her death, Bhaiaji  Thakur,  of	 thepossession of the office of the shebait although that incomewas  receivable by them .in right of the  shebaitship.	 Thebasis  of this decision is that, on each occasion  on  whichJharula Das received and wrongfully appropriated to his	 ownuse a share of the income to which the shebait was entitled,he committed a fresh actionable wrong in respect of which  asuit could be brought against him by the shebait; but it didnot constitute him a shebait for the time being or affect inany  way  the  title  of the  office.	Thus  this  decisionemphasises  that  for  the application of  art.	 124  it  isessential that the defendant to the suit must be in  adversepossession  of the hereditary office in question.  We  must,therefore,  hold that art. 124 does not apply to  the  suitsfiled  by the appellants; and as we have  already  observed,if. art. 124 does not apply, art. 120 does.The  next  point which arises for our  decision	 is  whetherunder  art. 120 the suits are barred by	 limitation.   Underart. 120 time begins to run against the plaintiffs when	 theright  to sue accrued to them, and that naturally poses	 thequestion  as  to  when	the right  to  sue  accrued  to	 theappellants.  In deciding this question it would be necessaryto  recall briefly the material facts in regard to the	pastdisputes  between  the appellants and the  trustees.   Thesedisputes  began in 1911.  On January 31, 1911, the  trusteeswrote  a yadi (memorandum) to the Collector of Poona  askinghis permission to dismiss eleven Guravs from service.	Theyset  out in detail several items of misconduct of which	 thesaid  Guravs were guilty; and they expressed  their  opinionthat  for  the	proper	management of  the  affairs  of	 theinstitution  it was necessary to terminate the	services  ofthe  off-ending	 Guravs (Ex. 407).  On April  1,  1911,	 theCollector  sent a reply to the trustees and told them  that,as a result of the Government493Resolution  No.	 4712  passed on November  29,1864,  it	 wasunnecessary  for  the  trustees to  obtain  the	 Collector'ssanction because it was competent to the trustees to  settletheir  own affairs without any such sanction.  The  trusteesthen  met in a committee on September 18, 1911, and  decidedto  dismiss  from service the said eleven  Guravs.   In	 itsresolution the committee stated that the Guravs were violentand arrogant and it was likely that they may commit riot  atthe  time when the committee would seek to take charge	fromthem.	The committee also apprehended that the rest of	 theGuravs	would  make a common cause with those who  had	beendismissed  from	 service  and  would  refuse  to  serve	 theSansthan.   Even  so the committee decided  to	appoint	 sixBrahmins  temporarily  to perform the service,	because	 thecommittee  was prepared to allow the rest of the  Guravs  torender	service	 to the Sansthan if they were ready  to	 actaccording to the orders of the committee and were willing toenter into a formal agreement in that behalf.  In accordancewith  this  resolution the committee served  notice  on	 theeleven	Guravs	on  October  13,  1911,	 terminating   theirservices and calling upon them to hand over to the committeeall  articles  in  their charge	 and  forbidding  them	fromentering  the temple in their capacity as servants.   Noticewas  likewise served on the rest of the Guravs calling	uponthem to agree to serve the Sansthan on conditions  specifiedin  the	 notice.   These terms were not	 acceptable  to	 theGuravs	and  so,  on behalf of two  Guravs  Eknath  and	 hisbrother	 Ramachandra, notice was served on the	trustees  onOctober 26, 1911, complaining against the trustees'  conductin forcibly removing the Guravs from the temple and  therebywrongfully  denying  their rights.  The	 notice	 warned	 thetrustees  that	unless they retraced their  steps  and	gavepossession  to	the Guravs as claimed in  the  notice  legalsteps would be taken against them.This  notice  was followed by the Guravs' Suit	No.  485  of1911.  In the suit the plaintiffs claimed declaration  abouttheir  rights  of  ownership  and  asked  for  consequentialreliefs.  This claim was denied by the494trustees  who claimed the right to dismiss the	Guravs.	  Itwas alleged on their behalf that some of the plaintiffs	 hadbeen dismissed and others had resigned their employments andso  all	 of  them  had lost their  rights.   This  suit	 wasseriously  contested  but  in the end the  Guravs  lost	 and-their suit was dismissed on  January 31, 1918.The  Guravs  then preferred appeals in the  High  Court	 butthese  appeals	were also dismissed on August 3,  1921.	  Wehave  already  pointed out that, while dismissing  the	saidappeals, the High Court made certain observations about	 theGuravs'	 hereditary  rights of worship	and  suggested	thatthese rights could be adjudicated upon in a suit filed unders.  92	of  the Code.  Thus at the  time  when	the  Guravs'appeals	 were dismissed the position was that the  claim  ofownership set up by them had been rejected; but the questionas  to	whether they were entitled to the lesser  rights  ofhereditary worshippers was left open.The  Guravs then obtained forcible possession of the  templeand  that  led	to  the trustees' suit under  s.  9  of	 theSpecific  Relief  Act, No. 1075 of 1922,  on  September	 12,1922.	In this suit the trustees specifically alleged	thatthe  relationship  of  the defendants  as  servants  of	 theSansthan  had  ceased  as from	September,  1911,  and	theyaverred that the defendants had therefore no right to obtainpossession of the temple.  The defendants no doubt  disputedthis  claim  and  pleaded  that	 they  were  the  hereditaryvatandar pujari servants but their claim was negatived and adecree	for possession was passed on November 4,  1922.	  Inexecution of this decree the defendants were dispossessed.On  these  facts the High Court has held in  favour  of	 theappellants,  and rightly we think, that it was difficult  toaccept the respondents' contention that the cause of  actionfor  the present suits which were expressly based  upon	 thestatus	of the Guravs as hereditary servants arose in  1911.But,  the High Court felt no doubt that the cause of  actionto  file the present suits had accrued either  on  September12,  1922, when the trustees filed their suit under s. 9  ofthe Specific Relief Act or in any event on November 4,4951922,  when  the said suit was decreed and the	Guravs	wereconsequently  dispossessed.  In our opinion this  conclusionis  also right.	 One of the Guravs who was examined  in	 thepresent litigation has stated that, " if in any year when itis the turn of any takshim to serve, if a person outside theGurav family is appointed by the trustees, all the  takshimshave  a right to-, object ". There is also no  dispute	thatsince  the  dismissal  of eleven Guravs	 in  1911  till	 theinstitution of, the present suits none from the Gurav familyhas  served the temple except for 3 1/2 months in 1922	whenthe Guravs had wrongfully obtained possession of the temple.In  1922 the Guravs knew that their claim of  ownership	 hadbeen  rejected and that the only right which they could	 setup  was as hereditary worshippers of the temple and not	 itsowners.	 This right was specifically denied by the  trusteesin their plaint while it was specifically set up in  defenceby  the	 Guravs in their written statement; and	 the  decreethat  followed	upheld the trustees' case and  rejected	 thedefendant's  claim.   On  these	 facts	the  conclusion	  isirresistible that the right to sue accrued to the Guravs  atthe  latest  on November 4, 1922, when a decree	 was  passedunder s. 9 of the Specific Relief Act.	If not the plaint inthe  suit,  at least the decree that  followed	clearly	 andeffectively  threatened	 the Guravs'  rights  as  hereditaryworshippers  and  so  the  cause of action  to	sue  on	 thestrength of the said rights clearly and unambiguously  aroseat that time.  If that be the true position it follows	thatthe  present  suits  which have been filed  long  after	 theexpiration  of six years from 1922 are barred by time  underart. 120.It  is then contended by Mr. Rege that the suits  cannot  beheld  to  be  barred under art. 120 because  s.	 23  of	 theLimitation Act applies; and since, in the words of the	saidsection,   the	conduct	 of  the  trustees  amounted  to   acontinuing wrong, a fresh period of limitation began to	 runat  every  moment  of  time  during  which  the	 said  wrongcontinued.   Does  the conduct of the trustees amount  to  acontinuing  wrong under s. 23 ? That is the  question  whichthis  contention raises for our decision.  In  other  words,did the496cause  of  action  arise de die in them as  claimed  by	 theappellants  ? In dealing with this argument it is  necessaryto bear in mind that s. 23 refers not to a continuing  rightbut  to	 a continuing wrong.  It is the very  essence  of  acontinuing  wrong  that	 it  is	 an  act  which	  creates  acontinuing source of injury and renders the 'doer of the actresponsible  and  liable  for the continuance  of  the	saidinjury.	  If  the  wrongful act causes an  injury  which  iscomplete,  there  is  no continuing wrong  even	 though	 thedamage resulting from the act may continue.  If, however,  awrongful  act is of such a character that the injury  causedby   it	 itself	 continues,  then  the	act  constitutes   acontinuing  wrong.   In this connection it is  necessary  todraw a distinction between the injury caused by the wrongfulact  and  what may be described as the effect  of  the	saidinjury.	 It is only in regard to acts which can be  properlycharacterised  as  continuing  wrongs  that  s.	 23  can  beinvoked.  Thus considered it is difficult to hold  that	 thetrustees'  act in denying altogether the alleged  rights  ofthe  Guravs as hereditary , worshippers and in claiming	 andobtaining  possession from them by their suit in 1922 was  acontinuing  wrong.  The decree obtained by the	trustees  inthe  said litigation had injured effectively and  completelythe appellants' rights though the damage caused by the	saiddecree	subsequently continued.	 Can it be said that,  afterthe appellants were evicted from the temple in execution  ofthe said decree, the continuance of their dispossession	 wasdue  to	 a recurring act of tort committed by  the  trusteesfrom moment to moment ? As soon as the decree was passed andthe  appellants were dispossessed in execution	proceedings,their  rights had been completely injured, and though  theirdispossession continued, it cannot be said that the trusteeswere committing wrongful acts or acts of tort from moment tomoment so as to give the appellants a cause of action de diein  diem.   We think there can be no doubt  that  where	 thewrongful act complained of amounts to ouster, the  resultinginjury	to the right is complete at the date of	 the  ousterand so there would be no scope for the application of s.  23in such a case.	 That is497the view which the High Court has taken and we see no reasonto differ from it.We  would now like to refer to some of the  decisions  whichwere cited before us on this point.  The first case which isusually considered in dealing with the application of s.  23is  the	 decision of the Privy Council in  Maharani  RajroopKoer  v. Syed Abdul Hossein (1) In order to appreciate	thisdecision  it is necessary to refer, though briefly,  to	 thematerial facts.	 The plaintiff had succeeded in establishinghis  right to the pyne or an artificial watercourse  and  tothe  use of the water flowing through it except	 that  whichflowed	through the branch channel; he had, however,  failedto  prove  his right to the water in the tal except  to	 theoverflow  after the defendants as owners of  mouzah  Morahadused the water for the purpose of irrigating their own land.It  was	 found that all the obstructions by  the  defendantswere unauthorised and in fact the plaintiff had succeeded inthe  courts below in respect of all the obstructions  excepttwo which were numbered No. 3 and No. 10.  No. 3 was a khundor channel cut in the side of the pyne at a point below	 thebridge whereas No. 10 was a dhonga also below the bridge andit  consisted of hollow palm trees so placed as to draw	 offwater  in  the	pyne  for  the	purpose	 of  irrigating	 thedefendants'   lands.   It  was	in  regard  to	 these	 twoobstructions  that the question about the  continuing  wrongfell  to be considered; and the Privy Council held that	 thesaid obstructions which interfered with the flow of water tothe  plaintiff's  mehal	 were in the  nature  of  continuingnuisance as to which the cause of action was renewed de	 diein   them   so	long  as  the  obstructions   causing	suchinterference  were  allowed to continue.  That	is  why	 thePrivy  Council allowed the plaintiff's claim in	 respect  ofthese two obstructions and reversed the decree passed by theHigh  Court  in	 that behalf.  In fact the  conduct  of	 thedefendant showed that whenever he drew off water through thesaid  diversions he was in fact stealing  plaintiff's  waterand thereby committing fresh wrong every time.	Thus this isclearly not a case of exclusion or ouster.(1)  (1880) L.R. 7 I.A. 240.63498Similarly,  in Hukum Chand v. Maharaj Bahadur Singh (1)	 thePrivy Council was dealing with a case where the	 defendants'act  clearly amounted to a continuing wrong and	 helped	 theplaintiff  in  getting the benefit of s. 23.   The  relevantdispute	 in  that case	arose because  alterations  had beenmade  by the	Swetambaris in the  character of the charansin  certain shrines and the Digambaris complained that	 thesaid  alterations  amounted to an  interference	 with  theirrights.	  It had been found by the courts in India that	 thecharans	 in  the  old shrines were the	impressions  of	 thefootprints  of the saints each bearing a lotus	mark.	"TheSwetambaris  who  preferred to worship the  feet  themselveshave  evolved  another	form  of charan	 not  very  easy  todescribe accurately in the absence of models or	 photographswhich	shows  toe  nails  and	must  be  taken	 to   be   arepresentation	of  part of the foot.  This  the  Digambarisrefused	 to worship as being a representation of a  detachedpart of the human body ". The courts had also held that	 theaction of the Swetambaris in placing the charans of the saiddescription in three of the shrines was a wrong of which theDigambaris  were entitled to complain.	The  question  whichthe Privy Council had to consider was whether the action  ofthe Swetambaris in placing the said charans in three of	 theshrines was a continuing wrong or not; and in answering thisquestion  in  favour  of the plaintiffs	 the  Privy  Councilreferred  to  its earlier decision in the case	of  MaharaniRajroop Koer (2 ) and held that the action in question was acontinuing  wrong.   There  is no doubt	 that  the  impugnedaction did not amount to ouster or complete dispossession ofthe plaintiffs.	 It was action which was of the character ofa  continuing wrong and as such it gave rise to a  cause  ofaction de die in diem.	In our opinion, neither of these twodecisions can be of any assistance to the appellants.On  the other hand the decision of the Patna High  Court  inChoudhury Bibhuti Narayan Singh v. Maharaja Sir Guru MahadevAsram Prasad Sahi Bahadur(3)(1) (1933) L.R. 60 I.A. 313.   (2) (1880) L.R. 7 I.A. 240.(3) [1939] I.L.R. 19 Pat. 208.499as  well as that of the Full Bench of the Punjab High  Courtin   Khair  Mohammad  Khan  v.	Mst.   Jannat  support	 therespondents'  contention  that	where the  s,  impugned	 actamounts	 to ouster there is no scope for the application  ofs.  23 of the Limitation Act.  We are, therefore,  satisfiedthat  there  is no substance in the  appellants'  contentionthat s. 23 helps to save limitation for their suits.The  result  no doubt is unfortunate.  The  appellants	havesucceeded  in both the courts below in proving their  rightsas hereditary worshippers; but their claim must be  rejectedon the ground that they have filed their suits beyond  time.In  this court an attempt was made by the parties to see  ifthis long drawn out litigation could be brought to an end onreasonable terms agreed to by them, but it did not  succeed.In the result the appeals fail and are dismissed.  We would,however, direct that the parties should bear their own coststhroughout.Appeals dismissed.