PETITIONER:MANAK LAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:DR. PREM CHANDDATE OF JUDGMENT:06/02/1957BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  425		  1957 SCR  575ACT:Tribunal-Member	 having bias against Party-Whether  tribunalimproperly  constituted-Waiver-What  amounts  to-Effect	  ofwaiver--Failure to examine a witness-Witness no better	thanaccomplice-Effect-Professional	 misconduct   by   advocate-Measure of punishment.HEADNOTE:P filed a complaint of professional misconduct against M, anadvocate of the High Court of Rajasthan.  The Chief  justiceappointed a tribunal under the Bar Councils Act for  enquiryinto  the  complaint.  C, a senior advocate,  was  appointedchairman of the tribunal.  C had appeared once for P  beforethe  trial  Court  in the case out of  which  the  complaintarose.	 No  objection	was raised as  to  its	constitutionbefore- the tribunal.  The tribunal found M guilty of havinggot  a false stay order in favour of his clients written  bythe  clerk of the Court by improper means.  The	 High  Courtconcurred  in this finding and directed the removal  of	 M'sname  from the rolls.  It was contended on behalf of M	thatthe tribunal was not properly constituted.Held, that the constitution of the tribunal suffered from  aserious	 infirmity  in that C was appointed its	 member	 andacted as its chairman.	It is well settled that every memberof a tribunal that is called upon to try issues in  judicialor   quasi-judicial   proceedings  must	 be  able   to	 actjudicially;  and it is of the essence of judicial  decisionsand  judicial administration that judges should be  able  toact impartially, objectively and without any bias.  In	suchcases  the test is not whether in fact a bias  has  affectedthe  judgment;	the  test always is and must  be  whether  alitigant could reasonably apprehend that a bias attributableto a member of the tribunal might have operated against	 himin the final decision of the tribunal.	It is in this  sensethat it is often said that justice must not only be done butmust also appear to be done.Frome  United  Breweries Co. v. Bath justices [1926]  A.  C.586, Rex v. Sussex justices, Exparte Mc Carthy [1924] I.  K.B. 256, Rex. v. Essex justices, Ex parte Perkins [1927] 2 K.B. 475, followed.Rex  v.	 Williams, Ex Parte Phillips [1914] I.	K.  B.	6o8,explained.The  objection to the constitution of., the tribunal can  bewaived.	  Waiver  can be inferred from the  failure  of	 theparty  to take the objection only if and after it  is  shownthat the party74576knew about the relevant facts and was aware of his right  totake the objection.  Since M knew that C had appeared for  Pand  must  be  deemed to have been conscious  of  his  legalrights,	 his  failure  to  take	 the  objection	 before	 thetribunal creates an effective bar of waiver against him.Vyuyan v. Vyuyan (186I) 30 Beav. 65; 54 E. R. 8I3 relied on.Even in quasi-criminalproceedings all important and relevantevidence  must	be  laid  before the  tribunal,	 but  it  isgenerally for the prosecutor to decidewhich witnesses  arenecessary  for	the  unfolding	of  the	 case.	No   adverseinference  can	be drawn against the  complaint's  case	 forfailure	 to  examine  a witness who was no  better  than  anaccomplice.The order of the High Court removing M's name from the	rollof  advocates is fully justified.  The misconduct proved  isof  a very serious character.  Disapproval of such  unworthyconduct	  must	be  expressed  emphatically  as	 the   legalprofession  must be saved from persons who do not  feel	 anyhesitation  in	corrupting public officers by  unworthy	 andillegal means for the benefit of their clients.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION.  Civil Appeal No. 246 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and order  dated-the November 11, 1955, of the Rajasthan High Court in  CivilMisc.  Case No. 3 of 1952.C.K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, Veda Vyasa, S.K. Kapur and N. H. Hingorani, for the appellantH.J. Umrigar and T.  M. Sen, for the respondent No. 2.1957.	February 6. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyGAJENDRAGADKAR	J.-The	appellant  Sri	Manak  Lal  was	  anadvocate practising at Soiat.  A complaint was filed againsthim  under s. 13 of the Legal Practitioners Act by Dr.	PremChand Singhvi.	It was alleged that the appellant was guiltyof  professional  misconduct and the  complainant  requestedthat  suitable action be taken against him in  that  behalf.Since the appellant was not a pleader or a mukhtear but	 an.advocate  of the High Court of Rajasthan, the complaint	 wassent  for  enquiry to the tribunal nominated  by  the  Chiefjustice' of the High Court of Rajasthan under S. 10(2)577of  the	 Bar  Councils Act.  The tribunal  held	 an  enquiryrecorded evidence and came to the unanimous conclusion	thatthe  appellant	"was guilty of	professional  misconduct  inhaving	got  a	false stay order written  by  the  clerk  byimproper means and thereby he managed to take an illegal andundue advantage for his clients and therefore deserves to bepunished for the same." When this report was received by theHigh Court, the matter was argued before the Court.  In	 theresult	the High Court agreed with the findings made by	 thetribunal  and directed that the appellant should be  removedfrom  practice.	  It is against this order that	 by  SpecialLeave the appellant has come to this Court.The facts giving rise to the complaint against the appellantare  very  few.	  It  appears  that  there  was	 a   disputeconcerning  Jhalra  well  and  certain	agricultural   plotssurrounding  the well between Pukhraj and others on the	 onehand  and  Dr. Prem Chand and others on	 the  other.   Theseparties were described in the said proceedings as Party	 No.1  and	Party  No. 2 respectively.  The	 appellant  was	 thecounsel	 for  Party No. r. As a result of this	dispute	 thepolice presented a report in the court of the Sub-DivisionalMagistrate,  Sojat,  that the dispute was  likely  to  causebreach of peace and suggested that proceedings under s.	 145of the Code of Criminal Procedure should be taken.  The Sub-Divisional Magistrate drew out, a preliminary order on	July5,  1951  (Ex.	A-1).  By this order both the  parties	werecalled	upon to put in their written statements	 as  regardstheir claims to possession of the property in dispute.	 Thelearned	 Magistrate  also  passed  an  order  attaching	 theproperty in dispute pending the decision of the	 proceedingsunder s. 145.  This was followed by another order passed  onAugust 9, 1951,,that the crop which was on the field  shouldbe  auctioned,	its price deposited in court  and  the	landitself should be given for cultivation to the highest bidderfor the next year.  It appears that the hearing of the	casewas  fixed for August 21 1951.	Members of Party No. 1	wereaggrieved by these orders and on their behalf the' appellantpreferred a revision application against these orders in thecourt of the Sessions Judge, Pali, on August 13,5781951.	The appellant presented another petition before	 thelearned Sessions judge on August 29, 195 1. In this petitionit  was alleged that the crop which stood on the  fields  inquestion belonged to the cultivators Described as Party	 No.1,   that  the	crop  was  getting  spoiled  and  that	 thecultivators  would be considerably prejudiced if  they	weredispossessed-  from  their lands at that  stage.   On  theseallegations  the application prayed that an order should  bepassed	not  to	 auction the crop as well as  the  right  offuture	cultivation and that liberty should be given to	 thecultivators  to	 go to the well and to look after  the	croppending	 the  final disposal of their  revision	 applicationbefore	the learned Sessions Judge.  The  learned  Sessions,Judge was not apparently inclined to grant ex parte  interimstay  and so on the same day he directed that notice of	 therevision application should be given to the other party	 andcalled upon the applicants to furnish talbana and a copy  ofthe application.  The case then stood adjourned for  hearingon  September 6, 1951. On September 6, 1951, when  the	casewas  called  out  before the  learned  Sessions	 Judge,	 theappellant  was	present.  The learned Sessions	Judge  foundthat  the  appellant  had  not	submitted  a  copy  of	 hisapplication  as	 already directed but he was told  that	 theappellant  was submitting a copy on the same day.   That  iswhy  the learned Judge ordered that notice should be  issuedafter the said copy was filed.	The hearing of the case	 wasthen  adjourned to September 12, 1951.	So far there  is  nodispute	 about	the  facts.  There is,	however,  a  seriousdispute	  as  to  other	 events	 which,	 according  to	 thecomplainant,   happened	  on   September   6,	1951.	 Thecomplainant's  case is that, after the hearing of  the	casewas  adjourned	to' September 12, 1951, and  notice  of	 theapplication  was  ordered to be issued to Party No.  2,	 theappellant prevailed upon Shri Maghraj, clerk of the SessionsJudge's Court to prepare an actual stay order, that the saidstay  order was accordingly prepared and was got  signed  bythe  Reader of the Court.  Then the appellant  obtained	 thestay  order from Shri Sheolal the despatch clerk to whom  itwas  entrusted	by the Reader.	Armed with  this  order	 theappellant personally took579the order to the Sub-Divisional Magistrate and presented  itto him the next day.  In due course the revision applicationwas  taken up for hearing on September 12, 1951.   Since  nonotice had been served on Party No. 2 the hearing was  againadjourned  to September 22, 1951.  It is common ground	thaton  September 22, 1951, it was discovered that a  fraudulentstay  order had been issued from the office of	the  learnedSessions  Judge's  Court.  The learned Sessions	 Judge	thencalled	for explanation from Shri Maghraj and  directed	 theSub-Divisional	Magistrate to treat the letter of  September6, 1951, containing the alleged order of stay as  cancelled.It  appears  that  as a result of the enquiry  held  by	 thelearned	 Sessions  Judge,  he found that  Shri	Maghraj	 hadcommitted  a grave mistake and held that it would be  enoughif Shri Maghraj was fined Rs.  II/and administered a  severewarning to behave properly in future.  The complaint againstthe  appellant is that the appellant took an active part  inthe  commission	 of  the  fraud	 and  was  thus	 guilty	  offraudulent and grossly improper conduct in the discharge  ofhis  professional duty.	 A false order had been obtained  byhim  by	 unfair means and so he was guilty  of	professionalmisconduct.   That  in	substance is the  case	against	 theappellant.As we have already indicated, many of 'the facts alleged  inthe complaint against the appellant are not in dispute.	 Theappellant  admits  that he was present	before	the  learnedSessions  Judge on September 6, 1951.  It is not  denied  byhim  that  he  took the envelope  from	the  despatch  clerkaddressed-to the Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Sojat, and	thathe  in	fact handed over the envelope the next	day  in	 theoffice	 of  -the  Sub-Divisional  Magistrate.	 His   case,however,  is that he never approached Shri Maghraj  in	thismatter	and that he was not in any way instrumental in	get-ting  the  draft  prepared.   In  fact,	 according  to	 theappellant, he did not know the contents of the envelope	 andit was only on September 22, 1951, that he knew that a falseorder of stay had been issued by the office.of the  SessionsJudge by mistake.  Before the tribunal, (evidence was led byboth the parties The580complainant Dr. Prem Chand himself gave evidence and on	 hisbehalf	Shri  Maghraj and Shri Sheolal were  examined.	 Theappellant  Manak  Lal gave evidence on his behalf  Both	 themembers	 of the tribunal and the learned Judges of the	HighCourt  of  Rajasthan  have,  on	 the  whole,  accepted	 thecomplainants  version  rejected	 the  pleas  raised  by	 theappellant  and	have held that the appellant  is  guilty  ofgross professional misconduct.	It is this finding which, onthe  merits, is challenged before us by Shri C. K.  Daphtaryon behalf of the appellant.  Shri Dal phtary has also raisedtwo points of law in support of his argument that the  orderpassed against the appellant must be set aside.	 It -will beconvenient to deal with these points first.Shri  Daphtary contends that the tribunal appointed  by	 thelearned	 Chief	Justice of the High Court  of  Rajasthan  toenquire	 into  the alleged misconduct of the  appellant	 wasimproperly constituted and all proceedings taken before	 thetribunal,  the	report made by it and the  subsequent  orderpassed	by  the High Court pursuant to this report  are	 allinvalid.   This	 point	arises in this	way.   The  tribunalconsisted  of  three  members with Shri	 Changani  as  it,-,Chairman.  It is common ground that Shri Chhangani had filedhis vakalat on behalf of Dr. Prem Chand in proceedings unders. 145 of the Code of Criminal Procedure on August 23, 1952,and had in fact argued the case on that date.  Shri Daphtarycontends  that	since  Shri Chhangani had  appeared  in	 thecriminal  proceedings  in question for the opponent  he	 wasdisqualified  from  acting as a member of the  tribunal	 andthis  disqualification introduces a fatal infirmity  in	 theconstitution  of the tribunal itself There is some force  inthis  argument.	 It is well settled that every member  of  atribunal  that is called upon to try issues in	judicial  orquasi-judicial	proceedings must be able to act	 judicially;and it is of the essence of judicial decisions and  judicialadministration	 that	judges	should	be   able   to	 actimpartially,  objectively  and without any  bias.   In	suchcases  the test is not Whether in fact a bias  has  affectedthe judgment; the test581always	is and must be whether a, litigant could  reasonablyapprehend  that	 a  bias attributable to  a  member  of	 thetribunal  might	 have  operated against	 him  in  the  finaldecision  of the tribunal.  It is in this sense that it,  isoften said that justice must not only be done but must	alsoappear	to be done.  As Viscount Cave L. C. has observed  inFrom  United Brewerses Co. v. Bath Justices (1) " this	rulehas been asserted not only in the case of Courts of Justicesand other judicial tribunals but in the case of	 authoritieswhich,	though in no sense to be called Courts, have to	 actas  judges of the rights of others ". In dealing with  casesof bias attributed to members constituting tribunals, it  isnecessary  to make a distinction between pecuniary  interestand  prejudice so attributed.  It is obvious that  pecuniaryinterest, however small it may be in a subject-matter of theproceedings, would wholly disqualify a member from acting asa judge.  But where pecuniary interest is not attributed butinstead	 a bias is suggested, it often becomes necessary  toconsider  whether there is a reasonable ground for  assumingthe  possibility  of  a bias and whether  it  is  likely  toproduce in the minds of the litigant, or the public at largea reasonable doubt about the fairness of the  administrationof  justice.   It would always be a question of fact  to  bedecided in each case.  " The principle says Halsbury,  "nemodebet  esse judex in causaproprta sua precludes	 a  justice,who  is interested in the subjectmatter of a  dispute,	fromacting as a justice therein " (2).  In our opinion, there isand can be no doubt about the validity of this principle andwe  are prepared to assume that this principle	applies	 notonly  to  the justices as mentioned by Halsbury but  to	 alltribunals  and	bodies	which  are  given  jurisdiction	  todetermine judicially the rights of parties.In support of his argument, Shri Daphtary referred us to thedecision  in Rex v. Sussex Justices, Ex parte McCarthy	(3).In this case, the Court was dealing with a case &rising	 outof a collision between a motor(1)  [1926] A.C. 586, 590.(2)  Halsbury's Laws of England, Vol- XXI, P- 535, para 952.(3)  [1924] 1.	K. B. 256,582vehicle	 belonging to the applicant and one belonging to  W.At  the	 hearing  of the summons the  acting  clerk  to	 thejustices  was  a member of the firm of solicitors  who	wereacting	for W in a claim for damages against  the  applicantfor injuries received in the collision.	 After the  evidencewas recorded the justices retired to consider their decisionand  the  acting clerk also retired with them in  case	theyshould desire to be advised on any point of law.  The appli-cant  was  convicted  in  the  case.   This  conviction	 waschallenged  by	the  applicant on the  ground  that  it	 wasvitiated by the improper conduct of the justices in allowingthe  acting  clerk  to be associated  with  them  when	theydeliberated about the merits of the case.  An affidavit	 wasfiled  on  behalf of the justices that	they  reached  theirdecision  without consulting the acting clerk and  that	 theacting	clerk  had in fact abstained from referring  to	 thecase.	This  affidavit	 was accepted as  true	by  all	 thelearned judges who heard the case and yet the conviction wasquashed.   "The	 question  is"	observed  Lord	Hewart	C.J.whether	 the acting clerk was so related to the case in	 itscivil  aspect,	as  to be unfit to act as  a  clerk  to	 thejustices in the criminal matter" and the learned judge addedthat  "the  answer to that question depends  not  upon	whatexactly'was  done  but upon what might appear  to  be  done.Nothing	 is to be done which creates even a  suspicion	thatthere  has  been an improper interference in the  course  ofjustice." Lush J. who agreed with Lord Hewart C.J.  likewiseaccepted  the affidavit made on behalf of the  justices	 butobserved, "that they have placed themselves in an impossibleposition  by  allowing the clerk in those  circumstances  toretire	with  them into their consultation room."  The	sameprinciple  was	enunciated. with equal emphasis	 in  Rex  v.Essex  Justices, Ex parte Perking (1).	This was  a  disputebetween a husband and his wife and it appeared that the wifehad  consulted the solicitor's clerk in their  office  aboutthe preparation of a deed of separation from her husband andthe  lawyer acted in the matter for a time after  which	 sheceased to consult him.	No mention of(1)  (1927] 2 K.B. 475.583the matter was made to the solicitor himself except one veryshort  reference  to it in a weekly report from	 his  clerk.Subsequently the solicitor acted as a clerk to the  justiceswho  tried the case.  He stated in his affidavit that,	whenacting	as  a  clerk  to the justices  on  the	occasion  inquestion,  he had no knowledge that his firm had  acted	 forthe  wife and that he was in no way adverse to the  husband.It was urged that the decision of the justices should be setaside  as the justices were not properly constituted and  itappears also to have been suggested that the decision might,perhaps,   have	 been  influenced  by  a  prejudice   thoughindirectly  and	 to  a very  small  extent.   Rejecting	 theargument  that	the  decision  of  the	justices  had	beeninfluenced  even remotely by the impropriety alleged,  AvoryJ.  stated  that "though the clerk to the justices  and	 the'justices  did	not  know that his firm had  acted  for	 theapplicant's wife, the necessary, or at least the reasonable,impression,  on	 the  mind of the applicant  would  be	thatjustice was not done seeing that the solicitor for his	wifewas acting with the justices and advising' them on the hear-ing of the summons which she had taken against him."It  has, however, been urged before us by Shri	Umrigar,  onbehalf	of the Advocate-General, that this principle  shouldnot  be	 applied  to the  proceedings  before  the  tribunalappointed under the Bar Councils Act.  He contends that	 thetribunal  is  not  empowered to. pass final  orders  on	 theenquiry	 and  that the report made by the  tribunal  is,  inevery case, to be submitted to the High Court for the  finaldecision of the High Court.  We are not impressed with	thisargument.  If it is true that in judicial or  quasi-judicialproceedings justice must not only be done but must appear tobe  done to the litigating public, it is equally  true	thatwhen a lawyer is charged for professional misconduct and  isgiven the privilege of being tried by a tribunal of the	 BarCouncil, the enquiry before the tribunal must leave no	roomfor a reasonable apprehension in the mind of the lawyer thatthe tribunal may have been even indirectly influenced by anybias in the mind of any of the members of the tribunal.	  Inthe  present  case, we have no hesitation in  assuming	thatwhen75584Shri  Chhangani	 agreed	 to  work as  the  Chairman  of	 thetribunal,  he did not remember that he had appeared  againstthe appellant's clients in the criminal proceedings under s.145.  We are told that Shri Chhangani is a senior member  ofthe  Bar and was once Advocate-General of the High Court  ofRajasthan.   Besides he had not appeared in the case at	 allstages	but  had appeared only once as a senior	 counsel  toargue  the  matter.  It is, therefore, not at  all  unlikelythat Shri Chhangani had no personal contact with the  clientDr. Prem Chand and may not have been aware of the fact that,in the case from which the present proceedings arose, he hadappeared at any stage for Dr. Prem Chand.  We are,  however,inclined  to hold that this fact does not in any way  affectthe legal argument urged before us by Shri Daphtary.  It  isnot Shri Daphtary's case that Shri Chhangani actually had  abias  against  the  appellant and that	the  said  bias	 wasresponsible for the final report made against the appellant.Indeed	it is unnecessary for Shri Daphtary to advance	suchan  argument.	If  Shri  Chhangani  was  disqualified	fromworking	 as a member of the tribunal by reason of  the	factthat  he  had appeared for Dr.' Prem Chand in  the  criminalproceedings  under s. 145 in question, then it would not  benecessary  for Shri Daphtary to prove that any prejudice  infact  had  been	 caused or that	 Shri  Chhangani  improperlyinfluenced the final decision of the tribunal.	Actual proofof  prejudice in such cases may make the,  appellant's	casestronger  but such proof is not necessary in order that	 theappellant  should effectively raise the argument  that	the,tribunal was not properly constituted.Shri  Umrigar, however, contended that unless  prejudice  isactually  proved  the  challenge  to  the  validity  of	 theconstitution of the tribunal cannot be upheld and he  soughtto  rely  upon	the decision in Rex v.	Williams,  Ex  partsPhillips(1) in support of this contention.  In this case thecourt  was  dealing  with  an  application  for	 a  writ  ofcertiorari.   A baker had been charged under s. 4  of  BreadAct of 1836.  It was(1)  [1914] 1 K.B. 608.585alleged that he had sold bread otherwise than by weight	 andwas liable to be convicted under s. 15 of the Act.  In	facthe was so convicted.  Thereupon he obtained a rule nisi	 fora  writ of certiorari to quash the conviction on the  groundthat  one  of  the justices was a person  concerned  in	 thebusiness  of  a	 baker.	  Section  15  disqualified  personsconcerned in the business of a baker to act as a justice  inthe  trial of such cases.  This application for a  writ	 wasultimately  rejected  by  the Court.  The  decision  of	 theCourt,	however,  was based substantially  on  two  grounds.Channel	 J.,  who delivered the principal  judgment  of	 theCourt,	observed  that " when objection to a  conviction  istaken  merely by a member of the public and not by  a  partymore particularly aggrieved the granting of a certiorari' isdiscretionary.	Where the objection is by a party aggrieved,then,  as  a rule, a writ is issued  ex	 debito.  justitiae.This  position, however, is subject to the exception that  aparty  aggrieved  may by his conduct preclude  himself	fromtaking	objection to the jurisdiction of an inferior  Court." But it is significant that the second ground on which	 thejudgment proceeded clearly indicates that the justice  whosepresence  at the hearing was challenged under s.  15 of	 theAct  by	 the petitioner did not apparently  appear  to	fallwithin	the mischief of s. 15 of the Act at all.  "I do	 notsay",  observed Channel J., " whether the facts shown  wouldbe enough to make him a person following or concerned in thebusiness  of  a baker within the meaning of s.	15  ".	Thisconclusion was accepted by the two other learned judges.  Itwould  thus appear that the decision in this case  does	 notjustify	  Shri	Umrigar's  contention  that,  even  if	 theconstitution  of  the tribunal is held to  be  defective  orimproper, the proceedings taken before the tribunal and	 theorders subsequently passed in pursuance of the report cannotbe  successfully  challenged  unless it is  shown  that	 thedefective  constitution of the tribunal had in fact  led  tothe prejudice of the appellant.	 We would,, therefore,	holdthat  Shri  Daphtary  is right when  he	 contends  that	 theconstitution of" the tribunal appointed by the Chief Justiceof the High Court of586Rajasthan  suffered  from a serious infirmity in  that	ShriChhangani,  who	 had  appeared for Dr.	Prem  Chand  in	 thecriminal proceedings in question, was appointed a member  ofthe tribunal and in fact acted as its Chairman.The next question which falls to be considered is whether itwas  open  to the appellant to take this objection  for	 thefirst  time before- the High Court.  In other words, has  heor  has he not waived his objection to the presence of	ShriChhangani in the tribunal?  Shri Daphtary does not seriouslycontest	 the  position that the objection  could  have	beeneffectively  waived.   The alleged bias in a member  of	 thetribunal  does not render the proceedings invalid if  it  isshown that the objection against the -presence of the memberin question had not been their by the party even though	 theparty  knew  about  the circumstances  giving  rise  to	 theallegations  about  the alleged bias and was  aware  of	 hisright  to  challenge  the  presence of	the  member  in	 thetribunal.  It is true that waiver cannot always and in everycase  be  inferred merely from the failure of the  party  totake the objections Waiver can be inferred only if and afterit is shown that the party knew about the relevant facts andwas  aware of his right to take the objection  in  question.As  Sir John Romilly M. R. has observed in Vyvyan v.  Vyvyan(1)  "	waiver or acquiescence, like  election,	 presupposesthat  the  person  to be bound is  fully  cognizant  of	 hisrights, and, that being so, he neglects to enforce them,  orchooses	 one  benefit instead of another,  either,  but	 notboth, of which he might claim ". If, in the present case, itappears	 that  the appellant knew all the  facts  about	 thealleged disability of Shri Chhangani and was also aware thathe  could effectively request 'the learned Chief Justice  tonominate  some other member instead of Shri  Chhailgani	 andyet  did  not  adopt that course, it may  well	be  that  hedeliberately took a chance to obtain a report in his  favourfrom  the tribunal and when he came to know that the  reporthad  gone  against him he thought better of his	 rights	 andraised this point before the High Court for the first(1)  (1861) 30 Beav, 65, 74 54 ER. 813, 817.587time.	In  other words, though the point of law  raised  byShri  Daphtary	against the competence of the,	tribunal  besound, it is still necessary for us to consider whether	 theappellant  was precluded from raising this point before	 theHigh Court by waiver or acquiescence.From the record it is clear that the appellant never  raisedthis point before the tribunal and the manner in which	thispoint  was  raised  by him even before	the  High  Court  issomewhat  significant.	The first 'round of objection  filedby the appellant against the tribunal's report was that ShriChhangani  had	pecuniary  and	personal  interest  in	 thecomplainant, Dr. Prom Chand.  The learned Judges of the HighCourt  have found that the allegations about  the  pecuniaryinterest  of Shri Chhangani in the present  proceedings	 arewholly	unfounded and this finding has not  been  challengedbefore us by Shri Daphtary.  The learned Judges of the	HighCourt  have also found that the objection was raised by	 theappellant  before them only to obtain an order for  a  freshenquiry and thus gain time.  It may be conceded in favour ofShri  Daphtary that the judgment of the High Court does	 notin terms find against the appellant on the ground of  waiverthough	that no doubt appeare to be the substance  of  theirconclusion.  We have, however, heard Shri Daphtary's case onthe question of waiver and we have no hesitation in reachingthe  conclusion	 that  the appellant  waived  his  objectiondeliberately  and cannot now be allowed to raise  it.	ShriDaphtary  does	not contend that at the	 material  time	 theappellant did not remember the fact that Shri Chhangani	 hadappeared  for  Dr. Prem Chand in the  criminal	proceedings.Indeed such a plea cannot be raised by the appellant in viewof the affidavit which the appellant sought to place  beforeus  in	the  present  appeal.  -Under  this  affidavit,	 theappellant's  case  appears  to be that	until  lie  met	 hisadvocate  Shri	Murli Manohar for filing objections  to	 thereport of the tribunal, the appellant did not know that ShriChhangani  was legally disqualified from acting as a  memberof the tribunal.  It is obvious that this ground necessarilyimplies that the appellant knew about the facts giving588ise to the alleged disqualification of Shri Chhangani to actas  a member of the tribunal.  In substance, the  Contentionis  that though the appellant knew that Shri  Chhangani	 hadappeared  for Dr. Prem Chand in the criminal proceedings  inquestion,  he  was  not aware  that,  in  consequence,	ShriChhangani  was	disqualified  to  act as  a  member  of	 thetribunal.  It is this limited aspect of the matter which  ispressed before us by Shri Daphtary.  Shri Daphtary  contendsand  no	 doubt	rightly that if we are	satisfied  that	 theappellant did not know about the true legal position in thismatter	and  his rights arising therefrom,  his	 failure  tochallenge the appointment of Shri Chhangani on the  tribunalwould  not raise an effective plea of waiver.	However,  inour opinion, it is very difficult to accept Shri  Daphtary'sargument  that	his  client  did not  know  the	 true  legalposition or his rights until he met Shri Murli Manohar.	  Nodoubt  the appellant is a junior at the Bar but even  so  hecan  claim ten years' standing at the Bar.  Besides, he	 hadthe  assistance of a lawyer in defending him in the  presentproceedings  and  it appears extremely difficult  to  assumethat  neither  the appellant nor his lawyer  knew  that	 thepresence  of  Shri  Chhangani  in  the	tribunal  could	  beeffectively  challenged by them.  We are disposed  to  thinkthat  even a layman, not familiar with legal  technicalitiesand   equitable	 principles  on	 which	this   doctrine	  ofdisability   has   been	 based,	  would	  have	 immediatelyapprehended  that the lawyer who had appeared for  Dr.	PremChand was authorised to sit in judgment over the conduct  ofthe  appellant	and that might cause  embarassnient  to	 theappellant  and might lead to prejudice against him.  From  apurely common sense point of view of a layman, the  positionwas  patently  awkward,	 and  so,  the	argument  that	 theappellant  was	not conscious of his legal  rights  in	thismatter	appears	 to  us to be an  afterthought.	  Since	 theappellant was driven to adopt this untenable position beforethe High Court in seeking to raise this point for the  firsttime at that stage, we are not surprised that the High Courttook the view that the plea had been taken late in order, togain time and to secure a fresh enquiry in589the matter.  Since we have no doubt that the appellant	knewthe material facts and must be deemed to have been consciousof his legal rights in that matter, his failure to take	 thepresent plea at the earlier stage of the proceedings createsan effective bar of waiver against him.	 It seems clear thatthe appellant wanted to take a chance to secure a favourablereport, from the tribunal which was constituted and when  hefound that he was confronted with an unfavourable report, headopted the device of raising the present technical point.Then  Shri Daphtary sought to challenge the main  conclusionof  the	 High  Court  that  the	 appellant  was	 guilty	  ofprofessional   misconduct  on  a  preliminary  ground.	  Hecontended  that	 the  High Court  judgment  shows  that	 thelearned Judges had considered some inadmissible evidence  inthe  absence  of  the appellant and without  giving  him  anopportunity  to be heard on the said evidence and  that	 hadintroduced an infirmity in the judgment which vitiated theirfinal conclusions.  It appears from the judgment of the HighCourt  that the learned Judges sent for and looked into	 therecord	of Revision Application No. 31 of 1951 in the  Courtof the Sessions Judge, Pali, and the record of Case No.	 134of  1951  in  the Court of  the	 Sub-Divisional	 Magistrate,Sojat.	Shri Daphtary has made pointed reference to the factthat the record in Case No. 134 of 1951 was sent for by	 theHigh  Court after this matter had been argued  before  them.If we had been satisfied that the learned Judges of the HighCourt had taken into consideration material documents  whichwere not before them at the time the case was argued  beforethem,  we  would certainly have considered  Shri  Daphtary'sgrievance  more seriously.  We are, however,  not  satisfiedthat  the  grievance  made by  Shri  Daphtary  against	thisalleged	 irregularity is really justified.  The	 High  Courtjudgment  shows	 that the appellant argued before  the	HighCourt  that  he	 could	not have  been	concerned  with	 thefabrication  of	 the  false  order  because  his  subsequentconduct	 showed that he was not at all interested in  seeingthat the said order was implemented.. In fact, this argumenthas been characterised590by  the High Court as plausible but not sound.	It was	thisargument  which provoked the reply from the other side	thatin  fact  the fabricated order had been implemented  and  insupport of this reply reference was made to the	 applicationmade  by  Dr. Prem Chand and his men in which  it  had	beenspecifically alleged that the appellant's clients had  takenpossession of the crops and that they had also removed them.This application had been made on September 24, 1951, and itrequested  the	Sub-Divisional	Magistrate  to	prevent	 theappellant's  clients from taking illegal possession  of	 theland  and  removing  the  crops.   It  is  these  two  rivalcontentions  which the learned Judges of the High Court	 hadto  examine.  The judgment shows that it  was  substantiallywith  a	 view  to satisfy themselves  that  the	 applicationreferred  to by the respondent before the High Court in	 thecourse	of the argument had in fact been made that the	HighCourt  subsequently  called for and  examined  the  relevantrecords.  It may be that in the earlier part of the judgmentthe learned Judges have stated somewhat generally that	theyhad looked at the records of both the cases; but it is clearfrom  the  reasons  given by the  learned  Judges  that	 theperusal	 of the records in the said two cases had played  nopart  in  the  final decision of the High  Court.   We	are,therefore,  not satisfied that the procedure adopted by	 theHigh  Court  in dealing with this matter  suffers  from	 anyserious irregularity as a result of which their final ordersshould be set aside and a fresh hearing of the matter shouldbe ordered.Then  remains  the  question of the merits  of	the  findingrecorded by the High Court.  Shri Daphtary himself was awarethat this part of his case is bound to be weak in an  appealwhich  has been admitted on Special Leave under Art. 136  ofthe Constitution.  Both the tribunal and the High Court havemade  concurrent findings of fact against the appellant	 andit is difficult to accept the argument that this finding  of'fact  should  be  re-examined on the merits by	 us  in	 thepresent	 appeal.   We may, however, incidentally  point	 outthat  there  are  some salient features of  the	 case  whichunequivocally support the view taken by the High591Court  against the appellant.  It is common ground that	 theappellant's  clients  were not present before  the  SessionsJudge  on  September  6,  1951.	 It  is	 admitted  that	 theappellant  was	present	 and  that  he	took  the   envelopecontaining  the order to the Sub-Divisional Magistrate.	  Itmay be that, in the State of Jodhpur, lawyers practising  insubordinate courts sometimes assisted the court officers  bytaking packets containing judicial orders from one court  toanother; but, if the appellant's clients were not present inthe court, it is difficult to understand how the  fabricatedorder  came  to	 be prepared  without  instigation  by	the,appellant.   It is inconceivable that officers of the  courtwould  suo motu think of fabricating the order.	  The  orderwas intended to benefit the appellant's clients and, on	 thewhole,	it is an irresistible inference that  the  appellantmust  have corrupted the officers of the court by the  offerof  illegal consideration and induced them to fabricate	 theorder.	Shri Daphtary attempted to rely on the view taken bythe learned Sessions Judge in the enquiry which he held soonafter  he learnt about the issue of this  fabricated  order.We are free to confess that we are not at all satisfied withthis  enquiry  and  its final decision.	  However.,  we	 arereally not concerned to consider the merits of this  enquiryand we cannot attach any importance to an argument based  onthe  view  taken  by  the learned  Sessions  Judge  in	thisenquiry.   The High Court has taken the view, and  we  thinkrightly,  that	the  conduct of Shri  Loya  should  also  beexamined  as  it  is obvious that both Shri  Loya  and	ShriMaghraj were interested in persuading the Sessions Judge  totake the view that the fabrication of the order was due to amistake committed by Shri Maghraj.  The theory of a  mistakecommitted  by  Shri  Maghraj  is,  in  our  opinion,  whollyunreasonable,  if  not fantastic.  The order passed  by	 thelearned Sessions Judge on September 6, 1951, is clear beyondany doubt.  Shri Maghraj read this order and it is suggestedthat  he  misconstrued its effect.  How an  order  directingnotice of the application to the opponent along with a	copyof  the application to be served on the opponent could	everhave been construed to mean an order76592Directing the issue of stay, it is impossible to understand.Then  again, the order actually issued is elaborate  in	 itsterms  and  its	 object	 clearly was  to  require  the	Sub-Divisional Magistrate to give effect to the prayers made  bythe   appellant	 in  his  application  without	any   delay.Besides,  the endorsement made by Shri Maghraj showing	thatthe  order  had	 been  complied	 with  and  his	 silence  onSeptember  12, 1951, when the learned Sessions	Judge  foundthat  notice had not been served are very eloquent. If	ShriMaghraj	 had  committed	 an honest mistake,  he	 would	haveimmediately  reported  to the learned  Sessions	 Judge	thatnotice had not been issued and instead erroneously an  orderof  stay  had been sent in the said  proceedings.   Besides,when Shri Maghraj gave evidence in the present	proceedings,he  did	 not adhere to the theory of mistake.	His  presentversion is that he prepared the draft order at the  instanceof  the	 appellant before the case was argued  and  when  hereceived it back duly signed by the Reader Shri Loya, it wasgiven to the despatcher and from him it reached the hands ofthe  appellant.	 There is no doubt that Shri Maghraj  is  anaccomplice  and,  so like all accomplices, he has  tried  tominimise the part played by him in this transaction.  It  istrue   that   the   evidence  against	the   appellant	  issubstantially  circumstantial and there is no a	 doubt	thatthe  finding  against the appellant cannot be made  on	suchcircumstantial evidence unless the evidence is wholly incon-sistent	 with  his innocence and leads irresistibly  to	 theinference  of  his guilt.  The judgment of  the	 High  Courtshows  that the learned judges were fully conscious of	thislegal  position.  They have held that, having regard to	 allthe circumstances of the case it is impossible to hold	thatthe  fabricated	 order could have come into  existence.	 andwould  have  been despatched hurriedly	without	 the  activeassistance and collaboration of the appellant.Shri   Daphtary	 then  argued  that  the  failure   of	 thecomplainant to examine Shri Loya, the Reader, was deliberateand   he  suggested  that  adverse  inference  against	 thecomplainant should be drawn in consequence.  Indeed this wasthe only point which Shri593Daphtary placed before us seriously in regard to the  meritsof  the	 finding  recorded by the  High	 Court	against	 theappellant.   It may be conceded in favour of  Shri  Daphtarythat,  even in quasi-criminal proceedings like the  present,all important and relevant evidence must be laid before	 thetribunal;  but	this requirement is always  subject  to	 theproviso	 that it is generally for the prosecutor who  is  incharge	of  the case to decide which of	 the  witnesses	 arenecessary for the unfolding of the case.  The prosecutor  nodoubt  must  act bona fide and fairly by the court  and	 theperson	against	 whom  the proceedings	have  been  started.Acting	bona  fide, if the prosecutor takes  the  view	thatcertain witnesses need not be examined, generally the  courtwould be reluctant to draw an adverse inference against	 theprosecution.   Besides,	 in the present case,  there  is  nojustification for drawing any such adverse inference againstthe  complainant  because  Shri Loya is no  better  than  anaccomplice and it is difficult to assume that the failure ofthe complainant to examine an accomplice can ever give	riseto an adverse inference against the complainant's case.	  Ifthat be the true position, it would be idle to contend	thatthe  finding of the High Court is vitiated by reason of	 thefact that the High Court did not consider the effect of	 thecomplainant's  failure	to  examine  Shri  Loya	 before	 thetribunal.   Incidentally this point does not appear to	havebeen pressed before the High Court.  In the result, we	haveno hesitation in holding that no case has been made out	 forour  interference  with the conclusions of  the	 High  Courtunder Art. 136 of the Constitution.That  leaves  only  one point to consider and  that  is	 thecorrectness or the propriety of the order passed by the HighCourt directing the removal of the appellant's name from theroll  of legal practitioners.  Shri Daphtary  contends	thatthis  order  is unduly severe and he has appealed to  us  toconsider the fact that the appellant was a junior at the Barand  the  removal  of  his  name  from	the  roll  of  legalpractitioners  would  deprive  him  of	the  source  of	 hislivelihood.  We are not impressed with this argument at all.Unfortunately594it  appears  that  this,  is not the  first  time  that	 theappellant   has	  come	into  trouble  on  the	 ground	  ofprofessional  misconduct.   In 1952 he was suspended  for  aperiod	of two months for misappropriating some money  givento him by his clients for the payment of court fee.  This isone  fact  which  is against the  appellant.   Besides,	 themisconduct which is proved in this case is, in our  opinion,of  a very serious character.  In the administration of	 lawand  justice, lawyers have to play an important part.	Theyare, in a sense, officers of the court and as such they	 aregiven special rights and privileges.  The profession of	 lawenjoys	high and respected status and reputation of its	 ownand  this status carries with it corresponding	obligations.Naturally  the	Bar  must zealously  safeguard	the  higheststandards  of  professional  morality  and  integrity.	  Infairness  to  the Bar, we ought to add that  cases  of	thisnature are very rare but unfortunately when such cases	comebefore	the courts, the courts must take a serious  view  ofsuch  reprehensible lapses and must pass  deterrent  orders.It  is our duty to express our disapproval of such  unworthypractices  as  emphatically  as we  can	 because  the  legalprofession  must be saved from persons who do not  feel	 anyhesitation  in	corrupting public officers by  unworthy	 andillegal	 considerations	 for  the  temporary  and  immediatebenefit of their clients.  We must, therefore, hold that theorder passed by the High Court directing the removal of	 theappellant's name from the rolls is fully justified.  In	 theresult, the appeal fails and must be dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.595