PETITIONER:KAMALA DEVI	Vs.RESPONDENT:BACHU LAL GUPTADATE OF JUDGMENT:29/01/1957BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.CITATION: 1957 AIR  434		  1957 SCR  452ACT:Hindu  Law--Gift of immoveable Property by  widow-Daughter'smarriage   dowry-Ante-nuptial  Promise-Deed   executed	 andregistered   after  marriage-Validity-If  binding   on	 thereversioners- Transfer of Property Act.(IV of 1882), S. 123-Hindus Succession Act, 1956 (XXX of 1956), s. 14.HEADNOTE:In  fulfilment	of  an	ante-nuptial  promise  made  on	 theoccasion  of the settlement of the terms of marriage of	 herdaughter,  a Hindu widow, governed by the Benares School  ofHindu Law, executed a registered deed of gift in respect  Of4  houses  allotted to her share by a partition	 decree,  infavour of her daughter as her marriage dowry about two yearsafter the marriage.  The partition decree gave her a,  rightto  the income, but no right to part with the corpus of	 theproperty  to the prejudice of the reversioners.	  Her  step-sons brought a suit for a declaration that the deed of	giftwas  void and inoperative beyond her lifetime and could	 notbind  the  reversioners.  The trial -court  found  that	 thegifted	properties constituted a reasonable portion  of	 theestate, but that the gift not having been made at453the  time  of the marriage or on the occasion of  the  Gowna(Dwiragaman)  ceremony in accordance with the provisions  ofs. I 23 Of the Transfer of Property Act, was not binding  onthe  reversioners  beyond  the lifetime	 of  the  widow	 anddecreed	 the suit.  The High Court found that the widow	 hadmade the ante-nuptial promise, but that the gift having beenmade  about  two  years	 after the  marriage  or  the  Gownaceremony,  the	provisions of the Transfer of  Property	 Actrelating  to gifts stood in the way of considering the	sameas  having  been made on the occasion of  the  marriage	 butimplemented  later, and affirmed the decision of  the  trialcourt, although the gifted houses were found to constitute areasonable portion of her husband's estate.  The contentionsin  appeal on behalf of the widow and the daughter were	 (1)that  the  widow  had the power in Hindu Law,  as  it  stoodbefore	the enactment of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956,  toexecute	 the deed of gift in question and (2) that s. 14  Ofthe  said Act bad the effect of making them full  owners  ofthe property in suit.Held,  that the deed of gift in favour of the  daughter	 wasvalid in law and binding on the reversioners and the  appealmust succeed.Under the Benares School of Hindu Law, as it stood prior  tothe  enactment	of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956,  as	alsounder  the partition decree, the properties allotted to	 thewidow  constituted her widow's estate as on inheritance	 andshe had no absolute right of disposal over them.Bhugwandeen  Doobey  v. Myna Baee, (1868) II M. 1.  A,	487,referred to.Debi Mangal Prasad Singh v. Mahadeo Prasad Singh, (1912)  L.R. 39 1. A. 121, followed.In  Hindu Law the marriage of a daughter is a pious act	 andconfers	 direct spiritual benefit on the father and a  widowhas the power to make a gift of a reasonable portion of	 herhusband's  estate  as marriage dowry to the  daughter,	evenafter  the  marriage,  in  fulfilment  of  an	ante-nuptialpromise,  whether she makes the I sankalpa ' at the time  ofthe marriage or not.Ganga  Bisheshar v. Pirthi Pal, (1880) 1. L. R. 2 All.	635,disapproved.Case-law reviewed.This power of the widow is one conferred on her by Hindu Lawand  is	 not  affected by the provisions of s.	123  of	 theTransfer  of  Property Act, though the gift  to	 be  legallyeffective  must	 be made in the manner	prescribed  by	thatsection.Although  there is no doubt that sub-s. (1) Of s. 14 Of	 theHindu Succession Act, 1956, gives a retrospective  operationto  the provisions of that section so as to make  a  fermaleHindu a     454full  owner  of	 immoveable property acquired  either  at  apartition  or  by way of gift, it is not  necessary  in	 thepresent	 case to examine the true nature and scope of s.  14Of the Act.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 158 of 1953.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and decree  datedApril  6,  1950, of the Calcutta High Court in	appeal	fromoriginal  decree No. 166 of 1944 arising out of	 the  decreedated June 30, 1943, of the Court of the Subordinate  Judge,Asansol, in Title Suit No. 2 of 1942.Ramanugrah Prasad and Mohan Beharilal, for the appellants.H.   J.	 Umrigar and S. P.  Varma, for respondents  Nos.   Iand 2.1957.  January 29.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyS.   K.	 DAS J.-This is an appeal by special leave from	 thejudgment  and  decree of the High Court of  Calcutta,  datedApril  6,  1950, by which the said High Court  affirmed	 thejudgment  and  decree of the Subordinate  Judge	 of  Asansoldated June 30, 1943, in Title Suit No. 2 of 1942.  The	suitwas instituted by the four sons of one Ram Kishori Lal	Sao,a resident of Asansol in Bengal, who died in September 1927.One of the plaintiffs, Kalicharan, died during the  pendencyof  the	 suit and his heirs were brought on  the  record  asplaintiffs in his stead.  The defendants were Sumitra  Devi,widow  of  the late Ram Kishori Lal, (defendant No.  1)	 andKamala Devi, daughter of the late Ram Kishori Lal (defendant-No.  2).  The said defendants, I and 2, are the  appellantsbefore us.The  suit  was instituted for a declaration that a  deed  ofgift  dated  March  10, 1940, executed by  Sumitra  Devi  infavour of her daughter Kamala Devi, was void and inoperativebeyond	the lifetime of Sumitra Devi and was not binding  onthe  reversion.	 The following genealogical table shows	 the-relation inter se, between the parties:			    455Ram Kishori Lal3rd wife		  4th wife		5th wife				      Sumitra Devi (Deft. 1)Kalicharan(Plff.3) Rambandhu BachuLal	  Heman Laldied during pen:    (plff. 4) (Plff. 1)(Plff. 2)dency of the suit-Mst. Ram Sakhi	  (Plff. 3 gha)Satyanarain    HiralalGopal Lachmi Narain Kamala Devi(Plff.	3 Ka) (Plff. 3 Kha) (Plff- 3 Ga) (died on  I  -I-36)(Deft. 2)On his death, Ram Kishori Lal had left extensive  propertiesworth  several lakhs, including some houses in Asansol,	 twobusinesses at Howrah and Asansol, and large amounts of moneydeposited in Banks or invested in loans etc.  Shortly  afterhis  death Sumitra Devi, for herself and as guardian of	 hertwo  children,	Lachmi	Narain and Kamala,  brought  a	suitagainst her step. sons for partition of the properties	leftby her husband.	 This suit was registered as Title Suit	 No.664  of	 1927  in  the Court of	 the  Subordinate  Judge  ofAsansol.   A  preliminary decree was passed in the  suit  onJuly  22, 1933, and a final decree on June 29,	1936.	Thisdecree	provided for payment of Rs. 10,000 as  expenses	 forthe marriage of the minor daughter Kamala, in addition to  amaintenance  allowance of Rs. 50 per month to her until	 shewas  married.	Lachmi Narain, it should be noted,  died  onJanuary	 1,  1936.  By the final decree' each  of  the	sonsobtained  one-sixth share of the estate of Ram Kishori	Lal.By  reason  of the death of Lachmi Narain before  the  finaldecree, Sumitra Devi got one-third share of the estate, one-sixth  in her capacity as widow and one-sixth as the  motherof her pre-deceased son.  The allotment in favour of SumitraDevi  consisted	 mostly of house properties,  and  the	fourhouses	of  her share with which we are	 concerned  in	thislitigation  were described in a schedule to the	 plaint	 andstood on Municipal Holding Nos. 116, 17, 26 and 27 of Circle4  of  the Asansol Municipality.  The value  of	 these	fourhouses	was  found  by	the  Commissioner  at  the  time  ofpartition to be in the neighbourhood of Rs. 19,000 only.59456The marriage of Kamala Devi was settled with one Bijoy KumarSao, son of Nand Lal Sao, a retired Deputy Postmaster, PatnaGeneral	 Post Office.  The case of the appellants  was	thatthe marriage was settled at Deoghar on Shivratri day in 1938and  the plaintiffs, respondents before us, had	 no  concernwith the negotiation ; it was alleged that the terms of	 themarriage settlement included a promise by Sumitra Devi of  agift  of four houses at Asansol, worth about Rs.  20,000  asmarriage  dowry	 for  Kamala.	The  further  case  of	 theappellants  was	 that at the time of  the  marriage  itself,which  was  performed on May 10, 1938, Sumitra Devi  made  a"sankalpa" of the gift of four houses at Asansol, which	 wasaccepted  by Nand Lal Sao on behalf of Kamala, and the	giftwas  later  confirmed  on the  occasion	 of  the  Dwiragaman(Gowna)	 ceremony  which took place in December,  1938,	 andpossession  of the houses was also given to her; soon  afterthe marriage, however, Sumitra Devi feel ill and the deed ofgift was actually executed and registered on March 10, 1940,some  two  years after the marriage.  This was the  deed  ofgift which was impugned by the plaintiffs-respondents.The case of the plaintiffs-respondents was that the marriagenegotiations  took place at Asansol and did not contain	 anypromise	 of the gift of four houses as marriage dowry.	 Theplaintiffs-respondents	alleged that the  arrangements	werethat  ornaments	 worth about Rs. 5,000 were to be  given  toKamala	Devi, a sum of Rs. 800 was to be paid as  travellingexpenses  of  the  bridegroom's party,	and  gifts  of	somemoveable  properties were to be made out of the	 balance  ofthe  sum of Rs. 10,000 which was set apart for the  marriageexpenses of Kamala Devi.  The plaintiffs-respondents  deniedthat  there was any ante-nuptial promise of a gift  of	fourhouses as marriage dowry or that there was any "sankalpa" atthe time of marriage or any confirmation of the gift at	 theDwiragaman ceremony.  They alleged that Sumitra Devi,  underthe evil advice of her father and son-in-law -and to deprivethe  plaintiffs-respondents of their right, made a  gift  ofthe four houses at Asansol in favour of Kamala Devi457on the 10th March, 1940, a gift which she was not  competentunder  the  law to make.  It was alleged that the  gift	 wascollusive, fraudulent and without consideration; and in	 anyevent,	it  could not be operative beyond  the	lifetime  ofSumitra	 Devi and was not binding on the reversion,  as	 shehad  only a life interest in the corpus of the property	 andthere  was no justifying legal necessity for the  alienationmade by her.  It wag also alleged that Sumitra Devi was	 notlegally	 competent to make a gift, as marriage dowry of	 herdaughter,  of  such a big and unreasonable  portion  of	 theestate left by her husband.On  the	 aforesaid pleadings of the parties,  the  principalissues were Issues Nos. 2 and 3 which were in these terms:"2. Is the defendant No. I competent to make any gift of theproperties  mentioned in the plaint beyond her	lifetime  todefendant  No.	2 ? Is it void and inoperative	against	 theplaintiffs beyond the lifetime of defendant No. I ?3.   Is	 the  deed of gift executed by defendant  No.  I  infavour	of  defendant No. 2 with the alleged  collusive	 andfraudulent  allegations	 binding on the	 plaintiffs  on	 herdeath ?"It is necessary now to summarise the findings of the  Courtsbelow on these issues.	On the questions of fact involved inthe  two issues, the learned Subordinate Judge came  to	 thefollowing  findings  : (1) the marriage of Kamala  Devi	 wassettled at Deoghar as claimed by Mst.  Sumitra Devi and	 notAt  Asansol; (2) there was, however, no promise of any	giftby  her of four houses at Asansol either at the time of	 thesettlement  of the marriage terms at Deoghar or	 during	 themarriage  ceremony;  (3)  the  story  of  the  delivery	  ofpossession of the houses to Kamala Devi was not supported byreliable  evidence.   Basing his decision on  the  aforesaidfindings  of fact, the learned Subordinate Judge' held	thatthe interest created in favour of Sumitra Devi in respect ofthe  properties	 allotted  to her on partition	was  in	 thenature of an ordinary maintenance grant and she had no rightto alienate the same in favour of her daughter.	 Even if shehad the limited right of458disposal,  as  in  the case of a Hindu widow,  she  was	 notcompetent to execute any deed of gift, except with regard toa  reasonable  portion of the estate of her husband  at	 thetime  of the marriage of Kamala Devi or on the	occasion  ofthe  Gowna ceremony.  Though the learned  Subordinate  Judgefound that the properties given to Kamala Devi constituted areasonable portion of the estate, he held that the gift	 nothaving	been  made  at the time of the marriage	 or  on	 theoccasion of the Gowna ceremony in accordance with the provi-sions  of s. 123, Transfer of Property Act, was not  bindingon  the plaintiffs-respondents and could not operate  beyondthe  lifetime of Sumitra Devi.	He accordingly	decreed	 thesuit.The  learned  Judges  of  the  High  Court  formulated	fivequestions  of  fact,  four of which are	 important  for	 ourpurpose, and on a fresh consideration of the evidence on therecord, came to the following findings thereon: (1) a  finalsettlement of the terms of marriage was made at Deoghar	 andthe  terms which were settled between the parties were:	 (a)that  Sumitra Devi would arrange for the gift  of  ornamentsworth  about Rs. 5,000, (b) a sum of Rs. 800 would  be	paidfor  meeting the expenses of travelling of the	bridegroom'sparty  from Patna to Asansol, (e) a sum of Rs. 51  would  bepaid for the Tilak ceremony and (d) a gift of four houses atAsansol, worth about Rs. 20,000, would be made in favour  ofKamala	Devi,  though  the evidence led	 on  behalf  of	 theappellants did not make it absolutely clear or specific thatthe promise related to the four particular houses which werethe   subjectmatter   of  the  subsequent  gift;   (2)	 theplaintiffs-respondents	had  nothing to do either  with	 thesettlement  of the terms of marriage or with any control  ormanagement  of	the  marriage ceremony;	 (3)  there  was  noreliable evidence that Sumitra Devi had made a " sankalpa  "of  the	 gift  of the houses when the  bride  was  given  inmarriage  and the question of confirming such a gift at	 theGowna  ceremony	 did  not therefore arise; (4)	it  was	 notproved	by  reliable  evidence that the	 possession  of	 thehouses in question, was made over to Kamala Devi before	 theactual execution of459the  deed of gift.  Relying on the decision in	Debi  MangalPrasad Singh v. Mahadeo Prasad Singh (1), the learned Judgesof the High Court pointed out that even in cases governed bythe  Mitakshara	 (the parties in this  case  are  admittedlygoverned by the Benares school of Mitakshara law) the  shareallotted  to Sumitra Devi on partition was not her  stridhanbut  stood on the same footing as property inherited by	 herfrom  her husband and that on her death the  property  wouldpass not to her stridhan heirs but to the sons or grandsons.The learned Judges then referred to the decision in ChuramanSahu  v.  Go  pi Sahu(2) and observed  that  though  it	 wascompetent for a Hindu widow, governed by the Mitakshara,  tomake a valid gift of a reasonable portion of the  immoveableproperty  of her husband to her daughter subsequent  to	 themarriage ceremony, the gift in Churaman Sahu's case was madeat  the	 time of the Dwiragaman (Gowna) ceremony  which	 wasreally	a part of the marriage ceremony, while the -gift  inthe present case was made some two years after the marriage.They then said: "In the case now before us the marriage	 andthe  Gowna ceremony took place in 1938 and the document	 wasexecuted in March 1940, the lapse of time between the two istoo  great  to describe the gift to have been  made  on	 theoccasion  of either the marriage or the Gowna ceremony.	  Noauthority  had been placed before us supporting a gift by  awidow to a daughter except at the time or on the occasion ofmarriage  ceremony.   The  ante-nuptial	 promise  cannot  beregarded  as a gift having been made on the occasion of	 themarriage.   Had it not been for the provisions contained  inthe  Transfer of Property Act governing the Law of Gifts  itmight have been possible to consider the gift as having beenmade on the occasion of the marriage, the implementation  ofwhich  was subsequent.	In view of the strict provisions  ofthe  Transfer of Property Act we can only consider the	giftto have been made at the time when the deed was executed andregistered."  On the question whether the gift in favour  ofKamala Devi by Sumitra Devi(I) (1912) L.R. 39 I.A. 121.(2) [1909] I.L.R. 37 Cal. 1.460was of a reasonable portion of her husband's properties, thelearned Judges observed: " In the present case, the value ofthe houses gifted was just above Rs. 18,000 which was  abouta  fourth of the value of each share allotted  (viz.,  aboveRs.  73,000).  Even if the provision of Rs. 10,000  made  inthe  partition decree for meeting the marriage	expenses  betaken  into  account, we cannot say that the  value  of	 thegifted houses was disproportionate or unreasonable." In	 theresult, the High Court affirmed the decision of the  learnedSubordinate Judge and dismissed the appeal preferred by	 thedefendants who are the appellants here.It is necessary to state now the contentions which have beenurged before us on behalf of the appellants, and they may beput  in two main categories-(a) contentions with  regard  tothe  findings of fact, and (b) contentions of law.   Learnedcounsel	 for  the appellants has  impeached  the  concurrentfinding	 of the Courts below that there was no " sankalpa  "or  promise of a gift of the four houses in question at	 thetime  of  the marriage ceremony which, it was  alleged,	 wasfollowed  by  a	 confirmation  of  the	gift  at  the  Gownaceremony.  The finding has been impeached on the ground of aserious	 error of record said to have been committed by	 theHigh  Court  and  on  the  ground  of  non-consideration  ofrelevant  evidence.  It has been argued before us  that	 theproper	finding	 should have been that Sumitra Devi  made  a"sankalpa " of the gift of the four houses in question afterthe  Sampradan ceremony on the occasion of the	marriage  ofKamala	Devi and that the gift was accepted by Nand  Lal  onbehalf of his minor daughter-in-law and that such a gift wasagain confirmed at the Gowna ceremony.	The main contentionsof  law are three in number: firstly, it has been  contendedthat even accepting the findings of the final Court of	factas  correct, the gift being of a reasonable portion  of	 theestate	of  Ram	 Kishori  Lal  Sao  and	 in  pursuance	 andfulfilment of an ante-nuptial agreement made by Sumitra Deviat  the	 time  of  the	final  settlement  of  the  marriagenegotiations at Deoghar, was for the spiritual461benefit of Ram Kishori Lal and valid in Hindu law; any	suchlapse of time as occurred in the execution and	registrationof the deed of gift was immaterial, if the deed of gift	 wasin fulfilment of the moral obligation flowing from the ante-nuptial	 agreement; secondly, it was suggested that  SumitraDevi got an absolute right in the properties given to her asher  share  on partition; thirdly, a reference was  made  tosection 14 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 and it has beenargued	that in view of the said provisions the	 plaintiffs-respondents  were  not entitled to the	reliefs	 which	theyclaimed.   It may be stated here that arguments in the	casehad  concluded	before	the  Court  closed  for	 the  annualvacation   in  1956  and  during  the  vacation	 the   HinduSuccession Act, 1956, came into force on June 17, 1956.	  Onan application filed by the appellants, fresh arguments wereheard  with regard to the provisions of s. 14 of  the  HinduSuccession Act, 1956.We proceed now to deal with the contentions in the order  inwhich	we  have  stated  them.	  First,  we  take  up	 thecontentions with regard to the findings of fact referred  toabove.	 It  has  been pointed out to us  that	the  learnedJudges	of the High Court made a serious error of record  indealing with the oral evidence as to the verbal gift said tohave  been made at the time of the marriage of	Kamala	Deviand  the acceptance of ,such a gift by Nand Lal,  father-in-law  of Kamala Devi.  In dealing with the oral	evidence  onthis  question, the learned Judges have said: "If  we  leaveout of account for the present the evidence of Sumitra	Deviand  Bijoy as also of Kamal, who has been contradicted on  avery  material	point by the other witnesses and  also	NandLal,  father of Bijoy, we are left with Parasuram  and	RashBehary.	  Parasuram, a tenant, happens to be present at	 thepsychological  moment  only  for  a  few  minutes  when	 theSankalpa  is  being  made." The High Court  clearly  made  amistake in dealing with the evidence of Parasuram Sharma andconfused  Parasuram Sharma (witness No. 16)  with  PashupatiSarkar (witness No. 10).  Pashupathi Sarkar was a tenant  ofSumitra Devi and it was his evidence that he went to462the  place  of marriage at about 12 midnight or 1  a.m.	 andstayed	there  for  two minutes only  and  then	 came  away.Parasuram  Sharma  (witness  No. 16) was  not  a  tenant  ofSumitra	 Devi.	 He was the Head Master of the	Indian	H.E.School	at Patna, a school where Bijoy, husband	 of  Kamala,was  a pupil for two years.  This Head Master said  that  heattended the marriage as a member of the bridegroom's  partyand  was  present when from behind the purdah  Sumitra	Devimade a "sankalpa" of the gift of four houses; this was	con-veyed  by  Ganapati  Sastri who recited	 "mantras"  and	 wasaccepted by Nand Lal.  It is unfortunate that the High Courtconfused  Parasuram Sharma (witness No. 16)  with  PashupatiSarkar	(witness  No. 10), with the  result  that  ParasuramSharma's  evidence was not properly considered by  the	HighCourt.	This defect in the consideration of the evidence  bythe  High  Court  is  undoubtedly  there.   The	 point	 forconsideration  is  if  this  is	 a  Sufficient	ground	 fordeparture  from	 the ordinary rule of this Court not  to  gobehind the findings of fact arrived at by the Courts  below.Though the mistake made is unfortunate, we do not think thatit is sufficient to disturb the finding of the Courts  belowor even to re-open the finding at this stage.  It is  worthyof  note that the learned Subordinate Judge made no  mistakeabout  Pashupati  and Parasuram.  He pointed  out  that	 thewitnesses  examined on behalf of the appellants with  regardto  the	 verbal	 gift at the time of the  marriage  and	 itsacceptance by Nand Lal, were mostly interested witnesses andnone  of  them	were  really  independent.   Even  ParasuramSharma, whose evidence has been placed before us by  learnedcounsel for the appellants, cannot be said to be  completelyindependent.   He  was invited to attend the marriage  as  amember	of  the	 bridegroom's  party and  he  said  that  heOverheard  Sumitra  Devi  saying  that	she  was  making   a"sankalpa"  of the gift of four houses as promised  evidencewhich is not of a very satisfactory nature.  There were manyother  criticisms of the evidence regarding the verbal	giftat the time of the marriage; the learned Judges of the	HighCourt  have referred to these criticisms and  they  acceptedsome of them, One			    463of  the	 criticisms which greatly weighed with	the  learnedSubordinate  Judge was the absence of any reference  to	 thegift  of  four houses in contemporaneous  Court	 proceedingswith regard to the withdrawal of Rs. 10,000 by Sumitra Devi,the sum which was set apart by the partition decree for	 themarriage  expenses of Kamala Devi.  This criticism was	not,however,  fully accepted by the learned Judges of  the	HighCourt  who  placed greater reliance on the evidence  of	 RaiSaheb  Jogendra Nath Roy (witness No. 14) who was  the	mostrespectable  and reliable witness examined on behalf of	 theappellants.   The  evidence of this- witness  supported	 theevidence  of  Sumitra Devi with regard to the  promise	maderegarding the gift of four Asansol houses at the time of thesettlement  of marriage negotiations at Deoghar.  There	 canbe  no	doubt that Rai Saheb Jogendra Nath Roy	was  a	veryrespectable witness and had no reasons to tell lies.  Thoughhe supported that part of the evidence of Sumitra Devi whichrelated	 to the promise of a gift of four houses at  Asansolat the time of the marriage negotiations at Deoghar, he madeno  statement  about a verbal gift having been made  at	 thetime of the marriage itself.  The witness said that he	wentto  Sumitra Devi's house on the evening of the marriage	 andstayed for fifteen to twenty-five minutes only.	 He  furthersaid  that  he was not present at the time of  the  marriageceremony.   It	may, therefore, be that Rai  Saheb  JogendraNath  Roy was not present at the time when the	verbal	giftwas alleged to have been made.By  far and large, the learned Judges of the High Court	 didexamine	 with  care  the oral evidence with  regard  to	 thealleged verbal gift at the time of the marriage and but	 forthe  unfortunate  confusion  between  Parasuram	 Sharma	 andPashupati Sarkar, we do not think that the considerstion  ofthe  oral  evidence by the High Court is open to  any  otherserious criticism.  The learned Judges rightly pointed out aserious	 discrepancy which existed between the	evidence  ofKamal  Narayan Pandey (witness No. 8), who is said  to	haveacted  as the priest for the marriage, and the	evidence  ofother witnesses with regard to the "lagan" or time 6o60464of  marriage.	Taking	all these  circumstances  into	con-sideration,  we do not think that we shall be  justified  ingoing  behind the finding of the Courts below that  )la	 theappellants had failed to prove by satisfactory evidence thatMst.  Sumitra Devi made a verbal gift of the four houses  inquestion at the time of the marriage of her daughter  KamalaDevi and that such a gift was accepted by Nand Lal on behalfof  his minor daughterin-law.  In view of this finding,	 thequestion  as to whether the gift was again confirmed at	 thetime of the Gowna ceremony does not really arise.  There canbe  no	confirmation  of an act which did  not	itself	takeplace.As  the appellants have impeached the finding of the  Courtsbelow with regard to the verbal gift said to have been	madeat  the	 time  of the marriage, the  respondents  have	alsoimpeached  before us the finding of the High Court about  anante-nuptial  agreement said to have been made	at  Deoghar.It has been contended by learned counsel for the respondentsthat  there were no compelling reasons for the	High  Court,which	was  the  appellate  Court,  to	 differ	  from	 theappreciation of the oral evidence by the learned SubordinateJudge,	who had the advantage of seeing the witnesses,	withregard to the question of the ante-nuptial agreement said tohave  been  made at Deoghar.  It is true  that	the  learnedSubordinate  Judge  did	 not  accept  the  evidence  of	 thewitnesses  who testified to the terms of settlement  of	 themarriage negotiations at Deoghar.  What tipped the scale  infavour	of the finding arrived at by the High Court on	thispoint  was  the	 evidence of Rai  Sahib	 Jogendra  Nath	 Roy(witness  No.  14).   The  learned  Subordinate	 Judge	gavecertain	 reasons  for  not accepting the  evidence  of	thiswitness.   The learned Judges of the High  Court  consideredthose  reasons very carefully and rightly pointed  out	thatthere  were  no	 good grounds for thinking  that  Rai  SahebJogendra Nath Roy had fallen a victim to lapse of memory  orfor holding that he was an interested witness.	The evidenceof Rai Sabeb Jogendra Nath Roy was considered in the contextof  contemporaneous Court proceedings for the withdrawal  ofRs. 10,000 and the learned Judges			    465of  the High Court accepted the explanation which Rai  SahebJogendra  Nath Roy gave for not mentioning the promise of  agift  of  four houses in Asansol in  the  application  whichSumitra Devi made for the withdrawal of the said sum of	 Rs.10,000.	 In our opinion, the finding of the High Court as toan  ante-nuptial  agreement for the gift of four  houses  atAsansol,  worth	 about Rs. 20,000, is not  vitiated  by	 anyerror  of  fact or law.	 That finding  must,  therefore,  beaccepted  as  a	 correct finding, even	though	the  learnedSubordinate Judge came to a contrary conclusion with  regardto it.Having disposed of the -contentions of fact urged before us,we proceed now to a consideration of the contentions of law.It  may	 be convenient to dispose of,  first,  the  argumentsomewhat  faintly advanced on behalf of the appellants	thateven  prior  to the enactment of the Hindu  Succession	Act,1956, Sumitra Devi had an absolute right of disposal in	 theshare  allotted	 to  her  on  partition	 in  1933-36   underMitakshara law.	 The question whether the share allotted  toa  mother on partition is stridhan or not, according to	 theBenares	 school,  was left open by their  Lordships  of	 thePrivy  Council	in Bhugwandeen Doobey v. Myna  Baee(1),	 thevery  case in which they held that property inherited  by  awoman was not stridhan according to the Mitakshara.  In DebiMangal	Prasad	Singh  v.  Mahadeo  Prasad  Singh  (2),	 theAllahabad High Court, after a review of all the	 authoritieson  the subject, held that it was stridhan ; but  the  PrivyCouncil	 held that it stood on the same footing as  propertyinherited  by  a woman and that it was	not  stridhan.	 Theactual	point decided in Debi Mangal Prasad's case was	thatthere  was no substantial difference in principle between  awoman's	 property acquired by inheritance and that  acquiredby  partition.	 It  is worthy of note	that  the  partitiondecree	proceeded on the footing that Sumitra Devi would  beentitled  to the income from the properties allotted to	 herbut   should  not  be  in  a  position	to   prejudice	 thereversioners  by  destroying the  corpus.   The	 preliminarydecree	for partition stated: "The Commissioner	 is  furtherdirected to allot as little liquid(1) [1863] M.I.A.487,514.(2) (1912) L.  R. 39 I.A. 121.466cash  to  the  share of plaintiff No. 2	 (Sumitra  Devi)  aspossible  on  partition	 and as a  rule	 should	 allot	suchproperties  to	her share of which she	may  receive  incomewithout	 trouble, but may not prejudice the reversioners  bydestroying  the corpus ". It follows, therefore, that  underthe Mitakshara law and also under the partition decree, Mst.Sumitra	 Devi did not have an absolute right or interest  inthe share allotted to her on partition.	 Under the  decisionin Debi Mangal Prasad Singh v. Mahadeo Prasad Singh (1), theproperty  allotted to Mst.  Sumitra Devi on partition  stoodon  the same footing as property inherited by her  from	 herhusband.   She	had  no absolute right of  disposal  of	 theproperty.This  brings  us to a consideration of the  principal  pointargued	before	us  on behalf  of  the	appellants,  namely,whether	 Sumitra  Devi	was competent to make a	 gift  of  areasonable  portion  of	 the estate of her  husband  to	 herdaughter  Kamala, Devi as a marriage dowry in pursuance	 andfulfilment  of	an ante-nuptial agreement, even	 though	 thegift  was made some two years after the	 marriage  ceremony.This  point was urged before us, as we have already  stated,prior  to  and irrespective of the enactment  of  the  HinduSuccession  Act, 1956.	The argument of learned counsel	 forthe  appellants was that Sumitra Devi was competent to	makesuch  a gift under the Hindu law, even as it stood prior  tothe enactment of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956.  We  shall,therefore,  deal  with	this  point,  irrespective  of	 theprovisions of s. 14 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956.It  may	 be stated at the very outset  that  the  concurrentfinding of the Courts below was that the gift of four housesat  Asansol,  of  a  value of  about  Rs.  19,000,  was	 notdisproportionate  or unreasonable if one had regard  to	 thelarge extent of properties left by 'Rain Kishori Lal Sao  onhis  death; this was so even taking into  consideration	 thesum  of	 Rs.  10,000 which was set apart  for  the  marriageexpenses  of Kamala Devi and which was withdrawn by  SumitraDevi.	In our opinion, that finding is correct and must  beaccepted  as  such.  Therefore, the narrow  question  is  ifSumitra	 Devi,was competent to make the gift of four  housesat(1)  (1912) L.R. 39 I.A. 121.467Asansol	 as marriage dowry to her daughter, some  two  yearsafter the marriage, in pursuance and fulfilment of the ante-nuptial agreement made at Deoghar. There are a number of decisions bearing on the question, towhich  our attention has been drawn by learned	counsel	 forthe parties, and we propose now to examine some of them.  InSardar Singh v. Kunj Behari Lal (1) it was observed:  "Therecan  be	 no doubt upon a review of the Hindu law,  taken  inconjunction  with the decided cases, that the  Hindu  systemrecognises two sets of religious acts.	One is in connectionwith   the  actual  obsequies  of  the	deceased,  and	 theperiodical performance of the obsequial rites prescribed  inthe  Hindu religious law, which are considered as  essentialfor  the salvation of the soul of the deceased.	  The  otherrelates to acts which although not essential or	 obligatory,are  still pious observances which conduce to the  bliss  ofthe  deceased's soul.  In the later cases  this	 distinctionruns   clearly	 through   the	 views	 of   the    learnedjudges..................  With reference to the first  classof  acts,  the	powers of the Hindu  female  who  holds	 theproperty  are  wider than in respect of the acts  which	 aresimply pious and if performed are meritorious so far as theyconduce	 to the spiritual benefit of the deceased.   In	 onecase, if the income of the property, or the property itself,is not sufficient to cover the expenses, she is entitled  tosell the whole of it.  In the other case, she can alienate asmall  portion of the property for the pious  or  charitablepurpose	 she  may have in view." In a very  early  decision,Cossi  Naut Bysack v. Hurroo Soondry Dossee (2), which	war,heard  by the Supreme Court at Calcutta in 1819 and  by	 theJudicial  Committee -in 1826 and quoted in Churaman Sahu  v.Gopi  Sahu (3), it was stated by Lord Gifford that  a  Hinduwidow  had  "  for certain purposes  a	clear  authority  todispose	 of  her  husband's property and  might	 do  it	 forreligious  purposes, including dowry to a  daughter."  Thereare  several texts which lay down that it is the  imperativereligious duty and a moral obligation of a father, mother orother guardian to give a girl 'in marriage(1)  (1922) L. R. 49 I.A. 383, 391.(2)  2 Morley's Digest 198.(3) (1909) I.L.R. 37 Cal. 1, 7.468before	she attains puberty.  Some of these texts have	beenquoted	in Churaman Sahu's case(1) and Ram Sumran Prasad  v.Gobind Das (2).	 According to these texts, the marriage of agirl by her father is enjoined as a religious duty in  orderto  prevent him from being degraded and visited with  sin  ;there is also direct spiritual benefit conferred upon him bysuch  a marriage.  Marriage, according to the Sastras, is  areligious act; a Sanskara for a man or woman.  According  toManu, Chapter 11, verse 67, the sacrament of marriage is  toa female what initiation with the thread is to a male.	 TheMitakshara   also   recognises	marriage  as   a   religiousobligation  for both male and female (Sundrabai Javji  DagduPardeshi  v.  Shivnarayana Ridkarna (3)).   The	 texts	alsorecognise  that gifts can be made at the time of or  on	 theoccasion  of  the  marriage  or	 any  ceremonies   connectedtherewith,  and may also be made in fulfilment of a  promisemade  in connection with the marriage; some  decisions	havegone to the extent of laying down that the moral  obligationcontinues  till	 it  is discharged  or	fulfilled  and	suchfulfilment   may   be  subsequent  to  the   marriage:	 seeMitakshara,  Chapter  1, section VII, Placitum 5 to  14.  InPlacitum  9 is quoted Manu's text: "To the  maiden  sisters,let their brothers give portions out of their own allotmentsrespectively;  to  each the fourth part of  the	 appropriateshare;	and they, who refuse to give it shall be  degraded."In  Placitum  I 1, it if; stated: "If it be  alleged,  that,here also the mention of a quarter is indeterminate, and theallotment  of property sufficient to defray the expenses  ofthe  nuptials  is all which is meant to	 be  expressed:	 theanswer is no; for there is not any proof, that the allotmentof a quarter of a share is indefinite in both codes; and thewithholding  of it is pronounced to be a sin."	In  RamasamiAyyar v.Vengidusami Ayyar    (4),   it	was  observed	withreference  to the aforesaid passages in the Mitakshara,	 andalso to certain passagein the Smriti Chandrika, wherein	 thetexts  of Manu Yajnavalkya and other Smriti writers  dealingwith the question of(1)  (1909) I.L.R. 37 Cal. 1, 7,(2)  [1926] I.L.R. 5 Pat. 646, 681.(3)  [1907] I.L.R. 32 Bom. 81.(4)  (1898) I.L.R. 22 Mad.113, 114.469allotment to be made by brothers to their maiden sisters  atthe time of partition, were commented upon, that with regardto  the	 true  meaning	of  those  texts  commentators	weredivided:  some of them held that all that the texts mean  isthat  funds required for the marriage of sisters  should  beprovided   out	 of   their  father's	estate	 but   othercommentators,  Vijnaneswara  among  them,  laid	 down	thatinclusive  of their marriage expenses sisters were  entitledto  a  provision not exceeding a fourth of what	 they  wouldhave  got  had	they been males.  It  was  further  observedtherein that it was not necessary to decide which of the twoviews  was  to be taken as law.	 Subramania  Ayyar  J.	thensaid: "Assuming that, as argued for the appellant, the	viewadvocated by Vijnaneswara and his followers is not law,	 thefact  that  so	high  an authority  as	the  author  of	 theMitakshara  propounds  a  rule	thus  favourable  to  maidendaughters ought to make one hesitate to accept as sound	 theexceedingly  limited construction which was insisted  on  onbehalf of the appellant and which can scarcely be said to bein  itself very reasonable, viz., that the texts  justify  adisbursement  out of the estate of only the price of  thingsrequired in connection with the celebration of the marriage.In my opinion, the better and sounder view is, as  contendedfor   the  respondents,	 that  the  authorities	 should	  beUnderstood  to empower a qualified owner like Thaiyyu  Ammalto  do all acts proper and incidental to the marriage  of  afemale according to the general practice of the community towhich she belongs." It should be noted that the observationsaforesaid  were	 made  in  a case where	 a  widow  gave	 herdaughter in marriage and at the time of the marriage made  agift  of  a portion of the lands inherited by her  from	 herhusband	 to'  her son-in-law, and the question	was  if	 thewidow  Thaiyyu Ammal, who was a Hindu qualified	 owner,	 hadauthority to make such a gift.In  Kudutamma  v. Narasimha Charyulu (1),  the	brother,  asmanaging  member  of  the joint family, made  a	 gift  of  areasonable  portion  of the joint family Properties  to	 hissisters.  The sisters were married in(1)  (1907) 17 M.L.J. 528, 531, 532.470the father's lifetime but were left for some reason or otherwithout	 a  marriage portion.  The gift was made  after	 thefather's death and subsequent to the marriage.	It was	heldthat the brother had authority to make the gift.  Miller  J.observed:  "If	then  a brother, finding  that	his  sister,though	married in his father's lifetime, has been  for	 anyreason	left without a marriage portion which she  ought  tohave received, it is difficult to see how he can be held  tohave exceeded his powers if he makes good the deficiency outof the family property.	 We are not required to hold that heis  bound  to do so; we are not required to  hold  that	 hisfather was bound in law to give his daughter anything at hermarriage; it is only necessary for us to hold that the	giftis  not	 in excess of the powers of the brother	 and  cannottherefore be recalled by him or avoided by his son." Wallis,J. who concurred in the judgment, observed: "In such a	casethere  was, I think, a strong moral obligation on the  jointfamily over the father as managing member to make a gift outof  the	 joint	family	property  on  the  occasion  of	 themarriages  either  to  the  girls  themselves  or  to  theirhusbands  as  a provision for them, and the  fact  that	 thefather maintained both the daughters and their husbands	 outof the joint family property until his death may be regardedas a continuing recognition of such moral obligation.	Mereneglect	 on the part of the joint family to fulfil  a  moralobligation  at	the  time of the  marriages  cannot,  in  myopinion, be regarded as putting an end to it, and I think itcontinued  until it was discharged by the deed of  gift	 nowsued  on and executed after the father's death by  his	son,the  1st defendant, who succeeded him as managing member  ofthe joint family."In Churaman Sahu's case (1), the gift was no  doubt made  onthe  occasion  of the daughter's gowna ceremony	 which	tookplace  some two years after, the marriage, and it  was	heldthat  the  gowns  ceremony was	a  ceremony  of	 importance,closely	 connected  with the marriage, though it was  not  aceremony  necessary to complete the marriage.  The gift	 wasupheld on that footing.	 What is worthy of note, however, is(1)  [1909] I.L.R. 37 Cal.  I. 7.471that  in Churaman Sahu's case(1), the decision in  Kudutammav.  Narasimha  Charyulu	 (2) was approved, and	that  was  adecision  in  which  the gift was  made	 subsequent  to	 themarriage and not on the occasion of any particular ceremony.Sundararamayya	v. Sitamma (3) is another decision  of	someimportance.  There the marriage took place about forty yearsbefore	the gift and there was no evidence that	 the  fatherhad  any intention to give any property at the time  of	 themarriage.   The question was if in those  circumstances	 thegift was valid.	 After referring to the decision in ChuramanSahu  v.  Gopi Sahu (1) and Ramasami  Ayyar  v.	 VengidusamiAyyar (4), it was observed: "We see no reason to differ fromthese  two decisions.  The father or the widow is not  boundto  giver  any property.  There may be no legal but  only  amoral  obligation.  It is also true that in the case  beforeus the father did not make any gift and discharge that moralobligation at the time of marriage.  But it is difficult  tosee why the moral obligation does not sustain a gift becauseit was not made to the daughter at the time of marriage	 butonly   some  time  later.   The	 moral	obligation  of	 theplaintiff's father continued in force till it was dischargedby  the	 gift  in 1899." The learned  Judges  referred	withapproval  to the earlier decision in Kudutamma v.  NarasimhaCharyulu (2).  The decision in Bhagwati Shukul v. Ram  JatanTewari(5) is somewhat out of' the ordinary in the sense thata  widow transferred the ,entire property inherited  by	 herfrom  her husband to a blind and crippled daughter in  orderto get her married and supply her with a handsome dowry.  Itwas  observed that no hard and fast rule could be laid	downto  define  the	 extent and limit of the  widow's  power  ofdisposing of the property inherited by her for the  marriageof her daughter.  The decision of the same case when it wentup  in Letters Patent appeal is reported as Bhagwati  Shukulv.  Ram Jatan Tewari (6).  The decision of the single  judgewas upheld on the(1) (1909) I.L.R. 37 Cal.  1. 7.  (4) (1898) I.L.R. 22	Mad.113, 113.(2)  (1907) 17 M.L.J. 528, 531, 532.  (5) A.I.R.  1922	All,381.(3) (1911) I.L.R. 35 Mad. 628, 629 (6) (1922) I.L.R. 45 All.297.61472ground	that  in order to get the girl married, it was	"  asheer  necessity " for the widow, to provide a dowry of	 Rs.500  or	 its  equivalent by the gift of	 the  property.	 Theproperty was very small in value, being in the neighbourhoodof  Rs.	 500  only, and where under  the  circumstances	 themarriage of the girl into a suitable Brahmin family,  havingregard	to  her blindness and  infirmity,  necessitated	 thespending  of the equivalent in value of that property,	thenthe alienation was a " sheer legal necessity." It should  beobserved  here that this decision is on its peculiar  facts,and  other  decisions  do  not	support	 the  view  that  analienation  of the entire property is permissible;  most  ofthe  decisions lay down that an alienation of  a  reasonableportion	 of  the  property is  only  permissible.   What  isreasonable  must  depend on the facts and  circumstances  ofeach case.In  Vettor Ammal v. Pooch Ammal (1), the gift was made	someyears after the marriage.  The gift was upheld and was	heldto  be	reasonable  being  about  one-sixth  of	 the   wholeproperty.   In Sailabala v. Baikuntha Nath (2), a gift	madeby a widow of twelve annas share of her husband's estate  onthe  occasion of the marriage of her daughter was  supportedon  the ground that it was impossible to define	 the  extentand  limit  of the widow's power of  disposing	of  propertyinherited   by	 her  because  it  must	 depend	  upon	 thecircumstances  of the disposition whenever such	 dispositionwas made.  In Ram Sumran Prasad v. Gobind Das (3), the	giftwas made on the 28th July, 1901, but the marriage took placein 1899, two years earlier.  The gift was made in  pursuanceof  an earlier promise and a verbal declaration made at	 thetime of the Gantha Pakrai (catching hold of the skirt of themother-in-law)	 performed  during  the	 marriage.   On	  anexhaustive  review  of	the  decisions,	 the  case  law	 wassummarised  -as	 follows:  'The	 case  law  on	the  subjectsummarised above fully indicates the inclination of all	 theHigh  Courts to uphold a gift by a widow of landed  propertyto her daughter or son-in-law(1)  (1911) 22 M.L.J. 321.(2)  A.I.R. 1926 Cal. 486,(3) [1926] T.L.R. 5 Pat. 646, 681.473on the occasion of the marriage or any ceremonies  connectedwith the marriage and that the promise made may be fulfilledafterwards;  and it is not essential to make a gift  at	 thetime  of  the marriage but that it may be  made	 afterwards,upon  the ground that the gift when made fulfils  the  moraland religious obligation of giving a portion of the propertyfor  the  benefit of the daughter and the  son-in-law.	 Theonly  limitation placed upon this power of making a gift  isthat  it should bear a reasonable proportion to	 the  entireproperty  of  the  deceased father and	that  it  should  bejustifiable in the circumstances of the case in terms of theprinciple  laid down in Cossi Naut Bysack  v.  HurroosoondryDossee	(1)  ". In Sithamahalakshmamma v. kotayya  (2),	 Mr.Justice	 Venkataramana	Rao summarised the case law  in	 thefollowing words: " Thus it will be seen that it is competentto a Hindu father to make a gift of a reasonable portion  ofthe  ancestral imoveable property to his  daughters  withoutreference  to the son;	It is a power vested in	 the  fatherunder  the Hindu law, which he can exercise subject  to	 therestriction  of limitations imposed on him by the said	law.The  decided  cases  have  held that  the  gift	 must  be  areasonable  one.  The question whether a particular gift  isreasonable  or not will have to be judged according  to	 thestate  of the family at the time of the gift, the extent  ofthe  family  immoveable property, the  indebtedness  of	 thefamily, and the paramount charges which the family was underan  obligation	to provide for; and after having  regard  tothose circumstances if the gift can be held to be reasonablesuch  a	 gift will be binding on the  joint  family  membersirrespective of the consent of the members of the family  Ifunder the law it is a moral obligation on the family to makea  provision  as and by way of a marriage portion  and	suchobligation  continues until it is fulfilled by a  reasonableprovision being made therefor, the fact that one of the sonshas become indebted cannot take away the power	  of	 thefather to make such a gift....In Pratap Kunwar	  v.	 RajBahadur Singh	    (3)the marriage took(1) 2 Morley's Digest 198.	(3) A.I.R. 1943 Oudh 316.(2)  A.L.R. 1936 Mad. 825, 827,474place.	in 1923 and the gift was made in 1926.	 After	heldthat  examining	 the evidence the learned Judges  Mst.	 RajRuer, the widow in question, did not make any "sankalpa"  ofthe gift of fifteen villages at the on behalf of the time ofher daughter's marriage.  On behalf of the plaintiff it	 wasargued	before them that a Hindu widow could make a gift  ofher   husband's	 immoveable property v at the  time  of	 hermarriage.  The	learned Judges repelled this contention	 andheld that the gift made by  Mst.  Raj Kuer in favour of	 herdaughter and son-in-law was valid, even though she did notmake  a " sankalpa v. at the time of marriage.	In  AbhesangTirabhai  v. Raisang(1) , it was held that gifts by a  Hinduwidow  on the occasion of her daughter's marriage are  validas  they  are  understood in Hindu law	to  conduce  to	 thespiritual  benefit  of	the widow's  husband.  In  Ramalingaannavi v. Narayana Annavi(2), a father a made a gift to	 hisdaughter of a sum of Rs. 5,000 and a usufructuary mortgage.As  against  the very large number of decisions	 refered  toabove,	the  only  decision which can be said  to  strike  adissentient  note  is  the decision in	ganga  Bisheshar  v.Pirthi	Pal(3).	 That was a case in which  one	Debi  Prasadexecuted  a  deed of gift of a certain share  in  a  certainvillage,  being	 the ancestral property of  his	 family,  infavour	of the defendant ganga Bisheshar, the  father-in-lawof  his daughter, on April 25, 1872, about two	years  afterthe  marriage of the daughter. Mr. Justice Spankie  observedas  follows:  "I understand the finding of  both  the  lowerCourts	to  be	that  the transfer  was	 not  made  for	 anynecessary purpose allowed by the Hindu law.The deed of	giftappears to have been made by the father in performance of  aa  dowry  to  his daughter.  But I am  not  aware  that	 theperformace of such a promise be regarded as a lawful purposejustifying alienation alienation(1)  (1912) I4 Bom. L. R. 602.(2)  A.I.R. 1922 P. C. 201.(3) (1880) I. L. R. 2 All. 635, 638.475tinder the Hindu law.  It was not necessary for the  supportof the daughter, it was not for any religious or pious work,nor  was  it  a	 pressing  necessity.	Daughters  must	  bemaintained  until their marriage, and the expenses of  theirmarriage  must be paid.	 But in this case the gift  was	 notmade at the time of the marriage.  It was not executed untiltwo  years after the marriage." There is  no  consideration,nor  any discussion, of the texts bearing on  the  question,and  the learned Judge did not consider the alienation	fromthe  point of view that the marriage of the daughter  was  areligious  duty	 and  the  promise to make  a  gift  to	 thedaughter  as  her  marriage  portion  created  a  moral	  orreligious obligation in fulfilment of which it was competentfor  the father to execute a deed of gift in favour  of	 thedaughter of a reasonable portion of the estate.On  an examination of the decisions referred to	 above,	 thefollowing   principles	clearly	 emerge:  (1)  It   is	 theimperative,  religious	duty  and a moral  obligation  of  afather, mother or other guardian to give a girl in  marriageto a suitable husband; it is a duty which must be  fulfilledto  prevent  degradation, and direct  spiritual	 benefit  isconferred  upon the father by such a marriage. (2)  A  Hinduwidow  in, possession of the estate of her deceased  husbandcan  make  an alienation for religious acts  which  are	 notessential  or  obligatory but are  still  pious	 observanceswhich  conduce to the bliss of the deceased husband's  soul.(3)  In	 the case of essential or obligatory  acts,  if	 theincome	of  the	 property  or the  property  itself  is	 notsufficient  to cover the expenses, she is entitled  to	sellthe  whole  of it; but for acts which are  pious  and  whichconduce to the bliss of the deceased husband's soul, she canalienate a reasonable portion of the property. (4) Gifts 'bya widow of landed property to her daughter or son-in-law  onthe  occasion  of the marriage or any  ceremonies  connectedwith the marriage, are well recognised in Hindu law. (5)  Ifa  promise is made of such a gift for or at the time of	 themarriage, that promise may be fulfilled afterwards and it isnot essential to make a gift at the time of the marriage butit, may be made afterwards in fulfilment of the promise. (6)Some decisions476go  to	the  length  of holding that there  is	a  moral  orreligious obligation of giving a portion of the joint familyproperty for the benefit of the daughter and the son-in-law,and  a	gift made long after the marriage may  be  supportedupon  the ground that the gift when made fulfils that  moralor religious obligation.In the case before us, it is not even necessary to go to theextent	to  which  the decisions covered by  the  last	itemstated	above (item 6) have gone.  The finding of the  finalCourt of fact is that there was an antenuptial agreement  bySumitra Devi that she would give four houses at Asansol,  ofthe value of Rs. 20,000, to her daughter as marriage  dowry.It  was	 open to Sumitra Devi to fulfil that  promise  as  areligious  act	which conferred spiritual benefit  upon	 herdeceased husband, irrespective of the consideration  whethershe made a " sankalpa " at the time of the marriage or	not.We have already stated that we concur in the finding -of theCourts below that the gift was neither disproportionate	 norunreasonable in extent. The learned Judges of the High Court referred to s. 123  ofthe  Transfer of Property Act which lays down that  for	 thepurpose	 of  making  a	gift  of  immoveable  property,	 thetransfer must be effected by a registered instrument  signedby  or on behalf of the donor, and attested by at least	 twowitnesses.   In one part of their judgment,, they said	thatbut for the aforesaid provisions it might have been possibleto consider the gift as having been made on the occasion  ofthe  marriage, the implementation of which  was	 subsequent.In our opinion the learned Judges of the High Court were  inerror  with regard to the scope and effect of s. 123 of	 theTransfer  of Property Act.  It is true that a -gift  becomeslegally	 effective  only  when a  registered  instrument  isexecuted  in the manner laid down in that section.   Section123  does  not deal with nor does it affect the power  of  aHindu widow to make an alienation of a reasonable portion ofher  husband's estate in favour of the daughter as  marriagedowry.	 That right is governed by Hindu law and it is	opento  a  widow  to make an effective gift	 in  favour  of	 herdaughter			    477subsequent to the marriage, if the conditions laid down	 ,byHindu law are fulfilled.For  the  reasons given above, we hold that  the  alienationmade by Mst.  Sumitra Devi in favour of her daughter  KamalaDevi  on  March	 10, '1940, was valid  and  binding  on	 thereversioners.	The  decision  of  the	High  Court  to	 thecontrary was erroneous in law.We  now turn to the Hindu Succession Act, 1956,	 which	cameinto  force on June 17, 1956.  Section 14, on which  learnedcounsel for the appellants has relied, is in these terms:"  (1)	Any property possessed by a  female  Hindu,  whetheracquired before or after the commencement of this Act, shallbe  held by her as full owner thereof and not as  a  limitedowner.Explanation.-In this sub-section, I property' includes	bothmoveable and immoveable property acquired by a female  Hinduby  inheritance or devise, or at a partition, or in lieu  ofmaintenance  or arrears of maintenance, or by gift from	 anyperson,	 whether a relative or not, before, at or after	 hermarriage, or by her own skill or exertion, or by purchase orby prescription, or in any other manner whatsoever, and alsoany  such  property  held by her  as  stridhana	 immediatelybefore the commencement of this Act.(2)  Nothing contained in sub-section (1) shall apply to anyproperty  acquired  by way of gift or under a  will  or	 anyother instrument or under a decree or order of a civil courtor under an award where the terms of the gift, will or otherinstrument  or	the  decree,  order  or	 award	prescribe  arestricted estate in suchproperty- "There  is  no  doubt  that  by reason  of  the	use  of	 theexpression   "	 whether  acquired  before  or	 after	 thecommencement  of this Act " the section is retrospective  ineffect.	 The Explanation to the section shows that "property" includes immoveable property acquired by a female Hindu ata  partition or by gift from any person, whether a  relativeor  not, before, at or after her marriage.  The argument  oflearned	 counsel  for the appellants is	 two-fold.   He	 hascontended478'that the four houses in question are now in the  possessionof  Kamala Devi and under s. 14 Kamala Devi is a full  ownerof  the houses; the plaintiffs-respondents cannot  thereforeget   the   declaration	  which	 they	have   ,asked	for.Alternatively,	he  has contended that if  Sumitra  Devi  isstill  in possession of the houses, she also becomes a	fullowner and in that event also the plaintiffs-respondents	 arenot  entitled to the reliefs claimed.  Learned	counsel	 forthe respondents has relied on sub-section (2) of B. 14 whichsays that nothing in sub-s. (1) shall apply to any  propertyacquired  by  way  of gift, etc., where	 the  terms  of	 theinstrument or decree, etc., prescribe a restricted estate insuch  property.	  It  is  argued that  Sumitra	Devi  got  arestricted estate by the partition decree and sub-s. (1) hasno  application to that estate.	 It is further	argued	thatKamala Devi as donee could not get a larger estate than whatthe donlor had in the property, if the view of Hindu law, ascontended  for	by learned counsel for the  respondents,  isaccepted  as correct; therefore, Kamal Devi is not  entitledto the benefit of sub-s. (1) of s. 14.We do not think that it is necessary to decide this case  onthe  rival contentions presented to us with regard to a.  14of  the -Hindu Succession Act, 1956.  We have  already	heldthat under Hindu law Mat.  Sumitra Devi could make a gift infavour of her daughter as marriage. dowry, two" years  afterthe marriage, in fulfilment of the ante-nuptial promise madeby her and that. such a gift is binding on the reversioners.That being the position, it is unnecessary to decide in thiscase the true scope and effect of s.	14   of	 the   HinduSuccession Act, 1956.For  the  reasons given above, we allow the appeal  and	 setaside the judgment and decree of the Courts below.  The suitof  the	 plaintiffs-respondents must be	 dismissed  and	 theappellants will be entitled to their costs throughout.Appeal allowed.479