PETITIONER:STATE OF BIHAR	Vs.RESPONDENT:KRIPA SHANKAR JAISWALDATE OF JUDGMENT:14/10/1960BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1961 AIR  304		  1961 SCR  (2)	  1ACT:Industrial  Dispute--Conciliation  Proceedings--UnregisteredUnion--Settlement with--If binding on management--IndustrialDisputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), ss.  11(2), 12(6), 18(3)(a)and (d).HEADNOTE:A  settlement  was  arrived at	between	 the  management  ofMankatha Distillery and the workmen's union before the	con-ciliation  officer.  The Union was not registered under	 theIndian Trade Unions Act on the date of the said	 settlement.The  terms of the settlement not having been carried out  bythe  management the respondent, who was the proprietor,	 andthe manager of the said distillery were prosecuted and	wereconvicted by the Magistrate.  The Sessions Court, on  appealby the respondent, confirmed the Magistrate's order.  On  anappeal	to the Patna High Court by the respondent  the	HighCourt  set aside the order of conviction and  acquitted	 therespondent  holding that there was no recognised  union	 andthat  because  the  conciliation  officer  had	visited	 theDistillery without giving a reasonable notice, on  18-3-1954there  could be no agreement between the proprietor  on	 oneside and the workmen as a whole on the other on the date andit was wrong to suppose that because somu workmen had signedthe settlement that it bound all the workmen:Held, that for a dispute to constitute an industrial disputeit is not a requisite condition that it should be  sponsoredby  a  recognised  union  or that  all	the  workmen  of  anindustrial  establishment  should  be  parties	to  it.	   Asettlement arrived at in course of conciliation	 proceedingsfalls within s. 18(3)(a) and (d) of the Industrial  DisputesAct and as such binds all the workmen though an unregisteredunion or only some of workmen may have raised the dispute.The  absence  of notice under s. 11(2) by  the	ConciliationOfficer does not affect the jurisdiction of the conciliationofficer and its only purpose is to apprise the establishmentthat  the person who is coming is the  conciliation  officerand  not a stranger.  Any contravention of S. 12(6)  in	 notsubmitting the report within 14 days may be a breach of dutyon the part of the conciliation officer ; it does not affectthe legality of the proceedings which terminated as providedin S. 20(2) of the Act.12Where  a fresh settlement is arrived at between the  partiesand  all disputes are settled, then " public  interest	doesnot require that the stale matter should be resuscitated ".Newspapers Limited, Allahabad v. State Industrial  Tribunal,Uttar Pradesh, [1960] 2 L.L.J. 37, referred to.Andheri	 Marol	Kurla Bus Service v. The  State	 of  Bombay,A.I.R.	[1959]	S.C.  841  and State  of  Bihar	 v.  HiralalKejrilal, [1960] 1 S.C.R. 726, approved.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 83  of1959.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated July 25, 1958,  ofthe Patna High Court in Criminal Revisions Nos. 593 and	 594of 1958 arising out of the judgment and order dated March 3,1958, of the Additional Sessions Judge, Monghyr, in CriminalAppeal No. 286 of 1956.D.   P. Singh and R. H. Dhebar, for the appellant.C.   P. Lal, for the respondent.1960.  October 14.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyKAPUR  J.-This	is  an	appeal brought	in  pursuance  of  acertificate under art. 134(1)(c) of the Constitution againstthe  judgment  and order of acquittal of the High  Court  ofPatna.There  were  certain disputes between the  workmen  and	 theManagement of Mankatha Distillery of which the proprietor isthe  respondent.   On  November 23,  1953,  a  petition	 wassubmitted on behalf of the workmen of the Distillery to	 theAssistant  Labour Commissioner, Bhagalpur, which was  signedby one Banarsi Choudhuri on behalf of himself and for and onbehalf of the workmen of the Distillery.  In this  petition,certain	 grievances  of	 the workmen  were  set	 out.	Con-ciliation  proceedings	were  started,	and  there  was	  anagreement  on  December 5, 1953, which the  High  Court	 hasdescribed as 'some sort of agreement'.On  January  12,  1954,	 an application	 was  made  for	 theregistration  of the Union of the workmen of the  Distilleryunder  the  Indian  Trade  Unions  Act,	 and  the  same	 wasregistered on March 23, 1954, under the3name  and  style of Mankaths Distillery	 Mazdoor  Panchayat.The  Distillery was closed and the workmen were	 discharged,and  thereafter on February 19, 1954, the General  Secretaryof the Mankatha Distillery Mazdoor Panchayat, even though itwas  not  registered  at  the time, sent  a  letter  to	 theManagement, protesting against the discharge of the  workmenwithout payment of compensation and objecting to the  inten-tion  of  the  employers  to  re-start	the  factory   afteremploying  other workmen.  It was also stated  therein	thatthe  workers who had been discharged, had been	working	 forsome  years and a list of such workmen was attached  to	 theletter.	 The following portion of the letter is relevant forthe purposes of this appeal:-" All the persons, named below, shall work in the factory inlegal  manner, on monthly salary on permanent basis.  It  isnot  only  hoped,  rather  fully  believed  that  you  wouldconsider the above facts and gladly accept the same.On  getting  a stisfactory reply, all the workers,  who	 hadbeen  working  in  your factory since  years,  would  reportthemselves to duty and work according to your orders ".Although  it  is addressed to the proprietors  of  the	Dis-tillery,  it  seems  to	 have been  sent  to  the  AssistantCommissioner of Labour, Bhagalpur, where it was received  onFebruary 25, 1954.  The following endorsements were made  onthis letter:-"  Discussed  with you.	 The management is  re.	 quested  toattend	conciliation proceeding on 10th March, 1954,  at  11a.m. The Union is also informed accordingly ".Another petition dated March 5,1954, was sent by the GeneralSecretary  of  the  Distillery	Mazdoor	 Panchayat  to	 theAssistant Labour Commissioner, in which the names of all thepersons	 who had been freshly employed by  the	proprietors,were  mentioned	 and  it  was prayed  that  those  who	weredischarged at the time of the closing of the factory, may bereinstated  and	 wages paid, and a request was made  to	 theAssistant Labour4and get the workmen reinstated.	 The order on this  petitionwas:-",  The parties have been called to-morrow in my office	 forconciliation.  The result of the proceeding may be awaited."On  March 18, 1954, a settlement was arrived at between	 themanagement   and  the  workers	which  is  signed   by	 theConciliation Officer appointed under s. 4 of the  IndustrialDisputes Act, 1947 (Act 14 of 1947) (hereinafter termed, forthe sake of brevity, the Act).	This document was signed  bythe  proprietor	 and the manager of the	 Distillery  and  byBanarsi	  Choudhuri,  General  Secretary  of  the   Workers'Panchayat and also by six other members of the Panchayat whowere evidently the members of the Executive Committee of thePanchayat.  The terms of the settlement were as follows:" 1. It is agreed that the workers' named in Schedule " A  "shall be taken to jobs without break in their services.2.   The  new  hands  appointed after  the  closure  of	 thefactory shall be discharged.3.   If	 three	shifts will start and  any  other  increasedopportunity of employment will be available in the  factory,the management shall employ only those workers who are	leftto-day and who had worked in August 1953 and September	1953in order of seniority.4.   Shri  Banarsi Choudhry, Balmiki Singh, Bhaso Singh	 andKaltu  (?)  Singh are accused in a case pending	 before	 theCourt  at Monghyr.  The Management agrees that if they	willbe acquitted from the court, they will be given jobs.5.   All the workers will be put in permanent basis as	theywere  previously.  The order putting them in  the  temporarybasis after the opening of the Mill is cancelled.6.   The  arrears  will be paid on monthly basis  as  beforeinstead	 of weekly basis as at present after the  re-openingof the factory.7.   The grievances raised by the workers and covered by theagreement dated the 5th December,51953,  will  be decided by the	Labour	Commissioner  Bihar,Patna and his decision shall be acceptable to and final	 forthe parties.8.   The work of the factory will be resumed immediately.9.   The workers will continue to have all the benefits	 andprivileges which are guaranteed by law or usage and custom.10.  The  workers  will not be victimised  for	their  TradeUnion activities".The  prosecution  case is that the terms of  the  settlementwere  not carried out in that the old workmen were  not	 re-employed and the newly employed workmen were not discharged.Thereupon, the respondent and the manager of the Distillery,one  Ram Narain Lal were prosecuted on a complaint filed  bythe  Labour Superintendent, Mr. L. D. Singh, after  sanctionof  the	 Government of Bihar had been  obtained.   Both	 theaccused	 persons were convicted and sentenced to a  fine  ofRs.   150   each  or,  in  default,   one   month's   simpleimprisonment.  The learned Magistrate held that there was anindustrial  dispute within the meaning of the Act, and	thatthe  conciliation  settlement dated March 18,  1954,  was  avalid settlement and the respondent failed to implement	 thefirst term of the settlement.  Against this order, an appealwas  taken  to	the  Sessions  Court  and  the	Third  Add1.Sessions  Judge	 dismissed  the appeal.	  He  confirmed	 thefindings of the learned Magistrate.Against	 this  order of the Sessions Judge,  an	 appeal	 wastaken to the High Court by the respondent only, and the HighCourt  set aside the order of conviction and  acquitted	 theaccused.  It held that there was no recognised Union, thoughthere was " some kind of a vague Union " existing, and	thatbecause the Conciliation Officer had visited the  Distillerywithout	 giving a reasonable notice, the " decision  of	 theConciliation  Officer  on  18-3-1954,  must,  therefore,  bedeemed	to be without jurisdiction ", and that there was  noagreement arrived at between the proprietor on one side	 andthe  "	labourers " as a whole on the other, and  ":  it  ispreposterous to suppose that because some labourers6had  signed the settlement that it bound all the  labourers.It  seems  to  me that there is a  serious  defect  in	thissettlement   which  is	described  as  a  decision  of	 theConciliation  Officer  dated  18-3-1954 ".  On	the  ground,therefore,  that the settlement was not a  settlement  whichwas binding on the respondent, the conviction was set aside.It  would  be an erroneous view if it were said that  for  adispute	 to  constitute	 an  industrial	 dispute  it  is   arequisite  condition  that  it	should	be  sponsored  by  arecognised  union or that all the workmen of  an  industrialestablishment should be parties to it.	A dispute becomes anindustrial  dispute  even where it is sponsored by  a  unionwhich is not registered as in the instant case or where	 thedispute	 raised	 is by some only of the workmen	 because  ineither	case the matter falls within s. 18(3)(a) and (d)  ofthe  Act.   See also Newspapers Limited,  Allahabad  v.	 TheState	Industrial   Tribunal,	Uttar  Pradesh	 (1).	 Thesettlement  of	March  18,  1954,  arrived  at	during	 theconciliation proceedings was signed by the General Secretaryand  members of the executive committee of the Union  thoughit  was unregistered at the time.  We cannot therefore	giveour accord to the decision that the settlement of March	 18,1954, was not a settlement binding between the parties.The scope and effect of s. 11(2) was raised before us and itwas  argued  that because the conciliation officer  did	 notgive any reasonable notice before he came to the  Distilleryon March 18, 1954, the settlement was not a legal settlementand  consequently  was not binding on the  parties  and	 itsbreach could not fall within the penal consequences of s. 29of the Act.  Now, s.	 11(2) provides:-" A conciliation officer or a member of a Board or Court  orthe  presiding	officer	 of  a	Labour	Court,	Tribunal  orNational  Tribunal may for the purpose of inquiry  into	 anyexisting  or  apprehended industrial dispute,  after  givingreasonable  notice,  enter  the	 premises  occupied  by	 anyestablishment to which the dispute relates ".(1)  [1960] 2 L.L.J. 37 at 38.7Section	 11 only deals with the procedure and powers of	 theconciliation  officers	and  sub-section  2  authorises	 theconciliation  officer to enter the premises occupied by	 anyestablishment  to which the dispute relates after  giving  areasonable  notice.  This notice is only for the purpose  ofentering  the premises to make an enquiry into any  existingindustrial dispute or an apprehended industrial dispute, andis  merely  to	apprise the establishment  that	 it  is	 theconciliation  officer  who  is coming and  not	an  absolutestranger who has no connection at all with the machinery setup  for	 the purposes of the Act.  The absence of  a  noticeunder s. 11(2) therefore does not affect the jurisdiction ofthe Conciliation Officer.As  to what the conciliation officer can and should  do,  iscontained  in s. 12 of the Act.	 Sub-section 1 empowers	 theconciliation officer to hold conciliation proceedings in thecase  of a public utility service after notice under  s.  22whereby	 a mandatory duty is cast upon him to do so, and  inother  disputes it is 'his discretion to  hold	conciliationproceedings  in the prescribed manner.	Under sub-s. (2)  hehas to investigate without delay the dispute in all  mattersaffecting  the	merits of the dispute, and he  can  do	suchthings	as he thinks necessary for inducing the	 parties  tocome  to  a fair and amicable settlement.   Sub-section	 (3)provides that if a settlement of the dispute is arrived	 at,a  report thereof shall be sent to the	appropriate  Govern-ment,  and  sub-s. (4) also provides for the  sending  of  asimilar	  report  to  the  appropriate	Government   if	  nosettlement is arrived at.  Sub-s. (5) deals with the  powersof  the Government when a report is received as to the	non-settlement  of the dispute, and sub-s. (6) which was  reliedupon provides:-S.   12(6) " A report under this section shall be  submittedwithin fourteen days of the commencement of the conciliationproceedings or within such shorter period as may be fixed bythe appropriate Government.Provided that the time for the submission of the report	 maybe extended by such period as may be agreed upon in  writingby all the parties to the dispute."8It  was argued that because the report had not been sent  tothe  Government within fourteen days of the commencement  ofthe conciliation proceedings, the settlement arrived at	 wasinvalid	 and  was  not binding.	  This	contention  must  berepelled  because  any contravention of s. 12(6)  may  be  abreach of duty on the part of the conciliation officer; thatdoes  not  affect  the legality	 of  the  proceedings  whichterminated  as provided in s. 20(2) of the Act.	 It  was  soheld by this Court in Andheri Marol Kurla Bus Service v. TheState of Bombay (1).  It cannot be said, therefore, that thesettlement which was arrived at on March 18, 1954, was not alegal  settlement and that a breach of it would not  attractthe penal provisions of s. 29 of the Act.After  the case was decided by the Judicial  Magistrate	 theparties	 arrived at a fresh settlement on October  6,  1956,which recited:" That this settlement made this day the 6th October,  1956,at Patna, settles all the pending grievances and/or  demandsof workmen whatsoever ".As a result of this out of the discharged workmen 25,  whosenames  are given in Appendix A attached to  the	 compromise,were reinstated with effect from October 8, 1956.  The claimwith  regard to the other discharged workmen was  withdrawn.This  settlement was accepted by the Industrial Tribunal  byan  order  dated  October 10, 1956.   This  shows  that	 alldisputes  between the parties have been settled and  workmenhave been reinstated.  In view of this in the words of SubbaRao,  J.,  in the State of Bihar v. Hiralal Kejrilal  (2)  "public	interest  does	not require that  the  stale  mattershould	be  resuscitated  ". Therefore we do  not  think  itnecessary to interfere under art. 136 with the order of	 theHigh Court.The appeal is therefore dismissed.Appeal dismissed.(1) [1969] Supp. 2 S.C.R. 734.(2) [1960] :S.C.R. 726, 736.9