PETITIONER:GREAT INDIAN MOTOR WORKS LTD.,AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THEIR EMPLOYEES AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:06/05/1959BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1186		  1960 SCR  (1)	 13ACT:Industrial  Dispute-Award against company in  liquidations--Appeal	by  managing  director	and  auction-purchaser	 notaggrieved  by  the  award-Summary  dismissal  by   AppellateTribunal--Validity--Right   of	appeal-Industrial   Disputes(Appellate Tribunal) Act, 1950(48 of 1950), S. 120-CompaniesAct 1956 (1 of 1956), s. 457.HEADNOTE:The  discharged	 employees  of the  Company  in	 liquidationraised	an industrial dispute wherein the  auction-purchaserof the Company was also impleaded as a party.  The Tribunal,inter  alia,  held  that no  relationship  of  employer	 andemployee  existed between the auction-purchaser and the	 oldstaff  who had been discharged prior to the purchase of	 thebusiness, and the reference so far as the  auction-purchaserwas  concerned was incompetent.	 The Tribunal  directed	 theliquidators to pay compensation to the discharged employees.The  liquidators  were refused sanction to appeal  from	 thesaid award by the High Court whereupon the auction-purchaserwho was also the managing director of the Company, prior  toits  liquidation,  preferred an appeal in the  name  of	 theCompany represented by himself as the managing director	 andalso  in  his  capacity	 as  the  auction-purchaser  of	 theCompany.   The	Appellate Tribunal dismissed the  appeal  inlimine as incompetent in view of the provisions Of s. 457 Ofthe  Companies Act 1956, on the ground that the	 appeal	 wasnot maintainable as it was not authorised by the High Court.Held,  that where a party to the Reference in an  industrialdispute was exonerated from its terms, and no Award was madeagainst him, he could not be said to be an aggrieved  party,thereby attracting the provisions of s. 12 of the IndustrialDisputes  (Appellate Tribunal) Act 1950, and any  appeal  byhim from the said Award will be incompetent.14 No person other than the Official Liquidator, who is  placein  charge of the affairs of the Company in the	 process  ofwinding up, is authorised with the sanction of the Court  toinstitute  any	suit,  prefer  an  appeal  or  other   legalproceedings in the name and on behalf of the Company.Held, further, that there is no inconsistency between s. 457of  the	 Companies  Act 1956 and s.  12	 Of  the  IndustrialDisputes  (Appellate Tribunal) Act 1950.  But in  construingthe   provisions  Of  S.  12  Of  the  Industrial   Disputes(Appellate Tribunal) Act 1950, if there was anything in	 theCompanies  Act,	 1956, with particular reference to  S.	 457which  was  inconsistent with the provisions  of  IndustrialDisputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act 1950, the latter Act shallprevail.Section	 457  of  the Companies Act 1956,  concerns  a	veryspecial case, it only lays down a condition precedent to thefiling	of  a case if it -has to be by the liquidator  of  acompany in the process of winding up.Section	 12 of the Industrial Disputes (Appellate  Tribunal)Act  1950 is the usual statutory provision which permits  anappeal	to  be presented to the	 Appellate  Tribunal,  whichotherwise would not lie, by any party who is aggrieved by anaward;	it does not either in express terms or by  necessaryimplication  override, abrogate or modify the provisions  Ofs.  457 Of the Companies Act 1956, nor does it do away	withthe necessity for the requisite sanction of the court  whichis  a  condition  precedent  so far  as	 the  liquidator  isconcerned  to institute any suit or proceedings in the	nameor on behalf of the company in liquidation.In  the	 instant case the appeal purported to  be  filed  onbehalf	of the Company in liquidation through  its  managingdirector was wholly incompetent ; and the second  appellant,the  auctionpurchaser,	could not be said to  the  aggrievedparty enabling him to invokes. 12 of the Act.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 447 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment -and order  datedthe  1st  August 1956 of the Labour  Appellate	Tribunal  ofIndia, Culcutta in Appeal No. Cal.-107 of 1956.D.   N. Mukherjee, for the appellants.Y.   Kumar, for the respondent.1959.  May 6. The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySINHA  J.-This appeal by special leave, is directed  againstthe order of the Labour Appellate Tribunal, dated August  1,1956, dismissing in limine the appeal			     15against the Award of the Third Industrial.  Tribunal,  datedMarch  8, 1956.	 The Great Indian Motor Works Ltd.,  now  inliquidation  (hereinafter  referred to	as  'the  Company'),represented  by one of the Managing Directors, K. D.  Nundy,is  the	 first	appellant.  The said K.	 D.  Nundy,  in	 hiscapacity  as  the  creditor of the  Company  and/or  as	 theauction-purchaser  of the Company, is the second  appellant.One  hundred  and  forty  two  employees  of  the   Company,represented by the Bus Workers' Union, are collectively	 thefirst  respondent.  The second and third respondents, C.  D.Nundy  and D. L. Dutt, are the Official Liquidators  of	 theCompany, appointed by the High Court as such.The  relevant facts are these: The Company was	incorporatedand  registered	 under the Indian Companies  Act,  1913,  in1926,  as  a  private limited company  with  its  registeredoffice	at  Calcutta.	Its  business  was  mainly  that  ofcarrying on public transport on Route No. 14 in the City  ofCalcutta,  as  also  of dealers in and	repairers  of  motorvehicles.   It	had  an authorized capital of  six  lacs  ofrupees	divided	 into 600 shares of Rs. 1,000 each,  out  ofwhich,	shares worth Rs. 4,00,000 only had  been  subscribedand paid up.  The registered ,share-holders of the  Company,were  Kristo  Das Nundy, the second  appellant,	 having	 246shares;	 Chandy	 Das  Nundy, respondent No.  2,	 having	 142shares, and Kumar Kartick Charan Mullick, holding 12 shares,each  of  the  face  value of  Rs.  1,000.   On	 account  offinancial  difficulties	 and  disputes	between	 its  share-holders,  an  application for compulsory winding up  of	 theCompany	 was  made  by the said respondent  No.	 2,  on	 theOriginal  Side in the High Court at Calcutta.  On  July	 23,1951, an order for winding up the Company was made, and	 theOfficial  Receiver was appointed the Official Liquidator  ofthe  Company.	An appeal against the order  aforesaid,	 wasdismissed on December 5, 1951, and the order for winding  upthe  Company, stood confirmed.	By an order  dated  December11,  1951,  the	 Official Receiver was	discharged  and	 therespondents 2 and 3 aforesaid, were appointed Joint officialliquidators in his place, with16power  to  sell	 the  business of the  Company	as  a  goingconcern.   In April, 1953, the list of the creditors of	 theCompany	 was settled by the Court, and the second  appellantaforesaid,  was included in the list as a creditor  for	 thelargest amount, namely, Rs. 2,35,818.  It may be added	thatthe discharged employees of the Company were not included inthe  list  of  creditors thus settled by  the  Court,  Afterseveral	 infructuous  attempts for selling the	property  byauction,  on May 4, 1954, the Court ordered the sale of	 theCompany's  business free from all  encumbrances,  out-goingsand   liabilities,  to	the  highest  bidder,	subject	  toconfirmation by the Court.  The second appellant bid for thepurchase of the business with the leave of the Court, and hewas  declared  the  highest  bidder  and  purchaser  of	 thebusiness for Rs. 1,42,500 at the sale held on June 12. 1954.The  said sale was confirmed by the Calcutta High  Court  onJuly  5, 1954.	On July 23, 1954, the  Official	 Liquidatorsissued	a  notice  terminating	the  services  of  all	 theemployees  of  the Company with effect from July  24,  1954,except	one  Assistant and one clerk,  whose  services	wereretained  until the winding up proceedings  were  completed.On  July 24, the Official Liquidators put the appellant	 No.2,  the auction-purchaser, in possession of the business  ofthe  Company,  which is now being carried on by	 the  secondappellant as the sole proprietor.AS  a result of the termination of the services of  the	 onehundred	  and  forty  two  employees  of  the  Company,	  asaforesaid, an industrial dispute was raised at the  instanceof the said employees whose list is attached to the order ofReference, dated August 26, 1954, which is in these terms:- " Whereas an Industrial dispute exists between (1)  Messrs.Great  Indian Motor Works Ltd., 33, Rowland Road,  Calcutta,represented by their Managing Directors Sri C. D. Nundy	 andSri  K. D. Nundy, (2) Official Liquidators of  the  Company,Sri  D.	 L.  Dutta and Sri C. D. Nundy,	 33,  Rowland  Road,Calcutta  and (3) Sri K. D. Nundy, Auction Purchaser of	 theCompany,   33,	Rowland	 Road,	Calcutta,  and	their	142,employees, given in the enclosed list, represented by17the  Bus  Workers' Union, 249,	Bowbazar  Street,  Calcutta,regarding the matters specified in the schedule ; And whereas it is expedient that the said dispute should bereferred to an Industrial Tribunal constituted under section7 of the Industrial--Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947);Now,  therefore,  in  exercise of the  powers  conferred  bysection	 10 of the said Act, the Governor is pleased  herebyto  refer the said dispute to the Third Industrial  Tribunalconstituted under Notification No. 592 Dis./D/12L-5/12 datedthe 23rd February, 1953 for adjudication.The said Third Industrial Tribunal shall meet at such placesand on such dates as it may direct.			  SCHEDULE1.Whether   the	  notice  dated	 23rd  July,   1954,   oftermination  of services of 142 employees with	effect	from24-7-54	  issued  by  the  Joint  Official   Liquidators,wasjustified ?2.Whether   the	 refusal  of  the  auction-purchaser   tocontinue the employment of the 142 employees was justified ?3.   What reliefs are the employees entitled to			       By  order of  the  Governor."The  employees of the Company had moved the High  Court	 fordirections to the Liquidators for the payment of their	duesfrom  the Company.  The Court, by its order dated  September8,  1954, directed the Liquidators to pay within a week	 thearrears of salary of all the workmen, and also within a weekfrom receiving sale proceeds of the auction-sale  aforesaid,to  pay the workers, in lieu of notice, one week's wages  toweekly	paid workmen, two weeks' wages to  fortnightly	paidworkmen, and one month's wages to monthly paid workmen.	 TheDirectors were to hold the balance of the sale proceeds tillfurther orders of the Court.It  will  be  noticed from the order  of  reference,  quotedabove,	that  besides the Official Liquidators,	 the  secondappellant was also impleaded as a party to the Reference, inhis  capacity as the auction-purchaser of the  Company.	  Inhis written statement before the Third18Industrial  Tribunal of West Bengal, which was in seizin  ofthe  case, the auction-purchaser, now the second  appellant,after reciting the facts and circumstances leading up to hisauction-purchase,   as	aforesaid,  contended  that  as	  anauction-purchaser,  he was not in any event liable  for	 anycompensation or dues, as claimed by the workmen; that he wasnot  bound to reinstate the old employees of the  Company  ;that  having  purchased the business free  from	 any  encum-brances,  he was not liable for the dues of the workmen,  asclaimed;  that be " had unnecessarily been made a party	 anddragged here before the Tribunal." He added that he admittedthat  he  was one of the Managing Directors of	the  Companybefore its liquidation, but with the order for	liquidation,he ceased to function as such.After hearing the parties, the Tribunal made its Award datedMarch	8,   1955.   The  Tribunal  awarded,   inter   alia,compensation  under  section  25(F)(b)	of  the	  IndustrialDisputes  Act,	1947,  and  directed  the  Company  to	 paycompensation,  within  two months from the  date  the  awardbecame enforceable, to such of the workmen as had been foundentitled  to  the  same.   It may be  noted  here  that	 theproceedings  before  the Industrial Tribunal  had  commencedwithout	 the  necessary sanction of the High  Court  in	 theliquidation  proceedings,  but during the  pendency  of	 theproceedings, the High Court, by its order dated December 20,1955,  granted	leave  to the workmen to  proceed  with	 andcontinue the proceedings against the Official Liquidators ofthe  Company.  The Industrial Tribunal,	 therefore,  furtherdirected that so far as the Liquidators were concerned,	 thecompensation  awarded to the workmen " shall be	 recoverableonly out of the assets in their hands according to law".  Sofar  as	 the  auction-purchaser	 was  concerned,  the  awardproceeded to make further directions in these terms: "  The	 auction-purchaser,  it	 has  already  been   noted,purchased  the different sections of the business  with	 thename " The Great Indian Motor Works " free from encumbrancesand all outgoings and liabilities (Vide Exts.  D and E), andthe said purchase was19confirmed  on 5th July, 1954.  After the sale was  confirmedand  before possession was taken by  the  auction-purchaser,the  Liquidators  terminated  the  employment  of  all	 theemployees (save and except the Accountant and one Clerk)  by-  a  notice dated 23rd July, 1954, with  effect  from	24thJuly,  1954.   After  such termination	of  employment,	 theauction	 purchaser obtained possession on 24th	July,  1954.At  that  time	no relationship of  employer  and  employeessubsisted.   In	 the  circumstances  the  dispute  with	 theauctionpurchaser cannot be considered to be 'industrial dis-pute'  as no relationship of employer and  employee  existed'between  the  auction purchaser and the old staff  who	 hadbeen  discharged  earlier.  Hence I agree with	the  learnedAdvocate of the auction-purchaser that the reference so	 faras.  the  auction-purchaser  is	 concerned  is	incompetent.Apart  from that, when the auction-purchaser  purchased	 thebusiness  free	from  encumbrances  and	 all  outgoings	 andliabilities  and  when	there is nothing to  show  that	 theauction-purchaser undertook at any time to maintain the	 oldstaff in his service, it cannot be said that his refusal  tocontinue  the employment of 142 employees  was	unjustified.Only when one purchases with all assets and liabilities as agoing concern, he is bound to continue the old employees  inservice and not otherwise.I award accordingly."Against	 the  said  Award which, in  terms,  was  made	onlyagainst	 the  Liquidators  and	not  against  the   auction-purchaser  aforesaid,  only  one  of  the  two	Liquidators,namely, Debendra Lall Dutt, made ail application to the HighCourt  for  necessary  directions  regarding  preferring  anappeal.	 The other Liquidator, Chandy Das Nundy, opposed thesaid  application  for	leave to appeal.   The	High  Court,thereupon,  made an order on April 30, 1956, refusing  leaveto the Liquidators to prefer an appeal from the said  Award,It  was in those circumstances that the appellants,  namely,Messrs.	  Great Indian Motor Works Ltd., represented by	 theManaging  Director, K.D. Nundy, as the first appellant,	 andK.D. Nundy, in his capacity as creditor and/or	contributoryof the said Great Indian Motor20Works Ltd. (under liquidation) and/or as auctionpurchaser ofthe Company, as appellant No. 2, filed an appeal before	 theLabour	Appellate  Tribunal  of	 India,	 on  May  3,   1956,impleading  the one hundred and forty two employees  throughthe  Bus Workers' Union, as the principal respondents,	C.D.Nundy  and  D.	L. Dutt, the  Official	Liquidators  of	 theCompany,  as proforma respondents.  As a counter-blast,	 theaforesaid  workmen of the Company filed their appeal on	 May17,  1956,  impleading	the  Company  represented  by  theirManaging  Directors,  C. D. Nundy and K. D.  Nundy,  as	 thefirst  respondent, the Official Liquidators of the  Company,D.L. Dutt and C.D. Nundy, as respondents second party,	K.D.Nundy, the auction-purchaser, as respondent-third party	 andthe  workmen not represented by the Bus Workers?  Union,  asrespondents  fourth party.  It is not necessary to  set	 outthe grounds of appeal in either of the two appeals, in	viewof   our  decision  on	the  preliminary  question  of	 themaintainability	 of  the  appeal  in  this  Court,  as	willpresently appear.The Labour Appellate Tribunal disposed of the two appeals byits order dated August 1, 1956.	 The appellants' appeal	 wasdismissed as incompetent in view of the provisions of s. 179of  Indian Companies Act, 1913, reenacted as s. 457  of	 theCompanies  Act,	 1956.	The dismissal of the appeal  on	 theground	of the appeal not being competent, was based on	 theorder  of  the	Calcutta High Court,  dated  April  30,1956,aforesaid,  refusing leave to the Liquidators to  prefer  anappeal.	  It  is  noteworthy  that  the	 appeal	 before	 theAppellate  Tribunal, was not by the Liquidators but by	K.D.Nundy as Managing Director of the Company, as also by him inhis  capacity  as  the creditor or contributory	 or  as	 theauction-purchaser  of the Company.  This aspect of the	casehas not been dealt with by the Tribunal which held that	 theappeal was not maintainable as it was not authorised by	 theHigh Court.  The employees' appeal also was dismissed as  itwas  not pressed in view of the fact that the appeal by	 theCompany stood dismissed as unauthorized.  It was against theaforesaid order of the Appellate21Tribunal,   dismissing	the  appeal  in	 limine,  that	 theappellants  aforesaid moved this Court and obtained  specialleave  to appeal, and the main ground of attack,  naturally,was  that  the	Labour Appellate Tribunal was  in  error  indismissing   the   appeal   as	unauthorised   or   as	 notmaintainable.It  is	manifest  that	we are called  upon,  in  the  firstinstance,  to decide whether the Labour	 Appellate  Tribunalhad  rightly  dismissed the appeal in limine on	 the  groundthat  the  Liquidators had failed to  obtain  the  necessarysanction of the Calcutta High Court to prefer an appeal fromthe Award of the Industrial Tribunal.  If that order of	 theAppellate  Tribunal  is	 correct, and if we  find  that	 theappellants  could  not have any locus standi  to  prefer  anappeal	of their own as distinct from that on behalf of	 theCompany, no other question would arise for determination  inthis case.  If, on the other hand, we come to the conclusionthat  order  was  erroneous,  at least	in  respect  of	 theappellants' appeal, then the appeal will have to be remandedto be re-heard by the Appellate Tribunal.It  has been urged on behalf of the appellants that in	viewof  the	 provisions  of	 s.  12, read  with  s.	 3,  of	 theIndustrial  Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act (48  of  1950)(which	was repealed by Act 36 of 1956), which governed	 themaking of appeals before the Appellate Tribunal, the  appealto  that Tribunal was competent, and should have been  beardand  determined on merits.  The provisions of ss. 3 and	 12,which we have to construe in this case, are in these terms:-" 3. The provisions of this Act and of the rules and  ordersmade  thereunder shall have effect notwithstanding  anythinginconsistent  therewith contained in any other law  for	 thetime  being in force or in any instrument having  effect  byvirtue of any such law.""  12.	 An  appeal  under this Act  against  any  award  ordecision  of an industrial tribunal may be presented to	 theAppellate Tribunal by-(i)any party which is aggrieved by the award or decision ;or22(ii)the	 appropriate Government or the Central	Government,where  it is not the appropriate Government, whether or	 notsuch -Government is a party to the dispute."We have first to determine whether there is anything in	 theIndian Companies Act, with particular reference to s. 179 ofthe Indian Companies Act, 1913, (reenacted as s. 457 of	 theCompanies   Act,  1956),  that	is  inconsistent  with	 theprovisions  of the Industrial Disputes (Appellate  Tribunal)Act,  1950 (which hereinafter will be referred 'to  as	"theAct").	 If  there is anything in those	 provisions  of	 theCompanies Act, inconsistent with the provisions of the	Act,the  latter shall prevail.  Hence, we have to  construe	 theprovisions  of s. 12 which specifically deals with  appeals.That  section  permits	an appeal to  be  presented  to	 theAppellate  Tribunal by any party which is aggrieved  by	 theaward  (omitting  the words not necessary  for	our  presentpurpose).   It	is  the usual  statutory  provision  for  anappeal,	 which	otherwise would not lie.  It  does  not	 sayeither	in express terms or by necessary  implication,	thatthose	specific  provisions  of  the  Companies  Act,	 areabrogated  or  modified.   It  does not	 do  away  with	 thenecessity of the requisite sanction of the Court so far as aLiquidator is concerned.  Under the provisions of the IndianCompanies Act, the affairs of the company under liquidation,are  placed in charge of the Official Liquidator, and  unders. 457, it is only the Liquidator who is authorized with thesanction of the Court, to institute any suit or other  legalproceedings in the name and on behalf of the company.  Thus,there  is no inconsistency between the aforesaid  provisionsof  the	 Act and the Companies Act, which only laid  down  acondition precedent to the filing of an appeal, if it has tobe,  by a Liquidator of a company in the process of  windingup.   It concerns a very special case and has no bearing  onthe  general right of appeal.  As, in the instant case,	 theCourt  refused the necessary sanction to the Liquidators  toprefer the appeal, no appeal could have been filed on behalfof the Company.	 Hence, in so far as the appeal purported tobe on behalf of the Company, through the Managing			     23Director  aforesaid,  it was wholly  incompetent.   But	 theappeal was not only by the Company as such, but also by	 thesaid K.D. Nundy as the creditor or contributory or  auction-purchaser'  of	the  Company.  So far as this  part  of	 theappeal	is concerned, it is clear that only a party. to	 theReference  aggrieved  by the Award could be a party  to	 theappeal.	  K.D.	Nundy  was not a party in  his	capacity  ascreditor  or as contributory.  He was impleaded, as  alreadyindicated as a party to the Reference in his capacity as theauction-purchaser of the business of the Company.  So far asthat  capacity is concerned, it is clear from the  order  ofthe  Tribunal, that no award was made against him  as  such.He could not, therefore, be said to be a party aggrieved  bythe  award,  having  been exonerated from  its	terms.	 TheTribunal  put  this  on	 three	main  grounds-(1)  that	 theauction-purchaser had purchased the business of the  Companyfree from all encumbrances, out-goings and liabilities,	 (2)that  the employment of the workmen. had been terminated  bythe  Liquidators  before  possession  of  the  business	 wasdelivered to the auctionpurchaser, and (3) that there was norelationship of employer and employees between the  auction-purchaser and the workmen whose services were so terminated.The  Tribunal,	in  that view of the  matter,  declared	 theReference  to  be  incompetent in so  far  as  the  auction-purchaser was concerned.  This order, the Tribunal passed atthe instance of the auctionpurchaser himself.  The  auction-purchaser, therefore, succeeded in obtaining the order whichthe  Tribunal passed, holding that the Reference, so far  ashe was concerned, was incompetent.  In view of these  facts,it  must  be held that so far as  the  auction-purchaser  isconcerned,  he	was not aggrieved by the Award made  by	 theIndustrial Tribunal.  That being so, the provisions of s. 12of  the	 Act, are not attracted to the appeal  purported  tohave  been filed by the auction-purchaser.  It is  a  littledifficult  to  appreciate why the  auctionpurchaser,  havingsucceeded  in  obtaining the order, set out  above,  in	 hisfavour,	 changed his mind and preferred an appeal which,  inthe events that had happened, was not maintainable.24In our opinion, therefore, the Labour Appellate Tribunal wasnot in error in dismissing the appeal by the Company and  bythe   auction-purchaser,   as  incompetent.    It   follows,therefore, that we are not concerned with the merits of	 theappeal.	 In view of the fact that we have not expressed	 anyopinion	 on  the  merits of the controversy  raised  in	 theabortive  appeal, this dismissal shall be without  prejudiceto   the  appellants'  rights,	if  any.   The	appeal	 is,accordingly, dismissed, but the parties here are directed tobear  their own costs, in view of the fact that we have	 notgone into the merits of the controversy.Appeal dismissed.