PETITIONER:M/s.  ALOPI PARSHAD & SONS, LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE UNION OF INDIADATE OF JUDGMENT:20/01/1960BENCH:SHAH, J.C.BENCH:SHAH, J.C.DAS, S.K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1960 AIR  588		  1960 SCR  (2) 793 CITATOR INFO : R	    1963 SC1685	 (14) RF	    1968 SC 522	 (10) R	    1971 SC 712	 (13) R	    1984 SC1072	 (21) RF	    1988 SC 734	 (17) E	    1988 SC1166	 (5) R	    1989 SC 890	 (18,30) RF	    1990 SC1340	 (9) R	    1992 SC 232	 (29)ACT:Arbitration-Award, setting aside of-Error on the face of therecord-Reference  of  specific	questions-Contract-Terms  ofPayment	   specified-Change   of   circumstances-Power	  ofarbitrator  to	vary  terms-Quantum  Meruit  Payment,	whenjustified.HEADNOTE:The appellants were appointed under an agreement in  writingby  the	 Governor-General  as  agents  for  purchasing	 andsupplying  ghee required for the Army personnel with  effectfrom  October 1, 1937.	After the outbreak of the World	 War11  there was an enormous increase in the demand of ghee  bythe  Government	 and  the agreement was	 revised  by  mutualconsent on June 20, 1942, and the original rates of  paymentwere scaled down.  On December 6, 1943, the appellants	madea  representation to the Government for enhancing the  ratesas conditions had become794abnormal.  According to the appellants they were given assu-rances that their, claims would be favourably considered  bythe   Government  and  relying	on  these  assurances	theycontinued  to			 supply	  ghee in quantitiesdemanded   by	the  Government	  incurring    heavy   extraexpenditure.	The   Government   did	 not   enhance	 therates  and the matter was referred to arbitration under	 theagreement  of 1937.  Before the arbitrators  the  appellantscontended  that the agreement Of 1942 was not  binding	uponthem  and claimed payment on the basis of the  agreement  Of1937; and in the alternative claimed payment on the basis ofincreased   rates  of  mandi  charges,	 additional   buyingremuneration  and  contingency charges.	 These	claims	wereresisted  by  the  Government and it  was  denied  that	 anyassurances  were  given	 by the Government  to	enhance	 therates.	 The arbitrators incorporated the points of  contestin  the form of issues.	 By an award dated May 2, 1954,	 thearbitrators  rejected  the primary claim  of  the  appellantholding	 that  the agreement of 1942 was  binding.   On	 thealternative  claim  they  awarded a sum of  money  for	losssuffered  by the appellants on account of establishment	 andcontingencies,	and  another  sum for  mandi  and  financingcharges.   The	award  was  filled  in	the  Court  of	 theCommercial  Sub-judge, Delhi, and the Government applied  tohave it set aside.  The Sub-judge held that though there wasan error on the face of the award in ordering the payment ofadditional  remuneration and financing and overhead  chargesthe award could not set aside as specific questions had beenexpressly  referred for adjudication to the arbitrators	 andthe  award was binding on the parties.	On appeal  the	HighCourt  held  that  no specific questions  of  law  had	beenreferred to the arbitrators and that the award was  vitiatedby errors apparent on the face of the award.Held,  that the award was liable to be set aside because  ofan error apparent on the face of the award.  An	 arbitrationaward  may  be set aside on tile ground of an error  on	 theface  of it when the reasons given for the decision,  eitherin  the award or in any document incorporated with  it,	 arebased  upon  a legal proposition which	is  erroneous.	 Butwhere  a  specific question is referred, the  award  is	 notliable	to  be set aside oil the ground of an error  on	 theface  of  the  award  even if the  answer  to  the  questioninvolves  an erroneous decision on a point of law.   In	 thepresent	 case  there  was  a general  reference	 and  not  aspecific reference on any question of law.Champsey  Bhara and Co. v. Jivraj Balloo Spinning &  WeavingCo.,  Ltd.,  L.	 R.  50	 1. A.	324,  In  the  matter  of  aarbitration between King and Duveen  L.R. 1913 2 K.B.1). 32,and  Government of Kelantan  v. Duff Development Co.,  Ltd.,L. R. 1923 A. C. 395, relied on.The  contract  provided	 for payment  of  charges  at  ratesspecified  therein and the arbitrators could not ignore	 theexpress covenants between the parties and award amounts	 notagreed to be			 795paid.	A  contract  is not frustrated	merely	because	 thecircumstances in which it was made are altered.	 The  courtshave   no  general  power  to  absolve	a  party  from	 theperformance of his  part of the contract merely because	 itsperformance  has become onerous on account of  an  unforseenturn  of events.Constantine's case (1942) A. C. 154, Hirji Mulji v.  CinemasLtd.  Steamship	 Co.,  Ltd.,  (1926)  A.  C.  497,   BritishMovietonews Ltd. v. London and District Cinemas, L. R.	1952A.  C.	166  and Parki son &Co., Ltd.  v.  Commissioners  ofWorks. (1949) 2 K. B. D. 632, referred to.British Movietonews Ltd. v. London and District Cinemas Ltd.(1951) 1 K.B.D. 190, disapproved.  The	award which  ignoredthe express terms of the contract  prescribing		 theremuneration  payable could not be justified  as  proceedingupon  the  basis  of  quantum	       meruit.	Compensationquantum	 meruit	 may be awarded for work  done	or  servicesrendered  only	when  the price thereof is not	fixed  by  acontract. For work done or service rendered pursuant to	 theterms  of a contract, compensation quantum meruit cannot  beawarded where  the  contract provides for the  considerationpayable in that behalf.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal   No.   693	  of1957.Appeal from the judgment and Order dated the 25th May,	1956of the Punjab High Court in F.A.C. No. 89/D of 55.N. C. Chatterjee, S. K. Kapur, N. H. Hingorani	  and GanpatRai, for the appellants.H. J. Umrigar and T. M. Sen, for the respondent.1960. January 20. The Judgment of the Court was	  deliveredbySHAH  J.-On May 3, 1937, M/s. Alopi Parshad and	 Sons  Ltd.,who will herinafter be referred to as the    Agents,   were,under an agreement in writing, appointed     by		 theGovernor-General for India in Council, as    from October 1,1937, agents for purchasing ghee   required  for the use  ofthe Army personnel. The	 Government  of India, by cl. 12  ofthe agreement, undertook  to  pay to the Agents	 the  actualexpenses  incurred for purchasing ghee, cost of empty  tins,expenses incurred on clearance of Government tins from	 therailway, export land-customs duty levied     on		gheepurchased and exported from markets situated in	      IndianStates,	 octroi duty, terminal tax or other local  rates  onghee, and certain other charges incurred796by  the	 Agents.  The Government also agreed to pay  to	 theAgents at rates specified in the agreement:(1)  the financing and overhead (mandi) charges incurred  inthe buying markets.(2) the cost of establishments and contingencies    providedby  the Agents on the Government's account for carrying	 outthe purchase and supply of ghee, and(3)  the  buying  remuneration.In  consideration of the  Government paying to the Agents  asum  of rupee one and anna one only per one  hundred  poundsnett weight of finally accepted ghee, as combined  financingand overhead (mandi) charges, the Agents by cl. 13 undertookto  provide the working capital and also to bear the  costs,charges	 and  expenses,	 including  financing  and  overheadcharges incurred by them in buying ghee in the market.The   Agents  also  undertook,	by  cl.	 14,  to  bear	 theestablishment	and   contingency  charges   for   the	 duoperformance  by them of the terms of the agreement, and	 theGovernment  agreed to pay in consideration thereof annas  14and  pies 6 per every hundred pounds of ghee accepted.	 TheGovernment also agreed to pay to the Agents remuneration forservices  rendered  in purchasing ghee, at the rate  of	 onerupee per one hundred pounds nett weight of accepted ghee.Pursuant to the agreement, the Agents supplied from time  totime  ghee  to	the Government of India,  as  required.	  InSeptember,  1939, the World War 11 broke out, and there	 wasan  enormous  increase in the demand by	 the  Government  ofghee.	On  June 20, 1942, the original	 agreement  was,  bymutual consent, revised, and in respect of the establishmentand  contingencies, the uniform rate of annas 14 and 6	piesper  hundred pounds of accepted ghee, was substituted  by  agraded scale: for the first 5 thousand tons, the Agents wereto be paid at the rate of Re. 0-14-6 per hundred pounds, forthe  next  five thousand tons, at the rate of  annas  8	 perhundred	 pounds,  and  at the rate of annas  4	per  hundredpounds, for supplies exceeding ten thousand tons.  Even	 illrespect of		      797remuneration  for services, a graded scale was	substituted:for  the first five thousand tons, remuneration	   was to bepaid  at the rate of Re. 1 per hundred	pounds, at  the rateof  annas 8 per hundred pounds, for the next five  thousand,and annas 4 per hundred	 pounds, for supplies  exceeding tenthousand  tons.	   This	 modification  in  the	rates becameeffective from September 11, 1940.By  their communication dated December 6, 1943,	 the  Agentsdemanded   that	  the	remuneration,	establishment	 andcontingencies, and mandi and financing charges, be enhanced.In  respect of the buying remuneration, they proposed  a  25per   cent  increase;  in  respect  of	 establishment	 andcontingencies,	they proposed an increase of 20	 per  cent.,and  in respect of mandi and financing charges, an  increaseof 112 per cent.  This revision of the rates was claimed  onthe plea that the existing rates, fixed in peace time,	were"entirely  superseded  by  the	totally	 altered  conditionsobtaining  in war time." To this letter, no immediate  replywas  given  by	the  Government of  India,  and	 the  Agentscontinued  to supply ghee till May, 1945.  On May 17,  1945,the Government of India, purporting to exercise their optionunder  cl.  9  of the agreement, served the  Agents  with  anotice	of termination of the agreement.  On May  22,  1945,the Chief Director of Purchases, on behalf of the Governmentof India, replied to the letter dated December 6, 1943,	 andinformed  the Agents that normally no claim for revision  ofrates  could  be  entertained during  the  currency  of	 theagreement  and especially with retrospective effect,  but  aclaim  for  ex-gratia compensation to meet any	actual	losssuffered  by an agent, might be entertained, if	 the  Agentsestablished  circumstances  justifying such  a	claim.	 TheChief Director of Purchases called upon the Agents to submitthe  report -of their auditors on the agency  accounts,	 forthe  ghee supplied, as also a statement in  detail,  showingthe actual expenditure incurred.The notice dated May 17, 1945, was waived by mutual consent,and  under  an arrangement dated May 16,  1946,	 the  Agentsagreed to supply five798thousand  tons of ghee by October 31, 1946, on	which  date,the  agreement dated May 3, 1937, was to come to an end.By   their   letter   dated  July  1,	1946,	the   Agentsclaimed	 that a dispute had arisen under the  contract,	 andappointed one Nigam to be arbitrator on their	  behalf  toadjudicate upon the dispute, pursuant to cl. 20 of the termsof  the	 agreement dated May 3, 1937, and. called  upon	 theGovernment  of	India  to  appoint  their  arbitrator.	 TheGovernment  of India, by their letter dated July  10,  1946,nominated  one Rangi Lal to be arbitrator on  their  behalf.Before	the arbitrators, the Agents made their	claim  underfour heads:(1)  The  Agents claimed that the agreement dated  June	 20,1942,  was not binding upon them, and they were entitled  toRs.  23,08,372-8-0 being the difference between	 the  buyingremuneration,  establishment  and  contingency	charges	 dueunder  the  agreement  dated May 3,  1937,  and	 the  amountactually  received.  The details of this claim were set	 outin Sch.	 A.(2)In  the  event of the arbitrators holding  the  agreementdated  June 20, 1942, was binding, a revision of  the  ratesfor  establishment  and	 contingencies,	 and  an  additionalamount of Rs. 6,91,600-4-0 at such revised rates as set	 outin Sch.	 B.(3)Revision  of	 the rates fixed under the  agreement  datedJune  20,  1942,  of the mandi charges,	 and  an  additionalamount of Rs. 14,47,204-6-3, at the revised rates as set outin Sch.	 C.(4)Damages for wrongful termination of the agreement in	 themonth  of October, 1946, amounting to Rs. 2,41,235,  as	 setout in Sch.  D.The  arbitrators did not arrive at any agreed decision,	 andthe dispute was referred to Lala Achru Ram who was nominatedan  umpire.  The umpire was of the view that  the  agreementdated June 20, 1942, was valid, and the claim as set out  inSch.   A was untenable; that the claims set out in  Sch.   Band Sch.  C, did not arise out of the agreement, and he	 hadno jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the same; and that as theclaim set out in Sch.  D, was outside the scope of			    799the  Reference,	 he was incompetent to give any	 finding  onthat claim.This Award was filed in the court of the Sub-ordinate Judge,First  class,  Delhi.  The Agents applied to set  aside	 theAward  on  the	grounds	 that  the  umpire  was	 guilty	  ofmisconduct in that he failed to give an adequate opportunityto the Agents to present and substantiate their case  beforehim,  and  that in holding that the claims as  described  inSchedules  B,  C  and D, either did not	 arise	out  of	 theagreement  or were outside the scope of the  Reference,	 theumpire	erred.	The learned Subordinate Judge held that	 theumpire was in error in leaving undetermined claims describedin  Sch.  B and Sch.  D, which were within the scope of	 theReference,  and	 that  the claim described in  Sch.   C	 wasproperly  left undecided as it was outside the scope of	 theReference.   He	 also held that the Award  was	vitiated  onaccount of judicial misconduct, because the Agents were	 notallowed by the umpire sufficient opportunity to place  theircase.	 The  learned  Subordinate  Judge,  in	that   view,proceeded  to  set  aside  the Award,  but  he	declined  tosupersede  the	Reference,  and left it to  the	 parties  to"appoint  other	 arbitrators  in  view	of  cl.	 20  of	 theagreement, for settling the dispute."Against	 the  order of the Subordinate Judge, the  Union  ofIndia  appealed to the High Court of East  Punjab.   Khosla,J., who heard the appeal, confirmed the order passed by	 thecourt of first instance.  The learned Judge agreed with	 theview  of  the  Subordinate Judge that the  umpire  bad	beenguilty	of judicial misconduct.	 The learned Judge  observedin  his judgment that the claim of the Agents, as  describedin  Schedules  B  and  C, was  not  beyond  the	 arbitrationagreement.   In so observing, presumably, the learned  Judgecommitted some error.  The Subordinate Judge had come to theconclusion  that the claim described in Sch.  C, was  beyondthe  arbitration  agreement, and no reasons  were  given  byKhosla, J., for disagreeing with that view.Appeal	31  of 1953 under the Letters  Patent,	against	 thejudgment of Khosla J., was dismissed by a102800Division  Bench of the High Court of East Punjab,  observingthat  the  claim  detailed  in Sch.   B	 arose	out  of	 thecontract, but that it was unnecessary to decide whether	 theclaim described in Sch.	 C for an increase in the  financingand  overhead mandi charges, was properly ruled out  by	 theumpire.In the meantime, by letter dated August 9, 1952, the  Agentscalled	upon  the  Government  of  India  to  appoint  theirarbitrator under cl. 20 of the agreement dated May 3,  1937,for a fresh adjudication of the dispute, and intimated	thatthey had again appointed Nigam to be their arbitrator.	 TheGovernment  of	India informed the Agents  by  their  letterdated August 14, 1952, that they had filed an appeal againstthe  judgment  of the Subordinate Judge, Delhi, and  in	 thecircumstances, the question of appointing an arbitrator, didnot  arise  until  the final disposal of  the  appeal.	 TheGovernment,  however,  without prejudice  to  their  rights,including the right to prosecute the appeal, again appointedRangi Lal to be arbitrator on their behalf.After  the Appeal under the Letters Patent, was	 decided  bythe  East  Punjab  High	 Court on  Decemher  16,  1953,	 thearbitrators  entered upon the reference.  On March 1,  1954,the  Agents  submitted	their  claim,  contending  that	 thesupplementary  agreement dated June 20, 1942, was  void	 andnot  binding  upon  them, and that, in	any  event,  on	 therepresentations made on -December 6, 1943, and from time  totime thereafter, they were assured by the Chief Director  ofPurchases  that the claim made by them would  be  favourablyconsidered by the Government of India, and relying on  theseassurances,  they  continued to supply	ghee  in  quantitiesdemanded  by  the Government after incurring "	heavy  extraexpenditure".	They also claimed that they were  constantlydemanding  an increase in the mandi and	 financing  charges,but the Chief Director of Purchases, who was duly authorizedin  that  behalf  by the Government,  gave  repeated  verbalassurances  that  their	 demands  would	 be  satisfied,	 andrequested  them	 to  continue supplies	for  the  successfulprosecution of the war.	 Contending				   801       that  the Government of India was estopped from	repudiating       their claim set out in Schedules B and C, in view of all the       facts and circumstances stated in  the petition,	 the Agents       prayed  for a declaration that the  supplementary  agreement       dated June 20, 1942, was void and not binding upon them, and       for  a decree for payment of Rs. 27,48,515 with interest	 at       the  rate of 6 per cent. per annum from March 1, 1954,  and,       in  the,	 alternative, for a decree for	Rs.  25,63,037-7-3,       with  interest  at the rate of 6 percent.  per  annual  from       March 1, 1954, till recovery.  This claim of the Agents	was       resisted	 by  the Government of India.  Inter alia,  it	was       denied  that  any assurances were given by the  Director	 of       Purchases,  or  that  the Agents continued  to  supply  thee       relying upon such alleged assurances.  It was asserted  that       the  Agents continued to supply thee without insisting  upon       any  modification of the agreement, because they found,	and       it must be presumed that they found, it profitable to do	 so       under the terms fixed under the supplementary contract dated       June  20, 1942.	The claims made for the	 additional  buying       remuneration,  for mandi charges and for	 establishment	and       contingency charges, were denied.  It was urged that, in any       event, the claim for additional buying remuneration and	for       mandi  charges  and for reimbursement of	 establishment	and       contingencies,  was not covered by cl. 20 of the	 agreement,       under which the submission to arbitration was made, and	the       arbitrators  had	 no jurisdiction to adjudicate	upon  those       claims.       On the claim made by the Agents, and the denial thereof, the       arbitrators  incorporated the points of contest in the  form       of certain issues.  On May 2, 1954, the arbitrators made	 an       award  rejecting	 the  primary claim on the  view  that	the       supplementary  agreement	 dated	June  20,  1942,  was	for       consideration  and the same was valid and binding  upon	the       Agents.	 On the alternative claim, they awarded, under	the       head  of establishment and contingencies,  Rs.  80,994-12-6,       being  the actual loss which, in their view, the Agents	had       suffered, and Rs. 11,27,965-11-3, in addition to the amounts       received by the Agents from the Government       802       for   mandi   and  financing   charges.	  The	arbitrators       accordingly  awarded  an amount of Rs.  13,03,676-12-6  with       future interest from November 15, 1949, till the V. date	 of       realization, and costs.       The Union of India  The award was filed in the court of	the       Commercial  Subordinate Judge, Delhi, on June 2, 1954.	The       Government  of  India  applied under ss. 30 and	33  of	the       Indian  Arbitration  Act,  to set aside	the  award  on	the       grounds	that  it was invalid, that it had  been	 improperly       procured,  and that it was vitiated on account  of  judicial       misconduct  of the arbitrators.	The Commercial	Subordinate       Judge  held  that  the arbitrators had  committed  an  error       apparent	 on the face of the award in ordering the Union	 to       pay to the Agents additional remuneration and financing	and       overhead	 charges,  but,	 in his	 view,	specific  questions       having  been  expressly	referred for  adjudication  to	the       arbitrators,  the  award was binding upon  the  parties	and       could not be set aside on the ground of an error apparent on       the face thereof.  The learned Judge, accordingly,  rejected       the application for setting aside the award.       Against	the order made by the Subordinate Judge, an  appeal       was  preferred  by the Union of India to the High  Court	 of       East  Punjab at Chandigarh.  At the hearing of  the  appeal,       counsel	for the Agents sought to support the award  on	the       plea  that certain questions had been specifically  referred       to  the arbitrators, and it was open to the  arbitrators	 to       make  the  award which they made, on the	 basis	of  quantum       meruit.	 The  High Court held that there  was  no  specific       reference  of any questions of law to the  arbitrators,	and       the  decision of the arbitrators was not conclusive and	was       open  to	 challenge,  because  it  was  vitiated	 by  errors       apparent on the face of the award.  The High Court  reversed       the order passed by the Subordinate Judge, and set aside the       award  of the arbitrators, holding that there was no  "legal       basis  for awarding any compensation" to the Agents for	any       loss which they might have sustained.  This appeal has  been       filed  with leave of the High Court under el. 133 (1)(a)	 of       the Constitution.       803       The extent of the jurisdiction of the court to set aside	 an       award  on the ground of an error in making,,,,,,. the  award       is  well-defined.   The award of an arbitrator	may  be set       aside  on  the ground of an error on the face  thereof  only       when  in the award or in any document incorporated with	it,       as for instance, a note appended by the arbitrators, stating       the  reasons  for his decision, there is	 found	some  legal       proposition  which  is the basis of the award and  which	 is       erroneous-Champsey  Bhara  and  Company	v.  Jivaraj  Balloo       Spinning	 and Weaving Company, Limited (1).  If, however,  a       specific	 question  is submitted to the	arbitrator  and	 he       answers	it, the fact that the answer involves an  erroneous       decision in point of law does not make the award bad on	its       face so as to permit of its being set aside-In the matter of       an  arbitration between King and Duveen and Others (2 )	and       Government  of Kelantan v. Duff Development Company  Limited       (3).       Was  the reference made by the parties to the arbitrators  a       specific	 reference,  that  is,	a  reference  inviting	the       arbitrators to decide certain. questions of law submitted to       them?   If the reference is of a specific question  of  law,       even  if	 the  award is erroneous,  the	decision  being	 of       arbitrators selected by the parties to adjudicate upon those       questions,  the	award  will  bind  the	parties.   In	the       reference  originally made to the arbitrators by the  letter       of  the	Agents	on  July 1, 1946,  and	the  reply  of	the       Government  dated July 10, 1946, a general reference of	the       dispute was made in terms of el. 20 of the agreement.   Even       though  the award made on that reference, was set  aside	 by       the  Subordinate Judge, the arbitration was not	superseded,       and  the	 reference was expressly kept alive,  reserving	 an       opportunity  to	the parties to	appoint	 fresh	arbitrators       pursuant to the agreement, for settling the dispute; and	 by       letters	respectively dated August 2, 1952, and	August	14,       1952, a general reference was again made to the arbitrators.       Paragraph  14 of the letter written by the Agents on  August       2,  1952, evidences an intention to serve the  notice  under       cl. 20       (1) L.R. 5o I.A. 324.	 (2) L.E. (1913) 2 K.B.D. 32.       (3)  L.R. 1923 A.C..395.       804       of  the	agreement.  Issues were undoubtedly raised  by	the       arbitrators, but that was presumably to focus  the attention       of the parties on the points arising for adjudication.	The       Agents had made their claim before the arbitrators, and	the       claim and the jurisdiction of the arbitrators to	 adjudicate       upon  the claim, were denied.  The arbitrators were  by	the       terms  of reference only authorized to adjudicate  upon	the       disputes raised.	 There is no foundation for the view that a       specific	 reference,  submitting a question of law  for	the       adjudication of the arbitrators, was made.       We  agree, therefore, with the view of the High	Court  that       the  reference  made,  was a general  reference	and  not  a       specific	 reference on any question of law.  The award  may,       therefore,  be  set  aside  if  it  be  demonstrated  to	 be       erroneous on the face of it.       The original agreement dated May 3,1937, was modified by the       supplementary  agreement	 dated	June  20,  1942,  and	the       arbitrators  have  held	that  the  modified  agreement	was       binding	upon the Agents.  By the agreement as  modified,  a       graded  scale  was  fixed  for  the  establishment  and	the       contingencies  to  be paid to the Agents, and also  for	the       mandi charges and overhead expenses.  The arbitrators  still       proceeded  to award an additional amount	 for  establishment       and  contingencies  and	an  additional	amount	for   mandi       charges.	  By  el.  14(a), read with el. 12(b)  (2)  of	the       agreement,  the rate at which establishment and	contingency       charges were to be paid, was expressly stipulated, and there       is no dispute that the Government of India have paid to	the       Agents  those  charges  at  the	stipulated  rate  for  thee       actually purchased.  The award of the arbitrators shows that       the  amount actually received from the Government,  totalled       Rs.   6,04,700-9-0,  whereas,  according	 to  the   accounts       maintained  by the Agents, they had spent Rs.  6,77,542-0-3.       Granting	 that  the  Agents  had	 incurred  this	 additional       expenditure    under   the   head   `   establishment	and       contingencies',	when the contract expressly stipulated	for       payment	of charges at rates specified therein, we  fail	 to       appreciate  on what ground the arbitrators could ignore	the       express       805       covenants  between  the	parties, and award  to	the  Agents       amounts	which the Union of India had  not agreed to pay	 to       the  Agents.   The  award  of  the     arbitrators, awarding       additional  expenses  under the head  of	 establishment	and       contingencies,  together	 with interest thereon, is  on	the       face of it erroneous.       Before  the arbitrators, a number of arhatias  who  supplied       thee  to	 the Agents, appeared and  produced  extracts  from       their  books, showing the amounts actually due to them  from       the  latter.  Detailed charts, showing the total amount	due       under  each  head  of  expenditure  to  each  arhatia,  were       produced.    The	  arbitrators  were  satisfied	 that	the       statements produced, reflected a general rise in prices	and       cost of labour.	Taking into consideration the fact that the       other  persons  were buying thee at  rates  considerably	 in       excess  of the stipulated rates, the arbitrators	 held  that       the  Agents were entitled to be reimbursed to the extent	 of       Rs.   11,27,965-11-3.   But  the	 terms	of  the	  contract,       stipulating  the	 rate at which the financing  and  overhead       charges were to be paid under el. 13(a) read with cl. 12(b),       remained	 binding so long as the contract was not  abandoned       or  altered by mutual agreement, and the arbitrators had	 no       authority  to  award  any amount in  excess  of	the  amount       expressly stipulated to be paid.	 Mr. Chatterjee, on  behalf       of the Agents, submitted that the circumstances existing	 at       the  time when the terms of the contract were settled,  were       "entirely  displaced"  by  reason  of  the  commencement	 of       hostilities  in the Second World War, and the terms  of	the       contract agreed upon in the light of circumstances  existing       in May, 1937, could not, in view of the turn of events which       were  never  in	the contemplation of  the  parties,  remain       binding	upon the Agents.  This argument is untrue  in  fact       and unsupportable in law.  The contract was modified on June       20,  1942, by mutual consent, and the modification was  made       nearly	three	years  after  the   commencement   of	the       hostilities.   The  Agents were fully aware of  the  altered       circumstances  at  the date when the modified  schedule	for       payment	of  overhead  charges,	contingencies  and   buying       remuneration, was agreed       806       upon.   Again, a contract is not frustrated  merely  because       the  circumstances  in  which the  contract  was	 made,	are       altered.       Section 56 of the Indian Contract Act provides       " A contract to do an act which, after the contract is made,       becomes	impossible, or, by reason of some event	 which	the       promiser could not prevent, unlawful, becomes void when	the       act becomes impossible or unlawful."       Performance  of	the contract had not become  impossible	 or       unlawful; the contract was in fact performed by the  Agents,       and they have received remuneration expressly stipulated	 to       be paid therein.	 The Indian Contract Act does not enable  a       party to a contract to ignore the express covenants thereof,       and to claim payment of consideration for performance of the       contract	 at rates different from the stipulated	 rates,	 on       some  vague plea of equity.  " The parties to  an  executory       contract are often faced, in the course of carrying it  out,       with   a	 turn  of  events  which  they	did  not   at	all       anticipate--a  wholly  abnormal rise or fall  in	 prices,  a       sudden  depreciation of currency, an unexpected obstacle	 to       execution, or the like.	Yet this does not in itself  affect       the  bargain  they  have made.  If, on  the  other  hand,  a       consideration of the terms of the contract, in the light	 of       the circumstances existing when it was made, shows that they       never agreed to be bound in a fundamentally different situa-       tion which has now unexpectedly emerged, the contract ceases       to  bind	 at  that  point-not  because  the  court  in	its       discretion  thinks  it just and reasonable  to  qualify	the       terms of the contract, but because on its true  construction       it  does not apply in that situation.  When it is said  that       in  such circumstances the court reaches a conclusion  which       is  'just  and  reasonable' (Lord  Wright  in  Constantine's       case(1) or one 'which justice demands' (Lord Sumner in Hirji       Mulji  v. Cheong Yue Steamship Co. Ltd. (2) this	 result	 is       arrived at by putting a just construction upon the  contract       in accordance with an 'implication............ from the       (1) (1942) A.C. 154, 186.      (2) (1926) A.C. 497, 510       807       presumed	 common	 intention of the parties'-speech  of  Lord       Simon  in  British Movietonews Ltd. v. London  and  District       Cinemas Ltd. (1).       There  is  no  general liberty reserved	to  the	 courts	 to       absolve	a party from liability to perform his part   of the       contract,  merely  because on account of	 an  uncontemplated       turn  of events, the performance of the contract may  become       onerous.	 That is the law both in India and in England,	and       there is, in our opinion, no general rule to which  recourse       may  be	had as contended by Mr.	 Chatterjee,  relying  upon       which a party may ignore the express covenants on account of       an  uncontemplated  turn	 of events since the  date  of	the       contract.   Mr.	Chatterjee strenuously	contended  that	 in       England,	 a rule has in recent years been evolved which	did       not attach to contracts the same sanctity which the  earlier       decisions had attached, and in support of his contention, he       relied upon the observations made in British Movietonews Ld.       v.  London  and	District Cinemas Ld. (2).   In	that  case,       Denning, L.J., is reported to have observed :	"............ no matter that a contract is framed in  words       which   taken  literally	 or  absolutely,  cover	 what	has       happened, nevertheless, if the ensuing turn of events was so       completely outside the contemplation of the parties that the       court  is satisfied that the parties, as reasonable  people,       cannot  have intended that the contract should apply to	the       new  situation,	then the court will read the words  of	the       contract in a qualified sense; it will restrict them to	the       circumstances contemplated by the parties; it will not apply       them  to	 the  uncontemplated turn of events,  but  will	 do       therein what is just and reasonable.  "       But  the	 observations  made by Denning,	 L.J.,	upon  which       reliance	 has  been  placed,  proceeded	substantially  upon       misapprehension	of what was decided in Parkinson & Co.	Ld.       v.  Commissioners  of Works (3), on which the  learned  Lord       Justice	placed	considerable reliance.	The view  taken	 by       him, was negatived  in       (1) L.R. 1052 A.C. 166 at pp. 185 & 186.       (2) (1951) 1 K.B.D. 19O, 201,       (3) (1949) 2 K.B. D. 632.       103       808       appeal  to  the House of Lords in the  British  Movietonew's       case-(1952) A.C. 166-already referred to.  In lndia, in	the       codified law of contracts, there is nothing which  justifies       the  view  that	a change of  circustamences,  "	 completely       outside	the contemplation of parties" at the time when	the       contract	 was  entered  into, will justify  a  court,  while       holding the parties bound by the contract, in departing from       the  express  terms  thereof.   Parkinson  and  Co.  Ld.	 v.       Commissioners  of Works (1) was a case in which on the  true       interpretation of a contract, it was held, though it was not       so  expressly  provided,	 that  the  profits  of	 a  private       contractor,  who	 had  entered  into  a	contract  with	the       Commissioners   of   Works   to	 make	certain	   building       constructions and such other additional constructions as may       be demanded by the latter, were restricted to a fixed amount       only   if   the	additional  quantity  of   work	  did	not       substantially exceed in value a specified sum.  The Court in       that  case held that a term must be implied in the  contract       that  the  Commissioners should not be entitled	to  require       work  materially	 in excess of the specified sum.   In  that       case,  the  Court  did not proceed  upon	 any  such  general       principle  as was assumed by Denning, L.J., in  the  British       Movietonews Ld. v. London and District Cinemas Ld. (2).       We  are, therefore, unable to agree with the  contention	 of       Mr.  Chatterjee	that  the arbitrators,	were  justified	 in       ignoring	 the  express  terms of	 the  contract	prescribing       remuneration  payable to the Agents, and in proceeding  upon       the basis of quantum meruit.       Relying	upon  s. 222 of the Indian Contract Act,  by  which       duty to indemnify the agent against the consequences of	all       lawful acts done in exercise of the authority conferred,	 is       imposed	upon the employer, the arbitrators could not  award       compensation  to	 the  agents in	 excess	 of  the  expressly       stipulated consideration.  The claim made by the Agents	was       not for indemnity for consequences of acts lawfully done	 by       them  on behalf of the Government of India; it was  a  claim       for charges incurred by them in excess of those	stipulated.       Such a claim was not a claim for       (1) (1949) 2 K.P.D. 632.       (2) (1951) 1 K.B.D. 190, 201.       809       indemnity,  but a claim for enhancement of the rate  of	the       agreed consideration.  Assuming that the Agents relied  upon       assurances alleged to be given by the Director in-charge	 of       Purchases,  in the absence of an express covenant  modifying       the  contract  which  governed the relations  of	 the Agents       with  the  Government of India, vague assurances	 could	not       modify  the  contract.	Ghee having been  supplied  by	the       Agents  under the terms of the -contract, the right  of	the       Agents  was to receive remuneration under the terms of  that       contract.   It  is  difficult  to  appreciate  the  argument       advanced by Mr. Chatterjee that the Agents were entitled	 to       claim remuneration at rates substantially different from the       terms   stipulated,   on	 the  basis  of	  quantum   meruit.       Compensation  quantum  meruit is awarded for  work  done	 or       services rendered, when the price thereof is not fixed by  a       contract.   For work done or services rendered  pursuant	 to       the terms of a contract, compensation quantum meruit  cannot       be awarded where the contract provides for the consideration       payable	in  that behalf Quantum meruit	is  but	 reasonable       compensation  awarded  on  implication  of  a  contract	 to       remunerate,   and  an  express  stipulation  governing	the       relations  between the parties under a contract,	 cannot	 be       displaced   by	assuming  that	the  stipulation   is	not       reasonable.   It is, therefore, unnecessary to consider	the       argument	 advanced  by  Mr.  Chatterjee	that  a	 claim	for       compensation  on the basis of quantum meruit, is	 one  which       arises  out of the agreement within the meaning of  cl.	20.       Granting	 that  a  claim for compensation on  the  basis	 of       quantum	meruit, may be adjudicated upon by the	arbitrators       in  a reference made under el. 20 of the agreement,  in	the       circumstances  of the case before us, compensation  on  that       basis could not be claimed.       The  plea that there was a bar of res judicata by reason	 of       the  decision in the Letters Patent Appeal No. 31  of  1953,       has,  in our judgment, no force.	 The Subordinate Judge	set       aside  the award on the ground that there had been  judicial       misconduct committed by the umpire and also on the view that       the claims made, as described in Schedules B and D, were not       outside       810       the competence of the arbitrators.  The High Court in appeal       under  the  Letters Patent, did confirm the  order,  setting       aside the award; but there was no  binding decision  between       the parties that the claim   described in Sch.  B, that	is,       the  claim  for establishment and contingency  charges,	was       within	the	     competence	 of  the   arbitrators	 in       reference under el. 20.It may be observed that according	 to       the High Court of East Punjab in the Appeal No. 31 of  1953,       under  the Letters Patent, it was not necessary	to  express       any  opinion  whether the claim in Sch.	C  was	within	the       competence  of the arbitrators, and the claims described	 in       Sch.  D does not appear to have been agitated in the  second       arbitration proceeding.       We, accordingly, agree with the view of the High Court  that       the  Award  of the arbitrators was liable to  be	 set  aside       because	of an error apparent on the face of the award.	 In       this view, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.       Appeal dismissed.