PETITIONER:THE STATE OF MADRAS AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:V. SRINIVASA AYYANGAR.DATE OF JUDGMENT:21/10/1955BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.CITATION: 1956 AIR   94		  1955 SCR  (2) 907ACT:Madras Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act,(Madras	 Act  XXVI  of	1948),	s.  1(3)(4),s.	3(b)--MadrasEstates	 Land Act I of 1908, s. 3(2)-Notification  under  s.1(4)  of  Madras  Act  XXVI of	1948-Comprising	 a  part  ofvillage-Darmila	 or  post-settlement  inam  in	respect	  ofportion of village-Whether the part vests in the State unders.  3(b)  of the Madras Act XXVI of 1948-Estate	 within	 themeaning	 of s, 1(3) of Madras Act XXVI of 1948 read with  s.3(2)  of Madras Act I of 1908-Whether includes part  of	 theestate-Compensation  to Darmila Inamdar-Darmila minor  inam-Whether protected by s. 20 of the Act XXVI of 1948.HEADNOTE:At the time of passing of the Madras Estates (Abolition	 andConversion  into Ryotwari) Act (Madras Act XXVI of 1948),  a15/16th	 portion  of village Karuppur  situated	 within	 theZamindari of Ramanathapuram was hold by the inamdars under apre-settlement	grant confirmed by the	British	 Government,the estate being permanently settled in 1802.  The remainingone-sixteenth portion was held by the holders of darmila  orpost-settlement inams made by the proprietor of the  estate.In exercise of the powers conferred by s. 1(4) of the MadrasAct  XXVI of 1948 the State of Madras issued a	notificationdated  22nd  August  1949 bringing the	Act  into  force  asregards	 the Ramanathapuram estate from 7th September  1949,the   latter  Zamindari	 including  one-sixteenth  part	  ofHaruppur  village.   The respondent-the holder of  the	one-sixteenth  inam-contended that under s. 1(3) of	 the  MadrasAct  XXVI  of 1948 the State of Madras bad power  to  notifyonly  what  would be estates as defined in s.  3(2)  of	 theMadras	Estates	 Land Act I of 1908 and	 that  one-sixteenthpart of the village of Karuppur included in the notificationwas  not  an  estate  as defined in  that  section  and	 thenotification was therefore ultra vires.Held  (repelling the contention) that when the darmila	inamdoes not relate to the entire village but only to a fractionof  it, it must be held to retain its character as  part  ofthe  estate in the hands of the inamdar and when the  estateis notified under s. 1(4) of the Madras Act XXVI of 1948 theinam will vest in the State under s. 3(b) of the Madras	 ActXXVI  of  1948 and therefore one-sixteenth  portion  of	 thevillage of Karuppur forming a darmila inam will vest in	 theState.Under  the  provisions of the Madras Act XXVI  of  1948	 thedarmila minor inamdar is entitled to claim compensation	 forthe transfer of his portion of the estate to the Government.115908Darmila minor inam is not protected by s. 20 of the Act.Brahmayya v.  Achiraju ([1922] I.L.R. 45 Mad. 716) and Nara-yanaraju v. Suryanarayudu ([1939] 66 I.A. 278), referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 219 of 1954.On  appeal from the Judgment and Order dated the 4th day  ofApril  1952 of the Madras High Court in Civil  MiscellaneousPetition No. 8302 of 1950.V.   K.	 T. Chari, Advocate-General of Madras (R.  GanapathyIyer and P. G. Gokhale, with him) for the appellant.R.   Kesava  lyengar, (M.  S. K. Iyengar, with him) for	 therespondent.1955.  October 21.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyVENKATARAMA  AYYAR  J.-This  appeal  raises  a	question  ofconsiderable  importance  as  to the rights  of	 holders  ofdarmila	 or post-settlement inams of portions of  a  villageunder  the  Madras Estates (Abolition  and  Conversion	intoRyotwari)  Act, 1948 (Madras Act XXVI of 1948),	 hereinafterreferred  to as the Act.  The subject-matter of this  appealis  an	one-sixteenth  share  in  the  village	of  Karuppursituated  within  the ambit of the Zamindari  of  Ramanatha-puram.	 The holders of this ancient Zamindari were,  duringthe  18th Century, the virtual rulers of that part of  SouthIndia,	and  were  known  as Sethupathis  or  the  Lords  ofRameswaram  and	 the adjacent isles and seas.In	 1757  MuthuVijaya	Ragunatha, the then Rajah of Ramanathapuram, made  agrant of the whole of the village of Karuppur to a number ofpersons	 for  various  charitable purposes.   In  1802,	 theestate	was permanently settled, and an istimrari sanad	 wasissued in favour of the Rajah.	Before that date, the doneesunder the grant of 1757 representing an one-sixteenth  sharehad abandoned the village, and in consequence, the inam	 hadeo extanti been resumed.  At the permanent settlement,	thisone-sixteenth part was included in the assets of the909Zamindari,  and taken into account in fixing  the  peishkushthereon.   Subsequent to the permanent settlement,  on	somedate which does not appear on the record, Rani Mangaleswari,the then holder of the Zamindari, made a fresh grant of	 theone-sixteenth  part which had been resumed, to the  inamdarswho held the remaining 15/16th portion of the village  underthe  grant  of 1757.  On 31-12-1863  the  Inam	Commissionerconfirmed the grant of 1757, and issued an inam	 certificatein  respect  of	 the 15/16th portion of	 the  village.	 Theposition, therefore, when the Act was passed was that  whilea  15/16th  portion was held by the inamdars  under  a	pre-settlement  grant confirmed by the British  Government,	 theremaining   one-sixteenth  portion  was	 held  under   post-settlement grant made by the proprietor of the estate.The Act came into force on 19-4-1949.  Under section 1(4) ofthe Act, certain sections thereof were to come into force atonce  and the other sections on such date as the  Governmentmight  by notification appoint in respect of any  zamindari,under-tenure, or inam estate.	   In exercise of the powersconferred by this section,    the    appellant	 issued	   anotification on 22-8-1949     bringing the Act into force asregards the Ramanathapuram estate from 7-9-1949.  Among	 thevillages  mentioned  as	 comprised  in	the  Zamindari	 was"Karuppur  (part)"  described  as an  under-tenure.   It  iscommon ground that the part referred to in this notificationis the one-sixteenth part, which forms the subject-matter ofthis appeal.The respondent who represents the holders of this inam filedthe  application  out of which the  present  appeal  arises,under  article	226  of	 the  Constitution  for	 a  writ  ofcertiorari  quashing  the notification	dated  22-8-1949  asultra vires.  The ground of attack was that under section  1(3)  of	 the Act, the State had power to  notify  only	whatwould  be estates as defined in section 3(2) of	 the  MadrasEstates	 Land Act 1908 (Madras Act I of 1908), and that	 thepart of the village of Karuppur included in the notificationwas not an estate as defined in that section.  Section	3(2)of Act I of 1908, so far as is material, is as follows;910"Estate" means-(a)  any permanently settled estate or	temporarily  settledzamindari;(b)  any  portion  of  such permanently	 settled  estate  ortemporarily settled zamindari which is separately registeredin the office of the Collector;(c)  any unsettled palaiyam or jagir;(d)  any  inam	village of which the grant  has	 been  made,confirmed   or	 recognised  by	 the   British	 Government,notwithstanding	 that subsequent to the grant,	the  villagehas been partitioned among the grantees or the successors intitle of the grantee orgrantees.*		  *		 *		   *(e)  any  portion consisting of one or more villages of	 anyof the estates specified above in clauses. (a), (b) and	 (c)which is held on a permanent under-tenure".The  contention of the respondent was that as the  grant  inquestion  related only to a fraction of a village, it  couldnot  be notified as an under-tenure, as under section 3	 (2)(e) an under-tenure would be an estate only if it related toa  whole village or villages.  The appellant  conceded	thatthe  inam in question was not an under-tenure as defined  insection	 3 (2) (e), as it comprised only part of a  village,but  contended	that  even though it was not  in  itself  anestate,	 it  was,  nevertheless, part of  the  Zamindari  ofRamanathapuram, being a post-settlement grant of portion  ofa  village comprised therein, and that when that estate	 wasnotified, the entirety of it including the inam in  questionmust  vest in the Government under section (b) of  the	Act.The respondent demurred to this contention.  In addition, heraised	the further contention that even if  post-settlementminor inams were within the operation of the Act, they wouldbe  protected  by  section  20 of the  Act,  which  runs  asfollows:"20(1)	In cases not governed by sections IS and 19,  where,before the notified date, a landholder has created any rightin any land (whether by way of lease or otherwise) includingrights in any forest,  911mines  or  minerals,  quarries, fisheries  or  ferries,	 thetransaction shall be deemed to be valid; and all rights	 andobligations  arising  thereunder, on or after  the  notifieddate, shall be enforceable by or against the Government:Provided that the transaction was not void or illegal  underany law in force at the time:Provided further that any such right created on or after the1st  day of July 1945 shall not be enforceable	against	 theGovernment, unless it was created for a period not exceedingone year:Provided also that where such right was created for a periodexceeding one year, unless it relates to the private land ofthe landholder within the meaning of section 3, clause (10),of  the Estates Land Act, the Government may, if,  in  theiropinion,  it is in the public interest to do so,  by  noticegiven  to  the person concerned, terminate  the	 right	witheffect from such date as may be specified in the notice, notbeing earlier than three months from the date thereof".The  argument of the respondent was that  a  post-settlementminor inam would be a right in land created by a  landholderfalling	 within	 section 20, that the  notification  of	 theestate	under section 1(3) would not ipso facto	 divest	 theinamdar	 of  his title to the lands, and that  he  would  beentitled  to  hold  them subject to any	 action	 that  mightproperly be taken by the State under section 20.The learned Judges of the Madras High Court agreed with	 theappellant  that post-settlement minor inams fell within	 theoperation  of the Act; but they accepted the  contention  ofthe respondent that they were governed by section 20 of	 theAct.   As  it  was  common ground that	the  State  had	 notproceeded   under   that  section,  they   held	  that	 thenotification  was ultra vires, and accordingly	quashed	 thesame in so far as it related to the inam forming part of Ka-ruppur village.	 The appellant applied to the High Court forleave  to  appeal to this Court against this  decision,	 andthough	the  value of the subject-matter was far  below	 theappealable  limit, the learned Judges granted a	 certificateunder article 133(1)(c) on the912ground	that the question involved was one of  great  publicimportance.  That is how the appeal comes before us.Two  questions	arise for decision in this appeal:  (1)	 Arepost-settlement	 minor inams within the operation of  MadrasAct  XXVI  of 1948? (2) If they are, are  they	governed  bysection 20 of the Act?On  the first question, the appellant does not contend	thatthe  inam in question is in itself an estate as	 defined  insection	 3(2) of the Madras Estates Land Act and  liable  assuch  to be notified under the Act.  His contention is	thatwhen the Zamindari of Ramanathapuram was notified-and  thereis  no	dispute that it was validly notified, as  it  was  apermanently  settled estate falling within section 3(2)	 (a)of  the Madras Estates Land Act-minor post-settlement  inamsof  lands  within the Zamindari would vest in the  State  aspart  of  the  Zamindari  under section	 3(b)  of  the	Act.Section 3(b) is, omitting what is not material, as follows:"With  effect  on  and from the notified date  and  save  asotherwise expressly provided in this  Act...................the entire estate. shall stand transferred to the Governmentand vest in them, free of all encumbrances".The  point  for decision is  whether  post-settlement  minorinams  are  parts  of  the estate out  of  which  they	weregranted.  If they are, then they will vest in the Governmentunder  section	3(b).	If they are not,  they	will  remainunaffected by the notification of the parent estate.The status of holders of these inams had been the subject ofconsiderable  divergence of judicial opinion in	 the  MadrasHigh  Court.  To appreciate this, reference must be made  tothe following definition of 'landholder' in section 3(5)  ofthe Madras Estates Land Act:"Landholder" means a person owning an estate or part thereofand  includes every person entitled to collect the rents  ofthe  whole  or any portion of the estate by  virtue  of	 anytransfer  from the owner or his predecessor-in-title  or  ofany order of a competent913Court or of any provision of law".Leaving	 out the inclusive portion of the definition as	 notrelevant  to  the  present question, it will  be  seen	thatowners of parts of an estate would also be landholders.	 Thequestion  then	arose  for decision  whether  darmila  minorinamdars were landholders as defined in section 3 (5) of theEstates Land Act.  If they were., the tenants would  acquireoccupancy  rights under section 6, and	proceedings  againstthem  could be taken only in the revenue courts and  not  inthe civil courts, and in general, the rights and obligationsof  the	 inamdar and the tenants would be  governed  by	 theprovisions  of	the Madras Estates Land Act.  One  view	 wasthat  as  the inamdars had to pay quit rent or jodi  to	 thegrantors,  their  status  could not be that  of	 owners	 andtherefore they could not be said to own parts of an  estate.The  contrary view was that the inamdars were  in  substanceowners of the lands granted to them, and that the  liabilityto  make a fixed annual payment did not detract	 from  theircharacter  as owners, and they would be	 landholders  owningparts  of an estate.  In view of this conflict	of  opinion,the question was referred to the decision of a Full Bench inBrahmayya  v.  Achiraju(1), which held by  a  majority	thatminor  darmila	inamdars  were	landholders  as	 defined  insection	 3(5)  of the Estates Land Act.	 This  decision	 wasbased  both  on	 the ground that the inamdars  were  in	 theposition of owners of parts of an estate and that they	werealso persons entitled to collect rent, within the  inclusiveportion of the definition.In  Narayanaraju v. Suryanarayudu(2), the  question  whetherthe  grantee  of a portion of a village	 subsequent  to	 thesettlement was a landholder as defined in section 3(5)	cameup  for decision before the Privy Council.  After  reviewingthe authorities and the conflicting views expressed therein,the Board agreed with the opinion expressed by the  majorityof the learned Judges in Brahmayya v. Achiraju (1), and heldthat the grantee of a post-settlement minor inam would be  alandholder on both the grounds mentioned in their(1) [1922] I.L.R. 45 Mad. 716.(2) [1939] 66 I.A. 278.914judgments.  They discarded "the doctrine that so long as thezamindar  reserves any interest, however insignificant,	 thepermanent  grantee  from  him  cannot  be  the	owner",	 andobserved  that the words "part of the estate"  occurring  inthe definition must be given their prima facie meaning.	 TheBoard felt greater difficulty in accepting the view that theinamdar was a landholder entitled to collect rent within theinclusive  portion  of the definition.	But  they  expressedthemselves  satisfied on either ground that "the Full  Benchdecision  of  1922  represents	a  careful  and	  reasonablesolution  of  a stubborn ambiguity in the Act, and  that  itought  not  now to be overruled having regard  to  the	timewhich  has  elapsed and to the character  of  the  interestsaffected  thereby".  Thus, it was settled law in  Madras  atthe time when Act XXVI of 1948 was passed that minor darmilainamdars  were	owners of parts of  an	estate.	  Construingsection 3(b) in the light of the law as then accepted,	whena  notified estate vests in its entirety in the State  underthat provision, a minor darmila inam which forms part of  itmust also vest in it.Sri  R. Kesava lyengar, learned counsel for the	 respondent,argued that decisions on section 3(5) of 'the Madras EstatesLand Act on the meaning of the word 'landholder' as  definedtherein,  could not be usefully referred to  for  construingthe  true scope of section 3(b) of Act XXVI of 1948, as	 thedefinition in the Madras Estates Land Act was only for	pur-poses  of settling the rights of landlords and tenants,	 andwould  be  irrelevant  for determining	the  rights  of	 theinamdar	 as  against  the State.  But  the  ground  of	,thedecision  in  Brahmayya v. Achiraju(1) and  Narayanaraju  v.Suryanarayudu(2)  is that the grantee of the inam is in	 theposition  of an owner of the part of the estate	 granted  tohim,  and that would be relevant when the controversy is  asto  his	 true  status, whether the dispute  is	between	 thelandlord  and  the  tenant or between the  inamdar  and	 theState.	If the inamdar is owner in relation to his  tenants,it  would  be  illogical to hold that he  is  not  that,  inrelation to(1) [1922] I.L.R. 45 Mad. 716.	 (2) [1939] 66 I.A. 278.915the  State.  The question is, in our opinion,  concluded  bysection 2(8) -of Act XXVI of 1948 which defines a landholderas  including  a darmila inamdar, and that  is	a  statutoryrecognition  of	 the  doctrine laid  down  in  Brahmayya  v.Achiraju(1)   and  Narayanaraju	 v.  Suryanarayudu(2)	thatdarmila	 inamdars  are owners ,of parts of an  estate.	 Theresult then is that when the darmila inam does not relate tothe entire village but only to a fraction of it, it must  beheld  to retain its character as part of the estate  in	 thehands of the inamdar, and when the estate is notified  undersection	 1 (4) of the Act, the inam will vest in  the  Stateunder -section 3(b).It  is next argued for the,, respondent that the Act  ,makesno  provision for award - of compensation to  minor  darmilainamdars  and  that as a statute is not to be  construed  astaking	away  the proper" of any -person unless there  is  aprovision  for	payment of  compensation  therefor,,  these.inams should be -held to be outside the operation of the ActReference  was made in this connection to section 45 of	 theAct  under which the compensation payable in respect  of  animpartible  estate  and	 Ramanathapuram	 is  one  is  to  beapportioned after payment of debts among the members of	 thefamily.	  It is said that under this section the  respondentwould  have  no right to share in it.	This  contention  isclearly erroneous.  The material provisions relating to	 theaward  of  compensation	 ,are sections 25, 27,	37  and	 44.Under  section 25, the compensation is to be determined	 forthe  estate  as a whole and not separately for each  of	 theinterests  therein.   Section  27 lays down  bow  the  basicincome	in  the case of zamindaris is to  be  fixed.   Undersection	 27(i),	 it has to include one-third  of  the  grossannual ryotwari demand in respect of all lands in the estateand  under  section 27(iv) "one-third of  the  average	-netannual miscellaneous revenue derived from all -other sourcesin the estate specified in section 3 (b) ". Thus, the incomefrom  the lands comprised in the minor inam which is a	partof  the	 estate	 is  included in the  total  income  of	 thezamindari.  Under section(1) [1922] I.L.R. 45 Mad. 716.(2) (1939] 66 I.A. 278.11691637,  the  compensation payable in respect of  an  estate  iscalculated  in	terms  of  the basic  income  on  the  scaleprescribed therein.  Section 44 enacts that the Tribunal  isto   "apportion	 this  compensation  among   the   principallandholder' and any other persons whose rights or  interestsin  the	 estate stand transferred to  the  Government  undersection	  3(b)".   There  cannot  be  any  doubt  on   theseprovisions that the darmila minor inamdar is a person who isentitled  to  claim  compensation for the  transfer  of	 hisportion of the estate to the Government.  Then comes section45  on	which  the respondent bases  his  contention.	Thatapplies	 only  to  the	distribution  of  the	compensationdetermined  under  section 44 as payable  to  the  principallandholder,  when he is the holder of an impartible  estate.It leaves untouched the rights of minor darmila inamdars  toclaim compensation under section 44.  The contention of	 therespondent  that the Act provides no compensation  to  them,and  that they should therefore be held to fall outside	 theAct must accordingly be rejected.(2)That brings us on to the second question whether a  post-settlement  minor  inam	 is a right in	land  created  by  alandholder  within the intendment of section 20 of the	Act.At  the very outset, it seems somewhat inconsistent to	holdthat  a	 darmila minor inam is part of an estate,  and	alsothat  it  is governed by section 20.  If it is	part  of  anestate,	 it must automatically vest in the Government  undersection 3(b).  But if it falls within section 20, the  titleto it will continue to stand in the inamdar with a right  inthe  Government	 to  take action under	the  third  proviso,subject to the conditions laid down therein.  It was  arguedfor the respondent that section 3 operates on its own  termsonly "save as otherwise expressly provided herein", and thatsection	 20 was such a provision.  It is somewhat  difficultto  follow this argument, because if section 20	 applied  todarmila	 minor inams, then they could never fall within	 theoperation  of  section 3(b).  And how is this result  to  bereconciled with the conclusion that they are parts of 917the  estate,  and  that	 the inamdar  is  a  landholder	 forpurposes of the Act?But  it is argued for the respondent that the words  "rightsin  land created by landlord" are of the widest	 import	 andwould  take in darmila minor inams.  The point for  decisionis  whether this contention is correct.	 We start with	thisthat a darinila minor inamdar is a landholder as defined  insection	 2,(8) of the Act, and he is that, by reason of	 hisbeing the owner of a part of the estate.  Can such a  personbe held to be one who has obtained a right in the land	fromthe  landholder	 within section 20?  The Act makes  a  cleardistinction  between estates held by landholders and  rightsand  interests	held by other persons in  or  over  estates.Section 3(b) enacts that when there is a notification  undersection	 1(4), the entire estate shall stand transferred  tothe  Government and vest in it.	 We have held that the	partof  the estate belonging to a darmila inamdar would vest  inthe Government.	 Section 3(c) provides that on	notificationall rights in or over the estate shall cease and  terminate.Section 3(b) and section 3(c) deal with two distinct matterswhich  may  respectively  be described	in  broad  terms  asownership  of  the estate and rights in or over	 estate	 notamounting  to  ownership,  and	these  two  categories	 aremutually exclusive.  Now, turning to section 20, it protectsrights	in land by way of lease or otherwise created by	 thelandholder  before the notified date.  In this context,	 andhaving	regard	to  the distinction  between  estates  undersection 3(b) and rights over estates under section 3(c), therights mentioned in section 20 can only refer to the  rightsdealt  with in section 3(c), and not to ownership  which  iswithin	section 3(b).  When, therefore, the transaction	 forwhich  protection is claimed under section 20 is  one  whichvests  ownership of the estate or a portion thereof  in	 thetransferee,  it	 will fall outside the	section.   In  otherwords,	section	 20 has no application	to  transactions  bywhich  a person becomes a landholder by reason of  ownershipof  even a part of the estate being transferred to him,	 andthat being the character of a, darmila minor inam it is	 notpro-918tected by section 20.There  are  also indications in the language of	 section  20pointing  to  the same conclusion.  Section  20(2)  providesthat  the  persons  whose rights are  terminated  under	 theproviso	 to section 20(1) shall be entitled to	compensationhaving regard to the value of the right which is  terminatedand the unexpired portion of the period for which the  rightis  created.   These words are more appropriate	 to  connoterights which are to be exercised for specified periods, suchas  lease  or  contract for the	 exploitation  of  mines  orforests for a term than "ownership of the estate".There  is  one other consideration, which lends	 support  tothis  conclusion.   The object of the Act was  to  establishdirect relationship between the State and the tillers of thesoil,  and to abolish all intermediate tenures.	 In  Madras,the  rights and obligations of intermediate  tenure  holderswere  regulated	 by the Madras Estates Land Act,  and  underthat  Act  the intermediaries consisted not  merely  of	 theholders	 of the estates as defined in section 3(2)  of	thatAct  but  also	holders of post-settlement  minor  inams  assettled	 by  decisions	of the highest	authority.   If	 thepurpose	 of  the Act is to be fully achieved,  it  would  benecessary  to  abolish	not merely  estates  as	 defined  insection 3(2) of the Madras Estates Land Act but also darmilaminor inams.  But if the contention of the respondent is  tobe  accepted,  it is only the estates mentioned	 in  section3(2) that will, on notification, vest in the Government	 andnot the minor inams.  These will continue to be held by	 theinamdars  under	 section  20 until they	 are  terminated  inaccordance  with the proviso therein, and survive as  isletsin  the	 landscape even after the parent estates  have	dis-appeared  from	the  scene.  The legislation  must  to	thisextent	be held to have failed to achieve its purpose.	 Andthis  is  not all.  If the contention of the  respondent  iscorrect,  then	the  minor  inamdars  will  not	 merely	  beunaffected  by the Act but will actually be better  off	 forit.  Under section 3(a) of the Act, the Madras Estates	LandAct stands repealed on and from the notified date, and as itis by virtue of this919Act  that the tenants became entitled to  occupancy  rights,the  inamdars  would,  on notification,	 be  free  to  ejecttenants,  and settle their own terms with them.	  We  cannotaccede	to  a  contention which results not  merely  in	 thefrustration  of the object of the Act but  further  producesconsequences,  the  reverse of what were intended.   On	 theother hand, the contention of the appellant that minor inamsfall  outside section 20 and would vest straightaway in	 theState	under	section	 3(b)  will  have  the	 effect	  ofextinguishing  the rights of the inamdars, and enabling	 theState to issue ryotwari pattas to the tenants in occupation.We prefer to accept this contention, as it fully effectuatesthe  intention of the legislature.  In the result,  we	musthold  that  the	 one-sixteenth portion	of  the	 village  ofKaruppur forming a darmila inam will vest in the  Governmentunder  section 3(b) of the Act, and that the only  right  ofthe inamdars is to share in the compensation under the termsof the Act.  The petition of the respondent in so far as  itrelates to this inam must be dismissed.This  appeal is accordingly allowed, and in accordance	withthe  terms of the certificate granting leave, the  appellantwill  pay  the costs of the respondent in this	Court.	 Theparties will bear their own costs in the court below.