PETITIONER:RATAN GOND	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BIHARDATE OF JUDGMENT:19/09/1958BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.IMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1959 AIR   18		  1959 SCR 1336 CITATOR INFO : R	    1984 SC1622	 (18)ACT:Evidence-Statement of dead person not made in judicial	pro-ceeding or to Person authorised nor relating to the cause ofhis  death-Admissibility-Confession-Person  in	authority  -Circumstantial Evidence-Use in corroboration of	 confession-Indian Evidence Act, (1 of 1872), SS. 24, 32 and 33.HEADNOTE:The  appellant	was  charged  with  the	 murder	 of  a	girlBaisakhi.  On information given by Aghani, younger sister ofthe  deceased,	the headless body of the  deceased  was	 re-covered.   The appellant absconded but was found in  anothervillage and was brought back by the village volunteer force.On interrogation by the Mukhia, Sarpanch and a panch of	 theGram   Panchayat   the	appellant  made	  an   extrajudicialconfession.   A blood-stained cutting weapon  was  recoveredfrom a room of the appellant.  At his instance some  strandsof hair were recovered from a place at a short distance1337from the place where the dead body had been recovered, whichwere stained with human blood and appeared to be scalp	hairof  a  human  female.	The  appellant	was  convicted	 andsentenced to death and the High Court upheld the  convictionand  sentence.	 The  Courts  took  into  consideration	 thestatements made by Aghani to her mother and to other personsthat  the  deceased  was last seen in  the  company  of	 theappellant.  Aghani, however, died before her statement couldbe  recorded in a judicial proceeding.	It was contended  bythe   appellant	  that	the  statements	  of   Aghani	wereinadmissible,  that  the extra-judicial confession  was	 notrelevant  and  that  the  circumstantial  evidence  was	 notsufficient to establish the guilt of the appellant.Held,  that  the statements of Aghani  were  not  admissibleeither under S. 32 or S. 33 Of the Evidence Act.  Section 33had  no	 application as her statement was not  made  in	 anyjudicial  proceeding or before any person authorised by	 lawto  record the same.  The statements did not relate  to	 thecause  of her death or to any circumstances relating to	 herdeath  but  related to the death of her sister and  did	 notfall  under cl. 1 of s. 32 which was the only  clause  whichcould have any bearing on the question.Held,  further,	 that  though having  regard  to  the  BiharPanchayat  Raj	Act, the Mukhia, Sarpanch and panch  of	 theGram  Panchayat	 to whom the extra-judicial  confession	 wasmade  were persons in authority within the meaning Of S.  24Evidence  Act, no threat, promise or inducement	 for  makingthe confession was proved.  The facts that the appellant wasbrought	 back to the Village by the village volunteer  forceand  that  it  took two or three hours before  he  made	 theconfession  do	not  indicate that the	confession  was	 notvoluntary.   There was nothing to show that  the  confessioncontained   any	  untrue  or  inaccurate   statement.	 Thecircumstantial	evidence may not be sufficient by itself  toprove the guilt of the appellant, but it afforded sufficientcorroboration to the confession and the corroboration was ofsuch a nature as to connect the appellant with the murder.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 76  of1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedMarch  4, 1958, of the Patna High Court in  Criminal  AppealNo. 50 of 1958 and Death Reference No. 3 of 1958 arising outof  the	 judgment and order dated January 18, 1958,  of	 theCourt  of  the	1st  Additional	 Judicial  Commissioner	  ofChotanagpur at Ranchi in Sessions Trial No. XC of 1957.B.   R. L. Iyengar, for the appellant.1338R. H. Dhebar for the respondent.1958.	September  19.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byS.   K.	 DAS  J.-This is an appeal by  special	leave.	 Theappellant  is Ratan Gond, aged about 28 years.	Tried  on  acharge under s. 302, Indian Penal Code, he was convicted andsentenced  to  death  by  the  learned	Additional  JudicialCommissioner  of Ranchi in the State of Bihar.	The  learnedAdditional Judicial Commissioner submitted the record to theHigh Court of Patna for confirmation of the sentence, as  hewas  required  to do under the provisions of s. 374  of	 theCode  of Criminal Procedure.  Ratan Gond also  preferred  anappeal	to  the High Court.  The appeal	 and  the  referenceunder  s. 374, Criminal Procedure Code, were heard  togetherby  a Division Bench of the said High Court and it  acceptedthe  reference and dismissed the appeal	 thereby  confirmingthe sentence of death passed upon the appellant.  On May 19,1958,  the appellant prayed for and obtained  special  leaveand then filed the present appeal in pursuance of the  leavegranted to him.The facts lie within a, narrow compass.	 The appellant was aresident  of  village Urte, Tola  Banmunda,  police  stationKolebera in the district of Ranchi.  One Mst.  Jatri (P.  W.2), who was a widow, also lived in the same village and sameTola.	She had two young daughters, one named Baisakhi	 andthe  other named Aghani.  Baisakhi was about nine years	 oldand Aghain about five years old.  The subject of the presentappeal	is the murder of the girl Baisakhi.  On	 a  Tuesday,May 7, 1957, the two sisters, Baisakhi and Aghani, had	goneout  to Pluck wild berries in a hilly jungle situated  at  ashort  distance	 from  their  village,	the  distance  beingestimated variously by various witnesses from 300 yards to alittle more than a mile.  We may give here some idea of	 thelocation  of  the  village  and	 the  hilly  area  near	 it.According  to the evidence of Rup Ram (P.  W. 1),  uncle  ofthe  two girls, Tola Banmunda consists of about	 40  houses.At  a  short distance to the north, there is a	hilly  tractknown1339as Amtis Chua hill.  Close to the hill, there are jungles ontwo sides and there is also a spring or well in between	 thetwo  strips of jungles.	 On Tuesday, Mst.  Jatri (P.  W.  2)had herself gone to pluck berries known as Keond berries  atanother place.	When she left the house in the morning,	 hertwo  daughters were in the house.  Mst.	 Jatri came back  atabout  noon  and  found	 Aghani alone  in  the	house.	 Sheenquired  from	Aghani about the elder sister  Baisakhi	 andAghani	made certain statements to her mother as well as  toother  persons	later that day and the	next  day.   Aghani,however, died within a few months of the occurrence,  beforeher  statements could be recorded in a judicial	 proceeding.The  courts below have referred to, and the High  Court	 hasrelied	on,  the statements of Aghani.	One  of	 the  pointsurged  on behalf of the appellant is that the statements  ofAghani were not admissible in evidence either under s. 32 ors.  33	of the Evidence Act (I of 1872).  As we are  of	 theview  that this contention is correct, we are  omitting	 allreference  to the statements of Aghani in stating the  factsof the case.  When Baisakhi did not return to the house evenin  the evening Mst.  Jatri went in the direction  of  AmtisChua  hill,  but  could not find  Baisakhi.   Next  morning,information  was sent to Rup Ram (P.  W. 1) about  the	factthat  Baisakhi was missing, Rup Ram having gone	 to  villageTarga  for  making tiles on the preceding Monday.   Rup	 Ramcame  back  to Banmunda on Wednesday, May 8, 1957.   In	 themeantime  certain other villagers including Dalpat  Sai	 (P.W. 4), mukhia of the village, and Sohar (P. W. 5), chaukidarof the village, had been informed that Baisakhi was missing.Aghani took Rup Ram and these villagers to the foot of AmtisChua hill and showed them the spring or well.  This  villageparty  found  the  headless  body of  Baisakhi	at  a  shortdistance from the aforesaid spring.  The body was identifiedby  Mst.  Jatri and others as the dead body of	Baisakhi  byreason	of the white saree of yellow border  which  Baisakhiwas  wearing, five red " churis " round the right hand,	 twored " churis " round the1701340left hand, one " bera " round the left hand, one brass	ringon  the	 left finger and certain beads of a " mala  "  whichBaisakhi  had  put  on.	 When the  headless  dead  body	 wasdiscovered  and	 identified,  Dalpat Sai left  some  of	 hiscompanions  to guard the dead body and went to the house  ofthe appellant, but did not find him there.  He then sent RupRam  and the chaukidar to the police station which was at  adistance  of 43 miles.	He also sent some volunteers of	 theGram Panchayat to look for the appellant.  On Thursday,	 May9, 1957, at about 10 a.m., Rup Ram and the chaukidar appear-ed  at	the police station of Kolebera and Rup Ram  gave  aninformation,  which  was  recorded  by	the  Assistant	Sub-Inspector  of  Police.	 This information  referred  to	 thestatements  of Aghani and to the other facts which had	beendiscovered  by	that  time.   On  the  same  Thursday,	 theappellant was found in the house of his sister's husband  inanother village called Karmapani.  The appellant was  caughthold  of  by  the village volunteers  and  brought  back  tovillage Banmunda on Thursday.  At about 1 or 2 p. m. on thatday,  he was questioned by Dalpat Sai (P.W.4) mukhia of	 theGram  Panchayat, Krishna Chandra Singh (P.  W. 7),  Sarpanchof  the Gram Panchayat, and Praduman Singh (P.	W. 13),	 oneof  the panches of the Panchayat, and it is stated that	 theappellant made an extra-judicial confession to these personsto  the	 effect that he had killed the	child  Baisakhi	 forgreed  of money, as a contractor who was building a,  bridgeon the Lurki river had offered Rs. 80 for a human head.	 Theappellant was detained by the aforesaid village	 authoritiestill  the Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police arrived  at	 thevillage	 on  Friday,  May  10,	1957.	The  Assistant	Sub-Inspector arrived at about 3 a.m. He was taken to the  placewhere the headless dead body of Baisakhi lay.  The AssistantSub-Inspector  made an inquest on the dead body	 and  seizedthe articles found there including 29 beads of the " mala "'which Baisakhi was wearing and which lay scattered near	 theplace.	 The Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police arrested	 theappellant,  who was already in custody of the  mukhia.	 Thehouse of the1341Weapon	called " balua " was found in the north facing	roomof  the house, between a wall and the roof.  This " balua  "had  certain  blood-stains  on it,  but	 the  stains  havingdisintegrated,	the  origin  of	 the  blood  could  not	  bedetermined.  It is stated that on being questioned where thehead  of  the  girl Baisakhi was,  the	appellant  took	 theAssistant Sub-Inspector of Police and some of the  villagersto a place at a short distance of 100 yards or so from wherethe  dead  body	 was.  At that place  were  discovered	somestrands	 of  bloodstained  hair which  were  seized  by	 theAssistant  SubInspector	 of  Police.  The  strands  of	hairlooked like the hair on the bead of a female person and	 theChemical  Examiner later reported that the strands  of	hairwere stained with human blood and "appeared to be scalp hairof  human (female) origin morphologically ".  After  furtherinvestigation by two different Sub-Inspectors of Police, theappellant was sent up for trial.  There was an enquiry by  aMagistrate of the first class, who, at the conclusion of theenquiry,  committed the appellant for trial by the Court  ofSession.The  defence of the appellant was that he had  been  falselyimplicated.   He  denied that he killed	 Baisakhi  near	 thejungle	at Amtis Chua hill.  He further denied that  he	 hadmade  any extra-judicial confession to Dalpat  Sai,  KrishnaChandra Singh and Praduman Singh.  He denied that any blood-stained weapon was found in his house by the Assistant	Sub-Inspector  of Police and he also denied that he	 was  absentfrom  his village or was found in the house of his  sister'shusband in village Karmapani.The  learned Additional Judicial Commissioner, as  also	 theHigh  Court,  rightly  stated  that  the  case	against	 theappellant rested on (a) circumstantial evidence and (b)	 theextra-judicial	confession stated to have been made  by	 theappellant.   The  courts below concurrently  held  that	 theextra-judicial	confession  was	 voluntary and	it  did	 notappear to them to have been caused by any inducement, threator promise having reference to the charge made against1342he appellant so as to attract the provisions of s. 24 of theEvidence Act.  They further held that the confession, thoughlater denied by the appellant, was sufficiently corroboratedby  the circumstantial evidence and the confession  and	 thecircumstantial	evidence  read	together  led  to  only	 onereasonable inference', namely, that the appellant had killedthe child Baisakhi in the hope of getting some money.It is not disputed that in an appeal filed by special  leaveunder  Art. 136 of the Constitution it is not normally	opento  the appellant to raise questions of fact or to  ask	 forinterference by us with concurrent findings of fact,  unlessthe   findings	are  vitiated  by  errors  of  law  or	 theconclusions  reached  by the courts below  are	so  patentlyopposed	 to  well-established principles as to amount  to  amiscarriage  of justice.  Mr. Iyengar for the appellant	 hasurged  before  us  three  main	points.	  Firstly,  he	 hassubmitted  that the extra-judicial confession said  to	havebeen  made by the appellant is not admissible  in  evidence.Secondly, he has contended that even if admissible, there isno  guarantee of its truth.  Thirdly, he has submitted	thateven  with  regard to circumstantial  evidence,	 the  courtsbelow have relied on inadmissible evidence, with  particularreference  to the statements of Aghani, to establish one  ofthe circumstances, namely, that the appellant was last	seenwith  Baisakhi before her murder.  His argument is that	 theother  circumstances  established  against  the	  appellant,namely, the recovery of the blood-stained " balua ", of	 theblood-stained hair and the absence of the appellant from thevillage	 on  Wednesday, do not carry the  case	against	 theappellant  far enough so as to complete the chain  and	makethem  inconsistent with any hypothesis other than the  guiltof the appellant.  He has submitted that in considering	 thecircumstantial	evidence in this case the courts below	havedeparted  from	the  well  established	principle  that	 thecircumstances affirmatively proved against an accused personmust  be of such a character as to be consistent  only	withhis guilt and inconsistent with any reasonable hypothesis ofhis innocence.1343Before we examine the aforesaid submissions, it is necessaryto state that the finding of the courts below that  Baisakhiwas  murdered some time between May 7 and May 8,  1957,	 andthat  the headless dead body which was discovered on May  8,1957, was correctly identified as the dead body of the	girlBaisakhi has not been challenged before us.  The  postmortemexamination  on the dead body was held on May 11, 1957,	 andthe  ante-mortem  injuries which the doctor found  were	 (1)complete severance of the head from the neck,(2)one  incisedwound  on the left shoulder and (3) anincised wound  on	 theleft upper arm.	 The doctor's evidence makes it quite  clearthat  the unfortunate girl was brutally done to death.	 Theidentification	of  the headless dead body also rests  on  avery  sure  foundation.	  We have already  referred  to	 theclothing, ring, beads, etc., from which the identity of	 thedead body was established.  The murder of the girl  Baisakhihaving	been clearly established, the courts  below  rightlyapplied	 their	mind  to a consideration  of  the  principalquestion   in  the  case,  namely,  if	the  appellant	 wasresponsible for that murder.This brings us to a consideration of the submissions made onbehalf of the appellant.  We may say at the very outset thatwe  agree  with learned counsel for the appellant  that	 thestatements  of Aghani, who unfortunately died within  a	 fewmonths	of  the occurrence before her  statements  could  berecorded  in a judicial proceeding, were not  admissible  inevidence  either under s. 32 or s. 33 of the  Evidence	Act.Section 33 is clearly out of the way because Aghani made  nostatements  in	a judicial proceeding or before	 any  personauthorised  by law to take her evidence.  The only  relevantclause of s. 32 which may be said to have any bearing is cl.(1)  which relates to statements made by a person as to	 thecause of his death or as to any of the circumstances of	 thetransaction which resulted in his death.  In the case beforeus, the statements made by Aghani do not relate to the causeof her death or to any of the circumstances relating to	 herdeath ; on the contrary, the statements relate to the  deathof her sister.	We are, therefore, of the opinion1344that  the  statements  do not come within s.  32(1)  of	 theEvidence Act and, indeed, Mr. Dhebar appearing on behalf  ofthe State, has conceded that s. 32(1) does not apply to	 thestatements of Aghani.Excluding  the	statements  of	Aghani,	 what  then  is	 theevidence against the appellant ? Firstly, we have the extra-judicial   confession.	  Then,	 we   have   the   followingcircumstances which the courts below have held to have	beenclearly	 established  against  the  appellant,	namely,	 (a)recovery  of the blood-stained " balua " from a room of	 theappellant, (b) recovery of the blood-stained strands of hairfrom   a  place	 pointed  out  by  the	appellant  and	 (c)disappearance of the appellant from the village	 immediatelyafter  the  murder and his arrest in  village  Karmapani  incircumstances  mentioned  by  Maheshwar	 Sai  (P.   W.	 6).Lastly,	 there is another adverse circumstance which  arisesout of the total denial by the appellant of the recovery  ofthe  blood-stained  " balua " and of his arrest	 in  villageKarmapani.    As  to  the  extra-judicial  confession,	 twoquestions  arise: is it voluntary, and, if so, is it true  ?The  appellant	denied at a later stage that he had  made  aconfession, but it is not necessary to consider in this casethe abstract question as to whether, as against its maker, aconviction can be based on a confession which is found to bevoluntary and true.  It is enough to state that usually	 andas  a  matter  of  caution,  courts  require  some  materialcorroboration	 to   such   a	  confessional	  statement,corroboration  which  connects the accused person  with	 thecrime  in  question, and the real question which  falls	 fordecision in the present case is if the circumstances  provedagainst the appellant afford sufficient corroboration to theconfessional  statement	 of the appellant, in case  we	holdthat the confessional statement is voluntary and true.Let  us first see if the confession was voluntary.   Section24 of the Evidence Act states:"A  confession made by an accused person is irrelevant in  acriminal proceeding, if the making of the confession appearsto  the Court to have been caused by any inducement,  threator  promise  having  reference to  the	charge	against	 theaccused person,1345proceeding from a person in authority and sufficient, in theopinion	 of  the Court, to give the accused  person  groundswhich  would appear to him reasonable for supposing that  bymaking it he would gain any advantage or avoid any evil of atemporal nature in reference to the proceedings against	 him".Mr.  Iyengar  has referred us to the evidence of  the  threewitnesses,  Dalpat Sai (P.W. 4), Krishna Chandra  Singh	 (P.W. 7), and Praduman Singh (P.  W. 13), Mukhia, Sarpanch	 andPanch respectively of the Gram Panchayat.  We agree with Mr.Iyengar	 that having regard to the provisions of  the  BiharPanchayat  Raj Act (Bihar VIII of 1948) the aforesaid  threepersons	 can be said to be persons in authority	 within	 themeaning	 of s. 24.  The question, however, is-are there	 anycircumstances  which  tend to show that the  making  of	 theconfession  appears to have been caused by  any	 inducement,threat	or promise, having reference to the  charge  againstthe  appellant and proceeding from any one of the  aforesaidthree persons and sufficient in the opinion of the court  togive  the appellant grounds which would appear to him to  bereasonable for supposing that by making it he would gain anyadvantage  or  avoid  any  evil	 of  a	temporal  nature  inreference to the proceedings against him.  The courts  belowhave  categorically answered this question in the  negative.We  have  examined  the	 evidence  of  the  three  witnessesmentioned above.  That evidence shows that the appellant wasbrought	 to the house of Dalpat Sai (P.	 W. 4) at  about  10a.m.  on Thursday (May 9, 1957).  He was questioned for sometime;  Dalpat Sai (P.W. 4) said that he was  questioned	 forabout two hours.  The evidence of Dalpat Sai makes it clear,however, that it was not a process of continuous questioningfor two hours.	Ratan was given some food and then, when  hewas  questioned, he kept quiet for some time and  then	saidthat  he had killed the girl because the contractor who	 wasbuilding the bridge on river Lurki had offered to pay a	 sumof Rs. 80 for a human head.  Having examined the evidence ofthe three witnesses who prove the extra-judicial confession,we do not come to1346a conclusion different from the one arrived at by the courtsbelow.	Mr. Iyengar referred us to the observations made  byCave J. (as he then was) in The Queen v. Thompson(1).	Thatwas a case in which a prisoner was tried for embezzling	 themoney of a company.  It was proved at the trial that,  beingtaxed  with  the crime by the Chairman of the  company,	 theprisoner  said	that he had taken the money.   The  Chairmanstated	that  at the time of the confession,  no  threat  orpromise	 was made, but he said to the prisoner's brother,  "It  will  be  the right thing for your	brother	 to  make  astatement  "  and  the court drew  the	inference  that	 theprisoner,  when	 he  made  the	confession,  knew  that	 theChairman  had spoken these words to his brother.   In  thesecircumstances, the learned Judge said: " I prefer to put  myjudgment  on  the  ground  that	 it  is	 the  duty  of	 theprosecution to prove, in case of doubt, that the  prisoner'sstatement  was	free and voluntary, and that  they  did	 notdischarge themselves of this obligation ". He further  addedthat there were always reasons to suspect those	 confessionswhich  were  supposed to be the offspring of  penitence	 andremorse,  and  which  nevertheless were	 repudiated  by	 theprisoner  at the trial.	 It is true that in the	 case  underour  consideration  the appellant denied to  have  made	 theconfession  which he had made earlier; but we find  no	suchcircumstances  as were present in Thompson's case (1),	suchas  the	 statement  of the Chairman of the  company  to	 thebrother of the prisoner.  It is true that the appellant	 wasbrought	 back  from  village Karmapani	by  members  of	 thevillage	 volunteer  force.  He	was  taken  to	the  villageauthorities to whom he made a confession.  The evidence doesnot  even  remotely  suggest that  any	threat,	 promise  orinducement was made.  The only circumstance relied on by Mr.Iyengar	 is that it took about two to three hours  from	 thetime  when  the appellant was brought to the  house  of	 themukhia	up  to	the  time  when	 he  made  his	confessionalstatement.   Mr. Iyengar has relied on In re  Kataru  ChinnaPapiah (2), where a Superintendent of Police questioned	 theaccused person for four hours at night(1) (1893) 2 Q. B. 12, 18.(2) A.I.R. 1940 Mad. 136.1347and again for two hours in the morning.	 It was pointed	 outthat  this was a flagrant violation of the relevant rule  inthe  instructions  issued to police officers.  All  that  weneed  say  is  that there was no  such	questioning  in	 thepresent	 case.	 Another decision to which Mr.	Iyengar	 hasinvited our attention is Hashmat Khan v. The Crown (1).	  Wedo not think that that decision is of any assistance to	 Mr.Iyengar.   It  was held therein that a mere  possibility  ofthere  having  been  some inducement is	 not  sufficient  toattract s. 24 of the Evidence Act; but only when it  appearsto  the court that the confession has been made as a  resultof some inducement held out by a person in authority that itbecomes	 irrelevant.  That was a case in which	the  accusedperson,	 when questioned, was told that it would  be  betterfor him if he told the truth; it was held that this amountedto  an inducement within the meaning of s. 24 of the  IndianEvidence Act.As to the truth of the confession, nothing has been  broughtto  our	 notice	 which	would  show  that  the	confessionalstatement contained any untrue or inaccurate statement.	  Itis  true that the prosecution has given no evidence to	showthat  the contractor who was building the bridge over  riverLurki, or for that matter, any contractor, had offered a sumof  Rs. 80 for a human head.  In the very nature of  things,it is not expected that any contractor, even if he had	madesuch  an  offer, will admit having done so, and	 we  do	 notthink that the prosecution can be asked to give evidence  insupport	 of any such offer.  We recognise that	in  ordinaryand  normal circumstances nobody asks for a human  head	 forbuilding  abridge; nor is it usual normally for a person  toaccept	such  an  offer, even if it is made.   We  must	 notforget,	 however,  that	 we are dealing in  this  case	withaboriginal  people who are ,still steeped  in  superstition.It is worthy of note that Maheshwar Sai (P.  W. 6) said thatwhen   the  appellant  was  taken  in  custody	in   villageKarmapani,  he did not even enquire why he was arrested;  onthe contrary, he offered Rs. 20 and a he-goat to the witnessand(1) (1934) I.L.R. 15 Lah. 856.1711348implored the latter to save him.  Such a statement was againof an incriminatory nature, and if the evidence of MaheshwarSai  is correct, the statement was absolutely voluntary	 andwas  not  the result of any questioning at all.	  For  thesereasons,  we do not think that the reference to an offer  ofRs. 80 for a human head in the confessional statement of theappellant necessarily destroys its veracity.There can be no doubt that the recovery of the blood-stained" balua " (even though the origin of the blood could not  bedetermined owing to disintegration) and of the blood-stainedstrands	 of  female  hair at the place pointed	out  by	 theappellant,  are	 circumstances clearly	proved	against	 theappellant.   These  circumstances may not be  sufficient  bythemselves to prove that the appellant was the murderer, butthere  is no doubt that they lend assurance to	the  confes-sional statement of the appellant, assurance of a kind whichconnects the appellant with the crime in question.  This  isa case in which the confession and the circumstances have tobe read together.  There is the additional circumstance thatsoon  after  the murder the appellant disappeared  from	 hisvillage	 and when arrested in another village,	his  conductwas  such  as to show that he was suffering  from  a  guiltymind.  On the top of all this, there is the total denial  bythe appellant that any blood-stained " balua " was recoveredfrom his house or that he disappeared from the village afterthe  murder.  It is unfortunate that the learned  AdditionalJudicial  Commissioner did not ask the appellant to  explainthe  recovery of the blood-stained strands of  female  hair.That was an important circumstance against the appellant andwhen  the learned Additional Judicial Commissioner  examinedthe appellant under the provisions of s. 342 of the Code  ofCriminal  Procedure  he should have asked the  appellant  toexplain	 this  circumstance.  We take  this  opportunity  ofinviting  the attention of the learned	Additional  JudicialCommissioner   to  this	 very  serious	omission.    Anotheromission  on  the part of the  learned	Additional  JudicialCommissioner is his failure to comply with the provisions ofs. 287 of the Code of1349Criminal Procedure.  The examination of the accused recordedby  or before the Committing Magistrate does not  appear  tohave been tendered by the prosecutor in the present case; atleast  we  do  not find any such statement  in	the  printedpaper-book.   We are satisfied, however, that  no  prejudicehas been caused.  The Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police	 whogave  evidence of the recovery of blood-stained hair from  aplace  pointed out by the appellant was not even  cross-exa-mined  on  the point.  The defence of the  appellant  was  atotal  denial and even if the recovery of the  blood-stainedstrands	 of female hair was put to the appellant,  he  wouldundoubtedly have denied such recovery as having been made athis pointing out the place.To  sum up: we see no reasons to differ from the  conclusionarrived	 at  by	 the  courts  below  that  the	confessionalstatement   made   by  the  appellant  was   voluntary	 andadmissible;  there are no reasons for thinking that  it	 wasnot  true.   The circumstances clearly	proved	against	 theappellant,  even excluding the circumstance which rested  onthe statements of Aghani, afford sufficient corroboration tothe  confession of the appellant, though denied at  a  laterstage,	and  the  corroboration is of such a  nature  as  toconnect the appellant with the murder of the child Baisakhi.The  only reasonable inference which can be drawn  from	 theconfession read with the circumstantial evidence is that theappellant  killed  the child Baisakhi between May 7  and  8,1957, in the hope of getting some money.  Whether that	hopewas realised or not is more than we can tell.  The head	 wasnever  recovered,  but there can be no doubt that  the	deadbody was correctly identified to be the dead body ofthe child Baisakhi.As  to the sentence, in view of the circumstances  in  whichthe  child  Baisakhi was killed, we do not  think  ,that  weshall  be  justified in interfering with it in	the  presentcase.  For these reasons, we hold that the appeal is withoutmerit and must be dismissed.Appeal dismissed.1350