PETITIONER:DR. Y. S. PARMAR	Vs.RESPONDENT:SHHIRA SINGH PAUL AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:17/10/1958BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1959 AIR  244		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 213 CITATOR INFO : D	    1975 SC2299	 (412)ACT:       Election-Coyrupt Practice-Procuring assistance of Government       servant-Candidate  appointing person as Polling	agent,	not       knowing him to be Government servant-Mens rea, if  ncccssary       ingredient-Representation  of the People Act (43	 of  1951),       ss. 46 and 123(7).HEADNOTE:The  appellant, who was a candidate for election to  Parlia-ment,  signed  a very large number of blank  forms  for	 theappointment  of	 polling agents and made them  over  to	 oneKalyan Singh.  Kalyan Singh passed on three of the forms  toKashmira  Singh	 after	inserting  therein  the	 name  of  aparticular  polling station.  Kashmira Singh filled  in	 thename  of  Amar Singh as the polling agent in  one  of  thesethree forms and gave it to Amar Singh, who, duly signed	 theform,  filed it before the presiding officer of the  pollingstation	 and acted as the appellant's polling  agent.	AmarSingh was a member of the armed forces but this fact was notknown to the appellant or to Kashmira Singh or Kalyan Singh.After the poll the appellant was declared elected but on  anelection petition being filed his election was set aside  onthe  ground  that he had committed the corrupt	practice  ofprocuring  the assistance of a person in the service of	 theGovernment.  The appellant contended that Amar Singh had notbeen  duly  appointed as the appellant's  polling  agent  asneither	 the appellant nor his election agent had  made	 theappointment, and that the appellant could not be held guiltyof the corrupt practice for he did not know that Amar  Singhwas  in the service of the Government and  consequently	 didnot have the necessary mens Yea.214Held,  that  the  appellant did appoint Amar  Singh  as	 hispolling	 agent by personally signing the  appointment  form.The  fact that the name of the polling agent was written  inthe form by another person after the appellant had signed itdoes not make it an appointment by the other person.Held, further, that the appellant was guilty of the  corruptpractice inasmuch as he appointed Amar Singh as his  pollingagent and Amar Singh by acting as the polling agent assistedin  the	 furtherance  of the prospects	of  the	 appellant'selection.  Apresumption arises under s. 123(7) Explanation (2) that	 theappellant  by so doing procured Amar Singh's  assistance  infurtherance  of the prospects of his election,	irrespectiveof  whether he intended to procure such assistance  or	not.The  knowledge	of the appellant whether  the  person  whoseassistance  he procured was a person in the service  of	 theGovernment  or	not  was irrelevant.  Mens  rea	 was  not  anecessary ingredient of the corrupt practice.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 410 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJuly  31,  1958,  of  the  Judicial  Commissioner's   Court,Himachal Pradesh at Simla in Civil Misc.  First Appeal No. 2of 1958.K.L.  Misra, Advocate-General for the State of U. P. and  S.S. Shukla, for the appellant.Achhru Ram and Ganpat Rai for respodent No. 1.1958.  October 17.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbySARKAR,	 J.-This appeal arises out of an  election  petitionfiled  by  the respondent No. 1, Hira Singh  Paul,  whom  weshall  hereinafter  refer to as the respondent.	  The  otherrespondent to this appeal is the Election Commission, but ithas not appeared presumably because it is not interested  inthe result of the appeal which involves no claim against it.The only question that it involves is whether the  appellantwas guilty of a corrupt practice, the details of which	willbe  set	 out later, within the meaning of S. 123(7)  of	 theRepresentation of the People Act, 1951.In  the 1957 General Elections, ten candidates	filed  theirnomination  papers to contest the election from	 the  Mahasudouble member constituency in Himachal Pradesh.	 One of	 thetwo seats for this constituency215was  reserved for a scheduled caste candidate.	Two  of	 thecandidates withdrew from the contest and the remaining eightwent  to the poll.  These eight included the appellant,	 therespondent and one Nek Ram.  Nek Ram was declared elected tothe  reserved  seat and the appellant to the  general  seat.The  respondent polled the next largest number of  votes  tothe appellant.After the results had been declared the respondent filed theelection  petition  on	August	3,  1957,  challenging	 thevalidity of the election of the appellant on the ground thathe  had committed various corrupt practices.   The  ElectionTribunal framed 18 issues in respect of the various  corruptpractices  alleged  in	the petition but  answered  all	 theissues excepting issues Nos. 8(1), 8(ii) and 11 against	 therespondent.  Issue No. 8(1) raised the question whether	 oneAmar  Singh, said to be a member of the armed forces of	 theUnion  of  India, worked and canvassed	for  the  appellant.Issue  No.  8(ii) was whether Amar Singh was  appointed	 hispolling	 agent	by the appellant.  Issue No. 11 was  in	 thefollowing terms:In  case  one  or more of Issues Nos. (8) to 10	 is  or	 aredecided	 in  the affirmative, whether the respondent  No.  1obtained,  procured  or	 abetted  or  attempted	 to  obtain,procure by himself, by his agents and by his supporters	 theassistance of the Government servants as specified under thesaid  issues  for the furtherance of the  prospects  of	 hiselection ?The  Tribunal  found against the appellant  on	Issues	Nos.8(1), 8(ii) and 11 and thereupon declared his election void.The  appellant	then  went  up in  appeal  to  the  judicialCommissioner,  Himachal Pradesh, who by his  judgment  datedJuly  31,  1958, set aside the finding of  the	Tribunal  onIssue No. 8(1) but maintained its findings on the other	 twoissues	and confirmed the declaration that  the	 appellant'selection was void.  The appellant has come up to this  Courtby  special leave in appeal against that judgment.  As	willhave  been seen from what has been earlier stated  the	onlyquestions216that survive are those raised by Issues Nos. 8(ii) and 1 1.The  facts  are	 not now in dispute and	 may  be  stated  asfollows:  The  constituency  was divided  into	606  pollingstations  and for each polling station three polling  agentscould  be  appointed.  The appellant was  thus	entitled  toappoint 1818 polling agents.  On April 28, 1957, he signed avery  large  number  of the forms prescribed  by  the  rulesframed under the Act for appointing polling agents, in blankand  without  'setting out therein the name of	any  pollingagent,	as he had not then been able to make up his mind  inview of the large number of polling stations as to who wouldbe  his polling agents at the various polling stations.	  Hemade  over these forms to Kalyan Singh, who passed on  threeof them to Kashmira Singh having inserted therein the  words"  polling station No. 13, Sheopur ". Kashmira Singh  filledin  the	 name of Amar Singh as the polling agent in  one  ofthese forms on May 25, 1957, the day of polling, and made itover  to the latter to enable him to act as the	 appellant'spolling	 agent	at polling station No.	13,  Sheopur.	AmarSingh then duly signed the form as required by the rules andfiled  it with the presiding officer at polling station	 No.13, Sheopur, and on the strength of it, acted as the pollingagent  of the appellant at that station for about two  hourswhen  objection having been taken to him on the ground	thathe  was a member of the armed forces, he withdrew  and	leftthe  polling station.  Amar Singh was on the polling day  infact a member of the armed forces, though this was not	thenknown  to  the appellant.  Kalyan Singh and  Kashmira  Singhacted  in  all	that they did, under the  authority  of	 theappellant.    These  facts  may	 be  taken  to	 have	beenestablished on the evidence adduced.The  learned Advocate-General of Uttar Pradesh who  appearedfor  the appellant, first sought to contend that Amar  Singhhad not really been appointed the appellant's polling agent.He  said that under s. 46 of the Act a polling agent can  beappointed  only by the candidate himself or by his  electionagent  and  Amar  Singh could not on the  facts	 found,	 forreasons to217be  stated  presently,	be said to -have  been	appointed  apolling agent either by the appellant or his election agent.Therefore,  according  to  him,	 Amar  Singh  had  not	beenappointed the appellant's polling agent at all and hence thecharge	of  corrupt  practice  against	him  for  having  soappointed Amar Singh must fail.First, it seems to us that this argument is not open to	 thelearned	 Advocate-General.   He	 himself  appeared  for	 theappellant before the learned Judicial Commissioner and thereconceded that the factum or the validity of the	 appointmentof Amar Singh as the appellant's polling agent could not  bequestioned  by him.  We do not think that we  should  permitthe appellant to withdraw a concession expressly made by hiscounsel	 in the Court below in a matter of this kind.	Thisis all the more so as the present argument does not seem  tohave  been raised when the matter was before  the  Tribunal,either.	  Secondly,  it seems to us that the  contention  iswithout	  substance.   We  will	 assume	 that  the   learnedAdvocate-General  is right in his contention that under	 theAct  a polling agent can be appointed only by the  candidatehimself	 or by his election agent and not by  the  candidateacting	through	 any  other agent.   The  learned  Advocate-General's  contention is that on the facts found,  the	onlypossible  conclusion  is  that	Amar  Singh  had  not	beenappointed polling agent by the appellant himself but by	 oneor  other  of his agents, namely, Kalyan Singh	or  KashmiraSingh  and  as	none of them was  his  election	 agent,	 theappointment was invalid.  It is not in dispute that  neitherKalyan Singh nor Kashmira Singh was his election agent.	  Infact it appears that the appellant had no election agent  atall.   In  our view, however, this does not  matter  as	 thepresent	 is not the case of an appointment by any agent	 butby the appellant himself.  We have come to this view becausehere,  the appointment was made by the document signed	per-sonally	 by  the appellant.  The fact that the name  of	 thepolling agent was written in the document by another  personafter  the  appellant  had  signed it,	does  not  make	 theappointment of the polling agent under28218that document an appointment by some other person acting  asthe  agent  of	the  appellant.	  On  the  language  of	 thedocument-and the appointment was not purported to have	beenmade  in  any  other. way than by  the	document-it  was  anappointment made by the appellant himself.  The other persononly  wrote the name in the document which he had  authorityto  do.	 He did not purport to make any appointment at	all.It  is impossible to read the document as the making of	 theappointment  by	 an agent of the appellant acting  for	him.The  true view of the matter plainly is that  the  appellanthimself	 appointed by the document as his polling  agent,  aperson	whose name had been written therein by another	withhis authority.	We, therefore, hold that Amar Singh had beenappointed  his polling agent by the appellant  himself.	  Itwas thus even on the learned Advocate-General's constructionof s. 46, a proper appointment.We  then  come	to this that the  appellant  appointed	AmarSingh,	a member of the armed forces, his polling agent	 andthe latter acted as such.  The question is, Did this  amountto  a corrupt practice by the appellant ?  The	respondent'scontention  which has been accepted by the Courts below,  isthat  it is a corrupt practice within s. 123(7) of the	Act.That provision so far as is relevant and the explanation  toit, are in these terms.Section	 123.  The following shall be deemed to	 be  corruptpractices for the purposes of this Act :-(7)  The obtaining or procuring or abetting or attempting toobtain	or  procure by a candidate or his agent or,  by	 anyother person, any assistance (other than the giving of vote)for  the  furtherance of the prospects of  that	 candidate'selection,  from any person in the service of the  Governmentand belonging to any of the following classes, namely :-(c) members of the armed forces of the Union;  Explanation.-(1)(2) For the purposes of clause (7), a person shall be219deemed	to assist in the furtherance of the prospects  of  acandidate's  election if he acts as an election agent, or  apolling agent or a counting agent of that candidate."The learned Advocate-General contends that the procuring  orobtaining   by	a  candidate  of  any  assistance  for	 thefurtherance  of the prospects of his election from a  personin  the service of the Government as a member of  the  armedforces,	 would not amount to a corrupt practice unless	thatcandidate  knew	 that  the person  was	in  such  Governmentservice.   He  says that the words  'procuring	orobtaining'import	such  knowledge	 and that this view  of	 the  matterreceives great strength from the word I for' in the phrase "for  the  furtherance of the prospects of  that	 candidate'selection  ".  According to him, without such  knowledge	 thecandidate  cannot be said to have procured or  obtained	 anyassistance, for no one can obtain or procure a thing  unlesshe knows that he is doing so.  He then points out that thereis evidence that neither the appellant nor Kalyan Singh	 noreven Kashmira Singh knew that Amar Singh was a member of thearmed forces.  He, therefore, says that the appellant cannotin the absence of such knowledge be said to have procured orobtained the assistance of a member of the armed forces	 forfurthering the prospects of his election.,It is true that neither the appellant nor Kalyan Singh, noreven  Kashmira Singh knew at the date of the appointment  ofAmar Singh that he was a member of the armed forces but	 thepoint now raised by the learned Advocate-General is, in	 ourview,  none  the  less	unsustainable.	 It  overlooks	 theprovisions of the second explanation to the section which wehave  already set out.	Under that explanation if  a  personacts  as  the polling agent of a candidate it must  be	heldwithout	 more,	that,  he assisted  in	furtherance  of	 theprospects of that candidate's election.	 In the present casetherefore it has to be held that Amar Singh who acted as theappellant's   polling	agent,	thereby	 assisted   in	 thefurtherance  of the prospect.-, of his election.  Now  underthe  provisions	 of the Act, no one can act as	the  pollingagent  of a candidate unless he has been appointed  as	suchand we have already held that the appellant220himself	 had appointed Amar Singh as his polling agent.	  Itfollows	 in  view  of the  explanation	that  the  appellantprocured  and obtained the assistance of Amar Singh for	 thefurtherance  of	 the  prospects of his	election.   All	 therequirements  of  the  section are thus	 satisfied  and	 theappellant  must	 therefore  be held to	have  committed	 thecorrupt	 practice thereby constituted. All that the  sectionrequires is that assistance shall be procured for furtheringthe  election.	Where the explanation applies as it does  inthe  present case, if a candidate has appointed a person  toact  as his polling agent and he accordingly does so act,  astatutory  presumption	arises that  the  candidate  therebyprocured  that	person's assistance in	furtherance  of	 theprospects of his election, and this irrespective of  whetherhe  intended to procure such assistance or not.	 Indeed,  asMr. Achhru Ram appearing for the respondent pointed out, theexplanation clearly shows that the candidate's intention  isirrelevant,  for,  such	 presumption  arises  even  when   acandidate has procured another person to act as his countingagent  and  it	is  very  difficult  to	 imagine  that	 theappointment of a counting agent can further the prospects ofany election, for the counting agent acts after the  pollingis over and only when the votes already polled, are counted.Therefore it seems to us that in the case of the appointmentof a polling agent which comes within the explanation as thepresent	 case  does,  the  intention  of  the  candidate  inprocuring  the assistance is irrelevant.  If that is so,  itis  clear  that the knowledge of the candidate	whether	 theperson, whose service as his polling agent he has  procured,is  a  member  of  the armed forces  or	 any  of  the  otherspecified  class of Government servants or not,	 is  equallyirrelevant.   We think therefore that the learned  Advocate-General's contention must fail.What  we  have	said just now also  disposes  of  the  otherargument  of  the learned Advocate-General, namely,  that  acorrupt	 practice  is in the nature of a  criminal  act	 andcannot therefore be established unless mens rea, or criminalintention, is established, and that the appellant cannot  besaid to have committed221a corrupt practice for he had no mens rea in appointing AmarSingh  his  polling agent since he did not  know  that	AmarSingh  was a member of the armed forces.  On this  point  wewere referred to certain passages from English text-books onelection law of which it will be enough to refer to one, forall  state  the	 law in substantially the  same	 terms.	  InSchofield's  Parliamentary Elections, 2nd Edn. which is	 oneof the text-books to which we were referred, it is stated atp. 402:There is an elementary distinction between a corrupt and  anillegal	 practice.  To establish the former it is  essentialto  show  that a corrupt intention is  present.	  A  corruptpractice  is  a thing the mind goes along with,	 whereas  anillegal practice is a thing the legislature is determined toprevent, whether it is done honestly or dishonestly.The  view thus formulated is founded on the English  law  ofelection and is clearly of no assistance to us.	 It is basedon  particular	English statutes and the  language  employedtherein.  We have already shown that our statute in the caseat least of a corrupt practice of the kind in hand does	 notconcern	 itself with any question of intention.	 Mr.  AchhruRam with his usual industry made available to us the Englishstatutes on which the statement of law set out in the  text-books  referred	 to by counsel for the	appellant  had	beenbased  and  pointed out that under these statutes  the	actstherein made corrupt practices had to be done corruptly	 andthat corrupt practices were always made offences  punishableas  crimes.   It may be of use here to point  out  that	 therelevant provisions in our statute were amended in 1956	 andthat has done away with the distinction between illegal	 andcorrupt	 practices.   In  fact, we  have  now  only  corruptpractices  and no illegal practices.  The present  case,  itmay be pointed out, is governed by the amended statute.	  Noquestion  of  mens  rea or intention  or  knowledge  of	 thecandidate arises in this case.We, therefore, come to the conclusion that the appellant wasguilty	of  a corrupt practice by appointing Amar  Singh,  amember of the armed forces, his polling222agent whereby the latter was enabled to and did act as such.The  appellant's  election was consequently in	our  opinionrightly declared void.The appeal is therefore dismissed with costs.Appeal	  dismissed,.."