PETITIONER:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,MADHYA PRADESH AND BHOPAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:MESSRS.	 VYAS & DOTIWALADATE OF JUDGMENT:03/10/1958BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1959 AIR   90		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1)  39 CITATOR INFO : R	    1961 SC1261	 (7)ACT:       Income-tax-Assessees  financing cloth  distribution  scheme-       Profits, if accrue to assessees-Agreement to utilise Profits       for   charitable	 Purposes-Such	Profits,  if  exempt   from       taxation-lndian	Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI Of 1922), s.  4(3)       (i-a).HEADNOTE:The Deputy Commissioner of Amraoti, evolved a scheme for thedistribution  of  standard cloth.  The assessees  agreed  tofinance	 the scheme without charging any interest  and	wereappointed  financiers and distributors.	 The orders for	 thecloth  were placed by the Government with the mills and	 thecloth  was delivered to the assessees upon their paying	 thevalue  of  the	cloth together with 6-1/4%  of	the  ex-millprice.	 The Deputy Commissioner paid 4-1/2% of the  ex-millprice  to the asses-sees for contingent expenses of  workingthe  scheme.  The assessees distributed the cloth at  pricesfixed by the Deputy Commissioner through the Tehsildars	 andthe Deputy Commissioner was responsible to the assessees forthe  sale proceeds receivable from the Tehsildars.   Out  ofthe  sale  proceeds  the Deputy	 Commissioner  paid  to	 theassessees  whatever  they had advanced on  the	cloth.	 Theprofits from the scheme were agreed to be utilised for	suchcharitable  purposes  as  might be  decided  by	 the  DeputyCommissioner.	The assessees contended that the income	 wasnot their income and that it was exempt from taxation  unders. 4(3) (i-a) of the Income-tax Act.Held,  that  the profits were income which  accrued  to	 theassessees.  The assessees worked the scheme and such workingproduced the profits.  The fact of the control of the DeputyCommissioner could not prevent the working of the scheme  bythe assessees from being a business carried on by them.	 Theprovisions  in	the agreement that the	Deputy	Commissionerguaranteed  the payment by the Tehsildars of the  price	 duefrom them, and that the profits would be devoted to  charitydecided	 by  the  Deputy  Commissioner	and  the  claim	 forexemption  under  s.  4(3)  (i-a)  all	indicated  that	 theassessees were the owners of the business.Held further, that the profits were not exempt from taxationunder  s.  4(3) (i-a), as the business was  not	 carried  onbehalf of any religious or charitable institution.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 222 of 1956.40Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and decree  datedDecember  8, 1953, of the former Nagpur High Court in  Misc.Civil Case No. 55 of 1950.C.   K.	  Daphtary,  Solicitor-General	of  India,   K.	  K.Rajagopala  Sastri,  R.	 H. Dhebar and	D.  Gupta,  for	 theappellant.The respondent did not appear.1958.  October 3. The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySARKAR J.-This is an appeal brought by special leave againstthe  judgment  of the High Court at Nagpur, delivered  on  areference under s. 66(1) of the Income-tax Act.	 The  appealis  by	the Commissioner of Income-tax, Madhya	Pradesh	 andBhopal.	 The respondents are the assessees Vyas &  Dotiwala.The respondents have not appeared in this appeal.  We  shallpresently  set out the facts but before we do that, we	wishto  state that the assessment years concerned  were  1945-46and  1946-47.	Though there were  two	separate  assessmentorders in respect of these years, ultimately when they	cameup before the Appellate Tribunal they were consolidated intoone  appeal.   The appeal before us likewise  concerns	boththese assessment years.It  appears  that in or about July  1943  when	considerabledifficulty   was   being  felt	about  cloth,	the   DeputyCommissioner,  Amraoti,	 evolved  a  scheme  to	 solve	thatdifficulty.   Under  that scheme Kisanlal Vyas	and  a	firmcalled Edulji Framji Dotiwala who have in these	 proceedingsbeen  referred	to  as Dotiwala, undertook  to	finance	 thescheme	without	 charging any interest or  profit  and	wereappointed  as financiers and also distributors of a  varietyof  cloth  called standard cloth for the town  and  camp  ofAmraoti	 and  certain  areas  in  the  interior	 It  is	 notnecessary  to set out the various details of the scheme	 andit  will be sufficient to state that Vyas and Dotiwala,	 whoas  an association of persons are the  assessees  concerned,agreed	to open an account in the Imperial Bank of India  tobe operated by them out of which the purchases41of the cloth were to be financed.  The orders for the  clothwere  to be placed by the Government with the mills  and  onthe arrival of a consignment of cloth, the assessees were topay  to the Deputy Commissioner, Amraoti, the value  of	 theconsignment  together  with 6-1/4 per cent. of	the  ex-millprice.	 The consignment was thereupon to be opened and	 itscontents  checked  by the assessees and	 the  officials	 anddelivered  to the assessees on their granting a receipt	 forthe same.  The Deputy Commissioner would pay 4-1/2 per cent.of the ex-mill price to the assessees out of the amount paidby  the	 latter	 as aforesaid  for  contingent	expenses  ofworking the scheme.  The scheme provided that the contingentexpenses were not to exceed 3 percent. of the ex-mill price.The  cloth  coming to the hands of the assessees was  to  bedistributed  in Amraoti town and camp through a shop  to  beopened	by  the assessees and in the interiors of  the	areaconcerned  through Tehsildars with Patils under	 them.	 Thesubstance of the arrangement of distribution appears to havebeen  that  it would be entirely under the  control  of	 theDeputy	Commissioner  who made himself	responsible  to	 theassessees   for	 the  sale  proceeds  receivable  from	 theTehsildars.  The Deputy Commissioner was to decide the pricefor which the cloth was to be sold to the consumers and alsothe  persons  entitled to buy the cloth.  Out  of  the	saleproceeds the Deputy Commissioner was to pay to the assesseeswhatever  they	had advanced on account of the	cloth.	 Themost important provision in this scheme is para. 14 which isset out below.Profits resulting from the scheme shall be utilised for suchcharitable  purposes  as  may be decided on  by	 the  DeputyCommissioner  in  consultation with the	 advisory  committeeappointed to supervise the scheme.It  appears  that  the books of	 the  assessees	 showed	 Rs.34,737/-  for the assessment year 1945-46 and  Rs.  17,682/-for the assessment year 1946-47 as profits earned in workingthe  scheme.  The Income-tax Officer assessed the  assesseesto tax on the profits so earned.642The  assessment orders made by this officer would appear  toshow  that the only point urged by the assessees before	 himagainst	 the assessment was that the income was exempt	fromtaxation  under s. 4(3)(i-a) of the Indian  Income-tax	Act,1922.  The officer rejected this contention.  The  assesseeswent  up in appeal to the Appellate Assistant  Commissioner,before	whom  the  same -contention  appears  to  have	beenrepeated.  The Appellate Commissioner confirmed the order ofthe Income-tax Officer.	 The assessees then appealed to	 theAppellate  Tribunal.  The Tribunal held-that  the  assesseeshad objected to the assessment before the Income-tax Officeron  two grounds, namely, that the income was Dot the  incomeof  the	 assessees  and	 that the  income  was	exempt	fromtaxation  under s. 4(3)(i-a), as appeared from their  letterdated  January 22, 1947.  One of these alone had been  dealtwith  by  that officer, as appears from	 his  order  earlierreferred to. The Appellate Tribunal agreed with the  conten-tion of the assessees that they were not liable to be  taxedon the profits because these did not form their income.	 TheTribunal  was of the view that the scheme was the scheme  ofthe  Deputy Commissioner and completely under  his  control;that  the  assessees  were merely the  financiers  and	alsomanagers  under	 the Deputy Commissioner to  carry  out	 thescheme	and  that  the assessees only  helped  to  work	 thescheme.	  The Tribunal held that the profits that  may	haveresulted  from	such working were not therefore	 theirs	 norrepresented  their  income and the assessees  could  not  beassessed to income-tax thereon.	 In this view of the  matterthe Tribunal set aside the orders of assessment.Thereafter,  on the application of the	revenue	 authoritiesthe  Tribunal  referred the following question to  the	HighCourt under s. 66(1) of the Act:Whether	 on  the facts of this case any	 income	 accrued  toMessrs.	   Vyas	 and  Dotiwala	as  the	 result	  of   theirassociating  themselves as financiers in the scheme for	 thedistribution  of  standard cloth; and, if  so  whether	suchincome was assessable in their hands.43On  that  reference  the  High Court  held  that  under	 thecharging section in the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, namely,s. 4, it was necessary for the revenue authorities to  provethat  the  assessees received or should be  deemed  to	havereceived  income  or  profit  from  the	 scheme	 during	 therelevant period.  It held that the asseess had not  actuallyreceived  any such income and further that the expression  "deemed to be received " in that section only meant deemed bythe  provision	of  the	 Act to be  received,  and  no	suchprovisions of the Act had been relied upon on behalf of	 therevenue	 authorities.  In this view of the matter  the	HighCourt answered the question framed, in the negative.The  learned Solicitor-General contends that the High  Courtfailed	to appreciate the real question.  He says  that	 thequestion was not whether income was received or deemed to bereceived  but whether income had accrued and the  point	 fordecision was, as appeared from the judgment of the Tribunal,whether	 the profits formed the income of the assesses.	  Weagree with this criticism of the judgment of the High Court.On the point that arises from the question framed, we  thinkthat  the Tribunal went wrong.	It is not disputed that	 theassessees  worked the scheme and such working  produced	 theprofits	 as  found in the assessment orders.   The  Tribunalthought	 that  since  the scheme was  completely  under	 thecontrol of the Deputy Commissioner, the assessees could	 notbe  said to have carried on business by working the  scheme.We  are	 unable to see that the fact of the control  of	 theDeputy Commissioner can prevent the working of the scheme bythe assessees from being a business carried on by them.	  Inour  view,  it	only comes to this that	 the  assessees	 hadagreed	to do business in a certain manner.  The  fact	thatthe  Deputy  Commissioner  guaranteed  the  payment  by	 theTehsildars  of	the price due from them,  to  the  assesseeswould indicate that the assessees were treated as the ownersof  the business.  It would indicate that if there had	beenno  such  guarantee,  the loss due to  the  failure  of	 theTehsildars to pay their dues would have to be borne44by   the  assessees.   Again  the  claim,  may	be  in	 thealternative, by the assessees for exemption under s. 4(3)(i-a)  would not arise unless the assessees were carrying on  abusiness.   Lastly,  para. 14 of the scheme which  we,	haveearlier set out, clearly contemplates profits resulting fromthe scheme.  The provision that the profits would be devotedto  charity to be decided by the Deputy Commissioner,  wouldindicate  that	without	 it  the  profits  would  have	beenutilisable  by the assessees.  The profits belonged  to	 theassessees and hence the necessity for this agreement so thatthe  assessees might be made to spend them on charity.	 If,as the Tribunal thought, the profits were of the Government,there was no necessity for the Government providing for	 theprofits	 being	expended on charity, for the  Government  ifminded	to  do	so,  could  have  done	it  without  such  aprovision.  The fact remains that the working of the  schemeproduced  profits  and	apart from  para.  14  such  profitsundoubtedly  belonged  to the assessees.  If they  chose  toagree by para. 14 to devote the profits to charity, that wastheir  business; the profits made by them would	 not  changetheir  character  and  cease to	 be  the  assessees'  incomebecause	 they agreed to devote their income to charity.	  Wemight  also  say that there is nothing in the  scheme  whichshows  that  the assessees had undertaken not  to  make	 anyprofits on the distribution work under the scheme; they	 hadonly  agreed  to finance the scheme  without  receiving	 anyinterest  or  profit.	Furthermore,  since  the   assesseesactually  made	the  profits, they are	liable	to  pay	 taxthereon whether they agreed not to make any profits or	not.We wish also to point out that it is not the assessees' casethat  they  have been made to pay out the  profits  for	 anycharity.   For these reasons we think that the profits	werethe profits of the assessees and they are liable to pay	 taxon them.With  regard to the assessees' claim for exemption under  s.4(3)(i-a), they are clearly not entitled to any.  That claimof the assessees has not been accepted by any of the  Courtsbelow.	 Section  4(3)(i-a) applies to income  derived	frombusiness carried on on behalf of a religious and  charitableinstitution when the income45is applied solely to the purpose of the institution and	 thebusiness is carried on in the manner provided.	It is enoughto  say that the scheme, considered as a business,  was	 notcarried	 on  on	 behalf	 of  any  religious  or	  charitableinstitution.   Once it is held that the assessees  made	 theprofit, how they use it would not matter.In  the result, we would answer both parts of  the  questionframed,	 in-the affirmative.  We hold that the profits	werethe income which accrued to the assessees and such income isassessable  to	income-tax and is not exempt  from  taxationunder  s. 4(3)(i-a).  The appeal is allowed with costs	hereand below.				     Appeal allowed.