PETITIONER:Dr. SAILENDRA NATH SINHA AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:JASODA DULAL ADHIKARI AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:11/09/1958BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1959 AIR   51		  1959 SCR 1263 CITATOR INFO : D	    1960 SC 576	 (25)ACT:Official  Liquidator-Powers  of-Prosecution of	Director  ofCompany-If   direction	of  Court   necessary-Court   givingdirection,  if bound to hear Director-Indian Companies	Act,1913 (VII Of 1913), ss.	 179 and 237(1).HEADNOTE:The  Official  Liquidator got a complaint under	 ss.  120-B,406,  467  and	477A, 'Indian Penal Code  filed	 before	 thePresidency Magistrate against the appellants one of whom wasa  past director and the other the Managing Director of	 theBank of Commerce Ltd., which was in compulsory	liquidation.The  appellants	 applied to the	 Presidency  Magistrate	 fordismissal of tile complaint on the ground that the  OfficialLiquidator was incompetent to prefer the complaint as  therewas  no sanction of the Company judge.	This was  dismissed.The  appellants then applied to the High Court for  quashingthe criminal proceedings on the ground that the	 prosecutionwas  ab	 initio	 void  because of the  absence	of  a  priordirection judicially given by the High Court under S. 237(1)of  the Indian Companies Act.  The High Court  rejected	 theapplication.Held,  that a direction of the Court under s. 237(1) of	 theIndian	Companies Act was not a condition precedent  to	 theprosecution  of the appellants by the  Official	 Liquidator.In fact, a valid and proper direction had been given by	 theCourt  under  s. 237(1) to the Official Liquidator  for	 theprosecution of the appellants.	In giving a direction  underthis  section  the Court could act ex parte and it  was	 notnecessary to give to the appellants any opportunity of beingheard.	 Section  I79 Of the Companies Act  deals  with	 thepowers	 of  liquidators  to  institute	 or   defend   legalproceedings  with  the sanction of the Court and  S.  239(1)deals  with the powers of the Court to give  directions	 forprosecution  of delinquent directors, etc.  In	the  presentcase,  the  Court  had made an order  under  s.	 I79  givingliberty	 to the Official Liquidator to institute  or  defendlegal proceedings, and the Official Liquidator was  entitledto lodge the complaint against the appellants even without adirection under S. 237(1).JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 28  of1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJune  21,  1954,  of the Calcutta  High	 Court	in  CriminalRevision No. 811 of 1953.1264Ranadeb Chaudhury and P. K. Chatterjee, for the appellants.B. Sen and P. K. Bose, for the respondents.1958.	September  11.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byKAPUR  J.-This appeal by special leave raises a question  ofinterpretation	of  s.	237 of	the  Indian  Companies	Act.Appellant No. 1 is One of the past directors of the Bank  ofCommerce  Ltd., now in liquidation and appellant No.  2	 wasits Managing Director.	The Bank was ordered to be wound  upby the High Court of Calcutta on August 7, 1950, and one  G.K.  Dutt, Bar-at-law was appointed its	Official  Liquidatorbut  on	 September  7,	1950,  the  Official  Receiver	 wasappointed  in place of Dutt.  On July 23,  1952,  respondentNo.  1	filed  in  Court  of  the  Presidency  Magistrate  acomplaint  against the appellant under ss. 120B,  406,	467,477A, Indian Penal Code and 182A of the Indian Companies Actand  stated that he was doing so under the authority of	 theofficial liquidator and the official liquidator had obtainedthe directions of the High Court to file the complaint.	  OnMay  5,	 1953,	the appellant  applied	to  the	 I-residencyMagistrate  for dismissal of the complaint as being  withoutthe sanction of the Company Judge and therefore the officialliquidator  in	his  official capacity	was  incompetent  toprefer	the complaint, being the creation of the statute  hecould  only act within the four corners of the statute.	  Hepossessed  only those powers which the statute conferred  onhim.   This  application  was dismissed	 by  the  PresidencyMagistrate on June 13, 1953.The  appellant then applied to the High Court  for  quashingthe criminal proceedings on the ground that the	 prosecutionwas ab initio void because of the absence of prior directionjudicially  given by the High Court under s. 237(1)  of	 theIndian	Companies  Act.	 The High Court	 found	against	 theappellants  and	 discharged  the rule.	 The  learned  ChiefJustice held that the provisions of s. 237(1) are no bar  toa prosecution by the liquidator; that under s. 237(1)  thereis nothing in the nature of a judicial proceedings1265that  it  could not be said that the order was not  a  validdirection under s. 237(1).  He said: "  There  can be no question in the present case  that	 therelevant  facts	 were all placed before the  Company  Judge,because	 they are all set out in the report of Adhikary	 andthe affidavits annexed there to to which the order expresslyrefers	and  with reference to which the  liberty  to  bringlegal  proceedings  was expressly given.  In view  of  thosecircumstances,	it  is impossible to say  that	the  CompanyCourt  had  not	 before	 it  all  the  facts  on  which	 theprosecution  is based or that it did not apply its  mind  tothe considerations relevant to section 237(1) ".He  also  held	that  clause (a)  of  s.  179  empowers	 theliquidator  to institute or defend legal proceedings in	 thename of the company and that it was expressly concerned withthe powers of' the liquidator whereas s.     237 dealt	withthe powers of the Court to give, directions.  P. B. MukherjiJ.  gave  a  concurring judgment.  After  referring  to	 thehistory	 of  s.	 237, he held that under  that	section	 theCompany Judge can act ex parte and it was not necessary	 forhim  to	 hear a director or an officer of the  company	com-plained against and that direction given under that  sectionwas  not  a  condition precedent to  a	prosecution  by	 theofficial liquidator nor is it the intention of that  sectionto impinge on the powers of a criminal court under the	Codeof Criminal Procedure.	Leave to appeal having been  refusedby the Calcutta High Court, the appellants have come to thisCourt in pursuance of special leave.On the application of the official liquidator Bachawat J. anJanuary	 15, 1951, made an order which must be taken  to  beone under s. 179.  In this order it was said:And  it	 is further ordered that the said  applicant  be  atliberty	 to institute or defend any suit or prosecution,  orother  legal proceedings, civil or criminal in the name	 andon behalf of the said Bank and to continue all pending suitsand  execution proceedings by or against the said  Bank	 andfor  that  purpose to engage advocates,	 Vakils	 and  other.lawyers and to1266pay  out  of the assets of the said Bank in  his  hands	 allcosts  of and incidental to such suits, prosecutions  and/orlegal proceedings ".On July 22, 1952, the official liquidator obtained the orderfrom  Bannerji J. which the High Court has held, and in	 ouropinion rightly, to be an order under s.     237(1)  of	 theIndian Companies Act.  This order said:"  It  is ordered that the said applicant be at	 liberty  totake  such  civil or criminal proceedings as  he  may  thinknecessary over the report of the said Jasoda Dulal  Adhikaryread  with the affidavits of H. Sen Gupta and Nepal  ChandraAdhikary read with the affidavits of H. Sen Gupta and  NepalChandra Mitra as set out in the said Exhibit " A " ".The passage already quoted from the judgment of the  learnedChief Justice shows that all the relevant facts were  beforethe  Company  Judge,  as  they	were  all  set	out  in	 theaffidavits placed before him.  The complaint was then  filedon July 23, 1952.  During the pendency of the complaint	 theappellants  took an appeal against the order of the  CompanyJudge  dated  July  22, 1952, but it was  dismissed  on	 theobjection   taken   by	the  liquidator	 that  it   was	  anadministrative order and not a judicial order.On  August  5,	1953,  the  official  liquidator  took	 outmisfeasance  proceedings under s. 235 of the  Companies	 Actand  the  appellants  then applied to  the  High  Court	 forquashing  the  criminal proceedings already started  on	 theground	of commencement of proceedings under s.	 235.	Thisapplication was also heard with the rule which was issued onJune 29, 1953, and it was dismissed by the same judgment  bywhich the rule was discharged, i. e., of June 21, 1954.The  general scheme of the Companies Act is that  the  Courtshould	have complete control of all proceedings in  windingup  and it was therefore urged that the official  liquidatorwas  not  authorised  to  do  anything	either	without	 thesanction  of the Court or without its  directions.   Section179  deals  with  the powers  of  official  liquidator.	  Itprovides:1267The official liquidator shall have power, with the  sanctionof the court, to do the following things:(a)  to institute or defend any suit or prosecution or otherlegal  proceeding,  civil  or criminal in the  name  and  onbehalf of the company;.............."Under  s.  180	the  Court may	provide	 that  the  officialliquidator may exercise any of the powers given under s. 179without the sanction or intervention of the Court.   Section183  deals  with the exercise and  control  of	liquidator'spowers.	 Sub-section 3 authorises him to apply to the  Courtfor directions in relation to any particular matter  arisingin the winding up.  Subsection 4 is a provision under  whichthe   official	liquidator  is	entitled  to  use  his	 owndiscretion  in	the  administration of	the  assets  of	 thecompany and in the distribution amongst the creditors.	Sub-section 5 provides:"  If any person is aggrieved by any act or decision of	 theofficial liquidator, that person may apply to the Court	 andthe Court may confirm, reverse or modify the act or decisioncomplained of, and make such order as it thinks just in	 thecircumstances ".These  provisions show that s. 179 deals with the powers  ofthe liquidator.Under  s.  235	the Court has the power	 to  assess  damagesagainst	 delinquent  directors	and the	 Court	may  on	 theapplication   of   the	liquidator  or	a  creditor   or   acontributory  examine  into the conduct of  a  director	 andcompel	him  to	 pay  or restore money	or  property  or  tocontribute  such sum to the assets of the company by way  ofcompensation  in respect of any misfeasance on his part	 andthis  power  may be exercised irrespective of  the  criminalliability   of	the  director.	 Section  237	deals	withprosecution of delinquent director and the relevant  portionof this section is:(1)  " If it appears to the Court in the course of a windingup by, or subject to the supervision of, the Court, that anypast  or present director, manager or other officer, or	 anymember,	 of  the company has been guilty of any	 offence  inrelation  to the company for which he is criminally  liable,the Court may, either on1611268the  application of any person interested in the winding  upor  of its own motion, direct the liquidator either  himselfto  prosecute  the offender or to refer the  matter  to	 theregistrar.(2)  If	 it  appears to the liquidator in the  course  of  avoluntary  winding  up that any past  or  present  director,manager	 or other officer, or any member of the company	 hasbeen  guilty of any offence in relation to the	company	 forwhich he is criminally liable, he shall forthwith report thematter	to  the	 registrar and shall  furnish  to  him	suchinformation  and give to him such access to  and  facilitiesfor  inspecting	 and taking copies of any  documents,  beinginformation  or	 documents in the possession  or  under	 thecontrol	 of  the  liquidator  relating	to  the	 matter	  inquestion, as he may require.(3)  Where any report is made under sub-section (2)  to	 theregistrar, he may, if he thinks fit, refer the matter to theCentral	 Government  for further enquiry,  and	the  CentralGovernment  shall thereupon investigate the matter and	may,if they think it expedient, apply to the Court for an  orderconferring   on	 any  person  designated  by   the   CentralGovernment  for	 the  purpose with respect  to	the  companyconcerned  all such powers of investigating the	 affairs  ofthe  company  as are provided by this Act in the case  of  awinding up by the Court.(4)  If on any report to the registrar under sub-s.    2  itappears to him that the case is not one in which proceedingsought  to  be taken by him, he shall inform  the  liquidatoraccordingly, and thereupon, subject to the previous sanctionof  the Court, the liquidator may himself  take	 proceedingsagainst the offender.(5)  If	 it appears to the Court in the course of  voluntarywinding	 up  that any past or present director,	 manager  orother officer, or any member, of the company has been guiltyas aforesaid, and that no report with respect to the  matterhas been made by the liquidator to the registrar, the  Courtmay,  on  the application of any person	 interested  in	 thewinding	 up or of its own motion, direct the  liquidator  tomake such a report, and on a report being made accordingly,1269the  provisions	 of  this  section  shall  have	 effect	  asthough,the  report  has	 been  made  in	 pursuance  of	 theprovisions of sub-section (2).(6)  If,  where	 any matter is reported or referred  to	 theregistrar under this section, he considers that the case  isone in which a prosecution ought to be instituted, he  shallplace  the papers before the Advocate-General or the  publicprosecutor and if advised to do so institute proceedings :Provided  that	no prosecution shall be	 undertaken  withoutfirst  giving the accused person an opportunity of making  astatement  in  writing to the registrar and of	being  heardthereon. ..........................................................It was this section which the appellants pressed in  supportof  the	 argument that without the order of  the  Court	 theofficial  liquidator  cannot  lodge  a	criminal   complaintagainst	 a past director and if he does so  the	 proceedingswill  be  ab initio void.  All that sub-s. (1)	requires  isthat  if the Court finds in- the course of winding  up	thatany  past or present director, etc., has been guilty of	 anyoffence	 in relation to the company the Court may either  onthe  application  of  the person interested or	of  its	 ownmotion direct the liquidator to prosecute the offender or torefer  the matter to the registrar.  In the latter  case  ifthe  registrar	finds  that  the  prosecution  ought  to  beinstituted  he can do so if advised by the  Advocate-Generalor  the	 public	 prosecutor.  But  emphasis  was  placed  bycounsel	  for  the  appellants	on  the	 proviso   that	  noprosecution  could  be undertaken without first	 giving	 theaccused	 person an opportunity of making a statement to	 theregistrar  or  of being heard and it was urged that  if	 theregistrar cannot institute prosecution without first  givingan opportunity to the person accused to file an explanation,no directions could be given by the judge unless the personsaccused	 are  first  allowed an	 opportunity  of  giving  anexplanation.   But this contention must be repelled.   Unders.  237 (1) the Court may direct the liquidator	 to  himselfprosecute  the	offender  or  to refer	the  matter  to	 theregistrar.   Giving  an opportunity to the  offender  beforesuch direction is given by1270the Court is not a prerequisite of the Judge making in orderunder  sub-s.  (1).   Under  sub-s.  (6)  the  registrar  isrequired  to give the offender an opportunity to show  causebefore a prosecution is undertaken.  That is a far step fromsaying that s. 237(1) of the Companies Act requires a  Judgeto  give  the  offender an opportunity	before	he  gives  adirection for prosecution by the liquidator or for referenceto the registrar.It  was further urged  that under sub-s (4) in the  case  ofvoluntary  liquidation, the liquidator has to proceed  afterobtaining  the	sanction of the Court and therefore  it	 wasurged	that  the  liquidator  cannot	institute   criminalproceedings without such sanction in the case of winding  upby  the	 Court.	 Whatever may be the case  of  a  liquidatorunder  voluntary  winding up sub-s. (1) of s. 237  makes  nosuch  provision in the case of compulsory liquidation.	 Ourattention  was	drawn  to  some	 passages  from	 the  IndianCompanies Act by Sircar & Sen, 1937 Edition.  At page 624 itis  stated  that  the object of the section  is	 to  provideagainst	  abuses   and	 indiscriminate	  commencement	  ofprosecutions  and  also for the first time a  provision	 hasbeen   made  under  this  section  for	prosecutions   beingconducted  as crown prosecutions.  In a passage at page	 628it is stated:" But before the Court can exercise its jurisdiction it mustcome to the conclusion that in the course of winding up	 theperson	intended to be charged under this section  has	beenguilty of an offence in relation to the company for which heis  criminally	liable.	  But  such  a	finding	 is  not  toprejudice  the accused in any way in his trial.	 Per  ChittyJ. in re Charles Denham & Co. Ltd.  L.T. 570 at 571.  "The procedure under s. 237(1) as stated in this book at	 thesame page is as follows:"  The application should be made on a petition verified  byan  affidavit in which materials must be set out  sufficientto make out a prima facie case.It is not quite settled as to whether the liquidator  shouldmake the application upon notice to any one.  Generally	 theapplication should be ex parte, but1271the Court may direct notice to be given to any person who isin its opinion entitled to be heard ".These  passages do not support the contention that before  aprosecution  can  be  validly  instituted  against  a	pastdirector  the  sanction	 of the	 Court	is  necessary.	 Mr.Choudhuri then relied on an observation of Buckley J. In  ReLondon	and  Globe Finance Corporation (1)  also  quoted  inSircar	&  Sen's  book at page 625.   There  the  principlesguiding	 the Court in ordering prosecutions have  been	laiddown as follows:"  I have next to consider upon what principles I  ought  toexercise the power given me by S. 167 of the Companies	Act,1862,  to  direct  the official receiver  to  institute	 andconduct	 a prosecution at the expense of the assets.  It  isobvious that no one legitimately can or ought to institute acriminal  prosecution  with a view to his  personal  profit.Neither	 should a prosecution be instituted from motives  ofvengeance  against  the	 offender.   The  motive  of   everyprosecution  ought,  to be to inflict  punishment  upon	 thecriminal  for the proper enforcement of the law and for	 theadvantage of the State and with a view to deter others	fromdoing the like ".This  passage does not support the giving of an	 opportunityto  the offender before the Judge can give direction nor  dothey  affect  the  powers  of  the  liquidator	to  start  aprosecution or the, criminal court to entertain a  complaintwhen filed by the liquidator.The  following passage from Buckley's Company Law under	 thecommentary under s. 334 of the English Companies Act,  1948,which corresponds to s. 237 of the Indian Companies Act	 wasthen referred to:"  Proceedings will accordingly be taken by the Director  ofPublic Prosecutions (or Lord Advocate) or not at all ".But this is because of the peculiar and express language  ofs. 334 tinder which the Judge can only direct the liquidatorto  refer the matter to the Director of Public	Prosecutionsor to Lord Advocate as the case may be.	 In the English Act,special	 provision  has	 been made for	England	 saving	 theinstitution of(1)  (1903) 1 Ch. 728, 733.1272criminal proceedings by private prosecutors.  Merely becauseno  such provision has been made in regard to scotland	doesnot affect the argument.Mr.  Choudhuri then relied on certain English cases  dealingwith the mode of giving directions.  In re Northern CountiesBank  Limited(1)  the Judge had ordered	 the  liquidator  toascertain by circular the wishes of the creditors and  afterthey had appeared to oppose the starting of the prosecution,it was held (1) that it did not sufficiently appear that theoffence	 had  been  committed and (2) that  as	2/3  of	 thecreditors opposed the application the prosecution should notbe ordered as expenses will have to be paid from out of	 themoney  belonging  to the creditors.  The main  question	 fordecision in that case was whether the prosecution should  beat  the	 cost and expense of the assets of the	company	 butcompetency  of the liquidator to file the complaint was	 notin  dispute.  Reference 'was then made to  Palmer's  CompanyPrecedents, 1952 Edition, Vol. II, again stating as to	whenleave to prosecute should be given but the law stated  theredoes  not support the case for the appellants.	At page	 605it is stated :"  The summons will be ex parte, and should be supported  byaffidavit  showing a strong case for prosecution,  and	alsothe extent of the assets and liabilities.  The court is	 notwilling	 when the assets are small, to sanction	 proceedingswhich may swallow up or largely reduce those assets ".The  form  at p. 607 does not show that	 under	the  EnglishCompanies Act when liberty is given to prosecute the  personaccused	 is heard.  All that is required is that  the  courtwill make its order upon affidavits etc. filed before it andit can also order that the costs and charges incurred by theliquidator shall be paid out of the assets of the company.It  was next contended that although the language of s.	 237was  not in the negative form still the effect of the  wordswas  that  no prosecution could be  instituted	without	 thesanction of the Court being obtained by the liquidator.	  Insupport of the submission counsel(1)  (1883) 31 W.R. 546.1273relied on The Queen v. Cubitt (1) which was a case under theSea  Fisheries Act which created certain offences and by  s.11 provided:"The provisions of this Act............... shall be enforcedby sea-fishery officers ",who  are  defined by that section and it was held  that	 theeffect	of the words was that no one except the	 sea-fisheryofficer could prosecute an offence under the Act.  But thereare  no	 such words of limitation in s. 237.  In  Taylor  v.Taylor(2)  the	words of the statute were "entitled  to	 thepossession  or the receipt of the rents and profits" and  itwas held that the order under the statute could only be madeupon a petition which was within the words above quoted	 andif there was no such person no order could be made but	thatagain  was decided on the peculiar language of the  statute.Counsel also relied on Nazir Ahmad v. Crown (3) where it washeld  that if the statute authorises the doing of an act  inone way then it had to be done in that way or not at all.The argument of Mr. Choudhuri really comes to this that	 thecomplaint  filed  on behalf of the official  liquidator	 wasincompetent  in the absence of a direction under s.  237  orwithout	 complying  with  the procedure laid  down  in	thatsection.  Section 237(1) does not lay down any procedure forthe giving of directions and the provisions in regard to theaction	taken by the registrar do not have any relevancy  towhat  the  court  should  do  before  it  gives	 directions.English	 cases that have been cited do not go to the  extentof saying that no prosecution can be instituted without	 thesanction  of the court.	 They deal with another subject	 andthat  is  the circumstances in which the  Judge	 would	givedirections for prosecution and would sanction the assets  ofthe company to be expanded in prosecution.  Besides  nowherehas  it	 been stated that the court cannot  give  directionswithout	 first	hearing	 the persons  accused  or  that	 thedirections  of	the Judge are a condition precedent  to	 thelawful	 institution   of  criminal   proceedings   by	 theliquidator.(1) (1889) 22 Q.B.D. 622.     (2) (1875) 1 Ch. 426.(3) (1936) L.R. 63 I.A. 372, 381.1274On the other hand it has been held that under s. 179 of	 theIndian Companies Act no sanction is required for  commencinga  prosecution.	 In Jaswantrai Manilal Akhaney v. The  Stateof  Bombay (1) at the instance of the official liquidator  areport	was  lodged  with the police  against  the  ManagingDirector  of a Bank and the police submitted a charge  sheetto the Magistrate.  It was observed by Sinha J. at page 502:" In terms the section laws down the powers of the  officialliquidator.   Such  a Liquidator has to function  under	 thedirections   of	 the  court  which  is	in  charge  of	 theliquidation proceedings.  One of his powers is to  instituteprosecutions in the name and on behalf of the company  underliquidation  with the sanction of the court.   This  sectiondoes not purport to impose any limitations on the powers  ofa  criminal  court  to	entertain  a  criminal	 prosecutionlaunched in the ordinary course under the provisions of	 theCode of Criminal Procedure ".It  was	 also  pointed	out in this  judgment  that  s.	 179contains  no  words corresponding to the  language  of	DrugControl	 Order,	 1943,	which was held	to  be	a  conditionprecedent for instituting prosecution in the case of  BasdeoAggarwalla v. King Emperor (2) nor are there any prohibitorywords  like those that are contained in ss. 196 and  197  ofthe  Criminal  Procedure  Code.	  In  the  former  case	  noprosecution   could  be	 instituted  without  the   previoussanction  of  the  Provincial  Government  and	the   latterprovides     that     "	    no	   court     shall	takecognizance................... There are two cases decided bytwo  Indian High Courts which support the submission of	 therespondents' counsel.In  Emperor  v.	 Bishan	 Sahai (3)  it	was  held  that	 theCompanies  Act nowhere provides that without the  directionsof  a Judge no criminal prosecution can be  instituted.	  InMrityunjoy  Chakravarti v. Provot Kumar Pal(4), it was	heldthat  neither  s.  179	nor s. 237  indicates  that  if	 theliquidator takes action without a(1)  [1956] S.C.R. 483.(2)  [1945] F.C.R. 93.(3)  I.L.R. (1937) All. 779.(4)  A.I.R. 1953 Cal. 153.1275direction  of  the  Court this action would  be	 illegal  orinvalid or it would invalidate a prosecution.It would thus appear that both on the language of s.   237(1)as well as on precedent the complaint made by the liquidatoragainst the appellants suffers from no such infirmity as  tomake the proceedings null and void.  The section contains nosuch words which indicate that such a prosecution cannot  beinstituted by a liquidator without the sanction of the Judgeor  that  the Court cannot take cognizance  of	a  complaintwithout	 such  sanction or direction.  Section	179  as	 thelearned	 Chief	Justice of Calcutta High Court	has  rightlypointed	 out,  deals  with  the	 powers	 of  liquidators  toinstitute  or  defend proceedings with the sanction  of	 theCourt  and s. 237(1) deals with the powers of the  Court  togive  directions  for prosecution of  delinquent  directors,etc.It  was further urged on behalf of the respondents  that  inthe  case  before us there was a proper direction  under  s.237(1).	  The judgment of the High Court shows	that  beforethe  learned Judge gave a direction on July 22, 1952,  therewere  before  him  proper  materials  and,  therefore,	 hissanction was perfectly valid, legal and proper.	 Before thisorder made by Bannerji J. there was an order of Bachawat  J.dated  January 15, 1951, under s. 179 and,  therefore,	whenthe liquidator authorised his Assistant, respondent No. 1 toinstitute  the proceedings he was entitled to do so.  As  wehave  said above even in the absence of such directions	 thelegality of the criminal proceedings instituted would not beaffected.Nothing that we have said in this judgment must be taken  tobe  an	expression of opinion which in any way	affects	 thecontrol	 by the Judge of proceedings in winding up  or	overthe liquidators.We would, therefore, dismiss this appeal.Appeal dismissed.1621276