PETITIONER:RAIGARH JUTE MILLS LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:EASTERN RAILWAY AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:24/03/1958BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BOSE, VIVIANDAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, S.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  525		  1959 SCR  236ACT:       Railway Rates Freight charges-Complaint of undue preference-       Unreasonable and excessive rates-Competitive traffic  Indian       Railways Act, 1890 (9 of 1890), ss. 28, 41HEADNOTE:The  appellant company owned jute mills situated in  Raigarhin  the	 State of Madhya Pradesh, and it had  to  bring	 rawmaterial  from	many railway booking  stations	outside	 theState  as  there was no other means of	transport  both	 forbringing  jute	to the mills and for carrying  the  finishedproducts to ports for export to foreign countries; the	jutemills  in West Bengal and Madras had facilities	 for  directshipment  of  their goods without carriage by  rail  to	 theports,	and so the prices of the products of  the  appellantcould  not be brought down to the competitive level for	 thepurposes of export out of, or sale in, India.  The appellantfiled a complaint before the Railway Rates Tribunal under s.41 of the Indian Railways Act, 1890, on the allegations thatthe Railway administration had contravened the provisions ofs.  28 of the Act in that it had offered special  rates	 forcertain	 stations in its zone to Kanpur which  were  cheaperthan those that were charged between Raigarh and some  otherrailway	 stations,  and	 that the  charges  levied  for	 thefreight	 of  the  appellant's goods  were  unreasonable	 andexcessive.  The Tribunal found that competition between	 thegoods of the Kanpur mills and the appellant's goods had	 notbeen alleged or proved in the present caseHeld, that the mere fact that the goods of the Kanpur  millsare  transported at more favourable rates would not  attractthe  provisions	 of  s.	 28 of	the  Act,  unless  there  iscompetition  between the goods of the Kanpur mills  and	 theappellant's  goods, and undue preference has been  shown  bythe railway administration to the appellant's competitor.Nitshill  and  Lesmahagow  Coal Company	 v.  The  CaladonianRailway Company, (1874) 11 Railway and Canal Traffic  Cases,39,  Denaby Main Colliery Company v.  Manchester,  Sheffieldand  Lincolnshire Railway Company, [1886] 11 App.  Cas.	 97,Lancashire Patent Fuel Company Limited v. London and  North-Western	 Railway  Company,  (1904)  XII	 Railway  and  CanalTraffic	 Cases,	 77 and Lever Brothers, Limited	 v.  MidlandRailway	 Company,  (1909)  XIII Railway	 and  Canal  TrafficCases, 301, relied on.Held,  further, that in considering the question as  to	 thereasonableness	of the railway freight the relevant  factorswould	mainly	 be  the  working  costs  of   the   railwayadministration and237other  material circumstances, and neither the	geographicallocation  of  the appellant on account of which	 it  has  toincur  additional  expenses  of	 transport,  nor  the	costincurred  in  producing	 the jute goods	 nor  the  commodityprices prevailing in the market,- have any relevance.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 231 of 1954.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedAugust 17, 1953, of the Railway Rates Tribunal at Madras  inComplaint Case No. 5 of 1952.S.   C. Isaacs and R. C. Prasad, for the appellant.H. N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor--General of India,H. J. Umrigar and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondents. 1958.	 March 24.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyGAJENDRAGADKAR	J.-This	 is  an	 appeal	 by  special(  leaveagainst	 the  order passed by the  Railway  Rates  Tribunal,hereinafter  called the tribunal, at Madras  dismissing	 theappellant's complaint under s. 41 of the Indian Railways Act(9  of 1890), to be described hereinafter as the  Act.	 Theappellant,  Raigarh  Jute Mills Ltd., is a  limited  companyowning	jute mills which are ,situated in Raigarh in  MadhyaPradesh.   For the production of jute goods,  the  appellanthas  to	 bring raw material, viz., jute	 from  many  railwaybooking	 stations  outside the State of Madhya	Pradesh	 andthere is no other means of transport except by rail both forbringing  jute	to the mills and for carrying  the  finishedproducts  to ports for export to foreign countries.  In	 itscomplaint,  the	 appellant  has	 alleged  that	the  railwayadministration	had contravened the provisions of s.  28  ofthe  Act  and also that the charges levied  by	the  railwayadministration for the freight of the appellant's goods wereunreasonable and excessive.  According to the appellant, theAssam  Railway (now North-Eastern Railway)  offered  specialrates  for jute from certain stations in its zone to  Kanpurand  the basis of these rates was cheaper than that  of	 therates charged between Raigarh and some other stations on theEast  Indian Railway and the Bengal-Nagpur Railway (now	 theEastern Railway).  Both the Eastern Railway and the238North-Eastern Railway are State Railways and as such it	 wasnot  open  to  either  of  them	 to  mete  out	differentialtreatment.   The appellant further contended that the  otherjute'  mills  in West Bengal and Madras had  facilities	 fordirect	shipment of their goods without carriage by rail  tothe  ports,  whereas,  in the case  of	the  appellant,	 therailways  charged  freight  up and down in  respect  of	 theentire	traffic of the appellant ; inevitably the prices  ofthe products of the. appellant could not be brought down  tothe competitive level for the purposes of export out of,  orsale  in,  India.  The appellant annexed  to  its  complainttable,,	 of goods rates of the two railways and	 urged	thatthe  unusual increase in the rates charged to the  appellantwas  telling  very heavily on the appellant as	compared  toother mills.  According to the appellant,' the freight ratesshould	be on the basis prevailing in the year 1949  as	 themarket	had  gone down to the level existing in	 that  year.The  appellant's complaint therefore prayed that, since	 theprevailing  rates  were	 unreasonable  and  excessive,	 thetribunal  should  issue directions for the  introduction  offair and reasonable rates.When  the  complaint was first filed, both the	East  IndianRailway	 with its headquarters at Calcutta and	the  Bengal-Nagpur	Railway	 with its headquarters	at  Kidderpore	wereimpleaded  as respondents.  Subsequently, the railways	werereorganized and the complaint was then suitably amended withthe result that the Eastern Railway with its headquarters atCalcutta was substituted for both the original	respondents.Later  on, the Union of India was impleaded as respondent  2to the complaint.Both  the  respondents denied. the allegations made  in	 thecomplaint.  It was alleged on their behalf that the existingtariff	rates for the movement of jute were  reasonable	 andnot excessive.	It was also alleged by the respondents that,beyond	drawing attention to special rates which applied  totraffic from certain stations on the Assam -Railway  sectionof the NorthEastern Railway to Kanpur, the appellant had notsubmitted  concrete evidence, facts or figures to  make	 outeven a prima facie case that the prevailing tariff239rates for jute were unreasonable.  The respondents' case wasthat  the  fact that the appellant's mill was  situated	 faraway from the port and as such had to incur additional	costhad,  no  relevance or bearing on the case made out  in	 thecomplaint  and	the same cannot be treated as a	 ground	 forconsideration of any special rates.  The Union of India	 hasspecifically'  raised  the additional plea that	 even  afterreorganization	the two railways in question  were  separateentities  and were working in the different  regions  havingmore or less divergent local conditions, and so they did notconstitute one railway administration within the meaning  ofthe Act and s. 28 was therefore inapplicable.On  these contentions four principal issues were  framed  bythe  tribunal.	All the three members of the tribunal  foundthat  the freight rates for the transport of jute to  Kanpurfrom  certain stations in the Katihar section of the  North-Eastern	 Railway were lower than those for its transport  toRaigarh.   In  fact this position was  conceded	 before	 thetribunal.   On the question as to whether the  disparity  inthe said rates amounted to " undue " preference under s.  28of  the	 Act,  the members of the  tribunal  took  differentviews.	The President Mr. Lokur and Mr. Roy, member, were ofthe  opinion that the two railways constituted	one  railwayadministration.	 They thought that it was just and equitableto  hold that, although a railway administration may mean  amanager,  yet  in this case it also  meant  the	 Government.They were, however, not satisfied that the disparity in	 therates  justified the appellant's complaint about "  undue  "preference.   That  is	why they  rejected  the	 appellant'sgrievance  that the railway administration  had	 contravenedthe provisions of s. 28 of the Act.  Mr. Subbarao, the thirdmember of the tribunal, was inclined to take the view  that,though	the final control of both the railways may  be	withthe  Government	 or its representative,	 viz.,	the  RailwayBoard, the actual management of the different zones was withthe respective managers, and so the two railways in questioncannot	be  said to constitute one  railway  administration.Proceeding to deal240with  the appellant's complaint on this basis, Mr.  Subbaraorejected its argument of " undue " preference on the  groundthat  s.  28 was inapplicable in the present case.   In	 theresult,	 the  issue  about " undue  "  preference  was	heldagainst	 the appellant by all the. members of the  tribunal.In  regard to the appellant's case that the increase in	 thefreight	  for	the  transport	of  jute  to   Raigarh	 wasunreasonable and excessive, the President Mr. Lokur and	 Mr.Sabbarao  found	 that the plea had not been  proved  by	 anyevidence.   On	the other hand, Mr. Roy made  a	 finding  infavour of the appellant and held that the rates in  questionwere  shown  to be unreasonable and  excessive.	  Since	 themajority  decision,  however, was against the  appellant  onthis point, the appellant's complaint was dismissed.  It  isagainst this order of the tribunal dismissing its  complaintthat  the  appellant  has come to this Court  in  appeal  byspecial leave.Before dealing with the merits of the contentions raised  bythe  appellant, it would be convenient to refer	 briefly  tothe  provisions of the Act in regard to the constitution  ofthe tribunal as they were in operation at the material time.Section 26 bars jurisdiction of ordinary courts in regard toacts or omissions of the railway administration specified inthe section.  Section 34 deals with the constitution of	 theRailway	 Rates	Tribunal.  According to	 this  section,	 thetribunial  consists  of a President and	 two  other  membersappointed  by the Central Government.  The tribunal  had  todecide the complaint filed before it with the aid of a panelof assessors as prescribed under s. 35 of the Act.   Section46  lays down that the decision of the tribunal shall be  bythe majority of the members sitting and shall be final.	  Itis  obvious  that  this	 provision  about  the	finality  ofthe  tribunal's	 decision cannot affect this Court's jurisd-iction under Art. 136 of the Constitution.Let  us now set	 out the  material  provisions of the Act onwhich the appellant's complaint is founded.Section 28 provides:  "A railway administration shall not make or give any undue orunreasonable preference or advantage to,		    241or   in	 favour	 of,  any  particular  person	or   railwayadministration, or any particular description of traffic, inany respect whatsoever, or subject any particular person  orrailway	 administration	 or any	 particular  description  oftraffic	  to   any  undue  or  unreasonable   prejudice	  ordisadvantage in any respect whatsoever."A  breach  of  the  provisions of  s.  28  by  the  railway'administration may give rise to a complaint under s. 41	 (1)(a).  This section provides for complaints against a railwayadministration on five different grounds enumerated in	cls.(a)  to (e) and it requires that the tribunal to which	suchcomplaints  may	 be  made  shall hear  and  decide  them  inaccordance  with  the provisions of ch.	 V. In	the  presentcase, we are concerned with cls. (a), (b) and (c) of s.	 41,sub-s.	 (1).	 Clause	  (a)  covers	cases	of   allegedcontravention of the provisions of s. 28; el. (b) deals withcases  where  it  is  alleged  that  the  administration  ischarging station to station rates or wagon-load rates  whichare  unreasonable; -and cl. (c) deals with cases  where	 therailway	  administration  is  levying  charges	 which	 areunreasonable.  Then s. 41, sub-s. (2) (i) lays down that, assoon as it is shown that the railway administration  chargesone  trader or class of traders or the traders of any  localarea  lower  rates  for the same or similar  goods  than  itcharges	 to  other  traders or class of traders	 or  to	 thetraders	 in another local area, the burden of  proving	thatsuch  lower  charge does not amount to "  undue"  preferenceshall lie on the railway administration; and s. 41 (2)	(ii)lays  down  that,  in deciding the question  of	 "  undue  "preference,  the  tribunal  may, in addition  to  any  otherconsiderations	affecting the case, take into  considerationwhether	 such lower charge is necessary in the	interest  ofthe  public.   The decision of the questions raised  by	 theappellant  before  us  will depend upon the  scope  and	 theeffect	of the provisions contained in ss. 28 and 41 of	 theAct.Section	 28  is obviously based on the	principle  that	 thepower derived from the monopoly of railway carriage must  beused in a fair and just manner in respect of all persons andall descriptions of traffic31242passing	 over  the  railway area.   In	other  words,  equalcharges	 should normally be levied against persons or  goodsof  the	 same  or similar kinds passing	 over  the  same  orsimilar	 area  of the railway lines and under  the  same  orsimilar circumstances; but this rule does not mean that,  ifthe railway administration charges unequal rates in  respectof  the	 same or similar class of goods traveling  over	 thesame  or similar areas, the inequality of rates	 necessarilyattracts  the  provisions of s. 28.  All  cases	 of  unequalrates  cannot necessarily be treated as cases of  preferencebecause	  the	very  concept	of   preference	  postulatescompetition   between  the  person  or	 traffic   receivingpreference and the person or traffic suffering prejudice  inconsequence.  It is only as between competitors in the	sametrade  that a complaint of preference can be made by one  inreference  to  the other.  If there is no  such	 competitionthen no complaint of preference can be made even though	 thecharges	 levied against similar goods may not be equal.	  Itmay be possible to assume that there is competition  betweensimilar	 commodities put on the market in the same area	 fordomestic consumption; but no such competition can be assumedbetween	 traffic of goods for export and traffic of  similargoods  for  home  consumption.	It is  only  when  goods  orpersons	 can  be said to be _pari passu that a	question  ofpreference arises and so it is where the competition betweentwo persons or classes of goods is either admitted or provedthat  the  question of the application of s. 28	 would	everarise.	 Then  again,  even as between	competing  goods  orpersons, it would not be enough to prove mere preference  toattract	 the  provisions of s. 28, for	theoretically  everycase of preference may not necessarily be a case of "  undue"  preference.	 It is only when the tribunal  is  satisfiedthat  the  railway  administration  has	 shown	"  undue   "preference  in favour of a particular class of goods that  acomplaint  can be successfully entertained under s.  41	 (1)(a).   The  position under s. 28 thus appears to  be  clear.Whoever	 complains against the railway	administration	thatthe provisions of s. 28 have been contravened must establishthat243there  has been preference between himself and his goods  onthe one hand and his competitor and his goods on the  other;and where it appears to the tribunal that such preference is"  undue " preference, the complainant would be entitled  toadequate relief under s. 41 (1) (a) of the Act.It  is true that, while enquiring into the  complaint'	madeunder s. 41, as soon as the complainant shows inequality  ofrates  and proves that the competing goods are charged	lessthan   his   own,  the	onus  shifts  on  to   the   railwayadministration	to  prove that such lower  charge  does	 notamount to " undue " preference.	 The initial burden to provepreference  is on the complainant; but when the said  burdenis  discharged by the proof of unequal rates as between	 thecomplainant  and  his  competitor, it  is  for	the  railwayadministration	to prove that the preference is not "  undue".  In the absence of satisfactory evidence adduced  by	 therailway	 administration in justification of  unequal  rates,the  tribunal  may hold that the  unequal  rates  complainedagainst by the complainant amounts to " undue "	 preference.If,  on	 the other hand, the  railway  administration  leadsevidence  to  show justification for the inequality  of	 therates, then notwithstanding the existence of unequal  rates,the   tribunal	 need	not  necessarily   find	  that	 theadministration	has  contravened the provisions	 of  s.	 28,because	 it  is	 only  where " undue  "	 preference  by	 theadministration	is  shown  that	 it  can  be  said  to	havecontravened  the said section.	In considering the  questionas  to whether the alleged preference amounts to "  undue  "preference  or	not, the tribunal may also -be	entitled  toconsider   whether   the   lower  charge   levied   by	 theadministration	in respect of the competing class  of  goodswas  necessary in the interest of the public.  That  is	 theresult of the provisions of s. 41, sub-s. (2)(i) and (ii).In  this  connection  we may refer to some  of	the  Englishdecisions  to  which  our attention was	 invited.  In  LeverBrothers,  Limited  v. Midland Railway Company (1),  it	 washeld  that  the railway was not called upon to	justify	 thedisparity of rates on which the(1)  (1909) XIII Railway and Canal Traffic Cases, 301.244complaint by Lever Brothers, Limited, was based because	 theapplicants  had	 failed to establish that Messrs.  J.  W.  &Sons,  Limited,	 in  respect  of whom  the  lower  rate	 wascharged, were the competitors of the applicants.   Referringto  the	 fact that the rates charged to the  two  respectivecompanies  were different, Vaughan Williams L.	J.  observedthat  he did not think that the difference in  rates  itselfconstituted  any  undue preference by  the  Midland  RailwayCompany	 of  Watsons as competitors of Levers.	One  of	 thereasons	 why the complaint made by Lever Brothers,  Limited,failed was that it was not shown that Messrs.  J. W. & Sons,Limited,  were competitors of Lever Brothers'  Limited,	 andthat eliminated the application of s. 27 (1) of the  Railwayand  Canal  Traffic Act of 1888.   Similarly  in  LancashirePatent	Fuel  Company Limited v. London and  North-  WesternRailway Company (1), it was held that no competition existedbetween coal carried for shipment, and that carried for	 thetrader	and so the application made on the ground  of  unduepreference was incompetent.  It was proved in this case thatthe  applicant's slack was carried by the railway  companiesat  a higher rate than that for slack carried for  shipment;but the complaint based on this unequal charges was rejectedon  the	 ground	 that " it cannot be  said  that  the  slackcarried	 by  the railway companies for the  applicants	evercomes  into competition with the slack which is	 carried  bythe railway companies for ordinary shipment ". On the  otherhand,  in  The Nitshill and Lesmahagow Coal Company  v.	 TheCaledonian Railway Company (2), it was held that the railwayadministration	had  shown undue preference because  it	 wasproved	that the goods unequally charged  were	commerciallyand  substantially  of the same description  and  there	 wascompetition  between  them.  Whether or not the	 goods	werecommercially  and substantially of the same description	 wasthe   point   in  issue	 between  the	parties;   but	 thecomplainant's  case was accepted and it was found  that,  onthe whole, the two articles(1)  (1904) XII Railway and Canal Traffic Cases, 77, 79.(2)  (1874) 11 Railway and Canal Traffic Cases, 39, 45.245were substantially of the same description " and cannot	 butbe  regarded as competitive and that there ought not  to  beany  difference	 in the rates at which they are	 carried  ".This  decision shows that if unequal rates are	charged	 forthe  carriage  of  similar or  same  goods  travelling	oversimilar	 or same areas, then the, inference as to " undue  "preference  can	 be drawn unless the preference	 alleged  isotherwise shown to be justified by valid reasons.  In DenabyMain   Colliery	 Company  v.  Manchester,   Sheffield,	 andLincolnshire  Railway Company (1), the Earl of Selborne,  inhis  speech, observed that he did not think it	possible  tohold  (looking	at the context in which the  material  wordsstand)	that  " the mere fact of inequality in the  rate  ofcharge when unequal distances are traversed can constitute apreference  inconsistent with them ". It may be pointed	 outincidentally that the provisions of s. 2 of the Railway	 andCanal  Traffic	Act,  1854  (17	 &  18	Vict.  c.  31)	 aresubstantially similar to the provisions of s. 28 in our Act.Thus it is clear on these authorities that a complaint	madeunder  s.  41(1)(a)  can succeed only if it  is	 shown	thatpreference  has been shown by the railway administration  tothe  complainant's  competitor and  the	 administration	 hasfailed	to  adduce  evidence in justification  of  the	saidpreference.  It will now be necessary to consider the meritsof the appellant's case in the light of this legal position.The  application  made by the appellant does  not  in  termsallege	any "undue" preference at all.	Mr. Isaacs, for	 theappellant,  conceded  that  the	 application  had  not	beenhappily	 worded; but his comment was that the  pleadings  ofboth  the parties are far from satisfactory.  That no  doubtis  true;  but if the appellant wanted to make	out  a	caseagainst the railway administration under s. 41(1)(a), it wasnecessary  that	 he should have set up a  specific  case  of"undue"	 preference.  The application does allege  that	 themills  at Kanpur are able to carry raw jute at a lower	ratebut  there  is no allegation that between the goods  of	 theKanpur mills and the goods(1)  (1886) 11 App.  Cas. 97,114.246of the appellant there is any competition in the market.  Onthe  other  hand, the application refers  to  the  advantageenjoyed	 by the jute mills in West Bengal and'	Madras	overthe appellant.	Reading the complaint filed by the appellantas a whole, it would .appear that the complaint by necessaryimplication  refers to the competition between the goods  ofWest  Bengal  and Madras mills on the one hand and  the	 ap-pellant's  goods on the other.	The appellant no doubt	alsoavers  that the rate charged for the transport of the  goodsare  unreasonable and excessive but that is another part  ofthe complaint which we will consider separately.  It  would,therefore,  be difficult to accept Mr. Isaaes argument	thatthe  appellant's  complaint should be read as  including  anallegation  about competition between the appellant and	 theKanpur	mills.	If no such allegation has been made  by	 theappellant  in  his  complaint,	it  would  not	be  fair  tocriticise the respondents for not denying the existence,  ofany such competition.But  apart  from this technical	 difficulty,  the  appellantcannot	even  refer  to any evidence on which  it  would  bepossible to base a conclusion as to the competition  betweenthe  goods produced by the Kanpur mills and the	 appellant'sgoods.	 Mr.  Isaacs has taken us through  the	evidence  ofAmritlal  Bannerjee, Mustafi and Paul; but we have not	beenable  to  see any statement made by any of  these  witnesseswhich  would show that there was a competition	between	 thetwo sets of goods.  On the other hand, such meagre  evidenceas is available on the record would seem to suggest that thegoods produced by the Kanpur mills are sent to local marketsfor  domestic  consumption  and do not enter  the  field  ofcompetition  with  the	appellant's  goods  at	all.	Thatpresumably is the reason why the appellant could not  allegeany  competition  between  its goods and the  goods  of	 theKanpur	mills and none of the witnesses could speak  to	 it.Mr.  Isaacs was thus constrained to refer to  the  statement(R-18) filed by the respondents for the purposes of  showingthat  the  appellant's goods travelled to  some	 centres  inIndia which may be covered by the goods of the Kanpur247mills.	 In our opinion, this is an argument of	 desperationand  it	 cannot help the appellant.  One  of  the  questionswhich  was  apparently	raised before the  tribunal  was  inrespect	 of  the volume of traffic and it is  in  connectionwith  this  particular	part of the  dispute  that  relevantstatements were prepared by the respondents and filed beforethe  tribunal.	It would, we think, be unreasonable to	makeuse  of some of the statements contained in these  documentsfor  the purpose of deciding whether the  appellant's  goodsand  the  goods	 produced by the  Kanpur  mills	 enter	intocompetition  in the markets in India.  If the appellant	 hadattempted  to  lead evidence on this point  the	 respondentswould  naturally  have	had an	opportunity  to	 rebut	thatevidence.   It	is too late now to make out a case  of	thisalleged competition and seek to prove it by stray statementscontained  in the document filed by the	 respondents  beforethe tribunal for a wholly different purpose.  That being theposition of the evidence on the record we have no difficultyin  accepting  the  view of the	 tribunal  that	 competitionbetween	 the goods of the Kanpur mills and  the	 appellant'sgoods  has  not	 been  alleged	or  proved  in	the  presentproceedings.   If that be the true position, then  the	merefact  that the goods of the Kanpur mills are transported  atmore favourable rates would not attract the provisions of s.28 of the Act.The next question which remains to be considered is  whetherthe  appellant	has  proved that the rates  charged  by	 theadministration	in respect of the goods transported  by	 theappellant  are	per  se unreasonable.	On  this  point	 theappellant  has led no evidence at all.	In its complaint  ithas  no doubt averred that there has been an undue  increasein  the freight charges but no allegation is made as to	 whyand  how the, actual charges are unreasonable.	 It  appearsthat the appellant is under a disadvantage because its millsare situated at Raigarh in Madhya Pradesh far away from	 theshipping  centres  of transport and the competing  mills  inWest Bengal and Madras are very near the export centres: butthe fact that by its geographical location the appellant hasto incur, additional248expenses  of transport would not be relevant in	 consideringthe  reasonableness  of the freight charges.  It  is  commonground that the freight charges are levied at the same	rateby the railway administration in respect of either raw	juteor  jute  products  against  all the  mills.   There  is  noinequality  of rates so far as the -mills in this  zone	 areconcerned.  The appellant appears, to have argued before thetribunal  that the rates of freight leviable by the  railwayadministration	should	have  some  relation  to  the  costsincurred  by  the appellant in producing the jute  goods  aswell as the commodity prices prevailing in the market.	Thisargument  has  been rejected by the tribunal  and  we  thinkrightly.   It seems to us clear that the costs	incurred  bythe  appellant	which  are partly  due	to  the	 appellant'sgeographical  position	can have no  relevance	whatever  indetermining  the reasonableness or otherwise of the  railwayfreight charged by the railway administration.	Nor can	 therailway	 freight move up and down with the rise and fall  ofthe  commodity prices.	In dealing with the  question  aboutthe   reasonableness  of  the  railway	freight,  it   wouldnaturally  be relevant to consider mainly the working  costsof   the   railway   administration   and   other   materialcircumstances.	When a complaint is made against the railwayadministration	under s. 41(1)(b) or (c), the onus to  provethe  alleged  unreasonableness of the freight rests  on	 thecomplainant  and  if  the complainant  makes  no  effort  todischarge this onus his plea that the rates are unreasonablemust inevitably fail.It appears that Mr. Roy, one of the members of the tribunal,was  inclined to take the view that the special rates  givento  the Kanpur mills in Katihar area should be	regarded  asnormal and reasonable rates; and since the rates charged  tothe appellant were higher than the said rates, he held	thatthe rates charged against the appellant are unreasonable perse.   In our opinion, this view is entirely erroneous.	 Therates  charged	to the Kanpur mills are	 admittedly  specialrates.	 Whether or not these concessional or special  ratesshould	have  been granted to the Kanpur mills is  a  matterwith which the present enquiry is249not  concerned.	  There may be reasons to justify  the	saidconcessional  rates;  but it is plain that  the	 special  orconcessional rates charged by the railway administration  inanother	 zone  cannot  be  treated as  the  sole  basis	 fordetermining  what  rates should be charged by  the  railway.administration in other zones, and so we do not see how	 theappellant can successfully challenge the majority finding ofthe tribunal that the rates charged against the	 appellant'sgoods  are  not	 shown to be unreasonable per  se.   In	 theresult	we  must  hold that the tribunal  was  justified  inrejecting  the complaint made by the appellant.	 The  appealtherefore fails and must be dismissed with costs.Before we part with this case, we would like to mention	 twopoints	which  were  sought to be argued before	 us  by	 thelearned	 Additional  Solicitor-General	on  behalf  of	 therespondents.  He challenged the correctness of the  majorityview of the tribunal that the two railways operating in	 twodifferent   zones  in  question	 constituted   one   railwayadministration	within	the  meaning of s.  3,	sub-s.	(6).Alternatively, he argued that, even if the two railways wereheld  to constitute one railway administration and that	 thedisparity  in charges amounted to the granting of " undue  "preference  to	the  Kanpur mills, s. 46 of the	 Act  was  acomplete  answer to the complaint under s. 41(1)(a).   Sincewe  have  held in favour of the respondents  on	 the  pointsurged before us by Mr. Isaacs on behalf of the appellant, wedo not propose to deal with the merits of these contentions.				 Appeal dismissed.32250