PETITIONER:THE HINGIR-RAMPUR COAL CO., LTD. AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF ORISSA AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:21/11/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.MUDHOLKAR, J.R.CITATION: 1961 AIR  459		  1961 SCR  (2) 537 CITATOR INFO : R	    1963 SC 703	 (23) F	    1964 SC1284	 (11,14) D	    1965 SC 177	 (8) R	    1965 SC1107	 (17,48,50) APL	    1970 SC1436	 (14,15,16) R	    1971 SC1182	 (7) F	    1975 SC 846	 (14) RF	    1976 SC1654	 (5,19,24,25) AFR	    1980 SC   1	 (13) R	    1980 SC1008	 (13,14) RF	    1980 SC1955	 (41) RF	    1981 SC 711	 (11) RF	    1981 SC 951	 (11) R	    1983 SC 617	 (6) R	    1983 SC 930	 (7) F	    1983 SC1246	 (30) R	    1984 SC 420	 (15) RF	    1985 SC 218	 (7,9) D	    1985 SC1211	 (41) RF	    1986 SC 726	 (11) RF	    1987 SC2034	 (16) RF	    1989 SC 317	 (34) R	    1989 SC2015	 (10) F	    1990 SC  85	 (26,30) R	    1990 SC1637	 (47) E	    1991 SC1676	 (5,6,9,13,15,18,27,42,48,50,52 RF	    1992 SC1383	 (14) R	    1992 SC2038	 (3,7)ACT:Mining Areas, Development of--Enactment by State Legislatureauthorising  constitution  of mining areas  and	 developmentfund-Imposition	 of cess-Constitutional	 validity-Competencyof  State Legislature-Orissa Mining Areas  Development	FundAct,  1952  (Orissa  XXVII of 1952),  S.  4-Constitution  ofIndia,	Art. 372, Seventh Schedule, List II, Entry  23,	 66,List I, Entries 52, 54, 84--Adaptation of Laws Order,  1950,cls. 16, 21.HEADNOTE:The  petitioners challenged the constitutional	validity  ofthe Orissa Mining Areas Development Fund Act, 1952, which bys.  3  empowered the State Government to  constitute  miningareas  for  the	 purpose  of  providing	 them  with  certainamenities after hearing objections from the lessees, by s. 4to  impose  and	 collect  a cess not  exceeding	 5%  of	 thevaluation  of  the minerals at the pit's mouth and by  s.  5created	 a fund to which the cess was to be  credited.	 Thepetitioners' case, inter alia, was that the impugned Act andthe rules made thereunder were ultra vires the powers of theState Legislature, the cess levied thereunder was not a	 feebut  a duty of excise on coal within Entry 84 of List  I  ofthe  Seventh Schedule to the Constitution and  repugnant  toCoal  Mines  Labour  Welfare Fund Act, 1947  (Act  XXXII  of1947),	and,  alternatively,  even supposing it	 was  a	 feerelatable  to  Entries 23 and 66 of List II, it was  hit  byEntry  54  of  List  I read  with  the	Mines  and  Minerals(Regulation and Development) Act 1948 (Act LIII of 1948), orby Entry 52 of List I read with the Industries	(Developmentand  Regulation) Act, 1951 (Act LXV of 1951).  It was  urgedon behalf of the State, inter alia, that the cess was a	 feeand  not  a duty of excise and the competence of  the  StateLegislature to levy it was not affected by the Central Acts.Held  (per Gajendragadkar, Sarkar, Subba Rao and  Mudholkar,JJ.),  that the cess imposed by the Act was a fee  relatableto  Entries 23 and 66 of List II of the Seventh Schedule  tothe  Constitution  and the Constitutional  validity  of	 theimpugned Act was beyond question.Although  there can be no generic difference between  a	 taxand  a fee since both are compulsory exactions of  money  bypublic	authorities, there is this distinction between	themthat  whereas  a  tax is imposed  for  public  purposes	 andrequires  no  consideration to support it, a fee  is  leviedessentially  for  services  rendered and there	must  be  anelement of quid pro quo between the person538who pays it and the public authority that imposes it.  Whilea  tax invariably goes into the consolidated fund, a fee  isearmarked  for the specified services in a fund created	 forthe  purpose.	Whether	 a cess is one or  the	other  wouldnaturally depend on the facts of each case.  If in the guiseof a fee, the Legislature imposes a tax, it is for the Courton  a scrutiny of the scheme of the levy, to  determine	 itsreal  character.   The	distinction  is	 recognised  by	 theConstitution   which   while  empowering   the	 appropriateLegislatures  to levy taxes under the Entries in  the  threelists  refers to their power to levy fees in respect of	 anysuch matters, except the fees taken in court, and tests havebeen  laid down by this Court for determining the  characterof an impugned levy.Matthews  v.  Chicory Marketing Board, 60  C.L.R.  263,	 TheCommissioner,  Hindu  Religious Endowments,  Madras  v.	 SriLakshmindra  Thirtha  Swamiar  of Sri  Shirur  Mutt,  [1954]S.C.R. 1005, Mahant Sri Jagannath Ramanuj Das & Any. v.	 TheState  of Orissa, [1954] S.C.R. 1046, and Ratilal  PanachandGandhi v. The State of Bombay, [1954] S.C.R. 1055,  referredto.P.   P.	 Kutti	Keva & Ors. v. The State of  Madras,  A.I.R.1954  Mad.  621, Attorney-General for  British	Columbia  v.Esquimalt  and	Nanaimo	 Railway  Co., (1950)  A.C.  87	 andParton	&  Any. v. Mils Board (Victoria), (1949)  80  C.L.R.229, considered and held inapplicable.In determining whether a levy is a fee the true test must bewhether	 its  primary  and essential purpose  is  to  renderspecific services to a specified area or class, it being  ofno consequence that the State may ultimately and  indirectlybe benefited by it.So  judged, the scheme of the impugned Act leaves no  mannerof  doubt that the levy authorised by it is a fee and not  atax.The  amount  of the levy must depend on the  extent  of	 theservices   sought   to	 be  rendered  and   if	  they	 areproportionate,	it would be unreasonable to say	 that  sincethe  impost is high it must be a duty of excise.   The	ratespecified by s. 4(2) of the Act, therefore, cannot by itselfalter the character of the levy and constitute a trespass bythe  State  Legislature	 on the legislative  powers  of	 theParliament under Entry 84 of the List I.Nor  can  the method prescribed by the Legislature  for	 re-covering the levy by itself alter its character.  The methodis  a matter of convenience and, though relevant, has to  betested in the light of other relevant circumstances.  It  isnot  permissible  to  challenge	 the  vires  of	 a   statuterelatable  to an Entry in List II solely on the ground	thatthe  method adopted for the recovery of the impost  can	 andgenerally is adopted in levying a duty of excise.Ralla Ram v. The Province of East Punjab, [1948] F.C.R. 207,Byramjee Jeejeebhoy v. The Province of Bombay & Anr.  I.L.R.5391940 Bom. 58 and Governor-General in Council v. Province  ofMadras, (1945)'L.R. 72 I.A. 91, considered.The  limitation	 imposed by the latter part of Entry  23  ofList II is a limitation on the legislative competence of theState'	Legislature  itself and the test whether  a  statutepassed	by the State Legislature thereunder was ultra  vireswould  be whether the requisite declaration under Entry	 54,List I, has been made by Parliament by law covering the samefield  or  not;	 it is not necessary in order  to  make	 thedeclaration  effective	that rules should also be  made	 andenforced.Although  by operation of Art. 372 of the  Constitution	 ActLIII of 1948 was an existing Act substantially covering	 thesame  field  as covered by the impugned Act,  there  was  noadaptation of S. 2 of that Act whereby a declaration impliedby it could be said to have been adapted to a declaration byParliament.   Clause  16 of the Adaptation  of	Laws  Order,1950,  properly	 construed, cannot be held to refer  to	 theDominion Legislature and equate it with the Parliament.	  Itcan  be	 resorted to only where the existing  law  expresslyrefers	to  some  authority that can  be  equated  with	 thecorresponding	new   authorities.    Since   the   DominionLegislature was not so referred to, its competence under theConstitution  Act of 1935, repealed by the  Constitution  ofIndia,	was clearly outside the clause.	 Nor can Cl.  21  ofthe order be of any help to the petitioners.Consequently, in the absence of the requisite  Parliamentarydeclaration, the competence of the Orissa State	 Legislatureunder  Entry  23 read with Entry 66 of the List II  was	 notimpaired and the impugned Act must be deemed to have repeal-ed the Central Act, so far as that State was concerned.This  case  incidentally  discloses that in  regard  to	 therequisite  Parliamentary declaration prescribed by Entry  54in  List I in its application to the  pre-constitution	Actsunder  corresponding Entry 36 in List I of the	ConstitutionAct of 1935, there is a lacuna which has not been covered byany clauses of the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950.Nor  was the impugned Act ultra vires the State	 Legislatureby  operation  of Entry 52 of List I read with S. 2  of	 theIndustries  (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951  (LXV  of1951).	That Act, in pith and substance, deals more directlywith  the control of certain specified industries  includingthe coal industry, while the impugned Act is concerned	withthe development of the mining-areas notified under it.	 Thefield covered by the two Acts was not, therefore, the same.per  Wanchoo, J.-In order to determine whether a levy  is  atax or a fee, what has to be considered is the pith and sub-stance of the levy.  Where the levy in pith and substance isnot essentially different from a tax, it cannot be convertedinto  a fee by crediting it to a special fund and  attachingcertain services to it.540The Commissioner, Hindu Religious Endowments, Madras, v. SriLakshmindra  Thirtha  Swamiar  of Sri  Shirur  Mutt,  [1954]S.C.R. 1005, Mahant Sri Jaannath Ramanuj Das v. The State ofOrissa,	 [1954] S.C.R. 1046 and Ratilal Panachand Gandhi  v.The State of Bombay, [1954] S.C.R. 1055, discussed.A  duty of excise in pith and substance is primarily a	dutylevied	on  a  manufacturer or producer in  respect  of	 thecommodity  manufactured	 or produced.  It is  different	 anddistinct from a sales tax and in law they do not overlap.Governor-General  in Council v. Province of Madras, 72	I.A.91, referred to.What the impugned Act did was to provide for the levying  ofthe cess on the goods produced at a rate not exceeding	fiveper  centum of the value at the pit's mouth.  The cess	was,therefore,  in pith and substance a duty of  excise  fallingwithin Entry 84 of List I, which the State legislature couldnot levy.It  was not correct to say that the method employed  by	 theimpugned  Act  for realising the cess was a mere  method  ofquantification	and did not affect its character  which	 wasthat  of  a fee.  In the present case the very mode  of	 thelevy of the cess is nothing other than the levy of a duty ofexcise, and, therefore, the principle of quantification	 forpurposes  of  a fee could not be so extended as	 to  convertwhat was in pith and substance a tax into a fee.Sri  Byramjee Jeejeebhoy v. The Province of  Bombay,  I.L.R.1940 Bom. 58, Municipal Corporation, Ahmedabad v. Patel Gor-dhandas	 Hargovandas, I.L.R. 1054 Bom. 41 and Ralla  Ram  v.The Province of East Punjab, [1948] F.C.R. 207, considered.K.   C. Gajapati Narayan Deo v. The State of Orissa,  [1954]S.C. R. 1, referred to.The cess levied under s. 4 of the Act could not be justifiedas a tax on mineral rights under Entry 50 of List II of	 theSeventh	 Schedule  and	the impugned Act  was  in  effect  acolourable piece of legislation.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 87 of 1959.Petition  under	 Art. 32 of the Constitution  of  India	 forenforcement of Fundamental Rights.M.   P. Amin, Dara P. Mehta, P. M. Amin; S. N. Andley, J. B.Dadachanji,   Rameshwar	 Nath  and  P.	L.  Vohra  for	 thepetitioners.A.   V.	 Viswanatha  Sastri, R. Ganapathy  Iyer,  P.  KesavaPillai and T. M. Sen, for the respondents.H.   N.	 Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of  India,  B.Sen and R. H. Dhebar, for the Intervener.5411960.  November, 21.  The, Judgment of P. B. Gajendragadkar,A.  K.	Sarkar, K. Subba Rao and J. R. Mudholkar,  JJ.,	 wasdelivered  by  P. B. Gajendragadkar J., K. N.  Wanchoo,	 J.,delivered a separate judgment.GAJENDRAGADKAR, J.-This is a petition filed under Art. 32 ofthe Constitution in which the validity of the Orissa  MiningAreas  Development  Fund Act,(-, 1952 (XXVII  of  1952),  ischallenged.   The  first  petitioner  is  a  public  limitedcompany which has its registered office at Bombay.  A  largemajority of its shareholders are citizens of India; some  ofthem are themselves companies incorporated under the  IndianCompanies Act.	Petitioners Nos. 2 to 7 are the Directors ofPetitioner  No. 1, the second petitioner being the  Chairmanof  its	 Board	of Directors.	These  petitioners  are	 allcitizens  of  India.   At  all	material  times	 the   firstpetitioner  carried on and still carries on the business  ofproducing and selling coal excavated from its collieries  atRampur	in  the	 State 'of Orissa.   Two  leases  have	beenexecuted  in its favour; the first was executed	 on  October17,  1941, by the Governor of Orissa whereby all that  pieceor parcel of land in the registration district of  Sambalpuradmeasuring  about  3341.79  acres has been  demised  for  aperiod	of  30 years commencing from September 1,  1939,  inconsideration  of the rent reserved thereby and	 subject  tothe covenants and conditions prescribed thereunder; and	 thesecond	is  a surface lease executed in its  favour  by	 Mr.Mohan Brijraj Singh Dee on April 19, 1951, in relation to  aland  admeasuring  approximately  211.94 acres	for  a	likeperiod	of  30 years commencing from February  4,  1939,  inconsideration  of  the	rent and subject to  the  terms	 andconditions prescribed by it.Pursuant to s. 5 of the Orissa Estates Abolition Act,  1951,all the right, title and interest of the Zamindar of  Rampurin  the	 lands	demised to the first  petitioner  under	 thesecond	lease  vested in respondents, the State	 of  Orissa.Since  then  the  first petitioner has duly  paid  the	rentreserved  by the said lease to the  appropriate	 authoritiesappointed by respondent 1,69542and  has  observed  and performed  all	the  conditions	 andcovenants  of  the said lease.	In exercise  of	 its  rightsunder the said two leases the first petitioner entered	uponthe  lands demised and has been carrying on the business  ofexcavating and producing coal at its collieries at Rampur.In  December, 1952, the Legislature of the State  of  Orissapassed	the impugned Act; and it received the assent of	 theGovernor  of Orissa on December 10, 1952.  It was,  however,not reserved for the consideration of the President of Indianor  has it received his assent.  In pursuance of the  rule-making power conferred on it by the impugned Act  respondent1 has purported to make rules called the Orissa Mining AreasDevelopment  Act  Rules, 1955; these rules  have  been	dulynotified in the State Gazette on January 25, 1955.Subsequently,  the  Administrator, respondent  2,  appointedunder  the  impugned Act issued a notification on  June	 24,1958,  whereby	the first petitioner's Rampur  colliery	 hasbeen  notified for the purpose of liability for the  paymentof  cess under the impugned Act.  The area of this  collieryhas  been determined at 3341.79 acres.	In its appeal  filedunder  rule  3	before	the  Director  of  Mines  the  firstpetitioner  objected to the issue of the said  notification,inter  alia,  on the ground that the impugned  Act  and	 therules  framed  under  it were ultra vires  and	invalid;  noaction	 has,  however,	 been  taken  on  the  said   appealpresumably because the authority concerned could not  enter-tain or deal with the objections about the vires of the	 Actand the rules.Thereafter  on March 26, 1959, the Assistant  AdministrativeOfficer,  respondent 3, called upon the first petitioner  tosubmit monthly returns for the assessment of the cess.	 Thefirst  petitioner  then	 represented that it  had  filed  anappeal	 setting   forth   its	 objections   against	 thenotification,  and  added  that until the  said	 appeal	 wasdisposed  of no returns would be filed by it.  In  spite  ofthis  representation respondent 3, by his letter of  May  6,1959, called upon the543first petitioner to submit monthly returns in the prescribedform  and  issued the warning that  failing  compliance	 thefirst  petitioner  would  be prosecuted under s.  9  of	 theimpugned  Act.	 A similiar demand was made  and  a  similarwarning	 issued by respondent 3 by his letter dated June  6,1959.	It  is under these circumstances  that	the  presentpetition has been filed.The petitioners contend that the impugned Act and' the rulesmade   thereunder  are	ultra  vires  the  powers   of	 theLegislature of the State of Orissa, or in any event they arerepugnant  to the provisions of an existing law.   Accordingto  the petition the cess levied under the impugned  Act  isnot  a fee but is in reality and in substance a levy in	 thenature of a duty of excise on the coal produced at the firstpetitioner's  Rampur  colliery, and as such  is	 beyond	 thelegislative   competence   of	the   Orissa	Legislature.Alternatively  it is urged that even if the levy imposed  bythe impugned Act is a fee relatable to Entries 23 and 66  inList  II of the Seventh Schedule, it would  nevertheless  beultra  vires having regard to the provisions of Entry 54  inList I read with Central Act LIII of 1948.  The	 petitionersfurther	 allege that even if the said levy is held to  be  afee it would be similarly ultra vires having regard to Entry52  in List I read with Central Act LXV of 1951.   Accordingto  the petitioners the impugned Act is really relatable  toEntry 24 in List III, and since it is repugnant with CentralAct  XXXII of 1947 relatable to the same Entry and  coveringthe same field the impugned Act is invalid to the extent  ofthe  said repugnancy under Art. 254.  On  these	 allegationsthe  petitioners  have applied for a writ of mandamus  or  awrit in the nature of the said writ or any other writ, orderor direction prohibiting the respondents from enforcing	 anyof  the	 provisions of the impugned Act	 against  the  firstpetitioner;  a	similar	 writ or order	is  claimed  againstrespondent  3 in respect of the letters addressed by him  tothe 1st petitioner on March 3, 1959 and June 6, 1959.This  petition	is  resisted  by  respondent  1	 on  severalgrounds.  It is urged on its behalf that the levy544imposed by the impugned Act is a fee relatable to Entries 23and 66 in List II and its validity is not affected either byEntry  54  read with Act LIII of 1948 or by 'Entry  52	readwith  Act LXV of 1951.	In the alternative it  is  contendedthat if the said levy is held to be a tax and not a fee,  itwould be a tax relatable to Entry 50 in List II, and as suchthe  legislative  competence  of the  State  Legislature  toimpose	 the   same  cannot  be	  successfully	 challenged.Respondent  1 disputes the petitioner's contention that	 theimpugned  Act is relatable to Entry 24 in List III; and	 so,according to it, no question of repugnancy with the  CentralAct XXXII of 1947 arises.After  this  appeal  was fully argued  before  us  Mr.	Aminsuggested-and Mr. Sastri did not object-that we should	hearthe  learned Attorney-General on the question as to  whethereven  if  the  levy imposed by the impugned  Act  is  a	 feerelatable  to  Entries 23 and 66 in List II of	the  SeventhSchedule, it would nevertheless be ultra vires having regardto  the provisions of Entry 54 in List I read  with  CentralAct LIII of 1948.  Accordingly we directed that a notice  onthis point should be served on the learned  Attorney-Generaland  the case should be set down for hearing on	 that  pointagain.	  For  the  learned  Attorney-General  the   learnedAdditional Solicitor-General appeared before us in  responseto  this notice and we have had the benefit of	hearing	 hisarguments on the point in question.The first question which falls for consideration is  whetherthe  levy  imposed  by the impugned Act	 amounts  to  a	 feerelatable to Entry 23 read with Entry 66 in List II.  Beforewe  deal with this question it is necessary to consider	 thedifference  between  the concept of tax and that of  a	fee.The neat and terse definition of tax which has been given byLatham, C. J., in Matthews v. Chicory Marketing Board (1) isoften  cited  as a classic on this subject.  "A	 tax",	saidLatham, C. J., "is a compulsory exaction of money by  publicauthority for public purposes enforceable by law, and is notpayment	 for  services	rendered".   In	 bringing  out	 theessential features of a tax this defini-(1) (1938) 60 C.L.R. 263, 276.			    545tion also assists in distinguishing a tax from a fee.  It istrue  that  between  a tax and a fee  there  is	 no  genericdifference.   Both  are compulsory exactions  of  money.  bypublic authorities; but whereas a tax is imposed for  publicpurposes  and  is  not, and need not, be  supported  by	 anyconsideration of service rendered in return, a fee is leviedessentially  for services rendered and as such there  is  anelement of quid pro quo between the person who pays the	 feeand  the  public authority which imposes  it.	If  specificservices  are rendered to a specific area or to	 a  specificclass of persons or trade or business in any local area, andas a condition precedent for the said services or in  returnfor  them cess is levied against the said area or  the	saidclass	of  persons  or	 trade	or  business  the  cess	  isdistinguishable	 from a tax and is described as a fee.	 Taxrecovered  by  public  authority invariably  goes  into	 theconsolidated  fund  which  ultimately is  utilised  for	 allpublic purposes, whereas a cess levied by way of fee is	 notintended  to  be,  and	does  not  become,  a  part  of	 theconsolidated  fund.  It is earmarked and set apart  for	 thepurpose	 of  services  for which it is	levied.	  There	 is,however, an element of compulsion in the imposition of	bothtax  and  fee.	 When the Legislature decides  to  render  aspecific service to any area or to any class of persons,  itis not open to the said area or to the said class of personsto  plead  that they do not want the service  and  thereforethey  should  be  exempted from the  payment  of  the  cess.Though there is an element of quid pro quo between the	tax-payer  and  the public authority there is no option  to	 thetax-payer in the matter of receiving the service  determinedby  public authority.  In regard to fees there is, and	mustalways	be,  co-relation between the fee collected  and	 theservice	 intended  to be rendered.  Cases  may	arise  whereunder the guise of levying a fee Legislature may attempt  toimpose a tax; and in the case of such a colourable  exerciseof  legislative	 power courts would have to  scrutinise	 thescheme	of the levy very carefully and determine whether  infact  there  is a co-relation between the  service  and	 thelevy,  or  whether the levy is either  not  co-related	withservice or is levied to such an546excessive extent as to be a presence of a fee and not a	 feein  reality.   In other words, whether or not  a  particularcess  levied  by  a statute amounts to a fee  or  tax  wouldalways	be  a  question	 of fact to  be	 determined  in	 thecircumstances  of each case.  The distinction between a	 taxand  a fee is, however, important, and it is  recognised  bythe  Constitution.   Several  Entries in  the	Three  Listsempower	 the  appropriate Legislatures to  levy	 taxes;	 butapart from the power to levy taxes thus conferred each	Listspecifically refers to the power to levy fees in respect  ofany  of	 the matters covered in the said List  excluding  ofcourse the fees taken in any Court.The  question about the distinction between a tax and a	 feehas  been  considered by this Court in	three  decisions  in1954.	In  The Commissioner,  Hindu  Religious	 Endowments,Madras v. Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar of Sri Shirur Mutt(1)  the vires of the Madras Hindu Religious and  CharitableEndowments  Act, 1951 (Madras Act XIX of 195 1), came to  beexamined.   Amongst  the sections challenged was  s.  76(1).Under this section every religious institution had to pay tothe  Government annual contribution not exceeding 5% of	 itsincome	for  the  services  rendered  to  it  by  the	saidGovernment; and the argument was that the contribution	thusexacted	 was  not a fee but a tax and as  such	outside	 thecompetence  of the State Legislature.  In dealing with	thisargument Mukherjee, J., as he then was, cited the definitionof  tax given by Latham, C.J., in the case of Matthews	(2),and has elaborately considered the distinction between a taxand a fee.  The learned judge examined the scheme of the Actand  observed  that "the material fact which  negatives	 thetheory of fees in the present case is that the money  raisedby  the	 levy  of  the	contribution  is  not  earmarked  orspecified for defraying the expense that the Government	 hasto incur in performing the services.  All the collections goto  the consolidated fund of the State and all the  expenseshave  to be met not out of those collections but out of	 thegeneral	 revenues by a proper method of appropriation as  isdone in the(1) [1954] S.C.R. 1005.(2) (1938) 60 C.L.R. 263.547case  of other Government expenses".  The learned  judge  nodoubt  added that the said circumstance was  not  conclusiveand  pointed out that in fact there was	 a total absence  ofany  co-relation  between  the	expenses  incurred  by	 theGovernment  and the amount raised by contribution.  That  iswhy s. 76(1) was struck down as ultra vires.The  same  point arose before this Court in respect  of	 theOrissa	Hindu Religious Endowments Act, 1939, as amended  byamending Act 11 of 1952 in Mahant Sri Jagannath Ramanuj	 Dasv. The, State of Orissa (1).  Mukherjea, J., who again spokefor  the Court, upheld the validity of s. 49  which  imposedthe  liability	to pay the specified contribution  on  everyMutt or temple having an annual income exceeding Rs. 250 forservices  rendered by the State Government.  The  scheme  ofthe  impugned Act was examined and it was noticed  that	 thecollections  made  under it are not merged  in	the  generalpublic	revenue and are not appropriated in the manner	laiddown   for  appropriation  of  expenses	 for  other   publicpurposes.    They   go	to  constitute	a  fund	  which	  iscontemplated by s. 50 of the Act, and this fund to which theProvincial  Government contributes both by way of  loan	 andgrant  is  specifically	 set  apart  for  the  rendering  ofservices involved in carrying out the provisions of the Act.The same view was taken by this Court in regard to s. 58  ofthe  Bombay Public Trust Act, 1950 (Act XXIX of 1950)  whichimposed	 a  similar contribution for a	similar	 purpose  inRatilal	 Panachand  Gandhi v. The State of Bombay  (2).	  Itwould  thus be seen that the tests which have to be  appliedin determining the character of any impugned levy have	beenlaid down by this Court in these three decisions; and it  isin  the	 light of these tests that we have to  consider	 themerits	of  the rival contentions raised before	 us  in	 thepresent petition.On  behalf of the petitioners Mr. Amin has relied  on  threeother  decisions which may be briefly considered.  In P.  P.Kutti Keya v. The State of Madras (3), the Madras High Courtwas called upon to consider, inter(1) [1954] S.C.R. 1046.		(2) [1954] S.C.R. 1055.(3) A.I.R. 1954 Mad. 621.548alia,  the validity of s. 11 of the Madras Commercial  CropsMarkets	 Act  20 of 1933 and Rules 28(1)  and  28(3)  framedthereunder.   Section  11(1) levied a fee on  the  sales  ofcommercial crops within the notified area and s. 12 providedthat the amounts collected by the Market Committee shall  beconstituted  into a Market Fund which would be utilised	 foracquiring  a site for the market, constructing	a  building,maintaining  the  market  and meeting the  expenses  of	 theMarket	Committee.   The  argument  that  these	  provisionsamounted to services rendered to the notified area and	thusmade  the levy a fee and not a tax was not accepted  by	 theCourt.	Venkatarama Aiyar, J., took the view that the  fundsraised from the merchants for a construction of a market  insubstance amounted to an exaction of a tax.  Whether or	 notthe  construction of a market amounted to a service  to	 thenotified  area	it  is	unnecessary  for  us  to   consider.Besides,  as we have already pointed out we have  now  threedecisions  of  this Court which have  authoritatively  dealtwith  this  matter,  and  it is in the	light  of  the	saiddecisions that the present question has to be considered.In  Attorney-General for British Columbia v.  Esquimalt	 andNanaimo Railway Co. (1), the Privy Council had to deal	withthe  validity  of  forest protection impost  levied  by	 therelevant  section of the Forest Act R. S. B. C.	 1936.	 Thelands  in question were statutorily exempted from  taxation,and it was urged against the validity of the impost that thelevy of the said impost was not a service charge but a	tax;and since it contravened the exemption from taxation grantedto  the	 land it was invalid.  This plea was upheld  by	 thePrivy	Council.   The	Privy  Council	did   consider	 twocircumstances  which were relevant; the first that the	levywas  on a defined class of interested individuals,  and	 thesecond	that the fund raised did not fall into	the  generalmass  of the proceeds of taxation but was applicable  for  aspecial	 and  limited purpose.	It was conceded	 that  theseconsiderations	were relevant but the Privy Council  thoughtthat the weight to be attached to them should not be exagge-(1)  (1950) A.C. 87.540rated.	 In  appreciating the weight of	 the  said  relevantcircumstances  the Privy Council was impressed by  the	factthat  the lands in question formed an important part of	 thenational   wealth   of	the  Province	and   their   properadministration,	 including in particular protection  againstfire, is a matter of high public concern' as well as one  ofparticular  interest  to individuals.  In other	 words,	 theeffect	of the impugned provision was, that the expenses  ofwhat  was the public service of the greatest importance	 forthe Province as a whole had been divided between the generalbody of tax. payers and those individuals who had a  specialinterest in having their property protected.  It would	thusappear	that this decision proceeded on the basis that	whatwas claimed to be a special service to the lands in questionwas in reality an item in public service itself, and so	 theelement	 of quid pro quo was absent.  It is true  that	whenthe Legislature levies a fee for rendering specific servicesto  a specified area or to a specified class of	 persons  ortrade  or business, in the last analysis such  services	 mayindirectly  form part of services to the public in  general.If the special service rendered is distinctly and  primarilymeant for the benefit of a specified class or area the	factthat in benefiting the specified class or area the State  asa whole may ultimately and indirectly be benefited would notdetract	 from  the character of the levy as a  fee.   Where,however, the specific service is indistinguishable from pub-lic service, and in essence is directly a part of it, diffe-rent  considerations  may  arise.   In such  a	case  it  isnecessary to enquire what is the primary object of the	levyand  the essential purpose which it is intended to  achieve.Its  primary  object  and  the	essential  purpose  must  bedistinguished  from  its ultimate or incidental	 results  orconsequences.	That  is the true test	in  determining	 thecharacter of the levy.In Parton. v. Milk Board (Victoria)(1), the validity of	 thelevy imposed on dairymen and owners of milk depots by s.  30of the Milk Board Act of 1933 as amended by subsequent	Actsof 1936-1939 was(1)  (1949) 80 C.L.R. 229.70550challenged,  and it was held by Dixon, J., that the levy  ofthe  said contribution amounted to the imposition of a	dutyof  excise.   This decision was substantially based  on	 theground	that  the statutory board  "performs  no  particularservice	 for the dairyman or the owner of a milk  depot	 forwhich  his  contribution  may  be considered  as  a  fee  orrecompense"  that is to say the element of quid pro quo	 wasabsent	qua the persons on whom the levy had  been  imposed.Therefore none of the decisions on which Mr. Amin has reliedcan assist his case.Let  us now examine the scheme of the impugned Act.  As	 thepreamble  shows	 it has been passed because it	was  thoughtexpedient  to  constitute mining areas and  a  Mining  AreasDevelopment Fund in the State of Orissa.  It consists of  11sections.    Section   3  of  the  Act	provides   for	 theconstitution  of  a mining area whenever it appears  to	 theState  Government  that	 it is necessary  and  expedient  toprovide	 amenities  like  communications,  water-supply	 andelectricity  for the better development of any area  in	 theState of Orissa wherein any mine is situated, or to  providefor  the welfare of the residents or to workers in any	suchareas within which persons employed in a mine or a group  ofmines  reside  or  work.   Under  this	section	 the   StateGovernment  has	 to define the limits of the  area.  and  isgiven  the power to include within such area any local	areacontiguous  to	the same or to exclude from  such  area	 anylocal area comprised therein; that is the effect of s. 3(1).Section 3(2) empowers the owner or a lessee of a mine or hisduly  constituted  representative in the said area  to	fileobjections  in respect of any notification issued  under  s.3(1)  within the period specified, and the State  Governmentis  required to take the said objection into  consideration.After  considering objections received the State  Governmentis authorised to issue a notification constituting a  miningarea under s. 3(3).  Section 4 deals with the imposition andcollection  of cess.  The rate of the levy authorised  shallnot exceed 5 per centum of the valuation of the minerals  atthe pit's mouth.  Section 5 provides for the constitution ofthe Orissa Mining Areas Development551Fund.  This fund vests in the State Government and has to beadministered by such officer or officers as may be appointedby  the	 State	Government  in	that,  behalf  Section	5(2)requires that there shall be paid to the credit of the	saidfund the proceeds of the cess recovered under s. 4 for	eachmining area during the quarter after deducting expenses,  ifany, for collection and recovery.  Section 5(3) contemplatesthat  to  the credit of the said fund shall  be	 placed	 allcollections  of cess under s. 5(2) as well as  amounts	fromState  Government  and	the  local  authorities	 and  publicsubscriptions specifically given for any of the purposes  ofthe  fund.  Section 5(4) deals with the topic of the  appli-cation	of  the said fund.  The fund has to be	utilised  tomeet  expenditure incurred in connection with such  measureswhich  in the opinion of the State Government are  necessaryor  expedient for providing amenities  like  communications,water supply and electricity, for the better development  ofthe mining areas, and to meet the welfare of the labour	 andother  persons	residing  or working in	 the  mining  areas.Section	 5(5)  lays  down  that	 without  prejudice  to	 thegenerality  of	the  foregoing provisions the  fund  may  beutilised to defray any of the purposes specified in cls. (a)to  (e).   Under s. 5(6) the State Government is  given	 thepower to decide whether any particular expenditure is or  isnot debitable to the fund and their decision is made  final;and s. 5(7) imposes on the State Government an obligation topublish	 annually in the gazette a report of the  activitiesfinanced from the fund together with an estimate of receiptsand  expenditure  of the fund and a  statement	of  account.Section	 6 prescribes the mode of constituting	an  advisorycommittee.  It has to consist of such number of members	 andchosen in such manner as may be prescribed, provided howeverthat  each committee shall include representatives of  mine-owners	and workmen employed in mining industry.  The  namesof the members of the committee are required to be publishedin  the gazette.  Section 7 deals with the  appointment	 andfunctions  of  the statutory authorities to  carry  out	 thepurpose	 of  the  Act,	while s.  8  confers  on  the  StateGovernment power to552make rules.  Section 9 prescribes penalties and provides forprosecutions;  and s. 10 gives protection to  the  specifiedauthorities  or	 officers  in respect of  anything  done  orintended  to be done by them in good faith in  pursuance  ofthe Act or any rules or order made thereunder.	Section	 11,which  is the last section confers on the  State  Governmentthe  power  to do anything which may appear to	them  to  benecessary  for	'the  purpose of  removing  difficulties  ingiving effect to the provisions of the Act.The  scheme of the Act thus clearly shows that it  has	beenpassed for the purpose of the development of mining areas inthe  State.  The basis for the operation of the Act  is	 theconstitution of a mining area, and it is in regard to miningareas  thus constituted that the provisions of the Act	comeinto play.  It is not difficult to appreciate the  intentionof  the State Legislature evidenced by this Act.  Orissa  isan underdeveloped State in the Union of India though it	 hasa  lot	of  mineral wealth of great  potential	value.	 Un-fortunately its mineral wealth is located generally in areassparsely populated with bad communications.  Inevitably	 theexploitation  of  the  minerals is handicapped	by  lack  ofcommunications,	 and the difficulty experienced	 in  keepingthe  labour  force  sufficiently healthy  and  in  congenialsurroundings.	 The  mineral  development  of	the   State,therefore,  requires  that  provision  should  be  made	 forimproving the communications by constructing good roads	 andby providing means of transport such as tramways; supply  ofwater  and  electricity would also help.  It would  also  benecessary  to  provide	for  amenities	of  sanitation	 andeducation to the labour force in order to attract workmen tothe  area.   Before the Act was passed it appears  that	 themine-owners tried to put up small-length roads and  tramwaysfor  their own individual purpose, but that obviously  couldnot  be as effective as roads constructed by the  State	 andtramway	 service provided by it.  It- is on a  considerationof these factors that the State Legislature decided to	takean  active part in unsystematic development of	its  mineralareas which would help the mine-owners in moving their553minerals  quickly  through  the	 shortest  route  and  wouldattract	 labour	 to assist the excavation of  the  minerals.Thus  there  can  be  no doubt	that  the  primary  and	 theprincipal object of the Act is to develop' the mineral areasin  the	 State	and to assist more  efficient  and  extendedexploitation of its mineral wealth.The constitution of the advisory committee as prescribed  bys. 4 emphasises the fact that the policy of the Act would beto  carry  out with the assistance of  the  mine-owners	 andtheir  workmen.	  Thus after a mining area  is	notified  anadvisory committee is constituted in respect of it, and	 thetask  of carrying out the objects of the Act is left to	 thecare   of  the	said  advisory	committee  subject  to	 theprovisions of the Act.	Even before an area is notified	 themine-owners are allowed an opportunity to put forward  theirobjections.  These features of the Act are also relevant  indetermining  the question as to whether the Act is  intendedto render service to the specified area and to the class  ofpersons who are subjected to the levy of the cess.Section 5 shows that the cess levied does not become a	partof   the  consolidated	fund  and  is  not  subject  to	  anappropriation in that behalf; it goes into the special	fundearmarked for carrying out the purpose of the Act, and	thusits existence establishes a correlation between the cess andthe  purpose for which it is levied.  It was  probably	feltthat some additions should be made to the special fund,	 andso   s.	 5(3)  contemplates  that  grants  from	 the   StateGovernment  and local authorities and  public  subscriptionsmay be collected for enriching the said fund.  Every year  areport	of  the activities financed by the fund	 has  to  bepublished   together  with  an	estimate  of   receipt	 andexpenditure  and a statement of accounts.  It would thus  beclear  that the administration of the fund would be  subjectto  public scrutiny and persons who are called upon  to	 paythe  levy would have an opportunity to see whether the	cesscollected  from	 them  has been properly  utilised  for	 thepurposes  for  which it is intended to be used.	 It  is	 notalleged by the petitioners554that the levy imposed is unduly or unreasonably excessive soas   to	 make  the  imposition	a  colourable  exercise	  oflegislative  power.  Indeed the fact that the accounts	haveto  be published from year to year affords an indication  tothe  contrary.	 Thus the scheme of the Act shows  that	 thecess is levied against the class of persons owning mines  inthe  notified  area  and it is levied to  enable  the  StateGovernment to render specific services to the said class  bydeveloping  the notified mineral area.	There is an  elementof  quid  pro  quo  in the scheme,  the	 cess  collected  isconstituted  into  a specific fund and it has not  become  apart of the consolidated fund, its application is  regulatedby a statute and is confined to its purposes, and there is adefinite  co-relation between the impost and the purpose  ofthe  Act  which is to render service to the  notified  area.These  features	 of  the  Act  impress	upon  the  levy	 thecharacter of a fee as distinct from a tax.It is, however, urged that the cess levied by s. 4(2) is  insubstance and reality a duty of excise.	 As we have  alreadynoticed	 s. 4(2) provides that the rate of such	 levy  shallnot exceed 5 per centum of the valuation of the minerals  atthe  pit's  mouth;  in other words it is the  value  of	 theminerals  produced  which is the basis for  calculating	 thecess  payable  by  mine-owners, and that  precisely  is	 thenature	in which duty of excise is levied under Entry 84  inList I. The said Entry empowers Parliament to impose  dutiesof excise, inter alia, on goods manufactured or produced  inIndia.	When minerals are produced from mines and a duty  ofexcise	is  intended  to  be imposed on	 them  it  would  benormally  imposed at the pit's mouth, and that is  preciselywhat the impugned Act purports to do.  It is also  contendedthat  the  rate	 prescribed by s.  4(2)	 indicates  that  itoperates  not as a mere fee but as a duty of  excise.	Thisargument must be carefully examined before the character  ofthe  cess  is finally determined.  It is not  disputed	thatunder  Entry  23 in List II read with Entry 66 in  the	saidList  the  State Legislature can levy a fee  in	 respect  ofmines and mineral development.	Entry 23 reads thus:  "Regu-lation of Mines and mineral development subject to			    555the  provisions	 of List I with respect	 to  regulation	 anddevelopment  under the control of the Union".  We will	dealwith the condition imposed by the latter part of this  Entrylater.	 For  the  present  it	is  enough  to	state	thatregulation  of mines and mineral development is	 within	 thecompetence of the State Legislature.  Entry 66 provides thatfees  in respect of any of the matters in the said List	 canbe imposed by the State Legislature subject of course to theexception of fees taken in any Court.  The argument is	thatthough	the State Legislature is competent to levy a fee  inrespect	 of  mines and mineral development, if	the  statutepassed	by  a State Legislature in substance and  in  effectimposes	 a  duty  of excise it	is  travelling	outside	 itsjurisdiction and is trespassing on the legislative powers ofParliament.This  argument	is based on two considerations.	  The  firstrelates	 to the form in which the levy is imposed,  and	 thesecond	relates to the extent of the levy  authorised.	 Theextent	of the levy authorised would always depend upon	 thenature	of  the	 services intended to be  rendered  and	 thefinancial  obligations	incurred thereby.  If  the  servicesintended  to  be  rendered to  the  notified  mineral  areasrequire that a fairly large cess should be collected and co-relation can be definitely established between the  proposedservices   and	 the  impost  levied,  then  it	  would	  beunreasonable to suggest that because the rate of the levy ishigh  it is not a fee but a duty of excise.  In the  presentcase,  if the development of the mining areas involves	con-siderable  expenditure	which necessitates the levy  of	 theprescribed  rate  it  only means  that	the  services  beingrendered to the mining areas are very valuable and the rate-payer  in  substance  is  compensating	the  State  for	 theservices rendered by it to him.	 It is significant that	 thepetitioners  do	 not  seriously suggest	 that  the  servicesintended to be rendered are a cloak and not genuine, or thatthe  taxes levied have no relation to the said services,  orthat they are unreasonable and excessive.  Therefore, in ouropinion, the extent of the rate allowed to be imposed by  s.4(2) cannot by itself alter the character of the levy from a556fee  into  that	 of a duty of excise.	If  the	 co-relationbetween the levy and the services was not genuine or   real,or  if	the  levy was  disproportionately  higher  than	 therequirements  of  the services intended to  be	rendered  itwould have been another matter.Then  as  to the form in which the impost is levied,  it  isdifficult  to  appreciate  how the method  adopted   by	 theLegislature   in  recovering  the  impost  can	 alter	 itscharacter.  The character of the levy must be determined  inthe  light of the tests to which we have  already  referred.The  method  in which the fee is recovered is  a  matter  ofconvenience,  and by itself it cannot fix upon the levy	 thecharacter  of the duty of excise.  This question  has  oftenbeen  considered  in the past, and it has always  been	heldthat  though the method in which an impost is levied may  berelevant  in determining its character its significance	 andeffect cannot be exaggerated.  In Balla Ram v. The  Provinceof  East  Punjab (1) the Federal Court had to  consider	 thecharacter  of  the tax levied by s. 3 of  the  Punjab  UrbanImmoveable  Property  'tax  Act XVII  of  1940.	  Section  3provided  as  follows: "There shall be charged,	 levied	 andpaid an annual to tax on buildings and lands situated in therating areas shown in the schedule to this Act at such	ratenot exceeding twenty per centum of the annual value of	suchbuildings  and	lands as the Provincial	 Government  may  bynotification  in official gazette direct in respect of	eachsuch  rating area".  The argument urged before	the  FederalCourt  was that the tax imposed by the said section  was  inreality	 a  tax on income within the meaning of Item  54  inList  I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution  Act  of1935,  and as such it was not covered by Item 42 in List  IIof  the	 said Schedule.	 This argument was rejected  on	 theground	that  the  tax levied by the Act  was  in  pith	 andsubstance  a tax on lands and buildings covered by Item	 42.It would be noticed that the basis of the tax was the annualvalue of the building which is the basis used in the  IndianIncome-tax Act for determining income from property; and so,the attack against the section was based on(1)  (1948) F.C.R. 207.			    557the  ground that it had adopted the same basis	for  leavingthe  impost  as	 the  Income-tax  Act  and  the	 said  basisdetermined  its character whatever may be the appearance  inwhich  the impost was purported to be levied.  In  repellingthis  argument	Fazl  Ali,  J.	observed  that	the  crucialquestion  to  be  answered was whether	merely	because	 theIncome-tax Act has adopted the annual value as the  standardfor  determining the income it must necessarily follow	thatif the same standard is employed as a measure for any  othertax  that  tax becomes a tax on income.	 The  learned  judgethen proceeded to add that if the answer to this question isto  be	given in the affirmative then  certain	taxes  whichcannot	possibly be described as income-tax must be held  tobe so.	In other words, the effect of this decision is	thatthe  adoption  of the standard used in	Income-tax  Act	 forgetting	 at the income by any other act for levying the	 taxauthorised  by it would not be enough to convert  the  said.tax into an income-tax.	 During the course of this  judgmentFazl Ali, J. also noticed with approval a similar view takenby  the Bombay High Court in Sir Byramjee Jeejeebhoy v.	 TheProvince of Bombay (1).This  decision	has  been expressly approved  by  the  PrivyCouncil in Governor-General in Council v. Province of Madras(2).   Consistently with the decision of the  Federal  Courttheir Lordships expressed the opinion that "a duty of exciseis primarily a duty levied on a manufacturer or producer  inrespect of the commodity manufactured or produced.  It is  atax on goods and not on sales or the proceeds of the sale ofgoods.	The two taxes, the one levied on the manufacturer inrespect of his goods and the other on the vendor in  respectof  his sales may in one sense overlap, but in law there  isno overlapping; the taxes are separate and distinct imposts.If  in,	 fact they overlap that may be	because	 the  taxingauthority  imposing a duty of excise finds it convenient  toimpose that duty at the moment when the excisable article(1)  I.L.R. 1940 Bom. 58.(2)  (1945) L.R. 72 I.A. 91.71558leaves	the  factory or workshop for the first time  on	 theoccasion  of  its  sale".  In that  case  the  question	 waswhether	 the tax authorised by the Madras General Sales	 TaxAct,  1939, was a tax on the sale of goods or was a duty  ofexcise, and the Privy Council held it was the former and notthe  latter.  Therefore, in our opinion, the mere fact	thatthe levy imposed by the impugned Act has adopted the  methodof  determining	 the rate of the levy by  reference  to	 theminerals produced by the mines would not by itself make	 thelevy  a	 duty  of excise.  The method thus  adopted  may  berelevant in considering the character of the impost but	 itseffect	must be weighed along with and in the light  of	 theother  relevant	 circumstances.	 In this  connection  it  isalways	necessary  to bear in mind that	 where	an  impugnedstatute	 passed	 by a State Legislature is relatable  to  anEntry  in  List II it is not permissible  to  challenge	 itsvires  only on the ground that the method adopted by it	 forthe  recovery of the impost can be and is generally  adoptedin levying a duty of excise.  Thus considered the conclusionis  inevitable that the cess levied by the impugned  Act  isneither a tax nor a duty of excise but is a fee.The next question which arises is, even if the cess is a feeand as such may be relatable to Entries 23 and 66 in List IIits  validity  is  still  open	to  challenge  because	 thelegislative competence of the State Legislature under  Entry23  is subject to the provisions of List I with	 respect  toregulation  and development under the control of the  Union;and  that takes us to Entry 54 in List I. This	Entry  readsthus:  "Regulation of mines and mineral development  to	 theextent	to which such regulation and development  under	 thecontrol of the Union is declared by Parliament by law to  beexpedient-in  the public interest".  The effect	 of  readingthe two Entries together is clear.  The jurisdiction of	 theState	Legislature  under  Entry  23  is  subject  to	 thelimitation imposed by the latter part of the said Entry.  IfParliament  by	its  law has declared  that  regulation	 anddevelopment of mines should in public interest be under	 thecontrol of the Union, to559the extent of such declaration the jurisdiction of the StateLegislature  is excluded.  In other words, if a Central	 Acthas  been passed which contains a declaration by  Parliamentas required by Entry 54, and if the said declaration  coversthe  field  occupied by the impugned Act  the  impugned	 Actwould be ultra vires, not because of any repugnance  betweenthe  two statutes but because the State Legislature  had  nojurisdiction to pass the law.  The limitation imposed by thelatter	part of Entry 23 is a limitation on the	 legislativecompetence of (,he State Legislature itself.  This  positionis not in dispute.It  is	urged  by Mr. Amin that the  field  covered  by	 theimpugned  Act  has  already been covered by  the  Mines	 andMinerals  (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948,  (LIII  of1948)  and he contends that in view of the declaration	madeby  s. 2 of this Act the impugned Act is ultra vires.	ThisCentral	 Act  was passed to provide for	 the  regulation  ofmines  and oil fields and for the development  of  minerals.It  may	 be stated at this stage that by Act LXVII  of	1957which  has been subsequently passed by Parliament, Act	LIIIof  1948 has now been limited only to oil fields.   We	are,however,  concerned  with the operation of the said  Act  in1952,  and at that time it applied to mines as well  as	 oilfields.	  Section 2 of the Act contains a declaration as  tothe  expediency and control by the Central  Government.	  Itreads  thus: "It is hereby declared that it is expedient  inthe public interest that the Central Government should	takeunder its control the regulation of mines and oil fields andthe  development  of  minerals	to  the	 extent	 hereinafterprovided".   It is common ground that at the  relevant	timethis  Act  applied  to coal mines.  Section  4	of  the	 Actprovides  that	no mining lease shall be granted  after	 thecommencement  of this Act otherwise than in accordance	withthe  rules  made  under this Act.  Section  5  empowers	 theCentral	 Government  to	 make  rules  by  notification	 forregulating the grant of mining leases or for prohibiting thegrant  of  such leases in respect of any mineral or  in	 anyarea.  Sections 4 and 5 thus560purport to prescribe necessary conditions in accordance withwhich  mining leases have to be executed.  This part of	 theAct  has no relevance to our present purpose.  Section 6  ofthe  Act, however, empowers the Central Government  to	makerules  by  notification	 in the	 official  gazette  for	 theconservation and development of minerals.  Section 6(2) laysdown several matters in respect of which rules can be framedby the Central Government.  This power is, however,  withoutprejudice  to  the  generality of powers  conferred  on	 theCentral Government by s. 6(1).	Amongst the matters  coveredby s. 6(2) is the levy and collection of royalties, fees  ortaxes  in respect of minerals mined, quarried, excavated  orcollected.   It	 is  true that no rules have  in  fact	beenframed	by the Central Government in regard to the levy	 andcollection of any fees; but, in our opinion, that would	 notmake  any difference.  If it is held that this Act  containsthe  declaration referred to in Entry 23 there would  be  nodifficulty in holding that the declaration covers the  fieldof  conservation and development of minerals, and  the	saidfield  is  indistinguishable from the field covered  by	 theimpugned   Act.	  What	Entry  23  provides  is	  that	 thelegislative  competence of the State Legislature is  subjectto  the provisions of List I with respect to regulation	 anddevelopment under the control of the Union, and Entry 54  inList  I	 requires a declaration by Parliament  by  law	thatregulation  and	 development of mines should  be  under	 thecontrol	 of the Union in public interest.  Therefore,  if  aCentral Act has been passed for the purpose of providing forthe  conservation  and development of minerals,	 and  if  itcontains  the  requisite declaration, then it would  not  becompetent to the State Legislature to pass an Act in respectof  the subject-matter covered by the said declaration.	  Inorder  that  the declaration should be effective it  is	 notnecessary  that rules should be made or enforced;  all	thatthis  required	is a declaration by Parliament	that  it  isexpedient in the public interest to take the regulation	 anddevelopment  of	 mines under the control of the	 Union.	  Insuch  a	 case  the  test must  be  whether  the	 legislativedeclaration covers the field561or not.	 Judged by this test there can be no doubt that	 thefield covered by the impugned Act is covered by the  CentralAct LIII of 1948.It  still remains to consider whether s. 2 of the  said	 Actamounts in law to a declaration by Parliament as required byArt.  54.   When  the  said  Act  was  passed  in  1948	 thelegislative  powers  of	 the  Central  and  the	  ProvincialLegislatures  were governed by the relevant Entries  in	 theSeventh Schedule to the Constitution Act of 1935.  Entry  36in List I corresponds to the present Entry 54 in List I.  Itreads thus: "Regulation of Mines and Oil Fields and  mineraldevelopment  to	 the  extent to which  such  regulation	 anddevelopment  under Dominion control is declared by  Dominionlaw to be expedient in public interest".  It would be notic-ed   that  the	declaration  required  by  Entry  36  is   adeclaration by Dominion law.  Reverting then to s. 2 of	 thesaid  Act it is clear that the declaration contained in	 thesaid section is put in the passive voice; but in the contextthere  would  be  no difficulty in  holding  that  the	saiddeclaration  by	 necessary  implication	 has  been  made  byDominion  law.	It is a declaration contained in  a  sectionpassed	by  the Dominion Legislature' and so it	 is  obviousthat it is a declaration by a Dominion law; but the questionis:  Can  this	declaration by a Dominion  law	be  regardedconstitutionally  as  declaration  by  Parliament  which  isrequired by Entry 54 in List I.It  has	 been  urged before us	by  the	 learned  AdditionalSolicitor-General  and	Mr. Amin that in dealing  with	thisquestion we should bear in mind two general  considerations.The Central Act has been continued under Art. 372(1) of	 theConstitution as an existing law, and the effect of the	saidconstitutional provision must be that the continuance of theexisting  law would be as effective and to the	same  extentafter  the  Constitution came into force as before.   It  isurged that after the said Act was passed and before the Con-stitution  came into force no Provincial  Legislature  couldhave  validly made a law in respect of the field covered  bythe said Act, and it would be commonsense to assume that theeffect of the continuance of the562said  law  under Art. 372(1) cannot be	any  different.	  Inother  words,  if  no  Provincial  Legislature	could	havetrespassed  on the field covered by the said Act before	 theConstitution,  the position would and must be the same	evenafter the Constitution came into force.It  is also contended that for the purpose of  bringing	 theprovision  of existing laws into accord with the  provisionsof the Constitution the President was given power to make byorder  appropriate  adaptations and  modifications  of	suchlaws,  and the object of making such  adaptations  obviouslywas  to	 make  the continuance of the  existing	 laws  fullyeffective.   It	 is  in	 the  light  of	 these	two  generalconsiderations,	 so  the. argument runs, must the  point  inquestion   be  considered.  The	 relevant  clause   in	 theAdaptation  of Laws Order, 1950, on which reliance has	beenplaced	in  support  of	 this argument	is  el.	 16  in	 theSupplementary Part of the said Order.  This clause  providesthat  subject to the provisions of this Order any  referenceby  whatever  form  of	words in any  existing	law  to	 anyauthority  competent at the date of the passing of that	 lawto  exercise any powers or authorities, or to discharge	 anyfunctions, in any part of India shall, where a correspondingnew   authority	 has  been  constituted	 by  or	 under	 theConstitution, have effect until duly repealed or amended  asif  it	were  a	 reference  to	that  new  authority.	 Thepetitioners  contend  that as a result of  this	 clause	 thedeclaration made by the Dominion Legislature in s. 2 of	 theCentral	 Act must now be held to be the declaration made  byParliament.   Is  this contention justified on	a  fair	 andreasonable construction of the clause?	That is the crux  ofthe problem.In considering this question it would be relevant to  recallthe  scheme  of	 the Adaptation of  Laws  Order,  1950.	  Itconsists  of Three Parts.  Part 1 deals with the  adaptationof  Central Laws and indicates the adaptation made  therein;Part  11  deals with the adaptation of Provincial  Laws	 andfollows	 the same pattern; and Part III is  a  SupplementaryPart   which   contains	  provisions  in   the	 nature	  ofsupplementary	provisions.   A	 perusal  of   the   clausescontained in Part			    563I  would  show that though some adaptation was made  in	 ActLIII  of  1948	it  was not thought  necessary	to  make  anadaptation in s. 2 of the said Act whereby  the	 declarationimplied in the said section has been expressly adapted	intoa declaration by Parliament.Now,  the  effect  of el. 16 in substance is  to  equate  anauthority  competent  at  the date of  the  passing  of	 theexisting  law to exercise any powers or authorities,  or  todischarge  any functions with a corresponding new  authoritywhich  has  been constituted by or under  the  Constitution.Reference  to the authority in the con. text  would  suggestcases  like reference to the Governor-General eo nomine,  orCentral Government which respectively would be equated	withthe  President	or the Union Government.   Prima  facie	 thereference  to  authority would not include  reference  to  aLegislature; in this connection it may be relevant to  pointout  that Art. 372(1) refers to a competent  Legislature  asdistinguished from other competent authorities.	 That is thefirst  difficulty  in  holding that el.	 16  refers  to	 theDominion  Legislature  and purports to equate  it  with	 theParliament.It  is clear that for the application of this clause  it  isnecessary  that	 a reference should have been  made  to	 theauthority  by  some words whatever may be  their  form.	  Inother  words  it  is  only where  the  existing	 law  refersexpressly to some authority that this clause can be invoked.It is difficult to construe the first part of this clause toinclude	 authorities  to which no reference is made  by	 anywords in terms, but to which such reference may be  implied;and quite clearly the Dominion Legislature is not  expresslyreferred  to  in s. 2. In construing the present  clause  wethink  it would be straining the language of the  clause  tohold  that  an authority to which no reference	is  made  bywords  in  any	part of the existing  law  could  claim	 thebenefit of this clause.Besides,  there is no doubt that when the clause  refers  toany   authority	  competent  to	 exercise  any	 powers	  orauthorities, or to discharge any functions, it refers to thepowers,	  authorities  or  functions  attributable  to	 theexisting law itself; that is to say, authorities564which  are  competent  to exercise powers  or  to  dischargefunctions under the existing laws are intended to be equatedwith  corresponding  new authorities.  It is  impossible  tohold that the Dominion Legislature is an authority which wascompetent to exercise any power or to discharge any functionunder  the  existing law.  Competence to exercise  power  todischarge   functions  to  which  the  clause  refers	mustinevitably  be	related to the existing law and not  to	 theConstitution  Act  of  1935  which  would  be  necessary  ifDominion  Legislature  was to be included  as  an  authorityunder  this clause.  The Constitution Act of 1935  had	beenrepealed  by the Constitution and it was not, and could	 notobviously be, the object of the Adaptation of Laws Order  tomake  any adaptation in regard to the said Act.	  Therefore,the competence of the Dominion Legislature which flowed fromthe  relevant provisions of the Constitution Act of 1935  iswholly	outside this clause.  We have  carefully  consideredthe  arguments	urged before us by  the	 learned  AdditionalSolicitor-General  and	Mr. Amin but we are unable  to	holdthat  cl. 16 can be pressed into service for the purpose  ofsupporting  the	 conclusion  that  the	declaration  by	 theDominion  Legislature  implied in s. 2 of Act LIII  of	1948can,  by  virtue of cl. 16, be held to be a  declaration  byParliament within the meaning of the relevant Entries in theConstitution.	If  that  be  the  true	 position  then	 thealternative  challenge to the vires of the Act based on	 el.16 of the Adaptation of Laws Order must fail.There  is  another possible argument which may	prima  facielead to the same conclusion.  Let us assume that the  resultof  reading  Art. 372 and cl. 16 of the Adaptation  of	LawsOrder  is  that under s. 2 of Act LIII of 1948	there  is  adeclaration  by Parliament as suggested by  the	 petitionersand  the learned Additional Solicitor-General.	 Would	thatmeet  the requirements of Entry 54 in List I of the  SeventhSchedule?   It is difficult to answer this question  in	 theaffirmative   because	the  relevant  provisions   of	 theConstitution   are  prospective	 and  the   declaration	  byParliament specified by Entry 54 must be declaration made by565Parliament subsequent to the date when the Constitution cameinto  force.   Unless a declaration is	made  by  Parliamentafter  the Constitution came into force it will not  satisfythe requirements of Entry 54, and that inevitably would meanthat  the impugned Act is validly enacted under Entry 23  inList  II  of  the Seventh Schedule.  If	 that  be  the	trueposition  then it would follow that even on  the  assumptionthat el. 16 of the Adaptation of Laws Order and Art. 372 canbe  construed as suggested by the petitioners  the  impugnedAct would be valid.Faced  with  this difficulty, both  the	 learned  AdditionalSolicitor-General  and	Mr. Amin argued that cl. 21  of	 thesaid Order may be of some assistance.  Clause 21 reads thus:"Any Court, Tribunal, or authority required or empowered  toenforce	 any  law  in  force  in  the  territory  of   Indiaimmediately before the appointed day shall,  notwithstandingthat this Order makes no provision or insufficient provisionfor the adaptation of the law for the purpose of bringing itinto  accord  with  the	 provisions  of	 the   Constitution,construe the law with all such adaptations as are  necessaryfor  the said purpose".	 Assuming that this clause is  validwe  do not see how it is relevant in the present case.	 Allthat  this clause purports to do is to empower the Court  toconstrue  the law with such adaptations as may be  necessaryfor the purpose of bringing it in accord with the provisionsof  the	 Constitution.	 There is no occasion  to  make	 anyadaptation  in construing Act LIII of 1948 for	bringing  itinto accord with the provisions of the Constitution at	all.The said Act has been continued under Art. 372(1) and  thereis  no	constitutional	defect	in  the	 said  Act  for	 theavoidance  of  which any adaptation is necessary.   In	factwhat  the petitioners seek to do is to read in s. 2  of	 thesaid Act the declaration by Parliament required by Entry  54so  as to make the impugned Act ultra vires.  Quite  clearlycl.  21 cannot be pressed into service for such	 a  purpose.Therefore, we reach this position that the field covered  byAct  LIII  of 1948 is substantially the same  as  the  fieldcovered by the72566impugned  Act but the declaration made by s. 2 of  the	saidAct  does  not	constitutionally  amount  to  the  requisitedeclaration by Parliament, and so the limitation imposed  byEntry  54 does not come into operation in the present  case.Act LIII of 1948 continues in operation under Art. 372; withthis  modification  that so far as the State  of  Orissa  isconcerned  it is the impugned Act that governs and  not	 theCentral	 Act.	Article	 372(1) in  fact  provides  for	 thecontinuance  of	 the  existing	law  until  it	is  altered,repealed  or  amended by a competent  Legislature  or  othercompetent  authority.	In  the	 absence  of  the  requisiteparliamentary declaration the legislative competence of	 theOrissa Legislature under Entry 23 read with Entry 66 is	 notimpaired, and so the said Legislature is competent either torepeal, alter or amend the existing law which is the CentralAct  LIII  of 1948; in effect, after the  impugned  Act	 waspassed,	 so far as Orissa is concerned the Central Act	mustbe deemed to be repealed.  This position is fully consistentwith  the  provisions of Art. 372.  The result is  that	 thematerial words used in cls. 16 and 21 being unambiguous	 andexplicit, it is difficult to give effect to the two  generalconsiderations	on  which reliance has been  placed  by	 thepetitioners.   Incidentally the present case discloses	thatin   regard  to	 the  requisite	 parliamentary	 declarationprescribed  by Entry 54 in List I in its application to	 thepre-Constitution Acts under corresponding Entry 36 in List Iof the Constitution Act of 1935, there is a lacuna which hasnot  been covered by any clauses of the Adaptation  of	LawsOrder;	that,  however,	 is  a	matter	for  Parliament	  toconsider.There  is one more point which is yet to be considered.	 Mr.Amin  contends	that Entry 23 in List II is subject  to	 theprovisions  in	List  I	 with  respect	to  regulation	 anddevelopment under the control of the Union, and according tohim  Entry 52 in List I is one of such provisions.  In	thisconnection  he	relies on the said Entry  which	 deals	withindustries the control of which by the Union is declared  byParliament  by law to be expedient in the  public  interest,and Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (LXV567of  1951).   This  Act has been passed to  provide  for	 thedevelopment  and  regulation of certain	 industries  one  ofwhich  undoubtedly  is coal mining industry.  Section  2  ofthis  Act  declares  that  it is  expedient  in	 the  publicinterest  that the Union should take under its	control	 theindustries   specified	 in  the   First   Schedule.	Thisdeclaration is a declaration made by Parliament, and if	 theprovisions of the Act read with the said declaration coveredthe  same field as is covered by the impugned Act, it  wouldundoubtedly  affect  the vires of the impugned Act;  but  indealing	 with this question it is important to bear in	mindthe doctrine of pith and substance.  We have already noticedthat  in  pith and substance the impugned Act  is  concernedwith the development of the mining areas notified under	 it.The Central Act, on the other hand, deals more directly withthe  control  of  all industries  including  of	 course	 theindustry  of coal.  Chapter II of this Act provides for	 theconstitution of the Central Advisory Council and DevelopmentCouncils, chapter III deals with the regulation of scheduledindustries, chapter IIIA provides for the direct  managementor control of industrial undertakings by Central  Governmentin  certain  cases, and chapter IIIB is concerned  with	 thetopic  of  control of supply, distribution, price,  etc,  ofcertain articles.  The last chapter deals with miscellaneousincidental  matters.   The  functions  of  the	 DevelopmentCouncils  constituted under this Act prescribed by  s.	6(4)bring out the real purpose and object of the Act.  It is  toincrease  the  efficiency or productivity in  the  scheduledindustry  or  group of scheduled industries, to	 improve  ordevelop	  the  service	that  such  industry  or  group	  ofindustries  renders or could render to the community, or  toenable	such industry or group of industries to render	suchservice	  more	economically.	Section	 9  authorises	 theimposition of cess on scheduled industries in certain cases.Section	 9(4) provides that the Central Government may	handover  the  proceeds of the cess to the	Development  Councilthere  specified  and  that the	 Development  Council  shallutilise	 the said proceeds to achieve the objects  mentionedin cls. (a) to (d).  These568objects	 include the promotion of scientific and  industrialresearch,  of  improvements in design and quality,  and	 theprovision for the training of technicians and labour in suchindustry or group of industries.  It would thus be seen thatthe  object  of	 the  Act  is  to  regulate  the   scheduledindustries with a view to improvement and development of theservice that they may render to the society, and thus assistthe solution of the larger problem of national economy.	  Itis  difficult  to  hold	 that  the  field  covered  by	 thedeclaration  made  by s. 2 of this Act,	 considered  in	 thelight  of its several provisions, is the same as  the  fieldcovered	 by the impugned Act.  That being so, it  cannot  besaid that as a result of Entry 52 read with Act LXV of	1951the   vires  of	 the  impugned	Act  can   be	successfullychallenged.Our  conclusion,  therefore,  is that the  impugned  Act  isrelatable  to  Entries 23 and 66 in List II of	the  SeventhSchedule,  and its validity is not impaired or	affected  byEntries	 52 and 54 in List I read with Act LXV of  1951	 andAct  LIII of 1948 respectively.	 In view of this  conclusionit  is unnecessary to consider whether the impugned Act	 canbe  justified  under Entry 50 in List II, or whether  it  isrelatable  to Entry 24 in List III and as such suffexs	fromthe vice of repugnancy with the Central Act XXXII of 1947.The  result  is	 the petition fails and	 is  dismissed	withcosts.WANCHOO,  J.-I have read the judgment just delivered  by  mylearned brother Gajendragadkar J. and regret that I have notbeen  able to persuade myself that the cess levied  in	thiscase  on all extracted minerals from any mine in any  miningarea at a rate not exceeding five per centum of the value ofthe  minerals  at  the	pit's  mouth  by  the  Orissa  StateLegislature   under  s.	 4  of	the  Orissa   Mining   AreasDevelopment Fund Act, No. XXVII of 1952, (hereinafter calledthe  Act) is a fee properly so called and not a duty of	 ex-cise.	The  facts  are all set out  in	 the  judgment	justdelivered and I need not repeat them.The  scheme of the Act, as appears from s. 3 thereof  is  togive power to the State Government, whenever it569thinks it necessary and expedient to provide amenities, likecommunications, water-supply and electricity for the  betterdevelopment of any area in the State where-, in any mine  issituated  or  to  provide for the welfare  of  residents  orworkers in any such area within. which persons employed in amine or a group of mines reside or work, to constitute	suchan area to be a mining area for the purposes of the Act,  todefine	the limits of the area, to include within such	areaany  local  area contiguous to the same and defined  in	 thenotification  and to exclude from such area any	 local	areacomprised  therein  and	 defined  in  the  notification.   Anotification  under s. 3 is made, after	 hearing  objectionsfrom owners or lessees of mines.  After such an area is con-stituted  under	 s. 3, a cess is imposed under s. 4  on	 allextracted  minerals  from any mine in any such area  at	 therate  not  exceeding  five per centum of the  value  of	 theminerals  at  the  pit's mouth.	 The cess  so  collected  iscredited to a fund called the Orissa Mining Area DevelopmentFund  created under s. 5 of the Act, besides  other  amountswith  which we are not concerned in this case.	The Fund  isto  be	applied to meet expenditure incurred  in  connectionwith  such  measures,  which in the  opinion  of  the  StateGovernment,   are  necessary  or  expedient  for   providingamenities like communications, water-supply and electricity,for  the better development of mining areas and to meet	 thewelfare	 of labour and other persons residing or working  inthe  mining areas.  Then come other provisions	for  workingout  the above provisions including s. 8, which gives  powerto the State Government to frame rules to carry. into effectthe  purposes of the Act.  The Rules were framed  under	 theAct in January, 1955.The   constitutional   competence  of	the   Orissa   StateLegislature  to levy the cess under the Act is	attacked  ontwo main grounds.  In the first place, it is urged that	 thecess is in pith and substance a duty of excise under item 84of List I of the Seventh Schedule and therefore the levy  ofsuch  a	 cess is beyond the competence of the  Orissa  StateLegislature.  In the second place, it is urged that even  ifthe cess is a fee, in view570of  the two Acts of the Central Legislature and	 Parliament,namely, The Mines and Minerals (Regulation and	Development)Act,  No. LIII of 1948 and The Industries  (Development	 andRegulation) Act, No. LXV of 1951, the Orissa Legislature wasnot competent to pass the Act.The  petition  has been opposed on behalf of  the  State  ofOrissa and the main contentions urged on its behalf are thatthe  cess  is  a fee properly so called and not	 a  duty  ofexcise	and  therefore	the  Orissa  State  Legislature	 wascompetent to levy it and the two Central Acts do not  affectthat competence.  In the alternative it has been urged	thateven  if  the  cess  is a  tax	the  State  Legislature	 wascompetent to levy it under item 50 of List If of the SeventhSchedule.The first question therefore that falls for consideration iswhether	 the  cess  in	this'  ease  is	 a  tax	 or  a	fee.Difference  between  a	tax properly so	 called	 and  a	 feeproperly  so  called came up for consideration	before	thisCourt  in three cases in 1954 and was considered at  length.In  the	 first	of them,  namely,  The	Commissioner,  HinduReligious  Endowments,	Madras v.  Sri	Lakshmindra  ThirthaSwamiar of Sri Shirur Mutt it was pointed out that-"though	 levying  of fees is only a particular form  of	 theexercise of the taxing power of the State, our	Constitutionhas  placed fees under a separate category for	purposes  oflegislation  and  at  the  end of  each	 one  of  the  threelegislative  lists, it has given a power to  the  particularlegislature  to	 legislate  on the  imposition	of  fees  inrespect	 to  every one of the items dealt with in  the	listitself".It was also pointed that-"the  essence of a tax is compulsion, that is to say, it  isimposed under statutory power without the taxpayer's consentand   the   payment  is	 enforced  by	law.	The   secondcharacteristic of a tax is that it is an imposition made forpublic	purpose without reference to any special benefit  tobe conferred on the payer of the tax.  This is expressed  bysaying	that the levy of tax is for the purposes of  generalrevenue, which when(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 1005.571collected  forms part of the public revenues of	 the  State.As the object of a tax is not to confer any special  benefitupon any particular individual, there is, as it is said,  noelement of quid pro quo between the tax-payer and the publicauthority.   Another feature of taxation is that as it is  apart  of the common burden, quantum of imposition  upon	 thetax-payer depends generally upon his capacity to pay." As to fees, it was pointed out that-"a  'fee' is generally defined to be a charge for a  specialservice rendered to individuals by some governmental agency.The  amount  of fee levied is supposed to be  based  on	 theexpenses  incurred  by	the  Government	 in  rendering	 theservice,  though  in many cases the  costs  are	 arbitrarilyassessed.   Ordinarily, the fees are uniform and no  accountis taken of the varying abilities of different recipients topay."Finally, it was pointed out that-"the  distinction between a tax and a fee lies primarily  inthe fact that a tax is levied as a part of a common  burden,while  a  fee  is  a  payment  for  a  special	benefit	  orprivilege............... Public interest seems to be at	 thebasis  of all impositions, but in a fee it is  some  specialbenefit which the individual receives."The consequence of these principles was that-"if,  as we hold, a fee is regarded as a sort of  return  orconsideration  for  services  rendered,	 it  is	  absolutelynecessary  that the levy of fees should, on the face of	 thelegislative provision be co-related to the expenses incurredby  Government in rendering the	 services...............  Ifthe   money  thus  paid	 is  set  apart	  and	appropriatedspecifically  for  the performance of such work and  is	 notmerged in the public revenues for the benefit of the generalpublic, it could be counted as fees and not a tax."Having laid down these principles, that case then consideredthe  vires  of	s.  76 of the  Madras  Hindu  Religious	 andCharitable  Endowments	Act,  No. XIX of 1951,	and  it	 waspointed	 out  that  the material fact  which  negatived	 thetheory	of  fees in that case was that the money  raised  bylevy of the contribution was not ear-marked or specified fordefraying the expenses572that the Government had to incur in performing the services.All  the  collections went to the consolidated fund  of	 theState  and all the expenses had to be met not out  of  thosecollections  but  out of the general revenues  by  a  propermethod	of  appropriation as was done in the case  of  othergovernment   expenses.	  That	in  itself  might   not	  beconclusive, but in, that case there was total absence of anyco-relation between the expenses incurred by the  Governmentand the amount raised by contribution under the provision ofs.  76	and in those circumstances the theory of  return  orcounter-payment or quid pro quo could not have any  possibleapplication  to that case.  Consequently,  the	contributionlevied under s. 76 was held to be a tax and not a fee.In  the second case of Mahant Sri Jagannath Ramanuj  Das  v.The State of Orissa (1), a similar imposition by the  OrissaLegislature  came up for consideration.	 After referring  tothe earlier case, it was pointed out that-"two  elements are thus. essential in order that  a  paymentmay  be regarded as a fee.  In the first place, it  must  belevied	in  consideration  of  certain	services  which	 theindividuals  accepted either willingly or unwillingly.	 Butthis  by itself is not enough to make the imposition a	fee,if the payments demanded for rendering of such services	 arenot set apart or specifically appropriated for that  purposebut  are  merged in the general revenue of the State  to  bespent for general public purposes."The  Orissa  imposition	 was held to be a  fee	because	 thecollections  made  were	 not merged in	the  general  publicrevenue	 and  were  meant for the  purpose  of	meeting	 theexpenses  of the Commissioner and his office which  was	 themachinery  set up for due administration of the	 affairs  ofthe  religious institution.  They went to constitute a	fundwhich  was contemplated by s. 50 of the Orissa Act and	thisfund  was  specifically	 set apart  for	 rendering  servicesinvolved in carrying out the provisions of the Act.The third case, namely, Ratilal Panachand Gandhi(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 1046.573v.   The  State of Bombay (1) came from Bombay.	 Sec. 58  ofthe Bombay Act, No. XXIX of 1950, provided for an impositionin proportion to the gross annual income of the trust.	Thisimposition was levied for the purpose of due  administrationof  the	 trust	property  and  for  defraying  the  expensesincurred  in connection with the same.	After  referring  tothe two earlier cases, the Court went on to say that-"taxis	a  common  burden  and the  only  return  which	 thetaxpayer gets is participation in the common benefits of theState.	 Fees, on the other hand, are payments primarily  inthe  public interest, but for some special service  renderedor some special work done for the benefit of those from whomthe payments are demanded.  Thus in fees there is always  anelement	 of quid pro quo which is absent in  a	tax.........But in order that the collections made by the Government canrank  as  fees, there must be co-relation between  the	levyimposed	 and  the  expenses incurred by the  State  for	 thepurpose of rendering such services." It was then pointed outthat  the contributions, which were collected under  s.	 58,were to be credited in the Public Trusts Administration Fundas  constituted	 under s. 57.  This fund was to	 be  appliedexclusively   for  the	payment	 of  charges  for   expensesincidental  to	the  regulation of  public  trusts  and	 forcarrying  into	effect	the  provisions	 of  the  Act.	 Theimposition therefore was in that case held to be a fee.These  decisions clearly bring out the difference between  atax  and  a fee and generally speaking there  is  always  anelement	 of  quid  pro quo in a fee and	 the  amount  raisedthrough	 a fee is co-related to the expenses  necessary	 forrendering the services which are the basis of quid pro	quo.Further,  the  amount  collected as a fee  does	 not  go  toaugment the general revenues of the State and many a time  aspecial	 fund is created in which fees	are  credited-thoughthis is not absolutely necessary.  But as I read these deci-sions, they cannot be held to lay down that 'What is in pithand substance a tax can become a fee merely(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 1055.574because a fund is created in which collections are  creditedand  some services may be rendered to the persons from	whomcollections are made.  If that were so, it will be  possibleto  convert many taxes not otherwise leviable into  fees  bythe  device  of creating a special fund and  attaching	someservice to be rendered through that fund to the persons fromwhom  collections are made.  I am therefore of opinion	thatone  must first look at the pith and substance of the  levy,and  if	 in  its pith and substance it	is  not	 essentiallydifferent  from a tax it cannot be converted into a  fee  bycreating  a  special  fund  in	which  the  collections	 arecredited and attaching some services to be rendered  throughthat fund.Let  me	 then look at the pith and substance  of  the  cess,which has been imposed in this case.  The cess consists of alevy  not  exceeding  five per centum of the  value  of	 theminerals  at  the  pit's mouth on  all	extracted  minerals.Prima facie such a levy is nothing more nor less than a dutyof excise.  Item 84 of List I gives power to levy duties  ofexcise exclusively to the Union and is in these terms :-"Duties of excise on tobacco and other goods manufactured orproduced in India except-(a)  alcoholic liquors for human consumption;(b)  opium,  Indian  hemp  and	other  narcotic	 drugs	 andnarcotics,  but including medicinal and toilet	preparationscontaining  alcohol  or	 any  substance	 included  in	sub-paragraph (b) of this entry."This  item  gives power to Parliament to  impose  duties  ofexcise on all goods manufactured. or produced in India	withcertain	  exceptions   mentioned   therein.    Taking	thisparticular  case, coal is produced from the mine  and  wouldclearly	 be covered by the words " other goods	produced  inIndia" and a duty of excise can be levied on it.  What	thenexactly	 is  meant by a duty of excise?	 Reference  in	thisconnection  may	 be made to Governor-General in	 Council  v.Province  of  Madras  (1).  In that  case  the	point  arosewhether the sales-tax imposed by the Madras Legislature	 wasa duty of excise.  The Privy Council pointed out that--(1)  (1945) L.R. 72 I.A. 91.575"in  a Federal constitution in which there is a division  oflegislative   powers   between	 Central   and	  Provinciallegislatures,  it appears to be inevitable that	 controversyshould	arise  whether	one  or	 other	legislature  is	 notexceeding   its	 own,  and  encroaching	 on   the   other's,constitutional legislative power, and in such a	 controversyit is a principle, which their Lordships do not hesitate  toapply  in the present case, that it is not the name  of	 thetax but its real nature, its 'pith and substance' as it	 hassometimes been said which must determine into what  categoryit falls."The Privy Council went on to consider what a duty of  excisewas and said that-"it is primarily a duty levied on a manufacturer or producerin respect of the commodity manufactured or produced.  It isa  tax	on  goods not on sales or the proceeds	of  sale  ofgoods.	Though sometimes a duty of excise may be imposed  onfirst sales, a duty of excise and a tax on the sale of goodswere  separate	and  distinct  imposts and  in	law  do	 notoverlap."The  Privy Council approved of the decisions of the  FederalCourt  in re The Central Provinces and Berar Sales of  MotorSpirit	and  Lubricants	 Taxation  Act,	 1938  (1)  and	 TheProvince of Madras v. Messrs.  Boddu Paidanna and Sons	(2).It  seems  to have been urged that because in some  cases  aduty  of excise may be levied on the occasion of  the  firstsale  and  a  sales  tax may also  be  levied  on  the	sameoccasion, there is really no difference between the two.  Itis however clear that a duty of excise is primarily a tax ongoods manufactured or produced; it is not a tax on the	saleof  goods,  though the taxing authority may as a  matter  ofconcession  to the producer not charge the  tax	 immediatelythe goods are produced and may postpone it, to make it	easyfor the producer to pay the tax, till the first sale is madeby him; nevertheless the charge is still on the goods and istherefore a duty of excise.  On the other hand, a sales	 taxcan only be levied when a sale is made and there is  nothingto prevent its levy on the first sale.	The two concepts(1) (1939) F.C.R. 18.		  (2) (1948) F.C.R. go.576are however different and, as the Privy Council pointed out,a  sales tax and a duty of excise are separate and  distinctimposts	 and in law do not overlap.  The pith and  substanceof a duty of excise is that it is primarily a duty levied ona  manufacturer	 or  producer in respect  of  the  commoditymanufactured or produced.Let me therefore see what the Orissa Legislature has done inthe  present  case.   It has levied a cess  at	a  rate	 notexceeding  five per centum on the value of minerals  at	 thepit's  mouth on all extracted minerals.	 All  the  extractedminerals are nothing other than goods produced and the	cessis levied on the goods produced at a rate not exceeding fiveper  centum  of	 the value at the  pit's  mouth.   The	cesstherefore in the present case cannot be anything other	thana  duty	 of excise.  The pith and substance of the  cess  inthis case falls fairly and squarely within entry 84 of	ListI and is therefore a duty of excise, which cannot be  leviedby  the Orissa State Legislature.  I may in this  connectionrefer  to the cesses levied by the Central  Legislature	 andParliament  by Act XXXII of 1947 and by the Act No.  LXV  of1951.	Sec.  3 of Act XXXII of 1947 lays  down	 that  thereshall be levied and collected as a cess for the purposes  ofthat  Act a duty of excise on all coal and  coke  dispatchedfrom  collieries at such rate not less than four  annas	 andnot  more than eight annas per ton as may from time to	timebe  fixed by the Central Government by notification  in	 theOfficial  Gazette.   This is obviously a tax  on  the  goodsproduced, the basis of the tax being so much per ton.  Againsec. 9 of Act LXV of 1951 lays down that there may be leviedand collected as a cess for the purposes of that Act on	 allgoods  manufactured  or	 produced  in  any  such   scheduledindustry  as may be specified in this behalf by the  CentralGovernment by notified order a duty of excise at a rate	 notexceeding  two annas per centum of the value of	 the  goods.This   again  is  clearly  a  tax  on  goods   produced	  ormanufactured  and is in the nature of a duty of excise,	 thebasis  of the tax being so much of the value of	 the  goods.If these two taxes are duties of excise,			    577I  fail to see any difference in pith and substance  betweenthese two taxes and the cess levied under the Act.It is however urged that the method employed in the Act	 forrealising the cess is only a method of quantification of thefee and merely because of this quantification, the pith	 andsubstance of the impost does not change from a fee to a dutyof  excise.  Reference in this connection was made to  threecases of quantification.  In Sir Byramjee Jeejeebhoy v.	 TheProvince  of Bombay (1), a question arose with respect to  atax  imposed on urban immovable property, whether it  was  atax on lands and buildings.  The challenge to the tax was onthe ground that it was tax on income or capital value withinitems  54  and 55 of List I of the Seventh Schedule  of	 theGovernment  of India Act and could not therefore be  imposedby  the Bombay Legislature.  It was held that the tax was  atax on lands and buildings within the meaning of item 42  ofList II of the same Schedule and that the basis of the	tax,which was the annual value, would not convert it into a	 taxon  income or capital value.  The High Court considered	 thepith  and  substance  of  the  said  Act  and  came  to	 theconclusion   that  every  tax  on  annual  value   was	 notnecessarily a tax on income and it was held that the mode ofassessment of a tax did not determine its character and	 onehas to look to the essential character of the tax to  decidewhether	 it was a tax on income or on lands  and  buildings.Looking to the pith and substance of the tax it was held  inthat  case that it was a tax on lands and  buildings.	Thatdecision was in the circumstances of that case right becausethe  intention of the legislature was not to tax the  incomeof any one; the essential character of the tax in that	casewas  to tax the lands and buildings and the annual value  ofthe lands and buildings was only taken as a mode of  levyingthe tax.  In the present case, however, the very mode of thelevy of the cess is nothing other than the levy of a duty ofexcise	and  therefore the principle of	 quantification	 forpurposes of a fee cannot be extended to(1)  I.L.R. 1940 Bom. 58.578such an extent as to convert what is in pith and substance atax into a fee on that basis.The  next  case	 to which reference was	 made  is  MunicipalCorporation, Ahmedabad v. Patel Gordhandas Hargovandas	(1).In that case the Ahmedabad Bo. rough Municipality had levieda  rate on open lands and the basis of the levy was one	 percentum of the capital value of the land.  It was urged	thatthis  amounted to a capital levy within entry 54 of List  I;but  the  court repelled that contention and held  that	 thelevy  was in pith and substance a tax on lands,	 which	camewithin	entry 42 of List II of the Seventh Schedule  to	 theGovernment  of India Act.  A distinction was made between  atax  on	 land which is levied on the basis  of	its  capitalvalue and a tax which is on capital treating it as an  assetitself.	  This decision also, if I may say so with  respect,is  correct,  for the basic idea was to tax lands  and	somemethod had to be found for doing so and the method  evolved,though	it might look like a capital levy, was in  pith	 andsubstance not so. But the theory of quantification which  isthe  basis of these two cases cannot be stretched so far  asto  turn levies which are in pith and substance	 taxes	intofees,  by  the	process of attaching  certain  services	 andcreating a fund.The  third case is Ralla Ram v. The Province of East  Punjab(2).   That was a case of a tax on lands and  buildings	 andannual value was the basis on which the tax was levied.	 TheFederal	 Court	rightly	 pointed  out  that  the  pith	 andsubstance of the levy had to be seen and on that view it wasnot  income-tax	 but a tax on lands and	 buildings  and	 themethod	adopted was merely a method of quantification.	 TheFederal	 Court	also  pointed out that "where  there  is  anapparent conflict between an Act of the Federal	 Legislatureand  an	 Act of the Provincial Legislature, we must  try  toascertain  the	pith and substance or the  true	 nature	 andcharacter  of the conflicting provisions and that before  anAct  is declared ultra vires, there should be an attempt  toreconcile  the two conflicting jurisdictions, and,  only  ifsuch a reconciliation should prove(1) I.L.R. 1954 Bom. 41.(2) (1948) F.C.R. 207.579impossible, the impugned Act should be declared invalid." Itmay  also be pointed out that in all these three cases,	 onesource	of  income of an individual or one item out  of	 thetotal capital of an individual was the basis of	 calculationwhile  income-tax or capital levy is generally on the  totalincome	or the total capital of a person.  That aspect	musthave  gone  into the decision that the method  employed	 wasmerely a mode for imposing a tax on lands and buildings.  Inthe  present case, however, I see no difference between	 themethod of imposing a duty of excise and the method  employedin the Act for imposing a cess-a matter which will be  clearfrom  the cesses imposed under the two Central Acts  alreadyreferred to (No.  XXXII of 1947 and No. LXV of 1951).  It isnot  as	 if  there  could be no method	of  imposing  a	 feeproperly  so  called in this case except the  one  employed.Two  methods readily suggest themselves.  A lump sum  annualfee  could  be levied on each mine even on  a  graded  scaledepending on the size of the mine as evidenced by its  sharecapital.   Or a similar graded fee could be levied  on	eachmine  depending on its size determined by the number of	 menemployed   therein.    Where   therefore   the	 result	  ofquantification	is  to bring a	particular  impost  entirelywithin the ambit of a tax it would not be right to say	thatsuch an impost is still a fee, because certain services haveto  be	rendered  and  a fund  has  been  created  in  whichcollections  of	 the  impost are  credited.   If  this	werepermissible  many  taxes  not otherwise	 leviable  would  beconverted  into	 fees  by the simple device  of	 creating  aspecial	 fund and attaching certain services to be  renderedfrom the amount in that fund.  That would in my opinion be acolourable   exercise  of  the	power  of  legislation,	  asexplained  in  K. C. Gajapati Narayan Deo v.  The  State  ofOrissa (1).  Let me illustrate how taxes can be turned	intofees on the so-called basis of quantification with the	helpof  the	 device	 of creating a fund  and  attaching  certainservices to be rendered out of monies in the fund.  Take thecase  of income-tax under item 82 of List I of	the  SeventhSchedule, which is exclusively reserved(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 1.580for the Union.	Suppose that some State Legislature wants toimpose a tax on income other than agricultural income in thegarb  of  fees.	 All that it has to do is then to  create  aspecial	 fund  out of the amounts collected  and  to  attachrendering  of certain services to the fund.  All that  wouldbe necessary would be to define the services to be  renderedso widely that the amount required for the purpose would  bepractically  limitless.	  In  that case there  would  be  nodifficulty  in levying any amount of tax on income, for	 theamount collected would always be insufficient for the  largenumber	of services to be rendered.  What has to be done  isto  find  out a number of items in Lists II and III  of	 theSeventh	 Schedule in respect of which fees can be levied  bythe State Legislature.	These fees can be levied on a  totalbasis  for a large number of services under various  entriesof  Lists  II  and III.	 A fund can  be	 created,  say,	 forrendering  services  of various kinds to  residents  of	 onedistrict.   In order to meet the expenses of tendering	suchservices,  suppose, the legislature imposes a tax  on  everyone in the district at 10 per centum of the net total income(other than agricultural income); the amount so collected isput  in	 a  separate fund and ear-marked  for  such  specialservices  to be rendered to the residents of that  district.Can  it	 be said that such a levy is a fee  justified  undervarious	 entries  of  Lists II and III, and  not  a  tax  onincome,	 on  the  ground  that this  is	 merely	 a  mode  ofquantification?	  As an instance, take, item 6 of  List	 II,"Public health and sanitation, hospitals and  dispensaries";item 9, "Relief of the disabled and unemployable"; item	 II,Education;   item   12,	 Libraries,  museums   and   similarinstitutions";	item  13, communications, that	is  to	say,roads,	bridges and other means of communications; item	 17,"Water,	 that  is  to say, water  supplies,  irrigation	 andcanals,	 drainage and embankments, water storage  and  waterpower"; and item', 25, "Gas and gas-works"; item 23 of	ListIII,  "Social security and social insurance, employment	 andunemployment";	 item  24,  "Welfare  of  labour   includingconditions  of work, provident funds,  employers'  liabilityworkmen's compensation, invalidity and old age581pensions  and maternity benefits"; item 25, "Vocational	 andtechnical  training of labour"; and item 38,  "Electricity".Assume that a fund is created for rendering, these  servicesto  the residents of a district.  The State  Legislature  isentitled to impose fees for rendering these services to	 theresidents of the district; the costs of these services wouldobviously be limitless and in order to meet these costs, theState  legislature levies a consolidated fee for  all  thesepurposes  at  10 per centum of the total net income  on	 theresidents  of  the  district  (excluding  his	agriculturalincome)	 as a measure of quantification of the fee.  Can  itbe  said in the circumstances that such a levy would not  beIncome-tax,  simply because a fund is created to be used  inthe  district where collections are made and these  serviceshave  to  be  rendered out of the fund	so  created  to	 theresidents of that district and to no others?  The answer canonly  be one, viz., that the nature of the impost is  to  beseen in its pith and substance; and if in pith and substanceit  is	income-tax within item 82 of List I of	the  SeventhSchedule  it  will still remain income-tax in spite  of	 thecreation of a fund and the attaching of certain services  tothe monies in that fund to be rendered in a particular area.Such an impost can never be justified as a consolidated	 feeon the ground that it is merely a method of quantification.Compare what has been done in this case.  Sec. 3 of the	 Actwhich  refers  to  the	services  to  be  rendered  mentionscommunications, that is,, roads, bridges and other means  ofcommunication (barring those given in List I),	water-supplyand  electricity,  for the better development of  the  area.These three items themselves would mean expenditure of	suchlarge  amounts	that anything could be charged as a  fee  tomeet  the costs, particularly in an undeveloped	 State	likeOrissa.	  Further, the section goes on to mention  provisionfor  the welfare of residents or workers in any	 such  area,which  would  include  such things as  social  security	 andsocial	insurance,  provident-funds,  employer's  liability,workmen's compensation, invalidity and old age pensions	 andmaternity   benefits   and  may	 be  even   employment	 andunemployment.  Again large funds would74582be  required  for these purposes.  Therefore,  the  servicesenumerated  in s. 3 being so large and requiring such  largesums,  any amount can be levied as a fee and in the name  ofquantification any tax, even though it may be in List I, canbe imposed; and that is exactly what has been done,  namely,what  is really a duty of excise has been imposed as  a	 feefor these purposes which fall under items 13 and 17 of	ListII and 23, 24 and 38 of List III.  There can be no doubt  inthe  circumstances that the levy of a cess as a fee in	thiscase  is  a colourable piece of legislation.  I do  not	 saythat  the  Orissa State Legislature did	 this  deliberately.The  motive of the legislature in such cases  is  irrelevantand it is the effect of the legislation that has to be seen.Looking	 at  that,  the cess in this case  is  in  pith	 andsubstance nothing other than a duty of excise under item  84of   List  I  and  therefore  the  State   legislature	 wasincompetent to levy it as a fee.The next contention on behalf of the State of Orissa is thatif  the	 cess is not justified as a fee, it is a  tax  underitem  50  of  List  II of the  Seventh	Schedule.   Item  50provides  for  taxes  on  mineral  rights  subject  to	 anylimitations imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineraldevelopment.  This raises a question as to what are taxes onmineral rights.	 Obviously, taxes on mineral rights must  bedifferent  from	 taxes on goods produced in  the  nature  ofduties	of excise.  If taxes on mineral rights also  includetaxes  on  minerals produced, there would be  no  differencebetween	 taxes on mineral rights and duties of excise  underitem  84  of List I. A comparison of Lists I and II  of	 theSeventh Schedule shows that the same tax is not put in	boththe  Lists.   Therefore,  taxes on mineral  rights  must  bedifferent from duties of excise which are taxes on  mineralsproduced.  The difference can be understood if one sees thatbefore minerals are extracted and become liable to duties ofexcise somebody has got to work the mines. The usual  methodof working them is for the owner of the mine to grant miningleases to those who have got the capital to work the  mines.There should583therefore be no difficulty in holding that taxes on  mineralrights	are taxes on the right to extract minerals  and	 nottaxes  on  the	minerals actually extracted.   Thus  tax  onmineral	 rights would be confined, for example, to taxes  onleases of mineral rights and on premium or royalty for that.Taxes on such premium and royalty would be taxes on  mineralrights while taxes on the minerals actually extracted  wouldbe  duties of excise.  It is said that, there may  be  caseswhere the owner himself extracts minerals and does not	giveany  right of extraction to somebody else and that  in	suchcases  in the absence of mining leases or  sub-leases  therewould  be no way of levying tax on mineral right,-,.  It  isenough	to say that these cases also, rare though they	are,present	 no  difficulty.  Take the case of taxes  on  annualvalue of buildings.  Where there is a lease of the building,the annual value is determined by the lease-money; but thereare  many cases where owners themselves live  in  buildings.In  such  cases also taxes on buildings are  levied  on	 theannual	value worked out according to certain rules.   Therewould be no difficulty where an owner himself works the mineto value the mineral rights on the same principles on  whichleases	of  mineral  rights are made and  then	to  tax	 theroyalty	 which,	 for example, the owner might  have  got  ifinstead of working the mine himself he had leased it out  tosomebody  else.	 There can be no doubt therefore that  taxeson mineral rights are taxes of this nature and not taxes  onminerals  actually produced.  Therefore the present case  isnot  a	tax on mineral rights; it is a tax on  the  mineralsactually  produced  and	 can be no  different  in  pith	 andsubstance  from	 a tax on goods produced which	comes  underItem  84  of List I, as duty of excise.	  The  present	levytherefore under s. 4 of the Act cannot be justified as a taxon mineral rights.In  the view I have taken, it is not necessary	to  considerthe  other  point,  raised on  behalf  of  the	petitioners,namely, that even if it is a fee, in view of the two CentralActs  (mentioned  earlier) the, Orissa Legislature  was	 notcompetent to pass the Act.  I would584therefore  allow the petition, and declare that	 the  OrissaMining	Areas  Development  Fund Act, 1952,  is	 beyond	 theconstitutional competence of the Orissa Legislature to	passit.  The whole Act must be struck down because there will bevery  little left in the Act if s. 4 falls as it must.	 Thelegislature would never have passed the Act without s. 4.By  COURT.  In accordance with the majority Judgment of	 theCourt, the Writ Petition is dismissed with costs.