PETITIONER:A.  N. LAKSHMANA SHENOY	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE INCOME TAX OFFICER, ERNAKULAM &ANOTHER(and connected appDATE OF JUDGMENT:28/04/1958BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.BOSE, VIVIANDAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  795		  1959 SCR  751ACT:       Income	Tax-Re-assessment-Original  assessment	under	the       Provisions of Travancore, Cochin and Mysore income-tax Acts-       Constitutional  changes resulting in Travancore and  Cochin,       and  Mysore  becoming  Part  B  States-Extension	 of  Indian       income-tax  Act	to  those  States--  Applicability  of	the       Travancore,  Cochin  and	 Mysore	 Income-tax  Acts  for	re-       assesment  for Prior Period-Financial agreement between	the       President of India and the Rajpramukh-       96       752       Effect  on re-assessment	 Proceedings-Travancore	 Income-tax       Act,  1121 (Travancore XXIII Of 1121), s. 47-Cochin  Income-       tax Act, 1117  (Cochin VI Of 1117), s. 44 -Mysore Income-tax       Act,  1923 (Mysore V Of 1923), s. 34-Finance Act, 1950  (XXV       Of 1950), s. 13(1)Constitution of India, Arts. 278 and 295.HEADNOTE:Section	 13(1)	of  the	 Finance  Act,	1950,  provided	  Ifimmediately  before the 1st day of April, 1950, there is  inforce  in any Part B State...... any law relating to  incometax  or	 supertax or tax on profits of	business,  that	 lawshall  cease to have effect except for the purposes  of	 thelevy, assessment and collection of income-tax and  super-taxin  respect of any period not included in the previous	yearfor  the purposes of assessment under the Indian  Income-taxAct,  1922  for the year ending on the 31st  day  of  March,1951,  or for any subsequent year, or, as the case  may	 be,the levy, assessment and collection of the tax on profits ofbusiness  for any chargeable accounting period ending on  orbefore the 31st day of March, 1949."The  appellant, a merchant carrying on his business  in	 theerstwhile  States of Travancore and Cochin, was assessed  toincome-tax  for the two accounting years 1122 M.  E.  (1946-1947)  and 1123 M.  E. (1947-1948) under the income-tax	 lawin  force  there, namely, the Travancore Income-tax  Act  of1121  M.   E. and the Cochin Income-tax Act of	1117  M.  E.Between	 1947  and 1950 there  were  constitutional  changesresulting in the integration of the two States, formation ofthe United State of Travancore and Cochin, accession of	 thelatter to the Dominion of India, and finally, its acceptanceof  the	 Constitution of India whereby it became  a  Part  BState  within  the Constitution of India.  The	question  offinancial  integration was considered by the  Indian  StatesFinances   Enquiry  Committee  and  on	the  basis  of	 therecommendations made by it a financial agreement was enteredinto  on February 25, 1950, between the President  of  Indiaand  the Rajpramukh of the State of  Travancore-Cochin.	  ByArt.  277  of  the Constitution	 taxes	leviable  under	 theTravancore  Income-tax	Act  or the  Cochin  Income-tax	 Actcontinued  to be so levied until provision to  the  contrarywas  made by Parliament by law.	 Such provision was made  bythe Finance Act, 1950, which extended the Indian  Income-taxAct,  1922,  to the State of Travancore-Cochin,	 but  by  s.13(1) saved certain provisions of the Travancore and  CochinIncome-tax  Acts.   In	respect of the	assessment  for	 theaccounting  year  1124	M.  E.	the  Income-tax	 Officer  ofErnakulam  rejected  the  appellant's books  of	 account  asunreliable and made a " best of judgment " assessment by hisorder  dated  January 11, 1952.	 On February 12,  1952,	 theIncome-tax  Officer, Ernakulam, issued four notices  to	 theappellant, two under s. 44 Of the Cochin Income-tax Act	 andtwo  under  s. 47 of the Travancore Income-tax	Act  statingtherein	 that in consequence of definite  information  whichhad  come  into his possession, he had discovered  that	 theincome of the appellant753for the assessment years 1123 and II24 M. E had been  under-assessed and that he proposed to re-assess the said income ;and the appellant was asked to submit a return in respect ofhis  total world income for the two years in question.	 Theappellant  challenged  the jurisdiction	 of  the  Income-taxOfficer	 to re-assess his income and contended (1) that	 theassessment order dated January 11, 1952, made by the Income-tax  Officer  for the accounting year 1124 M. E.  being	 theonly  document	on which the Income-tax Officer	 relied	 forissuing a notice to the appellant, the requisite  conditionsfor  the  application  of  the	statutory  provisions	werelacking, (2) that s. 13(1) of the Finance Act, 1950, did nothave  the effect of saving the provisions of the  TravancoreIncome-tax Act or the Cochin Income-tax Act for the  purposeof  re-assessment of income-tax, and (3) that the  financialagreement  made between the President of India and the	Raj-pramukh	 dated February 25, 1950, which	 received  constitu-tional	sanctity in Art. 278 of the  Constitution,  renderedthe    initiation   of	 such	re-assessment	 proceedingsunconstitutional and void :Held,  (1) that though the meaning of the phrase "  definiteinformation " in S. 44 (1) Of the Cochin Income-tax Act	 andS.  47(1) Of the Travancore Income-tax Act, must  depend  onthe  circumstances  of	each case, there must  be  a  casualconnection  between  the  information  and  the	  discovery,referred to in the sections ; but discovery does not mean  aconclusion  of	certainty  at the stage of notice  ;  it  isenough if the Income-tax Officer forms an honest belief.Accordingly,  the assessment order dated January  11,  1952,which  disclosed  a  definite  and  systematic	pattern	  oftransactions for avoidance of tax not only in respect of theyear covered by the order but spread over years anterior  toit,  amounted  to information which, if	 honestly  believed,would  reasonably  support  the opinion	 of  the  Income-taxOfficer	 that there was a discovery of " escaped  "  income,etc., within the meaning of the sections ;Firm jitanyam Niymalram v. Commissioner of Income-tax, A. 1.R. 1952 Pat. 163, approved.(2)that the expression " levy, assessment and collection  ofincome tax " in s. 13(1) Of the Finance Act, 1950, was	wideenough	to comprehend re-assessment proceedings under s.  47of  the	 Travancore Income-tax Act and S. 44 Of	 the  CochinIncome-tax Act;Commissioner  of Income-tax, Bombay Presidency and  Aden  v.Khemchand Ramdas, (1938) L. R. 65 1. A. 236, explained.Firm  L. Hazari Mal v. Income-tax Officer, Ambala, A. 1.  R.1957 Punjab 5, approved.(3)that on a true construction of the recommendations of theIndian States Finances Enquiry Committee, the financial754agreement between the President of India and the  Rajpramukhdid not render the impugned proceedings unconstitutional  orvoid.In the connected appeals, the respondents who were merchantsdoing  business	 in the State of Mysore,  were	assessed  toincome-tax  under the Mysore Income-tax Act, 1923,  for	 theyears  prior to the integration of Mysore with	India.	 Butsubsequent to the integration of Mysore notices under S.  34Of  the Mysore Income-tax Act were issued against  them	 forre-assessment  of  income-tax  for the years  prior  to	 theintegration.  The respondents contended that the  Income-taxOfficer	 had  no jurisdiction to issue such notices  on	 thegrounds	 (1)  that under the Finance Act, 1950,	 the  MysoreIncome-tax  Act, 1923, stood repealed on and from  April  1,1950,  and s. 13(1) of the former Act kept alive the  MysoreAct  for the purpose of levy, assessment and  collection  ofincome-tax, etc., for the period mentioned therein, but	 didnot save s. 34 Of the Mysore Income-tax Act for the  purposeof  re-assessment of income-tax and, therefore, the  noticesissued under s. 34 were without jurisdiction and  authority,(2)  that the financial agreement between the  President  ofIndia and the Rajpramukh of Mysore, dated February 28, 1950,rendered  the initiation of such  re-assessment	 proceedingsunconstitutional  and  void, and (3) that  the	jurisdictionunder  s.  34 Of the Mysore Income-tax Act  was	 limited  toascertainment  of extra income not assessed and the  sectiondid  not confer jurisdiction to make a new assessment  underthe Act.-Held, (1) that the Finance Act, 1950, empowered the  Income-tax  Officer to take proceedings under s. 34 Of	 the  MysoreIncome-tax  Act, for re-assessment, for the prior years,  ofthe under estimated or escaped income;(2)that the financial agreement dated February 28, 1950, didnot  render the proceedings for	 re-assessment,	 unconstitu-tional or void; and(3)that	 though there was a distinction between an  originalor  normal assessment under S. 23 and a re-assessment  unders.  34 of the Mysore Income-tax Act, the expression "  levy,assessment and collection of income-tax " in s. 13(1) of theFinance Act, 1950, had been used in a comprehensive sense soas  to	include the whole procedure for	 imposing  liabilityupon the assessee.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 143 to 145of  1954, 27 to 30 and 161 to 164 of 1956.Appeals	 from  the judgment and order  dated  September	 14,1953, of the former Travancore-Cochin High Court in OriginalPetitions  Nos.	 53, 56 and 57 of 1952.	  Appeals  from	 thejudgment  and order dated December 14, 1954, of	 the  MysoreHigh Court in C. P. Nos.75552 and 53 and W. P. Nos. 105 and 106 of 1954.  Appeals	fromthe  judgment and order dated March 22, 1955, of the  MysoreHigh Court in Writ Petition No. 122 of 1954 and order  datedApril 7, 1955, in W.P. Nos. 35, 36 and 37 of 1955.K.S.  Krishnaswami Iyengar, M. U. Isaac and Sardar  Bahadur,for the appellants in C. As.  Nos. 143-45 of 1954.H.   N. Sanyal, Addl.  Solicitor-General of India, B.  Gana-pathy  Iyer and R. H. Dhebar, for the appellants in  C.	 As.Nos. 27-30 and 161-164 of 1956.R.   Ganapathy Iyer and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent  inC. As.	Nos. 143-145 of 1954.A.   V.	 Viswanatha  Sastri and G.  Gopalakishnan,  for	 therespondents in C. As.  Nos. 27-30 of 1956.A. V. Viswanatha Sastri, K. R. Choudhury and G.	  Gopalakri-shnan, for the respondents in C. As.  Nos. 161-164 of 1956.1958.  April 28.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byS.K.  DAS  J.-This judgment relates to	and  governs  elevenappeals which for convenience have been classified into	 twogroups.	  The  first  group  may  be  called  the  group  ofTravancore-Cochin appeals, and within this group fall  CivilAppeals	 Nos. 143 to 145 of 1954.  The, second group may  becalled the group of Mysore appeals and within this group areeight  appeals, namely, Civil Appeals Nos. 27 to 30 of	1956and 161 to 164 of 1956.	 By reason of the circumstance	thatcertain common questions of law and fact arise in all  theseeleven	appeals, they have been heard one after	 the  other;but  it	 will be convenient and will avoid confusion  if  westate  the  facts relating to  the  Travancore-Cochin  groupfirst  and then deal with the questions	 arising  therefrom.We shall then state the additional facts of the Mysore groupof  appeals, and answer the questions arising therefrom,  inso  far	 only  as they have not	 been  answered	 already  inrelation  to  the Travancore-Cochin group.  It may  be	hereadded756that in the Travancore-Cochin appeals (Civil Appeals 143  to145 of 1954) the appellant is the assessee, A. N.  LakshmanaShenoy, of Messrs.  New Guna Shenoy Company, Ernakulam,	 andthe two respondents are the Income-tax Officers of Ernakulamin Cochin and of Kottayam in Travancore.  In the other groupof  appeals, namely, the Mysore appeals, the appellants	 arethe  Income-tax	 Officers of certain income-tax	 circles  inBangalore  and	the respondents are assessees who  carry  onbusiness within the jurisdictional area of the said  Income-tax  Officers.	In the Travancore Cochin appeals,  the	HighCourt  of Travancore-Cochin came to a decision	against	 theassessee,  while  in the Mysore appeals the  High  Court  ofMysore came to an opposite conclusion on identical questionsof  law;  that	is why in the first  group  of	appeals	 theassessee  is  the  appellant and in  the  second  group	 theappellants are the Income-tax Officers.Travancore-Cochin  appeals: We proceed now to deal with	 theTravancore-Cochin  appeals.  The assessee, A.  N.  LakshmanaShenoy, is a hardware merchant who carried on his trade	 andbusiness for several years in the then States of  Travancoreand  Cochin, with his headquarters at Ernakulam	 in  Cochin.He  was assessed to income-tax in both the States under	 theincome-tax law in force there, namely, the Cochin Income-taxAct  of	 1117 M. E. (hereinafter referred to as	 the  CochinAct)  and  the	Travancore  Income-tax Act  of	1121  M.  E.(hereinafter referred to as the Travancore Act).  He was  soassessed  by  the  Incometax Officer at	 Ernakulam  for	 theCochin State and the Income-tax Officer at Kottayam for	 theTravancore State.  It is a matter of history that Cochin andTravancore  were formerly independent States, and  till	 thelapse  of  paramountcy,	 the Crown  as	represented  by	 andoperating  through  the political authorities  provided	 thenexus	between	  those	 States	 and  the   Central   IndianGovernment.  The Indian Independence Act, 1947, released theStates	from their obligation to the Crown; but	 in  August,1947,  the Rulers of the two States acceded to the  Dominionof India.  This was followed by a process of757two-fold  integration-the consolidation of the	States	intosizeable administrative units and their democratisation.  OnMay  27, 1949, the Rulers entered into a covenant which	 wasconcurred  in by the Government of India.  By that  covenantthe Rulers agreed that as from the first day of July,  1949,the States of Travancore and Cochin should be united in	 andform  one  State with a common	executive,  legislature	 andjudiciary by the name of the United State of Travancore	 andCochin.	 The covenant further provided that " there shall bea  Rajpramukh  for  the	 United	 State	and  the  Ruler	  ofTravancore  shall  be the first	 Rajpramukh;  the  executiveauthority  of  the United State shall be  exercised  by	 theRajpramukh and there shall be a council of ministers to	 aidand advise him ". Article IX of the covenant said that " theRajpramukh  shall  within a fortnight of the  appointed	 dayexecute	 on  behalf  of the United State  an  Instrument  ofAccession  in accordance with the provisions of s. 6 of	 theGovernment  of India Act, 1935, and in place of the  earlierInstruments  of Accession of the covenanting States; and  heshall by such Instrument, accept as matters with respect  towhich the Dominion Legislature may make laws for the  UnitedState  all the matters mentioned in List I and List  III  ofthe Seventh Schedule to the said Act, except the entries  inList I relating to any tax or duty ". There was a proviso tothe Article which said that nothing in the Article shall  bedeemed	to prevent the Rajpramukh from accepting any or	 allof  the	 entries in the said List I relating to any  tax  orduty   as  matters  with  respect  to  which  the   DominionLegislature may make laws for the United State.	 On July 14,1949,  a  supplementary	 Instrument  was  executed  by	 theRajpramukh  by	which he accepted, on behalf of	 the  UnitedState, all matters enumerated in List I and List III of	 theSeventh	 Schedule to the Government of India Act,  1935,  asmatters	 in respect of which the Dominion Legislature  mightmake  laws for the United State, subject, however,  to	"theproviso	 that nothing contained in the said lists or in	 anyother provision of the Government of India Act, 1935,  shallbe deemed to empower the758Dominion  Legislature  to  impose any tax  or  duty  in	 theterritories  of	 the United State.  The result was  that  inspite  of the integration and accession of the United  Stateto the Dominion of India, the Cochin Act continued to be  inforce  in  the territory formerly known as  Cochin  and	 theTravancore  Act	 in the territory known as  Travancore.	  OnNovember   24,	1949,  there  was  a  proclamation  by	 theRajpramukh  which stated that in the best interests  of	 theUnited State of Travancore and Cochin it was desirable	thatthe  constitutional  relationship  established	between	 theUnited	State  and the Dominion of India shall not  only  becontinued,  but the relation as between that State  and	 thecontemplated Union of India shall be further strengthened  ;it was then stated that the Constitution of India as draftedby  the	 Constituent Assembly of India which  included	dulyappointed  representatives  of the United State	 provided  asuitable  basis for strengthening the relation	between	 thetwo States.  The proclamation then went on to say-''And whereas by virtue of the power vested in it under	 theCovenant  establishing this State, the Legislative  Assemblyof  the State has resolved that the Constitution  framed  bythe Constituent Assembly of India be adopted by this State.I now hereby declare and direct-That the Constitution of India shortly to be adopted by	 theConstituent Assembly of India shall be the Constitution	 forthe  United State of Travancore and Cochin as for the  otherparts  of India and shall be enforced as such in  accordancewith the tenor of its provisions.That  the provisions of the said Constitution shall as	fromthe  date  of its commencement, supersede and  abrogate	 allother constitutional provisions inconsistent therewith whichare at present in force in this State."The  Constitution  of India came into force on	January	 26,1950,  and on that date Travancore-Cochin became one of	 thePart B States within the Constitution of India.	 Under	thatConstitution  the  subject of "taxes on	 income	 other	thanagricultural income" was759included in the Union Legislative List and Parliament alone'had  exclusive	power to; make laws in respect	thereof	 Alllaws  in force in the territory of Travancore-Cochin  becamesubject	 to  the  Constitution of lndia when  it  came	intoforce; but Art. 277 of the Constitution enaccted-" Any taxes, duties, cesses or fees which immediately beforethe  commencement of this Constitution, were being  lawfullylevied by the Government of any State or by any municipalityor  other  local authority or body for the purposes  of	 theState  municipality,  district	or  other  local  area	may,notwithstanding that those taxes, duties, cesses or fees arementioned in the Union List, continue to be levied and to beapplied to the same purposes until provision to the contraryis made by Parliament by law.The  result of the aforesaid provision of  the	Constitutionwas  that  the taxes leviable under the Cochin	Act  or	 theTravancore Act continued to be so levied until provision  tothe contrary was made by Parliament by law.  Such  provisionwas made by the Finance Act, 1950 (XXV of 1950).  Section  3of that Act extended the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, to thewhole  of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir,	witheffect from April 1, 1950.  The interpretation of s. 13	 (1)of this Finance Act, 1950, is one of the questions argued inthese  appeals,	 and  the relevant provision  of  that	sub-section must be quoted in full-"If immediately before the 1st day of April, 1950, there, isin  force in any Part B State other than Jammu and  Kashmir,or in, Manipur, Tripura or Vindhya Pradesh or in the  mergedterritor  of  CoochBehar any law relating to  income-tax  orsuper-tax  or  tax on profits of business,  that  law  shallcease  to have effect except for the purposes of  the  levy,assessment  and	 collection of income-tax and  super-tax  inrespect of any period not included in the previous year	 forthe purposes of assessment under the Indian Income-tax	Act,1922, for the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1951, orfor any, subsequent year, or, as the case may be, the  levy,assessment and collection of97760the tax on profits of business for any chargeable accountingperiod ending on or before the 31st day of March 1949.Provided  that any reference in any such law to an  officer,authority,  tribunal  or  court	 shall	be  construed  as  areference to the corresponding officer, authority,  tribunalor court appointed or constituted under the said Act, and ifany  question arises as to who such  corresponding  officer,authority, tribunal or court is, the decision of the CentralGovernment thereon shall be final: ".So  far	 we have traced the constitutional  history  of	 theintegration  of	 Travancore-Cochin,  its  accession  to	 theDominion  of  India  and  finally  its	acceptance  of	 theConstitution  of  India	 whereby it became a  Part  B  Statewithin	the  Constitution of India.  We now go back  to	 thestory  of the assessments made on the assessee.	 The  incomeof the assessee for the two accounting years, 1122 and	1123M.E. (corresponding to the years ending on August 16,  1947,and  August 16, 1948, respectively) was assessed in the	 twoassessment years, 1123 and 1124 M.E. in accordance with	 theCochin	Act  by the Income-tax Officer at Ernakulam  by	 hisorders	 dated	July  28,  1949,  and  January	 31,   1950,respectively.	These  assessments,  the  assessee  alleged,became final and he paid the taxes accordingly.	  Similarly,the income of the assessee in Travancore for the  accountingyears  1122 and 1123 M.E. was assessed under the  TravancoreAct for the assessment years 1123 and 1124 by the Income-taxOfficer,  Kottayam, by his orders dated April 11, 1949,	 andJuly 30, 1949, and these assessments also, according to	 theassessee,  became final and he paid the	 taxes	accordingly.The  income  of the assessee for the  accounting  year	1124M.E.was	 assessed under the Indian Incometax Act ' 1922,  inthe  assessment	 year  1951-52 by  the	Income-tax  Officer,Ernakulam, by his order dated January 21, 1952.	 The accountbooks  of the assessee were rejected as unreliable  and	 theIncome-tax  Officer, Ernakulam, made a " best of judgment  "assessment.   This  assessment order is Ext.   VIII  in	 therecord.	 The assessee appealed against it and, subsequently,on761December  14, 1953, that is, subsequent to the	decision  onthe  three  writ  petitions  filed  in	the  High  Court  ofTravancore-Cochin,  the	 Appellate  Assistant  Commissioner,Trivandrum,  passed an order which has been produced  beforeus  with  an application for taking it on  the	record.	  Weaccepted the application and both the assessment order, Ext.VIII  dated January 21, 1952, and the appellate order  datedDecember 14, 1953, will be duly considered by us.On  February  12, 1952, the Income-tax	Officer,  Ernakulam,issued four notices to the assessee, two under s. 44 of	 theCochin Act and two under s. 47 of the Travancore Act statingtherein	 that in consequence of definite  information  whichhad  come  into his possession, he had discovered  that	 theincome	of  the assessee assessable to	income-tax  for	 theassessment years 1123 and 1124 M. E. had been under-assessedand the Income-tax Officer, therefore, proposed to re-assessthe  said income; the assessee was asked to submit a  returnin  respect of his total world income, for the two years  inquestion.   On	March  14,  1952,  the	Income-tax  Officer,Kottayam,  issued two similar notices to the assessee  unders.  47	of the Travancore Act stating therein  that  he	 haddiscovered in consequence of definite information which	 hadcome into his possession that the income of the assessee forthe  two  years 1123 and 1124 assessable to  income-tax	 hadeither escaped assessment or had been under-assessed or	 hadbeen assessed at too low a rate and therefore be proposed tore-assess  the	said  income.	Presumably,  the   IncometaxOfficer,  Kottayam, issued the two notices, because  it	 wasdoubtful if the Income-tax Officer, Ernakulam, had authorityto  issue notices to the assessee under the Travancore	Act.Nothing,  however,  turns upon this, so far as	the  appealsbefore us are concerned.On June 16, 1952, the assessee filed a writ petition in	 theHigh  Court of Travancore-Cochin in which he challenged	 thejurisdiction  of the Income-tax Officer, Ernakulam,  to	 re-assess	his  income for the two assessment years,  1123	 and1124  M. E. On the very day on which the assessee filed	 hiswrit  petition, the Incometax Officer, Ernakulam, made an  "escaped income "762assessment under s. 44 of the Cochin Act for the  assessmentyear 1123.  This' order was communicated to the assessee  onJune 17,1952, and the assessee filed a second writ  petitionin,  the High Court TravancoreCochin ion June 19,  1952,  inwhich he again challenged the, jurisdictions of the  Income-tax-Officer,  Erhakulam to make the assessment Linder s.  44of the Cochin Act and further said' that %the assessment wasmade  in  spite of his application for adjournment  'and  an'order	of stay passed by the High Court on June  17,  1952.On June 20, 1952 the assessee filed a third writ petition inthe  Travancore-Cochin	High  Court in respect	of  the	 twonotices	 issued to him by the Income-tax Officer,  Kottayam.By   this   writ  petition  the	 assessee   challenged	 thejurisdiction  of the Income-tax Officer, Kottayam, to  issuethe  two notices; in question under s. 47 of the  TravancoreAct.  ;These  three  writ petitions,  numbered	as  originalpetitions 53, 56 and 57 of 1952, were dealt with together bythe TravancoreCochin High Court and a Bench of three  Judgesof  the	 said High Court held by their	judgment  and  orderdated September 14, 1953, that the, two Income-tax  Officersconcerned  had jurisdiction to re-assess the income  of	 theassessee  for the: two assessment years 1123 and 1124 M.  E.They  accordingly dismissed the writ petitions, but  withoutcosts.	 They,	however, gave a certificate that  the  caseswere fit for appeal to the Supreme Court under Art. 133	 of'the Constitution and on that certificate the three  appeals,which  we have called Travancore-Cochin appeals,  have	beenbrought	 to this Court, from the judgment and order  of	 theHigh Court of Travancore-Cochin dated September 14, 1953.In the High Court three main points were urged on behalf  ofthe  assessee  :  the first point taken was  that  with	 thepassing	 of  the Finance Act, 1950, which  made	 Travancore-Cochin	a  " taxable territory " within the meaning  of	 theIndian	Income-tax Act, 1922, incometax laws  of  Travancoreand Cochin became void and inoperative and Parliament  couldnot,  under  s.	 13,  keep  alive  the	Income-tax  Acts  ofTravancore   and  'Cochin,  or	any,   provisions   thereof,inconsistent with763the   Constitution Section 13 of the Finance Act,  1950,was,therefore, invalid in so   far as it tried to keep alive theCochin	Act or the Travancore Act for the purpose  of  levy,assessment  and	 collection of incometax,  for,	 the  periodreferred to therein.  The second contention was that even ifs. 13 of the Finance Act, 1950,was valid and kept alive	 theprovisions of the Cochin Act and the Travancore Act, it	 didso  only  "  for the purpose of	 the  levy,  assessment	 andcollection  of income-tax and super-tax " in respect of	 theperiod	mentioned in the section, and s. 13(1) did not	havethe,  effect of saving the provisions of the Travancore	 Actor Cochin Act for, the purpose of " re-assessment of income-tax  and  super-tax ". The third contention urged  was	thatneither	 of  the two Income-tax Officers concerned  had	 anydefinite  information in consequence of which they  came  toany  discovery that the income of the assessee for  the	 twoyears  in  question  had been under'  -assessed	 or  escapedassessment  or had been assesed at too low a rate.   It	 wascontended  on behalf of the assessee that the statements  inthe  notices with regard to definite information  etc.	wereonly  " a pretence to clutch at jurisdiction " and the	veryfoundation  of the action sought to be taken by the  Income.tax  Officers under s. 44 of the Cochin Act or s. 47 of	 theTravancore Act was non-existent.  The learned Judges of	 theHigh  Court negatived the aforesaid contentions, and  as  wehave already stated, the writ petitions.Before us the first point urged on behalf of the assessee inthe High Court has not been pressed.  The other two  points,namely, (1) the true construction of s. 13(1) of the FinanceAct,  1950, and (2) tile absence of any foundation  for	 theaction	sought to be taken under s. 44 of the Cochin Act  ors.  47	of the Travancore Act have been pressed	 with  greatvehemence.   A third point which was specifically raised  inthe Mysore appeals in the High Court there and which  arisesin  the	 Travancore-Cochin  appeals  also,  has	 been  taken:before us, though it was not specifically taken in the HighCourt of Travancore-Cochin.  We have allowed learned counselfor the assessee to raise the point, as764it involves a pure question of law.  The point is this.	  Inthe  wake  of  accession and political	integration  of	 theStates and Unions of States with India arose the problem  offederal	 financial integration.	 The States ,and  Unions  ofStates,	 so  long as they continued as separate	 units,	 hadretained  their own pre-existing public finance	 structures.They  had one common feature, distinguishing them  from	 theProvinces  of  India, in that except in respect	 of  certainmatters	 covered  by the Standstill Agreements,	 the  Stateswere free to follow their own policies in matters of federalfinance and taxation, that is to say, in the field of publicfinance,  such	as  customs,  income-tax,  central   excise,railways,  posts and telegraphs etc.  When the	question  ofintegration of these States with India arose, naturally	 thequestion of extinguishing the special rights and obligationsof the States in the field of federal finance and of  makinggood to them the net gap in their revenues also arose.	By aresolution  dated October 22, 1948, the Government of  Indiaappointed a committee of experts, referred to as the  IndianStates	Finances Enquiry Committee, to consider the  problemof  federal  finance.  The Committee's	terms  of  referencewere, inter alia, as follows-"  To  examine and report upon:(1)the present structure of Public Finance in Indian  Statesand Unions of States;(2)the	desirability and feasibility of integrating  Financein Indian States and Unions of States with that of the	restof  India,  to	the end that a	uniform	 system	 of  FederalFinance may be established throughout the Dominion of India;(3)whether,  and if so, the extent to which the	 process  ofintegrating Federal Finance in the Indian States  and Unionswith  that  of the rest of India should be gradual  and	 themanner	in  which  it  should  be  brought  about;  and	 themachinery  required for his purpose, especially	 as  regardsthe   legislative   groundwork	 and   the    administrativeOrganisation  necessary for the imposition,  assessment	 andcollection of federal taxes; ".The Committee submitted a report in due course and765made  certain  recommendations.	  On  the  basis  of   thoserecommendations certain agreements were entered into betweenthe  President of India and the Rajpramukhs,  including	 theRajpramukh  of	Travancore-Cochin  and	the  Rajpramukh	  ofMysore.	 We shall refer in somewhat greater detail to  theseagreements, particularly the agreements entered into by	 theRajpramukhs of Travancore-Cochin and Mysore.  The contentionon behalf of the assessee is that these agreements with PartB  States with regard to certain financial matters  receivedconstitutional sanctity in Art. 278 of the Constitution (nowrepealed by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956).Article	 278, so far as it is relevant for our purpose,	 wasin  these terms"  278 (1).  Notwithstanding anything in  the  Constitution,the  Government of India may, subject to the  provisions  ofclause (2), enter into an agreement with the Government of aState specified in Part B of the First Schedule with respectto-(a)the	levy and collection of any tax or duty	leviable  bythe   Government  of  India  in	 such  State  and  for	 thedistribution  of  the  proceeds thereof	 otherwise  than  inaccordance with the provisions of this Chapter ;(b)............(c)............and, when an agreement is so entered into, the provisions ofthis  Chapter  shall in relation to such State	have  effectsubject	 to  the terms of such agreement." The	argument  onbehalf	of the assessee is that the recommendations  of	 theIndian States Finances Enquiry Committee which were acceptedby  the	 Rajpramukh of Travancore-Cochin  in  the  agreemententered	 into by the Rajpramukh with the President of  Indiaon  February  25,  1950, were designed	to  secure  "  legalcontinuity  of	pending	 proceedings " and  "  finality	 andvalidity  of completed proceedings " under  the	 preexistingState legislation ; therefore, s. 13(1) of the Finance	Act,1950, should be so construed as to be in consonance with theaforesaid agreement, and, in the alternative, if s. 13(1) isconstrued  to  be at variance with the	aforesaid  financialagreement, it should be766held  to be void by reason of the; provisions; of Arts.	 278and 295 of the Constitution.We proceed now to a consideration in detail of the argumentsurged before us on behalf of the assessee in the Travancore-Cochin	appeals.  In logical sequence the point	 as  to	 theabsence	 of  foundation	 for the -action taken	by  the	 twoIncome-tax Officers of Ernakulam and Kottayam in the  matterof the issue, of" notices. for reassessment, comes first andwe  propose  now to deal with it.  It is necessary  at	thisstage to set out the two sections under which the Income-taxOfficers proposed to take action against the assessee.	 Thetwo  sections are s. 44 of the Cochin Act and s. 47  of	 theTravancore Act.	 Section, 44 of the Cochin Act, so far as itis relevant for our purpose, is in these terms-" 44(1) If in consequence of definite information which	 hascome, into his possession the Income-tax Officer  discovers,that income' profits or gains chargeable to income-tax	haveescaped assessment in any year, or have been under-assessed,or  have been assessed at too low a rate, or have  been	 thesubject	 of excessive relief under this Act  the  Income-taxOfficer way, in any case in which he has reason to  believedthat  the  assessee  has concealed the	particulars  of	 hisincome	or  deliberately  furnished  inaccurate	 particularsthereof,  at any time within eight years, and in  any  othercase at any time within four years of the end of  that-year,serve,	on  the	 person liable to pay tax  on  such  income,profits	 or  gains, or, in the case of a.  company,  on	 theprincipal officer thereof, a notice containing all or any ofthe  requirement,  which may be included in a  notice  undersub-section (2) of section 27, and, may proceed to assess orre-assess  such income profits or gains, and the  provisionsof this Act shall so far as may be, apply, accordingly,as ifthe notice were a notice issued under that sub-section."Section 47 (1) of the Travancore Act is identical ill  termsand  need not therefore be, quoted.  It is worthy,  of	notethat the terms of the. aforesaid two sections are similar tos.  34	of, the Indian Income tax Act,	1922,  as  it,.stoodafter the amending Act of 1939 and, before the amendments of1948.  The two requisites conditions767for  the  application of the section are  contained  in	 thefirst  part, and they are: firstly, there must	be  definiteinformation which has come into possession of the Income-taxOfficer	 and, secondly, in consequence of that	information,the  Income-fax Officer discovers that,, income, profits  orgains  chargeable to income-tax have escaped  assessment  inany  year  etc.	 It is only when these	two  conditions	 arefulfilled  that	 the Income-tax Officer can  take  necessaryaction under s. 44.  The question before us is whether thesetwo conditions were fulfilled in the cases out of which	 theTravancoreCochin appeals have arisen.As in the High Court so also before us, the only document onwhich the Income-tax Officers relied for this part of  theircase is Ext.  VIII.  This document, according to the Income-tax   Officers,	 furnished  the	 definite   information	  inconsequence  of	 which they made  the  necessary  discovery.Learned	 counsel for the assessee has taken us through	Ext.VIII,  Ext.   A	 (statement of the  case  submitted  by	 theassessee  to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner)  and	 theorder  of  the Appellate Commissioner,	dated  December	 14,1953,  and  he has contended that (1) Ext.   VIII  does	 notrelate	to  the	 years in question  and	 cannot,  therefore,constitute  definite  information for those  years;  (2)  itgives  certain highly speculative grounds  for	discreditingthe  account books of the assessee, which grounds  have	 notbeen  accepted by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner;	 and(3)  in any view, it contained no information on  which	 theIncome-tax   Officers  could  be  said	to  have  made	 anydiscovery.  As to (1) above, the High Court rightly  pointedout  that Ext.	VIII contained information of a	 kind  whichdisclosed a definite and systematic pattern of	transactionsfor avoidance of tax not only in respect of the year coveredby  the	 order	but  spread  over  years  anterior  to	 it.Secondly, Ext.	VIII disclosed, according to the  Income-taxOfficers concerned, a systematic suppression of cash Bales.,a   regular  trade  in	purchase  and  sale  of	  controlledcommodities  at profiteering rates, passing bogus bills	 forpurchases, understating stocks, segregating stocks98768for clandestine sales, and selling goods to the branches  atartificial book losses.	 There can be no doubt that all thisinformation, if honestly believed, would reasonably  supportthe  opinion  of  the Income-tax Officers that	there  is  adiscovery of " escaped " income etc., within the meaning  ofs.  44	of the Cochin Act and s. 47 of the  Travancore	Act.But  learned counsel for the assessee argues that  while  itmay be right to say that Ext.  VIII prima facie contains thekind of information which will satisfy the conditions of  s.44  of	the Cochin Act and s. 47 of the Travancore  Act,  wemust  take note of the fact that according to the  AppellateAssistant Commissioner, as shown by his order dated December14, 1953, the so-called information contained in Ext.	VIIIwas  really  non-existent, and the  information	 being	non-existent,  there was no foundation for the action  taken  bythe  Income-tax	 Officers.   We are unable  to	accept	thisargument as correct.  Apart from the consideration that	 theorder  of  the	Appellate  Assistant  Commissioner  was	 notavailable when the Income-tax Officers issued their notices,we  think  that the argument overstates the  effect  of	 theorder  of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.	 It is	truethat  the  Appellate Assistant	Commissioner  considered  indetail the various criticisms of the Income-tax Officer withregard	to  the account books along  with  the	explanationsoffered	 on  behalf of the assessee; but  he  expressed	 hisfinal conclusion in the following words:"  I  have  given my careful consideration  to	the  variousadverse	 criticisms  of the Income-tax Officer	and  to	 theAdvocate's  answers  thereto.  I have also looked  into	 theaccounts  and  other  revelant papers.	As a  result,  I  amsatisfied  that the Income-tax Officer's criticisms  are  inmost cases not at all well founded and that the Advocate hassuccessfully  met almost every point raised by	the  former.In fact, the Income-tax Officer himself admitted at the timeof  the	 hearing  that	has order  was	shown  to  be  quitevulnerable.  But he contended that it would not be enough ifthe Advocate merely answered the specific criticisms in	 theorder and that the case should be looked at as a whole and adecision should be arrived at as to whether on such769a  comprehensive  view	the appellant's	 accounts  could  beregarded as completely faultless and worthy of	unquestionedacceptance.  Seen from this broad angle, it cannot of coursebe  said that the accounts are free from defects.  There  isfirstly	 no  stock  book  for  uncontrolled  goods  and	 theaccuracy of the inventories of opening and closing stocks ofsuch goods is therefore open to doubt.	Again, whatever	 maybe  the appellant's reasons for not recording  full  detailsfor  cash  sales, there is the admitted fact that  the	cashsales stand partly unvouched and details as to the names andaddresses of purchasers are not available for the major partof  the	 year,	and there is  therefore	 no  possibility  ofsatisfying  one-self  whether all the cash sales  have	beenduly  brought  to account.  There is also the  further	factthat  at least some of the purchases are not  satisfactorilyvouched and that the rates of gross profit disclosed by	 theaccounts  both at the head office and the branches  are	 notquite  adequate.   These,  in  my  opinion,  are  sufficientgrounds	 for discrediting the book results and resorting  toan estimate of the turnover as well as the gross profit."It  cannot,  therefore,	 be  Raid  that	 the  order  of	 theAppellate  Assistant  Commissioner  washed  out	 the  entireinformation  contained in Ext.	VIII so as to strike at	 thevery  root  of the jurisdiction of the	Income-tax  Officersconcerned  to  issue the notices in question.  It is  to  beremembered  that there is a distinction between	 receipt  ofdefinite  information as a consequence of which a  discoveryis made and a notice is issued, and the final  determinationas  to	the  liability or extent of  liability	for  escapedassessment etc.	 We accept as correct the view expressed  inFirm  Jitanram Nirmalram v. Commissioner of Income-tax	(1),that the phrase " definite information " cannot be construedin a universal sense and its meaning must depend on and varywith  the  circumstances of each case.	There is  no  doubt,however,  that	the information must be definite,  that	 is,more than mere guess, gossip or rumour.	 There must also  bea   causal  connexion  between	the  information   and	 thediscovery; but " discovery " in(1)  A.I.R. 1952 Pat. 163.770the  context  of the section does not mean a  conclusion  ofcertainty at the stage of notice.  What is necessary at thatstage  is that the Income-tax Officer should have formed  anhonest	belief upon materials which reasonably support	suchbelief.	  This,	 in our opinion, is the	 correct  view,	 andjudged	from  that  standpoint,	 Ext.	VIII  fulfilled	 therequirements  of  s. 44 of the Cochin Act and s. 47  of	 theTravancore Act.We now turn to the construction of s. 13 (1) of the  FinanceAct, 1950.  The argument on this point has meandered over  awide  area; but it is really dependent on the meaning to  begiven  to  the	expression for the  purposes  Of  the  levy,assessment  and	 collection of income-tax  and	super-tax  "occurring  in  the  section.   Does  the  word	'assessment'include 're-assessment' ?  The contention of the assessee isthat it does not.  The Travancore-Cochin High Court did	 notaccept	this  contention, but the Mysore High Court  did  infavour of the respondents in the Mysore appeals.The general scheme of the Cochin Act and the Travancore	 Actis the same as that of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922,	 andfor  a clear understanding of the meaning of the  expression'levy, assessment and collection of income-tax', it is	bestto explain the general scheme of these Income-tax Acts	withreference  to the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, which  servedmore or less as their model.Section 3 is the charging section which imposes liability inrespect of " the total income of the previous year of  everyindividual etc.", and 'total income' means the 'total amountof  income,  profits and gains computed in the	manner	laiddown  in the Act'.  It is clear that so far as the  chargingsection	 is concerned, the liability does not  cease  unlessthe  total income, profits and gains have been	computed  inthe  manner  laid down in the Act.  Section 4  states  interalia  that subject to the provisions of the Act,  the  totalincome	of  any	 previous year of any  person  includes	 allincome,	 profits  and gains from  whatever  source  derived.Leaving	  out  the  sections  which  deal  with	  Income-taxauthorities  we come to the sections in Chapter	 111,  whichexplain what is771taxable income under different heads.  Chapter IV deals withdeductions  and assessment, and the words  'assessment'	 andIre-assessment'	 occur in several sections of this  Chapter.Under  s. 22(2) the Incometax Officer must serve  notice  onany person whose total income is in the Income-tax Officer'sopinion of such an amount as to render such person liable toincome-tax,  requiring	him  to	 furnish  a  return  in	 theprescribed  form  of his total income  during  the  previousyear.  Sub-section (4) authorises the Income-tax Officer  toserve on any person upon whom a notice has been served undersub-s.	(2)  a	further	 notice	 requiring  him	 to  produceaccounts  and documents, subject to the limitation  that  heshall not require the production of any accounts relating toa period more than three years prior to the year previous tothe year of assessment.	 Section 23 provides for the  makingof the assessment.  Sub-section (1) requires the  Income-taxOfficer, if he is satisfied that the return made under s. 22is  correct and complete, to assess the total income and  todetermine the sum payable.  Under sub-s. (2) if the  Income-tax  Officer  has  reason  to believe  that  the  return  isincorrect or incomplete he must serve on the person who madethe  return a notice requiring him either to attend  at	 theIncome-tax  Officer's  office  or to  produce  any  evidencerelied	on  in	support	 of  the  return.   Sub-section	 (3)provides  that	the Income-tax Officer, after  hearing	suchevidence  as the person who made the return may produce	 andsuch other evidence as the Income-tax Officer may require onspecified  points  shall by an order in writing	 assess	 thetotal income and determine the sum payable.  Subsection	 (4)makes  provision for an assessment by the Incometax  Officerto the best of his judgment if the assessee fails to make  areturn or to comply with the terms of the notices issued  tohim.   This  whole procedure, it may be recalled,  not	onlyapplies on first assessment but is also prescribed by s.  34if  for	 any reason income, profits or	gains  have  escapedassessment or have been assessed at too low a rate.  Section27   deals  with  cancellation	of  assessment	in   certaincircumstances,	and  states " the Income-tax  Officer  shallcancel the772assessment  and	 proceed  to  make  a  fresh  assessment  inaccordance with the provisions of s. 23 ". Section 29  talksof  a notice of demand to the person liable to pay  the	 taxetc., the notice specifying the sum so payable.	 Section  30gives  a  right of appeal from certain orders.	 Section  31deals  with. hearing of appeals and states inter  alia	thatthe  appellate authority may set aside the  assessment,	 anddirect	the Income-tax Officer to make. a fresh	 assessment.Section	 33 provides for appeals against the orders  of	 theAppellate  Assistant Commissioner and ss. 33A and  33B	givepowers	of  revision to the  Commissioner.   In	 appropriatecases the Commissioner can cancel the assessment and  directa  fresh assessment.  Then comes s. 34 which corresponds  tos. 44 of the Cochin Act and s. 47 of the Travancore Act.  Insubstance it deals with income which has escaped  assessmentfor  one  reason or another and says in the  operative	partthat  the Income-tax Officer " may proceed to assess or	 re-assess	such income, profits or gains etc." There  has	beensome   argument	 before	 us  as	 to  the  meaning   of	 thejuxtaposition of the words " assess or re-assess " occurringin the section, and it has been contended that a distinctionhas  obviously been drawn between income which	has  totallyescaped assessment and income which has been  under-assessedor  assessed at too low a rate etc., and the  word  'assess'appropriately applies to the former case and the word '	 re-assess'	 to the latter case.  Two other sections  which	 arerelevant for our purpose are ss. 66 and 67.  Section 66	 (7)says  that  notwithstanding that a reference has  been	madeunder  this section to the High Court, income-tax  shall  bepayable in accordance with the assessment made in the  case.The   word  'assessment'  here	undoubtedly  includes	're-assessment'.  Section 67 which bars civil suits says that nosuit  shall  be brought in any civil court to set  aside  ormodify	any  assessment	 made under  the  Act.	 Here  again'assessment'  must  include 're-assessment', for  it  cannothave  been  the	 intention that a civil suit  shall  lie  inrespect of a reassessment under s. 34 but not in respect  ofan assessment.This brief resume of the relevant provisons of the773Income-tax Act clearly establishes that the word assessment'has  to be understood in each section with reference to	 thecontext in which it has been used.  In some sections it	 hasa  comprehensive meaning and in some a	somewhat  restrictedmeaning, to be distinguished from a 're-assessment' or	evena 'fresh assessment'.Now, the question is in what sense has the word	 assessment'been  used  in	s.  13(1) of the  Finance  Act,	 1950.	 Twocircumstances may be noticed at once,.	The long title	saysthat the Finance Act, 1950, is an Act to give effect to	 thefinancial  proposals of the Central Government for the	yearbeginning on April 1, 1950, and in s. 13(1) the	 collocationof  words  is " levy, assessment and collection	 of  income-tax".	In  our	 opinion,  both	 these	circumstances  pointtowards a comprehensive meaning; for it could not have	beenintended, as part of the proposal of the Central Government,that  those  whose  income had	totally	 escaped  assessmentshould	be  liable  but those who  had	been  under-assessedshould go soot free.  We can see nothing in the words of thesection which would justify such a distinction: we say	thisquite  apart  from  the argument that  s.  13(1)  should  beinterpreted  in	 consonance  with  the	financial  agreemententered	 into between the Rajpramukh and the  President,  anargument to which we shall presently advert.  Moreover,	 thecollocation of the words, levy, assessment, and	 collection'indicates that what is meant is the entire process by  whichthe tax is ascertained, demanded and realised.On behalf of the assessee it has been contended that (1) theIncome-tax  Act	 makes	a distinction between  a  normal  ororiginal  assessment under s. 23, a fresh -assessment  unders.  27 and a re-assessment or second assessment under s.  34and  (2)  inasmuch as s. 13 (1) uses the word  I  assessmentonly,  it  must be taken to have been used in  a  restrictedsense.	 In support of these contentions great reliance	 hasbeen  placed  on  the  decision	 of  the  Privy	 Council  inCommissioner  of Income-tax, Bombay Presidency and  Aden  v.Khemchand Ramdas (1).  The Mysore High Court also referred(1)(1938) L.R. 65 I.A. 236, 248.774to this decision in support of its view on the	constructionof s. 13 (1).  We are unable to accept these contentions  ascorrect;  nor do we think that the decision  cited  supportsthe  view expressed by the Mysore High Court.  The facts  inKhemchands  case  (1)  were  briefly  these.   The  firm  ofKhemchand applied to the Incometax Officer to have the	firmregistered, the consequence of such registration being	thatthe  profits of the firm would not be assessable  to  super-tax.   On January 17, 1927, the Income-tax Officer  assessedthe  firm  to income-tax for the year 1926-27 under  s.	 23,sub-s.	(4) of the Act; but no super tax was imposed as	 thefirm having applied for registration was registered.  Noticeof  demand  for	 the  amount  assessed	was  made  in  1927.Subsequently,  the Commissioner ordered the cancellation  ofregistration,  and directed the Income-tax Officer  to	takenecessary action thereupon.  On May 4, 1929, the  Income-taxOfficer	 imposed super-tax and issued a notice of demand  inMay,  1929.   The  question in the appeal  was	whether	 theIncome-tax  authorities	 had  any  jurisdiction	 to   assessKhemchand's  firm to super tax for the year 1926-27.   TheirLordships pointed   out that the powers of the	Commissionertinder s. 33   could  only  be	exercised  subject  to	 theprovisions of  the  Act, of which the provisions in  ss.  34and  35	 were important.  They held that  it  was  debatablewhether the circumstances of the case were such as to  bringit  within  s.	34 and so far as s. 35	was  concerned,	 theIncome-tax  Officer was hopelessly barred by time.  In	thatcontext, their Lordships said:"  It is possible that the final assessment may not be	madeuntil  some  years  after  the close  of  the  fiscal  year.Questions  of  difficulty may arise and	 cause	considerabledelay.	Proceedings may be taken by way of appeal and  causefurther delay.	Until all such questions are determined, andall  such proceedings have come to an end, there can  be  nofinal  assessment.   But  when once a  final  assessment  isarrived	 at,  it  cannot, in their  Lordships'	opinion,  bereopened except in the circumstances detailed in ss. 34	 and35  of	the Act (to which reference is made  hereafter)	 andwithin the time(1)[1938] L. R. 65 I. A. 236.775limited	 by  those  sections.	In  the	 present  case	 theliability  of  the respondents both for income-tax  and	 forsuper-tax  wag	determined  by	the  Income-tax	 Officer  onJanuary 17, 1927.  In the order made by him on that date  heassessed the respondents to income-tax at the maximum  rate,but  as the respondents were at that time a registered	firmhe  held, as he was bound to hold, that no super-tax was  tobe  levied.  On some date before the end of March, 1927,  heserved	on  the respondents a notice of demand for  the	 taxthat  he had determined was properly leviable.	The  assess-ment having been made under s. 23, sub-s. (4), no appeal layin  respect  of it.  The assessment of the  respondents	 wastherefore final both in respect of income-tax and super-tax.Their  liability in respect of both taxes had  been  finallydetermined, and none the less because the question of  theirliability  to supertax had been determined in their  favour.It  was, indeed, contended before their Lordships  that	 theassessment  could not be regarded as having been  determinedinasmuch  as  the  Commissioner	 might	at  any	 time,	 andapparently after any lapse of time, however long, cancel theregistration of the respondents as a registered firm and  sosubject	 the  respondents  to liability	 to  pay  super-tax.Their  Lordships  would, in any case, hesitate	long  beforeacceding  to a contention that would lead to so	 extravagantresults.   In their opinion, however, the contention  cannotprevail.  The Commissioner's powers under s. 33 can only  beexercised subject to the provisions of the Act, of which theprovisions  in	ss.  34 and 35 are in this  respect  of	 thegreatest importance."These  observations  lend no support to the  view  that	 theword"  assessment" must always bear a particular meaning  inthe  Income-tax	 Act.	On the contrary, at p.	247  of	 thereport, their Lordships said:" These two questions are so closely related to one  anotherthat they can conveniently be considered together.  In orderto  answer them it is essential to bear in mind	 the  methodprescribed by the Act for making an assessment to tax, usingthe word assessment99776in its comprehensive sense as including the whole  procedurefor  imposing  liability  upon the  tax-payer.	 The  methodconsists,  of the following steps.  In the first place,	 thetaxable income of the tax-payer has to be computed.  In	 thenext  place,  the sum payable by him. on the basis  of	suchcomputation  has  to be determined.  Finally,  a  notice  ofdemand	in  the	 prescribed  form,  specifying	the  sum  sopayable, has to be served upon the tax-payer."If  the	 word ' assessment ' is taken in  its  comprehensivesense,	as we think it should be taken in the context of  s.13(1)  of  the	Finance Act, 1950, it would  include  I	 re-assessment' made under the provisions of the Act.  Such 're-assessment'  will without doubt come within  the  expression'levy,	assessment  and collection of income-tax'.   In	 hisspeech	in Commissioners For General Purposes of  Income-TaxFor  City of London v. Gibbs and Others (1), Lord Simon	 haspointed	 out  that  the word 'assessment'  is  used  in	 theEnglish Incometax Code in more than one sense; and sometimeswithin the bounds of the same section, two separate meaningsof the word may be found.  One meaning is the fixing of	 thesum  taken to represent the actual profit and the other	 theactual sum in tax which the taxpayer is liable to pay.It has been contended before us that the Finance Act and theIncome-tax Act should be read together as forming one  Code,and  so	 read the words I assessment'  and  I  re-assessment'acquire definite and distinct connotations.  We are  unableto agree, for the reasons which we have already given,	thateven  if we read the Finance Act along with  the  Income-taxAct  the  word	'  assessment' can  be	given  a  restrictedmeaning.   To  repeat  those reasons:  the  income-tax	codeitself uses the word assessment in different senses, and  inthe context and collocation of the words of the Finance Act,the word 'assessment' is capable of bearing a  comprehensivemeaning only.  We can find no good. reasons for holding thatin the matter of levy, assessment and collection of  income-tax,  the Finance Act, 1950, contemplated that some  personsshould enjoy a,,(1)[1942] A.C. 402, 406.777privilege and escape payment of the full tax leviable  underthe  provisions	 of  the relevant Act.	 On  this  point  weapprove of the decision in Firm L. Hazari Mal v.  Income-taxOfficer, Ambala (1), where Bhandari C. J., said-"These	 three	 expressions   'levy',	 'assessment'	 and'collection'  are of the widest significance and embrace  intheir  broad  sweep all the  proceedings......	for  raisingmoney by the exercise of the power of taxation........This brings us to the third question.  Is there any thing inthe  financial	agreement  of February	25,  1950,  and	 therecommendations	 of  the  Indian  States  Finances   EnquiryCommittee,   which  would  restrict  the  meaning   of	 theexpression 'levy, assessment and collection of	income-tax'?Or,  in the alternative, bring s. 13(1) of the Finance	Act,1950,	into  conflict	with  Arts.  278  and  295  of	 theConstitution?The relevant portion of the agreement between the  Presidentof  India  and	the  Rajpramukh	 of  TravancoreCochin  datedFebruary 25, 1950, states:" Now, therefore, the President of India and the  Rajpramukhof  Travancore-Cochin,	have  entered  into  the   followingagreement, namely :-The  recommendations of the Indian States  Finances  EnquiryCommitee, 1948-49 (hereinafter referred to as the Committee)contained in Part I of its report read with Chapters, 1,  11and III of Part 11 of its Report, in so far as they apply toTravancore-Cochin  (hereinafter	 referred to as	 the  State)together   with	  the  recommendations	contained   in	 theComittee's  Second  Interim  Report,  are  accepted  by	 theParties hereto, subject to the following modifications."The  modifications  which  follow have	no  bearing  on	 thequestion  at  issue and need not be set out.   Now,  let  usexamine the relevant recommendations of the Committee, whichare accepted by the Parties and form part of the  agreement.These  recommendations	are  summarised in para.  9  of	 theannexure  to Part I of the Committee's report, and  are	 setout below-"Our suggestions concerning certain legal and778other matters of general importance, affecting most  federalsubjects  including  taxes on income), which will  arise  inconnection with federal financial integration in all States,have  been set out in paragraph 11 of Chapter 11 in Part  11of  our	 Report.   Those  relating  to	legal  matters	are,however, re-produced below for convenient reference:-"   (5)	 Apart	from  the  constitutional   requirement	  inconnection  with  the  integration of  federal	finances  inStates-vide  paragraphs	 37  and 40 Part I  of	our  Report-certain	 important  issues of a legal nature will  arise  inconnection  with  the  actual taking over  of  "  federal  "subjects  in the States by the Centre.	This is a  difficultsubject	 upon which we are not qualified to offer  competentadvice.	 We have endeavoured, however, to indicate below themain features of what we conceive will be required in  orderto establish " continuity of proceedings " in regard to	 all"   federal   "	 subjects-whether  relating   to   revenues,expenditure  or	 Service Departments-at the point  of  theirtransition from the States to the Centre;......(a)Almost  every  " federal " subject is dealt with  in	 theState  as  in the rest of India, under powers  conferred  byappropriate legislation consisting of relevant Codes,  Acts,Ordinances and Statutory Rules and Regulations.	 Subject  tothe  limitations  indicated  below,-which  are	designed  tosecure	legal  " continuity " of pending proceedings  and  "finality  and validity " of completed proceedings under	 thepre-existing State legislation-, we think the whole body  ofState legislation relating to " federal " subjects should berepealed  and the corresponding body of Central	 legislationextended proprio vigore to the States, with effect from	 theprescribed  date  or  as  and  when  the  administration  ofparticular " federal " subject is assumed by the Centre.(b)For	the above purpose, as well as for  future  "federal"administration	in States, it may be necessary	specificallyto extend not merely the legislative, but also the executiveand  administrative competence of the Centre,  its  officersand  "	authorities  ", and the judicial  authority  of	 itsCourts, to the territories of the States.779(c)Such	 State	Courts (except Courts of final	appeal	fromorders	of the State High Courts) as may in fact  correspondto particular grades and classes of "British Indian"  Courts(Civil and Criminal) may have to be statutorily " recognised"  as " corresponding judicial authorities " for purpose  ofdealing with cases arising in the States under the " federal" laws of the Union of India; and the Supreme Court in Indiawill  have  to	be  made the  Court  of	 final	appeal	fromdecisions of the State High Courts to the same extent as  inthe case of Provincial High Courts.(d)  Those   sections  of  the	various	 Indian	  Acts	 andOrdinances  which  set	out their territorial  "  extent  ofapplication  " will require amending so as to include  Stateterritories with effect from the prescribed date.(e)It  will  be necessary to provide that  all	matters	 andproceedings   pending	under,	or  arising  out   of,	 thepreexisting  State  Acts shall be disposed  of	under  thoseActs, by so far as may be, the "  corresPonding	 authorities",  (nominated by the Chief Executive Authority)  under	 thecorresponding Indian Acts."In  view  of  the fact that the	 members  of  the  Committeethemselves felt that the legal issues involved in the actualtaking	over  of " federal " subjects in the States  by	 theCentre	constituted a difficult subject on which  they	werenot  qualified to offer competent advice and  their  furtherstatement that they were merely endeavouring to indicate themain  features	of what they considered to  be	required  inorder  to  establish " continuity of proceedings ",  it	 hasbeen   argued  before  us  on  behalf  of   the	  Income-taxauthorities   that   it	 would	be  wrong   to	 treat	 therecomendations	as binding statutory rules, even though	 thefinancial  agreement  between the high	contracting  Partiesstates	generally that the recommendations are accepted;  itis contended that the Committee in express terms states thatthe  recommendations merely endeavour to indicate  the	mainfeatures  of  what the Committee thought was  required,	 andthey should not be placed on a pedestal higher than what theCommittee itself did.  We think that there is much force  inthis  contention;  but in the view which we  have  taken  ofthese780recommendations,  we  do not think that it is  necessary  todecide	finally	 what  constitutional  sanctity	 they	haveacquired  by  reason of their acceptance  in  the  financialagreement   and	  the  provisions  of  Art.   278   of	 theConstitution.  Assuming but without deciding that they	havebinding	 force, what is their true meaning and effect?	 Theargument  on behalf of the assessee is that cl. (a)  of	 therecommendations is the operative clause, and inasmuch as  ittalks  of  "  continuity  of pending  proceedings  "  and  "finality and validity of completed proceedings " tinder	 thepre-existing State legislation, the true effect is that	 allassessment  proceedings	 which	have  become  complete	 andfinance I by the issue of a demand notice under s. 29 of theIndian	Income-tax  Act	 (or corresponding  section  of	 theCochin Act or Travancore Act) are saved under the clause andcannot be reopened; and only proceedings actually pending onthe  relevant  date  can be continued  thereunder.   We	 areunable	to  accept, this as the true meaning and  effect  ofclause	(a).  What is worthy of special notice is  that	 cl.(a)  specifically says that the clauses which follow it	 arethe limitations or qualifications subject to which the wholebody  of State legislation is to be repealed, and  they	 aredesigned   to  secure  two  objects-continuity	of   pendingproceedings   and   finality  and  validity   of   completedproceedings; therefore, cl. (a) is not the operative clause,and  it	 merely indicates the reasons or objects  for  whichcertain	 limitations or qualifications are suggested on	 theproposal  to  repeal the State legislation.  Clause  (a)  isfollowed  by cls. (b), (c), (d) and (e).  Clause  (b)  whichdeals  with  executive	and  administrative  competence	  ofIncometax Officers and judicial authority of Courts need notdetain	us.   So also cls. (c) and (d),	 which	have  littlebearing on the problem before us.  Clause (e) is  important,and  it	 states that " all matters and	proceedings  pendingunder, or arising out of, the pre-existing State Acts  shallbe disposed of under those Acts etc." That a proceeding	 forre-assessment under s. 44, Cochin Act, or s. 47,  TravancoreAct,  is a proceeding arising out of the pre-existing  StateActs admits of no doubt, and is clearly covered by cl.	(e).We see no good grounds781why full effect should not be given to it; it is one of	 thelimitations,  as  stated in cl. (a), subject  to  which	 theState law is to be repealed.  The matter is made still	moreclear  by what is stated in the paragraph  that	 immediatelyfollows, viz. paragraph 10 of the annexure to the report  ofthe Committee.	That paragraph states-"  The	recommendation made in the  last  two  subparagraphsquoted	above  should be understood as	requiring  that	 allincome, profits and gains accruing or arising in States,  ofall  periods  which are " previous years "  of	the  States'assessment  years 1949-50 or earlier should, subject to	 theprovisions of section 14(2)(c) of the Indian Income-tax Act,be  assessed wholly in accordance with the States' laws	 andat  the	 States'  rates, respectively,	appropriate  to	 theassessment years concerned etc."really	no doubt left in the matter.  The Committee did	 notrestrict   the	limitations  they  were	 suggesting,  to   aproceeding which was actually pending on the date of  repealof  the	 State	law;  it gave a	 wider	meaning	 to  pendingproceedings-that is, "proceedings pending under and  arisingout of the preexisting State Acts".  It is to be  rememberedthat where an assessment starts with a notice under s. 34 ofthe  Indian Income-tax Act (or corresponding section of	 theCochin	or Travancore Act), all the relevant  provisions  ofthat Act apply as effectively as where the assessment startswith  a notice under s. 22 (2)-or corresponding	 section  ofthe Cochin or Travancore Act-in the ordinary course.  It  isalso  not disputed that the assessment made under s.  34  inany year subsequent to the relevant assessment year must  bemade as if it were made in the relevant assessment year, andthe assessment must be based on the provisions of the Act asit stood in the year in which the income ought to have	beenassessed.  Having regard to these considerations, we find nodifficulty in holding that a re-assessment proceeding  unders. 44, Cochin Act, or s. 47, Travancore Act, is a proceedingwhich comes under cl. (e) of the recommendations of the782Committee,  and	 must be disposed of under  the	 preexistingState  law.  Section 13 (1) of the Finance Act, 1950,  giveseffect to that recommendation.	There is, therefore, nothingin  the recommendations which would restrict the meaning  ofthe expression " levy, assessment and collection of  income-tax " in s. 13 (1) of the Finance Act; nor do they bring  s.13  (1)	 into  conflict	 with  Arts.  278  and	295  of	 theConstitution.We accordingly hold that there is no substance in any of thethree  points  urged  on  behalf  of  the  assessee  in	 theTravancore-Cochin appeals.Mysore Appeals.These are eight appeals and the relevant facts are these.Civil  Appeals	27  to 30 of 1956 arise	 out  of  four	writpetitions  numbered  52 and 53 of 1953, and 105 and  106  of1954,  which  were dealt with together in  the	Mysore	HighCourt  by a common judgment dated December 14, 1954.   CivilAppeals	 161  to 164 also arise out of four  writ  petitions(no.  122  of 1954 and nos. 35 to 37 of 1955) filed  in	 thesame High Court.  The orders passed in those writ  petitionswere that they were governed by the aforesaid decision dated-December  14, 1954. ln the result, all the  writ  petitionswere allowed with costs.In  all	 these cases the petitioners,  who  are	 respondentsbefore	us,  were assessed to income-tax  under	 the  MysoreIncome-tax Act, 1923 (hereinafter called the Mysore Act) fordifferent  years previous to the integration of Mysore	withIndia,	and  the assessment proceedings were  completed	 andclosed under the Mysore Act by demand notices issued by	 theIncome-tax  Officers  concerned.   But	subsequent  to	 theintegration of Mysore, notices under s. 34 of the Mysore Actwere issued against the petitioners, and they challenged thejurisdiction  of  the  Income-tax  Officers  to	 issue	suchnotices.  Section 34 of the Mysore Act states-" If for any reason, income, profits or gains chargeable  toincome-tax  has escaped assessment in any year, or has	beenassessed  at too low a rate, the Income-tax Officer  may  atany time within four years of the end of that year, serve onthe person liable to783pay tax on such income, profits or gains, or in the case  ofa  company,  on the principal officer thereof,	a  notice  Icontaining  all	 or  any of the requirements  which  may  beincluded  in a notice under sub-section 2 of s. 22, and	 mayproceed	 to  assess, or re-assess such	income,	 profits  orgains,	and provisions of this Act shall, so far as may	 be,apply  accordingly  as if the notice were  a  notice  issuedunder that sub-section:Provided that the tax shall be charged at the rate at  whichit  would  have	 been charged, had the	income,	 profits  orgains,	not escaped assessment, or full assessment,  as	 thecase may be."It  corresponds to s. 34 of the Indian Income-tax Act as  itstood  prior  to the amending Act of 1939  and	the  generalscheme of the Mysore Act was the same as that of the  IndianIncome-tax Act, 1922, as it stood before 1939.The two grounds on which the jurisdiction of the  Income-taxOfficers was challenged were-(1)  Under  the	 Finance  Act, 1950, the  Mysore  Act  stoodrepealed  on  and from April 1, 1950, and s. 13 (1)  of	 theFinance	 Act  kept alive the Mysore Act for the	 purpose  oflevy;  assessment and collection of incometax etc.  for	 theperiod	mentioned  therein, but did not save s.	 34  of	 theMysore	Act for the purpose of reassessment  of	 income-tax;therefore, the notices issued under s. 34 of the Mysore	 Actwere without jurisdiction and authority.(2)  Even  otherwise,  the financial agreement	between	 thePresident of India and the Rajpramukh of Mysore on  February28, 1950, which received constitutional sanctity in Art. 278of  the	 Constitution rendered the initiation  of  such	 re-assessment     proceedings    against	 the	 respondentsunconstitutional and void.The  learned Chief Justice of the Mysore High  Court  upheldground no. (1) and considered it unnecessary to pronounce onthe second ground.  Mallapa J., in a separate but concurringjudgment  expressed  the  view that  having  regard  to	 thewording of s. 13 (1) of Finance Act, 1950, and the financialagreement  of February 28, 1950, he had no doubt that s.  13(1) did100784not provide for re-assessment under s. 34 of the Mysore Act.The process of integration of Mysore with India was  similarto.  that  of  Travancore-Cochin.   The	 State	of  ,.Mysoreacceded	 to  the  Dominion  of India  by  an  Instrument  ofAccession  executed on August 9, 1947, and accepted  by	 theGovernor-General  on  August  16,  1947.   A   supplementaryInstrument of Accession was executed on June 1, 1949.  By  aProclamation  dated November 25, 1949, the  Constitution  ofIndia to be adopted by the Constituent Assembly of India wasaccepted for Mysore, and on January 26,1950, Mysore became aPart  B State within the Constitution of India.	  A  similarfinancial agreement was entered into by the Rajpramukh	withthe  President of India on February 28, 1950.  On  April  1,1950,  the Finance Act, 1950, applied the Indian  Income-taxAct,  1922,  to Mysore, subject to the provisions of  s.  13thereof.In dealing with the Travancore-Cochin appeals, we have fullydealt with the two grounds on which the respondent assesseesin  the	 Mysore appeals challenged the jurisdiction  of	 theIncome-tax Officers concerned to issue the notices under. s.34  of	The  Mysore Act.  Two  additional  points  urged  insupport	 of ground no. (1) maybe stated here.  It  has	beenurged that the proviso to s. 34 of the Mysore Act brings outthe  distinction between I assessment ' and '  re-assessment'; and secondly, it is contended that the jurisdiction unders.  34	is  limited to ascertainment  of  extra	 income	 notassessed  and  the section does not confer  jurisdiction  tomake a new assessment, for taxing whole of that	 assessment,under  the  Act.   Learned counsel  for	 the  assessees	 hasinvited	 our  attention	 to  In re  Kashi  Nath	 Bagla	(1);Madhavjee Damodar Thackersay and Another v. Commissioner  ofIncome Tax, BOMBAY(2) and Anglo-French Textile Co. Ltd. v.Commissioner of Income Tax, Madras, No. 4 (3).The  real question    for decision in these appeals  is	 thetrue  scope and effect of s. 13 (1) of the Finance Act,	 andon that question the additional points' mentioned(1) A. 1. R. 1932 All. 1.	 (2) [1935] 3 I.T. R. 457.		(3) [1950] 18 1. T. R. 106.785above  throw  very little light.  There is, indeed,  a	dis-tinction  between an original or normal assessment under  s.23 and a re-assessment under s. 34; but we' have shown	thatthe word " assessment " has been used in more than one sensein  Income-tax law, and( so far as s. 13 (1) of the  FinanceAct,  1950,  is	 concerned,  there  is	no  doubt  that	 theexpression I levy, assessment and collection of	 income-tax'has been used in a comprehensive sense so as to include	 thewhole procedure for imposing liability upon the taxpayer.Result :The  final  result, therefore, is-(a)  the  TravancoreCochinappeals	 (Civil	 Appeals 143 to 145 of 1954)  are  dismissedwith costs; and (b) the Mysore appeals (Civil Appeals 27  to30 of 1956 and Civil Appeals 161 to 164 of 1956) are allowedand the judgment and orders of the Mysore High Court are setaside.	 The  appellants  in these Mysore  appeals  will  beentitled to their costs in this Court and the High Court  ofMysore.Appeals Nos. 143 to 145 dismissed.Appeals No. 27 to 30 and 161 to 164 allowed.