PETITIONER:M/S.  CHANDAJI KUBAJI & CO.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH.DATE OF JUDGMENT:29/04/1960BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.KAPUR, J.L.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1960 AIR  990ACT:Review-Grounds	for-Whether allowable on Party's  own  deli-berate	negligence and intentional withholding	of  evidenceMadras	General Sales Tax Act, 1939 (Mad.  Act IX Of  1939),s. 12A(6) (a).HEADNOTE:The appellant company was a dealer in ghee and groundnut oiletc.  The Deputy Commercial Tax Officer assessed it to salestax for the year 1948-49 on a turnover of Rs. 28,69,151	 andodd.   Similarly  for  the year 1949-50	 the  appellant	 wasassessed  to  sales tax on a turnover of Rs.  28,72,o83	 andodd.   The  appellant challenged these assessments  and	 itsappeal	before the Commercial Tax Officer having failed	 thetwo  matters came up in second appeal before the  Sales	 TaxAppellate  Tribunal.  In the Tribunal the appellant did	 notplace  any materials in support of its contentions  and	 thetwo  appeals were disposed of by the Tribunal  holding	thatthe  appellant	was  correctly assessed to  sales  tax.	  Inrespect	 of  the  aforesaid  orders  of	 the  Tribunal	 theappellant  filed applications for review under S.  12A(6)(a)of  the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939 (Mad.  Act IX  Of1939), taking the plea that in the first case the  materialscould not be placed before the Tribunal as there was none toinstruct the appellant's advocate in English or Telegu,	 andin the second case the relevant correspondence was mixed  upwith other records.  The Tribunal rejected the	applicationsfor  review  on	 the ground that a failure  to	produce	 thenecessary  materials in support of a plea taken	 before	 it,due  either to gross negligence or  deliberate	withholding,did  not come within the reason of s. 12A(6)(a) of the	Act.The  High  Court upheld the decision of	 the  Tribunal.	  Onappeal by special leave in one case and a certificate of theHigh Court in the other:Held,  that  the  provision in s. 12A(6)(a)  of	 the  MadrasGeneral Sales Tax Act, 1939 (Mad.  Act IX Of 1939),  permitsa  review when through some oversight, mistake or error	 thenecessary  facts,  basic or evidentiary,  were	not  presentbefore	the  Court  when it passed the order  sought  to  bereviewed, but a party was not805entitled  to  ask for a review when it had  deliberately  orintentionally  withheld evidence in support of a claim	madeby it.State  of  Andhra  v. Sri Arisetty  Sriyamulu,	A.I.R.	1057Andhra Pradesh 130, not approved.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 420 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedAugust	8,  1955,  of the former Andhra High  Court  in	 TaxRevision Case No. 2 of 1955.			    WITH	       Civil Appeal No. 142 of 1958.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated July 28, 1955,  ofthe former Andhra High Court in T.R.C. No. 32 of 1954.N.Rajeswara  Rao and Sardar Bahadur, for the appellants	 (inboth the appeals).T.V. R. Tatachari and T. M. Sen, for the respondent (in boththe appeals).1960.  April 29.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byS.K. DAS, J.-These two appeals, one with special leave	fromthis  Court  and the other on a certificate granted  by	 theHigh  Court  of Andhra, have been heard	 together  and	thisjudgment will govern them both.The facts are similar and the short question for decision iswhether the appellant, Messrs.	Chandaji Kubaji and Company,Guntur,	 was  entitled to apply under s.  12A(6)(a)  of	 theMadras General Sales Tax Act, 1939 (Madras Act IX of  1939),as  applied  to	 Andhra, for a review of  an  order  of	 theAppellate  Tribunal made under suchs. (4) of s. 12A  of	 thesaid Act.  The relevant facts are these.  The appellant is adealer	in  ghee,  groundnut oil, chillies,  etc.,  and	 wascarrying on its business at Guntur.  In Civil Appeal No. 420of 1957, the Deputy Commercial Tax Officer, Guntur, assessedthe  appellant	to  sales  tax for the	year  1948-49  on  aturnover  of  Rs. 28,69,151 and odd.  The  appellant  havingunsuccessfully	appealed  to  the  Commercial  Tax  Officer,Guntur,	 made  a second appeal to the  Sales  Tax  AppellateTribunal, hereinafter called105806the  Tribunal.	Before the Tribunal the appellant  contendedinter  alia  that  out of the total turnover a	sum  of	 Rs.10,45,156   and	 odd  related  to  commission  purchase	  ofcommodities  taxable  at  the stage of	sale  on  behalf  ofprincipals resident outside the State of Andhra and was	 nottherefore  taxable by the respondent State.  In	 respect  ofthis plea the Tribunal said:"  As regards the alleged commission agency business to	 thetune  of  Rs.  10,45,156-4-9  the  appellants  have  neitheradvanced  arguments  nor placed before us any  materials  insupport of the contention raised in this behalf ".In  the result the Tribunal dismissed the appeal on May	 30,1953.In  Civil Appeal No. 142 of 1958 the appellant was  assessedby  the	 Deputy	 Commercial Tax Officer, Guntur,  on  a	 netturnover of Rs. 28,72,083 and odd for the year 1949-50.	 Theappellant  objected  to	 the  inclusion	 of  a	sum  of	 Rs.19,89,076  and	odd on the ground that	the  goods  relatingthereto bad been consigned to self and despatched to  placesoutside	 the  state and in fact were delivered	outside	 theState.	 "this plea was disallowed by the Sales	 Tax  autho-rities, and the Tribunal said" In the grounds of appeal it has been urged with regard  tothese sale transactions the ownership in the goods continuedto  vest in the appellant till the sale price was  collectedand the goods were delivered to the buyers at places outsidethe  State.  Beyond advancing a broad argument of this	typeno  material has been placed before us or was placed  beforethe  assessing	authority or the Commercial Tax	 Officer  tosupport	 the  appellant's version that the property  in	 thegoods passed to the buyer only at places outside the State".x		    x		       xIt  is not denied that though contracts in writing were	 notentered	  into,	 these	transactions  were  the	 result	  ofcorrespondence	between	 the appellant on the  one  hand  asseller	and various persons on the other as buyers.   It  isconceded that such correspondence exists but the  appellantshave not chosen807to make this correspondence available either to us or to theofficer	 below.	  When documents which would  establish	 thenature	of  the transaction beyond doubt are  available	 andhave  been withheld by the appellant, the normal  result  isthat an inference adverse to his contention has to be drawn.We  are	 accordingly of the opinion that in this  case,	 thesales  must be deemed to have taken place within this  Stateand  that  they have been rightly included  in	the  taxableturnover ".The  appeal  was  disposed  of on  this	 finding  on  August19,1952.In respect of both the aforesaid orders the appellant  filedapplications for review under s. 12A(6)(a) of the Act.	Thatsection,  in  so far as it is relevant	for  these  appeals,reads:"  12A(6)(a)-The Appellate Tribunal may, on the	 applicationeither of the assessee or of the Deputy Commissioner, reviewany order passed by it under sub-section (4) on the basis offacts which were not before it when it passed the order:Provided  that no such application shall be  preferred	morethan once in respect of the same order ".The point taken on behalf of the appellant in Civil  Appeal-No.  420  of  1957 was that the	 accounts  were	 in  Gujratilanguage  and as there was none on behalf of  the  appellantwho  could  give instructions to  the  appellant's  advocateeither in Telugu or English when the appeal was heard by theTribunal, the appellant could hot place the materials beforethe  Tribunal.	 In  the other appeal, the  point  taken  insupport of the application for review was that the  relevantcorrespondence	was  mixed up with other records and  so  itcould  not  be	placed before the  Tribunal.   The  Tribunalrejected  the applications for review on the ground  that  afailure	 to produce the necessary materials in support of  aplea  taken  before it, due either to  gross  negligence  ordeliberate withholding, did not come within the reason of s.12A(6)(a)  as  stated in the expression " on  the  basis  offacts  which were not before it when it passed the order  ".The appellant then moved the High Court in revision under s.12B of the Act and808contended   that  the  view  which  the	 Tribunal  took	  ofs.12A(6)(a)  was  not  correct.	  The  High  Court  drew   adistinction between what it called basic facts and  evidencein support thereof and said:"  There is an essential distinction between a fact and	 theevidence to establish that factx	  x	      xSection	 12A(6)(a) in our view is not intended to  give	 twoopportunities to every assessee to establish his case beforea  Tribunal.  It is really conceived in the interests  of  ;the  assessee, who was not able to place some  facts  beforethe  Tribunal at the first instance which would have made  adifference in its decision ".In  the view which the High Court took of s.  12A(6)(a),  itheld that the applications for review were rightly rejected.In the two appeals before us the argument has been that	 theTribunal  as also the High Court took an erroneous  view  ofthe true scope and effect of s. 12A (6)(a) of the Act.	 Ourattention has been drawn to a Subsequent Full Bench decisionof  the	 same  High  Court in The State	 of  Andhra  v.	 SriArisetty  Sriramulu (1) and it has been submitted  that	 theview  expressed	 therein  is  the  correct  view.   In	thatdecision,  it  was  held  that the word	 "  facts  "  in  s.12A(6)(a)  may	be taken to have been used in the  sense  inwhich it is used in the law of evidence, that is to say,  asincluding  the factum probandum or the principal fact to  beproved and the factum probans or the evidentiary facts	fromwhich	the  principal	fact  follows  immediately   or	  byinference;  facts may be either ,facts in issue " which	 arethe principal matters in dispute or relevant facts which areevidentiary  and  which directly or by inference,  prove  ordisprove the " facts in issue ".In the view which we have taken of these two appeals, it  isnot  necessary	to discuss at great   length  the  divergentviews taken in the High Court of Andhra as to the true scopeand  effect  of s. 12A(6)(a) of the Act.  A  Division  Benchexpressed  the	view that facts " in the  sub-section  meantbasic facts, that is,(1)  A.I.R. 1957 Andhra Pradesh 130.809facts  necessary to sustain a claim, and drew a	 distinctionbetween	 such facts and the evidence required  to  establishthem; it further expressed the view that under s.  12A(6)(a)the Tribunal may review its order if any of the basic  factswere not present before it when it passed the order, but thesub-section was not meant to give a second opportunity to  aparty  to  produce fresh evidence.  The Full  Bench  took  awider  view of the sub-section and said that facts  referredto  in	the  sub-section  might be "facts  in  issue"  or  "evidentiary  facts ". We think that in an  appropriate	caseevidentiary  facts may be so interlinked with the  facts  inissue  that  they may also fall within the  purview  of	 thesubsection.   The Full Bench, however, went a  step  furtherand  said  that	 even if  relevant  evidentiary	 facts	wereintentionally  or deliberately withheld or  suppressed,	 theparty guilty of such suppression or withholding would  stillbe entitled to ask for a review under s. 12A(6)(a).  We	 saythis  with  great respect, but this is	precisely  what	 thesection does not permit.  The Full Bench said:"  The language of section 12A(6)(a) is so wide and  generalthat it might possibly lead to inconvenient results in	thatit  might  enable  an assessee to get a	 further  chance  ofhearing	 before	 the Appellate Tribunal on the	strength  ofevidence  which	 he  negligently  or  designedly  failed  toproduce	 at  the first ,hearing.  As the  language  used  insection	 12A(6)(a)  is	clear and unequivocal  and,  in	 ouropinion, capable only of one interpretation, we are bound togive effect to it in spite of the possibility of any  incon-venience resulting therefrom.  The inconvenience, if any, isnot  to	 the  assessee for whose benefit  the  provision  isintended.  In any case, the remedy is with the Legislature".It  is,	 we think, doing great violence to language  to	 saythat an intentional or deliberate withholding or suppressionof  evidence in support of a plea or contention or  a  basicfact  urged before the Tribunal, is comprehended within	 theexpression " facts which were not before it (Tribunal)	whenit passed the order ". To so construe the section is to	 puta premium810on deliberate negligence and fraud and amounts to allowing aparty  to profit from its own wrong.  We do not	 think	thatsuch a construction follows from the language used, which ismore  consistent  with	the view that the  provision  in  s.12A(6)(a)  permits  a review when  through  some  oversight,mistake or error the necessary facts, basic or	evidentiary,were  not present before the Court when it passed the  ordersought	to be reviewed.	 It is entirely wrong to think	thatthe subsection permits a party to play hide and seek with  ajudicial  Tribunal; that is to say to raise a fact in  issueor  evidentiary fact as a plea in support of a claim and  atthe same time deliberately withhold the evidence in  supportthereof.   Such a situation cannot be said to be one  withinthe meaning of the expression " facts not present before theTribunal ".In  the appeals before us there was intentional	 withholdingor suppression of evidence.  In the case, the materials werenot  produced on the plea that they were written in  Gujratiand  nobody was available to instruct counsel in English  orTelugu	and in the other, on an equally specious  plea	thatthe correspondence was mixed up with other records for abouttwo  years.   These two appeals can be disposed of  on	thisshort ground that the appellant was not entitled to ask	 forreview	under s. 12A(6)(a) by reason of his  own  deliberatenegligence and intentional withholding of evidence.We  see	 no  merit in these appeals and	 dismiss  them	withcosts.				     Appeals dismissed.