PETITIONER:SHRIMANT DATTAJI RAOBAHIROJIRAO GHORPADE	Vs.RESPONDENT:SHRIMANT VIJAYASINHRAO AND ANOTHER.DATE OF JUDGMENT:29/04/1960BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1272ACT:Saranjam Estate-Maintenance grant to junior member-Power  ofGovernment   to	  resume  and  re-grant-Custom	 of   linealprimogeniture,	 extent	 and  effect   of-Suit	 challengingGovernment  order  of  resumption  and	re-grant-If  barred-Saranjam  Rules-Bombay Revenue jurisdiction Act, 1876  (Bom.X of 1876), s. 4.HEADNOTE:Upon  the  death of the holder in 1932,	 the  Government  ofBombay	by  order dated June 7, 1932, resumed  the  Saranjamestate of Gajendragad and re-granted the same to his  eldestson.  By the same order the assignment of some lands out  ofthe  estate in favour of B, a younger member of the  family,by way of maintenance was also continued.  On May 14,  1940,B died leaving his widow, A, and his undivided brother, D. Aasked  the  Government	for permission to adopt	 a  son	 butwithout	 the permission being granted adopted V on July	 10,1941.	By an order dated December 17, 1941, the  Governmentcontinued  the	maintenance  grant (Saranjam  potgi)  to  D.Thereupon V filed a suit against the	Government and D forrecovery of the lands on the grounds (i)     that the  orderof the Government dated December 17, 1941, was ultra  vires,null  and  void,  and  (ii) that by  the  custom  of  linealprimogeniture which prevailed in the family the lands,	uponthe  death  of B and upon the adoption of V by	A,  devolvedupon  V	 in preference to D. The suit was  contested,  interalia,  on the grounds: (i) that under the relevant  SaranjamRules the interest of B came to an end on his death and	 wasnot  such  as could devolve upon V despite the	order  datedDecember  17, 1941, (ii) that the alleged family custom	 didnot apply to maintenance grants and (iii) that the suit	 wasbarred	under s. 4 Of the Bombay Revenue  jurisdiction	Act,1876:Held,  that  the  plaintiff was not entitled  to  the  landseither under the Saranjam Rules or under the custom; furtherthat  the  suit	 was barred by $- 4 of	the  Bombay  Revenuejurisdiction Act, 1876.103790The  maintenance  grant	 (potgi holding)  was  part  of	 theSaranjam  and  was  governed by the  incidents	of  Saranjamtenure	and by the relevant Saranjam Rules.  Saranjam grantswere  granted  or withheld at the will and pleasure  of	 thesovereign  power  and  the  grant  was	always	subject	  tointerruption  and  revocation by  resumption,  temporary  orabsolute.   On the death of B it was open to the  Governmentto resume the grant and to grant it to D and this is what itdid  by	 the order dated December 17, 1941.  The  taking  inadoption of the plaintiff by the widow of the deceased couldnot  affect  the  operation  of	 the  order  passed  by	 theGovernment.Daulatrao  Malojiyao  v. Province of Bombay (1946)  49	Bom.L.R. 270, referred to.Even under the custom of lineal primogeniture pleaded by theplaintiff,  D was entitled to get the properties  after	 thedeath  of B. It was not pleaded that the properties once  sovested	were divested by subsequent adoption by	 the  widow.Further	 it was neither pleaded nor proved that	 the  customtook  away  the	 right	of  the	 Government  to	 resume	 themaintenance grant and to make a fresh grant thereof.Sub-clause  4 of the Bombay Revenue jurisdiction Act,  1876,barred	the  jurisdiction of civil courts in  respect  of  "claims	against the Government relating to lands granted  orheld  as Saranjam".  The plaintiff asked for a finding	thatthe  order of December 17, 1941, was null and void  and	 didnot affect the properties in suit.  Unless the order was outof his way, the plaintiff was not entitled to claim recoveryof  possession.	  The claim was one which  fell	 within	 themischief of s. 4 and the suit was barred.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 37 of 1960.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated November 12, 1952,of  the Bombay High Court in First Appeal No. 492  of  1949,arising out of the judgment and decree dated the 20th April,1949,  of  the First Class Sub-Judge,  Dharwar,	 in  SpecialCivil Suit No. 16 of 1943.S.   N.	 Andley, J. B. Dadachanji, Rameshwar Nath and P.  L.Vohra, for the appellant.Naunit Lal, for respondent No. 1.B. R. L. Iyengar and T. M. Sen, for respondent No. 2.1960.  April 29.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byS.   K. DAS, J.-This is an appeal on a certificate given  bythe  High Court of Bombay, from the judgment and  decree  ofthe said High Court dated791November 12, 1952, by which it reversed the decision of	 theCivil  Judge,  First Class, at Dharwar	dated-,,  April	 20,1949, in Special Civil Suit No. 16 of 1943.The  material facts are these.	Gajendragad in Taluk Ron  inthe  district of Dharwar is a Saranjam estate known  as	 theGajendragad Saranjam bearing number 91 in the Saranjam	listmaintained  by Government.  Within that estate	lay  villageDindur and survey field No. 302 of Unachgeri, which are	 theproperties in suit.  One Bhujangarao Daulatrao Ghorpade	 wasthe holder of the Saranjam estate at the relevant time.	  In1932  the  Saranjam was resumed and re-granted to  the	saidBhunjangarao  by Resolution No. 8969 dated June 7, 1932,  ofthe Government of Bombay in the Political Department.	ThisResolution said:"  The	Governor in Council is pleased to  direct  that	 theGajendragad  Saranjam  should be formally  resumed  and	 re-granted to Bhujangarao Daulatrao Ghorpade, the eldest son ofthe deceased Saranjamdar Daulatrao Bhujangarao Ghorpade, andthat  it should be entered in his sole name in the  accountsof the Collector of Dharwar with effect from the date of thedeath  of the last holder.  The Collector should take  stepsto  place the Saranjamdar in possession of the	villages  ofthe Saranjam estate which were in possession of the deceasedSaranjamdar.The  Governor  in  Council  agrees  with  the  Commissioner,Southern   Division,  that  the	 assignments  held  by	 theBhaubands as potgi holders should be continued to them as atpresent."One  of	 the  younger branches of the  Ghorpade	 family	 wasBabasaheb   Bahirojirao	  Ghorpade,  to	  be   referred	  tohereinafter as Babasaheb.  He held by way of maintenance (aspotgi  holder)	the aforesaid village of Dindur	 and  surveyfield  No.  302 of Unachgeri.  He had an  undivided  brothercalled	Dattojirao, who was defendant No. 2 in the suit	 andis appellant before us.	 In this judgment we shall call	 himthe  appellant.	  Babasaheb died on May 14,  1940.   On	 hisdeath he left a widow named Abayabai and the appellant,	 hisundivided  brother.   On  July 10,  1941,  Abayabai  adoptedVijayasinhrao	as   a,	 son  to   her	 deceased   husband.Vijayasinha was the plaintiff who brought the suit'792and is now the principal respondent before us.	It will	  beconvenient  if	we call him  the  plaintiff-respondent,	 andstate  here  that he was the natural  son  of  Bhujaugarao'syounger brother, another Dattajirao to be distinguished fromthe appellant who also bears the same name.  On	 Babasaheb'sdeath  Abayabai	 asked	for sanction of	 Government  to	 hertaking	a boy in adoption; this application was	 opposed  bythe  appellant.	  On December 17, 1941,	 the  Government  ofBombay passed a Resolution in the following terms:" 1. Government is pleased to direct that the Saranjam potgiholding	 of village Dindur and Survey No. 302 of  Unacbgeri,which	were  assigned	for  maintenance  to  the   deceasedpotgidar, Mr. Babasaheb Bahirajirao Ghorpade, at the time ofthe   re-grant	of  the	 Gajendragad  Saranjam,	 should	  becontinued   to	 his  undivided	 brother,   Mr.	  DattajiraoBabirojirao Ghorpade.2.Government is also pleased to direct, under Rule 7 of	 theSaranjam  Rules,  that	the  new  potgidar,  Mr.  DattajiraoBahirojirao  Gborpade, should give to Bai Abaibai, widow  ofthe  deceased Potgidar, Mr. Babasaheb Bahirojirao  Ghorpade,an annual maintenance allowance of Rs. 300 for her life.3.These	 orders should take effect from the 14th May,  1940,i.e.,  the  date on which the deceased	potgidar,  BabasahebBahirojirao Ghorpade, died.4.The Commissioner S. D. should be requested to	 communicatethese  orders  to Bai Abaibai, widow of the  late  potgidar,with reference to her petitions addressed to him and also tothe  Rayats  of Dindur, with reference	to  their  petition,dated  the  12th  May,	1941.  The  orders  should  also  becommunicated to the present Saranjamdar of Gajendragad."On  February 8, 1943, the plaintiff-respondent	brought	 thesuit against the Province of Bombay as defendant No. 1,	 theappellant  as defendant No. 2 and Abayabai as defendant	 No.3.  The	 suit was contested by the Province of	Bombay	(nowsubstituted  by	 the  State of Bombay)	and  the  appellant.Abayabai supported the case of the plaintiff-respondent, butshe died during. the Pendency of the suit.793The  claim  of	the plaintiff-respondent  was  that  on	 hisadoption the estate of his deceased adoptive father devolvedon him by the, rule of lineal primogeniture in preference tothe  appellant.	 The main plea of  the	plaintiff-respondentwas  stated  in	 paragraph 6 of the plaint,  which  read  asfollows:" 6. The Government Resolution passed by defendant No. 1  in1941  is  ultra vires and null and void	 for  the  followingreasons:(a)Defendant No. 1 made a re-grant of the Saranjam estate toShrimant  Sardar Bhujaragarao Ghorpade in 1932	and  thereinthe  suit  properties were, according to  defendant  No.  1,continued  to  the adoptive father of  plaintiff  Under	 theSaranjam  rules no occasion has arisen for  interference  byGovernment  at this stage.  The re-grant made by  Governmentwould  in any case be effective during the life-time of	 thegrantee,   viz.,  Shrimant  Sardar   Bhujangarao   Ghorpade.Further	 the said Shrimant Sardar Bhujangarao  Ghorpade	 wasnot consulted by defendant No. 1 before the said  GovernmentResolution.(b)By the custom of the family to which the family  belongs,the  estate  of a deceased person devolves by  the  rule  oflineal primogeniture.  Hence after the death of	 plaintiff'sadoptive  father and the adoption of plaintiff himself,	 allthe  estate  vested  in	 plaintiff's  adoptive	father	 hasdevolved on the plaintiff in preference to defendant No.  2.The  action  of	 defendant No. 1 in ignoring  this  rule  ofsuccession  prevalent in the family is ultra vires and	nulland void."On the aforesaid pleas, the plaintiff-respondent prayed	 for(a)  recovery of possession of properties in suit  from	 theappellant, (b) mesne profits, and (c) costs.On behalf of the Province of Bombay several pleas by way  ofdefence	 were taken.  The main pleas were (1) assuming	thatthe   plaintiff-respondent  was	 validly  adopted,  he	 hadnevertheless  no  legal	 claim to  the	properties  in	suitbecause	 under the relevant Saranjam Rules the	interest  ofBabasabeb came to an end on his death and was not of such  anature as would794devolve	 on the plaintiff-respondent despite the  GovernmentResolution  dated  December 17, 1941, (2) that	the  allegedfamily	custom did not apply to maintenance grants, and	 (3)that,  in any event, the suit was barred under s. 4  of	 theBombay	Revenue	 Jurisdiction  Act,  1876.   The   appellantbesides supporting the aforesaid pleas raised the additionalpleas  that  there was no valid adoption of  the  plaintiff-respondent  and	 Abayabai was expressly	 prohibited  by	 herhusband from adopting a son.On these pleadings several issues were framed.	The suit wasoriginally  dismissed on a preliminary ground, namely,	thatthe  plaint  did  not disclose any  cause  of  action.	 Thelearned	 Civil	Judge  apparently took	the  view  that	 theproperties in suit were subject to the Saranjam Rules and onexamining those rules, he came to the conclusion that as theplaintiff-respondent on his adoption became a nephew of	 theappellant  and in that sense was claiming  maintenance	fromthe  latter,  it was necessary for him to have	alleged	 thenecessary  circumstances  under which certain members  of  aSaranjam Family are entitled to claim maintenance under Rule7  of  the said Rules and as those  circumstances  were	 notpleaded by the plaintiff-respondent, the plaint disclosed nocause  of action.  The High Court rightly pointed  out	thatthe   plaintiff-respondent   did  not  make  a	 claim	 formaintenance under Rule 7 of the Saranjam Rules, but  claimedthat the properties in suit devolved on him by reason of hisadoption and the custom of lineal primogeniture.  Therefore,the  High  Court  held	that the  claim	 of  the  plaintiff-respondent  was much more fundamental than a mere  claim  ofmaintenance,  and  the learned Civil Judge  had	 misdirectedhimself as to the true scope of the suit.  Accordingly,	 theHigh  Court set aside the decree of dismissal  and  directedthe suit to be tried on all the issues.After  this direction the learned Civil Judge tried all	 theissues.	 Issues 1 and 2 related to the question of adoption,namely,	 (1) whether the ceremony of adoption  was  properlyproved	and (2) whether Babasaheb during his  life-time	 hadprohibited  his wife from making an adoption.  On the  firstissue the learned795Civil Judge found in favour of the plaintiff-respondent	 andon  the	 second against him.  The High	Court  affirmed	 thefinding	 on the first issue, and on a careful  and  detailedexamination  of the evidence held on the second	 issue	thatthe  learned  Civil  Judge was wrong  in  holding  that	 theadoption was invalid by reason of the alleged prohibition ofBabasaheb.   The  High	Court held that there  was  no	suchprohibition,  and the adoption was valid.  We do  not  thinkthat  this  finding  of the High Court has been	 or  can  besuccessfully   assailed	 before	 us.   Therefore,  we	haveproceeded  in  this appeal on the basis that  the  plaintiffrespondent was validly adopted by Abayabai on July 10, 1941.We  go	now  to a consideration of those  issues  which	 arematerial for a decision of this appeal.	 They are: Issue No.3--Does plaintiff prove his title to the suit property ?Issue No. 4--Is it proved that the Government Resolution (D.G.)  No. 8969 of December 17, 1941, is ultra vires and	nulland void as alleged in the plaint ?Issue  No.  5-Is  the suit barred under	 section  4  of	 theRevenue Jurisdiction Act ?Issue  No. 7-Is the alleged custom set up in para.  6(b)  ofthe plaint proved ?On  all these issues the learned Civil Judge  found  againstthe  plaintiff-respondent, and held that the latter was	 notentitled  to recover possession Of the properties  in  suit,that he had failed to prove the custom pleaded in  paragraph6(b)  of  the  plaint, that  the  Government  Resolution  ofDecember  17,1941,  was not ultra vires, and that  the	suititself	was  barred  under  s.	4  of  the  Bombay   RevenueJurisdiction  Act,  1876.   The	 High  Court  reversed	 thedecision  of  the learned Civil Judge on all  the  aforesaidissues,	 and held that as the properties in suit were  givento  the junior branch of Babasaheb for its  maintenance	 andwere   impartible  and	governed  by  the  rule	 of   linealprimogeniture,	 they  devolved	 on  the   appellant   afterBabasaheb's death ; but as soon as Babasaheb's widow796made  a	 valid adoption, the properties were  divested	 andinasmuch  as  the  plaintiff-respondent	 became	 the  eldestmember of the senior branch of Babasaheb's family, he becameentitled  thereto as a result of the combined effect of	 thefamily	custom and ordinary Hindu law.	The High Court	saidthat looked at from this point of view, no question arose ofthe validity of the Government Resolution dated December 17,1941,  and  no	relief for possession  having  been  claimedagainst Government, the suit was not barred under s.   4  ofthe Bombay Revenue Jurisdiction Act, 1876.On  behalf  of the appellant, it has been  very	 strenuouslyargued that the High Court was in error in holding that	 theproperties  in suit which are part of a Saranjam, vested  inthe  appellant	on  'the death of Babasaheb  and  were	thendivested on the adoption of the plaintiff-respondent; it  iscontended  that such a conclusion is inconsistent  with	 thenature of a Saranjam tenure and furthermore, the  propertiesin suit having vested in the appellant by reason of the	 re-grant dated December 17, 1941, they could not be divested bythe adoption made on July 10, 1941.  Nor does it follow,  itis  contended, from the custom pleaded in paragraph 6(b)  ofthe plaint, apart from the question whether even that customhas  been proved or not, that the properties in suit  havingonce  vested  in the appellant will be divested on  a  validadoption.   Secondly,  it has been contended that  the	HighCourt  was also in error in holding that there was no  claimagainst Government within the meaning of the fourth  sub-cl.of  s.	4(a) of the Bombay Revenue Jurisdiction	 Act,  1876.The argument before us has been that there was such a claim,and no Civil Court had jurisdiction to determine it.We are satisfied that these arguments are correct and shouldbe accepted.  The claim of the plaintiff respondent that theproperties  in suit devolved on him on his adoption  may  beexamined either from the point of view of the Saranjam Rulesor  the	 custom which he pleaded in paragraph  6(b)  of	 theplaint.	  Let us examine the claim first from the  point  ofview of the Saraniam Rules assuming here that they apply,797as far as practicable, to maintenance grants (potgis) withinthe  Saranjam.	 In the Resolution of June 7,  1932,  quotedearlier, the Government of Bombay treated the potgi  holdersas  being within the Saranjam and made provision  for  them.The Resolution of December 17, 1941, also proceeded on	thatfooting.  Two earlier Resolutions, one of 1891 (Ex. 100) andthe  other  of	1936 (Ex. 101), also treated  the  whole  ofGajendragad and also parts thereof as a Saranjam.  Babasahebin his lifetime wanted to surrender the grant in his  favourto  the Saranjamdar, but Government refused to	accept	suchrelinquishment.	  Even	Abayabai  asked	 for  permission  ofGovernment  to take a boy in adoption, which permission	 shedid  not obtain.  All this shows that the potgi holding	 waspart  of  the Saranjam and was treated as such	by  all	 theparties concerned.What  is  a Saranjam ? The word " Saranjam  literally  meansapparatus, provisions or materials.  In his Glossary, Wilsondefines	 Saranjam as temporary assignments of  revenue	fromvillages  or  lands for support of troops  or  for  personalservice usually for the lifetime of the grantees.  Dr. G. D.Patel  in  his	book  on  "  The  Indian  Land	Problem	 andLegislation has said:"  According to the account given by Col.  Etheridge in	 hispreface	 to  the Saranjam List, it was the practice  of	 theformer	Governments, both the Muslims and the  Marathas,  tomaintain  a  species  of feudal aristocracy  for  the  Statepurposes by temporary assignments of revenue either for	 thesupport	 of the troops or personal service, the	 maintenanceof  official  dignity or for other  specific  reasons.	 Theholders	 of such lands were entrusted at the time  with	 thenecessary   powers   for  enabling  them  to   collect	 andappropriate  the  revenue  and	to  administer	the  generalmanagement  of	the  lands.  Under  the	 Muslim	 rule,	suchholdings  were called Jahagirs and under the  Maratha  rule,they came to be called Saranjam.  However, this	 distinctionbetween	 these	tenures ceased to exist during	the  Marathaperiod.	  At  the time of the introduction  of	the  Britishrule,104798the  difference between a Jahagir and a Saranjam  ceased  toexist,	to all intents and purposes.  The two  terms  becameconvertible  and  all such grants came to be  known  by	 thegeneral	 term "saranjam".  Apart from the  Saranjam  grants,which were found only in the Deccan, there were other grantsof a political nature found scattered over the whole  State.Their  origins did not materially differ from those  of	 theSaranjam with the result that the British treated them underthe same rules called the Saranjam Rules ".The  Saranjam  Rules  were made in exercise  of	 the  powersreferred to in r. 10 of Schedule B of Act Xi of 1852 and  ofthe  second  sub-cl. to el. 3 of s. 2 of Bombay Act  VII  of1863.  We may here reproduce some of these Rules:"   Rule  I-Saranjams  shall  be  ordinarily  continued	  inaccordance  with  the decision already passed or  which	 mayhereafter be passed by Provincial Government in each case.Rule 2-A Saranjam which has been decided to be	hereditarilycontinuable  shall  ordinarily descend to  the	eldest	malerepresentative in the order of primogeniture, of the  seniorbranch	of  the	 family descended  from	 the  First  Britishgrantee	 or  any  of  his brothers  who	 were  undivided  ininterest.   But Provincial Government reserve to  themselvesthe rights for sufficient reasons to direct the	 continuanceof  the Saranjam to any other member of the said family,  oras an act of grace, to a person adopted into the same familywith the sanction of Provincial Government.  When a saranjamis  thus continued to an adopted son, he shall be liable  topay  to Provincial Government a nazarana not  exceeding	 oneyear's	value of the saranjam, and it shall be	levied	fromhim in such instalments as Provincial Government may in eachcase direct.Rule  5-Every saranjam shall be held as a life	estate.	  Itshall be formally resumed on the death of the holder, and incases  in  which it is capable of  further  continuance,  itshall be made over to the next holder as a, fresh grant fromProvincial799Government,  unencumbered by any debts or charges save	suchas may be specially imposed by Provincial Government itselfRule  7-Every saranjamdar shall be responsible for making  asuitable  provision  for  the maintenance of  the  widow  orwidows	of the preceding saranjamdar, his own  brothers,  orany  other  member of his family who, having a	valid  claimarising from infancy, mental or physical deformity renderingsuch member incapable of earning a livelihood, may be deemeddeserving of support at his hands.  When this obligation  isnot fulfilled by any saranjamdar, Provincial Government	 maydirect	him to make suitable provision for such	 person	 andmay  fix  the amount, which he shall pay in  each  instance;provided  that no one who has independent means of his	own,or  is, in the opinion of Provincial  Government,  otherwisesufficiently provided for, shall be entitled to	 maintenancefrom the Saranjamdar.Rule 8-Every order passed by Provincial Government under theabove  rule  for the grant of maintenance by  a	 Saranjamdarshall hold good' during his life onlyThe  true  nature of a Saranjam tenure was considered  by  aFull  Bench of the Bombay High Court in Daulatrao  Malojiraov.  Province  of  Bombay(1)  where  their  Lordships   afterreferring  to the earlier decisions in Shekh Sultan Sani  v.Shekh Ajmodin (2) and Raghojirao v. Laxmanrao(3) observed:" An examination of the authorities, makes it clear that thewhole  structure  of  a Saranjam tenure is  founded  in	 thesovereign  right,  which can only change by conquest  or  bytreaty.	  So founded, jagirs and Saranjams, with the  feudalincidents  connected with them, are granted or	withheld  atthe  will  and	pleasure of the	 sovereign  power,  and,  ifgranted,   the	fixity	of  tenure  is	always	subject	  tointerruption  and revocation by resumption, be it  temporaryor absolute in character.  No incident normally applicable(1) (1946) 49 Bom.  L.R. 270.  (2) (1892) L.R. 20 I.A. 50.(3) (1912) 14 Bom.  L.R. 1226.800to private rights between subject and subject can fetter  ordisturb the sovereign will ".It  seems  to us manifestly clear that	the  Saranjam  Rulesfurnish no basis for the claim of the plaintiff	 respondent.Abayabai asked for sanction to her taking a boy in adoption.No  such sanction was given.  On the death of Babasaheb,  itwas  open  to  Government to resume the grant,	and  by	 itsResolution  of December 17, 1941, Government  directed	thatthe Saranjam potgi holding of village Dindur and Survey	 No.302 of Unachgeri should be continued to the appellant.	Thisreally	amounted to a resumption and fresh grant and  we  donot agree with the High Court that the order passed amountedto no more than recognising the legal position according  tothe rule of succession and stood on the same footing as	 anyorder  of ordinary mutation.  The High Court has  emphasisedthe  use of the word " continued " in the  Resolution  datedDecember  17, 1941, and has contrasted that Resolution	withthe earlier Resolution dated June 7, 1932, which was clearlya  Resolution giving effect to a resumption and	 regrant  ofthe  Gajendragad Saranjam.  It may, however, be pointed	 outthat  in paragraph 2 of the earlier  Resolution,  Governmentused  the  same word " continued " in  connection  with	 themaintenance   grants,  namely,	potgi  holdings	  within   aSaranjam.   Nothing,  therefore, turns upon the use  of	 theword " continued " and if the ]Resolution dated December 17,1941,  is  read	 as a whole it is clear that  the  potgi  ofvillage	 Dindur	 and Survey field No. 302 of  Unachgeri	 wasgranted to the present appellant.  It was open to Governmentto pass such an order, and we see no reasons to hold that itwas null and void.  Indeed, the High Court did not say	thatit  was an invalid order; on the contrary, it said  that  itwas a good order and operated with effect from the death  ofBabasaheb.  But it said erroneously in our opinion, that  byreason	of  the	 subsequent event  of  adoption,  the  orderceased, for all practical purposes, to have any effect	fromthat  event.  It is well to remember that the adoption	tookplace  on  July 10, 1941, and the Resolution was  passed  onDecember 17,8011941, though it took effect retrospectively from the date ofdeath of Babasaheb.  We see no reasons why S, a valid  ordermade by Government will cease to have any effect because  ofan adoption made by Abayabai without sanction of Government.To hold that the Government Order ceased to have any  effectby  reason  of	the act of a private party  will  be  to  goagainst the very nature of a Saranjam tenure.Let  us	 now examine the claim of the  plaintiff  respondentfrom  the point of view of the custom pleaded  in  paragraph6(b)  of  the plaint.  The custom pleaded was  the  rule  oflineal	primogeniture.	In its written statement  Governmentsaid:"  The family custom alleged in clause (b) is not  admitted,and it is denied that such a custom can apply in respect  ofmaintenance  grants.   Under Rule 7 of the  Saranjam  Rules,which merely embody the customary law relating to Saranjams,Government is given absolute discretion to determine whetheror  not to make an order and what provision to make  and  inwhose favourThe appellant said:" The contents of para. 6(b) of the plaint are not  correct.The  custom  of	 descent by the	 rule  of  primogeniture  isdenied.	   This	  defendant   has  become   the	  owner	  bysurvivorship, after the death of Babasaheb ".The  learned  Civil Judge found that the custom	 pleaded  inparagraph 6(b) of the plaint was not proved.  The High Courthas  not referred to any evidence on which the custom  couldbe  said  to  have been proved, but observed that  "  it  iscommon ground that the properties which had been assigned tothis  branch for its maintenance is impartable and  goes  byprimogeniture".	  Even if we assume that the High  Court  isright  in its observation, though in face of the  denial  inthe  two written statements it is difficult to see how	thiscould  be  common  ground between the parties,	we  fail  toappreciate   how   the	assumption  helps   the	  plaintiff-respondent.   On  the  operation  of  the  rule	 of   linealprimogeniture  after the death of Babasaheb,  the  appellantbecame entitled to and got the802properties.   It  was  not pleaded in the  plaint  that	 theproperties  once  vested  by the customary  rule  of  linealprimogeniture  were divested on subsequent adoption, by	 thewidow.	 No such plea was specifically taken,  but the	HighCourt relied on the concession made by learned advocate	 forthe  appellant that under ordinary Hindu law the  propertieswhich  were  vested  in the appellant  were  divested  on  asubsequent  valid  adoption by the widow.   We	consider  itunnecessary to go into the vexed question of divesting of anestate	on a subsequent valid adoption by the widow.  It  isenough to point out that the plaint disclosed no such  case;no  such  issue	 was  raised and it  was  not  open  to	 theplaintiff-respondent  to make out a new case for  the  firsttime  in appeal.  The plaintiff-respondent set up  a  familycustom	of lineal primogeniture different from the  ordinarylaw  of inheritance; it was incumbent on him to	 allege	 andprove the custom on which he relied and to show its  preciseextent and how far it prevailed over ordinary Hindu law.  Inour  opinion, he failed to plead or prove any family  customby which the properties devolved on him.  Moreover, in orderto  succeed the plaintiff respondent must further  establishthat the custom was such as would bind the Government.	 Theappellant and the Government never conceded that the  customof lineal primogeniture, if it prevailed in the family, tookaway the right of Government to resume the maintenance grantwhich was part of a Saranjam and make a fresh grant  thereofin accordance with the Saranjam Rules.Now,  as  to s. 4 of the Bombay	 Revenue  Jurisdiction	Act,1876.	The  section,  so  far as it  is  relevant  for	 ourpurpose, says:-" S. 4.-Subject to the exceptions hereinafter appearing,  noCivil  Court  shall exercise jurisdiction as to any  of	 thefollowing matters:(a)claims  against the Government relating to  any  propertyappertaining  to  the  office  of  any	hereditary   officerappointed or recognised under Bombay Act no.  III of 1874 orany  other law for the time being in force, or of any  othervillage-officer or servant, or803claims to perform the duties of any such officer or servant,or in respect of any injury caused by,, exclusion from	suchoffice or service, orsuits to set aside or avoid any order under the same Act  orany  other  law relating to the same subject  for  the	timebeing in force passed by the State Government or any officerduly authorized in that behalf, orclaims	against the Government relating to lands held  undertreaty, or to lands granted or held as Saranjam, or on otherpolitical  tenure,  or to lands declared by  the  ProvincialGovernment or any officer duly authorized in that behalf  tobe held for service".In  Mallappa  alias Annasaheb Basvantrao Desai	Nadgouda  v.Tukko Narshimha Mutalik Desai and Others (1) it was  pointedout that in the section a distinction has been made  betweenclaims	and suits.  The subclause we are concerned  with  isthe  fourth sub-clause which relates inter alia to "  claimsagainst the Government relating to lands granted or held  asSaranjam ". The High Court has taken the view that no  claimwas  made  against Government in the present case.   We	 areunable to agree.  In express terms, the plaintiff respondentasked  for  a finding that the Government  Resolution  datedDecember 17, 1941, was null and void and did not affect	 theproperties  in	suit because the Government  had  either  noauthority to make such an order or no occasion to do so.  Heasked  for  possession of those properties in spite  of	 theorders	of Government.	In these circumstances we must	holdthat  Government was more than a purely formal party, and  aclaim was made against it in respect of the orders containedin  its	 Resolution  dated December 17,	 1941.	 Unless	 theResolution  is out of his way, the  plaintiff-respondent  isnot  entitled  to  claim recovery  of  possession  from	 theappellant  with mesne profits, etc.  The Civil Court has  nojurisdiction  to determine any claim against the  Governmentin the matter of the Resolution of December 17, 1941, relat-ing to Saranjam lands, and the suit was barred unders.   4 of the Bombay Revenue Jurisdiction Act, 1876.(1) I.L.R. [1937] Bom. 464.804We accordingly allow this appeal, set aside the judgment anddecree	of  the	 High Court dated  November  12,  1952,	 andrestore	 that  of the learned Civil Judge  dated  April	 20,1949.	 The  appellant	 will  be  entitled  to	 his   coststhroughout from the plaintiff-respondent.				     Appeal allowed.