PETITIONER:COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, WESTBENGAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:CALCUTTA NATIONAL BANK LIMITED(IN LIQUIDATION)DATE OF JUDGMENT:20/04/1959BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.KAPUR, J.L.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR  928		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 660 CITATOR INFO : D	    1960 SC1016	 (20) D	    1988 SC 460	 (5,11)ACT:Excess Profits Tax-Rental income-Banking Company letting outa Part of its own premises-Liability-Excess Profits Tax Act,1940 (XV Of 1940), S. 2(5), Sch.  I, r. 4(4).HEADNOTE:The  respondent was a banking company and the  question	 waswhether it was liable to pay excess profits tax on a sum  ofRs.  86,000 received by it as rent in respect of  the  majorpart of a six-storeyed building owned and constructed by it,which  it  had	let  out, the rest  being  occupied  by	 itsheadquarters in Calcutta.  The Department and the Income-taxAppellate Tribunal found against the respondent but the HighCourt, on a reference under s. 66(1) of the Income Tax	Act,reversed  their decision.  The Memorandum of Association  ofthe Company provided as one of its objects as follows,-" (e) To purchase, take on lease or in exchange or otherwiseacquire any moveable or immoveable property.................which the company may think necessary or convenient for	 thepurpose	 of  its business, and to  construct,  maintain	 andalter any buildings or works necessary or convenient for thepurpose of the Company.	 "The  question  referred to the High Court for  decision	 wagwhether	 the  said income was part of  the  business  incometaxable	 under S. 2(5) read with r. 4(4) of the Sch.   I  tothe Excess Profits Tax Act, 1940.  The High Court held	thatalthough  the  income  was  derived  from  the	holding	  ofproperty,  since the functions of the assessee	company	 didnot  consist wholly or mainly in the holding of	 investmentsor  other  property as required by the first proviso  to  S.2(5) Of the Act, no question of the application ofr.   4(4) could arise.Held,  (Per  Sinha and Hidayatullah, jj.,  Kapur,  J.,	dis-senting),  that	 the  question	must  be  answered  in	 theaffirmative.Per  SINHA, J.-The High Court was fundamentally in error  inoverlooking  the main provision Of S. 2(5) of the  Act,	 foreven  though  the  first proviso might not  apply,  that  byitself	 would	not  render  the  main	provision   of	 thedefinition,  which  was	 wider than that  under	 the  IndianIncome-tax Act inapplicable.Commissioners  of Inland Revenue v. Desoutter  Bros.   Ltd.,(1945) 29 T. C. 158, applied.661The term 'business' was of wide import and each case had  tobe determined with reference to the particular kind of acti-vity  or  occupation  of  the  person  concerned.    Though,ordinarily it implied a continuous activity in carrying on aparticular  trade  or avocation, it might  also	 include  anactivity which might be called ' quiescent '.The  Commissioners  of	Inland Revenue v.  The	South  BeharRailway Co., Ltd., (1923) 12 T. C. 687 and Commissioners  ofInland	Revenue v. The Korean Syndicate, Ltd., (1921) 12  T.C. 181, referred to.The Memorandum of Association of a company provided the	 keyto  its	 business  objects and the relevant  clause  in	 theinstant	 case clearly showed that the managing	of  propertyand  realisation of rents therefrom were within the  objectsof the company, and, therefore, such rents must be  includedin  calculating its profits under r. 4(4) of the Sch.  I  tothe Act.It   was   not	correct	 to  suggest  that  the	  rule,	  insubstituting,  the word " partly " for " mainly "  occurringin  the first proviso to S. 2(5) exceeded the provisions  ofthe  statute.  Rule 4(4) did not derive its operative  forcefrom  that  proviso, limited to an incorporated	 body  of  aparticular  type,  and was of wider application	 as  evidentfrom its own terms as also from the second proviso to S.   2(5)of the Act.Punjab	Co-operative Bank Ltd. v.' Commissioner	 of  Income-tax,  Punjab,  (1940)  A.C. 1055; [1940] 8  I.T.R.  636	 andSardar lndra Singh and Sons, Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax, West Bengal, [1954] S.C.R. 167, referred to.It  was not correct to say that if rental income were to  becovered by the main clause of s. 2(5), the first proviso  tothat section would become redundant.Commissioners  of  Inland  Revenue v.  The  Tyre  InvestmentTrust, Ltd., (1924) 12 T. C. 646, referred to.Nor  was  it correct to say that " business " could  not  besaid to include rental income.The  United  Commercial Bank Ltd., Calcutta v.	The  Commis-sioner	of Income-tax, West Bengal, [1958] S.C.R.  79,	heldinapplicable.Per KAPUR, J.-The word 'business' could either mean what wascontained  in  the  main provision of S. 2(5)  or  have	 theextended meaning given by the first proviso to that section.In  either  case  it was inapplicable to  the  case  of	 therespondent whose essential function was to deal in money andcredit, letting out of property being neither wholly or evenpartly its business.  The income received by the respondent,therefore,  by	way  of	 rent,	did  not  fall	within	 thedefinition  of the word 'profits' contained in s.  2(19)  ofthe  Act and was not chargeable to excess profits tax  underS. 4 Of the Act.Salisbury House Estate Ltd. v. Fry, (1930) 15 T. C. 266,662Mellows v. Buxton Palace Hotel Ltd., (1943) 25 T.C. 507	 andCommissioners of Inland Revenue v. Buxton Palace Hotel	Ltd.(1948) 29   T.C. 329, referred to.In  construing	the first proviso, effect must be  given  toevery word used.  If the mere owning of immoveable  propertyand  the letting out of what was not needed for its own	 useby a company   was intended to be covered by the definition,the use of the words wholly " or " mainly " would be  whollyredundant.Rule  4(4) Of the first Schedule to the Act did	 not  modifythe definition of business' so far as it related to  holdingof property and before it could apply, the functions of	 thecompany,  which	 meant	the activities	appropriate  to	 itsbusiness,  must fall within the definition of 'business'  asgiven in the Act.Per  HIDAYATULLAH, J.-The rents realised by  the  respondentmust be regarded as profits from property held as investmentand included in the computation of profits under r. 4(4)  Ofthe first schedule.There was undeniably a difference between the wording of theschedule and the Act and the tendency of the schedule was towiden the definition of business so as to include letting ofproperty  for  earning rents.  It could not,  therefore,  besaid  that  the	 definition contained  in  the	Act,  whollycontrolled the Schedule and r. 4(4) must be given effect to.Inland Revenue Commissioners v. Gittus, (192O) 1 K. B.	563,applied.Gittus v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue, (1921) 2 A.C. 81,referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 4 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJune  10,  1953, of the Calcutta High  Court  in  Income-taxReference No. 39 of 1952.K.   N. Rajagopal Sastri, R. H. Dhebar and D. Gupta, for theappellant.B.   Sen, P. K. Ghosh and P. K. Bose, for the respondent.1959.  April 20.  'The following Judgments were deliveredSINHA,	J.-The question for determination in this appeal  byspecial	 leave,	 is  whether  the  assesses,  the   CalcuttaNational  Bank	Ltd. (in liquidation), is liable  to  ExcessProfits Tax in respect of Rs. 86,000/-, which it realised byway of rent of the building at its headquarters in Calcutta,during the accounting period663ending	March 31, 1946.	 The Department and  the  Income-taxAppellate Tribunal-answered the question in the affirmative.On a statement of the case to the High Court under s.  66(1)of  the Income-tax Act, a' Bench of the Calcutta High  Court(Chakravartti,	C.  J., and Lahiri, J.) answered it  in	 thenegative,  reversing  the orders of the Department  and	 theTribunal.   As	the  Bench refused to  grant  the  necessarycertificate  of	 fitness,  the appellant  applied  for,	 andobtained, special leave to appeal, by an order of this Courtdated September 27, 1954,The  facts of this case are short and simple.  The  assesseewas a banking company in a large way of business.  It owns asix-storeyed  building where its offices are located on	 theground floor and a part of the 6th floor, while the rest  ofthe  building  is  let out to tenants.	 The  annual  rentalincome	derived	 from  the portion let	out,  is  about	 Rs.86,000/-.   The Tribunal found that the portion let  out  isabout  four to five times the floor area of the	 portion  ofthe  building occupied by the assessee for the	purposes  ofits  own  business.  By an order dated March 31,  1949,	 theExcess	Profits Tax Officer assessed the respondent  on	 thesaid  rental  income  in respect of  the  accounting  periodending March 31, 1946, under sub-r. (4) of r. 4 of  ScheduleI  to  the Excess Profits Tax Act 1940 (XV of  1940)  (whichhereinafter  will be referred to as the Act).  On appeal  bythe respondent, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, by hisorder  dated January 3, 1950, upheld the assessment  on	 thebasis  of sub-r. (2) of r. 4 of Schedule I to the  Act.	  Hepointed	 out that the assessee carries on  banking  businesswhich includes holding investments, and thus, the rental in-come in respect of its investments in immovable property, isincluded  in  its business income, even though	it  was	 notchargeable to income-tax under s. 10 of the Income-tax	Act.Income	from  securities, like shares  and  properties.,  ischargeable  to income-tax under ss. 8, 9 and 12 of the	Act;but  that  head	 of income is chargeable under	the  Act  asbusiness profits.  He also pointed out that the assessee haditself included the value of these assets in the computationof its- capital,664for  claiming  standard profits.  This had been done  in  Ifthe  previous years, and the assessee bank had accepted	 thebasis  and  the	 computation of capital	 assets	 during	 theprevious  years.  On a further appeal by the  respondent  tothe Appellate Tribunal, the Tribunal held that there was  nodoubt  that  the premises were built with a view  partly  tohousing	 the head office of the company, and partly for	 thepurpose	 of  being let out to tenants, and that	 it  was  aninvestment by the Bank in immovable property.  The  Tribunalalso found that this was within the terms of the  Memorandumof  Association	 of the respondent company.  Hence,  by	 itsorder  dated  March  22, 1951, the Tribunal  held  that	 theletting	 out of so much of the building as was not  occupiedby  the company itself for its own business, was a  part  ofits business, and the rental income was, thus, liable to taxunder the Act.	It made a particular reference to sub-r. (4)of r. 4 of Sch.	 I to the Act, though the Department appearsto  have  also relied upon sub-r. (2) of  r.  4,  aforesaid.Thereupon, the respondent got the Tribunal to state the caseto   the  High	Court,	and  the  following   question	 wasaccordingly referred to the High Court under s. 66(1) of theIncome-tax Act:-"  Whether  in this case the rental  income  from  immovableproperty  is  part  of the  business  income  taxable  undersection	 2(5) read with rule 4(4) of Schedule I attached  tothe  Excess Profits Tax Act, 1940." The  matter  was heard by the High Court  with	 the  resultindicated above.  Hence, this appeal by special leave.There  is  no doubt that excess profits are  not  chargeableunder the Act unless the income falls within the ambit ofbusiness profits.  Section 2(5) of the Act defines     business"as under :-business' includes any trade, commerce or manufacture or anyadventure in the nature of trade, commerce or manufacture orany   profession  or  vocation,	 but  does  not	 include   aprofession carried on by an individual or by individuals  inpartnership  if the profits of the profession depend  whollyor  mainly  on his or their personal  qualifications  unlesssuch profession665consists  wholly  or mainly in the making  of  contracts  onbehalf	of other persons or the giving to other	 persons  ofadvice of a commercial nature in connection with the  makingof contracts:Provided  that	where  the functions of a company  or  of  asociety	 incorporated  by  or under  any  enactment  consistwholly	or  mainly in the holding of  investments  or  otherproperty, the holding of the investment or property shall bedeemed	for the purpose of this definition to be a  businesscarried on by such company or society:Provided  further  that	 all businesses to  which  this	 Actapplies	 carried on by the same person shall be	 treated  asone business for the purposes of this Act;".The definition of " business " under the Act, is wider	thanthe  definition	 of that term under the Income-tax  Act	 (s.2(4)).	 Section  2 (19) of the Act defines " profits  "  asfollows :-" I profits' means profits as determined in accordance	withthe First Schedule."Section	 2  (20) defines " standard profits "  as  follows:"Standard  profits  means  standard profits  as	computed  inaccordance  with  the  provisions of Section  6".   And	 thecharging section, s. 4 of the Act, provides that in  respectof  any business to which the Act applies,  excess  profits,that  is, profits during any chargeable	 accounting  period,exceeding the standard profits, shall be charged, levied andpaid.  Section 5 of the Act provides as follows:-"  This Act shall apply to every business of which any	partof the profits made during the chargeable accounting  periodis  chargeable to income-tax by virtue of the provisions  ofsub-clause  (1)	 or sub-clause (ii) of clause  (b)  of	sub-section (1) of Section 4 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922,or of clause (c) of that sub-section :Provided  that this Act shall not apply to any business	 thewhole  of  the	profits of which  accrue  or  arise  withoutBritish	 India	where such business is carried on by  or  onbehalf of a person who is resident84666but  not  ordinarily resident in British  India	 unless	 thebusiness is controlled in India;Provided further that where the profits of a part only of  abusiness  carried  on  by a person who is  not	resident  inBritish India or not ordinarily so resident accrue or  arisein  British India or are deemed under the Indian  Income-taxAct,  1922,  so to accrue or arise, then, except  where	 thebusiness being the business of a person who is resident	 butnot  ordinarily resident in British India is controlled'  inIndia,	this  Act  shall  apply only to	 such  part  of	 thebusiness,  and such part shall for all the purposes of	thisAct be deemed to bea separate business;Provided  further  that	 this Act shall	 not  apply  to	 anybusiness  the whole of the profits of which accrue or  arisein  an	Indian State; and where the profits of a part  of  abusiness  accrue  or  arise in an Indian  State,  such	partshall, for the purposes of this provision, be deemed to be aseparate  business the whole of the profits of which  accrueor  arise  in  an Indian State, and the other  part  of	 thebusiness shall, for all the purposes of this Act, be  deemedto  be	a  separate business."	The  First  Schedule,  whichcontains the rules for computation of profits, provides,  insub-r. 4 of r. 4, as follows:-"(4)  In  the case of a business which	consists  wholly  orpartly	in the letting out of property on hire,	 the  incomefrom  the property shall be included in the profits  of	 thebusiness  whether or not it has been charged  to  income-taxunder Section 9 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, or underany other section of that Act."Having set out the relevant provisions of the Act, the firstquestion  that	arises	for consideration,  is	whether	 theletting out of the promises in question can be said to be  abusiness of the assessee bank.	The definition of " business" is only an inclusive one, and includes any sort of  trade,commerce or Manufacture.  Can it be said that realization ofincome	from its investments which may be either in  shares,securities or in immovable properties, is not a part of	 thebusiness of a banking corporation ? In my opinion, it will667be  taking a very narrow view of the functions of a bank  tohold  that such activities are not within the ambit  of	 thebusiness  activities  of  a  bank.   In	 the  Memorandum  ofAssociation of the assessee bank, the objects of the companyare stated to be:"  (a) To carry on all kinds of banking business,  that	 aregenerally carried on by Joint Stock Banks...""  (b)	To  carry  on the business of  banking	in  all	 itsbranches  and departments, including borrowing,	 raising  ortaking up money, the lending or advancing money,  securitiesor properties ; the acquiring, holding, issuing and  dealingwith investment of all kinds; the managing of properties" (c) To purchase, take on lease or in exchange or otherwiseacquire	 any  moveable	or  immoveable	property  which	 theCompany may think necessary or convenient for the purpose ofits  business,	and  to construct, maintain  and  alter	 anybuildings  or works necessary or convenient for the  purposeof the company."Apparently,  the bank constructed the six-storeyed  buildingnot only for its own use and occupation, but also, accordingto  the	 finding of the Appellate Tribunal,  for  the  majorpart, for the purpose of realising rent from tenants.  Whereland  in  a big city, like Calcutta, is taken  for  buildingpurposes,  it  is common knowledge that	 erecting  a  multi-storeyed  building,  is	 by itself  an	investment,  besidesaffording  accommodation  for  the  bank  to  carry  on	 andadvertise  its	business,  and	house  its  head-office	 andrecords.The  High  Court answered the question referred to,  in	 thenegative  on the ground that though the income	was  derivedfrom  the  holding  of	property,  the	fuilctions  of	 theassessee-company  did  not consist wholly or mainly  in	 theholding of investments or other property, as required by theproviso to s. 2(5) of the Act.	Since the requirement of thefirst  proviso to s. 2(5) of the Act, was not satisfied,  noquestion  of  the application of sub-r. (4) of r.  4,  couldarise;	and even if such a question could arise, the word  "business  " in that sub-rule, must take its colour from	 themain provisions of the section.	 This conclusion was reachedby668the learned Chief Justice, who delivered the opinion of	 theCourt, by starting with the premise that for determining thenature of the income of the company, it was not necessary toconsider  the provisions of the definition of " business  ",contained  in  the main clause of s. 2(5),  which  was	alsoassumed	 to  be parallel to the connotation of	the  term  "business  " under the Indian Income-tax Act.  Having,  thus,excluded,  without  giving any reasons why they	 had  to  beexcluded,   the	 provisions  of	 the  main  clause  of	 thedefinition  of	" business ", as contained in the  Act,	 thelearned	 Chief	Justice addressed himself  to  the  questionwhether	 the first proviso to the definition  clause,  whichwas  in the nature of an additional provision, could  governthe facts of the case, and bring it within the ambit of thatkind  of  business to which the Act  applied.	The  learnedChief Justice rightly pointed out that the first proviso  islimited	 to  incorporated  bodies and had  no  reference  toindividuals.   Then, the learned Chief Justice observed :  "It  is	to  be noticed that in	the  contemplation  of	thisproviso,  property is something different from	investments,for  it speaks of I investments or other property '.  It  isalso  to be noticed that if the requirements of the  provisoare satisfied, the holding of investments or other  propertyshall be deemed	    to be a business', which implies that itis not really a	    business   and,  but  for  the   specialprovisions made by proviso		 would not be withinthe general definition contained in the main clause ". It isdoubtful  whether these observations are  entirely  correct,but, as will presently appear, we are not so much  concernedwith  the  _proviso  as	 with the  main	 provisions  of	 thedefinition clause (s. 2(5) ). The conclusion of the  learnedChief  Justice	may better be stated in his  own  words,  asfollows:-"  It appears to me that the first matter to which  we	mustaddress	 ourselves in answering the question before  us	 is:are  the  functions of the assessee company  such  that	 theholding	 of the building in question or buildings  or  otherproperty and investments in general must be deemed to be itsbusiness  for  the purposes of the Excess  Profits  Tax	 Actunder the first669proviso	 to  section 2(5) ? In order that  question  may  beanswered in favour of the Revenue, it is necessary that	 theholding of investments or other property should be the	onlyor  the	 principal function of the assessee company.   As  Ihave  said, the assessee company, is a banking company in  alarge way of business.	It is hardly disputable, and  indeedit  was	 not  disputed	before	us,  that  the	holding	  ofinvestments  or other property was not its sole	 or  primaryoccupation, much less the holding of the particular buildingin question".In  my opinion, the aforesaid conclusion of the	 High  Courtsuffers from two fundamental errors, namely,(1)	  that	 themain clause of the definition section is out of	 the way  indetermining the present controversy, and     (2) that it wasthe  proviso  only which had to be considered  in  order  toanswer	the question referred.	In the first  instance,	 thelearned	 Chief Justice is not entirely correct in  observingthat  the  definition  of the term  "business"	follows	 thedefinition  of the same term in the Indian  Income-tax	Act.As already observed, the definition under the Act, is  widerthan that under the Income-tax Act, in so far as it includescertain types of profession or vocation.  The scheme of	 theAct, as compared to that of the Income-tax Act, will have tobe considered presently, but it is enough to point out	thatthe  connotation of the term " business " under the Act,  iswider  than that of the same term under the Income-tax	Act.The learned Chief Justice set aside, from his consideration,the  provisions of the main clause of s. 2(5), and  did	 notindicate  his reasons for doing so.  Ordinarily,  the  Courthas first to consider whether the main clause of the defini-tion of the term " business ", would govern the facts of thecase.	The,  question	of  the	 application  of  the  firstproviso, which, it is common ground, is in the nature of  anadditional  provision which brings within its ambit  certaintypes  of  income (to use a neutral term)  which  would	 nototherwise  have come within the terms of the main clause  ofthe  definition, can arise only if the Court first comes  tothe conclusion that the main clause of the definition is outof the way.  I will670assume	that  the  holding  of	investments  or	 other	pro-property,  is  not  the	 whole	or  main  business  of	 theRespondent  Company.   That assumption will  put  aside	 thefirst proviso aforesaid, but that does not by itself lead tothe  inference	that the main provision	 of  the  definitionclause, cannot be applied to the respondent.  An argument onthese  lines was advanced, and was repelled by Lord  Greene,M.  R.,	 in the case of Commissioners of Inland	 Revenue  v.Desoutter  Bros., Ltd. (1).  In that case, sub-s. (4) of  s.12 of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1939, which deals with ExcessProfits Tax, was under consideration by the Court of Appeal.The  learned  Master of Rolls considered the  question,	 andmade the following observations which apply with full  forceto the arguments which found favour ,in the High Court:-"The  first  argument is based on the  language	 of  Section12(4)  of  the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1939, which	 deals	withExcess	Profits	 Tax.  The first Sub-section speaks  of	 theprofits	 I arising in any chargeable accounting period	fromany trade or business to which this section applies '. It isin  respect of those profits that the tax is  exigible.	  Itwill  be  observed  that the language only  extends  to	 theprofits arising from I any trade or business'.	 Sub-section(4)  says  I  Where the functions of a	company	 or  societyincorporated  by  or under any enactment consist  wholly  ormainly in the holding of investments or other property,	 theholding	 of the investments or property shall be deemed	 forthe  purpose of this section to be a business carried on  bythe company or society" I should have thought that the objects of that Sub-sectionwere  manifest.	  In  my view it  was  intended,  and  quiteclearly	  intended,  to	 bring	into  the  net	a  type	  ofcorporation which otherwise would or might have escaped	 it.The commonest type of corporation with which the Sub-sectionis dealing is what may be called a trust investment company,whose  business is the holding of investments  and  derivingincome	from them.  Such a corporation would not be said  tobe carrying on a 'trade or business' within the meaning of(1)  (1945) 29 T.C. 155, 160.671Sub-section  (1).  Anyhow, if it were not absolutely  clear,Sub-section  (4)  makes	 it  quite  certain  that  type	  ofcorporation is to be included, and its operations are to  beregarded  as the carrying on of a trade or  business.	Thatseems  to me to be the real and sole object  of	 Sub-section(4).""  The argument really amounted to this: by implication	 theprofits from investments or property held by any other	typeof  corporation	 is  excluded.	I cannot begin	to  see	 theshadow of a foundation for any such argument.  In my opinionit breaks down completely once the real significance of Sub-section (4) is appreciated."I  respectfully	 adopt	the  reasoning	and  the  conclusionarrived	 at  by the Court of Appeal,  extracted	 above.	  Itfollows that the first proviso to s. 2(5) does not determinethe  controversy  arising  in this  case.   This  conclusioncompletely  displaces the ratio of the opinion of  the	HighCourt,	but it does not answer the question referred to	 it.It  has,  therefore,  to  be  considered  whether  the	maindefinition  clause in s. 2(5) can come into, play in  givingthe  answer to the question referred for the opinion of	 theHigh  Court.  The term " business " is a word of very  wide,though by no means determinate, scope.	It has rightly	beenobserved in judicial decisions of high authority that it  isneither practicable nor desirable to make any attempt at de-limiting the ambit of its connotation.	Each case has to  bedetermined with reference to the particular kind of activityand occupation of the person concerned.	 Though ordinarily "business  " implies a continuous activity in carrying  on  aparticular  trade  or  avocation, it  may  also	 include  anactivity  which	 may  be  called  I  quiescent'.   This	  isillustrated by the case which went up to the House of  Lordsin  The Commissioners of Inland Revenue v. The	South  BeharRailway Co., Ltd. (1).	In that case, the facts were  these.Dowri to 1906, the South Behar Railway was held by the	Res-pondent	 Company and worked by another Company on behalf  ofthe  Secretary	of State for India, the	 Respondent  Companybeing entitled to a share in the(1)  (1923) 12 T. C. 657.672profits	 in consideration of its having supplied  funds	 andmaterials for the construction of the Railway.	In 1906, theRespondent Company relinquished possession of the Railway tothe  Secretary of State, on the stipulation that  until	 theoption	to purchase was exercised, a fixed annuity of  pound30,000 should be paid to the Company in lieu of the share ofprofits	 so far paid.  After that arrangement in  1906,	 theCompany	 did  nothing but receive and  distribute  the	saidannuity	 to its share-holders.	It was held by the House  ofLords that the Company was carrying on a trade or  business,and was, therefore, liable to Corporation Profits Tax.	 TheHouse of Lords, while affirming the decision of the Court ofAppeal,	 observed  that the finding  of	 the  Commissioners,which  was  reversed  by the Court of  Appeal.,	 was  not  afinding	 of pure fact, but was an inference of law,  derivedfrom  the  specific  facts  found in  the  case,  and  that,consequently, the decision was open to review.	The House ofLords,	in  upholding the decision of the Court	 of  Appeal,observed  that	by  the agreement  of  1906,  the  Company'sincome,	 which previously was a fluctuating  income  derivedfrom  the  share of the profits, had been converted  into  afixed  annuity irrespective of the earnings of the  Railway;and  that the new arrangement did not materially affect	 theposition of the Company as a business concern.	The House ofLords	approved  of  the  decision  in	 the  case  of	 theCommissioners  of  Inland Revenue v. The  Korean  Syndicate,Ltd. (1).  In that case, a Syndicate was registered in	1905as  a  Company	for the purposes of  acquiring	and  workingconcessions  and turning them to account, and  of  investingand  dealing with any moneys not immediately  required.	  In1905, the Syndicate acquired part of a right to a concessionin  Korea,  which  included a gold mine,  but  in  1908,  itassigned its rights to another Company under an agreement oflease in consideration of certain royalties, but which	werereally a percentage of the profits in working the  property.In 1911, the Syndicate placed in deposit at a bank,  certainsums of money received from the sale of shares which had(1)  (1921) 12 T.C. 181.673been obtained by the Syndicate in exchange for other shares.During the relevant period, the Syndicate's activities	wereconfined  to  receiving	 bank  interest	 and  royalties	 anddistributing that income amongst its shareholders.  Rowlatt,J. held that the Company was not carrying on a business.  Onappeal,	 it  was held that the Syndicate was carrying  on  abusiness,  and	that  the profits  derived  therefrom,	wereliable	to  Excess Profits Tax.	 In order to  ascertain	 thebusiness of a Company, its Memorandum has to be looked into.The Memorandum provides the key to what the business objectsof  the	 Company are, and it has further to  be	 ascertainedwhether	 those	objects	 are still being  pursued.   In	 thepresent	 case,	the relevant clauses of	 the  Memorandum  ofAssociation,  have  been set out, and there  cannot  be	 theleast doubt that the managing of property and realisation ofrents  therefrom, was within the objects of the Company,  ifit  found  it necessary and convenient for carrying  on	 itsbusiness.  It may be that this line of business activity maynot be the main part of its business, but even so, if reali-sation	of rent is one of the sources of business income  tothe Company, it has got to be included in the computation ofits profits for the purposes of the Act.  This becomes clearon a reference to sub-r. (4) of r. 4, quoted above.  But  ithas  been contended that the words " wholly or partly  "  inthe Rule, are in excess of the provisions of s. 2(5), where,in  tile first proviso, the words are " wholly or mainly  ".The suggestion is that the rule, in so far as it substituted"  Partly " for It mainly ", is in excess of the  provisionsof the statute.	 In my opinion, this argument is based on anassumption  which  is not well-founded.	 As  will  presentlyappear from an examination and comparison of the  provisionsof  the	 Act  and  the lncome-tax  Act,	 r.  4(4)  does	 notnecessarily  derive  its  operative  force  from  the  firstproviso	 to  the main clause of the definition in  s.  2(5).The   proviso,	as  already  observed,	is  limited  to	  anincorporated body of a particular type, and has reference tothe " holding of investments or other property ". Rule	4(4)is of a more general application to 85674a " business which consists wholly or partly in the  lettingout of property on hire ". In the rule, a reference to s.  9of  the Indian Income-tax Act, also makes it clear that	 therule  is concerned with " property ". It is also clear	thatthe basis for taxation of property under s. 9 of the Income-tax  Act, is different from the basis of taxation under	 theAct,  in respect of income from property, and the latter  isirrespective  of whether income from property has  been	 thesubject-matter of charge under the Income-tax Act.  In	thisconnection,  a	reference  to the  second  proviso  is	alsorelevant in so far as it implies that a person may carry  onbusinesses of different kinds, and all those different linesof business have, for the purposes of the Act, to be treatedas  one	 business.  Thus, the Bank may be  carrying  on	 thebusiness  of holding deposits, securities and  property,  asalso  lending money on different kinds of  securities.	 Itsincome	from  all those activities, would have to  be  takeninto  account  in  order to  determine	its  total  businessprofits.  A similar question arose in the case of Punjab Co-operative  Bank, Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax,  Punjab(1),  which went up to the Judicial Committee of  the  PrivyCouncil.   In  that  case, the question	 arose	whether	 therealisation of higher values by sale and purchase of  sharesand  securities	 by the Bank, could be said to	be  businessprofits,  and thus, taxable, under the Indian In.,  come-taxAct.   On  behalf  of  the  Bank,  it  had  been   contendedthroughout, without success, that the realisation of  highervalues	by  the	 sale of shares and securities,	 was  not  aseparate  business  of the Bank, but was in the way  of	 itsbusiness  as  a banking corporation which had to  deal	withmoney  and credit, and that the Bank had always to  have  inits hands, cash and easily realisable securities to meet anyprobable  demands by its depositors.  But it had been  foundas  a fact that the Bank had been selling shares  and  secu-rities	not  only for the purpose aforesaid,  but  also	 foraugmenting  its reserve funds.	It was held by the  JudicialCommittee that it had been rightly decided by the Departmentand by the High Court, on a(I)  (1940) A C. 1055 ; [1940] 8 I.T R. 635.675reference,  that  the  purchase	 and  sale  of	shares	 andsecurities  were  a  part of the  banking  business  of	 theCompany,  and  the profits, thus, realised  were  liable  toincome-tax.  Their Lordships of the Judicial Committee	alsoobserved  that	it was not necessary to establish  that	 theBank had been carrying on a separate business of buying	 andselling shares and investments in order to make profits thusmade taxable.  Once it is found that such transactions	wereentered	 into  by  the	Bank  not  merely  with	 a  view  torealisation  or	 change of investments, but with a  view  tocarrying on a business in the sense of earning profits,	 theBank was really carrying on a business within the meaning ofthe Income-tax Act.Following  this	 decision of the Privy Council,	 this  Courtdecided	 in the case of Sardar Indra Singh and Sons Ltd.  v.Commissioner  of  Income-tax,  West  Bengal  (1)  that	 thequestion  whether a certain income is profit  from  businessand not an appreciation of capital arising from a change  ofinvestment, depends Upon the answer to the further  questionwhether that income was so connected with the carrying on ofthe assessee's business that it could fairly be said that itis  the	 profits  and gains of the business  in	 its  normalworking.   It  was not necessary further to  show  that	 theincome	had  resulted  from a course of	 dealing  which,  byitself,	 would amount to the carrying on of a business.	  Inthat  case, the assessee company had, as one of its  objectsto carry on the business of financiers, and to purchase	 andsell   stock,	shares,	  business   concerns	and    otherundertakings.	In carrying out that objective, the  companyheld  a large number of shares in other companies,  and	 wasrealising  its	holdings and acquiring new shares.   In	 thebackground  of those facts, it was held by a Bench  of	fiveJudges of this Court, that the profits made from the sale ofinvestments  and  the  making  of  fresh  investments,	wereassessable  to income-tax.  In the course of  his  judgment,Patanjali  Sastri, C. J., speaking for the Court,  made	 thefollowing  very	 pertinent  observations:,,  The   principleapplicable in all such cases is well(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 167, 170,171.676settled	 and the question always is whether the sales  whichproduced the surplus were so connected with the carrying  onof the assessee's business that it could fairly be said thatthe  surplus is the profits and gains of such business.	  Itis not necessary that the surplus Should have resulted	fromsuch  a course of dealing in securities as by  itself  wouldamount	to  the	 carrying on of a  business  of	 buying	 andselling	 securities.  It would be enough if such sales	wereeffected in the usual course of carrying on the business or,in  the	 words	used  by the Privy  Council  in	 Punjab	 Co-operative Bank Ltd. v. Income Tax Commissioner, Lahore	(1),if  the	 realisation  of  securities is	 a  normal  step  incarrying on the assessee's business.  Though that case aroseout of the assessment of a banking business, the test is oneof  general application in determining whether	the  surplusarising	 out of such transactions is a capital receipt or  atrading profit."But the learned counsel for the Respondent Bank argued	thatin  the	 present case, the earning of rental income  by	 theBank could not come within s. 10 of the- Income-tax Act, andthe definition of " business " in the Act and in the Income-tax Act, in so far as they are relevant to the present case,must be the same.  In other words, it was contended that  asrealisation of rents from house property of the Bank,  couldnot come within the purview of s. 10 of the Income-tax	Act,it could not also come within the purview of the Act we	 arenow  concerned with.  In my opinion, there is a	 fallacy  inthis argument.	The scheme of the two Acts is not the  same.The Income-tax Act has brought within its taxing ambit,	 notonly  income  from what is ordinarily called  business,	 butincome from several other sources.  Sections 3 and 4 of	 theIncome-tax  Act render liable to tax " all  income,  profitsand  gains from whatever source derived ", and s. 6  of	 theIncome-tax  Act, classifies the different heads	 of  income,profits	 and  gains  into (1) salaries, and  the  manner  ofcharging  the  same is laid down in s. 7 ; (2)	interest  onsecurities, and the manner of charging the tax is laid	downin s. 8 (3) income. from property, to be taxed in(1)  (1940) A. C. I055 ; [1940] 81. T. R. 635.		      67accordance with the provisions of s. 9; and (4) profits	 andgains from business, profession or avocation, to be taxed inaccordance with the provisions of s. 10.  The fifth and	 thesixth  heads  of  income may be	 omitted  from	the  presentdiscussion.   On the other band, under the Act in  question,only   tax  on	excess	profits,  arising  out	of   certainbusinesses, has been imposed.  The Act is not concerned withall kinds of income, but only with profits if made beyond  acertain	 standard  laid down under the	Act,  from  businessdescribed  in s. 5. Under the Act, the ambit of the  term  "business  " covers the fourth head, though not the whole  ofit,  as also the second and the third heads, set out  above,again  though not, perhaps, the whole of them.	It  is	not,therefore,  correct to say that what would not	come  withinthe  ambit  of s. 10 of the Income-tax Act, would  also	 notcome within the ambit of the Act.  On a proper	constructionof  the	 provisions of the Act, it has got to be  held	thatwhat has been covered by ss. 8, 9 and 10, at least in parts,of the Income-tax Act, comes within the purview of the	Act.This  is  not  intended to be a complete  statement  of	 thecomparative  ambits  of the two Acts, but it  is  enough  todispose of the argument that business, as understood  tinderthe Act, is completely covered by the provisions of s. 10 ofthe Income-tax Act.In this connection, another argument advanced by the learnedcounsel for the respondent, as an additional reason for	 nottreating  rental income as Coming within the purview of	 theAct,  may now be considered.  It was argued that  the  firstproviso to s. 2(5), set out above, would become redundant ifrental	income were to be covered by the main clause of	 thedefinition.  This argument again ignores some of the crucialwords  of  the	proviso.  It speaks only  of  "	 holding  ofinvestments or other property ", which is not the same thingas dealing with shares, investments or other property.	Thisproviso	 was, perhaps, inserted out of abundant	 caution  torepel  arguments,  like those advanced in the  case  of	 TheCommissioners of Inland Revenue v. The Tyre Investment TrustLtd.   (1)  In	that  case,  the  Respondent   Company	 wasincorporated in 1917, with the(I)  [1924] 12 T.C, 646.678main objects of acquiring and holding shares, etc., and	 wasformed mainly with a view to acquiring shares in two foreigncompanies  and selling them to an English Company which	 waslikely	to  be	interested in them.   After  the  RespondentCompany had purchased the shares, it took an active interestin  the	 affairs  of  those  two  companies,  and  in  1920,negotiations  were proceeding for the sale of those  shares.The Company was assessed to Excess Profits Duty.  On appeal,the Special Commissioners accepted the argument on behalf ofthe Company that it was not carrying on a trade or  businesswithin	the meaning of the taxing statute, and that  it	 wasonly a holding company and stood in the same position as  anindividual who had acquired and held investments.  On appealby  the	 Revenue, it was held in the King's  Bench  Divisionthat  the  principal business of the  Company  consisted  ofmaking investments, and was, therefore, liable toExcess Profits Duty.In support of the second branch of his argument that  rentalincome was not included in " business ", the learned counselfor  the respondent called our attention to the decision  ofthis  Court in The United Commercial Bank Ltd., Calcutta  v.The  Commissioner  of  Income-tax,  West  Bengal,  (1)	withspecial reference to the observations at p. 97 to the effectthat  various heads of income, profits and gains, under	 theIncome-tax Act, must be held to be mutually exclusive,	eachhead  having  been meant to cover income from  a  particularsource.	 The case before their Lordships was concerned	withthe  question  of set-off of the carried over  loss  of	 theprevious year.	That case was not in any way concerned	withthe  provisions	 of  the  statute now  before  us.   It	 wasconcerned  only with the scheme of the Income-tax Act,	withparticular  reference to the classification of	income	intodifferent heads.  That case does not throw any light on	 theinterpretation of theterm " business ".In  view of the considerations set forth above, it  must  beheld  that the realisation of rental income by the  assesseeBank, was in the course of its business in(1)  [1958] S.C.R. 79.679prosecution of one of the objects in its Memorandum it	was,therefore,  liable to be included in its  business  profits,and thus, was assessable to Excess Profits Tax.	 The  appealmust, therefore, be allowed with costs here and below.KAPUR,	J.-I have read the judgment prepared by	 my  learnedbrother	 Sinha, J., but I respectfully disagree with it	 andmy reasons are these:The  sole  question  for decision is whether a	sum  of	 Rs.86,000/-  received by the respondent during  the  chargeableaccounting  period  ending March 31, 1946, as  rent  of	 itsbuilding  at Calcutta can be included in the profits of	 itsbusiness  for  the  purposes of	 Excess	 Profits  Tax.	 Therespondent-the	assessee-was a banking company which at	 onetime did considerable banking business but it has gone	intoliquidation.   it  owned  a  six  storeyed  building  in   acommercial locality of Calcutta.  During the relevant periodit was occupying the ground floor and a portion of the sixthfloor  and  had	 let out the rest to tenants  for  which  itreceived  the  sum  of Rs. 86,000/- as rent,  which  is	 theamount Dow in controversy-The liability of this sum to Excess Profits Tax depends uponthe interpretation of the relevant provisions of the  ExcessProfits	 Tax  Act  Act XV of 1940) (which for  the  sake  ofbrevity will hereinafter be termed the Act).  The object  ofthe  Act was to impose a tax on excess profits which as	 thevery  name implies must have reference to and be the  resultof  a business activity.  Such profits for the	purposes  ofthe  Act were to be computed in the manner provided  by	 theAct.  The scheme of the Act is as follows:-Section	 2  is the definition section ; s.  4  the  chargingsection	 and  s. 5 deals with the application  of  the	Act.Section	 6 is a provision for determining  standard  profitsand their computation.	Excess Profits Tax was chargeable onthe  excess  of	 profits during	 the  chargeable  accountingperiod	over the standard profits, i.e., profits during	 thestandard period.  Section 5 of the Act provides:-This Act shall apply to every business of which680any   part  of	the  profits  made  during  the	  chargeableaccounting  period is chargeable to income-tax by virtue  ofthe  provisions	 of  sub-clause (i) or	sub-clause  (ii)  ofclause	(b)  of sub-section (1) of section 4 of	 the  IndianIncome-tax Act 1922.............."The  charging  section under the Act is s. 4,  the  relevantportion of which is:"Charge	 of tax: (1) Subject to the provisions of this	Act,there  shall, in respect of any business to which  this	 Actapplies, be charged, levied and paid on the amount by  whichthe  profits during any chargeable accounting period  exceedthe  standard  profits............ Thus the Act	 applies  toevery  business,  any  part  of the  profits  of  which	 arechargeable  to	income-tax  (s. 5) and	in  respect  of	 anybusiness to which the Act is applicable, excess profits	 taxshall  be  chargeable  on the amount by	 which	the  profitsduring the charge. able accounting period exceed the profitsduring	the  standard period (s. 4).  It is  in	 respect  ofthose  profits	that  the  tax is  exigible.   In  order  todetermine  whether  income  received  during  a	  chargeableaccounting period is for the purposes of the Act " profits "arising	 out of " Business " or not it becomes necessary  toexamine what these words, i.e., " Business " and " profits "mean.	Section	 2(5)  of the Act defined "  Business  "  asfollows:-" Business ' includes any trade, commerce or manufacture  orany   adventure	 in  the  nature  of  trade,   commerce	  ormanufacture  or	 any profession or vocation,  but  does	 notinclude	 a  profession	carried on by an  individual  or  byindividuals in partnership if the profits of the  professiondepend	 wholly	  or  mainly  on  his  or   their   personalqualifications	unless	such profession consists  wholly  ormainly in the making of contracts on behalf of other personsor  the	 giving to other persons of advice of  a  commercialnature in connection with the making of contracts:Provided  that	where  the functions of a company  or  of  asociety	 incorporated  by or under  any	 enactment  consistswholly	or  mainly in the holding of  investments  or  otherproperty,  the holding of the investments or property  shallbe deemed for the purpose of681this definition to be a business carried on by such  companyor society:Provided further that all business to which this Act appliescarried	 on  by	 the same person shall	be  treated  as	 onebusiness for the purposes of this Act ".The definition of " business " in the main section, i.e., s.2(5) is analogous to the definition of " business " as givenin s. 2(4) of the Income Tax Act; but proviso (1) to s. 2(5)of the Act enlarges the scope of the word " business" in thecase  of  companies  and societies  incorporated  under	 anyenactment.   The " words " deemed to be ". make something  "business  which	 otherwise it would not have been.   In	 thecase  of  an incorporated company therefore  business  undertile Act is not merely any trade, commerce or manufacture orany   adventure	 in  the  nature  of  trade,   commerce	  ormanufacture  but  also that which is deemed to	be  businessunder proviso (1) which makes the holding of investments  orother  property	 by  an	 incorporated  Society	or   companybusiness   if  one  of	the  following	two  conditions	  isfulfilled, e.g.,(1)  If	 its  functions	 consist wholly	 or  mainly  in	 theholding	  of investments; or(2)  If	 its  functions	 consist wholly	 or  mainly  in	 theholding of other property.It is manifest from this that in the absence of the  proviso(1)  to	 s.  2(5) of the Act the word  "  business  "  wouldcomprise  no  function beyond what it  comprises  under	 theIncome	Tax  Act  and.	such functions	as  the	 holding  ofinvestments  or the holding of other property  would  escapethe operation of the Act.  The heads of income falling unders. 6 (ii), 6 (iii) and 6 (v) of the Income Tax Act, i.e., ofinterest on securities, and income from property and  incomefrom  other sources are not business in the  Income-tax	 Actand  would  not be business within the Act.  This  Court  inUnited	Commercial Bank Ltd. v. Commissioner  of  Income-tax(1)  held that the heads of income mentioned in s. 6 of	 theIncome-tax  Act	 are  mutually exclusive,  each	 head  beingspecific to cover the item(1)  [1958]S.C.R. 79.86682arising	 from  a  particular source and	 therefore  even  ifsecurities  are held as trading assets or dealt with in	 thecourse	of a business by a banker or a dealer in  securitiesthe  interest must be charged and computed under the head  "Interest on securities" under s. 8 of the Income-tax Act andnot as business profits under s. 10 of that Act.  This widerconnotation  of the word " business" in the Act was  clearlyintended   to  bring  within  its  net	those	incorporatedsocieties and companies which otherwise would or might	haveescaped	 it.  One such company would be a  trust  investmentcompany	 whose	business is the holding of  investments	 andgetting profit therefrom.  Such a company cannot be said  tobe  carrying  on  business, i.e.,  any	trade,	commerce  ormanufacture within the meaning of the main provision,  i.e.,s. 2(5) but it is the proviso which makes it clear that typeof  a,	company	 is included and its operations	 are  to  beregarded  as  carrying	on  of 'a "  business  ".  See	alsoCOmmissioners  of  Inland Revenue v. Desoutter	Bros.,	Ltd.(1).   Another	such company or society would be  a  housingsociety	 or  company which owns houses for  the	 purpose  ofletting	 on rent.  Such a company or society also cannot  besaid to be carrying on business within the definition in themain  sub-s.  (5) of s. 2. Under proviso  (1)  however	thatclass  of  company  or society would also be  deemed  to  becarrying on " business ". In both these cases their  profitswould  be  chargeable  to excess profits  tax.	The  word  "profits	 "  in	s.  2(19) of  the  Act	means  ,,profits  asdetermined  in	accordance with the  First  Schedule"  whichprovides  the method of computation of" profits", Rule 4  ofthis  Schedule deals with income from investments and is  asfollows:     "(SEE SECTION 2(19) )Rules for the computation of profits for purposes of  ExcessProfits Tax1.........................2.........................3...........................4.(1) ,Income received from investments shall be included inthe profits in the cases and to the(1) (1945) 29 T.C. 155, 160.683extent provided in sub-rules (2), (2A) and (4) of this	ruleand not otherwise.4(2).  In the case of the business of a building society, orof  a  money-lendidg business, banking	business,  insurancebusiness  or  business consisting wholly or  mainly  in	 thedealing	 in  or holding of investments,	 the  profits  shallinclude all income received from investments, whether or notsuch income is included in the profits charged under section10  of the Indian Income Tax Act, 1922, or is charged  underany  other  section of that Act, or has	 been  subjected  todeduction  of  tax at source or is free of  or	exempt	fromincome-tax ".(2A).	In the case of a business part of which consists  inbanking,  insurance or dealing in investments, not  being  abusiness  to  which sub-rule (2) of this rule  applies,	 theprofits	 shall include all income received from	 investmentsheld  for  the purpose of that part of the  business,  beingincome	to  which the persons carrying on the  business	 arebeneficially entitled ".Sub-rule  (1) deals with business which consists  wholly  ormainly	in the dealing in or holding of investments  in	 thecase  of various kinds of companies mentioned  and  sub-rule(2A) deals inter alia with banking business.  The respondentbeing a banking company its business essentially consists indealing with money and credit.	Such a company has always tokeep  cash  or realizable securities  and  other  realisableinvestments  in order to meet withdrawals by depositors	 andthe  holding of such securities and other investments  wouldbe the holding of " investments " and that is its normal andmain   activity.    Punjab   Co-operative   Bank   Ltd.	  v.Commissioner of Income-tax, Punjab (1).	 See also s. 277F ofthe Indian Companies Act which is now a part of the  BankingCompanies Act.	Therefore the respondent qua the holding  ofinvestments  of	 this kind, was carrying on  business  underproviso (1) to s. 2(5) of the Act but it is not that kind ofbusiness which is the subject matter of controversy in	thisappeal.	  What we have to decide is was the income  receivedas rents from the portion of the respondents'(1)  [1940] 8 I.T.R. 635 (P.C.).684Calcutta  building which was not required by the  respondentfor  its own purposes and let out on hire profit  within  s.2(19) and chargeable under s. 4 of the Act.Two  arguments	were addressed in favour of  the  contentionthat such income was profits of business within the Act: (1)that  the laying out of money in a  multi-storeyed  buildingwas  itself an investment and (2) that even if the  businessconsisted partly in letting out of property the income	fromthat property was profit within the Act.In support of the first submission it was argued that one ofthe objects in Memorandum of Association was the acquisitionof   immoveable	 property  which  the  company	 may   thinkconvenient for the purpose of its business and therefore theconstruction of a multistoreyed building would itself be  aninvestment.  Reference was made to cl. (e) of the Memorandumof Association which relates to acquisition of moveable	 andimmoveable  property.	This clause is as follows:"  (e)  Topurchase, take on lease or in exchange or otherwise  acquireany  moveable  or  immoveable  property.....................which the Company may think necessary or convenient for	 thepurpose	 of  its business, and to  construct,  maintain	 andalter any building or works necessary or convenient for	 thepurpose of the Company ".Now  this  argument  loses  sight  of  the  fact  that	 theLegislature has chosen to use two words " investments "	 and" other property " with a disjunctive " or " in between.  Toboth  these  words  a meaning must be  assigned	 because  itcannot be said that one or the other of them is redundant orthey  mean the same thing.  "Investments" has  been  definedthus:  " something acquired as a result of laying out  moneyis an investment: Commissioners of Inland Revenue v.'  RollsRoyce  Ltd.  (1)  but this general test as a  test  was	 notaccepted in a later case, Commissioners of Inland Revenue v.Desoutter Bros.	 Ltd. (2) at p. 161 where Lord Greene said:-" Speaking for myself, I am always disinclined to(I) (1941) 29 T. C. I4.(2) (1945) 29 T. C. 155, 160.685accept	any  general definition or test for the	 purpose  ofsolving this type of question.	The question whether or	 nota  particular  piece of income is income  received  from  aninvestment must, in my view, be decided on the facts of	 thecase".In every case the facts have to be ascertained and then	 thequestion can be determined. whether the profits arising froma particular function are business profits within the Act ornot.   As above stated the essential function of  a  bankingcompany	 consists in money and credit and to carry  on	suchfunctions it has to hold investments which under the Income-tax Act would fall under ss. 8 and 12.	See also s. 277F  ofthe  Companies Act of 1913 which is now incorporated in	 theBanking	 Companies Act.	 Property is a	word		  ofwide  connotation  and'	 includes  moveable  and  immoveableproperties, all interests therein and even investments wouldfall  within  that  word but in the  context  it  would	 notcomprise " investments ".If  a  Banking Company as in the present case  constructs  amulti-storeyed	building used a part of it and lets out	 therest it cannot be said 'to carry on " business " unless	 itsmain function is the holding of property and we have alreadyseen that the main function of a Banking Company is  dealingin money or credit and for that purpose it holds investmentsin the form of easily realisable securities.  Merely becausefor  the  carrying out of its functions	 a  Banking  Companyconstructs  a  building its functions will not	change	fromthat  of a Banking Company into one of a company engaged  inthe letting out of property on hire.As the Excess Profits Tax is a taxing measure and the objectof the Act also is to tax excess profits it is reasonable tosay  that the words " investment " and " property " as	usedin the case of a Banking Company are used. in the same senseas they are used in the Income-tax Act but if their  holdingby  the company is its sole or main function then they	willbe  deemed to be business so as to make the  income  derivedtherefrom chargeable to excess profits tax even if otherwisethey686would  not have been so chargeable.  The two enactments	 arein  pari materia and are intended to charge tax	 on  income,profits and gains only the Act is confined to " profits " of" business" as therein defined and income-tax is  chargeableon  all incomes,- profits and gains.  If the mere owning  ofimmoveable  property and letting out that portion which	 wasnot  needed for its own use by a company was intended to  becovered by the definition then the use of the word wholly ormainly would be wholly redundant.  In construing the provisoeffect has to be given to every word used.The word " functions " is defined in the dictionary to	mean"  activities appropriate to any business"' and if  that  issubstituted in the proviso to s. 2(5) it would read "  wherethe activities appropriate to any business.........  consistwholly	or  mainly in the holding Of  investments  or  otherproperty  ".  So read, can it be said  that  the  activitiesappropriate  to the business of a banking  company  consistswholly or mainly in the holding of a multi-storeyed buildingor  such other property for the purpose of letting  out	 theunused	portion	 on hire.  Obvious answer to  this  questionwould  be  in  the  negative.  It  is  manifest	 that  rentsreceived  from	the multi-storeyed property are	 not  incomereceived  from a " business " within the Act.  It is  not  atrading	 receipt in the case of banking company.  Under	 theIncome-tax  Act it falls under s. 9 and there is nothing  toindicate in the definition of the word " business " as givenin  the	 main portion of s. 2(5) of the Act that  it  has  adifferent   complexion	 there.	  In  the  case	  of   hotelproprietors  it has been held that compensation paid by	 theCrown for requisitioning, during the war, of hotel  premisesis not its trading profits.  Salisbury House Estate Ltd.  v.Fry  (1)  ; Mellows v. Buxton Palace Hotel Ltd. (2  ).	Evenunder  the enactment imposing Profits Tax  corresponding  toour  Excess  Profits  Tax  it was  held	 not  to  be  incomereceivable    from   "investments   or	 other	  property".Commissioners of Inland Revenue v. Buxton palace Hotel	Ltd.(3).(1) (I 930) 15 T.C. 266.	(2) (1943) 25 T.C. 507.(3) (1948) 29 T.C. 329. 333.687But it was urged that sub-r. (4) of r. 4 of Schedule I	laysdown  a	 different method of computation and  qualifies	 thequalities  of  a  business when it  relates  to	 holding  ofproperty.  Sub-rule (4) of r. 4 is as follows:-" In the case of a business which consists wholly or  partlyin the letting out of property on hire, the income from	 theproperty  shall be included in the profits of  the  businesswhether	 or  not  it has been charged  to  income-tax  undersection	 9 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, or under	 anyother section of that Act".But before this rule becomes applicable the functions of thecompany	 have to fall within the definition of " Business  "as given in the Act.  The definition Schedule I is  confinedto computing of profits and has relation to s. 2(19) whereinit is mentioned.  It cannot be used to affect the quality ofthe  word  " business " as used in the Act.  It	 only  meansthat  when  the	 functions  of	a  company,  i.	 e.,  "	 theactivities  appropriate to any business " consist wholly  ormainly in the holding of " other property " then in the caseof  that  portion  of the business which  wholly  or  partlyconsists in the letting of property for hire the income fromthe  property shall be included in " profits " in  spite  ofthe fact that the income has been assessed under s. 9 of theIncome	Tax  Act.   It is a far step from  saying  that	 thedefinition  of " business " has been modified by sub-r.	 (4)of  r.	4.  It	relates to a  business	of  letting  out  ofproperty.   The	 word " business " can either mean  what  iscontained in the main provision in s. 2 (5) or the  extendedmeaning	 given	by the first proviso of	 that  section.	  Ineither	 case  it  is  inapplicable  to	 the  case  of	 therespondent.  It cannot be said that letting out of  propertyis either wholly or even partly " businessof the respondent.In my view the income received from rents of the portion  ofthe building let out on hire, i. e., Rs. 86,000/-, does	 notfall  within the word " profits " as used in the Act and  isnot  chargeable to Excess Profits Tax.	The judgment of	 theHigh  Court  is	 therefore sound and I	would  dismiss	thisappeal with costs.688HIDAYATULLAH,  J.-I  have had the advantage of	reading	 thejudgments  of my learned brothers, Sinha and Kapur,  JJ.   Iagree  with Sinha, J., that the appeal must be allowed	withcosts here and below.The  question  which  was referred for the  opinion  of	 theCalcutta  High Court was whether in this case rental  incomefrom  immovable	 property was part of  the  business  incometaxable under s. 2(5) read with r. 4 (4) of Sch.  I attachedto  the	 Excess Profits Tax Act, 1940.	In my  opinion,	 thequestion  must	be  answered  in  the  affirmative  for	 thefollowing reasons.The   Calcutta	 National  Bank,   Ltd.	  (in	liquidation)hereinafter  called the Bank, was doing business as a,	bankprior  to going into liquidation.  Its income,	it  appears,was  also subject to excess profits tax in the past, and  weare  concerned	in  the present	 case  with  the  chargeableaccounting  period  ending  March 31, 1946.   The  Bank	 hadconstructed  a six-storeyed building, of which	it  occupiedthe  ground and the top floors.	 The rest of it	 was  rentedout, and in the chargeable accounting period, rents totalingRs.  86,000/- were received by the Bank.  The question	was,as already stated, whether this rental income was chargeableto excess profits tax under the Act.  According to Kapur, J.the  renting out of a building was-not the business  of	 theBank within the definition of 'business.' in the Act.	Thisincome,	 therefore,  was not properly assessable  to  excessprofits tax.  Sinha, J.holds the contrary view.Under the Act, the charge of tax. is laid on any business towhich the Act applies.	The Act does not define I  business'exhaustively,  but  shows what may be included in  it.	 Thedefinition  follows to a point the definition given  in	 theIndian	Income-tax Act, but by a proviso which enlarges	 itsscope, provides as follows:"  Provided  that where the functions of a company or  of  asociety	 incorporated  by  or under  any  enactment  consistwholly	or  mainly in the holding of  investments  or  otherproperty,  the holding of the investments or property  shallbe  deemed  ?or	 the  purpose of this  definition  to  be  abusiness carried on by such company or society."689The charging section is s. 4, and it, shortly, provides thatthe  charge is laid on the amount by which the profits in  achargeable accounting period exceed the standard profits  ofa  business.  According to another definition, "I profits  "mean  profits  as determined in accordance  with  the  FirstSchedule  of the Act.  In the schedule which is	 enacted  aspart of the Act, r. 4 (4), to which reference has been	madein the question, reads as follows:" In the case of a business which consists wholly or  partlyin the letting out of property on hire, the income from	 theproperty  shall be included in the profits of  the  businesswhether	 or  not  it has been charged  to  income-tax  undersection	 9 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, or under	 anyother section of that Act."The difference between the definition of I business' and therule above quoted is that while the former mentions that thebusiness must be wholly or mainly holding of investments  orother property, the rule says that if the business  consistswholly	or partly of letting out of property, the income  ofthe property shall be included in the profits.Kapur,	J., is of the opinion that the business of the	Bankbeing  quite different, the rule cannot be made	 applicable,because the definition requires that the assessee's businessshould	be  wholly or mainly the holding of  investments  orother  property.   He  also thinks  that  there	 is  neitherholding of an investment nor of property as investment.The definition of the term I business' in the Act is helpfulwhere  it  applies,  but not being an  exhaustive  one.,  itcannot	shut  out  something  which  can  be   appropriatelydescribed  as  a business.  Even the opening  words  of	 thedefinition  show  that	it is meant to	cover  most  of	 theactivities  designed to produce income or profits  or  gain.Under  the Memorandum of Association, the Bank	can  acquireproperty,  just as it acquires investments for	purposes  ofits  business  and even otherwise.  Clause (e)	enables	 theBank to purchase, take on lease or in exchange or  otherwiseacquire any moveable or immoveable property, which the Bank87690may consider necessary or convenient for the purpose of	 itsbusiness and to construct, maintain and alter any  buildingsor  works  necessary or convenient for the  purpose  of	 theBank.	The  acquisition  of a	sixstoreyed    building	 was,therefore, within the terms of the Memorandum, and the	onlyquestion is whether the income from such building, if rentedout,  can  be taken as profits of the Bank for	purposes  ofexcess profits tax.The definition mentions the holding of investments or  otherproperty, and the words " other property " must	 necessarilytake  their  colour from what precedes, that is	 to  say,  "investments ". The holding of other property must itself  beinvestment  for earning profits; otherwise,  the  definitiondoes not apply.	 The word I investments' is a word of  largeimport.	  In one sense, every mode of application  of  one'smoney intended to yield a return by way of interest,  incomeor  profit is investment.  When the Bank builds	 a  buildingmore  than  necessary to house itself and with a  desire  toearning	 rents	from  it,  it  cannot  but  be	stated	thatthe  building was constructed as an investment, or in  otherwords,	the Bank was holding " other property "	 within	 themeaning	 of the definition, in addition to  the	 investmentswhich it is the normal business of the Bank to hold.  In  myopinion,  the income from the property would be regarded  asprofits	 from property held as investment, and	the  profitswill have to be calculated, as laid down in Sch. 1, r. 4(4).The only difficulty is in the change of language between thedefinition  and the rule, inasmuch as the former  speaks  ofthe  business  which  is wholly or  mainly  the	 holding  ofinvestments  or other property, and the latter speaks  of  apart  of  the business being the letting  out  of  property.Kapur, J., is of the view that the section defining the wordI  business' must prevail, because the Schedule is  enacted.only for the purpose of computing the profits, as laid	downin the definition   and	 as  the  heading  f  the   Scheduleshows.That there    is a difference between the Schedule andthe Act is     not  to	be  denied, and	 the  question	thatnaturally falls for consideration is whether the691Schedule  should  be given effect to  independently  in	 thecircumstances  of the case.  The Schedule really tends'	 forthe  purposes  of collection, to widen the definition  of  abusiness  to  include any letting of  property	for  earningrents.	The rule to be applied was stated by Lord Sterndale,M. R., in Inland Revenue Commissioners v. Gittus (1) in	 thefollowing words:"  It  seems  to me there are two  principles  or  rules  ofinterpretation which ought to be applied to the	 combinationof  Act and schedule.  If the Act says that the schedule  isto be used for a certain purpose and the heading of the partof the schedule in question shows that it is prima facie  atany rate devoted to that purpose, then you must read the Actand  the schedule as though the schedule were operating	 forthat  purpose,	and if you can satisfy the language  of	 thesection	 without extending it beyond that purpose you  oughtto do it.  But if in spite of that you find in the  languageof the schedule words and terms that go clearly outside thatpurpose, then you must give effect to them and you must	 notconsider them as limited by the heading of that part of	 theschedule  or by the purpose mentioned in the Act  for  whichthe  schedule is prima facie to be used.  You cannot  refuseto  give effect to clear words simply because'	prima  faciethey  seem to be limited by the heading of the schedule	 andthe  definition of the purpose of the schedule contained  inthe Act.  "In my opinion, the second of the. two propositions laid downby  Lord Sterndale, M. R., applies to the exposition of	 theSchedule,  with which we are concerned.	 It may	 be  pointedout that the decision of Lord Sterndale, M. R., was acceptedby  the	 House	of  Lords  without  question  in  Gittus  v.Commissioners  of  Inland Revenue(1) in an appeal  from	 thedecision of the Court of Appeal in the earlier case.Though the heading of the Schedule and the definition of theword 'profits' show that the Schedule is designed to  assistin the computation of profits, the mention of other kinds ofbusinesses  in r. 4, taken with an incomplete definition  ofthe term in the Act, clearly(I) (1930) 1 K.B. 563. 576.(2) (1921) 2 A. C. 81.692shows  that the legislature was defining the term  business'as  and	 when  necessary,  as it laid  down  the  rules	 forcalculation  of	 profits of a business.	  It  was  includingdifferent kinds of businesses within the Act and  indicatinghow  in those cases the profits had to be calculated.  I  donot  think that the definition given in the Act can be	saidto  control  everything	 in the Schedule, in  spite  of	 thedefinition  of	I  profits' and the  heading  given  to	 theSchedule.   As	I  have said above, the second	of  the	 twoalternatives is really applicable to the present case.For these reasons and those given by my brother, Sinha,	 J.,I  hold that this appeal should be allowed with	 costs	hereand below.BY  THE	 COURT.-In  accordance	with  the  judgment  of	 themajority,  the	decision under appeal is set aside  and	 theappeal is allowed with costs here and below.