PETITIONER:RADHA SUNDAR DUTTA	Vs.RESPONDENT:MOHD.  JAHADUR RAHIM AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:18/09/1958BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1959 AIR   24		  1959 SCR 1309 CITATOR INFO : R	    1973 SC2609	 (21)ACT:Grant-Construction-  Patni  settlement-Chaukidari   Chakaranlands-Resumption and transfer to Zamindar-Grant of the landsby  the Zamindar on Patni to Person who held the village  inPatni settlement-Distinct Patni-Sale of lands for arrears ofrevenue-Validity-Bengal Patni Taluks Regulation, 1819  (Ben.Regulation VIII of 1819), ss. 8, 14-Village Chaukidari	Act,1870 (Ben.  VI of 1870), ss. 48, 50, 51.HEADNOTE:The  lands in question are situate in lot Ahiyapur which  isone of the villages forming part of the permanently  settledestate	of  Burdwan  and had been set  apart  as  ChaukidariChakaran  lands to be held by the Chaukidars  for  renderingservice	 in  the village as watchmen.  At the  time  of	 thepermanent  settlement  the income from these lands  was	 nottaken into account in fixing the jama payable on the estate.Some  time before the enactment of the Bengal  Patni  TaluksRegulation, 1819, the entire village of Ahiyapur was grantedby the then1310Zamindar  of  Burdwan, to the predecessors-in-title  of	 thedefendants  on	Patni  settlement.   In	 1870  the   VillageChaukidari  Act	 came  into  force  and	 acting	 under	 theprovisions  of	that Act the Government put an	end  to	 theservices of the Chaukidars resumed the lands and imposed  anassessment  thereon,  and, subject to  it,  transferred	 thelands to the Zamindar.	On June 3, 899, the Zamindar grantedthe suit lands on Patni to the predecessors-in-title of	 thedefendants  who	 were  the then holders of  the	 village  inPatni.	 In  proceedings  taken by the	Zamindar  under	 theprovisions of the Bengal Patni Taluks Regulation, 1819,	 thesuit  lands  were brought to sale for arrears  of  rent	 andpurchased  by him.  On February I3, 1941, the Zamindar	soldthe  lands to the appellant who sued to	 recover  possessionthereof	 from the defendants.  The defendants  resisted	 thesuit on the ground, inter alia, that the effect of the grantof  the	 Chaukidari Chakaran lands on June 3, 1899,  was  tomake  them  part and parcel of the Patni settlement  of	 thevillage	 of Ahiyapur and that, in consequence, the  sale  ofthose lands, apart from the village of Ahiyapur, was bad  asbeing a sale of a portion of the Patni.Held, that when the Zamindar made a grant of the  ChaukidariChakaran  lands	 which formed part of a	 village  which	 hadpreviously been settled in Patni, it was open to the partiesto  agree  that those lands should form a new  and  distinctPatni  and  the result of such an agreement  would  be	thatwhile  the  grantee would hold those lands in  Patni  right,that  is  to  say,  that  the  tenure  would  be  permanent,heritable and alienable, so far as his liability to pay jamaand the corresponding right of the Zamindar to sell it underthe Regulation if there was a default in the payment thereofwere  concerned,  the new grant would be a  distinct  Patni,independent of the original Patni.Held, further, that construing the grant dated June 3,	899,as  a  whole,  the intention of	 the  parties  as  expressedtherein	 was that the Chaukidari Chakaran lands were  to  betreated as a distinct Patni and that, therefore, the sale ofthe lands for arrears of rent was valid.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 108 of 1954.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated March 21, 1952, ofthe Calcutta High Court in Appeal from Appellate Decree	 No.971  of 1950, arising out of the judgment and  decree  datedAugust	29, 1950, of the Court of District Judge  of  ZillahBurdwan in Title Appeal No. 247/16 of 1948 against  judgmentand  decree  dated  September  25, 1948,  of  the  Court  ofAdditional Sub-Judge, 1st Court, Burdwan, in Title Suit	 No.7 of 1946/27 of 1947.1311N.   C. Chatterjee and Sukumar Ghose, for the appellant.J.   N. Banerjee and P. K. Ghose, for the respondents.1958.	September  18.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byVENKATARAMA  AIYAR  J.-This is an appeal  by  the  plaintiffagainst	 the  judgment of the High Court of  Calcutta  in  asecond	appeal	which, in reversal of the judgments  of	 theCourts below dismissed his suit, which was one in ejectment.The  suit property is a Mahal of the extent of 84 Bighas  18Cottas situated within lot Ahiyapur village, which is one ofthe villages forming part of the permanently settled  estateof  Burdwan  Zamindari.	  This village was  granted  by	 theMaharaja of Burdwan in Patni settlement to the predecessors-in-title of defendants I to 7. The exact date of this  grantdoes not appear, but it is stated that it was sometime priorto the enactment of the Bengal Patni Taluks Regulation, 1819(Bengal Regulation VIII of 1819), hereinafter referred to asthe  Regulation,  and nothing turns on it.  The	 Mahal	withwhich this litigation is concerned, had been at or prior  tothe  permanent settlement set apart as	Chaukidari  Chakaranlands;	that  is  to  say,  they were  to  be  held  by	 theChaukidars for rendering service in the village as watchmen.In  1870,  the	Village Chaukidari Act, 1870  (Ben.   VI  of1870),	hereinafter referred to as the Act, was passed,	 ands.  48	of that Act provides that  all	Chaukidari  Chakaranlands  assigned	 for  the benefit of any  village  shall  betransferred to the zamindar of the estate in the manner	 andsubject	 to the provisions contained in the Act.   Under  s.50,   the   Collector  is  authorized  to  make	  an   ordertransferring  those lands to the Zamindar after	 determiningthe assessment payable thereon, and s. 51 enacts that:" Such order shall operate to transfer to such zamindar	 theland  therein mentioned subject to the amount of  assessmenttherein mentioned, and subject1312to all contracts theretofore made, in respect of, under,  orby  virtue of, which any person other than the zamindar	 mayhave  any  right  to any land, portion	of  his	 estate,  ortenure, in the place in which such land may be situate.	 "In  accordance	with  the  provisions  aforesaid,  the	suitproperties were transferred to the Maharaja of Burdwan,	 andon  June 3,1899, he granted the same to the predecessors-in-title of defendants I to 7, who at that time held the  Patniinterest in respect of lot Ahiyapur.  Under the grant  whichhas been marked as exhibit B, the yearly rental for the areawas  fixed at Rs. 126-8 as., out of which Rs. 84-4 as.,	 hadto  be paid to the Panchayat within the 7th of	Baisakh	 forbeing credited to the Chaukidari Fund and the balance of Rs.42-4 as., was to be paid to the Zamindar within the month ofChaitra.  Exhibit B also provides that in default of paymentof kist the lands are liable to be sold in proceedings takenunder the Bengal Regulation VIII of 1819.  Acting under thisclause, the Maharaja applied under s. 8 of the Regulation tobring the suit lands to sale for realisation of arrears, andat  the	 auction held on May 15, 1937,	himself	 became	 thepurchaser.  On February 13, 1941, he granted the lands againon Patni to the appellant, who filed the suit, out of  whichthe  present appeal arises, in the Court of the	 SubordinateJudge,	Burdwan,  to  recover possession  thereof  from	 thedefendants  alleging that they had trespassed thereon.	 Therespondents contested the suit on the ground that, in  fact,there were no arrears of rent due under Exhibit B, and	thatthe sale was therefore void.The  Subordinate Judge held that there were arrears of	rentdue  from the respondents, and that further as they had	 notsued  to  set aside the sale under s. 14 of  the  Regulationwithin	the time limited by law, they could not set  up	 itsinvalidity  as	a defence to the action in  ejectment.	 Thedefendants preferred an appeal against this judgment to	 theDistrict Court of Burdwan, and there raised a new contentionthat under the grant, Exhibit B, the suit lands became	partof lot Ahiyapur, and that a sale of those lands was1313illegal	 as  being a sale of a portion of  the	Patni.	 TheDistrict Judge after observing that the point was taken	 forthe first time, held on a construction of Exhibit B that  itcreated a new Patni, and that it could therefore be  broughtto  sale,  and	he also held that s. 14	 of  the  Regulationoperated  as  a	 bar  to the  validity	of  the	 sale  beingquestioned  on the ground that the rent claimed was not,  infact,  due.   He  accordingly  dismissed  the  appeal.	 Therespondents  took  the matter in second appeal to  the	HighCourt, and that was heard by a Bench consisting of Das Guptaand Lahiri JJ. who differed from the District Judge both  onthe  construction of Exhibit B and on the bar of  limitationbased on s. 14 of the Regulation.  They held that the effectof  Exhibit  B was merely to make the suit  lands  part	 andparcel	of the Patni lot Ahiyapur, and that, therefore,	 thesale of those lands only was bad, as being a sale of a	partof  the	 Patni.	 They further held that as such a  sale	 wasvoid,  s.  14 of the Regulation had  no	 application.	Theyaccordingly allowed the appeal, and dismissed the suit.	  Itis  against this judgment that the present appeal  has	beenbrought	 on  a certificate granted by the High	Court  underArt. 133(1)(a).Mr.  N. C. Chatterjee for the appellant urged the  followingcontentions in support of the appeal: (1) The defendants didnot  raise  either in the written statement  or	 during	 thetrial,	the  plea  that	 under the  sanad,  Exhibit  B,	 theChaukidari  Chakaran lands comprised therein became part  ofthe  Patni settlement of lot Ahiyapur, and, in	consequence,their sale was bad as being of a part of the Patni, and	 thelearned	 Judges	 should not have allowed that  point  to  beraised	in appeal. (2) Exhibit B properly construed must  beheld  to create a new Patni distinct from lot Ahiyapur,	 andits  sale is therefore valid. (3) Assuming that the sale  isinvalid	 as being of a part of a tenure, the only  right  ofthe defendants was to sue to have it set aside, as  providedin  s. 14 of the Regulation, and that not having been  done,it  is not open to them to attack it collaterally  in  theseproceedings.We see no substance in the first contention.  It is1314true  that the defendants did not put forward in  the  trialCourt  the  plea  that	the  effect  of	 Exhibit  B  was  toincorporate the suit lands in lot Ahiyapur Patni, and  that,in  consequence, the sale was illegal as being of a part  ofthe  Patni.   On  the  other  hand,  the  written  statementproceeds  on  the view that Exhibit B created  a  new  Patniunconnected  with lot Ahiyapur, and the only defence  raisedon  that  basis was that no arrears of rent were  due  underExhibit B, and that the sale was therefore invalid.  But thetrue  nature of the grant under Exhibit B is a matter to  bedecided on a construction of the terms of the document,	 andthat  is a question of law.  It is argued for the  appellantthat it would be proper in determining the true character ofthe  grant under Exhibit B to take into account	 surroundingcircumstances,	that to ascertain what	those  circumstancesare,  it  will be necessary to take evidence, and  that,  inconsequence, a question of that kind could not be  permittedto  be	agitated for the first time in appeal.	 But  it  iswell-settled that no evidence is admissible on a question ofconstruction  of  a contract or grant, which must  be  basedsolely	on  the	 terms	of  the	 document,  there  being  nosuggestion before us that there is any dispute as to how thecontents  of  the document are related	to  existing  facts.Vide Balkishen Das v. Legge (1) and Maung Kyin v. Ma Shwe La(2).   It  should,  moreover, be  mentioned  that  when	 thedefendants  sought to raise this contention in their  appealin  the	 District  Court,  no objection	 was  taken  by	 theplaintiff  thereto.   Under the circumstances,	the  learnedJudges were right in allowing this point to be taken.	Thiscontention must therefore be rejected.The next point for determination is as to the true characterof  the grant under Exhibit B, whether it amounts to  a	 newPatni  with  reference to the Chaukidari Chakaran  lands  ascontended  for by the appellant, or whether it	incorporatesthose lands in the Patni of lot Ahiyapur, so as to make thempart  and  parcel  of the lands	 comprised  therein,  as  ismaintained by the respondents.	To appreciate the(1) (1899) L.R. 27 I.A. 58, 65.(2) (1917) L.R- 44 I.A. 236, 243.1315true position, it is necessary to examine what the rights ofthe  Zamindar  and  of the Patnidar  were  with	 respect  toChaukidari Chakardan lands at the time of the grant, ExhibitB. These lands had been originally set apart as remunerationfor the performance of services by the village chaukidars aswatchmen,  and for that reason when the village was  grantedto   the  Zamindar  in	permanent  settlement,	the   incometherefrom  was	not taken into account in  fixing  the	jamapayable	 by  him,  though  they	 passed	 to  him  under	 thepermanent settlement.  Then came the Village Chaukidari Act,and under that Act the Government put an end to the servicesof the Chaukidars as village watchmen, resumed the lands andimposed assessment thereon, and, subject to it,	 transferredthem  to  the Zamindar; and where the Zamindar	had  alreadyparted with the village in which the lands were situate,  bygranting Patni, it became necessary to define the rights  ofthe Zamindar and the Patnidar with reference to those lands.Dealing with this matter, s. 51 of the Act provides that thetitle  of  the Zamindar on resumption and  transfer  by	 theGovernment  shall be subject to " all contracts	 theretoforemade  ". Under this section, the Patnidar would be  entitledto  the Chaukidari Chakaran lands in the same right  and  onthe  same terms on which lie held the village in which	theyare situate.  The nature of this right has been the  subjectof consideration in numerous authorities, and the law on thesubject is well-settled.  In Ranjit Singh v. Maharaj BahadurSingh (1), it was held by the Privy Council that though	 thereservation under s. 51 is of rights under contracts made bythe  Zamindar  and the word " contract " primarily  means  atransaction  which  creates personal obligations,  it  mightalso  refer  to transactions which create real	rights,	 andthat  it was in that sense the word was used in s.  51,	 andthat  accordingly the Patnidar was entitled to	institute  asuit against the Zamindar for possession of those lands	 andwas not obliged to suit for specific performance.  But	thisdoes not mean that the Patnidar is(1) (1918) L.R. 45 I.A. 162.1671316entitled  to hold the lands free of all obligations.  He  isunder a liability to pay to the Zamindar the assessment	 duethereon,  when it is fixed under s. 50, and also a share  ofprofits.  Vide Bhupendra Narayan Singh v. Narapat Singh (1),where it was held by the Privy Council that when  ChaukidariChakaran  lands	 included  in a Patni  settlement  had	beenresumed	 and transferred to the Zamindar under s. 51 of	 theAct,  he is entitled to the payment of a fair and  equitablerent in respect thereof, and that the fixing of the rent  isa  condition to the Patnidar being put in possession.	Videalso  Rajendra Nath Mukherjee v. Hiralal Mukherjee  (2)	 andGopendra Chandra v. Taraprasanna (3).These  being the rights and obligations of the Zamindar	 andthe  Patnidar  under  s.  51 of the  Act,  a  grant  of	 theChaukidari  Chakaran  lands  by the  former  to	 the  latterserves,	 in  fact,  two purposes.  It  recognises  that	 thegrantee	 is  entitled to hold those lands by virtue  of	 histitle  as Patnidar of the village of which they	 form  part,and  it	 fixes	the  amount payable by	him  on	 account  ofassessment  and share of profits.  The question then  arisesas to what the exact relationship is in which the new  grantstands to the original Patni grant.  Now, when s. 51 of	 theAct  recognises	 and saves rights which	 had  been  acquiredunder contract with the Zamindar, its reasonable implicationis  that the rights so recognised are the same as under	 thecontract,  and that, in consequence, the settlement  of	 theChaukidari  Chakaran  lands in Patni must be taken to  be  acontinuance  of the Patni of the village in which  they	 areincluded.   But it is open to the parties to agree that	 theChaukidari  Chakaran  lands should form a new  and  distinctPatni,	and  the result of such an agreement  will  be	thatwhile the grantee will hold those lands in Patni right, thatis  to	say,  the tenure will be  permanent,  heritable	 andalienable  so  far  as his liability to	 pay  jama  and	 thecorresponding  right  of the Zamindar to sell it  under	 theRegulation if there is any default in the(1) (1925) L.R. 52 I.A. 355.  (2) (1906) 14 C.W.N. 995.(3) (1910) I.L.R. 37 Cal. 598.1317payment	 thereof  are concerned, the now grant	will  be  anentity	by itself independent of the original  Patni.	Thatthat could be done by agreement of parties is  well-settled,and  is	 not  disputed	before us.   If	 that  is  the	trueposition,  then the real question to be considered is,	whatis the agreement of parties with reference to the ChaukidariChakaran  lands,  whether they are to be constituted  as  anindependent  Patni  or whether they should be treated  as  acontinuation of the original Patni or an accretion  thereto,and the answer to it must depend on the interpretation to beput on the grant.It  is	now  necessary to refer to  the	 material  terms  ofExhibit	 B  under which the Chaukidari Chakaran	 lands	weregranted to the predecessors of respondents I to 7. It beginsby  stating  that  the Patnidars of  lot  Ahiyapur  appearedbefore the Zamindar and ,prayed for taking Patni  settlementof  the said 84 Bighas 18 Cottas of land at a yearly  rentalof Rs. 126/8 as.", and then provides how the amount is to bepaid.	Then  there  is	 the  following	 clause,  which	  isimportant:"You  will pay the rent etc., Kist after Kist  according  tothe Kistbandi in accordance with law, and if you do not	 paythe same, I will realise the arrears together with  interestand  costs  by	causing the aforesaid lands to	be  sold  byauction by instituting proceedings under Regulation VIII  of1819  and  other laws which are in force or will  come	intoforce......"Then  follow  provisions  relating to the  transfer  by	 thePatnidars  of  "  the  aforesaid  lands	 ",  succession	  byinheritance  or by will to " the aforesaid lands "  and	 theregistration  of the name of the transferee or successor  inthe  Sherista, and it is expressly stated that "so  long  asthe  name  of  the  new Patnidar  is  not  recorded  in	 theSherista, the former Patnidar whose name is recorded in	 theSherista  will remain liable for the rent, and on a sale  ofthe  Mahal by auction on institution of proceedings  againsthim under Regulation VIII of 1819 or any other law that willbe in force for realisation of arrears of rent, no objectionthereto on the Part of the new Patnidar can be entertained."1318Then ,there are two clause on which on the respondents rely,and they are in these terms:" If in future it transpires that any other persons  besidesyourselves  have Patni rights in the Patni interest of	the,said  lot Ahiyapur, such persons shall have Patni rights  inthese Chakaran lands also to the same extent and in the samemanner as they will be found to have interests in the  Patniof the aforesaid lot, and if for the said reason any  personputs  forward any claim against the Raj Estate and  the	 RajEstate	has to suffer any loss therefor, you will make	goodthe  said claim and the loss without any objection.   If  infuture	the  Patni  interest in the  said  lot	Ahiyapur  betransferred for liability for arrears of rent or if the samecomes to an end for any reason, then your Patni interest  inthese  Chakaran lands also will be transferred or will	cometo an end alongwith the original Patni ,simultaneously."It  is on these two clauses that the learned Judges  in	 theCourt below have based their decision that the intention  ofthe  par-ties  was to treat the suit lands as  part  of	 thePatni of lot Ahiyapur.	Now, it cannot be disputed that	 thetwo  clauses  aforesaid afford considerable support  to	 theconclusion to which the learned Judges have come.  The firstclause provides that if besides the grantee under Exhibit  Bthere  were  other persons entitled to Patni rights  in	 lotAhiyapur,  those  persons also shall have  Patni  rights  inChaukidari  Chakaran  lands to the same extent as  in  PatniAhiyapur.   That clearly means that the rights conferred  onthe  grantees under Exhibit B have their roots in the  Patnilot of Ahiyapur.  Likewise, the provision in the last clausethat  the grantees will lose their rights to the  ChaukidariChakaran lands if their interest in Ahiyapur Patni was	soldclearly suggests that the grant under Exhibit B is to be  anannexe to the grant of Ahiyapur.As against this, the appellant argues that the other clausesin  Exhibit B quoted above strongly support his	 contention,and  that  when	 the  document	is  read  as  a	 whole,	  itunmistakably reveals an intention to treat the suit lands asa distinct Patni.  We must now1319refer  to these clauses.  Exhibit B begins by reciting	thatthe grantees desired to take a Patni settlement of 84 Bighas18 Cottas, which is some indication, though not very strong,that  it is to be held as a distinct entity.  We  have	thenthe clause which provides that when there is default in	 thepayment	 of  kist,  the	 lands are  liable  to	be  sold  inproceedings  instituted under the Regulation.  Now, the	 lawhad long been settled that a sale of a portion of a Patni isbad, but that if by agreement of all the parties  interesteddifferent portions thereof are held under different  sadads,which provide for sale of those portions for default in pay-ment  of  kist payable respectively thereon,  then  each  ofthose sanads might be held to have created a separate  Patniin  respect of the portion comprised therein.  Vide  MohadebMundul v. Mr. H. Cowell(1) and Monomothonath Dev and anotherv.  Mr. G. Glascott (2).  When, therefore, the Zamindar	 andthe Patnidar agreed under Exhibit B that the lands comprisedtherein	 could be sold under the Regulation when  there	 wasdefault in payment of kist fixed therefor, they must clearlyhave intended that those lands should be constituted into  adistinct  Patni.  Otherwise, the clause will be	 inoperativeand void, and indeed, the learned Judges in the Court  belowhave, on that ground, declined to give any effect to it.Now, it is a settled rule of interpretation that if there beadmissible  two	 constructions of a document, one  of  whichwill give effect to all the clauses therein while the  otherwill  render one or more of them nugatory, it is the  formerthat  should  be adopted on the principle expressed  in	 themaxim  " ut res magis valeat quam per-eat ". What has to  beconsidered  therefore  is  whether it is  possible  to	giveeffect	to  the	 clause in question, which can	only  be  byconstruing  Exhibit B as creating a separate Patni,  and  atthe  same  time	 reconcile the last two	 clauses  with	thatconstruction.	Taking first the provision that if there  beother persons entitled to the Patni of lot Ahiyapur they areto have the same rights in the land comprised in Exhibit B,(2)  (1873) 20 Weekly Reporter 275.1320that no doubt posits the continuance in those persons of thetitle  under  the original Patni.  But the true	 purpose  ofthis  clause is, in our opinion, not so much to declare	 therights	of  those  other persons  which	 rest  on  statutoryrecognition,  but  to provide that the grantees	 tinder	 thedocument should take subject to those rights.  That that  isthe  purpose of the clause is clear from the  provision	 forindemnity  which is contained therein.	Moreover, if  on  aninterpretation	of  the	 other clauses	in  the	 grant,	 thecorrect conclusion to come to is that it creates a new Patniin favour of the grantees thereunder, it is difficult to seehow the reservation of the rights of the other Patnidars  oflot Ahiyapur, should such there be, affects that conclusion.We   are  unable  to  see  anything  in	 the  clause   underdiscussion,  which  militates against  the  conclusion	thatExhibit B creates a new Patni.Then there is the clause as to the cesser of interest of thegrantees  in the Chaukidari Chakaran lands when their  titleto  lot	 Ahiyapur  comes to an end,  and  according  to	 therespondents, this shows that under Exhibit B the  ChaukidariChakaran  lands	 are  treated  as part	and  parcel  of	 theAhiyapur  Patni.   If that were so, a sale of  lot  Ahiyapurmust carry with it the Chaukidari Chakaran lands, they beingex hypothesi, part and parcel thereof, and there was no needfor  a	provision such is is made in the last  clause.	 Butthat  clause would serve a real purpose if the	Patni  underExhibit	 B  is	construed  as  separate	 from  that  of	 lotAhiyapur.   In	that  view,  when the  major  Patni  of	 lotAhiyapur is sold, the intention obviously is that the  minorPatni  under  Exhibit  B,  should  not	stand  out  but	  beextinguished,-a	 result	 which could be achieved only  by  aspecial	 provision.  We should finally refer to the  clausesin Exhibit B providing for transfer of or succession to	 theChaukidari  Chakaran lands and for the recognition  of	suchtransferee or successor as a Patnidar of those lands.  It isclear  from  these  provision,s that such  a  transferee  orsuccessor is to hold the lands as a Patnidar, different fromthe  Patnidar of lot Ahiyapur.	Reading these clauses  alongwith  the last clause, it seems clear that the intention  ofthe parties1321was  that  while a transfer of the Ahiyapur  Patni  by	saleshould extinguish the title of the holders of the ChaukidariChakaran  lands	 a  transfer of these lands  would  have  noeffect	on the title to the lot Ahiyapur Patni.	  ConstruingExhibit B, as a whole, we are of opinion that the  intentionof the parties as expressed therein was that the  ChaukidariChakaran lands should be held as a distinct Patni.We  must  now  refer to the decision on	 which	the  learnedJudges	in the Court below have relied in support  of  theirconclusion.   In Kanchan Barani Debi v. Umesh  Chandra	(1),the  facts were that the Maharaja of Burdwan had  created  aPatni  of lot Kooly in 1820.  The Chaukidari Chakaran  landssituated within that village were resumed under the Act	 andtransferred to the Zamindar who granted them in 1899 to	 oneSyamlal	 Chatterjee  in Patni on terms similar to  those  inExhibit	 B. In 1914 the Patni lot Kooly was sold  under	 theRegulation,  and  purchased by Sint.  Kanchan  Barani  Debi.She then sued as such purchaser to recover possession of theChaukidari  Chakaran lands.  The defendants who	 representedthe grantees under the Patni settlement of 1899 resisted thesuit  on  the ground that the sale of Patni  Kooly  did	 notoperate to vest in the purchaser the title in the ChaukidariChakaran  lands, as they formed a distinct  Patni.   Dealingwith  this  contention,	 B. B. Ghose J.	 who  delivered	 thejudgment of the Court, observed :concerned  to alter the terms of the original patni if	theychose to do so; and what we have to see is whether that	 wasdone.  In order to do that, we have to examine the terms  ofthe  pattah  by	 which the Chaukidari  Chakaran	 lands	weregranted to Syamlal Chatterjee."The  learned  Judge  then refers to  the  two  clauses	cor-responding  to the last two clauses in Exhibit B, and  comesto  the conclusion that their effect was merely to,  restorethe position as it was when the original Patni was  created,and that, in consequence, the purchaser was entitled to	 thePatni as it was created in 1820,(1)  A.I.R. 1925 Cal. 807,1322and that the plaintiff was entitled to the possession of theChaukidari Chakaran lands as being part of the Patni.	Now,it  is to be observed that in deciding that  the  ChaukidariChakaran  lands granted in 1899 became merged is lot  Kooly,as  it was in 1820, the learned Judge did not  consider	 theeffect of the clause providing for sale of those lands as  adistinct entity under the provisions of the Regulation	whenthere  was  default in the payment of  ret  payable  thereonunder the deed, and that, in our opinion, deprives the deci-sion of much of its value.  In the result, we are unable  tohold  that the two clauses on which the learned Judges	basetheir  conclusion are really inconsistent with	the  earlierclauses which support the view that the grant under  ExhibitB  is of a distinct Patni.  Nor do we agree with  them	thatthe earlier clause providing for the sale of the  ChaukidariChakaran lands in default of the payment of jama, should  beconstrued  so as not to override the later clauses.  If,  infact, there is a conflict between the earlier clause and thelater  clauses and it is not possible to give effect to	 allof  them, then the rule of construction is  well-establishedthat  it is the earlier clause that must override the  laterclauses	 and  not vice versa.  In Forbes v.  Git  (1),	LordWrenbury stated the rule in the following terms :"  If  in a deed an earlier clause is followed	by  a  laterclause	which destroys altogether the obligation created  bythe  earlier clause, the later clause is to be	rejected  asrepugnant and the earlier clause prevails.  In this case thetwo  clauses cannot be reconciled and the earlier  provisionin the deed prevails over the later."We  accordingly hold that Exhibit B created a new Patni	 andthat  the sale of the lands comprised therein is not bad  asof a portion of a, Patni.We  are	 conscious that we are differing  from	the  learnedJudges of the Court below on a question relating to a  localtenure	on which their opinion is, by reason of the  specialknowledge and experience which they have of it, entitled  tothe  greatest weight.  It is also true that the decision  inKanchan Barani Debi v.(1)  [1922] 1 A.C. 256,259.1323Umesh.	 Chandra (1) has stood now for over  three  decades,though it is pertinent to add that its correctness does	 notappear	to have come up for consideration in any  subsequentdecision   of  the  Calcutta  High  Court,  prior  to	thislitigation.   But then, the question is one of	constructionof a deed, and our decision that the effect of an  agreementof  the kind in Exhibit B was to constitute  the  ChaukidariChakaran lands into a distinct Patni will not result in	 anyinjustice to the parties.  On the other hand, the rule	thata  portion of a Patni should not be sold being one  intendedfor the benefit of the Patnidars, there is no reason why  anagreement entered into by them with the Zamindars  providingfor the sale of a portion, thereof-which is really to  theiradvantage, should not be given effect to.  Having  anxiouslyconsidered  the matter, we have come to the conclusion	thatExhibit B creates a distinct Patni, that the sale thereof onMay 15, 1937, is valid, and that the plaintiff has thereforeacquired  a  good title to the suit lands  under  the  grantdated February 13, 1941.  In this view, it is unnecessary toexpress	 any  opinion on the point that was the	 subject  ofconsiderable argument before us as to whether it is open  tothe  defendants to raise the invalidity of the sale held  onMay  15,  1937, in answer to this action,  they	 not  havingtaken  steps to have set it aside, as provided in s.  14  ofthe Regulation.In  the result, the appeal is allowed, the judgment  of	 thelower  Court  reversed	and  that  of  the  District   Judgerestored, with costs throughout.Appeal allowed.(1) A.I.R. 1925 Cal. 807.1681324