PETITIONER:THE AMALGAMATED ELECTRICITY CO., LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:N. S. BATHENADATE OF JUDGMENT:13/02/1959BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.IMAM, SYED JAFFERSUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  711		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 213 CITATOR INFO : F	    1974 SC 314	 (16)ACT:       Arbitration-Arbitration	 clause	 in  electricity   licence-       Whether	binding	 on  consumer  of   electricity-Electricity       (Supply)	 Act, 1948 (54 of 1948), s. 57, cl.  XVI  of  Sixth       Schedule.HEADNOTE:The  arbitration  clause  incorporated by s.  57(1) of	theElectricity (Supply) Act, 1948, in a licence granted by	 theGovernment  for	 the  supply of	 electrical  energy  to	 theconsumers  is not available for adjudicating upon a  disputebetween the licensee and the consumer, for the licence is anengagement  between the licensee and the Government and	 thearbitration  clause  in it refers only to  disputes  betweenthem.  Section 57(1) does not make the arbitration clause  astatutory provision by virtue of which disputes between	 anyand every person may be referred to arbitration.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 361 of 1958. Appeal	 by special leave from the judgment and order  datedDecember  11,  1957,  of  the Mysore  High  Court  in  CivilRevision  No.  702 of 1956, against the judgment  and  orderdated  August  10, 1956, of the Court  of  the	Second-ExtraAssistant  Judge, Belgaum, in Misc.  Appeal No. 36 of  1955,arising out of the order dated September 1, 1955, of the 1stJoint  Civil  Judge, Junior Division,  Belgaum,	 in  RegularCivil Suit No. 197 of 1955.M.   M. Gharekhan and I. N. Shroff, for the appellant.D.   D. Chawla and G. Gopalakrishnan, for the respondent.B.   Sen and T. M. Sen, for the intervener (Attorney-Generalof India).1959.  February 13.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbySARKAR, J.-This is an appeal from the judgment passed by theHigh  Court  at Bangalore on a petition	 in  revision.	 Thequestion is whether a certain suit should be stayed under s.34 of the Arbitration Act, 1940.214 The  appellant	 carries  on  business	as  a  supplier	  ofelectrical  energy in Belgaum.	It obtained a  licence	fromthe  Government	 under s. 3 of the Indian  Electricity	Act,1910, authorising it to supply the energy in that area.	 Therespondent,  who  is  the plaintiff in	the  suit,  obtainedsupply	of electricity from the appellant.   The  respondentfelt that he was being overcharged by the appellant for	 theelectricity  so supplied.  He thereupon filed a suit in	 theCourt  of the Civil Judge, Belgaum, on or about the  8th  ofJune,  1955, claiming a refund of the amount paid in  excessof what he thought was the legitimate charge.  The appellantthen  applied under s. 34 of the Arbitration Act for a	stayof  the suit on the ground that the matter was referable  toarbitration under the provisions of the Electricity (Supply)Act, 1948.  The application was dismissed by the Civil Judgeand  his  decision  was confirmed  by  the  Extra  AssistantSessions  Judge on appeal and lastly, by the High  Court  inrevision.  The appellant has now come to this Court.The  appellant	contends that this matter  is  referable  toarbitration under the provision contained in cl. XVI of	 theSixth Schedule of the Act of 1948.  A few of the  provisionsof  these Acts will now have to be referred to.	  Under	 theAct of 1910 the business of supplying electrical energy	 canbe  carried  on only with the sanction	of  the	 Government.Section	 3  of that Act makes provision for the grant  of  alicence	 for  supplying electrical  energy.   The  appellantobtained a licence in 1932.A  form of the licence is set out in the rules framed  underthe  Act of 1910 and that form prescribes the maximum  limitwhich  a licensee is entitled to charge a consumer  for	 theelectrical energy supplied.  The Act of 1948 made a somewhatdifferent  provision  with  regard  to	these  charges.	  Itprovided by s. 57 as follows:-"S.  57.  (1) The provisions of the Sixth Schedule  and	 theTable appended to the Seventh Schedule shall be deemed to beincorporated  in the licence of every licensee, not being  alocal  authority, from the date of the commencement  of	 thelicensee's next succeeding215year  of  account,  and from such date	the  licensee  shallcomply	therewith  accordingly and any provisions  of,	suchlicence	 or  of the Indian Electricity Act,  1910,  or'	 anyother  law,  agreement	or  instrument	applicable  to	 thelicensee shall, in relation to the licensee, be void and  ofno  effect  in	so far as they	are  inconsistent  with	 theprovisions of this section and the said schedule and Table.(2)........................................................This  section had therefore the effect of  incorporating  inthe  licence the terms of these two Schedules  and  providedthat  they  would prevail over the terms of  any  previouslygranted licence or the provisions of the Act of 1910, or anyother  law, agreement or instrument inconsistent with  theseSchedules.  The Sixth Schedule made new provisions about thecharges	 that  a licensee was entitled to  realise  for	 thecurrent	 supplied.  Clause XVI of that Schedule	 contains  aprovision  for	arbitration  and  it is	 on  that  that	 theappellant relies.  That clause is in these terms:Any  dispute or difference as to the interpretation  or	 anymatter arising out of the provisions of this Schedule  shallbe  referred  to  the arbitration  of  the  Authority."	 Theappellant   contends  that  the	 dispute  covered   by	 therespondent's  suit  is	one of the kind	 mentioned  in	thisclause	and therefore must be referred to arbitration  underits terms.We will assume that the dispute is of the kind mentioned  incl.   XVI of the Sixth Schedule.  We are however  unable  tosee  that it is a dispute which is referable to	 arbitrationunder that clause.  It is not the appellant's case that	 el.XVI  is	 a  clause  in	any  contract  between	it  and	 therespondent.   That being so, the only other way in which  itis possible for the appellant to contend that the respondentis  bound  to refer the dispute to  arbitration	 under	thisclause	is by showing that it is a statutory  provision	 forarbitration.   No doubt if it were so, then in view  of	 theprovisions  of s. 46 of the Arbitration Act  the  'appellantwould  be entitled to apply for a stay of the suit under  s.34 of that Act.	 We are however wholly unable to agree	thatcl.  XVI is such a statutory provision.	 The only216statutory  provision  that we find on the  subject  is	thatcontained  in s. 57 and its effect is that the terms of	 cl.XVI  and the other clauses in the Sixth Schedule are  to  bedeemed	incorporated in a licence granted by the  Governmentunder s. 3 of the Act of 1910 and the licensee is to  complywith the terms of that Schedule.  Therefore all that we	 getis that the licence which is granted by the Government to  asupplier of electricity, like the appellant, is to contain aclause	 that	certain	 disputes  would  be   referred	  toarbitration.   The  licence is an  'engagement	between	 theGovernment  and the licensee, binding the parties to  it  toits  provisions.  It is unnecessary to decide  whether	thisengagement is contractual or statutory, for, in either	caseit  is between the two of them only.  An arbitration  clausein  an	instrument  like  this can only	 be  in	 respect  ofdisputes  between  the parties to it.  Such  an	 arbitrationclause does not contemplate a dispute between a party to theinstrument  and one who is not such a party.  We are  unableto  read  s. 57 as making cl. XVI in the  Sixth	 Schedule  astatutory  provision by which certain disputes	between	 anyand every person have to be referred to arbitration.It was said on behalf of the appellant that the licence is astatutory  document'  That, in our view, is a loose  way  ofputting the thing.  By that the utmost that can be meant  isthat  it is issued under the terms of a statutory  provisionand  must  comply  with the provisions	thereof.   But	thatcannot	convert it into a statutory provision for  referenceto  arbitration	 of  disputes irrespective  of	the  partiesbetween whom the disputes may exist.In  our view, therefore, cl.  XVI of the Sixth	Schedule  ofthe  Act  of  1948 contains no	provision  for	arbitration,statutory or otherwise, for reference of the dispute of	 thenature	we  have before us, between a licensed	supplier  ofelectricity and a consumer of it from him.In  the	 result,  this appeal fails and	 is  dismissed	withcosts.Appeal dismissed.217