PETITIONER:JETHANAND BETAB	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF DELHI(now Delhi Administration)DATE OF JUDGMENT:15/09/1959BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1960 AIR   89		  1960 SCR  (1) 755ACT:Repeal	of  Statute-Repealing and Amending Act,	 object	 of-Enactment making Possession of wireless telegraphy apparatuswithout	 licence  punishable-Amending  Act  introducing	 newsection	 making Possession of wireless	transmitter  withoutlicence liable to heavier Punishment-Repeal of Amending Act-Whether amendment introduced by it survives-Indian  WirelessTelegraphy  Act,  1933 (XVII of 1933), ss. 3, 6	 and  6(1A)-Indian	Wireless Telegraphy (Amendment) Act, 1949  (XXXI  of1949),	s.  5-Repealing and Amending Act,  1952	 (XLVIII  of1952),	ss. 2 and 4--General Clauses Act, 1879 (X of  1879),S. 6A.HEADNOTE:Section	 3  of	the Indian  Wireless  Telegraphy  Act,	1933provided  that no person shall possess	wireless  telegraphyapparatus  without a licence and s. 6 made  such  possessionpunishable.  The Indian Wireless Telegraphy (Amendment) Act,1949,  introduced s. 6(1A) in the 1933 Act,  which  providedfor  a	heavier	 sentence  for	possession  of	a   wirelesstransmitter  without a licence.	 The Repealing and  AmendingAct, 1952, repealed the whole of the Amendment Act of  1949,but  by s. 4 provided that the repeal shall not	 affect	 anyother  enactment  in which the repealed enactment  had	beenapplied,  incorporated	or referred to.	 The  appellant	 wasconvicted  under  s.  6(1A) for being, in  possession  of  awireless transmitter on July 31, 1953.	He contended that s.6(1A)  had  been repealed and his  conviction  and  sentencethereunder could not be sustained.Held,  that  s.	 6(1A) was saved by s.	6A  of	the  GeneralClauses Act, 1897, though s. 4 of the Repealing and AmendingAct, 1952, did not save it.756The  object of the Repealing and Amending Act, 1952, was  tostrike	out unnecessary Acts and to excise dead matter	fromthe statute book.Khuda  Bux  v. Manager, Caledonian Press, A.I.R.  1954	Cal.484, referred to.Section	 4  of the Repealing and Amending  Act,	 1952,	onlysaved  other enactments in which the repealed enactment	 hadbeen  applied,	incorporated  or referred  to.	 It  had  noapplication to the case of a later amending Act inserting  anew provision in an earlier Act as it could not be said thatthe  earlier  Act applied, incorporated or referred  to	 theAmending Act.Secretary  of State for India in Council v.  Hindusthan	 Co-operative  Insurance  Society,	Ltd.,  L.R.  58	 I.A.	259,followed.Mohinder  Singh v. Mst.	 Harbhajan Kaur, I.L.R.	 1955  Punj.625  and Darbara Singh v. Shrimati Karnail Kaur,  61  P.L.R.762, disapproved.Section 6A of the General Clauses Act provided that when anyCentral Act repealed any enactment by which the text of	 anyCentral	 Act was amended then unless a	different  intentionappeared  the repeal would not affect such  amendment.	 Theword  " text " in s. 6A was comprehensive enough to  includethe  subject as well as the terminology used in	 a  statute,and  the  insertion  of	 s. 6(1A) in the  1933	Act  was  anamendment  in  the text.  No  different	 intention  appearedeither	from  the repealing Act or from the history  of	 thelegislation and s. 6A applied to the repeal of the AmendmentAct, 1949.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 185  of1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedthe  6th December, 1955, of the Punjab High  Court  (CircuitBench)	at  Delhi, in Criminal Revision No. 122-D  of  1955,arising	 out of the judgment and order dated July 29,  1955,of  the First Additional Sessions Judge, Delhi, in  Cr.	  A.No. 367/55.Mohan Behari Lal and Eluri Udayarathnam, for the appellant.N.   S. Bindra and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1959.	September  15.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered bySUBBA  RAO  J.-This  appeal by	special	 leave	is  directedagainst	 the  order  of the High Court	of  Punjab  (CircuitBench), Delhi confirming the conviction of the appellant andthe sentence passed on him by the757Magistrate,  First  Class,  Delhi, under s.  6(1-A)  of	 theIndian	 Wireless  Telegraphy  Act,  1933  (XVII  of   1933)(hereinafter called " the Act ").Jethanand, the appellant herein, was prosecuted, along	withanother, in the Court of the Magistrate, First Class, Delhi,under  s.  6(1-A)  of  the Act	for  possessing	 a  wirelesstransmitter  in contravention of the provisions of s.  3  ofthe   Act,  and	 was  sentenced	 to  six   months   rigorousimprisonment.	On  appeal,  the  learned  First  AdditionalSessions Judge, Delhi, upheld the conviction but reduced thesentence  to  the period of imprisonment  already  undergoneplus  a	 fine  of  Rs. 500.  On	 revision,  the	 High  Courtconfirmed  both	 the  conviction and the  sentence.   On  anapplication  filed  for special leave, this Court  gave	 thesame, but limited it	 to the question of sentence.Learned	  Counsel    raised   before   us   the	   followingcontentions:   (1) s. 6(1-A) of the Act was repealed, and,therefore,   neither   the  conviction	nor   the   sentencethereunder  could be sustained; and (2) if s. 6(1-A) of	 theAct  was repealed, this Court in limiting the appeal to	 thequestion  of sentence only went wrong, for, if that  sectionwas  not  on  the statute book at the time  of	the  allegedcommission  of the offence, not only the sentence  but	alsothe   conviction   thereunder  would  be  bad.	  Both	 thecontentions raised turn upon the same point.  The  differentsteps in the argument may be stated thus: In the Act XVII of1933,  as  it  originally  stood,  there  was  no   specificprovision  making the possession of wireless transmitter  anoffence.  By the Indian Wireless Telegraphy (Amendment) Act,1949 (XXXI of 1949) (hereinafter called the " 1949 Act"), s.6(1-A) was inserted in the Act, whereunder the possession ofa  wireless transmitter was constituted a separate  offence.The amending Act was repealed by the Repealing and  AmendingAct,  1952 (XLVIII of 1952) (hereinafter called the  "	1952Act  "),  with the result that on the date  of	the  allegedcommission  of the offence the said section was not  on	 thestatute	  book.	  If  that  was	 the  legal  position,	 thelimitation  on the leave granted by this Court would  resultin an96758anomaly,  namely,  that the conviction would stand  but	 thesentence  would	 be  quashed.	The  argument  so  presentedappears to be plausible, but, in our view, not sound.There  is a real justification for this Court  limiting	 thescope of the special leave.  The High Court by mistake citedin its judgment the provisions of s. 6(1) of the Act insteadof s. 6(1-A) thereof.  If the conviction was under s.  6(1),the  maximum  sentence	permissible  on	 the  first  offencethereunder  was	 only  fine which may  extend  to  Rs.	100.Presumably  on the assumption that the conviction  could  besustained  under s. 6(1), even if s. 6(1 -A) was not on	 thestatute	 book-there may be justification for this  view,  asthe words it wireless telegraphy apparatus " in s. 6(1)	 arecomprehensive  enough  to  take	 in  "	wireless  telegraphytransmitter "-this Court gave leave limited to the  questionof  sentence.  The inconsistency, if any, was the result  ofthe appellant's presentation of his case at that stage,	 andhe cannot now be allowed to take advantage of his default toenlarge the scope of the appeal.That  apart, there are no merits in the contention.  At	 theoutset	 it  would  be	convenient  to	read  the   relevantprovisions of the three Acts:The Indian Wireless Telegraphy Act, 1933.S.   3	:  Save as provided by section 4,  no  person  shallpossess	 wireless telegraphy apparatus except under  and  inaccordance with a licence issued under this Act.S.   6(1):   Whoever  possesses	 any   wireless	  telegraphyapparatus  in contravention of the provisions of  section  3shall  be  punished in the case of the first  offence,	withfine  which  may extend to one hundred rupees, and,  in	 thecase of a second or subsequent offence, with fine which	 mayextend to two hundred and fifty rupess.The Indian Wireless Telegraphy (Amendment) Act, 1949.S.   5. Amendment of section 6, Act XVII of 1933. In section6 of the said Act,-*			  *	       *759(ii) after sub-section (1), the following sub-section  shallbe inserted, namely:-"(1A)	whoever	 possesses  any	 wireless   transmitter	  incontravention  of  the	provisions of  section	3  shall  bepunished with imprisonment which may extend to three  years,or  with  fine which may extend to one thousand	 rupees,  orwith both."REPEALING AND AMENDING ACT, 1952.S.   2:	 The enactments specified in the First Schedule	 arehereby repealed to the extent mentioned in the fourth columnthereof	       The First ScheduleYear   No.	  Short title		    Extent of repeal(1)   (2)	      (3)			   (4)1949 XXXI  The Indian Wireless Telegraphy	 The whole		(Amendment) Act, 1949.S.   4:	 The repeal by this Act of any enactment  shall	 notaffect	any other enactment in which the repealed  enactmenthas been applied, incorporated or referred to;*			*			 *The  substance	of the aforesaid provisions  may  be  statedthus:  The  Act of 1949 inserted s. 6 (1 -A) in the  Act  of1933.	The 1949 Act was repealed by the 1952 Act,  but	 thelatter Act saved the operation of other enactments in  whichthe  repealed  enactment has been applied,  incorporated  orreferred   to.	  The  first  question	 that	arises	 forconsideration is whether the amendments inserted by the 1949Act in the 1933 Act were saved by reason of s. 4 of the 1952Act.The general object of a repealing and amending Act is statedin  Halsbury's Laws of England, 2nd Edition, Vol. 31, at  p.563, thus:"A  statute  Law Revision Act does not alter  the  law,	 butsimply	strikes	 out certain enactments which	have  becomeunnecessary.  It invariably contains elaborate provisos."In  Khuda  Bux v. Manager,  Caledonian	Press  Chakravartti,C.J., neatly brings out the purpose and(1)  A.I.R. 1954 Cal. 484.760scope  of such Acts.  The learned Chief Justice says  at  p.486:" Such Acts have no  Legislative effect, but aredesigned  for  editorial revision, being  intended  only  toexcise	dead matter from the statute book and to reduce	 itsvolume.	  Mostly,  they	 expurgate  amending  Acts,  becausehaving imparted the amendments to the main Acts, those	Actshave  served  their purpose and have no further	 reason	 fortheir  existence. At times inconsistencies are also  removedby  repealing and 'amending Acts.  The only object  of	suchActs, which in England are called Statute Law Revision Acts,is legislative spring-cleaning and they are not intended  tomake  any change in the law.  Even so, they are	 guarded  bysaving clauses drawn with elaborate care,. . .".It is, therefore, clear that the main object of the 1952 Actwas only to strike out the unnecessary Acts and excise	deadmatter from the statute book in order to lighten the  burdenof  ever  increasing  spate of	legislation  and  to  removeconfusion from the public mind.	 The object of the Repealingand Amending Act of 1952 was only to expurgate the  amendingAct  of 1949, along with similar Acts, which had served	 itspurpose.The  next question is whether s. 4 of the Act of 1952  savedthe  operation of the amendments that had been	inserted  inthe  Act of 1933 by the repealed Act.  The relevant part  ofs.  4  only  saved other enactments in	which  the  repealedenactments  have been applied, incorporated or referred	 to.Can  it	 be  said that the amendments  are  covered  by	 thelanguage  of the crucial words in s. 4 of the Act  of  1952,namely,	 applied,  incorporated or referred to".   We  thinknot.  Section 4 of the said Act is designed to provide for adifferent  situation, namely, the repeal of an	earlier	 Actwhich  has  been applied, incorporated or referred to  in  alater Act.  Under hat section the repeal of the earlier	 Actdoes not affect the subsequent Act.  The said principle	 hasbeen succinctly stated in Maxwell on Interpretation ofStatutes, 10th Edition, page 406:Where  the  provisions	of one statute	are,  by  reference,incorporated in another and the earlier761statute	 is  afterwards	 repealed  the	provisions  so	 in-corporated  obviously continue in force so far as they	formpart of the second enactment."So too, in Craies on Statute Law, 3rd Edition, the sama ideais expressed in the following words, at p. 349:"  Sometimes  an  Act of Parliament,  instead  of  expresslyrepeating the words of a section contained in a former	Act,merely refers to it, and by relation applies its  provisionsto  some new state of things created by the subsequent	Act.In  such a case the is rule of construction is that where  astatute is incorporated by reference into a second  statute,the  repeal of the first statute by a third does not  affectthe second ".The  Judicial Committee in Secretary of State for  India  inCouncil v. Hindusthan Co-operative Insurance Society,	Ltd.(1) endorsed the said principle and restated the same, at p.267, thus:"  This doctrine finds expression in a	common-form  sectionwhich  regularly appears in the amending and repealing	Actswhich  are passed from time to time in India.	The  sectionruns:  " The repeal by this Act of any enactment  shall	 notaffect	any  Act.............. in which such  enactment	 hasbeen applied, incorporated or referred to." The	 independentexistence  of the two Acts is therefore recognized;  despitethe  death of the parent Act, its offspring survives in	 theincorporating Act.  Though no such saving clause appears  inthe  General  Clauses Act, their Lordships  think  that	 theprinciple  involved  is as applicable in India as it  is  inthis country."It is, therefore, manifest that s. 4 of the 1952 Act has  noapplication to a case of a later amending Act inserting	 newprovisions  in an earlier Act, for, where an earlier Act  isamended	 by a later Act, it cannot be said that the  earlierAct  applies,  incorporates or refers to the  amending	Act.The  earlier Act cannot incorporate the later Act,  but	 canonly be amended by it.	We cannot, therefore, agree with theview expressed by the Punjab High Court in Mohinder Singh v.Mst.(1)  L.R. 58 I.A. 259.762Harbhajan Kaur (1) and in Darbara Singh v. Shrimati  KarnailKaur(2)that  s. 4 of the Repealing and Amending Act of	1952applies to a case of repeal of an amending Act.This legal position does not really help the appellant,	 forthe  case on hand directly falls within the four corners  ofs.  6-A of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (X of 1897). -	 Theabove section reads:"Where	any  Central  Act  or  Regulation  made	 after	 thecommencement of this Act repeals any enactment by which	 thetext  of  any Central Act or Regulation was amended  by	 theexpress	 omission, insertion or substitution of any  matter,then, unless a different intention appears, the repeal shallnot affect the continuance of any such amendment made by theenactment  so repealed and in operation at the time of	suchrepeal."As, by the amending Act of 1949, the text of the Act XVII of1933,  was amended by the insertion of 6 (1-A) therein,	 therepeal	of the amending Act by the 1952 Act did	 not  affectthe  continuance of the amendment made by the  enactment  sorepealed.  It is said that for the application of s. 6-A  ofthe  General Clauses Act, the text of any  enactment  shouldhave been amended; but in the present case the insertion  ofs.  6  (1-A) was not a textual amendment but  a	 substantialone.   The text of an enactment, the argument  proceeds,  isthe phraseology or the terminology used in the Act, but	 notthe  content of that Act.  This argument, if we may say	 so,is  more  subtle  than sound.  The word "  text	 ",  in	 itsdictionary  meaning,  means " subject or theme	".  When  anenactment amends the text of another, it amends the  subjector theme of it, though sometimes it may expunge	 unnecessarywords  without	altering the subject.  We  must,  therefore,hold that the word " text " is comprehensive enough to	takein the subject as well as the terminology used in a statute.Another	 escape from the operation of s. 6-A of the  GeneralClauses	 Act  is sought to be effected on the basis  of	 thewords " unless a different intention(1) I.L.R. 1955 Punj. 625.(2) 61 P.L.R. 762.763appears ". The repealing Act does not indicate any intentiondifferent from that envisaged by the said section.   Indeed,the object of the said Act is not to give it any legislativeeffect but to excise dead matter from the statute book.	 Thelearned	 Counsel placed before us the historical  backgroundof  the	 amending  Act with a view  to	establish  that	 theintention of the legislature in passing the said Act was  toexpurgate  s. 6 (1 -A) from the statute as it was  redundantand unnecessary.  It is said that the Indian Telegraph	Act,1885 (XIII of 1885) provided for the offence covered by s. 6(1-A), and, therefore, the legislature though, by the Act of1948, inserted the said section in the Act of 1933,  removedit  in the year 1952 as the said amendment  was	 unnecessaryand  redundant.	 There is no foundation for  this  argument,and the entire premises is wrong.  Section 20 of Act XIII of1885 reads;S.   20 (1): If any person establishes, maintains or works atelegraph within India in contravention of the provisions ofsection 4 or otherwise than as permitted by rules made underthat  section, he shall be punished, if the telegraph  is  awireless  telegraph  with imprisoment which  may  extend  tothree  years, or with fine, or with both, and in  any  othercase, with a fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.Though	the  words  are comprehensive enough to	 take  in  awireless  transmitter,	the section does  not  prohibit	 thepossession  of a wireless apparatus.  As the Act  only	gavepower to control the establishment, maintenance and  workingof  wireless  apparatus, in practice it was found  that	 thedetection   of	unlicenced  apparatus  and  the	  successfulprosecution of the offenders were difficult, with the resultthat  the State was losing revenue.  To remove this  defect,Act  XVII  of  1933 was passed to  prohibit  the  possessionwithout	 licence of a wireless apparatus.  Under s.  6,	 thepenalty for such illegal possession of a wireless telegraphyapparatus  was made an offence, but the sentence  prescribedwas  rather lenient.  Subsequently, the legislature  thoughtthat the possession of a wireless transmitter764was  a graver offence; sometimes involving the	security  ofthe  State,  and  so an amendment  was	introduced  in	1949constituting  the  possession  of such	apparatus  a  graveroffence	 and imposing a more severe punishment.	  Therefore,it  cannot be said that s. 6(1-A), inserted in the Act	XVIIof  1933 by the amending Act of 1949, is either	 covered  bythe  provisions	 of  the Indian Telegraph Act,	1885,  or  asurplusage not serving any definite purpose.  Even from	 thehistory	 of the legislation we find it not possible  to	 saythat it disclosed an intention different from that envisagedin s. 6-A of the General Clauses Act.For  the aforesaid reasons, we hold that s. 6 (1 -A) of	 theAct  continued	to  be on the statute book  even  after	 theamending Act of 1949 was repealed by Act XLVIII of 1952, andthat  it was in force when the offence was committed by	 theappellant.The appeal fails and is dismissed.