PETITIONER:COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,AHMEDABAD	Vs.RESPONDENT:KARAMCHAND PREMCHAND LTD.,AHMEDABAD.DATE OF JUDGMENT:28/04/1960BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.KAPUR, J.L.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1175		  1960 SCR  (3) 727 CITATOR INFO : R	    1962 SC1272	 (9) R	    1970 SC1173	 (26) R	    1975 SC1282	 (13)ACT:Income-tax-Set-off-Business loss in Indian State-Profits  inBritish India-Applicability of the Act to business in IndianState Business profits Tax Act, 1947 (21 Of 1947), SS. 2(3),4, 5.HEADNOTE:The  assesses held the managing agency of a limited  companyin  what  was  then called " British India and	had  also  apharma728ceutical  business  in	the Baroda State which	was  at	 therelevant  time	an Indian State.  The  business	 in  BritishIndia showed profits assessable under the provisions of	 theBusiness Profits Tax Act, 1947, but the business carried  onin  Baroda  resulted in a loss, in the	relevant  chargeableaccounting  periods  between  1946  and	 1949.	 Before	 theIncome-tax  authorities the assessee claimed that  the	losssuffered by it in its business in Baroda should be  deductedin computing its business income liable to business  profitstax,  but this claim was rejected on the ground that  thoughunder s. 5 Of the Act, if it stood by itself without any  ofthe  provisos,	the Act would be applicable  to	 the  Barodabusiness, the third proviso had the effect of excluding thatbusiness  from the purview of the Act, except in so  far  asthe  income, profits or gains of the business were  receivedor deemed to be received in or brought into British India:Held,  that the effect of the third proviso to s. 5  of	 theBusiness  Profits  Tax Act- 1947, was merely to	 exempt	 theincome, profits and gains of the Baroda business except whenthey  were received or brought into British India,  but	 thebusiness  itself  was one to which the	Act  was  applicableunder the substantive part Of s. 5. Consequently, the lossesof the business could be set off against the profits of	 thebusiness in British India.The relevant provisions of the Act are set out in the  judg-ment.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 304 of 1958.Appeal from the judgment and order dated September 7,  1956,of  the Bombay High Court in Income-tax Reference No. 19  of1956.C. K. Daphtary,Solicitor-General of India,K. N.	   RajagopalSastri and D. Gupta, for the appellant.N.   A. Palkhivala and S. N. Andley, for the respondent.1960.  April 28.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byS.K.  DAS, J.-This is an appeal on a certificate of  fitnessgranted by the High Court of Bombay, and the short  questionfor  decision  is  the true scope and effect  of  the  thirdproviso	 to s. 5 of the Business Profits Tax Act, 1947	(ActNo.  XXI of 1947), hereinafter referred to as the Act.	 Theappellant is the Commissioner of Income-tax, Ahmedabad,	 andthe  respondent is a private limited company under the	nameand  style  of Karamchand Premchand Ltd., Ahmedabad,  to  becalled hereafter as the assesses.729The  relevant  facts  are  these :  the	 assessee  held	 themanaging  agency of the Ahmedabad Manufacturing	 and  CalicoPrinting Co. Ltd.  It also had a pharmaceutical business  inthe  Baroda State, which was at the relevant time an  IndianState run in the name and style of Sarabhai Chemicals.	 Theassessee's  business in India (we shall use  the  expressionIndia in this judgment to mean British India as it was	thencalled	in  contra-distinction to an  Indian  State)  showedbusiness profits assessable under the provisions of the Act;but  the  business  carried  on in the	name  and  style  ofSarabhai  Chemicals in Baroda showed a loss in the  relevantchargeable  accounting	periods which were four	 in  number,namely: (1) April 1, 1946, to December 31, 1946; (2) January1,  1947,  to  December 31, 1947; (3) January  1,  1948,  toDecember  31, 1948 ; and (4) January 1, 1949, to  March	 31,1949.	The assessee claimed that its assessable  income  inIndia  should be reduced by the loss suffered by it  in	 itsbusiness  in  Baroda.  The Income-tax Officer  rejected	 theclaim of the assessee and held that the Act did not apply tothe  business carried on in an Indian State  unless  profitsand  gains of that business were received or deemed to	havebeen  received	in  or brought into India.   On	 appeal	 theAppellate  Assistant Commissioner upheld the  contention  ofthe assessee and allowed the appeal.  The Department went upin  appeal to the Appellate Tribunal, which held that  underthe relevant proviso to s. 5 of the Act, profits and  lossesof  a business in an Indian State were not to be taken	intoconsideration  unless they were received or deemed  to	havebeen received in or brought into India.	 In that view of thematter	the  Tribunal set aside the order of  the  AppellateAssistant  Commissioner and restored that of the  Income-taxOfficer.   The	assessee  then moved  four  applications  inrespect of the four relevant chargeable accounting  periods,and by these applications the assessee required the Tribunalto state a case to the High Court of Bombay on the  questionof   law  which	 arose	out  of	 its  order.	These	fourapplications  were  consolidated.   The	 Tribunal  on  beingsatisfied  that a question of law arose out of its order  inthe four cases numbered as 85, 86, 87730and 88 of 1953-54, referred that question to the Bombay HighCourt in the following terms:" Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the	casethe  loss  suffered  by	 the assessee  in  the	business  ofSarabhai  Chemicals  should  be deducted  in  computing	 thebusiness  income of the assessee company liable to  businessprofits tax ?"The High Court answered the question in the affirmative	 andcame  to  the conclusion that the assessee was	entitled  todeduct the losses incurred by it in its Baroda business	 andset  them  off	against	 the profits  made  in	the  taxableterritories.   The appellant then moved the High  Court	 andobtained a certificate of fitness.  On that certificate	 thepresent appeal has come to us.The  main contention on behalf of the appellant is that	 theHigh  Court came to an erroneous conclusion with  regard  tothe  true scope and effect of the third proviso to s.  5  ofthe  Act.   It	is necessary here to refer to  some  of	 theprovisions of the Act to understand its general scheme.	  In1940  the Central Legislature passed the Excess Profits	 TaxAct,  1940 (Act No. XV of 1940), to impose a tax  on  excessprofits	 arising out of certain businesses.  We	 shall	haveoccasion to refer to some of the provisions of that Act,  indue course.  For the purposes of that Act, the expression  "chargeable  accounting	period " meant	(a)  any  accountingperiod falling wholly within the term beginning on September1,  1939,  and ending on March 31, 1946, and (b)  where	 anyaccounting period fell partly within and partly without	 thesaid  term,  such  part of that accounting  period  as	fellwithin the said term.  It may be here stated that originallythe term was from September 1, 1939, to March 31, 1941,	 butby  several annual Finance Acts the term was extended up  toMarch 31, 1946.In  1947  came	the Act in  which  "  chargeable  accountingperiod" means:(a)  any  accounting period falling wholly within  the	termbeginning  on April 1, 1946, and ending on March  31,  1949,and(b)  where  any	 accounting period falls partly	 within	 andpartly without the said term, such part731of that accounting period as falls within the said term.The Act extended to the whole of India.	 The word  business"is  defined  in s. 2(3) of the Act as including	 any  trade,commerce  or  manufacture, etc., the profits  of  which	 arechargeable  according  to  the provisions of s.	 10  of	 theIndian	Income-tax  Act, 1922.	There are two  provisoes  tothis definition clause, and the second. proviso states	thatall  businesses to which the Act applies carried on  by	 thesame  person  shall  be	 treated as  one  business  for	 thepurposes  of the Act.  The expression " taxable profits"  isdefined under s. 2(17) of the Act and it means the amount bywhich  the  profits during a  chargeable  accounting  periodexceed	the  abatement in respect of that period.   What  ismeant by " abatement" is defined in s. 2(1) of the Act.	 Thecharging section is s. 4 and we may read that section  here,so  far	 as  it is relevant for our  purpose,  in  order  tounderstand the general scheme, of the tax imposed under	 theAct." S. 4. Charge of tax-Subject to the provisions of this Act,there  ;hall  in respect of any business to which  this	 Actapplies,  be  charged,	levied and paid	 on  the  amount  oftaxable	 profits during any chargeable accounting period,  atax  (in  this Act referred to as " business  profits  tax")which shall, in respect of any chargeable accounting  periodending on or before the 31st day of March, 1947, be equal tosixteen and two-third per cent, of the taxable profits,	 andin  respect  of any chargeable accounting  period  beginningafter  that date be equal to such percentage of the  taxableprofits as may be fixed by the annual Finance Act."Shortly	 stated,  the  scheme  is that	in  respect  of	 anybusiness  to which the Act applies, there shall be  charged,levied	and paid a tax called "business profits tax" on	 theamount	of  the	 taxable profits,  which  means	 the  amountexceeding  the abatement, during any  chargeable  accountingperiod; the tax shall be equal to sixteen and two-third	 percent.  of the taxable profits in respect of  the  chargeableaccounting period ending on or before March 31, 1947, and inrespect	 of  any charge. able accounting period	 after	thatdate, the tax shall732be equal to such percentage of the taxable profits as may befixed by the annual Finance Act.  Then comes s.	  5 which isthe section dealing with the application of  the Act and  itis in these terms:S.  5.	Application  of Act-This Act shall  apply  to  everybusiness  of which any part of the profits made	 during	 thechargeable accounting period is chargeable to income-tax  byvirtue	of  the provisions of sub-clause (i)  or  sub-clause(ii)  of  clause (b) of subsection (1) of section 4  of	 theIndian	Income-tax Act, 1922, or of clause (c) of that	sub-section:Provided  that this Act shall Dot apply to any business	 thewhole  of the profits of which accrue or arise	without	 thetaxable territories where such business is carried on by  oron  behalf  of a person who is resident but  not  ordinarilyresident  in the taxable territories unless the business  iscontrolled in India:Provided further that where the profits of a part only of  abusiness  carried on by a person who is not resident in	 thetaxable territories or not ordinarily so resident accrue  orarise  in  the taxable territories or are deemed  under	 theIndian	Income-tax  Act, 1922, so to accrue or	arise,	thenexcept where the business being the business of a person whois  resident  but not ordinarily resident,  in	the  taxableterritories  is	 controlled in India, this Act	shall  applyonly  to such part of the business and such part  shall	 forall  the  purposes of this Act be deemed to  be	 a  separatebusiness :Provided  further  that	 this Act shall	 not  apply  to	 anyincome,	 profits  or gains of business accruing	 or  arisingwithin	any part of India to which this Act does not  extendunless such income, profits or gains are received in or	 arebrought	 into  the  taxable territories	 in  any  chargeableaccounting period, or areassessable under section 42 of that Act."We  have  read	the  section  as  it  stands  to-day.	 Theexpression  "  taxable territories " in	 the  provisoes	 wassubstituted for " British India " by the Adaptation of	LawsOrder,	1950, and the third proviso originally	referred  toany income, profits or gains of business accruing or %risingwithin "an Indian State"; then733the expression " a Part B State " was substituted, but	thiswas  again changed by the Adaptation of Laws (No. 3)  Order,1956,  and  the present expression " any part  of  India  towhich  this Act does not extend " was introduced.   For	 thepurposes  of this appeal nothing turns upon  these  changes,and  we	 may  read the third proviso  as  referring  to	 anyincome,	 profits or gains of a business accruing or  arisingin  an	Indian	State.	 Section  6  deals  with  relief  onoccurrence of " deficiency of profits " an expression  whichis defined in s. 2(7) of the Act.  The rest of the Act dealswith  matters,	such  as issue	of  notice  for	 assessment,assessments, profits escaping assessment, penalties, appeal,etc.,  with  which  we are not directly	 concerned  in	thisappeal.Now,  ss.  4 and 5 of the Act make it quite clear  that	 theunit of taxation is the business, that is, any busi. ness towhich the Act applies; and if a person carries on more	thanone  business  to  all of which the  Act  applies,  all	 thebusinesses carried on by the same person shall be treated asone business for the purposes of the Act.  Section 5, in itssubstantive  part, states to which business the Act  appliesand says that the Act applies to every business of which anypart  of the profits made during the  chargeable  accountingperiod	is  chargeable	to  income-tax	by  virtue  of	 theprovisions of sub-cl. (i) or sub-cl. (ii) of cl. (b) of sub-s.  (1) of s. 4 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922,  or	 el.(c)  of	 that  sub-section.  A reference  to  the  aforesaidprovisions of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, shows at oncethat in so far as they concern the present assessee s. 5  inits  substantive  part	makes  the  Act	 applicable  to	 hisbusiness  whether  the profits of the  business	 accrued  orarose  in India or Baroda ; and this is so in spite  of	 thefact  that the Act extended only to India.  Indeed,  learnedcounsel	 for the appellant has conceded that bad s. 5  stoodby itself without any of the provisoes, the Baroda  businessof the assessee would have come within the wide ambit of  s.5  and	the Act would be applicable to that  business.	 Hiscontention,  however,  is  that the third  proviso  has	 theeffect	of excluding the Baroda business from the pur.	viewof the Act, except in so far as the income, profits or gainsof that business are received or deemed to95734be  received  in or brought into India.	 On  behalf  of	 theassessee  the argument is that in its true scope and  effectthe  third  proviso has merely the effect of  exempting	 theincome, profits or gains of the Baroda business except	whenthey  are received or brought into India, but  the  businessitself	is  not excluded from the purview of  the  Act;	 thebusiness  is  still one to which the Act applies  under	 thesubstantive  part of s. 5 and as the third  proviso  exemptsincome,	 profits  or gains only, the losses  of	 the  Barodabusiness can be set off against the profits of the  businessin India.These  are the two main rival contentions which we  have  toconsider in this appeal.  Now, let us examine a little	moreclosely ss. 4 and 5 of the Act.	 We have stated earlier thats.  4  is the charging section, which levies a	tax  on	 theamount	of taxable profits during any chargeable  accountingperiod, in respect of any business to which the Act applies.The  corresponding  section in the Excess Profits  Tax	Act,1940,  was  also  s. 4 thereof, which levied a	tax  on	 theamount by which the profits during any chargeable accountingperiod	exceeded  the  standard	 profits  inrespect  of	 anybusiness  to  which  that Act  applied.	  Under	 the  ExcessProfits	 Tax  Act,  1940, as also under the  Act  under	 ourconsideration,	the unit is the business-business  to  whichthe Act applies.  For the application of the Act we have  togo to s. 5. We have pointed out that s. 5 in its substantivepart makes the Act applicable to every business of which anypart of the profits is chargeable to income-tax by virtue ofthe provisions of sub-cl. (1) or sub-cl. (ii) of el. (b)  ofsub-s. (1) of s. 4 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922,	and,thus makes the Act applicable to the Baroda business of	 theassessee.  The question then is-does the third proviso to s.5  exclude  that business except in so far  as	the  income,profits or gains of that business are received or deemed  tobe  received in or are brought into the taxable	 territoriesin  any chargeable accounting period ? If that is  the	truescope and effect of the third proviso, then the appellant isentitled to succeed.  If, on the contrary, the third provisomerely	makes  the Act inapplicable to	income,	 profits  orgains of the Baroda business unless such income, profits  orgains are3received or deemed to be received in or are brought into thetaxable territories, but does not exclude the business	fromthe  purview  of ss. 4 and 5, then the answer given  by	 theHigh Court is correct.The  High Court has stated that whichever view is taken	 thethird  proviso leads to certain difficulties, and in a	casewhere  much  can be said on both sides, the benefit  of	 anyambiguity  of  language must be given to the  assessee.	  Weagree  with  the High Court that the question is  not  quitefree from difficulty; but on the language of the proviso  asit stands, the answer given by the High Court appears to  usto be the correct answer.It  is not the case of the appellant that the first and	 thesecond	provisoes to s. 5 apply to the facts of	 this  case.But  it is significant to note the phraseology of these	 twoprovisoes  and	contrast them with the third  proviso.	 Thefirst proviso says:-" Provided that the Act shall not apply to any business	 thewhole  of the profits of which accrue or arise	without	 thetaxable territories, etc."The  language  is  clear  enough  to  exclude  the  businessreferred to therein from the purview of the Act.  Similarly,the second proviso excludes under certain circumstances partof  a business and uses appropriate language to give  effectto  that  exclusion.   By a legal fiction  as  it  were,  itdivides	 a  business into two parts, one separate  from	 theother,	and  makes the Act applicable to one of	 them  only.Unlike	the other two provisoes, the third proviso does	 notuse  the language of exclusion in respect of  any  business.What  it takes out of the ambit of the Act is merely  the  "income,	 profits and gains " of a particular business.	 Thelanguage  is thus more apt to effectuate an  exemption	fromtax  of ,income, profits or gains" rather than an  exclusionof  the business from the purview of the Act.  On behalf  ofthe  appellant	it  is contended that  such  a	constructionresults in this anomaly that if the income, profits or gainsare  not  brought into India, they escape tax  and  yet	 thelosses	of a business which is outside India are taken	intoconsideration  in  computing the profits,  etc.,  in  India.This,  it is argued, could not have been the object  of	 thelegislature in736enacting  the  third  proviso to s. 5 of  the  Act.   It  iscontended that the object was to exclude the business in  anIndian	State as also the income, profits or gains  thereof,unless such profits, etc., were received in or brought	intoIndia.	 This  argument is not devoid  of  plausibility	 andrequires careful consideration.We  may here refer to the relevant provisions of the  ExcessProfits	 Tax  Act,  1940.   Section 5 of  that	Act  in	 itssubstantive part and the first and second provisoes  theretowere worded in identical language, but the third proviso  tos.  5 of the Excess Profits Tax Act, 1940, was worded  quitedifferently from the third proviso to s. 5 of the Act.	 Thethird  proviso to S. 5 of the Excess Profits Tax Act,  1940,stated:"  Provided  further that this Act shall not  apply  to	 anybusiness  the whole of the profits of which accrue or  arisein  a  Part B State, and where the profits of a	 part  of  abusiness accrue or arise in a Part B State, such part shall,for  the  purposes  of this provision, be  deemed  to  be  aseparate  business the whole of the profits of which  accrueor  arise  in  a Part B State, and the	other  part  of	 thebusiness shall, for all the purposes of this Act, be  deemedto be a separate business."The language used was clearly one of exclusion, and it	saidthat  the  Excess Profits Tax Act was not  applicable  to  abusiness  the profits of which accrued or arose in a Part  BState.	Why then did the legislature use different  languagein  the third proviso to s. 5 of the Act?  On behalf of	 theappellant it has been submitted that the change in  languageis  deliberate and the reason for the change is to make	 theincome, profits or gains of a business accruing in an Indianor  Part B State liable to tax when such income, profits  orgains are brought in India while under the third proviso  toa. 5 of the Excess Profits Tax Act, they were not liable  totax  even when they were brought into India.  On  behalf  ofthe assessee, however, it has been submitted that the changein  language is due to a different reason  altogether.	 Thethird  proviso to s. 5 of the Excess Profits Tax Act,  1940,and s. 14(2) (c) (now deleted) of the Indian Income-tax Act,1922,  were  enacted at about the same time, and  the  broadobject of both the737provisions was to exclude profits of a business in an Indianor  Part  B State from charge of tax; but under	 the  ExcessProfits Tax Act, 1940, such profits were not chargeable evenif received in or brought into India whereas under s.  14(2)(c)  of	 the  Indian  Income-tax  Act  such  profits  becamechargeable  to	tax if received in or  brought	into  India.This  difference, learned counsel for the  assessee  states,was no doubt done away with by the change in language of thethird proviso to s. 5 of the Act; but the change in languagedid  something	more, because it  assimilated  the  positionunder  the proviso to that under s. 14(2) (c) of the  IndianIncome-tax Act, namely, that though profits of a business inan Indian State cannot be taxed unless they are brought intothe  taxable  territories, yet the losses  incurred  can  beadjusted  in  computing	 the profits of the  business  as  awhole.	 Learned counsel for the assessee has relied on	 thedecision  of  this  Court  in  Commissioner  of	 Income-tax,Mysore, Travancore-Cochin and Coorg v. Indo-Mercantile	BankLtd.  (1)  and	the decisions of the Bombay  High  Court  inCommissioner   of  Income-tax,	Bombay	City  v.   MurlidharMathurawalla  Mahajan Association (2 ) and  Commissioner  ofExcess Profits Tax, Bombay City v. Bhogilal H. Patel, Bombay(3  ).	The first two decisions cited above  considered	 theeffect	of  s.	24 (1), Indian Income-tax  Act,	 1922,	withspecial reference to the first proviso thereto (as it  stoodat the time relevant therein) and its impact on s. 10 of thesaid  Act.  It was held that sub-s. (1) of s. 24 dealt	onlywith  set-off of loss under one head against  profits  underany other head, and therefore the old first proviso to	sub-s. (1) of s. 24 applied and barred the right of set-off onlywhere  a loss in the Indian State was sought to be  set	 offagainst Indian profits under any other head; where, however,the assessee sought to set off his loss in the Indian  Stateagainst his Indian profits under the same head, e. g.,	set-off  of loss incurred in a business carried on in an  IndianState  against the profits of the same or  another  businesscarried	 on  in	 India, the proviso did not  apply  and	 theassessee was entitled to such set-off under s. 10(1) [1959] Supp. 2 S.C.R. 256.	(2) [1948] 16 I.T.R. 146.(3) [1952] 21 I.T.R. 72.738of  the	 Indian	 Income-tax Act.  Learned  counsel  for	 theassessee has submitted that the same principle applies	withregard	to  the third proviso to s. 5 of the  Act.   Learnedcounsel	 has  submitted that as under s. 10  of	 the  IndianIncome-tax Act, different businesses constitute one head andin  order to determine what are the profits and gains  of  abusiness under s. 10 an assessee is entitled to show all hisprofits and set off against those profits losses incurred byhim,  in the same head; so also under s. 5 of the  Act,	 theBaroda	business of the assessee is within the ambit of	 theAct,  though  the  income,  profits  or	 gains	thereof	 areexcluded  by the third proviso unless they are	received  orbrought	 into India.  He has pointed out that  the  positionunder  the  Excess  Profits Tax Act was	 different,  as	 wasexplained  in  Bhogilal Patel's case (1) where	the  learnedChief Justice said:" This contention of Mr. Kolah is based on the language usedin  the proviso, namely, that 'this Act shall not  apply  toany  business  the whole of the profits of which  accrue  orarise  in  an  Indian  State'.	 Now,  this  contention	  isobviously fallacious, because the proviso does not say	thatthe  Act shall not apply to the profits of a business  whichaccrue	or arise in an Indian State.  What the proviso	saysis that the Act shall not apply to any business the whole ofthe profits of which accrue or arise in an Indian  State.Theexpression  "the  whole of the profits of  which  accrue  orarise  in an Indian State' is an expression which  indicatesthe  nature  of	 the business which  is	 excluded  from	 thepurview or ambit of the Act".Now,  the  third  proviso to s. 5 of the Act  uses  not	 thephraseology  of	 the Excess Profits Tax Act,  but  the	veryphraseology  which  according to the learned  Chief  Justicewould have made all the difference.  Learned counsel for theassessee has argued, and we think it has considerable force,that  the legislature had before it the language used in  s.14  (2)	 (e) of the Indian Income-tax Act and  it  knew	 theeffect of those provisions and it used the same language  inthe third proviso to s. 5 of the Act.  If the object of	 thelegislature  was  to exclude the business  itself  from	 theambit(1)  [1952] 21 I.T.R. 72.739of the Act while taxing the profits which were brought	intothe taxable territories, then it used language which  failedto achieve that object.On behalf of the appellant it has been pointed out that	 theexpression  used in the third proviso to s. 5  is  "Providedfurther that the Act shall not apply to any income,  profitsor  gains  of  a  business, etc." It  is  argued  that	thislanguage,  (namely, that the Act shall not apply) is apt  toexclude from the purview of the Act business the profits  ofwhich  accrue or arise in an Indian State, except in so	 faras  such profits are brought into the  taxable	territories.In support of this argument a reference has been made to  s.4 (3) of the Indian Income-tax Act as it stood prior to 1939and  reliance is placed on the decisions in Commissioner  ofIncome-tax,  Madras  v.	 M.  P.	 T.K. M.  M.  S.  M.  A.  B.Somasundaram  Chettiar (1) and" Commissioner of	 Income-tax,Bombay	v. The Provident Investment Co. Ltd.(2). It is	truethat s. 4(3) of the Indian Income-tax Act, as it stood priorto  1939, said that this Act (meaning the Indian  Income-taxAct,  1922) shall not apply to certain classes of income  ",and  in the two decisions cited it was held that the word  "business  "  meant  a  business	 whose	profits	 were  beingassessed  in the year under consideration and there  was  nojustification  for  deduction of the expenses of  a  foreignbusiness.   We	do not, however, think that the use  of	 theexpression, " the Act shall not apply ", is decisive in thiscase.	We have to read the third proviso as a whole and  inthe context in which it occurs, in order to find out what itmeans.	 So  read it is difficult to hold that	it  has	 theeffect of excluding the Baroda business except in so far  asthe   profits	thereof	 are  brought	into   the   taxableterritories.  What it says in express terms is that the	 Actshall not apply to any income, profits or gains of  businessaccruing  or arising in an Indian State, etc.  It  does	 notsay that the business itself is excluded from the purview ofthe Act.  We have to read and construe the third proviso  inthe  context of the substantive part of s. 5 which takes  inthe  Baroda  business and the phraseology of the  first	 andsecond provisoes thereto, which clearly uses the(1) A. I. R. 1928 Mad. 487.(2) (1931) 1 L. R. 56 Bom. 92.740language of excluding the business referred to therein.	 Thethird  proviso does not use that language and  what  learnedcounsel	 for the appellant is seeking to do is to alter	 thelanguage  of the proviso so as to make it read as though  itexcluded  business  the income' profits or  gains  of  whichaccrue or arise in an Indian State.  The difficulty is	thatthe third proviso does not say so ; on the contrary, it useslanguage  which merely exempts from tax the income,  profitsor  gains unless such income, profits or gains are  receivedin or brought into India.Next,  we  have	 to consider  what  the	 expression  income,profits	 or  gains  " means.  In the context  of  the  thirdproviso, it cannot include losses because the latter part ofthe proviso says " unless such income, profits or gains	 arereceived,  etc., into the taxable territories ".  Obviously,losses cannot be brought into the taxable territories exceptin an accounting sense, and the expression " income, profitsor  gains  "  in the context  cannot  include  losses.	 Theexpression  must  have	the  same  meaning  throughout	 theproviso, and cannot have one meaning in the first part and adifferent  meaning in the latter part of the  proviso.	 Theappellant  cannot  therefore  say  that	 the  third  provisoexcludes the business altogether, because it takes away fromthe  ambit of the Act not only income, profits or gains	 butalso losses of the business referred to therein.On  behalf of the appellant it has been argued	that  thoughthe  language  of the third proviso to s. 5 of	the  Act  issimilar to that of s. 14(2)(c) of the Indian Income-tax Act,the  language of the two provisions is not identical and  itis not correct to say that their effect is substantially thesame.	It is pointed out that the language of	s.  14(2)(c)was one of exemption only in respect of any income,  profitsor gains accruing or arising in an Indian State, though	 forpurposes  of  " total income " the  Income-tax	Act  appliedthereto,  and  therefore the normal process  of	 aggregatingprofits and losses wherever they occurred could be  adopted.But says learned counsel for the appellant, the position  isotherwise  under  the  third proviso to s.  5  of  the	Act,because, firstly, it uses the expression, " the Act741shall  not  apply " and secondly, there is  no	question  ofexempting the profits from tax while including them for	 thepurposes of " total income ". We agree that the complicationof  excluding the profits from tax while including them	 fordetermining " total income " does not arise under the  thirdproviso	 to s. 5 of the Act; but the argument  presented  isthe same as we have dealt with earlier.	 The argument merelytakes us back to the question-does the third proviso to B. 5of  the	 Act merely exempt the income, profits or  gains  ordoes it exclude the business?  If it excludes the  business,the appellant is right in saying that the position under theproviso	 is not the same as under s. 14(2)(c) of the  IndianIncome-tax  Act.   If, on the contrary, the  proviso  merelyexempts	 the  income, profits or gains of  the	business  towhich  the Act otherwise applies, then the position  is	 thesame as under s. 14(2)(c).  It is perhaps repetition, but wemay  emphasize	again that exclusion, if any, must  be	donewith  reference to business, which is the unit of  taxation.The  first  and second provisoes to s. 5 do  that,  but	 thethird proviso does not.Lastly	it has been contended that the construction  adoptedby  the High Court is likely to lead to	 consequences  whichthe  legislature manifestly could not have  intended.	Thiscontention  has been pressed in respect of two matters:	 (a)computation of capital under the rules in Schedule 11 of theAct in a case where the assessee company sustains a loss  inan  Indian State; and (b) relief for deficiency	 of  profitswhere  the  assessee makes profits in an  Indian  State	 butsustains  a loss in India.  As to the first matter,  it	 hasbeen fully dealt with by the High Court with reference to r.2A  of	the  Rules in Schedule 11 and it  has  been  rightlypointed	 out that no difficulty really arise,% by reason  ofr. 2A.	Nor are we satisfied that any real difficulty ariseswith  regard  to relief for deficiency of profits  when	 theassessee  makes	 profits in an Indian State but	 sustains  aloss  in  India.   The Act will not apply  to  such  profitsunless they are brought into India, and if they are  broughtinto  India., a. 6 will apply with regard to relief  on	 theground of deficiency of profits.96742It   is	 unnecessary  to  consider  here  any	hypotheticaldifficulty which may arise in the application of s. 6.The appellant relies on the third proviso to s. 5 of the Actin  support  of the contention that it excludes	 the  Barodabusiness  of  the assessee and the losses of  that  businesscannot	be  set off against the profits of the	business  inIndia,	and the appellant can succeed only  on	establishingthat the proviso clearly and without any ambiguity  excludesthe  Baroda business.  We agree with the High Court that  ifthere  is  any ambiguity of language, the  benefit  of	thatambiguity  must	 be  given to the  assessee.   However,	 theconclusion at which we have arrived is that on the  languageof the proviso as it stands, it does not exclude the  Barodabusiness  of  the  assessee but exempts	 only.	the  income,profits or gains thereof unless they are received or  deemedto  be received in or brought into India.  Accordingly,	 theHigh  Court correctly answered the question of law  referredto it.	The appeal falls and is dismissed with costs.			       Appeal dismissed.