PETITIONER:FIRM OF M/S.  PEARE LAL HARI SINGH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF PUNJAB & ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:07/04/1958BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABOSE, VIVIANDAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  664		  1959 SCR  438ACT:Sales  Tax-Building contracts-State's Power of	taxation  onsupply	of materials in construction works-Whether  buildingcontract   comprises  a	 distinct  agreement  for  sale	  ofmaterials-East	Punjab	General Sales Tax  Act,	 1948  (EastPunjab XLVI of 1948), SS. 2(d)(j), 4(1)-Government of  IndiaAct, 1935 (26 Geo. 5 Ch. 2), Sch.  VII, List II, Entry 48.HEADNOTE:The  petitioners who were building contractors in the  Stateof Punjab were assessed to tax by the sales tax	 authoritieson the supply of materials in construction works treating itas  a sale, acting under the provisions of the	East  PunjabGeneral Sales Tax Act, 1948.  The petitioners challenged thelegality of the assessment proceedings on the grounds, interalia,  that the legislature of the Province of	Punjab	had,under Entry 48 in List II of Sch.  I'll to the Government ofIndia  Act,  1935, no power to impose tax on the  supply  ofmaterials in construction works as there was no sale in factor in law of those materials, and that the provisions of theAct  which sought to do it were ultra vires.  The  assessingauthorities  contended	that on a true construction  of	 thebuilding  contract  entered  into by  petitioners  with	 theGovernment it comprised a distinct agreement for the sale ofmaterials  and	particularly  relied on	 r.  33	 of  printedGeneral Conditions of Contracts issued by the Government :Held,  that there was no sale as such of the materials	usedin  the	 constructions by the petitioners and  that  no	 taxcould be levied thereon.439Rule  33  which provides that the materials brought  to	 thesite  shall become the property of the Government  but	thatwhen  the works are finally completed the surplus  materialsshall revert and become the property of the contractor,	 hasfor its object that materials of the right sort are used  inthe  construction and has not the effect of converting	whatis a lump sum contract for construction of buildings into  acontract for the sale of materials used therein.State  of Madras v. Gannnon Dunkerley & Co.  (Madras)  Lid.,[1959] S.C.R. 379, followed.Tripp v. Armitage, (1839) 4 M. & W. 687 and Reid v.  MacbethJUDGMENT:&ORIGINAL  JURISDICTION: Petition No. 128 of  1957.  Petitionunder	Article	 32  of	 the  Constitution  of	 India	 forenforcement of Fundamental Rights.Gopal Singh, for the petitioner.N. S. Bindra and T. M. Sen, for the respondents.1958.  April 7. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byVENKATARAMA AIYAR J.-This is a petition under Art. 32 of theConstitution,  and the question that is raised	therein	 forour decision is as to the validity of certain provisions  ofthe East Punjab General Sales Tax Act, 1948 (East Pb.	XLVIof 1948), hereinafter referred to as the Act, imposing a taxoil  the supply of materials in construction works  treatingit as a sale.It will be convenient at this stage to refer to the relevantprovisions  of the Act.	 Section 2(c) defines contract "  asmeaning,"  Any	agreement  for carrying out  for  cash	or  deferredpayment or other valuable consideration(i) the construction,fitting	 out, improvement, or repair of any building,  road,bridge or other immovable property; or(ii) the installation or repair of any machinery affixed  toa building or other immovable property.................""Dealer	 " is defined in s. 2((d) as any person	 engaged  inthe  business of selling or supplying goods.   Section	2(h)defines " sale " as meaning " any transfer440of  property in goods for cash or deferred payment or  othervaluable consideration, including a transfer of property  ingoods	  involved     in     the     execution	    of	   acontract................ " Turnover " is defined in s.	2(j)as  including " the carrying out of any contract, less	suchportion	 as may be prescribed of such  amount,	representingthe  usual proportion of the cost of labour to the  cost  ofmaterials used in carrying out such contract ". Section 4(1)enacts that,"......... every dealer whose gross turnover during the yearimmediately preceding the commencement of this Act  exceededthe  taxable quantum shall be liable to pay tax	 under	thisAct  on	 all sales effected after the coming into  force  ofthis Act."Section	 5 provides that the tax shall be levied every	yearon  the	 taxable turnover of a dealer at such rates  as	 theProvincial  Government may by notification direct.  Rule  28prescribes  the mode of computing the taxable  considerationwith  reference to contracts as provided in sub-cl. (ii)  ofel. (i) of s. 2.The  petitioners  are a firm of	 building  contractors.	  InDecember,  1956,  they	entered into  a	 contract  with	 theMilitary  Engineering Services Department of the  Governmentfor the construction of certain buildings known as " Marriedaccommodation  " at Ambala Cantonment and received a sum  ofRs. 32,000 on January 31, 1957, as advance.  On February 14,1957,  the assessing authority, Jullundur District issued  anotice intimating the petitioners that as they had failed toapply  for  registration under s. 7 of	the  Act  assessmentwould  be  made	 under s. 18, sub-s. (2),  for	the  periodscommencing  from  April 1, 1955, onwards, and  calling	uponthem  to produce their account books and attend the  hearingon February 16, 1957.  Thereupon, the petitioners filed	 thepresent	  petition  under  Art.	 32  of	  the	Constitutionchallenging the legality of the assessment proceedings,	 themain  ground  of attack being that the	legislature  of	 theProvince  of  Punjab had under Entry 48 in List II  of	Sch.VII to the Government of India Act, 1935, no power to imposetax  on	 the supply of materials in  construction  works  asthere was no sale in fact or in law of those441materials,  and that the provisions of the Act which  soughtto  do it were ultra vires.  This question is now  concludedby  the	 decision of this Court in The State  of  Madras  V.Gannon Dunkerley & Co. (Madras) Ltd. (1) wherein it has beenheld  that the expression " sale of goods" in Entry  48	 hasthe  same import which it bears in the Indian Sale of  GoodsAct,  1930, that in a building contract there is no sale  ofmaterials  as  such,  and that	accordingly  the  ProvincialLegislature had no power to impose a tax thereon under Entry48.In  this  view,	 we  have now  to  consider  the  contentionadvanced by Mr. Bindra for the respondents that the buildingcontract entered into by the petitioners with the Governmentwas  not  an agreement simpliciter for the  construction  ofworks,	but  that on its true construction, it	comprised  adistinct  agreement for the sale of materials.	If that	 canbe  established,  it is not disputed  that  the	 respondentswould  have 'a right to tax the transaction even apart	fromthe  impugned  provisions.   The  question  is	whether	 thecontract   of  the  petitioners	 with  the  Government	 forconstruction  was one and indivisible, or whether it  was  acombination  of	 an agreement for sale of materials  and  anagreement  for work and labour.	 The evidence placed  beforeus  leaves  us in no doubt as to the true character  of	 thecontract.   The tenders which where called for and  receivedwere  for  executing  works  for a  lump  sum,	and  in	 hisacceptance  of the tender of the petitioners dated  December15, 1956, the Deputy Chief Engineer stated :"  The	above  tender was accepted by me on  behalf  of	 thePresident of India for a lump sum of Rs. 9,74,961."How  this  amount is made up is given in Annexure E  to	 thereply  statement.   It	will  be  seen	therefrom  that	 thepetitioners  were to construct nine blocks, and the  amountsare worked out treating each of the blocks as one unit,	 andthe  figures  are  totalled up.	 It is	impossible  on	thisevidence  to hold that there was any agreement for  sale  ofthe materials as such by the petitioners to the Government.(1)  [1959] S.C.R. 379.56442 For  the  respondents	reliance was  placed  on  the  rulesappearing  in  the printed General Conditions  of  Contractsissued	by the Government.  Rule 33 which  was	particularlyrelied on provides:" All stores and materials brought to the Site shall  becomeand  remain  the  property of Government and  shall  not  beremoved	 off the Site without the prior written approval  ofthe G. E. But whenever the works are finally completed,	 thecontractor  shall at his own expense forthwith	remove	fromthe  Site  all	surplus	 stores	 and  materials	  originallysupplied by him and upon such removal, the same shall retestin and become the property of the Contractor."It is argued that the true effect of this provision  vestingthe materials in the Government is that those materials mustbe taken to have been sold to it.  That this is not the truemeaning	 of  the rule will be clear when regard	 is  had  toother  provisions in the rules.	 Thus, the  materials  whichare  used  in  the  construction must  be  approved  by	 theauthorities  as	 of  the right quality, and  they  could  becondemned  even after the construction is completed if	theyare  not  according to contract or of inferior	quality,  inwhich  case  the contractor has to remove them	and  rebuildwith proper materials.	Terms such as these and those in  r.33  quoted above are usually inserted in building  contractswith the object of ensuring that materials of the right sortare  used in the construction and not with the intention  ofpurchasing  them.  If r. 33 is to be construed as  operatingby way of sale of materials to the Government when they	 arebrought	 on  the  site,	 it must  follow  that	the  surplusmaterials remaining after the completion of the work must beheld   to  have	 been  resold  by  the	Government  to	 thecontractor, and that is not contended for.In Tripp v. Armitage (1), a builder who had been engaged  toconstruct  a  hotel  became  insolvent,	 and  dispute  arosebetween	 the assignees in bankruptcy and the proprietors  ofthe  hotel  as to the title to	certain	 wooden	 sash-frameswhich had been delivered by the insolvent on the premises ofthe hotel and had been(1)  (1839) 4 M. & W. 687; 150 E. R. 1597, 16O3.443approved by the clerk and returned to the insolvent for	 thepurpose	 of being affixed.  The contention on behalf of	 theproprietors was that the goods having been approved by theirsurveyor, they must be held to have been appropriated to thecontract  and  the  property therein  passed  to  them.	  Innegativing this contention, Parke B. observed:"  It  is  said	 that the approbation  of  the	surveyor  issufficient  to constitute an acceptance by  the	 defendants;but  that  approbation is not given eo animo at all;  it  isonly  to  ascertain  that they are  such  materials  as	 aresuitable for the purpose; and notwithstanding that approval,it  is	only when they have been put up, and  fixed  to	 thehouse, in performance of the larger contract, that they	 areto be paid for."In  Reid v. Macbeth & Gray(1), the facts were similar.	 Thedispute related to certain plates which had been prepared bycontractors  to be fitted in a ship.  These plates had	beenpassed	by the surveyor and were marked with the  number  ofthe  vessel and with marks showing the position	 which	eachplate  was  to occupy in the vessel.  The  ship-owners	laidclaim  to these plates on the ground that by reason  of	 theapproval by their surveyor and by the markings the  propertytherein	 must  be  held to have passed	to  them,  and	thataccordingly  the assignees in bankruptcy of the	 contractorscould not claim them.  That contention war, negatived by theHouse  of Lords, who hold that the facts relied on  did	 notestablish a contract of sale of the materials apart from thecontract  to construct the ship, and that the title  to	 thematerials  did	not  as such pass to  the  shipowners.	 Theposition  is the same in the present case.  Rule 33 has	 notthe  effect  of converting what is a lump sum  contract	 forconstruction  of buildings into a contract for the  sale  ofmaterials used therein.	 It must therefore be held followingthe  decision in The State of Madras v. Gannon	Dunkerley  &Co.  (Madras)  Ltd. (2) that there has been no sale  of	 thematerials  used by the petitioners in  their  constructions,and that no tax could be levied thereon.(1) [1904] A.C. 223.(2) [1959] S.C.R. 379.444Counsel	 for the petitioners raised two	 other	contentions,but  they are unsubstantial and may be shortly disposed	 of.One was that in the definition of " turnover " in s. 2	(j),el.  (ii) which is what is applicable to the  present  case,there	is  no	reference  to  sale  of	 goods,	 and   that,accordingly,  even  if	Entry  48  in  List  II	 is  to	  beinterpreted  in	 a  wide sense, the  provision	as  actuallyenacted	 does not, in fact, tax the supply of  materials  inworks  contracts, treating it as a sale.  But  the  chargingsection is s. 4 (1), which makes it clear that the tax is onthe  gross turnover in respect of sales effected  after	 thecoming	into force of the Act, and the obvious intention  isto include the supply of materials in works contracts withinthe category of taxable turnover.It was next contended that the definition of " dealer in  s.2  (d)	required that the person should be  engaged  in	 thebusiness of selling or supplying goods, that the petitionerswho  were  building  contractors were  not  engaged  in	 thebusiness  of selling or supplying goods but of	constructingbuildings,  and that therefore they were not dealers  withinthat  definition,  and that as under s. 4 the tax  could  beimposed only on a dealer, the petitioners were not liable tobe  taxed.  But if the supply of materials  in	constructionworks  can  be	regarded as a sale,  then  clearly  buildingcontractors  are engaged in the sale of materials, and	theywould be within the definition of " dealers " under the Act.There is no substance in this contention either.The  petitioners,  however are entitled to  succeed  on	 theground	that  the  impugned provisions are  not	 within	 theauthority  conferred by Entry 48, and a writ of	 prohibitionshould	accordingly issue restraining the  respondents	fromtaking	proceedings  for  assessment of tax  in	 respect  ofmaterials  supplied  by	 the  petitioners  in	constructioncontracts.  We direct the parties to bear their own costs,Petition allowed.445