PETITIONER:MESSRS FEDCO (P) LTD. & ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:S.   N. BILGRAMI & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:09/12/1959BENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASBENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASSINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR  415		  1960 SCR  (2) 408 CITATOR INFO : E	    1963 SC1811	 (104) R	    1982 SC 902	 (23)ACT:  Import  Licence, Cancellation of-Constitutional  validity-Reasonable  opportunity of being heard,	 meaning  of-ImportsControl Order, 1955, cls. 9, 10-Constitution of India, Arts.19(1)(f) and (g), Art. 31.HEADNOTE:The  petitioner company applied to the Chief  Controller  ofImports	 and  Exports, Government of India, New	 Delhi,	 forfive import licences and obtained them from the joint  ChiefController  of	Imports and Exports, Bombay,  purporting  togrant  the same on the authority of the former,	 and  placedorders	for goods covered by these licences, some  of  whichactually  arrived  in  Bombay.	Before the  goods  could  becleared,  the  company	received a  notice  from  the  ChiefController  stating  that  whereas  there  were	 reasons  tobelieve that these five licences had been obtained by fraud,the Government, in exercise of the power specified in cl.  9of the Imports Control Order, 1955, proposed to cancel	themunless	 sufficient  cause  was	 shown	before	 the   ChiefController.  The petitioner company by a telegram  requestedthe  Chief Controller to furnish particulars of the  allegedfraud and give an opportunity to inspect the relevant papersand  documents relied upon by him.  By a letter it  gave  anexplanation stating that the petitioners were the victims offoul  play by some one bent upon causing damage to them	 andbringing them in the bad books of the authorities.  In	thatletter	the company reserved to itself the right to add	 to,amend  or  alter  the  explanation  after  it  had  obtainedinspection  of	the said papers and the particulars  of	 thealleged	 fraud.	 The representatives of the company met	 theChief  Controller as also the Director of Administration  ofhis office and renewed the request for the said	 particularsand the inspection.  No particulars were furnished, nor	 wasinspection  allowed,  but  the	Chief  Controller  told	 therepresentatives that the issue of the licences had not	beenauthorised  by	him  and  the  same  had  been	fraudulentlyobtained  and the Director of Administration told them	thatthe recommendations against which the disputed licences weregranted	 by the joint Controller were not genuine,  but	 thesaid representatives, instead of denying the fraud  alleged,ascribed it to some other party as they had done before.  Itwas contended on behalf of the petitioners that cl. 9(a)  ofthe  Imports Control Order, 1955, infringed  Arts.  19(1)(f)and  (g) and 31 of the Constitution and that  no  reasonableopportunity  was given to the petitioners of being heard  asrequired by cl. 10 of the Imports Control Order.409Held  (per Sinha, C.J., Gajendragadkar, Das Gupta and  Shah,JJ.), that cl. 9 of the Imports Control Order does not	giveunbridled  authority  to cancel a licence nor is  there	 anyscope  for  arbitrary action in this regard in view  of	 theprovision  of cl.  10 of the Order which amply	fulfils	 therequirement of natural justice.It  is not correct to contend that before a licence  can  becancelled  under  cl. 9, it must be shown  not	merely	thatfraud  was committed but that the licensee was also a  partyto  the fraud.	The entire scheme of control and  regulationof imports by licences being based on the grant of  licenceson a correct statement of fact, that basis disappears if thegrant  is obtained by fraud or misrepresentation, and it  iswholly immaterial whether the licensee is or is not a  partyto  such  fraud	 or misrepresentation.	 The  provision	 forcancellation   of   a  licence	under  cl.   9,	  therefore,constitutes.   a  reasonable  restriction  on	the   rightsconferred by Art. 19(1)(f) and (g) of the Constitution	and,being imposed by a valid law, cannot contravene Art. 31.There can be no absolute standard of reasonableness and whatconstitutes  reasonable	 opportunity of being heard  in	 thepeculiar facts and circumstances of each case is a matter tobe  decided by the Court.  The Court has to  satisfy  itselfthat the person against whom action was proposed had a	fairchance of convincing the authority that the grounds on whichsuch action was proposed were either non-existent or did notjustify	 it.   So  judged, it could not	 be  said  that	 theomission  to give the petitioners, in the instant case,	 whowere more concerned to show that the company was not a partyto  the fraud than that no fraud had at all been  committed,further particulars or inspection of the papers amounted  toa denial of reasonable opportunity of being heard.Per  Subba Rao, J.  Judged in the light of  well  recognisedprinciples, there can be no doubt that the Chief  Controllerof  Imports,  acting  under cls. 9 and	10  of	the  ImportsControl Order, 1955, performs a quasi-judicial function	 andis  bound  to follow the principles of	natural	 justice  incancelling a licence.Rex   v.   Electricity	Commissioners,	 Ex   Parte   LondonElectricity  joint Committee Co., [1924] 1 K.B. 171, Rex  v.London	County Council, Ex Parte  Entertainments  ProtectionAssociation Ltd., [1913] 2 K. B. 215 and Province of  Bombayv. Khusaldas S. Advani, [1950] S.C.R. 621, referred to.The  language  of cl.  10 clearly indicates  that  when	 thecharge	is one of fraud, the affected party is	entitled  toknow the particulars of the alleged fraud and to inspect thedocuments on which it is based and to a personal hearing.It  was impossible, in the facts and circumstances  of	thiscase, to hold that the petitioners, who did not admit havingcommitted the fraud and must be assumed to be innocent, wereafforded  reasonable opportunity of being heard	 within	 themeaning of410cl.  10 of the Order to prove their innocence.	 Unless	 theparticulars  were given to them and the documents  shown  tothem  it was not possible for them to know if any fraud	 wasat  all	 committed  and	 if  so	 by  whom.   The  order	  ofcancellation  of the licences was, therefore, arbitrary	 andmust be quashed.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 171 of 1958.Petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India,	 forenforcement of fundamental rights.Purshottam  Tricumdas, Porus A. Mehta, S. N. Andley,  J.  B.Dadachanji,  Rameshwar	Nath  and  P.  L.  Vohra,  for	 thepetitioners.C. K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, N. S. Bindra, B.H. Dhebar and T. M. Sen, for the respondents.1959.	 December   9.	 The  judgment	 of   Sinha,   C.J.,Gajendragadkar,	 Das Gupta and Shah, JJ., was  delivered  byDas Gupta, J. Subba Rao, J., delivered a separate judgment.	  DAS  GUPTA  J. The first petitioner is  a  Companyregistered  under  the	Indian	Companies  Act	having	 itsregistered  office in Bombay and is engaged in the  businessof dyes, chemicals, plastics, and various other goods.	 Thesecond	petitioner  is the Chairman and a  Director  of	 thefirst petitioner Company.  In this petition for	 enforcementof  fundamental rights under the Constitution they pray	 forthe issue of a writ of certiorari or other appropriate writ,direction  or  order  quashing an order made  by  the  firstrespondent,  the  Chief Controller of Imports  and  Exports,Government  of India, New Delhi, by which he cancelled	fiveimport	licences  which	 had  been  granted  to	 the   firstpetitioner  by	the Joint Chief Controller  of	Imports	 andExports, Bombay.  There is also a prayer for an order on thesecond	 respondent,  the  Collector  of  Customs,   Bombay,directing him to assess the goods of the petitioner  Companywhich have been landed in Bombay having been imported on thestrength of these licences and allow the petitioner  companyto clear them.	Of these five licences, two were dated	July24, 1958, two dated August 16, 1958, and the fifth411dated  September  4, 1958.  The total value of	the  importsauthorised  by these five licences was Rs.  25,75,000.	 Thepetitioners contend that these five licences were granted tothe petitioner Company on five applications sent by them  byregistered  post  to  the Chief Controller  of	Imports	 andExports,  Government of India, New Delhi-three sent on	June17,  1958,  one on June 26, 1958, and the last on  July	 22,1958.  It is further stated that in respect of each of theseapplications  a letter was received by the Company from	 theoffice	of  the	 Chief Controller of  Imports  and  Exports,Government  of	India,	New  Delhi,  intimating	 that  theirapplication had been forwarded to the Joint Chief Controllerof  Imports and Exports, Bombay with the necessary  commentsand  asking the Company to contact this officer,  the  JointChief  Controller of Imports and Exports, Bombay, direct  inthe  matter.  The petitioner Company wrote in each  case  tothe  Chief  Controller of Imports and  Exports,	 New  Delhi,acknowledging receipt of these letters and at the same	timeto  the	 Joint	Chief Controller  of  Imports  and  Exports,Bombay,	 requesting  that the licences should be  issued  tothem at an early date.	After the licences were received  bythe Company from the office of the Joint Chief Controller ofImports	 and Exports, Bombay, the Company placed orders	 forthe  goods covered by these licences and some of  the  goodsactually  arrived  at Bombay.  Before however any  of  thesegoods  could be cleared the Company received a notice  datedSeptember 24, 1958, stating that whereas there was reason tobelieve	  that	these  five  licences  had   been   obtainedfraudulently,  the Government in the exercise of the  powersspecified  in  para. 9 of the Imports Control  Order,  1955,proposed to cancel the said licences unless sufficient causeagainst	 that  was  furnished to  the  Chief  Controller  ofImports	 and Exports, New Delhi, within 10 days of the	dateof  the	 issue of the said notice'.  On	 September  26,	 thepetitioner Company's solicitors sent a telegram to the ChiefController of Imports and Exports, New Delhi, requesting himto give particulars of the alleged fraud and to give them anappointment for inspection of papers412and  documents	relied	upon  by  him.	 On  September	 27,Company	 wrote	a letter to the same officer in	 which	theygave  a written explanation pointing out various  facts	 andstating	 that they were victims of foul play by some  personinterested  in causing damage to them  and  involving  theirreputation and in order to bring them in bad books with	 theauthorities.   In the concluding portion of this letter	 theCompany stated: " We also reserve our right to add to, amendor alter the explanations contained in this letter hereafterand  to	 submit	 such further  explanations  as	 may  becomenecessary  after  taking inspection of all  the	 papers	 andafter  getting	the particulars of the	alleged	 fraud.	  Weshall thank you to give us also an opportunity of a personalhearing in the matter."	 This written explanation was handedover   to   the	  first	  respondent   by   the	   Company'srepresentatives	 at an interview with him on  September	 30.At  that interview also, it is said, the representatives  ofthe Company pointed out to Mr. Bilgrami that in the  absenceof  any	 particulars  of  the  alleged	fraud  and   withoutinspection  of	the  papers relied upon by him	it  was	 notpossible for the petitioners to give a complete	 explanationand   that  they  reserved  their  right  to  give   furtherexplanation  on getting the said particulars and  inspectionof  the	 said  papers.	The  Company's	representatives	 hadanother	 interview with Mr. Sundaram, Director	(Administra-tion) in the Chief Controller's Office on October 14,  1958.At  this  interview  the  petitioners  again  requested	 Mr.Sundaram  to  give them particulars and that they  might  bepermitted  to  inspect	the  papers.   No  particulars	werehowever furnished and no inspection was allowed; but on thatvery date when they had this interview with Mr. Sundaram thefirst respondent made the order of cancellation.The  ten grounds set out in Cls.  A to L of para. 15 of	 thepetition  as  the basis for the relief resolve	on  analysisinto four only.	 These are:-(1)  Clause 9(a) of the Import Control Order under which theorder	of   cancellation   has	  been	 made	is    itselfunconstitutional, being violative of the petitioners'413rights	under  Art.  19(1)(f)  & (g)  and  Art.	 31  of	 theConstitution ;(2)  The  Order	 of  cancellation  has	been  made   withoutcompliance  with the mandatory requirement of cl. 10 of	 theImports	 Control  Order to give the licensee  "a  reasonableopportunity of being heard ";(3)  The first respondent, Mr. Bilgrami, bad no authority inlaw  to	 make any order under cl. 9 of	the  Import  ControlOrder;(4)  The  petitioners have been denied equal  protection  oflaws  under  Art. 14 of the Constitution inasmuch  as  otherpersons	  similarly  situated  have  been  given  a   properopportunity and a personal hearing before taking any  actionagainst	 them,	while  the petitioners have  been  denied  aproper	opportunity  to show cause for the  cancellation  oflicences and personal hearing in the matter.Of  these  four grounds, the third ground,  viz.,  that	 Mr.Bilgrami had no authority in law to make an order under	 cl.9  of  the  Imports  Control  Order  was  made	in  apparentignorance  of the fact that the Chief Controller of  Importsand Exports, became competent to make an order thereunder inconsequence of an amendment made in the Order, in 1958.	  Asthe  clause originally stood the relevant words were: "	 TheCentral	 Government or any other officer authorised in	thisbehalf	 may   cancel  any  licence   granted	under	thisorder............By  the  amendment  made  on  February	 27,1958,the  words	 ,or  the Chief Controller  of	Imports	 andExports	 "  were  inserted  after  the	words  "the  CentralGovernment  " in this clause.  The position on the  relevantdates in September and October, 1958, therefore was that theChief  Controller  of Imports and Exports,  New	 Delhi,	 hadauthority  to cancel any licence granted under	the  ImportsControl	 Order	without being specially authorised  in	thatbehalf.	  It was apparently in view of this  position  whichwas pointed out by Mr. Bilgrami in his affidavit in  opposi-tion  that the' learned Counsel for the petitioners did	 notpress  this  ground  at all.  Nor did he  press	 the  fourthground, viz., that the petitioners' right under53414Art.  14  of  the Constitution has been	 infringed.   It  isobvious	 that  if  the	order  has  been  made	without	 thepetitioners  having been given a reasonable  opportunity  ofbeing  heard  that itself would entitle them to	 the  reliefprayed for.  The question whether or not other persons	weregiven	 a    fair   opportunity   of	being	 heard	  isentirely  irrelevant. In opposition to this application, Mr. Bilgrami, the  firstrespondent,  contends  inter  alia that	 the  provision	 forcancellation of a licence under cl. 9 of the Order does	 notcontravene any of the fundamental rights granted under	Art.19(1)(f) and (g) and Art 31 of the Constitution and that thepetitioners  were given adequate and reasonable	 opportunityof  being heard before the order of cancellation  was  made.Mr.  Bilgrami has stated in the affidavit that while  it  istrue that four applications for licence-three dated June 17,arid  one dated June 26, 1958, were received in his  office,the  fact is that all these four applications were  rejectedand  that  it is now found that while  these  four  rejectedapplications were lying in his office, four similar  applic-ations	bearing	 the  same dates  and  containing  the	sameparticulars  and a fifth application bearing the  date	July22, 1958, somehow made their appearance in the office of theJoint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, Bombay, alongwith   five  separate  letters,	 one  in  respect  of	eachapplication,   containing  recommendations  for	  issue	  oflicences  purporting to have been issued from the office  ofthe  Chief  Controller of Imports and  Exports,	 New  Delhi,under  the signature of one Shri M. L. Gupta,  Deputy  ChiefController of Imports and Exports.  The respondent  contendsthat  the purported signatures of Shri M. L. Gupta on  theseletters	 were not genuine.  Mr. Bilgrami also contends	thatthough	these letters purported to state that the  issue  oflicences  was authorised by him he did not in fact give	 anyauthority,  and that when the  petitioners'  representativesinterviewed him on September 30, 1958, they were told of the"  general  nature of the fraud " and that he  further	toldthem that the issue of the licences had not been  authorisedby  him	 as  they purported to be and  that  they  had	beenobtained415fraudulently.	The  respondents further contend  that	whenagain on October 14, 1958, the petitioners had an  interviewwith  Mr.  Sundaram, the Director of Administration  in	 theoffice	of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports,	 Mr.Sundaram  told	them  expressly	 that  the   recommendationsagainst	 which	the disputed licences were  granted  to	 thepetitioners were not genuine.The  first contention on behalf of the petitioners  is	thatcl.  9(a) of the Imports Control Order is itself invalid  asit violates a licensee's rights under Art. 19(1)(f) and	 (g)and  Art. 31 of the Constitution.  Clause 9(a) is  in  thesewords :-Cancellation of Licence:-The Central Government or the ChiefController  of	Imports	 and Exports or	 any  other  officerauthorised  in	this behalf may cancel any  licence  grantedunder this order or otherwise render it ineffective :-(a)  If	 the licence has been granted' through	inadvertenceor   mistake   or   has	  been	 obtained   by	 fraud	  ormisrepresentation................As in the present case there is no question of the  licenceshaving	been granted through inadvertence or mistake  it  isnot  necessary for us to consider whether the provision	 forcancellation  of licences on the ground that they have	beengranted	 through  mistake or inadvertence is  invalid.	 Thequestion  in the present case is whether the  provision	 forcancellation  of licences on the ground that they have	beenobtained  by  fraud or misrepresentation is "  a  reasonablerestriction in the interests of the general public " on	 theexercise  of the petitioners' right under Art. 19(1)(f)	 andIt has to be noticed first that here is no case of unbridledauthority  to  cancel a licence nor is there any  scope	 forarbitrary  action.  If a provision for giving  a  reasonableopportunity  of being heard bad not been made in  the  Orderitself,	 it  would have been necessary to  consider  whetherthis had still to be given, because rules of natural justicerequired  it.  No discussion about the requirements  of	 therule  of natural justice is however called for here, as	 cl.10 of the Order provides that no action shall be taken underclauses 7, 8 or 9,416unless	the  Licensee/Importer has been given  a  reasonableopportunity of being heard.  It is proper to state that	 thelearned	 Counsel  for the petitioners does  not	 attack	 thevalidity of the, provisions on the ground	     that itgives  unbridled authority to cancel a licence,		  orthat   the   requirements  of  natural	justice	  have	 notbeen  sufficiently fulfilled by clause 10.  His argument  isthat though it may not be unreasonable that a licence shouldbe cancelled if the licensee himself has practised fraud  inobtaining  it, cancellation is wholly unreasonable if it  ismade  merely  on  the ground that it has  been	obtained  byfraud,	without	 it being further shown	 that  the  licenseehimself	 has  been a party to the fraud.  It appears  to  usthat in most cases, if not in all cases, where a licence  isobtained   by  fraud  or  misrepresentation  it	  would	  bereasonable  to	think that the person in  whose	 favour	 thelicence	 has  been obtained, cannot but be a  party  to	 thefraud	or  misrepresentation.	 The  petitioners'   Counselsubmitted  that	 it is possible to imagine a case  where  anenemy  of the person in whose favour the licence is  grantedprocures  such grant by means of fraud with  the  deliberatemotive of accusing this person later on of fraud and therebysubjecting  him on the one hand to criminal prosecution	 andon  the other hand damaging his reputation and	ruining	 hisbusiness.  It is unnecessary for us to decide in the presentcase whether this may ever happen.  Clearly however the factthat  fraud  by	 which the grant of the	 licences  has	beeninduced	 by  an enemy is wholly immaterial  on	the  presentquestion.   The entire scheme of control and  regulation  ofimports	 by  licences is on the basis that  the	 licence  isgranted	 oil  a correct statement of relevant  facts.	Thatbasis disappears if grant of the licence is induced by fraudor misrepresentation.  Whether the licensee himself or	someothers	  party	  is   responsible   for   the	 fraud	  ormisrepresentation,  the fact remains that in such cases	 thebasis  of the grant of licence has disappeared.	 It will  beabsolutely  unreasonable  that	such  a	 licence  should  beallowed	 to continue.  We are therefore of opinion that	 theprovision  that	 licence may be cancelled, if it  is  found,after giving a417reasonable opportunity to the licensee to be heard, to	havebeen obtained by fraud or misrepresentation is a  reasonablerestriction  in the interests of the general public  on	 theexercise  of the fundamental right of a	 citizen  guaranteedunder  Art.  19(1)(f)  and (g)	of  the	 Constitution.	 Thecancellation  being  under  a  valid law  there	 can  be  noquestion  of  any right under Art. 31  of  the	Constitutionhaving been infringed.This  brings us to the main contention pressed on behalf  ofthe petitioners, viz., that the licensee has not been  givena reasonable opportunity of being heard before the order  ofcancellation  was  made.  There can be no doubt	 that  if  areasonable  opportunity to be heard as against the  proposedorder of cancellation has not been given the order would  bean unjustified interference with the petitioners' right.  Itis necessary therefore to examine the material on the recordto  see	 whether the petitioners have succeeded	 in  showingthat no reasonable opportunity has been given.The requirement that a reasonable opportunity of being heardmust  be  given	 has two elements.  The	 first	is  that  anopportunity  to be heard must be given; the second  is	thatthis opportunity must be reasonable.  Both these matters arejusticiable  and  it is for the Court to decide	 whether  anopportunity has been given and whether that opportunity	 hasbeen  reasonable.   In the present case, a  notice  to	showcause against the proposed order was given; it was stated inthe  notice  that the ground on which the  cancellation	 wasproposed   was	 that  the  licences   had   been   obtainedfraudulently;  and later on, a personal hearing	 was  given.It  must  therefore  be held that the  requirement  that  anopportunity  to be heard must be given was satisfied.	Whatthe  petitioners'  Counsel strenuously contends	 however  isthat  though an opportunity was given that  opportunity	 wasnot reasonable.	 In making this argument he had laid specialstress	on  the fact that particulars of the  fraud  allegedwere  not  given and an opportunity to	inspect	 the  papersthough	repeatedly  asked  for was not	given.	 It  is	 nownecessary  to  consider all the circumstances  in  order  toarrive	at  a  conclusion  whether  the	 omission  to	giveparticulars of fraud and418inspection   of	 papers	 deprived  the	petitioners   of   areasonable opportunity to be heard.There can be no invariable standard for " reasonableness" insuch  matters  except that the Court's	conscience  must  besatisfied,  that  the  person  against	whom  an  action  isproposed  has bad a fair chance of convincing the  authoritywho proposes to take action against him that the grounds  onwhich the action is proposed are either non-existent or evenif they exist they do not justify the proposed action.	 Thedecision  of this question will necessarily depend upon	 thepeculiar facts and circumstances of each case, including thenature	of  the action proposed, the grounds  on  which	 theaction	is proposed, the material on which  the	 allegationsare based, the attitude of the party against whom the actionis  proposed in showing cause against such proposed  action,the nature of the plea raised by him in reply, the  requestsfor further opportunity that may be made, his admissions  byconduct or otherwise of some or all the allegations and	 allother  matters	which  help the mind in	 coming	 to  a	fairconclusion  on	the question.  The action  proposed  in	 thepresent case viz., the cancellation of the five licences wasproposed  on a tentative conclusion by Mr. Bilgrami  on	 thebasis  of  the	material in his	 possession  that  the	fivelicences  bad been obtained fraudulently.  The main  groundson  which  this tentative conclusion appears to	 -have	beenbased  were that four applications-three dated June  17	 andone  dated June 26, 1958, similar in all particulars to	 thefour  which  are  now  found in	 the  office  of  the  JointController of Imports and Exports, Bombay, had been actuallyreceived  but had been rejected and were lying in the  ChiefController's Office; that four similar applications, bearingthe same dates and same particulars which were lying in	 theBombay	Office and also a fifth application dated  July	 22,were  accompanied by five forwarding letters  purporting  tohave been signed by Mr. M. L. Gupta recommending the  prayerfor  licence  and  containing a	 statement  that  the  firstrespondent  had authorised such issue of licences  on  thoseapplications but these signatures purporting to have been ofMr. M. L. Gupta were not really his419signatures ; that while the forwarding letters purported  tostate  that the issue of these licences prayed for had	beenauthorised  by	Mr.  Bilgrami as  the  Chief  Controller  ofImports	 and Exports, New Delhi, he himself knew  that	suchissue  had not been authorised by him.	We find that in	 thevery  notice that was given to the petitioners'	 company  toshow  cause against the proposed action of cancellation,  itwas  stated  that  these  licences  appeared  to  have	beenobtained by fraud.  On the question of particulars of fraud,it has been stated by the first respondent in his  affidavitthat  at  that stage no particulars of the  fraud  could  begiven  by him as they were unknown to him, but that  be	 didinform	the  petitioners' representatives Mr.	Parikh,	   adirector of the Company the second petitioner Mr.  Rangwala,who  is	 the  Chairman	of the	Company	 and  the  Company'ssolicitor,  Mr. Hussaini Doctor of the " general  nature  ofthe  fraud ". In para 23 of his affidavit Mr.  Bilgrami	 hasmade the following statement:-" I say that the Director of the petitioners' Company,	ShriB.  K.	Parekh	and  Shri  Rangwala  and  their	  attorney'spartners,  Mr. Huseni Doctor saw me on the  30th  September,1958.	I told them that the issue of the licences  had	 notbeen authorised by me as they purported to be and that	theyhad  been obtained fraudulently, though at that stage I	 wasunable	to  say	 how  exactly and  by  whom  the  fraud	 wascommitted.   As	 also the investigation by  the	 Police	 wasalready	 in  progress, it was not possible  to	give  minuteparticulars of the fraud.  When the petitioners were told asabove, the petitioners' chairman started raising contentionssuggesting  that  the  fraud might have	 been  committed  byreason of the Gujarati Maharashtrian and anti-Muslim feelingamongst the employees of his firm."The  affidavit in reply was sworn by Mr.  Rangwala  himself.We find therein repeated denials of Mr. Bilgrami's assertionthat  the  Company's  representatives were  told  of  the  "general	 nature of the fraud ". It was worth noting  howeverthat  as regards the categorical statement made in para.  23as to what420Mr. Bilgrami told Mr. Rangwala and others and what they toldhim there is no clear denial.  Dealing with para. 23 of	 Mr.Bilgrimi's  affidavit in para. 20. of his own  affidavit  inreply Mr. Rangwala after saying that the first	respondents,statement  does	 not say anything as to how exactly  and  bywhom the fraud was committed but simply added that the firstrespondent  did	 not say anything beyond the fact  that	 thelicences had been obtained by fraud.  It is significant thatno specific denial was made of Mr. Bilgrami's assertion thatto  Mr. Rangwala, Mr. Parekh and Mr. Huseini Doctor  he	 hadhimself stated that the " issue of the licences had not beenauthorised  by	him  as	 they purported to  be	".  No	lessimportant  is the fact that Mr. Rangwala does riot deny	 theassertion  made by Mr. Bilgrami that he (Mr.   Rangwala)  inthe course of that interview on September 30, suggested thatthe  fraud  might have been committed by reason	 of  certainfeelings amongst the employees of his firm. It is reasonabletherefore to believe that besides stating that the  licenceshad   been  obtained  fraudulently  Mr.Bilgrami	  definitelyinformed  the  Company's representatives  on  September	 30,1958,  that though issue of the licences had been  purportedto  be	authorised  by him-with apparent  reference  to	 theforwarding  letters recommending the issue of the  licences-this  had not actually been authorised and further  that  onreceipt	 of this information the  Company's  representativesinstead of saying that no fraud had been practised and	thatMr.  Bilgrami was making a mistake in thinking that  he	 hadnot  authorised the issue of the licences and  that  perhapshis  memory had failed him took refuge behind the plea	thatit was not the Company but some enemy of the Company who hadperpetrated the fraud.The petitioners' representatives had also an interview	withMr. Sundaram on October 14, 1958.  While we have not got anystatement  of  Mr. Sundaram himself as to what	happened  inthat  interview we find apart from Mr. Bilgrami's  affidavitin para. 24 that Mr. Sundaram also informed the petitioners'representatives at that interview that the recommendations421against	 which	the disputed licences were  granted  to	 thepetitioners were not genuine, (which assertion was  repeatedin slightly different words in para. 29), the fact that	 thefirst respondent's letter dated December 18, 1958, a copy ofwhich  Mr.  Rangwala  annexed  to  his	affidavit  in  replyconcluded with the following words:-" It may be stated that the fact that the following  lettersreferred  to  above were not genuine were mentioned  to	 therepresentatives	 of your firm when they interviewed Shri  D.R.  Sundaram,  Director,  (Administration)  on	October	 14,1958."Though	annexing a copy of this letter to his  affidavit  inreply Mr. Rangwala did not state that this statement in	 theconcluding  portion  of	 the  letter  was  not	true.	Thisjustifies the conclusion that Mr. Bilgrami's assertion	thatMr.  Sundaram  told the Company's representatives  that	 theforwarding  letters  containing the recommendations  on	 thebasis of which the licences had been issued were not genuineis  true.   Mr.	 Bilgrami's statement in  para.	 29  of	 hisaffidavit  is that when Mr. Sundaram informed the  Company'srepresentatives	 of  this they had no explanation  to  give.Dealing	 with para. 29 of this affidavit in para. 23 of	 hisown  affidavit Mr.Rangwala did not state that  Mr.  Sundaramdid not tell them that the licences issued were on the basisof  documents  which were not genuine, or that on  being  sotold they had no explanation to offer.On  a  consideration of the entire background in  which	 thenotice	for cancellation was issued, what was stated by	 thepetitioners in their letter dated September 27, and what  wefind  to  have	taken place at the interviews  on  the	30thSeptember and the 14th October, specially the fact that	 theCompany's  reprepresentatives  appeared to  have  been	moreconcerned  to show that the Company was not a party  to	 thefraud than to show that there was no fraud practised at all,we  are	 of  opinion  that  the	 omission  to  give  furtherparticulars  or	 inspection of papers did  not	deprive	 thepetitioners of a fair chance of convincing Mr. Bilgrami thatthe  grounds  on  which cancellation  of  the  licences	 wasproposed did not exist, or even if they existed,54422they  did not justify cancellation of the licences.  We	 aretherefore of opinion that the opportunity that was given  tothe petitioners in the present case amounted to a reasonableopportunity of being heard against the action proposed.The  petitioners are therefore not entitled to	any  relief.The petition is accordingly dismissed with costs.SUBBA  RAO  J.-I  have had the	advantage  of  perusing	 thejudgment  of my learned brother, Das Gupta, J. I  regret  myinability to agree with his conclusion.The  facts  are fully stated in the judgment of	 my  learnedbrother	 and  I shall, therefore, briefly restate  only	 thematerial facts.	 The first petitioner, M/s.  Fedco (Private)Limited	 (hereinafter  called  the  Company)  is  a  Companyregistered  under  the	Indian	Companies  Act	having	 itsregistered office in Bombay.  It is engaged in the  businessof  dyes, chemicals, plastics and various other goods.	 Thesecond	petitioner  is the Chairman and a  Director  of	 thefirst	petitioner   Company.	 The   Company	 sent	fiveapplications  by registered post to the Chief Controller  ofImports	 and  Exports, New Delhi,  (hereinafter	 called	 theChief  Controller).   Three of the applications	 were  datedJune 17, 1958, one was dated June 26, 1958, and the last wasdated  July 22, 1958.  In the said applications the  Companyprayed	for the issue of import licences to enable  them  toplace  orders and import different types of goods from	WestIn  regard to each of these applications, received a  letterpurporting  to be from the Chief Controller intimating	themthat  their  applications had be-en forwarded to  the  JointChief	Controller   of	  Imports   and	  Exports,   Bombay,(hereinafter called the Joint Controller) with the necessarycomments.   The	 Company acknowledged the receipt  of  theseletters,  Thereafter  five licences were received  from	 theOffice of the Joint Controller, Bombay, and two of them weredated July 24, 1958, another two were dated August 16, 1958,and the fifth was dated September 4, 1958.  On the basis  ofthe said licences, orders were423placed	with a foreign company in West Germany and goods  ofconsiderable value actually arrived in the Bombay port.	  Byletter dated September 23, 1958, the Joint Controller  askedthe Company to return the said five licences granted to themwithout	  entering   into  any	commitments.	After	somecorrespondence between the Company and the Chief Controller,the former received a notice dated September 24, 1958,	fromthe  latter to the effect that the Government had reason  tobelieve	 that the said licences were  obtained	fraudulentlyand  therefore	they proposed to cancel	 the  said  licencesunless sufficient cause was shown against such action  beingtaken  within ten days of the issue of the said notice.	  OnOctober 16, 1958, the Company received an undated order fromthe  Chief  Controller purporting to cancel  the  said	fivelicences.  The Com. pany and their manager filed the presentpetition  under	 Act. 32 of the Constitution praying  for  awrit  of certiorari or other appropriate writ  quashing	 theorder  of  the	Chief Controller cancelling  the  said	fivelicences and directing the Collector of Customs, Bombay,  toassess the goods of the Company which had been imported intoIndia and allow them to clear the same.Mr.   Purshottam   Trikamdas,  learned	 Counsel   for	 thepetitioners  in support of his contentions raised before  ustwo  points, viz., (1) cls. 9 and 10 of the Imports  ControlOrder, 1955, (hereinafter called the Order) where under	 thelicences were cancelled infringe the fundamental rights of acitizen	 under	Art. 19(1)(f) and (g)  of  the	Constitutioninasmuch as-the said provisions constitute an arbitrary	 andunreasonable  restriction  on the said rights; and  (2)	 theChief Controller has not complied with the provisions of cl.10 of the Order as he failed to give the Company  reasonableopportunity  of being heard before the licences	 granted  tothem  were  cancelled  and therefore the act  of  the  ChiefController  in cancelling the licences infringes the  rightsof   the  Company  under  Art.	19(1)(f)  and  (g)  of	 theConstitution.The  first point need not be considered as I am	 clearly  ofthe  view  that	 no " reasonable opportunity  "	 within	 themeaning of cl. 10 of the Order was given to the424petitioners by the Chief Controller.  The material parts  ofcls.  9	 and  10  of the  Order	 read:-clause 9. "Cancellation of Licences. The Central  Governmentor  any other Officer authorised in this behalf	 may  cancelany licence granted under this Order or otherwise render  itineffective(a) if the licence has been granted through inadvertence  ormistake	   or	 has	been   obtained	   by	 fraud	  ormisrepresentation;".Clause	10.  " Applicant or Licensee to be  heard.No  actionshall  be  taken  under	 Clauses  7,  8	 or  9,	 unless	 thelicensee/Importer has been given a reasonable opportunity ofbeing heard."It is not disputed that the Central Government delegated itspowers	to act under these clauses to the Chief	 Controller.The  first  question is, what is the scope  of	the  enquiryunder  cl. 10 of the Order ? Is it purely an  administrativeact  or	 is  it	 a quasi-judicial  act	?  The	criteria  toascertain whether a particular act is a quasijudicial act oran  administrative one have been laid down with	 clarity  byLord  Justice Atkin in Rex v. Electricity Commissioners,  ExParte London Electricity Joint Committee Co.(1),  elaboratedby  Lord Justice Scrutton Rex v. London County	Council,  ExParte  Entertainments  Protection Association Ltd.  (2)	 andauthoritatively restated by this Court in Province of Bombayv.  Khusaldas S. Advani (3).  They laid down  the  followingconditions:  (a)  the  body  of	 Dersons  must	have   legalauthority;  (b) the authority should be given  to  determinequestions  affecting  the rights of subjects  and  (c)	theyshould	have  a	 duty  to act  judicially.   All  the  threeconditions  are	 satisfied in this case.   Under  the  ,saidclauses authority is conferred on the Central Government  orany  other officer authorized in this behalf to	 cancel	 anylicence	 granted under the Order and the cancellation  of  alicence	 certainly affects the rights of subjects.  A  clearduty  to  act judicially is imposed by cl. 10  on  the	saidauthority.   He	 has  to  give	to  the	 affected  party   "reasonable opportunity of of being heard ". It is  thereforeclear that under(1) [1924] 1 K.B. 171.		 (2) [1931] 2 K.B. 215.(3)  [1950] S.C.R. 621.425cls. 9 and 10 of the Order, the Chief Controller performs  aquasi-judicial	act  and is therefore bound  to	 follow	 theprinciples  of	natural	 justice in  cancelling	 a  licence.Clause	10 clearly and without any ambiguity  describes	 theprinciples of natural justice by using the three  well-knownwords and phrase, viz., ' reasonable opportunity " and "  ofbeing heard They imply that when the charge is one of  fraudthe  affected party is entitled to know the  particulars  offraud  alleged,	 to inspect the documents on  the  basis  ofwhich  fraud is imputed to him and to a personal hearing  toexplain	 his case and to absolve himself of the charge	madeagainst	 him.  Without these elementary safeguards  providedby  the authority, the opportunity to be heard given to	 thelicensee becomes an empty formality.  With this background Ishall scrutinize the relevant facts to ascertain whether anysuch reasonable opportunity was given to the petitioners  inthis  case.   The question falls to be decided only  on	 theaffidavits  filed  by the parties.  I shall assume  for	 thepurpose	 of  this petition that the affidavit filed  by	 theChief Controller represents what all had taken place betweenhim  and  the representatives of the  Company.	 The  noticedated	September  24,	1958,  issued  to  the	 petitionerslaconically  states that 'the licences granted by the  JointController  to	the Company were fraudulently  obtained	 andtherefore  it was notified that the Government of India,  inexercise of the powers specified in paragraph 9 of the Orderproposed to cancel the said licences unless sufficient causeagainst	 the  proposed	action was furnished  to  the  ChiefController  within ten days of the date of the issue of	 thenotice.	  On  receipt  of the said  notice,  the  petitionerCompany sent a telegram through their Solicitors  requestingthe  Chief Controller not to publish the said  notification.On September 26, 1958, the Company's Solicitors sent anothertelegram to the Chief Controller requesting him to give themthe  particulars  of the alleged fraud and to give  them  anappointment  for inspection of papers and  documents  reliedupon  by the Chief Controller.	On September 27,  1958,	 theCompany sent a letter to426the  Chief  Controller pointing out the relevant  facts	 andstating	 that  the  petitioner	Company	 had  accepted	 thelicences honestly and had at no time any reason to doubt thebona  fides of the grant of the licences to them; that	theysuspected  they	 were victims of foulplay  by  some  personsinterested   in	 causing  damage  to  them  and	  to   theirreputation;  that  Mr.	B.  K. Parekh,	a  Director  of	 thepetitioner   Company,  and  the	 Company's  Solicitor,	 Mr.Hooseini  Doctor, met the Chief Controller on September	 30,1958,  and  handed  over the explanation  to  him  and	alsopersonally  told him that in the absence of any	 particularsof  the alleged fraud and without inspection of	 the  papersrelied upon by the Chief Controller, it was not possible forthe  petitioner Company to give a complete  explanation	 andthat  the petitioners reserved their right to  give  furtherexplanation  on getting the said particulars and  inspectionof   the  said	papers.	  They	also  requested	 the   ChiefController  to give the Company a personal hearing  to	meetthe  charges after giving the necessary particulars and	 theinspection  of papers asked for.  The Chief Controller	toldthem that the issue of the licences had not been  authorizedby  him	 as  they purported to be and  that  they  had	beenobtained fraudulently, though at that stage he was not	ableto say how exactly and by whom the fraud was committed.	  Healso  did  not	give  them the	particulars  of	 fraud.	 TheDirector of the Company suggested that the fraud might	havebeen  committed by reason of the Gujarati Maharashtrian	 andanti-Muslim  feeling amongst the employees of  the  Company.On  behalf of the petitioner Company, the  Chief  Controllerwas told that it was not possible for the Company to give  acomplete  explanation and that they reserved their right  togive further explanation.  The petitioners were not  allowedinspection of the papers.  By their letter dated October  3,1958,  the  Company  recorded what took place  at  the	saidinterview  and	sent  it  to  the  Chief  Controller.	 Thepetitioners  again  wrote  another  letter  to	the'   ChiefController  reminding  him that they had  not  received	 anyparticulars   of  the  alleged	fraud.	 This	letter	 waspersonally handed over to Mr. Sundaram,497the  Director of Administration in the Office of  the  ChiefController  on	October 14, 1958.  At  that  interview,	 Mr.Sundaram,  told	 the petitioners  that	the  recommendationsagainst	 which the disputed licences were granted  were	 notgenuine.    On	October	 16,  1958,  the  Chief	  Controllercancelled  the said five licences issued to  the  petitionerCompany.  On the aforesaid facts, which we have assumed	 forthe purpose of this petition, can it be said that the  ChiefController gave the petitioners a "reasonable opportunity ofbeing heard " to enable them to establish that no fraud	 hadbeen committed in getting the said licences ?The   learned	Solicitor   General,   appearing   for	 therespondents, contended that the Company admitted the  fraud,that  their only defence was that the fraud might have	beencommitted by reason of the Gujarati Maharashtrian and  anti-Muslim feeling amongst the employees of the Company and thattherefore  the	fact  that the	Chief  Controller  told	 thepetitioners  that  the issue of the licences  had  not	beenauthorized  by him and the fact that Mr. Sundaram  told	 thepetitioners  on October 14, 1958, that	the  recommendationsagainst	 which	the disputed licences were  granted  to	 thepetitioners  were not genuine, were, in	 the  circumstances,sufficient disclosure of the particulars of fraud and  that,therefore, reasonable opportunity within the meaning of	 cl.10  of the order had been given to the petitioners.  I	findit  very  difficult to accept this argument.   The  argumentassumes	 that  the petitioner Company accepted	the  versiongiven  by the Chief Controller or by Mr. Sundaram.  For	 thepurpose	 of  this  petition  it must  be  assumed  that	 thepetitioners were innocent.  The notice was given to them  toshow  cause  why the licences given to them  should  not  becancelled on the ground of fraud.  By letters and in  personthey  requested	 the  Chief  Controller	 to  give  them	 theparticulars  of the fraud, and to allow them to inspect	 therelevant  documents  so	 that  they  might  give  a  furtherexplanation  to show cause against the cancellation  of	 thelicences.  The affidavit filed by the Chief Controller	onlydiscloses  that he, in his conversations with the  Solicitorand the Director of428the  Company,  mentioned to them that he did not  issue	 thelicences.   In the affidavit he admits that they  asked	 forparticulars and for the inspection of  the documents; but hesays  that the petitioners were told sufficiently  what	 wasagainst	 them  and their demand for the	 inspection  of	 thepapers	was  mischievous.  But what he told them  about	 theparticulars of the alleged fraud is, in his own words:"  I told them that the issue of the licences had  not	beenauthorised  by me as they purported to be and that they	 hadbeen  obtained	fraudulently,  though at that  stage  I	 wasunable	to  say	 how  exactly and  by  whom  the  fraud	 wascommitted. "  The conversation with Mr. Sundaram on October 14,  1958,does  not  carry  the  matter  further.	  He  has  not	beenauthorized by the Central Government to make an enquiry	 andthe   fact   that   he	told  the   petitioners	  that	 therecommendations	 against  which the disputed  licences	weregranted	 were not genuine, even if true, does not carry	 thematter	any  further.	The fact,  therefore,  remains	thatnotwithstanding	 specific  request  by	the  petitioners  noparticulars  were  furnished  to  them,	 no  facilities	 forinspection  of the relevant documents given and no date	 wasfixed for the enquiry in regard to the alleged fraud.The learned Solicitor General asked, what was that that	 thepetitioners could have gained if the particulars were  givenand if they were allowed to inspect the relevant  documents?This  is a lopsided way of looking at things.  The  questionshould	have been, what reasonable opportunity to  be  heardwas given to the petitioners to establish their innocence  ?That  apart,  without apportioning any blame either  on	 thepetitioners or on the respondents, many possibilities can bevisualized, viz., (i) the petitioners were guilty of  fraud;they knew that their applications were rejected by the ChiefController,  they got similar  applications  surreptitiouslyintroduced in the Bombay Office with forged  recommendationsunder  the  signature of the Deputy  Chief  Controller,	 NewDelhi,	Mr.  M.	 L.  Gupta, and	 obtained  the	licences  bypractising fraud on the Joint Chief Controller, Bombay; (ii)a third party,429presumably  a rival businessman or members of the  staff  ofthe Company, evolved a complicated scheme of fraud to  causedamage	to the Company and their reputation.  the  Company'senemies	 came to know that the applications of	the  Companywere  rejected,	 then forged fresh  applications,  got	themsurreptitiously introduced in the Bombay Office and got	 thelicences  issued  in favour of the petitioners:	 this  is  arather far-fetched theory; (iii) after the applications wererejected,  fresh  applications were filed in the  New  DelhiOffice, got forwarded to the Joint Chief Controller, Bombay,with  the directions issued by the Deputy Chief	 Controller,New Delhi; (iv) the original applications filed by the	Com-pany were ordered, and not rejected, by the Chief Controlleror  his Deputy and they were sent in due course	 along	withthe   recommendations  duly  signed  by	 the  Deputy   ChiefController  to	the Joint Controller, Bombay, and  that	 thelicences were issued in the usual course: the Office of	 theChief  Controller New Delhi, after realizing  that  licenceswere issued contrary to rules or orders that licences shouldnot  be issued in respect of goods to be imported from	softcurrency  areas,  set  up  a  false  case  of  the  originalapplications  being  rejected  and  the	 fresh	applicationssubstituted in the Bombay Office.  The aforesaid are some ofthe possibilities and there may be many others.	 When noticewas  issued to the petitioners on the ground of fraud,	theywere  certainly	 entitled to the particulars  thereof.	 TheChief Controller could have given the following particulars:(i)  the  petitioners'	applications  were  rejected  on   aparticular   date;  (ii)  the  orders  of   rejection	werecommunicated to them on a particular date; (iii) that he didnot  issue  any letters to the petitioners  as	regards	 theforwarding  of their applications or the recommendations  tothe Joint Chief Controller, Bombay; (iv) after the rejectionof  their applications, the Office of the  Chief  Controllerdid  not receive any letters from the petitioners; (v)	thatthe applications on which the licences were issued were	 notthe  same applications sent to the Delhi Office;  (vi)	thatthe signature of Mr.55430M.  L. Gupta was forged; and (vii) that there is nothing  inthe   Bombay   Office  to  show	 that  they   received	 anyapplications  from the Delhi Office.  If  these	 particularswere   given  to  the  petitioners,  they  might   have	  byinspecting  the	 documents proved that there was  no  fraud,that  there was no order rejecting the-	 applications,	thatthe   despatch	book  showed  that  the	 applications	wereforwarded  to  the  Bombay  Office  and	 that  the  originalapplications  were  not in  that Office, that  the  despatchbook  and  the receipt book showed the	correspondence	thatpassed between the Chief Controller and the petitioners, andthat  the signature of Mr. Gupta on the recommendations	 wasgenuine.  It is not as if the petitioners admitted that theycommitted  the	fraud.	When they were confronted  with	 thenotice,	 unless the particulars were given to them  and	 thedocuments  shown  to them, it was not possible for  them  toknow whether a fraud was committed at all and, if committed,how  was it committed.	Only for the purpose  of  explainingthat  no  fraud was committed by them, they  asked  for	 theparticulars,  for inspection of the relevant  documents	 andfor  a personal hearing: all these were denied to them.	  Inthe  circumstances, I find it not possible to hold that	 thepetitioners were given reasonable opportunity of being heardwithin	the meaning of cl. 10 of the Order.  The stakes	 arehigh and the order of cancellation was made arbitrarily	 andin utter disregard of the principles of natural justice.   Ishould	not be understood to have expressed any	 opinion  onthe  merits of the case.  It may be, or it may not be,	thatthe  petitioners were guilty of fraud; but they should	havebeen  given a reasonable opportunity of being  heard  beforethey were condemned as having committed the fraud and  theirlicences were cancelled. 1, therefore, direct the issue of awrit   of  certiorari  quashing	 the  order  of	 the   ChiefController   cancelling	  the  licences	  granted   to	 thepetitioners.ORDER OF COURTIn accordance with the opinion of the majority the  Petitionis dismissed with costs.431