PETITIONER:RAGHUNATH DAS	Vs.RESPONDENT:GOKAL CHAND AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:01/05/1958BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, S.K.SUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  827		  1959 SCR  811ACT:Limitation-Suit	 for  division of moveable property  by	 co-heir,  if  one	for specific  moveable	property-"  Specificmoveable  Property ", Meaning of--Exclusion from  computatioof  time covered by execution proceeding--Indian  LimitationAct, 1908 (9 of -1908), Arts. 49, 120,	s. 14(1).HEADNOTE:The  words " specific moveable property " occurring in	art.49 Of the Indian Limitation Act can mean only such  specificitems of moveable property in respect of which the plaintiffis entitled to claim immediate possession in specie from thedefendant  who has either wrongfully taken or is  wrongfullywithholding them from him.A  suit by one heir against the others for recovery  of	 hisshare  of the moveable property of a deceased person is	 notone  for a specific moveable property wrongfully taken	suchas  is contemplated by art. 49 and must, in the	 absence  ofany other specific provision in the Act, be governed by art.12o and not art. 49 of the Indian Limitation Act.Mohomed	 Raisat Ali v. Musummat Hasin Banu, (1893)  L,R.  2oI,A. 155, relied on.Consequently,  in  a case where the decree  passed  upon  anaward,	without	 specifying any particular G.  P.  Notes  ordividing them, directed the elder brother to transfer G.  P.Notes of the value of Rs. 13,200 to the younger brother fromout of the G. P. Notes of the total value of Rs. 26,500 leftby the father in the custody of the former, and the  youngerbrother, failing to obtain relief by way of execution of thedecree,	 brought the suit, out of which the  present  appealarises,	 against the elder brother for a division of the  G.P.  Notes  and a direction on him that G. P.  Notes  of	 thevalue of Rs. 13,200 might be transferred to him and  claimedthat  the entire period covered by the execution  proceedingfrom its inception till the final disposal by the High Courtshould be excluded in computing the period of limitation :Held, that the suit in substance was one for the division ofmoveable  property  held  in joint  ownership  and  not	 forpossession of any specific. item of moveable property and assuch  was governed, not by art. 49, but by art. 120  of	 theIndian Limitation Act.Gopal  Chandra Bose v. Surendra Nath Dutt, (1908) 12  C.W.N.1010, distinguished and held inapplicable.812As  the	 facts and circumstances of the case  satisfied	 therequirements  of  s. 14(1) Of the Indian Limitation  Act  incomputing  the	prescribed  period of  limitation  the	timecovered by the execution proceeding from its inception	tillits final disposal by the High Court must be excluded.JUDGMENT:   CIVIL  APPELLATE  JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.  251  of1954.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated April 22, 1952, ofthe Punjab High Court in Civil Regular First Appeal No.	 1/Eof 1947 arising out of the judgment and decree dated July 1,1947,  of the Court of SubJudge, Ambala in Suit No.  239  of1946.Tarachand Brijmohan Lal, for the appellant.Hardayal Hardy, for respondent No. 1.1958.  May 1. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byDAS C. T.-This is a plaintiff's appeal against the  judgmentand decree passed on April 22, 1952, by a Division Bench  ofthe Punjab High Court reversing the decree passed on July 1,1947, by the First Class Subordinate Judge, Ambala in favourof the plaintiff and dismissing the plaintiff's Suit No. 239of 1946.  The appeal has been preferred on the strength of acertificate  granted by the ]Division Bench on December	 19,1952.The facts material for the purpose of this appeal may now beshortly stated: One Lala Beni Pershad died in the year	1910leaving	 him surviving his widow Mst.	Daropadi  (defendantrespondent No. 2) and' two sons by her, namely, Gokul  Chand(defendant  respondent No. 1) and Raghunath  Das  (plaintiffappellant)  who	 was then a minor.  Lala Beni  Pershad	leftconsiderable moveable properties including many G. P.  Notesand  also various immoveable properties	 including  agricul-tural land, gardens and houses.	 After his death the  familycontinued to be joint until disputes and. differences  arosebetween	 the two brothers in 1934.  Eventually oil  November12,  1934, the two brothers executed an agreement  referringtheir  disputes	 relating  to the partition  of	 the  familyproperties  to the arbitration of Lala Ramji Das who  was  acommon relation.813It  is alleged that the respondent Gokul Chand had  disposedof  part of the ()'F.  P. Notes and that at the date of	 thereference  to  arbitration G. P. Notes of the value  of	 Rs.26,500 only were held by Gokul Chand, as theKarta of the family.On  June  21, 1936, the arbitrator made an award  which	 wassigned	by  both the, brothers statedly ill token  of  theiracceptance  thereof.  The award was registered on  July	 28,1936.	By that award the arbitrator divided the  imoveable,properties  and shops as therein mentioned.  As regards	 theG. P. Notes the arbitrator directed and awarded that out  ofthe G. P. Notes of the value of Rs. 26,500, which then stoodin the name of Gokul Chand, G. P. Notes of the value of	 Rs.13,300	should be entered into the names of Gokul Chand	 andMst.   Daropadi and the remaining Notes of the value of	 Rs.13,200 should be endorsed in the names of Raghunatb Das	 andMst.  Daropadi and that till her death Mst.  Daropadi shouldalone be entitled to the interest on the entire G. P.  Notesof  the value of Its. 26,500 and that after her death  GokulChand would be the owner of the ("X.  P. Notes of the  valueof Rs. 13,300 and Raghunath Das of G. P. Notes of the  valueof Rs. 13,200.	The arbitrator further directed Gokul  Chandto pay to Raghunath Das a sum of Rs. 20,000 in four  severalinstalments  together  with interest  thereon  as  mentionedtherein.On  August  31, 1936, Gokul Chand applied  to  the  DistrictJudge, Ambala under paragraph 20, of Schedule 11 to the Codeof  Civil  Procedure  for  filing  the	award.	 During	 thependency of those Proceedings the two brothers entered	intoa compromise modifying certain terms of the award which	 arenot  material for the purpose of the present appeal.  By  anorder made on November 18, 1936, the District Judge directedthe  award  as modified by the compromise to  be  filed	 andpassed	a decree in accordance with the terms of  the  awardthus modified.On  November 15, 1939, Raghunath Das made an application  tothe court of the District judge for execution of the decree.The District Judge transferred the application to the  courtof the Subordinate Judge814who  directed  notice of that application to  be  issued  toGokul  Chand.  Gokul Chand filed objection to the  executionmainly on the ground that the decree had been passed withoutjurisdiction in that the District Judge had no power to passa   decree  for	 partition  of	agricultural   lands.	 TheSubordinate  Judge  on	December 23,  1942,  accepted  GokulChand's	 plea and dismissed the execution  application.	  Onappeal	by Raghunath Das to the High Court a learned  SingleJudge on April 5, 1944, accepted the appeal, but on  LettersPatent	Appeal	filed by Gokul Chand the Division  Bench  onMarch  15, 1945, reversed the order of the Single Judge	 andrestored  the order of dismissal passed by  the	 SubordinateJudge.Having	failed	to obtain the relief granted to him  by	 thedecree	passed	upon the award on the ground  of  defect  ofjurisdiction  in  the  court which  passed  the	 decree	 andconsequently  for  want	 of jurisdiction  in  the  executingcourt,	Raghunath Das, on August 21, 1945,  instituted	SuitNo.  80 of 1945 against Gokul Chand for the recovery of	 Rs.7,310-11-3 being the balance with interest remaining due  tohim  out  of  the said sum of Rs.  20,000,  awarded  in	 hisfavour.	 Gokul Chand raised a number of pleas but eventuallyall  his  pleas were negatived and  the	 senior	 SubordinateJudge,	Ambala, by his judgment pronounced on  December	 22,1945,  decreed the suit in favour of Raghunath	Das.   GokulChand  did  not file any appeal therefrom  and	consequentlythat decree became final and binding as between the  partiesthereto.On  June  5, 1946, Raghunath Das filed in the court  of	 theSenior	Subordinate Judge, Ambala a suit being Suit No.	 239of 1946 out of which the present appeal has arisen.  In thissuit  Raghunath Das claimed that Gokul Chand be	 ordered  totransfer  G. P. Notes of the value of Rs. 13,200 out of	 theG. P. Notes of the value of Rs. 26,500 to Raghunath Das	 andMst.   Daropadi by means of endorsement or some other  legalway,  to get them entered into the Government registers	 andto   make  them	 over  to  Raghunath  Das,  the	  plaintiff.Particulars  of	 the numbers, the year of  issue,  the	facevalue and the interest payable on all the said G. P.815Notes were set out in the prayer.  There was an	 alternativeprayer that Gokul Chand be ordered to pay Rs. 13,200 to	 theplaintiff.  Gokul Chand filed his written statement taking anumber of pleas in bar to the suit.  Not less than 12 issueswere  raised, out of which only issues Nos. 2 and  3  appearfrom  the  judgment of the Subordinate Judge  to  have	beenseriously pressed.  Those two issues were as follows:-"	 (2)Is  the	 suit within time ? and (3) Is the  suit  barred  byOrder	2,  Rule  2  of	 the  Civil  Procedure	Code?"	 TheSubordinate  Judge decided both the issues in favour of	 theplaintiff.   He held that Art. 49 of the  Indian  LimitationAct  had no application to the facts of this case  and	thatthere  being no other specific Article applicable, the	suitwas  governed  by  the	residuary  Art.	 120.	The  learnedSubordinate  Judge also took the view that the	period	fromNovember 15, 1939 to March 15, 1945, spent in the  executionproceedings  should  be excluded under s. 14 of	 the  IndianLimitation  Act in computing the period of limitation  underArt. 120.  The learned Subordinate Judge also held that	 thecause of action in the earlier suit for the recovery of	 thesum  of	 Rs.  7,310-11-3 was not the same as  the  cause  ofaction in the present suit and, therefore, the present	suitwas  not  barred  under 0. 2, r. 2, of	the  Code  of  CivilProcedure.    The  learned  Subordinate	 Judge	 accordinglydecreed	 the suit in favour of Raghunath Das.	Gokul  Chandappealed to the High Court.The  appeal came up for hearing before a Division  Bench  ofthe  Punjab  High Court.  Only two points, were	 pressed  insupport	 of  the appeal, namely, (1) whether  the  suit	 wasbarred by time and (2) whether the suit was barred under  0.2,  r. 2, of the Code of Civil Procedure.   Learned  counselappearing  for Gokul Chand urged that the suit was  one	 forthe recovery of "-other specific moveable property " that isto  say specific moveable property other than those  fallingwithin	Arta. 48, 48A and 48B of the Indian  Limitation	 Actand  was  accordingly  governed by  Art.  49.	Article	 49.provides three years' period of limitationI04816for  a	suit for " other specific moveable property  or	 forcompensation  for wrongful taking or injuring or  wrongfullydetaining  the same " and this period of three years  beginsto  run	 from  " when the property is  wrongfully  taken  orinjured	 or when the detainer's possession becomes  unlawful".  In	the opinion of the High Court the suit was  for	 therecovery  of specific Government promissory notes and  this,according  to the High Court, was plain from the perusal  ofpara. 18 of the plaint which set out the reliefs claimed  bythe  plaintiff in the suit.  The reference to  the  numbers,value and the year of issue of G. P. Notes and the rates  ofinterest  carried by them appeared to the High Court  to  bedecisive  on this point.  The High Court held that the	suitwas governed by Art. 49 and that, as the plaintiff would  beout  of time even if the period between November  15,  1939,and  March  15, 1945, was excluded, the High Court  did	 notthink	it  necessary  to  consider  the  question  of	 theapplicability of s. 14 of the Indian Limitation Act.  As itsfinding on the issue of limitation was sufficient to disposeof the suit, the High Court did not discuss the other  issuefounded	 on 0. 2, r. 2, of the Code of Civil  Procedure	 butallowed the appeal and dismissed the suit as barred bylimitation.We  are unable to accept the decision of the High  Court  ascorrect.  The High Court overlooked the fact that so far  asthe  G.	 P. Notes were concerned the decree upon  the  awardonly  declared the rights of the parties.  Under the  decreeRaghunath Das was entitled to have G. P. Notes of the  valueof  Rs.	 13,200 endorsed in the names of  himself  and	Mst.Daropadi out of the G. P. Notes of the value of Rs.  26,500.The award or the decree thereon did not actually divide	 theG. P. Notes by specifying which particular G. P. Notes	wereto  be	endorsed  in  the names	 of  Gokul  Chand  and	Mst.Daropadi  or which of them were to be endorsed in the  namesof Raghunath Das and his mother.  Until the G. P. Notes wereactually  divided,  either by consent of parties or  by	 thedecree of the court, neither of the brothers could claim anyparticular piece of G. P. Notes as his separate property or817ask  for delivery of any particular C. P. Notes	 in  specie.Gokul  Chand  not  being agreeable to come  to	an  amicabledivision  of the G. P. Notes, Raghunath Das had perforce  toseek  the assistance of the court and pray that	 the  entirelot of C. P. Notes of the value of Rs. 26,500 be divided  byor  under the directions of the court into two lots and	 onelot making up the value of Rs. 13,200 be endorsed in  favourof  him	 (Raghunath Das) and his mother by or on  behalf  ofGokul  Chand and then delivered to him, the  plaintiff.	  Hecould  not in his plaint claim that particular pieces of  G.P.  Notes making up the value of Rs. 13,200 be delivered  tohim in specie.	This being the true position, as we conceiveit,  Raghunath Das's suit cannot possibly be regarded  as  asuit  for a " specific moveable property ". That  expressionis apt only to cover a suit wherein the plaintiff can allegethat  he is entitled to certain specific  moveable  propertyand/or	of which he is presently entitled to  possession  inspecie and which the defendant has wrongfully taken from himand/or	is illegally withholding from him.  That is not	 theposition  here.	  It  should  be  remembered  that  the	 twobrothers  were entitled to the G. P. Notes of the  value  ofRs.  26,500 originally as joint coparceners and	 thereafter,when the decree upon the award had been passed, as  tenants-in-common.  Until actual partition by consent of the partiesor  by court Gokul Chand, who held the custody of the G.  P.Notes, could not be said to have taken them wrongfully	fromRaghunath  Das and his possession of them could not be	saidto  be	or to have become  unlawful.   These  considerationsclearly distinguish this case from the case of Gopal ChandraBose  v.  Surendra  Nath Dutt (1) on which  the	 High  Courtrelied because in that case the defendant had no right to orinterest in the G. P. Notes in question and had no right  toretain	possession  thereof.   Therefore,  to  the   presentsituation  the terminus a quo specified in the third  columnof  Art.  49  can  have no  application.   It  is  now	wellestablished  that a suit by an heir against other  heirs  torecover	 his  share  of the moveable estate  of	 a  deceasedperson is not one for(1)  (1908) XII C. W. N. 1010818specific  moveable  property  wrongfully taken	such  as  iscontemplated  by Art 49, but is governed by Art.  120.	 SeeMohomed	 Riasat	 Ali v. Mussumat Hasin Banu (1).   The	onlydifference  between the facts of that case and those of	 thepresent case is that here the rights of the parties had beendeclared by the decree upon the award but that	circumstancedoes not appear to us to make any material difference in theapplication  of	 the  principle laid down  by  the  JudicialCommittee.  The substance of the plaintiff's claims in	bothcases is for separating his share out of the estate and	 forallotment and delivery to him of his share so separated.  Inshort  such  a suit is nothing but a suit for  partition  ordivision  of  the  moveable properties held  jointly  or  astenants-in-common by the parties and there being no specificArticle	 applicable  to such a suit it must be	governed  byArt. 120.The period of limitation fixed by Art. 120 is six years fromthe  date  when	 the  right  to	 sue  accrues.	 In   order,therefore,  to	be  within  the	 period	 of  limitation	 theplaintiff claims to exclude the period November 15, 1939, toMarch 15, 1945, spent in the execution proceedings.  Section14 (1) of the Indian Limitation Act runs as follows:"  14 (1) In computing the period of  limitation  prescribedfor  any suit, the time during which the plaintiff has	beenprosecuting  with, due diligence another  civil	 proceeding,whether	 in  a	Court of first instance or  in	a  Court  ofappeal,	 against the defendant, shall be excluded where	 theproceeding  is founded upon the same cause of action and  isprosecuted  in	good faith in a Court which, for  defect  ofjurisdiction,  or other cause of a like nature is unable  toentertain it."The  respondent	 contends  that the  above  section  has  noapplication to the facts of his case.  We do not think	thatsuch contention is well-founded.  The execution	 proceedingsinitiated by Raghunath Das were certainly civil	 proceedingsand  there  can be no doubt that he  prosecuted	 such  civilproceedings  with due diligence and good faith, for lie	 wasobviously(i)  (1893) L. R. 20 I.	 A. 155.819anxious	 to  have his share of the G.  P.  Notes  separatelyallocated  to him.  He lost in the execution court but	wenton  appeal  to the High Court where he	succeeded  before  aSingle	Judge, but eventually he failed before the  DivisionBench  which reversed the order the Single Judge had  passedin his favour.	Therefore, there can be no question of	wantof  due	 diligence and good faith on the part  of  RaghunathDas.  In the next place the section excludes the time  spentboth in a court of first instance and in a court of  appeal.Therefore,  other  conditions being  satisfied,	 the  entireperiod mentioned above would be liable to be excluded.	 Theonly  questions that remain are (1) whether the	 proceedingswere  founded upon the same cause of action and (2)  whetherhe prosecuted the proceedings in good faith in a court whichfor defect of jurisdiction ",as unable to entertain it.	 Theexecution proceedings were founded upon his claim to enforcehis  rights declared under the decree upon the	award.	 Thecause of action in the present suit is also for	 enforcementof  the	 same right, the only difference being that  in	 theformer proceedings Raghunath Das was seeking to enforce	 hisrights	in  execution  and in the  present  instance  he  isseeking to enforce the same rights in a regular suit.  Thereis  nothing new that he is asking for in the  present  suit.That   he  prosecuted  the  execution  proceedings  in	 theSubordinate Court as well as in the High Court in good faithcannot	be  denied, for the Single Judge of the	 High  Courtactually   upheld   his	 contention  that  the	 court	 hadjurisdiction  to entertain his application.   The  executionproceedings  failed  before the Division Bench on  no  otherground than that the executing court had no jurisdiction  toentertain  the application, because the decree sought to  beexecuted  was a nullity having been passed by a court  whichhad  no jurisdiction to pass it.  Therefore, the  defect  ofjurisdiction in the court that passed the decree became,  asit  were,  attached to the decree itself and  the  executingcourt  could  not  entertain  the  execution  proceeding  onaccount	 of the same defect.  The defect of jurisdiction  inthe executing court was finally determined when820the Division Bench reversed the decision of the Single Judgewho  had  entertained  the  execution  proceeding.   In	 ouropinion	 Raghunath Das is entitled to the benefit of  s.  14(1)  of	 the Indian Limitation Act and the  period  here  inbefore mentioned being excluded, there can be no doubt	thatthe  suit  was filed well within the  prescribed  period  oflimitation and the judgment of the Division Bench cannot  besustained.In  the	 view  it took on the  question	 of  limitation	 theDivision  Bench did not consider it necessary to go into  orgive any decision on the other issue, namely, as to  whetherthe  suit  was	barred	by 0. 2,  r.  2.  The  suit  should,therefore,  go back to the High Court for  determination  ofthat  issue.  The result, therefore, is that we	 accept	 theappeal, set aside the judgment and decree of the High  Courtand remand the case back to the High Court for a decision onissue No. 3 only.  The appellant will get the costs of	thisappeal as well as the costs of the hearing in the High Courtresulting  in the decree under appeal and the general  costsof  the	 appeal and the costs of further hearing  on  remandwill be dealt with by the High Court.Appeal allowed.Case remanded.821