PETITIONER:THE ASSOCIATED HOTELS OF INDIA, LTD. AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:R. B. JODHA MAL KUTHALIA.DATE OF JUDGMENT:23/08/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)KAPUR, J.L.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1961 AIR  156		  1961 SCR  (1) 259 CITATOR INFO : R	    1975 SC 824	 (27)ACT:Partition  of  India-Creation of two  Dominions,  India	 andPakistan-Formation   of	 new  provinces	 and   transfer	  ofterritories-Decree  passed  by Federal	Court  of  Pakistan-Whether executable in India-Evacuee laws-Whether affect suchdecree--The  Indian Independence Act, 1947, s. 9-The  IndianIndependence  (Legal Proceedings) Order, 1947, art. 4,	cls.1, 2, 3-Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (V of 1908), O. 45, r.15.HEADNOTE:On October 2, 1946, the Associated Hotels of India Ltd., andits managing director, Mohan Singh Oberoi, appellant 1 and 2respectively, entered into an agreement with the  respondentfor purchasing certain property from the latter for a  priceof  Rs. 52,75,000 and paid Rs. 5 lacs as earnest money;	 butas  the respondent's title to the property was found  to  bedefective the sale was not completed.  The appellants  fileda  suit in the Court of Senior Subordinate judge  at  Lahorefor the recovery of Rs. 5,10,000 which included the  earnestmoney  and  interest  accruing thereon,	 and  the  suit	 wasdecreed for Rs. 5,08,333/5/4 with future interest in  favourof  appellant  NO.  2  on March	 14,  1949.   The  claim  ofappellant  No. I was rejected.	On appeal by the  respondentthe  High Court at Lahore reversed the decree of  the  trialcourt  and  dismissed the suit on November  21,	 1949.	 TheFederal	 Court	of  Pakistan on	 appeal	 by  the  appellantsallowed the appeal of appellant NO. 2 on December 21,  1953,and  restored the decree passed in his favour by  the  trialcourt.	 After the passing of the decree by the trial  courtand  before the decision of the respondent's appeal  in	 theLahore	High  Court  the appellants had put  the  decree  inexecution which was stayed at the request of the  respondenton condition that the respondent should deposit Rs. 3,00,000in  the High Court and furnish security for the	 balance  ofthe decretal amount.  In course of the execution proceedingsand after the Federal Court's decree in favour of  appellantNO. 2 the main question that arose, inter alia, was  whetherthe deposited sum of Rs. 3,00,000 should be applied  towardsthe satisfaction of the decree of the Federal Court and paidto  the	 decree-holder	after transferring it  to  India  orwhether	 the custodian of evacuee property in  Pakistan	 wasentitled  to  the money as evacuee  property.	The  decree-holder	and  the judgment-debtor were both agreed  that	 themoney in question vested in the decree-holder and    34260should as requested by him be either transmitted to India orpaid  to  him.	This was resisted by the custodian  and	 theHigh  Court held that the money could not be transferred  toIndia,	and directed the custodian to report  what  interestany   evacuee  had  in	the  money.   It  was  under   thesecircumstances	that   the  appellants	made   the   presentapplication to the Punjab High Court (India) under O. 45, r.15, and s. 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure with a  prayerfor  transmitting  to the Court of  the	 Senior	 Subordinatejudge,	Simla,	the  proceedings' between  the	parties	 forexecution  of  the  said  decree  in  accordance  with	 theprovisions  applicable	for execution  of  original  decreespassed	by the said judge.  Their contention was that  as  aresult	of  the	 provisions  of	 Art.  4(3)  of	 the  IndianIndependence  (Legal  Proceedings) Order, 1947,	 the  decreepassed in favour of appellant No. 2 by the Federal Court  ofPakistan  had become executable in India as if it  had	beenpassed	by  the	 Supreme Court	of  India.   The  respondentresisted  this on the grounds that the application  was	 notentertainable  and the decree could not be executed  in	 theabsence	 of a certificate as required by O. 21, r.  6(b)  ofthe Code of Civil Procedure, that the decree did not attractthe provisions of Art. 4(3) of the Order and that the decreein  question having vested in the Custodian appellant NO.  2was  not  entitled to execute it.  The relevant	 portion  ofArt. 4 of the Indian Independence (Legal Proceedings) Order,1947, runs thus:-	"  Notwithstanding  the	 creation  of  certain	 newprovinces  and the transfer of certain territories from	 theProvince  of  Assam to the Province of East  Bengal  by	 theIndian Independence Act, 1947-(1) All proceedings pending immediately before the appointedday in any civil or criminal court (other than a High Court)in  the	 Province of Bengal, the Punjab or  Assam  shall  becontinued  in  that court as if the said Act  had  not	beenpassed,	 and that the Court shall continue to have  for	 thepurpose	 of  the said proceedings all the  jurisdiction	 andpowers which it had immediately before the appointed day;(2)  Any  appeal or application for revision in	 respect  ofany proceedings so pending in any such court shall be to thecourt  which  would  have appellate or as the  case  may  bedivisional  jurisdiction over that court if the	 proceedingswere instituted in that court after the appointed day, and(3)  effect shall be given within the territories of  eitherof  the	 two  dominions to any judgment,  decree,  order  orsentence of any such court in the said proceedings, as if ithad been passed by a court of competent jurisdiction  withinthe Dominion."Although  the High Court held that the decree sought  to  beexecuted  fell	under Art. 4(1) of the order  and  could  beexecuted  under Art. 4(3) of the said order, it came to	 theconclusion that261the  "	Court  of competent jurisdiction "  was	 the  SeniorSubordinate  judge at Simla and that the  appellants  shouldhave  filed  their application under O. 45 T.  15,  Code  ofCivil Procedure in that Court.	The High Court further	heldthat  the application was incompetent owing to absence of  acertificate  under  O. 21, r. 6(b), of the  Code,  that	 thejudgment  debt was property and its situs was  Pakistan	 andthat the decree vested in the Custodian of Evacuee  Propertyat  Lahore  and was not executable at the  instance  of	 theappellants.   Consequently  the	 High  Court  dismissed	 theappellant's  application under O. 45, r. 25.  On  appeal  bythe appellants on a certificate of the High Court,Held, (Kapur, J., dissenting), that the provisions of Art. 4of the Indian Independence (Legal Proceedings) Order,  1947,did  not  apply to the decree sought to be executed  by	 theappellants.   The pending proceedings to which Art. 4(1)  ofthe order applied would continue before the specified courtseven  though  the  jurisdiction of  the	 said  courts  mightotherwise  have been affected by the passing of	 the  IndianIndependence  Act  or the transfer of  certain	territories.Article 4(1) could not be extended to pending proceedings inrespect	 of which the trial court's jurisdiction was  in  noway  affected by the passing of the Act or the	transfer  ofany territories.Appeals	 would	be  taken against the  judgments  or  orderspassed	in the said proceedings in the same manner in  whichthey would have been allowed if the Original proceedings hadbeen instituted after the appointed day.Protap Kumar Sen and An.Y. v. Nagendra Nath Mazumday, A.I.R.1951 Cal. 511, Ahidhar Ghose v. Jagabandhu Roy, A.I.R.	1952Cal. 846, Naresh Chandra Bose v. Sachindra Nath Deb and Ors,A.I.R. 1956 Cal. 222, not applicable.Per Kapur, J.-The High Court could and should have sent downthe  decree  in question to the	 Senior	 Subordinate  judge,Simla, to execute it in accordance with law.The effect of Art. 4(1) and (3) of the Order was that "	 allproceedings " meaning all suits and other proceedings  wouldcontinue  unaffected  by  the passing of  the  Act  and	 thesetting up of two provinces of West Punjab and East  Punjab,and  also  that	 once  a  decree  was  passed  or   sentencepronounced by a court in either of the new provinces of	 thetwo  Dominions it was to be given effect to as if it  was  adecree or order passed by a Court of competent	jurisdictionin  the	 other Dominion.  The amplitude of the	language  ofArt.  4 is not cut down by any words in the article  or	 theOrder.The meaning of the words appellate jurisdiction " as used incl.  (2)  of  Art- 4 of the Order is  not  affected  by	 thesubsequent  extension of restriction of the jurisdiction  ofthe Court and the decree of the Federal Court of Pakistan iscovered by these words.262The  word  effect " in cl. (3) of Art. 4 is wider  than	 thewords  " enforce or " execute " and is not equivalent  to  "being enforced " by suit on a foreign judgment.Clause 3 of the Art. 4 is in the nature of a deeming  clauseand  makes the decree of the Pakistan Court (West Punjab)  adecree	of a court of competent jurisdiction in East  Punjab(India).Situs of the decree was not Pakistan alone but by a  fictionof  law	 the  decree was a decree of a	court  of  competentjurisdiction in what was the Dominion of India.The  provisions	 of the evacuee law in	Pakistan  would	 notaffect the rights of the appellant to execute the decree  inquestion in India.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No. 320/58.Appeal	from the Judgment and Order dated the 22nd  January,1957,  of the Punjab High Court in Civil Misc.	No. 24/C  of1955.D. N. Pritt, S. N. Andley, J. B. Dadachanji and P.L.  Vohra,for the Appellants.C. K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, A. V. ViswanathaSastri and Naunit Lal, for the Respondent.1960.  August 23.  The Judgment of B. P. Sinha, C. J., P. B.Gajendragadkar,	 K. Subba Rao, and K. N. Wanchoo,  JJ.,	 wasdelivered  by  Gajendragadkar,	J.  Kapur,  J.	delivered  aseparate Judgment.GAJENDRAGADKAR	J.-The Associated Hotels of India Ltd.,	 andits  Managing Director Mohan Singh Oberoi (hereafter  calledappellants 1 and 2 respectively) had filed an application inthe  High  Court of Punjab under O. 45, r. 15 of  the  CivilProcedure Code for executing a decree passed by the  FederalCourt of Pakistan in favour of appellant 2 and against JodhaMal  Kuthalia (hereafter called the respondent).   The	saidapplication was dismissed but, on an application made by theappellants   under   Art.  133(1)  (a)	and   (c)   of	 theConstitution,  the said High Court granted a certificate  tothe appellants and it is with the said certificate that theyhave preferred the present appeal before this Court.263It  is necessary at the outset to state the  material  factsleading to the appellants' application before the High Courtunder  O. 45, r. 15.  It appears that by an agreement  datedOctober	 2, 1947, the respondent had agreed to sell  to	 theappellants certain property known as Nedous Hotel at  Lahorefor  Rs. 52,75,000.  In pursuance of the terms of  the	saidagreement  the	appellants  had	 paid  the  respondent	 Rs.5,00,000 by, way of earnest money.  It, however, turned	 outthat the respondent's title to the property in question	 wasdefective, and so the sale could not be completed.  That  iswhy  the appellants had to file a suit in the court  of	 theSenior Subordinate Judge at Lahore claiming to recover	fromthe  respondent a sum of Rs. 5,10,000; this amount  includedRs.  5,00,000  paid by the appellants to the  respondent  asearnest	 money	and interest accrued due thereon up  to	 thedate of the suit.  In the said suit the trial judge passed adecree for Rs. 5,08,333-5-4 with future interest thereon  at5%  per	 annum in favour of appellant 2. The claim  made  byappellant I was rejected.  This decree was challenged by therespondent  before  the Lahore High Court.  The	 High  Courtupheld the contentions raised by the respondent, allowed hisappeal, set aside the decree passed in favour of appellant 2and dismissed the appellants' suit with costs.	This  decreeled to an appeal by the appellants before the Federal  Courtof  Pakistan.  The Federal Court in turn allowed the  appealin  favour of appellant 2 and restored the decree passed  inhis  favour by the trial court.	 This decree was  passed  onDecember  21,  1953.  The present application  made  by	 theappellants  in the Punjab High Court under O. 45, r.  15  isintended to obtain the execution of this decree.While	the  litigation	 between  the  appellants  and	 therespondent  was	 thus proceeding in the courts	in  Pakistancertain	 other events took place in regard to the  executionof the said decree to which reference must now be made Afterthe trial court had passed its decree and before the date ofthe  decision of the Lahore High Court, the  appellants	 hadput the decree in execution and thereupon the respondent had264applied	 for  stay of the said execution before	 the  LahoreHigh  Court.  On the said application the Lahore High  Courtordered	 that  the  execution taken out	 by  the  appellantsshould	be  stayed on condition that the  respondent  shoulddeposit a sum of Rs. 3,00,000 in the High Court and  furnishsecurity  for  the  balance  of	 the  decretal	amount.	  Inaccordance  with  this order the  respondent  deposited	 theamount	and furnished the security.  Subsequently  when	 theLahore High Court allowed the respondent's appeal he appliedfor a refund of the amount already deposited by him, and hisapplication  was allowed on December 16, 1949.	On the	sameday,   however,	  the  Lahore  High  Court   directed	thatinformation of its order allowing the respondent to withdrawthe amount should be given to the Custodian.  The  Custodianthen moved the High Court on December 20, 1949, for a reviewof  its order on the ground that the amount in question	 wasevacuee	 property  and	as such it  vested  in	him.   Theseproceedings  were  pending before the High  Court  when	 theappellants  had taken their appeal before the Federal  Courtof Pakistan against the High Court's decision.After the Federal Court decreed the claim of appellant 2 thesaid  proceedings  were taken up before the High  Court	 forfinal  disposal.   At  this stage  the	respondent  made  anapplication  before the High Court that the deposit of	Its.3,00,000  should be applied towards the satisfaction of	 thedecree passed by the Federal Court in favour of appellant  2and  he	 stated	 that he wanted	 to  withdraw  his  previousapplication  for the return of the said deposit (R.   F.  A.No. 31 of 1949).Similarly   appellant	2  filed   a   Civil   MiscellaneousApplication (No. 120 of 1954) praying that the amount of Rs.3,00,000   deposited  by  his  judgment-debtor	 should	  betransferred  to	 India,	 or  that, if it  could	 not  be  sotransferred,  it should be held that the Custodian  was	 notentitled to the said amount and so it should be paid to	 thedecree-holder  at Lahore, or that it should be paid to	suchperson	other than the Custodian as may be entitled  to	 it.These two applications265along with the original petition filed by the Custodian	 fora  review  of  the High Court's original  order	 allowing  arefund	to  the respondent were heard together by  the	HighCourt.The  High  Court noticed that both the judgment	 debtor	 andappellant 2 agreed that the amount in question vested in thedecree-holder  and should either be transmitted to India  orpaid to him.  The Custodian, however, resisted this  prayer.Under s. 4 of the Pakistan Transfer of Evacuee Deposits Act,1954,  a  deposit  made in a civil proceeding  to  which  anevacuee	 was entitled and in which no muslim was  interestedcould be transferred to India provided that if the court wassatisfied  that	 if  any of the persons	 interested  in	 thedeposit	 was  not  an  evacuee	the  deposit  shall  not  betransferred.   It  was	under the provisions of	 s.  4	thatappellant  2  had claimed a transfer of the deposit  on	 theallegation that he was an evacuee.  The High Court, however,proceeded  to  consider whether the amount of  Rs.  3,00,000belonged exclusively to appellant 2- and held that on  goingthrough	 the record it was satisfied that though the  decreestood in the name of appellant 2 the amount really  belongedto  the Associated Hotels Limited, and it observed  that  itwas not denied that among the shareholders of the AssociatedHotels Limited there were muslims and non-evacuees.  It	 wasurged  before the High Court by appellant 2 that  since	 thedecree	stood in his name he alone could execute it  and  noquestion  as to the title of appellant I could arise in	 theproceedings   before  the  court.   Curiously  enough	thiscontention  was negatived and appellant 2's prayer  for	 thetransfer of deposit was rejected.  How the High Court  couldhave  considered the question of the title of appellant	  inview  of  the  decree  passed by the  Federal  Court  it  isdifficult to appreciate.  However, on the view that it	tookthe High Court came to the conclusion that since appellant Isome of whose shareholders were muslims and non-evacuees wasentitled  to  the deposit appellant 2 was riot	entitled  toclaim  the transfer of the deposit to India.  In the  resultthe High Court allowed the application of the266Custodian  and	set aside its earlier order  for  refund  infavour	of  the	 respondent.  In regard	 to  the  other	 twoprayers	 made  by appellant 2 the High Court  observed	thatunder  s.  34  of the  Pakistan	 Administration	 of  EvacueeProperty Ordinance it was only for the Custodian to considerwhat  interest,	 if any, an evacuee had in  the	 deposit  indispute,  and so it left that question to be  determined  bythe  Custodian, and directed that the said prayers  made  byappellant 2 would have to be decided after issuing notice tothe Custodian and after the Custodian returns his finding onthe  issue framed by it.  This order was passed	 on  January20,  1956.  It is under these circumstances that the  appel-lants made the present application to the Punjab High  Courtunder O. 45, r. 15 of the Code.The  case  for the appellants was that as a  result  of	 theprovisions  of	s. 4(3) of the	Indian	Independence  (LegalProceedings)  Order, 1947 (hereafter called the Order),	 thedecree passed in favour of appellant 2 by the Federal  Courtof Pakistan had become executable in India as if it had beenpassed	by  the Supreme Court of India.	 On this  basis	 theprovisions of O. 45, r. 15 of the Code were invoked and	 theHigh  Court  was requested to transmit to the Court  of	 theSenior Subordinate Judge, Simla, the proceedings between theparties	 for execution of the said decree in the manner	 andaccording  on the provisions applicable to the execution  ofthe   original	decree	passed	by  the	 said	Judge.	  Analternative  prayer  was made for the same order  under	 theHigh Court's inherent jurisdiction under s. 151 of the Code.This  application was resisted by the respondent on  severalgrounds.  It was urged that neither O. 45, r. 15 nor s.	 151of  the	 Code was applicable, that the decree could  not  beexecuted, and the application made by the appellants in thatbehalf	could  not  be	entertained, in	 the  absence  of  acertificate  required by O. 21, r. 6(b), that the decree  infact did not attract the provisions of s. 4(3) of the  Orderand that appellant 2 was not entitled to execute it  becausethe  decree under execution had vested in the  Custodian  ofEvacuee Property at Lahore.267The  High  Court  has  held that the  decree  sought  to  beexecuted  fell under s. 4(1) of the Order and thus could  beexecuted  under s. 4(3) of the said Order.  As a  result  ofthese findings the appellant was held entitled to invoke therelevant provisions of the Order.  The High Court,  however,came   to  the	conclusion  that  the  court  of   competentjurisdiction specified in s. 4(3) was in the context of	 therelevant  facts in the present case the Court of the  SeniorSubordinate  Judge at Simla and that the  appellants  shouldhave  filed their application before that court.   The	HighCourt  also took the view that the present  application	 wasincompetent  for the additional reason that the	 certificateof  non-satisfaction  had  not been  filed  along  with	 theapplication as required under O. 21, r. 6(b).  According  tothe High Court the judgment-debt was property and its  situswas  Pakistan.	The result of these findings was that  underthe  Pakistan  law  the decree vested in  the  Custodian  ofEvacuee Property at Lahore, and so it was not executable  atthe  instance  of  the appellants.  On	these  findings	 theapplication  made by the appellants was dismissed.   In	 thepresent	 appeal Mr. Pritt has challenged the correctness  ofthese findings.Mr.  Pritt  contends  that  the	 expression  "	a  court  ofcompetent jurisdiction " in s. 4(3) of the Order must mean acourt  which  can pass the decree under execution  and	thatinevitably must mean the Supreme Court of India, because thedecree	under  execution is a decree passed by	the  FederalCourt  of Pakistan.  According to him the High Court was  inerror in holding that the appellants should have produced  acertificate of non-satisfaction because the provisions of O.45, r. 15 do not require such a certificate.  If the  decreeunder  execution  has to be regarded as one  passed  by	 theSupreme Court of India the provisions of O. 45, r. 15 shouldhave  been applied and no additional limitations imposed  onthe  appellants.  Mr. Pritt conceded that the  judgment-debtis  property but disputed the correctness of the  conclusionof  the	 High  Court  that the situs of	 the  said  debt  isPakistan.   He	also urged alternatively that  even  if	 thesitus of the judgment debt is assumed to be Pakistan,  underthe relevant   35268provisions of Pakistan law the property in the judgment-debtdid  not  vest	in the Custodian and  continued	 to  be	 theproperty of appellant 2. Naturally in his opening Mr.  Prittassumed	 that the view taken by the Punjab High Court as  tothe  applicability  of ss. 4(1) and 4(3) of  the  Order	 wasright  and  when  the correctness of the  said	finding	 waschallenged  by	the  respondent	 in  his  reply	 Mr.   Prittsupported the said finding on the merits.On  the	 other	hand,  the  learned  Solicitor-General	 hasseriously  disputed  the  correctness of  the  High  Court'sconclusion  about the applicability of ss. 4(1) and 4(3)  ofthe  Order to the decree in question while he has  supportedthe other findings of the High Court against the appellants.On these contentions the question which logically must firstbe considered is whether the decree under execution attractsthe provisions of s. 4(3) of the Order.The  Order  was made by the Governor-General on	 August	 12,1947, in exercise of the powers conferred on him by s. 9  ofthe  Indian  Independence Act, 1947, and  all  other  powersenabling  him  in that behalf.	Section 1(2)  of  the  Orderprovides  that it shall come into force at once.  Section  2of the Order provides that the appointed day means the	15thof August, 1947.  Section 3 makes provisions for proceedingspending	 immediately before the appointed day in any of	 thespecial tribunals specified in column 1 to the Schedule.  Weare not concerned with the provisions of this section in thepresent	 appeal.   We are concerned with s. 4  which  it  isnecessary to read.Section 4 reads thus:-"4.  Notwithstanding the creation of certain  new  Provincesand the transfer of certain territories from the Province ofAssam  to  the	Province  of  East  Bengal  by	the   IndianIndependence Act, 1947-(1) All proceedings pending immediately before the appointedday in any civil or criminal court (other than a High Court)in  the	 Province of Bengal, the Punjab or  Assam  shall  becontinued  in  that court as if the said Act  had  not	beenpassed,	 and  that  court shall continue  to  have  for	 thepurposes of the said269proceedings  all  the jurisdiction and powers which  it	 hadimmediately before the appointed day ;(2) any appeal or application for revision in respect of anyproceedings  so pending in any such court shall lie  in	 thecourt  which  would have appellate, or as the  case  may  berevisional, jurisdiction over that court if the	 proceedingswere instituted in that court after the appointed day; and(3)  effect shall be given within the territories of  eitherof  the	 two  Dominions to any judgment,  decree,  order  orsentence of any such court in the said proceedings, as if ithad been passed by a court of competent jurisdiction  withinthat Dominion."The  question  which  we have to  consider  is	whether	 theproceedings from which the appeal to the Federal Court arosefall  within  s.  4(1); if they do s. 4(3)  will  come	intooperation.   If, however, the said proceedings do  not	fallwithin	s.  4(1),  s.  4(3)  would  be	inapplicable.	 Theappellants  contend that the words used in s. 4(1) are	wideenough	to include every suit pending in any civil court  inthe  Punjab at the material time, and there is no scope	 forlimiting the extent of the applicability of the said clause.On the other hand, it is urged for the respondent that it isonly  such proceedings as were pending in any court  at	 thematerial  time jurisdiction in respect of which	 would	havebeen  affected by the transfer of certain  territories	fromone  country  to the other that are intended to	 be  coveredunder s. 4(1).	The problem thus posed by the parties is oneof  construction.   As we have already	observed,  the	HighCourt has construed s. 4(1) in favour of the appellants; andwe  have  to consider whether the High Court  was  right  inreaching the said conclusion.Both   the  parties  are  agreed  that	in  construing	 theprovisions  of s. 4(1) of the Order we should bear  in	mindthe object with which the Order was made and should construethe  provisions of the Order after reading them as a  whole.Since  the Order has been passed in exercise of	 the  powersconferred  on  the Governor-General by s. 9  of	 the  IndianIndependence Act it would be useful to refer to the materialprovisions  of the said section.  Section  9(1)(d)  providesthat the270Governor-General  shall	 by  order make	 such  provision  asappears	  to  him  necessary  or  expedient   for   removingdifficulties  arising in connection with the  transition  tothe  provisions	 of  this Act.	It was realised	 that  as  aresult	of  the Act, in carving out  two  Dominions  certainareas  may  have to be transferred from a  Province  in	 oneDominion  to  a	 province in another  Dominion	and  such  atransfer    would   inevitably	 create	  difficulties	  ofjurisdiction  of  the  civil  courts  to  continue  to	 tryproceedings  already  pending before them.  The	 Order	was,therefore,  made  with the object  of  avoiding	 unnecessarycomplications  or  hardship  to the  litigants,	 and  so  itprovided  that	the  proceedings covered by  it	 which	werepending	 at the material time should be continued as if	 theAct  had not been passed.  In other words, a  departure	 wasdeliberately   made  from  the	normal	rules	of   privateinternational law in regard to the enforceability of foreignjudgments.  Both parties are agreed that this was the objectin  making  the Order, and that in construing  the  relevantwords of the Order the courts must bear this object in mind.It  is then urged by the learned Solicitor-General  that  inits  very  nature the Order should be treated  as  temporarythough	he immediately added that it would be alive  and  inoperation until all the proceedings covered by it have	beenfinally and fully disposed of.	No doubt he commented on thefact  that  the Pakistan Government had by  its	 legislativeprocess made a substantial departure from the provisions  ofthe  Order,  and  had  in substance  decided  to  refuse  torecognise judgments and orders of Indian courts to which theprovisions  of	the  Order  undoubtedly	 applied.   In	thisconnection   our   attention  was  drawn   to	the   IndianIndependence (Pakistan Courts Pending Proceedings) Act, 1952(IX  of 1952), which by s. 3 provides  that  notwithstandinganything contained in any of the orders referred to in s. 2,no decree to which this Act applies shall be given effect toby  any	 court or authority in India so far as	such  decreeimposes	 any  liability or obligation on any  government  inIndia.	It appears that the Indian Government was  satisfiedthat  Pakistan had thought it fit to provide that no  decreeor271order passed by a court in India would be given effect to inPakistan,  and so it became necessary that the	position  ofthe  Government	 India	and  the  three	 State	 Governmentsconcerned should be adequately safeguarded.  It is with thatobject	that  this  Act was  passed.  The  Solicitor-Generalcontends  that	though	the R. Order had been  made  by	 theGovernor-General  under s. 9 of the Indian Independence	 Actand  was intended to apply to both the	Dominions  virtuallythe  provisions of the Order are no longer in  operation  inPakistan.   In	our opinion, this  consideration  is  hardlyrelevant in construing the material provisions of the Order.So  long as the Order remains in force and has neither	beenmodified  or repealed it is the duty of the courts in  Indiato  consider its provisions in a fair and reasonable  mannerand  to give full effect to them.  Considerations  based  onthe  unilateral conduct adopted by the Pakistan	 Legislaturein departing from the provisions of the Order cannot, in ouropinion,  have	any  bearing when we are  dealing  with	 thequestion of the construction of the Order itself.  The Orderis in force, and if the decree sought to be executed by	 theappellants  falls  under s. 4(1) it will  attract  the	pro-visions	 of  s. 4(3) and all relevant questions	 arising  inworking	 out  the  provisions of s. 4(3) would	have  to  bejudicially  considered.	 It may be that there may not  be  alarge  number  of  decrees  or	orders	which  still  remainexecutable  and have not been executed and so  occasions  toinvoke	the provisions of this Order may not be too  many  ;but that is another matter.Let  us then consider the provisions of s. 4(1) first.	 Mr.Pritt  has  urged that the appeal to the  Federal  Court  inwhich  the  decree under execution was passed in  favour  ofappellant 2 arose from proceedings which were pending at thematerial  time in a court in the Punjab and as such it	fellwithin the purview of s. 4(1).	He emphasises the fact	thats. 4(1) refers to all proceedings in any civil court in	 thePunjab as well as in the Provinces of Bengal and Assam,	 andhis case is that there is no justification for limiting	 thescope and effect of the wide words used in the first part ofthe clause.  Prima facie there is some force in272this contention ; but, in our opinion, it would be erroneousto construe these words in isolation and apart from the restof  the	 provisions  in the said clause	 it.  self.   It  issignificant that s. 4 refers to the creation of certain	 newProvinces and the transfer of certain terri tories from	 theProvince  of  Assam to the Province of East  Bengal  by	 theIndependence Act.  In other words,  the non-obstante  clausewhich  constitutes  the preamble of s. 4  clearly  indicatesthat  it was the creation of certain new Provinces  and	 thetransfer of certain territories which was the reason for theprovisions  made in the three clauses of the  said  section.It  is	also  significant  that s.  4  is  confined  to	 thespecified   judicial  proceedings  pending  in	only   threeProvinces; that is to say, proceedings pending in  competentcourts either in Sind or in the North West Frontier Provincewhich  are parts of Pakistan and in all the States in  Indiaexcept	Punjab,	 West Bengal and Assam do  not	attract	 theprovisions of the Order.  There is, therefore, no doubt thatthe  High Court was in error in assuming that " the  use  ofthe words gall' in 'all proceedings' clearly indicated	thatall  cases pending in all courts in the two  Dominions	wereintended  to be covered by the Order.  It is  manifest	thatthe Order, in its application to India and Pakistan, coveredonly three Provinces and not all.The  latter  part of s. 4(1) must now  be  considered.	 Thepending	 proceedings  covered by the first part have  to  becontinued in the court where they are pending as if the saidAct  had not been passed, and that court shall	continue  tohave  for  the	purpose	 of the	 said  proceedings  all	 thejurisdiction and powers which it had immediately before	 theappointed  day.	  These two clauses  unambiguously  indicatethat  by the passing of the Act the initial jurisdiction  ofthe court to entertain the proceedings pending before it wasaffected ; that is why, in authorising the said	 proceedingsto continue before the said court the clause proceeds to saythat  the said proceedings shall continue as if the Act	 hadnot been passed.  In other words, reading s. 4(1) as a wholethere can be no doubt that273its provisions were intended to safeguard the continuance ofonly such pending proceedings in respect of which  questionsof Jurisdiction of the trial court would have arisen by	 thepassing of the Act and the transfer of certain	territories.If  proceedings	 were pending before  the  specified  courtsvalidly at the material time, and if the jurisdiction of thesaid  courts  to  continue  with  the  trial  of  the	saidproceedings  was not affected by the passing of the  Act  orthe transfer of the territory, it was wholly unnecessary  toauthorise  the	continuance of the said proceedings  in	 thesaid  court and to provide that the said proceedings  shouldbe  so	continued  as if the Act had not  been	passed.	  Inregard to such proceedings the latter part of s. 4(1)  wouldbe  wholly  redundant.	 The only  answer  which  Mr.  Prittattempted to give in facing this difficulty was that even inregard	 to  proceedings  which	 the  specified	 court	 wascompetent  to  try  even after the passing of  the  Act	 itsjurisdiction  to  execute the decree would  be	impaired  oraffected  and  that was intended to be cured  'by  s.  4(1).This  argument	is clearly far-fetched and  untenable.	 Thejurisdiction  and powers which are saved by s. 4(1)  are  interms described as jurisdiction and powers " for the purposeof  the said proceedings ". It is the jurisdiction  to	con-tinue  with the pending proceedings which had  been  validlyinitiated  and the word " proceedings " in the context	mustmean,  in  the case of a suit, a suit  and  not	 proceedingswhich  may  be taken out to execute the decree that  may  bepassed in such a suit.	Therefore, we feel no difficulty  inholding	 that  s.  4(1) does not apply	to  all	 proceedingspending at the material time before the specified courts butonly  such of them in respect of which the  jurisdiction  ofthe  trial court would have been affected by the passing  ofthe Act or by the transfer of certain territories.Section	 4(2) deals with appeals or revisional	applicationsarising	 from  the pending proceedings covered by  cl.	(1).The  learned  Solicitor-General contends  that	this  clausecannot apply to an appeal before the Federal Court  because,according  to  him,  it is only an appeal in  respect  of  apending proceeding that is274contemplated by the clause.  He argues that the word  appeal" can reasonably mean only one appeal which arises  directlyagainst	 the  decree passed in the pending  proceedings	 andthere	would,	therefore,  be	no  scope  to	extend	 theapplication of s. 4(2) to a second  appeal, as for  instancean  appeal  to the Federal Court in the	 present  case.	  Insupport of this argument he J. has incidentally referred  tothe fact that the Federal Court had not come into  existenceand had no jurisdiction to entertain a regular appeal from adecision  of the High Court at the time when the  Order	 wasmade.	We  are	 not impressed by  this	 argument.   In	 ouropinion	 there is no doubt that the word " appeal "  in	 thecontext	 must mean any appeal or appeals allowed by  law  inrespect	 of  pending proceedings covered by  cl.  (1).	 Anyother  view would lead to unreason. able, if not  anomalous,consequences.	What cl. (2) intends to provide is that	 theproceedings  to which cl. (1) applies should be	 allowed  totake their full course under the law governing them, and thefinal  effective  appellate decision should be as  valid  inregard	to the said proceedings as it would be in regard  tothe  proceedings validly instituted in that court after	 theappointed  day.	  Incidentally, we may point out that  as  aresult	of the combined operation of Order G. G. O.  3	madeon.   February 25, 1948, and the provisions of	the  FederalCourt (Jurisdiction Enlargement) Act, 1 of 1950, the FederalCourt must be deemed to have come into existence and must bedeemed	to  have had powers to entertain  appeals  from	 thedecrees of the High Courts as from the appointed day.That takes us to s. 4(3).  The Solicitor-General con;  tendsthat  the  expression,, effect shall be given  to'  in	thisclause does not mean that the decree shall be executed.	  Itonly  means that the decree shall be recognised as a  decreepassed	by  a court of competent  jurisdiction	and  nothingmore.	His  argument  is that s. 4 wanted to  make  a	verynarrow and limited departure from the ordinary principles ofprivate international law.  It is well-known that except forcases  falling	under ss. 44 and 44A of the  Code  of  CivilProcedure a foreign judgment has to be enforced by a suit;275and  in such a suit the judgment-debtor is entitled to	makecertain	 pleas	against	 the enforcement  of  the  judgment.These pleas are specified by cls. (a) to (f) of s. 13 of theCode.	According to the Solicitor-General, as a  result  ofthe  fiction introduced by s. 4(3), when a foreign  judgmentto  which  s. 4(1) applies is I sought to be enforced  by  asuit  in  an  Indian  court it would  not  be  open  to	 thejudgment-debtor to urge that the judgment or decree has	 notbeen  passed by a( court of competent jurisdiction ;  thoughsuch a plea is permissible under s. 13(a) it is excluded  byoperation of s. 4(3) of the Order; the remaining pleas wouldstill  be available to the judgment-debtor.  If it  is	heldthat  the  word	 " effect shall be given "  means  that	 thedecree	shall  be  executed  quite  clearly  all  the  pleasrecognised  by	s.  13 of the Code  would  be  inapplicable.Therefore,  according to the respondent, the present  decreecannot	be  executed but must be enforced by a suit  and  itwould  be open to the judgment-debtor to raise pleas (b)  to(f)  recognised	 by  s. 13 of the Code.	  This	argument  issought	to be supported on the ground that the	jurisdictionwhich  is  protected  by  s. 4(1) is  a	 national  or  localjurisdiction  whereas  the competent jurisdiction  to  whichreference   is	made  in  s.  4(3)  is	 the   internationaljurisdiction.	  The	distinction   between	these	 twojurisdictions  is  based on the statement  contained  in  anearlier edition of Dicey's "Conflict of Laws" to the  effectthat " Proper Court means a court which is authorised by thelaw  of	 the  country to which it  belongs  or	under  whoseauthority  it  acts,  to adjudicate  upon  a  given  matter,whereas 'Court of competent jurisdiction means a Court whichhas,  according	 to  the principles  maintained	 by  EnglishCourts, the right to adjudicate upon a given matter"(1).  Weought to add that these definitions have been given by Diceyonly to explain the meaning of the said words used by him inhis  Digest  and nothing more, and even so it is  not  shownthat they find a place in the latest edition of the book.(1)  Dicey's " Conflict of Laws", 6th Ed., P. 345.    36276In  considering the merits of this argument it is  necessaryfirst to bear in mind what is meant by the clause " a  courtof  competent  jurisdiction  within that  Dominion  ".	Thisclause	in substance provides inter alia that  the  judgmentshould	be given effect to within the territories of  eitherof  the	 two Dominions, and in doing so	 the  said  judgmentshould	be  treated as if it had been passed by a  court  ofcompetent  jurisdiction within that Dominion.	The  contextthus clearly shows that the words " that Dominion " indicatethe Dominion where effect is being given to the judgment; itcannot possibly mean the Dominion in which the judgment	 hadbeen  delivered, because the competent jurisdiction  of	 thecourt to deliver the said judgment has been already providedfor  by	 s. 4(1).  It would, we think, be idle to  make	 anydistinction  between the jurisdiction prescribed by s.	4(1)and the competent jurisdiction to which reference is made ins.  4(3).  Thus s. 4(3) requires that in the Dominion  whereeffect is being given to a judgment, the judgment should  betreated	 as passed by a court of competent  jurisdiction  inthat  Dominion.	  If  that be so it would  be  difficult  toaccept the plea that the only way in which effect should  begiven is to recognise the judgment as a foreign judgment  assuggested   by	the  learned  Solicitor-General.   If,	 forinstance,  in the present case the judgment of	the  FederalCourt  is treated by the statutory fiction as one passed  bythe  court of competent jurisdiction in India the  words  iteffect	shall  be  given  " used in  the  said	clause	mustinevitably mean that the decree following upon that judgmentshould	be executed in India on the basis that the  judgmenthas been competently pronounced by an Indian court.   Indeedit is clear that unless cl. (3) intended to provide for	 theexecution  of  the judgment covered by cls. (1) and  (2)  itwould serve no purpose whatever.  To say that cl. (3) merelysaves a possible plea in s. 13(1) is to ignore the effect ofcl.  (1)  itself.   By	cl.  (1)  the  jurisdiction  of	 thespecified  court  to deal with the  pending  proceedings  isprovided,  and	so there could be no challenge to  the	saidjurisdiction any longer.  We are, therefore, satisfied	thatcl. (3) in277effect	lays  down  that  the  judgment,  decree,  order  orsentence to which the Order applies is executable and  wouldbe executed as though it bad been passed or pronounced by  acompetent  court in the Dominion where execution is  sought.This  conclusion  is  fortified if we bear in  mind  that  asentence pronounced by a criminal court is dealt with in thesame manner as a judgment delivered or order made by a civilcourt.	It, would be far-fetched to suggest that in the caseof  a sentence pronounced by a criminal court all  that	 cl.(3) authorises to be done is to take recourse to extraditionproceedings  permitted	by law and nothing more.   We  must,therefore,  hold  that	reading the three clauses  of  s.  4together the result is that the pending proceedings to whichcl.  (1) applies would continue before the specified  courtseven  though  the  jurisdiction	 of  the  said	courts	 mayotherwise  have been affected by the passing of the  Act  orthe transfer of certain territories, that the appeals  wouldbe taken against the judgments or orders passed in the	saidproceedings in the same manner in which they would have beenallowed	 if  the original proceedings  had  been  institutedafter  the  appointed  day, and	 that  the  final  judgment,decree,	 order or sentence in the said proceedings would  beexecuted  in either Dominion as if the said proceedings	 hadterminated  in	that  manner in a  competent  court  in	 theDominion  where execution is sought.  Having regard  to	 thevery  serious departure which has been made by cl. (3)	fromthe  ordinary  provisions of private  international  law  itwould not be unreasonable to draw additional support to	 ourconclusion  that  the scope and extent	of  the	 proceedingscovered	 by  cl.  (1) is limited only to  such	cases  wherejurisdiction  of  the specified court was  affected  by	 thepassing	 of the Act or the transfer of certain	territories.It seems to us difficult to assume that in making the  Orderthe Governor-General intended that all decrees, judgments ororders	passed	by  all the courts in  the  three  specifiedStates	should fall under cl. (1) and should be	 capable  ofimmediate  execution in either Dominion under cl.  (3).	  Ifthat were so it is not easy278to appreciate why the two other Provinces which formed	partof  Pakistan as well as the other Provinces in India  shouldhave  been excluded from the scope of this Order.  It  seemsto us that the main. object of the Order was not to  disturbor interrupt judicial proceedings pending in the  respectivecourts	in the Provinces specified where it was	 apprehendedthat  the jurisdiction of the said courts would be  affectedby the passing of the Act.  We have carefully considered thethree  clauses	in question and we are satisfied that  on  afair and reasonable construction s. 4(1) cannot be  extendedto pending proceedings in respect of which the trial court'sjurisdiction  was in no way affected by the passing  of	 theAct or the transfer of any territories.At  this stage we may conveniently refer to three  decisionsof the Calcutta High Court on which Mr. Pritt relied and  towhich  the  High  Court has referred in	 its  judgment.	  InProtap	Kumar Sen & Anr. v. Nagendra Nath Mazumdar  (1)	 theCalcutta High Court was dealing with an execution proceedinginitiated  by the decree-holder in the Alipore Court with  acertificate  of non-satisfaction issued by the Sub-Judge  atJessore	 who  had passed the decree  under  execution.	 Thevalidity of the non-satisfaction certificate appears to havebeen challenged by the judgment-debtor.	 The High Court heldthat the Jessore Court was competent to grant a	 certificateof  non-satisfaction having regard to the provisions  of  s.4(1) and (3) of the Order.  The other point which was raisedwas  in regard to the validity of the Order itself.  It	 wasurged  that  after the Indian Constitution was	adopted	 theIndian Independence Act and orders issued thereunder were nolonger in force having regard to the provisions of art.	 395of  the Constitution.  This argument was also rejected.	  Wemay add that the respondent has not urged before us that theOrder  is  no longer in force and so it	 is  unnecessary  toconsider  that point.  This decision, therefore, is  not  ofmuch assistance in construing the material words used in  s.4(1).In Ahidhar Ghose v. Jagabandhu Roy (2) a decree(1) A.I.R. 1951 Cal. 511.(2) A.I.R. 1952 Cal. 846.279sought	to be executed bad been passed by the Alipore  Courton compromise.	It was a suit between a zemindar who held  aPatni  in respect of lands which at the institution  of	 thesuit lay wholly within the jurisdiction of Alipore Court butas  a  result of the partition part of the  land  went	intoPakistan and thus R. ceased to be under the jurisdiction  ofthe  Alipore Court.  The compromise decree provided for	 thepayment of kist amount by stated installments and it furtherdirected  that in case of default of payment of any  of	 thesaid instalments the entire decretal amount then outstandingwould  be  realisable  by the attachment  and  sale  of	 theproperty in default.  Since the property of the Patni tenurewas situated partly within the jurisdiction of Alipore Courtand  partly outside, the judgment-debtor raised a plea	thatthe claim made by the decree-holder for sale of the propertywithin jurisdiction was incompetent.  With that part of	 thecase we are not concerned in the present appeal.  So far  asthe  applicability of s. 4(1) of the Order is concerned	 thecourt held that s. 4(1) applied to the proceedings and	thatwe  think  was clearly right.  It was a	 proceeding  validlyinstituted before the Alipore Court; the jurisdiction of theAlipore	 Court	was  affected  by  partition,  and  so	 theproceeding fell within the scope of s. 4(1).  There are somegeneral observations made in the judgment on which  relianceis  placed by Mr. Pritt, but the said  general	observationsmust  be read in the context of the facts in the  case	withwhich the court was concerned.	Thus this decision also doesnot really assist the appellants.In  Naresh  Chandra  Bose v.  Sachindra Nath  Deb  and	Ors.(1),the	 principal question which the court  considered	 wasthe effect of the provisions of Art. 395 of the Constitutionon  the	 validity and the continuance of the Order.   As  wehave already pointed out, with this aspect of the matter  weare not concerned in the present appeal.The  next question which must be considered is	whether	 thepresent	 suit  falls within s. 4(1) at all.  The  answer  tothis question must obviously be in the(1) A.I.R. 1956 Cal. 222.280negative.The material allegations made by the appellants  inthe plaint filed by them in the present suit clearly	showthat  the  whole  cause of action  had	accrued	 within	 thejurisdiction  of  the  Senior  Sub-Judge  at  Lahore.	 Theoriginal  contract had taken place at  Lahore,	the propertyagreed to be sold was situated at Lahore, the earnest amountof  Rs.	 5,00,000  was	 paid  by  the	appellants  to	 therespondent at Lahore, the breach of the contract took  placeat  Lahore,  and  so under s. 20(c) of	the  Code  of  CivilProcedure the suit was properly filed in the court at Lahoreand  the jurisdiction of the said court to try the suit	 wasin  no	manner	affected by the passing	 of  the  Actor	 thetransfer  of  territory.  This position was not and  is	 notdisputed.   There  is, therefore, no doubt  that  the  trialcourt  could have proceeded to deal with this suit  even  ifthe  Order  in	question had not been  passed;	and  so	 thestatutory  fiction  raised by the provisions  of  the  Ordercannot	be  invoked  in enforcing a  decree  passed  by	 theFederal Court in an appeal arising from such a suit.  In ouropinion,  therefore, the High Court was in error in  holdingthat the provisions of s. 4 applied to the decree sought  tobe executed by the appellants.In view of this conclusion it is not necessary to deal	withthe  other points which have been decided by the High  Courtand  which  were argued before us.  If we had  come  to	 theconclusion that the suit out of which the appeal before	 theFederal	 Court arose was a pending proceeding under s.	4(1)it  would  have been necessary for us to decide	 some  otherquestions.   We	 would, for instance, have had	to  considerwhich is the court of competent jurisdiction in India  unders. 4(3) is it the Supreme Court ? If yes, do the  provisionsof  O.45,  r. 15 apply if not, does  the  statutory  fictionraised	by s. 4 assist the appellants in invoking  the	saidprovisions  ? If the statutory fiction does not	 assist	 theappellants, to what court should they have applied ? Are thepresent	 proceedings in the nature of execution	 proceedingsbefore	a  transferee  court?  Is the  certificate  of	non-satisfaction  prescribed  by O. 21, r. 6(b) necessary  ?  Itwould also have been necessary to consider the character  ofthe judgment-debt with the281object	of  deciding  whether or not the  decree  vested  inappellant  2,  or in the Custodian of  Evacuee	Property  atLahore.	  As we have already indicated, since we  have	heldthat  the provisions of s. 4 are inapplicable to the  decreesought to be executed by the appellants it is unnecessary todecide these questions.Thus,  though  we have differed from the conclusion  of	 theHigh  Court in regard to the applicability of s. 4    of theOrder that does not affect the final result of the appeal  ;because	 on the view we take about the scope and  effect  ofthe provisions of s. 4 we hold that the application made  bythe appellants before the High Court under O. 45, r. 15	 wasincompetent,  and so the High Court was right in  dismissingit.The appeal accordingly fails and is dismissed with costs.KAPUR  J.  I regret I am unable to agree with  the  majorityjudgment  proposed which I have read with care	and  respectthat  it necessarily deserves and I now proceed to  give  myreasons for this dissent.This  is an appeal by a certificate under Art. 133  (1)	 (a)and (c) against the judgment and order of the High Court  ofPunjab dismissing the appellants' application for execution.The  appellants, the Associated Hotels of India Ltd. and  R.B. Mohan Singh Oberoi, the petitioners in the High Court, byan agreement, dated October 2, 1946, agreed to purchase	 andthe respondent agreed to sell certain properties situate  atLahore	now  in Pakistan for a, sum of	Rs.  52,75,000.	  Inpursuance  of the said agreement the appellants paid to	 therespondent a sum of Rs. 5 lacs by way of deposit or  earnestmoney.	 The sale was not completed as the respondent  couldnot make out a good title to the property agreed to be sold.On May 8, 1947, the appellants filed a suit in the court  ofthe   Senior  Subordinate  Judge  at  Lahore   against	 therespondent  for	 the recovery of Rs.  5,10,000,	 the  amountdeposited  and	interest  thereon @ 6% per  annum  and	alsoclaimed	 future	 interest.   This suit was  decreed  by	 theSenior Subordinate Judge on March 14,1949, for a sum of	 Rs.5,08,333/5/4 with future interest @ 5% per282annum but only in favour of the second appellant R. B. MohanSingh  Oberoi.	 The respondent took an appeal to  the	HighCourt at Lahore and on November 24, 1949, the decree of	 thetrial court was reversed and the suit dismissed with  costs.Against that judgment and decree both the appellants took anappeal	to the Federal Court of Pakistan.  On  December	 21,1953, the Federal Court of Pakistan allowed the appeal,	 setaside the decree of the High Court and restored that of	 theSenior Subordinate Judge, Lahore.After preferring his appeal in the High Court the respondentapplied	 to  and on April 27, 1949, obtained from  the	HighCourt  an  order of stay of the execution on  the  conditionthat he deposited a sum of Rs. 3 lacs in the High Court	 andgave  security for the balance.	 This sum was deposited	 andthe  security  was  furnished and  thus	 the  execution	 wasstayed.	 After the judgment of the High Court the respondentapplied	 to  that  Court for the refund of  the	 three	lacsdeposited  by  him and an order to that effect was  made  onDecember 16, 1949.  By the same order the Lahore High  Courtdirected  notice  to be issued to the Custodian	 of  EvacueeProperty,  Lahore.   On	 December 20,  1949,  the  Custodianapplied for a review of the order of the High Court allowingthe  money  to	be  withdrawn  by  the	respondent  on	 theallegation  that the amount deposited was evacuee  property.He also obtained an interim stay of the order directing	 thereturn	of money to the respondent.  On December  21,  1953,the  Federal Court of Pakistan reversed tile decree  of	 theLahore	High  Court.   Thereafter on January  6,  1954,	 therespondent applied to the High Court praying that the amountdeposited  be  applied towards a part  satisfaction  of	 thedecree	passed against him.  On March 31, 1954, R. B.  MohanSingh  Oberoi appellant No. 2, applied for the	transfer  ofthe  Rs.  3 lacs along with the	 relevant  records  relatingthereto,  to  India under the Transfer of  Evacuee  DepositsOrdinance,   1954  (Ordinance  No.  1  of  1954),  and	 thesubsequent enactment.  In the alternative he submitted	thatthe  Custodian of Evacuee Property was not entitled to	thatmoney and prayed that it be paid to him283at  Lahore  or that it be paid to a person  other  than	 theCustodian  of Evacuee Property but not to the respondent  asthe  latter  had no interest in the money.  On	January	 30,1956,  the Lahore High Court which by then became  the	HighCourt of West Pakistan held (1)	   that the money could	 notbe transferred to India ; (2) allowed	the   petition	 forreview;	 and  (3)  directed the	 Custodian  to	report	whatinterest,  if  any,  any evacuee had  in  the  money.	Thatmatter,	 we  were informed, is under appeal in	the  SupremeCourt of Pakistan.On January 19, 1955, the appellants filed an application  inthe Punjab High Court at Chandigarh under Order 45, Rule 15,Civil Procedure Code and s. 151 of the Code for transmissionof the decree of the Pakistan Federal Court to the Court  ofthe  Subordinate  Judge	 at  Simla  and	 for  directions  todetermine  the	decretal  amount.  In  the  alternative	 theappellants prayed for the decree being sent to the  DistrictJudge  for execution.  They alleged therein that  under	 theprovisions  of Art. 4(3) of the Indian	Independence  (LegalProceedings Order), 1947, hereinafter called the Order	madeunder  s.  9  of the Indian  Independence  Act,	 hereinaftercalled the Act, effect could be given within the territoriesof  the Union of India to the decree passed by	the  FederalCourt of Pakistan and it could be executed as if it had beenpassed by a court of competent jurisdiction within the Unionof  India; that the decree was to be treated as if it was  adecree	of the Supreme Court of India and was executable  bythe  court of the senior Subordinate Judge at Simla  on	 thedecree being transmitted to it by the High Court as providedin  Order  45,	Rule  15,  Civil  Procedure  Code.   In	 thealternative it was prayed that if the procedure under  Order45,  Rule 15, Civil Procedure Code, was not appropriate	 andapplicable,  the decree be sent for execution to the  SeniorSubordinate  Judge's Court "as if it had been passed by	 theCourt  ". With this petition an application in the form	 setout in Order 21, Rule 11, Civil Procedure Code was attached.The respondent pleaded that the decree being a37284decree of a foreign court could not be executed in India andO.  45,	 r. 15, was inapplicable; that the Act	having	beenrepealed by the Indian Constitution the Order had ceased  toexist;	that the decree vested in the Custodian	 of  EvacueeProperty,  Lahore and the "appellants being divested  of  itcould not execute it; that the petition wag not maintainablebecause	 the appellants had not filed a certificate of	non-satisfaction of the court which passed the decree; that Art.4(3)  of the Order was inapplicable as the suit	 pending  inthe Lahore court at the time of the partition did not sufferfrom any defect of jurisdiction as a result of the partitionof  India; and that the appellants could not  simultaneouslytake execution proceedings in the courts of two	 independentcountries in regard to the same decree.On January 22, 1957, the High Court of Punjab dismissed	 thepetition  holding that in spite of the coming into force  ofthe Indian Constitution the Order was still in force; that "all  cases pending in all courts in the two  dominions	wereintended  to be covered by the Order ", and the only way  inwhich  a decree of a civil court in Pakistan could be  giveneffect to was to allow it to be executed in India; that	 thecourt of competent jurisdiction mentioned in the Order wouldbe  the	 court of the Subordinate Judge First Class  at	 theplace where the decree was sought to be executed and  there-fore the proper procedure was not to apply to the High Courtbut to apply for a transfer certificate and after  obtaininga  non-satisfaction  certificate from the Federal  Court  ofPakistan  or from any other competent court in Pakistan,  toexecute	 the decree in the court of the	 Senior	 SubordinateJudge,	Simla; that the appellants had been divested of	 allrights in the decree by the Evacuee Law of Pakistan and theyhad no right to execute the decree.  In this connection	 theHigh  Court held that the situs of the decree  was  Pakistanwhere  the  decree was passed and that the amount of  Rs.  3lacs  which  was being claimed by the Custodian	 of  EvacueeProperty,  Lahore,  will be taker. into	 account  after	 thedecision of that matter by the courts of Pakistan.  Thus thepetition of the appellants			    285was  dismissed.	 It is against this judgment and order	thatthe appellants have come in appeal to this court.The  first question for decision is the construction of	 thefourth	clause of the Order.  The High Court did not  acceptthe  contention	 of  the  respondent  that  the	 Order	 wasapplicable  only to proceedings over which R. the court	 hadlost  its  territorial jurisdiction consequential  upon	 thedivision  of the border districts and not to in	 proceedingspending in any court in the provinces of the two  dominions,i.e., in any court of the provinces of East and West  Punjabor East or West Bengal.	 This contention was repeated beforeus and the same Constricted interpretation was sought to  beput on the words of Art. 4(1) of the Order.  An	 examinationof the provisions of the Act and other Orders made hereunderwill  be helpful in determining the scope of Art. 4  of	 theOrder.	The object of the Act was to provide for the settingup  of	the  two independent Dominions	in  India,  to	makesuitable changes in the Government of India Act, 1935, and "to  provide  for the matters consequential on  or  connectedwith  the  getting  up of those Dominions ".  By  s.  1	 twoseparate  Comings of India and Pakistan were set up.  By.  2the  territories  which were to fall in the  two  respectiveDominions were delimited.  Certain provinces wholly fell  inone  Dominion  or  the other,  but  three  provinces,  i.e.,Bengal, the Punjab and Assam were to be provided between thetwo Dominions which was done under ss. 3, 4 and 9(6) of	 theAct.   Under  s.  3  the  province  of	Bengal,	 as  it	 wasconstituted under the Government of India Act, 1935,  ceasedto   exist  and	 in  as	 place	two  new  provinces  to	  berespectively   known  East  Bengal  and	 West  Bengal	wereconstituted.   Under the first schedule of the	Act  certaindistricts  wholly fell in East Bengal and the rest  in	WestBengal.	 this was subject to the Award of the Boundary	Com-mission in regard to the boundary between the two  provinceswhich  meant  between  contiguous  districts  the  two	 newprovinces.  Similarly under s. 4 the province of the  Punjabwas  divided  into  West Punjab and East  Punjab  and  wholedistricts  mentioned in schedule 2 fell in West	 Punjab	 andthe rest in East286Punjab, but this was also subject to the Award to be made bythe  Boundary  Commission which though made  on	 August	 12,1947,  was  published on August 17, 1947,  and	thus  becameoperative  on  that  day.  There was some dispute  as  to  aportion of the province	   of Assam and it, as a result of aplebiscite, was in corporated in the province of East Bengaland the rest of the province of Assam was constituted  unders.  9(6) of the Act into what became the province of  Assam.The Award of the Punjab Boundary Commission shows that	onlysmall areas of the border tehsils of the border districts ofGurdaspur,  Amritsar  and  Ferozepur  in  East	Punjab	 andSialkot, Lahore and Montgomery in West Punjab, i.e., tehsilsalong the rivers Ravi and Sutlej were affected by the  Awareand the territories exchanged were not numerous of large  byany standard.The setting up of the two Dominions and the division of	 thethree provinces of Bengal, the Punjab and Assam gave rise tomany   problems	 relating  to  legislative,  executive	 andjudicial  branches of the Government including the  divisionof assets, liabilities and powers.  Certain provisions	weremade  in  the  Act itself, but in order	 to  give  effectiveoperation to the purposes of the Act it became necessary  topromulgation  Orders which was provided for in s. 9  of	 theAct  an	 which comprised all the three	branches  of  governmental activity; executive, legislative and judicial Section9 provided and I quote the relevant provisions:	      "	 9(1)  The Governor General shall  by  order	      make  such provision as appears to him  to  be	      necessary	      expedient-	      (a) for bringing the provisions of this Act in	      the effective operation ;	      (b)   for dividing between the new  Dominions,	      and   between   the  new	 Provinces   to	  be	      constituted   under  this	 Act,  the   powers,	      rights,  property, duties and  liabilities	      of the Governor General or, as the case me be,	      of the relevant Provinces which, under this  A	      are to cease to exist;	      (c)   .......................................................	      287	      (d)   for	 removing  difficulties	 arising  in	      connection with the  transition	  to	 the	      provisions of this Act;......(i)  so	 far  as  it  appears  necessary  or  expedient	  inconnection  with any of the matters aforesaid,	for  varyingthe constitution, powers or jurisdiction of any legislature,court  or other authority in the new Dominions and  creatingnew legislatures, courts or other authorities therein ".By  sub-s.  (6)	 the Province of Assam on  a  certain  eventhappening was to cease to exist and was to be reconstituted.Provision  was also made in the section for  continuance  ofthe existing laws.  In exercise of the powers conferred uponhim under the Act the Governor General of India	 promulgateda number of Orders.In  regard to other provinces unaffected by the Act, it	 wasunnecessary to make any Order as to the executive,  judicialor legislative functions of the government and	consequentlynone  were made.  But wherever any provision  was  necessarywhether in the sphere of the Dominion or of the provinces ofBengal, the Punjab and Assam various Orders were made by theGovernor  General  which included Orders in  regard  to	 theFederal Court because of the setting up of the two Dominionsand in regard to the High Courts of Calcutta and Lahore.The Federal Court Order was promulgated on August 11,  1947,by Art. 5 of which all proceedings which were pending in theFederal	 Court immediately before the appointed day were  tocontinue in the Federal Court of India on or after that	 daywith  the proviso that if it appeared to the Court that	 anysuch  case ought to be transferred to the Federal  Court  ofPakistan  those proceedings were to be transferred  to	thatCourt and with regard to those proceedings the	jurisdictionof the Pakistan Court was exclusive.  Any order made in	 theproceedings which were pending in the Federal Court of Indiaand  were  continued on or after the appointed	date  becameenforceable  not  only in India but also in Pakistan  as  ifthey  were  orders made by the Federal	Court  of  Pakistan.This  is clear from the language used in those articles	 andit was so288held in regard to the High Court of Calcutta by the  FederalCourt in Midnapore Zemindary Co. Ltd. v. Province of  Bengaland others (1) where Patanjali Sastri, J. (as he then  was),said:-"  It  will  be seen that, by virtue  of  these	 provisions,notwithstanding the constitution of the new province of EastBengal	as part of the Dominion of Pakistan, the decree	 nowunder  appeal which was made by the High Court	of  Calcuttabefore the appointed day is to have effect in East Bengal asif  it was an order made by the High Court of  East  Bengal,while any decision of this court as the " appellate court  "confirming,  varying or reversing that decree is to  receiveeffect	as  if that decree were also a decree  of  the	HighCourt  of East Bengal.	In other words, the  judgment  underappeal is to be regarded as a judgment of the High Court  ofEast Bengal and quoad hoc this Court as the Court of  appealfrom that High Court ".For  the purposes of defining the jurisdiction of  the	HighCourts of Calcutta and Lahore, for the establishment of	 theHigh Courts for the five new provinces, for specifying theirpowers	and  the extent and limit of  the  effectiveness  oftheir orders the Governor General made four orders on August11,  1947,  i.e., The High Courts (Bengal) Order,  The	HighCourts	(Punjab) Order, The High Court (Calcutta) Order	 andthe  High Court (Lahore) Order.	 Under Art. 13 of  the	HighCourts	(Punjab)  Order original proceedings in	 the  LahoreHigh  Court were to continue in that High Court but  appealsand  revisions pending immediately before the appointed	 daystood transferred to the High Court of East Punjab where thecourt of origin was situated in the province of Delhi or theProvince of East Punjab.  That Order provided that any ordermade  by  the  High  Court of  East  Punjab  in	 proceedingstransferred to it was to have effect not only as an order ofthat  High Court but also of the High Court of Lahore;	Art.13(5).	 Further it provided that where before or after	 theappointed  day	any  order had	been  confirmed,  varied  orreversed on appeal, effect shall be given to the decision ofthe appellate court as if the order appealed(1)  [1949] F.C.R. 309, 318.289from were an order not only of the High Court that made	 theorder but also of the High Court of East Punjab or of Lahoreas the case may be.There  still remained the problem of the civil and  criminalproceedings  pending in the courts subordinate to  the	HighCourts.	  The other provinces of India and Pakistan  had  nosuch problem which the abolition of three provinces created.In order to declare the courts where the pending proceedingswere  to  be tried and to specify the  jurisdiction  of	 thecourts and the effect of their orders and decrees the  Orderwas  made by the Governor General.  It was No. G. G. O.	 11,dated August 12, 1947, and its relevant articles were:-" (3) Notwithstanding the setting up of the two	 independentDominions  of  India and Pakistan and the  creation  of	 newProvinces by the Indian Independence Act, 1947,-(1)  all   proceedings	 pending  immediately	before	 theappointed  day in any of the Special Tribunals specified  incolumn 1 of the Schedule to this Order shall be continued inthat  Tribunal as if the said Act had not been	passed,	 andthat Tribunal shall continue to have for the purposes of thesaid  proceedings all the jurisdiction and powers  which  ithad immediately before the appointed day ;(2)  notwithstanding anything contained in any other law  tothe contrary, any appeal from or application for revision ofany order or sentence of the Tribunal in a case specified incolumn 2 of the Schedule to this Order shall lie to the HighCourt  specified in the corresponding entry in column  3  ofthe said Schedule; and(3)  effect shall be given within the territories of  eitherof  the two Dominions to any order or sentence of  any	suchSpecial	 Tribunal  as  aforesaid and of any  High  Court  inappeal or revision therefrom as if the order or sentence hadbeen  passed  by a court of competent jurisdiction  in	thatDominion.(4)  Notwithstanding  the creation of certain new  provincesand the transfer of certain territories from the Province ofAssam  to  the	Province  of  East  Bengal  by	the   IndianIndependence Act, 1947,-290(1)  all   proceedings	 pending  immediately	before	 theappointed  day in any civil or criminal court (other than  aHigh  Court) in the Province of Bengal, the Punjab or  Assamshall be continued in that court as if the said Act had	 notbeen  passed, and that court shall continue to have for	 thepurposes  of the said proceedings all the  jurisdiction	 andpowers which it had immediately before the appointed day.(2)  any  appeal or application for revision in	 respect  ofany  proceedings so pending in any such court shall  lie  inthe court which would have appellate, or as the case may be,revisional  jurisdiction over that court if the	 proceedingswere instituted in that court after the appointed day; and(3)  effect shall be given within the territories of  eitherof  the	 two  Dominions to any judgment,  decree,  order  orsentence of any such court in the said proceedings, as if ithad been passed by a court of competent jurisdiction  withinthat Dominion.	  THE SCHEDULE	  (See Article 3)1		       2		3Special Tribunal    Cases	     High CourtFirst Special	    All cases	     The HighTribunal			     Court inCalcutta...			     Calcutta.Second Special	    All cases	     The HighTribunal			     Court inCalcutta.			     Calcutta.First Special  1.Crown v. Sohan Lal  The HighTribunal...	 Bhayana, Shanta  Court ofLahore.		Nand, and Ram	     East		Lal Sharma.	     Punjab.	       2. Crown v. Major C.  The High		  A. Hunt, M. A.     Court in		  Sheikh  Hussain    Lahore.		 and Din and Naja-		 muddin.			    2911		       2		    3		   3. Crown v. Major C.	  The High		    A. Hunt, Subedar	  Court in		    Sant Ram Bhatia	  Lahore.		    and M. A. Sheikh.Second Special	   1. Crown v. R. B. L.	 The HighTribunal,	       Padam  Chand   Court inLahore....	       Teela and another.  Lahore.		    2. Crown v. J. K. Gas  The High		      Plant Manufactur-	   Court in		      ing Co., Ltd., Jug- Bombay.		      gilal Kamlapat		     (Rampur) Ltd., B.		      B. Mathur and		      S. K. Seth.		      3. Crown v. Juggilal   The High		       Kamlapat. Gas	 Court in		       Plant Manufactur-   Bombay.		       ing Co., Ltd.,		       Juggilal Kamlapat			(Rampur) Ltd.,		       Kailashpat Singhania,		       B. B. Mathur, and		       S. K. Seth.		       4. Crown v. Madanlal   The High			Dalmia, Lakshmi	      Court of			Chand Jain, Rang       East			Lal, Kishan Sax-       Punjab.			ena, Ranchor Das			Bagri, Ganga Das			Mohta Ram Gopalss			Daga, and Balabh		       Das.Third Special		 All cases		The HighTribunal,					Court ofLahore.						 East						 Punjab.Under  Art. 3 of the Order proceedings were to	continue  inthe respective Special Tribunals but appeals38292therefrom  lay	to  different High Courts  set	out  in	 theSchedule  thereto and effect was to be given to	 the  ordersmade  and sentences passed by the Tribunals or by  the	HighCourts	to which the appeals lay within the  territories  ofeither	of  the	 two Dominions as if the  'orders  bad	beenpassed by a court of Competent jurisdiction in the  Dominionin  which effect was given.  Therefore	notwithstanding	 thepartition,  for	 offences committed in any part	 of  BritishIndia,	if  the	 accused  were convicted  by  any  of  theseTribunals  whether  at Lahore or Calcutta  the	orders	wereeffective throughout India or Pakistan as the case may be.Now we come to Art. 4. An important fact to be kept in	viewis  that  the  award  of the  Boundary	Commission  was	 notpublished  till	 August 17, 1947, i.e., two days  after	 theappointed day.	Thus the two new provinces, East Punjab	 andWest  Punjab,  upto that date were comprised  of  whole	 andundivided  districts as specified in Schedule 2 of  the	 Actand  the  territorial  jurisdiction of	the  courts  of	 thevarious	 border	 districts  was till then  unaffected  as  aresult merely of the partition.	 The non obstante clause  inArt.  4 refers to the creation of new provinces and  to	 thetransfer  of certain territories from the province of  Assamto  the province of East Bengal.  The language of cl.  1  ofthe article is of wide amplitude.  It comprises and  appliesto  all pending proceedings in any civil or  criminal  court(other	than  a High Court) in the  erstwhile  provinces  ofBengal, the Punjab and Assam.  It declares that the  pendingproceedings  would  Continue in the courts where  they	werepending	 immediately  before August 15, 1947, and  qua	suchproceedings   the  court  was  to  continue  to	  have	 thejurisdiction  it would have had as if the Act had  not	beenpassed,	 i.e., three provinces had not ceased to  exist	 andfive  new  provinces had not come into	existence  in  theirplace  with  all  the consequential changes.   There  is  noindication  in	the first part which limits,  constricts  orcircumscribes the amplitude of the words of that clause.  Itcontains  no  limitation  either  by  express  words  or  byimplication.  The words "all proceedings" and "in any  civilor criminal court" are indicative of their comprehensiveness			    293and  negative  the  idea  of a	mere  change  based  on	 theterritorial  jurisdiction  of  the court.  The	Act  in	 itssecond schedule contemplated the division by whole districtsand  it is well-known that the Punjab Government,  as  otherGovernments to be affected by the Act, had made an extensivesurvey	of the Punjab with a view to giving effect to the  "Cabinet formula " for dividing the province; charts had beenprepared, survey maps of revenue estates, maps of the  canalirrigation  system and distribution of population  accordingto  religious  communities were prepared  by  the  cleverestofficers  of  the  Government.	It was on  this	 basis	thatschedules in the Act were prepared.  The Award of Sir  CyrilRadcliffe  (as	be then was) shows that	 little	 change	 wasrequired  to  be made in the dividing line prepared  by	 thePunjab	Government.   The major change was of  one  districtminus  its  trans  Ravi	 Tahsil.   It  is  significant	thatwhatever the intention was to imply a change in	 territorialjurisdiction and its effect it was specifically so stated  ;e.g.,	Art.  3	 of  the  Indian  Independence	 (Income-taxProceedings)  Order  of August 12, 1947, which	was  in	 thefollowing terms :"  Where before the appointed day the jurisdiction of a	 taxofficer	 under	the  relevant Tax Act has  been	 altered  inconnection with the setting up of the Dominions of India andPakistan,  or where after the appointed day the case  of  anassessee  is transferred from one Dominion to the  other  byagreement  between the Central Board of Revenue of  the	 twoDominions, and by reason of such alteration of	jurisdictionor  transfer the case of an assessee falls to be dealt	withon  or	after the appointed day by the	tax  authorities  ofIndia,	or as the case may be, of Pakistan, all	 proceedingsrelating  to  the case pending before any tax  authority  ofPakistan,  or  as  the	case  may  be  of  India,  shall  betransferred to the corresponding tax authority of India,  oras the case may be of Pakistan, and shall be disposed of  bythe last mentioned tax authority in accordance with law ".Respondent also relied on the fact that by unilateral actionPakistan bad by statute made the decrees of294Indian	courts	including East Punjab  ineffective  in	WestPunjab and that an Indian Act had made similar provision  asto   decrees  against  the  Government.	  This	 is   hardlyindicative  of	the  true meaning of art. 4 but	 if  it	 canafford	any  indication	 it only  supports  the	 appellants'contention  that,, all proceedings" in Cc any court  "	werewords  of wider connotation.  But limitation is sought	fromthe words of the second part of the clause :" and that court shall continue to have for the purposes  ofthe  said proceedings all the jurisdiction and powers  whichit had before the appointed day ". These words have no	sucheffect and do not circumscribe the amplitude of the languageof the first part of the clause.  They are merely dispersiveof  the	 doubts	 which a strict adherence to  the  rules  ofprivate International Law as accepted in courts founded uponthe principle of effectiveness and submission might cast  onthe  extent of jurisdiction and powers of the courts of	 thenew   provinces	 where	pending	 proceedings  were   to	  becontinued.The  language  of  arts.  3 and 4 of  the  Order  is  almostidentical except that there is no mention of the transfer ofterritory  from	 Assam to East Bengal  in  the	non-obstanteclause	of  art. 3 and the three provinces  of	Bengal,	 thePunjab and Assam are not mentioned in cl. 1 of that  articlebecause	 in the context they were irrelevant.  The words  inart.  3	 must necessarily have wide  amplitude	because	 thecases before the tribunals related to offences committed  invarious	 parts	of  India.  Is there any reason	 to  give  adifferent  and	constricted meaning to those same  words  inart. 4 of the Order.  The mention of the three provinces wasnecessitated  by  their	 ceasing to exist.   But  the  wordsemphasised by the respondent in the second part of cl. 1  ofart.  4, i.e., " for the purposes of the said proceedings  "are common.  They only mean that qua the proceedings pendingin the particular court the jurisdiction and powers were  toremain	the same as they were before the division.  The	 useof these words only carries out the intention of the  makersof the			    295Order and subserves the objects of the Act, i.e.,  providingmachinery   for	 an  orderly  continuance  of	the   normalfunctioning of the judicial system.Under  the Civil Procedure Code the jurisdiction  of  courtswas  not  based only on effectiveness or submission  but  onlocation of property, cause of action or residence.   Unlessexpressly   or	 impliedly   taken   away   ordinarily	 thejurisdiction and powers of a Court conferred under a Statutecontinue  if the Court continues to exist and that  is	alsothe  principle	of s. 9 of the Civil  Procedure	 Code.	 Thegeneral doctrine of English law is that in the absence of anAct  of	 Parliament the exercise of  civil  jurisdiction  isfounded	 upon one of the two principles-of effectiveness  orsubmission,  i.e., either the subject-matter of suit  is  inEngland	 or the defendant is present at the time of  serviceof  the	 writ in England.  If neither of these	elements  ispresent the maxim actor sequitur forum rei applies: Cheshireon  Private International Law, pp. 139-40 (3rd Ed.);  SirdarGurdyal Singh v. Rajah of Faridkote (1) where this  positionhas  been clearly stated.  In that case it was held that  inall personal actions the courts of the country in which	 thedefendant  resides, not the courts of the country where	 thecause of action arose, should be resorted to.  The defendantthere was residing in and was domiciled in the State of Jindand  at the date of the suit had ceased to be a resident  ofFaridkote  which  passed the decree based on  the  cause  ofaction	arising	 there.	  Such decrees it was  held  were  anullity	 under International law.  The Privy Council  at  p.185 said :-"  The general rule is " that the plaintiff must sue in	 thecourt to which the defendant is subject at the time of	suitActor  sequitur	 forum rei which is rightly  stated  by	 SirRobert	Philli more (International Law, Vol. 4, p.  891)  tolie  at the root of all international and of  most  domesticjurisprudence on this matter.  All jurisdiction is  properlyterritorial, and " extra territorium jus dicenti, impune nonparetur	 ". Territorial jurisdiction attaches (with  specialexceptions)   upon   all  persons  either   permanently	  ortemporarily(1)  [1894] 21 I.A. 171.296resident within the territory while they are within it ; butit  does not follow them after they have withdrawn  from  itand when they are living in another independent country.  Itexists	always as to land within the territory ; and it	 maybe  exercised  over moveables within the territory,  and  inquestions  of status or succession governed by domicile,  itmay  exist as to persons domiciled or who when	living	weredomiciled,  within  the	 territory.   As  between  differentprovinces  under  one sovereignty (e. g.,  under  the  RomanEmpire) the legislation of the sovereign may distribute	 andregulate  jurisdiction ; but no territorial legislation	 cangive jurisdiction which any foreign court ought to recogniseagainst	 foreigners, who owe no allegiance or  obedience  tothe Power which so legislates ".Thus  jurisdiction may be conferred by Statute as under	 theCode  of  Civil	 Procedure or it may be	 based	on  the	 twoprinciples  of English Law above stated.  If the latter	 arethe  exclusive guides in the matter of competence then	mereaccrual	 of  cause  of	action	will  not  make	 the   courtcompetent.    Obviously	 therefore  arts.  3  &	 4   are   arecognition of the rule above stated which would remove	 anydoubts created as a result of the division of the  provincesand  of	 difficulties resulting therefrom.  We	cannot	losesight  of  the fact that the people of the province  of	 thePunjab	divided	 into West and East Punjab and	so  also  ofBengal	were so intertwined both in regard to  relationship,succession,  property and business dealings that if no	suchprovision  had been made it would have led  to	uncertainty,hardships and chaotic conditions, which would equally be theconsequence  of	 the  interpretation contended	for  by	 therespondent.If  the interpretation contended for by the respondent	wereaccepted in every case the litigant would have had to decidewhether	 his  suit  could be continued or  was	hit  by	 theprinciples  above discussed, a decision which  is  difficultanywhere  more	so  in the Courts subordinate  to  the	HighCourts.	 The absence of a provision made in the Order  wouldhave created an almost impossible position in regard to most297proceedings.   Even  in	 the  case  of	suits  dealing	withimmoveable  property the difficulty would have arisen  whereproperty  was  situated in the jurisdiction of	more  courtsthan  one, the courts being in the two new provinces of	 thePunjab,	 e.g., suits for partition of property,	 succession,enforcement of mortgages and declarations of title under theprovisions   of	 the  Punjab  Land  Revenue  Act.    Greateruncertainty  would  have arisen in cases  where	 decrees  oforiginal  courts  were under appeal in districts  and  stillmore in suits where preliminary decrees had been passed	 andfinal  decrees	remained  to be made.  Even in	cases  of  amatrimonial  or testamentary nature, in cases  dealing	withguardianship   and   custody   of   infants,	maintenance,restitution  of conjugal rights and suits of a	like  naturethe  absence of a provision like art. 4 of the	Order  wouldhave  created  almost  unsurmountable  difficulties.   Thesecases  are illustrative of the various kinds of	 proceedingswhich  had  to	be  provided  for.   In	 order	to  overcomedifficulties  and remove doubts and hardships the Order	 wasmade  by  the Governor-General in such general	terms  usinglanguage of wide amplitude.  Thus the necessity to start newproceedings, pay fresh court fees and have fresh trials	 wasobviated.This interpretation is strengthened by reference to criminalcases.	The jurisdiction of criminal courts under Chapter XVof the Criminal Procedure Code is dependent upon variety  ofcircumstances  any  one	 of  them could	 give  rise  to	 theconflict  of jurisdictions.  One of the simplest case  wouldbe  the	 trial of an offender where a case  was	 transferredfrom one district to another and the two districts fell intodifferent  provinces.	His  trial could  not  be  continuedwithout	 cl.  1 of art. 4 nor  conviction  become  effectivewithout cl. 3. The absence of a provision like art. 4 of theOrder	would  lead  to	 inconvenience	if   not   confusingsituations in cases where a person could, under the CriminalProcedure  Code,  be tried in different courts	of  the	 twoPunjabs	 and  the  rules of  International  Law	 supervened.Instances  could be multiplied in regard to  criminal  caseswhere but for the wider meaning given298to  the article the legality of the proceedings	 would	haveseriously been jeopardized.The  third  clause  of art. 4 is  couched  in  equally	widelanguage and it had necessarily to be so and was meant to beso, the object being remedial and to effectuate the  orders,decrees and sentences passed by courts.	 Without this clausethe  first clause would have been of little purpose  becauseif the judgments, decrees and sentences passed by courts  ofone part of the Punjab were to be treated merely as  foreignjudgments then the whole object of the Order would have beendefeated.   It	has  to be emphasised  that  in	 the  Ordersrelating  to  the Federal Court and to the  High  Courts  ofCalcutta and Lahore which have been discussed in a  previouspart of this judgment effect was given to the judgments	 andorders	of  one court as if they were the judgments  of	 theother court also and this was recognised in the judgment  ofthe  Federal  Court  in	 Midnapare  Zemindary  Co.  Ltd.  v.Province  of Bengal & Others (1).  Similar words used  must,in  the absence of any indication to the  contrary,  receivethe  same meaning and it is significant that Parliament	 hasused   the  same  words	 in  a	later	Statute-The   IndianIndependence Pakistan Courts (Pending Proceedings) Act IX of1952.  which was passed to make ineffective the	 orders	 anddecrees	 of Pakistan courts passed by virtue of the  SpecialOrders	under the Act for the continuance of proceedings  incourts in Bengal, Assam and the Punjab.	 By s. 3 of that Act(IX of 1952) it was provided:-"  Section 3. Notwithstanding anything contained in  any  ofthe  orders referred to in s. 2, no decree to which the	 Actapplies	 shall be given effect to by any court or  authorityin  India in so far as such decree imposes any liability  orobligation on any Government in India ".This  recognises  the force of art. 4(3) of  the  Order	 andthere  is no indication in that Statute that Parliament	 wasdealing	 with  the limited territory contended	for  by	 therespondent.It was argued that the intention of cl. 3 of art. 4(1)  [1949] F.C.R. 309.			    299was  that the court passing the decree or order would  be  acourt  of competent jurisdiction within s. 13 of  the  CivilProcedure Code and the question of jurisdiction of the courtpassing	 the  decree would not be available  to	 the  losingparty, the submission being that the word " effect " did notmean the same thing  as " execute ".It  may be pointed out that the respondent never raised,  atthe  trial,  the  question of  jurisdiction.   He  submittedvoluntarily  to the judgment of the Lahore Court and he	 canat  no later stage be heard to say that the judgment is	 notbinding	 on him: Cheshire on Private International  Law,  p.140  (3rd Ed.). The word effect " is wider than the words  "enforce	 "  or execute ". There are decrees  which  are	 notexecuted  in  the ordinary sense of the term but  are  giveneffect	to;  e.	 g., decrees for  dissolution  of  marriage,restitution of conjugal rights and injunction.	In  criminalmatters	 it  would  mean carrying out the  sentence  of	 thecourt.	 It was for these reasons that the word "  effect  "was used in cl. 3 of arts. 3 and 4 of the Order.  After	 thepartition all these courts situated in the two new provincesof  West  Punjab and East Punjab became foreign	 courts	 quaeach  other  and therefore certain judgments  and  sentencespassed	and  orders made in regard to certain cases  in	 theabsence	 of the Order might no longer have  been  effective.As  has	 already  been stated it was to	 provide  for  thesedifficulties  and for removing all doubts as to	 the  juris-diction of courts in the provinces which had cased to  existthat  art. 4 was promulgated and a  consequential  provisionhad  to be made to give effect to these various decrees	 andorders.	  That decrees passed in courts of one new  provinceof  the Punjab were to be treated as if they were passed  bythe  courts  of	 competent jurisdiction	 in  the  other	 newProvince  of  the Punjab is shown by the language  used	 andparticularly  the  words " court of  competent	jurisdictionwithin	that  Dominion	".  The use of	the  words  is	verysignificant.  Similar words were used in cl. (3) of art.;  3where  also effect was, to be, given. to the  orders  passedby, the Special Tribunal sitting in300Lahore in regard to offences which might have been committedanywhere  in  India.  It has not been suggested	 that  thosewords  were  of	 lesser	 amplitude  and	 did  not  make	 theconviction  good  in any part of India or  Pakistan  or	 theconviction was ineffective anyWhere in those two  Dominions.It  might  be  repetitive  as an  argument  but	 is  equallyefficient in the case of cl. 3 of art. 4 as it was in cl.  3of the third article.It was also argued that a court of competent jurisdiction incl.  3 was used in the same sense as in	 International	Law,i.e.,  a  court which has the right to adjudicate  upon	 thematter.	  In  the  context it can only	mean  the  court  asenvisaged in cl. 1 of art. 4 or a court of similar and equalor  co-ordinate	 jurisdiction but exercising  it  under	 theCivil Procedure Code or Criminal Procedure Code in either ofthe  Punjabs in the two Dominions as the case may be.	Thiswould clearly show that the effect of art. 4(1) and (3)	 wasthat all proceedings meaning all suits and other proceedingswould continue unaffected by the passing of the Act and	 thesetting	 up of two provinces of West Punjab and East  Punjaband  also  that	 once  a  decree  was  passed.	or  sentencepronounced by a court in either of the new provinces of	 thetwo  Dominions it was to be given effect to as if it  was  adecree or order passed by a court of competent	jurisdictionin the other Dominion.Submission  was then made that in cl. 2 of art. 4  referenceto  any	 appeal or to the court which would  have  appellatejurisdiction  did not include the Federal Court of  Pakistanbecause it was not in existence at the time and the  FederalCourt  which came into existence as a result of the  FederalCourt Order was a court of limited jurisdiction.  The word "appeal " there cannot be read as confined to only one appealbecause the provision made for appeals is that it shall	 liein the court having appellate jurisdiction over the court asif proceedings were instituted after the appointed day,	 andfor  proceedings  instituted after, the	 appointed  day	 thejurisdiction of the Privy Council had been conferred by	 thelaws of Pakistan on the301Federal Court of Pakistan.  In these circumstances it  wouldbe contrary to the intention of the words used in the  Orderto restrict the appeals to the District Judge or to the HighCourt  but  they  must be taken to include  appeals  to	 thehighest court to which appeals could be taken.It  was	 then submitted that at the time when the  suit	 wasfiled  the jurisdiction of the Federal Court was  a  limitedone and no such appeal as was subsequently taken could	havebeen taken to that court at that time.	The Federal Court ofPakistan  was undoubtedly a court of appellate	jurisdictionover  the courts including the High Courts even	 though	 itsjurisdiction  fell under s. 205 of the Government  of  IndiaAct,   1935.	The  meaning  of  the  words   "   appellatejurisdiction " as used in cl. (2) of art. 4 of the Order  isnot  affected by the subsequent extension of restriction  ofthe  jurisdiction  of  the court because the  scope  of	 theappellate  jurisdiction	 may vary from time to time  but  itstill	remains	 appellate  jurisdiction.    See   MidnaporeZemindary Co. Ltd. v. Province of Bengal and Others (1).The  next question for decision is whether as a	 consequenceof evacuee legislation in Pakistan the appellant No. 2	losthis rights in the decree.  The respondent contended that  bys.  6  of the Pakistan Administration  of  Evacuee  PropertyOrdinance,  1949 (Act XV of 1949), the decree must be  takento  have vested and be deemed always to have vested  in	 theCustodian  with	 effect from March 1, 1947.  The  decree  indispute	 was passed by the Senior Subordinate Judge in	1949and  no	 claim was made by the Lahore Custodian	 of  EvacueeProperty in regard to it nor is there any proof that he	 hasdone  so up to the present.  Under s. 13 it was open to	 theCustodian  to  publish,	 by  notification  in  the  officialgazette,  this decree in the list of evacuee properties	 butit  has not been shown that that has been done.	 Section  11of that Ordinance which was in the following terms was	how-ever relied upon by the respondent:-" Section 11(1).  Any amount due to an evacuee(1)  [1949] F.C.R. 309.302or payable in respect of any evacuee property, shall be paidto the Custodian by the person liable to pay the same ".It  is true that if the decree is evacuee property  and	 hasvested in the Custodian then the Custodian can claim paymentfrom the judgment debtor.  The appellant urged two  points:-(1)  that  the situs of the decree was the  place  where  itcould be effectuated and therefore where the debtor  residesand (2) it was for the Custodian to decide as to whether  itwas  evacuee property or he had made no such  decision.	  Ifanything  the  decree  had never  been	treated	 as  evacueeproperty  by  the  Custodian and it could no  longer  be  sotreated	 because of s. 3 of the Pakistan (Administration  ofEvacuee Property) Act, 1957 (XII of 1957), the relevant partof which is as follows:-"  Section  3(1).   Property not to be	treated	 as  evacueeproperty  on  or after 1st January, 1957  :  Notwithstandinganything  contained in this Act, no person or  property	 nottreated as evacuee or as evacuee property immediately beforethe first day of January, 1957, shall be treated as  evacueeor, as the case may be, as evacuee property, on or after thesaid date ". As to the situs of the decree Mr. Pritt  reliedon certain English cases which deal with the situs of a con-tract  debt  and  referred to the following  cases:  In	 re,Russian	  Bank	 for  Foreign  Trade  (1);   Sutherland	  v.Administration	of German Property (1); 'The  Jupiter'	(3).In  this court in Delhi Cloth & General Mills Co.   Ltd.  v.Harnam	Singh & Others (4) it was held that situs varies  inthe  case of simple contract debts.  At page 423  Bose,	 J.,observed:-"  But when all is said and done, we find that in every	 oneof  these cases the proper law of the contract was  applied,that is to say the law of the country in which its  elementswere  most  densely  grouped and with  which  factually	 thecontract was most closely connected ".Applying  these	 rules it would appear that the situs  of  acontract debt would be where the defendant(1)  [1933] 1 Ch. 745.(2)  [1934] 1 K.B. 423.(3)  [1927] P. 250.(4)  [1955] 2 S.C.R 402.303resides.   But	it was submitted by the	 learned  Solicitor-General that the situs of the decree or judgment is where itwas recorded and reliance was placed on Attorney-General  v.Bouwen(1).   According	to  Dicey's Conflict  of  Laws	(7thEdition)  p.  506,  judgment debts  are	 situate  where	 thejudgment   is	recorded   and	 according   to	  Cheshire'sInternational Law p. 456:-"  With	 regard to this theory there can, of course,  be  nodoubt  that  a	debt  is deemed by English  law	 to  have  adefinite locality of its own for several different purposes,such  as the exercise of jurisdiction, the payment of  deathduties,	  and  the  grant  of  probate	or  of	letters	  ofadministration ", and again pp. 519-520:-    "  For the purposes of jurisdiction to make a  grant  ofprobate or administration, however, it has long been settledwith  respect  to chooses in action and titles	to  propertythat  judgment	debts  are  assets  where  the	judgment  isrecorded;  leases,  where the land  lies;  specially  debts,where  the  instrument happens to be;  and  simple  contractdebts,	where  the  debtor  resides  at	 the  time  of	 thetestator's death ".The authority for this is an observation of Lord Abinger, C.B.,  in	 Attorney-General  v. Bouwen  (1)  from	 where	thispassage	 has been taken.  That was a case of a claim by	 theCrown  for  probate duty on foreign securities held  by	 thetestatrix  at  the time of her death and  the  question	 fordecision was whether for the purposes of administration theywere  assets locally situate within the jurisdiction of	 theOrdinary.  As they were sold and delivered by the  executorswithout doing any act outside the jurisdiction of the  Ordi-nary,  duty  was  payable  in  England.	  The  above  quotedobservation   was  made	 in  connection	 with  the   limitedjurisdiction  of  the Ordinary.	 Thus it  appears  that	 thereason given by Lord Abinger for a judgment or decree havingits  situs  where  it is recorded is  that  it	is  normallyenforceable  in	 the country in which it is given;  for	 thepurposes of jurisdiction for the grant of probate,  judgmentdebts are assets where the judgment is recorded.  But in thepresent case by a fiction(1)  (1838) 4 AL & W. 172; 150 E.R. 1390, 1398.304of  law	 the decree is also decree of a court  of  competentjurisdiction  in what was the Dominion of India and now	 theUnion  of India.  Consequently the provision of the  evacueelaw  will not affect the rights of the appellant to  executethe  decree in this country.  Secondly for the	purposes  ofjurisdiction to grant probate a judgment debt may have situsin the country where it was recorded but as was pointed	 outby  this Court in Delhi Cloth & General Mills Case (1),	 themost densely grouping of elements may also have to be  takeninto  account  and  in the  peculiar  circumstances  of	 thepresent	 case  where  the judgment-debtor  is  residing	 anddomiciled  in  East  Punjab  where  the	 judgment  debt	  isenforceable , the situs of the judgment-debt would not	onlybe  in	Pakistan.   Furthermore the  judgment-debtor  is  anevacuee	 qua  Pakistan and his property, if any,  must	haveequally	 vested in the Custodian and the only country  wherethe decree can be enforced will be in India.No  argument was addressed in support of the finding of	 theHigh Court that a transfer and non-satisfaction	 certificatewas  necessary to execute the decree of the Federal  Court,.In  the view that I have taken of art. 4(1) and (3) no	suchobjection is sustainable.  Even if Order 45, Rule 15,  CivilProcedure Code may be inapplicable the High Court could	 andshould have sent down the decree to the court of the  SeniorSubordinate   Judge,  Simla,  to  execute  the	 decree	  inaccordance with law.To sum up I am of the opinion that (1) the amplitude of	 thelanguage  of  art.  4 is not cut down by any  words  in	 thearticle	 or  in the Order and therefore the  decree  of	 thecourts	 of  West  Punjab  passed  in  proceedings   pendingimmediately  before  the  appointed  day  are  not   foreignjudgments  in  East Punjab and	the  limited  interpretationcontended for by the respondent is not sustainable. (2)	 Thedecree	of the Federal Court of Pakistan is covered  by	 thewords  " appellate jurisdiction " in cl. 2 of art. 4 of	 theOrder. (3) The word " effect " in cl. 3 of art. 4 is of wideconnotation  and  is not equivalent to 'being  enforced'  bysuits on a(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 402.			    305foreign judgment. (4) Clause 3 of art. 4 is in the nature ofa deeming clause and makes the decree of the Pakistan  court(West Punjab) a decree of a court of competent	jurisdictionin  East Punjab (India). (5) Situs of the decree is  not  inPakistan  alone but the legal fiction applies to that  also,and  (6)  the evacuee A laws of Pakistan do not	 affect	 theeffectiveness of the decree in India.I  would  therefore  allow this appeal	and  set  aside	 thejudgment  and order of the High Court.	The appellants	willhave their costs throughout.BY  COURT: In view of the majority Judgment, the  appeal  isdismissed with costs.				  Appeal dismissed.		 ___________________