PETITIONER:RAM DIAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:SANT LAL AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:23/04/1959BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.KAPUR, J.L.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR  855		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 748 CITATOR INFO : R	    1969 SC 734	 (8) D	    1969 SC 851	 (24) E	    1970 SC2097	 (261,312A) R	    1984 SC 309	 (38) RF	    1986 SC   3	 (19,15,209)ACT:Election Petition-Allegation of corrupt practice-Mandate  tovoters by religious leader-Undue influence-Representation ofthe  People  Act,  1951 (27 Of	1951),	s.  123(2),  Proviso(a)(ii).HEADNOTE:This  appeal was directed against concurrent orders  of	 theElection  Tribunal  and the High Court	on  appeal,  settingaside  the  appellant's election to the	 Punjab	 LegislativeAssembly on an election petition filed by the respondent No.1,  on	the ground of corrupt practice	of  undue  influencewithin	the meaning of proviso (a)(ii) to s. 123(2)  of	 theRepresentation	of the People Act, 951.	 A large  number  ofvoters	of  the	 constituency were Namdhari  Sikhs  and	 theappellant,  under  the authority of  the  supreme  religiousleader	of  the	 Namdhari  Sikhs and  his  son,	 issued	 thefollowing  poster and distributed it widely  throughout	 theconstituency,-749"A  command  from  Shri	 Sat  Guru  Sacha  Padshah  to	 theNaindharies of Halqa-Sirsa"."Every Namdhari of this Halqa is commanded by Shri Sat	Guruthat he should make every effort for the success of Shri RamDayal  Vaid,  a candidate for the Punjab  Vidhan  Sabha,  bygiving	 his  own  vote	 and  those  of	 his   friends	 andacquaintances,	it  being  our	primary	 duty  to  make	 himsuccessful  in	the election.  The election symbol  of	ShriVaid is a riding horseman.Sd. Maharaj Bir SinghS/o.  Sat Guru Maharaj Pratap Singh,Jiwan Nagar (Hissar)."Both  the Tribunal and the High Court found that  the  reli-gious leader not only issued the said hukam or command,	 butalso  delivered speeches to the effect that  every  Namdharimust  vote for the appellant implying that  disobedience  ofhis  mandate  would carry divine  displeasure  or  spiritualcensure and practically left no free choice to the  Namdharielectors.Held, that the case clearly fell within the purview of	pro-viso  (a)(ii)  to  s. 123(2) Of the  Representation  of	 thePeople Act and the appeal must be dismissed.The law in England relating to undue influence at elections,was  not  the same as the law in India.	 While	the  law  inEngland	 laid  emphasis upon the individual  aspect  of	 theexercise  of undue influence, under the Indian law what	 wasmaterial was not the actual effect produced but the doing ofsuch  acts  as were calculated to interfere  with  the	freeexercise of an electoral North Durham's case, (1874) 2 O'M. & H. 152, referred to.Decisions  of the English Courts in this regard,  therefore,could not be used as precedents in India.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 108 of 1959.Appeal from the judgment and order dated November 25,  1958,of the Punjab High Court in F.A.0. No. 173 of 1958.A.   V. Viswanatha Sastri and Naunit Lal, for the appellant.M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, V. A. Syed Mohammadand M. K. Ramamurthi, for respondent	No. 1.R.   H. Dhebar, for respondent No. 3.1959.  April 23, The Judgment of the Court was delivered by750SINHA, J.-When the hearing of the appeal had been  concludedon March 18, 1959, we had informed the parties, as also	 thecounsel	 for  the  Election Commission of  India,  that	 theappeal	is dismissed with costs, and that the reasons  wouldfollow.	 We now proceed to give our reasons.This is an appeal on a certificate of fitness granted by theHigh  Court  of	 Judicature  for  the  State  of  Punjab  atChandigarh,  against the judgment and order  dated  November25,  1958, of that Court, dismissing an appeal	against	 theorder of the Election Tribunal, Hissar, dated September	 14,1958,  setting aside the appellant's election to the  PunjabLegislative  Assembly.	 The appellant	was  the  successfulcandidate  from the general seat which was  a  double-memberconstituency of Sirsa, the other successful candidate  beinga  Harijan  candidate-respondent No. 2 in this	Court.	 Thefirst  respondent contested the general seat.  The  ElectionCommission of India was added as the third respondent by  anorder  of  this Court, dated February 27,  1959,  when	thisCourt was moved in the stay matter.  This Court directed thecase itself to be heard before the date fixed for the  freshelection as a result of the order of the Election Tribunal.It appears that for the double-member constituency of Sirsa,there  were  a large number of candidates.  One of  the	 twoseats  was  reserved for members of  the  scheduled  castes.After the usual withdrawals, sixteen candidates were left inthe  field to contest the two seats, eight candidates  beingfor the general seat, and the other eight, for the  reservedseat.  We are not here concerned with the seat reserved	 formembers of the scheduled castes.  In respect of the  generalconstituency,  the appellant secured 27,272  votes,  whereasthe  first  respondent secured 23,329, as a  result  of	 theelection  which	 took place on March 12 and 14,	 1957.	 Theresult of the election was declared on March 17, 1957.The first respondent filed an election petition on April 2891957,  challenging  the	 election  of  the  appellant.	 Theelection  was  challenged  on a	 large	number	of  grounds-practically exhausting all available751grounds	 under	the  election law-but as  a  result  of	 thefindings of the Election Tribunal and of the High Court,  weare  only  concerned  with the	allegations  relating  to  "corrupt	 practices  ", contained in sub-paras.	I  to  3  ofpara.  13B of the election petition, which formed the  basisfor  issue No. 4. The relevant allegations may be stated  inextenso in the words of the election petition, as under:-" (B) : That respondent No. I himself, his agents and  otherpersons	 with  the consent of the respondent No. 1  and	 hisagents	 have  committed  the  corrupt	practice  of   undueinfluence  by  interfering directly or indirectly  with	 thefree  exercise	of the electoral right of the  'electors  ofthis  constituency.   The  known details  of  these  corruptpractices  are given in the various clauses under  the	sub-para. :-(1)  Sat  Guru	Maharaj	 Pratap Singh of  Jiwan	 Nagar,	 thereligious  head	 of  Namdharis sect of the  Sikhs  had	somepersonal  grievances  against Shri Devi Lal  of	 Chautala  aprominent Congress Leader of the constituency, and the chiefsupporter  of the petitioner at this  election.	  RespondentNo.  1	fully  knowing of this grievance  of  the  Sat	Guruapproached  him	 and  through him  also	 approached  MaharajCharan Singh of Sikanderpur the religious head of the  RadhaSwaini	Samaj and got issued Farmans (orders) by both  thesereligious  heads to their followers in this constituency  tothe effect that their Dharma required them to wholeheartedlysupport	 respondent No. 1 and to oppose the  candidature  ofthe petitioner and that if any of the followers dared to actagainst their Farmans, the wrath of the aforementioned Guruswould  fall  upon him and he would be the object  of  Divinedispleasure.   These  Farmans of the two Gurus	were  orallyconveyed,  through the 'Subas' of Namdharis, Shri Bir  Singhthe son of Sat Guru Partap Singh and Naginder Singh and ShriPurshotam  Singh followers of Guru Charan Singh,  throughoutthe  Constituency wherever the followers of these two  sectsresided	 from the day of withdrawal till the polling  began,during their canvassing tours for respondent No. 1, Shri BirSingh, Purshotam Singh and Naginder Singh aforesaid and SantTeja752Singh  M.L.C.  in Diwans held in the  various  villages	 andtowns  of  the Constituency during  their  canvassing  tour,besides	 repeating  these 'Farmans' of the  two	 Gurus	alsothreatened  the followers with expulsion from the  sect	 andSamaj  if  they went against the wish of the Gurus  in	thismatter.(ii) That  Sat Guru Pratap Singh himself in the presence  ofrespondent  No. 1 in the Big-Diwan of his followers held  onthe  25th  of February, 1957, at Sirsa in Radha	 Swami	Sat-Sangh Hall, preached and commended all those present that itwas  the  primary Dharma of all his followers  to  help	 thecandidature of respondent No. 1 and to oppose the petitionerwith  all  their  might by giving their	 own  votes  and  bycanvassing   among   their   area  of	influence   in	 theconstituency: -The Sat Guru himself held Diwans at  villagesTharaj on, the 6th of March, 1957, at village Dhiwan on	 the5th March, 1957, at village Rori on the 6th March, 1957, andat  Phaggu  on	the 6th March, 1957.   In  these  Diwans  hebesides repeating his Farmans aforesaid also relied upon thestrong	appeal of his relationship, he being the son of	 thedaughter  of  village  Tharaj.	 A very	 big  diwan  of	 hisfollowers also hold at Khairpur on the 26th February,  1957,for  the same purpose where the Sat Guru  himself  commendedhis followers in the like tune.(iii) That respondent No. 1 got issued posters in thousandsprinted on both the sides in Hindi and Gurumukhi scripts  onthe 26th of February, 1957, containing the orders  'Farmans'of Satguru Partap Singh under the signature of Shri  MaharajBir  Singh son of Satguru Partap Singh.	 These posters	weregot published at the instance of respondent No. 1 at  BansalPress  Hissaria	 Bazar, Sirsa.	These posters  contained  inverbatim  the orders 'Farmans' of the Satguru to the  effectthat  it  was the primary Dharma of every Namdhari  of	thisconstituency  to  give his-own vote as well  as	 to  canvassvotes  of  their  all  acquaintances  for  Shri	 Ram   Dayalcandidate respondent No. 1. A copy of the poster in originaltogether  with its English translation is attached with	 thepetition and may be read as to form its part.  These posterswere distributed753throughout the constituency after the same were got  printedtill  the  polling day in all the  villages  where  Namdharireside."In  support of all his allegations quoted above,  the  firstrespondent adduced a large volume of oral evidence,  besidessome documentary evidence as well.  The Tribunal came to theconclusion  that Maharaj Pratap Singh had issued farmans  tohis satsanghis that he, who will not vote for the appellant,would  suffer not only in this world but in the	 next  also,but it found it not proved that the farmans or orders of thetwo  religious heads of the Namdharis and Radhaswamis,	wereorally	conveyed through Maharaj Bir Singh, son	 of  MaharajPartap	Singh, Naginder Singh and Shri Purshotam  Singh,  tothe followers of the two Gurus in the constituency, or	thatthey,  while conveying the farmans of the Gurus,  threatenedthe  followers	with expulsion from the sect, if  they	wentagainst the wishes of the Gurus, except what Naginder  Singhhad said in the Diwan at Sirsa and at other places.  It alsorecorded  the  finding	that the Diwans were  held  for	 thepurpose of canvassing in favour of the appellant at the timeand  place mentioned in the petition, and that those  Diwanswere  addressed by Maharaj Partap Singh and others.  It	 wasalso found that Maharaj Partap Singh actively supported	 thecandidature of the appellant, and addressed his followers onthe  basis  of	religion  and asked them  to  vote  for	 theappellant, and that all this was done at the instance and inthe  presence of the appellant.	 It was further	 found	thatposters, like exh.  P. 1, were issued by the appellant underthe  authority of Maharaj Bir Singh and his father,  MaharajPartap	 Singh,	 and  widely  distributed   throughout	 theconstituency.	The Tribunal also discussed the question  asto  whether, on those findings, the provisions of s.  123(2)of  the Representation of the People Act, 1951	(which	willhereinafter  be	 referred  to as I the	Act'),	relating  to"undue	influence-", could be said to have  been  satisfied;and  alternatively, whether those findings would  bring	 thecase within the provisions of cl. (3) of s. 123 of the Act,95754relating  to  systematic appeal on grounds of  caste,  race,community  or  religion, etc.  The Tribunal appeared  to  beinclined to the view that a command in terms of exh.  P.  1,emanating  from a religious head, like the Sat Guru, to	 hisfollowers-mostly illiterate and ignorant persons-may well beconstrued as " undue influence".  But alternatively, it alsoheld that even if the provisions of cl. (2) of s. 123 of theAct, had not been satisfied, the case had been brought	wellwithin the purview of el. (3) of s. 123.  Other issues	wereeither not pressed or were decided against the petitioner inthat   court.	 The  Tribunal,	 therefore,   declared	 theappellant's election void under s. 100(1)(b) of the Act.  Inview  of  the  fact  that  the	petitioner  had	 failed	  tosubstantiate many of his allegations, the Tribunal  directedthe parties to bear their own costs.The  appellant	preferred  an appeal which was	heard  by  aDivision  Bench (Falshaw and Dua, JJ.) of the High Court  ofJudicature for the State Of Punjab at Chandigarh.  The	HighCourt  substantially affirmed the findings of  the  ElectionTribunal  on  issue No. 4 aforesaid.  The  High	 Court	alsoaccepted  the  oral  evidence  adduced	on  behalf  of	 therespondent,with particular reference. to the publication andwide  distribution of the poster, exh.	P. 1. In the  courseof its judgment, the High Court observed:" The language of the mandate and the general background andcircumstances	of   this   case   including   the   obviousconsciousness  of Maharaj Pratap Singh and Ram Dial  of	 theprobable   and	likely	effect	of  such  commands  on	 theilliterate, ignorant and credulous followers of the  Maharajcan  lead  but	to one conclusion that it  was	intended  toconvey	to  them.  the	threat	of  divine  displeasure	 andspiritual  censure  if they dared to disobey the  farman  oftheir supreme spiritual and religious head."In  answer  to	the  contention that  the  farman  had	beenmotivated not by religious considerations but by a  personalgrievance,  the High Court did not attach any importance  tothe  alleged difference in the motive, and observed: If	 theinfluence exercised by the religious and755spiritual  head has the effect of creating in the  minds  ofthe  voters  a feeling of divine  displeasure  or  spiritualcensure then whatever the motive, the influence would amountto  undue influence.  The contents of the poster  reproducedearlier unequivocally establish the mandatory nature of	 thecommand.   Religious sanction is, in my opinion, implict  init  and	 I  think,  on	a  reasonable  construction  of	 itscontents, it must be held that Maharaj Pratap Singh intendedto  convey  to	his followers  who  are	 mostly	 illiterate,ignorant,  credulous and unsophisticated  villagers,  havingblind  and  implicit faith in their religious head  that  ifthey did not vote for Ram Dial, they would incur divine dis-pleasure   and	spiritual  censure.   With  this  class	  ofvillagers  the displeasure of the religious head is  usuallyassociated with divine displeasure."Dealing	 with  the  scope of s. 123(2),	 it  held  that	 thelanguage  of the poster, exh.  P. 1, construed in the  lightof  the	 oral  evidence, left the Court	 in  no	 doubt	thatMaharaj	 Partap Singh's farman did necessarily imply  divinedispleasure  and  spiritual censure for those who  chose  todisobey the farman. - In its view, therefore, the facts,  asfound, attracted the provisions of s. 123(2) of the Act.  Italso  held  that the evidence led in the  case,	 establishedthat  the  meetings addressed by Maharaj  Partap  Singh	 andothers, in support of the election of the appellant, inducedthe belief that the voters would incur divine displeasure orspiritual  censure if they did not vote in  accordance	withthe mandate issued by the Maharaj, thus, clearly  establish-ing the commission of corrupt practice of " undue  influence".  The	 High Court also examined the question	whether	 thecorrupt practice falling under cl. (3) of s. 123 of the Act,had  been  established,	 and decided  the  question  in	 thenegative,  though not without some hesitation.	 It  furtherheld that the publication of the poster, exh.  P. 2, did notbring  the case within the purview of s. 123(4) of the	Act.In the result, the High Court agreed with the conclusion  ofthe Tribunal, declaring the election void, and dismissed theappeal with costs.  The appellant applied to the High Court,praying for the necessary certificate that the756case was a fit one for appeal to this Court, and that  Courtgranted the certificate.  Hence, this appeal.After  the decision of the Tribunal and of the	High  Court,the  only  question  for determination in  this	 appeal,  iswhether, on the findings of fact recorded, as stated  above,the  corrupt practice of " undue influence ", as defined  ins. 123(2), has been made out.  It has been argued on  behalfof the appellant that the main cl. (2) of s. 123, is out  ofthe way of the parties in this case, because it applies onlyto threats of injury to person, or property and not to	whatmay  be	 termed	 " spiritual undue  influence  ",  which  isspecifically  covered by sub-el. (ii) of proviso (a) to	 cl.(2) of s. 123.	It was further argued that the word " deemed"  would show that the proviso is by way of an	addition  tothe  main  provision of el. (2) of s. 123; that is  to	say,what was not actually covered by the main cl. (2), has	beenadded to the ambit of the definition by the proviso.  It hasfurther been argued that el. (2) is directed against  undulyinfluencing individual voters, and reliance was placed	uponthe cases of Cheltenham(1), Nottingham (2)   and       NorthDurham Reference was also made to the observations in Rogerson Elections " (4), and it was argued that anelectoralright, as defined in s.	 79(d)	of  the Act, is	 a  personalindividual right, including the right to vote or to  refrainfrom  voting at an election.  Hence, there should have	beenpleading  by  the  petitioner and finding by  the  Court  onevidence  that certain named individuals had been  subjectedto  the corrupt practice of undue influence.   Secondly,  inthe  absence  of  any such pleading or	finding,  a  generalallegation  of	the  corrupt practice  of  undue  influence,without	 reference to individuals, is not enough in  law  tovitiate an election. The corrupt practice of undue influence has been defined inel. (2) of s. 123 of the Act, in these terms :-"  (2)	Undue  influence,  that is to  say,  any  direct  orindirect interference or attempt to interfere on the part ofthe candidate or his agent, or of any other(1)  (1869) 1 O'M. & H. 62, 64.(2)  (1869) 1 O'M. & H. 245, 246,(3)  (1874) 2 O'M. & H. 152, 156.(4)  Vol., II 20th Ed., P. 329.757person,	 with  the consent of a candidate  or  his  electionagent, with the free exercise of any electoral right:Provided that-(a)without  prejudice to the generality of the	provisionsof  this  clause any such person as is referred	 to  thereinwho-(i)threatens any candidate, or any elector, or any  personin whom a candidate or an elector is interested, with injuryof  any kind including social ostracism and  excommunicationor expulsion from any caste or community ; or(ii)induces or attempts to induce a candidate or an electorto believe that he, or any person in whom he is	 interested,will  become  or  will	be  rendered  an  object  of  divinedispleasure or spiritual censure,shall  be deemed to interfere with the free exercise of	 theelectoral right of such candidate or elector withinthe meaning of this clause;(b)a declaration of public policy, or a promise of  publicaction, or the mere exercise of a legal right without intentto interfere with an electoral right, shall not be deemed tobe interference within the meaning of this clauseIt  should  be	observed, at the outset,  that	the  law  inEngland,  relating to undue influence at elections,  is	 notthe  same  as  the law in India, as  will  appear  from	 thefollowing definition of " undue influence " contained in  s.2 of 46 & 47 Vict. c. 51, which substantially re-enacted theformer s. 5 of 17 & 18 Viet. c. 102:-" Every person who shall directly or indirectly, by  himselfor  by	any  other person on his behalf,.  make	 use  of  orthreaten  to make use of any force, violence, or  restraint,or  inflict  or threaten to inflict, by himself	 or  by	 anyother  person,	any temporal or	 spiritual  injury,  damage,harm, or loss upon or against any person in order to  induceor compel such person to vote or refrain from voting, or  onaccount of such person having voted or refrained from votingat  any election, or who shall by abduction, duress, or	 anyfraudulent device or contrivance, impede or prevent the freeexercise of the- franchise of any elector, or shall  therebycompel, induce, or prevail upon any758elector either to give or to refrain from giving his vote atany election, shall be guilty of undue influence".The words of the English statute, quoted above, lay emphasisupon  the  individual  aspect  of  the	exercise  of   undueinfluence.   It	 was  with reference to the  words  of	thatstatute, that Bramwell, B., made the following	observationsin North Durham (1):-" When the language of the Act is examined it will be  foundthat   intimidation  to	 be  within  the  statute  must	  beintimidation practised upon an individual ". The Indian law,on the other hand, does not emphasise the individual  aspectof  the exercise of such influence, but pays regard  to	 theuse of such influence as has the tendency to bring about theresult	contemplated in the clause.  What is material  underthe  Indian law, is not the actual effect produced, but	 thedoing  of such acts as are calculated to interfere with	 thefree  exercise	of any electoral right.	  Decisions  of	 theEnglish	 Courts, based on the words of the English  statute,which are not strictly in pari materia with the words of theIndian statute, cannot, therefore, be used as precedents  inthis country.In  the present case, we are not concerned with the.  threatof temporal injury, damage or harm.  On the pleadings and onthe  findings of the Tribunal and of the High Court, we	 areconcerned  with	 the undue exercise of	spiritual  influencewhich  has been found by the High Court to have been such  apotent	influence  as to induce in the electors	 the  beliefthat they will be rendered objects of divine displeasure  orspiritual  censure if they did not carry out the command  oftheir  spiritual  head.	 It was argued that exh.  P.  1,  onwhich  so  much stress was laid by the Tribunal and  by	 theHigh Court, did not contain any such direct threat as  wouldbring the case within the second paragraph of proviso (a) tos.  123(2).  Exhibit P. 1, as officially translated,  is  inthese terms:-"  A  command  from  Shri Sat  Guru  Sacha  Padshah  to	 theNamdharies of Halqa-Sirsa" Every Namdhari of this Halqa is commanded by Shri Sat Guruthat he should make every effort for(1)  (1874) 2 O'M. & H. 152,156.759the  success  of Shri Ram Dayal Vaid, a	 candidate  for	 thePunjab Vidhan Sabha, by giving his own vote and those of hisfriends and acquaintances, it being our primary duty to makehim successful in the election. The election symbol of	ShriVaid is a riding horseman.Sd. Maharaj Bir SinghS/o Sat Guru Maharaj Partap Singh,Jivan Nagar (Hissar) ".We have looked into the original document also, and we agreewith  the High Court that the crucial words, like  hukam  ofShri Sat Guru Sacha Padshah, etc., have been printed in verybold letters, conveying the distinct impression to the largenumber	of  Namdharis, who are voters in  the  constituency,that it was a mandate from their spiritual guru who  wieldedgreat  local  influence	 amongst them,	that  it  was  theirbounden	 duty,	under the strict orders of  their  religiousleader,	 not only to cast- their own votes in favour of	 theparticular  candidate,	but also to  exert  their  influenceamongst	 their friends and acquaintances in favour  of	thatcandidate;  and	 that any infringement of that	mandate	 hadimplicit in it divine displeasure or spiritual censure.It was contended on behalf of the appellant that a religiousleader	has  as much the right to freedom of speech  as	 anyother  citizen,	 and  that, therefore,	his  exhortation  infavour of a particular candidate should not have the  resultof vitiating the election.  There cannot be the least  doubtthat a religious leader has the right freely to express	 hisopinion	  on  the  comparative	merits	of  the	  contestingcandidate  and to canvass for such of them as  he  considersworthy	of the confidence of the electors.  In other  words,the  religious leader has a right to exercise his  influencein favour of any particular candidate by voting for him	 andby  canvassing votes of others for him.	 He has a  right  toexpress	 his  opinion  on  the	individual  merits  of	 thecandidates.  Such a course of conduct on his part, will onlybe a use of his great influence amongst a particular sectionof the voters in the constituency ; but it will amount to anabuse of his great influence if760the words he uses in a document, or utters in his  speeches,leave  no  choice to the persons addressed by  him,  in	 theexercise  of their electoral rights.  If the religious	headhad  said  that	 he preferred the  appellant  to  the  othercandidate,  because, in his opinion, he was more  worthy  ofthe confidence of the electors for certain reasons good, bador  indifferent,  and  addressed words	to  that  effect  topersons	 who  were amenable to his influence,  he  would  bewithin his 'rights, and his influence, however great,  couldnot be said to have been misused.  But in the instant  case,as it appears, according to the findings of the High  Court,in  agreement with the Tribunal, that the  religious  leaderpractically  left no free choice to the	 Namdhari  electors,not  only  by issuing the hukam or farman, as  contained  inexh.   P. 1, quoted above, but also by his speeches, to	 theeffect that they must vote for the appellant, implying	thatdisobedience  of his mandate would carry divine	 displeasureor spiritual censure, the case is clearly brought within thepurview of the second paragraph of the proviso to s.  123(2)of the Act.  This aspect of the case has been dealt with  atlength by the High Court in a well-considered judgment,	 andwe  do	not think it necessary to repeat  all  those  obser-vations,  beyond  saying that we agree with them.   In	thatview  of the matter, it is not necessary for us to  considerthe  further  question whether el. 2 of s. 123 of  the	Act,apart from the proviso-para. (ii), discussed above-covers  acase,  like the present, where the undue influence is  of  aspiritual character as distinguished from threats of  injuryto person or property.	As the -main ground urged in supportof the appeal against the judgment of the High Court, fails,the  appeal must be dismissed with costs to  the  respondentNo. 1.Appeal dismissed.761