PETITIONER:KOCHU GOVINDAN KAIMAL & OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THAYANKOOT THEKKOT LAKSHMI AMMA AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:01/10/1958BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1959 AIR   71		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1)	1ACT:       Will- jointly executed by three testators-Construction-joint       tenants	or tenants in common-Claim of entire properties	 by       survivor -Maintainability.HEADNOTE:A  will executed jointly :by three persons contained,  interalia,  the following recitals:-" We have hereby settled	 andagreed	that  all  the moveable	 and  immoveable  propertiesacquired  jointly and separately by us till now,  and  thosewhich we may be so acquiring in future and those which	havedevolved  on  us and those which we may	 yet  be  obtaining,shall be held by us in our possession and under our  controland  dealt  with by us as we please till our  death."  Therewere  bequests	in favour of certain persons  and  the	willprovided  that in the event of the executants effecting	 anytransfers  or  alienations of the said	properties,  either,jointly or severally till their death, the aforesaid personsshall have the right only in respect of the remaining  itemsof  the	 properties.  Two of the testators having  died	 thethird claimed that he had become entitled by surviorship  toall  the  properties  disposed of by  the  document  on	 thefooting	 that  it  was in effect a  transfer  of  all  theirindividual   properties	 to  themselves	 jointly  as   jointtenants.Held,  that the document was a testamentary  disposition  bythe  three  testators of their properties operating  on	 thedeath of each testator on his properties, and was, in effectthree  wills combined in one.  The properties were  held  bythe   testators	 at,  tenants-in-common	 and  the   legateesmentioned   in	the  will  would  become  entitled  to	 theproperties of the testator who dies.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 5 and 6  of1955.Appeals	 from  the judgment and decree dated  September	 15,1952,  of the Madras High Court in Second Appeals Nos.	2256of 1947and 2545 of 1948,2arising. out of the judgment and decree dated September	 19,1946,  of  the Court of Subordinate Judge  of  Kozhikode  inAppeal	Suit Nos. 336 and 180 of 1946, against the  judgmentand  decree  dated  October  9, 1945,  and  June  29,  1946,respectively of the Court of Districts Munsif, Chowghat,  inO. S. Nos. 131 and 158 of 1945.B.   K. B. Naidu, for the appellants.V.   Karunakara	 Menon	and M. R. Krishna  Pillai,  for	 therespondents.1958.  October 1. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byVENKATARAMA  AIYAR J.-The point for determination  in  thesetwo  appeals  is whether one Kesavan Kaimal who was  one  ofthree  executants of a will dated February 10, 1906,  becameentitled  under that will to the properties, which  are	 thesubject-matter of these appeals.The  will is a short one, and is as follows:  " Will executed on 28th Makaram 1081 M. E.,  correspondingto  10th  February, 1906, jointly by Kunhan Kaimal,  son  ofKarayamvattath Katbayakkal Kunhu Kutti Amma, Kesavan Kaimal,son  of Theyi Amma and Theyi Amma, daughter of Nani Amma  ofEtathiruthi amsom and Etamuttan desom in Ponnani Taluk.	  Wehave  hereby  settled and agreed that all  the	movable	 andimmovable  properties acquired jointly and separately by  ustill  now, and those which we may be so acquiring in  futureand  those which have devolved on us and those which we	 mayyet  be obtaining shall be held by us in our possession	 andunder our control and dealt with by us as we please till ourdeath  and  that subsequent to our  death,  Kalliani  Amma'schildren,  Kali	 and  Kunhu Kutty,  Thona  Amma's  children,Parukutty,  Kunhunni,  Kochu  Govindan and  Ramar,  and	 thechildren of the deceased Narayani Amma, namely,	 Kunhunniri,Kuttiparu  and	Lakshmikutty  and  their  children  and	 thechildren  who may be born to them as also the  children	 whomay  be	 born  of  them,  shall	 as  our  heirs	 and   legalrepresentatives, hold the said properties in their3possession  and	 enjoy	them hereditarily  in  equal  sharesamongst themselves.2.   Except after our death, the aforesaid persons shall notlay claim to any of the properties belonging to us.3.   It	 is settled that in the event of our  effecting	 anytransfers  or  alienations of the  said	 properties.  eitherjointly or severally till our death, the aforesaid'  personsshall  have  the right and freedom only in  respect  of	 theremaining  items  of properties to the	exclusion  of  thoseitems of properties included in the above transactions.4.   It is hereby further settled and agreed that subsequentto  our death, save our legal representatives aforesaid	 andsuch  of  those as may be born hereafter, no  other  personsshall have the right to claim to or right of entry upon	 theentire properties moveable and immoveable found belonging tous.And we have signed herein in the presence of the undersignedwitnesses-(signed) Kunhan Kaimal.( " " ) Kesavan Kaimal.(" " ) Theyi Amma."of the three testators, Theyi Amma died first-the exact dateof  her death does not appear and is not  very	material-andKunhan	Kaimal died thereafter sometime in 1930.  It is	 thecase  of  Kesavan  Kaimal  that	 in  the  events  which	 hadhappened, he had become entitled by survivorship to all	 theproperties  disposed  of  by the will,	including  those  ofKunhan	Kaimal, and on this footing he conveyed	 on  October14,1938, seven items of properties, of which three  belongedto Kunhan Kaimal, to one Sankarankutti Kaimal and on October16,  1944, another three items of properties which  belongedto  Kunhan Kaimal, to Kalyani and Vijayan.  These  transfersled  to	 the two litigations; which have culminated  in	 thepresent appeals. The  legatees	under  the will	 dated	February  10,  1906,instituted  O.	S.  No.	 131 of 1945 in	 the  Court  of	 theDistrict  Munsif, Chowghat, then in the Province of  Madras,for  recovery  of possession of three  items  of  propertieswhich had belonged to Kunhan Kaimal4after  redeeming a mortgage for Rs. 100 created	 over  thoseproperties on February 3, 1901.	 The plaintiffs claimed thaton  the	 death	of Kunhan Kaimal in  1930  they	 had  becomeentitled  to  those properties as legatees under  the  will.Defendants  1 to 3 represented the mortgagees.	Defendant  6was  Kesavan Kaimal, and defendants 4 and 5 were brought  onrecord	as  persons  claiming to be  entitled  to  the	suitproperties  under a deed of transfer by defendant  6,  datedOctober 16, 1944.  Defendants 4 to 6 contested the suit, andpleaded	 that  on  a proper construction of  the  will,	 theproperties  of Kunhan Kaimal survived to Kesavan  Kaimal  onthe death of the former in 1930, and that the plaintiffs gotno  title  to them.  This contention was  overruled  by	 theDistrict  Munsif, and the suit was decreed.  There were	 twoappeals against this decree, A. S. No. 179 of 1946 and A. S.No.  180  of  1946 in the Court of  the	 Subordinate  Judge,Calicut, the former by defendants 4 and 5 and the latter, bydefendant   6.	The  Subordinate  Judge	 agreed	  with	 theconstruction  put  on the will by the District	Munsif,	 anddismissed  the	appeals.  Against that decree,	defendant  6preferred  S.  A.  No. 2256 of 1947 in	the  High  Court  ofMadras.Basing	himself	 on the deed of transfer dated	October	 14,1938, Sankarankutti Kaimal instituted O. S. No. 158 of	1945in the Court of the District Munsif, Chowghat, for  recoveryof  possession	of three items of properties, of  which	 onebelonged  to Kunhan Kaimal absolutely and the other two'  tohim and others as co-owners.  In the plaint, he alleged thatthere  was  an	oral lease of the properties  to  the  firstdefendant and to one Kali Amma, whose legal  representativeswere defendants 2 and 3, that the defendants were in arrearsin the payment of rent, and were disputing his title to	 theproperties,  and  that he was therefore	 entitled  to  ejectthem.	Defendant  4 is Kesavan Kaimal, the  vendor  of	 theplaintiff.   The contesting defendants who were the same  asthe  plaintiffs in O.S. No. 131 of 1945 pleaded	 that  underthe  will  they	 became entitled to all	 the  properties  ofKunhan Faimal, that the oral lease was untrue, and that the5suit  was barred by limitation.	 The District  Munsif  foundall  the  contentions  in favour of defendants 1  to  3	 anddismissed  the	suit.,	Against this decree,  there  was  anappeal,	 A.  S.	 No.  336  of 1946,  in	 the  Court  of	 theSubordinate Judge of Ottapalam, and that was dismissed,	 theSubordinate  Judge agreeing with the District Munsif on	 allthe issues.  Against his decree, the plaintiff preferred  S.A.  No. 2545 of 1948 in the High Court of Madras.  Both	 thesecond appeals came up for hearing before Raghava Rao J. whoheld  that  on its true construction the  will	operated  tovest,  in the three testators all the properties covered  byit  in joint ownership, that, in consequence, on  the  deathsuccessively of Theyi Amma and Kunhan Kaimal, their interestsurvived  to Kesavan Kaimal, and that the transfers made  byhim  on October 14, 1938, and October 16, 1944, were  valid.In  the	 result, both the second appeals were  allowed,	 thesuit  for redemption, O. S. No 131 of 1945,  was  dismissed,and  the  suit	in ejectment, O. S. No.	 158  of  1945,	 wasdecreed.   Against this judgment, the present  appeals	havebeen  brought on a certificate granted by this	court  underArt. 136.The sole point for determination in these appeals is whetherunder  the will all the three testators became joint  ownersof  all the properties on which it operated.  After  hearingthe  question fully argued, we have come to  the  conclusionthat  that  is	not the effect of the  will,  and  that	 thejudgment  of  the  High Court contra  cannot  be  supported.There  were  three  executants of the will.   Each  of	thempossessed   properties,	  which	 were  his  or	 her   self-acquisitions.	They- also owned some properties which	theyhad jointly acquired, but their title to such properties wasas tenants-in-common and not as joint tenants.	Each of themwould  have  been entitled to execute a will of his  or	 herproperties,  and if that had been done, the  legatees  namedtherein	 would undoubtedly have been entitled to those	pro-perties.   In  the  present  case,  the	 legatees  who	wereintended to take were the same persons, and it was for	thatreason that the three testators instead of each executing  aseparate will jointly executed it.  It ist6nevertheless,  a  will	by which  each	testator  bequeathedproperties belonging to him or to her, and therefore on	 thedeath  of each testator, the legatees mentioned in the	willwould  be  entitled to the properties of the  testator,	 whodies.The  contention	 of the respondents which has  found  favourwith the High Court is that the will must be construed as  atransfer  by the several testators of all  their  individualproperties  to	themselves jointly as joint  tenants.	Thatwould really be a transfer inter Vivos and not a will.	 Theword  "will"  is widely known and used, and it has  a  well-understood significance as meaning a disposition which is totake effect on the death of a person.  The executants of thewill  could  not  have therefore  intended  that  it  shouldoperate inter ViVOs.  Moreover, if the document was intendedto  take effect as a present disposition, it should have  tobe  stamped under the provisions of the Stamp Act,  but	 thewill is an unstamped document.Coming	to the recitals in the will, there are no  words  bywhich  the  executants thereof divest  themselves  of  theirindividual ownership and vest it in themselves jointly.	  Itis said that that could be implied from the words " all	 themovable	 and  immovable	 properties  acquired  jointly	 andseparately  by	us till now, and those which we	 may  be  soacquiring in future and those which have devolved on us	 andthose  which we may yet be obtaining shall be held by us  inour  possession	 and under our control ". We are  unable  toread  any such implication in those words.  It is  difficultto  imagine-how	 properties  which were to  be	acquired  infuture	could  form the subject-matter of a  disposition  inpraesenti.   On	 the other band, the true  purpose  of	thisclause	would seem to be to emphasise that the execution  ofthe  will does not affect the rights of the  testators	overtheir  properties,  and that is an indication the it  is  tooperate as a will.  The matter appears to us to be concludedbeyond	all doubt by the terms of clause 3,  which  providesthat the testators could alienate the properties jointly  orseverally.  If the properties were intended to be  impressedwith the character of joint property, an alienation by any7one  of them singly would be incompetent.  In coming to	 theconclusion  to which he did, the learned Judge in the  Courtbelow was very largely influenced by the fact that the	willdealt  with,  not  only	 the  separate	properties  of	 thetestators but also of their joint properties, and that therewas  one  disposition  as regards all  of  them.   But	thisreasoning is based on a misconception of the recitals in thewill.	The will does not refer to any joint  properties  ofthe  testators but to properties jointly acquired  by  them-which  is very different.  They would hold these  propertiesas tenants-in-common, and their share therein would  devolveas their separate properties.It was further argued for the respondents that it could	 nothave been the intention of Theyi Amma, one of the testators,to benefit the legatees under the will in preference to	 herown  son,  Kesavan Kaimal, and that, therefore, it  must  beheld that she intended that her son who was the youngest  ofthe  testators	should	take all  the  properties.   But  ifKesavan	  Kaimal  could	 himself  agree	 to   bequeath	 hisproperties  to those legatees, we see nothing  unnatural  inhis mother also agreeing to bequeath her properties to them-they being the heirs of the testators under the	 Marumakkat-tayam  Law.  Learned counsel for the respondents  sought  torely  on  the subsequent conduct of the parties	 as  showingthat  they understood the will as conferring a joint  estateon  the testators.  It was said that it was in	that  beliefthat  Kesavan Kaimal was dealing with the properties of	 theother testators as his own, after their death.	It was	alsosaid  that the conduct of the other members of	the  tarwad,including  the	plaintiffs,  showed that  they	shared	thatbelief.	 And this was sought to be made out by reference  tothe proceedings in E. A. No. 320 of 1938 in S. C. No. 480 of1933.	The facts were that one Kunhunni Kaimal	 obtained  adecree against Kesavan Kaimal in S. C. No. 480 of 1933,	 andin  execution of that decree, he brought some of the  tarwadproperties  to	sale, purchased them himself  and  got	intopossession.   The  members  of	the  tarwad  then  filed  anapplication, E. A. No. 320 of 1938, under 0. 21, r. 100, forredelivery of the8properties  to	them on the ground that the decree  and	 thesale  proceedings  were not binding on them,  and  that	 wasdismissed.   In	 the order dismissing the  application,	 theDistrict Munsif observed that under the will dated  February10,  1906,  Kesavan  Kaimal had the power  to  transfer	 theproperties.   This order was relied on in these	 proceedingsas  operating as res judicata in favour of the	respondents;but  that contention was negatived by the Courts below,	 andhas not been repeated before us.  But these proceedings	 arenow  sought to be relied on as showing that the	 members  ofthe  tarwad did not dispute the title of Kesavan  Kaimal  tothe properties which were dealt with by the will.As  against this, the appellant referred us to	a  partitiondeed dated May 16, 1915, and a mortgage deed dated March  4,1926, to both of which Kesavan Kaimal was a party, in  whichbe  and other members of the family had understood the	willin   question  as  meaning  that  the  testators  held	 theproperties  covered by the will in separate'  and  exclusiveownership.   Whatever  value one might attach to  the  aboveconsiderations	if there was any doubt or uncertainty as  tothe  meaning  of  the will, when once it is  held  that	 thelanguage  thereof is clear and unambiguous, evidence of	 thesubsequent conduct of the parties cannot be admitted for thepurpose	 of  limiting or controlling its  meaning.   In	 ourview,  the terms of the will are clear, and  the  subsequentconduct	 of  the  parties sought to be	relied	on  must  bedisregarded  as wholly inadmissible.  We are accordingly  ofopinion	 that the will dated February 10, 1906, is  what  itpurports to be a will, and nothing else.  It does not conferany  rights  inter se on the testators; it  only  vests	 thetitle to the properties disposed of by it in the legatees onthe death of the testators.  In this view, the will must  beheld to be a testamentary disposition by the three testatorsof their properties operating on the death of each  testatoron  his properties, and is, in effect, three wills  combinedin one.A  joint  will, though unusual, is not unknown to  law.	  InHalsbury's Laws of England, Hailsham's Edition, Vol. 34,  p.17, para. 12, the law is thus stated:9 "  A  joint will is a will made by two	 or  more  testatorscontained  in  a  single document,  duly  executed  by	eachtestator, disposing either of their separate properties,  orof their joint property.  It is not, however, recognised  inEnglish	 law as a single will.	It operates on the death  ofeach  testator	as his will disposing of  his  own  separateproperty,  and is in effect two or more wills ". There is  asimilar statement of the law in Jarman on Wills, 8th Ed., p.41.  The following observations of Farewell J. in Duddell inre.  Roundway V.    Roundway (1) are apposite:"....  in  my judgment it is plain on the  authorities	thatthere  may be a joint will in the sense that if	 two  peoplemake a bargain to make a joint will, effect may be given  tothat  document.	  On  the death of the first  of  those	 twopersons the will is admitted to probate as a disposition  ofthe property that be possesses.	 On the death of the  secondperson, assuming that no fresh will has been made, the	willis  admitted  to probate as the disposition  of	 the  secondperson's property..........It  was also argued for the respondents that the will  mightbe construed as a mutual will, but that, in our opinion,  isan  impossible	contention to urge on the  recitals  of	 thedocument.   A will is mutual when two testators confer	uponeach  other  reciprocal	 benefits,  as	by  either  of	themconstituting the other his legatee; that is to say, when theexecutants  fill  the  roles of both  testator	and  legateetowards	 each  other.  But where the legatees  are  distinctfrom  the  testators, there can be no question of  a  mutualwill.	It  cannot be argued that there is, in	the  presentcase,  a bequest by the testators to themselves.   There  isnothing	 in  the will to support such  a  contention,  whichwould be inconsistent with the position taken by the respon-dents  that there was a settlement of the  properties  intervivos converting separate properties into joint	 properties.In  this view, on the death of Kunhan Kaimal his  propertiesvested	in  the legatees under the will dated  February	 10,1906,	and  therefore	neither	 Kesavan  Kaimal   nor	 histransferees under the deeds could lay any claim to them.(1)  [1932] 1 Ch. 585, 592.210In  the result, the appeals are allowed, the decrees  passedby  the	 High Court are set aside, and those of	 the  Courtsbelow are restored, with costs throughout.				      Appeals allowed.