PETITIONER:M/S.  SARUPCHAND HUKAMCHAND & CO.	Vs.RESPONDENT:UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:05/05/1959BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1207		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 986ACT:lncome-tax--Assessment	of  unregistered  firm	treated	  asregistered  by Income-tax Officer-Appeal against  orders  ofassessment--Finding of Profit reversed and fresh  assessmentdirected-Effect--Duty  of Income-tax Officer-Indian  income-tax  Act,  1922	 (XI of 1922), SS.  23(5)(b),  24(2)(d)	 and31(4).HEADNOTE:The Income-tax Officer found that the assessee, an  unregis-tered  firm, had made a profit in the assessment year  1940-41.   He treated it as registered under S. 23(5)(b)  of	 theAct,  assessed the partners and carried the profit to  theirindividual  returns, making no demand on the firm.  For	 thenext two assessment years, however, the firm was assessed asunregistered firm.  For all the three assessment years,	 theIncome-tax  Officer  treated  the firm	as  "  resident	 andordinarily  resident ". The firm appealed against all  theseassessments.   The appeals were all consolidated  and  heardtogether by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.  He  foundthat  the firm was non-resident, the computation  of  incomemade  by the Income-tax Officer was erroneous, that  in	 theassessment  year  1940-41 there was a loss  and	 during	 thesubsequent years the firm had made profits.  He,  therefore,directed  the Income-tax Officer to modify  the	 assessmentsaccordingly.   Thereupon the Income-tax Officer gave  reliefto  the partners for the year 1940-41 and  directed  certainrefunds to be made to them.  The firm was not satisfied	 andmoved	both  the  Income-tax  Officer	and  the   AppellateAssistant Commissioner987found  to  have incurred a loss in the first  of  the  threeassessment years, it could not for that year be treated as aregistered  firm and was entitled to carry forward the	lossto the subsequent years.  They declined to interfere on	 theground that the direction of the Income-tax Officer under S.23(5)(b),  not	being appealable, had become final  and	 thetime  within  which  the original order	 of  the  Income-taxOfficer could be rectified had also run out.  The firm	wentup to the Commissioner and the Central Board of Revenue, butto no effect.  Thereafter it moved the High Court under Art.226  of	 the Constitution.  The single Judge who  heard	 thematter declined to interfere.  The Division Bench on  appealagreed	with  the single judge.	 The firm appealed  to	thisCourt.	 The  question for decision was	 whether  after	 thefinding	 of profit made by the Income-tax Officer  had	beenturned	 to   one  of  loss  by	 the   Appellate   AssistantCommissioner on appeal, the original decision of the Income-tax  Officer to treat the firm as a registered one under  s.23(5)(b) could remain intact.Held,  that since the Income-tax Officer could treat an	 un-registered firm as a registered one under S. 23(5)(b) of theIndian	Income-tax  Act	 only if there	was  a	profit,	 thereversal  of  the  finding  of profit made  by	him  by	 theAppellate  Assistant  Commissioner must	 automatically	takeaway the jurisdiction of the Income-tax Officer to act underthat  section  and  his	 order	made  thereunder  must	fallthrough.It  made  no  difference in the instant	 case,	whether	 theAppellate  Assistant Commissioner's order was one under	 cl.(a)  Of s. 31(3) or under cl. (b) of that section,  for	 theeffect of the order in law in either case would be the same,namely,	 the  annulment of the assessment resulting  in	 therestoration of the case back to its original position.It  was not correct to suggest that under proviso (d) to  s.24(2) Of the Act the losses of an unregistered firm could becarried	 to  the  partners'  account  as  if  the  firm	 wasregistered.   That  proviso was not intended to	 enable	 theIncome-tax  Officer to forego the obligation laid on him  bycl.  (b) Of S. 23(5), i.e., to find out the interest of	 theRevenue,  and thus to render the words 'during any  year  inproviso	 redundant.   The  effect of the  provisions  of  S.23(5)(b) and the proviso (d) to S. 24(2), which must be readtogether, was that the proviso was to be invoked subject  tothe conditions under S. 23(5)(b) to obtain more revenue	 forthe State by applying S. 23(5)(a).Although the Appellate Assistant Commissioner could not haveinterfered  with  the order made by the	 Income-tax  Officerunder  S.  23(5)(b)  of the Act in an  appeal  against	thatorder,	the position must be different when  the  assessmentitself was subject to appeal under s. 31 Of the Act, and theAppellate  Assistant Commissioner under s. 31(4)  authorisedthe Income-tax Officer to modify the assessment in the lightof  his direction.  It would, therefore, be the duty of	 theIncome-tax Officer to consider de988novo whether in the altered circumstances the provisions ofS.   23(5)(b) of the Act could at all be applied.Commissioner of Income-tax v. Tribune Trust, Lahore,  [1948]16 I.T.R. 214, Commissioner of Income-tax v. McMillan & Co.,[1958]	33  I.T.R.  182 and Commissioner  of  Income-tax  v.Amritlal Bhogilal & CO., [1958] 34 I.T.R. 130, considered.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 172 of 1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedFebruary  26, 1953, of the Bombay High Court in	 Appeal	 No.108  of 1952, arising out' of the Judgment and	order  datedJuly  8,  1952,	 of  the said High  Court  in  its  OrdinaryOriginal and Civil Jurisdiction in Misc.  No. 48 of 1952.R.   J. Kolah, J. B. Dadachanji, S. N. Andley and  RameshwarNath, for the appellant.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India,K.   N.Rajagopal Sastri and D. Gupta, for the respondents.1959.  May 5. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byHIDAYATULLAH,  J.-This	appeal,	 by special  leave  of	thisCourt,	is  directed against the judgment and order  of	 theHigh Court of Judicature at Bombay dated February 26,  1953,in Appeal No. 108 of 1952.  By that judgment, the DivisionalBench (Chagla, C. J. and Shah, J.) declined to interfere, inLetters	 Patent Appeal, with the judgment of Tendolkar,	 J.,dated  July 8, 1952, in Miscellaneous Application No. 48  of1952.	In  the petition which was originally filed  in	 theHigh  Court  under Art. 226 of the Constitution, a  writ  ofmandamus  was  asked  against the Union	 of  India  and	 twoIncome-tax  Officers  to compel them to give effect  to	 theappellate  order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner  ofI.  T.	F. Range, Bombay, dated April 29,  1949.   The	HighCourt in both the judgments declined the writ.The facts of the case are as follows: The appellant, Messrs.Sarupchand arid Hukamehand and Co., (hereinafter referred toas the assessee firm) was carrying on business, inter  alia,as shroffs, merchants and989commission  agents at Bombay, Indore, Ujjain  and  Calcutta.It  had,  in the relevant account years, two  partners,	 SirSarupchand  Hukamchand and Sri Hiralal Kalyanmal.   The	 twopartners  were	also separately liable	to  income-tax,	 theformer	as  a Hindu undivided family and the  latter  as  anindividual.  We are concerned here with the assessment years1940-41,  194142  and  1942-43.	  These	 correspond  to	 theaccount	 years,	 1995-1996 (Samvat) to	1997-1998  (Samvat).When  the  assessment  of the assessee firm  was  made,	 theIncome-tax Officer, Section VIII (Central), Bombay,  treatedthe  firm as " resident and ordinarily resident ".  For	 theassessment  year  1940-41  the Income-tax  Officer  found  aprofit of Rs. 80,358, and applying s. 23(5)(b) of the IndianIncome-tax  Act (hereafter called the Act), he proceeded  totreat the firm which was unregistered as registered for	 thepurpose	 of  assessment.  On March 15,	1945,  he  thereforeassessed  the  two partners carrying the profit	 into  theirindividual  returns  and made no demand upon the  firm.	  Itappears	 that  an application for registration	had  alreadybeen  filed  under s. 26A of the Act before  the  Income-taxOfficer, but it was rejected-and quite correctly-because  noinstrument  of	partnership was disclosed.  That  order	 wasalso passed on the same date.For the assessment years 1941-42 and 1942-43, the Income-taxOfficer	 by his orders dated July 31, 1945, and October	 31,1945,  respectively,  treated  the firm as  "  resident	 andordinarily resident " and as an unregistered firm.  For	 thefirst of the two assessment years, he assessed the firm on atotal  income of Rs. 2,30,798 to income-tax  and  super-tax,and for the second year, its British Indian income was takenat Rs. 2,62,827 and the total income at Rs. 7,00,116 and wasalso treated accordingly.The  assessee firm appealed against these assessments.	 TheAppellate Assistant Commissioner by his order passed in	 theconsolidated  appeals  on  April 29,  1949,  held  that	 theassessee  firm was non-resident and excluded the  income  ofthe  firm outside British India, though it was	included  inthe total word income for the purpose of computing the	rateof tax.990He also found error in the computation of income made by theIncome-tax  Officer, and held that in  the  assessment	year1940-41 there was a loss of Rs. 1,61,084 in the total  worldincome of the assessee firm.  For the subsequent years	alsothere  were slight variations in the amounts  determined  bythe  Income-tax Officer, but it was held that  the  assesseefirm had made profits in those years.  The following is	 thesummary	  of  the  findings  of	 the   Appellate   AssistantCommissioner, as given by him in his order:Assess-	  Income in   Income	    Totalment	  British     outside	    worldyear	   India      British	    income.	       India	 Rs.		     Rs.	 Rs.1940-41	   Loss	 2,26,028	 74,944Loss   1,61,0841941-42	     1,27,062		 1,08,236     2,35,2981942-43	     2,62,827		 4,41,789     7,04,616In  addition  to  these findings,  the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner added a direction to the following effect :"   The	 Income-tax  Officer  is  directed  to	modify	 theassessments accordingly."When  the  matter reached the Income-tax  Officer,  he	gaveeffect to the order of the Appellate Assistant	Commissionerunder s. 31 of the Act and carried the loss to the  partnersin  their  assessments for the year 1940-41, and  granted  arefund	of Rs. 16,977-11-0 to Sir Sarupchand Hukamchand	 andRs.  68,339  to Sri Hiralal Kalyanmal.	The  assessee  firm,however,  was  not satisfied, and embarked  upon  voluminouscorrespondence	beginning with a letter dated September	 10,1949, by which it claimed that inasmuch as it had been shownto have incurred a loss in the first of the three assessmentyears, it could not for that year be treated as a registeredfirm,  and  that  as an unregistered firm  it  was  entitledtherefore to carry forward the loss to the subsequent years.In  addition to the correspondence, the assessee firm  movedin turn the Income-tax Officer991as well as the Appellate Assistant Commissioner respectivelyunder  s. 35 of the Act for rectification of the  assessmentto the same effect.  The officers of the Department at	bothlevels declined to interfere, and stated that the  directionof  the	 Income-tax  Officer  under  s.	 23(5)(b)  was	 notappealable,  and  had become final.  They also	pointed	 outthat  the  period  during which the original  order  of	 theIncome-tax  Officer could be rectified (viz., 4	 years)	 hadalready run out, and that the petitions were accordingly outof  time.  The assessee firm moved the Commissioner as	wellas  the	 Central  Board of Revenue, but failed	to  get	 thedesired order.Finally, after the receipt of the order of the Central Boardof  Revenue, the assesee firm applied on July 16,  1951,  tothe  Additional Income-tax Officer, Section VIII  (Central),to  give  effect  to an order which the	 assessee  firm	 hadsecured	 from the Appellate Assistant Commissioner  earlier.By that order, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner had,  atthe  request of the assessee firm, directed  the  Income-taxOfficer to take the losses of the first assessment year intothe  accounts  of  the partners,  which	 direction,  in	 theopinion	  of  the  Appellate  Assistant	 Commissioner,	 hispredecessor  had omitted to make in the first instance.	  Itwas  after this that fresh assessment forms were  drawn	 up,and  the refund was determined.	 It may be pointed out	herethat  the partners withdrew the amount of refund, though  inmaking the request to the Additional Income-tax Officer	 theassessee firm had reserved its right "to move further in thematter	as  may be advised ", and had pointed out  that	 theaction was without prejudice to such rights.Having	failed	to obtain relief from  the  Department,	 theappellate authorities and the Central Board of Revenue,	 theassessee  firm	filed  the petition under Art.	226  of	 theConstitution  in  the High Court of  Judicature	 at  Bombay.That petition was heard by Tendolkar, J., and he declined tointerfere mainly on the ground that it was possible to	taketwo  views of the matter whether after a  profit  assessmentwas turned into a loss assessment by the Appellate Assistant992Commissioner,  the original order of the Income-tax  Officerunder  s. 23(5)(b) remained outstanding or  not. He  thoughtthat  this was not a fit case for the issuance of a writ  ofmandamus by the High Court.  In appeal which was taken	fromthis  decision, Chagla, C. J., looked at proviso (d)  to  s.24(2),	and  also  came	 to  the  view	that  there  was   apossibility of two views being taken in the matter, and thatthe  learned  single  Judge was right  in  not	interfering.Shah,  J.,  in	a concurring  judgment,	 explained  what  heconsidered  was	 the  meaning of s. 23(5)(b)  read  with  s.24(2),	proviso	 (d), but he also felt that this was  not  acase  in which a Writ could be claimed against the Union  ofIndia  or the Income-tax Officers.  Chagla, C. J.,  however,expressed  the	hope that the taxing authorities  would	 notdeny  the  assessee  firm its rights under the	Act  on	 anytechnical ground, such as limitation, or failure to pursue aparticular  procedure.	In the result, the Divisional  Benchsustained the order of Tendolkar, J., who had dismissed	 thepetition  earlier.   This  Court on  May  3,  1954,  grantedspecial	 leave	to  appeal  against  the  judgment  of	 theDivisional Bench.Before	arguing	 on  merits  of	 the  appeal,  the   learnedAdditional Solicitor-General and subsequently Mr. RajagopalaSastri	who took over the argument, raised three  objectionsto  the present appeal.	 According to them, the petition  inthe  High Court was directed against the Union of India	 andthe two Income-tax Officers who had dealt with this  matter,and the relief which was claimed could be granted by none ofthem.	 They	further	  argued  that	 mandamus   was	  aninappropriate  writ to issue in this matter, when the  orderpassed	by the Income-tax Officer under s. 23(5)(b) was	 notappealable and the Appellate Assistant Commissioner could donothing	 about	it  in the appeal  against  the	 quantum  ofassessment.   They also stated that the relief asked for  inthe  petition  could not be granted by the High	 Court,	 andthat the powers of this Court were accordingly limited.We shall deal with these objections, when we have determinedthe  essence of the matter.  Under s. 23(5)(b), a  power  isconferred on the Income-tax Officer to treat an unregisteredfirm as a registered993firm, if by adopting that method more tax and supertax wouldbe  realisable	from the individual partners  in  their	 ownassessments than in assessing the firm.	 I The clause may bequoted in extenso for ready reference here :23(5).	  "  Notwithstanding  anything	contained   in	 theforegoing sub-sections, when the assessee is a firm and	 thetotal income of the firm has been assessed under sub-section(1),  sub-section  (3) or sub-section (4), as the  case	 maybe,-(b)  in	 the  case of an unregistered firm,  the  Income-taxOfficer	 may instead of determining the sum payable  by	 thefirm itself proceed in the manner laid down in clause (a) asapplicable  to	a registered firm, if, in his  opinion,	 theaggregate  amount  of the tax including super-tax,  if	any,payable	 by  the  partners under  such	procedure  would  begreater than the aggregate amount which would be payable  bythe  firm  and the partners individually if  the  firm	wereassessed as an unregistered firm.  "The  contention of the assessee firm is that the  action  ofthe Income-tax Officer in treating an unregistered firm as aregistered  firm is mainly in the interests of	the  Revenueand  he can act if more revenue would be available  and	 nototherwise.   When an unregistered firm makes a loss,  it  isentitled  to carry forward the loss for a certain number  ofyears  till  it	 is  absorbed in the  profits,	if  any,  ofsubsequent  years.  By carrying the loss to the	 account  ofthe individual partners, relief is afforded to them in theirown  income-tax	 payment, and there is presently a  loss  ofrevenue to the State.  This, according to the assessee firm,is  outside  the  jurisdiction of  the	Income-tax  Officer,because	 his action is conditioned upon realisation of	morerevenue	 and  not  creating loss  for  the  State.   Learnedcounsel for the Department agree that there would be, in theassessment year in which there is a loss by an	unregisteredfirm,  a  loss	to the Revenue if it  is  carried  into	 theaccounts of the partners ; but they contend that there is noinhibition against the 125994action	and refer to proviso (d) to s. 24(2)  as  indicatingthat  such a course is perfectly valid.	 The assessee	firmalso  contends	that the moment loss was determined  by	 theAppellate Assistant Commissioner, the previous order made bythe  Income-tax	 Officer  under	 s.  23(5)(b)  of  the	 Actautomatically fell to the ground and the loss could only  becarried	  forward   in	the  future   assessments   of	 theunregistered  assessee	firm and not in the account  of	 thepartners.  The assessee firm contends that the direction  bythe   Appellate	  Assistant  Commissioner  to	modify	 theassessments  of	 the  three years  accordingly	implied	 thereopening  of the entire question whether this	unregisteredfirm  could be treated as a registered firm for purposes  ofassessment in the first year.  The Department, on the  otherhand,  refers to the provisions of s. 30 of the Act to	showthat an appeal lies to the Appellate Assistant	Commissioneron the grounds expressly mentioned there and none other.  Itfurther	 points out that this is not one of the	 grounds  onwhich  the appeal could have been taken, and the Act  cannotby implication be deemed to have conferred on the  AppellateAssistant  Commissioner a power which he ordinarily did	 notpossess under the Act.	The order of the Income-tax  Officerto   treat  the	 unregistered  firm  as	  registered   must,therefore,  be	held  to be outstanding, and  all  that	 hashappened  in the case is to take that order to	its  logicalconclusion in the light of the assessed loss of the firm, inthe three years under assessment.This  question	was argued before us in	 great	detail,,  asapparently it had also been in the Court below.	 There is nodoubt  that the matter is one of some complexity,  which  isnot  unusual  in a statute of the type we  are	considering,but, in our opinion, only one correct view of the matter waspossible, and with all due, respect, the High Court made butlittle attempt to determine it.	 We shall now attempt to laydown the interpretation of the various sections bearing uponthe  matter.  Section 23(5)(b) has already been quoted.	  Itwill appear from it that the Income-tax Officer is given theoption	to  apply the procedure laid down in cl. (a)  to  anunregistered firm, if, in his995opinion, the aggregate amount of tax including supertax,  ifany,  payable by the partners under such procedure would  begreater	 than  the aggregate amount of tax  which  would  bepayable	 by the firm and the partners individually,  if	 thefirm  was  assessed  as an unregistered	 firm.	 Clause	 (a)provides  that	the  sum payable by the firm  shall  not  bedetermined but the total income of each partner of the firm,including therein his share of its income, profits and gainsof the previous year, shall be assessed and the sum  payableby him on the basis of such assessment shall be	 determined.To  put	 it  simply, in the case of a  registered  firm	 itsassessable income is first determined, but is not  processedfurther	 to determine the tax.	Instead, the shares  of	 thepartners   in  the  assessable	income	are  determined	  inaccordance  with the particulars furnished by them, and	 theresultant amounts are respectively carried to each partner'sreturn and included in his income, and the tax on the  totalis  determined.	  In the case of an unregistered  firm,	 theassessable income is found out, and then the tax payable  bythe unregistered firm is determined and a demand issued.  Ifthere  is  a loss, then the loss is carried forward  to	 thesucceeding years till it is absorbed or for six (now, eight)years  but  no	further.  Previously, the  number  of  yearsranged from one to six, but there is no need to refer to theprovision in detail.What happened in this case was that for the assessment	year1940-41,  the Income-tax Officer determined  the  assessableincome	at Rs. 80,358.	He felt that more tax was likely  tobe  realised  if the partners were assessed instead  of	 thefirm, and he accordingly decided to apply the procedure laiddown in s. 23(5)(b) to the firm.  In passing his order,	 theIncome-tax Officerobserved as follows:"  The firm is an unregistered one but the aggregate  amountof tax payable by the partners would be greater by  applyingthe procedure laid down in Sec. 23(5)(a) of the Act than theaggregate amount which would be payable by the firm and	 thepartners  individually	if  the firm  were  assessed  as  anunregistered one.  I therefore order under Sec. 23(5)(b)  ofthe996Act that the procedure laid down in Sec. 23(5)(a) should  beapplied and the firm declared N. D. for the assessment	year1940-41 ".It  is	no  doubt true that if the  Income-tax	Officer	 haddetermined a loss, he could not and probably would not	havepassed this order, which would have had the immediate effectof  loss  to  the Revenue of the sums which  have  now	beenordered to be refunded to the partners of this	unregisteredfirm.  The Department, however, says that the assessment for1940-41	 except in so far as profit was converted into	losshas become final and cannot be set aside now.  It relies  onCommissioner  of  Income-tax, Bombay and Aden  v.  KhemchandRamdas (1) and Commissioner of Income-tax v. Tribune  Trust,Lahore (1).  There is no doubt that an assessment which	 hasonce been made does become final, subject only to the powersexercisable  under ss. 34 and 35 of the Act.  The  position,however, is different when the assessment itself is  subjectto  appeal, and the Appellate Assistant Commissioner  passesan  order  converting the profit into a loss,  and  gives  adirection to the Income-tax Officer to modify the assessmentaccordingly.The  position  then  was that  the  Income-tax	Officer	 hadexercised  his	powers	under s. 23(5)(b)  as  there  was  aprofit.	  When the Appellate Assistant Commissioner found  aloss it became clear that the Income-tax Officer had, by  anerroneous  finding  of profit assumed  jurisdiction  to	 actunder  s. 23(5)(b).  The reversal of the finding  of  profitdestroyed the substratum of the jurisdiction of the  Income-tax  Officer  to  act  under  that  clause  and	 his   orderautomatically fell through.The Department's contention that such an order is  referableto  cl.	 (a) of s. 31(3) and does not  involve	the  settingaside  of the order under s. 23(5)(b) passed earlier by	 theIncome-tax  Officer is not correct.  No doubt, the right  ofappeal	given to the assessee under s. 30 is limited to	 thematters	  therein  contained,  but  the	 relief	 which	 theappellate  authority  can give is to be found in  s.  31(3).The  assessment	 order	having	come  before  the  AppellateAssistant Commissioner, he(1) [1938] 6 I.T.R. 414.(2) [1948] 16 I.T.R. 214.997can,  under cl. (a), confirm, reduce, enhance or  annul	 theassessment.   Under cl. (b) he can set aside the  assessmentand   direct  the  Income-tax  Officer	to  make   a   freshassessment,  after  making  such further  enquiries  as	 theIncome-tax  Officer  thinks fit or the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner  directs,	and  the  Income-tax  Officer	mustthereupon proceed to make fresh assessment and determine theamount of tax payable on the basis of such fresh assessment.It  is	contended by the Department that the  order  of	 theAppellate  Assistant Commissioner was- passed under cl.	 (a)and  not  cl.  (b),  and there	being  no  fresh  assessmentordered, the only thing that the Income-tax Officer could dowas  to	 redetermine the tax within the limits	of  his	 ownorder under s. 23(5)(b) of the Act, which applied cl. (a) ofthat sub-section to this case.In our opinion, this is not a correct approach.	 Even if theorder  be  referred to cl. (a) of s. 31(3), the	 effect,  inlaw,  was  the annulment of the assessment which  had,	beenmade  in  the  case, and the necessary	consequence  of	 thedetermination of the loss in the assessable income  remainedto  be worked out.  The Income-tax Officer worked it out  bycarrying  the losses to the return of the  partners.   Underwhat section could he do so except under s.  23(5)(b)	   ?There was no authorisation under s. 31(4) of the Act and thesecond proviso to s. 24 was clear.In	such  a	 case,	 theIncome-tax Officer was required once again to apply his mindto determine whether it would be in the interests of Revenueto  proceed, as he had done before.  It is manifest that  ifhe  had done this duty in the interests of the	Revenue,  asthe law indeed contemplates, he would never have passed	 theorder  that  the loss of the firm should be carried  to	 theaccounts  of  the  partners  immediately  in  that  year  ofassessment.  Learned counsel for the Department admits	thatno  Income-tax Officer would have, with a loss by the  firm,given relief on the basis of that loss to the partners,	 buthe contends that this is not illegal in view of the  specialprovisions  of	proviso	 (d) to s. 24(2)  of  the  Act.	  Weaccordingly proceed to consider the effect of that  proviso,which reads as follows:998" Provided that-(d)  where an unregistered firm is assessed as a  registeredfirm  under  clause (b) of sub-section (5)  of	Section	 23,during	any year, its losses shall also be  carried  forwardand  set off under this section as if it were  a  registeredfirm ".From this, it is argued, as it was argued in the High Court,that even the losses of an unregistered firm can be  carriedto  the partners' account, as if the firm  were	 registered.No doubt, if the proviso is read in an extended manner,	 theresult	for would follow; but a careful reading of it  wouldshow  that  it	was not designed to  enable  the  Income-taxOfficer	 to forego the obligation laid on him by cl. (b)  ofs. 23(5), to find out the interests of the Revenue.  To readthis proviso as enabling the Income-tax Officer to  overlookthe said clause is to give no meaning to the words "  duringany year".  Those words form a material part of the proviso,because	 the  proviso with or without those words  makes  anentirely  different sense.  Without those words, it gives  ageneral power to carry the losses to the partner's  account.With those words, it only provides for a continent in  whichan unregistered firm treated as such in the previous  years,is  sought in any particular year to be treated as a  regis-tered  firm,  and by reason of its  carrying  some  businesslosses in the past, arrangement for the carrying forward andabsorption  of those losses has to be made for the  year  inwhich  it  is to be treated as a registered firm.   In	thatevent, the proviso provides that its losses shall be carriedto  the partners' account, as if it were a registered  firm.It  is	inconceivable that if the firm	was  carrying  heavybusiness  losses, it would suddenly be treated in a year  ofassessment  as a registered firm, so that its  losses  mightgive  relief  to the partners and not give -revenue  to	 theState.	 This  proviso would only be resorted  to,  when  inspite of taking the, losses to the accounts of the partners,more  revenue would be available to the State.	The  provisois  an enabling one.  An unregistered firm, treated as	suchin  previous  years, may, during any year, be treated  as  aregistered firm provided the Revenue would999benefit.   It may be that the firm may have made a  loss  inthat  year  or was carrying a loss from the  previous  yearsbut,  if  by treating the firm as  registered,	the  Revenuewould  be benefited, the proviso can be used.  But there  isno  general  power to act this way to the detriment  of	 theRevenue.   To give any other interpretation to this  provisowill  mean  that  the words " during any  year	"  have	 notreceived any meaning and that the proviso is interpreted  tomake it not incumbent on the Income-tax Officer to  considerthe  interests of the Revenue, as required by cl. (b) of  s.23(5).	The two Provisions must be read in harmony, and whenso  read,  yield the only result that proviso (d) is  to  beinvoked,  subject  to the conditions under  s.	23(5)(b)  toobtain more revenue for the State by applying s. 23(5)(a).It  would appear, therefore, that the Income-tax Officer  inthe  light  of	the  losses  determined	 by  the   AppellateAssistant  Commissioner, was under a duty to apply his	mindde  novo  to the problem which he had  undertaken,  when  heresorted to s. 23(5) (b).  It is admitted that if the matterhad  been so plain to him, he would not have, if he did	 hisduty  correctly under that provision, carried the losses  tothe partners' account.The   only   question,	 therefore,   Which   survives	 fordetermination	is  whether  the  order	 of  the   AppellateAssistant  Commissioner left the Income-tax Officer free  ofhis  earlier  order,  and whether he was  under	 a  duty  toreconsider the position under s. 23(5) (b).  When the  basisfor  assessing a profit was gone, it is manifest that  therewas  nothing  but  loss to carry forward  to  the  partners'account.   With the fall of the assessment in  this  manner,fell the need for applying the special provisions of cl. (b)of s. 23(5) to the case.  Indeed, the duty of the Income-taxOfficer indicated a contrary course, if he was to act  unders.  23(5) (b) at all.  The order of the Appellate  AssistantCommissioner   was  passed  in	respect	 of   three   years'assessment,  and  was a consolidated order.  He set  out  inparallel  columns the income and losses of the firm and	 notof the partners and directed the Income-tax Officer to1000modify the assessments accordingly.  The intention obviouslyunderlying that order was to put the matter  at the stage atwhich  the  assessable	income	of  the	 assembly  firm	 wasdetermined  before computing the tax thereupon.	 To  computethe tax, the Income-fax Officer had to determine whether theloss occasioned in the first year should be carried  forwardto  the assessee firm in the subsequent year, and  he  couldnot  give  effect to the order of  the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner  fully,  unless he determined  once  again	 thequestion   under  s.  23(5)  (b).   In	other	words,	 theimplication  of the appellate 'order was to take the  matterprior	to  the	 order	regarding  the	treatment   of	 theunregistered  firm as a registered firm, and  of  necessity,that  order fell to the ground as being passed	beyond	thatstage.It  is contended on the strength of the ruling of the  PrivyCouncil in Commissioner of Income-tax v. The Tribune  Trust,Lahore	(1) that once the assessment is final and valid,  itremains	 so  until it is set aside, but once it	 has  becomefinal, it cannot be altered except under ss. 34 and 35.	  Noexception  can be taken to the statement of the law  by	 thePrivy  Council, which, with all due respect,  is  absolutelycorrect, but it is impossible to hold, on analogy, that	 theorder  determining  that this unregistered  firm  should  betreated as registered, had equally become final and not opento  further consideration.  Learned counsel for the  Depart-ment  also urged on the strength of Commissioner of  Income-tax v. McMillan & Co. (2) and Commissioner of Income-tax  v.Amritlal  Bhogilal  &  Co. (3), that if the  powers  of	 theAppellate Assistant Commissioner did not involve a review ofthe  determination by the Income-tax Officer under's.  23(5)(b), this result could not indirectly follow.  No doubt, theAppellate  Assistant Commissioner could not, if	 the  matterhad  gone before him in appeal against the order under	thatsection,  have	interfered.   But  the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner  was exercising his powers under s. 31  of	 theAct and annulling the assessment(1) [1948] 16 I.T.R. 214.      (2) [1958] 33 I.T.R. 182,(3) [1958] 34 I.T.R. 13o.1001of the first year and converting a profit in that year	intoa loss.	 None can deny that he had that power in the  appealwhich was before him.  Section 31(4) of the Act enjoins thatwhere  as the result of an appeal any change is made in	 theassessment  of a firm, the Appellate Assistant	Commissionermay  authorise the Income-tax Officer to  amend	 accordinglyany assessment made on any partner of the firm.	 This  powerwas  implicit  in the order which  the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner  passed, namely, that there was a loss  in	 theassessment  year  in question and the  assessments  for	 thethree  years  had to be modified.   The	 Income-tax  Officertherefore was under a duty to modify the assessments of	 thepartners  accordingly, and to take the matter up again	fromthe  point  at which the order of  the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner had placed it.  He had once again to  determinewhether	 he  would,  in	 the  altered  circumstances,  applys.23(5)(b) to this case or not.In  our opinion, the Income-tax Officers in questiondid	 notdo their duty as required by law, and we should,  therefore,by a writ compel them to do so.As  regards  the  argument that	 the  petition	is  directedagainst	 wrong	persons and for a wrong relief,	 we  do	 notthink that it is so.  The petition sought relief against theUnion of India, which, in any event, was not concerned	withthis matter, and was wrongly joined.  But the two Income-taxOfficers who dealt with this matter, were required under thestatute	 to  do their duty once again in the matter  of	 theapplication of s. 23(5) (b) of the Act.	 That they failed toapply  their mind to this matter under a wrong	apprehensionof the law is manifest, and they did not give effect to	 theorders	 of  the  Appellate  Assistant	Commissioner.	 Theassessee  firm having failed to secure this relief from	 allthe authorities superior to the Income-tax Officers, it	 wasopen  to  the High Court by a writ to order  the  Income-taxOfficer	 concerned  to	hear and determine  this  matter  inaccordance with law.  This is precisely the relief which wasclaimed in the High Court and is now claimed in the  presentappeal.	 We1261002think,	with due respect, that the High Court should   have,on a correct appraisal of the legal situation,	ordered thisrelief,	 and  we  accordingly,	after  explaining  the	 lawapplicable  to	the case, order the  appropriate  Income-taxOfficer	 to hear and determine this matter in the  light  ofour observations.We  may set down here that the two partners of the  firm  towhom  relief  has  been given by way  of  refund  after	 theAppellate    Assistant	 Commissioner's	  order	   undertookunconditionally to refund the amounts, before the matter  isconsidered.  by the Income-tax Officer.	 We order  that	 thetwo  partners shall return the amounts in the manner  to  beordered by the Income-tax Officer, before action is taken todetermine the matter.In  the result, the appeal is allowed with costs  throughoutto be paid by respondents 2 and 3. The Union of India shall,however,  bear	its  own costs.	 It may	 be  noted  that  noseparate  costs were incurred by it either in this Court  orin  the Court below.  It joined respondents 2 and 3  in	 thestatement of the case filed in this Court and also  appearedthrough the same counsel in both the Courts.Appeal allowed.