PETITIONER:SHRI V. V. GIRI	Vs.RESPONDENT:DIPPALA SURI DORA AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:20/05/1959BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1318		  1960 SCR  (1) 426ACT:Election-Double member constituency-Reserved  seat-ScheduledTribe  candidate  for  reserved seat,  if  can	be  declaredelected to general seat--Provisions Permitting such  course,whether ultra vires -Hindu Law-Member of Scheduled Tribe  orCaste-When  can attain higher caste--Representation  of	 thePeople	Act,  1951  (43	 Of  1951),  S.	  54(4)-DelimitationCommission Act, 1952 (81 Of 1952). s. 8.HEADNOTE:   In  a double member Parliamentary constituency  one	seatwas  reserved  for the scheduled tribes and  the  other	 wasgeneral.   Four	 persons  filed their  nominations  for	 theelection, G 1 and G 2 for the general seat and S1 and S2 forthe  reserved  seat.   At  the polls  the  number  of  votesreceived by the candidates were in the following order:	 S1,S2,  G1	 and G2.  In accordance with the  provisions  of  s.54(4) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, S1	 wasdeclared  elected  to  the reserved seat  and  S2,  who	 hadreceived  the largest number of votes out of  the  remainingcandidates,  was declared elected to the general  seat.	  G1filed  an  election  petition for  a  declaration  that	 theelection  of S2 was void and for a further declaration	thathe  had himself been duly elected to the general seat.	 Thepetition  was based on three grounds, viz., (i) that upon  aproper interpretation Of S. 54(4) a candidate who had  filedhis  nomination for the reserved seat could not be  declaredelected	  to   the  general  seat  ;  (ii)   that   if	 theinterpretation	be otherwise then s. 54(4) was ultra  vires;and  (iii) that S2 had ceased to be a member of a  scheduledtribe at the relevant time and his nomination was improperlyaccepted. Held,	(Kapur,	 J., dissenting) that, S2 was  properly	 andvalidly	  declared   elected.	 The   provisions   of	 theConstitution  and  of the Act show that the  election  in  adouble	 member	  constituency	was  held  for	 the   wholeconstituency  and not for the seats and a candidate who	 hadfiled  nomination  as a member of the scheduled	 tribes	 wasentitled  to  contest  for both the seats.  On	a  fair	 andreasonable  construction Of S. 54(4) Of the Act there  couldbe  no doubt that in a case like the present, after  S1	 wasdeclared  duly	elected	 to the	 reserved  seat,  the  votessecured	 by  the  remaining  three  candidates	had  to	  beconsidered  before  declaring the election for	the  generalseat.	A  member of the scheduled tribe or  caste  did	 notforego his right to seek election to the general seat merelybecause	 he availed himself of the additional concession  ofstanding  for  the reserved seat by  making  the  prescribeddeclaration for that purpose.  It was not necessary for	 himto file two nomination papers for the two seats. Section 54(4) of the Act did not offend Art. 14 or Art. 330Of the Constitution and was not unconstitutional.427  Held, further, that the appellant had failed to  establishthat S2 had ceased to be a member of the scheduled tribe andhad become a Kshatriya.	 Whatever may have been the-  originof  Hindu  castes  and tribes in  ancient  times,  graduallycastes	came  to  be based on birth  alone.   A	 person	 whobelonged  by birth to a depressed caste or tribe would	findit  very difficult, if not impossible, to attain the  statusof  a  higher caste by virtue of  his  volition,  education,culture and status.  The caste status of a person had to  bedetermined  in the light of the recognition received by	 himfrom the members of the caste into which he sought an  entry; unilateral acts of such a person asserting a higher statuswere not enough to establish the higher status.	 It is to behoped that this position will change, and in course of	timethe  cherished	ideal  of castless society  truly  based  onsocial	equality will be attained under the powerful  impactof the doctrine of social justice and equality proclaimed bythe  Constitution  and	sought	to  be	implemented  by	 therelevant  statutes and as a result of the spread of  seculareducation and the growth of a rational outlook and of propersense  of  social  values  ; but  at  present  it  would  beunrealistic  and utopian to ignore the difficulties which  amember	of  the	 depressed tribe or caste  has	to  face  inclaiming a higher status amongst his co-religionists.  Per  Kapur, J.-The election Of S2 to the general seat	 wasnot  valid.  When a member of the scheduled tribe  or  casteoffered himself for election to a reserved seat he could  beelected only to that seat and not to the general seat.	 Theprovisions of the Constitution and of the Act show that	 theelection in a constituency was for filling of a seat in	 theconstituency  and not for a constituency.  When a  candidateoffers	himself for election in a constituency, he  does  sofor election to fill a seat in the constituency.  Therefore,if  a candidate wanted to contest both the seats he  had  tofile two nomination papers one for the general seat and	 theother for the reserved seat and he had to make two deposits.Section	 8(2)  Of  the	Delimitation  Commission  Act,	1952destroyed the effect of S. 54 of the Act.  Caste in Hinduism had its origin not on the basis of birthbut  of	 guna,	karma and subhavana  (quality,	actions	 andcharacter).   Caste  is	 nothing  but  division	 of  labour.Hinduism  might	 have become static at one time;  it  is  nolonger	so  and it is wrong to say that caste  is  dependentupon  birth and not on kayma i.e. action.  S. 2 had  by	 hisactions raised himself to the position of a Kshatriya and hewas no longer a member of the scheduled tribe or caste.JUDGMENT:  CIVIL	 APPELLATE  JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal	No.  539  of1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedMarch  13, 1958 of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in  SpecialAppeal No. 4 of 1957, arising out of the judgment and  orderdated November 18, 1957,428of the Election Tribunal, Hyderabad in Election Petition No.83 of 1957.  N. C.	 Chatterjee, A. N. Sinha and T.	 Satyanarayana,	 forthe appellant.  P. Banta Reddy and R. Mahalingaiyer, for respondent No. 1.  S. S. Shukla, for respondent No. 2. 1959.	May 20.	 The judgment of B. P. Sinha, Jafar Imam, P.B. Ganjendragadkar and K.N. Wanchoo, JJ. was delivered by P.B.  Gajendragadkar, J. J. L. Kapur, J. delivered a  separatejudgment.  GAJENDRAGADKARJ.-This appeal by special leave, arises froman  election petition filed by Mr. V. V.  Giri	(hereinaftercalled the appellant) in which the validity of the  electionof  Mr. Dippala Suri Dora (hereinafter called respondent  1)was   challenged.    The   Parliamentary   Constituency	  ofParvatipuram  in  the State of Andhra Pradesh is  a  double-member constituency; one seat is reserved for the  scheduledtribes and the other is general.  In the General Election tothe  House  of the people held in 1957 four  candidates	 hadbeen  nominated from the said constituency.   The  appellantand Mr. B. Satyanarayana Dora (hereinafter called respondent2)  were adopted by the Congress Party, while  respondent  1and  Mr.  'V.	Krishnamoorthy	Naidu  (hereinafter   calledrespondent  3) were the candidates of the  Socialist  Party.For this constituency polling took place between February 25and March 19, 1957, and the counting of votes disclosed thatthe   appellant	 and  the  three  respondents  had   secured1,24,039,    1,24,604,	 1,26,792   and	   1,18,968    votesrespectively.	The result of the election was	declared  onMarch  19,  1957.  It was announced that  respondent  2	 hadbeen, elected to fill the reserved seat and respondent 1 thegeneral	 seat.	On April 16, 1957, the appellant  filed	 thepresent	 election  petition No. 83 of 1957  challenging	 thevalidity  of  respondent  1's  election.   He  alleged	thatrespondent  I  had offered himself as a	 candidate  for	 thereserved seat and as such he was not entitled to be  electedfor the general seat.  In the alternative he urged that429respondent 1 was not a member of the scheduled tribe' at thematerial  time	and so the declaration made by him  in	thatbehalf was false.  According to the appellant respondent 1'snomination had, therefore, been L improperly accepted and ithad  materially	 affected  the election.  That	is  why	 theappellant  claimed  a twofold declaration.   He	 wanted	 thetribunal to declare that the election of respondent I  underthe Representation of the People Act, 1951 (Act 43 of  1951)(hereinafter  called  the  Act) was void  and  that  he	 hadhimself	 been duly elected to the House of the	People	fromthe Parvatipuram Parliamentary Constituency for the  generaland  non-reserved  seat.  These allegations were  denied  byrespondent 1.Broadly stated the main part of the appellant's case  restedon  two	 grounds.   He	relied on the  fact  that  both	 theCongress  and Socialist Parties had adopted  two  candidateseach,  one  for	 the reserved seat and	the  other  for	 thegeneral	 seat.	 Respondent  I	had  been  adopted  for	 thereserved  seat	and  in the nomination forms  filed  on	 hisbehalf	he had made the requisite declaration that he was  amember	of the scheduled tribe.# He conducted  his  electioncampaign  on  the  basis that he was  a	 candidate  for	 thereserved seat and the voters must have voted for him on	 thesame basis.  If it is found that his rival candidate for thesaid reserved seat (respondent 2) secured a larger number ofvotes and so he was declared elected to fill the said  seat,it  is	not open to respondent	to claim  election  for	 thegeneral	 seat.	If a candidate offers himself for one  seat,how  can  he  claim to be elected for the  other,  asks	 theappellant.The appellant concedes that the reservation of seats for thescheduled castes or tribes is a special concession shown  tothe  members  of the said castes and tribes in view  of	 thefact  that they are educationally socially  and	 financiallyvery  backward;	 it  is also conceded that  members  of	 thescheduled castes or tribes are entitled to contest  electionfor the general seat; but the argument is that a member of ascheduled tribe must make up his mind and decide which	seathe  wishes to contest.	If he wants to contest	the  generalseat he430may  do	 so  and  in  that event  he  should  not  make	 theprescribed declarations on his nomination form; on the otherhand,  if  he wants to contest the reserved seat  he  shouldelect  to  do so, make the necessary  declaration  and	thenconcentrate his attention on the reserved seat.	 Having oncemade his election he cannot subsequently fall back upon	 hisright  to be elected for the general seat.   Thus  presentedthe  argument  no  doubt appears to be	plausible  and	evenattractive. Respondent  1,	 however,  dispute  the	 validity  of	thiscontention.   His case is that the reservation of  seats  isintended  as  an additional and special	 concession  to	 thescheduled castes or tribes.  That, however, does not  affectthe  right  of the members of the said castes or  tribes  toclaim along with the other citizens of the country the rightto  be	elected	 to  the  general  seat.   In  other  words,according  to respondent 1, a member of the scheduled  tribeis entitled to claim election either to the reserved seat orto  the general seat in a double-member constituency,  whereone  seat  is reserved for the scheduled tribes	 or  castes.When  a	 member of the scheduled tribe makes  a	 declarationabout his status on his nomination form it merely means thathe  claims  the	 additional benefit of	being  eligible	 forelection  to  the reserved seat.  If in the  fight  for	 thereserved  seat his rival candidate defeats him, that  cannotdetract from, or affect, his right to claim election to	 thegeneral	 seat; and if the voters in the constituencies	haveexpressed their confidence in him by putting him at the	 topamongst	 the remaining candidates, he is entitled  to  claimelection to the said general seat.  The object of  reservingseats obviously is to create confidence in the minds of	 thebackward  castes  and tribes and to give them  an  assuranceabout  their welfare and future in the political set  up  ofthe  country.	This  object necessarily  implies  that	 themembers	 of the said castes and tribes should have a  doubleopportunity   of  seeking  election  from  a   double-memberconstituency.Respondent 1 does not concede that he contested the electionsolely for the reserved seat.  It is admitted on his  behalfthat  he did make the necessary declaration and he may	havebrought it to the notice of the voters431that  he  was  a member of the scheduled  tribe.   That	 wasinevitable  since  he  was claiming to be  elected  for	 thereserved  seat.	  It  is,  however, urged  that	 if  in	 lawelection took place for the constituency as a whole, and notfor  separate  seats,  the fact that  his  nomination  paperreferred  to " the reserved constituency " and some  of	 hisstatements  during  the	 course of  his'  election  campaignmentioned  the	fact that he was t member of  the  scheduledtribe  would  not prejudicially affect his  right  to  claimelection  for the general seat.	 Incidentally  respondent  Iclaimed that the declaration of his election to the  generalseat  in fully consistent with the express provisions of  s.54(4)  of  the Act, whereas the appellant pleaded  in  replythat   the  construction  sought  to  be  placed  upon	 theprovisions of s. 54(4) by respondent I was unreasonable	 andif not the said provision was ultra vires. On the three major points which thus arose for decision  inthe  present  election	petition the  Election	Tribunal  atHyderabad  and	the  High  Court  of  Andhra  Pradesh	havediffered.  The Tribunal upheld the appellant's	contentions,made  the  two declarations claimed by him and	allowed	 hiselection  petition with costs.	On appeal to the High  Courtthe  points  made by respondent I have	been  accepted,	 thefindings  made by the tribunal and the declarations  grantedby it have been reversed and the appellant's election  peti-tion  dismissed	 with  costs  throughout.   The	 appellant'sapplication  for  a certificate was dismissed  by  the	HighCourt.	 Thereupon  he applied to this	Court  and  obtainedspecial	 leave to appeal.  That is how this appeal has	comebefore us. What  then  is the true constitutional and  legal  positionwith regard to the election to the House of the People	froma double-member constituency where one seat is reserved	 forthe  members of the scheduled tribes or castes?	 The  answerto  this  question  would  depend upon	the  effect  of	 therelevant   provisions  of  the	Constitution  and  the	 Actrespectively.  Let us first examine the relevant articles ofthe constitution.  Article  325	provides  that there shall  be	one  generalelectoral roll for every territorial constituency for432election  to either House of Parliament and that  no  personshall be ineligible for inclusion in any such roll or  claimto  be	included  in any such electoral roll  for  any	suchconstituency  on grounds only of religion, race, caste,	 sexor any of them.	 Article 326 which deals inter alia with theelections to the House of the People lays down that the saidelections  shall be on the basis of adult suffrage, that  isto  say, every person who is a citizen of India and  who  isnot  less than 21 years of age at the relevant date  and  isnot otherwise disqualified under the Constitution or any lawmade by the appropriate Legislature on the grounds specifiedshall  be entitled to be registered as a voter at  any	suchelection.   It	is  thus clear that the	 electoral  roll  isprepared on a purely secular basis without any reference  toreligion, race, caste or sex and that the qualification	 forbeing  included	 as a voter on the said	 electoral  roll  islikewise  wholly secular and of general application  to	 allcitizens in the country.Let  us	 then  refer  to the articles  that  deal  with	 thecomposition of the House of the People and qualification formembership  of	Parliament.  Article 81	 (1)  provides	thatsubject	 to  the  provisions of Art. 331 the  House  of	 thePeople shall consist inter alia of not more than 500 memberschosen by direct election from territorial constituencies inthe  States.  This article contemplates the division of	 theStates	into territorial constituencies and it provides	 forthe election of 500 members from these constituencies to theHouse of the People.  Article 84 deals with the question  ofqualification  and  it provides that a person shall  not  bequalified  to  be chosen to fill a seat	 in  the  Parliamentunless	he is (a) a citizen of India, (b) in the case  of  aseat  in the House of the People not less than 25  years  ofage,  and (c) possesses such other qualifications as may  beprescribed  in	that  behalf by or under  any  law  made  byParliament. It  is	 by  virtue of Art. 84(c) that	the  Parliament	 haspassed	the  two  relevant  statutes.	They  are  the	 Re-presentation  of the People Act, 1950 (Act 43 of  1950)	 andthe Act.  We will presently refer to the relevant provisionsof the Act.  Meanwhile we would like to433refer  to another article of the Constitution which is	veryimportant.   It is Art. 330.  It occurs in Pt.	XVI  of	 theConstitution which deals with special provisions relating tocertain	 classes.  It provides for the reservation of  seatsfor  scheduled castes and scheduled tribes in the  House  ofthe  People.   Article	331 lays down that  seats  shall  bereserved  in  the  House  of  the  -People  for	 the   threecategories  enumerated in (a), (b) and (c).  In the  presentcase  we are concerned with the second category which  dealswith  the scheduled tribes.  Article 330(2)  provides  interalia that the number of seats reserved in any State for	 thescheduled  tribes under sub-Art.(1) shall bear as nearly  asmay  be	 the same proportion to the total  number  of  seatsallotted  to  that State in the House of the People  as	 thepopulation  of the scheduled tribes in the State or part  ofthe  State as the case may be in respect of which seats	 areso  reserved  bears  to the population	of  the	 State.	  Inproviding  for	the  members of	 the  scheduled	 tribes	 thespecial	 concession  by	 way of	 reservation  of  seats	 theConstitution has adopted the fair, just and equitable methodof fixing the number of the said reserved seats on the basisof  the proportion mentioned in Art. 330(2).  Whilst we	 arereferring  to this article we may incidentally mention	Art.334 which provides that the reservation of seats provided byArt.  330 shall cease to have effect on the expiration of  aperiod	 of   ten  years  from	the  commencement   of	 theConstitution subject to the proviso.Thus  it is clear that election to the House of	 the  Peopleeven  from  a double-member constituency where one  seat  isreserved for the members of the scheduled tribes in one, andthough	the  Constitution  shows  just	anxiety	 to   affordnecessary protection to the members of the scheduled tribes,it  deliberately  refused to adopt the	system	of  separateelectorates.   The constituency is one and election is	heldto  the	 said  constituency from one  joint  electoral	rollprepared on the basis of qualifications which are of generaland   uniform  application.   In  regard  to   double-memberconstituencies	like Parvatipuram the Constitution  has	 noteven   adopted	the  course  of	 providing  for	 a   specialconstituency55434confined to the members of the scheduled tribe.	 All that isdone  is  to provide for the reservation of  seats  for	 themembers	 of the said tribes or castes in the manner  alreadyindicated.   Even  for the reserved seat all voters  in	 theconstituency  are  entitled to vote.  The reservation  of  aseat  in  a double-member  constituency	 cannot,  therefore,affect the main basic position that the constituency is	 oneand for returning representatives to the House of the Peopleit is the same joint electorate that goes to the poll. Let  us  now  proceed to consider the	position  under	 therelevant  provisions of the Act.  It is necessary  to  beginwith  the  definitions	of  parliamentary  constituency	 andelection.  Section 2(f) of the Representation of the  PeopleAct, 43 of 1950, defines a " parliamentary constituency " asmeaning	 a constituency provided by law for the	 purpose  ofelections to the House of the People; whereas s. 2(d) of theAct  defines "election-" to mean an election to fill a	seator   seats  inter  alia	 in  House  of	Parliament.    Thesedefinitions  show  that it is a	 parliamentary	constituencythat  sends  the representatives to fill the  seats  in	 theHouse	of  the	 People.   Elections  are  held	 from	suchconstituencies and candidates declared duly elected fill theseats in the House of Parliament to which they are  elected.Section	 4  prescribes qualification for membership  of	 theHouse  of the People.  Section 4(b) provides that  a  personshall  not be qualified to be chosen to fill a seat  in	 theHouse  of the People unless in the case of a  seat  reservedfor  the  scheduled  tribes he is a member  of	any  of	 thescheduled  tribes  and is an elector for  any  parliamentaryconstituency.	This  section expressly	 provides  what	 wasclearly	  implicit   in	 the  relevant	 articles   of	 theConstitution that before a person can claim to be elected tofill  a seat reserved for the scheduled tribes he must be  amember	of the said tribes besides being an elector for	 theparliamentary  constituency in question.  Section  32  dealswith  the  nomination  of candidates  for  election  and  itprovides that any person may be nominated as a candidate forelection  to fill a seat if he is qualified to be chosen  tofill a seat under the provisions of the Constitution and theAct.  The next section435to  consider  is s. 33.	 It deals with the  presentation  ofnomination  papers  and prescribes the	requirements  for  avalid  nomination.   Section  33(2)  is	 relevant  for	 ourpurpose.   It provides that any constituency where any	seatis reserved a candidate shall not be deemed to be  qualifiedto  be chosen to fill that seat unless his nomination  papercontains  a  declaration by him	 specifying  the  particulartribe  of which he is a member and the area in	relation  towhich the tribe is a scheduled tribe of the State.   Section33(6)  lays down that nothing in this section shall  preventany  candidate	from  being  nominated	by  more  than	 onenomination paper for election in the same constituency.	 Theeffect of s. 33(2) is that unless a member of the  scheduledtribe  makes  the  required  declaration  he  would  not  beentitled  to claim election to the reserved seat.  In  otherwords,	if a member of the scheduled tribe does not want  tobe considered -for election to the reserved seat be need notmake  the  said declaration; and in that case  be  would  beentitled to contest the election only for the general  seat.But  it does not follow that if a scheduled tribe  candidatemakes the said declaration he forfeits his right to  contestfor the general seat.  It is necessary to point out at	thisstage  that  the prescribed nomination paper  (Form  24)  iscommon	to all the candidates.	In regard to the  candidatescontesting   for  the  reserved	 seat,	however,  the	formprescribes the declaration which they are required to  make.In  the	 matter	 of  deposits  required	 by  s.	 34  anotherconcession is made in favour of the members of the scheduledcastes or tribes; whereas 'in the case of an election from aparliamentary constituency a candidate is required to make adeposit	 of  Rs. 500 the amount is fixed at Rs. 250  in	 thecase  of  members  of scheduled castes	or  tribes.   It  issignificant that this concession is not confined to  membersof the scheduled tribe contesting the election only for	 thereserved seat.	It is available to them even if they want tocontest	 only for the general seat.  Section 35	 requires  anotice	of  nominations	 and  a time  and  place  for  theirscrutiny  to  be  published; and s. 38 requires	 a  list  ofcontesting  candidates to be published, The  two  prescribedforms for436the said notices are Forms 3A and 4 ;_they make no referenceto  the two respective seats and give the particulars  aboutall  the candidates in the respective columns.	It  is	truethat in col. (6) of Form 3A particulars of caste or tribe ofcandidates  belonging  to  scheduled castes  or	 tribes	 arerequired  to  be  mentioned.  That is  consistent  with	 therequirement  of	 s. 33(2).  It would thus be seen  that	 thescheme	of  the	 relevant provisions of the  Act,  like	 thescheme	of  the relevant articles of  the  Constitution,  isclear.	 The  election	to the House of the  People  from  adouble-member  constituency is held as an election from	 thewhole of the constituency as such.  It is on that basis thatthe  nomination	 papers	 are  required	to  be	filed.	 Thenotifications  about the nominations are published  and	 thelist of the validly nominated candidates is announced on thesame  basis.   The counting of votes is	 similarly  made  byreference to all the candidates.  It is only when the resultof  the election is prepared for declaration that the  votesof candidates who have made the prescribed declarations	 arefirst  taken into account and the result of the election  inrespect	 of the reserved seat is first determined, and	thenthe votes secured by the remaining candidates are taken intoaccount and the result of the election for the other generalseat is determined and declared.Section	 63 of the Act would also assist us in deciding	 thepoint  in  dispute  between the	 parties.   Section  63	 (1)provides  for the method of voting and it lays down that  inplural-member	 constituencies	   other    than     Councilconstituencies	every  elector shall have as many  votes  asthere  are  members to be elected but no member	 shall	givemore than one vote to any one candidate.  It is not disputedthat voters in a double-member constituency are not bound tovote in reference to the two seats.  If the Act had intendedthat  the election in such a constituency should take  placeby  reference  to the two respective seats,  it	 would	haveprovided for voting by the electors on that basis, and wouldhave   required	  the  voters  to  cast	 their	 two   votesrespectively  by reference to the two seats.  Section  63(1)on the other hand allows voters to cast their two437votes to any two candidates of their choice whether both  ofthem  claim  to	 be elected to the general seat	 or  to	 thereserved  seat	or  one of them claims one  seat  and  otherclaims	the  other.  This method of voting  is	inconsistentwith  the appellant's case that the election to the  double-member constituency is held seat wise.Section	 54(4)	emphatically brings out the  same  position.Section	 54 (1) provides that it shall apply in relation  toany election in a constituency where the seats to be  filledinclude one or more seats reserved for the scheduled  castesor scheduled tribes.  Subsection (4) reads thus:-	      "	 If  the  number  of  contesting  candidates	      qualified	 to be chosen to fill  the  reserved	      seats  exceeds the number of such	 seats,	 and	      the total number of contesting candidates also	      exceeds  the  total  number  of  seats  to  be	      filled, a poll shall be taken ; and after	 the	      poll  has	 been taken, the  returning  officer	      shall first declare those who, being qualified	      to be chosen to fill the reserved seats,	have	      secured  the  largest number of votes,  to  be	      duly  elected to fill the reserved seats,	 and	      then declare such of the remaining  candidates	      as have secured the largest number of votes to	      be duly elected to fill the remaining seats." On  a fair and a reasonable construction of this  provisionthere can be no doubt that in a case like the present, afterrespondent 2 was declared duly elected to the reserved seat,the  votes secured by the remaining three candidates had  tobe   considered	 before	 declaring  the	 election  for	 theunreserved  seat  and that is precisely what  the  returningofficer has done when he declared that respondent I had beenduly  elected  to the said seat.  The illustration  to	thissub-section  makes this position absolutely clear.  This  ishow the illustration reads:-	      "	 At  an election in a constituency  to	fill	      four seats of which two are reserved there are	      six contesting candidates A, B, C, D, E and F,	      and they - secure votes in descending order, A	      securing	the largest number, B, C and  D	 are	      qualified	 to be chosen to fill  the  reserved	      seats, while A, E and F	      438	      are  not so qualified.  The returning  officer	      will  first  declare B and C duly	 elected  to	      fill the two reserved seats, and then  declare	      A	 and D (not A and E) to fill  the  remaining	      two seats."In  our	 opinion s. 54(4) and the  illustration	 are  whollyconsistent with the relevant provisions of the	Constitutionand of the Act.Whilst	we are dealing with s. 54 we may incidentally  referto  the	 appellant's argument based on s. 6(2)	(c)  of	 theDelimitation  Commission  Act,	1952  (81  of  1952)   whichprovides  that	in every two-member  constituency  one	seatshall be reserved either for the scheduled castes or for thescheduled  tribes,  and	 the other seat	 shall	not  be	 -soreserved.   It is urged that in view of this  provision	 thecase  contemplated by the illustration to s. 54 (4)  is	 notlikely to occur any more and in that sense the	illustrationhas  become  otiose.   That may be true.  But  even  so	 thesignificance  of the illustration lies in the fact  that  itclarifies  and	explains concretely how the  reservation  ofseats for the depressed castes and tribes will actually workout in elections in the relevant constituencies.There  is  another argument which -nay be noticed.   It	 wasfaintly	 suggested by the appellant that s. 54(4)  is  ultravires since it is inconsistent with Arts. 14 and 330 of	 theConstitution.	One has merely to recall the  provisions  ofArt.  15  (3) and (4) to reject the argument that  s.  54(4)offends	 against Art. 14.  As regards Art 330 it is  obviousthat  the  reservation	of seats  as  therein  specified  isintended  to  guarantee	 a minimum number of  seats  to	 thescheduled  castes  and tribes; therefore if members  of	 thesaid  castes and tribes secure additional seats by  electionto general unreserved seats there would be no repugnancy  atall.  There is no substance in the contention that s. 54 (4)is ultra vires.There  is one more section of the Act to -  which  referencemust be made.  It is s. 55.  For the avoidance of doubt thissection	 declares that a member of the scheduled  castes  orscheduled tribes shall not be disqualified to hold the	seatnot reserved for members of those castes or tribes if he  isotherwise qualified to439hold  such seat under the Constitution and the Act.  If	 theappellant's  contention is upheld then the provisions of  s.55 would be inapplicable to a member of the scheduled  tribesolely	because he has made the. prescribed  declaration  inhis  nomination	 form in order to claim the benefit  of	 theconcession of the reserved seat in his constituency.  We seeno  justification  for	adopting  such	an  artificial	 andrestricted  construction  of s. 55.  In our opinion  s.	 55,like  s.  54(4),  is  consistent  with	the  other  relevantprovisions of the Constitution and the Act.  A member of thescheduled tribe is entitled to contest for the reserved seatand  for  that purpose he can and must make  the  prescribeddeclaration;  but it does not follow that because he  claimsthe benefit of the reserved seat and conforms to the  statu-tory  requirement  in  that behalf,  he	 is  precluded	fromcontesting the election, if necessary, for the general seat.Once   it  is  realised	 that  the  election  is  from	 theconstituency as a whole and not by reference to two separateand distinct Beats there would be no difficulty in acceptingthe  view  taken by the returning officer when	he  declaredrespondent I to have been duly elected for the general seat. It is true that some articles of the Constitution and	somesections  of  the  Act refer to	 seats	in  connection	withelection  to  the House of the People.	For  instance,	whenArt.  81 (2) (b) provides for the same ratio throughout	 theState  between the population of each constituency  and	 thenumber of seats allotted to it, it does refer to seats,	 butin the context the use of the word " seats " was inevitable.Similarly Art. 84 which lays down the qualification for	 themembers	 of Parliament begins by saying that a person  shallnot  be	 qualified  to	be chosen " to	fill  a	 seat  "  inParliament  unless he satisfies the tests prescribed by	 itscls. (a), (b) and (c).	Here again the expression " to	filla  seat " had to be used in the context.  The  same  commentcan be made about the use of the word " seat " in Arts.	 101(2) and in 330.	 There is no doubt that when a candidate  isduly  elected  from  any constituency to the  House  of	 thePeople	he  fills  a  seat  in	the  House  as	an   electedrepresentative of the said constituency;440and so the expression " filling the seat " is naturally usedwhenever the context so requires. The position in regard to the sections of the Act which usethe  word  "  seat " or the expression "fill  the  seat"  isexactly similar.  Section 32 of the Act says that any personmay  be	 nominated as a candidate for election	to  "fill  aseat" if he is qualified in that behalf.  This section	doesnot mean that the nomination of a person as a candidate	 forelection  is  for  a  seat;  such  nomination  is  for	 theconstituency.	After  the  election  is  over	the  electedcandidate  is qualified to fill a seat in the House  of	 thePeople to which he is elected.	It is in that sense that theexpression  "  a candidate for election to fill a  seat"  isused in this section.  The use of the same expression in ss.33(2), 53(2), 54 and 55 bears the same interpretation.	 Theuse  of	 the said expression or the reference to  "seat"  insome of the articles of the Constitution or the sections  ofthe Act does not, therefore, mean that election to the Houseof the People from a double-member constituency is held	 notfor the constituency as a whole but by reference to the	 twoseats.There  is.  no	doubt  that in	the  case  of  double-memberconstituencies	recognised political parties  usually  adopttwo  candidates, one for the general seat and the other	 forthe  reserved  seat;  and  it does  appear  that  under	 therelevant  statutory order issued by the Election  Commissionthe  symbol reserved for the party is allotted to both	suchcandidates with the only difference that the symbol allottedto  the scheduled caste or the scheduled tribe candidate  ofthe  party is the particular symbol enclosed within a  thickblack circle.  This order has been issued for convenience inorder  to  enable the very large number	 of  illiterate	 anduneducated voters to identify the political affiliations  ofthe  candidates	 for  election; and to	show  which  of	 thecandidates are eligible for the reserved seat; but the	saidorder  cannot affect the nature of the election nor does  itpurport	 to do so.  Similarly a candidate who has  made	 theprescribed   declaration  under	 s.  33	 may  withdraw	 hiscandidature  under  s.	37 which would mean that  he  is  nolonger contesting any seat in the441constituency;  but that again cannot justify  the  inferencethat  his candidature was in regard to a reserved  seat	 forwhich election was separately intended to be held.  In fact,in   regard   to  a  double-member   constituency   electionrecognises  no	compartments  at  all;	it  is	one  generalelection with reservation of seats; that is all. It was then contended by the appellant that even if it	 maybe open to a member of the scheduled tribe to seek  electioneither for the reserved seat or failing that for the generalseat he ought to file two. nomination papers in that behalf.In  our opinion this contention is not wellfounded.   It  isconceded that there is no provision for the presentation  oftwo  nomination papers for two different seats in  the	sameconstituency.	 Indeed	  such	an   assumption	  would	  beinconsistent with the basic character of the election from adouble-member constituency.  In our opinion, the true  posi-tion is that a member of a scheduled caste or tribe does notforego his right to seek election to the general seat merelybecause	 he avails himself of the additional  concession  ofthe  reserved seat by making the prescribed declaration	 forthat  purpose.	 The claim of eligibility for  the  reservedseat does not exclude the claim for the general seat; it  isan additional claim; and both the claims have to be  decidedon  the	 basis that there is one election from	the  double-member constituency.In  this  connection we may refer by way of analogy  to	 theprovisions   made  in  some  educational  institutions	 anduniversities   whereby	in  addition  to  the	prizes	 andscholarships awarded on general competition amongst all	 thecandidates,  some prizes and scholarships are  reserved	 forcandidates  belonging  to  backward  communities.   In	suchcases,	though	the  backward candidates  may  try  for	 thereserved  prizes  and scholarships, they are  not  precludedfrom  claiming	the  general  prizes  and  scholarships	  bycompetition  with  the	rest of	 the  candidates.   We	are,therefore,  satisfied  that  the High  Court  was  right  inrejecting the appellant's contention that respondent 1 couldnot have been validly elected56442for the general seat from the constituency of Parvatipuram.That  takes us to the alternative contention raised  by	 theappellant  against the validity of respondent 1's  election.That  contention  is that respondent I had ceased  to  be  amember	of the scheduled tribe at the material time  becausehe had become a kshatriya.  In dealing with this  contentionit  would  be  essential  to bear  in  mind  the  broad	 andrecognized  features  of the hierarchical  social  structureprevailing amongst the Hindus.	It is not necessary for	 ourpresent purpose to trace the origin and growth of the  castesystem. amongst the Hindus. it would be enough to state thatwhatever may have been the origin of Hindu castes and tribesin ancient times, gradually castes came to be based on birthalone.	 It is wellknown that a person who belongs by  birthto a depressed caste or tribe would find it very  difficult,if  not impossible, to attain the status of a  higher  casteamongst	 the  Hindus by virtue of his  volition,  education,culture	 and status.  The history of social reform  for	 thelast century and more has shown how difficult it is to breakor even to relax the rigour of the inflexible and  exclusivecharacter of the caste system.	It is to be hoped that	thisposition  will change, and in course of time  the  cherishedideal  of casteless society truly based on  social  equalitywill  be attained under the powerful impact of the  doctrineof   social   justice  and  equality   proclaimed   by	 theConstitution  and sought to be implemented by  the  relevantstatutes and as a result of the spread of secular  educationand the growth of a rational outlook and of proper sense  ofsocial	values; but at present it would be  unrealistic	 andutopian	 to  ignore the difficulties which a member  of	 thedepressed  tribe or caste has to face in claiming  a  higherstatus	amongst his coreligionists.  It is in the  light  ofthis  background that the alternative plea of the  appellantmust be considered.The  evidence  adduced by respondent I shows  that  all	 thedocuments from 1885 to 1928 consistently described him as  aMukka  Dora  or	 a  member  of	the  scheduled	tribe.	 Theappellant has, however, produced documentary evidence  whichindicates that from 1928443onwards	 respondent 1 has described himself and the  membersof  his	 family as belonging to the kshatriya  caste.	Oralevidence  led  by  the appellant is intended  to  show	thatrespondent 1 has for some years past adopted the customs andthe rituals of the kshatriya caste.  It shows that marriagesin  the family of respondent I are celebrated as they  wouldbe  amongst  the kshatriyas, and homa is performed  on	suchoccasions.  It is also attempted to be shown that the familyof  respondent	 is  connected by marriage  ties  with	somekshatriya families, that a Brahmin priest officiates at	 thereligious ceremonies performed by respondent 1, and that  hewears a sacred thread.	The High Court has held that even ifthe  documentary and oral evidence adduced by the  appellantis  accepted  at  its  face value, it  falls  far  short  ofestablishing   his  plea  that	respondent   had  become   akshatriya  at  the  material time.  The	 caste-status  of  aperson	 in  the  context  would  necessarily  have  to	  bedetermined  in the light of the recognition received by	 himfrom the members of the caste into which he seeks an  entry.There  is  no evidence on this point at	 all..	Besides	 theevidence produced by the appellant merely shows some acts byrespondent 1 which no doubt were intended to assert a higherstatus;	 but  unilateral acts of this  character  cannot  beeasily	taken to prove that the claim for the higher  statuswhich the said acts purport to make is established.  That isthe  view which the High Court has taken and in our  opinionthe   High  Court  is  absolutely  right.    Therefore	 thealternative plea made by the appellant cannot succeed. In the result the appeal fails and is dismissed with  costsin favour of respondent 1.KAPUR  J.- I regret I am unable to agree with  the  judgmentprepared  by my learned brother Gajendragadkar and  I  shallproceed to give my reasons for my dissent. In  an election for Parliament the candidate asks  for	 thevotes  of the electors by offering himself for a seat  in  aparliamentary constituency and it is a fundamental principleof  elections  that the. voters exercise their	suffrage  infavour of a candidate who is standing444for  a	particular  seat  in a single or  in  a	 two  memberconstituency.  The language used in the Constitution as wellas  in	the Election Laws tends to show	 that  the  electionthough in a constituency is for the filling of a seat and itis  for	 the  filling  of that seat that  the  voters  in  aconstituency exercise their right to vote.  The Constitutionitself	shows that the election is for filling a seat  in  aconstituency.The  scheme  of the Constitution itself when it	 deals	withParliament  and election to Parliament supports	 this  view.Parliament, its composition and qualification for membershipof Parliament are dealt with in Chapter 11 of Part V of	 theConstitution.  Article 81 deals with the composition of	 theHouse of the People.  Sub-cl. (a) of cl. (1) of Art. 81 laysdown that there shall be not more than 500 Members chosen bydirect election from territorial constituencies and not morethan 20 Members to represent Union territories.	 Clause	 (2)of  Art. 81 provides that to each State shall be allotted  acertain	 number of seats in the House of the People in	suchmanner	that the ratio between the number and population  ofthe  State  is	the  same for all  States  and	sub-cl.	 (b)provides  that the State shall be divided  into	 territorialconstituencies	in  such manner that the ratio	between	 thepopulation  of	each constituency and the  number  of  seatsallotted to it is the same throughout the State.  Article 84provides  for the qualifications of persons to be chosen  tofill  a	 seat in Parliament and in el. (c) it is  laid	downthat  the qualifications shall be such as may be  prescribedby an Act of Parliament. Part XV deals with Elections.	Under Art. 324 there is	 onegeneral	 electoral roll for every  territorial	constituencyand there is no exclusion from such roll on the ground	onlyof  religion,  race,  caste,  creed, sex  or  any  of  them.Article	 327  confers  on  Parliament  the  power  to	makeprovision  with respect to elections to Legislatures.	PartXVI  of the Constitution make special provision relating  tocertain classes and under Art. 330 seats are reserved in theHouse  of  the	People for Scheduled  Castes  and  ScheduledTribes	and it also provides for the proportion	 that  theseseats shall bear to the445total  number  of  seats  allotted  to	any  State  and	 thereservation of seats and special representation are to ceaseafter  10 years (Art. 334).  These provisions show that	 theemphasis  is  on seats.	 The number seats is fixed  so	alsoreserved  seats and election is to fill a seat and for	thatpurpose	 qualifications	 of  candidates	 are  prescribed  byParliamentary legislation.A  perusal of those various articles mentioned	above  showsthat  there  is	 no separate electoral	roll  and  that	 theelections  are on the basis of joint  electorate.   Althoughthere is reservation of seats for the Scheduled castes thereis  no exclusion of - Scheduled Castes or  Scheduled  Tribesfrom what are called general seats and every citizen withoutany consideration of caste, creed or sex is entitled to voteas  well  as  stand for election provided  he  is  otherwisequalified.  The reservation of	seats was a concession givento  the Scheduled Castes and Tribes because of their  socialand  educational  backwardness	and it had to  have  only  atemporary  existence and it must be conceded  that  althoughthere is a reservation of a certain number of seats for	 theScheduled  Castes and Tribes the members of these castes  ortribes are not excluded from contesting general seats. In order to carry out the intention of the Constitution  inregard to elections two Acts were enacted by the Parliament.The  Representation  of	 People's Act, 1950,  (43  of  1950)(hereinafter called the 1950 Act) and the Representation  ofPeople's  Act  1951, (43 of 1951), (hereinafter	 called	 the1951  Act).  The object of the 1950 Act was to	provide	 forallocation  of seats and delimitation of constituencies	 forelection  and the object of the 1951 Act was to provide	 forthe  conduct of elections to the Houses of  Parliament	etc.and the qualifications and disqualifications for membership.In  s. 2(f) of the 1950 Act a Parliamentary constituency  isdefined	 as  a	constituency provided  for  the	 purpose  ofelection to the House of the People.  In Part II of that Actprovision  is made for the allocation of seats in the  Houseof the People and for reservation of seats in that House forScheduled Castes and Tribes for filling up of seats in	thatHouse and all these provisions446show  that the seats in the House of the People allotted  tothe  various States have to be filled by  direct  elections.It is significant that in all these provisions the word usedis 'seat' and the election is to fill a-seat.  Coming to the 1951 Act, election is defined in s. 2(d)  tomean an election to fill a seat or seats in either House  ofParliament........... In s. 2(e) an elector means the personwhose	name  is  entered  in  the  electoral  roll   of   aconstituency.	Section	 4  of the 1951 Act  lays  down	 thequalifications for membership of the House of the People anda  person is not qualified to be chosen to fill	 a  reservedseat in the House unless he is a member of a Scheduled Casteor  Tribe  and	he  is	an  elector  for  any  Parliamentaryconstituency.	In  the	 case of any  other  seat  the	onlyqualification  required	 is  that  he is  an  elector  in  aParliamentary  constituency.  Part V of 1951 Act deals	withnomination  of candidates.  Section 31 provides	 for  publicnotice	of elections and s. 32 for nomination of  candidatesfor election.  Under this section no person may be nominatedas  a  candidate for election to fill a seat  unless  he  isqualified  to  fill  that  seat.   Section  33	deals	withpresentation of nomination papers and the requirements for avalid  nomination.   Under  sub-s. (1)	a  nomination  papercompleted  in  the prescribed form and	signed	as  requiredunder  that provision has to be presented to  the  ReturningOfficer	 and  under sub-s. (2) where in a  constituency	 anyseat is reserved the candidate is not qualified to be chosento  fill  that seat unless his nomination papers  contain  adeclaration by him specifying the caste or tribe to which hebelongs	 and sub-s. (6) provides that a candidate  can	filemore  than  one nomination paper for election  in  the	sameconstituency.	Under  s.  34 for  a  valid  nomination	 forelection  a  deposit  has to be made which in  the  case  ofmembers	 of  Scheduled Castes or Tribes is Rs.	250  and  inother cases Rs. 500.  The contention raised on behalf of the appellant was	thatthese  various	provisions  of the 1951 Act  show  that	 theelection  is for filling a seat and therefore when a  memberof the Scheduled Caste or Tribe contests an election he	 hasto make a choice as to which seat he is447contesting.   There is no prohibition against  his  standingfor election for the general constituency but if he wants todo  so	he  has to indicate to the electors that  he  is  sostanding  because when the electors vote they vote  for	 theelection of the candidate to that particular seat and to  noother.	This is made further clear by the fact that only onevote  out  of the two which every elector has the  right  tocast can be polled in favour of one candidate.   Every  candidate has to have a symbol the  necessity	 forwhich  arises  because	of the	illiteracy  of	the  generalelectorate.  Each party has allotted to it a symbol.  In thepresent case the successful candidate Mr. Dippala Suri	Dorawas  standing  for  the	 reserved  seat	 on  behalf  of	 theSocialist  Party and had been allotted the symbol of a	treewhich was his party symbol.  In the case of a reserved	seatthe  distinguishing  feature is the black circle  round	 thesymbol	so that the electors would know where to cast  theirvote  in the case of a Scheduled Caste or  Tribe  candidate.It  is	true  that  the Form 2A	 is  the  same	whether	 thecandidate  is contesting a reserved seat or a  general	seatbut in the case of a person contesting a reserved seat thereis  a  further	declaration to be made that  he	 belongs  toScheduled  Caste or Tribe.  It is also true that in Form  3Awhen notice of nomination is given the Form used is the samefor  both  the	seats but in column (6)	 of  this  Form	 theparticulars of the caste or tribe are to be given presumablyto show which of the candidates belongs to a Scheduled Casteor  Tribe  otherwise indicating the  caste  is	meaningless.Similarly  in  Form  7A	 which is  for	the  final  list  ofcontesting candidates after withdrawals have taken place thenames of candidates are given along with their addresses andsymbols allotted to them but candidates belonging to membersof  the	 Scheduled  Castes or Tribes  are  distinguished  byseparate  special  marks  against their	 names.	  All  thesedistinguishing features have been provided so that  electorswhen  they cast votes for the various candidates know  whichof  them  is  contesting  the reserved	seat  and  which  iscontesting the general seat.  If that is not the object	 thegiving of the caste would be meaningless, if not against theideal of castelessness,448it was contended that s. 32 only deals with nominations	 forelection  to  fill  a seat but it has  nothing	to  do	withqualifications which are laid down in s. 33 and that sub-ss.(2)  and  (6) of s. 33 showed that the election	 was  for  aconstituency  and not for a seat but this  argument  ignoresthe  definition of election which means election to  fill  aseat   and  therefore  where  the  word	  'election'  in   aconstituency  is used it is to be construed as	election  tofill  a seat in a constituency.	 Besides sub-s. 2 of  s.  33makes  it clear that a candidate cannot be qualified  to  bechosen	to fill a reserved seat in a constituency unless  hemakes a particular declaration.	 The emphasis is again on  aseat.  It is true that a candidate has to make a deposit fordue  nomination	 for election from a constituency  but	hereagain the word 'election' must be read as election to fill aseat  from a constituency.  These various sections  indicatetherefore  and	particularly  the  definition  of  the	wordelection  in s. 2(d) of the 1951 Act that when	a  candidateoffers himself for election in a constituency he does so  tofill a particular seat in a constituency. At a pole every elector can cast one vote in favour of	 onecandidate  and	another	 in  favour  of	 another.   It	 wascontended  that it was open to an elector to cast  both	 hisvotes in favour of the two candidates standing for a generalseat or the two candidates for the reserved seat or one	 forthe  general seat and the other for reserved seat  and	thatthere  was no law which enjoins an elector to cast one	votefor  the general seat and the other for the  reserved  seat.But this will lead us nowhere because if there are only fourcandidates as they were in the present case two belonging toScheduled  Castes  or  Tribes and  two	non-Scheduled  Castecandidates  then the voter who casts both his votes one	 forone  Scheduled Caste and the other for the other or one	 forthe  non-Scheduled  Caste and the other for the	 other	non-Scheduled  Caste candidate would be wasting his votes.	 Onehas to presume that the elector when he takes the trouble ofgoing to the polling booth and to vote is not going to wastehis votes.449In the present case the party which set up Mr. Dippala	SuriDora  set  him	up as a candidate for  the  Scheduled  Casteconstituency  which is clear from the application on  behalfof  the party setting him up.  The final list of  candidatesfor  Parliament Ext.P3(c) also shows that Mr.  Dippala	SuriDora was a candidate -for the reserved seat in	Parvatipuramdouble-member constituency. - The nomination papers filed byhim also show that he was being nominated for election	fromthe Parvatipuram reserved parliamentary constituency.	Thusas far as Mr. Dippala Suri Dora was concerned he had made itquite  clear  to the electorate that he	 was  seeking  theirsuffrage for filling a reserved seat in the constituency andin  this  view of the matter as far as he and  the  electorswere concerned the contest was for the reserved seat and notthe  general seat and the people voted for him	for  fillingthe reserved seat and not the general seat. Counsel for the respondent Mr. Dippala Suri Dora  submittedthat  the  mere fact that respondent  filed  his  nominationpapers	in  a particular manner does not  give	a  differentinterpretation	to the various provisions of the law and  ifunder  the law a nomination like that of the respondent	 Mr.Dippala	 Suri Dora was a nomination for both the  seats	 themere fact that he had filled his form differently would makeno  difference.	  This contention is correct but as  I	haveindicated  above  the  election is to fill  a  seat  in	 theconstituency  and the nomination must be taken to fill	thatseat and no, other. Reliance  was next placed on ss. 53, 54 and 55 of the	1951Act  to	 support  the  case put forward	 on  behalf  of	 therespondent Mr. Dippala Suri Dora.  No doubt in sub-s.(4)  ofs.  54	it is laid down that in a case where the  number  ofcontesting  candidates	qualified to be chosen to  fill	 thereserved seat exceeds the number of such seats and the totalalso  exceeds the total number of seats to be  filled,	thenafter  the  poll  has been  taken  the	qualified  candidatereceiving the largest number of votes for the reserved	seathas  to be declared elected and then such of  the  remainingcandidates as have secured the largest number of votes	haveto be declared57450elected to fill the remaining seats and there is an  illust-ration	added to the section which supports the case of	 therespondent.   But  in  view  of s.  8  of  the	DelimitationCommission   Act,   1952,   which   makes   provisions	 forreadjustments  and  delimitations  it  is  doubtful  if	 theprovisions  of s. 54(4) retain their efficacy.	Under  s.  8cl.(2)	 of  Delimitation  Act	it  is	provided  that	 allconstituencies	have to be single member  constituencies  ortwo member constituencies and wherever practicable seats maybe reserved for Scheduled Caste or Tribe in a single  memberconstituency  but in every two member constituency one	seathas  to	 be  reserved for Scheduled Caste  or  Tribe.	Thisprovision  destroys  the effect of s. 54.  If  in  a  singlemember constituency a seat can be reserved which means	thatonly a Scheduled Caste candidate can be elected to that seatthe  effect  of	 reservation of seat in	 the  double  memberconstituency  will  also  be  that  when  a  member  of	 theScheduled  Caste offers himself for election to	 a  reservedseat  he can be elected only to that seat and to  no  other.This is also supported by the definition of electoral rightsin  s. 79 of the 1951 Act which is defined as a right  of  aperson	to  stand  or  not to stand as	a  candidate  at  anelection,  i.e., an election to fill a seat in either  Houseof  Parliament.	 The electoral right which a citizen has  isto  stand  for	election to fill a  seat  and  a  successfulcandidate  is  one who is elected by  securing	the  largestnumber of votes cast for that seat.  This necessarily  leadsto the conclusion that the respondent Mr. Dippala Suri	Dorawho  offered  himself for election to fill a  reserved	seatcould  only be elected to that seat and not to	the  generalseat. The  next contention raised on behalf of the appellant	 wasthat  if a member of the Scheduled Caste or Tribe  wants  tocontest both the seats, i.e., general and reserved he  wouldhave to file two nomination papers and pay two deposits.  Inview  of what has been said above and in view of ss. 32	 and33 and the definition of the word ' election' such candidatehas  to file two nomination papers one for the general	seatand  the  other	 for  the  reserved  seat  setting  out	 thenecessary qualifications which are required under the law451Similarly he will have to make two deposits under s.   34for the same reason. A question of some importance has been raised as to whethera  member of Scheduled Caste or Scheduled Tribe can  by	 hisown act transform himself into different and higher.. caste.That depends upon the view one takes of the caste system andwhether	 cast  is  dependent upon birth or it  varies  as  aconsequence  of Guna, Karma and Subhavana that is  merit  onqualities, actions and character.  In Hinduism caste had itsorigin in vocation and was not dependent upon birth.   Birthas  the sole criterion of caste is a much later	 developmentand caste became rigid and hereditary when vocations  becamehereditary.   Caste  was  nothing but  division	 of  labour.There  is  a  high authority to support	 the  view  that  inHinduism caste was dependent upon actions and not on  birth.In Bhagwat Gita in the fourth Discourse it is stated:	      "The  four  castes  were	created	 by  me	  in	      accordance  with their aptitude  and  actions;	      know  me the author of these castes, though  I	      am actionless and inexhaustible."There are Verses in the Mahabharta also which go to  supportthis.  One such Verse is given as follows:-	      "	 Truth,	 Charity, fortitude,  good  conduct,	      gentleness,  austerity  and  compassion-he  in	      whom  these, are observed is a  Brahmana.	  If	      these marks exist in a Sudra and are not found	      in a twice-born, the Sudra is not a Sudra	 nor	      the  Brahmana a Brahmana" (Teaching  given  by	      Yudhisthira)	      Even in Bhagwata Purana it is stated:-	      " One becomes a Brahmana by his deeds and	 not	      by  his family or birth; even a Chandala is  a	      Brahmana, if he is of pure character".In the Chandogya Upanisad there is the interesting  incidentof  Satyakama who was raised to the position of	 a  Brahmanabecause he had spoken the truth.  Thus it was his  characterand not his birth which deter. mined his caste.	 Amongst theHindus	many  have  raised themselves  to  the	position  ofBrahmana by their good qualities and one such instance is ofSage452Matanga who was a Chandala.  Vishva Mitra was a Kshtriya andbecame a Brahman.  Hinduism might have become static at	 onestage  but its modern history shows that this is not so	 nowand  it would not be wrong to say that caste in Hinduism  isnot  dependent upon birth but on actions.  The whole  theoryof  karma  is  destructive  of the  -claim  of	caste  beingdependent upon birth. In  my	 opinion Mr. Dippala Suri Dora had  by	his  actionsraised	himself	 to the position of Kshtriya and he  was  nolonger a member of the Scheduled Caste or Tribe and on	thatground also his election cannot be supported. I would therefore allow this appeal, set aside the order ofthe  High-Court	 and  restore that  of	the  Tribunal.	 Theappellant will be entitled to costs of this Court as well asof the Courts below.			   ORDER.In view of the majority judgment of the Court the appeal  isdismissed with costs in favour of Respondent No. 1.			Appeal dismissed.