PETITIONER:THE DELHI CLOTH AND GENERAL MILLS LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:KUSHAL BHANDATE OF JUDGMENT:10/03/1959BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1960 AIR  806		  1960 SCR  (3) 227 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1961 SC 860	 (15) RF	    1965 SC 155	 (9) R	    1969 SC  30	 (6) R	    1988 SC2118	 (5)ACT:Industrial   Dispute-Dismissal	of  employees	by   enquirycommittee   pending  trial  in	 Criminal   Court-Subsequentacquittal  of  the, employee--Jurisdiction  of	Tribunal  torefuse	approval of dismissal-Industrial Disputes  Act	1947(XIV Of 1947), s. 33(2), proviso.HEADNOTE:The  appellant	company served a charge-sheet  on  the	res-pondent	 who was one of its employees alleging that  he	 hadstolen	the cycle of the company's Head Clerk.	 A  criminalcase relating228to the theft was pending against him then.  He was asked  toshow  cause why he should not be dismissed  for	 misconduct,and as his explanation was unsatisfactory a certain date wasfixed  for  enquiry.   The respondent  appeared	 before	 theenquiry committee but refused to participate in the  enquiryby  answering  questions put to him as he did  not  want  toproduce	 any  defence  till the matter was  decided  by	 theCourt.	 The  company,however,after completing	the  enquirydirected the dismissal of the respondent on the ground	thatmisconduct  had	 been  proved  against	him.   The   companythereafter  made  an  application  under  s.  33(2)  Of	 theIndustrial  Disputes  Act  to the  Industrial  Tribunal	 forapproval  of  the  disciplinary	 action	 taken	against	 therespondent.  In the meantime the respondent was acquitted bythe Criminal Court.  'The judgment of the Criminal Court wasproduced  before the tribunal which refused to	approve	 theorder  of  dismissal of the respondent.	 On  appeal  by	 thecompany by special leave :Held, that the principles of natural justice do not  requirethat an employer must wait for the decision of the  CriminalTrial  Court  before taking disciplinary action	 against  anemployee.Shri  Bimal Kanta Mukherjee v. Messrs.	 Newsman's  PrintingWorks, (1956) L.A.C. 188, approved.If  a case is of a grave nature involving questions of	factand  law which are not simple it would be advisable for	 theemployer  to await the decision of the Criminal Trial  Courtbut in a simple case like the present the tribunal erred  innot  granting  approval	 under S. 33(2)	 of  the  IndustrialDisputes Act.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 88 of 1959.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedMay 6, 1958, of the Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, in 0. P. No.54 of 1958.M.C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, S. N.  Andley,J. B. Dadachanji, Rameshwar Nath andP.   L.	 Vohra, for the appellant. Janardan Sharma, for	 therespondent.1960.  March 10.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byWANCHOO,  J.-This  is  an  appeal by  special  leave  in  anindustrial  matter.  The appellant is a company carrying  onthe manufacture of textiles.  The respondent Kushal Bhan wasin the employ of the company as a peon.	 It appears that thecycle  of Ram Chandra, Head Clerk of the Folding  Departmentwas  stolen on August 24, 1957.	 The matter was reported  tothe  police.  Sometime later, the cycle was  recovered	fromthe  railway  station cycle -stand at the  instance  of	 therespondent who took the police there and picked out229the  stolen  cycle from among 50/60 cycles  standing  there.This  matter  was apparently brought to the  notice  of	 thecompany	 in  October 1957 and thereupon a  charge-sheet	 wasserved	on the respondent to the effect that he	 had  stolenthe  cycle  of	Ram Chandra, Head Clerk, that  it  had	beenrecovered  at  his  instance and that a	 criminal  case	 waspending	 against him with the police.  He was asked to	showcause  why he should not be dismissed for  misconduct.	 Therespondent  submitted his explanation on October  13,  1957.As  his explanation was unsatisfactory, November  14,  1957,was  fixed for enquiry.	 The respondent appeared before	 theenquiry	 committee but stated that as the case	was  pendingagainst him, he did not want to produce any defence till thematter was decided by the court.  He further stated that  hedid  not  want	to  take part in the  enquiry  and  was	 notprepared to give any answers to questions put to him.	Whenquestions  were	 put  to him at the enquiry  he	 refused  toanswer them and eventually he left the place.  The  company,however, completed the enquiry and directed the dismissal ofthe  respondent on the ground that the misconduct  had	beenproved	against	 him.  Thereafter an  application  was	madeunder  s.  33(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act, No.  14  of1947,  by  the company to the tribunal for approval  of	 theaction taken against the respondent.  The matter came beforethe  tribunal  on  May	6,  1958.   In	the  meantime,	 therespondent had been acquitted by the criminal court on April8,  1958,  on the ground that the case against him  was	 notfree  from doubt.  The copy of the judgment of the  criminalcourt  was  produced before the tribunal and it	 refused  toapprove	 the  order  of dismissal.   The  company  thereuponapplied	 for  special leave to this Court resulting  in	 thepresent appeal.The  main contention on behalf of the appellant	 company  isthat the company was not bound to wait for the result of thetrial in the criminal court and that it could, and did, holda fair enquiry against the respondent, and if the respondentrefused	 to participate in it and left the place  where	 theenquiry was being held, the company could do no more than tocomplete it and come to such conclusion as was230possible on the evidence before it.  Learned counsel for therespondent,  on	 the other hand, urges	that  principles  ofnatural	 justice  require that an employer  should  wait  atleast  for the decision of the criminal trial  court  beforetaking	disciplinary  action,  and  that  inasmuch  as	 theemployer  did  not  do	so in this  case  the  employee	 wasjustified in not taking part in the disciplinary proceedingswhich dealt with the very same matter which was the subject-matter of trial in the criminal court.It is true that very often employers stay enquiries  pendingthe decision of the criminal trial court& and that is  fair;but we cannot say that principles of natural justice requirethat an employer must wait for the decision at least of	 thecriminal  trial	 court	before	taking	action	against	  anemployee.    In	 Shri  Bimal  Kanta  Mukherjee	v.   Messrs.Newsman's Printing Works (1), this was the view taken by theLabour Appellate Tribunal.  We may, however, add that if thecase  is of a grave nature or involves questions of fact  orlaw,  which  are not simple, it would be advisable  for	 theemployer  to await the decision of the trial court, so	thatthe defence of the employee in the criminal case may not  beprejudiced.   The  present,  however, is a case	 of  a	verysimple	nature and so the employer cannot be blamed for	 thecourse	adopted by him.	 In the circumstances, there was  inour  opinion no failure of natural justice in this case	 andif  the	 respondent  did  not choose to	 take  part  in	 theenquiry, no fault can be found with that enquiry.  We are ofopinion that this was a case in which the tribunal  patentlyerred  in  not	granting  approval under  s.  33(2)  of	 theIndustrial  Disputes  Act.  Besides it is apparent  that  inmaking	the order under appeal, the tribunal has  completelylost sight of the limits of its jurisdiction under s. 33(2).We therefore allow the appeal and setting aside the order ofthe  tribunal grant approval to the order of  the  appellantdismissing the respondent.  In the circumstances we pass  noorder as to costs.Appeal allowed.(1)  (1956) L.A.C. 188.231