PETITIONER:COMMISSIONER OF SALES TAX,UTTAR PRADESH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE MODI SUGAR MILLS LTD.DATE OF JUDGMENT:31/10/1960BENCH:SHAH, J.C.BENCH:SHAH, J.C.DAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.GUPTA, K.C. DASAYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALACITATION: 1961 AIR 1047		  1961 SCR  (2) 189 CITATOR INFO : D	    1962 SC 745	 (5) R	    1964 SC1594	 (4,5,6) R	    1966 SC1385	 (11) RF	    1977 SC 513	 (4,5,10) R	    1979 SC1495	 (10) RF	    1986 SC1518	 (8) R	    1989 SC2227	 (37) F	    1990 SC 781	 (26)ACT:Sales	 Tax	Previous   year	  turnover   opted    forassessment--Change  of law and tax rates  during  assessmentyear-If applicable to previous year turnover-Modification inthe  tax  levied-If Permissible-United Provinces  Sales	 TaxAct, 1948 (XV of 1948), ss. 3, 3A, 7, 10 and 22-U.  P. SalesTax Rules, Yule 39-U.  P  Government Notification dated June8, 1948.HEADNOTE:The respondent company was a manufacturer of edible and non-edible	oils  and was registered as a " dealer "  under	 theUnited	Provinces Sales Tax Act, 1948.	Its year of  accountcommenced  on June 1, and ended on May 31 of the next  year.Under  S.  7(1) of the Act read. with rule 39 of  the  rulesframed	thereunder  the respondent exercised the  option  ofbeing  assessed	 on the turnover of the	 previous  year	 andsubmitted its return for the assessment year 1948-49 on	 itstaxable	 turnover of the previous year ending May 31,  1947.The  Sales Tax Officer assessed the turnover in	 respect  ofedible oil at 3 pies per rupee under S. 3, but in respect ofnon-edible oil he held that since a notification dated	June8, 1948, issued under S. 3(A) had come into force from	June9, of the assessment year providing for the levy of tax at 6pies per rupee, the assessee was liable to be assessed at  3pies  per rupee on the turnover during the first 69 days  ofthe  year and at 6 pies per rupee for the remaining days  ofthe year.  On appeal by the assessee the appellate authoritymodified the order and directed that the tax be levied at  aflat  rate  of 3 Pies on both edible  and  non-edible  oils.This  order was set aside by the revising authority and	 theorder of the Sales Tax Officer was restored.  On a directionmade  by the High Court the revising authority	submitted  aquestion for opinion.  The High Court held that the assesseewas  liable  to	 pay the tax at a flat rate of	3  pies	 perrupee.	 On  appeal  by the Commissioner  of  Sales  Tax  byspecial leave,Held (per Hidayatullah, Das Gupta and Sliah, jj.), affirmingthe view of the High Court, that the assessee who elected tosubmit	his return on the turnover of the previous year,  isliable	to be assessed to sales-tax at the rate in force  onthe  first  day	 of  the  year	of  assessment	because	 theliability   arises   on	 that  date,  and   any	  subsequentenhancement of the rate by virtue of a notification under S.3(A) does not alter that liability.A taxing statute must be interpreted in the light of what190is clearly expressed therein and nothing can be implied	 norcan  provisions	 be imported into them so as  to  supply  anassumed	 deficiency.Per S. K. Das and Ayyangar, JJ.-The rate of tax as     appliedby the sales tax officer was in accordance with law.Having regard to the scheme underlying the option to   electfor a previous year turnover conferred by s. 7(1) of the Actthe change in the law and in the rate of tax effected duringthe  assessment	 year  must apply to  the  turnover  of	 theprevious  year	which is deemed to be the  turnover  of	 theassessment  year and sales effected during that period	haveto be assessed at the rate prevailing in that year.Although the notification was prospective and was made	withthe  object  of	 changing the rate of  taxation	 during	 theassessment year, the date mentioned therein did not  preventthe  application  of the assessment year rate to  the  optedprevious year turnover.It is not correct to say that there is absence of  machineryfor reassessment and refund of tax to justify the conclusionthat the basis of the tax liablity for an assessment year isthat  which  prevailed on the first day of that	 year  sincethere are provisions in the Act such as for instance ss.  10and   22   which  provide  for	 reductions,   refunds	 andrectification  of  errors regarding taxation  and  even	 forenhancement of the tax already levied.There was no ambiguity in the notification and the principleof resolving ambiguities in favour of the assessee could notbe applied in this case.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 443 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedApril  25, 1955, of the Allahabad High Court in Civil  Misc.Case No. 26/1951.C.   B.	 Aggarwala, C. P. Lal for G. Ar.  Dikshit,  for	 theappellant.S.   K. Kapur and Mohan Behari Lal, for the respondent.1960.  October 31.  The Judgment of Hidayatullah, Das  Guptaand  Shah, JJ., was delivered by Shah, J., and the  judgmentof Das and Ayyangar, JJ., was delivered by Ayyangar, J.SHAH  J.-Judge (Revisions) exercising authority under s.  11of  the United Provinces Sales Tax Act XV of 1948 drew up  astatement of case and referred to191the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad the follow-question :"  Whether the assessee, who is a manufacturer and a  dealerof non-edible oils and who elected the previous year as	 thebasis  of his assessment in the assessment year 1948-49,  isliable	to be assessed at the flat rate of 3 pies per  rupeeon  the	 whole	of the turnover of  the	 previous  year,  orwhether	 he is liable to be assessed at the rates of 3	piesper  rupee  and	 6 pies per rupee on  the  turnover  of	 theprevious  year	in proportion to the two  periods  from	 1stApril to 8th June, 1948, and from 9th June, 1948 to the 31stMarch, 1949 ?"The High Court answered the question as follows:"  The	applicant  company  is liable to  pay  tax  for	 theassessment year 1948-49 on the turnover of the previous yearin respect of sales of non-edible oils at the flat rate of 3pies per rupee."Against	 the order of the High Court recording	its  answer,this appeal with special leave is preferred.The facts which give rise to the appeal are brieflythese :The Modi Food Products Co., Ltd.-hereinafter referred to  as" the assessee ", manufactures oils edible and non-edible inits  factory at Modinagar, District Meerut, State  of  UttarPradesh.  The assessee is registered as a "dealer" under theUnited	Provinces Sales Tax Act XV of 1948.  The  assessee'syear  of  account commences on June 1, and ends on  May	 31,next year.  For the year of account 1946-47, the  assessee'ssales  of  edible  and	non-edible  oils  amounted  to	 Rs.63,02,849-7-7.	 The U. P. Legislature enacted	with  effectfrom April 1, 1948, the United Provinces Sales Tax Act XV of1948  providing	 for the levy of a tax on sales	 of  certaincommodities.   This act was amended by Act XXV of 1948	withretrospective  operation from April 1, 1948.  By the Act,  "assessment  year " was defined as meaning the twelve  monthsending	on  March 31 and " previous year "  was	 defined  asmeaning	 the  twelve months ending on the  31st	 March	nextpreceding  the assessment year, or, if the accounts  of	 thedealer had been192made up to a date within the said twelve months	 in  respectof a year ending on any date other than the said 31st  Marchthen,  at the option of the dealer, the year ending  on	 theday  to which his accounts had so been made up. ,Turnover  "was defined as meaning the aggregate of the proceeds of saleby a dealer.  By s. 3, a tax at the rate of 3 pies per rupeeof turnover was, subject to certain exceptions, made payableby every dealer in each assessment year whose turn. over  inthe previous year exceeded Rs. 12,000 or such larger  amountas may be prescribed; the Provincial Government was  howeverauthorised to reduce the rate of tax on any dealer or  classof dealers on the turnover in respect of any goods or  classof goods.  By s. 3-A, the Government of U. P. was authorisedto  introduce  instead	of  the	 multiple  point  scheme  oftaxation provided by s. 3 a single point system of  taxationand by notification to declare that the proceeds of sale  ofany  goods  or class of goods shall not be included  in	 theturnover  of any dealer except to such single point  in	 theseries of sales by successive dealers as may be	 prescribed;and if the Government made such a declaration, the  turnoverof  the dealer in whose turnover the sale of such goods	 wasincluded  was  in respect of such sale to be taxed  at	suchrate  as may be specified not exceeding one anna per  rupee.By  s. 7, every dealer whose turnover in the  previous	yearwas Rs. 12,000 or more was directed to submit such return orreturns	 of his turnover of the previous year  within  sixtydays of the commencement of the assessment year in such formand  verified in such manner as may be prescribed.   By	 theproviso, the Government was authorised to prescribe that anydealer or class of dealers may submit in lieu of the  returnor returns specified in that section, a return or returns ofhis turnover of the assessment year at such intervals as maybe  prescribed.	 Provision was made by the Act	for  appealsagainst	 the  order of assessment and revision	against	 theorder of the appellate authority.  By s. 11, the High  Courtof   Judicature	 at  Allahabad	was  authorised	 to   decidequestions  of  law  raised  in any case	 in  the  course  ofassessment and193referred  to it on a statement of the case drawn up  by	 theRevising  Authority.  By s. 24. the  Provincial,  Governmentwas  invested  with  power to make rules to  carry  out	 thepurposes of the Act and in particular in respect of  certainspecified matters.In exercise of the powers conferred by s. 24 of the Act, theGovernment  of	U. P. framed rules.  Rule 39 of	 the  U.  P.Sales Tax Rules gave to every dealer an option to submit hisreturn of the turnover of the assessment year in lieu of thereturn	of the turnover of the previous year.  A dealer	 whodid  not carry on business during the whole of the  previousyear  had no option, but was bound to submit his  return  ofthe  turnover  of  the assessment year.	 By r.	40,  it	 wasprovided that every dealer who elected to submit a return ofthe turnover of his previous year shall within sixty days ofthe commencement of the assessment year, submit to the SalesTax  Officer a return showing his turnover of  the  previousyear.	By  r. 41, it was provided that every  dealer  whoseestimated  turnover during the assessment year was not	lessthan Rs. 15,000 and who elected to submit his return of suchyear shall before the last day of July, October, January andApril submit to the Sales Tax Officer, a return of his grossturnover  for  the quarters ending June	 30,  September	 30,December 31 and March 31.In  exercise of the authority conferred by s. 3-A which	 wasincorporated  in the Act by Act XXV of 1948, the  Governmentof U. P. issed the following notification :"  In  exercise	 of the powers conferred by s.	3-A  of	 theUnited	Provinces  Sales Tax Act, 1941, as  amended  by	 theUnited	Provinces  Sales  Tax  (Amendment)  Act,  1948,	 theGovernor is hereby pleased to declare that with effect	fromJune  9,  1948,	 the proceeds of sale of  goods	 entered  incolumn 2 of the schedule hereto shall not be included in theturnover of any dealer except at the point in the series  ofsales  by successive dealers mentioned in column  4  thereofunder the circumstances shown in column 3 thereof.(2)  The Governor is further pleased to order that25194as  from  June 9, 1948, the rate of tax in  respect  of	 thecolumn 5  of the schedule hereto.(3)  Every  dealer by or on whose behalf goods mentioned  inthe schedule aforesaid are held at the close of the 8th	 dayof  June,  1948,  shall	 submit	 a statement  showing  thequantity  and price of such stock and of the stock  of	suchgoods held on the 24th day of May, 1948, to the	 appropriateassessing authority by the 30th day of June, 1948."To  this notification was appended a schedule which set	 outthe descriptions of diverse commodities, the  "circumstancesunder Which the turnover was to be calculated " the point oftax and the rate of tax.  Item 14 of the schedule was " oilsof all kinds excluding edible oils but including Vanaspati "and sales thereof by manufacturers in the U. P. were  liableto  tax at the rate of 6 pies per rupee.  By virtue of	thisnotification,  non-edible  oils became liable  to  a  singlepoint  tax as from June 9, 1948, at the time of sale  by  animporter or manufacturer in the United Provinces.The  assessee submitted its return for the  assessment	year1948-49 on its taxable turnover of the previous year  endingon May 31, 1947, to the Sales Tax Officer, Meerut Range.  Onthe  assessee's return, the Sales Tax Officer  assessed	 thetax  at Rs. 1,16,238-12-0, holding that sales of  non-edibleoils  for the first 69 days out of the year of the  turnoverwere  to be taxed at the rate of 3 pies, and sales  for	 theremaining  296 days were to be taxed at the rate of  6	piesper  rupee.   Against  the order passed	 by  the  Sales	 TaxOfficer, Meerut Range, an appeal was preferred to the  Judge(Appeals), Sales Tax, under s. 9 of the Act.  The  appellateauthority  modified the order and directed the	assessee  topay  tax on non-edible oils on the turnover of the  previousyear  at the flat rate of 3 pies per rupee and	reduced	 thetax liability-to Rs. 1,08,477-0-3.  This order of the  Judge(Appeals)  was set aside by the revising authority  and	 theorder  of  the	Sales  Tax  Officer  was  restored.   On,  adirection  made	 by the High Court, the	 revising  authoritydrew up a statement of the case and submitted for opinion  aquestion195which in his opinion arose out of the assessment.  The	HighCourt  re-framed the question as set out  hereinbefore,	 andanswered it in favour of the assessee.By  s.	3 and s. 3-A, which are the charging  sections,	 theliability  to  pay  sales tax in  each	assessment  year  ischarged	 on the total turnover of a dealer.  By s.  7,	readwith  r.  39,  the assessee has the  option  to	 adopt	 theturnover  of the previous year as the taxable  turnover	 forthe year of assessment: and if he does so, he has to  submitwithin sixty days of the commencement of the assessment yearreturns	 showing his turnover for that previous	 year.	 If,however,  the  assessee adopts the turnover in the  year  ofassessment as his taxable turnover, he has to submit returnsbefore the last day of July, October, January and April	 hisgross  turnover	 for each of the four quarters	ending	30thJune, 30th September, 31st December and 31st March.  The taxis  evidently levied in respect of the year of assessment  :it  is not levied in respect of the business carried  on  inthe previous year.  Again, the rate applicable in  assessingthe  tax  is the rate in force in the  year  of	 assessment.That  is  clear from the terms of ss. 3 and  3-A.   But	 thetaxable	 turnover for the year of assessment may, except  incertain	 cases not material for the purpose of this  appeal,at the option of the tax payer be either the turnover of theprevious year or of the year of assessment.  If the assesseeadopts the turnover of the previous year, by the  provisionscontained in s. 3 and s. 7 and rr. 39 and 40, the  liabilityto  pay	 tax  arises  on  the 1st  of  April  and  the	rateapplicable is the rate in force on that date.  The liabilityof  the	 assessee  adopting  the turnover  of  the  year  ofassessment arises by virtue of ss. 3 and 7 and r. 41 at	 theend of each quarter.  When the taxable turnover is based  onthe turnover of the previous year, the tax is assessed on anartificial  turnover not related to the actual sales of	 theyear of assessment: whereas the levy of tax on a return madeon the turnover of the year of assessment is made on  actualsales  of  that year.  The tax paid on the turnover  of	 theprevious year is not related to the actual sales196provision for making adjustments in the liability to  tax onascertainment of the actual turnover at the end of the	yearof assessment.The  Government of the United Provinces had by	notificationdated June 8,1948, altered the rate of tax  in the matter ofvarious	 commodities  including nonedible oils	with  effectfrom  June 9, 1948.  The Sales Tax Officer was right in	 hisview  that  the levy of tax at the altered rate was  not  tooperate	 on sales effected before June 9, 1948.	  Initially,when the liability of the assessee to pay tax on edible oilsfor  the assessment year arose, the rate was  undoubtedly  3pies per rupee on the turnover, and the question which fallsto  be determined is whether by reason of the alteration  ofthe  rate and its incidence in the course of the  year,	 theassessee  became liable to pay tax at the higher rate  on  apart of the turnover of the previous year and if so, on whatbasis.	A tax payer who adopted the previous year's turnoverbad  under s. 7 and r. 40 to submit his return within  sixtydays  of  the commencement of the assessment  year,  and  noprovision for submission of any supplementary returns in thecase  of alteration of rates in the course of the  year	 wasmade  in the Act or the Rules: nor was any  method  providedfor  retrospective modification of an assessment once  made.There  were  under the Act and the Rules  two  distinct	 andclear-cut  schemes  to assess sales tax, (1) where  the	 taxpayer elected to submit his return based on the turnover  ofthe  previous year and (2) where he elected to or was  boundby  law to submit his return on the turnover of the year  ofassessment.   Under these two schemes the points of time  atwhich  liability arose and the turnover on  which  liabilitywas to be assessed were in their nature not identical.	 Thetax payers paying tax under the first scheme paid it on	 theturnover of the previous year and at the rate in force afterthe  end of the period and applicable to it.  The tax  payerpaying	tax  under the second scheme paid tax  in  quarterlyinstallments based on the previous quarter's actual turnoverand  at	 the  rate  or rates prevalent	in  the	 quarter  orapplicable to it.  Was it intended, when alteration was madein the rate of tax197or  its	 incidence  during  the	 course	 of  the  year,	  toassimilate these two schemes of taxation so as to, permit ofa departure from the one to the other ?	 There is no expressprovision  in the Act or in the Rules in that  behalf.	 Nordoes  the notification suggest that it was so intended.	  Inthe case of a dealer who adopts the turnover of the year  ofassessment for purposes of taxation, the application of	 thenotification  altering the rate of tax and the incidence  oftax  does  not	present any  difficulty.   The	notificationenjoins levy of the tax at the altered rate only in  respectof  sales taking place after the fixed date, and  all  saleswhich  preceded	 that date are to be taxed at  the  originalrate.	In the face of the language employed sales  anteriorto  the date specified could not be affected.  The  questionnext  arises:  Is any machinery provided in the Act  or	 theRules	for  projecting	 this  division	 of  the   year	  ofassessment, into the previous year, and for apportioning theturnover  of that year ?  Express provision in	that  behalfthere  is  none	 :  and it is  difficult  to  imply  such  aprovision in the Act.  The dates of commencement and closureof  the previous year of a tax payer may vary  according  tothe system of accounting adopted by the assessee.  The	yearmay  commence from any day of any recognised calendar  year,and  the  year may not consist of 365 days.  The  method  ofantedating  by one year the date on which the alteration  ismade   in   the	 rate  or  incidence  will   be	  manifestlyinappropriate.	 The  method  of division  of  the  turnoverproportionate  to the period of the assessment	year  beforethe alteration of the rate and after such alteration  thoughprospective,   must   be   deemed   to	 have	been	maderetrospectively in the previous year, and on a day which  isremoved from the commencement of the year of account by	 thenumber	of days by which the date of alteration of  rate  isremoved	 from  the commencement of the year  of	 assessment.But the adoption of the turnover of the previous year as thetaxable turnover for the year of assessment is itself  basedon  a fiction and, in the absence of any  express  provisioneither	in the Act or the Rules or even in the	notificationsetting out machinery for such198a  division  of the year, we are unable to  hold  that	thisscheme	of  a fictional division may be projected  into	 theprevious year to make an artificial division of the turnoverfor  imprinting	 thereon the altered rate of  assessment  asfrom  the  date of the division.  Counsel for the  State  ofUttar	Pradesh	  submitted   several	hypothetical   casessuggesting that by refusing to adopt this method of divisionof  the previous year of assessment for the  application  ofthe altered rate, several anomalies may arise in working outthe  liability to tax.	He submitted that a person  who	 wasnot  a manufacturer or an importer of goods included in	 theschedule  to  the notification under s. 3-A may, if  he	 hasadopted	 the  turnover of the previous year as	his  taxableturnover  be liable even though it was the intention of	 theGovernment to absolve him from liability to pay tax.  But  atax  payer  adopting the turnover of the previous  year	 forpayment of tax makes his choice 'voluntarily and subject  tothe  advantages and disadvantages which that step  involves.The  fact  that he may have to pay tax	from  which  personschoosing the alternative method of submitting of return	 maypartially  be exempted, because of an exemption	 granted  inthe  course  of	 the year, may not, in our  judgment,  be  aground	for not giving full effect to the provisions of	 theAct  as	 they  stand.  In  interpreting	 a  taxing  statute,equitable considerations are entirely out of place.  Nor cantaxing	statutes  be  interpreted  on  any  presumptions  orassumptions'.  The court must look squarely at the words  ofthe statute and interpret them.	 It must interpret a  taxingstatute in the light of what is clearly expressed it  Cannotimply  anything	 which	is not expressed  it  cannot  importprovisions  in	the  statutes so as to	supply	any  assumeddeficiency.Section	  18  el.  (c)	of  the	 Act  which   provides	 forproportionate reduction of tax when in the case of a  changeor  discontinuance  taking  place  in  the  course  of	 theassessment  year of a firm which has been assessed for	suchyear  on the turnover of the previous year does not  supportthe contention that an artificial divisions of the  turnoverof the previous year is intended199in cases of alteration of circumstances during the course ofthe assessment year.  It may be noticed that, the  provisionis  limited to changes in or discontinuance of the  businessof a firm, in terms it does not apply to individuals.  It isnot for us to consider why the Legislature has not chosen tomake a similar provision in respect of individuals.  But thefact  that  the Legislature has made  an  express  provisiondealing with changes or discontinuance of business of  firmsin  the course of the assessment year enabling	a  reductionproportionately	 to the tax already paid would be  a  groundindicating that in cases not governed by that provision,  noalteration in the liability was permissible when the taxableturnover was based on the previous year's turnover.It  is not provided that in giving effect to the  alterationof  the rate during the course of the year of assessment  anartificial  division  of the turnover of the  previous	yearshould,	  in  applying	the  altered  rate  be	made.	 TheLegislature  having failed to provide machinery for  workingout   the  liability,  the  attempted	projection   becomesunworkable.  A legal fiction must be limited to the purposesfor which it has been created and cannot be extended  beyondits legitimate field.  The turnover of the previous year  isfictionally made the turnover of the year of assessment:  itis  not	 the  actual or the real turnover  of  the  year  ofassessment.  By the imposition of a different tariff in	 thecourse	of  the	 year, the incidence of	 tax  liability	 maycompetently   be  altered  by  the  Legislature,   but	 foreffectuating  that alteration, the Legislature	must  devisemachinery for enforcing it against the tax payer and if	 theLegislature has failed to do so, the court cannot resort  toa  fiction  which is not prescribed by the  Legislature	 andseek to effectuate that alteration by devising machinery notfound in the statute.We are therefore of the view that the conclusion of the HighCourt  is  correct.   The  appeal  therefore  fails  and  isdismissed with costs.AYYANGAR  J.-We	 regret	 we are unable to  agree   with	 thejudgment just now pronounced.The facts giving rise to this appeal are briefly200these:A	 company  called   The	Modi  Food  Products   Ltd.'(amalgamated with the respondent) which will be referred  tohereinafter  as	 the assessee, was during the years  1946  &1947  a	 manufacturer of and dealer in	vegetable  oils-bothedible	and  non-edible.   During that	year  there  was  nolegislation   imposing	any  tax  on  sales.   The   U.	  P.legislature enacted the U. P. Sales Tax Act in 1948 and	 thestatute	 received  the	assent	of  the	 Governor  and	 waspublished in the official Gazette on June 5, 1948.   Section1  (2)	of the Act enacted that it shall be deemed  to	havecome  into force on April 1, 1948.  The appeal is  concernedwith  the  liability  to  sales-tax under  the	Act  of	 theassessee  company in respect of the sale of oil effected  bythe assessee during the period June 1, 1946 to May 31, 1947,which  was the account-year of the assessee previous to	 thefirst  assessment year under the Act1948-49.  Section  3  ofthe  Act, to quote only the relevant words, as it  stood  atthe material time, enacted :" Section 3. Liability to tax under the Act.  Subject to theprovisions  of this Act, every dealer shall pay on  turnoverin each assessment year a tax at the rate of 3 pies a rupeeProvided that-(i)  the  Provincial Government may, by notification in	 theofficial Gazette, reduce the rate of tax on the turnover  ofany dealer or class of dealers or on the turnover in respectof any goods or class of goods;(ii) a	dealer whose turnover in the previous year  is	lessthan  Rs. 12,000 or such larger amount as may be  prescribedshall  not be liable to pay the tax under this Act  for	 theassessment year."By the U. P. Sales Tax Amendment Act, 1948 (Act XXV of 1948)this proviso was slightly modified and s.    3(A)	 wasinserted in the Act reading as follows:"  Section 3-A.	 Single point taxation. (1)  Notwithstandinganything  contained in Section 3, the Provincial  Governmentmay,  by notification in the official Gazette, declare	thatthe  proceeds of sale of any goods or class of	goods  shallnot be included in the turnover of any dealer except at suchsingle point201in the series of      sales by successive dealers as may  beprescribed.(2)If  the Provincial Government makes a  declaration  undersub-section (1) of this Section, it may further declare thatthe  turnover  of the dealer, in whose turnover the sale  ofsuch  goods is included, shall, in respect of such sale,  betaxed  at such rate as' may be specified not  exceeding	 oneanna per rupee if the sale relates to goods specified below.(A list of goods was then set out)and nine pies per rupee if it relates to any other goods."Non-edible oil which is the commodity with the sale of whichthe assessment in the present appeal is concerned is not  inthe list of goods set out in s. 3(A) and would therefore  becovered	 by the residuary clause of the section.  The U.  P.Government  issued the following notification dated June  8,1948, under s. 3(A) of the Act:" In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3-A of	 theUnited	Provinces  Sales-Tax Act, 1948, as  amended  by	 theUnited	Provinces  Sales-Tax  (Amendment)  Act,	 1948,	 theGovernor is hereby pleased to declare that with effect	fromJune  9,  1948,	 the proceeds of sale of  goods	 entered  incolumn 2 of the Schedule hereto shall not be included in theturnover of any dealer except at the point in the series  ofsales  by successive dealers mentioned in column  4  thereofunder the circumstances shown in column 3 thereof.2.   The  Governor is further pleased to order that as	fromJune 9, 1948, the rate of tax in respect of the turnover  ofthe  aforesaid goods shall be as entered in column 3 of	 theSchedule hereto.3.   Every dealer, by or on whose behalf goods mentioned  inthe schedule aforesaid are held at the close of the 8th	 dayof June, 1948, shall submit a statement showing the quantityand price of such stock and of the stock of such goods	heldon  the 24th day of May, 1948, to the appropriate  assessingauthority by the 30th day of June, 1948 ".In the Schedule annexed to this notification, nonedible	 oilof the type dealt with by the assessee was202subject	 to  a	tax  @ 6 pies per  rupee  if  the  same	 wasmanufactured in U. P.Section	 7 of the Act, as it stood at the date	relevant  tothis appeal, enacted :"  Section  7. Determination of turnover and  assessment  oftax.--(1)  Subject  to the provisions of Section  18,  everydealer whose turnover in the previous year is Rs. 12,000  ormore  in a year shall submit such return or returns  of	 histurnover  of  the  previous year within sixty  days  of	 thecommencement  of  the  assessment  year	 in  such  form	 andverified in such manner as may be prescribed:Provided  that the Provincial Government may prescribe	thatany  dealer or class of dealers may submit, in lieu  of	 thereturn	or  returns specified in this section, a  return  orreturns	 of  his  turnover of the assessment  year  at	suchintervals,  in such form and verified in such manner as	 maybe prescribed, and thereupon all the provisions of this	 Actshall  apply  as  if such return or returns  had  been	dulysubmitted under this section.Provided  further  that the assessing authority may  in	 hisdiscretion extend the date for the submission of the  returnby any person or class of persons ".Rules  were framed by Government inter alia under the  powerconferred by the 1st proviso just now set out and by rule 39of  the said rules an option was given to dealers to  submitreturns of their turnover of the assessment year in lieu  ofthe turnover of the previous year.The  assessee exercised the option of being assessed on	 thebasis of the turnover of the previous year under s. 7(1)  ofthe  Act and in respect of first assessment year  after	 theAct came to force-assessment year 1948-49, it filed a returnin respect of the turnover of its previous year June 1, 1946to May 31, 1947.  The total turnover of the assessee  duringthis period was Rs. 63,02,849-7-7.  The Sales Tax Officer byhis  order  dated March 12, 1949, assessed the	turnover  inrespect	 of edible oil at 3 pies per rupee.  As regards	 thesale  of  non-edible oil, the sales-tax	 officer  hold	thatsince the notification set out above under			    203s.   3(A)  had	come into force as and from June  9  of	 theassessment year, the assessee was liable to be assessed @  3pies  per rupee on the turnover during the first 69 days  ofthe year and @ 6 pies per rupee in respect of the  remainingdays of the year and he computed the' tax accordingly.	 Theassessee preferred an appeal to the Judge (Appeals),  MeerutRange,	Meerut, against the order of the Sales-Tax  Officer.This  officer  allowed the appeal of the assessee  and	heldthat  the entire turnover was liable to be taxed only  at  aflat  rate of 3 pies per rupee under s. 3(1) of the  Act  onall  oil sold by the assessee---edible or  non-edible.	 Thereason	assigned for the order was that on the terms of	 thenotification  the  new rate of tax could not be	 applied  tosales effected in the previous year which had been opted forthe  purposes of assessment by the assessee and that  so  toapply it would be tantamount to giving retrospective  effectto  the notification which was contraindicated by the  termsof the notification itself.  The department thereupon  movedthe  Judge  (Revision)	who  accepted  its  contention	 andrestored  the  order of the Sales-tax Officer  applying	 theprovisions  of	the  notification to  the  turnover  of	 theassessee.  There. after the assessee made an application  tothe Judge (Revision) to state a case for the opinion of	 theHigh Court under s. 11 of the Act as to whether the rate  oftax fixed by the notification could be applied to the  salesof  the	 commodity which factually took place on  or  beforeJune  8,  1948.	  This petition having	been  dismissed,  anapplication  was filed before the High Court  for  directingthe  reference	and  on this  being  ordered  the  followingquestion (as reframed by the High Court) was referred to  itfor determination :" Whether the assessee who is a manufacturer and a dealer ofnon-edible  oils  and who elected the previous year  as	 thebasis  of his assessment in the assessment year	 1948-49  isliable	to be assessed at the flat rate of 3 pies per  rupeeon the whole of the turnover of the previous year or whetherhe is liable to be assessed at the rates of 3 pies per rupeeand 6 pies per rupee on the turnover of the previous year inproportion  to the two periods from April 1 to June 8,	1948and from to March 31 1949."204The  learned Judges answered the question in favour  of	 theassessee and held that the notification under s. 3(A)  couldnot  apply  to	determine the rate of  tax  payable  by	 theassessee on his turnover of the previous year.	The  presentappeal is against this answer by the High Court.As the arguments before us proceeded on practically the samelines as before the High Court, it will be convenient if  weset out the reasoning by which the learned Judges upheld theasssessee's  contention that the notification under s.	3(A)was inapplicable to determine the rate of tax payable by it.The grounds were mainly five: (1) The assessee could not  becharged	 at the rates prescribed by the notification  unlessthe  new  rates operated retrospectively; (2) that  s.	3(A)which was introduced into the parent Act (Act XV of 1948) bythe   Amending	Act  XXV  of  1948  was	 not  enacted	withretrospective effect.  Though the charge imposed by s.	3(1)of the Act read with s. 7(1) imposed tax retrospectively  asand  from  April 1, 1948, s. 3(A) did not on  its  terms  sooperate	 as and from that date.	 Hence the liability of	 theassessee which had become fixed under Act XV of 1948, as  itoriginally  stood,  could not be and 'Was not varied  by  s.3(A) and would not therefore be affected by any notificationissued	under  the  last mentioned provision ;	(3)  that  anotification  under  s. 3(A) could  not	 have  retrospectiveeffect since s. 3(A) itself did not operate of its own forceand merely empowered the Government, 'by a notification,  toeffect	changes	 in  the law and  hence	 such  changes	whennotified  could	 not operate as from any date prior  to	 thedate  of the notification ; (4) Section 3(A) which used	 thewords  " in respect of such sales " contemplated  particularsales  taking place after the notification issued  under  itand  hence the notification issued under that section  couldnot  alter the rate of levy in respect of sales anterior  tothe  date  of the notification ; (5) that the terms  of	 thenotification  carried out the general scheme of the Act	 andnegatived retrospective operation and that as on its  langu-age it applied only to sales which took place on or205admittedly effected long prior thereto in the previous	yearthe same could not be affected by the enhanced rate of duty.Before	proceeding further it must be pointed out  that	 thelearned Judges of the High Court were not right in  thinkingthat s. 3(A) was not enacted to operate retrospectively fromthe  commencement of the' parent Act.  Section 1(2)  of	 theSales-tax Amending Act XXV of 1948 which introduced s.	3(A)enacted:"  It (this Act) shall be deemed to have come into force  onthe 1st April, 1948."and  as s. 3(A) was one of the sections	 of this  enactment,it   would  have  effect  from	the  earlier   date.	Thisinadvertent  error,  however, would not affect	the  centralpoint of the reasoning of the learned Judges.Besides elaborating the other points in the judgment of	 theHigh  Court,  learned  Counsel for  the	 respondent  furtherpressed upon us that there was no specific provision in	 theAct for refund or reassessment which would have been presentif  the	 levy  of  a rate  with	 retrospective	effect	werecontemplated  by the Act as applicable to the assessees	 whobad  opted  for	 the "	previous-year-turnover	"  basis  ofassessment.   He  pointed  out that in	the  case  of  thoseassessees  who opted for their being assessed in respect  oftheir  turn.  over  during the	assessment  year,  quarterlyreturns were submitted along with the payment  provisionallyof  the	 tax  due on the basis of  that	 return,  the  finalassessment being completed only after the close of the	yearwhen  the  amount  due for the year was	 ascertained  and  ademand	made  for the balance due after	 adjustment  of	 theamounts	 already  paid during the course of the	 year  (Rule41).   Obviously in their case no difficulty could arise  byreason of any change in the law either in the rate or  basisof  taxation  effected	during	the  year,  as	these  wouldautomatically  be given effect to in the  final	 assessment.If, however, changes made in the rate of tax payable  duringthe  year  were held applicable to those assessees  who	 hadopted	for  the  previous-year-turnover  basis,   necessaryadjustments  could not be made in their assessment for	lackof specific machinery to achieve the same.  From this206he argued that the scheme of the Act was that in the case ofthe  previous-year-turnover assessees, to use  a  convenientphrase, the tax liability had to be determined on the  stateof the law as it prevailed on the 1st day of the  assessmentyear and that it got fixed and crystallised on that date andremained  unaffected   by any changes in  the  law  effectedduring the course of the assessment year.In view of these additional submissions, we consider that itwould  be  convenient  to examine  the	entire	argument  oflearned	 Counsel for the respondent under three	 heads	intowhich they naturally fall: (1) Does the Act, read in conjunction with the Rules framedto give effect to its provisions, contemplate any differencebeing  drawn  between  the basis of the	 tax  liability	 (asdistinct  from	the  quantum  of  the  turnover)  of   thoseassessees who have opted for the previous year turnover	 and" the assessment-year turnover " assessees.(2)  Is	 there any sound basis for the contention  that	 thetax liability of the "previous-year-turnover" assessees getscrystallised  on  the 1st of April of the  assessment  year,with  the result that such assessees are unaffected  by	 anychanges of the law which operate from beyond that date.(3)  If	 the  above  two  questions  are  answered  in	 theaffirmative the construction of the notification dated	June8,  1948, would not fall for consideration, for even  if  onits  language  it  can apply to the  turnover  of  a  periodanterior to its issue, the notification cannot be given sucheffect	since the same would be against the basic scheme  ofthe Act.  If, however, the answer to the above two questionswere  in  the negative, a further point would  arise  as  towhether	  on  the  terms  of  the  notification	 now   underconsideration the same could on its language apply so as  toaffect	the  tax-liability of the  "  previous-year-turnoverassessees.We  shall now proceed to examine these submissions.  On	 thescheme	of U. P. Sales-tax Act, as of every other  sales-taxlegislation  in	 the  other Indian  States,  the  total	 taxliability of an assessee is the resultant207product	 of  two factors: (1) the total of the	proceeds  ofsales  effected during a given period, universally  a  year,from  which  are  deducted  the turnover  of  the  sales  ofcommodities which are exempt from tax; for instance under s.4 of the Act whose provisions will be referred to later; (2)multiplied  by	the  rate of tax applicable  either  to	 theentire turnover or where' different rates are prescribed  onsales  of different articles, such rates in respect of	suchturnover.  The best way to appreciate the scheme  underlyingthe  Act would be to ascertain the position at the time	 theAct was enacted.  It received the assent of the Governor andwas published in the Gazette on June 5, 1948.  Section	1(2)of the Act further enacted that " It shall be deemed to havecome  into force on April 1, 1948 ". Except to that  limitedextent,	 the  Act  is  prospective.  The tax  is  on  the  "turnover  ",  i.e., on the total of the	 sales	proceeds  oftaxable	 sales	and therefore unless there  were  a  taxablesale,  its proceeds would not enter the pool which  goes  bythe  name of " turnover ". As the Act is not  retrospective,the  taxable  turnover would normally be the  total  of	 thesales effected after the enactment became operative, i.	 e.,from  and  after  April	 1,  1948,  but	 for  the  sake	  ofconvenience  of	 assessment, it enacts by s. 7(1),  we	haveextracted  earlier,  a	provision  providing  an  option  todealers	 who have been in business in the year	previous  tothe taxing enactment, to be assessed either on the  turnoverof  the previous year, when owing to the absence of the	 Acttheir  sales were not subject to tax or on the	turnover  ofthe  current year.  But whichever be the  turnover  adopted,the rate of tax or the determination of the particular	saleproceeds whose total constitutes the taxable turnover, i.e.,after the exclusion of the sale proceeds of the	 commoditieslisted	in s. 4, does not vary.	 In other words, though	 thefigure	of turnover might vary between those who have  optedfor  the  one  or the other mode of assessment	due  to	 thevolume of the sales, no difference is maintained in the	 Actas  regards  the incidence of the tax, i.e., either  in	 theprinciple  underlying the computation of the total  turnoveror in208the  rate  or rates applicable to the  sales  of  particulargoods  or  on the total turnover.  This can only be  on	 thepremise	 or  implicit  assumption  that	 the  sales  of	 theprevious  year	are treated by the Act for  the	 purpose  ofcomputing  tax-liability as the sales of the current year  aprojection  forward in point of time.  In other	 words,	 theentire basis underlying the charging provision s. 3(1)	readwith the option provided by s. 7(1) is that the sales of theprevious  year are fictionally treated as the sales  of	 thecurrent	 year for the purpose of the computation of the	 taxliability.   It has to be remembered that in cases like	 thepresent,  during the time when the sales were effected,	 theAct  was  not  in operation and hence  the  sales  were	 nottaxable.  But for the purpose of the imposition of the	tax-liability, it is assumed that the sales are taxable and	 thegoods whose sales become taxable are determined on the basisof the provisions of the Act.  Thus, if in the current	yearcommodities A, B and C are exempt from tax, they are not  tobe included in the turnover of the dealer in respect of	 theprevious year in the case of those who have opted for the  "previous-year-turnover	"  under s. 7(1), and  the  turnoverthus computed is charged at the same rate of tax  applicableto transactions of the current year.So far, therefore, as the express provisions of the Act	 go,no difference is made between the basis of the tax liabilityof the " previous-year-turnover " and the " assessment-year-turnover  " assessees; and though by reason of the terms  ofs.  7(1)  the  quantum	of  the	 turnover  varies  no  othervariation  in  the  law	 applicable  to	 the  two  types  ofassessees is contemplated.  We must therefore start from thepremise that the Act does not contemplate any difference  inthe  incidence of the tax and the quantum of  tax  liabilityflowing	 from the choice of either the " previous-year "  orthe " assessment-year " as the basis of the determination ofthe  turnover.	We should add that learned Counsel  for	 therespondent  has not been able to point out any provision  inthe   Act   or	 in  the  Rules	  pointing   to	  any	suchdifferentiation.It was, however, submitted that though the statute209might  not say so in express terms, still by reason  of	 theprovisions  of	the  Act and the Rules under,  which  the  "previous-year-turnover	" assessee had to' or  could  submithis  return within sixty days from the commencement  of	 theassessment   year   and	 have	his   assessment   completedimmediately thereafter-as compared to the " assessment-year-assessee  " whose assessment was completed after the end  ofthe year, coupled with the absence of any machinery for	 re-assessment or refunds in the event of any change in the	 laweffected  after the commencement of the financial  year,  ithad  necessarily  to  be held that the liability  of  the  "previous year turnover " assessee got crystallised as on the1st of April of the assessment year and that the Act did notcontemplate  this being disturbed by any subsequent  changesin  the	 substantive law relating to assessment	 during	 theassessment year.  It was said that the tax liability of	 thedealer who had opted for the " previous-year " basis had  tobe  determined on foot of two factors and only two: (1)	 theturnover  of  the  sales of the previous  year	which  is  adefinite  and  known  figure by the 31st  of  March  of	 theprevious year and (2) the rate of tax on the turnover as  itprevailed on the 1st of April of the assessment year when itwas said that there was a "crystallisation" of the liabilityto  tax.   It was pointed out that it was  possible  for  anassessee  to  submit  his  return on  the  basis  of  the  "previous-year-turnover	"  even on the 1st of April  of	 theassessment  year and there being no legal impediment in	 theway of the figures returned by the dealer being accepted theassessment  might conceivably be completed and the  tax	 duedemanded and even paid on the 1st of April, it sell If	thiswere  done,  it	 was urged, there  being  no  machinery	 forreassessment  or  refunds such	completed  assessment  wouldbecome	final  for  the	 year and  could  not  be  disturbedthereafter.  If this were possible or were actually done  inthe  case of one dealer who had so opted, it was urged	thatit  would  obviously  be anomalous  if	another	 dealer	 whohappened to submit his return later and whose assessment wasin27210consequence delayed, should be subjected to a different	 lawor a different rate of levy.In   our   opinion,  this  argument   breaks   on   criticalexamination.   Learned Counsel for the respondent, to  startwith, asserted that the crystallisation of the tax-liabilityas  on	the  1st of April of the assessment  year  was	withreference  to the law as it factually was on that  date	 andthat  changes made subsequently even if	 with  retrospectiveeffect to date from the commencement of the year, would	 notaffect	that  liability.  This was  obviously  an  untenablecontention  because  if	 the later  enactment  or  rule	 wasretrospective  it  must be deemed in the eye of the  law  tohave  been  in existence and in operation  on  the  earlierdate.	 Though	 learned  Counsel  withdrew   this   extremeargument,  still the concession that changes  effected	withretrospective  effect to date from the commencement  of	 theassessment  year would apply to determine the  tax-liabilityeven  of the " previous-year-turnover " assessee  serves  toemphasize  that little importance could be attached  to	 thetwo  bases  on which " the crystallisation  "  argument	 wasrested,	 viz.  :  (1)  the  obligation	or  freedom  of	 theprevious-year-turnover	assessee  to submit his	 return	 andhave  his  assessment  completed within sixty  days  of	 thecommencement of the assessment year and (2) the absence of aspecific provision for reassessment and refund.Under the proviso (1) to s. 3 which reads:"  the	Provincial Government may, by  notification  in	 theofficial Gazette, reduce the rate of tax on the turnover  ofany dealer or class of dealers or on the turnover in respectof any goods or class of goods." the State Government  couldreduce	the rate of tax on the turnover of dealers from	 thestandard rate of 3 pies in the rupee under the main part  ofs.  3.	It is also not denied that there is nothing  in	 theterms  of  the	proviso	 to  confine  the  power  to  effectreductions   only   prospectively  as	distinguished	fromreductions having retrospective effect.	 If a reduction wereeffected  say  in January or February of  the  year,  havingeffect	as  and from the 1st April preceding,  on  the	veryargument advanced, Counsel for the respondent would211have  to  concede, that the reduced rate  would	 govern	 theliability  of  even those dealers who were assessed  on	 thebasis of their turnover of the previous year.Let us first take a case where such a reduction in the	rateis  notified to be effective before an assessee submits	 hisreturn.	 In such a case, the benefit in the reduction of therate  could not be withheld from the previous  year-turnoverdealers	 even on the theory of " crystallisation " just	 nowreferred to.  Let us next take the case of a dealer who	 hassubmitted his return of the turnover of the previous year ona date anterior to the notification regarding the alterationof  the	 rate.	 It might be mentioned that  in	 the  returnsubmitted by dealers which has to be in Form IV of  AppendixF  to the rules, only the total of the sale proceeds of	 thesales  of the classified items of goods have to	 beset	out,but the return does not concern itself with the rate of	 thetax  levied.   This  latter  is	 a  matter  with  which	 theassessing authority is concerned when determining the amountof tax payable.	 If the rates are altered subsequent to	 thesubmission  of	the  return but	 before	 the  assessment  iscompleted, on the terms of the charging section which  drawsno distinction in the incidence of the tax as between the  "previous  year-turnover " group and the	 "  assessment-year-turnover  "  dealers, the Sales-Tax Officer  would  have  toafford	every  assessee,  whatever  be	the  basis  of	thisturnover-the  benefit  of the tax reduction.   The  positionreached	 therefore  is that if the change in the  rate (wehave assumed it to be by way of reduction, but the  argumentwould equally apply to variation in any kind), were effectedbefore	the actual assessment, it should be given effect  toin  the	 case of every assessee for not merely is  there  noprocedural  complication in the shape of a need for  refund-but it would be in accordance with the, law and in fact	 onemight  go further and say that any other mode of  proceedingwould  not be countenanced by the Act, because	the  statutehomologises  the  basis of the tax-whether the	turnover  iscomputed on the previous year's or the current year's sales.Next in regard to cases where the change in the law212is  effected  after  the completion  of	 the  assessment  weconsider  that	the  submission	 regarding  the	 absence  ofmachinery  for reassessment and refund is not well  founded.It  is	true  that  there are  no  provisions  specially  sodesignated  to meet this contingency here referred  to,	 butthat  is  not  the  same thing as saying  that	there  is  acomplete absence of machinery.	In the first place, s. 22 ofthe Act empowers authorities including the assessing officerto  rectify any mistake apparent on the face of	 the  recordand by such rectification even to enhance the tax liability.If on the premises assumed, the variation in the rate of taxwould  on a proper construction of the Act be applicable  tothe turnover of the dealer who has opted for the " previous-year rule " but the assessment order does not give effect toit, it would certainly be a case of an error apparent on theface  of the record, which would bring the case	 within	 thepower  of rectification.  On the analogy of the cases  unders.  35 of the Income Tax Act, 1922, the	 assessment  officercould order rectification in such cases.Even  apart from this, under a. 10(2) of the Act the  dealeror  the	 department  as the case may be	 may  apply  to	 theRevising  authority  for revision of the assessment  on	 theground that the same is not legal, proper or regular.	Thissection enacts:"  The Revising Authority may in its discretion at any	timesuo motu or on being moved by the Commissioner of Sales	 Taxor on the application of any person aggrieved, call for	 andexamine	 the record of any order or proceedings recorded  byany appellate or assessing authority under this Act for	 thepurpose	  of  satisfying  itself  as  to  the  legality	  orpropriety,  of	such order or as to the regularity  of	suchproceedings and may pass such order as he thinks fit."The  orders  which the Revising Authority could	 pass  mighteither	be  by	way of enhancement  or	reduction,  and	 thesubsequent sub-sections provide: .   "10 (4).  The Revising Authority shall not pass any orderunder sub-section (3) adversely affecting any person  unlessan opportunity has been given to such person to be heard.213(5)  If the amount of assessment is reduced by the  RevisingAuthority  under sub-section (3) it shall order	 the  excessamount of tax if already realised to be refunded."  It  is,  therefore, not correct to say that  there  is  nomachinery for rectifying errors and for making consequentialorders for payment of further tax, or for directing refunds,and this argument cannot therefore justify the	constructioncontended for by the respondent.In the entire discussion up to now we have proceeded on	 theassumption that the turnover of " the previous-year " of thedealer	was  a fixed quantity which was	 finally  determinedonce  and for ever on the 31st March of that year  and	thatthe problem was merely to find the rate of tax to be appliedto  this  predetermined	 factor.  It will be  seen  from  anexamination of the Act that even the factor of the  turnoveris subject to variation.  For instance, the first part of s.4 enacts:   " The provisions of section 3 of this Act shall not applyto  (1)	 the  sale of water, salt,  foodgrains,	 milk,	gur,electrical energy for industrial purposes, books, magazines,newspapers  and	 motor	spirit	as  defined  in	 the  UnitedProvinces  Sales  of Motor Spirit Act, 1939, and  any  othergoods which the Provincial Government may, by a notificationin the official Gazette exempt from time to time."Under  this  power besides the specified  goods,  the  StateGovernment  might from time to time exempt other goods	fromamong  those whose sale proceeds have to be included in	 theturnover.  If an exemption of that type were granted say  in1948-49,  it  cannot be contended that the turnover  of	 thedealer	who  had  opted for the " previous  year  "  has  toinclude	 these sales in the return which he submits in	FormIV,  If	 by the date of the submission of  the	return,	 theexemption  has been notified, and has effect for the  entireyear  of course he need not include these sale	proceeds  inhis  return.  The computation, therefore, of the quantum  ofturnover of the previous year on which tax has to be  leviedis one which is subject to the law214in relation to it in the assessment year, and any  change inthat law presents the same problems, as the variation in therate of tax. Up to now the discussion has proceeded on the basis that  achange	in  the law made in the assessment year	 whether  asregards the computation of the turnover or as to the rate oflevy, is effective throughout that year, i.e., from the	 1stApril to the 31st March, and it is found that the fact	thatthe  returns  of  the previous	year  turnover	dealers	 arerequired  to or are submitted within the early part  of	 theyear,  or  the contention based on the absence	of  specificmachinery  for	reassessment or refund are  an	insufficientbasis  for  holding that a change in the law  affecting	 thebasis  of tax-liability would not affect  the  previous-yearturnover assessees and that the machinery provided by ss. 10and 22 are adequate to meet the contingencies arising out ofthe   changes  being  retrospectively  effected	 after	 theassessments were completed.We shall next proceed to consider whether the change in	 thelaw  either  as	 regards  the  computation  of	the  taxableturnover  or as regards the rate of tax	 becoming  operativesometime after the year has commenced makes any	 difference.In  the	 case of the  "assessment-year-turnover	 "  dealers,there  is no problem because the sales effected	 during	 thecourse	of the year would be governed by the law  applicablefrom  time to time.  The entire basis or theory of  the	 taxbeing levied on foot of the previous year's turnover is thatnotwithstanding	 that factually the sales took place in	 theprevious year they are to be deemed by fiction to have takenplace  in  the	year  of  assessment.	If  that  theory  bediscarded  there  could be no legal foundation for  the	 taxbeing levied by the Act even as originally enacted on a salewhich  factually  took place before it was  operative.	 Theonly question therefore is the precise scope of that fictionand  its logical implication.  If the sale in  the  previousyear  is treated by the Act as a sale in the  present  year,then no principle is contravened, if it were held that salesduring	a portion of the previous year are held to be  salesduring a corresponding portion of the current215year.  If we reject the argument that it is only the law  asprevailed on the 1st April of a year that forms,, the  basisfor   the   computation	 of  the  turnover   and   for	 theascertainment  of the tax-liability-as not flowing from	 theprovisions  of the Act, and indeed as contrary to  the	veryscheme	underlying  the enactment, the changes	in  the	 laweffected  during  the  course of the  assessment  year	mustoperate	 even  in respect of the turnover  of  the  previousyear, which are deemed to be the turnover of the  assessmentyear.It  now remains to deal with the question as to whether	 thelanguage  employed in the notification by which	 only  saleseffected  after a date specified in the assessment year	 areto be governed by the new levy, precludes the application ofthe  notified  change  to those	 dealers  whose	 sales	wereactually  effected in the previous year, but who  had  optedfor the " previous-year-turnover " basis of assessment.The argument of learned Counsel, which found favour with thelearned	 Judges	 of the High Court was	briefly	 this.	 Thenotification expressly states that only sales effected	fromand  after  June 9, 1948, were to be charged  with  the	 newrates.	In terms therefore, the change in the law is  whollyprospective.   If  so, one cannot by any line  of  reasoningreach  the conclusion that the new rates of levy applied  tosales,	as  by	the present respondent,	 more  than  a	yearearlier.  So stated the reasoning appears impressive and  itis  true  that	a taxing enactment cannot  be  construed  aslevying	 a charge unless the words clearly do so.   But	 thewords  have  always  to be understood  and  more  than	thatapplied with reference to the underlying basis of the schemeof  taxation.	So  applied, it does not  appear  to  us  tosupport the contention of the respondent.  The change in therate  of  tax, was no doubt  prospective.   The	 phraseologyemployed merely means that in the case of the "	 assessment-year-turnover  "  dealers only the sale	 proceeds  of  saleseffected  after the specified date would be governed by	 thenew  rates.  In the case of the "  previous-year-turnover  "dealers, the change operates to determine the amount of	 taxduring their assessment year-just in the same manner as216the  original charge under the Act, of a flat rate of  threepies determined the tax payable notwithstanding that none ofthe  sales  whose proceeds were included in  their  turnoverwere  effected during the assessment year.  We have  alreadypointed	 out  that the basic idea underlying  the  provisioncontained  in  s. 7(1) of the Act 'is that it  projects	 theturnover  of  the previous year into  the  assessment  year.Admittedly the Act itself is not retrospective, or  designedto  levy the charge under s. 3(1), on sales effected  beforeApril  1, 1948.	 If sales of the previous year	are  broughtwithin	the  taxing provision, it is not because  the  saleswhen they took place were subject to tax, but because either(a)  the  previous year's sales are deemed in  law-when	 theassessee so opts-as the sales of the current year or (b) theprevious year's turnover being opted, the provisions of	 thecharging  sections operate on that turnover.   Whichever  ofthese be the more accurate method of expressing the  result,the  fact is that there is no element of retrospectivity  atall  involved  in  the	application of	the  tax  law  whichprevails  in the year of assessment to the turnover  of	 theprevious  year	when due to the choice of  the	assessee  ofbeing  assessed under s. 7(1), the previous years'  turnoverbasis  is rendered applicable.	Possibly the matter  may  betested in this manner.	Section 3(1) of the Act the chargingsection-imposes	 in effect a tax of three pies per rupee  onall sales effected after the commencement of the Act,  i.e.,after April 1, 1948.  Sup. pose that section itself, had  bya proviso imposed a tax @ six pies per rupee on all sales ofedible	oil  effected on and after June 9, 1948.   Could  itthen  be open to argument, that in respect of  the  previousyear's sales, only a three pies tax was payable and that theresult	of  the charging provision could  be  ignored.	 If,therefore,  we are right so far, the respondent	 derives  noadvantage  from	 the notification specifying  the  dates  ofsales effected from and after which they would be subject tothe  varied  rate.  The notification had necessarily  to  beworded as it was, in order to fulfil its primary purpose  ofeffecting  a change in the rate during the assessment  year.The date217mentioned  in  the notification as the date from  and  afterwhich  sales  would  be	 charged  at  the  new	rates  wouldtherefore  not militate against the new rates being  appliedto the turnover of the previous year, since the turnover  ofthe previous year has to be assessed on the rates prevailingin the assessment year.The  next question is how on the terms of  the	notificationwhich  came  into operation after the  commencement  of	 theassessment year and during the course of it, the  proportionof the turnover on the basis of which the tax-liability of aprevious-year's turnover dealer could be computed.   LearnedCounsel for the respondent urged that no intelligible  basiscould be suggested for distinguishing the two periods in theprevious  year	when  the original  rates  and	the  alterednotified rates would operate.  Learned Counsel urged that itwould be impossible to distinguish these two periods  eitheron  any theory of retrospectivity of the notification or  onany  theory regarding the sales of the previous	 year  beingattributed  to the corresponding dates of the current  year.There	is  no	doubt  that  this  mode	 of  computing	 theproportion, viz., to treat the sales which were effected  onvarious dates of the previous year, as if they were sales onthe  corresponding  dates of the current year  and  thus  tocompute the two totals of turnover which would be subject todifferent   rates  of  duty  would  not	 be   proper.	 Theimpropriety  would  arise  from the fact  that	the  fictionenacted	 by  s.	 7(1) is not that each	day's  sale  in	 theprevious  year is deemed to be a sale on  the  correspondingdate  in the current year, but only that the  total  taxableturnover  of the previous year is deemed to be that  of	 thecurrent	 year.	 The method to which objection is  taken  ishowever	 not  the  manner in  which  the  Sales-tax  Officercomputed  the  proportion which was affirmed  by  the  Judge(Revision).   If  the  total of the  sale  proceeds  of	 theprevious year is deemed to be the total of the current year,there  is  no illogicality or impropriety in  dividing	thattotal  in accordance with the number of days in the year  inwhich  the different rates prevailed and that  is  preciselywhat the Sales-tax Officer did.28218If  as we hold both the computation of the turnover  of	 theprevious year, as well as the incidence of the tax  leviableon  it,	 are to be determined not merely by the	 law  as  itstood  on the first day of the assessment year, but  by	 thelaw  applicable to assessments during the entire  assessmentyear,	the  method  by	 which	the  tax-liability  of	 therespondent was computed by the Sales-tax Officer is not opento any objection.In connection with the interpretation of the notification  aminor point was suggested to which brief reference might  bemade.	It was submitted that as the notification in  effectlevied a tax, if it was ambiguous, it should be resolved  infavour of the subject-the tax-payer.  We see no ambiguity inthe notification to justify an appeal to this rule.  Besidesthe   notification  in	effect	frees  dealers	other	thanimporters and manufacturers of all tax-liability in  respectof  the	 sale-turnover	of oil, though in the  case  of	 twospecified  classes  of	dealers. a single point	 tax  at  anenhanced  rate is levied.  In such a situation, the rule  ofconstruction  invoked could hardly be applied, even  if	 thecondition as to ambiguity were present.We, therefore, hold that the assessment to sales-tax of	 therespondent  company by applying to its turnover of the	year1947-48,  the rate of tax specified in the  notification  ofJune 8, 1948, as determined by the Sales-tax Officer was  inaccordance  with  the law.  We would accordingly  allow	 theappeal,	 set aside the decree of the High Court and  restorethe  assessment	 order of the Sales-tax Officer	 with  costshere and in the High Court.BY  COURT.-In accordance with the opinion of  the  majority,the appeal is dismissed with costs.219