PETITIONER:K.M. NANAVATI	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:05/09/1960BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)KAPUR, J.L.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1961 AIR  112		  1961 SCR  (1) 497 CITATOR INFO : D	    1963 SC 996	 (14) RF	    1976 SC1750	 (12) D	    1988 SC1531	 (159) RF	    1989 SC 653	 (12) RF	    1990 SC1480	 (77)ACT:Sentence, suspension of-Order by Governor during pendency ofappeal	in  the	 Supreme  Court-If  constitutionally  valid-Governor's power of clemency-Court's Power of granting	bailor suspending sentence-Harmonious exercise of two Powers-TheConstitution  of India, Arts. 161, 142-Supreme Court  Rules,Order XXI, r. 5.HEADNOTE:The  petitioner	 was Second in Command of 1.  N.  S.  Mysorewhich came to Bombay in the beginning of March, 1959.	Soonthereafter  he was arrested on a charge of murder  under  s.302 of the 'Indian Penal Code and was placed, and  continuedto remain, in naval custody all along during his trial.	  Indue  course  he	 was placed on trial by a  jury	 before	 theSessions Judge, Greater Bombay, in which the jury returned averdict of not guilty by a majority; but the Sessions  judgedisagreeing with the verdict of the jury made a reference tothe  High Court which convicted the petitioner under s.	 302of  the Indian Penal Code and sentenced him to	imprisonmentfor  life.  On the same day when the High  Court  pronouncedits  judgment the Governor of Bombay passed an	order  underArt.  161  of  the  Constitution  of  India  suspending	 thesentence  passed  by  the  High	 Court	of  Bombay  on	 thepetitioner  until the appeal intended to be filed by him  inthe  Supreme Court against his conviction and  sentence	 wasdisposed  of and subject meanwhile to the condition that  heshall be detained in the Naval Jail custody.  A warrant	 forthe  arrest of the petitioner which was issued in  pursuanceof the judgment of the High Court was returned unserved withthe report that it could not be served in view of the  orderof  the	 Governor suspending the sentence  passed  upon	 thepetitioner.In  course  of the hearing of an application  for  leave  toappeal	to the Supreme Court filed by the petitioner in	 theHigh  Court the matter of the unexecuted warrant was  placedbefore	it  and	 a Special Bench of  the  High	Court  afterexamining  the validity of the action taken by the  Governorcame to the conclusion that the order passed by the Governorwas  not  invalid,  that  the order  for  detention  of	 thepetitioner  in	naval custody was not  unconstitutional	 andthat  the  sentence  passed on the  petitioner	having	beensuspended  the	provisions of 0. XXI, r. 5, of	the  SupremeCourt  Rules did not apply and it was not necessary for	 thepetitioner to surrender to his sentence.Thereafter  the petitioner filed an application for  specialleave  in  the Supreme Court and  also	another	 applicationpraying	 for  exemption from compliance with  the  aforesaidrule and498for the hearing of his application for special leave withoutsurrendering to his sentence.  His plea at first was that ashe was not a free man it was not possible for him to  complywith the requirements of 0. XXI, r. 5, of the Supreme  CourtRules; but he subsequently amended it to the effect that theaforesaid  Rule	 did not apply to his case in  view  of	 theGovernor's  order.   On	 a reference of	 this  matter  by  aDivision  Bench of this Court to the Constitution-Bench	 forhearing,Held, that the Governor had no power to grant the suspensionof sentence for the period during which the matter was	sub-judice	in this Court.	The Governor's order suspending	 thesentence  could	 only operate until the matter	became	sub-judice	in  this  Court on the filing of  the  petition	 forspecial leave to appeal whereupon this Court being in seisinof the matter would consider whether 0. XXI, r. 5 should  beapplied	 or  the  petitioner should  be	 exempted  from	 theoperation thereof as prayed for.  It would then be for	thisCourt  to pass such orders as it thought fit as	 to  whetherbail  should  be  granted to the  petitioner  or  he  shouldsurrender to his sentence or to pass such other order as thecourt deemed fit in the circumstances of the case.On the principle of harmonious construction and- to avoid  apossible conflict between the powers given under Art. 161 tothe  Governor and under Art. 142 to the Supreme Court,	bothof  which  are absolute and unfettered in  their  respectivefields	of operation, it must be held that.   Art.  161,doesnot  deal  with the suspension of sentence during  the	timethat  Art. 142 is in operation and the matter is  sub-judicein the Supreme Court.Per KAPUR J. (dissenting)-The language of Art. 161 is of thewidest	amplitude.   It is plenary and an act of  grace	 andclemency  and may be termed as benign prerogative of  mercy;The power of pardon is absolute and exercisable at any time.Rules framed under Art.	 145 are subordinate legislation andcannot	 override  the	provisions  of	Art.  161   of	 theConstitution  itself.  While the Governor's power  to  grantpardon is a power specially conferred upon him as was vestedin the British Governor in British days, the power given  tothe  Court under Art. 142(1) is a general power	 exercisablefor  doing complete justice in any cause or matter,  and  ifthey  deal with the same matter then Art. 161  must  prevailover  Art. 142(1). The two powers may have the	same  effectbut they operate in distinct fields on different  principlestaking wholly irreconcilable factors into consideration.The  action  taken by the executive being  the	exercise  ofoverriding power is not subject to judicial review.It  could not have been the intention of the framers of	 theConstitution that the amplitude of executive power should berestricted as to become suspended for the period of pendencyof an appeal in the Supreme Court.499JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal  Misc.Petn.	 No.320/60.Application   for   exemption  from  compliance	  with	 therequirements  of Rule 5 of Order XXI, Supreme  Court  Rules,1950 (as amended).1960.  July 18, 19, 20	21, 22.S.   N.	 Andley, J. B. Dadachanji, Rameshwar Nath and P.  L.Vohra, for the petitioner.H.M. Seervai, Advocate-General for the State of BombayAtulSetalved and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.[SinhaC.  J.-Do	 you dispute the power of the  Court  tomake this rule ?]H.M. Seervai:--No, My Lord.  The Court imposes a  penaltyin 'its judicial capacity; the Executive remits the  penaltyin  its executive capacity.  There is no clash	between	 thetwo powers.  The powers of the Executive do not collide withthe  powers 'of the judiciary.	The prerogative of the	Kingor  the	 President  can	 never	be  in	conflict  with	 thejudiciary,  executive or legislature.  Prerogatives come  toaid  the process of justice.  Power of pardon is plenary  innature	and unfettered.	 It could be exercised at  any	timeafter  the  commission of the  offence,	 before	 indictment,during the trial and after the trial.[Sinha	C. J.-Is not that power of pardon  exercised  beforethe trial ?]Pardon is given after the offence is proved.  In the  UnitedStates the question is never asked whether the President hasinvaded the power of the judiciary.[Sinha C. J.-So far as India is concerned take a ,case	likethis:  A  man  is convicted for	 murder	 and.  sentenced  toimprisonment  for life.	 But subsequently it is	 found	thatthe  deceased died a natural death or the deceased  appearedalive afterwards.  What will happen ?]A pardon will be granted(s.-401). The President is  entitledto pardon a person convicted for an offence punishable	withdeath, United States v. Wilson, 8 L.	Ed.  640 at 644,  Exparte Wells, 15 L. Ed. 421, 423.500A   free  and  unconditional  pardon  has  the	 effect	  ofobliterating  the crime.  Section 426(1) empowers the  Courtto  suspend  the  sentence or grant  bail.   The  Executive,Judiciary  and	Legislature,  paralysing  each	other  neverhappens.   United States v. Klein, 20 L. Ed. 519,  Ex  ParteGrossman, 69 L. Ed. 527.[SUBBA	RAO J.-Your argument assumes that if the  Governor'sorder  was valid then the Supreme Court Rule would not	comein.   It  may not be necessarily so because in	the  presentcase there was a conviction and sentence and the accused hasno  right of appeal.  The accused invited the order  of	 theGovernor.   Entertainment of the appeal by special leave  isin  the discretion of the Supreme Court.  Unless  there	 areadequate  reasons for the Governor to make this	 order,	 whyshould	we  use	 our discretion to  give  exemption  to	 theaccused from the rules of the Court ?]The sentence having been suspended there is no sentence	 andtherefore this Court need not insist on his surrender.[SUBBA	RAO J.-The provisions, of Art. 161 did not say	thatthe power under it could be exercised notwithstanding  otherprovisions  of	the Constitution.  Was	it,  therefore,	 notnecessary to hormonise this power with other  constitutionalprovisions such as Art. 142 ?][KAPUR	J.-In  India  have the Courts  power  to  suspend  asentence?]Yes, in a limited way as provided in s. 426.[KAPUR	J.-If  the  sentence  is  suspended,  there  is	  nosentence.] No, there is no sentence to surrender to.  The execution ofsentence  is an executive power.  The function of the  Courtends  with  the	 passing  of the  sentence.   To  carry	 thesentence  into	execution  is an  executive  order.   UnitedStates v. Benz, 75 L. Ed. 354, 358.In  India  we  start with s. 401 of  the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure, 1898, and s. 295 Government of India Act,1935.Pardon is a part of the Constitutional scheme, Balmukand  v.King, Emperor, L. R. 42 I. A. 133.501Exercise  of prerogatives is in the  jurisdiction  of  theExecutive  and	not the judiciary, Lala Jairam Das  v.	KingEmperor,  L.  R.  72 1. A. 120.	 The powers are	 in  aid  ofjustice.[SUBBA RAO J.-Your argument is that one acts in the judicialfield, while the other acts in the executive field and hencethere is no conflict.  But whatever the nature of the power,the Governor in exercising that power is encroaching on	 thefield occupied by the Supreme Court.  Under the Constitutionthe  Supreme  Court  can  entertain  appeals  and  pass	 thenecessary  orders  and perhaps, under the rules	 suspend  orstay  execution	 of  a	sentence.  On  the  other  hand	 theGovernor under Art. 161 has powers to suspend the  sentence.I   am	suggesting  that  where	 there	is  a  conflict	  ofjurisdiction  between the Judiciary and the Executive is  itnot reasonable to bring harmony between these two?  What  iswrong in confining the power of the Governor to cases  wherethere  is no appeal pending before the Supreme Court  ?	 Canthe executive interfere with the judiciary in the midst of acase?]Yes,  in  its  administrative  capacity	 it  can  ask	the.Advocate-General to enter a nolle prosequi and terminate thetrial.	 This  a  statutory power.   Babu  Lal	Chokhani  v.Emperor,  [1937]  1 Cal. 464.  Court refused  bail  but	 theexecutive suspended the sentence.The State of Bihar v. M. Homi, [1955] 2 S.C.R. 78.Rule  5 Order XXI, of the Supreme Court Rules represent's  awell-settled practice of all courts but it cannot affect thepower  of  pardon or the exercise of prerogatives  which  isunfettered.  The Rule postulates that there is a sentence tosurrender   to'.   Under  Arts.	 72,  161  the	 President'sprerogative  is	 not  made  subject  to	 any   parliamentarylegislation.   There is no limit to Art. 72 or Art.  161  inthe  Constitution express or implied, Hari Vishnu Kamath  v.Syed  Ahmad Ishaque, [1955] 1 S. C. R. 1104.  The powers  ofthe Court and the Executive are distinct and separate.	 TheExecutive  comes  in  after  the  Court	 has  performed	 itsfunction.502[KAPUR	J.-YOU are talking about suspension of the  sentencebut  can  the Supreme Court suspend the sentence  ?  We	 cangrant bail but can we suspend the sentence?Yes,  the Supreme Court has the power to stay the  executionof sentence.][KAPUR	J.-IS the condition imposed upon Commander  Nanavatiillegal ?]No, nobody has said so.The  Court can say Judicially that justice requires  that  aconvicted person should remain in jail but the President cansay  on	 considerations of mercy that he should	 be  set  atliberty, King v. S. S. Singh, I.L.R. 32 Pat. 243.  Power  ofprerogative  is	 far wider than the judicial powers  of	 theCourt.	 The expression " at any time " in s. 401,  Code  ofCriminal Procedure, recognises this principle.[GAJENDRAGADKAR	 J.-Can	 the  naval  authorities  keep	 thepetitioner in naval custody ? Is it legal ?]The  naval authorities made no such request.   The  Governorordered	 him  to  be kept in naval  custody  and  the  navalauthorities did not object.  There is nothing illegal  aboutit.  It was perfectly legal.  The validity of the Governor'sorder has not been referred to this constitutional bench  ofthe  Court.   There  is a distinction  between	illegal	 andunlawful.   Illegal is that which the law directly  forbids;unlawful is that which the law does not recognise.[SINHA	C. J.-What is unlawful may become lawful by  consentbut what is illegal cannot become legal even by consent.]The  Governor's	 order	should not be  held  to	 be  illegalwithout	 any  complaint	 to that  effect  from	the  partiesconcerned and in their absence.	 When the navy accepted	 theGovernor's  order  it  could be presumed that  there  was  ausage,	S. 3(3)(12), Navy Act.	There is no section  in	 theNavy Act which prohibits such custody.[GAJENDRAGADKAR	 J.7-18	 this  the  position  now  that	 theProvost Marshall is keeping the petitioner in503his custody without any express provision of the Navy Act?]Section 14 of the Navy Act.  There is a difference between aprivate	 person and a naval officer being detained in  navalcustody.  Commander Nanavati is still in naval service.	  Hecannot leave the naval service.[SUBBA	RAO J.-There are two ways of reconciling the  powersof  the	 Governor under Art. 161 and those  of	the  SupremeCourt  under Arts. 142, 144, 145.  One way was to  say	thatthe Supreme Court had no power when the Executive  exercisedits  powers.  The other way was to say that while  both	 hadpowers,	 so far as pardon and remission were  concerned	 theExecutive had the exclusive power, but as far as  suspensionwas concerned, when proceedings were pending in the  SupremeCourt  the Executive could not make an order impinging	uponthe Supreme Court's power.]But  in the interest of justice the Supreme Court  can	passany  suitable order.  The power of the Supreme	Court  underArt. 141 is a power generally- exercisable in all cases	 butthe  Governor's	 power is a special power.  If	there  is  aconflict  between  a General power and a special  power	 thespecial	 power	should prevail although I don't	 admit	thatthere is a conflict.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India,S.   M.Sikri, Advocate-General for the State of Punjab and T. M.Sen,for the Attorney General of India.  There is no conflict  atall.   The power of the Supreme Court is a  judicial  power;the  power  of	the Governor is an  executive  power.	Theycannot	collide	 at all.  The Supreme  Court  can  certainlyexercise its power but let it not disregard the power of theexecutive.  Let both the powers be harmonised.C.B.  Agarwala	(Amicus Curiae)-The Supreme  Court  is	aCourt  of record under Art. 129 and has	 the  constitutionalprivilege of prescribing. its procedure under which it	willexercise   its	 discretion   vested  in it   under   theConstitution.  By Art. 145 the Supreme65504Court  has  the	 constitutional	 power	to  lay	 down  rulesimposing  conditions under which alone it would entertain  aspecial leave petition.The  material  rule is made under the  constitutional  rightgiven  to  the Supreme Court as a Court of  Record  and	 notunder  a law made under Art. 245.   Subordinate	 legislationpresupposes  a rule made under laws enacted under Art.	245.Its analogy cannot be .applied to rules under Art. 145.	 Thefact  that  the rules made by the Supreme Court	 under	Art.145.  require the approval of the President  cannot  convertthe rules into a law made under Art. 245.The rule in question made by the Supreme Court requires thatthe special leave petition is subject to the condition	thatthe  petitioner surrenders to the authority of	the  SupremeCourt, and by passing the order in question the Governor hasdeprived the Supreme Court of its authority over the custodyof the accused pending the special leave petition.   Article161  read with Art. 154 shows that the Governor	 even  whileexercising  his constitutional powers cannot affect,  modifyor override the powers of the Supreme Court or the procedureprescribed by it.After  a  special leave petition is made to it or  when	 theappeal is admitted, the Supreme Court has ample jurisdictionto  give relief by way of suspension of sentence under	Art.141  and the rules.  Power of suspension of sentence is	 notexercisable  by the Executive when relief can be granted  bythe trial Court or a competent Court of appeal.The appropriate construction of the rule would indicate thatthe Governor's powers under Art. 161 operate only up to	 thestage  when an application for special leave is	 made  underArt.  136  and cannot interfere with the  authority  of	 theSupreme Court thereafter.Assuming,   without  admitting,	 that  the  Governor   couldinterfere with the authority and jurisdiction of the SupremeCourt  he could do so only if a valid order was	 made  underArt. 161.  The order under consideration being subject to anillegal	 condition  is	an  illegal  order.   Even  if,	 thecondition is not illegal it has been505operated only by the petitioner's voluntary consent with theobject of not complying with the rule of the Supreme  Court.The Supreme Court will decline to exercise its discretion infavour	of  the	 petitioner who by  his	 voluntary  act	 puthimself out of its jurisdiction.Under Art. 144 the Governor's authority is bound to aid	 thecourt  in the exercise of its jurisdiction.  It is  open  tothe  petitioner	 to approach the Government  to	 modify	 theGovernor's order to enable him to comply with the  procedureof the Supreme Court.[KAPUP.	 J.-Has the Court power to suspend a sentence ?	 Hasany court ever done so ? Has any court ever ordered that thesentence will take effect after a certain period of time ?]The  appellate Court has the. power to suspend the  sentenceunder Art. 142.[SINHA C. J.-The Executive can intervene at, any time duringthe trial.]Yes,  in  the  case of pardon, The State of  Bombay  v.	 TheUnited Motors (India) Ltd., [1953] S.C.R. 1069.[SINHA C: J.-The argument of the petitioner is that there isno  sentence in operation and therefore there is nothing  tosurrender to.]There  is  apparently  a  conflict.   The  Court  says	 thepetitioner  must surrender to his sentence.   The  Executivesays  that  he need not surrender and will  remain  in	someother  custody.	  The Governor has extended the	 period	 of,suspension  till the decision of the petitioner's appeal  inthis Court.  There is clash with the rule of this Court.[SINHA	C.  J.-If  the Supreme Court refused  bail  can	 theexecutive suspend the sentence ?]No, it cannot, in cases of suspension there is apparently  aconflict.   There  is  a  distinction  between	pardon	 andsuspension.   Suspension  stands  on  a	 different  footing.Pardon	can  be	 granted  at any  stage	 but  suspension  ofsentence can be made only after the sentence is inflicted.H.M. Seervai in reply.	Nothing in Arts. 142, 145 and ss.411, 426, Code of Criminal Procedure, will506supersede the powers of the Governor to grant reprieve, etc.The   Code  of	Criminal  Procedure  gives  the	  power	  ofsuspension, of bail, etc.[KAPUR	J.-Did	the Federal Court have power  to  suspend  asentence.]Yes,  it  had the power to grant bail or stay  execution  ofsentence.   The	 power	of  the	 Court	to  suspend  is	 notabsolute.[SINHA C. J.-The Executive is bound to execute the orders ofthe Court.]Yes, but if the Government, after the passing of the Court'sorder,	itself	in  its own  jurisdiction  passes  an  ordersuspending  the sentence the Executive in that case  has  noauthority  to execute the order of the Court, United  Statesv. Benz, 75 L. Ed. 354, Hales Pleas of the  Crown,-Reprievesbefore or after the judgment, p. 412, Rogers v. Peck, 50  L.Ed.  256Reprieve being granted when a matter was before	 theCourt.1960.	 September  5.	The  Judgment  of  Sinha,   C.	 J.,Gajendragadkar, Subba Rao and Wanchoo, JJ., was delivered bySinha C. J. Kapur, J., delivered a separate Judgment.SINHA	C.  J.-This  matter  has  been	placed	before	 theConstitution Bench in father extraordinary circumstances, aswill presently appear.	It involves the question as to	whatis  the content of the power conferred on the Governor of  aState  under Art. 161 of the Constitution ; and whether	 theorder  of  the	Governor of Bombay  dated  March  11,  1960,impinges  on  the  judicial  powers  of	 this  Court,	withparticular  reference  to its powers under Art. 142  of	 theConstitution.For the determination of the constitutional issue raised  inthis case, it is not necessary to go into the merits of	 thecase against the petitioner.  It is only necessary to  statethe  following	facts  in order to  appreciate	the  factualbackground of the order of the Governor of Bombay  aforesaidimpugned in this case.	The petitioner was Second in Commandof 1. N. S. Mysore, which came to Bombay in the beginning of507March 1959.  On April 27, 1959, the petitioner was  arrestedin  connection with a charge of murder under s. 302  of	 theIndian	Penal Code.  He was produced before  the  AdditionalChief  Presidency Magistrate, Greater Bombay, in  connectionwith that charge on April 28, 1959.. The Magistrate remandedhim  to	 police custody on that day.  On the  following	 day(April	29, 1959) the Magistrate received a letter from	 theFlag  Officer, Bombay, to the effect that he was  ready	 andwilling	 to take the accused in naval custody as defined  ins.  3(12) of the Navy__Act, 1957, in which custody he  wouldcontinue  to  be  detained under the  orders  of  the  NavalProvost Marshall in exercise of his authority under s. 89(2)and (3) of the Navy Act.  There upon the Magistrate made theorder  directing that the accused should be detained in	 theNaval Jail and Detention Quarters in Bombay.  The Magistratehas  observed in his order that he had been moved under	 theinstructions  of  the Government of India.   The  petitionercontinued  to  remain in naval custody all  along.   In	 duecourse,	 he was placed on trial before the  Sessions  Judge,Greater Bombay.	 The trial was by a jury.  The jury returneda  verdict  of 'not guilty' by a majority of eight  to	one.The  learned  Sessions Judge made a reference  to  the	HighCourt	under  s.  307	of  the	 Criminal  Procedure   Code,disagreeing  with the verdict of the jury.   The  reference,being Cr. Ref No. 159 of 1959, was heard by a Division Benchof  the	 Bombay	 High Court.  The High	Court  accepted	 thereference  and convicted the petitioner under s. 302 of	 theIndian	Penal  Code and sentenced him  to  imprisonment	 forlife,  by its judgment and order dated March 11,  1960.	  Onthe  same day, the Governor of Bombay passed  the  followingorder:-	      " In exercise of the powers conferred on me by	      Article  161 of the Constitution of India,  1,	      Shri  Prakasa, Governor of Bombay, am  Pleased	      hereby  to suspend the sentence passed by	 the	      High  Court  of  Bombay  on  Commander  K.  M.	      Nanavati	in  Sessions  Case go.	22  of	IVth	      Sessions of 1959 until the appeal intended  to	      be  filed by him in the Supreme Court  against	      his conviction and sentence is disposed of and	      508	      subject  meanwhile to the conditions  that  he	      shall be detained in the Naval Jail Custody in	      1. N. S. Kunjali".In  pursuance  of  the judgment of the High  Court,  a	writissued to the Sessions Judge, Greater Bombay,  communicatingthe  order of the High Court convicting and  sentencing	 thepetitioner  as	aforesaid.   The  Sessions  Judge  issued  awarrant	 for  the arrest of the accused and sent it  to	 thepolice	officer	 in charge of the City	Sessions  Court	 forGreater	 Bombay	 for execution.	 The  warrant  was  returnedunnerved  with	the  report that the warrant  could  not  beserved	in  view of the order set out above  passed  by	 theGovernor   of  Bombay  suspending  the	sentence  upon	 thepetitioner.   The Sessions Judge then returned the writ	 to-gether with the unexecuted warrant to the High Court.In  the meantime an application for leave to appeal  to	 theSupreme	  Court	 was  made  soon  after	 the  judgment	 waspronounced  by the High Court and the matter was  fixed	 forhearing	 on March 14, 1960.  On that day the matter  of	 theunexecuted  warrant  was placed before	the  Division  Benchwhich	directed   that,  in  view  of	 the   unusual	 andunprecedented  situation  arising out of the  order  of	 theGovernor  the matter should be referred to a  larger  Bench.Notice was accordingly issued to the State of Bombay and  tothe accused person.  A Special Bench of five Judges of	thatCourt  heard  the matter.  The Special Bench  permitted	 twoAdvocates,  Mr. Kotwal and Mr. Pranjpe, to appear on  behalfof the Western India Advocates' Association.  Similarly, Mr.Peerbhoy was also permitted to appear along with Mr.  Latifion behalf of the Bombay Bar Association.  They were heard asamicus curiae in view of the fact that the Advocate  Generalfor  the  State of Bombay and the counsel for  accused	wereboth sailing in the same boat, that is to say, both of	themwere  appearing to support the order made by  the  Governor.In view of the great importance of the issues involved,	 theCourt  allowed those Advocates to represent the	 other	viewpoint.	 The Advocate General of Bombay as also counsel	 forthe509accused	 made objections to the Court hearing the  Advocatesaforesaid on the ground that they had no locus standi.	 TheAdvocate  General  of  Bombay  also  raised  a	 preliminaryobjection to the hearing of the matter by the Special  Benchon  the	 ground that it had no jurisdiction to	examine	 thevalidity of the action taken by the Governor, because  therewas  no	 judicial  proceeding then  pending.   The  criminalreference aforesaid, to which the State and the accused wereparties,  had  already been disposed of and  none  of  thoseparties	 had raised any grievance or objection to the  orderof  the	 Governor  impugned before  the	 Court.	  The  Courtoverruled  that objection in view of the fact that the	writissued by the Court had been returned unexecuted on  groundswhich  could be examined by the Court as to the validity  ofthe  reasons for the return of the warrant unexecuted.	 TheHigh Court then examined the validity of the action taken bythe  Governor  and came to the conclusion that	it  had	 thepower  to examine the extent of the Governor's	power  underArt. 161 of the Constitution and whether it had been validlyexercised   in	the  instant  case.   After   an   elaborateexamination  of the questions raised before it, the  SpecialBench  came to the conclusion that the order passed  by	 theGovernor  was not invalid.  It also held that the  conditionof  the	 suspension  of the order  that	 the  petitioner  bedetained  in  naval custody was also  not  unconstitutional,even  though  the accused could not have  been	detained  inNaval  Jail under the provisions of the Navy Act,  after  hehad  been convicted by the High Court.	The Court also	heldnegativing the contention raised on behalf of the  Advocatesappearing  as amicus curiae that the order of  the  Governordid  not  affect  the  power  of  the  Supreme	Court	withparticular  reference to r. 5 of 0. XXI of the Rules of	 the'Supreme  Court, which will be set out in full	hereinafter.The  reason  for this conclusion, in the words of  the	HighCourt, is :-	      " As the sentence passed upon the accused	 has	      been  suspended, it is not necessary  for	 the	      accused  to surrender to his sentence.	      Order XXI, r. 5, of the	      510	       Supreme	Court  Rules  will  not,  therefore,	      apply in this case".The  High Court also overruled the plea of mala	 fides.	  Inthe  result, the High Court held that as the order  made  bythe  Governor had not been shown to be	unconstitutional  orcontrary  to law, the' warrant should not be reissued  untilthe  appeal  to	 be  filed in the  Supreme  Court  had	beendisposed  of, unless the order made by the  Governor  standscancelled or withdrawn before that event.The petitioner filed his petition for special leave in	thisCourt  on  April 20,1960, and also made	 an  application  onApril  21,  1960, under 0. XLV, rr. 2 and 5 of	the  SupremeCourt Rules for exemption from compliance with 0. XXI, r. 5,of  those Rules.  It was stated in the petition	 that,	soonafter his arrest, the petitioner throughout the trial beforethe  Sessions Court and the hearing of the reference in	 theHigh Court, had been in naval custody and continued to be inthat  custody, that he had been throughout of good  behaviorand  was ready and willing to obey any order of this  Court,but  that the petitioner " not being a free man it  was	 notpossible for him to comply with the requirements of r. 5  of0.  XXI of the Supreme Court Rules.........  He,  therefore,prayed	that  he may be exempted from  compliance  with	 theaforesaid  rule and that his petition for special  leave  toappeal be posted for hearing without his surrendering to hissentence.   On	April 25, 1960, the special  leave  petitionalong  with  the  application for  exemption  aforesaid	 wasplaced	before a Division Bench which passed  the  followingorder:	      "This is a petition for special leave against	      the  order passed by the Bombay High Court  on	      reference, convicting the petitioner under  s.	      302  of the Indian Penal Code  and  sentencing	      him to imprisonment for life.  Along with	 his	      petition for special leave an application	 has	      been  filed by the petitioner praying that  he	      may  be  exempted from surrendering  under  0.	      XXI,  r. 5, of the Rules of this	Court.	 His	      contention  in this application is that he  is	      ready and willing to obey any order that	this	      Court  may  pass but that as a result  of	 the	      order passed by the Governor of Bombay	      511	      under Art. 161 of the Constitution he is not a	      free  man to do so and that is put forward  by	      him  as an important ground in support of	 his	      plea  that he may be exempted  from  complying	      with  the relevant rule of this  Court.	This	      plea    immediately   raises   an	   important	      constitutional  question about the  scope	 and	      extent'	of  the	 powers	 conferred  on	 the	      Governor	under Art. 161 of  the	Constitution	      and that is a constitutional matter which	 has	      to  be heard by a Constitution Bench  of	this	      Court.   We  would  accordingly  direct	that	      notice of this application should be served on	      the  Attorney General and the State of  Bombay	      and  the papers in this application should  be	      placed  before  the learned Chief	 Justice  to			    enable   him  to  direct  in  due  course,	 in	      consultation with the parties concerned,	when	      this application should be placed for  hearing	      before the Constitution Bench ".After the aforesaid order of this Court, it appears that  onJuly  6, the petitioner swore an affidavit in Bombay to	 theeffect	that  his application aforesaid for  exemption	fromcompliance  with the requirements of r. 5 of 0. XXI  of	 theRules  had  been made under a misapprehension of  the  legalposition  and that the true position had been  indicated  inthe  judgment of the Special Bench of the Bombay High  Courtto  the	 effect that r. 5 of 0. XXI of the Rules  would	 notapply to his case in view of the Governor's order  aforesaidand that, therefore, his special leave petition be  directedto be listed for admission.  It is apparent that this changein  the petitioner's position as regards the  necessity	 forsurrender  is clearly an afterthought.	Certainly,  it	cameafter  the  Division Bench had directed	 the  constitutionalmatter to be heard as a preliminary question.That is how the matter has come before us.  Before we  heardthe  learned  Advocate General of Bombay,  and	the  learnedAdditional  Solicitor-General  on  behalf of  the  Union  ofIndia,	we enquired of Shri J. B. Dadachanji,  Advocate	 forthe  petitioner, whether the petitioner was prepared to	 gethimself	 released  from	 the Governor's order  in  order  topresent himself in this66512Court  so  that the hearing of his  special  leave  petitionmight  proceed in the ordinary course, but he was not  in  aposition to make a categorical answer and preferred to	havethe  constitutional question determined on its	merits.	  Wehad the assistance of Mr. C. B. Aggarwala, who very properlyvolunteered  his services as amicus curiae to represent	 theother view point.  In this Court also the situation was	 thesame as in the High Court, namely, that unless there was  anamicus	curiae	to represent the opposite  view	 point,	 theparties	 represented  before  us  were	not  contesting	 thevalidity of the Governor's order.  Both here and in the HighCourt,	it was at the instance of the Court itself that	 thematter	has  been  placed for  hearing	on  the	 preliminaryquestion before dealing with the merits of the	petitioner'scase.The  learned Advocate General of Bombay has argued with	 hisusual vehemence and clarity of expression that the power  ofpardon,	  including  the  lesser  power	 of  remission	 andsuspension of a sentence etc. is of a plenary character	 andis  unfettered ; that it is to be exercised not as a  matterof  course,  but  in  special  circumstances  requiring	 theintervention  of the Head of the Executive; that  the  powercould  be exercised at any time after the commission  of  anoffence; that this power being in the nature of exercise  ofsovereign power is vested in the Head of the State and	has,in some respects, been modified by statute ; that the  powerof  pardon  may be exercised unconditionally or	 subject  tocertain conditions to be imposed by the authority exercisingthe  power; that such conditions should not be	illegal	 orimpossible of performance or against public policy.  It	 wasfurther	 argued	 that the power of pardon is vested  in	 theHead  of  the  State  as an  index  of	sovereign  authorityirrespective of the form of Government.	 Thus the  Presidentof  the	 United States of America and Governors	 of  States,besides,  in  some cases Committees, have been	vested	withthose  powers, which cannot be derogated from by a  Legisla-ture.  So far as India is concerned, before the Constitutioncame into effect such powers have been regulated by statute,of course, subject to the power of the513Crown	itself.	  After	 the  Constitution,  the  power	  iscontained  in Art. 72 in respect of the President, and	Art.161 in respect of the Governor of a State.  Articles 72	 and161 are without any words of limitation, unlike the power ofthe Supreme Court contained in Arts. 136, 142, 145 and otherArticles  of  the  Constitution.  Hence,  what	was  once  aprerogative  of the Crown has now or crystallized  into	 thecommon law of England and statute in India'. for example, s.401  of the Code of Criminal Procedure, or Arts. 72 and	 161of  the Constitution.  He particularly emphasised  that	 thetwo  powers,  namely, the power of the	Executive  to  grantpardon, in its comprehensive sense, and of the Judiciary arecompletely  apart  and	separate and  there  cannot  be	 anyquestion  of  a	 conflict between  them,  because  they	 areessentially different, the one from the other.	The power ofpardon is essentially an executive action.  It is  exercisedin aid of justice and not in defiance of it.  With referenceto  the particular question, now before us, namely, how	 farthe  exercise of the executive power of pardon contained  inthose  two  Articles  of the Constitution  can	be  said  toimpinge	 on  the judicial functions of this  Court,  it	 wasargued	that  r.  5 of 0. XXI of the  Rules  of	 this  Courtpostulates the existence of a sentence of imprisonment	and,as in this case, as a result of the Governor's order,  thereis no such sentence running there could not be any  questionof the one trespassing into the field of the other.  Rule  5aforesaid of this Court represents the well settled practiceof  this Court, as of other Courts, that a person  convictedand  sentenced	to  a term of  imprisonment  should  not  bepermitted to be in contempt of the order of this Court, thatis  to	say, should not be permitted to move  the  appellatecourt  without	surrendering  to  the  sentence.   But	 thepetitioner  is	not in such contempt, because r. 5  did	 notapply to him.  The order of sentence against him having beensuspended, he is not disobeying any rule or process of	thisCourt or of the High Court.  The power of the Supreme  Courtto make rules is subject to two limitations, namely, (1)  toany law made by Parliament and (2) the	 approval   of	 thePresident.  On the other hand,514Arts.  72  and	161  enshrine  the  plenary  powers  of	 thesovereign State to grant pardon etc., and are not subject toany  limitations.   There could, therefore, be	no  conflictbetween	 these two, and if there were any conflict  at	all,the limited powers of the Court must yield to the  unlimitedpowers	of the Executive.  As regards the condition  imposedby  the	 Governor,  subject to	which  the  sentence  passedagainst the petitioner had been suspended, the condition wasnot   illegal,	because	 it  did  not  offend  against	 anyperemptory  or mandatory provisions of law.  It is  not	 thesame  thing to say that the condition was not authorised  bylaw  as to say that the condition was illegal, in the  sensethat it did what was forbidden by law.	We were referred  tothe  various provisions of the Indian Navy Act (Act LXII  of1957)  to show that there were no provisions which could  besaid  to have been contravened by the condition attached  tothe  order of suspension by the Governor.  Furthermore,	 thenaval  custody	in which the petitioner continues  had	beensubmitted  to by the petitioner and what has been  consentedto cannot be illegal, though it may not have been authorisedby  law.  Lastly, it was contended that the  observation  ofthe  High  Court in the last paragraph of its  judgment	 wasentirely uncalled for, because once it is held, as was	heldby  the	 High  Court,  that the	 Governor's  order  was	 notunconstitutional, it was not open to the High Court to	makeobservations  which  would  suggest that  the  Governor	 hadexercised  his	power improperly.  If the  exercise  of	 thepower by the Governor is not subject to any conditions,	 andis not justifiable, it was not within the power of the	HighCourt  even  to suggest that the Governor  should  not	havepassed	the  order  in	question.   The	 learned  AdditionalSolicitor General adopted the able arguments of the AdvocateGeneral	 and  added that, in terms, there  was	no  conflictbetween Arts. 142 and 161 of the Constitution.Mr.  C. B. Aggarwala, to whom the Court is obliged  for	 hisable  assistance to the Court, argued that the	exercise  ofthe  rule  making power by the Supreme Court is not  a	merestatutory power, but is a constitutional privilege; that theSupreme Court alone could515lay  down  rules  and conditions in  accordance	 with  whichapplications for special leave to appeal to the Court  couldbe  entertained	 ;  that the  material	rule  governing	 thepresent case was made under the constitutional power of	 theSupreme	 Court under Art. 145 and that the  Advocate-Generalwas  in error in describing it as subordinate legislation  ;that 'the fact that the rules made by this Court under	Art.145  of	 the  Constitution  require  the  approval  of	 thePresident  cannot convert them into rules made under  a	 lawenacted in pursuance of power conferred, either by Art.	 123or  Art. 245 of the Constitution; that the  underlying	ideabehind	r. 5 of 0. XXI of the Rules of this Court is to	 seethat  the petitioner to this Court or the  appellant  shouldremain	under'	the  directions of  the	 Court;	 that  theGovernor  by passing the order in question has deprived	 theSupreme Court of its power in respect of the custody of	 theconvicted  person ; that the power under Art. 161 has to  beexercised  within  the limits laid down by Art. 154  of	 theConstitution.  It was also argued that the petitioner  couldhave  got his relief from this Court itself when he  put  inhis application for special leave and that in such a  situa-tion  the  Executive should not have intervened.   In  otherwords,	the contention was that, like the Courts of  Equity,which intervened in aid of justice when law was of no  availto  the litigant, the Executive also should  exercise  theirpower only where the courts have not been clothed with amplepower	to   grant  adequate  relief   in   the	  particularcircumstances  governing  the case.  It was  further  arguedthat on a true construction of the provisions of the law andthe Constitution, it would appear that the Governor's  powerextends only up to a stage and no more, that is to say,	 theGovernor  could suspend the operation of the  sentence	onlyuntil  the Supreme Court was moved by way of  special  leaveand then it was for the Court to grant or to refuse bail  tothe petitioner.	 Once the Court has passed an order in	thatrespect, the Governor could not intervene so as to interferewith the orders of the Court.  Alternatively, it was  arguedthat,  even  assuming that an order of suspension  in  termsmade by the Governor,516could	at  all	 be  passed  during  the  pendency  of	 theapplication for leave to appeal to this Court, such an ordercould  be  passed  only by the President,  and	not  by	 theGovernor.  In any view of the matter, it was further argued,the  Governor could pass an order contemplated by Art.	161,but  could  not add a condition, as he did  in	the  presentcase, which was an illegal condition.  It was further arguedthat the generality of the expressions used in s. 401 of theCriminal  Procedure Code has to be out down by the  specificprovisions  of	s. 426 of that Code.  In other	words,	whenthere  is an appeal pending or is intended to be  preferred,during	that limited period, the trial court itself  or	 theappellate  court, has to exercise its judicial	function  inthe  matter  of	 granting bail etc. ;  and  the	 appropriateGovernment is to stay its hands during that time.Before	dealing	 with the main question as to  what  is	 thescope  of the power conferred upon the Governor by Art.	 161of  the Constitution, it will be convenient to review  in  ageneral way the law of pardon in the background of which thecontroversy has to be determined.  Pardon is one of the manyprerogatives   which   have  been  recognised	since	timeimmemorial  as being vested in the sovereign,  wherever	 thesovereignty might lie.	Whether the sovereign happened to bean   absolute	monarch	  or  a	 popular   republic   or   aconstitutional	king or queen, sovereignty has	always	beenassociated with the source of power-the power to appoint  ordismiss	 public	 servants,  the power  to  declare  war	 andconclude  peace,  the power to legislate and  the  power  toadjudicate upon all kinds of disputes.	The King, using	 theterm  in a most comprehensive sense, has been the symbol  ofthe  sovereignty of the State from whom emanate	 all  power,authority and jurisdictions.  As kingship was supposed to beof  divine  origin, an absolute king had  no  difficulty  inproclaiming and enforcing his divine right to govern,  whichincludes  the right to rule, to administer and	to  dispensejustice.  It is a historical fact that it was this claim  ofdivine	right  of  kings that brought the  Stuart  Kings  ofEngland in conflict with Parliament as the517spokesman  of the people.  We know that as a result of	thisstruggle  between the King, as embodiment of absolute  powerin all respects, and Parliament, as the champion of  popularliberty,  ultimately emerged the constitutional head of	 theGovernment in the person of the King who, in theory,  wieldsall  the  power,  but,	in practice,  laws  are	 enacted  byParliament,  the  executive power vests in  members  of	 theGovernment,  collectively called the Cabinet,  and  judicialpower  is vested in a Judiciary appointed by the  Governmentin the name of His Majesty.  Thus, in theory, His Majesty orHer  Majesty continues to appoint the Judges of the  highestcourts,	 the  members  of  the	Government  and	 the  publicservants,  who	hold  office  during  the  pleasure  of	 thesovereign.   As a result of historical processes  emerged  aclear cut division of governmental functions into executive,legislative and judicial.  Thus was established the "  Rule,of Law " which has been the pride of Great Britain and whichwas  highlighted  by  Prof.  Dicey.  The  Rule	of  Law,  incontradistinction  to the rule of man, includes	 within	 itswide connotation the absence of arbitrary power,  submissionto the ordinary law of the land, and the equal protection ofthe laws.  As a result of the historical process  aforesaid,the  absolute and arbitrary power of the monarch came to  becanalised  into	 three	distinct wings	of  the	 Government.There  has  been  a  progressive  increase  in	the   power,authority  and	jurisdiction  of  the  three  wings  of	 theGovernment  and a corresponding diminution of  absolute	 andarbitrary  power  of the King.	It may, therefore,  be	saidthat  the prerogatives of the Crown in England,	 which	werewide  and varied, have been progressively curtailed  with  acorresponding	increase   in  the  power,   authority	 andjurisdiction  of the three wings of Government, so  much  sothat most of the prerogatives of the Crown, though in theorythey have continued to be vested in it, are now exercised inhis   Dame  by	the  Executive,	 the  Legislature  and	 theJudiciary.  This dispersal of the Sovereign's absolute poweramongst the three wings of Government has now518become the norm of division of power; and the prerogative isno  greater  than what the law allows.	 In  the  celebrateddecision  of  the  House of Lords in the  case	of  AttorneyGeneral	 v.  De	 Keyser's Royal	 Hotel,	 Limited  (1)  whichinvolved   the	right  of  the	Crown  by  virtue   of	 itsprerogative,  to.  take possession of private  property	 foradministrative	purposes in connection with the	 defence  ofthe realm, it was held by the House of Lords that the  Crownwas  not entitled by virtue of its prerogative or under	 anystatute,  to  take  possession of property  belonging  to  acitizen	  for	the  purposes  aforesaid,   without   payingcompensation for use and occupation.It was argued by Sir John Simon, K. C., for the	 respondentsthat:-	      "	 The  prerogative  has	been  defined  by  a	      learned	 author	  as   'the    residue	  of	      discretionary or arbitrary' authority which at	      any given time is legally left in the hands of	      the  Crown'.  It is the ultimate	resource  of	      the   executive,	and  when  there  exists   a	      statutory	 provision  covering  precisely	 the	      same  ground there is no longer any  room	 for	      the exercise of the Royal Prerogative.  It has	      been  taken  away	 by  necessary	 implication	      because  the two rights cannot  live  together	      (See p. 518 of the Report).This  argument on behalf of the respondents appears to	havebeen  accepted	by Lord Dunedin, who delivered	the  leadingopinion of the House in these terms:		"  The prerogative is defined by a  learned	      constitutional  writer  as '  the	 residue  of	      discretionary or arbitrary authority which  at	      any given time is legally left in the hands of	      the Crown-'.  Inasmuch as the Crown is a party	      to  every	 Act  of Parliament  it	 is  logical	      enough  to  consider that when the  Act  deals	      with  something which before the Act could  be	      effected	by  the prerogative,  and  specially	      empowers	the Crown to do the same thing,	 but	      subject  to conditions, the Crown assents	 to	      that,  and  by that Act,	to  the	 prerogative	      being curtailed ". (See p. 526 of the Report).This position has been recognised in Halsbury's Laws(1)  [1920] A.C. 508.519of  England,  Volume 7, Third Edition, at p. 221,  in  thesewords:- .lm15" The prerogative is thus created and limited by the  commonlaw, and the Sovereign can claim no prerogatives except suchas the law allows, nor such as are contrary to Magna  Carta,or any other statute, or to the liberties of the subject.The courts have jurisdiction, therefore, to inquire into theexistence or extent of any alleged prerogative..... .We  have......	thus  briefly set out  the  history  of	 the'genesis  and development of the Royal Prerogative of  Mercybecause	 Mr. Seervai has strongly emphasised that the  RoyalPrerogative  of	 Mercy	is wide and  absolute,	and  can  beexercised  at  any  time.   Very  elaborate  arguments	wereaddressed by him before us on this 'aspect of the matter andseveral	 English and American decisions were cited.   In  sofar  as	 his  argument was that the  power  to	suspend	 thesentence is a part of the larger power of granting pardon itmay  be	 relevant  to consider incidentally  the  scope	 andextent of the said larger power; but, as we shall  presentlypoint  out, the controversy raised by the  present  petitionlies  within a very narrow compass; and so concentration  onthe wide and absolute character of the power to grant pardonand over-emphasis on judicial decisions which deal  directlywith  the  said question would not be very helpful  for	 ourpresent purpose.  In fact we apprehend that entering into anelaborate discussion about the scope and effect of the	saidlarger	power, in the light of relevant judicial  decisions,is likely to create confusion and to distract attention fromthe  essential features of the very narrow point that  fallsto be considered in the present case.  That is why we do notpropose	 to enter into a discussion of the said topic or  torefer to the several decisions cited under that topic.Let  us now turn to the law on the subject as it obtains  inIndia  since the Code of Criminal Procedure was	 enacted  in1898.  Section 401 of the Code gives power to the  executiveto suspend the execution of67520the  sentence  or  remit  the  whole  or  any  part  of	 thepunishment  without conditions or upon any conditions  whichthe  person sentenced accepts.	Section 402 gives  power  tothe executive without the consent of the person sentenced tocommute	 a sentence of death into imprisonment for life	 andalso other sentences into sentences less rigorous in nature.In  addition  the Governor-General had	been  delegated	 thepower  to  exercise them prerogative power  vesting  in	 HisMajesty.   Sub-section	(5)  of s. 401	also  provides	thatnothing	 contained in it shall be deemed to  interfere	withthe right of His Majesty, or the Governor-General when	suchright  is  delegated to him, to	 grant	pardons,  reprieves,respites   or  remissions  of  punishment.   This   positioncontinued  till	 the  Constitution  came  into	force.	 Twoprovisions were introduced in the Constitution to cover	 theformer	royal prerogative relating to pardon, and they	areArts.  72 and 161.  Article 72 deals with the power  of	 thePresident   to	 grant	pardons,  reprieves,   respites	  orremissions of punishment or to suspend, remit or commute thesentence  of any person convicted of any  offence.   Article161  gives  similar power to the Governor of  a	 State	withrespect to offenses against any law relating to a matter  to which  the executive power of the State extends.   Sections401  and  402  of the Code  have  continued  with  necessarymodifications to bring them into line with Arts. 72 and 161.It  will  be seen, however, that Arts. 72 and 161  not	onlydeal with pardons and reprieves which were within the  royalprerogative  but have also included what is provided in	 ss.401  and 402 of the Code.  Besides the general power,  thereis  also provision in ss. 337 and 338 of the Code to  tenderpardon to an accomplice under certain conditions.In  this case we are primarily concerned with the extent  ofthe  power  of	pardon vested in the State  so	far  as	 theGovernor  is  concerned	 by Art.  161  of  the	ConstitutionArticle 161 is in these terms:	      "1  The  Governor of a State  shall  have	 the	      power to grant pardons, reprieves, respites or	      remissions of punishment or to suspend,  remit	      or   commute  the	 sentence  of	any   person	      convicted of any offence against	      521	      any  law	relating to a matter  to  which	 the	      executive power of the State extends."Though	Art. 161 does not make any reference to Art.  72  ofthe  Constitution, the power of the Governor of a  State  togrant pardon etc. to some extent overlaps the same power  ofthe  President,	 particularly in the case of a	sentence  ofdeath.	 Articles 72 and 161 are in very general terms.	  Itis,  therefore,	 argued	 that they are not  subject  to	 anylimitations  and  the respective area of exercise  of  powerunder these two Articles is indicated separately in  respectof  the	 President and of the Governor of a  State.   It  isfurther	 argued that the exercise of power under  these	 twoArticles is not fettered by the provisions of Arts. 142	 and145  of	 the,  Constitution or by any  other  law.   Article142(1) is in these terms:-	      "	 The  Supreme Court in the exercise  of	 its	      jurisdiction may pass such decree or make such	      order  as	 is  necessary	for  doing  complete	      justice in any cause or matter pending  before	      it, and any decree so passed or order so	made	      shall be enforceable throughout the  territory	      of  India in such manner as may be  prescribed	      by  or under any law made by  Parliament	and,	      until provision in that behalf is so made,  in	      such  manner  as the President  may  by  order	      prescribe."It  will be seen that it consists of two parts.	  The  firstpart  gives  power  to this Court in  the  exercise  of	 itsjurisdiction  to pass such decree or make such order  as  isnecessary for doing complete justice in any cause or  matterpending	  before  it.	The  second  part  deals  with	 theenforcement of the order passed by this Court.	Article	 145gives power to this Court with the approval of the Presidentto  make  rules for regulating generally  the  practice	 andprocedure  of the Court.  It is obvious that the rules	madeunder  Art. 145 are in aid of the power given to this  Courtunder Art. 142 to pass such decree or make such order as  isnecessary for doing complete justice in any cause or  matterpending	 before it.  Rule 5 of 0. XXI of the Rules  of	thisCourt was framed under Art. 145 and is in these terms:-	      "Where the- petitioner has been sentenced to a	      522	      term of imprisonment, the petition shall state	      whether	the  petitioner	  has	surrendered.	      Unless   the  Court  otherwise   orders,	 the	      petition shall not be posted for hearing until	      the   petitioner	 has  surrendered   to	 his	      sentence."This  rule was, in terms, introduced into the Supreme  CourtRules  last  year and it only crystallized  the	 preexistingpractice  of this Court, which is also the practice  in	 theHigh  Courts.	That  practice is based on  the	 very  soundprinciple which was recognised long ago by the Full Bench ofthe  High Court of Judicature, North Western  Provinces,  in1870, in the case of The Queen v. Bisheshar Pershad (1).  Inthat  case no order of conviction had been passed.   Only  awarrant had been issued against the accused and as the	war-rant.  had  been returned unserved a proclamation  had	beenissued	and  attachment of the property of the	accused	 hadbeen  ordered, with a view to compelling him  to  surrender.The  validity of the warrant had been challenged before	 theHigh  Court.   The  High  Court	 refused  to  entertain	 hispetition  until he had surrendered because he was deemed  tobe  in	contempt of a lawfully constituted  authority.	 Theaccused	 person in pursuance of the order of the High  Courtsurrendered  and  after he bad surrendered, the	 matter	 wasdealt with by the High Court on its merits.  But as observedabove the Rules framed under Art. 145 are only in aid of thepowers	of this Court under Art. 142 and the  main  questionthat  falls  for  consideration is,  whether  the  order  ofsuspension  passed  by	the Governor under  Art.  161  couldoperate when this Court had been moved for granting  specialleave  to  appeal from the judgment and order  of  the	HighCourt.	 As  soon as the petitioner put in  a  petition	 forspecial leave to appeal the matter became sub-judice in thisCourt.	 This  Court under its Rules could insist  upon	 thepetitioner  surrendering  to  his sentence  as	a  conditionprecedent  to  his being heard by this	Court,	though	thisCourt could dispense with and in a proper case could  exempthim  from  the operation of that rule.	It is  not  disputedthat  this Court has the power to stay the execution of	 thesentence and to grant bail pending the(1)  Vol. 2, N.W.P. High Court Reports, P. 441.523disposal  of  the application for special leave	 to  appeal.Rule  28 of 0. XXI of the Rules does not cover that  period,but  even  so the power of the Court under Art. 142  of	 theConstitution  to make such order as is necessary  for  doingcomplete justice in this case was not disputed and it  wouldbe open to this Court even while an application for  specialleave is pending to grant bail under the powers it has underArt. 142 to pass any order in any matter which is  necessaryfor doing complete justice.But  it has been argued that, even as the terms of Art.	 161are without any limitation, the provisions of s. 401 of	 theCode of Criminal Procedure are also in similarly wide terms,and do not admit of any limitation's or fetters on the powerof the Governor; the Governor could, therefore, suspend	 theexecution  of  the sentence passed by the  High	 Court	evenduring the period that the matter was pending in this Court.In other words, the same power of dealing with the matter ofsuspension of sentence is vested both in this Court as	alsoin the Governor. This  immediately raises the question of the extent of	 thepower  under s.- 401 of the Code with respect to  suspensionas  compared  with the powers of tile Court  under  s.	426,which  enables	the  Court pending  appeal  to	suspend	 thesentence  or to release the appellant on bail.	It  will  beseen  from  the language of s. 426 of the Code	of  CriminalProcedure  dealing  with the power of  the  appellate  courtthat,  for reasons to be recorded in writing, the court	 mayorder  that  the execution of the sentence be  suspended  orthat if the accused is in confinement he may be released  onbail  or  on his own bond.  Section 401	 occurs	 in  ChapterXXIX,  headed " of suspensions, remissions and	commutationsof sentences ". This Chapter, therefore, does not deal	withall the powers vested in the Governor under Art. 161 of	 theConstitution, but only with some of them.  Section 426 is inChapter	 XXXI, headed as "of appeal, reference and  revision".  Section  426,  therefore,  deals  specifically  with   asituation  in which an appeal is pending and  the  appellate'court	has seisin of the case and is thus entitled to	passsuch orders as524it  thinks  fit and proper to suspend a sentence.   It	willthus  be  seen that whereas Chapter XXIX, in  which  s.	 401occurs,	 deals	with  a situation in which  pendency  of  anappeal	is not envisaged, s. 426 deals with a  situation  inwhich  pendency of an appeal is postulated. In other  words,Chapter XXIX deals with persons sentenced to punishment	 foran  offence  simpliciter in general terms,  whereas  s.	 426deals  with a special case and therefore must be out of	 theoperation  of s. 401.  But it has been vehemently argued  bythe -learned Advocate General that the words "at any  time"indicate that the power conferred by s. 401 may be exercisedwithout any limitation of time.	 In the context of s. 401  "any  time " can only mean after conviction.  It cannot	meanbefore	conviction,  because there cannot  be  any  sentencebefore	conviction.  The question then is: " Does  it  coverthe entire period after the order of conviction and sentenceeven when an appeal is pending in the appellate court and s.426 can be availed of by the appellant ?"It  will  be  seen that s. 426 is  as  unfettered  by  otherprovisions  of the Code as s. 401 with this difference	thatpowers	under s. 426 can only be exercised by  an  appellatecourt pending an appeal.  When both the provisions are	thusunfettered, they have to be harmonised so that there may  beno  conflict between them.  They can be	 harmonised  withoutany  difficulty,  if s. 426 is held to deal with  a  specialcase  restricted to the period while the appeal	 is  pendingbefore	an  appellate  court while s.  401  deals  with	 theremainder  of  the  period  after  conviction.	 We  see  nodifficulty in adopting this interpretation nor is there	 anydiminution of powers conferred on the executive by s. 401 bythis interpretation.  The words " at , any time "  emphasisethat  the power under s. 401 can be exercised without  limitof  time, but they do not necessarily lead to the  inferencethat  this  power can also be exercised while the  court  isseized of the same matterunder s. 426.Turning	 now  to  Arts. 142 and 161,  the  argument  of	 Mr.Seervai	 is that though this Court has the power to  suspendsentence or grant bail pending hearing of the525special	 leave petition, that would not affect the power  ofthe  executive	to  grant a pardon, using the  term  in	 itscomprehensive  sense, as indicated above.  Reference was  inthis  connection  made to Balmukand and others v.  The	KingEmperor	 (1).  That was a case where a convicted person	 hadmoved His Majesty in Council for special leave to appeal andthe  question  arose  as to the power of  the  executive  tosuspend	 the sentence.	In that connection Lord Haldane,  L.C., made the following observations:-	      "With  regard  to	 staying  execution  of	 the	      sentence of death, their Lordships are  unable	      to  interfere.  As they have often said,	this	      Board is not a Court of Criminal Appeal.	 The	      tendering	 of advice to His Majesty as to	 the	      exercise	of  his prerogative of pardon  is  a	      matter  for  the Executive Government  and  is	      outside their Lordships' province.  It is,  of	      course,  open to the petitioners' advisers  to	      notify the Government of India that an  appeal	      to  this Board is pending.  The Government  of	      India  will  no doubt give due weight  to	 the	      fact  and	 consider  the	circumstances.	 But	      their  Lordships	do  not think  it  right  to	      express any opinion as to whether the sentence	      ought to be suspendedThese observations were made because the Judicial  Committeeof  the Privy Council, unlike the Supreme Court, was  not  aCourt  of  criminal  appeal and therefore  the	question  ofsuspending  the operation of the sentence of death  was	 notwithin	their  judicial purview.  The  granting	 of  specialleave  by the Privy Council was an example of the  residuarypower  of the, Sovereign to exercise his judicial  functionsby  way of his prerogative and therefore the petitioner	 wasleft free in that case to approach the Government of  India,as  the	 delegate 'of the Sovereign, to	 exercise  the	pre-rogative power in view of the circumstance that an appeal tothe Privy Council was intended.	 The footnote to the  Reportalso contains the following:	      "	 The  petitioners  were	 reprieved  by	 the	      Government of India pending the hearing of the	      petition for leave to appeal". (see p. 134).	       (1) (1915) 42, I. A. 133.	      526It  is	noteworthy that the reprieve granted  in  that	casecovered	 only the period until the grant or refusal  of	 thepetition for leave to appeal and did not go further so as tocover  the  period of pendency of the appeal  to  the  PrivyCouncil,  unlike the order now impugned in this	 case.	 Thepower  which was vested in the Crown to grant special  leaveto  appeal  to	convicted persons from India  has  now	beenconferred  on  this Court under Art. 136.  The	power  underArt.  136  can be exercised in respect of  "  any  judgment,decree,	 determination,	 sentence or order in any  cause  ormatter	passed	or  made by any court  or  tribunal  in	 theterritory  of India ". This wide and comprehensive power  inrespect	 of any determination by any court or tribunal	mustcarry  with  it	 the  power to	pass  orders  incidental  orancillary  to  the exercise of that power.  Hence  the	widepowers	given  to this Court under Art. 142 " to  make	suchorder  as  is necessary for doing complete  justice  in	 anycause  or matter pending before it ". As already  indicated,the  power of this Court to pass an order of  suspension  ofsentence  or to grant bail pending the disposal of the	app-lication  for special leave to appeal has not been  disputedand  could not have been disputed keeping in view  the	verywide terms in which Art. 142 is worded.	 When an applicationfor  special  leave to appeal from a judgment and  order  ofconviction and sentence passed by a High Court is made, thisCourt  has been issuing orders of interim bail	pending	 thehearing and disposal of the application for special leave asalso  during the pendency of the appeal to this Court  afterspecial	 leave	has  been  granted.   So  if  Mr.  Seervai'sargument  is  correct that the pendency of a  special  leaveapplication  in	 this  Court  makes  no	 difference  to	 theexercise of the power by the executive under Art. 161,	thenboth the judiciary and the executive have to function in thesame field at the same time.  Mr. Seervai however  contendedthat there could never be a conflict between the exercise ofthe  power by the Governor under Art. 161 and by this  Courtunder Art. 142 because the power under Art. 161 is executivepower and the power under Art. 142 is judicial power527and  the  two  do not act in the same field.   That  in	 ouropinion	 is over-simplification of the matter.	It  is	truethat the power under Art. 161 is exercised by the  executivewhile the power under Art. 142 is that of the judiciary; butmerely	because	 one  power is executive and  the  other  isjudicial,  it  does  not  follow  that	they  can  never  beexercised  in the same field.  The field in which the  poweris  exercised does not depend upon the authority  exercisingthe  power but upon the subject-matter.	 What is  the  powerwhich  is being exercised in this case ? The power is  beingexercised  by  the executive to suspend the  sentence;	thatpower  can be exercised by this Court under Art.  142.	 Thefield  in  which the power is being exercised  is  also	 thesame,  namely, the suspension of the sentence passed upon  aconvicted  person.   It is significant that  the  Governor'spower has been exercised in the present case by reference tothe  appeal  which the petitioner intended to file  in	thisCourt.	 There can therefore be no doubt that  the  judicialpower under Art. 142 and the Executive power under Art.	 161can  within certain narrow limits be exercised in  the	samefield.	 The  question	that immediately arises	 is  one  ofharmonious   construction   of	 two   provisions   of	 theConstitution,  as  one is not made subject to the  other  byspecific words in the Constitution itself As already pointedout,  Art. 161 contains no words of limitation; in the	sameway,  Art.  142 contains no words of limitation and  in	 thefields covered by them they are unfettered.  But if there isany  field  which  is  common  to  both,  the  principle  ofharmonious construction will. have to be adopted in order toavoid  conflict	 between the two powers.  It will  be seenthat the ambit of Art. 161 is very much wider and it is onlyin a very narrow field that the power contained in Art.	 161is  also  contained  in	 Art.  142,  namely,  the  power  ofsuspension of sentence during the period when the matter  issub-judice  in	this Court.  Therefore on the  principle  ofharmonious construction and to avoid a conflict between	 thetwo powers it must be held that Art. 161 does not deal	withthe suspension of sentence during the time that 68528Art.  142 is in operation and the matter is sub-judice	  inthis Court.In this connection it is well to contrast the language of s.209(3)	and s. 295(2) of the Government of India Act,  1935.Section	 209(3) gave power to the Federal Court to  order  astay  of  execution in any case under appeal to	 the  Court,pending the hearing of the appeal.  Section 295(2)  providedthat  nothing in this Act shall derogate from the  right  ofHis Majesty, or of the Governor General if any such right isdelegated   to	him  by	 His  Majesty,	to  grant   pardons,reprieves,  respites  or remissions of punishments.  It	 mayhave been possible to argue on the language of s.295(2) thatthe prerogative exercised by His Majesty transcended thepower of the Federal Court under s. 209(3);but	 when	wecompare	 the language of Arts. 72 and 161 with the  languageof  s.	295(2) of the Government of India Act,	we  find  nowords	like  "	 Nothing  in  this  Constitution  "   or   "Notwithstanding anything contained in this Constitution " inthem.	Such  words have been used in many articles  of	 theConstitution:  (See for example, Art. 262(2) which  providesspecifically for taking away by Parliament by law the  powerof this Court in disputes relating to water and begins	with words"  Notwithstanding anything in this  Constitution  ").The  absence therefore of any such qualifying words in	Art.161 makes the power of this Court under Art. 142 of the samewide  amplitude within its sphere as the power conferred  onthe  Governor  under Art. 161.	Therefore if  there  is	 anyfield  where the two powers can be exercised  simultaneouslythe principle of harmonious construction has to be  resortedto in order that there may not be any conflict between them.On that principle the power under Art. 142 which operates ina very small part of the field in which the power under Art.161  operates,	namely,	 the  suspension  and  execution  ofsentence during the period when any matter is sub-judice  inthis  Court,  must be held not to be included in  the  widerpower conferred under Art. 161.In  this  connection Mr. Seervai drew our attention  to	 thepower of nolle prosequi.  It may be mentioned529that  power is not analogous to the power of par. don thoughits  exercise may result in a case in a court coming  to  anend.  Similar powers are contained in ss. 333 and 494 of theCode  of  Criminal Procedure.  The fact	 that  the  AdvocateGeneral	 in  the one case and the Public Prosecutor  in	 theother  can bring a prosecution to an end has in our  opinionno  bearing on the question raised in the present case.	  Inany  case  action  under s. 333 of the	Code  results  in  adischarge  only	 and may leave it open, for  example,  to  aprivate	 party	to  bring a complaint in  the  proper  courtunless the presiding judge directs that the discharge shallamount	to an acquittal.  Under s. 494 the withdrawal  of  acase can only take place with the consent of the Court.	  Inany case these proceedings being not in the nature of pardonor  suspension or remission or commutation of sentence	haveno bearing on the' question before us.In the present case, the question is limited to the exerciseby  the	 Governor  of  his powers  under  Art.	161  of	 theConstitution suspending the sentence during the pendency  ofthe special leave petition and the appeal to this Court; andthe controversy has narrowed down to whether for the  periodwhen this Court is in seizin of the case the Governor couldpass the impugned order, having the effect of suspending thesentence during that period.  There can be no doubt that  itis  open to the Governor to grant a full pardon at any	timeeven  during  the  pendency of the case	 in  this  Court  inexercise  of what is ordinarily called " mercy	jurisdiction". Such a pardon after the accused person has been convictedby'  the  Court has the effect of completely  absolving	 himfrom  all  Punishment  or disqualification  attaching  to  aconviction   for   a  criminal	offence.   That	  power	  isessentially vested in the head of the Executive, because thejudiciary  has	no  such  'mercy  jurisdiction'.   But	 thesuspension of the sentence for the period when this Court isin seizin of the case could have been granted by this  Courtitself	If in respect of the same period the  Governor	alsohas  power-to suspend the sentence, it would mean that	boththe judiciary and the executive would be530functioning  in the same field at the same time	 leading  tothe  possibility of conflict of jurisdiction.  Such  a	con-flict was not and could not have been intended by the makersof  the Constitution.  But it was contended by	Mr.  Seervaithat the words of the Constitution, namely, Art. 161 do	 notwarrant the conclusion that the power was in any way limitedor  fettered.	In  our opinion there is a  fallacy  in	 theargument  in  so  far  as  it  postulates  what	 has  to  beestablished, namely, that the Governor's power was  absoluteand  not fettered in any way. go long as the  judiciary	 hasthe  power to pass a particular order in a pending  case  tothat extent the power of the Executive is limited in view ofthe words either of ss. 401 and 426 of the Code of  CriminalProcedure  and	Arts. 142 and 161 of the  Constitution.	  Ifthat  is the correct interpretation to be put on  these	 provisions in order to harmonise them it would follow that whatis  covered  in	 Art. 142 is not covered  by  Art.  161	 andsimilarly  what	 is covered by s. 426 is not covered  by  s.401.  On that interpretation Mr. Seervai .Would be right  inhis  contention	 that  there  is  no  conflict	between	 theprerogative power of the sovereign state to grant pardon andthe  power  of	the  courts to	deal  with  a  pending	cagejudicially.In  this connection it may be relevant to deal with  anotherargument urged by Mr. Seervai in respect of the rule  framedby this Court under 0. 21, r. 5. He contended that Art.	 145under which rules have been framed by this Court is in termssubject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament, andhe  also emphasised the fact that before the rules can	comeinto  force  they  have	 to  obtain  the  approval  of	 thePresident.   In other words, the argument is that the  rule-making	power  of  this Court is no  more  than	 subordinatelegislation, and so if there is a conflict between 0. 21, r.5  and Art. 161 the rule must yield to the powers  conferredon  the Governor by Art. 161.  This argument  overlooks	 thefact  that  in	substance and effect  the  conflict  is	 notbetween	 the  said rule and Art. 161 but  between  the	widepowers conferred on this Court by Art. 142 and similar	widepowers conferred on the Governor under Art. 161.  It would,531therefore, be fallacious to suggest that compliance with therule  would become unnecessary because a higher power  underArt.  161 has been exercised by the Governor, and so in	 theface of the order passed by the Governor there is no  longerany need to comply with the rule.  We have already  referredto  the	 genesis of this rule and we have pointed  out	thatthough	the  rule may have been framed under  Art.  145	 thesource	of  the	 power of this Court to	 grant	bail  or  tosuspend	 sentence  pending hearing of  any  criminal  matterbefore	it is not the said rule nor Art. 145 but  Art.	142;that being so, what we have to decide in the present case iswhether	 having	 regard to the width and  amplitude  of	 thepowers conferred on this Court and the Governor by Arts. 142and  161 respectively it would not be reasonable and  properto harmonise the said two articles in such a way as to avoidany  conflict between the said two powers.  In the  decisionof  this question the legal character of the rules that	 maybe framed under Art. 145 cannot have any material bearing.In  this  connection it would be relevant to  consider	whatwould  be the logical consequence if Mr. Seervai's  argumentis  accepted.  In the present case the Governor's order	 hasbeen  passed  even before the petitioner's  application	 forspecial leave came to be heard by this Court ; indeed it waspassed before the said application was filed and the  reasonfor  passing the order is stated to be that  the  petitionerintended  to  file  an appeal before this  Court.   Let	 us,however, take a case where an application for special  leavehas  been filed in this Court, and on a motion made  by	 thepetitioner the Court has directed him to be released on bailon executing a personal bond of Rs. 10,000 and on furnishingtwo sureties of like amount.  According to Mr. Seervai, evenif  such  an  order is passed by this Court  in	 a  criminalmatter	pending before it,  would be open to the  petitionerto move the Governor for suspension of his sentence  pendingthe hearing of his application and appeal before this  Courtand  the  Governor may, in a  proper  case,  unconditionallysuspend the sentence.  In other words, Mr.532Seervai	 frankly conceded that, even in a  pending  criminalmatter before this Court, an order passed by this Court	 mayin  effect  be	set aside by the  Governor  by	ordering  anunconditional  suspension  of the sentence  imposed  on	 thepetitioner concerned.  This illustration clearly brings	 outthe  nature of the controversy which we are called  upon  todecide in this case.  If Mr. Seervai's argument is  acceptedit would inevitably mean that by exercising his power  underArt.  161  the Governor can effectively	 interfere  with  anorder passed in the same matter by this Court in exercise ofits powers under Art. 142.  It is obvious that the field  onwhich  both  the powers are operating is exactly  the  same.Should	the  sentence passed against an	 accused  person  besuspended during the hearing of an appeal on the ground thatan  appeal  is pending ? That is the  question	raised	bothbefore	this Court and before the Governor.  In such a	caseit  would  be idle to suggest that the field  on  which	 thepower  of  the Governor under Art. 161 can be  exercised  isdifferent  from the field on which the power of	 this  Courtcan-be	exercised under Art. 142.  The fact that the  powersinvoked	 are  different in character, one judicial  and	 theother executive, would not change the nature of the field oraffect	 its   identity.    We	have   given   our   anxiousconsideration to the problem raised for our decision in	 thepresent	 case and we feel no hesitation in taking  the	viewthat  any  possible  conflict in exercise of  the  said	 twopowers can be reason. ably and properly avoided by  adoptinga  harmonious  rule of construction.  Avoidance	 of  such  apossible conflict will incidentally prevent any invasion  ofthe  rule  of law which is the very foundation of  our	Con-stitution.It  has been strenuously urged before us that the  power  ofgranting pardon is wide and absolute and can be exercised atany  time,  that  is to say, it can  be	 exercised  even  inrespect	 of criminal matters which are sub judice;  and	 theargument  is that the power to suspend sentence is  part  ofthe  larger  power  to	grant  pardon,	and  is	 similar  incharacter and can be similarly exercised.  This argument  isfallacious; it ignores533the essential difference between the general power to  grantpardon	etc., and the power to suspend sentence in  criminalmatters	 pending  before  this	Court.	 The  first  is	  anexclusively  executive power vesting in the  Governor  underArt.161;  it does not vest in this Court; and so  the  fieldcovered by it is exclusively subject to the exercise of	 thesaid executive power; and so there can be no question of anyconflict  in  such  a case;  conflict  of  powers  obviouslypostulates the existence of the same or similar power in twoauthorities; on the other hand, the latter power vests	bothin this Court and the Governor, and so the field covered  bythe  said power entrusted to this Court under Art.  142	 canalso be covered by the executive power of the Governor underArt. 161, and that raises the problem of a possible conflictbetween	 the  two  powers.  That is  why  we  have  observedearlier	 that  concentration or even undue emphasis  on	 thecharacter  and sweep of the larger power to grant pardon  islikely to distract attention from the essential features  ofthe  power  to	suspend sentence with  which  alone  we	 areconcerned in the present proceedings.As  a  result of these considerations we have  come  to	 theconclusion   that  the	order  of  the	 Governor   grantingsuspension  of	the sentence could only	 operate  until	 thematter became sub judice in this Court on the filing of	 thepetition  for special leave to appeal.	After the filing  ofsuch  a	 petition this Court was seized .of the	 case  whichwould be dealt with by it in accordance with law.  It  wouldthen  be for this 'Court, when moved in that behalf,  eitherto apply r. 5 of 0. XXI or to exempt the petitioner from theoperation of that rule.	 It would be for this Court to	passsuch  orders as it thought fit as to whether the  petitionershould	be granted bail or should surrender to his  sentenceor to pass such other or further orders as this Court  mightdeem  fit in all the circumstances of the case.	 It  followsfrom  what has been said that the Governor ,had no power  togrant the suspension of sentence for the period during whichthe matter was sub judice in this Court.A great deal of argument was addressed to us as to534whether	 the condition imposed by the Governor in his  orderimpugned in this case was or was not legal.  In the view wehave  taken of the Governor's power, so far as the  relevantperiod	is  concerned,	namely, after the  case	 became	 subjudice in this Court, it is not necessary to pronounce	uponthat aspect of the controversy.In  the	 result	 the application dated April  21,  1960,  asamended	 by the affidavit of July 6, 1960, praying that	 thespecial	 leave	petition  be  listed  for  bearing   withoutrequiring  the petitioner to surrender in view of the  orderof the Governor fails and is dismissed.KAPUR  J.-I  have  had the advantage of	 reading  the  Orderproposed  by  my Lord the Chief Justice, but I regret  I  amunable to agree with it and I proceed to give my reasons:In  this  petition  which  is  brought	for  exemption	fromsurrender  to  the  sentence imposed  on  the  petitioner  aquestion  of  great constitutional  importance	arises.	 Thepetitioner submits that his sentence having  been  suspendedby the order of the Governor of the	erstwhile  State  ofBombay, the rule made by this Court as to surrender which isa condition precedent to the hearing of a petition for leaveto  appeal  against  the  judgment  of	the  High  Court  isinapplicable  to him and that it is a fit case in  which  heshould	be  exempted from the operation of  the	 rule.	 Thefacts which have given rise to this petition are set out  inthe  order.  of my Lord the Chief Justice and  need  not  berepeated here.The  decision  of  this petition depends  upon	the  nature,effect,	 extent	 and operation of the  powers  conferred  byarts. 142(1), 145 and 161 of the Constitution; how they	 areto be construed and how and to what extent, if any, they arein  conflict  or  in accord with each  other.	It  will  benecessary  to delve into the history of the  prerogative  ofpardons in England and America and see how far the law	laiddown  by  courts of those countries and-the  practice  therefollowed  is  helpful  in discovering the  true	 intent	 andpurpose of these articles of the Constitution.535Under the Indian Constitution the power to grant pardons  isvested	in  the	 President  and	 the  Governors	 of  States.Article	 72  deals  with the former and art.  161  with	 thelatter.	  Article 72 which is in Part V, Chapter 1,  dealingwith the Union Executive provides:-Art.  72. (1) " The President shall have the power to  grantpardons,  reprieves, respites or remission of punishment  orto  suspend,  remit or commute the sentence  of	 any  personconvicted of any offence.(a)...............................................................(b) in all cases where the punishment or sentence is for  anoffence	 against any law relating to a matter to  which	 theexecutive power of the Union extends;(c)in all cases where the sentence is a sentence of death.(2)...............................................................(3) Nothing in sub-clause (c) of clause (1) shall affect thepower  to  suspend,  remit or commute a	 sentence  of  deathexercisable by the Governor of a State under any law for thetime  being in force Article 161 which is in Part VI  is  asfollows :-	      " The Governor of a State shall have the power	      to  grant	 pardons,  reprieves,  respites	  or	      remissions of punishment or to suspend,  remit	      or   commute  the	 sentence  of	any   person	      convicted	 of  any  offence  against  any	 law	      relating	to a matter to which  the  executive	      power of the State extends"	      Article 142(1) is as under:-	      "	 The  Supreme Court in the exercise  of	 its	      jurisdiction may pass such decree or make such	      order  as	 is  necessary	for  doing  complete	      justice in any cause or matter pending  before	      it ".Both  articles	72  and 161 give the  widest  power  to	 thePresident or the Governor of a State as the case may be	 andthere are no words of limitation indicated in either of	 thetwo articles.  It was argued that under arts. 142 and 145(1)of  the	 Constitution certain powers are  conferred  on	 theSupreme	 Court and if the articles conferring powers on	 thePresident  and the Governors are read along with  the  powergiven to the Supreme69536Court  they  create  a	conflict and  therefore	 to  give  aharmonious  interpretation  to all the four articles  it  isnecessary to cut down the amplitude of the powers  conferredby  arts.  72  and 161 of the Constitution.   In  regard  tosuspension  of	sentences it will be fruitful to  trace	 thelegislative history of the relevant powers of the  executiveand the judiciary which arise for construction.In the Criminal Procedure Code of 1861 (Act XXV of 1861) thepower  of  the	executive  was	confined  to  remission	  ofpunishments and was contained in s. 54 which was as under:-	      S.54. " When any person has been sentenced  to	      punishment   for	an  offence,  the   Governor	      General  of  India in Council,  or  the  local	      Government,   may,   at  any   time,   without	      conditions,  or upon any condition which	such	      person  shall accept, remit the whole  or	 any	      part of the punishment to which he shall	have	      been sentenced ".This  section was in Chapter III dealing with "	 PreliminaryRules  "  which	 included  among  other	 things	 passing  ofsentences, the place of confinement of persons convicted andthe power of remission of sentences by the Governor General.In Chapter XXX dealing with appeals by s. 421 the  appellatecourt  was  given  the power to	 suspend  sentences  pendingappeals and release which was in the following terms:-S.421.	 "In any case in which an appeal is allowed,  theAppellate  Court  may, pending the appeal,  order  that	 thesentence   be  suspended,  and	if  the	 appellant   be	  inconfinement for an offence which is bailable, may order thathe be released on bail ".Then  came  the Criminal Procedure Code of 1872,  Act  X  of1872.  In Chapter XXIII dealing with execution of  sentencesthe power of the executive to remit punishment was containedin s. 322 which read as under :-S.322.	  "  When  any	person	has  been  sentenced   topunishment for an offence, the Governor General of India  inCouncil,  or the Local Government, may at any time,  withoutconditions,   or  upon	any  conditions	 which	the   personsentenced accepts, remit the537whole  or  any part of the punishment to which he  has	beensentenced "And the power of suspension of sentence pending appeals	 andrelease	 and  bail  was contained in s. 281,  a	 section  inChapter XX dealing with appeals whichwas in the following terms:-S.281.	 "In any case in which an appeal is allowed,  theAppellate  Court  may, pending the appeal,  order  that	 thesentence   be  suspended,  and,	 if  the  appellant  be	  inconfinement for an offence which is bailable, may order thathe be released on bail.The  period during which the sentence is suspended shall  beomitted in reckoning the completion of the punishment ".The Criminal Procedure Code was reenacted in 1882 being	 ActX  of  1882.  The power to suspend or  remit  sentences	 wascontained in a separate chapter, viz., Chapter XXIX headed "Suspensions, Remissions and Commutations of Sentences ". Therelevant provision was s. 401 :-S.401.	  "  When  any	person	has  been  sentenced   topunishment for an offence, the Governor General in  Council,or   the  Local	 Government,  may  at  any   time,   withoutconditions,   or  upon	any  conditions	 which	the   personsentenced accepts, suspend the execution of his sentence, orremit  the whole or any part of the punishment to  which  hehas been sentenced.Nothing	 herein contained shall be deemed to interfere	withthe  right  of	Her Majesty to	grant  pardons,'  reprieves,respites, or remissions of punishment".The  power  of	the appellate courts as	 to  suspension,  ofsentences  pending appeals was given in s. 426 which was  inChapter	 XXI  dealing with appeals and that section  was  asfollows :-	      " 426.  Pending any appeal by a convicted per-	      son,  the Appellate Court may, for reasons  to	      be  recorded by it in writing order  that	 the	      execution	 ,of the sentence or order  appealed	      against be suspended	      538and, if he is in confinement, that he be released on bail oron his own bond.The  power conferred by this section on an  Appellate  Courtmay  be exercised also by the High Court in the case of	 anyappeal by a convicted person to aCourt subordinate thereto.When the appellant is ultimately sentenced to  imprisonment,penal servitude or transportation, the time during which  heis  so released shall be excluded in computing the term	 forwhich he is so sentenced ".A new Criminal Procedure Code was enacted in 1898, a portionof which was subsequently amended.  The section dealing withpowers	of suspension or remission of sentence is 401  whichreads as under:-	      " 401. (1) When any person has been sentenced	      to  punishment  for an offence,  the  Governor	      General in Council or the local Government may	      at  any  time without conditions or  upon	 any	      conditions which the person sentenced accepts,	      suspend the execution of his sentence or remit	      the  whole  or any part of the  punishment  to	      which he has been sentenced............	      The  original sub-section (5) of this  section	      was :	      "(5)Nothing  herein contained shall be  deemed	      to interfere with the right of His Majesty  or	      of  the Central Government when such right  is	      delegated	 to it to grant pardons,  reprieves,	      respites or remissions of punishment ".And this sub-section was repealed by the Adaptation of	LawsOrder,	1950.  The words Governor General in Council or	 theLocal  Government  were suitably amended  with	the  variousconstitutional changes.The  corresponding section of appellate courts is  containedin a. 426 which is in Chapter XXXI dealing with appeals etc.The relevant portions of thissection when quoted are as under:-	      "	 426. (1) Pending any appeal by a  convicted	      person,  the Appellate Court may, for  reasons	      to  be recorded by it in writing,	 order	that	      the   execution  of  the	sentence  or   order	      appealed against be suspended and, also, if he	      is in confinement, that he be released on bail	      or on his own bond.	      539	      (2) (B) Where a High Court is satisfied that a	      convicted	 person	 has  been  granted  special	      leave  to appeal to the Supreme Court  against	      any sentence which the High Court has  imposed	      or  maintained, the High Court may, if  it  so	      thinks fit, order that pending the appeal	 the	      sentence	 or   order  appealed	against	  be	      suspended,  and  also, if such  person  is  in	      confinement,  that he be released on  bail  ".	      (This subsection was added later).It may be mentioned that in the Code of 1861 the power givento the Governor General was to remit punishment to which  anaccused person was sentenced and the power of the  appellatecourt  was  to suspend the sentence pending appeal  in	non-bailable offenses and to release on bail in bailable  cases.In  the Code of 1872 also the power of the Governor  Generaland of the local Government was one of remission of  punish-ment and the power of the appellate court was of  suspensionof  sentences pending the appeal.  In s. 401 of the  Act  of1882 the legislature chose to use the words " suspension  ofthe  execution of a sentence or remit the whole or any	partof  punishment ". The power was discretionary and  there  isnothing to indicate that this power was in any way  limited.But  the power given to the appellate court was	 differentlyworded	from what was in the previous Codes in that  now  itwas  necessary for the Courts to record reasons	 emphasisingthat  the two powers-the one exercised by the executive	 andthe  other  exercised  by the  judiciary-were  two  separatepowers,	 no  doubt,  operating	for  the  same	purpose	 butexercised  on  different  considerations  and  in  differentcircumstances.	Of course this does not mean that the courtsdid not exercise their power judicially previous to the	 Actof 1882.In  the Act of 1898 also, which is still the law,  the	samepower  of  suspension  of  the	execution  of  sentences  orremission  of punishments is mentioned in s. 401 and  in  a.426  giving the powers of the appellate courts the  words  "for reasons to be recorded in writing " are repeated showingthat the legislature wanted to make540it clear about the essential difference in the nature of theexercise of the power conferred on the executive and on	 thejudiciary.  The words " at any time " in s.  401  are	verywide and show the plenary nature of the power.In the Government of India Acts previous to the Act of	1935nothing	 was said about the power of the Crown or the  powerof  the Governor General as a delegate of the Crown, and  itcannot	be  said that the Indian legislature,  whatever	 itspowers,	 could affect the King's prerogative  and  thereforeany  provision	in the Criminal Procedure  Code	 was  whollyimpuissant  as	to the King's prerogative of  pardons.	 SeeHenrietta.  Muir Edwards v. Attorney General of Canada	(1).Provisions such as s. 401(5) are by way of abundant caution.Section	 295 of the Constitution Act of 1935 was  a  specialprovision as to the power of the executive to suspend, remitor  commute  a sentence of death.  Subsection  (1)  of	thatsection	 provided that the power of the Governor General  inhis discretion were the same as were vested in the  GovernorGeneral	 in Council immediately before the  commencement  ofPart III of that Act but save as that no authority in  Indiaoutside	 a  province  had any power  to	 suspend,  remit  orcommute the sentence of any person convicted in a  province.Sub-section (2) was a saving clause and it provided :-S.295. (2) " Nothing in this Act shall derogate from  theright  of  His Majesty, or of the Governor General,  if	 anysuch  right  is delegated to him by His	 Majesty,  to  grantpardons, reprieves, respites or remissions of punishment."Thus  the power of the King or of the Governor General as  adelegate  to  grant  suspension	 remission  or	commutationsremained unaffected by the introduction of a federal  systemwith  division	of  subjects  between  the  Centre  and	 theProvinces.   This section was in the part dealing  with	 theprovisions  as	to certain legal matters.   Thus  under	 theGovernment  of	India  Act  the	 Governor  General  in	 hisdiscretion had the power(1)[1930] A.C. 124, 136.541to remit etc. sentences of death and Governors of  provinceshad  the  power	 in  regard to all  sentences  passed  in  aprovince  but  the  power of the King and  of  the  GovernorGeneral as a delegate remained unaffected by the first	sub-section of the section.	 Thus upto the coming into force  ofthe  Constitution  the exercise of  the	 King's	 prerogativeremained unaffected, was plenary, unfettered and exercisableas hitherto.Historically  in England the King as the autocratic head  ofthe Government always had the power to pardon.This was a part " of that special preeminence which the Kinghath  over  and	 above	all other persons  and	out  of	 theordinary  course  of the common law, in right of  his  royaldignity ". Bl.	Comm. (i). 239.A  pardon  is  said by Lord Coke to be a "  work  of  mercy;whereby	 the  King,  either before  attainder,	sentence  orconviction   or	  after	 forgiveth   any   crime,   offence,punishment, execution, right, title, debt or duty,  temporalor ecclesiastical ". 3 Inst. 233.The common law is thus stated in Hale's Pleas of the  Crown,Vol. 2, Chapter 58, page 412:	      "Reprieves  or stays of judgment or  execution	      are of three kinds, viz. :	      1.    Ex mandate regis,	      2.    Ex	arbitrio  judicis.   Sometimes	 the	      judge	      reprieves before judgment, as where he is	 not	      satisfied with the verdict, or the evidence is	      uncertain,  or the indictment insufficient  or	      doubtful whether within clergy; and  sometimes	      after  judgment, if it be a small felony,	 the	      out  of  clergy, or in order to  a  pardon  or	      transportation.  Prompt.	Just 22b, and  these	      arbitrary	 reprieves may be granted  or  taken	      off  by  the justices of goal  delivery,	also	      their  sessions be adjourned or finished,	 and	      this by reason of common usage, 2 Dyer,  205a,	      73 Eng.  Reprint, 452.	      3.Ex necessitate legis.  Which is in  case	      of  pregnancy,  where a woman  is	 convict  of	      felony  or treason Blackstone  thus  expresses	      this prerogative:	      "	 The only other remaining ways	of  avoiding	      the  execution  of  the  judgment	 are  by   a	      reprieve	or a pardon; whereof the  former  is	      temporary only, the latter permanent.	      5421.A  reprieve  (from  reprendre, to  take  back)  is  thewithdrawing  of a sentence for an interval of time;  wherebythe execution is suspended.  This may be, first ex  arbitriojudicis;  either  before or after judgment ;  as  where	 thejudge is not satisfied with the verdict, or the evidence  issuspicious,  or	 the indictment is insufficient,  or  he  isdoubtful whether the offence be within clergy or sometime ifit be a small felony, or any favorable circumstances  appearin the criminal's character, in order to give room to  applyto  the Crown for either an absolute or conditional  pardon.These arbitrary reprieves may be granted or taken off by thejustices  of  gaol  delivery,  although	 their	session	  befinished,  and their commission expired; but this rather  bycommon usage, than of strict right.Reprieve may also be ex necessitate legis; as, where a womanis capitally convicted and pleads her pregnancy; though thisis  no cause to stay the judgment, yet it is to respite	 theexecution  till she be delivered.  This is a mercy  dictatedby the law of nature in favourem prolis ". Bk. 4, chapt. 31,pp. 394, 395.After  imposition of the sentence execution of the  sentencemay  be suspended for a time which is known as	respite	 andmay  be	 granted  by the king or by  the  Court.   Orfield'sCriminal Procedure from Arrest to Appeal, p. 529.As  the	 possessions of the kings of En	 land  expanded	 andseveral	 now  colonies came under their sway  the  power  ofpardon	which  the kings exercised came to be  exercised  bytheir  representatives in the colonies and in  America	fromthem it went to the State Governors and to the President forfederal	 offenses.   The same process was followed  in	thiscountry	 as  the various enactments and provisions  set	 outabove show.  It may be repetitive but it cannot be  suffici-ently emphasised that both the power of pardon and the powerof  reprieve which is a part of the all comprehensive  powerof  pardon  are executive acts and can be exercised  at	 anytime  and  in  any  circumstances  untrammeled	and  withoutcontrol and in absolute543freedom	 except that prescribed by the Constitution;  Craieson Statute Law, page 483.In  the Constitution the power of the President is the	sameas  it was in s. 295 of the Constitution Act of 1935 and  isunaffected  in	regard	to sentence of death  by  the  powerconferred  under  art.	161.   The  power  of  the  Governorcontained in art. 161 also is of the widest amplitude as thewords  of  the article which have been	quoted	above  wouldshow.	In  construing a constituent or an  organic  Statutesuch  as  the  Constitution  that  interpretation  must	  beattached which is most beneficial to the widest amplitude ofits  powers;  British  Coal Corporation v.  King  (1).	 TheJudicial  Committee  in Henrietta Muir Edwards	V.  AttorneyGeneral of Canada  (2) said:-	      " Their Lordships do not conceive it to be the	      duty  of this Board-it is certainly not  their	      desire  to out down the provisions of the	 Act	      by      a	     narrow	 and	   technical	      construction........................... ".In America the exercise of the power of pardon has been heldto  be governed by the same principles as are applicable  tothe exercise of the King's power of mercy under the  EnglishConstitution.  In United States V. Wilson (3) Marshall',  C.J., referring to the exercise of this power said :	      "	 As this power had been exercised from	time	      immemorial  by  the executive of	that  nation	      whose  language is our language, and to  whose	      judicial	institutions  ours  bears  a   close	      resemblance;   we	  adopt	  their	  principles	      respecting  the  operation and  effect  of  a'	      pardon,  and  look into their  books  for	 the	      rules prescribing the manner in which it is to	      be used by the person who would avail  himself	      of it".	      Wayne, J., in Ex parte Wells (4) said:	      " We still think so, and that the language  in	      the  Constitution,  conferring  the  power  to	      grant reprieves and pardons, must be construed	      with  reference to its meaning at the time  of	      its  adoption.  At the time of our  separation	      from Great Britain, that power had	      (1) [1935] A.C. 500.	      (3)8 L. Ed. 640, 643, 644.	      70	      (2)   [1930] A.C. 124, 136.	      (4)   15 L. Ed. 421, 424.	      544	       been  exercised	by the King,  as  the  Chief	      Executive.   Prior  to  the  Revolution,	 the	      Colonies,	 being in effect under the  laws  of	      England, were accustomed to the	exercise  of	      it in the various forms, as they may be  found	      in the English books.  They were of course  to	      be  applied  as occasions occurred,  and	they	      constituted  a  part of the  jurisprudence  of	      Anglo-America.   At that time of the  adoption	      of  the Constitution, American statesmen	were	      conversant with the prerogatives exercised  by	      the  Crown.   Hence when the  words  to  grant	      pardons  were used in the	 Constitution,	they	      convey to the mind the authority as  exercised	      by  the English Crown, or its  representatives	      in the Colonies.	At that time both Englishmen	      and Americans attached the same meaning to the	      words  "	pardon ". In  the  convention  which	      framed the Constitution, no effort was made to	      define or change its meaning, although it	 was	      limited in cases of impeachment.	       We  must then give the word the same  meaning	      as  prevailed here and in England at the	time	      it found a place in the Constitution.  This is	      in conformity with the principles laid down by	      this  court  in Cathcart v. Robinson,  5	Pet.	      264,  280;  and in Flavell's case, 8  Watts  &	      Serg. 197; Attorney General's brief"In Ex parte Grossman (1) Taft, C. J., said:-.lm15"..................................................................  The  language of the Constitution  cannot  beinterpreted safely except by reference to the common law andto British institutions as they were when the instrument wasframed	and  adopted.	The statesmen  and  lawyers  of	 theConvention,  who  submitted it to the  ratification  of	 theConvention of the thirteen states, were born and brought  upin  the atmosphere of the common law, and thought and  spokein  its vocabulary.  They were familiar with other forms  ofgovernment  recent  and	 ancient,  and	indicated  in  theirdiscussions earnest study and consideration of many of them,but when they came to put their conclusions into the form offundamental  law in a compact draft, they expressed them  interms of the common law,(1)  69 L. Ed 527, 530, 532, 535.545confident   that  they	could  be  shortly   and   earnestlyunderstood ".According  to the American as also Indian  Constitution	 thepower  as  given  to the President is not  to  reprieve	 andpardon	but that he shall have power to grant reprieves	 andpardons	 for  offenses against the United States  except  incases of impeachment.  Wayne, J., in Ex parte Well8 (1-)  atpage 425 has explained the difference between the meaning ofthese two expressions.	"The first convoys only the idea  ofan  absolute power as to the purpose or object for which  itis given.  The real language of the constitution is general,that is, common to the class of pardons known in the law  assuch  whatever they may be by their denomination.   We	haveshown  that  conditional pardon is one of  them.   A  singleremark from the power to grant reprieves will illustrate thepoint.	 That  is not only to be used to  delay	 a  judicialsentence  when the President shall think the merits  of	 thecase  or some cause connected with the offender may  requireit,   but   it	also  extends  to   cases   ex	 necessitatelegis  ...................... Though the reprieve in  eithercase  produces delay in the execution of a sentence  ",	 thereprieves  in  the two cases are different  in	their  legalcharacter  and different as to the causes which	 may  inducethe exercise of the power to reprieve.In  India also the makers of the Constitution were  familiarwith  English institutions and the powers of  English  Kingsand the exercise of their power both by the Governor Generaland the Governors of British India and of its provinces.  Itwill  be legitimate to draw on English law for	guidance  inthe  construction of the articles dealing with the power  ofthe  President	and  of the Governor in	 regard	 to  pardonsincluding the other forms of clemency comprised in. the	 twoarticles.   It	will not be inappropriate to  say  that	 theframers	 of the Indian Constitution were not  only  familiarand trained in British Jurisprudence but were familiar	withthe  American  Constitution  and they  were  drafting  theirConstitution in English language and therefore to draw	uponthe American parallel would be wholly legitimate.(1)  15 L. Ed. 421, 425.546The  history  of the prerogative of  pardons  and  reprievesshows  that  the  power of the executive in  the  matter  ofpardons	  and	reprieves  and	other	forms	of   pardonsirrespective of the name used is of the widest amplitude andis plenary in nature and can be exercised at any time  afterthe  commission of the offence.	 The power of the  executiveis an act of grace and clemency.   It  is  a  sovereign	  orgovernmental power which ina monarchy is inherent in  theKing and in a Republicin  the  State or	 the  people  andwhich  may, by the Constitution, be conferred on an  officeror  a department.  It is an executive power of the  Governorand  it is the same as was exercised by the colonial  Gover-nors in America 67 C. J. S. 565.Wayne, J., in the matter of Ex parte Wells (1) has describedit  as an act of mercy and an act of clemency applicable  topardons	 of  every kind and form.  Field, J.,  in  Ex  parteGarland	 (2) termed it the benign prerogative of mercy.	  Itis  the power for avoiding the execution of the judgment  byreprieve  or pardon whereof the former is temporary and	 thelatter permanent.  According to Willoughby's Constitution ofAmerica, Vol.  III p. 1492:-"  The power to pardon includes the right to remit  part  ofthe  penalty as well as the whole and in either case it	 maybe made conditional.  The power may be exercised at any timeafter  the  offence is committed, that	is,  either  before,during,	 or  after legal proceedings for punishment  ". Exparte Garland 4 Wall. 333.Reprieve  whereby the execution is suspended is	 merely	 thepostponement  of  the execution for a definite time  and  itdoes  not  and cannot defeat the ultimate execution  of	 thejudgment but merely delays it.	It is extended to a prisonerin  order  to  afford him an  opportunity  to  procure	someamelioration  of  the sentence which has been  imposed	uponhim.  But power to reprieve is an executive act and the solejudge  of the sufficiency of facts and of the  propriety  ofthe action is the Governor.  No other department in  Americahas  control  over his actions.	 The pardoning power  is  inderogation of the law and the power of pardoning(1) 15 L. Ed. 421, 424.(2) 18 L. Ed. 366, 370 & 371.547when conferred on the head of the executive is an  executivepower  and function.  The pardon may be conditional and	 thegrant of a conditional pardon is not illegal.It has been held that the power of pardon is not subject  tolegislative control ; Ex parte Garland (1) ; nor is it	opento  the legislature to change the effect of 'pardon;  UnitedStates	v.  Klein (2).	The executive may grant	 pardon	 forgood  reasons or bad or for any reasons at all; its  act  isfinal and irrevocable.	The Courts have no concern with	 thereasons which actuated the executive.  This power is  beyondthe  control  of the judiciary; 39 Am.	Jur.  545,  ss.	 43;Horwitz v. Connor (3).Thus in England the exercise of the power by the King is theexercise  of  the power of mercy.  The power is	 plenary  innature	and unfettered and as far as  constitutional  powersare  concerned	it can be exercised at any  time  after	 thecommission  of	the offence.  In America the  power  of	 theexecutive  under  the Federal or State Constitution  is	 thesame  in its nature as that exercised by the  representativeof the English Crown in America in colonial times. 67 C.  J.S. 565.	 It has been said that executive clemency exists  toafford relief from undue harshness or individual mistake  inthe  operation	or enforcement of the criminal law.   It  isessential in popular Governments as well as in monarchies tovest in some other party than courts the power to ameliorateor  avoid particular criminal judgments and the exercise  ofthis  power is the exercise by the highest executive of	 hisfull  discretion  and with the confidence that he  will	 notabuse it.In  Ex parte Garland (1), it was held that  the	 President'spardon was not subject to legislative control,said     Field,J., " the law thus conferred is unlimited .  ...............It  extends  to every offence known to the  law and  may  beexercised	at	 any	  time	     after	 itscommission..............................  The power  of	 thePresident  is not subject to legislative control.   Congresscan neither limit the effect not exclude from its effect anyclass of offenders.  The benign prerogative(1) 18 L. Ed. 366, 370 & 371.(2) 20 L. Ed. 519.(3)  6 C. L. R. 1497.548of  mercy  resposed  in	 him  cannot  be  fettered  by	 anylegislative  restriction.......... In Ex parts Grossman	 (1)it  was held that there was no difference between the  powerof  the President and that of the king in regard  to  pardonand at page 535 it was observed by Taft, C. J.	      "Executive  clemency exists to  afford  relief	      from undue harshness or evident mistake in the	      operation or enforcement of the criminal	law.	      The administration of justice by the courts is	      not  necessarily	always	wise  or   certainly	      considerate   of	 circumstances	 which	 may	      properly mitigate guilt.	To afford a  remedy,	      it  has  always  been  thought  essential	  in	      popular governments, as well as in  monarchies	      to vest in some other authority than the court	      power   to  ameliorate  or  avoid	  particular	      criminal judgment.  It is a check intrusted to	      the Executive for special cases ".That case also laid down that the exercise of-the  executivepower  to the extent of destroying the deterrent  effect  ofjudicial punishment would be to pervert it but whosoever  isto  make  the  power useful must  have	full  discretion  toexercise  it  and that discretion is vested in	the  highestofficer in the nation.In Biddle v. Vuco Perovich (2), Holmes., J., in dealing withpardons said:-	      ,,  Pardon is not a private act of grace	from	      an individual happening to possess power.	  It	      is a part of the constitutional scheme.	When	      granted	it  is	the  determination  of	 the	      ultimate	authority  that the  public  welfare	      will be better served by inflicting less	than	      what the judgment fixed"and  in	 Sorrell8 V.  United State8 (3) the  observation  ofHolmes,	 J., were followed and it was held the	clemency  isthe function of the executive and it is the function of	 thecourts	to  construe  the Statute and not to  defeat  it  asconstrued.A review of these American cases shows that the courts therehave  accepted	that the English principles  respecting	 theextent, operation and effect of pardons and reprieves  applyin America; that the power which(1) 65 L. Ed. 527, 530, 532, 535.(2) 71 L. Ed. 1161, 1163.(3) 77 L. Ed. 413 at P. 421.549was exercised by the king and by delegation by the  colonialGovernors  is now exercised by the highest executive in	 theland  and  that	 a pardon which includes a  reprieve  and  arespite may variously be described as an act of clemency, anact of mercy, an act of grace, an exercise of the  sovereignor  governmental power or the determination of the  ultimateauthority.   Therefore	the  principles	 which	govern	 theexercise  of this executive power are quite  different	fromthose which govern the exercise of the power of the  courts.It  may	 also be pointed out that the American	courts	havefrowned	 upon  any  interference by the	 courts	 or  by	 thelegislature with the extent and effect of the prerogative ofthe  people vested in the President in the exercise  of	 hispower  of benign mercy.	 It was so held in Ex parte  Garland(1) and United states v. Klein (2).  In the former case	 thePresident bad given a pardon to rebels who had taken part inthe  civil war against the forces of the federation and	 thelegislature  had reversed that pardon and it was  held	thatpardon	was  not subject to legislative control and  in	 thelatter	which  was  a conditional pardon the  power  of	 thelegislature was held not to be exercisable.The  power  of the executive can be exercised at  any  time.This is so in England, in America and in India. The King  ",said Lord Coke, " can forgive any crime, offence, punishmentor execution either before attainder, sentence or convictionor after " ; 3 Insti. 233 ; Hawkins' Pleas of the Crown	 bk.2,  Chapt.37. In the Indian Statute the words " any  time  "are expressly used in s. 401 of the Criminal Procedure	Codeand in England it is an accepted practice that the Crown canpardon	before or after conviction or before trial.  As	 faras  the power of pardon before trial is concerned it can  beexercised  by entering nolle prosequi which is also the	 lawin  India.  Under a. 333 of the Code of	 Criminal  Procedurethe  Advocate  General can, in cases tried before  the	HighCourt, enter a nolle prosequi and this power is absolute andnot subject to the control of the court.  This section makesit clear that before a verdict is given the Advocate-Generalmay inform the18 L. Ed. 366, 370 & 371	(2) 20 L. Ed. 519.550court  on behalf of the Government that he will not  furtherprosecute  the	defendant upon the charge and  he  shall  bedischarged  but this discharge does not amount to  acquittalunless the Judge otherwise directs.  We are informed that inthe city of Bombay the power of the Advocate-General extendsto oases tried by the court of Session.	 There is no  chanceof private complainant being able to restart the proceedingsbecause	 the  Crown  can  always  take	over  any   criminalproceeding  and then enter a nolle prosequi.  Similarly	 thepower  is  given  in  regard to	 other	courts	of  originaljurisdiction to the Public Prosecutor under s. 494, CriminalProcedure  Code, but that power is not as absolute as it  isin  the case of s. 333 because it is subject to the  consentof the Court.In the absence of constitutional restrictions the power-  ofpardon and reprieve whether conditional or unconditional maybe exercised at any time after the commission of the offenceeither	before legal proceedings are taken or  during  theirpendency  or after an appeal is filed and while the case  ispending in the appellate court.	 It was so held in Ex  parteGrossman  (1) ; Ex parte Garland (2) and so stated in 67  C.J.  S. 572.  In the absence of a limitation imposed  by	 lawthere  is no limit to the period of reprieve and  successivereprieves  where a period is prescribed are not illegal:  67C.   J. S. p. 582.A  case	 where	the  power of  reprieve	 was  exercised	 andoperated  during the pendency of the  appellate	 proceedingsis,  Rogers  v. Peck (3).  There one Mary Mabel	 Rogers	 wasgranted	 reprieve  to permit her to appeal  to	the  SupremeCourt  of the United States from the order of  the  DistrictCourt denying habeas corpus.  She was convicted of murder atthe  December,	term  1903  and	 was  confined	in  solitaryconfinement until February 3. 1905. on which day she was  tosuffer	the  penalty  of death, On  February  1,  1905,	 theGovernor  reprieved the execution of sentence until June  2,1905.  On April 29, 1905, she presented a petition for a newtrial  to the Supreme Court of the State.  The petition	 wasadmitted on May 5,1905, and fixed for hearing on(1) 69 L. Ed. 527, 530, 532. 535.(2) 18 L. Ed. 366,370 &,371.(3) 50 L. Ed. 256.551May  10, 1905, but was dismissed on May 30, 1905, and a	 newtrial  was refused.  On June 1, 1905, the execution  of	 thesentence  was further reprieved by the Governor	 until	June23,  1905.  Thereupon she filed her petition in the  FederalCourt  for a writ of habeas corpus which was dismissed.	  Onthat  date the Governor further reprieved the  execution  ofthe  sentence  until December 8, 1905.	The  appeal  to	 theSupreme Court of the United States was admitted on June	 22,1905,  but the appeal was finally dismissed on November	 27,1905.  One of the grounds of appeal in the Supreme Court wasthat the Governor, by giving the reprieve, issued his  orderrequiring  the execution while proceedings were	 pending  inthe  court  of the United States for her  relief  on  habeascorpus and therefore the order was null and void and anotherground was the failure of the Supreme Court of the State  togrant  a  stay and fixing a date for  execution.   Both	 thegrounds were overruled and it was held that the reprieve wasto  allow  the cause to be heard on appeal  in	the  SupremeCourt and that the order of the Governor was not against dueprocess	 clause and when the Governor had given	 a  reprievebeyond	the hearing in the State Supreme Court there was  nooccasion  for  the court to' act in the matter.	  This	caseshows that the power of reprieve is exercisable even  duringthe  period  that proceedings are pending in  an.  appellatecourt.The argument in opposition to the submissions of the learnedAdvocate-General   was	that  although	the  power  of	 theexecutive  to  grant  pardon or reprieve  or  suspension  ofsentence was absolute and could be exercised at any time yetthere was a statutory as well as a constitutional limitationon  the exercise of this power which excluded the  power  ofthe  executive for the period when the case of	a  defendanthad  been  brought before the Supreme Court  or	 before	 anyother  appellate court as the case may be.  For	 the  latterreference was made to a. 426 of the Criminal Procedure	Codewhich  gives  the  power to appellate courts  to  suspend  asentence  pending  an appeal for reasons to be	recorded  inwriting and as to the former arts.71552142 and 145 of the Constitution were referred to.    Article142  confers on the Supreme Court the power to	do  completejustice	 in any cause or matter pending before it  and	art.145 gives to; the Supreme Court power to make rules with theapproval of the President but subject. to any law ;Which theParliament  may	 pass.	 Under art. 145 which  is  the	rulemaking	power  of this court, the court has made  two  ruleswhich  are relevant for the purpose of this appeal and	theyare  Order 21, Rule 5 and Order 21, Rule 28 and when  quotedthey are as follows:-O.21, R. 5 " When the petitioner has been sentenced to	aterm  of imprisonment, the petition shall state whether	 thepetitioner  has	 surrendered.  Unless  the  Court  otherwiseorders,	 the petition shall not be posted for hearing  untilthe petitioner has surrendered to his sentence ".O.21,  R. 28 " Pending the disposal of any  appeal  underthese  Rules the Court may order that the execution  of	 thesentence  or order appealed against be stayed on such  termsas the Court may think fit ".Rule 5 is a salutory rule in that the court will not hear  acase  in which the party is in contempt of the order of	 thesubordinate court but that rule is in express words  subjectto  the discretion given to this court under art. 136  whichstates:-	      " Notwithstanding anything in this Chapter the	      Supreme  Court may, in its  discretion,  grant	      special leave to appeal...........Rules  made  under  art.  145  are  subordinate	 legislationbecause	 they are subject to any law made by Parliament	 andcan  be	 changed  by  the court with  the  approval  of	 thePresident.  The change of an article, on the other hand,  isto be in accordance with the provisions of the	Constitutionand  therefore merely because this Court has also the  powerunder the rules to grant suspension of a sentence and it hasmade rules that it will not entertain any petition for leaveto  appeal unless the petitioner surrenders himself  to	 thesentence  cannot  override  the provisions  of	art.  161  ;because if there is irresolvable conflict between553the  article  and the rules then the rules  must  give	way,being subordinate legislation.It was argued that the power of the Court under articles 142&  145	and  of the Governor under  art.  161  are  mutuallyinconsistent  and therefore the power of the  Governor	doesnot extend to the period the appeal is pending in this Courtbecause	 law does not contemplate that two  authorities,  i.e., executive and judicial should operate in the same  fieldand  that  it  is necessary that this  Court  should  put  aharmonious  construction  on  them.   Article  142  of	 theConstitution, it was con. tended, is couched in language  ofthe  widest amplitude and comprises powers of suspension  ofsentences etc.	The argument that the power of the executiveto suspend the sentence under art. 161 and of the  judiciaryto  suspend the sentence under art. 142 and art. 145 are  inconflict ignores the nature of the two powers.	No doubt theeffect	of both is the same but they do not operate  in	 thesame  field  ; the two authorities do not act  on  the	sameprinciples  and in exercising their powers they do not	takethe   same  matters  into  consideration.    The   executiveexercises  the	power in derogation of the  judicial  power.The executive power to pardon including reprieve, suspend orrespite a sentence is the exercise of a sovereign or govern-mental power which is inherent in the State power.  It is  apower of clemency, of mercy, of grace " benign prerogative "of  the	 highest officer of the State and may  be  based  onpolicy.	  It  is to be exercised on the ground	that  publicgood will be as well or better promoted by suspension as  bythe execution but it is not judicial process.  The  exerciseof  this  power	 lies  in  the	absolute  and	uncontrolleddiscretion of the authority in whom it is vested.The  power  of	the courts to suspend  sentences  is  to  beexercised on judicial considerations.  At Common Law, it washeld in Ex parte U. S. (1) courts possessed and asserted theright to exert judicial discretion in the enforcement of thelaw to temporarily suspend either the imposition of sentenceor  its execution when imposed to the end that pardon  mightbe procured or(1)  61 L. Ed. 129 at P. 141.554that  the  violation  of  law in  other	 respects  might  beprevented.   It was also held that a Federal District  Courtexceeds	 its power by ordering that execution of a  sentenceimposed	  by  it  upon	a.  plea  of  guilty  be   suspendedindefinitely during good behavior upon considerations whollyextraneous  to the legality of the conviction : Ex parte  U.S. (1).Marshall,  C.  J., in U. S. v. George Wilson (2)  stated  asfollows:-	      ".....................  It  is  a	 constituent	      part  of	the judicial system that  the  judge	      sees  only  with	judicial  eyes,	 and   knows	      nothing  respecting  any particular  case,  of	      which he is not informed judicially ".In Ex parte Grossman (3), it was said that administration ofjustice	 by the courts is not necessarily or always wise  orconsiderate of circumstances which may mitigate a guilt	 andin  order  to remedy this it was thought necessary  to	vestthis in some other authority than the court to ameliorate oravoid  particular criminal judgments.  The exercise of	thispower  has the effect of destroying the deterrent effect  ofjudicial punishment.  The extent of the two powers, judicialand  executive and the difference between the two  has	beenpointed	 out  in United State8 v. Benz (4) in which  it	 washeld  that  no	usurpation of the  pardoning  power  of	 theexecutive  is involved in the action of a court in  reducingpunishment  after  the	prisoner had served a  part  of	 theimprisonment   originally  im.	posed.	 At  page  358	 thedistinction was stated as follows:-	      "	 The judicial power and the executive  power	      over  sentenced are  readily  distinguishable.	      To render judgment is a judicial function.  To	      carry the judgment into effect is an executive	      function.	  To out short a sentence by an	 act	      of clemency is an exercise of executive  power	      which   abridges	 the  enforcement   of	 the	      judgment, but does not alter it qua  judgment.	      To  reduce a sentence by amendment alters	 the	      terms of the judgment itself and is a judicial	      act as much as the imposition of the  sentence	      in the first instance"	       (1) 61 L. Ed. 129 at p. 141.	       (2) 8 L. Ed. 640, 643. 644.	       (3) 69 L. Ed. 527, 530. 532.535.	       (4) 75 L. Ed. 354.555According  to  Willis  " Courts may exercise  the  power  ofsuspending sentence although this, like the pardoning power,partakes of the nature of an executive function; which showsthat  giving of suspensions of sentences is an	exercise  ofexecutive   power;  Willis'  Constitutional  Law,  p.	151.Clemency  is  the function of the executive and	 it  is	 thefunction  of  the courts to construe a Statute	and  not  todefeat it as construed.The  judicial  power therefore is  exercisable	on  judicialconsiderations.	 The courts would approach every question inregard to suspension with a, judicial eye.  They are  unableto look to anything which is outside the record or the factswhich  are  proved before them.	 It is not their  sphere  totake  into  consideration  anything which  is  not  strictlyjudicial.   A court knows nothing of a case except  what  isbrought	 before it in accordance with the laws of  procedureand evidence and consequently this is a power distinct	fromthe  power  of	the executive which  may  act,	taking	intoconsideration extra-judicial matters even on the ground thatsuspension, remission and commutation may be more for publicgood  and  welfare  than no  interference.   These  are	 allmatters of public policy and matters which are not  judicialand  are within the power of the executive and therefore  itcannot	be  said  that the two powers operate  in  the	samefield.	 No  doubt they may have the same  effect  but	theyoperate	 in distinct fields, on different principles  takingwholly irreconcilable factors into consideration.Taking	the  case  of pardon it is important  to  note	thatpardon	is  granted  for reasons other	than  innocence.   Apardon,	  it  has  been	 said,	'affirms  the  verdict	 anddisaffirms  it	not ". (28 Harvard Law Review at p.  647  bySamuel Williston).Commutation of sentences is a power which is exercisable  bythe executive to ameliorate the rigors of the punishment  bycourts	when  death  sentences	are  imposed.	It  was	 notcontended that the power of commutation is not available  tothe  executive	after the sentence is passed and  before  anappeal	is filed or pending the appellate  proceedings.	  Ithas  the same effect as reduction of a sentence by  a  courtfrom556death to one of imprisonment for life or transportation	 forlife  as  it used to be.  In England and in  America  it  isexercised on the condition of acceptance by the convict	 butno such limitation is imposed on the power of the  executiveunder the Indian law.  But whereas the court will take	intoconsideration only the circumstances which would justify theexercise  of judicial power it is open to the  executive  toact  on ,other grounds and the act of the executive  is	 notsubject	 to  review by the courts, the executive  being	 thesole  judge of sufficiency of facts and of the propriety  ofthe  action  and  no  other  branch  has  any  control	overexecutive action.As to suspension of sentence again in s. 426 of the CriminalProcedure  Code	 it is expressly stated	 that  an  appellatecourt can suspend the sentence for reasons to be stated ; nosuch limitation is imposed on the executive under s. 401  ofthe Code.  The language of the two sections themselves showsthe  field  in	which the two powers  operate  although	 theeffect	may be the same. It is relevant to consider in	thisconnection the grounds	on which a court acts in  regard  tooffenses  punishable  with  death or imprisonment  for	life(s.497	of  Cr.	  P. C.) but  no  such	restrictions  impedeexecutive  action.   Similarly when the Supreme	 Court	actsunder art. 142 it acts judicially and takes only those factsinto  consideration  which are sufficient  in  the  judicialSense to justify the exercise of its power ; so would be thecase  when the power is exercised under the rules framed  bythe court.  Thus it appears that the power of the  executiveand  of the judiciary to exercise the power under arts.	 161and 142 or under ss. 401 and 426 are different in nature andare exercised on different considerations and even may	havedifferent effect.Executive  power exercised in regard to sentences passed  bycourts is in its very nature the exercise of  constitutionalauthority  which negatives the orders of the  court.   Everytime  it  is exercised it conflicts with some order  of	 thecourt  whether	it  is a case of pardon	 or  commutation  ofsentence  or a reprieve or suspension or respite.  It is  aninterference with some action557of the court which makes the power of the executive to	thatextent	overriding.  It is for this reason that it has	beensaid in American judgments, e. g., Ex parte Grossman(1) thatalthough   the	Constitution  has  made	 the  judiciary	  asindependent  of other branches as is practicable it  is,  asoften remarked, the weakest of the three.  It must look	 fora  continuity  of  necessary  cooperation  in  the  possiblereluctance  of either of the other branches to the force  ofpublic	opinion.   The action of the  executive	 interferingwith  sentences	 passed by courts is a matter which  is	 notwithin the amplitude of the judicial power of the courts andwhenever any action is taken by the executive, unless it  isillegal,  it is not justiciable nor subject  to	 legislativecontrol.The  power that this court exercises under Order 21, Rule  5must  also depend upon the decision of the question  whetherart. 145 can be used in derogation of the power given to theGovernors  under art. 161.  As has been stated above,  beingsubordinate  legislation, it must in reality be	 subordinateto the provisions of the Constitution which is obvious	fromthe   fact  that  any  revision	 of  the  articles  of	 theConstitution  will  require the procedure laid down  in	 theConstitution for its amendment whereas the rules made  underthe Constitution can be changed by the court itself with theapproval of the President or by a Parliamentary enactment.The  language  of art. 161 is of the  widest  amplitude	 andapplies to the various forms of clemency mentioned  therein.It is not denied that the power of pardon is not affected byart. 142 and this power includes the power to reprieve.	  Itwould be an undue construction of the exercise of the  powerof  pardon to take out from its purview that portion  of  itwhich is termed reprieve or stay of execution or  suspensionand  respite  of sentence which differs from  suspension  ofsentences  only in terminology.	 The construction  suggestedwould  be  illogical because the plenitude of  the  languagewould  remain  unaffected before the petition for  leave  toappeal is filed and after the decision(1)  69 L. Ed- 527, 530, 532 535.558of  the appeal but the power would remain  suspended  duringthe pendency of the appeal proceedings even though the powerof  pardon  and	 of  commutation  remains  intact  and	 thesuggested  restriction is not borne out by the	language  ofthe article.  And this construction is opposed to  decisionsof courts of America where the power is similar as in India.Even  on the analogy of the Privy Council case Balmukand  v.King  Emperor  (1) where reprieve was  granted	pending	 thehearing of the special leave petition, i. e., upto the	datethe  petition was taken up, heard and decided and  thereforeuptil  that date the reprieve was necessary and proper.	  InRogers v. Peck(2) reprieve was granted for a period of	timeextending beyond the hearing of the appeal proceedings.If the argument as to want of the power of suspension duringthe period of pendency of an appeal is sustainable then	 thepower to commute must equally be so affected because what iscommutation  when  exercised  by  the  executive  is  calledreduction  of sentence when ordered by the court.   The	 twoare neither different in nature nor in effect.Reference was made to a. 295 of the Government of India	 Actof  1935  whereby  the prerogative of the King	and  of	 theGovernor  General  as his delegate was	specifically  saved.Reference was also made to 8. 209(3) of that Act which	gaveto  the	 Federal Court the power of stay in  any  case;	 theargument  being that the prerogative power of the  King	 andhis delegate the Governor General would not be unlimited butfor  its  being	 expressly  saved by  s.  295(2).   A  closeexamination of these provisions and the application of rulesof  interpretation  do	not support the	 soundness  of	thisargument.Section	 209(3) is in Part IX The Judicature and  Chapter  1the  Federal Court.  It gave power to the Federal  Court  tostay executions in any case under appeal as follows:S.209(3)  " The Federal Court may, subject to such  termsor conditions as it may think fit to impose, order a stay ofexecution in any case under appeal to(1) 42 I.A. 133.(2) 50 L. Ed. 256.559the Court, pending the hearing of the appeal, and  executionshall be stayed accordinglySection	 295 is in Part XII Misellaneous and under  sub-headProvisions as to legal matters.	 Section 295 provided:-S.295(1)  " Where any person has been sentenced to  deathin a Province, the Governor General in his discretion  shallhave all such powers of suspension, remission or commutationof  sentence  as  were vested in  the  Governor	 General  inCouncil	 immediately before the commencement of Part III  ofthis  Act,  but	 save ,as aforesaid no	authority  in  Indiaoutside	 a, Province shall have any power to suspend,  remitor  commute  the  sentence of any person  convicted  in	 theProvince:Provided that nothing in this sub-section affects any  powerof any officer of His Majesty's forces to suspend, remit  orcommute a sentence passed by a court martial.(2)Nothing  in this Act shall derogate from the	 right	ofHis  Majesty, or of the Governor General, if any such  rightis  delegated  to  him by His  Majesty,	 to  grant  pardons,reprieves, respites or remissions of punishmentStay of execution is a term appropriate to civil proceedingsas  0. 21, rr. 26 & 29 and 0. 41, r. 5 of the Code of  CivilProcedure  would  show but even if it  applied	to  criminalproceedings   it   would   be  of   little   assistance	  inunderstanding  the meaning of art. 142(1), in any  differentmanner	from  what has been said above.	 But  s.  295(2)  ispressed into service to show that wherever the Power of	 theexecutive is intended to be overriding.	 It is	specificallyso  stated.   So  construed the	 power	exercisable  by	 theGovernor General in his discretion and of the Governor	willbe  of lesser amplitude and subject to the limitation of  s.209(3),	 whereas  the  power of the  King  or  the  GovernorGeneral	 acting	 under	s. 295(2) will not be  so  which  isseemingly incongruous.	Besides the words " nothing in	thisAct  shall  derogate  "	 in s.	295(2)	only  emphasise	 theconstitutional position of the King's prerogative and of hisdelegate and was more in the nature of72560ex abundanti cautela' because under constitutional  practice"   Roy	 n'est	lie  par  ascun	 statute,  si  il  ne	soitexpressement nosme " is a principle which has been  acceptedin this court qua the Union or the States.  " Where the Kinghas  any  prerogative, estate, right, title or	interest  heshall  not be barred of them by the general words of an	 Actif be not named therein "; Broom's Maxims, p. 39 (1939 ed.);Province  of Bombay v. Municipal Corporation of the City  ofBombay(1), where it was held that Crown is not bound  unlessexpressly named or is bound by " necessary implicationIf  the	 argument of limitation of the	King's	prerogativebecause of these saving words is sound then it means in	 theConstitution Act the British Parliament did contemplate	 andprovide	 that  the  power of the King  or  of  the  GovernorGeneral	 as  his delegate as to suspensions,  remissions  orcommutation would be overriding and exercisable in spite  ofthe pendency of an appeal in the Federal Court.There are seven reasons for denying the argument of conflictbetween arts. 142 and 161 :-(1)As  has been discussed above, the two articles  operatein  two distinct fields where different	 considerations	 fortaking	action	apply.	 That is how the  two  articles	 arereconcilable and should be reconciled.	This  interpretationaccords	 with the rule of statutory co-existence  stated  intext  books  on	 Interpretation of  Statutes,  which  is  asfollows:-	      "	 It is sometimes found that the conflict  of	      two  Statutes  is	 apparent  only,  as   their	      objects are different and the language of each	      is  restricted to its own object	or  subject.	      When  their language is so confined, they	 run	      in parallel lines without meeting ".  (Maxwell	      on  Interpretation of Statutes (1953 Ed.),  p.	      170).	      (2)The  proper  rule  of	construction   of	      Statutes	 was  laid  down  in  Warburton	  v.	      Loveland(2):	      No rule of construction can require that	when	      the   words  of  a  Statute  convey  a   clear	      meaning..........	 it  shall be  necessary  to	      introduce another part of the	      (1) 73 I.A. 271.	      (2) 5 E.R. 499, 410.	      561	      Statute,	which speaks with less	perspicuity,	      and of which the words may be capable of	such	      construction as by possibility to diminish the	      efficacy of the other provisions of the Act"This  rule was accepted in regard to the  interpretation  ofss.  89,  92 and 93 of the Australian  Constitution  in	 theState of Tasmania v. Commonwealth of Australia (1):	      "Applying those expressions to these  sections	      I should say they amount to this; Seeing	that	      sec. 89 hair an absolutely clear meaning,	 the	      rules  of	 construction do not require  us  to	      introduce	 another part of the  Statute  which	      speaks  with  less perspicuity, and  to  apply	      that  part  to the construction  of  sec.	 89.	      That would have the effect of diminishing	 the	      clearness	 of sec. 89 and appears to me to  be	      an  absolute  inversion of the rule  which  is	      applicable in such a case ".In  the	 instant case the words of art. 161  are  clear	 andunambiguous.  It is an unsound construction to put a  fetteron  the	 plenitude of the powers given in  that	 article  byreading an earlier article which deals with the powers of  adifferent department of Government and uses language " whichspeaks with less perspicuity(3)Moreover it is a relevant consideration in the matterof interpretation that the two articles are in two differentparts.	 There is ample authority for the view that  one  isentitled  to  have  regard to the indicia  afforded  by	 thearrangement  of sections and from other indications;  Dormerv.  New Castle-upon-Tyne Corporation (2) per Slesser, L.  J.The  arrangement of sections into parts and  their  headingsare  substantive parts of the Act and as is pointed  out  byCraies	on  Statute  Law  (5th Ed.),  p.  165,	"  they	 aregradually  winning recognition as a kind of preamble to	 theenactments  which they precede limiting or explaining  theiroperation  ".  They  may be looked to as  a  better  key  toconstruction than a mere preamble.  Ibid p. 195.(1) 1 C.L.R. 329, 357.(2) [1940] 2 K.B. 204, 217 (C.A.).562In Inglis v. Bobertson(1) which turned on the meaning of theFactors Act, Lord Herschell said:-	      "These  headings	are not in my  opinion	mere	      marginal	notes but the sections in the  group	      to   which  they	belong	must  be   read	  in	      connection  with them and interpreted  in	 the	      light of them".Viscount   Simon,  L.  C.,  said  in  Nokes   v.   DoncasterAmalgamated Collieries Ltd. (2):-	      "Moreover,  sec. 154 contemplates-or,  at	 any	      rate,  provides  for-the	dissolution  of	 the	      transferor  company when the transfer  of	 its	      undertaking  has been made, and there  appears	      to  be  no means of calling back to  life	 the	      company  so dissolved for see. 294  occurs  in	      Part  V  of the Companies Act,  1929,  dealing	      with winding up, whereas sec. 154 is found  in	      Part IV"These cases place accent on the principle that the  articles142(1)	 and  161  deal	 with  different  subjects   showingoperation  in  separate	 fields and  were  not	intended  tooverlap so as to be restrictive of each other.(4)The	language of art. 161 is general, i. e., the  powerextends	 equally to all class. of pardons known to  the	 lawwhatever  the  nomenclature used ; Ex parte  Wells  (3)	 andtherefore if the power to pardon is absolute and exercisableat any time on principles which are quite different from theprinciples  on	which  judicial	 power	is  exercised	thenrestrictions  on  the  exercise	 of  the  lesser  power	  ofsuspension for a period, during which the appeal is  pendingin  this court would be an unjustifiable limitation  on	 thepower  of  the	executive.   It	 could	not  have  been	 theintention  of  the framers that the amplitude  of  executivepower  should be restricted as to become suspended  for	 theperiod of pendency of an appeal in the Supreme Court.(5)If this interpretation is-adopted it would lead to thisrather incongruous result that if the appeal is pending in aCourt  of  Session  or	the High  Court	 the  power  of	 theexecutive will be abundant, overriding(1) [1898] A.C. 616, 630.(2) [1940] A.C. 1114(3) 15 L. Ed, 421, 424.563and  operative	during the pendency of appeals but  will  berestrictive when appeal is brought in the Supreme Court.(6)Article  161	 is  a later provision	and  when  it  wasadopted the Constitution makers had already adopted art.  72and arts. 142(1) and 145.  It does not seem reasonable	thatby  so juxtaposing the articles it was the intention of	 theframers to constrict the power of the executive.  The  rulesof interpretation on this point have thus been stated:(a)It  is presumed that the legislature does  not  deprivethe State of its prerogative powers unless it expresses	 itsintention  to  do  so  in  express  terms  or  by  necessaryimplication.  Province of Bombay v. Municipal Corporation ofthe City of Bombay (1); Director of Rationing & Distributionv. Corporation of Calcutta (2).(b)It  seems  impossible  to suppose that  so  material	 achange	in  the constitutional powers of  the  Governor	 wasintended to be effected by a side wind.(e)The	law  will  not allow alteration of  a  Statute	byconstruction  when  the	 words	may  be	 capable  of  properoperation without it; Kutner v. Philips (3).(d)It  cannot be assumed that the Constitution	has  givenwith one hand what it has taken away with another; Dormer v.New Castle-upon-Tyne Corporation (4).(e)If  two sections are repugnant, the known rule is  thatthe last must prevail: Wood v. Riley (5), per Keating, J.(7)The power given to the Governor in regard to pardons isa  specific power specially conferred as was vested in-	 thecolonial  and British Governors in Indian  provinces  duringBritish	 days.	 The  power given to the  court	 under	Art.142(1)	is  a general power exercisable for  doing  completejustice	 in any cause or matter.  If they, i.e.,  arts.	 161and 142(1) deal with(1) 73 I.A. 271(2) Criminal Appeal No. 158 Of 1956.(3) [1891] 2 Q.B. 267, 272.(4) [1940] 2 K.	 B. 204. 217 (C.A.).(5) [1867-8] 3 C.P. 26.564the  same subject matter as is contended then art. 161	mustprevail	 over  art.  142(1)  which is  in  accord  with	 theconstitutional position as above discussed.In  the	 circumstances	of  this  case	1  would  grant	 thepetitioner  exemption  prayed for and proceed  to  hear	 thespecial leave petition on merits.BY COURT: In view of the majority Judgment, the petition  isdismissed.Petition dismissed.