PETITIONER:GUMMALAPURA TAGGINA MATADAKOTTURUSWAMI	Vs.RESPONDENT:SETRA VEERAVVA AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:19/12/1958BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERDAS, S.K.KAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1959 AIR  577		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 968 CITATOR INFO : R	    1962 SC1493	 (15) R	    1966 SC 216	 (2) E	    1967 SC1786	 (9,16) R	    1970 SC1963	 (6) R	    1977 SC 164	 (8) RF	    1977 SC1944	 (3) E&D	    1987 SC1493	 (7) RF	    1991 SC 663	 (3,15) D	    1991 SC1581	 (8,11)ACT:Hindu Law-Widow in Possession of husband's  property-Adoptedson  getting into possession-Adoption invalid-Whether  widowis  in	constructive  Possession-"Property  Possessed  by  afemale Hindu ", Meaning of-Hindu Succession Act, 1956 (30 of1956), s. 14.HEADNOTE:Sub-section (1) of s. 14 Of the Hindu Succession Act,  1956,provided:  "  Any  property possessed  by  a  female  Hindu,whether	 acquired before or after the commencement  of	thisAct, shall be held by her as full owner thereof and not as alimited owner."A  suit	 instituted by the nearest reversioner of  K  for  adeclaration that the adoption made by K's widow was invalid,was  dismissed -and during the pendency of the appeal  filedagainst the decree dismissing the suit, the Hindu SuccessionAct,  1956, came into force.  At the hearing of	 the  appealthe respondent raised the preliminary objection that even ifthe  adoption were held to be invalid, the appellant's	suitmust  fail  in view of the provisions of S. 14	Of  the	 Actunder  which K's widow, who was a party to the suit and	 theappeal,	 would	be  entitled  to a  full  ownership  of	 herhusband's  properties, while it was urged for the  appellantthat s. 14 Of the Act did not apply to the facts of the casebecause	 the properties were not in, the possession  of	 K'swidow,	but were only with the adopted son at the  time	 theAct came into force.Held,  that  the  word "possession" in s. 14  Of  the  HinduSuccession Act, 1956, is used in the widest connotation	 andit  may	 be  either actual or constructive or  in  any	formrecognised by law.969Gostha	Behari	v. Haridas Samanta, A.I.R.  1957  Cal.	557,approved.In  the present case, if the adoption was invalid K's  widowwould  be  the full owner of K's estate, and even if  it  beassumed that the adopted son was in actual possession of theestate,	 his possession was merely permissive and K's  widowmust  be regarded as being in constructive possession of  itthrough	 him.  Accordingly, s. 14 was applicable and as	 K'swidow  became  a  full owner of her  husband's	estate,	 theappellant's suit was not maintainable.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 120 of 1955.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated March 25, 1949, ofthe Madras High Court in Appeal No. 55 of 1946, arising	 outof  the judgment and decree dated November 26, 1945, of	 theCourt of the District Judge of Bellary in Original Suit	 No.39 of 1943.A.   V. Viswanatha Sastri and K. R. Chaudhury for B.   K. B.Naidu, for the appellant.K.N.  Rajagopala  Sastri  and  M.  S.  K.  Sastri,  for	 therespondents.1958.  December 19.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyIMAM,  J.-This appeal is before us on a certificate  grantedby  the High Court as according to that Court a	 substantialquestion of law arose in the case which was stated by it  tobe " Is the adoption of the second defendant invalid, as theapproval  or  consent  of the  five  trustees  mentioned  inparagraph 14 of the will of Kari Veerappa, Exbt.  P-2(a) wasnot obtained; and is the authority to adopt at an end if anyone of those five persons did not accept the trusteeship  ordied  before the adoption or refused to give their  approval".  In	view  of certain matters about	to  be	stated,	 thequestion  of  law as propounded by the High Court  does	 notrequire to be considered.Kari  Veerappa	was  the  last	male  owner  of	 the  estatementioned  in his will, Exbt.  P-2(a), which he executed  onOctober	 10, 1920.  Under this will he authorised  his	wifeSetra  Veeravva,  first defendant, to adopt a  son  for	 thepurpose of continuation of his family as970he  had	 no  issue.   The authority  to	 adopt	was  in	 thefollowing terms:"  I  have given her permission to adopt as  many  times  aswould	be  necessary,	should	the  previous  adoption	  beunsuccessful.	But Veeravva must adopt only a boy  approvedby the respectable persons appointed by me in paragraph	 14;should Veeravva die before -making any adoption, the personsbecoming  trustees should arrange for the adoption of a	 boyfor  the  continuation of my family in	accordance  with  mykulachara (family usage)At  this  stage	 it is unnecessary to  refer  to  the  otherprovisions  of the will of Kari Veerappa.  This gentle.	 mandied  on October 23, 1920.  After his death, his widow	madetwo  attempts  to adopt a son in accordance with  his  will.The  first attempt was in 1939 which did not accomplish	 thepurpose	 of  the  will as the person alleged  to  have	beenadopted	 died.	 The  validity of this	adoption  was  beingquestioned,  but  as the boy said to have been	adopted	 haddied,  effects to dispute the adoption did not	materialise.Veeravva  thereafter,  on October 11, 1942,  adopted  seconddefendant,  Sesalvada Kotra Basayya.  Two documents in	thisconnection  are on the record.	The first document is  Exbt.D-25  dated  the  18th	of  September,	1942,  which  was  aregistered  agreement  to adopt the second  defendant.	 Thesecond	document  is also a registered	document,  which  isdescribed  as  the deed of adoption and is  dated  June	 23,1943.	This  clearly  states  that  on	 October  11,  1942,Veeravva had adopted the 2nd defendant.	 Reference was	alsomade  in  this document to the agreement  of  September	 18,1942.  The appellant claiming to be the nearest	 reversionerof  Kari  Veerappa  filed  the present	suit  asking  for  adeclaration  that  the adoption of the second  defendant  byVeeravva was invalid and not binding on the appellant or theother reversioners to the estate of the late Kari Veerappa.The  suit filed by the appellant was heard by  the  DistrictJudge of Bellary who dismissed it.  The appellant-  appealedto  the High Court of Madras.  His appeal was dismissed	 andthe decision of the District971Judge  was substantially affirmed.  The High Court  did	 notallow compensatory costs granted by the District Judge,	 nordid it agree with his finding that the appellant had  failedto prove the relationship he had propounded and that lie was-not a reversioner at all, far less the nearest reversioner.In  the	 opinion  of the High Court,  the  appellant  was  arelative and a reversioner, though he had not proved that hewas the nearest reversioner alive at the time the appeal washeard  and  that he need not prove this	 until	he  actuallysought	 to  recover  possession  of  the   property   afterVeeravva's death.When  this appeal came on for hearing the  learned  Advocatefor  the respondents took a preliminary objection  that	 thesuit  filed by the plaintiff must in any event fail,  havingregard	to the provisions of s. 14 of the  Hindu  SuccessionAct, 1956 (30 of 1956), hereinafter referred to as the	Act.Hence the present appeal arising out of that suit must	alsofail.	It was contended on behalf of the  respondents	thateither	there  was a valid adoption or there  was  not.	  Ifthere  was  a valid adoption and the decisions of  the	HighCourt and the District Judge on this question were  correct,then obviously the suit of the appellant must be  dismissed.If, on the other hand, it was found that the adoption of thesecond defendant by Veeravva was either invalid or, in fact,had  not taken place, then under the provisions of s. 14  ofthe  Act,  Veeravva became the full owner of  her  husband'sestate	and was not a limited owner thereof.   Consequently,the appellant's suit was not maintainable.  In, view of thissubmission  we are of the opinion that the point  raised  byway  of preliminary objection must first be  considered	 anddecided.   It  is well settled that an	appellate  court  isentitled  to take into consideration any change in  the	 law(vide  the case of Lachmeshwar Prasad Shukul v. Keshwar	 LalChaudhuri(1).Section 14 of the Act states:-"  14(1) Any property possessed by a female  Hindu,  whetheracquired before or after the commencement of this Act, shallbe  held by her as full owner thereof and not as  a  limitedowner.(1)  [1940] F.C.R. 84.972Explanation.-In this sub-section, " property" includes	bothmovable and immovable property acquired by a female Hindu byinheritance  or	 devise, or at a partition, or	in  lieu  ofmaintenance  or arrears of maintenance, or by gift from	 anyperson,	 whether a relative or not, before, at or after	 hermarriage, or by her own skill or exertion, or by purchase orby prescription, or in any other manner whatsoever, and alsoany  such  property  held by her  as  stridhana	 immediatelybefore the commencement of this Act.(2)Nothing  contained in sub-section (1) shall apply to	 anyproperty  acquired  by way of gift or under a  will  or	 anyother instrument or under a decree or order of a civil courtor under an award where the terms of the gift, will or otherinstrument  or	the  decree,  order  or	 award	prescribe  arestricted estate in such property."On  behalf of the appellant it was urged that s. 14  of	 theAct  did not apply to the facts of the present case  becausethe  estate of Veerappa was not in possession of  his  widowVeeravva  but was in possession of the second  defendant  atthe  time  the Act came into force  and,  secondly,  becauseunder  sub-s. (2) of s. 14 Veeravva got a restricted  estateunder  the  will Exbt.	P-2(a) and the agreement  to  adopt,Exbt.	D-25.  It was submitted that the widow , s power  ofadoption  did not depend on her ownership of the  estate  ofher  husband.	That power in the present case	was  derivedunder  the Hindu law either from the authority conferred  byher husband or the consent of his agnates.  The Act did	 notenlarge her power of adoption and did not render an  invalidadoption made by her immune from attack by the	reversionersduring	her life time.	The act of Veeravva in	the  presentcase was to bring in a stranger.  The appellant as a  rever-sioner	was,  therefore, entitled during the  life  time  ofVeeravva  to bring the present suit to obtain a	 declarationthat the adoption of the second defendant was invalid.The  question raised by the preliminary objection  taken  bythe  respondents must be considered an the  assumption	thatthe adoption of the second defendant973was  invalid.  The provisions of a. 14 of the Act would	 notarise  for consideration, if the second defendant  had	beenvalidly	 adopted.  It is necessary, therefore, to  determinewhether	 the provisions of s. 14 apply to the facts  of	 thepresent case.It  was strongly urged on behalf of the appellant  that	 thewords " any property possessed by a female Hindu " in s.  14of  the	 Act referred to actual possession of  the  propertywhether	 the property was acquired before or after  the	 Actcame  into  force.  This was a condition  precedent  to	 theapplicability  of  the provisions of s. 14  to	the  presentcase.	Since the Act came into force on June 17, 1956,	 andthe decision of the High Court was given on March 25,  1955,the  question  as  to who was in actual	 possession  of	 theestate	of Veerappa did not arise for consideration  on	 thecase of the appellant set out in his plaint.  The  appellantshould accordingly be given an opportunity to have a findingrecorded  on this question after the taking of	evidence  inthat  respect.	 On behalf of the respondents it  was  urgedthat the words " any property possessed by a female Hindu  "did not refer merely to actual physical possession only	 butto ownership and possession in law as well.It was further urged on behalf of the respondents that	evenif  it	be assumed that the words " possessed  by  a  femaleHindu " mean actual possession then, in the present case, ithad  been proved that Veeravva was in actual  possession  ofthe  estate  of Veerappa when the Act came into	 force.	  Itcould  not  be	disputed  that on  the	death  of  Veerappa,Veeravva  came	into possession of his estate and  that	 sheremained in possession at least until 1942 when the adoptionof  the second defendant is said to have taken	place.	 Buteven on the adoption of the second defendant, the  agreementto adopt dated September 18, 1942, stated that Veeravva	 wasto  remain in possession of her husband's estate during	 herlife  time  in	spite  of  the	adoption.   In	the  writtenstatement filed by Veeravva and the second defendant it	 wasclearly	 stated in para. 6 thereof that Veeravva  came	intopossession of her husband's property and that she  recoveredpossession974of the property covered by the decree in 0. S. 20 of 1921 onthe file of the Subordinate Judge's Court, Bellary, and thatshe had been in sole possession of the said property  up-to-date and that although she had adopted the second  defendanton  October  11, 1942, it was subject to  retention  of	 theenjoyment, possession and management by her of her husband'sproperty during her life time.	An affidavit had been  filedin  this  Court	 by the second defendant  in  which  he	 hasclearly admitted that Veeravva is still in possession of hisadoptive  father's estate in pursuance of the  agreement  ofSeptember  18, 1942.  This was an admission against his	 owninterest by the second defendant which he was not likely  tomake unless it was a fact that Veeravva was in possession ofthe estate since her husband's death up to the present.	  Inanswer to the affidavit of the second defendant and Veeravvathat she was in actual possession, the appellant had  failedto  file an affidavit with any clear assertion that  to	 hisknowledge  Veeravva  was not in Possession.   The  affidavitfiled by the appellant was in the nature of submissions madeto the Court rather than an affidavit in which facts to	 hisknowledge  were	 asserted.   In	 para. 2  he  had  made	 thesignificant statement " I understand that the possession  ofthe  suit  properties has been and is now, in truth  and  infact,  with the alleged adopted son, the second	 petitioner.He is in possession of these properties and is dealing	withthem." He did not disclose bow he came to under. stand this.He  certainly  did not assert that all that  was  stated  inpara.  2  was  to his knowledge.   As  an  alternative,	 theappellant  in para. 4 of his affidavit had submitted  ,If  Isucceed in proving that the adoption is not true and  valid,the   petitioners  cannot  turn	 round	and  say  that	 thepossession of the first petitioner is that of a widow of  anintestate  and	invoke	the  provisions	 of  s.	 14  of	 theSuccession Act." He had further submitted in this  paragraphthat,  even on the case of the respondents set out in  theirpetition  for adding additional grounds,  Veeravva's  estatewas  divested  by  the	adoption,  and	as-  she  came	intopossession by reason of the ante-adoption agreement975Exbt.  D-25, s. 14 of the Act was not applicable.  It  seemsto us that if it were permissible to decide the question  ofVeeravva's  possession on only the affidavits before us,  wewould  find  no	 difficulty  in	 holding  that	she  was  inpossession  of her husband's estate when the Act  came	intoforce.	It is to be remembered, however, that this  questionhas arisen now and the appellant has had no real opportunityto  establish his assertion that the second defendant is  inactual	possession  and	 not  Veeravva.	  It  is   necessarytherefore  to  consider	 the true scope and  effect  of	 theprovisions of sub-s. (1) of a. 14 of the Act.  If the  words" possessed by a female Hindu " occurring therein refer onlyto  actual physical possession, it may be necessary to	callfor a finding on the question of such possession; if, on thecontrary,  these words have a wide connotation	and  includeconstructive   possession   or	possession   in	  law,	 thepreliminary objection can be determined on the footing	thatVeeravva was in such possession at the relevant time.The provisions of s. 14 of the Act have been the subject  ofscrutiny and interpretation by various High Courts.  In	 thecase  of Rama Ayodhya Missir v. Raghunath Missir (1) and  inthe case of Mt.	 Janki Kuer v. Chhathu Prasad (2) the  PatnaHigh Court took the view that the effect of ss. 14 and 15 ofthe Act was that a reversioner recognised as such under	 theHindu  law  was	 no more a reversioner, as  a  female  Hindupossessing  any property, whether acquired before  or  afterthe  commencement of the Act, held not a limited estate	 butan absolute estate therein, and after the coming into  forceof the Act, he had no right of reversion or any kind Of Spessuccessionsis.	The High Courts of Calcutta, Andhra  Pradeshand Madhya Pradesh have taken a view which does not  supportthe view expressed by the Patna High Court in the  aforesaidcases, The High Court of 'Madhya Pradesh in the case of	 Mt.Lukai  v. Niranjan (3) dissented from the decisions  of	 thePatna High Court in the above-mentioned cases.' Indeed,	 thePatna High Court in the case of(1)A.I.R. 1957 Pat. 480.     (2) A.I.R. 1957 Pat. 674.       (3) A.I.R. 1058 Madh.  Pra. 160.976Harak  Singh  v. KailaSh Singh (1)  overruled  its  previousdecisions  referred to above, and rightly pointed  out	thatthe  object  of the Act was to improve the legal  status  ofHindu  women, enlarging their limited interest	in  propertyinherited or held by them to an absolute interest,  providedthey  were in possession of the property when the  Act	cameinto  force and, therefore, in a position to take  advantageof  its beneficial provisions; but the Act was not  intendedto  benefit alienees who with their eyes open purchased	 theproperty   from	 the  limited  owners	without	  justifyingnecessity before the Act came into force and at a time	whenthe vendors had only a limited interest of Hindu women.In  the	 case  before us, the essential	 question  for	con-sideration is as to how the words "any property possessed bya  female  Hindu,  whether  aquired  before  or	 after	 thecommencement  of  this Act " in a. 14 of the Act  should  beinterpreted.  Section 14 refers to property which was eitheracquired  before  or after the commencement of the  Act	 andthat  such property should be possessed by a  female  Hindu.Reference  to property acquired before the  commencement  ofthe  Act certainly makes the provisions of the	section	 re-trospective,  but even in such a case the property  must  bepossessed  by a female Hindu at the time the Act  came	intoforce  in  order  to  make the	provisions  of	the  sectionapplicable.   There is no question in the present case	thatVeeravva  acquired  the	 property of  her  deceased  husbandbefore	the  commencement  of the Act.	In  order  that	 theprovisions  of s. 14 may apply to the present case  it	willhave  to  be  further  established  that  the  property	 waspossessed  by her at the time the Act came into	 force.	  Itwas  the case of the appellant that the estate	of  Veerappawas  in	 actual possession of the second defendant  and	 notVeeravva at the relevant time.	On behalf of the  respondentit  was	 urged that the words " possessed by " had  a  widermeaning	 than actual physical possession, although  physicalpossession may be included in the expression.(1)  A.I.R. 1958 Pat. 581.977In  the	 case of Gaddam Venkayamma v.  Gaddam  Veerayya	 (1)Viswanatha  Sastri,  J., with whom Satyanarayana  Raju,	 J.,agreed, expressed the opinion that "the word ' possessed' ins.  14	refers to possession on the date when the  Act	cameinto force. course, possession referred to in s. 14 need notbe actual physical possession or personal occupation of	 theproperty  by the Hindu female-but may be possession in	law.The possession of a licensee, lessee or a mortgagee from thefemale owner or the possession of a guardian or a trustee oran agent of the female owner would be her possession for thepurpose	 of s. 14.  The word " possessed " is used in s.  14in  a  broad sense and in the context possession  means	 thestate  of  owning  or having in one's  hands  or  power.  itincludes possession by receipt of rents and profits.  "	 Thelearned Judges expressed the view that even if a  trespasserwere in possession of the land belonging to a female  owner,it  might conceivably be regarded as being in possession  ofthe female owner, provided the trespasser had not  perfectedhis  title.  We	 do not think that it is  necessary  in	 thepresent case to go to the extent to which the learned Judgeswent.  It is sufficient to say that possessed	  " in s. 14is used in a broad sense and in the context means the  stateof owning or having in one's hand or power.  In the case  ofGostha Behari v. Haridas Samanta (2), P. N. Mookherjee,	 J.,expressed  his opinion as to the meaning of the words "	 anyproperty  possessed  by a female Hindu "  in  the  followingwords:-"The opening words in " property possessed by a female Hinduobviously  mean	 that  to come within  the  purview  of	 thesection	 the  property must be in possession of	 the  femaleconcerned at the date of the commencement of the Act.	Theyclearly	 contemplate  the female's possession when  the	 Actcame  into  force.  That possession might have	been  eitheractual or constructive or in any form recognised by law, butunless	the  female  Hindu,  whose  limited  estate  in	 thedisputed property is claimed to have been transformed into(1) A.I.R. 1957 Andh.  Pra. 280.123(2) A.I.R. 1957 Cal. 557, 559.978absolute estate under this particular section, was at  leastin  such possession, taking the word " possession "  in	 itswidest	connotation,  when  the Act  came  into	 force,	 thesection would not apply-".In our opinion, the view expressed above is the correct viewas  to	how the words " any property possessed by  a  femaleHindu  " should be interpreted.	 In the present case if	 theadoption  was invalid, the full owner of  Veerappa's  estatewas  his widow Veeravva and even if it be assumed  that	 thesecond defendant was in actual possession of the estate	 hispossession  was	 merely	 permissive  and  Veeravva  must  beregarded  as being in constructive possession of it  throughthe  second defendant.	In this situation, at the time	whenthe  Act came into force, the property of Veerappa  must  beregarded in law as being possessed by Veeravva.It  was	 suggested that according to the will  of  Veerappa,Exbt.	P_2(a),	 in the properties mentioned in	 para.	1-ofthat  will,  Veeravva  got only a  restricted  estate.	 Theprovisions  of para. 4 of the will, however, make  it  clearthat  they  would  come	 into force  only  if  the  trusteesmentioned  in  the will and Veeravva  should  disagree.	  Nomaterial  was  shown to us that, in fact, the  trustees	 andVeeravva  had disagreed and that the provisions of  para.  4were given effect to.  Paragraph 12 of the will also  showedthat  if the adoption was invalid, the property devolved  onVeeravva as in intestacy.  It is clear, therefore, that	 theprovisions of para. 4 are of no assistance to the  appellantin  applying  the provisions of sub-s. (2) of s. 14  of	 theAct.   Reference  was  also  made to  the  contents  of	 theagreement, Exbt.  D - 25, dated September 18, 1942, in	thisconnection.   It is clear.' however, that by this  agreementno estate was conferred on Veeravva and she did not  therebyacquire any estate, much less a restricted estate.  All thatthis document stated was that there was an agreement betweenthe  guardians	of the boy to be adopted and  Veeravva	thateven  if  the  boy  is adopted,	 Veeravva  would  remain  inpossession and enjoyment of her husband's estate during	 herlife time.  In our opinion, there is979no material on the record by which it can reasonably be saidthat  the  provisions  of sub-s. (2) of s.  14	of  the	 Actapplied to the present case.It was urged that the act of Veeravva in adopting the seconddefendant was to bring in a stranger and this action of herscould be questioned by a reversioner, as any alienation madeby  her, during her life time.	Reference was made to s.  42of  the	 Specific  Relief Act,	Illustration  (f).   In	 ouropinion,  this	is  of no avail to  the	 appellant,  becauseIllustration (f) obviously refers to a Hindu widow's  estateand  has  no  reference to a full owner.   The	right  of  areversioner as one of the heirs under s. 42, Specific ReliefAct, is limited to the question of preserving the estate  ofa  limited  owner  for the benefit of  the  entire  body  ofreversioners;  but as against a full owner, the	 reversionerhas  no such right.  In our opinion, under the Act  Veeravvabecoming  a  full owner of her husband's  estate,  the	suitcould not succeed and the appeal must accordingly fail.In  our opinion, the appellant's suit was not  maintainable,having regard to the provisions of s. 14 of the Act, even ifit be assumed that there was no valid adoption of the seconddefendant.   The appeal accordingly fails and  is  dismissedwith costs.Appeal dismissed.