PETITIONER:STATE 0F BOMBAY & OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE HOSPITAL MAZDOOR SABHA & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:29/01/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.GUPTA, K.C. DASCITATION: 1960 AIR  610		  1960 SCR  (2) 866 CITATOR INFO : E&R	    1960 SC 675	 (8,9) F	    1960 SC1261	 (3) R	    1961 SC 484	 (2,6) E	    1962 SC1080	 (3,5,6,8,11) R	    1963 SC1681	 (12) E	    1963 SC1873	 (3,10,12,13) R	    1964 SC 903	 (11) R	    1964 SC1617	 (9) E	    1968 SC 554	 (12) RF	    1969 SC  63	 (7) O	    1970 SC1407	 (3,4,5,6,8,17,21,22,23) R	    1971 SC1259	 (2) RF	    1971 SC2422	 (17) R	    1972 SC 763	 (11,12,17,19) RF	    1975 SC2032	 (4) F	    1976 SC 145	 (5,6,7,9,10,29) R	    1976 SC1111	 (9) APL	    1978 SC 548	 (4,11,66,67,157,84,92,159,161) R	    1979 SC 170	 (16) RF	    1981 SC1253	 (9) D	    1981 SC2101	 (5) D	    1988 SC1182	 (5) RF	    1990 SC2047	 (7) RF	    1991 SC 754	 (12) R	    1992 SC 129	 (7)ACT:       Industrial  Dispute-Retrenchment	 of  workmen  by   hospital       without	compensation-  Validity-Hospital, if  an  industry-       'Industry'   Meaning- industrial Disputes Act. 1947  (14	 Of       1947). SS. 2(j). 25F". 251.HEADNOTE:The  services  of  respondents	2 and  3,  engaged  as	wardservants in the J. J. Group Of Hospital, Bombay, under Statecontrol	 and management were retrenched without	 payment  ofcompensation  as  required by S. 25F(b)	 of  the  IndustrialDisputes867Act, 1947.  The respondents applied to the High Court for  awrit  of mandamus under Art. 226 of the	 Constitution.	 Thesingle	judge who heard the matter held that non-payment  ofretrenchment  compensation did not render  the	retrenchmentorders	invalid	 as S. 25I of the Act  provided	 a  specificremedy for its recovery and dismissed the application.	 TheDivision Bench on appeal reversed the decision of the singlejudge  upholding the respondents' contention that  the	saidhospitals were an industry as defined by S. 2(i) of the	 Actand  non-payment of retrenchment compensation  rendered	 theretrenchment bad in law.  On appeal by the State of Bombay.Held, that the decision of the Division Bench was right andmust be affirmed.The  mandatory	language  of S.	 25F(b)	 of  the  IndustrialDisputes Act, 1947, plain and unambiguous in effect,  leavesno  manner  of	doubt that the payment	of  compensation  asrequired by it is a condition precedent to retrenchment	 andthat  S.  25I  Of the Act is intended  to  provide  for	 therecovery  of other monies that became due to  the  employeesunder Ch.  V of the Act.The  object and the scope of the Act, as apparent  from	 itsvarious provisions, made it amply clear that the Legislaturein  defining the word 'industry' in s. 2(j) of the  Act	 wasdeliberately  using term of wide import in its first  clauseand  referring to several other industries in the second  inan   inclusive	 way  obviously	 denoting   extention.	  Inconstruing the definition, therefore, it is inappropriate toapply  the  maxim noscitur a sociis so as  to  restrict	 itsmeaning.  The maxim is a rule of construction and can  applyonly  where the intention of the Legislature in	 associatingterms  of wider import with those or narrower import or	 themeaning of the wider terms used is in doubt.The  corporation of Glasgow v. Glasgow Tramway	and  OmnibusCo.  Ltd., 1898 A. C. 631, referred to.Nor  can  undue importance be attached to  the	conventionalmeaning	 attributed to trade or business in  construing	 thewide  words of the definition since it has lost some of	 itsforce  and can no longer be wholly valid for the purpose  ofindustrial  adjudication in a modern welfare state.   It  isclear that the presence of a profit motive or the investmentof  capital, traditionally associated with notion  of  tradeand  business,	can  be no indispensable  requisite  for  anindustry under S. 2(j) of the Act.Such  activities  of  the  Government  as  can	properly  bedecribed  as  regal  or	 sovereign  activities	easily	falloutside the scope of the definition.  But the field of	suchactivities  cannot  be extended to  cover  other  activitieswhich  are undertaken by the State in implementation of	 theDirective  Principles  of State Policy and the	ideal  of  awelfare State.Coomber v. Justices of Berks, 9 A. C. 61, referred to.Although  it 'may not be possible to enumerate all  possibleattributes that can make an activity an undertaking under S.2(j)  as being analogous to trade or business,	the  workingprinciple  should  be that any activity	 systematically	 andhabitually under-868     taken  for the production or distribution of  goods  orfor the rendering of material services to the community or apart of it  with the help of employees organised or arrangedin  the	 manner	   of  a  trade	 or  business  in  such	  anundertaking.  No question of the application of the doctrine of quid proquo    can arise in deciding such a matter,  for  that wouldonly  be  raising the question of profit motive	 in  anotherform.So judged there could be no doubt that the State in  runningthe hospitals in question was carrying on an industry withinthe meaning of the Act.D.  N.	Banerji	 v. P. R. Mukherjee, (1953) S.	C.  R.	302,Baroda Borough Municipality v. Its Workmen, (1957) S. C.  R.33, Sri Vishuddhananda Saraswathi Marwari Hospital v.  TheirWorkmen	 (1952)	 II  L. L. J. 327 and  The  Federated  StateSchool	Teachers' Association of Australia v. The  State  ofVictoria & Ors., (1929) 41 C. L. R. 569, referred to.Brij  Mohan Bagaria v. Chatterjec (N.  C.) (1958) L.  L.  J.190, disapproved.JUDGMENT:       CIVIL APPELLATE J-URISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 712 of 1957.       Appeal from the judgment and order dated April 18, 1956,	 of       the Bombay High Court in Appeal No. 65 of 1955, arising	out       of  the judgment and order dated July 28, 1955, of the  said       High Court is Misc.  Petition No. 113 of 1955.       C.   K Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, and R.    H.       Dhebar, for the appellants.       K.   R. Chaudhuri, T. S. Venkataraman and K. R. Sharma,	for       the respondents.       1960.	January	  29.	 The   Judgment	  of   the    Court       was delivered by       GAJENDRAGADKAR, J.-This is an appeal by the State of  Bombay       (hereinafter  called  the appellant) and two others  and	 it       arises from a writ petition filed against it by the Hospital       Mazdoor Sabha, a trade union registered under the Industrial       Trade  Unions  Act XIV of 1926 and two of its  members  Mrs.       Vatsala	Narayan	 and Mrs. Ruth	Isaac  (hereinafter  called       respondents I to 3).  Respondents IQ and 3 were employed	 as       Ward  servants  in  the	J.  J.	group  of  Hospitals.	The       superintendent of this said group of Hospitals informed	the       said respondents by notices issued respectively against them       that their services would be terminated with effect from the       dates  mentioned in the said notices and in accordance  with       the said notices their services were in fact terminated;       869       subsequently  in	 their place two State	servants  who  were       discharged   from   the	Civil  Supplies	  Department   were       appointed.   The	 writ  petition filed  by  the	respondents       alleged	that  the retrenchment of respondents 2 and  3	was       void  as it did not comply with the mandatory provisions	 of       ss. 25F and 25H of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14	 of       1947)  (hereinafter called the Act) and it claimed a writ of       mandamus directing the appellant to reinstate them in  their       posts.	This  petition	was resisted by	 the  appellant	 on       several	grounds.  It was urged that the orders	terminating       the services of respondents 2 and 3 were not void and so the       respondents' claim for a writ was unjustified on the  merits       and  it	was  argued that the writ  application	was  wholly       misconceived inasmuch as the J. J group of Hospitals did not       constitute an industry and so the relevant provisions of the       Act were inapplicable to the respondent's case.       This  writ  petition was heard by Tendolkar J.  The  learned       judge did not think it necessary to consider what he  called       the  somewhat ticklish question as to whether the  group	 of       Hospitals constitutes an industry because he held that  even       assuming	 that  the  relevant provisions	 of  the  Act  were       applicable and could be invoked by the respondents it	was       not  shown that the impugned orders were void.  In	his       opinion non-compliance with the provisions of s.	 251'	did       not  invalidate	the  said orders, and it was  open  to	the       respondents  to seek for an appropriate remedy under s.	251       of  the	Act.   He also held that  the  question	 about	the       application of s. 25H did not arise.  On these findings	the       writ petition filed by the respondents was dismissed.       The  matter was then taken before the Court of Appeal.	The       Court  of  Appeal  held that the	 impugned  orders  had	not       complied with the mandatory provisions of s. 25F and so they       were  invalid and inoperative.  That is why the question	 as       to  whether  s. 25H applied was not considered by  it.	The       finding	 that	the  impugned  orders  were   invalid	for       contravention of the mandatory provisions of s. 25F made	 it       necessary to decide the larger issue as to whether the Act       870	    applied  to	 the Hospitals.	 The Court  of	Appeal	has       observed that it was first inclined to send the matter  back       to Tendolkar J. but it was requested by the  learned counsel       appearing  for both the parties that it Would be	 better	 if       the said question was decided by it as it was a question	 of       law  and	 the  decision of the said issue by  the  Court	 of       Appeal  would avoid a remand and a further appeal.  That	 is       how  the	 issue was considered by the Court  of	Appeal	and       answered	 in favour of the respondents.	In the	result	the       decision of Tendolkar J. was reversed, the writ petition was       allowed	and  a writ in the nature of  mandamus	was  issued       against the appellant.       The appellant then applied for and obtained a certificate of       fitness	from  the  Bombay  High Court  and  with  the  said       certificate it has brought the present appeal before us.	 On       behalf of the appellant two points have been raised for	our       decision	 in  the present appeal: Was  the  Appellate  Court       justified.in holding that the contravention of the  material       provisions of s. 25F of the Act rendered the impugned orders       invalid; and do the relevant provisions of the Act apply	 to       the  group  of Hospitals run by the appellant; are  they	 an       industry within the meaning of the Act ?       Before  dealing with  these points it would be  relevant	 to       state the material facts in regard to the group of Hospitals       themselves which are not in dispute.  This group consists of       five  Hospitals.	 It appears that in 1835 Sir Robert  Grant,       the then Governor of Bombay, desired to start an institution       for  the	 purposes  of imparting medical	 education  in	the       Presidency  of  Bombay.	 His proposal in  that	behalf	was       sanctioned  by  the  Board of Directors of  the	East  India       Company and funds amounting to Rs. 44,000 were collected for       the  purpose  and  an equal amount was  contributed  by	the       Directors to defray the cost of construction of the  College       building.   'In 1843 the foundation of the  Medical  College       building was laid and the same was completed in 1845.  About       that time an idea of building a hospital for the sick people       of  all	classes	 and castes was mooted	and  Sir  Jamsetjee       Jeejibboy offered donation and some contribution was made by       the Government       871       with  which  the J. J. Hospital was constructed and  it	was       formally	 opened on May 15, 1845.  Similarly the other  four       Hospitals  in  the group were built in course of	 time  from       donations.   Except  for a small amount	of  Rs.	 10,000 the       rest of the expenditure which is in the neighbourhood of Rs.       27  lakhs is entirely met by the appellant out of the  grant       sanctioned in the budget under the bead " 38-Medical ".	The       group  is under the administrative control of  the  Surgeon-       General	of  the appellant and its  day-to-day  affairs	are       conducted and controlled by the Superintendent who is a full       time  employee  of  the	appellant;  the	 residential  staff       including  the Resident Medical Officers, Assistant  Medical       Officers,  Housemen,  Nurses and others	are  all  full-time       employees of the -appellant and their salaries are drawn	 on       the establishment pay bills every month and paid entirely by       the  appellant.	 This group serves as a	 clinical  training       ground for students of the Grant Medical College which is  a       Government  Medical  College  run  and  .  managed  by	the       appellant  for  imparting medical sciences  leading  to	the       Degrees	of Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery	 of       the  Bombay  University	as well	 as  various  Post-Graduate       qualifications  of  the said University and the	College	 of       Physicians  and Surgeons, Bombay; the group is thus run	and       managed	by the appellant to provide medical relief  and	 to       promote the health of the people of Bombay.       Now,  turning to the first point, it may be stated that	the       facts  on  which the respondents' plea is based are  not	 in       dispute.	 It is conceded that the services of respondents  2       and 3 have been retrenched though it may be for the  purpose       of  making room for other Government servants with a  longer       record  of  service who had to be retrenched  owing  to	the       closure of the appellant',-, Civil Supplies Department,.	 It       is also not disputed that the said respondents had not  been       paid at the time of retrenchment compensation as	 prescribed       by  s.  25F(b).	 The respondents' contention  is  that	the       failure to comply with the said requirement makes the  order       of  retrenchment invalid.  This plea has been upheld by	the       Court  of Appeal.  Section 25F (b) provides that no  workman       employed       III       872	     in any industry who has been in continuous service for       not less than one year under an employer shall  beretrenched       by  that	 employer  until he has been paid at  the  time	 of       retrenchment compensation which	  shall	 be  equivalent	 to       fifteen	days'  average	pay for	 every	completed  year	 of       service or any part thereof     in  excess  of  six  months.       Clauses	(a) and (c) of the said section	 prescribe  similar       conditions  but we are not concerned with them.	On a  plain       reading	of  s.	25F (b) it is clear  that  the	requirement       prescribed   by	it  is	a  condition  precedent	  for	the       retrenchment  of the workman.  The section provides that	 no       workman shall be retrenched until the condition in  question       has  been  satisfied.   It is difficult	to  accede  to	the       argument that where the section imposes in mandatory terms a       condition precedent, non-compliance with the said  condition       would   not  render  the	 impugned   retrenchment   invalid.       The  argument which appealed to Tendolkar, J., however,	was       that the consequence of non-compliance with the	requirement       of  s. 25F (b) was not to render the  impugned  retrenchment       invalid,	 because  be  thought that by  s.  251	a  specific       provision  has  been  made for the recovery  of	the  amount       prescribed  by  s. 25F (b).  Section 251	 provides  for	the       recovery	 of  monies due from employers under  Ch.   V,	and       according  to Tendolkor J. this provision covers the  amount       due to the workman by way of compensation under s. 25F  (b).       In  our opinion, this view is untenable.	 Having	 regard	 to       the fact that the words used in s. 25F (b) are mandatory and       their  effect is plain and unambiguous it seems to  us  that       the Court of Appeal was right in holding that s. 251 covered       cases of recover of ninnies other than those specified in s.       25F (b), an it is obvious that there are several other cases       i which monies become due from the employers to th employees       under  Ch.  V; it is for the recovery of the monies that	 s.       251 had been enacted.  Therefore, we see no substance in the       argument	 that the Court of Appeal has misconstrued  s.	25F       (b).   That  being  so  failure	to  comply  with  the  said       provision   renders   the  impugned   orders   invalid	and       inoperative,       873       Does  the said provision apply to the present proceedings  ?       In other words, is the Act itself applicable to the group of       Hospitals  with	which  are concerned ?	That  is  the  next       question	 which	calls for an answer in the  present appeal.       Indeed	it  is	this  general  question	 which	 has   been       strenuously  argued  before  us by  the	learned	 Solicitor-       General	on behalf of the appellant.  The decision  of  this       question	 depends upon the interpretation of the	 definition       of industry " prescribed by s. 2(j) of the Act.       Let  us first read the definition.  Section  2(j)  providies       that  ',industry"  means any business,  trade,  undertaking,       manufacture  of	calling	 of  employers	and  includes	any       calling,	 service,  employment,	handicraft,  or	 industrial       occupation  or  avocation of workmen.  It would	be  noticed       that the words used in the definition are very wide in their       import  and even so its latter part purports to	provide	 an       inclusive  definition.  The word "undertaking" according	 to       Webster	means" anything undertaken ; any business, work	 or       project	which one engages in or attempts, an enterprise	 ".       Similarly,  " trade " according to Halsbury, in its  primary       meaning, is " exchange of goods for goods or goods for money       ", and in its secondary meaning it is " any business carried       on  with a view to profit whether manual or  mercantile,	 as       distinguished  from the liberal arts or learned	professions       and from agriculture "; whereas " business " is a wider term       not  synonymous with trade and means practically "  anything       which is an occupation as distinguished from a pleasure	The       word  SC calling " again is very wide; it means`one's  usual       occupation,  vocation,  business or trade"; so is  the  word       "service"  very	wide in its import.  Prima  facie,  if	the       definition has deliberately used words of such wide  import,       it  would  be necessary to read those words  in	their  wide       denotation;  and so read, Hospitals cannot be excluded  from       the definition.       It   is,	  however,  contended  that,  in   construing	the       definition, we must adopt the rule of construction noscuntur       a sociis.  This rule, according to Maxwell, means that, when       two or more words which are susceptible of analogous meaning       are coupled toge-       874	    ther  they are understood to be used in  their  cognate       sense.  They take is it were their colour from each other,       that is, the more general is restricted to a sense analogous       to a less general.  The same rule is thus interpreted  in       "  Words	 and Phrases " (Vol.  XIV, P.  207):  "	 Associated       words take their meaning from one another under the doctrine       of  noscuntur a sociis, the philosophy of which is that	the       meaning	of a doubtful word may be ascertained by  reference       to the meaning of words associated with it; such doctrine is       broader than the maxim Ejusdem Generis." In fact the  latter       I maxim "is only an illustration or specific application	 of       the broader maxim noscuntur a sociis ". The argument is that       certain	essential  features or	attributes  are	 invariably       associated  with	 the  words  "	business  and  trade  "	 as       understood in the popular and conventional sense, and it	 is       the  colour of these attributes which is taken by the  other       words used in the definition though their normal import	may       be  much wider.	We are not impressed by this argument.	 It       must  be borne in mind that noscuntur a sociis is  merely  a       rule of construction and it cannot prevail in cases where it       is clear that the wider words have been deliberately used in       order to make the scope of the defined word  correspondingly       wider.  1 is only where the intention of the Legislature	 i       associating wider words with words of narrow significance is       doubtful,  or otherwise not clear that the present  rule	 of       construction can be useful applied.  It can also be  applied       where the meaning of the words of wider import is  doubtful;       but,  where  the object of the Legislature  in  using  wider       words   i  clear	 and  free  of	ambiguity,  the	  rule	 of       construction in question cannot be pressed into service.	 As       ha  been	 observed  by  Earl of	Halsbury,  L.  C.,  in	The       Corporation  of	Glasgow v. Glasgow Tramway an  Omnibus	Co.       Ltd.  (1),  in dealing with the wider word used in s.  6	 of       Valuation  of Lands (Scotland) Act, 1854 " the  words  'free       from  all  expenses  whatever i	connection  with  the  said       tramways'  appear to me to be so wide in	 their	application       that  I should have thought it impossible to qualify or	cut       them down by their being associated with other words on the       (1)  (1898) A.C 63, at p. 634.       875       principle  of their being ejusdem generis with the  previous       words enumerated ". If the object and scope -of the  statute       are considered there would be no difficulty in holding  that       the  relevant  words of wide import have	 been  deliberately       used by the Legislature in defining " industry" in s.  2(j).       The  object  of	the  Act was  to  make	provision  for	the       investigation  and  settlement of  industrial  disputes, and       the extent and scope of its provisions would be realised	 if       we  bear	 in mind the definition of " industrial	 dispute  "       given by s. 2(k), of " wagesby s. 2(rr), " workman " by s.       2(s), and of " employer	by    s.   2(g).    Besides,	the       definition  of public utility service prescribed by s.  2(m)       is  very significant.  One has merely to glance at  the	six       categories of public utility service mentioned by s. 2(m) to       realise that the rule of construction on which the appellant       relies  is  inapplicable	 in  interpreting  the	 definition       prescribed by s. 2(j).       There  is  another point which cannot be	 ignored.   Section       2(j)  does  not define " industry " in the usual	 manner	 by       prescribing   what  it  means:  the  first  clause  of	the       definition  gives the statutory meaning of " industry "	and       the second clause deliberately refers to several other items       of  industry  and  brings  them	in  the	 definition  in	 an       inclusive  way.	 It is obvious that the words  used  in	 an       inclusive definition denote extension and cannot be  treated       as  restricted  in  any sense. (Vide:  Stroud's	"  Judicial       Dictionary  ", Vol. 2, p. 1415).	 Where we are dealing  with       an  inclusive definition it would be inappropriate to put  a       restrictive interpretation upon terms of wider denotation.       Besides,	 it  would be relevant to point out that  too  much       reliance	 cannot	 be  placed on what are	 described  as	the       essential  attributes  or features of trade or  business	 as       conventionally	understood.    The   conventional   meaning       attributed  to the words "trade and business" has lost  some       of  it validity for the purpose of industrial  adjudication.       Industrial  adjudication has necessarily to be aware of	the       current of socioeconomic thought around; it must	 recogiiise       that   in  the  modern  welfare	State  healthy	 industrial       relations are a matter of paramount import-       876	    ance and its essential function is to assist the  State       by   helping  a	solution  of  industrial   disputes   which       constitute  a distinct and persistent phenomenon	 of  modern       ~industrialised States.	~In attempting to solve	 industrial       disputes	 industrial  adjudication does not and	should	not       adopt a ~doctrinnaire approach.	It must evolve some working       principles   and	 should	 generally  avoid  formulating	 or       adopting	 abstract generalisations.  Nevertheless it  cannot       harp  back  to old-age notions about the	 relations  between       employer	 and employee or to the doctrine of  laissez  faire       which  then governed the regulation of the  said	 relations.       That is why, we think, in construing the wide words used	 in       s. 2(j) it would be erroneous to attach undue importance	 to       attributes associated with business or trade in the  popular       mind in days gone by.       It is clear, however, that though s. 2(j) uses words of very       wide denotation, a line would have to be drawn in a fair and       just  manner  so as to exclude some  callings,  services	 or       undertakings.  If all the words used are given their  widest       meaning, all services and all callings would come within the       purview	of  the	 definition; even  service  rendered  by  a       servant purely in a personal or domestic matter or even in a       casual way would fall within the definition.  It is not	and       cannot  be  suggested  that  in	its  wide  sweep  the  word       "service" is intended to include service howsoever  rendered       in whatsoever capacity and for whatsoever reason.  We  must,       therefore, consider where the line should be drawn and  what       limitations   can  and  should  be  reasonably  implied	 in       interpreting  the  wide words used in s. 2(j); and  that	 no       doubt is a somewhat difficult problem to decide.       It is true that under the old-world notion prevailing  under       the  capitalist form of society industry generally means	 an       economic	  activity   involving	 investment   of    capital       systematically  carried on for profit for the production	 or       sale of goods by the employment of labour.  When it is urged       by the appellant that an undertaking should be analogous	 to       trade or business what is really intended is that unless the       undertaking  in	question  shares  the  aforesaid  essential       features associated with the conventional notion of trade or       877       business it should not be treated as falling under s.  2(j).       There  are  two	serious difficulties in	 accepting  such  a       suggestion,  and indeed the appellant concedes the  presence       of  these two difficulties.  It is not disputed	 that under       s. 2(j) an activity can and must be regarded as an  industry       even though in carrying it out profit motive may be  absent.       It  is also common ground that the absence of investment	 of       any  capital  would not make a material	difference  to	the       applicability  of  s.  2(j).  Thus,  two	 of  the  important       attributes conventionally associated with trade or  business       are  not	 necessarily predicated in  interpreting  s.  2(j).       What then can be said to be the attributes or features which       should be common between trade and business on the one  hand       and  an undertaking and other items mentioned in s. 2(j)	 on       the other ?       It would be possible to exclude some activities from s. 2(j)       without any difficulty.	Negatively stated the activities of       the  Government which can be properly described as regal	 or       sovereign  activities  are outsidly the scope  of  s.  2(j).       These  are functions which a constitutional  Government	can       and  must  undertake  for governance and	 which	no  private       citizen can undertake.  This position is not in dispute.	 An       attempt	is, however, made by the appellant to suggest  that       in view of the Directive Principles enunciated in Part IV of       the Constitution and in view of the ideal of a welfare State       which has been placed before the country, Governments,  both       at  the	level  of  the States as well  as  at  the  Centre,       undertake  several welfare activities; and the  argument	 is       that the field of governmental or regal activities which are       excluded from the operation of s. 2(j) should be extended to       cover  other  activities undertaken by  the  Governments	 in       pursuit	of  their welfare policies.  In our  opinion,  this       contention cannot be accepted . The activities which do	not       fall within s. 2(j) and which are described as  governmental       or  regal or sovereign have been pithily described  by  Lord       Watson  as  "the	 primary and  inalienable  functions  of  a       constitutional  Government"  (Vide: Coomber v.  Justices	 of       Berks(1) ); and it is only these activities that are outside       the scope of s.	   2(j).   It sounds incongruous and  self-       contradictory (1) (1883) App. cas. 61.       878	    to suggest that activities undertaken by the Government       in the interests of socioeconomic progress of the country as       beneficial measures should be exempted from the operation of       the  Act which in substance is a very  important	 beneficial       measure itself       In this connection it would be relevant to  point out  that       the  definition of the word "employer" given by s.  2(g)	 is       not  without  significance:  an "employer"  means  under	 s.       2(g)(i)	"in relation to an industry carried on by or  under       the authority of any department of the Central Government or       State  Government  authority prescribed in this	behalf,	 or       where   no   authority  is  prescribed  the  head   of	the       department."  This  definition clearly  indicates  that	the       Legislature   intended  the  application	 of  the   Act	 to       activities of the Government which fall within s. 2(j).       In  considering	the  question as to whether  the  group	 of       Hospitals  run by the appellant undoubtedly for the  purpose       of giving medical relief to the citizens and for helping	 to       impart medical education are an undertaking or not, it would       be pertinent to enquire whether an activity of a like nature       would  be  an undertaking if it is carried on by	 a  private       citizen	or a group of private citizens.	 There is no  doubt       that if a hospital is run by private citizens for profit	 it       would be an undertaking very much like the trade or business       in  their conventional sense.  We have already  stated  that       the presence of profit motive is not essential for  bringing       an undertaking within s. 2 (j).	If that be so, if a private       citizen	runs a hospital without charging any fees from	the       patients treated in it would nevertheless be an	undertaking       under s. 2(j).  Thus the character of the activity  involved       in running a hospital brings the institution of the hospital       within  s.  2(j).   Does it make	 any  difference  that	the       hospital	 is run by the Government in the interpretation	 of       the  word  "undertaking" in s. 2(j) ? In	 our  opinion,	the       answer to this question must be in the negative.	 It is	the       character  of the activity which decides the question as	 to       whether	the activity in question attracts the provision	 of       s.  2(j);  who  conducts	 the activity  and  whether  it	 is       conducted  for  profit  or  not	do  not	 make  a   material       difference.       879       We have yet to decide which are the attributes the  presence       of  which makes in activity an under taking within s.  2(j),       on the ground that it is analogous to trade or business.	 It       is difficult to state these possible,  attributes definitely       or  exhaustively;  as a working principle it may	 be  stated       that an activity systematically or habitually undertaken for       the production or distribution of goods or for the rendering       of material services to the community at large or a part	 of       such   community	 with  the  help  of  employees	  -is	an.       undertaking.   Such an activity generally involves  the	co-       operation of the employer and the employees; and its  object       is  the	satisfaction of material human needs.  It  must	 be       organised or arranged in a manner in which trade or business       is  generally organised or arranged.  It must not be  casual       nor  must  it  be for oneself nor for  pleasure.	  Thus	the       manner  in  which the activity in question is  organised	 or       arranged, the condition of the co-operation between employer       and the employee necessary for its success and its object to       render material service to the community can be regarded	 as       some of the features which are distinctive of activities	 to       which  s. 2(j) applies.	Judged by this test there would	 be       no  difficulty in holding that the State is carrying  on	 an       undertaking when it runs the group of Hospitals in question.       Is quid pro quo necessary for bringing an activity under	 s.       2(j) ? It has been urged before us that though profit motive       may not be essential, it is nevertheless necessary that	the       person  who  carries  on the activity  should  receive  some       consideration in return ; and it is only if the test of quid       pro  quo is satisfied that an activity should be treated	 as       an  undertaking.	 Though this argument is put in a  slightly       different form, in substance it is really based on the  idea       that  profit  motive is necessary to make  any  activity	 an       undertaking analogous to trade or, business.  If the absence       of  profit  motive is immaterial why should an  activity	 be       excluded from s. 2(j) merely because the person	responsible       for  the conduct of the activity expects	 no  consideration,       does  not  want	any  quid  pro	quo  and  is  actuated	 by       philanthropic  or  charitable motive ? In  our  opinion,	 in       deciding the question as       112       880	to whether any activity in question is an undertaking under       s.   2(j)  the  doctrine	 of  quid  pro	quo  can  have	 no       application.   Therefore,  we are satisfied  that  the  High       Court was right in coming to the conclusion	       that       the  conduct  and running of the group of Hospitals  by	the       appellant amounted to an undertaking under  s. 2 (j) and the       relevant provisions of the Act were applicable.       In this connection it would be relevant to refer to the fact       that  in	 the  First Schedule to the  Act  which	 enumerates       industries  which may be declared as public utility  service       under  s. 2(n)(vi), three entries have been added by Act	 36       of  1956.   They	 are  Defence  Establishment,  services	 in       hospitals  and dispensaries, and Fire, Brigade service.	 In       other words, by the addition of these three entries the Leo-       islature has clearly indicated its intention that service in       hospitals  and dispensaries can be declared to be  a  public       utility	service	 under s. 2(n)(vi); and there is  no  doubt       that unless the service in hospitals falls under s. 2(j) and       is  treated  as an industry it cannot be declared  to  be  a       public  utility	service.  It is true that  this	 particular       entry  had  not been included in the First Schedule  at	the       time when the present reference wag made, but its subsequent       inclusion can be reasonably taken as evidence of legislative       intention,  and,	 if on a construction of s.  2(j)  we  have       independently   reached	the  conclusion	 that  service	 in       hospitals  is  service  or the conduct of  hospitals  is	 an       undertaking, we may reasonably seek to derive  corroboration       to our conclusion by this subsequent legislative enactment,.       After  the  addition  of the relevant  entry  in	 the  First       Schedule	 it  would not be open to anybody to  suggest  that       service in hospitals does not fall under s. 2(j).       It  now remains to consider some of the decisions  to  which       our  attention  was  invited.  In D. N.	Banerji	 v.  P.	 R.       Mukherjee  &  Ors.  (1), this Court was	dealing	 with  a  a       industrial dispute raised by the Municipal Workers' Union of       the  Budge  Budge Municipality, on behalf  of  the  Sanitary       Inspector  and  Head Clerk of the said Municipality  on	the       ground  that  the  dismissal  of	 the  said  two	  Municipal       employees was unjustified and       (1)[1953] S.C.R. 302.       881       illegal,	 and  that  they  were	entitled  to  an  order	 of       reinstatement.  The dispute thus referred to the	 Industrial       Tribunal was decided in favour of the Union and an award was       made  directing the Municipality to  reinstate the  said two       employees.   The	 Municipality then took the matter  to	the       High Court at Calcutta by means of a petition for a writ	 of       certiorari under Arts. 226 and 227 of the Constitution.	 It       was  urged  in  support of the petition	that  the  Act	was       inapplicable  to the dispute in question and that there	was       really no industrial dispute which could be validly referred       to  the	Industrial Tribunal.  Other contentions	 were  also       raised  but  it is unnecessary to refer to them.	  The  High       Court rejected all the pleas raised by the Municipality	and       dismissed the application for a writ.  The Municipality then       brought	the dispute to this Court under Art. 132(1) of	the       Constitution.  This Court dismissed the appeal preferred	 by       the Municipality and confirmed the order of the High  Court.       In  dealing  with the appeal this Court	laid  down  certain       propositions  which  are	 relevant for our  purpose  in	the       present	appeal.	 It was observed that " in determining	the       meaning of the word " industry " and " industrial dispute  "       it  was	necessary  to  leave  aside  the  original  meaning       attributed to the words in a simpler state of society;  then       the  contention of the Municipality that its  activities	 in       question	 did not amount to an industry were dealt  with	 in       these  words: " The only ground on which one could say  that       what would amount to the carrying on of an industry if it is       done by a private person ceases to be so if the same work is       carried on by a local body like the Municipality is that	 in       the  latter  there  is nothing like the	investment  of	any       capital or the existence of a profit earning notice as there       generally  is  in a business.  But neither the one  nor	the       other  seems  a	sine qua non or necessary  element  in	the       modern  conception  of  industry ". It is  because  of  this       positive decision that the appellant has fairly conceded	 in       the course of the argument before us that the absence of the       profit  motive or of investment of capital would not make  a       material	 difference  in	 determinig  the  character  of	 an       activity	 this  court has also examined the  other  relevant       factors pertaining       882	    to	the  construction  of the word	"  industry  "	and       industry dispute" and has declared its decision thus; Having       regard  to  the	definitions found In our  Act  the  aim	 or       objective that the Legislature  had in view and the  nature,       variety	 and   range  of  disputes   that   occur   between       employers and employees, were forced to the conclusion  that       the definitions in our Act include also disputes that  right       arise between municipalities and their employees in branches       of  work that can be said to be analogy to the carrying	out       of  a trade or business ". In the present appeal we have	 to       decide  the question as to ",hat attributes or features	can       be  said to make an activity in question analogous to  trade       or business.  Incidentally we may add that quite apart  from       the relevant considerations which we have already  discussed       it  would be difficult to suggest that though  the  sanitary       department of a local body is an undertaking under s. 2(j) a       hospital run by a Government is not.       This decision has been referred to by this, Court in  Baroda       Borough	Municipality  v. Its Workmen (1), and it  has  been       observed	 that  it is now finally settled that  a  municipal       undertaking  of	the nature with which the  court  was  then       concerned   is  an  industry  within  the  meaning  of	the       definition  of that word in s. 2(j) of the Act and that	the       expression"  industrial	dispute	 "  in	that  Act  includes       disputes	 between  municipalities  and  their  employees	 in       branches	 of work that can be regarded as analogous  to	the       carrying on of a trade or business.  In that case this Court       was  concerned with the claim for bonus made by the  workmen       of  the	Baroda Borough Municipality and	 it  was  rejected;       comment	has  been made by learned counsel on  some  of	the       grounds	accepted  by  this Court in support  of	 its  final       decision,  but  in the present appeal we are  not  concerned       with  the claim for bonus and it is not necessary for us	 to       refer to the said comment or to deal with it.       So  far	as the decisions of the	 Industrial  Tribunals	are       concerned it appears that the Labour Appellate Tribunal	has       held  as	 early as 1952 that a hospital	is  an	undertaking       within the meaning of s. 2(j).  In       (1)[1957] S.C.R. 33.       883       Sri  Vishuddhananda  Saraswathi Marwari	Hospital  v.  Their       Workmen	(1)  the, Labour Appellate Tribunal  considered	 at       length  the policy and object of the Act, several  judgments       cited  before  it  and  came  to	 the  conclusion  that	the       definition of industry in s. 2(j) was of wide amplitude	and       that  there was no good reason for cutting down its  natural       meaning	so  as	to limit  its  operation  to  profit-making       enterprises only.  It has not been suggested before us  that       this  view  has ever been doubted or dissented from  in	any       subsequent industrial adjudication.       In judicial discussions about the scope and character of the       concept	of  industry  as  it  has  developed  in  a  modern       democratic State the decision of the High Court of Australia       in  The	Federated  State School	 Teachers'  Association	 of       Australia  And The State of Victoria& Ors (2), is  generally       cited.  In that case, according to the majority decision	 it       was  held  that	the educational	 activities  of	 the  State       carried	on  under the appropriate  statutes  and  statutory       regulations  of	each State relating to	education  did	not       constitute  an  industry	 with the meaning of s.	 4  of	the       Commonwealth  Conciliation and Arbitration Act, 1904-1928  ;       that  the  occupation of teachers so employed  was  riot	 an       industrial  occupation; and that the dispute  which  existed       between	the  State and the teachers employed  by  them	was       therefore, not an industrial dispute within s. 51 (xxxv)	 of       the  Constitution.  Isaacs J., however, struck  an  emphatic       note of dissent, and the principles enunciated in this  note       of dissent have received approval from industrial  tribunals       in this country, and they have been rightly accepted by	the       Bombay  High  Court  as	affording  valuable  assistance	 in       deciding the question in the present proceedings.  Isaacs J.       has  uttered  a	note  of  caution  that	 in  dealing   with       industrial   disputes   industrial  adjudicators	  must	 be       conversant  with	 the current knowledge on the  subject	and       they should not ignore the constant currents of life, around       them for otherwise it would introduce a serious infirmity in       their approach.	Dealing with the general characteristics of       industrial enterprises the learned judge observed       (1) [1952] II L.L.J. 327.       (2) [1929] 4 C.L.R. 569.       884	    that  they	contribute  more or  less  to  the  general       welfare of the community; and he has reiterated his  earlier       observations  on	 the  point  in	 these	words:	"Industrial       disputes	 occur	when  in relation to  operations  in  which       capital	and labour are contributed in co-operation for	the       satisfaction  of human wants or	desires, those	engaged	 in       co-operation  dispute  as  to basis to be  observed  by	the       parties engaged, respecting either a share of the product or       any  other  terms  or conditions of  their  co-operation	 ".       According to the learned judge, the question must always	 be       decided	by determing the true character of the activity	 in       question.   It  is  these tests which  the  High	 Court	has       applied	in  deciding  the present dispute  and	we  are	 in       general	agreement with the decision of the High Court.	 We       ought to make it clear that in the present appeal we are not       expressing any opinion on the question as to whether running       an  educational institution would be an industry	 under	the       Act;   that   question  does  not  arise	 in   the   present       proceedings.       There are two more decisions to which reference may be  made       before we part with this appeal.	 In Brij Mohan Bagaria	And       Chatterjee  (N.C.) & Ors. (1), the Calcutta High	 Court	was       dealing with a dispute between an attorney of the court	and       some of his employees who bad been dismissed by him; and	 it       was  held that the said dispute was outside the	purview	 of       the  Act.   Sinha J., who heard the petition  filed  by	the       attorney,  observed that " however extended the	meaning	 be       given  to the word industry or to industrial dispute  or	 to       undertaking  or	calling	 we  cannot  include  within  their       concept	the  case  of  an  individual  who  carries  on	  a       profession dependent upon its own intellectual skill ".	The       learned	judge  has  then added that " every  case  must	 be       decided upon its own facts ". It appears that, according	 to       the  learned judge, if an attorney or a doctor or  a  lawyer       who  follows  a	liberal profession, the	 pursuit  of  which       depends upon his own education, intellectual attainments and       special	equipment, engages employees, that would  not  mean       that the employer  is engaging in an industry under s. 2(j);       but with the question of the attorney or doctor       (1) (1958) 11 L.L.J. 190.       885       or  the lawyer we are not directly concerned in the  present       appeal.	 We  have,  however,  referred	to  this   decision       because, in the course of discussion, the learned judge	has       expressed his dissent from the view taken by the Bombay High       Court  in regard to hospitals, and we wish to make it  clear       that,  in  our opinion, the criticism made  by  the  learned       judge  against the inclusion of hospitals within s. 2(j)	 is       not  well-founded.   Dealing  with  a  similar  case  of	 an       attorney,  the Bombay High Court has taken the same view	 in       National	 Union	of Commercial Employees & Anr.	 And  Meher       (M.R.) & Ors. (Pereira Fazalbhoy & Co.) (1).       We  would accordingly bold that the High Court was right	 in       holding	that  the  dispute between the	appellant  and	the       respondents  was an industrial dispute to which s.  251'	 of       the Act applied.	 The order passed by the High Court on	the       writ petition filed by the respondents is confirmed and	the       appeal is dismissed with costs.					 Appeal dismissed.