PETITIONER:THE ASSOCIATED CEMENT COMPANIES LTD.,DWARKA CEMENT WORKS, DW	Vs.RESPONDENT:ITS WORKMEN & ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:05/05/1959BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, S.K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR  967		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 925 CITATOR INFO : R	    1959 SC1081	 (12) F	    1959 SC1089	 (9) R	    1959 SC1114	 (6,8,9) F	    1959 SC1276	 (5,8) F	    1959 SC1317	 (3) F	    1960 SC  12	 (23) R	    1960 SC 571	 (5,6) R	    1960 SC 826	 (10) R	    1960 SC1003	 (5) F	    1960 SC1025	 (8) F	    1960 SC1346	 (5) F	    1961 SC 867	 (2,4,7,9) R	    1961 SC 941	 (2,7,9) RF	    1961 SC 977	 (7,9) RF	    1961 SC1165	 (2,5,6) R	    1961 SC1191	 (3) RF	    1961 SC1200	 (13) R	    1962 SC1221	 (4) R	    1962 SC1255	 (1,5,7) R	    1963 SC 474	 (4) R	    1963 SC1007	 (6,12,13) RF	    1963 SC1710	 (5) R	    1964 SC1766	 (13) RF	    1967 SC 691	 (7,11,22) R	    1967 SC1222	 (5) R	    1967 SC1450	 (5) R	    1968 SC 538	 (2,10,12,25,32) R	    1968 SC 963	 (2,3,11,12,25,26,28,29,30,31) RF	    1969 SC 530	 (8) RF	    1969 SC 612	 (23) RF	    1969 SC 976	 (13) R	    1971 SC2521	 (8,16,18) RF	    1971 SC2567	 (1) RF	    1972 SC  70	 (15,21) R	    1972 SC 330	 (7,18) RF	    1972 SC1954	 (15,23) RF	    1973 SC 353	 (22)ACT:Industrial Dispute-Bonus-Available surplus-Determination of-Full Bench formula-Basis-Applicability-Revision if  required-Prior	  Charges-Mode	 of    calculation-Gross    Profits,ascertainment  of-Rehabilitation  charges,  how	 determined-Gratuity  fund,	 whether  can be claimed  as  Prior  charge-Distribution  of surplus--Overtime Payment, if can be  takeninto consideration in awarding bonus.HEADNOTE:For  the  year	1953-54, the employers	paid  bonus  to	 theworkmen	 equal	to  three months'  wages,  but	the  workmendemanded  bonus	 equivalent to seven months and	 six  monthsbasic	wages  with  dearness  allowance.    The   employerscontended that after making deductions for the prior chargesfrom  the  gross  profits in  accordance  with	the  formulaevolved	 by the Full Bench of the Labour Appellate  Tribunalin  Mill Owners Association, Bombay v. The  -Rashtriya	MillMazdoor	 Sangh, (1950) L.L.J. 1247, there was  no  availablesurplus left and consequently the926workmen	 could claim no bonus.	The workmen  countered	thatthe formula required revision as the employers were becomingincreasingly   more  rehabilitation  conscious	 and   theirappetite  for  the  provision for  rehabilitation  was	fastgrowing	 with the result that in most cases, after  allowingfor  rehabilitation,  there  was no  surplus  left  for	 thepayment of bonus and the main object of the formula was thusfrustrated.  The workmen further contended that the whole ofthe  rehabilitation expenses should not be provided for	 outof  trading  profits and that the claim	 for  rehabilitationshould	be  fixed at a reasonable amount  and  the  industryshould be required to find the balance from other sources:Held,  that though there may be some force in the plea	madefor  the  revision of the Full Bench  formula,	the  problemraised	by the said plea is of such a character that it	 canbe   appropriately   considered	 only  by   a	high-poweredcommission  and not by this Court while hearing the  presentgroup of appeals.  Besides the Full Bench formula had on thewhole  worked  fairly satisfactorily in a  large  number  ofindustries  all	 over the country, and the claim  for  bonusshould be decided by Tribunals on the basis of this  formulawithout	 attempting to revise it.  The formula	was  elasticenough	to  meet reasonably the claims of the  industry	 andlabour	for fair play and justice.  If the content  of	eachitem specified in the formula was determined objectively  inthe light of all relevant and material facts, the  Tribunalswould	generally  find	 it  possible  to  make	  reasonableadjustments between the rival claims and provide for a	fairdistribution of the available surplus.Muir  Mills  Co. Ltd. v. Suti Mills Mazdoor  Union,  Kanpur,[1955]	1  S.C.R. 991, Baroda Borough  Municipality  v.	 ItsWorkmen,  [1957]  S.C.R. 33, Sree Meenakshi  Mills  Ltd.  v.Their Workmen, [1958] S.C.R. 878 and The State of Mysore  v.The Workers of Kolar Gold Mines, [1959] S.C.R. 895, referredto.The  formula  was based on two considerations:	first,	thatlabour was entitled to claim a share in the trading  profitsof the industry, because it had partially contributed to thesame; and second, that labour was entitled to claim that thegap  between  its actual wage and the  living  wage  should,within reasonable limits, be filled up.	 In dealing with theclaims	for  bonus, the two-fold basis of the  formula	mustalways be kept in mind.	 Further, it was not necessary	thatthe  workmen must actually manufacture or produce the  goodsbefore they become entitled to claim any bonus.Burma Shell Oil Storage & Distributing Co. of India Ltd.  v.Their Workmen, (1953) 2 L.L.J. 246, applied.The  working of the formula begins with the figure of  grossprofits,  taken from the profit and loss account, which	 arearrived at after payment of wages and dearness allowance  toemployees927and other items of admissible expenditure.  It would be opento  the	 Tribunal to examine the accounts  and	to  disallowdeliberate  and mala fide debit entries made to	 reduce	 theamount	of gross profits.  It would likewise be open to	 theparties to claim the exclusion of items, credit or debit, onthe ground that they were patently and obviously  extraneousand  entirely unrelated to the trading profits of the  year.But  the Tribunal must resist the temptation  of  dissectingthe balance-sheet too minutely or attempting to	 reconstructit.J.f. K. Cottton Manufacturers Ltd., Kanpur v. Their Workmen,(1954) L.A.C. 716, applied.The  formula  deals with the claims for bonus on  the  basisthat  the  relevant year is a self-sufficient unit  and	 theappropriate  accounts have to be made on the notional  basisin  respect of the said year.  Hence, the refund  of  excessprofits	  and	the  adjustment	 of  the   previous   year'sdepreciation  and  losses cannot be made against  the  bonusyear's profits.Model  Mills  etc.  Textile Mills, Nagpur v.  The  RashtriyaMills Mazdoor Sangh (1955) 1 L.L.J. 534; Bennett Coleman andCo. Ltd. v.    Their  Workmen, (1955) 2 L.L.J. 60,  referredto.After  ascertaining the amount of gross profits,  the  firstitem  of deduction therefrom relates to	 depreciation.	 Thedepreciation which has to be deducted from the gross profitsshould	be the notional normal depreciation as explained  inthe case of Surat Electricity Co. Ltd., (1957) 2 L.L.J. 648,and   should   not  include  the  initial   and	  additionaldepreciation allowable under the Income-tax Act.U.P. Electric Supply Co. Ltd. v. Their Workmen, (1955)	2L.L.J.	431; Surat Electricity Co's.  Staff Union  v.  SuratElectricity Co.	 Ltd., (1957) 2 L.L.J. 648, referred to.The  second item of deduction is on account  of	 income-tax.On  the	 balance obtained after deducting  the	depreciationfrom  the  gross profits the tribunal has to  calculate	 theamount of income-tax payable for the bonus year.  In  makingthis  calculation  it would not be reasonable to  allow	 theemployer to claim under the item of income-tax an additionalamount in respect of the two further depreciations which areexpressly  authorised under s. 10(2)(vi) of  the  Income-taxAct.   Therefore  the  two concessions	thus  given  by	 theIncome-tax   Act  should  not  be  taken  into	account	  indetermining the amount of income-tax under the formula.Sree  Meenakshi Mills Ltd. v. Their Workmen,  [1958]  S.C.R.878, explained and followed.The third item of deduction under the formula relates to thereturn	on paid up capital as well as working capital.	 Theformula provides generally for the payment of interest at 6%118928per  annum  on	the paid up capital and	 at  2%	 on  workingcapital.   These  rates	 are not inflexible  and  will	varyaccording to the circumstances of each case.Workmen of Assam Co. Ltd. v. Assaam Co. Ltd., [1959]  S.C.R.327  ;	Rustom	and Hoynsby (India) Ltd.  v.  Their  Workmen(1955):I L.L.J. 73, Mill Owners Association, Bombay  v.	 TheRashtriya  Mill Mazdoor Sangh, (1952) 1 L.L.J. 518, Tea	 andCoffee Workers Union v. Brooke Bond (India) (Private)  Ltd.,(1956) 1 L.L.J. 645, U. P. Elcctric Supply Co. Ltd. v. TheirWorkmen, (1955) 2 L.L.J. 4I3, referred to.The fourth item of deduction is on account of rehabilitationwhich	includes  replacement  and  modernisation  but	 notexpansion.   Rehabilitation  has to be	calculated  for	 theplant and machinery as well as the buildings.  The whole  ofthe  rehabilitation charges have to come out of the  tradingprofits	 as this guarantees the continuance of the  industryto  the	 benefit  both	of the	employer  and  labour.	 TheTribunal has to estimate the probable cost of replacement ofplant and machinery at the time when such replacement  wouldbecome	due.  In determining such cost, the Tribunal has  toproject the price level into the future, determined not onlyin the light of the prices prevailing during the bonus year,but  also of subsequent price levels.  The decision  on	 thequestion  of the probable cost of rehabilitation  is  alwaysreached by adopting a suitable multiplier.  This  multiplieris  based on the ratio between the cost price of  the  plantand  machinery and the probable price which may have  to  bepaid  for its rehabilitation, replacement or  modernisation.As  there  has	been  a continuous  rise  in  the  price  ofindustrial  plant and machinery, the older the	plant  whichneeds rehabilitation, the higher is the multiplier.  If	 theemployer  has  deliberately  or	 mala  fide  refrained	fromrehabilitating	his  old machinery with a view	to  claim  ahigher multiplier, his conduct may be taken into account  indetermining the multiplier and the amount of  rehabilitationpayable	 to him.  Once a proper multiplier is  adopted,	 theprobable cost of rehabilitation can be easily determined  bymultiplying  the original cost by the multiplier.   At	thisstage  the divisor steps in.  The total amount required	 forrehabilitation	has to be divided by a suitable	 divisor  inorder to ascertain the annual requirement of the employer inthat behalf year by year.Before	 awarding  an  appropriate  amount  in	respect	  ofrehabilitation	for  the bonus year, deductions have  to  bemade, first on account of the break-down value of the  plantand machinery which is usually calculated at the rate Of  5%Of  the	 cost price, secondly the depreciation	and  generalliquid resources available to the employer other than  thoseearmarked   for	  specific   purposes,	 thirdly   all	 therehabilitation	amounts which may have been allowed  to	 theemployers in the previous years, but had remained unused  inthe meanwhile.929It is only after all the prior charges have thus been deter-mined and deducted from the gross profits that the availablesurplus	 can  be  ascertained for  payment  of	bonus.	 Theprocedure  adopted by some Tribunals of	 nationally  workingout  the amount of bonus and then giving it priority in	 thecalculations  before  the determination	 of  the  income-taxpayable	   inevitably	 lessens   the	 amount	   of	 taxproportionately,  and should be deprecated.   Rehabilitationcannot	be given priority before the income-tax	 payable  isascertained and deducted from the gross profits.No addition should be made to the list of prior charges	 re-cognised  by the formula even with respect to the  employersclaim for deductions on account of gratuity fund created forthe benefit of the workmen.  But the Tribunal ought to, whenthe available surplus is determined, take into account	sucha  claim  and  reasonable  amount  of  allowance  should  bedefinitely  borne  in mind in finally fixing the  amount  ofbonus.M/s.   Metro Motors v. Their Workmen, (1952) 2	L.L.J.	205,referred to.When  the  available  surplus has  been	 ascertained,  threeparties	 are  entitled to claim shares	therein	 :  labour'sclaim  for  bonus, the industry's claim for the	 purpose  ofexpansion  and other needs and the share-holders' claim	 foradditional  return  on the capital invested  by	 them.	 Theratio  of  distribution would obviously	 depend	 on  severalfactors:  such as the gap between the actual wages  and	 theliving	wages, the setting apart of a gratuity fund  by	 theemployer and the amount thereof, the extent of the availablesurplus,  the  dividends actually paid by the  employer	 andthose  paid  by comparable concerns,  the  probabilities  ofexpansion,  the general financial condition of the  employerand his necessity to meet urgent liabilities.It would be wrong on principle to take overtime payment intoaccount	 in calculating the bonus payable to  each  workman.Once the total amount payable as bonus is determined on	 theprinciples  as indicated, the question of  overtime  paymentbeing taken into account can no longer be a dispute  betweenthe  employer  and his workmen but one between	the  workmeninter se.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 459 and 460of 1957.Appeals	 by special leave from the judgment and order  datedthe 30th November, 1956, of the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay,in Reference 1. T. Nos. 10 and 13 of 1956.R.H.  Kolah,  Dadachanji  and  S.  N.  Andley,	for   theappellant.930C.L.  Dudhia and I. N. Shroff, for the respondents in  C.A. No. 459 of 1957.A.S. R. Chari and 1. N. Shroff, for the respondents in C.A. No. 460 of 1957.1959.  May 5. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR	J.-These two appeals arise out of  a  demandfor  bonus made against the appellants by their workmen	 forthe  year  1953-54.  The Associated Cement  Companies  Ltd.,Bombay,	 the Cement Marketing Company of India Ltd.,  Bombayand  the Concrete Association of India, Bombay,	 were  facedwith a demand of their workmen employed in their offices  atBombay	for  bonus equivalent to seven months'	basic  wageswith dearness allowance.  The industrial dispute arising outof this demand was referred by the Government of Bombay	 foradjudication  before the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay,  unders. 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act and it was numbered  I.T.  No. 10 of 1956.  The Associated Cement  Companies  Ltd.,Dwarka	Cement	Works, Dwarka, was similarly  faced  with  ademand	of its workmen for bonus equivalent to 50% of  totalearnings  or six months' total earnings.  This	dispute	 wasreferred to the same tribunal and was numbered 1. T. No.  13of  1956.   By consent of parties both the  references	wereheard  together	 and  evidence was  recorded  and  documentstendered in the first reference.  By its award delivered  onNovember  30, 1956, the tribunal directed the  companies  topay their workmen drawing a basic pay or wages up to Rs. 500per  month bonus equivalent to 1/3 of their basic  wages  orpay  (less bonus already paid for the year 1953-54)  subjectto  the	 conditions specified in the award.  It	 is  againstthis award that the respective companies have preferred	 thetwo  appeals  by special leave.	 In this judgment  the	saidcompanies  will hereafter be described as the appellant	 andtheir workmen as respondents.The  A.	 C.  C. is the principal company  concerned  in	 thedispute.  The Cement Marketing Company of931India  Ltd.,  (hereafter  -called the C.  M.  I.)  has	beenseparately  registered under the Indian Companies Act  as  aJoint  Stock  Company;	but  it	 is  a	hundred	 per   cent.subsidiary  of	the  A. C. C. The C. M.	 I.  are  the  SalesManagers  of the A. C. C. while the Concrete Association  ofIndia (hereafter called the C. A. I.) is merely a departmentof the C. M. 1. As a result of the agreement which came intooperation  from' August 1, 1953, all financial	transactionsof the C. M. 1. in relation to sales now find a place in theaccounts  of the A. C. C. Similarly all of its fixed  assetshave been taken over and appear in the balance-sheets of theA.  C.	C.  All the three concerns have a  common  staff  inBombay.	  The  A. C. C. had already paid  to  its  employeesbonus  equivalent to three months' basic wages for the	year1953-54 and so had the C. M. I. to its workmen.	 It  appearsthat the C. M. I., including the C. A. I., undertakes to payto  its employees the same amount of bonus as has been	paidor awarded to the employees of the A. C. C.There is no dispute that the A. C. C. is the biggest amongstthe companies in India which manufacture cement.  It owns 15cement	factories  at  different places in India  and  2  inPakistan.  Out of the total quantity of cement despatched byall  the cement factories in India in 1953-54 the A.  C.  C.despatched 55.46 %. The A. C. C. came into existence in 1936as  a  result  of the merger of	 four  important  groups  ofcompanies engaged in the manufacture of cement.	 These	wereF. E. Dinshaw, Tatas, Killick Nixon and Khatau, groups.	  Itappears that 11 companies in all merged with the A. C. C.Before	the tribunal the case for the respondents  was	thatthe  appellant	held a position of monopoly  in	 the  cementindustry  and  was  easily in a position to  pay  the  bonusclaimed	 by them.  Their allegation was that  the  appellanthad  inflated the capital invested by the merging  companieswhile taking them over in 1936; it had set up new  factoriesout  of	 the  profits earned by	 it  without  raising  freshcapital	 and  thereby had used profits for  the	 purpose  ofexpansion.  In the year 195354 the appellant had capitalisedthe full amount932standing to the credit of the premium-on-shares account	 andhad  transferred a part of the reserves for taxation to	 thecapital account thus increasing the aggregate capital.	 Theemoluments  of the workers were inadequate and so they	wereentitled  to the bonus claimed by them in order to  fill  upthe gap between the actual wage paid to them and the  livingwage  due to them.  The respondents also contended that	 theclaim	made  by  the  appellant  for	rehabilitation	 andreplacement in the dispute for the year 195152 included	 notonly the amount required for rehabilitation and	 replacementbut also expansion; and so, according to them, the appellantwas  not entitled to any amount for rehabilitation  purposesin  the	 year  in  dispute.   They  also  alleged  that	 theappellant  was not entitled to claim. interest at more	than4% on paid-up capital and 2 % on working capital.  Thus	 therespondents  urged that if all the relevant facts are  takeninto account it would be found that the claim for bonus madeby  them  in  the two respective  references  was  just	 andproper.	  In  support of their case  the  respondents  filedseveral statements which, they claimed, had been prepared inaccordance with the Full Bench formula, and they also cross-examined  Mr. Tongaonkar who gave evidence on behalf of	 theappellant.This  claim was resisted by the appellant.  It was urged  onits behalf that the points raised by the respondents in	 thepresent references bad been heard and finally decided in theprevious  adjudication (Ref.  I. T. No. 115 of	1953)  whichdealt with their claim for bonus for the preceding year; andit was alleged that the respondents were barred from raisingthe  same questions over again in the present  adjudication.The cement machinery, though heavy, is subject to rigours ofextremely  tough and heavy duties and the machinery  has  torun  ceaselessly  day and night throughout  the	 year.	 Theappellant  contended  that,  having regard  to	the  specialfeatures  of  the cement industry, the machinery had  to  bekept  on  the highest standards of  maintenance	 and  neededfrequent  replacement and rehabilitation.  A cement  factoryis  a very expensive industrial proposition.  The  appellantdenied that933it  was	 in  a monopolistic position and  pleaded  that	 itsobject	was to deliver cement as cheaply as possible to	 theconsumers.   The  respondents' allegation that there  was  "puffing	 up  of block capital at the time of the  merger  in1936  " was denied by the appellant and it was not  admittedthat  ever  since its inception it had	steadily  made	hugeprofits.   The appellant also denied the allegation  of	 therespondents that the profits, coming out of the business hadbeen  used  in	expanding its factories.  It  had  used	 allavailable resources including premium on issue of shares anddepreciation   fund  for  replacement,	rehabilitation	 andmodernisation.	It was not true that the appellant had builthuge  reserves and that the wages paid by the  appellant  toits employees were inadequate; on the contrary they comparedvery  favourably with those in other comparable	 industries.The  appellant denied the statement of the respondents	thatno plant reinstatement reserve over and above the  deprecia-tion  allowance	 was necessary in the current  year  and  iturged that the calculations made by the respondents  allegedto be in terms of the Labour Appellate Tribunal formula wereinaccurate.  In its turn the appellant claimed more than  6%interest  on  paid-up capital and more than 4%	interest  onworking capital.  The appellant also emphasised that it	 hadalready	 paid  to  the respondents bonus  for  three  monthsthough the strict working out of the formula would show thatthere was no available surplus for the relevant year and  sothe respondents would not be entitled to any bonus at all.In  support  of its case the appellant examined	 Mr.  G.  R.Tongaonkar, its controller of planning and development,	 andproduced a statement (Ex.  C-2) showing the original cost ofthe  blocks to be replaced and the  approximate	 replacementcost.  It also produced amongst other documents a  statement(Ex.   C-10) showing the cost of the assets of	the  mergingcompanies  on July 31, 1936, as taken over by the  appellantand   the   statement  (Ex.   C-29)  showing   the   capitalexpenditure   from   1936-37  to   1953-54   on	  expansion,modernisation,	rehabilitation, replacement, sundry  capitaljobs, etc.934In addition a statement was filed by the appellant (Ex.	  C-23) showing that the calculations made under the Full  Benchformula	 would	show a substantial deficit  and	 that  wouldsupport its case that there was no available surplus for therelevant  year from which any bonus could be claimed by	 therespondents.Ex.  C-2 is a statement prepared by Mr.	 Tongaonkar  showingthe  original  cost  of the block to  be  replaced  and	 theapproximate  replacement  cost.	  This	statement  has	beenprepared  on  the  basis that the approximate  cost  to	 themerging	 companies of their assets as on 31-7-1936 was	5.73crores.	  It  is  admitted that this  statement	 has  lumpedtogether all the properties of the appellant including plantand  machinery,	 as well as buildings,	roads,	bridges	 andrailway-sidings	  and	has  classified	  them	 into	fourcategories.   The statement contains 9 columns.	  The  firstcolumn	gives  the year or years of purchase  of  machinery.This  could  classifies the four categories  of	 the  blocksaccording to their respective years of purchase.  The  firstcategory consists of blocks purchased up to 1939, the secondpurchased between 1940-44, the third purchased between 1945-47  and the last purchased between 1949-54.  Column 2  givesthe  original cost of the said categories as  on  31-7-1954.Column 3 gives particulars of such portions of the blocks ashave  been discarded, scrapped or sold.	 In this column	 theyears  in which the blocks were discarded, scrapped or	soldare indicated and their original cost is me935figures mentioned in col. 5 for 1939 and 1940-44 blocks havebeen arrived at by reducing the corresponding figures  givenin  col. 4 by 20%.  Column 6 gives the	approximate  presentlife of the machinery and plant mentioned in col. 4; col.  7sets out the breakdown value of the machinery referred to incol.  4,  whilst  col.	8  gives  the  approximate  cost  ofrehabilitation	of  machinery  as  shown  in  col.  5	lessbreakdown  value as shown in col. 7. The last  column  worksout  the annual requirements of the appellant in respect  ofthe  rehabilatation of the four categories of  blocks.	 Thefigures	 in  this  column are arrived  at  by  dividing	 theamounts	 mentioned  in	col. 8 by  the	respective  divisorsmentioned  in  col. 6. The total annual requirement  of	 theappellant  in respect of rehabilitation is shown as  of	 theorder of Rs. 3,29,61,752.Ex.  C-23 is a statement prepared by Mr. Tongaonkar to	showthe  deficiency	 in  profits  in  relation  to	payment	  ofadditional   bonus  claimed  by	 the  respondents  for	 theaccounting  year 1953-54.  This statement has been  preparedalternatively	on  the	 basis	of  statutory	depreciationallowable by income-tax authorities and also on the basis ofstraight  computation at ordinary rates.  The  first  methodresults in a deficit of Its. 107.20 lakhs, while the  secondin  a deficit of 97.86 lakhs.  In working out the  provisionfor   rehabilitation,	this  statement	 first	 takes	 thereplacement  cost of block up to 1939 as per Ex.  C-2 to  beRs. 1601.19 lakhs.  From this amount the available  reservesas on 1-8-1953 which are of tile order of Rs. 311 lakhs	 arededucted, leaving a balance of Rs. 1290.19 lakhs.  Then	 thereplacement  costs  of	the three  remaining  categories  ofblocks	are taken into account and all the said amounts	 aredivided	 by the appropriate divisors mentioned in col. 6  ofEx.   C-2.  The result is the sum of Rs. 284.48	 lakhs,	 andthat  is  claimed  by the appellant  as	 the  provision	 forrehabilitation under the formula.In his evidence Mr. Tongaonkar has given reasons in  supportof the respective multipliers and divisors adopted by him inmaking his calculations in Ex.	C-2. 119119936He  has also given several details on all the  relevant	 andmaterial   points  in  support	of  the	 appellant's   case.Naturally the respondents have cross-examined him at length.One  of the questions in controversy between the parties  inthe  present appeals centres round the appreciation  of	 Mr.Tongaonkar's  evidence and the value to be attached  to	 thestatements prepared by him.On  the	 contentions  raised by the parties  before  it	 thetribunal framed ten issues for determination and it has madeits  findings on them in the light of the  evidence  adducedbefore it.  It has held that the appellant had not  inflatedthe  capital invested by the merging companies while  takingthem over in 1936.  It has allowed 6% interest on the entirepaid-up capital of Rs. 1267.59 lakhs, and 4% interest on theworking	 capital.  In regard to the claim  for	depreciationthe  tribunal  has  held that  it  was	normal	depreciationcalculated  according  to  the straight	 line  method  whichshould	be  allowed.   On the question	of  income-tax,	 thetribunal  has  allowed the same at 83.4 pies in a  rupee  asclaimed	 by  the  appellant on its  net	 profits.   It	has,however, rejected the appellant's case that the income	frominvestments  in shares and securities received by it  shouldbe  excluded for the purpose of bonus; while it has  allowedthe sum of Rs. 10 lakhs provided by the appellant as  annualcontribution  to  the  reserve for  gratuity,  as  also	 theexpenditure   on   the	cost   of   dismantling	  buildings,prospecting   expenses,	  etc.	 It  did  not	accept	 therespondents'  case that the bonus paid by the  appellant  toits officers should be reduced or wholly disallowed for	 thepurpose	 of  calculations  under the formula;  and,  on	 thequestion  as to whether overtime payment should be  includedin  the	 payment of bonus, it has  upheld  the	respondents'contention and allowed the inclusion of the said payment.Having disposed of these minor issues, the tribunal examinedat  length the claim made by the appellant in regard to	 theprovision for rehabilitation, replacement and modernisation.Indeed	this  was  the	most  controversial  and  the	mostimportant issue raised937before	it.   The  tribunal examined  the  evidence  of	 Mr.Tongaonkar as well as Ex.  C-2 and other documents  producedby him, and came to the conclusion that " Ex.  C-2  presentsan  incorrect  and  exaggerated	 picture  of  the   A.C.C.'srequirements  of rehabilitation and replacement" and  so  itcannot	be  relied  upon.  According  to  the  tribunal	 themultiplier  4.28  adopted by Mr. Tongaonkar  was  itself  aninflationary  figure; and it thought that " the	 consequenceof  applying  it  not  to the  original	 price	but  to	 itsincreased  price  paid by the A.C.C. would be to  obtain  aninflationary  result.	It  appears that  the  tribunal	 waginclined to hold that 2.7 was a fair multiplier representingthe price increase over the pre-war base.  The tribunal	 wasalso not satisfied with Mr. Tongaonkar's evidence in  regardto the life of plant and machinery ; and so it held that theperiod	of  life  given	 in col. 6 of  Ex.   C-2  cannot  beaccepted as correct.  While dealing with the question  aboutthe rise in prices, the tribunal has held that it was  usualto  take the average level of prices prevailing in a  periodof  about five years in preference to the prices  prevailingin  a  particular year as was done by Mr.  Tongaonkar.	 Thetribunal subjected Mr. Tongaonkar's evidence on the questionof replacement, rehabilitation and modernisation to a  closeexamination  and  held	that  the  method  adopted  by	 Mr.Tongaonkar  in	distinguishing	between	 modernisation	 andexpansion  was of a purely subjective estimate " which	doesnot  bear the scrutiny of an objective test ". On the  wholethe  tribunal  was not prepared to accept  Mr.	Tongaonkar'sevidence at its face value and it was not prepared to  treatEx.   C-2  and consequently Ex.	 C-23 as  reliable.   It  isrelevant  to point out at this stage that the  tribunal	 hasnot made any finding about the life of the machinery nor hasit recorded any conclusion as to a proper divisor.  In	factit has completely left out of consideration Exs.  C-2 and C-23 while determining the amount which should be allowed	 forthe appellant's claim for rehabilitation for the relevantyear.The tribunal then examined the principle underlying the FullBench formula and held that, it was not938intended  to be worked out as a rigid mathematical  formula."  We  must make it ", says the tribunal, " as	flexible  aspossible  so as to do justice to everybody concerned in	 theearning	 of  profits".	The general question, which  it	 hasconsidered in this connection, is how far and to what extentprofits	 of a concern should contribute to the	satisfactionof  the claims of industry for	replacement;  rehabilitationand  modernisation.  It was impressed by the argument  that,where  the requirements under these items are so huge as  tobe  out	 of tune with the profits, it would be	open  to  anindustrial adjudicator to allow only a reasonable  provisionto  be made out of the profits for the said items and  leavethe industry concerned to tap other resources to make up thebalance.   In support of this conclusion it has referred  tothe observations made by F.R.M. de Paula in his	 "Principlesof Auditing", the report of the Taxation Enquiry  Commissionand  of the working party for the Cotton  Textile  Industry.It has also relied on a part of the speech delivered by	 Mr.J. R.D. Tata in addressing the annual general meeting of theshareholders  of the Tata Iron and Steel Company  in  August1950.In   this   connection	the  tribunal  has   expressed	 itsapprehension that if all the money required for a continuousprocess of modernisation and expansion is to come out of theprofits	 made by the concern, labour will rarely see  a	 daywhen  they will enjoy bonus granted to them out of  profits;though it has hastened to add that it was far from its	mindthat  a progressive concern like the A.C.C. should not	keeppace  with  time and modernise its machinery;  but  it	onlywished that it should give a fair deal to the workers in thedistribution  of  the  profits.	 Having hold  that,  if	 theclaims	for  rehabilitation turn out to be huge and  out  oftune with the profits made by the industry, it would be opento  the tribunal to grant the claim of the industry in	thatbehalf only to the extent that it deems to be reasonable andfair,  it proceeded to consider how far and to	what  extentthe  appellant's  claim	 should be allowed  in	the  presentproceedings.It is necessary to mention that in dealing with this939question  the  tribunal was considerably influenced  by	 thepast  conduct  of  the	appellant.   It	 thought  that	 forrehabilitation	the appellant had claimed no more  than	 Rs.192  or 193 lakhs in the previous  adjudication	 proceedingswhere the dispute for bonus had reference to the year  1951-52.   If  the claim then made by the appellant was  no	morethan  Rs.  192 or 193 lakhs, the present claim for  Rs.	 284lakhs,	the  tribunal thought,' was obviously  inflated	 andunreal.	 Similarly the tribunal emphasised the fact that theprogramme  earlier submitted by the appellant to the  TariffCommission  was in turn more modest than the claim  made  inthe  said adjudication proceedings.  It appears that in	 thesaid  programme	 the appellant had made out a case  for	 theestimated expenditure of Rs. 18.36 crores to be spread	overa  period of ten years from 1-8-1952 to 31-7-1962  and	thatworks  out approximately at the figure of Rs. 184 lakhs	 peryear.	It was on these facts that the tribunal held that  "if   the  A.C.C.  estimated  its  annual   requirements	  ofrehabilitation,	 replacement  and modernisation at  Rs.	 192lakhs  per  year during the period of ten  years  commencingfrom  1-8-1952, 1 do not think that it should be allowed  todepart	from  it  now".	  In  substance,  according  to	 thetribunal, the present claim for rehabilitation was very muchinflated,  it  had  no relation to  realities,	and  so	 theappellant should not be allowed to make such a claim.	Thatis  why it did not think it necessary to record any  findingas to the proper divisor, and to determine, in the light  ofMr.  Tongaonkar's  evidence, what approximately would  be  afair  or  reasonable  amount for  rehabilitation  under	 theformula.It  is thus clear that in making its final calculations	 thetribunal  has assumed that the claim made by  the  appellantfor  rehabilitation, replacement and modernisation  must  betaken  to be no more than Rs. 192 or 193 lakhs, and on	thatassumption it has considered to what extent the claim shouldbe allowed.  Ultimately the tribunal came to the  conclusionthat  in the circumstances of the case it would be  fair  toallow  the  appellant about Rs. 165 to 170 lakhs  as  annualprovision for the said items.  In support of this conclusion940the  tribunal has relied on the fact that for the two  years1952-53 and 1953-54 the appellant had spent about Rs. 339.76lakhs  for the purpose of rehabilitation,  replacement	landmodernisation and that works at the average of Rs. 170 lakhsper year.  The tribunal has then taken into account the factthat the appellant had a plant reinstatement reserve of	 Rs.235  lakhs  and	 a general reserve of Rs. 76  lakhs  in	 thebeginning of the year 1953-54.	If these amounts which wouldbe available for rehabilitation are spread over the ten yearperiod of the tentative programme planned by the  appellant,the  annual  figure  would come to Rs. 31  lakhs;  and	thisamount	would have to be deducted from Rs. 165	lakhs  whichthe  tribunal  was  inclined  to grant	in  respect  of	 therelevant  item.	  That	is how the  tribunal  has  made	 theappropriate  calculations under the formula, and  has  shownthat, even after the payment of one month's additional bonusas directed by it, the appellant would still be left with  asurplus of Rs. 23.48 lakhs.  That in brief is the nature andeffect of the findings made by the tribunal.Before dealing with the merits of the points raised in theseappeals	 it would be convenient to refer to the genesis	 andthe terms of the formula which has been evolved by the	FullBench  of the Labour Appellate Tribunal in the case  of	 TheMill  Owners  Association,  Bombay  v.	The  Rashtriya	MillMazdoor	 Sangh,	 Bombay (1) in 1950.  It appears  that	from1940  A.  D.  onwards  the claims  for	bonus  made  by	 theemployees  against their employers in  different  industrieswere  dealt  with  on an ad-hoe basis  from  case  to  case.Sometimes  the	employers voluntarily paid  bonus  to  theirworkmen;  and where disputes arose they were decided by	 thetribunals  in  the light of the circumstances of  each	casewithout	 relying  on any broad consideration  of  policy  orwithout	 attempting to lay down any general principles.	  In1948   a  bonus	 dispute  arose	 between  the  Mill   OwnersAssociation,  Bombay and its employees, and it was  referredfor  adjudication to the Industrial Court.   In	 consideringthis dispute the Industrial Court went(1)(1950) L.L.J. 1247.941elaborately  into the matter, laid down	 certain  principlesand awarded to the workmen bonus equivalent in amount to 3/8of  the	 total	basic earnings of each	workman	 subject  tocertain conditions.     In the subsequent year a similar dispute arose  betweenthe  same  parties;  and  it  was  again  referred  to	 theIndustrial Court for adjudication.  The Court made its awardon  July 7, 1950, directing 55 mills of the  Association  topay to their workmen, whether permanent or temporary, 1/6 ofthe basic earnings of each of them as bonus.  This award waschallenged  by the Association before the  Labour  AppellateTribunal.   It was urged on behalf of the  Association	thatthe wage structure in the textile industry had been  settledby  standardisation  and  so bonus must	 be  regarded  as  agratuitous payment; and it was argued that at any rate grantof  bonus  cannot be made for the purpose of making  up	 thedeficiency  between  the  actual and  living  wages.   Thesecontentions  were rejected by the Labour Appellate  Tribunaland the question about the grant of bonus was considered  ongeneral	 principles on the basis of which a formula,,  oftendescribed  as the First Full Bench Formula,  was  ultimatelyevolved.   "As	both capital and labour	 contribute  to	 theearnings of the industrial concern ", observed the appellatetribunal,  "  it  is fair that	labour	should	derive	somebenefit	 if  there  is	a surplus  after  meeting  prior  ornecessary charges ". The appellate tribunal was also of	 theview that where the goal of living wages had been  attained,bonus, like profit sharing, would represent more as the cashincentive to better efficiency and production; but where theindustry  had  not the capacity to pay a living	 wage  bonusmust be looked upon as the temporary satisfaction wholly  orin  part  of  the needs of the employee.   In  other  words,according to this decision, the award of bonus is based on atwo-fold  consideration.  It is made in recognition  of	 thefact  that labour has made some contribution to	 the  profitearned	by  the industry, and so it is entitled to  claim  ashare  in  it;	and it is also intended to  help  labour  tobridge	or narrow down the gap, as far as may be  reasonablypossible,  between  the	 living	 wage  to  which  labour  isentitled and the actual wage received by it.942Dealing	 with  the  problem  from this	point  of  view	 theappellate  tribunal  conceded  that  investment	 necessarilyimplies the legitimate expectation of the investor to securerecurring  returns  on	the money invested  by	him  in	 theindustrial undertaking, and so it held that it was essentialthat the plant and machinery should be kept continuously  ingood working order for the purpose of ensuring that  return.Such   maintenance   of	 the  plant  and   machinery   wouldnecessarily be to the advantage of labour because the betterthe  machinery the larger the earnings and the brighter	 thechance	of securing a good bonus.  On this consideration  itwas  held that the amount of money that would  be  necessaryfor  rehabilitation,  replacement and modernisation  of	 themachinery  would be a prior charge on the gross	 profits  ofthe year.  Since the depreciation allowed by the  income-taxauthorities  is only a percentage on the written-down  valuethe  depreciation fund set apart on that basis would not  besufficient  for the purposes of rehabilitation and an  extraamount would have to be annually set apart nationally  underthe  heading  of 'reserves' to make up	the  deficit.	Thisposition was apparently not disputed by the employees.The  claim  made by the industry that a fair return  on	 thepaid-up	 capital  must	be secured and	that  ordinarily  itshould	be  paid at the rate of 6% per annum  was  also	 notdisputed.   The employees, however, challenged the claim  ofthe  industry  that  reserves employed	as  working  capitalshould carry any interest; but their objection was overruledand it was held that working capital also would be  entitledto  interest  though at a much lower rate than that  on	 thepaid-up capital.  Then the question of taxes was  consideredand it was agreed that a provision had to be made for  taxeswhich  would  be  payable on  the  amount  determined  afterdeducting depreciation from the gross profits less any bonuswhich may be awarded.  In the result the appellate  tribunallaid  down  the	 manner and method in  which  the  availablesurplus	 should be determined.	The notional accounting	 forthis  purpose  starts with the figure of the  gross  profitswhich are943arrived at after payment of wages and dearness allowance, tothe employees and other relevant items of expenditure.	Thena  deduction for depreciation is made, and on  the  notionalbalance	 thus  derived	a provision  for  taxes	 payable  isallowed.   Then	 follow	 the  provisions  for  reserves	 forrehabilitation,	 return	 on paid-up capital  and  return  onreserves employed as working capital.  That gives the amountof  surplus if' any.  Whenever the working of  this  formulaleaves	an  amount  of available surplus,  labour  was	heldentitled  to claim a reasonable share in this amount by	 wayof  bonus  for the current year.  This formula is  based  onconsiderations of social justice and is intended to  satisfythe legitimate claims of both capital and labour in  respectof  the profits made by the industry in a  particular  year.It  takes the particular year' as a unit and makes  all	 itsnotional  calculations	on the basis of	 the  gross  profitsusually	 taken	from the profit and loss  account;  in	thisparticular  case  the available surplus	 determined  by	 theapplication of the formula was found to be 2.61 crores;	 andout  of	 this surplus 0.30 crores were awarded as  bonus  toclerks and other staff and 1.86 crores was awarded as  bonusto  the	 employees leaving a net notional  balance  of	0.45crores.This Court had occasion to consider the said formula in MuirMills Co. Ltd. v. Suti Mills Mazdoor Union, Kanpur (1).	 Thejudgment  in  that case indicates  that	 without  committingitself	to  the acceptance of the formula in  its  entirety,this Court in general accepted as sound the view that  sincelabour	and capital both contribute to the earnings  of	 theindustrial  concern,  it is fair that labour  should  derivesome  benefit if there is a surplus after meeting  the	fourprior or necessary charges specified in the formula.  It  isrelevant  to add that in dealing with the concept  of  bonusthis Court ruled that bonus is neither a gratuitous  paymentmade  by the employer to his workmen nor can it be  regardedas a deferred wage.  According to this decision, where wagesfall short of the living(1) [1955] S.C.R. 991120944standard and the industry makes profit part of which is	 dueto  the	 contribution of labour, a claim for  bonus  can  belegitimately  made.  However, neither the propriety nor	 theorder  of  priority as between the four	 prior	charges	 andtheir relative importance nor their content was examined  bythis  Court  in	 that  case;  and  though  the	formula	 hassubsequently  been  generally  accepted	 by  this  Court  inseveral	 reported decisions (Baroda Borough Municipality  v.Its Workmen (1), Sree Meenakshi Mills, Ltd. v. Their Workmen(2)  and  The State of Mysore v. The Workers of	 Kolar	GoldMines  (3) ) the question about the adequacy, propriety,  orvalidity of its provisions has not been examined nor has thegeneral	 problem  as  to  whether  the	formula	 needs	 anyvariation,  change or addition been argued  and	 considered.It  is	for the first time since 1950 that, in	the  presentappeals, we are called upon to examine the formula carefullyand  express  our  decision on the merits  of  its  specificprovisions.   As we have already indicated, in dealing	withthe  present dispute the tribunal has held that, in  workingout  the formula, it could relax its provisions even  thoughthe proposed relaxation may mean a material variation of theformula	 itself.  On behalf of the appellant Mr.  Kolah	 hastaken  strong  exception to this approach.   He	 has  arguedthat,  in  the last eight years and more, on the  whole	 theformula	 has  worked  fairly well in the  interest  of	bothcapital and labour, and so the tribunal was not justified indeparting  from	 it  in the  present  case.   This  argumentundoubtedly raises a question of considerable importance.Before examining this argument, however, it is necessary  toconsider  one preliminary point: Was the tribunal  justifiedin holding that the appellant could not be allowed to add toits previous claim for rehabilitation ? The decision of	 thetribunal  on this point seems to indicate that the  tribunalthought that the appellant was estopped from making any suchclaim; and the correctness of this conclusion is  challengedby the appellant.(1)[1957] S.C.R. 33, 39.(2) [1958] S.C.R. 878, 884.(3) [1959] S.C.R. 895.945It  is true that, in the report submitted by  the  appellantbefore	the Tariff Commission in April 1953, it had set	 outthe  details  of  its ten  year	 programme  which  included,besides	  replacement,	rehabilitation,	 modernisation	 andexpansion, mechanisation of quarries as well as constructionand improvement of houses for its labour staff.	 The  reportof the Tariff Commission (p. 30) shows that the cost of	 theprogramme was' estimated at Rs. 18.36 crores, excluding	 thecost  of a new plant at Sindri, or about Rs. 184  lakhs	 perannum.	 Subsequently in January 1954, when  Mr.  Tongaonkargave  evidence in the previous adjudication proceedings,  heproduced  a  statement	(Ex.  U-8) according  to  which	 theappellant's annual requirements for rehabilitation would  beof the order of Rs. 192 or 193 lakhs, whereas in the presentproceedings the said claim is made at Rs. 284 lakhs.  A barestatement  of  these  facts prima facie	 suggests  that	 theappellant's  present  claim  for  rehabilitation  has	beengrowing	 from stage to stage, and in its present form it  isvery  much inflated; and that is what the tribunal has	alsoassumed.   In  our  opinion this assumption  is	 not  whollycorrect.  Mr. Tongaonkar's evidence shows that in the reportof the jobs submitted to the Tariff Commission the appellanthad  not  included  all relevant  items	 of  rehabilitation,replacement  and  modernisation.  The report merely  gave  alist  of  the  jobs  which the	appellant  had	proposed  toundertake  during the ten year period ending July 31,  1962.It  was	 in  no	 sense an  exhaustive  statement  about	 theappellant's requirements in regard to the rehabilitation  ofall  its blocks.  In fact, having regard to the	 nature	 andscope  of  the	enquiry before the  Tariff  Commission,	 thereport	made  by the appellant had to be restricted  to	 theurgent	jobs which it wanted to undertake during the  execu-tion  of  its  ten year programme; and so it  would  not  bereasonable to hold that the figure of annual  rehabilitationexpenses  which can be deduced from the said report has	 anyrelation  to  the  claim  for  rehabilitation  made  by	 theappellant in terms of the working of the formula.Then again the appellant's claim for rehabilitation946in  the	 earlier proceedings has  also	been  satisfactorilyexplained  by Mr. Tongaonkar.  The respondents	have  placedconsiderable   reliance	 on  the  statement  filed  by	 Mr.Tongaonkar  in	the  said  proceedings	(Ex.   U-8).	Thisdocument has been produced by the respondents in support  oftheir  contention that it purports to make a claim  for	 Rs.192  lakhs per year 'for rehabilitation.  That no  doubt  istrue  ;	 but  in terms the document  purports  to  show	 theestimated  expenditure required during the ten	year  periodthere  specified; and as Mr. Tongaonkar has stated, it	doesnot  include a full statement of the claim in regard to	 therehabilitation of all the blocks belonging to the appellant.In  considering the respondents' argument on this point,  itis necessary to bear in mind that in the earlier proceedingsthe  appellant	had filed a separate statement	showing	 theamount	to  which it was entitled by way  of  rehabilitationunder  the formula; this statement was Ex.  C-3 and  it	 hasbeen produced in the present case and exhibited as U-5.	  Itappears that in the earlier proceedings the tribunal did notattach	any  importance to the said document  and  virtuallyignored it because, like the present tribunal, it held	that"  it does not appear to be necessary to plan further  aheadthan  ten years and it is desirable to base calculations  ofrehabilitation	on  realities  "(1).   Even  so	 the  LabourAppellate  Tribunal  found that the  appellant's  contentionthat  its workmen were not entitled to any additional  bonuswas  not well-founded even if its claim	 for  rehabilitationwas  confined  to Rs. 192 or Rs. 193  lakhs.   Besides,	 Mr.Tongaonkar  has stated on oath that Ex.	 U-8 was  not  amongthe  documents originally submitted by the appellant to	 thetribunal in 1954. it was in fact prepared and submitted at alater stage at the instance of the tribunal itself.  It	 is,therefore, clear that Ex.  U-8 was not intended to, and	 didnot  supply,  the  basis of the	 appellant's  claim  in	 theearlier proceedings in accordance with the formula.A study of the items contained in Ex.  U-8 also supports thesame conclusion.  Mr. Tongaonkar has(1)  (1955) 1 L.L.J. 588,592.947stated	that the total amount of the  estimated	 expenditureshown in this document included only a small portion of	 theexpenditure  required for rehabilitation of the	 post-	1944block.	 It is true that Mr. Tongaonkar's statement that  inthe  said  total amount nearly Rs. 50  lakhs  represent	 theamount for replacement or rehabilitation of post-1944  blockis inaccurate.	The Chaibasa Cement Factory and the  SevaliaCement Factory for the rehabilitation of which Rs. 64.98 and85.15  lakhs  have been claimed in Ex. U-8  are	 undoubtedlyparts  of  the post 1944 block and the amounts	claimed	 forthem  are  very	 much  more  than  Rs.	50  lakhs.   It	  isnevertheless  clear  that  'the items in  Ex.	U-8  do	 notinclude a claim for rehabilitation for all the blocks of theappellant, and it is not surprising either, because a  claimfor the rehabilitation of all the blocks had been separatelymade  by the appellant in the earlier proceedings under	 Ex.C-3.   Thus  there can be no doubt that neither	 the  reportsubmitted by the appellant before the Tariff Commission	 northe  estimate  given  by Ex.  U-8  was	prepared  under	 theformula; and so any disparity in the amounts claimed in	 thetwo  earlier  documents	 cannot be  seriously  pressed	intoservice against the appellant when it seeks to make a  claimfor rehabilitation strictly in accordance with the  formula.We  must, therefore, hold that the tribunal was in error  incoming	to  the conclusion that by reason  of  its  previousconduct	 the  appellant could not be allowed  to  place	 itsclaim  for  rehabilitation at a figure higher than  Rs.	 192lakhs in the relevant year.  In this connection it would  bepertinent  to remember that in dealing with  the  employer'sclaim  for  rehabilitation the tribunal is  called  upon  toassess	 respective  values  of	 the  relevant	factors	  onhypothetical  and  empirical considerations, and so  it	 maygenerally  not be useful or wise to take recourse to  strictlegalistic   principles	 like  estoppel	 in  deciding	thisquestion  and  indeed all material questions  in  industrialadjudications.Does  the  formula  need to be revised,	 and  should  it  berevised and reconstructed ? That is the question948which we must now consider.  It appears that some  tribunalshave  taken the view that the rigid working of	the  formulamay  defeat its object of recognising the social justice  oflabour's  claim	 for bonus and so they	have  made  suitableadjustments in its operation.  It is this approach which hasraised the larger issue of principle in the group of appealswhich have been placed for disposal before the	ConstitutionBench.	 So  we	 must examine this  question  in  its  broadaspects	 and if we decide not to change the formula we	muststate  what, in our opinion is the content of the  differentitems  mentioned  in  the formula and  how  they  should  becalculated and mutually adjusted.Let  us	 first	set out the case as it	has  been  made	 forchanging the formula.  It is 'urged that though the  formulapurports  to  recognise the principle of social	 justice  onwhich labour's claim for bonus is based, it does not  accordto  the	 said claim the high priority it  deserves.   Socialjustice	 has been given a place of pride in the preamble  tothe Constitution and it has been enshrined in the  DirectivePrinciples  under Arts. 38 and 43.  Since 1950, ideas  aboutsocial	and  economic  justice	have  made  an	 appreciableprogress  and  they require the readjustment  of  prioritiesprescribed by the formula in favour of the claim for bonus.It   is	 also  contended  that	experience   in	  industrialadjudication during the last eight years and more shows thatemployers  are	becoming increasingly  more  rehabilitation-conscious   and	  their	 appetite  for	the   provision	  ofrehabilitation	is fast growing from year to year.   In	 thepresent case, for instance, though the appellant occupies  adominant  position in its line of trade and though it  makeslarge	profits,  it  has  made	 such  a  tall	 claim	 forrehabilitation that if the said claim is allowed the workingof the formula leaves no available surplus from which  bonuscan  be granted to labour.  The appellant has no doubt	paidbonus for three months and it is unlikely that the appellantwould depart from its practice of paying the said bonus evenin future; but that does not affect the949position  that	in the light of the  appellant's  claim	 forrehabilitation the working of the formula would not  justifythe  grant  of	any bonus to labour.  This  shows  that	 thenotional claim for rehabilitation which an employer can makeunder  the formula tends to be completely divorced from	 thereality or actuality of the need of rehabilitation; and thatneeds to be corrected.Besides,  it  is  said, that the  theory  that	the  tradingprofits	 of the industry must provide for the whole  of	 therehabilitation	expenses  is  not  universall  accepted	  byenlightened and progressive businessmen and economists.	  Inthis connection reliance is placed on the observations of F.R. M. de Paula in his " Principles of Auditing " that "	 theobject	of  depreciation  is  the  replacement	of  originalinvestment capital and that an increase in replacement	costis an important matter and means that additional capital  isrequired in order to maintain the original earning  capacity".  It is also pointed out that the Institute  of  CharteredAccountants  in	 England and Wales, in	its  recommendationsmade  in  1949 under the heading " Rising  price  levels  inrelation  to  accounts	" has pointed out  that	 "  the	 gapbetween historical and replacement costs might be too big tobe bridged by a provision made for replacement spread over aperiod	 of  years  either  by	way  of	 supplementing	 thedepreciation   charges	 or  by	 setting  up  in   lieu	  ofdepreciation  a	 provision for renewals based  on  estimatedreplacement  costs  ".	It is therefore	 suggested  that  inrevising the formula the claims for rehabilitation should befixed at a reasonable amount and industry should be requiredto find the balance from other sources and if necessary fromits share in the available surplus.In  this connection it is pointed out that when	 the  LabourAppellate  Tribunal  evolved  the  formula  it	was  dealingdirectly  with the needs of the textile industry  and  therewas  no dispute that the plant and machinery of the  textileindustry had become old and obsolescent and needed immediatereplacement,   rehabilitation  and  modernisation.   It	  isdoubtful  whether,  in	giving priority	 to  the  claim	 forrehabilitation in the950context of the needs of the textile industry with which	 theappellate  tribunal was concerned, it really  intended	thatrehabilitation	should	be  claimed 'by	 every	industry  ontheoretical considerations whether or not the said claim wasjustified   by	 its   actual	or   practical	 need	 forrehabilitation.In  substance  the argument is that the Full  Bench  of	 theLabour Appellate Tribunal evolved its formula in order	thatlabour	may get a reasonable share in the available  surplusand  may  thereby receive assistance in filling up  the	 gapbetween	 its actual wage and the living wage which it  looksforward	 to receive in due course; and if it is found  that,in working out the items which are treated as prior charges,in  a  majority	 of cases the formula  leaves  no  availablesurplus, then its main object is frustrated and that is	 thejustification	for   revising	it   and   readjusting	 itspriorities.In support of this view reliance has also been placed on therecommendations of the Committee on 'Profit-sharing'.	ThisCommittee   had	 been  appointed  in  1948  to	advise	 theGovernment  of India " on the principles to be followed	 forthe  determination  of (a) fair wages to  labour,  (b)	fairreturn	to capital employed in the industry, (e)  reasonablereserves   for	 the  maintenance  and	expansion   of	 theundertaking, and (d) labour's share of the surplus  profits,calculated   on	 a  sliding  scale  normally  varying	withproduction,  after provision has been made for (b)  and	 (c)above  ".  The Committee viewed its problem from  three	 im-portant	 angles, viz., " profit-sharing as an  incentive  toproduction,   profit-sharing   as  a  method   of   securingindustrial  peace,  and	 profit-sharing as  a  step  in	 theparticipation  of  labour  in management  ".  The  Committeerecognised  that putting back profits into the	industry  isone of the most useful forms of capital investment and	thisshould be encouraged and it recommended that a figure of 20%for  reserves  should  be  generally  aimed  at,  though  itconsidered  that, as a first charge, 10% of the net  profitsshould be compulsorily set aside for reserves, leaving it tothe good sense of the management to allocate the balance  ormore out of their own share of surplus profits.	 In regard951to the labour's share in the surplus profits, the  Committeestated that, having due regard to the conditions  prevailingin  the	 industry  selected for	 an  experiment	 in  profit-sharing,  it had come to the conclusion that labour's  shareshould	be 50% of the surplus profits of  the  undertakings.It  is a matter of common knowledge that so  far  Governmenthave  not  thought it desirable, expedient  or	possible  tolegislate in this matter in the light of the recommendationsmade  by  this	Committee; but it is  suggested	 that  theserecommendations	 afford a rational basis for  reconstructingthe formula.It  may be conceded that there is some force in some of	 thearguments  urged  in support of the plea  that	the  formulashould	be revised and its priorities should  be  readjustedand redefined; but, on the other hand, we cannot ignore	 thefact that on the whole the formula has worked satisfactorilyin  a  large  number of industries  all	 over  the  country.Except	for a few cases, particularly in Bombay, where	someof  the	 tribunals have taken the view that,  in  its  rigidform,  the formula has become unworkable from the  point  ofview  of labour, in a majority of cases industrial  disputesarising	 between  employers and their workmen in  regard  tobonus  have been settled by tribunals on the basis  of	thisformula;  and it would not be unreasonable or inaccurate  tosay  that  by and large labour's claim for  bonus  has	beenfairly	and satisfactorily dealt with.	The main  source  ofcontest	 in  the working of the formula	 centres  round	 theindustry's  claim  for	rehabilitation;	 but,  as  we  shallpresently point out, if this claim is carefully	 scrutinisedand examined in the light of evidence which the employer hasto  produce in support of his claim, even the settlement  ofthis  item would, as it is intended to, invest the  tribunalwith  sufficient  discretion  to make  the  working  of	 theformula elastic enough to meet its two-fold object of  doingjustice both to industry and labour.It  is	true that in the working of  the  formula  employerssometimes make an attempt to add items to the list of  priorclaims.	 In The State of Mysore v. The121952workers	 of Kolar Gold Mines (1), it was urged	before	thisCourt by the industry that it was a wasting industry and  assuch  it needed special consideration.	The  contention	 wasthat  for  the prosperity and longevity of  the	 industry  aspecial	 provision for the prospecting of new ore has to  bemade  and that should be added as an additional item in	 thelist of prior charges.	This argument was, however, rejectedand  it was held that the special features of  the  industrywould be taken into account in determining the amount  whichcould  be  reasonably claimed  under  rehabilitation.	Thisdecision  shows the reluctance of this court to vary or	 addto the formula which oil the whole has so far worked  fairlysatisfactorily.The theory that the whole of the rehabilitation charges neednot come out of the trading profits of the industry does notappear	to be generally accepted.  As has been	observed  byPaula himself: " In the past the accepted principle has beenthat  the main object of providing for the  depreciation  ofwasting assets is to recoup the original capital invested inthe purchase of such assets.  As part of the capital of	 theconcern	 has been invested in the purchase of these  assets,therefore,  when  their working life comes to  an  end,	 theearning	 capacity  of these assets ceases.  Thus  they	willbecome	valueless for the purposes of the business, and	 theoriginal  capital sunk in their acquisition, less any  scrapvalue,	will  have been lost.  Hence, in order to  keep	 theoriginal  capital of a business intact, if any part  thereofis invested in the purchase of' wasting assets, revenue mustbe held back by means of depreciation charges to profit	 andloss account, in order to replace the capital that is  beinglost by reason of the fact that it is represented by  assetsthat  are  being  consumed or exhausted	 in  the  course  oftrading	 or seeking to earn income It is also stated by	 thesame  author  that " in all cases where One  of	 the  directcauses	of  earning revenue is gradually  to  consume  fixedassets	of wasting nature, the depreciation of	such  assetsshould be provided for out of revenue " (3).  It is true(1)  [1959] S C.R. 895.(2)  F.R.M.  de Paula's	 Principles of Auditing',  1957,  P.136.(3)  Ibid, p. 138.953that  the  author  recognises  that  "	owing  to  the	veryconsiderable   increase	 in  the  price	 level	 since	 thetermination  of	 the 1939-45 war, industry  is	finding	 itsoriginal money capital insufficient for its needs.  Thus thecost  of replacement of fixed assets has  greatly  increasedand  in	 addition, further working capital is  required	  tofinance	 a  given volume of  production.   Many	 economists,industrialists,	 and  accountants  contend  that   provisionshould	be made, in arriving at profits, for this  increasedcapital	 requirement ". Having noticed this view the  authoradds  that  " at the time of writing this  matter  is  stillbeing debated and final decisions have not yet been  reached",  and he concludes that " until a final solution  of	thiscomplex	 problem is reached it would be inadvisable for	 theauditor to act on any principle other than that	 recommendedby the Institute "(1); and that principle appears to be thatdepreciation   should  be  provided  for  out  of   revenue.Besides,  it  must be borne in mind that, in  adjusting	 theclaims	of industry and labour to share in the profits on  anotional basis, it would be difficult to repel the claim  ofthe  industry  that  a	provision should  be  made  for	 therehabilitation	of its plant and machinery from the  tradingprofits.   On  principle the guaranteed continuance  of	 theindustry  is as much for the benefit of the employer as	 forthat  of  labour; and so reasonable provision made  in	thatbehalf must be regarded as justified.The recommendations made by the Committee on Profit-sharing'cannot be of much assistance because they raise questions ofpolicy	 and   principle   which   Legislature	 can	moreappropriately  consider.  If the Legislature feels that	 theclaims for social and economic justice made by labour shouldbe redefined on a clearer basis it can step in and legislatein  that  behalf.   It	may also be  possible  to  have	 thequestion   comprehensively  considered	by  a	high-poweredcommission  which may be asked to examine the pros and	consof  the problem in all its aspects by taking  evidence	fromall industries and all bodies of workmen.  The plea for	 therevision of the formula raises an issue(1)F.R.M.  de Paula's  Principles of Auditing',	 1957,	P-80.954which affects all industries; and before any change is	madein  it,	 all industries and their workmen would have  to  beheard  and their pleas carefully considered.  It is  obviousthat  while  dealing with the present group  of	 appeals  itwould be difficult, unreasonable and inexpedient to  attemptsuch  a task.  That is why we think that labour's claim	 forbonus  should  be decided by tribunals on the basis  of	 theformula without attempting to revise it.Whilst	we are not prepared to accede to the  argument	thatthe formula should be revised, we wish to emphasise that theformula	 is elastic enough to meet reasonably the claims  ofthe  industry and labour for fairplay and justice.   In	 itsbroad features it recognises the claims of the industry	 andtabulates  them under different items as prior charges,	 andthen  provides	for the distribution  of  available  surplusbetween the labour, the industry and the shareholders.	 Theitems specified in the formula have to be worked out notion-ally  on theoretical grounds; in determining the content  ofeach  one  of  the  items  it  is  therefore  essential	  toscrutinise and weigh carefully all the relevant and materialfacts.	  If  the  content  of	each  item   is	  determinedobjectively in the light of all relevant and material facts,the  tribunals	would  generally find it  possible  to	makereasonable adjustments between the rival claims and  providefor  a fair distribution of the available surplus.  In	thissense  it is necessary to treat the formula as	elastic	 andnot rigid in working out detailed calculations under it.We  have no doubt that if the industry and labour  genuinelydesire	to  settle  the disputes as  to	 bonus	without	 theintervention  of  the conciliator or  the  adjudicator,	 theformula	  would	 help  them  to	 arrive	 at   a	  reasonablesettlement.   If  the  employer	 does  not  make  an  undulyinflated  claim under the items which  safeguard  industry'sinterests, and if workmen do not make an exaggerated  demandfor bonus, it would normally not be beyond the	co-operativeeffort of the parties to arrive at a reasonable figure whichshould be paid to labour by way of bonus from year to  year.It is unnecessary to emphasise that industrial disputes955settled	 amicably  are in the interest of both	capital	 andlabour.	  Amicable  settlements of such	 disputes  lead	 to'peace,	harmony and co-operation between capital and  labourand that invariably helps more production which is a  matterof great national importance at present.But  unfortunately,  in many cases, both  the  industry	 andlabour	do  not	 appear to be too keen	on  settling'  thesedisputes  amicably,  with the result that claims  for  bonusgive  rise  to disputes year after year and  inevitably	 themachinery  under  the  Industrial Disputes  Act	 is  set  inmotion.	  Conciliation	efforts	 are made but  they  do	 notsucceed;  then reference is made under s. 10 of the Act	 andthe  dispute  is taken before the tribunal; since  both	 theparties	 are  not in a mood to co-operate with	each  other,over-statements are made on both sides, allegations are	 metby  counter-allegations and they are sought to be  supportedby evidence.  In such a case the tribunals must examine	 therival contentions and scrutinise the evidence adduced by theparties	 objectively  and in a judicial manner.	  If  properevidence  is led and it is judicially weighed, the  tribunalwould be able to work the formula in a reasonable manner andarrive	 at  a	result	which  would  be  substantially	  inconformity  with the object underlying the formula.   It  isobvious that, in making the relevant calculations under	 theitems  of  prior  charges  specified  in  the  formula,	 thetribunals should have a clear idea as to the content of eachone  of	 the said prior charges; and so it is  necessary  toexamine carefully this aspect of the matter.We have already noticed that the formula for awarding  bonusto workmen is based on two considerations; first that labouris entitled to claim a share in the' trading profits of	 theindustry  because it has partially contributed to the  same;and  second  that labour is entitled to claim that  the	 gapbetween	 its actual wage and the living wage  should  withinreasonable  limits  be filled up.  The concept	of  labour'scontribution to the profits of the industry has reference tothe contribution made by the employer and the workmen  takentogether as a class; and so it would956     not be relevant to, inquire which sectionof  labourhas  contributed  to what share	 of the profits.The  boardidea underlying this concept is that the capital invested bythe  employer  and  labour contributed	by  workmen  jointlyproduce	  the  profits	of  an	industry.  This	   does	  notnecessarily mean that, in theindustry  in question,  labourmust  actually manufacture or produce goods, though, in	 thecase of manufacture and,production of goods contribution  oflabour.	 is  patent  and obvious.  In the  Burma  Shell	 OilStorage	 and  Distributing  Co.,  of  India  Pd.  v.  Their,Workmen(1)  the	 Labour	 Appellate  Tribunal  rejected	 theemployers'  claim that, since workmen employed by  them	 didnot  manufacture  or produce any goods but  merely  assistedthem in the distribution Of oil, they were not. entitled  toclaim  any bonus under the formula.  It is wrong to  say  ",observed  the labour Appellate, Tribunal, that	because	 theemployees of these oil companies merely market the oil	theyhave not earned the right to any bonus". It was also Pointedout  that  the	workmen had to perform	:duties	 of  variousintensity for marketing an article of public. utility,.	 andin  that sense they contribute to, production  according  tothe concept of economists". So were the clerks held entitledto  bonus for,their duties in the, general business  of	 theconcern though, they had nothing to do with the physical actof  marketing the commodity it was also emphasised that	 theother  object of granting the bonus was to help the  workmento fill up the gap between their actual wages and the livingwage.	Thus  in dealing with the claim for  bonus  made  byworkmen	 the  two-fold basis of the formula must  always  bekept in mind.The  working of the formula begins with the figure of  grossprofits	 taken	from the profit and loss account  which	 arearrived at after,payment of wages and dearness allowance  tothe employees and other items of expenditure.  As a  generalrule  the  amount  of gross  profits  thus  ascertained	 is.accepted without submitting the statement of the' profit andloss 'account to a close scrutiny.  If, however, it  appearsthat(1)(1953) 11, L.L.J. 246.957entries have, been made on the debit side, deliberately	 andmala fide to reduce the amount of gross profits, it would beopen  to the tribunal to examine the question and if  it  issatisfied that the impugned entries have been made mala fideit may disallow them.  This principle has been recognised bythe   Labour  Appellate	 Tribunal  when	 it  observed,	 forinstance, in M/s.  J. K. Cotton Manufacturers Ltd.,   Kanpurv.  Their Workmen (1) that if managing	agents	deliberatelydivert profits to the selling, agents with a view to deprivelabour	of  their bonus and pay commission to  the  selling.agents at high rates then certainly the matter must be takeninto consideration in the determination of available surplusbalance " It would likewise be open to the parties to  claimthe exclusion of items either on the credit or on the  debitside  on  the  ground that the impugned	 items	are.  whollyextraneous and entirely unrelated to the trading profits  ofthe  year.   In considering such a plea	 the  tribunal	mustresist	the temptation of dissecting the  balance-sheet	 toominutely  or of attempting to reconstruct it in any  manner.It  is	only glaring cases, where the impugned item  may  beplently	 and  obviously	 extraneous  that  a  plea  for	 itsexclusion  should be entertained.  Where the employer  makesprofits in the course of carrying on his trade or  business,it would be unreasonable to inquire whether each one of the,items of the said profit is related to the contribution madeby  labour.   In  such matters, the tribunal  must  take  anoverall,  practical  and commonsense view.  Thus  it  ma  bestated	that  as a rule the gross profits appearing  at	 thefoot of the statement of the profit, and loss account shouldbe taken a,% the basic figure while working out the formula.In,  working out the formula the other important fact  whichshould not be ignored is, that the formula proceed's to dealwith  the  labour's claim for bonus on the  basis  that	 therelevant  year	for  which  bonus  is  claimed	is  a  self-sufficient  unit and the appropriate accounts  have, to.  bemade  on  the notional basis in respect of the said,  It  issubstantially because(1)[1954]  L.A.C.  716, 745. (Also vide [1952]	L.A.C.	420,421.)958of this basic assumption that if an employer receives duringthe  bonus year a refund with respect to the excess  profitstax  paid by him in a previous year the amount of refund  isnot  included  on  the credit side.  In	 Model	Mills  etc.'Textile	 Mills, Nagpur v. The Rashtriya Mill  Mazdoor  Sangh(1) the Labour Appellate Tribunal observed that according tothe.  formula, the income-tax is to be deducted as  a  priorcharge	on trading results of the year just as much  as	 thebonus  is to be ascertained upon the trading results of	 theyear.  The concession made by the income-tax authorities  inmaking	a refund of the excess profits tax already  paid  bythe employer is intended to aid a concern on account of pastlosses	and so it has nothing to do with the  formula.	 Thesame principle governs cases where owing to a loss  incurredin  the previous year or years the employer is	entitled  toclaim  allowance  for  adjustment under s.  24	(2)  of	 theIncome-tax Act during the bonus year; and so it is held thatthe  allowance	for  adjustment which  the  employer  claimscannot	be taken into account in determining the  amount  ofincome-tax  payable on the profits of the bonus	 year  underthe  formula.	In Bennett Coleman and co.,  Ltd.  v.  TheirWorkmen	 (2)  the  Labour Appellate  Tribunal  rejected	 thecontention  raised by labour that since under s. 24 (2)	 theemployer  would	 not be liable to pay tax during  the  bonusyear  no  provision  for payment of tax should	be  made  inworking	 out  the formula.  The	 Labour	 Appellate  Tribunalpointed out that the fact that the employer was not requiredto  pay	 tax  during the bonus year was the  result  of	 theadjustment  of the previous year's  unabsorbed	depreciationand  losses against current year's profit, and that  had  norelevance  in  determining the available  surplus  from	 thetrading	 profits of the bonus year.  The same view has	beentaken  in  several  other  decisions  to  which	 the  LabourAppellate Tribunal has referred.  In our opinion, once it isrealised  that in working out the formula the bonus year  istaken as a unit self-sufficient by itself, the decisions  ofthe Labour Appellate Tribunal in regard(1) (1955) I  J. 534, 540.(2) (1955)  I J. 60.959to  the refund of excess profits tax and the  adjustment  ofthe  previous  year's depreciation and	losses	against	 thebonus year's profits must be treated as logical and sound.Having	ascertained the amount of gross profits,  the  firstitem of deduction relates to depreciation.  The propriety ofthis   deduction  was  not  questioned	before	the   LabourAppellate  Tribunal  which  evolved  the  formula;  but	 thecontent	 of  the  item of depreciation became  a  matter  ofcontroversy subsequent to 1950.	 After 1948, s. 10 (2)	(vi)of   the  Income-tax  Act  has	provided  for  initial	 andadditional  depreciation besides the statutory	depreciationwhich was already admissible.  In other words,	depreciationallowed under the Income-tax Act now consists of what may becalled the statutory normal depreciation calculated under r.8   as	 well  as  initial   depreciation   and	  additionaldepreciation.	The allowance of these depreciations  is  anexception  to  the general rule that the income	 has  to  betaxed  without reference to the diminution in the  value  ofthe capital.  Under the amended provision of s. 10 (2)	(vi)of the Income-tax Act the employers began to claim that fromthe gross profits all the depreciations admissible under theIncome-tax Act should be debited; and this claim was  upheldby some tribunals and rejected by others.  This conflict  ofdecisions  led	to  confusion; and so a Full  Bench  of	 theLabour Appellate Tribunal was constituted to decide this andother  points in the case of the U. P. Electric Supply	Co.,Ltd.,	etc.   Electricity  Supply  Undertakings  v.   TheirWorkmen(1).   The  Full Bench held that "  the	depreciationwhich  should be deducted from the gross profits in  workingthe  formula  is  annual depreciation  allowable  under	 theprovisions  of	the Income-tax Act  including  the  multipleshift	depreciation;	it  also  held	that   the   initialdepreciation  and  additional depreciation which  were	alsoallowed	 under the Income-tax Act are abnormal additions  tothe  income-tax	 depreciation designed	to  meet  particularcontingencies and for a limited period;(1) (1955) II  J. 431.122960and  so it would not be fair to the workmen that  these	 twodepreciations  should be rated as prior charges	 before	 theavailable  surplus is ascertained ". Apparently	 some  doubtarose  as to what exactly was allowed to be  deducted  underthis Full Bench decision; and two of the members of the FullBench  took  occasion  to  clarify  the	 position  in  SuratElectricity Co.'s Staff Union v. Surat Electricity Co., Ltd.(1).  This decision shows that what the Full Bench  intendedto treat as depreciation for the purpose of the formula	 wasa notional amount of normal depreciation; in order to  avoidany future doubt or confusion, the judgment in the case	 hasset   out   the	 manner	 in  which  this   notional   normaldepreciation has to be worked out.  Since this decision	 waspronounced  it is the notional normal depreciation  that  isdeducted from the gross profits in working the formula.	  Itseems to us that the view taken by the Full Bench is  whollyconsistent  with the basic idea of social justice  on  whichthe original formula is founded.  The relevant provisions ofthe  Income-tax Act allowing further depreciation are  basedon  considerations which have no relevance to  the  originalformula;  indeed, as the Full Bench has pointed out, if	 thesaid  two items of depreciations are allowed to be  deductedfrom  the  gross  profits it would in a	 majority  of  casesdefeat	 the  object  of  the  formula	itself.	  We   wouldaccordingly  hold  that	 the depreciation which	 has  to  bededucted  from	the  gross profits should  be  the  notionalnormal	depreciation  as  explained in	the  case  of  SuratElectric Co., Ltd. (1).The  balance obtained after deducting depreciation from	 thegross  profits	is  then  taken	 as  the  amount  on   whichcalculations  have to be made about the	 income-tax  payablefor  the bonus year.  This item gives rise to a	 controversybetween the parties.  It is urged for the employers that  indetermining the amount payable by way of income-tax on	thisbalance	 the  tribunal should not  take	 into  considerationallowances  which are made under the relevant provisions  ofthe  Income-tax Act.  There is no doubt that in	 taxing	 theemployer for the bonus year the Income-tax Act would(1)(1957) II L. L. J. 648.	    961make allowance not only for the normal depreciation but alsofor  the  initial  and	additional  depreciations;  but	 theargument  is  that  the	 income-tax  should  be	  determinednationally  without  reference to the said  allowances.	  Insupport of this argument it is further urged that though theemployer may obtain credit for the two further depreciationsfor  some  years, later on the said allowances will  not  bemade and his liability' to pay tax would be  correspondinglyincreased.   It is but fair, so the argument runs, that	 theemployer  should be allowed to create a fund  of  income-taxreserve	 from  which  he  would be  able  to  bear  his	 taxliability in future as and when it is bound to increase.On the other hand it is contended on behalf of workmen	thatwhile  determining the amount of tax payable for  the  bonusyear the tribunal cannot ignore the concession given to	 theemployer  by the Income-tax Act by making the  allowance  oftwo further depreciations.  What the employer claims is	 notthe  amount  of tax payable during the bonus year  but	muchmore  in  addition in order to build up a reserve  and	thisnotion	of  building up a tax reserve  for  meeting  future,though	certain, increased tax liability is foreign  to	 thebasic  idea of the formula.  For making	 calculations  underthe formula the bonus year is taken as a unit and all  itemsspecified in the formula should be worked out on that basis.That is why the refund of the excess profits tax received inthe bonus year is excluded from consideration and the  rightof  the	 employer to adjust his previous year's	 losses	 anddepreciation  against the trading profits of the bonus	yearis likewise ignored.  So too the fact that the employer	 mayhave to pay increased taxes in future years must be  treatedas irrelevant.	That in brief is the case for workmen.In  our opinion, having regard to the basis of	the  formulaand  the manner in which the other items of the formula	 arerequired  to  be worked out, it would not be  reasonable  toallow the employer to claim under the item of income-tax  anadditional   amount   is   respect  of	 the   two   furtherdepreciations  which are expressly allowed to him  under  s.10(2)(vi) of the Income-tax962Act.  It is clear that the amount determined under this itemwould  not  represent the actual tax  which  the  income-taxdepartment will recover from the employer.  In that sense itwould always be a notional amount ; but in calculating	eventhis notional amount it would be unfair and unjust to ignorethe  concessions  allowed to the employer by  s.  10(2)(vi).The creation of a fund of income-tax reserve may conceivablylead to unnecessary complications.  Besides, if on principlethe further depreciations allowed by the Income-tax Act	 aretreated	 as  inadmissible  under  the  formula	and  so	 areexcluded  from	consideration,	it  would  be  substantiallyinconsistent with the object of such exclusion to allow	 theemployer to claim tax in respect of the said amounts of	 thetwo  depreciations.  It is clear that even if the amount  ofincome-tax  is	determined  after taking  into	account	 theconcession  given to the employer by s. 10(2)(vi)  it  wouldwork no hardship to the employer, for the simple reason thatin future years when these concessions cease to be operativeand his liability to pay the tax correspondingly  increases,he would be entitled to claim the amount of income-tax whichwould  then be payable by him.	This method  of	 calculatingincome	tax  is	 thus fair to both the parties	and  it	 hasbesides	 the  merit  of	 being	consistent  with  the  basiccharacter  of  the formula.  It would be  relevant  in	thisconnection   to	 remember  that,  though  in  most  of	 theindustries  workmen  continue to be employed  from  year  toyear, nationally and on principle, the claim for bonus for aparticular year is made on behalf of workmen employed duringthe said year; and in that sense, the relevant	calculationshave to be made with the bonus year as a unit.	That is	 whyconsiderations	of future tax liability of the employer	 areforeign	 to  the calculation under the formula.	  We  would,therefore,  bold  that	in calculating	the  amount  of	 taxpayable	 for  the bonus year the tribunals should  not	takeinto account the concessions given by the Income-tax Act  tothe employers under the two more depreciations allowed unders.   10(2)(vi) of the Income-tax Act.This point has been  considered by this Court in963Sree  Meenakshi Mills, Ltd. v. Their Workmen (1)  where	 hasupheld the view taken by the Full Bench the Labour AppellateTribunal  in  the case of the U. Electric Co.,	Ltd.,  etc.,Electricity Supply Undertakings (2) and has directed that indetermining  amount of income-tax payable during  the  bonusyea the further depreciations permissible under the  income-tax Act should be taken into account.  We would only like toadd  that in that case this Court had  occasion to say	whatexactly the normal depreciation meant; but it is clear	thatthe  normal depreciation mentioned in the judgment  was	 notintended  to  mean anything other than the  notional  normaldepreciation  as explained by the Labour Appellate  Tribunalin the case of the Surat Electric Co., Ltd. (3 ). The amountincome-tax thus determined has then to be deduct( as a priorcharge.The  next step in the working of the formula related to	 thededuction of an appropriate amount in respect of the  returnon  paid-up  capital as well as working	 capital.   We	havealready noticed that the formula provides generally for	 thepayment	 of interest at 69 per annum on the paid-up  capitaland  at 2% on worldling capital.  Subsequent decisions	showthat  the  tribunals  do  not  regard  the  said  rates	  asinflexible and they have suitably modified them in the lightof  the relevant circumstances in each case.  We think	thatthis  is a correct approach and that it is necessary to	 fixthe  rates of interest on the two items of  paid-up  capitaland  working capital according to the circumstances of	eachcase.	In this connection it may be added  that  ordinarilyindustrial  tribunals awards interest at the rate of 6%	 perannum on paid-up capital.In Workmen of Assam Co., Ltd. v. Assam Co., Ltd. this  Courtheld  that interest allowed by the tribunal a 7% on  paid-upcapital	 and confirmed by the Labour Appellate Tribunal	 wasjustified  because " an industry connected with	 agriculturelike  the tea industry is exposed to greater risks than	 anyother industry such(1)  [1958] S.C.R. 878.(3)  (1957) 11 L.L.J. 648.(2)  (1955) II L.L.J.- 431.(4)  [1959] S.C.R. 327]964weather,  pests in the plants and gradual  deterioration  ofthe soil ". On the other hand, in Ruston and ornsby  (India)Ltd.  v.  Their Workmen (1) the	 Labour	 appellate  Tribunalallowed	 only  4%  return  on the  art	of  paid-up  capitalrepresented  by	 bonus	shares for the year  in	 which	suchshares	were issued and ,)served that ,for subsequent  yearsno   distinction  between  it  and  other  paid-up   capitalrepresented  by paid-up shares should be made ".  Similarly,in regard  reserves or depreciation used as working  capitalinterest  has been allowed either at 4% or at 3% or ,Ten  at2%  according  to the relevant circumstances.  in  the	MillOwners	Association,  Bombay v. The Rashtriya  Mill  MazdoorSangh (2) the Labour Appellate Tribunal has observed that  "as  we	have said before, there is no fixed rule as  to	 therates of such return (on capital) and each case must  dependon its individual acts.	 We have in appropriate cases  givenas  high  as % but in case of the mills the Full  Bench	 hasconsidered that the equivalent of 2% would be reasonable  ndwe propose to retain it at that level for the present ".  InTea  and  Coffee  Workers  Union  v.  Brooke  Bond   (India)(Private) Ltd. (3) the Industrial Tribunal as considered theprevious decisions on the question of the return on  workingcapital and held that, in the case before it, it would be anadequate  return  on the working capital if 3%	interest  isallowed	 because there were no special reasons existing	 forallowing a higher ate.In dealing with this aspect of the matter it is relevant  topoint  out  that no distinction has been made  )y  tribunalsbetween	 reserves used as working capital  and	depreciationfund similarly used.  In the Mill Owners Association, Bombayv.  The	 Rashtriya Mill Mazdoor Sangh (2)  (page  523)	whenlabour objected to the depreciation fund earning any  returneven  if  it was utilised in or about the  business  of	 theyear, the labour Appellate Tribunal overruled the  objectionand  observed that " no essential difference could  be	madebetween the depreciation fund and any other(1) (1955) 1 L.L.J. 73.	    (2) (1952) 1 L.L.J. 518. 522.(3)(1958) 1 L.L.J. 645.965fund belonging to the company which could be invested so  asto  earn a return ". It is thus clear that what is  materialis not the origin of the fund.	It is the fact that the fundin the hands of the concern has been used as working capitalthat justifies the claim for art adequate return on it.	  Wethink it is commonsense that if the concern utilises  liquidfunds available in its hands for the purpose of meeting	 itsworking expenses rather than borrow the necessary amounts itis  entitled  to claim some reasonable return on  the  fundsthus used.  It is of course necessary that the employer mustshow that the amount under the depreciation fund was in factavailable  and	that it has actually been  used	 as  workingcapital	 during	 the relevant year.  What return  should  beallowed on such funds must inevitably be a question of	factto be decided by the tribunal in its discretion in each casein  the light of the relevant circumstances.  It would	thusbe  noticed  that in working out these two items  under	 theformula	 there is no fixed or rigid rule about the  rate  ofinterest which can be claimed and awarded. It is also  clearthat if any fund is used by the employer for the purpose  ofexpanding  his	business  he is not entitled  to  claim	 anyreturn	on such fund under those items.	 In the case of	 theU.  P.	Electric Supply Co., Ltd. etc.	 Electricity  SupplyUndertakings  (1)  the Full Bench of  the  Labour  AppellateTribunal  held that " considering all the factors  presentedto them they did not think that a case had been made out forgiving a special prior charge in the shape of return on	 thereserves   utilised  for  expansion  ".	 When  the   amountsawardable  to  the  employer  under  these  two	 items	 aredetermined  they have to be treated as prior charges in	 thecalculation of available surplus under the formula.The original formula referred to replacement, rehabilitationand  modernisation of the plant and machinery.	 Soon  afterthe  formula was evolved a dispute arose as to	whether	 theindustry  was  entitled	 to  claim  rehabilitation  for	 itsbuildings  as  well  and  it was held that  "  a  claim	 forrehabilitation for buildings had to(1)  (1955) II L.L.J. 431.966be  treated  as a prior charge just like the claim  for	 therehabilitation of plant and machinery " (1). :This  positionis not disputed before us, and we think rightly.That  takes us to the item of rehabilitation and it is	thisitem which poses a very difficult problem.  We have  alreadynoticed that the object of providing depreciation of wastingassets	in commercial accounting is to recoup  the  originalcapital	 invested  in the purchase of such assets;  but	 theamount	of depreciation which is allowed under	the  formulacan hardly cover the probable cost of replacement.  That  iswhy  the  formula has recognised the  industry's  claim	 forrehabilitation	in addition to the admissible  depreciation.Since  the Second World War prices of industrial  plant	 andmachinery  have registered a continuous upward rise and	 itsinevitable consequence has been a proportionate rise in	 theclaim  for  rehabilitation.  In considering  the  claim	 forrehabilitation	it is first necessary to divide	 the  blocksinto  plant and machinery on the one hand and  other  assetslike buildings, roads, railway-sidings, etc., on the  other.Then the cost of these separate blocks has to be ascertainedand  their probable future life has to be  estimated.	Oncethis  estimate	is made it becomes  possible  to  anticipateapproximately  the  year when the plant or  machinery  wouldneed  replacement;  and	 it is the probable  price  of	suchreplacement  on	 a future date that ultimately	decides	 theamount	to  which  the	employer  is  entitled	by  way	  ofreplacement cost.  This problem can be considered item	wisewhere the industry does not own too many factories and	itemwise  study  of	 the  plant  and  machinery  is	  reasonablypossible; but if the industry owns several factories and thenumber	of  plants and machines is very large  it  would  bedifficult  to  make a study of the replacement	costs  item-wise, and in such a case the study has to be blockwise.	  Ineither	case  what  the	 tribunal has  to  estimate  is	 theprobable  cost of replacement of plant and machinery at	 thetime  when such replacement would become due.  It  would  beclear  that the decision of this question  would  inevitablydepend upon several uncertain(11) (1952) 1 L.L.J. 518, 522.967factors.  The estimate about the probable life of the  plantand  machinery	is itself to some extent a matter  of  guesswork and any anticipation, however intelligently made, aboutthe  probable trend of prices during the intervening  periodwould  be  nothing  but	 a  guess.   That  is  how,  in	 thedetermination  of this problem, several	 imponderables	facethe tribunals.One  of	 the  points which raises  a  controversy  in  this'connection  is:	 What level of prices  should  the  tribunalconsider in making its calculations about the probable	costof  replacement	 ? Would it be the  price  level  prevailingduring	the bonus year or that prevailing at the  time	whenthe tribunal holds its enquiry ?  Prima facie it may  appearthat it is the price level prevailing in the bonus year thatshould	be treated as relevant; but if the relevance of	 theevidence about the price level is limited only to the  bonusyear,  it  may	hinder rather than help	 the  process  of  asatisfactory   determination   of  the	probable   cost	  ofreplacement.   What  the tribunal has to do  in	 determiningsuch cost is to project the price level into the future	 andthis  can  be more satisfactorily done if  the	price  levelwhich has to be projected into the future is determined	 notonly in the light of the prices prevailing during the  bonusyear  but also in the light of subsequent price levels.	  Itseems to us that in order to enable the tribunal to make  anestimate in this matter as near actualities or realities  aspossible  it is necessary that the tribunal should be  givenfull  discretion  to admit all relevant evidence  about	 thetrend  in  price levels.  The price level during  the  bonusyear would no doubt be admissible; but that alone should notbe taken as the basis for decision.  That is the view  whichthe  tribunals have taken in a majority of cases in  dealingwith the question of rehabilitation and we do not think thatthere is any justification for disturbing the usual practicein that behalf.The problem of determining the probable cost of	 replacementitself is very difficult; but the difficulty is immeasurablyincreased   when  it  is  remembered  that  the	 claim	 forrehabilitation covers not only cases of123968replacement  pure  and	simple	but  of	 rehabilitation	 andmodernisation.	 In  the context rehabilitation	 is  distin-guished	 from  ordinary repairs which go  into	the  workingexpenses  of  the industry.  It is also	 distinguished	fromreplacement.  It is quite conceivable that certain parts  ofmachines  which constitute a block may	need  rehabilitationthough the block itself can carry on for a number of  years;and this process of rehabilitation is in a sense a continualprocess.   Unlike  replacement, its date  cannot  always  befixed or anticipated.  So with modernisation; and all  thesethree  items are included in the claim	for  rehabilitation.That  is  why we think it is necessary	that  the  tribunalsshould	exercise their discretion in admitting all  relevantevidence  which	 would enable them to determine	 this  vexedquestion satisfactorily.At  this  stage it is relevant to remember  that  the  claimunder  this item is confined to rehabilitation,	 replacementand  modernisation.  It is common ground that  expansion  ofthe plant and machinery is not included in this item; but inseveral	 cases	it  is	not  easy  to  distinguish   betweenmodernisation of the plant and machinery and its  expansion.It  is urged that an expert can, if he so chooses,  make  anattempt to include expansion within what he may describe  asmodernisation by clever use of technical words and details,-and that it is precisely this aspect of the matter which hasto  be	carefully examined by the  tribunal.   The  industrysometimes claims that a plant may become obsolescent becauseit has become out of date and has to be substituted by a newmodern	plant.	Is the introduction of the new modern  plantin  such circumstances an item of expansion or mere  modern-isation	 ?  It is difficult to lay down	 any  general  testswhich  would  govern the decision of this question.   If  itappears fairly on the evidence that the introduction of	 themodern plant or machine is in substance an item of expansionof the industry, expenses incurred in that behalf have to beexcluded.   On	the  other  hand, if  the  employer  had  tointroduce  the new plant essentially because the use of	 theold  plant though capable of giving  service-was  uneconomicand other-969wise wholly inexpedient, it may be a case of  modernisation.Similarly,  if	by  the introduction of a  modern  plant  ormachine	  the  production  capacity  of	 the  industry	 hasappreciably increased, it would be relevant for the tribunalto  consider  in  an appropriate case whether  it  would  bepossible  to  apportion expenses on the basis that it  is  acase  of partial modernisation and partial  expansion.	 If,however,  the increased production is not of  a	 significantorder  it  may be regarded as incidental to  replacement  ormodernisation  and  the question of  apportionment  may	 notarise.	 We  have set out these considerations in  order  toemphasise  the	fact  that in dealing with  the	 problem  ofrehabilitation	the  tribunal  must  carefully	examine	 theevidence  and  consider	 the employer's	 claim	in  all	 itsaspects	 before	 determining  the  amount  which  should  beallowed	 by way of rehabilitation as a prior charge  in	 therelevant year.The  decision  on  the	question of  the  probable  cost  ofrehabilitation	is  always reached by  adopting	 a  suitablemultiplier.   This multiplier is based on the ratio  betweenthe  cost price of the plant and machinery and the  probableprice  which  may have to be paid  for	its  rehabilitation,replacement  or	 modernisation.	  Since	 there	has  been  acontinuous  rise  in  the prices  of  industrial  plant	 andmachinery the older the plant which needs rehabilitation thehigher	is  the multiplier.  That is why there is  always  acompetition  between  industry and workmen  on	this  point.Industry  is  sometimes tempted to keep its  old  pre-	1939block  alive with a view to claim a higher multiplier  whichgives  it  a larger amount  of	rehabilitation	expenditure;whereas	 workmen urge that the old pre-1939 block  has	beennominally  kept alive as a device and so press for  a  lowermultiplier which would reduce the claim for  rehabilitation.Once  a proper multiplier is adopted in respect of each	 oneof  the	 blocks the first step in determining  the  probablecost of rehabilitation can be easily taken.  It then becomesa matter of mere arithmetical calculation.At  this  stage	 the divisor steps  in.	  The  total  amountrequired for rehabilitation which is determined by the970application  of	 a suitable multiplier in respect.  of	eachblock has to be divided by a suitable divisor in respect  ofeach  block in order to ascertain the annual requirement  ofthe  employer in that behalf year by year.  In the  case  ofthe  divisor the employer seeks for a lower divisor  whereasworkmen	 claim a higher divisor and this contest has  to  bedecided by the tribunal by reaching a fair conclusion on theevidence  before  it about the probable future life  of	 theblock  in  question.   It would thus  be  noticed  that	 theadoption  of a suitable multiplier and divisor plays a	veryimportant  part in the decision of the vexed question  aboutthe employer's rehabilitation claim.Before actually awarding an appropriate amount in respect ofrehabilitation for the bonus year certain deductions have tobe  made.   The first deduction is made on  account  of	 thebreakdown value of the plant and machinery which is  usuallycalculated at the rate of 5% of the cost price of the  blockin  question.	Then  the depreciation	and  general  liquidreserves  available  to	 the  employer	are  deducted.	 Thereserves  which have already been reasonably  earmarked	 forspecific  purposes of the industry are, however,  not  takeninto   account	in  this  connection.	Last  of   all	 therehabilitation	amount	which may have been allowed  to	 theemployer in previous years would also have to be deducted ifit appears that the amount was available at the time when itwas  awarded in the past and that it had not been  used	 forrehabilitation	purposes  in the meanwhile.  These  are	 thebroad  features	 of  the steps which have  to  be  taken  indeciding  the employer's claim for rehabilitation under	 theworking of the formula.	 "It would thus be clear that the decision of this major	itemin  the working of the formula presents	 many  difficulties;and  in the last analysis its decision depends upon  severalhypothetical   and   empirical	 considerations.    It	 is,therefore, not surprising that in the case of Metal Box	 Co.of  India,  Ltd.  v. Its Workmen (1)  the  Labour  AppellateTribunal  has observed that " It is unfortunately  too	truethat all(1)  [1952] L.A.C. 315, 321.971our  calculations as to rehabilitation may be  disproved  bysubsequent events; it is impossible to say what the trend ofworld  prices  would be in the next fifteen years  or  whichcircumstances  will  intervene before that period  to  upsetsuch calculations one way or the other, and no	calculationsof this kind are capable of mathematical accuracy.  We	haveto  take  a commonsense view of these matters  and  make  anallowance' for rehabilitation to the best of our ability andin accordance with our formula ". It has also been  observedby  the	 Labour Appellate Tribunal that	 if  an	 appropriatemultiplier  and divisor are determined " they are  generallyused   because	the  tribunals	take  the  view	  that	 thereconsideration	 of the said multiplier and  divisor  shouldnot be hastily undertaken and could be justified only on thebasis  of  a  substantial  change  of  a  stable   characterextending  or likely to extend over a sufficient  number  ofyears so as to make a definite and appreciable difference inthe   cost  of	replacement  ".	 (Vide:	 The   Mill   OwnersAssociation Bombay v. The Rashtriya Mill Mazdoor Sangh (1)In  dealing  with the employer's  claim	 for  rehabilitationtribunals  have	 always	 placed the onus  of  proof  on	 theemployer.   He	has  to prove the price	 of  the  plant	 andmachinery,  its	 age, the period during	 which	it  requiresreplacement, the cost of replacement, the amount standing inthe  depreciation and reserve fund, and to what	 extent	 thefunds  at his disposal would meet the cost  of	replacement.If the employer fails to lead satisfactory evidence on thesepoints	tribunals  have on occasions  totally  rejected	 hisclaim  for  rehabilitation. (Vide: Ganesh  Flour  Mills	 Co.Ltd., Kanpur v. Ganesh Flour Mills Staff Union, Kanpur	(2);Bombay	Gas  Co.  Ltd. v. Their	 Workmen  (3);	DharangadhraChemical  Works Ltd. v. Its Workmen (4)).  If the  tribunalsare satisfied that the employer is deliberately and  withouta  sufficient  cause not taking any steps  to  rehabilitate,replace	  or   modernise  his  machinery  even	 though	  anappropriate  allowance is made in that behalf from  year  toyear, they may take into(1)(1952) 1 L.L.J. 518.(3)(1955) 11 L.L.J. 152.(2)  [1952] L.C. 172(4)  (1956) 1 L.L.J. 475.972account	 this  conduct	in determining the  extent  of	suchallowance  in the bonus year in question.  Similarly  if  itappears	 that  the employer has deliberately  or  mala	fiderefrained from rehabilitating or replacing his old machinerywith a view to claim a higher multiplier in calculating	 therehabilitating	amount, the tribunals may take	his  conductinto   account	in  determining	 the  actual  allowance	  ofrehabilitation to him.The  main  difficulty  in  deciding  questions	about  reha-bilitation  arises from the fact that satisfactory  evidenceis  not always placed before the tribunals and it  is  urgedthat  the  evidence  given  by	the  employers'	 experts  isinterested and the workmen with their limited resources	 arenot able to test the said evidence by adequate or  effectivecross-examination.   In such a case the tribunal may, if  itso  desires and if it is possible, secure the assistance  ofassessors  (vide s. 38 of the Industrial Disputes Act).	  Itis therefore necessary that the tribunal should require	 theemployer  to give clear and satisfactory evidence about	 allthe  relevant  facts  on which it  can	make  the  requisiteestimate.  The questions which the tribunal has to  considerunder  this item are essentially questions of fact  and	 itsfinal decision on them is bound to be hypothetical, since itwould be based on a fair evaluation of several circumstanceswhich are by no means certain and which cannot be predicatedwith any amount of precision or even definiteness.  That  iswhy  it	 is of the utmost importance that all  relevant	 andmaterial  evidence should be adduced by the employer and  itshould	be properly tested by cross-examination.  When	thatis  done the tribunal must do its best to consider the	saidevidence  objectively  and  reach its final  decision  in  ajudicial manner.Once  the  amount of rehabilitation is thus  determined	 theavailable surplus for the bonus year is ascertained and	 thefinal  stage  is  reached  when the  tribunal  has  to	givedirections  for	 the  distribution  of	the  said  availablesurplus.   It is not seriously disputed that  three  partiesare  entitled  to claim a share in this	 available  surplus;labour claims bonus from it, the industry claims a share forthe purpose of its expansion973and  other needs, and share-holders claim a share by way  ofadditional  return on the capital invested by them.  In	 thecase  of the Mill Owners Association, Bombay (1)  where	 theformula	 was  evolved, out of the available surplus  of	 Rs.2.61  crores  2.16 crores was distributed by  way  of  bonusleaving a balance of 0.45 crores with the industry.  In	 theTrichinopoly  Mills Ltd. v. National Cotton  Mills  Workers'Union  (2) the available surplus was found to be Rs.  34,660and  out of it Rs. 30,000 was ordered to be  distributed  asbonus  to  the	workmen.  These two and	 other	similar	 in-stances,  however,  cannot be pressed into service  for	 thepurpose	 of  evolving any general rule as to  the  ratio  orproportion   in	 which	the  available	surplus	 should	  bedistributed.   The  ratio of  distribution  would  obviouslydepend	upon several facts: What are the wages paid  to	 theworkmen	 and what is the extent of the gap between the	sameand a living wage?  Has the employer set apart any  gratuityfund ? If yes, what is the amount that should be allowed forthe bonus year ? What is the extent of the available surplus?  What are the dividends actually paid by the employer	 andwhat are the probabilities of the industry entering upon  animmediate  programme  of  expansion?   What  dividends	 areusually	 paid by comparable concerns ? What is	the  generalfinancial  position  of the employer?  Has the	employer  tomeet  any urgent liability such as redemption  of  debenturebonds  ?  These and similar  considerations  will  naturallydetermine  the actual mode of distribution of the  availablesurplus.   In this connection labour's claim to fill up	 thegap between the wage actually paid to it and the living wagehas  an	 important bearing on the decision  of	this  point.Industry's claim for paying additional return on capital andfor  making  additional provision for expansion	 would	alsohave to be considered.	The fact that the employer would  beentitled  to a rebate of income-tax on the amount  of  bonuspaid to his workmen has to be taken into account and in manycases it plays a significant part in the final distribution.Therefore, in our opinion once the(1) (1952) 1 L.L.J. 518.     (2) (1953) 11 L.L.J. 361.974available surplus is determined, the tribunal should, in thelight  of  all relevant circumstances, proceed	to  make  anaward  directing  the payment of a fair and just  amount  tolabour	by  way	 of bonus.  If the formula  is	thus  workedreasonably it would in a large majority of cases succeed  inachieving  its	principal object of doing  justice  both  tolabour and industry.Before	we part with the question of working the formula  itis  necessary to observe that the practice adopted  by	sometribunals  in giving the amount of bonus a priority  in	 thecalculations  is not justified.	 Logically it is only  afterall the prior charges have been determined and deducted fromthe gross profits that available surplus can be ascertained;and  it is only after the available surplus  is	 ascertainedthat the question of awarding bonus can be considered.	Sometribunals  seem to work out nationally the amount  of  bonuswhich they think can be awarded and place that amount higherup in the process of making calculations before the  income-tax  payable is determined.  The inevitable  consequence  ofthis procedure is to make the amount of tax  proportionatelyless.	We wish to make it clear that this procedure  shouldnot  be	 followed.   As	 we have  already  pointed  out,  indirecting  the	distribution of the  available	surplus	 thetribunal  has to take into account the rebate of  income-taxto  which  the employer is entitled on the amount  of  bonuspaid to his workmen but that on principle is different	fromplacing	 the amount of bonus immediately after	depreciationin the working of the formula.It  has	 been urged before us by the  respondents  that	 theamount	 of  rehabilitation  as	 well  as  the	 amount	  ofdepreciation  should  be  deducted from	 the  gross  profitsbefore	 income-tax   payable  is  ascertained.	   In	thisconnection  reliance  is  placed on the	 fact  that  in	 itsjudgment  which	 evolved the formula  the  Labour  AppellateTribunal  has at one place described rehabilitation  as	 thefirst charge in priorities.  Having regard to the context inwhich  the said statement is made it is clear that all	thatthe  Labour Appellate Tribunal wanted to emphasise was	thatthe textile industry975with which it was directly concerned in the said case neededrehabilitation	very urgently.	The final calculations	madein  the	 judgment  give a clear indication  as	to  how	 theformula has to be worked out.  We are, therefore,  satisfiedthat  rehabilitation  cannot  be  given	 the  high  priorityclaimed for it by the respondents,We  must  now  consider whether the tribunal  was  right  indirecting  that overtime payment should be' included in	 thecalculation of the bonus which it has directed the appellantto  pay.  Mr. Kolah contends that the direction	 to  includeovertime wages is contrary to the usual practice followed byindustrial  tribunals and it is also unsound  on  principle.This dispute arises between the employer and the workmen  inthis  acute  form because the total amount of bonus  is	 notdetermined   logically	after  ascertaining  the   availablesurplus.   If  the said amount is  logically  determined  asindicated  by us, then the question as to  whether  overtimewages should be included or not would really be a matter  ofdispute between workmen inter se because once the amount  ofbonus  is determined, how it should be	distributed  betweenworkmen	 inter	se  would cease to be  a  matter  of  directconcern	 to  the employer.  Therefore we  think	 that  therewould be no occasion for such a dispute between the employerand  his workmen if the tribunals follow the logical  methodof  determining the amount of bonus in the manner  indicatedby us.On principle we do not think it would be fair to the workmenas  a whole that overtime should be included in	 calculatingthe bonus which each workman should receive.  Workmen who doovertime  get additional payment for such overwork.   If  inaddition  to  such payment they are allowed to	include	 thesaid  payment in their wages in calculating bonus  to  whichthey  are entitled, obviously the gap between  their  actualwage  and  the living wage would be filled up  to  a  largerextent than in the case of other workmen who do not  receivesuch  additional overtime payment.  Besides, if the  paymentof bonus proceeds on the broad consideration that it is	 dueto  the	 workmen for their contribution to  the	 profits  itwould be unreasonable to make124976a distinction between workmen and workmen on the ground thatsome  have contributed more to the profit than	others;	 andthat  is exactly what would follow if overtime	workers	 areallowed	 to claim a larger amount of bonus than their  othercolleagues.  That is why we think that the tribunal was	 notjustified in directing that the calculations of bonus shouldbe  made on the basis that overtime payments  constituted  apart of the basic wages of the employees.The next point to consider relates to the return on  paid-upcapital	 to which the appellant is entitled.   The  tribunalhas  awarded  to the appellant return at the rate of  6%  onpaid-up	 capital  and  at 4% on the  working  capital.	 Theappellant  claims  a  return at a  higher  rate	 on  paid-upcapital	 whereas  the respondents contend  that	 the  returnshould	be paid on the paid-up capital at a lower rate.	  Insupport	 of its claim for a higher return the appellant	 hasrelied	on the fact that it has consistently paid  dividendsat  a reasonably low rate and it did not seek to make  undueprofits	 even during the years of war.	In  this  connectionMr. Kolah has invited our attention to a statement, Ex.	  C-1, showing the percentage of dividend to paid-up capital andinvested capital for the eighteen financial years 1936-37 to1953-54	 and  he has asked us to contrast the low  rates  ofdividend  evidenced  by	 it with  dividends  paid  by  othercompanies  as shown by another document Ex.  C-12.   He	 hasalso  asked  us	 to take into account the  highest  and	 thelowest	quotation  for the company's shares  in	 the  BombayStock Exchange during the period 1949-55.  On the other handMr.  Dudhia  has  urged that during the	 relevant  year	 theappellant  has capitalised Rs. 35.85 lakhs from the  reservefund  and  175.45 lakhs from Premium-on	 Shares	 Account  byissuing	 one bonus share for every five shares held  by	 theshareholders;  and he argues that the tribunal was in  errorin allowing 6% on the paidup capital during the bonus  year.Incidentally  Mr. Dudhia also relied, though  halfheartedly,on  the finding of the tribunal that the appellant had	paidan  inflated price for the pre-1939 block.  It is true	thatin one place the tribunal has made an observation to977this  effect ; but it is clear that the said observation  isinconsistent  with its definite finding recorded earlier  inthe course of its judgment that it was not prepared to	holdthat  the A. C. C. had inflated the capital invested by	 themerging	 companies by taking them over in  1936.   Thereforethis  part  of	Mr. Dudhia's argument is  invalid..  In	 ouropinion, the question as to what return should be allowed topaid-up	 capital  in'  a  given case  must  be	left  to  bedetermined  by the tribunal in its discretion having  regardto  all the relevant facts; and if the tribunal has  in	 itsdiscretion awarded 6% interest on the paid-up capital we seeno  reason to interfere with its decisions It is clear	thatno question of principle or law is involved in the matter.There  is  one more point which we must consider  before  weproceed	 to deal with the facts in the present	case.	Thispoint relates to the employer's claim to treat the amount inthe gratuity fund as a prior charge; and this claim has beenallowed	 by  the tribunal.  It appears that in	M/S.   MetroMotors	v. Their Workmen (1) the Labour	 Appellate  Tribunalobserved  that	it was desirable in all cases  to  create  aseparate  reserve  fund for the payment of gratuity  and  itdirected  that the modest fund claimed by the  employer	 forthe  year  in  question	 was a	proper	deduction  from	 itsprofits.   The question which we have to decide	 is  whetherthe  allowance on this account should be treated as a  priorcharge in making the calculations under the formula.   Therecan  be	 no  doubt that, in a sense, the  gratuity  fund  iscreated	 for the benefit of workmen and there should  be  nodifficulty  in	recognising the appellant's  claim  for	 thededuction  of an appropriate amount on this account; but  wethink  on principle it is desirable that no addition  shouldbe  made  to  the list of prior charges	 recognised  by	 theformula.   Even so when the available surplus is  determinedthe tribunal ought to take into account the employer's claimon  account of the gratuity fund created for the benefit  ofhis workmen and the amount which the tribunal may regard  asa reasonable(1)(1952) II L.L.J. 205.978allowance in that behalf should be definitely borne in	mindin  finally deciding the amount which should be paid to	 theworkmen	 by  way  of  bonus.   This  method  will  meet	 theemployer's  claim adequately without making any addition  tothe list of priorities specified in the formula.  Mr. Dudhiacontended  that the tribunal should not have allowed Rs.  10lakhs  under  this  item but we do not think  there  is	 anysubstance in this contention.Incidentally Mr. Dudhia has pointed out that in dealing withthe  appellant's claim for a return on working	capital	 thetribunal  has made a mistake by including a further  sum  of0.66 lakhs as return on investments.  Mr. Kolah has concededthat  this  is a mistake and so the return  on	the  workingcapital would stand at 26.10 lakhs only.It  is	now  necessary	to  consider  the  evidence  of	 Mr.Tongaonkar  and decide the most controversial point of	factin  dispute  between  the  parties  about  the	 appellant'srequirements  for rehabilitation.  Mr. Tongaonkar holds	 theDegree of Bachelor of Science of the London University,	 andhe  is	also  a	 Member of  the	 Institution  of  ElectricalEngineers,  London.   He joined the  appellant	in  November1934,  but before that he had nearly three years'  practicalexperience  in England in various engineering firms; and  onhis  return  to India, he had joined the  Dinshaw  group  ofcement factories.  He continued to work with the said  groupuntil  its  merger with the appellant in 1936, when  he	 wasappointed by the appellant.  Mr. Tongaonkar is in charge  ofthe  department	 which deals with the  construction  of	 newcement	 factories,  modernisation  and	 extension  of	 theexisting cement factories, design and manufacture of  cementmachinery  for A. C. C., and major engineering	problems  ofthe  A.C.C.  Since  April 1956 he  has	been  appointed	 theController  of Planning and Development of the A. C.  C.  Hevisits the A. C. C. factories very frequently and claims  tobe acquainted with the condition of the plant and  machineryat  all the A. C. C. factories.	 There is no doubt that	 Mr.Tongaonkar  is qualified to give evidence on  the  technicalpoints which are relevant in979dealing	 with the question of rehabilitation.  Even  so,  inappreciating 'his evidence, it would not be unreasonable  tobear in mind the fact that he is an officer employed by	 theappellant,  and	 as such he is likely to  be  interested  insupporting the claim for rehabilitation which the  appellanthas decided to make.According to Mr. Tongaonkar, the average future life of	 theplant and machinery existing in 1939 would' be approximatelyseven  years  from  1-8-1954.	Similarly,  the	 approximatefuture life of the three other categories of blocks would be13,  15	 and 20 years respectively.  He has stated  that  incalculating  the life of machinery, it is necessary to	takeinto  consideration, first the mechanical condition  of	 themachinery,  second  whether  it is  efficient  or  has	beenrendered  obsolete  because new machinery of  modern  designwith  a	 considerably better efficiency has  come  into	 themarket.	  In  other words, the probable useful life  of	 themachinery may be prematurely determined by the emergence  ofmore  efficient machinery.  In support of this statement  hehas  given  some instances where the  appellant's  plant  ormachinery had to be changed mainly for the reason that a newcorresponding plant or machinery was more efficient and gavemore satisfactory results.  However, stated generally,in theopinion	 of the witness, the average life of a cement  planttaken  as a whole would be 25 years if it is properly  main-tained.Mr.  Tongaonkar then gave evidence about the rise in  pricesof plant and machinery and he produced Ex.  C-36 which is  astatement  showing the progressive increase in	prices	frompre-war days up to 1955-56 of major items of machinery, gearboxes, motors and power plant used in cement factories.	  Hehas stated that the said statement had been prepared on	 thebasis  of actual quotations which he had in his	 possession.His  evidence  shows that between 1951-54 there has  been  arise  of 11%, whereas between 1954-56 there has been a	riseof 7% in the prices of the relevant items of machinery.	  Hethen sought to corroborate his evidence on this point by theexpenditure actually incurred by the appellant while puttinginto commission980a  new	cement	factory	 at  Sindri  in	 about	1955.	 Thecalculations  made by him in this behalf show that the	costof construction of a new factory is approximately 4.3  timesthe cost of construction of similar factory in 1939.In  regard to the life of buildings, Mr.  Tongaonkar  statedthat first-class buildings lived approximately for 40  yearsprovided they are properly maintained and provided they	 arenot in earthquake zone; but he added, that for the main unitof  the	 cement	 plant	it is usual  to	 take  the  life  ofbuildings  at 25 years.	 He also stated that in	 many  casesthe  existing buildings have got to be either demolished  orconsiderably modified when the main machinery whose life  is25 years has to be replaced by modern machinery which is  ofa  different  design and which would require  buildings	 andfoundations  of	 different size and type.   Thus,  for	thisspecial	 circumstance also, he was not prepared to give	 thebuildings  of the appellant an average life longer  than  25years.In  regard  to	the increase in	 the  cost  of	constructingbuildings, he produced two statements, C-6 and C-14.  Ex. C-6  shows the increase in prices of building materials  since1938-1954,   whereas   Ex.   C-14  shows   the	 continuallyincreasing  amount of expenditure incurred by the  appellantfor construction of labour quarters, etc.It  is on this evidence that Mr. Tongaonkar has adopted	 therespective  multipliers	 and  divisors in  arriving  at	 thefigure	of  the amount required for rehabilitation.   As  wehave  already  pointed out, for the pre-1939  block  he	 hastaken  4.28  as	 the  multiplier,  whereas  for	 the   blockpurchased   between  1940-44  he  has  taken  2.8   as	 themultiplier.  He has explained that the multiplier of 4.28 isreally	made up of two multipliers.  Certain portion of	 theplant  and  equipment  which  is  obtained  from  abroad  isestimated  at 60% of the total cost and the  expenditure  onthe  remaining items is estimated at 40% of the total  cost.The multipliers of these two groups are estimated at 4.8 and3.5  respectively, and by calculations it has  been  noticedthat the average ratio comes to 4.28. This is the981genesis of, and the justification for, the adoption of	4.28as the multiplier.  He has also added that the proportion of60%  and  40%  which  he had  mentioned	 was  based  on	 hisexperience  of building a number of cement factories and  ofcarrying out extension and modernisation of existing  cementfactories.   The multiplier was based, said the witness,  onthe state, of comparative quotations of plant and  machineryreceived   in  1939  and  quotations  received	of   similarmachinery recently.  It would thus be clear that in devisingthe  multiplier and divisor, Mr. Tongaonkar has	 drawn	verylargely on his experience and has drawn inferences which  hethought	 were  reasonable.  Besides in making  the  relevantcalculations  he has not dealt with the plant and  machineryand  the  buildings  and other assets  separately,  but	 haslumped them together under the respective blocks.The  approximate  cost	of the merging	companies  of  theirassets as on July 31, 1936, was 5.73 crores of rupees.	 Ex.C-3   which  is	 a  certificate	 issued	 by  the   CharteredAccountants  shows  that  " according  to  the	blocks,	 theoriginal  cost	of  the	 block	of  fixed  assets  excludinggoodwill  and purchase of rights and land as at	 31st  July,1954,  of  the	appellant  under  the  groups  of  years  ofacquisition", amounted to Rs. 19,41,38, 100.  Similarly, Ex.C-28  which  is also a certificate issued by  the  CharteredAccountants, shows that the original cost of such portion offixed  assets excluding goodwill and purchase of rights	 andlands  as have been discarded, scrapped or sold as  on	July31,  1954,  of the appellant companies under the  groups  ofyears  of acquisition noted in the certificate, amounted  toRs.  1,70,91,  296.  The  figures  supplied  by	 these	 twocertificates are mentioned in cols. 2 and 3 respectively  inEx.   C-2.  Under the method adopted by Mr.  Tongaonkar	 thecost  of discards is shown in the respective years when	 theportions of blocks were discarded; and the amounts spent  onrehabilitation	from year to year have gone with the  blocksof the said respective years shown in col. 2. The amount  ofrehabilitation	has thus been calculated by the adoption  ofthe multiplier and divisor selected by Mr. Tongaonkar.	 Thequestion982which calls for our decision is whether the multipliers	 anddivisors  adopted  by  Mr.  Tongaonkar can  be	said  to  beappropriate.   As  we  have already  mentioned,	 it  is	 themultipliers  and divisors that play a decisive part  in	 thedetermination of the employer's claim for rehabilitation  inall bonus proceedings,Mr.  Tongaonkar's evidence has been severely  criticised  bythe respondents and in fact, the tribunal does not appear tohave  been favourably impressed by it.	Before dealing	withthe  criticism	made  against  his  evidence,  it  would  bepertinent  to observe that the witness has given  exhaustivedetails	 on the points put to him  in  examination-in-chief,and  his  evidence, read as a whole, does make	an  imposingreading.   But	sometimes  the wealth of  details  given  byexperts	 is Apt to complicate the narrow points	 of  disputebetween	 the parties and to create doubt and confusion;	 thelarge  number  of technical details expressed  in  technicallanguage  may,	in  some cases, tend to	 cloud	rather	thanclarify	 the points which the tribunal has to consider.	  Wefeel  inclined	to hold that is what has  happened  to	someextent	in  the	 present case.	But that  by  itself  cannotobviously be said to introduce any infirmity in the evidencegiven  by  the expert or affect its  credibility.   It	onlymeans  the tribunal has to analyse his	statements,  examinethem  carefully	 in the light of his  cross-examination	 anddecide how far it would be justified in acting on them.It  has	 been urged before us by the  respondents  that	 theclaim made by Mr. Tongaonkar in regard to the rehabilitationof the pre-1939 block should be rejected.  The contention isthat,  this block must have been completely replaced  before1953 and no claim for its rehabilitation can be entertained.This argument was based substantially on the assumption thata  part of Rs. 997.42 lakhs must have been utilised for	 thepurpose	 of  replacing the said block.	Mr.  Tongaonkar	 hasstated	that  prior to 1-8-1954 the total  amount  spent  onmodernisation,	replacement  and  rehabilitation  and  othersundry jobs, but excluding' expansion, was approximately Rs.9.97"crores,  and in support of this 'statement he  producedEx.  C-29,983which shows the said expenditure year by year.	According tothis  statement 78 lakhs had been spent on the	constructionof  Rohri Works and Kistna Works, and Rs. 622-13  lakhs	 hadbeen  spent  on the expansion during  the  post-war  period.This  gives the figure of Rs. 700.13 lakhs.  Deducting	thisamount from the total expenditure of Rs. 1697-55 lakhs,	 thebalance	 of,  Rs. 997.42 lakhs is shown	 as  expenditure  onmodernisation, rehabilitation, replacement and other  sundrycapital jobs.  It is in respect of this amount of Rs. 997.42lakhs  that Mr. Tongaonkar was severely cross-examined.	  Incross-examination he stated that he was not in a position tosay whether out of the total expenditure of Rs. 997.42 lakhsshown  in  Ex.	 C-29  a major portion	had  been  spent  onrehabilitation	and  replacement of the pre-1939  block	 and1940-44	 block.	 He admitted that the figures in  Ex.	C-29had  been  prepared  by the  Accounts  Department  from	 theFinancial Books so far as year to year total expenditure wasconcerned  and he also stated that it was not  possible	 forhim  to	 give  details about the  said	expenditure.   Theseanswers	 indicated that the amount of Rs. 997.42  lakhs	 hadbeen  ascertained mechanically by deducting from  the  totalexpenditure of Rs. 1697.55 lakhs incurred on all jobs up  to31-7-1954  the	estimated expenditure of  Rs.  700.13  lakhswhich  was treated as expenditure for expansion	 during	 thesaid period.  It is on these statements that the respondentsplaced reliance in support of their argument that the amountof  Rs. 997.42 lakhs must have been utilised for  completelyreplacing the pre- 1939 block.	Thus presented, the argumentno doubt appeared very plausible, and so we asked Mr.  Kolahto  give  us a satisfactory explanation about the  items  ofthis  expenditure.   Accordingly  Mr.  Kolah  has  filed   astatement, Ex.	I which gives a rough classification of	 thetotal capital expenditure of about Rs. 997 lakhs incurred upto  31-7-1954 on modernisation, replacement,  rehabilitationand other sundry and miscellaneous jobs.  The several  itemsof this expenditure are broadly indicated under eight heads,the last of which covering an125984amount	of Rs. 160 lakhs has in its turn been split up	intofive  separate items by the statement 1(a).  There was	somedispute	 before	 us about the admissibility of some  of	 thesaid items under cl. 5 of this document 1(a).  But Mr. Kolahcontends, and it is not disputed by the respondents  either,that  even if the whole of the disputed item 5 is  excluded,the  remaining	items on Ex. 1 give  a	fairly	satisfactoryexplanation  about the work of	rehabilitation,	 replacementand modernisation on which the bulk of Rs. 997.42 lakhs musthave  been  spent.  In view of this statement we  must	holdthat  the assumption made by the respondents that  the	saidamount	of  Rs.	 997.42 lakhs must have	 been  utilised	 forreplacing the pre-1939 block is not well-founded.It  is	then contended that there is  no  justification	 forkeeping	 the  pre-1939	block still alive  in  view  of	 theestimate made by Mr. Tongaonkar about the life of the cementplant  and  machinery.	The suggestion is  that	 the  oldestblock  is  deliberately kept alive in order  to	 enable	 theappellant  to claim a higher multiplier in  calculating	 therehabilitation	amount.	 It cannot be said that there is  noforce  at  all in this criticism.  In  fact  Mr.  Tongaonkarhimself	 has  admitted that a given portion  of	 this  blockcould have been discarded earlier, but he added, that a partof it had been rehabilitated as a temporary measure in orderto  carry  on. That is why that particular  portion  of	 theblock  had not been discarded so far.  According to him	 thepre-1939  block	 contains  a portion whose  useful  life  isalready over, but the appellant would have to carry on	withit  until  finances  could be  found  for  modernisation  orreconstruction or entire replacement of the said block.	  Inour  opinion, this explanation cannot be said to  be  whollysatisfactory.	If  the useful life of the whole  block	 hadreally	expired,  the appellant would have easily  found  itpossible to replace the said block in due time having regardto its general financial position.The next criticism made against Mr. Tongaonkar's evidence isthat  admittedly he has not calculated the average  life  ofthe said block.	 He stated that he had assessed the pre-1939block by his personal visits to985the  factory  by  observing  to	 what  extent  it  had	beenrehabilitated as a temporary measure and by considering whatits  present  condition was.  It is possible that  with	 hisknowledge and experience Mr. Tongaonkar may be able to	forma  proper assessment about the life of the machinery in	 themanner	deposed	 to by him.   But  unfortunately,  effectivecross-examination  on  this point has been stifled  to	someextent	because'  we  find  that  on  some  material  pointsquestions  put to the witness were objected to by Mr.  Kolahand  the objection was upheld by the tribunal.	The  witnesswas  asked whether he could tell the tribunal with his	wideexperience,  how  many years on the average 1939  block	 hadspent prior to 1939.  This question was clearly relevant andfrom  the respondents' point of view it was  important.	  Ifthe  witness was able to predicate about the  future  usefullife of the machinery from his examination of the plant,  itwas  suggested to him that it should be possible for him  togive  an estimate about the life already spent by it by	 thesame process.  The object of this question obviously was  toshow  that the machinery in question had lived	much  longerthan its estimated life as deposed to by the witness.	Thisquestion   having  been	 disallowed,  any   further   cross-examination  to test the claim of the witness that from	 theinspection and examination of the machinery he can predicatethe period of its future useful life became impossible.	 Thewitness	 was  further  asked to state whether  it  would  becorrect	 to  assume that the said pre-1939 block had  on  anaverage spent more than 15 years of its life.  This questionalso  was disallowed, and the respondents naturally  make  aserious grievance that they were not given an opportunity toshow  that Mr. Tongaonkar's estimate about the life  of	 theplant and machinery was a gross under statement.The  respondents  have	then objected to  the  inclusion  ofseveral	 items	in the approximate  cost  of  rehabilitationmentioned in col. 8 of Ex.  C-2.  The new additional packingmachine	 in regard to the factory at Banmore as well as	 thecrane storage are, it is urged, not items of rehabilitation,but of expansion.  Similar986criticism  is made in regard to the  dust-collector  plants,coal-handling plants, items in regard to the  fluidificationsystem, diesel engine shunting locomotive and similar  otheritems.	 The  respondents' grievance is	 that  by  includingthese  items  which  are really matters	 of  expansion,	 theamount of approximate cost of rehabilitation has been undulyincreased.   We	 are  unable  to say  if  the  grievance  isjustified.In  regard to the multiplier adopted by Mr. Tongaonkar,	 thecriticism is that it is based on hypothetical considerationsdetermined  by	him  in a subjective  manner.	It  is	alsopointed out that the failure of the witness to take out	 thepresent day replacement cost of individual items of the pre-1939   block  has  introduced  an  additional	element	  ofuncertainty in the final calculations made by him in  regardto the multiplier.  No doubt, the witness has stated that hehas used the multiplier of 4.8 on a comparative study of thequotations  received between 1939 and the present  day,	 butdealing	  with	the  machinery	blockwise  is  not  a	verysatisfactory  way  of  determining such	 a  multiplier.	  Insupport	  of  this  argument,  reference  is  made  to	 thestatements  made by the witness to the cost of 180-ton	per-day  kiln, if manufactured by the appellant, would be  lowerthan  that of a 300-ton-a-day kiln.  The witness then  addedthat  the  appellant does not  manufacture  a  180-ton-a-daykiln,  and if such a kiln is imported from abroad  its	costwould  be somewhat higher than that of a 300-ton-a-day	kilnmanufactured by the appellant under present day	 conditions.He  was then asked whether he had got a quotation of a	180-ton-a-day  kiln, and he admitted that he had none, and	thathe had estimated it approximately at Rs. 11 1/2 lakhs.	 Therespondents  urged that this estimate about the cost  of  animported  180-ton-a-day kiln is purely notional and  is	 notbased on any material at all.  This part of the criticism isjustified.The  next argument urged against the statements prepared  byMr. Tongaonkar is that he appears to have taken into accountthe prices prevailing in 1956 and has completely ignored theprices	as  they obtained in the previous  years.   We	havealready observed that987in deciding the amount of rehabilitation by the adoption  ofan  appropriate	 multiplier, the tribunal should  take	intoaccount	 all relevant facts and these would not be  confinedto  the price level prevailing in any one  particular  year.When deciding the hypothetical question as to what would  bethe price in future when the plant and machinery would	haveto be replaced or rehabilitated, the tribunal has to take anoverall picture of prices into account, and the argument  isthat  concentration  on the price level of  1956  alone	 hasintroduced  an	infirmity in the calculations  made  by	 thewitness.There  is another infirmity in these calculations which	 hasbeen  criticised  by the respondents.	Mr.  Tongaonkar	 haslumped together the plant and machinery as well as buildingsand other properties belonging to the appellant in col. 2 ofEx.   C-2.  The more scientific and satisfactory  method  ofdealing with the question of rehabilitation is to treat	 theplant and machinery separately from the buildings and  otherassets that need rehabilitation.  In fact we asked Mr. Kolahto  give  us a statement showing the cost of the  plant	 andmachinery  and the buildings and other assets separately  inorder  to  enable  us to have a clearer	 picture  about	 theextent of the rehabilitation needs of the appellant.  He hasaccordingly filed a statement, Ex. F (a).There  is  yet	another	 point	on  which  Mr.	Tongaonkar'sevidence  has  been criticised by the  respondents.   It  isargued	that this evidence shows that under his	 concept  ofmodernisation  several items of expansion can  be  included.Mr. Tongaonkar has stated that by ' modernisation' he  meant'a  composite scheme comprising replacement of the  part  ofthe   old  machinery  by  new  machinery,  installation	  ofadditional  machinery  because the layout of  the  compositemodernisation  scheme is different from the previous  layoutand  rehabilitation  of the remaining machinery as  a  shortterm measure'.	By ' rehabilitation' he ment 'alterations toa  machine  or	machinery, installation	 for  improving	 itsmechanical  performance,  its  technical  efficiency  or  toextend its life by a further span'.  This would also988include	 what he compendiously describes as the	 removal  ofweak links.  According to him expansion can be divided	intotwo groups, viz., Group No.-1 construction of the completelynew factory solely for obtaining additional production;	 andGroup  No.  2 would cover the specific	additional  machineswhich are installed not for modernisation purposes as  such,but   with  the	 primary  object  of  obtaining	  additionalproduction.   He concedes that in the 'modernisation  of  anexisting  factory' expansion is only a part of	the  scheme.This means that in the	modernisation scheme' there would bean element of' expansion'.  It would thus be clear that	 thevery broad and wide description of  modernisation' given  bythe  witness would justifiably give rise to an	apprehensionin  the minds of workmen that under the heading of  'modern-isation' items of  expansion ' pure and simple are likely tocreep  in.   That is why evidence given by experts  in	suchproceedings  needs to be scrutinised carefully, with a	viewto exclude items of 'expansion' properly so called from	 therelevant calculations.Mr.  Tongaonkar has stated that when plant or  machinery  isrehabilitated  or  replaced  it	 may  lead  to	increase  inproduction.   But  such an in Crease is	 purely	 incidental.But  what would be the position where, for instance, a	180-ton-a-day kiln is substituted by a 300-ton-a-day kiln by wayof rehabilitation or replacement ?  The employer is entitledto say that the first category of kilns is not available  inthe  market  or	 that the later category of  kilns  is	moreprofitable Ind economically more useful.  That being so,  ifthe  first  kiln  is discarded and  is	substituted  by	 thelatter, that is an item of rehabilitation or replacement andnot of expansion.  On the other hand, by the substitution ofthe latter kiln there would be such an appreciable  increasein  production that the workmen may be entitled	 to  contendthat   some   apportionment   should   be   made   and	 therehabilitation	part  of the machinery should  be  separatedfrom   the   expansion	part  which  has  crept	  into	 thetransaction.  We confess that it would be- very difficult toundertake the task of making any such apportionment.989Even  so, tribunals may have to consider the workmen's	pleaif  they are satisfied that the steps taken by the  employerby  way of rehabilitation have led to a very large  increasein  production.	  In this connection  the  respondents	haverelied	on  Ex.	 H. 0. C-2 which, according to	them,  showsconsiderable increase in production, and that, it is  urged,is the result of expansion and not of rehabilitation.Mr. Tongaonkar has suggested in his evidence that it is	 theintention of the employer that decides the character of	 thetransaction.  If the employer wants to instal new  machinerysolely	with the object of expanding his business,  that  isexpansion;  but if he purchases new machinery  for  businessreasons	 and not for the purposes of expansion, it would  berehabilitation	 notwithstanding  the  fact  that  the	 newmachinery   gives  rise	 to  increased	 production.	Thisapproach,  in  our opinion, gives undue	 importance  to	 theintention  of  the employer and we think that, on  a  properoccasion,  the	question may have to be	 considered  by	 theapplication of some objective tests.  In this connection  itwould  be relevant to bear in mind the fact that  the  stepstaken  by  the appellant for  rehabilitating,  replacing  ormodernising  its  machinery  are  a  part  of  its  plan  ofexpanding its business so as to meet the growing demand	 forcement in our country.In  deciding  the  question  as	 to  whether  the  claim  asdisclosed  by the statements prepared by Mr.  Tongaonkar  isinflated  or not, the respondents have asked us to  considerthe  estimate  made  by the  appellant's  Chairman  in	thatbehalf.	 In his speech delivered on January 24, 1951, at theFourteenth Annual General Meeting of the appellant  company,the Chairman stated that most of the company's pre-war plantwould  be due for replacement in the course of the next	 tenyears  and  he	added that " at the  present  price  levels,replacement will cost on an average 2 1/2 times the originalcost.	This  will  involve an expenditure of  about  Rs.  8crores	over  and  above  the  provision  already  made	 fordepreciation  ". The contention is that, considered  in	 thelight	of   this   estimate,	the   pre,sent	 claim	 forrehabilitation is very much inflated.990When Mr. Tongaonkar was asked about this estimate he  statedthat  the Chairman had not consulted him while drafting	 theannual report or while drafting the portion of the speech inregard to 'rehabilitation' and he also added that he did notagree  with the figures given by the Chairman regarding	 thereplacement cost of plant and machinery in his report  datedJanuary	 24,  1951.   This  explanation	 may  not  be	verysatisfactory.	But we cannot ignore the fact that when	 theChairman made his statement he did not purport to  calculatethe claim for rehabilitation in terms of the formula and  soit would not be fair to test the evidence of the witness  inthe  light  of	the estimate given by the  Chairman  in	 hisspeech.We have so far considered the broad arguments urged  againstMr. Tongaonkar's evidence.  Unfortunately, the tribunal	 hascontented  itself  merely  with	 the  observation  that	 themultiplier  of	2.7 would be adequate; and it has  given  nofinding as to the suitable divisor.  That is why we must nowproceed	 to  adopt  a suitable multiplier  and	divisor	 fordeciding  the question of rehabilitation.  We  have  alreadystated our conclusions in regard to some of the	 infirmitiesin  the	 evidence  of  Mr.  Tongaonkar	and  the  statementsprepared  by him.  He has lumped together all assets of	 theappellant  that	 need  rehabilitation.	He  has	 taken	intoaccount	 the  prices  prevailing only in 1956,	and  in	 theselection  of  an average multiplier he	 has  probably	beenslightly generous to the appellant.  His estimate about	 thelife  of the plant and machinery has not been allowed to  besufficiently  tested in crossexamination and, on the  whole,it  appears  to	 err  a little too much on  the	 side  of  aconservative  estimate ; and if that is so his	divisor	 mayneed  revision;	 it  is	 also probable	that  in  the  itemsincluded by him under rehabilitation may have been  includedsome  which  are  more of the character	 of  expansion	thanrehabilitation,	 replacement or modernisation.	Besides,  itis  not	 unlikely  that the steps  taken  by  the  appellantostensibly for rehabilitation, replacement and modernisationof the machinery have appreciably increased its	 production,and that may partly be due to the fact that the991general plan of expansion adopted by the appellant has	beenin  operation  for some time past.  It is in  the  light  ofthese  facts that we have to examine the  appellant's  claimfor  rehabilitation.  In doing so, we have taken  Ex.	C-2,Ex.   C-23 and Ex.  F (a) as a basis for  our  calculations.It  is	somewhat unfortunate that in making  its  claim	 forrehabilitation	Mr.  Tongaonkar did  not  make	calculationsseparately  in	respect of plant and machinery	as  distinctfrom  buildings, roads, bridges and railway sidings.  It  istrue  that at our instance a statement Ex.  F (a)  has	beenfiled  before  us; but if such a statement  had	 been  filedbefore the tribunal, the respondents would have had a betteropportunity of testing the accuracy of the calculations madein it and the basis on which the respective multipliers	 anddivisors  are  sought  to be deduced  from  it.	  We  would,therefore, like to make it clear that the calculations whichwe   now  propose  to  make  in	 regard	 to  the   item	  ofrehabilitation	should	not be ,taken to be binding  on	 theparties	 in  subsequent	 years.	 If, in	 the  light  of	 ourdecision  on  the principal points raised before us  in	 thepresent appeals, the parties decide to settle their disputesabout bonus for subsequent years there would be no  occasionfor  the  tribunal  to deal with them on  the  merits.	 If,however, these disputes have to be, settled by the tribunal,it would be open to the parties to lead evidence in  supportof their respective contentions.  The tribunal also would beat liberty to consider the matter afresh and come to its ownconclusion on the merits.Let  us now proceed to make the relevant calculations.	 Thefirst step to take is to correct the figures in Ex.  C-2  byexcluding  the	cost  of  buildings,  roads,  ,bridges	 andrailway-sidings from the total cost mentioned in it  againstthe  several blocks.  This cost has been supplied to  us  bythe  appellant in Ex.  F (a).  This is how  the	 correctionswork out.  In our calculations all figures are expressed  in'lakhs':126992		  Chart I. Period	      Original cost	Less cost of	Balance       of block	       buildings etc.(1)		    (2)	     (3)		(4)Up to 1939	   486.89    132.98	       353.911940-44		    59.91	22.38		   37.531945-47		   208.93	68.15		  140.781948-54		  1144.81      333.47		  811.34In Ex.	F (a) the appellant has shown the respective averageratios in col. 5 in regard to items of property mentioned incol.  2. We think, in making our calculations, it  would  onthe  whole be fair to adopt 3.5 as a suitable multiplier  upto  1939, 2 from 1940.47 and 1 from 1948-54 (as in C-2)	 forreplacement by part A.C.C. machinery.  We have not disturbedthe  divisors taken by C-2 though we feel inclined  to	holdthat Mr. Tongaonkar has underestimated the probable life  ofmachinery.    The   amount   of	  yearly   requirement	 forrehabilitation	for the total block minus  buildings,  etc.,would  then work out at Rs. 229.39. This does not take	intoaccount	 the available reserves; that aspect  is  consideredlater on:	       Chart II.Period Originalcost of	 Multiplier Total  Less Balance Life   Yearly			  break-	of   require-			 down as machi-	   ment		       in Ex. C-2     nery				    (in Yrs.)(1)	  (2)	 (3)   (4)     (5)	 (6)	 (7)	(8)	(approx.)UP to 1939 353.91 x3.5	1238.68	 65.921172.767	 167.541940-44	 37.53	 x2    75.06	4.66	 70.40135.411945-47	 140.78	 x2    281.56  11.19   270.371518.021948-54	 811.34	 x1   811.34   42.84	 768.502038.42					   ..........				 Total	       229.39					   ..........Then  we would deal with the buildings, roads,	bridges	 andrailway-sidings.,  These may be given an average life of  30years for all blocks in order to compensate for cases  wherethey  have  to be demolished on	 account  of  modernisation.According  to the previous statements of the  appellant	 thelife of factory buildings was about 35 years and residential993areas 50 years.	 Even so we propose to take the average lifeof  30 years in making our calculations in respect of  theseblocks.	  The multipliers may be taken as 2.25 for  pre-1939blocks,	 1.5 for 1940-47 blocks, 1 for 1948-54 blocks.	 TheBombay block has been taken as in Ex.  C-2:	  Chart III.Period	Cost   Multi- Total   Less Balancelife	Yearly	plier		 break down    require-			  valued at 5%	 ment			    of cost(1)	   (2)	    (3)	   (4)	   (5)	  (6)	(7)   (8)UP to 1939  132.98  X 2.25   299.20  6.65  292.55 20   144.631940-44	   22.38  x 1.5	   33.57   1.12	 32.45	25    1.291945-47	   68.15  x 1.5	   102.22  3.40	 98.82	25    3.951948-54	    333.47 x 1	     333.47  16.67 316.80 30   10.56Bombayoffice	   40.83	    50.28     .73  49.55  69	 .71block				       .............					Total  31.14				       .............Thus the total yearly requirement for rehabilitation of thisblock would come to 31.14 lakhs.The   appellant's  claim  for  rehabilitation  can  now	  becalculated  on	the basis of Ex.  C-23 as corrected  in	 thelight  of  the	three  charts  prepared	 by  us.   As,	 thecalculations  in  the  chart show, we would  hold  that	 theappellant  is entitled to an allowance of 216.10  lakhs	 forrehabilitation in the relevant year:	     Chart IV.Replacement of pre-1939 block:Cost of machinery(Chart II)	    1172.76Deduct reserves	     311.00Balance		     861.76  divided by 7:  123.11Add for buildings(Chart III)					14.63				     ..............Total					       137.74Replacement cost of 1940-44  blockIncluding buildings etc. (5.41 plus 1.29) ...	 6.70     do	   for 1945-47	(18.02 plus 3.95) ...	21.97     do	   for 1948-54 (38.42 plus 10.56) ...	48.98     do	      for Bombay Office		  ...	  .71				  .................			  total	   ...	216.10994Having	decided	 that  the total  claim	 for  rehabilitationadmissible to the appellant is 216.10 lakhs for the relevantyear,  we  must	 now proceed to	 determine  whether  on	 theworking of the formula any surplus profit is available.	  Wehave  made  the following calculations in the light  of	 theprinciples laid down by us in this judgment:		       Chart V.Total profit excluding Bhupendrafactory						428.71Less notional normal depreciation(p. 428, Pt. 1)			      100.22Less income-tax payable @7 as. in the Rupee as perNote A below			      115.16Less 6% on paid-up capital	       76.06Less 4% on working capital	       26.10				       .............		       Total...317.54	 317.54			      Balance..	 111.17Less provision for rehabilitation..		115.88**				       .............				 Balance...4.71This is how we have calculated theincome-tax  payable	forthe relevant year:		   Note A.Gross profits			    428.71Less statutorydepreciation			    165.49		       ------------------Balance				    263.22Income-tax @ 7 as.in the Rupee			    115.16**Provision for rehabilitation (vide Chart V):Total from Chart IV.		    216.10Less notional normaldepreciation...			    100.22			----------------Balance...			  **115.88		       -----------------995We  ought to add that in our calculations we have not  takeninto  account  the Bhupendra Factory  because  the  relevantmaterial  for  working	out the figures in  regard  to	thisfactory is not adequate or satisfactory.  However from	suchmaterial as is available it appears that if the profits madeby  the	 said factory are included in the  calculations	 andrehabilitation	required by it is worked out, it  would	 notmaterially  affect  the'  figure  of  rehabilitation  amountdetermined by us.The result is that there is no available surplus from  whichthe  respondents can claim any bonus for the relevant  year.It  is	true  that  the	 appellant  has	 already  paid	 therespondents 20.65 lakhs as bonus for the relevant year,	 andit  is likely that it may continue to do so in future ;	 butthat is a matter which is not governed by the formula.In  view of the fact that the working of the formula  leavesno  available  surplus the appeal must be  allowed  and	 theaward  made by the tribunal set aside.	Since the  appellanthad  come to this Court for the decision of the	 larger	 andmore  important question about the revision of the  formula,we would direct that there should be no order as to costs.Appeal allowed.