PETITIONER:JNANENDRA NATH GHOSE	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF WEST BENGALDATE OF JUDGMENT:08/05/1959BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1199		  1960 SCR  (1) 126ACT:jury  Trial-Misdirection-Approver-Reliability-Corroboration-Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872)s. 133HEADNOTE:The  appellant	was  tried  on a charge	 of  murder  by	 theSessions judge with the aid of a jury.	The evidence againsthim consisted of the testimony of an approver and the  proofof  corroborative circumstances tending to connect him	withthe  crime.   The jury found the appellant  guilty  and	 theSessions  judge	 accepting  the	 verdict  sentenced  him  toimprisonment  for  life.  An appeal to the  High  Court	 wasdismissed as that Court found no misdirections in the chargeto  the	 jury.	 The  appellant	 contended  that  there	 wasmisdirection in the charge to the jury in that the jury	 wasnot  told,  as	laid down in Sarwan Singh v.  The  State  ofPunjab, [1957] S.C.R. 953, that the approver's evidence	 hadto satisfy a double test i.e., he must be a reliable witnessand  his evidence must receive sufficient corroboration	 andin  that  the corroborating evidence was not  sufficient  toconnect the appellant with the crime.Held,  that there were no misdirections in the charge.	 Theobservations  in Sarwan Singh's case that it must  be  shownthat  the approver was a reliable witness were made  in	 thespecial	 circumstances of that case where the  approver	 haddefinitely  been found to be so thoroughly discrepant as  tobe wholly unreliable.  In the present case there was nothingto  show  that the evidence of the approver was in  any	 wayunreliable.Saywan Singh v. The State of Punjab, [1957] S.C.R. 953, dis-tinguished.The Sessions judge had correctly directed the jury that	 thecorroboration  of the evidence of the approver	in  materialparticulars  must relate not only to the commission  of	 thecrime,	but  also to the evidence connecting or	 tending  toconnect	 the  accused  with the	 crime.	  The  circumstancesproved	in  the case corroborated  the	approver's  evidenceconnecting  the	 appellant with the crime.  Once  there	 wasevidence of such circumstances it was for the jury to decidewhether they were sufficient corroboration of the approver'sevidence that the appellant murdered the deceased.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 101  of1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedthe  12th  September,  1956 of the Calcutta  High  Court  inCriminal Appeal No. 19 of 1956, arising127out  of the judgment and order dated the 8th December,	1955of  the Sessions Judge, Birbhum in Sessions Trial No.  1  ofNovember 1955.H.   J. Umrigar and D. N. Mukherjee, for the appellant.K.   B.	 Bagchi,  P.  K.  Ghosh for  P.	 K.  Bose,  for	 therespondent.1959.  May 8. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byIMAM J.-The appellant was sentenced to imprisonment for lifeunder  s.  302 by the Sessions Judge of Birbhum	 who  agreedwith  the majority verdict of the jury that he	was  guilty.He  appealed  against his conviction to	 the  Calcutta	HighCourt.	 That Court being of the opinion that there  was  nomisdirection  in  the Sessions Judge's charge  to  the	jurydismissed the appeal.  Two persons Jagdish Gorain and SudhirGorain	were  also tried along with the appellant  but	wereacquitted  by  the  jury whose verdict	the  Sessions  Judgeaccepted.   The appellant appealed to the High Court  for  acertificate to appeal to this Court which was refused.	 Thepresent appeal is by special leave.According to the prosecution Sibapada Hati was married to  agirl  by  the name of Lila.  About a month previous  to	 thedate of occurrence the appellant had made a proposal to	 herthat  she  should  live with him which	was  rejected.	 Theappellant  thought that the removal of Sibapada	 Hati  wouldclear  the  way	 and improve his chance	 of  gaining  Lila'sfavour.	  Accordingly he murdered Sibapada Hati on  the	 May26, 1955.  In that murder he was assisted by Jagdish Gorain,Sudhir Gorain and the approver Sastipada Ghose.The conviction of the appellant depended on the evidence  ofthe   approver	 and  the  circumstantial   evidence   whichcorroborated  him  in connecting or tending or	connect	 theappellant  with	 the murder of the deceased  Sibapada  Hati.Unless	there was a misdirection or non-direction  amountingto a misdirection in the charge to the jury which, in  fact,had occasioned a failure of justice the jury's verdict	mustprevail and128it  cannot  be interfered with.	 The High Court was  of	 theopinion	 that  there  was no misdirection  in  the  SessionsJudge's charge to the jury and we are in agreement with	 theHigh Court.We have examined the charge to the jury.  The Sessions Judgein  dealing  with the evidence of the approver	charged	 thejury as follows:-"  Before  doing so, some established  legal  principles  asregards the approver's evidence and the confessions on whichthe prosecution has relied in the present case are  requiredto be explained to you.	 The approver is a competent witnessagainst	 an  accused  person and although  his	evidence  isstrictly admissible and a conviction is not illegal,  merelybecause it is based on approver's evidence, it is a  settledrule  of practice not to convict a person on  such  evidenceexcept	under very rare and exceptional	 circumstances,	 andusually	  substantial	corroboration	is   required.	  I,therefore, warn you, gentlemen, that it is highly  dangerousto  convict  on approver's evidence alone.   There  can,  nodoubt be a legal conviction upon the uncorroborated evidenceof an accomplice and, as already stated, the  uncorroboratedtestimony  of  an accomplice is strictly  admissible  and  aconviction based on it alone is not illegal, yet you  shouldremember,  gentlemen,  that experience teaches	us  that  anaccomplice being always an infamous person, he having thrownto  the wolves his associates and friends in order  to	savehis own skin and, though criminal, has purchased his libertyby  betrayal, his evidence must be received with very  greatcaution and it is highly dangerous to act upon his  evidenceunless it is materially corroborated.  I must also tell	 youthat this rule as to corroboration has become a settled ruleof  practice of so universal an application that it has	 nowalmost	the force and reverence of law.	 Corroboration	mustbe  as	to  the crime and the identity of each	one  of	 theaccused	 and the corroboration required must be	 independentevidence, that is reliable evidence of another kind.			    129Evidence  in  corroboration must be  independent  testimony,which  affects	the  accused by	 connecting  or	 tending  toconnect the accused with the crime.  In other words. it mustbe evidence which implicates him, that is, which conforms insome  material	particulars not only the evidence  that	 thecrime  has  been  committed  but  also	that  the   prisoner(accused) committed it.	 Corroborative evidence, you  shouldbear in mind, is evidence which shows or tends to show	thatthe  story of the accomplice that the accused committed	 thecrime  is  true.   The	corroboration  need  not  be  directevidence that the accused committed the crime.	It would  besufficient  if it is merely circumstantial evidence  of	 hisconnection  with the crime.  The corroboration	in  materialparticulars  must be such as to connect or identify each  ofthe  accused  with  the offence.  In  the  present  case,  aprevious statement of an approver, viz., the confession	 hasbeen  made exhibit before you, but that previous  statement,you  are  further to bear in mind,  cannot  corroborate	 hislatter	statement, viz., the statements that have been	madeby him before you in this Court.In dealing with the question what amount of corroboration isrequired    you,    gentlemen,	 must	 exercise    carefuldiscrimination and look at all the surrounding circumstancesin order to arrive at a conclusion whether the facts deposedto by the approver Sastipada are borne out by those  circum-stances.  "Mr.  Umrigar  on  behalf of the	 appellant  urged  that	 theaforesaid direction given by Sessions Judge to the jury	 wasnot  sufficient.   The	jury should have been  told  (1)  inaccordance  with the decision of this Court in the  case  ofSarwan Singh v. The State of Punjab (1) that the  approver'sevidence has to satisfy a double test.	It must show that heis  a  reliable	 witness  and  that  his  evidence  receivessufficient  corroboration,  (2)	 that  the  evidence  of  anapprover must be confirmed not only as to the  circumstancesof  the crime but also as to the identity of  the  prisoner.The corroboration(1)  [1957] S.C.R. 953.17130ought to consist in circumstances that affects the  identityof  the party accused.	Reliance was placed on the  case  ofThe  King  v. Baskerville (1), (3) that	 the  circumstantialevidence  corroborating the approver was not  sufficient  toconnect	 the appellant with the murder of the  deceased	 and(4)   that  on	similar	 corroboration	of  the	  approver'stestimony  the	accused Jagdish Gorain had  been  acquitted.There  was no real distinction between the case	 of  JagdishGorain and the appellant.It is true that in Sarwan Singh's case this Court had  held," The appreciation of an approver's evidence has to  satisfya  double test.	 It must show that he is a reliable  witnessand that his evidence receives sufficient corroboration	 andthat  is a test which is common to all witnesses.   If	thistest is satisfied the second test which still remains to  beapplied	 is  that  the	approver's  evidence  must   receivesufficient corroboration.  This test is special to the casesof  weak  or tainted evidence like that	 of  the  approver."These observations were made in the special circumstances ofthe case which this Court was deciding when dealing with thecase of Sarwan Singh.  This Court went on to observe, "	 Theargument  that the character of the approver's evidence	 hasnot   been   considered	 by  the  High	 Court	 cannot	  becharacterised  as  merely  academic or	theoretical  in	 thepresent	 case because, as we shall presently point out,	 theevidence of the approver is so thoroughly discrepant that itwould  be  difficult  to  resist  the  conclusion  that	 theapprover in the present case is a wholly unreliable witness.Indeed	it may be legitimate to point out that	the  learnedJudges	of  the High Court have	 themselves  criticised	 theevidence  of  the approver in dealing with  the	 prosecutioncase  against Gurdial Singh and have ultimately	 found	thatthe account given by the approver is unreliable and,  thoughthere was circumstantial evidence which raised an amount  ofsuspicion against Gurdial Singh, that would not be enough tosustain his conviction.	 It seems to us that if it was foundthat  the  approver's  account against one  of	the  accusedpersons was wholly discrepant, this(1)  (1916) 2 K.B.D. 658,131finding	 itself	 should	 inevitably have led  the  court  toscrutinise  his	 evidence in respect of	 the  other  accusedpersons with greater caution." It is clear therefore that inthe  special circumstances of the case of Sarwan  Singh	 theapprover  had been found to be a wholly unreliable  witness.It  is important to observe that this Court stated that	 theapprover's evidence must show that he is a reliable  witnessand  that  is  the test which is common	 to  all  witnesses.Nothing	 has been shown to us in this case, as was shown  inSarwan Singh's case that apart from the approver's testimonyin  the present case being regarded as tainted evidence	 hisevidence as it stood was in any way unreliable.	 Indeed, theSessions  Judge went to the length of telling the jury	thatalthough an approver's evidence is strictly admissible and aconviction  is not illegal merely because it is based on  anapprover's  evidence, it was a settled rule of practice	 notto convict a person on such evidence except under very	rareand  exceptional circumstances and usually substantial	cor-roboration was required.  The jury could not have been	moreclearly	 warned about the danger of acting on an  approver'sevidence.  In other words, the jury were told not to convictthe appellant on the approver's evidence unless his evidencehad   been  substantially  corroborated.   Apart  from	 thequestion of corroboration of the approver's evidence nothingwas suggested to us or to the High Court in what respect theapprover's   evidence  was  unreliable	after  testing	 hisevidence  in the same way as one would test the evidence  ofany witness for the prosecution in a criminal case.  In	 ouropinion,  the  decision	 in  Sarwan  Singh's  case  can	  bedistinguished in the present case.  Obviously, it was  neversuggested  that	 the approver's evidence in  this  case	 wasentirely unreliable, if his evidence was tested in the	sameway as the evidence of any prosecution witness in a criminaltrial.	 We cannot accept the submission made on  behalf  ofthe  appellant	that  the charge to  the  jury	is  vitiatedbecause	 of  the decision of this Court	 in  Sarwan  Singh'scase.132As to the second submission made by Mr. Umrigar it is to  beremembered that in Baskerville's case the Court of  CriminalAppeal	in England after discussing various  authorities  onthe subject came to the following conclusion :-" We hold that evidence in corroboration must be independenttestimony which affects the accused by connecting or tendingto  connect him with the crime.	 In other words, it must  beevidence  which implicates him, that is, which	confirms  insome  material	particular not only the	 evidence  that	 thecrime  has  been  committed,  but  also	 that  the  prisonercommitted  it.	The test applicable to determine the  natureand extent of the corroboration is thus the same whether thecase  falls  within the rule of practice at  common  law  orwithin	that  class of offenses for which  corroboration  isrequired   by  statute.	  The  language	 of   the   statute,implicates  the	 accused, " compendiously  incorporates	 thetest applicable at common law in the rule of practice.	 Thenature of the corroboration will necessarily vary  accordingto the particular circumstances of the offence charged.	  Itwould  be in high degree dangerous to attempt  to  formulatethe   kind   of	 evidence  which  would	  be   regarded	  ascorroboration, except to say that corroborative evidence  isevidence which shows or tends to show that the story of	 theaccomplice that the accused committed the crime is true, notmerely	that the crime has been committed, but that  it	 wascommitted by the accused."  The	corroboration need not be direct evidence  that	 theaccused	 committed  the	 crime; it is sufficient  if  it  ismerely	circumstantial evidence of his connection  with	 thecrime.In  the present case the jury had been clearly	directed  bythe  Sessions  Judge  that corroborative  evidence  must  beevidence which implicates the accused, i.e., which  confirmsin some material particulars not only the evidence that	 thecrime  had  been committed but also that the  appellant	 hadcommitted  it.	 The  Sessions Judge told the  jury  that  "Corroborative133evidence,  you should bear in mind, is evidence which  showsor  tends to show that the story of the accomplice that	 theaccused committed the crime is true.  The corroboration neednot be direct evidence that the accused committed the crime.It is sufficient if it is merely circumstantial evidence  ofhis  connection	 with  the  crime.   The  corroboration	  inmaterial particulars must be such as to connect or  identifyeach of the accused with the offence.  " It seems to us thatthe Sessions Judge directed the jury in accordance with	 theprinciple  laid	 down in Baskerville's case and	 no  seriousobjection  can be taken to the manner in which the  SessionsJudge  directed the jury in this respect.  The moment  thereis corroborative evidence which connects or tends to connectan  accused  with  the	crime  such  corroborative  evidencerelates	 to the identity of the accused in  connection	withthat  crime.   It is the approver's evidence  which  is	 thedirect evidence of the crime.  There should be corroborationin  material particulars not only concerning the  crime	 butcorroboration  of  the approver's story	 by  evidence  whichconnects or tends to connect an accused with the crime.	  Itis this corroborative evidence which determines the mind  ofthe  Court or a jury that the approver's evidence  that	 theaccused committed the crime is true.As to the 3rd Submission made on behalf of the appellant thefollowing  circumstances  were established by  the  evidencewhich were accepted by the jury:1.   There  was	 a motive for the appellant to	commit	the,crime, that is to say, his immoral proposal to Lila, wife ofthe deceased.2.   On the 25th of May, 1955, the appellant came to  Lila'shouse and had a talk with the deceased.3.   On the 26th of May, 1955, in the morning the  appellantalso came to the house and talked with the deceased.   Lateron that very day a little after sunset the appellant came tothe house and asked the deceased to go for a walk with	him.The deceased did so.4.   Thereafter	 the appellant was seen going  with  JagdishGorain and the deceased-by Brojeswari and134Lila  towards  the north of the village after 5	 p.m.  whilethey were bathing in Talbona tank.5.   According	to  the	 approver  at  the  time  that	the,deceased  was stabbed by the appellant he had  sustained  aninjury on the dorsum of his left palm.	The medical evidenceestablished that the appellant had an almost healed up ulcerI  inch	 in  length  on the left side of  the  palm  at	 itsposterior surface one inch below the wrist joint and anotherhealed up ulcer 1/3 inch in length on the left thumb at	 theposterior surface and that these injuries could be caused bya sharp cutting weapon like a knife.6.   As	 it  had  become  night and  the  deceased  had	 notreturned, Lila's mother Brojeswari and. her uncle RadharamanSadhu  searched for him.  They went to the club-house  wherethe  appellant	and his two co-accused	Jagdish	 Gorain	 andSudhir	Gorain and the approver used to associate with	eachother.	 When  enquiries  were made from  the  appellant  byBrojeswari  he first replied that the deceased had not	gonewith  him  and	that  he did not  know	anything  about	 hiswhereabouts.   When he was remainded that it was he who	 hadtaken  the  deceased for a walk which he  was  denying,	 theappellant  replied that the deceased went with him upto	 thecanal  towards	north  of  the village, but  as	 he  felt  aheadache  he  came  away and it was  not  possible  for	 theappellant to give any news about the deceased's whereabouts.The  above-mentioned  circumstances either  individually  orcollectively  may fall short of proving that  the  appellantcommitted  the	murder of the deceased.	  Indeed,  the	HighCourt	was   of  the  opinion	that   these   circumstancesindependent of the direct evidence of the approver would notbe sufficient to induce any reasonable person to come to theconclusion  that the appellant had committed the crime.	  Asalready	 stated,  however, the approver's  evidence  is	 thedirect	evidence  which establishes that the  appellant	 had\murdered  the	deceased.   The	 jury  had  to	decide	 forthemselves  whether the above-mentioned	 circumstances	weresufficient corroborative evidence to satisfy			    135them  that  the	 approver's  evidence  that  the   appellantmurdered  the deceased was true.  It is, however,  urged  byMr.  Umrigar  that  the	 circumstances	mentioned  were	 notcircumstances corroborating the evidence of the approver  inmaterial particulars which would connect or tend to  connectthe  appellant with the crime.	In our opinion, at least  inone  circumstance  the corroboration is in a  very  materialparticular  connecting or tending to connect  the  appellantwith  the  crime.  The approver's evidence  that  while	 theappellant  was	murdering the deceased he  had	received  aninjury on the dorsum of his left palm is corroborated by themedical	 evidence.   It was, however, pointed out  that	 themedical	 evidence does not show that the injury was  on	 thedorsum	of  the	 left palm.  In our  opinion,  there  is  nosubstance  in  this submission because the first  injury  isdescribed  as  one  on	the left side  of  the-palm  at	 itsposterior  surface 1 inch below the wrist joint, that is  tosay,  the  dorsum of the left palm.  The  second  injury  isclearly on the left thumb at its posterior surface which  isalso  consistent with the evidence of the approver that	 thedorsum of the left palm was injured.  The jury were entitledto  accept  this evidence as sufficient corroboration  in  amaterial  particular connecting the appellant or tending  toconnect	 him with the crime.  In addition, the	circumstancethat it was the appellant who had called for the deceased  alittle	after sunset and had taken him away  and  thereafterwas  seen going along towards the north of the village	withthe  deceased and that thereafter the deceased was not	seenalive  was one upon which the jury could rely in  coming  tothe  conclusion that it connected or tended to	connect	 theappellant   with  the  crime.	The  appellant's   pretendedignorance of the whereabouts of the deceased that very nightand  his ultimate admission that he had taken  the  deceasedtowards	 the  north of the village was also  a	circumstanceupon  which  the jury could rely as  inconsistent  with	 hisinnocence.  In our. opinion, all the circumstances  referredto  above  were sufficient corroboration of  the  approver'sevidence connecting or tending to connect the appellant with136the crime and accordingly the, approver's evidence that	 theappellant did commit the crime was true.As  to	the 4th submission that although there	was  similarcorroboration  of  the approver's evidence  against  JagdishGorain	but  he had been acquitted by the jury	although  noreal  distinction  between  his case and  the  case  of	 theappellant arose is unsound as, in our opinion, the two casesare not comparable.  In the first place, there was no motivefor  Jagdish  Gorain to commit the murder.   In	 the  secondplace, the injury which Jagdish received was while he caughtthe  knife in the hand of the appellant saying "  what	haveyou  done?" The approver's evidence therefore rather  tendedto show that he tried to prevent the appellant from  furtherstabbing the deceased.	These circumstances may have inducedthe  jury to make a distinction between the case of  JagdishGorain	and  the  appellant.  It was for  the  jury  to	 saywhether	  they	regarded  the  circumstantial  evidence	  assufficient to connect or tending to connect Jagdish with thecrime.	 It would seem that on the approver's  evidence	 thejury   may   well  have	 regarded   the	  circumstances	  asinsufficient corroboration to connect or tending to  connectJagdish Gorain with the crime.In our opinion, it cannot be said with any good reason	thatthere was any defect in the charge to the jury delivered  bythe Sessions Judge which would justify us in saying that theverdict of the jury was vitiated.  The appeal is accordinglydismissed.Appeal dismissed.137