PETITIONER:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, BOMBAY CIRCLE II	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE NATIONAL SYNDICATE, BOMBAY.DATE OF JUDGMENT:01/11/1960BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.DAS, S.K.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR  398		  1961 SCR  (2) 229 CITATOR INFO : D	    1965 SC  33	 (6) R	    1971 SC2274	 (7)ACT:Income-Tax--Business   carried	out  for  a  part   of	 theyear--Computation--If  must  be for the	 whole	year--IndianIncome-Tax Act, 1922-(11 of 1922) s. 10(2)(Vii).HEADNOTE:The  National Syndicate, a Bombay firm, acquired on  January11,  1945, a tailoring business as a going concern  for	 Rs.89,321	which  included the consideration  paid	 for  sewingmachines  and  a motor lorry.  Soon after the  purchase	 therespondent  found  it difficult to  continue  the  business,therefore  closed  its business in  August,  1945.   BetweenAugust 16, 1945, and February 14, 1946, sewing machines	 andthe motor lorry were sold at a loss.  The respondent  closedits  account  books on February 28, 1946,  showing  the	 twolosses and writing them off.For  the assessment year 1946-47, the. respondent claimed  adeduction under s. 10(2)(Vii) of the Indian Income Tax	Act.The  Appellate Tribunal held that the sales of machines	 andthe motor lorry were made in the course of the winding up ofthe assessee's business after the business had been  stoppedand  that,  therefore, the deduction could  not	 be  claimedunder  s. 10(2)(Vii).  Respondent moved the High  Court	 andobtained an order under s. 66(2) of the Income-Tax Act,	 andthe following two questions were referred :-"  (1) Whether the Tribunal was justified in law in  holdingthat  the petitioner had carried on its business  only	tilltwenty	eight day of August, One Thousand Nine	Hundred	 andForty Five ?(2)  Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, theIncome	Tax Appellate Tribunal was justified in law  in	 notallowing  the sum of Rs. 41,998 (Rupees	 forty-one  thousandnine  hundred and ninety eight) on sale of machines and	 Rs.3,700 (Rupees three thousand and seven hundred) on the	saleof  lorry  as  a  deduction from the  total  income  of	 theapplicant ?"The  High Court answered the first question in the  affirma-tive, and the second question in the negative.The Commissioner of Income-tax questioned the finding of theHigh  Court and came up in appeal by special leave and	con-tended	that an allowance could only be claimed if  sale  ofmachines,  etc.	 took  place when  the	business  was  beingcontinued and not if the business had come to a close.	 Therespondent  on the other hand submitted that  s.  10(2)(Vii)would be applicable230in  a  case where the business continued for a part  of	 theaccount year, even though the sale of machinery, plant, etc.took  place  after the closure of the  business	 during	 thecourse of the account year.Held,  that  if	 the profits or gains of a  business  for  aparticular  year are to be taxed, they must be computed	 forthe  whole year taking into account losses  incurred  duringthe same year, provided that the business had been " carriedon by the assessee " ; the building, machinery or plant	 hadbeen " used for the purpose of the business "; the sale etc.had taken place during the year of account, and the loss hadbeen brought into the books of the assessee and written off.There  is  no other condition to be found expressly  in	 thesection	 or  in	 the Act.  It is  nowhere  stated  that	 thebusiness of the assessee should have been carried on for thewhole year, or that the machinery or plant should have	beenused  for the whole of the accounting period.  There are  nowords which would show that, if the assessee worked only fora  part	 of  the year and then sold out, the  loss  that  heincurred was not a business loss, or that he must pay tax onthe small profit that he might have made, and bear the	lossin addition.The Liquidators of Pursa Limited v. Commissioner of  Income-Tax, Bihar, [1954] S.C.R. 767, Commissioner of Income-tax v.Express Newspapers Ltd. (1960) 40 I.T.R. 38, distinguished.Indian Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. v. Commissioner of  Incometax,Bengal, (1943) 11 I.T.R. 328, Commissioner of Income-tax  v.Shaw Wallace & Co., Ltd., (1932) L.R. 59 I.A. 206,  referredto.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 280 of 1959.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedthe  22nd August, 1956, of the former Bombay High  Court  inIncome-tax Reference No. 17 of 1956.B.   Ganapathy Iyer and D. Gupta, for the Appellant.Sanat  P. Mehta, S. N. Andley, J. B.  Dadachanji,  RameshwarNath and P. L. Vohra, for the Respondent.1960.  November 1. The Judgment of the Court' was  deliveredbyHIDAYATULLAH J.-The Commissioner of Incometax, Bombay CircleII,  has  filed this appeal after obtaining  special  leave,against	 the  judgment	of the High Court of  Bombay  in  anIncome-tax reference231under  s.  66(2)  of  the  Income-tax  Act.   The   NationalSyndicate,  Bombay  (referred  to in this  judgment  as	 therespondent)  was a firm consisting of three partners.	Thisfirm acquired on January 11, 1945, a tailoring business as agoing  concern	from  one Chambal Singh	 for  Rs.  89,321/-.Included  in  this  amount was the  consideration  paid	 forsewing machines (Rs. 72,000) and a motor lorry (Rs.  8,000).The   assessment  concerns  the	 year  of  account  of	 therespondent,  January  11, 1945 to February  28,	 1946.	 Thebusiness  of  the  respondent was to  prepare  garments	 forGovernment  departments,  and  during the  war	years,	thisappears	 to  have been a profitable  business.	 Immediatelyafter  the respondent acquired this business, the  last	 warcame  to  an end, and the respondent found it  difficult  tocontinue  the business.	 It, therefore, closed its  businessin  August, 1945.  Between August 16, 1945 and February	 14,1946,  sewing  machines were sold at a loss of	Rs.  41,998.The motor lorry was also sold on February 14,1946, at a lossof  Rs. 3,700.	The respondent closed its account  books  onFebruary  28, 1946, showing the two losses and writing	themoff.For  the assessment year, 1946.47, the respondent claimed  adeduction  of Rs. 45,698 under s. 10(2)(vii) of	 the  IndianIncome-tax  Act.   The Income-tax  Officer  disallowed	thisdeduction,  holding that the loss was of a  capital  nature,and that inasmuch as the business of the respondent was	 notcarried	  on  after  August  1945  s.  10(2)(vii)  was	 notapplicable.   This order of assessment was confirmed by	 theAppellate  Assistant  Commissioner, who also held  that	 theloss represented capital loss, as the machines and the motorlorry  were  sold  after the closure of	 the  business.	  Onappeal,	 the Appellate Tribunal, Bombay, also confirmed	 theorder,	holding	 that the sales of machines  and  the  motorlorry  were  made  in the course of the winding	 up  of	 theassessee's business after the business had been stopped, andthat, therefore, the deduction could not be claimed under s.10(2Xvii).The respondent asked the Tribunal to refer the questions  oflaw arising from its order, but the request was refused.  Itthen moved the High Court, and232obtained an order under s. 66(2) of the Income-tax Act,	 andthe following two questions were referred:"  (1) Whether the Tribunal was justified in law in  holdingthat  the Petitioner had carried on its business  only	tilltwenty-eighth  day of August one thousand nine	hundred	 andforty-five ?(2)  Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, theIncome-tax  Appellate Tribunal was justified in law  in	 notallowing  the sum of Rs. 41,998 (Rupees	 forty-one  thousandnine  hundred and ninety eight) on sale of machines and	 Rs,3,700 (Rupees three thousand and seven hundred) on the	saleof  lorry  as  a  deduction from the  total  income  of	 theapplicant?"The   High  Court  answered  the  first	 question   in	 theaffirmative,  holding that there was evidence on  which	 theTribunal  could reach the conclusion that the business	had,in  fact, been continued only till August 28, 1945.  On	 thesecond question, the High Court was of the opinion that	 thebusiness  having been carried on for at least a part of	 theaccount	 year,	s.  10(2)(vii)	was  applicable,  and  that,therefore, this allowance had to be made under that  clause.The  High  Court, therefore, answered the  question  in	 thenegative.  The High Court refused to grant a certificate  toappeal	to  this Court, but the Commissioner  of  Income-taxapplied for, and obtained special leave, and this appeal hasbeen filed.Before	we deal with the question whether s. 10(2) (vii)  ofthe Indian Income-tax Act is applicable to the facts of thiscase, we may mention that during the course of the  argumentMr.  S. P. Mehta, counsel for the respondent, sought to	 re-open  the  first question.  According to him, there  was  noevidence on which the Tribunal or the High Court could reachthe conclusion that the business of the respondent had	cometo a close in August 1945.  We, however, did not permit	 himto  raise this contention, partly because, in  our  opinion,such a contention could not be allowed to be raised at	thisstage in an appeal by the Department and partly because,  inour  opinion,  there were adequate materials  for  the	HighCourt to have based its conclusion.  Inasmuch as we were  inagreement			    233with the High Court on the question of the applicability  ofs. 10(2)(vii), we also felt that no useful purpose would  beserved	in  examining  the matter to find  out	whether	 thebusiness  had,	in fact, closed on August 28,  1945  or	 hadcontinued till the end of the account year.We   are   really  concerned  in  this	 appeal	  with	 theinterpretation of s. 10(2)(vii) and its applicability to thefacts  of the case.  It may be assumed for the	purposes  ofthis  case  that the business did, in fact,  close  down  onAugust	28,1945, even though some in comings  and  outgoingswere taking place for the rest of the year and the books  ofaccount were not finally closed till February 28, 1946.	 TheCommissioner  contends	that  an  allowance  could  only  beclaimed	 if the sale of machines etc., took place  when	 thebusiness  was  being continued and not if the  business	 hadcome to a close.  The respondent, on the other hand, submitsthat  s. 10(2)(vii) would be applicable in a case where	 thebusiness  continued  for a part of the	account	 year,	eventhough	the  sale of the machinery, plant etc.,	 took  placeafter  the closure of the business during the course of	 theaccount year.Section 10(2)(vii) reads as follows:"  10(2).   Such profits or gains shall	 be  computed  aftermaking the following allowances, namely:-(vii)  in respect of any such building, machinery  or  plantwhich has been sold or discarded or demolished or destroyed,the  amount by which the written down value thereof  exceedsthe  amount for which the building, machinery or  plant,  asthe case may be, is actually sold or its scrap value:Provided  that	such amount is actually written off  in	 thebooks of the assessee:".The Commissioner emphasises the word " such " in the clause,and  states  that this takes us back to cl. (iv)  where	 thewords " used for the purposes of the business occur.  It is,therefore, contended that if the business itself comes to anend before the sale takes place, the sale is not during	 thecontinuance of the30234business but is during the course of the winding up ,of	 thebusiness, and the condition precedent to the application  ofs.  10 is that the business must be is carried on "  by	 theperson	claiming  the benefit of sub-s. (2).   Reference  inthis  context  is made to the first sub-section	 of  s.	 10,where  it is provided that the tax 'shall be payable  by  anassessee   under  the  head  "	Pro.  fits  and	  gains	  ofbusiness........  in respect of the profits or gains of	 anybusiness, etc., ' carried on by him'." The Department reliesupon a decision of this Court reported in The Liquidators ofPursa Limited v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Bihar (1).	 Therespondent  also relies upon the same ruling,  and  contendsthat it supports the case set up by it.	 The respondent alsorelies	on  a recent decision of the Madras  High  Court  inCommissioner of Income-tax v. Express Newspapers Ltd. (2).These two cases were decided under the second proviso to  s.10(2)(vii) before its amendment in 1949.  The second provisoreads:" Provided further that where the amount for which any	suchbuilding,  machinery  or plant is sold	whether	 during	 thecontinuance of the business or after the cessation  thereof,exceeds	 the  written down value, so much of the  excess  asdoes not exceed the difference between the original cost andthe written down value shall be deemed to be profits of	 theprevious year in which the sale took place."The  words  underlined above were inserted by s. 11  of	 theTaxation  Laws	(Extension to Merged States  and  Amendment)Act, 1949.In  both the cases, the business had admittedly closed	downbefore	the sales took place, and it was held, applying	 theproviso	 as it was before the amendment of 1949,  that	suchreceipts were not taxable.  The amendment now renders  thesecases  obsolete.   Reliance is, however, placed	 on  certainobservations  in these oases, and it is contended  that	 thesame  reasoning	 must be applied to a case of loss as  to  acase  of  profits.  We shall, therefore,  refer	 briefly  tothem.In  The	 Liquidators  of Pursa Limited	v.  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax, Bihar (1), the year of, assessment			    235was  1945-46,  which corresponded to  the  accounting  year,October	 1, 1943 to September 30, 1944.	 Pursa Limited	weremanufacturers  of sugar, and sold the business on August  9,1943, including buildings, machinery and plant but excludingmanufactured sugar worth about Rs. 6,00,000.  This sugar wassold till June, 1944; but throughout the accounting  period,the  machinery,	 plant or buildings were  not  used.   PursaLimited	 went into voluntary liquidation on June  20,  1945.In the sale of the buildings, machinery and plant there	 wasan  excess, such as is described in the second proviso,	 andthat  amount  of excess was sought to be  taxed.   This	 wasnegatived by this Court on two grounds.	 They were (a): " Ifthe  machinery	and plant have not at all been used  at	 anytime during the accounting year no allowance can be  claimedunder clause (vii) in respect of them and the second provisoalso  does  not come into operation "; and (b)	"  that	 theintention of the company was to discontinue its business andthe  sale  of  the machinery and plant was  a  step  in	 theprocess	 of  winding up of its business.  The  sale  of	 themachinery  and plant was not an operation in furtherance  ofthe business carried on by the Company but was a realisationof  its assets in the process of gradual winding up  of	 itsbusiness  which	 eventually  culminated	 in  the   voluntaryliquidation of the Company".Counsel	  differ  as  to  the  ratio  of  the	case.	 TheCommissioner  contends	that  the ratio	 is  that  no  sale,whether	 at  a	loss, or at a profit can  be  said  to	fallwithin, respectively, cl. (vii) or the second proviso, if ittakes  place  after the closure of business and	 during	 theprocess	 of winding up, while the respondent  contends	thatthe  real  ratio  was  that  during  the  account  year	 themachinery  and plant were not at all used.  No	doubt,	thisCourt did give two reasons for its decision, but the primaryconsideration  was the second ratio quoted above.   This  isclear  from  the following passage towards the	end  of	 thejudgment:"  Even	 if the sale of the stock of sugar  be	regarded  ascarrying on of business by the Company and not a realisationof its assets with a view to winding up, the236machinery  or  plant not being used  during  the  accountingperiod at all and in any event not having had any connectionwith  the carrying on of that limited  business	 during	 theaccounting year, section 10(2)(vii) can have no	 applicationto the sale of any machinery or plant." Learned Counsel for the respondent relies upon the  passagelast  quoted, and urges that where the buildings,  machineryor plant have been used for a part of the accounting period,the ruling cannot apply, and draws attention to the words  "at all " used twice in the judgment.  He argues that if	 themachinery  or  plant  had  been	 used  for  a  part  of	 theaccounting  year, the result would have been different.	  Itis not possible to say how the case would have been  decidedin  the	 changed circumstances, but it is obvious  that	 thecase  is  distinguishable  on more  than  one  ground.	 Theproviso	 is  in a language different from cl.  (vii),  as  afiction is introduced and such ' profits' are taxed to	takeback what had been given away for depreciation which did notreally take place.  But more of it later.Express	 Newspapers Ltd. case (1) is  also  distinguishable.In that case, the Free Press of India (Madras) Ltd. resolvedon  August 31, 1946, to transfer the right of  printing	 andpublishing  its daily newspapers to Express Newspapers	Ltd.They  rented out their machinery, etc., to the new  Company,which  took  possession on September 1, 1946.  The  year  ofaccount	 ended	on December 31, 1946.  The Free	 Press	wentinto  voluntary	 liquidation  on October  31,  1946  and  onNovember  1,  1946, its building, machinery and	 plant	weresold  to  the  new Company at a	 price	which  exceeded	 thewritten	 down value by Rs. 6,08,666 made up of Rs.  2,14,090being the excess of the original cost price over the writtendown  value,  and  Rs. 3,94,576 being the  excess  over	 theoriginal  cost	price.	 One  question,	 among	others,	 waswhether the second proviso to s. 10 (2)(vii). applied.	 TheMadras High Court ob. served :(1)  (1960) 40 I.T.R. 38.			    237"......	 in the present case the sale of the machinery	tookplace  during the year of account, and it was used  by	FreePress  Company for at least a part of the year.	 This  wouldbe sufficient to attract liability.. The learned counsel forthe  assessee is on a firmer ground when he  contended	thatthe  sale  being made in the process of winding	 up  of	 thecompany	 section  10(2)(vii)  will not	apply.	 The  secondproviso	 to section 10(2)(vii) would be invoked	 only  wherethe  sale was one made in the course of business carried  onby the predecessor.  Where the sale is a closing down  sale,that profit could not be brought to tax.  In Liquidators  ofPursa  Ltd. V.	Commissioner of Income-tax (1), the  SupremeCourt  held that where in a case the sale of  machinery	 andplant  was  a  step  in the process of	winding	 up  of	 itsbusiness,  the	intention  of the  company  having  been  todiscontinue the business, such sale was not an operation  infurtherance  of the business carried on by the company,	 butwas  only  a  realisation of its assets in  the	 process  ofgradual	  winding  up  of  its	business  which	  eventuallyterminated in the voluntary liquidation of the company,	 andprovision  of  section 10(2)(vii) would not apply.   In	 thepresent	 case, the formation of the new company was to	takeover  the  business of the old company.	 The  lease  of	 themachinery,  the	 transfer  of  the right  to  carry  on	 thebusiness of publishing newspapers, and the ultimate sale  ofthe  machinery were part of the same scheme for	 winding  upthe   Free  Press  Company.   The  sale	 of  machinery	 wasundoubtedly  a	closing	 down sale  and	 the  profit  earnedtherein	 could	not  come in for  assessment  under  section10(2)(vii)."These  two  cases  deal	 with  the  second  proviso  to	  s.10(2Xvii).   Clause  (vii) deals with loss  and	 the  secondproviso,  with	profits;  but the proviso is  not  an  exactcounterpart  of	 the clause.  The proviso enacts  a  fictionwhich  the main clause does not enact.	The reason  for	 theintroduction  of  the fiction in the proviso appears  to  bethis:  Loss in business may take place in various ways.	  Ifthe business requires more to run it than it produces, thereis loss.  Loss in(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 767.238business  may  also take place if the equipment	 with  whichbusiness  is  done  is lost, destroyed,	 or  depreciates  orsuffers	 in  value.  The law takes note of  the	 loss,	and,provided it has been computed and brought into the books  ofthe  business  and  written  off, it can  be  claimed  as  adeduction.    Profit  in  business,  on	 the   other   hand,primarily,  means profit earned in the business.  But if  anallowance  had	been claimed as depreciation  and  had	beenallowed, and if the sale of the building, machinery or planton  which  depreciation allowance was claimed in  the  past,shows  that  there  was, in fact,  no  depreciation  but  anaccretion  in  value, the law deems that a profit  has	beenmade.	The  fiction  thus converts that which	may  not  bestrictly  profit of the business in a narrow sense,  into  aprofit	for  purposes  of assessment.  Formerly,  it  was  amatter of doubt whether even this accretion could be  deemeda  profit  when the business had closed down; but  now,	 thelegislature  has  amended  the	law  by	 saying	 that	thisfictional profit must be brought to tax irrespective of	 thefact  that the sale took place " during the  continuance  ofthe business or after the cessation thereof" But it is to benoticed	 that  no such amendment was made in  cl.  (vii)  toexclude	 loss over buildings, machinery or plant  after	 theclospre	 of  the  business.   It  is  thus  clear  that	 theprinciples which govern the proviso cannot be used to governthe  main clause, because profit or loss arise in  differentways in business.  The two rulings do not, therefore,  applyto the facts here.We must thus restrict ourselves to the scheme of the  IndianIncome-tax  Act and the clause in question.  The  scheme  ofthe  Income-tax	 Act, as was pointed out by Lord  Porter  inIndian Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of	 Income-tax,Bengal (1), is that income. tax is assessed and paid in	 thenext  succeeding year upon the results of the  year  before.It  is the income of the previous year which is	 brought  totax  in	 the succeeding year, which is called  the  year  ofassessment.   For  the	purpose of  assessment,	 the  IndianIncome Tax Act divides the sources of income, profits(1)  [1943] 11 I.T.R. 328, 336.			    239and  gains  into  six heads in s. 6. The fourth	 head  is  "Profits	 and  gains of business, profession or	vocation  ".Sections 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 12A and 12B lay down' the rules ofcomputation under the different heads.	Profits and gains ofbusiness  are dealt with in s. 10.  The first subjection  ofthat section provides:" The tax shall be payable by an assessee under,, the head IProfits and gains of business....' in respect of the  profitor gains of any business...... carried on by him."In  Commissioner of Income-tax v. Shaw Wallace &  Co.,	Ltd.(1),  it was pointed out by the Judicial Committee that	 thewords " carried on by him " were " an essential	 constituentof that which is to produce the taxable income; it is to  bethe  profit  earned  by a process of production	 ".  It	 wasfurther	 pointed out that " business " had been	 defined  inthe  Income-tax	 Act  to " include any	trade,	commerce  ormanufacture,  or any adventure or concern in the  nature  oftrade,	commerce or manufacture ", and that it involved "  afundamental idea of the continuous exercise of an activity."It  was,  however,  pointed  out that  the  source  was	 notnecessarily  one  which	 was  expected	to  be	continuouslyproductive,  but  one whose object was the production  of  adefinite return, excluding anything in the nature of a	merewindfall,  and that 'capital' in most cases was hardly	morethan an element in the process of production.We  agree  with	 this analysis of the  Income-tax  Act,	 andindeed,	 these observations were also applied in  the  PursaLimited	 case  (2), to which we have already  referred.	  Itthus follows that capital may, in the process of production,depreciate, get used up or lost.  The Income-tax Act,  whiletaxing	income, profits or gains, takes note of,  and  makesallowance for such eventualities.If the profits or gains of a business for a particular	yearare  to be taxed, they must be computed for the	 whole	yeartaking	into account losses incurred during the	 same  year.Now,  the first condition precedent appears to be  that	 thebusiness must have been(1) (1932) L.R. 59 I.A. 206.(2) [1954] S.C.R. 767.240"  carried on by the assessee ". This is to be found in	 thefirst  sub-section of s. 10.  The second condition  is	thatthe  building, machinery or plant must have been " used	 forthe purposes of the business ". This is to be found in	of.(iv)  of  the  second  sub-section  of	s.  10.	  The  thirdcondition  is  that the sale etc., should have	taken  placeduring the year of account.  This follows from the nature ofthe  tax which is assessed and levied on the profits of	 theworking of the previous year.  The fourth condition is	thatthe  loss  should have been brought into the  books  of	 theassessee  and  written off.  This is provided by  the  firstproviso.  There is no other condition to be found  expresslyin the section or in the Act.  It is nowhere stated that thebusiness of the assessee should have been carried on for thewhole year, or that the machinery or plant should have	beenused  for the whole of the accounting period.  There are  nowords which would show that, if the assessee works only	 fora  part	 of the year and then sells out, the  loss  that  heincurs	is not a business loss, or that he must pay  tax  onthe small profit that he might have made, and bear the	losein  addition.  We have shown above that the case  of  profitreferred  to  in the second proviso stands  on	a  differentfooting altogether, since profit and loss arise in differentways.	 The   law  has	 thus  treated	the   two   subjectsdifferently, and the legislature has amended the proviso butnot the clause.In  view of what we have said above, we are of opinion	thatthe  judgment  of  the High Court was  correct	in  all	 thecircumstances  of  this	 case,	and  this  appeal  must	  bedismissed with costs.		     Appeal dismissed.241