PETITIONER:ANANT CHINTAMAN LAGU	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:14/12/1959BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.DAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1960 AIR  500		  1960 SCR  (2) 460 CITATOR INFO : F	    1963 SC  74	 (38) RF	    1970 SC1321	 (16) F	    1972 SC1331	 (32) D	    1984 SC1622	 (156,170) R	    1988 SC1011	 (9,27)ACT:Criminal  Law-Murder  by  poisoning-Circumstantial  evidence-Poison not detected in body of deceased-Conduct of accused,both before and after-Conviction for murder.HEADNOTE:At  the trial of a person for murder by	 alleged  poisoning,the fact of death by poisoning is provable by circumstantialevidence,  notwithstanding that the autopsy as well  as	 thechemical  analysis fail to disclose any poison;	 though	 thecause  of death may not appear to be established  by  directevidence,   the	  medical  evidence  of	 experts   and	 thecircumstances  of the case may be sufficient to	 infer	thatthe  death must be the result of the administration  to	 thevictim	of some unrecognised poison or drug which acts as  apoison,	 and  a conviction can be rested  on  circumstantialevidence provided that it is so decisive that the court	 canunhesitatingly hold that the death was not a natural one.Per  S. K. Das and M. Hidayatullah, jj.-Where  the  evidenceshowed that the appellant who was the medical adviser of thedeceased, deliberately set about first to ingratiate himselfin  the	 good  opinions	 of his	 patient  and  becoming	 herconfidant,  found  out all about her affairs  and  graduallybegan  managing	 her  affairs,	that all  the  time  he	 wasplanning to get at her property and had forged her signatureon  a dividend warrant and had obtained undated cheque	fromher  and  then	under the guise of helping  her	 to  have  aconsultation  with  a  specialist in Bombay took  her  in  atrain,	and  then  brought  the	 patient  unconscious  to  ahospital  bereft of all property with which she had  startedfrom  home and gave a wrong name to cover her  identity	 andwrong  history	of  her ailments, that after  her  death  heabandoned  the body to be dealt with by the hospital  as  anunclaimed body, spread the story that she was alive and madeuse  of the situation to misappropriate all her	 properties,and  that  he  tried  by  all  means  to  avoid	  postmortemexamination  and when questioned gave false and	 conflictingstatements, held that if the deceased died in  circumstanceswhich  prima  facie admit of either disease or	homicide  bypoisoning one must look at the conduct of the appellant bothbefore and after the death of the deceased, that the  corpusdelicti	 could	be held to be proved by a  number  of  factswhich  render the commission of the crime certain, and	thatthe  medical  evidence in the case and the  conduct  of	 theappellant  unerringly  pointed to the  conclusion  that	 thedeath  of the deceased was the result of the  administrationof  some  unrecognised poison or drug which would act  as  apoison	 and   that  the  appellant  was  the	person	 whoadministered it.461Per Sarkar, J.-If it could be established in this case	thatthe  deceased  had died an unnatural death,  the  conclusionwould  be inevitable that unnatural death had  been  broughtabout  by poison, but the circumstances were not  such	thatfrom  them  the only reasonable conclusion to be  drawn	 wasthat  the deceased died an unnatural death.  Held, that	 theprosecution had failed to prove the guilt of the appellant.Regina v. Onufrejczyk, [1955] 1 Q.B. 388, The King v. Horry,[1952] N.Z.L. 111, Mary Ann Nash's case, (1911) 6 Cr.	App.R. 225 and Donnall's case, (1817) 2 C.& K, 308n,  consideredand relied on.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 73  of1959.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJanuary	  16/20th,  1959,  of  the  Bombay  High  Court	  inConfirmation  case No. 25 of 1958 with Criminal	 Appeal	 No.1372  of 1958, arising out of. the judgment and order  datedOctober 27, 1958, of the Sessions Judge, Poona, in  SessionsCase No. 52 of 1958.A.   S.	 R.  Chtiri,  S. N. Andley,  J.	 B.  Dadachanji	 andRameshwar Nath, for the appellant.H.   N.	 Seervai, Advocate-General for the State of  Bombay,Porus A. Mehta and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1959.	December  14.	The  Judgment  of  S.  K.  Das	 andHidayatullah, JJ., was delivered by Hidayatullah, J. Sarkar,J., delivered a separate Judgment.HIDAYATULLAH J.-This appeal by special leave is against	 thejudgment  of the Bombay High Court [J. C. Shah, J.  (now  ofthe  Supreme  Court)  and  V. S.  Desai,  J.]  by  which  itmaintained  the conviction of the appellant, Lagu, under  s.302 of the Indian Penal Code, and confirmed the sentence  ofdeath  passed  on  him by Shri V. A.  Naik  (now  Naik,	 J.)Sessions Judge, Poona.The  appellant	was  tried for the murder  of  one  LaxmibaiKarve, and the charge held proved against him was that on orabout the night between November 12 and 13, 1956, either  atPoona  or in the course of a railway journey  between  Poonaand Bombay, he administered to the said Laxmibai Karve, someunrecognised poison or drug which would act as a poison,59	  462with the intention of causing her death and which did  causeher death.    Laxmibai  Karve was a resident of Poona where she  livedat  93-95,  Shukrawar Peth. Before her marriage of  she	 wasknown  as  Indumati, Indutai or Indu Ponkshe.  In  the	year1922, she married Anant Ramachandra Karve, a widower with  ason by name, Vishnu. On her marriage, as is the custom,	 shewas  named  Laxmibai by the family of her  husband  and	 wasknown  as Laxmibai Karve. She was also known as Mai  or	 MaiKarve.	From Laxmibai there were born two sons,	 Ramachandra(P.W. 1) and Purshottam alias Arvind, who died in 1954.Anant  Ramachandra Karve was a moderately rich man, who	 hadbeen successful in business. He died in 1945 of pleurisy. Hewas  attended  till  his  death by  the	 appellant  and	 hisbrother,  B.  C.  Lagu,	 both of  whom	are  doctors.  AnantRamachandra Karve left a will dated February 28, 1944. Priorto  the execution of the will, he had gifted Rs.  30,000  tohis  son, Vishnu, to set him up in business. By his will  hegave   the  house  No.	93-95,	Shukrawar  Peth,  Poona	  toRamachandra  with  a right of residence in  at	least  threerooms  to his widow, Laxmibai and a further right to her  toreceive	 Rs.  50 per month from the rent of  the  house.  Heassigned an insurance policy of Rs. 5,000 in her favour. Thebusiness was left to Ramachandra. The cash deposits in Bank,Post  Office and with other persons together with the  rightto  recover loans from debtors in the Bhor State were  givento  Purushottam alias Arvind. Certain bequests of lands	 anddebentures were made to Visbnu's children. Laxmibai was alsodeclared  owner	 of all her ornaments of about 60  tolas  ofgold and nose-ring and pearl bangles which were described inthe  will. In  addition  to  what	 she  inherited	 from  her  husband,Laxmibai inherited about Rs. 25,000 invested in shares	fromher   mother,  Girjabai,  and  another	60  tolas  of	goldornaments. In January 1954, Purushottam alias Arvind died atPoona.	By Purushottam's death Laxmibai also  inherited	 allthe property held by him.463Thus, at the time of her death, Laxmibai possessed of  about560  shares  in diverse Electric' Companies,  debentures  inSouth Madras Electric Supply Corporation and Mettur Chemicaland  Industrial Corporation, a sum of Rs. 7,882-15-0 at	 theBank of Maharashtra, a sum of Rs. 35,000 in deposit with oneVasudeo Sadashiv Joshi, gold and pearl ornaments and  sundrymovables like clothes, house hold furniture, radio etc.In the year 1946, Ramachandra, the elder son, started livingseparately.   There were differences between the mother	 andson.  The latter had suffered a loss in the business and hadmortgaged  the house with one Shinde, who filed a suit,	 andobtained  a  decree but Vishnu filed a	suit  for  partitionclaiming  that his onethird share was not affected.   Beforethis,  Ramachandra  had closed his business in	195  1,	 andjoined the military.  He was posted at different places, butin  spite  of  their differences, mother  and  son  used  tocorrespond with each other.  In May, 1956, Laxmibai arrangedand performed his marriage, and he went away in June, 1956.Laxmibai  had  contracted tuberculosis after  the  birth  ofPurushottam.  That was about twenty years before her  death.The lesion, however, healed and till 1946 her health was notbad.  From 1946 she suffered from diabetes.  In 1948 she wasoperated for hysterectomy, and before her operation, she wasgetting hysterical fits.  On June 15, 1950, she was examinedby Dr, R. V, Sathe, who prescribed some treatment.  In July,1950,  she  was admitted in the Wanless	 Tuberculosis  Sana-torium	for  pulmonary affection, and she was  treated	tillNovember  15, 1950.  Two stages of thoracoplasty  operationswere  performed,  but  she left, though	 a  third  stage  ofoperation  was	advised.  In the  operations,  her  leftsidefirst  rib  and portions of 2nd to 6th	ribs  were  removed.Laxmibai  was,	however,  treated with	medicines,  and	 thefocus, it appears, was under control.We  now come to the events immediately preceding her  death.Laxmibai  had, through the appellant, taken  an	 appointmentfrom Dr. Sathe of Bombay for464a  consultation about her health, for November 13, 1956,  at3-30  p. m. It was to attend this appointment that she	leftPoona in the company of the appellant	by  Passenger  trainon  the	 night of November 12,1956, for Bombay.	  The  trainarrived	 at Victoria Terminus Station at 5-10 a. m.  thirty-five minutes late.  It is an admitted fact that Laxmibai wasthen deeply unconcious and was carried on a stretcher by theappellant  to a taxi and later to the G. T. Hospital,  whereshe  was  entered as an in-door patient at 5-45	 a.  m.	 Shenever  regained	 consciousness and died at 11-30 a.  m.	 Herbody  remained it the G.T. Hospital till the evening of	 the14th,  when  it was sent to the J. J.  Hospital	 morgue	 forpreservation.	Later,	it was to be handed over  under	 theorders	of the Coroner to the Grant Medical College for	 theuse of Medical Students.  It was noticed there that she	 hada  suspicious  ligature mark on the neck, and the  body	 wassubjected  to  postmortem  examination and  the	 viscera  tochemical  analysis and then the body was disposed of.	Boththe  autopsy  as  well as the chemical	analysis  failed  todisclose any poison and the mark on the neck was found to bepostmortem.The  appellant was the medical attendant and friend  of	 thefamily.	  He and his brother (also a  medical  practitioner)attended  on  Anant Ramachandra Karve till his	death.	 Theappellant also treated Purshottam alias Arvind for two	daysprior  to  his death on January 18, 1954.  He was  also	 themedical	 attendant  of Laxmibai and  generally	managed	 heraffairs.  In 1955, he started living in the main room of thesuite  occupied	 by Laxmibai, and if Ramachandra  is  to  bebelieved,  the reason for the quarrel between  Laxmibai	 andhimself was the influence which the appellant exercised overthe mother to the disadvantage of the son.  However that be,it is quite clear that the son left Poona in June, 1956, anddid not see his mother alive again.The  death  of Laxmibai was not known to  the  relatives  orfriends.   The appellant also did not disclose this fact  toany  one.   On the other hand, he kept it  a  close  secret.Soon afterwards, people began receiving465mysterious  letters purporting to be from Laxmibai,  statingthat she had gone on pilgrimage, that she did not intend  toreturn	and  that none should try to find  her	whereabouts.She  advised  them  to	communicate  with  her	through	 thenewspaper  " Sakal ". Laxmibai also exhorted all persons  toforget her, as she had married one Joshi and had settled  atRathodi,  near Jaipur in Rajasthan.  People who went to	 herrooms  at first found them locked, but soon the	 doors	wereopen  and  the	meveable property was  found  to  have	beenremoved.  Through these mysterious letters Laxmibai informedall  concerned that she had herself removed  these  articlessecretly and that none was to be blamed or suspected.  It isthe prosecution case that these letters were forgeries,	 andthat   the  appellant  misappropriated	the  properties	  ofLaxmibai, including her shares, bank deposits etc. The  appellant	 has admitted his entire conduct  after	 thedeath  of Laxmibai, by which he managed to get hold  of	 herproperty.  His explanation was that he would have given	 theproceeds  to  some charitable institution according  to	 herwishes adding some money of his own to round off the figure.He  led no evidence to prove that Laxmibai before  she	leftPoona  or at any time gave such instructions to him  in	 thematter. -Meanwhile,  the	 continued  disappearance  of  Laxmibai	 wascausing	 uneasiness  to	 her  friends  and  relatives.	  OnDecember  31,  1957,  G. D. Bhave (P.	W.  8)	addressed  acomplaint to the Chief Minister, Bombay.  Similarly , Dr. G.N.  Datar  (P.	W. 5) also addressed a letter to  the  ChiefMinister,  Bombay  on February 16, 1958, and in	 both  thesepetitions,  doubts were expressed.  Ramachandra too  made  areport,	 and in consequence of a preliminary  investigation,the  appellant	was  arrested  on  March  12,1958.   He	 wassubsequently  tried  and convicted by  the  Sessions  Judge,Poona.	 His appeal was also dismissed, and the	 certificateof  fitness having been refused, he obtained  special  leavefrom this Court and filed this appeal.The  appellant's  contention  in this  appeal  is  that	 theprosecution has not succeeded in proving that466Laxmibai  was poisoned at all, or that there was any  poisonadministered  to her which would evade detection, yet  causedeath  in the manner it actually took place.  The  appellantcontends also that his conduct before the death of  Laxmibaiwas bona fide and correct, that no inference of guilt can bedrawn from all the circumstances of this case, and that	 hissubsequent  conduct,  though suggestive of  greed,  was	 notproof of his guilt on the charge of murder.The  conviction	 of the appellant  rests  on  circumstantialevidence,  and	his  guilt has been  inferred  from  medicalevidence  regarding the death of Laxmibai and his  conduct.'The  two Courts below have held that the total	evidence  inthis  case unerringly points to the commission of the  crimecharged and every reasonable hypothesis compatible with	 theinnocence  of the appellant has been successfully  repelled.A  criminal  trial, of course, is not an  enquiry  into	 theconduct	 of  an	 accused  for  any  purpose  other  than  todetermine  whether he is guilty of the offence	charged.  Inthis  connection,  that piece of conduct can be held  to  beincriminatory which has no reasonable explanation except  onthe hypothesis that he is guilty. Conduct which destroys thepresumption   of  innocence  can  alone	 be  considered	  asmaterial.  The contention of the appellant, briefly, is thatthe  medical evidence is inconclusive, and that	 his-conductis explainable on hypotheses other than his guilt.Ordinarily,  it	 is not the practice of this  Court  to	 re-examine	 the  findings	of fact reached by  the	 High  Courtparticularly in a case where there is concurrence of opinionbetween	 the  two Courts below.	 But the  case	against	 theappellant is entirely based on circumstantial evidence,	 andthere  is no direct evidence that he administered a  poison,and no poison has, in fact been detected by the doctor,	 whoperformed  the	postmortem examination, or by  the  ChemicalAnalyser.   The inference of guilt having been drawn  on  anexamination  of a mass of evidence during  which  subsidiaryfindings were given by the two Courts below, we have felt itnecessary, in view of the extraordinary nature of this case,to satisfy ourselves467whether	 each  conclusion on the separate'  aspects  of	 thecase,  is  supported  by evidence and is  just	and  proper.Ordinarily,  this  Court is not required to  enter  into  anelaborate examination of the evidence, but we have  departedfrom  this  rule  in this particular case, in  view  of	 thevariety	 of  arguments	that were addressed to	us  and	 theevidence  of  conduct  which the  appellant  has  sought  toexplain	 away  on hypotheses  suggesting  innocence.   Thesearguments,  as	we have stated in brief,  covered  both	 thefactual as well as the medical aspects of the case, and havenecessitated a close examination of the evidence once again,so  that we may be in a position to say what are  the  factsfound, on which our decision is rested.That Laxmibai died within six hours of her admission in	 theG.  T. Hospital is not questioned.  Her body was  identifiedby  persons who knew her well from her photograph  taken  atthe  J.	 J. Hospital on November 19, 1956.  In view  of	 thecontention of the appellant that she died of disease  and/orwrong  treatment,  we have to determine first what  was	 thestate  of  her	health	before she  went  on  the  ill-fatedjourney.  ,This	 enquiry  takes us  to	the  medical  papersmaintained at the institutions where she was treated in	 thepast, the evidence of some of the doctors who dealt with hercase,  of the observation of witnesses who could  depose  toher   outward  state  of  health  immediately	before	 herdeparture,  and	 lastly, the case papers maintained  by	 theappellant as a medical adviser.The earliest record of Laxmibai's health is furnished by Dr.K.  C.	Gharpure  (P.	W. 17), who  treated  her  in  1948.According  to Dr. Gharpure, she entered his Nursing Home  onApril  6,  1948,  and  stayed there  till  April  24,  1948.Laxmibai   was	 then	suffering   from   Menorrhagia	 andMetrorrhagia  for  about six years.  In 1946  there  was  anoperation  for	dilatation  and	 also  curettage.   She	 hadDiabetes  from	1945  and hysterical fits  since  1939.	  Onadmission in Dr. Gharpure's Nursing Home, her blood pressurewas found to be 140/80 and urine showed sugar + + ,  albuminnil.  She was kept in the hospital and probably treated, andon the 11th, when a sub-total468hysterectomy  was performed, she had blood  pressure  110/75and  sugar traces (albumin nil) before the    Laguoperation.According  to  Dr.  Gharpure,  the  operation  was  not	 forhysterical  fits,  and	along with  hysterectomy  the  right-ovary	was  cysticpunctured  and  the	appendix  was	alsoremoved.   A  certificate was issued by	 Dr.  Gharpure	(Ex.121), in which the same history is given. Laxmibai  was	next  examined	by  Dr.	 Ramachandra   Sathe(P.W.25)  on June 15, 1950.  He deposed from the  case	filewhich he had maintained about her complaints.  A copy of thecase  papers  shows that she was introduced to	him  by	 theappellant.   At that time, her weight was 120 lbs.  and	 herblood pressure, 140/90.	 Dr. Sathe noticed that diabetes hadexisted for four years, and that she was being given insulinfor  8	months prior to his examination.   He  also  noticedhysterectomy  scar, and that she had a tubercular lesion  onthe  left apex 20 years ago.  According to the statement  ofthe  patient,  she had trouble with  tuberculosis  from	 May1949, and her teeth were extracted on account of  pyorrhoea.She  was  getting intermittent	temperature  from  September1949,  and was receiving streptomycin and  PAS	irregularly.She  was then suffering from low temperature,  slight  coughand  expectoration.  On examination, the doctor	 found	thatthere was infiltration in the left apex but no other  septicfocus  was found.  The evidence does not show the  treatmentwhich  was given, and the doctor merely stated that he	musthave recommended a line of treatment to the patient,  thoughhe had no record of it. On  July 13, 1950, Laxmibai entered the Wanlesswadi  T.  B.Sanatorium,  and stayed there till November 15,	 1950.	 Hercondition is noted in two certificates which were issued  bythe Sanatorium -and proved by Dr. Fletcher (P.	W. 16),	 theMedical Superintendent.	 In describing the previous  historyof  the	 patient,  the case papers showed  that	 she  had  ahistory	 of  Pott's disease (T. B. of the  spine)  20  yearsbefore.	  She  had diabetes for five years  and	 history  ofhysterectomy operation two years before.  It was also  notedthat she had469T.   B. of the lungs 15 years back, but had kept well for 14years  and  a  new  attack began  in  or  about	 1949.	 Thecertificate  describes the treatment given to her  in  thesewords:"  Patient  was	 admitted  on 13th  July,  1950.   X-Ray  onadmission showed extensive filtration on the left side	witha large cavity in the upper zone; the right side was  withinnormal limits.	She had diabetes with high blood sugar whichwas  controlled	 by insulin.  Two  stages  of  thoracoplastyoperations  on	the left side were done and there  was	goodclearing  of disease but there was a small  residual  cavityseen and the third stage operation was advised.	 The patientis  leaving at her own request against medical advice.	 Hersputum is positive.  "From   the  above,  it	appears	 that	Laxmibai's   generalcomplaints   were  menstrual  irregularities  corrected	  byhysterectomy,  tuberculosis  of the lungs  controlled  to  alarge extent by thoracoplasty and medicines and diabetes forwhich  she  was	 receiving treatment.	In  the	 later	casepapers, there is no mention of hysterical fits, and it seemsthat she had overcome that trouble after the performance  ofhysterectomy and the cysticpuncture of the ovary, for  thereis  no evidence of a recurrence after 1948.   Diabetes	was,however, present, and must have continued till her death. Next, we come to the evidence of some witnesses who saw herimmediately  prior to her departure for Bombay	on  November12,   1956.   The  first  witness  in  this  connection	  isRamachandra  (P.W.  1),	 son  of  Laxmibai.   He  has  givenapproximately the same description of her many ailments	 andthe treatment she underwent.  He last saw her in June, 1956,when  his  marriage was performed.  According  to  him,	 thegeneral condition of his mother was rather weak, but  beforethat,  her condition had not occasioned him any concern	 andhe  had not noticed anything so radically wrong with her  asto  prompt him to ask her about her ailments.  When he	lastsaw  his mother in June 1956, lie found her in good  health.Dr. Madhav Domadhar Bhave (P.W. 9), who knew Laxmibai	  470intimately  stated  that  he saw her last in  the  month  ofOctober,  1956,	 and that the condition of  her	 health	 wasgood. No question was asked from him in cross examination atall. His brother, G. D. Bhave, (P.W. 8),  who is a landlord,had  gone to Laxmibai's house on November 8, 1956,  and	 mether  in	 the presence of the appellant.	 Laxmibai  had	thentold him that she was going to Bombay with the appellant  toconsult	 Dr. Sathe in connection with her health.   She	 hadalso  stated  that she would be returning in  four  or	fivedays. According to the witness, she was in good health,	 andwas  moving about and doing her own work.  The next  witnessis Champutai Vinayak Gokhale (P.W. II), who met Laxmibai  onNovember 10 or 11, 1956.  Champutai is a well-educated lady.She  is	 a  B.Sc. of the Bombay University and	an  M.A.  ofColumbia (U.S.A.) University.  She said that she had gone toLaxmibai's house to invite her for the birthday party of herson,  which  was to take place on November  13,	 1956.	 Shefound  Laxmibai	 in  good  state  of  health,  and  Laxmibaipromised that though she would be going to Bombay, she wouldreturn soon enough to join the party.Similarly, Viswanath Janardhan Karandikar, pleader of Poona,met  Laxmibai  on November 10 or,11 ,  1956.   Laxmibai	 hadherself gone in the afternoon to him to ask him whether	 herpresence was necessary in Poona in connection with the	suitfiled  by  Vishnu, to which we have referred  earlier.	 Thewitness stated that Laxmibai was in good state of health 'atthat time, and that he informed her that he did not  proposeto  examine  her  as  a witness.   She	was  again  seen  byDattatreya  Vishnu Virkar (P.W. 6) on the night of  November12,  1956,  an hour before she left her	 house	for  Bombay.Virkar,	 who  is a Graduate in Electrical Mechanics  and  inGovernment  service, was a tenant living in the same  house.Laxmibai, according to the will of her husband, was entitledto  Rs.	 50  out of the rents from  tenants.   She  went  toVirkar's Block at 8 p.m. and told him that she was going  toBombay	to consult a doctor in the company of the  appellantand needed money.  Virkar gave her Rs. 50 and471Laxmibai went back to her Block saying that she would give areceipt.  Later, she brought the receipt to Virkar seated athis  meals, asked him not to get UP and left the receipt  inhis room.  The receipt signed by Laxmibai is Ex. 70, and  isdated November 12, 1956.  Shantabai (P.W. 14), a servant  ofLaxmibai,   was	 deaf  and  dumb,  and	her   evidence	 wasinterpreted  with  the help of	Martand	 Ramachandra  Jamdar(P.W.  13),  the Principal of a Deaf and  Mute	School.	  Itappears that Shantabai had studied Marathi, and was able  toanswer	questions  written on a piece of paper,	 replies  towhich  questions  she wrote in her own hand.   Some  of	 thequestions  were not properly answered by Shantabai, but	 shestated	by pantomime that on the day on which she left,	 theappellant had given two injections to Laxmibai.	 The learnedSessions Judge made a note to the following effect:In  the morning the accused gave Laxmibai one injection	 andin  the evening he gave the second one. (The signs  were  soclear that I myself gathered the meaning and the interpreterwas not asked to interpret the signs).	"Next,  Laxmibai was seen by Pramilabai Sapre (P.W. 12) at  8p.m.  on  November 12,1956.  Laxmibai had told	the  witnessthat  she  was	going  to Bombay to  consult  a	 doctor	 andLaxmibai  again'  passed  her door at 9-15  p.m.,  when	 thewitness	 was at her meals.  Though Laxmibai told her not  todisturb	 herself, the witness did get up and saw  her.	 Thewitness stated that Laxmibai did not suffer from T. B. afterthe ,operation but was suffering from diabetes, and that shesometimes  used to give Laxmibai her injections	 of  insulinbut  only  till	 1953.	The last witness  on  the  state  ofLaxmibai's  health  is	K. L. Patil (P.	  W.  60),  who	 sawLaxmibai  immediately before her departure for the  station.He saw her standing at the Par in front of her house with  asmall  bag and a small bedding.	 He then saw  the  appellantarriving  there, and Laxmibai presumably left in a  rickshawor a tonga, because there was a stand for these vehicles  inthe  neighbourhood.   All this evidence was  not  questionedexcept	to point out-that Dr. Datar in his petition  to	 theChief Minister had stated that Laxmibai was a472 frank case of tuberculosis of both lungs and an invalid(Ex.68).   But Dr. Datar explained that he had so stated  there,because	 it was being " circulated " that she had gone on  along  pilgrimage  alone, and that it  was  most	 improbable.Indeed, Dr. Datar said that   Laxmibai was well enough to doall her work and even cooked for herself.From  this mass of evidence given by persons from  differentwalks  of  life and most of them well-placed,  it  is  clearenough that Laxmibai was not in such a state of health	thatshe would have collapsed in the train, unless something veryunusual	 took place.  She was not in the moribund  state  inwhich  she undoubtedly was, when she reached  the  hospital.Her  general  health,  though  not  exactly  good,  had	 notdeteriorated  so radically as to prevent her from  attendingto  her normal avocations.  She appeared to have been  quitebusy  prior to her departure arranging for this	 matter	 andthat,  and  she did not rely upon other	 persons'  help	 butpersonally attended to all that she desired. Right up to  9-15  or	so  in the night, she was  sufficiently	 strong	 andhealthy	 to go about her affairs, and indeed, she must	haveboarded	 the  train also in a fit state of  health,  becausethere  is  nothing  to	show that she  was  carried  to	 thecompartment in a state of collapse or unconsciousness.  We  have  stated  earlier  that  the	appellant  who	 waspresumably treating her for her ailments had maintained casepapers to show what treatment he was giving her from time totime.	These  case, papers are Ex.' 305,  and	commence  onFebruary  27, 1956.  The medicines that have been  shown  asprescribed in these case papers show treatment for diabetes,general debility, tuberculosis, rheumatism and	indigestion.Much reliance cannot, however, be placed upon this document,because	 these	case  papers significantly  enough  stop  onNovember  12,-1956,  and continue again	 from  February	 13,1957, when Laxmibai was no more.  There are four entries  oftreatment given to Laxmibai between February 13 and February28,  1957, when Laxmibai had already died and her  body	 hadundergone postmortem examination and been cremated.473The  extent  to	 which her treatment, if any,  went  in	 theperiod	covered by the case papers may or may not  be  trulydescribed  by  the  appellant in these papers,	but  we	 aredefinitely  of the opinion that the entries there cannot  beread  without suspicion, in view of the	 extraordinary	factdescribed  by us here.	It appears, however, that  the	lastinsulin	 injection was given to her on September  27,  1956,though the appellant stated in his examination as accused inthe  case that she was put on Nadisan tablets for  diabetes.The appellant was questioned by the Sessions Judge as to theState of her health, and he stated that Laxmibai on the	 dayshe left for Bombay had a temperature of 100 degrees and wassuffering  from laryngitis, pharyngitis, and  complained  ofpain  in the ear.  What relevance this has, we	shall  pointout subsequently when we deal with the medical evidence	 andthe conclusions of the doctors about it. The next question which falls for consideration is  whetherthe appellant and Laxmibai travelled in the same compartmenton  the train.	The train left Poona at 10 p.m., and  it  isobvious	 enough	 that  it  was	a  comparatively  slow	 andinconvenient  train.  We have no evidence in the case as  towhether	 the appellant travelled with Laxmibai in  the	samecompartment,  but both the Courts below have found from	 theprobabilities  of the case that he did.	 The best person  totell us about this journey is necessarily the appellant, andreference  may	now be made to what he stated in  regard  tothis   journey.	   The	appellant  had	arranged   for	 theexamination of Laxmibai by Dr. Sathe at Bombay.	 He was	 thefamily physician and also a friend.  Laxmibai was an elderlylady  and the appellant was for some time previous  to	thisjourney	 living in the main room of her block.	There  wouldbe  nothing to prevent the appellant from travelling in	 thesame  compartment  with	 his patient,  who  might  need	 hisattention during the journey.  The appellant denied in Courtthat  he  had  travelled in the same  compartment,  but	 hisstatements  on this part of the events have not	 been  quiteconsistent.   After  Laxmibai died and	the  question  aroseabout the disposal of her body, the police at474Poona  were  asked  to contact the  appellant  to  get	someinformation  about  her.  On November 16, 1956,	 before	 anyinvestigation into ail offence of any kind was started,	 theappellant was questioned by the police, and   he   gave	   awritten statement in Ex. 365.  He stated there as follows:  "I, Anant Chintaman Lagu, occupation Medical practitioner,age  40	 years,	 residing at H.	 No.  431/5,  Shukrawar	 anddispensary  at H. No. 20, Shukrawar Peth, Poona 2, on  beingquestioned, state that on the night of 12th November,  1956,1  left Poona for Bombay by the train which leaves Poona  at10  p.m.  I reached Victoria Terminus at 5-15 a.m.  on	13thNovember, 1956.	 In my compartment I bad a talk with a womanas  also with other passengers.	 On getting accomodation  inthe  train  almost all of us began to doze and at  about  12p.m.  we slept.	 As Byculla came, -we  started	preparationsfor  getting  down.  At that time one woman was	 found	fastasleep.	 From other passengers I came to know that her	namewas Indumati Panse, about 36 years old and she had a brotherserving in Calcutta.  Other passengers got down at V. T. Thewoman,	however, did not awake. 1, therefore, looked at	 herkeenly	and  found that she was senseless.  Being  myself  adoctor,	 I thought it my duty to take her to  the  hospital.I,  therefore, took her to the G.T. Hospital in a  taxi.   Iknow  that that hospital was near.  As I had taken the	saidwoman  to the hospital, the C.M.O. took my address.  I	haveno more information about the woman.  She is not my relationand I am not in any way responsible for her."  It  will  appear from this that he was travelling  in	 thesame compartment as Laxmibai, though for reason's of his ownhe  did not care to admit that he was taking her to  Bombay.Similarly, in the hospital when he was questioned about	 thepatient he had brought for admission, he stated to Dr. Ugale(P.   W.  18), Casualty Medical Officer, that the  lady	 hadsuddenly  become  unconscious in the train.  This  fact	 wasnoted by Dr. Ugale in the bed-head ticket, and Dr. Ugale hasstated on oath that the information was supplied by475the  appellant	himself.  To Dr. Miss Aneeja,  who  was	 theHouse Physician on the morning of November 13, the appellantalso stated the same thing.  Dr. Miss Aneeja had also made aseparate  note of this, and stated that the information	 wasgiven  by the appellant.  In view of these statements  'madeby the appellant at a time when he was not required to	facea charge, we think that his present statement in Court	thathe travelled in a separate compartment cannot be accepted. The train halted at various stations en route, and evidencewas led in the case, of the Guard, K. Shamanna (P.  W.	37),who  deposed from his memo book (Ex. 214).  This train	made26 halts en route before it arrived at V. T. Station.	Someof  these  halts  were	of as many as  20  minutes.   It  isdifficult  to think that the appellant would not have  knowntill  he arrived at Victoria Terminus that his	patient	 wasunconscious, and the fact that he mentioned that she  becamesuddenly unconscious shows that be knew the exact manner  ofthe  onset.   Without, however; speculating as to  what	 hadactually happened, it is quite clear to us that Laxmibai wasin  the same compartment as the appellant, a fact which	 wasnot  denied by the learned counsel in the  arguments  beforeus.  If we were to accept what the appellant stated as true,then  Laxmibai	lost  her consciousness	 suddenly.   It	 is,however,  a little difficult to accept as true all that	 theappellant  stated in this behalf, because be told  a  patentlie  to	 the  police when he was questioned,  that  he	knewnothing about the woman or Who she was, but took her to	 thehospital   as  an  act	of  humanity  when  he	 found	 herunconscious.  There is nothing to show beyond this statementto the police in Ex. 365 that there were other passengers inthe  compartment;  but if there had been, the  attention  ofthese  passengers would have been drawn to the condition  ofLaxmibai,  and some' one would have advised the	 calling  ofthe  Guard  or	the  railway authorities  at  one  of  thesestations  at which the train halted.  The  circumstances  ofthe  case,  therefore, point to the appellant  and  Laxmibaibeing in the compartment together, and the preponderance of476probabilities  is that the compartment was not	occupied  byany other person.    We	shall leave out from consideration for	the  presentthe   circumstances  under  which  Laxmibai   was   admittedin  the	 G. T. Hospital and the treatment given to  her.  Weshall now pass on to her death and what happened  thereafterand  the connection of the appellant with the  circumstancesresulting in the disposal of the dead body.  We have alreadystated	that the appellant was present in the hospital	tillher death.  We next hear of the appellant at Poona.  On	 theafternoon of November 13, 1956, Dr' Mouskar (P.	 W. 40), theResident  Medical Officer of the Hospital, sent	 a  telegram(Ex.  224)  to	the appellant, and it conveyed	to  him	 thefollowing information:" Indumati expired.  Arrange removal reply immediately." Thetelegram was sent at about 2 p.m. The appellant in reply didnot send a telegram, but wrote an inland letter in which  hestated	that  the name of the woman admitted by him  in	 thehospital had been wrongly shown as "Paunshe", and that therewas an extra "u" in it.	 He also stated that he had informedher  brother  at  Calcutta about the  death,  and  that	 thebrother	 would	call  at the hospital for the  body  of	 hissister.	  The name of the brother was shown as Govind  VamanDeshpande.   The letter also stated that the  appellant	 waswriting	 in  connection with the woman aged 30 to  35  yearsadmitted in the hospital at 6 a.m. on November 13, 1955, andwho  had  expired the same day at 11 a.m. The  name  of	 thebrother	 in this letter is fictitious, because Laxmibai	 badno  brother,  much less a brother in Calcutta  and  of	thisname.	Thereafter, the appellant took no further action  inthe  matter till the police questioned him on the 16th,	 twodays after he had sent the letter.  It seems that the appel-lant  did  not expect the police to appear so soon,  and  hethought it advisable to deny all knowledge about the lady hehad taken to the hospital by telling the police that he	 didnot know her.  The inference drawn from these two pieces  ofconduct by the Courts below is against the appellant, and wealso agree.  We have already stated that from then  onwards,the477appellant  did	not  care  to  enquire	from  the   hospitalauthorities  as to what had happened to his  patient's	deadbody,  and whether it had been disposed Of or not.  He	alsodid not go to Bombay, nor did he inform Dr. Sathe about	 thecancellation  of the appointment.  In his  examination,	 he,however, stated that he attempted to telephone to Dr. Sathe,but could not get through, as the instrument was engaged  oneach occasion.	One expects, however, that he would have  inthe  ordinary  course  written a letter of  apology  to	 Dr.Sathe, because he must have been conscious of the fact	thathe had kept the Specialist waiting for this appointment; buthe  did	 not.  It is said that the appellant need  not	havetaken  this  appointment  and  could  have  told  a  lie  toLaxmibai; but the appointment with Dr. Sathe had to be	realbecause	 if the plan failed, Laxmibai would have  been	mostsurprised why she was brought to Bombay.  With this ends thephase  of  events resulting in the death  of  Laxmibai.	  Weshall  deal  with the events in the hospital later,  but  wepursue the thread of the appellant's conduct.Prior  to  the	fateful journey,  Laxmibai  had	 passed	 twodocuments to the appellant.  They are Exs. 285 and 286.	  Bythe  first,  Laxmibai  intimated the  Bank  of	Maharashtra,Poona, that she was going to withdraw in the following	weekfrom  her  Savings Bank account a sum of money	between	 Rs.1,000 and Rs. 5,000.  The other document was a bearer chequefor  Rs. 5,000, also signed by Laxmibai but written  by	 theappellant.  The appellant presented the first on November 17after writing the date, November 15, on it and the second onNovember  20,  after  writing the  date,  November  19,	 andreceived payment.  Prior to this, on November 12, 1956, whenLaxmibai was alive and in Poona he had presented to the Bankof  Maharashtra	 a  dividend warrant for  Rs.  2,607-6-0  toLaxmibai's account writing her signature himself.  This	 washardly	necessary if he was honest.  The signature  deceivedthe Bank, and it is obvious that he was a consummate  forgereven  then.   Of course, he put the  money  into  Laxmibai'saccount, but he had to if he was to draw it out again on thestrength of these 61478two  documents.	  The question is, can we say  that  he	 washonest on November 12, 1956?  The answer is  obvious.	 Hisdishonest  intentions  were, therefore, fully  matured	evenbefore he left Poona.  Thereafter, the	appellant  convertedall the property of Laxmibai to his own use.  He removed themovables   in  her  rooms  including  the  pots	 and   pans,furniture,  clothes, radio, share scrips and so on,  to	 hisown  house.   He  even went to the  length  of	forging	 hersignature  on securities, transfer deeds, letters  to  banksand  companies,	 and  even  induced  a	lady  magistrate  toauthenticate the signature of Laxmibai for which he obtainedthe  services of a woman who, to say the  least,  personatedLaxmibai.  So clever were the many ruses and so cunning	 theforgeries that the banks, companies and indeed, all  personswere  completely deceived.  It was only once that  the	bankhad occasion to question the signature of Laxmibai, but	 theappellant promptly presented another document purporting  tobe signed by Laxmibai, which the bank accepted with somewhatsurprising  credulity.	 The long and short of	it  is	thatnumerous persons were imposed upon, including those who	 arenormally careful and suspicious, and the appellant by  thesemeans  collected a sum of no less than Rs. 26,000  which  hedisposed of in various ways, the chief, among them being theopening	 of a short term deposit account in the name of	 hiswife  and  himself and crediting some other amounts  to	 thejoint  names of his brother, B.C. Lagu, and himself.  We  donot  enter into the details of his many stratagems  for	 tworeasons.   Firstly  because,  all  this	 conduct  has	beenadmitted  before us by his counsel, and next because he	 hasreceived  life imprisonment on charges connected with  thesefrauds.Suffice	it to say that if the appellant were  to  befound  guilty  of the offence, sufficient  motive  would  befound in his dealings with the property of this	 unfortunatewidow  after  her  death.  If murder  there  was,it  was  tofacilitate the action which he took regarding her  property.If the finding of his guilt be reached, then his  subsequentconduct would be a part of a very deepseated plan  beginningalmost from the time when he479began  to  ingratiate himself into the good opinion  of	 thelady.	The  fact, however, remains that  all  this  conductcannot avail the prosecution, unless it proves	conclusivelysome other aspects of the case.We cannot, however, overlook one or two other  circumstanceswhich  are  part of this conduct.  We  have  already  statedbriefly that the appellant cause all persons to believe thatLaxmibai  was  alive and living at Rathodi  as	the  happilymarried	 wife  of one Joshi.  Both Joshi  and  Rathodi	wereequally	 fictitious.  In this connection, the  pleader,	 theson,  the  friends  and	 the  relations	 of  Laxmibai	werereceiving   for	  months  after	 her   death   letters	 andcommunications	purporting  to	be  signed  by	her,  thoughwritten	 at the instance of the -appellant by  persons,	 whohave come and deposed before the Court to this fact.   Theseletters	 were  all  posted  in	R.  M.	S.  vans,  and	 theprosecution  has  successfully	proved that  they  were	 notposted	in  any	 of the regular post offices in	 a  town  orvillage.   These  letters  show a  variety  of	details	 andintimacies  which  made them appear genuine except  for	 thehandwriting  and  the signature of Laxmibai.   For  a  time,people	who received them, though suspicious, took them	 forwhat they were worth, and it appears that they did not worryvery  much  about the truth. -It has now  been	successfullyproved	by the prosecution and admitted -by the	 appellant'scounsel	 before us that these letters were all sent  by	 theappellant with the sole object of keeping the people in	 thedark  about the fact of death, so that the  appellant  mighthave  time  to	deal  with the	property  at  leisure.	 Theappellant  asserts  that he thought of this only  after	 thedeath  of Laxmibai.  It seems somewhat surprising  that	 theappellant   should   have  suddenly   gone   downhill	intodishonesty, so to speak, at a bound.  The maxim is very	 oldthat  no one becomes dishonest suddenly; nema  fuit  repenteturpissimus.   What inference can be drawn from his  conductafter the death of Laxmibai is a matter to be considered  byus.   And in this connection, we can only say at this  stagethat if some prior conduct is connected intrinsically,	withconduct after death, then the motive of the appellant  wouldbe very clear indeed.480We  now	 pass  on to the evidence of what  happened  in	 thehospital  and  the total medical evidence on  the  cause  ofdeath.	 This evidence has to be considered  from  differentangles.	 Much of it relates to the condition of Laxmibai andthe treatment given to her; but other parts of it relate  tothe conduct of the appellant and the information supplied byhim.   There is also further evidence about the disposal  ofthe  body  and the enquiries made into the cause  of  death.These  must be dealt with separately.  For the	present,  weshall  confine ourselves to the pure medical aspect  of	 thecase of Laxmibai during her short stay in the hospital.When  Laxmibai	was  admitted in  the  hospital,  Dr.  Ugale(P.W.18),  the Casualty Medical Officer, was in charge.	  Hemade a preliminary examination and recorded his	 impressionsbefore he sent the patient to Ward No. 12.  He obtained fromthe appellant the history of the attack, and it appears thatall  that  the	appellant told him was	"  Patient  suddenlybecame	unconscious in train while coining from up  country.History	 of  similar attacks frequently	 before".   It	alsoappears that the appellant told him that the lady was liableto hysterical fits, and that was set down by Dr. Ugale as  aprovisional  diagnosis.	  So much of  Dr.  Ugale's  evidenceregarding the health of Laxmibai as given by the  appellant.Now,  we  take	up his own examination.	  According  to	 Dr.Ugale,	there were involuntary movements of the right  hand,which he noticed only once.  Only the right hand was moving.He  found  corneal reflex absent.  Pupils  were	 normal	 andreacting  to  light.  So far as central nervous	 system	 andrespiration  were concerned, he detected  nothing  abnormal.According to him, there was no evidence of a hysterical fit,and  he	 stated that he queried that  provisional  diagnosiswhich,	according  to him, was supplied	 by  the  appellant.According to Dr. Ugale, the name of the patient was given aslndumati Paunshe.The  patient  was  then made over to the care  of  Dr.	MissAneeja (P.  W. 19).  Dr. Miss Aneeja was then a raw  MedicalGraduate, having passed the M.B.B.S. in June, 1956.  She wasworking as the House Physician,481and was in charge of Ward No. 12.  She was summoned from herquarters to the Ward at 6-15 a.m. and she examined Laxmibai.We leave out of account again the conversation bearing	uponthe   conduct  of  the	appellant,  which  we	shall	viewsubsequently.	He told her also about the sudden  onset  ofunconsciousness,  and  that there was a history	 of  similarattacks	 before.  We are concerned next with the  result  ofthe examination by Dr. Miss Aneeja, bearing in mind that shewas not a very experienced physician.  She found pulse	100,temperature 99-5, respiration 20.  The skin was found to  besmooth	and elastic nails, conjunctiva and tongue were	pinkin colour lymphatic glands were not palpable; and bones	 andjoints had nothing abnormal in them.  The pupils of the eyeswere equal but dilated, and were not then reacting to light.She  found  that  up to the abdomen and	 the  sphincter	 thereflexes  were absent.	The reflexes at knee and ankle	werenormal, but the plantar reflex was Babinsky on one foot, andthere was slight rigidity of the neck.It  appears  that Laxmibai was promptly given a	 dose  of  astimulant  and oxygen was started.  Dr. Miss.	Aneeja	alsostated	that  she gave an injection of	insulin	 (40  units)immediately.  Much dispute has arisen as to whether Dr. MissAneeja	examined  the urine for sugar, albumin	and  acetonebefore starting this treatment.	 It is clear, however,	fromher  testimony that no blood test was made to determine	 thelevel  of  sugar in the blood.	A lumbar puncture  was	alsomade  by  Dr. Miss Aneeja and the cerebro-spinal  fluid	 wassent  for chemical analysis.  That report is available,	 andthe  fluid  was normal.	 According to Dr. Miss	Aneeja,	 theMedical Registrar who, she says, was Dr. Saify,	 recommendedintravenous injection of 40 units of insulin with 20 C.C. ofglucose,   which  were	administered.	According  to	her,Laxmibai was also put on glucose intragastric drip.Dr.  Miss Aneeja stated that the urine was examined  by	 herthree times, and in the first sample, sugar and acetone werepresent in quantities.	The first examination, according  toher, was at 6-30 a.m., the next at 8-30 a.m. and the last at11 a.m. She stated that she482had  used  Benedict test for sugar and	Rothera's  test	 foracetone.   In all the examinations, according to her,  therewas no albumin present.	 Dr. Miss Aneeja also claims to havephoned to Dr. Variava, the Honorary Physician, at 6-45 or  7a.m.,  and consulted him about the case. According  to	her,Dr. Saify, the Registrar of the Unit, visited the Ward at 8-30  a.m.  and wrote on the case papers that  an	 intravenousinjection  of  40 units of insulin with 20 C.C.	 of  glucoseshould	be  administered.   According to  her,	Dr.  Variavavisited the Ward at 11 a.m., and examined Laxmibai, but	 thepatient expired at 11-30 a.m. We do not at this stage  referto  the instructions for postmortem examination left by	 Dr.Variava which were noted on the case papers, because that isa  matter with regard to the disposal of the dead body,	 andwe  shall deal with the evidence in that behalf	 separately.The  evidence of Dr. Miss Aneeja shows only this  much	thatshe  was  put in charge of this case, examined	urine  threetimes  and finding sugar and acetone present, she started  atreatment   by	insulin	 which	was  also  supplemented	  byadministration	of  glucose  intravenously  as	well  as  byintragastric  drip.  Apart from one dose of stimulant  givenin  the	 first	few  minutes,  no  other  treatment   beyondadministration of oxygen was undertaken.  She had also notedthe  observations of the reflexes and the condition  of	 thepatient as they appeared to her on examination.There is a considerable amount of contradiction between	 theevidence  of Dr, Miss Aneeja and that of Dr. Variava  as  towhether	 acetone  was found by Dr. Miss	 Aneeja	 before	 Dr.Variava's  visit.   According to the learned Judges  of	 theCourt  below, the first urine examination deposed to by	 Dr.Miss  Aneeja  and said to have been made at  6-30  a.m.	 wasnever  performed.  The other two examinations were made,  asthe urine chart (Ex. 127) shows.  It is, however, a questionwhether they were confined only to sugar and albumin but didnot include examination for acetone.  We shall discuss	thispoint after we have dealt with the evidence of Dr. Variava.483Dr. Variava (P.W. 21) was the Honorary Physician, and was incharge	of  this  Unit.	 According to him, he  went  on	 hisrounds at 11 a.m., and examined Laxmibai from 11 a.m. to 11-15  a.m.  He questioned Dr. Miss Aneeja about  the  line  oftreatment  and	told  her that she could  not  have  made  adiagnosis  of  diabetic	 coma without  examining  urine	 foracetone.   Dr.	Variava	 deposed that  the  entry  regardingacetone	 on  the case papers was not made when	he  saw	 thepapers	at 11 a.m. He then asked Dr. Miss Aneeja to take  bycatheter  a  sample  of	 the urine and	to  examine  it	 foracetone.Dr.  Miss  Aneeja brought the test-tube with  urine  in	 it,which showed a light green colour, and Dr. Variava  inferredfrom it that acetone might be present in traces.   Accordingto  Dr.	 Variava, Laxmibai's case was not  one	of  diabeticcoma,  and he gave two reasons for this	 diagnosis,  namely,that  diabetic coma never comes on suddenly, and that  thereare  no convulsions in it, as were described by	 Dr.  Ugale.Dr. Variava also denied that the phone call to him was	madeby Dr. Miss Aneeja.  Dr. Variava stated that before he	leftthe  Ward he told Dr. Miss Aneeja that he was not  satisfiedthat the woman had died of diabetic coma and instructed	 herthat postmortem examination should be asked for.In connection with the evidence about the examination of theurine,	we have to see also the evidence of  Marina  Laurie,nurse  (P.W.  59), who stated how the entries in  the  urinechart came to be made.	It may be pointed out that the urinechart  showed only two examinations for sugar, at 8-30	a.m.and  11	 am., and not the one at 6-30 a.m. The	entry  aboutthat was made on the case papers under the head "  treatment" by Dr. Miss Aneeja, and it is the last entry I acetone + +' which Dr. Variava stated was not on the papers at the timehe  saw	 them.	Indeed, Dr. Variava would not  have  roundlyquestioned  Dr.	 Miss  Aneeja  about  the  examination	 foracetone,  if this entry had been there, and Dr. Miss  Aneejaadmits	a portion of Dr. Variava's statement when  she	saysthat  she examined the urine on Dr.  Variava's	instructionsand484brought	 the test-tube to him, in which the urine was  of  alight green colour.Now,  the  urine chart does not show an examination  of	 theurine  at  6-30	 a.m.  According to  Dr.  Miss	Aneeja,	 sheexamined the urine, carried the impression of colour in	 hermind,  and  noted the result on the case  papers.   She	 wasquestioned  why she adopted the unusual course,	 but  statedthat it often happened that the urine chart was not preparedand the result was not taken to the case papers.  However itbe,  Dr.  Variava  is quite positive that  the	entry  aboutacetone did not exist on the case papers, and an examinationof the original shows differences in ink and pen which wouldnot have been there, bad all the three items been written atthe  same time.	 It also appears that even at 8-30 a.m.	 theurine  was examined for sugar only because the entry in	 theurine  chart shows brick-red colour which is  the  resultingcolour	 in  Benedict  test  and  not  in  Rothera's   test.Similarly, at II a.m. the urine chart shows only a test	 forsugar  because the light green colour is not  the  resultingcolour	of  Rothera's test but also of	the  Benedict  test.Indeed,	 Dr. Variava was also shown a  test-tube  containingthe  urine of slight greenish colour, and his own  inferencewas that acetone might be present in traces.  There is	thusnothing	 to  show  that	 Dr. Miss  Aneeja  embarked  upon  atreatment for diabetic coma after ascertaining the existenceof  acetone.   All  the circumstances  point  to  the  otherconclusion,  namely, that she did not examine the urine	 foracetone' and that seems to be the cause of the questions putby Dr. Variava to her.	We have no hesitation, therefore, inaccepting  Dr. Variava's evidence on this part of the  case,which is supported by the evidence of the course, the  urinechart  and the interpolation in the case papers. From  all  that we have said, it is quite  clear  that	 thetreatment  given  to  her for diabetic	coma  was  based  oninsufficient  data.   There was also no	 Kussmaul  breathing(Root & White, Diabetes Mellitus, p. 118); her breathing was20  per minute which was normal.  Nor was there any sign  ofdehydration,485because	 the skin was smooth and elastic, and  the  Babinskysign  was  a contra indication of diabetic  coma.   This  isborne  out  by	the diagnosis of Dr.  Variava  himself,	 whoappears positive that Laxmibai did not suffer from  diabeticcoma,  and is further fortified by the reasons given by	 Dr.H. Mehta (P.W. 65), to whose evidence we shall have occasionto refer later.Two  other  doctors  from  the	hospital  were	examined  inconnection  with Laxmibai's stay.  The first was Dr.  J.  C.Patel, who was then the Medical Registrar of Unit No. 1.  Itseems  that Dr. Saify, the permanent Medical Registrar,	 wason  leave  due to the illness of his father, and Dr.  J.  C.Patel  was  looking after his Unit.  Dr. J.  C.	 Patel	wentround with Dr. Variava at 11 a.m., and in his presence,	 Dr.Variava examined Laxmibai.  He has no contribution to  make,because	 he  says he does not remember anything.   The	onlypiece of evidence which he has given and which is useful forour enquiry is that in the phone book (Ex. 323) in which allcalls are entered, no call to Dr. Variava on the morning  ofthe 13th was shown.  The evidence of Dr. J. C. Patel is thususeless,  except in this little respect.  The other  doctor,Dr.  Hiralal Shah (P.  W. 72) was the Registrar of Unit	 No.2. After Laxmibai entered the hospital, Dr. Miss Aneeja senta  call to him, and he signed the call book (Ex. 322).	 Dr.Hiralal	 Shah pretended that he did not remember  the  case.He  stated that if he was called, he must have	gone  there,and  examined the patient; but he stated in the	 witness-boxthat  he did not remember anything.  All the three  doctors,Dr.  Miss  Aneeja, Dr. Patel and Dr.  Hiralal  Shah,  deniedhaving made the entry " Insulin 40 units 1. V. with 20 C. C.glucose."  Dr. Miss Aneeja says that it was written  by	 Dr.Saify,	who, as we shall show presently, was not present  inBombay at all on that day.We  do	not  propose to deal with the cause  of	 the  death,before adverting to the findings of Dr. Jhala (P.W. 66), whoperformed  the	autopsy and Dr. H. S. Mehta (P. W.  65),  towhom  all the case papers of Laxmibai were handed  over	 forexpert	 opinion.   Dr.	 Jhala	performed   the	  postmortemoperation on November 23,62486and  he was helped by his assistants.  Though the  body	 waswell-preserved	and  had been kept  in	the  air-conditionedmorgue,	 there	is  no denying the fact that  10   days	 hadpassed	between	 the death and the  postmortem	examination.The findings of Dr. Jhala were that the body and the viscerawere  not decomposed, and that an examination of  the  vitalorgans could be made.  Dr. Jhala found in the stomach 4	 oz.of  a  pasty  meal and,' oz.of whitish	precipitate  in	 thebladder.  He did not find any other substance which could besaid  to have been introduced into the system.	He  examinedthe  brain and found it congested.  There were no  marks  ofinjury on the body; the lungs were also congested and in theupper  lobe  of the left lung there was a  tubercular  focuswhich,	in  his opinion, was not sufficient to	cause  deathordinarily.   He  also found Atheroma of  aorta	 and  slightsclerosis  of the coronary.  He stated that the presence  ofthe  last  meal in the stomach indicated that there  was  novomitting.  He found no pathological lesion in the pancreas,the  kidney,  the  liver  and  any  other  internal   organ.He  gave  the  opinion after the  receipt  of  the  ChemicalAnalyser's  report  that death could have  occurred  due  todiabetic coma.It must be remembered that Dr. Jhala was not out to discoverwhether	 any  offence had been committed.  He was  making  apostmortem examination of a body which, under the  Coroner'sorder, had been handed over to the medical authorities	witha certificate from a hospital that death was due to diabeticcoma.	It  was not then a medico-legal case; the  need	 forpostmortem had arisen, because the peon had noticed  certainmarks  on the neck, which had caused some suspicion.   Afterdiscovering  that  the	mark on the neck  was  a  postmorteminjury,	 all  that he had to do was to	verify	whether	 thediagnosis  made by the G.T. Hospital that death was  due  todiabetic  coma was admissible.	He examined the body,  foundno  other  cause  of death, and the  Chemical  Analyser	 nothaving	reported the administration of poison,	he  acceptedthe diagnosis of the G. T. Hospital as correct.	 Dr.  Jhala,however, stated that there were numerous poisons which could487not  be	 detected on chemical analysis even in the  case  ofnormal, healthy and undecomposed viscera.  He admitted	thathis  opinion that death could have occurred due to  diabeticcoma  was  an  inaccurate way  of  expressing  his  opinion.According  to  him, the proper way would have been  to	havegiven the opinion death by diabetes with complications."As we have said, all these papers were placed before Dr.  H.S.  Mehta for his expert opinion.  It is to his evidence  wenow  turn  to  find  out what was  the	cause  of  death  ofLaxmibai.   In	the  middle of March  1958,  Dr.  Mehta	 wasconsulted about this case, and he was handed over copies  ofall the documents we have referred to in connection with themedical	 evidence,  together  with the	proceedings  of	 theCoroner's  inquest  at	Bombay.	  According  to	 Dr.  Mehta,opinion	 was  sought from him about the cause  of  death  of'Indumati  Paunshe' and whether it was from  diabetic  coma,any  other disease or the administration of a  poison.	 Dr.Mehta was categorical that it was not due to diabetic  coma.He  was	 also of the opinion that no natural cause  for	 thedeath was disclosed by the autopsy, and according to him, itwas   probably	 due   to   the	  administration   of	someunrecognisable poison or a recognisable poison which, due tothe  lapse  of	time, was incapable  of	 being	detected  byanalysis.   He	gave  several  reasons	for  coming  to	 theconclusion that Laxmibai did not suffer from diabetic  coma.Each of his reasons is supported by citations from  numerousstandard  medical  authorities	on the subject,	 but  it  isunnecessary to cite them once again.  According to him,	 thefollowing reasons existed for holding that Laxmibai did	 notsuffer from diabetic coma:(1)  Convulsion	 never	occur  in  diabetic  coma  per	 se.According to Dr. Mehta, the involuntary movements  describedby Dr. Ugale must be treated as convulsions or tremors.	  Weare of opinion that Dr. Ugale would not have made this	noteon  the	 case  papers if he had	 not  seen  the	 involuntarymovements.  No doubt, these involuntary movements had ceasedby the time the patient was carried to Ward No. 12,  becauseDr. Miss Aneeja made a note that they were not observed in488the Ward.  But Dr. Ugale was a much more experienced  doctorthan Dr. Miss Aneeja, and it, is possible    that  Dr.	MissAneeja	did  not  notice the symptoms  as  minutely  as	 theCasualty Medical Officer.     (2)  Diabetic  coma never occurs all of  a	 sudden	 andwithout a warning.  There are premonitary signs and symptonsof  prodromata.	 In the case, there is no evidence  to	showhow  Laxmibai  became  unconscious. We	have,  however,	 thestatement  of the appellant made both to Dr. Ugale  and	 Dr.Miss Aneeja that the onset was sudden.	Dr. Mehta was cross-examined  with	a view to eliciting that a sudden  onset  ofdiabetic coma was possible if there was an infection of	 anykind.	A  suggestion  was put to him that  if	the  patientsuffered   from	 Otitis	 Media,	 then  sometimes   the	 un-conciousness  came on suddenly.	 It may be pointed out	thatthe  appellant in his examination stated that on the day  inquestion,  Laxmibai  had  a  temperature  of  100   degrees,laryngitis, pharyngitis, and complained of pain in the	ear.That  statement was made to bring his defence in  line	withthis  suggestion.  Dr. Mehta pointed out that Dr. Jhala	 hadopened	the skull and had examined the interior	 organs	 butfound no pathological lesion there.  According to Dr. Mehta,Dr.  Jhala  would  have detected pus in the  middle  ear  ifOtitis	Media  had  existed.   The  fact  that	no  questionsuggesting this was put to Dr. Jhala shows that the  defenceis  an afterthought to induce the Court to hold	 that  deathwas  due  to diabetic coma, or, in other words,	 to  naturalcauses.	 We are inclined to accept the evidence of Dr. Jhalathat he and his assistants did not discover any pathologicallesion	in the head or the brain.  Otitis Media	 would	havecaused	inflammation of the Eustachian tube, and  pus  wouldhave  been  present.  No such question having been  put,  wemust  hold that there was no septic focus which	 might	haveinduced	 the  sudden onset of diabetic coma.   It  was	alsosuggested to Dr. Mehta that there was a tubercular infectionand  sometimes in the case of tubercular infection  diabeticcoma suddenly supervened.  The tuberculosis in this case wasnot  of	 such severity as to have caused  this.	  Dr.  Jhalareferred489to  the	 septic focus in the apex of the left lung,  but  hestated that it was riot sufficient to have caused the  deathof Laxmibai.  Illustrative cases of sudden diabetic coma  asa  result  of tubercular infection were not shown,  and	 thecondition  of Laxmibai, as deposed to by witnesses right  upto  9  p.m.  on the night of November  12,  1956,  does	 notwarrant-  the inference that she had diabetic coma  suddenlyas a result of this infection.(3)  Dr.  Mehta also stated from the case papers  maintainedby  the	 appellant from February 15, 1956, to  November	 12,1956, that during that time, Laxmibai did not appear to havesuffered from any severe type of acidosis.  The appellant inhis  examination in Court stated that Laxmibai was prone  tosuffer	from  acidosis, and that he had treated her  by	 theadministration	of Soda Bi-carb.  In the case  papers,	SodaBicarb	has  been administered only in about 8 to  10  dosesvarying between 15 grains to a dram.  It is significant thaton  most  of  the occasions it was  part  of  a	 Carminativemixture.   The	acidosis,  if any, could not  have  been  sosevere	 as  to	 have  been  corrected	by  such   a   smalladministration	of  Soda Bi-carb, because  the	acidosis  ofdiabetes is not the acidity of the stomach but the formationof  fatty  acids in the system.	 Such a	 condition,  as	 thebooks show, may be treated by the administration of Soda Bi-carb  but  in  addition to some	 other	specific  treatment.(Joslin,  Root & White, Treatment of Diabetes  Mellitus,  p.397).(4)  A	patient	 in diabetic coma  is  severely	 dehydrated.(Root  & White-Diabetes Mellitus p. 118).  We  have  alreadypointed out that there was no dehydration, because the	skinwas soft and elastic and the tongue was pink.  The eye ballswere  also  normal and were not soft, as is  invariably	 thecase in diabetic coma.	Dr. Mehta has referred to all  thesepoints.(5)  Nausea and vomiting are always present in true diabeticcoma.	There is nothing to show either from her clothes  orfrom  the  smell  of vomit in the mouth or  from  any  otherevidence that Laxmibai had vomitted in the train. Dr.  Jhalawho performed the490postmortem  examination had stated that Laxmibai  could	 nothave vomitted because in her stomach 4 oz. of pasty meal wasfound.	The same fact is also emphasised by Dr. Mehta.(6)  In diabetic coma, there will befall of blood  pressure,rapid	pulse;	 there	will  be   Kussmaul   breathing	  orair  hunger.  The respiration of Laxmibai was found  by	 Dr.Ugale  and  Dr. Miss Aneeja to be normal.   The	 temperaturechart  in the case, Ex. 129, gives in parallel	columns	 therespiration  corresponding to a particular temperature,	 andthe  temperature of 99.5 degrees (Fahrenheit) found  by	 Dr.Miss  Aneeja  corresponds  to respiration at  20  times	 perminute.	 Dr. Variava, Dr. Ugale or Dr. Miss Aneeja also	 didnot say anything about the Kussmaul breathing, and the pulseof  100 per minute according to Dr. Mehta was  justified  bythe temperature which Laxmibai then had.  Indeed,  accordingto  Dr. Mehta, in diabetic coma the skin is cold, and  therewas no reason why there should be temperature.	According toDr. Mehta, there was no evidence of any gastric disturbance,because the condition of the tongue was healthy.  Dr.  Mehtaalso  pointed  out  that the  Extensor	reflex	called	the,Babinsky  sign	was  not present  in  diabetic	coma,  whileaccording  to Dr. Miss Aneeja it was present in	 this  case.Dr. Mehta then referred to the examination of the urine	 forsugar and acetone, and stated that the examination for sugarwas  insufficient  to determine the presence  of  Ketonuria,which  is  another name for the acidosis  which	 results  incoma.	We  have  already found that  the  examination	 foracetone	 was  not made and there was no mention	 of  acetonebreath	either	by Dr. Ugale or by Dr.	Miss  Aneeja,  whichwould  have  been present if the acidosis was  so  advanced.(Root & WhiteDiabetes Mellitus, p. 118).(8)  Lastly, the examination of cerebro-spinal fluid did notshow  any  increase  of	 sugar	and  no	 affection  in	 thecategories  of	meningial irritation was  disclosed  by	 thechemical analysis of the fluid. (Physician's Hand. book, 4thEdn., pp. 115-120).  The neck rigidity which was noticed  byDr. Miss Aneeja did not have, therefore,491any  connection with such irritation, and it is	 a  questionwhether such a slight neck rigidity existed at all.These  reasons of Dr. Mehta are prefectly valid.  They	havethe support of a large number of medical treatises to  whichhe has referred and of even more. which were referred to  usduring	the arguments, all which we find it  unnecessary  toquote.	 We accept Dr. Mehta's testimony that diabetic	comadid not cause the death of Laxmibai.  It is significant thatthe  case  of  the appellant also has changed,	and  he	 hasceased	to insist now that Laxmibai died of  diabetic  coma.The  treatment	which was given to Laxmibai would  have,  ifdiabetic  coma had existed, at least improved her  conditionduring	the 5 hours that she was at the hospital.  Far	fromshowing	 the slightest improvement, Laxmibai died  within  5hours -of her admission in the hospital, and in view of	 thecontra	indications catalogued by Dr. Mehta and accepted  byus  on	an examination of the medical  authorities,  we	 arefirmly of opinion that death was not due diabetic coma.We  now deal with events that took place  immediately  afterLaxmibai  expired.  We have already shown that at that	timeDr. Variava was present and was questioning Dr. Miss  Aneejaabout  her diagnosis of diabetic coma.	Before	Dr.  Variavaleft  the  Ward,  he told Dr. Miss Aneeja that	he  was	 notsatisfied about the diagnosis, and that a postmortem examin-ation  should be asked for.  This endorsement was, in  fact,made  by Dr. Miss Aneeja on the case papers, and  the  finaldiagnosis  was left blank.  Dr. Miss Aneejia says  that	 sheleft  the  Ward at about 11-30 a.m. and was  absent  on	 herrounds	for an hour, then she returned to the Ward from	 herquarters  at  about 1 p.m. and went to the  office  of	Dr.'Mouskar,  the Resident Medical Officer.	 According  to	her,she  met Dr. Saify, the Registrar, at the door, and  he	 hadthe  case papers in his hands.	Dr. Saify told her that	 theResident Medical Officer thought that there was no need	 fora postmortem examination, as the patient was treated in	 thehospital  for  diabetic coma.  Dr. Saify  ordered  Dr.	MissAneeja to cancel the endorserment about492postmortem and to write diabetic coma as the cause of death,which  she did, in Dr. Saify's presence.  This is  Dr.	MissAneeja's explanation why the postmortem was not made, thoughordered by Dr. Variava.Dr. Mouskar's version is quite different.  According to him,the case papers arrived in his office at 1 p.m.	 He had seenthe  endorsement about the postmortem and the fact that	 thefinal  diagnosis  had not been entered	in  the	 appropriatecolumn.	  Dr.  Mouskar admitted that he did not	 proceed  tomake arrangements for the postmortem examination.  Accordingto him, the permission of the relatives and the Coroner	 wasnecessary.   He also admitted that he did not  enquire	fromthe  Honorary  Physician  about	 the  need  for	  postmortemexamination.   He was thinking, he said, of  consulting	 therelatives  and	the person who had brought Laxmibai  to	 thehospital.   Dr.	 Mouskar sent a telegram at 2  p.m.  to	 theappellant, which we have quoted earlier.  He explained	thathe  did not mention the postmortem examination,	 because  hewas  waiting for the arrival of some person  connected	withLaxmibai.   He further stated that between 4 and 5  p.m.  heasked  the police to remove the body to the J.	J.  Hospitalmorgue	and  to	 preserve  it,	and  sent  a  copy  of	 hisrequisition  to the Coroner.  According to him, on the	15ththe  Coroner's	office	asked the  hospital  for  the  finaldiagnosis  in the case.	 He stated that he asked one out  ofthe  three: Honorary Physician, the Registrar or  the  HousePbysician,-about  the final diagnosis, though he  could	 notsay which one.	He had sent the papers through the  call-boyfor  writing the final diagnosis, and he received  the	casepapers from the Unit, with the two corrections, namely,	 thecancellation  of the requisition for postmortem	 examinationand  the entry of diabetic coma as the final diagnosis.	  Hedenied	that  he had any talk with Dr. Saify  regarding	 thepostmortem examination.It,would  appear from this that there are vital	 differencesin  the	 versions of Dr. Miss Aneeja and Dr.  Mouskar..	 Thefirst  contradiction  is the date on which the	case  paperswere   corrected   and	the  second,   about   Dr.   SaifY'sintervention in the matter.  Dr. SaifY,493fortunately for him, had obtained leave orders and had	leftBombay on November 8, 1956, for Indore, where his father wasseriously ill.	He was, in fact, detained at Indore, becausehis  father suffered from an attack of coronary	 thrombosis,and  he	 had to extend his leave.  All the  relevant  papersconnected  with his leave have been produced, and  it  seemsthat  Dr.  Saify's name was introduced by  Dr.	Miss  Aneejaeither to avoid taking responsibility for correction, on herown, of the papers, or to shield some other person, who	 hadcaused	her to make the corrections.  Here, the	 only  otherperson, who could possibly have ordered her was the ResidentMedical Officer, Dr. Mouskar, who at 1 p.m. had received thepapers	and  had seen the endorsement about  the  postmortemexamination.   Dr.  Mouskar's explanation that he  sent	 thetelegram  to  the  appellant for the  removal  of  the	bodywithout	 informing him about the postmortem  examination  istoo ingenious to be accepted by any reasonable person.	 Dr.Mouskar	 could not ordinarily countermand what the  HonoraryPhysician had said without at least consulting him, which headmits	he  did not do.	 This is more so, if it was  only  amatter	 of   the  hospital's	reputation.    Whether	 thecorrections  were made by Dr. Miss Aneeja in the wards	whenthe  call-boy took the papers to her (a most  unusal  coursefor  Dr. Mouskar to have adopted) or whether they were	madeby Dr. Miss Aneeja in the office of Dr. Mouskar, to the doorof which, she admits she had gone, the position remains	 thesame.  Dr. Miss Aneeja no doubt told lies, but she did so inher  own  interest.  She could not  cancel  the	 requisitionabout  postmortem  examination on her own without  facing  agrave  charge  in  which Dr. Mouskar  would  have  played  aconsiderable  part.  The fact that this correction  did	 nottrouble Dr. Mouskar and that his dealings with the body weremost  unusual  points  clearly	to its	being  made  at	 hisinstance.   Dr.	 Miss Aneeja invented the  story  about	 Dr.Saify  as  a  last  resort knowing  that  unless  she  namedsomebody the responsibility would be hers.  The	 correctionswere  made  at	the instance of	 Dr.  Mouskar,	because	 Dr.Mouskar admits that he sent the papers to the63494     Ward for final diagnosis in the face of the endorsementfor  postmortem	 examination,  and Dr.	Miss  Aneeja  admitsmaking the corrections at the door of Dr. Mouskar's  office.In  our	 opinion,  both of them	 are  partly  correct.	 Dr.Mouskar made the first move in getting the papers corrected,and  Dr. Miss Aneeja corrected them not at the door  of	 theoffice,	 because  there was no Dr. Saify there	but  in	 theoffice,	 though she had not the courage to name Dr.  Mouskaras the person who had ordered the correction.  Dr. Mouskar'stelegram and his sending the body to another morgue  withoutthe postmortem examination show only too clearly that it washe who caused the change to be made.  It is also a  questionwhether the correction about 'acetone + + 'was not also madesimultaneously.	 We do not believe that the corrections weremade  as late as November 15, because his telegram  for	 theremoval	 of the dead body and its further removal to the  J.J.  Hospital  would  not fit in	 with  the  endorsement	 forpostmortem examination on the case papers.Now,  the  question  is not whether  Dr.  Mouskar  made	 thecorrection or Dr. Miss Aneeja, but whether the appellant hadanything  to  do with it.  Dr. Miss Aneeja stated  that	 theappellant was present till the visit of Dr. Variava was overand this is borne out by the reply of the appellant, becausein  the	 inland letter he mentioned the time  of  the  deathwhich the telegram did not convey to him and which he  couldhave  only  known  if he was present in	 the  hospital.	  Webelieve Dr. Miss Aneeja when she says that the appellant waspresent	 at the hospital, and the circumstances of the	caseunerringly  point  to  the conclusion that he  knew  of	 thedemand for a postmortem examination.  Though Dr. Mouskar andthe  appellant	denied	that they met, there  is  reason  tobelieve	 that  the  appellant  knowing	of  the	  postmortemexamination  would  not	 go away  without  seeing  that	 thepostmortem examination was duly carried out or was given up.Dr.  Mouskar and the appellant both admitted that they	weretogether  in  the same class in 1934 in the  S	P.  College,Poona, though both of them denied that495they were acquainted with each other.  Dr. Mouskar stayed inPoona from 1922 to 1926, 1931 to 1936 and 1948 to 1951.	 Theappellant  was	practising at Poona as a doctor, and  it  isimprobable  that  they	did not get  acquainted	 during	 Dr.Mouskar's   stay,  belonging,  as  they	 do,  to  the	sameprofession.   Dr.  Mouskar  further  tried  to	support	 theappellant  by  saying that at 1 p.m. when he  saw  the	casepapers	the entry about acetone was read by him.  He  forgotthat   in  the	examinationin-chief  he	 had   stated	verydefinitely  that he had not read the case papers  fully	 andhad  only  seen	 the top page.	When he was  asked  for	 hisexplanation,  he  could not account for his conduct  in	 thewitness-box, and admitted his mistake.	There are two  othercircumstances  connected  with	Dr.  Mouskar,  which  exciteconsiderable  suspicion.   The first is	 that  he  mentionedhysterical fits as the illness from which Laxmibai  sufferedwhen  Dr.  Ugale had questioned it and postmortem  had	beenasked for to establish the cause of death.  The next is thatthe  call  book	 of  the hospital for  the  period  was	 notproduced  by  him  as long as he was  in  office.   When  heretired, the call book was brought in by his successor,	 andit  established the very important fact that it was not	 Dr.Saify, the Registrar, who was summoned but Dr. Shah, who hadalso  signed the call book in token of having  received	 thecall.  Dr. Mouskar's conduct as the Resident Medical Officerin  having the postmortem examination cancelled was a  greatlapse, and it is quite obvious to us that the finding by thetwo  Courts below that this was done at the request  of	 theappellant  is the only inference possible in the case.	 Thealternative  suggestion in the argument of  the	 appellant'scounsel that Dr. Mouskar thought that Dr. Variava was making" a mountain out of a mole hill " and that " the  reputationof  the	 hospital  was involved " does	not  appeal  to	 us,because if that had been the motive, Dr. Mouskar would	havetalked	to  Dr.	 Variava and asked him	to  revise  his	 ownopinion.  The cancellation of the requisition for postmortemexamination  came to Dr. Variava as a surprise,	 because  hestated that he had heard nothing about it.496From  the  above  analysis of the evidence,  we	 accept	 thefollowing  facts: The appellant was present in the  hospitaltill the death of Laxmibai, and in his presence, Dr. Variavaexamined Laxmibai and questioned the	diagnosis   of	 Dr.Miss  Aneeja  and gave the instructions for  the  postmortemexamination.   Dr. Variava's stay was only for	15  minutes,and  at the end of it, Laxmibai expired.  The  statement  ofthe appellant that he caught the 10-30 train from Bombay  toPoona because he was asked by the Matron to leave the femaleward,  and that he was going back to get a female  attendantfrom  Poona, is entirely false.	 He took no action  about  afemale attendant either in Bombay or in Poona, and he  couldnot  have left by the 10-30 train if he was present  in	 thehospital till 11-30 a.m. We are also satisfied that Dr. MissAneeja	did not cancel the endorsement about the  postmortemexamination  on her own responsibility.	 She was ordered  todo so.	We are also satisfied that it was not Dr. Saify	 whohad given this order, but it must have been Dr. Mouskar, whodid  so.   We are also satisfied that Dr.  Mouskar  did	 notinduce	Dr. Miss Aneeja to cancel the postmortem by  sendingthe  case papers through the call-boy of her Ward,  but	 shewas summoned to the office, to the door of which she  admitsshe had gone.  We are, therefore, in agreement with the	 twoCourts	below  that Dr. Mouskar caused these changes  to  bemade,  and that Dr. Miss Aneeja did not have the courage  toname  the Resident Medical Officer, and lied by	 introducingthe  name  of  Dr. Saify.  We are also	satisfied  that	 Dr.Mouskar	 and the appellant were acquainted with	 each  othernot  only when they were in College together but  they	musthave  known  each other, when Dr. Mouskar  was	residing  atPoona.	 The cancellation of the postmortem examination	 wascaused	by the appellant, because Dr. Mouskar's	 explanationon  this part of the case is extremely	unsatisfactory,	 andhis  failure  to  consult  Dr. Variava, if  it	was  only  ahospital matter, is extremely significant.  The	 appellant'simmediate exit from the hospital and the telegram to him  atPoona show that Dr. Mouskar knew where the appellant was  tobe497found.	 The  telegram conveyed to the	appellant  that	 thepostmortem was not to be held, because it said that the bodyshould be immediately removed.Now,  the appellant, as we have said, took no  action  aboutLaxmibai's  death and kept this information to himself.	  Hedid  not also arrange for the removal of the body.  He	sentan  inland letter which, he knew would take a day or two  toreach  the hospital.  He knew that the body would  be  lyingunclaimed  at the hospital, and that the hospital could	 nothold  the  body for ever without taking	 some  action.	 Theappellant   is	a  doctor.   He	 has  studied	in   medicalinstitutions   where  bodies  are  brought  for	  dissectionpurposes, and he must be aware that there is an Anatomy Act,under  which  unclaimed bodies are handed over	to  Collegesafter 48 hours for dissection.	He also knew that the  causeof  death would become more and more difficult to  determineas time passed on, and it is quite clear that the  appellantwas banking on these two circumstances for the avoidance  ofany detection into the cause of death.	He had also seen  toit that the postmortem examination would not be made, and heknew  that if the body remained unclaimed, then it would  bedisposed of in accordance with the Anatomy Act.	 He wrote  aletter	which he knew would reach the hospital	authorities,and  he named a fictitious brother who, he said,  could	 notarrive before the 16th from Calcutta.  This delay would havegained	him  three valuable days between the death  and	 anylikely examination, and if the body remained unclaimed, thenit  was likely to be disposed of in the manner laid down  inthe Anatomy Act.  The anticipations of the appellant were soaccurate  that the body followed the identical course  whichhe  had planned for it, and it is an accident that ten	dayslater	a  postmortem  examination  was	 made,	because	  anobservant  peon	 noticed  some mark on	the  neck  which  hethought,  was suspicious.  But for this, it would have	beenimpossible  to trace what happened to Laxmibai, because	 thehospital papers would have been filed, the body dissected bymedical	 students  and	disposed of and	 the  relatives	 andfriends	 kept in the dark about the whereabouts of  Laxmibaiby spurious letters.498This brings us to another piece of conduct which we have  toview.	When Laxmibai boarded the train, she had  a  beddingand  a bag with her, which she was seen carrying at the	 Parby Patil (P.  W. 60) on the night she left Poona.  There  isa   mass   of  evidence	 that  Laxmibai	 was   in   affluentcircumstances, and always wore on her person gold and  pearlornaments.  There is also evidence that she had taken Rs. 50from -Virkar the night she travelled, and presumbly she	 wascarrying  some	more  money with her,  because	she  had  toconsult	 a specialist in Bombay and money would be  requiredto pay him.  When she reached the hospital in the company ofthe appellant, she had no ornaments on her person, no  moneyin  her	 possession  and  her  bag  and	 bedding  had	alsodisappeared.   As  a matter of fact, there  was	 nothing  toidentify  her or to distinguish her from any other  indigentwoman  in  the street.	There is no  explanation  which	 anyreasonable  person  can accept as to what  happened  to	 herbelongings.   It  is possible that the bag and	the  beddingmight  have been forgotten in the hurry to take her  to	 thehospital, but her gold ornaments on her person could not  sodisappear.   The  appellant stated that he noticed  for	 thefirst  time  in the taxi that she had no  ornaments  on	 herperson;	 but there would be no need for him to	notice	thisfact if Laxmibai started without any ornaments whatever.  Inview of the fact that Laxmibai's entire property soon passedinto  the hands of the appellant, it is reasonable  to	holdthat  he  would	 not overlook the valuable  gold  and  pearlornaments  in  this context.  Further, the  absence  of	 theornaments and other things to identify Laxmibai rendered heranonymity complete, in so far as the hospital was concerned,unless	information  to	 that  end  was	 furnished  by	 theappellant  only.   In the event of Laxmibai's death  in	 thehospital, no complication would arise if she did not possessany property and the body would be treated as unclaimed,  ifnone appeared to claim it. In addition to the stripping of the lady of her belongings,the appellant took measures to keep her499identity  a close secret.  No doubt, he gave her name  as  "Indumati  ",  but  he added to it her maiden  surname  in  agarbled form.  According to Dr. Ugale, the name given was  "Paunshe	 ".  - In every one of the other  papers,  the	nameappears	 to  have  been corrected by the  addition  of	someletter	resembling  Ilk " but not in the case  papers.	 Dr.Ugale  swore  that  he had not heard the name  "  Paunshe  "before,	 though	 his  mother-tongue is Marathi,	 and  he  ishimself a Maharashtrian.  He, therefore, asked the appellantto  spell the name, and he was definite that -the  name	 waswritten as spelt by the appellant.  There is, however, otherevidence  coming from the appellant himself to show that  hedid  not  give	the correct  maiden  surname  of  -Laxmibai,because	 in  the  letter he wrote to the  hospital  he	onlystated that there was an extra " u " in the name as  enteredin the papers but did not mention anything about " k ".	 Hissolicitude  about  the	name and its spelling  in  the	casepapers clearly shows that his mind even under the stress  ofthese  circumstances  was upon one fact only that  the	nameshould	remain	either	" Paunshe " or " Panshe	 "  and	 notbecome	" Ponkshe ". Indeed, one would expect the  appellantto  have  given the name " Laxmibai Karve "  or	 "  IndumatiKarve  " instead of " Indumati Ponkshe ", and much  less,  "Indumati  Paunshe  ".  There must be  some  reason  for	 theappellant  choosing the maiden surname, even if he gave	 thecorrect maiden name.  The reason appears to be this:  Eitherhe had to say at the hospital that he did not know the name,or  he	had to give some name.	If he said that he  did	 notknow the name, it would have caused some suspicion, and	 thematter would then have been entered in the emergency  policecase  register.	  This is deposed to by the doctors  in	 thehospital.  By giving the name, he avoided this	contingency.By  giving  a garbled name, he avoided the identity,  if  bychance	that  name came to the notice of some one  who	knewLaxmibai.   His	 intention can only be	interpreted  in	 thelight of his subsequent conduct and the use to which be	 putthis  altered  name.  We have already seen that he  did	 thefact of death from every500one and wrote to people that the woman was alive. He had twoopportunities of correcting this name  which he had  noticedvery  carefully on the case papers.  The first was  when  hewrote the letter to the hospital in which he insisted that "u  " should be omitted but did not add " k ". The other	 waswhen  on  the 16th the police questioned him and  he  statedthat  he did not know who the woman was.  He also  gave	 theage  of the woman wrongly, and perhaps,	 deliberately  :-seethe  correction	 and overwritings in the  inland  letter  hewrote  on November 14, 1956. Immediately after the death  ofLaxmibai,   he	misappropriated	 a  sum	 of  Rs.  5,000	  bypresenting   two  documents,  Exs.  285	 and  286,   withoutdisclosing  to the Bank that the person who had	 issued	 thecheque	was no more.  All this subsequent conduct gets	tiedto his conduct in giving the name as " Indumati Paunshe " or"  Panshe  "; and it shows a foreknowledge of  what  was  tohappen	to  Indumati  at  the hospital.	  It  also  shows  apreparation  for keeping the fact of her death	hidden	fromothers	to facilitate the misappropriation of her  property,which  as  we  know, eventually	 took  place  starting	fromNovember  15, that is to say, two days following her  death.No  explanation worth considering exists why this  name	 wasgiven, and the effort of the counsel for the appellant	thathe was probably on intimate terms with Laxmibai and chose tocall her by her maiden name rather than her married name  isbelied by the fact that in every document in which the	namehas been mentioned by the appellant, he has adderssed her asLaxmibai  Karve	 and not as Indumati Ponkshe.  There  is  noevidence  that	this elderly lady was anything more  than  afoolishly trusting friend of this man who took advantage  ofher in every way.Then,  there  is  the  conduct	of  the	 appellant  in	 notdisclosing  to	the  hospital authorities  the	entire	casehistory	 of  Laxmibai and the treatment which  he  had	beengiving her as her medical attendant.  Instead of telling thedoctor all the circumstances of her health, he told him thatthe  woman was suffering from hysterical fits,	which  fits,according to the501evidence in the case, did not recur after 1948.	 He also didnot give any particulars of the onset of unconsciousness  inthe  train.  Even the fact that Laxmibai had  suffered	fromdiabetes  for some years was not mentioned, and	 this  showsthat  he  was  intent upon the	medical	 attendants  in	 thehospital  treating the case from a scratch and fumbling	 it,if  possible.  To him, it appears to us, it was a matter  ofutter  indifference  what  treatment was given	to  her,  anattitude  which	 he  continued to  observe  even  after	 hispatient had died.  In our opinion, therefore, the conduct atthe hospital appears significantly enough to suggest that heanticipated that Laxmibai was doomed, and he was intent uponseeing	to  it that no one but himself should  know  of	 herdeath  and  that a quiet disposal of her  body	should	takeplace.We  may	 mention here one other fact, and that is  that	 theG.T. Hospital, is situatted at a distance of 5 or 6 furlongsfrom the Victoria Terminus Station, whereas the St. George'sHospital  is  said to be only 50 feet away  from   the	mainentrance.   Why an unconscious woman was carried first on  astretcher  and then in a taxi to this distant hospital	whenshe could have been carried straight to the hospital on	 thestretcher  itself,  is not explained.  There is	 of  course,this  significant fact that at the St. George's Hospital  hewould not have been able to pull his weight with the medicalauthorities,  which  he	 was able to  do  with	Dr.  Mouskarbecause of his acquaintance with him.  This choosing of	 thehospital is of a piece with the choosing of an	inconvenienttrain  which would make detection difficult, arrival at	 thehospital when it would be closed except for emergency cases,and  the  patient  likely to be waited upon  by	 a  raw	 andinexperienced doctor in the early hours of the morning.	 We,however, cannot say this too strongly, because it is  likelythat Laxmibai herself chose to travel by a night train.	 Butthe whole of the conduct of the appellant prior to the deathof Laxmibai appears to be of a piece with his conduct  afterher  death, and we are satisfied that even before her  entryinto  the hospital, the appellant had planned this  line  ofconduct.64     502Our  findings thus substantially accord on all the  relevantfacts  with  those  of	the two	 Courts	 below,	 though	 thearrangement  and consideration of the relevant	evidence  onrecord	is  somewhat  different.  It  is  now  necessary  toconsider the arguments which have been advanced on behalf ofthe  appellant.	 The first contention is that the  essentialingredients required to be proved in all cases of murder  bypoisoning were not proved by the prosecution in this case.Reference  in this connection. is made to a decision of	 theAllahabad High Court in Mst.  Gujrani v. Emperor (1) and twounreported decisions of this Court in Chandrakant  NyalchandSeth  v.  The, State of Bombay(2) decided  on  February	 19,1958, and Dharambir Singh v. The State of Punjab (3) decidedon November 4, 1958.  In these cases, the Court referred  tothree propositions which the prosecution must establish in acase  of poisoning: (a) that death took place by  poisoning;(b) that the accused had the poison in his possession ;	 and(c)  that the accused had an opportunity to  administer	 thepoison to the deceased.	 The case in Dharambir Singh V.	 TheState  of Punjab (3) turned upon these	three  propositions.There,	the  deceased had died as a result of  poisoning  bypotassium  cyanide,  which  poison was	also  found  in	 theautopsy.  The High Court had disbelieved the evidence  whichsought to establish that the accused had obtained  potassiumcyanide,  but  held, nevertheless, that	 the  circumstantialevidence was sufficient to convict the accused in that case.This  Court  did  not, however,	 accept	 the  circumstantialevidence  as complete.	It is to be observed that the  threepropositions  were laid down not as the invariable  criteriaof  proof  by  direct  evidence	 in  a	case  of  murder  bypoisoning,  because evidently if  after	 poisonidgthevictim,the  accused  destroyed all traces of the  body,  the  firstproposition  would  be incapable of being proved  except  bycircumstantial	evidence.  Similarly, if the accused gave  avictim something: to eat and the victim died immediately  onthe ingestion of that food with symptoms of poisoning and(1) A.I.R. 1933 All. 394.	(2) Cr.	 A. No. 120 Of 1957.(3) Cr. k. No. 98 of 1958.503poison,	 in fact, was found in the viscera, the	 requirementof  proving  that the accused was possessed  of	 the  poisonwould  follow  from the circumstance that accused  gave	 thevictim	something to eat and need not be separately  proved.There  have been cases in which conviction  was	 maintained,even   though  the  body  of  the  victim   had	  completelydisappeared,  and  it  was  impossible	to  say,  except  oncircumstantial evidence, whether that person was the  victimof foul play, including poisoning.  Recently, this Court  inMohan  v.  State of U. P. (1) decided on November  5,  1959,held that the proof of the fact of possession of the  poisonwas rendered unnecessary, because the victim died soon aftereating	pedas given by the accused in that case, and he	 hadnot  partaken any other food likely to contain	poison.	  InDr. Palmer's case (2) , strychnine was not detected, and theaccused	 was convicted by the jury after Lord Chief  JusticeCampbell (Cresswell, J. and Mr. Baron Alderson-, concurring)charged	 the  jury  that  the discovery	 of  the  poison  onautopsy,  was not obligatory, if they were satisfied on	 theevidence  of  symptoms	that death had been  caused  by	 theministration  of  the strychnine.  The	conduct	 of  Palmer,which was also significant, was stressed inasmuch as he	 hadattempted  to thwart a successful chemical analysis  of	 theviscera,  and had done suspicious acts to achieve that	end.In  Dr. Crippen's case (3), the conduct of the	accusedafterthe  death  of	Mrs.  Crippen  in  making  the	friends	 andrelatives believe that Mrs. Crippen was alive was consideredan  incriminatory  circumstance pointing to his	 guilt.	  Nodoubt,	in  Dr. Crippen's case (3), the body was  found	 andpoison was detected, but there was no proof that Dr. Crippenhad administered the poison to her, that being inferred fromhis  subsequent conduct in running away with Miss  Le  Neve.In the second case of this Court, the poison was  availiableto the victim, and it was possible that she had taken it  toend an unhappy life.The  cases of this Court which were decided, proceeded	upontheir own facts, and though the three(1) Cr.	 A. No. 108 of 1959.	(2) Notable Trials Series.(3) Notable Trials Series.504propositions must be kept in mind always, the sufficiency ofthe evidence, direct or circumstantial, to establish  murderby poisoning will depend on the facts of each case.  If	 theevidence  in  a	 particular case does  of  not	justify	 theinference  that death is the result of poisoning because  ofthe   failure	of  the	 prosecution  to  prove	  the	factsatisfactorily,	  either  directly  or	 by   circumstantialevidence,  then	 the benefit of the doubt will	have  to  begiven	to  the	 accused  person.   But	 if   circumstantialevidence,  in  the  absence of direct  proof  of  the  threeelements,  is so decisive that the Court can  unhesitatinglyhold  that  death was a result of administration  of  poison(though	 not  detected) and that the poison must  have	beenadministered by the accused person, then the conviction	 canbe rested on it.In a recent case decided in England in the Court of CriminalAppeal	(Regina v. Onufrejczyk- (1), the body of the  victimwas  not found at all.	And, indeed, there was	no  evidencethat  he  had died, much less was murdered.   The  accused'sconduct	 in  that  case which was held	decisive,  was	verysimilar to the conduct of the present appellant.  He was  inmonetary difficulties, and the victim was his partner,	whomhe  wished to buy out but did not have the money to  do	 so.One fine day, the partner disappeared, and his body was	 notfound,	and it was not known what had happened to him.	 Theactivities  of	the accused after the disappearance  of	 hispartner were very -remarkable.	To people who enquired	fromhim about his partner, he told all manner of lies as -to howa large and dark car had arrived in the night and that threemen bad carried off his partner at the point of a  revolver.To a sheriff 's officer he stated that his partner had	goneto see a doctor.  He also asked a lady to send him some shamregistered  letters and forged other documents.	 Lord  ChiefJustice	 Goddard  stated the law to be that in a  trial	 formurder, the fact of death could be proved by  circumstantialevidence  alone,  provided  the jury were  warned  that	 theevidence  must	lead to one conclusion only, and  that	eventhough	there  was no body or even trace of a  body  or	 anydirect evidence as to(1)  [1955] 1.Q.B 388.505the  manner  of the death of a victim,	the  corpus  delicticould  be  held	 to be proved by a number  of  facts,  whichrendered  the commission of the crime certain. pertinent  toremember  that	Lord Goddard observer during the  course  ofargument  that	there was no virtue in the  words  "  directevidence ", and added:"It would be going a long way, especially these days when weknow what can be done with acid, to say that there cannot bea conviction without some proof of a body.  If you are rightyou  have  to admit that a successful disposal of  the	bodycould prevent a conviction."It is obvious that Lord Goddard had in mind the case of JohnGeorge Haigh (1) who, as is notorious, disposed of bodies bysteeping  them in acid bath, destroying all traces.  It	 is,in this context, instructive to read a case from Now Zealandto  which Lord Goddard also referred, where the body of	 thevictim	was  never  found,  The King  v.  Horry	 (2  ).	 Thestatement of the law as to proof of corpus delicti laid downby Gresson,J. (concurred in by Fair, A.C.J., Stanton, J. andHay,  J.)  was	approved by Lord  Goddard  with	 one  slightchange.	 The statement of the law (head-note) is as  follows:" At the trial of a person charged with murder, the fact  ofdeath	 is    provable	   by	 circumstantial	   evidence,notwithstanding	 that neither the body nor any trace of	 thebody  has  been	 found, and that the  accused  has  made  noconfession of any participation in the crime.  Before he canbe  convicted,	the fact of death should be proved  by	suchcircumstances as render the commission of the crime  morallycertain	 and  leave  no ground	for  reasonable	 doubt:	 thecircumstantial	evidence should be so cogent and  compellingas to convince a jury that upon no rational hypothesis otherthan murder can the facts be accounted for."Lord Goddard did not agree with the words " morally  certain"  and	stated that he would have preferred to	say  "	suchcircumstances as render the commissionof the crime certain."(1)  Notable Trials Series.(2) [1952) N.Z.L.R. 111.506The  same  test	 has been applied by Wills in  his  Book  onCircumstantial Evidence, and the author has quoted the	caseof  Donellan (1), where the conduct of Donellan	 in  rinsingout a bottle in spite of the wife of  the victim asking	 himnot to touch those bottles, was	   treated    as   a	verysignificant evidence of guilt.	Butler, J., charged the jurythat:   "  if there was a doubt upon the evidence of the  physicalwitnesses  they must take into their consideration  all	 theother  circumstances  either to show that there	 was  poisonadministered  or that there was not, and that every part  ofthe prisoner's conduct was material to be considered."Similarly,  in Donnall's case (2 ), Abbot, J., according  toWills, in summing up, said to the jury that: "there were twoimportant  questions: first did the deceased die of  poison?and if they should be of opinion that she did, then  whetherthey  were satisfied from the evidence that the	 poison	 wasadministered  by the prisoner or by his means.	 There	weresome  parts  of the evidence which appeared to	him  equallyapplicable  to	both questions, and those  parts  were	whatrelated	 to the conduct of the prisoner during the  time  ofthe  opening and inspection of the body; his  recommendationof a shell and the early burial; to which might be added thecircumstances,	not much to be relied upon, relative to	 hisendeavours  to	evade his apprehension.	 His  Lordship	alsosaid,  as  to  the question whether  the  deceased  died  bypoison, I in considering what the medical men have said uponthe  one side and the other, you must take into account	 theconduct	 of the prisoner in urging a hasty funeral  and	 hisconduct	 in throwing away the contents of the jug  into	 thechamber utensil'."In  Rex v. Horry (3), where the entire case law	 in  Englandwas  presented	for the consideration of the Court,  it	 waspointed	 out by the Court that there was no rule in  Englandthat  corpus  delicti  must be	proved	by  direct  evidenceestablishing the death of the person(1) Gurneys Rep. (1781)		(2) (1817) 2 C. & K 308n.(3) [1952] N.Z.L.R. 111.507and further, the cause of that death.  Reference was made toEvans  v.  Evans(1),  where it was ruled  that	that  corpusdelicti	 might	be  proved  by	direct	evidence  or  by   "irresistible grounds of presumption ". In the same case,  ithas  been pointed out that in New Zealand the  Court  upheldnumerous convictions, where the body of the victim was neverfound.The  rule of law stated by Sir Matthew Hale in Pleas of	 theCrown Vol. 2, p. 290 that " I would never convict any personof murder or manslaughter, unless the fact were proved to bedone, or at least the body found dead " was not accepted  inthis  and  other  bases.  Lord	Goddard	 also  rejected	 thestatement  as one of universal application, in the  case  towhich we have already referred.The  case  of  Mary  Ann  Nash(2)  is  illustrative  of	 theproposition  that  even though the cause of  death  may	 notappear	 to   be  established  by   direct   evidence,	 thecircumstances of the case may be sufficient to infer that  amurder	has been committed.  In that case, the prisoner	 hadan illegitmate son, 5 years old.  There was evidence to showthat  the  mother desired to put the child out of  her	way.One  day  in  June,  1907, the mother  left  the  house	 andreturned without the child.  She made several statements  asto  what had happened to the child, which were found  to  beuntrue.	  As  late as April 1908, the body of  a  child	 wasdiscovered  in	a well.	 Decomposition had so  far  advancedthat  even  the sex of the child could	not  be	 determined.There  was  nothing  therefore to  show	 whether  death	 wasnatural	 or  violent, or whether it had occurred  before  orafter the body was put into the well.  The case was left  tothe  jury.  On appeal, it was contended that there being  noproof  how death took place, the judge should not have	leftthe  case to the Jury but ought to have withdrawn it.	LordChief Justice delivering the judgment of the Court of Appealreferred to the untrue statements of the prisoner about	 thewherebouts of the child, and observed as follows:"  All these statements were untrue.  She bad an  object  ingetting rid of the child, and if it had been(1) 161 E.R. 466, 491.(2) (1911) 6 Cr.  App.	R. 225.508lost or met with an accidental death, she had every interestin  saying so at once.	It is said there is no	evidence  ofviolent death, but we cannot accept that Mr. Goddard  cannothave meant that there must be proof from the body itself  ofa  violent death. . . . In view of the facts that the  childleft  home  well  and was afterwards found  dead,  that	 theappellant was last seen with it, and made untrue  statementsabout it, this is not a case which could have been withdrawnfrom the jury."There is no difference between a trial with the help of	 thejury and a trial by a Judge in so far as the appraisement ofevidence  is concerned.	 The value of the evidence  in	eachcase must necessarily be the same.  If the case of Mary	 AnnNash  (1) could be left to the jury, here too the  case	 hasbeen  decided by the two Courts below  concurrently  againstthe  appellant on evidence on which theY could	legitimatelyreach  the conclusion whether an offence of murder had	beenestablished or not.A  case	 of  murder by administration of  poison  is  almostalways	one of secrecy.	 The poisoner seldom  takes  anotherinto his confidence, and his preparations to the  commissionof the offence are also secret.	 He watches his	 opportunityand  administers the poison in a manner calculated to  avoidits  detection.	 The greater his knowledge of  poisons,	 thegreater	 the  secrecy,	and  consequently  the	greater	 thedifficulty of proving the case agaisnt him.  What assistancea  man of science can give he gives; but it is too  much  tosay  that  the guilt of the accused must, in all  cases,  bedemonstrated  by  the isolation of the poison, though  in  acase  where  there is nothing else such a  course  would  beincumbent  upon the prosecution.  There are various  factorswhich militate against a successsful isolation of the poisonand  its recognition.  The discovery of the poison can	onlytake  place either through a postmortem examination  of	 theinternal organs or by chemical analysis.  Often enough,	 thediagnosis of a poison is aided by the information which	 maybe furnished by relatives and friends as to the symptoms1 161 E R. 466	491509found on the victim, if the course of poison has taken	longand  others have had an opportunity of watching its  effect.Where,	however, the poision is administered in secrecy	 andthe  victim  is rendered unconscious effectively,  there  isnothing	 to show how the deterioration in the  condition  ofthe  victim  took  place and if not poison  but	 disease  issuspected,  the	 diagnosis  of	poisoning  may	be  rendereddifficult.   In Chapman's case(1), the victim  (Maud  Marsh)was sent to Guy's Hospital, where the doctors diagnosed	 hercondition  to be due to various- maladies  including  cancerumatism	 and acute dyspepsiaIt is clear that doctors can  bedeceived by thesymptoms	 of poison into believing  tHatthey  have  a  genuine case of sickness	 on  hand.   In	 Dr.Palmer's  case	(2), two medical witnesses for	the  defencediagnosed the case from the symptoms as being due to  AnginaPectoris or epilepsy with tetanic complications.The  reason  for all this is obvious.  Lambert in  his	book"The  Medico-Legal Post-Mortem in India (pp. 96,99.100)	 hasstated	that  the  pathologist's part in  the  diagnosis  ofpoisoning  is  secondary,  and	has  further  observed	thatseveral poisons particularly of the synthetic hypnotics	 andvegetable  alkaloids groups do not leave any  characteristicsigns  which can be noticed on postmortem examination.	 SeeModi's Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology, 13th Edn.,	 pp.450-451	 and  Taylor's Principles and  Practice	 of  MedicalJurisprudence,	Vol. ll,p. 229.	 The same is stated by	OttoSaphir	in  his	 book  " Autopsy " at pp.  71  and  72.	  InDreisbach's  Handbook  of Poisons. 1955, it is	stated	thatpathological findings in deaths from narcotic analgesics arenot characteristic.  He goes further and says that even	 thelaboratory  findings are non-contributory.  The position  ofthe  pathologist who conducts a postmortem  examination	 hasbeen  summed  up  by  Modi  in	Medical	 Jurisprudence	 andToxicology, 13th edn., p. 447 as follows:"  In  order to make a probable guess of the poison  and  tolook  for its characteristic postmortem appearances,  it  isadvisable that a medical officer, before(1)  Notable Trials Series.(2) Notable Trials Series.65510commencing  a  postmortem  examination	on  the	 body  of  asuspected    case    of	  poisoning,   should	 read	 thepolice	report and endeavour to get as much  information  aspossible    from    the	  relatives    of    the    deceasedregarding   the	  quality  and	quantity   of	the   poisonadministered,  the character of the symptoms with  referenceto their onset and the time that elapsed between the  takingof the poison and the development of the first symptoms, theduration  of the illness, nature of the	 treatment  adopted,and the time of death.	He will find that in most cases	 theaccount	 supplied  by the police and the relatives  is	verymeagre,	  or  incorrect	 and  misleading.   His	  task	 is,therefore,  very  difficult,  especialy	 when  many  of	 thepoisons	 except	 corrosives and irritants do  not  show	 anycharacteristic	postmortem signs and when bodies are  in  anadvanced state of decomposition . . . ".Similarly, Gonzales in Legal Medicine and Toxicology  statesat p. 629:"  The	question of whether or not  a  negative	 toxicologicexamination  is	 consistent  with death	 by  poison  can  beanswered  affirmatively, as may persons overcome  by  carbonmonoxide die after twenty-four hours, at which time the	 gascannot	be  determined	in  the	 blood	by  chemical  tests.Likewise,  the organs of individuals who have been  poisonedby  phosphorus may not contain the toxic substance  respons-ible  for death if they have managed to survive its  effectsfor several days.Many  conditions  seriously interfere with  the	 toxicologicexamination, such as postmortem decomposition . . . . ".We  need  not multiply authorities, because  every  book  ontoxicology  begins  with  a statement of such  a  fact.	  Ofcourse,	 there is a chemical test for almost  every  poison,but  it is impossible to expect a search for  every  poison.Even  in  chemical analysis, the chemical  analyser  may  beunsuccessful for various reasons.  Taylor in his  Principlesand Practice of Medical Jurisprudence, Vol. 11, p. 228 gives-three	possible explanations for negative  findings,  viz.,(1) the case511may have been of disease only; (2) the poison may have	beeneliminated  by	vomitting or other means or  neutralised  ormetabolised;  and  (3) the analysis may have  been  faultilyperformed.  Svensson Wendel in Crime Detection has stated atp. 281 that:"  Hypnotics are decomposed and disappear very	quickly-someeven  in the time which elapses between	 the  administrationand the occurrence of death.Circumstantial evidence in this context means a	 combinationof  facts  creating  a net-work through which  there  is  noescape	for the accused, because the facts taken as a  wholedo  not	 admit of any inference but of his guilt.   To	relyupon  the  findings  of the medical man	 who  conducted	 thepostmortem  and of the chemical analyser as decisive of	 thematter	is to render the other evidence entirely  fruitless.While the circumstances often speak with unerring certainty,the  autopsy and the chemical analysis taken  by  themselvesmay be most misleading.	 No doubt, due weight must be  givento the negative findings at such examinations.	But, bearingin  mind  the  difficult task which  the  man.	of  medicineperforms  and  the  limitations under which  he	 works,	 hisfailure	 should not be taken as the end of the case, for  ongood and probative circumstances, an irresistible  inferenceof guilt can be drawn.In the present case, the effort of the appellant has been topersuade  the Court that the death of Laxmibai was  possiblythe  result  of disease rather than by poison.	 During	 thecourse	of  the case and the appeal, various  theories	havebeen  advanced and conflicting diagnoses have  been  mooted.The  case  of  the appellant has wavered  between  death  bydiabetic  coma and by hypoglycemia, though relying upon	 thecondition of the arteries and the aorta and the rigidity  ofthe  neck-, suggestions of coronary complications and  renalfailure have also been made.  We have shown above that	thiswas  not a case of diabetic coma, because of the absence  ofthe  cardinal symptoms of diabetic coma.  This also  is	 theopinion of Dr. Variava and Dr. Mehta, though Dr. Jliala, forreasons which we have indicated, accepted it.  The appellantargued again the case512from the angle of diabetic coma, but later veered in  favourof  hypoglycemia.   This change noticeable not only  in	 thearguments before us but also throughout	 the conduct of	 thecase  is  merely  to  confuse  the  issue,  and	 create,  ifpossible, a doubt, which would take the	 mind away from	 thesurrounding  circumstances,  and  focus	 it  only  upon	 themedical aspect of the case. Full advantage has been taken ofthe findings of Dr. Ugale and Dr. Miss Aneeja, which suggestpartly	an onset of diabetic coma, partly  of  hypoglycemia,and  partly of renal failure.  There is no true	 picture  ofany one disease.  The rigidity of the neck was not reflectedin the chemical analysis of the cerebro-spinal fluid and wasnegatived,  in so far as renal failure is concerned, by	 thenegative findings about albumin.  Diabetic coma stood  ruledout by the presence of the Babinsky sign and the  suddennessof the onset, the negative aspect of acetone breath and	 therather	remarkable failure of the specific  treatment  givenfor  it	 to  have  worked any  change.	 Driven	 from  theseconsiderations	to  -such doubtful suggestions	as  coronarycomplications of which no physical evidence was found by Dr.Jhala,	the  appellant put his case  'on  hypoglycemia,	 andrelied	upon  the  fact that at the  hospital  40  units  ofinsulin	 intravenously and another 40  units  subcutaneouslywere  administered.  Medical text-books were quoted to	showthat  in the case of hypoglycemic coma the  introduction  ofeven  a	 small quantity of insulin sometimes  proves  fatal.The  learned  AdvocateGeneral stoutly  resisted	 this  move,which  was at variance with the case as set out	 before	 theHigh  Court,  because  it  is obvious  enough  that  if	 oneaccepted   the	theory	of  hypoglycemic  coma,	  the	onlyinjections of insulin causing such shook would be proved  tohave  been given at the hospital and not by  the  appellant.Here,  the  position, however, is not so difficult  for	 theState,	because	 Laxmibai was found to have 4 oz.  of  pastymeal  in  her  stomach,	 and  with  food  inside  her,	 thepossibility  of	 hypoglycemia  taking  place  naturally	 wasextremely  remote.   If	 it was	 hypoglycemic  coma  due  toexcessive administration of insulin, then it must have	beenadministered prior to its onset, and who could have513given  it  but the appellant ? Even though  coma  supervenessuddenly, the patient passes through symptoms of discomfort,and  Laxmibai would have told the appellant about it in	 thetrain.	 The  appellant	 mentioned nothing of  this  to	 Dr.Ugale.	 If  an excessive dose of insulin was given  by	 theappellant,  the	 question  of intent would  arise,  and	 theconduct	 shows	the  intention.	 There	were  no  pronouncedsymptoms of hypoglycemia either.  Laxmibai just passed	fromunconsciousness to death without the manifestation of any ofthe  signs  associated	with the  syndrome  of	hypoglycemicdeath.	 It is also to be remembered that hypoglycemic	comais generally overcome by the administration of a very  smallquantity  of  glucose  (5 or10	grams  of  glucose  orally):Treatment of Diabetes Mellitus by Joslin, Root and White, p.350.  The 40 units given intravenously were mixed with 20 C.C.  of glucose and carried the palliative with	them.	Evenotherwise,  Laxmibai was receiving glucose  by	intragastricdrip,  and during the three and a half hours,  there  shouldhave  been an improvement.  The surprising part is that	 theadministration	of the insulin and glucose brought about  novisible	 symptoms  in the patient either for better  or	 forworse.	She passed into death, and the inference can only bethat  she  did not die of these diseases of  which  she	 waseither	suspected  or  for  which she  was  treated  but  ofsomething  else,  which could not answer  to  the  treatmentgiven to her. Dreisbach in his Handbook on Poisons at p.  27has stated that coma also results from the action of severalpoisons.    Depressants,  sedatives and hypnoties all cause death  bycoma (ibid. p. 201).  The symptoms, according to the author,are  sleepiness,  mental  confusion,  unsteadiness   rapidlyfollowed  by  coma with slow  shallow  respiration,  flaccidmuscles	 and absent deep reflexes.  The	 difference  betweencoma  due  to disease and coma as the result of	 poisons  isstated by him in the following words:Coma   from   poisoning	  presumably   results	 from	someinterference  with brain cell metabolism.  In attempting  tocombat the effects of drugs which induce coma, remember thatno agents are known514which will specifically overcome the metabolic	derangementsof  drug-induced coma.	The mechanism of action of  cerebralstimulant drugs is also unknown, but these drugs  presumablyact  by	 depressing some inhibiting function  in  the  cell.There is no evidence that any stimulants specifically opposethe cellular metabolic depression induced by the  depressantdrugs such as the barbiturates."No specific antidote is known for the sedative and  hypnoticdrugs. (Ibid. p. 202).The condition of Laxmibai clearly indicated an impairment ofthe  central  nervous system.  It is no doubt true  that  insome  cases of coronary thrombosis, coma supervenes; but  itis  idle  to suggest in the present case that  Laxmibai	 wasafflicted  by  this  type of coma,  because  Dr.  Jhala	 whoperformed the postmortem examination and opened the coronaryarteries found no evidence of thrombosis.  According to OttoSaphir,	 a myocardial infarct is easily detected.  (Autopsy,pp.  301-302).	 Coma in Laxmibai's case, as we	 have  shownabove, was not the result either of acidosis,  hypoglycemia,renal failure or meningial irritation.	Her liver,  pancreasand  kidney were found to have no pathological lesions,	 andit  is	significant that no question was even  attempted  toestablish that the opinion of Dr. Jhala on this part of	 thecase  was  incorrect.	Learned counsel	 for  the  appellantsuggested that the examination by Dr. Jhala might have	beensuperficial,  and  might not have included  a  microscopicalexamination of sections of some of the vital organs normallyaffected  by  diabetes.	 This suggestion,  in  our  opinion,ought to have been put forward during the  cross-examinationof  the	 witness, and it is unfair now to suggest  that	 theopinion	 that  no  lesions were found was  based  on  eitherimproper or inadequate examination.  We hold that Dr.  Jhalaperformed the examination adequately, and he was also helpedby his assistants.Here,  we pause to ask a question why the appellant  broughtup  the question of hysterical fits at all.  He	 could	havesaid  that Laxmibai was a diabetic, and that it	 was  likelyshe had coma by reason of that515disease.  The suggested diagnosis given by the appellant wasso  unlikely  that Dr. Ugale questioned it then	 and  there.There  is nothing in the Wanlesswadi T.B. Sanatorium  papersor  in	Dr.  Sathe's  evidence to  show	 that  Laxmibai	 hadhysterical  fits  after	 her  hysterectomy  operation.	  Nosuggestion  was made to the doctors in Court  that  Laxmibaimight  have  had  hysterical fits.   The  condition  of	 themuscles	 and the absence of deep reflexes clearly show	thatthis  was  just	 another  piece of  deception.	 It  is	 notpossible   to  hold  that  the	appellant  gave	  the	fullparticulars  to Dr. Miss Aneeja.  No suggestion was made  toher or to Dr. Ugale that any information other than what wasnoted  in the case papers was furnished.  There is  no	casefor holding 'that Laxmibai had a relapse of hysterical fits.It  would, therefore, appear that Laxmibai's  condition	 wasnot  due  to  any disease, because  diseases  inducing	comagenerally  leave  some	trace behind, and  also	 respond  tomedication.   No  doubt,  in  some  cases  the	pathologicalfindings after death from diabetic coma have been  negative,but  the question is if this was such a case.  We  have,  onthe  one hand, the fact that numerous poisons  causing	comaleave no identifiable trace in the victim after death,	and,on  the other, that sometimes the autopsy does not  discloseany discoverable signs in a patient who dies after an attackof diabetic coma or disease.  The appellant can be  presumedto  have  had  knowledge of these  poisons.   The  appellantchallenged  the Advocate-General to show from  any  standardbook  that the symptoms found by the doctors  accorded	withany  known poison.  Here, it must also be remembered that  aman with knowledge may manipulate not one but more drugs  toachieve his purpose, and the cardinal signs of poisoning  onthe  victim may, as a result, be either obliterated  or,  atleast significantly modified.  We give one example on ,whicha  certain amount of knowledge is possessed even by  laymen.A  poison  of  which  one  of  the  symptoms  would  be	 thecontracting of the pupils of the eyes may be side-tracked byputting	 into the eyes of the victim a drug  like  atropine,which by its local516action	dilates the pupils.  We give this  example,  becausemost  of  us know the action of atropine on  the  eyes,	 andbecause	 the  example also shows how easily  a	person	withknowledge  may confuse the symptoms by a simple	 trick.	  Weare  not suggesting that this is what has happened  in	thiscase; but when we have to  deal with a case of crime  versusnatural	 death, we cannot overlook the possibility  of	someingenious artifice having been used to screen the action.If Laxmibai died in circumstances which prima facie admit ofeither disease or homicide by poisoning, we must look at theconduct	 of the appellant who brought her to  the  hospital,and  consider  to what conclusion  that	 conduct  unerringlypoints.	 If the appellant as an honest medical man had takenLaxmibai  to  the  hospital and she had died  by  reason  ofdisease, his conduct would have been entirely different.  Hewould not have taken her to the hospital bereft of  propertywith which she started from home; he would not have given  awrong or misleading name to cover her identity; he would nothave given a wrong age and wrong history of her ailments; hewould  not have written a letter suggesting that she  had  abrother	 in Calcutta, which brother did not exist; he  wouldnot  have  abandoned  the corpse to be	dealt  with  by	 thehospital  as an unclaimed body; he would not have  attemptedto  convince  the  world  that she  was	 alive	and  happilymarried;  he  would  not  have	obtained  her  property	  byforgeries,  impersonation and other tricks indulged in	bothbefore	and after her death; but he would have informed	 herrelatives  and done everything in his power to see that	 shewas properly treated and stayed on to face whatever  inquirythe hospital wished to make into the cause of death and	 nottried to avoid the postmortem examination and would not havedisappeared,  never to reappear.  His  prevarications  aboutwhere'	Laxmibai was, make a big and much varied  list,	 andhis  forgeries cover scores of documents.  In the  words  ofBaron Parke in Towell's case (1):Circumstantial	evidence is the only evidence which  can  incases of this kind lead to discovery.(1)(1854) 2 C. & K. 309.517There  is no way of investigating them except by the use  ofcircumstantial evidence; but it most frequently happens thatgreat  crimes  committed in secret leave  behind  them	sometraces, or are accompanied by some circumstances which	leadto  the discovery and punishment of the	 offender...  Directevidence  of  persons  who saw the fact, if  that  proof  isoffered upon the testimony of men whose veracity you have noreason	to doubt is the best proof; but, on the other  hand,it  is equally true with regard to  circumstantial.evidence,that  the circumstances may often be so clearly	 proved,  soclosely	 connected  with  it, or leading to  one  result  inconclusion, that the mind may be as well convinced as if  itwere proved by eye-witnesses."The appellant in this case took some risk in taking Laxmibaito  the	 hospital arid in giving his name there;  and  theseaspects	 were, in fact, stressed as arguments in  the  case.As regards the first part, the argument overlooks that	whatappears to us to be a risk might not have so appeared to theappellant,  who might have been sure of his own	 ability  toscreen	himself.   To  him, the death  of  Laxmibai  at	 thehospital  without discovery of poison would be the  greatestargument  in  his favour that he had  acted  honestly.	 Thesecond	 argument  is  equally	unacceptable  to  us.	 Theappellant  could  not  take the risk of	 a  false  name	 andaddress,  if  he  was  intending that  the  body  should  bedisposed  of  as unclaimed.  By giving his  own	 address  hecould  keep  the strings in his own hands.  If	he  gave  anaddress	 and no reply came from that address,  the  hospitalwould  suspect	foul  play.   If  he  gave  the	 address  ofLaxmibai,  people  in Poona would know	of  this  mysteriousdeath, and they would remember the death of Purshottam aliasArvind in 1954.	 At that time also a postmortem	 examinationon the body of Arvind was held (see, evidence of Ramachandra(P.  W. 1)), and the explanation of the appellant  given  inwriting	 on  January 22, 1954, is set out below in  his	 ownwords:" My name is Anant Chihtaman Lagu, age... years, residing atNo. 431/5, Madiwale Colony, Poona, on66518     being questioned state that I am the family doctorof  Karve family in H. No. 94-95, Shukrawar.   The  deceasedPurshottam Anant Karve belongs to that family.	He came fromBombay to Poona on Saturday, the 16th January, 1954.  He hadcome to me on Sunday, the 17th February, 1954, for  medicinefor weakness.  I treated him for 2 clays, on 17th and  18th.He  had	 neither  told me that there was  poisoning  in	 hisstomach,  nor  did  I detect any even when  I  examined	 andtreated	 him.	He  became unconscious 5  hours	 before	 hisdeath.	 He was taken to the Sassoon Hospital at 9  p.m.  on18th  January, 1954.  He was taken to the  Sassoon  Hospitalbecause	 his  disease was increased in	unconsciousness	 andalso because his mother as also myself and Dr. Joshi were ofthe same opinion.  He died there in about 30 to 45  minutes.The  fact that there was deliberate poisoning  by  somebody,was  neither revealed in my examination nor  did  PurshottamKarve  speak  to  me anything about it	during	the  time  Itreated	 him 2 days before.  What exactly was the  cause  ofdeath  could not be revealed during my treatment.  I do	 notknow  if  somebody  is on bad terms  with  him.	  There	 arerumours	 about	suicide	 but  there  is	 no  reason  or	 anycircumstance whatsoever for doing so. "A false address would have started enquiries at the hospitalend.  Laxmibai's own address would have started	 speculationin Poona.  It was for this reason that the appellant had  tochoose another place and to trim between fact and fiction sothat  he  might be able to deal with the matter	 himself  Ofcourse, Laxmibai did have an address of her own which  couldhave  been given, and which did not cease to be her  addressbecause she had got an attack of coma, from which people areknown to recover.These  arguments, however, are of no avail, in view  of	 theappellsnt's entire conduct now laid bare, which conduct	 hasbeen proved to our satisfaction to have begun not after	 thedeath  of  Laxmibai but much ,earlier.	This conduct  is  soknit  together	as  to	make  a	 net-work  of  circumstancespointing only to his guilt,519The  case is one of extreme cunning and premeditation..	 Theappellant,  whose duty it was to care for  this	 unfortunatelady  as a friend and as her medical  adviser,	deliberatelyset  about first to ingratiate himself in her good  opinion,and becoming her confidant, found out all about her affairs.All  this time he was planning to get at her property  aftertaking her life.  He did not perpetrate his scheme at Poona,where the death might have brought a host of persons to	 thehospital.   He devised a diabolical scheme  of	unparalleledcunning and committed an almost perfect murder.	 But murder,though it hath no tongue, speaks out sometimes.	 His  methodwas   his  own	undoing;  because  even	 the  long  arm	  ofcoincidence  cannot explain the multitude  of  circumstancesagainst	 him, and they destroy the presumption of  innocencewith which law clothed him.  In our judgment, the two Courtsbelow  were perfectly correct in their conclusion  that	 thedeath  of Laxmibai was the result of the  administration  ofsome  unrecognised  poison  or drug which  would  act  as  apoison,	  and  that  the  appellant  was  the	person	 whoadministered it.  We, accordingly, confirm the conviction. As regards the sentence of death passed on the appellant bythe  Sessions Judge and confirmed by the High Court,  it  isthe only sentence that could be imposed for this planned andcold-blooded  murder for gain, and we do not interfere	withit.The appeal fails, and it will be dismissed.SARKARJ.-In my opinion this appeal should be allowed.The  appellant was tried by the Sessions Judge, Poona, on  acharge under s. 302 of the Indian Penal Code for the  murderof  Laxmibai  Karve on November 13, 1956,  by  administeringpoison,	 to  her and was convicted and sentenced  to  death.His  appeal  to	 the  High  Court  at  Bombay  against	 theconviction and sentence failed.	 He has now appealed to thisCourt with special leave.The  evidence against the appellant is	all  circumstantial.The question to be decided in this appeal is520whether	 that  evidence	 is such that  the  only  reasonableconclusion  from it is that the appellant was guilty of	 thecharge	brought against him.  Laxmibai  Karve, the deceased, was the widow of one  AnantKarve  who was a businessman of Poona. Laxmibai was  marriedin 1922 at the age of eleven to Anant Karve, then a widower.Her  maiden name was Indumati Ponkshe.	After  her  marriageshe was given the name Laxmibai but was also called Indumatior  Indutai or Mai Karve or simply Mai.	 It does not  appearthat  after her marriage she had been known by her  father'ssurname	 of Ponkshe, a fact the significance of	 which	willappear later.Anant  Karve had a son named Vishnu by his first  wife.	  ByLaxmibai  he  bad two sons, Ramchandra and  Purshottam	alsocalled Arvind.Anant  Karve  died in 1945 leaving a will.  By his  will  hegave  Laxmibai	a right of residence in tree  rooms  in	 hisdwelling  house	 at No. 93-95, Shukrawar Peth, Poona  and  aright  to  receive Rs. 50 per month from the  rent  of	thathouse  which  was in part let out, and	made  certain  otherbequests  to her.  He devised the rest of his properties  tohis  sons.  Besides what she had received from her  husband,Laxmibai in 1954 inherited the properties of Purshottam	 whohad died interstate and unmarried in that year.	 She furtherinherited  a  large  sum  of money  and	 gold  ornaments  ofconsiderable  value from her mother, Girjabai, who had	diedin  1946  or  1947.   She  bad	also  considerable  valuableornaments of her own.  Her total assets amounted in 1956  toabout  Rs. 80,000.  Part of her liquid assets were  held  inshares	and debentures in limited companies.  She  had	alsocertain	 moneys	 in an account in her name in  the  Bank  ofMaharashtra.   A  considerable sum was due to her  from	 oneJoshi to whom she had given a loan. After	the  death of her husband,  differences	 cropped  upbetween	 Laxmibai  and her elder SOD, Ramchandra.   In	1946Ramchandra started living separately from his mother in	 thesame  house and used to take his food in a hotel In  October1952, Ramchandra joined military521service	 as  a	craftsman and  left  Poona.   Since  joiningservice	 till the death of Laxmibai he was not	residing  atPoona  but came there now and then.  In May  1956,  Laxmibaigot Ramchandra married.After her husband's death Laxmibai lived in the three  roomsin  premises No. 93-95, Shukrawar Peth, Poona, in which	 shehad  been given a right of residence by her husband's  will.Her younger son Purshottam also appears to have gone out  ofPoona  on  service  in 1953, and he died  in  January  1954.Since then Laxmibai had been living all by herself.  She hadhowever certain relatives in Poona.The appellant is a medical doctor.  He and his brother B. C.Lagu, also a doctor, had been the family physicians of AnantKarve  during  his life time and attended him  in  his	lastillness.   After  his death the appellant  continued  to  beLaxmibai's  family  doctor.  It is clear from  the  evidencethat  Laxmibai	had  great  trust  and	confidence  in	 theappellant and depended on him in all matters concerning	 hermoneys and investments.	 It was he who went to the Bank	 forwithdrawing  and  depositing  moneys for her.	In  1955  heactually  took	on rent a big hall in  premises	 No.  93-95,Shukrawar  Peth	 for  his  personal  use  and  had  been  inoccupation of it since then.Laxmibai  did  not  possess  very  good	 health.   She	 haddeveloped a tuberculous lesion some twenty years before	 herdeath but it had healed.  She was a chronic diabetes patientsince  1946 and started having hysterical fits	since  1939.She  suffered from menorrhagia and metrorrhagia since  1942.On  April  11, 1948, Dr. Ghorpure, a  surgeon  performed  anoperation on her which is described in these terms:Abdomen	 opened by mid-line sub-umbilical  incision-Subtotalhysterectomy	 done.	   Rt.	  ovary	    cysticpunctured-Appendicectomy.	   Abdomen  closed  after  exploring   otherviscera which were normal.In 1949 she suffered from pyorrhoea and had her teeth  takenout.  In 1950 the tuberculous affection became active and onJune  15, 1950, she consulted Dr. Sathe, a lung	 specialist,who found that there was tuberculous522affection  of  the left lung and he recommended	 a  line  oftreatment.  This treatment was carried out by the  appellantbut  apparently	 did not achieve much result.  On  July	 13,1950,	she  got  herself  admitted  into  the	 WanlesswadiTuberculosis Sanatorium at Miraj in Bombay for treatment  ofthe   tuberculosis.   Two  thoracoplasty   operations	wereperformed  on the left lung and she was recommended a  thirdsuch  operation which she was unwilling to undergo and	leftthe  hospital  at her own desire.  In the  course  of  theseoperations  nine of her ribs on the left side were  removed.The  report  given by this hospital on	November  17,  1950,reads thus:Patient was admitted on 13th July, 1950.  X-Ray on admissionshowed	extensive filtration on the left side with  a  largecavity	in the upper zone; the right side was within  normallimits.	  She had diabetes with high blood sugar  which	 wascontrolled   by	 insulin.   Two	 stages	  of   thoracoplastyoperation  on  the left side were done and  there  was	goodclearing  of disease but there was a small  residual  cavityseen and the third stage operation was advised.	 The patientis  leaving at her own request against medical advice.	 Hersputum is positive.There  is  no  evidence	 that  after  she  left	 WanlesswadiSanatorium  she	 had  any relapse of  any  of  her  previousillnesses  earlier recounted.  It appears from the  evidenceof her relation one Datar, a medical man, that Laxmibai	 hadbeen  completely invalid being a frank case of	tuberculosisof both the lungs but in November 1956, her health was	goodand she was cooking her food and moving about in the  house.The  other evidence also shows that she was carrying on	 herdaily  avocations  of' life in a normal way  at	 that  time.After  her  death her body was found to be  well  nourished.She   had  however  to	have  ordinary	 medical   attentionconstantly and the diabetes had continued though controlled.The appellant treated her all along and the fees paid to himappear debited to Laxmibai's account.I  have so far been stating the earlier history of the	caseand  now come to the more immediate events.  On November  8,1956, Laxmibai had Rs. 5,275-09 in her523account	 in  the  Bank of Maharashtra.	On  a  date  betweenNovember 8 and 10, she signed two papers the first of  whichwas  a	notice to the Bank reading I desire to	withdraw  anamount exceeding Rs. 1,000 up to about Rs. 5,000 in the nextweek  from  My	savings Bank Account" and the  other  was  awithdrawal slip or cheque and it read, " Pay Bearer the	 sumof  Rupees  Five  thousand only which please  debit  to	 the2account  of  Laxmibai Anant Karve".  None of  these  papersbore  any  date	 and  the,  bodies  of	them,  were  in	 theappellant's  handwriting.   These papers were made  over  byLaxmibai to the appellant and he did not present them to theBank  till  after  her death.  On  November  12,  1956,	 theappellant  paid to the credit of Laxmibai's account  in	 theBank  a	 dividend warrant dated November 10, 1956,  for	 Rs.2,607-6-0  drawn in her favour by a company on the  Bank  ofMaharashtra,  after  signing  her name on  the	back  of  ithimself.The  appellant had fixed up an engagement with Dr. Sathe  ofBombay,	 who has been named earlier, for November 13,  1956,at  3  p.m. for examining Laxmibai.  On	 November  8,  1956,Bhave, a relation of Laxmibai, called on Laxmibai and  foundthe appellant there.  Laxmibai told him that she proposed togo to Bombay with the appellant for consulting Dr. Sathe forher  health and that she would be returning in four or	fivedays.	On November 10 or 11, she saw a	 lawyer	 Karandikar,also a relation, and informed him that she intended to go toBombay with the appellant for consulting a physician.  Aboutthe  same  time	 Champutai,  daughter  of  Bhave   mentionedearlier,  came to Laxmibai's house to invite her  to  attendthe  birthday  party  of her son which had  been  fixed	 forNovember 13.  Laxmibai told Champutai that she was going  toBombay	and if she was able to come back in time, she  wouldattend the party.  At about 8 p.m. on November 12,  Laxmibaiwent  to  Virkar, who was a tenant of the  house  where	 shelived, and informed him that she was going to Bombay by	 thenight train to consult a doctor and requested him to pay Rs.50 on account of the rent then due for meeting the  expensesof the524journey	 to Bombay.  The amount was paid by Virkar  to	her.She   told   Virkar   that  she	 expected   to	 return	  toPoona after three or four days.	 About the same time she metPramilabai,  another tenant of the house, and told her	thatshe  was  going to Bombay with the appellant  by  the  nighttrain to consult Dr. Sathe.  A little later she was seen  bya  third  tenant Krishnaji, standing in front of  the  housewith  a	  small	 bag and bedding.  Krishnaji  also  saw	 theappellant on the road going away from the house.  All  thesepeople have said that they found Laxmibai in a good state ofhealth	and going about performing her normal avocations  oflife.  There was a passenger train leaving Poona for  Bombayat 10 p.m. Laxmibai and the appellant went by this train  toBombay	on November 12, 1956.  Though the  appellant  deniedthis, the Courts below have found that they travelled in thesame  compartment.   The  train	 reached  Victoria  TerminusStation, Bombay, at 5-10 a.m. on November 13.  Laxmibai	 hadthen gone into a comatose condition.  The appellant procureda  stretcher  and carried her into a taxi with the  help  ofporters	 and took her to Gokuldas Tejpal  Hospital,  usuallycalled for short G.T. Hospital, which is about six  furlongsfrom  the station.  They reached the hospital at about	5-45a.m. Laxmibai was taken to the Outdoor Department where	 Dr.Ugale,	the Casualty Officer in charge, admitted  her  'intothe  hospital.	According to Dr. Ugale, the  appellant	toldhim  that  the name of the unconscious	woman  was  IndumatiPaunshe	 and her age was forty.	 The appellant gave  as	 theaddress of the patient the address of his own dispensary  atPoona, namely, " C/o Dr. Lagu 20-B, Shukrawar, Gala No.	 12,Poona 2 ". Dr. Ugale said that the appellant at his  requestspelt the name "Paunshe" and he took it down as spelt by theappellant.   On enquiry about the history of the patient  byDr.  Ugale the appellant told him that the patient  suddenlybecame unconscious in the train while coming from  upcountryand  that there was a history of similar attacks  frequentlybefore.	  Dr.  Ugale also said that the appellant  told	 himthat he thought that the case was one of hysterical fit from525which  she frequently suffered.	 He did not tell  Dr.  Ugalethat  the patient suffered from any other disease.  He	saidthat  he  had brought the unconscious woman  to	 Bombay	 forgetting	 her examined by a specialist and that she  was	 hispatient.  Dr. Ugale entered in the appropriate record of thehospital called the case paper, all that the appellant	toldhim and what he himself had noticed.  As a result of his ownexamination Dr. Ugale found that the patient was making someinvoluntary  movement,	the corneal reflex was	absent,	 thepupils were normal and reactive.  He found nothing  abnormalin the cardiovascular system or the respiration.  There	 wasa clerk sitting by the side of Dr. Ugale when the  appellantwas  speaking  to him and he made the necessary	 entries  inanother record of the hospital.	 In that record the name  ofthe patient appears as Indumati Pankshe.  Dr. Ugale examinedthe person of Laxmibai and found no ornament or cash on her.Within four or five minutes of the time that she arrived  atthe  Out  door	Department of  the  hospital,  Laxmibai	 wasremoved to Ward No. 12.Dr.  Anija,  a young woman doctor, who had  passed  out	 theprevious June, was then the House Physician in attendance atthat  ward.  The appellant accompanied Laxmibai to the	wardand  introduced himself to Dr. Anija as Dr. Lagu,  which  ishis name.  He told her that while travelling in a train fromupcountry  the patient had got unconscious and therefore  hehad  brought her straight from the station to  the  hospitaland  that  before the journey the patient was  alright.	  Hefurther	 said that the patient had similar  attacks  before.The  appellant	also told Dr. Anija that he was	 the  familyphysician  of the patient and a family friend and  spoke  ofsome  of  the illnesses from which the patient	had  earliersuffered.   Dr. Anija made some notes in the case  paper  ofwhat  she  heard from the appellant and	 then  examined	 thepatient, the result of which she also similarly noted in thecase paper.  Thereafter, according to Dr. Anija, she  testedthe patient's urine in a laboratory attached to the ward andrecorded   the	finding	 on  the  case	paper.	  She	thenadministered some stimulant and oxygen and also67526     gave  an  injection  of  40 units	of  insulin  as	 shethought,'  as a result of the urine test, that the case	 wasone  of diabetic coma.	There is some dispute as to  whetherthe  urine was examined by Dr. Anija at this time and as  towhen  the  entries on the case paper of the results  of	 theexamination  had been made.  This will be  discussed  later.Dr.  Anija examined the urine of the patient for the  secondtime  at about 8-30 a.m. and that also disclosed  a  certainquantity  of Sugar.  She said that she then sent a  call  tothe  Registrar of the ward, who was her immediate  superior,to come and see the case.  The Registrar came and, accordingto Dr. Anija, directed that the patient be given another  40units  of  insulin with 20 c.c. of  glucose  by	 intravenousinjection and that she be also given " intra-gastric glucosedrip  " and this was done at about 9 a.m. At about  11	a.m.the  HonorarY Visiting Physician, Dr. Variava, came  to	 thehospitals Dr. Anija told him that it was a case of  diabeticcoma.	Dr.  Variava then himself examined the	patient	 andthereafter  asked Dr. Anija why she thought it to be a	caseof diabetic coma, to which Dr. Anija replied that she did sobecause	 there was sugar present in the urine.	Dr.  Variavathen  asked  her  whether she had  examined  the  urine	 foracetone to which she replied that she had not.	Dr.  Variavathereupon reprimanded her by saying " How can you diagnose acase  of diabetic coma without ascertaining acetone  in	 theurine ?" Thereafter under the directions of Dr. Variava, Dr.Anija  again tested the urine and showed it to	Dr.  Variavawho  thought  that  the urine contained a  slight  trace  ofacetone.   Shortly after this urine test the  patient,	thatis,  Laxmibai  expired.	 It was then about  11-30  a.m.	 Dr.Variava	 then told Dr. Anija that he did not think that	 thecase was one of diabetic coma and that therefore he wanted apostmortem  examination	 of the body of the  deceased.	 Dr.Anija then made a note on the case paper stating " Asked forpostmortem " and put her signature below the entry.  She didnot  then  put down anything in the column there  about	 thefinal  diagnosis. Dr. Variava did not wait to see the  entryabout527postmortem being made by Dr. Anija but left to attend  othercases.	 It is clear that the appellant was present  in	 thehospital  up to the time of the death Of Laxmibai though  inhis statement in the trial Court he had denied this.   Thereis  no evidence as to how long he remained in  the  hospitalafter Laxmibai's death but it is clear that he was in  Poonaon November 14.There  was  arrangement	 in  the  hospital  for	  conductingpostmortem examinations.  The case papers along with note  "Asked  for  postmortem " had been sent by Dr. Anija  to	 theResident  Medical Officer of the hospital, Dr. Mouskar.	  Itwas his duty to arrange for the postmortem examination.	 Thecase paper came to Dr. Mouskar's office at 1 p.m. but he didnot proceed to make any arrangement for having a  postmortemexamination  held.   Instead, at about 2 p. m.	he  sent  anofficial  telegram to the appellant at Poona at the  addresswhich  he had given to Dr. Ugale and which was	recorded  inthe case paper.	 The telegrams was in these words:" Indumati expired arrange removal reply immediately."On  November 14, the appellant wrote from Poona a letter  inreply to the telegram.	This letter was in these terms:"  I  have already telegraphed to the  brother	of  ShrimatiIndumati  Panshe at Calcutta, earliest he will reach  Bombayon  the 15th November, 1956, Thursday.	His name  is  GovindVaman Deshpande; he will enquire as Indumati Panshe.  I haveseen  the  name of the patient entered in the Ward  Book  asIndumati  Pannshe  as 'n' extra.  Please correct' it.  I  amwriting all these things in connection of a case woman	aged30-35 years admitted in G. T. Hospital at 6 a.m. on  Tuesday13th  November, 1956, and expired the same day at  about  11a.m.  Shri Govind Vaman Deshpande will take the body and  dothe  necessary funeral function according to  Hindu  rites."Laxmibai had in fact no brother of the name of Govind  VamanDeshpande and in fact the appellant528had  sent  no  telegram as he stated  in  the  letter.	 Thestatements  in	the letter were all false.  The	 letter	 wasreceived  in the office of Dr. Mouskar in the  afternoon  ofNovember 15.Not  having  received any reply from the  appellant  to	 histelegram, Dr. Mouskar on November 14, at about 4 p. m., sentthe  following	information  to the  Inspector	of  Police-AEsplanade P. S., Bombay.Sir,I  am to state that Smt.  Indumati Paunshe,  Hindu,  female,aged  40 years was admitted in Ward No.Xll for treatment  ofhysterical  fits on 13th November, 1956, at 5-45 a.  m.	 Shedied on the same day at 11-30 a.m.The address given at the time of admission is as follows:C/o Dr. Lagu,20B, Shukrawar,Gala No. 12, Poona-2.A  telegram on the above address has already been sent,	 butwithout any response.It  is	therefore  requested that the  body  may  please  beremoved and taken to the J. J. Hospital Morgue for  avoidingdecomposition."A  copy	 of  this  letter  was	sent  to  the  Coroner	 forinformation.   The  letter  was	 written as  in	 the  G.  T.Hospital  there was no air conditioned morgue and there	 wasone in the J. J. Hospital.On  receipt of this letter the police immediately  wrote  tothe Coroner for permission to remove the body from the G. T.Hospital to the J. J. Hospital.	 The permission was  grantedby the Coroner at about 7-50 p.m. on the same day.  The bodywas  thereupon removed from the G. T. Hospital to the J.  J.Hospital morgue at about 9 p.m. on November 14.On  the same day, that is, November 14, at about 9-30 p.  m.the  police again wrote to the Coroner stating that  it	 hadreceived  a report from the Resident Medical Officer, G.  T.Hospital  of  the death of one Indumati	 Paunshe,  referringevidently to the letter which Dr. Mouskar had earlier on thesame day written to the			    529police,and  that Indumati appeared to have no  relatives  inBombay and further that the cause of death was not certifiedand requesting in the circumstances that an inquest over thedeath might be held.  What happened about this request	willbe stated later.On November 15, the Bombay police sent a wireless message tothe  police  at Poona intimating that on  November  13,	 oneIndumati Paunshe, who had been admitted to the G.T. Hospitalfor  treatment of hysterical fits, had died on the very	 dayin  the	 hospital and her address was " C/o Dr.	 Lagu,	20B,Shukrawar,  Gala No. 12, Poona 2 " and asking that  enquiresmight  be made at the above address and the relatives  mightbe  asked to claim the dead body which was lying  unclaimed.Pursuant  to this message, the Poona police interviewed	 theappellant  at  Poona  on  November  16,	 when  he  made	 thefollowing statement:"On  November  12 he left Poona for Bombay by  the  10	p.m.train  and  had gone off to sleep.  Towards the end  of	 thejourney when he started preparing to get down at Bombay,  hefound one woman fast asleep.  From other passengers he	cameto know that her name was Indumati Paunshe about 35 years ofage  and she had a brother serving in Calcutta.	 When  otherpassengers got down at Victoria Terminus Station in  Bombay,the woman did not awake.  He thereupon looked at her  keenlyand found her senseless.  Being himself a doctor he  thoughtit  his duty to take her to the hospital and so took her  tothe G. T. Hospital in a taxi.  As he had taken that woman tothe hospital, the Casualty Medical Officer took his address.He had no more information about the woman.  She was not hisrelation and he was not in any way responsible for her."The  statement so made by the appellant was received by	 theBombay police from the Poona police on November 17.I now come back to the events that were happening at Bombay.I have earlier stated that the case paper had not  initiallygiven the final diagnosis as to the530 cause	of Laxmibai's death but bore the endorsement  "Askedfor  postmortem ". At some stage, as to	 which the  evidenceis conflicting and which I will	 have to discuss later,	 theendorsement " Asked for postmortem " was crossed out and thewords  "diabetic  coma " were written on the case  paper  asthe  caus  of  the  death of the  patient.   Both  of  thesealterations had been made by Dr. Anija who put her signatureunder  the crossed out entry.  Dr. Mouskar on  November	 15,sent  to  the  Coroner a certificate of	 the  death  of	 thepatient	 Indumati  in  the G. T.  Hospital  stating  thereindiabetic  coma as the cause of her death.  By this time	 thealteration in the case paper had clearly been made, crossingout  the direction as to postmortem examination and  statingtherein	 diabetic coma as the cause of death.  On  the	sameday, that is, November 15, the police wrote a letter to	 Dr.Mouskar,  apparently in ignorance of the  death	 certificateissued	by him, requesting him to send per bearer the  causeof  the death of " Indumati ". This letter was sent  with  acopy, the idea being that the original would be retained  bythe  Hospital and the copy returned with an  acknowledgementof the receipt of the original made on it.  Both these	werehowever	 produced  from	 the  police  custody  without	 anyendorsement  by	 the hospital acknowledging the	 receipt  ofeither.	 The copy bore the following remark, "Diabetic coma,Dr.  N.	 S.  Variava, G. T. Hospital." It is  clear  on	 theevidence  that	the  endorsement had not been  made  by	 Dr.Variava.  Dr. Anija also denied having made it though beforethe police she admitted that the words " Diabetic coma " hadbeen  written  by her.	Dr. Mouskar said  that	neither	 theoriginal  nor the copy had ever come to him and	 he  thoughtthat the endorsement "Diabetic coma" might be in Dr. Anija'shand  writing  but he could not say by whom the	 words	"Dr.N.S.  Variava, G. T. Hospital" had been written adding	thatthe words " Dr. N. S. Variava " had not been written by	 Dr.Variava.   The question as to who made the endorsement	willbe discussed later.On  receipt of the death certificate from Dr.  Mouskar,	 theCoroner's office made on the letter of the police531dated  November	 14, asking an inquest to be made,  which  Ihave  earlier  mentioned, an endorsement directing  that  noinquest was necessary as the Resident Medical Officer, G. T.Hospital had certified the cause of death and had issued thedeath  certificate.   On November 19, the  Coroner's  officedirected  that	the  dead  body	 might	be  disposed  of  asunclaimed after taking a photograph of it.  A photograph  ofthe dead body was duly taken on the same day.  In the  mean-time the Grant Medical College had written to the Coroner onNovember  17, for authority to take over  certain  unclaimeddead  bodies  lying  in	 the  J.J.  Hospital  mortuary,	 fordissection purposes and thereupon the Coroner made an  orderdirecting  that	 the dead bodies might be made over  to	 theGrant  Medical	College.  Pursuant to this order,  the	deadbodies, which included that of Laxmibai, were then made overto  the Grant ,Medical College on November 20,	1956.	Whenthe  dead  body	 of Laxmibai was about to be  taken  to	 thedissection  hall, some scratches on the neck were  detected.The  Professor of Anatomy of the College did  not  thereuponallow the body to be dissected and brought the discovery  tothe  notice  of the police.  The police then  wrote  to	 theCoroner	 that in view of this, a postmortem and	 an  inquestmight  be held.	 Accordingly, under the instructions of	 theCoroner,   Dr.	Jhala,	Police	Surgeon,  Bombay,   held   apostmortem  examination of the body of Laxmibai on  November23.   He found no sign of decomposition in the body nor	 anycharacteristic	smell of any recognisable poison.   He	alsofound the scratches on the neck to be postmortem.  Dr. Jhalasent  the  viscera to the Government Chemical  Examiner	 whosent  the  report of his examination on December  19,  1956,wherein he stated that he was unable to detect any poison inthe viscera.  Thereupon, Dr. Jhala submitted his  postmortemreport stating that in his opinion death could have occurredon  account  of diabetic coma.	In the meantime,  after	 thepostmortem  examination, the body of Laxmibai had been	madeover  to the Hindu Relief Society for cremation on  November24 and the cremation had been duly carried out.532It is now necessary to go back to Poona and relate what	 theappellant  did	after  Laxmibai's  death.   To	describe  itsummarily,   the  appellant  did  not  give  any   one	 theinformation  of	 Laxmibai's  death  but	 on  the   contrary.represented that she was alive and moving    about	fromplace  to place and in the meantime misappropriated most  ofher moneys.     I	will  now  give some details of	 his  activities  inrelation  to Laxmibai's moneys.	 It will be remembered	thatabout  November 8, the appellant had taken from	 Laxmibai  anotice to the Bank for withdrawal of money and a  withdrawalslip,  none of which bore any date.  The appellant  insertedon the notice of withdrawal the date November 15, 1956,	 andlodged	it in the Bank on the same day or  soon	 thereafter.On  the	 withdrawal slip he inserted the date  November	 19,1956, and on November 20, presented it to the Bank and	drewout  a	sum  of	 Rs.  5,000  from  Laxmibai's  account.	  Hesubsequently  put  in to the credit of her  account  diversecheques	 and  by April 1957, bad drawn out  by	forging	 hersignature  practically	the  whole  amount  in	her   credittotalling  about Rs. 10,000 including the sum of  Rs.  5,000withdrawn on November 20, 1956.	 The appellant also embarkedon  a  systematic course of forgeries of  the  signature  ofLaxmibai  on various fabricated documents,  including  sharetransfer  deeds,  as a result of which, before	the  end  of1957,  he misappropriated a large part of the liquid  assetsbelonging  to  Laxmibai's estate.  When some of	 the  forgedsignatures  of Laxmibai had been doubted by the	 authoritiesto  whom  they had been presented with the object  of  beingacted upon, the appellant even went to the length of gettinga woman to falsely impersonate Laxmibai before a  Magistrateand thereby procured the latter to certify forged signaturesof  Laxmibai as genuine signatures.  He	 also  clandestinelydenuded Laxmibai's flat of its entire contents.	 None of herornaments  has	been  recovered after  her  death.   In	 themeantime,  he  had  been  falsely  representing	 to  variouspersons,  including all friends and relatives  of  Laxmibai,that he had met her on several dates after November 13, whenshe was already533dead.	He  manufactured  various letters  purported  to  bewritten by her from distant places in India and addressed toher relatives in Poona stating that she was going round on apilgrimage.  Eventually, he fabricated letters purported  tohave  been written by her to her relatives in which  it	 wasstated	that she had married one Joshi and bad settled	downin a place called Rathodi near Jaipur -and did not intend toreturn	to Poona.  There is in fact no place of the name  ofRathodi.   His	idea in manufacturing these letters  was  tocreate a false impression in the minds of Laxmibai's friendsand relatives that she was still alive and this he did	withthe object of gaining time to misappropriate her properties.It  is not necessary to go into the details of this part  ofthe  conduct.  The substance of it is that he made full	 useof  the	 situation  arising  out  of  Laxmibai's  death	  tomisappropriate	by all kinds of dishonest means most of	 herproperties   and   to	facilitate   the    misappropriationassiduously spread the story that she was alive.  It may  bestated	that the appellant was put on -his trial on  chargesof  misappropriation  and  other allied	 charges  and  foundguilty and sentenced to imprisonment for life.The  long  absence  of	Laxmibai  had  gradually  made	 herrelatives grow suspicious about her fate and they approachedthe police but no trace of Laxmibai could be found.  Severalpetitions  were sent to the higher police officers and	alsoto the Chief Minister of Bombay.  In the end, the matter wasentrusted to Mr. Dhonde, Deputy Superintendent of Police, C.I.  D.,	 Poona,	 for  enquiry.	 Mr.  Dhonde  made   variousinvestigations	 and   eventually   on	 March	 13,   1958,interrogated  the  appellant.  The appellant then  told	 himthat  be had taken Laxmibai to the G. T.  Hospital,  Bombay,and admitted her there, and that she died there on  November13,  1956.  The police made enquiries at the G. T.  Hospitaland  was able to find the clothes which Laxmibai  wore	whenshe  died.  These were identified by  Laxmibai's  relations.The  photograph of the dead body of Laxmibai also helped  toprove  her identity.  After certain further  enquiries,	 thepolice sent up the68534appellant  for trial on a charge of murder of Laxmibai	withthe result I have earlier mentioned.The  prosecution case is that the appellant caused  thedeath of Laxmibai by administering to her a poison which wasundetectable.	On  the evidence in this case it has  to  beheld, as the Courts below have done, that there are  poisonswhich cause death but are undetectable.	 I do not wish to beunderstood  as	saying	that death by  poisoning  cannot  beproved without proof of detection of poison in the  deceasedperson's  system  after his death.  I quite agree  that	 thecircumstances	may  be	 such  that  the   only	  reasonableconclusion that can be drawn is that death was an  unnaturaldeath.	 In  this view of the matter, I do not	consider  itnecessary  to discuss the cases cited at the bar and in	 thejudgments of the Courts below.	They are all illustrative ofthe proposition that a crime can be proved by circumstantialevidence,  a  proposition which I fully accept.	 In  one  ofthem, namely, Regina v. Onufrejczyk(1) guilt was held provedfrom  the  circumstances of the	 case  notwithstanding	thatthere was no body or trace of a body, or any direct evidenceas  to	the  manner  of	 death	of  a  victim.	 The   legalproposition  that arises in the present case may be  put  inthe  words  of	Wills  in  his	treatise  on  CircumstantialEvidence  which has been quoted in the judgment of the	HighCourt:It  would  be  most unreasonable and lead  to  the  grossestinjustice,  and	 in some circumstances to impunity  for	 theworst  of crimes, to require, as an imperative rule of	law,that  the  fact	 of poisoning shall be	established  by	 anyspecial	 and  exclusive medium of proof, when that  kind  ofproof is unattainable, and specially if it has been renderedso  by	the act of the offender himself.  No  universal	 andinvariable rule, therefore, can be laid down; and every casemust  depend upon its own particular circumstances; and	 thecorpus	delicti must, like anything else, be proved  by	 thebest  evidence reasonably capable of being adduced,  and  bysuch  an amount and combination of relevant  facts,  whetherdirect	or  circumstantial,  as	 to  establish	the   factumprobandum(1)  [1955] 1 Q. B. 388.535to the exclusion of every other reasonable hypothesis.	(7thEd., p.,385) ".In  the present case, therefore, the circumstances  must  besuch  that  no other conclusion than that Laxmibai  died  ofpoisoning  and	that  the poison  was  administered  by	 theappellant,  can reasonably be drawn.  The Courts below	havefound  that the circumstances of this case  fully  establishthis.	I have come to a different conclusion.	In my  view,the  circumstances  are	 not such that from  them  the	onlyreasonable  conclusion to be drawn is that Laxmibai died  ofpoisoning.  If that conclusion cannot be drawn, of course noquestion of the appellant having poisoned her arises.  I mayalso  say  that if Laxmibai could be said to  have  died  ofpoisoning, I would have no reason to disagree with the	viewof  the	 Courts	 below that it was  the	 appellant  who	 hadadministered the poison.I proceed now to consider the question whether Laxmibai	 haddied  of poisoning.  I do not suggest that poison had to  befound in her system.  In my view, if it could be establishedin  this case that Laxmibai had died an unnatural death	 theconclusion would be inevitable that that unnatural death hadbeen  brought  about by poison; no other kind  of  unnaturaldeath could be possible on the facts of this case.The real question in this case then is whether Laxmibai	 haddied  an  unnatural death.  I think the	 Courts	 below	alsoconsidered  that  to be the only question in this  case.   Ihave  earlier  said  that  no poison  was  detected  in	 thepostmortem  examination.  So far as direct evidence  of	 thecause  of  death  goes, which in this case  is	all  opinionevidence,  we have the evidence of three doctors.  All	thatDr.  Variava  said was that death was not  due	to  diabeticcoma.	The Courts below have accepted this evidence  and  Ifind no reason to take a different view.  Then there is	 Dr.Jhala,	who  conducted the postmortem examination.   He	 hadstated in the port-mortem examination report that the  causeof  death  was diabetic coma.  In his evidence in  Court  hesaid that the opinion stated in his report was not based  onhis  pathological  findings  and  that	the  proper  way  ofdescribing the cause of536death  would  be  by  stating  "  death	 by  diabetes	withcomplications  ". He also referred to certain  complicationssuch  as,  atheroma  of	 aorta	with  slight  sclerosis	  ofcoronary.  In the end he was asked by the Court, " Would youagree  with  the  view	that  the  proper  opinion  on	 thepathological data available before you should have been thatthe  cause  of death was not ascertainable or could  not  beascertained  ?"	 His  answer was, " My	answer	is  that  onpathological data I would agree to the answer proposed.	  Wehave  however  to  see the clinical data  also.	  "  On	 theclinical  data	he  would have said that death	was  due  todiabetes  with	complications,	but he	conceded  that	thatopinion was somewhat speculative.  These two doctors  there-fore  did  not suggest that death was due to  any  unnaturalcause.	Dr. Variava did not in his evidence say that he	 haddirected  the postmortem examination to be done	 because  hesuspected  any foul play.  It would appear that be  did	 notsuspect any foul play for he did not require the case to  bemarked as a medico-legal case.The most important direct evidence as to the cause of  deathand  on	 which the prosecution has greatly relied,  is	the,opinion of Dr. Mehta who appears to be a medical man of someeminence.   All the papers connected with the  illnesses  ofLaxmibai  and  the postmortem examination  report  bad	beengiven to him and he had made a thorough study of them.	 Thenet result of this study would appear from his evidence, therelevant part of which I think it right now to set out.	  Hesaid:"  On a careful consideration of the entire material  placedbefore	me I am definitely of the opinion that the cause  ofdeath  of Indumati Paunshe as mentioned in the	case  recordand  the Coroner's inquest, viz., diabetic coma,  cannot  betrue.  In my opinion, the cause of death may probably be dueto:(1)Administration of some unrecognisable poison, i.e.,	somepoison	for  the detection of which there  are	no  definitechemical tests.(2)Administration  of  some recognisable  poison  for  whichthere are chemical tests, but which tests537could  not  be obtained on account of deterioration  of	 thepoison	remaining  in the dead body which was  kept  in	 themorgue for considerable time after death without  postmortembeing	performed   and	  which	  was	already	  undergoingdecomposition prior to the actual postmortem examination  asis clear from the absence of rigor mortis.  Rigor mortis  ismeans  stiffening  of muscles.	The above opinion  that	 theprobable  cause	 of death may be due  to  administration  ofpoison is further fortified by the fact that the  postmortemdid  not reveal any definite pathological lesion to  accountfor the sudden rapid death of the deceased.The  question then arises whether she died a natural  death,i.e.,  due to any other disease or diseased condition.	 Thepostmortem  notes  do  not  show  anything  abnormal  beyondcongestion  of	organ is and tubercular focus  in  the	leftlung.  Congestion of organs occurs in majority of the  casesafter  death of the person and particularly more so when  somany   days  have  elapsed  between  death  and	  postmortemexamination.  Some decomposition is bound to be going on.There  is still possibility of death being due to poison  inspite  of the fact that the poison was not detected  in	 thepostmortem  examination.   Two reasons can be  assigned	 fornon-detection of poison: (1) There are no definite  chemicaltests  for  each and every poison.  There are  some  poisonswhich cannot be detected on chemical analysis. (2) There maybe  a recognisable poison in the sense that there are  testsfor  its detection.  But the poison may not be	detected  onaccount of deterioration of the poison remaining in the bodyfor  a considerable time before the  postmortem	 examinationand it has undergone decom. position or oxidation...........The  possibility of death being due to poisoning  cannot  beruled out."538I  do  not  think that the Courts  below  thought  that	 theevidence of Dr. Mehta established that death must have	beendue  to	 an  unnatural cause.  If they did,  I	find  myselfunable	to agree with them.  The substance  of	Dr.  Mehta'sevidence  is  that  death may " probably be due	 to  "	somepoison,	 "  the	 probable  cause  of  death  maybe  due	  toadministration	of  some poison", the  posibility  of  deathbeing  due to poisoning cannot be ruled out.  It  will	havebeen  seen that Dr. Mehta posed a question whether  Laxmibaihad  died a natural death. That question he did	 not  answerbeyond stating that the postmortem examination did not	showanything   abnormal  beyond  congestion	 of  organs  and   atubercular  focus in the left lung and that such  congestionof organs occurs in the majority of cases after death. It isclear  that  Mr. Mehta could not say  with  conviction	thatdeath had been caused by poisoning nor that death could	 nothave  been  due to natural causes.  The net  result  of	 theevidence of the medical experts is clearly that it cannot besaid with definiteness how death was caused.  In this  view,nothing	 really turns on the fact that shortly prior to	 herdeath Laxmibai was found to have been in good health,  whichof  course  can only mean as good a health  as	a  confirmedinvalid	 like  her  could have.	  It  cannot  be  definitelyinferred from the fact that she was in good health that	 shehad  not  died a natural death.	 If such  an  inference	 waspossible,  the doctors who gave evidence would have given  aclear  opinion but this they did not.  In  this  state  of the evidence  the	 Courts	 below	havefounded	 themselves  on various circumstances of  the  case,most  of  which	 I have earlier related, in  coming  to	 theconclusion  that Laxmibai bad met with an  unnatural  death.These circumstances I now proceed to consider.The  first  thing that I wish to discuss is  the  fact	thatafter Laxmibai's death the appellant started on a systematiccareer	of  misappropriating  her assets.  I  am  unable  toconclude from this that the appellant had caused her  death.It  is reasonably possible to think that he made use of	 theopportunity  that  came	 is  way  on  Laxmibai's  death	  tomisappropriate her		       539properties and had not caused her death.  The fact that	 theappellant   deliberately  kept	back  the   information	  ofLaxmibai's death from her relatives and falsely created	 theimpression  in	their  minds that she was  alive,  does	 notadvance	 the matter.  This was clearly done with a  view  togive  him  time	 in  which  to	carry  out  his	 scheme	  ofmisappropriating  her properties.  I quite  concede  howeverthat these circumstances may take on a different colour fromother circumstances, but I have found no such circumstance..The  next  circumstance is the conduct of the  appellant  inobtaining from Laxmibai her signatures on the undated noticeof  withdrawal	to the Bank and the  withdrawal	 slip.	 Thebodies	of  these documents are in the	handwriting  of	 theappellant.  The Courts below have thought that the appellantobtained  the  signatures of Laxmibai on  blank	 papers	 andfilled	them in the forms they now stand after the death  ofLaxmibai  and  utilised them to misappropriate	her  moneys.They  came  to	this conclusion from  the  fact	 that  thesedocuments  were	 admittedly  without  dates  and  had	beensubsequently  dishonestly utilised.  It has been  held	fromthis that the appellant had during her life time a design onher  moneys and therefore it becomes likely that  he  causedher  death.  I am unable to agree with this conclusion.	  Itwould be difficult to hold from the fact that the  appellanthad a design on Laxmibai's moneys that he had also a  designon her life or that her death was, an unnatural death.	 Butapart from that there is reason to think that when  Laxmibaisigned these documents their bodies had already been writtenup.   That  reason is this.  It will be remembered  that  onNovember  12, 1956, the appellant had put to the  credit  ofLaxmibai's  account  in the Bank a dividend warrant  in	 herfavour for Rs. 2,607-6-0.  The balance to the credit of	 heraccount	 on  November 12, 1956, became as a result  of	thisdeposit,  Rs.  7,882-15.   Now it is  obvious  that  if	 theappellant  had	filled	in  the	 bodies	 of  the  notice  ofwithdrawal  and	 the  withdrawal slip  after  the  death  ofLaxmibai he would not have mentioned the amounts therein  asRs. 5,000 but would have increased it to a540figure	nearer	the balance because he undoubtedly  had	 setabout  to misappropriate the moneys in that account  and  infact he actually withdrew almost the entire balance in	thataccount	 later	by forging Laxmibai's  signatures  on  otherappropriate  documents. Therefore, it seems to me  that	 thebodies	of the notice of withdrawal and the withdrawal	sliphad  been written out before Laxmibai put her signatures  onthem.Furthermore,  the  evidence clearly  establishes  that	evenduring Laxmibai's life time the appellant used to present tothe Bank cheques signed by Laxmibai for withdrawal of moneysand signed on the reverse of such cheques in acknowledgementof receipt of the moneys.  He also used to deposit moneys inthe Bank to the credit of her account.	It is quite possiblethat   the  two	 documents  mentioned  had  come  into	 theappellant's  possession	 in  the usual	course	of  managingLaxmibai's banking affairs.  The fact that Laxmibai had	 notput  dates on the documents would indicate that it  was	 notintended   that	 they  would  be  presented  to	  the	Bankimmediately  for there is no reason to think  that  Laxmibaihad  not noticed that the documents did not-bear  any  date.She  seems to have been quite a capable woman  managing	 herown affairs well.  The Courts below have thought that  therewas no need for her to have wanted to withdraw such a  largeamount.	  The appellant said that she wanted to	 invest	 themoney  if),  some fixed deposit which would have  yielded  ahigher	return	but  he actually lent it to  a	friend	whomhowever	  he  refused  to  name.   The	Courts	below	havedisbelieved the appellant's case.  Even so it does not	seemto  me	possible  to  hold that Laxmibai  did  not  want  towithdraw  any moneys and the appellant had fraudulently	 gother  to put her signatures on blankpapers.  I  have  earliergiven  my  reason for this.  It was not	 necessary  for	 theappellant to have got her to sign blank papers and there  isnothing	 to show that she would have done that even  if	 theappellant had asked her.I  may here mention that no adverse inference can  be  drawnfrom the fact that the appellant put in the541dividend  warrant  to the credit of Laxmibai's	account:  itproves	no guilt.  But it is said that the appellant  forgedthe  name  of Laxmibai on the back of it.   The	 High  Courtthought	 that  this forgery proves that	 the  appellant	 hadduring the lifetime of Laxmibai entertained the intention tomisappropriate her property.  I am wholly unable to see	 howthat  conclusion could be reached from this or how  in	factthe  forgery proves anything against the appellant.  By	 theforgery,  as  it is called, the appellant  was	putting	 themoney into the account to which it lawfully belonged; he didnot ,thereby give it a different destination.	Furthermore,he  need  not have signed her name himself.  In	 the  normalcourse Laxmibai would have signed it herself if asked to  doso  and	 given	it to the appellant for being  sent  to	 thecredit of her account.	There is no reason to think that shewould  not have signed it if the appellant had asked her  todo  so.	 The dividend warrant was in Laxmibai's	 favour	 andhad been drawn on the Bank of Maharashtra.  It was being putto her credit in the same Bank.	 The Bank was therefore	 notlikely to scrutinise with any care the payee's signature  onthe dividend warrant.  That may have been nature reason	 whyit was left to the appellant to sign Laxmibai's name on	 thedividend warrant for putting it into the Bank.	But whateverview  is taken I cannot see how it helps at all	 in  solvingany  question  that arises in this case.   The	trial  Courtfound it a riddle and did not rely on it.Next,  it is said that the appellant falsely denied that  hetravelled  in  the same compartment with Laxmibai  on  theirjourney	 to Bombay.  The denial was no doubt false.  But  ithad  been  made	 at the hearing.  He  had  admitted  to	 thedoctors at the hospital and to the Poona police on  November16, 1956, that he and the deceased had travelled in the samecompartment.   This falsehood therefore does  not  establishthat  the  death  of  Laxmibai was  an	unnatural  death,  aquestion  which I am now investigating.	 The fact that	theytravelled  in the same compartment may no doubt	 have  givenhim  an opportunity to administer poison to her and to	thatextent it is of course relevant,542     It	 is also said that there was a hospital	 called	 St.George's  Hospital  within  a  few  yards  of  the  VictoriaTerminus  Station  but the appellant  took  the	 unconsciousLaxmibai to the more distant G. T. ofHospital	with   anulterior  purpose.  That purpose it is said was that in	 theG.  T.	Hospital his friend Dr. Mouskar,  was  the  ResidentMedical Officer and the appellant wanted to secure his help,if necessary, in preventing the discovery of the crime	thathe  had committed.  The appellant said that he chose the  G.T. Hospital as he was familiar with it but not with the	 St.George's Hospital.  This seems to me to be too insignificanta thing.  The St. George's Hospital was no doubt very  near,but the G. T. Hospital was not very far away either.   Thereis nothing to show that the appellant knew that Dr.  Mouskarwas  on duty on the day in question.  There is	neither	 anyevidence  to show how much the two were friendly or how	 farDr.   Mouskar  would  have  gone  to  help  the	  appellant.Furthermore,  as  the appellant had  administered  a  poisonwhich  was  undetectable,  it  is not  clear  what  help  heanticipated  he would require from Dr. Mouskar.	  Again,  hemust  have known that as the Resident Medical  Officer,	 Dr.Mouskar	 was not in charge of the treatment of	patients  inthe hospital but only performed administrative functions andthat  the unconscious Laxmibai would have to be	 treated  byother  doctors.	  It  cannot be said  that  if	these  otherdoctors	 found anything wrong, Dr. Mouskar could  have	donemuch to help the appellant.  So it seems to me impossible todraw any inference against the appellant from the fact	thathe  had taken the unconscious Laxmibai to the  comparativelydistant	 G. T. Hospital.  It is then pointed out  that	whenLaxmibai  was  admitted to the G. T. Hospital,	she  had  noornaments on her person and no moneys with her and even	 herbag  and bedding had disappeared.  It is suggested that	 theappellant  had removed them and that this again proves	thathe had conceived the idea of misappropriating her propertieseven during her life time which supports the theory that  hecaused her death.  Now the bedding and bag can be  dismissedat once,543There  is no evidence as to what they contained.  They	wereof  small sizes.  It is reasonable to think that in the	 bagLaxmibai  had taken a few wearing apparels which  she  mightneed  for  her stay in Bombay which the evidence  shows	 shethought	 would not be of more than four days.  The  box	 andthe   bedding,	 must,	 therefore,  have   been   of	veryinsignificant value.  As regards ornaments, the evidence  isthat  usually she wore certain ornaments which might  be  ofsome value.  None of the witnesses, however, who saw her theday  she left Poona, has said that they found  ornaments  onher person.  It is not at all unlikely that as she was goingto  Bombay and was not sure where she would have to  put  upthere,	she  had  as  a measure of  safety,  taken  off	 theornaments  she	usually wore, before she left  Poona.	Thenagain, if the appellant had taken off the ornaments from theperson	of  Laxmibai he must have done it in  the  train  orwhile  taking  her to the hospital.  Now it is too  much  toassume that in the compartment in which they were travellingthere  were  no	 other	passengers.   The  removal  of	 theornaments would have been noticed by the other passengers orif done later, by the stretcher bearers or the taxi  driver.None  of  these persons was called.  Neither  is  there	 anyevidence that any search for them had been made.  Therefore,it  seems to me that on the evidence on record it cannot  besaid  definitely  that the appellant removed  any  ornamentsfrom the person of the unconscious Laxmibai.  With regard tothe  money, she must have brought some with her to meet	 herexpenses  in  Bombay.  It is more than likely that  she	 hadentrusted  the moneys to the appellant for safety which	 theappellant never returned.  There is no evidence that she hadmore  than Rs. 50 with her and there is no reason  to  thinkthat she was carrying a large sum.  The disappearance of themoney  does not prove that the appellant had  conceived	 thedesign of getting rid of her.Then  we  find	the appellant  describing  Laxmibai  in	 theHospital by the name 'Indumati Paunshe'.  It is said he	 didthis  to  prevent her identity being  discovered  after	 herdeath and that this shows that he had544already	 poisoned  her and knew that she was going  to	die.Now, so far as the name Indumati is concerned, that was	 oneof her names.  The -papers that the appellant maintained  inconnection  with  Laxmibai's treatment show that  he  mostlycalled	her by that name and never called her Laxmibai.	  Hesaid  that he was used to calling her by her maiden name  ofIndumati  Ponkshe and gave that name to Dr. Ugale  by  sheerforce  of habit.  Dr. Ugale however said that as he did	 notfollow	the surname he asked the appellant to spell  it	 andtook  it  down	as  spelt, namely,  as	"  Paunshe  ",.	 TheAppellant  denies that he gave the name Paunshe but says  hesaid  " Ponkshe ". The appellant's version receives  supportfrom the fact that the hospital clerk who also took down thename for another record of the hospital as the appellant wasgiving	it to Dr. Ugale, took it down as " Indumati  Pankshe".  Therefore, there is some doubt whether Dr.	Ugale  heardthe name correctly. However that may be, I doubt if the namePaunshe indicates that the appellant gave it with a view  toprevent	 disclosure of identity.  It is said that  his	planwas  to	 disappear after Laxmibai's death so that  her	bodywould become unclaimed and be disposed of as such.  If	thatwere  Bo, then nothing would turn on the name.	It  is	onlywhen  people  came  to	know that a woman  of  the  name  ofIndumati  Paunshe had died that the question as to  who	 shewas  would  have  &risen.   In view of	the  fact  that	 theappellant had given Indumati's address as care of himself atPoona,	it would be known that she belonged to Poona.  I  amvery  doubtful	if  an enquiry made at	Poona  for  IndumatiPaunshe would have kept back the real identity.	 Indumati orLaxmibai  had disappeared mysteriously; her maiden name	 wasPonkshe.   People interested in her would surely  have	beenled  by	 the  name Indumati Paunshe to	enquire	 if  it	 wasLaxmibai Karve.	 So it seems to me that if the appellant hadreally wanted that the woman he took to the hospital  shouldnever  be  discovered to have been Laxmibai, he	 would	haveused a totally different name.	I am unable to hold that theuse  of the name " Indumati Paunshe " is any clear  evidenceof   the  guilty  intention  of	 the  appellant.   In	thisconnection I have to refer to the545appellants  letter  of	November 14, 1956,  to	the  G..  T.Hospital in which he pointed out that in the hospital recordthe name had been taken down as " Pannshe " that is s,	withan  extra " n " and this should be corrected. By  this	timethe  appellant had clearly conceived the idea that the	newsof  the death of Laxmibai should be prevented from  becomingpublic.	  He  had also misled the  hospital  authorities  byinforming them that Indumati's brother would arrive to	takeover  her  body;  as already stated,  she  had	no  brother.Therefore this attempted correction in the name by  deletingthe extra " n " is really irrelevant; the extra " n "  wouldnot in any event have made the discovery of the identity  ofthe dead person easier.	 What led the appellant to make thisattempt cannot however be ascertained.Then I have to consider the fact that the appellant told Dr.Ugale  that Laxmibai had become unconscious of a  hystericalfit and she had a history of similar attacks before.  It  issaid  that this story about hysterical fit is false and	 hadbeen conceived to hide the fact that she had been  poisoned.The  appellant had denied that he had  mentioned  hystericalfit  to Dr. Ugale and said that he had only stated that	 shehad  suddenly  become unconscious.  That  he  had  mentionedsudden onset of unconsciousness in the train is admitted  byDr. Ugale.  It is somewhat curious that the appellant  wouldhave  mentioned	 both  "  hysterical fit  "  and  "  patientsuddenly   became  unconscious	in  the	 train	".   It	  issignificant  that "hysterical fit" was entered in  the	casepaper by Dr. Ugale under the head " Provisional Diagnosis  "a  thing, for which I think, the doctor in charge  has	someresponsibility.	  It may also be stated that Dr.  Anija	 didnot, say that the appellant mentioned hysterical fit to her.In  these circumstances I have some doubt if  the  appellanthad in fact mentioned hysterical fit " to Dr. Ugale.I  will however proceed-on the basis that the appellant	 didmention hysterical fit to Dr. Ugale.  Now, there is evidencethat  for  nine years upto 1948 Laxmibai had  suffered	fromhysterical fits.  There is no546evidence  one  way or the other whether she  had  such	fitsthereafter.   If  she had not, the  prosecution	 could	haveeasily produced evidence of it.	 The only evidence on  whichthe   prosecution  relied  was	that  of   Laxmibai's	son,Ramachandra.   All  that he said was that between  1943	 and1948 his mother suffered from fits and that in 1956 when  hehad  come  to  Poona for his marriage  his  mother  was	 notsuffering -from fits.  'Now, Ramachandra does not appear  tohave much knowledge of his mother's health.  He did not evenknow  what  kind  of fits these were  nor  that	 his  mothersuffered  from	diabetes.   Apart from	the  nature  of	 hisevidence,  it  has  to	be remembered  that  he	 was  livingsepartely from his mother since 1946 and was away from Poonasince 1952.  It cannot therefore be said that it would	havebeen  improbable  for  the appellant to	 have  thought	thatLaxmibai had a relapse of a hysterical fit.I now come to the fact that the address of Laxmibai given bythe  appellant	to  the hospital  authorities  was  his	 ownaddress.   It is said that he did so deliberately to  ensureall  communications concerning her from the hospital  comingto  him;  that he knew that Laxmibai was going	to  die	 andwanted	that  nobody else would know of her death.   I	findsome  difficulty  in appreciating this.	 I do not  see	whatcommunication could be addressed by the hospital authoritiesto Laxmibai after her death or when she was lying ill in thehospital.   Further  there was no other	 address  which	 theappellant  could  have given.  Laxmibai lived alone  in	 herflat  and when she was away, there would be no one there  toreceive any communication addressed to her at that  address.Her  only  son	Ramachandra was away  from  Poona.  She	 wasclearly more friendly with the appellant than with her otherrelatives, none of whom was a very near relative.  In  thesecircumstances  and particularly as he had taken Laxmibai  toBombay	it  seems only natural that he would  give  his	 ownaddress.  Again if he had given Laxmibai's own address, thatwould  have served his purpose as well for he had a room  inher house and because of his friendly relation with547Laxmibai,  would  have	been in charge of her  flat  in	 herabsence as he in fact was.  It would not have been difficultfor  him to ensure that any letters that came 'for  Laxmibaiwould reach him.  He could also have given an entirely falsename and address and disappeared from the scene	 altogether;the   body  of	Laxmibai  would	 then,	whether	 there	 waspostmortem examination or not, have been disposed of in	 duetime  as an unclaimed body and nobody would have ever  knownwhat   had  happened  to  Laxmibai.   Indeed,  it   is	 theprosecution  case  that this was the  appellant's  plan	 andthings	happened just as he had planned and that is  why  hedeliberately  brought Laxmibai to the hospital and gave	 hisown  address.  What strikes me is that this plan would	haveworked with any false address given.  I am therefore  unableto  think  that	 the fact that the appellant  gave  his	 ownaddress is a circumstance which can be reasonably  explainedonly on the hypothesis of his guilt.I  come now to the most important circumstance on which	 theCourts	below have strongly rested their conclusion.  It  issaid  that the endorsement made on the hospital	 case  paperreading " Asked for postmortem " under the direction of	 Dr.Variava	 had been crossed out and under the heading "  Causeof  death  " in that paper the entry " diabetic coma  "	 hadbeen  interpolated.  The Courts below have found that it  isthe appellant who had procured these alterations to be	madewith  the  help of his friend Dr. Mouskar.  If this  is	 so,then  no  doubt	 it  would be  a  very	strong	circumstancepointing  to  the  guilt  of  the  appellant  for  the	onlyreasonable  explanation of this act would be that he  wantedto prevent a postmortem examination which might reveal	thatLaxmibai  had  been poisoned.  As I have already  said,	 thealterations  had no doubt been made.  But in my view,  thereis  no	evidence  whatever to show that	 the  appellant	 hadanything to do with them.Before	state my reasons for this view, it  is necessary  toset  out  the relevant evidence on this	 point.	  Dr.  Anijaadmits	that she made the alterations but she says that	 shedid it in these circumstances: After548she had made the endorsement "Asked for postmortem " on	 thecase  paper, she asked the sister in charge of the  ward  tosend 'the case -paper to Dr. Mouskar whose duty it was to dothe  needful  as  regards the  postmortem  examination,	 andherself followed Dr. Variava on a round of the wards,  whichtook  her about an hour.  About 12-30 p.m. she proceeded  toDr.  Mouskar's	office	to make enquiries  as  to  when	 thepostmortem  examination was to be held. She met	 Dr.  Saify,the  Registrar of Unit No. 1 of the hospital in	 which	WardNo.  12	 was included, outside Dr.  Mouskar's  office.	 Dr.Saify  had the case paper in his hand and he told  her	thatDr.  Mouskar  thought that there was no need for  holding  apostmortem  examination as the case had been treated as	 oneof diabetic coma and also asked her to cancel the  directionabout  the postmortem examination and to show in the  columnmeant  for cause of death, " Diabetic coma ". As  Dr.  Saifywas  her official superior, she accordingly carried out	 hisdirections  and	 made the alterations in the case  paper  asrequired.I will now refer to Dr. Mouskar's evidence on this aspect ofthe  case which was as follows: The case paper	relating  toLaxmibai  came to his office at 1 p.m. on November  13.	  Atthat time the endorsement " Asked for postmortem " was stillthere  and diabetic coma had not been shown as the cause  ofdeath.	There was arrangement in the hospital for postmortemexamination  but  he  did  not proceed	to  arrange  for  itimmediately  as on the face of it it was not a	medico-legalcase  nor a road-side case.  It was the invariable  practiceto  ask	 for the permission of the Coroner for	holding	 thepostmortem  examination in all cases but before doing so  itwas necessary in nonmedico-legal cases to get the permissionof the relatives of the deceased for holding the  postmortemexamination.   In that view of the matter at 2 p.m. he	sentthe telegram to the appellant at his address as appearing inthe case paper.	 He never met the appellant in the hospital.On the next day, that is, November 14, about 4 p.m. he wroteto  the	 police	 to  remove the	 dead  body  to	 their	air-conditioned morgue in the J. J. Hospital549for better preservation as no reply to the telegram had beenreceived.  till then.  He sent a copy of this letter to	 theCoroner.   On the morning of November 15, somebody from	 theCoroner's  office rang him up and asked him about the  finaldiagnosis.  He thereupon sent the case paper through a	wardboy  to	 Unit  No.  1 with an oral  message  either  to	 theHonorary physician,, the Registrar or the Assistant Housemanas  to	whether they were able to tell him about  the  finaldiagnosis  and	whether they still  insisted  on  postmortemexamination.   He did this as there was no  final  diagnosisuptil  then and as the physicians often changed their  mindsin  a non-medico-legal case.  After about half an  hour	 thecase  paper  came back to him and he found  that  the  finaldiagnosis  had	been  stated as " Diabetic coma	 "  and	 theendorsement "Asked for postmortem" had been crossed out.  Hethen  wrote  out the death certificate and sent	 it  to	 theCoroner.The  Courts  below have disbelieved both Dr. Anija  and	 Dr.Mouskar as to their respective versions regarding the mannerin  which  the, case paper had been altered.  It has  to  benoticed	 that a art from the evidence of these two  doctors,there  is  no other evidence on this question.	 The  Courtsbelow have held that the alteration was made by Dr. Anija atthe  direction of Dr. Mouskar and that Dr. Mouskar had	beenpersuaded  to  give that direction by  the  appellant  whosefriend he was, on a representation that he, the'  appellant,was the patient's old family doctor and knew the case to  beone  of	 diabetic  coma and that it would  save	 the  familyhumiliation if the dead body was not cut up for a postmortemexamination.  They also held that the alteration was made onNovember 13, soon after the death of Laxmibai and before theappellant had left Bombay for Poona.  They have further heldthat Dr. Mouskar- got the alteration made as a friendly	 actfor the appellant and that he was in no way a conspirator inthe  crime.   There is no direct evidence  to  support	thisfinding	 but it has been inferentially arrived at  from	 theevidence of these two doctors. The  reasons  on which this finding is based  may  be	thusstated: (a) Dr. Mouskar was an old friend of the70550appellant;  (b) both Drs.  Anija and Mouskar had  lied	withregard	to  this part of their evidence; (c)  Dr.  mouskar'sconduct	 after	the death of Laxmibai and  his	evidence  incourt showed that he wanted to assist the appellant; (d) Dr.Anija  being  very  much  junior to  Dr.  Mouskar  had	beenprevailed upon by the latter to give false evidence; and (e)lastly, that no 'one excepting the appellant could have beeninterested in avoiding the postmortem examination.As  to the first reason, the only evidence on this  questionis  that of Dr. Mouskar.  All that he said was that in	1934he and the appellant had studied Inter Science in a  collegein Poona together and that he had stayed in Poona for  threedifferent periods, namely 1922-26, 1931-36 and 1948-51.	  Healso  said that while studying together he had come to	knowthe  appellant by name but had never talked to him  and	 hadnever come in contact with him since 1934.  The Courts belowhave  disbelieved  the	later part of the  evidence  of	 Dr.Mouskar	 and  have  held  that he  and	the  appellant	werefriendly.   This finding does not seem to me to be based  onstrong	grounds.   No reason has been given as	to  why	 Dr.Mouskar	 should	 be  disbelieved.  The	prosecution  led  noevidence to show that the two were friendly.  No witness hasbeen  found  to say that the two were seen talking  to	eachother  in the hospital.	 It has not been noticed,  that	 thedifference in age between the two was twelve years.I will take the, next three reasons together.  They are thatDrs.   Anija and Mouskar had both lied and that the  conductand  the  evidence of Dr. Mouskar showed that he  wanted  tohelp  the. appellant and lastly, that Dr. Anija	 gave  falseevidence only as she dared not estrange Dr. Mouskar who helda  much higher position.  There is no doubt that  Dr.  Anijatold lies.  The first lie was that she had tested the  urineat  6-30 a.m. for acetone.  She also interpolated  into	 thecase  paper an entry showing that she had found	 acetone  inthe  urine  which  she said she examined at  6-30  a.m.	 Dr.Variava	 said  that he took her to task for  diagnosing	 thecase  as diabetic coma without having tested the  urine	 foracetone, which she told him she had not551that  acetone  had been found on the  first  examination  ofurine  was  not there when he saw it at about  11  a.m.	 Thesecond	lie which Dr. Anija said was that she put through  atelephone  call	 to Dr. Variava about 7 a.m.  and  told	 himabout  the  symptoms  she had found and that  she  had	beengiving	insulin.  She said that Dr. Variava agreed with	 herdiagnosis  and asked her to continue the treatment  she	 hadstarted.   That	 this is untrue, will appear from  the	factthat Dr. Variava denied that this talk had taken place.	 Dr.Variava's  recollection	 is supported by the  fact  that  onarrival	 at  the  hospital he doubted if  the  case  was  ofdiabetic  coma and the treatment given was the correct	one.Further,  there	 is  a call book in the	 hospital  on  whichtelephone  calls made by the house physicians  are  entered.There  is no entry there showing a call having been made  byDr.  Anija  on Dr.Variava. The third lie that she  said	 wasthat  it  was Dr. Saify who told her outside  Dr.  Mouskar'soffice	to  make the alteration in the case paper.   It	 hasbeen clearly established that Dr. Saify was not on  November13 in Bombay at all.  He was then on leave and in Indore.I come now to Dr. Mouskar.  No' art of his evidence has beendirectly   found  to  be  false.   The	Courts	below	havedisbelieved him on improbabilities.  The first improbabilitythey found was in Dr. Mouskar's explanation that he did	 notarrange	 for  the postmortem examination immediately  as  heconsidered  the permission of the Coroner and the  relativesof  the	 deceased necessary before  holding  the  postmortemexamination  and  that this was the invariable	practice  innon-medico-legal cases.	 I do not know why it should be saidthat  this practice is improbable.  The prosecution did	 notlead any evidence to show that there was no such practice asspoken	to by 'Dr.  Mouskar.  That the Coroner's  permissionhad to be taken would be borne out by the fact as  appearingin the correspondence, that the police asked the Coroner  tohold  an inquest as the cause of death was not	known.	 TheCourts below referred to the telegram that Dr. Mouskar	sentto the appellant at about 2 p.m. on November 13 and observedthat  if Dr. Mouskar had delayed the postmortem	 examinationonly in order to obtain the552consent	 of the relatives, then the telegram would not	haveasked  the appellant to arrange for the removal of the	deadbody.  Dr. Mouskar said that he had intended to ask for	 thepermission  to	hold  the postmortem  examination  when	 theappellant  appeared on receipt of his telegram.	 The  Courtsbelow have not accepted this explanation.  It does not	seemto  me	that this explanation is so absurd that it  must  berejected.  No other view would fit in with the circumstancesof the case.  This I will explain now.It has to be remembered that the finding of the Courts belowis that Dr. Mouskar was not in any sense a conspirator	withthe appellant in the crime.  The learned Advocate General ofBombay, who appeared for the respondent, also made it  clearthat  he  did  not  suggest that  Dr.  Mouskar	was  in	 anyconspiracy.   On  the  evidence on the record  it  would  beimpossible  to hold that Dr. Mouskar was in  any  conspiracywith the appellant.  There is no reason whatever for him  tohave  done  that.  There is no evidence of  such  friendshipbetween	 the  appellant and Dr. Mouskar from  which  it	 canpossibly  be inferred that Dr. Mouskar would have  become  aparty  to  secreting  a diabolical crime  committed  by	 theappellant.  The trial Court expressly held, "I do not  thinkthat  at  that	time Dr. Mouskar  realised  that  there	 wasanything  suspicious about the death of Laxmibai, nor  do  Ithink  that  he was aiding or abetting	the  suppression  oftruth by cancelling the postmortem examination.	 " The	HighCourt also took the same view.	We then come to this that ifDr.  Mouskar had procured the cancellation of the  directionfor postmortem examination, he had done so without  thinkingthat  there  was  anything suspicious  about  the  death  ofLaxmibai,  and only to oblige his friend, the appellant,  bysaving	the  family  of the; deceased  from  humiliation  bycutting	 up her body.  Now that being so, when	Dr.  Mouskargot  the direction cancelled at the appellant's request,  hewould  naturally expect the appellant to take charge of	 thebody  and  to  remove  it  for	cremation.   Evidently,	 theappellant  had disappeared for otherwise Dr.  Mouskar  wouldnot have sent him a telegram to Poona.	What would.have beenthe normal reactions then of an553innocent man in Dr. Mouskar's position?	 He would have	beenvery much surprised.  He would have thought that he had beenlet  down.  It is not too much to think that he	 would	havegrown suspicious.  As an innocent man, as he has been  foundto  be, the only thing he could then possibly have done	 wasto  have restored the direction for  postmortem	 examinationand  to	 proceed to take steps to have it  held.   I  cannotimagine	 that  an innocent man in such	circumstances  wouldhave  acted  otherwise.	  It will  be  remembered  that	 theappellant's reply to the telegram was not received for	overtwo days and in the meantime Dr. Mouskar did nothing in	 thematter.	  I  find it impossible to hold	 that  Dr.  Mouskar,innocent as he was, would have waited all this time and donenothing	 about the postmortem examination at all.  It  wouldhave  been  impossible	for him then to have  asked  if	 thedoctors	 in  charge of the case still  wanted  a  postmortemexamination  as he actually did.  If he was not a  party  toany  conspiracy	 with  the  appellant,	I  cannot  think  itpossible  for him to have sent the telegram to Poona  askingthe  appellant	to  remove  the	 body  after  he  had	beeninnocently  made to obtain a cancellation of  the  directionand  found that the appellant had disappeared.	I  may	alsoadd that if the appellant had duped Dr. Mouskar and procuredhim to obtain a cancellation of the direction for postmortemexamination, it would be extremely unlikely for him to	havetaken  the  risk of disappearing from the  hospital  withoutmaking any arrangement for the disposal of the body for thenhe  could not be sure ,whether the postmortem would be	heldor  not.   It would have been more natural for him  to	havetaken  over the body and cremated it.  That would  not	haveaffected his design, as alleged by the prosecution, to	haveevidence  of  the natural death of Laxmibai created  and  tohave  kept  back  the  know]-edge  of  her  death  from	 herrelatives.   I therefore think that the telegram instead  ofshowing that Dr. Mouskar had already obtained a cancellationof the direction for postmortem examination rather indicatesthat  that direction had not till then been cancelled as  isDr. Mouskar's own evidence.  This makes the explanation554of  Dr.	 Mouskar  as  to why he sent  the  telegram  a	veryprobable explanation.  Now,	there  are other things which would  support  Dr.Mouskar's  evidence.  On November 14, about 4 p.m. he  wroteto  the	 police intimating them that a	Hindu  female  namedIndumati  Panshe who had been admitted into the hospital  onNovember  13 at 5-45 a.m. for treatment of  hysterical	fitshad  died the same day at 11-30 a.m.' He further  stated  inthat  letter  that a telegram had been sent to	the  addressgiven  at  the	time of the admission  of  the	patient	 butwithout a response and requested that the dead body might beremoved	 to the J. J. Hospital morgue.	This would  indicatetwo things.  First, that Dr. Mouskar was surprised at havingreceived  no answer from the appellant to his  telegram	 andthat being so, if he had been innocently induced to get	 thecase  paper  altered,  he  would  not  have  permitted	 thealteration  to remain there.  The second thing it  shows  isthat  Dr.  Mouskar  even in the	 afternoon  of	November  14referred  to hysterical fits as the illness of the  patient.This  would be impossible if the prosecution case  is  true,namely, that at about 1 p.m. on November 13, Dr. Mouskar hadprocured Dr. Anija to state in the case paper that the causeof death was diabetic coma.The next thing that the Courts below have found against	 Dr.Mouskar	 is  that his story of having received	a  telephonecall from the Coroner's office on the morning of November 15asking for the final diagnosis of the case was unbelievable.I find no reason to disbelieve Dr. Mouskar.  His evidence isstrongly supported by the death certificate which he  issuedon  that date stating diabetic coma as the cause  of  death.There  is  no reason to think that Dr.	Mouskar	 would	haveissued this certificate on the 15th unless he had been askedabout  the cause of death.  Furthermore, the police on	thatdate had actually wanted to know the cause of death as	willappear	from  their letter of November 15.   If	 the  policecould ask, I do not see why the Coroner's office could	not.In  that  letter the police asked Dr. Mouskar  to  send	 perbearer	the cause of death to enable them to dispose of	 thedead body. I have earlier referred to this letter.  It is ona copy555of  this  that the endorsement " Diabetic coma,	 Dr.  N.  S.Variava,  G. T. Hospital" had been made.  There is no  otherexplanation as to why Dr. Mouskar sent the death certificateon  this date and not on any other date.  Indeed, if he	 wasunder the impression that the appellant or a relative of thedeceased  would	 come  and  take  charge  of  the-body	 forcremation,  as the prosecution case must be, then  he  wouldnot  have issued the death certificate for that	 was  wantedonly  to  enable  the police to dispose of  the	 dead  body.Therefore  it seems to me likely that Dr. Mouskar  had	beenasked  by the Coroner about the cause of death.	 Now  if  hewas  so	 asked, it does not strike me as  wholly  improbablethat  he  asked the physicians in charge whether  they	werethen  in  a position to state the cause of  death  or  stillinsisted  on  a	 postmortem  examination.   It	has  to	  beremembered  that  till	then no suspicion  attached  to	 thecase..	Dr.  Mouskar said that he had  seen  the  physicianschange their opinion in such matters and had therefore askedwhether a postmortem examination was still required.  It hasalso to be remembered that Dr. Mouskar had no knowledge thatthe  direction for postmortem examination had been given  byDr.  Variava.	All that he knew was that such	a  directionappeared over the signature of Dr. Anija.  It does not	seemto  me	improbable that Dr. Mouskar on being  asked  by	 theCoroner	 to state the cause of death would have enquired  ofthe  physicians in charge about it.  If this version is	 nottrue, then the only other probable theory would be that	 thealteration  in	the case paper had been made at	 1  p.m.  onNovember  13,  which  as  I have  earlier  said,  cannot  beaccepted  in view of the telegram and the other	 records  inthis  case.   It was also said that  Dr.  Mouskar's  versioncannot	be accepted for it was not possible for him to	makeenquiries  about the cause of death through a ward  boy.   Ithink	this  would  be	 too  insignificant  a	ground	 fordisbelieving Dr. Mouskar.I may now deal with the letter of the police dated  November15  to	Dr. Mouskar asking for the cause of the	 death.	  Itwill  be remembered that this letter was sent along  with  acopy of it and on the copy the endorsement " Diabetic  coma,Dr. W. S. Variava.556G.  T.	Hospital " had been made.  Dr. Mouskar	denied	thatthese letters ever came to him.	 The Courts below have	beenunable	to accept his denial.  Their view is that it is	 Dr.Mouskar	 who got the endorsement set out above, to  be	madeand  is falsely denying it.  I am unable to  appreciate	 whyDr.  Mouskar should falsely deny it.  He was  innocent.	  Hehad  on	 that date issued the death certificate.   He  couldeasily	 have  admitted	 the  fact,  if	 he  had  made	 theendorsement  or got it made.  Now it seems to me that  thereis  no	evidence  that the letter was  produced	 before	 Dr.Mouskar.  In normal course, as spoken to by police InspectorKantak, who had written this letter, the original would havebeen retained at the office of Dr. Mouskar and only the copywould have come back to the police with an acknowledgment ofthe  receipt of the original endorsed on it.  That  did	 nothappen.	  Both the copy and the original were received	backby  Kantak.  The bearer who was sent to deliver	 the  letterwas  not  called.  There is therefore no  evidence  whateverthat  the  letters  were  actually  delivered  or  what	 hadactually  happened.   On the contrary, the  return  of	bothcopies	to  the	 police would show that they  had  not	beendelivered to Dr. Mouskar for if the letter had been deliver-ed,  then there is no reason why Dr. Mouskar would not	havegiven  a formal reply to it stating that diabetic  coma	 wasthe  cause  of death.  He would have had  no  difficulty  indoing  so  because  on	the  same  day	he  sent  the  deathcertificate mentioning diabetic coma as the cause of  death.He had no reason to take to subterfuge and to get the  words"  Diabetic  coma.   Dr. N. S. Variava.	  G  T.	 Hospital  "written on the copy by somebody.  It would therefore  appearthat  there is no reason to disbelieve Dr. Mouskar  when  hesaid that he bad not received the letters and had nothing todo  with  the endorsement made on the copy  of	the  letter.What  might  have happened was that  the  death	 certificatehaving	been  earlier  issued,	some  clerk  in	 the  officereturned   these   letters  and	 by  way  of   an   informalcommunication  of the cause of death made the endorse.	menton the copy.  It may be stated here that Dr. Anija  admittedto  the	 police	 that the words " Diabetic  coma  "  in	 theendorsement had been written by her557but in court she denied that she had written them.  This  isanother instance which makes me greatly doubt her  veracity.It  may be that she had written the words " Diabetic coma  "and  got  some	one  else  to write  out  the  rest  of	 theendorsement.I  come	 now to the last fact which the	 Courts	 below	havethought	 fit to disbelieve, in the evidence of Dr.  Mouskar.I  have	 earlier  mentioned that  when	Laxmibai  was  lyingunconscious  in	 Ward  No. 12, Dr. Anija had  sent  for	 theRegistrar.   Dr.  Anija stated that the Registrar  whom	 shesent  for  was	Dr. Saify.  This is untrue for,	 as  I	havealready said, it has been proved clearly that Dr. Saify	 wasnot  in Bombay at all on that day.  Now it appears that	 thehospital kept a call book in which a House Physician wantingto call the Registrar would make an entry and send it to theRegistrar.   This  call book was produced  on  September  2,1958, and it showed that Dr. Anija had herself written	downthe name of Dr. Shah as the Registrar whom she was  calling.What therefore had happened was that Dr. Saify being away onleave  to the knowledge of Dr. Anija, she had sent the	callto  Dr. Shah.  This call book conclusively proves  that	 Dr.Anija's	 statement that she had been told by Dr. Saify,	 theRegistrar,  to	make  the alteration in the  case  paper  isfalse.	 Dr. Mouskar had said in his evidence that he  couldnot  trace  this call book.  The Courts below  have  thoughtthat he was lying and was deliberately preventing this	callbook  from  coming to light so that Dr. Anija might  not  becontradicted  by her own writing that it was Dr.  Shah	whomshe had sent for which in its turn would show that her storythat  it  was  Dr.  Saify who had  asked  her  to  make	 thealteration  in the case paper was false.  Now Dr.  Mouskar'sevidence  was  concluded  on August 25,	 1958,	and  he	 hadretired	 from the office of the Resident Medical Officer  onAugust 14 preceding.  Dr. Anija's evidence was taken down onAugust 18 and August 19, 1958. 1 do not see why if the	callbook  was  considered to be of that importance,	 the  policecould not produce it after Dr. Mouskar had left office.	  Itwas  actually produced from the hospital and must have	beenlying  there all the time.  The next thing to be noticed  isthat there is558nothing	 on  the  record  to  show  that  Dr.  Mouskar	 wasinterested  in	establishing that Dr. Saify was on  duty  onNovember 13 and therefore prevented the call book from beingproduced.   In fact, Dr. Mouskar in his evidence  about	 Dr.Saify  stated that " he was not working in the	hospital  onthe  13, 14 and 15 November., I think also that he  was	 notstaying in his quarters during that period and I did not seeDr.  Saify  on these days at all." Therefore,  there  is  nobasis for suggesting that Dr. Mouskar deliberately preventedthe  production	 of the call book.  I may  here	 state	thatthere  is nothing in the evidence of Dr. Mouskar which	goesto show that he was supporting Dr. Anija in any of her lies.The  Courts below have excused the lies of Dr. Anija in	 theview  that she had told them as she dared not  estrange	 Dr.Mouskar.   Again, there seems to me to be no basis for	thisfinding.   There is nothing on the record to show  that	 Dr.Anija expected anything from Dr. Mouskar or would have	beenin any difficulty if she had told the truth even at the riskof  putting Dr. Mouskar in a difficult situation.  There  isno  evidence that Dr. Anija had any talk directly  with	 Dr.Mouskar concerning the case of the unconscious Laxmibai	 andtherefore  she	could not and did  not	directly  contradictanything that Dr. Mouskar said.	 Again, it is clear from theevidence that Dr. Anija had left the hospital on January 31,1957.  She had worked there without any remuneration.  Thereis no evidence that she had anything to do with the hospitalor  its	 Resident Medical Officer, after she  had  left	 thehospital.  Again, on the date that Dr. Anija gave  evidence,Dr.  Mouskar  had  already retired from his  office  at	 thehospital.   In these circumstances, I find no  justificationfor the conclusion that Dr. Anija had lied only out of	fearof Dr. Mouskar.	 I might also point out that the only lie inDr. Anija's evidence which the Courts below thought she saidout  of	 fear or at the persuasion of Dr.  Mouskar  was	 herstatement  that it was Dr. Saify who had told her  that	 Dr.Mouskar	  had	wanted	the  direction	as   to	  postmortemexamination  crossed  out and diabetic coma written  as	 thecause of death.	 I have earlier stated that dr. Mouskar	 hasgone against this part of559Dr.  Anija's  evidence by saying that Dr. Saify was  not  inBombay	on the day in question.	 It is clear therefore	thatit was not Dr. Mouskar who had wanted that Dr. Anija  shouldinterpose Dr. Saify between him and her in the matter of thedirection  for	altering the case paper.   Further,  if	 Dr.Mouskar	 really wanted that Dr. Anija should put  the  blamefor  the alteration on somebody else, then Dr.	Anija  wouldnot have mentioned that Dr. Saify told her that Dr. Mouskar,had wanted the alteration.  She would simply have said	thatit  was	 at  Dr.  Saify's  order  only	that  she  made	 thealteration  or	put  the responsibility on  Dr.	 Shah.	 TheCourts	below  have  been unable to explain  why  Dr.  Anijabrought in Dr. Saify at all.  I think this is capable of  anexplanation  as	 I  will  show	later.	 The  net   positiontherefore  is that Dr. Anija was clearly lying; there is  noclear  proof  that  Dr. Mouskar had lied  at  all.   On	 thecontrary,  his	evidence  and  conduct	would  seem  to	  beconsistent  with the contemporaneous record and there is  nomaterial  on which it can be found that Dr. Anija  told	 thelies as she was afraid of Dr. Mouskar.I  come	 now to the last reason on which  the  Courts  belowfound that it must have been the appellant who procured	 thealteration in the case paper.  It has been said that no	 oneelse  was interested in getting that done.  I take  it	thatthis  does  not	 mean  a  finding  that	 the  appellant	 wasinterested in getting the alteration made for then of coursehis guilt would already have been assumed.  What it means isthat  if it is not possible to find reasonably that any	 oneelse was interested in getting the alteration made, then  itwould  fit  in	with  the  theory  that	 the  appellant	 hadcommitted the crime and therefore was interested in  gettingthe  alteration	 made.	 The real question  is,	 can  it  bereasonably said on the evidence that there was no one  otherthan  the appellant who could be interested in	getting	 thealteration  made  ?  I	think  it  cannot.   On	 the   factsestablished and without making any assumption one way or theother,	it seems to me very probable that it was  Dr.  Anijawho was interested in preventing the postmortem	 examinationand  therefore	in  making the interpolations  on  the	casepaper.	I will now state m reasons for this view.	  560I  have earlier stated that Dr. Anija examined the urine  ofthe  patient at 6-30 a.m. on November 13. There is an  entrywith regard to it in the case paper, which reads 'Sugar +  ++  Albumin-Acetone + + There is little reason to doubt	thatDr. Anija did examine the urine at that time for sugar,	 forotherwise  she	was not likely to have started	the  insulininjections. She gave two of these, one at 6-30 a.m. and	 theother  at  about 9 a.m. Dr. Variava's recollection  is	thatwhen the case paper was shown to him about 11 a.m. the entry"Sugar + + + Albumin-" was there but the entry " Acetone + +" was not there and that Dr. Anija told him that she had notexamined  the urine for acetone. The entry " Acetone +	+  "was  clearly  interpolated  in	the  case  paper  later.  Itwasbecause she had not tested the urine for acetone but	 hadnone  the less started the treatment for diabetic coma	thatDr. Variava had taken her to task and asked her to test	 theurine for acetone. All this clearly shows that Dr. Anija hadinterpolated  the entry " Acetone + + " at some later  time.The trial Court thought that Dr. Mouskar having invented thetheory	of  diabetic  coma  "  must  have  also	 thought  itnecessary  to make entries regarding the presence of acetone+  +. in the case record " to support this false  diagnosis.This is nobody's case. Such a finding would necessarily meanthat  Dr.  Mouskar was in conspiracy with the  appellant  tohide  the crime by creating evidence in support	 of  naturaldeath  of the patient. The findings of the trial Court	thatDr. Mouskar was innocent and that he had procured Dr.  Anijato  make the -entry " Acetone + + " cannot  stand  together.The  latter  ending  must  be  rejected	 as  it	 is   purelyinferential.  The High Court did not find that the  entry  "Acetone	 + + " had been made by Dr. Anija at the  persuasionof  Dr. Mouskar. But it appears to have taken the view	thatDr.  Anija  having  been induced by  Dr.  Mouskar  to  statediabetic  coma as the cause of death,  herself	incorporatedbefore	the  papers were submitted to the Coroner  an  entrywith  regard  to the examination of the urine  in  the	casepaper  and in that entry included " Acetone + +	 ".  Whetherthe High Court is right in its view that the entire entry asto the result561of  urine test at 6-30 a.m. of November 13, 1956,  had	beenmade  in the case paper later is a matter which I  need	 notdiscuss.  The only question is who made the entry "  Acetone+ + " and when.	 I may state here that the papers were	sentto  the Coroner at the time Of the  postmortem	examination,namely,, on November 22, 1956.	According to the High Court,therefore,  the entry " Acetone + + " had been made  by	 Dr.Anija  on her own and Dr. Mouskar had nothing to do with  itand  that  Dr. Anija made the entry not at about 1  p.m.  onNovember  13, 1956, when she crossed out the  direction	 forpostmortem  examination and wrote out diabetic coma  as	 thecause  of death but almost nine days later.  The High  Courtdid not accept that part of Dr. Mouskar's evidence where  hesaid that he was positive that the entry " Acetone + + " wasin the case paper when it reached him at 1 p.m. on  November13.  Earlier he had said that he had not read the case paperfully  when it first came to him.  Dr. Mouskar	was  plainlymaking	a  mistake.  It is nobody's case that  it  was	thenthere.	 Even on the prosecution case it was added  sometimelater, that is, when after the receipt of the case paper Dr.Mouskar	 had  been persuaded by the appellant to  procure  acancellation as to the direction for postmortem examination.We then come to this that the entry " Acetone + +" had	beenmade  by  Dr. Anija on her own.	 If she did this,  she	musthave  had some reason for it.  I cannot imagine that  reasonbeing anything else excepting to create evidence in  supportof  her diagnosis of diabetic coma.  The next lie which	 Dr.Anija  spoke  and which I wish now to refer,  is  the  falsestory of her telephone talk with Dr. Variava at about 7 a.m.She  said  that	 she then informed  Dr.	 Variava  about	 thecondition  of the patient and that she had  started  insulininjection and further that Dr. Variava told her to  continuethe treatment.	I have earlier said that this statement	 wasa  clear falsehood and given reasons for this view.   It  isnobody's  case,	 and it could not be, that Dr.	Mouskar	 hadasked her to tell this lie.  Why then did she do so?  Again,the  only  possible reason that I can think of is  the	samethat  I	 have given earlier, namely, that she  was  keen  on'creating evidence in support of the line of treatment	thatshe had given to562the patient.  She had been treating the patient as a case ofdiabetic coma.	It is clear from her evidence and of  coursefrom  that of Dr. Variava, that he had reprimanded  her	 foradopting  that line of treatment without having	 tested	 theurine  for acetone.  She had clearly made a mistake  in	 thetreatment  of  the  case and this might have put  her  in  adifficulty  with  the hospital authorities and also  in	 herfuture professional career.  It was clearly her interest  tosee that her mistake was not finally established as a resultof the postmortem examination which had been directed by Dr.Variava.   In  these circumstances, she was  under  a  greattemptation to prevent the postmortem examination which mighthave  revealed her mistake.  It must be remembered that	 shehad  just started on her professional career and was a	veryyoung  person.	 I am unable therefore to hold	that,  apartfrom the appellant there was no one else who could have beeninterested  in crossing out the direction as  to  postmortemexamination  and  inserting diabetic coma as  the  cause  ofdeath.	In the circumstances that I have mentioned, it seemsquite probable that Dr. Anija had made the alteration in thecase paper entirely on her own and to save herself from	 thepossible effects of her mistake.  It also seems probable  tome  that Dr. Anija had made the alterations on November	 15,when  Dr. Mouskar had sent the case paper through  the	wardboy for ascertainment of the cause of death.I  have earlier said that Dr. Anija had	 falsely  introducedDr.  Saify as the person who had told her that	Dr.  Mouskarhad wanted the direction as to postmortem examination to  becrossed	 out and diabetic coma to be stated as the cause  ofdeath.	 I have also said that Dr. Mouskar did	not  supportDr. Anija as to the presence of Dr. Saify in the hospital onthe  day in question.  Why then did Dr. Anija introduce	 thename  of Dr. Saify ? I have said that the Courts below	havenot  been able to find any explanation as to why  Dr.  Anijaintroduced the name of Dr. Saify.  It seems to me that	whenthe alteration which she had made on her own, was found	 outin  the	 course of the investigation, she had to  give	someexplanation  as	 to  why she had made it.   She	 thought  ofsaying	that she did it under the orders of Dr. Mouskar	 whowas very563much  her  senior and whom she was bound to obey.   But	 shealso realised that Dr. Mouskar was sure to deny that he	 hadasked  her  to make the alteration and as against  his,	 herevidence  was  not likely to be accepted. It  was  thereforethat  she  hit	upon the idea of interposing  Dr.  Saify  inbetween her and Dr. Mouskar in the hope that Dr. Saify beingalso  a	 very  young person, there was some  chance  of	 herevidence  being	 accepted as against his.  Apart  from	thatthere does not appear to be any other explanation as to	 whyDr. Anija introduced the name of Dr. Saify.  She had clearlyforgotten while inventing this story that Dr. Saify was awayon  leave but that of course makes no difference for if	 shehad  remembered	 it,  she might have  named  somebody  else,probably  Dr. Shah or Dr. Patel who worked in Unit No. 2  ofthe  Hospital.	Then it has to be remembered that Dr.  Anijaadmitted to the police that she had written out the words  "Diabetic  coma " on the letter from the police	of  November15, asking for the cause of death and this she later denied.All  this would make more probable the view that it was	 Dr.Anija  who in order to prevent the detection of the  mistakemade by her in the treatment of Laxmibai had the endorsement"Asked	for post-, mortem " crossed out and inserted in	 thecase paper diabetic coma as the cause of death and that	 shehad not been asked by Dr. Mouskar to make the alteration  inthe case paper.I  think it right to state here that it cannot be said	thatDr.  Shah  was	also to blame for  the	wrong  diagnosis  ofdiabetic coma.	Dr. Anija said that pursuant to her call theRegistrar  came	 at  about 8-45 a.m.  and  approved  of	 herdiagnosis  and	advised a further insulin  injection  of  40units.	 She also said that the Registrar wrote on the	casepaper the words "Inj.  Insulin 40 units Iv. glucose 20 c.c."By  "  the Registrar " she was of course  referring  to	 Dr.Saify.	It is clear from the call book that it was Dr. Shah,who was the Registrar of Unit No. 2 who had been sent for byDr. Anija.  Dr. Shah said in his evidence that he must	havegone  to  the  patient pursuant to the call but	 he  had  norecollection of the case at all.  He denied that the entry "Inj.   Insulin 40 units Iv. glucose 20 c.c."was in his	handwriting. Dr. Patel who was564officiating as the Registrar of Unit No. 1 in the absence ofDr.  Saify on leave, also denied that that entry was in	 hishandwriting.   Dr. Shah said from the sequenceof time  notedin the call book and the case paper, that he must have	goneto the ward before 6-30 a.m. According to Dr. Shaw he  couldnot  have seen the case paper when he called because he	 wasnot  the Registrar of Unit No. 1. He admitted that  he	musthave advised Dr. Anija, about the case.	 What the advice waswe  do	not know.  It is clear however that  Dr.  Anija	 hadstarted	 treating  the case as diabetic coma  and  given  40units of insulin before she sent for the Registrar.   Indeedaccording  to  her, the Registrar, who must  have  been	 Dr.Shah, arrived at 8.45 a.m. So we get that Dr. Anija  startedtreatment  of diabetic coma and gave insulin prior  to	6-30a.m.  and  her statement that the Registrar wrote  down	 thedirection for a second insulin injection of 40 units at 8-45a.m.  is  false.  It is therefore clear that  the  treatmentgiven  to  the	unconscious  Laxmibai  had  been  under	 thejudgment  of Dr. Anija alone.  It would follow that  Dr.Shahhad  no	 responsibility for that treatment.   This  is	alsosupported  by  the  fact that Dr. Anija	 did  not  tell	 Dr.Variava	 that Dr. Shah had also thought it to be a  case  ofdiabetic coma.There  is another circumstance against the  appellant  whichmust now be noticed, and that is that the appellant left thehospital  soon after the death of Laxmibai  without  showingthe least care as to what happened thereafter.	This conductconsidered  with  the appel. lant's letter of  November	 14,1956, stating falsely that " Indumati's " brother would cometo  take  over	her body and  further  considered  with	 thesubsequent   conduct  of  the  appellant   in	fraudulentlymisappropriating  the  deceased	 Laxmibai's  money   clearlyindicates  that immediately after the death of Laxmibai	 theappellant  had	conceived the idea of  misappropriating	 herproperties.  It has been suggested that it would be somewhatstrange	 that  the  dishonest intention cropped	 up  in	 theappellant's mind so suddenly and therefore it is  reasonableto think that he had entertained that design even during thelifetime  of Laxmibai.	The Courts below have accepted	thatsuggestion.  I cannot say that that is an unreasonable	viewto take.565But  supposing the appellant had during Laxmibai's  lifetimecast a covetous eye on her properties, would that be  enoughto  justify a finding that her death had been  an  unnaturaldeath  ? I do not think it would.  The design may provide  amotive for murder; but the murder, that is, in this case  anunnatural  death, cannot be proved by it.  That design	doesnot  exclude  the possibility that Laxmibai died  a  naturaldeath  and  the appellant made full use of  the	 opportunitythereby provided to carry his design into effect.I think I should mention here one other aspect of the  case.The  trial  Court observed that the symptoms  found  in	 therecord	as  to the last illness and death  of  Laxmibai	 allclearly	 pointed  to the conclusion that death	was  due  tohypoglycemia  and  that	 hypoglycemia might be	one  of	 thepossible causes of her death.  The trial Court however	heldthat  there  was  nothing  to  show  in	 the  symptoms	thathypoglycemia  could have been of spontaneous  origin  thoughthe matter was not very clear.	It would seem that the trialCourt thought that the hypoglycemia had been induced by	 twoinjections  of	insulin given by the appellant	to  Laxmibaisometime  on November 12.  The trial Court for this  purposerelied on the evidence of Shantabai a maid servant  employedby  Laxmibai,  who said that on November 12,  the  appellantgave  Laxmibai two injections.	This maid servant  was	deafand  dumb  and	her  evidence must  be	of  doubtful  value.However that may be, there is nothing to show that death wascaused	by hypoglycemia brought about by the two  injectionsgiven by the appellant, assuming that he had given them.  Ithas to be remembered that in the hospital Laxmibai was giventwo further injections of insulin of 40 units each.  It	 maybe that these injections really caused her death.  That is apossibility  which on the finding of the trial Court  cannotbe  brushed  aside.  Now, if that is so,  then	clearly	 theappellant is not responsible for the death of Laxmibai.	  Hehad  done  nothing to induce Dr. Anija or any of  the  otherdoctors	 in the hospital to give more insulin  to  Laxmibai.There is no evidence to that effect.  Dr. Anija was clear inher evidence that she never consulted Dr. Lagu regarding thediagnosis that death was due to diabetic. I need not furtherinto this aspect of the566matter	for all that I wish to point out is that  the  trialCourt  had thought that hopoglycemia might be the  cause  ofdeath.	The High Court, thought that it	 was not possible inview  of  the absence of evidence about the time  taken	 forinsulin to induce hypoglycemia to hold that death was due tohypoglycemia induced by a massive dose of insulin.  It seemsto  me that if there was no evidence, that was the fault  ofthe prosecution and not of the appellant.  In all cases	 andparticularly  in a case of this kind, it is the duty of	 theprosecution  to prove that the death was an unnatural  deathand exclude by evidence completely, the possibility of deathhaving	been caused by some instrumentality other  than	 theappellant.   This is another reason for saying that  it	 hasnot  been clearly established in this case  that  Laxmibai'sdeath  was  an	unnatural death or has been  caused  by	 theappellant.I have so long been discussing the facts which are  supposedto  lead towards the guilt of the appellant.  I propose	 nowto  deal  with	some of the facts which seem to	 be  in	 hisfavour.	  The prosecution case is that the appellant had  inthe  train administered to her an undetectable poison  whichcaused	her death.  Now, if the appellant had done that,  hemust  have  made  a plan for it before	he  started  on	 thejourney	 to Bombay with her from Poona.	 It  seems  unlikelythat  if he had done that, he would have made no  effort  tokeep  it  a secret that he was taking her  to  Bombay.	 Theevidence  is  clear that he made no such effort.   The	nextfact  that  has to be faced by the prosecution is  that	 therailway compartment would be a most unusualplace in which toadminister a poison.  The appellant could not have  expectedthat  there would be a compartment for Laxmibai and  himselfin  which  there would be no other  passenger.	 Indeed	 thetrial  Court  thought  that  there  must  have	been   otherpassengers  in that compartment.  That being so, it  becomesimprobable  that the appellant had planned to poison her  inthe train.  Again, it has been proved as a fact by Dr. Sathehimself that the appellant had made an appointment with	 himfor November 13. Was it necessary for him to have done	thisif  he	knew that Laxmibai would die before the	 hour  fixedwith Dr. Sathe ? Further, if he had administered567a  poison to Laxmibai, would he have taken her to a.  publichospital?   That  would	 have  been  impossible	 unless	 theappellant   was	 perfectly  certain  that  the	poison	 wasabsolutely  undetectable.   That requires a  great  deal  ofknowledge  of poisonous drugs which there is no evidence  tothink	the  appellant	possessed.   But  assume  that	 theappellant  was	so certain that the poison  would  never  bedetected,  why	then  should  he  have	worried	 about	 thepostmortem  examination	 at all?  If it is  found  that	 theappellant had not prevented the postmortem examination beingheld,  there  would  be very little on	which  to  base	 hisconviction for the murder of Laxmibai by poisoning.  Nor canit  be	said  that the appellant was not  sure	whether	 thepoison would be detected or not, but none the less took	 therisk of taking the unconscious Laxmibai to the G. T.hospitalin the hope that if any difficulty arose, he could  rely  onDr. Mouskar to help him.  There is no	evidence on which wecan  hold  that	 Dr. Mouskar would have helped	him  if	 anysuspicion  as  to  Laxmibai's death having  been  caused  bypoision	 had  arisen.	It has to  be  remembered  that	 Dr.Mouskar	 was  not  doing  the work of  a  physician  in	 thehospital but was in charge only of the administration.	 Allthese  are  very strong circumstances  indicating  that	 theappellant had not administered any poison to Laxmibai on thetrain.	Very cogent reasons would be required to dispel	 thepresumption in favour of the appellant arising from them.  Ifind no such reasons in the case.In  the	 net  result the circumstances appear to  me  to  bethese.	First, the appellant had a design during  Laxmibai'slifetime  to  misappropriate  her  properties.	 This	onlysupplies the motive for causing her death but does not provethat  the  death  which occurred, was  an  unnatural  death.Secondly,  the	appellant did not give to the  hospital	 thecorrect	 name of Laxmibai : the name given however  was	 notsuch  as  from	it  her	 identity  could  never	 have	beendiscovered.   Thirdly,	the appellant gave his	own  addressinstead of that of Laxinibai.  It seems to me that that	 wasa natural thing for him to have done in the circumstances ofthe case for there would have been no one in Laxmibai's flatto receive her letters and there there was no other  addresswhich the appellant could have568given.	Further, the address given necessarily connected theappellant  with the last hours of  Laxmibai'slife-a  conductnot  very  probable in a person who had	 brought  about	 herdeath.	 The  theory  that that address was  given  only  toensure that communications from the hospital concerning	 thedead  Laxmibai	should	reach  the  appellant  is  not	veryplausible.  It is clear that if the appellant had not  givenhis  own address, the only other address he  could  possiblyhave given would have been Laxmibai's address.	I am  unableto  appreciate	what communication the hospital	 could	havesent to Laxmibai at her address after her death or when	 shelay in the hospital.  In any event, the appellant would havehad no difficulty in getting hold of any such  communicationsent  to  Laxmibai's own address.  Fourthly,  the  appellanttold  Dr. Ugale that Laxmibai had had a hysterical fit.	  Itis doubtful whether he said so, and also whether, if he did,it  was purposefully false.  What purpose it served  is	 notclear.	The appellant did not mention hysterical fit to	 thedoctor in charge of the treatment nor did he do anything  toinduce	her to take a different line of treatment from	thatwhich she had adopted.	He did nothing to induce any idea inher mind as to the cause of the illness or the disease.	  Inthese  circumstances it does not seem possible to hold	thathysterical  fit	 had  been mentioned  by  the  appellant  toprevent	 detection  of	the  fact  that	 Laxmibai  had	beenpoisoned.   Lastly, come the series of the appellant's	actsfrom  immediately  after  Laxmibai's  death  indicating	 hisintention  to  acquire her properties  and  the	 acquisitionthereof	 by deception and forgery.  These cannot prove	thatLaxmibai  died	an unnatural death.   Considering  them	 alltogether,  I  am unable to think that  the  only  reasonableconclusion  possible  is  that Laxmibai	 died  an  unnaturaldeath.In my view the prosecution has failed to prove the guilt  ofthe appellant.In the result I would allow the appeal.BY  COURT.  In accordance with the opinion of the  majority,the appeal is dismissed.				   Appeal dismissed.569