PETITIONER:ABDUL JABAR BUTT	Vs.RESPONDENT:STATE OF JAMMU & KASHMIR(with connected petition)DATE OF JUDGMENT:13/11/1956BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  281		  1957 SCR   51ACT:Preventive  Detention-Legality-Time Prescribed for  communi-cating	grounds of detention to the detenue-'As soon as	 maybe',  Meaning  of-Declaration enabling Withholding  of	suchcommunication, if must be made by Government  before  expiryof  such time-- Jammu and Kashmir Preventive  Detention	 Act(IV of Sambat 2011),S.	 s (1), Proviso.HEADNOTE:The  two  petitioners were detained under S.- 3 (1)  Of	 theJammu  and  Kashmir Preventive Detention Act  on  April	 26,1956, with a view to preventing them from acting in a mannerprejudicial  to the security of the State.  No grounds	werecommunicated  to  them	under s. 8 (1) of  the	Act  and  nodeclarations  were made under the proviso of  that  section.The  petitioners applied to the High Court under s.  491  ofthe  Code of Criminal Procedure and during the	pendency  ofthose applications, on June 30, 1956, declarations under theproviso	 were made by the Government to the effect  that  itwould  be against the public interest to communicate to	 thepetitioners the grounds on which the orders of detention hadbeen  made against them.  On July 28, 1956, the	 High  Courtrejected  the  applications.  The cases of  the	 petitionerswere			     52reviewed  by  the  Government under s.14(2) of	the  Act  inconsultation  with  a person nominated for that	 purpose  onJune  4,  1956, and it was satisfied  that  the	 petitionersshould	continue  to be detained  and,	accordingly,  passedorders	to that effect under s. 14 of the Act  on  September26,  1956.  The question was whether the  declarations	weremade  within the time prescribed by s. 8 (1) of the Act	 forcommunicating the grounds of detention and, if not,  whetherthe petitioners had been lawfully detained.Held, that the expression 'as soon as may be' in sub-s.	 (1)of  s. 8 of the Jammu and Kashmir Preventive Detention	Act,whereby the Act prescribed the time within which the Govern-ment  must  communicate to the detente the  grounds  of	 hisdetention,   meant  within  a  reasonable  time,  with	 theunderstanding  to  do the act within the  shortest  possibletime, from the date of detention.King's	Old  Country, Ltd. v. Liquid Corbonic  Can.   Corpn.Ltd. (1942) 2 W.W.R. 603, followed.Ujagar	Singh v. The State of the Punjab, [1952] S.C.R.	 756and Keshab Nilkanth Joglekay v. The Commissioner of  Police,Gyeater	 Bombay,  Petition  No.	 602  Of  1956,	 decided  onSeptember 17, 1956, referred to.Although  it might not be possible in many cases to  computethe  span of time thus indicated by hours, days	 or  months,what  was possible and the Court had to do in the facts	 andcircumstances  of each particular case, was to find  whetherthe  act  was  or was not done within  the  time  which	 wasreasonably convenient or reasonably requisite.The  proviso  to the sub-section clearly  implied  that	 thepower  it  vested  in the Government  to  exclude  from	 theoperation  of the sub-section certain class of	detenues  bymaking the required declaration, must be exercised and	suchdeclaration made before the expiry of the time prescribed bythe sub-section for communicating to the detenue the groundson which the detention order against him had been made.Hissam-Ud-Din Bandy and Others v. The State, A.I.R. 1935 J.&K. 7, overruled.Consequently,  as in the instant cases the affidavits  filedon   behalf  of	 the  Government  disclosed  no	  particularcircumstance  or  reason  why  the  declarations  under	 theproviso could not have been made before more than two monthshad elapsed from the dates when the orders of detention	 hadbecome	effective,  the detenues must be held to  have	beendeprived of their liberty otherwise than in accordance	withthe  procedure established by the Act, embodying as it	doesthe  fundamental right guaranteed under Art. 22 (5)  of	 theConstitution of India, and must be released forthwith.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION : Petition Nos. 173 & 174 of 1956.53Under  Article	32  of the Constitution for a  writ  in	 thenature of Habeas Corpus.J.B. Dadachanji, Amicus Curiae, for the petitioners.M.C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, Porus A.    Mehtaand R.H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1956.  November 13.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyDASC.J.-These  two  petitions  raise a	common	question  ofinterpretation	of s. 8 of the Jammu and Kashmir  PreventiveDetention   Act,  2011,	 being	Act  IV	 of  (Sambat)	2011(hereinafter  referred to as the Act).	Both  the  petitionshave been filed under Art. 32 of the Constitution of  India,complaining  that  the petitioners have been and  are  beingwrongfully  detained  under the Act and	 praying  for  theirimmediate release.By  two	 separate  orders  made by  the	 Jammu	and  KashmirGovernment  on	April  26,1956, in exercise  of	 the  powersconferred  on  it  by  sub-s. (1) of s. 3  of  the  Act	 theGovernment  ordered that the petitioners be detained.	Eachof the orders recited that the Government had been satisfiedwith respect to each of the petitioners that with a view  topreventing  him from acting in a manner prejudicial  to	 thesecurity  of  the State, it was necessary to make  an  orderthat  he  be detained.	No grounds having been	supplied  toeither	of the petitioners nor any declaration	having	beenmade  under  the  proviso  to s. 8 (1)	of  the	 Act  for  aconsiderable  time, each of the petitioners applied  to	 theHigh Court of Jammu and Kashmir under s. 491 of the Code  ofCriminal  Procedure for an order in the nature of a writ  ofhabeas corpus.	During the pendency of those applications onJune  30, 1956, that is to say, more than two  months  afterthe  date of the original order of detention, a	 declarationwas made by the Government under the proviso to s. 8 (1)  tothe  effect that it would be against the public interest  tocommunicate  to	 the  detenues	the  grounds  on  which	 thedetention orders had been made.	 On July 28, 1956, both	 thepetitions were dismissed by the High Court.  It appears thatthe case of each of the detenues had			     54been reviewed by the Government under sub-s. (2) of s. 14 ofthe  Act  in  consultation with a person  nominated  by	 theGovernment  for	 that  purpose	on June	 4,  1956,  and	 theGovernment  was satisfied that the detenues should  continueto  be	detained.   Accordingly on September  26,  1956,  inexercise  of  the powers conferred by s. 14 of the  Act	 theGovernment  issued  two separate orders directing  that	 thesaid  two  detenues  do continue to  be	 detained.   In	 themeantime on September 19, 1956, the two present applicationswere  filed before this Court.	The question is whether	 thedeclaration  under  the proviso to s. 8 (1) of the  Act	 wasmade  within the time fixed by s. 8 (1) of the Act  for	 thecommunication  to the detenues of the grounds on  which	 theorders of detention had been made, and 'if not, whether	 thedetention became illegal.These  two petitions came up for hearing before	 a  DivisionBench  of this Court on October 20,1956, when the  attentionof the Court was drawn to a Full Bench decision of the Jammuand Kashmir High Court in Hissam-Ud-Din Bandy and Others  v.The  State (1), where it was held that though it was  highlyundesirable that a detenue should remain in suspense,  therewas  no	 time  limit  fixed by	the  proviso  for  making  adeclaration and that, therefore, where the detention was forreasons	 of  security  of  State, the  mere  fact  that	 thedeclaration'  had  been	 delayed beyond	 a  reasonable	timeafter  the date of detention did not vitiate the  detention.As  the decision of a Full Bench consisting of three  Judgesrequired  consideration,  the Division Bench took  the	viewthat  the petitions should be placed before a larger  Bench.Hence  the  petitions  have  come up  before  us  for  finaldisposal.Some of the provisions of the Constitution of India, subjectto  some exceptions and modifications, were extended to	 theState of Jammu and Kashmir by the Constitution	(Applicationto Jammu and Kashmir) Order, 1954, made by the President  inexercise of the, powers conferred on him by cl. (1) of	Art.370 of the Constitution.  Amongst other things in Art. 35 as(1)  A.I.R. 1955 J. & K. 7.55extended  to  Jammu  and Kashmir a  new	 clause	 was  added,namely,"  (c) no law with respect to preventive detention  made  bythe  legislature of the State of Jammu and Kashmir,  whetherbefore	or  after  the	commencement  Of  the	Constitution(Application  to  Jammu and Kashmir) Order, 1954,  shall  bevoid  on the ground that it is inconsistent with any of	 theprovisions  of	this Part, but any such law  shall,  to	 theextent	of such inconsistency, cease to have effect  on	 theexpiration  of five years from the commencement of the	saidOrder, except as respects things done or omitted to be	donebefore the expiration thereof."Therefore,  the	 detention  of	the  petitioners  cannot  bequestioned  for five years from the date of the	 President'sorder on the ground that the Act is inconsistent with any ofthe  fundamental  rights guaranteed under Part	III  of	 theConstitution.	The legality of the  petitioners'  detentionwill,  therefore, depend on and have to be considered  on  atrue construction of the provisions of the Act.Turning	 now to the Act we come to s. 3, which gives to	 theGovernment and some of its officers specifically  enumeratedtherein	 the  power to make an order  of  detention  againstcertain	 persons.  The condition precedent to the making  ofsuch  order  is that the Government must be  satisfied	withrespect,  to any person that with a view to  preventing	 himfrom acting in any manner prejudicial to certain  enumeratedobjects it is necessary to make an order of detention.	 Theenumerated objects include 4 items, namely, (i) security  ofthe State or (ii) the maintenance of public order or(iii)themaintenance of the loyalty of and discipline among	 themembers of the police forces of the State or (iv)	 themaintenance  of	 supplies  and	services  essential  to	 thecommunity.   There is also a provision in cl. (b) of  sub-s.(1) relating to a foreigner to which it is not necessary forthe  present  purposes to refer.  As soon as an	 order.	 is.made  under  s. 3, the provisions of S. 8  come	 into  play.Section	 8 on a true construction of which our	decision  ofthese petitions will depend runs as follows568.   (1)  When	a  person  is detained	in  pnrsuance  of  adetention  order, the authority making the order  shall,  assoon as may be, communicate to him the grounds on which	 theorder  has  been  made, and shall afford  him  the  earliestopportunity of making a representation against the order  tothe Government:Provided  that	nothing contained in this  subsection  shallapply  to  the case of any person detained with	 a  view  topreventing him from acting in any manner prejudicial to	 thesecurity  of the State if the Government by order issued  inthis  behalf  declares that it would be against	 the  publicinterest  to  communicate to him the grounds  on  which	 thedetention order has been made.(2)  Nothing  in sub-s. (1) shall require the  authority  todisclose  facts which it considers to be against the  publicinterest to disclose.Sub-section  (1) without the proviso is only a	reproductionin substance of the provisions of cl. (5) of Art. 22 of	 theConstitution.Sub-section  (1)  imposes  on  the  Government	two  duties,namely,	 (1)  the duty of communicating to the	detenue	 thegrounds	 on which the order has been made and (ii) the	dutyof   affording	him  the  earliest  opportunity	 of   makingrepresentation	against	 the order to the  Government.	 Thefirst  duty is to be performed " as soon as may be'.   Quiteclearly the period of time predicated by the phrase 'as soonas  may	 be' begins to run from the time  the  detention  inpursuance  of the detention order begins.  The question	 is-what is the span of time, which is designated by the words "as  soon  as may be'?  The observations of  Dysant,  J.,  inKing's	Old  Country, Ltd. v. Liquid Carbonic  Can.  Corpn.,Ltd.  (1),  quoted  in	Stroud's  Judicial  Dictionary,	 3rdedition,  vol. 1 page 200, are apposite.  Said	the  learnedJudge, " to do a thing I as soon as possible means to do  itwithin	a  reasonable time, with an understanding to  do  itwithin the shortest possible time." Likewise to	 communicatethe grounds 'as soon as may be' may well be said to mean  todo so(1)  (1942) 2 W.W.R. 603, 60657within	a  reasonable time with an understanding  to  do  itwithin the shortest possible time.  What, however, is to  beregarded as a reasonable time or the shortest possible time?The words 'as soon as may be' came for consideration  beforethis  Court in Ujagar Singh v. The State of the Punjab	(1).At  pages  761-762 this Court observed that  the  expressionmeant with a " reasonable despatch " and then went on to saythat  "what was reasonable must depend on the facts of	eachcase  and  no arbitrary time limit could be  set  down."  InKeshav	Nilakanth  Joglekar v. The  Commissioner  of  PoliceGreater	 Bombay	 and  2 Other8 (2) the word  "	forthwith  "occurring in s. 3(3) of the Indian Preventive Detention	 Act(IV  of	 1950) came up for consideration.   After  observingthat the word "forthwith " occurring in s. 3(3) of that	 Actdid not mean the same thing as "as soon as may be " used  ins. 7 of the same Act and that the former was more peremptorythan the latter, this Court observed that the time that	 wasallowed	 to the authority to communicate the grounds to	 thedetenue and was predicated by the expression 'as soon as maybe'  was  what was "reasonably	convenient"  or	 "reasonablyrequisite."  Whenever the question of reasonableness  arisesin  computing the period of time the Court has	perforce  tohave  regard to the particular circumstances of the case  inwhich  the  question  arises for decision.  It	may  not  bepossible in many cases to affirmatively say or to  preciselyquantify the period of time by reference to hours, days,  ormonths;	 nevertheless, it is possible having regard  to	 thecircumstances of the case, to say whether the thing done wasor  was	 not done 'as soon as may be i.e., within  the	timewhich was reasonably convenient or requisite.  It cannot  bedisputed and indeed it has not been disputed by the  learnedAttorney-General that sub-s. (1) does prescribe a period  oftime  within which the communication is to be made and	thistime  begins  to run from the date the detention  under	 theorder takes effect.(1)  [1952] S.C.R. 756.(2)  Supreme  Court  Petition No. 102 of  1956,	 decided  onSeptember 17,1956.858The proviso to sub-s. (1), however, makes the entire  sub-s.(1) inapplicable in certain circumstances, namely, (1) wherea  person  is detained with a view to  preventing  him	fromacting	in  any manner prejudicial to the  security  of	 theState and (ii) the Government by order issued in that behalfdeclares  that	it would be against the public	interest  tocommunicate to him the grounds on which the detention  orderhas  been made.	 The learned Attorney-General contends	thatthe proviso in terms does not specify any time within  whichthis power is to be exercised by the Government, that is  tosay,  it  does	not  specify  any  time	 within	 which	 theGovernment  must make the declaration and he  contends	thatthere  is  no reason to import the time limit laid  down  insub-s.	(1) into the proviso.  So also it has been  held  bythe  Full Bench of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court  in	 thecase referred to above.	 Learned Attorney-General urges thatthis  omission to specify the period of time in the  provisowas  deliberate and is in consonance with the scheme of	 theAct.  He starts with the contention that the object of	com-muilicating  the  grounds  is  to  afford  the	detenue	  anopportunity  to	 make  a representation	 to  the  Governmentagainst	 the order.  He then refers to s. 10  which  directsthat  the Government shall within 6 weeks from the  date  ofdetention  under  the order place before an  Advisory  Boardconstituted  by it under section 9 the grounds on which	 theorder has been made and the representation, if any, made  bythe  detenue and in a case where the order has been made  byan officer, also the report made by the officer under sub-s.(3) of s. 3. He next points out that this requirement of  s.10  is $'subject to the provisions of s. 14." Then he  takesus  to	s. 14 of the Act.  That section provides  that	not-withstanding  anything	contained  in this  Act	 any  persondetained under a detention order made in any of the  classesof  cases or in any of the circumstances  therein  mentionedmay be detained or continued in detention without  obtainingthe opinion of the Advisory Board for a period longer than 3months	but  not  exceeding  five years	 from  the  date  ofdetention.   The two classes of persons who may be  detainedwithout59obtaining the opinion of the Advisory Board comprise personswho  have been detained with a view to preventing them	fromacting in any manner prejudicial to (1) the security of	 theState and (ii) the maizitenance of public order.  The  casesof  persons falling under these,, two classes are by  sub-s.(2) of s. 14 to be reviewed within a period of 6 months fromthe  date of detention and thereafter at intervals of  everymonths	if the detention continues, in consultation  with  aperson possessing certain qualification who may be nominatedin  that behalf by the Government.  Going back then  to	 theproviso sub-s. (1) of s. (8) the Attorney-General points outthat the declaration contemplated by the proviso can only bemade  in  the  case  of a person detained  with	 a  view  topreventing him from acting in any manner prejudicial to	 thesecurity of the State.	By virtue of s. 14 the case of	sucha person will not go to the Advisory Board, but will have tobe reviewed in consultation with the person nominated by theGovernment under s. 14.	 Therefore, it will be enough if thegrounds	 are communicated to such a detenue within 6  monthsfrom  the date of detention when his case will	be  reviewedunder  sub-s.  (2) of s. 14.  We are unable to	accept	thisline of reasoning as sound.In the first place it is a fundamental rule of	constructionthat  a	 proviso  must be considered with  relation  to	 theprincipal   matter  to	which  it  stands  as	a   proviso.Therefore,  the	 proviso  in question has  to  be  construedharmoniously  with the provisions of sub-s. (1) to which  itis  a  proviso.	 As we have already  mentioned,	 immediatelyafter the making of the order, sub-s. (1) of s. 8 begins  tooperate.  If the grounds are not communicated to the detenuewithin	the period of time described by the  expression	 'assoon  as  may  be'  the	 detenue  becomes  deprived  of	 hisstatutory  right under sub-s. (1) and his detention in	suchcircumstances  becomes	illegal as being otherwise  than  inaccordance  with procedure prescribed by law.  In  order  toprevent	 this result in certain specified cases the  provisoauthorises the Government to issue the requisite declarationso as to exclude entirely the operation of sub-s. (1).	 It,therefore, stands to reason and is consistent with60the  principle of harmonious construction of  statutes	thatthe  power  of issuing a declaration so as  to	prevent	 theunwanted  result  of the operation of sub-s. (1)  should  beexercised before that very result sets in.In  the second place it will be recalled that the  order  ofdetention may be made under s. 3(1)(a) of the Act against  aperson	with  a view to preventing him from  acting  in	 anymanner	prejudicial to the four objects enumerated  therein.As  soon as an order of detention is made under s.  3(1)(a),the  authority making the order is by s. 8(1)  placed  underthe  obligation to communicate the grounds of the  detention'as  soon  as may be.' If no declaration is made  under	 theproviso,  s. 8(1) will operate in the case of every  detenueto  whichever  of the four categories he  may  belong.	 Theproviso enables the Government to prevent the application ofsub-s.	(1) to certain class of detenues only.	 It  followsthat  the detenues who do not fall within that	clause	musthave the grounds communicated to them and there is no  powergiven  to the Government to exclude the operation of  sub-s.(1)  from  those  cases.  It will be noted  that  under	 theproviso the Government may exclude the application of sub-s.(1), only in the case of a person who has been detained witha   view  to  prevent  him  from  indulging  in	  activitiesprejudicial  to	 the security of the State and only  if	 theGovernment  declares  that  it will be	against	 the  publicinterest  to  communicate  the grounds to him.	 Even  if  aperson has been detained on account of his activities  beingprejudicial  to	 the security of the  State  the  Governmentcannot	exclude	 the operation of sub-s. (1) from  his	caseunless	the Government is prepared to declare  and  declaresthat it would be against the public interest to	 communicateto  him	 the grounds on which the detention order  has	beenmade.	Therefore, those persons who have been	detained  onaccount	 of  their  activities	being  prejudicial  to	 thesecurity  of  the  State,  but	with  regard  to  whom	 theGovernment  cannot or does not think fit to declare that  itwould be against the public interest to communicate to	themthe grounds, will continue to be governed 'by sub-s. (1) andsuch persons, like the persons belonging to the other three61categories,  will  be  entitled to  have  the  grounds	com-municated to them 'as soon as may be.' As such persons	willbe governed by sub-s. (1), it becomes clearly incumbent uponthe Government to decide within the time envisaged by sub-s.(1)  whether  it should make, the requisite  declaration  ornot,   for   otherwise	such  persons  will   be   seriouslyprejudiced.    Suppose	the  Government	 does  not  make   adeclaration with regard to persons falling within that classwithin that time but subsequently decides that it would	 notbe  against the public interest to communicate to  them	 thegrounds,  then the absence of such a declaration  under	 theproviso will brings about the unfortunate result that  thosepersons	 will be deprived of their valuable right of  havingthe grounds communicated to them 'as soon as may be' and  tohave  the earliest opportunity afforded to them of making  arepresentation.	  In  the  context of  the  liberty  of	 thesubject	 we must adopt a construction which would  have	 theeffect of preventing such' an undesirable result.Further	 under section 14 the person falling under  the	 twocategories mentioned therein "may" be detained or  continuedin  detention without obtaining the' opinion of an  AdvisoryBoard  for a period longer than 3 months.  There is  nothingto suggest that the cases of all persons falling within	 thetwo  categories	 must  necessarily not be  referred  to	 theAdvisory  Board,  but  must be reviewed	 under	sub-s.	(2).Persons	 against  whom orders of detention are made  with  aview   to  preventing  them  from  acting  in	any   mannerprejudicial to the security of the State and with respect towhom'  the  Government does not consider that it  would	 be'against	 the  public  interest to communicate  to  them	 thegrounds,  will be entitled, under sub-s. (1), to have  theirgrounds 'as soon as may be' and there is nothing to  preventthe  Government from sending their cases together  with	 thegrounds	 and their representations, if any, to	the  AdvisorBoard  under s. 10 of the Act.' Therefore, with	 respect  tosuch  persons the grounds' must be supplied 'as soon as	 maybe'  under sub-s. (1)' and cannot be postponed for 6  monthsreferred to in section 14.62Finally the review contemplated by sub-s. (2) of s. 14 is tobe  made  "within"  a period of 6 months from  the  date  ofdetention.   There is no reason to hold that in	 every	casesuch a review will be held on the last day of that period of6  months.   With  regard to a	person	falling	 within	 thecategory of persons whose activities are prejudicial to	 thesecurity  of  the  State  but  with  respect  to  whom	 theGovernment does not think fit to make any declaration  underthe  proviso,  he  would be entitled  to  have	the  groundscommunicated  to  him  'as  soon  as  may  be'	and  he	 mayimmediately  make such cogent and convincing  representationto  the Government as may induce the Government	 to  releasehim  forthwith	without waiting for the last day  of  the  6months.For reasons stated above we see no difficulty in  construingthe  proviso  as  implying  that the  time  for	 making	 thedeclaration  should be co-terminous with the time fixed	 forcommunicating  the  grounds  under  sub-s.  (1).   When	 thedetaining  authority  makes  the  order	 of  detention,	  itspecifies  in the preamble to the order why IV-he  order  ismade,  namely, whether it is made with a view to  preventingthe detenue from acting in any manner prejudicial to one  orother of the four objects enumerated in s. 3(1)(a).  If	 theGovernment  can makeup its mind that the detention order  ismade   against	a  particular  person  on  account  of	 hisactivities  being Prejudicial to the security of the  State,there is no reason why the Government should not at the sametime  or 'as soon as may be' thereafter make up its mind  asto whether or not it would be against the public interest tocommunicate  to	 such  person  the  grounds  on	 which	 thedetention  order  is  made.  In our  )pinion  the  authorityvested in the Government to make a declaration	contemplatedby  the proviso must be exercised before the expiry  of	 thespan  of time Predicated by the expression 'as soon  as	 maybe' occuring in sub-s. (1).  Such a construction will ensureHarmonious operation of ss. 8, 10 and 14.  These aspects  ofthe  matter do not appear to have been pointedly  bought  tothe  notice of the Full Bench of the Jammu and Kashmir	HighCourt and in our opinion that decision cannot be accepted ascorrect.63There  is nothing in the affidavits filed by the  respondentshowing that there was any particular circumstance or reasonfor which the declarations could riot have been made earlierthan  June  30,	 1956, when they were  actually	 made.	 Forreasons stated above the detention of the petitioners becameillegal	 and they may well complain of having been  deprivedof their liberty otherwise than in accordance with procedureestablished by the Act, which embodies the fundamental rightguaranteed  under  Art. 22(5) of the Constitution.   In	 thepremises  the  petitioners are entitled to the	relief	theypray  for.   We	 accordingly allow both	 the  petitions	 anddirect the petitioners to be released forthwith.Applications allowed.