PETITIONER:THE PARBHANI TRANSPORT CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETY LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE REGIONAL TRANSPORT AUTHORITY,AURANGABAD AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:07/03/1960BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)IMAM, SYED JAFFERWANCHOO, K.N.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR  801		  1960 SCR  (3) 177 CITATOR INFO : R	    1962 SC1621	 (17,38,90) D	    1963 SC1047	 (26) MV	    1966 SC1089	 (54) R	    1967 SC   1	 (48,80) RF	    1967 SC1815	 (16) F	    1977 SC 842	 (17,19) RF	    1981 SC 660	 (7) RF	    1981 SC2198	 (21)ACT:Motor Vehicles-Grant of stage carriage Permit to  Governmentunder  Ch.  IV-Constitutional validity--Motor Vehicles	Act,1939  (4 Of 1939), as amended by Act 100 of 1956,  ch.	 IV.ss. 42, 47, ch, IV A, s. 68F(1)-Constitution of India, Arts.19(1)(g), 14.HEADNOTE:The petitioner, a registered co-operative society,  carryingon  the business of plying motor buses as  stage  carriages,had  permits for four routes which were due to expire.	 TheState applied for permits for all these routes under Ch.  IVof  the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, as amended by Act  100  of956,  and  the	petitioner applied for renewal	of  its	 ownpermits.   The	Regional Transport  Authority  rejected	 thepetitioner's  applications and granted those of	 the  State.The petitioner's appeal to the State Transport Authority wasrejected.  But the High Court quashed the said orders  underArt. 226 and directed a(1) [1954] 26 I.T.R. 351.   (2) [1955] 28 I.T.R. 914.(3) [1957] 31 I.T.R.250.23178reconsideration of the matter.	The State published a schemeunder  s.  68C, Ch.  IVA, of the Act.  The  scheme  was	 nothowever	  finalised.   Thereafter  the	Regional   TransportAuthority,  purporting to reconsider the matter as  directedby  the High Court, rejected the  petitioner's	applicationsfor renewal and granted those of the State for permits.	  Itwas  contended on behalf of the petitioner that in  view  ofCh.   IVA  of the Act, the State had no right to  apply	 forpermits	 except	 thereunder  and the  grant  of	 permits  onapplications made under Ch.  IV was, therefore, illegal	 andinfringed  the petitioner's fundamental rights	under  Arts.19(1)(g) of the Constitution.  It was further contended thatthe order violated Art. 14 as well.Held,  that both the contentions were without substance	 andmust fail.The Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, as amended by Act 100 of 1956,lays  down  two independent sets of provisions	relating  torunning	 of buses by the Government, one tinder Ch.  IV	 andthe  other  Ch.	 IVA of the Act.  The latter chapter  by  s.68F(1) confers a special advantage on the Government when itproceeds under that chapter and entitles it to the necessarypermits	 as  a matter of right.	 Under Ch.  IV of  the	Act,however, the Government cannot claim any such advantage.  Ithas to compete with other applicants.  The powers  conferredby  the	 two chapters being thus not one but  two  differentpowers,	 the principle enunciated in Nazir Ahmad's case	 hasno  application.   Since, therefore, the  Government  had  adistinct  right	 to apply for permits under Ch.	 IV  of	 theAct,  no question of applying for permits without the  rightto do so and thereby infringing the petitioner's fundamentalright under Art. 19(1)(g) could arise.Nazir  Ahmad v. King Emperor, (1936) L.R. 63 I.A. 372,	heldinapplicable.Taylor v. Taylor, (1876) 1 Ch.	D. 426, distinguished.Nor could the maxim expressio unius est exclusio alter us beof  any help to the petitioner.	 That maxim has its  utilityin ascertaining the intention of the legislature.  Since  S.42(3)(a) of the Motor Vehicles Act leaves no manner of doubtas  to	that  intention by its	clear  indication  that	 theGovernment  cannot  run	 buses as  a  commercial  enterprisewithout	 first obtaining permitsunder S. 42(1) Of  the	Act,that  maxim  cannot  operate so as to  imply  a	 prohibitionagainst applying under Ch.  IV of the Act.There was therefore, no reason for holding that Ch.  IVA  ofthe Act contained the only provision under which the Govern-ment could be allowed to ply stage carriages.Viscountess  Rhondda's claim, (1922) 2 A.C. 339 and  Motilalv.  Government of Uttar Pyadesh, (1955) 1 I.L.R.  All.	269,considered.It was not correct to say that the State was not intended tocompete with private citizens in obtaining permits under Ch.IV  of the Act.	 Section 47 of the Act lends no	 support  tosuch  a	 proposition  and Art.	19(6)  of  the	Constitutionindicates   that   the	Government  can	 enter	 into	suchcompetition  without  infringing  any  of  the	 fundamentalrights.179The Regional Transport Authority in granting permits acts ina  quasi-judicial capacity.  If its decision was in any	 wayerroneous  having regard to the proviso to s. 47(1)  of	 theAct, that could not amount to a violation of Art. 14 of	 theConstitution.	The  petitioner had other remedies  open  tohim.  Nor could Ch.  IV of the Act be said, in view of	Art.19(6)  of  the	Constitution,  to  offend  that	 Article  bypermitting open competition between the State and a  privatecitizen.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 110 of 1959.Writ Petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of  Indiafor enforcement of Fundamental rights.B.R. L. Iyengar and Shankar Anand, for the petitioners.M.   C.	 Setalvad,  Attorney General for  India,  B.  Sen,R.Gopalakrishnan	R.  H.	Dhebar	and  T.	 M.  Sen,  for	 therespondents.1960.  March, 7. The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySARKAR,	 J.-The	 petitioner is a co-operative  society	dulyregistered  and it carries on the business of  plying  motorbuses as stage carriages on the public highways in the Stateof  Bombay.  Its case in this petition is that it  has	beendeprived of its right to carry on this business and has alsobeen subjected to discriminatory treatment in the matter  ofthe grant of permits to run its buses.	It complains of	 theinfringement of its fundamental rights under arts.  19(1)(g)and 14 of the Constitution.The  questions	raised in this matter turn on  some  of	 theprovisions  of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, as	 amended  byAct  100  of  1956.  These provisions have  to	be  examinedbefore	proceeding to discuss the questions that arise.	  Weare  concerned	only with Chapters IV and IVA  of  the	Act.Chapter IV comprises ss. 42 to 68 and Chapter IVA, which wasin its entirety introduced by the amending Act, consists ofss. 68A to 681.Taking Chapter IV first, we find that s. 42(1) provides thatno owner of a transport vehicle shall use or permit the	 useof  the vehicle in any public place save in accordance	withthe  conditions	 of  a permit granted under the	 Act.	A  "transport  vehicle  "  is defined in s. 2(33)  as  a  publicservice vehicle or a goods vehicle.  Clause (a) of  sub-sec.(3) of s. 42 as it originally stood180provided that sub-sec. (1) of that section would not   applyto  any	 transport  vehicle owned by or	 on  behalf  of	 theCentral	 Government  or	 a State  Government  other  than  avehicle	 used in connection with the business of a  railway.So under it the Government could ply stage carriages on. thepublic highways without having to obtain permits in  respectof them.  The amending Act of 1956 substituted a, new clause(a)  in	 s.  42(3)  for the old clause.	  The  new  cl.	 (a)provides that sub-sec. (1) shall not apply to any  transportvehicle	  owned	 by  the  Central  Government  or  a   StateGovernment and used for Government purposes unconnected withany commercial enterprise.  Since the amendment,  therefore,the  Government	 cannot run stage carriages  on	 the  publichighways without a permit, just as a private owner of  stagecarriages  cannot do, because such use of the vehicles	willnot   be  for  a  purpose  unconnected	with  a	  commercialenterprise.   Section  44 authorises a State  Government  toconstitute  a State Transport Authority and Regional  Trans-port Authorities for different areas in that State to  carryout  the duties specified.  Section 45 provides	 that  everyapplication  for  a  permit shall be made  to  the  RegionalTransport Authority of the region in which it is proposed touse the vehicle.  Section 47 specifies the matters to  whicha   Regional  Transport	 Authority  shall  have	 regard	  inconsidering an application for the grant of a permit.We  now	 come to Chapter IVA.  Section 68A(b)  defines	a  "State transport undertaking " for the purpose of the Chapterto  mean  an undertaking providing road	 transport  service,carried	 on, among others, by a State  Government.   Section68B  provides that the provisions of Chapter IVA shall	haveeffect notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained inChapter IV.  Section 68C is in these terms:68C.   Where any State transport undertaking is	 of  opinionthat  for the purpose of providing an  efficient,  adequate,economical and properly coordinated road transport  service,it  is necessary in the public interest that road  transportservices in general or any particular class of such service,in relation to any area or route or portion thereof181should	 be  run  and  operated	 by  the   State   transportundertaking, whether to the exclusion, complete or  partial,of   other  persons  or	 otherwise,  the  State'   transportundertaking  may prepare a scheme giving particulars of	 thenature of the services proposed to be rendered, the area  orroute  proposed	 to be covered and  such  other	 particularsrespecting  thereto  as may be prescribed, and	shall  causeevery  such scheme to be published in the  Official  Gazetteand  also in such other manner as the State  Government	 Maydirect.Section 68D provides for the preferring of objections to thescheme	published  under  s.  68C,  consideration  of	suchobjections  and	 final approval of the scheme by  the  StateGovernment.  The terms of s. 68F(1) are as follows :-S.68F. (1) Where, in pursuance of an approved scheme, anyState transport undertaking applies in the manner  specifiedin  Chapter  IV	 for a stage carriage  permit  or  a  publiccarrier's permit or a contract carriage permit in respect ofa  notified area or notified route, the	 Regional  TransportAuthority  shall  issue such permit to the  State  transportunder.	taking,	 notwithstanding anything  to  the  contrarycontained in Chapter IV.The  respondents  to  this petition  are  (1)  The  RegionalTransport  Authority,  Aurangabad, (2) The  State  TransportAuthority,  Bombay, (3) The Divisional Controller  of  StateTransport,   Marathwada	 and  (4)  The	State.	of   Bombay.Aurangabad and Maratliwada are both in the State of  Bombay.The first and second respondents are the authorities set  upunder  s. 44 of the Act by the Government of Bombay.  It  isthe  duty of the first respondent to  consider	applicationsfor and to grant, permits for stage carriages to be plied inAurangabad  region and the second respondent  hears  appealsfrom  the  decisions  of the first  respondent.	  The  thirdrespondent is the head of a department of the Government  ofthe  State  of Bombay and is in charge of  public  transportwork in Marathwada.It  appears that the petitioner had permits to run buses  onfour routes in Aurangabad and that these182permits	 were due to expire on October 1, 1958.	  The  thirdrespondent who really represents the Government of the Stateof  Bombay  and who may be conveniently referred to  as	 theState  of Bombay, had permits for two of these	routes.	  OnMay  19, 1958, the State of Bombay applied for	permits	 forall  these four routes under Chapter IV of the Act.  On	 May27, 1958, the petitioner applied for renewal of its existingpermits.   The first respondent rejected the application  ofthe  petitioner	 and granted those of the State	 of  Bombay.The  petitioner	 appealed to the second respondent  but	 itsappeal	was  rejected.	In the meantime on some	 date  whichdoes  not  appear  on the record, the  petitioner  had	beengranted	 temporary permits up to December 31, 1958.  On	 theexpire	of its temporary permits on December 31,  1958,	 thepetitioner  would have been unable to run any of  its  busesand  it therefore moved the High Court at Bombay under	art.226  of	 the  Constitution and the High	 Court	quashed	 theorders	of  respondents	 Nos.  1  and  2  and  directed	 theapplications  of the petitioner and the State of Bombay	 forthe  permits to be reconsidered.  With the reasons  of	thisorder  of the High Court we are not  concerned.	  RespondentNo.  1, however, without reconsidering the  applications  asdirected by the High Court, granted temporary permits to theState of Bombay.  The petitioner again moved the High  Courtwhich  thereupon  quashed  the order  of  respondent  No.  1granting   temporary  permits  to  the	State	of   Bombay.Thereafter, on March 20, 1959, the respondent No. 1  grantedtemporary  permits  to	the  petitioner	 which	were   laterextended  to July 20, 1959.  On June 1, 1959, the  State  ofBombay	publish'ed a scheme under s. 68C in Chapter  IVA  ofthe  Act.  Various objections were filed against the  schemeand  nothing further appears to have been done to  make	 thescheme final.  On July 18, 1959, respondent No. 1 purportingto carry out the directions of the High Court,	reconsideredthe   petitioner's   applications  for	 renewal   and	 theapplications of the State of Bombay for permits and rejectedthe  petitioner's applications while allowing those  of	 theState  of  Bombay.   On July,  20,  1959,  the	petitioner'stemporary permits183having	expired, it ceased to operate its buses.  On  August27, 1959, the petitioner filed the present petition in	thisCourt  under  art. 32 of the Constitution  for'	 appropriatewrits quashing the order of respondent No. 1 dated July	 18,1959,  restraining  the State of Bombay	 from  applying	 forpermits	 save  under  the  provisions  of  Chapter  IVA	 andrespondent  No. 1 from entertaining any application  by	 theState  of Bombay under Chapter IV and  directing  respondentNo.  1	to hear the petitioner's  applications	for  permitsaccording  to  law.  Various grounds have been	advanced  insupport of the petition and these will now be discussed.The  petitioner first contends that in view of chapter	IV-Athe State of Bombay bad no right to apply for permits  underChapter	 IV  of the Act as it had done.	 It  says  that	 theorder of the first respondent granting permits to the  Stateof  Bombay  Under  chapter  IV	was  therefore	illegal	 andaffected its fundamental rights under art. 19(1) (g).The  first question then is whether the State of Bombay	 wasentitled  to  apply  for  permits  under  Chapter  IV.	 Thepetitioner says that special provisions having been made  inChapter	 IVA to enable the Government to run its  buses	 theGovernment's  right  to run buses was  restricted  to  thoseprovisions and the Government was not entitled to  resort tothe  other provisions of the Act.  In support of  this	con-tention	 reference  was made to the case of Nazir  Ahmad  v.King Emperor(1) where it was observed that "where a power isgiven to do a certain thing in a certain way the thing	mustbe  done in that way or not at all." But this principle	 canapply  only where one power is given and has no	 applicationwhere  more  powers than one are conferred.   If  a  statutecontains,  provisions giving more than one power,  then	 therule  cannot  be  applied  so as to  take  away	 the  powersconferred by anyone of these provisions.  As pointed out  inTaylor	v. Taylor(2 ) referred to by the judicial  Committeein  Nazir  Ahmad's  case  (1) "When  a	statutory  power  isconferred  for the first time upon a Court, and the mode  ofexercising it is pointed out, it means that no other mode isto be adopted."1. (1936) L.R. 63 I.A 372. 381.(2) ((1876) 1 Ch.  D 426, 431.184Now  the position here is different.  The Government has  ofcourse	the power to do any business it likes and  thereforethe  business of running stage carriages.  We  have  earlierdrawn attention to the change made in cl, (a) of s. 42(3) bythe amendment of 1956.	Previously, it was not necessary forthe  Government to obtain permits under s. 42(1)  for  busesthat  it  intended  to run as stage  carriages.	  Since	 theamendment  the	Government  can	 no  longer  run   transportvehicles  for commercial purposes without obtaining  permitsunders.42(1). Now the plying of buses as stage carriages  isa commercial enterprise and for such buses, therefore, underthe  sections  as they stand, the Government  would  requirepermits	 as  any  one else.  That  being  so,  the  sectionsclearly	 contemplate that the Government may apply  for	 andobtain	permits for its buses run as stage  carriages.	 Therule  applied in Nazir Ahmad's case (1) does not permit	 theordinary meaning of s. 42, sub-s. (1) and sub-s. (3), cl.  (a) to be cut down because of the provisions of Chapter	IVA.The  Act  lays down two independent sets  of  provisions  inregard to the running of buses by the Government, one, underChapter IV and the other under Chapter IVA.  Chapter IVA wasintended to give the Government, a special advantage.	Whenthe  Government	 chooses to proceed under that	chapter,  itbecomes	 entitled as a matter of right under s. 68F  (1)  tothe necessary permits.	Under Chapter IV the Government doesnot  have any such advantage; it has to compete	 with  otherapplicants, to secure permits to be able, to run its  buses.The  powers under the two Chapters are therefore  differenceTo  such  a  case the principle of Nazir  Ahmad's  case	 (1)cannot be applied.The learned counsel for the petitioner also referred to	 themaxim  expression units est exclusio alterius and  contendedthat  since  the  Act  by  Chapter  IVA	 provided  that	 theGovernment would be entitled to run buses under a scheme  itimpliedly prohibited the running of buses by the  Governmentotherwise.   It does not seem to us that this maxim  carriesthe matter further.  It is a maxim for ascertaining the(1)  [1936] L.R. 63 I.A. 372, 381185intention of the legislature.  Where the statutory  languageis  plain  and	the meaning clear, there  is  no  scope	 forapplying  the rule.  Section 42(3) (a) appears to us  to  beperfectly  plain  in its terms.	 It  contemplates  that	 theGovernment  has to apply for permits under s. 42(1)  to	 runbuses as a commercial enterprise.  That being so, the  maximcannot,	 be resorted to for/ ascertaining the  intention  ofthe  legislature  and  implying a  prohibition	against	 theGovernment applying for permits under Chapter IV.The  learned counsel then referred to the case of  ViscountsRhondda's  claim (1), where it was observed at p.  365	that"The  words  of	 the statute are to be construed  so  as  toascertain  the mind of the Legislature from the natural	 andgrammatical  meaning of the words which it has used, and  inso  construing	them  the existing state of  the  law,	the,mischiefs to be remedied, and the defects to be amended, maylegitimately  be looked at together with the general  schemeof the Act." His point is that Chapter IVA was introduced bythe amendment of 1956 to meet the observations made in	MotiLal v. Government of Uttar Pradesh (2 ) and some other casesthat s. 42(3)(a) was discriminatory in that it exempted	 theGovernment  from the requirement of a permit and  was  hencevoid  as offending art. 14 of the Constitution.	 It is	saidthat Chapter IVA must, therefore, be construed as containingthe  only provisions enabling the Government to run a  stagecarriage.   It is difficult to appreciate  this	 contention.The observations in the cases referred to, had been made  inregard	to  cl.	 (a)  of s. 42(3) as  it  stood	 before	 itsamendment in 1956.  That section has been amended and as  itnow  stands it is not discriminatory.  The evil pointed	 outno more exists and no question of reading the Act keeping inview  that evil of discrimination, arises.  We find  nothingin Moti Lal's case (2) or any other case which points to  anevil nor has the learned counsel drawn our attention to any,which  the Act can be said to have intended to remedy.	 We,therefore, find no justification for reading Chapter IVA  ascontaining(1) (1922) 2 A.C. 339.	     (2) (1951) 1 I.L.R. AU. 269.24186the only provisions under which the Government can ply stagecarriages.It is next said s. 42 contemplates the owner of a  transportvehicle	  obtaining   a	 permit	 and  a	  "State   transportundertaking"  cannot apply for a permit under Chapter IV  asit cannot be such,owner.  But here we are not concerned witha State transport undertaking for that comes into  existencefor  the  purposes of Chapter IVA and that Chapter  has	 notbeen resorted to by the Government yet.	 Here the Governmentapplied	 for the permits under Chapter IV.   The  Governmentcan  of course be the owner of transport vehicles.  We	haveearlier	 said  that  in	 view of cl. (a)  of  s.  42(3)	 theGovernment  has to apply for permits under s. 42(1)  as	 anyother owner.  Therefore the Act contemplates the  Governmentas  owner  of transport vehicles.  Further, under s.  68A  a"State transport undertaking " has been defined as an under-taking	providing  road transport service carried  on  by  astate	Government.   Such  an	undertaking  is	  really   adepartment  of	a  Government and in order to  be  able	 ,toprovide transport service, it must be able to own  transportvehicles.   In fact s. 68F(1) requires the  State  transportundertaking  to	 apply	for permits  under  Chapter  IV	 andtherefore contemplates it as an owner of a transport vehiclefor  the  purposes  of	s. 42 which  is	 contained  in	thatChapter.The learned counsel then referred to the concluding  portionof  s.	47(1)  which makes it  incumbent  on  the  authorityconsidering   applications   for  permits   to	 take	intoconsideration  the  representations  made  by  the   personstherein mentioned.  He said that the persons there mentioneddid  not include the Government and therefore the  intentionis  clear  that applications for permits by  the  Governmentwere  not  intended  to be considered under  s.	 47  and  ifGovernment  could  not come under s 47, it  could  not	comeunder Chapter IV at all.  But assume that representations bythe Government are not contemplated by s. 47.  That does notshow  that  applications for permits by the  Government	 arealso not contemplated by that section.It  is	also said that the matters to  which  the  authoritygranting the permits is required to have regard in187considering  applications for permits under s. 47  are	suchthat if the State enters into competition with citizens	 forthe  grant of permits the State must necessarily  get  them.Therefore,  it is said that it could not have been  intendedthat the State would compete with the citizens in the matterof  obtaining  permits under Chapter IV.  We are  unable  toassent to this contention.  There is nothing in s. 47  whichleads to the conclusion that whenever the Government appliesalong with private citizens for permits, the Government mustget  them.  Indeed, if that were so, then it would not	havebeen  necessary	 to  provide by s. 68F	(1)  that  when	 theGovernment,  that  is,	its  State  transport	undertaking,applied in pursuance of an approved scheme for a permit, theauthority  concerned  would be bound to grant  such  permit.Section	 68F  (1)  clearly  contemplates  that	without	 theprovision  made therein it may so happen that the  authorityacting under s. 47 may think it fit to grant the permit to aprivate	 operator in preference to the Government.  It	alsoseems to us that there is nothing in our law to prevent	 theGovernment  from  entering a business  in  competition	withprivate	 citizens.   Indeed, Art. 19(6)	 by  providing	thatnothing in art. 19(1)(g) shall affect the application of anyexisting  law  in so far as it relates to,  or	prevent	 theState from making any law relating to the carrying on by theState of any trade, business, industry or service whether tothe   exclusion,  complete  or	partial,  of   citizens	  orotherwise,  would seem to indicate that the State may  carryon  any business either as a monopoly, complete or  partial,or  in competition with any citizen and that would not	havethe  effect  of infringing any fundamental  rights  of	suchcitizen.Our  attention	was then drawn to the proviso  to  s.  47(1)under which other thing,; being equal a cooperative  societyis  entitled  to preference over individual  owners  in	 thematter of grants of permits.  It is said that the Governmentis  not	 an  individual	 owner	and  therefore	it  is	 notcontemplated  as an applicant for a permit under s. 47.	  Itseems  to  us that if the Government is	 not  an  individualowner-as to which we are not called upon to say	 anything-itdoes not188follow	that section does not contemplate the Government  asan applicant for permit.  If Government is not an individualowner:	then all that will happen in view of the proviso  tos.  47(1)  will be that a co-operative society will  not  beable to claim any preference over the Government.  All	thatthe  proviso  does  is	to give	 a  co-operative  society  apreference over individual owners.  It is not concerned withstating who can apply for permits.It  seems to us therefore that the  petitioner's  contentionthat the Government cannot apply for a permit under  ChapterIV  of	the  Act is unsustainable.   The  petitioner  cannotcomplain  of  the  Government  having  applied	under	thatChapter.  We are not called upon, therefore, to discuss	 thefurther	 question,  whether  any fundamental  right  of	 thepetitioner  under art. 19(1)(g) would have been affected  bythe Government having applied for and obtained permits underChapter IV without having the right to do so.  This disposesof the contentions concerning the infringement of the  peti-tioner's  fundamental  rights  under art.  19(1)(g)  of	 theConstitution.We  will now consider the question of the violation of	art.14 of the Constitution.	 The first contention in this regardwas  based on the proviso to s. 47(1).	It is said  that  inthe circumstances of this case, as a cooperative society thepetitioner  was entitled to preference over the	 Government,considered  as an individual owner, and had not	 been  giventhat  preference.   It is contended that  respondent  No.  1relying	 on various promises made by the State of Bombay  torepair	roads and to give other facilities to the  travelingpublic	had  held that the other conditions were  not  equalwhile under the proviso, it was entitled to rely only on theexisting  conditions.	It  is contended  that	thereby	 theprovisions  of Art. 14 had been infringed.  This  contentionis   in	 our  view  clearly  untenable.	  The  decision	  ofrespondent No. 1 may have been right or wrong and as to thatwe  say	 nothing,  but we are unable to	 see  that  decisionoffends	 Art.  14  or any other	 fundamental  right  of	 thepetitioner.   The  respondent No. 1 was acting	as  a  quasijudicial body and if it has made any mistake in its decisionthere are appropriate189remedies  available to the petitioner for obtaining  relief.It cannot complain of a breach of Art 14.The other contention of the petitioner is that if Chapter IVpermits	 the  State to compete with a  private	citizen,  itoffends Art. 14 because in view of the vast resources of theState	a  private  citizen  is	 bound	to  lose   in	suchcompetition.   This  point is  clearly	unfounded.   Article19(6)  as it now stands, contemplates such a competition  aswe  have  earlier pointed out.	The petitioner can  base  nogrievance on such competition.For these reasons we think that this petition must fail	 andhence it is dismissed with costs.Petition dismissed.