PETITIONER:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, BOMBAY V.	Vs.RESPONDENT:RANCHHODDAS KARSONDAS, BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:08/05/1959BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1154		  1960 SCR  (1) 114ACT:Income-tax-Return  showing  income  below  minimum  taxable-Whether a good	 return-Income-tax  Officer  ignoring	suchreturn and issuing  notice  to	assessee  to  file  return--Assessment made within one year of notice  but	beyond	fouryears of the end of  the assessment year--Validity of-IndianIncome-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922), SS. 22 and 34.HEADNOTE:A  public notice under S. 22(1) of the Income-tax Act,	1922was  published on May 1, 1045, requiring every person  whosetotal  income  exceeded	 the maximum amount  which  was	 notchargeable to income-tax to file returns for the  assessmentyear 1945-46.  On January 5, 1950, the assessee submitted  avoluntary  return  showing an income of Rs.  1,935  for	 theassessment  year 1945-46 and added a footnote to the  returnthat his wife had sold her old ornaments and deposited a sumof  Rs.	 59,026 with the Assar Syndicate in which he  was  apartner.   The Income-tax Officer, who had discovered  thesecredits while examining the accounts of the Assar Syndicate,ignored	 the  voluntary return, and, on February  27,  1950,issued	a notice under s. 34(1) of the Act calling upon	 theassessee  to  submit  his return.  On March  14,  1950,	 theassessee  submitted  an identical  return.   The  Income-taxOfficer	 made  the  assessment on  February  26,  1951,	 andincluded  the sum of Rs. 59,026 in the total income  of	 theassessee.   The assessee contended that the  assessment	 wasinvalid	 as it was completed more than four years after	 theend of the assessment year in violation Of s. 34(1)(b).	 Theappellant contended that the voluntary return was no  returnas it did not disclose any taxable income and the assessmentwas  valid under the proviso to s. 34(3) Of the Act,  havingbeen  made  within one year of the notice  issued  under  s.34(1).Held, that the assessment was invalid.	The voluntary returnfiled by the assessee, even though it did riot disclose	 anytaxable income, was a good return and could not be  ignored.As such no question arose under s. 34(1) of income  escapingassessment  and the Income-tax Officer was not justified  inissuing the notice under S. 34(1).  The proviso to S.  34(3)was  applicable only when there was a Proper  notice  issuedunder S. 34(1) and the appellant could not take advantage ofthe  time  allowed  by this  proviso.	The  assessment	 wasclearly made beyond four years of the end of the  assessmentyear 1945-46 and was time barred.Harakchand  Makanji  & Co. v.  Commissioner  of	 Income-tax,(1948) 16 I.T.R. 119 All India Groundnut Syndicate Ltd. v.115Commissioner  of Income-tax, (1953) 25 I.T.R. go and  P.  S.Rama  Iyer v. Commissioner of Income-tax, (1957)  33  I.T.R.458, approved.Commissioner  of  Agricultural	Income-tax  v.	Sultan	 AliGharami	  (1951)  20  I.T.R.  432;  B.	K.  Das	 &  Co.	  v.Commissioner  of  Income-tax,  (1956)  30  I.T.R.  439	 andCommissioner  of Income-tax v. Govindlal Dutta (1957)  33  1T.R. 630, disapproved.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 281 of 1955.Appeal from the judgment and order dated March 18, 1954,  ofthe  Bombay  High Court in Income-tax Reference	 No.  35  of1953.K.   N. Rajagopal Sastri and D. Gupta, for the appellant.R.   J. Kolah and Ram Ditta Mal, for the respondent.1959.  May 8. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byHIDAYATULLAH  J.-This  appeal on a  certificate	 of  fitnessgranted	 by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay has	beenfiled  by  the Commissioner of	Income-tax,  Bombay  againstRanchhoddas Karsondas of Bombay (hereinafter referred to, asthe assessee) under s.	 66A of the Indian Income-tax Act.The facts leading tip to this appeal are as follows For	 theassessment  year 1945-46, a public notice under s. 22(1)  ofthe Income-tax Act (hereinafter called the Act) was  issued,requiring  every  person  whose	 total	income	during	 theprevious  year	exceeded the maximum amount  which  was	 notchargeable to income-tax to furnish, within such period	 notbeing  less  than sixty days as might be  specified  in	 thenotice,	 a return of his income in the prescribed  form	 andverified   in  the  prescribed	manner.	  This	notice	 waspublished  on  or about May 1, 1945.  The assessee  did	 notmake a return of his income.  The Income-tax Officer,  whileexamining the books of account of a partnership called the "Assar Syndicate " of which the assessee was a partner, foundthat  in  the account year corresponding to  the  assessmentyear 1945-46, there were six cash credits aggregating to Rs.59,026 in the name of the assessee's wife.  Before, however,the Income-tax116Officer	 could take any action, the assessee submitted	a  "voluntary " return on January 5, 1950 of his income for	 theaccounting year 1944-45 (assessment year 1945-46) showing  atotal  net income of Rs. 1,935.	 He added a footnote to	 thereturn to the following effect:"  My wife has sold her old ornaments and deposited the	 sumof Rs. 59,026 in the firm of Assar Syndicate in which I am apartner."The  Income-tax Officer did not act on this return,  but  onFebruary 27, 1950 he issued a notice purporting to be  unders.  34	of the Act calling upon the assessee to	 submit	 hisreturn.	  This	notice was served on the assessee  on  March3,1950,	 and  in answer thereto, the  assessee	submitted  asimilar return on March 14, 1950 showing the same income andadding	the  same  footnote.  The  Income-tax  Officer	thenissued and served upon the assessee notices under ss.  22(4)and  23(2)  of the Act asking him to produce  his  books  ofaccount	 and  to tender any evidence he cared to  lead.	  Itappears	 from  the record that these notices  were  compliedwith,  but  on	February 26,  1951  the	 Income-tax  Officerincluded  the sum of Rs. 59,026 in the total income  of	 theassessee  and  assessed him on it for  the  assessment	year1945-46.The  assessee appealed, in turn, to the Appellate  AssistantCommissioner  and  the Income-tax Appellate  Tribunal.	 Hiscontentions were three, viz., that the amount of Rs.  59,026could  not and should not have been included in his  income,that  the  amended  S. 34 of the Act  had  no  retrospectiveeffect,	 and that the assessment completed on  February	 26,1951  was invalid, inasmuch as it was completed	 four  yearsafter.	the end of the relevant assessment year.   Both	 theAppellate  Assistant  Commissioner as well as  the  Tribunalrejected his contentions, but the Tribunal on being moved byhim, raised and referred two questions of law under s. 66(1)of the Act to the High Court of Judicature, Bombay, for	 itsdecision.  These questions were:" (1) Whether the notice issued under Section 34 of the	 Actby the Income-tax Officer on 27-2-1950,117after the assessee had filed a voluntary return was valid inlaw?(2)  Whether the assessment made on 26-2-1951 is valid inlaw?This reference	was  heard by the High Court  on  March	 18,1954,  and by a judgment delivered on the same day,  Chagla,C.J., and Tendolkar, J., answered' both the questions in thenegative.  Before the High Court, it was again contended  bythe  assessee that since he had submitted a return under  s.22(3) of the Act on January 5, 1950, the assessment, if any,had to be completed before March 31, 1950, as required by s.34(3)  of the Act.  He also contended that he  was  entitledunder s. 22(3) to make a " voluntary " return on the date hedid,  and  with	 a voluntary return  before  the  Income-taxOfficer,  there	 was no scope for the issuance of  a  noticeunder  s. 34.  The High Court upheld the contentions of	 theassessee, and gave its opinion that the Department ought  tohave  issued a notice under s. 22(2) within  the  assessmentyear, and if no return was made within the time fixed by thenotice, the Department should have proceeded under s.  23(4)to a 'best judgment'-assessment.  The other alternative	 forthe Department was to issue a notice under s. 34 of the Act,if  the	 period	 for sending a notice  under  s.  22(2)	 hadexpired.  But it could not issue a notice under s. 34  aftera return was already made before it, and the benefit of	 theextended period of limitation for assessment available underthe  first proviso to sub-s. (3) of s. 34 of one  year	fromthe  service of the notice under sub-s. (1) of that  sectionwas  not available in this case.  The High Court  granted  acertificate of fitness, and hence this appeal.The  arguments which were urged before the High	 Court	wereall  raised in this Court by the parties.  The case  of	 theDepartment was supplemented by an argument that, inasmuch asthe  assessee had suppressed his income or  given  incorrectparticulars thereof, the period during which action under s.34 could be taken was the extended one of 8 years.In  the	 arguments before us, our attention was drawn  to  acleavage of opinion between the Bombay High118Court  on  the one hand and the Calcutta High Court  on	 theother.	While the Bombay High Court seems to be of the	viewthat  a " voluntary " return showing a nontaxable income  isstill  a  good return for all purposes under  the  Act,	 theCalcutta High Court is of the view that what s. 22(1) of theAct requires is a return of  taxable income and not a returnof income, which shows a loss or is below the taxable limit.It  appears  that at one time the Calcutta High	 Court	alsoentertained  the  view that such a return was no  return  atall,  but  it was explained later that this meant  that	 thereturn	was ineffective for the purposes of s. 22(1) of	 theAct, though it might be a " return " being in the prescribedform.	The Bombay High Court also entertains the view	thatthe  assessment	 proceedings commence with the	issue  of  apublic notice, and that s. 34 of the Act cannot apply, wherein  answer to the public notice a return is made whether  oftaxable income or not.	The view of the Calcutta High  Courtis that assessment proceedings commence either with a noticeunder s. 22(2) of the Act or with the filing of a returnshowing	 taxable income.We are not here concerned with the quantum but only with thelegality  of  the assessment.  The side	 issue	whether,  inpoint  of  fact, the cash credits in the name of  the  wife,represented the income (if the husband does not survive	 fordecision.   Thus,  the only question is whether	 the  noticeissued	under s. 34 of the Act on February 27,	1950  (afterthe  assessee filed his " voluntary " return on	 January  5,1950)  and  the	 assessment  thereon,  were  valid  in	law.Section 34(3) of the Act provides  that no assessment exceptthe assessment within el.     (a)  of sub-s. (1) thereof  orunder s. 23 to which el. (c) of	   sub-s.   (1)	 of  s.	  28applies,  shall be made after the expiry of four years	fromthe  end of the year in which income, profits or gains	werefirst assessable.  A proviso, however, allows one year	fromthe date of the service of the notice for the completion  ofthe  assessment.   It reads, omitting matters  not  relevanthere:"  ... where a notice under sub-section (1) has been  issuedwithin	 the  time  therein  limited,  the   assessment	  orreassessment to be made in pursuance of such119notice	may be made before the expiry of one year  from	 thedate  of  the  service of the notice  even  if	such  periodexceeds	 the  period  of . . . four years . .  .  "  It	 is,therefore,  quite clear that the extra period  is  availableonly  if a notice under sub-s. (1) of s. 34 has been  issuedwithin the time therein limited.  This takes us to s. 34(1).Section	 34(1),	 omitting parts not  relevant,	reads:" (1)If ........................................(a)  the  Income-tax Officer has reason to believe  that  byreason of the omission or failure on the part of an assesseeto  make  a return of his income under section 22,  for	 anyyear...... I or(b)  notwithstanding  that  there has been  no	omission  orfailure	 as  mentioned	in clause (a) on  the  part  of	 theassessee,  the	Income-tax  Officer has	 in  consequence  ofinformation in his possession reason to believe that income,profits	 or  gains  chargeable to  income-tax  have  escapedassessment for any year ...he may in cases falling under clause (a) at any time  withineight  years  and in cases falliny under clause (b)  at	 anytime within four years of the end of that year, serve on theassessee. . . a notice . . . and may proceed to assess	suchincome. . . "It  would  appear  from this that if  the  return  filed  onJanuary	 5,  1950,  was a return of  income,  there  was  nofailure	 or omission on the part of the assessee, so  as  tobring  the matter within s. 34(1)(a) of the Act,  and  subs.(3)  of	 s.  34 would then apply to the	 case  limiting	 theperiod to four years.  In that event, the assessment  shouldhave been completed on or before March 31, 1950.  But if thereturn	made by the assessee was no return at all, then	 theconditions under the first subsection of s. 34 obtained, andthe  assessment	 could be completed within one year  of	 thedate  of service of the notice (March 3, 1950), i.e.  on  orbefore	March 2, 1951.	In that event, the assessment  wouldbe  valid.   The validity of the return in this	 context  istied to the validity of the notice and also vice versa.120Section 22 of the Act (omitting the parts not relevant)	 maynow be quoted:" (1) The Income-tax Officer shall, on or before the 1st dayof  May,  in each year, give notice, by publication  in	 thepress...,  requiring every person whose total income  duringthe  previous year exceeded the maximum amount which is	 notchargeable to income-tax to furnish, within such period	 notbeing less than sixty days... a return.... setting  forth...his total income and total world income during that year:(2)  In the case of any person whose total income is, in theIncome-tax Officer's opinion, of such an amount as to rendersuch person liable to income-tax, the Income-tax Officer mayserve  a  notice upon him requiring him to  furnish,  withinsuch period, not being less than thirty days... a return ...setting	 forth ... his total income and total  world  incomeduring the previous year:(3)  If	 any  person has not furnished a return	 within	 thetime allowed by or under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2),or  having  furnished a return under either  of	 those	sub-sections, discovers any omission or wrong statement therein,he may furnish a return or a revised return, as the case maybe at any time before the assessment is made."It  will be seen from this, that, as the Bombay	 High  Courtcorrectly  pointed  out, there is a time limit	provided  insub-ss. (1) and (2) and the failure or omission occurs	whenthat   period	passes,	 but  sub-s  (3)  allows   a   locuspoenitentiae before the assessment is actually made.   Thereis  no	dispute that a return could be filed in	 this  case,late though it was.  The controversy centres round the	factthat  the  return, when it was filed,  disclosed  an  incomewhich  was below the maximum not chargeable to tax, and	 thequestion is whether in such an event the Income-tax  Officerwas precluded from issuing a notice under s. 34 of the	Act.There  has  been  in the past a	 well-marked  difference  ofopinion between the Bombay and the Calcutta High			    121Courts, the leading cases in Bombay being Harakchand Makanji& Co. v. Commissioner of Income-tax (1), All India GroundnutSyndicate  Ltd.	 v. Commissioner of  Income-tax(2)  and	 thedecision under appeal here, while the Calcutta view is to befound  in Commissioner of Agricultural Income-tax v.  SultanAli Gharami (3), R. K. Das & Co. v. Commissioner of  Income-tax  (4) and Commissioner of Income-tax v.  Govindlal  Dutta(5).  To these may be added P. S. Rama Iyer v.	Commissionerof  Income-tax	(6),  in which the  Madras  High  Court	 hasaccepted the Bombay view.No  useful purpose will be served in discussing these  casesin  detail.  In some of them, the point need not  have	beentaken  up for decision, though it was.	We shall refer	verybriefly to the two rival views and the grounds on which theyare  rested,  and in doing so, we begin	 with  the  Calcuttadecisions.  In Sultan Ali Gharami's case (3), a notice unders.   24(1)  of	the  Bengal  Agricultural   Income-tax	 Act(corresponding	to  s.	22(1) of the Act)  was	issued.	  Noreturn	was  filed.  Three years later, a  notice  under  s.24(2) of that Act (corresponding to s. 22(2) of the Act) wasserved,	 and  a return showing an income below	the  taxableminimum was filed.  The contention was that without a noticeunder s. 24(2) within the assessment year or a notice  unders.  38(1) (corresponding to s. 34 (1) of the Act)  the	bestjudgment'  assessment was bad.	The contention	further	 wasthat  the return could be taken to be under s. 24(1)  or  s.24(3).	Chakravarti, J. (as he then was) and Das Gupta,	 J.,held  that  a person who had no assessable  income  was	 notplaced	under  a  duty to file a  return,  that	 the  returnwhether filed under s. 24(1) or s. 24(3) which had failed toshow an assessable income could not possibly be 'treated' asa return under s. 24(1) or even s. 24(3)when filed in answerto  a  notice under s. 24(2).  They further observed  at  p.442:"  A  return under section on 24(1) is a return filed  by  aperson	who  decides for himself that he had  an  assessableincome in the previous year and by filing(1) (1948) 16 1. T. R. 119,   (4) (1056) 30 I. T. R. 439(2) (1954) 25 1. T. R. R      (5) (1957) 33 1. T. R. 630(3) (1951) 20 I. T R. 432(6) (1957) 32 I. T. R. 45816122the  return he offers that income for assessment.. A  personwho had no assessable income in the previous year is  placedunder  no duty by a notice under section 24(1) to furnish  areturn and a person who thinks, rightly or wrongly, that  hehad no assessable income will furnish none.  A return  undersection	 24(1), whether filed within the time allowed  underthe  section or filed subsequently under the  provisions  ofsection 24(3), will therefore show an assessable income... Areturn which showed no assessable income, could not possiblybe  'treated'  as a return filed under section	24(1)  or  areturn called for under that section but filed under section24(3),	when  in fact it was filed in response to  a  noticeunder section 24(2)."The  opinion here expressed was criticised in  the  judgmentunder  appeal,	and  in the next case, R. K.  Das  &  Co  v.Commissioner  of  Income-tax(1),  the  Calcutta	 High  Court(Chakravarti,  C.J.,  and  Sarkar, J.)	explained  what	 wasreally meant.  It is not necessary to refer to the facts  ofthat  case.  This is what Chakravarti, C.J., observed at  p.449:"  It should be remembered', I observed 'that the return  inthe  present case is being sought to be treated as a  returnunder section 24(1), belatedly filed.' And then I went on tosay that a return under section 24(1) would only be filed bya  person  who	thought that he had  a	taxable	 income	 andtherefore a return showing an income below the taxable limitcould not be held, on a construction thereof, to be a returnunder section 24(1) and consequently the return in the	casewe  were  then considering could not be treated	 as  such  areturn	filed under section 24(3).  To say that, was not  tosay  that even a return filed in, compliance with  a  noticeunder section 22(2), if filed belatedly under section  22(3)could  not be a return showing an income below	the  taxablelimit."This  left  the	 matter somewhat ambiguous as  to  what	 wasreally meant, and in Commissioner of Income-tax v. GovindlalDutta(2),Chakravarti, C. J., and Guha, J.,(1) (1956) 30 I.T.R. 439.(2) (1957) 33 I.T.R. 630.123again explained the true import of the law laid down.	Theyreferred  to  s. 22(1) of the Act as it stood prior  to	 theamendment  of 1953, and observed that under that  section  aperson	was  required  to file a return only  if  his  totalincome during the preceding year exceeded the maximum amountwhich  was not chargeable to tax.  The	return	contemplatedwas  thus only a return of income and not a return  of	lossand  not  even a return of income, but a return	 of  taxableincome.	  Not only had a person no duty but he had  even  noright  to  file a return voluntarily, if he had	 suffered  aloss,  to 'report' that loss.  The learned Judges  concludedthat  it  was  a complete mistake to  think  that  s.  22(3)provided for the filing of a voluntary return showing  loss,at any time, before assessment.	 That section, they  opined,contemplated the filing of a return of taxable income, and areturn	not showing such income was not a return at  all  inlaw.The Calcutta view, as shown above, really proceeds upon	 thewording	 of s. 22(1).  It lays down that the  public  noticerequires  only	persons having an income above	the  taxablelimit  to  make a return.  A person who has no	such  incomeneed not make a return, and if he does make a return, it  isnot a return which need be considered, being not a return inlaw.It is a little difficult to understand how the existence  ofa  return can be ignored, once it has been filed.  A  returnshowing	 income below the taxable limit can be made even  inanswer	to  a notice under s. 22(2).  The  notice  under  s.22(1) requires in a general way what a notice under s. 22(2)requires of an individual.  If a return of income below	 thetaxable	 limit is a good return in answer to a notice  unders.  22(2),  there is no reason to think that a return  of  asimilar	 kind in answer to a public notice is no  return  atall.   The conclusion does not follow from the words  of  s.22(1).	No doubt, under that sub-section only those  personsare required to make a return, whose income is above taxablelimits,	 but  a	 person may  legitimately  consider  himselfentitled to certain deductions and allowances, and yet	filea return to be on the safe side.  He may show his income andthe124deductions and allowances he claims.  But it may be that  ona correct processing his income may be found to be above theexempted  limit.   No doubt, it is futile for a	 person	 notliable	to tax to rush in with a return, but the  return  inlaw  is not a mere scrap of paper.  It is a return, such  asthe assessee considers, represents his true income.We  are unable (and we say this with due respect) to  acceptthe  view  adumbrated in the Calcutta cases.   The  contraryview  is expressed by the Bombay High Court in	the  earliercase of Harakchand Makanji & Co. v. Commissioner of  Income-tax  (1)  and in the judgment under appeal.  That  view	 wasaccepted  by  the Madras High Court in P. S.  Rama  Iyer  v.Commissioner of Income-tax (2) and also, in our opinion,  isthe  sounder  view of the two.	In the earlier	of  the	 twoBombay	cases,	Chagla, C. J., and Tendolkar, J.,  held	 (asstated in the head note):" Notice under section 34 is only necessary if at the end ofthe assessment year no return has been made by the assessee,and  the authorities wished to proceed under section  22(2),but where the assessee himself chooses voluntarily to make areturn, no question can arise under section 34 of assessmentescaping,  and therefore there is no necessity to serve	 anynotice under section 34."This represents the law applicable to the facts as they	 areto be found in this case.  In the assessment year no  returnof  income  was filed, nor was any notice  served  under  s.22(2).	 There	was, however, the general  notice  under  s.22(1).	 A  return in answer to that notice could  be  filedunder  s. 22(3) before assessment, and for this there is  nolimit of time.	It was filed on January 5, 1950.  There	 wasnothing to prevent the Income-tax Officer from taking up thereturn and proceeding to assess the income of the  assessee.It  was open to him, if there was  sufficient  justificationfor  it, to hold that the amount noted in the  footnote	 wasreally	the assessee's income, in which case  an  assessableincome	would have been found and the tax could	 be  chargedthereon.  If the Income-tax Officer had acted on that returnand assessed the assessee(1) (1948) 16 I.T.R. 119.(2) (1957) 321, T. R. 458.125before March 31, 1950, the assessment would have been valid.He chose to ignore the return, and served on the assessee  anotice	under s. 34(1).	 This notice was  improper,  becausewith the return already filed there was neither an  omissionnor a failure on the part of the assessee, nor was there anyquestion  of  assessment 'escaping'.  The  notice  under  s.34(1) was, therefore, invalid and the consequent  assessmentequally	 so.  We accordingly agree with the  judgment  underappeal.Before	leaving	 this  case,  we  may  refer  to  two  otherarguments, which were raised.  Mr. Rajagopala Sastri pointedout  that an assessee might file the 'voluntary'  return  onthe last day showing income less than the taxable limit, andthe  Department would, in that case, be driven	to  completethe  assessment proceedings within a few hours or  lose	 theright  to  send	 a notice under s. 34(1).   An	argument  abinconvenienti  is not a decisive argument.   The  Income-taxOfficer	 could have avoided the result by issuing  a  noticeunder  s. 23(2) and not remaining inactive until the  periodwas  about to expire.  Further, all laws of limitation	leadto some inconvenience and hard cases.  The remedy is for thelegislature  to	 amend	the law suitably.   The	 Courts	 canadminister  the laws as they find them, and they are  seldomrequired to be astute to defeat the law of limitation.	Thisargument  is  thus  no	answer	to  the	 clear	meaning	 andimplications of the Act.The  other argument was that the return was not a true	one,and  fell within the mischief of cl. (c) of sub-s.(1) of  s.28,  and  that, therefore, the period  during  which  actioncould  be taken was the extended one of 8 years.  The  shortanswer	to  that  is  that  this  was  not  a  part  of	 theDepartment's case at any prior stage, and cannot be  allowedto be raised now.In  our	 opinion,  the answers given by the  High  Court  ofBombay were correct in all the circumstances of this case.The appeal thus fails, and is dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.126