PETITIONER:GOPI CHAND	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE DELHI ADMINISTRATIONDATE OF JUDGMENT:20/01/1959BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.WANCHOO, K.N.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR  609		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2)  87 CITATOR INFO : D	    1960 SC 457	 (18,39) R	    1976 SC 714	 (81) RF	    1977 SC1884	 (12) RF	    1991 SC1117	 (11)ACT:       Criminal Trial--Temporary enactment--Provision for trial	 of       specified  offences  under  summons  procedure  in  notified       areas--Constitutional validity--Applicability to Proceedings       Pending	 on   expiry  of   enactment--Absence	of   saving       provision--East	Punjab Public Safety Act, 1949 (Punj. 5	 of       1949), ss. 36(1), 20--Constitution of India, Art.14--General       Clauses Act, 1879 (10 of 1879), s. 6.HEADNOTE:Section	 36(1) of the East Punjab Public Safety	 Act,  1949,(Punj.	5  Of  1949), which was passed in the  wake  of	 thepartition disturbances in India with a view to ensure publicsafety	and the maintenance of public order,  provided	thatoffences  mentioned  therein  land  committed  in  the	areadeclared to be dangerously disturbed under S. 20 Of the Act,should	be tried under the summons procedure  prescribed  byCh.   XX  of the Code of Criminal Procedure.  By  the  firstnotification issued under s. 2o of the Act, the whole of theProvince of Delhi was declared to be a dangerously disturbedarea;  subsequently  the second	 notification  purported  tocancel	the  first.  The third notification then  sought  tomodify the second by inserting into it the words "except  asrespect	 things	 done  or omitted to  be  done	before	thisnotification  ".  The fourth and  last	notification  issuedunder  s.  36(1)  of  the Act  sought  to  save	 proceedingsthereunder  pending  after  the cancellation  of  the  firstnotification.	The  appellant who was put up for  trial  inthree  cases  for  offences  ordinarily	 triable  under	 thewarrant	 procedure,  was tried under the  summons  procedureaccording to s. 36(1) of the Act and the first	notificationand  the trials were continued even after the expiry of	 theAct  in respect of substantial parts of them under the	sameprocedure and ended in his conviction which was affirmed  bythe  High Court in appeal.  The Act was a temporary Act	 andcontained no provision saving pending proceedings.  'It	 wascontended on behalf of the appellant that the first part  ofS.  36(1)  of the Act in treating the disturbed areas  as  aclass  by themselves and providing a uniform  procedure	 forthe  trial  of specified offences violated Art.	 14  Of	 theConstitution  and that the continuance of the  trials  underthe  summons procedure even after the expiry of the Act	 wasinvalid.Held,	that   the  two	 tests	of  the	 validity   of	 theclassification	made by the Legislature were, (1)  that	 theclassification must be based on an intelligible	 differentiaand  (2) that this differentia must be reasonably  connectedwith  the  object of the legislation.	Thus  tested,  therecould	be  no	doubt,	in  the	 present  case,	  that	 theclassification on a geographical basis made by the impugned88Act between areas that were dangerously disturbed and  otherareas,	in  the interest of speedy trial  of  offences,	 wasperfectly justified.Ram Krishna Dalmia v. justice Tendolkar, [1959] S.C.R.	279,relied on.Lachmandas  Kewalram  Ahuja v. The State of  Bombay,  [1952]S.C.R. 710, held inapplicable.But since the impugned Act was a temporary Act and containedno  appropriate	 provision  saving  the	 summons   procedureprescribed by it, that procedure could not, on the expiry ofthe Act,  apply to the cases pending against the  appellant.Krishnan  v. The State of Madras, [1951] S.C.R. 621,  reliedon.Wicks v. Director of Public Prosecutions,    [1947]	A.C.362, referred to.The  third and the fourth notifications, obviously  intendedto  cure the absence of a saving provision in the Act,	were'wholly	 outside the authority conferred on the delegate  bys. 2o or s. 36(1) of the Act and must be held to be invalid.With  the issue of the second notification,  therefore,	 theentire	province  of  Delhi  ceased  to	 be  a	 dangerouslydisturbed area.It was erroneous to apply by analogy the provisions of s.  6of the General Clauses Act to cases governed by a  temporaryAct, such as the one in question, which did not contain	 theappropriate  saving  provision and contend  that  since	 thetrials	had commenced validly, their continuance  under	 thesame  procedure	 even after the declaration  had  ceased  tooperate	 and  subsequent orders of conviction  and  sentencepassed therein were valid as well.Srinivasachari	v.  The	 Queen, (1883) I.L.R.  6  Mad.	336,Mukund	v.  Ladu,  (1901) 3 Bom.  L.R. 584  and	 Gardner  v.Lucas, (1878) 3 A.C. 582, held inapplicable.Ram  Singh  v. The Crown, A.I.R. 1950 East Punjab  25,	dis-approved.Syed  Qasim Razvi v. The State of Hyderabad,  [1953]  S.C.R.589, referred to and distinguished.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeals Nos. 25-27of 1955.Appeals from the judgments and order dated February 1, 1955,of  the	 Punjab	 High Court (Circuit Bench),  Delhi  in	 Cr.Appeals	 Nos. 5-D, 6-D and 13-D of 1952, arising out of	 thejudgments  and	orders dated December 22, 1951, of  the	 1stClass  Magistrate, New Delhi in Criminal Cases	Nos.  220/2,221/2 and 223/2 of 1949.89Ram Lal Anand and S. N. Anand, for the appellant.H. J. Umrigar and T. M. Sen, for the respondent.1959.  January 20.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyGAJENDRAGADKAR J.-These three appeals have, been filed	withcertificates granted by the High Court of Punjab under	Art.134(1)	(c)  of the Constitution and they arise	 from  threecriminal  cases filed against the appellant.  The  appellantGopi  Chand  was the chief cashier, and Hukam Chand  was  anassistant  cashier, in the United Commercial Bank Ltd.,	 NewDelhi.	 They were charged with the commission	of  offencesunder s. 409 in three separate cases.  In the first case No.223/2  of  1949, the prosecution case was that on  or  aboutApril  8,  1948, both had agreed to commit, or cause  to  becommitted, criminal breach of trust in respect of the  fundsof  the Bank where they were employed; and in  pursuance  ofthe  said  agreement they had committed criminal  breach  oftrust in respect of the total amount of Rs. 1,65,000.	Theywere thus charged under ss. 408, 409 and 120B of the  IndianPenal  Code.   The appellant was convicted  of	the  offenceunder  s.  409 read with s. 120 and  sentenced	to  rigorousimprisonment  for  seven  years.   Against  this  order	  ofconviction  and sentence he preferred an appeal to the	HighCourt of Punjab (No. 5-D of 1952).  The High Court confirmedhis  conviction but altered the sentence imposed on  him  bydirecting  that	 he  should  suffer  four  year's   rigorousimprisonment  and  pay a fine of Rs. 10,000  or	 in  defaultsuffer rigorous imprisonment for fifteen months.  The  orderof  conviction	and  sentence  thus  passed  gives  rise  toCriminal Appeal No. 25 of 1955 in this Court.In  the	 second case (No. 221/2 of 1949) the  appellant	 wascharged	 with having committed an offence under ss. 408	 and409  of	 the  Indian Penal Code in  that  he  had  committedcriminal  breach  of trust in respect of an  amount  of	 Rs.23,772-8-6.   The trial magistrate ,convicted the  appellantof  the	 said offence and sentenced him to  suffer  rigorousimprisonment for five years.1290On  appeal  (No. 6-D of 1952) the order	 of  conviction	 wasconfirmed  but	the sentence imposed on him was	 reduced  tothree  years' rigorous imprisonment.  This order  has  givenrise to Criminal Appeal No. 26 of 1955in this Court.In  the third case (No. 220/2 of 1949) the appellant,  HukamChand and Ganga Dayal were charged with having committed  anoffence	 under	s. 409/408 read with s. 120B of	 the  IndianPenal Code in that all of them had agreed to commit criminalbreach	of  trust  in  respect of  the	sum  of	 Rs.  10,000belonging  to  the Bank and that in pursuance  of  the	saidagreement they had committed the criminal breach of trust inrespect of the said amount.  The trial magistrate  convictedthe  appellant of the offence charged and sentenced  him  tofour  year's rigorous imprisonment.  On appeal (No. 13-D  of1952)  the High Court confirmed the conviction	but  reducedthe sentence to two years' rigorous imprisonment.  From thisorder arises Criminal Appeal No. 27 of 1955 in this Court.The appellant has obtained a certificate from the High Courtunder  Art. 134(1) (c) of the Constitution because he  seeksto  challenge  the validity of the order of  conviction	 andsentence passe against him in the three cases on the  groundthat  the  proceedings in all the said cases are  void.	  Hecontends that, whereas the charges framed against him had tobe tried according to the procedure prescribed for the trialof warrant cases, the learned trial magistrate tried all thecases according to the procedure prescribed for the trial ofsummons	 cases	and  that makes	 void  all  the	 proceedingsincluding the final orders of conviction and the sentences.The point arises in this way.  The East Punjab Public SafetyAct,  1949  (Punj. 5 of 1949), hereinafter called  the	Act,which  came  into  force on March 29, 1949,  was  passed  toprovide	 for  special measures to ensure public	 safety	 andmaintenance  of public order.  It is common ground that	 theoffences with which the appellant was charged would normallyhave to be tried under the procedure prescribed by ch.	 XXIof the Code of Criminal Procedure for the trial of warrant91cases  but in fact they have been tried under the  procedureprescribed  by ch.  XX for the trial of summons cases.	 Thesummons procedure differs from the warrant procedure in somematerial points.  Under the former procedure a charge is notto  be	framed	while under the latter a charge	 has  to  beframed	under  s.  254 of the Code.   Similarly	 an  accusedperson	 gets(	only  one  chance  of  cross-examining	 theprosecution  witnesses under the summons  procedure  whereasunder the warrant procedure he is entitled to  cross-examinethe  said  witnesses twice, once before the framing  of	 thecharge and again after the charge is framed.  The  appellantconcedes that the cases against him were tried according  tothe summons procedure by reason of s. 36 of the Act and	 thenotification  issued  under  it; but be	 contends  that	 therelevant  provisions  of  the Act are  ultra  vires  and  healternatively  argues that the proceedings in respect  of  asubstantial part were continued under the summons  procedureeven   after   the  Act	 had  expired	and   the   relevantnotifications  had ceased to be operative.  That is how	 thevalidity  of the trial and of the orders of  conviction	 andsentence is challenged by the appellant.It would be relevant at this stage to refer to the  materialprovisions of the Act and the relevant notifications  issuedunder  it.  The Act came into force on March 29,  1949.	  Itwas passed to provide for special measures to ensure  publicsafety and maintenance of public order.	 Section' 36 of	 theAct  prescribes	 the procedure for the	trial  of  specifiedoffences;  under sub-s. (1) all offences under this  Act  orunder  any  other  law	for the time being  in	force  in  adangerously  disturbed	area,  and in  any  other  area	 alloffences  under	 this Act and any other	 offence  under	 anyother law which the Provincial Government may certify to  betriable	 under	this  Act,  shall be  tried  by	 the  courtsaccording to the procedure prescribed by the Code,  providedthat in all cases the procedure prescribed for the trial  ofsummons	 cases	by  ch.	 XX of the Code	 shall	be  adopted,subject, in the case of summary trials, to the provisions ofss. 263 to 265 of the Code.  For the avoidance of doubt sub-s. (2) provided that92the  provisions	 of sub-s. (1) shall apply to the  trial  ofoffences   mentioned  therein  committed  before  the	com-mencement  of this Act, and in a dangerously disturbed	areacommitted  before the date of the notification under s.	 20,in respect of it.  Under s. 20 the Provincial Government  isauthorised by notification to declare that the whole or	 anypart of the Province as may be specified in the notificationto be a dangerously disturbed area.Four  notifications were issued under s. 20.  By  the  firstnotification  issued  on  July 8, 1949,	 the  whole  of	 theProvince of Delhi was declared to be a dangerously disturbedarea  by  the  competent  authority.   It  appears  that  onSeptember  28,	1950, the said authority issued	 the  secondnotification  cancelling the first notification with  effectfrom October 1, 1950.  This notification was followed by thethird  notification on October 6, 1950, which  purported  tomodify it by inserting the words " except as respect  thingsdone  or  omitted  to  be  done	 before	 the  date  of	thisnotification  after the words " with effect from October  1,1950   in  other  words,  this	notification  purported	  tointroduce  an  exception to the cancellation  of  the  firstnotification  caused  by  the  second,	and  in	 effect	  itpurported  to treat the Province of Delhi as  a	 dangerouslydisturbed  area in respect of things done or omitted  to  bedone  before  the date of the said notification.   The	lastnotification was issued on April 7, 1951.  This notificationwas issued by the Chief Commissioner of Delhi in exercise ofthe powers conferred by sub-s. (1) of s. 36 of the Act,	 andby  it he certified as being triable under the said  Act  inany  area within the State of Delhi not being a	 dangerouslydisturbed  area	 the following offences, viz.,	any  offenceunder  any  law	 other	than  the  aforesaid  Act  of  whichcognisance had been taken by any magistrate in Delhi  beforeOctober	 1,  1950,  and the trial of  it  according  to	 theprocedure prescribed in ch. 4 of the said Act was pending inany  court  immediately	 before the said date  and  had	 notconcluded  before the date of the certificate issued by	 thenotification.Let us now mention the facts about the trial of the93three  cases against the appellant about which there  is  nodispute.  , The First Information Report was  filed  againstthe appellant on June 30, 1948.	 The trial commenced on July18,  1949, and it was conducted according to  the  procedureprescribed  by	ch.   XX of  the  Code'.   Some	 prosecutionwitnesses  were examined and cross-examined  before  January26,  1950,  and the' whole of the prosecution  evidence	 wasrecorded  before  August  14, 1951.  The  evidence  for	 thedefence	 was  recorded	up to November	14,  1951,  and	 thelearned magistrate pronounced his judgments in all the caseson December 22, 1951.For the appellant, Mr. Ram Lal Anand contends that s.  36(1)of   the  Act  is  ultra  vires	 because  it  violates	 thefundamental right of equality before law guaranteed by	Art.14 of the Constitution.	 His argument is that since offencescharged against the appellant were triable under the warrantprocedure under the Code, the adoption of summons  procedurewhich  s.  36(1) authorised amounts  to	 discrimination	 andthereby	 violates Art. 14.  It is the first part  of  sub-s.(1) of s. 36 which is impugned by the appellant.  The effectof  the	 impugned  provisions  is that,	 after	an  area  isdeclared to be dangerously disturbed, offences specified  init  would be tried according to the summons  procedure	eventhough they have ordinarily to be tried according to warrantprocedure.    The  question  is	 whether  in  treating	 thedangerously disturbed areas as a class by themselves and  inproviding for one uniform procedure for the trial of all thespecified offences in such areas the impugned provision	 hasviolated Art. 14.The point about the construction of Art. 14 has come  beforethis   Court  on  numerous  occasions,	and  it	  has	beenconsistently  held that Art. 14 does not  forbid  reasonableclassifications	 for the purpose of legislation.   In  orderthat any classification made by the Legislature can be	heldto  be	permissible  or	 legitimate two	 tests	have  to  besatisfied.    The  classification  must	 be  based   on	  anintelligible  differentia  which  distinguishes	 persons  orthings grouped together in one class from others left out ofit, and the differentia must have a94reasonable  or rational nexus with the object sought  to  beachieved  by the said impugned provision.  It is true  that,in the application of these tests uniform approach might notalways	have been adopted, or, in dealing with the  relevantconsiderations emphasis might have shifted; but the validityof the two tests  that have to be applied in determining thevires  of  the	impugned statute under	Art.  14  cannot  bedoubted.In  the present case the classification has  obviously	beenmade   on   a  territorial  or	geographical   basis.	 TheLegislature  thought it expedient to provide for the  speedytrial of the specified offences in areas which were notifiedto be dangerously disturbed areas ; and for this purpose theareas  in the State have been put in two  categories,  thosethat  are dangerously disturbed and others.  Can it be	saidthat  this classification is not founded on an	intelligibledifferentia.?  In  dealing with this question  it  would  berelevant  to  recall the tragedy of the	 holocaust  and	 thesavage butchery and destruction of property which  afflictedseveral	 parts of the border State of Punjab in the wake  ofthe  partition	of  India.   Faced  with  the  unprecedentedproblem. presented by this tragedy, the Legislature  thoughtthat the dangerously disturbed areas had to be dealt with ona special footing; and on this basis it provided inter	aliafor  the  trial of the specified offences  in  a  particularmanner.	  That	obviously  is the genesis  of  the  impugnedstatute.  That being the position, it is impossible to	holdthat the classification between dangerously disturbed  areasof the State on the one hand and the non_ disturbed areas onthe  other was not rational or that it was not based  on  anintelligible differentia.  Then again, the object of the Actwas  obviously	to ensure public safety and  maintenance  ofpublic	order;	and there can be no doubt  that	 the  speedytrial  of  the specified offences had an  intimate  rationalrelation  or nexus with the achievement of the said  object.There  is  no doubt that the procedure	prescribed  for	 thetrial of summons cases is simpler, shorter and speedier; andso,  when  the dangerously disturbed areas were	 facing	 theproblem	  of  unusual  civil  commotion	 and   strife,	 theLegislature was justified95in  enacting  the  first part of s. 36	so  that  the  casesagainst persons charged with the commission of the specifiedoffences  could be speedily tried and disposed of.  We	are,therefore, satisfied that the challenge to the vires of	 thefirst  part of sub-s. (1) of s. 36 cannot be sustained.	  Inthis connection we may refer to the recent decision of	thisCourt  in Ram Krishna Dalmia v. Justice Tendolkar (1).	 Thejudgment in that case has considered the previous  decisionsof this Court on Art. 14, has classified and explained them,and has enumerated the principles deducible from them.	 Theapplication of the principles there deduced clearly supportsthe validity of the impugned provisions.It is, however, urged by Mr. Ram Lal Anand that the decisionof  this Court in Lachmandas Kewalram Ahuja v. The State  ofBombay (2) supports his contention that s. 36(1) is invalid.We are not impressed by this argument.	In Ahuja's case	 (2)the  objects  of  the impugned Act were	 the  expediency  ofconsolidating and amending the law relating to the  securityof the State, maintenance of public order and maintenance ofsupplies  and  services essential to the  community  in	 theState  of Bombay.  These considerations applied	 equally  toboth  categories  of cases, those referred  to	the  SpecialJudge  and those not so referred; and so, on the  date	whenthe  Constitution  came into force,  the  classification  onwhich  s.  12  was based became	 fanciful  and	without	 anyrational  basis	 at  all.  That is  why,  according  to	 themajority   decision  s.	 12  contravened  Art.	14  of	 theConstitution and as such was ultra vires.It  is	difficult  to see how this  decision  can  help	 theappellant's  case.   The impugned provision in	the  presentcase  makes  no distinction between one class of  cases	 andanother,  much	less  between cases  directed  to  be  triedaccording to the summons procedure before January 26,  1950,and  those not so directed.  The summons procedure  is	madeapplicable to all offences under the Act or under any  otherlaw  for  the  time  being in force;  in  other	 words,	 allcriminal  offences are ordered to be tried according to	 thesummons procedure in the dangerously disturbed areas.	Thatbeing(1) A.I.R. 1958 S.C. 538.(2) [1952] S.C.R. 710, 731.96so,  we do not think that the decision in Ahuja's  case	 (1)has  any application at all.  Thus we feel no difficulty  inholding	 that the impugned provision contained in the  firstpart of s. 36(1) is constitutional and valid.Then it is urged that the Act which came into force on March29,  1949,  was due to expire and did expire on	 August	 14,1951,  and  so the proceedings taken against  the  appellantunder  the  summons procedure after the	 expiration  of	 thetemporary  Act were invaid.  It is argued that,	 in  dealingwith  this point, it would not be permissible to invoke	 theprovisions  of s. 6 of the General Clauses Act	because	 thesaid  section deals with the effect of repeal  of  permanentstatutes.   This  argument  no doubt  is  well-founded.	  AsCraies has observed, " as a general rule, unless it containssome  special provisions to the contrary, after a  temporaryAct  has expired no proceedings can be taken upon it and  itceases to have any further effect " (2).  This principle hasbeen  accepted	by this Court in Krishnan v.  The  State  ofMadras	(3).   " The general rule in regard to	a  temporarystatute	 is ", observed Patanjali Sastri J., " that, in	 theabsence	 of special provision to the  contrary,	 proceedingswhich  are being taken against a person under it  will	ipsofacto terminate as soon as the statute expires".  It is truethat the Legislature can and often enough does avoid such ananomalous consequence by enacting in the temporary statute asaving provision, and the effect of such a saving  provisionis in some respects similar to the effect of the  provisionsof s. 6 of the General Clauses Act.  As an illustration,  wemay  refer  to the decision in Wicks v. Director  of  PublicProsecutions (4).  In that case ail offence against  Defence(General)  Regulations	made  under  the  Emergency   Powers(Defence)  Act, 1939, was committed during the	currency  ofthe Act and the offender was prosecuted and convicted  afterthe  expiry  of	 the  Act.  The	 contention  raised  by	 theoffender  that his prosecution and conviction  were  invalidbecause, at the relevant time, the temporary(1)  [1952] S.C.R. 710, 731.(2)  Craies on " Statute Law ", 5th Ed., P. 377.(3)  [1951] S.C.R. 621, 628.(4)  [1947] A.C. 362.97Act  had  expired  was rejected in view	 of  the  provisionsof.,;.	11,  sub-s.  3 of the  Act.   This  sub-section	 hadprovided  that	the expiry of the Act shall not	 affect	 theoperation  thereof  as respects things	previously  done  oromitted to be done.  The House of Lords agreed with the viewexpressed  by the Court of Criminal Appeal and held that  itwas clear that Parliament( did not intend sub-s. 3 to expirewith  the  rest	 of the Act and that  its  presence  in	 thestatute	 is  a	provision  which  preserved  the  right	  toprosecute after the date of its expiry.	 Since the  impugnedAct  does  not	contain an appropriate	saving	section	 theappellant  would  be  entitled to contend  that,  after	 theexpiration  of the Act, the procedure laid down in it  couldno  longer be invoked in the cases then pending against	 theappellant.  We would like to add that, in the present  case,we are not called upon to consider whether offences  createdby  a  temporary  statute  cease to  be	 punishable  on	 itsexpiration.For the respondent, Mr. Umrigar, however, contends that	 theappellant is wrong in assuming that the Act in fact  expiredon  August  14, 1951.  He has invited our attention  to	 theprovisions  of	Act  No. I of 1951 by  which  the  Presidentextended some of the provisions of the earlier temporary Actin  exercise of the powers conferred by s. 3 of	 the  PunjabState  Legislature (Delegation of Powers) Act, 1951  (46  of1951),	The provisions of that Act extended to the whole  ofthe  State  of Punjab and came into force on  September	 13,1951.	Mr. Umrigar relied on s. 16 of Act 46 of 1951  whichrepealed the East Punjab Public Safety Act, 1949 (Punj. 5 of1949) and the East Punjab Safety (Amendment) Ordinance, 1951(5  of 1951) but provided that notwithstanding	such  repealany   order   made,  notification   or	 direction   issued,appointment  made or action taken under the said Act and  inforce immediately before the commencement of this Act shall,in  so far as it is not inconsistent therewith, continue  inforce and be deemed to have been made, issued or taken underthe corresponding provisions of this Act.  It must, however,be pointed out that this1398Act  does  not	continue  the  material	 provisions  of	 theimpugned Act such ass. 20 and s. 36 ; and so s. 16 cannot beinvoked	 for the purpose of validating the  continuation  ofthe  subsequent	 proceedings against the  appellant  in	 thecases then pending against him.Besides, it is necessary to recall that s. 36(1) of the	 Actprescribed  the application of the summons procedure in	 thetrial  of specified offences only in  dangerously  disturbedareas;	and  so, unless it is shown that the  relevant	areacould  be  treated as a dangerously disturbed  area  at	 thematerial  time,	 s. 36(1) would be inapplicable.   In  otherwords,	the  adoption  of the  summons	procedure  would  bejustified  only	 so long as the area in	 question  could  bevalidly	 treated ,as a dangerously disturbed area and it  istherefore pertinent to enquire whether at the relevant	timethe  area in question was duly and validly notified to be  adangerously disturbed area.We have already referred to the four notifications issued bythe competent authority.  The second notification  purportedto  cancel  with  effect from October  1,  1950,  the  firstnotification which had declared the whole of the Province ofDelhi  as a dangerously disturbed area.	 A week	 thereafter,the  third notification sought to introduce an exception  tothe  cancellation  as notified by the  second  notification.Apart from the question as to whether, after the lapse of  aweek, it was competent to the authority to modify the secondnotification,  it  is  difficult to understand	how  it	 waswithin	the jurisdiction of the notifying authority  to	 saythat  the whole of the Province of Delhi had ceased to be  adangerously disturbed area " except as respects things	doneor  omitted to be done before the date of this	notification".  Section 20 of the Act under which this notification	 hasbeen issued authorised the Provincial Government to  declarethat the whole or any part of the Province was a dangerouslydisturbed  area.  The notification could declare either	 thewhole  or a part of the Province as a dangerously  disturbedarea; but s. 20 does not empower the notifying authority  totreat any area as being dangerously disturbed in respect  ofcertain things and not dangerously disturbed99in  regard  to	others.	  Authority  to'  declare  areas  asdangerously disturbed has no doubt been validly delegated tothe  Provincial	 Government;  but  no  authority  has	beenconferred on the delegate to treat any area as disturbed forcertain	 things	 and  not disturbed for	 others.   We  have,therefore, no doubt that in introducing the exception to thecancellation  effected by the second notification the  thirdnotification has gone outside the authority conferred by  s.20  and is clearly invalid.  If that be so, it must be	heldthat  the  whole  of the Province of Delhi ceased  to  be  adangerously disturbed area as from October, 1, 1950.It  was probably realised that the-third notification  wouldbe  invalid and hence the fourth notification was issued  onApril 7, 1951.	This purports to be a certificate issued  bythe competent authority under the second part of s. 36, sub-s.  (1).  This certificate seeks to achieve the same  resultby  declaring  that  though the State of  Delhi	 was  not  adangerously  disturbed area, the offences specified  in	 thenotification   would  nevertheless  continue  to  be   triedaccording to the summons procedure.This  notification is clearly not authorised by	 the  powersconferred by the second part of s. 36, sub-s. (1).  What theProvincial Government is authorised to do by the second partof  s.	36(1) is to direct that in areas  other	 than  thosewhich  are dangerously disturbed all offences under the	 Actand  any other offence under any other law should  be  triedaccording  to the summons procedure.  It is clear  that	 thenotification  which the Provincial Government is  authorisedto  issue in this behalf must relate to all  offences  underthe Act and any other offence under any other law.  In otherwords, it is the offences indicated which can be ordered  tobe  tried  under the summons procedure by  the	notificationissued	 by  the  Provincial  Government.   The	  ProvincialGovernment  is	not authorised to issue	 a  notification  inregard	to  the trial of any specified case  or	 cases;	 andsince  it is clear that the notification in question  coversonly pending cases and has no reference to offences or classof offences under the Indian Penal Code,, it is outside the100authority  conferred by the second part of s. 36(1).  It  isobvious	  that	the  third  and	 the  fourth   notificationsattempted to cure the anomaly which it was apprehended wouldfollow in regard to pending cases in the absence of a savingsection	 in the Act.  If through inadvertence  or  otherwisethe  Act did not contain an appropriate saving section,	 thedefect could not be cured by the notifications issued eitherunder  s. 20 or under s. 36(1) of the Act.  In	issuing	 thesaid  notifications the competent authority was taking	uponitself the functions of the Legislature and that clearly wasoutside	 its authority as a delegate either under s.  20  orunder s. 36(1) of the Act.Mr.  Umrigar, then, argues that the competent authority	 wasentitled to modify the notification issued by it because thepower  to issue a notification must also involve  the  powereither to cancel, vary or modify the same; and in support ofthis argument Mr. Umrigar relies on the provisions of s.  19of  the Punjab General Clauses Act, 1898 (Punj. 1  of  1898)which  in  substance corresponds to cl. 21  of	the  GeneralClauses	 Act,  1897  (10 of 1897).   In	 our  opinion,	thisargument  is  not well-founded.	 Section 19  of	 the  PunjabGeneral Clauses Act, like s. 21 of the General Clauses	Act,embodies  a rule of construction, the nature and  extent  ofthe application of which must inevitably be governed by	 therelevant  provisions of the statute which confers the  powerto  issue  the	notification.	The  power  to	cancel	 thenotification  can  be  easily  conceded	 to  the   competentauthority  and	so also the power to modify or	vary  it  belikewise  conceded;  but the said power must  inevitably  beexercised  within  the limits prescribed  by  the  provisionconferring   the  said	power.	 Now  s.  20  empowers	 theProvincial  Government to declare the whole or any  part  ofthe  Province to be a dangerously disturbed area; and  if  anotification  is issued in respect of the whole or any	partof the Province it may be either cancelled wholly or may  bemodified restricting the declaration to -a specified part ofthe  Province.	 The  power  to cancel	or  modify  must  beexercised in reference to the areas of the Province which itis competent for the Provincial101Government  to specify as dangerously disturbed.  The  powerto  modify cannot obviously include the power to  treat	 thesame  area as dangerously disturbed for persons	 accused  ofcrimes	committed in the past and not disturbed	 for  othersaccused of the same or similar A, offences committed  later.That  clearly  is  a legislative function  which  is  whollyoutside the authority conferred on the delegate by s. 20  ors.  36(1).  We must, therefore, hold that the third and	 thefourth	notifications  are invalid and as a  result  of	 thesecond	notification  the  whole of the	 Province  of  Delhiceased	to be a dangerously disturbed area from	 October  1,1950.This  position	immediately raises the	question  about	 thevalidity of the proceedings continued against the  appellantin  the	 three cases pending against him under	the  summonsprocedure.   So	 long  as the State  of	 Delhi	was  validlynotified to be a dangerously disturbed area the adoption  ofthe  summons  procedure	 was  no  doubt	 justified  and	 itsvalidity Could not be impeached; but, with the	cancellationof  the relevant notification s. 36(1) of the Act ceased  toapply  and it was necessary that as from the stage at  whichthe  cases  against  the appellant then	 stood	the  warrantprocedure  should  have been adopted; and since it  has	 notbeen adopted the trial of the three cases is invalid and  sothe  orders of conviction and sentence imposed	against	 himare  void.   That  in brief is	the  alternative  contentionraised before us by Mr. Ram Lal Anand.Mr.  Umrigar,  urges  that  since  the	trial  had   validlycommenced under the summons procedure, it was unnecessary tochange the procedure after October 1, 1950, and his case  isthat  the  trial  is not defective in  any  manner  and	 thechallenge  to  the  validity  of  the  impugned	 orders	  ofconviction and sentence should not be upheld.  In support ofhis  argument Mr.Umrigar has invited our attention  to	somedecisions which may now be considered.	In Srinivasachari v.The  Queen (1) the accused was tried by a Court of  Sessionsin  December 1882 on charges some of which were	 triable  byassessors  and	others	by  jury.   Before  the	 trial	 wasconcluded  the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1882,  came	intoforce(1)  [1883] I.L.R. 6 Mad. 336.102and  under  s. 269 of the Code all the said  charges  becametriable by jury.  Section 558 of the Code had provided	thatthe provisions of the new Code had to be applied, as far  asmay  be,  to  all cases pending in  any	 criminal  court  onJanuary	 1,  1883.  The case against the accused  which	 waspending	 on the date  when the new Act came into  force	 wassubmitted  to the High Court for orders; and the High  Courtdirected  that by virtue of s. 6 of the General Clauses	 Actthe trial must be conducted under the rules of procedure  inforce  at the commencement of the trial.  It is	 clear	thatthe  decision  of  the	High Court was	based  both  on	 thespecific  provisions  of  s.  558  which  provided  for	 theapplication of the new Code to pending cases only as far  asmay  be	 and  on the principles laid down in  s.  6  of	 theGeneral	 Clauses  Act.	 That is why  that  decision  cannotassist the respondent since s. 6 of the General Clauses	 Actis inapplicable in the present case.The decision on Mukund v. Ladu (1) is also inapplicable	 forthe same reasons.  It was a case where one act was  repealedby  another and so the question as to the  applicability  ofthe provisions of the latter act had to be considered in thelight of the provisions of s. 6 of the General Clauses	Act.The  judgment  in  terms  does not refer to  s.	 6  but	 thedecision  is obviously based on the principles of  the	saidsection.Then  Mr.Umrigar  relied on Gardner v. Lucas (2).   In	thatcase  s. 39 of the Conveyancing (Scotland) Act,	 1874,	withwhich the court was dealing affected not only the  procedurebut  also  substantive rights; and so it was held  that	 thesaid  section  was  not retrospective  in  operation.	Thisdecision  is  wholly  inapplicable and cannot  give  us	 anyassistance in the present case.Mr. Umrigar also placed strong reliance on a decision of theFull  Bench  of the Punjab High Court in Ram  Singh  v.	 TheCrown (3).  That decision does lend support to Mr. Umrigar'scontention  that  the continuation of the  trial  under	 thesummons procedure did not introduce any infirmity and was infact appropriate(1) [1901] 3 Bom.  L.R. 584.  (2) [1878] 3 A.C. 582.(3) A.I.R. 1950 East Punjab 25.103and  regular.  The case against Ram Singh had been  sent  tothe  Court of Session under the provisions of s. 37  (1)  ofthe  Punjab Public Safety Act, 1948 (Punj. 2 of 1948)  at  atime when Luahiana District was declared to be a dangerouslydisturbed  area; before, however, the trial in the Court  ofSession	 actually  commenced the District ceased  to  be  a'dangerously  disturbed area.  Even so, it was held that	 theSessions  Judge	 should continue with the  trial  under	 theprovisions  of	s.  37	(1) of the Act	and  not  under	 theordinary  provisions of the Code regarding  sessions  trial,and should follow the procedure prescribed for the trial  ofsummons	 cases.	  It appears that the judgment in  the	caseproceeded  on the assumption that the principles enacted  bys.  6  of the General Clauses Act were applicable,  and	 so,since at the commencement of the proceedings the adoption ofthe  summons procedure was justified under s. 37 (1) of	 theAct, the trial could continue under the same procedure	evenafter  the  area had ceased to be  a  dangerously  disturbedarea.	In our opinion, it is erroneous to apply by  analogythe  provisions of s. 6 of the General Clauses Act to  casesgoverned by the provisions of a temporary Act when the	saidAct  does  not	contain	 the  appropriate  saving   section.Failure	 to recognise the difference between cases to  whichs. 6 of the General Clauses Act applies and those which	 aregoverned by the provisions of a temporary Act which does notcontain	 the  appropriate saving section has  introduced  aninfirmity in the reasoning adopted in the judgment.Besides, the learned judges, with respect, were in error  inholding	 that  the  application	 of  the  ordinary  criminalprocedure  was	inadmissible or impossible  after  the	areaceased	to be dangerously disturbed.  No doubt	the  learnedjudges	recognised the fact that ordinarily  the  procedurallaw  is	 retrospective in operation, but they  thought	thatthere  were some good reasons against applying the  ordinaryprocedural law to the case, and that is what influenced themin  coming to the conclusion that the summons procedure	 hadto be continued even after the area ceased to be dangerouslydisturbed.  In this connection the learned104judges	referred  to the observation in Maxwell that  "	 thegeneral principle, however, seems to be that alterations  inprocedure  are	retrospective,	unless there  be  some	goodreason against it (1) ; and they also relied on the decisionof  the Privy Council in Delhi Cloth and General Mills	Co.,Ltd.  v. Income-tax Commissioner, Delhi (2) in	which  theirLordships  have	 referred  with approval  to  their  earlierstatement  of the law in the Colonial Sugar Refining Co.  v.Irving	(3)  that " while provisions of	 a  statute  dealingmerely	with matters of procedure may properly, unless	thatconstruction  be textually inadmissible, have  retrospectiveeffect	attributed  to them".  The learned judges  took	 theview  that these principles justified their conclusion	that"where	the provisions of a statute dealing with matters  ofprocedure  are inapplicable to a certain proceeding  pendingat  the	 time  the statute came into  force,  they  must  beregarded   as  textually  inadmissible	so  far	  as   thoseproceedings  are concerned ". We are disposed to think	thatthis  view is not sound.  We do not think that the  adoptionof the ordinary warrant procedure was either inadmissible orinapplicable at the stage where the trial stood in the	caseagainst Ram Singh (4).	It was wrong to assume that the ses-sions  procedure would be inapplicable for the	reason	thatthe  provisions of the Code in regard to the  commitment  ofthe case to the Court of Session had not been complied with.With respect, the learned judges failed to consider the factthat the procedure adopted in sending the case to the  Courtof Session under s. 37(1) of the relevant Act was valid	 andthe  only  question  which  they  had  to  decide  was	whatprocedure  should be adopted after Ludhiana ceased to  be  adangerously  disturbed area.  Besides, it was really  not  acase  of retrospective operation of the procedural  law;  itwas  in fact a case where the ordinary procedure  which	 hadbecome	inapplicable  by  the provisions  of  the  temporarystatute	 became applicable as soon as the area	in  questionceased to be dangerously disturbed.(1)  Maxwell  on " Interpretation of Statutes ", 9th  Ed.,P.226.(2) [1927] 9 Lah. 284.	       (3) [1905] A.C. 369.(4) A.I.R. (1950) East Punjab 25.105In  this connection it is relevant to refer to the  decisionof this Court in Syed Qasim Razvi v. The State of  Hyderabad(1).   In  that	 case  this  Court  was	 dealing  with	 theregulation called the Special Tribunal Regulation (V of 1358Fasli)	which had been promulgated by the Military  Governorof  the Hyderabad State.  The said regulation  had  providedthat  the(  Military  Governor may, by	general	 or  specialorder,	direct that any offence or class of offences  shouldbe tried by such tribunal, and the procedure for trial	laiddown  by  it differed from the provisions of  the  HyderabadCriminal  Procedure  Code in several  material	particulars.The  cases against the accused were directed to be tried  bythe  Special Tribunal on October 6, 1949.  The accused	wereconvicted in September 1950 and their conviction on some  ofthe charges was upheld by the High Court in appeal in April,1951.	The  accused then appealed to this  Court  and	alsoapplied	 under Art. 32 of the Constitution for quashing	 theorders	of  conviction and sentence on the ground  that	 theSpecial Tribunal Regulation became void on January 26, 1950,as  its	 provisions  contravened  Arts. 14  and	 21  of	 theConstitution  which  came into force on that date,  and	 thecontinuation  of  the trial and conviction  of	the  accusedafter  that  date was illegal.	It is true  that  the  finaldecision  in  the  case, according  to	the  majority  view,proceeded on the footing that the accused had  substantiallythe  benefit of a normal trial though there were  deviationsin  certain particulars and so his conviction could  not  beset aside merely because the Constitution of India came intoforce  before  the  termination of the trial.	As  we	willpresently  point  out, the relevant facts in  this  case  inregard	to  the	 deviation from	 the  normal  procedure	 aredifferent  from	 those in Syed Qasim Razvi's case  (1),	 butthat  is another matter.  What is important for our  purposeis  the	 view expressed by this Court  that  the  regulationissued by the Military Governor of Hyderabad State could notbe  impeached and so the Special Tribunal must be deemed  tohave taken cognisance of(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 589.14106the  case quite properly and its proceedings up to the	dateof  the coming in of the Constitution would also have to  beregarded as valid.  Dealing with this point, Mukherjea,	 J.,who  delivered	the  judgment  of  the	Court,	quoted	withapproval the observations made in Lachmandas Kewalram  Ahujav. The State of Bombay(1) that ,as the Act was valid in	 itsentirety  before the date of the Constitution, that part  ofthe proceedings before the Special Judge, which, up to	thatdate  had been regulated by the special procedure cannot  bequestioned  ". Unfortunately this aspect of the	 matter	 wasnot properly placed before the Full Bench of the Punjab HighCourt  in the case of Ram Singh (2).  If the learned  judgeshad proceeded to deal with the question referred to them  onthe  basis  that the initial submission of the case  to	 theCourt  of Session under s. 37(1) of the Act was	 valid	theywould  not  have come to the conclusion	 that  the  sessionsprocedure   was	  inadmissible	or   inapplicable   to	 thecontinuation  of the case after Ludhiana had ceased to be  adangerously  disturbed area.  That is why we think that	 theview taken by the Full Bench is erroneous.The position then is that as from October 1, 1950, the threecases against the appellant should have been tried accordingto  the warrant procedure.  It is clear that, at  the  stagewhere the trial stood on the material date, the whole of theprosecution  evidence had not been led and so there  was  nodifficulty  in framing charges against the appellant in	 therespective cases and thereafter continuing the trial accord-ing  to the warrant procedure.	Having regard to the  natureof  the	 charges  framed and the  character  and  volume  ofevidence  led,	it is difficult to  resist  the	 appellant'sargument  that	the  failure to frame charges  has-  led  toprejudice;  and	 it  is	 not  at  all  easy  to	 accept	 therespondent's  contention  that	the  double  opportunity  tocross-examine  the prosecution witnesses which is  availableto  an accused person under the warrant procedure is  not  amatter	of  substantive and valuable benefit  to  him.	 Thedenial of this opportunity must,(1) [1952] S.C.R. 710, 731,(2) A.I.R. 1950 East Punjab 25.107in  the circumstances of the present cases, be held to	havecaused prejudice to him.  We must accordingly hold that	 thecontinuation  of  the trial of the three cases	against	 theappellant  according to the summons procedure subsequent  toOctober 1, 1950, has vitiated the trial and has rendered thefinal  orders of conviction and sentence invalid.   We	mustaccordingly set aside the orders of conviction and  sentencepassed against the appellant in all the three cases.That  takes us to the question as to the final	order  whichshould be passed in the present appeals.  The offences	withwhich  the appellant stands charged are of a  very  serious,nature; and though it is true that he has had to undergo theordeal of a trial and has suffered rigorous imprisonment forsome  time that would not justify his prayer that we  shouldnot order his retrial.	In our opinion, having regard to thegravity	 of the offences charged against the appellant,	 theends of justice require that we should direct that he shouldbe tried for the said offences de novo according to law.  Wealso  direct  that the proceedings to be taken	against	 theappellant  hereafter should be commenced without  delay	 andshould be disposed of as expeditiously as possible.				 Appeal allowed.				 Retrial ordered.