PETITIONER:A.   S. T. ARUNACHALAM PILLAI	Vs.RESPONDENT:M/S.  SOUTHERN ROADWAYS (PRIVATE) LTD.DATE OF JUDGMENT:29/04/1960BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERSINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)SARKAR, A.K.SUBBARAO, K.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1191 CITATOR INFO : R	    1963 SC  64	 (7)ACT:Motor	Vehicles-Stage	carriage  Permits,   variation	 of-jurisdiction	of    Regional	  Transport    Officer-StateGovernment's  Power of revision-Motor Vehicles Act, 1939  (4Of 1939), as amended by the Madras Act, 20 Of 1948, ss. 44A,64A.HEADNOTE:The  question  for decision in this appeal was	whether	 theRegional  Transport  Officer under the Motor  Vehicles	Act,1939,  as amended by the Madras State Legislature,  had	 thepower  to vary the terms of a stage carriage permit  grantedunder  that Act.  The appellant, holder of a stage  carriagepermit, applied on July 19, 1954, to the Regional  TransportOfficer	 for  a	 variation of the  route  specified  in	 hispermit.	  The  Regional	 Officer  after	 hearing  objectionsrejected  the  application.  The appellant  applied  to	 theState  Government for revision of the order under s. 64A  ofthe  Act  and the Government after  hearing  objections	 setaside  the  order  of the  Regional  Transport	Officer	 andgranted variation of the permit as sought for.	Against thisorder the respondent moved the Madras High Court under	Art.226  of	 the Constitution.  The Single judge who  heard	 thematter,	 following  a decision of a Division Bench  of	thatCourt,	held  that  the Regional Transport  Officer  had  nojurisdiction  to deal with the appellant's  application	 andthe  State  Government for that very reason  could  have  nopower in revision to grant the same, and set aside the orderof the Madras Government:Held (per Sinha, C. J., Imam, Sarkar and Shah, jj.). Section64A  of the Motor Vehicles Act, introduced into the  Act  bythe  Madras Legislature, although couched in wide  language,does  not  confer  on  the  State  Government  any  originaljurisdiction  or authorise it to pass in revision  an  orderwhich the authority, whose order it seeks to revise, has  nojurisdiction to pass.  While undoubtedly it can set aside anorder of. an authority or officer765subordinate to it passed without jurisdiction under Ch.	  IVof  the Act, it cannot substitute its own order directing  avariation  of  the  stage  carriage  permit  granted  to   aparticular  person.  Sections 43 and 48 of the Act  make  itquite  clear that no such authority is vested in  the  StateGovernment and the words " as it thinks fit " in s. 64A mustmean within the ambit of the provisions of the Act.The words " any officer subordinate to him " used in s.	 44Aof  the Act, as amended by the Madras State Legislature	 areof wide import and cannot be given a restricted meaning	 andmust  include  an  officer in any  way	subordinate  to	 theTransport Commissioner.The  Regional  Transport  Officer  who	was  admittedly	 andwithout doubt administratively subordinate to the  TransportCommissioner by virtue of the Madras Government notificationdated  February	 14, 1953, at the time the  application	 wasmade  and  was	duly  authorised in  this  behalf,  had	 thejurisdiction to vary the conditions of the permit issued  tothe appellant.Section	 44A of the Act did not depend for its operation  onany  rules to be framed under s. 133A of the Act, which	 wasmerely an enabling section, by the Government.Consequently,  there can be no doubt that the State  Govern-ment had the power under s. 64A of the Act to vary the termsof  the	 permit	 which the Regional  Transport	Officer	 hadrefused to do.B.   Veeraswamy v. State of Andhra Pradesh, A.I.R. 1959 And.Pradesh 413, approved.T.   Krishnaswamy  Mudaliar v. P. S. Palani  Pillai,  A.I.R.1957 Mad. 599, disapproved.Per Subba Rao, J.-Section 44A of the Act does not  authorisethe State Government to appoint subordinate officers to	 theTransport  Commissioner	 but  only  enables  it	 to   conferstatutory powers on officers subordinate to him.  The  StateGovernment has made no rules under s. 133A of the Act makingthe   Regional	 Transport  Officer   subordinate   to	 thecommissioner.  It is, therefore, manifest that neither underthe  statute  nor  under any rules made	 thereunder  is	 theRegional  Transport Officer subordinate to the	Commissionerin any way within the meaning Of s. 44A of the Act.Even  assuming	that the State	Government  administrativelytreated	 the Regional Transport Officer as a subordinate  tothe Transport Commissioner and the word 'may' in s. 133A  ofthe  Act  conferred a discretionary power on  it  either  toframe  rules  or not to do so, it is wrong to  say  that  itcould  do  administratively what it was empowered to  do  byrules.	 If  the  Government really  intended  to  make	 theRegional   Transport  Officer  subordinate  to	 the   StateTransport Commissioner, the only way in which it could do sowas by framing a rule under s. 133A(3) of the Act.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No. 262 of 1958.100766Appeal	from the judgment and order dated July 17, 1957,  ofthe  Madras  High  Court, in Writ Appeal No.  110  of  1956,arising	 out  of the judgment and order dated  September  3,1956, of the said High Court in Writ Petition No. 2/1956.M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General of India, S.N. Andley, J.B.  Dadachanji,	 Rameshwar  Nath and P. L.  Vohra,  for	 theappellant.R.Ganapathy Iyer, N. R. Govindachari and G.  Gopalakrishnan,for respondent No. 1.1960.  April 29.  The Judgment of Sinha, C. J.,	 Imam,Sarkarand  Shah,  JJ., was delivered by Imam, J., Subba  Rao,	 J.,delivered a separate Judgment.IMAM,  J.-This	appeal is on a certificate  granted  by	 theMadras	 High  Court  as  in  its  opinion  it	involved   asubstantial  question  of law to the effect  "	whether	 thedelegation to the Regional Transport Officer of the power tovary the conditions of a permit is valid ". The appellant isthe   proprietor  of  Sri  Vinayagar  Transports,   Woriyur,Tiruchirapalli.	  He  held a permit to ply his	bus  on	 theroute	Tiruchirapalli	Mainguard  Gate	 to   TiruchirapalliRailway Station via Palakarai and Round Tana.  He applied onJuly   19,   1954,  to	the  Regional	Transport   Officer,Tiruchirapalli, for variation of the route so as to ply	 hisbus  between Mainguard Gate and Golden Rock  via  Palakarai,Round Tana, Tiruchirapalli Railway Station and retrace againto  Round  Tana	 and thence to Golden  Rock.   The  RegionalTransport  Officer notified this application  for  variationand called for objections.  The appellant's application	 andthe objections thereon were heard on July 15, 1955, but	 theRegional  Transport Officer rejected the  application.	 Theappellant filed a Revision Petition before the Government ofMadras	under s. 64A of the Motor Vehicles Act,	 hereinaftercalled the Act, s. 64A having been introduced into that	 Actby  the	 Legislature  of the State of  Madras.	 The  MadrasGovernment  after  having heard objections to  the  RevisionPetition,  by its order dated December 28, 1955,  set  asidethe order of the Regional Transport Officer and directed thegrant  of  the variation in the permit of the  appellant  asprayed	for  by	 him.	Against the,  order  of	 the  MadrasGovernment the respondent,767the Southern Roadways (Private) Ltd., hereinafter called therespondent,  filed  a  petition	 under	Art.  226,  of	 theConstitution  in the Madras High Court on January  2,  1956,for the issue of a writ of certiorari to quash the order  ofthe Government of Madras.When  the petition came up for hearing	before	Rajagopalan,J., the respondent raised a plea which was not taken in	 thepetition  under Art. 226 of the Constitution to	 the  effectthat  the Regional Transport Officer had no jurisdiction  togrant  the  variation  asked for by the	 appellant  and	 theGovernment  had	 likewise  no  jurisdiction  to	 grant,	  inrevision, what the Regional Transport Officer himself  couldnot  have  granted.   This plea was made  on  account  of  aDivision  Bench	 decision of the Madras High Court  in	WritAppeal	No. 107 of 1955, arrived at since the filing of	 thepetition,  wherein it was held that the	 Regional  TransportOfficer had no jurisdiction to deal with an application	 forvariation  of the conditions of a permit.  Rajagopalan,	 J.,following  the decision in Writ Appeal No. 107 of 1955	heldthat  the Regional Transport Officer had no jurisdiction  todeal with the appellant's application for variation and thatit  followed  that the Government of Madras had	 equally  nojurisdiction  to grant the variation on a revision  petitionfiled  against the order of the Regional Transport  Officer.The  learned  Judge accordingly set aside the order  of	 theGovernment of Madras dated December 28, 1955, without  goinginto  the other contentions raised by the respondent in	 itspetition under Art. 226.  The appellant appealed against thedecision  of  Rajagopalan,  J. Although in  the	 appeal	 thecorrectness  of the decision in Writ Appeal No. 107 of	1955was questioned it was not pressed because of the decision ofthe Full Bench of the Madras High Court in Writ Appeals Nos.56  and 57 of 1956 decided on April 12, 1957.  The  argumentin the present case therefore proceeded on the footing	thatthe  Regional  Transport  Officer,  Tiruchirapalli,  had  nojurisdiction  to deal with the appellant's  application	 forvariation.In  the High Court on behalf of the appellant it  was  urgedthat  the respondents had submitted to the  jurisdiction  ofthe Regional Transport Officer and768therefore  could  not at a later stage	obtain	the  discre-tionary writ of certiorari on the ground that there was lackof  jurisdiction.   It was next contended that even  if	 theRegional Transport Officer bad no jurisdiction to deal	withthe  appellant's application for variation the order of	 theGovernment  of Madras which was sought to be  quashed  couldnot  be	 said to be one passed without	jurisdiction  or  inexcess	 of   jurisdiction  because   the   Government	 hadundoubtedly power to pass the order in question under s. 64Aof  the Act.  Both these contentions were rejected  and	 thedecision of Rajagopalan, J., was affirmed.  The High  Court,however,  granted a certificate that the case was a fit	 onefor appeal to this Court.The  principal question for consideration in this appeal  iswhether the Regional Transport Officer had the power to varythe  conditions	 of a permit to ply a  stage  carriage.	  Inorder  to decide that question some sections of the Act,  asamended	 by  the Legislature of the State  of  Madras,	willrequire	 consideration,	 particularly the provisions  of  s.44A.   But  before  we	proceed to do  that  the  other	 twoquestions  which were decided against the appellant  by	 theHigh Court may first be considered.In our opinion, although the respondent had submitted to thejurisdiction  of the Regional Transport Officer and had	 notin  his petition under Art. 226 in the High Court taken	 theobjection  that	 officer  had no jurisdiction  to  vary	 theconditions  of	a permit, the High Court  acted	 rightly  inallowing the respondent to urge that the Regional  TransportOfficer	 had  no jurisdiction to vary the  conditions  of  apermit.	 It was not until the decision of the High Court  inWrit  Appeal No. 107 of 1955 that it became  the  consideredview  of that Court that the Regional Transport Officer	 badno  jurisdiction to make any such variation.  When  the	 lawwas so declared by the High Court it could not reasonably besaid that the High Court erred in allowing the respondent totake this point although in its petition under Art. 226	 thepoint  had not been taken.  This was obviously	because	 thedecision  of the High Court in Writ Appeal No. 107  of	1955had  not  been	given  at the time  of	the  filing  of	 thepetition,769Since  the  question went to the root of the matter  and  itinvolved the question whether the Regional Transport Officerhad jurisdiction to vary the conditions of a permit the HighCourt,	faced with a Division Bench decision of its  own  onthe  matter,  could not very well refuse permission  to	 therespondent  to	rely  on that decision	in  support  of	 itspetition  questioning  the  validity of	 the  order  of	 theGovernment of Madras made under s. 64A of the Act.It had been strongly urged in this Court on behalf of  theappellant that on a proper construction of s.	  64A of theAct  there  was ample power in the Government of  Madras  tomake  an  order	 directing  the	 variation  sought  in	 theconditions  of the permit of the appellant, even though	 theRegional  Transport  Officer had no jurisdiction to  do	 so.Section 64A empowered the Government of Madras to pass	suchorders as it thought fit with respect to any order passed orproceedings  taken  under  Chapter  IV of  the	Act  by	 anyauthority  or officer subordinate to it for the	 purpose  ofsatisfying  itself of the legality, regularity or  proprietyof  the	 order	or proceeding, when it had  called  for	 therecords	 of  the case.	In our opinion, s. 64A	is  a  powervested in the State Government by way of revision of  orderspassed	under  Chapter	IV of the Act by  any  authority  orofficer	 subordinate to it.  This is not a power  which	 theState Government could exercise by way of original jurisdic-tion  which was vested elsewhere.  In our opinion,  althoughthe  words " may pass such order in reference thereto as  itthinks	fit " are wide in expression, they do not mean	thatthe  State  Government could pass an order  in	exercise  ofrevisional jurisdiction which the authority whose order	 theGovernment  was revising had no jurisdiction to	 pass.	 TheState Government could undoubtedly set aside an order of  anauthority   or	officer	 subordinate  to  it  who   had	  nojurisdiction to pass the order in question under Chapter  IVbut  it	 could not substitute for that order its  own  orderdirecting  the variation in the conditions of the permit  ofthe  appellant.	  It is significant that s. 43	which  dealswith the power of the State Government to control770Road  Transport does not mention that such a Government	 hasthe  power to vary the conditions of a permit, although	 thevarious	  powers  conferred  by	 that  section	 are   fullyspecified,  including  the power to  vary  the	notificationissued	under the section.  If the Act had intended to	givethe power to the State Government to vary the conditions  ofa  stage carriage permit granted to a particular  person  itwould  have  specified such a power in	this  section.	 Theauthority  which  is empowered to vary the conditions  of  apermit is stated in s. 48A which certainly is not the  StateGovernment.  Under the Act, therefore, no such authority wasvested in the State Government and the words in s. 64A "  asit thinks fit " must mean within the ambit of the provisionsof the Act.Coming	now to the question whether the	 Regional  TransportOfficer	 had the power to vary the conditions of the  permitof the appellant it would be necessary to construe s. 44A ofthe  Act.  Before we proceed to do so, reference to  certainsections of the Act and the Rules framed thereunder would benecessary  as  well as certain relevant facts.	 Section  42prohibits the owner of a transport vehicle to use or  permitits use, save in accordance with the conditions of a  permitgranted or counter-signed by a Regional or Provincial Trans-port  Authority.  Reference to s. 43 has already  been	madewhich  deals  with  the power of  the  State  Government  tocontrol	 road  transport.  Section 43A	empowers  the  StateGovernment to issue such orders and directions of a  generalcharacter  as  it may consider necessary in respect  of	 anymatter	relating  to road transport to the  State  TransportAuthority or Regional Transport Authority and such Authorityshall  give  effect  to	 all  such  orders  and	 directions.Section 44 empowers the State Government by notification  inthe Official Gazette to constitute a State Transport  Autho-rity  and  Regional  Transport Authorities,  the  former  toexercise and discharge the functions specified in sub-s. (3)and the latter to exercise powers as may be specified in thenotification   in   respect  of	 each	Regional   TransportAuthority.  Section 44A which is incorporated by the  MadrasAmending Act reads:771"  The	State  Government  may	appoint	 a  State  TransportCommissioner and notwithstanding anything contained in	thisAct,  may, by notification in the Fort St.  George  Gazette,authorize  such Commissioner or any officer  subordinate  tohim,  to  exercise  and	 discharge  in	lieu  of  any  otherauthority  prescribed by or tinder this Act such powers	 andfunctions as may be specified in the notification ".Section 45 deals with applications for a permit and  directsthat they shall be made to the Regional Transport  Authorityof  the region in which it is proposed to use  the  vehicle.Section	 46 states the matters which shall be stated in	 theapplication for a permit.  Section 47 provides the procedureto  be	observed  by  a	 Regional  Transport  Authority	  inconsidering   applications  for	 stage	 carriage   permits.Section	 48  empowers  a  Regional  Transport  Authority  torestrict the number of stage carriages for which permits maybe granted in the region or in any specified area or on	 anyspecified  route within the region and to impose  conditionson  such permits.  One of these conditions is  contained  incl. (d)(ii-a) which is to the effect that stage carriage  orstage carriages shall be used only on specified routes or ina  specified area.  Section 48A provides for the  alterationof the conditions attached to a permit and reads:"  Any	conditions attached to a stage	carriage  permit  inpursuance  of  cl. (d) of s. 48 may at any time	 be  varied,cancelled  or  added to by the	State  Transport  Authority,provided  that	this  power shall not be  exercised  to	 theprejudice  of  the holder of the permit without	 giving	 notless than three months' notice to him."Section	 133A(1)  authorises the State	Government  for	 thepurpose of carrying into effect the provisions of the Act toestablish  a  Motor Vehicles Department and  to	 appoint  asofficers thereof such persons as it thinks fit.	 Sub-s.	 (3)authorises  the State Government to make rules	to  regulatethe  discharge by officers of the Motor Vehicles  Departmentof  their functions and in particular and without  prejudiceto  the generality of the foregoing power to  prescribe	 theuniform to be772worn  by  them, the authorities to which they shall  be	 subordinate,  the	duties to be performed by them,	 the  powers(including  the powers exercisable by police officers  underthe  Act)  to  be  exercised  by  them	and  the  conditionsgoverning  the exercise of such powers.	 No rules, in  fact,had been framed.It  will  be seen from what has been stated that it  is	 theState  Transport Authority and no other which is  authorisedunder  s. 48A to vary the conditions of a permit of a  stagecarriage.   Section  44A,.  however,  authorises  the  StateGovernment  to appoint a State Transport  Commissioner.	  Itfurther provides that notwithstanding anything contained  inthe  Act the State Government may by notification  authorisethe State Transport Commissioner or any officer	 subordinateto  him	 to  exercise and discharge in	lieu  of  any  otherauthority  prescribed  by or under the Act such	 powers	 andfunctions as may be specified in the notification.  By	thissection,  although  under s. 48A it is the  State  TransportAuthority Which can vary the conditions of a stage  carriagepermit,	 the  State Government	could,	notwithstanding	 theprovisions  of that section, authorise the  State  TransportCommissioner  to exercise such powers in lieu of  the  StateTransport Authority.  It could also confer such power on  anofficer	 subordinate  to the State  Transport  Commissioner.The vital question for determination is, how are the words "any  officer subordinate to him " to be construed.  In	con-struing	 these words the provisions of s. 133A will have  tobe  kept  in  mind  as it was contended	 on  behalf  of	 therespondent that these sections should be read together.	  Itwas urged on behalf of the respondent that under s. 133A (3)as  to	who was subordinate to whom in	the  Motor  VehiclesDepartment  had to be prescribed by rules.  As no rules	 hadbeen framed it could not be said that the Regional TransportOfficer was subordinate to the State Transport Commissioner.The  Full Bench of the Madras High Court in the case  of  T.Krishnaswamy  Mudaliar	v.  P.	S.  Palani  Pillai  (1)	 hadoccasion  to consider whether a Regional  Transport  Officerwas subordinate to the State Transport Commissioner for	 thepurposes of the Act.  Three(1)  A.I.R. 1957 Mad. 599.773views  were  pressed before it.	 The first view,  which	 wasfavoured  by  a	 Division Bench of that Court,	was  to	 theeffect	that  the  word	 'subordinate' in  s.  44A  meant  "administrative	subordination  ".  The	seconds,,  view	 waspressed by the Advocate-General of Madras who had urged thatthe  word  'subordinate' in the	 section  meant	 "functionalsubordination" and the third view was pressed by Mr. Nambiarto the effect that the word 'subordinate' meant "  statutorysubordination ". It was the third view which was accepted bythe  Full Bench and the High Court expressed its opinion  inthe following words:-"  Of  the three views placed before us we are	inclined  toprefer the third.  It appears to us to be the most  rationaland the most free from objections.  It is in accord with allwell  established rules of interpretation of  Statutes.	  Itdoes not require as the theory of 'functional subordination'seems  to  require, the introduction of now words  into	 thesection.  It has the merit of being more flexible of  powersnot  merely  at the State level but at	the  regional  levelalso.	It  ensures  that  there  will	be  no	transfer  ordelegation of powers except to officers whose  subordinationhas been determined by rules properly framed under the	Act.It also ought to avoid the anomaly that has now occurred  ofa person in the position of a Secretary of a body being	 em-powered	 to vary the condition of a permit granted  by	thatbody.  We therefore adopt this view."The  High  Court  in rejecting the  view  submitted  by	 theAdvocate-General  observed  that there	were  no  qualifyingwords whatever to the word 'subordinate' in s. 44A.The Full Bench decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court  inthe case of B. Veeraswamy v. State Of Andhra Pradesh (1) didnot  agree with the Full Bench decision of the	Madras	HighCourt.	 The  Andhra Pradesh High Court was of	the  opinionthat   the  Regional  Transport	 Officer  was	an   officersubordinate to the Transport Commissioner within the meaningof s. 44A of the Act.  It laid emphasis on the word " any  "and observed that word excluded limitation or(1) A.I.R. 1959 And.  Pradesh 413.774qualification and connoted wide generality.  It comprehendednot  only  the officer whose subordination  was	 statutorilydetermined,  but  all  eligible	 subordinate   officers	 andtherefore  the	Regional Transport Officer came	 within	 theambit of the expression " any officer subordinate " used  ins. 44A.	 Having examined the reasons given in the  decisionsof  the	 Full Bench of the Madras High Court  and  the	FullBench  of the Andhra Pradesh High Court we are generally  inagreement  with	 the view taken by the Andhra  Pradesh	HighCourt for the reasons which we now proceed to state.We  have  not on the record any material to  show  when	 theMadras	Government appointed a State Transport	Commissionernor have we any notification in the Fort St. George  Gazetteas  to what powers he or an officer subordinate to  him	 wasauthorized  to exercise and discharge in lieu of  any  otherauthority  prescribed by or under the Act.  The Madras	RoadTraffic	 Code  of  1940	 shows that on	May  21,  1947,	 theGovernor  of  Madras  constituted  a  Provincial   TransportAuthority  for	the Province (now the State)  of  Madras,  aRegional  Transport Authority for the district and  city  ofMadras	and a Regional Transport Authority for each  of	 theother  districts in the Province (now the State) of  Madras.This  Code  also contains the Madras Motor  Vehicles  Rules,1940,  hereinafter  called the Rules.  The Rules  came	intoforce  on  April 1, 1940.  Under Rule 3(c)  "  Central	RoadTraffic	 Board	" or "Central Board"  means  the  ProvincialTransport  Authority  constituted for the  State  of  Madrasunder  sub-s.  (1)  of B. 44 of the  Act.   This  definitionobviously  must	 have been inserted in the Rules  after	 theconstitution  of the Provincial Transport Authority  in	 theyear  1947.  This definition was again altered	on  December2O,  1955, and for the words " Central Road Traffic Board  "or " Central Board " the words " State Transport Authority "was substituted.  On the same date a further definition	 wasadded  to  the Rules by the insertion of cl. (m) in  Rule  3which was to the effect that " Transport Department "  meansthe  Motor Vehicles Department set up under s. 133A  of	 theAct.  The Government of Madras issued a Notification No.  G.0. MS. 527 on February 14, 1953, wherein it was stated	thatprior775to  the decision of the Madras High Court in  Writ  PetitionNo.  806  of 1951 the Regional	Transport  Authorities	werevarying	 whenever  necessary  all  the	conditions  of	 thepermits, but according to the decision of the High Court  inthat  petition the Regional Transport Authorities could	 notvary  the  existing conditions of a  stage  carriage  permitimposed	 under s. 48(d) of the Act and that it was only	 theState Transport Authority which could do so under s. 48A  ofthe  Act.  The decision of the High Court resulted in  greatadministrative	 inconvenience	as  all	  applications	 forvariation of conditions of permit would have now to be	madeto  the State Transport Authority which involved  delay	 andinconvenience  to  operators.  It further  stated  that	 theGovernment  of India had under consideration a	proposal  toamend  s.  48  of  the Act so as  to  empower  the  RegionalTransport Authorities to vary all conditions of permits, butsome  time  would  be  taken  to  carry	 out  the  necessarylegislation.   Pending	the legislation	 the  Government  ofMadras	had decided to empower Regional Transport  Officers,as  a temporary measure, to vary conditions of	permits	 nowdealt	with   by  the	State  Transport   Authority.	 Thenotification further went on to say that in exercise of	 thepowers conferred by s. 44A of the Act the Governor of Madrasauthorized   the   Regional  Transport	Officers   and	 theSecretary,  Road  Traffic  Board, Madras,  to  exercise	 thepowers	and discharge the functions of the  State  TransportAuthority under s. 48A, 51A and 56A of the Act.	 On  October20,1955, the Government of Madras issued a further notifica-tion  reorganizing  the	 Motor	Transport  Department	withreference to the Motor Vehicles (Madras Amendment) Act, 1944(Act  XXXIX  of	 1944).	 According to  this  notification  aMember	of  the	 Board of Revenue  should  be  appointed  asTransport  Commissioner	 under	s. 44A of the  Act  and	 thepresent post of Transport Commissioner should be  abolished;that  an  officer  of the  Transport  Department  should  beappointed as State Transport Authority who will also be	 theAssistant   Transport	Commissioner;  that  the   post	  ofSecretary,  Central  Road  Traffic  Board,  should  be	 re.designated as Secretary, State Transport Authority776that  Collectors  of  districts	 in  the  mofussil  and	 theCommissioner  of  Police  in the City of  Madras  should  beappointed as Regional Transport Authorities under  s. 44  ofthe  Act;  that	 the  Regional	Transport  Officers  in	 themofussil  and the Deputy Commissioner of Police	 (Traffic  &Licensing)  in the Madras City should be the Secretaries  tothe  Regional Transport Authorities and that an	 officer  ofthe grade of a District Judge should be appellate  authorityprescribed  under s. 64(1) of the Act, as amended,  to	dealwith  appeals against the orders of the	 Regional  TransportAuthorities  and  be  designated  as  the  State   TransportAppellate  Tribunal.  Under cl. (2) of the notification	 theMember of the Board of Revenue to be appointed as  TransportCommissioner  would be the Head of the Transport  Departmentand would have general responsibility for administration  ofthe  Act.  He would be empowered by the Government under  s.44A  to	 exercise  the powers now  exercised  by  the  StateTransport Authority under sub-ss. 3(a) and (c) and (4) of s.44  of	the Act.  In the discharge of  these  functions	 theTransport Commissioner will have administrative control overthe  Organisation  at present working  under  the  TransportCommissioner.  Under cl. (4) (ii) the powers under ss.	48A,51  A  and 56A of the Act to alter the conditions  of  stagecarriage  permits,  contract  carriage	permits	 and  publiccarriers  permits,  exercised  by  the	Regional   TransportOfficers,  would  hereafter  be exercised  by  the  RegionalTransport   Authorities.   Under  cl.  5(1)   the   RegionalTransport  Officer  would be the Secretary to  the  RegionalTransport  Authority and ,in that capacity he  would  assistthe  Regional Transport Authority in the performance of	 thefunctions  prescribed  in cl. (4).  It is,  however,  to  beremembered that when on July 19, 1954, the appellant appliedto the Regional Transport Authority for the variation of theconditions of his permit, the Notification No. G.O. MS.	 527dated February 14, 1953, of the Government of Madras was  inforce  by virtue of which Regional Transport  Officers	wereauthorised   to	 discharge  the,  functions  of	 the   StateTransport Authority under ss. 48A, 51 A and 56A of the Act.777In  paragraph  6 of the statement of the case filed  by	 therespondent  it	was stated that in the exercise Of  A,'	 thepowers conferred under s. 44(1) of the Act the Government ofMadras	constituted  Provincial and  so	 Regional  TransportAuthorities.   It also set up a Motor  Transport  Departmentwith  a Transport Commissioner as its head and	officers  inthat  Department,  in  the lower scale,	 were  the  RegionalTransport Officers who functioned as the Secretaries of	 therespective  Regional Transport Authorities called  the	RoadTraffic	 Board.	 It was further stated in paragraph  7	thatalthough  a Regional Transport Officer was a subordinate  ofthe  Transport	Commissioner on the administrative  side  hecould  not  be held to be a subordinate officer	 within	 themeaning	 of  s. 44A.  The State Government may	establish  aMotor Vehicles Department and appoint officers thereto unders. 133A, but mere appointment of officers in that Departmentcould  not  invest  them  with	statutory  functions  to  bedischarged under the Act and under the Rules.  Section	133Acontemplates  framing of rules to regulate the discharge  byofficers  of  the department of their functions as  also  tostate  the  authorities	 to  whom  such	 officers  shall  besubordinate  and the duties to be per. formed by  them.	  Itwas  not suggested that any duties or powers of a  statutorynature	had been vested in the Transport  Commissioner;	 norwas  there  any	 rule showing that  the	 Regional  TransportOfficer	 is a subordinate of the Transport Commissioner	 forthe  purposes  of  the Rules.  The  statement  of  the	casefurther	  stated   that	 s.  44A   required   a	  functionalsubordination and not merely an administrative one.The  Madras Financial Code, Vol. 11, Appendix 1,  shows	 thelist  of Heads of Departments of the Government	 of  Madras.The  Transport	Commissioner  is  shown as  the	 Read  of  aDepartment.   The Half-Yearly List of Gazetted	Officers  inthe  Transport Department corrected upto the 31st  of  July,1955,  shows  that the Transport Commissioner  is  also	 theChair.	man, Central Road Traffic Board, Madras, and  subor-dinate to him are the Secretary, Central Road Traffic Board,Madras, Assistant Secretary, Road Traffic Board, Madras	 andRegional Transport Officers.778There  can  be	no  question  therefore	 that  the  RegionalTransport Officers are officers subordinate to the TransportCommissioner.	It  is perhaps for this reason	   that	 therespondent  admits  that the  Regional	Transport  Officers,administratively,   are	  subordinate	to   the   TransportCommissioner.	Section	 44A  speaks merely  of	 an  officersubordinate  to	 the  Transport	 Commissioner  to  whom	  bynotification  the  Government  of  Madras  may	confer	 theauthority  in lieu of any other authority prescribed  by  orunder the Act to discharge the powers and functions of	thatauthority.   It was, however, argued that until	 rules	wereframed under s. 133A specifying as to who is subordinate  towhich  authority  for  the  purposes  of  the  Act  and	 thestatutory   functions  to  be  performed  under	  the	Act,administrative	subordination  is not what  is	contemplatedunder s. 44A.  On the other hand, on behalf of the appellantit has been urged that effect must be given to the words  ofs. 44A which did not in tile least indicate in what way	 theofficer has to be subordinate to the Transport Commissioner.It  was	 worthy of notice that s. 44A authorized  the  StateGovernment,  notwithstanding anything contained in the	Act,to  authorize  any  officer  subordinate  to  the  TransportCommissioner to exercise and discharge in lieu of any  otherauthority  such powers and functions as may be exercised  bythat  authority.  The section did not depend upon any  rulesto  be	framed under s. 133A.  Furthermore, s. 133A  was  anenabling section by which a State Government could, if it sowished,	 for  the  purpose,  of	 carrying  into	 effect	 thepurposes  of the Act establish a Motor Vehicles	 Department.Until  such  a Department was established  the	question  offraming rules under the section did not arise.There  is no clear material on the record or in	 the  MadrasRoad Traffic Code from which it can be ascertained preciselyas  to	when  the  Madras  Government  established  a  MotorVehicles  Department.	It  is significant,  however,  by  anotification  dated December 20, 1955, cl. (m) was added  toRule  3	 of  the  Rules and this  stated  that	"  TransportDepartment  "  means the Motor Vehicles	 Department  set  upunder s. 133A779of   the  Act.	 Apparently,  until  this   date   TransportDepartment  was	 something  other than	the  Motor  VehiclesDepartment  set up under s. 133A of the Act.  It  is  clear,therefore, that on February 14, 1953, when the	NotificationG.O. MS.  No. 527 was issued by the Government of Madras theRegional Transport Officers were officers subordinate to theTransport Commissioner.	 Even if at some time or the other aMotor Vehicles Department had been set up by the  Governmentof Madras admittedly the Government of Madras bad framed  norules  Linder  s. 133A(3).  If rules had been  framed  underthat  section  and they showed that the	 Regional  TransportOfficers were not subordinate to the Transport	Commissionerthen a question might well have arisen as to how the words "any  Officer subordinate to him " should be construed  owingto  a conflict between the Regional Transport officer  beingadministratively  subordinate to the Transport	Commissionerand yet not subordinate to him by virtue of the rules framedunder  s. 133A.	 Since, however, no rules have	been  framedunder  this  section,  so far as s. 44A	 is  concerned,	 anyofficer who is subordinate to the Transport Commissioner  inany way must include the Regional Transport Officers in	 theTransport  Department.	 The words of the section  are	wideenough	for  this interpretation and they are  incapable  ofbeing  given the restricted meaning suggested on  behalf  ofthe  respondent.  It was, however, suggested that  anomaliesmay  occur  if	s. 44A is construed  so	 widely,  because  aRegional  Transport  Officer was a Secretary of	 a  RegionalTransport  Authority  and  therefore  subordinate  to	thatauthority  and	yet  he	 could	be  empowered  to  vary	 theconditions of a permit which the State Transport  Authority,to  which the Regional Transport Authority  is	subordinate,may  have declined to do.  In the matter  of  interpretationsuch  considerations cannot be of much assistance.   If	 thewords  of  s.  44A  are wide  enough  to  mean	any  officersubordinate to the Transport Commissioner they must be giveneffect	to.  In the matter of interpretation a	Court  couldnot,  if the words were plain enough, proceed on  the  basisthat  possibly	the  Government of  Madras  may	 misuse	 itspowers,780We  accordingly	 hold that the Regional	 Transport  Officer,Tiruchirapalli, had jurisdiction to vary the conditions of apermit by virtue of the power conferred Y.   on	 him by	 theNotification  No. G.O. MS. 527 issued by the  Government  ofMadras.	  Consequently, that Government had the power  unders. 64A to do that which the Regional Transport Officer couldhave done but had refused to do.In our opinion, the appeal must be allowed and the judgmentsof  the single Judge and Appellate Court of the	 High  Courtmust  be set aside and the case remanded to the	 High  Courtfor  the rehearing of the writ petition by the single  Judgeas several questions which were raised in that petition havenot been decided by him.  He had allowed the petition solelyon the ground that the decision of the Government of  Madrasmust  be set aside as the Regional Transport Officer had  nojurisdiction  to vary the conditions of the permit and	thatbeing  so  the Government of Madras could not make  such  anorder  in the exercise of its revisional jurisdiction.	 Thecase  will  accordingly	 go back to  the  single  Judge	 fordecision  on  the other points raised in the  writ  petitionfiled by the respondent.The appellant is entitled to his costs of this appeal.The costs in the High Court will abide the result.SUBBA  RAO,  J.-I  have had the advantage  of  perusing	 thejudgment  of  my  learned  brother, Imam,  J.  I  regret  myinability  to agree with him in regard to the main  questionraised	in the case, namely, whether the Regional  TransportOfficer	 is subordinate to the State Transport	Commissionerwithin the meaning of s. 44A of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939(4 of 1939)(hereinafter referred to as the Act).  The  factsare fully stated by my learned brother and it is not  neces-sary to restate them here.Section 44A was inserted in the Act by the Madras Act 20  of1948 and it reads:"  The	State  Government  may	appoint	 a  State  TransportCommissioner, and notwithstanding anything contained in thisAct,  may, by notification in the Fort St.  George  Gazette,authorize  such Commissioner or any officer  subordinate  tohim, to exercise781and  discharge in lieu of any other authority prescribed  byor  under  this	 Act, such powers and functions	 as  may  bespecified in the notification."This section empowers the State Government to appoint only aState  Transport Commissioner and does not confer any  poweron it to appoint any officer subordinate to him; that  powermust  be  found	 elsewhere  in the Act	or  the	 rules	madethereunder.   This  section also does not enable  the  StateGovernment to confer any powers on or entrust any  functionsto,  the said Commissioner other than those  exercisable  byany authority under the Act.  On the interpretation of	thisprovision  there  is a conflict of views  between  the	fullbench  decision of the Madras High Court in T.	KrishnaswamyMudaliar  v.  P.  S. Palani Pillai (1) and  the	 full  benchdecision  of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in B.  Veeraswamyv.  State  of  Andhra  Pradesh (2).   In  the  former  case,Balakrishna Ayyar, J., delivering the judgment of the Court,summarized his views thus at p. 602:"  Of  the three views placed before us we are	inclined  toprefer	the third (statutory subordination).  It appears  tous  to	be  the	 most  rational	 and  the  most	 free	fromobjections.  It is in accord with all well established rulesof  interpretation of Statutes.	 It does not require as	 thetheory of " functional subordination " seems to require, theintroduction  of  new words into the section.	It  has	 themerit of being more flexible and practical since it  permitsof  the transfer or delegation of powers not merely  at	 theState level but at the regional level also.It  ensures that there will be no transfer or delegation  ofpowers	except	to  officers  whose  subordinate  has	beendetermined by rules properly framed under the Act.  It	alsoought to avoid the anomaly that has now occurred of a personin the position of a secretary of a body being empowered  tovary  the  condition of a permit granted by that  body.	  Wetherefore adopt this view."On the other hand, Satyanarayana Raju, J., speaking for	 thefull  bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, in the  lattercase summarizes his views thus at p. 416:(1) A.I.R. 1957 Mad. 599.(2) A.I.R. 1959 A.P. 413.102782The  Regional  Transport  Officer is an	 individual  who  isinvested  with the authority and is required to perform	 theduties incidental to an office and is therefore an  officer.In  the performance of his various duties, he is subject  tothe direction and control of the Transport Commissioner.  Heis   thus   an	 officer  subordinate	to   the   TransportCommissioner."The question is which of the two views is correct.  It fallsto  be	decided on the provisions of the Act and  the  rulesframed	thereunder.  The Act was passed to  consolidate	 andamend  the law relating to motor vehicles.  It deals with  avariety	 of  subjects relating to motor	 vehicles,  such  aslicensing  of  drivers	(Ch.  11),  registration  of   motorvehicles (Ch. 111), control of transport vehicles (Ch.	IV),construction,  equipment and maintenance of  motor  vehicles(Ch.   V),  control  of traffic (Ch.   VI),  motor  vehiclestemporarily leaving or visiting India (Ch.  VII),  insuranceof  motor  vehicles against third party risks  (Ch.   VIII),offences,   penalties,	 and  procedure	  (Ch.	  IX),	 andmiscellaneous (Ch.  X).	 Each chapter, with the exception ofch.   X, provides for a particular aspect relating to  motorvehicles  and  is,  within its	range,	self-contained,	 andcontains  a  separate  provision  conferring  power  on	 theGovernment  to make rules for the purpose of  carrying	intoeffect the provisions of that chapter.	Section 133A of	 thechapter	 dealing  with	miscellaneous  matters	enables	 theGovernment,  for  the purpose of carrying  into	 effect	 theprovisions  of	the  Act,  to  establish  a  motor  vehiclesdepartment,  to appoint officers to the said department,  tomake  rules,  inter alia, to regulate  their  functions	 andduties	and  name  the authorities to  whom  they  shall  besubordinate.   In short, the Act is comprehensive and  self-contained; the powers and duties of the various	 authoritiesand  their  relationship  inter se are	all  laid  down	 andregulated  by the provisions of the Act and the	 rules	madethereunder.With this background let us look at the relevant  provisionsof  ch.	  IV  of  the Act and  the  rules  made	 thereunder.Chapter	 IV  deals with " Control of Transport	Vehicles  ".Under  s. 42, no owner of a transport vehicle shall  use  orpermit the use of the vehicle in783any public place save in accordance with the conditions of apermit.	 Section 43 confers power on the State Government tocontrol	 road transport.  Section 43A which was inserted  inthe Act by Act 20 of s, 1948 enables the Government to issueadministrative	directions to Transport Authorities  createdunder the Act.	Section 44 empowers the State Government  toconstitute  for	 the State a State Transport  Authority	 andRegional  Transport  Authorities for  different	 regions  toexercise and discharge throughout their respective areas thepowers	and  functions specified in the Act.   Section	44A,which  was  inserted  by  Madras Act  20  of  1948,  furtherempowers  the State Government to appoint a State  TransportCommissioner  and  by  notification  authorize	him  or	 anyofficer subordinate to him to exercise and discharge in lieuof  any other authority prescribed by or under the Act	suchpowers	 and   functions  as  may  be	specified   in	 thenotification.	The duties and functions of  this  Authorityand its subordinate are confined only to notified  statutoryfunctions and duties imposed on other Authorities under thisAct  in whose place they are appointed.	 Sections 45  to  56lay  down  the	procedure to be	 followed  by  the  RegionalTransport Authority in issuing permits in respect of  stage,contract,  private  and	 public carriages  and	also  conferpowers	on the said Transport Authority to vary, cancel	 allor any of the conditions attached to such permits.   Section58 deals with the duration and renewal of permits and s.  59gives  the  statutory  conditions  attached  to	 a   permit.Section	 60 enables the Transport Authority which granted  apermit	to  cancel or to suspend it on any  of	the  groundsmentioned therein.  Section 64 confers a right of appeal  onan  aggrieved party to prefer an appeal against an order  ofthe  State  or	Regional  Transport  Authority	within	 theprescribed  time to the prescribed Authority in	 respect  ofmatters	 mentioned  therein.  Section 64A  gives  revisionaljurisdiction to the State Government to call for the recordsof any order passed by any Authority or officer	 subordinateto  it for the purpose of satisfying itself as to the  lega-lity,  regularity  or propriety of such order.	 Section  68confers on the State Government power to make rules784for  the purpose of carrying into effect the  provisions  ofthis  chapter;	and under sub-s. (2)(a)	 thereof  the  StateGovernment  is	authorized to make rules in respect  of	 theperiod	of appointment and the terms of appointment  of	 andthe  conduct  of business by Regional  and  State  TransportAuthorities and the reports to be furnished by them.This chapter, therefore, follows the same pattern adopted inthe  Act.  It creates Authorities, defines their powers	 andduties,	  and	provides  for  the   regulation	  of   theirrelationship inter se.In  exercise of the powers conferred under s. 44, the  StateGovernment  constituted	 in  the  State	 a  State  TransportAuthority  and	also  Regional	Transport  Authorities	 andappointed  members to the said bodies.	The constitution  ofthe  said  bodies  was changed from time to  time.   At	 thecrucial period, i.e., on July 19, 1954, the State  TransportAuthority  was described as the Central Road  Traffic  Board(C.   R.  T. B.) and its Chairman was  the  State  TransportCommissioner.	So  too,  the  State  Government   appointedRegional  Transport  Authorities, described as	Boards,	 andfrom  time  to time changed their composition.	 During	 theperiod	in  question  the  Regional  Transport	 Authoritiesconsisted of District Magistrate, District Superintendent ofPolice, the President, District Board, and one	non-officialperson to be nominated by the Government.It also appears from the judgment of Krishnaswamy Naidu, J.,who  referred the question to the full bench of	 the  MadrasHigh  Court, that the State Government established  a  MotorVehicles  Department under s. 133A of the Act and  appointedRegional Transport Officers.  Their powers are regulated  bythe  rules made under the Act.	Under r. 124,  the  RegionalTransport  Officer  is	made  the  Secretary  and  executiveofficer	  of  the  Board,  i.e.,  the	Regional   TransportAuthority.   Rules 131, 134, 134B and 135 define the  dutiesto  be	performed by the Secretary.  Rule 134A	enables	 theBoard, for the prompt and convenient discharge of  business,to delegate to the Secretary functions described under	thatrule.	Rule  134A  authorizes the  Board  to  give  generalinstructions as785to  the	 manner in which the Secretary	shall  exercise	 thepowers	delegated to him.  Under r. 147, appeals lie to	 theCentral Board against particular orders of the Secretary andthe  Board.   These  rules  positively	establish  that	 theRegional  Transport  Officer is subordinate  to	 the  Board,i.e.,  the Regional Transport Authority.  He  has  statutoryduties and functions and in discharge of those duties he  isunder  the  control of the Board and in the matter  of	somequasi  judicial	 duties an appeal lies to the  Central	RoadTraffic Board.	It is, therefore, manifest that the RegionalTransport Officer is appointed by the Government in exerciseof its powers under s. 133A of the Act, that his duties	 arestatutorily  defined  and that under the rules	he  is	madesubordinate  to	 the  Board, i.e.,  the	 Regional  TransportAuthority.Now  coming to the State Transport Commissioner,  the  StateGovernment is authorized to appoint him under s. 44A of	 theAct,  which  was inserted in the year 1948.  He	 is  also  astatutory  authority.	Both the parties  proceeded  on	 thebasis that the State Government established a Motor VehiclesDepartment  and	 the Commissioner was one of  its  officers.The  division bench of the Madras High Court which  referredthe  question to the full bench also accepted the fact	thatthe  Madras Government created a Motor	Vehicles  Departmentunder s. 133A of the Act and the Commissioner is an  officerof  that Department.  The full bench of the  Andhra  PradeshHigh  Court also founded its conclusion on the fact  that  "the  Transport Commissioner is constituted the head  of	 thedepartment   of	 transport  which  is  the  Motor   VehiclesDepartment ". That apart, cl. (m) which was inserted in r. 3on  December  20, 1955, clarifies the position	by  enactingthat   the  Transport  Department  is  the  Motor   VehiclesDepartment  set	 up  under  s. 133A  of	 the  Act.   It	 is,therefore, clear that the State has created a Motor VehiclesDepartment  and appointed the Commissioner as an officer  inthat  Department.   Neither  s. 44 nor	s.  133A  makes	 anyofficer	 subordinate to the said Commissioner.	 Section  44only  enables the State Government to confer on	 him  powersand  duties and functions entrusted to any  Authority  underthe Act,786No  notification  issued by the Government  authorizing	 theCommissioner to discharge any of the functions specified  inthe Act has been placed before us.  No ,rule has been framedunder  sub-s. (3) of s. 133A of the Act making the  RegionalTransport  Authority  subordinate  to  the  State  TransportCommissioner.  The only material available to us is that theCommissioner  was  appointed  by  the  State  Government  asChairman  of the Central Road Traffic Board.  Under the	 Actand the rules framed thereunder, there are certain statutoryduties	and functions allotted to the Central  Road  TrafficBoard, but no separate powers are conferred on the  Chairmanof  the Board apart from hi$ being a part of the Board.	  Itis, therefore, clear that under the Act and the rules framedthereunder  the	 Regional  Transport  Officer  is  not	madesubordinate to the State Transport Commissioner.But   what   is	 contended  is	that  though   between	 theCommissioner and the Regional Transport Officer, there is nostatutory   subordination,  the	 latter	 was  made  by	 theGovernment administratively subordinate to the Commissioner.There  is  no order of the Government  making  the  RegionalTransport  Officer a subordinate to the Commissioner  placedbefore	us.  The only material is a notification  issued  bythe  Government dated October 20,1955, on which reliance  isplaced	to indicate that the Regional Transport	 Officer  issubordinate  to the Commissioner.  But obviously it  has  norelevance  to the present enquiry, for the notification	 wasissued	on  a date subsequent to the date  of  the  impugnedorder.	 If there was an earlier notification, the State  orthe  appellant	would have produced it, but  from  its	non-production  it	may  be	 assumed  that	there  was  no	suchnotification.	If that is excluded, the only two  remainingdocuments  are, (i) The Madras Financial Code giving a	listof  the heads of departments of the Madras State,  and	(ii)the  Half-Yearly  List of Gazetted Officers  in	 the  MadrasState	Government.    The  former   shows   the   TransportCommissioner  as one of the heads of departments.   It	doesnot  in itself show that the Regional Transport	 Officer  ishis subordinate.  The mere mention of the Regional TransportOfficers in the list of Gazetted787Officers in the department is not decisive of the fact	thatthey are subordinate to the Transport Commissioner.  In thisstate  of  record,  it is not possible	to  hold  that	evenadministratively   the	 Regional   Transport	Officer	  issubordinate to the State Transport Commissioner.I  shall  assume  for  the purpose of  this  case  that	 theRegional Transport officer is treated by the Government as asubordinate  Officer to the Commissioner.  The	question  inthis case is whether such administrative treatment in  utterdisregard  of the statutory provisions can confer  upon	 theRegional Transport Officer a right to function under s.	 44Aof the Act.The foregoing provisions relevant to the present enquiry maybe  summarised thus: The Act is a selfcontained one.   Underspecific provisions it empowers the Government to constitutea   State  Transport  Authority,  the	Regional   TransportAuthorities and a State Transport Commissioner.	 Section 44Adoes  not  authorize the Government to	appoint	 subordinateofficers to the Commissioner, but only enables it to  conferstatutory  powers on an officer subordinate to	the  Commis-sioner.	  In exercise of the powers conferred under s.	133Aof  the Act, the State Government created a  Motor  VehiclesDepartment and appointed in that Department a  Commissioner,Regional  Transport  officers  and others.   But  the  StateGovernment  has	 not  made any	rules  making  the  RegionalTransport   officer  a	subordinate  to	 the   Commissioner.Indeed,	 the  rules made him the executive  officer  of	 theRegional  Transport  Board indicating thereby that he  is  asubordinate  to the Board.  It is, therefore, manifest	thateither under the Statute or under the rules made  thereunderthe  Regional  Transport Officer is not subordinate  to	 theCommissioner.Learned	 Attorney-General contends that s. 133A of  the	 Actonly  confers a discretionary power on the State  Governmentto  make  rules	 indicating the	 authorities  to  which	 theofficers  appointed shall be subordinate and, therefore,  itis  not bound to do so.	 Assuming that the word " may  "  inthe  section  confers  a discretionary power  on  the  StateGovernment, is it permissible to contend that the Governmentis entitled to do788administratively  what it is empowered to do by rules ?	  Ifthe Government decides not to exercise the powers  conferredunder sub-s. (3) of s. 133A, it may withhold from doing	 so;but it cannot bring about the same result  administratively,i.e.,  by  a  process other than by way of  rules.   If	 thecontention  were  accepted, it would be attributing  to	 thelegislature  an intention to make an unnecessary  Provision.If the State Government could act administratively in regardto  matters  covered  by sub-s. (3),  why  should  the	saidsubsection  be	made  at all'?	Either by  making  rules  orwithout	 making rules, the Government can achieve  the	sameobject.	   There  is  an  understandable  reason   for	 thelegislative preference to a statutory rule.  Statutory rulesare  placed  before  Parliament	 for  its  approval,   whileadministrative regulations are entirely in the discretion ofthe  executive government.  Statutory authorities under	 theAct  are  empowered to exercise	 powers	 affecting  valuablerights	of citizens.  The power to issue permits and  modifythe  conditions thereof affects large interests and  it	 maywell  be  that the legislature in insisting  upon  statutoryrules  seeks  to exercise supervision to  prevent  abuse  ofpowers.	 The only reasonable construction of s. 133A is thatthe State can create subordination of one officer to anotherby  only  statutory  rules  and	 not  otherwise.   I  would,therefore,  hold  that	if the Government seeks	 to  make  aparticular officer of the Department subordinate to another,it  can only do so by making a statutory rule  under  sub-s.(3) of s. 133A of the Act.The  result  is that negatively there is no  statutory	rulemaking	the  Regional Transport Officer subordinate  to	 theState Transport Commissioner, and positively there is a rulemaking	him subordinate to the Regional Transport  Authority(R.T.A.).  If  that  be so, I must hold	 that  the  RegionalTransport  officer  is	not  a	subordinate  to	 the   StateTransport  Commissioner within the meaning of s. 44A of	 theAct.In the result the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.			      Appeal dismissed.789		      Order of Court.In view of the majority judgment of the Court, the appeal isallowed	 with costs in this Court, and the case remanded  tothe High Court for a re-hearing by a single Judge.  Costs inthe High Court will abide the result.			      Appeal allowed.