PETITIONER:SHR1 RADESHYAM KHARE & ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:30/09/1958BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, S.K.KAPUR, J.L.SUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  107		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1)1440 CITATOR INFO : F	    1962 SC1110	 (8) R	    1965 SC1518	 (9,10) R	    1965 SC1578	 (16) OPN	    1967 SC1353	 (5) RF	    1967 SC1507	 (6) RF	    1973 SC2237	 (3)ACT:Municipality  -	 Appointment of Executive Officer  by  StateGovernmcnt-If	an  administrative  act-C.  P.	 and   BerarMunicipalities Act, 1922 (Act II of 1922), ss. 53A and 57.HEADNOTE:The main point for decision in this appeal by the  MunicipalCommittee  of  Dhamtari and its President  was,	 whether  inappointing  an Executive Officer in exercise of	 its  powersunder  s.  53A of the C. P. and	 Berar	Municipalities	Act,1922,  the State Government acted in a judicial capacity  orin an administrative one Complaints having been made againstthe appellants, the additional Deputy Collector was directedto  hold an enquiry and on his report the State	 Government,by a notification under that section, appointed an ExecutiveOfficer	 of  the  Municipal Committee  for  18	months	withspecified  powers  and duties.	The  appellants	 were  givennotice of the said enquiry, filed objections1441and  the President was personally present on some  occasionsduring the enquiry.  The notification charged the appellantswith  incompetency as well as abuse of power.  Against	thatnotification the appellants moved the High Court under	Art.226,  of the Constitution for a writ of certiorari  quashingthe  same, but their application was rejected by  the  judgesitting singly.	 An appeal under the Letters Patent  againsthis  decision  was summarily dismissed.	  It  was  contendedbefore	this  Court on behalf of the  appellants  that,	 (1)although  the notification purported to be one under s.	 53Aof the Act, it was in effect and reality one under s. 57  Ofthe  Act,  that	 (2) it was,  therefore,  incumbent  on	 theGovernment  under  s.  57(5)  of  the  Act  to	afford	 theappellants  an opportunity to furnish explanation  and	that(3)  even  if the notification was one under s. 53A  of	 theAct,  the  Government  was bound by  the  rules	 of  naturaljustice	 to  give the appellants an  opportunity  to  defendthemselves.Held  (per  curiam), that ss. 53A and 57 of the	 C.  P.	 andBerar Municipalities Act, 1922, differed materially in theirscope and effect, but it was not obligatory under either  ofthem for the Government to take any action at all.  Althougha  finding of incompetency of the Municipal Committee was  acondition  precedent to action under both the sections,	 theGovernment  was	 free to choose its remedy as  the  occasiondemanded  and  it  could not be	 contended  that  because  anotification  made  under s. 53A of the Act,  along  with  afinding	 of incompetency, contained some instances of  abuseof power as well, it must be held to have been made under S.57 of the Act.Nor  could the vesting of power in the Executive Officer  bythe notification, however substantial in character, be said,in  effect  and reality, to amount to a dissolution  of	 theMunicipal Committee under S. 57 Of the Act.Per Das C. T. and Kapur J.--The real test whether the  StateGovernment functioned in a quasi-judicial capacity or in  anadministrative	capacity in exercising its powers  under  S.53A  of the Act was whether the statute required it  to	 actjudicially  either  expressly or by  implication.   The	 Actcontained no express provision to that effect, nor could thedetermination  of  the fact of incompetency-as	a  conditionprecedent to any action under that section, by itself, carrysuch  an implication.  In making the notification  under  S.53A  of the Act, therefore, the Government functioned in  anadministrative	capacity  and not in a	quasi-judicial	one.Even so, by the enquiry held, the State Government  affordedthe  appellants ample opportunity to defend  themselves	 andthere could hardly be any ground for complaint.Province  Of  Bombay  v. Kusaldas S. Advani,  [1950]  S.C.R.621,  Rex v. Electricity Commissioners, [1924] 1  K.B.	171,Rex  v.	 London County Council, [1913] 2 K. B.	215,  R.  v.Legislative Committee Of the Church Assembly, (1928) 1	K.B.411 and Nakkuda Ali's Case,1951) A.C. 66, referred to.1442Per  Bhagwati J.-Since the enquiry held in this	 case  fullysatisfied  the	requirements  of  natural  justice,  it	 wasunnecessary  to	 determine  for the  purpose  of  this	casewhether the State r Government in acting under s. 53A of theAct   did  so  in  a  quasi-judicial  capacity	or   in	  anadministrative one.Per S. K. Das J.-If the question was one of compliance	withthe  rules  of	natural justice, the  enquiry  held  in	 thepresent case could hardly be said to have complied with suchrules; but since the State Government in acting under s. 53Aof  the Act had only to consider policy and  expediency	 anddid  at no stage have any form of lis before it, its  actionthereunder  was	 purley of an administrative  character	 notamenable to a writ of certiorari.R.v. Manchester Legal Aid Committee, (1952) 2 Q. B.  413,applied.Per  Subba Rao J.-On a proper appreciation of  the  criterialaid  down  by s. 53A of the Act itself, there could  be  nodoubt that it imposed a duty on the State Government to	 actjudicially  in ascertaining the fact of the incompetency  ofthe Municipal Committee to perform its duties.	It is  clearthat  the determination of such a jurisdictional fact  couldnot  have  been left to the subjective satisfaction  of	 theGovernment  but	 was intended to be arrived  at	 objectivelyand, therefore, it was incumbent upon the Government to givea  reasonable opportunity to the appellants to	explain	 thecharge	levelled against them.	Such enquiry as was held  inthe  instant case could hardly take the place of  reasonableopportunity  to be given by the Government for the  proposedaction under s. 53A of the Act.Rex  v. The Electricity Commissioners, (1924) i K.  B.	171,Province of Bombay v. Kusaldas S. Advani, [1950] S.C.R.	 621andR.   v.	 Manchester Legal Aid Committee, (1952) 2 Q.B.	413,referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 301 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedFebruary  21,  1958,  of the Madhya Pradesh  High  Court  atJabalpur  in Letters Patent Appeal No. 22 of  1958,  againstthe order dated February 20, 1958, of the said High Court inMisc.  Petition No. 266 of 1957.M.K.   Nambiyar,  S.  N. Andley,  J.  B.  Dadachanji  andRameshwar Nath, for the appellants.M.   Adhikari, Advocate-General, Madhya Pradesh and1. N. Shroff, for the respondents.14431958.	 September   30.   The	following   Judgments	weredelivered:DAS  C.J.-There	 are  two appellants in	 this  appeal.	 Thesecond	appellant  is the Municipal  Committee	of  Dhamtariconstituted  under the C. P. and Berar	Municipalities	Act,1922  (Act  11	of  1922) and the  first  appellant  is	 itsPresident having been elected as such on July 10, 1956.	  Heassumed charge of his office as President on July 27,  1956.It  may	 be  mentioned that he was returned  as	 a  Congresscandidate  but has since been expelled from that  party	 forhaving contested the last general election as an independentcandidate against the Congress candidate.It  appears  that there are two factions  in  the  MunicipalCommittee.   The  first appellant alleges that	one  DhurmalDaga,  a member of the committee belonging to  the  Congressparty was on August 7, 1956, deflected importing within	 themunicipal  limits  certain cloth without paying	 the  octroiduty.	Dhurmal	 Daga, on the other hand, alleged  that	 thefirst  appellant  was guilty of grave mismanagement  of	 theaffairs of the Municipal Committee and went on hunger strikefor securing the appointment of a committee to enquire	intothe  misconduct	 of  the first	appellant.   Copies  of	 theleaflets  containing the demands and charges which are	saidto  have been widely distributed are annexures I and  11  tothe  present petition.	It appears that several persons	 andfirms  also preferred charges against the  first  appellant,the  President of the Municipal Committee.   The  Collector,Raipur, personally intervened and persuaded the said DhurmalDaga to abandon the fast on an assurance that he would	lookinto the matter.  The Collector deputed one Shri N. R.	Ranathe   Additional  Deputy  Collector  to	 enquire  into	 thecomplaints  of	maladministration  of  the  affairs  of	 theMunicipal Committee.  By a Memorandum No. K/J N. P. Dhamtaridated  August 24, 1956, the said N. R. Rana called upon	 thefirst appellant as tile President of the second appellant togive detailed explanation of each complaint, a list of whichwas  enclosed  therewith.  A copy of that  memorandum  alongwith its 22 enclosures1444is annexed to the petition and marked 111.  Annexures IV andV to the petition are copies of the detailed  report on	 theobjections  and	 the reply to the charges made	against	 theMunicipal  Committee  submitted	 from  the  office  of	 theMunicipal Committee by the first appellant as the  Presidentof the Municipal Committee.  The Additional Deputy Collectorthereafter held the enquiry.  The High Court states that  ithad  "	gone  through  the  materials  on  which  the  StateGovernment  based  its action on enquiry  into	the  chargeslevelled  against  the	Municipal  Committee  and  that	 therecords of the enquiry showed thaton  some  occasions	thepetitioner was present duringthe  enquiry  ".  Thereis	 nosuggestion  that  the appellants wanted	 an  opportunity  toadduce any evidence or were prevented from doing so or	thatthey were in any way hampered in their defence.	  Presumablythe  Additional Deputy Collector had made a report which  indue course must have been forwarded to the State Government.On  November 18, 1957, a notification was published in	theOfficial  Gazette whereby the State Government, in  exerciseof  the	 powers conferred on it by s. 53-A of the  C.  P.  &Berar  Municipalities  Act, 1922, appointed one Shri  B.  P.Jain,  the  second respondent before us,  as  the  ExecutiveOfficer	 of the Municipal Committee, Dhamtari, for a  periodof  18 months with certain powers as therein  mentioned.   Acopy  of that notification has been annexed to the  petitionand marked VIII but as the major part of the arguments	can-vassed before us turns on the contents of that	notificationthe same is reproduced below in extenso:" Dated, Bhopal, the 18th November, 1957, No.  9262/11538-U-XVIII-Whereas  it appears to the State Government  that	 theMunicipal Committee, Dhamtari, has proved itself incompetentto perform the duties imposed on it by or under the  CentralProvinces  and Berar Municipalities Act, 1922 (11 of  1922),inasmuch as it-(a)granted  grain and building advances to  the	 employeeswithout	 prior sanction and no efforts were made  for  theirrecovery,(b)  showed carelessness in cases of embezzlement1445of   the  employees  and  did  not  report  such  cases	  toGovernment,(c)failed  to control the President who issued	orders	incases in which he had no authority(d)spent thousands of rupees on sanitation and other worksalthough there was no provision in thebudget,(e)allowed   unconcerned  persons  to  interfere  in   itsworking,(f)showed partiality in the appointments and dismissals ofthe employees, further such appointments and dismissals weremade against rules,(g)delayed  the	 constitution  of the  committee  and  theframing of budget,(h)  misused the trucks of the municipality,(i)  failed to recover the lease money,(j)  shown partiality in the issue of transit passes tocertain	 traders, further excess octroi duty was charged  oncertain	 articles and in certain cases where octroi duty  isnot leviable it was levied just to harass the people,(k)distributed municipal manure to certain persons withoutany  charge, similarly distributed the manure free  of	costand used the truck of the municipality for this purpose,(1)failed to control its president who spent the money	ofthe Municipal Committee without any authority,(m)spent  huge amount on the maintenance of the roads  anddrainage but their condition has remained unsatisfactory,(n)failed  to  give. copies of the  documents  as  allowedunder rules, also failed to allow its members to inspect therecords as is permissible under rules,(o)failed  to invite tenders of purchase of articles,  andwhereas,  the  State  Government considers  that  a  generalimprovement  in	 the administration of the  Municipality  islikely to be secured by the appointment of a servant of	 theGovernment as Executive Officer of the Committee.Now,  therefore,  in  exercise of the  powers  conferred  bysection 53-A of the Central Provinces and Berar1446Municipalities Act, 1922 (11 of 1922), the State  Governmentare pleased to appoint Shri B. P. Jain, Deputy Collector, asexecutive Officer of the Municipal Committee, Dhamtari,	 fora  period  of eighteen months  from the date of	 his  takingovercharge and with reference to sub-section (3) thereof arefurther	 pleased to direct that the Executive Officer  shallexercise and perform the following powers and duties of	 theCommittee  to  the exclusion of	 the  Committee,  President,Vice-President	or  Secretary, under the provisions  of	 theCentral Provinces and Berar Municipalities Act, 1922 (11  of1922), namely:-Chapter 111.  Appointment of Officers and  servants-Sections25, 26 and 28.Chapter IV.  Procedure in Committee meeting Section 31.Chapter V. Property, contract and liabilities Sections 37 to45.Chapter VI.  Duties of Committee-Sections 50 and 51.Chapter VIII.  The municipal fund-whole.Chapter IX.  Imposition, assessment and collection of taxes-whole.Chapter X. Municipal Budgets and accounts whole.Chapter	 XI.   Powers  to regulate  streets  and  buildings-Sections 90 to 94, 96, 98, 99, 103 and 104.Chapter XII.  Powers to prevent disease and public nuisance-Sections 117, 118(1), 119 and 132.Chapter	 XVIII.	 Offences, practice  and  procedure-Sections218-223.Chapter	 XIX.	Special provisions for	recovery  of  taxes-whole.The  Executive	officer shall exercise	general	 supervisingpowers	in  respect of all matters covered  by	the  CentralProvinces and Berar Municipalities Act, 1922 (11 of 1922).In Hindi (By order of the Governor of MadhyaPradesh)		 S. S. Joshi,	      Deputy Secretary."1447On December 21, 1957, the two appellants before us presentedbefore	the Madhya Pradesh High Court the writ petition	 outof  which the present appeal has arisen and on	January	 11,1958,  obtained an order staying the operation of the  orderof appointment of the Executive Officer.  The writ  petitionwas  dismissed	on February 20, 1958.  There was  a  LettersPatent Appeal which was dismissed in limine on February	 21,1958.  The application for -certificate under Arts. 132	 and133  was refused on March 21, 1958.  The present  appellantsapplied	 for and on April 1, 1958, obtained from this  Courtspecial	 leave	to appeal from the judgment  of	 the  MadhyaPradesh	 High  Court.  The interim stay order made  by	thisCourt  was eventually vacated on May 13, 1958.	 The  appealhas now come up before us for final disposal.Shri  M.  K. Nambiar, appearing in support of  this  appeal,urged three points, namely(i)that though the Notification purports to have been madein   exercise  of  the	power,,;  conferred  on	 the   StateGovernment  by s. 53-A, in substance and in reality  it	 hasbeen made under s. 57 of the Act;(ii)that  if the Notification is held to be one made  unders.  57	it  is	ultra vires  and  bad  since  the  statutoryrequirements of affording reasonable opportunity to  explainhas not been complied with;(iii)that even if the impugned Notification be held  tocome  within  s. 53-A it is still ultra vires  since  beforepromulgating it the State Government has committed a  breachof   the  rules	 of  natural  justice  in  not	giving	 anyopportunity to the appellants to defend themselves.There  was  a  charge of mala fide made	 against  the  StateGovernment  founded on the fact that the  first	 appellant'sleaving the Congress party had resulted in ill-will  towardsthe  first  appellant of that -party which  was	 the  rulingparty  in the State Government, but as that charge  has	 notbeen  pressed before us nothing further need be	 said  aboutit.  I now proceed to deal with the three points  formulatedabove by learned counsel for the appellants.1841448Re. (i) and (ii): These two points are correlated and may beconveniedtly  dealt with together.  The argument in  supportof them is developed in two ways.  In the first place it  issaid that the grounds set forth in the impugned notificationclearly	 indicate  that in substance and in reality  it	 hasbeen issued rather under s. 57 of the Act than under s.	 53-A.  In order to appreciate this argument it is necessary  toset   out  the	two  sections  of  the	C.  P.	 and   BerarMunicipalities Act, 1922 in extenso:"  53-A. (1) If a committee is not competent to perform	 theduties	imposed on it or undertaken by it by or	 under	thisAct  or any other enactment for the time being in force	 andthe State Government considers that a general improvement inthe  administration  of	 the municipality is  likely  to  besecured by the appointment of a servant of the Government asthe executive officer of the committee, the State Governmentmay,  by an order stating the reasons therefor published  inthe  Gazette, appoint such servant as the executive  officerof  the	 committee for such period  not	 exceeding  eighteenmonths as may be specified in such order.(2)Any	executive officer appointed under  subsection  (1)shall  be deemed to be an officer lent to the  committee  byGovernment under sub-section (3) of section  25.(3)When under subsection (1) an executive officer    isappointed  for	any committee, the  State  Government  shalldetermine  from	 time  to  time	 which	powers,	 duties	 andfunctions  of  the committee, president,  vice-president  orsecretary  under  this	Act  or	 any  rule  or	byelaw	madethereunder shall be exercised and performed by such officer,in  addition to, or to the exclusion of, their exercise	 andperformance by the said committee, president, vice-presidentor secretary.(4)  The secretary of the committee shall be subordinate  tothe executive officer.(5)  The  executive officer shall have the right  to  attendall  meetings  of the committee and any joint  committee  orsub-committee  and to take part in the discussion so  as  tomake an explanation in regard to1449the subject under discusion, but shall not move, second,  orvote on any resolution or other motion.	 ""  57.	(1) If a committee is not competent to	perform,  orpersistently makes default in the performance of, the dutiesimposed	 on  it or undertaken by it under this	Act  or	 anyother  enactment for the time being in force, or exceeds  orabuses	its powers to a grave extent, the  State  Governmentmay,  by an order stating the reasons therefor published  inthe Official Gazette, dissolve such committee and may  ordera fresh election to take place.(2)If after fresh election the new committee continues	tobe  incompetent	 to  perform,  or to  make  default  in	 theperformance of, such duties or exceeds or abuses its  powersto  a  grave extent, the State Government may, by  an  orderstating	 the  reasons  therefor published  in  the  OfficialGazette,  declare  the	committee to be	 incompetent  or  indefault,  or to have exceeded or abused its powers,  as	 thecase  may be, and supersede it for a period to be  specifiedin the order.(3)If  a  committee  is so dissolved  or  superseded,  thefollowing consequences shall ensue :(a)all members of the committee shall, as from the date ofthe order, vacate their offices as such members;(b)all	powers and duties of the committee may, until  thecommittee  is reconstituted, be exercised and  performed  bysuch person or persons as the State (Government may  appointin that behalf;(c)  all  property vested in it shall until the commitee  isreconstituted vest in the State Government.(4)On  the  expiration	of  the	 period	 of   supersessionspecified  in  the order, the committee shall  be  reconsti-tuted, and the persons who vacated their offices under	sub-section (3), clause (a), shall not, by reason solely of suchsupersession be deemed disqualified for being members.(5)  No order under sub-section (1) or subsection (2)  shallbe passed until reasonable opportunity has been given to thecommittee to furnish an explanation.(6)  Any person or persons appointed by the State1450Government to exercise and perform the powers and duties  ofa dissolved or superseded committee may receive payment,  ifthe  State Government so directs, for his or their  servicesfrom the municipal fund." Learned counsel for the appellantspoints	out  that action may be taken under s. 53-A "  if  acommittee is not competent to perform the duties imposed  onit ............... and the State Government considers that ageneral	  improvement	in   the   administration   of	 themunicipality  is  likely to be secured Whereas under  s.  57action	can  be	 taken	not only " if  a  committee  is	 notcompetent  to perform or persistently makes default  in	 theperformance of the duties imposed on it or  but also if	 thecommittee exceeds or abuses its powers to a grave extent  Itis  pointed out that in case of incompetency action  can  betaken either under s. 53-A or s. 57 but in case of abuse  ofpower  action  can be taken only under s. 57.  Reference  isthen  made  to the grounds enumerated  in  the	notificationitself and it is argued that except perhaps grounds a, b,  cand  g	which may be indicative of incompetency,  the  othergrounds,  which	 are, by far, greater in  number,  obviouslyconstitute  abuse of powers and from this  circumstance	 theconclusion  is sought to be drawn that in substance  and  inreality the impugned notification must have been made  unders.  57	and that that being so the  notification  cannot  besustained because of the non-compliance with the  provisionsof  sub-s.  (5) of s. 57 which expressly lay  down  that  noorder  tinder  sub-s.  (1)  or (2)  shall  be  passed  untilreasonable  opportunity has been given to the  committee  tofurnish	 an explanation.  I am not persuaded to uphold	thisargument.In  the	 first	place  it has to  be  remembered  that,	 thesections  under consideration only confer certain powers  onthe  State  Government but that the latter is not  bound  totake any action under either of them.  In the next place  itshould	be noted that the two sections differ materially  intheir scope and effect.	 Under s. 53-A the State  Governmentmay  only  appoint  a  servant	of  the	 Government  as	 theExecutive  Officer of the committee and may determine,	fromtime to time,1451which powers and duties and functions of the committee,	 itspresident,  vice-president or secretary shall  be  exercisedand  performed	by such officer and  indicate  whether	theyshould be exercised and performed in addition to, or to	 theexclusion  of,	their exercise and performance by  the	saidcommittee,  president,	vice-president	or  secretary.	 Thewording of s. 53-A makes it quite clear that the action thatmay  be taken thereunder is to be effective for a  temporaryduration  not exceeding 18 months and the purpose of  takingsuch  action  is  to  ensure  the  proper  performance	 anddischarge of only certain powers, duties and functions underthe  Act.   The section does not, in terms,  affect,  eitherlegally	 or factually, the existence of the  committee,	 itspresident,  vice  president or the secretary.	Section	 57,however,   authorises	the   State   Government,   in	 thecircumstances mentioned in the opening part of that section,to dissolve the committee itself and order a fresh  electionto take place so that the committee as a legal entity ceasesto exist and all the sitting members of the committee becomefuncti	officio.   If  after such fresh	 election  the	samesituation prevails, then that section further authorises theState Government to declare the committee to be	 incompetentor in default or to have exceeded or abused its power as thecase may be and to supersede it for such period (not limitedby  the	 section)  as may be specified in  the	order.	 Theeffect of an order made under s. 57 is, therefore, extremelydrastic	 and  puts  an	end to the  very  existence  of	 thecommittee  itself  and, in view of the grave nature  of	 theconsequences  that  will ensue, the  legislature  presumablythought	 that  some  protection	 should	 be  given  to	 thecommittee  before  such	 a  drastic  action  was  taken	 andaccordingly it provided, by sub-s. (5) of that section, thatno  order should be passed until reasonable opportunity	 hadbeen  given  to the committee to furnish  an  explanation  aprovision  which clearly indicates that action under  s.  57can  only  be taken after bearing and  considering  all	 theexplanations  furnished	 by or on behalf of  the  committee.The  legislature  did  not think fit to	 provide  a  similarsafeguard in s. 53A presumably because1452the  order  under  the	last  mentioned	 section  was  of  atemporary  duration,  was  not	very  drastic  and  did	 notthreaten  the  very existence of the committee.	  A  cursoryreading	 of  the two sections will also	 indicate  that	 theconditions  precedent  to the exercise of the  powers  underboth  sections overlap to some extent, namely,	that  actioncan  be taken under both if the committee "is not  competentto  perform  the  duties imposed on  it............  To	 theextent that the requirements of the two sections overlap theState  Government has the option of taking steps  under	 onesection or the other according to its own assessment of	 theexigencies  of the situation.  The position,  therefore,  isthat  if a committee is not competent to perform the  dutiesimposed	 on it the State Government has to make up its	mindas  to	whether	 it should take any action all	and,  if  itthinks	that action should be taken, then it has further  todecide	for itself as to which of the two sections it  wouldact  under.   If  the State Government	considers  that	 theincompetency  does  not	 run  to  a  grave  extent  and	 theexigencies  of	the  situation	may  be	 adequately  met  byappointing  an	Executive  Officer for a  short	 period	 notexceeding  18 months with certain powers to be exercised  byhim, either in addition to or in exclusion of their exerciseby  the	 committee,  the president,  vice-president  or	 thesecretary,  the	 State Government may properly	take  actionunder  s. 53-A.	 On the other hand if the  State  Governmentconsiders,  having  regard to all the circumstances  of	 thecase, that the incompetency is much too grave to permit	 thecommittee, its president, vice-president or the secretary tofunction at all, it may take action under s. 57 and dissolvethe  committee and direct fresh election to take place.	  Inother words incompetency on the part of the committee  givesto the State Government an option to apply one of two  reme-dies  under  the Act, if, that is to say,  it  considers  itnecessary to take action at all.What, then, is the position here ? Certain charges had	beenmade  in  writing against the committee	 and  its  presidentwhich  were  forwarded to the president with  a	 request  tosubmit explanations in detail.	The1453president,  acting in his official capacity,  gave  detailedexplanations  in writing and sent the same  officially	fromthe  office  of the municipal committee	 to  the  AdditionalDeputy	Collector who was deputed by the Collector  to	holdthe  enquiry.	The  Additional Deputy	Collector  held	 theenquiry	 during	 which the president appeared in  person  onseveral	 days  and came to certain findings  and  presumablymade  his report which in due course must have	reached	 the;State Government.  The State Government apparently acceptedsuch  of  those	 findings  as  have  been  set	out  in	 thenotification  it-self Even according to learned counsel	 forthe  appellants	 some  of  those  findings  amount  only  toincompetency  and the rest, he contends, amount to abuse  ofpower.	 I need not pause to Consider whether the  abuse  ofpower thus found was of a grave nature so as to fall  withins.  57	as  such or was of a minor character  so  as  to  beevidence  of mere incompetency Taking the position to be  ascontended by learned counsel for the appellants the positionwas  that, as a result of the enquiry, the State  Governmentfound two things against, the appellant committee, namely,(i)  that it was guilty of incompetency and (ii) that itwas  also guilty of certain abuses of power.  I have alreadystated that the State Government was not obliged to take anyaction	at all either under s. 53-A or under s. 57.  If	 theState  Government considered that it was necessary  to	takeaction, it was entirely for the State Government to considerwhether	 it would take action for incompetency or for  abuseof  power.  In the present case the State  Government  mighthave  thought that the abuse of power so found was not of  avery grave nature but evidenced only incompetency.  Surely acommittee  which  abused  its power  might  also  have	beenreasonably  regarded  as incompetent to perform	 the  dutiesimposed on it That apart, supposing the committee was guiltyof incompetency as well as of some abuses, what was there toprevent the State Government, as a matter of policy, to takeaction	for incompetency under s. 53-A ? The mere  inclusionof  the findings of abuse of power in the catalogue  of	 theCommittee's1454misdeeds  does not obliterate the findings on  incompetency.I  see	nothing wrong in the State  Government	telling	 thecommittee: " You have been guilty of incompetency as well asof  abuse  of power; but I shall not, just at  this  moment,take  drastic action of' dissolving you outright, but  shallbe  content to take action and appoint an Executive  officerfor  18 months and confer some power on him under s.  53-A".In  my	judgment the State Government was  well	 within	 itstights, in exercise of its option, to take action, under  s.53-A  as  it  has in terms purported to	 do.   To  say	thatbecause	 some of the findings amount to abuse of  power	 theState  Government must act under s. 57 is to deprive  it  ofits discretion which the Act undoubtedly confers on it.	  Inmy  view  the fact that the impugned  notification  records,apart from the findings of incompetency, certain findings ofabuse  of  power,  does	 not  lead  to	the  conclusion,  ascontended for the appellants, that the State Government	 hadtaken action under s. 57 and not under s. 53-A although,  interms, it says it acted under the lastmentioned section.Learned	 counsel  for  the  appellants	in  support  of	 hiscontention  that the impugned notification was	really	madeunder s. 57 of the Act, refers us to the, powers and  dutiesconferred  on the executive Officer thereby appointed to  beexercised  and	performed  by him to the  exclusion  of	 thecommittee,  its president, vicepresident, or the  secretary.His argument is that although the municipal committee is notostensibly  dissolved,	it is in effect and  in	 reality  sodissolved, for the substance of the powers of the committee,its  president,	 vice-president or the	secretary  has	beentaken away from them leaving only a semblance of power whichis nothing but mere husk and the conclusion urged by learnedcounsel	 is that the impugned notification must be  regardedas having been made under s. 57.  In the first place, s.  57does  not  contemplate	the  appointment  of  any  executiveOfficer	 or the conferment of any power on him,	 while	suchappointment and conferment of power is directly contemplatedby s. 53-A.  In the second place the legal1455existence  of the municipal committee and the status of	 itsmembers	 and its president, vice-president or the  secretaryhave  not been impaired at all.	 In the eye of the  law	 themunicipal  committee  still  exists and along  with  it	 themembers of the committee, the president, vice-president	 andthe  secretary still hold their respective  offices.   Thesefeatures clearly militate against the suggestion that actionhas  been taken under s. 57.  Learned counsel says  that  wemust  look beyond mere form and get to the substance of	 thematter.	  There can be no doubt that most of  the  importantpowers	have  been  taken  away	 from  the  committee,	 itspresident,  vice-president and the secretary, but  that	 maywell  be  due to the degree of gravity of  the	incompetencyfound  or  inferred  from the other  findings.	 Further,  acursory perusal of the Act and of the notification will showthat  various  other powers and duties have not	 been  takenaway  from  the	 committee or  conferred  on  the  ExecutiveOfficer.   Thus the powers of the committee under  ss.	128,130, 131, 133 to 141 and 144, 145 arid 147 to 149 are  stillvested	in and are exercisable by the  committee.   Likewisethe  powers under ss. 120, 121, 122, 123 to 127,  129,	150,152 to 160 to 162, 163, 163A and 168 are still vested in andexercisable  by the president.	These powers that are  stillleft with the committee or the president can hardly or	withpropriety  be  described as mere husks.	 It  should  not  beoverlooked that the suggestion that the real power has	beentaken  away  leaving only a semblance of it, is	 really	 ailargument in aid of a charge of mala fides, but, as  here-in-before stated, the charge of mala fides or fraud on the partof the State Government has not been persisted in or pressedbefore	us.  In my judgment, therefore, there is no  warrantfor contending that the impugned notification, judged by itseftect, must be regarded as having been made under s. 57  ofthe  Act.   In	this  view of the  matter  the	argument  ofinvalidity of the action founded on non-compliance with	 therequirements  of  sub-s.  (5) of s. 57 does  not  arise	 forconsideration at all.I851456Re. (iii): In the writ application, out of which this appealarises, the principal prayer of the appellants is for a writin the nature of certiorari for quashing the order passed bythe State Government on November 18, 1957.  Tile next prayerwhich is for a writ of mandamus restraining the	 respondentsfrom  giving effect to the impugned order is clearly  conse-quential  on  or  ancillary to the main	 prayer.   The	lastprayer	is in the nature of the usual prayer for further  orother	reliefs.    Therefore  the   present   petition	  isessentially one for the issue of a writ of certiorari.	 Thewrit of certiorari is a well-known ancient high	 prerogativewrit  that  used to be issued by the Courts  of	 the  King'sBench to correct the errors of the inferior Courts  strictlyso  called.  Gradually the scope of these writs came  to  beenlarged  so  as to enable the Superior Courts	to  exercisecontrol	 over  various	bodies	which  were  not,   strictlyspeaking,  Courts at all but which were, by statute,  vestedwith powers and duties that resembles those that were vestedin  the	 ordinary  inferior Courts.  The law  is  now  well-settled that a writ of certiorari will lie to control such astatutory body if it purports to act without jurisdiction orin excess of it or in violation of the principles of naturaljustice,  or commits any error apparent on the face  of	 therecords,  provided  that,  on a	 true  construction  of	 thestatute	 creating such body, it can be said to be  a  quasi-judicial  body entrusted with quasi-judicial functions.	  Itis  equally ",well-settled that certiorari will not  lie  tocorrect	 the errors of a statutory body which  is  entrustedwith  purely  administrative functions.	 It  is,  therefore,necessary  to  ascertain the true nature  of  the  functionsentrusted to and exercised by the State Government under  s.53-A of the Act.In  Province of Bombay v. Kusaldas S. Advani this Court	 hasdiscussed at considerable length the nature of the two kindsof  act,  judicial  and administrative, and  has  laid	downcertain	 tests	for  ascertaining  whether  the	 act  of   astatutory  body is a quasijudicial actor  an  administrativeact.  It will, therefore,(1)  [1950] S.C.R, 621.1457suffice	 to refer to the celebrated definition of  a  quasi-judicial body given by Atkin L. J. as he then was, in Rex v.Electricity Commissioners and which now holds the field.  Itruns as follows"  Whenever  any body of persons having legal  authority  todetermine questions affecting rights of subjects, and havingthe  duty  to act judicially act in excess  of	their  legalauthority  they are subject to the controlling	jurisdictionof the King's Beneh -Division exercised in these writs."This  definition  was accepted as correct in Rex  v.  LondonCount?/	 Council  (2  ) and many subsequent  cases  both  inEngland	 and in this country.  It will be noticed that	thisdefinition insists on three requisites each of which must befulfilled  in order that the act of the body may be said  tobe quasi-judicial act, namely, that the body of persons	 (1)must  have  legal  authority,  (2)  to	determine  questionsaffecting the rights of parties, and (3) must have the	dutyto act judicially.  Since a writ of certiorari can be issuedonly  to correct the errors of a court or  a  quasi-judicialbody, it would follow that the real and determining test forascertaining  whether  an act authorised by a statute  is  aquasi-judicial	act or an administrative act is whether	 thestatute	  has  expressly  or  impliedly	 imposed  upon	 thestatutory body the duty to act judicially as required by thethird  condition  in  the definition given by  Atkin  L.  J.Therefore  in considering whether in taking action under  s.53-A  the State Government is to be regarded as	 functioningas  a quasi-judicial body or a mere administrative  body  ithas  to be ascertained whether the statute has expressly  orimpliedly  imposed upon the State Government a duty  to	 actjudicially.Relying	 on  paragraphs 114 and 115 of	Halsbury's  Laws  ofEngland,  3rd Edition, Volume 11, at pages 5558	 and  citingthe  case  of  R. v. Manchester	 Legal	Aid  Committee	(1),learned	 counsel  for the appellants contends that  where  astatute requires a decision to be arrived at purely from thepoint of view of policy or(1)  [1924] 1 K.B. 171.(3) [1952] 2(2)  [1931] 2 K.B. 215.413.1458expediency the authority is under no duty to act judicially.He urges that where, on the other hand, the order has to  bepassed on evidence either under an express provision of	 thestatute	 or by implication and determination  of  particularfacts  on  which  its jurisdiction  to	exercise  its  powerdepends	 or  if there is a proposal and	 an  opposition	 theauthority  is under a duty to act judicially.  As stated  inparagraph 115 of Halsbury's Laws of England, Volume 1 1,  atpage  57,  the duty to act judicially may  arise  in  widelydiffering  circumstances  which it would  be  impossible  toattempt to define exbaustively.	 The question whether or notthere  is a duty to act judicially must be decided  in	eachcase  in  the light of the circumstances of  the  particularcase and the construction of the particular statute with theassistance  of	the  general principles	 laid  down  in	 thejudicial  decisions.   The  principles	deducible  from	 thevarious	 judicial decisions considered by this Court in	 theProvince of Bombay v. K. S. Advani (1) at page 725 were thusformulated, namely:"  (i) that if a statute empowers an authority, not being  aCourt in the ordinary sense, to decide disputes arising	 outof  a claim made by one party under the statute which  claimis opposed by another party and to determine the  respectiverights	of  the contesting parties who are opposed  to	eachother, there is a lis and prima facie and in the absence  ofanything  in the statute to the contrary it is the  duty  ofthe  authority	to act judicially and the  decision  of	 theauthority is a quasijudicial act; and(ii)that  if a statutory authority has power to do any	actwhich will prejudicially affect the subject, then,  althoughthere  are not two parties apart from the authority and	 thecontest is between the authority proposing to do the act andthe  subject  opposing it, the final  determination  of	 theauthority  will	 yet be a quasi-judicial  act  provided	 theauthority is required by the statute to act judicially."It is clear that in the present case there is no question ofany  contest between two contending parties which the  StateGovernment is, under s. 53-A, to decide and,(1)[1950] S.C.R. 621.1459therefore,  there is no " lis " in the sense in	 which	thatword is understood generally, and the principle referred  tounder  the  first  heading has	no  application.   We  have,therefore,  to	consider whether the case comes	 within	 theprinciple enunciated under the second head, namely,  whetherthe  C. P. and Berar Municipalities Act, 1922, requires	 theState Government to act judicially when taking action  unders. 53-A.Learned counsel for the appellant draws our attention to thelanguage in which s. 53-A is couched.  He concedes that	 theultimate  order under that section is purely  discretionary,that  is to say the State Government is not obliged to	takeany action tinder the section.	It may make an order  Tenderthe  section or it may not according as it thinks fit.	 Butin  case  the  State Government chooses	 to  act  under	 thesection,  it can only do so if the conditions  therein	laiddown are fulfilled.  A cursory reading of s. 53-A will	showthat there are two prerequisites to be satisfied before	 theState Government can take action under s. 53-A, namely,	 (1)that the municipal committee is not competent to perform theduties	imposed	 on  it and (2) that  the  State  Governmentconsiders  that a general improvement in the  administrationof  the	 municipality  is  likely  to  be  secured  by	 theappointment of a servant of the Government as the  ExecutiveOfficer	 of the committee.  When both these  conditions	 arefulfilled, then and then only may the State Government	takeaction	and  make  an  order under  s.	53-A.	Of  the	 twoconditions the second one, by the very language in which  itis  expressed,	is  left entirely a  matter  for  the  StateGovernment to consider, for it depends entirely on the	viewof its own duty and responsibility that the State Governmentmay take on a consideration of the situation arising  beforeit.  In other words, the statute has left that matter to thesubjective determination of the State Government.  The firstrequisite,  however, is an objective fact,  namely,  whetherthe  committee is or is not competent to perform the  dutiesimposed on it. The determination of that fact, it is pointedout, has not been left to the subjective determination by1460the  State Government.	Learned counsel for  the  appellantsurges that if it were intended to leave the determination ofthis fact of incompetency also to the subjective opinion  ofthe  State  Government, the section would have	been  framedotherwise.  It would have said something like this: " If theState Government considers that a committee is not competentto  perform the duties and that the general  improvement  inthe administration of the municipalities is likely to besecured by This the Legislature has not done and has,  thus,clearly evinced an intention not to leave it to	  the	ipsedixit of State Government.  Section 53-A, it is pointed out,differs materially in this respect from s.   3 of the BombayLand Requisition Ordinance (V of 1947) which was  consideredby  this Court in Kusaldas Advani's casc (1).  That  sectionof  the Bombay ordinance opened with the words: " If in	 theopinion	 of the Provincial Government  which were  taken  asindicative  of	the  Legislature's intention  to  leave	 thedetermination  of  the	existence  of  all  the	  conditionsprecedent   entirely  to  the  subjective  opinion  of	 theProvincial  Government	so as to make the  action  a  purelyadministrative	 one.	The  argument  is  that	 the   firstrequirement  is the finding of a fact which may be called  ajurisdictional	fact,  so that the power under s.  53-A	 canonly   be  exercised  when  that  jurisdictional   fact	  isestablished to exist.  The determination of the existence ofthat  jurisdictional fact, it is contended, is not  left  tothe  subjective	 opinion of the State  Government  and	thatalthough the ultimate act is an administrative one the StateGovernment must at the preliminary stage of determining	 thejurisdictional	 fact  act  judicially	and   determine	  itobjectively,  that is to say, in a quasi-judicialay.  It  isassumed	 that whenever there has to be a determination of  afact  which affects the rights of the parties, the  decisionmust  be a quasijudicial decision, so as to be liable to  becorrected  by  a writ of certiorari.  In Advani's  case	 (1)Kania  C. J. with A hom Patanjali Sastri J. agreed, said  atpage 632 :" The respondent's argument that whenever there(1)  [1950] S.C.R. 621.1461is  a  determination of a fact which affects the  rights  ofparties, the decision is quasi-judicial, does not appear  tobe sound."Further down the learned Chief Justice saiddetermined  by	an  objective test and	when  that  decisionaffects	 rights	 of someone, the decision or act  is  quasi-judicial.   This  last statement overlooks the	aspect	thatevery  decision of the executive generally is a decision  offact and in most cases affects the rights of someone or	 theother.	 Because  an executive authority  has  to  determinecertain	 objective  facts  as  a  preliminary  step  in	 thedischarge of an executive function, it does not follow	thatit   must  determine  those  facts  judicially.	  When	 theexecutive  authority  has  to  form  an	 opinion  about	  anobjective matter as a preliminary step to the exercise of  acertain	 power	conferred on it, the  determination  of	 theobjective  fact and the exercise of the power based  thereonare alike matters of an administrative character and are notamenable  to the writ of certiorari." To the like effect  isthe following observation of Fazl Ali J. in the same case atpage 642:"  The mere fact that an executive authority has  to  decidesomething  does not make the decision judicial.	 It  is	 themanner	in  which the decision has to be  arrived  at  whichmakes  the  difference, and the real test is: Is  there	 anyduty  to decide judicially ?  As I have already said,  thereis  nothing  in the Ordinance to show  that  the  ProvincialGovernment  has to decide the existence of a public  purposejudicially or quasi-judicially."Dealing	 with  the  essential characteristics  of  a  quasi-judicial act as opposed to an administrative act, I said  atpage 719:features.   Thus a person entrusted to do an  administrativeact  has often to determine questions of fact to enable	 himto  exercise  his  power.   He has  to	consider  facts	 andcircumstances and to weigh pros and cons in his mind  beforehe makes up his mind to exercise his power just as a  personexercising a judicial or1462quasi-judicial function has to do.  Both have to act in goodfaith.	- A good and valid administrative or  executive	 actbinds  the  subject  and  affects  his	rights	or   imposesliability on him just as effectively as a quasijudicial	 actdoes.	The exercise of an administrative or  executive	 actmay  well  be  and  is	frequently  made  dependent  by	 theLegislature  upon  a  condition	 or  contingency  which	 mayinvolve	 a question of fact, but the question of  fulfilmentof  which  may,	 nevertheless, be  left	 to  the  subjectiveopinion	 or satisfaction of the executive authority, as	 wasdone  in the several Ordinances, regulations and  enactmentsconsidered  and construed in the several cases	referred  toabove.	The first two items of the definition given by AtkinL.  J. may be equally applicable to an	administrative	act.The real test which distinguishes a quasi-judicial act	froman  administrative  act is the third item in Atkin  L.	J.'sdefinition,  namely,  the duty to act judicially."  I  foundsupport for my opinion on the following passage occurring inthe  judgment  of  Lord Hewart C. J. in	 B.  v.	 LegislativeCommittee of the ChurchAssembly (1):"  In order that a body may satisfy the required test it  isnot enough that it should have legal authority to  determinequestions  affecting the rights of subjects; there  must  besuper-added    to    that   characteristic    the    furthercharacteristic	 that	the  body  has	the  duty   to	 actjudicially."The above passage was quoted with approval by Lord Radcliffein  delivering the judgment of the Privy Council in  NakkudaAli's caseI now proceed to apply the principles discussed above to thefacts  of  the	present	 case.	The  simple  fact  that	 theincompetency  of  the  committee goes to  the  root  of	 thejurisdiction  of the State Government to exercise its  powerunder  s.  53-A	 does not require that	that  fact  must  bedetermined  judicially.	  The  sole question  is,  does	 thestatute	 require  the State Government	to  act	 judicially.There  need  not  be any express provision  that  the  StateGovernment  must act judicially.  It will be  sufficient  ifthis duty may be(1) [1928] 1 K.B. 411, 415.(2) [1951] A.C. 66.1463implied	 from the provisions of the statute.  The mere	factthat  a	 question  of  fact  has  to  be  determined  as   apreliminary  condition before action can be taken under	 thestatute	 by itself does not carry that	implication.   Theremust  be some indication in the statute as to the manner  ormode  in which the preliminary fact is to be determined.   Ifind  nothing in s. 53-A which in terms imposes any duty  onthe  State  Government	to  act	 judicially.   No  form	  ofprocedure is laid down or even referred to from which such aduty could be inferred.	 On the contrary, one finds a signi-ficant omission of any provision like that embodied in	sub-s.  (5)	 of s. 57 which requires that no  order	 under	thatsection	 shall	be passed until reasonable  opportunity	 hasbeen  given to the committee to furnish an explanation.	  Itis  also material to note that whereas an order under s.  57is of a permanent character the one to be made under s. 53-Ais  to be of a limited duration, i.e., for such	 period	 notexceeding  IS  months  as may be specified  in	such  order.Further,  s. 53-A contemplates swift action and	 a  judicialhearing	 may easily frustrate the very purpose	contemplatedby s. 53-A, for a judicial act will be subject to the powersof superintendence of the superior courts and the  operationof the order under s. 53-A may be postponed, as it has	beendone in this very case, by taking, the matter from court  tocourt  until  it  is set at rest by  this  Court.   In	thisconnection reference may also be made to s. 25-A of the	 Actwhich  authorises  the	State  Government  to  require	 thecommittee to appoint, inter alia, a Chief Executive Officer.If  such  committee  fails to comply  with  the	 requisitionwithin the period specified, the State Government may, undersub-s.	(3), if it thinks fit, appoint such officer and	 fixhis pay and allowance.	Sub-section (4) authorises the StateGovernment  to	require	 the committee to  delegate  to	 theofficer	 so appointed such powers, duties and  functions  ofthe   committee,  its  president,  vice-president   or	 thesecretary  under  this	Act  or any  rule  or  bye-law	madethereunder  as may be specified in such requisition  and  ifthe committee fails to comply with such requisition within areasonable time, the State Government1861464may  determine the powers, duties and functions which  shallbe exercised and performed by such officer in addition to orto  the	 exclusion  of	their  exercise	 or  performance  bycommittee,  its	 president,  vice-president  or	  secretary.Nobody will say that the State Government must exercise	 thepowers	under  s. 25-A after holding any  judicial  enquiry.The  only difference in the language of s. 25-A and s.	53-Aboth  of  which	 were inserted in the Act in  1947  is	thataction can be taken under s. 53-A only when the committee isincompetent  to perform the duties imposed on it a fact	 thedetermination  of which is not in so many words left to	 thesubjective  opinion of the State Government, whereas  actioncan be taken under s. 25-A on the satisfaction of the  StateGovernment  as to certain facts which is, in terms, left  tothe  subjective determination of the State Government.	 If,as  I have said, the determination of a jurisdictional	factis  not by itself sufficient to indicate that, it has to  bedone judicially, there is nothing else in s. 53-A or in	 anyother  section of the Act which will lead to the  conclusionthat  the  State Government must act judicially.   The	onlyother  thing strongly relied on by learned counsel  for	 theappellants  is	that the State Government may  exercise	 itspower  under s. 53-A " by an order stating reasons  thereforpublished  in the Gazette ". The requirement that the  StateGovernment must give reasons for the order it makes does notnecessarily  require  it  to record  a	judgment  judiciallyarrived	 at.  The legislature might well have  thought	thatpublic	policy required that the State Government  entrustedwith  large administrative power should record	its  reasonsfor  exercising the same so as to allay any misgivings	thatmay  arise in the mind of the public.  In my  judgment,	 theaction taken by the State Government under s. 53-A is not  ajudicial or quasi-judicial act but is an administrative act.Learned	 counsel  for the appellants relied on the  case  ofCapel  v.  Child (1).  That decision clearly went  upon	 theconstruction of the statute that came up for  consideration.The  fact that action could be taken under that	 statute  onaffidavits(1)  2 Cr. & Jr, 558; 37 R. R. 761.1465was  construed as a clear indication that the Bishop had  toarrive	at a decision as to the negligence of the  Vicar  onhearing evidence adduced before it by affidavit which led tothe  next  conclusion  that  the  Vicar	 must  be  given  anopportunity  of being heard and of adducing evidence in	 hisown  defence.  From this circumstance it was  inferred	thateven when the Bishop acted on his knowledge of fact he	mustalso  proceed,	judicially, for the two modes  of  procedurewere treated on the same footing by the section itself.	  AsI  have said, there is nothing in s. 53-A or any other	sec-tion which may lead us to infer a duty to proceed judiciallyas  was	 done  in  that case.  On  the	contrary  there	 areindications leading to a different conclusion.To  say	 that  action  to  be taken  under  s.	53-A  is  anadministrative	 action	 is  not  to  say  that	 the   StateGovernment  has	 not to observe the ordinary rules  of	fairplay.  Reference to the observation made by Fortesque J.  inDr.  Bentley's	case about God asking Adam and	Eve  whetherthey had eaten the forbidden fruit appearing in the judgmentof  Byles J. in Cooper v. The Wandsworth Board of Works	 (1)is  apposite.	The  decision in  the  last  mentioned	caseclearly	 establishes that in some cases it may be  necessaryto give an opportunity to a party to have his say before at)administrative	action	is taken against him.  But  that  isquite  different from the well-ordered	procedure  involvingnotice	and opportunity of hearing necessary to be  followedbefore	a  quasi-judicial action, open to  correction  by  asuperior  court	 by means of a writ, of certiorari,  can  betaken.	 The difference lies in the manner and mode  of	 thetwo procedures.	 For the breach of the rules of fair play intaking	administrative action a writ of certiorari will	 notlie.I  have	 already recounted the events and  proceedings	thatpreceded the actual passing of the order under s. 53-A.	  Ifthe action taken tinder that section is to be regarded as anadministrative	action, as I hold it should be, then I	haveno  doubt that the appellants have had more than fair  play.It  is	said  that the State Government	 did  not  hold	 anyenquiry before(1)  [1863] 14 C.B. (N.S.) 180; 143 E. R. 414.1466making	the  order and that, therefore, it can-not  be	saidthat the appellants had an opportunity to defend  themselvesagainst an order of this kind.	I do not consider that thereis   any  substance  in	 this  contention.   If	 the   StateGovernment wanted to hold any enquiry it would do so throughsome  of  its officers.	 Who would be more  appropriate	 andcompetent  to  hold the enquiry except the officers  on	 thespot  ?	 The Additional Deputy Collector  is  obviously	 theperson	to  whom  the  duty of	enquiry	 could	properly  beentrusted.  All the charges levelled against the  appellantswere forwarded to them, and they submitted explanation.	 Thefirst  appellant, who is the President, personally  attendedmany of the sittings.  There is no suggestion that they	 hadbeen prevented from adducing evidence in their own  defence,The  enquiry  was held into what had  been  alleged  againsttheir conduct.	It was surely not a purposeless enquiry.  Asa  result  of the enquiry certain findings were	 arrived  atwhich were accepted by the State Government and an order wasmade  under  s.	 53-A.	 I do not  see	what  grievance	 theappellants can possibly have.  In my judgment there has beenno remissness on the part of the State Government.For reasons stated above I would dismiss this appeal.BHAGWATI  J.-.I	 also  agree  that  the	 appeal	 should	  bedismissed with costs but would like to add a few words of myown.I have had the benefit of reading the judgments prepared  bymy Lord the Chief Justice, Kapur J. and Subba Rao J. I agreewith  the  reasoning and the conclusions  reached  in  thosejudgments in regard to points Nos. (i) & (ii), viz.,(i)that though the Notification purports to have been madein exercise of the powers conferred on the State  Governmentby  s.	53-A, in substance and in reality it has  been	madeunder s. 57 of the Act; and,(ii)that  if the Notification is held to be one made  unders.  57	it  is	ultra vires  and  bad  since  the  statutoryrequirement  of affording reasonable opportunity to  explainhas not been complied with.1467In regard to point No. (iii), viz.,(iii)that even if the impugned Notification be held  tocome  within  s. 53-A it is still ultra vires  since  beforepromulgating it the State Government has committed a  breachof   the  rules	 of  natural  justice  in  not	giving	 anyopportunity to the appellants to defend themselves, however,there  is a difference of opinion between my Lord the  ChiefJustice	 and Kapur J. on the one hand, and Subba Rao  J.  onthe  other, as to the character of the act performed by	 theState  Government while arriving at the conclusion that	 theCommittee is not competent to perform the duties imposed  onit or undertaken by it.	 Whereas the former are of the	viewthat  in  arriving at such conclusion the  State  Governmentperforms  only an administrative function, the latter is  ofthe  view  that	 the  fact  whether  the  committee  is	 notcompetent to perform the duties imposed on it or  undertakenby  it	is  a jurisdictional fact and in  arriving  at	thatconclusion  the State Government performs  a  quasi-judicialfunction.  In my opinion, the determination of the  questionwhether the State Government performs an administrative or aquasi-judicial	function in the matter of arriving  at	suchconclusion  is immaterial for the purposes of  this  appeal,inasmuch  as  an inquiry had been instituted  by  the  StateGovernment in the matter of the charges levelled against theappellants  and full opportunity had been given to  them  todefend	themselves.  I need not add anything in this  regardto  what has been said by my Lord the Chief Justice  in	 thejudgment just delivered by him.	 I only wish to say that thecircumstances adverted to therein amply demonstrate that theappellants had notice of the charges which had been levelledagainst them and had rendered full explanation in regard  tothe  same,  and, in the matter of the inquiry in  regard  tothose  charges	the principles of natural justice  had	beencomplied  with	and  the conclusion  reached  by  the  StateGovernment  in	the  matter  of	 the  incompetence  of	 thecommittee was unassailable.That being so, I would prefer not to express any opinion  onthe vexed question as to whether the act1468performed  by  the  State Government  is  quasi-judicial  oradministrative in character.The result, however, is the same and I agree with the  orderproposed dismissing the appeal with costs.S.K.  DAS  J.-I	 agree	generally  with	 the  conclusionsreached	 by  my Lord the Chief Justice and  the	 reasons  onwhich  those conclusions are founded.  But I wish to  add  afew  words with regard to the third question, namely, if  inmaking	the  impugned  notification,  the  State  Governmentviolated  the principles of natural justice.  The answer  tothat  question depends on whether on a true construction  ofthe  relevant  statute, the State  Government  performed  anadministrative	function  or what has been called  a  quasi-judicial function in making the impugned notification.I  am  of  the	view that the  action  taken  by  the  StateGovernment under s. 53-A of the Act is in its true nature anadministrative act.  It is said that where there is ' a dutyto  act	 judicially ', the function is	quasijudicial:	thathowever	 does  not help us very much  in  understanding	 thedistinction between an administrative function and a  quasi-judicial function.  Where the statute clearly indicates thatthe  function is judicial, there is little difficulty.	 Thedifficulty arises in cases where the point taken is that  bynecessary implication the statute requires an administrativebody or executive authority to act judicially.	It is indeedGenerally  correct to say that where an administrative	bodyor authority is under a duty to act judicially, its functionis judicial or quasi-judicial.	But it is, to some extent, atautology  to  say that the function is judicial  or  quasi-judicial if it is to be done judicially.To get to the bottom of the distinction, we must go a littledeeper	into  the  content of the expression  'duty  to	 actjudicially  '. As has been repeated so often,  the  questionmay  arise in widely differing circumstances and a  precise,clear-cut or exhaustive definition of the expression is	 notpossible.   But	 in  decisions	dealing	 with  the  questionseveral tests have been laid down; for example-1469(i)  whether there is a lis inter partes(ii) whether  there  is	 a claim  (or  proposition)  and  anopposition;(iii)whether  the  decision  is to be  founded	on  thetaking of evidence or on affidavits;(iv)whether the decision is actuated in whole or in part byquestions  of  policy or expediency, and if so,	 whether  inarriving at the decision, the statutory body has to considerproposals and objections and evidence; and(v)whether in arriving at its decision, the statutory bodyhas  only to consider policy and expediency and at no  stagehas before it any form of lis.The  last two tests were discussed and considered in  R.  v.Manchester  Legal Aid Committee (1).  It is fairly clear  tome  that tests (i) to (iv) are inappropriate in the  presentcase  by reason of the provisions in s. 53-A ,is  contrastedwith s. 57 and other sections of the Act.  The test which isfulfilled  in the present case is test (v), and	 that  makesthe function under s. 53-A a purely administrative  functionin spite of the requirement of an initial determination of ajurisdictional	fact  and the recording of reasons  for	 thedecision.I am content to rest my decision on the aforesaid ground, asI  am  not  satisfied that the enquiry held  by	 the  DeputyCollector  was a proper enquiry if it be held that  s.	53-Aentrusts  a quasi-judicial function to the State  Governmentand  therefore	requires compliance with the  principles  ofnatural	 justice.  That enquiry was for a different  purposealtogether,  the charges were not the same, and in  my	viewthe  Municipal Committee had no real opportunity of  meetingthe  charges on which the State Government  ultimately	tookaction.	  I  prefer, therefore, to base my decision  on	 thethird  question on the short ground that the function  whichthe   State   Government  exercised  under   s.	  53-A	 wasadministrative	in  nature and it is settled law  that	suchaction is not amenable to a writ of certiorari.On the first two questions I am in entire agreement(1)[1952] 2 Q.B. 4I3.1470with  my Lord the Chief Justice and have nothing  useful  toadd.KAPUR J.-This appeal pursuant to special leave of this Courtis  directed  against the judgment and order of	 the  MadhyaPradesh	 High  Court.	The  appellants	 are  the  MunicipalCommittee of Dhamtari and its President Radheshyam Khare whoare challenging the order of the State Government of  MadhyaPradesh	 appointing  an Executive Officer of  the  MunicipalCommittee under s. 53-A of the C. P. & Berar  MunicipalitiesAct (Act 11 of 1922) to be termed in this judgment, the Act.The  facts leading to this appeal are that one Dhurmal	Dagawho  was  a  member  of	 the  Dhamtari	Municipal  Committee(appellant  No.	 2)  was found	importing  cotton  into	 themunicipal area without paying octroi duty.  He then went  onhunger	 strike	 and  also  distributed	  pamphlets   makingallegations against both the appellants.  At this stage	 theCollector  of  Raipur  district	 personally  intervened	 andpersuaded  Dhurmal  Daga to break his fast on  an  assurancethat he (the Collector) would look into his allegations.  Inpursuance of that assurance Mr. Rana, Deputy Collector	heldan  enquiry  and called the explanation	 of  tile  MunicipalCommittee  and	its President and submitted  his  report  onNovember  22,  1956,  which  was  forwarded  to	 the   StateGovernment   on	 April	24,  1957.   The  State	  Governmentthereupon  took	 action under s. 53-A of the Act  and  by  anotification  dated  November 18, 1957, appointed  a  DeputyCollector  B. P. Jain respondent No. 3 as Executive  Officerof  the	 Dhamtari  Municipal Committee for a  period  of  18months	on  the	 ground that  the  Municipal  Committee	 wasincompetent in the performance of its duties under the	Act.The relevant part of the notification was as follows:"  Whereas  it	appears to the	State  Government  that	 theMunicipal Committee, Dhamtari, has proved itself incompetentto perform the duties imposed on it by or under the  CentralProvinces  and Berar Municipalities Act, 1922 (11 of  1922),inasmuch as it-(a)  granted grain and building advances to theI1471employees  without prior sanction and no efforts  were	madefor their recovery,(b)showed  carelessness in cases of embezzlements  of  theemployees and did not report such cases to Government,(c)failed  to control the President who issued	orders	incases in which he had no authority,(d)spent thousands of rupees on sanitation and other worksalthough there was no provision in the budget,(e)allowed   unconcerned  persons  to  interfere  in   itsworking,(f)showed partiality in the appointment and dismissals	ofthe employees, further such appointments and dismissals weremade against rules,(g)delayed  the	 constitution  of the  committee  and  theframing of budget,(h)  misused the trucks of the municipality,(i)  failed to recover the lease money,(j)  shown partiality in the issue of transit passesto  certain traders, further excess octroi duty was  chargedon  certain articles and in certain cases where octroi	dutyis not leviable it was levied just to harass the people,(k)distributed municipal manure to certain persons withoutany  charge, similarly distributed the manure free  of	costand used the truck of the municipality for this purpose,(1)failed to control its president who spent the money	ofthe municipal Committee without any authority,(m)spent  huge amount on the maintenance of the roads  anddrainage but their condition has remained unsatisfactory,(n)failed to give copies of the documents as allowed underrules,	also  failed  to allow its members  to	inspect	 therecords as is permissible under rules,(o) failed to invite tenders of purchase of articles."This order of the State Government was challenged under Art.226 in the Madhya Pradesh High Court on the allegation	thatthe order passed by the State Government constituted1871472" a flagrant abuse of the powers conferred under section 53-A of the Municipalities Act.  The charges enumerated in	 thenotification  were never framed.  The State  Government	 didnot  serve  any	 notice on the Municipal  Committee  or	 itsPresident  to show cause against the charges nor  were	theyafforded any opportunity to have their say in the matter."The   appellants  submitted  that  the	finding	 about	 theincompetency  of  the  committee  was  vitiated	 because  noenquiry	 was  held  and there was  no  evidence	 in  supportthereof and the order was void and inoperative because(1)" there is non-observance of the mandatory  provisions.The   power  has  not  been  exercised	within	the   limitsprescribed.(2)  there is no determination of the basic facts.(3)  there is a violation of the rules of natural justice.(4) the action is mala fide."The  respondents denied the allegations and  submitted	thatthe State Government made the order under s. 53-A of the Acton  the	 report of Mr. Rana, Deputy Collector  who  held  anenquiry	 into  the allegations made  against  the  appellantunder  the  orders of the Collector of Raipur;	that  propernotice was given to the Secretary of the Municipal Committeewhich  filed  its Written Statement  through  its  Presidentappellant   No.	 1  who	 appeared  personally	during	 theproceedings of the enquiry, but no opportunity for " leadingany  evidence"	was  demanded by the appellant	nor  was  itdenied.	  They	also  pleaded that  no	formal	enquiry	 wasrequired under the law and that the Court could not go	intothe  sufficiency  or  otherwise of the	reasons	 for  takingaction " and the same will not be enquired into by the Courtobjectively."A  learned  Single  Judge of the High  Court  dismissed	 thepetition holding that whatever be the position under s.	 57,under s. 53-A no explanation was required to be called	fromthe  municipal	committee  and	the  State  Government	 wasauthorised  under the law to act promptly.  The	 High  Courtnegatived  the	allegation  that the  State  Government	 hadproceeded against1473the Municipal Committee, appellant No. 2, at the instance ofDhurmal Daga.  The learned Judgesaid:"  I  have  gone through the material  on  which  the  StateGovernment  based  its action on enquiry  into	the  chargeslevelled against the municipal committee and find that therewere several other complaints besides those made by  DhurmalDaga.	The  record  of	 the  enquiry  shows  that  on	someoccasions the petitioner was present during the enquiry.   Iam satisfied that the invocation of the power of this  Courtunder  Art.  226  of the Constitution is  not  open  to	 thepresent petitioner ".A Letters Patent appeal against this judgment was  dismissedon February 21, 1958.The appellants have come in appeal to this Court by  specialleave and have raised four points before us:(1)That the notification though it purports to be under s.53- A of the Act is really under s. 57 which is shown by thegrounds given in the notification, the powers vested in	 theExecutive Officer and by theeffect of the order ;(2)and	if  it is a notification under s. 57 it	 is  ultravires because the statutory requirements of the section	 hadnot been complied with;(3)  even if the notification be held to be unders.53-A	of  the	 Act  it was  still  null  and	void  andinoperative as it violated the principles of natural justiceand(4)that	 the order made was mala fide inasmuch as  it  hadbeen  passed  with  an ulterior object of  taking  away	 thecontrol of the municipality from the lndependent Party whichwas  in a majority and that this was in accordance with	 thepolicy	adopted	 by the State Government of  superseding  orsuspending  municipalities which were not controlled by	 theCongress Party.	 As further proof of the mala fides of	Res-pondent	 No.  1, the State Government, it was  alleged	thatRadheshyam  Khare  appellant  No. 1 was	 expelled  from	 theCongress  Part for six years in about March 1957 because  hestood as an Independent1474candidate  for election to the Lower House of Parliament  inthe 1957 elections.The  allegation of mala fides was not seriously pressed	 noris there any material to sustain it.In order to decide the other questions raised in this appealit  is	necessary to examine the scheme of the Act  and	 itsprovisions relating to the powers of the State Government inregard to municipal committees.	 Chapter I of the Act  makesprovisions for the constitution of municipalities.   Section4  empowers the State Government to signify by	notificationit,-,	intention   to	declare	 a  local  area	 to   be   amunicipality,  to alter its limits or to withdraw the  wholeof it from a municipality.  Section 5 gives the right to theinhabitants  of such local area to file	 objections  againstanything contained in the notification within a period of  6weeks and after consideration of such objections if any, theState	Government   can  confirm,  vary  or   reverse	 itsnotification  under  S.	 4.  Sections  6  to  8	 deal	withconsequential  orders  on inclusion and exclusion  of  localareas:Section	 9  authorises	the State Government  to  give	suchpowers to a municipality as in its opinion it is suited for.It provides:" If the circumstances of any municipality are such that, inthe  opinion of the State Government, any provision of	thisAct  is	 unsuited  thereto, the	 State	Government  may,  bynotification:(a)withdraw  the  operation  of that  provision	 from  themunicipality;(b)apply that provision to the Municipality in a  modifiedform to be specified in such notification ;(c)make	 any additional provision for the municipality	inrespect	 of the matter mentioned in the provision which	 hasbeen  withdrawn from, or applied in a modified form to,	 themunicipality."Chapter	 II  deals  with the membership	 of  committees	 andchapter	 III with Subordinate Agencies.	 Under this  chapterfall  Sub-Committees,  Presidents  and	other  officers	  ofMunicipal  Committees.	 Section 25-A which deals  with	 theappointment of a Chief Executive Officer, Health Officer  orSupervisor is as under:		     1475(1)"  The  State Government may, if in	its  opinion  -theappointment of-(a)a  Chief  Executive Officer is  necessary  for  generalimprovement	in     the     administration	  of	 themunicipality.................. and it is satisfied that	 thestate  of the municipal fund justifies expenditure  on	suchappointment,  require  the  committee to  appoint  any	suchofficer.(2)A  requisition  under sub-section (1) shall	state  theperiod	within which the committee shall  comply  therewith.(3)If  the committee fails to comply with the  requisitionwithin	the stated period, the State Government may,  if  itthinks	fit,  appoint  such  officer  at  the  cost  of	 thecommittee  and fix his pay and allowances, the rate  of	 hiscontribution  to the provident fund or to. his	pension	 andother conditions of service.(4)The	State  Government  may require	the  committee	todelegate  to  the Chief Executive  Officer  ................appointed  under  this	section	 such  powers,	duties	 andfunctions  of  the committee, president,  vicepresident,  orsecretary  under  this	Act  or any  rule  or  bye-law	madethereunder  as may be specified in such requisition, and  ifthe committee fails to comply with such requisition within areasonable  time, the State Government may  determine  whichpowers,	  duties  and  functions  shall	 be  exercised	 andperformed  by  such  officer  in  addition  to,	 or  to	 theexclusion   of,	 their	exercise  and  performance  by	 thecommittee, president, vice-president or secretary.(5)The secretary of the committee shall be subordinate	tothe Chief Executive Officer.(6)The provisions of subsection (5) of section 53-A  shallapply  to the Chief Executive Officer or Health	 Officer  orSupervisor appointed under this section ".Chapter	 IV  deals  with the procedure	to  be	followed  inCommittee  Meetings, chapter V with property, contracts	 andliabilities  and  chapter  VI  with  duties  of	 committees.Chapter	 VIII  is  headed " Control  ".	 It  prescribes	 theauthorities  which  have the power to control  the  acts  ofcommittees and also lays down the1476extent	of  such  control and the method  of  its  exercise.Section	 52  gives to the Deputy Commissioner the  power  toexamine	 the  proceedings of  committees  or  subcommittees.Section	 53  empowers a Deputy Commissioner to	suspend	 theexecution  of  any order or resolution of a committee  or  asubcommittee and prescribes the circumstances in which	thispower  can be exercised.  Then comes s. 53-A which  empowersthe  appointment  of  an  Executive  Officer  by  the  StateGovernment.   Section  54  provides  that  in  the  case  ofemergency  the.	  State Government, on the  receipt  of	 thereport	under s. 52 or otherwise may require a	municipalityto execute any work or perform any act which in its  opinionis necessary for the service of the public.  Under s. 55 theState Government if satisfied after receiving a report unders. 52 or after enquiry if any that a municipal committee hasmade  default  in performing its duties may appoint  "	someperson	to perform " the duty and can direct  the  municipalcommittee  to pay reasonable remuneration to the  person  soappointed.  If default is made in any such payment the StateGovernment can under s. 56 direct a person having custody ofmunicipal  funds to make such payment.	Section 57  empowersthe  State  Government to dissolve and/or to  supersede	 themunicipal   committee.	 Section  58  gives  to	 the   StateGovernment the power of revision and an overall control overthe  actions of officers acting or taking any  action  underthe  Act.  But it cannot reverse any order unless notice  isgiven  to  the parties interested and they  are	 allowed  toappear	and  be heard.	Section 58-A  authorises  the  StateGovernment to enforce its orders.  Section 58-B gives to theState  Government  the power of review of orders  passed  byitself	and  Commissioners  and	 Deputy	 Commissioners	havesimilar	 powers of reviewing their own orders provided	thatno  order  shall  be varied unless notice is  given  to	 theparties interested to appear and be heard in support of	 theorder.Under s. 59 certain officers appointed by general or specialorders	of the State Government are entitled to	 attend	 anymeeting of the committee and address1477it  on any matter affecting the work of	 their	departments.Section	 60 provides for the settlement of disputes  betweenthe committees and other local bodies.As ss. 53-A and 57 are the subject matter of controversy  inthis case it is necessary to quote them in full :Section	 53-A  "  (1) If a committee  is  not  competent  toperform	 the duties imposed on it or undertaken by it by  orunder this Act or any other enactment for the time being  inforce  and  the State Government considers  that  a  generalimprovement  in	 the administration of the  municipality  islikely to be secured by the appointment of a servant of	 theGovernment  as the executive officer of the  Committee,	 theState  Government  may,	 by an	order  stating	the  reasonstherefor  published in the Gazette, appoint such servant  asthe  executive officer of the committee for such period	 notexceeding eighteen months as may be specified in such order.(2)Any	executive officer appointed under  subsection  (1)shall  be deemed to be an officer lent to the  committee  byGovernment under sub-section (3) of section  25.(3)When under subsection (1) an executive officer    isappointed  for	any committee, the  State  Government  shalldetermine  from	 time  to  time	 which	powers,	 duties	 andfunctions  of  the committee, president,  vice-president  orsecretary  under  this	Act  or any rule  or  bye  law	madethereunder shall be exercised and performed by such officer,in  addition to, or to the exclusion of, their exercise	 andperformance by the said committee. president, vice-presidentor secretary.(4)The Secretary of the committee shall be subordinate	tothe executive officer.(5)The executive officer shall have the right toattendall  meetings  of	 the  committee	 and  any  jointcommitteeand to take part in the discussion so as to makean  explanation in regard to the subject  under	 discussion,but  shall  not move, second, or vote on any  resolution  orother motion ".Section 57 which gives power to the Government1478to dissolve or supersede the municipality is as follows:"  (1)	If  a  committee is not	 competent  to	perform,  orpersistently makes default in the performance of, the dutiesimposed	 on  it or undertaken by it under this	Act  or	 anyother  enactment for the time being in force, or exceeds  orabuses	its powers to a grave extent, the  State  Governmentmay,  by an order stating the reasons therefor published  inthe Official Gazette, dissolve such committee and may  ordera fresh election to take place.(2)If after fresh elections the new committee continues tobe  incompetent	 to  perform,  or to  make  default  in	 theperformance  of,  such	duties or exceeds  or  abuse.,;	 itspowers	to a grave extent, the State Government may,  by  anorder stating the reasons therefor published in the OfficialGazette,  declare  the	committee to be	 incompetent  or  indefault,  or to have exceeded or abused its powers,  as	 thecase  may be, and supersede it for a period to be  specifiedin the order.(3)If  a  committee  is so dissolved  or  superseded,  thefollowing consequences shall ensue:(a)all members of the committee shall, as from the date ofthe order, vacate their offices as such members;(b)all	powers and duties of the committee may, until  thecommittee  is reconstituted, be exercised and  performed  bysuch  person or persons as the State Government may  appointin that behalf;(c)all property vested in it shall until the committee	isreconstituted vest in the State Government.(4)On  the  expiration	of  the	 period	 of   supersessionspecified  in  the order, the committee shall  be  reconsti-tuted,	and  the  persons who vacated  their  offices  undersubsection  (3), clause (a), shall not, by reason solely  ofsuch supersession be deemed disqualified for being members.(5)No  order under subsection (1) or subsection (2)  shallbe  passed. until reasonable opportunity has been  given  tothe committee to furnish an explanation.(6)  Any person or persons appointed by the State1479Government to exercise and perform the powers and duties  ofa dissolved or superseded committee may receive payment,  ifthe  state Government so directs for his or  their  servicesfrom the municipal fund."A  review of all these provisions shows that under  the	 Actthe   municipalities   are  not	  independent	corporationsexercising powers unregulated by Governmental control.	Theyconfer regulatory authority on the State Government to	keepcontrol	 over municipalities, the extent of control and	 themode  of its exercise being dependent on  circumstances	 andexpediency  varying with the exigencies of every case.	 TheStatute	 leaves	 the discretion to the State  Government  tochoose the action to be taken and the provision under  whichit  is	to be taken.  Wherever the legislature	intended  anenquiry	 to  be held before taking any action  provision  ismade for it and wherever it intended a person to be  allowedto appear and be heard it has specifically provided for	 it.Generally  speaking  excepting	where all  order  is  to  bereversed qua a particular person, there is no provision	 fora  hearing.  The nature and extent of regulatory  powers  ofthe  State  Government and the mode of	their  exercise	 arematters of policy and expediency and indicate the taking  ofadministrative	action by the State Government and  not	 theexercise  of  any  judicial power  and	would  therefore  beexcluded  from judicial review. Counsel for  the  appellantsfirstly	 submitted  that although the State  Government	 haspurported  to act under s. 53-A, in fact and in reality	 theorder  falls under s. 57 and because the provisions of	sub-section	 (5) have not been complied with, the order  of	 theState Government is illegal, null and void.  A comparison ofthe-two	 sections  53-A and 57 shows the difference  in	 thepowers	exercisable  by the State Government under  the	 twosections and the consequences that result therefrom.   Unders. 53-A all that the State Government does is to appoint fora  period  of  not more than eighteen  months  an  ExecutiveOfficer who exercises such powers under the Act as are	men-tioned in the order which may be in addition to or to1881480the exclusion of their exercise by the municipality, etc., a  power  also exercisable under s. 25-A or  to  a  limiteddegree	under  s.  9. Under s. 57  the	municipal  committeeitself is dissolved and may be superseded in which case	 itsmembers	 cease	to exist and vacate their  offices  and	 thepowers	and  duties of the municipal committee	then  becomevested in the person or persons appointed for the purpose bythe  State  Government and its property also  vests  in	 theState Government.  These consequences do not follow an orderUnder  s.  53-A.  But it is submitted that  in	reality	 theresult	is  the same because of the powers which  under	 thenotification  have been given to the Executive	Officer	 andwhat  is  left with the Committee is only "husk".   If	thiswere so then whenever any action is taken whether under s. 9of  the Act or under s. 25-A in conceivable cases  it  wouldamount to supersession of the municipal committee and  wouldtherefore  fall	 under	s. 57 which  argurment	was  neithersubmitted nor is tenable.  According to the language of	 thetwo  sections,	53- A and 57 of the Act the two	 classes  ofactions	 contemplated  are  quite  different  and  differentconsequences  follow;  one should not be confused  with	 theother.	The contention that the action taken under s.  53-Ais colourable and the matter really falls under s.     57 isan allegation of mala fides which has not been made out.  Ifthe  statute gives to the state Government powers under	 itsvarious	 provisions and the State Government chooses in	 itsdiscretion to use one rather than the other it is beyond thepower of any court to contest that discretion unless a	caseof  abuse is made out (per Lord Halsbury L. C. in the  West-minster Corporation v. London and North Western Railway	 Co.(1)).	And it cannot on that ground alone be held to  be  amala fide act.A  great deal of stress was laid by the appellants'  counselon  the	 withdrawal of the powers of  the  municipality	 andparticularly  under  s.	 31 and it was	contended  that	 theCommittee would not be able to hold its monthly meetings  asrequired  under that section.  It is difficult to  interpretthe notification in this manner,(1)[1905] A.C. 426.1481because	 ,so  interpreted it would mean that  the  ExecutiveOfficer	 alone will meet for the transaction of business  atleast once a month which would amount to an absurdity.	 Thereference in the notification must be to sub-section (2)  ofs. 31 which deals with the power of the President, etc.,  tocall a meeting suo motu or on the requisition of a fifth  ofthe  members.	Similarly the mention of Chapter  V  in	 thenotification  cannot vest the property of the  committee  inthe  Executive Officer.	 The notification deals with  powersand  duties  and not with the vesting of property.   It	 mayhowever be mentioned that even where no Executive Officer isappointed  by  the State Government it can direct  that	 anyproperty  vested  in the municipality shall cease to  be  sovested	and  it	 can  make such	 orders	 as  it	 thinks	 fitregarding  the disposal and management of such property	 (s.38).  No doubt the powers under s. 39, which deals with	 themanagement of public institutions, powers and duties of	 themunicipality, are taken away and are vested in the ExecutiveOfficer	 but these powers in any case are subject  to  rulesmade  by  Government and these rules are always	 subject  tochange by the State Government.	 The powers of the municipalcommittee  under s. 40 to request the State  Government	 foracquisition  under the Land Acquisition Act have  also	beenwithdrawn.   Section  41 deals with transfers  of  municipalproperty  to  the  Government and s. 42 with  power  of	 themunicipality  to transfer municipal property but under	thatsection	 the control of the State is not excluded even	whenthere  is no Executive Officer.	 Section 44 deals with	the''Making of contracts and the other sections in that  chapterdo  not	 deal  with the powers and duties.  of	a  municipalcommittee excepting s. 49.  Chapter VI prescribes the dutiesof  a municipal committee and some of those also  have	beenvested	in  the Executive Officer.  There is no	 doubt	thatsome  very  important powers have by the  notification	beentaken away from the municipal committee and have been vestedin the Executive Officer but that is a far step from  sayingthat  the  committee  has  thereby  been  suspended.	Thisexercise of its functions by the State Government is of1482no different quality leading to different results than	whatwould  have happened had action been taken under s. 25-A  orunder B. 9 of the Act.	It cannot there. fore be, said underthe circumstances of this case that the action of the  StateGovernment  is	cobweb	varnish	 or  that  it  is  merely  acolourable  order or a device to avoid the  requirements  ofsub-s. 5 of a. 57. ,It was then contended that the notification enumerates	actsof   the  municipality	some  of  which	 axe  instances	  ofmismanagement  and others of abuse of power.  It  cannot  besaid that the allegations in regard to the spending of moneywithout	 a provision in the budget or showing partiality  inthe matter of appointment and dismissal or in the matter  ofissuing	 of  transport passes or distribution  of  municipalmanure or the charge of spending huge amounts on maintenanceof roads and drainage without improving their condition	 arenothing	 short of gross mismanagement or abuse of power	 andcannot	fall  under  the  charge  of  incompetency  in	 theperformance  of duties or in the exercise of powers  by	 themunicipality.	Assuming that they can only be instances  ofabuse,	there  is  nothing wrong  in  the  State  Governmentenumerating  all  the  misdeeds	 and  wrongs  done  by	 thecommittee  and	then saying that it prefers to	take  actionunder  s. 53-A as it has done and not under s. 57.   If	 theacts  and  omissions  are  instances  of  abuse	 the   StateGovernment could if it thought fit, take action under s. 57.If  having two courses open to it the State Government	tookthe  lesser  of the two actions, its  discretion  cannot  bequestioned, in the absence of proof of bad faith.  It cannottherefore  be  said  that  the	State  Government  has	onlypretended to act under s. 53-A but in reality it was  actingunder s. 57 of the Act.It  was lastly contended that the State Government  when  itacts  under  s. 53-A has a duty to act	judicially  and	 therules  of  natural  justice required  that  ]the  appellantsshould have been given an opportunity to show cause  againstaction being taken under that section.	As said above  unders.  9 of the Act the State Government has, on the ground  ofunsuitability,	the power to withdraw from the	municipalityany of the		     1483powers	conferred under the Act either wholly  or  partiallyand  under  s. 25-A it has the power of appointing  a  ChiefExecutive  Officer  if	it  is	necessary  for	the  generalimprovement  in the administration of the  municipality	 andexactly	 the same consequences would follow as they do	whenan Executive Officer is appointed. under s. 53-A.  There arealso  sections 52, 53, 54, 55 and 56 which place  regulatorycontrol	 in  certain Government agencies.  If  action  takenunder those provisions is an exercise of executive functionsof the State Government can it be said that the exercise  ofsimilar	 power	under s. 53-A and for  similar	object	i.e.improving the general administration in case of incompetencyof  the municipality will change an administrative  decisioninto a judicial or quasijudicial decision ? The real test todistinguish  between a quasi-judicial and an  administrativeact of ail authority is based on the duty 'of that authorityhaving	power  to determine a question' to  act	 judicially.Lord  Hewart,  C. J. in R. v. Legislative Committee  of	 theChurch Assembly (1) said:In order that a body may satisfy the required test it is notenough	that  it should have legal  authority  to  determinequestion  affecting  the rights of subjects; there  must  besuperadded to that Characteristic the further characteristicthat the body has the duty to act judicially ".And  thus the authority taking a decision should not  merelydetermine  a question it should also be under a duty to	 actjudicially.   It is that essential characteristic which	 theState  Government  lacks  in  the  present  case.   When  itconsiders  something likely to result from its action it  ismerely	taking	executive  action  and	not  determining   aquestion  or acting judicially.	 This dictum of Lord  Hewartwas  quoted  with  approval by Das J. (as he  then  was)  inKusaldas  Advani's  case  (2).	He  said,  "  Therefore,  inconsidering  whether a particular statutory authority  is  aquasi-judicial body or a mere administrative body it has  tobe ascertained whether, the statutory authority has the dutyto act judicially".  There is no indication(1) [1928] 1 K.B. 411, 415.   (2) [1950] S.C.R. 621, 720.1484in  the statute itself that the State Government has a	dutyto  act	 judicially when it appoints  an  Executive  Officerunder  s. 53-A. nor has any procedure been prescribed as  tothe  manner in which the power under this section is  to  beexercised  by  the  State  Government  which  may  give	  anindication  as	to  nature  of	the  decision,	taken.	 Themunicipal  committee is a creation of the Act and  thereforeit  has	 all the powers and is subject to all  the  controlsunder the Act which are to be exercised as provided there-under.The  Act gives different modes of regulatory control to	 theState  Government  and the powers of  the  State  Governmentextend from revision of the actions, orders and	 resolutionsof  the municipal committee to the exclusion of local  areasfrom  its jurisdiction, taking away powers given  under	 theAct,  the appointment of Executive Officers, suspension	 andsupersession  of municipalities.  In certain sections e.  g.s.  57	dealing	 with this regulatory  control	the  statuterequires that the explanation of the committee be called forbefore a particular action is taken by the State  Governmentand in others no such requirement is prescribed.  That is  aclear indication of the intention of the legislature that anopportunity  was  to  be given in one case and	not  in	 theother.	In other words a kind of quasijudicial approach	 wasintended  in one case and administrative in the other.	 ThePrivy  Council	in Nakkuda Ali's case (1) (a  case  under  aCeylon Regulation) said :"  But,	 that  apart,  no procedure  is	 laid  down  by	 theregulation  for securing that the license holder is to	havenotice of the Controller's intention to revoke the  license,or that there must be any enquiry, public or private, beforethe Controller acts ".In  Advani's  case (2) Fazl Ali J. examining  the  ditty  ofauthorities to act judicially said at p. 641 :There are no express words in s. 3 or any other section,  toimpose	such a duty (to determine judicially); nor is  thereanything to compel us to hold that such aduty is implied(1)  [1951] A.C. 66,78.	    (2) [1950] S.C.R. 621.1485The  learned  judge took into consideration  the  fact	thatcertain sections specifically provided an enquiry and  othersdid not, and observed:" the fact remains that there is nothing in the Ordinance tosuggest	 that  the public purpose is to be determined  in  ajudicial way ".Therefore  where  in  a statute like the  present  one	somesections  prescribe the calling for the explanation  of	 themunicipality  before  any  action  is  taken  by  the  StateGovernment  and	 others do not, it is an indication  of	 theintention  of the legislature to exclude the application  ofprinciples of audi alteram partem in the latter case.The section (s. 53-A) has to be read as one whole and not incompartments.  The relevant words are: "  If the committee is not competent to perform the  dutiesimposed	 upon  it  and the State considers  that  a  generalimprovement  in	 the administration of the  municipality  islikely	to  be secured by " The latter portion i. e.  "	 theState  Government  considers  is  likely  to  be  secured  "indicates  a  purely subjective determination and  taking  apolicy	decision.  The use of the words " considers " and  "is  likely  relate  to a subjective  and  not  an  objectiveprocess.   "  To consider " means to think,  to	 contemplatementally,  to regard and " likely " means probably; such  asmight  well  happen; apparently suitable for.	These  wordscannot	have  any  reference  to  objectivity  but   suggestsubjectiveness.	  The opening words of the section " If	 thecommittee  is not competent cannot be read  separately	fromthe  latter part.  When under s. 53-A the  State  Governmentappoints an Executive Officer which act it considers  likelyto im. prove the general administration of the	municipalityit  does  not take two decisions, one objective	 as  to	 theincompetency  of the administration of the municipality	 andthe other subjective as to the action likely to improve	 theadministration.	  The  decision	 is  only  one.	  The  StateGovernment is the sole judge of both matters, namely, of theincompetency and -the remedy needed.  Both are parts of	 oneintegrated  whole  a decision taken in the exercise  of	 theadministrative1486functions  of the State Government and admits of no  elementof  judicial  process.	(Vide The  Province  of	 ,Bombay  v.Kusaldas  Advani (1) (per Kania C.J. at p. 633-635) and	 perDas  J. (as he then was) at p. 703).  The  State  Governmentmust  necessarily  be  the  sole  judge	 of  the  state	  ofincompetency  of the municipality otherwise it would not  beable  to take its administrative decision as to	 the  actionwhich  it  should take and which it considers is  likely  toimprove	 the administration.  Both the decisions as  to	 theincompetency  of  the municipality and the exercise  of	 theexecutive function as to the action to be' taken thereon arematters	 of  like character i.	e.  administrative  matters.(Kusaldas  Advani's  case at p. 633).  If that were  not  sothen  on the question of incompetency the  State  Governmentprocedure will be analogous to a judicial process subject toreview	of  Courts and the action it will take	will  be  anadministrative decision not subject to judicial review whichwill  not only lead to inconvenience but to confusion.	 ThePrivy  Council	pointed out in Venkatarao  v.  Secretary  ofState (2) that " inconvenience is not a final  considerationin  a matter of construction, but it is at least  worthy  ofconsideration,	and  it	 can  hardly  be  doubted  that	 thesuggested procedure of control by the Courts over Governmentin  the	 most detailed work of managing its  services  wouldcause not merely inconvenience but confusion ".The  very fact that an order under s. 53-A is in the  natureof an emergency action to protect the interests of the	ratepayer  and  has a limited duration not exceeding  18  monthsalso  negatives	 the  order being founded  on  an  objectivedetermination as to the incompetency of the committee.	Sucha  construction will defeat the very purpose of a.,  53-  A.Further action under s. 57 is of a permanent nature and	 hasaccordingly been expressly made subject to an explanation bythe  municipal committee.  The absence of such	a  provisionfrom  s.  53-A clearly shows that the  legislature  did	 notintend	that  there  should  be	 an  elaborate	hearing	 butintended that the State should under S. 53-A  take  a  swiftadministrative decision.  The(1) [1950] S.C.R 621.	 (2) (1936) L.R. 64 I.A. 55.1487correct	 position, as indicated above, is that the  decisionof the State Government as to incompetency and the  decisionas  to the action to be taken were really one decision,	 oneintegrated   whole  a  subjective  decision  of	 the   StateGovernment that it considered that by the appointment of  anexecutive  officer  a general improvement  in  the  hithertogeneral	 administration	 was likely to be  secured.   Merelybecause	 the fact of incompetency is a preliminary  step  tothe  exercise  of an administrative function  by  the  StateGovernment,  under & 53-A it is not necessary that the	factis  to be determined judicially.  Where the exercise of	 theadministrative functions of an Executive authority like	 theState  Government  are	subject	 to a  decision	 as  to	 theexistence  of  a fact, there is no duty cast  on  the  StateGovernment  to act judicially.	Both the decision as to	 thefact and as to the action to be taken are really one and nottwo  decisions, the determination being for the	 purpose  oftaking an appropriate administrative decision.	As has	beensaid  above  it	 is  one  integrated  whole  and  cannot  beseparated  into parts with different legal qualities.	Thiswas  the  view of Kania C. J. in the Province of  Bombay  v.Kusaldas Advani (1) where it was observed at p. 633:"  Because an executive authority has to  determine  certainobjective facts as a preliminary step to the discharge of anexecutive  function,  it  does	not  follow  that  it	mustdetermine  those  facts	 judicially.   When  the   executiveauthority  has to form an opinion about an objective  matteras  a preliminary step to the exercise of a power  conferredon  it,	 the  determination of the objective  fact  and	 theexercise  of  the executive power based	 thereon  are  alikematters of an administrative characterFazl Ali J. in that case said at p. 642:For  prompt action the executive authorities have  often  totake  quick  decisions and it will be going too far  to	 saythat in doing so they are discharging any judicial or quasi-judicial functions.  The word I decision' in common parlanceis more or less a natural(3)  [1950] S.C.R. 621.1488expression  and	 it  can be used with  reference  to  purelyexecutive as well as judicial orders.  The mere fact that anexecutive  authority has to decide something does  not	makethe  decision  judicial.   It is the  manner  in  which	 thedecision  has to be arrived at which makes  the	 difference,and the Teal test is: Is there any duty to act judicially ?The  language of sub-section (1) of s. 63-A  indicates	thatthe question whether the State Government considers that theaction taken under the section i. e., the appointment of  anExecutive Officer is likely to secure an improvement in	 thegeneral	 administration	 of  the  municipality	is  one	  ofexpediency, opinion and policy, matters which are peculiarlyfor  the  State Government to decide and  of  which,  alwaysassuming that it is acting bona fide, it is the sole  judge.No  objective test is possible.	 Therefore the use of  thesewords "considers " and " is likely " negatives any objectiveapproach  or judicial or quasi-judicial process.  The  StateGovernment is not essentially a judicial or a quasi-judicialbody  but  its essential function  is  administrative.	 Thevarious	 provisions  of	 the  Act show	that  it  takes	 itsdecisions   as	to  the	 mode  and  extent  of	control	  ofmunicipalities in pursuance of its opinion and policy and ongrounds of expediency.	In arriving at its decision it at nostage has any form of lis or quasi-lis before it nor can  itbe said that there are two parties before it.  The MunicipalCommittee  and	itself cannot be termed	 quasi-litigants  orparties to a proposition and opposition.  It is not bound totake  action under s. 53-A or any other section of the	Act.It  has to consider the question from the point of  view  ofpolicy	and expediency and the exigencies of the case  whichshows  that  it	 is not under a duty at	 any  stage  to	 actjudicially  to determine a question.  This further  supportsthe  view  that	 a correct interpretation  of  the  words  "considers  "  and Is is likely to be secured "	indicates  asubjective  decision and these words make the order  of	 theState  Government administrative and not judicial or  quasi-judicial.The  argument  that the order is quasi-judicial	 because  itaffects the rights of I the Municipal1489Committee  is vacuous because all that the order  complainedof does is that it restricts the exercise of certain  powersby the municipal committee and vests some powers in  anotherauthority  contemplated	 by  the  statute.   Besides   everydecision  of the Executive generally affects the  rights  ofone  citizen or another.  In Advani's case (1) Kania  C.  J.said at page 632:"............ it is broadly stated that when the fact has tobe  determined by an objective test and when  that  decisionaffects	 rights of some one, the decision or act  is  quasi-judicial.   This  last statement overlooks the	aspect	thatevery  decision of the executive generally is a decision  offact and in most cases affects the rights of some one or theother."But it was contended that in its order the State  Governmenthas to state reasons for taking action under s. 53-A.  In  ademocratic  system of government there is always  the  otherparty,	the  electors and citizens, who must  know  why	 theState  Government  takes one particular action	rather	thananother.   Besides  the mere requirement of  giving  reasonswould  not  change what was an administrative  body  into  ajudicial body or an administrative decision into a  judicialor quasi-judicial determination.The following passage from Halsbury's Laws of England,	Vol.II,  p.	 56  (3rd  Edition) aptly states  the  law  and	 mayusefully be quoted:" If, on the other hand, an administrative body in  arrivingat  its decision has before it at no stage any form  Of	 lisand  throughout has to consider the question from the  pointof view of policy and expediency, it cannot be said that  itis under a duty at any time to act judicially ".See also R. v. Manchester Legal Aid CommitteeIn  B. Johnson & Co. (Builders) Ltd. v. Minister  of  Health(3)  it	 was  also held that the Minister  was	entitled  toinform	his  mind by informal machinery of  an	enquiry	 andmerely	because in order to inform his mind the enquiry	 hadto  be held it could not be said that the Minister  was	 notperforming his administrative(1) [1950] S.C.R. 621.	       (2) (1952) 2 Q.B. 413.431.(3) (I947) 2 A.E.R. 395.1490function.  At p. 405 Cohen L. J. went further and said:"  His	duty as regards information received by him  in	 hisexecutive  capacity  is to use that information	 fairly	 andimpartially.   This  may  involve that	he  should  give  anopportunity to the authority or to the objector, as the casemay  be, of dealing with some allegation in a  communicationhe  has	 received before the quasi-lis started, but,  if  hefails to do so, he is responsible only to Parliament for thedischarge  of  his  executive duties,  and  cannot  be	maderesponsible in these courts."Appellants' counsel relied on some English cases, the  firstof  which was Cooper v. Wandsworth Board of Works (1)  whereByles J. said at p. 420:"......	 although there are no positive words in  a  statuterequiring that the party shall be heard, yet the justice  ofthe common law will supply the omission of the legislature."This view is not in accord with the modern exposition of thelaw in Nakkuda Ali's case (2) or Franklin's case (3).	LordShaw in Arlidge'3 case (4 ) rejected the concept of  naturaljustice in the following language :"............  in so far as it attempts to reflect  the	 oldjus naturale it is a confused and unwarranted transfer	intothe   ethical	sphere	of  a  term   employed	 for   otherdistinctions;  and,  in so far it is resorted to  for  otherpurposes, it is vacuous."In  R.	v.  Manchester Legal Aid  Committee  (5)  the  courtobserved :" The true view, as it seems to us, is that, the duty to actjudicially may arise in widely different circumstances whichit would be impossible, and, indeed, inadvisable, to attemptto  define  exhaustively.  Where the decision is that  of  acourt  then,  unless,  as  in the  case,  for  instance,  ofJustices granting excise licences, it is acting in a  purelyministerial  capacity,	it is clearly under a  duty  to	 actjudicially.  When, on the(1)  [1863]14 C.B. (N.S.) 180; 143 E.R. 414, 420.  2,0.7(2)  [1951] A.C. 66,78.(4)  [1915] A.C. I20,138.(3)  [1948] A.C. 87.(5)  [I952] 2 Q.B. 413, 431.other  hand, the decision is that of an administrative	bodyand is actuated in whole or in part by questions of  policy,the  duty  to  act judicially may arise	 in  the  course  ofarriving at that decision." But at page 431 it was said:" If, on the other hand, an administrative body in  arrivingat its decision at no stage I has before it any form of	 lisand  throughout has to consider the question from the  pointof view of policy and expediency, it cannot be said that  itis under a duty at, any stage to act judicially."That  was a case of a debtor who applied for and obtained  acertificate of legal aid under the Legal Aid and Advice Act,1949,  in  connection with his claim for damages  against  acompany	 but was thereafter adjudicated bankrupt and at	 hisinstance  the certificate was cancelled as his claim  vestedin the trustee in bankruptcy.  The trustee then applied	 forand  obtained  a  certificate of legal	aid.   The  NationalAssistance Board and the local Committee considered only thefinancial  circumstances  of  the bankrupt and	not  of	 thetrustee whose disposable income was in excess of the  lowestlimit  entitling  a certificate of legal  aid.	 The  debtorcompany	 applied  for an order of certiorari  to  quash	 thecertificate  alleging  that the Committee had  exceeded	 itsjurisdiction.	Under  the Legal Aid  (General)	 Regulation,1950,  reg. 4(1), it was a condition precedent to the  grantof a certificate that there should have been a determinationby the National Assistance Board of the disposable income ofthe  trustee  who  was	personally  liable  vis	 a  vis	 hisopponent.  It was held that the Board having legal authorityto  determine questions affecting rights of subjects  had  aduty  to  act  judicially  and	that  it  had  exceeded	 itsjurisdiction.	The case has some  distinguishing  features,wanting in the case before us.	The statute there prescribedthe limit of income of applicant for a certificate of  legalaid  and the regulations required the determination  by	 theNational  Assistance  Board  of the  disposable	 income	 anddisposable  capital of such applicant which was a  conditionprecedent to the1492grant  of  the	certificate.  Clearly  without	such  deter-mination  the  grant of the certificate was not	 within	 thejurisdiction  of  the Board and therefore the Board  had  todetermine  a  question and was required	 to  act  judiciallywithin	the  rule  laid down in	 the  majority	judgment  inKusaldas  Advani's case (1).  The Board under  that  statutewas bound to give aid, if certain conditions were  fulfilledand was quite unconcerned with questions of policy.  "	Theyhave  to  decide  the  matter  solely  on  the	facts  of  aparticular  case,  solely on the evidence  before  them	 andapart  from any extraneous considerations.  In other  words,they must act judicially, not judiciously."In  Capel v. Child (2) the words " Whenever it shall  appearto  -the satisfaction of the Bishop " were held to  imply  aduty  to  act  judicially and therefore	 the  principles  ofnatural justice applied.  This rule is inconsistent with thedecision  of the Privy Council in Nakkuda Ali's case (3)  orthe decision of the House of Lords in Franklin's case (4) orthe  interpretation  placed upon the word " satisfied  "  insome  of  the later English cases, Robinson v.	Minister  ofTown  and  Country  Planning  (5)  and	B.  Johnson  &	 Co.(Builders)  Ltd. v. Minister of Health (6).  This  Court  inKusaldas Advani's case (1) also held this word to indicate asubjective  approach.	See also Wijeysekra v.	Festing	 (7)where  the  words of the Statute were "	 whenever  it  shallappear	to the Governor See also R. v.	Metropolitan  PoliceCommissioner  (8)  where also the words were " if he  is  sosatisfied and it was held that these words did not imply " ajudge or a quasi-judge ". The decision in these cases layingdown  the  rule of application of natural  justice  must  beconfined  to  their  own  facts	 and  the  language  of	 theparticular statute they interpreted.  No general rule can bededuced therefrom nor can they be applied to other  statutesand other circumstances.The case before us is not one where no enquiry has(1)  [1950] S.C.R. 621, 720.(2)  [1832] 2 Cr. & Jr. 558; 37 R.R. 761.     (3) [1951] A.C66,78.(4) [1948] A.C. 87.     (5) [1947] K.B. 702.(6) [1947] 2 A.E.R. 395.     (7) [1919] A.C. 546.(8) [1953] 2 A.E.R. 717.1493been  hold.  There was an enquiry against the appellants  inregard	to specific allegations made against them and  afterhearing	 them a report was made by a Deputy Collector  whichwas forwarded to the State Government before it took action.One  Dhurmal Daga made a number of allegations	Annexures  Iand  II and those allegations were supported by others	likeDear  &	 Co.,  Poonam Chand  Somraj,  Dhamtari	Traders	 andShilaram  and the affidavit of the State Government  in	 theHigh  Court  shows that the notice was issued  to  both	 theappellants  to reply to the allega appellant No. 1  appearedbefore	a long explanation denyDhurmal Daga and others.	  Itwas  after  this that the Enquiry Officer  made	 his  reportwhich  was sent to the State Government and it	took  actionwhich  it  considered  apposite	 and  that  is	the   actioncomplained ofBut  it	 was  submitted	 that no notice	 was  given  to	 theappellants  as to the nature of the complaint  against	themand  the various charges which have been-enumerated  in	 thenotification were never specifically brought to their noticeand  they  were	 not called upon to show  cause	 why  actionshould	not be taken under s. 53-A.  In the first place	 theword,% of the section as explained above do not	 contemplateany such notice and the argument based on the opening  wordsof   the  section  that	 the  municipality  was	 guilty	  ofincompetence  was an objective fact cannot be accepted.	  Itcannot	be  said  in this case that in	point  of  fact	 theappellants did not know what the complaint against them	 wasor that they had no opportunity of giving their	 explanationin regard to the charges.  All the acts which are enumeratedin the notification are contained in the various allegationswhich  were  made  against the	appellants  by	Dburmal	 andothers.	 The appellants put a long explanation giving  theirversion	 of  the facts contained in the	 complaint  and	 theEnquiry Officer sent his report after hearing the appellantsand on the consideration of this report the State Governmentpassed its order under s. 53-A.	 The High Court after  goingthrough1494the record of the enquiry was satisfied as to the  proprietyand  legality  -  of the enquiry and  that  portion  of	 itsjudgment has been quoted above.Then  it  was  submitted that the enquiry by  Mr.  Rana	 wasunautborised  by the State Government and was no  substitutefor  the enquiry required by the statute.  But	the  statutehas prescribed no procedure for enquiries under s. 53-A evenif  it	were  to be said that the  section  contemplates  anenquiry.   And it is no defect affecting the final  decisionof  the State Government whether the enquiry  originates  inthe manner it did or the State Government ordered it.In  these  circumstances  the  third  point  raised  by	 theappellants  cannot  be sustained and the submission  of	 theappellants is without substance.  The appeal therefore failsand is dismissed with costs throughout.SUBBA  RAO  J.-I  have	had the	 advantage  of	reading	 thejudgment  prepared  by	my Lord, the Chief  Justice  and  mylearned	 brother,  Kapur J. I regret my inability  to  agreewith them in their views on   the  follwing  two  questions:(1)   Whether	under  s.  53-A	 of  the  C.  P.   &   BerarMunicipalities Act (Act II of 1922), hereinafter called	 theAct, the Government performs a judicial act; and (2) whetherin  fact  the  Government complied with	 the  principles  ofnatural justice in making the, Order dated November 8, 1956,under s. 53-A of the Act.As the facts have been fully narrated by my Lord, the  ChiefJustice,  it  would  suffice if the facts  relevant  to	 theaforesaid  questions  are briefly stated here.	 The  secondappellant  is  the Municipal Committee,	 Dhamtari,  and	 thefirst  appellant  is  its  President.	He  was	 elected  asPresident on July 10, 1956, and took charge of his office onJuly 27, 1956.	On August 8,1956, one Dhurmal Daga went on ahunger strike -for the redress of his grievances against theappellants.  The Collector, Raipur, intervened and persuadedhim to break his fast and ordered an inquiry into the chargeof  maladministration.	The Deputy Collector, who  made	 theinquiry, gave notice of the said inquiry to the Secretary tothe Committee and the first appellant1495filed  a written reply on September 7, 1956, and  personallyappeared  at  the inquiry.  Presumably, the  result  of	 theinquiry	 was forwarded to the Government.  On  November	 18,1957, the Government issued an Order, A under a. 53-A of theAct,   enumerating   fifteen  charges  involving   acts	  ofnonfeasance,  misfeasance, gross negligence and	 fraud,	 andstating	 that, by reason of the said act,%, it	appeared  tothe   Government  that	the  Committee	had  proved   itselfincompetent to perform the duties imposed on it by or  underthe said Act.  The order further proceeded to state that theGovernment  considered	that a general	improvement  in	 theadministration of the Municipality was likely to be  securedby  appointing a servant of the Government as the  ExecutiveOfficer	 of  the Committee.  The said Order  also  appointedShri  B. P. Jain as Executive Officer and entrusted  to	 himmost of the important powers and duties of the Committee andthe  President.	  Before the drastic action  was  taken,  noopportunity  was  given either to the President or  to,	 theCommittee  to explain their conduct in regard to any one  ofthe  charges.	The  previous inquiry  made  by	 the  DeputyCollector was to attempt to persuade Dhurmal Daga to give uphis fast and that inquiry by the Deputy Collector could not,in  any	 sense of the term, be regarded as  an	inquiry	 fortaking action under s. 53-A of the Act.	 Records also do notdisclose  whether that inquiry related to the  same  chargeswhich  were the foundation for the Government taking  actionunder the Act. 1, therefore, proceed on the footing that theGovernment acted under s. 53-A of the Act without giving anyopportunity  to the appellants to explain their	 conduct  inregard	to the grave charges levelled against them,  on	 thebasis  of which they were held to be incompetent Within	 themeaning of s. 53-A of the Act.The material part of s. 53-A reads:"  If  a committee is not competent to	perform	 the  dutiesimposed	 on it or undertaken by it by or under this  Act  orany,  other  enactment for the time being in force  and	 theState Government considers that a general improvement in theadministration of the1901496municipality is likely to be secured by the appointment of aservant	 of the Government as the executive officer  of	 thecommittee,  the	 State	Government may, by  an	other  Orderstating	 the  reasons  therefor published  in  the  Gazette,appoint	 such  servant	as  the	 executive  officer  of	 thecommittee  for such period not exceeding eighteen months  asmay be specified in such order."-The  learned  Advocate-General,	 appearing  for	 the  State,contended  broadly  that under this section  the  Governmentperforms  only	an  administrative  act	 by  appointing	  anExecutive  Officer  for	 a short  period  and  therefore  noopportunity  need  be given to the affected  parties  beforeaction is taken thereunder.  Mr. M. K. Nambiar, counsel	 forthe   appellants,  argued  that	 under	this   section	 theGovernment is empowered to deprive the Municipal  Committee,duly  elected,	under  the Act, of its	powers,	 though	 foreighteen months, on the basis of its incompetency and it  isagainst all principles of natural justice to stigmatize sucha  body as incompetent without giving it an  opportunity  toexplain	 its  conduct.	 He  would  say	 that  whether	 theCommittee   is	competent  or  not  is	an   objective	 andjurisdictional	fact to be decided judicially by  the  StateGovernment  and, therefore, the act of the Government  is  ajudicial act, which can only be discharged by following	 theprinciples of natural justice.Before considering the validity of the arguments based	uponthe  provisions	 of the section, it would be  convenient  atthis  stage  to	 notice briefly the  distinction  between  ajudicial  and  an administrative act and the  criteria	laiddown by decisions for ascertaining whether a particular	 actis  a  judicial	 act or an  administrative  one.   The	saidcriteria  have been laid down with clarity by  Lord  JusticeAtkin	in  Rex	 v.  The,  Electricity	Commissioners	(1),elaborated by Lord Justice Scrutton in Rex v. London  CountyCouncil	 (2)  and authoritatively restated  in	Province  ofBombay	v. Kusaldas S. Advani (3).  The aforesaid  decisionslay  down the following conditions to be complied with:	 (1)The  body  of  persons must have legal	authority;  (2)	 the-authority should(1) [1924] 1 K. B. 171.	       (2) [1931] 2 K. B. 215.(3)  [1950] S.C.R. 621.1497be  given  to determine questions affecting  the  rights  ofsubjects; and (3) they should have a duty to act judicially.So  far	 there is no dispute.  The question raised  in	thiscase is what do the words " a duty to act judicially " mean.If  the	 statute  in express terms says	 that  the  decisionshould be arrived at judicially, then it is an obvious case.If  it does not expressly say so, can the intention  of	 theLegislature  be	 gathered or implied from the terms  of	 thestatute	 ?  If it can be so gathered, what are	the  guidingfactors	 for implying such a duty on the part of a  tribunalor authority ? In this context a brief discussion of some ofthe 'relevant cases will be helpful.  This Court, as I	havealready	 stated, restated the law laying down  the  criteriafor ascertaining whether an act is a judicial act or not  inKusaldas's  case  (1).	There the question was	whether	 theProvincial  Government was acting judicially in	 making	 theorder  of  requisition	under  a.  3  of  the  Bombay	LandRequisition  Ordinance	(Bom.  Ordinance V  of	1947).	 Thematerial  part	of  the section	 under	discussion  read  asfollows:"  If  in  the opinion of the Provincial  Government  it  isnecessary  or expedient to do so, the Provincial  Governmentmay, by order in writing requisition any land for any publicpurpose."To  ascertain the nature of the act of the Government  underthat section, this Court reviewed the law on the subject andheld,  by a majority, that on a proper construction of s.  3of the Ordinance, the decision of the Bombay Government thatthe  property  was required for a public purpose was  not  ajudicial  or a quasijudicial decision but an  administrativeact   and   the	 Bombay	 High  Court  had,   therefore,	  nojurisdiction to issue a writ of Certiorari in respect of theorder  of  requisition.	  Das  J.  as  he  then	 was,  afterconsidering the law on the subject summarized the principlesat page 725 thus:"  (i) that if a statute empowers an authority, not being  aCourt in the ordinary sense, to decide disputes arising	 outof  a claim made by one party under the statute which  claimis opposed by another party and(1)  [I950] S.C.R. 621.1498to determine the respective rights of the contesting partieswho  are  opposed to each other, there is a  lis  and  primafacie  and in the absence of anything in the statute to	 thecontrary  it is the duty of the authority to act  judiciallyand  the decision of the authority is a quasi-judicial	act;and(ii) that  if a statutory authority has power to do any	 actwhich will prejudicially affect the subject, then,  althoughthere  are not two parties apart from the authority and	 thecontest is between the authority proposing to do the act andthe  subject  opposing it, the final  determination  of	 theauthority  will	 yet  be a quasijudicial  act  provided	 theauthority is required by the statute to act judicially."The propositions so stated appear to me to be unexceptional.But  the  further  difficulty is whether  the  duty  to	 actjudicially  should be expressly so stated in the statute  orwhether it can be gathered or implied from the provisions ofthe  statute.  I do not think that Das J. as he	 then  was,,meant  to  lay	down as a condition that  the  duty  to	 actjudicially  should be expressly stated in the  statute,	 forrarely any statute would describe the character of  disposalof  a particular proceeding.  If it was intended  to  insistupon an express condition in the statute, the learned  Judgewould  not have scrutinized the provisions of the  Ordinanceto ascertain whether the order thereunder was intended to bea judicial act or not.	A useful discussion bringing out  inbold  relief  the  difference  between	a  judicial  and  anadministrative	act is found in R. v. Manchester  Legal	 AidCommittee  (1).	  There	 a debtor applied  to  a  local	 aidcommittee, set up under the Legal Aid and Advice Act,  1949,for  a	certificate  for legal aid to  pursue  a  claim	 foralleged breach of contract against a limited company.  As hewas  adjudicated insolvent, the certificate was revoked	 andon  application made by his trustee, it was granted  to	 himagain.	 One of the questions raised was whether  the  legalaid   committee	 in  issuing  the  certificate	was   actingjudicially and therefore subject to an order of	 certiorari.The court held that the said body was under a duty to act(1)  [I952] 2 Q.B. 413.1499judicially.  Parker J. delivering the judgment of the Court,summarized the law on the subject at page 428 thus:" The true view, as it seems to us, is that the duty to	 actjudicially may arise in widely different circumstances whichit would be impossible, and, indeed, inadvisable, to attemptto  define exhaustively.  Where' the decision is that  of  aCourt,	then,  unless,	as in the  case,  for  instance,  ofjustices granting excise licences, it is acting in a  purelyministerial  capacity,	it is clearly under a  duty  to	 actjudicially.   When, on the other hand, the decision is	thatof  an	administrative body and is actuated in whole  or  inpart by questions of policy, the duty to act judicially	 mayarise in the course of arriving at that decision.  Thus, if,in  order to arrive at the decision, the body concerned	 hadto consider proposals and objections and consider  evidence,then  there is the duty to act judicially in the  course  ofthat inquiry.........Further, an administrative body in ascertaining facts or lawmay  be under a duty to act judicially notwithstanding	thatits proceedings have none of the formalities of and are	 notin   accordance	  with	 the  practice	 of   a	  court	  oflaw.....................If, on the other hand, an administrative body in arriving atits  decision at no stage has before it any form of lis	 andthroughout  has to consider the question from the  point  ofview of policy and expediency, it cannot be said that it  isunder a duty at any stage to act judicially."On the basis of the aforesaid principles, the learned  Judgeheld  that  the local committee,  though  an  administrativebody,  was acting judicially in issuing the certificates  asin  ascertaining the facts for issuing the  certificate	 -itwas  quite  unconcerned	 with any  question  of	 policy.   Irespectfully  agree  with the principles enunciated  by	 thelearned Judge and they are not in any way inconsistent	withthe  principles laid down by this Court.  The law  has	beenneatly	summarised  in	Halsbury's Laws	 of  England,  ThirdEdition, Volume 11, at pages 55 and 56 and it is as follows:1500"  It  is  not necessary; that it should  be  a	 court:	 'anadministrative	body  in ascertaining facts or	law  may  beunder  a  duty to act judicially  notwithstanding  that	 itsproceedings have none of the formalities of, and are not  inaccordance  with  the practice of, a court of  law.   It  isenough if it is exercising, after hearing evidence, judicialfunctions  in  the sense that it has to decide	on  evidencebetween a proposal and an opposition.  A body may be under aduty, however, to act judicially (and subject to control  bymeans  of  these orders) although there is no  form  of	 lisinter partes before it; it is enough that it should have  todetermine  a question solely on the facts of the  particularcase, solely on the evidence before it, apart from questionsof policy or any other extraneous considerations.""  Moreover  an	 administrative	 body,	whose  decision	  isactuated in whole or in part by questions of policy, may  beunder a duty to act judicially in the course of arriving  atthat decision........................ If, on the other hand,an  administrative  body  in arriving at  its  decision	 hasbefore it at no stage any form of lis and throughout has  toconsider  the question from the point of view of policy	 andexpediency, it cannot be said that it is under a duty at anytime to act judicially."It is not necessary to multiply citations.The  concept  of a ,judicial act", has	been  conceived	 anddeveloped  by  the English Judges with a view  to  keep	 theadministrative	tribunals  and	authorities  within  bounds.Unless	 the   said  concept  is   broadly   and   liberallyinterpreted,  the object itself will be defeated,  that	 is,the  power  of	judicial review will  become  innocuous	 andineffective.   The comprehensive phraseology of Art. 226  ofthe Constitution supports rather than negatives the  liberalinterpretation of that concept.	 The argument that the Courtshall not obstruct the smooth working of the  administrativemachinery does not. appeal to me, for the simple reason thatthe exercise of the power of judicial review or, to be	moreprecise,  the existence of such power in  courts-for  hardlyone act in thousands come before courts-eliminates arbitraryaction and enables the1501administrative	 machinery  to	function  without  bias	  ordiscrimination.	 With this background, the principles, as  Iapprehend  them, may be concisely stated thus: Every act  ofan  administrative  authority is not  an  administrative  orministerial act.  The provisions of a statute may enjoin  onan  administrative authority to act administratively  or  toact  judicially	 or to act in part administratively  and  inpart  judicially.  If policy and expediency are the  guidingfactors	 in part or in whole throughout the  entire  processculminating in the final decision,, it is an obvious case ofadministrative	act.   On  the other hand,  if	the  statuteexpressly  imposes a duty on the administrative body to	 actjudicially,  it	 is again a clear case of  a  judicial	act.Between	 the two there are many acts, the  determination  ofwhose  character creates difficult problems for	 the  court.There  may  be cases where at one stage of the	process	 thesaid  body may have to act judicially and at  another  stageministerially.	 The  rule can be broadly stated  thus:	 Theduty  to act judicially may not be expressly  conferred	 butmay be inferred from the provisions of the statute.  It	 maybe gathered from the cumulative effect of the nature of	 therights	affected, the manner of the disposal  provided,	 theobjective criterion to be adopted, the phraseology used, thenature	of  the power conferred or the duty imposed  on	 theauthority  and	other indicia afforded by the  statute.	  Inshort,	a  duty	 to  act  judicially  may  arise  in  widelydifferent circumstances and it is not possible or  advisableto  lay down a hard and fast rule or an inexorable  rule  ofguidance.In the present case, s. 53-A of the Act itself provides	 thenecessary  criteria  to	 answer the  question.	 Before	 theGovernment   can  take	action	under  the  section,   threepreliminary  conditions	 for the exercise of the  power	 arelaid down: (1) The Committee is not competent to perform theduties	imposed	 on it; (2) the State  Government  considersthat  a	 general improvement in the  administration  of	 themunicipality is likely to be secured by the appointment of aservant of the Government; (3) an order stating the  reasonstherefor.    The   first   condition   depends	 upon	 thedetermination of1502an   objective	fact,  namely,	whether	 the  committee	  iscompetent  to perform the duties imposed upon it.  It  is  ajurisdictional	 fact  that  confers  jurisdiction  on	 theGovernment  to	take further action.  The  determination  ofthis fact is not left to the subjective satisfaction of	 theGovernment.   Indeed,  the  different  phraseology  used  inregard	to  the	 second	 condition,  namely,  "	 the   StateGovernment  considers  ",  brings out  in  bold	 relief	 thedistinction  between  the  two;	 while	in  the	 former	  anobjective fact has to be -determined, in the latter the factis  left to the subjective satisfaction of  the	 Government.If the facts covered by both the conditions are left to	 thesubjective  satisfaction of the Government, the	 phraseologywould  have  been different and the clause  would  have	 runthus:  ".If the Government considers that, the committee  isnot competent to perform the duties imposed on it or  under-taken by it by or under this Act or any other enactment	 forthe  time being in force and that a general  improvement  inthe  administration  of	 the municipality is  likely  to  besecured by the appointment of a servant of the Government asthe Executive Officer of the Committee........ To accept theargument  of  the  Counsel for the respondents	will  be  torewrite	 the  section  in  the above  manner  which  is	 notpermissible.	There	is  also  a  good   reason   and   ajustification for the difference in the phraseology used  inthe section.  The municipality is an elected corporate	bodyand  is	 entrusted  with  responsible  statutory  functions.While  it may be necessary, in public interest,	 to  deprivethe  committee of some powers for a short period when it  isproved	to be demonstrably incompetent, such a	body  cannoteasily	be relegated to a subordinate position -on the	merewill and pleasure of the Government.  The section reconcilesthe public good and the committee's rights and prestige,  byconditioning the exercise of the power of the Government  todepend	  upon	 the   objective   determination   of	 thejurisdictional fact.  Whatever ambiguity there may be in thesection,  it  is dispelled by the third	 condition,  namely,that which enjoins on the Government to give reasons.	Whatis  the	 object	 of the Legislature  in	 imposing  the	saidcondition, if1503the  matter  is left to the subjective satisfaction  of	 theGovernment  ? The concept of subjective satisfaction of	 theGovernment does not involve any attempt to satisfy the	mindor appeal to the good sense of another.	 The working of	 themind  need not be disclosed and the validity of the  sectionneed not depend upon any objective standard.  The  conditionto  pass  a  speaking order is destructive of  any  idea  ofinvulnerability,  for  the said condition implies  that	 theorder should satisfy the mind of a reasonable man.It  is contended that a comparative study of the  provisionsof  ss.	 53-A and 57 shows that the Government has  to	givenotice	before	taking action under s. 57, whereas  no	suchduty  is cast upon it under s. 53-A and that would  indicatethe intention of the Legislature that the Government is	 notexpected  to act judicially under s. 53-A.  There.  is	someforce  in this contention, buy that is not decisive  of	 thequestion to be decided in this case.  If the provisions of aparticular   section  necessarily  imply  a  duty   to	 actjudicially, the mere fact that there is no express provisionto  issue a notice to the affected parties cannot convert  ajudicial  act  into  an administrative one.   Nor  does	 theargument  that	the  order of appointment  of  an  ExecutiveOfficer	 is  only  for	a  temporary  period  indicate	 theadministrative	character  of  the  act.   The	finding	  ofincompetency  carries  a  stigma with it and  what  is	morederogatory to the reputation of the members of the committeethan  to  be stigmatized as incompetent to  discharge  theirstatutory  duties  ? Would it be reasonable to	assume	thatpublic	men  in	 a  democratic country	are  allowed  to  becondemned  unheard ?  What is material is not the period  ofthe tenure of the executive officer, but the ground for	 theappointment of the officer, namely, the incompetency of	 thecommittee.   Shortly  stated,  the  position  is  this:	 Thecommittee  is  comprised of elected representatives  of	 therespective constituencies; they are presumably competent menin  whom the electorate has confidence.	 The Government	 hasto arrive at the finding of their incompetency on the  basisof objective facts to be ascertained and to1911504give  reasons for its finding.	It is against all canons  ofnatural	 justice that a tribunal should arrive at a  findingof far-reaching consequence without giving an opportunity to-explain  to  the persons who would be affected	 by  such  afinding.   For the aforesaid reasons, I have no	 doubt	thatthe  section  imposes  a  duty	on  the	 Government  to	 actjudicially in ascertaining the objective and  jurisdictionalfact, namely, whether the committee is incompetent.  It is anecessary condition of such a duty to give an opportunity tothe committee to explain the grave charges levelled  againstit.   Admittedly,  no  such opportunity	 was  given  to	 thecommittee  and	I cannot agree with  the  learned  Advocate-General	 that  the  inquiry by the Deputy  Collector  at  anearlier stage for a different purpose had in effect given anopportunity to the committee.  It is not known what were thecharges	 for  which  that  inquiry  was	 held.	 The  recorddiscloses  that	 the  inquiry  was  held  by  a	 subordinateofficer-there  is  nothing  on	record	to  show  that	 theGovernment  authorised	either the Collector or	 the  DeputyCollector to make the inquiry in connection with the fast ofDhurmal	 Daga.	 In my view, the inquiry  cannot  presumablytake the place of reasonable opportunity to be given by	 theGovernment for the proposed action under s. 53-A of the Act.In  the result, it follows that the Order of the High  Courtshould	be set aside and that of the  Government  appointingthe Executive Officer quashed.	I do it accordingly.ORDER  PER CURIAM: This appeal is dismissed with  costs,  inthis court and the courts below.	      Appeal dismissed.