PETITIONER:JAGAN NATH SATHU	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE UNION OF INDIADATE OF JUDGMENT:20/01/1960BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERSINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)SARKAR, A.K.WANCHOO, K.N.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR  625		  1960 SCR  (2) 784ACT:Preventive  detention--Status  of Pakistan  in	relation  toIndia if a foreign power-Grounds of detention-Principles  ofnatural justice-Preventive Detention Act. 1950 (4 of 1950),-Constitution of India, Item 9, List 1, Seventh Schedule.HEADNOTE:The  petitioner	 was  detained by an order  of	the  CentralGovernment  under  s. 3, of the	 Preventive  Detention	Act,1950.  The Advisory Board which considered the	petitioner'scase  in accordance with the provisions of the Act  did	 notrecommend  that the order of detention should be  withdrawn.The  allegations  against the petitioner were  that  he	 wascarrying  on propaganda of hatred and contempt	against	 theGovernment  of India and the State of Jammu and	 Kashmir  bysending	 for  publication  in  a  widely  published  foreignNewspaper, false, one-sided and misleading information aboutthe  administration of the State and the condition of  Indiain   general  and  the	said  State  in	  particular.	 Thepetitioner's  contentions,  inter alia, were  that  being  amember	of the Commonwealth, Pakistan, where  the  newspaperwas  published,	 was  not  a Foreign  State  and  could	 nottherfore be regarded as a Foreign power, that the principlesof  natural justice where violated by the Advisory Board  inconsidering  the respondent's case in his absence  and	thatmaterials placed before the Advisory Board were not suppliedto him.Held,  that  on a correct interpretation of  the  expressionforeign	 affairs  "  appearing in Item 9,  List	 1,  SeventhSchedule of the Constitution and the words "the relations ofIndia with foreign powers" in S. 3 Of the Act, Pakistan mustbe  regarded as a foreign power although that country  mightbe a member of the Commonwealth like India.  Under Art.	 367(3)  a country might not be regarded as a Foreign State	 forthe purposes of the Constitution but that country might be aforeign	 power for other purposes.  The Commonwealth  is  anAssociation  of	 Nations  each	having	a  sovereign  statusindependent  of	 the  other  in	 its  internal	and  foreignaffairs.The  provisions of s. 10 of the Act did not  offend  againstthe principles of natural justice and the procedure  adoptedby  the	 Advisory  Board  in the present  case	was  not  inContravention thereof.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Writ Petition No. 170 of 1959.Petition  under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forenforcement of Fundamental rights.		       785R. V. S. Mani. for the petitioner.C.   K.	 Dephtary,  Solicitor-General  of India,  B.  R.  L.lyengar and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1960, January 20.  The Judgment of the Court   was deliveredbyIMAM  J.-This petition was heard on January 4, 1960, and  weintimated  that it was being dismissed and reasons  for	 thesame will follow later.	 We proceed to give our reasons now.The  petitioner was detained by an order dated May 4,  1959,of  the Central Government under the provisions of s.  3  ofthe Preventive Detention Act, 1950 (hereinafter referred  toas  the Act).  The grounds of detention dated May  7,  1959,were  served on the petitioner.	 His case was considered  bythe  Advisory  Board constituted by the	 Central  Governmentunder s. 8 of the Act.	On the report of the Advisory  Boardthe  Central  Government by its order dated June  23,  1959,directed that the petitioner be detained until May, 4  1960.It  is	against	 this order of detention  that	the  presentpetition under Art. 32 of the Constitution has been filed bythe petitioner.The grounds of detention contained 5 grounds upon which	 theCentral	 Government was satisfied that it was  necessary  todetain	the petitioner as he was likely to act further in  amanner	prejudicial  to	 the  security	of  India  and	 therelations  of  India with foreign powers.   It	was  furtherstated	in  the	 grounds  of  detention	 that  the   CentralGovernment  considered	it against the	public	interest  todisclose  to the petitioner any facts or particulars  as  todates,	persons,  places,  nature  of  activities  and	 theassistance  given  by him other than those  which  had	beenmentioned  in  the  grounds of detention.   The	 grounds  ofdetention  further  mentioned  that  some  of  the  specimendespatches  sent by the petitioner and some of	the  reportsappearing in a newspaper published in Pakistan were  annexedthereto.From  the  grounds  of detention it would  appear  that	 theallegation  against  the  petitioner was that  he  had	beenengaged in carrying on propaganda against the Government  ofIndia and the Government of the786State of Jammu and Kashmir established	by law and   againstthe administration of that State Government  in	  a   mannercalculated   to	 bring	into  hatred  and	contempt theGovernment  of tile State and the Government of India;	thatin  furtherance of his	propaganda the petitioner  had	beeninter  alia sending for publication in a  foreign  newspaperdespatches of news and views relating to the State of  Jammuand  Kashmir  containing false,	 incomplete,  one-sided	 andmisleading information about the administration of the Stateby  the	 Government of that State, about the policy  of	 theGovernment of India in relation to that State and about	 theconditions in India in general and in the State of Jammu andKashmir	 in  particular;  that	the  said  despatches	werepublished prominently by the said newspaper, having a  largecirculation  in Pakistan and other foreign countries,  in  amanner prejudicial to India and her cause in relation to theState  of  Jammu  and Kashmir and also	prejudicial  to	 therelations of India with foreign powers ; that the petitionerwas  in	 regular touch and closely associated  with  severalpersons who are hostile to the cause of India in relation tothe  State  of	Jammu  and  Kashmir  and  were	engaged	  inactivities prejudicial to the security of India and that thecumulative  effect of the petitioner's aforesaid  activitieswas  prejudicial  to  the relations of	India  with  foreignpowers in general and particularly in regard to the cause ofIndia  in respect of the State of Jammu and Kashmir and	 themaintenance of public order therein.We  have examined the various extracts from  the  despatchessent  by the petitioner annexed to the grounds of  detentionserved	upon him.  They disclose sufficient  particulars  toenable	the  petitioner	 to make  a  representation  to	 theAdvisory  Board.   Having regard to what  appears  in  theseextracts   from	 the  despatches  sent	to   the   newspaperconcerned,  they disclose sufficient grounds for the  actiontaken by the Central Government in detaining the petitioner.On  behalf of the petitioner it was urged that the order  ofdetention was confined only to two matters (1)	  that	  itwas made with a view to preventing the			   787petitioner  from  acting  in a	manner	prejudicial  to	 therelations  of  India  with foreign powers  and	(2)  to	 thesecurity  of India. As to the first matter, it	was   arguedthat Pakistan not being a Foreign State, there	could  be noquestion  of any act of the petitioner being prejudicial  tothe relations of India with foreign  powers.  It was pointedout  that  under Art. 367(3) of the  Constitution,  for	 thepurposes of the Constitution, Foreign State meant any  Stateother  than  India.   The  proviso,  however,  enabled	 thePresident,  subject  to the provisions of any  law  made  byParliament, by order to declare any State not to be  ForeignState  for such purposes as may be specified in	 the  order.Reference  was made to the Constitution (Declaration  as  toForeign	 State) Order, 1950 (hereinafter referred to as	 theOrder)	made  by the Governor General of  India	 under	Art.392(3) of the Constitution read with Art. 367(3).  The Orderdirected  that it shall come into force at once, that is  tosay,  on January 23, 1950.  Clause (2) of the Order  states:"Subject  to the provisions of any law made  by	 Parliament,every country within the Commonwealth is hereby declared notto be a Foreign State for the purposes of the Constitution".On behalf of the petitioner it was urged that by the Order,,Pakistan  being a member of the Commonwealth,  was  declarednot  to be a Foreign State.  Although the Order was  subjectto  the provisions of any law made by Parliament no law	 hadyet  been enacted by Parliament contrary to the	 declarationmade by the Order.  Pakistan not being a Foreign State couldnot therefore be regarded as a foreign power and none of theacts  of  the  petitioner  referred to	in  the	 grounds  ofdetention could therefore be regarded as acts prejudicial tothe  relations of India with foreign powers.  The ground  inthis respect being an invalid ground the order of  detentionmust be set aside because even if one ground was an  invalidground	the  entire  order of detention must  be  set  asidethough	other grounds appeared to be valid  grounds,  havingregard to certain decisions of this Court.It  was also urged on behalf of the petitioner that none  ofthe extracts of the, despatches and the grounds788of   detention	disclose  any  word  or	 phrase	  suggestingincitement  to	violence  or subversion	 of  the  Governmentof  the State of Jammu and Kashmir or of the  Government  ofIndia.	Accordingly, there could be no question	  of any actof  the	 petitioner  being prejudicial to  the	security  ofIndia.Some  other  submissions were also urged on  behalf  of	 thepetitioner  with respect to the grounds of  detention  whichwill be dealt with in due course.It  was	 also urged that in violation of the  principles  ofnatural	 justice  the  respondent's case was  heard  by	 theAdvisory  Board prior to the case of the petitioner  and  inhis absence and that copies of the further materials,  whichwere  placed  before the Advisory Board by  the	 respondent,were not supplied to the petitioner.As already stated the contention on behalf of the petitionerhas been that Pakistan is not a Foreign State and  thereforecannot be regarded as a foreign power.	It is true, that  inview  of the Order, for the purposes of the Constitution  ofIndia, Pakistan is nota Foreign State.	There is, however, adistinction  between  a	 country not  being  regarded  as  aForeign State for the purposes of the Constitution and	thatcountry	 being	a  foreign power  for  other  purposes.	 TheCommonwealth is an Association of Nations each of which	 hasa sovereign status independent of each other in its internaland  foreign  affairs.	 They have  a  sovereign  status  ascomplete as that of any nation which is not a member of	 theCommonwealth.  Each  member  of the  Commonwealth  can	havediplomatic  relations  with  each  other  and  with  nationsoutside	  the  Commonwealth.   Indeed,	in  the	 matter	  ofsovereign  status  they	 are as independent  as	 any  nationoutside	 the Commonwealth.  It follows, therefore,  that  intheir  relations between each other and nations outside	 theCommonwealth  they  must be regarded as foreign	 powers	 andtheir  affairs as between them are foreign affairs.  In	 ouropinion,  that	which  is not concerned	 with  the  internalaffairs	 of  a member of the Commonwealth, is  its  externalaffair, that is to say, a foreign affair.			    789Under  item  9	of List 1 of the  Seventh  Schedule  of	 theConstitution,  Parliament  is empowered to enact  laws	withrespect	 to preventive detention for reasons connected	withdefence,  foreign  affairs  or the security    of  India andpersons subjected to such detention.  Under s. 3 of the	 Actthe  Central  Government or the	  State	 Government  may, ifsatisfied  with	 respect  to  any person,  with	 a  view  topreventing him from acting in any manner prejudicial to	 thedefence of India, the relations of India with foreign powersor the security of India, make an order directing that	suchperson be detained, if it thinks it necessary so to do.	 Theexpression  "  Foreign Affairs " includes the  relations  ofIndia  with  foreign powers.  The question for	decision  iswhether	  Pakistan  is	a  foreign  power.   On	 a   correctinterpretation	of the meaning of the words " the  relationsof  India  with	 foreign  powers " we  have  no	 doubt	thatPakistan must be regarded as a foreign power, although	thatcountry	 may be a part of the Commonwealth as India is.	  Ithas  sovereignty in matters of internal	 administration	 andexternal  relations quite independent and disconnected	withthe  sovereignty  of  India  or	 any  other  member  of	 theCommonwealth  in  these	 respects.   Pakistan  has  its	 owndiplomatic relations with various countries including India.Apart	from  its  membership  of  the	 Commonwealth,	 theindependent sovereign status of Pakistan is the same as	 thesovereign  status of any country outside  the  Commonwealth.It  was,  however,  suggested that the	Order  made  by	 theGovernor  General  took Pakistan outside the category  of  aforeign	 power.	  In  our  opinion,  this  is  a  fallaciousargument  because  Art. 367(3) itself states  that  for	 thepurposes of the Indian Constitution Foreign State means	 anyState  other  than India but the President, and	 before	 thecommencement  of  the Constitution the Governor	 General  ofIndia under Art. 392(3), may by order declare any State	 notto be a Foreign State for such purposes as may be  specifiedin  the Order.	In the Order the Governor  General  declaredthat every country within the Commonwealth was not a ForeignState  for  the	 purposes  of  the  Constitution.   In	 theConstitution  of India there are various Articles  in  whichthe expression790Foreign	 State	appears, e.g., Art. 18(2),  (3),  (4),	Art.19(2),	 Art.	102(1)(d.)  and	 Art.  191(1)(d).    It	  isclear,therefore.. that under the Order, for the purposes  ofthese  Articles	 or any other Article where  the  expression"Foreign  State" appears, that expression would not cover  acountry	 within the Commonwealth unless	 Parliament  enactedotherwise.   The  Order cannot be brought into aid  for	 thepurposes  of  construing the  expression  "foreign  affairs"appearing  in item 9 of List 1 of the Seventh  Schedule	 andthe  expression "foreign powers" in s. 3 of the Act.   Theseexpressions must be construed in the ordinary way giving thewords  their  ordinary	meaning.   We  have  no	 doubt	thatPakistan  is a foreign power.  Under the provisions  of	 theAct  the Central Government and the State Governments  coulddetain	a person who was acting in a manner  prejudicial  tothe  relations	of  India with foreign	powers	which  wouldinclude	 Pakistan.   It	 is to be  further  remembered	thatneither	 in  the order of detention nor in  the	 grounds  ofdetention there is any mention of Pakistan specifically.  Onthe  contrary,	in the grounds of detention, it	 is  clearlystated	that  the  cumulative  effect  of  the	petitioner'sactivities  was prejudicial to the relations of	 India	withforeign	 powers	 in  general (vide grounds 3  and  4).	 Thegrounds	 of detention refer to the publication in a  foreignnewspaper  of despatches of news and views relating  to	 theState of Jammu and Kashmir containing false, incomplete, onesided and misleading information and about the policy of theGovernment of India in relation to that State.	The extractsof  the	 despatches, sent by the petitioner to	the  foreignnewspaper,  annexed  to the grounds of detention  show	thatthey  are  not only prejudicial to the Government  of  Indiavis-a-vis Pakistan but they are prejudicial to the relationsof India with foreign powers in general, the subject of	 theaffairs of the State of Jammu and Kashmir not being a matterof interest solely to Pakistan but also of interest to otherforeign powers.Coming now to objections made as to the grounds of detention: regarding ground No. 1, it was urged that this ground	 wasoutside the scope of the order of			 791detention.   This ground mentions that the  petitioner	  isengaged	 in carrying on propaganda against the	  Governmentof  India  and	the Government of the  State  of  Jammu	 andKashmir in such a manner as to bring  these  two Governmentsinto hatred and contempt.  In our opinion, it cannot be saidthat  this  ground  is	beyond the scope  of  the  order  ofdetention  because the bringing of the Government  of  Indiaand  the Government of the State of Jammu and  Kashmir	intohatred and contempt does involve the security of India.Regarding  ground  No.	2  it was urged	 that  it  does	 notdisclose a single suggestion about the subversive activitiesof the petitioner, nor does it disclose what portions of thedespatches were false, incomplete, misleading or  one-sided.It  was further pointed out that this ground speaks  of	 theconditions  in	India  in  general and	the  policy  of	 theGovernment  of India in relation to the State of  Jammu	 andKashmir.   What	 the policy of the Government  of  India  isconcerning that State is not stated.  All these	 allegationswere  so  vague that they gave no real	opportunity  to	 thepetitioner to make a representation.  Similarly,  concerninggrounds	 3  and	 4 it was urged that  the  grounds  did	 notdisclose  what	was the cause of India in  relation  to	 theState	of  Jammu  and	Kashmir.   Here	 again,	  sufficientparticulars were not given to enable the petitioner to	makean  effective representation to the Advisory Board.  In	 ouropinion, none of these contentions has any substance becausewith the grounds of detention were annexed extracts from thedespatches sent by the petitioner to the newspaper " ]Dawn "published  in  Pakistan.   These  extracts  gave  sufficientparticulars  to	 enable the petitioner to make	a  represen-tation with respect to all matters stated in the grounds  ofdetention.Coming now to the submission that the respondent's case	 washeard  before the petitioner's case and in his	absence	 andthat copies of further materials placed before the  AdvisoryBoard by the respondent were not supplied to the petitioner,it  is necessary to refer to the procedure to be adopted  bythe Advisory Board under101792the  provisions	 of  the Act.  Under s.	 9,  in	 every	casewhere  a  detention  order has	been  made  the	 appropriateGovernment   must   within  30	days  from   the   date	  ofdetention place before the Advisory Board the grounds,	 onwhich  the order has been made, and the	 representation,  ifany,  made by the detenus and, in a case where an order	 hasbeen  made  by an officer, also the report by  such  officerunder sub-s. (3) of s. 3. Section 10 sets out the  procedurewhich the Advisory Board must follow when reference has beenmade to it under s. 9.Section 10(1) states :" The Advisory Board shall, after considering the  materialsplaced	before	it  and,  after	 calling  for  such  furtherinformation  as it may deem necessary from  the	 appropriateGovernment or from any person called for the purpose throughthe appropriate Government or from the person concerned, andif in any particular case it considers it essential so to door  if	the  person concerned desires  to  be  heard,  afterhearing him in person, submit its report to the	 appropriateGovernment within ten weeks from the date of detention.	 "It  is clear from these provisions that the  Advisory  Boardafter considering the materials placed before it under s.  9can  call  for	further	 information  from  the	 appropriateGovernment, and that thereafter if in any particular case itconsiders it essential so to do or if the detenue desires tobe  heard,  after  hearing him, submit	its  report  to	 theappropriate  Government.  In such a situation  the  AdvisoryBoard must of necessity obtain further information from	 theappropriate Government before it hears the detenue.  In	 ouropinion, there is nothing in s. 10 which offends against theprinciples  of natural justice.	 Furthermore,  the  petitiondoes  not assert as a matter of fact that  the	respondent'scase  was heard in the absence of the  petitioner.   Indeed,the  respondent's  affidavit does not admit  that  any	suchthing happened.As  for	 the copies of the further materials placed  by	 therespondent  before the Advisory Board not being supplied  tothe petitioner, it has to be observed that in paragraph 3 ofthe grounds of detention it was			    793clearly	 stated	 that the Central Government  considered  itagainst	 public interest to disclose to the  petitioner	 anyfacts or particulars as to dates, persons, places, nature ofactivities and the assistance given by him other than  thosewhich	had  already  been  mentioned  in  the	grounds	  ofdetention.   Under  Art.  22(6) of the	Constitution  it  isclearly stated that nothing in cl. (5) of that Article shallrequire	 the  authority	 making an  order  of  detention  todisclose facts which such authority considers to be  againstpublic	interest to be disclosed.  In the present  case	 theauthority  concerned had declined to disclose in the  publicinterest  any  facts or particulars as	to  dates,  persons,places, nature of activities and the assistance given by thepetitioner other than those which had already been mentionedin  the	 grounds of detention.	In  such  circumstances,  itwould have been entirely inappropriate for the respondent tosupply	copies	of the further materials placed	 before	 theAdvisory Board although the Advisory Board may have requiredfurther information in order to satisfy itselfThe petition is accordingly dismissed.Petition dismissed.