PETITIONER:NASAR ALI	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESHDATE OF JUDGMENT:14/02/1957BENCH:ACT:First  in  formation report-Report made by  accused--Use  ofBurden of Proof in criminal cases -Witness disbelieved as toPart of his testimony-Whether should be rejected in toto.HEADNOTE:A  first  information report is not a substantive  piece  ofevidence  and can only be used to corroborate the  statementof  the	 maker	under  s. I57 Of  the  Evidence	 Act  or  tocontradict  it under S. 145 of that Act.  It cannot be	usedas  evidence  against the maker at the trial if	 he  himselfbecomes	 an accused, nor to corroborate or contradict  otherwitnesses,It  is a cardinal principle of criminal	 jurisprudence	thatthe  innocence	of  an	accused	 person	 is  presumed	tillotherwise  proved.   It is the duty of	the  prosecution  toprove  the  guilt of the accused subject  to  any  statutoryexception.The maxim falsus in uno, falsus in omnibus has not  receivedgeneral acceptance in different jurisdictions in India,	 norhas  it come to occupy the status of a rule of law.   It  ismerely a rule of caution.  All that it amounts to is that insuch cases the testimony may be disregarded and not that  itmust  be  disregarded.	 The doctrine  merely  involves	 thequestion of weight of evidence which a court may apply in  agiven set of circumstances but it is not a mandatory rule ofevidence,JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 150  of1956.Appeal	by special leave from the Judgment and	order  datedOctober 18, 1955, of the Allahabad High Court in  GovernmentAppeal No. 60 of 1953 arising out of the judgment and  orderdated  July  8,	 1952, of the Court  of	 Sessions  Judge  atBareilly in Criminal Sessions Trial No. 27 of 1952.Daulat Ram Prem and P. C. Agarwala, for the appellant,658Gyan Chand Mathur and C. P. Lal, for the respondent.1957.  February 14.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyKAPUR J.-The appellant along with one Qudrat Ullah was triedfor the murder of one Sabir.  The latter was tried under  s.302 read with s. 114 of the Indian Penal Code for  abetment,and  the  former under s. 302 I.P.C. Both the  accused	wereacquitted  by the learned Sessions Judge of  Bareilly.	 Butthe State took an appeal to the Allahabad High Court againstthe appellant only and the judgment of acquittal in his casewas  reversed and he was convicted under s. 302	 I.P.C.	 andsentenced   to	'transportation	 for  life'.   Against	 thejudgment  of the High Court the appellant has  brought	thisappeal by Special Leave.The facts which have given rise to the appeal are that Sabirwas murdered on the 11th May, 195 1, at about 6-30 p.m.	 TheFirst Information Report was made by Qudrat Ullah the  otheraccused	 at  6-45 p.m. the same day, i.e., within  about  15minutes	 of the occurrence.  The prosecution case  was	thatthere was an exchange of abuses between the deceased and theappellant  near	 the  shop of the  First  Informant,  QudratUllah.	The cause of the quarrel was that on the evening  ofthe  occurrence while Qudrat Ullah was sitting in  his	shopand  the  deceased  was sitting just  below  the  shop,	 theappellant  came	 out  of his house and on  seeing  him,	 thedeceased asked him as to why he was in such a "	 dishevelledcondition ", which annoyed the appellant and gave rise to anexchange of abuses.  On hearing this noise, the	 prosecutionwitnesses arrived at the spot and saw the appellant and	 thedeceased grappling with each other.  The appellant is statedto have asked Qudrat Ullah to hand over a knife to him whichQudrat	Ullah did; this knife is Ex.  I II', with which	 theappellant  stabbed  the deceased and then fled away.   As  aresult	of  the injuries the deceased fell down	 infront  ofQudrat Ullah's shop; some witnesses have stated that he fellon  the	 wooden plank in front of the  shop.   Qudrat  Ullahpicked up the knife which had been659dropped by the appellant, put the deceased in a rickshaw andtook  him to the hospital from where he went to	 the  PoliceStation and made the First Information Report.	An objectionhas been taken to the admissibility of this report as it wasmade  by a person who was a co-accused. A First	 InformationReport is not a substantivepiece of evidence and can only beused to corroborate the statement of the maker under s.	 157of the Evidence Act or to contradict it under s. 145 of thatAct. -It cannot be used as evidence against the maker at thetrial  if he himself becomes an accused, nor to	 corroborateor contradict other witnesses.	In this case, therefore,  itis not evidence.The  Sub-Inspector went to the spot,  started  investigationand  arrested the appellant the same evening at	 his  house.The  postmortem examination of the deceased showed  injurieson the person of the deceased and, according to the doctor.,death  was  due to shock and haemorrhage on account  of	 thepunctured wound in the chest, causing injuries to the  lungsand  these  injuries  could be	caused	with  a	 sharp-edgedweapon.The  appellant	and the deceased both belong to	 a  sect  ofJogis.	 Evidence  discloses  that  the	 deceased  and	 theappellant  were quite friendly with each other, and so	werethe  deceased and Qudrat Ullah, who is a butcher and  had  ashop which is a part of his house.  Adjacent to the shop  isthe house of the appellant.  Eye witnesses of the occurrencewere  Yad Ali, P.W. 1, Banne, P.W. 2 and Mohd.	Ahmed,	P.W.3. Having been told by the sister of the deceased as to	 theoccurrence, Ashraft, P.W. 4 came to the spot later and foundthe  deceased  lying unconscious.  Shakir, P.W.	 5,  youngerbrother of the deceased, on arriving near the shop of QudratUllah  heard  the  appellant  and  the	deceased  exchangingabuses,	 but  was not a witness of the assault' as  just  atthat  time he had gone, at the request of Qudrat  Ullah,  tofill  his  Chillum for the hookka and when he came  back  hefound  the  deceased  lying unconscious	 and  the  appellantrunning away towards his house.The  evidence  of  Yad	Ali P. W. 1, is	 that  he  heard  anexchange  of abuses between the deceased and  the  appellantand when he moved about 4 or 5 paces he660saw  them grappling with each other.  The appellant had	 thedeceased ,in his grip", he asked Qudrat Ullah to hand over aknife to him which the latter did and with it the  appellantstabbed	 the deceased and then went away to his house.	 Thestatement  of  Banne is similar and so is the  statement  ofMohd.  Ahmed, P. W. 3. This evidence was not accepted by thelearned	 Sessions Judge and he acquitted both  the  accused.The  State took an appeal only against the  appellant  whichwas  allowed  by the High Court.  It held " We	may  concedethat the eye-witnesses have falsely implicated Qudrat  Ullahby deposing that he handed over his knife to the  respondenton  his demand.	 There was no enmity between him  and  Sabirand  he bad no motive to get him killed by  the	 respondent.It  does not at all appear probable that after abetting	 themurder	of  Sabir he at once took him on a rickshaw  to	 thehospital  and from there went at once to the police  stationand lodged a report against the respondent.  This conduct ofQudrat	Ullah is so inconsistent with the part said to	havebeen  played  by him in the occurrence that we	have  littlehesitation  in rejecting the evidence about the part  playedby him."The High Court, however, accepted the. testimony of the eye-witnesses as against the appellant's guilt and observed:"We are satisfied that the prosecution has fully establishedthe,  case  against  the  respondent.	There  is  not	 theslightest  doubt  about	 his  guilt.   The  presumption	  ofinnocence  has been fully rebutted by the prosecution.	 Thecase against him does not become doubtful merely because thelearned Sessions Judge said that there was a doubt about hisguilt." The learned Judges also came to the conclusion	thatthe  view taken by the learned trial Judge was ;one "  whichno  reasonable	person could have taken.  It  was  a  whollyerroneous  view of the evidence which has resulted in  grossmiscarriage  of	 justice  inasmuch  as	a  murderer  escapespunishment",.	 In  the  circumstances	 of  the  case	 andconsidering that there was some provocation, the High  Courtsentenced the appellant to I transportation for life.661There  is a passage in the Judgment of the High Court  whichappears	 to us to be disconsolate and indicative of a  wrongapproach  in  deciding	the  guilt  of	an  accused  person.Although  the learned Judges recognised the  principle	thatthe onus was not on the accused, yet one of the observationsis  such  that	it comes perilously near to  putting  -	 theburden	on the accused if it does not actually do  so.	 TheHigh Court has said:The respondent himself did not have the courage to say	thathe did not find them at the spot.  If 'he were innocent,  hemust have come out -of his house immediately on hearing	 thenoise and must have known who was present there and; who wasnot"This passage is so destructive of the cardinal principle  ofcriminal  jurisprudence as to the presumed innocence  of  anaccused	 person	 till otherwise proved that  it	 has  becomenecessary   to	 reiterate  the	 rule  stated	by   eminentauthorities  "...... that it is the duty of the	 prosecutionto  prove  the	prisoner's guilt subject  to  any  statutoryexception."it  was	 next  contended  that	the  witnesses	had  falselyimplicated Qudrat Ullah and because of that the Court shouldhave  rejected the testimony of these witnesses	 as  againstthe  appellant	also.  The well-known maxim  falsus  in	 unofalsus	in  omnibus was relied upon by the  appellant.	 Theargument raised was that because the witnesses who had -alsodeposed	 against Qudrat Ullah by saying that he	 had  handedover the knife to the appellant had not been believed by theCourts below as against him, the High Court should not	haveaccepted  the  evidence of these witnesses  to	convict	 theappellant.   This maxim has not received general  acceptancein different jurisdictions in India; nor has this maxim cometo occupy the status of a rule of law.	It is merely a	ruleof  caution.  All that it amounts to is that in	 such  casesthe  testimony	may be disregarded and not that it  must  bedisregarded.  One American author has stated:(1)  Woolmington  v.  The Director of  Public  Prosecutions,1935 A. C. 462.662	   SUPREME COURT REPORTS		   [1957]validity............  and  secondly,  in  point	 of  utilitybecause	 it merely tells the jury what they may do  in	any,event, not what they must do or must not do, and  therefore,it  is a superfluous form of words.  It is also in  practicepernicious.......... " (1)The  doctrine  merely  involves the question  of  weight  ofevidence  which	 a  court  may	apply  in  a  given  set  ofcircumstances but it is not what may be called " a mandatoryrule of evidence ". Counsel  for the appellant drew our attention to a  passagefrom  an  unreported  judgment	of  the	 Privy	Council,   IChaubarja Singh v. Bhuneshwari Prasal Pal."  The	defendants own evidence and that of several  of	 hiswitnesses is of no use to, him.	 He cannot contend that	 anycourt  of law can place reliance on the oath of	 people	 whohave admittedly given false evidence upon the other branchesof the case."This  passage is a very slender foundation, if at  all,	 forconferring  on	the doctrine the status of  anything  higherthan a rule of caution and the Privy Council cannot be	saidto   have   given  their  weighty  approval  to	  any	suchcontroversial  rule which has been termed as  "	 worthless","absolutely  false  as	a maxim of life"  and  "in  practicepernicious"  in works of undoubted authority on the  law  ofevidence (2).The  High  Court  was not unmindful of	what  the  witnessesstated	as to Qudrat Ullah's part in the commission  of	 theoffence and having taken that into consideration, it said:"  While the learned Sessions Judge was right in  acquittingQudrat	Ullah,	he was completely wrong	 in  acquitting	 therespondent of whose guilt there was not the slightest doubt.The  direct evidence made out a clear case against  him	 andthere was no sound reason for disregarding it."After  discussing  the	evidence of the	 witnesses  and	 thediscrepancies  pointed out by the appellant the	 High  Courtheld " there is not the slightest doubt about his guilt."(1) Wigmore on Evidence Vol.  III para 1009.(2j Wigmere Vol.  III para 1009.663It  was	 because  of the above	two  contentions  raised  bycounsel	 for  the  appellant and because it was	 a  case  ofreversal of a judgment of acquittal that we allowed  counselto  go	into  the evidence which he analysed  and  drew	 ourattention  to its salient features and to the  discrepanciesin  the statements of witnesses and the	 improbabilities  ofthe case; but we are satisfied that the learned Judges	werejustified in coming to the conclusion they did and the	viewof the trial judge was rightly displaced.  Upon a review  ofthe  evidence of the prosecution witnesses we have come	 ,tothe conclusion that the appellant was rightly convicted.The appeal is, therefore, dismissed and the judgment of	 theHigh Court is affirmed.A appeal dismissed.