PETITIONER:M/S.  DALMIA DADRI CEMENT CO.  LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX(and connected petition)DATE OF JUDGMENT:28/04/1958BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABOSE, VIVIANDAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1958 AIR  816		  1959 SCR  729ACT:       Act  of State-Covenant between States for  merger-Rights	 of       subjects of the Covenanting States-Enforcement in  municipal       courts	of  the	 New  State-Income-tax-Concessional   rates       granted by the Covenanting State-Whether binding on the	New       State.HEADNOTE:The appellant company which was incorporated in 1938 in	 theerstwhile  State of Jind obtained certain  concessions	fromthe  Ruler  of the State under an agreement dated  April  1,1938, -which, inter alia, provided that the State was to  beallotted  certain shares in the company without any  paymentand as regards income-tax the company was to be assessed  atconcessional rates.  On May 5, 1948, the Ruler of jind alongwith  the  Rulers  of  seven other  States  entered  into  aCovenant for the merger of their territories into one State,Article	 VI of the Covenant provided, inter alia,  that	 theRuler	of  the	 Covenanting  State  shall  make  over	 theadministration	of  his State to the Rajpramukh of  the	 newState  and that all duties and obligations of the  Ruler  ofthe  Covenanting  State shall devolve on the New  State	 andshall be discharged by it.  In accordance with that  Articlethe  Rajpramukh	 took  over the administration	of  jind  onAugust 20, 1948, and immediately after assumption of  officepromulgated Ordinance No. 1 Of S. 2005, by s. 3 of which alllaws  in force in the State of Patiala were made  applicablemutatis	 mutandis  to the territories of the New  State	 andthat  all  laws	 in force in the  Covenanting  States  stoodrepealed.   On	November 24, 1949, the Rajpramukh  issued  aproclamation  accepting	 the Constitution of  India  and  onApril 13, 1950, the New State became a taxable territory  ofthe Union of India.730The  result of the constitutional changes was that  the	 lawrelating to income-tax applicable to the appellant, for	 theperiod	prior to August 20, 1948, was that of Jind, for	 theperiod	August	20,  1948, to April 13, 1950,  that  of	 thePatiala Income-tax Act and after April 13, 1950, the  IndianIncome-tax  Act	 ;  but the  appellant	contended  that	 theincome-tax  should  be	levied on him  as  provided  in	 theagreement  entered into with the Ruler of jind, dated  April1, 1938:Held, (1) that S. 3 Of the Ordinance No. 1 Of S. 2005 on itstrue construction extinguished the right to tax	 concessionsconferred  on the appellant under the agreement dated  April1,  1938,  and	that  the  appellant  cannot  rely  on	thatagreement after August 20, 1948.(2)The	Covenant  dated	 May 5, 1948, entered  into  by	 theRulers	of  the States, is in whole and in parts an  act  ofState  and Article VI cannot be relied on by  the  appellantfor the enforcement of the rights conferred on him under theagreement  with the Ruler of jind as against the  Rajpramukhof the new State,Per  S.	 R.  Das C. J., Venkatarama Aiyar,  S.	K.  Das	 andGajendragadkar	 JJ.-When  a  treaty  is  entered  into	  bysovereigns  of independent States whereunder sovereignty  interritories  passes from one to the other,  clauses  thereinproviding  for the recognition by the new sovereign  of	 theexisting  rights of the residents of those territories	mustbe  regarded  as invested with the character of	 an  act  ofState  and no claim based thereon could be enforced  in	 themunicipal  courts  established by the new  sovereign  unlessthose rights have been recognised by him.Secretary of State for India v. Bai Ralbai, (1915) L. R.  42I. A. 229, Vajasingji Joravarsingji and others v.  Secretaryof State, (1924) L. R. 51 1. A. 357, Sccretary of  State  v.Sardar	Rustam	Khan,  (1941) L. R. 68 1. A.  109,  Cook  v.Sprigg, [1899] A. C. 572 and Hoani Te Heuheu Tukino v. AoteaDistrict Maori Land Board [1941] A. C. 308, relied on.Per  Bose  J.-International  opinion is	 divided  about	 theeffect	that  a	 change	 of sovereignty	 has  on  rights  toimmoveable property and this decision must not be used as  aprecedent  in a case in which rights to immoveable  propertyare concerned.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELATE, JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.230 of  1954.Petition No. 276 of 1953.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated June 7,  1954,  ofthe former Pepsu High Court in Civil Misc.  No. 97 of  1953.Petition  under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forthe enforcement of fundamental rights.731G.S.   Pathak,	Veda  Vyasa,  S.  K.  Kapur  and  J.   B.Dadachanji, for the appellants-petitioners.H.   N.	   Sanyal,    Additional    Solicitor-General	  ofIndia,R.Ganapathi  Iyer, Raj Gopal Sastri and R. H.  Dhebar,for the respondents.1958.	April  28.   The  judgment  of	S.  R.	Das  C.	 J.,Venkatarama  Aiyar,  S. K. Das and  Gajendragadkar  JJ.	 wasdelivered  by  Venkatarama  Aiyar J.  Bose  J.	delivered  aseparate judgment.VENKATARAMA  AIYAR J.-Messrs. Dalmia Dadri Cement  Co.	Ltd.which  is the appellant in Civil Appeal No. 230 of 1954	 andthe  petitioner	 in Petition No. 276 of 1953,  is  a  publiccompany	 engaged in the manufacture and sale of cement at  aplace called Dadri situate in what was once the	 independentState of Jind.	On April 1, 1938, one Shanti Prasad Jain,  apromoter of the above company, obtained certain	 concessionsfrom the Ruler of Jind under an agreement, Ex.	A, and as itis  this document that forms the basis of the present  claimof the appellant, it is necessary to refer to the,  materialterms  thereof.	 Clause (1) of the agreement grants  to	 thelicensee,  Shanti  Prasad  Jain,  the  sole  and   exclusivemonopoly right of manufacturing cement in the Jind State andfor that purpose he is authorised in Cl. (2) to win and workall  quarries,	strata,	 seams and beds	 of  kankar,  rorey,limestone  or  other like materials ". Under  Cl.  (7),	 thelicence is to last for a period of 25 years with option	 forsuccessive  renewals.	Clause (10) requires that  a  publiclimited	 company should be formed before July 21,  1936,  towork  the concessions, and that it should be  registered  inthe Jind State.	 Under Cl. (11), the State is to be allotted6  per cent. cumulative preference shares fully paid  up  ofthe face value of rupees one lack and ordinary shares  fullypaid  up of the total face value of Rs. 50,000	without	 anypayment	 whatsoever.   Then  there are	provisions  for	 thepayment	 of  royalty  to the State and	sale  of  cement  atconcession  rates to local consumers.  Clause (23)  is	verymaterial for the present dispute, and is as follows:93732" The Company shall be assessed to income-tax in  accordancewith  the State procedure but the rate of  income-tax  shallalways	be  four per cent. up to a limit of  the  income  ofrupees five lacs and five per cent. on such income as is  inexcess	of  rupees five lacs........... Clause	(24)  grantsexemption  from	 export, import and other  duties  exceptingconsmers.   Clause  (37)  provides  for	 settlement  of	 alldisputes between the parties by arbitration.In  accordance with the terms set out above,  the  appellantcompany was duly incorporated in the Jind State, and on	 May27,  1938, Shanti Prasad Jain executed in its favour a	deedagreeing  to  transfer	all "  his  rights,  privileges	 andobligations " under Ex.	 A. The appellant claims that it hasbecome in this wise entitled as assignee of the licensee  toall  the benefits granted under Ex.  A. The  contention	 wasraised	by the respondent that the deed dated May 27,  1938,does  not  itself  purport to assign the  rights  under	 thelicense,  Ex. A but merely agrees to do so, and that in	 theabsence	 of  a further deed transferring those	rights,	 theappellant  could not claim the rights of assignee.  But	 Cl.(35)  expressly provides that " the licensee shall  transferhis  rights to the proposed Company on its formation ",	 andafter	the  appellant	was  incorporated,  the	 State	 hadthroughout  recognised	it  as the person  entitled  to	 therights and subject to the obligations under the license	 andrealised  royalty and levied income-tax in  accordance	withthe  provisions of Ex.	A. This objection was taken for	 thefirst time only in the Writ Petition No. 276 of 1953 in thisCourt.	 It  is	 stated for the appellant-and  that  is	 notcontroverted  for the respondent-that under the law of	JindState  an assignment need not be in writing, and that  beingso,  it	 is  open to us to infer such  assignment  from	 theconduct	 of the parties.  We must accordingly  decide  thesecases on the footing that the rights under the license,	 Ex.A,  dated April 1, 1938, had become vested in the  appellantby assignment.On  August  15, 1947, India became independent, and  on	 thesame  date,  the  Ruler	 of Jind  signed  an  Instrument  ofAccession ceding to the Government of India733power to legislate with respect to Defence, External Affairsand Communications.  On May 5, 1948, eight of the Rulers  ofStates in East Punjab including Jind entered into a Covenantfor  the merger of their territories into one State,  calledthe Patiala and East Punjab States Union.  For brevity, thisState  will hereafter be referred to as the  Patiala  Union.Article VI of the Covenant on which the appellant relies  insupport of its claim is as follows:" The Ruler of each Covenanting State shall, as soon as	 maybe  practicable,  and in any event not later than  the	20thAugust,	 1948, make over the administration of his State  tothe Raj Pramukh; and thereupon,(a)all	rights, authority and jurisdiction belonging to	 theRuler  which appertain, or are incidental to the  Governmentof  the Covenanting State shall vest in the Union and  shallhereafter  be exercisable only as provided by this  Covenantor by the Constitution to be framed thereunder;(b)all	duties	and obligations of the Ruler  pertaining  orincidental to the Government of the Covenanting State  shalldevolve on the Union and shall be discharged by it;(c)all the assets and liabilities of the Covenanting State "shall be the assets and liabilities of the Union; and(d)the	military  forces, if any, of the  Covenanting  Stateshall become the military forces of the Union."Article	 X  provides that a Constituent Assembly  should  beformed	as early as practicable, and that it should frame  aConstitution for the State, and that until the	Constitutionis  so framed, the Rajpramukh is to have power to  make	 andpromulgate  Ordinances for the peace and good government  ofthe  Union.  Under Art.	 XVI, the Union " guarantees  eitherthe  continuance in service of the permanent members of	 thepublic	services  of  each  of	the  Covenanting  States  onconditions which will be not less advantageous than those onwhich  they were serving on the 1st February, 1948,  or	 thepayment	  of  reasonable  compensation	or   retirement	  orproportionate pension."734In accordance with Art.	 VI of the Covenant, the  Rajpramukhof the Patiala Union took over the administration of Jind onAugust 20, 1948, and immediately after assumption of office,he  promulgated	 the Patiala and East  Punjab  States  UnionAdministration Ordinance No. 1 of S. 2005.  Section 3 of theOrdinance, which is material for the present discussion,  isas follows:  " As soon as the administration of any  covenanting  Statehas  been  taken over by the Raj Pramukh  as  aforesaid	 allLaws,  Ordinances, Acts, Rules, Regulations,  Notifications,Hidayate  Firman-i-Shahi,  having force of  law	 in  PatialaState  on the date of commencement of this  Ordinance  shallapply mutatis mutandis to the territories of the said  Stateand  with  effect from that date all laws in force  in	suchCovenanting  State  immediately before that  date  shall  berepealed:Provided  that proceedings of any nature whatsoever  pendingon  such  date	in  the	 courts	 or  offices  of  any	suchCovenanting State shall, notwithstanding anything  containedin  this Ordinance or any other Ordinance be disposed of  inaccordance with the laws governing such proceedings in forcefor the time being in any such Covenanting State."This  Ordinance	 came  into force on August  20,  1948.	  OnFebruary 5, 1949, it was repealed and replaced by  OrdinanceNo. XVI of S. 2006, s. 3(a) whereof being in the same  termsas s. 3 of Ordinance No. 1 of 8. 2005.Article	  X(1)	of  the	 Covenant  provided,  as  has	beenmentioned,  for the framing of a Constitution for the  Unionin  the	 manner	 provided therein.  That,  however  did	 notmaterialise, and on November 24, 1949, the Rajpramukh issueda proclamation accepting the Indian Constitution as that  ofthe Patiala Union, and thus, the Union became a Part B Stateunder  the  Constitution.  On April 13,	 1950,	the  PatialaUnion accepted the Federal Financial Integration Scheme, andbecame	a  taxable territory of the Union of India  and	 theIndian Finance Act, 1950, became applicable to it from April13,  1950.   The  position, therefore, is  that	 as  regardsliability to be assessed to income-tax735which  is what we are concerned with in	 these	proceedings,the law applicable to the appellant for the period prior  toAugust	20, 1948, was the income-tax law of' Jind,  for	 theperiod	August	20,  1948, to April 13,	 1950,	the  PatialaIncome-tax  Act,  S.  2001,  which  came  into	force  underOrdinance  No.	1 of S. 2005 and after April 13,  1950,	 theIndian Income-tax Act.Civil  Appeal No. 230 of 1954 arises out of proceedings	 forassessment  of	income-tax for the year 1949-1950.   By	 itsorder  dated November 11, 1952, the Appellate  Tribunal	 hasfound that the taxable profits of the appellant for the yearof account which is the calendar year 1948 was Rs. 1,94,265,and  that  finding is not now in dispute.   The	 substantialpoint  now  in controversy is as to the rate  at  which	 taxshould	be levied on that amount, whether it should be	whatis  enacted in the Patiala Income-tax Act as  contended	 forthe  respondent,  or  what is provided in Cl.  (23)  of	 theagreement,  Ex.	  A, as claimed by the appellant.   On	thisquestion, the Appellate Tribunal held that the Patiala Unionwhich  was  a new State that had come into  existence  as  aresult	of  the	 Covenant was not bound	 by  the  agreementsentered	 into  previously by the rulers of  the	 CovenantingStates,	 that the appellant could claim the benefit of	thatagreement  only	 if the new State chose to recognise  it,  "that there had been, in fact, no such recognition, and that,in  consequence, the tax was leviable as prescribed  in	 thePatiala Income-tax Act, S. 2001.  On the application of	 theappellant,  the	 Tribunal  referred under s.  66(1)  of	 theIndian	Income-tax  Act,  the  following  question  for	 theopinion of the High Court:"  Whether the asseessee's profits and gains earned  in	 thecalendar year 1948 were assessable for S. 2006 (1949-50)  atthe  rates in force according to the Patiala Income-Tax	 Actof S. 2001 read with section 3 of the Patiala & East  PunjabStates	Union Administration Ordinance (No.  1 of S.  2005),as  repealed  and re-enacted in section 3 of the  Patiala  &East Punjab States Union General Provisions (Administration)Ordinance  (No.	 XVI of 2006), or in accordance with  clause(23) of the agreement of April, 1938 above referred to,"736By their judgment dated June 7, 1954, the learned ,Judges ofthe High Court answered the question against the  appellant,but granted a certificate under s. 66(A)(2)  of	 the  IndianIncome-tax Act, and that is   how  Civil Appeal No.  230  of1954  comes before us.Meantime,   proceedings	  were	taken  by   the	  Income-taxauthorities  for assessment of tax for years  subsequent  to1949-1950,  and	 the dispute again related to  the  questionwhether the amount of tax should be determined in accordancewith  Cl.  (23) of Ex.	A or the provisions  of	 the  IndianIncome-tax  Act,  1922.	  The  Income-tax  Officer,  Rohtak,rejected the contention of the appellant that it was  liableto  pay	 tax  only in accordance with.	Ex.   A	 and  passedorders	determining  the  tax under the	 provisions  of	 theIndian	Incometax  Act for the year 1950-1951 on  April	 28,1952,  for 1951-1952 on May 12, 1952, and for  1952-1953  onMarch  17,  1953.  Appeals against these  orders  have	beenpreferred  by  the  appellant, and they	 are  stated  to  bepending before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.  On theallegation  that the tax as imposed in the orders  aforesaidis  unauthorised,  and	that  it  constitutes  an   unlawfulinterference with its rights to carry on business guaranteedunder  Art. 19(1)(g), the appellant has filed  Petition	 No.276   of  1953	for  an	 appropriate  writ   directing	 therespondents  to levy tax in accordance with  the  agreement,Ex.   A, dated April 1, 1938.  In support of this  petition,in  addition to the contentions raised in Civil	 Appeal	 No.230 of 1954 the petitioner also urges that even if the Unionof India is entitled to repudiate the agreement dated  April1,  1938, it has not, in fact, done so, and that it has,  onthe  other hand, recognised it as good and is therefore	 notentitled now to go back upon it, and that the levy of tax inaccordance with the provisions of the Indian Income-tax	 Actis  accordingly illegal.  As the contentions raised  in	 theappeal and in the petition are substantially identical, theywere heard together.Before	us, the validity of the assessment of incometax	 forthe  year  1949-1950  was challenged by Mr.  Pathak  on	 thefollowing grounds:737(1)Ordinance  No.  1 of S. 2005 under  which  the  PatialaIncome-tax Act Act is sought to be applied -to the appellantdoes  not,  on	its true  construction,	 annul'	 the  rightsgranted under Ex.  A.(2)If  the  Ordinance in question is to	 be  construed	ashaving that effect, then it is in contravention of Art.	  VIof the Covenant, and is therefore unconstitutional and void.(3)Even apart from the Covenant, the agreement, Ex. A,	isbinding	 on the Patiala Union and the impugned Ordinance  isbad as infringing it; and(4)the	Patiala Union had, in fact, recognised the  rightsgranted	 under Ex.  A and it is therefore binding on it,  asif it were a contract entered into by itself.(1)On  the first question, the argument of Mr.	Pathak	isthis:  The  Ruler of Jind was an absolute monarch,  and	 hisword was law.  The agreement, Ex. A, must therefore be	heldto  be	a  special law conferring rights  on  the  licensee.Section	 3  of	Ordinance  No. 1 of S.	2005  is  a  generalprovision extending all laws of the State of Patiala to	 theterritories   of  the  Covenanting  States.   The  rule	  ofconstruction  is  well	established  that  general  statutesshould	be  interpreted so as not to interfere	with  rightscreated	 tinder	 special laws.	Section 3 of  the  Ordinanceshould therefore be construed as not intended to affect	 therights	conferred  under Ex.  A. Reliance is placed  on	 thestatement   of	the  law  in  Maxwell's	 Interpretation	  ofStatutes,   10th  Edn.,	 pp.  176  and	180,  and   on	 theobservations  in Blackpool Corporation v. Starr	 Estate	 Co.(1).   Now the rule of construction expressed in  the  maximgeneralia   specialibus	  non  derogant	 is   well   settledand we shall also assume in favour of the appellant that theagreement,  Ex.	  A,  is a special law in the  nature  of  aprivate	 Act  passed  by the British  Parliament,  and	thataccordingly  s. 3 of the Ordinance should not be  construed,unless	the  contrary  appears	expressly  or  by  necessaryimplication,  as  repealing the provisions of  Ex.   A.	 Butultimately,  the question is what does the language  of	 theenactment mean ? Section 3 is quite explicit, and(1)[1922] 1 A. C. 27, 34.738it  provides that from the date of the commencement  of	 theOrdinance  "  all laws in force in such	 Covenanting  Statesimmediately  before that date shall be repealed ",  and	 theproviso	 further enacts that pending proceedings are  to  bedisposed  of in accordance with laws in force for  the	timebeing,	in  the	 Covenanting States.  In the  face  of	thislanguage  which	 is  clear and unqualified, it	is  idle  tocontend that Ordinance No. 1 of S. 2005 saves the rights  ofthe  appellant to the tax concessions under Cl. (23) of	 Ex.A.(2)It is next contended by Mr. Pathak that if Ordinance	 No.1  of S. 2005 is to be construed as extinguishing the  rightto concessions conferred under Ex.  A, then it must be	heldto  be unconstitutional and void.  This contention is  basedon  Art.   VI (b) of the Covenant, which provides  that	 theobligations  of	 the rulers pertaining to or  incidental  togovernment  of	the Covenanting State shall devolve  on	 theUnion and be discharged by it.	It is argued that the  Rulerof  Jind had for good and valuable consideration  undertakencertain obligations under Cl. (23) of Ex.  A with  referenceto  taxation which is a governmental function, that  he	 hadhimself	 scrupulously  honoured	 them so long as  he  was  aRuler, and then passed them on under Art.  VI (b) to the newState  created under the Covenant, that the  Rajpramukh	 whowas  a party to the Covenant and claimed under it was  boundby that obligation, that his power to enact laws is  subjectunder Art.  VI (a) to the obligations mentioned in Art.	  VI(b), and that the impugned law is, if it is to be  construedas having the effect of abrogating those obligations,  ultravires his powers under the Covenant and is, in	consequence,void.	In answer to this, the respondent contends that	 theCovenant  entered into by the rulers is an act of State	 andthat  any violation of its terms cannot form the subject  ofany  action  in the municipal courts, that  the	 obligationsmentioned  in  Art.  VI (b) refer not to  liabilities  underagreements for which there was special provision in Art.  VI(c) but to obligations of the character contemplated by	 theInstrument of Accession, and that, in any event, the  rightsgranted to the - licensee under Ex.  A were739terminable  by	the  Ruler of Jind at  will,  and  that,  inconsequence,  if the obligation under Cl. (23)	devolved  onthe Raj Pramukh under Art.  VI (b) it did so subject' to hisrights	under Art.  VI (a) to terminate it if he so  willed,and  that, therefore, the impugned law did not violate	Art.VI (b).The  question  that arises for our decision is	whether	 theCovenant was an act of State.  On that, there can be no	 twoopinions.   It	was  a	treaty entered	into  by  rulers  ofindependent States, by which they gave up their	 sovereigntyover  their  respective territories, and vested	 it  in	 theruler  of a new State.	The expression " act of State "	 is,it  is	scarcely necessary to say, not	limited	 to  hostileaction	between	 rulers	 resulting  in	the  occupation	  ofterritories.  It includes all acquisitions of territory by asovereign  State  for  the  first time,	 whether  it  be  byconquest  or  cession.	Vide Vajesingji Joravar	 Singji	 andothers	v. Secretary of State (1) and Thakur Amar Singji  v.State  of  Rajasthan  (2).  And on principle,  it  makes  nodifference  as	to  the nature of the  act,  whether  it  isacquisition  of new territory by an existing State or as  inthe   present  case,  formation	 of  a	new  State  out	  ofterritories  belonging to quondam States.  In  either  case,there is establishment of new sovereignty over the territoryin question, and that is an act of State.Mr. Pathak did not contest the position that the Covenant inso far as it provided for the extinction of the	 sovereigntyof   the   rulers  of  the  Covenanting	  States   and	 theestablishment  of  a new State is an act of State.   But  hecontended that it was much more than that, that it was	alsoin  the	 nature of a Constitution for the new State  in	 thesense  that it is a law under which all the  authorities  ofthe  new  State including the Raj Pramukh had  to  act.	  Insupport	 of  this contention he referred to Art.   X,  whichprovided for the convening of a Constituent Assembly for theframing of the Constitution, and argued that the Articles ofthe  Covenant which provided for the administration  of	 theState by the Rajpramukh were in the nature of an interin(1)(1924) L. R. 51 I. A. 357, 360.94(2) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 303, 335.740Constitution.  He also relied on Art.  XVI, which guaranteedthe rights of the permanent members of	the public  servicesin  the	 Covenanting States to continuance in  service,	 andcontended that this could not be regarded as an act of Statebut only as a law relating to the administration of the	 newState.	 In this view of the Covenant, he argued,  Art.	  VImust  be held to be a constitutional provision	enacted	 forthe  protection	 of private rights, that it was,  in  conse-quence, binding on the ruler of the new State, and that	 themunicipal courts were competent to grant appropriate reliefsfor the breach thereof.This  argument proceeds, in our view, on a misconception  asto  what is an act of state and what is a law of  the  Stateconferring rights on the subject, or, as the learned counselfor  the  appellant termed it, Constitution  of	 the  State.When the sovereign of a Statemeaning by that expression, theauthority  in which the sovereignty of the State is  vested,enacts a law which creates, declares or recognises rights inthe subjects, any infraction of those rights would be action-able  in the courts of that State even when that  infractionis by the State acting through its officers.  It would be nodefence to that action that the act complained of is an	 actof state, because as between the sovereign and his  subjectsthere  is  no  such  thing as an act of	 state,	 and  it  isincumbent on his officers to show that their action which isunder challenge is within the authority conferred on them bylaw.  Altogether different considerations arise when the actof  the	 sovereign has reference not to the  rights  of	 hissubjects  but  to acquisition of  territories  belonging  toanother sovereign. That	 is  a matter  between	independentsovereigns,and	any  dispute arising therefrom	must  besettled byrecourse  not	 to  municipal	law  of	 eitherStates but to diplomatic action, and that failing, to force.That  is  an act of state pure and simple, and that  is	 itscharacter  until the process of acquisition is completed  byconquest  or cession.  Now, the status of the  residents  ofthe  territories  which	 are thus  acquired  is	 that  untilacquisition is completed as aforesaid they are the  subjectsof the ex-sovereign of those territories741and   thereafter  they	become	the  subjects  of  the	 newsovereign.  It is also well established that in the new set-up these residents do not carry with them the, rights  whichthey possessed as subjects of the ex-sovereign, and that  assubjects  of the new sovereign, they: have only such  rightsas  are	 granted or recognised by him.	 Vide  Secretary  ofState for India v. Bai Rajbai (1), Vajesingji Joravar Singjiand others v. Secretary of State (2), Secretary of State  v.Sardar Rustam Khan (3) and Asrar Ahmed v. Durgah  Committee,Ajmer (4).  In law, therefore, the process of acquisition ofnew  territories is one continuous act of state	 terminatingon  the assumption of sovereign powers de jure over them  bythe  new  sovereign and it is only  thereafter	that  rightsaccrue to the residents of those territories as subjects  ofthat sovereign.	 In other words, as regards the residents ofterritories   which  come  under  the  dominion	 of  a	 newsovereign,  the right of citizenship commences when the	 actof state terminates and the two therefore cannot co-exist.It follows from this that no act done or declaration made bythe  new  sovereign  prior to his  assumption  of  sovereignpowers over acquired territories can quoad the residents  ofthose  territories be regarded as having the character of  alaw  conferring on them rights such as could be agitated  inhis courts.  In accordance with this principle, it has	beenheld  over and over again that clauses in a  treaty  enteredinto by independent rulers providing for the recognition  ofthe rights of the subjects of the ex-sovereign are incapableof enforcement in the courts of the new sovereign.  In	Cookv. Sprigg (5), the facts were that the ruler of Pondoland inAfrica	had  granted certain concessions in  favour  of	 theappellants  and subsequently ceded those territories to	 theBritish Government.  The latter having declined to recognisethose concessions, the appellants sued for a declaration  oftheir  rights thereunder, and the question was whether	theyhad  a	right  of action in respect of what was	 an  act  ofState.	One of the contentions(1)  (1015) L.R. 42 I.A. 229.(3)  (1941) L.R. 68 I.A. 109.(2)  (1924) L. R. 51 T.A. 357, 360.(4)  A.I.R. 1947 P.C. 1.(5)   [1899] A.C. 572,578.742urged on their behalf was that the ruler of Pondoland had atthe time of cession of his territories expressed his  desireto the British Government that the concessions in favour  ofthe   appellants   should  be  recognised   and	  that,	  inconsequence,  the appellants had the right to  enforce	themagainst	 the new Government.  In rejecting this	 contention,the Lord Chancellor observed:"  The taking possession by Her Majesty, whether by  cessionor by any other means by which sovereignty can be  acquired,was  an act of state and treating Sigcau as  an	 independentsovereign-which	 the  appellants  are  compelled  to  do  inderiving title from him.  It is a well-established principleof  law that the transactions of independent States  betweeneach  other  are  governed by other laws  than	those  whichmunicipal courts administer.""It  is no answer to say that by the ordinary principles  ofinternational  law  private  property is  respected  by	 thesovereign  which accepts the cession and assumes the  dutiesand  legal obligations of the former sovereign with  respectto  such private property within the ceded  territory.	 Allthat  can  be properly meant by such a proposition  is	thataccording to the well-understood rules of international	 lawa  change  of  sovereignty by cession ought  not  to  affectprivate property, but no municipal tribunal has authority toenforce	 such  an  obligation.	And if there  is  either  anexpress	 or  a well-understood bargain	between	 the  cedingpotentate  and the Government to which the cession  is	madethat  private  property shall be respected, that is  only  abargain	 which	can  be enforced by  sovereign	against	 thesovereign in the ordinary course of diplomatic pressure."In  Vajesingji	Joravar Singji and others  v.  Secretary  OfState for India (1), the dispute related to the title of theappellants  to certain lands situated in the  Panch  Mahals.This  area  formed at one time part of the dominion  of	 theScindias  of  Gwalior,	and  it was  ceded  to	the  BritishGovernment by treaty on December 12, 1860.  Clauses (2)	 and(3) of the treaty provided for(1)(1924) L.R. 51 I.A. 357, 360.743the  recognition  by  the new sovereign	 of  rights  of	 theresidents  under existing leases, jagirs and the like.	 Thecomplaint  of  the appellants was that in 1907	the  BritishGovernment had proposed to lease the lands to them on  termswhich infringed their proprietary rights, and that this	 wasin  violation of the rights which had been guaranteed  underCls.  (2)  and (3) of the treaty, and was,  in	consequence,bad.   The answer of the Government was that the  treaty  inquestion was an act of state and conferred no rights on	 theappellants.   In  upholding this  contention,  Lord  Dunedinobserved:" When a territory is acquired by a sovereign state for	 thefirst time that is an act of state.  It matters not how	 theacquisition has been brought about.  It may be by  conquest,it  may	 be  by cession following on treaty, it	 may  be  byoccupation of territory hitherto unoccupied by a  recognisedruler.	In all cases the result is the same.  Any inhabitantof  the	 territory  can make good in  the  municipal  courtsestablished  by the new sovereign only such rights  as	thatsovereign  has,	 through  his  officers,  recognized.	Suchrights	as he had under the rule of predecessors  avail	 himnothing.   Nay	more, even if in a treaty of cession  it  is,stipulated  that certain inhabitants should  enjoy  certainrights,	 that does not give a title to those inhabitants  toenforce	 these	stipulations in the municipal  courts.	 Theright  to  enforce remains only with  the  high	 contractingparties."In Hoani Te Heuheu Tukino v. Aotea District Maori Land Board(1),  the  question arose with reference to  the  Treaty  ofWaitangi  entered  into by the British Government  with	 thenative chiefs of New Zealand in 1840.  Under cl. (1) of	 theTreaty,	 there was a complete cession by the chiefs  of	 alltheir	rights	and  powers  of	 sovereignty.	Clause	 (2)guaranteed  to	the chiefs, the tribes	and  the  respectivefamilies  and individuals certain rights in  lands,  forestsand  fisheries.	  In 1935, the Legislature  of	New  Zealandenacted	 a  law, the provisions of which  were	impugned  asultra vires on the ground that they infrigned the rights(1)  [1941] A.C. 308.744protected by cl. (2) of the Treaty of Waitangi.	 In  holdingthat  the  rights under the Treaty furnished no	 ground	 foraction in the civil courts, Viscount Simon L. C. referred tothe  decision  in Vajesingji Joravar Singji  and  others  v.Secretary of State (1) and observed :"  So  far as the appellant invokes the	 assistance  of	 thecourt,	it  is clear that he cannot rest his  claim  on	 theTreaty of Waitangi, and that he must refer the court to somestatutory recognition of the right claimed by him."The result of the authorities then is that when a treaty  isentered into by sovereigns of independent States  whereundersovereignty  in	 territories passes from one to	 the  other,clauses	 therein  providing for the recognition by  the	 newsovereign  of the existing rights of the residents of  thoseterritories must be regarded as invested with the  characterof  an	act  of state and no claim based  thereon  could  beenforced  in a court of law.  It must follow from this	thatthe  Covenant in question entered into by the rulers of	 theCovenanting  States is in its entirety an act of state,	 andthat  Art.   VI	 therein cannot operate	 to  confer  on	 theappellant  any	right as against the  Patiala  Union.	Thisconclusion  becomes  all  the more impregnable	when  it  isremembered that the Covenant was signed by the rulers on May5,  1948,  whereas  the new state came into  being  only  onAugust	20,  1948.   In	 the  decisions	 cited	above,	 thesovereign against whom the obligations created by the treatywere  sought  to  be enforced was  the	very  sovereign	 whoentered	 into that treaty or his successor.  But  here,	 theruler  of the Patiala Union against whom Art.  VI is  soughtto  be	enforced  was not a party to the  Covenant  at	all,because that State had not come into existence on that date.The  person  who signed the Covenant was the  ruler  of	 theState  of Patiala which was one of the	Covenanting  States,but  that  State  as well as the seven	other  States  whichentered	 into  the Covenant stood all of them  dissolved  onAugust 20, 1948, when the new Patiala Union came into being.The new State could not and did not enter into any  covenantbefore	August	20, 1948, and therefore, in  strictness,  itcannot be(1)  (1924) L.R. 511.  A. 357, 360.745held to be bound by Art.  VI, to which it was not a party.Considerable  emphasis	was laid for the appellant  on	Art.XVI  of	 the Covenant under which the Union  guaranteed	 thecontinuance  of the service of permanent members  of  publicservices, and this 'was relied on as showing that the rightsof  the subjects of the quondam States were intended  to  beprotected.   This argument is sufficiently answered by	whatwe have already observed, namely, that a clause in a  treatybetween	 high contracting parties does not confer any  righton  the subjects which could be made the  subject-matter  ofaction	in  the courts, and that the Patiala  Union  is	 notbound by it, because it was not a party to the Covenant.  Itshould,	 however, be mentioned that after the  formation  ofthe new State oil August 20, 1948, the first legislative actof the sovereign was the promulgation of Ordinance No. 1  ofS. 2005, and s. 4 thereof expressly recognises the rights ofthe permanent members of public services.  That	 undoubtedlyis  a law enacted by the sovereign conferring rights on	 hissubjects and enforceable in a court of law, but at the	sametime  the enactment of such a law serves to  emphasise	thatthe  Articles  have not in themselves the force of  law	 andwere  not intended to create or recognise rights.   In	thisconnection, reference should also be made to cl.  XVI of theOrdinance which enacts that " the provisions of articles  XVand  XVII  of the Covenant relating to the  bar	 of  certainsuits and proceedings shall have the force of law."In  support of his contention that Art.	 VI of the  Covenantis to be regarded as a Constitutional provision, counsel forthe appellant relied on certain passages in the judgment  ofthis  Court in Thakur Amar Singji v. State of Rajasthan	 (1)at  pp. 313 and 315 wherein a similar covenant entered	intoby the rulers of Rajasthan was described as a  Constitution.Apart  from  the use of the word " Constitution ",  we	findnothing in these passages which has any bearing on the pointnow under consideration.  There, the question was as regardsthe vires of a law enacted by(1)[1955] 2 S.C.R. 303.746the Rajpramukh of Rajasthan, and that depended on whether hewas  the authority in whom the legislative authority of	 theState  was  vested within Art. 385.  This  Court  held	thatunder  the Covenant it was the Rajpramukh who had the  powerto  enact  laws, and that the Ordinance issued	by  him	 wastherefore  valid,  and	it  was in  that  context  that	 thecovenant  was referred to as a Constitution.  We had not  toconsider there the question whether the Covenant was an	 actof state, or whether it was a law conferring on the citizensof  the	 defunct States rights which were enforceable  in  acourt  of  law.	 No such question arose	 for  decision,	 andtherefore the description of the Covenant as a	Constitutioncannot	be  read as importing a decision that it  is  a	 lawconferring  rights and not an act of state.  In the  result,we hold that the Covenant is in whole and in parts an act ofstate, that Art.  VI therein does not operate to confer	 anyrights on the subjects of the Covenanting States as  againstthe  sovereign of the new State constituted thereunder,	 andthat Ordinance No. 1 of S. 2005 is, in consequence, not opento attack as being a violation of Art.	VI.(3)We  shall now consider the contention of the	 appellantthat even apart from Art.  VI of the Covenant, the  impugnedOrdinance  No.	1 of S. 2005 is bad in so far as  it  annulsrights	granted	 by the Ruler of Jind  under  the  agreementdated  April 1, 1938.  It was argued that Ex.  A was  not  amere concession which could be withdrawn by the sovereign athis will and pleasure, but that it was an agreement  enteredinto  for valuable consideration and creating mutual  rightsand  obligations,  that	 the appellant had,  acting  on	 theagreement, allotted to the State shares of the value of	 Rs.1,50,000  without  payment  and	 had  incurred	considerableexpense in working the concessions, and that, therefore,  itwas  not open to the Patiala Union to go back upon it.	 Thedecisions  in The Piqua Branch of the State Bank of Ohio  v.Knoop  (1)  and	 Home of the Friendless v.  Rouse  (2)	wererelied on as authorities for the proposition that a State isnot   competent	  to  revoke  a	 grant	made   by   it	 forconsideration.(1) (1853) 14 L. Ed. 977,(2) (1869) 19 L. Ed- 495.747In The Piqua Branch of the State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop	(1),a law of the State of Ohio of the year 1845 had provided forthe incorporation of Banks and it contained provisions as tothe  taxes  payable  by them to the State and  the  mode  of-payment.   In	1851 another Act was passed, the  effect  ofwhich  was to increase the tax payable and the	validity  ofthis Act was questioned by a Bank incorporated under the Actof 1845.  It was held by the majority of the Court that	 theAct  of 1845 was a legislative contract, and that the  StateLegislature was not competent to impair the rights which hadbeen   acquired	 under	that  contract.	  In  Home  of	 theFriendless  V.	Rouse (2), a Society called the Home of	 theFriendless  was established under a charter granted  by	 theState  of  Missouri.   The charter  had	 provided  that	 theproperties  of	the Society shall be exempt  from  taxation.Subsequently, the State proposed to withdraw the  concessionand  impose  tax.  It was held by the Supreme Court  of	 theUnited	States that the charter was a contract entered	intobetween	 the  State and the Society, and that there  was  nopower in the State to go behind it.Now,  it should be observed that the decisions	cited  abovewere given on S. 10 of Art.  1 of the American	Constitutionthat  " no State shall pass a law impairing the	 obligationsof  contracts ". There is, in our Constitution,	 no  similarprovision  protecting  contractual  rights,  and  it   wouldtherefore  be  unsafe  to rely on  American  authorities  indeciding  on  the validity of legislation  which  interfereswith  rights under contracts.  And moreover, we are  dealingwith  a contract entered into by a sovereign,  whose  powerswere not subject to any constitutional limitation, and whoseword  was, as contended for the appellant, law.	  But  apartfrom  this,  there  is	an  obvious  reason  why  the  abovedecisions  have no application to the  present	controversy.The  point for decision there was whether a State which	 hadentered into a contract with its subjects conferring  rightson them was entitled to enact a law abridging or  abrogatingthose rights,(1)  (1853) 14 L. Ed. 977.(2) (1869) 19 L. Ed. 495.95748and the answer was in the negative.  But here, the ,impugnedlaw  is that of the Patiala Union and the contract which  itaffects	 is  not a contract entered into by it	but  by	 theRuler  of  Jind and unless it can be  established  that	 theobligations  of the Ruler have devolved on the sovereign  ofthe  Patiala Union, the question whether he could  repudiateobligations undertaken by him cannot arise.  That would havearisen	for  consideration  if Art.  VI had  the  effect  ofimposing  obligations on him.  But on our finding that	thatis not its effect, there is no scope for the contention thatthe  impugned  Ordinance  is  bad  as  involving  breach  ofcontractual  obligations,  which were entered  into  by	 thePatiala Union, or which devolved on it.(4)Lastly,  we	have to deal with the  contention  of  Mr.Pathak	that the Patiala Union had affirmed  the  agreement,Ex.   A, that, in consequence, it was bound by it as  if  ithad  itself entered into it, and that the liability  of	 theappellant  to income-tax should therefore be  determined  inaccordance with Cl. (23) thereof.  This contention would  beirrefragable  if the Patiala Union had, as a fact,  affirmedthe agreement.	But has that been established ? It has	beenalready observed that the rights of the appellant under	 Ex.A  would  become  enforceable  only if	the  new  State	 hadaccorded  recognition  to  them,  and  what  is	  requisite,therefore, is a declaration or conduct of the Patiala  Unionsubsequent  to	its  formation which could  be	regarded  asamounting  to  affirmation of Ex.  A. Of that, there  is  noevidence  whatsoever.  On the other hand, the first  act  ofthe  Rajpramukh	 after assumption of office by him  was	 thepromulgation  of Ordinance No. 1 of S. 2005, the  effect  ofwhich  was to sweep away the rights of the  appellant  underCl.  (23)  of  Ex.  A. It was argued that Art.	 VI  of	 theCovenant  would	 at least be valuable  evidence	 from  whichaffirmance of those rights could be inferred.  That is so  ;but that inference must relate to act or conduct of the	 newState,	and that can only be after its formation  on  August20,  1948.   If there were any acts of the new	State  whichwere equivocal in character, it would have been possible  tohold in the light of Art.  VI of the749Covenant that its intention was to affirm the concessions inCl.  (23)  of  Ex.  A. But the act  of	the  new.  sovereignimmediately after he became in titulo was the application ofthe Patiala State laws including the Patiala Income-tax	 Actto  the	 territories  of Jind involving	 negation  of  thoserights.	  It was said that the levy of income-tax for  1948-1949 was made in accordance with Ex.  A, but that relates toa  period anterior to the formation of the new State and  iswithin	the  saving enacted in the proviso to s.  3  of	 theOrdinance.   The  appellant has failed to  substantiate	 hisplea that there has been affirmance of Cl. (23) of Ex. A  bythe  Patiala State Union, and this point also must be  foundagainst it.All the contentions urged in support of the appeal fail, andit must therefore be dismissed with costs.Coming next to Petition No. 276 of 1953, in addition to	 thecontentions  already dealt with, the petitioner	 urged	thatwhatever its rights under the law prior to the Constitution,when  once it came into force it conferred on  the  citizenscertain	 fundamental rights, that the tax concessions  whichthe petitioner had under the agreement, Ex.  A, were  rightsto  property and they were protected by Art.  19(1)(f),	 andthat  it was entitled to seek redress under Art. 32  of	 theConstitution when those rights were violated.  The  decisionin  Virendra Singh and others v. The State of Uttar  Pradesh(1) is relied on in support of this position.  This argumentassumes	 that there were in existence at the date  when	 theConstitution came into force, some rights in the  petitionerwhich are capable of being protected by Art. 19(1)(f).	 Butin  the view which we have taken that the concessions  underCl. (23) of Ex. A came to an end when Ordinance No. 1 of  S.2005  was  promulgated, the petitioner had  no	rights	sub-sisting on the date of the Constitution and therefore  therewas nothing on which the guarantees enacted in Art. 19(1)(f)could operate.	The petition must therefore be dismissed  onthis  short  ground.   In this view, it	 is  unnecessary  toexpress any opinion on the soundness of the contention basedon Art. 295 which was(1)  [1955] I S.C.R. 415.750urged  in support of the petition, or on the scope of	Art.363.  The petitioner will pay the costs of the respondents.BOSE  J.-I agree, but want to reserve my opinion on a  pointthat  does not arise here but which the ratio of my  learnedbrother's judgment will cover unless the reservation that  Imake is set out.If  I judge aright, international opinion is  divided  aboutthe  effect  that a change of sovereignty has on  rights  toimmoveable property.  The English authorities hold that	 allrights to property, including those in real estate, are lostwhen a new sovereign takes over except in so far as the	 newsovereign chooses to recognise them or confer new rights  inthem.	But  that,  I  gather,	is  not	 the  view  of	 theInternational  Court  of Justice.  According to one  of	 itsopinions, which I have quoted at p. 426 of Virendra Singh v.State of Uttar Pradeshprivate rights acquired under existing law do not cease on achange of sovereignty."Certain American cases take the same view though they can bedistinguished on the facts.  But this view, as I  understandit, does not extend to personal rights, such as those  basedon  contract,  nor,  in any event, does	 the  new  sovereignassume	any obligations of the old State in the	 absence  ofexpress	 agreement.  I have referred to this at p. 427.	  Inany event, whether I am right in thinking that that is	whatI might call the international view, I would agree that	 forour ,country that is, and should be, the law so far as per-sonal rights are concerned.In  the present case, in so far as the right is	 claimed  onthe  basis of contract, it would fall to the ground  on	 anyview; and in so far as it is not founded on contract, it  isan  obligation	that  is sought to be fastened	on  the	 newState.	 There is no contract between the new State and	 theappellant,  so	there also he is out of court; and  even  ifthere  was some agreement or understanding between the	highcontracting   parties,	it  cannot  be	enquired  into,	  orenforced, by the municipal(1)[1955] 1 S. C. R. 415.751courts	of the new State.  So I agree that, so far  as	thiscase is concerned, the appellant must fail.But  my, learned brother's judgment is grounded to' a  largeextent on the views of the English courts which do not	drawthe distinction that I am drawing here.	 I therefore want tomake  it  clear	 that this decision must not be	 used  as  aprecedent  in a case in which rights to immoveable  propertyare concerned.	Without in any way committing myself to	 oneview or the other, as at present advised, I feel it may be apity  for us to disregard the trend of modern  internationalthought and continue to follow a line of decisions based  onthe views of an older Imperialism, when we are not bound  bythem  and  are free to mould our own laws in  the  light  ofmodern	thought	 and  conceptions about	 rights	 to  and  inimmoveable  property.  But in so far as the present case  isconcerned,  I agree that the appeal and the  petition  underArt. 32 should both be dismissed.Appeal and petition dismissed.