PETITIONER:M/S.  RAMAN & RAMAN LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF MADRAS & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:18/02/1959BENCH:ACT:       Motor  Vehicles-Legislation empowering State  Government	 to       issue   orders	and   directions-Interpretation-Nature	 of       jurisdiction  conferred-Such orders and directions,  if	law       regulating   rights   of	 Parties-Motor	 Vehicles   (Madras       Amendment) Act, 1948 (XX of 1948), s. 43A.HEADNOTE:The  appellant and the fourth respondent along	with  otherswere  applicants for a stage carriage permit.  The  RegionalTransport Authority after hearing the applicants granted thepermit to the appellant.  On appeal by the fourth respondentthe  Central Road Traffic Board set aside the order  of	 theRegional  Transport Authority and granted the permit to	 thefourth respondent.  The appellant moved the State Governmentin revision but to no effect.  He thereafter moved the	HighCourt  under  Art.  226 of the Constitution for	 a  writ  ofcertiorari  quashing the orders of the Central Road  TrafficBoard and the State Government.	 The single judge who  heardthe matter quashed228the said orders and directed the State Transport   AppellateTribunal, which was constituted in place of the Central RoadTraffic	 Board, to dispose of the appeal according  to	law.On  a  Letters Patent appeal by the fourth  respondent,	 theAppellate Bench of the High Court set aside the order of thesingle	judge  and restored the order of  the  Central	RoadTraffic	 Board.	  Hence this appeal by special	leave.	 Thepoint for determination in the appeal was whether the  ordergranting  the permit to the appellant made by  the  RegionalTransport  Authority on the basis of an order issued by	 theState  Government  under s. 43A of the Motor  Vehicles	Act,1939,  as amended by the Motor Vehicles	 (Madras  Amendment)Act, 1948, could be set aside on the basis of another  orderimposing new restrictions issued thereunder while the appealwas  pending before the Central Road Traffic Board and	thusinvolved  the question as to whether an order  or  directionissued	by the State Government under S. 43A of the Act	 hadthe  force  of law, so as to create a vested  right  in	 theappellant.Held (per jafer Imam and Subba Rao, jj.), that s. 43A of theMotor  Vehicles Act, 1939, as amended by the Motor  Vehicles(Madras	 Amendment) Act, 1948, properly construed,  must  begiven a restricted meaning and the jurisdiction it conferredon  the State Government must be confined to  administrativefunctions.   An	 order or direction made thereunder  by	 theState  Government, therefore, could not have the  status  oflaw  regulating	 rights of parties and must partake  of	 thecharacter of an administrative order.C.   S.	 S. Motor Service, Tenkasi v. The State	 of  Madras,I.L.R. 1953 Mad. 304 and Gopalakrishnan Motor Transport Co.,Ltd.  v.  Secretary, Regional Transport	 Authority,  KrishnaDistrict, Vijayawada, A.I.R. (1957) A.P. 882, approved.Consequently,  in the instant case, the appellant could	 notbe said to have acquired a vested right that was defeated bya  new law enforced pending the appeal and the order of	 theCentral Road Traffic Board could not be set aside merely  onthe ground that it had decided the appeal on the basis of anorder  issued subsequent to the grant of the permit if	suchorder was otherwise in public interest.Per Sarkar, J.-It could hardly be said that the rule that  acourt	hearing	 an  appeal  from  a  decision	should	 notordinarily  take into consideration a law passed  subsequentto  that  decision had application  where  a  quasi-judicialtribunal  heard	 an  appeal  from  another  such   tribunal.Consequently, in the instant case, it could not be said thatthere was an error of law apparent on the face of the recordso  as to attract a writ of certiorari and the	appeal	mustfail on that ground.No applicant for a permit under the Motor Vehicles Act couldhave a substantive right to the permit vested in him and229the  granting  or  refusal  of	a  permit  by  the  RegionalTransport Authority could not operate as res judicata.It  was unnecessary for the purpose of the present  case  todecide	what  kind of orders could be issued  by  the  StateGovernment under s. 43A of the Act, for whatever its nature,administrative or otherwise, if an order under that  sectionentitled  a person to its observance, and there	 was  hardlyany  doubt as to that, it would be a law a mistake of  whichwould  justify	the  issue of a writ of	 certiorari  at	 hisinstance.The Mayor of Rochester v. The Queen, (1858) EL.	 BL. &	E.L.1924; 120 E.R. 791, referred to.Nagendra Nath Bora v. The Commissioner of Hills Division andAppeals, Assam, [1958] S.C.R. 1240, distinguished.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 37 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedSeptember 14, 1956, of the Madras High Court in Writ  AppealNo. 64 of 1956, arising out of the judgment and order  datedMay 1, 1956, of the said High Court in Writ Petition No. 852of 1955.G.   S. Pathak, R. Ganapathy lyer and O. Gopalakrishnan, forthe appellant.A.   V.	 Viswanatha  Sastri,  J. B.  Dadachanji	 and  S.  N.Andley, for respondent No. 4.1959.	February  18.  The judgment of Imam and	 Subba	Rao,JJ., was delivered by Subba Rao, J. Sarkar, J., delivered  aseparate judgment.SUBBA  RAO,  J.-This  appeal by Special	 Leave	against	 thejudgment of the High Court of Judicature at  Madras   raisesthe question of interpretation of S.	43A  of	 the   MotorVehicles Act, 1939 (IV of 1939), as	amended by the MotorVehicles  (Madras Amendment) Act, 1948 (Mad.  XX  of  1948),hereinafter  referred to as the Act.  On February 19,  1955,the Regional Transport Authority, Tanjore, Madras State, thesecond	respondent herein, called for applications under  s.57(2) of the Act for grant of a stage carriage permit on theSaliamangalam Kodavasal route.	The appellant and the fourthrespondent, K. M. Shanmugam, Proprietor, K. M. S. Transport,Ammapet,  Tanjore District, along with others,	applied	 forthe  grant  of	the said  permit.   The	 Regional  TransportAuthority230at  its	 meeting held on April 19, 1955, after	hearing	 therepresentations of the applicants, granted the permit to theappellant.   The fourth respondent and two others  preferredappeals	 against the said order to the Central Road  TrafficBoard,	Madras,	 the third respondent herein.	The  CentralRoad  Traffic, Board by its order dated June 25,  1955,	 setaside  the  order of the Regional  Transport  Authority	 andgranted the permit to the fourth respondent.  The  appellantpreferred  a  Revision Petition against that  order  to	 thefirst  respondent,  the	 State	of  Madras,  but  the  firstrespondent rejected the petition by its order dated  October14,  1955.  Thereafter, the appellant filed a Writ  Petition(No. 852 of 1955) in the High Court of Madras under Art. 226of the Constitution to quash the orders of the Central	RoadTraffic Board and the State of Madras.	Rajagopalan, J.,  ofthe said High Court by his order dated May 1, 1956,  quashedthe order of the Government and directed the State TransportAppellate  Tribunal which had been constituted in  place  ofthe  Central Road Traffic Board to dispose of the appeal  inaccordance  with law.  Against the judgment of	the  learnedJudge,	the fourth respondent preferred an appeal under	 theLetters	 Patent and the Appellate Bench of that High  Court,consisting  of	Rajamannar, C. J., and	Ramaswami,  J.,	 setaside  the order of RajagopaIan, J., and restored the  orderof  the	 Central  Road Traffic Board.	The  appellant	withspecial leave filed the present appeal against that judgmentof the High Court.Mr.  Pathak, appearing for the appellant, raised  before  usthe following two points: (i) The appeal filed by the fourthrespondent  against  the  order of  the	 Regional  TransportAuthority  to the Central Road Traffic Board was  barred  bylimitation and the Board acted illegally in disposing of theappeal without deciding the question of limitation; and (ii)the  appellant	had the fundamental right to  carry  on	 thebusiness  of  transport subject to  reasonable	restrictionsimposed by law as on the date he applied for a permit or  atany  rate when the Regional Transport Authority	 issued	 thepermit to him, and that the Central Road231Traffic Board committed an error, evident on the face of therecord,	 in disposing of the appeal in accordance  with	 thenew  restrictions  imposed by law made	pending	 the  appealbefore it.  Stated as a legal proposition, the contention isthat  the appellant had acquired a vested right to carry  onthe  business  of transport and that the same could  not  bedefeated by a subsequent law made pending the appeal,  whichwas only prospective in character.The  first  argument need  not detain us,  for	the  learnedCounsel, in view of the finding of the High Court that as  amatter of fact the appeal to the Central Road Traffic  Boardwas  not  barred, fairly did not press it before  us.	Thisleaves us with the second and the only argument in the case.To appreciate the contention it is necessary to set out somemore relevant facts: On March 28, 1953, the Government	madean order, G. O. Ms. No. 1037 Home, purporting to be under s.43A of the Act.	 The material part of that order reads:"  (1) That additional buses should not be permitted to	 plyon existing routes unless there is a clear need for increasein  the	 number of buses plying on a  particular  route	 andwasteful  competition  should  be  discouraged	but  healthycompetition where there is room should be encouraged and,(2)that	 the  transport	 authorities  while  granting  stagecarriage permits should work up to the minimum of 5  permitswith a spare bus for each operator and the issue of  permitsshould be so regulated as not to encourage benamidars on onehand and inefficient operators on the other."On November 15, 1954, in supersession of paragraph 2 of	 theabove order, the Government issued an order, G.	  O. Ms. No.3353 Home, to the following effect:"  The	Governor of Madras hereby directs that	each  viablestage carriage unit in this State shall consist of not	lessthan  10  buses	 and that in the matter of  grant  of  stagecarriage permits, other things being equal, and with a	viewto  build up such viable units, the following shall  be	 theorder of preference232(1)Operators with less than 10 buses but nearer the mark  of10.(2)  Operators with 10 and more buses.(3)  Others including new entrants.The Government also directs that in order to facilitate	 theamalgamation  of  existing  small units	 into  viable  unitstransfer of permits shall be allowed liberally."On June 15, 1955, the Government issued another order, G. O.Ms.  No. 1689 Home, whereby the Central Road  Traffic  Boardwas informed that pending further orders of Government afterre-examination of the question of formation of viable  unitsof stage carriages, the orders in para. (2) of G. O. Ms. No.1037  Home dated 28th March, 1953, would be in	force.	 Theeffect	of this order was that the first order was  restoredpending final orders.When  the Regional Transport Authority issued the permit  infavour of the appellant, G. O. Ms. No. 3353 Home dated	15thNovember,  1954,  was in force, and when  the  Central	RoadTraffic Board made the order giving the permit to the fourthrespondent,  G. O. Ms. No. 1689 Home dated 15th June,  1955,was  in	 operation.  Apart from	 other	considerations,	 theRegional Transport Authority relied upon the former G. O. inpreferring  the	 appellant to other  applicants,  while	 theCentral	 Road Traffic Board referred to G. O. Ms.  No.	1037Home dated 28th March, 1953, which was restored by the laterG. O. in preferring the fourth respondent to the  appellant.We shall give further details of the orders of the  RegionalTransport  Authority  and  the	Appellate  Tribunal  in	 thecontext	 of  another  argument, but, for  the  present,	 theaforesaid facts would suffice.It  would be convenient at this stage, before entering	intothe  controversial  question, to state briefly some  of	 thewell-established principles relevant to the question raised:(i) A citizen has a fundamental right to ply motor  vehicleson public pathways under Art. 19(1)(g) of the  Constitution,and  any  infringement	of that right by the  State  can  bejustified  only if it falls within the scope of	 Art.  19(6)thereof-See C. S. S.			    233Motor  Service,	 Tenkasi  v. The State, of  Madras  (1)	 andSaghir	Ahmad  v. The State of U. P. (2);  (ii)	 proceedingsbefore	tribunals issuing permits are of  quasi-judicial  incharacter-See  C. S. S. Motor Service, Tenkasi v. The  Stateof  Madras  (1) and New Prakash Transport Co.  Ltd.  v.	 NewSuwarna Transport Co. Ltd. (3) ; (iii) a new law which takesaway  or impairs vested rights acquired under existing	lawsmust  be  deemed to be intended not  to	 have  retrospectiveoperation, unless such law makes it retrospective  expresslyor  by	implication-See	 Maxwell on  the  Interpretation  ofStatutes,   p.	215;  Garikapatti  Veeraya  v.	N.   SubbiahChowdhury (4 ) and Seth Gulab Chand v. Kudilal (5); and (iv)the  same principle applies to a law made pending an  appealbefore an appellate Court-See P. M. Seshadri v. Province  ofMadras	(6).  So much is not, and cannot, de  disputed.	  Weshall  assume that the said principles apply to a  law	madepending	 an  appeal  against an order  of  a  quasi-judicialtribunal.   The	 main  controversy centres  round  the	factwhether	 the  orders made and the directions issued  by	 theState Government under s. 43A of the Act are " laws " as  toattract	 the operation of the aforesaid	 principles.   WhileMr. Pathak says that the said directions are as much laws asthose  of  the	provisions  of	a  statute  or	rules	madethereunder,  Mr. A. Viswanatha Sastri contends that,  havingregard	to  the	 scheme of the Motor Vehicles  Act  and	 thedifferent  sections of the Act vesting powers in  the  StateGovernment  with regard to different matters dealt  with  bythe  Act, the power conferred on the State Government  unders.  43A	 is a power to make orders or  issue  directions  inrespect	   of	administrative	 matters   regulating	 therelationship between the State Government and the  TransportAuthorities and that such orders do not affect the  legalityor  the validity of judicial acts of the  said	authorities.To  appreciate	the rival contentions, it  is  necessary  toconsider the relevant provisions of the Act.     (1) I.L.R. 1953 Mad. 304, 330, 334.(2) [1955] 1  S.C.R.707, 719.     (3) [1957] S.C.R. 98, 118.(4) [1957] S.C.R. 488, 515.     (5) [1959] S.C.R. 313, 322.(6) A.I.R 1954 Mad. 543.30234The Act, which is a Central Act, was passed in the year 1939and  subsequently it was amended from time to time  both  byParliament  and	 also by the local legislatures.   The	mainobject of the Act is to regulate the motor traffic in  everyState in the interest of the Vs public.	 Chapter 11 containsprovisions  relating  to  licensing  of	 drivers  of   motorvehicles.   Chapter III prescribes for the  registration  ofmotor  vehicles.   Chapter IV provides for  the	 control  oftransport  vehicles.   Chapter	V  lays	 down  the   generalprovisions regarding construction, equipment and maintenanceof  motor  vehicles.  Chapter VI regulates  the	 control  oftraffic.   Chapter  VIII deals with the insurance  of  motorvehicles against third party risks.  Chapter IX defines	 theoffences,  lays	 down  the  penalties  and  prescribes	 theprocedure  for detecting offences and  enforcing  penalties.Chapter	 X deals with miscellaneous matters.  Every  Chaptercontains  a  specific provision conferring a  power  on	 theState  Government to make rules for the purpose of  carryinginto  effect the provisions of that Chapter.  To  carry	 outthe  objects of the Act, the State Government is  authorizedto  create  a  hierarchy  of  officers	such  as  the  StateTransport  Authority, the Regional Transport Authority,	 theRegistering Authority, etc.  Such Authorities are  entrustedwith  administrative  as well as  quasi-judicial  functions.Chapter IV with which we are now concerned follows the	samepattern.   Its	general heading is "  Control  of  TransportVehicles  ".  Section 42 prohibits the owners  of  transportvehicles  from	using  them  in	 any  public  place  withoutpermits.   Section  43	empowers  the  State  Government  tocontrol	 road  transport.   Section  44	 enables  the  StateGovernment  to constitute Transport Authorities to  exerciseand discharge the specified powers and functions.  Under  s.44(4)  the State Transport Authority is authorized to  issuedirections  to	any  Regional Transport	 Authority  and	 thelatter shall be guided by such directions.  Sections 46, 47,48,  57,  60  and 64 prescribe the procedure  for  issue  ofpermits and also create a hierarchy of Tribunals for hearingof applications and disposal of appeals.  The said procedureis clearly quasi-judicial in character and has			    235been held to be so by this Court.  Sections 67 and 68 confera  power on the State Government to make rules	to  regulatethe operation of transport carriages and also to make  rulesfor  the purpose of carrying into effect the  provisions  ofthis Chapter.Under	the   aforesaid	 provisions  and  the	rules	madethereunder,  the  State	 Transport  Authority  is  made	 theadministrative	head of all the other Transport	 Authoritiesfunctioning in the State, and the Central Road Traffic Boardthe  appellate	authority  in  the  hierarchy  of  Tribunalsconstituted  under the Act.  As the administrative head	 theState  Transport Authority is authorized under s.  44(4)  ofthe  Act  to  issue directions	to  any	 Regional  TransportAuthority,  who shall be guided by such directions.   As  anappellate  tribunal  the  Central  Road	 Traffic  Board	  isempowered  to dispose of the appeals preferred	against	 theorders made by the subordinate authorities under the Act  inrespect	 of specified matters.	But the Central Act did	 notmake any provision enabling the State Governments to controleither the quasi-judicial or the administrative wings of themachinery provided under the Act.  While the State TransportAuthority   could  issue  directions  to   other   TransportAuthorities  constituted under the Act, a  State  Governmentcould not likewise issue any directions either to the  StateTransport  Authority or to its subordinate authorities.	  Sotoo,  while  the  Central Road Traffic Board  could  in	 itsappellate jurisdiction set aside or modify the orders of thesubordinate  tribunals,	 the State Government was not  in  aposition  to set aside the improper orders of the  tribunalsunder  the  Act.  Presumably, therefore, to bring  the	saidauthorities under its control, both on the judicial and	 theadministrative wings, Motor Vehicles (Madras Amendment) Act,1948  ((Mad.  XX of 1948), was passed and it became  law  onDecember 21, 1948.  Among other amendments, ss. 43A and	 64Awere inserted in the Act.  Section 43A reads:" The State Government may issue such orders and  directionsof  a  general character as it may consider  necessary,,  inrespect	 of  any matter relating to road transport,  to	 theState Transport Authority or236a Regional Transport Authority; and such Transport Authorityshall give effect to all such orders and directions."Section 64A is to the following effect:"  The	State  Government  may, on  its	 own  motion  or  onapplication  made to it, call for the records of  any  orderpassed	or  proceeding	taken  under  this  Chapter  by	 anyauthority  or officer subordinate to it, for the purpose  ofsatisfying   itself  as	 to  the  legality,  regularity	  orpropriety  of such order or proceeding and  after  examiningsuch  records, may pass such orders in reference thereto  asit thinks fit."So far as s. 64A is concerned, in express terms it confers ajudicial power on the State Government to keep a subordinatejudicial  tribunal within bounds.  Section 64A,	 along	withss. 45 to 57, 60 and 64, forms a complete code in respect ofthe  quasi-judicial disposals of the issue of permits.	 Thepermits	 should be issued in accordance with the  provisionsof  the	 Act and the rules framed thereunder  following	 thejudicial procedure.  The words used in s. 43A are very wide.It  says  that	the State Government may  issue	 orders	 anddirections of a general character in respect of any  mattersrelating  to road transport.  Divorced from the context	 andthe  setting  in  which	 the new  section  appears,  it	 maycomprehend  any orders or directions of a general  characterin respect of road transport; and, if so construed, it wouldnot  only subvert the other provisions of the Act  but	alsowould	be   vulnerable	  to  attack  on   the	 ground	  ofconstitutional invalidity.  It would entrust the  Governmentwith a naked arbitrary power capable of being used to compelquasi-judicial tribunals to dispose of cases in a particularway;  it would enable them to couch the order in  a  generalway to induce a tribunal to come to a particular decision ina  given  case; and it would be destructive  of	 the  entirejudicial procedure envisaged by the Act and the rules framedthereunder in the matter of disposal of specified questions.It  would be attributing to the legislature an	incongruity,for  the State Government could issue directions in  respectof  which  it  could  make  rules  ignoring  the  safeguardsprovided in the			    237making of the rules.  Section 133 lays down that every powerto  make rules given by the Act is subject to the  conditionof the rules being made after previous publication.  It alsoenjoins	 on the Central and the State Governments  to  placethe  said rules for not less than fourteen days	 before	 theappropriate  legislature  and  the rules so  made  shall  besubject to such modification as the legislature may make  insuch session in which they are so laid.	 All these  salutaryprecautions can be ignored if the directions given under  s.43A  are  given the status of law; on the other hand,  if  arestrictive meaning is given as it should be in the context,there  would be a happy correlation of the functions of	 thevarious bodies under the Act, including the Government.	 TheGovernment's  legislative power is recognised under  ss.  67and 68 of the Act; its judicial power is maintained under s.64A  and its administrative power is affirmed under s.	43A.Chapter	 IV  and the rules made thereunder  confer  adminis-trative powers on the Regional Transport Authorities and theState  Transport Authority.  Section 43A enables  the  StateGovernment to make orders and issue directions of a  generalcharacter  in  respect of those functions to  implement	 theprovisions of the Act and the rules made thereunder; and thesaid  authorities shall give effect to all such	 orders	 anddirections.The context in which and the setting wherein the section  isinserted also lend support to the said conclusion.   Section42  describes  the necessity for permits and s.	 43  confersspecific powers on the Government to control road transport.Section	 43A  coming  thereafter  and  before  the  sectionsconferring quasi-judicial powers on tribunals is  indicativeof the fact that the jurisdiction conferred under s. 43A  isconfined  to administrative functions of the Government	 andthe tribunals rather than to their judicial functions;	for,if the section was intended to confer legislative power,  itshould	have found its place after s. 64A or somewhere	nearthe end of the Chapter.	 Though it is not a conclusive test,the placing of the provisions of ss. 43A and 64A, which wereinserted  by the same Amending Act is also a pointer to	 theintention of the238legislature,  namely,  that s. 43A was	intended  to  governadministrative functions of the tribunals.The  terms of the section and the manner of  issuing  ordersand directions thereunder also support the same	 conclusion.The legislature used two words in the section: (i) order and(ii) directions.  Whenever it intended to affect the  rightsof parties, it used the word " rules ", but in this  sectionit  designedly used the words appropriate to the control  ofadministrative machinery.  The words " directions and  order"  are defined in one of the Law Lexicons thus: "  Directioncontains most of instruction in it; order most of authority.Directions  should  be	followed;  orders  obeyed.   It	  isnecessary  to  direct  those  who  are	unable	to  act	 forthemselves; it is necessary to order those whose business itis  to execute the orders.  " The said meaning of the  wordsis more appropriate to administrative control rather than torules  of  law affecting rights of  parties.   Further,	 thedeclaration   in  the  section	that  the  orders  and	 thedirections  under  the	section	 shall	be  binding  on	 theauthorities  concerned is indicative of the fact  that	theyare  not laws, for if they are laws, no such declaration  isnecessary.   What is more, they need not even  be  publishedand  may,  if the Government so desires, take  the  form  ofsecret	communication to the authorities concerned.  Nor  isthere any basis for the argument that as the directions	 areissued	under  a  statutory power, they are "  laws  ".	 Thesource	of  the power does not affect the character  of	 thethings done in exercise of that power.	Whether it is a	 lawor an administrative direction depends upon the character ornature	of the orders or directions authorized to be  issuedin  exercise  of  the  power  conferred.   That	 should	  bedetermined  on	other  considerations  adverted	 to  by	  usalready.   Our	view is in accord with that expressed  by  aDivision  Bench of the Madras High Court in C. S.  S.  MotorService,  Tenkasi  v. The State of Madras  (1).	  There	 theconstitutional	validity of ss. 42, 43A, 47, 48 and  64A  ofthe Act was questioned.	 In dealing with s. 43A, VenkataramaAyyar, J., who delivered the judgment of the Court, observedat p. 335 thus(1)  I.L.R. 1953 Mad. 304, 330, 334.239"Coming next to section 43A, it is argued that it confers onthe Provincial Government wide and unlimited powers to issueall  such  orders and directions of a general  character  asthey may consider necessary, that the transport	 authoritiesare  bound under that section to give effect to such  ordersand  directions,  that	there  is  nothing  to	prevent	 theGovernment  from even issuing directions with  reference  tothe judicial functions which those authorities have to	dis-charge	under  the Act, that it could not be  expected	thatsuch  directions would be disregarded by  those	 authoritiesand  that in practice the provisions of section 47 could  beevaded.	  Reference  is	 also made to  the  fact  that	thissection	 was  introduced for nullifying the  effect  of	 thedecision in Sri Rama Vilas Service Ltd. v. The Road  TrafficBoard,	Madras	(1)  where it was held	that  the  transportauthorities  had failed in the discharge of  their  judicialfunction  in  meekly  giving  effect  to  an  order  of	 theGovernment  which was opposed to the provisions of the	Act.Section 43-A appears to be intended to clothe the Governmentwith  authority	 to issue directions  of  an  administrativecharacter  and in that view it would be valid.	No  specificorder  or direction of the Government is attacked  in  theseproceedings  as	 invalid  and  the  discussion	is   largelyacademic.   The	 section  must itself be held  to  be  validthough particular orders passed thereunder might be open  tochallenge as unconstitutional."From  the  aforesaid observations, it is manifest  that	 thelearned Judge construed s. 43A as conferring a power on	 theState  Government to issue directions of  an  administrativecharacter.   If the construction was otherwise, the  learnedJudge would have held that the section was  constitutionallybad  as he had held in regard to other sections.   The	HighCourt of Andhra Pradesh in Gopalakrishna Motor Transport Co.Ltd.  v.  Secretary, Regional Transport	 Authority,  KrishnaDistrict,  Vijayawada (2) had also considered the  scope  ofthe  provisions	 of  s. 43A.  There,  the  State  Governmentissued	an  order under s. 43A of the  Act  prescribing	 themanner of checking a bus for over-(1) (1948) 1 M.L.J. 85.(2) A.I.R. 1957 A.P. 882.loading.   The procedure prescribed was not followed by	 theRegional Transport Authority, which was empowered to suspendthe  permit on the ground of overloading under s. 60 of	 theAct.   One  of	the  contentions  raised  was  that  as	 themandatory direction given by s the State Government under s.43A  was not followed, the Regional Transport  Authority  inexercising  its	 powers under s. 60 should  have  held	thatthere was no over-loading.  In rejecting this plea, the HighCourt observed at p. 885 thus:"  Government  has power to frame rules and  also  to  issueadministrative	directions  of	a  general  character  underSection 43-A of the Act.............. In so far as the orderwas  couched  in mandatory terms, it is incumbent  upon	 theofficers concerned to comply with it.Any instruction given under Section 43-A cannot override thediscretionary  power conferred upon the Transport  Authorityunder section 60........ We, therefore, hold that the  orderof the Government contained only administrative instructionsissued	under  Section 43-A.  It is true that some  of	the,administrative	instructions impose a mandatory duty on	 theofficers concerned and if they do not discharge their  duty,Government may take disciplinary action against them.	But,in  our	 view, non-compliance with those  directions  cannotaffect	the  finding  the  Authority  arrived  at  on  othermaterial on the question of over-loading."In  the present case, the learned Chief Justice, who  was  aparty to the decision in C. S. S. Motor Service v. The Stateof  Madras  (1), presumably on the basis  of  that  judgmentobserved thus:" In our opinion, these Government orders, which are in	 thenature of general administrative directions to the transportauthorities, do not vest any rights, indefeasible  rights-inany applicant for a stage carriage permit ".The result of the discussion may be summarised thus:   Theappellant had a fundamental right to carry(1) I.L.R. 1953 Mad, 3f30, 334.241on  his	 motor	transport  business  subject  to  reasonablerestrictions  imposed upon that right by law.  Some  of	 theprovisions  of	Chapter	 IV of the  Act	 contain  reasonablerestrictions  on the said right.  He was given a  permit  onthe  basis of the law imposing the said restrictions on	 hisright.	 The orders made and the directions issued under  s.43A  could  cover  only	 the  administrative  field  of	 theofficers  concerned  and  therefore  any  direction   issuedthereunder was not law regulating the rights of the parties.The order made and the directions issued under s. 43A of theAct  cannot obviously add to the  considerations  prescribedunder s. 47 on the basis of which the tribunal is  empoweredto  issue or refuse permit, as the case may be.	 There	was,therefore, no change in the law pending the appeal so as  toaffect	the  appellant's  vested right	in  this  view,	 theappellant  cannot question the validity of the order of	 theCentral Road Traffic Board on the ground that it decided theappeal on a law that was made subsequent to the issue of thepermit to him.The same result could be arrived at by different process  ofreasoning.   The appellant had a fundamental right to  carryon  the	 business of motor transport subject  to  reasonablerestrictions  imposed  by  law	under  Art.  19(6)  of	 theConstitution.	The Act imposed reasonable restrictions	 oilthe  said  right.  One such restriction was that  the  StateGovernment may issue such orders and directions of a generalcharacter  as it' may consider necessary in respect  of	 anymatter	relating  to road transport to the  State  TransportAuthority.  When the appellant applied for a permit, be mustbe  deemed  to have bad the knowledge of the fact  that	 hisapplication  would  be disposed of by  the  State  TransportAuthority  in  accordance with orders and  directions  of  ageneral	 character  issued, by the  State  Government.	 Thedirections were not now law that came into existence pendingthe  appeal,  but  only	 issued under  a  law  that  was  inexistence even at the time he applied for a permit.  The lawwas  that  embodied in s. 43A of the Act, namely,  that	 theGovernment could issue directions binding on the authorities31242concerned  and	that  law was a	 pre-existing  one  and	 theapplication  had to be disposed of subject to that law	tillit  was	 finally  terminated  by an  order  of	the  highesttribunal  in the hierarchy.  In this view also there are  nomerits in the appellant's contention.Now coming to the merits of the case, the contentions of theparties	 may  be stated thus: The learned  Counsel  for	 therespondents  contends that there is no	material  differencebetween G. O. Ms. No. 1037 and G. O. Ms. No. 3353, except inregard	to one circumstance, which is not material  for	 thepresent	 purpose:  while in the former G. O.,  the  argumentproceeds, the transport authority is directed to work up  toa  minimum of five units with a spare bus, under the  latterG. O., the viable unit fixed is not less than ten buses	 andthe  authority	concerned  is directed to work	up  to	thatlimit.	 It is pointed out that the only difference,  is  inthe   measure  of  a  viable  unit  and	 that	the   fourthrespondent's  case falls squarely within the first  categoryin the order of preference prescribed in G. O. Ms. No.	3353of  1954.   The learned Counsel for the	 appellant  contendsthat  the order of preference is based upon the	 achievementof  the object, namely, building up of viable units  of	 tenpermits	 and  that the appellant admittedly  had  only	fourpermits	 and,  therefore, far below the viable unit  and  hecould  not be given preference in a competition between	 himand  the appellant, who had more than thirty  permits.	 Theproblem presented can only be solved by a reasonable  inter-pretation  of the plain words used in G. O. Ms. No. 3353  of1954  read  along  with the expressed object  sought  to  beachieved  thereby.  It will be convenient at this  stage  toread the said order omitting the unnecessary words:G.   O. Ms. No. 3353 Home dated 15th November, 1954."   The	  Planning  Commission	has   made   the   followingrecommendation in respect of Road Transport service :'It  is desirable for the existing private operators'  unitsto  amalgamate, wherever possible, into big viable units  toenable	them to achieve better returns and  maintain  betterstandards of operation243The  Government considered that it will be in the  interestsof  the public if road transport services are  conducted  byoperators having at least toil stage carriages and they havetherefore decided that each viable unit should consist of atleast ten stage carriages.In  exercise of the powers conferred by Section 43-A of	 theMotor  Vehicles Act, 1939 (Central Act IV of 1939),  and  insupersession of the orders issued in paragraph (ii) of G. O.Ms. 1037, Home dated 28th March 1953, the Governor of Madrashereby directs that each viable stage carriage unit in	thisState  shall consist of not less than 10 buses and  that  inthe matter of grant of stage carriage permits, other things-being  equal, and that with a view to build up	such  viableunits, the following shall be the order of preference1.   Operators with less than 10 buses, but nearer the	markof ten.2.   Operators with 10 and more buses.3.   Others including new entrants.The  Governor also directs that in order to  facilitate	 theamalgamation  of  existing  small units	 into  viable  unitstransfer of permits shall be allowed liberally."The G. O., Was issued to achieve the object of inducing	 theoperators  to amalgamate wherever possible, into big  viableunits to enable them to achieved better returns and maintainbetter standards of operation.	The Government decided	thata  unit of at least ten buses would be necessary to  achievethat  object.	To implement that policy, it  directed	thateach  viable stage carriage unit should consist of not	lessthan  ten  buses  and with a view to build  up	such  viableunits, it directed that, other things being equal, the orderof  preference	contained therein should be  followed.	 Theorder  of  preference contained three  categories,  one	 ex-cluding	 the other.  They did not provide for any  rules  ofpreference  inter se of operators coming within each one  ofthe categories.	 Presumably, that was left to be decided  bythe   transport	  authorities,	 having	  regard   to	 theconsiderations mentioned in s. 47.  The argument244of  the learned Counsel for the fourth respondent  is  basedupon the first category, which reads:"  Operators with less than 10 buses but nearer the mark  of10  ". He contends that, having regard to the object of	 theG.  O., namely, to build up a viable stage carriage unit  often,  in  the absence of an operator  with  stage  carriagesnearer to the mark of ten than the fourth respondent, he  isentitled to a permit in preference to the appellant providedother  things  are equal between them.	In respect  of	thisargument, emphasis is laid upon the word "nearer " and it issaid  that  the	 said word indicates a	rule  of  preferencebetween operators coming within that category, namely,	thatan  operator like the fourth respondent is to be  preferred,if there is no other operator nearer than him to the mark often.   This argument is attractive, but, in our view, it  isinconsistent with the scheme of the order.  It is true	thatthe phraseology of category (1) has not been happily  wordedand perhaps grammatically not correct.	But the intention isfairly	obvious.   For one thing the rule of  preference  isbased upon the achievement of the object, i.e., the buildingup of a viable unit of ten permits, for the other, the	ruleof  preference	is  only  to  govern  the  three  categoriesmentioned therein and not inter se between those falling  ineach category.	The word " others " in category (3)  becomesmeaningless, if operators far below the mark of ten  permitsfall  within  the  first  category.   The  more	  reasonableinterpretation	and that is in accord with the intention  ofthe State Government is that other things being equal, in  acompetition  between  the  three  categories  of   operatorsmentioned  in  the order, operators nearer the mark  of	 tenshall  be preferred.  In the absence of any  such  operator,operators with ten or more buses should be given the  secondpreference.   In the absence of such operators,	 others,  i.e.,  operators	who are not nearer the mark of ten  and	 newentrants,   will  have	to  be	preferred.   This  rule	  ofpreference  was not expected to cause any injustice  as	 therestriction  on the transfer of permits was removed and	 thesmall  operators were permitted to amalgamate  the  existingunits into viable units.			    245This  policy  did  not achieve	the  expected  results,	 butencouraged  monopolies; with the result that the  Governmenthad  to cancel the order of June 15,1955, within  about	 sixmonths from the making of it; but that circumstance does notaffect the construction of the clause.	We, therefore,	holdthat  on a strict inter pretation of the G. O. Ms. No.	3353of 1954, the fourth respondent would not have been  entitledto the permit.But as we have held that the said order was not law but	 wasonly  an administrative direction, it could not	 affect	 thevalidity of the order of the Central Road Traffic Board,  ifit  made the order, having regard to the consideration	laiddown  in s. 47 of the Act.  The main consideration under  s.47  of	the  Act is that the  Regional	Transport  Authorityshall, in deciding whether to grant or refuse such  carriagepermit, have regard to the interest of the public generally.The Central Road Traffic Board, after having found that	 theappellant had other advantages such as he operated a  three-route  permit  touching	 the route under  appeal,  that	 hisrecord	was  satisfactory and that he was  not	inefficient,came  to  the conclusion that by giving the  permit  to	 thefourth respondent, it would be encouraging not only  healthycompetition  but also would be enabling him to work  out  tothe  minimum of five permits.  It is true that if  the	1954order should govern the selection, the main reason given  bythe  Board would be wrong.  Whether a small unit or a  largeunit  would  be viable or would be in the  interest  of	 thepublic	is  always a debatable point and it is	possible  totake  conflicting views on the question.  One view  is	thatail  operator  who  is described as  fleet-owner  will	haveconsiderable  experience  in the business and will be  in  aposition to keep a workshop and additional buses to meet anyemergency and therefore he would be in a better position  tooperate the service without break and keep up the timings inthe  interest of the public than a stray bus operator.	 Thealternative view is that encouragement of large viable unitswill tend -to monopoly and the freedom from competition willbring  about deterioration in service.	Oil the other  hand,new entrants and operators246Owning	a  few	buses  will  incentive	to  bestow   greaterattention to tile public needs, particularly in view of	 thecompetition from others in the same field.  That both  viewsare  possible  is  evident  from the  fact  that  the  StateGovernment  has	 been  changing its views so  often  on	 thesubject;  and indeed the cancellation of G. O. Ms. No.	3353of  1954,  within  six months from the date  of	 its  issue,presumably on the basis of the experience gained during thatperiod,	 is a clear indication that in the opinion  of	the,Government,  encouragement  of large units was	not  in	 theinterest of public.  If that be so, one cannot say that	 theCentral	 Road Traffic Board acted without jurisdiction	whenit accepted the view that the smaller units would be more inthe  interest of the public rather than larger units  ;	 northe  fact  that	 it  accepted the  prevailing  view  of	 theGovernment  on	the subject would make it any  the  less  anorder  within its jurisdiction, provided the said  view	 wasgermane to one or other matters stated in s. 47 of the	Act.As  pointed out by us, both the views are possible  and	 theBoard was well within its rights in holding that the  publicinterest  would	 be served if the permit was  given  to	 thefourth respondent, in the circumstances of the case.In  this view, no other question arises	 for  consideration.The order of the Madras High Court is correct and the appealis dismissed with costs.SARKAR,	 J.--The appellant before us is a company  operatingpublic	motor  bus  services in the State  of  Madras.	 Itsgrievance  is that it has been wrongly refused a  permit  torun a bus.Motor  bus  services transporting passengers on	 the  publichighways for consideration, called stage carriage  services,are  controlled by ss. 42 to 68 contained in Chapter  IV  ofthe  Motor  Vehicles Act, 1939.	 The Act  provides  that  novehicle	 can be used as a stage carriage save in  accordancewith a permit granted by a regional Transport Authority	 setup by the State Government.  Section 47 of the Act lays downcertain	 matters  to which a  Regional	Transport  Authorityshall have regard in deciding whether to grant or refuse a			    247stage  carriage permit, one of which is the interest of	 thepublic	generally.   Section 68 of the	Act  authorises	 theState  Government to make rules for the purpose of  carryinginto effect the provisions of Chapter IV.  The rules  framedunder  this  section do not contain anything  to  guide	 theRegional  Transport Authority in the matter of granting	 thepermits	 save  that r. 150 provides that it " shall  in	 allmatters be subject to the orders of the Government and shallgive  effect to all orders passed by the Government  whetheron  appeal or otherwise." Section 43- A of the	Act  howevergives  the  State  Government  power  to  issue	 orders	 anddirections  to the Regional Transport Authority.  That	sec-tion is in these terms" The State Government may issue such orders and  directionsof  a  general character as it may  consider  necessary,  inrespect	 of  any matter relating to road transport,  to	 theState Transport Authority or a Regional Transport Authority;and  such Transport Authority shall give effect to all	suchorders and directions."We  are not concerned with the State Transport Authority  inthis  case.   The  Act	is a Central Act  and  s.  43-A	 wasintroduced  into it by an amendment made by the	 legislatureof  the Province of Madras.  The Government of	Madras	fromtime  to  time issued orders under  this  section  providingcertain	 considerations	 for the guidance  of  the  RegionalTransport Authorities in deciding applications for the	rantof permits for stage carriages.	 The appellant's  contentionis  that  the permit was refused to it by  applying  one  ofthese orders which was not applicable to its case.   Section64  of the Act permits an appeal to an	appellate  authorityfrom an order of a Regional Transport Authority refusing  togrant  a permit.  This appellate authority in the  State  ofMadras	is called the Central Road Traffic  Board.   Section64-  A	which  again  was introduced  into  the	 Act  by  anamendment  of  the legislature of the  Province	 of  Madras,empowers the Government to look into the records of any caseconcerning  the grant of a permit and pass such order as  itthought fit.Now as to the facts of this case, on March 28, 1953,248the  Government issued an order tinder s. 43-A marked G.  O.Ms.  No.  1037	laying down  certain  considerations  to  beobserved  in  granting permits.	 On November 15,  1954,	 theGovernment issued another order marked G.    O. Ms. No. 3353superseding the second of     G.   O.  Ms.  No.	  1037	 andsubstituting fresh provisions in   its	place.	As I do	 notconsider it necessary to discuss the terms of these  orders,it will tend to clarity to proceed on the basis as if G.  O.Ms. No. 3353 superseded G. O. Ms. No. 1037 wholly.The appellant, the respondent No. 4 and eight other  personshad   applied  for  the	 permit	 for  a	 route	 for   whichapplications had been invited.	It does not appear from	 therecord when these applications had been made, but it appearsthat  on  April 9, 1955, the  Regional	Transport  Authorityafter  hearing	all  the competing  applicants	granted	 thepermit	to the appellant applying G. O. Ms. No.	 3353,	thisbeing the order then in force.	Soon thereafter, namely,  onMay 20, 1955, the Government passed under the same section afresh order being ('J. O. Ms. No. 1403 cancelling G. O.	 Ms.No. 3353 and on June 15, 1955, it passed another order beingG.  O. Ms. No. 1689 which, for the purpose of this  case  itmay be said, had the effect of restoring G.  O.	  Ms.	 No.1037.On or about June 23, 1955, the respondent No. 4, who will bereferred  to as the respondent as he is the only  contestingrespondent, preferred an appeal to the Central Road  TrafficBoard  against	the  decision  of  the	Regional   TransportAuthority.   It may be that some of the	 other	disappointedapplicants for the permit also preferred similar appeals butwith  them we are not concerned.  The Board  considered	 therepresentations	 of  all the parties before it and  made  anorder  on June 25, 1955, setting aside the decision  of	 theRegional Transport Authority and granting the permit to	 therespondent.   According	 to the appellant,  in	making	thisorder the Board followed G. O. Ms. No. 1037.  The  complaintof the appellant is that the Board went wrong in doing so asG.  O.	Ms. No. 1037 was not in force when  the	 appellant'sapplication   was  considered  by  the	Regional   TransportAuthority but had beenbrought	 into force subsequently, and as the Board was	onlyhearing	 an appeal from the Regional Transport Authority  itwas bound to decide the case according to the order in forcewhen the Regional Transport Authority made its decision	 andwas  not entitled to decide it according to an	order  whichcame  into existence subsequently.  The appellant  took	 thematter up to the Government under s. 64-A of the Act but theGovernment refused to interfere.The appellant then moved the High Court at Madras for a writof certiorari quashing the orders of the Board granting	 thepermit	to the respondent and of the Government refusing  tointerfere.   Rajagopalan,  J., who  heard  the	application,thought	 that  the  Government had failed  to  exercise	 itsjurisdiction  by  not  deciding a point	 raised	 before	 it,namely, whether the appeal to the Board had been made withinthe prescribed time.  He, therefore, set aside the order  ofthe Government and sent the case back for reconsideration.The  respondent	 went  up  in  appeal  from  the  order	  ofRajagopalan, J. The appeal was heard by a bench of the	sameHigh  Court consisting of Rajamannar, C. J., and  Ramaswami,J.,  and  was  allowed.	  The  learned	Chief  Justice	 whodelivered the judgment of the court, held that	Rajagopalan,J., was not right in thinking that the Government had failedto decide whether the appeal to the Board had been filed  bythe respondent within the prescribed time.  He rejected	 thecontention of the appellant that the order of the Board	 wasliable to be set aside inasmuch as it had been made pursuantto G. O. Ms. No. 1037 which was not the order in force	whenthe  Regional  Transport  Authority heard  the	matter.	  Heobserved, " these Government orders, which are in the natureof  general  administrative  directions	 to  the   transportauthorities, do not vest any rights, indefeasible  rights-inany applicant for a stage carriage permit ". He also held, "It  cannot be said that because on the date of the  disposalof  the	 application by the Regional Transport	Authority  aparticular G. O. was in force, any one had a vested32250right  conferred on him by that G. O. We think	that it	 waspermissible  to	 the Central Road Traffic  Board  to  decidebetween	 the claimants on -the basis of the  G.O. which	 wasin  force  at  the time the appeal  was	 being	heard."	 Theappellant  has	now come to this Court by special  leave  inappeal against this judgment.Only  one point has been argued by Mr. Pathak  appearing  insupport of the appeal.	He said that the Board was a  quasi-judicial  tribunal  and	 an order made by  it  is  thereforeliable	to be quashed by a writ of certiorari if that  orderdiscloses an error apparent on the face of it.	He then saidthat the order of the Board of June 25, 1955, was  erroneousin law as it decided the case by the terms of G. O. Ms.	 No.1037,  which  was brought into force after the date  of	 thedecision  of  the Regional Transport Authority and  bad	 notbeen  given a retrospective operation, and the	Board  whichwas hearing an appeal from the Regional Transport Authority,could  only decide whether that Authority had gone wrong  inthe  application of the provisions in force at the  time  ofthe  hearing before it, namely, the provisions contained  inG.  O.	Ms.  No. 3353.	He also said  that  such  error	 wasapparent  on  the  face of the record as the  Board  in	 itsdecision  stated that it was deciding the case by G. O.	 Ms.No. 1037.It has not been contended before us that the Board is not  aquasi-judicial Tribunal.  It clearly is so.  In view of	 themany decisions of this Court in similar matters it would  beimpossible  to	take a contrary view.  Then again  it  is  aprinciple firmly established and accepted by this Court thata  writ	 of  certiorari can issue where the  decision  of  atribunal discloses an error of law apparent on its face.   Iam  also  clear in my mind that if it was an error  for	 theBoard  to  have	 followed G. O. Ms.  No.  1037,	 such  errorappeared  on  the  face of its decisions  for  it  expresslypurported  to  be guided by G. O. Ms. No.  1037.   The	onlyquestions  that remain are whether this was an error and  anapparent error.	 These I now proceed to discuss.It is true that G. O. Ms. No. 1037 which had been251superseded  by G. O. Ms. No. 3353 on November 15, 1954,	 wasrevived by G. O. Ms. No. 1689 issued on June 15, 1955, i.e.,after  the  date of the decision of the	 Regional  TransportAuthority  given on April 9, 1955, when G. O. Ms.  No.	3353prevailed.   I will assume now that G. O. Ms. No.  1689	 didnot bring back G. O. Ms. No. 1037 with retrospective  force.Was the Board then wrong in a plying G. O. Ms. No. 1037 whenit   decided   the  appeal  from  the	Regional   TransportAuthority's decision ? I do not think so.It may be that when one regular and ordinary court bears  anappeal	from the decision of another such court, it  cannot,generally speaking, take into consideration a law which	 hasbeen  passed since that decision.  But it is far from  clearthat the same rule applies when an appeal from the order  ofa quasi-judicial tribunal is heard by another such tribunal,as  is	the  case  here.  No authority	to  warrant  such  aproposition  was cited and as at present advised, I  am	 notprepared  to  assent to it.  In any case, it can  safely  besaid,  and it is enough for the purpose of this case  to  doso, that it is far from clear that a quasi-judicial tribunallike  the  one before us is not entitled in  hearing  appealfrom  another such tribunal to apply a rule which  has	comeinto  existence since the decision under appeal.  If  it  isnot  so	 clear there of course is no error apparent  on	 theface of the record.It  cannot  be	overlooked  that  such	a  tribunal  is	 notenforcing a vested right which one party has against anotheror others.  The tribunal is to choose from amongst a  numberof  persons  the  fittest  to  be  granted  a  permit.	 Theoverriding interest in the selection is of one who is not  aparty  to  the proceedings, namely, the	 travelling  public.The  lower  tribunal is entitled to be heard  on  an  appealunder  s.  64, a procedure which is wholly  inapplicable  inappeals from the decisions of what are called courts of law.As a general rule, a court gives effect at the trial to	 thesubstantive  rights of the parties existing at the  date  ofthe writ and it is for this reason that a change in the	 lawcannot	ordinarily  be taken into account in  appeals.	 Nowsuch a consideration does not prevail in the252present case.  It is not said that a person when he makes anapplication  for  a  permit acquires a	right  to  have	 hisapplication  decided by the order under the section then  inforce.	 All  that is said is that the	Transport  Authoritymust  consider	the applications according to the  order  inforce at the time it hears them.  If this is so, as I  thinkit  is,	 then  the  basis  for	saying	that  the  appellateauthority  cannot consider a Government order  issued  sincethe  order  under appeal was  made,  completely	 disappears.Another	 reason	 given for the view that a court  of  appealcannot take into consideration a new law is that, " a matterof substantive right which has become res judicata cannot beupset  by a subsequent general change of the law": see Re  aDebtor,	 Exparte  Debtor (1).  Now it does not	seem  to  mepossible  to  say  that	 an applicant for  a  permit  has  asubstantive  right to the permit vested in him.	 Nor  is  itpossible to conceive of the decision of a Regional TransportAuthority  in  granting	 or refusing to grant  a  permit  ashaving any operation by way  of res judicata.  It  thereforeseems  to  me  that there is no	 warrant  for  applying	 thegeneral rule applicable to a court of law hearing an  appealfrom  a	 similar subordinate court which  prevents  it	fromtaking notice of a new law, to tribunals such as those	withwhich this case is concerned.I  wish to add one thing more on this subject.	Even in	 thecase  of appeals strictly so called, the court	hearing	 theappeal	may  take  cognisance of new  laws  which  are	madeapplicable to pending cases: see Quilter v. Mapleson (2).  Ihave  so long been proceeding on the assumption that  G.  O.Ms.  No.  1689 had no retrospective effect at all.   Now  itseems to me that there is at least grave doubt if G. O.	 Ms.No. 1689 which revived G. O. Ms. No. 1037, was not  intendedto  be applied to pending appeals.  It was directed only  tothe Central Road Traffic Board which heard appeals, and thiswould  indicate	 that it was intended that the	Board  wouldfollow	it  in deciding the appeals that were  then  pendingbefore	it.   It is not therefore clear that G. O.  Ms.	 No.1689 was not intended to(1) [1936] Ch. 237, 243.		  (2) (1882) 9 Q.B.D. 672.253have  at least this retrospective effect.  If it did,  whichon  the form of the order it may well be said to have  done,then that would be another reason for saying that it is	 notclear that the Board was in error in applying it.In  my view therefore it has not been shown that  the  Boardcommitted  an error apparent on the face of its decision  inapplying  G. O. Ms. No. 1037 to the appellant's case.	Thisappeal must therefore fail.Before	leaving the case I wish to express my opinion  on  amatter	which was pressed on behalf of the  respondent.	  Itwas said that only administrative orders could be made unders.  43-A which orders were not laws, and therefore an  errorwith regard to them would not be an error of law which wouldwarrant the issue of a certiorari.  I am unable to assent tothis  contention.  To my mind the question is not solved  bydescribing the orders as administrative orders, a term as tothe meaning of which, I confess, I am not clear.  So it doesnot  seem  to  me to be necessary to enquire  what  kind  oforders	could  be issued under s. 43-A.	 In my	view  if  anorder under the section is one to the observance of which  aperson is entitled, that would be a law, a mistake of  whichwould  justify the issue of the writ at his  instance.	 Thewhole justification for a writ of certiorari is to  prevent,where no other remedy is available, a patent injustice beingallowed	 to  stand.   It would be strange if  a	 person	 wasentitled  to  the observance of a rule and was held  not  tohave a remedy for its breach.  It can make no difference  bywhat  name  that rule is called.  I wish to read here  as  asalutary advice to follow, what Pollock C. B. and Martin  B.said  in The Mayor of Rochester v. The Queen  (1)  regardingthe writ, " Instead of being astute to discover reasons	 fornot applying this great constitutional remedy for error	 andmis-government, we think it our duty to be vigilant to applyit  in every case to which, by any reasonable  construction,it can be made applicable."The real question thus is whether the applicants for permitswere entitled to the observance of the orders(1)  (1858) EL.	 BL. & EL. 1024,1033; 120 E.R. 791.254with  which we are dealing. I think they clearly  were.	 Theorders	were made under a statutory provision.	That  itselfwould  make  them binding.  Further, the  statute  expresslysays that the " Transport Authority shall give effect to allsuch  orders and directions ". The statute applies  to	all;every  one  is entitled to the benefit of  it.	 Any  personinterested  has	 therefore a right to claim  that  an  orderpassed under the section shall be observed by the  TransportAuthorities.   The respondent himself made such a claim	 andhas got the benefit of one of these orders.It  was	 however  said that it is true	that  the  TransportAuthorities owed a duty to observe the orders but that was aduty they owed to the Government alone and that a breach  ofthis  duty only exposed them to disciplinary action  by	 theGovernment  but did not vitiate their decisions.  I find  nowords  in  the	section so to limit the scope  of  the	dutyimposed	 by it on the Transport Authorities.  The nature  ofthe orders makes it impossible to think that it was intendedto visit a breach by disciplinary action only.	These orderslay  down  principles to be applied in	deciding  whether  aperson should or should not be given a permit.	They  affectpersons materially ; they affect persons' living . I find itvery  difficult	 to think that the only	 sanction  for	suchrules can be disciplinary action.  It seems to me  abhorrentthat  judicial	bodies	should in  the	discharge  of  theirfunctions be subjected to disciplinary action.	Then I thinkit  would certainly be a very unusual statute which sets  upquasi-judicial	 tribunals  with  power	 to  affect   peoplematerially  and binds the tribunals on pain of	disciplinaryaction	only  to proceed according to rules made  under	 itsauthority  but	gives  the persons deeply  affected  by	 thetribunal's decision no right to claim that the rules  shouldbe  observed.  I am unable to hold that the  Motor  VehiclesAct is a statute of this kind.I  ought to refer to the case of Nagendra Nath Bora  v.	 TheCommissioner of Hills Division and Appeals, Assam (1).	Thatwas  a	case  concerning a licensing  authority	 for  liquor-hops.	It was there said that a(1)  [1958] S-C.R. 1240.			    255breach	of  certain  executive instructions  issued  to	 thelicensing authority did not amount to error of law.  I thinkthat  case  is	clearly	 distinguishable.   It	dealt	withexecutive instructions and therefore not such as were issuedunder  a statutory power.  There is nothing to show that  itwas  the  bounden  duty	 of  the  tribunal,  the   licensingauthority, to obey these instructions.	Had it not been thata  hierachy  of	 appeals had been  provided  for,  it  wouldperhaps	 have been held in that case that the authority	 wasnot a quasi-judicial authority at all.	Furthermore, it	 washeld there that no one had an inherent right to a settlementof  a liquor shop.  Therefore it seems to me that that	casedoes  not help in deciding the effect of the  orders  issuedunder  s. 43-A.	 It is interesting to note that it was	saidin  that case referring to the writ of certiorari at p.	 412that, " its purpose is only to determine, on an	 examinationof  the record, whether the inferior tribunal  has  exceededits jurisdiction or has not proceeded in accordance with theessential  requirements	 of  law  which	 it  was  meant	  toadminister."  The  words  "  law  which	 it  was  meant	  toadminister   "	 are  very   significant.    The   TransportAuthorities  in	 the present case were	certainly  meant  toadminister the orders issued under s. 43-A.There  is  one	thing more that I wish to  observe  in	thisconnection.  It may be that an order which it is the boundenduty  of  the  Transport Authority to obey  may	 give  it  acertain amount of discretion, but that in my view would riotmake  the order any the less a law.  If the  discretion	 hasbeen duly exercised, there would be no error of law for	 thelaw  itself gives the discretion.  It would be	the  boundenduty of the tribunal to observe that law and so if necessaryto exercise the discretion given by it.For the reasons earlier mentioned, however, I agree that theappeal should be dismissed.Appeal dismissed.256