PETITIONER:THE WESTERN INDIA THEATRES LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE CANTONMENT BOARD, POONA,CANTONMENTDATE OF JUDGMENT:16/01/1959BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR  582		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2)  63 CITATOR INFO : R	    1959 SC 586	 (4) F	    1959 SC 894	 (2) R	    1962 SC1006	 (74) E	    1989 SC1949	 (7) R	    1990 SC  85	 (23) R	    1992 SC1848	 (7)ACT:       Entertainment   Tax-Imposition  on   cinema   show-Validity-       Cantonments  Act,  1924	(Act  11  of  1924),  s.  60-Bombay       Municipal  Boroughs Act, 1925 (Bom.  XVIII of 1925), s.	73-       Government of India Act, 1935, s. 100, Sch.  VII, Entry 50.HEADNOTE:The  appellant, a public limited company, was the lessee  ofwo  cinema  houses, " West, End " and " Capitol	 "  situatedwithin the Poona cantonment area. , By a notification  datedJune  17, 1948, the Bombay Government with the	sanction  ofthe Governor-General-in-Council imposed certain taxes in thecantonment of Poona including an entertainment tax of Rs. 10per show on the appellant's cinema houses and Rs. 5 per showon  others.  The appellant, who paid the tax under  protest,brought the suit, out of which the present appeal arose, fora declaration that the64imposition  of the said tax by the respondent  was  illegal,for  a permanent injunction restraining it from levying	 thetax  and  for the refund of Rs. 45,802, paid as tax  by	 theappellant.   The trial Court decreed the suit but  the	HighCourt, on appeal by the respondent, reversed the decision ofthe  trial Court and dismissed the suit.' Under s. 60(1)  ofthe  Cantonments  Act, 1924 (11 Of 1924), read	with  S.  73(xiv)  Of  the	Bombay Municipal Boroughs  Act,	 1925  (Bom.XVIII  of 1925), the respondent had the power to impose	 anyother  tax  which the Bombay  Provincial  Legislature  couldimpose	on  the	 province.   The  question,  therefore,	 waswhether	 the Bombay Legislature had the power to impose	 thetax  in	 question.   It	 was  contended	 on  behalf  of	 theappellant  that	 although  the	Provincial  Legislature	 hadundoubtedly  the  power under s. 100 of	 the  Government  ofIndia Act, 1935, read with Entry 50 in Sch.  VII thereto, tomake  law  with respect to " taxes  on	luxuries,  includingtaxes on entertainments, amusements, betting and gambling ",the said entry contemplated a law imposing taxes on  personswho  enjoyed the luxuries, entertainments or amusements	 andnot on persons who provided them.  Such a tax, if levied  onthe  latter would be one on profession, trade or calling  ascontemplated by Entry 46 of the said Schedule and could	 notexceed Rs. 100 per annum under s. 142A of the Government  ofIndia Act, 1935, and Rs. 250 per annum under Art. 276(2)  ofthe Constitution.Held, that the contention must be negatived.It  is well-settled that in construing an  entry  conferringlegislative   powers,  the  widest   possible	constructionaccording  to  their ordinary meaning must be given  to	 thewords  used.   There  could  be	 no  reason,  therefore,  inconstruing Entry 50, to differentiate between the giver	 andthe  receiver of the luxuries, entertainments or  amusementsand both must be held to be amenable to the tax.Navinchandra  Mafatlal	v. The Commissioner  of	 Income-tax,Bombay City, [1955] 11 S.C.R. 829, referred to.Although  an  entertainment  tax was regarded as  a  tax  onexpenditure, there was no warrant for holding that Entry  50contemplated  only  a  tax  on	moneys	spent  on  luxuries,entertainments	or  amusements.	 What it had  in  view	werethese  matters, and not either the giver or the receiver  ofthem, as the real objects of legislation.The  impugned tax was distinguishable from a tax on  a	pro-fession or calling.  It was a tax imposed on an actual show,and  not  on a profession or calling whether  there  was  anexercise of it or not.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 145 of 1955.Appeal	from the judgment and decree dated the February	 10,1953, of the Bombay High Court in65Appeal No. 742 of 1951 from Original Decree, arising out  ofthe  judgment and decree dated July 31, 1951,, of the  Courtof the Senior Civil Judge, Poona, in Special' Suit No. 89 of1950.H.   D. Banaji, R. A. Gagrat and G. Gopalakrishnan, for	 theappellant.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India,H.   J. Umrigar and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.  1959.January 16.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byDAS, C. J.-This is an appeal from the judgment and decree ofthe  High Court of Bombay dated February 10,  1953,  settingaside  the judgment and decree of the Court of Civil  Judge,Senior Division, Poona dated July 31, 1951, in Special	SuitNo.  89 of 1950 and dismissing the appellant's suit  againstthe respondent with costs throughout.  This appeal has	beenfiled  under  a certificate of fitness granted by  the	HighCourt of Bombay.The  facts leading up to this appeal may shortly be  stated.The  appellant is a public limited company registered  underthe  Indian  Companies	Act, 1913.  It is a  lessee  of	 twocinema	Houses	known  respectively as " West End  "  and  "Capitol	 "  situated within the limits of  Poona  cantonmentarea.	It  exhibits in the said  two  Houses  cinematographfilms, both foreign and Indian.On  March  20, 1947, a notice was issued by  the  respondentwhereby, in exercise of the powers conferred on it by s.  60of  the Cantonments Act, 1924 (11 of 1924),  the  respondentproposed to make, with the previous sanction of the  CentralGovernment,  certain amendments in the notification  of	 theGovernment  of	Bombay in the General  Department  No.	4160dated June 17, 1918, and intimated that the draft amendmentswould be considered by the respondent on or after April	 21,1947,  and invited objection in writing within 30 days	fromthe  publication  of  that  notice.  One  of  the  items  ofamendments was as follows:-"(ii) 'V-Tax on Entertainments'9661. Cinemas, Talkies or Rs.	 5-0-0 per   dramas		  Rs.	10-0-0 show2. Circus		  Rs.	20-0-0 per show3.  Horse  Races	    Rs.	 100-0-0  per  day  of	racemeeting.4.   Amusement park	  Rs.	20-0-0 per dayprovided as follows:-1.   The said tax shall be levied at the rate of Rs.  10-0-0per show in the case of the West End and Capitol Talkies andat the rate of Rs. 5-0-0 per show in other cases ".It appears that the Cinematograph Exhibitors Association  ofIndia  submitted certain objections to the  proposals.	 TheCantonment  Executive  Officer, Poona, by his  letter  datedJuly  8, 1947, informed the Secretary of  the  CinematographExhibitors Association of India that the latter's letter hadbeen submitted to the Government of India in original  alongwith  the respondent's proposals and that the imposition  ofthe  entertainments tax on cinemas had been approved by	 theGovernment  of	India, Defence Department  notification	 No.1463 dated May 7, 1947.	 On June 17,1948, a notification wasissued	by  the Government of Bombay to the effect  that  insupersession of the notifications of Government noted on themargin	and of all other notifications on the same  subject,the  Governor in Council, with the previous sanction of	 theGovernor  General-in-Council was pleased to  impose  certaintaxes  in the Cantonment of Poona with effect from July	 15,1948.  One of the taxes thus imposed was as follows:-" V Tax on entertainments.1.   Cinemas,  Talkies or dramas Rs. 10.0-0 :in the case  ofthe West End per show and CapitolIn other cases Rs. 5-0-0 per show2.   Circus    Rs. 2-0-0 per show3.   Horse Races    Rs. 100-0-0 per			day of race			meetings.4.   Amusement park Rs. 20-0-0 per			day."67The  appellant	paid the tax under protest and on  or  aboutApril  19,  1950, filed a suit (being suit No. 89  of  1950)against	 the  respondent in the Court of  the  Civil  Judge,Senior	Division,  Poona for a declaration  that  the  levy,collection or recovery of the said tax by the respondent wasillegal and invalid, for a permanent injunction	 restrainingthe  respondent from levying, collecting or  recovering	 thesaid tax, for refund of the sum of Rs. 45,802-0-0 being	 thetotal amount of tax collected from the appellant, for  costsand  interest on judgment.  By its judgment dated  July	 31,1951,  the  trial  court  decreed the  suit  in	 full.	 Therespondent preferred an appeal before the High Court againstthe said judgment and decree of the trial court and the HighCourt  by its judgment and decree dated February  10,  1953,allowed	 the appeal and dismissed the appellant's suit	withcosts  throughout.  The High Court, however, granted to	 theappellant a certificate of fitness for appeal to this  Courtand hence this final appeal questioning the validity of	 thesaid tax.At  all	 times material to this appeal	the  respondent	 wasgoverned  by  the Cantonments Act, 1924 (Act  11  of  1924).Section 60 of that Act runs as follows:-"  60(1)  The Board may, with the previous sanction  of	 thelocal  Government, impose in any Cantonment any	 tax  which,under  any  enactment for the time being in  force,  may  beimposed	 in  any municipality in the  province	wherein	 theCantonment is situated.(2)  Any  tax imposed under this section shall	take  effectfrom the date of its notification in the official gazette ".The enactment under which shortly after the date of  passingof  the Cantonments Act, 1924, tax could be imposed  by	 themunicipal boroughs in the province of Bombay was the  BombayMunicipal   Boroughs  Act,  1925  (Bom.	  XVIII	 of   1925).Therefore the powers of the respondent to. levy and  collecttaxes  under the provisions of the Cantonments Act were	 co-extensive  with	 the powers of	the  Borough  Municipalitiesunder  the Bombay Municipal Boroughs Act, 1925.	 Section  73of the last mentioned Act specified the taxes which68might  be imposed by a municipality.  The relevant  portionsthereof, prior to its present adaptation, were as follows:-"  Subject  to	any  general or	 special  orders  which	 theProvincial  Government	may make in this behalf and  to	 theprovisions of sections 75 and 76, a municipality may  imposefor  the  purposes of this Act any of the  following  taxes,namely:-(xiv) any other tax (not being a toll on motor vehicles	 andtrailers.,  save  as provided by section 14  of	 the  BombayMotor Vehicles Tax Act, 1935) which under the Government  ofIndia  Act,  1935, the provincial Legislature has  power  toimpose	in  the	 province."  The  question  is	whether	 theprovincial legislature of Bombay had power to impose the taxwhich is under consideration in this appeal.Under s. 100 of the Government of India Act, 1935 read	withentry 50 in Sch.  VII thereto the provincial legislature hadpower  to  make	 law with respect to "	taxes  on  luxuries,including  taxes on entertainments, amusements, betting	 andgambling ". Learned counsel for the appellant contends	thatthe impugned tax is not covered by this entry at all.	Thisentry,	according to him, contemplates a law imposing  taxeson  persons who receive or enjoy the luxuries or the  enter-tainments or the amusements and, therefore, no law made withrespect to matters covered by this entry can impose a tax onpersons	  who  provide	the  luxuries,	 entertainments	  oramusements,  for  the  last  mentioned	persons	  themselvesreceive	 or enjoy no luxury or entertainment  or  amusement,but  simply  carry on their profession,	 trade	or  calling.Learned	 counsel urges that the impugned law is	 really	 onewith respect to matters specified in entry 46, namely, taxeson professions, trades, callings and employments and, there-fore,  cannot exceed Rs. 100 per annum under s. 142A of	 theGovernment  of India Act, 1935 and Rs. 250 per	annum  underArt.  276(2) of the Constitution.  We are unable  to  acceptthis argument as sound.69As  pointed out by this' Court in Navinchandra	Mafatlal  v.The  Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay City (1),  followingcertain	 earlier decisions referred to therein, the  entriesin  the legislative list should not be read in a  narrow  orrestricted  sense and that each general word should be	heldto  extend to all ancillary or subsidiary matters which	 canfairly and reasonably be said to be comprehended in it.	  Ithas been accepted as well settled that in construing such anentry conferring legislative powers the widest possible con-struction  according to their ordinary meaning must  be	 putupon  the  words  used	therein.   In  view  of	 this	wellestablished  rule of interpretation, there can be no  reasonto construe the words " taxes on luxuries or  entertainmentsor  amusements " in entry 50 as having a restricted  meaningso  -as	 to  confine the operation of the  law	to  be	madethereunder only to taxes on persons receiving the  luxuries,entertainments,	 or  amusements.   The	entry	contemplatesluxuries, entertainments, and amusements as objects on whichthe tax is to be imposed.  If the words are to be so regard-ed,  as	 we  think  they must, there can  be  no  reason  todifferentiate  between	the giver and the  receiver  of	 theluxuries,  entertainments, or amusements and both may,	withequal  propriety, be made amenable to the tax.	It  is	truethat  economists  regard an entertainment tax as  a  tax  onexpenditure  and,  indeed, when the tax is  imposed  on	 thereceiver  of  the  entertainment, it does become  a  tax  onexpenditure, but there is no warrant for holding that  entry50  contemplates  only a tax on moneys	spent  on  luxuries,entertainments	or amusements.	The entry, as we have  said,contemplates a law with respect to these matters regarded asobjects	 and  a	 law  which  imposes  tax  on  the  act	  ofentertaining  is  within the entry whether it falls  on	 thegiver  or  the receiver of that entertainment.	Nor  is	 theimpugned tax a tax imposed for the privilege of carrying  onany  trade or calling.	It is a tax imposed on	every  show,that  is  to say, on every instance of the exercise  of	 theparticular  trade,  calling or employment.  If there  is  noshow, there is no tax.	A(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 829.70lawyer	has  to	 pay  a tax or fee to  take  out  a  licenseirrespective of whether or not he actually practises.	Thattax  is	 a  tax for the privilege of  having  the  right  toexercise  the profession if and when the person	 taking	 outthe license chooses to do so.  The impugned tax is a tax  onthe  act  of  entertainment resulting in  a  show.   In	 ouropinion,  therefore, s. 73 is a law with respect to  mattersenumerated  in	entry  50 and not entry 46  and	 the  Bombaylegislature had ample power to enact this law.The   only  other  point  urged	 before	 us  is	  that	 thenotification is violative of the equal protection clause  ofour  Constitution in that it has picked out the	 appellant'scinema houses for discriminatory treatment by imposing on ita  tax at the rate of Rs. 10 per show, while a tax  of	onlyRs.  5	per  show is imposed on other  cinema  houses.	 Themeaning,  scope, and effect of the provisions of Art. 14  ofour  Constitution have been fully dealt with,  analysed	 andlaid down by this Court in Budhan Choudhury v. The State  ofBihar (1) and Shri Rama Krishna Dalmia v. Shri Justice S. R.Tendolkar (2).	It appears, however, from the record that noissue  was  raised  and	 no  evidence  was  adduced  by	 theappellant  before  the trial court showing that	 there	wereother  cinema  Houses  similarly  situate  as  that  of	 theappellant's  cinema Houses.  It may not be  unreasonable  orimproper if a higher tax is imposed on the shows given by  acinema house which contains large seating accommodation	 andis  situate  in	 fashionable or busy  localities  where	 thenumber	of  visitors is more numerous and in  more  affluentcircumstances  than the tax that may be im. posed  on  showsgiven	in   a	 smaller  cinema   house   containing	lessaccommodation  and  situate  in some  localities  where	 thevisitors  are less numerous or financially in less  affluentcircumstances,	for the two cannot, in those  circumstances,be  said  to be similarly situate.  There was,	however,  nomaterial  on which the trial court could or we may now	cometo  a  decision	 as  to whether	 there	had  been  any	realdiscrimination in the facts and circumstances of this  case.It(1) [1951] S.C.R. 1045.(2) [1959] S.C.R. 279.71may  be	 that the appellant may in  some  future  proceedingadduce	evidence  to establish that there are  other  cinemahouses similarly situate and that the imposition of a highertax  on the appellant is discriminatory as to which  we	 saynothing;  but  all  we need say is that	 in  this  suit	 theappellant  has not discharged the onus that was on him	and,on  the material on record, it is impossible for us to	holdin this case that there has been any discrimination in fact.For reasons stated above this appeal must be dismissed	withcosts.				  Appeal dismissed