PETITIONER:SRI SADASIB PRAKASH BRAHMACHARI	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF ORISSA(With connected petitions)DATE OF JUDGMENT:20/01/1956BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.AIYAR, N. CHANDRASEKHARABOSE, VIVIANSINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1956 AIR  432		  1956 SCR   43ACT:Constitution of India, Art. 19(1)(f )-Orissa Hindu ReligiousEndowments Act, 1951 as amended by Orissa Act XVIII of 1954-SS. 42(1)(b), 42(7), 44(2) and s. 79(A)-Whether ultra  viresthe Constitution.HEADNOTE:Sections 38 and 39 of the Orissa Hindu Religious  EndowmentsAct,  1939 (Orissa Act IV of 1939) as amended by Orissa	 ActXVIII of 1953 were declared unconstitutional and void by theSupreme	 Court	in Mahant Sri Jagannath Bamanuj Das  v.	 TheState  of  Orissa ([1954] S.C.R. 1046) on  the	ground	thatlegislation  in	 so far as it authorised the  framing  of  ascheme	by  the Commissioner along with his  associates	 anddeclared  such determination as final without any scope	 forcorrection  thereof by judicial intervention was  an  unrea-sonable restriction on the right of the head of the Math  asrespects his interest in the Math which is a, right to	boldproperty  within  the  meaning	of  Art.  19(1)(f)  of	 theConstitution.After  the judgment dated 16th March 1954 delivered  by	 theSupreme	 Court in the Case Of Mahant Sri  Jagannath  BamanujDas v. The State of Orissa, ([1954] S.C.R. 1046) the  OrissaLegislature  passed the Orissa Act XVIII of 1954  purportingto  amend not the 1939 Act which was then in  operation	 butthe  Orissa  Act  II of 1952 which had not  then  come	intoforce.The  Orissa  Act XVIII of 1954 received the  assent  of	 thePresident  on the 2nd December 1954 and came into  force  atonce  and  thus the Orissa Act II of 1952 became  pro  tnntoamended	 and  modified.	 The 1952 Act so amended  came	intoforce from the 1st January 1955 by virtue of a	notificationdated  22nd December 1954 issued under the provisions of  s.1(3)  thereof which provided that the Act wag to  come	intoforce  on  such	 date  as  the	State  Government  may.	  bynotification provide.The five petitions under Art. 32 of the Constitution in	 thepresent case challenged the validity of various sections  ofthe Orissa Act II of 1952 as amended by Act XVIII of 1954 onthe principles laid down in the case of Mahant Sri JagannathBamanuj Das v. The State of Orissa, ([1954] S.C.R. 1046). Held,	that ss. 42(1)(b), 42(7), 44(2) as well as s.  79(A)of  Orissa Hindu Religious Endowments Act, 1951 (Orissa	 ActII  of 1952) as amended by Orissa Act XVIII of 1954 are	 notunconstitutional and44ultra vires and the contention that the provisions of ss. 42and  44 of the present Act to the effect (1) that  a  schemecan  be framed by the Commissioner alone on a report of	 theAssistant Commissioner on such inquiry as he thinks fit	 andnot  by	 the Commissioner in association with  one  or	moreGovernment  Officers to be appointed for the purpose by	 theGovernment   (2)  that	there  is  no  right  of  suit	 forchallenging  the validity or the correctness of	 the  schemeframed	by the Commissioner but there is only an  appeal  tothe   High   Court,  still  continue  to   be	unreasonablerestrictions on the right of Mathadipathi as in the case  ofMahant	Sri  Jagannath Bamanuj Das v. The  State  of  Orissa[(1954) S.C.R. 1046] is without substance.In the initial stage of the framing of the scheme under	 theprovisions  of	the  present  Act  there  is  first  of	 allsomething  in  the  nature of a	 preliminary  enquiry  by  ajudicial  officer  of  the  rank of a  Munsif  and  this  isfollowed   by  a  regular  and	full  enquiry	before	 theCommissioner who is of the rank of a Subordinate Judge.	 Theenquiry	 before	 the Commissioner is assimilated to  and  isgoverned by the provisions relating to the trial of suits byenjoining that, as far as may be, it is to be in  accordancewith the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure  relatingto  trial of suits.  'While, therefore, under the prior	 Actthe enquiry before the Commissioner might well have been  ofthe nature of an executive enquiry by an executive  officer,the enquiry under the present Act is by itself in the natureof a judicial enquiry by judicial officers followed up by  aright of regular appeal to the High Court.  A scheme  framedwith  reference	 to such a procedure cannot  ipso  facto  bepronounced   to	 be  in	 the  nature  of   an	unreasonablerestriction  on the rights of the Mahant.   The	 legislaturemight  well have thought that instead of making the  enquirybefore	the  Commissioner more or less in the  nature  of  apreliminary  executive	enquiry	 to be followed	 up  by	 theaffected  Mahant by a regular , suit in the Civil Court,  itis  much more satisfactory and in the public  interests,  tovest  the enquiry before the Commissioner himself  with	 thestamp  of  greater  seriousness	 and  effectiveness  and  toassimilate  the	 same to a regular enquiry by  the  judicialofficer according to judicial procedure and then to  providea right of direct appeal to the High Court.The right of appeal to the High Court is given in very	wideand  general terms because the appeal can be both  on  factsand on law.Mahant	Sri Gadadhar Bamanuj Dos v. The Province of  Orissa,(I.L.R [1949] Cuttack 656), Mahant Sri Jagannath Bamanuj Dasv.   The   State  of  Orissa  ([1954]	S.C.R.	 1046)	 andCommissioner,  Hindu  Beligious Endowments,  Madras  v.	 SriLakshmindra  Thirtha  Swamiar of Sri Shirur  Matth,  ([1964)S.C.R. 1006], referred to.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: , Petitions Nos. 651 of1954 and 39, 46, 51 and 176 of 1955.45Under  Article	32  of the Constitution	 of  India  for	 theenforcement of fundamental rights.S.   P. Sinha (S.  D. Sekhari, with him), for the petitionerin Petition No. 651 of 1954.S.   P., Sinha (B.  K. Saran and M. M. Sinha, with him), forthe petitioner in Petition No. 39 of 1955.B.   K.	 Saran	and  M.	 M. Sinha,  for	 the  petitioner  inPetition No. 46 of 1955.S.   D.	 Sekhari, for the petitioner in Petition No.  51  of1955.R.   Patnaik,  for  the petitioner in Petition	No.  176  of1955.M.   C.	 Setalvad, Attorney-General of India (R.   GanapathyIyer and P. G. Gokhale, with him) for respondents in all thePetitions.1956.  January 20.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyJAGANNADHADAS  J.-These are five petitions under article  32of the Constitution by the heads of five Maths in the  Stateof  Orissa  of	which  four  known  as	Mahiparakash   Math,Uttaraparswa  Math, Dakshinaparswa Math and  Radhakant	Mathare situated in Puri and the fifth known as Manapur Math  isnear  Tirtol  in Cuttack district.  In all  these  petitionscertain provisions of the Orissa Hindu Religious  EndowmentsAct,  1951 (Orissa Act II of 1952) as amended by Orissa	 ActXVIII  of 1954 are challenged as being unconstitutional	 andultra vires.  Since the questions raised are mostly  common,all the petitions are dealt with by this single judgment.These  petitions  have a background of previous	 history  oflegislation and litigation which it is necessary to set	 outin  order  that	 the  questions	 raised,  may  be   properlyappreciated.   The  first  statutory  interference  by	 theProvincial   Legislature  with	the  management	  of   Hindureligious  endowments  in  Orissa was by  the  Orissa  HinduReligious Endowments Act, 1939 (Orissa Act IV of 1939) whichcame into operation46on  the 31st August, 1939.  This was modelled on  a  similarAct  operating	in  the	 Province  of  Madras  at   thetime.ThevalidityoftheActasawholeasalso,  of	certain	  provisionsthereof we're challenged by the Mahants of the various Mathsin Orissa, about 30 in number, by instituting a suit in	 theyear  1940.  The suit was on behalf of the individual  Mathswho  figured as plaintiffs (including three of	the  presentpetitioners,	viz.	Mahants	  of   Mahiparakash    Math,Dakshinaparswa	Math  and  Radhakanta Math) and	 also  in  arepresentative	capacity under Order I, rule 8 of the  CivilProcedure  Code. (Vide printed record of this Court in	CaseNo.  I	of 1950).  That suit was dismissed by  the  DistrictJudge of Cuttack and came up in appeal to the High Court  ofOrissa.	  The High Court upheld the validity of the Act	 andof  the various sections thereof by its judgment  dated	 the13th  September,  1949,	 which is  reported  in	 Mahant	 SriGadadhar  Ramanuj  Das	v. The Province	 of  Orissa(1).  An  appeal  was filed therefrom to the  Supreme  Court  inJaiiuary,'1950,	 which was numbered as Case No. I  of  1950.This appeal remained pending for over four years and came upfor  final hearing in February, 1954.  During the period  ofpendency  of  the appeal the Orissa Legislature	 passed	 twofurther	 Acts relating to Hindu religious  endowments.	 Thefirst of them was Orissa Act II of 1952 which was an Act  to"amend	 and  consolidate  the	law  relating  to  the	 ad-ministration and governance of Hindu religious	institutionsand  endowments	 in the State of Orissa" and  which  on	 itscoming	into force was intended to repeal  the	pre-existingOrissa	Act  IV of 1939.  This Act became law  on  the	16thFebruary, 1952, by the assent of the President.	 It did	 nothowever	 come into force at once on account  of	 sub-section(3)  of section I therein which provided that the Act is  to"come  into force on such date as the State Government	may,by  notification, direct".  No such notification was  issuedduring	the  pendency of the appeal in	the  Supreme  Court.This Act was, in fact, brought into force much later,  i.e.,only as from the 1st Janu-(1)  I.L.R. [19491 Cuttack 656.47ary,  1955,  by a notification of the Government  of  Orissadated  the  22nd  December, 1954, published  in	 the  OrissaGazette dated the 31st December, 1954.	While thus the	1952Act  remained  on the statute book without its	coming	intoforce., other independent statutory provisions amending	 theAct  of	 1939 were passed and brought into  operation.	 Thefirst of them was Orissa Ordinance No. 11 of 1953 which	 waspromulgated by the Governor of Orissa on the 16th May, 1953.This  was  later superseded and substituted  by	 Orissa	 ActXVIII of 1953 which came into operation on the 28th October,1953.  By these two successive legislative measures, the Actof 1939 was amended in certain respects and it is the Act soamended	 that was in operation during the period  from	May,1953 to March, 1954, falling within the later portion of thependency  of Case No. I of 1950 in the Supreme Court.	Sometime   in  1953,  subsequent  to  the  month  of  May,	 theCommissioner of Hindu Religious Endowments, Orissa,  appearsto have initiated proceedings for the framing of schemes  inrespect	 of  a number of Matbs, and  schemes  were  actuallyframed	during	this  period  as  regards  the	four  Maths,Mahiparakash,  Uttaraparswa, Daksbinaparswa  and  Radhakantacomprised  in Petitions Nos. 651 of 1954, 49, 46 and  51  of1955,	respectively.	These  schemes	were  brought	intooperation and the administration of some of these Matbs	 wastaken  over by the Trustees under the  schemes.	  ThereafterMahants	 of  three  of	the  affected  Maths,  Mahiparakash,Uttaraparswa and Radhakanta, who are also petitioners beforeus,  filed  applications under article 226 before  the	HighCourt  of  Orissa challenging the alidity  of  the  schemes.Those  applications were dismissed by the High Court on	 the17th February, 1954.  Meanwhile the Mahant of DakshinaparswaMath who was a petitioner in the High Court and also  beforefiled along with another Mahant, a petition under icle 32 ofthe  Constitution  to this Court on the	 d  December,  1953,challenging  the Act then in force as being in violation  oftheir  fundamental  rights.  This was Petition	No.  405  of1953.  This petition as48well  as Case No. 1 of 1950, referred to above, came up	 forhearing,  together, in this Court on the 9th, 10th and	11thFebruary,   1954.   Judgment  of  this	Court  therein	 wasdelivered on the 16th March, 1954, and is reported in MahantSri  Jagannath Ramanuj Das v. The State of Orissa(2).  As  aresult thereof, sections 38 and 39 of Orissa Act IV of	1939as amended in 1953, under which the schemes were framed weredeclared unconstitutional.  Accordingly, the schemes  becameinvalid	 and therefore the possession of such of  the  Matbswhich had been, taken over under the schemes was restored tothe  Mahants.  (It  may be mentioned  in  passing,  in	thiscontext,  that the judgment of this Court refers  to  OrissaAct  II	 of 1952 as being the one in force at the  time	 andwhose  provisions  were under consideration  by	 the  Court.This  is  a  slip.  The Act then in force  was,	 as  alreadystated, the Act of 1939 as amended in 1953.  That this is  aslip  in the judgment is admitted before us.  That does	 nothowever in any way detract from the reasoning and the  bind-ing  character	of the judgment, since as a fact  what	werereally	referred  to were the sections of the  1939  Act  asamended in 1953).  Now, after the judgment of this Court wasdelivered  in  March, 1954., the  Orissa  Legislature  againintervened and passed another Act, Orissa Act XVIII of 1954.This  Act purported to amend not the 1939 Act which  was  bythen  in  operation but the 1952 Act which had not  by	thencome  into  force. -Orissa Act XVIII of	 1954  received	 theassent of the President on the 2nd December, 1954; and	cameinto  force  at	 once and therefore Orissa Act	II  of	1952became	pro  tanto amended and modified.  By that  date	 the1952  Act so amended was awaiting the issue of	notificationunder  section	1(3) thereof for being brought	into  force.This  notification, as alreay stated, was ultimately  issuedon  the 22nd December. 1954, bringing Orissa Act II of	1952as  amended  Act  XVIII	 of 1954 into  force  from  the	 1stJanuary,  1955, and thereby repealing Orissa Act IV of	1939amended	 in  1953.  The first of the  petitions	 before	 us,relating to Mahiparakash Math was filed in this(1)  [1954] S.C R. 104649Court, anticipating this notification, while the other	fourwere  filed after the notification was issued.	 As  alreadystated,	 all  these  petitions	challenge  the	validity  ofvarious	 sections  of  Act 11 of 1952  as  amended  in	1954(hereinafter referred to as the present Act).  The challengeis  entirely  based upon the principles laid  down  by	thisCourt  in Mahant Sri Jagannath Ramanuj Das v. The  State  ofOri8sa(1).   The'  above  is the  history  of  the  relevantlegislation and the connected parallel litigation.  The  main attack is in respect of sections 42 and 79-A  ofthe  present  Act  relating to	the  schemes  for  religiousinstitutions  of  the kind with which we  are  concerned  inthese  petitions.   There  can	be no  doubt  that  the	 twosections  apply	 to  these  Maths.   The  phrase  "religiousinstitution"  occurring	 in section 42 has been	 defined  asmeaning (also) "a math and endowments attached thereto".   AMath is "an institution	 succession to the headship of whichdevolves in accordance with the directions of the founder oris  regulated  by  custom" and a hereditary  trustee  is  "atrustee	 of  an	 institution  succession  to  whose   officedevolves   by custom or is specifically provided for by	 thefounder".   A  Math  is therefore  a  religious	 institutionpresided  over or managed by a hereditary trustee so  as  torender	section	 42 (1) (b) applicable.	 To  appreciate	 theground of attack it is necessary to trace the changes in theprovisions  relating  to  the framing of  schemes  for	suchinstitutions in the successive legislative measures.  In theAct  as it, stood in 1939 the provisions in this behalf	 aresections  38,  39  and 40.  Since the attack  is  mainly  asregards	 the procedure for the framing of the scheme, it  issufficient to notice what the gist of these three provisionsis  in so far as it relates to the procedure for an  enquiryto  frame a scheme.  Under these three sections the  enquiryis  to be held by the Commissioner for Endowments  appointedunder  the Act.	 For this purpose he is to function  jointlywith  one  or  more  persons in the  service  of  the  Crownappointed by the Provincial Government in(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 1046.750this  behalf.	The  enquiry has to be	conducted  "in	suchmanner	as  may be prescribed".	 In making the	enquiry	 theCommissioner  and the person or persons associated with	 himtherein	 are to consult the trustee and the  persons  havinginterest.   After  the	scheme	is  settled  and  the  orderdetermining the scheme is published in the prescribed mannerthe  trustee or any person having interest may,	 within	 sixmonths of the date of such publication, institute a suit  inthe  court  to modify or set aside such	 order.	  The  ordersettling  a scheme is final and binding on the	trustee	 andall  persons having interest, subject to the result  of	 thesuit, if any, as above mentioned.  Of course, the result  ofthe suit itself would, under the general law, be subject  tofurther	 appeal	 under	the  Civil  Procedure  Code  in	 theordinary way.  Changes  were	 made in these provisions in 1953  first  byOrissa Ordinance II of 1953 and then by Orissa Act XVIII  of1953  as  already  stated.  The modification  is  that	sub-section	 (4)  of section 39 which provided for	a  right  ofsuit,  by  the	trustee or the	person	interested,  in	 theregular civil court (with the concomitant further appeals tohigher courts) was deleted and the following was substitutedas sub-section (4) of section 39:  "Every order under this section shall be published in	 theprescribed manner and the order so passed shall be final andbinding on the trustee and all persons having interest".  As a consequence thereof section 40 of the 1939 Act, whichstated	that  "subject to the result of the suit  the  ordersettling  a  scheme is final", was omitted.  The  result  ofthese  two changes was that once the Commissioner  with	 theassistance of one or more Government officers who were to bespecially  nominated,  settled	a scheme  after	 making	 theprescribed  enquiry, that order was not open to any  furtherquestion  or correction in the ordinary courts.	 It  was  atthis  stage that the validity of the provisions relating  tothe  framing  of a scheme came up for  consideration  beforethis  Court  in	 March,	 1954.	This  Court  held  that	 thelegislation in so far as it authorised the51framing	 of  a	scheme by the Commissioner  along  with	 hisassociates and declared such determination as final  withoutany  scope for correction thereof by judicial  intervention,was an unreasonable restriction on the right of the head  ofthe  Math  with	 reference  to his  interest  in  the  Math.Accordingly sections 38 and 39 of the Act then in force werestruck	down as unconstitutional and invalid.	The  presentprovisions  which  are the result of a later  amendment	 arecontained  in sections 42 and 44 of the present Act and	 aresubstantially different.  The relevant portions thereof	 areas follows:  "42.	(1) Whenever there is reason to believe that in	 theinterest   of	the  proper  administration   of   religiousinstitution a scheme may be settled for it, or when not lessthan  five  persons having interest make an  application  inwriting	 stating  that	in  the	 interests  of	the   properadministration of a religious institution a scheme should besettled	  for	it,  the  Assistant  Commissioner   or	 theCommissioner,  as the case may be, shall proceed to frame  ascheme in the manners hereinafter provided-  (a)  (b)  in the case of a religious institution presided	overor   managed   by  a  hereditary  trustee,   the   AssistantCommissioner  shall make such enquiry as he thinks  fit	 andsubmit	his  report to the Commissioner who  shall  hold  anenquiry	 in the manner prescribed and so far as may  be,  inaccordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Code  of   CivilProcedure, 1908, relating to the trial of suits and if he issatisfied that in the interests of the proper administrationof  such  institution a scheme of administration  should  besettled,  he  shall  consult in the  prescribed	 manner	 thetrustee and the persons having interest and by order  settlea scheme of administration for the institution.   (7)Every  order  of the Commissioner	 settling  a  schemeunder  this  section  shall, subject to	 the  provisions  ofSection 44, be binding on the trustee, the Executive Officerand all persons having interest. 44. (1)52   (2) Any party aggrieved by the order of the	Commissionerunder  sub-section (1) of section 42 may appeal to the	HighCourt  within  thirty  days from the date of  the  order  orpublication thereof as the case may be".  The  effect of these provisions of the present Act is	 (1)that  a scheme can be framed by the Commissioner alone on  areport	of the Assistant Commissioner on such enquiry as  hethinks	fit and not by the Commissioner in association	withone  or	 more Government officers to be	 appointed  for	 thepurpose	 by  the Government, (2) that there is no  right  ofsuit for cballenging the validity or the correctness of	 thescheme	framed	by  the Commissioner but there	is  only  anappeal	to  the High Court direct.  It is urged	 that  theseprovisions still continue to be unreasonable restrictions onthe  rights  of the Mathadipathi and are  accordingly  ultravires  and  unconstitutional.  In the case reported  in	 theCommissioner,  Hindu  Religious Endowments,  Madras  v.	 SriLakshmindra  Thirtha  Swamiar of Sri Shirur  Mutth  (1)	 theinterest of Mathadipathi in the Math has been recognised  asproperty falling within the scope of article 19(1)(f) of theConstitution.	It was recognised that the  ingredients,  ofoffice	and property, of duties and personal  interest,	 areblended	 together  in the rights of a Mahant  and  that	 theMahant has the right to enjoy the property or the beneficialinterest  so long as he is entitled to hold his office.	  Itwas recognised that the beneficial interest which the Mahantenjoys	is  appurtenant to his duties and that as he  is  incharge of a public institution, reasonable restrictions	 canalways	be  placed upon his rights in the interests  of	 thepublic.	 It was however held therein that provisions for theframing	 of  a scheme which by its terms operate by  way  ofunreasonable  restriction  would  be  unconstitutional	 andinvalid.  It is this principle that was applied in the	nextdecision  of this Court relating to Orissa Maths  in  MahantSri Jagannath Ramanuj Das v. The State of Orissa(2).  There,the  validity  of the then provisions of the Act,  i.e.,  ofsections 38 and 39 of(1) (1954] S.C.R. 1005.(2) [1954] S.C.R. 1046.53Orissa Act IV of 1939 as amended in 1953 was adjudged in thefollowing terms:   "Sections  38 and 39 relate to the framing of  a  scheme.The   scheme  can  certainly  be  settled  to	ensure	 dueadministration	of  the endowed property but  the  objectionseems  to  be  that the Act provides for the  framing  of  ascheme not by a civil court or under its supervision but  bythe Commissioner, who is a' mere administrative or executiveofficer.  There is also no provision for appeal against	 hisorder to the court............ We think that the settling ofa  scheme  in  regard  to  a  religious	 institution  by  anexecutive  officer without the intervention of any  judicialtribunal  amounts  to an unreasonable restriction  upon	 theright	of  property  of  the  superior	 of  the   religiousinstitution  which is blended with his office.	Sections  38and 39 of the Act must, therefore, be held to be invalid".  It  is  urged	 that  though the  obvious  purpose  of	 theamending  Act  of  1954 passed after this  decision  by	 theSupreme Court, was to remedy the defect above pointed out byproviding  for	a right of appeal direct to the	 High  Courtfrom  the  determination of the	 Commissioner  settling	 thescheme,	  the  present	provisions  still  continue  to	  beunreasonable  restrictions on the right of property  of	 theMahant.	 It is further urged that the initial decision in  ascheme-proceeding  is  still on the basis  of  an  executiveenquiry	 by  an	 executive officer and that in	any  case  adirect	 appeal	  to   the  High  Court	  as   against	 theCommissioner's	order  cannot  be as  adequate	a  safeguardregarding  the rights of the Mahants, as a suit and a  rightof  appeal  therefrom in the ordinary course to	 the  highercourts	would  be.   It	 is undoubtedly	 true  that  from  alitigant's  point of view an appeal to the High	 Court	fromthe Commissioner's order is not the same as, an	 independentright  of suit and an appeal to the higher courts  from	 theresult	of  that suit.	But in order to	 judge	whether	 theprovisions in the present Act operate by way of unreasonablerestriction  for constitutional purposes what is to be	seenis  whether the person affected gets a reasonable chance  ofpresenting  his	 entire case before  the  original  tribunalwhich has to54determine judicially the questions raised and whether he hasa  regular  appeal to the ordinarily  constituted  court  orcourts	to  correct the errors, if any, of the	tribunal  offirst  instance.  For that purpose it is relevant to  noticethat in the present Act, the Commissioner of Endowments has,by  virtue  of	section 4 thereof, to be  a  member  of	 theJudicial Service (of the State) not being below the rank  ofa Subordinate Judge, while under section 7 of Act IV of 1939a Commissioner of Endowments could be a person of either thejudicial  or  the executive service and that  even  where  amember	of  the judicial service is appointed he  may  be  aperson	below  the  rank of a  Subordinate  Judge.   Anotherimportant  difference  has also to be  noticed,	 viz.,	thatwhile  under section 38 of the previous Act the enquiry	 hasto be conducted "in such manner as may be prescribed"  whichmeans  as prescribed by the Provincial Government  by  rulesmade  under the Act and hence changeable by the	 Government,under  the  present  Act,  section  42(1)  (b)	specificallyenjoins that "the Commissioner shall hold an enquiry in	 themanner	prescribed and so far as may be in  accordance	withthe  provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure	relating  tothe trial of suits".  It may also be noticed that before theCommissioner  starts  his enquiry it is	 expected  that	 theAssistant  Commissioner, who, by virtue of section 5(2),  isto  be a person holding a judicial office not lower in	rankthan that of a Munsif, is to make such enquiry as he  thinksfit and submit his report.  Thus in the initial stage of theframing	 of the scheme under the provisions of	the  presentAct  there  is	first of all something in the  nature  of  apreliminary  enquiry by a judicial officer of the rank of  aMunsif	and this is followed by a regular and  full  enquirybefore the Commissioner who is of the rank of a	 SubordinateJudge.	 The enquiry before the Commissioner is	 assimilatedto  and is governed by the provisions relating to the  trialof suits by enjoining that, as far as may be, it is to be inaccordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Code  of   CivilProcedure  relating  to trial of suits.	  While,  therefore,under  the  prior Act the enquiry  before  the	Commissionermight well55have  been  of	the nature of an  executive  enquiry  by  anexecutive  officer, the enquiry under the present Act is  byitself	in  the	 nature of a judicial  enquiry	by  judicialofficers  followed  up by a right of regular appeal  to	 theHigh  Court.   A  scheme framed with  reference	 to  such  aprocedure cannot ipsofacto be pronounced to be in the natureof  unreasonable  restriction on the rights of	the  Mahant.The  legislature' might well have thought that,	 instead  ofmaking	the enquiry before the Commissioner more or less  inthe nature of a preliminary executive enquiry to be followedup  by the affected Mahant by way of a regular suit  in	 theCivil Court'. it is much more satisfactory and in the publicinterests,  to impress the enquiry before  the	Commissionerhimself	  with	 the  stamp  of	 greater   seriousness	 andeffectiveness  and  to	assimilate the	same  to  a  regularenquiry	 by  the  judicial  officer  according	to  judicialprocedure  and then to provide a right of direct  appeal  tothe High Court.  It has been strongly urged that a mere right to appeal  tothe High Court would virtually be in the nature of a limitedappeal	confined to challenge only on certain basic  mattersand  probably limited to questions of law.  We can  find  nowarrant	 for any such apprehension.  The right of appeal  isgiven in very wide and general terms.  Obviously the  appealcan be both on facts and on law and would relate not  merelyto  the merits of the scheme but also to all  basic  matterswhose  determination  is implicit in the very framing  of  ascheme.	  In  our opinion the present provisions  cannot  bestruck	 down  as  being  in  the  nature  of	unreasonablerestriction on the rights of the Mahant.  Two  other minor provisions in this connection  have	beenbrought	 to  our  notice  and  relied  upon  as	  indicatingunreasonable  restriction on the rights.  One is that  whileunder  the 1939 Act the period of limitation for a right  ofsuit was six months, the period allowed for an appeal  underthe  present  Act is only 30 days.  Another  is	 that  undersection 74(3) the operation of the order of the Commissioneris not to be stayed pending the disposal of the appeal.	 It56has  been urged that these provisions operate  very  harshlyagainst the Mahant affected by a scheme when framed.  It  ispointed	 out that as the result of a scheme being  put	intooperation  immediately,	 the Mahant may be deprived  of	 theeffective   possession	of  the	 Math  and  hence   of	 thewherewithal  to	 file an appeal within the very	 short	timethat  is  allowed, as also of the resources to	conduct	 theappeal	in the High Court or to maintain himself during	 itspendency  which may take years.	 There is not much force  inthis contention.  In so far as the question of filing of  anappeal is concerned, there should be no difficulty since theprovisions  relating to appeals in forma pauperis  would  beapplicable  and can be availed of if the circumstances	callfor it.	 In so far as any situation may arise which may callfor financial facilities for the conducting of the appeal orfor   interim  maintenance,  the  learned   Attorney-Generalsuggests that the appellate Court would have inherent  powerand discretion to give appropriate directions for supply  offunds  out  of the trust estate and that in any	 view,	suchpower and discretion have to be implied in the provision foran  appeal so that the said right of appeal may	 not  becomeillusory.  Having regard to the suggestion thus put forward,which  we  accept,  we cannot hold  that  the  provision  insection	 74(3)	that  the  operation of	 the  order  of	 theCommissioner  framing a scheme is not to be  stayed  pendingthe  disposal  of the appeal, brings about  an	unreasonablerestriction.   In  this view we think  that  the  incidentalprovisions above referred to do not in any way detract	fromthe reasonableness of the main provisions.  In our  opinion,therefore,  the	 provisions in the present Act	of  1952  asamended in 1954, relating to the framing of schemes are	 notopen to any of the constitutional objections raised, and arevalid.  The  next point that has been urged, depends on  the	factthat  in  four of the petitions before us  relating  to	 theMaths  of  Mahiparakash,  Uttaraparswa,	 Dakshinaparswa	 andRadhakanta,  schemes  were in fact framed in the  year	1953under the provisions of57Orissa	Act  IV	 of  1939 as amended in	 1953.	 It  may  berecalled  that	these provisions were held  invalid  by	 thedecision  of this Court in March, 1954, above  referred	 to.It  must therefore be taken that these schemes were void  asthe law then stood.  It is with reference to that  situationthat  the Orissa Legislature by an amendment in 1954 of	 the1952 Act introduced section 79-A into this Act which runs asfollows:  "Notwithstanding  anything contained in any of  the  otherprovisions  of this Act or in any judgment, decree or  orderof any court all schemes purporting to have been settled  inpursuance  of  sections	 38  and  39  of  the  Orissa  HinduReligious  Endowments Act, 1939, after the  commencement  ofthe Orissa Hindu Religious Endowments (Amendment) Ordinance,1953,  and  before  the commencement of this  Act  shall  bedeemed to have been settled under the provisions of this Actand any person aggrieved by any such scheme may within sixtydays  from  the date of commencement of this Act  prefer  anappeal to the High Court and such appeal shall be dealt withand  disposed of in the same manner as appeals provided	 forunder sub-section (2) of section 44". This  purports to revive the schemes which were  pronouncedto be invalid by the judgment of this Court and attempts  toremove	the defect noticed in the judgment of this Court  byproviding  for	a regular appeal to the High  Court  againstthat  very  scheme  within  60 days from  the  date  of	 thecommencement of the Act.  It may be noticed that the schemesso  revived  are  only those which were	 settled  after	 thecommencement   of   Orissa   Hindu   Religious	  Endowments(Amendment) Ordinance, 1953, and before the commencement  ofthe 1952 Act, i.e., between 16th May, 1953 to 31st December,1954,  (hereinafter  referred to as the	 specified  period).This  was exactly the period within which the  amendment  of1939 Act made in 1953 was in force, abolishing the right  ofsuit and making the scheme as determined by the Commissionerfinal  and  conclusive.	 Section 79-A in terms	purports  torevive the invalid scheme notwith-858standing  any judgment, decree or order of any court,  whichmeans that though a court may have pronounced the scheme  asvoid  still  that  is  deemed to  be  alive.   It  has	beensuggested  that	 this is directly flouting the	decision  ofthis Court and that the legislature has no power to  declareas  valid and constitutional what was decided by this  Courtas  invalid and unconstitutional.  But it is to be  observedthat the legislature does not purport to do anything of	 thekind.	What it does is not to deem the	 schemes  previouslysettled as having been validly settled on those very  dates,under  the  then  existing law.	 This of  course  is  beyondlegislative  competence	 since the legislature has  not	 thepower to override unconstitutionality as such.	But what thelegislature  has  purported to do is to take up	 those	veryschemes	 and  deem  them  to have  been	 settled  under	 the_provisions of the present Act and thereby to lay them	opento any attack available under the present law.	Such a	pro-vision	is  not	 uncommon in legislative  practice,  and  isenacted in order to avoid the public inconvenience of havingto  re-do  what	 has previously been done.   The  result  ofsection	 79-A  is  to treat the schemes	 framed	 within	 thespecified  period  as schemes framed immediately  after	 thecommencement of the present Act and to impute thereto, by  afiction,  compliance with the various procedural  and  othersteps  which are requisite under section 42.  We can see  noreason for thinking that such a provision is not within	 thecompetence  of the Legislature.	 It has been suggested	thatthis  is  really interfering with the jurisdiction  of	thisCourt  under article 32.  But there is no substance in	thatsuggestion.   The right of any person to seek  remedy  underarticle	 32 in respect of any violation of  his	 fundamentalrights	is in no way curtailed or affected by the fact	thatan  actual  decision of this Court on an  application  underarticle	 32  is,  in effect, nullified	by  appropriate	 andcompetent legislative measures.	 Indeed, the right has been,in fact, successfully invoked on the prior occasion and	 hasagain  been  invoked on the present occasion.  If  it  failsthis time it is not because the right and the remedy under59article 32 have been taken away or affected but because	 theunconstitutionality   has  been	 removed.    Section   79-A,therefore,  is	not open to any objection on the  ground  oflegislative incompetence.  It  has  further  been  urged that  to  treat	 the  schemeprepared  with	reference to the Act of 1939 as	 amended  in1953 as a scheme prepared under the present Act by means  ofa fiction is really in the nature of deprivation of  certainadvantages  which an aggrieved person would have had  if  infact the scheme was settled under the present Act, and	thattherefore  such	 a  scheme would still	operate	 by  way  ofunreasonable  restriction.  This contention is also  withoutsubstance.  It is true that in the present Act the procedurerelating to the scheme has four steps which are as  follows:(1) The scheme is to be framed by a Commissioner, who is, byappointment, a judicial officer.(2)  The procedure is, as far as may be, the same as that inthe trial of suits.(3)  There  is	a  preliminary	enquiry	 by  the   AssistantCommissioner.(4) There is an appeal to the High Court.Out of these four, the substantial item is the last one	 andthat  has been specifically provided for under section	79-Aand a period of sixty days from the date of the commencementof the Act has been provided for the right of appeal.  Therecan be no complaint on this score.  It  is  true	that  the schemes  under  the  Act  then  inoperation, i.e., during the specified period, might possiblyhave been framed by (a) an executive officer, as also (b) inpursuance  of  procedure  under	 the  rules  framed  by	 theExecutive Government which may not approximate to that of  atrial of a suit.But this  was	merely	 a   theoreticalpossibility.In	fact, as appears from the record and,  ashas beenstated	to us by the learned  Attorney-General	onbehalf of the State and not disputed on the other side,	 theEndo  wment Commissioner during the specified period  was  aSubordinate  Judge  of	the Orissa  Judicial  Service.	 Theactual	procedure which was in force at the time  under	 therules as then prescribed was also in fact in60consonance with the trial of suits under the Civil ProcedureCode.	This  appears clearly from rules 51 to	109  of	 theRules  framed by the Government of Orissa, an official	copyof  which  has been supplied to us in court by	the  learnedAttorney-General  on  behalf of the State.  As	regards	 theprovision  that	 the enquiry by the Commissioner  under	 thepresent	 Act has to be preceded by a preliminary enquiry  byan  Assistant Commissioner who is of the rank if  a  Munsif,the  argument  that the deprivation of this feature  by	 thedeeming	  provision   in  section  79-A	 operates   to	 thedisadvantage  of the Mahants is not by any means  a  seriouspoint.	It is to be noticed that this is setoff by the	factthat  schemes  under  the 1939 Act are	framed	not  by	 theCommissioner  alone  but along with one or  more  Governmentofficers  appointed by the Government.	We  are,  therefore,unable to, uphold the contention that the deeming  provisionunder  section	79-A which treats the  previous	 schemes  asschemes	 framed	 under the present Act results	in  bringingabout any substantial disadvantages to the detriment of	 theMahants.   We  accordingly  hold that section  79-A  of	 thepresent Act is not open to any constitutional objection.  We  are, therefore, clearly of the opinion  that  sections42(1)(b),  42(7)  and 44(2) as well as section 79-A  of	 thepresent	 Act are not open to the  constitutional  objectionsraised before us.  It  may be mentioned that in the petitions before us	someother	provisions  of	the  present  Act  have	 also	beenchallenged as being unconstitutional.  But no arguments havebeen advanced before us in respect thereof.  It may also  bementioned  that the petitions before us have not raised	 anyquestions relating to the merits of the scheme in so far  asany specific provisions thereof may have operated by way  ofunreasonable  restrictions, in the light of  the  considera-tions  pointed	out  by this Court in its  judgment  in	 theCommi8sioner,  Hindu  Religious Endowments,  Madras  v.	 SriLakshmindra  Thirtha  Swamiar of Sri Shirur  Mutth(1).	 Nordoes it appear that any appeal as(1) [1954] S C.R. 1005.61provided in section 79-A has been filed to the High Court inrespect	 of  these  cases challenging the  validity  or	 thepropriety  of  the  various  provisions	 in  the  scheme  orcorrectness  of	 the decision, express or  implied,  on	 thebasic	facts  which  are  the	foundation  of	the   schemeproceedings.  We express no opinion on any of these matters.  In the last of the petitions relating to Manapur Math, thefacts  appear  to be slightly dissimilar but this  makes  nosubstantial  or	 material  difference.	 In  that  case	 theoriginal  scheme was one framed under sections 38 and 39  ofthe  1939 Act as they stood before their amendment  in	1953which  provided for a right of suit.  The scheme itself	 wasdated  the 22nd May, 1948.  Previous to the framing  of	 thescheme there appears to have been a claim by the Mahant thatthe  institution was a private one and not a public one	 andthat  it  did not fulfil the definition of the	word  "Math"under  the  Act.  There appears to have	 been  a  compromisebetween	 the  then Mahant and the public of the	 village  inwhich the Math is situated, who were interested in the Math.The compromise was to the effect that the institution was tobe  declared  a	 Math but that the then	 Mahant	 was  to  berecognised   as	 the  hereditary  trustee   thereof.	Thiscompromise  was recognised by the Commissioner by his  orderdated  the  12th  May,	1947,  formally	 making	 the   abovedeclarations.  It was on the basis of this that, later on, ascheme was framed on the 22nd May, 1948.  It does not appearthat  the Mahant filed any suit which was then available  tohim.   But  it	is  stated to us  by  the  learned  Advocateappearing  for the petitioner that an application was  filedin  the High Court for a writ to qudsh the scheme, and	thatit  was	 dismissed by the High Court on the  16th  November,1954.	The  scheme became final under the original  Act  of1939 as it stood before the 1953 amendment.  Obviously, withreference  to the facts of such a case, no argument  of	 thekind  that  has	 been  addressed to us	in  the	 other	fourpetitions was available.  In  the result, therefore, all the five petitions must  bedismissed with costs.62