PETITIONER:RANJIT SINGH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF PUNJABDATE OF JUDGMENT:21/04/1959BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1959 AIR  843		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 727ACT:Criminal  Trial-Perjury-False statement	 in  affidavit-Affi-davit  affirmed	 to  the best  of  knowledge  and  belief-Noobligation  to	file affidavit-Offence, if  made  out-IndianPenal Code, 1860 (XLV of 1860), ss. 191 and 193.HEADNOTE:A  habeas  corpus  application was made to  the	 High  Courtalleging that one S had been illegally arrested and kept  inunlawful  custody without any charge being made against	 himand without obtaining remand from a Magistrate.	 By way of areturn	the  appellant, a sub-Inspector of Police,  filed  afalse  affidavit controverting the allegations made  in	 theapplication.  He was prosecuted and convicted under s.	193,Indian Penal Code.  The appellant challenged his  convictionon  the grounds that: (i) as he was not bound under the	 lawto file an affidavit, the case did not fall under s. 191  ofthe Indian Penal Code and he could not be convicted under s.193 ; and (ii) the affidavit having been affirmed as true tothe  best  of the knowledge and belief of the  appellant  itcould  not be said which part was true to his knowledge	 andwhich to his belief.Held that, the appellant was rightly convicted.	 It was	 notnecessary for the application of s. 191 of the Indian  PenalCode that the accused should be bound under the law to	makean  affidavit.	If he chose to me one and bound	 himself  onoath  to state the truth he was liable under s. 193  Of	 theCode  if e made a false statement and it was no	 defence  tosay  that he was not bound to enter the witness-box or	makean affidavit.  In the present case it was necessary for	 theappellant to file an affidavit as he was bound to place	 thefacts and circumstances justifying728the  detention	which could only be done  by  an  affidavit.Ordinarily,  where  the	 detention is under  orders  of	 thedetaining authority in exercise of his plenary powers or  ofa  Court  an affidavit may not be necessary  in	 making	 thereturn	but  where it becomes necessary	 for  the  detainingauthority  to justify its action by disclosing facts it	 hasto file an affidavit.Held,  further,	 that explanation 2 to S. 191  of  the	Codebrings	a  false  statement affirmed to the  belief  of	 theaccused also within the mischief of s. 191 and thus makes itpunishable under s. 193 of the Code.Emperor	 v.  Lachmi  Narain, I. L. R. 1947  All.  155,	dis-approved.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 19  of1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedMarch  7, 1956, of the former PEPSU High Court	in  CriminalRevision  No.  45 of 1956, arising out of the  judgment	 andorder  dated February 22, 1956, of the	Additional  SessionsJudge, Patiala, in Criminal Appeal No. 175/36 of 1955-56.Pritam Singh Safe&, for the appellant.N. S. Bindra and T. M. Sen, for the respondent.1959.  April 21.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered,byKAPUR,	J.-This	 is an appeal by special leave	against	 thejudgment  and  order of the High Court of  PEPSU  passed  inrevision'.  The appellant was a sub-Inspector of Police	 whoat the relevant time was the Station House Officer in-chargeShehna police station in the erstwhile PEPSU State.  He	 wasconvicted under s. 193, Indian Penal Code, by a First  ClassMagistrate  and his appeal to the Sessions  Judge,  Patiala,was dismissed except as to sentence.  He took a revision  tothe PEPSU High Court but that was alsodismissed.This  appeal has arisen in the following circumstances:	 OneSurjit	Singh,	s/o Risaldar Waryam Singh, was	arrested  onSeptember 25, 1953, at Barnala in PEPSU State by the  PoliceInspector  Jaswant  Singh.  He was kept in  the	 lock-up  atBarnala and on the following day his custody was handed overto the appellant and he was taken to Shehna and was kept  incustody-it729is not clear under what section-in the police station  lock-up  at Shehna.	Surjit Singh was there kept in custody	fromSeptember 26, 1953, till October 10, 1953, when at about  10p.m.,  he  was	surreptitiously removed	 to  Police  StationDialpur and then to Police Post Hamirgarh and from there wastaken  to Police Station Baga Purana in Ferozepur  District,of  the	 then Punjab.  An application under s.	491  of	 theCriminal   Procedure  Code  and	 under	Art.  226   of	 theConstitution  was  made	 for a writ  of	 Habeas	 Corpus	 andMandamus  in the High Court of PEPSU.  In that	petition  itwas  alleged  that Surjit Singh was being kept	in  unlawfulcustody without any charge being made and without  obtaininga  remand by a Magistrate.  In reply to this,  an  affidavitdated  October	13, 1953, was filed by the  appel.  lant  inwhich  he  stated  that Surjit Singh  had  association	withnotorious  dacoits; that he, the appellant, had never  takenhim into custody at any time; that the said Surjit Singh wasabsconding  and had not been arrested in spite of  the	bestefforts of the police; that at the time of the making of theaffidavit he was not in the appellant's custody and that  itwas   incorrect	 that  Inspector  Jaswant  Singh  had	everentrusted  Surjit  Singh to his (appellant's)  custody.	  Healso stated that no petition had been brought to him nor hadhe  received any telegram in connection with the custody  ofSurjit Singh.  This affidavit was affirmed as follows:-" I solemnly affirm that the facts stated from paras Nos.  Ito  7  are true to the best of my knowledge and	 belief	 andnothing	 which is relevant to this case has been  kept	backfrom this Hon'ble Court ".As  both  the parties admitted before the  High	 Court	thatSurjit	Singh  was not in the custody of the  appellant	 thepetition was dismissed.	 On November 9, 1953, the brother ofSurjit	Singh  made an application under  s.  476,  CriminalProcedure  Code,  for the prosecution of  Inspector  JaswantSingh  and  the appellant for perjury under s.	193,  IndianPenal  Code, in that they had filed false affidavits.	Thismatter was heard by another learned Judge of that Court	 whoordered the92730prosecution  of the appellant and directed the Registrar  ofthe High Court to file a complaint which was filed.The  complaint	was taken cognizance of by the	First  ClassMagistrate  at	Patiala	 who  convicted	 the  appellant	 andsentenced him to nine months' imprisonment and a fine of Rs.300/- and in default to undergo simple imprisonment for	 twomonths.	 The appellant took an appeal to the Sessions Judge,Patiala,  who confirmed the order of conviction but  reducedthe sentence to one of three months' simple imprisonment anda  fine	 of  Rs.  50  and  in  default	one  month's  simpleimprisonment, a revision against this order was dismissed inlimine	by  the Chief Justice although he gave	reasons	 fordismissing  it.	 The appellant then obtained  special  leavefrom this Court.On  behalf of the appellant the first contention raised	 wasthat  the appellant was not bound to file an  affidavit	 andtherefore  he  could not be convicted under s.	193,  IndianPenal  Code,  because his case did not fall  under  s.	191,Indian	Penal Code.  In support of his contention he  reliedupon  the  Rules  of the PEPSU High  Court  framed  for	 thepurpose	 of  proceedings  under	 Art.  226  and	 s.  491(2),Criminal Procedure Code, for the issuing of writs of  HabeasCorpus.	  He also referred to the Rules made by	 that  Courtfor  the  issuing  of writs of	Mandamus,  Prohibition,	 QuoWarranto  and Certiorari under Art. 226 and  submitted	thatthere  was no Rule in the former, i.e., for writ  of  HabeasCorpus	requiring a return to be made on behalf of the	res-pondent	 to  be sup-ported by an affidavit  whereas  in	 thelatter, i.e., issuing of writs of Mandamus etc. an affidavitwas necessary and therefore it was submitted that s. 191 wasinapplicable.	Rule  2 of the Rules of the  Court  requiredthat  when a Judge was of the opinion that prima facie	casehad  been made out for granting the application a rule	nisiwas to issue calling upon the person or persons against whomthe order was sought, to appear before the Court and to showcause  why  such an order should not be made.  As  has	beenpointed out in Greene v. Home Secretary (1) which was a caseunder Reg. 18-B of the Defence of the(1)  [1942] A.C. 284, 302.731Realm  Act  the whole object of proceedings for	 a  writ  ofHabeas	Corpus is to make them expeditious, to keep them  asfree  from  technicality  as possible and to  keep  them  assimple	as  possible.  " The incalculable  value  of  HabeasCorpus is that it enables the immediate determination of theright  to  the appellant's freedom "  (Lord  Wright).	Whenthere is no question of fact to be examined or determined noaffidavit  is needed.  As soon as there emerges a fact	intowhich the Court feels it should enquire the necessity for anaffidavit  arises.   Ordinarily	 an  affidavit	may  not  benecessary  in  making the return if the detention  is  underorders of the detaining authority in exercise of its plenarydiscretion as in Liversidge v. Anderson (1) and in  Greene'scase  (2)  or  a person is detained under the  orders  of  aCourt.	But where the detention is, as it was in the presentcase,  it becomes necessary for the detaining  authority  tojustify	 its action by disclosing facts which would show  tothe satisfaction of the Court that the custody is not impro-per.   Where  the prisoner says " I do not know why  I	havebeen  detained,	 I  have  done no wrong ",  it	is  for	 thedetaining authority to justify the custody.  When issues  offact  are raised and the actions of the police officers,  asin the present case, are expressly challenged and facts	 areset  out  which	 if  unrebutted	 and  unexplained  would  besufficient  for	 the  writ to issue,  an  affidavit  becomesnecessary.  It cannot be said therefore that in the  presentcase the appellant was not legally bound to place facts	 andcircumstances  before the Court to justify the detention  ofSurjit Singh and, this could be done by an affidavit.Section	 4  of	the Oaths Act lays  down  the  authority  toadminister  oaths  and affirmations and	 it  prescribes	 thecourts and persons authorised to administer by themselves orby  their  officers  empowered	in  that  behalf  oaths	 andaffirmations  in discharge of the duties or in	exercise  ofthe  powers imposed upon them and they are, all	 courts	 andpersons	 having	 by law the authority to  receive  evidence.Section	  5  prescribes	 the  persons  by  whom	  oaths	  oraffirmations must be(1) [1942] A.C. 206.(2) [1942] A.C. 284, 302.732made and they include all witnesses, i. e., all persons who'may  lawfully be required to give evidence by or before	 anycourt.	 These two sections show that the High Court or	 itsofficers  were authorised to administer the oath and as	 theappellant  was	stating facts as evidence  before  the	HighCourt  he had to make the oath or affirmation and was  boundto  state  the	truth.	Section 14 of that  Act	 is  in	 thefollowing words:S.   14.  Every person giving evidence on any subject beforeany  Court or person hereby authorised to  administer  oathsand  affirmations shall be bound to state the truth on	suchsubject ".As  the appellant was giving evidence on his own  behalf  inthat he was denying the allegation made in the affidavit  ofthe brother of Surjit Singh he was bound to state the  truthon  the subject on which he was making the  statement.	 Thecontention  therefore that under s. 191 of the Indian  PenalCode the relevant portion of which is:S.   191.  " Whoever being legally bound by an oath or by anexpress provision of law to state the truth .........  makesany  statement which is false and which he either  knows  orbelieves to be false or does not believe to be true, is saidto give-false evidence " the appellant was not legally boundby  oath  to state the truth cannot be	supported.   On	 theother hand at the stage of the proceedings in the High Courtwhere  it  was	being alleged that Surjit  Singh  was  beingdetained by the appellant illegally it was necessary for theappellant  to  make  an affidavit in  making  a	 return	 andtherefore if the statement is false, as it has been found tobe, then he has committed an offence under s. 193.The  opening words of s. 191 whoever being legally bound  byan  oath  or  by an express provision of law  to  state	 thetruth............ do not support the submission that a	man,who is not bound under the law to make an affidavit, can, ifhe   does  make	 one,  deliberately  refrain  from   statingtruthfully  the facts which are within his knowledge,.	 Themeaning of these words is that whenever in a court of law  aperson binds himself on oath to state the truth he is  boundto state the733truth and he cannot be heard to say that he should not	havegone  into  the	 witness-box  or should	 not  have  made  anaffidavit  and	therefore  the	submission  that  any  falsestatement  which  he had made after taking the oath  is	 notcovered	 by  the words of s. 191, India Penal Code,  is	 notsupportable.   Whenever a man makes a statement in court  onoath  he is bound to state the truth and if he does not,  hemakes himself liable under the provisions of s. 193.  It  isno  defence  to	 say  that he was not  bound  to  enter	 thewitness-box.   A defendant or even a plaintiff is not  boundto go into the witness-box but if either of them chooses  todo  so	he  cannot, after he has taken the oath	 to  make  atruthful  statement, state anything which is false.   Indeedthe very sanctity of the oath re-quires that a person put onoath  must state the truth.  In our opinion this  contentionis wholly devoid of force and must be repelled.It  was	 then  contended that the officer  before  whom	 theappellant  swore the affidavit, i. e., the Deputy  Registrarof the High Court of PEPSU was not authorised to  administeroaths.	 That officer as a witness for the  prosecution	 hasstated	that he could administer an oath and therefore	thiscontention  of the appellant is also without any  force	 andmust be repelled.It was also argued that the affidavit filed by the appellantwas  affirmed  as being true to the best  of  knowledge	 andbelief	and therefore it could not be said as to which	partwas  true  to  the appellant's knowledge and  which  to	 hisbelief.	  We  have read the affidavit which  consists  of  7paragraphs  and each paragraph relates to affirmation  of  afact  which,  if true, could only be so to  the	 appellant'sknowledge.   But even belief would fall under Explanation  2to s. 191 which is as under:Explanation  2	to s. 191.  " A false statement	 as  to	 thebelief of the person attesting is within the meaning of thissection, and a person may be guilty of giving false evidenceby  stating  that  he believes a thing	which  he  does	 notbelieve,  as well as by stating that he knows a thing  whichhe does not know734The  appellant relied upon a judgment of the Allahabad	HighCourt in Emperor v. Lachmi Narain (1).	But unless there wassomething  peculiar in the facts of that case it  cannot  beconsidered  to	be  good law.  It does not  even  take	intoconsideration Explanation 2 of S. 191.Lastly	it  was	 urged that the	 procedure  adopted  by	 theMagistrate was erroneous in that he did not hold an  enquiryas required under ss. 200 and 202, Criminal Procedure  Code,the former of which is expressly mentioned in sub-section  2of  s.	476, Criminal Procedure Code.	That  contention  isequally	 untenable because under s. 200, proviso (aa) it  isnot necessary for a Magistrate when a complaint is made by acourt  to examine the complainant and neither s. 200 nor  s.202 requires a preliminary enquiry before the Magistrate canassume	jurisdiction  to issue process	against	 the  personcomplained against.In our opinion the appellant has been rightly convicted	 andwe would therefore dismiss this appeal.	   Appeal dismissed.