PETITIONER:MOHAMMAD GHOUSE	Vs.RESPONDENT:STATE OF ANDHRADATE OF JUDGMENT:29/11/1956BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  246		  1957 SCR  414ACT:Government  Servant-judicial  Officer-Disciplinary  Proceed-ings-Enquiry  into charges-jurisdiction of the	High  Court-order of suspension Pending final orders by the	 Government-Power  of  the High Court-Constitution of India,  Art.	3II-Madras	Civil Services (Classification, Control and  Appeal)Rules,	Yr.  13, I7(e)-Madras Civil  Services  (DisciplinaryProceedings  Tribunal)	Rules, 1948  Andhra  Civil  Services(Disciplinary  Proceedings Tribunal) Rules, 1953, r.  4	 (I)(a).HEADNOTE:The   appellant	 was  at  the  relevant	 dates	 posted	  asSubordinate  Judge at Masulipatam and  Amalapuram.   Chargeswere made against him of bribery and serious  irregularitiesin the discharge of official duties, and they were  enquiredinto by one of the judges of the Madras High Court who	senthis  reports on August 2o, ,953, and November Io,  953.	  Onthe  basis of the reports the High Court decided on  January25,  1954,  that  the appellant	 should	 be  dismissed	fromservice on the charge of bribery and removed from service onthe  charge  of	 irregularities, and on	 January  28,  1954,placed	 him  on  suspension  until  further  orders.	 Theappellant  moved the High Court under Art. 226 of  the	Con-stitution  of India for quashing the order of suspension  onthe  ground  (1) that under r. 4(I)(a) of the  Andhra  CivilServices (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Rules, 1953, anenquiry into the415conduct of a Government servant drawing a monthly salary  ofRs.  15o  and above could be made only by a Tribunal  to  beappointed by the Government, and that as the rule came into,effect	from October 1, 1953, the order of the	Madras	HighCourt dated January 28, 1954, was without jurisdiction,	 and(2)  that  the	order  was repugnant  to  Art.	31I  of	 theConstitution  of  India.   The	High  Court  dismissed	 theapplication and on appeal against the judgment.Held:(1) that in view of the amendment of r. 4 Of the AndhraCivil  Services (Disciplinary Proceedings  Tribunal)  Rules,1953,  on  April  II,  955,  excluding,	 with  retrospectiveeffect,	 the  jurisdiction  of the Tribunal  in	 respect  ofenquiries  into	 the conduct of the judicial  officers,	 theorder  of the Madras High Court dated January 28, 1954,	 wasnot open to attack.(2)that	 an  order  of suspension pending  final  orders  isneither	 one of dismissal nor of removal of  service  withinArt. 311 of the Constitution.(3)that	  under	  r.  13  of  the  Madras   Civil   Services(Classification,  Control and Appeal) Rules, the High  Courthad  the  power to impose suspension  pending  enquiry	intograve charges underr.   17(e)  against  the  Members  of  the  State   judicialService.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Civil AppealNo. 133 of 1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedNovember 19,1954, of the Andhra High Court in Writ  PetitionNo. 342 of 1954. N.  C. Chatterji, M. S. K. Sastri and Sardar  Bahadur,	 forthe appellant.Porus  A. Mehta, T. V. R. Tatachari and T. M. Sen,  for	 therespondent.1956.  November 29.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyVENKATARAMA  AYYAR  J.-The appellant was  recruited  to	 theMadras	Provincial  Judicial Service as District  Munsif  in1935.  In 1949 he was promoted to the office of	 SubordinateJudge,	and on June 19, 1950, he was posted  as	 SubordinateJudge  of Masulipatnam, Krishna District.  Among  the  suitswhich  he tried were O.S. No. 95 of 1946 and O.S. No. 24  of1949, which were connected, and on July 27, 1950,  argumentswere  heard therein, and judgment reserved.  On	 August	 22,1950, while judgment was still pending, Lingam54416Sitarama Rao, who was the fifth defendant in both the suits,filed  an  application	in the High  Court  of	Madras	 fortransferring them to some other court on the ground that theappellant was attempting through his brother to obtain bribefrom  the parties, and on this application, the	 High  Courtpassed	an order on the same date, staying the	delivery  ofjudgment.  The suits themselves were eventually	 transferredto  the court of the Subordinate Judge of Gudivada, and	 theappellant was also transferred on September 16, 1950, to theSubordinate  Court of Amalapuram in East Godavari  District.Thereafter,  the High Court started investigation  into	 theallegations made in the affidavit in the stay petition,	 andas  a  result  of the enquiries and  reports  received,	 thefollowing  charge was framed against the appellant on  April2, 1953:"  That	 you  in or about August 1950  being  at  that	timeAdditional   Sub-Judge,	  Masulipatnam,	  entered   into   aconspiracy with your brother Md.  Riazuddin alias Basha	 forthe  purpose of obtaining a bribe from the parties  to	O.S.Nos. 24/49 and 95/46 on the file of your Court, and that, inpursuance  of  the conspiracy, the said	 Md.   Riazuddin  atVijayawada  attempted  between 11 -8-1950 and  13-8-1950  toobtain	a bribe from Lingam Satya Narayana Rao and  his	 sonLingam	Seetarama Rao (the 5th defendant in both  the  abovesuits).You are hereby required within 15 days of the receipt by youof this proceeding (i) to submit a written statement of yourdefence and to show cause why disciplinary action should notbe taken against you in respect of the above charge,and  (ii) to state whether you desire an oral enquiry to  beheld or only to be heard in person."The  appellant filed his written statement in answer to	 thecharge on June 22, 1953.Meantime,  complaints  had also been received  by  the	HighCourt	 that	the   appellant	  had	committed    seriousirregularities	in the discharge of his official  duties  inthe  Sub-Court,	 Amalapuram,  such as that  he	had  delayeddelivering  judgments  in  the	suits  and  appeals  for  anunreasonable  time,  that he had made false returns  to	 theDistrict Court, and that to cover his417defaults,  he had altered the records of the court so as  tobe consistent with those returns.  Charges were framed	withreference  to these irregularities on January  15,1953,	 andfurther	 charges relating to the same matter were framed  onMay  6,	 1953, to all of which he filed his  explanation  onJune 22, 1953.One  of the Judges of the High Court of Madras,	 BalakrishnaAyyar,	J., was deputed to enquire into these  charges,	 andafter making an elaborate enquiry in which several witnessesincluding  the appellant were examined, he sent a report  onOctober	 20,  1953, that the charge of corruption  was	madeout, and he concluded as follows:"  Therefore,  I find the charge  proved.   What  punishmentshould be imposed on Mr. Ghouse can be decided only after hehas  been  heard in that regard, but, at this  stage,  I  aminclined  to take the view that he should be dismissed	fromservice."With  reference	 to  the charges  of  irregularities,  etc.,Balakrishna  Ayyar J. submitted his report on  November	 10,1953,  in  which  also he found that the  charges  were	 allsubstantially established, and he concluded as follows:"In  the  result, I find Mr. Ghouse guilty  of	the  chargesframed to the extent already indicated.In  respect  of another charge against Mr.  Ghouse,  that  Ienquired  into	I  expressed  the view	that  he  should  bedismissed  from	 service.   In	view  of  that	no   furtherrecommendation for punishment in respect of these charges isnecessary.  Certain observations, however, may not be out oforder.	 A  judicial officer who delays	 judgments,  in	 theabsence	 of special or extenuating circumstances,  furnishesevidence  of his own incompetence.  But a  judicial  officerwho  systematically sends false returns is guilty  of  moralturpitude.   If	 in addition 'he instructs  members  of	 hisoffice to make false entries-in the records of the court  hewould be guilty of even more blameworthy conduct.  One wouldhardly desire to keep such persons in service."These reports were considered at a meeting of the Judges  ofthe  Madras High Court on January 25,1954, and they  decidedthat "the proper punishment to be418awarded	 to  the officer as regards the two counts  are	 (1)regarding  the	first  charge  of  bribery,  dismissal	fromservice	 and  (2)  regarding the second	 charge	 of  variousdelinquencies,	such  as delaying judgments,  etc.,  removalfrom  service."	 Then they passed an order  on	January	 28,1954,  placing	the appellant on  suspension  until  furtherorders, and the same was communicated to him on January	 30,1954.On April 28, 1954, the appellant filed in the High Court  ofMadras a petition under Art. 226 of the Constitution, for  awrit  quashing	the order of suspension	 dated	January	 28,1954,  on the grounds, firstly, that under the Andhra  CivilServices  (Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal)  Rules,  1953,which had been published by the Andhra Government on October22, 1953, with effect from October 1, 1953, enquiry into theconduct	 of Government servants on a monthly salary  of	 Rs.150 and above could be held only by a Tribunal to which	 theGovernment  might refer the same, and that,  therefore,	 theproceedings  of	 the High Court of Madras after	 October  1,1953,  culminating in the order of suspension dated  January28, 1954, were without jurisdiction, and secondly, that	 theorder  in question was void, as it was in  contravention  ofArt. 311 of the Constitution.  It must be mentioned that theState of Andhra had come into existence on October 1,  1953,but  that  the	High  Court  of	 Madras	 continued  to	havejurisdiction over the Andhra State until July, 1954, when  aseparate  High	Court was established  therefor.   The	writpetition  which was pending in the High Court of Madras	 wasthen transferred to the Andhra High Court.At  the	 hearing, the only contention that would  appear  tohave been pressed by the appellant was that by reason of theAndhra	Civil Services (Disciplinary  Proceedings  Tribunal)Rules,	1953, coming into force on October 1, 1953,  it	 wasonly a Tribunal as provided in Rule 4 (1) (a) of those Rulesthat   could  enquire  into  the  charges,  and	  that	 theproceedings  in the High Court of Madras subsequent  theretowere  without jurisdiction.  In rejecting  this	 contention,the  learned  Judge.%  observed that though Rule  4  of	 theAndhra Civil Services Rules differed in some respects419from  the  corresponding Rule of the Madras  Civil  ServicesRules,	1948,  the  differences	 were  of  an  unsubstantialcharacter,  and were due more to inexpert" drafting than  toany  deliberate intention to effect a change in	 the  MadrasRules.	 They further held that if the Rule in question	 wasintended  to  affect the jurisdiction of the High  Court  tohold  an enquiry into the conduct of a Subordinate  judicialofficer,  it would be in contravention of Arts. 227 and	 235of  the	 Constitution, which vested in the  High  Court	 thecontrol and: superintendence of all the Courts in the State.In  the result, they dismissed the application.	 The  matternow comes before this Court in appeal under Art. 136 of	 theConstitution.Before us, the appellant pressed both the grounds which wereraised	by  him in his application under Art. 226.   On	 thequestion  whether  by reason of the  Andhra  Civil  ServicesRules  coming  into operation with effect  from	 October  1,1953,  the  High Court had ceased to  have  jurisdiction  toproceed	 with the matter, it is necessary first to refer  tothe  relevant  Rules.  Rule 4 of the Madras  Civil  Services(Disciplinary  Proceedings Tribunal) Rules, 1948, which	 wasthe Rule in force when the enquiry against the appellant wasstarted, runs as follows:4." The Government may, subject to the provisions of rule 5,refer to the Tribunal:-(a)Cases  relating  to	Government  servants  on  a  monthlysalary.	 of  Rs.  150  and  above,  in	respect	 of  mattersinvolving corruption on the part of such Government servantsin the discharge of their official duties.(b)All	appeals to the Government from	Government  servantsagainst	 disciplinary orders passed by heads of	 departmentsand  other competent authorities on charges  of	 corruption,and(c)any	other  case or class of cases which  the  Governmentconsider, should be dealt with by the Tribunal.Provided  that cases arising in the Judicial Department	 andagainst	 Government  servants in the  subordinate  ranks  ofpolice forces of the rank of420Sub-Inspector  and  below  shall  not  be  referred  to	 theTribunal.  "  The  corresponding  Rule  in	the  Andhra  Civil  Services(Disciplinary Proceedings Tribunal) Rules, 1953, which	cameinto operation from October 1, 1953, is asfollows :4  (1) " The Government shall, subject to the provisions  ofrule 5, refer the following cases to the Tribu-nal, namely:-(a)  Cases  relating  to Government servants  on  a  monthlysalary of Rs. 150 and above in respect of matters  involvingcorruption  on the part of such Government servants  in	 thedischarge of their officialduties	and(b)  All  appeals  or petitions to  the	 Government  againstorders passed on charges of corruption and all	disciplinarycases in which the Government propose to revise the originalorders passed on such charges:Provided that it shall not be necessary to consultthe Tribunal:(i)  in any case in which the Tribunal has, at any  previousstage, given advice in regard to the order to be passed	 andno fresh question has there-after arisen for  determination,or,(ii) where  the Government propose to pass orders  rejectingsuch appeal or petition.(2)  The  Government may, subject to the provisions of	rule5,  also  refer to the Tribunal any other case or  class  ofcases  which,  they  consider should be dealt  with  by	 theTribunal:Provided  that the following cases shall not be referred  tothe Tribunal namely:-(i)  Cases arising in the Judicial Department;(ii) Cases  arising against the Government servants  in	 thesubordinate ranks of the 'police forces of the rank of	Sub-Inspector  and	below,	unless the cases  are  against	themtogether with officers of higher ranks.	 "The  argument  of the appellant is that	 whereas  under	 theproviso	 to  Rule  4 of the  Madras  Civil  Services  Rules,enquiries against subordinate judicial officers could not bereferred to a Tribunal, under Rule 4 (1) (a)421of the Andhra Civil Services Rules it was obligatory on	 thepart   of  the	Government  to	refer  the  cases  of	all.Government servants drawing a monthly salary of' Rs. 150 andabove to a Tribunal.  According to the appellant, the resultof  this  change  was that such enquiry as  was	 held  afterOctober 1, 1953, by the High Court and all orders passed  byit thereafter were bad, and that he had a right to have	 hiscase   referred	 to  and  determined  by  the  Tribunal	  inaccordance  with  Rule	4  (1) (a).   There  has  been	someargument  before us as to whether the concluding proviso  inRule  4	 of the Andhra Civil Services Rules  qualifies	bothsubrules  (1) and (2) or only sub-rule (2).  While,  on	 theone hand, there is force in the contention of the  appellantthat  having regard to its setting, the proviso should	moreproperly be read as qualifying subrule (2), we are  inclinedto  agree  with the learned Judges of the High	Court  that,read  as  a whole, the Rule does not show  an  intention  todepart	from  the procedure laid down in  the  Madras  CivilServices  Rules.   The point, however, is  one	of  academicinterest,  as  the Rule in question  has  subsequently	beenamended	 by  G.	 0. No. 938 dated April	 11,  1955,  and  itexpressly  provides  that the amendment shall be  deemed  tohave come into force on October 1, 1953.  That amendment  isas follows:"  In rule 4 of the said rules, the proviso occurring  aftersub-rule  (2)  shall be omitted, and in	 lieu  thereof,	 thefollowing    sub-rule	shall	be   inserted,	  namely:(3)  Notwithstanding  anything contained in subrule  (1)  orsub-rule  (2), the following cases shall not be referred  tothe Tribunal, namely:(i)  cases arising in the Judicial Department; and(ii) 'cases  arising  against  Government  servants  in	 thesubordinate  ranks of the Police forces of the rank of	Sub-Inspector  and	below,	unless the cases  are  against	themtogether with officers of higher ranks.	 "By   reason   of   this	 amendment,   which   is   expresslyretrospective in character, the main ground of objection  onwhich  the application of the appellant was founded,  is  nolonger	tenable.   In view of this  conclusion,	 it  becomesunnecessary.to consider the contention422of  the respondent that Rule 4 of the Andhra Civil  ServicesRules could not, in any event, apply to enquiries which	 hadbeen validly initiated previously thereto.It was next contended on behalf of the appellant that as theauthority  which  appointed  him was  the  Governor  of	 theProvince,  it was only that authority that could dismiss  orremove	him from service, and that the order  of  suspensionmade  by  the  High  Court  on	January	 28,  1954,  was  incontravention  of Art. 311 of the Constitution, and was,  inconsequence,  bad.  This contention does not appear to	havebeen  pressed in the High Court, and is,  moreover,  withoutsubstance.  The facts are that Balakrishna Ayyar J. sent hisreport	 on  the  enquiry  into	 the  charges  against	 theappellant,  and	 expressed  his opinion that  he  should  bedismissed or removed from service.  The High Court  approvedof  it, and passed an order on January 28, 1954,  suspendinghim  until further orders.  The report was then sent to	 theGovernment  for action, and, in fact, the Andhra  Governmenthas issued a notice to the appellant on August 12, 1954,  toshow  cause why he should not be dismissed or  removed	fromservice.   Thus, it is the appropriate authority under	Art.311 that proposes to take action against the appellant,	 andit  is for that authority to pass the ultimate order in	 thematter.	  The order passed by the High Court on January	 28,1954,  is merely one of suspension pending final  orders  bythe  Government,  and  such  an	 order	is  neither  one  ofdismissal nor of removal from service within Art. 311 of theConstitution.  It was also argued that the High Court had noauthority  under  the rules to suspend	a  judicial  officerpending	 final orders of the Government.  But under Rule  13of  the Madras Civil Services (Classification,	Control	 andAppeal) Rules, it is the High Court of Judicature at  Madrasthat  is  constituted  as the  authority  which	 may  imposesuspension  pending  enquiry into grave charges	 under	rule17(e)  against	the Members of the State  Judicial  Service.The  order in question, therefore, falls  within-this  rule,and is perfectly intra vires.423It  was lastly contended for the appellant that even if	 theHigh Court could hold a preliminary enquiry into the conductof a judicial officer, it had no jurisdiction to decide	 thematter finally, that the findings given by Balakrishna AyyarJ.  should not be held to conclude the question against	 theappellant, and that the Government was bound to hold a freshenquiry and decide for itself whether the charges were well-founded.  No such question was raised in the petition or  inthe High Court, and we must, therefore, decline to entertainit.In the result, the appeal is dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.