PETITIONER:KALUA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESHDATE OF JUDGMENT:21/11/1956BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERJAGANNADHADAS, B.MENON, P. GOVINDACITATION: 1958 AIR  180		  1957 SCR  187ACT:Criminal  Trial-Murdey-Circumstantial  evidence-Opinion	  offire-arms expert-Whether conclusive.HEADNOTE:One  Daya Ram had been murdered by shooting with  a  countrymade   pistol.	 The  circumstantial  evidence	 establishedagainst	 the appellant was (1) that he had a motive for	 themurder, (2) that three days before the murder the  appellanthad  held  out a threat to murder the deceased, (3)  that  acartridge Ex.  I was found near the cot of the deceased, and(4)  that the appellant produced a country made	 pistol	 Ex.III  from  his house in circumstances which  clearly  showedthat he alone could have known of its existence there.	 Thefire-arms  expert  examined  the recovered  pistol  and	 thecartridge  and	after  making scientific tests	was  of	 thedefinite  opinion that the cartridge Ex.  I had	 been  firedfrom the pistol Ex.  III :Held, that the opinion of the fire-arms expert	conclusivelyproved	that  the cartridge Ex.	 I had been fired  from	 thepistol Ex. III.The circumstantial evidence was sufficient to establish	 theguilt of the appellant.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 135  of1956.188Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedNovember 25, 1955, of the Allahabad High Court, in  CriminalAppeal	No. 702 of 1955 and Referred No. 77 of 1955  arisingout  of	 the judgment and order dated May 17, 1955,  of	 theCourt of Sessions Judge, at Moradavad in Sessions Trial	 No.29 of 1955.P.   S. Safeer, for the appellant.G.   C. Mathur and C. P. Lal, for the respondent.1956.  November 21.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyIMAM J.-The appellant was sentenced to death for the  marderof Daya Ram by shooting him with a country made pistol.	  Hewas also convicted for being in possession of an  unlicensedfirearm	 under	the  Arms  Act	for  which  offence  he	 wassentenced  to two years rigorous imprisonment.	He  appealedto the High Court of Allahabad, but his appeal was dismissedand  the conviction and sentence was affirmed.	Against	 thedecision of the Allahabad High Court the appellant  obtainedspecial leave to appeal to this Court.According  to the prosecution, the occurrence took place  atabout  midnight of July 4, 1954, when Daya Ram was  sleepingon  a  cot  on a platform.  Near him  were  sleeping  Gokul,Doongar and Jai Singh, while two women Ratto and Bhuri sleptin  a  room to the north of the platform and  adjoining	 it.The  report  of	 the  shot  fired  woke	 up  these   people.According  to them, they saw the appellant  running  towardsthe east.  He was accompanied by three others who were armedwith  lathis.  Daya Ram died almost instantaneously  as	 theresult	of the injuries on his chest and stomach from  wherepellets	 were  recovered  at the time  of  the	post  mortemexamination.   Daya Ram had been shot from a close  distancebecause	 the  skin was charred over the entire area  of	 thewound.	Near the cot, on which he slept, a cartridge Ex.  I.was  found which was handed over to the Police Officer	whenhe  arrived for investigation.	A first	 information  reportwas lodged at the police station five miles away at 8-10  a.m. on July 5, 1954.			    189The  motive for the murder, as alleged by  the	prosecution,was that on the death of one Bhai Singh the appellant  hopedto  become  guardian  of  Ratto's  property,  who,  however,appointed  Daya	 Ram to take charge of	it.   The  appellantresented  this very much.  Three days before the  murder  ofDaya Ram there had been a quarrel between the appellant	 andhis  wife on the one side and Ratto and Bhuri on the  other.The  quarrel  arose  over an attempt  by  the  appellant  toconstruct a wall over Ratto's land.' The appellant uttered athreat	that  he would soon settle with the person  on	whomRatto was depending, that is to say, the deceased Daya	Ram.According  to the High Court, the defence did not  seriouslychallenge  these  allegations  and  the	 appellant   himselfadmitted  that	Ratto  wanted him to be turned	out  of	 hishouse.The  appellant was arrested on the night between July 5	 andJuly  6,  1954, at a village fourteen miles  away  from	 thevillage of "occurrence Dhakeri.	 On July 7, he informed	 theSub-Inspector that he was prepared to produce the pistol Ex.III.   The  SubInspector and the appellant went	 to  villageDhakeri	 and  Kartar Singh, Mahtab Singh  and  Khamani	wereinvited	 to  witness  the  events  that	 might	follow.	  Onreaching  the  appellant's house, which adjoins	 the  resid-ential house of Ratto, the appellant stated that the  pistolEx.   III had been concealed by him in a corn-bin.   From  asecret	place he took out a key and opened the lock  of	 hishouse  with  it.   He then took	 the  SubInspector  and	 thewitnesses to a mud corn-bin inside his house, which appearedto be freshly plastered at one place.  The appellant removedthe  plaster  at  this place and from inside  took  out	 thecountry made 12bore pistol Ex.	III, and three live  12-borecartridges.  The cartridge Ex.	I, which was found near	 thecot of Daya Ram, and the pistol Ex.  III were sent to  ShyamNarain,	 a Deputy Superintendent of Police, who is ,a  fire-arms expert of the C. I. D. of Uttar Pradesh Government.  Hemade  scientific  tests.  He came to the conclusion  as	 theresult	of the various tests made by him that the  cartridgeEx, I was fired from the pistol Ex.  III and no other  fire-arm.190While the Sessions Judge believed the testimony of the	eye-witnesses,  the learned Judges of the.	High Court  were  ofthe opinion that they were unable to accept the assertion ofthe eye-witnesses that they actually saw the appellant	witha  pistol by the bedside of the deceased.  The	High  Court,however, relied upon the circumstantial evidence in the casein  upholding  the conviction of the appellant.	  There	 wasmotive	for the crime and a few days before the killing	 of.Daya  Ram the appellant had held out a threat  against	him.The  appellant	was arrested fourteen miles  away  from	 hisvillage	 which	is the place of occurrence.  He	 produced  apistol Ex.III from his house in circumstances which  clearlyshowed that he only could have known of its existence there.The opinion of the fire-arms expert clearly established thatthe  cartridge	Ex. 1, found near the cot of Daya  Ram,	 wasfired  with the pistol Ex.  III produced -by the  appellant.All  these circumstances, in the opinion of the High  Court,left  no  doubt in the minds of the learned Judges  of	thatCourt  that the appellant murdered Daya Ram by shooting	 himwith his pistol.The  learned  Advocate	for the	 appellant  urged  that	 theappellant could not have placed the pistol in his house	 andit  must have been planted there by someone because none  ofthe  witnesses	stated that they had seen him going  to	 hishouse  after the murder and the appellant was certainly	 notfound  in  his	house  in the  morning.	  According  to	 thesituation  of  the  house of the  appellant  and  where	 thewitnesses  were	 immediately after the	occurrence,  it	 wasimpossible  for	 the  appellant to have	 entered  his  housewithout	 being	seen.  It was further  unlikely	 that  afterhaving committed the murder, the appellant, after having runaway,  would  return to his house.  Both the  Courts  below,however, found no reason to disbelieve the Sub-Inspector andthe witnesses that the appellant had produced the pistol Ex.III  from the corn-bin inside his house.  The appellant	 hadthe key of the house which was hidden in a secret place	 andthe  com-bin  was  itself freshly plastered  at	 one  place.These  circumstances  clearly  showed that no  one  but	 theappellant could have191known of the existence of the pistol in the corn-bin in	 hishouse.	As to whether the appellant could or.could not	havegone  to his house after the occurrence that is a matter  ofpure  speculation.  It does not appear that any witness	 wasasked  anything	 about it.  The High Court  found  that	 thewitnesses might have caught a glimpse of the people who werefast  disappearing from the scene but who had no  reasonableopportunity of marking their features.	In the confusion  ofthe occurrence the witnesses may not have observed where theculprits had disa speared except that they were seen runningtowards	 the east.  On the record, there is nothing to	showthat  to enter the appellant's house, after the	 occurrence,the  appellant had necessarily to go into his  house  withinthe  view  of  the witnesses.  It is  quite  unnecessary  toexamine	 this  matter  any  further  because  the   evidenceconcerning  the	 production of the pistol Ex.	III  by	 theappellant  from	 his  house  is'  clear	 and  reliable	and,therefore,  it is certain that the appellant did  enter	 hishouse after the occurrence without being seen by anyone.It  was next urged on behalf of the appellant,	that,it	 wasimpossible for a cartridge to have been near the cot of DayaRam,  because  after the shot had been fired  the  cartridgewould still remain in the barrel of the firearm.  This againis  pure speculation.  That the cartridge was  ejected	fromthe  fire-arm is certain.  Why it was ejected none can	say.It may be that the miscreant reloaded his weapon to meet anyemergency.  The evidence of the Sub-Inspector is clear	thaton his arrival at the place of occurrence the cartridge	 Ex.I  was handed over to him by the witness Khamani who  cannotbe  said  to be unfavorable to the  appellant.	 The  Courtsbelow  had no reason to disbelieve the evidence in the	casethat the cartridge Ex.	I was found near the cot of Daya Ramand we can find no extraordinary circumstance to justify  ussaying	that the Courts below took an erroneous view of	 theevidence.On  the	 facts	found there was a  motive  for	the  murder.Apparently,  for no good reason the appellant was not  foundat his house on the morning of July 5, but was192in a village fourteen miles away at the time of his  arrest.The appellant produced the pistol Ex.  III in  circumstancesclearly showing that he had deliberately kept it  concealed.We  have  no reason to doubt the evidence in  this  respect.The  real  question is, whether it is safe to act  upon	 theopinion	 of the fire-arms expert that the cartridge  Ex.   Iwas fired from the pistol Ex.  III produced by the appellantand   none   other,  because  without  that   evidence	 thecircumstantial evidence in the case would be insufficient toconvict	 the appellant of the crime of murder.	The  opinionof 'the fire-arms expert, based on the result of his  tests,does -not seem to have been challenged in  cross-examinationor  before the High Court.  If there is no reason  to  thinkthat there is any room for error in matters of this kind andit is safe to accept the opinion of the expert, then clearlyit is established that the cartridge Ex.  I, found near	 thecot of Daya Ram, was fired from the pistol Ex. III  producedby the appellant.  To satisfy ourselves we have looked	intothe  works  of some authors dealing with the marks  left  oncartridges  and	 shell	cases  by  fire-arms  in  order	  toascertain that there is no error in the opinion of the fire-arms  expert in the present case.  Kirk in his	book  "CrimeInvestigation" at page 346 states:"Fired	 cases	are  less  often  encountered  in   criminalinvestigation  than  are bullets, but when  found  they	 areusually	 of  greater significance because  they	 receive  atleast  as  clear  markings as do  bullets,  have  a  greatervariety of such markings, and are not ordinarily damaged  infiring...............................................The questions which may be asked as a result of finding suchmaterials  are	similar to those that require  answers	whenonly  bullets  are  located.  In the  ordinary	case,  quitedefinite answers can be given.	This is true both of shotgunshells	and of cartridge cases from pistols, revolvers,	 andrifles...........................  ..  In  general,  it	  ispossible  to  identify a certain firearm as having  fired  aparticular  shell  or cartridge.  It is	 often	possible  toidentify the type or make of gun' which fired it, though  inmany   instances   this	 must  be  tentative   or   probableidentification only."`			193After  :dealing with the marks left by breech-block,  firingpin  impressions, marks from extractors and ejectors,  marksdue  to	 expansion,  magazine marks  and  loading  mechanismmarks,he states,"Summarizing,  the cartridge or shell case us. ally  carriesmarkings which are quite distinctive of the gun in which thecharge is fired, and can be used for positive identificationof the latter.	Those marks arise from a variety of contactswith  various  parts  of the gun, an analysis  of  which  isuseful	in,  determining  the  type of	weapon	in  case  nosuspected gun is available ...................... Thus,	 therecovered shell or cartridge case is one of the most  usefultypes  of physical evidence which can be found	in  shootingcases."Soderman  and  O'Connel	 in  their  book  "Modern   CriminalInvestigation" also deal with the subject and they refer  tothe marks from the fire pin, the extractor, the. ejector andthe breech-block.  After referring to comparison being	madeof  the	 cartridge or shell fired from a  fire-arm  for	 thepurpose of test, they state at page 200,If they are in the same position in relation to one  anotherand  their general appearance is the same, one may  concludethat  they have been fired from a pistol of the	 same  make.An  absolute  conclusion  about the origin  of	the  shells,however,  can  be  reached only	 after	a  photomicrographicexamination  of	 the markings from the breech-block  on	 therear of the shell.............................Identification, with the aid of the enlargement, should	 notprove difficult.  The characteristic scratches can be easilyseen.  A photograph of the incriminating shell and one of  acomparison shell should be pasted side by side on cardboard,and  the characteristic marks should be recorded with  linesand ciphers, following the same method as that used in	the'identification of fingerprints."In  Taylor's book on Medical Jurisprudence,  Tenth  Edition,Vol. 1, at page 459, it is stated,"  It  is never safe to say that a cartridge  case  was	 notfired from a given pistol unless the marks are quite25194different, and a case which bears no marks at all may  quitewell  have  been  fired from the same pistol  as  one  whichleaves	well-defined marks.  In general, however, though  itis  unlikely  that -all marks will be equally  good,  it  isusually	 possible  to obtain definite information  from	 themarks  of  the firing-pin, extractor,  ejector,	 or  breech-block.	on the base or rim, or from grooves or scratches  onthe surface.  In weapons of the same manufacture, the  marksare of the same general nature, but in each weapon there areindividual  differences	 which	usually	 enable	 it  to	  bedefinitely identified."The  expert's evidence in this case shows that he had  firedfour  test cartridges from the pistol Ex.  III He found	 theindividual  characteristics  of	 the chamber  to  have	beenimpressed  upon the test cartridges Exs. 9 and 10  and	thatexactly identical markings were present on the paper tube ofthe  cartridge	Ex. 1. He made microphotographs of  some  ofthese  individual  marks on Exs. 1 and 10.   In	 giving	 hisreasons	 for his opinion, the fire-arms expert	stated	thatevery fire-arm has individual characteristics on its  breachface  striking pin and chamber.	 When a cartridge  is  firedgases.	are  generated	by the	combustion  of	the  powder,creating a pressure of 2 to 20 tons per square inch.   Underthe  effect of this pressure the cap and the paper  tube  ofthe cartridge cling firmly with the breach face striking pinand chamber and being of a softer matter the individualitiesof these parts are impressed upon them.	 By firing a  numberof test cartridges from a given fire-arm and comparing	themunder  a  microscope  with the evidence	 cartridge,  it	 candefinitely  be stated, if the marks are clear,	whether	 theevidence  cartridges had been fired or not from	 that  fire-arm.   It  seems to us that the fire-arms  expert  made	 thenecessary  tests and was careful -in what he did.  There  isno  good  reason for distrusting his opinion.	The  learnedJudges	of the High Court examined the micro-photographs  inquestion  and  were satisfied that there was no	 ground	 fordistrusting   the  evidence  of	 the  expert.	 They	wereaccordingly  justified in coming to the conclusion that	 thecartridge Ex. 1, found nor the cot of Dava Ram,195was fired from the pistol Ex.  III produced by the appellantfrom  his  house.   There can, therefore,  be  no  room	 forthinking,  in  the circumstances established in	 this  case,that  any one else other than the appellant might have	shotDaya  Ram.   He was, therefore, rightly	 convicted  for	 theoffence of murder.The appeal is accordingly dismissed.