PETITIONER:ASSOCIATED HOTELS OF INDIA LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:R. N. KAPOORDATE OF JUDGMENT:19/05/1959BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.SUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1262		  1960 SCR  (1) 368ACT:       Rent  Control-Application for standardisation of rent   Room       in  a hotel Meaning of Delhi and Ajmer-Merwaya Rent  Control       Act, 1947 (19 Of 1947), Ss. 2(b) and 7(1).HEADNOTE:       Section 2(b) of the Delhi and Ajmer-Merwara Rent Control Act       1947, provided as follows:-,       "  S. 2. In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant	 in       in the subject or context,-       (a).........................................................       (b) Premises' means any building or part of a building which       is,  or	is  intended to be, let separately  for	 use  as  a       residence   or	for  commercial	 use  or  for	any   other       purpose...... but does not include a room in a  dharamshala,       hotel or lodging house."       The respondent occupied two rooms in the appellant's  hotel,       described  as the Ladies' and Gents' Cloak Rooms,  where	 he       used  to	 carry	on his business	 as  a	hair-dresser.	The       document	 executed  by the parties purported to	be  one	 as       between	a licenser and licensee and provided,  inter  alia,       that  the respondent was to pay an annual rent of Rs.  9,600       in  four quarterly installments, which was later reduced	 to       Rs.  8,400  by  mutual agreement.  The  respondent  made	 an       application for standardisation of rent under s. 7(1) of the       Delhi and Ajmer-Merwara Rent Control Act, 1947, and the Rent       Controller of Delhi fixed the rent at Rs. 94 per month.	 On       appeal  by the appellant, the I District judge reversed	the       order  of the Rent Controller and dismissed the	application       holding	that  the  Act did not apply.  The  High  Court	 in       revision	 set  aside  the order of the  District	 judge	and       restored	 that  of  the Rent Controller,	 holding  that	the       agreement created a lease and not a license and that S. 2 of       the  Act did not exempt the two rooms from the operation	 of       the Act.	 The two questions for determination in this appeal       were, (1) whether the agreement created a lease or a license       and, (2) whether the said rooms were rooms in a hotel within       the meaning of s. 2(b) of the Act.       Held,  (Per  S.	K.  Das and  Sarkar,  jj.,  Subba  Rao,	 J.       dissenting), that the rooms let out by the appellant to	the       respondent  were rooms in a hotel within the meaning  of	 S.       2(b) of the AjmerMerwara Rent Control Act, 1947, and were as       such excluded from the purview of the Act and the respondent       was not entitled to claim standardisation of rent under	its       provisions.       Per  S. K. Das, j In order that a room may be 'a room  in  a       hotel'  within the meaning of the Act, it must  fulfill	two       conditions, (1) it must be part of the hotel in the physical       sense  and, (2) its user must be connected with the  general       purpose of the hotel of which it is a part,369   A  hair-dresser's business provided one of the  amenitiesof  a  modern hotel and as such it was	connected  with	 thebusiness of the hotel.   There  could be no doubt from the terms of the  agreementexecuted  by the parties in the instant case that it  was  alease and not a licence.  Per  Sarkar, J.-The words "room in a hotel" in S. 2(b)  ofthe  Act must be given their plain meaning and a room  in  ahotel  must, therefore, mean any room in a building  in	 thewhole of which the business of a hotel was carried on.  Per  Subba Rao, J.--Although the document executed by	 theparties	 was  apparently  in a	language  appropriate  to  alicence, the agreement between them, judged by its substanceand  real intention, as it must be, left no manner of  doubtthat   the   document  was  a  lease.	It   had   all	 thecharacteristics	 that  distinguished  it  from	a   license,namely,	 (1) that it created an interest in the property  infavour	of  the respondent, and, (2) it gave  him  exclusivepossession   thereof,	which,	in  the	  absence   of	 anycircumstances  that  negatived	it, must  indicate  a  clearintention to grant a lease.  Errington v. Errington, [1952] 1 All E.R. 149 and Cobb  v.Lane, [1952] 1 All E.R. 1199, referred to.  The words 'room in a hotel', properly construed, must meana room that was part of a hotel and partook of its characterand did not cease to do so even after it was let out.   Consequently,  where	 a hotel, as in	 the  instant  case,occupied  the  entire building, and rooms were let  out	 forcarrying on a business different from that of a hotel,	suchrooms could not fall within purview Of S. 2 of the Act.   There could be no reasonable nexus in this case between ahair-dresser's	business  and that of a hotel as  there	 wasnothing	 in the document in question to prevent	 the  tenantfrom carrying on any other business, or to bind him to	giveany  preferential treatment to the lodgers, who	 could	taketheir  chance only as general customers, the  tenant's	onlyliability being to pay the stipulated rent.JUDGMENT:   CIVIL  APPELLATE  JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal	 No.  38  of1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedthe  April  29, 1953, of the Punjab High Court at  Simla  inCivil Revision No. 761 of 1951, arising out of the AppellateOrder dated October 6, 1951, of the Court of District Judge,Delhi  in Misc.	 Civil Appeal No. 248 of 1950,	against	 theorder  of the Rent Controller, Delhi dated the December	 14,1950.47370C.   K.	  Daphtary,  Solicitor-General	of  India,   N.	  C.Chatterjee,  S.	 N.  Andley and J. B.  Dadachanji,  for	 theAppellant.The respondent did not appear.1959.  May 19.	The following Judgments were delivered  S. K.	 DAS  J.-I have had the advantage and  privilege  ofreading	 the  judgments	 prepared by  my  learned  brethren,Sarkar,	 J.,  and  Subba Rao, J. I  agree  with	 my  learnedbrother	 Subba Rao, J., that the deed of May 1, 1949,  is  alease  and not a licence.  I have nothing useful to  add  towhat he has said on this part of the case of the appellant.  On the question of the true scope and effect of s. 2(b) ofthe  Delhi and Ajmer-Merwara Rent Control Act, (19 of  1947)hereinafter called the Rent Control Act, I have reached	 thesame  conclusion as has been reached by my  learned  brotherSarkar, J., namely, that the rooms or spaces let out by the'appellant  to  the  respondent in the  Imperial	 Hotel,	 NewDelhi,	were rooms in a hotel within the meaning of s.	2(b)of  the Rent Control Act; therefore that Act did  not  applyand  the  respondent  was  not	entitled  to  ask  for	 thedetermination  of  fair	 rent  under  its  provisions.	 Thereasons	 for  which  I	have  reached  that  conclusion	 aresomewhat different from those of my learned brother,  SarkarJ., and it is, therefore, necessary that I should state	 thereasons in my own words.I read first s. 2(b) of the Rent Control Act so far as it isrelevant for our purpose:"S.  2. In this Act, unless there is anything  repugnant  inthe subject or context,-(a)...............................................(b)  'premises' means any building or building which is,  oris  intended  to  be,  let for use as  a  residence  or	 forcommercial any other purpose......... but does not include aroom in a dharamshala, hotel or lodging house."The  question  before  us  is-what is  the  meaning  of	 theexpression 'a room in a, hotel' ?  Does it merely371mean  a room which in a physical sense is within a  buildingor  part  of  a building used as a hotel; or  does  it	meansomething more, that is the room itself is not' only  withina hotel in a physical sense but is let out to serve what areknown	as   'hotel  purposes'?	  If  a	  strictly   literalconstruction  is  adopted,  then  a  room  in  a  hotel	  ordharamshala  or lodging house means merely that the room  iswithin, and part of, the building which is used as a  hotel,dharamshala or lodging house.  There may be a case where theentire	building  is  not used as a  hotel,  dharamshala  orlodging	 house,	 but  only a part of it so  used.   In	thatevent, the hotel, lodging house or dharamshala will be	thatpart  of  the building only which is used as such,  and	 anyroom  therein  will  be a room in a  hotel,  dharamshala  orlodging	 house.	  Rooms outside that part but  in  the	samebuilding  will	not  be rooms in  a  hotel,  dharamshala  orlodging	 house.	  Take, however, a case where  the  room  inquestion  is within that part of the building which is	usedas  a hotel, dharamshala or lodging house, but the  room  islet  out for a purpose totally unconnected with that of	 thehotel, lodging house or dharamshala as the case may be. Willthe  room  still  be a room in a  hotel,  lodging  house  ordharamshala ? That I take it, is the question which we	haveto answer.   The word 'hotel' is not defined in the Rent Control	Act.It  is	defined in a cognate Act called	 the  Bombay  Rents,Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act, 1947 (Bom. 57  of47).   The  definition there says that a  hotel	 or  lodginghouse means a building or a part of a building where lodgingwith  or  without board or other service is provided  for  amonetary  consideration.   I  do not pause  here  to  decidewhether that definition should be adopted for the purpose ofinterpreting  s.  2(b)	of  the rent  Control  Act.   It  issufficient  to	state that in its ordinary  connotation	 theword  'hotel'  means a house for entertaining  strangers  ortravellers: a place where lodging is furnished to  transientguests	as well as one where both lodging and food or  otheramenities  are furnished.  It is worthy of note that  in  a.2(b) of the Rent Control Act three different words are	used'hotel', dharamshals' or 'lodging house'.372Obviously,   the   three  words	 do  not   mean	  the	sameestablishment.	 In the cognate Act, the Bombay Rents  Hoteland  Lodging  House Rates Control Act,	1947,  however,	 thedefinition  clause  gives  the same  meaning  to  the  words'hotel' and  lodging house'.  In my view s. 2(b) of the RentControl	 Act  by using two different words  distinguishes  ahotel  from a lodging house in some respects  and  indicatesthat the former is an establishment where not merely lodgingbut  some  other amenities are provided.  It  was,  however,never  questioned that the Imperial Hotel, New Delhi,  is  ahotel  within  the meaning of that word as  it	is  commonlyunderstood, or even as it is defined in the cognate Act.   Passing  now	 from definitions which are apt	 not  to  beuniform,  the question is whether the partitioned spaces  inthe two cloak rooms let out to the respondent were rooms  inthat hotel.  In a physical sense they were undoubtedly roomsin  that  hotel.   I  am prepared, however  to	say  that  astrictly  literal construction may not be justified and	 theword  'room' in the composite expression 'room in  a  hotel'must  take  colour from the context or	the  collocation  ofwords in which it has been used; in other words, its meaningshould	be determined noscitur a sociis.  The reason  why  Ithink so may be explained by an illustration.  Suppose thereis  a big room inside a hotel; in a physical sense it  is  aroom  in a hotel, but let us suppose that it is let out,  totake an extreme example, as a timber godown.  Will it  stillbe  a  room in a hotel, though in a physical sense it  is  aroom  of the building which is used as a hotel?	 I think  itwould  be  doing violence to the context if  the  expression'room  in  a  hotel' is interpreted in	a  strictly  literalsense.	 On  the view which I take a room in  a	 hotel	mustfulfil	two conditions: (1) it must he part a hotel  in	 thephysical  sense and (2) its user must be connected with	 thegeneral purpose of the hotel of which it is a part.  In	 thecase  under  our consideration the spaces were let  out	 forcarrying on the business of a hair dresser.  Such a businessI  consider to be one of the amenities which a modern  hotelprovides.  The circumstance that people not resident in	 thehotel might also be served by the hair dresser does373not  alter  the	 position; it is still an  amenity  for	 theresidents in the hotel to have a hair dressing saloon withinthe hotel itself.  A modern hotel provides many'  facilitiesto its residents; some hotels have billiard rooms let out toa  private person where residents of the hotel as also	non-residents  can	play billiards on payment of  a	 small	fee;other  hotels provide post office and banking facilities  byletting out rooms in the hotel for that purpose.  All  theseamenties  are  connected  with	the  hotel  business  and  abarber's shop within the hotel premises is no exception.  These	 are  my  reasons  for holding	that  the  rooms  inquestion  were rooms in a hotel within the meaning of  s.  2(b)  of the Rent Control Act, 1947, and the  respondent	 wasnot  entitled to ask for fixation of fair or  standard	rentfor  the same. 1, therefore, agree with my  learned  brotherSarkar,	 J., that the appeal should be allowed, but  in	 thecircumstances  of  the	case there should be  no  order	 forcosts.  SARKAR  J.-The  appellant is the proprietor  of  an  hotelcalled	the Imperial Hotel which is housed in a building  onQueensway,  New Delhi.	R. N. Kapoor, the  respondent  namedabove  who  is now dead, was the proprietor of	'a  businesscarried	 on  under  the	 name  of  Madam  Janes.   Under  anagreement  with	 the appellant, he came	 to  occupy  certainspaces in the Ladies' and Gents' cloak rooms of the ImperialHotel paying therefore initially at the rate of Rs. 800	 andsubsequently Rs. 700, per month.  On  September 26, 1950, R. N. Kapoor made  an	 applicationunder  s. 7(1) of the Delhi and Ajmere-Merwara Rent  ControlAct,  1947 (19 of 1947), to the Rent Controller, New  Delhi,alleging  that	he was a tenant of the spaces in  the  cloakrooms  under  the appellant and asking	that  standard	rentmight  be fixed in respect of them.  The  appellant  opposedthe  application,  contending for reasons  to  be  mentionedlater, that the Act did not apply and no standard rent couldbe   fixed.   The  Rent	 Controller  however  rejected	 theappellant's  contention and allowed the	 application  fixingthe standard rent at Rs. 94 per month.	On374appeal by the appellant,. the,District Judge of Delhi If setaside  the  order of the Rent Controller and  dismissed	 theapplication.   R.  N. Kapoor then moved the  High  Court  inrevision.   The	 High  Court  set aside	 the  order  of	 theDistrict  Judge	 and restored that of the  Rent	 Controller.Hence  this appeal.  We are informed that R. N. Kapoor	diedpending	 the  present appeal and his  legal  representativeshave  been duly brought on the record.	No one	has  howeverappeared  to  oppose  the appeal and we	 have  not  had	 theadvantage of the other side of the case placed before us.As earlier stated, the appellant contends that the Act	doesnot apply to the present case and the Rent Controller bad nojurisdiction  to fix a standard rent.  This  contention	 wasfounded	 on two grounds which I shall presently	 state,	 butbefore doing that I wish to refer to a few of the provisionsof the Act as that would help to appreciate the	 appellant'scontention. For  the purpose of the present case it may be stated	thatthe  object  of the Act is to control rents  and  evictions.Section	 3  says that no tenant shall be liable to  pay	 foroccupation of any premises any sum in excess of the standardrent of these premises.	 Section 2(d) defines a tenant as  aperson who takes on rent any promises.	Section 2(b) defineswhat  is a premises within the meaning of the Act  and	thisdefinition  will have to be set out later because this	caselargely turns on that definition.  Section 2(c) provides howstandard  rent	in  relation  to  any  promises	 is  to	  bedetermined.  Section 7 (1) states that if any dispute arisesregarding  the	standard  rent	payable	 for  any   premisesthen it shall be determined by the Court.  It is under	thissection that the application out of which this appeal ariseswas  made, the Court presumably being the  Rent	 Controller.It  is clear from these provisions of the Act that  standardrent can be fixed only in relation to premises as defined inthe  Act and only a tenant, that is, the person to whom	 thepremises  have been let out, can ask for the fixing  of	 thestandard rent.  I now set out the definition of " premises " given in	 theAct so far as is material for our purposes:375" "premises" means any building or part of a building  whichis  or	is intended to be let  separately..............	 butdoes  not' include a room in a dharamsala, hotel or  lodginghouse."  It  is  clear from this definition that the  Act  did	 notintend	to  control the rents payable by and  evictions	 of,persons	 who  take on rent rooms in a dharamsala,  hotel  orlodging house.  The  appellant contends that the spaces are  not  premiseswithin	the  Act  as they are rooms in a  hotel	 and  so  nostandard  rent could be fixed in respect of them.  Thus	 thefirst question that arises in this appeal is are the  spacesrooms in an hotel within the definition ? If they are  roomsin an hotel, clearly no standard rent could be fixed by	 theRent Controller in respect of them.  The Act does not define an hotel.  That word has thereforeto  be understood in its ordinary sense.  It is clear to  methat the Imperial Hotel is an hotel however the word may  beunderstood.   It  was never contended in  these	 proceedingsthat the Imperial Hotel was not an " hotel " within the Act.Indeed,	 the Imperial Hotel is one of the best known  hotelsof New Delhi.  It also seems to me plain that the spaces are"rooms	",  for,  this again has not been  disputed  in	 theCourts	below and I have not found any reason to think	thatthey are not rooms.The  language used in the Act is " room in  a......  hotel".The word " hotel " here must refer to a building for a	roomin an hotel must be a room in a building.  That building  nodoubt must be an hotel, that is to say, a building in  whichthe  business of an hotel is carried on.  The language	usedin  the	 Act would include an room in  the  hotel  building.That  is its plain meaning.  Unless there is good reason  todo otherwise, that meaning cannot be departed from.  This isthe view that the learned District Judge took.  Is  there  then any reason why the words  of	the  statuteshould be given a meaning other than their ordinary meaning?The Rent Controller and the High376Court  found  several  such reasons and	 these	I  will	 nowconsider.  The  learned Rent Controller took the view that a room  inan  hotel  would  be a room normally used  for	purposes  oflodging	 and  not any room in an hotel.	 He took  this	viewbecause	 he thought that if, for example, there was a  threestoreyed  building, the ground floor of which was  used	 forshops  and the two upper floors for an hotel, it  could	 nothave  been intended to exclude the entire building from	 theoperation  of the Act, and so the rooms on the ground  floorwould  not  have  been rooms in an hotel.  I  am  unable  toappreciate  how	 this illustration leads to  the  conclusionthat a room in an hotel contemplated is a room normally usedfor  lodging.	The learned Rent Controller's  reasoning  isclearly	 fallacious.  Because in a part of a building  thereis  a  hotel, the entire building does not become  a  hotel.Under the definition, a part of a building may be a premisesand  there is nothing to prevent a part only of	 a  buildingbeing  a  hotel and the rest of it not being  one.   In	 theillustration imagined the ground floor is not a part of	 thehotel.	 The shoprooms in the ground floor cannot  for	thisreason	be  rooms in a hotel at all.  No question  of  theserooms  being  rooms in an hotel normally used  for  lodging,arises.	 We see no reason why a room in an hotel within	 theAct must be a room normally used for lodging.  The Act	doesnot  say so.  It would be difficult to say which is  a	roomnormally used for lodging for the hotel owner may use a roomin an hotel for any purpose of the hotel, he likes.   Again,it  would  be an unusual hotel which lets  out	its  lodgingrooms;	the usual thing is to give licences to	boarders  tolive in these rooms.   I now pass on to the judgment of the High Court.  Khosla,J.,  who delivered the judgment, thought that a room  in  anhotel would be within the definition if it was let out to  aperson	to whom board or other service was also	 given.	  Itwould seem that according to the learned Judge a room in  anhotel  within  the Act is a room let out to a  guest  in  anhotel,	for only a guest bargains for lodging and  food	 andservices  in  an hotel.	 But the section  does	not  containwords377indicating  that  this	is  the	 meaning  contemplated.	  Indefining  a  room in an hotel it does not  circumscribe	 theterms  of  the letting.	 'If this was  the  intention,'	 thetenant would be entirely unprotected.  Ex hypothesi he wouldbe  outside the protection of the Act.	Though he  would  befor  all practical purposes a boarder in an hotel,the  wouldalso  be  outside  the protection of the  cognate  Act,	 TheBombay	Rents, Hotels and Lodging House, Rates Control	Act,1947  (Bom.  57	 of 1947), which has  been  made  applicabletoDelhi,  for that Act deals with lodging rates in an  hotelwhich  are entirely different from rents payable when  hotelrooms are let out.  A lodger in an hotel is a mere  licenseeand  not  a  tenant  for " there is  involved  in  the	term"lodger" that the man must lodge in the house of another  ";see  Foa  on Landlord and Tenant (8th Ed.) p.  9.  It  couldhardly	have  been  intended  to  leave	 a  person  who	  ispractically  a boarder in an hotel in that situation.  As  Ihave  earlier said, it would be a most unusual	hotel  whichlets  out its rooms to a guest, and the Act could  not	havebeen contemplating such a thing.   Khosla,  J., also said that the room in a hotel need	 notnecessarily  be	 a  bed room but it must  be  so  intimatelyconnected  with the hotel as to be a part and parcel of	 it,that  it  must	be  a room which  is  an  essential  amenityprovided  by an hotel e.g., the dining room in an hotel.   Iam unable to agree.  I do not appreciate why any room in  anhotel  is  not	intimately  connected  with  it,  by   whichapparently  is	meant,	the  business  of  the	hotel.	 Thebusiness  of the hotel is carried on in the  whole  buildingand therefore in every part of it.  It would be difficult tosay  that  one	part  of the  building	is  more  intimatelyconnected  with the hotel business than another.  Nor  do  Isee any reason why the Act should exempt from its protectiona  part	 which is intimately connected as it  is  said,	 andwhich	confess I do not understand, and not a part  not  sointimately  connected.	 I also do not	understand  what  ismeant  by saying that a part of an hotel supplies  essentialamenities.   The  idea of essentiality of an amenity  is  sovague as to be unworkable. This48378test  would introduce great uncertainty in the	working	  ofthe  Act which could not have been intended.  Nor do  I	 seeany  reason  why  the  Act  should  have  left	out  of	 itsprotection a room which is an essential amenity of the hoteland not other rooms in it.  Though  it  is not clear, it may be that  Khosla  J.,	 wasthinking that in order that a room in an hotel may be withinthe  definition it must be let out for the purposes  of	 thehotel.	By this it is apparently meant that the room must belet  out  to  supply board or give  other  services  to	 theguests, to do which are the purposes of an hotel.  Again,  Ifind no justification for the view.  There is nothing in thedefinition about the purposes of the letting out.  Nor am  Iaware that hotel proprietors are in the habit of letting outportions of the hotel premises to others for supplying boardand services to the guests in the hotels.  It may be that anhotel proprietor grants licences to contractors to use partsof his premises to provide board and services to the  guestsin  the hotel.	This however is a different matter and	withsuch licences we are not concerned.  Again, a proprietor  ofa  different kind of business who lets out a portion of	 hisbusiness premises for the purposes of his business does	 notget an exemption from the operation of the Act.	 I am unableto  see why the proprietor of an hotel business should	havespecial	 consideration.	 The Act no doubt exempts a room  inan  hotel but it says nothing about the purposes  for  whichthe room must be let out to get the exemption.	Further, notonly a room in an hotel is exempted by the definition but atthe same time also a room in a dharamsala.  If a room in  anhotel  within the Act is a room let out for the purposes  ofthe  hotel so must therefore be a room in a  dharamsala,  Itwould however be difficult to see how a room in a dharamsalacan  be	 let out for the purposes of the  dharamsala  for  adharamsala  does  not  as a rule supply	 food  or  give	 anyservices, properly so called. Having	 given the matter my best consideration I  have	 notbeen  able  to	find any reason why the words  used  in	 thedefinition  should  not have their plain  meaning  given  tothem.  I therefore come to the379conclusion that a room in an hotel within the definition  isany room in a building in the whole of which the business ofan  hotel  is  run.  So	 understood,  the  definition  wouldinclude the spaces in the cloak rooms of the Imperiol  Hotelwith which we are concerned.  These spaces are, in my  view,rooms  in  an hotel and excluded from the operation  of	 theAct.   The Rent Controller had no power to fix any  standardrent in respect of them. The  appellant also contended that Kapoor was not a  tenantof  the spaces but only a licensee and so again the Act	 didnot   apply.   The  question  so  raised  depends   on	 theconstruction  of  the written agreement under  which  Kapoorcame to occupy the spaces and the circumstances of the case.I  do  not consider it necessary to express any	 opinion  onthis question for this appeal must in my view be allowed  asthe spaces are outside the Act being rooms in an hotel. In  the  result I would allow the appeal  and	dismiss	 theapplication  for fixing standard rent.	I do not propose  tomake any order for costs. SUBBA	RAO  J.- I have had the advantage  of  perusing	 thejudgment of my learned brother, Sarkar, J., and I regret  myinability to agree with him.The  facts material to the question raised are in  a  narrowcompass.   The	appellants, the Associated Hotels  of  IndiaLtd., are the proprietors of Hotel Imperial, New Delhi.	 Therespondent,  R. N. Kapur, since deceased, was in  occupationof  two	 rooms described as ladies'  and  gentlemen's  cloakrooms,	and carried on his business as a  hair-dresser.	  Hesecured possession of the said rooms under a deed dated	 May1,  1949, executed by him and the appellants.  He  got	intopossession  of the said rooms, agreeing to pay a sum of	 Rs.9,600  a  year, i.e., Rs. 800 per month, but  later  on,  bymutual consent, the annual payment was reduced to Rs. 8,400,i.e.,  Rs.  700	 per  month.  On  September  26,  1950,	 therespondent  made  an  application to  the  Rent	 Controller,Delhi,	alleging  that the rent demanded was  excessive	 andtherefore  a  fair rent might be fixed under the  Delhi	 andAjmer-Merwara380Rent  Control Act, 1947 (19 of 1947), hereinafter called  Ifthe Act.  The appellants appeared before the Rent Controllerand  contended	that  the  Act had  no	application  to	 thepremises  in  question	at they were  premises	in  a  hotelexempted under s. 2 of the Act from its operation, and	alsoon  the	 ground	 that  under  the  aforesaid  document	 therespondent  was not a tenant but only a licensee.  By  orderdated  October 24, 1950, the Rent Controller held  that	 theexemption under s. 2 of the Act related only to	 residentialrooms  in  a  hotel and therefore the  Act  applied  to	 thepremises in question.  On appeal the District Judge,  Delhi,came  to a contrary conclusion; he was of the view that	 therooms  in question were rooms in a hotel within the  meaningof s. 2 of the Act and therefore the Act had no	 applicationto the present case.  Further on a construction of the	saiddocument,  he  held that the appellants only  permitted	 therespondent  to	use the said two rooms in  the	hotel,	and;therefore,  the	 transaction between the parties was  not  alease  but  a licence.	On the basis of	 the  aforesaid	 twofindings, he came to the conclusion that the Rent Controllerhad  no	 jurisdiction to fix a fair rent for  the  premises.The  respondent preferred a revision against the said  orderof the District Judge to the High Court of Punjab at  Simla,and  Khosla, J., held that the said premises were not  roomsin  a hotel within the meaning of s. 2 of the Act  and	thatthe  document executed between the parties created  a  leaseand  not  a licence.  On those findings, he  set  aside	 thedecree of the learned District Judge and restored the  orderof  the	 Rent Controller.  The present appeal was  filed  inthis  Court  by special leave granted to the  appellants  onJanuary 18, 1954. The  learned  Solicitor-General  and  Mr.  Chatterjee,	 whofollowed  him,	contended that the Rent	 Controller  had  nojurisdiction  to fix a fair rent under the Act in regard  tothe  said  premises  for  the  following  reasons:  (1)	 Thedocument  dated	 May  1, 1949,	created	 a  relationship  oflicensor  and licensee between the parties and not  that  oflessor	and  lessee as held by the High Court; and  (2)	 thesaid rooms were rooms in a hotel381within the meaning of s. 2 of the Act, and, therefore,	theywere   exempted	  from	 the   operation.   of	 the	Act.Unfortunately,	the legal representative of  the  respondentwas  ex	 parte	and we did not have  the  advantage  of	 theopposite view being presented to us.  But we have before  usthe considered judgment of the High Court, which has broughtout all the salient points in favour of the respondent,The  first question turns upon the true construction of	 thedocument  dated May, 1, 1949, whereunder the respondent	 wasput in possession of the said rooms.  As the argument  turnsupon the terms of the said document it will be convenient toread  the  relevant  portions  thereof.	  The  document	  isdescribed as a deed of licence and the parties are describedas licensor and licensee.  The preamble to the document runsthus :	      " Whereas the Licensee approached the Licensor	      through their constituted, Attorney to  permit	      the  Licensee to allow the use and  occupation	      of  space	 allotted in the  Ladies  and  Gents	      Cloak Rooms, at the Hotel Imperial, New Delhi,	      for   the	 consideration	and  on	 terms	 and	      conditions as follows:-"	      The following are its terms and conditions:	      1.    In pursuance of the said agreement,	 the	      Licensor hereby grants to the Licensee,  Leave	      and  License  to	use  and  occupy  the	said	      premises	to carry on their business  of	Hair	      Dressers	from  1st May, 1949 to	30th  April,	      1950.	      2.    That   the	charges	 of  such  use	 and	      occupation  shall be Rs. 9,600 a year  payable	      in  four	quarterly  installments	 i.e.,	 1st	      immediately  on signing the contract,  2nd  on	      the  1st	of  August, 1949,  3rd	on  the	 1st	      November,	  1949	and  the  4th  on  the	 1st	      February,	 1950, whether the  Licensee  occupy	      the premises and carry on the business or not.	      3.    That in the first instance the  Licensor	      shall allow to the Licensee leave and  license	      to  use  and occupy the said  premises  for  a	      period of one year only.	      4.   That	  the  licensee	  shall	  have	 the	      opportunity of further extension of the period	      of license after the expiry of one year at the	      option of the licensor on	      382	      the same terms and conditions but in any	case	      the  licensee shall intimate their desire	 for	      an  extension at least three months  prior  to	      the  expiry of one year from the date  of	 the	      execution of this DEED.	      5.  The licensee shall use the premises as  at	      present  fitted  and  keep the  same  in	good	      condition.  The licensor shall not supply	 any	      fitting  or fixture more then what  exists  in	      the  premises for the present.   The  licensee	      will  have  their power and light	 meters	 and	      will pay for electric charges.	      6.  That	the  licensee  shall  not  make	 any	      alterations in the premises without the  prior	      consent in writing from the licensor.	      7.    That should the licensee fail to pay the			    agreed  fee to the licensor from the date  and	      in the manner as agreed, the licensor shall be	      at liberty to terminate this DEED without	 any	      notice and without payment of any compensation	      and  shall be entitled to charge	interest  at	      12% per annum on the amount remaining unpaid.	      8.    That  in case the licensee	for  reasons	      beyond their control are forced to close their	      business	in Delhi, the licensor	agrees	that	      during the remaining period the license  shall	      be transferred to any person with the  consent	      and  approval  of	 the  licensor	subject	  to	      charges so obtained not exceeding the  monthly	      charge of Rs. 800."  The  document no doubt uses phraseology appropriate  to  alicence.   But	it is the substance of	the  agreement	thatmatters and not the form, for otherwise clever drafting	 cancamouflage the real intention of the parties.  What is the substance of this document ? Two rooms at	 theHotel Imperial were put in possession of the respondent	 forthe  purpose,  of carrying on his business  as	hair-dresserfrom  May  1, 1949.  The term of the document  was,  in	 thefirst instance, for one year, but it might be renewed.	 Theamount payable for the use and occupation was fixed in a sumof  Rs. 9,600 per annum, payable in four  instalments.	 Therespondent  was to keep the premises in good  condition,  Heshould383pay   for  power  and  electricity.   He  should  not	makealterations  in	 the  premises without the  consent  of	 theappellants.  If he did not pay the prescribed amount in	 themanner	agreed	to, he could be	 evicted  therefrom  withoutnotice, and he would also be liable to pay compensation withinterest.   He could transfer his interest in  the  documentwith  the consent of the appellants.  The respondent  agreedto  pay	 the  amount prescribed whether he  carried  on	 thebusiness in the premises or not.  Shortly stated, under	 thedocument  the  respondent was given possession	of  the	 tworooms for carrying on his private business on condition thathe   should   pay  the	fixed  amount  to   the	  appellantsirrespective of the fact whether he carried on his  businessin the premises or not.There is a marked distinction between a lease and a licence.Section 105 of the Transfer of Property Act defines a  leaseof  immoveable	property as a transfer of a right  to  enjoysuch property made for a certain time in consideration for aprice  paid or promised.  Under s. 108 of the said Act,	 thelessee is entitled to be put in possession of the  property.A  lease is there-' fore a transfer of an interest in  land.The interest, transferred is called the leasehold  interest.The lessor parts with his right to enjoy the property duringthe  term  of  the lease, and it follows from  it  that	 thelessee	gets  that  right to the exclusion  of	the  lessor.Whereas s.     52  of  the Indian Easements  Act  defines  alicence thus   :	      "Where  one  person grants to another,  or  to	      a definite number of other persons, a right to	      do or continue to do in or upon the immoveable	      property	of  the	 grantor,  something   which	      would,  in  the  absence	of  such  right,  be	      unlawful, and such right does not amount to an	      easement	or an interest in the property,	 the	      right is called a licence."Under  the  aforesaid section, if a document  gives  only  aright  to  use	the property in a particular  way  or  undercertain terms while it remains in possession and control  ofthe  owner  thereof,  it  will	be  a  licence.	  The  legalpossession, therefore, continues to be with the owner of theproperty, but the licensee is permitted to384make use of the premises for a particular purpose'.  But forthe  permission, his occupation would be unlawful.  It	doesnot  create  in	 his favour any estate	or  interest  n	 theproperty.   There is, therefore, cleat	distinction  betweenthe  two  concepts.   The  dividing  line  is  clear  thoughsometimes it becomes very thin or even blurred.	 At one timeit  was	 thought that the test of exclusive  possession	 wasinfalliable  and if a person was given exclusive  possessionof a premises, it would conclusively establish that he was alessee.	  But  there was a change and the  recent  trend  ofjudicial opinion is reflected in Errington v. Errington (1),wherein	 Lord Denning reviewing the case law on the  subjectsummarizes the result of his discussion thus at p. 155:	       "The  result  of	 all these  cases  is  that,	      although	a person who is let  into  exclusive	      possession is prima facie, to be considered to	      be tenant, nevertheless he will not be held to	      be  so  if  the  circumstances  negative	 any	      intention to create a tenancy."The Court of Appeal again in Cobb v. Lane (2) considered thelegal  position	 and  laid down that the  intention  of	 theparties was the real test for ascertaining the character  ofa document.  At p. 1201, Somervell.. L. J., stated :	      "................ the solution that would seem	      to  have been found is, as one  would  expect,	      that  it must depend on the intention  of	 the	      parties."Denning, L. J., said much to the same effect at p. 1202:	      "The  question  in all these cases is  one  of	      intention:  Did  the  circumstances  and	 the	      conduct of the parties show that all that	 was	      intended	was that the occupier should have  a	      personal	privilege  with no interest  in	 the	      land ?"  The  following  propositions may, therefore, be  taken  aswell-established:  (1)	To  ascertain  whether	a   documentcreates	 a licence or lease, the substance of  the  documentmust  be  preferred to the form ; (2) the real test  is	 theintention  of the parties-whether they intended to create  alease or a licence; (3) if the document creates an  interestin the property, it is a lease;(1) [1952] 1 All E.R. 149.    (2) [1952] 1 All E.R. 1199.385but, if it only permits another to make use of the property,of  which the legal possession continues with the owner,  itis  a  licence; and (4) if under the document a	 party	getsexclusive  possession  of the property, prima facie,  he  isconsidered  to	be  a  tenant;	but  circumstances  may	  beestablished which negative the intention to create a  lease.Judged	by the said tests, it is not possible to  hold	thatthe  document  is  one of licence.  Certainly  it  does	 notconfer	only a bare personal privilege on the respondent  tomake use of the rooms.	It puts him in exclusive  possessionof  them,  untrammelled	 by the control and  free  from	 thedirections of the appellants.  The covenants are those	thatare  usually  found or expected to be included	in  a  leasedeed.  The right of the respondent to transfer his  interestunder  the  document,  although	 with  the  consent  of	 theappellants,  is destructive of any theory of  licence.	 Thesolitary circumstance that the rooms let out in the  presentcase  are  situated  in a building wherein a  hotel  is	 runcannot make any difference in the character of the  holding.The  intention of the parties is clearly manifest,  and	 theclever	phraseology used or the ingenuity of  the  document-writer hardly conceals the real intent.	 I, therefore,	holdthat  under  the document there was transfer of a  right  toenjoy the two rooms, and, therefore, it created a tenancy infavour of the respondent.  The  next  ground  turns  upon  the  construction  of	 theprovisions  of	s. 2 of the Act.  Section 2(b)	defines	 theterm  "	 premises  and	the material portion  of  it  is  asfollows:	      "	 " Premises means any building or part of  a	      building	which is, or is intended to be,	 let	      separately.		 ............................................		 ..............................................	      but does not include a room in a, dharmashala,	      hotel or lodging house."What is the construction of the words " a room in a hotel  "? The object of the Act as disclosed in the preamble is " toprovide for the control of rents and evictions, and for	 thelease to Government of premises upon their becoming  vacant,in certain areas in the 49386Provinces  of  Delhi  and  Ajmer-Merwara".   The  Act	was,therefore,  passed to control exorbitant rents of  buildingsprevailing in the said States.	But s. 2 exempts a room in ahotel  from  the operation of the Act.	The reason  for	 theexemption  may	be  to encourage running of  hotels  in	 thecities, or it may be for other reasons.	 Whatever may be theobject	of  the Act, the scope of the  exemption  cannot  beenlarged  so  as  to limit the operation of  the  Act.	 Theexemption  from	 the Act is only in respect of a room  in  ahotel.	 The  collocation  of  the  words  brings  out	 thecharacteristics of the exempted room.  The room is part of ahotel.	 It partakes its character and does not cease to  beone  after  it is let out.  It is, therefore,  necessary  toascertain the meaning of the word "hotel".  The word " hotel"  is  not defined in the Act.	A hotel in  common  parlancemeans  a place where a proprietor makes it his	business  tofurnish	 food  or lodging, or both to  travellers  or  otherpersons.   A  building	cannot	be run	as  a  hotel  unlessservices  necessary for the comfortable stay of lodgers	 andboarders are maintained.  Services so maintained. vary	withthe standard of the hotel and the class of persons to  whichit caters; but the amenities must have relation to the hotelbusiness.  Provisions for heating or lighting, supply of hotwater, sanitary arrangements, sleeping facilities, and	suchothers	are  some  of the amenities a hotel  offers  to	 itsconstituents.	 But  every  amenity  however	remote	 andunconnected with the business of a hotel cannot be describedas  service in a hotel.	 The idea of a hotel can  be  betterclarified  by illustration than by definition and by  givingexamples of what is a room in a hotel and also what is not aroom in a hotel. (1) A owns a building in a part whereof  heruns  a hotel but leases out a room to B in the part of	 thebuilding not used as hotel; (2) A runs a hotel in the entirebuilding but lets out a room to B for a purpose	 unconnectedwith  the hotel business; (3) A runs a hotel in	 the  entirebuilding  and  lets  out a room to B  for  carrying  on	 hisbusiness different from that of a hotel, though incidentallythe inmates of the hotel take advantage of it because of itsproximity; (4) A lets out a room in such a building387to  another with an express condition that he  should  cateronly  to  the needs of the inmates of the hotel; and  (5)  Alets out a room in a hotel to a lodger, who can command	 allthe  services  and  amenities  of a  hotel.   In  the  firstillustration,  the  room has never been a part	of  a  hotelthough	it is part of a building where a hotel is  run.	  Inthe  second,  though  a room was once part of  a  hotel,  itceased	to be one, for it has been let out for	a  non-hotelpurpose.   In the fifth, it is let out as part of  a  hotel,and, therefore, it is definitely a room in a hotel.  In	 thefourth, the room may still continue as part of the hotel  asit  is	let out to provide an amenity or  service  connectedwith the hotel.	 But to extend the scope of the words to thethird illustration is to obliterate the distinction  betweena  room in a hotel and a room in any other building.   If  aroom in a building, which is not a hotel but situated near ahotel, is let out to a tenant to carry on his business of  ahair-dresser,  it is not exempted from the operation of	 theAct.  But if the argument of the appellants be accepted,  ifa similar room in a building, wherein a hotel is situated islet  out  for a similar purpose, it would be  exempted.	  Ineither	case, the tenant is put in exclusive  possession  ofthe room and he is entitled to carry on his business withoutany  reference	to the activities of the hotel.	 Can  it  besaid that there is any reasonable nexus between the businessof  the tenant and that of the hotel.  The only	 thing	thatcan  be said is that a lodger in a hotel building  can	stepinto the saloon to have a shave or haircut.  So too, he	 cando  so	in the case of a saloon in the	neighbouring  house.The  tenant  is	 not  bound by	the  contract  to  give	 anypreferential treatment to the lodger.  He may take his	turnalong  with others, and when he is served, he is served	 notin  his	 capacity  as a lodger but as  one  of	the  generalcustomers.   What is more, under the document the tenant  isnot  even bound to carry on the business of a  hair-dresser.His  only liability is to pay the stipulated amount  to	 thelandlord.  The room, therefore, for the purpose of the	Act,ceases	to  be a part of the hotel and becomes	a  place  ofbusiness  of the respondent.  As the rooms in question	werenot let388out  as part of a hotel or for hotel purposes, I  must	holdthat they are' not rooms in a hotel within the meaning of s.2 of the Act.In  this  view,	 the appellants are not	 exempted  from	 theoperation  of  the Act.	 The judgment of the High  Court  iscorrect.  The appeal fails and is dismissed.			   ORDERIn  accordance with the opinion of the majority, the  appealis allowed.  No order as to costs.