PETITIONER:THE MEMBER FOR THE BOARD OF AGRICULTURAL INCOME TAX, ASSAM	Vs.RESPONDENT:SMT.  SINDHURANI CHAUDHURANI.(with connected appeals)DATE OF JUDGMENT:24/04/1957BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMACITATION: 1957 AIR  729		  1957 SCR 1019ACT:Salami--Indicia-If capital receipt-Liability to agriculturalincome-tax-Assam  Agricultural Income-tax Act (Assam  IX  of1939), s. 2(a) (1).HEADNOTE:The true indicia of salami are (1) its single  non-recurringcharacter  and	(2)  payment prior to the  creation  of	 thetenancy.   It  is the consideration paid by the	 tenant	 forbeing  let  into  possession and can  be  neither  rent	 norrevenue	 but  is  a  capital receipt in	 the  hands  of	 thelandlord.Kamakshya  Narain  Singh v. The Commissioner of	 Income	 Tax(1943) L.R. 70 I.A. 180, relied on.Case-law reviewed.Birendra  Kishore Manikya v. Secretary of State	 for  India,(1920) I.L.R. 48 Cal. 766, Meher Bano Khanum v. Secretary ofState  for  India, (1925) I.L.R. 53 Cal. 34,  Raja  RajendraNarayan	 Bhanja	 Deo v. Commissioner of Income	Tax,  (1929)I.L.R.	9  Pat. 1 and Commissioner of Income Tax  v.  K.  C.Manavikramato Rajah, I.L.R. 1945 Mad. 837, distinguished.Consequently,  where  payments	described  as  salamis	 andreceived by certain zamindar assessees as consideration	 forgranting  agricultural leases, by no means of  a  precariousnature, were(1) [1946] 1 All E.R. 546.  (2) [1947] 1 All E.R. 608.1020all  made prior to such grants and were of  a  non-recurringcharacter,  but calculated at rates varying with the  natureof the lands and chargeable on every subsequent eviction andre-letting, they were properly so described and were neitherrent  nor  revenue within the  definition  of  'agriculturalincome'	 contained in s. 2(a) (1) of the Assam	AgriculturalIncome-Tax  Act and could not be assessed to tax  under	 theAct.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE  JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals  Nos.  162  of1955, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43 and 44 of 1956.Appeal from the judgment and order dated January 5, 1953, ofthe  Calcutta  High  Court (Original  Side)  in	 Income	 TaxReference  Appeal  No.	12  of 1942  and  appeals  from	 thejudgment  and  order dated July 2, 1952, of the	 Assam	HighCourt at Gauhati in Agricultural Income Tax References	Nos.1, 2, 3, 7, 9, 6 and 8 of 1949 respectively.Veda  Vyasa and Naunit Lal, for the appellants in  C.A.	 No.162  of	 1955 and respondents in C. As.	 Nos. 38  to  44  of1956.B.  Baksi,  S.	N.  Mukerjea  and  R.  B.  Biswas,  for	 therespondents  in C. A. No. 162 of 1955 and appellants  in  C.As. Nos. 38 to 41, 43 and 44 of 1956.Appellant  in  C. A. No. 42 of 1956 not	 represented.  1957.1957 April 24.	The Judgment of the Court was delivered byKAPUR  J.-In all these appeals the question for decision  isthe character and purport of the payment termed 'Salami' andwhether it falls within the meaning of " agricultural income" as defined in the Assam Agricultural Income Tax Act  (Ass.IX of 1939) hereinafter called the " Act ".  C. A. No. 162 of 1955 is directed against the judgment  ofthe Calcutta High Court dated January 15, 1953.	 C. A.	Nos.38  to 44 of 1956 have been brought against the judgment  ofAssam High.  Court dated April 2, 1952.	 These matters	wereall heard together in the Assam High Court and were disposedof by one judgment C.  A. No. 162 of 1955 relates to the assessment year 1941-42.  The assessee in that case was a -/8/9 annas       1021co-sharer in a zamindari estate known as " Parbatjoar estate"  in  Assam.  The original assessee was  Jyotindra  NarayanChowdhury who died on January 25, 1953, and on his death hiswidow,	Shrimati  Sindhurani  Chowdhurani  and	others	weresubstituted.   The  gross  in, agricultural  income  of	 theassessee  was  Rs.  89,633 and income from  salami  was	 Rs.9,331-9-4   which  was	received  from	settlement  of	 414different holdings out of which 278 were holdings of  virginlands  and 136 were those of what are described as  auction-purchase lands.	 Out of the gross income from salami 15	 percent. has been allowed as collection charges and the  amountin  dispute  in	 this appeal therefore is  Rs.	7,934.	 TheAgricultural  Income  Tax  Officer  held  this	sum  to	  be"agricultural income " by his order dated November 10, 1941,which  was affirmed on appeal to the Assistant	Commissionerof  Agricultural  Income  Tax.	The revision  taken  to	 theCommissioner under s. 27 of the Act was dismissed but at theinstance  of the assessee the following two  questions	werereferred for the opinion of the High Court.(1)Whether  the single non-recurring premia or salamis	paidto the landlord assessee once only as consideration for	 thesettlement  of agricultural land at the time of	 granting  alease can be held to be income within the meaning of the Act?(2)Whether  single non-recurring premia or salamis  paid  tothe landlord assessee as consideration for the settlement ofagricultural  land once only at the time of  granting  leasewhen such premia or salamis are not dependent on the rate ofrent charged, can be held to be income within the meaning ofthe Act ?The  Calcutta  High Court by its judgment  dated  April	 12,1945,  held  these receipts to be  "  agricultural  income."Against	 this  judgment	 an appeal was taken  to  the  PrivyCouncil	 but  on the abolition of the  jurisdiction  of	 thePrivy  Council	the appeal was transferred  to	the  FederalCourt  and was heard by that court as C. A. No. 30 of  1949.That  court  set aside the judgment of the  High  Court	 andremitted the case to the High Court " to be dealt with againafter ascertaining and considering the following  additionalfactors likely1022to  show the true nature of the receipts described  as	  Itsalami in the present case."  1. The number of settlement of waste lands and  abandonedholdings during the accounting year and, the maximum and theminimum extents settled and salami received.2.   Does the salami vary with the quality of the land,	 thefacilities for irrigation and such other favourable  factors?3.   How many tenants ejected under section 69 during  theaccounting  year  and how long they had been  in  occupationbefore such eviction?4.   Is salami received when lands are relet after eviction?5.   Is salami that is paid in the zamindary of the assesseein  the	 nature of a I present' given by the tenant  to	 thelandlord for the permission to occupy the land or whether itis in substance a premium payable by lessee at the inceptionof the tenancy?After the remand the case was again stated by the Member  ofAssam  Board  of Agricultural Income Tax, Dr.  Goswami,	 andanswers to these questions were :1.   Total  number of settlements were 414,  maximum  extentbeing  59  bighas  2 Cottahs and 10 Dhurs,  and	 salami	 Rs.161-8-61  and  minimum	extent was  15	Cottahs	 and  salamireceived therefrom Rs. 2-11-9.2.   Rate  of salami varies with the quality of	 the  lands,two  fixed rates being Rs. 7 per bigha for jungle lands	 andRs. 10 per bigha for non-jungle lands.3.   There  was no eviction of tenants under section  69  ofthe  Goalpara Tenancy Act, but action was taken in  a  largenumber of cases under section 68 of that Act.4.   Salami is realized when lands are relet after eviction.5.   Salami  is	 not in the nature of a present.   It  is  acompulsory  payment  by the tenant to the  landlord  at	 theinception of the tenancy.In  the	 Statement  of	the Case the  Board  said  that	 thezamindar's business or vocation was letting out holdings			    1023against	 payment.  The area of land held by him was a  largeone  "which  he	 lets out piecemeal to	various	 tenants  onconditions among others that the would be tenant will  firstpay a fee which he prefers to call salami' and that he	willpay an annual rent.  " It held that this payment was not  "awindfall",  that  the " isalami' arose from  the  landlord'sbusiness  of  letting out his lands, and............  is  anincome",  that because of the " regularity or periodicity  "attached  to the receipt of salami, " it satisfies the	testof I income ' " and therefore the amounts received as salamiwere agricultural income " within s. 2(a)(1) of the Act.On  a consideration of the facts found by the Board in	thiscase  and after reference to the reported judgments  of	 thevarious	 courts,  the  Calcutta High  Court  held  that	 theamounts	 received  by  the assessee as	salami	were  not  "agricultural income " and the Board has brought this  appeal(C.A. No. 162 of 1955) against that judgment.In  the	 Assam Appeals also the areas of land  held  by	 theassessees  were	 large	and total income in the	 case  of  "Parbatjoar  estate  " was Rs. 1,15,510 and in  the  case  ofMechpara  estate  it was Rs. 2,82,106  which  was  divisibleamongst the various co-sharers.	 Salami rates in  Parbatjoarestate varied from Rs. 7 per.bigha for forest land to Rs. 10per bigha for other lands depending upon the quality of	 theland.  In Mechpara estate the rates in hilly tracts were Re.1 to Rs. 2 for good sail land and Re.  1 to Rs. 6 for  otherclass  of land and in the plains they varied from Rs.  2  toRs.  3	for good sail land, and Re.  1 to Rs.  6  for  otherlands  and As. 8 to Re.	 1 for newly formed Char lands.	  InBijni  Raj  estate the minimum salami was Re.  1  per  bighairrespective  of the area of the land.	In  Gauripur  estatethe  holdings  were  settled by auction and  the  amount  ofsalami	was  determined by the demand,	depending  upon	 thequality	 of land and facilities for  irrigation.   Similarly;in  the  Chapter  Trust estate	 holdings  were	 settled  byauction.  The finding of the High Court was:"  It is abundantly clear from the above statement of  factsthat the rates of salami vary with the quality1024 land  in each estate.	They have no relation to rent  whichis  admittedly	fixed  and  invariable.Lands  are  settled generally in small plots.	The  highestfigure	received  as salami in a single transaction  in	 theyears with which we are concerned was in Parbatjoar.  A	 sumof Rs. 621 was received on a settlement of an area measuring88 B., 14 K., 15 D. In Mechpara an area measuring 165 B., 16K.,  12 D., was settled for Rs. 318.  The minimum extent  ofarea settled in one transaction was also in Mechpara.  Landsmeasuring only 2 K. was settled.  Salami received was Rs. 3-5-0.  Between these two extremes the extent of areas settledvaries.	 "There were no evictions under s. 69 of the Assam Tenancy Actof  non-occupancy tenants but ejectments did take place	 andaction	was  taken under s. 68 of the Act.   After  the	 re-statement of the case on the lines suggested by the  FederalCourt, the Assam High Court held that " salami " is not rentbut   revenue	derived	  from	 land	and   is   thereforeincome..............The question for decision is whether the amounts received assalami	are  rent  or revenue within  the  definition  of  "agricultural  income " and therefore liable to	agriculturalincome tax.The basis of the first Calcutta judgment dated May 12, 1945,in  C.A. No. 162 of 1955 was that salamis were a normal	 andregular feature of these estates and there was	periodicity.When  the matter came up in appeal to the Federal Court	 thelearned	 Chief Justice was of the opinion that	the  receipttermed	salami	if nothing more is stated in respect  of  itcannot be treated as a capital receipt and therefore  exemptfrom  taxation	nor could it merely as such  be	 treated  asincome	and therefore assessable to income-tax.	 Mahajan  J.(as  he	 then  was)  said: " It may  be	 a  recurring  or  aperiodical payment if it is a fee or a fine levied  annuallyon  the holder of rent-free tenures as a quit rent;  on	 theother  hand,  it  may  not be  a  periodical  payment  or  arecurring  payment  if	it is in the  form  of	gratuity  oroffering on receiving a lease or settling for the revenue oron  receiving  any favour real or implied." He	was  of	 theopinion that in the former case it would be agricultural102income	but in the latter case it would be a capita  receiptbeing the price for that small " modicum of ownership  whichthe  landlord transfers to the tenant.' In the Assam cases Ram Labhaya J. said that by settling thelands and accepting salami the landlord parts with the rightof immediate occupation.The  characteristics and incidence of salami disclosed	fromthe  " statements of the cases " are that it is a  lump	 sumnon-recurring  receipt of money by a landlord from a  tenantbefore making a settlement of the holding which in C.A.	 No.162  of 1955 varied from Rs. 7 to Rs. 10 per bigha  and	 wasless in other cases.  He is also entitled to charge a  fixedperiodical  amount of 11 annas per bigha per annum.   Salamiis charged when. ever a fresh settlement is made whether  itis  of	a  piece of virgin land or  of	an  auction-purchaseholding.   Thus	 salami	 is a payment by  a  tenant  to	 thelandlord antecedent to the constitution of the	relationshipof  landlord  and  tenant.  It is really a  payment  by	 thetenant to the landlord for being allowed to take  possessionof  the land for cultivation under the lease.  In all  thosecases under appeal the leases were oral and the duration andconditions  thereof  were  regulated by	 Statute  The  AssamTenancy	 Act.	Salami	is not	a  recurring  or  periodicalpayment or a fee or fine levied at fixed intervals from	 thetenant for the same holding.  In these cases it has not beencontended or even suggested nor was it contended before	 theFederal Court that salami is capitalised rent.	As a  matterof  fact the Federal Court found that it was not rent.	 In'consideration of the payment of salami an estate in land  istransferred  by	 the  landlord to the  tenant  although	 theestate	taken by the tenant in the first instance is a	non-occupancy  tenancy which grows into an occupancy tenancy  bythe  efflux of time.  But in no case in any of	the  appealswas action taken under s. 69 of the Assam Tenancy Act  whichregulates  the	rights	and  liabilities  of   non-occupancytenants	 and  no tenant was ejected from  his  non-occupancytenancy.  On the other hand whenever action had to be  takenfor non-payment of rent and ejectment it was taken1321026under s. 68 of the Goalpara Tenancy Act.  This section s  asfollows:A  permanent tenure-holder, a raiyat at fixed rates,  or  anoccupancy  tenant,  shall  not be liable  to  ejectment	 forarrears	 of rent, but his tenure or holding shall be  liableto  sale in execution of a decree for the rent thereof,	 andthe  rent shall be a first charge thereon. In  execution  ofdecrees	 for  arrears of rent the estates of  the  occupancytenants	 were  sold, the purchaser in all  cases  being	 thelandlord himself and thus for recovering the arrears of rentthe  landlord  had  to bring to sale the  right,  title	 andinterest  of his tenant and after purchase of this right  herelet the land, on receiving the salami from the new tenant.This  process  again shows that the landlord did  part	withsome   interest	 in  land,  which  cannot  be  said  to	  beprecarious,  when he made the settlement of land on  receiptof  salami, which was a single nonrecurring payment  by	 thelessee for the acquisition of his rights under the lease.  "Agricultural  income"  which,  it is claimed  by  the  Boardcomprises salami, has been defined in s. 2(a)(i) of the Act.The relevant portion of this section is:S.2(a)(i).   Any rent or revenue derived from land which  isused  for agricultural purposes, and is either	assessed  toland  revenue in Assam or subject to a local  rate  assessedand collected by officers of the Government as such.Salami	is not rent and, therefore, unless it is revenue  itwill not fall within this definition."   Income"   was  described  by  Sir  George	Lowndes	  inCommissioner  of Income Tax v. Shaw Wallace & Co. (1) as  "aperiodical  monetary  return  coming in with  some  sort  ofregularity, or expected regularity, from definite  sources."In  Captain  Maharaj Kumar Gopal Saran Narain Singh  v.	 TheCommissioner of Income Tax, Bihar & Orissa (2), Lord Russellof  Killowen after referring to the definition given by	 SirGeorge Lowndes held that life annuity paid out of an  estateis income.(1) (1932) L.R. 59 I.A. 2o6, 212.(2) (1935) L.R. 62 I.A. 207.1027Salami	was  described by Lord Wright  in  Kamakshya  NarainSingh  v.  The COMMissioner of Income Tax (1), a case  of  agrant  of a mining lease for a period of 999 years,  in	 thefollowing words:" The salami has been, rightly, in their  Lordships'opinion,treated	 as a capital receipt.	It is a single payment	madefor  the  acquisition of the right of lessees to  enjoy	 thebenefits  granted to them by the lease.	 That general  rightmay  properly be regarded as a capital asset, and the  moneypaid to purchase it may properly be held to be a payment  oncapital account."The importance lies in the use of the words "the money	paidto purchase it ", i.e., the right of the lessee to enjoy thebenefits granted under the lease.In  Raja  Shiv Prasad Singh v. The Crown(2) where  also	 thelease  was a mining lease for a period of 999 years,  salamiwas described as a sum which is payable at the inception  ofthe  lease and as a nonrecurring payment in the nature of  apremium for granting a lease.In  Commissioner  of  Income  Tax  v.  Maharajadhiraj  KumarVisheshwar Singh (3) an area measuring 41 bighas of land wassettled	 for an indefinite (bemead) period on a yearly	rentand  in the event of default of two consecutive	 instalmentsthe  lessee  could be dispossessed and was  also  liable  toother  penalties.  This land was settled with the lessee  toenable him to build a "	 gola house" and a platform for	 therice  mill.   The lease was taken to be in the nature  of  apermanent lease and it was held that salami represented	 theprice  for  parting  with the land and	was  not  merely  anadvance	 rent and as it was not a recurring payment, it	 didnot fall within the definition of the word 'income' as givenin  Commissioner  of Income Tax v. Shaw Wallace &  Co.	(4).Manoharlal  J. who gave a concurrent judgment, at  page	 824described  salami  as the amount of money which	 a  landlord"insists  on receiving as a condition precedent for  partingwith  the land in favour of the lessee." lie also held	thatsalami(1)  (1943) L.R. 70 I.A. 180, 190.(2)  (1924) I.L.R. 4 Patna 73.(3)  (1939) I.L.R. 18 Patna 805.(4)  (1932) L.R. 59 I.A. 206, 212.1028could  not be treated as a revenue receipt and that  it	 wasreceived by the landlord "not because of the use of the landbut  before the land was put into use by the assessee."	 Thesame court in Province of Bihar v. Maharaja Protap Udai NathSahi Deo (1) followed the definition of the word 'salami' asgiven in Kumar Visheshwar Singh's case.	 Harries C.J.  thereheld that where salami cannot be regarded as payment of rentin advance, it will not be income and would, therefore,	 notbe taxable.  He said "prima facie, salami is not income, andit  is	impossible  upon the facts as  stated  to  say	thatsalamis	 received...............  constitute  part  of	 hisincome."Rankin C.J. in Re Gooptu Estate Limited (2) held payment  ofone lakh of rupees as salami not to be income.	In that caseit  was	 demanded and paid in respect of resettlement  of  alease  which  had  still to run for 48 years  but  had	beenforfeited for the non-payment of rent.In certain cases, however, payment by way of salami has beenheld  to  be  'agricultural income'.   In  Birendra  KishoreManikya v. Secretary of State for India (3) it was held thatthe   consideration  for  the  grant  of  a  lease  is	 thecapitalised value of the sum periodically payable along withthe premium so that "the larger the one element the  smallerthe  other."  On  this	basis  the  premium  paid  for	 thesettlement of waste lands or abandoned holdings was regardedas  rent or revenue' derived from land and therefore  withinthe definition of agricultural income in section 2(1)(a)  ofthe  Indian  Income  Tax Act.  This was	 a  case  which	 wasdecided	 under	the Indian Income Tax Act and  the  questionwhether	 it  was a capital receipt or  revenue	receipt	 andtherefore exempt or not from taxation did not arise  becausethe  Bengal Agricultural Income Tax Act was passed  in	1944and  the  Assam Act in 1939.  It was not necessary  for	 thepurpose	 of  that case to decide whether it  was  a  capitalreceipt	 or  revenue  because what was	to  be	decided	 waswhether salami was(1)  (1947) I.L.R. 20 Patna 699, 722.(2)  (1929) 50 C.L.J. 375.(3) (1920) I.L.R. 48 Cal, 766.1029exempt from income-tax under s. 2(a)(i) of the Indian IncomeTax  Act.  As a matter of fact the assessee argued  in	thatcase  that  these sums constituted "  agricultural  income".Moreover  the dictum the smaller the salami the	 higher	 therent  and  vice-versa  did not	receive	 acceptance  by	 theFederal	 Court	when the present matter was  heard  in	thatcourt before remand (C.A. No. 30 of 1949).In  Meher  Bano Khanum v. Secretary of	State  for  India(1)'salami'  was  defined	to  be an  amount  received  by	 thelandlord  for  the  recognition of the transfer	 of  a	non-transferable holding which was paid to the landlord  becauseof   his  ownership  of	 the  land.   It  was  held  to	  be"agricultural income" as it was "rent or revenue" within themeaning	 of  that  expression.	 The  Standing	Counsel	 whoappeared  for the Secretary of State in that  case  concededthat it was not revenue but his argument was that it was notrevenue derived from land but that it was an incident of thetransfer and not of tenancy and therefore did not flow	fromthe  land.  In neither of these cases was it argued  whethersalami was a revenue receipt or capital receipt.In  a  Full Bench of the Patna High Court in  Raja  RajendraNarayan	 Bhanja	 Deo  v. Commissioner of  Income  Tax  (2  )mutation  fees were held to be agricultural income but	thatwas a case of payment after the relationship of landlord andtenant	 had   come  into  existence.	Similarly   in	 theCommissioner  of Income Tax v. K. C. Manavikraman Rajah	 (3)monies	paid  for  the renewal of leases  were	held  to  beagricultural income within the meaning of s. 2(1)(a) of	 theIndian Income Tax Act.	Here again the monies were paid	 notfor  the  constitution of the relationship of  landlord	 andtenant	but after that relationship had come into  existenceand for its continuance.In H. H. Maharaja Sir Bir Bikram Kishore Manikya Bahadur  v.The  Province  of Assam (1), a case under the  Act,  HarriesC.J. referred to Kamakshya Narain Singh's case (5) and	heldthat it had to be decided on(1)(1925) I.L.R. 53 Cal. 34.(2)  (1929) I.L.R. 9 Patna 1.(3)  I.L.R. 1945 Mad. 837.(4)  (1948) 53 C.W.N. 164.(5)  (1943) L.R. 70 I.A. 18o, 190.1030the  facts  of	each case whether  salami  was	agriculturalincome	or not because it was not known in respect  of	whattransaction the amount was received.The Orissa High Court in S. M. Bose v. Secretary, 'Board  ofRevenue (1) has held that salami is not a payment of rent inadvance nor is it income but is a payment by way of  capitalreceipt.  It was contended before us that the Privy  Councilin Kamakshya Narain Singh's case (2 ) based its decision  onthe  wasting nature of the assets under the lease.  But	 thedefinition given by Lord Wright is in general terms and justdescribes  what the characteristics of a payment by  way  ofsalami are without any reference as to the nature of  assetsunder a lease.In  all	 these	appeals	 before	 us  the  assessees  derivedconsiderably  large  amounts  of  income  from	agriculturalholdings.   It	is not shown as to what the  number  of	 theholdings  were but they must have been	considerably  large.On   the   other  hand	the  number   of   settlements	 wascomparatively	small  a  few  hundreds	 and  consisted	  ofsettlements  of virgin lands as well as of  auction-purchaselands and were not derived from the same holdings at regularintervals.   This  and	the findings  of  fact	given  abovenegative  the finding as to "regularity and periodicity"  ofpayment of salami and also that it "arose out of business ofletting	 out his land." The payments by way of	salami	weremade by the prospective lessees anterior to the constitutionof the relationship of landlord and tenant as the price	 forthe  lessor  agreeing  to the parting of his  rights  in  anagricultural holding in favour of the proposed lessee.In  Principles	of Mohamadan Law by Macnaughton	 ,salami  isdefined	 as;"a free gift by way of compliment or in return of a favour."In Wilson's Glossary the meaning given to it is:" a complimentary present, a douceur............ ; a presentto  a superior upon being introduced to him; a	gratuity  oroffering on receiving a lease...........(1) A.I.R. 1955 Orissa 288.(2) (1943) L.R. 7o I.A. 180, 190.1031In the Arabic-English Dictionary by Johnson it means:"  a  present  on being introduced to  a  superior;  earnestmoney;	a  free gift from a farmer to Government  on  takinglands..........."In Vol.	 I of Baden Powell's "Land Systems of British India"it is stated at page 543;".......the  Zamindar,	to  raise money, had  sold  so	manytaluqs or under farms for 'salami' or fees paid downThus all these definitions show that salami is a payment  bythe  tenant  as	 a present or as price for  parting  by	 thelandlord  with his rights under the lease of a holding.	  Itis a lump sum payment as consideration for what the landlordtransfers to the tenant.The manner in which the leases were dealt with and the	factthat 'in no case was a non-occupancy tenant evicted and	 histenure was allowed to mature into an occupancy holding showsthat  the leases were in practice not so precarious  as	 wassuggested by the Board, but had an element of stability	 andpermanency attached to them.  Therefore, when a tenant	paidsalami he did so in order to get in return an estate in	 theland  owned  by the zamindar.  Salami is thus not  rent	 andboth  parties have proceeded on that basis and it could	 notbe called revenue within the meaning of the word used in thedefinition  of agricultural income under s. 2(1)(a)  of	 theAct  because it was a payment to the landlord by the  tenantas a consideration for the transfer of a right in  zamindarilands  owned  by  the landlord.	 It has	 therefore  all	 thecharacteristics of a capital payment and is not revenue.In the result appeal No. 162 of 1955 brought by the State ofAssam  is  dismissed with costs throughout and	the  appealsbrought	 by the assessees in C.A. Nos. 38 to 44 of 1956	 areallowed,  the judgment of the High Court set aside  and	 thereferred questions answered in the negative.  The  assesseeswill  have  their  costs in this court in one  set  and	 thecourts	below  except  in appeal No. 42 of  1956  where	 theappellant was not present,1032but it appears that she could not be served and given noticeof  the hearing of the appeal and, therefore,  although	 herappeal is allowed, as it is based on a point common to otherappeals,  the  parties will bear their	own  costs  in	thatappeal.Appeal	No. 162 of 1955 dismissed. Appeals Nos. 38 to 44 of 1956 allowed.