PETITIONER:M/S.  TUNGABHADRA INDUSTRIES LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMERCIAL TAX OFFICER, KURNOOL.DATE OF JUDGMENT:18/10/1960BENCH:AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALABENCH:AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALADAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR  412		  1961 SCR  (2)	 14 CITATOR INFO : R	    1964 SC1372	 (3,12,13) RF	    1974 SC1362	 (5) R	    1978 SC 945	 (13,15) R	    1978 SC1496	 (12) RF	    1980 SC1227	 (6) D	    1981 SC1649	 (13) E&R	    1985 SC1293	 (84) RF	    1989 SC 516	 (17,18) C	    1989 SC1316	 (13) F	    1990 SC  27	 (7)ACT:Sales	Tax--Hydrogenated  groundnut  oil  (Vanaspati),	  ifgroundnut  oil--Madras	General	 Sales	Tax  (Turnover	 andAssessment) Rules, 1939, rr. 4, 5 and 18.HEADNOTE:The  appellant	purchased groundnuts out of which  it  manu-factured  groundnut  oil  ;  it also  refined  the  oil	 andhydrogenated  it converting it into Vanaspati.	It sold	 theoil in all the three states.  Under the Madras General SalesTax  Act, 1939, and the Turnover and Assessment	 Rules,	 fordetermining the taxable turnover the appellant was  entitledto  deduct  the purchase price of the  groundnuts  from	 theproceeds  of the sale of all groundnut oil.  The High  Courtheld  that  the appellant was entitled to the  deduction  inrespect of the sales of unrefined and refined groundnut	 oilbut  not in respect of the sales of hydrogenated oil on	 theground	that  Vanaspati	 was not " groundnut  oil  "  but  aproduct of groundnut oil.Held,  that the appellant was entitled to the  deduction  inrespect	 of  the sales of hydrogenated groundnut  oil  also.The  hydrogenated groundnut oil continued to be "  groundnutoil  " notwithstanding the processing which was	 merely	 forthe  purpose  of  rendering  the oil  more  stable.   To  begroundnut oil two conditions had to be satisfied-it must  befrom groundnut and it must be " oil ". The hydrogenated	 oilwas  from groundnut and in its essential nature it  remainedan  oil.  It continued to be used for the same	purposes  asgroundnut oil which had not undergone the process.  A liquidstate was not an essential characteristic of a vegetable oil; the mere fact that hydrogenation made it semisolid did notalter its character as an oil.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 498 of 1958.Appeal from the judgment and order dated February 11,  1955,of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in T. R. C. No. 120 of 1953arising	 out  of the judgment and order dated  December	 29,1952, of the Sales Tax Tribunal, Madras, in Tribunal  AppealNo. 857 of 1951.A.   V. Viswanatha Sastri, M. Ranganatha Sastri and M. S. K.Sastri, for the appellants.D. Narasaraju, Advocate-General for the State of15Andhra Pradesh., T. V. R. Tatachari, D. Venkatappayya Sastriand T. M. Sen, for the respondent.1960.  October 18.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyAYYANGAR  J.-This appeal on a certificate under Art. 133  ofthe Constitution granted by the High Court of Andhra Pradeshraises	for consideration principally the  question  whetherhardened  or  hydrogenated groundnut  oil  (commonly  calledVanaspati)  is " groundnut oil " within the meaning of	Rule18(2) of the Madras General Sales-Tax (Turnover and  Assess-ment) Rules, 1939.Tungabhadra Industries Ltd.-the appellant in this appeal-hasa  factory of considerable size at Kurnool in the  State  ofAndhra	Pradesh.   The	company	 purchases  groundnuts	 andgroundnut   kernels  within  the  State	  and	manufacturesgroundnut  oil and also refined oil as well as	hydrogenatedoil all of which it sells.  The appeal is concerned with theassessment to salestax of this company for the year 1949-50.Section 3 of the Madras General Sales-Tax Act, 1939, enacts:" 3. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act,-(a) every dealer shall pay for each year a tax on his  totalturnover for such year; and(b)  the  tax shall be calculated at the rate of three	piesfor every rupee in such turnover.(2).............................................(3).............................................(4)  For  the  purposes	 of  this  section  and	 the   otherprovisions  of	this Act, turnover shall  be  determined  inaccordance with such rules as may be prescribed:Provided  that	no such rules shall come into  force  unlessthey  are  approved  by	 a  resolution	of  the	 LegislativeAssembly.(5)  The  taxes	 under	sub-sections (1) and  (2)  shall  beassessed,  levied and collected in such manner and  in	suchinstallments, if any, as may be prescribed:Provided that-(i)  in	 respect of the same transaction of sale, the  buyeror the seller, but not both, as determined by16(ii) where  a  dealer  has been taxed  in  respect  of	 thepurchase of any goods in accordance with the rules  referredto  in	clause (i) of this proviso, he shall  not  be  taxedagain in respect of any sale of such goods effected by him."Rules  were  made by virtue inter alia of  these  provisionsentitled  "  The  Madras  General  Sales-Tax  Turnover	 andAssessment  Rules, 1939 ". Of these, those relevant  to	 thepresent context are Rules 4 & 5. Rule 4 reads:"4.(1)	Save as provided in sub rule (2) the gross  turnoverof  a  dealer for the purposes of these rules shall  be	 theamount for which goods are sold by the dealer.(2)  In	 the  case  of the undermentioned  goods  the  grossturnover  of a dealer for the purposes of these rules  shallbe the amount for which the goods are bought by the dealer-(a) groundnut-".The result of the combined operation of s. 4(1)&(2) in	the'case  of  those who purchased groundnut and  having  crushedthem sold the oil obtained was, that they had to pay tax  onboth  their  purchases of groundnut and their sales  of	 oilproduced therefrom.  This was considered by the rule  makingauthority to be an unfair burden and relief was	 accordinglyprovided  by Rules 5 and 18 of the same rules, the  materialportions of which ran:"  5.  (1) The tax or taxes under section 3......  shall  belevied on the net turnover of a dealer.	 In determining	 thenet  turnover  the amounts specified in clauses (a)  to	 (1)shall,	subject	 to  the conditions  specified	therein,  bededucted from the gross turnover of a dealer.Clause (k) of this rule reads:(k)  in	 the case of a registered manufacturer of  groundnutoil and cake, the amount which he is entitled to deduct fromhis  gross turnover under rule 18 subject to the  conditionsspecified in that rule."(This  rule was amended by a notification dated November  9,1951, by the addition of the words17" groundnut oil ", but this modification of the rule is	 notrelevant  to  the present case which is concerned  with	 theassessment of a period anterior to the modification).Rule  18 referred to here reads, to quote only the  materialwords:" 18. (1) Any dealer who manufactures groundnut oil and cakefrom  groundnut	 and/or	 kernel purchased  by  him  may,  onapplication  to the assessing authority having	jurisdictionover  the  area	 in which he carries  on  his  business,  beregistered as a manufacturer of groundnut oil and cake.(2)  Every  such  registered manufacturer of  groundnut	 oilwill be entitled to a deduction under clause (k) of sub-rule(1)  of	 rule 5 equal to the value of the  groundnut  and/orkernel, purchased by him and converted into oil and cake  ifhe has paid the tax to the State on such purchases:Provided  that	the  amount for which the  oil	is  sold  isincluded in his net turnover:Provided further that the amount of the turnover in  respectof which deduction is allowed shall not exceed-the amount ofthe  turnover  attributable to the groundnut  and/or  kernelused  in  the  manufacture of oil and included	in  the	 netturnover.Explanation.-For the purpose of this sub-rule(a) 143 lb.  ofgroundnut  shall  be taken to be equivalent to	100  lb.  ofkernel;(b)  143  lb.  of  groundnut  or  100  lb.  of	kernel	whenconverted into oil will normally be taken to yield 40 lb. ofoil; and(c)  one candy of oil shall be taken to be equivalent to 500lb. of oil."Then  follow other provisions not relevant for the  purposesof the present appeal.The appellant was registered as a manufacturer of  groundnutoil  under  r.	18(1).	That  the  appellant  purchased	 thegroundnuts, the value of which was claimed as a deduction inthe turnover within the State and paid tax on such  purchaseto  the	 State	was  not in  dispute.	Nor  was  there	 anycontroversy that the sale18price  of  the oil expressed out of and sold either  as	 rawgroundnut oil, refined oil or hydrogenated oil was, includedin the turnover of the appellant.The  Deputy Commercial Tax Officer, Kurnool,  who  completedthe  assessment	 of the appellant accepted  the	 figures  ofpurchases  and sales submitted by it, and dealing  with	 theclaim  for  the	 deduct-ion of the purchase  price  of.	 thegroundnuts  from the proceeds of the sale of all oil by	 thecompany-raw, refined and hydrogenated-granted a deduction inrespect of the purchase price of the groundnuts attributableto  the unrefined oil sold by the appellant, but  held	thatthe  appellant was not entitled to the deduction claimed  inrespect of the refined and hydrogenated oil for the  reasonthat it was only unrefined or unprocessed groundnut oil thatwas  connoted  by  the expression  groundnut  oil'  in	rule5(1)(k)	 read  with rule 18(1) and (2) of the  Turnover	 andAssessment  Rules.  This order of the Deputy Commercial	 TaxOfficer was affirmed by the Commercial Tax Officer on appealand  the appellant filed a further appeal to  the  Sales-TaxAppellate Tribunal.  The second appellate authority  upfieldthe  contention	 of the appellant in regard to the  sale  ofrefined	 oil but rejected it in so far as it related to	 thesales  of  hydrogenated	 oil.	The  matter  was  thereafterbrought up before the High Court of Andhra Pradesh by a	 TaxRevision  Case	filed under s. 13(b)(1) of the Act  and	 thelearned	  Judges  upheld  the  view  of	 the  Tribunal	 anddisallowed  the	 claim	of the appellant  to  the  deductionclaimed in regard to the sales turnover of hydrogenated oil.They  granted  the  certificate under  Art.  133  which	 hasenabled the appellant to file an appeal to this Court.The  claim of the appellant to the deduction under r.  18(2)on  the	 sales	of refined groundnut oil  is  no  longer  indispute.  The ground upon which both the Tribunal as well asthe  High  Court  decided  against  the	 allowance  of	 thededuction in respect of the sales of hydrogenated oil, whileupholding the appellants' case as regards refined oil may bebriefly	 stated	 thus: The exemption or deduction  from	 thesale-turnover  under  r. 18(2), is on its  terms  applicableonly to the sale of the oil in the form in which it is	whenextracted19out of the kernel.  When raw groundnut oil is converted intorefined oil, there is no doubt processing, but this consistsmerely	in removing from raw groundnut oil that	 constituentpart  of the raw oil which is not really oil.  The  elementsremoved in the refining process consist of free fatty acids,phosphotides  and unsaponifiable matter.  After the  removalof  this nonoleic matter therefore, the oil continues to  beground.	 nut oil and nothing more.  The matter removed	fromthe  raw groundnut oil not being oil cannot be	used,  afterseparation, as oil or for any purpose for which oil could beused.	In other words, the processing consists in the	non-oily  content  of the raw oil being separated  and  removed,rendering  the	oily content of the oil 100 per	 cent.	 Forthis reason refined oil continues to be groundnut oil withinthe meaning of rules 5(1)(k) and 18(2) notwithstanding	thatsuch  oil  does not possess the	 characteristic	 colour,  ortaste, odour, etc. of the raw groundnut oil.But  in the case of hydrogenated oil which is prepared fromrefined	 oil by the process of passing hydrogen into  heatedoil  in the presence of a catalyst (usually finely  powderednickel),  two atoms of hydrogen are absorbed.  A portion  ofthe  oleic acid which formed a good part of the	 content  ofthe  groundnut	oil in its raw state is	 converted,  by	 theabsorption  of the hydrogen atoms, into stearic acid and  itis this which gives the characteristic appearance as well asthe semi-solid-condition which it attains.  In the  languageof  the	 Chemist,  an  inter-molecular	or   configurationalchemical  change takes place which results in the  hardeningof  the oil.  Though it continues to be the same edible	 fatthat  it  was  before the  hardening,  and  its	 nutritionalproperties  continue  to be the same, it  has  acquired	 newproperties  in	that the tendency to  rancidity	 is  greatlyremoved,  is  easier  to keep and to  transport.   Both	 theTribunal  as  well as the learned Judges of the	 High  Courtheld  that the hydrogenated oil (or Vanaspati) ceased to  begroundnut  oil by reason of the chemical changes which	tookplace  which resulted in the acquisition of  new  propertiesincluding the loss of its fluidity. In other words,20they  held  that Vanaspati or hydrogenated oil	was   not  "groundnut oil " but a product of groundnut oil, manufacturedout  of	 groundnut  oil and therefore not  entitled  to	 thebenefit of the deduction under r. 18(2).The  arguments of Mr. Visvanatha Sastri for  the  appellantswere  briefly two: (1) The reasons behind the rules  5(k)  &18(2)  which  were designed to afford  relief  against	whatwould  amount  practically to double taxation  of  the	sameassessee both when he purchased and when he sold the  goods,required  that the appellants' claim should be allowed.	 (2)Hydrogenated  groundnut oil was no less groundnut  oil	thaneither	refined	 or even unrefined oil.	 The fact  that	 thequality	 of the oil had been improved does not negative	 itscontinuing   to	 be  oil  and  the  materials	before	 thedepartmental  authorities and the Court established that  itcontinued to be oil and was nothing more.The argument based on the reason of the rule can. not  carrythe  appellant	far,  since in the present  case  it  is  anexemption  from tax which he invokes and of which  he  seeksthe  benefit.  If the words of the rule are insufficient  tocover the case, the reason behind the rule cannot be availedof to obtain the relief Nor could it be said to be a case ofdouble	taxation of the same goods at the purchase and	salepoints	which  is forbidden by s. 3(5) of the Act.   If	 theview  adopted by the learned Judges of the High	 Court	thathydrogenated  groundnut oil is not " groundnut oil "  but  aproduct	 of  groundnut oil were correct, learned  Coun.	 selcannot urge that he would still be entitled to the deductionfor which provision is made in r. 18(2).Consequently it is the second of the submissions alone whichreally	requires to be examined.  In doing so it  would	 beconvenient  to consider the reasoning on the basis of  whichthe  view' that hydrogenated oil was not " groundnut  oil  "was sought to be sustained before us.The learned Advocate-General of Andhra Pradesh who  appearedfor the respondent-Commercial Tax Officer sought to  supportthe  decision of the High Court by two lines  of  reasoning.The first was that21the  exemption	applied only to the sale of the	 oil  as  itemerged from the presser and that any processing of the	 oilincluding refining, in order to remove even' the  impuritiesand  free  fatty  acids, took it out of the  category  of  "groundnut  oil	" as used in the rule.	In support  of	thissubmission  he	referred us to the Table  of  Conversion  ofgroundnuts and kernel into oil set out in the Explanation tor.  18(2), extracted earlier, and submitted that the 40	 lb.of oil for every 100 lb. of kernel was based on the yield ofraw  groundnut	oil  and that this was	an  indication	thatnothing	 other	than raw groundnut oil was  intended  to  becovered by the expression " groundnut oil " in the rule.We  must however point out that this last submission has  nofactual	 basis to support it.  It is not known	whether	 theproportion  of	40 lb. of oil for every 100  lb.  of  kernelrepresents  the	 average  weight  of  oil  extractable	fromdifferent  varieties of groundnut kernels or is the  averageof the different types of oils which may be produced out  ofdifferent  varieties  of  kernels.  In the  absence  of	 anydefinite data in this regard it is impossible to accept	 theargument   that	 the  Table  of	 Conversion  justifies	 anyparticular construction of what was meant by " groundnut oil" in the main part of the rule.Nor  is	 the learned Advocate-General  well-founded  in	 hissubmission that the processing of the oil in order to renderit more acceptable to the customer by improving its  qualitywould render the oil a commodity other than " groundnut	 oil"  within the meaning of the rule, For instance, if the	 oilas  extracted  were kept still in a vessel for a  period  oftime, the sediment normally present in the oil would  settleat  the bottom leaving a clear liquid to be drawn out.	 Thelearned Advocate-General cannot go so far as to say, that ifthis  physical	process was gone through, the oil  that	 wasdecanted from the sediment which it contained when it issuesout  of the expresser, ceased to be di groundnut oil  "	 forthe purposes of the rule.  If the removal of impurities by aprocess	 of sedimentation does not render groundnut oil	 anythe  less so, it follows that even the process of  refining,by the22application of chemical methods for removing impuri ties  inthe  oil, would not detract from the resulting oil  being  "groundnut  oil	" for the purpose of the rule.	 It  may  bementioned that processes have been discovered by which	evenon extraction from the oil mill, the oil issues without	 anytrace  of  free fatty acids.  It could hardly  be  contendedthat  if such processes were adopted what comes out  of	 theexpresser  is  not  groundnut oil.  The	 submission  of	 thelearned	 Advocate-General  based on a  contention  that	 theTribunal  and the learned Judges of the High Court erred  inholding that even refined groundnut oil was " groundnut	 oil" for the purpose of the rule, must be rejected.The  next  question  is whether if  beyond  the	 process  ofrefinement of the oil, the oil is hardened, again by the useof chemical processes it is rendered any the less  groundnutoil ". In regard to this, the learned Advocate-General firstlaid  stress  on  the fact that while  normally	 oil  was  aviscous liquid, the hydrogenated oil was semi-solid and thatthis change in its physical state was itself indicative of asubstantial  modification of the identity of the  substance.We  are unable to accept this argument.	 No  doubt,  severaloils  are  normally viscous fluids, but they do	 harden	 andassume	 semi-solid  condition	on  the	 lowering   of	 thetemperature.	Though	 groundnut   oil   is,	 at   normaltemperature,  a	 viscous  liquid, it  assumes  a  semi-solidcondition if kept for a long enough time in a  refrigerator.It is therefore not correct to say that a liquid state is anessential characteristic of a vegetable oil and that if	 theoil is not liquid, it ceases to be oil.	 Mowrah oil and Dhupoil  are instances where vegetable oils assume a  semi-solidstate  even  at	 normal temperatures.	Neither	 these,	 norcocoanut  oil which hardens naturally on even a slight	fallin temperature, could be denied the name of oils because  oftheir not being liquid.	 Other fats like ghee are  instanceswhere the physical state does not determine the identity  ofthe commodity.The next submission of the learned Advocate General was thatin the course of hydrogenation the oil23absorbed two atoms of hydrogen and that there was an  inter-molecular  change  in the content of  the  substance.	Thishowever	 is not decisive of the matter.	 The  question	thathas  still  to	be  answered  is  whether  hydrogenated	 oilcontinues even after the change to be " groundnut oil ".  Ifit is, it would be entitled to the benefit of the  deductionfrom  the turnover, or to put it slightly  differently,	 thebenefit	 of,  the  deduction from  the	turnover  cannot  bedenied, unless the hydrogenated groundnut oil has ceased  tobe  " groundnut oil ". To be groundnut oil,  two  conditionshave  to  be satisfied.	 The oil in question  must  be	fromgroundnut  and secondly the commodity must be " oil ".	Thatthe  hydrogenated  oil	sold by the appellants	was  out  ofgroundnut not being in dispute, the only point is whether itcontinues  to  be oil even after hydrogenation.	  Oil  is  achemical compound of glycerine with fatty acids or rather  aglyceride  of  a mixture of fatty  acids-principally  oleic,linoleic,  stearic  and	 palmitic,  the	 proportion  of	 theparticular fat varying in the case of the oil from differentoil-seeds  and	it remains a glyceride of fatty	 acids	evenafter the hardening process, though the relative  proportionof  the	 different types of fatty acids undergoes  a  slightchange.	  In  its essential nature therefore no	 change	 hasoccurred  and it remains an oil-a glyceride of fatty  acids-that it was when it issued out of the press.In our opinion, the learned Judges of the High Court laid anundue  emphasis on the addition by way of the absorption  ofthe  hydrogen atoms in the process of hardening and  on	 theconsequent inter-molecular changes in the oil.	The additionof  the hydrogen atoms was effected in order to	 saturate  aportion	 of the oleic and linoleic constituents of  the	 oiland  render the oil more stable thus improving	its  qualityand  utility.  But neither mere absorption of other  matter,nor inter-molecular changes necessarily affect the  identityof a substance as ordinarily understood.  Thus for  instancethere are absorptions of matter and inter-molecular  changeswhich  deteriorate the quality or utility of the oil and  itmight	be  interesting	 to  see  if  such   additions	 andalterations could be taken to24render it any the less " oil ". Groundnut oil when it issuesout of the expresser normally contains a large proportion ofunsaturated fatty acids-oleic and linoleic-which with  otherfatty  acids  which are saturated are  in  combination	withglycerine   to	form  the  glyceride  which  is	 oil.	 Theunsaturated  fatty  acids  are unstable,  i.  e.,  they	 aresubject	 to oxidative changes.	When raw oil is	 exposed  toair particularly if humid and warm, i.e., in a climate	suchas  obtains  in	 Madras,  oxygen  from	the  atmosphere	  isgradually  absorbed  by	 the unsaturated  acid	to  form  anunstable  peroxide (in other words the change  involves	 theaddition  of  two  atoms  of  oxygen)  which  in  its	turndecomposes breaking up into aldehydes.	It is this oxidativechange	and particularly the conversion into aldehydes	thatis  believed  to  be responsible for  the  sharp  unpleasantodour,	and  the  characteristic taste of  rancid  oil.	  Ifnothing	 were done to retard the process the  rancidity	 mayincrease  to  such extent as to render it  unfit  for  humanconsumption.   The change here is both additive	 and  inter-molecular,  but	 yet  it could hardly be  said	that  rancidgroundnut oil is not groundnut oil.  It would undoubtedly bevery  bad groundnut oil but still it would be groundnut	 oiland  if so it does not seem to accord with logic  that	whenthe quality of the oil is improved in that its resistance tothe natural processes of deterioration through oxidation  isincreased, it should be held not to be oil.Both the Tribunal as well as the High Court have pointed outthat  except for its keeping quality without  rancidity	 andease of packing and transport without leakage,	hydrogenatedoil  serves  the same purpose as a cooking  medium  and	 hasidentical food value as refined groundnut oil.	There is  nouse  to	 which the groundnut oil can be put  for  which	 thehydrogenated oil could not be used, nor is there any use  towhich  the hydrogenated oil could be put for which  the	 rawoil   could  not  be  used.   Similarly	 we  consider	thathydrogenated  oil  still continues to be " groundnut  oil  "notwithstanding	 the  processing  which is  merely  for	 thepurpose of rendering the oil more stable thus improving	 itskeeping qualities for25those  who desire to consume groundnut oil.  In our  opinionthe  assessee-company was entitled to the,, benefit  of	 thededuction of the purchase price of the kernel-or  groundnut,under  r.  18(2),  which went into the	manufacture  of	 thehydrogenated  groundnut oil from the sale turnover  of	suchoil.One  other point which is involved in the appeal relates  tothe claim of the appellant to a deduction in respect of	 thefreight-charges	 included  in the price	 of  the  commodity.Under  r. 5(1)(g) of the Turnover and Assessment  Rules,  indetermining  the net turnover of a dealer he is entitled  tohave deducted from his gross turnover " all amounts  fallingunder  the following two heads, when specified	and  chargedfor by the dealer separately, without excluding them in	 theprice of the goods sold :(i) freight;(ii)....................The appellant claimed exemption on a sum of Rs. 3,88,377-13-3  on the ground that it represented the freight in  respectof  the goods sold by the appellant asserting that they	 hadbeen charged for separately.  The assessing-officer rejectedthe claim and this rejection was upheld by the	departmentalauthorities and by the High Court in Revision.	It would  beseen  that in order to claim the benefit of  this  exemptionthe  freight should (1) have been specified and charged	 forby the dealer separately, and (ii) the same should not	havebeen  included in the price of the goods sold.	The  learnedJudges	of  the	 High  Court  held  that  neither  of  theseconditions  was	 satisfied  by the  bills  produced  by	 theappellant.   We consider, the decision of the High Court  onthis  point  was correct.  In the specimen  bill  which	 thelearned	 Counsel  for the appellants has placed	 before	 us,after  setting out the quantity sold by weight (23,760	lb.)the  price is specified as 15 annas 9 pies per lb.  and	 thetotal amount of the price is determined at Rs. 23  388-12-0.From this the railway freight of Rs. 1,439-12-0 is  deductedand  the balance is shown as the sum on which sales-tax	 hasbeen computed.26From the contents of this invoice it would be seen that	 theappellant  has	charged	 a price inclusive  of	the  railwayfreight	 and  would  therefore be outside the  terms  of  r.5(1)(g)	 which requires that in order to enable a dealer  toclaim the deduction it should be charged for separately	 andnot included in the price of goods sold.  The conditions  ofthe  rule not having been complied with, the  appellant	 wasnot entitled to the deduction in respect of freight.The  result therefore is that the appeal is allowed in	partand  the order of the High Court in so far as it  denied  tothe  appellant the benefit of the deduction in the  turnoverprovided by r. 18(2) of the Turnover and Assessment Rules isset aside.In  view  of the appellant having succeeded  only  in  part,there will be no order as to costs in this appeal.Appeal allowed in part.