PETITIONER:THE SPECIAL LAND ACQUISITION OFFICER, BANGALORE	Vs.RESPONDENT:T. ADINARAYAN SETTYDATE OF JUDGMENT:07/11/1958BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.IMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1959 AIR  429		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 404 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1968 SC1425	 (20) APL	    1970 SC 850	 (2) F	    1972 SC1417	 (4) RF	    1975 SC1670	 (7) R	    1977 SC 580	 (9) RF	    1979 SC 472	 (10) F	    1984 SC 892	 (13) RF	    1992 SC 666	 (3,4)ACT:Land Acquisition-Principles of valuation-Exemplars, use	 of-Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (1 Of 1894), ss. 11 and 23.HEADNOTE:Certain	 land belonging to the respondent  was	compulsorilyacquired  by the Government for a maternity hospital.	Mostof  the	 land consisted of building sites but  there  was  abuilding  on a small portion of the land and a	portion	 waslow  lying-land.  The Special Land Acquisition Officer	heldon  the basis of the value of sites previously sold  by	 therespondent,  that the market value of the land was Rs.	10/-per  sq.  yard and awarded a sum of Rs.	 1,41,169/-  to	 therespondent   as	  compensation.	  He  did   not	  give	 anycompensation  for  the low lying land or for  the  building.Against this award the respondent raised an objection and  areference  was	made to the District  judge.   The  Districtjudge  accepted the rate of Rs. 10/- per sq. yard  as  fair,reduced	 the  amount of deductions  for	 providing  electricinstallations  by  Rs.	10,000/- and allowed a	sum  of	 Rs.10,000/-  for the low lying area at the rate of Rs. 3/-	 persq.  yard, thereby increasing the amount of compensation  byRs.  20,000/-.	Not being satisfied the respondent  appealedto  the	 High Court.  The High Court held that the  rate  ofcompensation  for  the land except the	low  lying  portion,should	be  Rs.	 13/8/- per sq yard and for  the  low  lyingportion	 it  should  be Rs. 8/8/- per  sqyard.	 It  furtherawarded a sum of Rs. 7,000/- for the building.	In  arrivingat the figure of Rs. 13/8/- the High Court took into accountonly  four  sale  transactions which had been  made  by	 therespondent at the rates of Rs. 12, I5, 14 and 7/8/- per	 sq.yard   but  did	 not  take  into  consideration	 two   othertransactions  which had been made by the respondent  at	 therates  of Rs. 6/8/- and Rs. 10 per sq. yard.  It  calculatedthe average of the four transactions to be Rs. 12/2/per	 sq.yard and then took a second average between Rs. 15/-,405which  was the maximum price obtained by the respondent	 andRS.  12/2/-  and arrived at the figure of Rs.  13/8/-.	 TheHigh Court was also influenced by considerations such as thepurpose	 for  which the land was acquired.,  the  report  ofcertain	 medical authorities as to the unsuitability of	 theland for the maternity hospital and the delay in putting theland to the use for which it was acquired.Held,  that with regard to the valuation of the land,  otherthan  the  low	lying portion, the  High  Court	 misdirecteditself by taking into account extraneous considerations	 andhad  committed	an  error of principle in  arriving  at	 thefigure	of  Rs.	 13/8/-	 by  adopting  a  wrong	 method	  ofascertaining the market value.	The High Court ought to havetaken  the  average  of all the six  sale  transactions	 andarrived	 at the proper valuation of Rs. 11/. per  sq.  yard.There  was  no justification for ignoring two  of  the	saletransactions  or for taking a second average.  With  respectto the compensation for the low lying land and the  buildingthere was no error of principle or otherwise in the findingsof the High Court and no interference was called for.JUDGMENT:   CIVIL  APPELLATE  JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal	 No  138  of1955.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated October 15,  1953,of the Mysore High Court at Bangalore in Regular Appeal	 No.255 of 1950-51, arising out of the order dated September 18,1950,  of  the Court of the District  Judge,  Bangalore,  inMisc.  Case No. 39 of 1947-48.G.   Channappa, Assistant Advocate-General, Mysore  R. GopalaKrishnan and T. M. Sen, for the appellant'A.   V. Viswanatha Sastri, M. A. Rangaswami, K. R. Sarma andK. R. Choudhury, for the respondent.1958.	November 7. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyS.   K. DAS, J.-This appeal by the Special Land	 AcquisitionOfficer,  Bangalore,  has been brought to this	Court  on  acertificate granted by the High Court of Mysore, and is fromthe  decision of the said High Court dated October 5,  1953,in a regular appeal from an order made by the 2nd AdditionalDistrict  Judge,  Bangalore,  on September 18,	1950,  on  areference  under s. 18 of the Land Acquisition Act  (herein.after referred to as the Act).The  facts so far as they are relevant to the appeal  beforeus are these.  An area of about 51,243 squard406yards of land was acquired by Government under	NotificationNo.  M.	 11054	Med.  80-45-25 dated  April  16,  1946,	 fordevelopment   of   the	Appiah	Naidu  Maternity   Home	  atMalleswaram,  Bangalore	 City, into  a	Maternity  Hospital.There were eight owners interested in the property acquired,out  of whom two objected to the award made by	the  SpecialLand  Acquisition Officer, now appellant before us.  One  ofthese  two was T. Adinarayana Shetty, a diamond merchant  ofMysore	City.  Originally, he was the respondent before	 us,and  on his death his son and legal representative has	beenbrought	 into  the  record as the sole	respondent  to	thisappeal.	   The	 deceased   respondent	 Adinarayana   Setty(hereinafter called the respondent) was interested in 48,404sq.  yards out of the total area, and it may be stated	herethat  there  is no dispute before us that out  of  the	said48,404	sq. yards an area of about 3,000 sq. yards  consistsof  land  which	 has  been  variously  characterised  as   adepression or a pit or low-lying land (called 'halla' in thelocal  vernacular  language).  Out of the  total  amount  ofcompensation   awarded	by  the	 Special  Land	 AcquisitionOfficer,   a  sum  of  Rs.  1,41,169/was  awarded   to	 therespondent.  The Special Land Acquisition Officer  proceededon  the	 following basis for his award.	 Firstly,  he  foundthat  the  land	 value	in and	around	Bangalore  City	 hadincreased  in  recent  years  owing  to	 the  war  and	 therespondent  had paid to the Deputy  Commissioner,  BangaloreDistrict,  a  sum  of money called  a  conversion  fine	 forsanctioning  a	scheme	of converting  the  land  into	non-agricultural land.  Thereafter, a layout for building  siteswas  prepared and approved by the Municipality and the	res-pondent sold a few of the sites shown in the layout to	somepurchasers.   This  was done before the publication  of	 thepreliminary  notification  of acquisition; but the  sale  offurther	  building   sites  was	 stopped  after	  the	saidpublication.  Secondly, the Special Land Acquisition Officertook  into consideration the value of the sites sold by	 therespondent and came to the conclusion that Rs. 10/- per	 sq.yard  was  the	market value of the land  in  question.	  Heawarded	 to  the respondent compensation  for  approximately48,404- sq. yards at the407rate of Rs. 10/- per sq. yard, but after deducting therefroman area of 26,248 sq. yards which, according to the  SpecialLand Acquisition Officer, was required for making roads	 anddrains	as  per the layout scheme.  The	 total	amount	thuscalculated came to Rs. 2,21,563. and odd and from this a sumof  Rs.	 98,807	 was  again  deducted  as  representing	 theexpenditure  which  would be required for making  roads	 anddrains.	  The net amount was thus found to be  Rs.  1,22,756and odd and adding 15% as the statutory compensation payableto  the respondent the total amount awarded by, the  SpecialLand  Acquisition  Officer to the respondent,  came  to	 Rs.1,41,169/-.   Against this award, the respondent  raised  anobjection,  and	 a  reference was accordingly  made  to	 theDistrict  Judge of Bangalore under s. 18 of the	 Act.	Thisreference  was	heard by the 2nd Additional  District  Judgewho,  by  his order dated September 18, 1950,  came  to	 thefollowing conclusions:-(i) that the rate awarded by the Land Acquisition Officer atRs. 10/- per sq. yard was fair and should be,upheld;-(ii) that  a  sum  of Rs. 10,000/-  for	 providing  electricinstallation out of the sum of Rs. 98,807/- deducted by	 theLand  Acquisition Officer from the compensation	 payable  tothe respondent should not be deducted; and(iii)	  that	with  regard to the area of  the  low-lying.land which I was completely excluded by the Land AcquisitionOfficer,  the respondent should get at the rate of  Rs.	 3/-per sq. yard or approximately a sum of I Rs. 10,000/-.In  other  words,  the	learned	 Additional  District  Judgeincreased the compensation in favour of the respondent by  asum  of	 about	Rs.  20,000/-.	 Not  being  satisfied,	 therespondent preferred an appeal to the High Court of, Mysore.The  learned Judges of the High Court found that the  propercompensation for the land,. except the portion characterisedas low-lying, should be Rs. 13/8/per sq. yard and as to	 thelow-lying  portion it should be reduced by Rs. 51-  per	 sq.yard  inasmuch	as  a sum of  Rs.  15,000/-  was  necessary,according to the408evidence  given	 in the case, for filling it  up;  in  otherwords,	the High Court awarded compensation at the  rate  ofRs.  8/8/-  per sq. yard for the low-lying land.   The	HighCourt  also  reduced the area which had to be  deducted	 formaking	roads,	etc., according to the	layout	scheme	from26,248	sq. yards to 12,101 sq. yards.	It also reduced	 thelayout charges to Rs. 64,432/-.	 The High Court added to thecompensation a sum of Rs. 7,000/- as the value of a buildingwhich the respondent had constructed on one of the sites  onthe  finding  that the construction was made  prior  to	 thepreliminary  notification.  In this respect the	 High  Courtdeparted  from the finding of the Land	Acquisition  Officerthat  the  building was put up after the publicaion  of	 thepreliminary notification.  The total amount of	compensationwhich the High Court awarded came to about Rs. 4,80,000	 andodd.As the judgment of the High Court was a judgment of reversaland  the appellant felt dissatisfied with it, a	 certificateof  fitness was asked for and was granted by the High  Courton  July  6, 1954.  The present appeal has been	 brought  tothis Court in pursuance of that certificate.The appellant has confined his appeal to the following threepoints: (1) payment of compensation of a sum of Rs.  7,000/-for  the building said to have been constructed	 before	 thepublication of the preliminary notification; (2) payment  ofcompensation at Rs.,8/8/per sq. yard for the low-lying	land(halla);  and (3) payment of compensation at Rs. 13/8/-	 forthe remaining land after deducting the area for making roadsand buildings.	We may state that there is no dispute beforeus  now as to the area which should be so deducted and	alsoas  to the amount of layout charges, as the findings of	 theHigh  Court  on these two points nave  not  been  challengedbefore us.On behalf of the respondent our attention has been' drawn tothe  decisions	of the Privy Council in Charan Das  v.	AmirKhan  (1), Narsingh Das v. Secretary of State for India	 (2)and Nowroji Bustomji Wadia v.(1) (1920) 47 I.A. 255.(2) (1924) 52 I.A. 133.409Bombay	Government (1).	 On these decisions it is  submittedby learned counsel that though s. 26 of the Act was  amendedin  1921  by insertion of sub-s. (2) which says	 that  everyaward  shall  be deemed to be a decree' and thus  an  appealtherefrom  must	 be considered and determined  in  the	samemanner	as if it is a judgment from a decree in an  ordinarysuit the established practice of the Privy Council has	beennot  to	 interfere  with  a  finding  on  the  question	  ofvaluation,  unless  there  is  some  fundamental   principleaffecting  the	valuation  which renders  it  unsound.	 Thepractice,  it  is stated, was based on	two  considerations:first,	that  the courts in India were	more  familiar	withlocal  conditions and circumstances on which  the  valuationdepended and, secondly, the Privy Council found it necessaryto  limit  the extent of the enquiry in order to  spare	 theparties	 costly and fruitless litigation.  On behalf of	 theappellant  it  is  submitted that this Court  has  no  doubtadopted	 the practice that it will not ordinarily  interferewith concurrent findings of fact, but this Court has no suchestablished practice as was adopted by the Privy Council  invaluation  cases  even	where a difference  of	opinion	 hasoccurred  between two courts upon the number of	 rupees	 peryard  to  be  allowed for a plot of land.   He	has  furthersubmitted  that the reasons for the practice adopted by	 thePrivy Council do not apply with equal force to this Court.In  view of the facts of this case and the opinion which  wehave formed after hearing learned counsel for both  parties,we do not think it necessary to make any final pronouncementas  to	the  practice which this Court	should	adopt  in  avaluation  case	 where	two courts have	 differed.   We	 arecontent	 to  proceed  in this case on the  footing  that  weshould not interfere unless there is something to show,	 notmerely	that  on the balance of evidence it is	possible  toreach  a different conclusion, but that the judgment  cannotbe  supported by reason of a wrong application of  principleor because some important point affecting valuation has beenoverlooked or misapplied.(1)  (1925) 52 I.A. 367.52410We  are	 satisfied that there is no error  of  principle  orotherwise in the findings of the High Court as to the  firsttwo  points  urged  in support of the  appeal.	 As  to	 theconstruction of the building for which a compensation of Rs.7,000 has been awarded, the clear finding of the High  Courtis  that  it  was  constructed	prior  to  the	 preliminarynotification.  It has been further stated before us that thebuilding is in actual occupation of the medical	 department.Learned	 counsel for the appellant has taken us through	 theevidence  on the question of construction of the  house	 andthe  application for a licence for building the said'  housewhich  was made by the respondent to the  Bangalore  Munici-pality.	  We are unable to hold that that evidence  has	 theeffect of displacing the clear finding of the High Court.As  to the low-lying land, we consider that the	 High  Courthas  given very good reasons for its  finding.	 Admittedly,the  area of the low-lying land (halla) is about  3,000	 sq.yards.	The Land Acquisition Officer valued it at Rs. 3	 persq.  yard.  A sum of Rs. 15,000 has been deducted  from	 thecompensation  payable to the respondent on the	ground	thatthat  amount will be required for filling up  the  low-lying-land and converting it into building sites.  Therefore, theposition  is that the respondent has not only been  made  topart with 3,000 sq. yards of land at 3 per sq. yard, but  hehas  also  been made to pay Rs. 15,000 for  filling  up	 theland.  If these two figures are added, even then the  marketvalue  of the land comes to about Rs. 8 per sq. yard.	Thisis  so	even if we do not follow the method adopted  by	 theHigh  Court that the sum of Rs. 15,000 for 3,000  sq.  yardsgives  an  average  of Rs. 5 per sq. yard  and	that  amountshould be deducted from the rate of Rs. 13-8-0 per sq.	yardfixed as the proper compensation for the remaining land.  Weare of the opinion that on the materials before us the valueper sq. yard fixed by the High Court for the low-lying	landis fully justified even on adoption of the method  suggestedby  learned counsel for the appellant.	Learned counsel	 forthe respondent has referred us to the circumstance that someof the sales411of building sites which the respondent had made	 appertainedto  the	 low-lying land and he has  further  emphasised	 thecircumstance that just opposite the low-lying land which  isat the eastern end of the entire area, some houses had	beenbuilt.	   We	have   taken   these   circumstances	intoconsideration,	but do not think that the  conclusion  whichlearned counsel for the respondent wishes us to draw followstherefrom.   First of all, it is by no means clear that	 thesales of the building sites at the low rate of Rs. 6-8-0  orthereabout  appertained	 to the low-lying  land	 only,	and,secondly,  the	mere circumstance that some  buildings	havebeen  made on land opposite the low-lying lands but  on	 theother  side of the road, does not necessarily mean that	 thelow-lying  lands  are as valuable as the other land  in	 thearea.	We are therefore of the view that  the	compensationfixed  by  the	High Court for the  low-lying  land  is	 notvitiated  by  any error of the kind which will	justify	 ourinterference with it.We now proceed to consider the third and main point urged onbehalf	of the appellant, namely, the rate of 13/8  per	 sq.yard  for the other land in the area.  Learned	counsel	 forthe  appellant has submitted before us that the	 High  Courthas  committed	two fundamental errors in arriving  at	thisfinding.  Furthermore, the High Court has been influenced byextraneous considerations such as the purpose for which	 theland was acquired, the report of certain medical authoritiesas  to	the unsuitability of the land for  the	purpose	 forwhich it was acquired, and the delay in putting the land  tothe  use for which it was acquired.  We agree  with  learnedcounsel	 for  the  appellant  that  these  were	  extraneousconsiderations	which  had  no bearing on  the	question  ofvaluation   and	 the  learned  Judges  of  the	High   Courtmisdirected themselves as to the scope of the enquiry beforethem  when  they  imported  these  considerations  into	 thequestion of valuation.	We further think that the High Courtcommitted  an error of principle in arriving at	 the  figureRs.  13/8  and the error was committed by adopting  a  wrongmethod in ascertaining the market value of the land at the412relevant time.	It is not disputed that the function of	 thecourt in awarding compensation under the Act is to ascertainthe market value of the land at the date of the notificationunder  s.  4(1)	 and the methods of  valuation	may  be	 (1)opinion	 of experts, (2) the price paid within a  reasonabletime  in  bonafide  transactions of purchase  of  the  landsacquired  or  the lands adjacent to the lands  acquired	 andpossessing  similar  advantages and (3) a number  of  years'purchase of the actual or immediately prospective profits ofthe lands acquired. In the case under our consideration	 theHigh  Court  adopted  the second method,  but  in  doing  socommitted  two serious errors.	There were altogether  seventransactions of alienation made by the respondent.  One	 wasa  gift which must necessarily be excluded. The earliest  ofthe sales was in favour of Muniratham which was made on	 May15,  1945.  Another was made on July 18, 1945.	This was  infavour of Venugopal who was the husband of a  grand-daughterof  the	 respondent.  Four other transactions in  favour  ofKapinapathy,  Puttananjappa,  Shamanna and  Rajagopal  Naiduwere  made in August, 1945.  The notification under s. 4  ofthe Land Acquisition Act was made on October 4, 1945.	Whatthe  learned Judges of the High Court did was to  take	onlyfour   out   of	  the  aforesaid   six	 transactions	intoconsideration  and then to draw an average price  therefrom.The learned Judges gave no sufficient reason why two of	 thetransactions  were left out.  In one part of their  judgmentthey said :"  The	evidence discloses that the appellant  has  effectedfour  sales  about a couple of months prior to the  date  ofpreliminary  notification and the rates secured by  him	 areRs. 12, 15, 14 and 7/8 which on calculation give an  averageof  Rs. 12/2 per sq. yard ". Why the transaction of May	 15,1945,  which was at a rate of Rs. 6/8 per sq. yard only	 wasleft  out  it is difficult to  understand.   Similarly,	 thetransaction of July 18, 1945, was at the rate of Rs. 10	 persq. yard.  That also was left out.  We are of the view	thatthis  arbitrary selection of four transactions only  out  ofsix has vitiated the finding of the High Court.	 If all thesix  transactions of sale are taken into consideration,	 theaverage	 rate  comes to about Rs. 10/13 per sq.	 yard  only.Having	arbitrarily discarded two of the  transactions,	 thelearned Judges of the High Court committed another error  intaking	a second average.  Having arrived at an	 average  ofRs. 12/2 per sq. yard from the four transactions referred toabove,	they  again took a second average  between  Rs.	 15,which was the maximum price obtained by the respondent,	 andRs.  12/2.  Having struck this second average,	the  learnedJudges of the High Court arrived at the figure of Rs.  13/8.No sound reasons have been given why this second average wasstruck	except	the  extraneous reasons	 to  which  we	havealready	 made a reference.  It is obvious that	the  maximumprice Rs. 15 per sq. yard had already gone into the  averagewhen an average was drawn from the four transactions.  It isdifficult to understand why it should be utilised again	 forarriving  at the market value of the land in  question.	  Weare  of	 the  view  that if the	 aforesaid  two	 errors	 areeliminated,  then  the proper market value of  the  land  inquestion is Rs. 11 only.  Learned counsel for the  appellanthas drawn our attention to the claim made by the  respondenthimself	 before the Land Acquisition Officer (Ex. 11).	 Therespondent had therein said:Hence, under the standing orders compensation has to be paidat rates for building land in the neighbourhood.  This	rateranges	from  Rs. 10 to Rs. 12, an average of Rs. 10  a	 sq.yard,  as could be verified from entries in the	 local	Sub-Registrar's Office and Bangalore City Municipal Office.	  Atany rate, I myself have sold in the course of this year somesix sites out of the land proposed to be acquired for  ratesranging from Rs. 7 to Rs. 15 or on an average of Rs. 10	 persq. yard.  At this rate the compensation amount will be	 Rs.5,12,430 and adding the statutory allowance of Rs. 76,860 at15  per cent. on the compensation amount on account  of	 thecompulsory nature of the acquisition, the total cost of	 theland will be Rs. 5,89,290 or nearly six lakhs of rupees."414The  learned  Judges of the High Court	took  the  aforesaidclaim  to  mean that the average rate was Rs.  10  ,per	 sq.yard, only if the entire area was taken into  consideration;but the rate would be different if small building sites weresold-  according to a layout scheme.  It is worthy of  note,however,  that	in his claim the respondent  clearly  statedthat  even  as	building  land	the  average  rate  in	 theneighbourhood ranged from Rs. 10 to Rs. 12 per sq. yard	 andhe had himself sold six building sites at an average rate ofabout  Rs. 10 per sq. yard.  It is worthy of note  that	 thesix transactions to which the respondent referred were salesof small building sites.  It appears to us, therefore,	thatthe  High  Court had in effect given the respondent  a	ratemore favourable than what he had himself claimed.We  consider, therefore, that on a proper  consideration  ofthe  materials in the record and after eliminating  the	 twoerrors which the High Court had committed, the proper  valueof the land in question should be Rs. 11 per sq. yard.The result, therefore, is that we allow this appeal to	thislimited	 extent	 only, namely, the order of the	 High  Courtwill  be modified by substituting the figure Rs. 11 per	 sq.yard  for the figure Rs. 13/8 awarded by the High  Court  ascompensation to the respondent for land other than the	low-lying  land.  We maintain the order of the High	 Court	thatthe  parties  will receive and pay costs  in  proportion  totheir success and failure, as now determined, in the  courtsbelow; but so far as the costs of this Court are  concerned,the  parties  must  bear their own costs in  view  of  theirdivided success here.		    Appeal partly allowed.415