PETITIONER:UNION OF INDIA	Vs.RESPONDENT:CHAMAN LAL LOONADATE OF JUDGMENT:30/04/1957BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)IMAM, SYED JAFFERMENON, P. GOVINDASARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  652		  1957 SCR 1039ACT:Partition  of India-Distribution of rights and	liabilities-Contract by Governor-General in Council, if and when for thePurposes of Pakistan -Test-Such Purpose, if can be  modifiedby  Powers  of	control vested	in  Joint  Defence  Council-Adjudication of rights and liabilities under such  contract-Indian	Independence  (Rights,	Property  and	Liabilities)Order, 1947, Arts. 8(1), 3(2)--joint Defence Council  Order,1947, Art. 8(c).HEADNOTE:The correct test to determine whether a contract made beforethe partition of India on behalf of the Governor-General  inCouncil comes within the purview of cl. (a) of Art. 8(1)  ofthe  Indian Independence (Rights, Property and	Liabilities)Order,10401947, so as to be deemed to have been made on behalf of	 theDominion of Pakistan, is-either (1) if the contract was madeon  August 15, 1947, it would have been a contract  for	 thepurposes  of the Dominion of Pakistan ; or (2)	if  Pakistanhad existed on the day the contract was made, it would be  acontract for the purposes of Pakistan.Union of India v. Chinu Bhai jeshing bhai, I.L.R. 1953	Bom.117, approved.The  purpose  of a contract is not to be confused  with	 theultimate  disposal  of the goods supplied  thereunder  sincesuch disposal can in no way determine or modify it.  Nor  dothe  powers  of control over military stores vested  in	 thejoint  Defence	Council by Art. 8(c) of	 the  joint  DefenceCouncil	 Order, 1947, and saved by Art. 3(2) of	 the  IndianIndependence (Rights, Property and Liabilities) Order, 1947,whereby	 the goods might be transferred anywhere  in  India,make any difference and the rights and liabilities  accruingfrom  such  contracts fall entirely to be  adjudged  by	 theprovisions  of the Indian Independence Order and not by	 thejoint Defence Council Order.The  concluding part of Art. 8(1) makes it quite clear	thatthe Article makes no distinction between contracts where theconsideration is either executed or executory in nature	 andapplies equally to both.Elahi Bux v. Union of India, A.I.R. 952 Cal. 471 and KrishnaRanjait v. Union of India, A.I.R. 1954 Cal. 623, approved.Union  of  India  v.  Loke  Nath,  A.I.R.  1952	 Cal.	140,disapproved.Consequently, in a case where the Union of India was  soughtto be made liable an the basis of a contract entered into onbehalf	of the Governor-General of India in Council for	 thesupply	of  fodder to the Manager,  Military  Farms,  LahoreCantonment,  which was in Pakistan on August 15,  1947,	 andthe  trial Court found for the Union of India but  the	HighCourt, taking the view that the fodder constituted  militarystores	under  the exclusive control of	 the  joint  DefenceCouncil	 on  August  15,  1947,	 liable	 to  be	 transferredanywhere  in  'India, reversed that finding,  the  contract,even assumig that view to be correct, must be held to be oneexclusively for the purposes of Pakistan as from the at dateand the Union of India could not be made liable thereunder.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 24 of 1954.Appeal	under Article 132 read with Article 147 and  Article133(1)(c) of the Constitution of India from the judgment andorder dated July 17, 1952, of the Punjab High Court in FirstAppeal	from  Order No. 9 of 1949 against the  judgment	 anddecree of the Sub-Judge 1st104Class,	Ferozepur dated February 9, 1949, in Civil  Sui	 No.134 of 1949.Porus  A. Mehta, R. Gopalakrishnan and R.H. Dhebar, for	 theappellant.Hardayal Hardy, for the respondents.1957.	April 30.  The Judgment of the Court was,  deliveredbyS.   K.	 DAS  J.-This  is an appeal on	the  strength  of  acertificate  granted by the High Court of Punjab  at  Simla.The  appellant	is  the Union-of India	and  the  respondentMessrs.	  Chaman Lal Loona and Company military	 contractorsat  Muktsar in the district of Ferozepur, now in the  IndianState of Punjab.The  relevant facts are these.	In the Court of the'  seniorSubordinate  Judge  at	Ferozepur,  in	August,	 1948,	 therespondent Company made an application, purporting to be  anapplication under s. 8(2) and s. 20 of the Arbitration	Act,10 of 1940, wherein the respondent alleged that in 1945	 therespondent  had entered into a contract for the supply of  "bhoosa	"  (fodder) to the military department of  the	thenundivided India through the Manager, Military Farms,  LahoreCantonment.  The contract, it was alleged, was signed by theAssistant  Director, Military Farms, on behalf of  the	thenGovernment of India.  The agreement between the parties	 wasthat  the  said	 Manager would also supply,  on	 payment  ofprice,	wire coils in connection with the supply  of  bhoosapresumably  for the purpose of tying the bundles of  fodder,and  on	 the  supply being made and on return  of  the	wirecoils,	the  military department would give credit  for	 theprice  of  the	coils already paid by  the  respondent.	  InNovember, 1945, the respondent supplied fodder and  returned152  bundles  of wire coils.  The Manager,  Military  Farms,Lahore,	 informed the respondent, however, that out  of	 152bundles	 of wire coils, said to have been sent,	 24  bundleshad  not been received, though no note of such	non-deliverywas  made  at the time the consignment	was  received.	 Therespondent had also deposited Rs. 11,026 by way of  securitywith   the  military  department  in  connection  with	 thecontract.  The agreement contained an1341042arbitration  clause  to the effect that if a  dispute  arosebetween the parties, it should be decided by the  arbitratornamed therein, viz., the District Commander concerned.	 Therespondent  said that he had a claim against  the  appellantfor Rs. 720, the price of 24 bundles of wire coils at Rs. 30per  bundle,  and for refund of Rs. 11,026,  and  prayed  interms of s. 20 of the Arbitration Act that the appellant  bedirected to 'ale the agreement and other relevant documents,and  that the Court do refer the dispute to  the  arbitratornamed for the purpose of filing an award.As  required by sub-s. (2) of s. 20 of the Arbitration	Act,the  application was registered as a suit, and a notice	 wasissued to the appellant to show cause.	The appellant showedcause  by a written statement filed on November 4, 1948,  inwhich  the  two	 substantial pleas taken  were-(1)  that  byreason of the provisions of the Indian Independence (Rights,Property and Liabilities) Order, 1947, hereinafter  referredto  as the Independence Order, 1947, the Dominion of  India,and later the Union of India, had no liability in respect ofthe contract in question, the purposes of which contract  asfrom  August  15, 1947, were purposes  exclusively  for	 theDominion of Pakistan; and (2) the Court at Ferozepore had nojurisdiction to try the suit, as the cause of action did notarise within its territorial jurisdiction.The  two issues which were tried by the learned	 SubordinateJudge	were   the  aforesaid  issues	of   liability	 andjurisdiction.	On jurisdiction, he found in favour  of	 therespondent,  on	 the  ground  that  the	 respondent  was   adisplaced  person' living in Muktsar which is in  Ferozeporeand  therefore the Court at Ferozepore had  jurisdiction  totry the suit.  The High Court affirmed this finding, and  asnothing now turns upon this issue, we are not called upon tomake  any  pronouncement  thereon.   The  issue	 as  to	 theliability  of the appellant on the basis of the contract  inquestion  is, however, very much a live issue.	The  learnedSubordinate  Judge found in favour of the appellant on	thisissue,	and  dismissed	the  application.   The	 High  Courtreversed that finding, and allowed the appeal.	In reversingthe finding of the learned Subordinate Judge, the High1043Court relied on the provisions of the Joint Defence  CouncilOrder,	1947, to be referred to hereinafter as	the  DefenceOrder,	1947.	The precise ground on which the	 High  Courtproceeded may best be put in the words of Khosla J. who gavethe leading judgment.  Khosla J. said:"  In the present case the Lahore Military farm is  situatedat  Lahore  and whether the fodder was supplied in  1945  orafter  the 15th of August 1947, the purpose will be  deemed.to  be a purpose of the Dominion of Pakistan on	 account  ofthe  territorial  situation of Lahore.	But in	the  presentcase,  the fodder was to be supplied to a Military Farm	 andthe   fodder,	therefore,  constituted	  Military   stores.Military  Stores  were kept joint and  under  the  exclusivecontrol	 of the Joint Defence Council who had the  power  ofallocating  these  stores among the two	 Dominions  and	 fortransferring  them  from one place to  another.	  Therefore,fodder lying in the Military Farm, Lahore, was not, on	15thAugust	1947,  the  exclusive property of  the	Dominion  ofPakistan  but was under the exclusive control of  the  JointDefence Council.  This fodder could be transferred to a farmin India and thus could become the property of the  Dominionof India.  In the circumstances, it cannot be said that	 thecontract for supply of fodder to the Military Farm,  Lahore,was a contract exclusively for the purposes of the  Dominionof  Pakistan  if  the contract were viewed on  the  15th  ofAugust	1947, and, that being so, it must be held  that	 thecontract was not a contract exclusively for the purposes  ofthe Dominion of Pakistan.  The decision of the learned trialJudge on this point must, therefore, be set aside."The  principal question in this appeal is whether  the	HighCourt  is right in its view as to the true scope and  effectof the relevant provisions of the Independence Order,  1947,and  the  Defence  Order, 1947.	  Learned  counsel  for	 theappellant  has challenged the correctness of that view,	 andhas  submitted-(1) that on a true construction of Art. 8  ofthe   Independence   Order,   1947,   the   contract   underconsideration  in  this case was as from the  appointed	 day(i.e.,	August	15, 1947), a contract  exclusively  for	 thepurposes of the Dominion of1044Pakistan and shall be deemed to have been made on behalf  ofthat  Dominion,	 and all rights and liabilities	 which	haveaccrued	 or  may  accrue under such contract  shall  be	 therights and liabilities of the Dominion of Pakistan; (2) thatthe  Defence  Order,  1947, which set  up  a  Joint  DefenceCouncil	 and provides for the exercise of certain powers  ofcontrol	 by the said Council under Art. 8 of that Order	 didnot in any way affect the rights and liabilities arising outof the contract, which rights and liabilities were  governedby the relevant provisions of the Independence Order,  1947;and (3) that, in any view, the claim in the present case didnot  relate  to military stores as the	High  Court  wronglyassumed, and the Defence Order, 1947, had no application  atall to the facts of this case.On behalf of the respondent, the correctness of each of	 theabove submissions has been seriously contested, and  learnedcounsel	 for the respondent has strongly contended that	 theview  of the High Court as to the relevant articles  of	 theIndependence  Order, 1947, and the Defence Order,  1947,  iscorrect.  Learned counsel also raised a preliminary point ofobjection to the effect that on an application under s.	 20,Arbitration  Act, the only point for decision was  if  therewas  an arbitration agreement and the question of  liabilitywas one for the arbitrator and not for the Court to  decide.Ordinarily, that would be so.  When, however, we pointed outto  learned  counsel  that the Union of India  as  such	 wasadmittedly  not	 a party to the	 arbitration  agreement	 andcould	not  be	 dragged,  therefore,  to   an	 arbitrationproceeding  on the strength of an agreement to which it	 wasnot a party unless by operation of law it was deemed to be aparty  to  the	agreement,  learned  counsel  gave  up	 hispreliminary  objection	and conceded that  the	question  ofliability must be decided in this case with reference to theprovisions of the Independence Order, 1947, and the  DefenceOrder, 1947.It  is	convenient  at this stage to set  out  the  relevantprovisions of the two Orders.  The Defence Order, 1947,	 wasmade in exercise of the powers conferred by.. sub-s. (1)  ofs.  9 and in pursuance of sub-s. (1) of s. II of the  IndianIndependence Act, 1947, and was published1045on August 11, 1947.  The Independence Order, 1947, was	madein  exercise of the powers conferred by s. 9 of	 the  IndianIndependence  Act,  1947, and was published  on	 August	 14,1947.	Both  came  into force at once.	 Article  3  of	 theDefence Order, 1947, states:"  (1) As from the 15th day of August, 1947, there shall  beset  up a Council to be known as the Joint  Defence  Councilfor India and Pakistan.(2)The	said Council, hereinafter referred to as  the  JointDefence Council, shall consist of-(i)the Governor-General of India, (ii) the Defence  Ministerof  India, (iii) the Defence Minister of Pakistan, and	(iv)the  Supreme Commander of His Majesty's forces in India	 andPakistan (hereinafter referred to as the Supreme Commander)."Article 8, so far as it is relevant, is in these terms:"  The Joint Defence Council shall be in  exclusive  controlof-(a)the	division of the Indian forces between the  Dominionsand their reconstitution as two separate Dominion forces(b)the allocation, transfer and movement of officers and menbelonging to the Indian forces for the purposes of such	 re-constitution;(c)the allocation, transfer and movement for the purposes ofsuch reconstitution of plant, machinery equipment and storesheld  by the Governor-General in Council immediately  beforethe 15th day of August, 1947, for the purposes of the Indianforces etc."The  Independence  Order, 1947, states in Art.	2  that	 the'appointed day' means the fifteenth August, 1947.  Article 3so far as it is relevant for our purpose, states:"  (1)	The provisions of this Order relate to	the  initialdistribution	of   rights,   property	  and	 liabilitiesconsequential  on the setting up of the Dominions  of  Indiaand Pakistan, and shall have effect subject to any agreementbetween the two Dominions or the Provinces concerned and  toany award that may be made by the Arbitral Tribunal.(2)Nothing in this Order affects the powers of control	overmilitary plant, machinery, equipment1046and  stores  conferred on the Joint Defence Council  by	 theJoint Defence Council Order, 1947.   Article 8(1), which is very important for our purpose, isin these terms:" (1) Any contract made on behalf of the Governor-General inCouncil before the appointed day shall, as from that day,-(a)if  the contract is for purposes which as from  that	 dayare  exclusively  purposes of the Dominion of  Pakistan,  bedeemed	to  have  been made on behalf  of  the	Dominion  ofPakistan instead of the Governor-General in Council; and(b)in any other case, be deemed to have been made on  behalfof the Dominion of India instead of the Governor-General  inCouncil;and  all  rights and liabilities which have accrued  or	 mayaccrue under any such contract shall, to the extent to whichthey would have been rights or liabilities of the  Governor-General in Council, be rights or liabilities of the Dominionof Pakistan or the Dominion of India, as the case may be.  "The first question is, what is the true scope and effect  ofArt. 8(1) of the Independence Order, 1947?  Does it apply tothe contract in question, and, if so, does the contract fallwithin	the purview of cl. (a) or cl. (b) ? At one stage  ofthe  argument, learned counsel for the respondent  contendedthat Art. 8(1) did not apply to what is sometimes  describedas  executed  contracts; this point was	 also  urged  beforeKapur  J. of the Punjab High Court (as he then was) and	 oneof the reasons given by him for a reference of the case to alarger	bench was the difficulty he felt if the contract  inquestion  which has been performed and executed long  beforeAugust	15,  1947, so far as the respondent  was  concerned,attracted  the	operation of cl. (a) of Art.  8(1).   It  isnecessary to appreciate clearly the distinction between	 thetwo  classes of contracts where the consideration is  eitherexecuted or executory.	" An executed consideration consistsof  an	act for a promise.  It is the act  which  forms	 theconsideration.........	No  contract is	 formed	 unless	 anduntil the act1047is  performed, e.g., the payment for a railway	ticket,	 butthe  act stipulated for exhausts the consideration, so	thatany  subsequent promise, without further  consideration,  ismerely	a  nudum  pactum In an	executed  consideration	 theliability  is outstanding on one side only; it is a  presentas  opposed  to	 a future consideration.   In  an  executoryconsideration  the liability is outstanding on	both  sides.It is in fact a promise for a promise; one promise is boughtby  the	 other	The contract is concluded  as  soon  as	 thepromises are exchanged.	 In mercantile contracts this is  byfar  the  most common variety.	In other words,	 a  contractbecomes binding on the exchange of valid promises, one beingthe  consideration for the other.  It is  clear,  therefore,that  there  is nothing to prevent one of the  parties	fromcarrying out his promise at once, i.e., performing his	partof  the contract; whereas the other party who  provides	 theconsideration  for the act of or detriment to the first	 maynot  carry out his part of the bargain	simultaneously	withthe first party.  " (Chitty on Contracts, Vol.	I, 21st Edn.pp.  43-44).   On  a  plain reading  of	 Art.  8(1)  of	 theIndependence  Order,  1947, it is clear that it	 applies  toboth classes of cases; it says, in its concluding part, that"  all	rights	and liabilities which have  accrued  or	 mayaccrue	 under	any  such  contract,  shall  be	 rights	  orliabilities  of the Dominion of Pakistan or the Dominion  ofIndia,	as the case may be." If the contract has been  fullyand  completely performed on both sides, no question of	 anyfurther rights and liabilities under the contract is  likelyto  arise.   If, however, the contract is one in  which	 theconsideration is executed on one side, there will be a righton  one side and an outstanding liability on the other.	  Ifthe consideration is executory on both sides, there will  beoutstanding  rights  and  liabilities  on  both	 sides.	  Intalking	 of " all rights and liabilities which have  accruedor  may	 accrue"  under the contract,  the  Article  clearlycontemplates  both classes of cases.  On this  question,  weapprove of the view taken in Elahi Bux v. Union of India (1)and Krishna Ranjan v.(1)  A.I.R. 1952 Cal. 471.1048Union  of India (1) and disapprove of the view expressed  byRoxburgh  J.  in  Union of India v. Loke  Nath	(2).      It  is further clear that the first part of  Art.	 8(1)creates	 a  legal fiction.  The contract  is  actually	madebefore	August	15, 1947, (the appointed day); but  as	fromthat date, the contract shall be deemed to have been made onbehalf	of the Dominion of Pakistan, if the contract is	 forpurposes which as from that day are exclusively purposes  ofthe Dominion of Pakistan, and in any other case it shall  bedeemed to have been made on behalf of the Dominion of India.What  is the proper meaning of the expression "	 a  contractfor the exclusive purposes of the Dominion of Pakistan"?  Weassent	to  the view expressed by Chagla C.J.  in  Union  ofIndia v. Chinu Bhai Jeshingbhai (3).  Said the learned ChiefJustice- "  It	is clear from the language used in art. 8  that	 thetest  to  be  applied with regard to this  contract  is	 notwhether the contract was for the purposes of the Dominion ofPakistan  at  the date when it was made. Ex  hypothesi	thattest is clearly inapplicable.  All contracts contemplated byart.  8	 must  be contracts which when	made  were  made  byundivided  India  by the Governor-General in  Council.	 Thetest that must be applied is an artificial test and the testmay  be	 either	 if the contract had been  entered  into  onAugust	15, 1947, whether it would have been a contract	 forthe purposes of the Dominion of Pakistan, or if the Dominionof  Pakistan  had been in existence when  the  contract	 wasentered into, whether it would have been a contract for	 thepurposes of Pakistan."This, we think, is the correct test to apply for determiningthe  true scope and effect of Art. 8(1) of the	IndependenceOrder, 1947, and applying this test, there is no doubt	thatthe  contract  in question comes under cl. (a) of  the	saidArticle.   The purpose of the contract was to supply  fodderto  the	 Manager, Military Farms, Lahore  Cantonment,  whichfarms  were in Pakistan on the appointed day.  The  contractwas, therefore(1)  A.T.R. 1954 Cal. 623.(2)  A.I.R. 1952 Cal. 140.(3) I.L.R. 1953 Bom. 117, 130.1049exclusively for the purposes of the Dominion of Pakistan  asfrom the appointed day.The  second  question is-do the provisions  of	the  DefenceOrder, 1947, make any difference in the legal position ? TheHigh  Court thought, erroneously in our opinion,  that	theydid.  It is true that cl. (2) of Art. 3 of the	IndependenceOrder,	1947,  says that nothing in that Order	affects	 thepowers of control over military plant, machinery,  equipmentand  stores  conferred on the Joint Defence Council  by	 theDefence	  Order'  1947.	  Clause  (3)  of  Art.	 3  of	 theIndependence Order, 1947, states that the powers of  controlover  property	conferred upon each Dominion  by  the  Ordershall  include	all powers of use,  consumption,  managementetc.  This, however, is subject to such powers of control asare  given  to the Joint Defence Council.  Those  powers  ofcontrol are laid down in Art. 8 of the Defence Order,  1947,el.  (c) of which relates to "the allocation,  transfer	 andmovement  for the purposes of such reconstitution of  plant,machinery,  equipment  and  stores held	 by  the'  Governor-General	 in  Council  immediately before  the  15th  day  ofAugust,	 1947, for the purposes of the Indian  forces."	 Thepoint which is to be emphasised is that what is saved by cl.(2) of Art. 3 of the Independence Order, 1947, is 'Powers ofcontrol' of the Joint Defence Council with regard to certainessential military equipment etc. includingstores.  There isno  provision in the Defence Order, 1947, which affects	 therights and liabilities of any of the two Dominions aris. ingout  of	 a contract, and those rights  and  liabilities	 aredealt  with  by the Independence Order, 1947.	The  learnedJudges	of  the High Court thought that the  Defence  Order,1947,  made a difference in the legal position in so far  asthe  purpose of the contract was concerned.   They  realisedand said that ordinarily the purpose of supplying fodder  tothe  Military Farms at Lahore was a purpose exclusively	 forthe  Dominion  of  Pakistan; but they thought  that  on	 theassumption  that  'bhoosa'  was military  store,  the  JointDefence Council had powers of control over it and could sendit wherever they wanted it to be sent; therefore, they1351050said  that  the purpose of the contract was  not  a  purposeexclusively for the Dominion of Pakistan.We  say this with great respect, but this line of  reasoningappears to us to be due to a lack of proper appreciation  ofthe  distinction between the "purpose of the  contract"	 andthe  "ultimate	disposal of the goods"	supplied  under	 thecontract.  The purpose of the contract is not determined normodified  by  the ultimate disposal of	the  goods  suppliedunder  the  contract,  nor even by  the	 powers	 of  controlexercised  over	 the  goods  after  the	 contract  had	beenperformed  by the respondent.  Wherever the goods  might  beultimately  sent, the purpose of the contract remained	whatit  was, that is, to supply fodder to the Manager,  MilitaryFarms,	Lahore,	 which,	 on the test laid down	by  us,	 wasclearly a purpose exclusively for the Dominion of  Pakistan.The  Independence  Order, 1947,	 determines  the  respectiverights	and  liabilities  under contracts.   If,  under	 theDefence Order, 1947, some goods the liability for the  priceof which under the Independence Order, 1947, falls on,	say,India, are allotted to Pakistan, then the value thereof willhave  to be adjusted in accounts.  Such allotment  does	 notalter  the  rights  or	liabilities  determined	 under	 theIndependence  Order, 1947.  We are, therefore, of  the	viewthat the High Court of Punjab was in error in inferring thaton  the strength of certain provisons of the Defence  Order,1947,  the contract in question came within el. (b) of	Art.8(1),	and  not  cl.  (a).   We  think	 that  the   learnedSubordinate  Judge correctly held that cl. (a)	applied	 andthe Union of India had no liability under the contract.Only  a	 few  words are necessary to dispose  of  the  thirdcontention  urged before us.  The claim in the present	casewas a claim for a refund of the price paid for 24 bundles ofwire  coils and of the security deposit.  Such a  claim	 didnot relate to military stores, and the Defence Order,  1947,had no direct application to such a claim.  It was only	 forexamining  the purpose of the contract that the question  of'bhoosa' being military store arose.  The High Court assumedthat 'bhoosa' was military store.  Without deciding  whether'bhoosa' is military store or not, we have also proceeded onthe1051same  assumption; but even on that assumption, there  is  nodifference  in	the  legal position.   The  purpose  of	 thecontract  was still a purpose which, as from  the  appointedday, was a purpose exclusively for the Dominion of Pakistan.It  is worthy of note that el. (c) of Art. 8 of the  DefenceOrder,	1947,  relates	inter alia to  stores  held  by	 theGovernor-General  in Council immediately before	 August	 15,1947,  for  the purposes of the Indian	forces.	  There	 wasnothing in the record to show that the 'bhoosa' supplied  bythe  respondent in 1945 was held by the Governor-General  inCouncil	 immediately before August 15, 1947, so as  to	vestthe  power  of	control in the	Joint  Defence	Council	 andthereby affect the purpose of the contract, assuming, thoughwe  do not so decide, that such power of control can  affectthe purpose of the contract.The  original contract was not produced in this case, as  itwas  not available in the appropriate office in India.	 Therespondent  did	 not even produce a copy thereof,  but	gaveoral evidence as to the purpose of the contract.  The Courtsbelow  proceeded on that oral evidence, and the	 appeal	 wasargued	before us on that footing.  We have  determined	 thepurpose of the contract as on August 15, 1947, on the  basisof  that evidence, without deciding the further question  iforal evidence was admissible in this case as to the  purposeof the contract.For the reasons given above, we allow this appeal, set asidethe judgment and decree of the High Court, and restore thoseof  the learned Subordinate Judge.  The appellant  will	 getcosts throughout.			   Appeal allowed.1052