PETITIONER:THE BERAR SWADESHI VANASPATHI &OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE MUNICIPAL COMMITTEE, SHFGAON &ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:15/02/1957BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1962 AIR  420		  1962 SCR  Supl. (1) 596 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1965 SC 895	 (12,14,23) RF	    1966 SC 693	 (11) RF	    1970 SC  58	 (5)ACT:Octroi Tax-imposition of-Irregularities-Issuance of  Govern-ment Notification-Fffect-C.  P. & Berar Municipal .Act, 1922 (C. P.	 &  Berar 11 of 1922); s. 67, sub-ss.  (6)  and(8).HEADNOTE:The  respondent	 Municipality  passed  a  resolution   unders.67(1)	 of  the C.P. & Berar Municipal Act, 1922,  for	 thepurpose of levying an octroi duty which was published in theState	Gazette	 along	with  the  rules   for	 assessment.Objections  were invited to the said proposed tax, and	onlyone objection was filed within time which was also rejected.The  Government gave its sanction to the imposition  of	 thetax and draft Rules by two Notifications.The appellants filed a petition challenging the legality  ofthe imposition of the tax inter alia on the ground that	 thenotifications  were  ultra vires.  They contended  that	 allsteps necessary for the imposition of tax had not been takenand that objections raised within time by the respondent No.1  were	 not considered on their merits	 and  were  rejectedmerely	on the ground that there was only one- objector;  asthis was one of the essential steps for the validity: of theimposition of tax it could not be said that s. 67 of the Acthad  been  complied  with,  therefore  the  imposition	 wasinvalid.Held, that where the Government Notification clearly was onewhich directed imposition of Octroi Tax it fell within subs.(  7) of s. 67 of the Act and having been once	notified  inthe  Gazette  sub-s.  (8)  of s. 67 of	the  Act  came	intooperation  and the issue of the notification was  conclusiveevidence  of the Tax having been imposed in accordance	withthe provisions of the Act, and it could not be challenged onthe ground that all necessary steps had Rot been taken.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 234 of 1959.Appeal from the order dated February 15, 1957 of the  BombayHigh  Court  of	 Judicature  at	 Nagpur	 in  Special   CivilApplication No. 2-N of 1956.S.   P. Varma, for appellant No. 1.597B.   S. Shastri and Ganpat Rai, for respondent No. 1.B.   R. L. Iyengar and T. M. Sen, for respondent No. 2.1961.  March 28.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byKAPUR,	J.-This	 is an appeal on a certificate by  the	HighCourt of Bombay against the judgment and order of that Courtpassed	on a petition under Art. 226 of the Constitution  bythe  present  appellants in regard to the  legality  of	 thenotification levying an octroi duty on certain goods.The  appellants are some of the ratepayers of the  MunicipalCommittee  of  Shegaon	which is respondent No.	 I  in	thisappeal.	  The other respondent is the State of Bombay.	 Theappellants  were  carrying  on	trade  and  business   whichinvolved  their	 bringing  goods within the  limits  of	 theMunicipal   Committee.	 On  July  25,1954,  the   MunicipalCommittee passed a resolution for tile purpose of levying anoctroi	duty instead of terminal tax.  This  resolution	 waspublished in the State Gazette on June 29, 1956, along	withrules  for assessment.	Oil August 4, 1956, objections	wereinvited	 to the proposed tax.  The objections by  the  firstappellant  were filed on August 4, 1956, and by some  otherson  August 5 and 6. At a meeting of the Municipal  Committeedated	August	16,  1956,  the	 objections  of	 the   otherappellants  were rejected as being time barred and those  bythe  first appellant were rejected because it was  the	onlyobjector   whose   objections  were   within   time.	Somerepresentations	 were  made by the first  appellant  to	 theGovernment  and	 a few days later the other  objectors	alsomade  similar representations but the Government issued	 thenotification  sanctioning the imposition of the tax and	 theDraft  Rules  on  October  27,	1956,  though  the   GazetteNotifications  were published on two separate  dates,  i.e.,October 30 and October 31, 1956.  The appellants then  fileda  petition  under Art. 226 in the High Court of  Bombay  atNagpur	challenging the legality of the, imposition  of	 thetax.  Two main grounds were urged- (1) that the notificationwas ultra598vires because s. 67 of the C. P. & Berar Municipalities Act,1922 (Act II of 1922), hereinafter termed the 'Act', had notbeen complied with and (2) that the rate of tax in regard tocertain	 articles was unauthorised in that it was more	thanthe  maximum which could be levied under the law.  The	HighCourt  rejected	 the first ground but  accepted	 the  secondobjection and gave relief accordingly.Appellants  Nos.  2  to	 6 have	 not  taken  steps  for	 theprosecution  of the appeal and the appeal, in so far  as  itrelates to them, is dismissed for non-prosecution.The  appellant No. 1 before us has challenged the  vires  ofthe  imposition	 on  two grounds: (1)  that  all  the  stepsnecessary for the imposition of the octroi duty had not beentaken and therefore s. 67 had not been complied with and (2)that as a matter of fact there was no notification  imposingan  octroi duty.  For the purpose of the decision  of  theseobjections  it	is necessary to refer to the scheme  of	 theAct,  Chapter  IX  of  which  relates  to  the	 imposition,assessment  and collection of taxes.  Section 66  enumeratesthe  taxes  which may be imposed and s.	 67  prescribes	 theprocedure for imposing taxes.  Section 67 reads as under:---	      Section  67(1) "A committee may at  a  special	      meeting,	pass  a resolution  to	propose	 the	      imposition of any tax under section 66.	      (2)   When such a resolution has been  passed,	      the committee Bhall publish in accordance with	      rules  made under this Act, a notice  defining	      the   class  of  persons	or  description	  of	      property	proposed to be taxed, the amount  or	      rate  of the tax to be imposed and the  system	      of assessment to be' adopted.	      (3)   Any	  inhabitant  of  the	municipality	      objecting to the proposed tax may,  in  thirty	      days  from  the  publication  of	the  notice,	      submit   his  objection  in  writing  to	 the	      committee.	      (4)   The	 committee shall take  the  proposal	      and   a  objections  received   thereto	into	      consideration  at a special meeting,  and	 may	      modify the proposals so as not to affect their	      substance	 and  may then forward them  to	 the	      Provincial    Government	 along	 with	 all	      objections received, its decisions thereon	      599	      and  its reasons therefore.  If the  committee	      decided  to  modify  the proposals  so  as  to	      affect  their substance it shall publish	them	      again in the manner prescribed in	 sub-section	      (2).	      (5)   The Provincial Government, on  receiving	      such  proposals  may  sanction  or  refuse  to	      sanction the same, or sanction them subject to	      such  modifications  as it may think  fit,  or	      return  them  to	the  committee	for  further	      consideration:		(6)...................................	      (7)   If any proposals for taxation have	been	      sanctioned    under   sub-Section	  (5)	 the	      Provincial  Government  may,  by	notification	      direct the imposition of the tax as sanctioned	      from  such  date as may be specified  in	such	      notification,  and  thereupon, the  tax  shall	      come  into effect as from the date  so  speci-	      fied.	      A	 notification  of the imposition  of  a	 tax	      under   this  section  shall   be	  conclusive	      evidence	that  the tax has  been	 imposed  in	      accordance with the provision of this Act."The objection to the vires of the notification in regard  toprocedure is that the objections raised by appellant No.  1,though within time, were"not considered on their merits	 andwere  rejected merely on the ground that there was only	 oneobjector and as this was one of the essential steps for	 thevalidity  of the imposition it could not be said that s.  67had  been  complied with; and the imposition  was  thereforeinvalid.   The High Court rejected this plea because  of  s.67(8),	although  it  found that  non-consideration  of	 theobjections was an error in procedure.  The language of	sub-s.  (8)	 lends support to this view.  It provides  that	 theissuance  of  the  notification	 imposing  a  tax  shall  beconclusive  evidence  that  the	 tax  had  been	 imposed  inaccordance  with  the  provisions of the Act.	But  it	 wasargued	that as a matter of fact there was  no	notificationimposing  the tax and therefore the question  of  conclusiveevidence  does	not  arise.  This, in our  opinion,  is	 notestablished.As stated above, there were two notifications issued600by  the	 Government  both  of October  27,  1956.   One	 waspublished in the Gazette on October 30, 1956, and the  otheron  the	 following  day.   The	first  notification  was  asfollows:-	      "No. 4963-5869-M-XIII.-In exercise of the pow-	      ers conferred by sections 71, 76 and 85 of the	      Central  Provinces  and  Berar  Municipalities	      Act,  1922 (11 of 1922), the State  Government	      are  pleased to sanction the  following  draft	      rules for assessment, collection and refund of	      the  octroi  tax	within	the  limits  of	 the	      Shegaon Municipality, in the Buldana District.	      The rules shall come into force from the	date	      of  their publication in the  'Madhya  Pradesh	      Gazette Extraordinary' ".	      And the second notification stated:-	      "No. 4962-5869-M-XIII.-In exercise of the pow-	      ers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 67	      of    the	  Central   Provinces	and    Berar	      Municipalities  Act,  1922 (II of	 1922),	 the	      State  Government are pleased to	confirm	 the	      following	 draft rules for the  imposition  of	      the  octroi  tax	within	the  limits  of	 the	      SHEGAON  MUNICIPAL COMMITTEE, in	the  Buldana	      district,	 under clause (c) of sub- s. (1)  of	      section  66  of the said Act, on	animals	 and	      goods brought for sale, expenditure or use  in	      supersession  of	the rules of  terminal	tax,	      sanctioned under Notification No.	 3716-B-VIII	      dated the 15th February, 1921.	      The rules shall come into force from the	date	      of  their publication in the  'Madhya  Pradesh	      Gazette Extraordinary"'.The  first  notification purports to be in exercise  of	 thepowers under s. 71 which relates to Rules for assessment andfor  preventing evasion of assessment of taxes; s. 76  whichprovides for collection of taxes and s. 85 which relates  torefunds.  That notification therefore lays down the  variousrules  and  other matters necessary for	 the  collection  oftaxes.	 The second notification on the face of it is  undersub-s.	(2)  of	 s. 67.	 It appears to us  that	 this  is  amistake and should have been under sub-a. (7) of s. 67.	  Bythis  notification the State Government confirmed the  draftrules for601the imposition of the octroi duty which in the context	mustmean  imposition  of  the tax because the  very	 first	rulestates:-	      Rule  1 "Octroi shall ordinarily be levied  on	      commodities included in the following  classes	      and  specified in the schedule hereto  annexed	      and at the rates therein entered".The  various  classes of articles and commodities  on  whichoctroi	was  to	 be levied are then set	 out  and  then	 theexceptions and explanations are given.	With these rules arethe  schedules specifying the goods under each	class  whichare  liable to octroi duty and the rate at which the  octroiduty was chargeable.  This notification therefore clearly isone which directs imposition of octroi and falls within sub-s.  (7) of s. 67 and having been notified in the Gazette  itis  conclusive	evidence of the tax having been	 imposed  inaccordance  with the provisions of the Act and it cannot  bechallenged  on the ground that all the necessary  steps	 hadnot been taken.In our opinion this appeal is without force and is thereforedismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.