PETITIONER:IN  RE	THE KERALA EDUCATION BILL,  1957.   REFERENCE  UNDER	Vs.RESPONDENT:DATE OF JUDGMENT:15/03/1958BENCH:ACT:President's Refercnce-Kerala Education Bill,  1957-Constitu-tional validity-Advisoyy jurisdiction of the Supreme  Court,scope  of-Cultural  and educational  rights  of	 minorities-Constitution of India, Arts. 143(1), 14, 29, 30 and 226.HEADNOTE:This was a reference under Art. 143(1) of the Constitutionmade by the President of India for obtaining the opinion  ofthe996Court upon certain questions relating to the  constitutionalvalidity  of some of the provisions of the Kerala  EducationBill, 1957, which had been passed by the Kerala	 LegislativeAssembly   but	was  reserved  by  the	Governor   for	 theconsideration of the President.	 The Bill, as its title	 andpreamble   indicated,	had  for  its  object	the   betterOrganisation  and  development of  the	educational  servicethroughout  the State, presumably, in implementation of	 theprovisions of Art. 45 of the Constitution and conferred widepowers of control on the State Government in respect of bothaided  and recognised institutions.  Of the  four  questionsreferred  to  this Court, the first and third  impugned	 cl.3(5)  read  with  cl. 36 and cl. 15 of	the  Bill  as  beingdiscriminatory under Art. 14, the second impugned cls. 3(5),8(3)  and  cls. 9 to 13 Of the Bill as	being  violative  ofminority rights guaranteed by Art. 30(1) and the fourth, cl.33  of the Bill, as offending Art. 226 of the  Constitution.Clause 3(5) of the Bill made the recognition of new  schoolssubject	 to the other provisions of the Bill and  the  rulesframed by the Government under cl. (36), Cl. (15) authorisedthe Government to acquire any category of 'Schools, cl. 8(3)made  it  obligatory on all aided schools to hand  over	 thefees to the Government, cls. 9 to 13 made provisions for theregulation and management of the schools, payment of  salaryto  the	 teachers  and the terms  and  conditions  of  theirappointment  and cl. (33) forbade the granting of  temporaryinjunctions  and interim orders in restraint of	 proceedingsunder the Act.	This Court took the view that since cl. 3(5)attracted  the other provisions of the Bill, in case  anyoneof  them was found to be unconstitutional, cl.	3(5)  itselfcould not escape censure.Held  (per Das C. J., Bhagwati, B. P. Sinha, Jafer Imam,  S.K.  Das and J. L. Kapur JJ.), that although Art.  143(1)  Ofthe Constitution, which virtually reproduced the  provisionsof s. 213(1) of the Government of India Act, 1935, gave thisCourt  the discretion, where it thought fit, to	 decline  toexpress	 any  opinion on the questions referred to  it,	 theobjection  that	 such questions related, not  to  a  statutebrought	 into force but, to the validity of a Bill that	 wasyet  to	 be  enacted, could be no ground  for  declining  toentertain the reference.Article	 143(1) of the Constitution had for its	 object	 theremoval	 of  the doubts at the President and was in  no	 wayconcerned  with any doubts that a party might entertain	 andno  reference  could  be incomplete or	incompetent  on	 theground	that it did not include other questions	 that  couldhave been included in it and it was not for this Court to gobeyond the reference and discuss them.The  Advisory  jurisdiction  conferred by  Art.	 143(1)	 wasdifferent  from	 that  conferred  by  Art.  143(2)  of	 theConstitution  in that the latter made it obligatory on	thisCourt to answer the reference.In re Levy of Estate Duty, [1944] F.C.R. 3.17, relied on.997Attorney-General  for  Ontario v. Hamilton  Street  Railway,[1903] A.C.  524, Attorney-General for British Columbia	 v.Attorney-General  for  Canada, [1914] A. C. 153, ln  re	 TheRegulation  and Control of Aeronautics In Canada, [1932]  A.C. 54, In re Allocation of Lands and Buildings, [1943] F. C.R.  20	and In Ye Delhi Laws Act, 1912, [1951]	S.C.R.	747,considered.A  directive principle of State policy could not override  afundamental right and must subserve it, but no Court  shouldin  determining the ambit of a fundamental  right,  entirelyignore a directive principle but should try to give as	mucheffect	to  both as possible by adopting  the  principle  ofharmonious construction.State of Madras v. Smt.	 Champakam Doraiyajan, [1951] S.C.R.525 and Mohd.  Hanif Quayeshi v. The State of Bihar,  [1959]S.C.R. 629, referred to.In  answering the questions under reference, the  merits  orotherwise  of  the policy of the Government  sponsoring	 theBill could be no concern of this Court and its sole duty wasto  pronounce its opinion on the constitutional validity  ofsuch  provisions  of  the  Bill	 as  were  covered  by	 thequestions.judged in the light of the principles laid down by a  seriesof  decisions  of  this	 Court explaining  Art.	 14  Of	 theConstitution,  the  clauses  of the Bill  that	came  withinquestions 1 and 3 could not be said to be violative of	thatArticle.The restriction imposed by cl. 3(5) read with cl. 26 of	 theBill,  which  made it obligatory on the	 guardians  to	sendtheir  wards to a Government or a private school in an	areaof  compulsion and thus made it impossible for a new  schoolin  such  area,	 seeking neither  aid  nor  recognition,  tofunction,  could not be said to be discriminatory since	 theState	knew  best  the	 needs	of  its	 people,  and	suchdiscrimination	was quite permissible, based, as it was,  ongeographical classification.Mohd.  Hanif Ouareshi v. The State of Bihar, [1959] S. C. R.629,  Chiyanjit Lal Chowdhury v. The Union of India,  [1950]S.C.R.	1045,  Ramkrishna  Dalmia  v.  Sri  justice  S.	  R.Tendolkar, [1959] S.C.R. 279, referred to.No  statute  could be discriminatory unless  its  provisionsdiscriminated, and since the provisions of the Bill did	 notdo  so,	 it  could  not	 be  said  to  have  violated  equalprotection  of	law  by	 its  uniform  application  to	 alleducational institutions although not similarly situate.Cumberland  Coal Co. v. Board of Revision, (1931) 284 U.  S.23; 76 L. Ed. 146, held inapplicable.The  policy and purpose of a statute could be  deduced	fromits  long  title and the preamble.  The impugned  Bill	laiddown  its  policy  in the long title and  the  preamble	 andreinforced it by998more  definite	statements  in the  different  clauses	and,consequently,  such discretion as it left to the  Governmenthad to be exercised in implementing that policy.  The use ofthe word may in cl. 3(3) could make no difference, for	oncethe  purpose  was  established and  the	 conditions  of	 theexercise of the discretion were fulfilled, it was  incumbenton  the	 Government to exercise it in  furtherance  of	thatpurpose.   If it failed to do so, the failure, and  not	 theBill, must be censured.Biswambar  Singh v. The State of Orissa, [1954]	 S.C.R.	 842and  Julius  v. Lord Bishop of Oxford, (1880) 5	 App.	CaS.214, referred to.Discretionary power was not necessarily discriminatory,	 andabuse  of  power  by the Government  could  not	 be  lightlyassumed.   Apart  from	laying down the	 policy,  the  StateLegislature provided for effective control by itself by	 cl.37  and	 the proviso to cl. 15 of the Bill.  It	 could	not,therefore,  be	said  that the Bill  conferred	unguided  oruncontrolled powers on the Government.Article	 30(1)	Of the Constitution, which was	a  necessaryconcomitant to Art. 29(1) and gave the minorities the  rightto  establish  and administer their  institutions,  did	 notdefine the word 'minority', nor was it defined anywhere elseby  the	 Constitution, but it was absurd to suggest  that  aminority  or section envisaged by Art. 30(1) and Art.  29(1)could  mean  only such persons as  constituted	a  numericalminority  in  the particular region  where  the	 educationalinstitution was situated or resided under a local authority.Article 350-A of the Constitution, properly construed, couldlend no support to such a proposition.	As the impugned Billextended  to the entire State, minorities in the State	mustbe  determined	on the basis of its entire  population,	 andthus the Christians, the Muslims and the Anglo-Indians wouldbe its minority communities.Article	 30(1)	of  the	 Constitution  made  no	 distinctionbetween	 minority  institutions	 existing  from	 before	 theConstitution  or established thereafter and protected  both.It  did	 not require that a minority institution  should  beconfined  to  the  members  of the  community  to  which  itbelonged and a minority institution could not cease to be soby admitting a non-member to it.Nor  did  Art.	30(1) in any way limit the  subjects  to  betaught in a minority institution, and its crucial words " oftheir own choice ", clearly indicated that the ambit of	 therights	it conferred was determinable by the nature  of	 theinstitutions   that  the  minority  communities	  chose	  toestablish   and	 the  three  categories	 into	which	suchinstitutions  could thus be classified were (1)	 those	thatsought neither aid nor recognition from the State, (2) thosethat  sought aid, and (3) those that sought recognition	 butnot  aid.   The	 impugned  Bill	 was  concerned	 only	withinstitutions of the second and third categories.999The word 'aid' used by Arts. 29(2) and 30(2) included grant'under  Art. 337 of the Constitution and that word  occurringin the Bill must have the same meaning.	 Consequently,	suchclauses	 of the Bill mentioned in question No. 2 as  imposedfresh and stringent conditions precedent to such grant	overand above those to which it was subject under Arts. 337	 and29(2), violated not only Art. 337 but also, in substance andeffect,	 Art.  30(1) of the Constitution and  were  to	thatextent void.Rashid Ahmad v. Municipal Board, Kaiyana, [1950] S.C.R. 566,Mohd.	Yasin v. The Town Area Committee, jalalabad,  [1952]S.C.R.	572  and  The State of Bombay  v.  Bombay  EducationSociety, [1955] 1 S.C.R. 568, referred to.Although  there was no constitutional right to the grant  ofaid  except for Anglo-Indian educational institutions  underArt. 337 Of the Constitution, State aid was indispensable toeducational  institutions and Arts:, 28(2), 29(2) and  30(2)clearly contemplated the grant of such aid and Arts. 41	 and46  charged  the State with the duty of	 aiding	 educationalinstitutions and promoting such interests of the minorities.But  the right of the minorities to administer their  educa-tional	institutions under Art. 30(1), was not	inconsistentwith  the right of the State to insist on proper  safeguardsagainst maladministration by imposing reasonable regulationsas conditions precedent to the grant of aid.  That did	not,however,  mean	that  the State Legislature  could,  in	 theexercise  of its powers of legislation under Arts.  245	 and246 of the Constitution, override the fundamental rights  byemploying  indirect methods, for what it had no power to  dodirectly, it could not do indirectly.So  judged, cl. 3(5) of the Bill by bringing into  operationand  imposing cls. 14 and 15 as conditions precedent to	 thegrant of aid, violated Art. 30(1) of the Constitution.Similar	 considerations	 applied  to  the  grant  of   Staterecognition as well.  No minority institution could  fulfillits  real  object or effectively exercise its  rights  underArt. 30(1) without State recognition, as otherwise it  wouldnot  be	 open to its scholars under the	 Education  Code  toavail  of  the	opportunities for higher  education  in	 theUniversity  or	enter  the public services.   While  it	 wasundoubtedly true that there could be no fundamental right toState  recognition,  denial of recognition  except  on	suchterms  as virtually amounted to a surrender of the right  toadminister  the institution, must, in substance	 and  effectinfringe Art. 30(1) of the Constitution.Clause 3(5), read with Cl. 20 of the Bill, in forbidding thecharging  of tuition fees in the primary  classes,  deprivedthe  minority  institutions of a fruitful source  of  incomewithout	 compensation, as was provided by cl. (9) for  aidedschools,  and  thus imposed a condition precedent  to  Staterecognition which was in1271000effect	violative of Art. 30(1) and was, therefore, void  tothat  extent.	No rules, when framed under the	 Act,  couldcure such invalidity.Article	 45  of the Constitution did not require  the  StateGovernment  to provide free and compulsory education to	 thedetriment    of	  minority   rights   guaranteed   by	 theConstitution,if	 the  Government  so chose it  could  do  sothrough the Government and aided schools, and this Court wasin  duty  bound	 to uphold such fundamental  rights  as	 theConstitution  had  thought  fit to confer  on  the  minoritycommunities.The  wide  powers  and jurisdiction conferred  on  the	HighCourts by Art. 226 of the Constitution could not be affectedby  a provision such as cl. (33) of the Bill, which  forbadeCourts	to issue temporary injunctions or interim orders  inrestraint of any proceedings thereunder, and it must be readas  subject to the overriding provisions of Art. 226 of	 theConstitution.Venkatarama  Aiyar J.-It was obvious that Art. 30(1) Of	 theConstitution did not in terms confer a right on the minorityinstitutions to State recognition, nor, properly  construed,could  it do so by implication, for such an implication,  ifraised, would be contrary to the express provisions of	Art.45  Of	the  Constitution.   Article  30(1)  was   primarilyintended  to protect such minority institutions as  impartedpurely	religious education and to hold that the  State	 wasbound  thereunder  to recognise them would be  not  only  torender	Art. 45 wholly infructuous but also to	nullify	 thebasic  concept	of  the	 Constitution  itself,	namely,	 itssecular character.There was no conflict here between a fundamental right and adirective principle of State policy that must yield, and theprinciple  of Art. 45 must have full play.  Clause  (20)  ofthe Bill was designed to enforce that principle and cl. 3(5)Of  the	 Bill in making it a condition	precedent  to  Staterecognition   could   not   violate  Art.   30(1)   Of	 theConstitution.Nor  could a consideration of the policy behind	 Art.  30(1)lead  to a different conclusion, assuming that the  questionof policy could be gone into apart from the language,  sincethat policy was no other than that the majority community ofthe State should not have the power to destroy or impair thereligious or linguistic rights of the minority communities.The  only  two obligations, one a positive and the  other  anegative,  that	 Art. 30(1) read with Arts. 25, 26,  29	 and30(2)  of the Constitution imposed on the State were (1)  toextend equal treatment as regards aid or recognition to	 alleducational institutions, including those of the minorities,religious  or  linguistic,  and	 (2)  not  to  prohibit	 theestablishment of minority institutions or to interfere	withtheir administration.To  hold that the State Government was further	bound  underArt.  30(1) to accord recognition to  minority	institutionswould be1001to  put the minorities in a more favoured position than	 themajority    community,	 which	 the   Constitution    nevercontemplated.City   Winnipeg	 v.  Barrett : City of	Winnipeg  v.  Logan,[1892] A.C. 445, referred to.JUDGMENT:ADVISORY JURISDICTION: Special Reference No. 1 of 1958.Reference by the President of India under Article 143(1)  ofthe  Constitution  of India on the  Kerala  Education  Bill,1957.The  circumstances  which  led	to  this  Reference  by	 thePresident  and the questions referred appear from  the	fulltext  of  the  Reference  dated March  15,  1958,  which  isreproduced below:-WHEREAS the Legislative Assembly of the state of Kerala	 haspassed	a  Bill to provide for the better  Organisation	 anddevelopment  of	 educational institutions in  the  State  ofKerala	(hereinafter referred to as the	 Kerala	 EducationalBill);AND WHEREAS the said Bill, a copy whereof is annexed hereto,has  been reserved by the Governor of Kerala, under  article200 of the Constitution, for my consideration ;AND  WHEREAS  sub-clause 3 of clause (3) of  the  said	Billenables	 the Government of Kerala, inter alia, to  recogniseany school established and maintained by any person or	bodyof  persons for the purpose of providing the facilities	 setout in sub-clause (2) of the said clause to wit,  facilitiesfor  general  education,  special  education  and  for	 thetraining of teachers ;AND  WHEREAS  sub-clause (5) of clause 3 of  the  said	Billprovides, inter alia, that any new school established or anyhigher	class opened in any private school, after  the	Billhas become an Act and the Act has come into force, otherwisethan  in accordance with the provisions of the Act  and	 therules  made under section 36 thereof, shall not be  entitledto be recognised by the Government of Kerala;AND WHEREAS a doubt has arisen whether the provisions of thesaid sub-clause (5) of clause 3 of the said Bill confer uponthe Government an unguided1002power  in regard to the recognition of new schools and	 theopening	 of  higher classes in any private school  which  iscapable	  of   being   exercised   in	an   arbitrary	 anddiscriminatory manner;AND WHEREAS a doubt has further arisen whether such power ofrecognition of new schools and of higher classes in  privateschools	 is  not  capable of being  exercised  in  a  manneraffecting  the right of the minorities guaranteed by  clause(1)  of	 article  30 of the Constitution  to  establish	 andadminister educational institutions of their choice;AND  WHEREAS  sub-clause (3) of clause 8 of  the  said	Billrequires  all fees and other dues, other than special  fees,collected  from the students in an aided school to  be	madeover  to the Government of Kerala in such manner as  may  beprescribed,   notwithstanding  anything	 contained  in	 anyagreement, scheme or arrangement ;AND  WHEREAS  a doubt has arisen  whether  such	 requirementwould  not affect the right of the minorities guaranteed  byclause	(1) of article 30 of the Constitution to  administereducational institutions established by them;AND  WHEREAS  clauses  9 to 13 confer  upon  the  Governmentcertain	 powers	 in regard to the  administration  of  aidedschools;,AND WHEREAS a doubt has arisen whether the exercise of	suchpowers in regard to educational institutions established  bythe minorities would not affect the right to administer themguaranteed by clause (1) of article 30 of the Constitution;AND  WHEREAS  clause  15  of  the  said	 Bill  empowers	 theGovernment  of Kerala to take over, by notification  in	 theGazette, any category of aided schools in any specified areaor  areas,  if	they are satisfied  that  for  standardisinggeneral	 education in the State of Kerala or  for  improvingthe  level of literacy in any area or for  more	 effectivelymanaging  the aided educational institutions in an  area  orfor  bringing education of any category under  their  directcontrol it is necessary to do so in the public interest, on1003payment of compensation on the basis of market value of	 theschools so taken over after deducting therefrom the  amountsof aids or grants given by that Government for	requisition,construction or improvement of the property of the schools;AND  WHEREAS  a doubt has arisen whether such power  is	 notcapable	  of   being   exercised  in   any   arbitrary	 anddiscriminatory manner;AND  WHEREAS  clause  33 of the	 said  Bill  provides  that,notwithstanding	 anything  contained in the  Code  of  CivilProcedure,  1908,  or any other law for the  time  being  inforce, no courts can grant any temporary injunction or	makeany interim order restraining any proceedings which is beingor about to be taken under the Act;AND WHEREAS a doubt has arisen whether the provisions of thesaid clause 33, in so far as they relate to the jurisdictionof  the	 High  Courts,	would  offend  article	226  of	 theConstitution ;AND  WHEREAS  there  is	 likelihood  of	 the  constitutionalvalidity  of  the  provisions  of  the	Bill  herein  beforereferred  to  being questioned in courts of  law,  involvingconsiderable litigation ;AND WHEREAS, in view of what has been here in before stated,it  appears to me that the questions of law hereinafter	 setout  have  arisen  and	are  of	 such  nature  and  of	suchimportance  that  it is expedient that the  opinion  of	 theSupreme Court of India should be obtained thereon;NOW, THEREFORE, in exercise of the powers conferred upon  meby  clause  (1)	 of  article 143  of  the  Constitution,  1,Rajendra  Prasad,  President  of  India,  hereby  refer	 thefollowing  questions  to  the Supreme  Court  of  India	 forconsideration and report thereon, namely :-"  (1)	Does  sub-clause  (5) of  clause  3  of	 the  KeralaEducation  Bill, read with clause 36 thereof, or any of	 theprovisions of the said sub-clause, offend article 14 of	 theConstitution in any particulars or to any extent ?(2)  Do sub-clause (5) of clause 3, sub-clause (3) of1004clause	8 and clauses 9 to 13 of Kerala Education  Bill	  orany  provisions thereof, offend clause (1) of article 30  ofthe Constitution in any particulars or to any extent?(3)  Does  clause  15 of the Kerala Education Bill,  or	 anyprovisions thereof, offend article 14 of the Constitution inany particulars or to any extent ?(4)  Does  clause  33 of the Kerala Education Bill,  or	 anyprovisions  thereof, offend article 226 of the	Constitutionin any particulars or to any extent ? "1958.  April 29, 30.  May 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 12. M.  0.Setalvad,  Attorney-General  for  India,  C.  K.   Daphtary,Solicitor-General   of	India,	H.  N.	Sanyal,	  AdditionalSolicitor--General  of India, G. N. Joshi and R. H.  Dhebar,for   the   President  of  India.   The	 preamble   to	 theConstitution  of India lays emphasis on liberty of  thought,expression,  belief,  faith  and  worship  and	assures	 thedignity	 of the individual.  To give effect to these  idealsthe   Constitution  provides  fundamental  rights  for	 theindividuals  in Arts. 19, 25 and 28 and for groups in  Arts.26,  29 and 30.	 The fundamental rights in Arts. 29  and  30are  absolute  and no restrictions can be  placed  on  them,though	restrictions  can  be placed  on  other	 fundamentalrights.	 These rights may be compared with the rights  underArt.  44  (2)  of the Irish Constitution and s.	 93  of	 theBritish North America Act.  The freedoms conferred by  Arts.26,  29	 and  30  were	considered  by	this  Court  in	 TheCommissioner,  Hindu  Religious Endowments,  Madras  v.	 SriLakshmindra  Thirtha Swamiar of Sri Shirur Mulutt, (  [1954]S.C.R. 1005 at 1028-1029) and The State of Bombay v.  BombayEducation Society, ( [1955] 1 S.C.R. 568 at 578, 580,  586).Article	 30  (1) gives absolute right to the  minorities  toestablish  and administer educational institutions of  theirchoice.	  The Constitution having ensured religious  freedomunder  Art.  26 and cultural freedom in Art.  29,  left	 themeans  to  promote  and	 conserve  these  freedoms  to	 theminorities themselves to work out under Art. 30 (1).Clause	3  (5) of the Kerala Education Bill  which  providesthat the establishment of new schools and opening of  higherclasses shall be according to the Rules to1005be  framed under cl. 36 to entitle them to be recognised  bythe  Government,  confers upon the  executive  unguided	 anduncontrolled  powers and offends Art. 14.  The'	 legislaturedoes not lay down any policy, but leaves it to the executivetinder the rule-making powers.	A. Thangal Kunju Musaliar v.M.  Venkitachalam  Potti,  ([1955] 2 S.C.R.  1196  at  1239,1241); The State of West Bengal v. Anwar Ali Sarkar, ([1952]S.C.R. 284 at 345, 346).It  is incorrect to say that Christians and Muslims are	 notminorities  in	Kerala.	  When the  Constitution  speaks  ofminorities it speaks on an all India basis.  The fact that acertain	 community  formed  a very high	 percentage  of	 thepopulation  in a particular State did not detract  from	 itsstatus	as  a  minority.  The provisions of  the  Bill	makeillusory  the rights granted by Art. 30 (1)  to	 minorities.By using the instrument of Government aid the Bill seeks  todeprive	 the minorities of their right to  administer  theirown schools. Shirur Mutt Case, ( [1954] S.C.R. 1005 at 1028,1029).	 The  right of the minorities under  Art.  30(1)  toestablish  and administer their institutions is an  absoluteand  unfettered right and is consistent with  their  gettingaid  from  the Government.  Article 337 makes  special	pro-vision for educational grants for the benefit of the  Anglo-Indian	community.  Article 30 (1) is infringed whether	 theschools	 go  in for aid or not.	 Clause 8 (3)  of  the	Billunder  which in all aided schools all fees, etc.,  collectedfrom  the  students  will  have	 to  be	 made  over  to	 theGovernment   deprives  the  management	of  the	  right	  ofadministration.	  Pierce v. Society of Holy  Sisters  Names,(69 L. Ed. 1070 at 1077); Maher v. Nebraska, (67 L. Ed. 1042at 1044).Clause 15 of the Bill empowers the Government to acquire anycategory  of  aided  schools in any  specified	area.	Thisclause is wholly subversive of Art. 30 (1).  It also offendsArt. 14 as it empowers the Government to pick and choose anyschools,  by suitably selecting the category and  area,	 foracquisition,  no criteria having been laid down	 for  makingthe choice.Clause 33 of the Bill prohibits all Courts from1006granting any temporary injunction or interim order regardingany  proceedings  taken under the Act.	To the	extent	thatthis  clause  infringes	 Art. 226 or Art. 32,  it  is  void.Interim	 orders	 are also passed under Arts. 226 and  32  asancillary to the main relief.  The State of Orissa v.  MadanGopal Rungta, ( [1952] S.C.R. 28 at 34).     Halsbury's Lawsof England, 3rd Edn., Vol. 11, p.  110, para. 204.Kaslival, Advocate-General of Rajasthan, R.H. Dhebar and  T.M. Sen, for the State of Rajasthan adopted the arguments  ofthe Attorney-General for India.G.   S.	 Pathak,  with M. R. Krishna Pillai for	 the  KeralaChristian Education Action Committee, with J. B.  Dadachanjifor  the Kerala School Managers Association and with  V.  O.Abraham and J. B. Dadachanji for the Aided School  Managers'Association  in	 Badogara and Quilandy,	 Catholic  Union  ofIndia  and Catholic Association of Bombay.  The preamble  tothe Constitution speaks of securing to the citizens of Indiafraternity  assuring the dignity of the individual  and	 theunity of the Nation.  Articles 25 to 30 have been framed  tosecure	this unity.  Art. 30 is in absolute terms  and	doesnot permit regulation or restriction of the rights conferredby it.	" Their choice " in Art. 30 cannot be controlled  bythe  State.   It has been the normal method of	running	 theminority institutions with aid and recognition.	 Implict  inArt.  30(1) is the right of a parent or guardian  to  impartsuch education this children as he likes.  Bombay  EducationSociety v. The State of Bombay, (56 Bom.  L. R. 643 at 653).It is the right of every person of the minority community toeducate	  his  children	 in  school  administered  by	thatcommunity. The State of Bombay v. Bombay Education  Society,[1955] 1 S. C. R. 568 at 586).	The word " administer shouldbe interpreted as in 69 L.    Ed.  1070 at 1076, 67  L.	 Ed.1042 at 1045 and 71 L.	 Ed.  646  at  647.   The   ordinarydictionary  meaning of administer is ' to manage' or  'carryon'.   The legislature cannot even indirectly  infringe	 thefundamental  rights.   Dwarkadas Shrinivas v.  The  SholapurSpinning and Weaving Co. Ltd., ( [1954] S.C.R. 674 at 683);1007Punjab Province v. Daulat Singh, ( 73 1. A. 59) ; The  Stateof  Bombay v. Bombay Education Society, ( [1955] 1 S. C.  R.568 at 583).  American Jurisprudence, Vol. 11, p. 724,	See.95.  The whole scheme of the Bill is to secularise educationand,  thus  it infringes the fundamental  rights  guaranteedunder  Art.  30.   Clause  3  of  the  Bill  which  requirespermission  to	be obtained to establish a  school,  cl.  10which empowers the Government to prescribe qualifications ofteachers  in  minority community schools and  cl.  26  whichmakes  it  obligatory on parents to send their	children  toGovernment or aided schools where compulsory education is inforce, all offend Art. 30.  Similarly cls. 6, 7, 8, 11,	 12,14, 15 and 28 are destructive of this fundamental right.Frank Anthony and P.  C. Aggarwala, for the All India Anglo-Indian	Association and for the Apostolic  Carmel  EducationSociety	 and  Roman Catholic Diocese.  Under Art.  143	thisCourt has the discretion to refuse to answer the  reference.In  Re Allocation of Lands and Buildings, ( [1943] F. C.  R.20  at	22).  The present reference is most  incomplete	 andwholly	unsatisfactory	and  the  Court	 should,   followingZafrullah  Khan	 J. in In re Levy of Estate Duty,  (  [1944]F.C.R.	317  at	 334,  335),  decline  to  answer  it.	 Thereference  is  incomplete as this Court has  been  asked  toexamine	 whether  certain  provisions  of  the	Bill  offendcertain	 specified fundamental rights though actually  thoseprovisions offend other fundamental rights also.  There	 areseveral	 important  provisions in the Bill, which  have	 notspecifically  been referred, which also	 offend	 fundamentalrights.	 Such a reference is unfair to the Court and  deadlyto  my	clients.  If this Court is in favour of	 giving	 itsopinion	 on  the  reference, the  scope	 thereof  should  beextended  to include all objections to the validity  of	 theprovisions  of	the  Bill,  and	 this  Court  has   inherentjurisdiction to do so.Anglo-Indian  schools  occupy a special	 position.   Article30(1)  gives to the Anglo-Indian community  the	 fundamentalright to establish educational institutions of their choice.These  fundamental  rights were not subject  to	 any  socialcontrol.  The object of the1281008Kerala Education Bill was to strike at the Christian Church,especially  the Catholics, to eliminate their  religion,  totake  away  their  property,  to  eliminate  all   educationagencies other than those of the State so that the State mayregiment education and indoctrinate children.The  Bill which sought to implement directive principles  ofState policy in Art. 45 by providing for free and compulsoryeducation  infringed Art. 30(1).  Directive principles	mustyield  to  fundamental rights.	The State of Madras  v.	 Sm.Champakam  Dorairajan,	([1951] S. C. R. 521 at	 531).	 TheState cannot compel minority educational institutions not tocharge	fees for primary classes.  This	 compulsion  coupledwith  the embargo imposed by the Bill on children  going  toschools	 not recognised by the Government  would  extinguishthe  choice  of	 the  minorities  guaranteed  by  Art.	 30.Recognition  was part of the right of the  minorities  underArt. 30.  Article 337 provides for special grants or aids toeducational institutions run by Anglo-Indians and the  Statecannot take that away or place conditions or restrictions onit.Clause	3(5) of the Bill infringes both Art. 30(1) and	Art.14.   It discriminates between existing schools which  couldcontinue to charge fees and primary classes and new  schoolswhich cannot charge such fees if they want to be recognised.The conditions imposed on the opening of new schools by	 theminorities  are	 such that they deprive them  of  the  rightunder Art. 30(1).Nur-ud-Din Ahmed, S. S. Shukla and P. C. Aggarwala, for	 theAll  -India  Jamiat-ul-ulema-e-Hind.   The  Bill  seeks	  toachieve nationalisation of educational institutions and thusto  deprive the minorities of their right to  establish	 andadminister schools of their own choice under Art. 30.	Thisright  includes the right of the minorities to	receive	 aidand also get Government recognition of their schools withoutany  restrictions.  The provisions of the Bill gives  powersto the State without laying down the basis and standards forthe exercise of that power.1009G.   C. Mathur and C. P. Lal for the state of U. P.  adoptedthe arguments of the Attorney-General for India.B.   K. B. Naidu, for the Kerala State Muslim League adoptedthe arguments of G. S. Pathak and Frank Anthony.D.N.  Pritt,  Sardar Bahadur and C. M.	Kuruvilla,  for	 theState of Kerala.  The questions referred to the Court by thePresident  arose  out of certain doubts entertained  by	 thePresident in respect of certain provisions of the Bill.	  Ifthe  President did not entertain certain other	doubts,	 theparties cannot insist that the President must have had thoseother  doubts  also.  The Court has no power  to  go  beyondthose  questions  which are raised in  the  reference.	 TheState  of  Kerala wants the Court to reply to all  the	fourquestions referred and it would abide by the view which	 theCourt will express on these questions.The  Kerala  Education	Bill  is  a  progressive  piece	  oflegislation which seeks to provide a better organisation anddevelopment of educational institutions in the State, and  avaried and comprehensive educational service throughout	 theState.	 It  seeks  to provide employment  to  about  70,000teachers  and  to give security to the teachers.   The	Billalso  seeks to implement the directive principles  of  Statepolicy	in  Art.  45 by providing for  free  and  compulsoryprimary education for all.The  Bill lays down a clear principle and policy, as  statedin  its objects, to provide for the better organisation	 anddevelopment of education.  This is further made clear by thepreamble   which   seeks  to  provide  for  a	varied	 andcomprehensive  educational  service  throughout	 the  State.Nationalisation	 which could have been easily  and  lawfullyachieved  was  not  the policy adopted by  the	State.	 Itspolicy	was  to maintain the three different  categories  ofschools,  the  Government  run schools,	 the  private  aidedschools	 and the private schools recognised by	the  Govern-ment.  The Court could not get a complete picture until	 therules were framed.  The framing of the1010rules had necessarily to be left to the Government.  'a SuchI delegated legislation' is an integral and inevitable	partof a modern State power.  Clause 3(5) of the Bill read	withcl. 36 does not violate Art. 14.  Jadunandan Yadav v. R.  P.Singh  (A.  I. R. 1958 Pat. 43 at 47); Biswambhar  Singh  v.The State of Orissa ([1954] S. C. R. 842); Pannalal  Binjrajv. Union of India, ( [1957] S. C. R. 233 at 248, 256,  262);Sardar Inder Singh v. The State of Rajasthan ( [1957] S.  C.R. 605).  The rules to be framed by the Government would  gofor  scrutiny before the same legislature which	 passed	 theBill  and  when	 passed by the legislature  the	 rules	willbecome	part  of  the Act.  This was  not  really  delegatedlegislation but legislation in two stages.In  order  to protect certain privileges of  minorities	 theState  cannot  discard the glorious principles of  free	 andcompulsory  education.	 The  rights  of  minorities  cannotdestroy the rights of citizens to universal free  education.If  the minorities want Government aid and  recognition	 fortheir  schools, they could be granted on the  general  termsand  conditions applicable to others.  The words I of  theirchoice'	 cannot be interpreted to mean the establishment  ofschools with the aid of the tax payer's money and also	withthe assurance of enough pupils to attend those schools.Christians  and	 Muslims  are  not  minorities	in   Kerala.Christians,   forming	the   second   largest	  community,constituted  one  fourth of the population,  while  Muslims,forming the third largest community, constituted one seventhof  the total population.  Minorities in the context of	 theeducational  rights guaranteed under the  Constitution	meanonly those sections of the population in particular areas ofa  State  who are in a minority, and not those	who  can  beregarded as minorities in the country as a whole.  The	onlyminority community in Kerala which can claim the benefit  ofArt. 30(1) are the Jews, who do not choose to have their owneducational institutions.Schools	 run  by  minorities in	 Kerala	 were  not  strictlyminority schools as envisaged by Art. 30(1) as they were notrun mainly for the children of the1011minority  community.  In most of these schools at  least  75per cent. of the students were from non-minorities.  Article30(1)  contemplates schools for the education of members  ofthe  minority  communities  only.   Right  of  the  minoritycommunities  to	 establish and	administer  institutions  oftheir  choice does not include the right to receive aid	 andrecognition   on  their	 own  terms.   Article	30(2)	onlyprohibited   the  State	 from  discriminating  against	 anyeducational  institution  on  the  ground  of  religion	  orlanguage.In order to attract the operation of Art. 30(1) it should beestablished that there is a minority community, that it	 hasestablished   an  educational  institution  and	  that	 theeducational  institution  is run for the  education  of	 themembers of that community.  Ramani Kanta Bose v. The GauhatiUniversity  (I.	 L. R. [1951] Ass. 348 at 352).	 Not one  ofthese  conditions  is fulfilled in any	of  the	 educationalinstitutions in the State.  The choice in Art. 30(1) lies inthe establishment of a school and not in its management.The provisions of the Bill relating to the establishment andrecognition of schools, restrictions on alienation of schoolproperty, appointment of managers, selection of teachers  bythe State Public Service Commission and the taking over	 themanagement  of	the  schools  in  public  interest  are	 allreasonable conditions imposed to ensure better	Organisationof  education  and  security of service	 conditions  to	 theteachers.The  category  of schools in respect of which the  power  ofacquisition can be exercised under cl. 15 of the Bill  comesunder  a classification which differentiates it	 from  thoseother  categories  which are  excluded	from  classificationbeing such as is calculated to further the purposes and	 thepolicy	underlying  the	 legislation.  Clause  15  does	 notinfringe Art. 14 at all.In enacting cl. 33 of the Bill the State Legislature did notintend, and must be presumed not to have intended, to affectthe operation of Art. 226 in any way.S.   Easwara  Iyer  and	 K. R.	Chaudhury,  for	 the  KeralaPrivate Secondary School Office Staff1012Association and Kerala Private Teachers' Federation, adoptedthe arguments of D. N. Pritt.				       Cur. adv. vult.1958.	May 22.	 The opinion of Das C. J., Bhagwati,  B.  P.Sinha,	Jafer  Imam,  S. K. Das and J.	L.  Kapur,  JJ.	 wasdelivered by Das C. J. Venkatarama AiyarJ.   delivered a separate opinion.DAS  C.	 J.-This reference has been made by  the   Presidentunder  Art.  143 (1) of the Constitution of  India  for	 theopinion	 of  this  Court  on certain  questions	 of  law  ofconsiderable  public importance that have arisen out  of  ortouching  certain provisions of the Kerala  Education  Bill,1957, hereinafter referred to as "the said Bill", which	 waspassed by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Kerala onSeptember 2, 1957, and was, under Art. 200, reserved by	 theGovernor  of Kerala for the consideration of the  President.After  reciting the fact of the passing of the said Bill  bythe  Legislative Assembly of Kerala and of  the	 reservationthereof	 by  its  Governor  for	 the  consideration  of	 thePresident  and after setting out some of the clauses of	 thesaid Bill and specifying the doubts that may be said to havearisen	out of or touching the said clauses,  the  Presidenthas  referred  to this Court certain  questions	 hereinaftermentioned  for consideration and report.  It is to be  notedthat the said Bill not having yet received the assent of thePresident  the doubts, leading up to this reference,  cannotobviously  be  said  to	 have  arisen  out  of	the   actualapplication of any specified section of an Act on the  factsof  any particular case and accordingly the  questions	thathave  been referred to this Court for its consideration	 arenecessarily  of an abstract or hypothetical nature  and	 arenot like specific issues raised in a particular case broughtbefore	a court by a party aggrieved by the operation  of  aparticular  law which he impugns.  Further,  this  referencehas  been characterised as incomplete and unsatisfactory  inthat, according to learned counsel appearing for some of theinstitutions   it  does	 not  clearly  bring  out  all	 theconstitutional1013defects attaching to the provisions of the Bill and  seriousapprehension has been expressed by learned counsel before usthat our opinion on these isolated' abstract or hypotheticalquestions  may very positively prejudice the  interests,  ifnot   completely   destroy  the	 very  existence,   of	 theinstitutions  they represent and, in the  circumstances,  wehave been asked not to entertain this reference or give	 anyadvisory opinion on the questions put to us.It  may	 be of advantage to advert, at the  outset,  to	 theambit and, scope of the jurisdiction to be exercised by thisCourt  under  Art.  143 of the Constitution.   There  is  noprovision similar to this in the Constitution of the  UnitedStates	of  America  or in  the	 Commonwealth  of  AustraliaConstitution Act, 1900 (63 and 64 Vic.	Ch. 12) and, accord-ingly, the American Supreme Court as well as the High  Courtof  Australia, holding that the jurisdiction and  powers  ofthe  court  extend only to the decision	 of  concrete  casescoming before it, have declined to give advisory opinions tothe  executive or legislative branches of the State.   Unders. 60 of the Canadian Supreme Court Act, 1906, the Governor-General-in-Council  may	 refer important  questions  of	 lawconcerning  certain  matters to the Supreme  Court  and	 theSupreme	 Court appears to have been held bound to  entertainthe   reference	 and  answer  the  questions  put   to	 it.Nevertheless, the Privy Council has pointed out the  dangersof  such advisory opinion and has, upon	 general  principlesdeprecated such references.  Said the Earl of Halsbury L. C.in  Attorney General for Ontario v. Hamilton Street  Railway(1):-"  They would be worthless as being speculative opinions  onhypothetical questions.	 It would be contrary to  principle,inconvenient, and inexpedient that opinions should be  givenup  on	such questions at all.	When they arise,  they	mustarise  in concrete cases, involving private rights;  and  itwould  be  extremely  unwise for any  judicial	Tribunal  toattempt beforehand to exhaust all possible cases and facts(1)  [1903] A. C. 524, 529.1014which  might  occur to qualify, cut down, and  override	 theoperation of the particular words when the concrete case  isnot before it."To  the like effect are the observations of Lord Haldane  inAttorney  General for British Columbia v.  Attorney  Generalfor Canada (1) :-"........Under this procedure questions may be put of a kindwhich  it is impossible to answer satisfactorily.  Not	onlymay  the question of future litigants be prejudiced  by	 thecourt laying down principles in an abstract form without anyreference  or relation to actual facts, but it may turn	 outto   be	 practically  impossible  to  define   a   principleadequately and safely without previous ascertainment of	 theexact facts to which it is to be applied."Reference may, with advantage, be also made to the followingobservations of Lord Sankey I,.	 C. in In Re The  Regulationand Control of Aeronautics In Canada (2) :-"......	 It is undesirable that the Court should  be  calledupon  to  express opinions which may affect  the  rights  ofpersons	 not  represented before it or touching	 matters  ofsuch  a nature that its answers must be	 wholly	 ineffectualwith regard to parties who are not and who cannot be broughtbefore it-for example, foreign Government."Section	 4  of	the Judicial Committee Act, 1833  (3  and  4William	 IV, Ch. 41) provides that " It shall be lawful	 forHis  Majesty  to refer to the said  Judicial  Committee	 forhearing and consideration any such other matters  whatsoeveras  His	 Majesty shall think fit and  such  Committee  shallthereupon  hear and consider the same and shall	 advise	 HisMajesty thereon in manner aforesaid." It is to be noted thatit is made obligatory for the Judicial Committee to hear andconsider  the  matter and advise His Majesty  thereon.	 TheGovernment of India Act, 1935, by s. 213(1), authorised	 theGovernor-General  to  consult the Federal Court, if  at	 anytime  it  appeared to the Governor-General  that  there	 hadarisen or was likely to arise a question of(1) [1914] A. C. 153, 162.(2) [1932] A. C. 54, 66.1015law which was of such a nature and of such public importancethat  it was expedient to obtain the opinion of the  FederalCourt  upon it and empowered that court, after such  hearingas  they  thought  fit, to report  to  the  Governor-Generalthereon.  This provision has since been reproduced word	 forword, except as to the name of the court, in cl. (1) of	 Art143  of	 our Constitution.  That Article has a	new  clause,being cl. (2) which empowers the President,  notwithstandinganything  in the proviso to Art. 131, to refer a dispute  ofthe  kind mentioned in the said clause to the Supreme  Courtfor opinion and the Supreme Court shall, after such  hearingas  it	thinks	fit, report to	the  President	its  opinionthereon.  It is worthy of note that, while under cl. (2)  itis obligatory on this Court to entertain a reference and  toreport to the President its opinion thereon, this Court has,under  cl.  (1),  a discretion in the matter and  may  in  aproper	case  and for good reasons decline  to	express	 anyopinion	 on the questions submitted to it.  In view  of	 thelanguage  used	in s. 213(1), on which Art.  143(1)  of	 ourConstitution  is based, and having regard to the  differencein the language employed in cls. (1) and (2) of our Art. 143just  alluded to, the scope of a reference made	 under	Art.143(1) is obviously different from that of a reference unders.  4 of the Judicial Committee Act, 1833 and s. 60  of	 theCanadian Supreme Court Act, 1906, and this Court, under Art.143(1), has a discretion in the matter and consequently	 theobservations of their Lordships of the Privy Council  quotedabove are quite apposite and have to be borne in mind.There  have been all told four references by  the  Governor-General	 under	s. 213(1) of the Government  of	 India	Act,1935,  and in two of them some of the Judges of the  FederalCourt have made observations on the ambit and scope of	sucha  reference.	Thus  in  In  re  Allocation  of  Lands	 andBuildings (1), Gwyer C. J. said :-" On considering the papers submitted with the case we	feltsome doubt whether any useful purpose(I) [1943] F. C. R. 20, 22,1291016would be served by the giving of an opinion under s. 213  ofthe  Act.   The	 terms of that section	do  not	 'impose  anobligation  on	the  Court,  though  we	 should	 always	  beunwilling to decline to accept a Reference, except for	goodreason;	 and two difficulties presented themselves.   First,it  seemed that questions of title might sooner or later  beinvolved,  if the Government whose contentions found  favourwith  the  Court desired, as the papers show  might  be	 thecase, to dispose of some of the lands in question to privateindividuals,  and plainly no advisory Opinion under  s.	 213would furnish a good root of title such as might spring froma  declaration of this Court in proceedings taken  under  s.204(1) of the Act by one Government against the other."In  In re Levy of Estate Duty (1) Spens C. J. said at  p.320of the authorised report :-"  It may be stated at the outset that when  Parliament	 hasthought	 fit to enact s. 213 of the Constitution Act  it  isnot  in	 our  judgment	for  the  Court	 to  insist  on	 theinexpediency  (according to a certain school of thought)  ofthe  advisory jurisdiction.  Nor does it assist to say	thatthe  opinions  expressed  by  the  Court  on  the  questionsreferred " will have no more effect than the opinions of thelaw  officers ": Attorney-General for Ontario  v.  Attorney-General for Canada (2).	 That is the necessary result of thejurisdiction being advisory."Referring  to  the objection that the questions	 related  tocontemplated   legislation  and	 not  to  the  validity	  oroperation  of  a measure already passed, the  learned  ChiefJustice observed at p. 321 :-"  The	fact that the questions referred  relate  to  futurelegislation  cannot  by	 itself	 be  regarded  as  a   validobjection.   Section  213 empowers the	Governor-General  tomake  a	 reference  when questions of law are  "  likely  toarise...................................................  Inthis  class  of	 cases, the reference should,  in  the	verynature of things, be made before the legislation has been(1)  [1944] F. C. R. 3I7, 320, 321, 350).(2)  [1912] A. C. 57I, 589.		     1017introduced  and	 the objection based upon  the	hypotheticalcharacter  of  the questions can have no  force.   We.	may,however,  add that instances were brought to our' notice  inwhich  references  had	been made  under  the  correspondingprovision in the Canadian Supreme Court Act when the  matterwas at the stage of a Bill."Zafrulla Khan J. declined to entertain the reference and  toanswer the questions on high authority quoted and  discussedelaborately  in	 his separate opinion.	The  learned  Judge,after  pointing out in the earlier part of his opinion	thatit  was	 "  a  jurisdiction the exercise  of  which  on	 alloccasions  must	 be  a matter of  delicacy  and	 caution  ",concluded  his	opinion with the following  observations  atpage 350:-" In the state of the material made available to us I do notthink any useful purpose would be served by my attempting toframe	answers	 to  the  questions  referred.	 Indeed,   Iapprehend, that any such attempt might result in the opiniondelivered  being made the foundation of	 endless  litigationhereafter,  apart altogether from any question	relating  tothe vires of the proposed law, and operating to the  seriousprejudice  of  persons whom it might be attempted  to  bringwithin	the  mischief  of that law.  It is  bound  to  raiseghosts far more troublesome than any that it might serve  tolay.   For  these  reasons I am	 compelled  respectfully  todecline to express any opinion on the questions referred."The  present reference is the second of its kind under	Art.143(1)	of the Constitution, the first one  being  concernedwith  the  In Re Delhi Laws Act, 1912 (1).  The	 nature	 andscope  of the reference under Art. 143(1) was not  discussedin the In Re Delhi Laws Act case (1), but, we conceive, thatthe  principles laid down by the Judicial Committee and	 theFederal	  Court quoted above will serve as a valuable  guideindicating the line of approach to be adopted by this  Courtin  dealing with and disposing of the reference	 now  beforeus.  The principles established by judicial(1)  [1951] S.C.R. 747.1018decisions  clearly  indicate  that the	complaint  that	 thequestions  referred to us relate to the validity, not  of  astatute	 brought into force but, of a Bill which has yet  tobe  passed  into  law by being accorded the  assent  of	 thePresident  is  not a good ground for  not  entertaining	 thereference  for,	 as  said by Spens C. J.  Art.	143(1)	doescontemplate  the  reference of a question of law that  is  "likely	to  arise  ". It is  contended	that  several  otherconstitutional	objections  also arise out of  some  of	 theprovisions  of	the Bill considered in the  light  of  otherprovisions of the Constitution, e.g., Art. 19(1)(g) and Art.337  and that as those objections have not been included  inthe reference this Court should not entertain an  incompletereference,  for	 answers given to the questions put  may  bemisleading in the absence of answers to other questions thatarise.	 In  the  first place it is  for  the  President  todetermine  what questions should be referred and if he	doesnot  entertain any serious doubt on the other provisions  itis  not for any party to say that doubts arise also  out  ofthem and we cannot go beyond the reference and discuss thoseproblems.   The	 circumstance  that the	 President  has	 notthought	  fit	to   refer  other  questions   as   to	 theconstitutional	validity of some of the clauses of the	saidBill  on the ground that they infringe other  provisions  ofthe  Constitution  cannot  be a good or	 cogent	 reason	 fordeclining  to  entertain  this	reference  and	answer	 thequestions  touching matters over or in respect of which	 thePresident does entertain some doubt.In  order  to  appreciate  the	true  meaning,	import	 andimplications of the provisions of the Bill which are said tohave  given  rise to doubts, it will be necessary  to  referfirst  to certain provisions of the Constitution  which	 mayhave  a bearing upon the questions under  consideration	 andthen  to the actual provisions of the Bill.   The  inspiringand nobly expressed preamble to our Constitution records thesolemn	resolve of the people of India to  constitute  Indiainto  a	 SOVEREIGN DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC	and,  amongst  otherthings, to secure to all its citizens JUSTICE, LIBERTY,	 andEQUALITY and to promote among1019them all FRATERNIT Y assuring the dignity of the  individualand  the  unity of the Nation.	One of	the  most  cherishedobjects of our Constitution is, thus, to' secure to all	 itscitizens  the liberty of thought, expression, belief,  faithand  worship.  Nothing provokes and stimulates	thought	 andexpression  in people more than education.  It is  educationthat clarifies our belief and faith and helps to  strengthenour  spirit  of	 worship.  To implement	 and  fortify  thesesupreme purposes set forth in the preamble, Part III of	 ourConstitution has provided for us certain fundamental rights.Article 14, which is one of the articles referred to in	 twoof  the	 questions, guarantees to every person,	 citizen  orotherwise, equal protection of the laws within the territoryof  India.  Article 16 ensures equality of  opportunity	 forall   citizens	 in  matters  relating	to   employment	  orappointment  to	 any office under the State.   In  order  toavail themselves of the benefit of this Article all citizenswill presumably have to have equal opportunity for acquiringthe qualifications, educational or otherwise, necessary	 forsuch employment or appointment.	 Article 19(1) guarantees tocitizens the right, amongst others, to freedom of speech andexpression (sub-cl. (a)) and to practise any profession,  orto carry on any occupation, trade or business (sub-cl. (g)).These  rights  are,  however,  subject	to  social   controlpermitted by cls. (2) and (6) of Art. 19.  Under Art. 25 allpersons	 are  equally  entitled, subject  to  public  order,morality and health and to the other provisions of Part III,to  freedom of conscience and the right freely	to  profess,practise  and  propagate religion.  Article 26	confers	 thefundamental  right  to every religious denomination  or	 anysection	 thereof,  subject  to public  order,  morality	 andhealth, to establish and maintain institutions for religiousand  charitable	 purposes,  to manage  its  own	 affairs  inmatters	 of religion, to acquire property and to  administersuch  property in accordance with law.	The ideal  being  toconstitute  India,  into  a  secular  State,  no   religiousinstruction  is,  under Art. 28(1), to be  provided  in	 anyeducational institution wholly maintained out of State fundsand under cl. (3) of the1020same Article no person attending any educational institutionrecognised by the State or receiving aid out of State  fundsis to be required to take part in any religious	 instructionthat  may be imparted in such institution or to	 attend	 anyreligious worship that may be conducted in such	 institutionor  in any premises attached thereto unless such person	 or,if  such  person  is a minor, his  guardian  has  given	 hisconsent	 thereto.  Article 29(1) confers on any	 section  ofthe  citizens having a distinct language, script or  cultureof its own to have the right of conserving the same.  Clause(2) of that Article provides that no citizen shall be deniedadmission into any educational institution maintained by theState or receiving aid out of State funds on grounds only ofreligion, race, caste, language or any of them.	 Article 30,cl. (1) of which is the subject-matter of question 2 of thisreference, runs as follows:-"  30(1)  All  minorities,  whether  based  on	religion  orlanguage,  shall have the right to establish and  administereducational institutions of their choice.(2)  The  State	 shall not, in granting aid  to	 educationalinstitutions,	 discriminate	against	  any	 educationalinstitution on the ground that it is under the management ofa minority, whether based on religion or language.  "While  our fundamental rights are guaranteed by Part III  ofthe  Constitution,  Part IV of it, on the other	 hand,	laysdown  certain  directive principles of	State  policy.	 Theprovisions contained in that Part are not enforceable by anycourt,	 but   the  principles	therein	  laid	 down	are,nevertheless,  fundamental in the governance of the  countryand  it	 shall	be  the duty of the  State  to	apply  theseprinciples in making laws.  Article 39 enjoins the State  todirect	its policy towards securing, amongst  other  things,that the citizens, men and women, equally, have the right toan  adequate means of livelihood.  Article 41  requires	 theState, within the limits of its economic capacity and  deve-lopment, to make effective provision for securing the right,inter alia, to education.  Under Art. 45 the State1021must endeavour to provide, within a period of ten years fromthe   commencement  of	the  Constitution,  for	  free	 andcompulsory  education for all children until  they  completethe age of fourteen years.  Article 46 requires the State topromote	 with  special	care  the  education  and   economicinterests  of  the weaker sections of the  people,  and,  inparticular,  of	 the  Scheduled	 Castes	 and  the  ScheduledTribes,	 and to protect them from social injustice  and	 allforms of exploitation.Part  XVI  of our Constitution also  makes  certain  specialprovisions  relating  to  certain classes.   Thus  Art.	 330provides  for the reservation of seats for Scheduled  Castesand  Scheduled Tribes in the House of the  People.   Article331  provides  for the representation  of  the	Anglo-Indiancommunity  in  the House of the	 People.   Reservations	 aremade,  by Arts. 332 and 333, for the representation for	 theScheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and the  Anglo-Indiansin  the	 Legislative Assembly of every State for  ten  yearsafter which, according to Art. 334, these special provisionsare  to cease.	Special provision is also made by  Art.	 336for the Anglo-Indian community in the matter of	 appointmentto  certain services.  Article 337 has an important  bearingon  the	 question before us.  It provides  that	 during	 thefirst  three financial years after the commencement of	thisConstitution, the same grants, if any, shall be made by	 theUnion and by each State for the benefit of the	Anglo-Indiancommunity  in  respect	of education as were  made  in	the,financial year ending on the thirty first day of March, 1948and that during every succeeding period of three years	thisgrant  may  be	less by ten per cent.  than  those  for	 theimmediately  preceding period of three years, provided	thatat  the	 end  of  ten years from  the  commencement  of	 theConstitution such grants, to the extent to which they are  aspecial concessions shall cease.  The second proviso to thatArticle,  however, provides that no educational	 institutionshall  be entitled to receive any grant under  this  Articleunless	at  least forty per cent. of the  annual  admissionstherein	 are made available to members of communities  otherthan the Anglo-Indian community.  This is1022clearly	 a condition imposed by the Constitution  itself  onthe right of the Anglo-Indian community to receive the grantprovided  under this Article.  Article 366(2) defines  an  "Anglo-Indian ".Presumably to implement the directive principles alluded  toabove  the Kerala Legislative Assembly has passed  the	saidBill in exercise of the legislative power conferred upon  itby Arts. 245 and 246 of the Constitution read with entry  IIof  List  11 in the Seventh Schedule  to  the  Constitution.This  legislative power is, however, to be  exercised  underArt. 245 "     subject to the provisons of this Constitution".  Therefore,	although  this	legislation  may  have	beenundertaken  by	the  State of Kerala  in  discharge  of	 theobligation  imposed  on	 it  by	 the  directive	  principlesenshrined   in	Part  IV  of  the  Constitution,  it   must,nevertheless,  subserve	 and not over-ride  the	 fundamentalrights conferred by the provisions of the Articles containedin  Part III of the Constitution and referred to above.	  Asexplained  by  this  Court in the State of  Madras  v.	Smt.Champakam  Dorairajan (1) and reiterated recently  in  Mohd.Hanif  Quareshi	 v. The State of Bihar (2) "  The  directiveprinciples  of	State policy have to conform to and  run  assubsidiary to the Chapter on Fundamental Rights ". Neverthe-less, in determining the scope and ambit of the	 fundamentalrights	relied on by or on behalf of any person or body	 thecourt may not entirely ignore these directive principles  ofState  policy laid down in Part IV of the  Constitution	 butshould	adopt the principle of harmonious  construction	 andshould	attempt to give effect to both as much as  possible.Keeping	 in  view  the	principles  of	construction   abovereferred to we now proceed to examine the provisions of	 thesaid Bill in order to get a clear conspectus of it.The long title of the said Bill describes it as " A Bill  toprovide	 for  the better Organisation  and  'development  ofeducational institutions in the State." Its preamble recitesthus: " Whereas it is deemed necessary to pro-(1)  [1951] S.C.R. 525, 53I.(2)  [1959] S.C.R. 629.1023vide   for  the	 better	 Organisation  and  development	  ofeducational institutions in the State providing a varied andcomprehensive educational service throughout the State."  Wemust, therefore, approach the substantive provisions of	 thesaid  Bill in the light of the policy and purpose  deduciblefrom the terms of the aforesaid long title and the  preambleand  so	 construe  the	clauses of the	said  Bill  as	willsubserve the said policy and purpose.  Sub-clause (3) of cl.I provides that the Bill shall come into force on such	dateas  the	 Government  may, by notification  in  the  Gazette,appoint	 and different dates may be appointed for  differentprovisions  of	this Bill-a fact which is said	to  indicatethat  Government  will study the situation  and	 bring	intoforce  such  of the provisions of the said Bill	 which	willbest  subserve	the  real needs of  its	 people.   Clause  2contains definitions of certain terms used in the said	Billof which the following sub-clauses may be noted:-"  (1)	"  aided school " means a private  school  which  isrecognised by and is receiving aid from the Government;(3)  "	existing  school " means any  aided,  recognised  orGovernment  school  established before the  commencement  ofthis Act and continuing as such at such commencement;(6) " private school " means an aided or recognised school;(7)  " recognised " means a private school recognised by theGovernment under this ActClause	3  deals  with " Establishment	and  recognition  ofschools.   "  Sub-clause (1) empowers the  Government  to  "regulate  the  primary	and other stages  of  education	 andcourses	 of instructions in Government and private  schools."  Sub-clause  (2) requires the Government to "	 take,	fromtime  to time, such steps as they may consider necessary  orexpedient,  for	 the  purpose of  providing  facilities	 forgeneral education, special education1301024and  for the training of teachers." Sub-clause (3)  providesthat "the Government may, for the purpose of providing	suchfacilities:-(a)	 establish  and	 maintain  schools;  or	 (b)permit	any  person  or body of	 persons  to  establish	 andmaintain  aided	 schools;  or (c) to  recognise	 any  schoolestablished  and  maintained  by  any  person  or  body	  ofpersons." All existing schools, which by the definition meanany  aided,  recognised or  Government	schools	 establishedbefore	and continuing at the commencement of the Bill	are,by  sub-cl.  (4) to be deemed to have  been  established  inaccordance  with this Bill.  The proviso to  sub-clause	 (4)gives an option to the educational agency of an aided schoolexisting  at  the commencement of that clause, at  any	timewithin one month of such commencement after giving notice tothe Government of its intention so to do, to opt to run	 theschool as a recognised school subject to certain  conditionstherein mentioned.  Sub-clause (5) of cl. 3, which forms, inpart, the subject matter of two of the questions referred toruns as follows:-"   3	(5)  After  the	 commencement  of  this	  Act,	 theestablishment  of  a new school or the opening of  a  higherclass  in  any	private	 school	 shall	be  subject  to	 theprovisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder and anyschool or higher class established or opened otherwise	thanin accordance with such provisions shall not be entitled  tobe recognised by the Government."Clause	4  of the Bill provides for the	 constitution  of  aState  Education Advisory Board consisting of officials	 andnon-officials as therein mentioned, their term of office andtheir duties.  The purpose of the setting up of such a Boardis   that  it  should  advise  the  Government	on   matterspertaining  to educational policy and administration of	 theDepartment  of Education.  Clause 5 requires the manager  ofevery aided school on the first day of April of each year tofurnish	 to the authorised officer of the Government a	listof  properties, moveable and immoveable, of the	 school.   Adefault	 in furnishing such list entails, under sub-cl.	 (2)of  that clause, the withholding of the	 maintenance  grant.Clause 6 imposes restrictions on the alienation of any1025property  of  an  aided school,	 except	 with  the  previouspermission  ill	 writing of the authorised  officer  of	 theGovernment.  An appeal is provided against the order of	 theauthorised  officer  refusing or  granting  such  permissionunder  sub-cl. (1).  Sub-clause (3) renders any	 transactionin contravention of sub-cl. (1) or sub-el. (2) null and voidand on such contravention the Government, under sub-cl. (4),is authorised to withhold any grant to the school.  Clause 7deals  with  managers  of  aided  schools.   Sub-clause	 (1)authorises any Education agency to appoint any person to  bea manager of an aided school, subject to the approval of theauthorised  officer,  all  the existing	 managers  of  aidedschools	 being deemed to have been appointed under the	saidBill.	The manager is made responsible for the	 conduct  ofthe  school in accordance with the provisions of  this	Billand  the rules thereunder.  Subclause (4) makes it the	dutyof  the manager to maintain such record and accounts of	 theschool and in such manner as may be prescribed by the rules.The  manager  is,  by sub-cl. (5), required  to	 afford	 allnecessary  and reasonable assistance and facilities for	 theinspection of the school and its records and accounts by theauthorised  officer.  Sub-clause (6) forbids the manager  toclose  down  any  school without giving	 to  the  authorisedofficer one year's notice expiring with the 31st May of	 anyyear  of  his intention so to do.  Sub-clause  (7)  providesthat,	in  the	 event	of  the	 school	 being	 closed	  ordiscontinued or its recognition being withdrawn, the managershall  make over to the authorised officer all	the  recordsand  accounts  of the school.  Sub-clause (8)  provides	 forpenalty for the contravention of the provisions of  sub-cls.(6) and (7).  Clause 8 provides for the recovery of  amountsdue from the manager of an aided school as an arrear of landrevenue.  Sub-clause (3) of cl. 8, which is also referred toin one of the questions, runs as follows:-"  8 (3) All fees and other dues, other than  special  fees,collected  from	 the students in an aided school  after	 thecommencement of this section shall, notwithstanding anythingcontained in any agreement, scheme1026or  arrangement,  be  made over to the	Government  in	suchmanner as may be prescribed."Clause	9 makes it obligatory on the Government to  pay	 thesalary	of all teachers in aided schools direct	 or  throughthe  headmaster of the school and also to pay the salary  ofthe non-teaching staff of the aided schools.  It gives powerto  the Government to prescribe the number of persons to  beappointed   in	the  non-teaching  establishment  of   aidedschools, their salaries, qualifications and other conditionsof  service.   The Government is authorised,  under  sub-cl.(3), to pay to the manager a maintenance grant at such ratesas  may be prescribed and under sub-cl. (4) to	make  grantsin-aid	for  the purchase, improvement and  repairs  of	 anyland,  building or equipment of an aided school.  Clause  10requires  Government to prescribe the qualifications  to  bepossessed   by	persons	 for  appointment  as  teachers	  inGovernment  schools  and in private schools  which,  by	 thedefinition,  means aided or recognised schools.	  The  StatePublic Service Commission is empowered to select  candidatesfor appointment as teachers in Government and aided  schoolsaccording  to the procedure laid- down in cl.  11.   Shortlyput, the procedure is that before the 31st May of each	yearthe Public Service Commission shall select for each districtseparately candidates with due regard to the probable numberof vacancies of teachers that may arise in the course of theyear,  that  the  list of candidates so	 selected  shall  bepublished in the Gazette and that the manager shall  appointteachers  of  aided  schools only  from	 the  candidates  so,selected  for the district in which the school	 is  locatedsubject to the proviso that the manager may, for  sufficientreason,	 with  the  permission of  the	Commission,  appointteachers  selected for any other district.   Appointment  ofteachers in Government schools are also to be made from	 thelist  of candidates so published.  In  selecting  candidatesthe  Commission is to have regard to the provisions made  bythe Government under cl. (4) of Art. 16 of the Constitution,that  is  to  say, give representation	in  the	 educationalservice	 to  persons belonging to the  Scheduled  Castes  orTribes1027-a  provision which has been severely criticised by  learnedcounsel	  appearing   for  the	 Anglo-Indian	and   Muslimcommunities.  Clause 12 prescribes the conditions of serviceof  the	 teachers  of aided schools  obviously	intended  toafford	some  security of tenure to the	 teachers  of  aidedschools.   It provides that the scales of pay applicable  tothe  teachers of Government schools shall apply to  all	 theteachers of aided schools whether appointed before or  afterthe  commencement of this clause.  Rules applicable  to	 theteachers  of  the Government schools are also  to  apply  tocertain	 teachers of aided schools as mentioned	 in  sub-cl.(2).   Sub-clause (4) provides that no teacher of ail  aidedschool	shall  be  dismissed, removed, reduced	in  rank  orsuspended  by the manager without the previous	sanction  ofthe authorised officer.	 Other conditions of service of	 theteacher	 of aided schools are to be as prescribed by  rules.Clause 14 is of considerable importance in that it provides,by sub-clause (1), that the Government, whenever it  appearsto it that the manager of any aided school has neglected  toperform	 any of the duties imposed by or under the  Bill  orthe  rules made thereunder, and that in the public  interestit  is	necessary so to do, may, after giving  a  reasonableopportunity  to	 the manager of the Educational	 agency	 forshowing	 cause	against the proposed action, take  over	 themanagement for a period not exceeding five years.  In  casesof  emergency  the Government may, under sub-el.  (2),	takeover the management after the publication of notification tothat effect in the Gazette without giving any notice to	 theEducational agency or the manager.  Where any school is thustaken over without any notice the Educational agency or	 themanager	 may, within three months of the publication of	 thenotification, apply to the Government for the restoration ofthe  school showing the cause therefor.	 The  Government  isauthorised  to	make  orders  which  may  be  necessary	  orexpedient  in  connection  with	 the  taking  over  of	 themanagement  of	an  aided school.   Under  sub-el.  (5)	 theGovernment  is	to  pay	 such rent as  maybe  fixed  by	 theCollector in respect of the properties taken possession	 of,On taking over any1028school the Government is authorised to run it affording	 anyspecial	 educational facilities which the school  was  doingimmediately before such taking over.  Right of appeal to theDistrict  Court	 is  provided  against	the  order  of	 theCollector fixing the rent.  Sub-cl. (8) makes it lawful	 forthe  Government to acquire the school taken over under	thisclause	if the Government is satisfied that it is  necessaryso to do in the public interest, in which case	compensationshall be payable in accordance with the principles laid downin  cl.	 15 for payment of compensation.   Clause  15  givespower to the Government to acquire any category of  schools.This  power  can  be exercised only  if	 the  Government  issatisfied  that for standardising general education  in	 theState or for improving the level of literacy in any area  orfor   more  effectively	 managing  the	 aided	 educationalinstitutions  in any area or for bringing education  of	 anycategory  under	 their direct control and if in	 the  publicinterest  it  is necessary so to do.   No  notification	 fortaking	over any school is to be issued unless the  proposalfor  the  taking over is supported by a	 resolution  of	 theLegislative Assembly.  Provision is made for the  assessmentand apportionment of compensation and an appeal is  providedto the District Court from the order passed by the Collectordetermining the amount of compensation and its apportionmentamongst	 the  persons  entitled	 thereto.   Thus  the	Billcontemplates and provides for two methods of acquisition  ofaided  schools,	 namely,  under sub-cl. (8) of	el.  14	 theGovernment   may  acquire  a  school  after   having   takenpossession  of	it under the preceding	sub-clauses  or	 theGovernment may, under el. 15, acquire any category of  aidedschools	 in  any  specified  area for  any  of	the  severalspecific purposes mentioned in that clause.  Clause 16 givespower to the Government to exempt immoveable properties frombeing  taken over or acquired.	Clause 17 provides  for	 theestablishment	of   Local  Education	Authorities,   theirconstitution and term of office and clause 18 specifies	 thefunctions  of the Local Education Authorities.	 Clauses  19and 20 are important and read as follows:-1029"  19.	 Recognised schools:-The provisions  of	 subsections(2),  (4),  (5), (6), (7), (8) and (9) of  section  7  shallapply  to recognised schools to the same extent' and in	 thesame manner as they apply to aided schools."" 20.  No fee to be charged from pupils of primary classes:-No fee shall be payable by any pupil for any tuition in	 theprimary classes in any Government or private school."Part  II  of  the Bill deals with the  topic  of  compulsoryeducation.  That part applies to the areas specified in	 el.21.  Clause 23 provides for free and compulsory education ofchildren  throughout the State within a period of ten  yearsand  is intended obviously to discharge the obligation	laidon the State by Art. 45 of the directive principles of Statepolicy.	  Clauses  24 and 25 deal with the  constitution  ofLocal Education Committees and the functions thereof  Clause26,  which has figured largely in the discussion  before  usruns as follows :" 26.  Obligation on guardian to send children to school:-Inany  area of compulsion, the guardian of every child  shall,if such guardian ordinarily resides in such area, cause suchchild  to attend a Government, or private school and once  achild has been so caused to attend school under this Act thechild  shall  be compelled to complete the  full  course  ofprimary education or the child shall be compelled to  attendschool till it reaches the age of fourteen."We  may	 skip  over  a few clauses,  not  material  for	 ourpurpose, until we come to el. 33 which is referred to in oneof   the  questions  we	 have  to  consider.   That   clauseprovides--"  33.	 Courts	 not  to  grant	  injunction-Notwithstandinganything contained in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908,  orin any other law for the time being in force, no court shallgrant  any  temporary injunction or make any  interim  orderrestraining  any proceedings which is being or about  to  betaken under this Act."Clause 36 confers power on the Government to make1030rules for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisionsof  the	 Bill  and  in particular for  the  purpose  of	 theestablishment  and  maintenance of schools,  the  giving  ofgrants and aid to private schools, the grant of	 recognitionto private schools, the levy and collection of fees in aidedschools, regulating the rates of fees in recognised schools,the  manner  in which the accounts,  registers	and  recordsshall  be  maintained, submission of  returns,	reports	 andaccounts by managers, the standards of education and  courseof study and other matters specified in sub-cl. (2) of	thatclause.	 Clause 37 is as follows:-" 37.  Rules to be laid before the Legislative Assembly:-Allrules  made under this Act shall be laid for not  less	thanfourteen  days	before the Legislative Assembly as  soon  aspossible  after they are made and shall be subject  to	suchmodifications  as the Legislative Assembly may	make  duringthe session in which they are so laid."Under cl. 38 none of the provisions of the Bill applies to aschool which is not a Government or a private school, i. e.,aided or recognized school.The  above summary will, it is hoped, clearly bring out	 thepurpose and scope of the provisions of the said Bill.  It isintended  to  serve as showing that the said  Bill  containsmany provisions imposing considerable State control over themanagement  of	the educational institutions in	 the  State,aided  or  recognised.	The provisions, in so  far  as	theyaffect the aided institutions, are much more stringent	thanthose  which  apply only to  recognised	 institutions.	 Thewidth  of the power of control thus sought to be assumed  bythe  State  evidently  appeared	 to  the  President  to	  becalculated to raise doubts as to the constitutional validityof  some  of the clauses of the said Bill on the  ground  ofapprehended  infringement of some of the fundamental  rightsguaranteed to the minority communities by the  Constitution,and  accordingly in exercise of the powers vested in him  byArt.  143(1) the President has referred to this	 Court,	 forconsideration and report the following questions:1031"  (1)	Does  sub-clause  (5) of  clause  3  of	 the  KeralaEducation  Bill, read with clause 36 thereof or any  of	 theprovisions of the said sub-clause, offend article 14 of	 theConstitution in any particulars or to any extent?(2)  Do sub-clause (5) of clause 3, sub-clause (3) of clause8  and clauses 9 to 13 of the Kerala Education Bill, or	 anyprovisions  thereof, offend clause (1) of article 30 of	 theConstitution in any particulars or to any extent ?(3)  Does  clause  15 of the Kerala Education Bill,  or	 anyprovisions thereof, offend article 14 of the Constitution inany particulars or to any extent ?(4)  Does  clause  33 of the Kerala Education Bill,  or	 anyprovisions  thereof, offend article 226 of the	Constitutionin any particulars or to any extent ?"On  receipt  of the reference this Court issued	 notices  topersons and institutions who appeared to it to be interestedin  the	 matter calling upon them to file  their  respectivestatements of case concerning the above mentioned questions.Three  more  institutions were subsequently,  on  their	 ownapplications,  granted leave to appear at the hearing.	 TheUnion of India, the State of Kerala and all the said personsand  institutions have filed their respective statements  ofcase  and have appeared before us by counsel and taken	partin  the debate.	 A body called the Crusaders' League his  bypost sent its views but has not appeared at the hearing.  Wehave had the advantage of hearing very full arguments on thepoints	arising	 out  of the questions	and  we	 are  deeplyindebted  to learned counsel appearing for the	parties	 forthe very great assistance they have rendered to us.It will be necessary, at this stage, to clear the ground  bydisposing of a point as to the scope and ambit of  questionsI  and	2.  It will be noticed	that  both  these  questionschallenge the constitutional validity, inter alia, of clause3  (5)	of the said Bill which has already  been  quoted  inextensor  The  argument	 advanced by  the  learned  AttorneyGeneral	 and other learned counsel appearing for  bodies  orinstitutions challeng-1311032ing  the validity of the said Bill is that the provision  ofcl.  3(5),  namely, that the establishment of a	 new  school"shall	be  subject to the provisions of this  Act  and	 therules  made thereunder " attracts all other clauses  of	 thesaid  Bill  as if they are set out seriatim in	sub-el.	 (5)itself.	  Therefore,  when questions I and 2  challenge	 theconstitutional validity of el. 3(5) they, in effect, call inquestion the validity of all other clauses of the said Bill.Learned counsel appearing for the State of Kerala,  however,opposes	 this line of argument on several grounds.  In'	 thefirst  place, he contends that cl. 3(5) attracts only  thoseprovisions of this Bill which relate Lo the establishment ofa  new school. When asked to specify what provisions of	 thesaid  Bill  relate  to I he establishment of  a	 new  schoolwhich, according to him, are attracted by cl. 3(5), the onlyprovision that he refers to is sub-cl. (3) of cl. 3. Learnedcounsel	 for  the State of Kerala maintains  that  el.	3(5)attracts only el. 3(3) and the rules that may be made  underel.  36(2)(a)  and  no other clause of the  said  Bill	and,therefore,  no other clause is included within the scope  ofthe  questions	unless,	 of course,  they  are	specificallymentioned  in the questions, as some of the clauses are,  infact,  specifically mentioned in question 2. If the  mentionof  cl. 3(5) in those questions, ipso  facto, attracted	 allother  clauses of the said Bill, why, asks learned  counsel,were other clauses specifically mentioned in, say,  question2  ?  Learned counsel also contends that after a  school  isestablished  the other clauses will proprio vigore apply  tothat  school  and  there was no	 necessity  for	 an  expressprovision  that a newly established school would be  subjectto  the other provisions of the Bill.  As the other  clausesof the Bill will apply to all schools established after	 theBill becomes an Act without the aid of cl. 3(5), a referenceto  that clause in the questions cannot bring  within  theirambit  any  clause of the Bill which is not  separately	 andspecifically  mentioned in the questions.   Finally  learnedcounsel	 contends that -even if cl. 3(5) attracts the  otherprovisions of the Bill, it does not necessarily follow	thatthe  other  provisions also form the subject matter  of	 thequestions.  In our judgement,1033neither	 of  the  two extreme, positions  can  be  seriouslymaintained.The contentions advanced by learned counsel for the State ofKerala	appear to us to be open to several  criticisms.	  Ifthe  intention of sub-cl. (5) of cl. 3 was to  attract	onlythose  provisions  of  the Bill which related  only  to	 theestablishment  of a new school and if sub-cl. (3) of  cl.  3was the only provision in that be-half, apart from the rulesto  be	framed	under  el. 36(2)(a), then  as  a  matter  ofintelligible drafting it would have been more appropriate tosay, in siib-cl. (3) of el. 3, that the establishment of newschools ",,;hall be subject to the provisions of this clauseand  the rules to be made under el. 36(2)(a) ". Clause	3(5)is  quite  clearly concerned with the establishment  of	 newschools	 Government, aided or recognised schools,  and	saysthat  after  the Bill becomes law all new  schools  will  besubject to the other provisions of the Bill.  So far as	 newGovernment   schools  are  concerned,  el.  3(5)   certainlyattracts  el.  3(3)(a), for that  provision  authorises	 theGovernment  to	establish new schools; but to say  that	 el.3(5)  only  attracts el. 3(3) appears to be  untenable,	 forthat   sub-clause  does	 not  in  terms	 provide   for	 theestablishment  of  new	aided  or  recognised  schools.	  Asalready observed, el. 3(3)(a) specifically provides for	 theestablishment	and  maintenance  of  new  schools  by	 theGovernment  only.   Clause  3(3)(b) provides  only  for	 thegiving	of permission by the Government to a person or	bodyof   persons  to  establish  and  maintain  aided   schools.Likewise  el.  3(3)(c)	authorises the	Government  only  torecognise  any	school established, and	 maintained  by	 anyperson or body of persons.  Clause 3(4) introduces a fictionwhereby	 all  existing	schools,  which	 mean  all  existingGovernment, aided or recognised schools, shall be deemed  tohave  been established in accordance with this	Bill.	Thencomes  cl.  3(5) which is couched in very  wide	 terms.	  Itsays,  inter  alia,  that  after  the  commencement  of	 theoperation of the said Bill the establishment of new  schoolsshould	be subject to the other provisions of the  Bill	 andthe rules made thereunder.  The rules to be framed under cl.36(2)(a), (b) &1034(c)  appear  to be respectively correlated to  cl.  3(3)(a),(b)  & (c).  Bearing in mind the provisions of cl. 38  whichplaces all schools other than Government and private, i. e.,aided  or  recognised schools, outside the  purview  of	 theBill, the establishment of what sort of new schools, we ask,does  sub-cl.  (5) contemplate and  authorise  ?   Obviouslyaided  or  recognised  schools established  after  the	Billbecomes	 law.	Clause 3(5), like cl. 3(3),  has  apparentlybeen very inartistically drawn, but reading the clause as  awhole  and particularly the concluding part of	it,  namely,that  any school 'established otherwise than  in  accordancewith such provisions shall not be entitled to be  recognisedby  the	 Government,  there can be no doubt  that  cl.	3(5)itself contemplates and authorises the establishment of	 newschools as aided or recognised schools.	 The opening of	 newschools	 and  the securing of aid or  recognition  from	 theGovernment  constitute	the  establishment  of	new  schoolscontemplated  by el. 3(5) read with cl. 3(3).	Reading	 el.3(5)  in the context of its setting, we have no	 doubt	thatits purpose is not merely to authorise the establishment  ofnew  schools  but  to subject the new  schools	to  all	 theprovisions  of the said Bill and the rules made	 thereunder.To  accept the restrictive argument that el.  3(5)  attractsonly  el. 3(3) will be putting a too narrow construction  onsub-cl. (5) not warranted by the wide language thereof or bythe  language  of cl. 3(3).  We do not think that  there  ismuch  force  in the argument that it was  not  necessary  toexpressly   provide  for  the  application  of	 the   otherprovisions  to new schools to be established after the	Billbecame law and that the other clauses of the said Bill wouldby their own force and without the aid of sub-cl. (5)  applyto  such  newly established schools, for having,  in  terms,expressly  made	 the  new  schools  subject  to	 the   otherprovisions it is not open to the State of Kerala now to	 saythat sub-el. (5) need not have made the other provisions  ofthe  said Bill applicable to new schools  established  afterthe  said  Bill	 comes into operation or that  it  does	 notattract the other. clauses although it expressly purports todo  or that it is not open to those who oppose the  Bill  torefer1035to  any other clause in support of their case.	If el.	3(5)did   not  expressly  attract  the  other  provisions,	 thePresident   would   perhaps  have   framed   the   questionsdifferently.If,  therefore, it be held, as we are inclined to  do,	thatcl.  3(5)  makes  the  new  schools  subject  to  the  otherprovisions of the said Bill, what will be the position ? If,as  submitted  by  the	learned	 AttorneyGeneral  and  othercounsel supporting him, some of the clauses of the said Billimpinge	 upon the fundamental rights of the members  of	 theminority  community or educational institutions	 establishedor  to	be established by them and if el. 3(5)	makes  thoseclauses	 applicable  to the new schools they  may  establishafter  the  Bill becomes law, then not only do	those  otherclauses	 violate their rights but el. 3(5) which openly	 andexpressly  makes  those	 other clauses	apply  to  such	 newschools	   must	   also	  encounter   the    challenge	  ofunconstitutionality.	In   other  words,   the   vice	  ofunconstitutionality,  if  any, of those other  clauses	mustattach	to cl. 3(5) because it is the latter which in  termsmakes  the  new	 schools  subject  to  those   objectionableclauses.  Therefore, in a discussion on the validity of	 el.3(5) it becomes germane to discuss the validity of the otherclauses. In short, though the validity of the other  clausesis  not by itself and independently, the  subject-matter  ofeither	of those questions, yet their validity or  otherwisehas  to	 be  taken into	 consideration	in  determining	 theconstitutional	validity  of  el.  3(5)	 which	makes  thoseclauses applicable to the newly established schools.  It  isin  this sense that, we think, a discussion of the  validityof the other clauses comes within the purview of questions Iand  2. We do not, in the circumstances, consider it  right,in  view  of  the language employed in	this  el.  3(5),  toexclude the consideration of the constitutional validity  ofthe  other  clauses  of	 the Bill  from	 the  discussion  onquestions  I  and  2  which  challenge	the   constitutionalvalidity  of  el.  3(5) of the said Bill.   Indeed,  in	 theargument before us frequent references have been made to theother clauses of the said Bill in discussing questions I and2 and we have heard the respective contentions of learned1036counsel on the validity or otherwise of those clauses in  sofar as they have a bearing on the questions put co us  whichwe now proceed to consider and answer.Re.    Questions  1  and  3.  Question	I   challenges	 theconstitutional validity of sub-cl. (5) of el. 3 of the -saidBill  read with el. 36 thereof on the ground that, the	sameviolates  the equal protection of the laws guaranted to	 allpersons by Art. 14 of the Constitution.	 Question 3  attacksel. 15 of the said Bill on the same ground, namely, that  itis violative of Art. 14 of the Constitution.  As the  groundof attack tinder both the questions is the same, it will  beconvenient to deal with them together.The  true  meaning,  scope  and effect of  Art.	 14  of	 ourConstitution have been the subject-matter of discussion	 anddecision  by this Court in a number of cases beginning	withthe  case of Chiranjit Lal Chowdhuri v. The Union  of  Indiaand  others (1).  In Budhan Choudhry v. The State  of  Bihar(2)  a	Constitution  Bench of seven Judges  of	 this  Courtexplained  the	true  meaning and  scope  of  that  Article.Recently  in the case of Ram Krishna Dalmia and others	 SriJustice	 S. R. Tendolkar (3), the position was at length  bythis  Court,  by its judgment  on March 28,  1958,  and	 theseveral	 principles firmly established by the  decisions  ofthis  Court  were set out seriatim in  that  judgment.	 Theposition  -",as	 again summarised in the still	more  recentcase of land. Hanif Quaeshi v. The State of Bihar (1) in thefollowing words:-"  The	meaning, scope and effect of Art. 14, which  is	 theequal  protection  clause  in  our  Constitution,  has	beenexplained  by this Court in a series of decisions  in  casesbegining with Chiranjit Lal Chowdhury v. The Union Of  India(1) and ending with the recent case of Ram Krishna Dalmia v.Sri Justice S. R. Tendolkar (1).  It is now well-establishedthat  while  Art. 14 forbids class legislation it  does	 notforbid	 reasonable  classification  for  the  purposes	  oflegislation(1)  [1950] S. C. E. 869.(2)  [1955] 1 S. C. R. I045.(3)  [1959] S.C.R. 279.(4)  [1959] S.C.R. 6,g.1037and  that in order to pass the test of	permissible  classi-fication  two conditions must be fulfilled, namely, (i)	 theclassification	 must	be  founded   on   an	intelligibledifferentia which distinguishes persons or things that,	 aregrouped together from others left out of the group and	(ii)such differentia must have a rational relation to the objectsought	to  be	achieved by the statute	 in  question.	 Theclassification,	 it  has  been	held,  may  be	founded	  ondifferent  bases,  namely,  geographical  or  according	  toobjects or the occupations or the like and what is necessaryis  that  there	 must  be  a  nexus  between  the  basis  ofclassification	 and   the   object  of	  the	Act   tinderconsideration  .  The pronouncements of this  Court  furtherestablish,  amongst  other things, that there  is  always  apresumption  in	 favour	 of  the  constitutionality  of	  anenactment  and that the burden is upon him, who attacks	 it,to  show  that,	 there has been a  clear  violation  of	 theconstitutional principles.  The courts, it is accepted, mustpresume that, the legislature understands and correctly	 theneeds  of  its	own people, that its laws  are	directed  toproblems   made	  manifest  by	experience  and	  that	 itsdiscriminations	 are based on adequate grounds.	 It must  beborne  in  mind that the legislature is	 free  to  recognisedegrees	 of harm and may confine its restrictions  to  thosecases  where  the  need is deemed to  be  the  clearest	 andfinally	 that  in  order  to  sustain  the  presumption	  ofconstitutionality  the	Court may  take	 into  considerationmatters	 of common knowledge, matters of common report,	 thehistory	 of  the times and may assume every state  of  factswhich can be conceived existing at the time of legislation."In  the judgment of this Court in Ram Krishna Dalmia's	case(1) the statutes that came up for consideration before	thisCourt  were  classified	 into  five  several  categories  asenumerated therein.  No useful purpose will be served by re-opening the discussion and, indeed, no attempt has been madein, that behalf by learned counsel.  We, therefore,  proceedto  examine  the  impugned provisions in the  light  of	 theaforesaid principles enunciated by this Court.Coming now to the main argument founded on(1)  [1959] S.C.R. 279.1038Art.  14,  the	Bill, it is said,  represents  a  deliberateattempt	 on the part of the party now in power in Kerala  tostrike	at the Christian Church and especially that  of	 theCatholic  persuasion, to eliminate religion, to	 expropriatethe minority communities of the properties of their  schoolsestablished  for  the purpose of conserving  their  distinctlanguage, script and culture, and in short, to eliminate alleducational  agencies  other than the State so as  to  bringabout  a regimentation of education and by and	through	 theeducational  institutions to propagate the tenets  of  theirpolitical  philosophy  and indoctrinate	 the  impressionableminds  of the rising generation.  It is unfortunate  that  acertain	 amount	 of heat and passion was introduced  in	 thediscussion  of what should be viewed as a purely  legal	 andconstitutional problem raised by the questions ; but perhapsit is understandable in the context of the bitter  agitationand  excitement	 provoked by the said Bill in the  minds  ofcertain	 sections  of the people of the State.	 We  desire,however, to emphasise that this Court is not concerned	withthe merit or otherwise of the policy of the Government whichhas  sponsored this measure and that all that we are  calledupon  to  do  is to  examine  the  constitutional  questionsreferred to us and to pronounce our opinion on the  validityor  otherwise  of  those provisions of the  Bill  which	 mayproperly come within the purview of those questions.The  doubts which led to the formulation of question  1	 arethus  recited in the order of reference which had better  bestated in its own terms:-"  AND WHEREAS sub-clause (3) of clause 3 of the  said	Billenables	 the Government of Kerala, inter alia, to  recogniseany school established and maintained by any person or	bodyof  persons for the purpose of providing the facilities	 setout in subclause (2) of the said clause, to wit,  facilitiesfor general education, special education and for the  train-ing of teachers;AND  WHEREAS  sub-clause (5) of clause 3 of  the  said	Billprovides, inter alia, that any new school established or anyhigher class opened in any private1039school,	 after	the Bill has become an Act and the  Act	 hascome  into  force,  otherwise than in  accordance  with	 theprovisions  of the Act and the rules made under	 section  36thereof,  shall	 not  be entitled to be	 recognised  by	 theGovernment of Kerala;AND WHEREAS a doubt has arisen whether the provisions of thesaid sub-clause (5) of clause 3 of the said Bill confer uponthe   Government  an  unguided	power  in  regard   to	 therecognition of new schools and the opening of higher classesin any private school which is capable of being exercised inan arbitrary and discriminatory manner;AND WHEREAS a doubt has further arisen whether such power ofrecognition of new schools and of higher classes in  privateschools	 is  not  capable of being  exercised  in  a  manneraffecting  the right of the minorities guaranteed by  clause(1)  of	 article  30 of the Constitution  to  establish	 andadminister educational institutions of their choice;Likewise the doubts concerning cl. 15 are formulated in	 thefollowing recitals in the order of reference :-"  AND	WHEREAS	 clause 15 of the  said	 Bill  empowers	 theGovernment  of Kerala to take over, by notification  in	 theGazette, any category of aided schools in any specified areaor  areas,  if	they are satisfied  that  for  standardisinggeneral	 education in the State of Kerala or  for  improvingthe  level of literacy in any area or for  more	 effectivelymanaging the aid-Id educational institutions in any area  orfor  bringing education of any category under  their  directcontrol it is necessary to do so in the public interest,  onpayment of compensation on the basis of market value of	 theschools so taken over after deducting therefrom the  amountsof aids or grants given by that Government for	requisition,construction or improvement of the property of the schools;AND  WHEREAS  a doubt has arisen whether such power  is	 notcapable	  of   being   exercised   in	an   arbitrary	 anddiscriminatory manner."1321040The  legal  aspect  of the matter arising  out	of  the	 twoquestions  is  further elaborated thus	by  learned  counselappearing  for	the persons or institutions  contesting	 thevalidity of the Bill: Clause 3 (5) makes all the  provisionsof   the  Bill	applicable  to	new  schools  that  may	  beestablished after the Bill becomes law.	 Clause 3 (5)  givesthe  Government	 an unguided, uncontrolled  and	 uncanalisedpower which is capable of being exercised "with an evil	 eyeand an unequal hand" and the Government may, at its whim  orpleasure,  single out any person or institution and  subjecthim or it to hostile and discriminatory treatment.  The Billdoes  not lay down any policy or principle for the  guidanceof the Government in the matter of the exercise of the	widepowers	so conferred on it by the different clauses  of	 theBill.	It is pointed out that cl. 3 does not lay  down	 anypolicy or principle upon which the Government may or may notpermit	any  person  or body of	 persons  to  establish	 andmaintain  an aided school or grant recognition to  a  schoolestablished  by any person.  The Government may	 grant	suchpermission or recognition to persons who support its  policybut  not to others who oppose the same.	 Clause 6 does	riotsay  in	 what circumstances the authorised  officer  of	 theGovernment may or may not give permission to the  alienationof the property of an aided school.  He may give  permissionin  one case but arbitrarily withhold it in another  similarcase.  Likewise the authorised officer may not, under el. 7,approve of the appointment of a particular person as managerof  in aided school for no better reason than the  prejudiceor  dislike of his Government for that	particular  person'spolitical views or affiliations.  The Government may,  undercl. 9, pay the maintenance grant to the manager of one aidedschool	but not to that of another.  Particular	 schools  orcategories of schools in particular areas may be singled outfor  discriminatory  treatment under cls. 14 and 15  of	 theBill.  It is next pointed out that if cl. 3 (5) is read withcls.  21, 26 and 28 of the Bill the result will be  palpablydiscriminatory	because in an area which is not an  area  ofcompulsion  a new school which may be established after	 theBill1041comes  into operation and which may not seek recognition  oraid  can  charge  fees and yet attract scholars	 but  a	 newschool	similarly established in an area of compulsion	willbe hit directly by cl. 26 and will have no scholars, for  noguardian will be able lawfully to send his ward to a  schoolwhich  is neither a Government school nor a  private  schooland  such a new school will not be able to function at	all,for it will have no scholar and the question of its chargingfees in any class will not arise.  There is no force in thislast  mentioned point, for the Legislature, it must  be	 re-membered,  knows the needs of its people and is entitled  toconfine its restriction 'to those places where the needs aredeemed	to be the clearest and, therefore, the	restrictionsimposed in areas of compulsion are quite permissible on	 theground	of classification on geographical  basis.   Whateverother  provisions of the Constitution, such restriction	 mayor  may	 not  violate, which will  be  discussed  later,  itcertainly does not infringe Art. 14.A further possibility of discrimination is said to arise  asa  result of the application of the same provisions  of	 theBill  to all schools which are not similarly  situate.	 Theargument is thus developed: The Constitution, it is  pointedout,   deals  with  the	 schools  established  by   minoritycommunities  in a way different from the way it	 deals	withother  schools.	 Thus Anglo-Indian schools are given  grantsunder Art. 337 of the Constitution and educational  institu-tions  started	by all minority	 communities  including	 theAnglo-Indians  are  protected  by  Arts.  29  and  30.	 Theeducational   institutions  of	the  minorities	  are	thusdifferent  from the educational institutions established  bythe majority communities who require no special privilege orprotection  and	 yet the Bill purports to put  in  the	sameclass  all educational institutions although they  have	 notthe   same  characteristics  and  place	 equal	burdens	  onunequals.   This  indiscriminate  application  of  the	sameprovisions   to	 different  institutions  having   differentcharacteristics	 and  being unequal brings about  a  seriousdiscrimination	violative of the equal protection clause  ofthe Constitution.  In1042support of this argument reliance is placed on the  decisionof  the	 American Supreme Court in Cumber'land Coal  Co.  v.Board of Revision (1).	That decision, in our judgment,	 hasno  application to the facts of the case before	 us.   Therethe taxing authorities assessed the owners of coal lands  inthe  city  of Cumberland by applying a flat rate of  50	 percent.  not on the actual value of the properties but  on  anartificial valuation of $ 260 per acre arbitrarily  assignedto  all	 coal  lands  in  the  city  irrespective  of  theirlocation.  It was not disputed that the value of  propertieswhich were near the river-banks or close to the railways wasvery much more than that of properties situate far away fromthe  river-banks or the railways.  The artificial  valuationof  $  260 per acre was much below the actual value  of	 theproperties which were near the river-banks or the  railways,whereas	 the value of the properties situate far away,	fromthe  riverbank	or the railways was about the same  as	tileassigned  value.  'The result of applying the equal rate  oftax, namely, 50 per cent. on the assigned value was that theowners of more valuable properties had to pay much less thanwhat they would have been liable to pay upon the real  valueof  those properties.  Therefore, the method  of  assessmentworked	out  clearly to the disadvantage of  the  owners  ofproperties situate in the remoter parts of the city and	 wasobviously  discriminatory.  There the discrimination was  anintegral  part	of  that mode of taxing.  That	is  not	 theposition  here,	 for  there  is	 no  discrimination  in	 theprovisions  of the said Bill and consequently the  principleof that decision can have no application to this case.	Thisdoes  not, however, conclude the matter and we have  yet  todeal with the main argument that the Bill does not lay	downany  policy or principle for the guidance of the  Governmentin the exercise of the wide powers vested in it by the Bill.Reference  has already been made to the long title  and	 thepreamble  of  the Bill.	 That the policy and  purpose  of  agiven  measure	may be deduced from the long title  and	 thepreamble thereof has been recognised(1)  (1931) 284 U. S. 23; 76 L. Ed.  I46,150.1043in many decisions of this Court and as and by way of'  readyreference we may mention our decision in Biswambar Singh  v.The  State  of	Orissa (1) as an instances  in	point.	 Thegeneral	 policy	 of the Bill as laid down in its  title	 andelaborated  in the preamble is " to provide for	 the  betterOrganisation  and  development of  educational	institutionsproviding  a  varied and comprehensive	educational  servicethroughout the State." Each and every one of the clauses  inthe Bill has to be interpreted and read in the light of thispolicy.	  When, therefore, any particular clause leaves	 anydiscretion  to the Government to take any action it must  beunderstood  that such discretion is to be exercised for	 thepurpose	 of  advancing and in aid of  implementing  and	 notimpeding this policy.  It is, therefore, not correct to	 saythat no policy or principle has at all been laid down by theBill  to  guide the exercise of the discretion left  to	 theGovernment  by	the clauses in this Bill.  The	matter	doesnot, however, rest there.  The general policy deducible fromthe  long  title  and  preamble	 of  the  Bill	is   furtherreinforced  by	more  definite.	 statements  of	 policy	  indifferent  clauses  thereof.  Thus the power vested  in	 theGovernment  under cl. 3(2) can be exercised only "  for	 thepurpose	 of  providing	facilities  for	 general  education,special education and for the training of teachers ". It  is"  for the purpose of providing such facilities "  that	 thethree  several powers under heads (a), (b) and (c)  of	thatsub-clause have been conferred on the Government.  The clearimplication  of	 these provisions read in the light  of	 thepolicy	deducible  from the long title and the	preamble  isthat in the matter of granting permission or recognition theGovernment  must be guided by the consideration whether	 thegiving of such permission or recognition will enure for	 thebetter	 Organisation	and   development   of	 educationalinstitutions  in the State, whether it will  facilitate	 theimparting of general or special education or the training ofteachers and if it does then permission or recognition	mustbe  granted  but  it  must be refused  if  it  impedes	thatpurpose.  It is true that the(1)  [1954] S. C. R. 842, 855.1044word " may " has been used in sub-el. (3), but, according tothe  well  known rule of construction of statutes,  'if	 theexistence  of the purpose is established and the  conditionsof  the	 exercise  of  the  discretion	are  fulfilled,	 theGovernment  will  be  under an obligation  to  exercise	 itsdiscretion in furtherance of such purpose and no question ofthe  arbitrary	exercise of discretion can  arise.  [CompareJulius v. Lord Bishop of Oxford (1) ]. If in actual fact anydiscrimination	 is  made  by  the  Government	 then	suchdiscrimination	will  be  in violation	of  the	 policy	 andprinciple deducible from the said Bill itself and the  courtwill then strike down not the provisions of the Bill but thediscriminatory act of the Government.  Passing on to cl. 14,we  find that the power conferred thereby on the  Governmentis to be exercised only if it appears to the Government thatthe manager of any aided school has neglected to perform theduties imposed on him and that the exercise of the power  isnecessary  in public interest.	Here again the principle  isindicated  and	no  arbitrary or  unguided  power  has	beendelegated to the Government.  Likewise the power, under el..15(1)  can be exercised only if the Government is  satisfiedthat  it  is necessary to exercise it  for  "  standardisinggeneral education in the State or for improving the level ofliteracy  in any area or for more effectively  managing	 theaided  educational institutions in any area or for  bringingthe  education of any category under their direct control  "and  above all the exercise of the power is necessary  "  inthe public interest ". Whether the purposes are good or	 badis a question of State policy with the merit of which we arenot  concerned in the present discussion.  All that  we	 arenow  endeavouring  to  point out is that  the  clause  underconsideration does lay down a policy for the guidance of theGovernment  in the matter of the exercise of the  very	widepower  conferred on it by that clause.	The exercise of	 thepower is also controlled by the proviso that no notificationunder  that sub-clause shall be issued unless  the  proposalfor  the  taking over is supported by a	 resolution  of	 theLegislative Assembly-a proviso(1)  (1880) 5 App.  Cas. 214.1045which  clearly indicates that the power cannot be  exercisedby the Government at its whim or pleasure.  Skipping over  afew  clauses,  we come to cl. 36.  The' power given  to	 theGovernment by cl. 36 to make rules is expressly stated to beexercised  "  for the purpose of carrying  into	 effect	 theprovisions  of this Act ". In other words, the rules  to  beframed	must implement the policy and purpose laid  down  inits  long title and the preamble and the provisions  of	 theother  clauses of the said Bill.  Further, under el. 37	 therules  have to be laid for not less than 14 days before	 theLegislative Assembly as soon as possible after they are madeand  are  to  be  subject  to  such  modifications  as	 theLegislative  Assembly may make during the session  in  whichthey  are  so  laid.  After the rules are  laid	 before	 theLegislative  Assembly they may be altered or amended and  itis then that the rules, as amended become effective.  If  noamendments are made the rules come into operation after	 theperiod	of 14 days expires.  Even in this latter  event	 therules  owe  their  efficacy  to	 the  tacit  assent  of	 theLegislative Assembly itself.  Learned counsel appearing	 forthe  State of Kerala submitted in picturesque language	thathere  was what could be properly said to be  legislation  attwo  stages  and  the  measure	that  will  finally   emergeconsisting  of	the  Bill  and the  rules  with	 or  withoutamendment  will	 represent  the	 voice	of  the	 LegislativeAssembly  itself and, therefore, it cannot be said  that  anunguided  and  uncontrolled power of  legislation  has	beenimproperly   delegated	to  the	 Government.	Whether	  inapproving the rules laid before it the Legislative  Assemblyacts  as the Legislature of Kerala or acts as the  delegateeof  the	 Legislature  which  consists  of  the	 LegislativeAssembly and the Governor is, in the absence of the standingorders	and  rules  of business of  the	 Kerala	 LegislativeAssembly, more than we can determine.  But all that we	needsay is that apart from laying down a policy for the guidanceof  the Government in the matter of the exercise  of  powersconferred  on it under the different provisions of the	Billincluding cl. 36, the Kerala Legislature has, by cl. 15	 andel. 37 provided further safeguards.  In this1046connection  we must bear in mind what has been laid down  bythis  Court  in	 more  decisions  than	one,  namely,	thatdiscretionary  power  is not  necessarily  a  discriminatorypower  and the abuse of power by the Government will not  belightly assumed.  For reasons stated above it appears to  usthat  the  charge  of  unconstitutionality  of	the  severalclauses	 which	come  within the  two  questions  now  underconsideration  founded on Art. 14 cannot be sustained.	 Theposition  is  made  even clearer  whether  we  consider	 thequestion  of the validity of el. 15(1) for, apart  from	 thepolicy	and principle deducible from the long title and	 thepreamble  of the Bill and from that sub-clause	itself,	 theproviso	 thereto clearly indicates that the Legislature	 hasnot  abdicated its function and that while it has  conferredon  the Government a very wide power for the acquisition  ofcategories  of	schools it has not only provided  that	suchpower  can  only  be exercised	for  the  specific  purposesmentioned  in the clause itself but has also kept a  furtherand  more effective control over the exercise of the  power,by requiring that it is to be exercised only if a resolutionis  passed  by	the  Legislative  Assembly  authorising	 theGovernment  to do so.  The Bill, in our opinion,  comes	 notwithin category (iii) mentioned in Ram Krishna Dalmia's case(1)  as contended by Shri G. S. Pathak but  within  category(iv)  and  if  the  Government	applies	 the  provisions  inviolation of the policy and principle laid down in the	Billthe  executive action will come under category (v)  but	 notthe  Bill and that action will have to be struck down.	 Theresult,	 therefore, is that the charge of invalidity of	 theseveral	 clauses of the Bill which fall within the ambit  ofquestions I and 3 on the ground of the infraction of Art. 14must stand repelled and our answers to both the questions  Iand 3 must, therefore, be in the negative.Re.  Question 2 : Articles 29 and 30 are set out in Part IIIof our Constitution which guarantees our fundamental rights.They are grouped together under the sub-head " Cultural	 andEducational  Rights  ". The text and the marginal  notes  ofboth the Articles show that their purpose is to confer thosefundamental(1)  [1959] S.C.R. 279.1047rights	 on  certain  sections	of  the,   community   whichconstitute  minority communities.  Under cl. (1) of Art.  29any  section  of the citizens residing in the  territory  ofIndia or any part thereof having a distinct language, scriptor  culture of its own has the right to conserve  the  same.It  is	obvious that a minority	 community  can	 effectivelyconserve  its  language, script or culture  by	and  througheducational  institutions  and,	 therefore,  the  right	  toestablish  and	maintain  educational  institutions  of	 itschoice	is a necessary concomitant to the right to  conserveits distinctive language, script or culture and that is whatis conferred on all minorities by Art. 30(1) which has here-in  before  been quoted in full.  This	right,	however,  issubject, to el. 2 of Art. 29 which provides that no  citizenshall  be denied admission into any educational	 institutionmaintained by the State or receiving aid out of State  fundson grounds only of religion, race, caste, language or any ofthem.As  soon  as we reach Art. 30 (1) learned  counsel  for	 theState  of  Kerala  at once poses the  question:	 what  is  aminority  ?  That  is a term which is  not  defined  in	 theConstitution.	It is easy to say that a minority  communitymeans  a  community which is numerically less  than  50	 percent, but then the question is not fully answered, for	partof the question has yet to be answered, namely,50 per  cent.of what ? Is it 50 percent of the entire population of Indiaor 50 per cent. of the population of a State forming a	partof the Union ? The position taken up by the State of  Keralain its statement of case filed herein is as follows:"There is yet another aspect of the question that falls	 forconsideration,	namely as to what is a minority	 under	Art.30(1) The state		 contends that Christians, a certainsection	 of whom is vociferous in its objection to the	Billon  the allegation that it offends Art. 30(1), are not in  aminority in the State.	It is no doubt true that  Christiansare  not a mathematical majority in the whole  State.	Theyconstitute  about one-fourth of the population; but it	doesnot  follow therefrom that they form a minority	 within	 themeaning of Art. 30 (1).1331048The  argument  that  they  do,	if  pushed  to	its  logicalconclusion,  would  mean  that any  section  of	 the  peopleforming	 under fifty per cent. of the population  should  beclassified as a minority and be dealt with as such.Christians  form  the  second largest  community  in  KeralaState;	they form, however, a majority community in  certainarea of the State.  Muslims form the third largest communityin  the	 State, about one-seventh of the  total	 population.They  also, however, form the majority community in  certainother  areas  of the State. (In (1951) 3 Assam 384,  it	 washeld that persons who are alleged to be a minority must be aminority  in the particular region in which the	 institutioninvolved is situated)."The  State of Kerala, therefore, contends that in  order  toconstitute a minority which may claim the fundamental rightsguaranteed  to minorities by Art. 29 (1) and 30 (1)  personsmust  numerically be a minority in the particular region  inwhich  the  educational	 institution in question  is  or  isintended  to be situate.  A little reflection will  at	onceshow  that  this is not a satisfactory test.  Where  is	 theline to be drawn and which is the unit which will have to betaken  ?  Are we to take as our unit a district, or  a	sub-division  or  a	 taluk	or  a  town  or	 its  suburbs  or  amunicipality  or its wards ? It is well known that  in	manytowns  persons	belonging to a	particular  community  flocktogether  in  a	 suburb	 of  the  town	or  a  ward  of	 themunicipality.	Thus Anglo-Indians or Christians or  Muslimsmay  congregate	 in one particular suburb of a town  or	 oneparticular  ward  of  a municipality and they may  be  in  amajority  there.   According  to  the  argument	 of  learnedcounsel	 for  the  State  of  Kerala  the  Anglo-Indians  orChristians  or	Muslims of that locality, taken as  a  unit,will  not  be  a  " minority " within  the  meaning  of	 theArticles  under	 consideration and will not,  therefore,  beentitled to establish and maintain educational	institutionsof their choice in that locality, but if some of the membersbelonging to the Anglo-Indian or Christian community  happento reside in another suburb of the same town or another wardof the same municipality1049and  their number be less than that of the members of  othercommunities residing there, then those members of the Anglo-Indian or Christian community will be a minority within	 themeaning of Arts. 29 and 30 and will be entitled to establishand  maintain  educational institutions of their  choice  inthat   locality.    Likewise  the  Tamilians   residing	  inKarolbagh,  if they happen to be larger in number  than	 themembers of other communities residing in Karolbagh, will notbe  entitled to establish and maintain a Tamilian school  inKarolbagh, whereas the Tamilians residing in, say, Daryaganjwhere they may be le-,is numerous than the members of  othercommunities  residing  in Daryaganj will be  a	minority  orsection within the meaning of Arts. 29 and 30.	Again Biharilabourers  residing  in	 the industrial	 areas	in  or	nearCalcutta  where	 they may be the majority in  that  localitywill  not be entitled to have the minority rights and  thoseBiharis will have no educational institution of their choiceimparting education in Hindi, although they are	 numericallya  minority  if we take the entire city of Calcutta  or	 theState of West Bengal as a unit.	 Likewise Bengolis  residingin a particular ward in a town in Bihar where they may	formthe  majority  will  not  be  entitled	to  conserve   theirlanguage,  script  or  culture	by  imparting  education  inBengali.   These are, no doubt, extreme	 illustrations,	 butthey serve to bring out the fallacy inherent in the argumenton this part of the case advanced by learned counsel for theState  of Kerala.  Reference has been made to Art. 350-A  insupport of the argument that a local authority may be  takenas a unit.  The illustrations given above will apply to thatcase also.  Further such a construction will necessitate theaddition  of the words " within their jurisdiction  "  afterthe  words " minority groups ". The last sentence,  of	thatArticle	 also appears to run counter to such  argument.	  Weneed  not,  however, on this occasion go  further  into	 thematter	and  enter  upon a discussion and  express  a  finalopinion as to whether education being a State subject  beingitem  11  of  List  11	of  the	 Seventh  Schedule  to	 theConstitution  subject only to the provisions of entries	 62,63, 64 and 66 of List I and1050entry 25 of List III, the existence of a minority  communityshould in all circumstances and for purposes of all laws  ofthat  State be determined on the basis of the population  ofthe  whole State or whether it should be determined  on	 theState basis only when the validity of a law extending to thewhole  State  is  in  question	or  whether  it	 should	  bedetermined  on the basis of the population of  a  particularlocality  when	the law under attack applies  only  to	thatlocality,  for the -Bill before us extends to the  whole  ofthe  State of Kerala and consequently the minority  must  bedetermined  by	reference to the entire population  of	thatState.	 By this test Christians, Muslims and  Anglo-Indianswill certainly be minorities in the State of Kerala.  It  isadmitted that out of the total population of 1,42,00,000  inKerala	there  are only 34,00,000 Christians  and  25,00,000Muslims.   The	Anglo-Indians in the  State  of	 Travancore-Cochin	before	the re Organisation of the  States  numberedonly  11,990  according	 to the 1951 Census.   We  may	alsoemphasise  that	 question 2 itself proceeds on	the  footingthat there are minorities in Kerala who are entitled to	 therights conferred by Art. 30 (1) and, strictly speaking,	 foranswering  question  2	we need not enquire  as	 to  what  aminority community means or how it is to be ascertained.We  now	 pass  on to the main  point  canvassed	 before	 us,namely, what are the scope and ambit of the right  conferredby  Art.  30  (1).  Before coming to  grips  with  the	mainargument on this part of the case, we may (teal with a minorpoint raised by learned counsel for the State of Kerala.  Hecontends  that	there  are three conditions  which  must  befulfilled  before the protection and privileges of  Art.  30(1)  may  be claimed, namely, (1) there must be	 a  minoritycommunity, (2) one or more of the members of that  communityshould, after the commencement of the Constitution, seek  toexercise  the right to establish an educational	 institutionof -his or their choice, and (3) the educational institutionmust  be  established for the members of his  or  their	 owncommunity.   We	 have already determined, according  to	 thetest  referred to above, that the Anglo-Indians,  Christiansand Muslims are minority communities in the1051State  of Kerala.  We do not think that the  protection	 andprivilege  of  Art. 30 (1) extend only	to  the	 educationalinstitutions  established  after the date  our	Constitutioncame  into operation or which may hereafter be	established.On this hypothesis the educational institutions	 establishedby  one or I more members of any of these communities  priorto  the	 commencement  of  the	Constitution  would  not  beentitled  to  the benefits of Art. 30 (1).  The	 fallacy  ofthis  argument becomes discernible as soon as we direct	 ourattention  to Art. 19(1)(g) which, clearly  enough,  appliesalike  to  a  business,	 occupation  or	 profession  alreadystarted	 and carried on as to those that may be started	 andcarried	 on  after  the commencement  of  the  Constitution.There  is no reason why the benefit of Art. 30(1) should  belimited	 only to educational institutions established  afterthe commencement of the Constitution.  The language employedin Art. 30(1) is wide enough to cover both  pre-Constitutionand   post-Constitution	 institutions.	 It  must   not	  beoverlooked that Art. 30(1) gives the minorities two  rights,namely, (a) to establish, and (b) to administer, educationalinstitutions  of  their choice.	 The  second  right  clearlycovers	pre-Constitution schools just as Art. 26 covers	 theright  to maintain pre-Constitution religious  institutions.As  to	the third condition mentioned  above,  the  argumentcarried	 to its logical conclusion comes to this that  if  asingle	member	of any other community is  admitted  into  aschool established for the members of a particular  minoritycommunity, then the educational institution ceases to be  aneducational   institution  established	by  the	  particularminority community.  The argument is sought to be reinforcedby  a  reference  to  Art.  29(2).   It	 is  said  that	  aneducational institution established by a minority  communitywhich does not seek any aid from the funds of the State neednot  admit a single scholar belonging to a  community  otherthan  that for whose benefit it was established but that  assoon  as such an educational institution seeks and gets	 aidfrom  the  State coffers Art. 29(2) will  preclude  it	fromdenying	 admission  to members of the other  communities  ongrounds only of religion, race, caste,1052language or any of them and consequently it will cease to bean  educational	 institution of the choice of  the  minoritycommunity  which  established it.  This	 argument  does	 notappear to us to be warranted by the language of the  Articleitself.	  There is no such limitation in Art. 30(1)  and  toaccept this limitation will necessarily involve the additionof  the	 words " for their own community "  in	the  Articlewhich  is  ordinarily  not  permissible	 according  to	wellestablished  rules of interpretation.  Nor is it  reasonableto  assume  that the purpose of Art. 29(2)  was	 to  depriveminority  educational institutions of the aid  they  receivefrom  the State.  To say that an institution which  receivesaid   on  account  of  its  being  a  minority	 educationalinstitution  must  not	refuse to admit any  member  of	 anyother  community only on the grounds therein  mentioned	 andthen to say that as soon as such institution admits such  anoutsider  it  will  cease to be a  minority  institution  istantamount to saying that minority institutions will not, asminority  institutions,	 be entitled to any aid.   The	realimport Of Art. 29(2) and Art. 30(1) seen-is to us to be thatthey  clearly  contemplate a, minority	institution  with  asprinkling of outsiders admitted into it. admitting   a non-member	into it the minority institution does not  shed	 itscharacter  and cease to be a minority  institution.   Indeedthe object of conservation of' the distinct language, scriptand   Culture  of  a  minority	may  be	 better	 served	  bypropagating  the same amongst non-members of the  particularminority  community. In our opinion, it is not	possible  toread this condition into Art' 30(1) of the Constitution.Having	disposed of the minor point, referred to  above,  wenow  take up the main argument advanced before us as to	 thecontent of Art. 30(1).	The first point to note is that	 theArticle	  gives	 certain  rights  not  only   to   religiousminorities  but also to linguistic minorities.	In the	nextplace,	the  right  conferred  on  such	 minorities  is	  toestablish educational institutions of their choice.  It doesnot say that, minorities based on religion should  establisheducational institutions for teaching religion only, or thatlinguistie minorities1053should have the right to establish educational	institutionsfor teaching their language only.  What the article says andmeans  is that the religious and the  linguistic  minoritiesshould have the right to establish educational	institutionsof  their  choice.   There is no limitation  placed  on	 thesubjects to be taught in such educational institutions.	  Assuch  minorities will ordinarily desire that their  childrenshould	be  brought  up	 properly  and	efficiently  and  beeligible  for higher university education and go out in	 theworld  fully equipped with such intellectual attainments  aswill make them fit for entering the public services,  educa-tional institutions of their choice will necessarily includeinstitutions  imparting general secular education also.	  Inother  words,  the  Article leaves it  to  their  choice  toestablish  such educational institutions as will serve	bothpurposes, namely, the purpose of conserving their  religion,language  or  culture,	and also the  purpose  of  giving  athorough,  good	 general education to their  children.	 Thenext thing to note is that the Article, in terms, gives	 allminorities,  whether  based  on religion  or  language,	 tworights,	 namely, the right to establish and the right to  ad-minister  educational institutions of their The key to	 theunderstanding  of  the true meaning and implication  of	 theArticle	 under	consideration are the words " of  their	 ownchoice	". It is said that the dominant word is "  choice  "and the content of that Article is as wide as the choice  ofthe particular minority community may make it.	The ambit ofthe  rights  conferred by Art:30(1) has,  therefore,  to  bedetermined on a consideration of the matter from the  pointsof  view  of the educational institutions  themselves.	 Theeducational institutions established or administered by	 theminorities  or to be so established or administered by	themin exercise of the rights conferred by that, Article, may beclassified into three categories, namely, (1) those which donot seek either aid or recognition from the State, (2) thosewhich  want aid, and (3) those which want  only	 recognitionbut not aid.As  regards  the institutions which come  within  the  firstcategory, they are, by cl. 38 of the Bill, outside1054the  purview of the Bill and, according to  learned  counselfor the State of Kerala, nothing can be done for or  againstthem under the Bill.  They have their right under Art. 30(1)and  they can, says learned counsel, exercise that right  totheir  heart's	content	 unhampered by	the  Bill.   Learnedcounsel	 appearing  for	 the  institutions  challenging	 thevalidity of the Bill, on the other hand, point to cl. 26  ofthe Bill to which reference has already been made.  They saythat  if  the educational institutions, present	 or  future,which  come within the first category happen to	 be  locatedwithin	an area of compulsion they will have to	 close	downfor want of scholars, for all guardians residing within sucharea  are, by cl. 26, enjoined, on pain of penalty  providedby el. 28, to-send their wards only to Government schools orprivate	 schools which, according to the  definition,  meansaided  or  recognised  schools.	 Clause	 26,  it  is  urged,abridges  and  indeed  takes  away  the	 fundamental   rightconferred on the minorities by Art. 30(1) and is, therefore,unconstitutional.    The  educational  institutions   comingwithin	the  first category, not being aided  or  recognisedare, by el. 38, prima facie outside the purview of the Bill.None of the provisions of the Bill including those mentionedin  the	 Question apply to them and  accordingly  the  pointsought to be raised by them, namely, the infraction of theirright  under Art. 30(1) by el. 26 of the Bill does not	comewithin the scope of question 2 and we cannot, on the presentreference, express any opinion on that point.As regards the second category, we shall have to  sub-divideit  into  two classes, namely, (a) those which	are  by	 theConstitutional itself expressly made eligible for  receivinggrants, and (b) those which are not entitled to any grant byvirtue	of  any express provision of the  Constitution	but,nevertheless, seek to get aid.Anglo-Indian  educational  institutions	 come  within	sub-category  (a).	An Anglo-Indian is defined in  Art.  366(2).The Anglo-Indian community is a wellknown minority communityin India based on religion as well as language and has	beenrecognised1055as  such  by  this Court in The State of  Bombay  v.  BombayEducation Society (1).	According to the figures set out  inthe  statement	of  case  filed	 by  the"  two	Anglo-Indianinstitutions  represented before us by Shri  Frank  Anthony,about  which  figures  there is no dispute,  there  are	 268recognised  Anglo-Indian schools in India out of  which	 tenare  in	 the  State  of	 Kerala.   Anglo-Indian	 educationalinstitutions  established  prior  to 1948  used	 to  receivegrants	from  the Government of those  days.   Article	337,presumably  in view of the special circumstances  concerningthe Anglo-Indian community and to allay their natural  fearsfor  their  future well being, preserved this bounty  for  aperiod	of ten years.  According to that Article all  Anglo-Indian educational institutions which were, receiving grantsup  to	the financial year ending on March  31,	 1948,	willcontinue  to  receive the same grant  subject  to  triennialdiminution  of ten per cent. until the expiry of  ten  yearswhen the grant, to the extent it is a special concession  tothe  Anglo-Indian  community,  should  cease.	The   secondproviso imposes the condition that at least 40 per cent.  ofthe annual admissions must be made available to the  membersof  comnunities	 other	than  the  Anglo-Indian	  community.Likewise  Art. 29 (2) provides, inter alia, that no  citizenshall  be denied admission into any educational	 institutionreceiving  aid	out  of	 State	funds  on  grounds  only  ofreligion,  race, caste, language or any of them.  These	 arethe  only  constitutional limitations to the  right  of	 theAnglo-Indian   educational  institutions  to  receive	aid.Learned	 counsel  appearing  for  two  Anglo-Indian  schoolscontends that the State of Kerala is bound to implement	 theprovisions of Art. 337. lndeed it is stated in the statementof  case  filed by the State of Kerala	that  all  Christianschools	 are aided by that State and, therefore, the  Anglo-Indian	schools, being also Christian schools, have been  sofar getting from the State of Kerala the grant that they areentitled  to  under Art,. 337.	Their grievance is  that  byintroducing(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 568, 583.1341056this  Bill  the State of Kerala is now	seeking	 to  impose,besides	 the  constitutional limitations  mentioned  in	 thesecond proviso to Art. 337 and Art. 29 (2), further and moreonerous	 conditions  on	 this  grant  to  the  Anglo  Indianeducational institutions although their constitutional rightto such grant still subsists.  The State of Cls. 8(3),and  9to13  besides other clauses attracted by cl. 3(5) of  theBill curtailing and, according to  them		   completlytakeing away, their constitutional	right to manageownaffairs	 as a price for the grant to which under  Art.	337,they  are  entitled  unconditionally except  to	 the  extentmentioned in the second proviso to that article and in	Art.29  (2).  Learned counsel for the State of Kerala  does	 notseriously  dispute, as indeed he cannot fairly do,  that  sofar  as	 the grant under Art. 337 is  concerned	 the  Anglo-Indian educational institutions are entitled to receive	 thesame without any fresh strings being attached to such grant,although he faintly suggests that the grant received by	 theAnglo-Indian educational institutions under Art. 337 is	 notstrictly speaking " aid " within the meaning of that word asused  in the Bill.  We are unable to accept I that  part  ofhis argument as sound.	The word " aid" has not been definedin  the Bill.  Accordingly we must give this simple  Englishword its ordinary and natural meaning.	It may, in  passing,be  noted that although the word " grant " is used  in	Art.337 the word " aid " is used in Art. 29 (2) and Art. 30 (2),but there can be no question that the word " aid " in  thesetwo  Articles  will  cover the " grant	"  under  Art.	337.Before	the  passing  of  the  said  Bill  the	Anglo-Indianeducational institutions were receiving the bounty  formerlyfrom the State of Madras or Travancore-Cochin and after	 itsformation  from	 the present new State of  Kerala.   In	 thecircumstances,	the  amount  received  by  the	 AngloIndianinstitutions as grant under Art. 337 must be construed as  "aid  " within the meaning of the said Bill and these  Anglo-Indian	educational  institutions in receipt of	 this  grantpayable under Art. 337 must accordingly be regarded as aidedschools " within1057the  meaning of the definitions in cl. 2, sub-cls.  (1)	 and(6). The  imposition  of stringent terms  as  fresh  oradditional conditions precedent to this grant to the  Anglo-Indian	educational institutions will,	therefore,  infringetheir rights not only under Art. 337 but also under Art.  30(1).   If the Anglo-Indian educational	institutions  cannotget  the grant to which they are entitled except upon  termslaid down by the provisions of the Bill then, if they insiston the right of administration guaranteed to them by Art. 30(1)  they  will	 have to exercise their	 option	 tinder	 theproviso	  to  el.  3  (4)  and	remain	content	 with	mererecognisation,	subject to certain terms  therein  mentionedwhich may also be an irksome and intolerable encroachment ontheir  right of administration.	 But the real point is	thatno  educational institution can in modern times,  afford  tosubsist and efficiently function without some State aid and,therefore, to continue their institutions they will have  toseek  aid  and	will  virtually	 have  to  surrender   theirconstitutional	  right	  of	administering	 educationalinstitutions  of their choice.	the premises, they  may,  inour opinion, legitimately complain that so far as the grantsunder Art. 337 are concerned, the provisions of the  clausesof  the I-')ill mentioned in question 2 do in substance	 andeffect	infringe their fundamental rights under Art. 30	 (1)and are to that extent void.  It is urged by learned counselfor  the State of Kerala that this Court should	 decline  toanswer	this  question	until rules are framed	but  if	 theprovisions of the Bill are obnoxious on the face of them, norule can cure that defect.  No or do we think that there  isany  substance in the argument advanced by  learned  counselfor  Kerala that this Bill has ]lot introduced anything	 nowand  the  Anglo-Indian schools are not	being  subjected  toanything beyond what they have been submitting to under	 theEducation Acts and Codes of Travancore or Cochin or  Madras.In  1945  or  1947  when those	Acts  and  codes  came	intooperation there were no fundamental rights and there can  beno  loss of fundamental right merely on the ground  of	non-exercise of it.	 There is no case of estoppel here, assumingthat there can be an estoppel against the1058Constitution.	There  can be no question,  therefore,	thatthe Anglo-Indian educational institutions which are entitledto  their  (,rants  under Art. 337 are	being  subjected  toonerous conditions and the provisions of the said Bill whichlegitimately  come  within  question 2 as  construed  by  usinfringe  their	 rights	 not only under Art.  337  but	alsoviolate	 their	rights under Art. 30 (1) in  that  they	 areprevented  from	 effectively  exercising  those	 rights.  itshould	 be   borne  in	 mind  that   in   determining	 theconstitutional validity of a measure or a provision  thereinregard must be had to the real effect and impact thereof  onthe  fundamental right.	 See the decisions of this Court  inRashid	Ahmad v. Muunicipal Board Kairana's case (1),  Mohd.Yasin  v. The Town Area Committee, Jalalabad's case (2)	 andThe State of Bombay v. Bombay Education Society's case (3).Learned counsel for the State of Kerala next urges that eachand  every one of the Anglo-Indian educational	institutionsare  getting much more than what they are entitled to  underArt. 337 and that consequently, in so far as-, these  Anglo-Indian	educational institutions are getting more than	whatis  due	 to them under Art. 337, they are,  as	regards	 theexcess,	  in  the  same	 position  as	other	Anglo-Indianeducational   institutions  started  after  1948   and	 theeducational institutions established by other minorities whohave  no  right to aid under any express  provision  of	 theConstitution  but are in receipt of aid or seek to  get	 it.This  takes  us	 to the consideration of the  cases  of	 theeducational institutions which fall within sub-category	 (b)mentioned  above,  namely, the institutions  which  are	 notentitled  to  any  grant of aid by  virtue  of	any  expressprovision of the Constitution but, nevertheless, seek to getaid from the State.We have already seen that Art. 337 of the Constitution makesspecial	  provision   for  granting  aid   to	Anglo-Indianeducational  institutions established prior to 1948.   Thereis  no	constitutional provision for such grant	 of  aid  toeducational institutions established by(1) [1950] S.C.R. 566, 571.	(2) [1952] S.C.R. 572, 577.(3) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 568, 583.1059the   Anglo-Indian   community	after  1948  or	  to   thoseestablished by other minority communities at any time.	 Theother	minority  communities  or  even	  the	Anglo-Indiancommunity  in respect of post-1948 educational	institutionshave  no constitutional right, fundamental or otherwise,  toreceive	 any  grant from the State.  It is,  however,  well-known  that in modern times the demands and  necessities  ofmodern	 educational   institutions  to	 be   properly	 andefficiently run require considerable expense which cannot bemet  fully by fees collected from the scholars	and  privateendowments  which  are	not  adequate  and,  therefore,	  noeducational  institution  can be maintained in	a  state  ofefficiency  and usefulness without substantial aid from	 theState.	  Articles   28(3),  29(2)   and   30(2)   postulateeducational  institutions receiving aid out of State  funds.By the bill now under consideration the State of Kerala alsocontemplates   the   granting	of   aid   to	 educationalinstitutions.	The  said Pill, however,  imposes  stringentterms  as  conditions  precedent  to the  grant	 of  aid  toeducational  institutions.  The provisions of the Bill	havealready been summarised in detail in an earlier part of thisopinion	 and need not be recapitulated.	 Suffice it  to	 saythat  if the said Bill becomes law then, in order to  obtainaid  from State funds, an educational institution will	haveto submit to the conditions laid down in cls. 3. 5, 6, 7, 8,9,  10,	 11,  12, 14, 15 and 20.   Clause  36  empowers	 theGovernment to make rules providing for the giving of aids toprivate	  schools.   Learned  counsel  appearing   for	 theeducational  institutions  opposing the Bill  complain	thatthose  clauses	virtually  deprive their  clients  of  theirrights under Art. 30(1).Their  grievances are thus stated: The gist of the right  ofadministration	of  a school is the  power  of	appointment,control	 and  dismissal of teachers and	 other	staff.	 Butunder the said Bill such power of management is	 practicallytaken away.  Thus the manager must submit annual  statements(el.  5).  The fixed assets of the aided schools are  frozenand  cannot be dealt with except with the permission of	 theauthorised  officer  (cl. 6).  No educational agency  of  anaided1060school	can appoint a manager of its choice and the  manageris  completely under the control of the authorised  officer,for he must keep accounts in the manner he is told to do andto give periodical inspection of them, and on the closure ofthe school the accounts must be made over to the  authorisedofficer	 (el. 7).  All fees etc. collected will have  to  bemade  over to the Government (el. 8 (3)).   Government	willtake up the task of paying the teachers and the non-teachingstaff (cl. 9).	Government will prescribe the  qualificationof teachers (cl. 10).  The school authorities cannot appointa  single teacher of their choice, but must appoint  personsout  of the panel settled by the Public	 Service  Commission(cl. 11).  The school authorities must provide amenities  toteachers and cannot dismiss, remove, reduce or even  suspenda  teacher without the previous sanction of  the  authorisedofficer	 (cl. 12).  Government may take over the  managementon  being  satisfied  as to certain  matters  and  can	thenacquire	 it  outright (el. 14) and it can also	acquire	 theaided  school,	against on its satisfaction  is	 to  certainmatters	 on  which  it	is  easily  possible  to   entertaindifferent views (cl. 15).  Clause 20 peremptorily prevents aprivate	 school, which means an aided or recognised  school,from  charging any fees for tuition in the  primary  classeswhere  the number of scholars are the  highest,	 Accordinglythey contend that those provisions do offend the fundamentalrights conferred on them by Art. 30(1).Learned	 counsel appearing for the State of Kerala  advancesthe  extreme  contention  that Art. 30 (1)  Confers  on	 theminorities the fundamental right to establish and administereducational  institutions of their choice and nothing  more.They  are free to exercise such rights as much as they	likeand  as long as they care to do so on their  own  resources.But  this  fundamental	right goes  no	further	 and  cannotpossibly  extend to their getting financial assistance	fromthe coffers of the State.  If they desire or seek to  obtainaid  from the State they must submit to the terms  on  whichthe  State offers aid to all other educational	institutionsestablished by other people just as a person1061will  have to pay 15 naye paise if he wants to buy  a  stampfor an inland letter.  Learned counsel appearing for the twoAnglo-Indian  schools as well. as learned counsel  appearingfor the Jamait-ul-ulemia-iHind, on the other hand, insist intheir turn, on an equally extreme proposition, namely,	thattheir clients' fundamental rights under Art. 30 (1) are,  interms,	absolute and not only can it not be taken  away	 butcannot	even  be  abridged to any  extent.   They  draw	 ourattention  first  to Art. 19 (1) (g) which  confers  on	 thecitizens the fundamental right to carry on any business	 andthen  to  cl.  6 of that article  which	 permits  reasonablerestrictions  being  imposed on that fundamental  right	 andthey contend that, as there is no such provision in Art.  30(1) conferring on the State any police power authorising theimposition of social control, the fundamental rights  tinderArt.  30  (1)  must be held to be  absolute  and  cannot  besubjected to any restriction whatever.	They reinforce theirarguments  by  relying on Arts. 28 (3), 29 (2)	and  30	 (2)which, they rightly submit, do contemplate the grant of	 aidto  educational	 institutions established by  minority	com-munities.   Learned counsel also strongly rely on  Arts.  41and 46 of the Constitution which, as directive principles ofState  policy,	make  it  the  duty  of	 the  State  to	 aideducational  institutions  and to  promote  the	 educationalinterests  of the minorities and the weaker sections of	 thepeople.	  Granting  of aid to educational  institutions	 is,according  to  learned counsel, the normal function  of	 theGovernment.   The  Constitution	 contemplates	institutionswholly	maintained  by	the  State,  as	 also	institutionsreceiving  aid from the State.	If, therefore, the  grantingof  aid	 is a governmental function, it must, they  say,  bedischarged  in a reasonable way and without  infringing	 thefundamental  rights  of	 the minorities.  There	 may  be  nofundamental right given to any person or body  administeringan  educational	 institution to get aid from the  State	 andindeed	if  the	 State has not sufficient  funds  it  cannotdistribute  any.  Nevertheless if the State does  distributeaid it cannot, they contend, attach such conditions to it aswill deprive the1062minorities  of	their fundamental rights under	Art.  30(1).Attaching  stringent conditions, such as those	provided  bythe  said  Bill and summarised above, is  violative  of	 therights	 guaranteed  to	 the  minorities  by   Art.   30(1).Surrender  of fundamental rights cannot, they  conclude,  beexacted as the price of aid doled out by the State.We are thus faced will a problem of considerable  complexityapparently difficult of solution.  There is, on the one handthe  minority  rights  under Art.  30(1)  to  establish	 andadminister educational institutions of their choice and	 theduty  of the Government to promote education, there  is,  onthe other side the obligation of the State under Art. 45  toendeavour  to introduce free and compulsory  education.	  Wehave  to reconcile between these two  conflicting  interestsarid  to give effect to both if that is possible  and  bringabout a synthesis between the two.  The directive principlescannot	ignore or override the fundamental rights but  must,as  we have said, subserve the fundamental rights.  We	havealready	 observed  that Art. 30(1) gives two rights  to	 theminorities,   (1)  to  establish  and  (2)  to	 administer,educational  institutions  of their choice.   The  right  toadminister   cannot   obviously	  include   the	  right	  tomaladminister.	 The minority cannot surely ask for  aid  orrecognition  for an educational institution run by  them  inunhealthy  surroundings,  without  any	competent  teachers,possessing  any semblance of Qualification, and	 which	doesnot  maintain  even  a fair standard of	 teaching  or  whichteaches	 matters subversive of the welfare of the  scholars.It stands to reason, then, that the constitutional right  toadminister  an educational institution of their choice	doesnot  necessarily militate against the claim of the State  toinsist that in order to In grant aid the State may prescribereasonable  regulations	 to  ensure the	 excellence  of	 theinstitutions   to  be  aided.	Learned	 Attorney   -Generalconcedes  that	reasonable  regulations	 may  certainly	  beimposed	 by  the state as a condition for aid  or  even	 forrecognition.  There is no right in any minority, other	thanAnglo-Indians,	to  get aid, but, he contends, that  if	 theState chooses to1063grant  aid then it must not say-" I have money and  I  shalldistribute  aid but I shall not give you any aid unless	 yousurrender to me your right of administra . tion." The  Statemust  not  grant aid in such manner as will  take  away	 thefundamental  right  of	the minority  community	 under	Art.30(1).	 Shri  ('X.   S. Pathak appearing for  some  of	 theinstitutions opposing the Bill agrees that it is open to theState  to lay down conditions for recognition, namely,	thatan  institution	 must have a particular amount of  funds  orproperties  or number of students or standard  of  educationand  so	 forth	and it is open to the State to	make  a	 lawprescribing conditions for such recognition or aid provided,however,  that	such  law is  constitutional  and  does	 notinfringe   any	 fundamental  right   of   the	 minorities.Recognition and grant of aid, says Shri G. S. Pathak, is thegovernmental  function	and,  therefore,  the  State  cannotimpose	terms  as  condition  precedent	 to  the  grant	  ofrecognition  or aid which will be violative of	Art.  30(1).According  to  the statement of case filed by the  State  ofKerala, every Christian school in the State is aided by	 theState.	 Therefore, the conditions imposed by the said	Billon  aided  institutions	 established  and  administered	  byminority  communities,	like the Christians,  including	 theAnglo-Indian community, will lead to the closing down of allthese  aided schools unless they are agreeable to  surrendertheir  fundamental  right  of  management.   No	 educationalinstitutions  can in actual practice be carried	 on  withoutaid  from the State and if they will not get it unless	theysurrender their rights they will, by compulsion of financialnecessities, be compelled to give up their rights under Art.30(1).	The legislative powers conferred on the legislaturesof the States by Arts. 245 and 246 are subject to the  otherprovisions   of	 the  Constitution  and	 certainly  to	 theprovisions  of	Part III which	confers	 fundamental  rightswhich  are,  therefore, binding on the	State  legislatures.The  State  legislatures cannot, it is clear,  disregard  oroverride  those	 provisions  merely  by	 employing  indirectmethods of achieving exactly the1351064same result.  Even the legislature cannot do indirectly whatit  certainly  cannot  do directly.  Yet that  will  be	 theeffect	of the application of these provisions of  the	Billand  according	to  the	 decisions  of	this  Court  alreadyreferred  to it is the real effect to which regard is to  behad  in	 determining  the  constitutional  validity  of	 anymeasure.  Clauses 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15 and 20  relateto   the  management  of  aided	 schools.   Some  of   theseprovisions,  e.g.,  7, 10, 11(1), 12(1)(2)(3)  and  (5)	 mayeasily	be regarded as reasonable regulations or  conditionsfor  the  grant	 of aid.  Clauses 9, 11(2)  and	 12(4)	are,however,  objected to as going much beyond  the	 permissiblelimit.	 It is said that by taking over the  collections  offees,  etc., and by undertaking to pay the salaries  of	 theteachers  and  other  staff the	 Government  is	 in  realityconfiscating the school fund and taking away the prestige ofthe  school,  for none will care for the  school  authority.Likewise  cl.  II takes away an obvious item of	 management,for the manager cannot appoint any teacher at all except outof   the  panel	 to  be	 prepared  by  the  Public   ServiceCommission,  which, apart from the question of its power  oftaking up such duties, may not be qualified at all to selectteachers  who will be acceptable to religious  denominationsand   in   particular  sub-el.	(2)  of	  that	 clause	  isobjectionable  for it thrusts upon educational	institutionsof religious minorities teachers of Scheduled Castes who mayhave no knowledge of the tenets of their religion and may beotherwise weak educationally.  Power of dismissal,  removal,reduction in rank or suspension is an index of the right  ofmanagement and that is taken away by cl. 12(4).	 These	are,no doubt, serious inroads on the right of administration andappear	 perilously   near  violating	that   right.	 Butconsidering  that  those provisions are	 applicable  to	 alleducational institutions and that the impugned parts of cls.9, 11 and 12 are designed to give protection and security tothe  ill paid teachers who are engaged in rendering  serviceto the nation and protect the backward classes, we are	pre-pared,	as  at present advised, to treat  these	 clauses  9,11(2) and 12(4) as permissible regulations which the1065State  may  impose  on the minorities  as  a  condition	 forgranting  aid  to  their  educational  institutions.	We,,however, find it impossible to support cls. 14 and 15 of thesaid  Bill  as mere regulations.  The  provisions  of  thoseclauses may be totally destructive of the rights under	Art.30(1).	It is true that the right to aid is not implicit  inArt. 30(1) but the provisions of those clauses, if submittedto  on account of their factual compulsion as  condition  ofaid,   may  easily  be	violative  of  Art.  30(1)  of	 theConstitution.	Learned	 counsel  for the  State  of  Keralarecognises  that cls. 14 and 15 of the Bill  may  annihilatethe  minority  communities'  right  to	manage	 educationalinstitutions  of their choice but submits that the  validityof  those clauses is not the subject matter of	question  2.But,  as  already explained, all newly	established  schoolsseeking aid or recognition are, by el. 3(5), made subject toall  the provisions of the Act.	 Therefore, in a  discussionas  to the constitutional validity of cl. 3(5) a  discussionof  the	 validity of the other clauses of the  Bill  becomesrelevant,  not	as  and by way of a  separate  item  but  indetermining the validity of the provisions of el. 3(5).	  Inour  opinion, sub-el. 3 of el. 8 and cls. 9, 10, 11, 12	 and13  being merely regulatory do not offend.  Art. 30(1),	 butthe  provisions of sub-cl. (5) of cl. 3 by making the  aidededucational  institutions  subject  to cls.  14	 and  15  asconditions  for	 the. grant of aid do  offend  against	Art.30(1) of the Constitution.We   now   come	 to  the,  last	 category   of	 educationalinstitutions   established  and	 administered  by   minoritycommunities which seek only recognition but not aid from theState.	 The  extreme  arguments  advanced  with  regard  torecognition  by learned counsel for the State of Kerala	 andlearned counsel for the two Anglo-Indian schools and learnedcounsel	 for  the Muslim institutions proceed  on  the	samelines as those advanced respectivly by them on the  questionas  to	granting of aid, namely, that the  State  of  Keralamaintains  that the minority communities may exercise  theirfundamental   right   under  Art.  30(1)   by	establishingeducational institutions of their choice wherever they	likeand administer the same in their own way1066and need not seek recognition from the Government, but	thatif   the   minority  communities  desire  to   have   'Staterecognition  hey  must	submit	to  the	 terms	imposed,  asconditions  precedent to recognition, on  every	 educationalinstitution.   The claim of the educational institutions  ofthe  minority communities, on the other hand, is that  theirfundamental right under Art. 30(1) is absolute and cannot besubjected to any restriction whatever.	Learned counsel	 forthe  two Anglo-Indian schools appearing on  this  reference,relying	 on  some decisions of the American  Supreme  Court,maintains that a child is not the creature of the State	 andthe  parents have the right to get their child	educated  ineducational  institutions of their choice.   Those  Americandecisions proceed on the language of the due process clausesof  the	 Fifth	and the Fourteenth Amendments  and  have  noapplication  to a situation arising under  our	Constitution-and  we need not, therefore, discuss them in  detail  here.Adverting to the two conflicting views propounded before -uswe  repeat that neither of the two extreme propositions	 canbe sustained and we have to reconcile the two, if  possible.Article	 26 gives freedom to religious denominations or	 anysection	 thereof,  subject  to public  order,  morality	 andhealth, to establish and maintain institutions for religiousand charitable purposes.  Article 29(1) gives protection  toany section of -citizens residing in the territory of  Indiahaving a distinct language, script or culture of its own theright to conserve the same.  As we have already stated,	 thedistinct language, script or culture of a minority communitycan  best be conserved by and through  educational  institu-tions,	for  it is by education that their  culture  can  beinculcated into the impressionable minds of the children  oftheir  community.   It is through  educational	institutionsthat  the language and script of the minority community	 canbe preserved, improved and strengthened.  It is,  therefore,that Art. 3O(1) confers on all minorities, whether based  onreligion- or language, the right to establish and administereducational  institutions of their choice.  The	 minorities,quite  understandably,	regard	it  as	essential  that	 theeducation1067of their children should be in accordance with the teachingsof  their religion and they hold, quite honestly, that	suchan education cannot be obtained in ordinary schools designedfor all the members of the public but can only be secured inschools conducted under the influence and guidance of peoplewell  versed  in  the tenets of their religion	and  in	 thetraditions  of	their  culture.	  The  minorities  evidentlydesire that education should be imparted to the children  oftheir community in an atmosphere congenial to the growth  oftheir  culture.	  Our  Constitution  makers  recognised	 thevalidity  of their claim and to allay their fears  conferredon  them the fundamental rights referred to above.  But	 theconservation of the distinct language, script or culture  isnot  the only object of choice of the minority	communities.They   also  desire  that  scholars  of	 their	 educationalinstitutions   should	go  out	 in  the  world	  well	 andsufficiently equipped with the qualifications necessary	 fora  useful  career in life.  But according to  the  EducationCode  now in operation to which it is permissible  to  referfor  ascertaining  the effect of the impunged  provision  onexisting  state	 of affairs, the  scholars  of	unrecognisedschools	 are  not  permitted  to  avail	 themselves  of	 theopportunities for higher education in the University and arenot  eligible  for entering the	 public	 services.   Withoutrecognition,   therefore,   the	  educational	institutionsestablished or to be established by the minority communitiescannot	fulfil	the  real objects of their  choice  and	 therights	under  Art. 30(1) cannot be  effectively  exercised.The  right  to establish educational institutions  of  theirchoice	must,  therefore, mean the right to  establish	realinstitutions which will effectively serve the needs of theircommunity  and the scholars who resort to their	 educationalinstitutions.	There  is,  no	doubt,	no  such  thing	  asfundamental  right to recognition by the State but  to	denyrecognition  to	 the educational  institutions	except	uponterms  tantamount to the surrender of  their  constitutionalright  of administration of the educational institutions  oftheir  choice is in truth and in effect to deprive  them  oftheir	rights	under  Art.  30(1).   We  repeat  that	 thelegislative power is subject to the1068fundamental  rights  and the legislature  cannot  indirectlytake  away or abridge the fundamental rights which it  couldnot do directly and yet that will be the result if the	saidBill containing any offending clause becomes law.  Accordingto the decisions of this Court referred to above, in judgingthe  validity  of  any law regard must be had  to  its	realintendment  and	 effect	 on  the  rights  of  the  aggrievedparties,  rather  than	to  its	 form.	 According  to	 theEducation Codes certain conditions are prescribed-whether aslegislative  or	 as  executive measures we do  not  stop  toenquire-as conditions for the grant of recognition and it issaid,  as it was said during the discussion on the  questionof aid, that the said Bill imposes no more burden than	whatthese minority educational institutions along with those  ofother  communities  are already subjected to.	As  we	haveobserved  there	 can  be  no  question	of  the	 loss  of  afundamental  right merely by the non-exercise of it.   Thereis no case here of any estoppel, assuming that there can  beany  estoppel  against	the  Constitution.   Therefore,	 theimpugned  provisions of the said Bill must be considered  onits merits.By cl. 19 the following clauses, namely, 7 (except  sub-cls.I  and 3 which apply only to aided schools), 10 and 20	weremade  applicable to recognised schools.	 We are prepared  toaccept the provisions of sub-cls. 2, 4 to 9 of cl. 7 and theprovisions  of cl. 10 as permissible regulations but  it  isdifficult to treat el. 20 as merely regulatory.	 That clauseperemptorily  requires	that no fees should be	charged	 fortuition	 in the primary classes.  There is no  dispute	thatthe  number  of pupils in the primary classes is  more	thanthat in the other classes.  The 1955-1956 figures of school-going  children, as to which there is no dispute, show	thatof  the age group) of 6 to II cent per cent. of boys  attendclasses,  while 91 per cent. of girls of that age  group  dothe same.  There is a drop in attendance when we come to agegroup  11 to 14.  In that age group 36.2 per cent.  of	boysand  29	 per  cent. of girls go to  school.   It  is  clear,therefore, that although the rate of fees charged in primaryclasses	 is lower than those charged in higher classes,	 thetotal amount collected from scholars1069attending primary classes is quite considerable and forms anappreciable part of the total income of the school.  If thisBill becomes law, all these schools will have to forego thisfruitful source of income.  There is, however, no  provisionfor counterbalancing the loss of fees which will be  broughtabout  by  el.	20 when it comes into force.   There  is  noprovision, such as there is in el. 9 which applies to  aidedschools	 only,	that the State should make good	 that  loss.Therefore,  the ,imposition of such restriction against	 thecollection of fees from any pupil in the primary classes  asa  condition for recognition will in effect make  it  impos-sible  for  an	educational  institution  established  by  aminority  community being carried on.  It is true  that	 el.36(2)(c) empowers the Government to make rules providing forthe grant of recognition to private schools and we are askedto suspend our opinion until the said Bill comes into  forceand rules are actually made.  But no rule to be framed underel. 36(2)(c) can nullify the constitutional infirmity of cl.3(5)  read with cl. 20 which is calculated to  infringe	 thefundamental  rights  of minority communities in	 respect  ofrecognised schools to be established after the	commencementof the said Bill.Learned	 counsel for the State of Kerala referred us to	 thedirective principles contained in Art. 45 which requires theState to endeavour to provide, within a period of ten  yearsfrom  the  commencement of the Constitution,  for  free	 andcompulsory  education for all children until  they  completethe  age of fourteen years and with considerable  warmth  offeeling and indignation maintained that no minorities shouldbe  permitted to stand in the way of the  implementation  ofthe  sacred  duty  cast-upon the State of  giving  free	 andcompulsory primary education to the children of the  countryso  as	to bring them up properly and to make them  fit	 fordischarging   the  duties  and	responsibilities   of	goodcitizens.   To	pamper	to  the	 selfish  claims  of   theseminorities  is, according to ].earned counsel, to  set	backthe   hands  of	 the  clock  of	 progress.    Should   theseminorities, asks learned counsel, be permitted to perpetuatethe sectarian fragmentation of the people1070and  to	 keep them perpetually segregated  in  separate	 andisolated  cultural enclaves and thereby retard the unity  ofthe  nation ? Learned counsel for the minority	institutionswere  equally cloquent as to the sacred. obligation  of	 theState towards the minority communities.	 It is not for	thisCourt  to  question the wisdom of the supreme,	law  of	 theland.  We the people of India have given unto ourselves	 theConstitution  which is not for any particular  community  orsection but for all.  Its provisions are intended to protectall,  minority as well as the majority	communities.   Therecan  be	 no  manner  of	 doubt	that  our  Constitution	 hasguaranteed  certain  cherished	rights	of  the	  minoritiesconcerning  their  language, culture  and  religion.   Theseconcessions  must have been made to them for good and  validreasons.   Article  45,	 no doubt,  requires  the  State  toprovide for free and compulsory education for all  children,but  there is nothing to prevent the State from	 dischargingthat solemn obligation through Government and aided  schoolsand  Art.  45  does  not  require  that	 obligation  to	  bedischarged  at the expense of the minority communities.	  Solong as the Constitution stands as it is and is not altered,it  is,	 we conceive, the duty of this Court to	 uphold	 thefundamental rights and thereby honour our sacred  obligationto the minority communities who are of our own.	  Throughoutthe  ages  endless  inundations of men	of  diverse  creeds,cultures  and  races-Aryans and non-Aryans,  Dravidians	 andChinese,  Scythians, Huns, Pathans and Mughalshave  come  tothis  ancient land from distant regions and  climes.   Indiahas  welcomed them all.	 They have met and  gathered.  givenand  taken  and	 got mingled, merged and lost  in  one	bodyIndia's tradition has thus been epitomised in the  followingnoble lines:" None shall be turned away	       From  the shore of this vast sea of  humanityThat is India ".Indeed	India  has  sent out to the  world  her	 message  ofgoodwill enshrined and proclaimed in our National Anthem:Poems by Rabindranath Tagore.1071	Day and night ,the voice goes out from			  land to land,       calling Hindus, Buddhists, Sikhs and Jains		    round thy throne      and Parsees, Mussalmans and Christians.	Offerings are brought to thy shrine by	   the East and the West	 to  be woven in a garland of love.    Thou bringest the hearts of all peoples     into the harmony of one life,       Thou Dispenser of India's destiny,	 Victory, Victory, Victory to thee."*It  is thus that the genius of India has been able  to	findunity  in diversity by assimilating the best of	 all  creedsand  cultures.	Our Constitution accordingly recognises	 oursacred obligations to the minorities.  Looking at the rightsguaranteed  to the minorities by our Constitution  from	 theangle of vision indicated above, we are of opinion that	 el.7  (except  sub-cls.   I and 3 which  apply  only  to  aidedschools)  and  cl. 10 may well be  regarded  as	 permissibleregulation  which  the	State is entitled  to  impose  as  acondition  for according its recognition to any	 educationalinstitution but that el. 20 which has been extended by el. 3(5) to newly established recognised schools, in so far as itaffects	   -educational	  institutions	  established	 andadministered  by minority communities, is violative of	Art.30 (1).Re.   Question 4 : This question raises	 the  constitutionalvalidity of cl. 33 of the said Bill.  That clause, which hashereinbefore   been   set  out	in   full,   provides	thatnotwithstanding	 anything  contained in the  Code  of  CivilProcedure,  1908,  or any other law for the  time  being  inforce no Court shall grant any temporary injunction or	makeany interim order restraining any proceeding which is  beingor  about to be taken under the provisions of the Bill	whenit becomes an Act.  Article 226 of the Constitution  confersextensive  jurisdiction and power on the High Courts in	 theStates.	  This jurisdiction and power extend throughout	 theterritories in relation to which the High Court exercises*Rabindranath Tagore.1361072jurisdiction.	It  can issue to any  person  or  authority,including in appropriate cases any Government, within  thoseterritories,  directions,  orders  or writs  of	 the  naturementioned  therein  for the enforcement of  the	 fundamentalrights	or for any other purpose.  No enactment of  a  StateLegislature  can, as long as that Article stands, take	awayor abridge the jurisdiction and power conferred on the	HighCourt by that Article.	The question is whether cl. 33	doesso.  The doubts which have arisen with regard to cl. 33	 arethus formulated in the order of reference :-"  AND	WHEREAS clause 33 of the said  Bill  provides  that,notwithstanding	 anything  contained in the  Code  of  CivilProcedure,  1908,  or any other law for the  time  being  inforce, no courts can grant any temporary injunction or	makeany interim order restraining any proceedings which is beingor about to be taken under the Act;AND WHEREAS a doubt has arisen whether the provisions of thesaid clause 33, in so far as they relate to the jurisdictionof  the	 High  Courts,	would  offend  Article	226  of	 theConstitution,The  State of Kerala in their statement of case	 disowns  inthe following words all intentions in that behalf :" 52. Kerala State asks this Honourable Court to answer	 thefourth	question  in the negative, on the  ground  that	 thepower given to High Courts by Art. 226remains	unaffectedby the said cl. 33.   53.	  Kerala State contends that the argument that cl.33affects Art. 226 is without foundation.54.  The Constitution is the paramount law of the land,	 andnothing short of a constitutional amendment as provided	 forunder  the Constitution can affect any of the provisions  ofthe  Constitution, including Art. 226.	The power  conferredupon  High Courts under Art. 226 of the Constitution  is  anOver-riding  power entitling them, under certain  conditionsand circumstances, to issue writs, orders and directions  tosubordinate	courts,	   tribunals	 and	 authoritiesnotwithstanding any rule or law to the contraryLearned counsel for the State of Kerala submits that el.  33must be read subject to Arts. 226 and 32 of the1073Constitution.	He  relies on the well	known  principle  ofconstruction that if a provision in a statute is capable  oftwo  interpretations  then  that  interpretation  should  beadopted which will make the provision valid rather than	 theone  which will make it invalid.  He relies on the  words  "other  law  for	 the time being in  force  "  as  positivelyindicating  that  the  clause has not  the  constitution  incontemplation,	for  it	 will  be  inapt  to  speak  of	 theConstitution  as a " law for the time being in force  ".  Herelies on the meaning of the word "Law " appearing in  Arts.2,  4, 32 (3) and 367(1) of the Constitution where  it	mustmean  law enacted by a legislature.  He also relies  on	 thedefinition  of	" Indian Law " in s. 3(29)  of	the  GeneralClauses Act and submits that the word " Law " in cl. 33 mustmean  a law of the same kind as the Civil Procedure Code  of1908,  that  is	 to  say,  a  law  made	 by  an	 appropriateLegislature  in	 exercise of its  legislative  function	 andcannot	refer  to the Constitution.  We	 find  ourselves  inagreement  with this contention of learned counsel  for	 theState  of  Kerala.  We are not aware of	 any  difficulty-andnone  has  been	 shown	to us in  construing  cl.  33  as  aprovision  subject to the overriding provisions of Art.	 226of the Constitution and our answer to question No. 4 must bein the negative.In  accordance with the foregoing opinion we report  on	 thequestions as follows:-Question No. 1 : No.QuestionNo. 2: (i) Yes, so far as Anglo-Indian educationalinstitutions entitled to grant under Art. 337 are concerned.(ii) As regards other minorities not entitled to grant as ofright  under any express provision of the Constitution,	 butare in receipt of aid or desire such aid and also as regardsAngloIndian  educational institutions in so far as they	 arereceiving  aid in excess of what are due to them under	Art.337, clauses 8(3), and 9 to 13 do not offend Art. 30(1)	 butclause	3(5)  in  so  far  as  it  makes  such	 educationalinstitutions  subject  to clauses 14 and 15 do	offend	Art.30(1).	(iii)  Clause 7 (except sub-cls. (1) and  (3)  whichapplies only to aided schools), cl. 10 in1074so far as they apply to recognised schools to be establishedafter  the  said Bill comes into force do  not	offend	Art.30(1)  but  cl. 3(5) in so far as it makes the	new  schoolsestablished  after the commencement of the Bill	 subject  toel. 20 does offend Art. 30(1).Question No. 3: No.Question No. 4: No ; clause 33 is subject to Art. 226 of theConstitution.VENKATARAMA  AIYAR J.-I agree that the answer  to  QuestionsNos  1,	 3 and 4 should be as stated in the judgment  of  MyLord,  the Chief Justice.  But as regards Question No. 2,  1am  unable to concur in the view expressed therein that	 Cl.(20)  of  the  Bill is, in its	application  to	 educationalinstitutions   of  minorities,	religious   or	 linguistic,repugnant  to  Art. 30(1) of the Constitution , and  is,  inconsequence, to that extent void.Clause (20) provides that:"  No fee shall be payable by any pupil for any	 tuition  inthe primary classes in any Government or private school."Now, the question is whether this Clause is violative of theright  which Art. 30(1) confers on all minorities  based  onreligion   or	language,  to	establish   and	  administereducational  institutions  of their choice.  Ex	 facie,	 Cl.(20)  does not prohibit the establishment or  administrationof  such  institutions by the minorities; it  only  providesthat in private schools no fee shall be payable by  studentsin  the	 primary  classes.  On the  terms  of  this  Clause,therefore, it is difficult to see how it offends Art. 30(1).But it is contended by learned counsel who appeared for	 theminorities  that in practice no school could be	 run  unlessfees  are  collected from the students, that  therefore	 Cl.(20)  must,  if operative, result in the extinction  of	 theeducational  institutions  of  minorities, and	that  was  adirect	invasion  of their right to establish  and  maintainthose institutions.  It is no doubt the law that in decidingon the constitutionality of an enactment, regard must be hadnot  merely  to its language but also to its effect  on	 therights	of  the parties, not merely to what it says  but  towhat it does.  Even so, it is difficult to see how1075Cl.  (20)  can be said to infringe Art. 30(1).	 It  appliesonly to Government and private schools, and a private schoolis  defined in Cl. 2(6) as " meaning an aided or  recognisedschool ". Clause (38) provides that :" Nothing in this Act shall apply to any school which is nota Government or a private school."The   result  is  that	there  is  no  prohibition   againstminorities, religious or linguistic, establishing their	 owneducational institutions and charging fees, so long as	theydo  not seek aid or recognition from the State.	 It is	onlywhen they make a demand on the State for aid or	 recognitionthat  the provisions of the Bill will become  applicable  tothem.But  it	 is  argued  that the right  of	 the  minorities  toestablish   their  own	educational  institutions  will	  beTendered  illusory,  if the students who pass  out  of	themcannot	sit for public examinations held by the State or  beeligible for recruitment to State services, and that, it  issaid,	is  the	 effect	 of  the  non-recognition   of	 theinstitutions.	It  is accordingly contended  that  for	 theeffective  exercise  of the rights under Art. 30(1),  it  isnecessary to imply therein a right in the minorities to havethose  institutions  recognised by the State.  That  is	 thecrucial question that has to be determined.  If there is  noright	in  the	 minorities  to	 have	their	institutionsrecognised by the State, then the question whether Cl.	(20)is ail invasion of that right would not arise for  decision.It  is only if we hold that such right is to be	 implied  inArt.  30(1)  that  the	further question  will	have  to  beconsidered  whether  Cl. (20) infringes	 that  right.	Now,whether minorities, religious or linguistic, have a right toget recognition for their institutions under Art. 30(1) mustdepend	on  the interpretation to be put  on  that  Article.There  is nothing in it about recognition by the  State	 of'educational  institutions established by minorities, and  ifwe are to accept the contention of learned counsel appearingfor them, we must read into the statute words such as "	 andit  shall  be  the  duty of  the  State	 to  recognise	suchinstitutions." It is a rule of construction well establishedthat words are not to be1076added  to a statute unless they are required to give  effectto  its intention otherwise manifest therein, and that	rulemust apply with all the greater force here, seeing that whatwe are interpreting is a Constitution.	Now, a reference  tothe relevant provisions of the Constitution shows that	sucha  right  is  not implicit in  Art.  30(1).   Article  28(1)provides that no religious instruction shall be provided  inany  educational institution maintained wholly out of  Statefunds.	 Article 28(3) enacts that no person  attending	 anyeducational institution recognised by the State or receivingaid  out  of State funds shall be required to take  part  inreligious instruction.	Under Art. 29(2), no person is to bedenied admission into any educational institution maintainedby the State or receiving aid out of State funds on  groundsonly of religion, race, caste, language or any of them.	  InArt. 30(2), there is express provision that in granting	 aidno  discrimination  should be made against  any	 educationalinstitution on the ground that it is under the management ofa minority based on religion or language.  It is clear	fromthe above catena of provisions that the Constitution makes aclear distinction between State-maintained, State-aided	 andState-recognised educational institutions, and provides	 fordifferent rights and obligations in relation to them.  If itintended that the minorities mentioned in Art. 30(1)  shouldhave a fundamental right in the matter of the recognition oftheir  educational institutions by the State, nothing  wouldhave  been easier than to have said so.	 On the other  hand,there  is  good	 reason to infer that  it  has	deliberatelyabstained  from	 imposing on the State such  an	 obligation.The  educational institutions protected by Art. 30(1)  mightimpart	purely	religious  instruction.	  Indeed,  it  seemslikely	that  it  is such institutions	that  are  primarilyintended to be protected by Art. 30(1).	 Now, to compel	 theState  to recognise those institutions would  conflict	withthe fundamental concept on which the Constitution is  framedthat   the  State  should  be  secular	in  character.	  Ifinstitutions which give only religious education can have noright to compel recognition by the State1077under	Art.  30(1),  how  could  educational	institutionsestablished by minorities and imparting secular education beheld to possess that right?  The contents of Art. 30(1) mustbe  the same as regards all institutions falling within	 itsambit.	Construing, therefore, Art.30(1) on its language, itis  difficult to support the conclusion that it implies	 anyright	in   the  minorities  to  have	 their	 educationalinstitutions recognised by the State.The   matter  does  not	 rest  there.	There  is   in	 theConstitution a provision which seems clearly to negative theright,	which  is  claimed  on	behalf	of  the	 minorities.Article 45 provides that:" The State shall endeavour to provide, within. a period  often  years from the commencement of this  Constitution,	 forfree  and compulsory education for all children	 until	theycomplete the age of fourteen years."It  is	precisely this obligation laid on the State  by	 theConstitution that is sought to be carried out in cl. (20) ofthe Bill.  Now, it should be clear that if the right of	 theminorities    to   establish   and   maintain	 educationalinstitutions  under  Art. 30(1) carries with it	 an  impliedright  to  be recognised by the State, then no	law  of	 theState  can compel them to admit students free and  thereforeArt.  45 can never become operative, since what it  providesis  free  education  for all children  and  not	 merely	 forchildren  other than those who attend  institutions  fallingwithin	Art.  30(1).   It is contended	that  the  directiveprinciples  laid  down	in  Part  IV  cannot  override	 thefundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution, and	thatArt.  45  cannot  be  applied so as  to	 defeat	 the  rightsconferred  on  minorities under Art. 30(1).  This  is  quitecorrect.  But the question here is, not whether a  directiveprinciple can prevail over a fundamental right, but  whetherthere is a fundamental right in the minorities to have theireducational  institutions recognised by the State, and	whenthere  is nothing express about it in Art. 30(1) and  it  isonly  by  implication  that such a right  is  sought  to  beraised, it is pertinent to ask, can we by implication  infera right which is inconsistent1078with   the   express   provisions   of	 the   Constitution?Considering the question, therefore, both on the language ofArt. 30(1) and on the principle laid down in Art. 45, 1 findmyself unable to accept the contention that the right of theminorities   is	  not  merely	to   establish	 educationalinstitutions of their choice but to have them recognised  bythe  State.   That  must  be  sufficient  to  conclude	thisquestion.But  then it was argued that the policy behind	  Art. 30(1)was to enable minorities to establish and maintain their owninstitutions, and that that policy would be defeated if	 theState is not laid under an obligation to accord	 recognitionto  them.  Let us assume that the question of policy can  begone  into, apart from the language of the  enactment.	 Butwhat is the policy behind Art. 30(1) ? As I conceive it,  itis  that it should not be in the power of the majority in  aState to destroy or to impair the rights of the	 minorities,religious  or linguistic.  That is a policy which  permeatesall  modern Constitutions, and its purpose is  to  encourageindividuals  to	 preserve  and develop	their  own  distinctculture.   It is well-known that during the Middle Ages	 theaccepted notion was that Sovereigns were entitled to  imposetheir own religion on their subjects, and those who did	 notconform to it could be dealt with as traitors.	It was	thisnotion	that  was  responsible	during	the  16th  and	17thCenturies  for numerous wars between nations and  for  civilwars  in the Continent of Europe, and it was  only  latterlythat  it came to be recognised that freedom of	religion  isnot  incompatible with good citizenship and loyalty  to	 theState,	and that all progressive societies must respect	 thereligious  beliefs of their minorities.	 It is this  conceptthat  is  embodied in Arts. 25, 26, 29 and 30.	 Article  25guarantees to persons the right to freely profess,  practiceand propagate religion.	 Article 26 recognises the right  ofreligious denominations to establish and maintain  religiousand  charitable	 institutions.	Article 29(1)  protects	 therights	of sections of citizens to have their  own  distinctlanguage,  script or culture.  Article 30(1) belongs to	 thesame category as Arts. 25, 26 and 29,		      1079and  confers  on minorities, religious	or  linguistic,	 theright  to  establish  and  maintain  their  own	 educationalinstitutions without any interference or hindrance from	 theState.	In other words, the minorities should have the rightto  live, and should be allowed by the State to live,  theirown cultural life as regards religion or language.  That  isthe true scope of the right conferred under Art. 30(1),	 andthe  obligation of the State in relation thereto  is  purelynegative.   It	cannot prohibit the  establishment  of	suchinstitutions,	and  it	 should	 not  interfere	  with	 theadministration of such institutions by the minorities.	Thatright  is not, as I have already pointed out,  infringed  byCl.  (20).   The  right which the minorities  now  claim  issomething  more.   They want not merely	 freedom  to  managetheir  own  affairs, but they demand that the  State  shouldactively   intervene   and   give   to	 their	 educationalinstitutions the imprimatur of State recognition.  That,  inmy opinion, is not within Art. 30(1).  The true intention ofthat  Article is to equip minorities with a  shield  wherebythey could defend themselves against attacks by	 majorities,religious  or linguistic, and not to arm them with  a  swordwhereby	  they	 could	compel	the  majorities	  to   grantconcessions.  It should be noted in this connection that theConstitution  has laid on the State various  obligations  inrelation  to the minorities apart from what is	involved  inArt.  30(1).  Thus, Art. 30(2) provides that a	State  shallnot,   when   it  chooses  to  grant  aid   to	 educationalinstitutions,	 discriminate	against	  institutions	  ofminorities based on language or religion.  Likewise, if	 theState  frames  regulations for	recognition  of	 educationalinstitutions,  it  has to treat all of them  alike,  withoutdiscriminating	against	 any institution on  the  ground  oflanguage  or  religion.	 The result  of	 the  constitutionalprovisions bearing on the question may thus be summed up:(1)The State is under a positive obligation to give  equaltreatment  in  the  matter  of aid  or	recognition  to	 alleducational institutions, including those of the minorities,religious or linguistic.1371080(2)The	State  is under a negative obligation  as  regardsthose  institutions, not to prohibit their establishment  orto interfere with their administration.Clause	20  of	the  Bill  violates  neither  of  these	 twoobligations.  On the other hand, it is the contention of theminorities that must, if accepted, result in  discriminationby the State.  While recognised institutions of the majoritycommunities   will   be	 subject  to   el.   (20),   similarinstitutions  of  minority communities falling	within	Art.30(1)  will not be subject to it.  The form  cannot  collectfees, while the latter can.  This surely is  discrimination.It  may be stated that learned counsel for  the	 minorities,when pressed with the question that on their contention Art.45  must become a dead letter, answered that  the  situationcould  be  met	by  the State  paying  compensation  to	 theminority institutions to make up for the loss of fees.	Thatserves clearly to reveal that what the minorities fight	 foris what has not been granted to them under Art. 30(2) of theConstitution, viz., aid to them on the ground of religion orlanguage.   In	my opinion, there is  no  justification	 forputting	 on  Art. 30(1) a construction which would  put	 theminorities  in	a more favoured position than  the  majoritycommunities.I  have	 so  far discussed the scope of Art.  30(1)  on	 itslanguage and on the principle underlying it.  Coming next tothe  authorities, cited before us, the observations in	Cityof Winnipeg v. Barrett: City of Winnipeg v. Logan (1)  wouldappear to support the contention of the State of Kerala thatCl. (20) does not offend Art. 30(1).  That was a decision ons. 22 of the Manitoba Act, 1870, which is as follows:"  In  and  for	 the  province,	 the  said  legislature	 mayexclusively make laws in relation to education, subject	 andaccording to the following provisions:(1)Nothing in any such law shall prejudicially affect  anyright  or privilege with respect to  denominational  schoolswhich  any class of persons have by law or practice  in	 theprovince at the Union."Now,  the  facts  are  that there  were	 in  Manitoba  deno-minational schools run by Roman Catholics which(1)  [1892] A.C. 445. 4571081were  maintained with fees paid by students and	 donation,,;from the Church.  In 1890, the Provincial Legislature passedthe  Public Schools Act, and it enacted that all  Protestantand Roman Catholic school districts should be subject to theprovisions  of this Act, and that all public schools  shouldbe  free  schools.  A portion of the legislative  grant	 foreducation  was to be allotted to public schools, and it	 wasprovided that any school not conducted according to all	 theprovisions  of the Act or the regulations of the  Departmentof  Education  should not be deemed to be  a  public  schoolwithin the meaning of the Act and was not to be entitled  toparticipate in the grant.  The validity of these  provisionswas  challenged	 by the Roman Catholic institutions  on	 theground that they contravened s. 22 of the Manitoba Act,	 andinfringed the rights and privileges guaranteed therein.	 TheSupreme	 Court	of Canada upheld this contention;  but	thisjudgment was reversed by the Privy Council, and it was	heldthat  the provisions of the Act did not offend s. 22 of	 theManitoba  Act.	Lord Macnagliten delivering the judgment  ofthe Board observed:"  Notwithstanding  the	 Public	 Schools  Act,	1890,  RomanCatholics  and	members	 of every other	 religious  body  inManitoba  are  free  to	 establish  schools  throughout	 theprovince ; they are free to maintain their schools by schoolfees  or voluntary subscriptions; they are free	 to  conducttheir  schools	according  to  their  own  religious  tenetswithout molestation or interference ".In the result, it was held that the Act did not infringe therights of the denominational institutions under s. 22. Theseobservations  appear  to  be very apposite  to	the  presentcontention.    The   position  occupied	 by   the   minorityinstitutions  under Art. 30(1) is not dissimilar to that  ofthe  Roman Catholic schools of Manitoba under s. 22  of	 theAct  of	 1870,	and  the position created  by  Cl.  (20)  isprecisely that which the 1890 Act created in that Province.It  remains to notice the contention advanced by  Mr.  Prittthat the basis on which the arguments of the counsel for theminorities proceeded that students1082who  pass  out	of  unrecognised  institutions	were  at   a,disadvantage in the matter of eligibility to sit at  publicexaminations or to be admitted in the services to the State,was  itself without foundation, and that even if  there	 wasany substantial discrimination in treatment between studentswho pass out of unrecognised schools and those who pass	 outof Government or recognised schools, that was the result  ofprovisions  of	the Education Codes in force in	 the  State,that  it  might	 be  that  those  provisions  are  -bad	  asinfringing Art. 30(1) of the Constitution, but that did	 notaffect the validity of cl. (20) as that was inapplicable  tounrecognised  institutions by virtue of cl. (38), and  that,in consequence, there was nothing in the Bill which could besaid to offend Art. 30(1).  The rules of the Education	Codeare  not  really before us, and they are  not  the  subject-matter of the present reference.  In my view, there is	muchto be said in favour of the contention that if Art. 30(1) isat  all infringed, it is by the rules of the Education	Codeand  not by el. (20).  But it is unnecessary to pursue	thisaspect further, as I consider that even otherwise, the viresof  Cl.	 (20)  is not open to question.	 In  my	 view,	thatClause does not offend Art. 30(1) and is intra vires.I agree that Cls. (14) and (15) must be held to be bad,	 andthe  ground  of	 my decision is this: It  may  be  taken-andindeed it is not disputed-that if the State grants aid to aneducational institution, it must have the power to see	thatthe  institution is properly and efficiently run,  that	 theeducation  imparted therein is of the right  standard,	thatthe teachers possess the requisite qualifications, that	 thefunds  are duly applied for the purpose of  the	 institutionand  the  like.	 In other words, the State must	 have  largepowers	of  regulation	and  of	 control  over	 State-aidededucational  institutions.  These powers must  be  liberallyconstrued,  and the decision of the Legislature as  to	whatthey  should be is not to be lightly interfered with, as  itis presumed to know best the needs of the State, the  natureand  extent of the evils rampant therein and the steps	thatshould	be taken to remedy them.  But the power to  regulatedoes not, in general, comprehend1083the power to prohibit, and the right to control the  affairsof  an institution cannot be exercised so as  to  extinguishit.   Now, Cls. (14) and (15) operate to put an end  to	 theright	of  private  agencies  to  establish  and   maintaineducational institutions and cannot be upheld as within	 thepower  of  the State to regulate or control.  The  State  isundoubtedly  free to stop aid or recognition to a school  ifit  is	mismanaged.   It can, even as  an  interim  measure,arrange in the interests of the students to run that school,pending	 its  making  other arrangements  to  provide  othereducational facilities.	 It can also resume properties whichhad been acquired by the institutions with the aid. of Stategrant.	 But  it cannot itself compulsorily  take  over	 theschool and run it as its own, either on the terms set out inCl.  (14)  or Cl. (15).	 That is not a power  which  springsdirectly  from the grant of aid.  To aid is not to  destroy.Those  clauses would, in my opinion, infringe the  right  toestablish  and maintain institutions, whether such right  isto be founded on Art. 19(1)(g) or Art. 30(1).I  should  add that in Question No. 2, the question  of	 thevalidity of Cl. (20) or Cls. (14) and (15) is not  expresslyreferred for our opinion.  But it is said that the referenceto Cl. 3(5) attracts all the provisions of the Bill, becausethe  establishment of new institutions or schools  is  underthat  Clause subject to the provisions of the Bill  and	 therules  made thereunder.	 I have grave doubts whether on	 theterms  of the reference, we are called upon to	express	 ouropinion	 on the validity of all the provisions of the  Bill.The  reference	is  not	 generally  on	the  vires  of	 theprovisions  of the Bill.  It is limited to the	validity  ofspecified  provisions, Cls. 3(5), 8(3) and 9 to	 13.   Therehas been no satisfactory answer to the question as to why ifit was intended that we should pronounce on the validity  ofall  the provisions of the Bill, Cls. 8(3) and (9)  to	(13)should	have  been specifically	 mentioned.   Moreover,	 thereference is preceded by detailed recitals as to the  doubtswhich had been raised in the mind of the President as to thevalidity  of  certain  provisions,  and	 there	is  no	hinttherein that there was any doubt1381084concerning   the  vires	 of  provisions	 other	than   thoseexpressly mentioned.  If the maxim "Expressum facit  cessaretacitum	 "  can properly be invoked in the  construction  ofinstruments,  it  must a fortiori be so, in  interpreting  adocument  drawn up by the Union Government with	 great	careand  deliberation.  And having regard to the nature  of	 theadvisory  jurisdiction under Art. 143, the reference  shouldbe  construed  narrowly	 rather	 than  broadly.	  But	thisdiscussion is academic, as there have been full arguments onthe  validity of all the provisions, and we  are  expressingour opinion thereon.In  the	 result,  my  answer to	 Question  No.	2  is  that,excepting  Cls. (14) and (15), the other provisions  of	 theBill do not offend Art. 30(1) of the Constitution.As regards schools of the Anglo-Indian Communities, Art. 337provides  for aid being given to them on the conditions	 andto the extent specified therein.  That is outside Art. 30(1)and  independent of it, and I agree with My Lord, the  ChiefJustice, that the provisions of the Bill are, to the  extentthey  affect or interfere with the rights conferred by	thatArticle, bad.Reference answered accordingly.1085