PETITIONER:SANTOSH KUMAR	Vs.RESPONDENT:BHAI MOOL SINGHDATE OF JUDGMENT:05/02/1958BENCH:BOSE, VIVIANBENCH:BOSE, VIVIANDAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  321		  1958 SCR 1211ACT:Negotiable  Instruments--Summary Suit on dishonouyed  cheque-Application  for leave to de fend-Triable issue-Failure  toproduce	 documentary evidence-If renders defence  vague	 andnot  bona  fide-Grant  Of  conditional	leave-Discretion  ofCourt,	 interference  withCode	 of  civil   Procedure,	  0.XXXVII,rr. 2 and 3.HEADNOTE:The  respondent filed a suit against the appellant under  0.xxxvII	of  the Code of Civil Procedure on the	basis  of  acheque	for Rs. 60,000 drawn by the appellant in  favour  ofthe respondent which, on presentation to the Bank, had	beendishonoured.  The appellant applied under r. 3 Of 0.  XXXVIIfor  leave to appear and defend the suit on the ground	thatthe cheque had been given only as a collateral security	 forthe  price of goods supplied, that the goods had  been	paidfor by cash payments and by other cheques and that thereforethe cheque in question had served itsI541212end and was without consideration.  The Court held that	 thedefence	 raised	 a triable issue but that  the	defence	 wasvague and was not bona fide as the appellant had produced noevidence  to prove his assertions and  consequently  grantedleave  to defend the suit on the condition of the  appellantgiving	security  for the suit amount and the costs  of	 thesuit :Held,  that the imposition of the condition was illegal	 andthe appellant was entitled to defend the suit without givingthe security.  The object of the special procedure under  0.XXXVII	of  the	 Code is to see that a	defendant  does	 notunnecessarily  prolong the litigation by  raising  untenableand  frivolous	defences.  The test is to  see	whether	 thedefence raises a real issue and not a sham one, in the sensethat, if the facts alleged by the defendant are established,there would be a good, or even a plausible, defence on thosefacts.	If the Court is satisfied about that, leave must  begiven and given unconditionally.Held,  further,	 that the Court was wrong  in  imposing	 thecondition about giving security on the ground that for	wantof production of documentary evidence the defence was  vagueand not bona fide as the stage of proof can only arise afterleave  to  appeal and defend has been granted.	 Though	 theCourt  is  given a discretion about imposing  conditions  itmust   be  exercised  judicially  and  in  consonance	withprinciples  of	natural	 justice.   If	the  discretion	  isexercised arbitrarily, or is based on a misunderstanding  ofthe principles that govern 'its exercise, then	interferenceis  called  for	 if there has been a  resultant	 failure  ofjustice.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 96 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedDecember 17, 1956, of the Punjab High Court (Circuit  Bench)at  Delhi in Civil Misc.  No. 896-D of 1956, arising out  ofthe judgment and order dated November 1, 1956, of the  Courtof  Commercial Subordinate Judge, Delhi in Suit No.  264  of1956 under Order XXXVII, C.P.C.]A.  V.	  Vishwanatha  Sastri  'and  Naunit  Lal,  for	 theappellant.Bakhshi	  Gurcharan   Singh  and  Sardar  Singh,   for	 therespondent.1958.	February 5. The following Judgment of the Court	 wasdelivered byBOSE  J.-The  defendants,  Santosh Kumar  and  the  NorthernGeneral Agencies, were granted special leave to appeal.	 Theplaintiff filed the suit out of which the1213appeal arises on the basis of a cheque for Rs. 60,000  drawnby  the defendants in favour of the plaintiff and which,  onpresentation to the Bank, was dishonoured.The   suit  was	 filed	in  the	 Court	of  the	  CommercialSubordinate  Judge,  Delhi, under 0. XXXVII of the  Code  ofCivil Procedure.The defendants applied for leave to defend the suit under r.3 of that Order.The learned trial Judge held that"  the	defence raised by the defendants  raises  a  triableissue," but he went on to hold that the defendants"  have	 not placed anything on the file to  show  that	 thedefence was a bona fide one."Accordingly, he permitted the defendantsto  appear  and defend the suit on the	condition  of  theirgiving	security  to the extent of the suit amount  and	 thecosts of the suit."The  defendants applied for a review but failed.  They	thenapplied	 under	Art. 227 of the Constitution  to  the  DelhiCircuit Bench of the Punjab High Court and failed again.  Asa result, they applied here under Art. 136 and were  grantedspecial leave.At  first blush, 0. XXXVII, r. 2(2), appears drastically  tocurtail	 a litigant's normal rights in a Court	of  justice,namely to appear and defend himself as of right, if and whensued,  because it says that when a suit is instituted  on  abill  of  exchange,  hundi or a promissory  note  under	 theprovisions  of sub-rule (1) "..... the defendant  shall	 notappear	or  defend the suit unless he obtains leave  from  ajudge as hereinafter provided so to appear and defend."But the rigour of that is softened by r. 3(1) which makes itobligatory  on the Court to grant leave when the  conditionsset out there are fulfilled.  Clause (1) runs-"  The Court shall, upon application by the defendant,	giveleave  to  appear and to defend the  suit,  upon  affidavitswhich disclose such facts as would make it incumbent on	 theholder	to prove consideration, or such other facts  as	 theCourt may deem sufficient to support the application."1214But  no sooner is the wide discretion given to the Court  inr.  2(2) narrowed down by r. 3(1) than it is again  enlargedin another direction by r. 3(2) which saysthat" Leave to defend may be given unconditionally or subject tosuch  terms  as	 to payment  into  Court,  giving  security,framing	 and  recording	 issues or otherwise  as  the  Courtthinks fit."The  learned  counsel  for the	plaintiff  argues  that	 thediscretion so conferred by r. 3(2) is unfettered and that asthe  discretion	 has  been exercised by	 the  learned  trialJudge,	no  appeal can lie against it unless there  is	a  "grave  miscarriage of justice or flagrant violation of	law"and he quotes D. N. Banerji v. P.R. Mukherjee (1) and WaryamSingh v. Amarnath (2).Now  what we are examining here are laws of procedure.	 Thespirit	in  which  questions  about  procedure	are  to	  beapproached  and the manner in which rules relating  to	themare  to	 be interpreted are laid down in Sangrayn  Singh  v.Election Tribunal, Kotah, BhureyLal Baya (1)."  Now a code of procedure must be regarded as such.  It  isprocedure,  something  designed to  facilitate	justice	 andfurther	 its ends; not a penal enactment for punishment	 andpenalties;  not	 a, thing designed to trip people  up.	 Tootechnical a construction of sections that leaves no room forreasonable elasticity of interpretation should therefore  beguarded	 against  (provided always that justice is  done  toboth sides) lest the very means designed for the furtheranceof justice be used to frustrate it.Next,  there must be ever present to the mind the fact	thatour laws of procedure are grounded on a principle of naturaljustice	 which	requires that men should  not  be  condemnedunheard,  that decisions should not be reached behind  theirbacks, that proceedings that affect their lives and propertyshould	not continue in their absence and that	they  shouldnot  be	 precluded from participating in them.	 Of  course,there must be exceptions and where they are clearly defined(1) [1953[ S.C.R. 302, 305.	  (2) [1954] S.C.R. 565.(3)[1955] 2 S.C.R. 1, 8 9.			    1215they  must be given effect to.	But taken by and large,	 andsubject	 to  that proviso, our laws of procedure  should  beconstrued,  wherever  that is reasonably  possible,  in	 thelight of that principle."Applied	 to the present case, these observations  mean	thatthough the Court is given a discretion it must be  exercisedalong judicial lines, and that in turn means, in  consonancewith  the  principles  of  natural  justice  that  form	 thefoundations  of our laws.  Those principles, so far as	theytouch the present matter, are well known and have been	laiddown and followed in numerous cases.The  decision most frequently referred to is a	decision  ofthe House of Lords in England where a similar rule prevails.It  is Jacobs v. Booth's Distillery Company  (1).   Judgmentwas  delivered in 1901.	 Their Lordships said that  wheneverthe deferce raises a " triable issue", leave must be  given,and  later cases say that when that is the case it  must  begiven unconditionally, otherwise the leave may be  illusory.See,  for  example, Powszechny Bank Zwiazkowy W.  Polsce  v.Paros  (2), in England and Sundaram Chettiar v. Valli  Ammal(3)  in India.	Among other cases that adopt the  "  triableissue  "  test	are Kiranmoyee Dassi v.	 J.  Chatterjee	 andGopala Rao v. Subba Rao (5).The  learned counsel for the plaintiff-respondent relied  onGopala	Rao v. Subba Rao (5), Manohar Lal v. Nanhe Mal	(6),and Shib Karan Das v. Mohammed Sadiq (7).  All that we	needsay  about them is that if the Court is of opinion that	 thedefence is not bona fide, then it can impose conditions	 andis not tied down to refusing leave to defend.  We agree withVaradachariar J. in the Madras case that the Court has	thisthird  course open to it in a suitable case.  But it  cannotreach  the  conclusion	that the defence is  not  bona	fidearbitrarily.   It  is as much bound by	judicial  rules	 andjudicial procedure in reaching a conclusion of this kind  asin any other matter.  It is unnecessary(1) (1901) 85 L.T. 262.		  (2) [1932] 2 K.B. 353.(3) (1935) 1 L.R. 58 Mad. 116.	 (4) (1945) 49 C.W.N. 246.(5) A.I.R. (1936) Mad.246.(6) A.I.R. 1938 Lah. 548.	 (7) A.I.R. 1936 Lah. 584.12l6no examine the facts of those cases because they are not  inappeal before us.  We are only concerned with the principle.It is always undesirable, and indeed impossible, to lay downhard and fast rules in matters that affect discretion.	 Butit  is	necessary  to understand the reason  for  a  specialprocedure  of this kind in order that the discretion may  beproperly  exercised.  The object is explained in Kesavan  v.South  Indian  Bank  Ltd. (1), and is  examined	 in  greaterdetail in Sundaram Chettiar v. Valli Ammal (supra), to whichwe have just referred.	Taken by and large, the object is tosee  that the defendant does not unnecessarily	prolong	 thelitigation and prevent the plaintiff from obtaining an earlydecree	by  raising untenable and frivolous  defences  in  aclass  of cases where speedy decisions are desirable in	 theinterests of trade and commerce.  In general, therefore, thetest  is to see whether the defence raises a real issue	 andnot  a sham one, in the sense that, if the facts alleged  bythe  defendant	are established, there would be a  good,  oreven a plausible, defence on those facts.Now,  what  is the position here?  The	defendants  admittedexecution  of the cheque but pleaded that it was only  givenas  collateral	security for the price of  goods  which	 theplaintiff supplied to the defendants.  They said that  thosegoods were paid for by cash payments made from time to	timeand  by other cheques and that therefore the cheque in	suithad served its end and should now be returned.	They set outthe  exact dates on which, according to them,  the  paymentshad been made and gave the numbers of the cheques.This  at  once raised an issue of fact, the truth  and	goodfaith  of  which  could only be tested	by  going  into	 theevidence  and,	as we have pointed out,	 the  learned  trialJudge held that this defence did raise a triable issue.	 Buthe held that it was not enough for the defendants to back uptheir  assertions with an affidavit; they should  also	haveproduced  writings  and documents which they  said  were  intheir possession(1)  I.L.R. 1950 Mad. 251.1217and  which  they asserted would prove that the	cheques	 andpayments referred to in their defence were given in  paymentof the cheque in suit; and he said-"  In  the absence of those documents, the  defence  of	 thedefendants  seems  to  be  vague  consisting  of  indefiniteassertions.................This  is  a surprising conclusion.  The facts given  in	 theaffidavit  are clear and precise, the defence  could  hardlyhave  been  clearer.   We find it difficult  to	 see  how  adefence	 that,	on the face of it, is  clear  becomes  vaguesimply	because the evidence by which it is to be proved  isnot brought on file at the time the defence is put in.The learned Judge has failed to see that the stage of  proofcan only come after the defendant has been allowed to  enteran  appearance and defend the suit, and that the  nature  ofthe  defence  has  to be determined at	the  time  when	 theaffidavit  is put in.  At that stage all that the Court	 hasto  determine  is  whether " if the  facts  alleged  by	 thedefendant are duly proved " they will afford a good, or evena  plausible,  answer to the plaintiff's  claim.   Once	 theCourt is satisfied about that, leave cannot be withheld	 andno  question about imposing conditions can arise;  and	onceleave is granted, the normal procedure of a suit, so far  asevidence and proof go, obtains.The  learned High Court Judge is also in error	in  thinkingthat  even  when  the  defence is  a  good  and	 valid	one,conditions can be imposed.  As we have explained, the  powerto impose conditions is only there to ensure that there willbe  a speedy trial.  If there is reason to believe that	 thedefendant  is trying to prolong the litigation and  evade  aspeedy	trial,	then conditions can be	imposed.   But	thatconclusion  cannot be reached simply because  the  defendantdoes not adduce his evidence even before he is told that  hemay defend the action.We  do	not  wish to throw doubt on  those  decisions  whichdecide	that  ordinarily an appeal will not  be	 entertainedagainst	 an exercise of discretion that has  been  exercisedalong sound judicial lines.  But if the1218discretion  is exercised arbitrarily, or is based on a	mis-understanding  of the principles that govern  its  exercise,then  interference  is	called	for  if	 there	has  been  aresultant  failure  of justice.	 As we have said,  the	onlyground	given  for concluding that the defence is  not	bonaflde  is  that the defendant did not  prove  his  assertionsbefore	he was allowed to put in his defence ; and there  isan obvious failure of justice if judgment is entered againsta  man who, if he is allowed to prove his case,	 cannot	 butsucceed.  Accordingly, interference is called for here.The appeal is allowed.	We set aside the orders of the	HighCourt and the learned trial Judge and remand the case to thefirst	Court  for  trial  of  the  issues  raised  by	 thedefendants.  The costs of the appellants in this Court	willbe paid by the respondent who has failed here.Appeal allowed.