PETITIONER:P.C. JOSHI AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESHDATE OF JUDGMENT:25/10/1960BENCH:SHAH, J.C.BENCH:SHAH, J.C.DAS, S.K.CITATION: 1961 AIR  387		  1961 SCR  (2)	 63ACT:Criminal  Trial--Defamation of Public servant in respect  ofpublic	function--Complaint before Sessions Judge by  PublicProsecutor--If	required to be signed by the Public  servantalso--Code  of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (V of 1898),  ss.198and 198-B.HEADNOTE:The  Public  Prosecutor, Kanpur, filed a  complaint  in	 theCourt  of  Session,  Kanpur, charging  the  appellants	withhaving published a news item which was false and  defamatoryof  the	 Chief	Minister of Uttar  Pradesh.   The  complaintcomplied with the requirements of s. 198-B, Code of CriminalProcedure.   The  appellants contended	that  the  complaintshould have complied with the requirements of s. 198 of	 theCode also and, as it was64not signed by the Chief Minister, the Sessions judge had  nojurisdiction to entertain it.Held, that it was not necessary for the Chief Minister	alsoto  sign the complaint filed by the Public Prosecutor.	 Thenonobstante  clause " notwithstanding anything contained  inthis Code " in sub-s. (1) of s. 198-B excludes the operationof  the other provisions of the Code relating to  initiationand  trial of the offence of defamation, including  s.	198.Sub-section  (13)  of  s.  198-B  which	 provides  that	 theprovisions  of s. 198-B shall be in addition to and  not  inderogation  of	s.  198 merely preserves the  right  of	 theperson	defamed to file a complaint under s. 198.   The	 twosections provide alternative remedies.	The provisions in s.198-B  relating to the award of compensation to the  accusedin  case of false and frivolous or vexatious  accusation  donot  affect  this  conclusion.	Normally it  is	 the  publicservant who moves the Government for taking proceedings	 andunder  subs. (5) he is required to be examined as a  witnessto  support the prosecution, and it cannot be said  that  hehas no concern with the lodging of a complaint under s. 198-B.C.   B. L. Bhatnagar v. The State, A.I.R. 1958 Bom. 196 andR.   Sankar   v.  The  State,  I.L.R.  (1959)  Kerala	195,disapproved.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 130  of1960.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedApril  28,  1960, of the Allahabad High	 Court	in  CriminalRevision No. 1865 of 1959.N.   C. Chatterjee, D. P. Singh, T. S. Venkataraman, R.	  K.Garg,	S.  C.	Agarwal	 and  M.  K.  Ramamurthi,  for	 theappellants.G.  S.	Pathak,	 O.  C.	 Mathur	 and  C.  P.  Lal,  for	 therespondent.1960.  October 25.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbySHAH J.-Appellant No. 1 is the editor and appellant No. 2 isthe  printer  and publisher of the ',New  Age  "-an  EnglishWeekly news sheet published in Delhi.  On May 15, 1959,	 thePublic Prosecutor, Kanpur, filed a complaint in the Court ofSession,  Kanpur, against the appellants charging them	withhaving published a news item in the issue of the " New Age "dated  November 16, 1958, knowing or having good reasons  tobelieve	 the  same to be false and defamatory of  the  ChiefMinister  of the State of Uttar Pradesh " in order  to	harmhis reputation in the eyes of65the  public  in	 general  and  among  his  acquaintances  inparticular  ". With this complaint was filed an order  underthe  signature	of the Home Secretary to the  Government  ofUttar  Pradesh	sanctioning  under  a.	198B(3)(b)  of	 theCriminal  Procedure  Code the filing of a complaint  by	 thePublic Prosecutor for an offence under s. 500, Indian  PenalCode,  against	the appellants in respect of the  news	itempublished  on  November	 16,  1958,  under  the	 caption   "Explosive situation in Kanpur ". The learned Sessions  Judgetook cognisance of the complaint.  After six witnesses	wereexamined  on behalf of the prosecution, he framed  a  chargeagainst the appellants for the offence of defamation in thatthey  had  published  the  news item  under  the  caption  "Explosive situation in Kanpur " intending to harm or knowingthat  they were likely to harm the reputation of  the  ChiefMinister  of Uttar Pradesh.  The appellants then applied  tothe  High Court of Judicature at Allahabad praying that	 theorder  of  the	Court of Session framing a  charge  for	 theoffence	 of  defamation be set aside.  They  submitted	thatthere  was  no	evidence  that the  Home  Secretary  to	 theGovernment  of	Uttar Pradesh had applied his  mind  to	 thefacts  of  the case before sanctioning	prosecution  of	 theappellants;  that  in  any event, the  publication  was	 notdefamatory  of the Chief Minister in respect of his  conductin  the discharge of his duties as Chief Minister  and	thatthe complaint filed by the Public Prosecutor not having beensigned	by the Chief Minister who was the aggrieved  person,the  Sessions  Judge had no jurisdiction  to  entertain	 thecomplaint.   The  High Court rejected  all  the	 contentionsraised	by the appellants.  Against the order rejecting	 thecontentions,  this appeal with special leave under Art.	 136of the Constitution is preferred by the appellants.We  may state that the observations made by the	 High  Courtthat  whether the publication of the news item in the  issueof  the	 "I  New Age " dated November 16,  1958,  under	 thecaption " Explosive situation in Kanpur " was defamatory  ofthe  Chief  Minister  in  respect  of  his  conduct  in	 thedischarge of his duties66deciding  the application in revision submitted to them	 andwere  not  intended  to record a final decision	 as  to	 thedefamatory  character of that publication.  It will  be	 forthe Trial Judge when the case is tried before him to  arriveat  a conclusion on the materials placed before him  whetherthe  publication  is  defamatory of the	 Chief	Minister  inrespect	 of  his  conduct in the  discharge  of	 his  publicfunctions.The  plea  that	 the  sanction	was  accorded  by  the	HomeSecretary  to the filing of the complaint  without  applyinghis mind is without substance.	Siddiqi, an assistant in theHome  Department  to the Government of	Uttar  Pradesh,	 hasdeposed	 that he bad received the papers in connection	withthe sanction for the prosecution of the two appellants	fromthe Superintendent, Rome Department, with " notings ",	thathe  had	 taken	the  " notings "  and  the  relevant  papersincluding the offending issue to the Deputy Secretary,	thatthe Deputy Secretary had also made his note on those papers,and that thereafter he-the witness had taken those papers toM. G. Kaul, Home Secretary, who had perused the " notings  "and the note of the Deputy Secretary as also the article  inquestion and after looking into the papers had approved	 thedraft sanction.It is not disputed that the Home Secretary was authorised tosanction  a  complaint for defamation of a Minister  of	 theGovernment of Uttar Pradesh.  The evidence clearly disclosesthat  the  Home Secretary had applied his mind	to  all	 thematerial facts before him and had then granted the sanction.Mere  production of a document which sets out the  names  ofthe  persons  to  be prosecuted and the	 provisions  of	 thestatute	 alleged to be contravened, and purporting  to	bearthe signature of an officer competent to grant the  sanctionwhere such sanction is a condition precedent to the exerciseof jurisdiction does not invest the court with	jurisdictionto  try	 the  offence.	If the facts  which  constitute	 thecharge do not appear on the face of the sanction, it must beestablished by hose facts were laced67before	the  authority competent to grant the  sanction	 andthat  the authority applied his mind to those  facts  beforegiving	 sanction.    In  the  present	 case,	 the   factsconstituting the charge appear on the face of the sanction ;and  evidence has also been led that the facts	were  placedbefore	 the  sanctioning  authority,  that  the   authorityconsidered the facts and sanctioned the prosecution.Section	 198B  which deals with a certain  category  of	 theoffences of defamation of high dignitaries of the State, andof Ministers and public servants in respect of their conductin the discharge of public functions was incorporated in theCode  by Act XVI of 1955.  Prior to the incorporation of  s.198B, the only condition precedent to the entertainment of acomplaint of defamation by a court competent in that  behalfwas  prescribed	 by  s. 198, viz., that there had  to  be  acomplaint  by  the person aggrieved before  the	 court	tookcognisance of that offence.  By s. 198B, several  conditionsprecedent  to  the  trial of offences  falling	within	thatsection are prescribed.	 The material clauses of s. 198B aresub-ss.	 (1), (3) and (4). (1):- " notwithstanding  anythingcontained  in  this  Code, when any  offence  falling  underChapter	 XXI  of  the Indian Penal Code (Act  XLV  of  1860)(other	than the offence of defamation by spoken  words)  isalleged to have been committed against the President or	 theVice-President, or the Governor or Rajpramukh of a State, ora   Minister  or  any  other  public  servant  employed	  inconnection  with the affairs of the Union or of a State,  inrespect	 of  his  conduct in the  discharge  of	 his  publicfunctions,  a Court of Session may take cognisance  of	suchoffence,  without  the	accused being committed	 to  it	 fortrial,	upon  a	 complaint in writing  made  by	 the  PublicProsecutor.(3):-No	 complaint  under sub-s. (1) shall be  made  by	 thePublic Prosecutor except with the previous sanction,-(a)in the case of the President or the Vice-President or theGovernor  of  a State, of any Secretary	 to  the  Governmentauthorised by him in this behalf68(b)  in the case of a Minister of the Central Government  orof  a State Government, of the Secretary to the	 Council  ofMinisters,  if	any, or of any Secretary to  the  Governmentauthorised  in this behalf by the Government concerned;	 (c)in  the	 case  of  any	other  public  servant	employed  inconnection  with the affairs of the Union or of a State,  ofthe Government concerned.(4)  :-No  Court  of  Session shall take  cognisance  of  anoffence under sub-s. (1) unless the complaint is made withinsix months from the date on which the offence is alleged  tohave been committed.This section provides for a special procedure for the  trialof the offence of defamation of certain specified classes ofpersons.  The conditions necessary for the applicability  ofsub-s. (1) of s. 198B are:(1)  that the defamation is not by spoken words;(2)  that  the	offence is alleged to  have  been  committedagainst	 the  President,  or  the  Vice-President,  or	 theGovernor  or  Rajpramukh of a State, or a  Minister  or	 anyother public servant employed in connection with the affairsof the Union or of a State;(3)  that the defamation is in respect of the person defamedin the discharge of his public functions;(4)  that  a  complaint	 is made in writing  by	 the  PublicProsecutor;(5)  that  the	complaint is made by the  Public  Prosecutorwith  the previous sanction of the authorities specified  insub-s. (3); and(6)  that  the complaint is made within six months from	 thedate on which the offence is committed.The Court of Session may entertain a complaint of defamationof the high dignitaries and of Ministers and public servantsin respect of their conduct in the discharge of their publicfunctions  only	 if  these conditions  exist.	Section	 198require,%  that a complaint for defamation may be  initiatedby  the	 person	 aggrieved and no period  of  limitation  isprescribed  in	that behalf.  Such a complaint can  only  beentertained by a Magistrate of the First Class.	 But s. 198-B  in the larger public interest, has made a departure	fromthat rule; the accusation is to be entertained not by a69Magistrate, but by the Court of Session without a  committalwithin six months of the date of the offence on a  complaintin    writing	by   the   Public   Prosecutor	 with	 theprevious  sanction  of	the specified  authorities.   It  ismanifest that by the non-obstante clause, "  notwithstandinganything  contained  in	 this  Code "  in  sub.s.  (1),	 theoperation of diverse provisions of the Code relating to	 theinitiation  and	 trial	of  the	 offence  of  defamation  isexcluded and prima facie s. 198 is one of those	 provisions.It is however urged on behalf of the appellants that  sub-s.(13)  of s. 198-B makes the provisions of s. 198  applicableto  a  complaint for defamation of persons specified  in  s.198-B(1)  and  provides that cognisance of  the	 offence  ofdefamation  cannot  be	taken  by  a  court  except  upon  acomplaint  by  the  person aggrieved,  and  that  the  ChiefMinister of Uttar Pradesh alleged to be the party  aggrievednot  having  signed  the complaint  the	 Court	of  Session,Kanpur,	 had  no  jurisdiction to  take	 cognisance  of	 thecomplaint.  Sub-section (13) provides that " the  provisionsof  this  section  shall  be in	 addition  to,	and  not  inderogation  of,	 those of s. 198 ". In	our  judgment,	thisclause is enacted with a view to state ex abundanti  cautelathat  the  right of a party aggrieved by  publication  of  adefamatory  statement  to  proceed  under  s.  198  is	 notderogated by the enactment of s. 198-B.	 The expressions,  "in addition to " and " not in derogation of " mean the	samething-that  s. 198-B is an additional provision and  is	 notintended  to take away the right of a person aggrieved	evenif he belongs to the specified classes and the offence is inrespect	 of  his  conduct in the  discharge  of	 his  publicfunctions, to file a complaint in the manner provided by  s.198.   "  Derogation  " means,	taking	away,  lessening  orimpairing  the	authority,  position  or  dignity,  and	 thecontext	 in in which sub-s. (13) occurs clearly	 shows	thatthe provisions of s. 198-B do not impair the remedy providedby  s.	198.  It means that by s. 198-B the right  which  anaggrieved person has to file a complaint before a Magistrateunder  s.  198 for the offence of defamation,  even  if	 theaggrieved  person belongs to the specified classes  and	 thedefamation70is in respect of his conduct in the discharge of his  publicfunctions, is not taken away or impaired.  If sub-s. (13) beconstrued  as meaning that the provisions of s. 198B are  tobe  read  as  supplementary to those of	 s.  198,  the	non-obstante  clause with which sub-s. (1) of s. 198B  commencesis  rendered wholly sterile, and unless the context  compelssuch  an interpretation, the court will not be justified  inadopting it.  There is again inherent indication in ss.	 198and  198B,  which  supports the view that s.  198B  was	 notintended to be supplementary to s. 198, but was intended  toprovide	 an alternative remedy in the case of defamation  ofpersons set out in that section.  The expression " complaint"  as  defined	in s. 4, cl. (h) of the	 Code  means  "	 theallegation made orally or in writing to a Magistrate with  aview to his taking action under this Code that some  person,whether known or unknown, has committed an offence..........Every  complaint  of  an  offence  has	to be  made  to	 aMagistrate competent to take cognisance thereof and not to aCourt  of  Session.  A Court of Session under  the  Code  ofCriminal Procedure unless otherwise expressly provided,	 is'not  competent to entertain a complaint; it can only  try  acriminal case committed to it.	The expression	,,complaint"in s. 198 is manifestly used in the meaning as defined by s.4(h).	Even  a superficial examination	 of  the  contentionraised by the appellants reveals that if effect be given  toit,  the  utmost confusion would result in working  out	 theprovisions  of the Code.  If beside the complaint  filed  bythe  Public Prosecutor under s. 198B, there must also  be  acomplaint   by	the  person  aggrieved,	 two  courts   wouldsimultaneously be seized of two distinct complaints for	 thesame offence.  The complaint by the Public Prosecutor  unders.  198B would undoubtedly lie, in the Court of Session	 andthe  complaint	under  s. 198 would lie in the	court  of  aMagistrate,  because it is a Magistrate who alone  can	takecognisance  of	the  offence of	 defamation  under  s.	198.Thereafter,  the  complaint  under s. 198  may	have  to  becommitted  to the Court of Session by the Magistrate and  itis only after the71compliant  filed  by  the Public Prosecutor,  the  case	 mayproceed.   The Legislature could not have intended  that  inrespect of the same offence, there should be two complaints,one  in the Court of Session and another in the court  of  aMagistrate-and	 either	 both  should  be  tried,   or	 theproceedings should be consolidated after committal.Reliance was placed on behalf of the appellants upon sub-ss.(6)  to	 11  of	 s. 198B which	provide	 for  the  award  ofcompensation to the person accused if the court is satisfiedthat  the  accusation  is  false  and  either  frivolous  orvexatious,  and it was submitted that the Legislature  couldnot have intended that a person who was not the	 complainantand who was not directly concerned with the proceedings	 maystill  be  required  if	 so ordered  by	 the  court  to	 paycompensation.	But sub-s. (5) which provides that a  personagainst	 whom the offence is alleged to have been  committedshall, unless the court for reasons to be recorded otherwisedirects,  be  examined	as a witness  for  the	prosecution,clearly	 indicates that the question whether  the  complaintwas  false and either frivolous or vexatious may fall to  bedetermined  only  if the person complaining  to	 be  defamedactively  supports  the complaint.  It cannot  therefore  besaid  that s. 198B provides for compensation  being  awardedagainst a person who is not concerned with the complaint.Section 198B is enacted to provide machinery for vindicatingthe  conduct  of  high	dignitaries,  Ministers	 and  publicservants  when they are exposed to defamatory attacks.	 Thesection	 contemplates  the institution	of  proceedings	 fordefamation  of	two different classes of persons,  (1)	highdignitaries  like  the President,  the	Vice-President,	 theGovernors  and	Rajpramukhs  and (2)  Ministers	 and  publicservants. it is not disputed that a provision which  enablesa  prosecution	to be launched by the State,  and  at  Stateexpense for defamation of members of the first class, havingregard	to  their status in public  life,  is  pre-eminentlydesigned  in the public interest, and it would	be  entirelyappropriate  that  any	question  of  awarding	compensationshould be raised, even if the complaint for defamation72be found to be false and frivolous or vexatious.  There	 canbe  no	doubt  that  in a democratic set  up,  in  order  tomaintain  purity  of public  behaviour	and  administration,charges	 of improper conduct against persons in	 the  secondclass, in so far as such charges relate to the discharge  oftheir  public functions should be investigated.	 It is	alsoin the public interest that in vindicating his character  orconduct, the person defamed should not ordinarily be  calledupon  to bear the burden of what may turn out  an  expensiveand  long  drawn  out proceeding, nor  for  obvious  reasonsshould	he  have  control  over	 the  proceeding.   In	 thevindication  of	 the  character	 or  conduct  of  a  privateindividual  who	 is  defamed, the  State  is  primarily	 notconcerned: the party aggrieved may, if he is so minded, takeproceedings for obtaining relief.  But in the  investigationof defamatory charges against Ministers and public  servantsin the discharge of their public functions, the State is  asvitally	  concerned   as  the	individual   defamed.	 TheLegislature has therefore authorised the State to take	uponitself	the  power  in appropriate cases  to  prosecute	 theoffenders.  But lest this procedure be abused, provision hasbeen made for the examination of the person defamed and	 forawarding  against him compensation if it be found  that	 thecomplaint was false and frivolous or vexatious.	 Normally, aMinister  or  a	 public servant defamed in  respect  of	 hisconduct	 in  the  discharge of his  public  functions  wouldhimself	 move  the Government under which he  functions	 fortaking proceedings for vindicating his character or conduct.The  complaint	eo  nomine  in	cases  under  s.  198B,	  isundoubtedly  the Public Prosecutor, but the  complaint	may,when  the person defamed is a Minister or a public  servant,properly  be  regarded	as filed at  the  instance  of	suchMinister  or public servant.  He has in any case to  supportthe  accusation by evidence, and his conduct is	 exposed  tojudicial  scrutiny.  In this context, it would be  difficultto  hold that a person who has either been  instrumental  inthe  initiation	 of  a complaint, or in	 any  event  has  tosupport it by his evidence, has no concern with the  lodgingof the complaint.  The court73would  obviously award compensation only if it is  satisfiedthat the claim made by the person posing to be aggrieved  isfalse and either frivolous or vexatious.Section 198B does not provide that before taking  cognisanceof a complaint, the complaint shall be signed by any  personother than the Public Prosecutor.  In terms, it contemplatesa  complaint in writing by the Public Prosecutor and  of  noone  else and it would be an unwarranted addition to  sub-s.(1)  of the words " and also by the person aggrieved  "	 ifthe  contention urged on behalf of the appellants  were	 ac-cepted.	  The Legislature not having chosen to provide	thatthe complaint of the Public Prosecutor shall also be  signedby  the	 person aggrieved, we will not be justified  in	 theabsence of compelling reasons to so hold.The  observation  made by Mr. Justice Bavdekar in C.  B.  L.Bhatnagar  v.  The State (1) " What  s.	 198B(13)  .........means...... is that any complaint which may be made under s.198B must also satisy the provisions of s. 198, that is, thecomplaint will have to be made both by the person aggrieved,and  by	 the Public Prosecutor ", and by Mr.  Justice  RamanNayar  in R. Sanker v. The State (2)  that a complaint by  aperson	aggrieved  is not dispensed with even in  regard  tocases  falling	under  s. 198B, do  not,  in  our  judgment,correctly interpret sub.s. (13) of s. 198B.In  the	 view  taken by us, this appeal	 must  fail  and  isdismissed.Appeal dismissed.(1) A.I.R. 1958 Bom. 196.(2) 1.L.R. (1959) Kerala 195-74