PETITIONER:ANANT GOPAL SHEOREY	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:22/05/1958BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1958 AIR  915		  1959 SCR  919ACT:Criminal  trial-Amendment  in procedure during	pendency  oftrial-If  retrospective-Code  of Criminal  Procedure  (V  of1898), S. 342 A-Criminal Procedure Code (Amendment) Act	 (26of 1955),s. 116.HEADNOTE:A  complaint  was  filed against the  appellant	 on  January13,1953, and the Special Magistrate trying him commenced therecording of evidence on July 4, 955.  During the trial	 theCriminal  Procedure  Code (Amendment) Act (26 of  955)	cameinto force on January 2, 1956, which introduced s. 342 A  inthe  Code  of  Criminal Procedure.  The	 appellant  made  anapplication  to the Magistrate claiming the right to  appearas a witness on his own behalf under s. 342 A in disproof ofthe  charges made against him.	The Magistrate rejected	 theapplication on the ground that S. 342 A could not be appliedto  pending  proceedings  which would be  according  to	 theprocedure laid down in the unamended Code:Held, that on a plain construction of s. ii6 of the amendingAct  which provided for procedure to be followed in  pendingcases S. 342 A was clearly applicable in such cases.   Underthe  general  law  also	 a  change  in	procedure   operatesretrospectively.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 178  of1957.117920Appeal	by special leave from the order dated May 28,  1956,of the former Nagpur High Court in Criminal Revision No. 150of 1956 arising out of the order dated February 2, 1956,  ofShri K. L. Pandey, Special Magistrate at Nagpur in  CriminalCase No. I of 1955.R.   Patnaik, for the appellant.S.   N. Bindra and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1958.  May 22.	The Judgment of the Court was delivered byKAPUR J.-This is an appeal against the judgment and order ofthe  High  Court of Nagpur confirming the  decision  of	 theSpecial	 Magistrate  disallowing  the  application  of	 theappellant to give evidence as a witness under s. 342A of theCriminal Procedure Code.The Advocate-General of Madhya Pradesh, on January 13, 1953,filed  a  complaint against the appellant and  three  othersunder  s.  282 of the Indian Companies Act and ss.  465	 and477A of the Indian Penal Code.	The proceedings commenced in1954  before  a Magistrate but on May 18,  1955,  they	weretransferred  to	 a  Special  Magistrate	 who  commenced	 therecording of evidence on July 4, 1955.	On August 12,  1955,the  Criminal  Procedure Code (Amendment) Act (26  of  1955)received the assent of the President and came into force  onJanuary 2, 1956.  In this judgment it will be referred to asthe  Amending Act and the Code of Criminal Procedure as	 theCode.	 On  January  14,  1956,  the  appellant   made	  anapplication  to the Magistrate claiming the right to  appearas a witness on his own behalf under s. 342A of the  amendedCode  "in  disproof of the charges made against him  ".	 Hisapplication  was  dismissed and so was his revision  to	 theHigh Court of Nagpur which held:"  While it must be conceded that the wording of clause	 (c)as also the other clauses of section 116 of the amending Actcould have been put in simpler and more direct language, itsingenuous  circumlocution  cannot be allowed to	 cloak.	 itstrue  meaning  or  to  permit  the  construction  which	 theapplicant seeks to921put upon it.  The language used doe,-, not justify hold	 ingthat  when the statute says " this Act it means only "	someof the provisions of this Act Thus the High Court was of theopinion	 that  the proceedings pending	before	the  SpecialMagistrate would be according to the procedure laid down  inthe  unamended	Code and the appellant could  not  thereforeappear as a witness under s. 342A of the amended Code.According to the provisions of the unamedded Code an accusedperson could not appear as a witness in his defence althoughfor  the  purpose of enabling him to  explain  circumstancesappearing  in the evidence against him the Court  could	 putsuch  questions as it considered necessary.  Section 118  ofthe  Evidence  Act deals with persons who are  competent  totestify as witnesses but in view of s. 342 of the  unamendedCode no accused person could appear as a witness and  there-fore s. 118 was inapplicable to such persons.  Article 20(3)of  the Constitution provides that no person accused  of  anoffence	 shall be compelled to be a witness against  himselfand  s.	 342A  was inserted into the Code by s.	 61  of	 theamending Act.  It provides:-S.342A	"  Any	person accused of  an  offence	before	aCriminal Court shall be a competent witness for the  defenceand  may  give evidence on oath in disproof of	the  chargesmade against him or any person charged together with him  atthe same trial:Provided that(a)  he shall not be called as a witness except onhis own request in writing; or(b)  his failure to give evidence shall not be madethe  subject  of any comment by any of the  parties  or	 theCourt  to give rise to any presumption against	him:self  orany person charged together with him at the same trial."Thus the law was amended and the accused person has become acompetent witness for the defence but he cannot be compelledto be a witness and cannot be called as a witness except  athis own request in writing and his failure to give  evidencecannot be922made  the  subject matter of comment by the parties  or	 theCourt.The  question  that  arises for decision  is  whether  to  apending prosecution the provisions of the amended Code	havebecome	applicable.  There is no controversy on the  generalprinciples  applicable to the case.  No person has a  vestedright in any course of procedure.  He has only the right  ofprosecution or defence in the manner prescribed for the timebeing  by or for the Court in which the case is pending	 andif by an Act of Parliament the mode of procedure is  alteredhe  has	 no  other right than to proceed  according  to	 thealtered mode.  See Maxwell on Interpretation of Statutes  onp. 225; The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd. v. Irving	(1).In  other  words a change in the law of	 procedure  operatesretrospectively and unlike the law relating to vested  rightis not only prospective.The  amending  Act  contains provisions	 in  regard  to	 theprocedure to be applied to pending cases in s. 116 which  isas follows:-S.116 " Notwithstanding that all or any of the provisionsof this Act have come into force in any State-(a)the	provisions of section 14 or section 30 or  section145  or section 146 of the principal Act as amended by	thisAct  shall  not	 apply	to or affect,  any  trial  or  otherproceeding  which,  on	the date of  such  commencement,  ispending before any Magistrate and every such trial or  otherproceeding shall be continued and disposed of as if this Acthad not been passed ;(b)the provisions of section 406 or section 408 or section409  of the principal Act as amended by this Act  shall	 notapply  to, or affect, any appeal which, on the date of	suchcommencement,  is pending before the District Magistrate  orany  Magistrate	 of the First class empowered by  the  StateGovernment to hear such appeal, and every such appeal shall,notwithstanding	 the repeal of the first proviso to  section406  or	 of section 407 of the principal Act, be  heard	 anddisposed of as if this Act had not been passed;(i)(1905) A.C. 369,"372.923(c)the	provisions of clause (w) of section 4  or  section207A or section 251A or section 260 of the principal Act  asamended	 by  this  Act shall not apply to,  or	affect,	 anyinquiry or trial before a Magistrate in which the Magistratehas  begun  to	record evidence prior to the  date  of	suchcommencement  and which is pending on that date,  and  everysuch inquiry or trial shall be continued and disposed of  asif this Act had not been passed;(d)the provisions of Chapter XXIII of the principal Act asamended by this Act shall not apply to, or affect, any trialbefore a Court of Sessions either by jury or with the aid ofassessors in which the Court of Sessions has begun to recordevidence prior to the date of such commencement and which ispending	 on  that  date,  and  every  such  trial  shall  becontinued  and	disposed  of as if this	 Act  had  not	beenpassed;	 but save as aforesaid, the provisions of  this	 Actand  the  amendments made thereby shall apply  to  all	pro-ceedings  instituted after the commencement of this Act	 andalso to all proceedings pending in any Criminal Court on thedate of such commencement."It  was	 contended  on behalf of  the  respondent  that	 thefollowing words in clause (c) of s. 116 of the amending	 Act"  and	every such enquiry or trial shall be  continued	 anddisposed  of as if this Act had not been passed " mean	thatno  provision  of  the Act would be  applicable	 to  pendingtrials	and particular stress was laid on the words " as  ifthis   Act   had  not  been  passed".	If   that   is	 theinterpretation	to be put then it would be in conflict	withthe  last portion of the section i. e. " Save  as  aforesaidthe  provisions of this Act and the amendments made  therebyshall	apply  to  all	proceedings  instituted	 after	 thecommencement of this Act and also to all proceedings pendingin any Criminal Court on the date of such commencement." Thelanguage  used in this portion of the section in  regard  tothe proceedings which are instituted after the	commencementof  the	 amended Code is identical with that  dealing  with-proceedings pending in a Criminal Court on the date of	 itscommencement.	 Therefore  if	this  Act  applies  to	 allproceedings which commenced924after  the Act came into force they would equally  apply  toproceedings   which  had  already  commenced  except   thoseprovisions which have been expressly excluded.	If the wholesection	 is  construed in the manner contended	for  by	 therespondent  then there will be a conflict between the  wordsused  in the various clauses and words- used in the main  s.116  and it is one of the principles of interpretation	thatthe words should be construed in such a manner as to avoid aconflict.  Thus construed the words of cl. (c) and the wordsof  the	 rest of the s. 116 would mean this  that  the	pro-visions	 of  ss.  4 (w), 207A, 251A or 260 of  the  Code  asamended	 shall	not  apply or affect any  enquiry  or  trialbefore	a  Magistrate where the recording  of  evidence	 hasstarted	 prior	to  the	 date of  the  commencement  of	 theamending Act and every such enquiry should be continued	 anddisposed  of  as  if these sections had	 not  been  enacted.Except as to this and except as to the provisions  mentionedin  sub-cls.  (a), (b) and (d) the other provisions  of	 theamended	 Code would be applicable to such proceedings  whichis also in accordance with the general principles applicableto amendments in procedural law.By  s.	34  of	the amending Act, s. 251  of  the  Code	 wassubstituted by two sections i. e. 251 and 251A.	 Section 251lays down the procedure in warrant cases.  It provides:-S.   251 " In the trial of warrant cases by Magi.strates,the Magistrate shall,-(a)  in any case instituted on a police report,follow	the procedure specified in section 215A; and (b)  inany other case, follow the procedure specified in the  otherprovisions of this Chapter."Sub-clause  (a)	 deals	with cases instituted  on  a  policereport	and sub-cl. (b) with other cases.  To the former  s.251A is applicable and to other cases procedure specified inother provisions in Chapter 21 is made applicable.   Section342A  is in Chapter 24 and there is nothing in the  amendingAct or the amended Code which makes the provision of s. 342Ainapplicable  to  criminal proceeding-,	 which	are  pendingbefore	a Magistrate and in which the recording of  evidencehas commenced.925In  our opinion on the plain construction of the words	usedin  s.	116 of the amending Act, s. 342A  available  to	 theappellant.   The  High Court, it appears,  was	misled	intoconstruing  the words in clause (c) of s. 116 i. e.  "as  ifthis Act had not been passed".	The High Court was thereforein  error and the appellant is entitled, in our view,  as  acompetent witness for the defence to testify in disproof  ofthe  charges  made against him or any other  person  chargedtogether with him at the same trial.We would, therefore., allow this appeal, set aside the orderof  the courts below and hold that the application  made  bythe  appellant to appear as a witness was  well-founded	 andshould have been allowed.Appeal allowed.