PETITIONER:KANAI LAL SUR	Vs.RESPONDENT:PARAMNIDHI SADHUKHANDATE OF JUDGMENT:10/09/1957BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  907		  1958 SCR  360ACT:Thika  tenant-Decree for ejectment-Execution  application-Iflies  in  civil	 Court-Welfaye	 legislation-Interpretation-Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act, 1949 (W.B. 11 Of 1949), s. 5(1).HEADNOTE:Respondent  obtained  a	 decree for  ejectment	against	 theappellant,  a  thika tenant, and filed	an  application	 forexecution  of the decree before the civil Court.   Appellantresisted  the application on the ground that in view  Of  s.5(1)  Of  the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act,  1949,  the  civilCourt  had  no jurisdiction to	entertain  the	application.Section	 5(1)  provides that a landlord wishing to  eject  athika tenant on the grounds specified in s. 3 shall apply tothe Controller in that behalf.Held that S. 5(1) did not apply to a case where the landlordhad  already  obtained a decree for  ejectment	against	 histhika	tenant	 and  consequently  the	 civil	 Court	 hadjurisdiction to entertain the execution application.The  operative	provisions  of	welfare	 legislation  shouldreceive a beneficent construction from the Courts.  But	 thewords  used in a statute must be interpreted in their  plaingrammatical  meaning  and  it is only when  such  words	 arecapable	 of two constructions that the question of  adoptingthe construction which is more consistent with the policy ofthe Act arises.Heydon's Case, (1584) 3 Co. Rep. 8, referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION:	    Civil Appeal No. 291  of1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedMarch  29, 1955, of the Calcutta High Court in	appeal	fromAppellate  Order  No.  134 of  1954,  affirming	 the  appealagainst the judgment and order361dated  July 29, 1954, of the Court of the District Judge  of24-Parganas in Misc.  Appeal No. 87 of 1954, arising out  ofthe  order  of	the 1st Additional Court of  the  Munsif  atSealdah dated February 2, 1954, in Misc.  Judicial Case	 No.96 of 1953.N.   C. Chatterjee and S. N. Mukherjee, for the appellant.A.   V.	 Viswanatha  Sastri  and D. N.	Mukherjee,  for	 therespondent.1957 September 10.  The following Judgment of the Court	 wasdelivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR	J.-This	 is an appeal by  special  leave  inexecution   proceedings	 and  the  short  point	 which	 theappellant  has raised before us is that, under s. 5  (1)  ofthe  Calcutta  Thika Tenancy Act, 1949 (West  Bengal  II  of1949)  as amended by the Calcutta Thika Tenancy	 (Amendment)Act,  1953 (West Bengal VI of 1953),  execution	 proceedingstaken  out by the decrees against him could  be	 entertainedonly  by the controller and not by the civil  courts.	Thispoint  arises in this way.  The appellant is a thika  tenantin  respect of a portion of the premises No. 28, R.  G.	 KarRoad  in  Calcutta.   In Suit No. 46 of 1948  a	 decree	 forejectment  was	passed	against him and	 in  favour  of	 therespondent on March 16, 1949.  This decree was challenged bythe  appellant by preferring an appeal before  the  DistrictCourt and a second appeal before the High Court at Calcutta;but  both those appeals failed and the decree for  ejectmentpassed	by  the trial court was	 confirmed.   Then  followedseveral	 proceedings between the parties and the  course  oflitigation  between  them turned out to	 be  protracted	 andtortuous.  Ultimately on May 22, 1953, the respondent  filedan execution case before the First Additional Court, Sealdah(Title Execution Case No. 34 of 1953).	By this	 applicationthe  respondent claimed that the possession of the  propertycovered by the decree should be delivered to him.  Thereuponthe  appellant filed a Miscellaneous Judicial Case under  s.47  of	the  Code of Civil Procedure in	 the  court  raisingseveral	 objections  to	 the  decree	holder's  claim	  forexecution (Miscellaneous362Judicial  Case No. 96 of 1953).	 This case was dismissed  bythe  executing court on February 2, 1954.   A  miscellaneousappeal	preferred  by  the  appellant  before  the   learnedDistrict   Judge,  24-Parganas,	 as  well  as	the   secondmiscellaneous appeal preferred by him before the High  Courtat  Calcutta  were likewise dismissed.	The  appellant	thenapplied	 for  leave to prefer an appeal	 under	the  LettersPatent.	  This	application  was  rejected  by	Mr.  JusticeRenupada Mukherjee who had heard the second appeal.  On	 May10,  1955, the appellant filed a petition for special  leaveto appeal to this Court and special leave was granted to himon  May	 18,  1955.  The courts below  have  held  that	 thedecree-holder's	 application  for execution  of	 the  decreepassed in his favour can and ought to be entertained by	 thecivil  courts  and  an order has  been	passed	against	 theappellant  that	 he should vacate the premises	in  questionbefore	the  end of Jaistha 1362 B.S. (1  5th  June,  1955),failing which execution will proceed according to law.	 Theappellant's contention is that the view taken by the  courtsbelow about the competence of the civil courts to  entertainthe  decree-holder's  execution application  proceeds  on  amisconstruction	 of s. 5 (1) of the Calcutta  Thika  TenancyAct.   That  is how the only question which arises  for	 ourdecision  is  about the construction of	 the  said  relevantsection.Before	dealing	 with  this point, it  would  be  useful  toconsider  briefly the history of legislation passed  by	 theWest  Bengal  Legislature  with	 the  object  of   affordingprotection to the thika tenants.  Until 1948 the rights	 andliabilities  of the landlords and their thika  tenants	weregoverned by the provisions of the Transfer of Property	Act.On October 26, 1948, the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Ordinance XIof  1948, was promulgated because it was thought  expedient,pending the enactment of appropriate legislation to  providefor  the temporary stay of the execution of certain  decreesand  orders  of	 ejectment of  thika  tenants  in  Calcutta.Section	 2  of	the  Ordinance	defined	 the  thika  tenant.Section 3 provided that no decree or order for the ejectmentof  a thika tenant shall be executed during the	 continuancein operation of the Ordinance, From the363operation  of this section were excluded decrees  or  ordersfor ejectment passed against, thika tenants on the ground ofnon-payment  of rent unless the tenants deposited  in  courtthe  amount  of	 the  decree or order  as  required  by	 theproviso.  The object of the Ordinance clearly appears to  beto  give protection to the thika tenants in Calcutta and  toafford them interim' relief by staying execution of  certaindecrees and orders as mentioned in s. 3 until an appropriateAct was passed by the Legislature in that behalf.Then followed Act II of 1949 on February 28, 1949.   Section2, sub-s. (5) of this Act defines a thika tenant.  Section 3lays  down  the	 grounds  on which a  thika  tenant  may  beejected.   The	effect of this section is that	it  is	onlywhere  one or more of the six grounds recognized by s. 3  isproved	against a thika tenant that a decree  for  ejectmentagainst	 him can be passed.  In other words,  grounds  otherthan those mentioned in s. 3 on which a landlord would	havebeen entitled to eject his thika tenant under the provisionsof  the Transfer of Property Act became inapplicable to	 thecase of the thika tenants by virtue of s. 3. Section 5, sub-s. (1) reads thus:"S.  5. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any  otherlaw for the time being in force, a landlord wishing to ejecta  thika tenant on one or more of the grounds  specified  insection	 3  shall  apply in the	 prescribed  manner  to	 theController  for an order in that behalf and, on	 receipt  ofsuch  application,  the Controller shall, after	 giving	 thethika tenant a notice to show cause within thirty days	fromthe date of service of the notice why the application  shallnot be allowed and after making an inquiry in the prescribedmanner	either	allow  the application or  reject  it  afterrecording  the	reasons for making such order,	and,  if  heallows	the application, shall make an order  directing	 thethika  tenant  to  vacate the holding and,  subject  to	 theprovisions of section 10, to put the landlord in  possessionthereof."This  section  requires the landlord wishing  to  eject	 histhika tenant on one or more of the grounds specified in s.   3to apply in the prescribed manner to the Controller47364for an order in that behalf.  This section further  providesfor  the  procedure  to be followed  by	 the  Controller  indealing	 with  such an application.  Two other	sections  ofthis Act need to be considered.	 Section 28 deals with caseswhere  decrees or orders for the recovery of  possession  ofany holding from a thika tenant have been passed before	 thedate of the commencement of the Act and it lays down that if-possession  has not been obtained by the  decree-holder  inexecution  of such decrees or orders the court may  considerwhether	 the  decree or order in question is or	 is  not  inconformity with any of the provisions of the Act other	thansubs.  (1)  of s. 5 or s. 27.  On  considering	this  matterjurisdiction  is given to the court to rescind or  vary	 thedecree or the order for the purpose of giving effect to	 therelevant  provisions  of  this Act.  A decree  or  order  sovaried	has then to be sent to the Controller for  executionas if it were an order made under and in accordance with theprovisions  of the Act.	 Having thus dealt with decrees	 andorders	for ejectment passed against thika tenants prior  tothe  commencement of this Act, s. 29 proceeds to  deal	withpending, proceedings for ejectment between the landlords andthe thika tenants.  This section lays down that all  pendingproceedings  of this character shall be transferred  to	 theController who shall thereupon deal with them in  accordancewith  the provisions of this Act as if this Act had been  inoperation  on  the date of the institution of  the  suit  orproceeding.   The  proviso  to	this  section  exempts	 theapplication  of	 s. 4 of this Act to  such  proceedings	 forobvious reasons.It  appears  that  the definition of  the  expression  thikatenant " contained in the Act gave rise to some difficultiesand  it was discovered that some of the tenants in  Calcuttawho  were  in substance thika tenants failed to	 obtain	 theprotection  of the Act owing to some words used in the	saiddefinition.   In  order to afford protection  to  the  wholeclass  of thika tenants in Calcutta, West  Bengal  OrdinanceNo.  XV	 of  1952  was	promulgated  on	 October  21,  1952.Accordingly, s. 2 of this Ordinance amended s. 2, sub-s. (5)of  the Calcutta Thika Tenancy Act II of 1949.	This is	 oneimportant365change	introduced by this Ordinance.  The  other  importantchange	introduced by this Ordinance is to be found in s.  5of the Ordinance.  Section 5, sub-s. (1) lays down that	 allcases  pending before a court or Controller on the  date  ofthe commencement of this Ordinance shall be governed by	 theprovisions of Act II of 1949, as amended by this  Ordinance.Sub-section (2) of s. 5 then deals with cases where  decreesor orders have been passed for the recovery of possession atany  time between the commencement of the said Act and	thisOrdinance.   In	 the present appeal, we are dealing  with  adecree falling under s. 5, sub-s. (2) of this Ordinance.  Inrespect of such decrees this sub-section lays down that	 thejudgment-debtor	 could	apply  within three  months  of	 thecommencement of the Ordinance to the court or the Controlleras  the case may be and invite his decision on the  questionof  his status as thika tenant; according to the  provisionsof  this subsection, the status of the judgment-debtor as  athika  tenant  would then have to be  determined  under	 theamended definition of the expression "thika tenant".  If thefinding	 on  the  question of status is	 in  favour  of	 thejudgment-debtor	 then the decree or order would have  to  beset aside and execution proceedings annulled, and the mattersent  back  to	the  court or  Controller  for	disposal  inaccordance  with  law.	Subsection (3) of s. 5	enables	 thecourt  or  the Controller to stay proceedings,	if  any,  inexecution pending the disposal of an application made  undersub-s. (2).  In other words, the effect of sub-s. (2) of  s.5  clearly appears to be that, in regard to  decrees  passedduring the period mentioned by this subsection, a  judgment-debt-or	 was given a right to challenge the validity of	 thesaid  decree  or  order on the ground that he  was  a  thikatenant	under the amended definition of the said  expressionand  this right could be exercised by making an	 appropriateapplication  within the prescribed period of  three  months.If no such application is made by the judgment-debtor withinthe  prescribed	 period,  then	the  decree  or	 order	 forejectment  passed  against him would be executed  under	 theordinary law.366This  Ordinance was followed by the Calcutta  Thika  Tenancy(Amendment)  Act, 1953 (West Bengal VI of 1953).   This	 Actcame  into force immediately on the Calcutta  Thika  Tenancy(Amendment) Ordinance, 1952 (West Bengal Ordinance No. XV of1952), ceasing to operate.  Under the proviso to s. 1,	sub-s.  (2)	 of this Act, the provisions of the  Calcutta  ThikaTenancy	 Act II of 1949, as amended by this Act, shall	alsoapply  and be deemed to always apply to all  suits,  appealsand  proceedings  pending  before any court  or	 before	 theController or before a person deciding an appeal under s. 27of  this  Act on the date of the commencement  of  the	saidOrdinance  of  1952.  It must, however, be added  that	thisproviso	 was subject to the provisions of s. 9 of this	Act.We  will  presently  refer to s. 9. Section 2  of  this	 Actadopted the amendment of the definition of the expression, "thika tenancy" introduced by the amending Ordinance of 1952.Section 4 of this amending Act has amended a. 5, sub-s.	 (1)of  the original Act by deleting the words "but	 subject  tothe provisions of s. 28" which occurred in the said section.By s.8 of this Act, ss. 28 and 29 in the original Act II  of1949 have been omitted and by a. 9 it is laid down that	 anyproceedings  commenced	under  sub-s. (2) of  s.  5  of	 theamending  Ordinance  of 1952 shall, on	the  said  Ordinanceceasing	 to operate be continued as if sub-ss. (2), (3)	 and(4)  of	 that section and the explanations to  that  sectionwere  in  force.   It  would thus  appear  that	 though	 theOrdinance  ceased to be operative the remedy provided by  s.5, sub-s. (2) of the Ordinance to judgment-debtors continuedto be available to them and the applications made by them toseek.  the protection of the said provision bad to be  dealtwith as if the material provisions of the Ordinance were  inoperation.  It is true that s. 9 of the amending Act has notbeen  incorporated in the original Act II of 1949 but it  isconceded  that the omission to include this section  in	 theoriginal Act does not make any difference.Mr. N. C. Chatterjee, for the appellant, has contended	thatthe object in enacting the relevant367Thika  Tenancy Acts and Ordinances is absolutely clear.	  Itis a piece of welfare legislation and as such its  operativeprovisions  should receive a beneficient  construction	fromthe  courts.   If  the	scheme of the  Act  and	 the  objectunderlying  it	is to afford full protection  to  the  thikatenants, says Mr. Chatterjee, courts should be slow to reachthe conclusion that any class of thika tenants are  excludedfrom the benefit of the said Act.  In	 support   of	 hisargument   Mr.	 Chatterjee  hasnaturally  relied   on	 theobservations  made  by Barons of the Exchequer	in  Heydon'scase  (1).Indeed these observations have been so  frequentlycited  with approval by courts administering  provisions  ofwelfare enactments that they have now attained the status ofa  classic  on	the subject and	 their	validity  cannot  bechallenged.  However, in applying these observations to	 theprovisions  of any statute, it must always be borne in	mindthat the first and primary rule of construction is that	 theintention of the Legislature must be found in the words usedby the Legislature itself.  If the words used are capable ofone  construction  only	 then it would not be  open  to	 thecourts	to adopt any other hypothetical construction on	 theground	 that	such  hypothetical  construction   is	moreconsistent  with the alleged object and policy of  the	Act.The  words  used in the material provisions of	the  statutemust  be interpreted in their plain grammatical meaning	 andit is only when such words are capable of two  constructionsthat  the question of giving effect to the policy or  objectof the Act can legitimately arise.  When the material  wordsare capable of two constructions, one of which is likely  todefeat	or  impair the policy of the Act  whilst  the  otherconstruction is likely to assist the achievement of the saidpolicy,	 then  the courts would prefer to adopt	 the  latterconstruction.	It  is only in such cases  that	 it  becomesrelevant to consider the mischief and defect which the,	 Actpurports  to  remedy  and correct.   Indeed  Mr.  Chatterjeehimself	 fairly conceded that be would not be  justified  inasking the court to put an undue strain on the words used inthe section in order(1)  (1584) 3 Co. Rep. 8.368that  a construction favourable to the thika tenants  shouldbe deduced.  It is in the light of this legal position	thatwe must now consider s. 5, sub-s. (1) of West Bengal Act  IIof 1949, amended by West Bengal Act VI of 1953.Under  the provisions of ss. 5 and 28 of the  original	WestBengal	Act  II	 of  1949, the position	 was  clear.   If  alandlord  wished to eject his tenant he could have  obtainedan  order for ejectment only if his claim was  justified  onone  or more of the grounds recognized by s. 3 of  the	Act.If,  after the commencement of the Act, the landlord  wantedto enforce his claim for ejectment, he had to apply for	 thesaid  relief  before  the  Controller  under  s.  5  in	 theprescribed manner.  The application of s. 5, sub-s. (1) was,however,  subject  to the provisions of s. 28.	As  we	havealready	 pointed  out, s. 28 dealt with	 decrees  or  ordersalready	  passed  whereas  s.  29  dealt  with	 suits	 andproceedings  pending  at the commencement of the  Act.	 Theappellant's  contention is that the effect of ss. 5, 28	 and29  was to submit the claims of landlords for  ejectment  ofthe  thika  tenants  to	 a scrutiny  in	 the  light  of	 theprovisions  of s. 3 and other relevant sections of the	Act.Whether the claim had merged in a decree or was pending in aproceeding  at the time when the Act came into force  or  itwas  made after the commencement of the Act, in	 every	casethe  test  laid	 down by s. 3 had to  be  applied;  and	 theargument  is  that/  this position is  not  altered  by	 theamendments  made  by Act VI of 1953.  In our  opinion,	thisargument  cannot be accepted.  Section 3 clearly  refers  tothe claim for ejectment made by the landlord in a proceedinginstituted  by him.  It is difficult to understand how s.  3could  be  invoked  against a landlord who  has	 obtained  adecree for ejectment of his thika tenant.  It is quite plainthat when a decree-holder seeks to obtain possession of	 hisproperty  in  execution	 of a decree he cannot	be  said  toobtain such possession on any of the grounds mentioned in s.3.  All that he does is to rely upon the decree passed by  acourt  of  competent  jurisdiction and to  insist  upon	 itsexecution.  Similarly the proceedings contemplated by s.  5,sub-s. (1), cannot in369our  opinion,  be said to include execution  proceedings  ofthis type.  Section 5, sub-s. (1) deals with cases where thelandlord  initiates  original proceedings for  ejecting	 histhika tenant.  This sub-section refers to a landlord wishingto  eject  a  thika tenant on one or  more  of	the  groundsspecified   in	s.  3.	Now  this  description	 is   whollyinapplicable to a landlord who holds' a decree for ejectmentin his favour.	That is why we feel no hesitation in  comingto  the conclusion that landlords who have obtained  decreesof ejectment against their thika tenants cannot be  requiredto  apply  under the provisions of s. 5, sub-s. (1)  of	 theAct.   That  is	 one  aspect  of  the  matter.	 The   otherprovisions  of the said sub-section also point to  the	sameconclusion.  When an application for ejectment is made unders.  5,	sub-s. (1), notice is ordered to be  issued  to	 thethika  tenant and enquiry follows in the light of  the	pro-visions	 of s. 3. It is only if the Controller is  satisfiedthat one or more of the grounds recognized by s. 3 is provedby the landlord that an order for ejectment would be  passedby  him and this order would be followed by a  direction  inconsequence of which the landlord would be put in possessionof the premises.  Section 5, sub-s. (1) thus provides for  aself  contained procedure for dealing with applications	 forejectment made by a landlord against his thika tenant beforethe Controller.Mr.  Chatterjee, however, suggests that the deletion of	 thewords  "  subject  to  the  provisions	of  s.	28  "  whichoriginally  occurred in s. 5 indicates that  the  Controllerhas  been given jurisdiction not only to entertain  originalapplications for ejectment made by the landlords but also todeal  with decrees already passed in their favour.   Whetheror not the use of the deleted words in the original s. 5 (1)served	any  useful  purpose  and  what	 exactly  was  theirdenotation  are	 matters  on  which  it	 is  unnecessary  topronounce a judgment in the present case.  It is clear	thatsince  s. 28 along with s. 29 has been deleted from the	 Actby the subsequent amending Act VI of 1953, any reference  tos. 28 in s. 5 (1) would have been entirely out of  place.Butthe deletion of the material words does not enlarge the370jurisdiction  of the Controller to reopen  disputes  betweenthe  landlords	and their thika tenants when in	 respect  ofsuch disputes decrees have already been passed by courts  ofcompetent  jurisdiction	 in favour of  landlords.   All	 therelevant  provisions  of  s. 5, sub-s.	(1)  are  absolutelyinapplicable  to cases of such decrees and so we are  unableto  accept  the argument that even where a decree  has	beenpassed	in favour of the landlord a claim for the  executionof the decree would have to be entertained and considered bythe Controller under s. 5, sub-s. (1).Then it is urged that it would be unreasonable to hold	thata  certain  class  of  thika  tenants  was  precluded	fromobtaining the benefit of the Act merely because decrees	 forejectment were passed before the Act came into force; and itis  emphasised	that  the  scheme of  the  original  Act  asevidenced  by  ss.  5,	28 and	29  clearly  was  to  affordprotection  to	all  thika tenants even	 where	decrees	 forejectment had been passed against them.	 It must be concededthat  under  the  original  Act, s.  28	 purported  to	giveprotection to judgmentdebtors' and required that the decreespassed	against	 thika	tenants should be  examined  by	 thecourts	that  passed  the  decrees  in	the  light  of	 theprovisions  of	the Thika Tenancy Act.	But,  later  on,  itappears to have been thought prudent to limit the protectionto such judgment-debtors in the manner contemplated by s. 5,sub-s.	(2)  of	 the  amending	Ordinance  of  1952.	Suchjudgment-debtors  were allowed liberty to apply for  settingaside  the decrees passed against them within  three  monthsafter  the  commencement  of the  said	Ordinance  and	suchapplications were required to be dealt with according to laweven after the Ordinance ceased to be operative.  As we havealready pointed out, the decree with which we are  concernedin  the	 present  appeal falls within  the  purview  of	 theprovision  of  s. 5, sub-s. (2) of the	Ordinance.   If	 thejudgment.  debtor  did	not  avail  himself  of	 the   rightconferred  on him by this provision, he cannot now  seek  torectify	 the omission by relying on the provisions of s.  5,sub-s. (1) as amended.	It may be unfortunate that owing  tothe steps that he was taking in several371proceedings adopted by him in the present litigation he	 wasprobably  not advised to make a proper application under  s.5,  sub-s.  (2)	 of  the Ordinance; but	 that  is  the	onlyprotection  that he and judgment-debtors of his	 class	wereentitled  to after the amending Ordinance of 1952 came	intoforce.	 It would, therefore, not be reasonable to  complainthat no protection whatever has been given to this class  ofthika tenants.	It may be that the extent of the  protectionnow  afforded  to  this	 class may not	be  as	wide  as  itoriginally  was	 under	s.  28 of Act II  of  1949  but	 thedeletion  of  s. 28 clearly indicates that  the	 Legislaturewanted	to revise its policy in this matter.  The  position,therefore,  is	that  the conclusion which  follows  from  areasonable construction of s. 5, sub-s. (1) is	corroboratedby  the deletion of s. 28 from the Act and by the  provisionof s.	  5,  sub-s. (2) of the amending Ordinance  of	1952and s.	  9   of   the	amending  Act  VI   of	 1953.	  Wemust,accordingly,  hold	 that the Calcutta  High  Court	 wasright  in  rejecting  the appellant's  argument	 that  civilcourts	had  no	 jurisdiction  to  entertain  the  executionpetition filed by the respondent against the appellant.	  Inthe  result,  the appeal fails and must	 be  dismissed	withcosts.Appeal dismissed.