PETITIONER:THAKUR KESARI SINGH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN AND OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:19/10/1960BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERSARKAR, A.K.DAYAL, RAGHUBARCITATION: 1961 AIR  432		  1961 SCR  (2)	 47ACT:Landlord   and	 Tenant--General  refusal  of	payment	  ofrent--Notification  by Government--Application for  recoveryof   rent  as  arrears	of   land   revenue--Rescission	  ofnotification--Validity	 of   proceeding   Procedure--MarwarTenancy Act, 1949 (XXXIX of 1949), s. 85--Rajasthan  RevenueCourts (Procedure and jurisdiction)	Act,   1951  (1	  of1951), s. 2.HEADNOTE:The Marwar Tenancy Act, 1949, now repealed but which was  inforce in the State of jodhpur at the relevant period, by  s.85 authorised the Government in case of any general  refusalby tenants to pay rent to declare by notification that	suchrents  might  be recovered as arrears of  land	revenue.   Anotification  having  been  issued  by	the  Government	  ofRajasthan  under  that section the  appellant,	a  jagirdar,applied	 to  the Collector thereunder for  the	recovery  ofrents due to him from his tenants.  The tenants also appliedto the Collector stating that notice of the said applicationshould be served on them and they should be given a  hearingas  required by the rule framed under the Rajasthan  RevenueCourts	 (Procedure  and  jurisdiction)	 Act,	1951.	 TheCollector  rejected the tenants' application and  passed  anorder  directing the recovery of the sum found to be due  tothe  appellant as arrears of land revenue.   The  AdditionalCommissioner on appeal and the Board of Revenue in  revisionupheld	the Collector's order.	But before the Board  passedits order the48Government rescinded the notification.	The High Court on anapplication  under  Art. 226 of the Constitution  held	thatalthough  s. 85 of the Tenancy Act had not been repealed  bythe  Revenue Courts Act, 1951, the rules framed	 under	thatsection	 had  been, and the non-compliance  with  the  rulesframed under the latter Act which should have been followed,was  an	 error	on the face of the record  and	quashed	 theorders directing that since the notification under s. 85  ofthe  Tenancy  Act  had	been  rescinded	 no  further  actionthereunder should be taken by the Collector.Held,  that  there  could  be no doubt	that  s.  2  of	 theRajasthan  Revenue Courts (Procedure and jurisdiction)	Act,1951,  had  not repealed s. 85 of the  Marwar  Tenancy	Act,1949, and that the former Act contemplated its	continuance,unfettered  by	the bar of limitation, and subject  to	thismodification  that an application under the section  was  nolonger	to  be made to the Deputy Commissioner	but  to	 theCollector.Section	 85 of the Tenancy Act clearly contemplated that  anapplication thereunder shall be heard and determined in	 theabsence of the tenant.	The right given by the section was asummary one and the application must be heard ex parte.	  Itwas  not,  therefore, necessary to serve any notice  on	 thetenants.It would not be correct to hold that the procedure of a con-tested	proceeding  as prescribed by Ch.  II  of  the  Rulesframed under the Revenue Courts (Procedure and jurisdiction)Act, 1951, could apply to the application for to apply	themwould be to wholly defeat its object.Once a notification under the section had been issued and anapplication   duly  made,  subsequent  rescission  of	'thenotification  could not divest the appropriate authority  ofthe   power  already  vested  in  him  to  dispose  of	 theapplication.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 277 of 1955.Appeal from the judgment and order dated April 27, 1954,  ofthe Rajasthan High Court in Civil Mis.	Writ No. 1/1954.N.   C.	 Chatterjee, Suresh Agarwal and Ganpat Rai, for	 theappellant.R.K.  Rastogi  and K. L. Mehta, for the	 respondents.  1960.October 19.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byIMAM  J.-The appellant was the Jagirdar of Thikana Rakhi  inthe Marwar (Jodhpur) area of the State of Rajasthan.  WithinThikana Rakhi was the49village of Khakharki.  He had a number of tenants under	 himin the village who paid rent on the basis of a certain shareof the produce of the land held.There  was  an Act in force in the Marwar  area	 called	 theMarwar	Tenancy Act of 1949, hereafter refer. red to as	 theTenancy	 Act,  which  had been passed by  His  Highness	 theMaharaja  of Jodhpur before the integration of the State  ofJodhpur	 in  the State of Rajasthan.  That  Act	 now  standsrepealed  but we are concerned with a period when it was  inforce.	 Section 78 of that Act provides that when  rent  ispayable	 by  a	division of the produce or is  based  on  anestimate or appraisement of the standing crop, the  landlordor  the	 tenant may apply to the Tahsildar  for	 making	 thedivision,  estimate or appraisement, when this could not  bedone amicably.	Section 79 of the Tenancy Act lays down	 theprocedure  to  be  followed  at	 the  hearing  of  such	  anapplication  and provides that any amount found due as	rentby  the Tahsildar on that application shall have the  effectof a decree for arrears of rent.On  October 31, 1950, the appellant who had some  difficultyin realising the rent from his tenants in village Khakharki,made  an application under s. 78 of the Tenancy Act  to	 theTahsildar,  Merta,  within which the village  Khakharki	 wassituate.   Before this application was finally disposed	 of,the  Government of Rajasthan issued a Notification under  s.85 of the Tenancy Act which is set out below:Jaipur, February 22, 1951.  No. F. 4(74) Rev./1/ 51.-Whereasit  has	 been  made to appear that the	cultivators  of	 thevillages mentioned in the Schedule below have refused to payrent to the persons entitled to collect the same;Now,  therefore, in exercise of the power conferred by	sub-sec.  (1)  of sec. 85 of the Marwar Tenancy Act,  1949	(No.XXXIX  of 1949), the Government of Rajasthan is	 pleased  todeclare that such rents may be recovered as arrears of	landrevenue.750by order ofHis Highness the Rajpramukh,H. D. UjwalSecretary to theGovernment of Rajasthan,Revenue Department.This  Notification was published in the Official Gazette  onMarch  3,  1951, and one of the villages  mentioned  in	 theSchedule to it, was Khakharki.	In view of the Notification,the  appellant	became entitled under s. 85,  the  terms  ofwhich  will be set out later, to have the rents due  to	 himfrom  the tenants of Kbakharki realised as arrears  of	landrevenue.   Accordingly,	 on  March  9,	1951,  he  filed  anapplication   under  that  section  in	the  Court  of	 theCollector, Nagaur, within whose jurisdiction lay the villageof Khakharki for recovery as arrears of land revenue of	 therents due to him for 1950-51 from those tenants of Khakharkiwho  had  refused to pay them.	Subsequently, on  March	 26,1951, the appellant's application under s. 78 of the TenancyAct was dismissed for reasons which it is not necessary	 forthe purpose of this appeal to state.On  March 29, 1951, the tenants filed an application in	 theCourt of the Collector of Nagaur stating that the notice  ofthe  appellant's application under s. 85 of the Tenancy	 Actshould	be served on them and they should be heard  on	thatapplication- as this was required by the rules framed  underthe  Rajasthan Revenue Courts (Procedure  and  Jurisdiction)Act  of 1951, hereinafter referred to as the Revenue  CourtsAct,  which governed that application.	The  Revenue  CourtsAct  was  an Act passed by the Rajpramukh of  the  State  ofRajasthan  with	 which the State of Jodhpur  had  integratedprior  thereto,	 and  it  applied  to  the  whole  State  ofRajasthan,  including the Marwar area.	This Act  came	intoforce on January 31, 1951.  This application by the  tenantswas rejected by the Collector.	Thereafter, on April 5, 1951the  Collector passed an order by which a total sum  of	 Rs.38,587-3.0  was found due to the appellant from the  tenantson account of rent, other charges and court fees.  The51Collector then sent the order to the Tahsildar of Merta	 forrecovering that sum as arrears of land revenue.The   tenants	filed  an  appeal  before   the	  AdditionalCommissioner, Jodhpur, challenging the validity of the orderof  the	 Collector  dated April 5, 1951.   This	 appeal	 wasdismissed  by  the Additional Commissioner  on	November  2,1951.The  tenants then went in revision to the Board of  Revenue,Rajasthan.   The  Board of Revenue took the  view  that	 theRevenue	 Courts	 Act had not affected the  procedure  to  befollowed on the hearing of an application under s. 85 of theTenancy	 Act  but  it remanded the case	 to  the  AdditionalCommissioner as the tenants contended that the	AdditionalCommissioner had not decided other points that arose in	 theappeal	to  him.   The	Additional  Commissioner  heard	 thetenants on the other points and again dismissed their appealon July 7,1952.The  tenants moved the Board of Revenue in revision  againstthe  order  of	July 7, 1952, also.   Before  the  Board  ofRevenue	 could decide the revision case, the  Government  ofRajasthan   on	 November   1,	 1952,	 published   anotherNotification  rescinding  the  earlier	Notification   datedFebruary  22, 1951, issued under s. 85 of the  Tenancy	Act.One of the points argued before the Board of Revenue in thisrevision  case	was that in view of the	 rescission  of	 theNotification, no further proceedings could be taken under s.85  of	the Tenancy Act for recovery of rent as	 arrears  ofland  revenue.	The Board of Revenue rejected this  and	 allother  contentions  raised  on behalf  of  the	tenants	 anddismissed the revision case on September 29, 1953.Fortythree of the tenants filed a petition in the High Courtfor  Rajasthan for a writ of certiorari to quash the  ordersof  the	 Collector,  the  Additional  Commissioner  and	 theRevenue	 Board, earlier mentioned.  The High  Court  allowedthe petition and quashed and set aside these orders and heldthat the Notification under s. 85 of the Tenancy Act  havingbeen  cancelled, no further proceedings for  realisation  ofarrears of rent as arrears of land revenue could be taken bythe  Collector of Nagaur.  The High Court however granted  acertificate that the case was a fit one for appeal52to  the Supreme Court.	Hence the present appeal.  The	rentfound  due  has	 not  been realised  yet  by  the  Tahsildarpresumably,  in	 view  of  the	pending	 proceedings.	 Therespondents  to	 the appeal are the State of  Rajasthan	 andvarious	 Revenue  Officers of that State  and  the  tenants.This  appeal has been contested only by some of the  tenantsand the other respondents have not appeared before us.Section 85 of the Tenancy Act is in these terms:S.   85.--"'(1)	 In case of any general refusal to pay	rentto  persons entitled to collect the same in any	 local	areathe  Government	 may,  by  notification	 in,  the   OfficialGazette, declare that such rents may be recovered as arrearsof land revenue.(2)  In	 any local area to which a notification	 made  undersub-sec. (1) applies a landlord or any other person to	whoman  arrear of rent is due, may notwithstanding	anything  tothe  contrary  in this or any other enactment for  the	timebeing in force, instead of suing for recovery of the  arrearunder  this Act apply in writing to the Deputy	Commissionerto realise the same, and the Deputy Commissioner shall aftersatisfying  himself that the amount claimed is due,  proceedsubject to the rules made by the Government to recover	suchamount with costs and interest as an arrear of land revenue.(3)  The  Deputy Commissioner shall not be made a  defendantin  any	 suit in respect of an amount for  the	recovery  ofwhich an order has been passed under this section.(4)  Nothing herein contained and no order passed under thissection shall debar:-(a)  a	landlord from recovering by suit or application	 anyamount	due to him which has not been recovered	 under	thissection;(b)  a person from whom any amount has been recovered  underthis  section,	in excess of the amount due from  him,	fromrecovering such excess by suit against the landlord or otherperson on whose application the arrear was realised.The  first point raised on behalf of the respondents in	 theHigh Court was that s. 85 of the Tenancy Act53had  itself been repealed by the Revenue Courts Act  and  noaction	under that section could be taken after	 the  latterAct had come into force.The  Revenue  Courts  Act was repealed	in  1955  after	 thejudgment  of the High Court was delivered but this does	 notaffect	the question before us.	 The long title of  the	 Actstates that the Act is intended to provide for and  regulatethe  jurisdiction  and	procedure  of  Revenue	Courts	 andOfficers, in Rajasthan.	 The preamble states " Whereas it isexpedient, pending the enactment of a comprehensive law	 forthe  whole  of Rajasthan relating to  agricultural  tenancy,land tenures, revenue, rent, survey, record, settlement	 andother  matters	connected  with land,  to  provide  for	 andregulate  the jurisdiction and procedure of  revenue  courtsand  officers in relation to such matters arising under	 thelaws  in  force in the covenanting States  of  Rajasthan  ".Jodhpur	 was  one of the covenanting States and one  of	 thelaws  in  force	 there,	 was  the  Tenancy  Act.   This	 Actcontinued  to  apply  to the territories  belonging  to	 theformer	Jodhpur	 State which since the	integration,  formedpart  of the State of Rajasthan, till that Act was  repealedas hereinbefore stated.	 Section 2 of the Act provides, " Onand from the coming into force of this Act all existing lawsshall,	in  so far as they relate to matters dealt  with  inthis Act, be repealed ". It is said that the effect of s.  2of the Revenue Courts Act is to repeal s. 85 of the  TenancyAct.   The High Court was, unable to accept this  contentionand  we think rightly.	Section 85 of the Tenancy Act  wouldbe  repealed  only if the Revenue Courts Act  contained	 anyprovision dealing with the matter covered by it.  We find nosuch provision in the Revenue Courts Act, The Revenue CourtsAct  deals  with matters of jurisdiction  and  procedure  ofRevenue	 Courts.   It  does not deal  with  any	 substantiveright.	 This  is clear from the provisions of	the  RevenueCourts	Act and, indeed, is not in dispute.  Quite  clearly,s. 85 creates, on the requisite notification being issued, asubstantive right in a landlord to have the rent due to	 himrecovered  as arrears of land revenue.	We do not  find	 anyprovision54in the Revenue Courts Act dealing with the substantive rightcreated	 by s. 85 of the Tenancy Act.  There is,  therefore,no  foundation for the argument that that section  has	beenrepealed by s. 2 of the Revenue Courts Act.A reference to schedule 1 to Revenue Courts Act which  givesa list of suits and applications triable by a Revenue  Courtand  prescribes the periods of limitation applicable to	 andcourt  fees payable on them can usefully be made  now.	 Theschedule  is divided into several groups, of which  group  Ccontains  a  list of applications triable  by  a  Collector.Item 2 of this group concerns applications " for realisationof  rent as land revenue on the general refusal to pay	rent".  In regard to the period of limitation for such  applica-tions,	it  is stated there that none exists.	We  have  nodoubt that item 2 of group C in the schedule does not confera  substantive right to make an application for	 realisationof rent as land revenue at all.	 The purpose of the scheduleappears	 from ss. 7, 9 and 10 of the Act which	respectivelyprovide that the jurisdiction of the various revenue courts,the  periods of limitation for proceedings  maintainable  inthese  Courts  and  the court fees payable  thereon  are  asstated	in the schedule.  The schedule is not  operative  byitself So item 2 of group C in the schedule does not  conferany right to apply for collection of rent as arrears of landrevenue.   On  the  other  hand,  the  mention	of  such  anapplication  in	 the  schedule clearly	indicates  that	 theRevenue	 Courts Act recognises that such an  application  iscompetent.   Since  the Revenue Courts Act itself  does	 notauthorise such an application, it must be so competent underother existing laws, reference to which has been made in thepreamble and s. 2 of the Act.  One of such laws is s. 85  ofthe Tenancy Act.  Therefore it seems to us that the  RevenueCourts	Act, instead of repealing s. 85 of the	Tenancy	 Actcontemplates its continuance in force.It  is	necessary before leaving this part of  the  case  torefer  to  Ch.	 XIII of the Tenancy Act  which	 deals	withprocedure and jurisdiction.  It consists of ss. 118 to	144.Section	 118  says that all suits and  applications  of	 thenature specified in the second schedule to55the  Act shall be heard and determined by a  Revenue  Court.Section	 124  states that all suits  and  other	 proceedingsespecified in the second schedule shall be instituted withinthe time prescribed for them in that schedule.	Section	 129provides  that	a Deputy Commissioner shall  have  power  todispose	 of applications specified in group E of the  secondschedule.   It	is  not	 necessary to  refer  to  the  othersections  in this Chapter.  Turning to second  schedule,  wefind that group E is concerned with applications triable  bya  Deputy  Commissioner.  Item 4 of this  group	 deals	withapplications  under s. 85 " for collection of rent  as	landrevenue in the event of general refusal to pay ". The periodof limitation for such applications is stated there to be  "so  long as notification remains in force " and this  periodis  stated to commence from the time when  the	notificationunder the section is published in the Official Gazette.Now  the Revenue Courts Act provides by s. 7 that all  suitsand  applications of the nature specified in the  first	 andsecond schedules shall be heard and determined by a  revenuecourt.	A revenue court is defined in s. 4(xvi) of this	 Actas  including  among  others,  the  Board  of  Revenue,	 theCommissioners  and the Collectors.  We have  earlier  statedthat  item  2 of group C in the first schedule to  this	 Actrefers to an application under s. 85 of the Tenancy Act, andprovides  that	there shall be no period of  limitation	 formaking	such an application, and that it shall be made to  aCollector.  Therefore, for an application under s. 85 of theTenancy	 Act the Revenue Courts Act specifies a new  revenuecourt,	namely,	 the Collector, in the place of	 the  DeputyCommissioner mentioned in s. 85 of the Tenancy Act and	alsomakes it free of the bar of limitation.	 It follows that ss.7  and 9 of the Revenue Courts Act deal with  matters  dealtwith in ss. 118, 124 and 129 of the Tenancy Act.  By  virtueof  s. 2 of the Revenue Courts Act, ss. 118, 124 and 129  ofthe  Tenancy Act will have to be taken as  repealed.   Therewould also consequently be a repeal of item 4 of group E  inthe  second schedule to the Tenancy Act.  The position	thenis that since the coming into force of56the  Revenue  Courts Act, there is no period  of  limitationprescribed  for	 making an application under s.	 85  of	 theTenancy	 Act  and  that	 application has to  be	 made  to  aCollector.  The application under s. 85 by the appellant  inthe  present case had been made to the Collector, as at	 thedate  when it was made the Revenue Courts Act was in  force.The  repeal of ss. 118,124 and 129 of the Tenancy  Act	doesnot however affect s. 85 of this Act except as	hereinbeforestated.Next  it is said that even though s. 85 of the	Tenancy	 Actmay not have been repealed, the procedure to be followed  inrespect of an application made under it is in view of r. 114in, Ch.	 IV of the rules framed under the Revenue Courts Actis  that  laid down in Ch. 11 of these rules and  that	thatprocedure   was	 not  followed.	  This,	 it  is	  contended,constitutes  an	 error apparent on the face  of	 the  orderspassed by the revenue authorities in this case, and rendersthem liable to be set aside.A reference has now to be made to the rules framed under  s.85 of the Tenancy Act.	These rules, so far as relevant	 forour  purpose, prescribe that an application by the  landlordunder  the  section  shall be accompanied by  a	 list  in  aprescribed  form  in which is to be stated the dues  of	 thelandlord  for canal charges, rent, interest and court  fees.Rule  34 provides that the Deputy Commissioner	shall  checkthe lists by examining the Patwari or by any other  suitablemethod and thereafter enter in the appropriate column in theform,  the  amounts passed by him as due  to  the  landlord.Under  r.  35  he has thereafter to send  the  list  to	 theTahsildar  who	shall  then proceed to	realise	 the  amountstated	in the list by the Deputy Commissioner to be due  tothe landlord.It is said on behalf of the tenants that the rules under  s.85 lay down the procedure for the disposal of an applicationmade  under  that section, and that these  rules  have	beenrepealed by s. 2 of the Revenue Courts Act, read with r. 114of  the rules framed under that Act.  It is  contended	thatthe revenue authorities committed an error in following	 therules framed57under  s. 85 of the Tenancy Act and not those prescribed  inCh. 11 of the rules made under the Revenue Courts Act.Now Ch.	 IV of the rules framed under the Revenue Courts Actconsists  only	of  r. 114.  That  rule	 provides  that	 theprocedure  laid down in Ch.  II of the same rules  shall  befollowed,  so  far  as it can be  made	applicable,  in	 allproceedings  in	 revenue  courts. In view of  s.  7  of	 theRevenue	 Courts	 Act,  an application under  a.	 85  of	 theTenancy Act must, since the coming into force of the  formerAct,  be heard and determined by a revenue court.   Such  anapplication  there.  fore gives rise to a  proceeding  in  arevenue	 court	and such a proceeding must, it is  said,  inview  of r. 114 be according to the procedure prescribed  byCh. 11 of the rules framed under the Revenue Courts Act. It is enough for our purposes to say that Ch.	II lays downa  procedure  for  a contested matter, that is	to  say,  itrequires that notice of the proceedings should be issued  tothe  respondent to it and he should be given a hearing.	  Itis unnecessary to refer to the detailed procedure prescribedin this chapter for, as no notice of the application had  infact been given to the tenants in this case and they had notbeen  heard on it, it must be held that the  procedure	laiddown in that chapter had not been followed.The  High Court accepted the contention of the tenants	thatthe  rules  framed under s. 85 of the Tenancy Act  had	beenrepealed  and that the rules in Ch. II of the  rules  framedunder  the Revenue Courts Act applied and should  have	beenfollowed.   It	therefore  held	 that  there  was  an  errorapparent  on the face of the record and thereupon set  asidethe  orders  of the revenue authorities	 challenged  by	 thetenants.We have given our anxious consideration to this question buthave  been unable to agree with the view taken by  the	HighCourt.	 It seems to us that the rules made under s.  85  ofthe  Tenancy  Act had not laid down any	 special  procedure.The only rule relevant in this connection is r. 34 to  whichwe  have  earlier referred.  All that that rule does  is  torequire 858the  Deputy  Commissioner to check the list,  a	 duty  whichunder  the section itself he has to perform, and also  makesit necessary for him to examine the patwari for the purpose.The  rules  do	not indicate how the application  is  to  beheard, that is, whether ex parte or on notice.It  seems  clear  to  us  that	a.  85	itself	requires  anapplication  made under it to be heard ex parte.  First	 thesection does not say that a notice of the application has tobe served on the tenant concerned.  Secondly, an applicationunder  the section can be made only after  the	notificationprescribed has been issued.  That notification decides	thatthere  has  been a general refusal by tenants to  pay  rent.Therefore  the section could not have contemplated that	 thequestion  whether  a tenant had so refused  would  be  heardagain  on  notice  to  him.   Thirdly,	in  proceedings	 forrecovery  of land revenue, the persons liable are not  heardand therefore when rent is directed to be recovered as	landrevenue,  it is not contemplated that the tenants should  beheard.	It is of the essence of such proceedings that  thereshall  be  a summary and quick decision.  If  the  procedurelaid  down in Ch. 11 of the rules framed under	the  RevenueCourts Act has to be followed, the entire object of s. 85 ofthe  Tenancy Act would, in our view, be defeated.  It  seemsto us that s. 85 would then really become redundant for thenit would contemplate an application for realisation of	rentgiving	rise  to  a contested  proceeding  governed  by	 theprocedure  of a suit and would be a duplication of s. 78  ofthe Tenancy Act earlier referred to or of s. 80 of the	sameAct  which  provides for a suit in a revenue court  for	 therecovery of rent both of which have to be heard as contestedproceedings  in the presence of the other  side.   Fourthly,c1. (b) of sub-sec. (4) of s. 85 of the Tenancy Act  plainlyindicates  that the proceeding on an application under	thatsection is to be ex parte.  That clause contemplates a	suitagainst a landlord by a tenant from whom an amount in excessof what is legally due has been recovered under the section.Now the amount recovered cannot of course exceed the amount59passed	as  due	 by the Deputy	Commissioner.  So  the	suitcontemplated  in s. 85(4)(b) would really be one to  contestthe correctness of the finding of the Deputy Commissioner asto  the	 amount due.  It would be  inconceivable  that	suchwould be contemplated under the section if the amount has tobe  decided  by the Deputy Commissioner	 after	hearing	 thetenant.	  It  is clearly not necessary	that  two  contestedproceedings,  one  after the other, in respect of  the	samequestion, between the same parties should be provided for.It  seems,  therefore, quite clear to us that s. 85  of	 theTenancy Act contemplates that the application made under  itshall be heard and determined in the absence of the  tenant.Indeed this is not really questioned, for, the contention onbehalf	of  the tenants is that the  procedure	followed  iswrong,	Dot because that is not the procedure laid  down  inthe Tenancy Act, but because the Revenue Courts Act and	 therules  made thereunder had replaced the ex  parte  procedureprovided by the Tenancy Act, by the procedure of a Contestedproceeding laid down in Ch. 11 of the rules framed under theRevenue	 Courts Act and this is the procedure  which  shouldhave been followed.Now,  once it is found, as we have found, that s. 85 of	 theTenancy Act has not been repealed by the Revenue Courts	 Actexcept to the extent that an application under it has now tobe  made to a Collector and not to a Deputy Commissioner  asprovided  in it, the whole of it has to be given effect	 to.The  procedure	contemplated by the section is	an  integralpart of the right granted by it, and one cannot be separatedfrom  the  other.   The	 application  made  under  it	has,therefore, still to be heard and determined ex parte.Rule  114 of the rules framed under the Revenue	 Courts	 Actearlier	 referred to can be of no assistance to the  tenantsin  the	 present context.  It does not in terms	 purport  torepeals.  85 of the Tenancy Act.  We have earlier  said	 theRevenue Courts Act contemplated the continuance in force  ofs. 85 of the Tenancy Act, and hence no rule framed under theformer Act60could  intend by implication to repeal that  section.	Rule114  may  apply to applications under  other  provisions  ofexisting laws which are not required by them to be heard  exparte.In  our	 view, for the reasons	aforesaid,  the	 applicationunder  that  section was properly and  correctly  heard	 anddetermined without notice to the tenants.  Such hearing doesnot disclose any error at all.Then  it  is said that after the rescission of	the  Notifi-cation dated February 22, 1951, no further proceeding  couldbe  taken under s. 85 of the Tenancy Act.   This  contentionalso  found  favour with the High Court and with  this	viewagain  we  are	unable to agree.   Subsection  (1)  of	thatsection	 provides for the issue of a notification  declaringthat  certain  rents  may be recovered as  arrears  of	landrevenue.  Sub-section (2) states that " in any local area towhich  a notification made under sub-section (1) applies,  alandlord  to  whom an arrear of rent is due,  may  apply  inwriting to the Deputy Commissioner to realise the same,	 andthe Deputy Commissioner shall after satisfying himself	thatthe  amount claimed is due, proceed ...... to  recover	suchamount	as an arrear of land revenue." It is contended	thatthe  words " in any local area to which a notification	madeunder  subsection (1) applies " govern both the	 applicationby  the landlord and the action of the	Deputy	Commissionerfollowing  thereon  and therefore  the	Deputy	Commissionercannot	after the rescission of the notification,  take	 anyaction under the section at all.It  seems to us that this contention of the tenants  is	 notwarranted  by the language of the section.  The words  "  inany  local  area  to which a notification  made	 under	sub-section	 (1) applies " are concerned with the area  and	 notwith  the  time	 during which the  notification	 remains  inforce.	 That follows from the words " in any local area  ".There  is  no  reference anywhere to  the  currency  of	 thenotification  in  point	 of  time.  Item 4  of	group  E  inschedule 11 to the Tenancy Act earlier referred to, leads tothe same conclusion.  That item provides that the period  oflimitation  for	 an application under s. 85 is	so  long  asnotification61remains	 in force.  It is clear that if in sub-sec. (2)	 thewords ',in any local area to which a notification applies  "meant,	during the currency of the notification in point  totime,  there would have been no need to specify a period  oflimitation in schedule 11.  We have also earlier pointed outthat  item 4 of group C in schedule II has been repealed  bythe  corresponding  provisions in the  Revenue	Courts	Act.Since  the latter Act came into force, the position is	thatthere is no period of limitation for an application under s.85  of	the Tenancy Act.  It is	 impossible,  therefore,  tocontend	 that  the  words " in any local  area	to  which  anotification  made under sub-section (1) applies "  indicatethat  the  Deputy  Commissioner's  power  to  act  when	  anapplication under that section is made, exists only so	longas the notification remains in force.It also seems to us that the Deputy Commissioner's power  toact  arises  on an application having been duly	 made  undersub-see.  (2) of s. 85.	 Even if that application had to  bemade  within  the period that the notification	remained  inforce, there would be nothing in sub-sec. (2) to lead to theconclusion  that the Deputy Commissioner's power to  act  onthe  application  would	 also  depend  on  the	notificationremaining  in  force.	It may be stated here  that  in	 thepresent	 case  the  application had  been  made	 before	 theNotification  had  been rescinded.   Once  the	notificationunder  s.  85 is issued, power is certainly  vested  in	 theappropriate Revenue officers to deal with and dispose of  anapplication   made  under  that	 section  at  a	  time	 thenotification  was  in force and applied	 to  the  particulararea.  Subsequent cancellation of the notification would notdivest the appropriate authority of the power already vestedin him to dispose of the application which was properly	 andduly  made  under s. 85.  In our view, steps  can  be  takenunder  s. 85 of the Tenancy Act by the	appropriate  RevenueOfficer for realisation of rent found due as arrears of landrevenue	 even after the notification under that section	 hasbeen rescinded.Reliance   is  placed  by  the	learned	 advocate  for	 therespondents on Crown v. Haveli (1).  In that case it(1)  A.I.R. 1949 Lah. 191.62was  held  that further proceedings under  a  temporary	 Actcould  not  be	continued  after  it  had  expired.   It  iscontended  that	 s.  85	 of the Tenancy	 Act  was  really  atemporary Act for it was brought into operation only upon  anotification which notification was clearly not intended  tobe  of	permanent operation.  We are unable to	accept	thisview.	The fact, if this be so, that s. 85 is brought	intooperation by a notification, and that that notification	 maynot  be of permanent operation, does not make the section  atemporary  enactment.  We do not think that  the  principlesapplicable to interpretation_ of temporary Acts apply to thecase of a provision like s. 85 of the Tenancy Act.reliance is also placed on cl.(a) of sub-sec. (4) of s.85 ofthe Tenancy Act.  It is said that this clause by  permittingsuits  for recovery of rents which have not  been  recoveredunder  the section, indicates that after the  rescission  ofthe Notification, further proceedings cannot be taken  underthe section.  It is contended that cl. (a) contemplates thatit may so happen that when a notification is rescinded,	 thewhole  amount  of rent in respect of which  the	 applicationunder  s. 85 had been made, had not been recovered and	thatcl.  (a) permits suit to be filed in respect of	 the  amountwhich  remained unrealised at the date the  notification  isrescinded.   This argument seems to us to beg the  question,for, it proceeds on the basis that the suit contemplated  byel. (a) is for the amount of rent which cannot be  recoveredunder the section any more because of the rescission of	 thenotification.	Clause	(a) however may clearly apply  to  acase where in spite of a notification under the section, thelandlord  whether during its currency or later,	 chooses  toproceed	 by way of a suit under the other provisions of	 theTenancy Act.It  is	then  contended on behalf of the  tenants  that	 theNotification   of  February  22,  1951,	 was  not  a   validnotification because out of 125 tenants in village Khakharki82  had	 paid  rent  and  the  remaining  43,  who  are	 therespondents  in this appeal, were willing to pay  but  couldnot pay as the appellant was asking63for larger sums than what were legitimately due to him.	  Itis  contended that on these facts it could not be said	thatthere  was a general refusal to pay rent within the  meaningof  s.	85 of the Tenancy Act.	Hence, it is said  that	 theNotification  was ultra vires the section  and	inoperative.We  do	not think that the tenants can be allowed  to  raisethis  point in this Court.  It does not appear to have	beenraised	in the High Court.  The High Court's judgment  makesno  mention  of it.  Whether it is open for a  Court  to  gobehind	the notification issued under s. 85 and	 decide	 itsvalidity  or  not, this contention of the tenants  raises  aquestion  of fact as to how many tenants had refused to	 payrent.	It also raises a question of interpretation  of	 thewords  "general	 refusal to pay " in s. 85.  None  of  thesequestions   was	 raised	 at  any  earlier  stage.   We	 aretherefore,  not inclined to allow the tenants to raise	themnow.In the result we allow the appeal with costs here and below.Appeal allowed.