PETITIONER:LILAVATI BAI	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:05/03/1957BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, S.K.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1957 AIR  521		  1957 SCR  721ACT:Premises,   Requisition	  of-Constitutional   validity	  ofenactment-Order	 of  Government on declaration	of  vacancy-Enforceability-Findings,  if liable to be reopened-Power  ofCourt-Tenancy,	when can be deemed to have been	 terminated-Ejusdem	 generis, applicability of-Death of a  Party  beforethe Passing of the Order-Effect Bombay Land Requisition	 Act(XXXIII Of 1948), as amended by Amendment Act 11 of 1950 andSecond Amendment Act XXXIX if 1950, Ss. 5, 6, 6	 Explanation(a)--Constitution of India, Arts. 19(1)(f), 31, 32, 226.HEADNOTE:By  these  two	petitions,  the	 petitioner  challenged	 theconstitutional validity of the Bombay Land Requisition	Act,1948,  as amended by the two amending Acts of 1950, and	 theenforceability	of  an	order of  requisition  made  by	 theGovernor  of  Bombay  under s. 6 (4) (a) of  the  Act.	 Thepetitioner  as	the  widow of the tenant claimed  to  be  inpossession, while the case made on behalf of the  Governmentwas  that  the	tenant	had before  his	 death	vacated	 thepremises and handed over possession to a lodger.  A copy  ofthe order of requisition was affixed to the premises and thepetitioner moved the High Court for a writ of mandamus,	 butthe petition was dismissed.  The Act was passed by the StateLegislature on April 11, 1948, and by the first amending Actits  life was extended for two years and by the	 second	 thewords  "  the  purpose	of the State  or  any  other  publicpurpose"  were	substituted  for the  words  ,,any  purpose"occurring in S. 5 of the Act with retrospective effect	fromthe  date  of  the  Constitution.   The	 Act  came  up	 forconsideration  in  a  previous decision of  this  Court	 andarguments   were  confined  to	grounds	 other	than   thosespecifically covered by that decision.	It was contended  onbehalf	of the petitioner that the Act was in conflict	withArt.  3I (2) and became invalid at the commencement  of	 theConstitution and the amending Acts, for which the assent  ofthe  President	had  admittedly	 not  been  obtained,	wereineffective  under Art. 31 (3) of the Constitution.  It	 wasfurther contended that ss. 5 and 6 of the Act which made therelevant  findings  of	the Government	conclusive  had	 theeffect	of  impairing the powers of the Court, that  it	 wasnevertheless  open to the Court to judge whether  the  factsfound constituted vacancy in law and, lastly that the  orderin  question was ineffective as the tenant was dead  on	 thedate it was made.Held,	that  the  contentions	raised	on  behalf  of	 thepetitioner must be negatived.93722The constitutional validity of the Act was no longer open toquestion  under	 Arts.	19  (1)	 (f)  and  31  (2)  of	 theConstitution in view of the decision of this Court in  Stateof Bombay v. Bhanji Munji (1955) 1 S.C.R. 777.The Act, which did not obviously come within the mischief ofcl.  (6)  of Art. 31, fell within the saving clause,  cl.  5(a),  of  the  Article and was an existing  law	 within	 themeaning	 of  the Constitution and, therefore, valid  at	 thecommencement  of  the  Constitution,  although	it  did	 notcontain the expression " for a public purpose " as  requiredby cl. (2) of the Article.Clause	(3) of the Article, which in terms applied  to	lawsmade  after  the commencement of the  Constitution,  had  noapplication  to	 the  amending Acts which  were	 in  no	 wayconcerned  with the main substantive provisions of  the	 Actalready passed, and the want of the President's assent in noway affected their validity.As the Act was valid at the commencement of the Constitutionand  continued	to be so thereafter, not being	in  any	 wayinconsistent  with  the	 provisions  of	 Part  III  of	 theConstitution so as to attract the operation of Art. 13,	 theAmending Acts were equally valid in law.Held further, that although in a proper case the High  Courtor this Court in the exercise of their special jurisdictionsunder  the Constitution had power to determine how  far	 theprovisions of the Act had or had not been complied with, thefinding	 of the State Government under s. 5 Of the Act	thatthe  tenant had not actually resided in the premises  for  acontinuous  period of six months immediately  preceding	 thedate  of  the  order,and that under s.6,  the  premises	 hadbecome vacant at about the time indicated in the order,	 areconclusive  and not collateral so as to be liable to be	 re-opened	and  could not, therefore, be questioned  either  inthis Court under Art. 32 or in the High Court under Art. 226of the Constitution.Rai  Brij  Raj	Krishna v. S. K.  Shaw,	 (1951)	 S.C.R.	 145applied.Hubli  Electricity  Co. Ltd. v. Province of  Bombay,  (1948)L.R. 76 I.A. 57, held inapplicable.Mohsinali Mohomed Ali v. The State of Bombay, (1951) 53 Bom.L.R. 94: A.I.R. 1951 Bom. 303, referred to.The  words " or otherwise " occurring in explanation (a)  tos.  6 of the Act could not be construed as  ejusdem  generiswith  the words immediately preceding them and must be	heldto  cover  all possible cases of vacancy due to	 any  reasonwhatsoever.Skinner & Co. v. Shaw & Co., (I893) 1 Ch.  D. 413,  referredto.An order of requisition passed under s. 6 (4) (a) of the Actwas  not  of  the nature of an order passed  in	 a  judicialproceeding  and	 the death of one of the parties  could	 notmake it wholly ineffective, the only consequence being	thathis name as one of723the  parties  to be served under S. 13 Of the  Act  must  beremoved from the order.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL  JURISDICTION:	 Petition  No.	119  of	 1955	withPetition for Special Leave to Appeal No. 140 of 1955.Petition  under	 Article  32 of	 the  Constitution  for	 theenforcement of fundamental rights and petition under Article136  of the Constitution for `special leave to	appeal	fromthe  judgment and order dated March 29, 1955, of the  BombayHigh Court in appeal No. 63 of 1954.Hardayal Hardy and R.Jethmalani, for the petitioner.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, PorusA.   Mehta and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.; 1957.March 5. The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySINHA J.-By this petition under Art. 32 of the	Constitutionand  Petition  No. 140 of 1955 for special leave  to  appealfrom  the judgment of the Bombay High Court dated March	 29,1955, in Appeal No. 63 -of 1954 confirming that of a  singleJudge  of  that Court dated April 21, 1954,  the  petitionerchallenges   the  constitutionality  of	 the   Bombay	LandRequisition Act (Act XXXIII), 1948, hereinafter referred  toas  "The  Act", and the enforceability 'of the	order  datedJanuary	 27,  1954,  made  by  the  Governor  of  Bombay  inpursuance of s. 6(4)(a) of the Act.The petitioner is the widow of one Dharamdas Chellaram,	 whowas  a	tenant	of  the	 premises  in  question.   The	saidDharamdas  Chellaram  died  in November	 1953,	leaving	 himsurviving his widow and a daughter.  The petitioner  allegedthat  she had been occupying the premises in question  as  amember	of  her	 husband's family since 1938  and  that	 thetenant	aforesaid had at no material date ceased  to  occupythe  premises.	 She  also alleged  that  one  Narottam	 DasDharamsey  Patel  was  a mere lodger who  war,	occupying  aportion of the premises by leave and licence of her husband.The said Narottamdas had no interest724in  the premises in question and had, as a matter  of  fact,vacated the portion in his occupation some time in the	year1953.  On behalf of the State of Bombay, the respondent,  ithas  been stated on affidavit by the  Accommodation  Officerthat  it  is not a fact that the petitioner resided  in	 thepremises  in question and that the facts were that the	saidDharamdas,  the tenant, had vacated the premises in  October1952  and had handed over possession of the premises to	 thesaid Narottamdas Dharamsey Patel.  Hence it is alleged	thatit was not a fact that at the time of her husband's death inNovember 1953 the petitioner was residing in the premises inquestion.  These facts had been stated before the High Courtalso on an affidavit made in opposition to the	petitioner'scase in the High Court.	 The petitioner's grievance is	thattowards	 the  end of January 1954 she found  pasted  on	 theouter door of the premises an order dated January 27,  1954,said  to have been made by the Governor of Bombay and  whichis said to be the occasion for her moving the High Court  ofBombay for a writ of mandamus against the State of Bombay torefrain	 from  giving effect to the  aforesaid	Order.	 TheOrder impugned is in these terms:-		   "No.	 RA (1) M- 13067Office	 of  the  Controller  of   Accommodation,   JehangirBuilding, Mahatma Gandhi Road, Bombay, January 27, 1954.			   OrderWhereas, on inquiry it is found that the premises  specifiedbelow had become vacant in the month of October 1952 ;Now,  therefore,  in  exercise of the  powers  conferred  byclause	(a)  of sub-section (4) of section 6 of	 the  BombayLand  Requisition Act, 1948 (Bombay Act XXXIII of 1948)	 theGovernment  of	Bombay is pleased to  requisition  the	saidpremises for a public purpose, namely, for housing a  BombayState Government servant.			 Premise,sFlat  No.  3 on the 1st floor of the Building known  as	 HemPrabha situated at 68, Marine Drive, Bombay.By order and in the name of Governor of Bombay."This  Order was meant to be served on (1) Shri	Hirabhai  H.Patel,	admittedly  the landlord of  the  premises,(2)	ShriNarottam Dharamsey Patel aforesaid, and (3)  Shri  DharamdasChellaram,  who, as already indicated, was dead at the	datethe Order was made.The petitioner challenged the validity ofthe  Order of requisition set out above.  Her  petition	 washeard  by Tendolkar J. who by his judgment dated  April	 21,1954,  dismissed the same.  The petitioner moved this  Courtfor an appropriate writ, direction or order under Art. 32 ofthe Constitution, challenging the vires of the Act, as	alsothe legal efficacy of the Order impugned.  She also filed  apetition  praying  for	special leave  to  appeal  from	 thejudgment  aforesaid  of	 the Bombay High  Court.   Both	 thematters	 have  been heard together and will be	governed  bythis judgment.Before dealing with the contentions raised on behalf of	 thepetitioner, it is convenient first to set out, in so far  asit is necessary, the legislative history of the law impugnedand  its  certain salient features which  are  relevant	 forpurposes  of  this  case.   This  Act  was  passed  by	 theProvincial Legislature of Bombay on April 11, 1948, on beingempowered  by  the Governor-General in	exercise  of  powersconferred  on him by s. 104 of the Government of India	Act,1935.	Initially it was to remain in force until March	 31,1950.	But  by the amending Act,  Bombay  Land	 Requisition(Amendment) Act, 1950 (Bombay Act No. 11 of 1950)  publishedon  March 28, 1950, its life was extended up to the  end  ofMarch 1952.  By the amending Act, ss. 8-A, 8-B and 9-A	wereadded  making substantial changes which need not be set	 outhere,  as they do not enter into the controversy.  The	lifeof the Act was subsequently extended further, up to the	 endof  December 1958.  By the Bombay Land	Requisition  (SecondAmendment)  Act,  1950	(Act XXXIX of  1950),  the  Act	 wasfurther	 amended so as to substitute the words "the  purposeof  the	 State or any other public purpose" for	 the  word,,"any  purpose" in s. 5 of the Act.  This was obviously	doneto satisfy the requirements of Art. 31 of the726Constitution.  Consequential changes were also made in ss. 6and  7	of  the Act.  By s. 6 of the  amending	Act  it	 wasprovided  that	"The amendments made by this Act  shall.  bedeemed to have been and always to have been made with effectfrom  the  26th	 January  1950...................  Thus	 theamendment was given retrospective operation.  The provisionsof ss. 5, 6 and 13 after the amendments aforesaid  (omittingthe  portions  not necessary for our purpose) are  in  theseterms :-"5.  (1)  If in the opinion of the State  Government  it  isnecessary or expedient so to do, the State Government may byorder  in writing requisition any land for purpose,  of	 theState or any other public purpose:Provided that no building or part thereof wherein the owner,the landlord or the tenant, as the case may be, has actuallyresided	 for a continuous period of six	 months	 immediatelypreceding the date of the order shall be requisitioned underthis section.(2)Where any building or part thereof is to be requisitionedunder sub-section (1), the State Government shall make	suchenquiry as it deems fit and make a declaration in the  orderof  requisition that the owner, the landlord or the  tenant,as  the case may be, has not actually resided therein for  acontinuous  period of six months immediately  preceding	 thedate  of the order and such declaration shall be  conclusiveevidence  that	the  owner, landlord or tenant	has  not  soresided.6.(1)  If any premises situate in ail area specified by	 theState  Government by notification in the  Official  Gazette,are vacant on the date of such notification and wherever anysuch premises are vacant or become vacant after such date byreason of the landlord, the tenant or the sub-tenant, as thecase may be, ceasing to occupy the premises or by reason  ofthe release of the premises from requisition or by reason ofthe premises being newly erected or reconstructed or for anyother  reason  the  landlord of	 such  premises	 shall	giveintimation  thereof  in the prescribed form  to	 an  officerauthorised in this behalf by the State Government.727(4)  Whether or not an intimation under sub-section(1)is  given  and  notwithstanding  anything  contained	  insection 5, the State Government may by order in writing-(a)  requisition  the premises for the purpose of the  Stateor  any	 other public purpose and may use or deal  with	 thepremises  for any such purpose in such manner as may  appearto it to be expedient, orProvided that where an order is to be made under clause	 (a)requisitioning	 the  premises	in  respect  of	  which	  nointimation  is given by the landlord, the  State  Governmentshall  make  such  inquirv  as	it  deems  fit	and  make  adeclaration  in the order that the promises were  vacant  orhad become vacant, on or after the date referred to in	sub-section	 (1)  and  such	 declaration  shall  be	  conclusiveevidence that the premises were or had so become vacant:Explanation-For	 the purposes of this  section,(a)  premises which are in the occupation of  the  landlord,the  tenant or the sub-tenant, as the case may be, shall  bedeemed	to be or become vacant when such landlord ceases  tobe in occupation or when such tenant or sub-tenant ceases tobe in occupation upon termination of his tenancy,  eviction,assignment  or transfer in any other manner of his  interestin the premises or otherwise, notwithstanding any instrumentor  occupation	by any other person prior to the  date	whensuch  landlord,	 tenant	 or sub-tenant so ceases  to  be  inoccupation;13.(1)	Every  order made under ss. 5, 6, 7, 8-A or  8-B  orsub-section (7) of section 9 or section 12 shall-(a)if  it  is an order of a general nature  or	affecting  aclass of persons, be published in the mariner prescribed  byrules made in this behalf -(b)if  it is an order affecting an individual,	corporation,or firm, be served in the manner provided for the service ofa summons in Rule 2 of Order XXIX or Rule 3 of Order XXX, asthe case may be, in the First Schedule of the Code of  CivilProcedure, 1908 ;728(c)if  it is an order affecting an individual  person  otherthan a corporation or firm, be served on theperson-(i)personally, by delivering or tendering to him the  order,or(ii) by post, or(iii)	  where	 the person cannot be found, by	 leaving  anauthentic  copy of the order with some adult male member  ofhis family or by affixing such copy to some conspicuous partof the premises in which he is known to have last resided orcarried on business or worked for gain.(2)  Where  a  question	 arises whether a  person  was	dulyinformed of an order made in pursuance of sections 5, 6,  7,8-A  or 8-B or, sub-section (7) of section 9 or	 section  12compliance with the requirements of subsection (1) shall  beconclusive  Proof  that he was so informed; but	 failure  tocomply	with the said requirements shall not preclude  proofby  other  means  that he was so  informed,  or	 affect	 thevalidity	  of	     the	  order.(Underliningours)....................... ............. .At the outset it is necessary to state that the main groundsof attack against the constitutionality of the Act based  onsuch fundamental rights as are recognised by Arts.  19(1)(f)and  31(2) of the Constitution must be overruled in view  ofthe  decision  of the Constitution Bench of  this  Court  inState  of  Bombau v. Bhanji Munji (1).	In  that  case	thisCourt  upheld-the validity of the Act with reference to	 theprovisions  of the articles aforesaid of  the  constitution.But the learned counsel for the petitioner contended that heattacked  the vires of the Act on grounds other	 than  thosewhich had been specifically dealt with by this Court in	 thedecision  just	referred to.  We now proceed  to  deal	withthose fresh grounds on their merits.  It was contended	thatthe  Act became invalid on January 26, 1950, inasmuch as  itwas  in conflict with Art. 31(2) of the	 Constitution.	 TheAct  was, therefore, as good as dead by the time Act  11  of1950 extending the life of the Act was enacted as aforesaid.The  Act  being void, its extension by Act II  of  1950	 wasequally void,(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 777.729Similarly,  it	was  further  argued  that  the	  amendmentseffected  by  the amending Act II of 1950 and Act  XXXIX  of1950  required	the  assent of the  President  and  that  asadmittedly no such assent had been given, they had no effectas  provided in Art. 31(3) of the Constitution.	 This  chainof  submissions	 is founded on the  admitted  non-compliancewith  the  requirements	 of Art. 31(3).	  It  has  not	beencontended  that the Act when passed on April 11,  1948,	 wasnot good law.  It is also clear that the Act is not  coveredby  the provisions of el. (6) of Art. 31.  The Act  is	thuscovered	 by the saving clause, el. 5(a), being	an  existinglaw  other  than a law to which the provisions	of  cl.	 (6)apply.	 The  Act,  therefore, would be valid  even  if	 theprovisions  of	el. (2) of Art. 31 are not  in	terms  fullysatisfied, in so far as the Act did not before its amendmentby  Act XXXIX of 1950 contain the expression "for  a  publicpurpose".  As already pointed out, this Court in the case ofThe  State  of Bombay v. Bhanji Munji (1) has laid  it	downthat the Act was not invalid even after the commencement  ofthe  Constitution  simply  because it  is  not	provided  inexpress terms that the acquisition or requisition had to  befor a public purpose, provided that from the whole tenor andintendment  of	the  Act  it  could  be	 gathered  that	 therequisition was for a public purpose, and for the benefit ofthe community at large.	 The amending Act only made explicitwhat  had been left to be gathered from the whole  tenor  ofthe  Act,  as pointed out by this Court in  the	 case  citedabove., The 'argument that the amending Acts, II of 1950 andXXXIX  of 1950, required the assent of the  President  underel.  (3)  of Art. 31 has, therefore, no force.	 Act  11  of1950, in so far as it affects the present controversy,	onlyextended  the life of the Act by two years and Act XXXIX  of1950  only  made  explicit what was not so  in	the  Act  asoriginally passed, and are not such laws as come within	 thepurview	 of  cl. (3) of Art. 31 inasmuch as those  Acts	 aremerely	an extension or explanatory of the  substantive	 Actwhich  is  an  existing	 ,law  within  the  meaning  of	 theConstitution.  Clause (3)(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 777.91730of Art. 31 in terms applies to a law made by the legislatureof  a  State, after the commencement  of  the  Constitution;whereas	 the Act had been passed in its substantive form  inApril  1948.  Hence, there is no difficulty in holding	thatthe  Act which -was good law before the commencement of	 theConstitution  did  not	become void under  Art.	 13  of	 theConstitution, because there was nothing in the Act which wasinconsistent  with  the	 provisions  of	 Part  III  of	 theConstitution.	 If   the  Act	was  good  law	 after	 thecommencement  of  the  Constitution,  it  follows  that	 theamendments  aforesaid made in 1950, were equally  good	law,even  though  the  assent  of the  President  had  not	beenobtained.Secondly, the decision of this Court in The State of  Bombayv. Bhanji Munji (1) (supra) itself has ruled to the contrarywith reference to the provisions of Art. 31 (2).  We cannot,therefore, go back upon our decision in the case  aforesaid.On  these considerations the petition under -Art. 32 of	 theConstitution  must  fail on the ground that  no	 fundamentalrights	of  the	 petitioner as would  entitle  her  to	seekredress from this Court, have been contravened.It  remains  to	 consider the other  arguments	advanced  onbehalf	of  the	 petitioner  which have	 a  bearing  on	 thepetition  for special leave to appeal from the	judgment  ofthe Bombay High Court.	It has been contended that ss. 5 and6  of  the Act quoted above and underlined by us  have	madecertain	 matters conclusive, so that the High Court or	eventhis  Court  could  not go behind the  order  of  the  StateGovernment  holding that the tenant had not resided  in	 thepremises  for a continuous period of six months	 immediatelypreceding the date of the order (s. 5), or that the premiseshad become vacant in the month of October 1952, as stated inthe  Order impugned in this case.  It is contended that	 thelegislature had, by making those provisions rendering  thosematters conclusively proved, impaired the powers of the HighCourt under Art. 226 and of this Court under Art. 32 of	 theConstitution.	Another branch of the argument is  that	 thedeclaration  of vacancy is dependent upon a collateral	factwhich has(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 777.731to be found by the Government on such enquiry as it may deemfit and proper and its conclusion on such a collateral	factcould  not be placed by the Act beyond scrutiny by the	HighCourt  or  by this Court.  In this connection  it  was	alsoargued	that on the question of vacancy the finding  of	 theState  Government may be conclusive on the "factual  aspect"but  not  on  the "legal aspect" of the	 matter.   In  otherwords, it was contended that it was still open to the courtsto find whether the facts found constituted in law "vacancy"as  defined in the Act.	 In this connection strong  reliancewas  placed  on the following observations of  the  JudicialCommittee  of  the  Privy  Council  in	the  case  of  HubliElectricity  Co. Ltd. v. Province of Bombay(1) at  pages  65and 66:-" The question what obligations are imposed on licensees  byor  under the Act is a question of law.	 Their Lordships  donot read the section as making the government the arbiter onthe  construction  of the Act or as to	the  obligations  itimposes.   Doubtless the government must, in  expressing  anopinion	 for  the purpose of the section, also	entertain  aview as to the question of law.	 But its view on law is	 notdecisive.   If in arriving at a conclusion it appeared	thatthe  government had given effect to a wrong apprehension  ofthe obligations imposed on the licensee by or under the	 Actthe  result would be that the Government had  not  expressedsuch an opinion as is referred to in the section."There are several answers to this contention.  In the  firstplace,	it  is	well settled  that  observations  made	withreference  to  the  construction of one	 statute  cannot  beapplied with reference to the provisions of another  statutewhich  is not in pari materia with the statute	which  formsthe  subject matter of the previous decision.  The  JudicialCommittee was dealing with the provisions of s. 4(1) of	 theIndian	Electricity  Act, 1910, which did  not	contain	 thewords  "conclusive  evidence" or any words to  that  effect.That decision of the Judicial Committee, if it can at all beapplied to the Act now before us, is against the  petitionerin so far as(1)  [1948] L.R. 76 I.A. 57.732it  has	 construed  the words  "opinion	 of  the  ProvincialGovernment".  Those words or words of similar import  appearin  the	 beginning  of s. 5. In the words  of  the  JudicialCommittee, those words signify the subjective opinion of theGovernment  and not an opinion subject to  objective  tests.The  observations  quoted above only show that on  a  properconstruction  of the provisions of the statute	then  beforethe Judicial Committee, the opinion of the Government, if itwas  made  nonjusticiable, was confined to the	question  ofwhether there had been a willful and unreasonably  prolongeddefault,  but did not cover the question-of the	 opinion  ofGovernment  relating  to  the -obligations  imposed  by	 thestatute	 on the licensee, by or under the Act.	Hence  thoseobservations   are  absolutely	of  no	assistance  to	 thepetitioner  on the question of the full implication  of	 therule making certain matters "conclusive evidence" under	 theprovisions of ss. 5 and 6 of the Act.  This question appearsto  have  been canvassed in a number of cases  in  the	HighCourt  of  Bombay.  In the case of  Jagatchandra  v.  BombayProvince(') Tendolkar J. had ruled that the declaration madeby  the Government shall be conclusive evidence with  regardto  all facts involved in the determination of	vacancy	 butthat it was not conclusive with regard to the inferences  tobe drawn from or the legal consequences of such facts.	 Thecorrectness  of that proposition was questioned	 in  anothercase  before another learned, Judge of that Court, Shah	 J.,who referred it to be determined by a larger Bench.   ChaglaC.J.  and  Gajendragadkar J. (now one of us)  examined	thatquestion  in  some  detail and	overruled  the	decision  ofTendolkar  J.  (Vide Mohsinali Mohomed Ali v. The  State  ofBombay(2).  The Bombay High Court in the last mentioned caseheld  that  on	a  declaration	being  made  by	 the   StateGovernment that there was a vacancy, it was conclusive	bothas  to the facts and the constituent elements of  "vacancy",as understood under the Act.  The High Court relied in	thisconnection on the observations of the Judicial(1)  A.I.R. 1950 Bom. 144.(2)  [1951] 53 Bom.  L.R. 94; A.I.R. 1951 Bom, 303.733Committee  of  the  Privy Council in  Moosa  Goolam  Ari  v.Ebrahim	 Goolam	 Ariff(1)  and	of  Lord  Cairns  in  Peel'scase(2),  and  of  Lord Parker of  Waddington  in  Bowan  v.Secular Society Ltd.(3).In  this connection the learned counsel for  the  petitioneralso  pressed  in  aid	of  his	 argument  the	well   knowndistinction between the jurisdiction of a court or authorityto  decide  a  certain	fact as one of	the  issues  in	 thecontroversy  and  certain  collateral  facts  on  which	 thejurisdiction  to determine the controversy could arise.	  Itwas  argued that the finding on the question of	 vacancy  bythe  State  Government was a "jurisdictional  fact"  in	 thesense that unless it was found that there was a vacancy, thejurisdiction of the State Government to make the declarationand  to	 requisition  the permises could  not  arise.	Thisaspect	of the matter has been considered by this  Court  inthe  case  of  Rai  Brij  Raj  Krishna	v.  S.	K.  Shau   &Brothers(4).   That case concerned the construction  of	 theprovisions of the Bihar Buildings (Lease, Rent and Eviction)Control Act (Bihar Act 111) of 1947.  This Court held  that,the  Controller	 had been vested with  the  jurisdiction  todetermine  all questions including the question	 whether  ornot there was non-payment of rent and on finding that  therewas default in the payment of rent, with the jurisdiction toorder  eviction of the tenant.	The finding of the  questionof default was not a jurisdictional finding in the sense  inwhich  learned	counsel for the petitioner asks us  to	holdwith  reference	 to the finding of the State  Government  inthis  case that there has been a vacancy.  In  the  reportedcase this Court held further that even if the Controller hadwrongly	 decided the question of default in the	 payment  ofrent, his effective order oil the question of eviction couldnot be- challenged in a court of law.  Mr. Justice Fazl	 Alidelivering  the judgment of the court made reference to	 thewell  known observations of Lord Esher, M.R. in the case  ofQueen v. Commisssioners for Special Purposes of the  Income-tax(") and to(1)  [1912] L.R- 39 I.A. 237.(2)  [1867] L.R. 2 Ch.	App. 674.(3)  [1917] A.C. 406.(4)  [1951] S.C.R. 145.(5)  [1888] 21 Q.B.D. 313, 319.734the  observations  of the Privy Council in the case  of	 theColonial Bank of Australasia v. Willan(1).  After  referringto  those observations and to the provisions of the  statutethen  before  the  Court,  this	 Court	held  that  the	 Actempowered  the	Controller alone to decide  whether  or	 notthere  was  'non-payment  of  rent  and	 that  decision	 wasessential  to his order for eviction of the tenant under  s.11.   That  decision of the Controller,	 the  Court  furtherheld,  could  not  be challenged in a  court  of  law.	 Thedecision   of  this  Court  just  referred  to	is  an	 aptillustration  of the rule which applies with equal force  tothe provisions of the Act now before us.  The Act has made aspecific  provision to the effect that the determination  onthe  questions referred to in ss. 5 and 6 of the Act by	 theState  Government  shall  be  conclusive  evidence  of	 thedeclaration  so	 made.	 But that does	not  mean  that	 thejurisdiction  of  the High Court under Art. 226 or  of	thisCourt  under Art. 32 or on appeal has been impaired.   In  aproper case the High Court or this Court in the exercise  ofits  special  jurisdiction under the  Constitution  has	 thepower  to  determine how far the provisions of	the  statutehave or have not been complied with.  But the special powersaforesaid  of this Court or of the High Court cannot  extendto reopening a finding by the State Government under s. 5 ofthe  Act  that the tenant has not actually  resided  in	 thepremises  for a continuous period of six months	 immediatelypreceding  the	date  of the order or under s.	6  that	 thepremises  bad become vacant at about the time  indicated  inthe order impugned.  Those are not collateral matters  whichcould on proper evidence be reopened by the courts. of	law.The  legislature in its wisdom has made	 those	declarationsconclusive  and	 it is not for this Court to  question	thatwisdom.As  an	offshoot  of the argument that	we  have  just	beenexamining it was contended on behalf of the petitioner	thatExplanation (a) to s. 6 quoted above contemplates a  vacancywhen  a tenant omitting other words not necessary) "  ceasesto be in occupation upon(1)  [1874]5 P.C. 417,443.735termination  of	 his  tenancy, eviction,  or  assignment  ortransfer in any other manner of his interest in the premisesor otherwise ". The argument proceeds further to the  effectthat   in   the	 instant  case	admittedly  there   was	  notermination,  eviction, assignment or transfer and that	 thewords " or otherwise " must be construed as ejusdem  generiswith  the,  words  immediately	preceding  them:  and	thattherefore  on  the facts as admitted even in  the  affidavitfiled  on  behalf  of the Government there  was	 in  law  novacancy.   In  the  first place, as  already  indicated,  wecannot go behind the declaration made by the Government thatthere  was  a  vacancy.	 In the second place,  the  rule  ofejusdem	 generis  sought  to  be  pressed  in  aid  of	 thepetitioner   can   possibly  have   no	 application.	 Thelegislature  has been cautious and thorough-going enough  tobar all avenues of escape by using the words " or  otherwise". Those words are not words of limitation but of  extensionso  as	to cover all possible ways in which  a	vacancy	 mayoccur.	 Generally  speaking, a tenant's occupation  of	 hispremises  ceases when his tenancy is terminated by  acts  ofparties	 or  by	 operation  of law or  by  eviction  by	 thelandlord  or  by  assignment or	 transfer  of  the  tenant'sinterest.  But the legislature, when it used the words "  orotherwise ", apparently intended to cover other cases  whichmay  not come within the. meaning of the preceding  clauses,for example, a case where the tenant's occupation has ceasedas a result of trespass by a third party.  The	legislature,in  our	 opinion, intended to cover all	 possible  cases  ofvacancy occurring due to any reasons whatsoever.  Hence, farfrom  using those words ejusdem generis with  the  precedingclauses of the explanation, the legislature used those wordsin  an all inclusive sense.  No decided case of	 any  court,holding that the words "or otherwise" have ever been used inthe  sense  contended for on behalf of the  petitioner,	 hasbeen brought to our notice.On  the other hand, by way of illustration of  decisions  tothe contrary may be cited the case of Skinner & Co.v.   Shew & Co. (1).  In that case the Court of Appeal(1) [1893] 1 Ch.  D- 4I3,736had to consider the words of s. 32 of the Patents Designs  &Trade  Marks  Act,  1883  (46 & 47  Vict.  c.  57),  to	 thefollowing effect:-"Where	any  person  claiming  to be  the  patentee  of	 anyinvention,   by	 circulars,  advertisements   or   otherwisethreatens any other person With any legalproceedings.........Their  Lordships repelled the contention that the words	 "orotherwise" occurring in that section had to be read  ejusdemgeneris	  with	"circulars",  and  "advertisements".	Theyobserved  that	by so doing they will be  cutting  down	 theintendment of the provisions of the statute when clearly theword,,;	 "or  otherwise"  had  been  used  with	 a  contraryintention.   The rule of ejusdem generis is intended  to  beapplied	 where	general	 words	have  been  used   followingparticular  and	 specific words of the same  nature  on	 theestablished  rule  of  construction  that  the	 legislaturepresumed  to  use the general words in a  restricted  sense;that  is  to  say, as belonging to the	same  genus  as	 theparticular  and specific words.	 Such a	 restricted  meaninghas  to be given to words of general import only  where	 thecontext of the whole scheme of legislation requires it.	 Butwhere  the  context  and  the object  and  mischief  of	 theenactment  do  not  require such restricted  meaning  to  beattached to words of general import, it becomes the duty  ofthe  courts  to give those words their	plain  and  ordinarymeaning.   In our opinion, in the context of the object	 andmischief  of  the  enactment  there  is	 no  room  for	 theapplication  of	 the  rule of  ejusdem	generis.   Hence  itfollows	 that the vacancy as declared by the order  impugnedin  this  case,	 even though it may not be  covered  by	 thespecific  words	 used,	is certainly covered  by  the  legalimport of the words "or otherwise".The only other contention which remains to be dealt with  isthat  the  order impugned in this case	is  not	 enforceablebecause	 it was directed against the  petitioner's  husband,who was dead at the date of the order, besides the other twopersons	 indicated  in it who were not	concerned  with	 thepremises.   In	our opinion, there is no substance  in	thiscontention  either.  An order like the one passed  under  s.6(4)(a) of the Act737is  not	 in the nature of an order in  judicial	 proceedingsbetween	 the  Government on the one hand and  other  partiesnamed.	 If the proceedings were intended by the Act in	 thesense  of  judicial or	quasi-judicial	proceedings  betweennamed parties, it may have been legitimately argued that  anorder passed against a dead man is a complete nullity.	 Butthe  order proceeds on the basis that the tenant had  ceasedto  be	in  occupation	of the	premises  in  October  1952,apparently  by	reason of the fact that he had	handed	overpossession  of	the premises to the so	called	"lodger"  or"paying	 guest".  Admittedly the petitioner's  husband	diedafter October 1952.  The occupation by the said	 NarottamdasDharamsey  Patel  was  in  the	nature	of  an	unauthorisedoccupation.  The fact that the petitioner's husband was deadon the date of the order impugned has only this effect	thatin  so far as it mentions his name as one of the persons  tobe  served under s. 13 of the Act should be erased from	 theorder But even so, it does not affect the enforceability  ofthe same.  S. 13 lays down the different modes of service ofan order passed under the Act according as the order is of ageneral	 nature	 or  affecting	a class	 of  persons  or  anindividual, corporation or firm.  We are here concerned withthe case of an individual and the section lays down that  itcan  be served either personally by delivering or  tenderingthe order to him or by post or where he cannot be found,  byaffixing a copy of the order to some conspicuous part of thepremises in which he is known to have last resided.  As	 thepetitioner's  husband had died before the date of the  orderimpugned,  it could affect only the so called  "lodger"	 whohad  been,  on	the  findings, left  in	 occupation  of	 thepremises after October 1952.  He has not made any  complaintabout  non-service.   The  only other person  who  could  beaffected by the order, if at all, is the petitioner herself.She  has  admitted  that she came to know of  the  order  inquestion  at  about the time it had been made,	because	 shefound  a copy of the order affixed at the outer door of	 thepremises.  Thus admittedly, the petitioner had timely noticeof95738the  order impugned.  Hence in the instant case there is  noneed  to apply the rule of conclusive proof as laid down  insub-s. (2) of s. 13.  In any event, as the concluding  wordsof the section have provided, any irregularity or failure tocomply	with the-requirements of the section cannot  "affectthe validity of the order".As  all the grounds urged in support of the petitions  fail,they are dismissed with costs, one set.Petitions dismiss`ed.