PETITIONER:PANDIT M. S. M. SHARMA	Vs.RESPONDENT:DR. SHREE KRISHNA SINHA AND OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:01/08/1960BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)IMAM, SYED JAFFERGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1186 CITATOR INFO : R	    1961 SC1457	 (12) R	    1964 SC1013	 (16) R	    1965 SC1553	 (5,52) RF	    1975 SC2299	 (510)ACT:State  Legislature--Breach of Privilege--Decision of  Court,if  res-judicata  between  Parties--Constitution  of  India,Arts. 194(3) 19(1)(a).HEADNOTE:The  petitioner, the Editor of the Searchlight,	 an  Englishdaily  newspaper  published from Patna, was called  upon  toshow  cause before the Committee of Privileges of the  BiharLegislative Assembly why he should not be proceeded  againstfor the breach of privilege of the Speaker and the  Assemblyfor  publishing an inaccurate account of the proceedings  ofthe Legislative Assembly.  He moved this Court under Art. 32of the Constitution for quashing the said proceeding and thequestion  for  decision in substance was  whether  the	saidprivilege  conferred by Art. 194(3) of the Constitution	 wassubject to the fundamental97rights of a citizen under Art. 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.This  Court  by	 a majority found  against  the	 petitioner.Thereafter  the	 Assembly was prorogued several	 times,	 theCommittee of Privileges reconstituted and a fresh notice wasissued	to  the	 petitioner.  By the  present  petition	 thepetitioner in substance sought to reopen the decision, raisethe  same  controversy	once  again  and  contend  that	 themajority  decision was wrong.  The question was	 whether  hecould be allowed to do so.Held,  that the general principles of res  judicata  appliedand  the judgment of this Court could not be allowed  to  bereopened  and must bind the petitioner and  the	 LegislativeAssembly of Bihar and the reconstitution of the Committee ofPrivileges in the meantime could make no difference.Raj  Lakshmi  Dasi  v.	Banamali  Sen,	[1953]	S.C.R.	154,applied.Since this Court had held that the Legislature bad the powerto control the publication of its proceedings and punish anybreach of its privilege, there could be no doubt that it hadcomplete  jurisdiction	to  carry  on  its  proceedings	  inaccordance  with  its  rules of business  and  a  mere	non-compliance  with rules of procedure could be no	 ground	 forinterference   by   this  Court	 under	Art.   32   of	 theConstitution.Janardan Reddy v. The State of Hyderabad, [1951] S.C.R. 344,referred to.Prorogation  of the Assembly does not mean  its	 dissolutionand  the only effect it has is to interrupt its	 proceedingswhich can be revived on a fresh motion to carry on or  renewthem.  It was, therefore, not correct to contend that  sincethe  Assembly  was prorogued several times since  after	 thealleged	 breach of privilege, the proceeding must be  deemedto be dead.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 176 of 1959.Petition  under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forenforcement of Fundamental Rights.Basudeva  Prasad,  M.  K. Ramamurthi, K. N.  Keshwa  and  R.Mahalingier, for the petitioner.Lal Narain Sinha, B. K. P. Sinha, L. S. Sinha and S.   P.Varma, for the respondents.M.   C.	  Setalvad,  Attorney-General  for  India,   C.	  K.Daphtary,  Solicitor-General of India, H. J. Umrigar and  T.M. Sen, for the Attorney-General of India.1960.  August 1. The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySINHA	C.  J.-By  this	 petition  under  Art.	32  of	 theConstitution the petitioner raises almost the same1398controversy  as	 had been done in Writ Petition No.  122  of1958,  which was heard and determined by this Court  by	 itsjudgment  dated December 12, 1958, and by Writ Petition	 No.106  of 1959, which was heard by this Court on November	 10,11  and	 12,  1959, but which did not  reach  the  stage  ofjudgment  by  this  Court,  inasmuch  as  the	petitioner'sAdvocate  requested the Court to permit him to withdraw	 thepetition and the Court allowed the prayer and permitted	 thepetitioner  to	withdraw  the petition.	 In  each  of  thesepetitions the petitioner, who is a journalist by  professionand is functioning as the Editor of " the Searchlight ",  anEnglish daily newspaper published from Patna in the State ofBihar,	impugned the validity of the proceedings before	 theCommittee  of  Privileges  and prayed  for  restraining	 theopposite  party,  namely,  the Chief Minister  of  Bihar  asChairman  of the Committee of Privileges, Bihar	 LegislativeAssembly,  Committee of Privileges and the Secretary of	 theBihar  Legislative  Assembly, from  proceeding	against	 thepetitioner  for the publication in its issue dated  May	 31,1957,  of  the Searchlight an account of the debate  in	 theLegislative Assembly, Bihar, on May 30, 1957.The  facts of the case have been stated in great  detail  inthe majority judgment of this Court delivered by S.    R.Das, C. J., in M. S. M. Sharma v. Sri Krishna Sinha (1).  Inthe  opening paragraph of this Court's	judgment  aforesaid,the  parties before the Court have been enumerated  and	 theanomaly	 pointed out.  This Court held in effect that  underArt. 194(3) of the Constitution a House of a Legislature  ofa  State has the same powers, privileges and  immunities  asthe House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdomhad  at the commencement of the Constitution.  The House  ofCommons	 at the relevant date had the power or privilege  ofprohibiting  the  publication of even a	 true  and  faithfulreport	of proceedings of the House and had a  fortiori	 thepower  or  privilege of prohibiting the	 publication  of  aninaccurate or garbled version of such debate or proceedings.The powers or privileges of a House of State Legislature arethe same as(1)  [1959] SUPP.1 S.C.R. 806.99those  of  the	House  of Commons  in  those  matters  untilParliament  or a State Legislature, as the case may be,	 mayby law define those powers or privileges.  Until that  eventhas  happened  the powers, privileges and  immunities  of  aHouse  of  legislature	of, a State or of  its	members	 andcommittees are the same as those of the House of Commons  atthe  date of commencement of our Constitution.	 This  Courtalso  expressed the view that Legislatures in  this  countrylike  the  House  of Commons will no  doubt  appreciate	 thebenefit	 of  publicity and will not exercise  those  powers,privileges  and	 immunities,  except in	 gross	cases.	 Theminority  judgment delivered by Subba Rao, J., on the  otherhand, expressed the view that at the relevant date the Houseof Commons, even as the Legislatures in this country, had noprivilege  to  prevent	the publication	 of  a	correct	 andfaithful  report of the proceedings of	those  legislatures,except	those  of secret sessions, and bad  only  a  limitedprivilege  to  prevent	mala fide  publication	of  garbled,unfaithful or expunged reports of the proceedings.  He	alsoheld  that  the	 petitioner had	 the  fundamental  right  topublish	 the report of the proceedings of  the	Legislature.In  the result, this Court, in view of the judgment  of	 themajority,  dismissed the petition, but made no order  as  tocosts.	 This Court further held that the Assembly of  Biharwas   entitled	to  take  proceedings  for  breach  of	 itsprivileges  and	 it was for the House  itself  to  determinewhether	 there	had in fact been any breach of	any  of	 itsprivileges.After  Writ  Petition No. 122 of 1958 had  thus	 ended,	 thepetitioner  again  moved  this Court under Art.	 32  of	 theConstitution.  That case was registered as Writ Petition No.106 of 1959.  On January 5, 1959, the petitioner received  anotice	that  the case of breach of  privilege	against	 himwould  be considered by the Committee of Privileges  of	 theAssembly  on February 3, 1959.	That hearing  was  postponedfrom  date  to date, until in August, 1959,  the  petitionerfiled  his petition under Art. 32 of the  Constitution.	  Hecontended in that petition that, as a citizen of India,	 thepetitioner had the fundamental right under Art. 19(1)(a)  ofthe100Constitution  to  freedom  of speech  and  expression  whichincluded the freedom of publication and circulation and thatthe  Legislature of the State of Bihar could not  claim	 anyprivilege  contrary to the right  thus claimed.	 In  effect,it  was	 contended  that  the  privilege  conferred  on	 theLegislature  of a State by Art. 194(3) of  the	Constitutionwas subject to the fundamental right of a citizen  containedin  Art.  19(1)(a).  It was also contended  that  the  firstrespondent,  the  Chief	 Minister  of  Bihar,  who,  it	 wasalleged, had control over the majority of the members of theBihar  Legislative Assembly and of the Committee  of  Privi-leges,	was proceeding mala fide in getting the	 proceedingsinstituted against the petitioner for alleged breach of	 theprivilege of the House.	 Though not in terms, but in effect,the  points  raised in this petition were a  reiteration  ofthose  already	determined  by this Court  in  its  judgmentaforesaid  of  December 12, 1958.  The prayer  made  in	 thepetition  was  that  the proceedings  of  the  Committee  ofPrivileges at its meeting held on August 10, 1958, might  bequashed	 and  the respondents restrained by a  writ  in	 thenature of a writ of prohibition from proceeding against	 thepetitioner  in	respect	 of  publication  aforesaid  of	 theproceedings  of	 the Bihar Legislative Assembly of  May	 30,1957.  After the petitioner had made his writ application tothis  Court  as aforesaid, the	Bihar  Legislative  Assemblyreconstituted  the Committee of Privileges of the  Assembly,and  on that very date a member of the Legislative  Assemblysought to move a motion in that Assembly for revival and re-reference  of the matter of the alleged breach of  privilegeby  the petitioner.  Some members of the  Bihar	 LegislativeAssembly objected to the motion being moved and the  Speakerof   the  Assembly  deferred  giving  his  ruling  on	thatobjection.   At the instance of some of the members  of	 theAssembly, the Speaker of the Assembly referred two questionsto  the	 Advocate General of Bihar for his  opinion  on	 thefloor of the House on October 20, 1959, namely, (1)  whetherit  was	 open to the Assembly to debate on  an	issue  whichmight  be sub judice in view of the writ petition  aforesaidfiled by the101petitioner  in	the  Supreme Court under Art.  32;  and	 (2)whether	 the matter which was dead by reason of	 prorogationof  the	 House several times could be, legally	revived	 andrestored.   On	October 20, 1959, the  Advocate	 General  ofBihar  attended the House and gave his opinion, which it  isnot  relevant  to' state here.	The Writ  Petition,  106  of1959,  was  heard in part and allowed to  be  withdrawn,  asindicated above, on November 12, 1959.On November 24, 1959, the petitioner received a fresh noticefrom  the  Secretary of the Legislative	 Assembly,  oppositeparty No. 3, calling upon the petitioner to show cause on orbefore	December 1, 1959, why appropriate action should	 notbe recommended against him for a breach of the privilege  ofthe   Speaker  and  the	 Assembly.   The  petitioner   againinstituted  proceedings	 under Art. 32 of  the	Constitutioncomplaining  that  the motion adopted by  the  Committee  ofPrivileges of the Bihar Legislative Assembly at its  meetingheld on November 23, 1959, amounted to an abridgement of hisfundamental right of speech and expression guaranteed  underArt. 19(1) (a) of the Constitution and was an " illegal	 andmala  fide  threat to the petitioner's personal	 liberty  inviolation  of Art. 21 of the Constitution of India and	thatthe  Committee	of  Privileges,	 respondent  No.  2  had  nojurisdiction or authority to proceed against the  petitioneras threatened by the notice aforesaid ".The grounds of attack raise substantially the same questionsthat were agitated on the previous occasions in this  Court.It was contended before us that the petitioner, as a citizenof India, had the fundamental right of freedom of speech andexpression  which  included  the freedom  of  obtaining	 theearliest and most correct intelligence of the events of	 thetime   including  the  proceedings  of	a  Legislature	 andpublishing the same and that no Legislature of a State couldclaim  a  privilege so as to curtail that  right.   It	was,therefore,  contended  that the majority  decision  of	thisCourt in Pt.  M. S. M. Sharma v. Shri Sri Krishna Sinha	 (1)was wrong.. In this connection it was also contended that(1)  [1959] SUPP.  1 S.C.R. 806.102the  rule of construction adopted by this Court in its	pre-vious  decision	 had been wrongly applied.  It	was  furthercontended that even if the House of a State Legislature	 hadthe  same powers, privileges and immunities as those of	 theHouse  of  Commons, those will be only such  as	 were  beingactually  exercised at the date of the commencement  of	 theConstitution  and  the right to prevent publication  of	 itsproceedings  was  not  one of those  powers,  privileges  orimmunities.   An  appeal  was also made to Art.	 21  of	 theConstitution  and it was contended that no citizen could  bedeprived of his personal liberty, except in accordance	withthe  procedure	established by law.  Hence, it	was  furthercontended  that	 the  malafide act of respondents  1  and  2calling	 upon the petitioner to show cause was a  threat  tohis  fundamental right, and, finally, it was contended	thatafter  several	prorogations, the previous  proceedings	 forbreach of privilege were dead and the House of the  Assemblyhad, therefore, no power or jurisdiction to issue the  freshnotice	in accordance with the motion of November 23,  1959,reviving the proceedings.It will thus appear that in the present proceedings also thevery same questions which were discussed and decided in WritPetition No. 122 of 1958 are sought to be raised once again.In  effect,  it	 is sought to be argued	 that  the  previousdecision of this Court has proceeded on a wrong appreciationof  the legal position.	 In short, it is insisted  that	 thepetitioner  has	 the  fundamental right	 of  publishing	 theproceedings   of   the	Bihar  Legislature  and	  that	 theLegislature  has  no  power  to	 restrict  or  control	 thepublication of its proceedings.The Government Advocate of Bihar, on behalf of the  oppositeparty,	has  contended,	 in the	 first	instance,  that	 thepresent	 writ  petition	 against the  parties,	namely,	 theChairman  and  the Members of the Committee  of	 Privileges,respondents  1	and  2, is barred by the  principle  of	 resjudicata  and, therefore, not maintainable.  His  contentionalso  is  that	the  writ cannot  issue	 either	 against  anindividual member or against the House of the Legislature asa whole in103respect	 of  what  has been done by it in  exercise  of	 itsprivilege  of prohibiting or, at any rate,  controlling	 thepublication of its proceedings.On behalf of the petitioner it was contended by Mr. BasudevaPrasad that respondent No. 2, the, Committee of	 Privileges,has been reconstituted as aforesaid after the first decisionof  this  Court	 which is sought to be	availed	 of  as	 resjudicata  and  that therefore the rule of  res	judicata  isinapplicable.  In this connection it may be pointed out thatin  Writ Petition No. 122 of 1958, Sri Krishna Sinha,  ChiefMinister of Bihar, was impleaded as opposite party No. 1  inhis capacity as the Chairman of the Committee of  Privilegesof  the Bihar Legislative Assembly and opposite party No.  2was  cited  as Committee of  Privileges,  Bihar	 LegislativeAssembly,  without  any names being given.  In	the  presentwrit  petition, opposite party No. 1 is the same.   Oppositeparty  No. 2 is impleaded as the (New) Committee  of  Privi-leges  of  Bihar Legislative Assembly and then a  number  ofnames are given including that of Dr. Sri Krishna Sinha, theChief  Minister, as Chairman.  Would it make any  differencethat  though  opposite	party  No. 2  is  the  Committee  ofPrivileges,  its  personnel is different from  that  of	 theCommittee  of Privileges constituted as it was in 1958 ?  Inour  opinion, it does not make any difference.	So  long  asthe Assembly remains the same it is open to the Assembly  toreconstitute  its Committees according to the exigencies  ofthe  business of the Assembly.	The Committee of  Privilegesis  one	 of the agencies through which the Assembly  has  totransact its business.	It is really the Assembly as a wholewhich  is  proceeding against the  petitioner  in  purportedexercise of its powers, privileges and immunities as held bythis Court in its judgment in Writ Petition No. 122 of 1958.This Court has laid it down in the case of Raj Lakshmi	Dasiv.  Banamali  Sen  (1) that  the  principle  underlying	 resjudicata  is applicable in respect of a question  which	 hasbeen raised and decided after full contest, even though	 thefirst Tribunal which decided(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 154.104the  matter may have no jurisdiction to try  the  subsequentsuit  and even though the subject-matter of the dispute	 wasnot  exactly the same in the two proceedings.  In that	casethe rule of res judicata was ,applied to litigation in	landacquisition   proceedings.    In  that	case   the   generalprinciples  of law bearing on the rule of res judicata,	 andnot the provisions of s. 1 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure,were applied to the case.  The rule of res judicata is meantto give finality to a decision arrived at after due  contestand after hearing the parties interested in the controversy.There  cannot  be  the least doubt that,  though  eo  nomineopposite  party	 No. 2 were not the same, but  there  is  noescape from the conclusion that the Committee of  Privilegesis  the	 same Committee irrespective of its personnel  at  agiven time so long as it was a Committee constituted by	 thesame  Legislative  Assembly.  The question decided  by	thisCourt on the previous occasion was substantially a  questionaffecting  the whole Legislature of the State of  Bihar	 andwas  of	 general  importance and did  not  depend  upon	 theparticular constitution of the Committee of Privileges.	  Itcannot, therefore, be said that the question decided by thisCourt  on the previous occasion had not been  fully  debatedand had not been decided after due deliberation.  That therewas difference of opinion and one of the Judges constitutingthe  Court held another view only shows that there was	roomfor difference of opinion.  It was a judgment of this  Courtwhich binds the petitioner as also the Legislative  Assemblyof Bihar.  For the application of the general principles  ofres  judicata, it is not necessary to go into  the  questionwhether the previous decision was right or wrong.In  our opinion, therefore, the questions determined by	 theprevious  decision of this Court cannot be reopened  in	 thepresent	 case and must govern the rights and obligations  ofthe parties which, as indicated above, are substantially thesame.  It is manifest, therefore, that the petitioner has nofundamental right which is being threatened to be  infringedby the proceedings taken by the opposite party.It now remains to consider the other subsidiary105questions  raised  on  behalf of  the  petitioner.   It	 wascontended that the procedure adopted inside the House of theLegislature  was not regular and not strictly in  accordancewith  law.   There  are	 two  answers  to  this	 contention,firstly,  that	according to the previous decision  of	thisCourt, the petitioner has not the fundamental right  claimedby  him.   He is, therefore, out of  Court.   Secondly,	 thevalidity  of  the proceedings inside the  Legislature  of  aState  cannot be called in question on the  allegation	thatthe  procedure	laid down by the law had not  been  strictlyfollowed.   Article  212 of the Constitution is	 a  completeanswer	to this part of the contention raised on  behalf  ofthe petitioner.	 No Court can go into those questions  whichare  within  the  special jurisdiction	of  the	 Legislatureitself,	 which	has the power to conduct its  own  business.Possibly,  a  third answer to this part	 of  the  contentionraised	on  behalf  of	the petitioner is  that	 it  is	 yetpremature  to  consider	 the question of  procedure  as	 theCommittee is yet to conclude its proceedings.  It must	alsobe observed that once it has been held that the	 Legislaturehas the jurisdiction to control the publication of its	pro-ceedings and to go into the question whether there has	beenany breach of its privileges, the Legislature is vested withcomplete  jurisdiction	to  carry  on  its  proceedings	  inaccordance  with its rules of business.	 Even though it	 maynot  have  strictly complied with the  requirements  of	 theprocedural  law laid down for conducting its business,	thatcannot be a ground for interference by this Court under Art.32  of the Constitution.  Courts have always recognised	 thebasic  difference between complete want of jurisdiction	 andimproper  or irregular exercise of jurisdiction.  Mere	non-compliance  with rules of procedure cannot be a	 ground	 forissuing	 a  writ  under Art. 32	 of  the  Constitution	videJanardan Reddy v. The State of Hyderabad (1).It  was also sought to be argued that the  subjectmatter  ofthe  proceedings  in contempt, whatever it was,	 took  placemore  than  three  years ago, and that,	 therefore,  it	 hasbecome much too stale for proceeding(3)  [1951] S.C.R. 344.14106against the petitioner in contempt.  In our opinion, this isalso  a matter within the jurisdiction of  the	 legislaturewhich must decide whether or not it was recent enough to  betaken  serious notice of, or whether  any punishment in	 theevent  of the petitioner being found guilty is	called	for.These  are  matters  with  which this Court  is	 in  no	 wayconcerned.  Mr. Lal Narain Sinha, the Government Advocate ofBihar,	who appeared on behalf of the respondents,  informedthe  Court that the Legislature was interested more  in	 thevindication of its constitutional rights than in  inflictingany  punishment on the petitioner.  Hence, no more  need  besaid on this aspect of the matter.It remains to consider one other point sought to be made  onbehalf	of the petitioner that the Assembly had no power  toproceed	 against the petitioner for breach of  privilege  inMay,  1957  when  we know as a fact that  the  Assembly	 wasprorogued  several times between May 31, 1957  and  November23,  1959.   In our opinion, there is no substance  in	thiscontention,  for the simple reason that the  prorogation  ofthe  Assembly  does  not mean its  dissolution.	  The  Houseremains	 the  same;  only its sessions	are  interrupted  byprorogation  of	 the House according to	 the  exigencies  ofpublic	demands on the time and attention of the members  ofthe  Assembly  and the volume of business  of  the  Assemblyitself.	  In  this  connection reliance was  placed  on	 thefollowing  passage  in May's  Parliamentary  Practice,	16thEdition, p. 279"  The	effect of a prorogation is at once  to	suspend	 allbusiness until Parliament shall be summoned again.  Not onlyare   the  sittings  of	 Parliament  at	 an  end,  but	 allproceedings   pending  at  the	time  are  quashed,   exceptimpeachments by the Commons and appeals before the House  ofLords.	 Every	bill  must  therefore  be  renewed  after  aprorogation, as if it were introducedfor the first time."The  observations  quoted above do not support	the  extremecontention  raised  on	behalf of the  petitioner  that	 theproceedings  in contempt are dead for all time.	 The  effectof  the	 prorogation only is to	 interrupt  the	 proceedingswhich are revived on a fresh motion to107carry on or renew the proceedings.  In this case, it is	 notnecessary to pronounce upon the question whether dissolutionof  the	 House necessarily has the effect, of  2  completelywiping out the contempt or the proceedings relating thereto.In our opinion, for the reasons given above, no grounds havebeen  made out for the exercise by this Court of its  powersunder  Art.  32	 of  the  Constitution.	  The  petition	  isaccordingly dismissed.	There will be no order as to costs.				      Petition dismissed.