PETITIONER:SAROJ KUMAR MAZUMDAR	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, WESTBENGAL, CALCUTTA.DATE OF JUDGMENT:04/05/1959BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.KAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1252		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 846ACT:Incometax-Assessment-Single transaction of Purchase and saleof  land-If  a	venture in the nature of  trade	 or  capitalinvestment  -Test-Dominant intention-Onus-Indian  Income-taxAct, 1922 (XI Of 1922), SS. 2(4), 1O.HEADNOTE:The  question  for  decision in this appeal  was  whether  asingle	transaction  of sale of land measuring	about  threequarters of an acre was an adventure in the nature of  tradeso  as	to  make  it liable  to	 income-tax.   The  assesseeappellant, an Engineer by profession, was engaged in variousbusiness  activities including that of an  engineering	firmbut, admittedly, had no dealing, except the one in question,in  respect of land.  In 1946 be entered into  an  agreementwith the Hindusthan Co-operative Insurance Society Ltd.	 forthe  purchase of the land in question and paid a sum of	 Rs.32,748 in two instalments, being 25% of the estimated  totalprice of the land.  As his construction activities  declinedand the Government, who had requisitioned the land, were notimmediately  releasing	it, the appellant  sold	 his  rightsunder  the  agreement to a third party in 1947	and  therebyreceived  a  sum of Rs. 74,000 odd in excess of	 the  amountpaid  by  him to the Society.  The land,  however,  was	 notreleased  by  the  Government until  1949.   The  Income-taxOfficer	 held that the transaction was an adventure  in	 thenature	of  trade and the said sum was a  profit  therefrom,taxable under s. 10 of the Incometax Act, and included it inthe    assessable   income.    The    Appellate	   AssistantCommissioner,  in appeal, held that the assessee, a  man  ofmeans,	had intended to purchase the land for his  own	use,and  that the motive of profit was entirely absent when	 thepurchase was made and that as it was a case of	appreciationof  capital,  he was liable to pay Capital Gains  tax.	 TheAppellate Tribunal on appeal by the Department, reversed thefindings  and  the  decision  of  the  Appellate   AssistantCommissioner  and affirmed that of the	Income-tax  Officer.After  the  assessee had obtained from	this  Court  specialleave  to appeal, he made an application to the	 High  Courtunder  s.  66(2)  of the Income-tax Act,  which	 that  Courtdismissed as being barred by limitation.Held,  (per Bhagwati and Sinha, JJ., Kapur, J.,	 dissenting)that  admittedly the transaction in question being a  singleinstance of its kind, and not in the line of the business ofthe  assessee, it was for the Department to prove  that	 thedominant  intention of the appellant, when he  entered	intothe  agreement with the Society, was to embark on a  venturein the nature of847trade  as distinguished from a capital investment, and	theyhaving failed to do so, the appeal must succeed.Commissioners  of Inland Revenue v. Reinhold, 34 T. C.	389,applied.There  could  be no doubt, as held by the  Court,  that	 thequestion for decision involved in such cases was one of	 lawor a mixed question of fact and law.G.   Venkataswami  Naidu  and Co. v. The Commissioner  of  Icome-tax,   A.I.R.   1959   S.C.  359,	 referred   to	 anddistinguished.The line of demarcation, however, between an isolated trans-action	and a venture in the nature of trade was  very	thinand each case had to be decided on the total impression	 allits facts and circumstances made on the mind of the judge.Case-law reviewed.KAPUR,	J.--Even though the powers of this Court under	Art.I36  of	 the  Constitution were very wide, they	 had  to  beexercised within the limits imposed by its own decisions andone such limitation was that this Court would not ordinarilyinterfere on questions of fact.	 Since the question involvedin  the instant case was a mixed question of law  and  fact,the  facts  should  properly  be found	by  the	 body  whoseexclusive function under the Income-tax Act was to do so.G.   Venkataswami Naidu & Co. v. The Commissioner of Income-tax, A.I.R. 1959 S.C. 359 and Dhakeswari Cotton Mills v. TheCommissioner  of Income-tax, [1955] i S.C.R.  94I,  referredto.Nor  could an assessee be allowed to by-pass  the  procedureprescribed by ss. 66(1), 66(2) of the Income-tax Act to havequestion of law determined.Since,	however, the Appellate Tribunal had, in the  instantcase,  failed to consider certain essential facts, the	caseshould be remitted to it for a proper decision in the  lightof the observations made by this Court.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 347 of 1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedMarch  26,  1954,  of  the  Income-tax	Appellate  Tribunal,Calcutta, in Income-tax Appeal No. 5263 of 1953-54.A.   V.	 Viswanatha  Sastri  and  Sukumar  Chosh,  for	 theappellant.G.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, B.  Ganapathy,R. H. Dhebar and D. Gupta, for the respondent.1959.  May 4.  The Judgment of Bhagwati and Sinha, JJ.,	 wasdelivered  by  Sinha,  J. Kapur,  J.  delivered	 a  separateJudgment.848SINHA, J.-The only question for determination in this appealby  special  leave, is whether the solitary  transaction  inrespect	 of about three quarters of an acre of land  in	 thesuburbs of Calcutta, was an adventure in the nature of tradeand,  therefore, liable to income-tax.	The assessee is	 theappellant.   He challenges the correctness of the  order  ofthe Income-tax Appellate Tribunal, Calcutta Bench, Calcutta,dated  March 26, 1954, passed in I.T.A. 5263 of 1953-54,  inrespect	 of the Assessment year 1948-49, reversing  that  ofthe Appellate Assistant Commissioner of Incometax, Range " C", Calcutta, dated September 5, 1953.The  facts  of	this case leading upto this  appeal  are  asfollows:  The  appellant  is engaged  in  various  types  ofbusiness  activities, being a share-holder and	Director  orManaging Director of several limited liability concerns, andis also a partner in the firm known as " Pioneer EngineeringWorks  ". In respect of his income during the  previous	 twoassessment  years, the appellant was assessed to  income-taxon the sums of Rs. 53,000/-(1946-47) and Rs. 59,000/- (1947-48).  The appellant holds investments in shares of the valueof Rs. 2,45,000/-, out of which, according to the  assessee,shares	of the value of Rs. 1,95,000/-, though	standing  inhis  name, belong to other members of his family,  includinghis father and his wife.The  Hindusthan Co-operative Insurance Society	Limited,  ofCalcutta,  (hereinafter	 referred to as "  the	Society	 "),acquired  a block of about 578 bighas of land lying  betweenDiamond	  Harbour  Road	 and  Tolly's  Nullah,	within	 theMunicipal limits of the Corporation of Calcutta, between theyears 1940 and 1942.  The Society decided to level the	landthus acquired and to open out roads and after developing thesame,  it  subdivided  it  into small  plots  and  sites  indifferent blocks suitable for residential purposes under itsscheme called " The New Alipore Land Development Scheme	 No.XV  ". The Society offered such plots for sale.	  One  -suchplot,  being plot No. 77 in block " E " of the said  Scheme,was  agreed, by an agreement dated January 10, 1946,  to  besold  to the assessee at the rate of Rs. 2,550/- per  katha.In pursuance of the said agreement, the assessee paid to theSociety, a sum of849Rs.  13,099/- being 10% of the estimated price of  the	plotwith  an approximate area of 51 kathas, which  subsequently,on  exact  measurement,	 was  found  to	 be  45-56   kathas.Subsequently, on the acceptance of his offer, the  appellantpaid  another SUM of Rs. 19,649 (omitting annas), being	 15%of the estimated price.	 Thus, in all, a sum of Rs. 32,748/-being 25% of the estimated total price of the land, was paidby  the	 assessee to the Society.  All this area  which	 theSociety	 had  undertaken to develop and	 sell  to  differentpurchasers  in	small  plots,  was  in	occupation  of	 theGovernment,   which  had  requisitioned	 it   for   purposesconnected  with	 the prosecution of the	 Second	 World	War.Hence,	one  of	 the terms of the  transaction	between	 theassesee	 and  the  Society,  was  that	the  transaction  ofpurchase  would be completed within six months of the  landsbeing  released from Government occupation.  It was  furtherstipulated  that  the assessee would be entitled  to  apply,within	three  months of the receipt of the  notice  of	 de-requisition,  for extension of time not exceeding one  year,for the completion of the transaction on the condition	thathe  paid  interest  at	the rate of  7%	 per  annum  on	 theoutstanding  amount,  during the extended  period.   If	 theassessee,  as  purchaser, paid to the  Society	another	 sumwhich,	together  with	Rs. 32,748/-,  already	paid,  wouldamount	to  50% of the total price of the plot	in  question(within	 six  months of the notice  of	de-requisition),  hecould  get a conveyance of the property on his executing  anEnglish Mortgage for the remaining 50% of the price carryinginterest at the rate of 7%, on the expiry of these aforesaidsix   months.	As  there  was	an  apprehension  that	 theGovernment  might  acquire the whole property  for  its	 ownpurpose, it was further stipulated that in the event of suchan  acquisition by Government, the agreement for sale  wouldstand  rescinded, and the assessee, in that event, would  beentitled  to  re-payment of the amounts paid by him  to	 theSociety	 by  way  of  advance  for  the	 completion  of	 thetransaction.   The assessee's case is that as the  terms  ofthe  payment  of purchase-price in several  instalments,  asaforesaid, were convenient to him,107850he agreed to take the plot on the conditions aforesaid, witha  view	 to  building a residential house  for	himself	 andconstructing  a	 workshop in connection	 with  his  businessactivity.   At	the  end  of  the  Second  World   War,	 theassesee's  construction	 activities began  to  decline,	 andthere  was  no immediate prospect of the  land	in  questionbeing	 de-requisitioned   by	 Government.	 In    thosecircumstances, the assessee negotiated for the assignment ofhis  rights  under the agreement with the Society,  to	RaniYuddha Rajya Devi of Nepal.  The Rani appeared to have takena fancy to the plot and to have made an attractive offer  tothe appellant.	Hence, after exchange of letters between theparties,  it  was  agreed between them that  a	sum  of	 Rs.1,07,000  odd  would  be  deposited by	the  Rani  with	 theassessee  on suspense account until the transaction of	salebetween	 the  Society  as the vendor and  the  Rani  or	 hernominee,   as  the  vendee,  would  be	executed   and	 thetransaction  of purchase finalised upon her  undertaking  topay the sum of Rs. 98,000 odd to the Society, which was	 theoutstanding amount of the sale-price in respect of the	plotagreed	by  the	 assessee to be purchased by  him  from	 theSociety.   After a good deal of correspondence, on  December27,  1950,  the	 Society executed a deed  of  conveyance  inrespect	 of the said plot, to the daughter of the said	Ranias  the	 vendee.  The aforesaid vendee executed	 a  deed  ofmortgage in favour of the Society for the outstanding amountof  Rs.	 50,900/-, after payment of Rs. 32,700	odd  to	 theSociety.  In the result, the assessee received, on April  3,1947, a sum of Rs. 1,07,000 odd from the Rani, in  pursuanceof  the agreement between her and the assessee.	  Until	 theexecution  of  the  sale-deed between the  Society  and	 theRani's	nominee, as aforesaid, the assessee continued to  beliable to the Society in respect of the agreement of January10, 1946.  The assessee, thus, received from the Rani a	 sumof Rs. 74,000 odd in excess of the amount paid by him to theSociety.  The property, including the plot in question,	 wasnot de-requisitioned until some time in 1949.In  respect  of the assessment year  1948-49,  the  assesseefiled a return of his income to the Income-tax851Department,  showing  a	 loss  of  Rs.	2,000  odd  for	 thefinancial year 1947-48.	 In pursuance of the notice under s.23(2)  of the Income-tax Act, the assessee  appeared  beforethe Income-tax Officer, Calcutta, and produced all his booksof  account, including his bank	  accounts.   The Income-taxOfficer,  on  an  examination of  the  accounts,  and  afterquestioning  the assessee, came to the conclusion  that	 theassessee  had  made  a profit of Rs.  74,000  odd  from	 thetransaction  in -question, which, according to him,  was  anadventure in the nature of trade.  Hence, on an	 examinationof the assessee's accounts, the Income-tax Officer  includedthe sum of Rs. 74,485/- as profit from an " adventure in thenature of trade "-taxable under s. 10 of the Income-tax Act-as one of the items of income accrued to the assessee duringthe assessment year 1948-49.The  assessee went up in appeal to the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner of Income-tax, and challenged the conclusion ofthe  Income-tax Officer that the sum of Rs. 74,000  odd	 wasprofit	from  an adventure in the nature of trade.   It	 wasalso  taken as one of the grounds of appeal by him  that  inany event, the receipt accrued to the assessee only in 1950,after the transaction of sale had been completed as  betweenthe Rani's nominee and the Society.  The Appellate AssistantCommissioner did not agree with the Income-tax Officer	thatthe  assessee was not in a position either to  complete	 thetransaction  of	 purchase  by  paying  the  full  amount  ofconsideration, or to erect a building thereon, or to use theland  in  any  other way.  He pointed  out  that  under	 theScheme,	 the  Society  had  offered  terms  of	purchase  oninstalments and on execution of a mortgage in respect of thevended	property to the extent of 50% of  the  considerationmoney.	  He  also  pointed  out  that	the   assessee	 badconsiderable investments to the extent of Rs. 2,45,000/-  inshares	of different limited concerns.	He, therefore,	cameto the conclusion that the assessee was a man of means,	 andthat  it  could	 not be said that he  had  not	intended  topurchase the plot for his own use.  He further hold that themotive	of making a profit at the time of the purchase,	 hadnot been established by the Department,852and  that  it  was  a " solitary  transaction  ".  On  thesefindings, he found himself unable to confirm the finding  ofthe Income-tax Officer that the profit was from an adventurein the nature of trade.	 He took the view that the appellanthad made an investment which had appreciated considerably invalue, and that it was undoubtedly a case of appreciation ofcapital.  Treating it as a " Capital Gain ", he came to	 theconclusion  that as the payment bad been made in  1947,	 thegain  accrued  in  that year and not in the  year  1950,  ascontended on behalf of the assessee.  In the result, he madehim liable to pay Capital Gains tax.The Department went up in appeal to the Incometax  AppellateTribunal,  which,  by  its judgment dated  March  26,  1954,allowed	 the  appeal.	The Tribunal pointed  out  that	 theassessee  was not a man of such large means as to  think  ofacquiring  the	plot  for his own  residential	or  businesspurposes.  The admitted shares worth Rs. 2,45,000/- standingin  his	 name, the Tribunal pointed out, were  held  by	 theassessee,  in  respect of the major portion,  on  behalf  ofother  members	of his family.	The Tribunal  also  observedthat  Rs. 32,748/- paid by the assessee to the	Society	 hadbeen  paid out of borrowed money.  This conclusion does	 notappear	to have been well-founded in fact.  The accounts  doshow  credits in favour of the assessee of a larger  amount.The  Tribunal  also  pointed  out  that	 undoubtedly  the  "assessee  is a keen businessman and has a number  of  variedbusiness interests.  Admittedly, he is a director of about adozen  concerns and managing director of two or three.	 Heris  -/8/- annas partner in an Engineering concern  which  iscarrying  out  a number of construction and  other  contractworks.	 He is an Engineer by profession and a	resident  ofCalcutta."  The Tribunal based its conclusion that the	salewas  an	 adventure  in the nature of  trade,  and  that	 theprofits,  thus made, were assessable to income-tax,  on	 thefollowing grounds:---That  the  payment  by the assessee  to	 the  Co.  operativeSociety,  of Rs. 32,748/-, came out of a loan taken for	 thepurpose	 from  a  company (which conclu.  sion,	 as  alreadypointed out, is not borne out by the entries in the books ofaccount of that company);8532.   That  the assessee could not have paid the	 balance  ofRs.  98,000  odd, the outstanding amount  of  the  purchase-money, to the Insurance Company ;3.   That the assessee had no means to construct a house  onthe land, and lastly,4.   That  the site itself fetched no income, thus,  showingthat  it  could not be an investment but only  an  excursioninto the realm of trade.Against	 this  decision	 of  the  Appellate  Tribunal,	 theassessee  moved	 this Court and obtained  special  leave  toappeal.Before we deal with the main question in controversy in thisappeal,	 we would like to make some general remarks  on	 thenature	of the questions involved in this case.	 It  is	 notdisputed  on behalf of the respondent that the question	 nowbefore us, is a question of law, or a mixed question of factand law, as has been recently laid down by this Court in thecase of G. Venkataswami Naidu and Co. v. The Commissioner ofIncome-tax (1).	 Speaking for the Court, Gajendragadkar, J.,after  a detailed discussion of the decisions of this  CourtMeenakshi  Mills, Madurai v. Commis. sioner  of	 Income-tax,Madras	(2)  and  The  Oriental	 Investment  Co.,,  Ltd.  v.Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay (3), and of the House  ofLords,	in Edwards v. Bairstow (4), came to  the  conclusionthat  the question arising in the case, is a mixed  questionof law and fact, and, therefore, open to examination by thisCourt.	In G. Venkataswami Naidu and Co. v. The Commissionerof  Income-tax	(supra), the question  raised,	was  exactlysimilar to the question now before us, though in a differentsetting	 of facts.  His conclusion may be stated in his	 ownwords as follows:-"  In  other  words, in reaching  the  conclusion  that	 thetransaction  is	 an adventure in the nature  of	 trade,	 thetribunal  has  to find primary evidentiary  facts  and	thenapply  the  legal principles involved in  the  expression  "adventure in the nature of trade " used by s. 2, sub-s. (4).It  is	patent	that the clause 'in  the  nature  of  trade'postulates the existence of certain elements in(1)  A.I.R. 1959 S.C. 359.(2)  [1956] S.C.R. 691(3)  [1958] S.C.R. 49.(4)  36 T.C. 207.854the  adventure	which  in  law	would  invest  it  with	 thecharacter  of a trade or business;. and that would make	 thequestion and its decision one of mixed law and fact.""In that view of the matter, this Court further pointed	 outthat  the more proper form of the question is " whether,  onthe  facts  and	 circumstances	proved	in  the	 case,	 theinference  that the transaction in question is an  adventurein  the	 nature of trade is in law  justified."	 The  recentdecision of this Court has examined almost all the  relevantcases  decided in Indian as also English and Scotch  Courts,and  thus, our task in the present case, has been very	muchsimplified.  It has further been observed in that case, morethan  once,  that  judicial opinion was	 unanimous  that  nogeneral	 principles or universal tests could be	 laid  down,which  could govern the decision of all cases in  which	 thequestion for determination is similar to the one now  beforeus.   Each case must be determined on the  total  impressioncreated	 on  the  mind of the Court by	all  the  facts	 andcircumstances disclosed in that particular case.  Hence,  nodecided	 case can, strictly speaking, be a  precedent  whichcould  govern  the  decision of a later	 case,	involving  asimilar	 question.  Those decisions can be used only by	 wayof  illustrations of the different view-points which have  abearing	 on the decision of the case in hand.  It  has	alsonot  been disputed that in a case where a transaction  underexamination,  is  not  in the line of the  business  of	 theassessee,  and	is ail isolated or a single  instance  of  atransaction  like  that, the burden lies on the	 Revenue  tobring  the  case within the words of the  statute,  .namely,that  it was an adventure in the nature of trade.  That	 theonus  is  on the Department, has been clearly laid  down  byLord Garmount in the case of Commissioners of Inland Revenuev.  Reinhold (1).  That was a case in which the	 respondent,the  assessee, was a director of a company carrying  on	 thebusiness  of  WarehousemeD, and had bought  four  houses  inJanuary, 1945, and sold them at a profit in December,  1947.He admitted that he had bought the property with a(1)  34 T. C. 389, 393.855view  to resale, and had instructed his agents to  sell	 thesame  whenever	a suitable purchaser was  forthcoming.	 Theassessee  was made liable for tax in respect of	 the  profitmade  by  him on the resale.  On an appeal by  the  assesseebefore	the General Commis- 7 sioners, it was  contended  onhis  behalf that the profit on the resale was  not  taxable.On   behalf  of	 the  Crown,  it  was  contended  that	 thetransaction of purchase and sale in question, constituted anadventure  in the nature of trade, and that, therefore,	 theprofits	 arising out of the transaction, were chargeable  toincome-tax.    The  General  Commissioners,   being   eqallydivided,  allowed the appeal.  It was held by the  Court  ofSession (First Division) that the fact that the property waspurchased  with	 a  view  to resale,  did  not,	 of  itself,establish  that	 the  transaction was an  adventure  in	 thenature	of trade, and that, therefore, the determination  bythe  Commissioners  was justifiable in law.  The  Court,  incoming	to  that  conclusion, took  into  account  the	con-siderations  that the respondent was not a  property  agent,and  that his business was not, in any way, associated	withthe  purchase  and  sale of estates.   It  was	an  isolatedtransaction, even though the assessee had purchased a  hoteland  sold it again ten years previously.  The Court  made  areference  to the following observations of Lord  Buckmasterin the case of Leeming v. Jones (1):-"............ an accretion to capital does not become incomemerely because the original capital was invested in the hopeand  expectation that it would rise in value; if it does  sorise, its realization does not make it income."Placing that decision along-side of the present case, let ussee what its salient features are.  Though the appellant  isengaged in various types of business as a share-holder or  adirector in limited liability concerns, as also in  buildingcontracts,  dealing in landed estates is not in the line  ofhis business.  If such a transaction were in the line of hisbusiness,   it	would  not  matter  much  whether,  in	 theassessment  year, he had several such transactions  or	onlyone.  Even a single(1)  (1930) A. C. 4I5, 420.856transaction  of dealing in landed estates, being a  part  ofhis business, would be liable to income-tax, if a profit  ismade in that transaction.  But., admittedly, the transactionin question is the only one of its kind, ,rout of which	 theappellant  has made a considerable profit which	 appears  tohave been in the nature of a windfall.	When he entered intothe agreement with the Society for the purchase of the plot,in  January,  1946, he had expected that at the end  of	 theWorld  War, the Government would release the  property	fromits requisition, and that the Society will develop the	landby laying the necessary roads and providing other  amenitiesto the plot-holders.  But as the Government did not  releasethe  property, and as the appellant was a  businessman,	 whowas  interested	 in return from his capital, and as  he	 hadalready	 paid Rs. 32,000 odd by way of advance	towards	 thepurchase  price,  and as in 1947, at the end of	 the  SecondWorld  War,  his  business in contracts	 for  building	con-structions,  began  to decline, he,  naturally,	 thought  ofmaking	the best of the bargain.  If he did not get  out  ofthe  transaction, his financial difficulties in meeting	 hisfurther	 liabilities  under the agreement, as  a  result  ofslump  in  his	main line of business,	might  lead  to	 theforfeiture  of	the  advance of Rs.  32,000  odd,  he  wouldnaturally  be on the lookout for a good purchaser.   He	 waslucky to find a lady with a lot of money to spare, who	had,as he alleged, taken a fancy to the plot in question.  Thus,he could assign to her the benefit of his agreement with theSociety on terms which were highly profitable to him.  Thereis  no	clear evidence in support of the  inference  of	 theAppellate Tribunal that the land was purchased with the soleintention  of  selling it later at a profit.   The  Tribunalconsidered two alternatives in relation to this transaction-one,  that  the	 land  was purchased in	 order	to  build  aresidential house, and the second, that it was purchased  inhope  of selling it later for a profit.	 The first  alterna-tive, the Tribunal rejected on the ground that " be does notseem  to  have	very much of means at  his  disposal."	Thatitself	is a statement which does not bear  close  scrutiny.During the two years previous to the year under	 assessment,the appellant had857been assessed to income-tax on Rs. 53,000/- and Rs. 59,000/-,  as already indicated.  That does not lend countenance  tothe  surmise  that  the appellant was not a  man  of  means.Admittedly, he held marketable shares of the value of  about2  1/2 lacs of rupees, though all those shares	standing  inhis  name, were not claimed by him as his omn.	 Apparently,he   was  carrying  on	a  lucrative  business	during	 theimmediately preceding years.  It is true that in the year ofassessment, on his own showing in his income-tax return,  hehad suffered a loss, but that may have been a turning  pointin his fortunes, and that would not necessarily lead to	 theinference  that he was not in a sound financial position  onthe date of the agreement with the Society.  It may be	thathis  hopes  of flourishing in his business in the  years  tocome,  were not realized after the conclusion of the  SecondWorld War.  But even assuming that the Tribunal was right inits  conclusion as to the second alternative,  namely,	thatthe  purchase was made in the hope of making a profit  afterre-sale, the matter is not concluded.  In this connection, areference may be made again to the decision in Commissionersof  Inland Revenue v. Reinhold (supra), at p. 392, where  itwas argued on behalf of the Revenue that a profit made in  atransaction which was in the nature of an investment in	 thehope and expectation of a rise in price, may be an accretionof  capital,  but that if at the time of the  purchase,	 thepurchaser had resolved to sell the property in the event  ofa profit being made, and instructions had been issued to hisagents	accordingly,  the transaction could  not  have	beentreated as an investment, but was truly an adventure in	 thenature	of trade, and the profit thus made, must be  treatedas  income.   This argument was not accepted as	 valid.	  Inthat  connection,  reference  was  made	 to  the   followingobservations  of  Lord	Dunedin, in the	 case  of  Jones  v.Leeming (1) :-"............  The fact that a man does not mean to hold  aninvestment  may	 be  an item of	 evidence  tending  to	showwhether he is carrying on a trade or(1) (1930) A. C. 415, P. 423.108858concern	 in  the nature of trade in respect of	his  invest-ments, but per se it leads to no conclusion whatever."The decision of the House of Lords in the case afore.  said,which  is  also	 reported in 15 T. C. 333,  is	rather	ins.tructive.   In	that case, the appellant was a member  of  asyndicate of four persons, formed to acquire an option	overa  rubber estate, with a view to selling at a  profit.	 Theoption was secured, but the estate was considered to be	 toosmall for re-sale.  An option over another joint estate	 wasaccordingly  secured, and it was decided to resell  the	 twoestates	 to a public company to be formed for  the  purpose.Another	 member	 of the syndicate undertook to	arrange	 forpromotion  of  the  company.  The  syndicate's	rights	weretransferred  to	 a company.  This  company  floated  anothercompany to which the properties were sold.  The	 syndicate'sprofits were divided between the members, and the appellant,as  one	 of the members of the syndicate,  was	assessed  toincome-tax  in	respect of his shares of the  profits.	 TheGeneral	 Commissioners, on appeal, were of the opinion	thatthe  interest in the property in question had been  acquiredwith the sole object of making a profit, and that there	 wasno  intention  of holding it as an investment.	 Hence,	 theassessment  to	income-tax was affirmed.  The  King's  BenchDivision,  at  the first hearing, remitted the case  to	 theGeneral Commissioners for a finding as to whether there	 wasa  concern  in the nature of trade,  and  the  Commissionersfound  that the transaction was not such a concern.  It	 washeld by the House of Lords that the profits were not  liableto tax on the basis that they were income from an  adventurein the nature of trade.	 Viscount Dunedin, in the course  ofhis opinion, referred, with apparent approval, to the dictumin Ryall v. Noare (1), to the following effect:"  A  casual profit made on an isolated purchase  and  sale,unless	merged with similar transactions in the carrying  onof a trade or business is not liable to tax."He also approved of the following dictum of Lawrence, L. J.,in the case of Leeming v. Jones (2) :_(1) (1923) 2 K.	 B. 447, 454.(2) (1930) 1 K.B. 270, 302,859"  It seems to me in the case of an isolated transaction  ofpurchase  and re-sale of property there is really no  middlecourse	open.	It is either an adventure in the  nature  oftrade,	or else it is simply a case of sale and	 re-sale  ofproperty."Lord  Warrington of Clyffe, in the course of his opinion  inthe  case  of  Jones  v. Leeming  (1),	made  the  followingobservations,  which apply with full force to the facts	 andcircumstances of the present case:'"  Here	 we  have a case of the acquisition of	an  item  ofproperty  and  a  profit made by  the  transfer	 thereof  toanother.   In this I can find nothing but a  profit  arisingfrom  an  accretion  in value of the  item  of	property  inquestion and the realization of such enhanced value.   Thereis in this nothing in the nature of revenue or income.	 Thefact  that  the parties intended from the first	 to  make  aprofit	if  they  could does not in my	opinion	 affect	 thequestion we have to determine."As already indicated, the line of demarcation between  casesof isolated transactions of purchase and sale being venturesin  the	 nature	 of  trade, and those  which  are  not	suchventures,  if any, is very thin.  The cases in which  singletransactions  have been held not to belong to the  class  ofventures  in the nature of trade, have been  noticed  above,and  the considerations which led those courts to hold	thatsuch  ventures were not liable to income-tax, apply  to	 thecase  in  hand.	 On the other side of the line, there  is  aseries of cases in which single transactions have been	heldto  have been ventures in the nature of trade,	for  reasonswhich do not apply to the present case.	 We may notice	someof the typical cases which illustrate the reasons for  whicha  single  transaction	was brought within the	ambit  of  aventure	 in  the nature of trade.  The case  of	 CalifornianCopper	Syndicate (Limited and Reduced) v. Harris  (Surveyorof Taxes) (2), related to the purchase and sale of a  miningproperty.   In that case, a company had been formed for	 thepurpose,  inter alia, of acquiring and re-selling  a  miningproperty.  That company acquired some mining property(1) (1930) A.C. 415, 425.(2) 5 T.C. 159.860and sold the same to a second company, consideration for thesale  being  paid-up shares of the latter company.   It	 washeld  by the Court of Exbhequer (Scotland) Second  Division,that the difference between the purchase price and the valueof shares for which the property was exchanged was a  profitassessable  to incometax.  It was pointed out by  the  Courtthat  the case involved a deal which was a  "proper  tradingtransaction,  one  within the Company's	 power	under  theirArticles,  and contemplated as well as authorised  by  theirArticles  ". The ratio of the decision in that case  appearsto  have  been that though it was a  single  transaction  inwhich profit was made, it was an adventure in the nature  oftrade,	being  in the line of the business  adopted  by	 thecompany.   The next case of Martin v. Lowry (1)	 is  anotherinstance  of  a single transaction of purchase	of  propertybeing  treated	as  a venture in the  nature  of  trade,  onaccount	 of the very nature and magnitude of  the  commoditydealt in by a person whose usual line of business was whollyoutside	 the scope of the new venture.	That was a  case  inwhich a wholesale agricultural machinery merchant, who neverhad  any  dealings  in	linen  trade,  purchased  from	 theGovernment  its	 surplus stock of aeroplane linen  (some  44million	 yards).  In order to dispose of this huge stock  oflinen  purchased  by  him, the	assessee  embarked  upon  anextensive  advertising campaign, rented offices and  engagedexpert	 staff	to  organize  the  sales.   The	 number	  oftransactions  of sale of that huge stock of linen, ran	intothousands.  The House of Lords affirmed the determination ofthe  courts below, holding that the transaction amounted  tothe  carrying  on  of  a trade of  which  the  profits	werechargeable  to income-tax and Excess Profits Duty.   Anothercase  in  the same volume, is The  Commissioners  of  InlandRevenue	 v.  Livingston and others (2).	 In that  case,	 thepersons	 sought	 to  be	 taxed	were,  a  ship	repairer,  ablacksmith and a fish salesman's employee, who joined in theventure	 of  purchasing	 a  cargo  vessel  with	 a  view  toconverting  it into a steam-drifter, and selling  it.	Thatwas a new line of business for them.(1) 11 T.C. 297.(2) 11 T.C. 538.861Extensive  repairs and alterations to the ship were  carriedout, and the result was a sale of the converted vessel at  aprofit.	  It  was  held	 that  the  transaction,  though  anisolated  one,	was a venture in the nature  of	 trade,	 andthus, liable to income-tax.  The ratio of  the	decision wasstated in the following words of the Lord President:-"  If the venture was one consisting simply in	an  isolatedpurchase  of some article against an expected rise in  priceand a subsequent sale it might be impossible to say that theventure	 was  'in the nature of trade' ;  because  the	onlytrade  in the nature of which it could participate would  bethe  trade  of	a  dealer in such  articles,  and  a  singletransaction  falls as far short of constituting	 a  dealer'strade, as the appearance of a single swallow does. of makinga  summer.  The trade of a dealer necessarily consists of  acourse of dealing, either actually engaged in or at any ratecontemplated and intended to continue."The case of Rutledge v. The Commissioners of Inland  Revenue(1),  is  another illustration of a case in which  a  singletransaction  of	 purchase  and	sale,  was  held  to  be  anadventure  in  the nature of trade for the reason  that	 thecommodity purchased was of such a nature and of such a	vastmagnitude that it could not have possibly been intended	 forthe consumption of the purchaser himself or his family.	  Inthat  case,  the assessee was a money-lender  who  was	alsointerested  in	a cinema company.  In the  interest  of	 hiscinema business, he happened to be in Berlin, and there tookthe  opportunity  of purchasing, for a very cheap  price,  avery  large quantity (one million rolls) of toilet  paperforpound 1,000-and realised pound ,12,000 by sale of that	com-modity.	  He was taxed on the nett profit of  pound  10,895.It  was	 held  by  the Court  of  Session,  Scotland  (FirstDivision),  that it was certainly an adventure, because	 theassessee  made himself liable for the purchase of that	vastquantity of toilet paper, obviously for no other conceivablepurpose	 than that of re-selling it for a large profit.	  Asregards the question whether the adventure was in the natureof trade, it was contended(1)  14 T.C. 490.862on behalf of the assessee that it was essential to the	ideaof trade that there should be a continuous series of tradingoperations.  The Court rightly pointed out that the questionwas  not  whether  it was a trade but `	 Whether  it  was  aventure	 in the nature of trade.  Hence, though	 the  singletransaction  of purchase and sale, may not have amounted  towhat  is  ordinarily understood by trade in the sense  of  aseries	of transactions, it was certainly a venture  in	 thenature	of  trade,  because from  the  very  beginning,	 theintention was manifest that the purchase was made not with aview to utilizing the commodity for the personal use of	 thepurchaser,  but	 with a view to making profit by  a  resale,which was apparent from the very nature and magnitude of thecommodity purchased.  Another illustration of the same	ruleis to be found in the case of The Balgownie Land Trust, Ltd.v.  The Commissioners of Inland Revenue (1).  That  was	 thecase  of  a landed estate which was left by  the  owner	 to.trustees  with a direction to sell it.	The trustees,  beingunsuccessful  in their efforts to sell the estate, formed  acompany	 with general powers to deal in real  property,	 andtransferred  the estate to this company.  The  company	madecertain other purchases of property by way of accretions  tothe original estate.  The property was sold in parts  duringthe  years  1921,  1924, 1926 and  1927.   The	company	 wasassessed  to  income-tax for the profits from the  sales  ofthose  lands.  The Court, confirming the assessment  of	 thecompany	 to income-tax on the profits made on  those  sales,held  that the company was doing precisely what it meant  todo,  namely, carrying on business of a company dealing in  areal estate.  The case of Commissioners of Inland Revenue v.Fraser	(2), is another illustration of the rule that  if  aperson enters into a single transaction outside his ordinaryavocation  of life, with the sole object of making a  profitby  re-sale, it may amount to an adventure in the nature  oftrade.	 In -that case, a wood-cutter bought,  for  re-sale,whisky	in large quantities, and without taking delivery  ofthe whisky, sold it at a profit.  It was the assessee's sole(1) 14 T.C. 684.(2) 24 T.C. 498.863dealing	 in  whisky,  but all the same, it was	held  to  beliable	to income-tax on the ground that the nature  of	 thetransaction,  with  reference to the commodity dealt  in  inlarge  quantities, which would not ordinarily be  meant	 forpersonal or family consumption, may  indicate that it was anadventure in the nature of trade.We  have set out the illustrative cases on the two sides  ofthe  thin line of demarcation that may possibly be  said  todistinguish one class of case from the other.  The  questionstill  remains, on which side of the line, the present	caseshould	be  placed ? The  learned  Solicitor-General  placedstrong	reliance on the recent decision of this Court in  G.Venkataswami  Naidu & Co. v. The Commissioner of  Income-tax(supra).   The question, therefore, is whether	the  presentcase  falls  on	 the same side of the  line  as	 the  recentdecision  of  this Court, which had to deal with  a  similarquestion,  as already indicated. In that case, the  assesseehad purchased four plots under four different deeds.  Duringthe time that the assessee was in possession of those plots,he  made no efforts to put up any structures, or to  utilizethem  in  other	 ways.	 The assessee  was  in	a  fiduciaryposition  with	the  Mills contiguous  to  which  the  plotspurchased, were; and it was also found that the assessee wasin a position to influence the Mills to purchase those plotsat a price favourable to him.  It was in that setting of thefacts, that this Court made the following obser-vations"When s. 2, sub-s. (4) refers to an adventure in the  natureof  trade  it clearly suggests that the	 transaction  cannotproperly  be regarded as trade or busi. ness.  It is  alliedto  transactions that constitute trade or business  but	 maynot be trade or business itself It is characterized by	somepB`= of the essential features that makeup trade or businessbut not by all of them; and so, even an isolated transactioncan satisfy the description of an adventure in the nature oftrade."Can   it  be  said,  in	 the  setting  of  the	 facts	 andcircumstances  of the present case, set out above, that	 thetransaction in question has such characteristics-as864to  point  to  the conclusion that itwas a  venture  in	 thenature of trade ? It was suggested that the area of the landin  question,  namely,	three quarters of  an  acre  in	 thesuburbs	 of Calcutta, was large enough to indicate that	 theassessee would not have intended to take it for his own	 useand  occupation.   In the first place, the area	 is  not  solarge as to lead necessarily to the inference that it  couldnot  have  been meant to be used by him in -the way  of	 hisbusiness or for his own residence.  Certainly, the  Society,having acquired more than 500 bighas of land in a lot, couldnot  claim that the land was meant for its own use.  On	 theother side, it was meant to be developed into small buildingsites,	as they actually did.  But the Society had,  withoutdeveloping the area, sub-divided it into building sites, oneof which was sought to be acquired by the appellant.  He wascarrying   on  an  engineering	concern,  and  it  is	not,therefore,  unlikely  that  he	may  have  intended,  as  healleged, to put up a small workshop on a portion of the landto  be acquired, and to build his own residential  house  onthe other portion.  It was not suggested that the  appellanthad  his own house in Calcutta, and was, therefore,  not  inneed  of a building site.  At the time he entered  into	 theagreement  of purchase with the Society, he was	 doing	goodbusiness,  as is shown by the large amounts on which he	 wasassessed  to  income-tax.  It was not unnatural for  him  tolook forward to continue his business in as prosperous a wayas he had been doing in the recent past, and thus, to  raisesufficient  funds to build his own residential house, or  toconstruct  a  workshop	for his	 own  engineering  business.Hence, the possibility or the probability that the site	 mayappreciate  in value, would not necessarily lend  itself  tothe  inference	that the transaction was a  venture  in	 thenature of trade, as distinguished from a capital investment.In all the circumstances of this case, the total  impressioncreated on our mind, is that it has not been made out by theDepartment that the dominant intention of the appellant	 wasto  embark  on	a venture in the nature of  trade,  when  heentered	 into  the agreement which resulted in	the  profitssought to be taxed.865For  the aforesaid reasons, we would allow this appeal,	 andset aside the orders of the Tribunal below with costs.KAPUR, J.-I regret I am unable to agree. that the appeal  inthe  present  -case  should be allowed and  my	reasons	 arethese:	On  the	 facts	which  were  proved  the  Income-taxAppellate Tribunal came to the conclusion that the  purchaseof  land by the appellant was an adventure in the nature  oftrade and profit arising therefrom was assessable to income-tax.   In coming to this conclusion the	 Appellate  Tribunaltook  into  consideration certain facts; (1) that  the	onlypayment the appellant made for the purchase of the land	 wasof  a sum of Rs. 32,748 which he borrowed from	his  companyand  he	 was  not in a position to pay the  balance  of	 Rs.98,246; (2) the appellant had no money available at all,  topay  the part of the purchase price of Rs. 1,30,994  and  behad no means to construct the house ; (3) that his financialresources  were such as not to justify the purchase  of	 theplot  of land for the construction of a house; (4) the	siteitself	fetched	 no income but it was a kind  of  investmentwith the hope of making a profit out of it and the land	 waspurchased  only	 for  the  purpose of  sale;  (5)  that	 theappellant being a keen businessman had intimate knowledge ofthe  trend of the rise in prices of land and  therefore	 thepurpose for which he made the purchase was in order to	makeprofit and not merely an investment.As against these circumstances various facts were brought toour notice which it has argued militate against the findingsof the Tribunal : (1) that the appellant was carrying on  anengineering  concern and therefore it was not unlikely	thathe  intended, as he alleged, to put up a small	workshop  onthat  portion of land; (2) that the appellant did  not	havehis  own house in Calcutta and therefore he could have	beenin  need of a piece of land on which he could build a  houseand  (3) that at the time -he entered into an  agreement  ofpurchase he had a prosperous business which is ,shown by theamount of income-tax which he paid for109866two years and he could legitimately expect that his businesswould  continue to remain prosperous; (4) that	these  factscould  not  lead  to  the  necessary  consequence  that	 thetransaction  was a venture in the  nature of trade and	thatit  was not the dominant intention of the appellant  at	 thetime  when he entered into the transaction to embark upon  aventure in the nature of trade.Under the Income-tax law it is the exclusive function of theAppellate Tribunal to find facts.  Even though the powers ofthis Court under Art. 136 are very wide yet they have to  beexercised within the limits imposed by the decisions of thisCourt  and one such limitation is that this Court  will	 notordinarily  interfere  with findings of fact.  It  has	beenheld by this Court that the question whether an adventure isin  the nature of a trade or not is a mixed question of	 lawand  fact.  The facts have to be found by  the	fact-findingauthority  and to those facts the law has to be applied	 andwhenever  it  is  necessary to get a correct  finding  on  aquestion  of fact it is the fact finding authority which  iscalled	upon to consider the evidence and give its  finding.(See  G.  Venkataswami Naidu & Co. v.  The  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax (1)).  Therefore if there arose a question of lawout  of	 the  order  of	 the  Appellate	 Tribunal  then	 theappellant  could have had the case stated to the High  Courtunder  s.  66(1) and if the Appellate  Tribunal	 refused  tostate the case it was open to the appellant to have the casestated	under  s. 66(2) of the Indian  Income-tax  Act.	  Nodoubt  he did make an application to the Appellate  Tribunalto  state  the case under s. 66(1) but he did not  make	 anyapplication  to	 the  High Court till  1957,  after  he	 hadobtained  special  leave in this Court and  the	 High  Courtdismissed  the petition on the ground that it was barred  bytime.  The position comes to this that the tribunal  refusedto  state the case under s. 66(1) of the Income-tax Act	 andthe appellant did not apply to the High Court under s. 66(2)till  long after the period of limitation had  expired.	  Inthe circumstances the courses open to this(1) A.I.R. (1959) S.C. 359.867Court  would be (1) to set aside the order of the  AppellateTribunal and remit the case to the Tribunal for decision  inaccordance  with the observations made by this Court as	 wasdone  in  the  case  of	 Omar  Saly  Mohammed  Sait  v.	 TheCommissioner  of  Income-tax (1) or it may be open  to	thisCourt  to  direct  a reference as was  done  in	 Jagta	CoalCompany	 v.  The Commissioner of Income-tax  (2).   Then  inDhakeswari  Cotton Mills v. The Commissioner  of  Income-tax(3)  this  Court  only remitted the case  to  the  AppellateTribunal  to  proceed in accordance with law on	 the  groundthat certain principles of natural justice had been violatedand  the assessee was not given an opportunity to rebut	 theevidence against him.The  Income-tax	 law  has prescribed  a	 procedure  to	havequestions  of law determined and an assessee cannot  byepassthe  various steps prescribed under that law.  The  positiontherefore  comes  to this that if there is  no	evidence  tosupport	 the finding the question is one of law which  wouldfall under ss. 66(1) and 66(2) of the Income-tax Act; (2) ifin  giving  its finding the  Appellate	Tribunal  disregardscertain pieces of evidence or proceeds in a manner which  isviolative  of natural justice the finding will	be  vitiatedbut if there is evidence to support the finding of fact	 andthese  findings	 are properly arrived at then it will  be  apure  question of fact which this Court will not  ordinarilyinterfere with ; (3) if there is an error of law arising  asabove or because of misinterpretation of the Income-tax	 lawthen  the  case has to be stated to the High  Court  in	 themanner	provided in the Income-tax Act and if  the  assesseedoes  not choose to follow the procedure prescribed then  hecannot	come to this Court disregarding the remedy  providedby  the	 Income-tax law and (4) the legal  effect  of  factsfound where the point for determination is a mixed  questionof  law	 and  fact would fall under s. 66(1) &	(2)  of	 theIncome-tax  Act.  (See G. Venkataswami Naidu &	Co.  v.	 TheCommissioner of Income-tax (4) ).This is a case in which certain essential facts have(1)  C.A. No. 15 Of 1958(2)  C. A. NO. 337 Of 1956.(3)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 941.(4)  A.I.R. (1959) S.C. 359.868not been considered by the Appellate Tribunal and  thereforeit  is	a case which should be remitted	 to  the  Income-taxAppellate Tribunal to determine the facts in accordance withthe  observations made by this ,,Court and in the  light  ofthose  findings to determine whether the transaction was  anadventure in the nature of a trade or not.I would order accordingly.ORDER OF THE COURTIn  view  of  the opinion of the  majority,  the  appeal  isallowed with costs.