PETITIONER:BURN & CO., CALCUTTA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THEIR EMPLOYEES(and connected appeal)DATE OF JUDGMENT:11/10/1956BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, S.K.MENON, P. GOVINDACITATION: 1957 AIR   38		  1956 SCR  781ACT:Industrial Dispute-Tribunal's award-Term of operation-If andwhen  can be reopened in a subsequent  dispute-Principle  ofres  judicata, if applicable-Bonus-Claim when  maintainable-Order  passed by the Appellate	Tribunal-Appealability-Powerof  Supreme Court in appeal-Industrial Disputes Act (XIV  of1947), s. 19(6)Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal)	 Act(XLVIII	 of  1950), s. 7(1)(a)-Constitution of	India,	Art.136.HEADNOTE:An  award  of an Industrial Tribunal is intended to  have  along  term of operation, and can be reopened under s.  19(6)of  the Industrial Disputes Act-XIV of 1947 only when  therehas been a material change in the circumstances on which  itwas based.To  hold otherwise would be to defeat the two basic  objectswhich  all industrial legislations have in view, namely,  toensure to the workmen, a fair return for their labour and toprevent	 disputes  between the employers and  employees,  sothat  production might not be affected and the interests  ofthe society might not suffer.That  although the rule of res judicata as enacted by s.  11of  the Code of Civil Procedure does not in terms  apply  tosuch an award, its underlying principle which is founded  onsound  public  policy and is of universal  application	mustapply.The  Army  &  Navy Stores Ltd.,	 Bombay	 v.  Their  Workmen,([1951]	 2  L.L.J. 31) and Ford Motor Co. of India  Ltd.  v.Their Workmen, ([1951] 2 L.L.J. 231), approved and applied.Sheoparson Singh v. Bamnandan Prasad Singh, ([1916] L.R.  43I.A. 91), referred to.Consequently,  where, as in the instant case, the  Union  ofthe employees of a certain section of the appellant  Companyserved	a  notice on the Company under s. 19(6) of  the	 Actterminating  a	previous  award which  had  applied  to	 itsmembers	 the scales of pay and dearness allowance  fixed  bythe  Bengal Chamber of Commerce with  slight  modifications,and  demanded that the more favourable Scale of pay  adoptedby the Mercantile Tribunal in its award might be applied  tothem, and the Tribunal appointed to adjudicate the  dispute,held that, there having been no change in the  circumstancesin  which  the previous award had been made,  the  same	 wasbinding	 between the parties and could not be modified,	 butthe Appel-102782late Tribunal in appeal held otherwise and brushed aside theprevious  award,  held	that  the  order  of  the  AppellateTribunal  was erroneous in law and as such liable to be	 setaside.Hold further, that the reason for the grant of a bonus beingthat  the  workers  should  be	allowed	 to  share  in	 theprosperity  to	which  they  have  contributed,	 unless	 theprofits for a particular year were adequate for a payment ofbonus to all the workers of the Company in all its sections,no claim for it could at all arise either in law or equity.Karam Chand Thappar & Bros.' Workmen v. The Company  ([1953]L.A.C. 152), referred to.That an order passed by the Tribunal refusing  reinstatementwould  be  appealable  under s. 7(1)(a)	 of  the  IndustrialDisputes  (Appellate Tribunal) Act of 1960 if it involved  asubstantial  question  of law and it was  not  necessary  todecide	in  the	 present case whether the  decision  of	 theAppellate  Tribunal  that  an appeal lay to  it	 under	thatsection was final and not open to question in a civil court,as  the	 correctness  of that decision	was  challenged	 notcollaterally  or  in  an independent proceeding	 but  in  anappeal under Art. 136 of the Constitution and it was open tothe Supreme Court in such an appeal to consider the legalityor otherwise of the orders passed either by the Tribunal  orby the Appellate Tribunal in appeal.Pankaj Kumar Ganguli v. The Bank of India, ([1966] 60 C.W.N.602)  and  Upper Ganges Valley Electric Employees  Union  v.Upper Ganges Valley Electricity Supply Co. Ltd. and another,(A.I.R. 1956 All. 491), distinguished.That the omission to draw up a formal charge-sheet against aworkman	 could not vitiate an order of dismissal if  he	 wasaware	of  the	 charge	 framed	 against  him  and  had	  anopportunity of offering his explanation.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 325 of 1955and 174 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the decision and	order  datedthe  29th  April 1955 of the Labour  Appellate	Tribunal  ofIndia at Calcutta in Appeal No. Calcutta-110 of 1953 arisingout  of the award dated 24th June, 1953, of  the  IndustrialTribunal, Calcutta.M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, B. Sen, S.  N.Mukherji and B. N. Ghosh for M/s.  Burn & Co.N.   C.	 Chatterji, A. K. Dutt and B. P. Maheshwari for	 theworkmen.7831956.  October 11.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyVENKATARAMA AYYAR J.--.Disputes having arisen between MessrsBurn and Company, Calcutta, hereinafter called the  Company,and  a	section	 of their employees in	Howrah	Iron  Works,hereinafter referred to as the Union, the Government of WestBengal	issued	a notification on 16-12-1952  referring	 thesame  to  the First Industrial	Tribunal  for  adjudication.Though	there  were  as many as 13 items  comprised  in	 thereference, we are concerned in these appeals only with	fourof  them,  viz., (1) revision of pay of	 clerical  and	sub-staff, (2) grades of sarkars and checkers, (3) bonus and (4)reinstatement	of   four  employees,  S.   N.	 Chatterjee,Ashimananda  Banerjee,	Panchanan Rana and  Joydeb  Banerjeeand/or payment of compensation-to them.	 By his award  dated24-6-1953,  Shri Banerji, the Industrial Tribunal, held	 (1)that there were no grounds for revising the scale of pay  ofthe  clerical  and sub-staff; (2) that the pay	of  checkersshould	be increased and that they should be paid  accordingto  the scale as set out in his award; (3) that the  profitsof  the	 Company did not warrant the grant of any  bonus  inaddition to what had been paid by the Company; and (4)	thatof  the four employees, Shambunath Chatterjee should be	 re-employed  as  a	 checker on his old  pay,  that	 AshimanandaBanerjee and Panchanan Rana should be "re-employed in  postsequivalent  to their own posts as new incumbents"  and	thatJoydeb Banerjee was not entitled either to reinstatement  orcompensation.Against	 this  award, the Union preferred an appeal  to	 theLabour Appellate Tribunal.  By its decision dated  29-4-1955the  Appellate Tribunal substantially modified the award  ofShri  Banerji  in favour of the Union it held (1)  that	 theminimum pay of the clerical and sub-staff should be  raised,and that corresponding changes should be made in the ceilinglevel,	in the increments and in the scales of pay of  othergrades	of  the	 staff; (2) that the scale  of	pay  of	 thesarkars and checkers should be increased and incre-784ments  given  as  laid	down in	 the  award;  (3)  that	 theemployees should be paid a month's bonus in addition to whathad  been  given  to them; and (4) that	 of  the  employees,Shambunath  Chatterjee, Ashimananda Banerjee  and  PanchananRana  should not merely be re-employed but  reinstated	withcontinuity   of	  service,  and	 that	further	  ShambunathChatterjee  was entitled to compensation at the rate of	 sixmonths' basic wages with dearness allowance.  As for  JoydebBanerjee,  the	Appellate  Tribunal  held  that	 though	 hisreinstatement  was  not desirable, he was  entitled  to	 oneyear's basic wages with dearness allowance as  compensation.Against	 this  decision,  the Company  has  preferred  CivilAppeal	No. 325 of 1955 by special leave, and the Union	 haslikewise  preferred Civil Appeal No. 174 of 1956, the  leavebeing limited in the latter to the four points raised by theCompany in its appeal.(1)  The  first	 question  relates to the  increase  in	 theminimum wages of the clerical and sub-staff.  For a  correctunderstanding of the true position, it is necessary to referto  the	 facts	which form the	background  of	the  presentdispute.   In 1946, the Bengal chamber of Commerce  took  upthe  question of fixing, suitably to the changed  conditionsbrought	 about	by World War II, wages and  other  terms  ofservice of the employees in industrial concerns, and  frameda  scheme classifying them under different  categories,	 andfixing scales of pay and dearness allowance for the  severalcategories,  and that was brought into force in the  Companyon  1-10-1946.	Under this scheme, the scale of pay for	 thelower categories of employees, with	whom	 we	 areconcerned in  these appeals, was as	follows:Class- of employees Basic monthly pay range     Junior clerks  Rs. 60-2-90     Tracers   60-2-80     Clerks    60-4-124 (E. B. at 105)     Typists   60-4-90     Steno-typists     Comptometer    80-4-124 (E. B. at 105)       Operators	   785Juniors (Drg. and Estg.)60-4-88-2-100     Junior Draftsmen	 92-4-124-2-134     Junior EstimatorsrDisputes  then arose between Engineering Firms in the  Stateof  West Bengal and their employees as regards	fixation  ofgrades, wages and dearness allowance, and by a	notificationdated  31-10-1947  the	Government  referred  them  to	 theadjudication   of  the	First  Engineering  Tribunal.	 Theappellant  Company  and	 its workmen  were  parties  to	 theproceedings but not the present Union, which was composed ofthe  clerical  and  sub-staff.	On  30-6-1948  the  Tribunalpassed	an award, the terms whereof were, in  general,	lessfavourable  to the employees than those fixed by the  BengalChamber of Commerce and adopted by the Company on 1-10-1946.While the proceedings were, pending before the	 EngineeringTribunal, disputes arose between-various Mercantile Firms inCalcutta  and  their employees as  regards  wages,  dearnessallowance  and other terms of service, and  by	notificationdated 17-1-1948 the Government of West Bengal referred	themto   the  adjudication	of  another  Tribunal,	called	 theMercantile Tribunal.  This Tribunal pronounced its award  on26-8-1949,  and	 the scale of pay provided therein  for	 thelower categories of employees was as follows:Grade D Rs. 70-3-130Grade C Rs. 70-4-134The  Union was party No. 192 in those proceedings,  but	 fortechnical  reasons, the Tribunal declined to  adjudicate  ontheir disputes.	 The result was that this award was no	morebinding	  on  the  parties  than  the  one  passed  by	 theEngineering  Tribunal.	But the scale fixed in the award  ofthe Mercantile Tribunal was decidedly more favourable to theemployees  than either the scale recommended by	 the  BengalChamber of Commerce and adopted by the Company on  1-10-1946or that fixed in the award of the Engineering Tribunal,	 andit -is therefore not surprising that it should have inspiredthe Union to present a demand786for  wages  and dearness allowance on  the  scales  providedtherein.   The Company having declined to accept  it,  therearose an industrial dispute, and by a notification dated 18-1-1950, the Government of West Bengal referred the same	 foradjudication to one Shri Palit, District Judge.	 Before him,the Company contended that as the members of the Union	wereemployees  in  an  Engineering concern,	 the  scale  of	 payapplicable  to' them was that laid down in the award of	 theEngineering  Tribunal,	and that as the	 scale	actually  inforce was more favourable to them than that scale, there wasno  ground  for	 revision.  The Union, on  the	other  hand,contended  that not having been a party to  the	 proceedingsbefore	the  Engineering Tribunal, it was not bound  by	 theaward  therein, and that as its members were clerical  staffand  not  workers,  the scales fixed in	 the  award  of	 theMercantile  Tribunal were more appropriate to them.  By	 hisaward dated 12-6-1950 shri Palit held that the nature of thework  and the qualifications of the clerical staff were	 notthe same in all business establishments, that the clerks  inmercantile concerns were better qualified and had to do moreonerous work than the members of the Union, that the  lattercould  not  be put in the same position as the	former,	 andthat  the  scale of pay fixed in the scheme  of	 the  BengalChamber	 of  Commerce which was adopted by the	Company	 wasfair  and  required  no revision.  He,	however,  made	someslight	changes	 in the incremental scales and	the  maximumlimits	of the grades.	The scheme as settled in  his  awardwith reference to the categories involved in this appeal wasas follows:     Grade Class of employees Pay according to the	  award of Shri Palit"D"   Junior Clerks 60-3-96     Tracers   60-3-90     Clerks    60-4-140 (E.B. at 100)     Typists   60-4-100     Stenotypists and     Comptometer     Operators 80-4-124 (E.B. at 120)787"C"  Junior (Drawingand Estimating) 60-4-120Junior Draftsmen _Junior Estimators 92-4-140.The  Union preferred an appeal against this award, but	thatwas dismissed as barred by limitation.Under  section 19(3) of the Industrial Disputes Act  XIV  of1947,  an  award is to be in operation for a period  of	 oneyear,  and  under  section 19(6), it is to  continue  to  bebinding on the parties even thereafter, until terminated  byeither	party by giving two months' notice.  Acting on	thisprovision, the Union issued a notice to the Company on 12-7-1951 being exactly one year from the date of publication  ofShri Palit's award dated 12-6-1950, declaring its  intentionnot  to	 be bound by it.  This was followed in	November  bypresentation of demands including' one for raising the scaleof pay to the level adopted in the -award of the  MercantileTribunal, and the result was an industrial dispute, which isthe subject-matter of the present reference.  Shri  Banerji,who  heard the ,reference, held that the question as to	 thescale  of  pay had been directly adjudicated  upon  by	ShriPalit,	that, on principle, the decision of a Tribunal on  amatter referred to it should not be disturbed, unless  therehad  been  a change of circumstances since the date  of	 theaward,	and  as none such existed,, the	 wage  structure  asfixed by him should stand.  The Appellate Tribunal disagreedwith this conclusion.  It held that the award of Shri Palit,which Shri Banerji accepted, was bad for the reason that  ithad  failed  to	 examine "the question	as  to	whether	 theminimum salary fixed by the Managing Agents was adequate  tocover  the  cost  of  a balanced  diet	and  provide  frugalcomforts which a workman of the clerical staff must have  tomaintain  the efficiency of his work".	It then referred  tothe  opinion of Dr. Akroyd that an intake of 2,600  caloriesof  food was necessary for efficiency of work,	quoted	somedecisions of the Labour Tribunal in which the minimum pay ofthe  clerical staff had been fixed at Rs. 70 and even  more,and  decided that the minimum pay should be fixed at Rs.  65per788mensem	for  the  clerical and	sub-staff  of  the  Company.Having	raised	the  floor level of the	 wage  structure  asaforesaid,  it correspondingly raised the ceiling level	 andthe scales of increment, and further with a view to maintainthe differential scales as between the different categories,it raised the minimum pay in scales where it stood at Rs. 65and  more, with "consequential change in  their	 incrementalscales and the maximum grades".It  is argued for the appellant Company that  the  AppellateTribunal  was in error in brushing aside the award  of	ShriPalit and in deciding the matter afresh, as if it arose	 forthe  first time for determination, that when once a  disputeis   referred  to  a  Tribunal	and  that  results   in	  anadjudication,  that must be taken as binding on the  partiesthereto, unless there was a change of circumstances, and  asnone  such  had been alleged or proved, the  award  of	shriPalit  should, have been accepted, as indeed it was by	ShriBanerji,  and the decisions in The Army & Navy Stores  Ltd.,Bombay v. Their Workmen(1) and Ford Motor Co. of India, Ltd.v.   Their  Workmen(1)	were  cited  in	 support   of	thiscontention.   In  the  instant case,  the  Labour  AppellateTribunal  dismissed this argument with the observation	thatwas  "a rule of prudence and not of law".  If  the  Tribunalmeant  by this observation that the statute does  not  enactthat an award 'should not be re-opened except on the  groundof  change  of circumstances, that would be  quite  correct.But that is not decisive of the question', because there  isno provision in the statute prescribing when and under	whatcircumstances  an award could be re-opened.   Section  19(4)authorises   the  Government  to  move	the   Tribunal	 forshortening the period during which the award would  operate,if "there has been a material change in the circumstances onwhich it was based".  But this has reference to the  period-of one year fixed under section 19(3) and if that  indicatesanything, it is that would be the proper ground on which theaward  could  be reopened under section 19(6), and  that  iswhat the learned Attorney-General(1) [1951] 2 L.L.J. 31.(2) [1951] 2 L.L.J. 231789contends.   But we propose to consider the question  on	 thefooting that there is nothing in the statute to indicate thegrounds	 on which an award could be reopened.  What then  isthe  position?	 Are  we to hold that an award	given  on  amatter in controversy between the parties after full hearingceases	to  have any force if either of them  repudiates  itunder  section 19(6), and that the Tribunal has	 no  option,when  the matter is again referred to it  for  adjudication,but to proceed to try it de novo, traverse the entire groundonce  again,  and come to a fresh decision.  That  would  becontrary  to the well recognised principle that	 a  decisiononce rendered by a competent authority on a matter in  issuebetween	 the  parties  after a full enquiry  should  not  bepermitted  to be re-agitated.  It is on this principle	thatthe rule of res judicata enacted in section II of the  CivilProcedure  Code	 is based.  That section is,  no  doubt,  interms inapplicable to the present matter, but the  principleunderlying it, expressed in the maxim "interest rei publicaeut sit finis litium", is founded on sound public policy	 andis  of	universal application. (Vide Broom's  Legal  Maxims,Tenth  Edition,	 page. 218).  "The rule of res	judicata  isdictated" observed Sir Lawrence Jenkins, C.J. in  SheoparsanSingh v. Ramnandan Prasad Singh(1)."by a wisdom which is forall  time".  And there are good reasons why  this  principleshould	be applicable to decisions of  Industrial  Tribunalsalso.	Legislation regulating the relation between  Capitaland  Labour has two objects in view.  It seeks to ensure  tothe workmen who have not the capacity to treat with  capitalon  equal  terms, fair returns for their  labour.   It	alsoseeks to prevent disputes between employer and employees, sothat  production  might not be adversely  affected  and	 thelarger	interests of the society might not suffer.  Now,  ifwe are to hold that an adjudication loses its force when  itis  repudiated	under  section	19(6)  and  that  the  wholecontroversy  is at large, then the result would be that	 farfrom  reconciling themselves to the award and settling	downto work it, either party will treat it as a(1)  [1916] L.R. 43 I.A. 91; [1916] I.L.R. 43 Cal. 694. 103103790mere  stage in the prosecution of a prolonged struggle,	 andfar  from bringing industrial peace, the awards	 would	turnout  to	 be  but truces giving the  parties  breathing	timebefore resuming hostile action with renewed vigour.  On	 theother  hand,  if we are to regard them as intended  to	havelong term operation and at the same time hold that they	 areliable	to  be modified by change in  the  circumstances  onwhich they were based, both the purposes of the	 legislaturewould  be served.  That is the view taken by  the  Tribunalsthemselves  in The Army & Navy Stores Ltd., Bombay v.  TheirWorkmen(1)  and	 Ford  Motor  Co. of  India  Ltd.  v.  TheirWorkmen(2),  and  we are of opinion that they lay  down	 thecorrect	 principle, and that there were no grounds  for	 theAppellate Tribunal for not following them.We should add that the Appellate Tribunal was also in  errorin  thinking  that Shri Palit had failed to  advert  to	 theprinciple on which basic wages should be fixed, and that  hehad  not  referred to the doctrine of Dr. Akroyd  about	 theneed for a balanced diet of 2,600 calories.  It is true thatShri  Palit does not in terms refer to these matters in	 hisaward.	 But they were all discussed in the awards  of	boththe  Engineering Tribunal and the Mercantile Tribunal.	 Thedispute between the parties was whether the one award or theother should be taken as the basis for fixation of the scaleof  pay, and Shri Palit decided that it was the	 EngineeringTribunal's award and not the other that was more appropriateto the class of employees, of which the Union was  composed.In  basing  his	 award	on  the	 award	of  the	 EngineeringTribunal,  Shri Palit must be taken to have  considered	 allthe factors relied on by the Tribunal for fixing the  scalesand the criticism that the award does not refer to them onceagain  is  one of form rather than of substance.   We  must,therefore, hold that the decision of the Appellate  Tribunalcannot be maintained even on its own ground.The position then is this: The question of scales of pay wasdecided by Shri Palit in his award dated(1) [1951] 2 L.L.J. 31.(2) [1951] 2 L.L.J. 231.79112-6-1950,  and	 the  Union was a party to it.	 It  is	 notalleged	 that  there has been any  change  in  circumstancesbetween that date and 16-12-1952 when the present  referencewas  made to Shri Banerji.  On the principles stated  above,therefore, the award of Shri Palit should not be disturbed.This  conclusion  would have entailed the  reversal  of	 theorder  of the Appellate Tribunal and the restoration of	 theaward of Shri Banerji.	We are of opinion, however, that thescale fixed by the Appellate Tribunal In its order dated 29-4-1955 should not be interfered with, in so far as it  fixesthe minimum pay of the clerical and sub-staff at Rs. 65	 permensem.	  It  is common ground that  dearness  allowance  ispayable	 under the rules of the Company, only when the	costof  living index exceeds point 180.  The basic wages  shouldtherefore  be fixed with 180 point as cost of living  index.When  we turn to the award of the Engineering  Tribunal,  wefind that it fixed the basic wages after taking the cost  ofliving index as 160 points.  Before Shri Palit, the  Companycontended  that	 the  scale  fixed  in	the  award  of	 theEngineering  Tribunal should form the basis of	fixation  ofthe  pay  scale of the Union, and though the  Tribunal	heldthat  the  award was not as such binding on  the  Union,  itagreed with the Company that it was the scale fixed  thereinand  not that fixed in the award of the Mercantile  Tribunalthat  was  more	 appropriate to the  clerical  staff  of  anEngineering  concern,  and adopted the scale  fixed  by	 theCompany	 on 31-10-1946 as being "slightly in advance of	 theterms contained in the Engineering Tribunal's award".  It isclear from a reading of the award of Shri Palit that he	 wasnot  conscious	that the basic wages had been fixed  by	 theEngineering  Tribunal with point 160 as the cost  of  livingindex,	and  his observation that the scale adopted  by	 theCompany	 was  an advance on that fixed	by  the	 EngineeringTribunal  is consistent only with an assumption by him	thatthe  basic wages bad been fixed both by the Company and	 theEngineering  Tribunal with point 180 as the cost  of  livingindex.	 Now,  if we are to accept the scale  fixed  in	 theaward792of  Shri Palit as did Shri Banerji, the position  would.  bethat  while for purposes of basic wages the cost  of  livingindex point would be 160, for purposes of dearness allowanceit would be 180, and that would work great injustice on	 theworkers.  It is the realisation of this fact that must	haveled  Mr. Bose, counsel for the Company' to raise at  a	latestage  of the hearing of the appeal the contention that	 the'cost  of  living index of the Bengal  Chamber	of  Commercewhich was adopted by the Company was different from that  ofthe  Government.   But	this  contention  went	against	 theadmission  made	 by Mr. Sen on behalf of the Company  at  anearlier	 stage,	 and was rightly rejected by  the  AppellateTribunal  and that was abandoned before us.  There is  thus,on  the	 face  of  the record, an  error  of  a	 fundamentalcharacter.It  is argued for the appellant that this point is not	opento consideration at this stage, as it had not been raised bythe  Union at any time before, and that, in any	 event,	 thematter	should	be remanded for further	 enquiry.   But	 thequestion  is whether in view of what appears on the face  ofthe  record  this  is a fit case  for  our  interference  inspecial	 appeal.   The minimum pay fixed  by  the  AppellateTribunal  would be quite proper if the cost of living  indexis  taken,  for the purpose of fixing the  basic  wages,  atpoint  180  instead of 160, and there is no  reason  why  weshould	not  accept it.	 Nor do we think that  a  remand  iscalled	for in the interests of justice, as, in the face  ofthe undisputed facts, it can only result in the	 proceedingsdragging  on  and  the	relationship  between  the   partiesdeteriorating.	 Under the circumstances, we do not  proposeto disturb the minimum pay of Rs. 65 per mensem fixed by theAppellate Tribunal.  But we see no justification for raisingeither	the  ceiling  levels or the starting  pay  of  othercategories  of employees whose initial	pay was Rs.  65	 permensem	or more.  We accordingly set aside the scale of	 payas fixed by the Appellate Tribunal and restore that of	ShriBanerji subject to the following modifications:Grade D Junior clerks	       Rs. 65-3-98Tracers				   65-3-92	  793     Grade C Clerks	     65-4-141 (E.B.'at 105)     Typists		     65-4-101     Junior (Drawing     and Estimating)	     65-4-121(2)  The  second question relates to the grading of  sarkarsand checkers.  The claim put forward on their behalf is thatthey  should be raised to the category of clerks.  This	 wasrejected  by  Shri Palit in his award  dated  12-6-1950	 andagain  by Shri Banerji in those proceedings.  The  AppellateTribunal   before  whom	 this  claim  was  repeated,   whileobserving that the work of sarkars and checkers was "not  ofthe  same  nature  as that of the members  of  the  clericalstaff", held, nevertheless, that the scales of pay fixed  inthe  award of the Engineering Tribunal for clerks should  beapplied to them, and that therefore non-matriculate  sarkarsand  checkers  should be put on Rs. 55-2  1/2-80  scale	 andmatriculate sarkars and checkers on Rs. 60-2  1/2-90  scale.We are unable to uphold this order.	When	once	 theAppellate Tribunal reached the	   conclusion	 that	 thesarkars	 and checkers could not be put in the same  categoryas  clerks, the question then is simply whether any  groundshad  been made out for interfering with the fixation of	 payscales	by  Shri  Banerji.   So	 far  as  the  sarkars	 areconcerned, the scale had been fixed by Shri Palit, and	ShriBanerji adopted it.  As no change' in the circumstances	 wasalleged	 in  support  of a revision thereof,  there  was  noground	for interfering with it.  As for checkers, they	 arehourly rated workers, and Shri Banerji had revised their payscale.	 Apart	from  stating that  "the  ends	of  justice"required  it,  the  Appellate Tribunal gave  no	 reason	 formodifying  his award.  We are of opinion that the  order  ofthe  Appellate Tribunal should be set aside both in  respectof  sarkars  and  checkers and the  award  of  Shri  Banerjirestored.(3)  On	 the  question	of bonus, the  facts  are  that	 theCompany	 had an elaborate scheme for granting bonus and	 theemployees  had been paid in accordance therewith.   But	 theUnion claimed that having regard to the profits made by	 theCompany, the employees794should	be paid three months' basic wages as bonus  for	 theyears 1950 and 1951.  It is not in dispute that the  profitsof the Company available for distribution for the year	1950were  Rs. 3.81 lakhs and for the year 1951, even less.	 Themonthly	 salary	 of  the  clerks,  sub-staff,  sarkars	 andcheckers was Rs. 89,500 and the monthly wages of the workerswere Rs. 1,75,000, making a total of Rs. 2,64,500.  This  isonly  for one factory, the Howrah Iron Works.	The  Companyowns  nine other units at different places, and there is  noevidence  as to the monthly salary payable to the  employeesand  workmen in those units.  Now, the surplus of  Rs.	3.81lakhs  in  the	hands of the Company  represents  the  totalprofits	 made  by it in all its units, and there  cannot  bemuch   of  a  doubt  that  this	 amount	 would	 be   whollyinsufficient to pay one month's basic wages as bonus to	 theemployees  of  the  Company in ,all its,  ten  units.	ShriBanerji	 accordingly held to at the profits of the,  Companydid  not  justify  the grant of any bonus  beyond  what	 theCompany had granted, and simplifying the complicated  schemeof  bonus  which the Company had evolved, he  directed	thatbonus should be paid, including what had been paid by it, atone month's basic pay.	The Appellate Tribunal when  dealingwith this question agreed that "if all categories of workmenbe  paid  bonus, there is no scope for the  payment  of	 anyadditional bonus".  But it held that as the other categoriesof  workmen  had  not made any claim for bonus	and  as	 theamount	payable	 to the members of the Union  was  only	 Rs.89,000,	 the surplus was sufficient to justify the award  tothem only of another month's basic wages as bonus.Whether we consider the question on principles of law or  ofequity, this conclusion is clearly unsound.  In law, a claimfor  bonus  will  be admissible only  if  the  business	 hadresulted during the year in sufficient profits.	 And as	 thereasons for the grant of bonus is that workers should  sharein  the	 prosperity to which they have contributed,  all  ofthem would have the right to participate in it.	  Therefore,profits can be said to be sufficient to declare a bonus onlyif they795are  sufficient	 to make a payment to all of them.   If	 theprofits are not sufficient for that purpose, then the  very,condition on which bonus could be declared would be  absent,and no question of granting any bonus could arise.  As it iscommon	ground	that  the profits of  the  Company  are	 notsufficient to justify the award of bonus if it is to be paidto  all	 the  workers of the Company in all  its  units,  itfollows	 that  there is in law no ground for  the  grant  ofbonus.	 Nor can such a claim be sustained in  equity.	 Theentire	profits of the Company are the result of the  labourof all the workmen and employees in all its units.  To granta  bonus  to  a section of them on the basis  of  the  totalprofits	 of  the  Company will be to give them	a  share  inprofits	 to which they have not contributed.  We are  whollyunable	to  appreciate	the  observation  of  the  AppellateTribunal  that	to  refuse additional  bonus  to  the  Unionemployees  would  be to penalise them  " not  for  their ownfault  but  for the laches of the coworkers,  who  abandonedtheir  claim".	 The  Tribunal	forgets	 that,	on  its	 ownfinding,  if  all the workmen made a claim, no	bonus  couldhave  been  declared.	It  is	not  a	question  of   theirabandoning their claim but of their realising that they havenone.  If the order of the Appellate Tribunal is to be giveneffect to, some of the employees of the Company would get  abonus,	while  others not, and as observed  in	Karam  ChandThappar	 & Bros.' Workmen v. The Company(1), that must	leadto disaffection among the workers and to further  industrialdisputes.   The order of the Appellate Tribunal awarding  anadditional one months basic wages as bonus is neither  legalnor just and must be set aside and the award of Shri Banerjias regards bonus restored.(4)  It	 remains  to  deal  with the  question	of  the	 re-instatement  and/or  compensation of four employees,  S.  N.Chatterjee, Ashimananda Banerjee, Panchanan Rana and  JoydebBanerjee.  It has been already stated that the order of ShriBanerji with reference to them was modified by the AppellateTribunal by awarding compensation at the rate of six months'basic wages(1)  [1953] L.A.C. 152,160.796to S. N. Chatterjee and one year's basic wages with dearnessallowance  to  Joydeb Banerjee and by providing that  S.  N.Chatterjee,  Ashimananda Banerjee and Panchanan Rana  shouldnot merely be re-employed but reinstated with continuity  ofservice.It  is argued for the appellant that under section 7 of	 theIndustrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act XLVIII of 1950,the  order  of the Tribunal refusing reinstatement  was	 notopen  to appeal, as it is not one of the matters set out  insection 7(1)(b), and that, in consequence, the order of	 theAppellate Tribunal in so far as it modified the order of theTribunal  as  regards  the  four  employees  aforesaid,	 waswithout	 jurisdiction,	and the decision in  Ranganathan  v.Madras	Electric  Tramways(1) and  Sudershan  Steel  RollingMills v. Their Workmen(2) were relied on in support of	thiscontention.   It must be mentioned that retrenchment is	 oneof  the matters enumerated in section 7 (1) (b), in  respectof  which an appeal would lie.	But if the order is  one  ofdismissal,  it cannot be said to be one of  retrenchment  asthat  word  is	ordinarily  understood,	 and  will  not	  beappealable  under section7(1)(b).  In 1953  the	 legislatureenacted	 the  Industrial Disputes (Amendment) Act  XLIII  of1953  wherein "retrenchment" was for the first time  definedso  as	to  include,  subject  to  certain  exceptions,	 thetermination  by the employer of the service of	workmen	 forany  reason  whatsoever. (Vide section 2(oo)).	 Under	thisdefinition, an appeal would be competent under section 7 (1)(b) (vii) in the case of termination of service, subject  tothe  exceptions specified therein.  But this Act  came	intoforce on the 24th December 1953, and as there is nothing  init  giving retrospective operation to this  definition,	 therights	of  the parties to the present appeal  would  remainunaffected by it.  Act XLIII of 1953 replaced Ordinance	 No.V  of  1953,  wherein  also  retrenchment  was	defined	  asincluding, subject to exceptions all termination of service;but that also came into force only on the 24th October 1953,whereas the present appeal was filed on 19-8-1953.  On	thatdate, the order of the Tribunal refusing(1) A.I.R. 1952 Mad. 669.(2) [1956] 2 L.L.J. 64.797reinstatement  was not open to appeal, and the order of	 theAppellate  Tribunal modifying it would therefore be  withoutjurisdiction and void.But  it	 is argued for the respondent that an award  of	 theTribunal  refusing reinstatement would be  appealable  undersection 7 (1) (a') if it involved a substantial question  oflaw,  and that as the contention of the employees  was	thatthe orders dismissing them were bad as having been passed incontravention  of ,the rules of natural justice, that was  aquestion  of law on which an appeal was competent.   It	 wasfurther	 contended  that when a question  arises  whether  aTribunal  has jurisdiction over the subject-matter, it	mustbe  competent to decide whether the  preliminary  conditionsexist,	on which its jurisdiction depends, and its  decisionon  that  question  is not liable to be	 attacked  in  civilcourts, and that accordingly the assumption of	jurisdictionby  the Appellate Tribunal on the footing that there  was  asubstantial question of law was not liable to be  questionedby  the	 civil	court, and the	decisions  in  Pankaj  KumarGanguli	 v.  Bank  of India(3)	and  Upper  Ganges  ElectricEmployees  Union v. Upper Ganges Valley	 Electricity  SupplyCo.  Ltd. and another(4) were relied on in support  of	thiscontention. We agree that an order refusing reinstatement would be opento appeal under section 7(1)(a) if it involved a substantialquestion  of  law.   Whether a	decision  of  the  AppellateTribunal  that an appeal to it from an award  was  competentunder  section	7 (1) (a) on the ground that it	 involved  asubstantial  question  of  law	is final  and  not  open  toquestion  in  a civil court is a point on which	 we  do	 notdesire	to express an opinion, as in the present  case,	 thecorrectness of that ,decision is challenged not collaterallyor in independent proceedings, such as an application  underarticle	 226 of the Constitution as in the two cases  reliedon  for the respondent, but by way of appeal  under  article136,  and it is open to us to consider as a Court of  Appealwhether, in fact, the order of the Tribunal was vitiated  byan error of law, and whether the(1)  [1956] 60 C.W.N. 602. 104(2) A.I.R. 1956 All. 491,       104798order  of the Appellate Tribunal modifying it is sound.	  Wemust  now consider the case of the four employees from	thisstandpoint:(1)  S.	 N. Chatterjee had an eye defect, and acting on	 theadvice of its medical officer, the Company discharged him onthat  ground.	The Tribunal has found him to  be  fit,	 anddirected  his re-employment.  He now claims compensation  onthe  ground  that he had produced a certificate	 of  fitnessfrom  a	 competent  medical officer  but  that	the  Companydischarged  him	 without making any  enquiry  thereon.	 TheAppellate   Tribunal  found  that  the	company	 bad   actedbonafide,  but	that  as the order  of	dismissal  was	madewithout	 due  enquiry it was bad,  and	accordingly  awardedcompensation at the rate of six months' basic wages.  We areunable	to  hold  that	on the	facts  found  the  AppellateTribunal had acted without jurisdiction in interfering	withthe  award  or that its order is unjust.  No case  has	beenmade out for our interference with it under article 136(2)  Ashimananda  Banerjee  was arrested by  the  Governmentunder the West Bengal Security Act and detained in jail from25-1-1949 to 5-4-1951.	The Company terminated his  serviceson 22-4-1949.  The Tribunal made an order that he should  bere-employed,  and that is not now in question.	But he	fur-ther  claims  that  he is entitled to  be  reinstated.	 TheAppellate  Tribunal  has accepted that claim on	 the  groundthat  he had been discharged without the Company  framing  acharge or holding an enquiry, and that the rules of  naturaljustice had been violated.  We are unable to agree with thisdecision.  The ground of discharge is the continued  absenceof  the	 employee, and his inability to do work, and  it  isdifficult  to see what purpose would be served by  a  formalcharge being delivered to him and what conceivable answer hecould give thereto.  The order of the Appellate Tribunal  ismanifestly erroneous and must be set aside.(3)  The  facts	 relating to Panchanan Rana are	 similar  tothose  of Ashimananda Banerjee, and for the reasons  alreadygiven, the order of the Appellate799Tribunal in his favour should be set aside.(4)  The  question as regards Joydeb Banerjee is whether  heis  entitled to compensation on the ground that he had	beenwrongly	 discharged.   The facts are that  on  16-11-1950  anumber of employees participated in an assault on the  WorksManager, Mr. Davison, and the Company dismissed fourteen  ofthem  on that ground, and Joydeb Banerjee was one  of  them.The  Appellate	Tribunal  has held that as  no	charge	was,framed against him or an enquiry held, his dismissal was  incontravention  of  the	rules of natural  justice.   It	 hasaccordingly  ordered  that  he should be  given	 one  year'sbasic wages with dearness allowance as compensation.   It istrue that no charge-sheet was formally drawn up against him,but that would not vitiate the order of dismissal if he knewwhat  the charge against him was and had an  opportunity  ofgiving	his explanation.  It appears from the order  of	 theTribunal  that subsequent to the order of dismissal  by	 theCompany, there were conciliation proceedings and an  enquiryby the Labour Minister, as a result of which he	 recommendedthe reinstatement of seven out of the fourteen who had	beendismissed,  leaving  the order in operation as	regards	 theother  seven, of whom Joydeb Banerjee was one.	In the	faceof  these facts, it is idle for him to contend that  he	 hadbeen dismissed without hearing or enquiry.  The order of theAppellate  Tribunal awarding compensation to him  should  beset aside.In the result, Civil Appeal No. 325 of 1955 is allowed,	 theorder  of the Appellate Tribunal set aside and that of	ShriBanerji	 restored,  except that (1) the minimum pay  of	 theclerical staff will be Rs. 65 per mensem with  modificationsas to the ceiling level and increments as set out supra	 and(2)   that  S.	N.  Chatterjee	will  be   reinstated	withcompensation  as  provided  in the order  of  the  AppellateTribunal.   The	 Union	will  pay  half	 the  costs  of	 theappellant throughout.  Civil Appeal No. 174 of 1956 is	dis-missed, but there will be no order as to costs.800