PETITIONER:THAKUR RAGHUBIR SINGH AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF AJMER (NOW RAJASTHAN) AND OTHERS(and connectedDATE OF JUDGMENT:14/11/1958BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.SUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  475		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 478 CITATOR INFO : R	    1960 SC 796	 (3,6) R	    1962 SC  50	 (5) R	    1962 SC 137	 (8) R	    1962 SC1044	 (12) RF	    1992 SC1277	 (22)ACT:Land  Reform-Abolition of Intermediaries-Validity of  Enact-ment-Competency	 of Legislature-Liability to  resumption  ofjagir  estates-Ajmer  Abolition of Intermediaries  and	LandReforms Act,1955 (Ajmer III of 1955) ss. 8,  38-Constitutionof India, Seventh Schedule, List I, entry 33, List II, entry36, List III, entry 42.HEADNOTE:Section 4 Of the Ajmer Abolition of Intermediaries and	LandReforms	 Act, 955, provided for vesting of all estates	heldby intermediaries, as defined in the Act, in the State	froma date to be notified, and the petitioners who were affectedthereby filed petitions under Art. 32 Of the Constitution ofIndia challenging the validity of the Act and, in particularss. 8 and 38 of the Act on the grounds that (1) entry 36  ofList 11 of the479Seventh Schedule to the Constitution gave power to the Statelegislature to acquire property for purposes other than	 thepurposes of the Union, while the property acquired under theAct  vested in the President and therefore the	Union  afterits acquisition, and the Act was really for the	 acquisitionof property for the purposes of the Union and could not havebeen passed by the, Ajmer legislature, (2) s. 8 provided forretrospective cancellation of leases granted at a time	whenthe land-owner had a right to dispose of his property as  heliked under Art. 19(1)(f) of the Constitution and there	 wasno restriction on such right, and (3)	s. 38 which fixed  amaximum rent was an unreasonable.restriction on the right ofthe  land-owner to let his holding.  It was  also  contendedfor  some  of  the petitioners who were	 assignees  of	landrevenue	 as  also owners of land that, under  the  Act,	 -anintermediary  included	a jagir and that as a  jagirdar	 wasmerely	an  assignee of land revenue, only  that  assignmentcould be said to have been acquired under the Act.Held,  (1)  that  the purposes for which  the  estates	wereacquired   were	 purposes  of  the  State  of	Ajmer	and,consequently, the Act was within the competency of the Ajmerlegislature  as	 it fell within entry 36 of List II  of	 theSeventh	 Schedule  to  the  Constitution,  and	it  was	 notnecessary  to consider where the property should vest  afteracquisition  in deciding the ambit of the competence of	 thelegislature under the entry ;(2)  that the provisions in s. 8 of the Act which gave powerto  the Collector to cancel leases which were found to	havebeen  made in anticipation of legislation for  abolition  ofintermediaries	and which were, consequently, a	 fraud	uponthe  Act,  subserve  the  purposes of  the  Act	 and  would,therefore, be an integral part of the Act, though  ancillaryto its main object, and were protected under Art. 31-A(1)(a)of the Constitution ;(3)that the intention of the Act was that the intermediarieswho were allotted lands should cultivate them personally andthe object of s. 38 was to discourage them from letting	 theland  and  becoming  a	new  kind  of  intermediaries,	and,consequently,  the  section  being  an	ancillary  provisionnecessary  for the purposes of carrying out the	 objects  ofthe  Act,  was	protected  under  Art.	31-A(1)(a)  of	 theConstitution; and(4)that in view of the origin of the title of the holders ofthese estates who were called jagirdars, a distinction couldnot  be made between jagirdars as assignees of land  revenueand  the  same persons as land owners,	and  therefore,	 theState  could  take over the entire interest  in	 the  estateunder s. 4 Of the Act.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petitions Nos. 230-239, 241, 249-251,256,  257, 290, 303, 306-349, 351, 352, 355-357 of 1955	 andNos. 33 & 36 of 1956.Petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.480Achhru Ram and Naunit Lal, for the petitioners in  PetitionsNos. 239, 241 & 251 of 1955.Naunit Lal, for the petitioners in Petitions Nos. 249& 250 of 1955.B.D..  Sharma  and  K.	L. Mehta,  for	the  petitioners  inPetitions  Nos. 290, 303, 306-349, 351, 355-357 of 1955	 and36 of 1956.B. D. Sharma, for the petitioner in Petition No. 33of 1956.K. L. Mehta, for the petitioner in Petition No. 352of 1955.I.   N.	 Shroff, for the petitioners in Petitions Nos.	230-238, 256-257 of 1955.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India,M.   N.	 Kaul  and  T. M. Sen, for  the	 respondents.1958.  November 14.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyWANCHOO, J.-These sixty-nine petitions under Art. 32 of	 theConstitution  by various land-owners in the former State  ofAjmer  attack  the  validity  of  the  Ajmer  Abolition	  ofIntermediaries	and  Land Reforms Act, 1955  (Ajmer  III  of1955) (hereinafter called the Act).  The petitions  disclosea  large number of grounds on which the validity of the	 Actis impugned; but learned counsel, Mr. Achhru Ram and Mr.  B.D. Sharma, appearing for various petitioners, have  confinedtheir arguments only to certain grounds raised in the  peti-tions.	We propose, therefore, to consider only the  groundsurged before us.The  Act  was passed by the Ajmer Legislative  Assembly	 andreceived  the  assent  of the President	 on  May  29,  1955.Section	 4  of the Act provided for vesting of	all  estatesheld by intermediaries, as defined in the Act, in the  StateGovernment  from a date to be notified.	 The Act  came	intoforce on June 23, 1955, and August 1, 1955, was notified  asthe  date on which the estates held by intermediaries  wouldvest  in  the  State  Government.   The	 present   petitionsfollowed on the fixing of this date.It is not disputed that the Act is protected under Art. 31 -A(l)(a) of the Constitution inasmuch as it is a481piece  of  legislation for acquisition by the State  of	 anyestate	or of any rights therein.  The argument is  that  inspite  of this protection, either the whole Act	 or  certainprovisions  of it are invalid, for reasons urged by  learnedcounsel	 on  behalf  of the  petitioners.   Mr.	 Achhru	 Ramattacks	 only ss. 8 and 38 of the Act.	Mr.  Sharma  attacksthe competency of the Ajmer legislature to pass the Act	 andalso urges that in any case it does not apply to the case ofjagirdars, one of whom is a petitioner before us in PetitionNo.  33 of 1956.  These four are the only grounds that	havebeen urged before us, and we shall deal with them seriatim.Re. s. 8.Section 8 is in these terms-" Where an intermediary has on or after the 1st day of June,1950,  (a) granted a lease of any land in the estate or	 anypart  thereof for any non-agricultural purposes	 other	thanmining for a period of three years or more;  or(b)  granted a lease or 'entered into a contract relating toany forest, fishery or quarry in his estate for a period  ofthree years or more ; Or(c)granted a lease for the cultivation of any area of bir orpasture or waste land ;and  the Collector is satisfied that such lease or  contractwas  not  made	or  entered into in  the  normal  course  ofmanagement  but	 in  anticipation  of  legislation  for	 theAbolition  of Intermediaries, the Collector may, subject  toany  rules made under this Act, by order in writing,  cancelthe lease or the contract as the case may be."It provides for cancellation of certain leases granted on orafter June 1, 1950, where the lease is for a period of threeyears or more with respect to matters dealt with in cls. (a)and (b) and where the lease is for any period in respect  ofmatters dealt with in cl. (c).	The Collector has been giventhe power to cancel such leases if they are not, made in thenormal	course	of  management but in "	 anticipation  -  oflegislation  for abolition of intermediaries.  The  argumentis that61482there can be no retrospective cancellation of leases grantedat a time when the land-owner had a right to dispose of	 hisproperty  as he liked under Art. 19(1)(f) and there  was  norestriction  on	 such  right.  It is said  that	 in  certaincontingencies  the cancellation of a lease might expose	 theland-owner to the risk of paying compensation to the lessee,particularly  in  cases	 where	the  land-owner	 might	haverealised the entire lease-money in one lump sum for a  leaseof more than three years' duration.  We are of opinion	thatthere  is no force in this contention.	The legislature	 wascertainly  competent,  under  entry 18 of  List	 11  of	 theSeventh	 Schedule to the Constitution relating to  Land,  tomake  this  provision.	 It  cannot  be	 disputed  that	 thelegislature  has  power in appropriate cases  to  pass	evenretrospective  legislation.  Provisions for cancellation  ofinstruments  already  executed are not unknown to  law;	 forexample,  the  Insolvency  Acts provide	 for  setting  asidetransfers  made by insolvents under  certain  circumstances.Therefore, the Ajmer Legislature certainly had the power  toenact  such a provision, and in the circumstances  in  whichthis  provision has been made in the Act, it cannot be	saidthat it is not protected under Art. 31-A.  The provision  isnot  an	 independent provision; it is  merely  ancillary  incharacter  enacted for carrying out the objects of  the	 Actmore  effectively.  The intention of the legislature was  togive power to the Collector after the estates vested in	 theState  Government  to scrutinise leases of  this  kind	madeafter June 1, 1950, which was apparently the date from whichsuch legislation was under contemplation and to see  whetherthe  leases  were such as a prudent land-owner	would  enterinto in the normal course of management.  Such leases  wouldbe  immune  from cancellation ; but if the  Collector  foundthat the leases were entered into, not in the normal  courseof  management	but designedly to make	whatever  the  land-owners could before the estate came to be transferred to theState  Government,  he 'Was given the power to	-cancel	 thesame,  as  they would obviously be a fraud-  upon  the	Act.Such,  cancellation would subserve the purposes of the	Act,and483the provision for it would therefore be an integral part  ofthe Act, though ancillary to its main object, and would thusbe protected under Art. 31-A (1)(a) of the Constitution.Re. s. 38.Section 38 reads as followsNotwithstanding	 any agreement, usage, decree or order of  acourt  or any law for the time being in force,	the  maximumrent  payable by a tenant in respect of the land  leased  tohim shall not exceed one and half times the revenue  payablein respect of such land."This  section provides for fixing the maximum rent at  fiftyper cent. above the land revenue, and it is urged that	thisis  an	unreasonable restriction on the right of  the  land-owner to let his holding.  The object of this legislation isto  do	away with intermediaries, and for  that	 reason	 theestates	 held by intermediaries have been' made to  vest  inthe  State  Government tinder s. 4. Chapter VI of  the	Act,however,  provides  for	 allotment  of	lands  for  personalcultivation to intermediaries whose estates have been  takenover  upto a certain limit and the intermediaries  who	havebeen  allotted	lands  under s. 29 of  the  Act	 are  calledBhuswamis or Kashtkars according to the nature of the  landsallotted to them; (see s. 30).	Bhuswamis and Kashtkars holdland  directly	from the Government and pay revenue  to	 theGovernment;  (see  s.  32).   The  intention  of  the	Act,therefore,  is	that intermediaries who have  been  allottedlands  should cultivate them personally.  But s. 37  permitsBhuswamis to let the whole or any part of the land  allottedto them, while Kashtkars are forbidden from letting any partof their land except in certain circumstances when they	 aresuffering from some disability.	 In order, however, that themain  object  of the Act (namely, that the  land  should  becultivated  by	the person to whom it is allotted  and	thatthere should be no rackrenting) is attained, s. 38 has	beenprovided  fixing the maximum rent at 50 per cent. above	 theland revenue.  Thus the profit which a Bhuswami484can make by letting his land is so reduced compared to	whathe would earn if he cultivated it himself as to	  discouragehim from letting the land and becoming a.    new   kind	  ofintermediary.	Section 38, therefore, is another  ancillarysection, like s. 8, and is meant to subserve the purposes ofthe  Act,  namely, the abolition of all	 intermediaries	 andencouragement  of  self-cultivation of the  land.   We	are,therefore,  of	opinion that s. 38 is also  protected  underArt.   31-A(l)(a)  of  the  Constitution  as  an   ancillaryprovision  necessary  for the purposes of carrying  out	 theobjects of the Act.Re.  The competency of the Ajmer Legislation.The argument in this behalf is put in this way.	 The Act  isa  piece  of  legislation for the  acquisition	of  estates.Before the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956,	cameinto  force  on	 November 1, 1956, there  were	two  entriesrelating to acquisition of property in the Seventh Schedule,namely, entry 33 of List 1 (acquisition or requisitioning ofproperty for the purpose of the Union) and entry 36 of	ListII(acquisition or requisitioning of property, except for thepurposes of the Union, subject to the provisions of entry 42of  List  111).	  The argument continues that  the  Act	 waspassed	by  the	 Ajmer legislature under the  power  it	 wassupposed  to have under entry 36 of List 11 read with s.  21of the Government of part C States Act, 1951 (XLIX of 1951).But  entry  36	of List 11 only gives  power  to  the  Statelegislature to acquire property for purposes other than	 thepurposes  of the Union.	 As, however, the  property  aquiredunder  the  Act vested in the President	 and  therefore	 theUnion  after  its acquisition, the Act was  really  for	 theacquisition  of property for the purposes of the  Union	 andcould not have been passed by the Ajmer legislature.In  support  of	 this argument Mr.  Sharma  referred  us  tovarious	 Articles  of the Constitution in Part	XII  thereofrelating to Finance, Property, Contracts and Suits, and alsoArts.  73 and 239.  He contends that these  provisions	showthat before the Government of Part C States Act was  passed,the legislative power with respect to the areas comprised inPart C States485was  in	 the  Union which also	through	 the  President	 hadexecutive power over the subjects over which the  Parliamentcould  legislate  with respect to what were Part  C  States.After the passing of the Government of Part C States Act, byvirtue	of  the power conferred on Parliament by  Art.	240,there was no change so far as the executive power in Part  CStates	was  concerned	and  it	 is  still  vested  in	 thePresident.  Any property acquired for the purposes of Part CStates	vests  in the President or  the	 Union.	  Therefore,according to him, the Ajmer legislature would have no  powerto enact a law for acquiring estates under entry 36 of, List11;  for  the property so acquired would really be  for	 thepurposes of the Union and no law under that, entry could  bemade for acquiring property for the purposes of the Union.We are of opinion that the argument, though plausible,	mustbe  rejected.  Assuming, without deciding. that	 even  afterthe  passing of the Government of.  Part C States  Act,	 anyproperty  acquired  for a Part C State vested in  the  UnionGovernment  by virtue of the provisions of Part XII  of	 theConstitution,  the question still remains whether the  Ajmerlegislature  could  make  a law under entry 36	of  List  IIacquiring estates even though the estates when acquired	 maylegally vest in the Union Government.  Now, entry 33 of ListI  refers to acquiring of property for the purposes  of	 theUnion.	 It  does not lay down in whom the  property  shouldvest  after  it has been acquired.  Similarly, entry  36  ofList  11 speaks of acquisition of property, except  for	 thepurposes  of  the Union, and makes no mention  in  whom	 theproperty  should vest after it has been acquired.  Entry  42of   List  II  which  deals  with  compensation	  for	suchacquisition as well as for acquisition for any other  publicpurpose, also does not speak where the property should	vestafter  acquisition.   It  is not  necessary,  therefore,  toconsider where the property should vest after acquisition indeciding  the  ambit of the competence	of  the	 legislatureunder  those two entries.  The key to the interpretation  ofthese  two  entries is not in whom the property	 would	vestafter it has been acquired 'but whether the486property is being acquired for the purposes of the Union  inone  case  or for purposes other than the  purposes  of	 theUnion  in  the	other.	 It is	in  this  context  that	 thecompetency of the Ajmer legislature to enact this law  underentry 36 of List 11 is to be judged.Section 21 of the Government of Part C States Act created  aLegislative  Assembly  for Ajmer and gave  that	 legislativeassembly power to make laws for the whole or any part of theState with respect to any of the matters enumerated in	ListII or List III of the seventh Schedule to the  Constitution.Ajmer  legislature  was thus given power to pass  laws	withrespect	 to acquisition of property for purposes other	thanthose  of  the Union.  In other words, it bad the  power  tomake  law to acquire property for the purposes of the  Stateof Ajmer or for any other public purpose.  The question thenis whether the Act was passed acquiring estates in the Stateof  Ajmer for the purposes of the State of Active  of  wherethe title may vest.  The answer to this question to our mindcan only be one; the Act was passed by the State legislaturefor  acquiring	estates within the State and it	 could	onlyhave been for the purposes of the State.  There is no reasonto  limit the meaning of these general words,  namely,	'thepurposes  of  the State', by importing in them the  idea  ofwhere  the property would vest after its acquisition.	Thatthe  purposes  for  which the  estates	were  acquired	werepurposes of the State of Ajmer would be quite clear from thefact that now- that the State of Ajmer is part of the  Stateof  Rajasthan, the estates acquired under the Act have	goneto  Rajasthan  and have not been kept by the  Union  on	 theground	that the title vested in the Union.   Therefore,  asthe  estates were acquired in this case for the purposes  ofthe State of Ajmer the Act would be within the competency ofthe Ajmer legislature as it falls within the plain words  ofentry 36 of List 11.Re.  Jagirdars.The  contention on behalf of the petitioner in petition	 No.33  of	1956  is that under the Act  the  word	intermediaryincludes  a  jagirdar.	 The  Act  also	 provides  that	 thedefinitions in the Ajmer Tenancy and Land487Records	 Act,  1950 (Ajmer XLII of 1950), will	be  importedwhere  the  words used in it are not defined.	The  word  Ijagirdar  is defined in the Ajmer Tenancy and  Land  RecordsAct  as	 a person to whom the revenue of any land  has	beenassigned  under	 a sanad issued by  the	 Chief	Commissionerbefore	the  commencement  of the  Ajmer  Land	and  RevenueRegulation,  l877 ; (see s. 2 (15) ). It is not	 in  disputethat  a sanad was issued to a predecessor of the  petitionerbefore 1877 ; but it is urged that a jagirdar is merely	 theassignee  of land revenue and so far as that  assignment  isconcerned  it  may be said to have been acquired  under	 theAct.   But the petitioner besides being an assignee of	landrevenue	 is also owner of land and that interest of his	 hasnot  been  acquired under the Act.  We are of  opinion	thatthere  is no force in this argument.  The word I estate'  isdefined in s. 2(v) of the Act as having the same meaning  asassigned  to  it in the Ajmer Land and	Revenue	 Regulation,1877.	The  Ajmer  Regulation	does  not  define  the	word'estate'  as such, but it has defined the word ' Malguzar  'as  a person liable under s. 64 for payment of	the  revenueassessed  upon	an estate, under s. 2(d).   Further,  s.  64provides  that	all persons who are bound by  the  agreementprescribed  by s. 61 and their successors-ininterest  shall,while  they continue to be owners of land in the  Estate  towhich  such  agreement	relates, be  jointly  and  severallyliable	for  the  payment of the  whole	 amount	 of  revenueassessed  upon	such  estate.	The  Ajmer  Regulation	alsodefines particular types of estates like' Istimrari  Estate'and  'Bhum'  but the general meaning of	 the  word  'estate'under  the  Ajmer Regulation is an area of  land  separatelyassessed  to revenue, which is payable by the holder of	 theestate.	  I Intermediary' as defined in s. 2 (viii)  of	 theAct is a holder of an estate and includes a jagirdar.  Unders.  4  all the estates held by intermediaries  Vest  in	 theState Government on the issue of a notification.  Therefore,if  the	 jagirdars are intermediaries, that  is	 holders  ofestates,  their	 estates will vest in the  State  Governmentunder  s. 4 of the Act.	 The distinction which	the  learnedcounsel for this petitioner draws between the488interest of the jagirdar as jagirdar and as land-owner is inour  opinion wholly unfounded.	A perusal of annexures B,  Cand  D,	 filed by the. petitioner himself, would  make	thisclear.	 Anexures  B and C are sanads with  respect  to	 thejagirs held by the petitioner.	Entry in the remarks  columnof annexure IS begins with the words " Grant of this  estatelasts...  ". Similarly, in annexure C the opening  words  inthe remarks column are " The Grant is to the Dudhadhari	 forthe  time being.  No part of the estate is  transferable  bysale  or  mortgage... ". Therefore,  the  grants  themselvesdesignated  these jagirs as estates.  They were assessed  torevenue,  which was, however, remitted and the estates	thuscame  to  be  known as revenue-free jagirs  and	 the  estateholder	was designated as jagirdar.  It was because of	thisremission of the land revenue that the word I jagirdar'	 wasdefined in the Ajmer Tenancy and Land Records Act, 1950,  asassignee of land revenue.  Annexures B and C also show	thatwhen  the grants were made before 1877 a large part  of	 thearea  covered  by the grant was	 uncultivated.	 Annexure  Dshows  that  disputes arose between the	 jagirdars  and	 theBiswedars  in these jagirs about these	uncultivated  lands,and  one such dispute was decided as late as 1954.  In	thatjudgment (annexure D) history of jagir tenure was traced andit was held that the jagirdar was the owner of	uncultivatedland  in  his jagir and not the	 Biswedar.   Therefore,	 thedistinction  which  has been drawn by  the  learned  counselbetween the jagirdar as an assignee of land revenue based onthe  definition in the Ajmer Tenancy and Land  Records	Act,1950,  and the same person as the land-owner  is  unfounded.It appears that though the jagirdar may have been defined asassignee  of land revenue because of the peculiar fact	thatin  the case of a jagirdar there had been remission of	landrevenue by sanads granted before 1877, he was the proprietorof  his jagir and the grantee of the estate given to him  asjagir  There  is no question, therefore, of  separating	 theinterest  of jagirdar as the assignee of land revenue  from,his  interest as the holder of jagir-estate by virtue  of  agrant before 1877.  The petitioner therefore in petition489No.  33	 of  1956  is the holder  of  the  jagir-estate	 andtherefore  his	entire interest in the estate is  liable  toresumption  under the Act.  In the Ajmer Regulations,  (Vol.H to L) at pp. 564-6, these two estates have been consideredand their history is given, and they are called jagirs.	 Thehistory of jagirs in Rajasthan was considered by this  Courtin  Thakur Amarsinghji v. State of Rajasthan (1), at p.	 330onwards,  and  the  word I jagir' was hold  to	connote	 allgrants which conferred on the grantees rights in respect  ofland  revenue.	 In the case of these two  jagirs  also,  asannexures  B and C show, land revenue was remitted and	theywere granted as estates for particular purposes.  They	are,therefore,  clearly  estates in view of the  origin  of	 thetitle  of  the	holder	of these estates  who  is  called  ajagirdar and therefore the State could take them over  unders. 4 of the Act.There  is no force in any of the points raised on behalf  ofthe  petitioners,  and	the petitions fail  and	 are  herebydismissed   with  one  set  of	costs  to   the	  contestingrespondent.		       Petitions dismissed.