PETITIONER:FAGUNA KANTA NATH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF ASSAMDATE OF JUDGMENT:13/01/1959BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR  673		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2)	1 CITATOR INFO : F	    1967 SC 553	 (7,9) R	    1970 SC 436	 (14) F	    1990 SC1210	 (5,6,8,9)ACT:       Criminal	 Law-Abetment-Bribery-Conviction  for  bribery	set       aside-Maintenance of conviction for abetment-Legality-Indian       Penal Code (Act XLV of 1860), ss.1O7,161, 165A.HEADNOTE:The appellant was tried for an offence under s. 165A of	 theIndian	Penal  Code for having abetted K,  an  Inspector  incharge of checking paddy, in the commission of an offence bythe  latter under s. 161 of the Code.  The prosecution	casewas  that while the complainant was taking paddy for sale  Kdemanded Rs. 200/as bribe and threatened him that unless themoney  was  paid  the paddy would be  seized,  that  at	 theinstance of K the complainant handed over the bribe money tothe  appellant for being counted and that the  latter  afterchecking the money paid it to K. The Special judge who triedthe  case  accepted the prosecution story  and	convicted  Kunder s. 161 of the Indian Penal Code and the appellant	 forabetment  of the offence.  On appeal, the High Court was  ofthe opinion that the evidence was not strong enough to provepayment	 to K, and set aside his conviction,  but  confirmedthat of the appellant on the ground that money was taken  byhim for payment to K as illegal gratification and whether heactually  paid	it to him or not the offence fell  under  s.165A.Held,  that  the conviction of the  appellant  for  abetmentunder  s.  165A	 of the Indian Penal  Code  must  under	 thecircumstances  be  set	aside.	 On  the  facts	 found,	 theappellant received the money in the presence of and for	 andon behalf of K and if K was acquitted on the ground that  nooffence	 under	s. 161 was committed, then  no	question  ofintentionally  aiding by any act or omission the  commissionof   the  offence  arose.   Consequently,  the	 appellant'sconviction for the offence of abetment wag-not maintainable.Dalip	Singh  v.  State  of  Punjab,  [1954]  S.C.R.	145,distinguished.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 203  of1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedDecember  14,  1955, of the Assam High Court at	 Gauhati  inCriminal Appeal No,. 54 of 1955, arising out of the judgmentand order dated May 23,21955,  of  the	Court  of the  Special	Judge,	Lower  AssamDistricts at Dhubri in Special Case No. 2 of 1954.Nur-ud-Din   Ahmad   and   K.	R.   Chaudhury,	  for	 theappellant.Naunit Lal, for the respondent.1959.  January 13.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyKAPUR,	J.-This appeal by special leave is directed  againstthe  judgment  and order of the High Court  of	Assam.	 Theappellant  before us was tried for an offence under s.	165Aof  the	 Indian Penal Code for having abetted  one  KhalilurRahman in the conimission of an offence by the latter  unders. 161, Indian Penal Code.  Both the appellant and  KhalilurRahman	were convicted of the offences with which they	werecharged and sentenced to one. year's rigorous  imprisonment.On  appeal  the	 High Court acquitted  Khalilur	 Rahman	 butmaintained the conviction and sentence of the appellant.The  facts  of	this appeal are that on	 May  9,  1952,	 thecomplainant  Narendra  Nath  Brahma  was  taking  two  cartscarrying  25  Mds. of paddy for	 sale  to  Billashiparabazaralong the path which runs by the side of the river Gauranga.When he had gone only a short distance he was stopped by thepaddy-checking	 Inspector,   Khalilur	 Rahman,   who	 wasaccompanied  by	 the appellant and three  others.   KhalilurRahman	demanded  Rs. 200 as bribe and threatened  the	com-plainant  that unless the amount demanded was paid his	cartand paddy would be seized.  In this he was supported by	 theappellant  and three others.  The complainant expressed	 hisinability to give that much amount but ultimately he  agreedto pay Rs. 150.	 He borrowed Rs. 100 from one Surajmal Oswalout of which he offered Rs. 80 to Khalilur Rahman who  askedhim to hand them over to the appellant who counted the moneyand  made it over to Khalilur Rahman.  The  complainant	 wasalso forced to execute a promissory note for a sum of Rs. 70in  favour of the appellant and he promised that  the  moneywould  be paid the following day after the paddy  was  sold.The3complainant  learnt in the bazar that another person  Happa-ram Rai had been similarly treated but he had only paid	 Rs.15.   On  May  11,  1952,  the	complainant  approached	 theappellant for the refund of his money and the return of	 hispronote	 and although the appellant promised he did  not  doso.   The same day there was a meeting at  Futkibari  MiddleEnglish	 School where the Deputy Commissioner  was  present.The  complainant  presented  to	 him  a	 written   complaintdescribing  how	 he  was forced to pay Rs. 80  and  made  toexecute	 a  pronote  for Rs. 70.   Thereupon  both  KhalilurRahman	and the appellant were prosecuted, the former  unders.  161,  Indian  Penal	 Code, read  with  s.  5(2)  of	 thePrevention  of	Corruption  Act, 1947 (2 of  1947)  and	 thelatter	under s. 165A and they were convicted and  sentencedby the Special Judge as already stated.The evidence of the complainant was that before Rs. 200	 wasdemanded from him, the appellant and Khalilur Rahman "	wentaside  and  had	 some  talks  and  coming  together  accusedKhalilur Rahman demanded Rs. 200 ". He also stated " I	toldthem  that I managed to procure Rs. 80 somehow and I  wantedto  hand over to accused Khalilur Rahman who directed me  tohand over to accused Faguna, saying he would take  counting,accused	 Faguna	 counted the money and then  made  over	 theentire	money to accused Khalilur Rahman saying that Rs.  80would not do and I should execute a handnote for the balanceof  Rs.	 70 promising to pay on the  following	Saturday  ".According to the complainant it was Khalilur Rahman who toreout  a page from his note book and handed over the  same  tothe complainant and also lent him his fountain pen and afterthe  pronote was executed both the pen and the pronote	werehanded over to Khalilur Rahman.	 The Special Judge found:-"I am fully convinced that a sum of Rs. 80 was realised fromthe complainant for forbearing from seizing of the paddy  bythe accused Khalilur Rahman, being helped and abetted by theaccused Faguna Kanta Nath."4He therefore convicted Khalilur Rahman under s. 161,  IndianPenal Code, but acquitted him of an offence under s. 5(2) ofthe  Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947, and  convicted	 theappellant for abetment of that offence.	 On appeal Deka, J.,held that from the complaint made by the complainant it	 wasnot clear that any payment was made to Khalilur Rahman.	  Hesaid:It may be that Khalilur Rahman was a party to squeezing	 outsome  money  from a dealer in paddy who tried to  evade	 thelaw,  but  that	 falls	far short of  proving  that  he	 hadaccepted  the money through Fagunakanta Nath as alleged	 nowin Court ".The  learned  Judge accepted the  complainant's	 story	thatmoney  was paid to the appellant but he was of	the  opinionthat the evidence was not strong enough to prove payment  toKhalilur  Rahman and therefore he was "prepared to give	 thebenefit	 of  doubt to Khalilur Rahman and  direct  that	 hisconviction tinder s. 161, Indian Penal Code be set aside  ".As  to	the appellant he was of the opinion that  money	 wastaken  by  him	for payment to Khalilur	 Rahman	 as  illegalgratification and whether he actually paid it to him or	 notthe  offence  fell under s. 165A and therefore he  held	 theappellant guilty under that section.  Thus according to	 thelearned	 Judge	the  case against Khalilur  Rahman  was	 notproved	and as money had been paid to the appellant  he	 wasguilty of abetment under s.   165A, Indian Penal Code.	 Theappellant has come to	 this Court by special leave.The main argument raised on behalf of the appellant is	thatas  Khalilur  Rahman has been acquitted, on  the  facts	 andcircumstances  of this case the conviction of the  appellantfor  abetment  cannot  be sustained.  The  evidence  of	 thecomplainant  on which the conviction is based was  that	 themoney was demanded by Khalilur Rahman and at his instance itwas  made  over to the appellant who counted the  money	 andhanded	it  over to Khalilur Rahman.  The pronote  was	alsowritten	 at the instance of Khalilur Rahman and	 was  handedover to him.  The -part played by the appellant according tothe story of the5complainant  was  that	before	the  demand  of	 bribe	bothKhalilur  Rahman and the appellant "went aside" and  held  aconference  and Khalilur Rahman then demanded Rs. 200.	 Rs.80 was brought by the complainant and paid to the  appellantat  the	 instance  of Khalilur Rahman  for  the	 purpose  ofcounting  and he in turn gave it to Khalilur Rahman who	 putit  in	his  trouser's pocket.	About this  portion  of	 theevidence  the trial Court said " it may not be fully true  "and  the  finding of the High Court was that the  money	 re-mained	with  him and was not paid to Khalilur	Rahman;	 thequestion  is whether in these circumstances the	 offence  ofabetment can be held to have been made out.Under  the Indian law for an offence of abetment it  is	 notnecessary  that the offence should have been  committed.   Aman  may  be  guilty as an abettor whether  the	 offence  iscommitted or not.  Section 165A is as follows:S.   165A  "  Whoever, abets any  offence  punishable  undersection	 161 or section 165, whether or not that offence  iscommitte  in consequence of the abetment, shall be  punishedwith imprisonment of either description for a term which mayextend to three years or with fine or with both ".Therefore  for	a  person to be guilty	of  abetment  of  anoffence	 under s. 161, it is not necessary that the  offenceshould have been committed.  Abetment is defined in s.	 107arid  a	 person	 abets	the doing  of  a  thing	 when  (1)heinstigates  any person to do that thing or  (2)engages	withone  or more other person or persons in any  conspiracy	 forthe doing of that thing....... or (3) intentionally aids, byany  act  or  illegal  omission the  doing  of	that  thing.Explanation (2) to s. 107 is as follows:-" Whoever, either prior to or at the time of the  commissionof  an	act,  does  anything  in  order	 to  facilitate	 thecommission   of	 that  act,  and  thereby  facilitates	 thecommission thereof, is said to aid the doing of that act."It  is not suggested that there was any instigation  by	 theappellant for the commission of the offence.6Further	 the circumstances proved against the appellant	 didnot  bring the case under the second part of s. 107  becauseit is not alleged that there was any conspiracy and a chargeof  conspiracy	must necessarily fail-if the  other  allegedconspirator is acquitted: See The King v. Plummer (1)  whichhas received the approval of this Court in Topandas v. Stateof  Bombay (2).	 In either of these cases it  is  immaterialhether	the person instigated commits the offence or not  orthe  persons  conspiring  together actually  carry  out	 theobject of conspiracy.There then remains the third part of s. 107 that is abetmentby aid.	 A person abets by aiding when by the commission  ofan  act	 lie intends to facilitate and does  facilitate	 thecommission  thereof By the acquittal of Khalilur Rahman	 theHigh  Court  must be deemed to have held that there  was  nooffence under s. 161.  But it was contended on behalf of therespondent  that the acquittal of Khalilur Rahman was  wrongand  this Court should hold that a wrong acquittal does	 notprevent	 the conviction of the appellant for the offence  ofabetment.   Counsel  for the respondent	 referred  to  DalipSingh v. State of Punjab (3) where at p.     156  Bose,	 J.,said:"  We have taken into consideration the fact that  the	HighCourt  considers  that the portion of Mst.   Punnan's  storyregarding the lambardars has been falsely introduced by	 thepolice,	 also  that both courts have rejected  the  evidenceabout  the dying declaration.  Despite that, we	 agree	withthe  learned  Sessions	Judge that  Mst.   Punnan  and	Mst.Charni are to be believed regarding the main facts and	thatthey  correctly named all seven accused as  the	 assailants.On  that finding the conviction under section 302 read	withsection	 149 can be sustained.	We accordingly uphold  theseconvictions.   The acquittals in the other three cases	willof  course stand but the mere fact that these persons  have,in  our	 opinion, been wrongly acquitted cannot	 affect	 theconviction in other cases ".In  that  case although the High Court had  acquitted  threeaccused persons of an offence under s. 302 read(1) [1902] 2 K.B. 339.	       (2) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 881.(3)  [1954] S.C.R. 145.7with  s.  149, Indian Penal Code, yet as in the	 opinion  ofthis  Court  the  acquittal  was  wrong	 s.  149  was	heldapplicable in the case of four others who had been convictedby the High Court of s. 302 read with s. 149.  The  decisionin   that  case	 must  be  circumscribed  to  the   peculiarcircumstances of that case.  In the present case the  personwho  demanded  the illegal gratification  for  allowing	 thecarts  to proceed was Khalilur Rahman who had the  authorityto  do	or  not	 to do a particular act	 and  all  that	 theappellant  is alleged to have done was to receive the  moneyat  the	 instance of Khalilur Rahman for counting  and	thenpaid the money to him.	It is not the prosecution case	thatthe  appellant abetted the offence by  instigating  KhalilurRahman	to  demand  the illegal ratification;  nor  has	 theprosecution  set up or proved a case of	 conspiracy  betweenthe  appellant and Khalilur Rahman for the commission of  anoffence	 under	s. 161.	 On the findings of  the  Court	 theappellant  received the money for and on behalf of  KhalilurRahman and the evidence of the complainant is that  KhalilurRahman	had asked him to hand over the money to	 the  appel-lant.	If  Khalilur Rahman is acquitted and  therefore	 theoffence	 under	s. 161 is held not to have  been  committed,then in this case no question of intentionally aiding by anyact  or omission the commission of the offence	arises.	  Itmay  be	 as counsel for the respondent	contended  that	 theacquittal of Khalilur Rahman is wrong and it appears and  wesay so with respect that the findings of the High Court	 areinconsistent  but  as the matter of Khalilur Rahman  is	 notbefore	us  by	way of appeal against acquittal	 we  do	 notexpress any opinion on that question.We  are	 of  the  opinion  that	 on  the  facts	 found	 andcircumstances  established  in	this case  and	as  KhalilurRahman has been acquitted the appellant's conviction  cannotbe upheld.  We therefore allow this appeal and set aside theorder  of  conviction.	 The bail  bonds  shall	 also  standdischarged.				   Appeal allowed.8