PETITIONER:RAM NATH AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:M/s.  RAM NATH CHHITTAR MAL AND	 OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:08/09/1960BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1961 AIR  104		  1961 SCR  (1) 600ACT:Suit  for ejectment Bona fide requirements  for	 rebuilding-Delhi  &  Ajmer	 Rent Control Act, 1952 (38  of	 1952),	 Ss.13(g), 15.HEADNOTE:Three  separate	 suits for eviction by	the  appellant	werebrought	 against the three respondents within the  frameworkof the Delhi & Ajmer Rent Control Act and were based on	 theprovisions  of	s. 13(g) for the bona fide  requirements  ofrebuilding.  Terms of compromise which were substantially inaccordance with the provisions of s. 15 of the Act were	 putin  by	the parties and decrees were passed  in	 the  suits,under	which  the  premises  had  to  be  vacated  by	 therespondents   on  a  specified	day,  which  condition	 therespondents  failed to observe and actually handed over	 thepossession  of	the premises in suit at a  later  date.	  Oncompletion   of	 the  building	the  respondents  filed	  anapplication under s. 15 of the Act for their being put	intopossession.   The High Court inter alia held that though  s.15 of the Act was not applicable to the proceedings yet	 therespondents  could  impose the terms of the decree  and	 theproceedings  could be treated as execution  proceedings	 forenforcing  the	said terms.  The appellants  challenged	 thejudgments of the High Court and contended that on the  factsof the case and the circumstances, the decrees in suit unders.  13(1) proviso (d) shows that the order was passed and  adecree made in accordance with the terms of S. 15 of the Actand  further it was significant that the  respondents  them-selves had made the application to the Court under s. 15  ofthe Act.  The respondents submitted that the decree was	 notone under s. 15 of the Act because the decree was based on acompromise  and the time for giving possession was  not.  ofthe essence of the contract :Held, that as the tenant respondents did not deliver posses-sion of the premises to the landlord appellant on or  beforethe  dates specified in the decree, the provisions of s.  15(3)  of	 the Delhi and Ajmer Rent Control Act (38  of  1952)were not available to them and they were not entitled to  beput in possession.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 401 to	 403of 1960.Appeals by special leave from the judgment and orders  datedMarch: 1, 1960, of the Punjab High Court601(Circuit Bench) at Delhi in Civil Revision Cases Nos. 166-D,167-D and 168-D of 1958.A.   V.	 Viswanatha Sastri, S. S.  Chadha and R. S.  Narula,for the appellants (in all the appeals).C.   B. Aggarwala and B. Kishore, for the respondents (in C.A. No. 401 of 60).C.   B.	 Aggarwala,  R. M. Gupta and G. O. Mathur,  for	 therespondents (In C. As.	Nos. 402 & 403 of 60).1960.  September 8. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyKAPUR J.-These appeals are directed against three  judgmentsand orders of the Punjab High Court in three Civil RevisionsNos.  166-D,  167-D  and 168-D which  were  brought  by	 theappellants against three of their tenants under s. 35 of theDelhi	&  Ajmer  Rent	Control	 Act  (XXXVIII	 of   1952),hereinafter termed the Act.  The appellants in all the threeappeals	 are the landlords and the respondents in the  threeappeals are three different tenants.The  appellants filed three separate suits for the  evictionof their three tenants under cl. (g) of proviso to s.  13(1)of  the Act on the ground that the premises were  bona	fiderequired for purposes of rebuilding.  On February 27,  1953,the parties in all the three suits entered into a compromisein the following terms :"We have compromised the case with the plaintiff.  A  decreemay be passed for Rs. 82/8/- on account of rent in suit	 andfor  ejectment in respect of the shop in suit in  favour  ofthe  plaintiff against the defendants' The  defendants	willvacate	the shop by 4-3-53 and hand over possession  to	 theplaintiff  and the plaintiff will hand over  its  possessionagain (second time) to the defendants within six months from4-3-53 after constructing it afresh.  We shall pay such rentas this court will fix ".Thereupon the court passed the following order and a  decreefollowed thereon:-"  In terms of the statements of the  plaintiff.,  defendantand  counsel  for  defendants a decree	for  Rs.  82/8/-  onaccount of rent in suit be passed in favour602of  the plaintiff against the defendants.  Also	 decree	 forejectment be passed in respect of the shop in suit in favourof  the	 plaintiff  against  the  defendants  and  that	 thedefendants do give possession of the shop in suit by  4-3-53to  the plaintiff and that the plaintiff after	constructingit  afresh  within  six months from 4-3-53 give	 it  to	 thedefendants.   From out of the money deposited, a sum of	 Rs.82/8/- be paid to the plaintiff and the balance returned  tothe defendants.	 The defendants shall be responsible to	 paythe rent fixed by the court ".According  to the decree the possession was to be  given  tothe  appellants	 on  March  4, 1953,  but  it  was  actuallydelivered  by the three respondents between March 7 and	 15,1953.	 On  the  completion  of  the  building	 the   threerespondents filed three separate applications under s. 15 ofthe  Act  for  their  being  put  into	possession.    Theseapplications were filed on October 7, 1953.  The High  Courtheld  that the compromise did not comprise any matter  whichwas  not  the  subject	matter	of  the	 suit  ;  that	 therespondents  could  enforce the terms of the decree  in	 theproceedings which they took, i. e., under s. 15 of the	Act;that  time  was	 not of the essence of	the  compromise	 andtherefore  of  the decree and consequently in spite  of	 thepossession  of	the  premises  having  been  given  by	 therespondents  after the date specified in the decree, i.	 e.,March 4, 1953, the respondents were entitled to enforce	 thedecree by execution and apply for possession being  restoredto them ; at any rate they could apply for restitution underthe  inherent powers of the Court.  Thus the High Court	 wasof  the	 opinion  that though s. 15(2) of the  Act  was	 notapplicable  to	the  proceedings they could  be	 treated  asExecution proceedings.	Against this judgment and order	 theappellants  have  come in appeal to this  court	 by  specialleave.Under s. 13 of the Act the respondents are protected againsteviction  excepting  for the reasons given in  the  proviso.The  appellants	 had filed the original suits  for  evictionunder s. 13, proviso (g), which was as under603Section	 13:-"	Notwithstanding	 anything  to  the  contrarycontained  in  any other law or any contract, no  decree  ororder  for the recovery of possession of any premises  shallbe passed by any court in favour of the landlord against anytenant including a tenant whose tenancy is terminated):Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall apply to anysuit or other proceeding for such recovery of possession  ifthe Court is satisfied-(g)  that  the	premises  are  bona  fide  required  by	 thelandlord  for the purpose of rebuilding the premises or	 forthe  replacement of the premises by any building or for	 theerection  of  other  building  and  that  such	building  orrebuilding cannot be carried out without the premises  beingvacated ; ".Thus  when the suits were brought the provisions of the	 Actwere invoked.  The decrees passed were on the basis that thepremises were required by the landlord for rebuilding  whichfalls  under  s. 13 and the decrees  also  incorporated	 therequirements of s. 15 which provides:-"The  Court shall, when passing any decree or order  on	 thegrounds specified in clause (f) or clause (g) of the provisoto sub. section (1) of section 13 ascertain from the  tenantwhether he elects to be placed in occupation of the premisesor  part thereof from which he is to be evicted and if,	 thetenant	so elects, shall record the fact of the election  inthe  decree  or	 order and specify therein the	date  on  orbefore which he shall deliver possession so as to enable thelandlord  to  commence the work of repairs  or	building  orrebuilding, as the case may be.(2)  If the tenant delivers possession on or before the datespecified in the decree or order, the landlord shall, on thecompletion of the work of repairs or building or  rebuildingplace  the  tenant  in occupation of the  premises  or	partthereof.(3)  If,  after	 the tenant has delivered possession  on  orbefore	the  date  specified  in the  decree  or  order	 thelandlord  fails to commence the work of repairs or  buildingor  rebuilding	within one month of the	 specified  date  orfails to complete the work in a reasonable604time or having completed the work, fails to place the tenantin occupation of the premises in accordance with sub-section(2),  the Court may, on the application of the	tenant	madewithin one year from the specified date, order the  landlordto  place the tenant in occupation of the premises  or	partthereof	 on the original terms and conditions or to  pay  tosuch tenant such compensation as may be fixed by the Court".The  compromise, the order and the decree provided (1)	thatthe respondents will vacate their respective shops on  March4,  1953,  and hand over possession to the  appellants;	 (2)they  elected to get back possession after  rebuilding,whichthe appellants agreed to hand back on September 4, 1953; (3)the  rent after such possession was to be determined by	 thecourt.	 It was contended on behalf of the  appellants	thatthe above facts taken with the circumstances that the decreewas passed in a suit under s. 13(1), proviso (g), show	thatthis  was  an order passed and a decree made  in  accordancewith the terms of s. 15 of the Act.  It is significant	thatthe  respondents  themselves made the  applications  to	 thecourt under s. 15 of the Act.For  the respondents it was argued that the decree  was	 notone under s. 15 of the Act because the decree was based on acompromise whereby the parties fixed the date of delivery ofpossession to the appellants; fixed the date for  completionof  the	 rebuilding  and agreed	 between  themselves  as  torepossession  by  the respondents.  It	was  submitted	thatalthough the time for giving delivery to the appellants	 wasfixed  in  the compromise it was not of the essence  of	 thecontract.In our opinion the contentions raised by the appellants	 arewell founded and the appellants must succeed.  The suits foreviction  were brought within the framework of the  Act	 andwere  based  on the provisions of s. 13,  proviso  (g).	  Noeviction would have been possible excepting when  conditionslaid  down in s. 13 were satisfied.  The decrees which	werepassed were substantially in accordance with the  provisionsof  s. 15 of the Act and as was contended by the  appellantsthey were decrees under which the premises had to be vacatedby the respondents on a specified day.605Under that section they had the right to elect and did electto  get possession after rebuilding; this possession was  tobe given by the landlords to the tenants within a reasonabletime and six months' period was fixed by Consent between theparties	 and the rent, if the respondents were not put	intopossession on the same terms as before, was to be settled bycourt  and  that  is what was done under the  terms  of	 theconsent	 decree.   The	applications  for  being  put	intopossession  which were filed by the respondents were  reallyunder s. 15(3) of the Act.  As the respondents did not deli-ver  possession	 to the appellants on or  before  the  datesspecified in the decree the provisions of s. 15 contained insub-s.	(3) of that Act were not available to them and	theywere  ,not entitled to be put into possession as  prayed  bythem.It  was argued that the appellants had taken  possession  ofthe  premises after the specified date without	protest	 andhad even accepted rent upto then and were therefore estoppedfrom  raising that defence.  The appellants had conceded  inthe court,% below that plea could be raised in a suit if  itwas  brought.	In  the	 view we  have	taken  we  think  itunnecessary to express any opinion oil this point.The  High  Court was, in our opinion, in error	in  orderingpossession to be, delivered to the respondents.	 The appealsmust  therefore be allowed and the judgments and  orders  ofthe  High Court set aside.  The appellants will	 have  theircosts in this Court.  One set of hearing Costs.Appeal allowed.606