PETITIONER:SURAJPAL SINGH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESHDATE OF JUDGMENT:07/12/1960BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)SARKAR, A.K.AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALAMUDHOLKAR, J.R.CITATION: 1961 AIR  583		  1961 SCR  (2) 971 CITATOR INFO : D	    1964 SC 464	 (13,33) D	    1971 SC 786	 (6,15) RF	    1977 SC2091	 (5) RF	    1979 SC 602	 (6)ACT:Criminal   Misconduct--Acquittal  under	 one   category	  ofcriminal   misconduct  charged--Conviction   under   anothercategory  not  charged--Legality  of--Presumption,   Whethercreates	 an offence--Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947	 (11of 1947), s. 5, sub-ss. (1), (2), (3).HEADNOTE:The  appellant was a Head Constable attached to	 a  malkhanawhere  articles	 seized in connection with  excise  offenceswere  kept in deposit.	The appellant was charged  under  S.5(1)(c)	 read  with s. 5(2), Prevention of  Corruption	Act,1947,	in   that  he  had   dishonestly   or	fraudulentlymisappropriated	 or  otherwise converted to  his  use  thesearticles; the charge further stated that a sum of Rs. 9,284-1-0 was recovered from him which was disproportionate to hisknown  sources	of income.  He was acquitted of	 the  chargeunder  s.  5(1)(c) but was convicted under s.  5(2)  on	 theground that he had failed to account satisfactorily for	 thepossession  of Rs. 9,284-1-0 which was	disproportionate  tohis known sources of income.Held, that the conviction of the appellant under S. 5(2)  ofthe  Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947, was  illegal.	 Theonly charge against the appellant was of criminal misconductunder S. 5(1)(c) of the Act for dishonestly or	fraudulentlymisappropriating  property  entrusted  to him  and  of	thischarge he could have been convicted by invoking the rule  ofpresumption under s. 5(3).  But since this was not done	 andhe  was acquitted of that charge, he could not be  convictedof  criminal misconduct referred to in cls. (a), (b) or	 (d)of  s. 5(1) for which he had not been charged.	 The  Courtsbelow had proceeded wrongly on the footing as though  sub-s.(2)  or sub-s. (3) of s. 5 created an offence;	the  offencewhich  was  punishable	under s. 5 (2)	or  which  could  befounded	 on  the rule of presumption under S. 5(3)  was	 theoffence	 of criminal misconduct of one or more of the  cate-gories mentioned in cls. (a) to (d) of sub-s. (1) of S- 5.C.S. D. Swamy v.. The State, [1960] 1 S.C.R. 461,  refer-red to.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 169  of1959.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedMarch  27,  1958, of the Allahabad High	 Court	in  CriminalAppeal No. 785 of 1955.972Nuruddin Ahmad and Naunit Lal, for the appellant.G. C. Mathur and C. P. Lal, for the respondent.1960.	December 7. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyS.K. DAS, J.-This is an appeal by special leave from  thejudgment  and  order  of the High  Court  of  Judicature  atAllahabad dated March 27, 1958, whereby the said High  Courtmaintained the conviction of the appellant under s. 5(2)  ofthe  Prevention	 of  Corruption Act, 1947 (2  of  1947)	 butreduced	 the sentence of four years'  rigorous	imprisonmentpassed on the appellant by the Special Judge, Kanpur, to twoyears' rigorous imprisonment.The short facts are these.  The appellant Surajpal Singh wasemployed  in  the  Police Department of	 the  Uttar  PradeshGovernment.   He  started his service as a  constable  on  asalary of Rs. 13 per month from August 1, 1930.	 In 1946 hispay  was increased to Rs. 46 per month.	 He was appointed  aHead constable on a salary of Rs. 50 per month in 1947.	  Heofficiated as a Sub-Inspector of Police sometime in 1948 and1949 on a salary of Rs. 150 per month.	On March 1, 1949, hewas  reverted  to his post of Head constable.	Between	 thedates  February	 27,  1951, and September 9,  1952,  he	 wasposted	as a Head constable attached to the Sadar  Malkhana,Kanpur.	 The charge against him was that in that capacity hedishonestly  or	 fraudulently misappropriated  or  otherwiseconverted  to his own use many articles,  principally  thoseseized in connection with excise offences kept in deposit inthe  said Malkhana.  These articles included opium,  bottlesof liquor etc.	The charge further stated that a sum of	 Rs.9,284-1-0  was	recovered  on  a  search  of  his  house  onSeptember   9	and   10,   1952   and	 this	amount	 wasdisproportionate  to  the  known sources of  income  of	 theappellant.  There was an allegation by the prosecution	thatthe  acts of dishonest misappropriation etc. were  committedby the appellant in conspiracy with two other persons calledBhagawat  Singh	 and Gulab Singh.   Therefore,	the  chargesagainst the973appellant  were (1) for the offence of conspiracy  under  s.120B of the Indian Penal Code; (2) for the offence under  s.5(1)(c)	 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947, for	 theacts  of  dishonest misappropriation or user, read  with  s.5(2) of the said Act; and (3) for an offence under s. 465 ofthe Indian Penal Code in respect of a particular entry	saidto  have been forged in the Register of Properties  kept  inthe Sadar Malkhana.The  learned Special Judge who tried the appellant  BhagawatSingh  and  Gulab Singh recorded an order  of  acquittal  inrespect of the latter two persons.  As to the appellant,  hewas  also  acquitted of all the charges	 except	 the  chargeunder s. 5(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.  On	thischarge	the  learned  Special Judge  recorded  an  order  ofconviction,  but this was based on the sole ground that	 theappellant  had	failed	to account  satisfactorily  for	 thepossession of Rs. 9,284-1-0 which, according to the  findingof  the learned Special Judge, was disproportionate  to	 theknown  sources	of income of the appellant.   It  should  benoted here that the learned Special Judge held the appellantnot guilty of the various acts of dishonest misappropriationor  user  alleged against him in respect of  the  propertieskept in the Sadar Malkhana.In his appeal to the High Court the appellant urged  variousgrounds, one of which was that he could not be convicted  onthe  rule of presumption laid down in sub-s. (3) of s. 5  ofthe  Prevention	 of Corruption Act, 1947, when on  the	onlycharge	of criminal misconduct alleged under s.	 5(1)(c)  ofthe  said Act he had been found not guilty.  The High  Courtrepelled  this contention and upheld the conviction  of	 theappellant but reduced the sentence.The   principal	 question  before  us  is  whether  in	 thecircumstances of this case, the conviction of the  appellanton the charge under sub-s. (2) of s. 5 of the Prevention  ofCorruption Act, 1947, by invoking the rule of presumption aslaid down in sub-s. (3) of that section, is correct.It is convenient to read here s. 5 of the Prevention123974of Corruption Act, 1947, in so far as it is relevant for ourpurpose."S.  5(1) A public servant is said to commit the offence  ofcriminal misconduct in the discharge of his duty-(a)if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to acceptor attempts to obtain from any person for himself or for anyother	person	 any   gratification   (other	than   legalremuneration) as a motive or reward such as is mentioned  insection 161 of the Indian Penal Code, or(b)if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to acceptor  attempts to obtain for himself or for any other  person,any   valuable	 thing	without	 consideration	or   for   aconsideration  which  he knows to be  inadequate,  from	 anyperson whom he knows to have been, or to be, or to be likelyto be concerned in any proceeding or business transacted  orabout to be transacted by him, or having any connection withthe  official functions of himself or of any public  servantto whom he is subordinate, or from any person whom he  knowsto  be interested in or related to the person so  concerned,or(c)if  he dishonestly or fraudulently  misappropriated	orotherwise converts for his own use any property entrusted tohim  or under his control as a public servant or allows	 anyother person so to do, or(d)if  he,  by corrupt or illegal means	 or  by	 otherwiseabusing his position as public servant, obtains for  himselfor  for	 any other person any valuable	thing  or  pecuniaryadvantage.(2)Any	public servant who commits criminal misconduct	inthe   discharge	 of  his  duty	shall  be  punishable	withimprisonment  for  a term which shall not be less  than	 oneyear  but which may extend to seven years and shall also  beliable to fine:Provided  that	the  Court  may,  for  any  special  reasonsrecorded  in writing' impose a sentence of  imprisonment  ofless than one year.(2A)............................................................(3) In any trial of an offence punishable under	 sub-section(2) the fact that the accused person or any975other  person on his behalf is in possession, for which	 theaccused	 person cannot satisfactorily account, of  pecuniaryresources or property disproportionate to his known  sourcesof  income may be proved, and on such proof the court  shallpresume,  unless  the contrary is proved, that	the  accusedperson is guilty of criminal misconduct in the discharge  ofhis  official duty and his conviction therefor shall not  beinvalid by reason only that it is based solely on such	pre-sumption."Now, learned Counsel for the appellant has put his  argumenton  the	 principal  question in the following  way:  he	 hassubmitted  that	 the is not in a position in  an  appeal  byspecial leave to go behind the finding of fact arrived at bythe  courts  below.  The appellant, it	appears,  gave	someexplanation with regard to the possession of Rs.  9,284-1-0.That  explanation was not, however, accepted by	 the  courtsbelow.	Learned Counsel has submitted that he does not	wishto  go behind that finding of fact.  He has submitted,	how-ever,  that  the  scheme  of  s.  5  of	 the  Prevention  ofCorruption Act, 1947 is this: sub-s. (1) defines the offenceof  criminal misconduct in the discharge of his duties by  apublic	servant;  the  offence can be one or  more  of	fourcategories  mentioned in cls. (a), (b), (c) and (d):  sub-s.(2) is the penal section which states the punishment for theoffence	 of criminal misconduct; and sub-s. (3) lays down  arule  of presumption and states that no conviction  for	 theoffence	 shall	be invalid by reason only that it  is  basedsolely	on  such presumption.  Learned Counsel	has  pointedout,  rightly  in our opinion, that the charge	against	 theappellant  in  the present case referred  only	to  criminalmisconduct in the discharge of his duty by a public  servantof the nature mentioned in cl. (c) of sub-s. (1).  In  otherwords,	the  charge against the appellant was  that  he	 haddishonestly  or	 fraudulently misappropriated  or  otherwiseconverted for his own use property entrusted to him etc.  Itwas open to the learned Special Judge to have convicted	 theappellant   of	that  offence  by  invoking  the   rule	  ofpresumption  laid down in sub-s. (3).  He did not,  however,do so.	On the976contrary,  he  acquitted  the  appellant  on  that   charge.Therefore, learned Counsel has submitted that by calling  inaid  the  rule of presumption laid down in sub-s.  (3),	 theappellant  could  not be found guilty of any other  type  ofcriminal  misconduct referred to in cls. (a), (b) or (d)  ofsub-s.	(1) in respect of which there was no charge  againstthe appellant.We  consider that the above argument of learned Counsel	 forthe appellant is correct and must be, accepted.	 This  Courtpointed	 out in C. S. D. Swamy v. The State (1) that  sub-s.(3)  of s. 5 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947	doesnot  create  a	new offence but only lays  down	 a  rule  ofevidence  which empowers the Court to presume the  guilt  ofthe  accused in certain circumstances, contrary to the	wellknown principle of Criminal law that the burden of proof  isalways on the prosecution and never shifts on to the accusedperson.	 In Swamy's case there were charges for the  offenceof criminal misconduct under two heads, cl. (a) and cl. (d).The  trial court held the accused person' in that  case	 notguilty	of  the	 offence under cl. (a)	but  guilty  of	 theoffence	 under cl. (d) by invoking the rule  of	 presumptionlaid  down  in sub-s. (3) of s. 5. The	distinction  betweenthat  case and the case under our consideration is this:  inSwamy's case there were two charges either of which could befounded on the rule of presumption laid down in sub-s.	(3);but  in	 our  case  there is only  one	charge	of  criminalmisconduct  of	which  the  appellant  has  been  acquitted;therefore, there is no other charge which can be founded  onthe rule of presumption referred to in sub-s. (3).  This  isthe  difficulty	 with which the respondent is faced  in	 thepresent	 case.	 It appears to us that the  learned  SpecialJudge and the High Court proceeded wrongly on the footing asthough sub-s. (2) or sub-s. (3) of s.	5 of the Act createsan offence.  The offence which is  punished under sub-s. (2)or  can be founded on the rule of presumption laid  down  insub-s. (3) must be the offence of criminal misconduct of oneor  more of the categories mentioned in cls. (a) to  (d)  ofsub-s.	(1).  In the case before us the only category  whichwas alleged against the appellant was that of category (c),(1)  [1960] 1 S.C.R. 461.977namely, dishonest or fraudulent misappropriation etc.	Thatcharge having failed, there was no other charge which  couldbe  founded on the rule of presumption laid down  in  sub-s.(3).Learned	 Counsel  for  the respondent  State  has  contendedbefore us that it was open to the appellate Court to  affirmthe conviction of the appellant under sub-s. (2) of s. 5  byholding him guilty of the offence of criminal misconduct  ofthe category mentioned in cl. (a) or cl. (d) of sub-s.	(1).We  are	 unable to accept this contention as  correct.	 Theprosecution never alleged that the sum of Rs. 9,284-1-0	 wasthe   result  of  the  appellant  habitually  accepting	  orobtaining  illegal gratification etc.  The prosecution	casewas  that  the sum of Rs. 9,284-1-0 was the  result  of	 thedishonest  user	 of property which was	entrusted  with	 theappellant.  It is not open to the appellate Court to  affirmthe  conviction	 of the Appellant on an	 entirely  new	casenever suggested against the appellant at any earlier  stage.It is unfortunate that in this case the courts below did notchoose to rely on the rule of presumption laid down in	sub-s. (3) with reference to the charge under cl. (c) of  sub-s.(1)  of s. 5. But that misfortune cannot now be repaired  byevolving  out of a vacuum as it were a new case against	 theappellant based on cl. (a) or cl. (d) of sub-s. (1) of s.  5in support of which no facts were ever alleged or suggested.For  the reasons given above, we allow this appeal  and	 setaside  the  conviction	and  sentence  passed  against	 theappellant.					Appeal allowed.978