PETITIONER:SHRIMATI VIDYA VERMA, THROUGH NEXT FRIEND R.V.S. MANI	Vs.RESPONDENT:DR. SHIV NARAIN VERMA.DATE OF JUDGMENT:11/11/1955BENCH:BOSE, VIVIANBENCH:BOSE, VIVIANDAS, SUDHI RANJANBHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.JAGANNADHADAS, B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.CITATION: 1956 AIR  108		  1955 SCR  (2) 983ACT:Fundamental Right, Infringement of-Detention by private per-son-Issue  of  writ-Power of Supreme  Court-Constitution  ofIndia, Arts. 21, 82.HEADNOTE:No  question of infringement of any fundamental right  underArt.  21  arises where the detention complained of is  by  aprivate person and not by, a State or under the authority ororders	of  a  State,  and  the	 Supreme  Court	 will	not,therefore,  entertain  an application for a writ of  have  acorpus, under Art. 32 of the Constitution.Consequently  a petition under Art. 32 of  the	Constitutionfor a writ of habeas corpus founded on Art. 21 and  directedagainst a father for alleged detention of his daughter	doesnot lie.A.   K.	 Gopalan v. The State of Madras ([1950]	 S.C.R.	 88)and P. D    Shamdasani	v.  Central Bank  of  India  ([1952]S.C.R. 391), relied on.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 262 of 1955.Under  Article	32  of the Constitution for a  Writ  in	 thenature of Habeas Corpus.R.   V. S. Mani, the next friend, in person.M.   C.	 Setalvad, Attorney-General for India (G.. N.  Joshiand Porus A. Mehta, with him).Naunit Lal, for the respondent.9841955.  November II.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyBOSE  J.-This  is  a  petition	under  article	32  of	 theConstitution for a writ of habeas corpus.  The petition	 waspresented by Mr. R.V.S. Mani, an advocate of the Nagpur HighCourt,	on behalf of Shrimati Vidya Verma and  was  directedagainst her father Dr. Shiv Narayan Verma of Nagpur.Mr. Mani bad no power of attorney from the lady and when theoffice	pointed	 out that be could not	present	 a  petitionwithout	 producing  the necessary authority he	amended	 thepetition  and  described himself as the next friend  of	 thelady.When  the  matter first came up for hearing  we	 directed  anotice to issue to the father but later the same day it	 wasbrought to our notice that the opposite party was not eitherthe  Union  of India or a State, nor was  it  some  officialacting	under the orders of one or the other, but a  privateperson.	  The  question therefore arose of our	power  underarticle	 32 to issue a writ of this kind against  a  privateparty.	 Accordingly,  before  the notice was  sent  out  werecalled it and set the matter down for further hearing.Mr. Mani appeared again on the appointed date and was  robedas  he had been on the previous occasion.  He was  asked  toclarify	 his  position and when be said he had no  power  ofattorney  and explained that he was appearing in  a  privatecapacity as next friend he was told that at the next hearinghe  must address the Court without his robes.  He  was	alsowarned	that if he lost he might have to bear the  costs  ofthe  other  side personally.  After hearing Mr. Mani  for  atime we decided to fix a date for the hearing of a  prelimi-nary  question only, namely, whether a fundamental right  isinvolved  when the detention complained of is by  a  privateperson	and not by a State or under the authority or  ordersof  a  State.	We directed that notices be  issued  to	 theopposite party as well as to the Attorney-General of India.At  the	 adjourned  hearing Mr.	 Mani  appeared	 in  person,unrobed as directed, but with the advocate on985record	sitting	 by his side.  He asked	 for  permission  toaddress	 us  himself.	We declined to hear  him  unless  hedischarged the advocate on record.  He did that on the	spotand then proceeded to address us in person.As  the	 question  that arises here has	 been  discussed  atlength	in two earlier decisions of this Court we  need	 notexamine	 the matter, in any detail.  The  fundamental  rightthat is said to be infringed is the one conferred by article21: the right to personal liberty.  In A. K. Gopalan v.	 TheState  of Madras(1) four of the six learned Judges who	werein that case held that the word "law" in article 21 referredto  State-made	law and not to law in  the  abstract.	Theyrejected  the contention that this was the same as  the	 dueprocess	 clause in the American Constitution.	One  learnedJudge dissented and one expressed no opinion on this  point.Patanjali Sastri., J. (as he then was) said at page 204 thatas a rule constitutional safeguards are directed against theState  and its organs and that protection against  violationof rights by individuals must be sought in the ordinary law;and  S. R. Das, J. dealing with the question  of  preventivedetention said at page 324 that article 21 protects a personagainst	 preventive detention by the executive	without	 thesanction of a law made by the legislature.This principle was applied to articles 19(1) (f) and 31 (1)by  a  Bench of five Judges in P. D. Shamdasani	 v.  CentralBank  of  India(1)  who held that  violation  of  rights  ofproperty  by a private individual is not within the  purviewof  these  articles,  therefore a  person  whose  rights  ofproperty  are infringed by a -private individual  must	seekhis remedy under the ordinary law and not under article	 32.Article 21 was not directly involved but the learned  Judgesreferring to article 31(1) said at page 394:"It  is	 clear that it is a declaration of  the	 fundamentalright of private property in the same negative form in whicharticle	 21  declares  the fundamental	right  to  life	 andliberty.   There  is no express reference to  the  State  inarticle 21.  But could it be(1) [1950] S.C.R. 88.(2) [1952] S.C.R. 391.986suggested on that account that that article was intended  toafford	protection  to	life and  personal  liberty  againstviolation  by  private individuals?  The  words	 (except  byprocedure  established	by  law'  plainly  exclude  such   asuggestions.They  held that the language of article 31 (1)	was  similarand  decided that article 31 (1) did not apply to  invasionsof a right by a private individual and consequently no	writunder  article	32 would lie in such a case.  For  the	samereasons	 we hold that the present petition which is  foundedon  article  21	 does  not lie	under  article	32.   It  isaccordingly dismissed.As  regards costs Mr. Mani has no power of attorney and	 haschosen to appear as next friend despite the warning given tohim at the last hearing. This is the fourth time the matter is being agitated in theCourts.	 The first attempt was an application under  section100  of the Criminal Procedure Code made by the person	who,according  to Mr. Mani, is the husband of the lady in  whoseinterests  he says he is acting.  It was filed on  10-9-1954and asked for a search warrant for the recovery of the lady.The application was dismissed and a revision filed againstthe order of dismissal also failed.The same gentleman then applied to the High Court at  Nagpuron  18-10-1954 under section 491 of the	 Criminal  ProcedureCode.  The learned Judges examined the lady, who is 25 yearsold,  in  person, on 20-10-1954 and on the strength  of	 herstatement,  which they recorded, they held that she was	 notunder  any restraint either in the house or outside  and  sodismissed the application on 10-11-1954.Mr.  Mani  then	 took up the cudgels  and  filled  a  secondpetition in the High Court on 6-12,1954, also under  section491.  The learned Judges again examined the lady, this	timeon two successive days.	 On 20-12-1954 she said that she didnot want to live with her father but wanted to live with heruncle  at  Waraseoni.  She appeared again the next  day	 andclarified  this by saying that she would go to her uncle  inthe  company  of  her father.  She said,  that	she  had  nodiscomfort  in	living with her father but was not  at	easewith him987and would have more peace of mind with her uncle.  She	alsosaid:"I  have no need of any counsel and have nothing to talk  toShri R. V. S. Mani".The  girl  was allowed to go to her uncle.   Mr.  Mani	thenapplied	 for  leave  to withdraw  the  petition.   This	 wasallowed on 24-1-1955 and no order was made about costs.Then  came the present petition on 22-8-1955.  The  petitiondoes not disclose that Mr. Mani made any attempt to  consultthe  person who he says is the husband of the lady  (a	factwhich  is disputed and on which we express no  opinion)	 nordoes it show that he made any attempt to contact either	 thelady  or  her father or even her uncle.	 He  has  had  threehearings  in  this Court despite the warning  he  was  givenabout costs and the learned Attorney-General was also  askedby  us to appear.  When the arguments were  fully  concludedand  Mr. Mani found that we were against him he adopted	 thesame  tactics  as  in the Nagpur High Court  and  asked	 forpermission to withdraw the petition.  That was refused.	  Weinvited	 him to show cause why he should not be made to	 paythe  costs  and	 have  heard all he  has  to  say.   In	 thecircumstances set out above, we feel this is a case in whichhe should be made to pay the costs personally.We  dismiss  the petition and direct that Mr. Mani  pay	 thecosts of the opposite party personally in addition to  thoseof  the learned Attorney-General and that he bear  his	own,also personally.125988