PETITIONER:BACHHARAM DATTA PATIL AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:VISHWANATH PUNDALIK PATIL ANDOTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:20/09/1956BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.JAGANNADHADAS, B.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR   34		  1956 SCR  675ACT:Watan  lands-Resumption	 by Government-Dispensing  with	 theservices  and levying of full assessment-Lands	subsequentlydescribed   as	Japti  Sanadi  Inam   lands-Whether   retaincharacter of Watan lands.HEADNOTE:Certain lands which were originally Watan lands were resumedby  the Government after dispensing with the  services	thatwere being rendered and full assessment was levied  thereon.Thelands were subsequently described as "Japti Sanadi  Inam"lands.Held, that the lands had lost their character as Watan landsand had become ryotwari lands of the holder.Ramijyabi  Muktum Saheb v. Gudusaheb, (54 Bom.	 L.R.  405),approved.The very description of the lands as Japti Sanadi Inam landsmeans that the lands were once the subject matter of an Inamgrant  by  virtue  of  a Sanad	and  have  been	 resumed  orconfiscated by theGovernment and have been left in the hands of the holder  asryotwari holding.The  Government may commute the services to be rendered	 andit  will then depend on the terms of the  agreement  betweenthe  holder  of the Watan lands and the	 Government  enteredinto at the time of the commutation whether the lands are toretain their character as Watan lands or not.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 249 of 1953.On appeal from the judgment and decree dated the 1st day  ofSeptember,  1949, of the Bombay High Court in Appeal No.  23of 1947 from original decree arising out of the decree datedthe 28th September 1946 of the Civil Judge, Session Divisionat Belgawn in Suit No. 360 of 1945.K.R. Beneri, J. B.  Dadachanji -and Sri Narain Andley for A.C. Dave for the appellants.H.B. Datar and Naunit Lal for respondent No. 1.6761956.	September  20.	  The  Judgment	 of  the  Court	 wasdelivered bySINHA  J.-This is an appeal -by leave of the High  Court  ofJudicature  at Bombay from the decision of a Division  Benchof  that Court reversing that of the trial court in  respectof  items 3, 4 and 6 in the list of the properties  attachedto  the	 plaint as the subject-matter of  the  dispute.	  Inrespect of the other items of property in dispute the courtsbelow have given concurrent decisions and that part of theirjudgments  is  no more in controversy at  this	stage.	 Thethree items aforesaid of the property along with the  othersin  dispute  had  been decreed in favour  'of  the  originalplaintiffs 2 and 3 as Watan property.  But on appeal by	 thethird defendant, the High Court reversed the decision of thetrial  court  only  in	respect of  those  three  items	 andconfirmed the decision of the trial court in respect of	 therest of the plaint properties.The  propositus	 was  one Shreemant who	 died  on  the	23rdNovember,  1941	 leaving him surviving	his  wife  Radhabai.Radhabai  died	on  the 9th May 1945 and on  her  death	 thedispute	 arose	between	 the reversioners on  the  one	handincluding the plaintiffs 2 and 3, appellants in this  Court,and  the  defendants on the other who claimed by  virtue  ofalleged	 adoptions  said  to  have  been  made	by  Radhabaiaforesaid.  The first plaintiff is out of the picture now onthe concurrent finding by the courts below that he had noright  to the state left by the propositus by virtue of	 theadoption  found	 in his favour, inasmuch as  before  he	 wasadopted	 the  estate  had  already  vested  in	the   actualreversioners,  plaintiffs-2 and 3, the agnatic relations  ofShreemant.  The estate of Shreemant, so far as it related toWatan  lands, vested in plaintiffs 2 and 3  aforesaid  underthe provisions of Bombay Act v of 1886.	 If either defendant2 or defendant 3 bad proved-his alleged adoption by Radhabaiaforesaid, he would have been entitled to the estate as	 theadopted	 son of the propositus, thus excluding	the  agnaticrelations,  namely, plaintiffs 2 and 3. But both the  courtsbelow- have concurrently found that		  677neither	 of  the  two  defendants  2  and  3  had  succeededin  proving the adoption respectively pleaded by them.	 Thetrial court had substantially decreed the suit in respect ofall  the  items of property in dispute including  the  threeitems which, as indicated above, are the only properties nowin controversy in this Court, on the finding that these alsowere  Watan  properties which like the rest  of	 the  plaintproperties  were  inherited by the  reversioners  aforesaid,namely,	 plaintiffs 2 and 3., The High Court on appeal	heldthat  the  three items of property now	in  dispute,  thoughoriginally  Watan  properties, had lost their  character  assuch  by  reason of the fact that they had been	 resumed  byGovernment  after  dispensing  with the	 service  and  afterlevying full assessment on those lands.	     Those     landshave been called "Japti Sanadi Inam	lands"	  in	 therecords of the courts below and it is	by  that  name	thatwe. shall refer to the disputed lands	in  the	 course	  ofthis judgment.It would thus appear that the controversy has narrowed	downto  the question whether the Japti Sanadi Inam	lands  stillretain	their character as Watan lands as held by the  trialcourt,	or have lost their character as such in view of	 theevents	that had happened as decided by the High Court.	  Itis  not	 disputed  that in the former  case  the  plaintiff-appellants  will be entitled to them also even as they	gavebeen  adjudged to be entitled to the rest of the  propertiesin dispute which were admittedly Watan lands.  It is equallyundisputed that, if the Japti Sanadi Inam lands are no	moreWatan  lands, this appeal must fail.  On this question	boththe courts below have been rather cryptic in their  remarks.The  trial  court  held them to be  Watan  lands,  with	 thefollowing observations:-"The lands at serial Nos. 3, 4 and 6 are Japti Sanadi lands.They  still retain the character of Sanadi lands inspite  ofthe fact that services have been temporarily dispensed	withand full assessment levied.  Sanadi lands have been held  tobe Watan lands governed by the Watan Act".The  trial  court  has	made  no  attempt  to  support	 itsconclusions with reference to any statutory rules or678precedents.  The lower appellate court has disposed of	thisquestion in these words:-"Now  it is conceded before us that there is no evidence  tosupport	 the  observation made by the learned  trial  Judge,that  the  services were temporarily dispensed with  by	 thegovernment.  If therefore,the Record of Rights show that thefull  assessment is being levied in respect of these  lands,and that services are not required to be performed and	theyare  described as Japti Sanadi Inam lands,  meaning  therebythat  they were once Sanadi lands, but in respect  of  whichthere has been resumption by the Government, the  conclusionmust  inevitably follow that these lands have ceased  to  belands  held  on	 Sanadi	 tenure and  are  held	in  ordinaryoccupancy rights".The learned counsel for the appellants has vehemently arguedthat  the  High Court was in error in  concluding  that	 thelands  in  question  had ceased to  be	Watan  lands  simplybecause	 the  service attaching to them had  been  dispensedwith  and  full	 assessment  levied  by	 Government.	Thisargument   was	based  on  the	provisions  of	the   BombayHereditary  Offices Act (Bombay Act III), 1874.	 Apart	fromauthority,  therefore,	we  have  to  examine  the  relevantprovisions  of that Act in order to determine whether  thoseprovisions  support the conclusions of the High	 Court.	  Insection 4, "Watan property", "Hereditary office" and "Watan"have been defined as follows:-"Watan	Property means movable or immovable  property  held,acquired  or  assigned for providing  remuneration  for	 theperformance  of	 the  duty  appertaining  to  an  hereditaryoffice.	  It  includes	a right to levy	 customary  fees  orperquisites, in money or in kind, whether at fixed times  orotherwise.   It	 includes cash payments in addition  to	 theoriginal  watan property made voluntarily by Government	 andsubject periodically to modification or withdrawal.'Hereditary office'-means every office held hereditarily forthe performance of duties connected with the  administrationor  collection	of the public revenue, or with	the  villagepolice,	 or  with  the settlement of  boundaries,  or  othermatters of civil administration,679The expression includes such office even where the  servicesoriginally appertaining to it have ceased to be demanded.The  watan-property, if any, and the hereditary	 office	 andthe   rights  and  privileges  attached	 to  them   togetherconstitute the watan".From these definitions it is clear that in order that  theremay  be	 a  Watan it is necessary that	there  should  be  ahereditary  office and Watan property which is	assigned  tothe "Watandar" by way of remuneration for the performance ofthe duty appertaining to his office.  But it has been arguedon  behalf of the appellants that it is common ground,	thatthe Sanadi Inam lands were once Watan property and that oncethe property is impressed with the character of inam  lands,they continue to bear that character, because the Governmenthave  not  been	 authorised  by	 any  law  to  change  theircharacter.   No precedent or statutory	provisions  directlysupporting  this wide proposition have been brought  to	 ournotice.	  But our attention was called to the provisions  ofsection	 15 which make it permissible for the  Collector  tocommute the service and- relieve the bolder of the Watan andhis heirs and successors in perpetuity of their liability toperform	 the  service on such conditions as  may  be  agreedupon.	If  we have been able correctly	 to  appreciate	 theargument based upon section 15, it was sought to be made outthat  the service in respect of the Watan lands in  questionmay  have been commuted, but even -after the commutation  ofthe  service the Watan remained and the lands  continued  toretain the character of Watan lands.  This argument  assumesthat even upon the service being entirely dispensed with  inperpetuity, the Watan character of the land continued.	Thatis begging the question.  Furthermore, clause (1) of section15  contemplates commutation "upon such conditions,  whetherconsistent with the provisions of this Act or not, as may beagreed	upon  by the Collector and such bolder".   Thus	 theconditions  to	be agreed upon between the  holder  of	landwhich  was  once part of a Watan and the Government  at	 thetime of the commutation may be of680so many varieties that in some cases the Watan character  ofthe land may be maintained, whereas in others the conditionsagreed	between the parties may themselves  contemplate	 thecessation  of  that character.	In the present	case,  apartfrom  the entries in the Record of Rights, we have no  otherevidence  to  indicate as to on what terms the	service	 badbeen  completely dispensed with in perpetuity and  the	fullassessment  levied upon those lands. , It is  not  thereforeclear upon the findings of the courts below that there	wereany such conditions attaching to the holding of the lands inquestion  which could be consistent with the continuance  ofthe original Watan tenure.  It is possible to conceive of  acase  where  the  conditions agreed  upon  provide  for	 thecontinuance  of the Watan tenure in spite of the  fact	thatthe  holders  have  been  excused  the	performance  of	 thecustomary service.  On the other hand, it may be that  therewere no conditions agreed between the parties continuing theWatan  character  of  the land	after  dispensing  with	 theservice.On the findings of the courts below there was no  hereditaryoffice	any more and therefore the question of	remuneratingany service with the usufruct of Watan property or otherwisedid not arise.	On the other hand, the provisions of section22  of the Act clearly predicate that a Watan may  lapse  inpart or in whole or may be confiscated or otherwise lawfullyresumed	 by Government and that in such cases it  is  lawfulfor Government to attach such land to a newly created  Watanin favour of such persons as may be appointed by Government.That  being so, it is impossible to contend that  Governmenthave not the power to destroy the Watan character of a Watanland.	Such  an  argument  completely	ignores	 the   legalposition that an authority which has the power to create  anoffice	and  to provide for its remuneration in cash  or  inkind  has also the power to revoke the grant, and upon	suchrevocation,  if any land has been assigned for	remuneratingthe  office so abolished it must revert to the	source	fromwhich it came; that is to say, ryotwari land subject to landrevenue assess-681ment.  That is what appears to have happened in the  presentcase.  The very description of the land as Japti Sanadi Inamland would mean that which was once the subject matter of aninam  grant  by	 virtue	 of a  sanad  has  been	 resumed  orconfiscated by Government and the land left in possession ofthe  holder  as	 ryotwari holding.  As pointed	out  by	 thecourts	below,	there  is no evidence  as  to  the  originalcharacter  of the grant or as to how and when the grant	 wasresumed	 and  the  land	 thus  became  subject	to  ordinaryoccupancy rights.  But they have proceeded on the basis thatit was the subject matter of a Watan by sanad which has beensubsequently  resumed by Government as service was  no	morerequired and the necessity for the grant was no more  there.They  have  only  differed  on	the  legal  result  of	 theresumption.A  similar  question arose for decision in the	Bombay	HighCourt in the case of Ramijyabi Muktum Saheb v.	Gudusaheb(1)after  the present case had been decided by that Court.	  Inthat case property which was originally Watan was  continuedwith the holder thereof but without the obligation to renderany service and with the full levy of assessment in  respectof the land.  The question arose whether such land continuedto  be	Watan  land with its special  incidents	 as  regardsalienation,  etc.,  or	whether it  was	 ordinary  occupancyholding.  A single Judge of that Court who heard the  appealin  the first instance came to the conclusion that the	landcontinued  to be Watan land.  On Letters Patent Appeal,	 theDivision  Bench	 after a very elaborate examination  of	 therelevant-rules	 and   precedents  came	 to   the   contraryconclusion  and	 held that the land had ceased to  have	 thecharacter  of Watan and was subject to the ordinary  law  of-land  tenures in that State.  We are in agreement with	 theconclusion reached by the Letters Patent Bench in that case,the  facts  of which were similar to those  of	the  presentcase.  Hence it must be held that there is neither authoritynor  principle in favour of the contention raised on  behalfof the appellants.The appeal is accordingly dismissed with costs.(1)  54 Bom.  L R. 405.682