PETITIONER:M/s.  GUDUTHUR BROS.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE INCOME-TAX OFFICER, SPECIAL	 CIRCLE, BANGALORE.DATE OF JUDGMENT:22/07/1960BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.DAS, S.K.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1326ACT:Income-tax--Assessment--Penalty--Imposition   by  Income-taxOfficer without reasonable opportunity given to assessee  ofbeing	heard--Order   set  aside  on  appeal	and   refunddirected--No   express	order  of   remand--Continuance	  ofProceedings  by	 the  Income-tax   Officer--Legality--IndianIncome-tax Act, 1922 (II of 1922), SS. 28 (I)(a) and 28(3).HEADNOTE:The  appellants	 failed	 to file  their	 return	 within	 theprescribed time and on a notice issued under S. 28(1)(a)  ofthe  Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, to show cause why  penaltyshould	not be imposed on them, they filed a written  reply.Without	 affording  them an opportunity of  being  heard  asrequired  by  S.  28(3) of the Act  the	 Income-tax  Officerimposed	 a  penalty  on	 them.	 On  appeal  the   AppellateAssistant  Commissioner	 set aside the	order  and  directedrefund	of the penalty.	 Thereafter the	 Income-tax  Officerissued a further notice giving an opportunity to the  appel-lants  of  being  heard.  The appellants  objected  to	thisnotice and72contended  that	 the  Income-tax  Officer  could  no  longerproceed	 to  re-assess	the penalty in	the  absence  of  anexpress	  order	 of  remand  by	 the   Appellate   AssistantCommissioner whose order had become final.Held,  that where an order of imposition of penalty made  bythe  Income-tax	 Officer  under S. 28(1)(a)  of	 the  IndianIncometax  Act was vitiated, not by any	 initial  illegalitybut  by	 one  which  supervened during	the  course  of	 theproceedings  and the said order was vacated on	appeal,	 theIncome-tax  Officer  was  well within  his  jurisdiction  incontinuing  the	 proceedings  from the stage  at  which	 theillegality  had	 occurred and could  re-assess	the  penaltythough no express order of remand was made.Jos Chacko Poothokaran v. Income-tax Officer, Ernakulam Cir-cle, [1957] 32 I.T.R. 648, not applied.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 261 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedNovember 6, 1956, of the Mysore High Court in Writ  PetitionNo. 215 of 1956.S.   N. Andley, J. B. Dadachanji, Rameshwar Nath and P.	  L.Vohra, for the appellants.K.   N. Rajagopal Sastri and D. Gupta, for the respondent.1960.  July 22.	 The Judgment of the Court was delivered byHIDAYATULLAH J.-This appeal has been filed with the  specialleave of this Court against a decision of the High Court  ofMysore,	 by which it dismissed in limine an  application  bythe appellants under Art. 226 of the Constitution for a writof  prohibition or some other appropriate writ	against	 theIncome-tax Officer, Bellary, Special Circle, Bangalore.The  facts of the case are as follows.	For  the  assessmentyear 1948-49, the appellants failed to file a return  withinthe prescribed time and the Income-tax Officer, acting unders. 28(1)(a) of the Indian Incometax Act, issued a notice  tothem  to show cause why penalty should not be  imposed.	  Inanswer to this notice, the appellants filed a written  replyand  the Income-tax Officer proceeded to levy a	 penalty  ofRs. 16,000, without affording a hearing to them as  requiredby the third sub-s. of s. 28 of the Income-tax73Act.  The matter was taken up in appeal before the AppellateAssistant Commissioner of Income-tax, who, pointing out thatan  opportunity	 of  being  heard was  not  granted  to	 theappellants, held that the order was defective.	He thereforeset aside that-order and directed the refund of the  penaltyif it had been recovered.On  receipt  of the order, the Income-tax Officer  issued  afurther notice calling upon the appellants to appear  beforehim,  so  that they might be given an opportunity  of  beingheard.	 He also intimated that if no appearance  was  made,then he would proceed to determine the question of  penalty,taking	into consideration only the written statement  whichhad  been  filed earlier.  Before, however,  the  Income-taxOfficer	 could	decide	the case,  the	appellants  filed  apetition under Art. 226 of the Constitution for the issuanceof  the writs mentioned above.	This petition was  dismissedin  limine  by the High Court holding  that  the  contentionraised	by the appellants may perhaps be raised	 before	 theIncome-tax  authorities.  The appellants  thereupon  appliedfor  special  leave  to this Court  and	 leave	having	beengranted, this matter comes up before us.There  is  no  question here that  the	requirements  of  s.28(1)(a)   of  the  Income-tax	Act  were   not	  completelyfulfilled.  If the appellants had not filed their return, asthey were required by law to do, the omission would  attractcl. (a) of sub-s. (1) of s. 28.	 We say nothing as to  that.Sub-section (3) of s. 28, however, requires that the penaltyshall  not  be imposed without affording to the	 assessee  areasonable opportunity of being heard.	This opportunity wasdenied	to  the appellants and therefore the  order  of	 theIncome-tax  Officer  was  vitiated by  an  illegality  whichsupervened,  ,not at the initial stage of  the	proceedings,but  during  the  course of it.	 The order  of	the  learnedAppellate  Assistant Commissioner pointed out the ground  onwhich  the illegality proceeded and his order directing	 therefund	 of  the  penalty,  if	recovered,  connot  but	  beinterpreted  as correcting the error and leaving it open  tothe Income-tax Officer to continue his proceedings from	 thestage at which the illegality occurred.1074No  express  remand for this purpose, as is  contended,	 wasnecessary.Our  attention was drawn to a decision of a  learned  SingleJudge of the Kerala High Court reported in   Jos      ChackoPoothokaran v. I. T. O., Ernakulam  Circle(1), in which,  insimilar circumstances, it has been held that since an appealwas  not  taken	 by the Commissioner of	 Income-tax  to	 theAppellate  Tribunal under sub-s. (2) of s. 33, the order  ofthe  Appellate Assistant Commissioner became final  and	 theIncometax  Officer could no longer proceed to  reassess	 thepenalty.   The reason given is, in our opinion,	 beside	 thepoint.	What the Appellate Assistant Commissioner did was tovacate the order and direct refund of the penalty in view ofan  illegality which had occurred during the course  of	 theassessment  proceedings.   On receipt of the record  it	 wasopen to the Incometax Officer to take up the matter from thepoint at which the illegality supervened and to correct	 hisproceedings.   It  was	pointed out in	the  course  of	 thestatement   of	the  case  by  the  appellants	 that	suchproceedings  could  only  be  taken  during  the  course  ofassessment proceedings and those proceedings are  concluded.In our opinion, the notice issued to the appellants to	showcause  why  penalty should not be imposed on  them  did	 notcease  to  be  operative, because  the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner  pointed out an illegality which  vitiated	 theproceeding  after  it was lawfully initiated.	That  noticehaving remained still to be disposed of, the proceedings nowstarted	 can  be  described  as during	the  course  of	 theassessment proceedings, because the action will relate	backto the time when the first notice was issued.In  our opinion, the Income-tax Officer is well	 within	 hisjurisdiction  to continue the proceedings from the stage  atwhich  the  illegality	has  occurred  and  to	assess	 theappellants to a penalty, if any, which the circumstances  ofthe case may require.The appeal is accordingly dismissed with costs.					   Appeal dismissed.(1)  [1957] 32 I.T. R. 648.75