PETITIONER:BRITISH INDIA GENERAL INSURANCE CO., LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:CAPTAIN ITBAR SINGH AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:11/05/1959BENCH:ACT:Motor  Car  lnsurance--Suit  for  damages  by  third  Party-Insurance  company added defendants- Defence  if other	thanstatutory  available-Interpretation of--Motor Vehicles	Act,1939 (4 of 1939), SS. 95, 96,HEADNOTE:A  suit	 claiming damages, for negligent driving  was  filedaginst	the  owner of a motor car, who was  insured  againstthird  party risks.  The insurer, was subsequently added  asdefendant  to the suit under s. 96(2) of the Motor  VehiclesAct, 1939. it contended that the defence available to it wasnot restricted to the grounds enumerated in s. 96(2) Of	 theAct, but that it was entitled to take all defences includingthose on which the assured himself could have relied for hisdefence,  subject only to the restriction that it could	 notin view of S. 96(3) Of the Act rely on the conditions of thepolicy as a defence.Held,  that an insurer made a defendant to the action  underS.  96(2)  of  the Act was not entitled to defend  it  on  aground not specified in that section.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos.  413,	 and414 of 1958.Appeals	 from the order dated April 27, 1955, of the  PunjabHigh Court in Civil Revisions Nos. 81-D of 1953 and 96-D  of1953 respectively.1959 April 21, 22, 23, 24.-C. K. Daphtary  Solicitor Generalfor  India, Ram Behari Lal, D. K. Kapur and Sardar  Bahadur,for  the  appellants.  The question in the  present  appealsturn  around  S. 96 of the Motor Vehicles  Act,	 1939.	 Thepurpose	 of  sub-s. (2) of S. 96 is to state  those  groundsbased  on the policy of insurance on which the	insurer	 mayrely  for  his	defence.   Sub-section	(3)  makes   certainconditions  of	the policy of no effect as against  the	 3rdparty.	Both Sub-ss. (2) and (3) are concerned only with theconditions of the policy.  They should not be interpreted soas to oust other defences the insurer may wish to take	e.g.that  there  was  no  accident or  that	 the  plaintiff	 wasnegligent  or  that there was contributory  negligence	etc.When a person is joined as a party he has the right to	takeall defences permissible in law.[Subba Rao, J.-Did the insurer have a right to be joined  asa  party, apart from the statute ? Could he be joined  underOrder 1, Rule 10, of the Code of Civil Procedure ?]169I  am not basing my case on Order 1, Rule to of the Code  ofCivil Procedure.  Apart from the statute, the insurer  wouldnot be liable to the third party, but only to the assured.[Das,  J.-Is  it  not correct that  the	 statute  gives	 theinsurer	 a  right to be joined as a party which he  did	 nothave previously ? If so, the right cannot be extended beyondwhat the statute gives.]It is true that the statute gives a right to the insurer  tobecome a party to the action by the injured person which  hedid  not have previously, but the real question	 before	 thecourt  is whether sub-s. (2) limits the right to  defend  onthe  grounds stated in that sub-section.  In my	 submission,subS. (2) exhausts only the defences based on the conditionsof the policy which the insurer may wish to take.  If it wasintended that these were to be the only defences open to theinsurer	 the word " only " should have been used instead  ofthe  words  "  any of " before the  words  "  the  followinggrounds."  What the legislature meant was that	the  insurercould  defend the action " also " on the grounds  stated  insub-s. (2) in addition to other grounds.  If the court findsthe  section  is clear no words can be	added.	 However,  Isubmit	the section is ambiguous.  It can mean	either	thatthe insurer can take other defences or that he is limited tothe  matters  stated  in  sub-s.  (2).	 The  Court   shouldinterpret  the: section to give effect to the  interests  ofjustice.   The	insurer	 is  made  liable  to  satisfy	 thejudgmental  It would be an extreme hardship if he  were	 notallowed	 to  defend the action on merits.   Apart  from	 thesituations  coming  within sub-s. (2) the insurer  would  becondemned unheard.  The legislature could not have  intendedsuch a result.	Even the cases which hold that the  defencesof  the	 insurer are limited to those stated  in  subS.	 (2)recognise that this causes hardship.  I.L.R. 1953 Bom.	109,I.L.R. 955 Bom. 39 and I.L.R. 1955 Bom. 278.  In those casesthe  hardship  was  sought to be overcome  by  allowing	 theinsurer to defending the name of the insured.  I do not	 saythat  this  latter procedure is correct, but it	 shows	thatthere is hardship.[Sarkar, J.-How can that be done ? How can the -,insurer  beallowed	 to defend in the name of the insured?	How  is	 therecord to be kept ? There is no provision under which it canbe  done,  not	even under s. 1 5 1 of	the  Code  of  CivilProcedure.]Probably  not.	But that question does not arise for  deter-mination  in  this appeal.  The hardship recognised  by	 theBombay cases can be avoided if the interpretation of sub-S.   (2) suggested by me is accepted.22170[Das, J.-How is that interpretation possible in the face ofsub-s. (6) ?]Sub-sectioii  (6) only prohibits the insurer  from  avoidingliability in a manner other than that stated in sub-s.	(2).The  manner  of avoiding liability stated in sub-s.  (2)  isthat  the  insurer  should  apply,  to	be  made  a   party.Consequently, the insurer can avoid liability, only by beingjoined	as a party.  The word ' manner ' in the	 context  ofsub-s.	(6)  refers only to the procedure  the	insurer	 mayfollow,	 not  to the grounds the insurer may wish  to  take.Hence  the insurer can avoid liability only by being  joinedas a party, but can take any defences, he chooses  includingthose  stated  in sub-s.Otherwise the third  party  and	 theassured	 may collude and a judgment may be passed which	 theinsurer	 would	be bound to satisfy without having  had	 'anopportunity  of	 defending himself.  Or the case may  go  bydefault against the assured or may be compromised.  The realparty  affected is the insurer and yet he is given no  rightto  be heard except on the limited grounds stated in  sub-s.(2).  The assured is only a nominal party and is not  likelyto  be interested in contesting the case, as the decree	 hasto  be satisfied by the insurer.  The legislature could	 nothave  intended	such a result.	It is  contrary	 to  naturaljustice	  that	a  party  likely  to  be  affected  by	 theproceedings should not be heard on the merits.T.   P.	 S. Chawla (with him, Dipak Datta Choudhry) for	 therespondent.   Chapter VIII of the Motor Vehicles Act,  1939,is  based on various English Statutes (See Report  of  MotorVehicles  Insurance Committee 1936-37 known as the  RoughtonCommittee).   For  a  proper appreciation of  s.  96  it  isnecessary to consider the historical development of the	 lawrelating to compulsory third party insurance in England.Before 1930, there, was no system of compulsory insurance inrespect of third party risks in England.  In the event of anaccident  the  injured third party had a right	to  sue	 themotorist and recover damages.  But if the motorist was a manof straw, the injured party was in practice unable to obtaincompensation.	This  was  the situation  the  various	RoadTraffic Acts were designed to avoid.Even  in those cases in which the motorist had taken out  aninsurance  policy,  difficulties  arose in the	way  of	 theinjured	 third party recovering compensation.	The  injuredthird  party  had  no direct right  of	action	against	 theinsurer.  In the event of the insolvency of the assured, theinjured third party would rank a,; an ordinary creditor	 andwould not receive complete satisfaction for his decree.	 TheThird Parties Rights			    171Against	 Insurers Act, 1930, created a system  of  statutorysubrogation in such cases. (Halsbury, 3rd Edn., Vol. 22, PP.339,  372).   The  provisions of this  Act  have  been	sub-stantially  reproduced in s. 97 of the Motor  Vehicles	Act.As a result the third party can sue the insurer directly  incases.Next  the  Road Traffic Act, 1930, introduced  a  scheme  ofcompulsory insurance.  Section 35(1) made third party insur-ance Compulsory.  Section 94(1) of the Motor Vehicles Act isworded in the Same Way.	 Similarly s. 36 Of the English	 Actis substantially reproduced in s. 9.5 of the Motor  VehiclesAct.  Section 38 of the Act of 1930 made certain  conditionsof  the	 policy	 ineffective so far as	third  parties	wereconcerned.   The  object was that claims  of  injured  thirdparties should not fail because the assured had not compliedwith  or  committed a breach of certain	 conditions  in	 thepolicy.	 (Shawcross on Motor Insurance, 2nd Edn.,  pp.	219,277).But the Act of 1930 did not go far enough.  In 1934 anotherRoad  Traffic  Act  was passed the object of  which  was  tocompel	Insurers to satisfy judgments obtained	against	 theinsured	 (Shawcross  ibid P. 271).   This  Act	contemplatedthree  separate	 actions between the various  parties.	 Thefirst  action  was by the injured third	 party	against	 theassured.   By s. 10(1) of that Act, which is  reproduced  ins.  96(1),  the insurer was obliged to	satisfy	 the  decreeagainst	 the, assured.	If the insurer failed to do so,	 thethird party had a right of action against the insurer, basedon the judgment Obtained against the assured. (Shawcross, p.296 ; Halsburry 3rd Edn., Vol. 22,PP. 374-5).  This was	 thesecond	action.	  It  is doubtful if  even  the	 defence  ofcollusion would be open to the insurer in the second action.(Sliawcross, P. 296).  Then S. 10(2) of the Road Traffic Actof 1934, is substantially reproduced in s. 96(2)(a).   Bythis  provision	 in certain events  the	 insurers  liabilityceases.	  To appreciate s. 96(2)(b) it is necessary to	keepin  mind s. 38 of the Road Traffic Act of 193o and S. 12  ofthe  Road Traffic Act of 1934.	Both these  letter  sectionsmade  certain conditions of the policy	ineffective  againstthird  parties.	 Whilst drafting the Motor Vehicles Act	 thelegislature  reversed  the  manner  of	statement.   In	  s.96(2)(b)  the legislature has stated affirmatively what	 arethe  conditions on which the insurer can rely as  against  athird party.  This was done to avoid doubt and uncertainly.Then  s.  10(3)	 of the Road Traffic  Act,  1934,  gave	 theinsurer	 a  right to obtain a declaration that	he  was	 notliable	 on   the   policy   due   to	non-disclosure	  ormisrepresentation as to172a material fact.  In this action a notice had to be sent  tothe  third party injured who was given a right to join as  aparty  and  oppose the action.	This was the  third  action.The same result is achieved by s. 96(2)(C).  What s. 96 doesis to roll up into one these three actions which occurred inEnglish	 Law.	This saves time and money  and	enables	 thethree  parties involved to have their respective rights	 andliabilities settled in one action.  But s. 96 does not	giveany  party greater rights than it would have had in  EnglishLaw.  At common law the insurer had no right to intervene inthe  action  by the injured party against  the	insured	 andoppose the claim on merits, e.g., that there was no accidentor negligence or that there was contributory negligence etc.The  insurer could avoid liability only by showing  that  hewas  not liable for some reason connected with the  -policy.This  is the right which sub-s. (2) preserves.	It does	 notgive  additional  rights to the insurer over what  he  wouldhave  had  at common law or in accordance with	the  EnglishStatutes.  On the interpretation suggested by the Solicitor-General	 the insurer would get a right he never had  before.This  is contrary to the object of Chapter VIII which is  toprotect	 the injured third party and not the  insurer.	 Theinsurer	 is  neither a necessary nor a proper  party.  underOrder 1, Rule 10, Code of Civil Procedure, in the action  bythe injured third party against the assured.[Subba Rao, J.-You need not deal with Order 1, Rule 10, Codeof Civil Procedure, as the Solicitor-General has not  reliedon it.]There is no ambiguity in s. 96(2).  The sub-section  clearlyspecifies  the	defences open to the insurer and it  is	 notpermissible  to add to those defences.	This is	 put  beyonddoubt by sub-s. (6).  It prevents the insurer from  avoidingliability  in a ` manner' other than that stated  in  sub-s.(2). The 'manner' provided by sub-s. (2) is by joining as  aparty  and  defending on the grounds stated There'  fore,  'manner'	 refers to both the procedure and the  grounds.	  Tohold  otherwise is to make sub-s. (2) unnecessary.   If	 theLegislature  intended  that the insurer should	be  able  todefend on grounds other than those stated in sub-s. (2)	 allit  needed to say was that the insurer would be entitled  tojoin  as a party.  As sub-s. (2) specifies the defenses	 theintention  was	clearly	 to  limit  the	 insurer  to   thosedefences.[Subba	Rao,  J.-Suppose  the injured third  party  and	 theinsured	 collude  or judgment is allowed to go	by  default,could not the insurer have the judgment set aside or bring asuit to,have it set aside ?]173In. my submission even a suit for this purpose is barred  asthat would contravene sub-s. (6).  Such a suit would  enablethe  insurer to avoid liability in a.' manner' which  sub-s.(6) does not allow.There  is  no hardship caused by giving full effect  to	 thesection	 as it stands.	The possibilities of  collusion	 areremote,	 and indeed illusory. (Shawcross, P. 296).   By-  s.96(3)  the  insurer  is given a right to  recover  from	 theinsured any sums paid, by him which he was not bound to	 paydue  to	 breaches  of conditions in the	 policy,  but  whichconditions  have been made ineffective as against the  thirdparty.	 Sub-section  (4)  of the  same	 section  gives	 theinsurer	 the  right to recover from the assured	 the  excesswhich  he  is  made  to pay by virtue of  s.  95,  over	 hisobligations  in the policy.  The judgment is  still  againstthe  assured who is the party primarily liable.	 It is	onlymade executable against the insurer.  Apart from this, by s.1(3)  of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, the legislature	gaveinsurers  six years to insert provisions in  their  policiesand take such other steps to protect themselves against	 theassured	 committing  them  to  liability  as  they   thoughtfit.Most  insurers insert the control of proceedings  clausein the policy (Halsbury, 3rd Edn., VOl. 22 p. 338).  Someonehad  to	 bear the loss ultimately, and the  legislature	 hastried  so far as possible to ensure that the loss  falls  onthe  person  causing the accident.  But, if the	 insured  isimpecunious the choice is between allowing the loss to	fallon  the injured party or the insurer.  The  legislature,  inits  wisdom has provided that in such a situation  the	lossshall  fall on the insurer.  It is a part of  the  insurer'sbusiness  to  suffer  such  losses  and	 when  entering	 thecontract  of  insurance	 he contemplates that  he  might  becalled upon to pay the loss.Now,  the Bombay cases referred to by the Solicitor  Generalare right in so far as they hold that the insurer can defendonly  on the grounds stated in sub-s. (2).  Those cases	 arewrong in proceeding on the assumption that there is hardshipcaused	to  the insurer by this view.  They are based  on  amisunderstanding  of  the  cases of  Windsor  v.  Chalcraft,[1939]	1 K.B. 279 and Jacques v. Harrison, 12	Q.B.D.	136,and  on	 appeal, 12 Q.B.D. 165.	 It was not noticed  in	 theBombay cases that the provisions of Indian Law equivalent toS.  24(5)  of  the judicature Act and  Order  27,  Rule	 15,R.S.C.,	 were not as wide as the English provisions.   Order9,  Rule  7,  Code of Civil Procedure,	allows	an  ex-partedecree to be set aside only at the instance of the defendantwhilst	there is no such limitation in 0. 27, R. 15,  R.S.C.There, is174no  procedure  known  to law by which  the  insurer  can  beallowed	 to defend in the name of the insured.	This  cannotbe done under s. 151, C.P.C. as it would contravene s. 96(6)and allow the insurer to avoid liability in a 'manner' otherthan  the  one allowed.	 The Bombay cases have	not  noticedsub-s.	(6) at all.  The procedure stated in those cases  isuntenable.[Sarkar, J. -Are we called upon to decide that point in thiscase  ? Apparently there is a revision petition	 pending  inthe  High  Court  between the same  parties  in	 which	thatquestion awaits determination.	Should we express an opinionon that point ?]The  Solicitor-General	has  adopted  it  as  apart  of	 hisreasoning He has said that if the insurer can take all thedefences in the name of the insured, that is an additionalreason why sub-s. (2) should not be interpreted as to limit thedefences available to the insurer. I wants show that view iswrong. (The Court disallowed this branch of the argument).In  the case reported as Windsor v. Chalcraft [1939] 1	K.B.279,  the dissenting judgment of Slesser, L.J.,	 states	 thecorrect position.  The judgment of Greer, L.J., show-,	thatlie was in considerable doubt as to the correct position  inlaw,  but  felt	 himself  bound	 by  the  earlier  judgmentsreported  in jacques v. Harrison, 12 O.B.D. 165.   Mckinnon,L.J.,  proceeded on the footing that the assured was only  anominal	 defendant.   As  already  submitted  this  is	 notcorrect.   Even	 in English Law the  insurer  could  recoveragainst the assured. (Halsbury, 3rd Edn,, Vol. 22, PP.	374,379, 385).  The case of Windsor V. Chalcraft was decided  inMay  1038.  The Motor Vehicles Act was passed  in  February,1939.	It  is	legitimate to assume that  the	persons	 whodrafted the Act were aware of this case.  I submit that	 thereal purpose of sub-s. (6) was to give effect to the view ofSlesser, L.J.[Das, J.-That is rather far fetched.]I  submit it is not.  Even in England the, view of  Slesser,T..J.,	seems  to have been  approved.	 Subsequent  Englishcases  show that the principle of Windsor v.  Chalcraft,  isnot  to be extended.  See Murfin v. Ashbridge [1941]  1	 AllE.R.231.  It  was not necessary to expressly over  rule	 thecase  of Windsor v. Chalcraft as in 1946 the Motor  InsurersBureau	was  set  tip in England, as a result  of  which  aninsurer	 is bound to satisfy a judgment obtained by a  thirdparty  against	a,  motorist even if the  motorist  was	 notinsured	 (Halsbury,  3rd Edn., Vol. 22, PP.  382  et.  seq.,Shawcross,  ibid, Introduction LXXXVII et. seq.) This  showshow strong175the  attempt to protect the third party has been.   Actuallythe  words  of s. 96(2) and (6) are clear to show  that	 theinsurer	 can take only the defences mentioned in sub-s.	 (2)But if there be any doubt, a consideration of the historicaldevelopment  of the law and the objects to be attained	putsit beyond doubt that the legislature intended this result.C.   K. Daphtari, in reply.  It is wrong that at common	 lawthe  insurer could not be brought in as a party.  At  commonlaw  the  guarantor or indemnifier could be  brought  in  bymeans of third party procedure (see	I.L.R.	35 All.	 168and  Halsbury, 3rd Edn., Vol. 18, P. 535 and Gray v.  Lewis,L.R. (1873) 8 Ch. 1035, 1058).Apart from the common law, the insurer could also be  joinedas a party under 0. I, R. 10, Code of Civil Procedure.I  rely	 on  the case of United Provinces  v.  Atiqa  Begum,[1941] A.C. 16.	 A person should be joined as a party if hispresence   is  necessary  for  an  effectual  and   completeadjudication.	On  this principle the insurer ought  to  bejoined as a party, and thus can take all defences.Chaula,	 in  reply  : The passage  cited  by  the  SolicitorGeneral	 from  Halsbury,  3rd  Edn., Vol.  18,	P.  535,  isactually  against  him.	  The foot note (e)  shows  that  atcommon law the insurer could not be joined as a party to theaction by the insured.	Third party procedure did not  existat Common Law.	Even under third party procedure in  Englandit  is doubtful whether this could be done  (Shawcross,	 pp.150-151).  In any case there is no third party procedure  inPunjab.	  The  cases 35 All. 168 and (1873) L.R. 8  ch.	  A.1035 are also against him.The  insurer  is neither a necessary nor a proper  party  asthere  can be a complete and effectual adjudication  withouthis  presence.	The decree is to be a against  the  assured,not against the insurer.				   Cur. adv. vult.1959.  May 11.	The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySARKAR J.-These two appeals arise out of two suits and	havebeen  heard  together.	 The suits had	been  filed  againstowners of motor cars for recovery of damages suffered by theplaintiffs as a result of the negligent driving of the cars.The  owners  of the cars were insured  against	third  partyrisks and the insurers were subsequently added as defendantsto the suits176under  the  provisions of sub-s. (2) of s. 96 of  the  MotorVehicles Act, 1939.  The terms of that subsection  will haveto  be	set  out later, but it may now	be  stated  that  itprovided that an insurer added as a party to an action underit was entitled to defend on the grounds enumerated in it.On  being  added as defendants, the insurers  filed  writtenstatements  taking  defences other than those  mentioned  inthat sub-section.  The plaintiffs contended that the writtenstatements  should be taken off the records as the  insurerscould defend the action only on the grounds mentioned in thesub-section and on no others.  A question thereupon arose inthe  suits  as	to  what  defences  were  available  to	 theinsurers.  In one of the suits it was held that the  insurercould  take only the defences specified in that	 sub-sectionand  in the other suit the view taken was that the  insurerswere not confined to those defences.  Appeals were perferredfrom these decisions to the High Court of Punjab.  The	HighCourt  held that the insurers could defend the actions	onlyon the grounds mentioned in the subsection and on no others.Hence these appeals by the insurers.The question is whether the defences available to an insureradded  as  a party under s. 96(2) are only  those  mentionedthere.	 A few of the provisions of the Motor  Vehicles	 Acthave  now  to be referred to.  Section 94 of the  Act  makesinsurance  against third party risk compulsory.	 Section  95deals  with  the  requirements	of  the	 policies  of	suchinsurance  and	the limits of the liability  to	 be  coveredthereby.  Sub-section (1) of this section provides"............ a policy of insurance must be a policywhich-(a)....................................................(b) insures the person or classes of person specified in thepolicy to the extent specified in subsection (2) against anyliability which may be incurred by him or them in respect ofthe  death  or	bodily injury to any  person  caused  by  orarising out of the use of the vehicle in a public place."177Sub-section  (2)  of  s.  95 specifies	the  limits  of	 theliability for which insurance has to be effected, and it  isenough	to say that it provides that in respect	 of  privatecars,  which  the  vehicles 'with which	 these	appeals	 areconcerned  were,  the  insurance has to be  for	 the  entireamount	of the liability incurred.  Then comes s.  96  roundwhich  the arguments advanced in this case have	 turned	 andsome of its provisions have to be set out."  Section 96. (1) If, after a certificate of insurance	 hasbeen issued under sub-section (4) of section 95 in favour ofthe  person by whom a policy has been effected, judgment  inrespect	 of any such liability as is required to be  coveredby  a policy under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of  section95 (being a liability covered by the terms of the policy) isobtained  against  any person insured by the  policy,  then,notwithstanding that the insurer may be entitled to avoid orcancel	or  may have avoided or cancelled  the	policy,	 theinsurer	 shall, subject to the provisions of  this  section,pay to the person entitled to the benefit of the decree	 anysum  not exceeding the sum assured payable thereunder as  ifhe  were the judgment debtor, in respect of  the  liability,together with any amount payable in respect of costs and anysum payable in respect of interest on that sum by virtue  ofany enactment relating to interest on judgments.(2)  No sum shall be payable by an insurer under sub-section(1)  in respect of any judgment unless before or  after	 thecommencement  of  the proceedings in which the	judgment  isgiven  the  insurer  had notice through	 the  Court  of	 thebringing  of the proceedings, or in respect of any  judgmentso  long as execution is stayed thereon pending	 an  appeal;and  an insurer to whom notice of the bringing of  any	suchproceeding is so given shall be entitled to be made a  partythereto	 and  to defend the action on any of  the  followinggrounds, namely:-(a)  that  the policy was cancelled by mutual consent or  byvirtue	of  any	 provision  contained  therein	before	 theaccident giving rise to the liability, and 23178that either the certificate of insurance was surrendered  tothe  insurer or that the person to whom the certificate	 wasissued	has made an affidavit stating that  the	 certificatehas  been  lost or destroyed, or that either before  or	 notlater than fourteen days after the happening of the accidentthe  insurer has commenced proceedings for  cancellation  ofthe certificate after compliance with the provisions of sec-tion 105; or(b)  that  there has been a breach of a specified  conditionof  the	 policy,  being one  of	 the  following	 conditions,namely:-(i)  a condition excluding the use of the vehicle-(a)  for hire or reward, where the vehicle is on the date ofthe contract of insurance a vehicle not covered by a  permitto ply for hire on reward, or(b)  for organised racing and speed testing, or(c)  for a purpose not allowed by the permit under which     thevehicle is used, where the vehicle is a public	  servicevehicle or a goods vehicle, or(d)  without side-car being attached, where the vehicle in amotor cycle; or(ii) a	condition  excluding driving by a  named  person  orpersons or by any person who is not duly licensed, or by anyperson who has been disqualified for holding or obtaining  adriving licence during the period of disqualification; or(iii)	  a condition excluding liability for injury  causedor  contributed to by conditions of war, civil war, riot  orcivil commotion; or,(e)  that  the	policy	is void on the ground  that  it	 wasobtained  by the non-disclosure of a material fact or  by  arepresentation	of  fact which was false  in  some  materialparticular.(2A)......................................(3)  Where a certificate of insurance has been issued  undersub-section (4) of section 95 to the person by whom a policyhas  been  effected, so much of the policy  as	purports  torestrict the insurance of the179persons insured thereby by reference to any conditions otherthan  those  in	 clause (b) of	sub-section  (2)  shall,  asrespects such liabilities as are required to be covered by apolicy	under clause (b) of sub -section (1) of section	 95,be of no effect:Provided that any sum paid by the insurer in or towards	 thedischarge of any liability or any person which is covered bythe  policy  by	 virtue only of this  sub-section  shall  berecoverable by the insurer from that	person.(4)  If the amount which an insurer becomes liable under     thissection	 to  pay  in respect of a liability  incurred  by  aperson insured by a policy exceeds the amount for which	 theinsurer	 would apart from the provisions of this section  beliable	under the policy in respect of that  liability,	 theinsurer	 shall be entitled to recover the excess  from	thatperson.(5).......................................................(6) No insurer to whom the notice referred to in sub-section(2) has been given shall be entitled to avoid his  liabilityto  any person entitled to the benefit of any such  judgmentas  is referred to in subsection (1) otherwise than  in	 themanner provided for in sub-section (2)."It  may	 be stated that the policies that were	effected  inthese cases were in terms of the Act and the certificate  ofinsurance mentioned in s. 96 had been duly issued.  It	willhave been noticed that sub-s. (1) of s. 96 makes an  insurerliable	on  the	 judgment obtained  by	the  injured  personagainst	 the assured.  Sub-section (2) provides that no	 sumshall  be payable by the insurer under sub-s. (1) unless  hehas  been given notice of the proceedings resulting in	thatjudgment,  and	that an insurer who has been  given  such  anotice	shall be entitled to be made a party to	 the  actionand to defend it on the grounds enumerated.  The  contentionof the appellants is that when an insurer becomes a party toan  action under sub-s. (2), he is entitled to defend it  onall grounds available at law including the grounds on  whichthe assured himself could have relied for his180defence and that the only restriction on the insurer's rightof  defence is that he cannot rely on the conditions of	 thepolicy which sub-s. (3) makes as of no effect.	This is	 thecontention which we have to examine inthese appeals.To  start with it is necessary to remember that	 apart	fromthe  statute an insurer has no right to be made a  party  tothe action by the injured person against the insured causingthe injury.  Sub-section (2) of S. 96 however gives him	 theright to be made a party to the suit and to defend it.	 Theright  therefore  is  created by  statute  and	its  contentnecessarily  depends on the provisions of the statute.	 Thequestion  then really is, what are the defences that  sub-S.(2)  makes  available  to an insurer ?	That  clearly  is  aquestion of interpretation of the sub-section.Now  the language of sub-s. (2) seems to us to be  perfectlyplain and to admit of no doubt or confusion.  It is that  aninsurer to whom the requisite notice of the action has	beengiven " shall be entitled to be made a party thereto and  todefend the action on any of the following grounds,  namely,"after  which comes an enumeration of the grounds.  It  wouldfollow	that an insurer is entitled to defend on any of	 thegrounds	 enumerated and no others.  If it were not so,	thenof  course no grounds need have been enumerated.   When	 thegrounds of defence have been specified, they cannot be addedto.  To do that would be adding words to the statute.Sub-section(6)	also indicates clearly how sub-s.  (2)shouldbe read.  It says that no insurer to whom the notice of	 theaction	has  been  given  shall be  entitled  to  avoid	 hisliability  under sub-s. (1) " otherwise than in	 the  mannerprovided  for in sub-section. (2)".  Now the only manner  ofavoiding   liability  provided	for  in	 subs.	(2)  is	  bysuccessfully raising any of the defences therein  mentioned.It  comes  then to this that the insurer  cannot  avoid	 hisliability except by establishing ,such defences.   Thereforesub-s.	(6)  clearly contemplates that he  cannot  take	 anydefence	 not mentioned in subS. (2).  If he could,  then  hewould  have been in a position to avoid his liability  in  amanner other than that181provided  for in sub-s. (2).  That is prohibited  by  sub-s.(6).We therefore think that sub-s. (2) clearly provides that  aninsurer	 made a defendant to the action is not	entitled  totake any defence which is not specified in it.Three  reported decisions were cited at the bar and  all  ofthem proceeded on the basis that an insurer had no right  todefend the action except on the grounds mentioned in  sub-s.(2).   These are Sarup Singh v. Nilkant Bhaskar	 (1),  RoyalInsurance Co. Ltd. v. Abdul Mahomed (2) and The	 Proprietor,Andhra Trading Co. v. K. Muthuswamy (3).  It does not appearhowever	 to  have been seriously contended in any  of  thesecases  that the insurer could defend the action on a  groundother than one of those mentioned in sub-s. (2).The  learned counsel for the respondents, the plaintiffs  inthe  action, referred us to the analogous  English  statute,The Road Traffic Act, 1934, in support of the view that	 theinsurer is restricted in his defence to the grounds set	 outin sub-s. (2).	But we do not think it necessary to refer tothe  English statute for guidance in the  interpretation  ofthe section that we have to construe.We  proceed  now to consider the arguments advanced  by	 thelearned	 Solicitor-General who appeared for the	 appellants.He  contended  that  there  was nothing	 in  sub-s.  (2)  torestrict  the defence of an insurer to the  grounds  thereinenumerated.  To support his contention, he first referred tosub-s.	(3)  of s. 96 and said-that it	indicated  that	 thedefences that were being dealt with in sub-s. (2) were	onlythose based on the conditions of the policy.  His point	 wasthat  sub-s.  (2)  permitted  defences	on  some  of   thoseconditions and sub-s. (3) made the rest of the conditions ofno  effect, thereby preventing a defence being based on	 anyof them.  He said that these two sub-sections read  togethershow  that  sub-s.  (2) was not intended to  deal  with	 anydefence	 other than those arising -out of the conditions  ofthe  policy, and as to other defences therefore	 sub-s.	 (2)contained no prohibition.  He further(1) I.L.R. [1953] Bom. 296.    (2) I.L.R. [1954] Bom. 1422.		 (3) A.I.R. 1956 Mad. 464.182said that as under sub-s. (2) an insurer was entitled to  bemade  a defendant to the action it followed that he had	 theright  to take all legal defences excepting those  expresslyprohibited.We  think that this contention is without foundation.	Sub-section	 (2)  in fact deals with defences other	 than  thosebased  on the conditions of a policy.  Thus cl. (a) of	thatsub-section  permits an insurer to defend an action  on	 theground that the policy has been duly cancelled provided	 theconditions  set	 out  in that clause  have  been  satisfied.Clause	(c) gives him the right to defend the action on	 theground	that the policy is void as having been	obtained  bynon-disclosure	of  a  material fact  or  a  material  falserepresentation of fact.	 Therefore it cannot be said that inenacting  sub-s.(2) the legislature was	 contemplating	onlythose  defences	 which were based on the conditions  of	 thepolicy.It  also  seems to us that even if sub-s.(2)  and  sub-s.(3)were  confined only to defences based on the  conditions  ofthe  policy that would not have led to the  conclusion	thatthe  legislature  thought that other defences not  based  onsuch  conditions, would be open to an insurer.	If that	 waswhat  the  legislature intended, then there was	 nothing  toprevent	  it  from  expressing	its  intention.	  What	 thelegislature  has  done	is to enumerate in  sub-s.  (2)	 thedefences  available to an insurer and to provide  by  sub-s.(6) that he cannot avoid his liability excepting by means ofsuch defences.	In order that sub-s. (2) may be	 interpretedin the way the learned Solicitor-General suggests we have toadd  words  to it.  The learned	 Solicitor-General  concedesthis and says that the only word that has to be added is theword  " also" after the word "grounds".	 But even  this	 therules  of interpretation do not permit us to do	 unless	 thesection as it stands is meaningless or of doubtful  meaning,neither	 of  which we think it is.  The	 addition  suggestedwill,  in  our	view, make the	language  used	unhappy	 andfurther effect a complete change in the meaning of the wordsused in the sub-section.As  to	sub-s. (6) the learned	Solicitor-General  contendedthat the proper reading of it was that an183insurer	 could	not avoid his liability except by way  of  adefence	 upon being made a party to the action under  sub-s.(2).   He contended that the word it manner " in sub-s.	 (6)did  not refer to the defences specified in sub.s.  (2)	 butonly  meant,  by way of defending the suit the right  to  dowhich is given by sub-s. (2).  We think that this is a	veryforced construction of sub-s. (6) and we are unable to adoptit.   The only manner of avoiding liability provided for  insub-s.	(2)  is	 through  the  defences	 therein  mentioned.Therefore when sub-s. (6) talks of avoiding liability in themanner	provided  in sub-s. (2), it  necessarily  refers  tothese defences.	 If the contention of the learned Solicitor-General	 was right, sub-s. (6) would have provided that	 theinsurer would not be entitled to avoid his liability  exceptby defending the action on being made a party thereto.There  is  another ground on which  the	 learned  Solicitor-General supported the contention that all defences are	opento an insurer excepting those taken away by sub-s. (3).	  Hesaid that before the Act came into force, an injured  personhad  no right of recourse to the insurer and that it was  s.96(1) that made the judgment obtained by the injured  personagainst	 the assured binding on the insurer and gave  him  aright  against the insurer.  He then said that being so,  itis  only  fair that a person sought to be made	bound  by  ajudgment should be entitled to resist his liability under itby  all	 defences which he can in law  advance	against	 thepassing of it.Again,	we  find the contention	 wholly	 unacceptable.	 TheStatute	 has no doubt created a liability in the insurer  tothe  injured  person  but the  statute	has  also  expresslyconfined  the  right  to avoid	that  liability	 to  certaingrounds	 specified in it.  It is not for us to add to  thosegrounds	 and  therefore	 to  the  statute  for	reasons	  ofhardship.  We are furthermore not convinced that the statutecauses	any  hardship.	First, the insurer  has	 the  right,provided  he  has reserved it by the policy, to	 defend	 theaction	in  the name of the assured and if he does  so,	 alldefences  open to the assured can then be urged by  him	 andthere is no184other defence that he claims to be entitled to urge.  He canthus avoid all hardship if any, by providing for a right  todefend the action in the name of the assured and this he hasfull  liberty to do.  Secondly, if he has been made  to	 paysomething  which on the contract of the policy he  was	not,bound  to  pay, he can under the proviso to sub-s.  (3)	 andunder  sub-s. (4) recover it from the assured.	It was	saidthat  the  assured might be a man of straw and	the  insurermight  not  be able to recover anything from him.   But	 theanswer	to  that is that it is the insurer's bad  luck.	  Insuch  circumstances the injured person also would  not	havebeen  able to recover the damages suffered by him  from	 theassured,  the person causing the injuries.  The loss had  tofall  on  some one and the statute has thought fit  that  itshall be borne by the insurer.	That also seems to us to  beequitable for the loss falls on the insurer in the course ofhis  carrying  on his business, a business out of  which  hemakes  profit, and he could so arrange his business that  inthe  net result he would never suffer a loss.  On the  otherhand,  if the loss fell on the injured person, it  would  bedue  to no fault of his; it would have been a loss  sufferedby him arising out of an incident in the happening of  whichhe had no hand at all.We  therefore feel that the plain words of sub-s.(2)  shouldprevail	 and that no ground exists to lead us to  adopt	 theextraordinary course of adding anything to it. We think thatthe High Court was right in the view that it took,In the result these appeals are dismissed with costs.			  Appeals dismissed.       185