PETITIONER:KESHAVLAL LALLUBHAI PATEL AND OTHERSAND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:LALBHAI TRIKUMLAL MILLS LTD.DATE OF JUDGMENT:21/03/1958BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.KAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1958 AIR  512		  1959 SCR  213ACT:       Contract-Extension  of  time  for  performance-Agreement	 of       Parties-Requirements    of   Proof-Agreement,   vague	and       uncertain  Binding nature-Indian Contract Act, 1872  (IX	 of       1872), SS. 29, 63.HEADNOTE:The  appellants entered into a contract with the  respondentmills  for the purchase of certain goods in which  the	timefor  delivery  was  fixed for the months  of  September	 andOctober,  1942.	 Before the expiry of the time	fixed  therewas a strike in the mills and the respondent wrote a  letterto  the appellants on August 15, 1942, that in view  of	 thestrike and the political situation, the delivery time of allthe pending contracts should be automatically understood  asextended for the period the working of the mills was stoppedand until the normal state of affairs recurred.	 Though	 thestrike	came  to  an end the  respondent  declined  to	givedelivery of the goods on the ground that the contracts	werevoid.	In  the suit filed by the appellants on	 January  9,1946, for damages for breach of the contract the  respondentpleaded that there was no agreement between the parties withregard	to the extension of time and so the suit was  barredby  limitation.	  The appellants' case	and  their  evidencewhich was consistent with the conduct of the parties at	 therelevant  time only showed definitely that they	 had  orallyagreed to the proposal made by the respondent for  extensionof  time for the period during which the mills would  remainclosed,	 and as regards the second condition referred to  inthe  respondent's letter dated August 15, 1942, "  till	 thenormal	state  of  affairs  recurs  (which  was	 vague	 anduncertain),  the  evidence did not show that  there  was  anacceptance  by	the appellants of the said  condition.	 Thequestion was whether there was an enforceable agreement	 forextension of time for performance of the contract within themeaning of the Indian Contract Act :Held,  (1) An extension of time for the performance  of	 thecontract  Under	 s. 63 of the Indian Contract  Act  must  bebased  upon an agreement between the parties, and  it  wouldnot  be open to the promise by his unilateral act to  extendthe  time  for	performance of his own accord  for  his	 ownbenefit.  Such an agreement need not necessarily be  reducedto writing and can be proved by oral evidence or by evidenceof conduct.(2)  The   respondent's	 proposal  for	extension  of	timecontained  in the letter dated August 15, 1942, was  subjectto  two conditions, and the fact that the  second  conditionwas vague and214uncertain does not necessarily show that it was intended  tobe  treated  as a meaningless surpluses.  As  there  was  noacceptance  by the appellants of the second condition  therewas  no	 valid or binding agreement for	 extension  of	timeunder s. 63 of the Indian Contract Act.Nicolene Ld. v. Simmonds, [1953] 1 Q. B. 543, distinguished.(3)  In any event as the conditions were so vague and uncer-tain  that it was not possible to ascertain  definitely	 theperiod	for  which  the	 time for  the	performance  of	 thecontract  was really intended to be extended, the  agreementfor  extension was void under S. 29 Of the  Indian  ContractAct.Scammel	 (G.) and Nephew, Ld. v. Oustom (H.  C. and  1.	 G.)Queston, [1941] A. C. 251, relied on.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 78 of 1954.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated April 17, 1950, ofthe Bombay High Court in Appeal No. 642 of 1949, arising outof the judgment and decree dated July 30, 1949, of the Courtof Civil Judge, Senior Division, Ahmedabad in Suit No. 10 of1946.Purshottam Tricumdas, M. H. Chhatarpati and S.	  S. Shukla,for the appellants.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India and I.N. Shroff, for the respondent.1958.  March 21.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR	J.-This	 is  an	 appeal	 by  the  plaintiffsagainst	 the  decree  passed by the  High  Court  of  Bombaydismissing  their  suit to recover from	 the  defendant	 Rs.1,52,334-8-9  as  damages for breach of	 contract  for	non-delivery of certain cotton goods.  The plaintiffs' claim hadbeen  decreed by the trial court but on appeal it  has	beendismissed.The  appellants are the partners of M/S. Navinchandra &	 Co.This partnership had placed an order with the respondent for251  bales of printed chints on or about July 4,  1942,	 andthe  said order had been accepted by the respondent  by	 itsletters	 dated	July 1 1 and July 20,  1942.   The  deliveryperiod	for  the  said goods was fixed	for  the  months  ofSeptember  and October, 1942.  Another order was  placed  bythe215appellants  with  the  respondent for 31  bales	 of  printedchints on July 24, 1942, and this order was accepted by	 therespondent  on July 25, 1942.  The delivery of	these  goodswas to be given in the month of October 1942.On August 9, 1942, the workers in the respondent mills	wenton  strike in sympathy with the Quit-India,  movement  whichhad then commenced.  In consequence, the respondent wrote tothe appellants' firm on August 15, 1942, and stated that, inview of the strike and the political situation, the deliverytime  of all the pending contracts should  be  automaticallyunderstood  as	extended for the period the working  of	 themills  was  stopped and until the normal  state	 of  affairsrecurred.   The strike came to an end and the mills  resumedworking	 on  November  22,  1942.   On	December  5,   1942,Jasubhai,  who was then in charge of the management  of	 themills  was  approached	by  the	 appellants,  Keshavlal	 andRatilal, for obtaining delivery of the goods.  He,  however,told them that the appellants' contracts were void and so nodelivery  could be claimed or given.  On December  6,  1942,the  said  Jasubhai wrote to the appellants  informing	themthat  their contracts were not binding on the mills as	theywere null and void.  It may be mentioned at this stage that,when the contracts were made between the appellants and	 therespondent, Chinubhai Lalbhai was in charge of the  managingagency	of the mills.  Subsequently, on September 18,  1942,as  a  result of the compromise between	 Chinubhai  and	 hisbrothers Jasubhai and Babubhai, this managing agency of	 themills fell to the share of Jasubhai and Babubhai.On December 17, 1942, the appellants wrote to the respondentthat, as the respondent had extended the time of delivery ofall  goods  by	its  letter  dated  August  15,	 1942,	 therespondent  was	 bound to deliver the contracted  goods	 andthat  if the respondent did not do so, the appellants  wouldbe   compelled	to  take  legal	 proceedings   against	 therespondent.   In reply, the respondent repeated its  earliercontentions  by	 its letter dated December  20,	 1942.	 Theappellants  then formally demanded the delivery of goods  inJanuary216and  again in February 1943, and, since the demand  was	 notcomplied  with,	 the appellants filed the  present  suit  onJanuary	 9,  1946,  claiming damages to the  extent  of	 Rs.1,52,334-8-9 with interest and costs.In  the plaint, it was alleged that the suit was in time  becausethe request made by the respondent for extension of time had beenaccepted  by  the  appellants.	'The suit  was	resisted  by  therespondent  on	several grounds.  In particular,  the  respondenturged that there was no agreement between the parties with regardto  the	 extension  of	time  and  so  the  suit  was  barred  bylimitation.   The learned trial judge framed several issues  withtwo  of which the present appeal is concerned.	These two  issuesrelated to the question of extension of time for the  performanceof  the	 contract  and the plea of  limitation.	  On  both  thesepoints, the learned judge found in favour of the appellants.   Inthe  result  the appellants' claim was decreed.	  The  respondentthen  preferred	 an appeal in the High Court at	 Bombay	 and  hisappeal	was allowed.  The learned Judges of the High  Court  haveheld  that  the oral evidence led by the appellants to	show  theacceptance of the respondent's proposal for the extension of timecould not be treated as true or reliable.  They also rejected theappellants' case on the ground that the conduct of the appellantssubsequent to the stoppage of the respondent's mills did not showacceptance  of the respondent's proposal for extension	of  time.Besides, in the opinion of the High Court, even if acceptance hadbeen  proved,  it  was not possible to	ascribe	 any  certain  ordefinite  meaning  to  the words used by the  respondent  in  itsletter dated August 15, 1942 (Ex.  P. 78), and so this	agreementto  extend time was void since it wag vague and uncertain.   Thatis why it was held that the appellants' suit was barred by  time.It  is	these  findings which are challenged  before  us  by  theappellants  in the present appeal.  It is obvious that the  valueof the claim in the trial court as well as before us is more thanRs.  20,000 and the judgment of the High Court under  appeal  hasreversed  the  decree  passed by the learned  trial  judge.   Theappellants are thus entitled to agitate217both questions of fact and of law before us in this appeal.The  first  point  which has been urged	 before	 us  by	 theappellants  is	in respect of the finding made by  the	HighCourt  against	the  appellants	 on  the  question  of	 theextension of time for the performance of the contract.	 Theargument  is that the learned Judges of the High Court	werein  error  in  rejecting  the  oral'  evidence	led  by	 theappellants.   It would, therefore, be necessary to  considerthe  material evidence bearing on this point.  The  proposalto extend time was made by the respondent by its letter (Ex.P.  78)	 on August 15, 1942.  Ratilal P. W. I  stated  that,four or five days after this letter was received, he went toAhmedabad where he met and consulted Keshavlal.	 Then he sawChinubhai  at  the mills and told him that he  accepted	 theextension  of  time  as	 per the  said	letter.	  In  cross-examination,  Ratilal  added that he met  Chinubhai  at	 theoffice	in  his mills.	I He also stated that,	besides	 thesubject of extension of time, no other matter was  discussedbetween	 them  at  the said meeting.  He  admitted  that  noletter	had been written by the appellants confirming  theiracceptance of the respondent's proposal to extend time.	 Theevidence  given by Ratilal is corroborated by the  testimonyof  Keshavlal.	 It appears on the evidence  of	 both  thesewitnesses  that, after the mills reopened, they had gone  toJasubhai and demanded delivery of the bales according to thecontracts.   The appellants argued that there is  really  noreason	why  the evidence of these two witnesses  should  bedisbelieved.  It is significant that the main plea raised bythe respondent against the appellants' claim in the  presentsuit was that the contract itself was invalid and not  bind-ing on it and that the letter written by Laxmidas on  August15, 1942, was likewise unauthoirised and not binding on	 it.These pleas have been negatived in the courts below.  It  isfairly	clear from the record that the attitude	 adopted  bythe  respondent in the present dispute was actuated more  byJasubhai's prejudice against Chinubhai and it may be safely28218asserted that some of the pleas taken by the respondent wereknown  to the respondent to be untenable.   The	 appellant,%rely  upon this conduct of the respondent and  suggest	thatthe  oral testimony of Ratilal and  Keshavlal is  consistentwith  probabilities and should be believed.  Chinubhai	alsogave  evidence in the case.  He stated that the proposal  toextend	time  had  'been  conveyed  by	Laxmidas  under	 hisinstructions.  It is common ground that similar request	 wasmade to all the constituents of the mills both in  Ahmedabadand  outside Ahmedabad.	 Chinubhai did not remember  whetherhe  had	 got any written reply to the letter of	 August	 15,1942,  from  the appellants but the effect of  some  of	 thestatements made by him would generally appear to be that liehad  received oral acceptance of the said proposal from	 theappellants.  However, in answer to further questions put  tohim  in cross-examination, Chinubhai stated that he did	 notremember whether  the appellants accepted the offer or	not.It is, however, clear that the evidence of Chinubhai is	 notat all inconsistent with the statements made by Ratilal	 andKeshavlal.  It is common ground that the prices of the goodswere  rising at the material time and so it is	more  likelythat the appellants were willing to extend time because theywould  naturally be keen on obtaining delivery of the  goodsunder  the contract.  In both the courts below	an  argumentappears	 to have been urged by reference to the sauda  bookskept by the respondent.	 Shri Dharamasi Harilal had  broughtthe sauda books in the court but neither party got the booksexhibited  in  the case.  The learned trial judge  took	 theview  that,  since  the sauda books were  not  produced	 andproved	by the respondent, it led to the inference that,  ifthe  books  had	 been produced, they  would  have  shown  anendorsement  made  against  the	 suit  contracts  that	 theextension  of time had been agreed upon by  the	 appellants.On the other hand, the learned Judges of the High Court wereinclined  to draw the inference that, since  the  appellantsdid not want the said sauda books to be exhibited, it  wouldappear	that the said books did not contain any	 note  aboutthe extension.	In our opinion, it would be     219unsafe to draw either of these two inferences in the presentcase.  Therefore, the decision of the question would  dependupon  the  appreciation of oral evidence considered  in	 thelight  of probabilities and other relevant circumstances  inthe  case.  On the whole, we are disposed to take  the	viewthat the evidence given by Ratilal and Keshavlal is true.Besides, the conduct of the parties also points to the' sameconclusion.  If the period for the delivery of the goods hadnot been extended by mutual consent, we would normally	haveexpected the appellants to make a demand for delivery of thegoods  on due dates as fixed under the	original  contracts.It  is conceded that no such demand was made.  On the  otherhand,  it is only after the mills reopened that Ratilal	 andKeshavlal  saw Jasubhai and discussed with him the  questionabout  the delivery of the goods.  This is admitted  by	 therespondent  in its letter dated December 6, 1942,  (Ex.	  P.62).   The appellants were, however, told by the  respondentthat  the  saudas  of their firm were  not  binding  on	 therespondent  and	 that the same were void.   It	is  somewhatremarkable  that though this document disputes the  validityof  the sauda, even alternatively it does not  suggest	thatthe  period  of	 extension had not been	 agreed	 to  by	 theappellants.   It may be that, since Jasubhai then wanted  tochallenge  the validity of the contracts themselves, he	 didnot care to make any alternative plea.	But however that maybe,  the  conduct  of the appellants  is,  in  our  opinion,consistent  with  their	 case that they had  agreed  to	 theextension of time.The  true legal position in regard to the extension of	timefor the performance of a contract is quite clear under s. 63of  the Indian Contract Act.  Every promise, as the  sectionprovides,  may	extend	time  for  the	performance  of	 thecontract.   The question as to how extension of time may  beagreed	upon by the parties has been the  subject-matter  ofsome  argument at the Bar in the present appeal.  There	 canbe  no doubt, we think, that both the buyer and	 the  sellermust  agree  to extend time for the delivery of	 goods.	  Itwould  not be open to the promise by his unilateral  act  toextend220the  time  for	performance of his own accord  for  his	 ownbenefit.  It is true that the agreement to extend time	neednot necessarily be reduced to writing.	It may be proved  byoral  evidence.	 In some cases it may be proved by  evidenceof conduct.  Forbearance on, the part of the buyer to make ademand for the delivery of goods on the due date as fixed inthe  original  contract may conceivably be relevant  on	 thequestion  of  the  intention of the'  buyer  to	 accept	 theseller's proposal to extend time.  It would be difficult  tolay  down any hard and fast rule about the  requirements  ofproof  of  such	 an  agreement.	 It  would  naturally  be  aquestion of fact in each case to be determined in the  lightof  evidence adduced by the parties.  Having regard  to	 theprobabilities  in  this	 case, and to  the  conduct  of	 theparties	 at the relevant time, we think the  appellants	 areentitled  to  urge  that  their	 oral  evidence	 about	 theacceptance of the respondent's proposal for the extension oftime should be believed and the finding of the learned trialjudge on this question should be confirmed.The  finding  in favour of the appellants on this  point  isnot, however, decisive of the dispute between the parties inthe  present  appeal.	It still remains  to  be  consideredwhether	  the  agreement  between  the	parties	 about	 theextension of time suffers from the infirmity of	 uncertaintyand  vagueness.	 The learned Judges of the High	 Court	havecome  to the conclusion that the letter of August 15,  1942,which  is  the basis of the agreement for the  extension  oftime  is  so vague and uncertain that the  agreement  as  toextension  of  time itself becomes void	 and  unenforceable.The  correctness of this conclusion must now be	 considered.The  basis of the agreement is the letter and so it  is	 theconstruction  of  this	letter	which  assumes	considerableimportance.  This is how the letter reads:Dear Sirs,Your  good  selves are well aware of the  present  politicalsituation on account of which entire working of our Mills isclosed.At present, it is difficult to say as to how long this stateof affairs will continue and as such we regret221we  cannot fulfil the orders placed by you with us in  time.Under the circumstances, please note that the delivery	timeof all your pending contracts with us shall be automaticallyunderstood as extended for the period the working is stoppedand till the normal state of affairs recurs."It  would  be  noticed that the letter begins  by  making  areference  to the current political situation which  led  tothe  closure  of  the mills and it adds	 that  it  was	varydifficult  to anticipate how long the said state of  affairswould  continue.   It  is  common  knowledge  that,  at	 thematerial time, the whole country in general and the city  ofAhmedabad  in particular was in the grip of a  very  seriouspolitical agitation and nobody could anticipate how long thestrike	resulting from the said, agitation would  last.	  It'is  in that atmosphere of uncertainty that  the  respondentrequested the appellants to note that the time for  deliverywould be automatically extended " for the period the workingis  stopped and till the normal state of affairs  recurs  ".The  first  condition does not present any  difficulty.	  Assoon  as  the strike came to an end and the closure  of	 themills	was  terminated,  the  first  condition	  would	  besatisfied.  It is the second condition that creates the realdifficulty.  What exactly was meant by the  introduction  ofthe  second condition is really difficult to  determine.  Somany  factors  would contribute to the	restoration  of	 thenormal state of affairs that the satisfaction of the  secondcondition   inevitably	introduces  an	element	  of   graveuncertainty  and  vagueness in the said	 proposal.   If	 thenormal state of affairs contemplated by the second conditionrefers	to  the	 normal state of affairs  in  the  politicalsituation  in  the  country that  would	 be  absolutely	 andpatently uncertain.  Even if this normal state of affairs isconstrued  favourably  to the appellants and it	 is  assumedthat  it  has reference to the working of  the	mills,	thatagain  does not appreciably help to remove the	elements  ofuncertainty  and vagueness.  When can normal working of	 themills  be  deemed to recur?  For the normal working  of	 themills several factors are essential.  The full complement ofworkmen should be222present.  The requisite raw material should be available andcoal in sufficient quantities must be in stock.	 Some  otherconditions also may be necessary to make the working of	 themills  fully  normal.	Now,  unless  all  the	 constituentelements  of the normal working of the mills are  definitelyspecified  and agreed upon, the general expression  used  inthe  letter  in that behalf cannot be construed	 as  showinganything  definite  or	certain.   Therefore,  even  if	 theappellants' evidence about the acceptance is believed,	thatonly shows in a very general and loose way the acceptance ofthe proposal contained in the letter.  It does not assist usin  determining what was understood between the parties	 andagreed	upon  by them as constituting the  normal  state  ofaffairs	 mentioned  in the letter.  In this  connection,  itwould  be relevant to refer to the material  allegations  inthe plaint itself.  In para. 7, the plaint has averred	thatthe plaintiffs agreed to the said extension of time for	 thedelivery  of the said goods as suggested by  the  defendant,that is by a period during which the said mills would remainclosed.	 In other words, the whole of the plaint proceeds onthe  assumption	 that the extension of the  period  for	 thedelivery of goods had reference only to the stoppage of	 themills.	Indeed, it was sought to be argued at one stage thatthe  second condition in the letter should be treated  as  ameaningless surplusage and the extension of time agreed uponbetween the parties should be read in the light of the firstcondition  alone.  In support of this argument reliance	 wasplaced on the decision in Nicolene Ld. v. Simmonds (1).	  Inthat  case,  a	contract  for the  sale	 of  a	quantity  ofreinforcing  steel  bars was expressed as subject to  "	 theusual conditions of acceptance ". The seller repudiated	 thecontract  whereupon the buyers claimed and were	 awarded  bythe  trial  judge damages for the breach  of  contract.	  Onappeal,	 the  seller  contended that the  contract  was	 notconcluded there being no consensus ad item in regard to	 theconditions of acceptance.  It was held that, there being  no"  usual  conditions  of acceptance  ",	 the  condition	 wasmeaningless and should be ignored, and that the(1)  [1953] 1 Q. B. 543, 552.223contract  was  complete and enforceable.  Dealing  with	 therelevant clause, Denning L. J. observed, "that clause was sovague  and  uncertain  as to be	 incapable  of	any  precisemeaning.   It  is  clearly severable from the  rest  of	 thecontract.  It can be rejected without impairing the sense orreasonableness of the contract as a whole, and it should  beso reacted.  The contract should be held good and the clauseignored ". Then' the learned Lord Justice pointed out that "the  parties themselves treated the contract as	 subsisting.They  regarded	it as creating binding	obligations  betweenthem and it would be most unfortunate if the law should	 sayotherwise  ". " You would find ", observed the learned	LordJustice,  " defaulters all scanning their contracts to	findsome  meaningless  clause on which to ride free	 ".  In	 ouropinion,  this	decision  can be of  no	 assistance  to	 theappellants'  case  before us.  The second condition  in	 theletter	in  question constitutes a clause which	 had  to  beagreed	upon  by  the parties since it	formed	one  of	 theconditions  of the respondent's proposals for the  extensionof  time.  The respondent's proposal was to extend time	 forthe  performance of the contract subject to  two  conditionsand unless both the conditions were agreed upon between	 theparties there would be no valid or binding extension of timeunder  s. 63 of the Indian Contract Act.  The fact that	 thesecond	condition introduced by the respondent is vague	 anduncertain, does not necessarily show that the said conditionwas  intended  by  the respondent to be the  addition  of  ameaningless surplusage.	 If that be the true position,	thenthe  material allegations in the plaint itself	demonstrablyprove that there has been no acceptance by the appellants ofthe  second  condition mentioned by the	 respondent  in	 itsproposal to extend time for the performance of the contract.Besides,  as  we  have	already	 indicated,  it	 is   reallydifficult  to  hold  that the respondent  had  a  clear	 andprecise notion as to the constituent elements of the  secondcondition  mentioned in its letter and that  the  appellantswere  duly  apprised of the said  constituent  elements	 andagreed with the said condition with that knowledge.  In thisconnection, we may usefully refer to the decision224of  the	 House of Lords in Scammel (G.) And Nephew,  Ld.  v.(Ouston)  (H.	C.  And	 J. 0.)	 (1).	In  this  case,	 therespondent  had agreed to purchase from the appellant a	 newmotor-van  but stipulated that this order was given  on	 theunderstanding that the balance of purchase price can be	 hadon the hire-purchase terms over a. period of two years.	 TheHouse  of  Lords held that the clause  as  to  hire-purchaseterms  was  so	vague  that  no	 precise  meaning  could  beattributed  to it and consequently there was no	 enforceablecontract  between the parties.	In his speech,	Lord  Wrightobserved  that	" the object of the court is to	 do  justicebetween	 the  parties, and the court will do  its  best,  ifsatisfied  that there was an ascertainable  and	 determinateintention  to  contract, to give effect to  that  intention,looking at substance and not at mere form...... But the testof  intention  is to be found in the words used.   If  thesewords, considered however broadly and untechnically and withdue regard to all the just implications, fail to evince	 anydefinite  meaning  on which the court can  safely  act,	 thecourt has no choice but to say that there is no contract  ".Then the learned Law Lord added that his reason for thinkingthat  the clause was vague was not only based on the  actualvagueness  and unintelligibility of the words used  but	 wasconfirmed  by  the startling diversity of  the	explanationstendered by those who think there was a bargain of what	 thebargain was.  We would like to add that, when the appellantsattempted  to  explain	the  true  meaning  of	the   secondcondition, it was discovered that the explanations given  bythe  appellants' counsel were diverse and inconsistent.	  Wemust,  therefore, hold that the learned Judges of  the	HighCourt  were  right  in coming to  the  conclusion  that	 theconditions mentioned by the respondent in its letter  askingfor extension of time were so vague and uncertain that it isnot  possible to ascertain definitely the period for  which-the  time  for the performance of the  contract	 was  reallyintended to be extended.  In such a case, the agreement	 forextension must be held to be vague and(1)  [1941] A.C. 251.225uncertain  and	as  such  void under s.	 29  of	 the  IndianContract Act.There  is one more point which must be considered.   It	 wasstrongly  urged	 before us by the appellants  that,  in	 thetrial  court, no plea had been taken by the respondent	thatthe  agreement	for  the extension of  time  was  vague	 anduncertain.  No such plea appears to have been taken even  inthe  grounds  of appeal preferred by the respondent  in	 theHigh Court at Bombay; but apparently the plea was allowed tobe  raised  in	the High Court and the	appellants  took  noobjection  to it at that stage.	 It cannot be said  that  itwas  not open to the High Court to allow such a plea  to  beraised	even for the first time in appeal.  After  all,	 theplea  raised  is  a  plea  of  law  based  solely  upon	 theconstruction  of the letter which is the basis of  the	casefor  the  extension  of	 time for  the	performance  of	 thecontract  and  so it was competent to the  appeal  court  toallow  such  a plea to be raised under 0. 41, r. 2,  of	 theCode  of Civil Procedure.  If, on a fair  construction,	 thecondition  mentioned in the document is held to be vague  oruncertain,  no evidence can be admitted to remove  the	saidvagueness  or uncertainty.  The provisions of s. 93  of	 theIndian	Evidence  Act are clear on this point.	 It  is	 thelanguage  of  the  document  alone  that  will	decide	 thequestion.   It	would not be open to the parties or  to	 thecourt  to  attempt  to remove the  defect  of  vagueness  oruncertainty by relying upon any extrinsic evidence.  Such anattempt	 would	really	mean the making of  a  new  contractbetween	 the parties.  That is why we do not think that	 theappellants can now effectively raise the point that the pleaof  vagueness should not have been entertained in  the	HighCourt.The  result is we confirm the finding of the High  Court  onthe question of vagueness or uncertainty of the agreement toextend	time and that must inevitably lead to the  dismissalof the present appeal.We  are,  however, free to state that we have  reached	thisconclusion  with  some reluctance because we  are  satisfiedthat there are no bona fides in the attitude29226adopted	 by the respondent in the present  litigation.	 Themain  pleas  raised by the respondent  against	the  bindingcharacter of the contracts themselves as well as against theauthority  of Laxmidas to write the letter for extension  oftime  have been rejected by both the courts below,  and	 theonly  ground on which the respondent succeeds before us	 wasmade  on  behalf of the ,respondent for the  first  time  inappeal.	  Under these circumstances we think the fair  orderas  to	costs would be that parties should  bear  their	 owncosts  throughout.   The result is the appeal fails  and  isdismissed   but	 there	would  be  no  order  as  to   coststhroughout.				     Appeal dismissed.