PETITIONER:RANI DRIG RAJ KUER	Vs.RESPONDENT:RAJA SRI AMAR KRISHNA NARAIN SINGHDATE OF JUDGMENT:14/12/1959BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.SUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1960 AIR  444		  1960 SCR  (2) 431ACT:Court  of Wards-Estates of appellant and respondent both  incharge	of Court of Wards-Statute Providing for	 appointmentof   representatives  of  such	wards-Failure	to   appointrepresentatives- Settlement of appeal by Court of Wards	 andcompromise decree thereon-Validity of-Whether Provisions  ofstatute mandatory  U.P. Court of Wards Act, 1912, (U.P. 4 of1912), s. 56, Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908),  0.XXXII.HEADNOTE:The respondent, proprietor of Ramnagar Estate, filed a	suitagainst	 the appellant, proprietor of Ganeshpur Estate,	 forthe  recovery of certain properties.  The appellant filed  across-suit  against the respondent.  During the pendency  ofthe  suits  the	 appellant was declared to be  a  person  ofunsound mind and the Court of Wards assumed  superintendenceof  her properties under the U. P. Court of Wards  Act,	 andplaced	them  in  charge  of  the  Deputy  Commissioner	  ofBarabanki.   Thereupon	the cause titles on the	 suits	wereamended	 and  in place of the appellant's name	the  'DeputyCommissioner, Barabanki I/C Court of Wards Ganeshpur Estate'was  substituted.   The	 Trial	Court  partly  decreed	 therespondent's -suit and dismissed the appellant's suit.	Bothparties	 preferred  appeals to the High	 Court.	  While	 theappeals were pending the Court of Wards took over the Estateof  the respondent also and placed it also in charge of	 theDeputy	Commissioner,  Barabanki.  The cause titles  of	 theappeals	  were	then  amended  and  for	 the  name  of	 therespondent,  the  name 'Deputy Commissioner,  Barabanki	 I/CCourt	of   Wards   Ramnagar	Estate'	  was	substituted.Thereafter, the Court of Wards passed a resolution  settlingthe  appeal on certain terms and under its instructions	 thelawyers	 for  the parties presented petitions  to  the	HighCourt  for recording compromises in the appeals.   The	HighCourt  passed decrees in terms of the compromises.   Shortlyafterwards  the	 Court of Wards released  the  two  estates.Later, the appellant recovered from her affliction, and	 wasdeclared   to	be  of	sound  mind.   She   presented	 twoapplications to the High Court alleging that the  compromisedecrees were a nullity and praying for a proper disposal  ofthe appeals.  The High Court rejected the applications.	 Theappellant  contended,  that the compromise  decrees  were  anullity (i) as the Court of Wards had not complied with	 themandatory  provisions  of s. 56 of the Act,  (ii)  as  therecould  not  in	law be a compromise unless  there  were	 twoparties but in this case there was only one party the DeputyCommissioner, - Barabanki and (iii) as the High Court failedto  appoint  a disinterested person. as I  guardian  of	 theappellant -who432was  of	 unsound mind under 0. XXXII of the  Code  of  CivilProcedure.Held,  (per  S.	 K. Das and A. K. Sarkar,  jj  ),  that	 thecompromise  decrees were not a nullity and were	 binding  onthe parties.  Section 56 of the Act which provided that when in  a	suitor proceeding two or more wards had conflicting interests, "the  Court  of	Wards shall appoint for	 each  such  ward  arepresentative " to conduct or defend the case on behalf  ofthe  ward  whom he represented was clearly  direct  and	 thefailure	 of  the Court of Wards to  observe  the  provisionsthereof did not render the compromise decrees a nullity.   Adirectory  provision did not give discretionary power to  door  not	 to do the thing directed ; it was  intended  to  beobeyed but a failure to obey it did not render a thing	dulydone in disobedience of it a nullity.When  the appeals were compromised, the	 compromise  betweenthe  parties to the appeals, namely, the appellant  and	 therespondent.   It  was  not a  compromise  which	 the  DeputyCommissioner, Barabanki, made with himself though he  repre-sented both the parties.  There was nothing in the Act whichindicated that the Court of Wards did not have the power  ofmaking a contract between two wards.The  Deputy Commissioner, Barabanki had been  appointed	 theguardian of the appellant under the Act, and he was entitledto act as her guardian for the appeals under 0. XXXII, r.  4Of  the	 Code.	 The Court of Wards  was  different  from  aprivate guardian and could be trusted to be impartial.	 TheHigh  Court  was  right	 in leaving  the  interests  of	 theappellant in charge of the Court of Wards though it was alsoin charge of the interests of the respondent.Per K. Subba Rao, J.-The compromise decrees were a  nullity.The provisions of S. 56 of the Act were mandatory and a non-compliance  therewith vitiated the proceedings.	 The  inten-tion  of the legislature should be gathered from the  objectof  the	 Act and from a consideration of  the  inconveniencethat may be caused by accepting the one or the other of	 theviews.	 The object of S. 56 was to prevent the	 anomaly  ofthe  same person representing two conflicting interests	 andto  safeguard  the interests of the wards placed  under	 thesupervision  of the Court of Wards.  No inconvenience  wouldresult	from  holding the provisions to be  mandatory.	 Theword " shall " in S. 56 could not be read as " may ".jagan  Nath  v. jaswant Singh, [1954] S.C.R. 892,  Queen  v.Ingall,	 (1876)	 2 Q.B.D. 199, Caldow v. Pixwell,  (1876)  2C.P.D. 562, Hari Vishnu Kamath v. Syed Ahmad Ishaque, [1955]1 S.C.R. 1104 and Braja Sunder Deb v. Rajendra Narayan BhanjDeo, (1937) L.R. 65 I.A. 57, referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: CiVil Appeals Nos. 422 &	 423of 1958.433Appeals	 from  the judgment and decree	dated  November	 22,1957, of the Allahabad High Court (Lucknow Bench),  Lucknow,in Civil Misc.	Applications Nos. 54 and 56 of 1957.Niamatullah,  S.  N. Andley and J. B. Dadachanji for  O.  N.Srivastava, for the appellant.H.   N.	 Sanyal,  Additional  Solicitor-General	 of   India,Bishun Singh and C. P. Lal, for the respondent.1959.	December  14.  The Judgment of S. K. Das and  A.  K.Sarkar,	 JJ.  was  delivered by' Sarkar, J.  Subba  Rao,  J.delivered a separate judgment.SARKAR	J.-Raja	 Udit  Narain Singh was	 the  proprietor  ofRamnagar  estate, a big taluqdari in district  Barabanki  inUttar  Pradesh,	 formerly known as the United  Provinces  ofAgra  and Oudh and for short U.P., an abbreviation still  inuse.   Ramnagar estate was governed by the Oudh Estates	 Act(1  of 1869), and in the absence of any disposition  by	 theholder	for  the  time being, it appears  to  have  devolvedaccording to the rule of primogeniture.Raja  Udit Narain died in 1927 leaving two sons of whom	 theolder was Raja Harnam and the younger Kanwar Sarnam.  KanwarSarnam died in 1928 leaving the respondent his only son, anda widow, Parbati Kuer.	Raja Harnam died thereafter in	1935without issue, leaving the appellant his sole widow.After  the death of Raja Harnam disputes arose	between	 therespondent, who was then a minor and was represented by	 hiscertificated  guardian,	 his mother Parbati  Kuer,  and	 theappellant, a reference to which has now to be made.The appellant's contentions appear to have been as follows :Raja Udit Narain left a will bequeathing certain villages ofRamnagar  estate to Raja Harnam absolutely and the  rest  ofit,  as set out in a schedule to the will, to him  for	lifeand  after him to Kanwar Sarnam for life and  thereafter  orfailing the latter, to the respondent absolutely.  The	willdeclared  that	village Bichelka had been given to  her	 forlife as " runumal "434or wedding present and that she would have a maintenance  ofRs.  500, per month out of the estate.	The schedule to	 thewill did not mention five of the villages of Ramnagar estatewith  regard  to which Raja Udit Narain died  intestate	 andthese  thereupon devolved on  Raja Harnam under the rule  ofprimogeniture  that applied to the estate.  After Raja	UditNarain's  death,  Raja Harnam went into	 possession  of	 theestate	and executed a will leaving all the properties	overwhich  he  had a power of disposition, including  the  sevenvillages  bequeathed to him absolutely by Raja	Udit  Narainand the five villages not disposed of by his will, to her inabsolute right.	 Thereafter, Raja Harnam executed a deed  ofgift  in  her  favour  giving  her  most  of  the  immovableproperties covered by his will and several house  propertiesin Lucknow.On  these allegations the appellant made a claim to all	 theproperties said to have been given to her by the,  aforesaidwills and the gift of Raja Harnam.  Parbati Kuer, on  behalfof  her	 son,  the respondent,	challenged  the	 factum	 andvalidity of the wills and the gift said to have been made byRaja Harnam and resisted the appellant's claim.	 And so	 thedisputes between the parties arose.The  Deputy Commissioner of Barabanki intervened to  restorepeace and brought about a family arrangement, into which theparties	 entered on January 22, 1935, settling the  disputeson   the  terms	 therein  contained.   Under   this   familyarrangement certain properties came to the appellant but  itis not necessary for the purposes of these appeals to  referto them in detail.The  peace  created by the family arrangement did  not	lastlong.  The respondent after attaining majority on  September12,  1940, repudiated the family arrangement on	 grounds  towhich it is unnecessary to refer.On September 6, 1943, he filed a suit against the  appellantto set aside the family arrangement and recover from her theproperties of the estate in her possession.  The defence  ofthe  appellant to the suit was that the	 family	 arrangementwas  binding  on  the respondent.   However,  to  cover	 theeventuality of the435family	arrangement being found to be void or voidable,	 theappellant  herself filed a suit against respondent  claimingtitle to various properties of the estate under the will  ofRaja Udit Narain and the will and gift of Raja Harnam.	 Therespondent contested this suit.	 With the particulars of theclaims	and defences in the suits or their soundness we	 arenot concerned in these appeals, and a reference to them willnot be necessary.While  these  two suits were pending, the appellant  was  onNovember 12, 1945, declared by the District Judge of Lucknowunder the provisions of the Lunacy Act, 1912, to be a personof  unsound  mind.   Thereupon the Court  of  Wards  assumedsuperintendence of the properties of the appellant under theprovisions  of	the  U.P. Court of  Wards  Act,	 hereinafterreferred to as the Act, and placed them in the charge of theDeputy	Commissioner of Barabanki district in which most  ofthese  properties were situate.	 The Court of Wards gave  tothese  properties  the	name Ganeshpur	estate.	  Upon	suchassumption of charge the -cause titles of the two suits wereamended and in the place of the appellant's name, the name "Deputy Commissioner, Barabanki I/C Court of Wards, Ganeshpurestate	" was substituted, such amendment being required  bythe  provisions	 of s. 55 of the Act the terms of  which  weshall  presently  set  out.   The letters "  I/C  "  in	 thesubstituted  name  were an abbreviation of the	words  "  incharge of."Thereafter, the respondent's suit was- dismissed by a decreedated June 3, 1947, except as to his claim to two  villages,it  being  found that in them Raja Harnam had  only  a	lifeestate	and  to them the appellant had no  claim  after	 hisdeath,	and that these had been given to her by	 the  familyarrangement  by	 mistake.   As the  family  arrangement	 wassubstantially  upheld  by the  decree  in  the	respondent'ssuit,  the  appellant's suit became unnecessary for  it	 badbeen  founded on the basis that the family  arrangement	 wasvoid or could be avoided.  It had therefore to be dismissed.Two appeals were filed from the decisions in these two suitsin the High Court at Lucknow, one by the Deputy436Commissioner  of  Barabanki representing the estate  of	 theappellant  against  the decree	dismissing  the	 appellant'ssuit,  being  F.C.A. No. 99 of 1947, and the  other  by	 therespondent,  being F.C.A. No. 2 of 1948, against the  decreedismissing  his	 suit.	F.C.A. No. 99 appears to  have	beenfiled  merely  as a matter of safety, to be  proceeded	withonly in case the respondent's appeal, F.C.A. No. 2 of  1948,succeeded.While  the  appeals  were pending, the	respondent  made  anapplication  under the Act to have his estate  placed  underthe  charge  of the Court of Wards.   That  application	 wasaccepted  and  the superintendence of his estate  was  takenover  by  the  Court  of Wards on  February  8,	 1950.	 Therespondent's estate was also placed by the Court of Wards inthe  charge  of the Deputy Commissioner, Barabanki,  as	 theestate	was  within his jurisdiction.  The  Court  of  Wardsretained for it its old name of Ramnagar estate.  The  causetitles of the appeals had again to be amended in view of  s.55 of the Act and for the name of the respondent, the name "Deputy	Commissioner Barabanki I/C Court of  Wards  Ramnagarestate	" was substituted.  The cause titles of the  appealsthen became,Deputy Commissioner, Barabanki I/C Court of Wards  Ganeshpurestate			   Appellant		    versusDeputy	Commissioner, Barabanki I/C Court of Wards  Ramnagarestate				     Respondent     ANDDeputy Commissioner, BarabankiI/C   Court   of	  WardsRamnagar estate			      Appellant     versusDeputy Commissioner, BarabankiI/C   Court   of	  WardsGaneshpur estate	... Respondent.The position thus was that the estates of both the appellantand  the  respondent came under the superintendence  of	 thesame  Court  of Wards and were placed in the charge  of	 thesame  Deputy Commissioner in whose name each party sued	 andwas  sued in the appeals.  This situation was  the  occasionfor the437proceedings  to be referred to presently, from	which  theseappeals arise.	Before coming to these proceedings,  certainother facts have however to be stated.On December 3, 1951, the Court of Wards passed a  resolutionsettling  the  appeals on certain terms as it  thought	thatsuch  settlement  was  in  the best  interests	of  the	 twocontending wards, particularly in view of the heavy costs ofthe  litigation	 and  the  then	 impending  legislation	 forabolition    of	  zemindaries.	  Thereafter,	under	 theinstructions  of the Court of Wards, the  lawyers  appearingfor  the parties in the appeals presented to the High  Courton April 28,1952, petitions for recording compromises in theappeals and for passing decrees in accordance therewith.  OnMay  2,	 1952, the High Court passed  orders  directing	 thecompromises  to be recorded and decrees to be passed in	 theappeals in terms thereof.  The appeals were thus disposed ofand  the  proceedings therein terminated. When	the  appealswere so compromised, the paperbooks in respect of them	werein the course of preparation.It is not necessary to encumber this judgment by setting outthe  terms  of	the  compromise.   It  is  however  of	someimportance  to	state  that  the  petitions  embodying	the-compromise were signed twice by Mr. K. A. P. Stevenson, onceas  Deputy  Commissioner  Barabanki,  I/C  Court  of  Wards,Ramnagar estate, district Barabanki (Appellant in F.C.A. No.2  of  1948 and respondent in F.C.A. No. 99  of	 1947)"	 andagain  as " I/C Court of Wards, Ganeshpur  estate,  districtBarabanki (Respondent in F.C.A. No. 2 of 1948 and  appellantin  F.C.A. No. 99 of 1947)".  Obviously, Mr. Stevenson,	 theDeputy Commissioner, Barabanki, signed each petition once asrepresenting  the  appellant and again as  representing	 therespondent.   It is also of some interest to note  that	 thepetitions were presented in Court by Sri Sita Ram,  Advocatefor  the appellant's estate and Sri Bishun  Singh,  Advocatefor the respondent's estate.Some  more  events happened before the	proceedings  out  ofwhich  these appeals arise were started.  Shortly after	 thecompromise decrees had been passed, ail Act56438abolishing  zemindaries	 came  into force in  U.P.  and	 thezemindary estates of the parties vested in the Government ofU.P.  Thereupon the Court of Wards ceased to  function.	  Inanticipation  of this situation the estates of	the  partieswere released by the Court of  Wards.  In view, however,  ofthe  appellant's mental incapacity, an order was  passed  bythe  District  Judge of Lucknow, on April 27, 1953,  in	 thelunacy proceedings, placing her estate in the charge of	 theDeputy	Commissioner, Barabanki and one Mr. M. L. Sarin	 andappointing them as the guardians of her person and property.A  few	years  later,  the  appellant  recovered  from	 heraffliction  and an order was passed by the  District  Judge,Lucknow	 on  October 6, 1956, declaring her to be  of  soundmind.  Her aforesaid guardians were thereupon discharged andshe was put in possession of her properties.After the appellant had regained her mental competence,	 shebegan  to  entertain a feeling that the	 compromise  in	 theappeals	 had not done full justice to her and she set  aboutto  find a way to get out of it.  On January 14,  1957,	 theappellant  made	 two  applications  to	the  High  Court  atLucknow, one in each of the said appeals Nos. 99 of 1947 and2 of 1948, for an order that the work of the preparation  ofthe paperbooks of the said appeals be resumed under  ChapterXIII of the Rules of the High Court from the stage at  whichit  was	 interrupted  by the compromise	 decrees,  as  thosedecrees	 were  a nullity and did not terminate	the  appealswhich  must  therefore	be  deemed  to	be  pending.   Theseapplications  were  heard  together by the  High  Court	 anddismissed  by  its judgment and orders	dated  November	 22,1957.	It is against this judgment and the orders that	 thepresent	 appeals  have	been brought.	These  appeals	wereconsolidated  by  an order made by the High Court  and	theyhave been heard together in this Court.It  is	not  the appellant's case that	the  compromise	 wasbrought about by fraud or was otherwise vitiated on  similargrounds	 and  is  therefore  liable to	be  set	 aside.	  Noavoidance  of  the  compromise	is  sought.   In  fact,	 theappellant had initially alleged in her petitions439that  the  compromise had been brought about  by  fraud	 andcollusion.   She however amended the petitions	by  deletingthe  paragraphs	 containing these allegations and  chose  toproceed on the purely legal basis that the compromise was  anullity.  It is for this reason that we have not referred tothe  terms of the compromise.  No question arises  in  thoseappeals as to their fairness or as to whether they should beavoided on any equitable ground.If  the compromise decrees were a nullity as  the  appellantcontends, then she would no doubt be entitled to proceed  onthe  basis as if they bad never been made and in  that	viewher applications would be competent and should succeed.	 Thequestion is whether the compromise decrees were a nullity.The appellant first says that the compromise decrees were  anullity	 as  the  terms	 of  s. 56  of	the  Act  which	 aremandatory,  had not been complied with.	 That section  readsthus:Section 56: When in any suit or proceeding two or more wardsbeing parties have conflicting interests, the Court of Wardsshall  appoint for each such ward a representative  and	 thesaid  representative shall thereupon conduct or	 defend	 thecase  on behalf of the ward whom he represents,	 subject  tothe general control of the Court of Wards.It  is true that no representative had been appointed  underthis  section for either party for the purposes of  the	 twoappeals.    It	is  said  that	this  omission	to   appointrepresentatives made the compromise decrees a nullity as theterms of the section are imperative.The question then is, is s. 56 imperative ? In our view,  itis not.	 It, no doubt, says that " the Court of Wards  shallappoint . . . . a representative." But it is well-known thatthe  use  of  the word " shall " is not	 conclusive  of	 thequestion  whether a provision is mandatory: see Hari  VishnuKamath	v.  Syed Ahmad Ishaque (1).  The  intention  of	 thelegislature has to be gathered from the whole statute.Several grounds are suggested why s. 56 should be held to beimperative.  First, it is said that otherwise,(1)[1955] 1 S.C.R. 1104.440in  view  of s. 55, it would be otiose.	 Section  55  is  inthese terms:Section	 55:  No  ward shall sue or be sued  nor  shall	 anyproceedings  be taken in the civil court otherwise  than  byand  in the name of the Collector in charge of his  propertyor  such other person as the Court of Wards may	 appoint  inthis behalf.     It is said that the concluding words of s. 55 give theCourt	of  Wards  a  discretionary  power  to	 appoint   arepresentative	and therefore if s. 56 was  only  directory,then  it  would also give the same  discretionary  power  toappoint	 a  representative  and	 thus  become  otiose.	 Thecontention seems to us to be ill founded.  In order that onesection	 may be rendered otiose by a certain  interpretationof  another, that interpretation must make the two  sectionsdeal  with  the same subject- matter, the two must  then  beserving	 the same purpose.  The argument is founded  on	 thebasis  that read as an imperative provision s. 56 would	 notbe  otiose,  that  is, then it would be	 serving  a  purposedifferent  from	 that which s. 55 served.  Now,	 we  do	 notappreciate  how	 s.  56 becomes otiose by being	 read  as  adirectory  provision while it would not be so if read  as  amandatory  provision.	Surely,	 the  subject-matter  of   astatutory  provision  is not changed whether it is  read  asdirectory  or  as  mandatory.  If it was  not  otiose  as  amandatory  provision, it would no more be so as a  directoryprovision.   Another  fallacy in this argument	is  that  itassumes	 that  by reading s. 56 as a directory	provision  adiscretion is conferred on the Court of Wards to appoint  ornot to appoint representatives for the wards, as it pleases.A provision giving a discretionary power leaves the donee ofthe  power  to use or not to use it at	his  discretion.   Adirectory  provision  however gives no	discretionary  powerfree  to  do or not to do the thing directed.	A  directoryprovision is intended to be obeyed but a failure to obey  itdoes  not render a thing duly done in disobedience of it,  anullity.  Therefore, it seems to us to be wrong to say	thatby  reading  s.	 56 as merely directory	 any  discretion  isconferred on the Court of Wards.441It  also  seems	 clear to us that ss. 55 and  56  deal	withentirely different matters.  Section 55 deals only with	 thename  in which a ward may sue or be sued.  Section 56  dealswith  appointment of representatives for two or	 more  wardswho  are  parties  to  a  litigation  and  have	 conflictinginterests,  to defend or conduct the case on behalf  of	 thewards, and s. 56 would apply whether the wards were sued  inthe names of the Collectors in charge of their properties orin  the	 names of persons appointed for the purpose  by	 theCourt of Wards.	 There is nothing to show that the represen-tatives appointed under s. 56 are to be named in the  recordof the case as representing the wards.	The section does notsay  so	 Section 56 contemplates a stage where two  or	morewards  are  already parties to a litigation.   It  thereforecontemplates  the wards suing or being sued in the names  ofthe  Collectors	 in charge of their properties or  of  otherpersons appointed under s. 55.	Notwithstanding this, s.  56does not provide that the representatives appointed under itshall replace the Collector or the person appointed under s.55  on the record of the litigation.  Therefore it seems  tous clear that if s. 56 is read as a directory provision,  s.55 would not become otiose.Next it is said that ss. 57 and 58 of the Act also deal withthe appointment by the Court of Wards of representatives forthe  wards in certain proceedings between them but in  thesesections  the words used are respectively "shall  be  lawfulfor the Court of Wards to appoint" and "may appoint",  whilethe word used in s. 56 is "shall" and that this	 distinctionclearly	 indicates that the intention of the legislature  isto make s. 56 imperative.This  argument also does not appear to us to be	 sound.	  Weare  not  satisfied  that because a  statute  uses  in	someprovisions  the word "shall" and in others the words  "shallbe  lawful" or "may", it necessarily indicates thereby	thatthe  provisions	 containing  the  word	"shall"	 are  to  beunderstood  as	mandatory provisions.  We  think  that	eachprovision has to be considered by itself, and the context inwhich  the  word  "shall" occurs in it, the  object  of	 theprovision442and other considerations may lead to the view that in  spiteof the use of the word "shall", it is a directory provision.It  seems to us that ss. 57 and 58 rather indicate  that  ifthe  appointments there contemplated are  merely  directory,the  appointments  provided  by s. 56  are  also  directory.Section	 57  empowers the Court of Wards when  any  questionarises	between	 two or more wards of such  nature  that  anadjudication  upon it by a court is expedient, to appoint  arepresentative for each ward and require the representativesso appointed to prepare a statement containing the point  orpoints	for  determination and to file the  statement  in  acivil  court  in the form of a case for the opinion  of	 thecourt.	 The section further provides that the	civil  courtshall proceed to hear and dispose of the case in the  mannerprescribed  by the Code of Civil Procedure for	the  hearingand  disposal  of  suits and also that	the  case  shall  beconducted  by  the representatives appointed for  the  wardssubject	 to  the  general control of  the  Court  of  Wards.Section 58 empowers the Court of Wards when it thinks that adispute which has arisen between two or more wards is a	 fitsubject	  for  reference  to  arbitration,  to	 appoint   arepresentative for each ward and require the representativesto  submit  the dispute to the arbitration of  a  person  orpersons approved by it.	 It would appear therefore that	 theposition of a ward is the same whether the case is  governedby  s.	56,  s. 57 or s. 58.  In each case one	ward  has  adispute with another; in each their interests conflict.	  Inthe  first  two	 cases, the conflict  is  submitted  to	 thedecision of a civil court and in the third, to	arbitration.There  is no reason to think that the  legislature  intendedthat the interests of the wards required more protection  ina  case falling under s. 56 than in a case falling under  s.57  or s. 58.  If, therefore, as the argument concedes,	 theappointment  of	 representatives  was not  intended  by	 thelegislature  to be obligatory under ss. 57 and 58,  no	morecould  the  legislature	 have intended	the  appointment  ofrepresentatives under s. 56 obligatory.This leads us to the argument based on the object of a.	 56.It is said that the object of the section is to443protect the interests of the wards.  Unless the terms of thesection	 are obeyed, it is contended, the  wards'  interestswill  suffer.  So, it is said that s. 56 must  be  construedas a mandatory provision.  This argument overlooks that partof s. 56 which makes the representatives appointed under  itsubject to the general control of the Court of Wards in	 thedischarge of their functions.  It is clear, therefore,	thatit is the intention of the legislature that the interests ofthe  wards  should really be in the charge of the  Court  ofWards in spite of the appointment of the representatives andin  spite  of the conflicting interests of  the	 wards.	  Itfollows	 that the direction to appoint	representatives	 hasnot  been  inserted  in s. 56  to  protect  the	 conflictinginterests  of  the wards or to ensure such  interests  beingproperly  looked after by taking them out of the  charge  ofthe  Court of Wards.  It would indeed be against  the  wholeconcept	 of  the  Court	 of  Wards  Act	 to  hold  that	  itcontemplated  a situation where the interests of  the  wardswould be taken out of the hands of the Court of Wards  whileit  retained  charge of their estates.	We  are,  therefore,inclined to agree with the view of the learned Judges of theHigh Court that " The reason for incorporating s. 56 in	 theAct  appears  to  have been with the idea  of  avoiding	 anyembarrassment to the officers of the Court of Wards who	 mayhave  had  the task in certain cases of	 representing  rivalinterests."  There is thus nothing in the object with  whichs.  56	was enacted to lead us to hold that its	 terms	wereintended to be imperative.We may look at the matter from another point of view.  Unders.  15	of the Act, the Court of Wards,	 upon  assuming	 thesuperintendence of any property, is to nominate a  collectoror  other person to be in charge of it.	 Usually it  is	 theCollector  of  the  district, sometimes	 called	 the  DeputyCommissioner,  in which the largest part of the property  issituate	 who is nominated for the purpose.  In	the  presentcase, as it happened, the estates of both the appellant	 andthe  respondent	 were  situate	in  the	 same  district	  ofBarabanki and had, therefore, been put in charge of	  444the  same officer, namely, the Deputy Commissioner  of	thatdistrict.  Now,	 it may so happen in another case  that	 theestates	 of the wards are in charge of different  Collectorsor Deputy Commissioners. To such a case also s. 56 would  beapplicable  if	the two wards happened to be  parties  to  alitigation with conflicting interests.	It would be  strangeif  in such a case any decree that came to be passed had  tobe  held to be a nullity because the terms of  that  sectionhad  not been complied with.  It could not, of course,	thenbe said that the interests of the wards had been  prejudicedby the omission to appoint representatives under s. 56, for,there  would  in  such	a case	be  no	difficulty  for	 theCollectors  to look after the interests of their  respectivewards  in  the best way possible.  This view of	 the  matteralso seems to indicate that s. 56 is not imperative.We  have now examined all the arguments advanced in  supportof the view that s. 56 is an imperative provision.  We	findthem  without any force.  The question whether a statute  isimperative or otherwise is after all one of intention of thelegislature.	The   rules  of	  interpretation   are	 fordiscovering  that  intention.  We have not  found  any	rulewhich would lead us to hold that s. 56 was intended to be animperative provision.  The section serves no purpose  exceptthe  removal of practical inconvenience in the conduct of  asuit or its defence.  By providing that the  representativesshall  be subject to the control of the Court of Wards,	 thesection	 makes it clear that in spite of the appointment  ofthe representatives the Court of Wards retains all powers inrespect	 of  the litigation. Such powers are  given  to	 theCourt of Wards by the Act itself.  Under s. 38, the Court ofWards  has the right to do all things which it may judge  tobe for the advantage of the ward.  One of such powers is  toconduct	 a litigation on behalf of a ward, in any manner  itthinks best in the interests of the ward it could  thereforecompel the representatives to settle the litigation on termsdecided	 by it.	 If it could so compel the  representatives,it  would be insensible to suggest that it could not  itselfeffect the settlement.445Clearly, the Court of Wards could itself settle a litigationin  which  two	of  its	 wards	were  involved	even   whererepresentatives	 had  been  appointed  under  s.  56.	 Theappointment  of	 representatives could not hence  have	beenintended  to  be obligatory.  In our  view.  therefore,	 thesection	 is clearly directory.	The failure to	observe	 theprovisions  of	the section did not  render  the  compromisedecrees in this case a nullity.It is then said that there was in law no compromise in	thiscase,  A compromise, it is said, is a contract and in  orderthat  there may be a contract 'there must be two parties  toit  which there was not in this case.  It is contended	thatthere was only one party in the present compromise,  namely,the Deputy Commissioner, Barabanki.It  is	true  that  there must be  two	parties	 to  make  acontract.  But it seems to us that the contention that therewas  only  one	party  to  the	compromise  proceeds  on   amisconception  of  its real nature.  It overlooks  that	 thecompromise  was really between the two wards, the  appellantand the respondent.  The compromise was brought about by theCourt  of Wards in -exercise of its statutory powers.	Thatthe  Court of Wards could make a compromise on behalf  of  award  is  clear and not in dispute.  It does  not  lose	 itspowers	when  it  has two wards and  can  therefore  make  acompromise  between  them.   When it does  so,	it  makes  acontract between the two of them.  Therefore, to the presentcompromise  there  were	 two  parties.	 The  act  expresslycontemplates  a	 right	in  the Court of  Wards	 to  make  acontract between two of its Wards.  Thus under s. 61(1)	  ofthe Act, a contract executed by the Court of Wards   for   award may be executed in its own name or on  behalf  of	 theward.	Under  sub-sec.	 (3)  of  that	section,  when	 thetransferor  and transferee are both its wards, the Court  ofWards shall have power to enter into convenants on behalf ofthe transferor and the transferee respectively.	 Sub-section(2) of s. 61 provides that the convenants made by the  Courtof  Wards on behalf of a ward shall be binding on the  ward.If  the	 Court	of Wards did not have the power	 to  make  acontract between two of its wards, it would57446often be impossible to carry on the management of the wards'properties  beneficiently.  The power of the Court of  Wardsto make a contract for a ward is a statutory power.  We findnothing	 in  the Act to indicate that such  power  does	 notexist for making a contract between two wards.It  is true that the cause titles of the appeals showed	 theDeputy	Commissioner, Barabanki, as both the  appellant	 andthe   respondent.   But	 that  did  not	 make	the   DeputyCommissioner  himself  a party to the  appeals.	  There,  ofcourse, cannot be a litigation unless there are two  partiesto  it.	 It will be remembered that in the cause titles	 theDeputy	Commissioner,  Barabanki, was described once  as  incharge	of  Ganeshpur  estate- and again  as  in  charge  ofRamnagar   estate.    This   indicates	 that	the   DeputyCommissioner   was   mentioned	in  the	 cause	 titles	  asrepresenting  the the two real parties, i.e., the  appellantand the respondent.Then  again the Deputy Commissioner, Barabanki, was  broughton  the	 record because of s. 55 of the Act.  The  terms  ofthat  section  have been set out earlier and they  leave  nodoubt  that the person Suing Or being sued is the  ward	 andthat  the  ward is suing or being sued in the  name  of	 theCollector.    Therefore	  also	 when	the   appeals	werecompromised,  the compromise was between the parties to	 theappeals,  namely, the appellant and the respondent.  It	 wasnot  a compromise which the Deputy Commissioner,  Barabanki,made  with  himself though he alone  signed  the  compromisepetition.   The contention that there was no  compromise  inthis  case  because there were not two parties,	 must  hencefail.It is lastly said that the compromise decrees were a nullityin  view of the principles embodied in Or.XXXII of the	Codeof  Civil  Procedure.	That order  deals  with	 minors	 andpersons	 of  unsound mind and requires that  when  any	suchperson is a party to a suit, the Court will appoint some oneto  be	his guardian for the suit.  It is true	that  it  isnecessary that the person appointed as guardian should	haveno  interest  in  the litigation against  the  person  underdisability. It is447contended  on behalf of the appellant that she was a  personof unsound mind and so some disinterested person should havebeen  appointed	 her guardian for the appeals and  that	 theDeputy Commissioner, Barabanki, was not such a disinterestedperson	as  he was also interested in  the  respondent,	 theopposing party in the appeals.	It is said that the  decreespassed	in the appeals without another guardian having	beenappointed for the appellant are a nullity.Now,  Or.  XXXII, r.4(2) provides that where a person  underdisability has a guardian declared by a competent authority,no  other person shall be appointed his guardian unless	 theCourt  considers for reasons to be recorded, that it is	 forthe  welfare  of the person under  disability  that  anotherperson	should be appointed as his guardian.  Section 27  ofthe  Act  gives the Court of Wards the power  to  appoint  aguardian  for  a ward who is of unsound	 mind.	 The  DeputyCommissioner, Barabanki, was in fact appointed the  guardianof  the	 appellant under the Act when upon her	lunacy,	 herestate came under the superintendence of the Court of Wards.Her   estate  was  in  his  charge.  Therefore,	 under	 theprovisions  of	Or.  XXXII, r. 4, the  Deputy  Commissioner,Barabanki,  was entitled to act as the appellant's  guardianfor  the  appeals  and the Court had not made  any  order  apointing  another person to be her guardian.  The  Court  ofWards is a statutory body and was created to look after	 theinterests  of the wards.  Its constitution is such  that  itcan  be	 trusted to be impartial.  Its	position  is  whollydifferent from that of a private guardian.  No fault can  befound  with  the Court in having left the interests  of	 theappellant in charge of the Court of Wards though it was alsoin charge of the interests of the respondent.  Indeed, it isat least arguable if the civil court could have by any orderthat  it might have made, prevented the Court of Wards	fromdischarging   its  statutory  duty  of	looking	 after	 theinterests  of its ward.	 Therefore it seems to us  that	 thefailure	 of  the  Court to appoint  another  person  as	 theguardian  of the appellant for the suits or the appeals	 didnot make the compromise decrees a nullity.448One other point raised on behalf of the appellant remains tobe  considered.	  It  is  said that in	fact  there  was  nocompromise  between the two wards.  Now, this is a  questionof  fact  and  was  not	 raised	 in  the  High	Court.	 Therespondent  had no chance of meeting the allegation of	factnow  made.  We also have not the advantage of the  views  ofthe High Court on this question of fact.  It would be unfairto the respondent to allow such a question to be raised now.However that may be, we are satisfied that there was in facta  compromise  made between the two wards by  the  Court  ofWards.	 Our  attention	 has been drawn	 to  the  resolutionpassed by the Court of Wards directing the compromise to  bemade.	That, in our opinion, brought about  the  compromisebetween	 the  two wards; it was the only way  in  which	 theCourt of Wards could -have brought about the compromise.  Wemay also point out that the compromise petitions were signedby the Deputy Commissioner, Barabanki, twice, once for	eachof the parties, and had been 'put into court by the  lawyersrespectively  engaged for the parties for the purpose.	 We,therefore, think that the contention that there was in	factno compromise is entirely without force.In  our	 opinion,  these  appeals must	fail  and  they	 aretherefore dismissed with costs.SUBBA  RAO  J.-I  have had the	advantage  of  perusing	 thejudgment  of  my  learned brother, Sarkar, J.  I  regret  myinability to agree with him.The  facts  of the case and the progressive  stages  of	 thelitigation  are fully stated in the judgment of	 my  learnedbrother,  and  it is not necessary to restate them  here  indetail.	  It would suffice if the factual basis giving	riseto the main controversy in the case be stated.The  appellant	was the owner of Ganesbpur  estate  and	 therespondent of Ramnagar estate.	Both of them became wards ofthe  Court  of	Wards and both the estates  were  under	 themanagement  of the Deputy Commissioner, Barabanki.   Betweenthe  two  estates there was litigation and- at	the  crucialpoint of time,449two appeals, being F.C.A. No. 99 of 1947 and F.C.A. No. 2 of1948,  were  pending  on  the file  of	the  High  Court  atAllahabad.   The  cause-titles	in  the	 appeals  give	 thefollowing array of partiesF.C.A. No. 99 of 1947Deputy Commissioner, Barabanki,I/C Court of Wards, Ganeshpurestate, district Barabanki.		 AppellantversusDeputy Commissioner, Barabanki,I/C Court of Wards, Ramnagarestate, district Barabanki.		RespondentF.C.A. No. 2 of 1948Deputy Commissioner, Barabanki,I/C Court of Wards, Ramnagarestate, district Barabanki.		Appellant	  versusDeputy Commissioner, Barabanki,I/C Court of Wards, Ganeshpurestate, district Barabanki.		RespondentIt  is clear from the said array of parties in	the  appealsthat  the same person represented both the estates, and	 theDeputy	Commissioner, Barabanki, was both the appellant	 andrespondent.   It appears that the Court of Wards effected  asettlement   between  the  two	wards  in  respect  of	 theoutstanding  disputes  between	them,  and,  presumably	  asdirected  by  the Court of Wards, the  Deputy  Commissioner,Barabanki, filed a petition in the High Court for  recordingthe  compromise.   The petition was signed by Sri K.  A.  P.Stevenson, I.A.S., Deputy Commissioner, Barabanki, on behalfof both the estates.  On May 2, 1952, the High Court  passeda decree in terms of the said compromise.The said facts give rise to a short but difficult  question,namely,	 whether  the  compromise  effected  was  a  nullityentitling the appellant to ignore it and to have the appealsdisposed of on merits.The  main argument of Mr. Niamatullah, the  learned  Counselfor the appellant, may be summarized thus: Section 56 of theU.P. Court of Wards Act, 1912450     (hereinafter  called the Act) imposes a statutory	dutyon  the Court of Wards to appoint  separate  representativeswhen  in a suit there are conflicting claims between two  ofits wards, and the Court has no jurisdiction to proceed withsuch  a	 suit and make any order or decree on merits  or  oncompromise  unless  such  an appointment is  made.   In	 thepresent	 case, admittedly no such appointment was  made	 andthe   compromise   petition   was  filed   by	the   DeputyCommissioner,  Barabanki,  in  his  dual  capacity  as	 theappellant  as  well as the respondent, and,  therefore,	 thedecree made therein was a nullity.  If it was a nullity, theargument proceeds, the Court should ignore it and dispose ofthe appeals as if they were still on its file.This  argument, if accepted, would entail the acceptance  ofthe  appeals.  As I propose to do so, it is  unnecessary  toparticularize  the other contentions of the learned  Counselor  give  my  findings thereon.	 For the  same	reason,	 thecounter-argument of the learned Additional Solicitor Generalmay  conveniently  be confined only to	the  said  argument.While  conceding  that the application under s. 151  of	 theCivil  Procedure Code was maintainable if the decree  was  anullity,  the  learned Counsel for the	respondent  contendsthat notwithstanding the non-compliance of the provisions ofs. 56 of the Act, the High Court had jurisdiction to  recordthe compromise lawfully effected by the Court of Wards,	 andtherefore,  the	 decree was not a nullity and could  not  beignored.The question falls to be decided on a true interpretation ofthe  provisions of s. 56 of the Act.  Section 56 appears  inChapter	 VII  of -the Act dealing with suits.  It  would  beconvenient at the outset to read ss. 55 and 56 of the Act.S.   55:  "No  ward  shall  sue or be  sued  nor  shall	 anyproceedings  be taken in the civil court otherwise  than  byand  in the name of the Collector in charge of his  propertyor  such other person as the Court of Wards may	 appoint  inthis behalf."S.   56: " When in any suit or proceeding two or more  wardsbeing parties have conflicting interests,451the  Court  of	Wards shall appoint for	 each  such  ward  arepresentative	and the said representative shall  thereuponconduct	 or  defend  the case on behalf	 the  ward  whom  herepresents,  subject to the general control of the Court  ofWards."These  two  sections are placed in  juxtaposition  and	theyappear	to  be	complementary to  each	other.	 Section  55prescribes the mode or proceeding by or against the ward  ina  court.  Ordinarily, he should sue or be sued in the	nameof  the	 Collector  in charge of his pro.  perty.   It	alsovisualizes the contingency when a Court of Wards may appointin its discretion some other person instead of the Collectorfor  the  Purpose of this section.  Buts. 56  deals  with  aparticular  situation,	namely, when there  are	 conflictinginterests between the wards who are parties to a suit,	and,in  that  event,  a duty is cast on the Court  of  Wards  toappoint	 separate representatives for each such	 ward.	 Theobject	of  s. 56 is selfevident; for,	in  the	 contingencycontemplated  by  that section, an  anomalous  situation  iscreated,  if  the  general  rule  prescribed  by  s.  55  isfollowed, for both the plaintiff and the defendant would  bethe  Collector, a procedure that cannot be tolerated by	 anycivilised  jurisprudence.   That  apart,  the  procedure  isobviously  detrimental	to the interests of the	 wards,	 forthere  is  every danger of their  respective  interests	 notbeing  protected and properly represented in the court.	  Toavoid this anomaly and obvious prejudice to the parties,  s.56  has	 been  enacted.	  A combined  reading  of  the	saidprovisions therefore indicates that the procedure, laid downin  s.	55 must, in the contingency contemplated by  s.	 56,give way to the procedure prescribed by the latter section.The  next question is what does the word " representative  "in  s.	56 mean ? Does it mean, as the	learned,  AdditionalSolicitor  General contends, an agent who is entrusted	withthe  duty  of assisting the Collector, or., as	the  learnedCounsel	 for  the appellant argues, one who  represents	 theward   in  a  suit  by	being  brought	on  record  as	 hisrepresentative	?  The word " representative "	has  in	 lawdifferent meanings.  To represent means " to stand in  placeof " and a representative452is  one,  who stands in the place of another.	The  word  "reprsentative " with prefixes like legal' or personal' addedor  not, when used with reference to ownership of  land	 maymean an heir, executor or legatee.  But in the context of  asuit,  the  word  is also used in the sense  that,  one	 whorepresents another, when the latter is a disqualified personlike a minor or a lunatic.  In this category come guardians.They  are  appointed  by court to represent  a	minor  or  alunatic,  as  the  case may be, and the	 suit  without	suchrepresentative	cannot legally proceed.	 But a	statute	 mayconfer	power  upon  an authority other than  the  court  toappoint a representative to a disqualified person.  That  isthe   position	 in   the   present   case.    A   statutoryrepresentative acts for, and in the place of, a disqualifiedward  and  without such valid representative on	 record	 thesuit  cannot  legally proceed, just like in the	 case  of  aminor or a lunatic to represent whose interests no  guardianis appointed.  If the intention of the legislature was	onlyto  provide for the appointment of a separate agent to	helpthe Collector, who had a dual role to perform, it would haveused  the  word " agent " in the section.  That	 apart,	 theCollector does not require the statutory power to appoint anagent to help him in the conduct of a suit; for, as a  partyto  the suit, he can always appoint separate  Advocates	 forthe  two  wards.  That the word " representative"  does	 notmean  an  agent but is intended to convey the  idea  of	 onerepresenting  a ward and as such brought on record  in	thatcapacity,  is made clear by the other provisions of the	 Actwherein the same word appears.	Section 57 of the Act reads:" (1) Where any question arises as between two or more wardsof such nature that an adjudication upon it by a civil courtis  expedient, it shall be lawful for the Court of Wards  toappoint	 a  representative  on behalf  of  each	 ward.	 Therepresentative	so  appointed  shall  prepare  a   statementcontaining  the point or points for determination and  shallon  behalf of the said wards file the statement in  a  civilcourt  having  jurisdiction in the form of a  case  for	 theopinion of the said court,453(2)  The civil Court shall then proceed to hear and  disposeof  the case in the manner prescribed by the Code  of  CivilProcedure, 1908, for the hearing and disposal of suits.(3)  The  case shall be conducted on behalf of the wards  bytheir representatives appointed under subsection (1) of thissection	 subject  to  the general control of  the  Court  ofWards."It  is	manifest  from this section that  the  duty  of	 therepresentative	under s. 57 is not to act as a clerk  or  anassistant   to	the  ward  but	to  represent  him  in	 theproceedings.   He would be on record representing  the	wardand  it is impossible to contend that the proceedings  unders.  57	of the Act can either be initiated  or	disposed  ofwithout	 a  representative being appointed in  that  behalf.Section 58 of the Act reads:"When it appears to the Court of Wards that any question  ordispute	 arising between two or more wards is a fit  subjectfor   reference	  to   arbitration,   it   may	 appoint   arepresentative	on behalf of each such ward and require	 thesaid  representatives to submit the question or	 dispute  tothe  arbitration  of  such  person  or	persons	 as  it	 mayapprove."Under this section also the appointment of a  representativeon behalf of each ward is a pre-requisite for the initiationand  conduct  of  arbitration proceedings.   Here  also	 therepresentative	is not appointed to assist the ward  but  torepresent  him in the proceedings.  It is a well-known	ruleof  construction that a similar meaning should be  given  tothe  word " representative " in the Act unless	the  contextrequires  otherwise.   The object of the  appointment  of  arepresentative	under ss. 56, 57 and 58 -of the Act  is	 thesame  and  the same meaning should be given  to	 that  word,namely,	 that  the  representative  appointed  is  one	 whorepresents  the	 ward in the proceedings and is	 brought  onrecord as such.Laying emphasis on the word " conduct " or defend " in s. 56of  the Act and on the omission of the word "  compromise  "therein,  it is contended that the representative  appointedthereunder has no58454power to' enter into a compromise.  The section does not, inmy-View, bear out this construction.  The first part of	 thesection	 enjoins  on  the  Court  of  Wards  to	 appoint   arepresentative to each of the wards and then the second partproceeds   to  state  that  such  a  representative   shouldthereupon conduct or defend the case.  The later part of thesection	  does	not  define  the  meaning  of  the  word   "representative	" and limit its scope, but only	 brings	 outthe  idea  that	 the  suit shall not  proceed  till  such  arepresentative	 is  appointed.	  A  person   appointed	  torepresent a disqualified person shall have all the powers ofa  party  subject  to the limitations  imposed	by  relevantstatutes and the only limitation imposed by s. 56 of the Actis  that the said representative is subject to	the  generalcontrol	 of  the  Court	 of  Wards.   It  follows  that	 therepresentative	can enter into a compromise subject, to	 thegeneral control of the Court of Wards.	Assistance is soughtto  be	derived	 by the Additional  Solicitor  General	fromdecisions  distinguishing between the powers of a  Solicitorand  a	Counsel and holding that a Solicitor  being  only  arepresentative	cannot enter into a compromise	without	 theconsent	 of the client, while the latter being in charge  ofthe entire litigation can do so. In my view these  decisionsare  based  upon  the peculiar characteristics	of  the	 twobranches  of  the  profession  and  cannot  legitimately  beinvoked to construe the provisions of s. 56 of the Act.Nor  the fact that the representative appointed under s.  56of  the Act is subject to the general control of the,  Courtof Wards can be relied upon to subvert the operation of	 thesection itself.	 The question of control arises only after arepresentative	is  appointed and the  appointing  authoritycannot	obviously ignore its statutory duty and	 purport  toexercise  the duties of representatives in exercise  of	 itspower of general control over non-existent representatives. Assuming that the representative has no power to compromisethe suit, it does not materially affect the ,question raisedin this case.  In that view the authority empowered to do sohas to effect the compromise, put the same in court  throughthe representatives and455obtain	a decree thereon.  But that does not  dispense	withthe appointment of representatives to conduct and defend thesuit, for without such representation the suit itself  couldnot be proceeded with and a decree could not be obtained  onthe compromise.Lastly,	 it is said that the provisions of the	section	 aredirectory  and	noncompliance thereof would not	 affect	 thevalidity of the compromise decree, if in fact the compromisewas effected bona fide by the competent authority.  The word" shall " in its ordinary import is "obligatory ", but thereare  many  decisions  wherein  the  courts  under  differentsituations  construed  the word to mean " may  ".  The	HighCourt  in  this case relied upon the  observations  of	thisCourt  in  Jagan  Nath v. Jaswant Singh	 (1)  which  run  asfollows:"  It is one of the well recognized rules of  interpretationthat  a	 provision  like  this should be  held	to  be	non-mandatory  unless  non-compliance with	the  provisions	 wasvisited with some penalty."A perusal of the judgment does not disclose that this  Courthas laid down any such inflexible rule of construction.	  Itwas  construing	 the  word  "  shall  "	 in  s.	 82  of	 theRepresentation	of  the People Act, 1951,' which  lays	downthat a, petitioner shall join as respondent to his  petitionall  the candidates who were duly nominated at the  electionother  than himself.  Having regard to the other  provisionsof  the	 Act,  particularly  to	 s.  85	 thereof,  and	 theconstruction put upon a similar word in Order XXXIV, rule 1,of the Civil Procedure Code, this Court held that the word "shall  "  in s. 82 was only directory.	This Court  did	 notpurport to lay down any broad proposition that whenever	 theword  " shall " is used in a statute it should be  construedas  directory  unless non-compliance with the  provision  ismade  penal.   Nor the decision in The Queen v.	 Ingall	 (2)lays  down any such wide rule of construction.	Under s.  42of  Valuation (Metropolis) Act, 1869, provision is made	 forthe performance of several acts within the times  prescribedtherein.  Every matter connected with the valuation must  betransacted before the 31st of March, for the(1) (1954) S.C.R. 892, 901.(2) (1876)  Q.B.D. 199, 207456 list  comes  into force on the 6th April.   But  there	 areother  sections whereunder provision is made  for  preparingthe  valuation lists where there has been omission  to	makethem  according	 to  the  requirements	of  the	 Act.	 Theobservance of times is not enforced by penalties.  The Courtheld  that, notwithstanding the use of the word "shall "  ins. 42 of the Valuation (Metropolis) Act, 1869, the provisionis  only directory. In construing the provisions in  such  amanner, Lush, J., observed:"  We  ought  to look at the object  which  the	 legislaturecontemplated in passing the Valuation (Metropolis) Act, 1869But we must, in construing the Act, strike a balance betweenthe  inconvenience of holding the list to be null  and	voidand  the risk of allowing injury to be done by the delay  inmaking	the list; the former seems to me the  greater  evil,and therefore in my opinion we ought to hold the list to  bevalid."This  judgment is, therefore, an authority for the  positionthat  the  intention of the legislature should	be  gatheredfrom  the object of the Act and also by striking  a  balancebetween	 the possible inconvenience that would be caused  inaccepting  the one or other of the views.  The	decision  inCaldow v. Pixwell (1) deals with the provisions of s. 29  ofthe Ecclesiastical Dilapidations Act, 1871, which says	thatwithin	three  calendar months after the  avoidance  of	 anybenefice,  the bishop shall direct the surveyor,  who  shallinspect	 the buildings of such benefice, and report  to	 thebishop	what  sum,  if any, is required	 to  make  good	 thedilapidations  to which the late incumbent or his estate  isliable.	  It  was held that the provisions as  to  the	timewithin which the bishop is to direct the surveyor to inspectand  report  upon  the buildings of  a	benefice  after	 itsavoidance is directory only, and not imperative; and that  adirection  to inspect and report made by a bishop more	thanthree months after the avoidance of a benefice may be valid.Denman,	 J.,  restates the following rules of  guidance	 forconstruing  such provisions: (i) The scope and object  of  astatute(1)  (1876) a C.P.D. 562.457are the only guides in determining whether its pro.  visionsare  directory	or  imperative; (ii) in the  absence  of  anexpress provision the intention of the legislature is to  beascertained  by	 weighing  the	consequences  of  holding  astatute to be directory or imperative; and (iii) the statuteimposes	 a  public  duty upon the Bishop, and  it  does	 notcreate	a  power  or privilege for the benefit	of  the	 newincumbent  as  a private person.  On  those  grounds,  amongothers,	 the learned Judge held that the provision was	onlydirectory.  Venkatarama Ayyar, J., in Hari Vishnu Kamath  v.Syed Ahmad Ishaque (1) made the following observ. ations:"  They (the rules) are well-known, and there is no need  torepeat	them.	But  they  are all of  them  only  aids	 forascertaining the true intention of the legislature which  isthe  determining factor, and that must ultimately depend  onthe context."In  Craies on Statute Law, 5th Edn., the  following  passageappears, at p. 242:"No universal rule can be laid down as to whether  mandatoryenactments shall be considered directory only or  obligatorywith  an implied nullification for disobedience.  It is	 theduty  of  Courts  of  Justice to try  to  get  at  the	realintention  of the legislature by carefully attending to	 thewhole scope of the statute to be construed."Bearing the aforesaid principles in mind let us look at	 theprovisions of s. 56 of the Act.	 The object of s. 56 of	 theAct is to prevent the anomaly of the same person occupying adual  role of plaintiff and defendant and to provide for  aneffective machinery to safeguard the interests of the  wardswho are placed under the supervision of the Court of  Wards.Should	it be held that the appointment of a  representativewas  at	 the discretion of the Court of	 Wards,	 the  entireobject of the section would be defeated.  A person for whose'benefit the provision was conceived would be represented bythe  opposite party, a situation anomalous in  the  extreme.On  the other hand, no evil consequences can  ordinarily  beexpected to flow if the provision be(1)  (1955) 1 S.C.R. 1104, 1126.458construed as mandatory.	 A statutory body like the Court  ofWards  can be relied upon to discharge the duties cast	uponit  by s. 56 of the Act.  Even if it fails, the suit or	 theappeal,	 as  the case may be, will be heard on merits  or  afresh  compromise  may	be  effected  after  following	 theprescribed procedure.  The balance of convenience is on	 theside  of the provision being construed as  mandatory  ratherthan  as directory.  In the circumstances, I must hold	thatthe  intention of the legislature is to make  the  provisionmandatory and therefore the word "shall" cannot be construedas  "may"  as  contended  by the  learned  Counsel  for	 therespondent. I  cannot accept the contention of the	 learned  AdditionalSolicitor  General that even though s. 56 is mandatory,	 thenon-compliance	of  the provisions of the section  does	 notaffect the validity of the compromise.	If, as I have  held,the appeal could not be proceeded with without the statutoryrepresentative	on record, the whole  proceeding,  includingthe passing of the compromise, without such  representative,was null and void.Before	closing the discussion, a reference to the  decisionof  the Judicial Committee in Braja Sunder Deb	v.  RajendraNarayan	 Bhanj Deo (1) is necessary, as strong	reliance  isplaced	upon  it  in support of	 the  contention  that	non-compliance  of	the mandatory provision of s. 56  would	 notaffect the validity of the compromise decree.  There a	suitbetween	 Raja  Rajendra	 Narayan Bhanj Deo  and	 Raja  BrajaSunder Deb, who became the ward of the Court of Wards  afterthe   institution  of  the  suit,  was	 compromised.	 Thecompromise  petition was put in the Court and a	 decree	 wasmade thereon.  Before the High Court, for the first time,  atechnical  objection  was  taken.   The	 Subordinate   Judgedecreed	 the  suit in terms of the compromise and  a  formaldecree dated December, 22, 1922, was drawn and in the cause-title  of the decree the manager of the Court of  Wards	 wasshown  as  second  defendant  while  he	 should	 have	beendescribed  as  the -representative of the  first  defendant.But in(1)  (1937) L.R. 65 I.A.57.459the  body  of the decree it was clearly mentioned  that	 themanager	 of  the  Court of Wards  had  been  substituted  asguardian  for  the ward.  It was contended therein  for	 theappellant that as the manager of the Court of Wards was madean additional defendant and not made a guardian ad litem  ofthe  appellant,	 the compromise decree in the suit  was	 notbinding	 on  him.   The	 Judicial  Committee  negatived	 thecontention  and held that if the proper parties were on	 therecord and were dealt with on the correct footing, the	merewant  of  formality would not make void the bargain  of	 theparties	 and  the decree of the Court.	But in	the  presentcase,  a mandatory provision had not been complied with	 andthe suit proceeded with the Collector as both the  plaintiffand  defendant.	  The wards were not  represented  by  theirseparate  representatives  for	the simple  reason  that  norepresentatives were appointed.	 There is no analogy betweenthat decision and the present case.For the aforesaid reasons I hold that the compromise  decreewas a nullity and the appeal must be deemed to be pending onthe file of the High Court.In  this  view, I am relieved of the duty of  expressing  myopinion on the other questions raised and seriously  argued,namely,	 whether  the  Court of Wards has  power  to  settleconflicting  disputes between two wards and whether  such  asettlement would be a lawful agreement within the meaning ofOrder XXIII, rule 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure.In the result, the order of the High Court is set aside	 andit is directed to dispose of the appeals in accordance	withlaw.  The appellant will have his costs here and in the HighCourt.By  the	 Court:-In  accordance	with  the  opinion  of	 themajority, the appeals stand dismissed with costs.460