PETITIONER:SALES TAX OFFICER, CUTTACKAND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:M/s.  B. C. PATEL & CO.DATE OF JUDGMENT:15/04/1958BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.BOSE, VIVIANCITATION: 1958 AIR  643		  1959 SCR  520ACT:Sales  Tax-Notification enforcing the charge not  wholly  inconsonance  with the charging  provision-Validity-Assessmentfor periods both before and after the Constitution-Legality-Orissa	Sales  Tax  Act,  1947	(Orissa	 XIV  Of  1947),  s.4--Constitution of India, Art. 186.HEADNOTE:This  appeal  by  the Sales  Tax  authorities  was  directedagainst	 the  judgment and order of the Orissa	High  Court,passed	under  Art. 226 of the Constitution,  quashing	fiveorders of assessment covering five quarters made against therespondents  who carried on the business of  collection	 andsale  of  Kendu leaves in the erstwhile Feudatory  State  ofPallaliara  to	which, on its merger into  the	province  ofOrissa	on  January 1, 1948, the provisions  of	 the  OrissaSales Tax Act, 1947, were extended on March 1, 1949.  On thesame  date  the Government of Orissa issued  a	notificationunder S. 4(1) of the Act which was in the following terms:" In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1)  ofSection 4 Of the Orissa Sales Tax Act, 1947 (Orissa Act	 XIVof  1947),  as applied to Orissa State,	 the  Government  ofOrissa	are pleased to appoint the 31st March, 1949, as	 thedate  with  effect  from  which	 every	dealer	whose  grossturnover  during  the  year ending  the	 31st  March,  1949,exceeded Rs. 5,000 shall be liable to pay521under  the  said Act on sales effected after the  said	dateSection 4 Of the Act, inter alia, provided : " (1) .... witheffect	from such date as the Provincial Government  may  bynotification in the Gazette, appoint, being not earlier than'thirty days after the date of the said notification,  everydealer	whose  gross turnover during  the  year	 immediatelypreceding  the commencement of this Act exceeded  Rs.  5,000shall  be liable to pay tax under the Act on sales  effectedafter the date so notified.... (2) Every dealer to whom sub-section (1) does not apply shall be liable to pay under thisAct  with effect from the commencement of the  year  immedi-ately  following that during which his gross turnover  firstexceeded Rs. 5,000 ".The  goods  were  admittedly delivered	for  consumption  atvarious	 places outside the State and the Sales Tax  Officeras well as the Assistant Collector in appeal, proceeding  onthe basis that the sales took place in the State, held	thatthe  respondents were liable to Sales Tax for all  the	fivequarters,  two of which fell before the commencement of	 theConstitution  and three thereafter.  The contention  of	 therespondents before the High Court was that the	notificationunder  s. 4(1) Of the Act was invalid as it ran	 counter  tothe  provisions	 of  that sub-section and no  part  of	thatcharging section could, therefore, come into force.  It	 wasfurther contended that the assessment for the three quartersfollowing  the commencement of the Constitution was  invalidby  reason or Art. 286 of the Constitution.  The High  Courtfound entirely in favour of the assessee :Held (per Das C. J., Venkatarama Aiyar, S. K. Das and VivianBose, jj.), that the decision of the High Court in so far asit  related  to	 the three  post-Constitution  quarters	 wascorrect	 and must be upheld.  The orders of  assessment	 forthose quarters contravened both Art. 286 of the Constitutionand  s.	 30(r)(a)(1) of the Orissa Sales Tax  Act  and	werewithout	 jurisdiction and must be set aside.  So far as	 thetwo pre-Constitution quarters were concerned, the  assesseeswere clearly liable under s. 4(2) of the Act.Per Das C. J. and Venkatarama Aiyar J. The first part of theimpugned  notification, appointing the date from  which	 theliability was to commence, was in consonance with s. 4(1) Ofthe  Act  and, therefore, clearly intra vires,	whereas	 thesecond	part,  indicating the class of dealers on  whom	 theliability  was to fall, went beyond that section  and  must,therefore, be held to be ultra vires and invalid.  But sincethe  two parts were severable, the invalidity of the  secondpart  could in no way affect the validity of the first	partwhich  brought the charging section into operation  and	 theassessees were liable for the two pre-Constitution  quartersunder s. 4(1) as well.Per S. K. Das and Vivian Bose JJ.-It would not be correct tosay  that  the second part of the notification	was  a	meresurplusage  severable  from the rest  of  the  notification.Liability to pay the522tax  under s. 4(1) of the Act could arise only on the  issueof a valid notification in conformity with the provisions ofthat  sub-section and as there was no such notification	 theassessees were not liable under s. 4(1) Of the Act which didnot  come into operation.  Subsections (1) and (2) Of  s.  4are  mutually  exclusive, and their periods  of	 applicationbeing different both could not apply at the same time and nonotification  was necessary to bring into  operation  sub-s.(2) Of the Act.The  goods  having been admittedly sold	 and  delivered	 forconsumption  outside  the State of Orissa,  under  Art.	 286(1)(a)	 read  with  the  Explanation  as  also	  under	  S.30(1)(a)(1) of the Act, the sales were outside the State  ofOrissa and, consequently, the assessment for the three post-Constitution quarters were without jurisdiction.The  State  of	Bombay v. The United  Motors  (India)  Ltd.,[1953]	S.C.R. 1069 and The Bengal Immunity Company  Limitedv. The State of Bihar, [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603, relied on.Per  Sarkar J.-There could be no liability under s. 4(1)  Ofthe Act till a date was appointed thereunder, and where	 thenotification,  as in the instant case, fixing such  a  date,was not in terms of that sub-clause, there was no fixing  ofa  date at all and the sub-clause could not come  into	playand no liability could arise under it.	It was impossible toignore the second part of the notification in question as  amere  surplusage since the notification read as a whole	 hadone  meaning and another without it.  The  Government  couldnot  be	 heard	to  say	 that  what  it	 had  said  in	 thenotification was not what it actually meant.Both the sub-clauses Of S. 4 having been brought into  forceat  the same time by the same notification, they applied  toall  dealers together and contemplated a situation in  whichthe liability of a dealer under sub-cl. (1) might arise.  Itwas apparent from the scheme of the Act that sub-cl. (2) wasnot intended to have any operation till a date was appointedunder  sub-cl.	(1)  and a liability  under  it	 might	havearisen.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 230 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedApril 12, 1955, of the Orissa High Court in 0. J. C. No.  60of 1952.C.   K.	 Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, R.  GanapathiIyer and R. H. Dhebar, for the appellants.S.   N. Andley, J. B. Dadachanji and Rameshuar Nath, for therespondent.1958.  April 15.  The Judgment of Das C. J. and523Venkatarama Aiyar J. was delivered by Das C. J. The Judgmentof S. K. Das and Vivian Bose JJ. was delivered by S. K.	 DasJ. Sarkar J. delivered a separate judgment.DAS C. J.-We agree that this appeal must be allowed in	partbut  we prefer to rest our judgment on one of  the  materialpoints	on a ground which is different from that adopted  byour  learned Brother S. K. Das J. in the judgment which	 hasjust  been  delivered  by  him and which  we  have  had	 theadvantage of perusing.The  Orissa  Sales  Tax	 Act, 1947  (Orissa  XIV  of  1947),hereinafter referred to as the said Act received the  assentof the Governor-General on April 26, 1947, when s. I of 'theAct came into force.  On August 1, 1947, a Notification	 wasissued by the Government of Orissa bringing the rest of	 thesaid  Act  into force in the Province of Orissa, as  it	 wasthen  constituted.   Section  4, as it stood  at  all  timesmaterial to this appeal, ran as follows:"  4(1) Subject to the provisions of sections 5, 6, 7 and  8and with effect from such date as the Provincial  Governmentmay,  by  notification in the Gazette,	appoint,  being	 notearlier	 than  thirty  days  after  the	 date  of  the	saidnotification,  every dealer whose gross turnover during	 theyear  immediately  preceding the commencement  of  this	 Actexceeded Rs. 5,000 shall be liable to pay tax under the	 Acton sales effected after the date so notified:Provided that the tax shall not be payable on sale  involvedin  the	 execution  of	a contract which  is  shown  to	 thesatisfaction  of the Collector to have been entered into  bythe dealer concerned on or before the date so notified.(2)Every dealer to whom subsection (1) does not apply  shallbe  liable  to pay tax under this Act with effect  from	 thecommencement  of the year immediately following that  duringwhich his gross turnover first exceeded Rs. 5,000.(3)Every dealer who has become liable to pay tax under	thisAct shall continue to be so liable until the expiry of threeconsecutive years, during each of524which his gross turnover has failed to exceed Rs. 5,000	 andsuch further period after the date of such expiry as may  beprescribed  and	 on  the expiry of this	 latter	 period	 hisliability to pay tax shall cease.(4)Every dealer whose liability to pay tax has ceased  underthe  provisions of sub-section (3) shall again be liable  topay tax under this Act with effect from the commencement  ofthe  year immediately following that during Which his  grossturnover again	exceeds Rs. 5,000."On  August  14,	 1947,	a notification	was  issued  by	 theGovernment  of Orissa appointing September 30, 1947, as	 thedate  with  effect from which that sub-section was  to	comeinto force in the then province of Orissa.On January 1, 1948, by a covenant of merger executed by	 itsruler,	the  feudatory State of Pallahara  merged  into	 theprovince of Orissa.  In exercise of the powers delegated  toit  by the Government of India under what was then known  asthe Extra Provincial Jurisdiction Act, 1947, the  Governmentof Orissa on December 14, 1948, issued a notification  unders.  4 of that Extra Provincial Jurisdiction  Act,  extendingthe Orissa Sales Tax Act to the territories of the erstwhilefeudatory States, including Pallahara which had merged	intothe  province of Orissa.  On March 1, 1949,  a	notificationunder  s.  1(3)	 was  issued by	 the  Government  of  Orissabringing ss. 2 to 29 of the said Act into force in the addedterritories.   On  the	same day  another  notification	 wasissued under s. 4(1) of the Act, which was in the  followingterms:In  exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-section  (1)  ofSection 4 of the Orissa Sales Tax Act, 1947 (Orissa Act	 XIVof  1947)  as  applied to Orissa State,	 the  Government  ofOrissa	are pleased to appoint the 31st March, 1949, as	 thedate  with  effect  from  which	 every	dealer	whose  grossturnover  during  the  year ending  the	 31st  March,  1949,exceeded Rs. 5,000 shall be liable to pay tax under the saidAct on sales effected after the said date."It  was	 after this notification had been. issued  that	 therespondents were sought to be made liable to tax.The respondents were assessed under the said Act525for five quarters ending respectively on September 30, 1949,December  31, 1949, June 30, 1950, September 30,  1950,	 andDecember  31, 1950.  It will be noticed that the  first	 twoquarters  related to a period prior to the  commencement  ofthe Constitution and the remaining three quarters fell afterthe  Constitution came into force.  The Sales  Tax  Officer,Cuttack	 having assessed the respondents to Sales Tax  underthe said Act for each and all of the said five quarters	 andthe  respondent's several appeals against the  said  severalassessment  orders under the said Act having been  dismissedon  April 12, 1952, the respondents filed a  petition  underArt.  226  of  the Constitution in  the	 Orissa	 High  Courtpraying,  inter alia, for a writ in the nature of a writ  ofcertiorari  for quashing the said assessment orders and	 forprohibiting  the  appellants  from  realising  the  tax	  soassessed or from making assessments on them in future.	 Thecontention of the respondents before the High Court was thatthe notification issued by the Government of Orissa on March1, 1949, under s. 4(1) being invalid in that it ran  counterto  the	 provisions  of that sub-section,  no  part  of	 thecharging section came into -force and consequently they werenot  liable to tax at all for any of the five quarters.	  Asregards the three quarters following the commencement of theConstitution,  they urged an additional plea,  namely,	thatthe assessment orders for those three quarters were  invalidby reason of the provisions of Art. 286 of the Constitution.The  High Court accepted both these contentions and  by	 itsjudgment  and order pronounced on April 12, 1955,  cancelledthe  assessments.  The Sales Tax Officer, Cuttack,  and	 theCollector  of  Commercial  Taxes.   Cuttack,  have  appealedagainst the judgment and order of the High Court.As  regards  the  assessment  orders  for  the	three  post'Constitution  quarters,	 the  decision	of  the	 High  Courtpurports to have proceeded on the decision of this Court  inthe  State of Bombay v. United Motors (India) Ltd. (1).	  Wefind ourselves in complete agreement with(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 1069.67526our  learned Brother S. K. Das J. for reasons stated by	 himthat  the assessment orders for the three post	Constitutionquarters were hit by cl. (1) of Art. 286 and also s. 30	 (1)(a)  (1) of the Act and were rightly held by the High  Courtto  be	without	 jurisdiction.	It is  with  regard  to	 theassessment orders for the two pre-Constitution quarters thatwe  have come to a conclusion different from that  to  whichour  learned Brother has arrived.  We proceed to  state	 ourreasons.The  impugned  notification,  as  hereinbefore	stated,	 wasissued	on  March 1, 1949, under s. 4 (1) of the  said	Act.Under  that  sub-section every dealer whose  gross  turnoverduring	the year immediately preceding the  commencement  ofthe  Act exceeded Rs. 5,000 would be liable to pay  the	 taxunder the Act on sales effected after the date " so notified", that is to say, the date which the provincial  Governmentmight by notification in the Gazette appoint.  It is  clear,therefore,  that  s. 4 (1) by its own terms  determined	 thepersons on whom the tax liability would fall but left it  tothe  provincial	 Government only to appoint  the  date	witheffect	from  which the tax liability  would  commence.	  Itfollows,  therefore, that the only 'power conferred by s.  4(1)  on the Government was to appoint, by a notification  inthe Official Gazette, a date with effect from which the	 taxliability   would  attach  to  the  dealers  described	 andspecified  in the sub-section itself as the persons on	whomthat liability would fall.  The Government of Orissa  issuedthe notification, hereinbefore quoted, " in exercise of	 thepowers	conferred  by  sub-section (1) of section  4  "	 andappointed March 31, 1949, as the date with effect from whichthe  tax  liability  would commence.  It  was  none  of	 thebusiness of the Government of Orissa to say on what class ofdealers	 the  tax liability would fall, for  that  had	beenalready	 determined by the sub-section itself Therefore,  bythe notification the Government of Orissa properly exercisedits powers under sub-s. (1) in so far as it appointed  March31,  1949,  as	the  date, but it  exceeded  its  powers  byproceeding  to	say that all dealers  whose  gross  turnoverduring the year ending		     527March  31, 1949, exceeded Rs. 5,000 should be liable to	 paytax  under the Act.  This part of the  notification  clearlyran  counter to the sub-section itself, for under that	sub-section	 it  is	 only those  dealers  whose  gross  turnoverexceeded  Rs. 5,000 " during the year immediately  precedingthe commencement of this Act " that became liable to pay thetax.  For the purposes of the five assessment orders it madeno difference whether the Act is taken to have commenced  onDecember  14,  1948, when it was extended to  the  feudatoryStates	by notification under s. 4 of the  Extra  ProvincialJurisdiction  Act,  1947,  or on March	1,  1949,  when	 thenotification  under s. 1 (3) was issued, for in either	casethe year immediately preceding the commencement of this	 Actwas  April  1,	1947,  to March	 31,  1948.   The  position,therefore,  is	that  by the earlier part  of  the  impugnednotification  the Government of Orissa properly and  rightlyexercised  its	power in appointing March 31, 1949,  as	 thedate  with effect from which the liability to pay tax  underthe Act would commence, but by its latter part did somethingmore  which  it had no business to do, i. e.,  to  indicate,contrary to the sub-section itself, that those dealers whosegross  turnover	 during the year ending on March  31,  1949,would be liable to pay tax under the Act.  The	notificationin  so far as it purports to determine the class of  dealerson whom the tax liability would fall, was certainly invalid.The  question that immediately arises is as to	whether	 thewhole  notification should be adjudged invalid as  has	beendone  by the High Court and as is proposed to be done by  mylearned	 Brother  S. K. Das J. or the two  portions  of	 thenotification should be severed and effect should be given tothe earlier part which is in conformity with s. 4(1) and thelatter	part which goes beyond the powers conferred  by	 thesubsection  to the Government of Orissa should be  rejected.Immediately  the question of severability arises.   Are	 thetwo  portions severable ? We find no difficulty	 in  holdingthat  the portion of the notification which went beyond	 thepowers	conferred  on  the Government  of  Orissa  is  quiteclearly and easily severable from that528which  was  within its powers.	It cannot possibly  be	saidthat had the Government of Orissa known that it had no powerto  determine  the persons on whom the tax  liability  wouldfall it would not have appointed a date at all.	 In our viewthere  is  no question of the two parts	 being	inextricablywound up.  We, therefore, hold that the notification, in  sofar as it appointed March 31, 1949, as the date with  effectfrom which liability to pay tax would commence was valid andthe rest of the notification was invalid and must be treatedas   surplus  without  any  legal  efficacy.   The   result,therefore,  is	that the charging  section  was	 effectivelybrought	 into force and the entire charging  section  becameoperative  and dealers could be properly brought  to  chargeunder the appropriate part of the charging section.It is true that the notification having also stated that thedealers,  whose	 gross turnover exceeded 5,000	(luring	 theyear ending March 31, 1949, would be liable to pay the	tax,the  sales tax authorities naturally applied their  mind  tothe question whether during the year ending March 31,  1949,the gross turnover of the respondents exceeded the requisiteamount,	 but did not inquire into the question	whether	 therespondent's  gross turnover exceeded Rs. 5,000	 during	 theyear immediately preceding the commencement of the Act whichin  this case was the financial year from April 1,  1947  toMarch  31, 1948.  If the matter stood there, it	 would	havebeen  necessary	 to  send the case back	 to  the  Sales	 TaxOfficer to enquire into and ascertain whether the quantum ofthe  gross  turnover  of the  respondents  during  the	lastmentioned financial year ending on March 31, 1948,  exceededRs.  5,000  or it did not.  But a remand is not	 called	 forbecause	 it appears from the judgment under appeal  that  itwas  conceded  that for the period April 1, 1949,  till	 thecommencement  of the Constitution on January 26,  1950,	 therespondents would have been liable to pay sales tax provideda valid notification had been issued, under sub-s. (1) of s.4. This concession clearly amounts to an admission that	 thegross turnover of the respondents during the financial529year   ending  on  March  31,  1948,  which  was  the	yearimmediately  preceding March 31, 1949, exceeded	 Rs.  5,000.We have already held that the notification' issued under  s.4(1)  in so far as it appointed March 31, 1949, as the	datewith effect from which the liability to pay sales tax  wouldcommence  was good and valid in law.  That  finding  coupledwith  the  concession mentioned above relieves us  from	 thenecessity   of	 remanding  the	 case  to  the	 sales	 taxauthorities.   Even if we assume, contrary to the  aforesaidconcession,  that  the	gross turnover	of  the	 respondentsduring the financial year ending on March 31, 1948, did	 notexceed	Rs. 5,000 and, therefore, s. 4 (1) did not apply  tothem  the respondents will still be liable to pay the  salestax for the two pre-Constitution quarters under s. 4 (2).For reasons stated above we hold that the assessment  ordersfor the three post-Constitution quarters were invalid and weaccordingly  agree  that  this appeal, in so far  as  it  isagainst	 that  part of the order of the	 -High	Court  whichcancelled  the	assessment  orders  for	 those	three  post-Constitution quarters, should be dismissed.  We further holdthat  the assessments for the two pre-Constitution  quarterswere valid for reasons stated above and accordingly we agreein allowing this appeal in so far as it is against that partof  the	 order	of  the	 High  Court  which  cancelled	 theassessment orders for the two pre-Constitution quarters	 Oilthe  ground that the notification issued under s. 4  (1)  ofthe Act was wholly invalid.  Under the circumstances of thiscase  we also agree that the parties should bear  their	 owncosts in the High Court as well as in this Court.S.   K.	 DAS  J.-This  appeal on  behalf  of  the  assessingauthorities, Cuttack, has been brought pursuant to an  ordermade  on  January 17, 1956, granting them special  leave  toappeal to this Court from the judgment and order of the HighCourt of Orissa dated April 12,1955, by which the High Courtquashed	 certain  orders  of assessment of  sales  tax	madeagainst the respondent.The short facts are these.  The respondent, Messrs.B.  C.Patel and Co., is a partnership firm carrying on530the  business of collection and sale of Kendu  leaves.	 Thefirm  has its headquarters at Pallahara, which was  formerlyone  of	 the Feudatory States of Orissa and merged  in	the.then province of Orissa by a merger agreement dated  January1,  1948.  The Sales Tax authorities, Cuttack, in the  Stateof  Orissa, assessed the respondent to sales tax in  respectof sales of Kendu leaves which took place for five  quartersending	on September 30, 1949, December 31, 1949,  June	 30,1950,  September 30, 1950 and December 31, 1950.  It  shouldbe  noted  that two of the aforesaid quarters related  to  aperiod	prior to the commencement of the  Constitution,	 andthe  remaining three quarters were  post-Constitution.	 Thefacts  which the Sales Tax authorities found were (I.)	thatthe  respondent	 collected Kendu leaves in Orissa  and	soldthem  to  various merchants of Calcutta,  Madras  and  otherplaces	on receipt of orders from them, (2) that  the  goodswere sent either f. o. r. Talcher or f. o. r. Calcutta,	 and(3) the sale price was realised by sending the bills to	 thepurchasers for payment.	 The admitted position was that	 thegoods were delivered for consumption at various places	out-side  the  State  of  Orissa.	The  Sales  Tax	 authoritiesproceeded  on the footing that all the sales took  place  inOrissa even though the goods were delivered for con sumptionat  places  outside  Orissa.  By  five	separate  assessmentorders	dated May 31, 1951, the Sales Tax Officer,  Cuttack,held  that  the	 sales having taken  place  in	Orissa,	 therespondent  was	 clearly liable to sales tax  for  the	pre-Constitution  period and, for the post-Constitution  period,though	the  sales came within cl. (2) of Art.	286  of	 theConstitution,  the respondent was liable to sales tax  underthe   Sales  Tax  Continuance  Order,  1950,  made  by	 thePresident.   These findings were affirmed by  the  AssistantCollector  of  Sales Tax, Orissa, on appeal,  by  his  orderdated April 12, 1952.  The respondent assessee then filed  apetition  under	 Art. 226 of the Constitution  in  the	HighCourt  of  Orissa  and prayed for the issue  of	 a  writ  ofcertiorari or other appropriate writ quashing the  aforesaidorders of assessment.  The case of the respondent before theHigh Court was that the assessment orders., both with531regard	 to  the  pre-Constitution   and   post-Constitutionperiods,  were invalid and without jurisdiction.   The	HighCourt accepted the case of the respondent and held that	 theassessment  orders  for the entire period were	invalid	 andwithout	 jurisdiction.	The present appeal has been  broughtfrom  the aforesaid judgment and order of the High Court  ofOrissa dated April 12, 1955.Though	before	the Sales Tax authorities and  in  the	HighCourt,	an  attempt  was made on behalf	 of  the  respondentassessee  to  show  that there were no	completed  sales  inOrissa and what took place in Orissa was a mere agreement tosell,  that question is no longer at large before  us.	 TheSales  Tax authorities found against the respondent on	thatquestion and the High Court did not consider it necessary todecide it on the petition filed by the respondent.  The HighCourt  proceeded on certain other grounds pressed before  itby  the	 respondent,  and we proceed  now  to  consider	 thevalidity  of those grounds.  The grounds are different ,  inrespect	 of  the two periods,  pre-Constitution,  and  post-Constitution,  and it will be convenient to take  these	 twoperiods separately.But  before  we do so, it is necessary to state	 some  factswith  regard to the enactment and enforcement of the  OrissaSales  Tax  Act,  1947 (Orissa	XlV  of	 1947),	 hereinafterreferred  to as the Act, in the old province of	 Orissa	 andthe  ex-Feudatory State of Pallahara.  The Act received	 theassent	of the Governor General on April 26, 1947,  and	 wasfirst  published  in  the Orissa  Gazette  on  May  14,1947.Section	 I  came into force at once in the old	province  ofOrissa	and sub-s. (3) of that section said that " the	restof  the	 Act  shall  come into force on	 such  date  as	 theProvincial  Government may, by notification in the  Gazette,appoint	 ".  The Provincial Government	of  Orissa  notifiedAugust 1, 1947, as the date on which the rest of the Act wasto come into force in the province of Orissa.  It is  neces-sary at this stage to refer to the charging section,  namelys.  4 of the Act, which is set out below as it stood at	 therelevant time:" 4. (1) Subject to the provisions of sections 5, 6, 7532and  8	and  with effect from such date	 as  the  ProvincialGovernment  may,  by notification in the  Gazette,  appoint,being  not  earlier than thirty days after the date  of	 thesaid notification, every dealer whose gross turnover  duringthe year immediately preceding the commencement of this	 Actexceeded Rs. 5,000 shall be liable to pay tax under the	 Acton sales effected after the date so notified.(2) Every dealer to whom subsection (1) does not apply shallbe  liable  to pay tax under this Act with effect  from	 thecommencement  of the year immediately following that  duringwhich his gross turnover first exceeded Rs. 5,000.(3)Every dealer who has become liable to pay tax under	thisAct shall continue to be so liable until the expire of threeconsecutive  years, during each of which his gross  turnoverhas failed to exceed Rs. 5,000 and such further period afterthe  date  of such expiry as may be prescribed	and  on	 theexpiry of this latter period his liability to pay tax  shallcease.(4)Every dealer whose liability to pay tax has ceased  underthe  provision of sub-section (3) shall again be  liable  topay tax under this Act with effect from the commencement  ofthe  year immediately following that during which his  grossturnover again exceeds Rs. 5,000."It is to be noticed that for a liability to arise under sub-s. (1) of s. 4, a notification by the Provincial  Governmentis  necessary, and the notification must fix the  date	fromwhich  every  dealer whose gross turnover  during  the	yearimmediately  preceding the commencement of the Act  exceededRs. 5,000 shall be liable to pay tax under the Act on  saleseffected  after the date so notified.  Such  a	notificationwas  issued  for the old province of Orissa  on	 August	 30,1947,  and  September 30,1947, was fixed as  the  date	witheffect	from which every dealer whose gross turnover  duringthe year ending March 31, 1947, exceeded Rs. 5,000 was	madeliable to pay tax under the Act on sales effected after	 thesaid  date.   This was the position in the old	province  ofOrissa.	 We have already stated that the533ex-Feudatory  State  of Pallahara was merged  into  the	 oldprovince  of Orissa by a merger agreement dated	 January  1,1948.  After the merger of Pallahara in the old province  ofOrissa,	 the  Government  of  Orissa  under  the   delegatedauthority  of  the  Central Government	and  exercising	 thepowers under s. 4 of the Extra Provincial Jurisdiction	Act,1947 (XLVII of 1947) (as it was then called) applied the Actto  the	 former	 Orissa	 States	 including  Pallahara  by  anotification dated December 14, 1948.  The only modificationmade  in  applying  the	 Act to the  Orissa  States  was  tosubstitute  the	 words	" Orissa States	 "for  the  words  "Province of Orissa ", wherever they occurred in the Act., Bymerely applying the Act to the Orissa States on December 14,1948,  all  sections of the Act did not come into  force  inthat area at once, since a notification under sub-s. (3)  ofs. 1 was necessary to bring into force ss. 2 to 29.  Such  anotification was issued on March 1, 1949.  The	notificationwas in these terms:" In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3)  ofsection 1 of the Orissa Sales Tax Act, 1947 (Orissa Act	 XIVof  1947),  as applied to Orissa States, the  Government  ofOrissa are pleased to appoint the 1st day of March, 1949, asthe  date  on which sections 2 to 29 of the said  Act  shallcome into force The position therefore was this.  Section  1of  the	 Act came into force in Pallahara  on  December	 14,1948, and the remaining sections came into force on March 1,1949, namely, those sections which dealt with the  liabilityof  a  dealer  to pay sales tax, set  tip  a  machinery	 forcollection  of	the  tax  and  dealt  with  other  ancillarymatters.   A notification under sub-s. (1) of s. 4 was	alsonecessary for a liability to arise under that sub-section inthe  said area, and such a notification was issued on  March1,  1949.  That notification must be quoted in full, as	 oneof  the	 points	 for our decision is  the  validity  of	 thenotification.  The notification read:" In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1)  ofsection	 4 of the Orissa Sales Tax.  Act, 1947	(Orissa	 ActXIV of 1947), as applied to Orissa States, the Government ofOrissa are pleased to68534appoint	 the 31st March, 1949, as the date with effect	fromwhich  every  dealer whose gross turnover  during  the	yearending	the  31st March, 1949, exceeded Rs. 5,000  shall  beliable to pay tax under the said Act on sales effected afterthe said date ".Two  other provisions of the Act must be referred  to  here.The word "dealer" is defined in s. 2(c) in these terms :"  'dealer' means any person who carries on the business  ofselling	  or   supplying  goods	 in  Orissa,   whether	 forcommission, remuneration or otherwise and includes any	firmor   a	Hindu  joint  family,  and  any	 society,  club	  orassociation which sells or supplies goods to its members; ".The  word  "  year  " is defined ins.  2(j)  and  means	 thefinancial year.Now,  with  regard to the pre-Constitution period  the	HighCourt has found that the notification under subs. (1) of  s.4  dated  March	 1, 1949, was an  invalid  notification	 andtherefore  the respondent was not liable to tax	 under	thatsubsection  in respect of the transactions which took  placein  the	 pre-Constitution period.  The reason why  the	HighCourt has held that the notification in question was invalidmust  now be stated.  The scheme of sub-s. (1) of s.  4	 is,firstly,  to fix a date, not earlier than thirty days  afterthe date of the notification, from which the liability is tocommence;  and,	 secondly, to impose a liability  on,  everydealer	whose  gross turnover during  the  year	 immediatelypreceding  the commencement of the Act exceeded	 Rs.  5,000.The  tax  liability is on transactions of  sale	 which	takeplace  after  the notified date (which must  necessarily  beafter  the commencement of the Act); but in  determining  onwhich class of dealers, the incidence of taxation will fall,the crucial period as mentioned in the sub-section itself isthe year immediately preceding the commencement of the	Act.Therefore, the subsection contemplates two. matters, one  ofwhich  may  be	called the 'relevant date',  and  the  other'relevant period'.  So far as the old province of Orissa wasconcerned, there was no difficulty.  The notification  fixedSeptember  30,	1947,  as the relevant date,  and  the	yearimmediately preceding535the  commencement of the Act in the old province  of  Orissawas  the relevant period, viz., the financial year  1946-47,i.  e., April 1, 1946 to March 31, 1947.  Therefore  dealerswhose  gross turnover exceeded Rs. 5,000 in 1946-47,  becameliable	under sub-s. (1) of S. 4 to tax on  transactions  ofsale  after  September	30, 1947, in  the  old	province  ofOrissa.	  The notification for the Orissa  States,  however,fixed  March  31,  1949,  as the  relevant  date  ;  but  indetermining the class of dealers who would be subject to theliability,  it took the year ending March 31, 1949,  as	 therelevant period.  This was clearly a mistake, because  undersub-s. (1) of S. 4 the crucial year is the year	 immediatelypreceding the commencement of the Act.	The Act commenced inthe  Orissa States either on December 14, 1948, or on  March1,  1949, and the financial year immediately  preceding	 wasthe  year 1947-48, i. e., April 1, 1947 to March  31,  1948.The  notification  would have been in  consonance  with	 thesubsection,  if it had mentioned the year ending  March	 31,1948,  (instead of March 31, 1949) as the crucial  year	 fordetermining the class of dealers who would be subject to theliability  under  sub-s. (1) of S. 4. This  mistake  in	 thenotification is the ground on which the High Court held thatthe assessments for the two quarters of the pre-Constitutionperiod were invalid and without jurisdiction.The  learned  Solicitor-General	 who has  appeared  for	 theappellants  has	 conceded  that a mistake was  made  in	 thenotification.	However,  lie has argued-firstly,  that	 themistake	 was  immaterial and secondly, that  the  assessmentorders for the pre-Constitution period were justified  undersub-s.	(2)  of	 s: 4. As to the  first	 argument  that	 themistake was immaterial, he has submitted that the  liabilityto  tax	 arose	tinder the sub-section	and  not  under	 thenotification,  and any mistake in the notification  did	 notaffect such liability; lie has also submitted that the wordsand  figures  which  gave  rise to  the	 mistake  were	meresurplusage  and	 could	be  severed from  the  rest  of	 thenotification.  We are unable to accept this argument.  For aliability to arise under sub-S. (1) of S. 47 the issue of a;536notification  is an essential prerequisite, and	 unless	 thenotification   complies	  with	the  requirements   of	 thesubsection,  no	 liability to tax can arise under  it.	 Thenotification not only fixed the relevant date, but fixed therelevant  period  for determining the class of	dealers	 whowould  be subject to the liability.  In doing so, it made  amistake,  the result of which was that the notification	 wasnot in conformity with the law.	 We do not think that it canbe  severed  in the way suggested by the  learned  SolicitorGeneral.Now,  we  come	to  the second	argument  whether  the	pre-Constitution  assessment orders are justified  under  sub-s.(2)  of	 s. 4. The High Court held that they were  not,	 andgave two reasons for its view: one was that, subsections (1)and  (2) were mutually exclusive and the other was based  onthe  opening  words of sub-s. (2), which says that  "  everydealer to whom sub-section (1) does not apply etc." The HighCourt expressed the view that if the notification under sub-s.  (1) were correctly drawn up, the subsection	 would	haveapplied to the respondent ; therefore, the opening words  ofsub-s. (2) barred the application of the sub-section to	 therespondent.  At first sight, there appears to be some  forcein  this view.	But on a closer examination we do not  thinkthat the view expressed by the High Court is correct.	Sub-sections  (1)  and (2) are mutually, exclusive only  in	 thesense that they do not operate in the same field ; that	 is,the  relevant periods for their application  are  different.The  relevant period for the application of sub-s. (1) is  "the year immediately preceding the commencement of the Act."Sub-section  (2) however does not require any  notification,and under it every dealer is liable to pay tax under the Actwith  effect from the commencement of the  year	 immediatelyfollowing  that	 during	 which	his  gross  turnover   firstexceeded Rs. 5,000.  Obviously, the relevant period for	 theapplication of sub-s. (2) is the year immediately  followingthat  during  which  the gross turnover of  a  dealer  firstexceeded   Rs.	 5,000.	  The  contrast	 between   the	 twosubsections is this: for sub-s. (1) the crucial year is	 theyear immediately preceding the commencement of537the,  Act; but for sub-s. (2) the crucial, year is the	yearin  which  the dealer's gross turnover	first  exceeded	 Rs.5,000.	 We agree that for the same relevant year both	sub-sections (1) and (2) cannot apply, because sub-s. (2) says-"Every dealer to whom subs. (1) does not apply etc." Let	 us,for  example, take the year 1946-47 in the old	province  ofOrissa.	  That	was  the  year	immediately  preceding	 thecommencement of the Act in that area, and sub-s. (1) appliedto  all	 dealers whose gross turnover  exceeded	 Rs.  5,000,first  or otherwise, in that year; sub-s. (2) did not  applyto  such dealers even if their gross turnover  exceeded	 Rs.5,000 for the first time, in that year; because where sub-s.(1)  applies,  sub-s. (2) does not apply.  But what  is	 thecase   before  us?   The  year	immediately  preceding thecommencement  of the Act in the Pallahara area was  1947-48,and  sub-s. (1) would have applied to the respondent if	 thenotification  had mentioned that year.	But it did not,	 andthe  result  was that it was not necessary to  find  if	 therespondent's  gross turnover exceeded Rs. 5,000 in  1947-48.What  was  found was that the  respondent's  gross  turnoverexceeded  Rs.  5,000 in 1948-49, that is,  the	year  endingMarch  31,,  1949,  which  was	not  the  year	 immediatelypreceding the commencement of the Act in the Pallahara area.Obviously,  therefore,	sub-s.	(1) did	 not  apply  to	 therespondent;  but he clearly came under sub-s. (2).  The	 Actcame  into force in the Orissa States on March 1, 1949.	  ByMarch  31, 1949, the respondent's - gross turnover  exceededRs. 5,000.  He was, therefore, liable to pay tax under	sub-s.  (2	)  with effect from the	 commencement  of  the	yearimmediately following March 31, 1949, that is, from April 1,1949.	It has been argued for the respondent that the	word`first' in sub-s. (2) means ` first' after the	commencementof  the	 Act.  Assuming this to be correct,  the  respondentstill  comes under sub-s. (2)  because even if the Act	cameinto force on March 1, 1949, the respondent's gross turnoverfirst  exceeded Rs. 5,000 in the year ending March 31,	1949which was after the commencement of the Act.538We are, therefore, of the view that all the requirements  ofsub-s.	(2)  are  fulfilled  in	 this  case,  and  the	 twoassessment  orders made against the respondent for the	pre-Constitution period were validly made under sub-s. (2) of s.4 of the Act.  The effect of the invalid notification  undersub-s.	(1) was that there was no liability thereunder,	 andno  dealers were liable to pay tax under  that	sub-section.But  that  did not mean that any dealer	 who  properly	cameunder  sub-s.  (2) was free to escape his liability  to	 paytax.   Surely,	the position cannot be worse  than  what  itwould  have been if the Provincial Government had failed  toissue a, notification under sub-s. (1).We  now	 turn to the post-Constitution	period.	  The  shortground	on which the High Court held the  assessment  ordersfor  this period to be invalid was based on the decision  ofthis  Court  in	 The State of Bombay v.	 The  United  Motors(India) Ltd. (1)  Said the High Court:" Clause (1) of Article 286 prohibited a State from taxing asale  unless  such  sale  took place  within  the  State  asexplained  in the Explanation to the clause of the  Article.Similarly,  clause (2) of that Article restricted the  powerof a State to tax a sale which took place  in the course  ofinter-State trade or commerce'.	 Doubtless, by virtue of theproviso	 to that clause an Order by the President  may	savetaxation  on  such inter-State sales till  the	31st  March,1951.  The recent S.C. p. 252 hap, settled the law regardingthe true scope of these two clauses of the Article.  Where atransaction  of	 sale involves inter-State elements  if	 thegoods  are delivered for consumption in a  particular  Statethat State alone can tax the sale by virtue of clause (1) ofthat  Article  and  by a legal	fiction	 that  sale  becomes`intra-State  sale'.  Clause (2) of Article 286	 applies  tothose  transactions of sale involving  inter-State  elementswhich  do  not come within the scope of clause (1)  of	thatArticle.  On the admitted facts of the present case,  clause(1)  of Article 286 would apply.  The sales  involve  inter-State  elements inasmuch as the buyers are  outside  Orissa,price is paid outside Orissa and(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 1069.539goods are delivered for consumption outside Orissa.   Hence,by virtue of clause (1) of Article 286 as explained by theirLordships  of the Supreme Court, the State of Orissa is	 notcompetent to tax such transactions of sale."The  learned Solicitor General has rightly pointed out	thatin  a  later decision of this Court in The  Bengal  ImmunityCompany Limited v. The State of Bihar and Others (1),  whichwas,  not available to the High Court when it delivered	 itsjudgment, the view expressed in the United Motors, case	 (2)was  departed  from in so far as the earlier  decision	heldthat cl. (2) of Art. 286 of the Constitution did not  affectthe  power of the State in which delivery of goods was	madeto tax inter-State sales or purchases of the kind  mentionedin  the Explanation to cl. (1) and the effect of the  Expla-nation	was that such transactions were saved from  the	 banimposed	 by  Art. 286 (2).  The learned	 Solicitor  General,therefore, contends that on the basis of the later decision,the  assessments made should be held to be valid  under	 theSales  Tax  Continuance Order 1950, made by  the  President,even  though the sales took place in course  of	 inter-Statetrade or commerce.It is necessary to state here that by the Adaptation of Laws(Third	Amendment)  Order, 1951, made by  the  President  inexercise  of the power given by cl. (2) of Art. 372  of	 theConstitution, s. 30 was inserted in the Act to bring it intoaccord	with  the  Constitution,  from	January	 26,   1950.Section	 30  which in substance reproduced Art. 286  of	 theConstitution, as it then stood, was in these terms-"  30. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this  Act--(a)  a tax on sale or purchase of goods shall not be imposedunder this Act,(i)  where  such sale or purchase takes	 place	outside	 theState of Orissa; or(ii) where such sale or purchase takes place, in the  courseof import of the goods into, or export of the goods out	 of,the territory of India;(b) a tax on the sale or purchase of any goods(1) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.     (2) [1953] S.C.R. 1069.540shall  not,  after the 31st day of March, 1951,	 be  imposedwhere  such  sale or purchase takes place in the  course  ofinter-State trade or commerce except in so far as Parliamentmay by law otherwise provide.(2)  The  explanation  to clause (1) of Article 286  of	 theConstitution  shall  apply for the  interpretation  of	sub-clause	(i) of clause (a) of sub-section (1). We are of	 theview  that the Bengal Immunity decision (1) does not  reallyhelp   the  learned  Solicitor-General	to   establish	 hiscontention  that the assessments for  the  post-Constitutionperiod were valid.  The admitted position was that the goodssold  were  delivered  for  consumption	 at  various  placesoutside	 the State of Orissa.  Therefore, under cl. (1)	 (a)of Art. 286 read with the Explanation as also under s. 30 ofthe Act, the sales were outside Orissa.	 It is true that theBengal Immunity decision (1) took a view different from thatof  the	 earlier decision in so far as it held	that  inter-State sales were converted into intra-State sales by the Ex-planation;  but it -was pointed out that the  States'  powerwith  respect to a sale or purchase might be hit by  one  ormore of the bans imposed by Art. 286.  With reference to thedifferent  clauses  of	Art. 286, it  was  observed  in	 themajority judgment of the Bengal Immunity decision(1):" These several bans may overlap in some cases but in  theirrespective  scope  and	operation  they	 are  separate	 andindependent.   They deal with different phases of a sale  orpurchase  but, nevertheless, they are distinct and  one	 hasnothing	 to  do with and is not dependent on  the  other  orothers.	  The  States' legislative power with respect  to  asale  or purchase may be, hit by one or more of these  bans.Thus,  take  the  case	of  a  sale  of	 goods	declared  byParliament  as	essential by a smaller in West Bengal  to  apurchaser in Bihar in which goods are actually delivered  asa direct result of such sale for consumption in the State-ofBihar.	A law made by West Bengal without the assent of	 thePresident taxing this sale will be unconstitutional  because(1) it will offend Article 286 (1) (a) as the gale has takenplace outside the territory by virtue of the(1)  [1935] 2 S.C.R. 603.541Explanation  to	 clause	 (1) (a), (2) it  will	also  offendArticle 286 (2) as the sale has taken place in the course ofinter-State  trade or commerce and (3)such law will also  becontrary  to  Article  286 (3) as the  goods  are  essentialcommodities  and the President's assent to the law  was	 notobtained  as  required by clause (3) of Article	 286.	Thisappears	 to  us to be the general scheme of  that  article."(see pp. 638-639 of the report).At p. 647 of the- report, it was further observed--"  The operative provisions of the several parts of  Article286, namely, clause (1) (a), clause (1) (b), clause (2)	 andclause	(3) are manifestly intended to deal  with  differenttopics and, therefore, one cannot be projected or read	intoanother.   On  a careful and anxious  consideration  of	 thematter	in  the light of the fresh  arguments  advanced	 anddiscussions held oil the present occasion we are  definitelyof the opinion that the Explanation in clause (1) (a) cannotbe  legitimately  extended  to	clause	(2)  either  as	  anexception  or as a proviso thereto or read as curtailing  orlimiting the ambit of clause (2)."As to the President's order, it was stated at p. 656:" It will be noticed that under that proviso the President'sorder  was  to	take  effect  "	 notwithstanding  that	 theimposition of such tax is contrary to the provisions of thisclause	".  This  non obstante clause does  not,  in  terms,supersede clause (1) at all and, therefore, prima facie, thePresident's  order was subject to the prohibition of  clause(1) (a) read with the Explanation.  "Obviously, therefore, even on the Bengal Immunity  decision.(1) the assessments for the post-Constitution period in thiscase  were hit by cl. (1) (a) of Art. 286 as also s. 30	 (1)(a)  (i)  of  the Act and were rightly held  to	 be  withoutjurisdiction.The  result,  therefore,  is that in our  view	this  appealshould succeed in part, as we hold that the assessments	 forthe -two quarters of the pre-Constitution period were  validunder sub-s. (2) of s. 4 of the Act and the(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.69542assessments  for the post-Constitution period were  invalid.In  view  of the divided success of the parties	 we  furtherthink  that  they should bear their own costs  in  the	HighCourt and in this Court.SARKAR	J.-The respondents are a firm of merchants  carryingon  business  in  a part of the State of  Orissa  which	 wasformerly  the feudatory State of Pallahara.  This  State  ofPallahara  had	merged in the Province of  Orissa  under  anagreement  with	 the Government of India, dated	 January  1,1948.  On December 14, 1948, the Government of Orissa  underthe  powers  conferred	by  s. 4  of  the  Extra  ProvincialJurisdiction  Act,  1947,  and with the	 permission  of	 theGovernment  of	India, issued a	 Notification  applying	 theOrissa	Sales Tax Act, 1947 (Orissa XIV of 1947), passed  bythe  Legislature  of Orissa, to the areas  which  previouslyconstituted  the feudatory States including Pallahara,	thenmerged	in Orissa.  The respondents were assessed  to  salestax  under  this Act in respect of their  sales	 which	tookplace during five quarters between July 1, 1949 and December31, 1950.  They had appealed under the provisions of the Actto   higher   authorities  from	 the  original	 orders	  ofassessment, but were unsuccessful.  They then applied to theHigh  Court  of Orissa on November 11. 1952, for  an  appro-priate	writ directing the Sales Tax Officer  the  assessingauthority and one of the appellants herein, to refrain	fromrealizing  the tax or from giving effect to  the  assessmentorders in any manner whatsoever and quashing such orders andalso   prohibiting  future  assessment.	  By  its   judgmentdelivered  on  April 12, 1955, the High	 Court	allowed	 thepetition  and  cancelled the assessment orders.	  From	thatjudgment the present appeal has come to this Court.The  question that I propose to discuss in this judgment  iswhether	 the  respondents are liable to pay  tax  under	 theprovisions of the Act in the circumstances which existed  inthis  case and to which, I shall refer a little later.	 Thesections  of  the Act under which the tax is  sought  to  belevied are set out below:S.1. (1) This Act may be called the Orissa Sales Tax Act,1947.543(2) It extends to the whole of the Province of Orissa.(3)This	 section shall come into force at once and the	restof  this  Act  shall come into force on	 such  date  as	 theProvincial  Government may, by notification in the  Gazette,appoint.S.2.  In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant  inthe subject or context,-(j)  " year " means the financial year.S.   4. (1) Subject to the provisions of sections 5,6, 7 and 8 and with effect from such date as the  ProvincialGovernment  may,  by notification in the  Gazette,  appoint,being  not  earlier than thirty days after the date  of	 thesaid notification, every dealer whose gross turnover  duringthe year immediately preceding the commencement of this	 Actexceeded Rs. 5,000 shall be liable to pay tax under the	 Acton sales effected after the date so notified:Provided that the tax shall not be payable on sale  involvedin  the	 execution  of	a contract which  is  shown  to	 thesatisfaction  of the Collector to have been entered into  bythe dealer concerned on or before the date so notified.(2)Every dealer to whom sub-section (1) does not apply shallbe  liable  to pay tax under this Act with effect  from	 thecommencement  of the year immediately following that  duringwhich his gross turnover first exceeded Rs. 5,000.(3)Every dealer who has become liable to pay tax under	thisAct shall continue to be so liable until the expiry of threeconsecutive  years, during each of which his gross  turnoverhas failed to exceed Rs. 5,000 and such further period afterthe  date  of such expiry as may be prescribed	and  on	 theexpiry of this latter period his liability to pay tax  shallcease.(4)Every dealer whose liability to pay tax has ceased  underthe  provisions of sub-section (3) shall again be liable  topay tax under this Act with effect from the commencement  ofthe  year immediately following that during which his  grossturnover again exceeds Rs. 5,000.544It  is conceded that the respondents are dealers within	 themeaning of the Act.  The term " turnover " is defined in theAct but for the purpose of this judgment it can be taken  inits  popular sense.  It is also unnecessary to consider	 ss.5, 6, 7 and 8 of the Act, for nothing turns on them in	thisappeal.Section	 I of the Act came into force in the Pallahara	areaon December 14, 1948, by virtue of the notification of	thatdate  mentioned earlier.  Oil March 1, 1949, the  Governmentof  Orissa issued under s. 1 (3) of the Act a  notification,being  Notification No. 2267/F appointing that date  as	 thedate on which the, rest of the Act would come into force  inthe  Pallahara	area.  It is not in dispute  that  March  1,1949,  has to be considered as the date of the	commencementof the Act in the Pallahara area.  That is the result of thedefinition  of the commencement of an Act given in s. 2	 (8)of the Orissa General Clauses Act, 1937.  As will have	beennoticed s. 4 (1) of the Act required a date to be  appointedbefore liability under it could arise.	Such a date had beenappointed  by  the Government of Orissa before the  Act	 wasapplied	 to the areas previously belonging to the  feudatoryStates	and the Government felt that this appointment  of  adate would not be an appointment for these areas.  The	casebefore	us has proceeded oil the basis that appointment	 wasnot a proper appointment under this section for these areas.In  fact,  the Government of Orissa had oil March  1,  1949,issued	a Notification No. 2269/F, purporting to  appoint  adate under s. 4 (1) for the areas previously covered by	 thefeudatory States including the Pallahara State, then  mergedin Orissa.  That Notification is in these terms:In  exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section  (1)  ofSection 4 of the Orissa ,Sales Tax Act, 1947 (Orissa Act XIVof  1947),  as applied to Orissa States, the  Government  ofOrissa are pleased to appoint the. 31st March, 1949, as	 thedate  with  effect  from  which	 every	dealer	whose  grossturnover  during  the  year ending  the	 31st  March,  1949,exceeded Rs. 5,000 shall be liable to pay tax under the saidAct on sales effected after the said date.601might have retired from the contest on a re-appraisement  ofhis prospects at the election as compared with those of	 thedeceased  contesting  candidate.  When	death  removed	thatcontesting candidate from the field, a person who had  givennotice	of retirement from the contest as aforesaid  may  aswell re-consider his position and feel that as compared withthe other surviving candidates he -would have fair prospectsof success at the election and if an election is held  afterthe countermanding of the poll by the returning officer,  hemight  just  as well put forward his candidature and  it  isprovided  that in that event he shall not be ineligible	 forbeing  nominated  as  a candidate for  election	 after	suchcountermanding ; and there is perfectly good reason for	 thesame,  because	otherwise, withdrawal  or  retirement  mightpossibly be considered a disqualification or refusal to seekelection.This  brings  us to the provisions as  to  retirement  frontcontest under s. 55A.  A candidate might not have  withdrawnhis  candidature within the period prescribed and  his	namemight	have  been  included  in  the  list  of	  contestingcandidates  published by the returning officer under s.	 38.Being  thus a contesting candidate duly declared as such  hewould be entitled to go to the poll.  He may, however, as  aresult	of  the	 election  campaign  find  himself  in	 thepredicament  that his prospects at the election	 are  meagreand  he might even have to face the situation of  having  toforfeit his security deposit if he went to the poll.   Theremay be a number of motives operating in his mind which it isnot  necessary to discuss and be may just as  well  withdrawhis  candidature  and  retire  from  the  field.   A   locuspoenitentiae  is  therefore  given to him under	 s.  55A  toretire	from the contest by giving notice in the  prescribedform  which has to be delivered to the returning officer  onany  day not later than 10 days prior to the date fixed	 forthe poll.  If a candidate thus retires from the contest,  hedecides	 not to go to the poll and the provision is made  inthe  rules  for	 the correction of the	list  of  contestingcandidates  so	that  no elector shall	in  the	 absence  ofnecessary information waste his vote upon him.	A602copy  of  such	notice is to be	 affixed  by  the  returningofficer	 to  his notice board and in  -the  polling  station"and  each  of the remaining, contesting candidates  or	 hisagent  is to be supplied with such copy and the	 notice	 hasalso got to be published in the official gazette.Such  retirement from contest might result in the number  ofremaining contesting candidates becoming equal to the numberof seats to be filled and s. 55A (6) and (7) work  out	 thesituation as it would then obtain with	reference to ss.  53and 54 and provide that in that event the returning  officeris to forth with declare such candidates to be duly  electedto  fill  those	 seats	and countermand	 the  poll  a  freshelection  being necessary only in the event of	filling	 theremaining seat or seats, if' any.If, however, a poll has to be taken under s. 53(1) in  spiteof  the retirement of a contesting candidate  or  candidatesfrom contest is aforesaid the process of election  continuesin spite of such retirement and the question any arise as towhat  would happen if any of the contesting  candidates	 whohas  thus retired dies before the commencement of the  poll.If  there  was	nothing	 more, s. 52  would  apply  and	 thereturning  officer upon being satisfied of the fact  of	 thedeath  of the candidate Would have to countermand  the	polland report the fact to the Election.  Commission and also tothe  appropriate authority.  Provision is therefore made  ins.  55A	 (5)  that  any person who has	given  a  notice  ofretirement under s. 55A (2) is deemed not to be a contestingcandidate  for	the purposes of s. 52.	This  is  a  deemingprovision and creates a legal fiction.	The effect of such alegal  fiction	however is that a position  which  otherwisewould	not   obtain  is  deemed  to  obtain   under   thosecircumstances.	Unless a contesting, candidate who had	thusretired	 from  the  contest continued  to  be  a  contestingcandidate for the purposes of election and the effect of thedeath of such contesting (Candidate was " contemplated in s.52,  it would not have been found necessary to enact s.	 55A(5).  It is because such a contesting, candidate who retiresfrom the603contest	 under	s.  55A (2) continues to  be  a.  contestingcandidate  for	the purposes of election that  it  has	beenconsidered  necessary to provide for the consequence of	 hisdeath  and to exclude such a candidate from the category  ofcontesting candidates within the meaning of the term as usedin  s. 38 of' the Act, that is to say, candidates  who	wereincluded in the list of validly nominated candidates and whohad  not  with	drawn their candidature	 within	 the  periodprescribed  and	 who  had  been included  in  the  list	 of'candidates prepared and published by the returning,  officerin   the  manner  prescribed.	This  provision,   thereforewarrants  the conclusion that a contesting  candidate  whosename  was included in the list under s. 38 but	who  retiresfrom  the  contest  under  s. 55A  (2)	continues  to  be  acontesting  candidate for the purpose of the Act  though  byreason	of such retirement it would be unnecessary  for	 theconstituency  to cast its votes in his favour at  the  poll.Such candidate continues to be contesting candidate for	 thepurposes of the Act, notwithstanding his retirement from thecontest under s. 55A (2). When  we  come	 to the provisions of Part  VI	of  the	 Actrelating to disputes regarding election, we find that  thereis  no	definition  given  in s.  79  of  the  expression  "contesting  candidate ", though there are definitions  of  "candidate " and " returned candidate " to be found  therein.An election petition calling in question any election can bepresented  by any candidate at such election or any  electoron one, or more of the grounds specified in ss. 100 (1)	 and101 to the Election Commission and a petitioner in  additionto  calling  in	 question  the	election  of  the   returnedcandidate,  or	candidates may further claim  a	 declarationthat  he  himself  or  any other  candidate  has  been	dulyelected.    Where   the	 petitioner  claims   such   furtherdeclaration, he must join as respondents to his petition allthe contesting candidates other than the petitioner and alsoany other candidate against whom allegations of any  corruptpractices are made in the petition.  The words " other	thanthe petitioner " are meant to exclude the petitioner when hehappens to be one of604the contesting candidates who has been defeated at the pollsand would not apply where the petition is filed for instanceby an elector.	An elector filing such a petition would haveto  join  all  the contesting candidates  whose	 names	wereincluded  in the list of contesting candidates prepared	 andpublished by the returning officer in the manner  prescribedunder s. 38, that is to say, candidates who were included inthe  list  of validly nominated candidates and who  had	 notwithdrawn  their candidature within the	 period	 prescribed.Such  contesting  candidates  will  have  to  be  joined  asrespondents  to such petition irrespective of the fact	thatone  or more of them had retired from the contest tinder  s.55A  (2).  If the provisions of s. 82 which  prescribes	 whoshall  be  joined  as respondents to the  petition  are	 notcomplied with, the Election Commission is enjoined under  s.85  of the Act to dismiss the petition and similar  are	 theconsequences of noncompliance with the provisions of s.	 117relating  to deposit of security of costs.  If the  ElectionCommission however does not do so and accepts the  petition,it  has to cause a copy of the petition to be  published  inthe official gazette and a copy thereof to be served by poston each of the respondents and then refer the petition to anelection  tribunal  for	 trial.	 Section  90  (3)  similarlyenjoins	 the  Election	Tribunal  to  dismiss  an   electionpetition which does not comply with the provisions of s.  82or s. 117 notwithstanding that it has not been dismissed  bythe  Election  Commission under s. 85.	Section	 90  (3)  ismandatory and the Election Tribunal is bound to dismiss sucha  petition  if	 an application is made before	it  for	 thepurpose.Turning	 now  to  s. 117, we find that	it  is	a  provisionrelating  to  the deposit of security for the costs  of	 thepetition.   When a petitioner presents an election  petitionto the Election Commission under s. 81 he is to enclose withthe  petition a Government Treasury receipt showing  that  adeposit	 of one thousand rupees has been made by him  eitherin a Government Treasury or in the Reserve Bank of India  infavour	of  the	 Secretary to  the  Election  Commission  assecurity605for  the  costs of the petition.   The	Government  Treasuryreceipt	 must show that such deposit has been actually	madeby  him	 either in a Government Treasury or in	the  ReserveBank of India; it must also show that it has been so made infavour	of the Secretary to the Election Commission  and  itmust further show that it has been made as security for	 thecosts of the petition.	These are the three requirements  ofthe  section  which  have to be	 fulfilled.   The  question,however,  arises  whether  the	words "	 in  favour  of	 theSecretary  to  the Election Commission "  are  mandatory  incharacter so that if the deposit has not been made in favourof  the	 Secretary  to the Election  Commission	 as  thereinspecified  the	deposit	 even though made  in  a  GovernmentTreasury or in the Reserve Bank of India and as security forthe costs of the petition would be invalid and of no  avail.If, for instance, the petitioner made the deposit either  ina  Government  Treasury or in the Reserve Bank of  India  infavour	of  the Election Commission itself  and	 obtained  aGovernment Treasury receipt in regard to the same, could  itbe  contended  that in spite of such a deposit	having	beenmade,  the  said  Government Treasury  receipt	was  not  inconformity   with  the	requirements  of  s.  117  and	 thepetitioner  could  be  said not to have	 complied  with	 therequirements  of that section so as -to involve a  dismissalof his petition under s. 85 or s. 90 (3) ?The extreme case illustrated above has been taken by us onlyin order to demonstrate to what lengths a literal compliancewith  the provisions of s. 117 can be pushed.  The  petitionis to be presented to the Election Commission, the  securityfor  the  costs	 of  the petition has to  be  given  to	 theElection  Commission and s. 121 provides for an	 applicationto be made in writing to the Election Commission for paymentof  costs by the person in whose favour the costs have	beenawarded and yet, even though the deposit may have been	madeby  a petitioner in favour of the Election Commission and  aGovernment Treasury receipt evidencing the same be  enclosedalong with his77606petition the provisions of s. 117 of the Act can be said notto  have been complied with merely because the	deposit	 wasmade in favour of the Election Commission and not in  favourof   the   Secretary  to  the  Election	  Commission.	 Therelationship between the Election Commission on the one handand  the Secretary to the Election Commission on  the  otherneed not be scrutinized for the purposes of negativing	thiscontention.  It is enough to say that such a contention	 hasonly got to be stated in order to be negatived.	 It would beabsurd to imagine that a deposit made either in a GovernmentTreasury  or in the Reserve Bank of India in favour  of	 theElection   Commission	itself	would  not   be	  sufficientcompliance with the provisions of s. 117 and would involve adismissal  of  the petition under s. 85 or s. 90  (3).	 Theabove  illustration  is sufficient to demonstrate  that	 thewords  "  in  favour  of  the  Secretary  to  the   ElectionCommission " used in s. 117 are directory and not  mandatoryin their character.  What is of the essence of the provisioncontained  in s. 11.7 is that the petitioner should  furnishsecurity  for the costs of the petition, and should  enclosealong  with  the  petition a  (Government  Treasury  receiptshowing that a deposit of one thousand rupees has been	madeby  him	 either in a Government Treasury or in	the  ReserveBank of India, is at the disposal of the Election Commissionto be utilised by it in the manner authorised by law and  isunder its control and payable on a proper application  beingmade  in  that behalf to the Election Commission or  to	 anyperson duly authorised by it to receive the same, be he	 theSecretary to the Election commission or any one else.If,  therefore	it can be shown by evidence led	 before	 theElection  Tribunal that the government Treasury	 receipt  orthe chalan which was obtained by the petitioner and enclosedby  him	 along with his petition presented to  the  ElectionCommission was such that the Election Commission could on  anecessary  application	in that behalf be in a	position  torealise	 the said sum of rupees one thousand for payment  ofthe  costs  to the successful party it would  be  sufficientcompliance			    607with the requirements of s. 117.  No such literal compliancewith  the  terms  of  s. 117 is	 at,  all  necessary  as  iscontended for on behalf of the appellant before us.As  regards  the  amendment of a petition  by  deleting	 theaverments  and	the prayer regarding  the  declaration	thateither	the petitioner or an other candidate has been.	dulyelected,  so  as  to cure lie defect of	 nonjoinder  of	 thenecessary  parties as respondents, we may only refer to	 ourjudgment  * about Io be delivered in Civil Appeal No. 76  of1958,  where  the  question  is	 discussed  at	considerablelength.	  Suffice it to say here that the Election  Tribunalhas  no	 power to grant such an amendment, be it by  way  ofwithdrawal  or	abandonment  of	 a  part  of  the  claim  orotherwise, once, an Election Petition has been presented  tothe Election (commission claiming such further declaration.Considering Civil Appeal No. 763 of 1957 in the light of theobservations  made  above, we find that	 sundararaja  Pillaiwhose name was included in the list of contesting candidatesprepared and published by the returning officer under s.  38but who retired from the contest under s. 55A (2) before thecommencement  of the poll was included in the  expression  "contesting  candidate " used in s. 82 and was by  reason  ofthe first respondent claiming a further declaration that thesecond	respondent had been duly elected, a necessary  partyto  the	 petition.   Inasmuch  as he was  not  joined  as  arespondent, the petition was liable to be dismissed under s.90(3) of the Act.This  defect  could  not be cured by any  amendment  of	 thepetition  seeking  to  delete the  claim  for  such  furtherdeclaration  and the Election Tribunal was clearly in  errorin allowing such amendment on the grounds disclosed in 1. A.No. 3 of 1957 or otherwise.In regard to the deposit of security, however, the  positionwas quite different.  According to the evidence given by  K.Nataraja Mudaliar, head accountant in. charge of the MaduraiTaluk  sub-Treasury,  the amount was kept  in  the  ElectionRevenue	 deposit and the monies were at the disposal of	 theElection  Commission ; also that the Election Commission  oranyone * Basappa v. Ayyappa, see p. 6ii, post.608authorised  by the Election Commission in that behalf  coulddraw the said monies and no one else could withdraw the samewithout	  such	authority.   If	 that  was  so,	 there	 wassufficient  compliance with the requirements of s.  117	 andthere  could be no question of dismissing the  petition	 fornoncompliance with the provisions of that section.Having	regard therefore to the conclusion reached above  inregard	to the non-compliance with the provisions of s.	 82,Civil Appeal No. 763 of 1957 will be allowed, the orders  ofdismissal made by the High Court on the writ petitions	Nos.531  of 1957 and 532 of 1957 will be set aside,	 the  orderspassed by the Election Tribunal dated July 5, 1957, will  bevacated	 and the Election Petition No. 147 of 1957  will  bedismissed  with costs.	As the appellant has failed  in	 hiscontention  in regard to the provisions of s. 117,  we	feelthat the proper order for costs should be that each party dobear  and  pay	his own costs here as well as  in  the	HighCourt.Civil  Appeal  No. 764 of 1957 also shares a  similar  fate.The   first  respondent	 therein  did  not  join  as   partyrespondents  to his petition the two candidates whose  nameshad  been included by the returning officer in the  list  ofcontesting candidates but who had subsequently retired	fromthe contest before the commencement of the poll.  They	werenecessary  parties  to the petition in so far as  the  firstrespondent had claimed a further declaration that he himselfbe  declared  duly  elected  under  s.	101.   The  ElectionPetition No. 74 of 1957 filed by him, was thus liable to  bedismissed  for	non-joinder of necessary  parties  under  s.90(3) of the Act.This appeal will also be accordingly allowed, theorders	passed by the High Court in Writ Petitions Nos.	 573and 574 of 1957 will be set aside, the orders passed by	 theElection  Tribunal  on	July 13,1957, will  be	vacated	 andElection  Petition No. 74 of 1957 will be,  dismissed.	 Thefirst respondent will pay the appellants costs throughout.So  far	 as Civil Appeal No. 48 of 1958	 is  concerned,	 thedifficulty which faces the appellant is that we			     609have  nothing on the record of the appeal to show what	werethe exact terms of the deposit made by the second respondentunder  s. If 7. The copy of the chalan which is	 cyclostyledat p. 45 of the record is deficient in material	 particularsand does not throw any light on the question.  The appellantno  doubt made an application to the Election.	Tribunal  totry  his  objection as regards the non-compliance  with	 theprovision,-, of that section as a preliminary objection	 anddetermine  whether the second respondent had  complied	withthe provisions of s. 117 and if not to dismiss his petition.The   Election	Tribunal,  however,  did  not  decide	thispreliminary  objection	but ordered that the  trial  of	 thepetition  (lo proceed.	The High Court before whom the	WritPetition  M. J. No. 480 of 1957 was filed also came  to	 thesame  conclusion  as  it thought that the  matter  could  bedecided	 at  the time of hearing itself	 and  dismissed	 theapplication.We  are of opinion that both the Election Tribunal  and	 theHigh  Court  were  wrong  in the view  they  took.   If	 thepreliminary  objection	was not entertained and	 a  decisionreached thereupon, further proceedings taken in the ElectionPetition   would  mean	a  full	 fledged   trial   involvingexamination of a large number of witnesses on behalf of	 theand  respondent	 in support of the numerous  allegations  ofcorrupt	 practices attributed by him to the  appellant.	 hisagents	or  others working on his behalf; examination  of  alarge  member of witnesses by or on behalf of the  appellantcontroverting the allegations made against him;	 examinationof  witnesses in support of' the recrimination submitted  bythe appellant against the 2nd respondent; and a large numberof  visits by the appellant from distant places	 like  Delhiand  Bombay to Ranchi resulting in not only  heavy  expensesand  loss  of time and diversion of the appellant  from	 hispublic	duty  in the various fields of'	 activity  includingthose in the House of the People.  It would mean unnecessaryharassment  and	 expenses  for	the  appellant	which  couldcertainly  be avoided if the preliminary objection urged  byhim  was  decided  at  the initial  stage  by  the  ElectionTribunal,610We  are therefore of the opinion that the orders  passed  bythe  High  Court  in M. J. C. No. 480 of  1957	and  by	 theElection Tribunal in Election Petition No. 341 of 1957	werewrong and ought to be set aside.  The Election Tribunal willdecide	the  preliminary  objection in regard  to  the	non-compliance  with  the  provisions  of  s.  117	by  the	 2ndrespondent  in the light of the observations made above	 anddeal with the same according to law.  The parties will be atliberty	 to lead such further evidence before  the  ElectionTribunal  as  they may be advised.  The costs  of  both	 theparties, here, as well as in the courts below will be  costsin  the Election Petition to be dealt with by  the  ElectionTribunal hereafter and will abide the result of its decisionon the preliminary objection.		     Appeal,s allowed.	      Appeal No. 48 of 1958 remanded.611