PETITIONER:MESSRS.	 HOWRAH TRADING CO., LTD,	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, CALCUTTADATE OF JUDGMENT:26/03/1959BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.KAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1959 AIR  775		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 448 CITATOR INFO : R	    1961 SC1019	 (8) F	    1963 SC 493	 (4) R	    1964 SC1761	 (9) RF	    1966 SC 719	 (5) RF	    1966 SC1583	 (3,7,8) RF	    1973 SC 651	 (7,8) RF	    1974 SC1728	 (17) R	    1985 SC 520	 (21)ACT:Income-tax-Assessee  acquiring	shares by  blank  transfers-Receipt	 of dividend on such shares-If assessee entitled  togrossing  up  of  dividend  income and	to  credit  for	 taxdeducted at source-Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922),ss. 16(2) and 18(5).HEADNOTE:The  assessee  acquired shares in  certain  companies  under"blank transfers " without getting the transfers  registeredwith  the companies and it received dividends in respect  ofthese shares.  It claimed that the dividend income should begrossed up under s. 16(2) Income-tax Act and that it  shouldbe  allowed  credit under s. 18(5) for the tax	deducted  atsource on the dividend in the hands of the companies.Held, that, the assessee was not entitled to the benefits ofss.  16(2) and 18(5) as its name was not in the register  ofmembers	 of  the companies.  The benefit of s.	18(5)  couldonly go to a shareholder; and a shareholder in that  sectionmeant  the same thing as in the Indian Companies Act,  1913,i. e., a " member having his name on the register.The scheme of the Indian Companies Act, 1913, shows that thewords " member ", " shareholder " and " holder of a share  "have  been  used interchangeably.  The words  "holder  of  ashare"	are really equal to the word "shareholder"  and	 theexpression " holder of a share " denotes only a person	who,as  a shareholder, has his name entered on the	register  ofmembers.In re Wala Wynaad Indian Gold Mining Company, (1882) 21	 Ch.D.  849, Shree Shakti Mills Ltd. v. Commissioner of  Income-tax, [1948] 16 I.T.R. 187, jaluram Bhikulal v.	Commissionerof Income-tax, [1952] 22  I. T.R. 491, Arvind N. Mafatlal v.Incometax  Officer, [1957] 32 I.T . R. 350, Bikaner  TradingCo.  v.	 Commissioner of Income-tax, [1953] 24	I.T.R.	419,referred to. -A  company when it pays income-tax does not do so on  behalfof the shareholders, but the shareholders get the benefit ofsuch  payment.	 The rates of income-tax applicable  to	 thecompany	 are,  in  most instances,  higher  than  the  ratesapplicable to individual shareholders and by the process  ofgrossing up the recipient of the dividend gets some benefit.Cull  v.  Inland Revenue Commissioners, (1940) A.C.  51	 andInland	Revenue Commissioners v. Blott, (1921) 2  A.C.	171,referred to.440In   blank  transfers  the  transfer  deed  signed  by	 thetransferor  is	handed	over with the  share  scrip  to	 thetransferee  who	 may complete the transfer by  entering	 hisname  and  applying to the company for registration  of	 hisname.  The company only recognises those persons whose namesare  on the register of members and they alone	are  legallyentitled  to the dividend declared.  In the case of a  blanktransfer  equities  exist  between the	transferor  and	 thetransferee  and	 the  transferee has a right  to  claim	 thedividend from the transferor who holds it in trust for	him,but the company is only liable to the transferor and not  tothe  transferee.  Though the transferee is clothed  with  anequitable ownership he is not a full owner, since the  legalinterest  vis-a-vis  the  company  still  outstands  in	 thetransferor.JUDGMENT:   CIVIL  APPELLATE  JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal	 No.  65  of1956.Appeal from the judgment and order dated August 31, 1954, ofthe Calcutta High Court in Income-tax Ref.  No. 57 of 1953.N.   C. Chatterjee and B. P. Maheshwari, for the appellant.K.   N.	 Rajagopala Sastri, R. H. Dhebar and D.	 Gupta,	 forthe respondent.1959.  March 26.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byHIDAYATULLAH,  J.-Messrs.  Howrah  Trading  Company,   Ltd.,Calcutta (hereinafter called the assessee) obtained on April28,  1955,  a  certificate under s.  66A(2)  of	 the  IndianIncome-tax  Act from the Calcutta High Court, to  appeal  tothis  Court against the judgment dated August 31,  1954,  inIncome-tax  Reference No. 57 of 1953.  The Divisional  Bench(Chakravarti,  C. J., and Lahiri, J.) in the judgment  underappeal merely followed their earlier judgment delivered	 thesame  day  in  Income-tax Reference No. 22  of	1953,  sincereported as Hindustan Investment Corporation v. Commissionerof  Income-tax (1).  It is the latter judgment	which  givesthe reasons for the decision.The  facts  of the case have been  stated  with	 sufficientfulness, yet briefly, in the statement of the case submittedby  the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal (Calcutta	 Bench)	 andmay be conveniently set out in its own words:(1)  [1955] 27 I.T.R. 202.57450"  The applicant had received sums of Rs. 3,831, Rs.  6,606,Rs. 7,954 and Rs. 8,304 in the four assessment years,  1944-45,  1945-46, 1946-47 and 1947-48 as income from  dividends.The  shares  in respect of which this  dividend	 income	 wasreceived were the property of the Applicant but in the booksof  the various companies these stood in the names of  otherpersons.  It appears that these shares were purchased by theApplicant from other persons under a blank transfer but	 thetransfers   had	 not  been  registered	with   the   variouscompanies.   The  Applicant's  claim  in  these	  income-taxproceedings was that these shares although not registered inthe  name  of  the  applicant  were  the  property  of	 theapplicant.  It was further claimed that this dividend incomeshould	be grossed up under s. 16(2) and credit for the	 taxdeducted should be allowed to the Applicant under s. 18(5)."The  Income-tax Officer did not accept this claim,  and	 theappeals	 of  the  assessee were rejected  by  the  AppellateAssistant Commissioner of Income-tax, Calcutta, " A "  Rangeand  by the Appellate Tribunal.	 The Tribunal,	however,  onbeing  moved,  referred the following question to  the	HighCourt:"  Whether in the facts and circumstances of this case,	 theApplicant (the assessee) was entitled to have this  dividendincome	grossed up under section 16(2) and claim credit	 fortax deducted at source under section 18(5) of the Income-taxAct?  "The  High Court answered the question in the negative,	thusaffirming the decisions of the Department and the  AppellateTribunal.The assessee contends that the decision of the High Court iserroneous,  and	 that it is entitled to	 have  the  dividendincome I grossed up' under s. 16(2) and also to claim creditfor tax deducted at source, under s.18(5) of the  Income-taxAct.The relevant sections are as follows:" 16(2) : For the purposes of inclusion in the total  incomeof an assessee any dividend shall be deemed to be income  ofthe  previous  year  in	 which	it  is	paid,  credited	  ordistributed or deemed to have been		      451paid, credited or distributed to him, and shall be increasedto  such amount as would, if income-tax (but not  super-tax)at  the rate applicable to the total income of	the  companywithout taking into account any rebate allowed or additionalincome-tax  charged  for  the financial year  in  which	 thedividend is paid, credited or distributed or deemed to	havebeen paid, credited or distributed, were deducted therefrom,be equal to the amount of the dividend: (proviso omitted).18 (5):	  Any deduction made and paid to the account of	 theCentral Government in accordance with the provisions of thissection	 and any sum by which a dividend has been  increasedunder  sub-section (2) of section 16 shall be treated  as  apayment	 of incometax or super-tax on behalf........ of	 theshareholder and credit shall be given to him therefor on theproduction  of the certificate	furnished  under.....section20 ...... in the assessment, if any, made for the  followingyear under this Act: (proviso omitted).49B(1):	  Where	 any  dividend has been	 paid,	credited  ordistributed  or	 is deemed to have been	 paid,	credited  ordistributed to any of the persons specified in section 3 whois  a shareholder of a company which is assessed to  income-tax  in	 the taxable territories or elsewhere,	such  personshall,	if the dividend is included in his total income,  bedeemed	in  respect of such dividend himself  to  have	paidincome-tax  (exclusive of super-tax) of an amount  equal  tothe sum by which the dividend has been increased under	sub-section (2) of section 16."It was contended in the High Court that inasmuch as s. 16(2)referred to an I assessee, the assessee company was entitledto have the dividend 'grossed up' by the addition of income-tax paid by the various companies at source and consequentlyto  have  the benefit of the credit allowed  under  the	 tworemaining  sections.  In the opinion of the High  Court,  anassessee  whose name was not in the register of	 members  ofthe  companies	was  not entitled to the  benefit  of  theseprovisions.   The learned Judges of the High Court  were  ofthe opinion that the word " shareholder " in452s.18(5)	 had the same signification as the word "  member  "used in the Indian Companies Act; and that the assessee	 wasnot qualified to be considered as a shareholder, even thoughby  a blank transfer it had ,purchased the relevant  shares.In our opinion, the High Court was right in its conclusion.A company when it pays income-tax, does not do so on  behalfof the shareholders.  It is itself chargeable under the Act,In  Cull  v. Inland Revenue Commissioners  (1),	 Lord  Atkinstated	the law (which in substance is also the law  in	 ourcountry) thus:My Lords, it is now clearly established that in the case  ofa limited company the company itself is chargeable to tax onits  profits, and that it pays tax in discharge of  its	 ownliability and not as agent for its shareholders.........  Atone  time  it was thought that the company, in	paying	tax,paid  on behalf of the shareholder; but this theory  is	 nowexploded by decisions in this House, and the position of theshareholders as to tax is as I have stated it."When  the  company pays its own income-tax  and	 declares  adividend  from the balance of its profits, it  deducts	fromsuch dividend a proportionate part of the amount of the	 taxpaid by it.  This principle is explained in another  Englishcase, and it is substantially also the law in this  country.In Inland Revenue Commissioners v. Blott (2), Viscount	Cavestated the law in these words:"  Plainly, a company paying income-tax on its profits	doesnot pay it as agent for its shareholders.  It pays as a tax-payer, and if no dividend is declared, the shareholders haveno  direct  concern  in	 the  payment.	 If  a	dividend  isdeclared,  -the	 company  is entitled to  deduct  from	suchdividend  a  proportionate  part of the amount	of  the	 taxpreviously  paid  by  the company; and, in  that  case,	 thepayment	  by   the  company  operates  in  relief   of	 theshareholder.	But  no	 agency,  properly  so	called,	  isinvolved."The  share-holders, however, get the benefit of the  paymentof the tax by the company.  Though under(1)  [1940] A.C. 51, 56 ; (1939) 22 Tax Cas. 603, 636.(2)  [1921] 2 A.C. 171, 201. 453s.16(2)	 of  the  Act  their  dividend	is  increased  by  aproportionate amount of tax paid by the company, the paymentof  the	 tax by the company is deemed tinder ss.  18(5)	 and49B(1)	to  be payment by the shareholders.   The  rates  ofincome-tax applicable to the company are, in most instances,higher	 than  the  rates  applicable  to   the	  individualshareholders, and by this process of 'grossing up', as it iscommonly  called,  the recipient of the dividend  gets	somebenefit.The  position  of a shareholder who gets dividend  when	 hisname stands in the register of members of the company causesno difficulty whatever.	 But transfers of shares are common,and they take place either by a fully executed document suchas  was	 contemplated  by Regulation 18 of Table  A  of	 theIndian	Companies  Act 1913, or by what are known  as  blanktransfers'.   In  such	blank transfers,  the  name  of	 thetransferor  is entered, and the transfer deed signed by	 thetransferor is handed over with the share scrip to the trans-feree,	who,  if he so chooses, completes  the	transfer  byentering  his  name  and then applying	to  the	 company  toregister  his  name in place of the previous holder  of	 theshare.	 The company recognises no person except  one  whosename  is on the register of members, upon whom	alone  callsfor unpaid capital can be made and to whom only the dividenddeclared  by  the company is legally  payable.	 Of  course,between the transferor and the transferee, certain  equitiesarise  even  on the execution and handing over of  'a  blanktransfer',  and	 among these equities is the  right  of	 thetransferee  to claim the dividend declared and paid  to	 thetransferor  who	 is treated as a trustee on  behalf  of	 thetransferee.   These  equities,	however, do  not  touch	 thecompany, and no claim by the transferee whose name is not inthe register of members can be made against the company,  ifthe  tranferor retains the money in his own hands and  failsto pay it to him.A  glance at the scheme of the Indian Companies	 Act,  1913,shows  that  the  words " member ", " shareholder  "  and  "holder	of a share " have been used interchangeably in	thatAct.   Indeed,	the opinion of most of the  writers  on	 thesubject is also the same.454Buckley	 on  the Companies Act, 12th Edition, page  803	 haspointed	 out that the right of a transferee is only to	callupon  the  company  to register his name and  no  more.-  Norights arise till such registration ,takes place.Section	 2(16) of the Indian Companies Act, 1913, defines  "share  "  as  " share in the share capital  of	the  companySection	 5  deals  with the  mode  of  forming	incorporatedcompanies,  and in the case of companies limited by  shares,the  liability of the members is limited to the amounts,  ifany, unpaid on the shares respectively held by them.  By  s.18,  Table A is made applicable to companies, unless by	 theArticles  of  any  company the terms of Table  A  have	beenexcluded  or  modified.	 Regulation 18 of Table A  reads  asfollows:"  The	instrument of transfer of any share in	the  companyshall be executed both by the transferor and transferee, andthe transferor shall be deemed to remain holder of the shareuntil the name of the transferee is entered in the  registerof members in respect thereof.	"The words " holder of a share " are really equal to the wordshareholder and the expression " holder of a share  denotes,in so far as the company is concerned, only a person who, asa  shareholder,	 has  his name entered on  the	register  ofmembers.    A	similar	 view  of  the	 Companies   ClausesConsolidation  Act, 1845, was taken in Nanney v.  Morgan(1).The learned Lord Justices held that under s. 15 of that Act,the  transferee	 bad not the benefit of a legal	 title	tillcertain	 things	 were done, which were indicated  by  Lopes,L.J., in the following passage:"  Therefore the transferor, until the delivery of the	deedof  transfer  to  the  secretary,  is  subject	to  all	 theliabilities and entitled to all the rights which belong to ashareholder  or	 stockholder, and, in my opinion  until	 therequisite  formalities are complied with, he  continues	 thelegal  -proprietor  of the stock or shares subject  to	thatproprietorship	being  divested,  which it  may	 be  at	 anymoment, by a compliance with the requisite formalities.(1)  (1888) 37 Ch.  D. 346, 356.455The same position obtains in India, though the completion ofthe  transaction by having the name entered in the  registerof members relates it back to the time when the transfer wasfirst made.  See Nagabushanam v.   Ramachandra Rao (1).During	the  period  that the transfer	exists	between	 thetransferor and the transferee without emerging as a  bindingdocument upon the company, equities exist between them,	 butnot between the transferee and the company.  The  transfereecan  call  upon the transferor to attend the  meeting,	voteaccording  to his directions, sign documents in relation  tothe  issuance of fresh capital, call for  emergent  meetingsand  inter  alia,  also compel the transferor  to  pay	suchdividend  as he may have received.  See E. D. Sassoon &	 Co.Ltd.  v.  Patch-(2)  approved in Mathalone  v.	Bombay	LifeAssurance  Co. Ltd. (3 ). But these rights though  they,  nodoubt,	clothe the transferee with an equitable	 ownership-,are  not  sufficient to make the transferee  a	full  owner,since  the  legal  interest  vis-a-vis	the  company   stilloutstands  in the transferor; so much so, that	the  companycredits the dividends only to the transferor and also  callsupon him to make payment of any unpaid capital, which may beneeded.	 The cases in Black v. Homersham (4) or Wimbush,  Inre Richards v. Wimbush (5) hardly advance the matter furtherthan  this.  The position, therefore, under the Indian	Com-panies	Act,  1913,  is quite clear that  the  expression  "shareholder " or " holder of a share " in so far as that Actis  concerned, denotes no other person except a " member  ".The  question that arises in the present case is whether  byreason	of  ss.	 16(2) and 18(5) the  assessee,	 who  was  atransferee on a blank transfer' is entitled to the  benefitsof the grossing up of the dividend income.  Learned  counselfor  the  assessee strenuously contends	 that  the  assesseebeing an owner in equity of the shares and thus also of	 thedividend is entitled to this benefit.  He refers to the	 useof the word I assessee in s. 16(2).  The Department, on the(1)  (1922) I.L.R. 45 Mad. 537.(3)  [1954] S.C.R. 117.(2)  (1922) 45 Bom.  L.R. 46.(4)  (1878-79) L. R. 4 Ex.  D. 24.(5) [1940] 1 Ch.  D. 92.456other hand, says that the dividend can be increased under s.16(2) and credit allowed under s. 18(5) if the assessee is a'shareholder',	because the benefit of s. 18(5) can go	onlyto  the	 shareholder, i. e., a person with his name  on	 theregister  of members, and not to a person holding an  equityagainst	 such shareholder.  The assessee contends  that	 theword  "	 shareholder " includes even a person  who  holds  ashare  as  a  result  of a  blank  transfer,  and  does	 notnecessarily  mean a member of the company, whose name is  onthe register of members.Authorities  on this point are not wanting, and	 indeed,  inthe  judgment of the Calcutta High Court they have all	beenreferred to.  They are all against the assessee.  See  ShreeShakti Mills Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax (1), JaluramBhikulal  v.  Commissioner  of	Income-tax  (2),  Arvind  N.Mafatlal v. Incometax Officer (3) and Bikaner Trading Co. v.Commissioner of Income-tax (4).The  question  that falls for consideration is	whether	 themeaning	 given	to the expression "shareholder" used  in  s.18(5) of the Act by these cases is correct.  No valid reasonexists why " shareholder " as used in s. 18(5) should mean aperson other than the one denoted by the same expression  inthe Indian Companies Act, 1913.	 In In re Wala Wynaad IndianGold Mining Company (5), Chitty, J., observed:" I use now myself the term which is common in the Courts, Ia shareholder', that means the holder of the shares.  It  isthe  common term used, and only means the person  who  holdsthe shares by having his name on the register.	"Learned	  counsel  for	the  assessee  cited  a	 number	  ofauthorities  in which the ownership of the dividend  was  inquestion, and it was held that the transferee whose name wasnot registered, was entitled to the dividend after  transferhad  been  made.  These cases are  Commissioners  of  InlandRevenue	 v. Sir John Oakley (6), Spence v. Commissioners  ofInland Revenue (7)(1)  [1948] 16 I.T.R. 187.(3)  [1957] 32 I.T.R. 350.(5)  (1882) 21 Ch.  D. 849, 854.(2)  [1952] 22 I.T.R. 490.(4)  [1953] 24 I.T.R. 419.(6)  (1925) 9 Tax Cas. 582,(7) (1941) 24 Tax Cas. 311.457and others cited at page 367 in Multipar Syndicate, Ltd.  v.Devitt (1).No one can doubt the correctness of the proposition in thesecases, but from an equitable right to compel the  transferorto give up the dividend to the transferee, to a claim to thedividend by him as a " shareholder " against the company  isa wide jump.  In so far as the company is concerned, it doesnot even issue the certificate under s. 20 of the Income-taxAct  in the name of an unregistered transferee but  only  inthe  name of the transferor whom it recognises, because	 hisname is borne on its books.  Section 20 lays down:" The principal officer of every company shall, at the	timeof  distribution  of  dividends,  furnish  to  every  personreceiving  a dividend a certificate to the effect  that	 thecompany has paid or will pay income-tax on the profits whichare being distributed, and specifying such other particularsas may be prescribed.  "The  meaning of s. 20 as also of s. 18(5) is clear  if	theyare  read  with s. 19A, under  which  information  regardingdividends has to be supplied by the company when demanded bythe Income-tax Officer.	 It lays down:"  The principal officer of every company ... shall,  on  orbefore	the  15th day of June in each year, furnish  to	 theprescribed  officer  a	return in the  prescribed  form	 andverified  in the prescribed manner of the names and  of	 theaddresses,  as	entered	 in  the  register  of	shareholdersmaintained  by	the company, of the shareholders to  whom  adividend or aggregate dividends exceeding Such amount as maybe  prescribed in this behalf has or have been,	 distributedduring the, preceding year and of the amount so	 distributedto each such shareholder.  " (Italics supplied).Section	 19A makes it clear, if any doubt existed,  that  bythe term " shareholder " is meant the person whose name	 andaddress	 are  entered in the register of  "  shareholders  "maintained  by	the  company.  There  is  but  one  registermaintained by the Company.  There(1)  (1945) 26 Tax Cas. 359.58458is  no	separate register of " shareholders "  such  as	 theassessee  claims to be but only a register of "	 members  ".This  takes us immediately to the register of  members,	 anddemonstrates that even for the purpose of the Indian Income-tax Act, the words ',member and " shareholder " can be	readas synonymous.The words of s. 18(5) must accordingly be read in the  lightin  which  the	word " shareholder " has been  used  in	 thesubsequent  sections, and read in that manner,	the  presentassessee,   notwithstanding  the  equitable  right  to	 thedividend, was not entitled to be regarded as a "shareholder"for  the purpose of s. 18(5) of the Act.  That	benefit	 canonly go to the person who, both in law and in equity, is  tobe regarded as the owner of the shares and between whom	 andthe company exists the bond of membership and ownership of ashare in the share capital of the company.In  view of this, we are satisfied that the answer given  bythe  Calcutta  High  Court  on the  question  posed  by	 theTribunal was correct.The appeal fails, and is dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.459