PETITIONER:NARAYANDAS BHAGWANDAS MADHAVDAS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF WEST BENGALDATE OF JUDGMENT:07/05/1959BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1118		  1960 SCR  (1)	 93 CITATOR INFO : R	    1961 SC 986	 (7) RF	    1977 SC2401	 (8)ACT:Criminal   Trial--Cognizance  of  an  offence,	when   taken-Issuing of search warrant and warrant of arrest, if  amountto  taking cognizance-Attempting to take currency notes	 outof  India-Foreign  Exchange  Regulation Act,  1947  (VII  of1947), ss. 19(3) and 23(3). Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898(V of 1898), ss. 153, 155, 200-203 and 204.HEADNOTE:On  September  7,  1952,  the  appellant  went	to  Dum	 DumAerodrome to board a plane for Hong Kong.  On his search  bythe  customs authorities a sum of RS. 25,000  was  recoveredfrom  him which he had not declared in his declaration	formand  for  which he had no permit from the  Reserve  Bank  ofIndia  for taking out of India.	 On September II, 1952,	 theReserve	  Bank	authorised  Inspector  Mitra  to  move	 theAdditional  District Magistrate, 24 Parganas under S.  19(3)Of  the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, for  permission  toproceed against the appellant.	On September 16, 1952, Mitraapplied	 to  the Magistrate for a search warrant and  for  awarrant	 of  arrest  and both  warrants	 were  issued.	 Theappellant was arrested and released on bail with a directionto appear before the Magistrate on September 19 On September19, the Magistrate granted bail to the appellant but refusedhim exemption from personal attendance before the Court	 andgranted	 time  till November 19, 1952,	for  completing	 theinvestigation.	This time was extended upto January 2,	1953and then upto February 2, 1953.	 In the meantime on  January27, 1953, Mitra was authorised under S. 23(3)(b)) Of the Actto  file a complaint against the appellant.   The  complaintwas  filed  on	February  2,  1953,  before  the  AdditionalDistrict Magistrate who transferred the case to a MagistrateI  Class for trial.  On the same day the Magistrate I  Classrecorded   the	presence  of  the  appellant,  allowed	 hisapplication  for reduction of security and fixed  March	 26,and  27, 1953, for evidence.  Upon conclusion of  the  trialthe  Magistrate	 acquitted the appellant but on	 appeal	 theCalcutta High Court convicted him.  The appellant  contendedthat  the  entire  trial was  without  jurisdiction  as	 theMagistrate had taken cognizance of the offence on  September16,  1952, without there being a complaint in writing  by  aperson authorised as required by S. 23(3) of the Act.Held,  that  cognizance	 of the offence	 was  taken  by	 theAdditional  District Magistrate on February 2,	1953,  afterthe complaint had been filed and the trial was valid.  As towhen cognizance is taken of an offence will depend upon	 thefacts  and  circumstances of each case.	 Mere issuing  of  asearch	warrant	 or warrant of arrest for  the	purposes  ofinvestigation did not, by94themselves, amount to taking of cognizance.  Cognizance	 wastaken when a Magistrate applied his mind for the purpose  ofproceeding under S. 200 and subsequent sections of Ch.	 XVIof  the	 Code of Criminal Procedure or under S. 204  Of	 Ch.XVII of the Code.  In the present case cognizance was  takenwhen on February 2, 1053, the Additional District Magistrateapplied	 his  mind  to the case with a	view  to  issuing  aprocess and sent the case for trial to another magistrate.Superintendent	and  Remembrancer of   Legal  Affairs,	WestBengal v. Abani Kumar Banerji, A.I.R. (1950) Cal. 437 and R.R.  Chari v. The State of Uttar Pradesh, [1951] S.C.R.	312,applied.The  facts  found  clearly established	that  the  appellantattempted  to  take  out  of India  the	 currency  notes  inquestion,  and such attempt was also an offence.   The	HighCourt  had  rightly  rejected his explanation  that  he	 hadapplied	 to  the  Reserve  Bank for a  permit  to  take	 thecurrency  notes out of India and that as the permit had	 notbeen  received he had handed over the notes to	the  customsauthorities for safe custody.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 12  of1957.Appeal from the judgment and order dated September 5,  1956,of  the	 Calcutta High Court in Government Appeal No.  7  of1954,  arising out of the judgment and order dated April  3,1954, of the Court of 1st Class Magistrate at Alipore.Ishwar Lal C. Dalal and 1. N. Shroff, for the appellant.H. J. Umrigar, and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1959.  May 7. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byIMAM  T.-This is an appeal on a certificate granted  by	 theCalcutta High Court.  Two points have been urged before	 theBench of the High Court which granted the certificate.	 Thefirst was that the search conducted by the Customs officialswhich had resulted in the     detection	  of  the   currencynotes on the person of the    appellant had not-been a legalsearch and consequently no proceedings	   could be based onthe  purported detection made.	This point was	rejected  bythe  Bench.   The  second  point  urged	 on  behalf  of	 theappellant was that on September 16, 1952, when the95Magistrate   issued  the  warrant  of  arrest  against	 theappellant   he	could  not  have  done	so  without   havingpreviously taken cognizance of the offence.  Since, however,the  authorization  required under s. 23(3) of	the  ForeignExchange Regulation Act (VII of 1947) was not obtained	tillJanuary 27, 1953, the cognizance taken by the Magistrate  onSeptember  16,	1952,  was  without  jurisdiction.   If	 theinitiation of the proceedings was without jurisdiction,	 theconviction could not stand.  The High Court thought that thecontention  of	the appellant raised a question of  law	 andgranted the requisite certificate for appeal to this Court.The  prosecution  case was that on September  7,  1952,	 theappellant went to Dum Dum Aerodrome with a view to  boardinga  plane  for  Hong Kong.  The plane was due  to  leave	 theairport	 at  8-30 a.m. The appellant had to go	through	 thecustoms formalities before he could board the plane.  On  anenquiry	 by  the Customs Officers as to whether he  had	 anyother articles besides what he had declared in the  declara-tion  form,  the appellant answered in	the  negative.	 Hisbaggage	 was then examined but no objectionable article	 wasdetected therein.  The Customs Officers, however, noticed  apouch	of  somewhat  unusual  size  which   aroused   theirsuspicion.   Thereafter,  the  appellant  was  subjected  topersonal search.  When they were about to search his  personhe  let drop his trousers.  The appellant was  requested  tolift  up the trousers and wear them again which he did.	  Onthe  search  of the trousers a sum of Rs. 25,000  in  Indiancurrency  notes was discovered in two secret pockets.	Theywere  concealed from below the surface and opened  from	 theinside.	  On September 11, 1952, the Reserve Bank  of  Indiaauthorized  Inspector  S.  B. Mitra of	the  Special  PoliceEstablishment,	Calcutta,  to make a representation  to	 theAdditional  District  Magistrate, 24  Parganas	(hereinafterreferred  to  as  the Additional  District  Magistrate)	 forpermission  to	proceed against the  appellant	as  requiredunder s. 19(3) of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947.Mitra	thereupon  applied  to	the   Additional   District,Magistrate on September 16, 1952, for a search warrant96to be issued which was allowed.	 Mitra on the same date alsoapplied	 to  the same Magistrate that a	 warrant  of  arrestmight  be  issued  against the	appellant.   This  was	alsoallowed and a warrant of arrest was issued by the AdditionalDistrict  Magistrate and appellant was	thereafter  arrestedand  released on bail with a direction to appear before	 theAdditional   District  Magistrate  on  September   19.	  OnSeptember  19,	he was released on bail	 by  the  AdditionalDistrict  Magistrate  in  the  sum of  Rs.  50,000  with  10sureties  of Rs. 5,000 each.  On November 19, the  appellantasked for exemption from attending the court on the  succes-sive  dates  fixed  for the case  but  the  application	 wasrefused.   On  January 27, 1953, the Reserve Bank  of  Indiaauthorized Mitra to file a complaint against the  appellant.On  February  2,1953,  a complaint  was	 filed	against	 theappellant charging him with an offence under s. 8(2) of	 theForeign	 Exchange Regulation Act read with s. 19 of the	 SeaCustoms	 Act  and  notification No. FERA  105/55  RB,  datedFebruary 27, 1951.Thereafter,  the appellant was tried by another	 Magistrate,Mr.  Sinha,  who acquitted him under s. 258 of the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure.   The  currency notes  which  had	beenseized	by  the	 Customs  Officials  were  directed  to	  berelassed.   Against the appellant's acquittal the  State  ofWest Bengal preferred an appeal to the High Court.  The HighCourt allowed the appeal and convicted the appellant of	 theoffence with which he had been charged.	 He was sentenced topay  a	fine  of Rs. 1,000, in default	to  suffer  rigorousimprisonment for three months.	The order of the  Magistratedirecting the release of the currency notes was set aside.The  main submission made on behalf of the appellant  beforeus  has been that the Additional District Magistrate  havingtaken  cognizance of the offence on September 16, 1952,	 andas  the	 provisions  of s. 23(3)  of  the  Foreign  ExchangeRegulation  Act	 had  not been	complied  with,	 the  entireproceedings before him and the Magistrate who tried the casewere without jurisdiction.  The subsequent authorization  bythe Reserve Bank on January 27, 1953, and the filing of			     97the  complaint	on  February 2,1953  could  not	 make  legalproceedings    which   had   already	commenced    withoutjurisdiction.	It was also urged that the facts  found	 didnot  attract the provisions of s. 19 of the Sea Customs	 Act(8  of 1878) as it could not be said that at the moment	 theappellant  was	searched by the Customs	 Officials,  he	 wastaking	out of India across any customs frontier as  definedby  the Central Government the currency notes  in  question.It was also urged that explanation offered by the  appellantwas  accepted  by the trying Magistrate and the	 High  Courtought not to have set aside the acquittal of the  appellant,there  being no good ground why his explanation	 should	 nothave been accepted.The  version  of  the appellant as to how  the	sum  of	 Rs.25,000	in currency notes was with him was that he  was	 notsearched  at all at the Customs barrier. had taken  out	 thecurrency  notes	 in  question from his	trouser	 pocket	 andhanded	over  the same to the Customs Officers	stating	 thecircumstances  under which he was carrying the same  on	 hisperson	and  asked  for a  receipt.   The  Customs  Officersinstead	 of  giving him a receipt falsely charged  him	withsmuggling  the	currency  notes out  of	 India	without	 anypermit.	  According to the appellant, he had applied to	 theReserve Bank of India at Calcutta for a permit and had	sentan  application for that purpose to one Joshi  in  Calcutta.He  failed to receive the permit upto the last moment.	 Hisintention was to hand over the money to the Customs Officersfor safe custody.  In other words, the appellant's  version,in  substance, was that as he had failed to get	 the  permitupto the last moment he voluntarily handed over the currencynotes  in  question to the Customs Officers at	the  customsbarrier	 for safe keeping.  He had at no time any  intentionto  carry  out of India the said currency  notes  without  apermit.	  This version of the appellant was accepted by	 thetrying	Magistrate  who	 acquitted  him.   The	High  Court,however, did not accept his version.It  was urged that the appeal is before us on a	 certificateand as the High Court had come to a different1398finding on a question of fact to what the trying  Magistratehad found, it was open to the appellant to urge that he	 wasentitled to question the findings of the High Court.  It  istrue that the High Court has taken a different view to	thattaken  by  the	trying	Magistrate  and	 has  rejected	 theappellant's  case  that he had voluntarily handed  over	 thecurrency  notes in question to the Customs Officers  in	 thecircumstances mentioned by him and that he had no  intentionto   take  that	 money	out  of	 India	without	 a   permit.Nonetheless, the finding of the High Court is on a  questionof fact.  We can see no particular reason in this case to gobe. hind the findings of fact arrived at by the High  Court.The  High  Court gave very good reasons	 for  accepting	 theevidence   of	the   prosecution  witnesses   as   to	 thecircumstances  in which the currency notes in question	wererecovered  from the appellant when his person was  searched.An  important  circumstance which might have  supported	 theappellant's  case,  namely  whether he had  applied  to	 theReserve	 Bank  of India for a permit to take  out  of  Indiacurrency notes to the extent of Rs. 25,000 was considered bythe   High  Court.   It	 found,	 on  the  evidence  of	 theSuperintendent	of the Reserve Bank, that the  Reserve	Bankreceived no application from the appellant before  September7, 1952, nor had the Reserve Bank granted the permission  tothe  appellant to take any currency notes out of India.	  Itwas  on September 16, that the Reserve Bank had received  anapplication of the appellant forwarded by one G.C. Joshi  byhis letter dated September 15, 1952.  The application of theappellant  bore the date September 2, 1952.  The High  Courtthought	 that  there were grounds for suspecting  that	thisapplication  was  antedated.   The High Court  came  to	 theconclusion that there was no evidence to show that any	suchapplication  was written or submitted on September 2,  1952.It  does seem extraordinary that if the appellant  had	sentthe  application to Joshi on September 2, 1952,	 that  Joshishould not have sent on that application to the Reserve Banktill  September 15, 1952.  It is to be remembered  that	 theincident  had already taken place on September 7, 1952,	 andin that99connection on September 15 and 16, 1952, Inspector Mitra  ofthe Special Police Establishment, Calcutta had applied for asearch warrant and a warrant of arrest respectively  againstthe  appellant.	 On arrest, under the terms of that  warranthe  was released on bail by the police with a  direction  toappear before the court on September 19.  The appellant	 hadtherefore ample opportunity to concoct an application for  apermit	after September 7, and to antedate it getting  Joshion  September 15, 1952, to forward the same to	the  ReserveBank.  It is inconceivable that a person who was leaving forHong  Kong and wished to carry such a large sum of money  asRs. 25,000 in currency notes would have applied on September2,  when  he  was  actually to fly  on	September  7,  1952.Further	 it  would not be unreasonable to suppose  that	 theappellant  would  have so timed his arrival at	Calcutta  aswould have enabled him to make the necessary enquiries	fromJoshi or the Reserve Bank whether the permit asked for	had,been  granted.	 It  is impossible to believe  that  he	 hadarrived at Calcutta and had gone direct to the Dum Dum Aero-drome without making any enquiry from Joshi at least whetherthe  permit asked for had been granted.	 Normally one  wouldexpect the appellant to reach Calcutta in sufficient time tomake the necessary enquiries and in the absence of a  permithaving been granted to have left the currency notes for safecustody	 with Joshi or some other trusted person.  It is  anentirely unacceptable story which the appellant put  forwardthat he waited upto the last moment at the aerodrome for thenecessary permit and not having got it requested the CustomsOfficers to keep the currency notes for safe custody.  It issignificant  that the appellant did not examine Joshi  as  awitness in support of his case.	 It is not unlikely that  ifhe had done so some inconvenient results would have followedin  consequence of close questioning of Joshi regarding	 theentire transaction.  We have, therefore, no reason to  thinkthat  the  High	 Court	had erred  in  suspecting  that	 theapplication  to	 the Reserve Bank was  antedated.   On	thisfinding	 it  is	 apparent that the very	 foundation  of	 thedefence	 of the appellant is false.  That the appellant	 didnot hand100over  the  currency  notes of Rs.  25,000,  at	the  customsbarrier	 but was searched when the customs formalities	weregone  through  is  not	only  deposed  to  by  a  number  of'Witnesses  holding responsible positions but is deposed  toby  P.W.  4,  Panna  Lal Dey, Money  Exchanger	of  Dum	 DumAirport.  Panna Lal Dey's evidence was accepted by the	HighCourt  and  after  having  examined  his  evidence  we	 aresatisfied that there is no reason to distrust his testimony.Reference  has	been  made  to some of	the  evidence  on  aquestion of fact in order to' satisfy ourselves whether	 thefinding	 of  the High Court was correct.  We  are  satisfiedthat  the finding of the High Court is the only	 view  whichcould reasonably be taken in a case like this.It  is	true that the appellant had not taken  the  currencynotes  in question out of India across any customs  frontieras  defined  by the Central Government.	  He  had,  however,clearly attempted to take the same out of India.  In such  acase  no  question  of his  crossing  the  customs  frontierarises.	  That an attempt to take out the currency notes  inquestion is an offence punishable under the Sea Customs	 Actis clear from the provisions of s. 167, Item 8. The  ForeignExchange  Regulation  (Amendment) Act 1952 (VIII  of  1952),came  into force in February 1952.  By this Act s.  23B	 wasintroduced   into  the	Foreign	 Exchange  Regulation	Act.Section	 23B makes punishable an attempt to  contravene	 theprovisions  of	the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act  or	 anyrule, direction or order made thereunder.  Furthermore, thispoint  was  not	 taken before the Bench	 which	granted	 thecertificate of fitness for appeal to this Court.  Be that asit  may,  the  facts  found  clearly  established  that	 theappellant attempted to take out of India the currency  notesin  question.  He had entered the customs enclosure and	 hadsigned	the declaration form.  He had been questioned as  towhether he had any other article than those mentioned in thedeclaration  form  which  he wished to declare	and  he	 hadanswered in the negative.  On his personal search he droppedhis  trousers  on the ground.  He was asked to pick  up	 histrousers and wear them again.  On search of the trousers Rs.25,000,101in currency notes were found concealed in the inner pockets.The  appellant had his ticket to proceed to Hong Kong  by  aplane  which was due to leave Dum Dum Airport at  8-30	a.m.and  the  customs formalities were done in  connection	withthat  flight.	If the appellant  had  successfully  clearedhimself	 from the customs formalities all that was left	 forhim to do was to board the plane which would take him out ofIndia.	These circumstances establish beyond all  reasonabledoubt  that  the act of the appellant had  gone	 beyond	 thestage of preparation and was clearly an attempt to carry thesum of Rs. 25,000, in currency notes out of India without  apermit from the Reserve Bank.  We cannot accept the argumentmade  on  his behalf that the act of the appellant,  on	 thefacts  found,  amounted	 merely to preparation	and  not  anattempt.The main submission on behalf of the appellant was  directedtowards establishing that the entire proceedings before	 theAdditional  District  Magistrate and the  trying  Magistratewere  without jurisdiction as cognizance of the offence	 hadbeen  taken on September 16, 1952, in contravention  of	 theprovisions  of s. 23(3) of the Foreign	Exchange  RegulationAct,  there being on that date no complaint in writing	madeby  an	officer	 authorised in that behalf  by	the  CentralGovernment  or the Reserve Bank of India by a general  or  aspecial	 order.	 It is, therefore, necessary to see, in	 thecircumstances  of the present case, on what date  cognizanceof  the	 offence  was taken.  In  order	 to  ascertain	thiscertain	 provisions of the Foreign Exchange  Regulation	 Actand  the  Code	of  Criminal  Procedure	 will  require	con-sideration.    Under  s.  19(3)	 of  the  Foreign   ExchangeRegulation  Act a District Magistrate or Magistrate  of	 thefirst  class may, on a representation in writing made  by  aperson	authorized in this behalf by the Central  Governmentor the Reserve Bank and having reasons to believe that therehad been contravention of any of the revisions of that	Act,issue  a search warrant.  Inspector Mitra was so  authorizedby the Reserve Bank on September 11, 1952, and in  pursuanceof  that  authorization applied to the	Additional  DistrictMagistrate for the issue of a search warrant.  Under102this  section the search warrant is issued for the  purposesof  conducting investigation under that Act.   On  September16,  Mitra  applied  for a warrant  of	arrest	against	 theappellant.   This application was obviously made  under	 theCriminal Procedure Code, The offence which the appellant  isalleged	 to  have committed was	 a  non-cognizable  offence.Under s. 155(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, no policeofficer	 shall investigate a non-cognizable offence  withoutthe  order  of	a Magistrate of the first  or  second  classhaving	power  to  try such a case or commit  the  same	 fortrial,	or  of a Presidency Magistrate.	  Inspector  Mitra'sapplication   definitely  states  that	he  in	asking	 forpermission to investigate a non-cognizable offence under  s.155,   Cr.  P.C.  The  order  of  the  Additional   DistrictMagistrate  directing the issue of a search warrant and	 theword  "	 permitted " contained therein we consider,  in	 thecontext	 of  the application, to mean that  he	granted	 thesanction for investigation as asked for.  Under s. 155(3) ofthe  Code a police officer being permitted to investigate  anon-cognizable	offence	 may  exercise the  same  powers  inrespect	 of  the investigation as an officer incharge  of  apolice	station	 may exercise in a cognizable  case,  exceptthat  he has not the power to arrest without a warrant.	  Itwas  necessary therefore for Inspector Mitra to obtain	fromthe Additional District Magistrate a warrant of arrest.	  Itis  clear,  therefore,	that upto September  16,  1952,	 theAdditional  District Magistrate had not taken cognizance  ofany offence.On  September  19, 1952, the appellant appeared	 before	 theAdditional  District Magistrate who recorded  the  followingorder:-" He is to give bail of Rs. 50,000 with ten sureties of	 Rs.5,000  each.   Seen Police report.  Time allowed  till	19thNovember,  1952, for completing investigation." On  November19,  1952,  on perusal of the police report  the  Magistrateallowed	 further  time for investigation  until	 January  2,1953, and on that date time was further extended to February2,  1953.  in the meantime, on January 27,  1953,  InspectorMitra had been -authorized under s. 23(3)(b) of the  ForeignExchange Regulation Act to file a complaint.  Accordingly, a103complaint  was	filed on February  2,1953.   The  AdditionalDistrict Magistrate thereon recorded the following order:"  Seen	 the  complaint filed to  day  against	the  accusedNarayandas  Bhagwandas Madhavdas under section 8(2)  of	 theForeign	 Exchange  Regulation  Act  read  with	Section	 23Bthereof	 read  with Section 19 of the Sea  Customs  Act	 andNotification  No. F.E.R.A. 105/51 dated the  27th  February,1951, as amended, issued by the Reserve Bank of India  underSection	 8(2) of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act.	Seenthe  letter  of	 authority.   To Sri  M.  N.  Sinha,  S.D.M.(Sadar), Magistrate 1st class (spl. empowered) for favour ofdisposal  according to law.  Accused to appear before  him."Accordingly,  on the same date Mr. Sinha then  recorded	 thefollowing order:-"  Accused present.  Petition filed for reduction  of  bail.Considering  all facts, bail granted for Rs. 25,000  with  5sureties.To 26th March, 1952 and 27th March, 1952 for evidence."It  is clear from these orders that on September  19,  1952,the Additional District Magistrate had not taken  cognizanceof  the offence because he had allowed the police time	tillNovember 19, 1952, for completing the investigation.  By hissubsequent   orders  time  for	investigation  was   furtherextended until February 2, 1953.  On that date the complaintwas   filed  and  the  order  of  the  Additional   DistrictMagistrate clearly indicated that he took cognizance of	 theoffence and sent the case for trial to Mr. Sinha.  It  wouldalso  appear  from the order of Mr. Sinha that	if  the	 Ad-ditional  District  Magistrate did not take  cognizance,  hecertainly did because he considered whether the bail  shouldbe  reduced  and  fixed	 the 26th and  27th  of	 March,	 forevidence.   It was, however, argued that when Mitra  appliedfor a search warrant on September, 16, 1952, the  AdditionalDistrict  Magistrate  had  recorded  an	 order	thereon,   "Permitted.  Issue search warrant." It was on this date	thatthe  Additional District Magistrate took cognizance  of	 theoffence.   We cannot agree with this submission because	 thepetition of Inspector Mitra clearly states that " As this isnon-cognizable offence, I pray that you will kindly permit104me  to	investigate the case under section 155 Cr.   P.	 C."That is to say, that the Additional District Magistrate	 wasnot  being asked to take cognizance of the offence.  He	 wasmerely	requested to grant permission to the police  officerto  investigate	 a  non-cognizable  offence.   The  petitionrequesting  the	 Additional District Magistrate to  issue  awarrant of arrest and his order directing the issue of	sucha  warrant cannot also be regarded as orders which  indicatethat   the  Additional	District  Magistrate  thereby	tookcognizance  of	the offence.  It was clearly stated  in	 thepetition that for the purposes of investigation his presencewas necessary.	The step taken by Inspector Mitra was merelya step in the investigation of the case.  He had not himselfthe power to make an arrest having regard to the  provisionsof s. 155(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	 In order tofacilitate  his	 investigation it was necessary for  him  toarrest	the  appellant and that he could not  do  without  awarrant	 of arrest from the Additional District	 Magistrate.As  already  stated, the order of  the	Additional  DistrictMagistrate of September 19, 1952, makes it quite clear	thathe   was   still   regarding  the  matter   as	 one   underinvestigation.	 It could not be said with any	good  reasonthat  the  Additional  District	 Magistrate  had  either  onSeptember  16,	or at any subsequent date upto	February  2,1953, applied his mind to the case with a view to issuing  aprocess	 against the appellant.	 The appellant had  appearedbefore the Magistrate on February 2, 1953, and the, questionof  issuing  summons to him did not arise.   The  AdditionalDistrict  Magistrate,  however, must be regarded  as  havingtaken  cognizance on this date because he sent the  case  toMr.  Sinha  for	 trial.	  There was  no	 legal	bar  to	 theAdditional  District  Magistrate taking	 cognizance  of	 theoffence	 on  February  2, 1953, as on  that  date  InspectorMitra's complaint was one which he was authorized to make bythe  Reserve Bank under s. 23(3)(b) of the Foreign  ExchangeRegulation  Act.  It is thus clear to us, that on  a  properreading	 of  the  various  orders  made	 by  the  AdditionalDistrict  Magistrate no cognizance of the offence was  takenuntil  February 2, 1953.  The argument that he took  cogniz-ance of the offence on September 16, 1952, is without			    105foundation.   The orders passed by the	Additional  DistrictMagistrate  on	September  16,	1952,  September  19,  1952,November  19, 1952, and January 2, 1953, were orders  passedwhile the investigation by the police into a  non-cognizableoffence was in progress.  If at the end of the investigationno complaint had been filed against the appellant the policecould  have  under  the provisions of s.  169  of  the	Codereleased  him  on  his	executing a  bond  with	 or  withoutsureties  to  appear  if and when  so  required	 before	 theAdditional District Magistrate empowered to take  cognizanceof the offence on a police report and to try the accused  orcommit him for trial.  The Magistrate would not be  requiredto pass any further orders in the matter.  If, on the  otherhand,  after  completing the investigation a  complaint	 wasfiled,	as  in	this  case, it would  be  the  duty  of	 theAdditional  District Magistrate then to enquire whether	 thecomplaint had been filed with the requisite authority of theReserve	 Bank  as  required by s. 23(3)(b)  of	the  ForeignExchange Regulation Act.  It is only at this stage that	 theAdditional District Magistrate would be called upon to	makeup his mind whether he would take cognizance of the offence.If the complaint Was filed with the authority of the ReserveBank,  as  aforesaid,  there would be no legal	bar  to	 theMagistrate  taking cognizance.	On the other hand, if  therewas  no	 proper	 authorization	to  file  the  complaint  asrequired  by  s.  23  the  Magistrate  concerned  would	  beprohibited from taking cognizance.  In the present case,  asthe requisite authority had been granted by the Reserve Bankon  January  27, 1953, to file a  complaint,  the  complaintfiled  on  February  2,	 was one  which	 complied  with	 theprovisions  of s. 23 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation	 Actand the Additional District Magistrate could take cognizanceof  the	 offence which, indeed, he did on  that	 date.	 Thefollowing  observation	by  Das Gupta, J., in  the  case  ofSuperintendent	and  Remembrancer  of  Legal  Affairs,	WestBengal v. Abani Kumar Banerji (1) was approved by this Courtin the case ofR.   R. Chari v. The State of Uttar Pradesh (2) :-(1)  A.I.R. (1950) Cal- 437.14(2) [1951] S.C.R. 312.106"What  is  taking  cognizance has not been  defined  in	 theCriminal  Procedure Code and I have no desire to attempt  todefine it.  It seems to me clear however that before it	 canbe  said  that any magistrate has taken	 cognizance  of	 anyoffence under section 190(1)(a) Criminal Procedure Code,  hemust  not only have applied his mind to the contents of	 thepetition but must have done so for the purpose of proceedingin  a particular way as indicated in the  subsequent  provi-sions  of  this	 Chapter-proceeding under  section  200	 andthereafter  sending it for inquiry and report under  section202.   When  the  magistrate applies his mind  not  for	 thepurpose of proceeding under the subsequent sections of	thisChapter,  but  for taking action of some other	kind,  e.g.,ordering  investigation under section' 156(3), or issuing  asearch	warrant	 for the purpose of  the  investigation,  hecannot be said to have taken cognizance of the offence."It  is, however, argued that in Chari's case this Court	 wasdealing	 with  a matter which came under the  Prevention  ofCorruption  Act.   It seems to us, however,  that  makes  nodifference.  It is the principle which was enunciated by DasGupta,	J.,  which was approved.  As to when  cognizance  istaken  of  an  offence	will  depend  upon  the	 facts	 andcircumstances  of each case and it is impossible to  attemptto define what is meant by taking cognizance.  Issuing of  asearch	warrant for the purpose of an investigation or of  awarrant	 of arrest for that purpose cannot by themselves  beregarded  as  acts  by	which cognizance  was  taken  of  anoffence.   Obviously, it is only when a	 Magistrate  applieshis  mind  for the purpose of proceeding under	s.  200	 andsubsequent  sections of Chapter XVI of the Code of  CriminalProcedure  or under s. 204 of Chapter XVII of the Code	thatit can be positively stated that he had applied his mind andtherefore had taken cognizance.In  our	 opinion,  the	proceedings  before  the  AdditionalDistrict  Magistrate  and the trying  Magistrate  were	withjurisdiction and the trial of the appellant waslegal.The appeal is accordingly dismissed.107