PETITIONER:BALA SUBRAHMANYA RAJARAM	Vs.RESPONDENT:B.C. PATIL AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:19/03/1958BENCH:BOSE, VIVIANBENCH:BOSE, VIVIANIMAM, SYED JAFFERSUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  518		  1958 SCR 1504ACT:Wages-If  include bonus awarded by Industrial  Court-Paymentof Wages Act (IV of 1936), S. 2(vi), 15.HEADNOTE:The  Industrial Court, Bombay, awarded bonus equal to 4	 1/2months'	 wages to the operatives of the Tata Mills Ltd.	 anddirected  that	those operatives who were no longer  in	 theservice	 of the Mills should be paid the bonus in  one	lumpsum  by	 a fixed date and in such cases	 claims	 in  writingshould be made to the Manager of the Mills.  The  operativeswho  made a claim before the date fixed were duly  paid	 butpayment	 was  refused to operatives who applied	 after	thatdate.	The  operatives who had been  refused  payment	madeapplications  to  the Authority under the Payment  of  WagesAct.   The  Mills  contended  that  the	 Authority  had	  nojurisdiction   to   entertain  the  application,   but	 thecontention  was rejected.  The Mills filed a  writ  petitionbefore the Bombay High Court which was dismissed by a Singlejudge and an appeal against that decision was also dismissedby a Division Bench:Held, that the bonus awarded by the Industrial Court was notwages within the meaning of S. 2(Vi) of the Payment of WagesAct  and  as  such  the Authority  had	no  jurisdiction  toentertain  the	applications made to it under s. I5  of	 theAct.   Though  such  bonus  was	 remuneration  it  was	 notremuneration  payable on the fulfilment of the terms of	 thecontract  of employment, express or implied, as required  byS. 2(vi).F.   W. Heilgers & Co. v. N. C. Chakravarthi, [1949]  F.C.R.356, followed.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 35 & 36  of1954.1505Appeals from the judgments and order dated August 28,  1952,of the Bombay High Court in Appeals Nos. 34 and 35 of  1952,arising	 out  of the orders dated January 24, 1952,  of	 thesaid  High Court exercising its Civil Original	Jurisdictionin Misc.  Applications Nos. 302 of 1951 and 303, 304 and 305of 1951 respectively.R.   J. Kolah, B. Narayanaswami, J. B. Dadachanji, S.  N.Andley and Rameshwar Nath, for the appellant.H.   N.	 Sanyal,  Addl.	 Solicitor-General of India,  N.  P.Nathwani and R. H. Dhebar, for respondent No.	  3 in C.  A35 & No. 5 in C. A. 36.D. H. Buch and Naunit Lal, for respondent No. 2 in C. A.  35& Nos. 2-4 in C. A. 36.1958.  March 19.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byBOSE  J.-These	appeals arise out of petitions made  to	 theBombay High Court under Art. 226 for writs of certiorari.The  appellant	is the manager of the  Tata  Mills  Limited,which  carries	on business in the manufacture and  sale  oftextile	 goods in Bombay and as such is responsible for	 thepayment of wages under the Payment of Wages Act, 1936.The first respondent was the Authority under the Payment  ofWages Act at the times material to these appeals.  The sixthrespondent  is	the  present Authority.	  The  Authority  isentrusted with the duty of deciding cases falling within thepurview of the Act.The   second,  third,  fourth  and  fifth  respondents	 areemployees in the Mills.A dispute arose about a claim made by the operatives of	 theMills  for a bonus for the year 1948.  This was referred  tothe Industrial Court at Bombay which made an award on  April23, 1949, and awarded a bonus equivalent to four and a	halfmonths'	 wages subject to certain conditions of	 which	onlythe sixth is material here.  It runs as follows:" Persons who are eligible for bonus but who are1506not  in the service of the Mill on the date of	the  paymentshall be paid in one lump sum by the 30th November 1949.  Insuch cases, claims in writing should be made to the  Managerof the Mill concerned."Those  operatives  who made a claim before  the	 date  fixedabove  were duly paid but payment was refused to  the  thirdrespondent,  who applied much later, on the ground that	 thecondition  subject  to	which the award	 was  made  was	 notfulfilled.The  third respondent thereupon made an	 application  beforethe  first  respondent, the Authority under the	 Payment  ofWages Act.Similar	 claims	 were made by the second, fourth  and  fifthrespondents for a bonus for the year 1949.  The,  IndustrialCourt awarded a bonus equal to two months' wages and in	 thesixth condition put the date as December 31, 1950.By this time Labour Appellate Tribunals came into existence,so both sides filed appeals against the award to the  LabourAppellate  Tribunal of Bombay.	The appeals failed  and	 theaward was upheld.After	that,	the  matter  followed  the   same   pattern.Respondents  2,	 4  and	 5 applied  for	 their	bonus  afterDecember  31,  1950.   The Mills refused to  pay  and  theserespondents  applied to the first respondent, the  Authorityunder the Payment of Wages Act.The  two  sets of claims, that is to say, the claim  of	 thethird  respondent  for	a bonus for the year  1948  and	 theclaims	of  the	 second, fourth and  fifth  respondents	 forbonuses for the year 1949, were heard together.The  appellant contested these applications on two  grounds.He questioned the jurisdiction of the Authority to entertainthe  petitions made to it.  He also contended that,  in	 anyevent, as the condition subject to which the award was made,namely,	 an application on or before November 30, 1949,	 wasnot fulfilled, the claim for a bonus did not lie.The  first  respondent held that it  had  jurisdiction	and,after hearing the parties on the merits, decreed the variousclaims.1507The  appellant	thereupon filed writ petitions in  the	HighCourt.	They were heard and dismissed by Coyajee J.An appeal was then filed in the same High Court and heard bythe  Chief  Justice  and  Bhagwati J.  They  held  that	 thequestions  raised  were covered by an  earlier	decision  oftheirs in another case dated March 11, 1952, and,  followingthat decision, dismissed the appeals without hearing furtherarguments,  as counsel on both sides agreed that the  matterwas  covered  by the earlier decision.	The  appellant	thenapplied	 for a certificate for leave to appeal	here.	Thiswas  granted  by Chagla C. J. and Dixit J.  on	February  2,1953.The  first  question that we have to decide is	whether	 thefirst respondent had jurisdiction to entertain the petitionsmade to him as the Authority under the Payment of Wages Act.This  depends on whether these bonuses are " wages "  withinthe meaning of the definition in s. 2(vi) of the Act.The  scope of the Authority's jurisdiction is set out in  s.15 of the Act.	It is to bear and decide(1)all claims arising out of deduction from wages, and (2) all claims regarding delay in the payment of wages.Therefore,  unless  these bonuses are " wages "	 within	 themeaning of the Act, the Authority will have no jurisdiction.The  definition of " wages " in s. 2(vi) of the Act is	longand complicated but leaving aside the clauses in it that arenot material for our present purpose,it runs-"  'Wages' means all remuneration............. which  would,if  the	 terms	of the contract of  employment,	 express  orimplied,  were fulfilled, be payable, whether  conditionallyupon  regular  attendance,  good work or  conduct  or  otherbehaviour of the person employed, or otherwise, to a  personemployed  in  respect of his employment or of work  done  insuch employment, and includes any bonus or other  additionalremuneration 1911911508of  the nature aforesaid which would be so payable  and	 anysum  payable to such person by reason of the termination  ofhis employment, but does not include............... and thenfive matters that are not included are set out.Now  consider  this clause by clause.  "' Wages'  means	 allremuneration."	Is  bonus a remuneration ?  We think  it  isRemuneration  is only a more formal version of "  payment  "and payment is a recompense for service rendered.Now  it is true that bonus in the abstract need not  be	 forservices   rendered  and  in  that  sense  need	 not  be   aremuneration; for example, there is a shareholder's bonus incertain	 companies, and there is a life insurance bonus	 andso  forth.  But that is not the kind of	 bonus	contemplatedhere  because the kind of remuneration that  the  definitioncontemplates is one that is payable"  in  respect	of his employment or of work  done  in	suchemployment."Therefore,  the	 kind  of bonus that  this  definition	con-templates is one that is remuneration for services  renderedor work done.  Accordingly, it is a " remuneration " and  asthe  definition	 includes all remuneration  of	a  specifiedkind, we are of opinion that bonus of the kind	contemplatedhere  falls  within  the  clause that  says  it	 must  be  "remuneration ".Next  comes a clause that limits the kind  of  remuneration,for,  though the opening words are " all remuneration "	 thewords  that follow limit it to all remuneration of the	kindspecified in the next clause, that is, to remuneration"  which  would be payable if the terms of the	contract  ofemployment, express or -implied, were fulfilled.  "Now  the question is whether the kind of bonus	contemplatedby  this  definition must be a bonus that is  payable  as  aclause	of the contract of employment.	We think it is,	 andfor this reason.If we equate " bonus " with " remuneration ", the1509definition  says clearly enough that the bonus must be	suchthat  it  is  payable  "if the terms  of  the  contract	 arefulfilled",  that is to say, it will not be payable  if	 theterms are not fulfilled.Now,  we can understand a position where a statute  declaresthat  whenever the terms of the contract of  employment	 arefulfilled  the	bonus  shall be	 payable;  equally,  we	 canenvisage  a situation in which an employer engages to pay  abonus  should  the terms of the contract  of  employment  befulfilled,  by a separate and independent agreement that  isriot  part of the contract of employment.  In  either  case,the  matter  could be said to fall within this part  of	 thedefinition.   But we can see no way in which a bonus can  besaid to be payable if and when the terms of the contract  ofemployment  are fulfilled outside these two  cases  (namely,legislation, or a separate contract that is not part of	 thecontract of employment), except when it is payable by reasonof a term, express or implied, in the contract of employmentitself.	 In any event, if there are such cases, the  presentis  not one of them, for the bonus here is payable under  anaward of an Industrial Court and has nothing to do with	 thefulfilment  or	otherwise of the terms of  the	contract  ofemployment, except indirectly.It was argued that as an Industrial Court can direct paymentof bonus should an industrial dispute arise in that  behalf,the  matter falls within the definition.  But does it ?	 Oneof  the	 matters that an Industrial Court  might  take	intoconsideration  before  awarding a bonus is whether  all	 theterms of the contract of employment have been duly fulfilledand it is possible that such a Court might refuse to award abonus  in cases where the terms were not fulfilled,  but  itwould not be bound by such a consideration and its right  tomake an award of bonus is not conditional on the  fulfilmentof  the terms of the contract of employment, whereas,  underthe definition, that is an essential ingredient.  Therefore,even  if  due  fulfilment of the terms of  the	contract  ofemployment  was to be one of the reasons for the award,	 thebonus  so awarded would not be payable because the terms  ofthe contract1510had been fulfilled but because of an industrial dispute	 andbecause in order to settle it, the Court awarded the bonus.It  is not necessary to analyse the definition	any  further(except	 for  one  clause) because, even if  all  the  otheringredients are present, the clause we have just  consideredwould  exclude a bonus of the kind we have here, that is  tosay, a bonus awarded by an Industrial Court.The  clause we have yet to examine is this:" and includes any bonus or other additional remuneration ofthe nature aforesaid which would be so payable."It  was contended that the words " and includes any bonus  "stand  by themselves and that the words that follow must  bedisregarded  when bonus is under consideration because	theyrelate	only  to "additional remuneration " and	 riot  to  "bonus ".Now,  it  may  be possible to say that the words  "  of	 thenature	aforesaid  "  only govern  the	words  "  additionalremuneration  " and that they do not apply to "bonus",	withthe  result  that the inclusion clause "  and  includes	 anybonus etc." would refer to two separate things, namely,(1) bonus and(2)other  additional remuneration of the  nature  aforesaid.In our opinion, the clause means-(1)  "bonus.................. which would be so	 payable  ",and(2)"  other additional remuneration of the nature  aforesaidwhich would be so payable."If  that  is  correct, then the words " which  would  be  sopayable	 "  throw  us  back  to	 the  earlier  part  of	 thedefinition and we reach the position that the kind of  bonusthat  is included by the inclusion clause is the  kind	thatwould  be  payable  "  if  the	terms  of  the	contract  ofemployment, express or implied, are fulfilled."There  is another reason for reaching this conclusion.	 Theopening words of the definition make it clear that " wages "means  remuneration  that is payable when the terms  of	 thecontract  of employment are fulfilled.	Therefore,  that  issomething certain.1511One  knows ahead of time that if the terms of  the  contractare  fulfilled, then the bonus is payable.  It may  be	thatthe exact amount has yet to be determined but the fact	thatbonus is payable and can be claimed as soon as the terms  ofthe  contract  are  fulfilled  is  a  matter  that  can	  bepredicated beforehand, that is to say, even before the termsof  the contract are fulfilled, or indeed, even	 before	 thework  has  started if the contract is made that	 far  ahead.But  that  is  not  the case when bonus	 is  awarded  by  anIndustrial Court, for there it is impossible to say ahead oftime  whether bonus will be awarded or not; indeed,  at	 thetime the contract is entered into, it would be impossible tosay  whether  such a claim could be laid at a II  because  adifference  of opinion between one worker and  his  employerabout  the right to bonus would Dot necessarily lead  to  anindustrial  dispute.   When  an Industrial  Court  awards  abonus, independent of any contract, it does so only if thereis an available surplus for a distribution of bonus and	 theamount	of  the	 award would depend on	the  extent  of	 thesurplus	  available  for  that	purpose.    Therefore,	 thefulfilment  or	otherwise of the terms of  the	contract  ofemployment is not an essential ingredient of an award of  anIndustrial Court.In  F. W. Heilgers & Co. v. N. C. Chakravarthi	the  learnedJudges	of the Federal Court held that a bonus	not  payableunder  a  contract of employment does not  fall	 within	 thedefinition  of "wages" in s. 2(vi) of the Payment  of  WagesAct,  as  it  stood before the amendment in  1957.   We	 areconcerned  with the old definition here and not the  amendedone, so the present case is, in our opinion, covered by thatauthority.It is true that no bonus had been awarded in Heilgers'	case(1) and that therefore there was no ascertained sum, whereasthere  is one in the present case, or rather a sum  that  isascertainable, but that was only one of the grounds on whichthe  learned Judges proceeded.	They held that in  order  tobring a particular(1)  [1949] F.C. R. 356, 360.1512payment	 under	the definition of "wages",  two	 things	 arenecessary-" (1) a definite sum, and(2)  a contract indicating when the sum becomes payable ";and they said-"  It is obvious that unless there is an  express  provisionfor  paying a stipulated sum, the definition will not  coversuch a payment."The  bonus in the present case is not payable because  of  acontract  but because of the award of an  Industrial  Court.Therefore, according to the Federal Court, it is not " wages" within the meaning of the Payment of Wages Act.In  1957  the definition was amended and the  following	 wasadded:"  wages' means	 and includes(c)  any additional remuneration payable under the terms  ofemployment (whether called a bonus or by any other name);but does not include----(1)  any bonus (whether under a scheme of profit sharing  orotherwise) which does not form part of remuneration  payableunder the terms of employmentThe  change  would have been unnecessary had  the  law	beenotherwise  under the old definition; nor is it	possible  tosay  that  the clause was added by way of  abundant  cautionbecause	 the  Federal Court decided otherwise in  1949.	  Inview  of this amendment, and in view of the Federal  Court'sdecision,  we  do not feel justified in taking	a  differentview, especially as we think the decision was right.The  learned  Judges  of  the Bombay  High  Court  tried  todistinguish the Federal Court's judgment on the ground	thatno  bonus  had	been declared there and	 ,so  there  was  noascertained  sum, but, as we have pointed out, the ratio  ofthe decision covers the present case and, in any case,	thatis our view quite apart from their conclusion.1513On  this  view, it is not necessary to	consider  the  otherpoints that were argued because, if the definition of  wages",  as it stood before the amendment, is not wide enough  toinclude	 a  bonus  of the kind we  have	 here,	namely,	 onepayable	 under	an award of an Industrial Court,  then,	 theAuthority under the Payment of Wages Act had no jurisdictionto  entertain  the petitions made to it under s. 15  of	 theAct.The  appeals are allowed with costs.  The decisions  of	 thelearned High Court Judges are set aside and also the decreesof the Authority under the Payment of Wages Act.  There willbe only one set of costs.Appeals allowed.