PETITIONER:DHARMANAND PANT	Vs.RESPONDENT:STATE OF UTTAR PRADESHDATE OF JUDGMENT:30/01/1956BENCH:MENON, P. GOVINDABENCH:MENON, P. GOVINDAJAGANNADHADAS, B.IMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1957 AIR  594		  1957 SCR  321ACT:Criminal  trial-Examination  of	 Prosecution  witnesses	  oncommission -Propriety-Procedure-Code of Criminal  Procedure,ss. 503 and 5o6.HEADNOTE:As  a  general rule in criminal proceedings,  the  importantwitmesses  on whose testimony the case against	the  accusedhas to be established must be examined in Court and  usuallythe  issuing  of commission should-be restricted  to  formalwitnesses or to such41322witnesses who cannot be produced without unreasonable  delayor  inconvenience.  The evidence against the accused  shouldbe  recorded in his presence and in open Court so  that	 theaccused may have an opportunity to effectively cross examinethe  witnesses	and  the  presiding  officer  may  have	 theadvantage  and opportunity of hearing the witnesses  and  ofnoting their demeanour.	 Witnesses should not be examined oncommission  except  in extreme cases of	 delay,	 expense  orinconvenience  and  in particular  the	examination  throughinterrogatories	 should be resorted to only  in	 unavoidablecases.Before the amendment of S. 503, Code of Criminal  Procedure,by s. 97, Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment) Act, (26 of1955),	no magistrate other than a District Magistrate or  aPresidency  Magistrate could issue a commission, and if	 anysubordinate Magistrate found it necessary to have a  witnessexamined  on  commission  he had to apply  to  the  DistrictMagistrate  who would either issue the commission or  rejectthe application.Therefore  in  a  case where important	witnesses  had	beenexamined  on  commission through  interrogatories,  and	 theorder  for the examination on commission had been passed  bythe  trying magistrate and not by the  District	 Magistrate,the Court set aside the conviction and sentence and  ordereda retrial.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION	  Criminal Appeal No. 50  of1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJune 7, 1954, of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal AppealNo. 1115 of 1952 arising out of the judgment and order datedApril 14, 1952, of the Court of the Judicial Officer 11	 andMagistrate  1st Class at Almora in Criminal Case No.  271/19of 1950.S.   P. Sinha and P. K. Chatterjee, for the appellant.G.   C. Mathur and C. P. Lal, for the respondent.1957.  January 30.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyGOVINDA MENON J.-The police charge sheet dated November	 13,1949,  which  originated the proceedings out of	 which	thisappeal has arisen, was to the effect that the appellant, theHead  Clerk  of	 the  Civil  Surgeon's	office	at   Almora,misappropriated	 a  sum of money entrusted to him  during  aportion	 of the period he was functioning as Head  ,  Clerk.Though the charge-sheet did not specifically state the exactMount misappropriated, the matter was cleared up			    323when the charge against him under s. 409, Indian Penal Code,was  framed,  namely, that between September 26,  1947,	 andFebruary  11, 1948, he in his capacity as a public  servant,having	been  entrusted	 with  Rs.  1,118-10-9,	  -committedcriminal breach of trust in respect of that amount.  This isalso  evident  from  the amounts detailed  in  column  3  ofquestion  2  that had been put to him by the  learned  trialMagistrate.   The trial court found that on account  of	 theimp  roper and unsatisfactory state of affairs in which theaccounts were kept in the Civil Surgeon's office,for   whichnot only the accused but two successive Civil Surgeons	wereresponsible, no offence has been brought home to the accusedand,  therefore, he was acquitted.  The State  preferred  anappeal to the High Court of Allahabad which by its  judgmentdated  June  7,	 1954, set aside the  acquittal,  found	 theaccused	 guilty	 of an offence under s. 409  of	 the  IndianPenal Code, and sentenced him to rigorous imprisonment for aperiod of three months.	 On an application to this court forspecial	 leave under Art. 136 (1) (c) of  the  Constitution,the  same was granted by the order dated July 30, 1954,	 andit is in pursuance to the special leave so granted that	 theappeal is before us.It  will be useful and necessary to give a brief  resume  ofthe  events which led up to the order of the High  Court  ofAllahabad,  referred to above The  alleged  misappropriationwas  detected  some time in March, 1948, when Messrs  May  &Baker  Ltd., sent a reminder to the Civil Surgeon,,  Almora,to  the effect that certain bills of theirs were unpaid	 andoutstanding.   Thereupon  the then Civil Surgeon,  Dr.	Kar,enquired  into the matter and found that the appellant,	 whowas  Head  Clerk  when he took charge,	was  on	 leave.	  Onsending	 an  intimation	 to  the  appellant  to	 submit	  anexplanation, the latter sent a letter Exhibit P. 8 on  March5, 1948, containing certain statements which the prosecutionalleges-showed	that  the appellant was guilty	of  criminalmisappropriation.Thereafter, according to the prosecution, the money  allegedto   have  been	 misappropriated  was  recovered  from	 theappellant and paid in March, 1948, to the324firms whose bills were outstanding but which had been  shownas  having  been paid in the accounts.	The matter  was	 putinto  the  hands  of the police for  investigation  only  inJune,. 1949, when the Deputy Commissioner of Almora  orderedthe Deputy Superintendent of Police to look into the matter.-After	investigation, a charge-sheet was filed on  November13, 1949, and the case was finally submitted by the S. P. 0.Almora,	 on  July 10, 1950, and was received in	 court	sometime  later, the exact date of which does not,	appear	fromthe  records.  A case was registered in the court of the  S.D,  M. Almora, on August 7, 1950, against the accused  unders. 409 of the Indian Penal Code.  Thereafter, witnesses weresummoned but no witness seems to have been examined for sometime.  The  order-sheet dated November 7, 1950,	 shows	thatwhen  the file was submitted, the S. P. 0, the	accused	 andAdvocates appeared in court, but as the necessary papers hadto  be requisitioned from the Accountant  General's  office,the  case was adjourned to November 14, 1950, and the S.  P.0. Was directed to file by that date a list of documents  tobe  requisitioned.   Nothing  seems to	have  been  done  onNovember 14, 1950, and the matter was postponed to  November30, 1950, and on that date the District Government  counsel,engaged	 in  the,  case, stated that the  documents  in	 theAccountant  General's office would have to be  summoned	 andexamined.   As the Magistrate was of opinion that it was  anindefinite thing, he consigned the file under s. 249 of	 theCriminal  Procedure  Code,  to	the  record  room  with	 thedirection that it would be taken out when the documents wereavailable.   It has not been explained before us how s.	 249of  the Criminal Procedure Code could be applied to  a	caselike  this, nor is it applicable to cases falling under	 theChapter dealing in the warrant cases; but one thing is clearthat  after November 30, 1950, the case seems to  have	beendropped	 for a fairly long time.  Evidently the	 prosecutionwas  not  ready and might not probably	have  been  serious.Thereafter  on	June  4,  1951,	 the  District	 Government.Counsel	 applied  to  the  S.  D.,  M.	for  summoning	somewitnesses for examination on325June  15, 1951, and -the same was ordered.  The	 proceedingswere  then transferred to the Judicial Officer, Almora,	 whobegan  the  examination of witnesses on June 16,  1951.	  Heexamined P. W. I (Shib Lal Tewari) on June 16, 1951, P. W. 2(Bishun Singh) on August 21, 1951, P. W. 3 (Mohan Singh)  onthe same date, P. W. 4 (Shiv Lal Sah) and P. W. 5 (D.  N.Pandey) on October 25, 1951, and Hira Lal (P.	  W.  6)  onNovember  10, 1951.  In the meantime on September  1,  1951,the  District  Government counsel applied to the  court	 Torexamining  three  witnesses on behalf  of  the	prosecution,namely Dr. D. M. Kar, Sri R. P. Kapoor and D. N. Pandey	 andthe  Magistrate directed summonses to issue to them  on	 thesame  date.  It is seen from the records. that on  September7,  1951,  the Magistrate received a letter from  the  CivilSurgeon	 at Allahabad, that the Magistrate's certificate  isnecessary under s. 507(2) of the Criminal Procedure Code ands. 33 of the Evidence Act to the effect that it is necessarythat  the  personal  attendance of the	medical	 officer  isdesirable,  and	 that  a commission  should  not  issue	 forexamination for those witnesses.  The letter further  statedthat  if  a commission could be arranged, the  same  may  bearranged  to record the evidence of D. M. Kar at  Allahabad.Neither -the counsel for the appellant here, nor Mr.  Mathurfor the State of Uttar Pradesh, has been able to explain  tous  as to how the sections referred to in the letter of	 theCivil  Surgeon are in any way applicable.  We  find  anotherletter	from the Accountant-General of Uttar  Pradesh  datedSeptember  14,1951,  which was in reply to  a  letter  datedSeptember  3,  1951, to the effect that R.  P.	Kapoor,	 thesenior auditor of the Accountant General's office, had	beendirected to attend court on september 19, 195 1, but he	 wasnot  authorised,  to  give  evidence  from  the	 unpublishedrecords	  of  the  Accountant-General's	 office	 for   whichprivilege was, claimed under s. 123 of the Evidence Act.  OnOctober 16, 1951, the appellant put in an application to theMagistrate  stating that the case had, been going on   sinceMarch,	1948,  and   on	 account  of  the  long	 drawn	 outproceedings he was greatly harassed and requested326that  the matter may be decided quickly.  In this  state  ofcircumstances,	the  District Government counsel put  in  anapplication on October 26, 1951, stating that permission maybe   given  to	examine	 three	witnesses   on	 commission.Nevertheless, it also stated that the case had been  pendingfor a long time.  The petition further referred to the	factthat the presence of Dr. D. M. Kar and R. P. Kapoor in courtwas  necessary.	 The Magistrate on the same date  passed  anorder that commission be issued to examine these  witnesses.On    October	29,   1951,   the   prosecution	   submittedinterrogatories	 for the examination of Dr. B. R.  Jain	 andSrimati	 Malti	Devi  Joshi.  On November  14,	195  1,	 theprosecution   submitted	  the	interrogatories	  for	 theexamination  of Sri G. R. K. Tandan, Sri  Lakahmi  Shaiikar,Sri Biswanath and M. N. Dube.  With regard to Dr. D. M. Kar,the  interrogatories  were filed in court  on  November	 10,1951.  -  On  November	12, 195 1, the	accused	 put  in  anapplication objecting to questions Nos. 5, 6 and 9 to be putto  Dr.	 D-  M.	 Kar on the ground  that  they	are  leadingquestions which cannot be put in examination' -in-chief	 andstating further that the appearance of Dr. D. M. Kar and SriKapoor	for  recording their evidence in person	 before	 thecourt  is necessary and their crossexamination in  court  bearranged  for  the purpose.  If that was not  possible,	 thecross-interrogatories  attached to the petition may be	sentalong  with the interrogatories. The learned  Magistrate  onthat  application madean order that the questions should  bemodified  in  adifferent language than what they  have	beenput.   The  cross-interrogatories to  these  witnesses	werefiled  on  subsequent  dates  the details  of  which  it  isunnecessary  to	 mention.   We	find  from  the	 record	  anapplication  by the prosecution with an order thereon  datedNovember  14,  1951, to the effect that in addition  to	 theimportant  witnesses for whose examination on commission  anapplication  had  been made, four more witnesses  should  beexamined in person.  The reason given by the prosecution wasthat the accused was anxious for an early judgment and hencethe request for examining the witnesses.  The prosecution			    327reiterated that the four witnesses mentioned therein may  besummoned  and  examined in person.  On this  the  Magistratepassed the following order :-"On  the  last date of hearing it was settled that  all	 theremaining P.Ws would be examined on commission, and on	thatunderstanding  the  questions  for'  Sri  Kapoor  were	alsosupplied  today.   But	if the prosecution  wants  that	 SriKapoor's  evidence  is so very necessary, I  give  only	 oneopportunity  to	 call  him to court for	 one  occasion.	  Heshould	be telegraphically informed to be present on  30-11-1951, and if he cannot be available for any reason, then theinterrogatories prepared by him be sent at once.  This	caseif;  hanging  on,  since a very long time. Only	 Sri  R.  P.Kapoor	can be called on the next day of hearing.   For	 allthe witnesses commission may be issued as they are being faraway from Almora."The result of these proceedings was that, among others,	 theimportant  witnesses such as the' two Civil Surgeons  duringwhose  period  the alleged misappropriation took  place,  aswell  as  the  auditor,	 were  examined	 on  commission	  byinterrogatories,  even	though the prosecution-as  also	 theaccused	 were  anxious that at least the most  important  ofthem should be examined in court.  The cross-interrogatoriessubmitted by the accused deal with the points raised in	 thequestions put in examination-in-chief.	The  interrogatorieswere  answered by the witnesses before the officer  to	whomthe  commission	 was issued and it is as the result  of	 theevidence so taken that the accused has been convicted.As  stated in the judgment of the High Court the defence  ofthe  accused was that the undisbursed amounts were  kept  inthe safe in the office and were disbursed on later occasionsthough	the  cash books showed that the	 disbursements	wereearlier.  In short, the case comes to this, that even thoughin  the cash books there have been entries of  disbursementson  particular	dates, the actual disbursements	 took  placelater  and during the intervening period the money  remainedin  the	 safe itself without the appellant  having  had	 anydominion  or  possession over the same.	 If that is  so,  noquestion of criminal misappropriation328would	arise.	 The  learned  Judges  of  the	High   Courtconsidered  this defence as unacceptable and in view of	 ,headmissions  contained  in  Ex.	 P.  8,	 they  came  to	 theConclusion that there has been -a temporary misappropriationof the amounts.	 In the view which we take in consequence ofthe arguments advanced before this court and the facts abovenoticed	 from the record, it has become unnecessary  and  infact inexpertness to express any opinion regarding the truthor  otherwise  on  either the  prosecution  version  or	 thedefence case.  At the stage at which the important witnessesfor  the  prosecution  were  directed  to  be  examined	  byinterrogatories on commission, it was evident that the	pleaof  the accused could not have been before the court and  noassumption  can be made as to how the case was going to	 getshaped later on.The question is whether in a prosecution like this where theHead  Clerk of a Civil Surgeon's office is  being  arraignedfor  criminal  breach of trust of sums during  a  particularperiod,	 and especially where the misappropriation, if	any,could  have  been  found out much earlier  if  the  superiorofficers had been prompt in checking the registers and doingthe duties assigned to them under the rules and	 regulationsgoverning  the office, it can be said that the trial  is  instrict consonance with established rules of practice and notin  violation  of the same, where the  important  witnesses'testimony has been obtained outside the court, which has  todeal with and determine the case.It  is	an established and cardinal  principle	of  Criminaljurisprudence  obtainable  in  all systems of  law  that  incriminal proceedings the evidence against the accused shouldbe  recorded in his presence and in open court so  that	 theaccused	 may  be  enabled to challenge	such  parts  of	 thestatement  which  he wishes to challenge and  the  presidingofficer	 may have the advantage and opportunity	 of  hearingthe witness in person, noting his demeanour and finding	 outfor  himself  on such observation whether what	the  witnessdeposes	 is  true or otherwise.	 There is also	the  furtheradvantage   faras  the accused is concerned of	testing	 thetruth  or  otherwise of the deposit's testimony	 by  cross'-examination			    329in  a public place -like a court and which may develop	frompoint  to  point effectively with reference to	the  answersthat  a witness gives.	But where on account  of  particularreasons	 it  is	 not possible to get  the  presence  of	 thewitness	 in court, the Criminal Procedure Code provides	 forexamination on commission which can be direct examination bycounsel	 'for the prosecution and cross-examination  by	 theaccused or his counsel.	 Section 503, as it stood before theamendment  of 1955, provided that where in the course of  aninquiry,  trial	 or  other proceeding  under  the  Code,  itappears to a High Court of Sessions, District Magistrate  orPresidency Magistrate, that the examination of a witness  isnecessary  for the ends of justice, and that the  attendanceof  such  witness cannot be procured without  an  amount  ofdelay,	 expense   or	inconvenience	which,	 under	 thecircumstances of the case, would be unreasonable, such courtor Magistrate may dispense with such attendance and issue  acommission for the examination of the witness in  accordancewith  the  provisions  of  that	 Chapter.   Sub-section	 (2)provided that if in the course of an inquiry, trial or otherproceeding under the Code before any Magistrate, other	thana  District Magistrate or Presidency Magistrate, it  appearsthat a commission ought to be issued for the examination  ofa  witness  whose  evidence is necessary  for  the  ends  ofjustice	 and that the attendance of such witness  cannot  beproduced   without   an	  amount  of   delay,	expense	  orinconvenience  which, under the circumstances of  the  case,would  be unreasonable, such Magistrate shall apply  to	 theDistrict Magistrate stating the reasons for the application;and  the District -Magistrate may either issue a  commissionor reject the application.  One of the methods provided	 forthe  examination of witnesses on commission is contained  ins. 506, of the Criminal Procedure Code, which is as follows:(1)The parties to any proceeding under this Code in which  acommission   is	  issued  may	respectively   forward	 anyinterrogatories	 in  writing which the court  or  Magistratedirecting  the commission may think relevant to	 the  issue,and it. shall be lawful for the42330Magistrate,  Court,  or officer to whom	 the  commission  isdirected, or to whom the duty of executing it is  delegated,to examine the witness upon such interrogatories;(2)Any such party may appear before such Magistrate,  court-or officer by pleader, or if not-in custody, in person,	 andmay, examine, cross-examine and re-examine (as- the case maybe) the said witness.By  the Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment) Act, XXVI  of1955,  in s. 97, for the words I District Magistrate or	 thePresidency Magistrate' in sub-s. (1) of s. 503 the words anyMagistr any were substituted and sub-s. (2) was omitted	 buta proviso was added to sub-s (1) which in the  circumstancesof  this case is unnecessary to refer to The result  of	 theamendment is that before the enactment of s. 97 of Act	XXVIof 1955 no Magistrate other than a District Magistrate or  aPresidency  Magistrate could issue a commission and  if	 anysuch subordinate Magistrate finds it expedient, necessary oressential  to have a witness examined on commission, he	 hasto  apply to the District Magistrate who will  either  issuethe  commission	 himself  or reject  the  application.	 TheDistrict Magistrate in issuing the commission, or  rejectingthe request is acting judicially and his orders are  subjectto  supervision and control by the appellate  or  revisionalcourt.On the assumption that the 'commission was regularly set  upby  an order of the District Magistrate as  contemplated  bythe  above provisions, the question is as to  whether  therewas  sufficient justification for deviating from the  normalpractice of examining witnesses in court.  We have not	beenshown  that  the attendance of the two Civil  Surgeons,	 as,well  as the auditor and the other, witness, could not	havebeen  procured	without an amount of delay, expense  or	 in-convenience  which,  under the circumstances  of  the  case,could be unreasonable, and nobody has suggested that the twoofficers  who had held the post of Civil Surgeon of  Almora,lived  at any other place than in, Uttar Pradesh, and  thereis not even a suggestion of gross inconvenience or delay andexpense	 unreasonable  in  the	circumstances  which   wouldjustify their being			    331kept  out of court.  If the Magistrate had issued  summonsesto  these,  witnesses  and found that it  was  difficult  toprocure	 their -attendance in the normal course	 of  things,then  he  could have Adopted the procedure  of	waiving	 theattendanice in Court.  Some attempt should have been made tofind  out  whether the normal practice would not  have	beenfollowed  and it, is only after the impossibility of such  aprocess	 is ascertained that a commission should  have	beenissued.	  The  mere  fact  that	 the  proceedings  have	 gotprotracted  for an extraordinary length of time for  reasonswhich  do not appear clearly on the record, but giving	roomfor  the impression that the higher officers concerned	werenot  prepared: to take the matter seriously in view  of	 theamount	having been made up-can by itself be -no ground	 forissuing	 a  commission; that is at best only  delay  in	 thedisposal  of  the  case,  and not  delay  in  obtaining	 theevidence of the witness in Court.  There appears no possiblejustification on the record for the issue of the  commissionand much more so for the issue of mere interrogatories.The  issuing  of  a  commission	 under	the  Code  of  CivilProcedure is govemed by ss. 75-78 and 0. XXVI, r. I of whichlays  down  the	 cases	in  which  lab	court  may  issue  acommission  to examine a witness.  Ordinarily when a  personresides	 within the local limits of the jurisdiction of	 thecourt  and  is not exempted under the  Code  from  attendingcourt or who is on account of sickness or infirmity,  unableto attend the court, he should be examined in court.   Underthe  Civil,Procedure  Code ss. 75-78 and 0. XXVI,  r.  4,  awitness	 may be examined on commission if he is	 a  residentbeyond the local limits of its jurisdiction. or a person whois about to leave such limits before the date on which he isto  be examined in court,: -or any person in the service  ofthe Government who cannot in the opinion of the court attendwithout detriment to his public duties.	 No such limitationshave  been  imposed  for the  examination  of  witnesses  oncommission under the Code of Criminal Procedure.  But;	thatby itself should make the presiding officer observe  greatercare  and  caution  in issuing a  commission  to  examine  awitness, for, as332already	 stated,  it is the inherent  right  under  ordinarycircumstances  of every accused person to have the  evidenceagainst	 him recorded in open court and in his presence	 andwhere  any departure from that mode is necessary,  the	sameshould	be  limited to exceptional cases  and  the  CriminalProcedure Code provides how and where such discretion  oughtto be exercised.As early as in the case Queen-Empress v. T. Burke(1), it hasbeen held that it is not proper to allow the evidence of  animportant  witness  for	 the  prosecution  to  be  taken  oncommission  on the ground that it would be inconvenient	 forthe  witness to -attend court.	That ss. 503 and 506 of	 theCriminal Procedure Code should be used sparingly and only inthe clearest possible cases, has been laid down in  MohammadShafi  v. Empe(2), It is not necessary to refer to case	 lawon the point because the matter is one to be decided on	 thefacts in each case.  As, a general rule it may be said	thatthe important witnesses on whose testimony the case  againstthe  accused person has to be established, must be  examinedin  court and usually the issuing of a commission should  berestricted to formal witnesses or such witnesses who  could,not be produced without an amount of delay or  inconvenienceunreasonable in the circumstances of the case.	The idea  ofexamining witnesses on commission is primarily intended	 forgetting	 the  evidence	of  witnesses  other  than   partiesprincipally  interested such as a complainant or any  personwhose testimony is absolutely essential to prove the  prose-cution case.  In short, witnesses in a criminal case  shouldnot  be	 examined on commission except in extreme  cases  ofdelay,	expense	 or  inconvenience  and	 in  particular	 theprocedure  by way of interrogatories should be	resorted  inunavoidable  situations.  The discretion to be used  by	 theMagistrate  is a judicial one and should not be	 lightly  orarbitrarily exercised.In these circumstances, we have to note that the evidence ofthe two Civil Surgeons and that of the auditor would be	 thefoundation for the case against the appellant and that beingthe  case,  it	seems to us that they  ought  to  have	beenexamined in court.  As(1) I. L. R. (1884) 6 All. 224.(2) A.I.R. 1932 Patna 242.338we  are	 of  the  view that the	 Magistrate  has  acted	 im.properly  in  having  the essential  witnesses	examined  oncommission,  we	 feel that the accused has not	had  a	fairtrial..From  the review of the proceedings outlined above, it	alsodoes  not appear that the trying Magistrate  approached	 theDistrict  Magistrate with an application as contemplated  ina.  503(2),  Criminal Procedure Code.  In  response  to	 therequest	 of  the District standing counsel,  the  Magistratehimself	 directed that the commission should be	 issued,  asdesired	 on, October 26, 1951.	Further by the	order  datedNovember  12,  1951,  the  alleged  leading  questions	wereordered to be modified and presented in a style: and dictionwhich  would  cure the defect of the leading nature  of	 thequestions.   The  order dated November 14, 195 1,  does	 notalso  show that there was any attempt made to  approach	 theDistrict  Magistrate,  for we find in  the  order-sheet	 theremarks	 of  the Magistrate, mentioned above at	 an  earlierstage.We  have ourselves examined the original records called	 forfrom  the lower courts and the result of our scrutiny  comesto  this.  In continuation of the order made by	 the  tryingMagistrate dated October 26, 1951, that commissions will  beissued	as  desired, on November 19, 1951,  he	has  himselfissued	a  commission to examine the witnesses	as  requiredunder  ss.  503	 and 506,  Criminal  Procedure,	 Code.	 Thesummons	  has  emanated	 from  the  Judicial   Officer	 II,Magistrate  1st	 Class, Almora, addressed  to  the  DistrictMagistrate,  Lucknow,  stating I It was	 necessary  for	 thepurpose	 of  the trial to examine the person  named  in	 themargin	as a witness on behalf of the prosecution  and	the,District Magistrate, Lucknow, is appointed Commissioner withauthority  under  the provisions of ss. 503 and 506  of	 theCriminal  Procedure Code to examine and cross.	examine	 thesaid  witness  upon interrogatories, etc.' The	summons	 hasbeen  submitted	 to  the District  Magistrate,	Almora,	 forfavour	 of  forwarding	 the  commission  to  the   DistrictMagistrate, Lucknow, for execution.  Similarly the summonsesto exame other witnesses on commission on the same date havealso been334issued and all of them have been despatched to the  DistrictMagistrate  Lucknow, for the purpose of complying  with	 thecommission.  It is nowhere seen that the District Magistrateof Almora has exercised his independent judgment or judicialdiscretion  as contemplated in the last clauseof sub-s.	 (2)to  a, 503, Criminal Procedure Code, as to whether any	suchcommission should issue or not.	 What the Code	contemplatesis  that the District Magistrate to whom the  trying  Magis-trate  submits	a request for issuing a	 commission,  shouldhimself	 issue the commission or reject the application.  itabo  says  that the applying.  Magistrate should  state	 thereasons for the application.  We do not find from the recordanything to show that :the District Magistrate; Almora,	 whounder  the  Code  ought -to be the  authority  issuing	the'commission,  has complied with the imperative provisions  ofthe  Code.  All that can be gleaned from the record is	thatthe  District  Magistrate  Almora, has	simply	acted  as  aforwarding  authority for sending the commission  issued  bythe  trying  Magistrate.,  In the present  case,  as  statedalready	 the  District	Magistrate, Almora,  had  the  powereither	to accept the request of the trying  Magistrate	 andissue  the commission or reject the same, and an order	madeeither	way should be a judicial one after  considering	 thematter	in its entirety.  No such thing seems to  have	beendone.	Such being the case, we are constrained	 to  observethat an elementary rule of Practice essential for justifyingthe examination of witnesses on interrogatories has not beenconformed  to.	 The point is of vital	importance  for	 thereason that if the essential pre-requisite for the  validityof  the issuing of a commission has not been complied  with,the  evidence  so taken would be improper and could  not  beused  against the accused.  This is a defect which  goes  tothe i root of the matter and is vital in content.  Thus	 theentire	proceedings  are vitiated and the  evidence  of	 thewitnesses  taken  on commission will have to  be  completelyeschewed from the record. We,  therefore,  allow the appeal and remit  the  case	 forretrial, according to law, to the court of first instance inthe light of abservations 'Made above.	It will not be335necessary to re-examine the witnesses who have already	beenexamined in court unless the court thinks it necessary.Appeal allows.	Case remanded for retrial.