PETITIONER:THE STATE OF BIHAR	Vs.RESPONDENT:D. N. GANGULY & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:22/08/1958BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR 1018		  1959 SCR 1191ACT:       Industrial  Dispute-Supersession	 of  adjudication   Pending       before  industrial  tribunal-Validity-power  of	appropriate       Government  Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947),	 S.       10(1)-General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897), s. 21.HEADNOTE:Section 10(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, does notconfer on the appropriate Government the power to cancel  orsupersede  a  reference	 made thereunder in  respect  of  anindustrial  dispute  pending adjudication  by  the  tribunalconstituted for that purpose.  Nor can s. 21 of the  GeneralClauses	  Act,	1897,  vest  such  a  power   by   necessaryimplication.It is well settled that the rule of construction embodied inS. 21 of the General Clauses Act can apply to the provisionsof  a  statute only where the subject  matter,	context	 andeffect	of such provisions are in no way  inconsistent	withsuch  application.  So judged it is clear that that  sectioncannot apply to s. 10(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act.Minerva	 Mills Ltd. v. Their Workmen, [1954] S. C.  R.	465,held inapplicable.1192Strawboard  Manufacturing  Co. Ltd. v. Gutta  Mill  Workers'Union, [1953] S. C. R. 439, explained.The Textile Workers' Union, Amritsar v. The State of  Punjaband others, A. I. R. 1957 pun. 255 and Hayendranath Bose  v.Second Industrial Tribunal, [1958] 2 L.L.J. 198, overruled.South  Indian  Estate Labour Relations Organisation  v.	 TheState of Madras, A.I.R. 1955 Mad. 45, distinguished.Consequently,  where  the  appropriate	Government  by	 twonotifications,	issued	one after the  other,  referred	 twoindustrial disputes between two batches of workmen and theiremployer   for	adjudication  to  the  industrial   tribunalconstituted  for  that purpose and, thereafter, by  a  thirdnotification  superseded the two earlier  notifications	 andthe High Court, on the applications of both the workmen	 andthe  employer under Arts. 226 and 227 of  the  Constitution,issued	a writ of certiorari quashing that notification	 andby  a  writ  of mandamus required the  tribunal	 to  proceedexpeditiously	with  the  two	references  and	 the   StateGovernment appealed:Held,  that the impugned notification was invalid and  ultravires'and the finding of the High Court must be affirmed.Held, further, that since a reference under s. 10(1) of	 theIndustrial   Disputes	Act  was  in  the   nature   of	  anadministrative act, the more appropriate writ to issue wouldbe one of mandamus and not one in the nature of certiorari.The  State of Madras v. C. P. Sarathy, [1953] S. C. R.	334,referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 358 and 359of 1957.Appeals by special leave from the judgment and decree  datedApril 4, 1956, of the Patna High Court in M. J. C. Nos.	 546and 590 of 1955.J.   N.	 Banerjee  and R. C. Prasad, for the  appellant	 (Inboth appeals).Basanta	  Chandra  Ghose  I  and  P.  K.   Chatterjee,	 forrespondents Nos. 1-10 & 12-57 in C. A. No. 358/57.M.   C.	  Setalvad,   Attorney-General	 of   India,   NooniChakraverty and B. P. Maheshwari, for respondent No. 59 in CA. No. 358/57 and Respdt.  No. 1 in C. A. No. 359/57.R.Patnaik,  for respondent No. 63 in C.A. No. 359/57.  1958.August 22.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered by1193GAJENDRAGADKAR	J.-Where  an  industrial  dispute  has	beenreferred  to a tribunal for adjudication by the	 appropriategovernment  under s. 10 (1) (d) of the	Industrial  DisputesAct, 1947, (XIV of 1947), can the said government  supersedethe said reference pending adjudication before the  tribunalconstituted  for that purpose ? That is the  short  questionwhich falls to be considered in these two appeals by specialleave.	The question arises in this way: On October 8, 1954,by Notification No. III/DI-1602 /54-L-15225, the  governmentof   Bihar  referred  an  industrial  dispute  between	 themanagement of the Bata Shoe Co. Ltd., Digbaghat (Patna), andtheir 31 workmen, mentioned in annexure I A', in exercise ofthe  powers  conferred on the said government by s.  7	readwith  s.  10(1)	 of the Act.  The dispute  was	whether	 thedismissal of the workmen in question was justified; if	not,whether	 they  were entitled to reinstatement or  any  otherrelief	For the adjudication of this dispute, an  industrialtribunal with Mr. Ali Hassan as the sole member was  consti-tuted.	This was reference No. 10 of 1954.  Then, on January15,1955,  by  Notification  No.	 III/DI-1601/55	 L.  696,  asimilar industrial dispute between the same Bata Company andits 29 other workmen was referred by the government of Biharto  the	 same tribunal.	 This was reference No. I  of  1955.While  the  proceedings in respect of  the  two	 references,which  had been consolidated by the tribunal,  were  pendingbefore	it  and had made some progress,	 the  government  ofBihar issued a third Notification No. III/Di-1601/55-L-13028on  September 17, 1955, by which it purported  to  supersedethe  two  earlier  notifications, to combine  the  said	 twodisputes  into	one  dispute, to implead  the  two  sets  ofworkmen involved in the two said disputes together, to,	 addthe  Bata Mazdoor 'Union to the dispute, and to refer it  tothe  adjudication  of  the industrial tribunal	of  Mr.	 AliHassan	as  the sole member.  The dispute thus	referred  tothe  .	tribunal  was, " Whether the  dismissal	 of  the  60workmen,  mentioned  in	 annexure  'B',	 was  justified	  orunjustified;  and to what relief, if any, those workmen	 areentitled  ?" On receipt of this notification,  the  tribunalpassed an1194order  on September 19, 1955, cancelling the hearing of	 thetwo  prior  references which had been fixed for	 October  3,1955,  and directing that the files of the  said  referencesshould be closed.The  Bata  Company and its workmen then filed  two  separateapplications  before the High Court of Judicature  at  Patnaunder  articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution	 and  prayedthat  the  last	 notification should  be  quashed  as  beingillegal	 and  ultra 'vires.  These.  two  applications	werenumbered as M. J. C. Nos. 546 and 590 of 1955  respectively.On April 4, 1956, the High Court held that the government ofBihar  had  no power or authority to supersede	the  earliernotifications,	allowed both the applications and  issued  awrit  in  the  nature of  certiorai  quashing  the  impugnednotification  of September 17, 1955, and also a writ in	 thenature	of  mandamus requiring the  industrial	tribunal  toproceed	 expeditiously with reference-cases Nos. 10 of	1954and  I	of  1955  and to -bring	 them  to  a  conclusion  inaccordance  with law.  Against this order the government  ofBihar applied for and obtained leave from this court on June26, 1956.  That is how the two present appeals have come fordisposal before US.In  both  the appeals, the appellant is the State  of  Biharand.  the respondents are the Bata Company and	its  workmenrespectively.	On  behalf  of the appellant,  it  is  urgedbefore	us  that  the High Court at patna was  in  error  inholding	 that  the  government	of Bihar  had  no  power  orauthority to set aside the two earlier notifications and  torefer  the  dispute  in question  for  adjudication  to	 theindustrial tribunal under s. 10(1) of the Act.In  order  to  appreciate the background  of  the,  impugnednotification, it would be relevant, to mention some materialfacts.	It appears that the workmen of the company's factoryat Digha formed a, union at the close of the last World War.The president of the said union was Mr. John and its generalsecretary was Mr. Fateh Narain Singh. -On June 22, 1947, thecompany	 entered into a collective agreement with  the	said-union and by mutual consent the Standing Orders and1195Rules,	certified under the Industrial Employment  (StandingOrders) Act of 1946, were settled.  The union was recognisedas  the sole and exclusive collective bargaining agency	 forthe  workmen of the company.  Towards the end of  1954,	 twogroups	of  the union were formed and rivalry  grew  betweenthem.  One group was led by Mr. Fateh Narain Singh and otherby  Mr. Bari.  On January 22, 1954, the union'	through	 itsgeneral	 secretary  Mr.	 Fateh Narain Singh  served  on	 thecompany a " slow down notice " with effect from February 24,1954, and on February 6, 1954, Mr. Bari purporting to act asthe  president	of the union asked his followers  to  go  onstrike	as from February 23, 1954.  The demands made by	 Mr.Fateh  Narain  Singh gave rise to  conciliation	 proceedingsunder  the  Act and ended in the settlement which  was	dulyrecorded  on  February	8,  1954.   In	spite  of  the	saidsettlement  some  workmen, including the  sixty	 workmen  inquestion  who supported Mr. Bari, went on an illegal  strikeon February 23, 1954, although as members of the union	theywere  bound by the ,settlement. The majority of the  workmenwere opposed to	    the	 strike and in fact on February	 16,1954, a	  letter  signed by 500 workmen	 who  dis-associatedthemselves  from  the strike, was received by  the  company.The  company was requested to make suitable arrangements  toenable	these  workmen to attend their duties.	 The  strikesucceeded only partially because out of 854 workmen employedin  the	 company's  factory  at	 Digha	nearly	500  workmenattended  the  factory	in  spite  of  the  threats  of	 thestrikers.  The strike was declared illegal by the  appellantunder  s.  23  (c) of the Act.	 Subsequently,	the  companyserved	the strikers with charge-sheets and in the end,	 274workmen,  including  the  sixty workmen	 in  question,	weredismissed from service by the company.	Thereafter the unionentered	 into negotiations with the company, as a result  ofwhich  it was agreed that 110 strikers would be employed  bythe  company  in the same manner in which  76  strikers	 hadalready been employed by it.  It was further1521196agreed	that  30 strikers were to remain dismissed  and	 notconsidered eligible for employment or for any benefits.	  Inregard	to the remaining 30 strikers, the company agreed  toconsider  their	 cases later on	 for  reemployment.   Duringthese  negotiations, the sixty workmen in question  did	 notmake  any demand to the management for reinstatement  eitherindividually  or collectively. nor was their case raised  byany  other Organisation or body of workmen.  In the  result,so far as the union was concerned the dispute regarding	 thewhole body of strikers who had been dismissed by the companycame  to  an  end by virtue of, the  agreement	between	 thecompany and the union.Notwithstanding this agreement, Mr. Sinha, the	conciliationofficer, wrote to the company on September 3, 1954, that  hedesired to hold conciliation proceedings inrespectof,some ofthe  dismissed	workmen.  The dispute raised  by  the  sixtyworkmen	 was  not sponsored by any Organisation or  body  ofworkmen.   In fact the secretary of the union wrote  to	 theCommissioner  of  Labour  on September	22,  1954,  that  hestrongly  objected to the alleged dispute of  sixty  workmenbeing referred to adjudication.	 It was under these  circum-stances	 that the appellant issued the first  two  notifica-tions on October 8, 1954 and January 15, 1955.On  May 30, 1955, the union made an application	 before	 thetribunal  alleging  that the' majority of the  workmen	wereopposed	 to  the  reinstatement	 of  the  sixty	 workmen  inquestion and consequently it had interest in the proceedingsbefore the tribunal.  Two applications were made before	 thetribunal by other workmen to be joined to the proceedings onthe  ground that they were opposed to the  reinstatement  ofthe  workmen whose cases were pending before  the  tribunal.All these applications were rejected by the tribunal.It  would appear that Mr. Fateh Narain Singh then moved	 theDepartment  of	Labour	Government  of	Bihar,	and  it	 wasapparently pursuant to the representation -made by him	thatthe   third  notification  was	issued	by   the   appellantsuperseding  the first two notifications and  referring	 thewhole dispute afresh to the1197industrial tribunal with the union of Mr. Fateh Narain Singhadded  as a party to the proceedings.  That in brief is	 thegenesis of the impugned notification in the present case.Dr  Bannerjee for the appellant has urged before us that  indealing	  with	the  question  about  the  powers   of	 theappropriate  government under s. 10(1) of the Act, it  wouldbe  necessary  to bear in mind the facts which	led  to	 thecancellation of the first two notifications and the issue ofthe  third  impugned  notification.   He  contends  that  inissuing the third notification the appellant has acted	bonafide and solely in the interests of fair-play and justice  ;it  came to the. conclusion that it was necessary  that	 theunion  should be heard before the disputes in question	are.adjudicated  upon  by the Industrial Tribunal  and  that  itwould  be more convenient and in the interest of  industrialpeace  and  harmony  that the  dispute	should	be  referredto  .the tribunal'in a more comprehensive  and	consolidatedform bringing before the tribunal all the parties interestedin  it.	 In our opinion, the bona fides of the appellant  onwhich  reliance	 is placed by Dr. Banerjee are	really	not:relevant  for determining the appellant's 'powers  under  s.10(1) of the Act.  If the appellant has authority to  cancelthe notification issued under s. 10(1), and if the  validityof  the cancelling notification is challenged on the  groundof  mala fides, it may be relevant and material	 to  inquireinto the motives of the appellant.  But if the appellant hasno authority to cancel or revoke a notification issued unders.  10(1),  the	 bona  fides of	 the  appellant	 can  hardlyvalidate the impugned cancellation.  That is why, we  think,the appellant cannot base its arguments on the alleged	bonafides of its conduct.it  is	conceded  by Dr. Bannerjee that	 the  Act  does	 notexpressly confer any power on the appropriate government  tocancel	or supersede a reference made under s. 10(1) of	 theAct.   He,-however,  argues  that the  power  to  cancel  orsupersede  such a reference must be hold to be implied,	 andin  support of his argument he relies on the, provisions  ofs. 21 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (X of 1897).  Section21 provides1198that " where, by any Central Act or Regulation, a. power  toissue notifications, orders, rules or bye-laws is conferred,then  that power includes a power, exercisable in  the	likemanner	and subject to the like sanction and conditions	 (ifany),  to add to, amend, vary or rescind any  notifications,orders,	 rules	or byelaws so issued ". It is  well  settledthat  this section embodies a rule of construction  and	 thequestion  whether or not it applies to the provisions  of  aparticular  statute  would  depend  on	the  subject-matter,context, and the effect, of the relevant provision,% of	 thesaid  statute.	 In  other words it would  be  necessary  toexamine carefully the scheme of the Act, its object and	 allits relevant and material provisions before deciding whetherby the application of the rule of construction enunciated bys.  21,	 the appellant's contention is	justified  that	 thepower  to  cancel the reference made under s. 10(1)  can  besaid  to  vest in the appropriate  government  by  necessaryimplication.  If we come to the conclusion that the  contextand  -effect of the relevant provisions is repugnant to	 theapplication of the said rule of construction, the  appellantwould  not be entitled to invoke the assistance of the	saidsection.   We  must,  therefore,  proceed  to  examine	 therelevant provisions of the Act itself.It  is	clear that the policy of the Act is  to	 secure	 andpreserve  good	relations between the  employers  and  theirworkmen and to maintain industrial peace and harmony.  It iswith  this  object  that s. 3 of the  Act  contemplates	 theestablishment  of the Works Committees whose duty it  is  topromote measures for securing and preserving amity and	goodrelations  between  the employers and the workmen.   If	 theWorks  Committee  is unable to settle the  disputes  &risingbetween the employer and his workmen, conciliation  officersand  the  boards  of conciliation offer	 assistance  to	 theparties to settle their disputes.  Sections 3, 4, 5, 12	 and13  refer to the working of this machinery  contemplated  bythe Act.  It is only where the conciliation machinery  failsto  bring about settlement between the parties that the	 Actcontemplates  compulsory  adjudication	of  the	  industrialdisputes by labour courts and1199tribunals   as	the  last  alternative.	   The	 appropriategovernment  is	authorised to constitute labour	 courts	 andtribunals under and subject to the provisions of a. 7 and s.7A  respectively.   It	is  in	respect	 of  the  compulsoryadjudication that under s. 10, the appropriate government isgiven  wide discretion to decide whether or not the  disputebetween	 the employer and his employees should fie  referredto  the	 board,	 court or' tribunal.   Section	10  (1)	 (d)provides inter alia that where the appropriate government isof  opinion  that  any	industrial  dispute  exists  or	  isapprehended,  it may at any time, by order in writing  referthe  dispute to a tribunal for adjudication.  The  conditionprecedent  for the reference to the industrial	tribunal  isthat  the appropriate government must be satisfied  that  anindustrial  dispute exists or is apprehended.  It is not  inevery  case  where the parties allege the  existence  of  anindustrial  dispute that a reference would be made under  s.10 (1); it is only where the test of subjective satisfactionof   the  appropriate  government  is  satisfied  that	 thereference   can	 be  made.   Thus  it  is  clear  that	 theappropriate  government is given an important voice  in	 thematter	 of   permitting   industrial	disputes   to	seekadjudication  by reference to the industrial tribunal.	 Butonce  an  order	 in  writing  is  made	by  the	 appropriategovernment  referring an industrial dispute to the  tribunalfor  adjudication  under s. 10 (1), proceedings	 before	 thetribunal are deemed to have commenced and they are deemed tohave  concluded	 on the day on which the award made  by	 thetribunal  becomes  enforceable under s. 17A.   This  is	 theeffect	of s. 20(3) of the Act.	 This provision	 shows	thatafter  the dispute is referred to the tribunal,	 during	 thecontinuance of the reference proceedings, it is the tribunalwhich  is  seized  of the dispute  and	which  can  exercisejurisdiction  in respect of it.	 The appropriate  governmentcan  act  in  respect of a  reference  pending	adjudicationbefore	a  tribunal only under s. 140(5) of the	 Act,  whichauthorises  it to add other parties to the  pending  disputesubject	 to the conditions mentioned in the said  provision.It  would  therefore be reasonable to hold that	 except	 forcases1200falling	 under	s. 10(5) the appropriate  government  standsoutside	 the  reference	 proceedings, which  are  under	 thecontrol and jurisdiction of the tribunal itself.  Even afterthe  award  is made it is -obligatory on I  the	 appropriategovernment under S. 17(1) to publish the said award within aperiod of thirty, -days from the date of its receipt by the,appropriate government.	 'Sub-section (2) of s. 17 says thatsubject	 to the	 provisions of s. 17A, the  award  publishedunder (1) of s. 17 shall be final and shall not be called inquestion by any court in any manner whatsoever Section 19(3)provides  that	an award shall, subject to  the	 other	pro-visions	 of s. 19, remain in operation for a period  of	 oneyear from the date on which it becomes emforceable under  s.17A.   It  is  true  that  as. 17A  and	 19  confer  on	 theappropriate  government powers to modify the  provisions  ofthe  award or limit the period of its: operation but  it  isunnecessary  to	 refer to these provisions in  detail.	 Thescheme of the- provisions. in Chapters III and IV of the Actwould thus appear to be . to leave the reference proceedingsexclusively   within  the  jurisdiction	 of  the   tribunals-constituted  under the :Act and to make the awards,of	suchtribunals  binding  between  the  parties,  subject  to	 thespecial powers conferred of the appropriate government under-as. 17A and 19.  The appropriate government undoubtedly hasthe initiative in the matter.  It is only where it makes  anorder  in  writing  refering an industrial  dispute  to	 theadjudication of the tribunal that the reference	 proceedingscan commence but the scheme of the relevant provisions wouldprima  -facie seem to be inconsistent with any power in	 theappropriate government to cancel the reference made under s.10 (1).The  power  claimed by the Happening to cancel	a  referencemade  unders. 10(1) seems also to be inconsistent with	someother provisions of the Act.  The proviso to s. 10 lays downthat  the  appropriated	 government shall  refer  a  disputerelating  to the public utility service when a notice  unders.  22 has been given, unless it considers that	 the  noticehas been frivolously or vexatiously given, or that it  wouldbe  inexpedient	 so  to refer the  dispute.   This  proviso,indicates that in regard1201to  a dispute relating to public utility  concerns  normallythe government is expected to refer it for adjudication.  Insuch  a	 case if' the government makes the reference  it  isdifficult  to  appreciate  that	 it would  be  open  to	 thegovernment  pending  the proceedings of the  said  referencebefore	the Industrial Tribunal to cancel the reference	 andsupersede  its original order in that behalf.	Section	 10,sub-s.	(2)  deals with the case where' the parties  to	 areindustrial  dispute apply to the appropriate  government  inthe  prescribed manner, either jointly or separately, for  areference  of the dispute to the appropriate authority,	 andit  provides  that  in	such  a	 case  if  the	 appropriategovernment is satisfied that the persons applying  representthe  majority  of  each party it shall	make  the  referenceaccordingly. ln such  a case all that the government has  tosatisfy	 itself	 about	is the fact  that  the,	 demand	 forreference  is made by the majority of each party,  and	oncethis  condition	 is  satisfied,	 the  government  is   underobligation to refer the dispute for industrial adjudication.It  is inconceivable that in such a case the government	 canclaim  power  to  cancel a reference made  under  s.  10(2).Indeed	in the course of his arguments, Dr. Banerjee  fairlyconceded  that it would be difficult to sustain a claim	 foran  implied power of cancellation in respect of a  referencemade under s. 10(2).There is another consideration which is relevant in  dealingwith this question.  Section 12 which deals with the  dutiesof the conciliation officer, provides in substance that	 theconciliation  officer  should try his best  to	bring  aboutsettlement between the parties.	 If no settlement is arrivedat,  the  conciliation officer has to make a report  to	 theappropriate government, as provided in sub-s. (4) of s.	 12.This  report must contain a full statement of  the  relevantfacts and circumstances and the reasons on account of  whichin  the opinion of the officer the settlement could  not  bearrived	 at.  Sub-section (5) then lays down that if,  on  aconsideration  of the report, the appropriate government  issatisfied  that	 there is a case for reference to  a  board,labour	court,	tribunal or national tribunal, it  may	makesuch a reference.  Where the appropriate1202government  does not make such a reference it  shall  recordand  communicate  to  the  parties  concerned  its   reasonstherefor.    This  provision  imposes  on  the	 appropriategovernment  an	obligation  to record its  reasons  for	 notmaking	a  reference  after  receiving	a  report  from	 theconciliation officer and to communicate the said reasons  tothe parties concerned.	It would show that when the  effortsof  the	 conciliation officer fail to settle a	dispute,  onreceipt	  of  the  conciliation	 officer's  report  by	 theappropriate government, the government would normally  referthe dispute for adjudication ; but if the government is	 notsatisfied that a reference should be made, it is required tocommunicate  its  reasons for its decision  to	the  partiesconcerned.   If	 the appellant's argument  is  accepted,  itwould  mean  that  even	 after the  order  is  made  by	 theappropriate  government under s. 10(1), the said  governmentcan cancel the said order without giving any reasons.	Thisposition is clearly inconsistent with the policy  underlyingthe  provisions of s. 12(5) of the Act.	 In our opinion,  ifthe  legislature had intended to confer on  the	 appropriategovernment the power to cancel an order made under s. 10(1),the legislature would have made a specific provision in thatbehalf and would have prescribed appropriate limitations onthe exercise of the said power.It  is,	 however, urged that if a dispute  referred  to	 theindustrial  tribunal under s. 10(1) is settled	between	 theparties,  the  only  remedy  for giving	 effect	 to  such  acompromise would be to cancel the reference and to take	 theproceedings  out  of  the  jurisdiction	 of  the  industrialtribunal.   This argument is based on the  ,assumption	thatthe industrial tribunal would have to ignore tile settlementby the parties of their dispute pending before it and  wouldhave  to  make an award on the merits in spite of  the	saidsettlement.   We  are not satisfied that  this	argument  iswell-founded.  It is true that the Act does not contain	 anyprovision  specifically authorising the industrial  tribunalto  record  a  compromise and pass an  award  in  its  termscorresponding  to  the provisions of O. XXIII, r. 3  of	 theCode of Civil Procedure.  But it would be very1203unreasonable  to assume that the industrial  tribunal  wouldinsist	upon  dealing with the dispute on  the	merits	evenafter  it  is informed that the dispute	 has  been  amicablysettled between the parties.  We have already indicated thatamicable settlements of industrial disputes which  generallylead to industrial peace and harmony are the primary  objectof  this  Act. Settlements reached before  the	conciliationofficers or( boards are specifically dealt with by ss. 12(2)and 13(3) and the same are made binding under s. 18.   Therecan,  therefore, be no doubt that if an	 industrial  disputebefore	a tribunal is amicably settled, the  tribunal  wouldimmediately  agree  to	make  an  award	 in  terms  of	 thesettlement between the parties.	 It was stated before us  atthe bar that innumerable awards had been made by  industrialtribunals  in terms of the settlements between the  parties.In   this  connexion  we  may  incidentally  refer  to	 theprovisions  of	s.  7  (2)(b)  of  the	Industrial  Disputes(Appellate  Tribunal)  Act,  1950 (XLVIII  of  1950),  whichexpressly  refer  to an award or decision of  an  industrialtribunal  made with the consent of the parties.	 It is	truethat  this  Act is no longer in force; but when	 it  was  inforce,	in providing for appeals to the	 Appellate  Tribunalset  up under the said Act, the legislature  had  recognisedthe  making of awards by the industrial tribunals  with	 theconsent	 of  the parties.  Therefore, we cannot	 accept	 theargument  that cancellation of reference would be  necessaryin  order to give effect to the amicable settlement  of	 thedispute	 reached by the parties pending	 proceedings  beforethe industrial tribunal.In this connexion it may be relevant to refer to some  otherprovisions  of	the Act, which impose  restrictions  on	 theparties	 (luring the pendency of the reference	proceedings.Under  s.  10(3),  where  an  industrial  dispute  has	beenreferred   to  an  industrial  tribunal,   the	 appropriategovernment  may	 by order prohibit the	continuance  of	 anystrike or lock-out in connexion with such dispute which	 maybe  in existence on the date of the  reference.	  Similarly,under  s. 33, during the pendency of the proceedings  beforean  industrial tribunal, no employer shall (a) in regard  toany  matter  connected	with  the  dispute,  alter,  to	 theprejudice1531204of the workmen concerned in such dispute, the conditions  ofservice	  applicable   to  them	  immediately	before	 thecommencement  of such proceedings or (b) for any  misconductconnected with the dispute, discharge or punish, whether  bydismissal  or  otherwise,  any	workmen	 concerned  in	suchdispute, save with the express permission in writing of	 theauthority  before which the proceeding is pending.   Failureto comply with the provisions of s. 33(1) is made punishableunder  s. 31 of the Act.  These provisions show that  duringthe  pendency  of  the	proceedings  before  the  industrialtribunal the parties to the dispute are expected to maintainstatus	quo and not to take any action which  would  disturbindustrial  peace  or  prejudice a  fair  trial	 before	 theindustrial  tribunal.	If the power to cancel	a  referencemade under s. 10 (1) is held to be implied, the	 proceedingsbefore	the  industrial	 tribunal  can	be  terminated	 andsuperseded  at	any stage and  obligations  and	 liabilitiesincurred   by  the  parties  during  the  pendency  of	 theproceedings would be materially affected.  It is because allthese provisions are intended to operate as a self-containedCode  governing	 the compulsory adjudication  of  industrialdisputes  under	 the  Act,  that  s.  15  enjoins  upon	 theindustrial tribunals to hold their proceedings expeditiouslyand  to submit their awards as soon as it is practicable  onthe  conclusion	 of  the  proceedings  to  the	 appropriategovernment.  Thus time is usually of essential importance inindustrial   adjudications  and	 so  the  Act	imposes	  anobligation  on the industrial tribunals to deal	 with  theirproceedings   as   expeditiously  as   possible.    If	 theappropriate  government	 has  by implication  the  power  tocancel	its  order passed under s.  10(1),  the	 proceedingsbefore	the  industrial tribunal would	be  rendered  whollyineffective by the exercise of such power.Apart	from  these  provisions	 of  the  Act,	on   generalprinciples it seems rather difficult to accept the  argumentthat the appropriate government should have an implied powerto  cancel  its own order made under s. 10(1).	 If  on	 therepresentation	made  by  the employer or  his	workmen	 theappropriate  government	 considers  the	 matter	 fully	 andreaches the conclusion that an1205industrial  dispute exists or is apprehended and then  makesthe reference under s. 10(1), there appears to be no  reasonor  principle  to  support the contention  that	 it  has  animplied	 power	to cancel its order and put an	end  to	 thereference  proceedings initiated by itself In  dealing	withthis question it is important to bear in mind that power  tocancel	its order made under s. 10(1), which  the  appellantclaims,	 is an absolute power; it is not as if the power  tocancel	implies the obligation to make another reference  inrespect	 of  the dispute in question ; it is not as  if	 theexercise  of  the  power is subject to	the  condition	thatreasons for cancellation of the order should be set out.  Ifthe  power  claimed  by the appellant  is  conceded  to	 theappropriate  government it would be open to the	 appropriategovernment to terminate the proceedings before the  tribunalat any stage and not to refer the industrial dispute to	 anyother  industrial tribunal at all.  The discretion given  tothe  appropriate government under s. 10(1) in the matter  ofreferring  industrial  disputes to industrial  tribunals  isvery wide; but it seems the power to cancel which is claimedis  wider  still; and it is claimed by	implication  on	 thestrength  of s. 21 of the General Clauses Act.	We  have  nohesitation   in	 holding  that	the  rule  of	constructionenunciated by s. 21 of the General Clauses Act in so far  asit  refers  to	the power of rescinding	 or  cancelling	 theoriginal   order  cannot  be  invoked  in  respect  of	 theprovisions of s. 10(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act.It would now be necessary to refer to the decisions to whichour  attention was invited in the course of arguments.	 Forthe  appellant	Dr.  Bannerjee has strongly  relied  on	 thedecision  of  this  court in Minerva  Mills  Ltd.  v.  TheirWorkmen (1).  He contends that Mahajan J. who delivered	 thejudgment  of  the  court,  has	expressly  observed  in	 hisjudgment  that from the relevant provisions of the  Act	 "Itcould  not  be held that it was implicit in s.	7  that	 thegovernment  could  not	withdraw a  dispute  referred  to  atribunal or make the appointment of a tribunal for a limitedperiod of time." The argument is that this observation showsthat  the government can withdraw a pending  reference	fromone tribunal and refer it to another tribunal, and,(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 465.1206according  to the appellant, that is exactly what  has	beendone  by  it in the present case.  In the  case	 of  MinervaMills  Ltd.  (1), however, the question	 about	the  impliedpower of the appropriate government to cancel its order madeunder  s.  10 did not arise for	 consideration.	  The  pointwhich  was raised by the appellant was that  the  governmenthad no power to appoint a tribunal for a limited duration  ;and  the  argument  was	 that  if  industrial  disputes	 arereferred  to  a	 tribunal, all the  said  disputes  must  bedetermined  by	the  said  tribunal and	 not  by  any  othertribunal,  notwithstanding  that  the  appointment  of	 theoriginal  tribunal  was for a limited duration.	  The  firsttribunal  in  the said case had been appointed on  June	 15,1952, and some industrial disputes had been referred to	 it.The tribunal was appointed for one year.  During its  tenurethe  tribunal disposed of some of the disputes	referred  toit,  but  four disputes still remained undisposed  of.	 Fordisposing  of  these  references,  a  second  tribunal	 wasappointed   on	 June  27,  1952.   The	 validity   of	 theconstitution  of  the second tribunal was  impugned  by	 theappellant  and	it was urged that it is the  first  tribunalalone  which can and must try the remaining disputes.	Thisargument was rejected by this court, and it was held that itwas  perfectly	competent to the appropriate  government  toappoint	 a  tribunal for a limited duration.   It  would  benoticed	 that  in  this	 case  there  was  no  question	  ofcancelling  an	order made under s. 10(1).  The	 said  orderremained  in force, and the only step which  the  governmenttook  was to make an order constituting a fresh tribunal  todispose	 of  the references which had not  been	 adjudicatedupon by the first tribunal.  It was on these facts that thiscourt took the view that it was competent to the  governmentto refer the said remaining disputes for adjudication to thesecond tribunal.  Strictly speaking there was no occasion towithdraw  any  dispute from the first  tribunal;  the  firsttribunal  had ceased to exist; and so there was no  tribunalwhich  could  deal  with  the  remaining  disputes   alreadyreferred  under	 s.  10(1).   That  is	why  the  governmentpurported to appoint a second tribunal to deal with the saiddispute.  In our opinion, the decision in the Minerva  MillsLtd. (1) cannot be(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 465.1207cited  in support of the proposition that the appellant	 haspower  to cancel the order of reference made by it under  s.10(1).The  decision of this court in Strawboard Manufacturing	 Co.Ltd.  v.  Gutta Mill Workers' Union (1), is  then  cited  insupport	 of the proposition that the appellant	has  impliedpower  to  cancel its order made, under s. 10(1).   In	thiscase,  the  government	of the State of	 Uttar	Pradesh	 hadreferred an industrial dispute to the Labour Commissioner onFebruary 18, 1950, and had directed the Commissioner to makehis  award  not	 later	than  April  5,	 1950.	 While	 theproceedings  were  pending  before  the	 Commissioner,	 twoadditional  issues  were referred to him.   Ultimately,	 theaward  was  made  on  April 13, and  it	 was  sought  to  bevalidated by the issue of a notification by the Governor  ofUttar Pradesh on April 26, by which the time for making	 theaward  was  retrospectively extended up to April  30,  1950.This  court  held  that	 the  notification   retrospectivelyextending  the period to make the award was invalid.   Sincethe award had been made beyond the period prescribed by	 theoriginal notification, it was void.  It is, however,  arguedthat  in dealing with the (question of the validity  of	 theaward  it was observed by Das J. (as he then was), " In	 thecircumstances,	if the State Government took the  view	thatthe  addition  of  those two issues would  render  the	timespecified  in the original order inadequate for the  purposeit  should  have  cancelled the	 previous  notification	 andissued a fresh notification referring all the issues to	 theadjudicator  and  specifying a fresh period of	time  withinwhich  he was to make his award.  The State  Government	 didnot adopt that course." As we read the judgment, we are	 notinclined  to  accept  the appellant's  assumption  that	 thepassage	 just  cited  expresses the view  accepted  by	thiscourt.	 Read  in its context the said	passage	 appears  tostate  the argument urged by Dr. Tek Chand on behalf of	 theappellant.  The appellant appears to have urged in substancethat  if the State Government thought that the	addition  ofnew  issues  referred  to  the	Commissioner  by  subsequentnotification made it difficult for him to submit his award(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 439.1208within the specified time, the local government should	havecancelled the original reference, made a fresh comprehensivereference and given him requisite time for making his award.Since that was not done, the position could not be rectifiedby  the issue of the impugned  notification  retrospectivelyextending  the	time originally fixed.	It is  in  connexionwith  this argument that the statement on which reliance  isplaced	was apparently made by the learned counsel  for	 theappellant.  If that be the true position, no argument can bebased  on  these  observations.	 It  is	 conceded  that	 thequestion  about the power of the appropriate  government  tocancel	an  order of reference made under s. 10(1)  did	 notarise for discussion or decision in this case.The  third  decision  to which reference has  been  made  insupport	 of the appellant's case is the decision  of  BishanNarain	J.  in The Textile Workers' Union, Amritsar  v.	 TheState of Punjab and others (1).	 Bishan Narain J. appears tohave  taken  the view that the power to cancel an  order  ofreference made under s. 10(1) can be implied by invoking  s.21  of the General Clauses Act, because he thought  that  bythe exercise of such a power, the appropriate government maybe able to achieve the object of preserving industrial peaceand harmony.  The judgment shows that the learned judge	 wasconscious  of the fact that " this conclusion may  have	 theeffect of weakening a trade union's power of negotiation andmay encourage the individual firms to deal directly with its(their) own workmen but it is a matter of policy with  whichI have nothing to do in these proceedings." In dealing	withthe  present  question, we would not be concerned  with	 anyquestions  of policy.  Nevertheless, it may be pertinent  tostate  that on the conclusion which we have reached  in	 thepresent	 case there would be no scope for  entertaining	 theapprehensions  mentioned by the learned judge.	As  we	havealready indicated, the scheme of the Act plainly appears  tobe to leave the conduct and final decision of the industrialdispute	 to  the  industrial  tribunal	once  an  order	  ofreference  is  made  under  s.	10(1)  by  the	 appropriategovernment.  We must accordingly hold that Bishan Narain  J.was(1)  A.I.R. 1957 Pun. 255.1209in error in taking the view that the appropriate  governmenthas power to cancel its own order made under s. 10(1) of theAct.The  decision  of the Kerala High Court	 in  Iyyappen  Mills(Private)  Ltd., Trichur v. State of Travancore-Cochin	(1),is  not of much assistance because in this case the  learnedjudges appear to have taken the view that the first tribunalbefore	which the industrial dispute was pending had  ceasedto exist at the material time when the dispute was  referredby  the	 local	government for adjudication  to	 the  secondtribunal.   If that be the true position, the conclusion  ofthe  learned  judges would be supported by the	decision  ofthis court in Minerva Mills Ltd. (2).Then,  in  regard to the observations made by  Sinha  J.  inHarendranath  Bose v. Second Industrial Tribunal (3), it  isclear  that  the learned judge was in error  in	 seeking  tosupport his view that the appropriate government can  cancelits  order made under s. 10(1) by the observations found  inthe  judgment of this court in Strawboard Manufacturing	 Co.Ltd. (4).  We have already stated that the said observationsare  really a part of the arguments urged by  the  appellantbefore	 this  court  in  that	case  and  are	not   obiterobservations made by the learned judge.The  last  case	 to  which reference must  be  made  is	 thedecision  of  Rajamannar C. J. and Venkatarama Aiyar  J.  inSouth  India  Estate Labour Relations  Organisation  v.	 TheState of Madras (5).  In this case the Madras Government hadpurported  to amend the reference made by it under s. 10  ofthe  Act and the validity of this amendment  was  challengedbefore	the  court.   This objection was  repelled  oil	 theground	that it would be open to the government to  make  anindependent  reference concerning any matter not covered  bythe  previous  reference.   That it, took  the	form  of  anamendment  to the existing reference and not  an  additionalreference  is a mere technicality which does not  merit	 anyinterference in the writ proceedings.  The objection was oneof  form  and was without substance.  It would	thus  appearthat the question before(1)  [1958]  1 L.L.J. 50. (2) [1954] S.C.R. 465. (3)  [1958]11 L.L.J. 198.(4) [1953] S.C.R. 439.(5) A.I.R. 1955 Mad. 45.1210the  court was whether the appropriate government can  amendthe reference originally made under s. 10 so far as the	 newmatters not covered by the original reference are concerned,and  the  court held that what	the  appropriate  governmentcould  have achieved by making an independent reference,  itsought	to  do by amending the	original  reference  itself.This decision would not assist the appellant because in	 thepresent case we are not considering the power of the govern-ment  to amend, or add to, a reference made under s.  10(1).Our  present decision is confined to the narrow question  asto  whether  an order of reference made by  the	 appropriategovernment  under s. 10(1) can be subsequently cancelled  orsuperseded by it.We must, therefore, confirm the finding made by the  learnedjudges	of  the High Court at Patna, that  the	notificationissued	 by   the  appellant  cancelling   the	 first	 twonotifications is invalid and ultra vires.That  takes us to the question as to the form in  which	 thefinal  order should be passed in the present  appeals.	 TheHigh  Court  has  purported to issue a	writ  of  certiorariagainst	  the	State  Government  quashing   the   impugnednotification.	It has, however, been held by this court  inThe  State of Madras v. C. P. Sarathy (1) that in  making  areference  under  s. 10(1) tile	 appropriate  government  isdoing an administrative Act and the fact that it has to forman  opinion  as to the factual existence  of  an  industrialdispute	 as  a	preliminary step to  the  discharge  of	 itsfunction  does	not make it any the less  administrative  incharacter.   That  being  so,  we think	 it  would  be	moreappropriate  to	 issue	a  writ	 of  mandamus  against	 theappellant in respect of the impugned notification.  We wouldalso  like  to	add  that since	 the  first  two  industrialdisputes  referred  by	the appellant under  the  first	 twonotifications have remained pending before the tribunal	 fora fairly long time, it is desirable that the tribunal shouldtake up these references on its file and dispose of them  asexpeditiously as possible.In  the result, the appeals fail and must be dismissed	withcosts.Appeals dismissed.(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 334.1211