PETITIONER:GORDHANDAS PURSHOTTAMDAS SONAWALA AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE EASTERN COTTON COMPANYDATE OF JUDGMENT:31/03/1958BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.KAPUR, J.L.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1958 AIR  713		  1959 SCR  346ACT:       Cotton  Contracts-Cotton Association-Statute  Providing	for       cotton contracts to be in accordance with the by-laws of the       Association   -By-laws	prescribing   Forms   of   Contract       Substantial compliance with Form	 Validity of the contracts-       Bombay  Cotton  Contracts Act,1932 (Bom.	 IV  Of	 1932),	 s.       8(1).HEADNOTE:Sub-section (1) of s. 8 of the Bombay Cotton Contracts	Act,1932, provides: " Save as hereinafter provided in this	Act,any  contract .... which is entered into after the  date  onwhich  this  Act comes into operation and which	 is  not  inaccordance  with  the  by-laws	of  any	 recognized   cottonassociation shall be void ".In  respect  of	 the transactions  in  cotton  entered	intobetween	  the  parties,	 the  appellants  had  to  pay	 therespondents  a sum of money for failure to give delivery  ofthe cotton bales under the347contracts, but the payment was made without prejudice to therights	and contentions of the parties.	  Subsequently,	 theappellants  sued the respondents for recovery of the  amounton the footing that the contracts were void under s. 8(1) ofthe  Bombay  Cotton  Contracts Act, 1932, as  being  not  inaccordance  with  the  by-laws	of  the	 East  India  CottonAssociation  Ltd., of which both the -parties were  members,in  as much as the contract notes did not company  with	 theterms  contained in the official contract form	provided  bythe  by-laws  of Association, by reason of the	omission  tofill  in the blanks relating to measurements and  differenceabove  or  below  the  settlement  rate.   The	 respondentscontended  that	 the relevant provisions  contained  in	 theofficial  contract form bad either become obsolete  or	weresuspended  at all material times.  The evidence showed	thataccording  to the practice of the trade the parties  to	 thecontract were not tied down to a literal compliance with theterms  contained  in  the official contract  form  but	wererequired  to  act  according  to the  position	as  it	thenobtained  and that it was sufficient if	 they  substantiallycomplied with the requirements of the contract form :Held,  that  in the circumstances of the case  the  officialcontract  form	had  to	 be  filled in	so  far	 as  it	 waspracticable  and that the omission to fill in the blanks  inthe  contract  notes  did not spell any	 departure  from  anessential  or  a characteristic part of the  contract  form;consequently,  the legal effect of the contracts was not  inany manner changed so as to render the contracts void as notbeing  in  accordance with the by-laws of  the	Association,within	the meaning of s. 8 of the Bombay  Cotton  ContractsAct, 1932.Radhakisson Gopikisson v. Balmukund  Ramchandra,   (1932) L.R. 60 I. A. 63, relied on.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 398 of 1956.Appeal from the judgment and order dated March 19, 1956,  ofthe Bombay High Court in Appeal No. 45 of 1955, arising	 outof the judgment and order dated March 23, 1956, of the	saidHigh Court in its Ordinary Original Civil.  Jurisdiction  inSuit No. 468 of 1951.M.   C.	  Setalvad,  Attorney-General  for  India,   N.	  P.Nathwani, J. B. Dadachanji, S. N. Andley and Rameshwar Nath,for the appellants.Purshottam Tricumdas, K. K. Desai and I. N. Shroff, for	 therespondents.1958.  March 31.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered by348BHAGWATI  J.-This  appeal with a certificate of	 fitness  isdirected against the judgment and decree passed by the	HighCourt,of  Judicature at Bombay in appeal from  its  ordinaryOriginal Civil Jurisdiction confirming, though on  differentgrounds, the judgment and decree passed by a single Judge ofthat  High Court in Suit No. 468 of 1951 instituted  by	 theappellants (Original Plaintiffs) to recover from the respon-dents  (Original Defendants) a sum of Rs. 1,80,099-8-0	withinterest and costs.Since the year 1932 the first appellant has been a member ofthe   East  India  Cotton  Association	Ltd.,	(hereinafterreferred to as " the Association " ) as the sole 'proprietorof the firm of Messrs.	Narrondass Manordass There in  afterreferred  to  as "the member firm").   The  first  appellantalong with other partners carried on business in partnershipin  Bombay  inter alia as Cotton  Merchants  and  CommissionAgents	in  the	 name  and  style  of  Messrs.	  NarrondassManordass,  the 2nd appellant (hereinafter referred to as  "the partnership firm ").  The respondents are a	 partnershipfirm and also a member of the Association.Between	 September  23,	 1947, and December  10,  1947,	 themember	firm sold to the respondents 2,300 bales  of  BroachVijay  Fine  3/4"  Navsari and/or Bardoli  7/8"	 Cotton	 forMarch/April 1948 Delivery.  Out of these 2,300 bales,  1,100bales  were  disposed  of by  means of " Havalas  "  and  inrespect	 of  the  remaining 1,200 bales, there	were  cross-contracts.   In	 the result when the time for "	 Delivery  "arrived, sales in respect of 700 bales remained	 outstandingand the member firm was liable to give delivery of 700 balesto  the respondents.  As however, the member firm failed  togive  delivery	of the said 700 bales  to  the	respondents,under	the  relevant  by-laws	of  the	  Association,	 therespondents " Invoiced Back " these 700 bales to the  memberfirm  on  May 3, 1948, and as a result of this	"  InvoicingBack  " a sum of Rs. 1,07,530-8-0 became due and payable  bythe  member firm to the respondents and with regard  to	 thetransactions  of  all  the 2,300  bales	 taken	together  anaggregate sum of Rs. 1,79,749-8-0 became due and payable  bythe		  349member	firm to the respondents.  In respect of this sum  ofRs.  1,79,749-8-0, the respondents sent to the	member	firmeight separate " Debit Notes " in respect of varying amountsand finally a consolidated debit note for Rs. 1,79,749-8-0.It  appears  that  the contract notes in  respect  of  thesetransactions  had been signed by one Ramanlal  Nagindas	 whohad  been  employed  as	 a  salesman  in  the  Ready  CottonDepartment   of	 the  partnership  firm.    The	  appellantscontended  that the said Ramanlal Nagindas had no  authorityto  enter  into the said transactions or  to  sign  contractnotes  in  respect thereof on behalf of the  appellants	 andalso that the said contracts were not in accordance with theby-laws	 of the Association and they therefore denied  theirliability   in	respect	 of  the  said	transactions.	 Thepartnership firm, however, as the beneficiary under the saidcontracts decided to pay the amounts claimed by the  respon-dents  without	prejudice to the rights and  contentions  ofboth  the  parties.   On May 7, 1948, the said	sum  of	 Rs.1,79,748-8-0  was  paid	 by the	 partnership  firm  and	 wasreceived by the respondents in terms of the letter addressedby the respondents on the said date:-"The  payment  is  made by you and accepted  by	 us  withoutprejudice to the rights and contentions of both the  partiesin respect thereof.  "A further sum of Rs. 350 being the amount of penalty for thealleged	 failure  to tender the aforesaid 700 bales  of	 thesaid  contracts of Broach/Vijay March/April  1948  Delivery,was also paid by the partnership firm to the respondents  onJune   6,  1948,  without  prejudice  to   their   aforesaidcontentions.The   said  Ramanlal  Nagindas	had  entered  into   similartransactions  with several other merchants and some of	themclaimed	 arbitration under by-law 38-A of  the	Association.Petitions  were	 thereupon filed by the member firm  in	 theHigh Court at Bombay being Petitions Nos.  A/51, A/52,	A/55and  A/56 of 1949 under s. 33 of the Indian Arbitration	 Actinter alia for a declaration that there existed no valid andenforceable arbitration agreement between the parties.	 Mr.Justice Shah delivered judgment in the said petitions350on  August  20,	 1950,	holding inter  alia  that  the	saidcontracts were void as being not in accordance with the	 by-laws  of the Association and allowed those  petitions.	 Therespondents to the petitions thereupon filed petitions underArt. 136 of the Constitution for special leave to appeal  tothis  Court against the said judgment of Mr.  Justice  Shah.These petitions were, however, dismissed by this Court on orabout April 6, 1951.The  appellants thereafter by their attorney's letter  datedMay 2, 1951, called upon the respondents to return the	saidsum  of I-Is. 1,80,099-8-0 (being the aggregate of the	saidtwo  sums  of Rs. 1,79,749-8-0 and Rs. 350.)  with  interestthereon	 at  the  rate	of  6  per  cent.  per	annum.	 Therespondents  failed and neglected to pay to  the  appellantsthe said sum or any part thereof with the result that on May7,   1951,  the	 appellants  filed  the	 suit  against	 therespondents  for  repayment  to them of the  said  sum	withinterest and costs.In the plaint as filed the appellants averred that the	saidcontracts  were void under the Bombay Cotton Contracts	Act,1932,  as  being not in accordance with the by-laws  of	 theAssociation  inter alia in the following respects:  (1)	 Thecontract notes produced by the respondents omitted to  statethe difference of Rs......... above or below the  settlementrate  of  hedge	 contracts for	the  purpose  of  periodicalsettlements  as required by by-laws 139 and 141; and (2)  noprovision  was made in any of the aforesaid  contract  noteswith  regard to the measurement of bales as required by	 theofficial form for delivery contracts prescribed in bylaw 80.The  respondents in their written statement  contended	thatthere was no by-law which required any person to agree	uponany  difference above or below the settlement rate of  hedgecontracts  for the purpose of periodical settlements and  tostate  the same.  They further contended that  the  relativeprovisions  contained  in  the official	 contract  form	 hadbecome obsolete as at all material times there were no hedgecontracts bearing different numbers and in practice the saidcontracts were not put through periodical settlements.351They also contended that at all material times there was  noby law which required any person to agree upon any  specificmeasurements in respect of the bales agreed to be  purchasedinasmuch  as the operation of by-law 101 in  regard  theretohad been suspended by the Board since November 30, 1942.After  the suit reached hearing the appellants	amended	 theplaint	by  averring  that by reason of	 the  said  paymentshaving	been  made by them and accepted by  the	 respondentswithout prejudice to the rights and contentions of both	 theparties there was an implied agreement between them that  inthe event of the appellant's establishing that they were notbound  to pay the said sums to the respondents and that	 therespondents  were  not entitled to the payment	thereof	 therespondents   would  repay  or	return	the  same   to	 theappellants.   This plea was traversed by the respondents  inthe supplemental written statement which they filed.The learned trial Judge followed the judgment of Mr. JusticeShah  and  held that the omission of  the  clause  regardingmeasurement  in	 the  contract	notes  did  not	 alter	 thecharacter  or legal effect of the contracts.   He  similarlyheld that the omission of any reference in the contracts  tothe amount of difference above or below the settlement	rateof  hedge contracts in the last term of the  contract  notesrendered the contracts void.  He however was of the  opinionthat  there was no implied agreement between the parties  ofthe  nature alleged by the appellants and that	the  paymentmade  by  appellants to the respondents	 was  voluntary	 andtherefore dismissed the appellants' suit with costs.The  appellants preferred ail, appeal against this  decisionand  the appellate Court dismissed the appeal and  confirmedthe  decree  passed by the learned trial  Judge,  though  ondifferent  grounds.   The appellate Court  agreed  with	 thelearned trial Judge that the omission of the term  regardingmeasurement  in	 the  contract	notes  did  not	 affect	 thecharacter  or legal affect of the contracts.  In  regard  tothe  omission to fill-up the difference above or  below	 thesettlement rate352fixed  for  the hedge contracts in the last  clause  of	 thecontract  notes,  however, the appellate Court	was  of	 theopinion that there was no obligation on the parties to agreeto  add	 or  deduct  the  difference  above  or	 below	 thesettlement  rate  as contended by the  appellants.   If	 theparties	 did agree then the contract form provided that	 theagreement should be set out therein.  If, however, they	 didnot agree then the first part of cl. (2) of by law 141 wouldcome  into play and the settlement of the delivery  contractwould go through on the basis of the settlement rate of	 thehedge contract.	 The omission to fill-up the difference	 wasthus of no consequence and did not invalidate the contracts.The  appellate Court also differed from the trial  Judge  onthe  question of the implied agreement and held that if	 theappellants  succeeded in establishing that  the	 respondentswere  not entitled to receive the payments  the	 respondentswere bound to repay the sums paid by the appellants to them.In  view,  however,  of	 the  conclusion  reached  that	 thecontracts  were not void, the appellate Court dismissed	 theappeal.The  -provisions  of the Bombay Cotton Contracts  Act,	1932(Bom.  IV of 1932) and the by-laws of the Association  whichfall to be considered by us may now be referred to:-Section 8(1) (Bombay Cotton Contracts Act, 1932):    " Save as hereinafter provided in this Act, any contract(whether  either party thereto is a member of  a  recognizedcotton	association or not) which is entered into after	 thedate on which this Act comes into operation and which is notin  accordance	with the by-laws of  any  recognized  cottonassociation shall be void."By-law 80 of the Association:-"  Forward  contracts between members  how  made:  -DeliveryContracts between members shall be made on the official formgiven in the Appendix.	Hedge contracts between members	 maybe verbal or in writing and when in writing shall be in	 oneor other of the forms given in the Appendix.  Whether verbalor written all contracts shall be subject to the by-laws,	       353provided that in the case of Delivery Contracts By-laws	 149to 163 inclusive shall not apply.The specimen of the official contracts form in triplicate asused in 1947-48 (Vide Exhibit " D ") contained the followingterms amongst others:-No. Contract NoteFrom	       BrokersTo Messrs.......................We  have this day bought by your order and for your  accountsubject to the By-laws of the East India Cotton	 AssociationLtd.  From  Messrs......(...) bales of Cotton  at  Rs..	 percandy,	 delivered   in	 Bombay	 in  full   pressed   bales.Measurement... tons/per 100 bales.(For delivery contracts only). for the purpose of periodicalsettlement  of	this contract we agree to  a  difference  ofRs... above/below the settlement rate of hedge contract No.Remarks... Bombay...194No. Contract NoteFrom	      BrokersTo Messrs............................We  have  this day sold by your order and for  your  accountsubject to the By laws of the East India Cotton	 AssociationLtd.  To  Messrs...(..) bales of... Cotton...  at  Rs..	 percandy,	 delivered   in	 Bombay	 in  full   pressed   bales.Measurement... tons/per 100 bales.(For   delivery	 contracts  only).   For  the	purpose	  ofperiodical settlement of this contract we agree to a differ-ence of Rs ... above/below the settlement rate of hedge con-tract No.Remarks ... Bombay ... 194The  contract  notes which are rendered between	 the  memberfirm  and the respondents, however, contained no term as  tomeasurement and	 so far as the last clause was concerned theblanks	in regard to the difference of Rs...above  or  belowthe settlement rate of hedge contract No.... were not filledin.   The relevant by-laws in connection with these  two  termscontained in the official contract form were by law 101, andby laws 139 and 141:--		       By-law: 101.Claims for excess measurement.In respect of all Forward Contracts, measurement45354shall approximate 13-1/2 tons per 50 bales provided that  inrespect	 of Forward Contracts, other than  Hedge  Contracts,the  parties may agree upon any other measurement.   In	 allForward Contracts, for any port the rate or rates of freightfor  any  excess measurement over 13-1/2 tons per  50  balesshall  be  fixed by the Board from time to time	 and  unlessotherwise fixed the rate for such excess for all ports shallbe  Rs.	 15  per  ton in respect of each  lot  of  50  balesmeasuring  more	 than 13-1/2 tons but not more	than  14-1/2tons  and in respect of each lot of 50 bales measuring	morethan  14-1/2 tons Rs. 35 per ton for any excess over  13-1/2tons.No allowance for excess measurement shall be payable by	 theseller:-(a)  unless  the  buyer has given to the  seller  reasonablenotice fixing an appointment for measurement, or(b)  unless the buyer submits a claim to the seller within 6weeks after the complete lot has been weighed over.The Board shall have power from time to time and at any timeto   suspend  the  operation  of  this	Bylaw	as   regardsmeasurements.			By-law: 139."Settlement  Days.  All Delivery Contracts other than  thoseexcepted  under	 By-laws 136 and Hedge	Contracts  shall  besubject to periodical settlements through the Clearing Houseand  in	 every	case the parties to  the  contract  must  bemembers of the Association.  Settlements of differences	 dueon  open  contracts and of other liabilities to	 be  settledthrough the Clearing House shall be made once weekly on dayswhich shall be fixed by the Board and notified in a calendarto be published annually.The day on which Balance Sheets are required to be submittedto the Clearing House shall be known as Settlement Day."			By-law: 141.Settlement rates.-(1) For the purpose of these	settlements,settlement  prices for all positions of the  Hedge  Contractshall  be fixed by the Board on or about the  third  workingday immediately preceding Settlement355Day.  The prices so fixed shall be I P. M. prices on the dayof fixation.(2)In  the case of Delivery Contracts, the settlement  priceof the Hedge Contract shall be the basis for the  periodicalsettlement.  Such allowances as shall be agreed upon by	 theparties	 in their contract to cover any difference,  betweenthe cotton contracted -for and the cotton which is the basisof the Hedge Contract shall be added to or deducted from thesaid  settlement  price.   In  the  case  of  contracts	 fordescriptions  which  are not tenderable	 against  the  HedgeContract the parties may either agree in their contract uponan  allowance  above  or below the Hedge  Contract  for	 thepurpose	 of their periodical settlement or may apply to	 theBoard to fix settlement rates. ...........................................................The  only question for our determination in this  appeal  iswhether	 the  contracts	 between the  parties  were  not  inaccordance with the by-laws of the Association and thereforevoid.  There is no doubt that all the contracts were subjectto  the	 by-laws  of the Association.	The  question  stillremains	 whether  they were in accordance with	the  by-lawsbecause	 if they were not in accordance with  those  by-lawsthey would be void.  The expression " not in accordance with"  has	been  the  subject  of	judicial  interpretation  inRadhakisson  Gopikisson v. Balmukund Ramchandra (1).   TheirLordships  of  the Privy Council there held  that  the	formprescribed  was	 not  a stereotyped  one  and  that  literalcompliance  with  it  was not  essential.   The	 only  thingrequired  was that the contract notes must contain  all	 theterms and conditions set out in the form in order to  complywith   it.   Their  Lordships  were  of	 the  opinion	thatsubstantial compliance with the form would be enough and  ifsuch  sufficient compliance with the by-laws was found in  aparticular  case  that would save the contracts	 from  beingdeclared void as not being in accordance with the by-laws.It was, however, urged on behalf of the appellants that	 by-law 80 prescribes the form in which the contracts were to beentered into and all the terms and(1)  (1932) L.R. 60 I.A. 63.356conditions incorporated in the official contract form had tobe strictly complied with, that the omission of the term  asto measurement as also the omission to fill in the blanks inregard	to  difference	of  Rs......  above  or	 below	 thesettlement  rate  of hedge contract  No.  ..................were  such  departures	from the form  prescribed  as  wouldrender the contracts void because it could not be then	saidthat  there  was sufficient compliance	with  the  statutoryform.  Reliance was placed in support of this contention  onBurchell  v. Thompson (1), Ex-parte Stanford, In  re  Barber(2),  Thomas  v. Kelly (3) and Parsons v. Brand	 &  Cols  v.Dickson	 (4).  The principle emerging from  these  decisionswas  enunciated to be that if the document executed  by	 andbetween	 the parties departed from a characteristic part  ofthe form prescribed or made a difference in the legal effectof  the instrument, it would not be in accordance  with	 theform and would therefore be void.  It would all depend	uponthe   materiality   of	the  -particular   term	  which	  isincorporated  in the form.  If the non-compliance  with	 therequirements  of the form were such as to make the  documentsomething  else	 by reason of a characteristic part  of	 theform  not  being followed or the document  would  lose	somelegal effect which it would have had if the proper words hadbeen inserted therein, it cannot be said that there is	sub-stantial compliance with the statutory form.Considering  the  term as to measurement in this  light,  itappears	 that the same had its basis in the requirements  ofthe trade in regard to the pressing of the bales.  The baleswhich  were  the subject-matter of  these  forward  deliverycontracts were either meant for transport within the countryor  export outside the country.	 The bales were to be  fullypressed	 so  as	 to  occupy  the  minimum  space  either  intransport  by  rail or by steamer and  initially  they	werebound  with hoops.  The baling hoops were however  difficultto  obtain  from Japan and therefore the bales	came  to  bebound  with ropes made of cotton, jute coir and	 hemp.	 Thebales thus bound otherwise than with hoops(1)  [1920] 2 K. B. 80.(3)  (1888) 13 App.  Cas. 506.(2)  (1886) 17 Q.B.D. 259.(4)  (1890) 25 Q.B.D. 110,357occupied more space and difficulties were encountered by themerchants  because  of	their being obliged  to	 pay  -extrainsurance and freight charges in respect of such bales.	 Notonly did the railways charge more for the transport of	suchbales, the shipping companies also did so and the  insurancecompanies  charged  higher rates for insurance	because	 thebales were not pressed in a manner which would minimise	 therisks  of  insurance.	All these factors  brought  about  asituation  creating difficulties between the purchasers	 andthe  sellers  of  cotton and these difficulties	 had  to  beresolved by the Association. by law 101 had proceeded on thebasis	of  cotton  bales  being  bound	 with	hoops,	 theapproximate measurement in tons as agreed and understood  inthe  trade  being, 13-1/2 tons per 50 bales.  That  was	 thestandard measurement.  It was open however to the parties toagree upon any other measurement.  If any measurement  otherthan  the standard measurement was agreed to, an  adjustmenthad  to be made by reason of such difference in	 measurementand   by-law  101  provided  that  certain  amount   thereinspecified had got to be paid by the seller to the  purchaseras and by way of allowance for such excess measurement.Towards October, 1942, the situation in regard to the balinghoops  deteriorated  so much that it was  thought  desirablethat  bales  bound  with ropes should  be  permitted  to  betendered  under the by-laws of the Association and that	 theoperation of by-law 101 as regards measurements	 should	  besuspended.   There were heavy fluctuations in the prices  ofthe  materials	permitted to be used, and it  was  thereforethought	 advisable  to fix certain allowances from  time  totime or before the beginning of the delivery periods  takinginto consideration the extra insurance and freight  charges,if any, in respect of such bales.  A sub-committee appointedby  the Association made a report in this behalf on  October29, 1942, and on November 20 1942, the Board of Directors ofthe   Association   passed  a	resolution   approving	 therecommendations	 of the subcommittee with this	modificationthat  the allowance to be prescribed in the price  of  balesbound with ropes358as  against the price of bales bound with hoops as  providedin  by-laws 96 and 119, be fixed before the commencement  ofthe season and not be altered from time to time.  The  Boardof   Directors	issued	a  notice  on  November	 30,   1942,suspending  the	 operation  of	bylaw  101  as	regards	 themeasurement until further notice.The  position  as  it obtained at the  time  when  the	suitcontracts  were entered into was that by-law 101 as  regardsmeasurement had been suspended and there was no necessity sofar as the by-laws went to make any mention in the contractsin regard to the same.	If the claim for excess	 measurementhad  not to be entertained, it was not at all  necessary  tomention	 the  measurement in the contract  forms  and  therewould be substantial compliance with the contract form, eventhough no measurement was mentioned therein, the very  basisfor the mention of such measurement having disappeared.It  was,  however, urged on behalf of  the  appellants	thatmeasurement was an essential part of the description of	 thegoods sold and the suspension of by-law 101 made it all	 themore  necessary that the measurement should be specified  inthe  contract form itself.  The standard  measurement  whichhad  been  mentioned in by-law 101 had	disappeared  and  itwould therefore be necessary to mention in the contract formwhat was the measurement on the basis of which the price  ofthe contract had been fixed by and between the parties.	  Ifthe  bales  actually tendered measured more in	weight	thanwhat  was  actually  agreed upon,  the	purchaser  would  beentitled  to  obtain from the seller an allowance  for	suchexcess	measurement  and  that was the	reason	why  it	 wasnecessary after the suspension of by-law 101 to mention	 theagreed measurement between the parties.This  argument however ignores the fact that  simultaneouslywith the suspension of the operation of the by-law 101,	 by-laws  96  and  119  which  referred  to	 forward  and  hedgecontracts  respectively were altered and provision was	madetherein	 to incorporate measures consequent upon the  tenderof bales bound with ropes359in  place  of bales bound with hoops.  The  consequences  ofsuch tenders were worked out in the by-laws as thus  amendedand  allowances	 in the price of bales bound with  ropes  asagainst	 the  price  of bales bound  with  hoops  were	alsoprovided for.  These allowances were in accordance with	 theresolution of the Board dated November 20, 1942, to be fixedbefore the commencement of the season and if such allowanceswere  provided for there was nothing further to be  done  inregard	to  the difference in measurement, if any.   If	 thesituation  which obtained after November 20, 1942,  providedfor  a	tender of bales bound with ropes  instead  of  balesbound with hoops in fulfilment of the contracts entered intobetween the parties, that was well known to all the  membersof the Association and it was open to them while fixing	 theprices	themselves  to take count of the extra	charges	 forinsurance  and	freight	 which	would  be  payable  by	 thepurchaser  in  the  event of bales bound  with	ropes  beingtendered instead of bales bound with hoops.  It,  therefore,follows that the omission to mention the measurements in thecontract   notes  did  not  render  the	 contracts  not	  inaccordance  with the by-laws.  There was no such  by-law  inoperation  at the time and even otherwise there was no	needwhatever to incorporate in the contract notes any term as tomeasurement.  It could not therefore be said that there	 wasany departure from an essential or a characteristic part  ofthe contract form or that the legal effect of the  contractswas changed so as to invalidate the same.When  we  come to the term in regard to the  differences  ofRs...............  above  or below the	settlement  rate  ofhedge  contract	 No...............  we find  that  that	 hadreference to periodical settlements of contracts through theclearing  house.  In accordance with bylaw 139 all  deliverycontracts  other  than those excepted under by-law  136	 andhedge  contracts  were	subject	 to  periodical	 settlementsthrough the Clearing House which settlements had to be	madeonce  weekly on days fixed by the Board.  If  the  contractshad  got to go through the clearing house in this manner  itwas necessary also that settlement rates should be fixed360and  by-law 141(1) provided that settlement prices  for	 allpositions  of  the  hedge contract should be  fixed  by	 theBoard.	The settlement prices thus fixed were to be taken asthe   basis  for  the  periodical  settlement  of   deliverycontracts  and it was further provided in bylaw 141(2)	thatsuch  allowance	 as shall be agreed upon by the	 parties  intheir  contracts to cover any difference between the  cottoncontracted  for	 and the cotton which was the basis  of	 thehedge  contract shall be added to or deducted from the	saidsettlement  prices.   This was the basis  of  the  provisioncontained in the relevant term of the contract form.  In thecase  of contracts for descriptions not	 renderable  againstthe  hedge  contract it was open to the	 parties  either  toagree upon an allowance above or below the hedge contract orthey  would  make  an application to the Board	to  fix	 thesettlement  rates.  Whenever there was an agreement in	thisbehalf	the  parties  were to mention  the  difference	thusagreed into the contract form and the periodical settlementsof delivery contracts were to be effected on that basis.The question arises as to whether the parties were bound  toenter into any such agreement at the time they entered	intothe contracts.	It was contended on behalf of the appellantsthat  such  an	agreement was  necessary  because  it  wouldotherwise involve the parties into payment of large sums  ofmoney  on  the	settlement day next after  the	day  of	 thecontract.  The hedge contracts appertained to cotton of	 thelowest	average and if the quality of cotton which  was	 thesubject-matter	of the contract between the parties was,  aswas usual, of a higher variety, it would involve the paymentof  large  amounts  by	way  of	 differences  on  the	nextsettlement  day,  which certainly would not  be	 within	 thecontemplation  of the contracting parties.  If that was	 so,the parties would agree to a difference between the rates ofthe cotton contracted for and the cotton which was the basisof  the	 hedge contract and this difference above  or  belowwould serve to minimize the incidence of such payment on thenext  settlement day.  It was, therefore, submitted that  itwas  incumbent on the parties when entering into a  contractto361fill-in	 this term as to differences.  If they	agreed	uponsuch differences the blank had to be filled-in	accordingly;but   even  though  they  did  not  agree  upon	  any	suchdifferences,  it  was necessary for them to mention  in	 thecontract form that the difference above or below the rate ofthe hedge contract agreed upon by them was nil.It  was	 contended  on	the other  hand	 on  behalf  of	 therespondent  that  there	 was no obligation  on	the  partiesentering  into the contract to fill in that term.   If	theyagreed upon the difference all well and good but if they didnot  agree  upon the difference, the first  part  of  by-law141(2) stepped in and the consequences had to be worked	 outas  if there was no agreement and the differences had to  bepaid on the settlement day next ensuing on the basis of	 thedifference  between  the contract rates and rates  of  hedgecontract,  even	 though	 it  may  involve  a  payment  of  asubstantial   amount  all  at  once.   According   to	thissubmission,  in	 the  case  of	contracts  for	descriptionstenderable  againt the hedge contract two  positions  arose:viz.,  (1)  parties  to the contract may not  agree  to	 anydifference  in which case it would not be necessary to	fillin  that term in the contract note or (2) they may agree  tothe  difference	 in  which event  the  difference  would  bementioned  in the contract note.  In the case  of  contractsfor descriptions which were not renderable against the hedgecontract three positions would arise, viz., (1) the  partiesmay  not agree upon any difference in which event  it  wouldnot be necessary to fill in the term as to difference in thecontract  notes;  (2)  the  parties  may  agree	 upon	suchdifference  and	 that  would have to  be  mentioned  in	 thecontract  notes or (3) the parties could apply to the  Boardto fix the settlement rates.It  appears  that  the contention urged	 on  behalf  of	 theappellants would be more in consonance with business idea,-,because	 no business man would think of immediately  forkingout a large sum of money on the next ensuing settlement day.It would be tantamount to paying the price of the goods or asubstantial  part  thereof  long  before  the  due  date  ofdelivery ever46362arrived.  While recognizing the necessity of arriving at  anagreement in this manner we are, however, not impressed withthe  argument that in the event of no such agreement  as  tothe  difference	 having	 been reached it would	even  so  benecessary   to	mention	 in  the  contract  note  that	 thedifference  agreed upon was nil.  When the  parties  enteredinto  the transactions all the terms and conditions  of	 thecontract  would	 certainly  be negotiated  and	agreed	uponbetween them.  It would be open to them, in view of the	 by-laws  above referred to, to agree upon the difference  aboveor  below  the settlement rate of hedge	 contracts  for	 thepurpose of facilitating the settlements through the clearinghouse.	 But  if  no  such difference  above  or  below	 thesettlement rate of hedge contracts were agreed upon  betweenthe  parties, it would not necessarily follow that the	wordnil had got to be mentioned in the contract notes.  The veryfact  that no difference above or below the settlement	rateof   hedge   contracts	was  agreed  upon  in	the   mannercontemplated would be enough to spell out an agreement	thatno  such  difference was to be computed in arriving  at	 thesettlement rates in respect of these contracts.	 If that wasthe true position it would be Superfluous to write the	word"  nil	"  as  contended  for  by  the	appellants  and	 theconsequences,  of such non mention would be the same  as  ifthe  difference agreed upon was nil.  By-law 141  (2)  couldthen be worked out without any difficulty and the settlementrates  in the case of delivery contracts would be  fixed  onthe  basis  of the settlement price of the  hedge  contractstaking	into  account  the facts that there  was  either  nodifference  which  was agreed upon or  that  the  differenceagreed	upon was a specific one which was mentioned  in	 thecontract notes.It was however pointed out on behalf of the respondents thatthe  official  contract	 form  contained  the  expression  "above/below   the   settlement	rate   of   hedge   contractNo.........  Even  though this may have been  in  consonancewith the position as it obtained when the hedge contracts offive  different	 varieties  were  in  vogue,  involving	 thespecification  of  hedge  contracts as Nos.  I	to  5,	thatposition substantially chanced			    363when hedge contracts of these 5 varieties were abolished andin  their place and stead was substitute, a  hedge  contractcalled	the 1. C. C. The five varieties of  hedge  contractswere also for different deliveries which did not necessarilycoincide one with the other and these contracts were not  onthe market all at one time, With the result that it would benecessary if the requirements of the contract form had to becomplied  with to fill in the blank not only  by  describingthe  hedge contract number, whether it was one or the  otherof the numbers I to 5 but also the particular hedge contractof  a particular delivery.  Even if it may be  assumed	thatthe blank to be filled in in this behalf required a  mentionnot  only of the hedge contract No but also of a  particulardelivery thereof, all that went by the board when the I.  C.C. was substituted in place of the hedge contract Nos.	I to5. The old contract form which had been prescribed by by-law80  was continued without any change being effected  thereinby virtue of such substitution and if at all the parties  toa contract were to fulfill the requirements of the  contractform, it would be necessary   for  them	 to strike  out	 thewords  " hedge contract No and put in their place and  steadthe word " 1. C. C. " Even there the 1. C. C. appertained todifferent deliveries which were not on the market all at onetime.	The months of delivery were nowhere required  to  befilled	in in the contract form, whether the  contract	formrequired the parties to have regard to the hedge contract Noor the I. C. C., and to that extent, it can be said that theparties were expected to rely upon their commonsense and thepractice  of  the trade as to what particular  delivery	 wascontemplated  when the contracts were entered  into  betweenthem.All this goes to show that the parties to the contract	werenot  tied  down	 to  a literal	compliance  with  the  termscontained in the official contract form but were required toact  according	to the position as it then obtained  and  ifthey  substantially  complied with the requirements  of	 thecontract form that was enough.	If the hedge contract No wasnot in vogue in the364market	they  need  not conform to  that  provision  in	 theofficial contract form but could make the necessary  changesin accordance with the type of hedge contract which was thenin  vogue.   Similarly,	 they would have to  record  in	 thecontract  form the agreement reached between them in  regardto the difference of Rs...... above or below the  settlementrate  of  the  hedge contract No...... if  they	 came  to  aparticular  agreement in that behalf. if, however,  no	suchagreement  was	reached	 between the  parties-and  here	 theeffect	of no agreement having been arrived at in regard  tosuch  difference  would	 be the same  as  if  the  agreementbetween	 them  was  that the difference	 was  to  be  nil-nomention	 need  be made of such difference  in  the  contractform.	The  result of either of the  two  latter  positionswould  be  that if the contracts were to  pass	through	 theClearing  House the settlement rates would be determined  onthe  basis  of the settlement price of	the  hedge  contractfixed  by  the Board for those various settlements  and	 theparties would have to pay to or receive from one another thedifferences   calculated  on  the  difference  between	 thecontract rates and those settlement rates.The whole of this discussion, however, is academic by reasonof the fact that in practice delivery contracts were not putthrough any periodical settlements and at all material timesthe  operation of this term in the official  contract  form'had  become  obsolete.	This position was  not	disputed  onbehalf of the appellants and their counsel stated before theCourt that he did not wish to dispute the fact that deliverycontracts  were at no time submitted to	 periodical  settle-ments  in  the Association.  The effect	 of  this  procedurebeing adopted in the Association was tacitly to suspend	 theoperation  of these by-laws as to periodical settlements  inrespect	 of delivery contracts and it would be	superfluous,nay absurd, on the part of the business people entering intocontracts  subject  to	the by-laws of	the  Association  toincorporate in the contract form provisions which had becomeobsolete.   If	the contracts were not to pass	through	 theperiodical  settlements	 in the Clearing House	no  questionwould365ever  arise of settlement rates requiring to be fixed,	muchless of the basis of such settlement rates being determined,or  of	the  difference	 of  Rs......  above  or  below	 thesettlement  rate of hedge contracts being ever	agreed	uponbetween	 the  parties.	If under  those	 circumstances,	 theparties	 did not fill in those blanks which required  to  befilled in in the official contract form on the basis of	 by-laws  139 and 141 being in operation, it could not  be	saidthat  they  had	 failed to  substantially  comply  with	 therequirements  of the official contract form.   The  officialcontract  form	had  to	 be  filled in	so  far	 as  it	 waspracticable.   The operation of these by-laws was in  effectsuspended  and by the tacit understanding of the trade	theywere  to be treated as if they did not exist.  It could	 nottherefore  be  urged  that  the	 parties  were	put  to	 thenecessity of agreeing to such differences, if having  regardto the circumstances that prevailed, it was impracticable todo  so and if these blanks were not filled in as  originallycontemplated  the  contract  notes could  certainly  not  beimpeached as being not in accordance with the by-laws of theAssociation.It  was, however, urged on behalf of the appellants that  ifthe parties to the contracts intended not to comply with therequirements  of  by-laws 139 and 141 that would  by  itselfvitiate	 the contracts because in that event  the  contractswould certainly be not in accordance with the by-laws of theAssociation.	The  parties  in  that	event  intended	  toperpetrate  an	illegality  at the  very  inception  of	 thecontracts  and the contracts were therefore void.  There  isconsiderable  force  in this argument  but we  do  not	feelcalled	upon to consider the same in view of the  fact	thatthat  was not the ground on which the validity of  the	suitcontract was challenged in the plaint.We are therefore of the opinion that the omission to fill inthose  blanks  in  the	contract notes	did  not  spell	 anydeparture from an essential or a characteristic part of	 thecontract  form nor was the legal effect of the contracts  inany  manner  changed thereby rendering	the  contracts	voidwithin	the meaning of s. 8 of the Bombay  Cotton  ContractsAct, 1932.366Both  these  grounds of attack against the validity  of	 thecontracts  in  question	 therefore fail and we	are  of	 theopinion	  that	the  contracts	entered	 into  between	 theappellant,-,  and the respondents were not void as  alleged.The  appellants were therefore not entitled to recover	fromthe respondents the said sum of Rs. 1,80,099-8-0 or any partthereof as alleged or at all and we are of the opinion	thatthe  appellate Court was right in rejecting the	 appellants'claim.We  cannot part with this appeal without observing that	 thewhole	difficulty  has	 been  created	by  reason  of	 theAssociation not having made the necessary alterations in thecontract  form	in  accordance, with  the  situation  as  itobtained. from time to time.  When by-law 101 was  suspendedin operation the Association ought to have deleted the	termas to measurement from the contract form.  When the  by-laws139  and  141  were virtually abrogated	 by  reason  of	 thedelivery   contracts  not  being  subjected  to	  periodicalsettlements in the Clearing House, the Association ought  tohave  similarly	 deleted the last clause from  the  officialcontract  form which required the difference of Rs above  orbelow the settlement rates of hedge contract No	  to	  befilled-in by the parties.  Equally untenable west	  heretention of the expression " Hedge Contract No	  when	 thefive different varies of hedge	   contracts were  abolishedand  one  hedge	 contract named 1.  C.	C.  was	 substitutedtherefor.   We	fully endorse the observations made  by	 theappellate Court in the course of its judgment:- "  We have had occasion to point out in the past how  badlythe by-laws of the East India Cotton Association are draftedand  how  clumsily the forms also settled, and	the  presentform is an illustration of what we have had occasion to	 sayin the past."The  manner  in which the official contract form  which	 hadbeen settled when the by-laws of the Association came  firstto be promulgated has been retained in its pristine glory inspite  of the various changes made in the operation  of	 theby-laws	 and  the practice of the trade	 only  enhances	 thedifficulties of the parties and enables the parties who	 areso minded to raise all367sorts  of  disputes tenable or otherwise in order  to  avoidtheir  liability in respect of the transactions effected  bythem  in  the  Association.   It  may  be  hoped  that	 theAssociation will take effective steps to bring the  officialcontract  form in conformity with the bylaw,%  in  operationfrom  time to time and the practice of the trade  prevailingin the Association.The  result  therefore is that this appeal  fails  and	muststand dismissed with costs throughout.			     Appeal dismissed.