PETITIONER:THE STATE OF BOMBAY	Vs.RESPONDENT:SALAT PRAGJI KARAMSIDATE OF JUDGMENT:07/03/1957BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.JAGANNADHADAS, B.IMAM, SYED JAFFERMENON, P. GOVINDACITATION: 1957 AIR  517		  1957 SCR  745ACT:Application of Laws-Law of one State made applicable anotherState-When  comes  into	 force-Adaptations-Words  "shall  beconstrued as "-Meaning of-Bombay Prevention of Gambling	 Act(Bom.  IV of 1887), s. 1-Kutch (Application of Laws) Order,1949.HEADNOTE:By cl. 3 of the Kutch (Application of Laws) Order, 1949, theBombay	Prevention  of Gambling Act (Bom.  IV of  1887)	 wasmade  applicable to Kutch.  Clause 4 of the  Order  providedthat  the  Acts	 applied to Kutch by the Order	"  shall  beconstrued " as if(1)  [1855] 25 L.J.Q.B. 6i (Regina v. Chester, Mayor, etc.)96746references  therein to the authorities and territories	werereferences  to the authorities and territories of  Kutch  asset out in that clause.	 The words "shall be construed as  "mean  "shall be read as" and: consequently wherever  in	 theBombay	Act  the  words	 "  Provincial	Government  "  or  "Government  "  are  used, they have to be read	as  "  ChiefCommissioner  of  Kutch	 and  the  words  ,Province  or	 thePresidency  of Bombay " as Kutch or any part thereof  ".  Sounderstood,  s.	 1  of the Bombay Act as  applied  to  Kutchprovided  that all or any of the provisions of that Act	 maybe  extended from time to time by the Chief Commissioner  ofKutch by an order published in the Official Gazette to	any,local  area  in Kutch or any part thereof.   The  contentionthat the Bombay Act had been validly extended to and was  inforce	in  the	 whole	of  Kutch  because  of	 the   Kutch(Application  of Laws) Order, 1949, is not sound.  The	trueposition is that the whole of the Act including amended s. 1became	applicable to Kutch and, therefore,  a	notificationwas  necessary before it could be brought into force in	 anypart of Kutch.	The Chief Commissioner issued a notificationon  November  28, 195o, bringing all the provisions  of	 theBombay	Act  into force throughout the whole of	 Kutch	withimmediate effect.  The Chief Commissioner of Kutch under  s.1  of the Bombay Act, had powers to issue  the	notificationmaking	that Act operative in Kutch or in any part of  Kutchand  those  powers  were not affected by  Art.	239  Of	 theConstitution.	The notification was valid and the Act	cameinto  force  in	 the  parts  of	 the  State  to	 which	 thenotification made it applicable.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 33  of1955.Appeal	under  Articles	 132  (1) and 134  (1)	(c)  of	 theConstitution of India from the Judgment and Order dated June30,  1954, of the Court of Judicial Commissioner,  Kutch  inCriminal Revision Application No. 13 of 1952.Porus A. Mehta and B. H. Dhebar, for the appellant.H. J. Umrigar, for the respondent.1957.  March 7. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byKAPUR J.-Two important questions arise for decision in	thiscase  of  a  small magnitude and the State  has	 filed	thisappeal	not  for the purpose of obtaining a  conviction	 butbecause	 of  the  importance of	 the  questions	 raised	 andimplications of the judgment747of the Judicial Commissioner.  The respondent was  convictedof  an	offence under s. 12(a) of the Bombay  Prevention  ofGambling  Act (Act IV of 1887 hereinafter termed the  BombayAct) as applied to Kutch and was sentenced to a fine of	 Rs.50  or in default simple imprisonment for 15 days  and	for-feiture of the amounts recovered from the respondent at	 thetime of the commission of the offence.	He took a'  revisionto the Judicial Commissioner of Kutch, who hold that the Actunder  which the respondent had been convicted had not	beenvalidly	 extended to and was not. in force in the  State  ofKutch.	 It  is the correctness of this decision  which	 hasbeen canvassed before us.There  was sufficient evidence against the respondent  whichwas  accepted by the trying magistrate; and if the  Act	 wasvalidly	 extended  to and was in operation in the  State  ofKutch, his conviction by the learned magistrate was  correctand  his  acquittal  by the  learned  Judicial	Commissionererroneous.On  June 7, 1951, the respondent, it was  alleged  committedthe  offence  he was charged with He was  convicted  by	 themagistrate  on	July  26,  1951, and  his  revision  to	 theSessions  Judge was dismissed.	He then took a	revision  tothe Judicial Commissioner of Kutch who allowed his  petitionon  June.  30, 1954, and granted a certificate	under  Arts.132(1) and 134(1) of the Constitution.Kutch before 1948 was what was called an Indian State.	 TheMaharao	 of Kutch handed over the gover. nance of the  Stateto the Dominion of India on June 1, 1948 and thus the  wholeadministration	of the State passed to the Dominion  and  itbecame a Centrally administered area.  On July 31, 1949, thethen  Central  Government  issued under s. 4  of  the  ExtraProvincial  Jurisdiction Act (Act XLVII of 1947),  an  ordercalled	the Kutch (Application of Laws) Order, 1949.   Undercl. 3 of this order certain enactments were applied to Kutchwith effect from the date of the commencement of the  order.One of these enactments was the -Bombay Act.  Clauses 4	 and6 of this order are important and may be quoted;7484.   "Except as otherwise specifically provided in the firstschedule to this order the enactments applied by this  ordershall	be  construed  as  if  references  therein  to	 theauthorities and territories mentioned in the first column ofthe   table  hereunder	printed	 were  references   to	 theauthorities   and   territories,   respectively,   mentionedopposite thereto in the second column of the said table.TABLE.1.   Provincial Government, Governor The Chief	Commissionerof Kutch. or Chief Controlling Revenue Authority.   2.	  Government	 The Central Government or the			  Chief Commissioner, as the con-			  text may require.   3.	  High Court	 Court of the judicial Commissioner,			  Kutch.4.   Provinces	of  India, any Province Kutch  or  any	partthereof of India or any part thereof.   5.	  The  Province or Presidency of Kutch or  any	partthereof.Bombay or any part thereof.6.   "	Any  Court  may	 construe  the	provisions  of	 anyenactment, rule, regulation, general order or byelaw appliedto  Kutch  or  any part thereof by  this  order,  with	suchmodifications	not  affecting	the  substance	as  may	  benecessary or proper in the circumstances."On  August  1,	1949, Kutch became  a  Chief  Commissioner'sprovince  under	 the  States  Merger  (Chief   CommissionersProvinces) Order, 1949.	 Clause 2(1)(c) of this order is  asfollows:"  As from the appointed day, the parts of States  specifiedin  the Second Schedule to this order shall be	administeredin  all	 respects  as if they were  a  Chief  Commissioner'sProvince,  and	shall  be  known  as  Chief   Commissioner'sProvince of Kutch."The  Second Schedule gives the parts of the pre-1947  IndianStates	which  were  to comprise  the  Chief  Commissioner'sProvince of Kutch.  Under el. 4 of this Order all laws whichwere in force including orders made under s. 4 of the  ExtraProvincial  Jurisdiction  Act of 1947, were to	continue  inforce until replaced.On  January  1, 1950, Merged States' Laws Act  (Act  LIX  of1949),	came into force.  By this Act certain  Central	Actswere extended to the province of Kutch749including  the	General	 Clauses Act (Act X  of	 1897).	  OnJanuary 26, 1950, the Constitution of India came into  forceand Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950, was promulgated the sameday.  Clause 4(1) of this order provides:"Whenever  an expression mentioned in column 1 of the  tablehereunder  printed  occurs  (otherwise than in	a  title  orpreamble or in a citation or description of an enactment) inan  (existing  Central or Provincial Laws) whether  an	Act,Ordinance  or Regulation mentioned in the Schedule  to	thisOrder or not, then, unless that expression is by this  Orderexpressly  directed to be otherwise adapted or modified,  orto  stand  unmodified,	or to be  omitted,  there  shall  besubstituted  therefor the expression set opposite to  it  incolumn 2 of the said Table, and there shall also be made  inany sentence in which the expression occurs  suchconsequential  amendments  as  the  rules  of  grammar	 mayrequire."     The necessary portions of the table are:     Province (except where it occurs     in any expression mentioned above) State     Provincial.............. State     Provinces (except where it occurs in     any expression mentioned above).	StatesClauses	 15  and  16 in	 (Part	III)-Supplementary,  are  asfollows:-15.  "	Save  as is otherwise provided by  this	 Order,	 allpowers	which  under any law in force in India or  any	partthereof	 were, immediately before the appointed day,  vestedin or exercisable by any person or authority shall  continueto be so vested or exercisable until other provision is madeby  some legislature or authority empowered to regulate	 thematter in question."16.  "	 Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this	 Order	 anyreference, by whatever form of words in any existing law  toany  authority competent at the date of the passing of	thatlaw  to exercise any powers or authorities, or to  dischargeany  functions,	 in  any  part	of  India  shall,  where   acorresponding new authority has been constituted by or underthe Constitution, have750effect	until  duly  repealed or amended as  if	 it  were  areference to that new authority."On November 28, 1950 the Chief Commissioner of Kutch  issuedthe following notification:In  exercise of the powers vested in him under section I  ofthe Bombay Prevention of Gambling Act, '1887 (IV of 1887) asapplied	 to Kutch by the Kutch (Application of Laws)  Order,1949  the Chief Commissioner has been pleased to order	thatall  the  provisions of the said Act shall come	 into  forcethroughout the whole of Kutch with immediate effect.  "On a consideration of all the Acts and Orders as well as theabove  mentioned  Adaptation  of Laws Order,  of  1950,	 thelearned	 Judicial Commisioner was of the opinion that  ,-allsuch powers vested in or exercisable by any other person  orauthority  before  26-1-1950  ceased  to  be  so  vested  orexercisable  by that person or authority ", and,  therefore,only the President, whether exercising the powers himself orthrough the Chief Commissioner, could exercise the powers ofa State Government and the Chief Commissioner himself  couldnot.  His finding therefore was that the Chief	Commissionercould not issue the above notification of November 28, 1950.In its appeal against the Order of acquittal by the  learnedJudicial Commissioner, the State has raised two questions:(1)that the Bombay Act had been validly extended to and	 wasin  force  in  the  whole of  Kutch  because  of  the  Kutch(Application of Laws) Order, 1949 and thus any contraventionof that Act became punishable under the Act, and(2)That	 even  if the Bombay Act was not  thus	extended  toKutch,	the Act became applicable to the State of  Kutch  bythe  issuing  of the notification of November28,  1950,	 andtherefore,  the	 respondent was rightly	 convicted  and	 theconviction  was	 wrongly set aside by the  learned  JudicialCommissioner.In:  order  to	decide the first contention we have  to	 seewhat is the effect of the various provisions of the Acts andOrders above -referred to.  In cl. 4 of the751Kutch (Application of Laws) Order, 1949, the words; used areshall  be  construed as if reference therein.......  In	 ouropinion all that these words mean is I shall be read as' andif  that is how these words are understood then wherever  inthe  Bombay Act the words 'Provincial Government'  are	usedthey have to be read as the Chief Commissioner of Kutch; theword  Government has to be read as the " Chief	Commissionerof Kutch"; and the Province or the " Presidency of Bombay  "as  " Kutch or any part thereof ". If the Bombay Act  is  soread, then at the time when the Constitution came into forcethe words Provincial Government or Government or Province orPresidency  of	Bombay were no longer in the Act  which	 hadbecome applicable to the State of Kutch.  On the other hand,the  words there must be taken to be Chief  Commissioner  ofKutch,	and  Kutch or any part thereof,	 respectively.	 Thefallacy in the learned Judicial Commissioner's judgment liesin  this that due effect was not given to these words  whichhad  become substituted, but emphasis was laid on the  words'shall be construed as' as if these words had been used	 forthe purposes of interpretation of the different words in theBombay.	  Act  rather  than  implying  substitution  of	 thecorresponding  words.  In this view of the matter cl. 2	 (1)(c)  of the States Merger (Chief  Commissioners'  Provinces)Order,	1949  which provided for the administration  of	 theState of Kutch as if it was a Chief Commissioner's Province,would not affect the position nor would the extension of theGeneral	 Clauses  Act  under the Merged	 States'  Laws	Act.Clause	4  of  the  Adaptation	of  Laws  Order,  1950	onlysubstituted  in place of the words Province, Provincial	 andProvinces the words State or States, wherever they  occurredin  any	 existing law, and the effect of cls. 15 and  16  ofthat  order was the continuance of the powers vested in	 theauthorities  in whom they had previously been  vested.	 Theposition  which therefore emerges on a combined	 reading  ofthese  various clauses is that in Bombay Act, as applied  toKutch, the words I Presidency of Bombay' were to be replacedby  the.  words	 'Kutch	 or any	 part  thereof'	 and  the  IProvincial752Government'  by the I Chief Commissioner of Kutch'  and	 thepowers	which  had been given to the  different	 authoritiesunder  the different Acts were to continue to remain in	 theperson or persons in whom they were already vested.  As	 thepowers	had been vested in the Chief Commissioner under	 theprovisions of these various Acts and Orders, they  continuedto remain so vested and the General Clauses Act did not haveany  operational  effect on these various words	 which	wereused in the Bombay Act as modified and applied toKutch.,SO  understood,  s.  1	 of the Bombay	Act  would  read  asfollows:-" This Act may be cited as the Bombay Prevention of GamblingAct,  1887.   All or any of its provisions may	be  extendedfrom  time to time by the Chief Commissioner of Kutch by  anorder  published  in the " Official Gazette " to  any  localarea in Kutch or any part thereof."The  Chief Commissioner of Kutch may, from time to time,  byan  order published as aforesaid, cancel or vary  any  ordermade by it under this section."The portion of this section, viz.,  "It  extends	to  the city of Bombay,	 to  the  Island  ofSalsette, to all Railways and railway Station houses withoutthe  said  city and island and to all places not  more	thanthree  miles  distant from any part of such  station  housesrespectively  " would not continue in the Act as applied  toKutch because these parts are not in the State of " Kutch orany  part thereof " and cl. 6 of the Kutch  (Application  ofLaws) Order, 1949 would come into operation forthe purpose.It  was then contended that by the mere application  of	 theBombay Act to Kutch it became operative and came into  forcein  the	 whole	of Kutch.  This argument  suffers  from	 theinfirmity  that	 in  its application to Kutch s.  1  of	 theBombay	Act  would  have to be excluded which  would  be  anincorrect way of looking at the question.  The true positionis  that  the whole of the -Act including amended  s.  1  asgiven  above,  became applicable to Kutch  and	therefore  anotification753,was necessary before it could be brought into force in	 anypart of Kutch.	It was applied to Kutch, but its  provisionswere  not in operation before the notification; and  in	 ouropinion,  the  judgment	 of  Baxi  J.  C.  in  Agaria  OsmanAlarakhya v. The Kutch State (1) which has been followed  inthe case now before us, to the extent that it dealt with thenecessity  of a notification under s. 1 of the	Bombay	Act,was  correctly decided; and therefore, the first  contentionraised by counsel for the appellant is unsustainable and  wehold that without a notification, the Bombay Act, could	 notbe held to have been validly applied to the State of Kutch.This brings us to the second question, i.e., the validity ofthe  notification issued on November 28, 1950.	The  learnedJudicial Commissioner held:"  The Chief Commissioner of a Part C State can act to	suchextent	as he is authorised by the President to	 do.   Thesebeing  the  provisions of the Constitution, the	 Bombay	 Actmust  be  construed  with the adaptation that  the  rule  ofconstruction  mentioned in the Kutch (Application  of  Laws)Order,	1949  is deleted.  Hence, even	if  substitution  ofexpression as mentioned in para 4 of the Adaptation of	LawsOrder, 1950 is not made, the rule of construction  mentionedin   the  Kutch	 (Application  of  Laws)  Order,  1949	 forconstruing the expression I Provincial Government' as the  IChief Commissioner, Kutch' does not survive.  "Article 239 of the Constitution relates to administration ofPart C States and provides:"  Subject  to the other provisions of this  Part,  a  Statespecified  in  Part  C	of  the	 First	Schedule  shall	  beadministered  by the President acting, to such extent as  hethinks	fit, through a Chief Commissioner or  a	 Lieutenant-Governor to be appointed by him........... This Article	 hasbeen  relied  upon for urging that in a Part  C	 State,	 theadministration had to be carried on by the President  actingthrough	 a Chief Commissioner.	But this does not take	awaythe powers of the Chief Commissioner given to him under	 anyother Statute or(1)  A.I.R. (1951) Kutch 9.97754Order.	 The Chief Commissioner of Kutch under s. I  of	 theBombay Act, had the power to issue notifications making thatAct operative in Kutch or any part of Kutch and those powerswere   not  affected  by  Art.	239  of	  the	Constitutionparticularly  because  of el. 15 of the Adaptation  of	LawsOrder,	1950,  which  preserved these powers  of  the  ChiefCommissioner.	Therefore,  the notification issued  by	 theChief Commissioner on November 28, 1950 was valid and issuedunder  legal authority; and the Act came into force  in	 theparts  to which the notification made it so applicable.	  Wehave  therefore,  come to the conclusion  that	the  learnedJudge was in error in holding that the notification was	 nota  valid  one  and in so far as that was the  basis  of	 theacquittal of the accused, the judgment under appealmust be set aside.In  the	 result	 the appeal of the  State  is  allowed,	 thejudgment of the learned Judicial Commissioner acquitting therespondent  is set aside and that of the learned  Magistratesentencing  him to a fine of Rs. 50 and sentence in  defaultand of forfeiture restored.Appeal allowed.