PETITIONER:THE PRINTERS (MYSORE) PRIVATE LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:POTHAN JOSEPH.DATE OF JUDGMENT:27/04/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.GUPTA, K.C. DASCITATION: 1960 AIR 1156		  1960 SCR  (3) 713 CITATOR INFO : R	    1973 SC2071	 (5) R	    1989 SC 839	 (19)ACT:Arbitration   Agreement-Power	of  court  to	stay   legalproceedings-Order   by	 trial	court	refusing   stay	  ofproceedings  affirmed in appeal--supreme Court, if and	whencan interfere with concurrent exercise of discretion by	 thecourts	below-Arbitration  Act,	 1940 (x  Of  1940),  s.  34Constitution of India, Art. 136.HEADNOTE:The  respondent was the Editor of the Deccan  Herald,  ownedand  published	by  the appellant,  and	 the  two  contractsexecuted by the parties contained an arbitration clause thatif in the interpretation or application of the contract	 anydifference  arose  between  the parties the  same  shall  bereferred  to  arbitration  and the award  shall	 be  bindingbetween	 the parties and also provided for, apart  from	 hismonthly	 salary,  the payment of 10% of the profits  to	 therespondent.   Upon  the termination of his services  by	 theappellant,  the respondent brought a suit for  accounts	 andpayment	 of the profits found due to him.  The appellant  byan714application  pleaded that the suit ought to be stayed  underS. 34 of the Arbitration Act, 1940, and the dispute referredto arbitration in accordance with the agreement between	 theparties.  The trial judge refused to exercise his discretionin favour of the appellant and refused to stay the suit.  Onappeal	the High Court confirmed the decision of  the  trialcourt.	The appellant came up to this Court by special leaveunder Art. 136 of the Constitution:Held, that the power conferred on the court by S. 34 Of	 theArbitration Act, 1940, is discretionary and even though	 theconditions  specified therein were fulfilled no party  couldclaim there under a stay of legal proceedings instituted  ina court as a matter of right.  But the discretion vested  inthe court is a judicial discretion and must be exercised  assuch  in  the  facts and circumstances	of  each  case.	  Noinflexible  rules  can,	 therefore, be laid down  f  or	 itsexercise and the court has to act according to common  senseand justice.Gardner v. Jay, (1885) 29 Ch.  D. 50, referred toWhere the discretion under the section has been properly andjudiciously exercised by the trial court the appellate courtwould not be justified in interfering with such exercise  ofdiscretion  merely on the ground that it would have taken  acontrary  decision  if it had considered the matter  at	 thetrial stage.  But if it appears to the appellate court	thatthe trial court has exercised its discretion unreasonably orcapriciously or has ignored relevant facts or has approachedthe matter unjudiciously, it would be its duty to interfere.Charles	 Osenton  &  Co.  v. jhanaton,	(1942)	A.  C.	130,referred to.The  words " interpretation and application of the  contractfrequently used in arbitration clauses, as they have been inthe contracts in question, cover not only disputes  relatingto  the construction of the relevant terms of  the  contractbut  also  their effect, and unless the	 context  compels  acontrary construction, a dispute relating to the working  ofthe contract falls within such a clause.But the Supreme Court would not lightly interfere under Art.136 of the Constitution with the concurrent exercise of dis-cretion of the courts below under s. 34 Of the Act.   Beforeit  can justly do so, the appellant must satisfy the  Court,on the relevant facts referred to by the courts below,	thatthey exercised their discretion in a manifestly unreasonableor  perverse  way  which was likely to defeat  the  ends  ofjustice.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 107 of 1960.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedSeptember 21, 1959, of the Mysore High Court, Bangalore,  inMisc.  Appeal No. 68 of 1959.Purshottam  Prikamdas,	S.  N.	Andley,	 J.  B.	 DadaChanji,Rameshwar Nath and P. L. Vohra, for the appellant.715K. R. Karanth and Naunit Lal, for the respondent.1960.  April 27.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR,	 J.  The respondent, Pothan Joseph, who	 wasworking	 as  the  Editor  of the  Deccan  Herald  owned	 andpublished  by the appellant, The' Printers (Mysore)  PrivateLtd., in Bangalore has filed a suit against the appellant ontwo contracts executed between the parties on April 1, 1948,and  February  20,  1953,  respectively,  and  has   claimedaccounts of the working of the Deccan Herald newspaper	fromApril 1, 1948, to March 31, 1958, as well as payment of	 theamount	that  may  be found due to him	from  the  appellanttinder	the  provisions of cls. 2(d) and 1(d)  of  the	saidcontracts.   The services of the respondent were  terminatedby the appellant by its letter dated September 28, 1957,  inwhich  the  respondent was told that the  termination  wouldtake  effect from March 31, 1958.  However, by a  subsequentletter	written by the appellant to the respondent on  March17, 1958, the respondent was told that his services had beenterminated  with immediate effect and he was asked  to	handover  charge  to his successor, Mr. T. S.  Ramachandra	Rao.Thereafter  on	July  14, 1958, the  respondent,  filed	 thepresent suit against the appellant.The appellant contended that the two contracts on which	 therespondent's claim was based were subject to an	 arbitrationagreement, and so it was not open to the respondent to	filethe  present  suit against the	appellant.   The  appellant,therefore,  requested  the Court under s. 34 of	 the  IndianArbitration Act, 1940, (hereinafter called the Act), to staythe  proceedings initiated by the respondent and  refer	 thedispute	 to arbitration in accordance with  the	 arbitrationagreement between the parties.The   learned	trial  judge  who  heard   the	 appellant'sapplication,  however, exercised his discretion	 against  itand  refused  to stay the proceedings  in  the	respondent'ssuit.	Thereupon the appellant preferred an appeal  in	 theMysore	High Court but his appeal failed and the High  Courtconfirmed  the	order passed by the trial court	 though	 fordifferent reasons.  The High716Court,	however,  thought that the learned trial  judge,  indealing	 with  the appellant's application " bad  gone	muchfurther than he should have done, and hence it was desirablethat  the  case should be tried by some other judge  ".	 Therespondent  did not object, and so the High  Court  directedthat  the  suit	 may  be transferred  to  the  file  of	 theAdditional  Civil  Judge,  Bangalore.	The  appellant	thenapplied	  to  the  High	 Court	for  a	 certificate.	 Hisapplication  was, however, rejected on the ground  that	 thedecision under appeal could not be considered as a judgment,decree or final order under Art. 133(1) of the	Constitution; on that view it was thought unnecessary to decide  whetheron the merits the case was fit to be taken in appeal to thisCourt.	Then the appellant applied for and obtained  specialleave  from  this Court.  That is how this appeal  has	comebefore	us; and the substantial point which arises  for	 ourdecision  is  whether  the courts below	 were  in  error  inrefusing  to stay the suit filed by the	 respondent  againstthe  appellant in view of the arbitration agreement  betweenthem.Before we deal with the merits of the contentions raised  bythe  parties  in  this appeal it is  necessary	to  set	 outbriefly	  the	relevant  facts	 leading  to   the   presentlitigation.  The appellant is a printing company and it ownsand publishes the Deccan Herald in English and Prajavani  inKannada	 at Bangalore.	By a contract dated April  1,  1948,the appellant engaged the respondent as Editor of the DeccanHerald	for a period of five years on terms  and  conditionsspecified  in the said contract.  As provided by el. (5)  ofthe said contract the period of the respondent's  employmentwas extended by another five years by a subsequent  contractentered	 into between the parties on February 20, 1953.	  Aswe  have  already mentioned the services of  the  respondentcame  to  be  terminated abruptly on  March  17,  1958.	  Itappears	 that  by  his letter dated October  16,  1957,	 therespondent  made certain claims against the appellant  underthe provisions of the Working Journalists Act.	Besides,  hedemanded  1/10th  of the profits made by the  Deccan  Heraldfrom  1948 up to the date of the termination of his  serviceunder the two respective contracts.  This claim was717denied by the appellant.  Correspondence then ensued betweenthe  parties  but  since no  common  ground  was  discoveredbetween	 them  the respondent filed the present	 suit.	 Hiscase is that the two contracts entitled him to claim  1/10thof  the profits made by the Deccan Herald during the  periodof his employment,, and so he claims an account of the	saidprofits and his due share in them.The   learned	trial  judge  found  that   the	  respectivecontentions  raised  by the parties before him	showed	thatthere  was  no	dispute as such	 between  them	which  couldattract	 the  arbitration agreement.  He also held  that  anattempt was made by the parties to settle their	 differencesamicably through the mediation of Mr. Behram Doctor but	 thesaid  attempt failed because the appellant was	not  seriousabout it and was just trying " to protract, defeat and delaythe  plaintiff	's moves".  According to the  learned  trialjudge  a plea of limitation would fall to be  considered  inthe  present  suit and it was desirable that the  said	pleashould	be  tried  by  a  competent  court  rather  than  byarbitrators.	He  was,  however,  not	 impressed  by	 therespondent's   contention  that	 his  character	  had	beenimpeached  by the appellant and so he should be	 allowed  tovindicate  his	character in a trial before a  court  ratherthan before the arbitrators.  In dismissing the	 appellant'sclaim  for stay of the suit the learned judge observed	thatif the accounts of the Deccan Herald had not been separatelymaintained it would be competent for a qualified  accountantto   allocate  expenses	 and  capital  expenses	 among	 thedifferent  activities of the appellant and then very  littlewould  be left for arbitrators to decide.  He had  no  doubtthat  the contract by which the respondent was	entitled  toclaim  1/10th  share  in the profits of	 the  Deccan  Heraldnecessarily  postulated	 that  the accounts  of	 the  DeccanHerald	 would	 be   separately   maintained.	  On   theseconsiderations the trial judge refused to stay the suit.When the matter went in appeal the High Court held that	 thedispute	 between  the  parties	did  not  fall	within	 thearbitration  agreement.	 The High Court also considered	 theother  points decided by the trial court; it held  that	 Mr,Behram Doctor had not been93718appointed as an arbitrator between the parties and that	 theproceedings  before him merely showed that the parties	wereexploring  the	possibility of having  an  arbitration.	  Itobserved  that the appellant company was a big	concern	 andreferred  to the respondent's apprehension that it was in  aposition to dodge the respondent's claim.  However, the HighCourt  was not impressed by these apprehensions, and it	 wasnot inclined to find fault with the conduct of the appellantin  the	 trial court.  It was also not	satisfied  that	 thequestion of limitation which would arise in the suit as wellas  the question of interpreting the contracts could not  beproperly tried by arbitration.	It recognised that there hadbeen a complete change of front on the part of the appellantin  regard  to the pleas raised by the appellant  under	 thearbitration  agreement when the matter was discussed  beforeMr. Behram Doctor, and when it reached the court in the formof  the present suit.  The High Court then considered  otherfacts which it thought were relevant.  It stated that  therewas  great deal of bad blood between the parties  and  therewas  no meeting ground between them.  The  appellant's	pleathat  recourse to arbitration may help an early disposal  ofthe  dispute did not appeal to the High Court as sound,	 andso,  on	 the whole, the High Court thought  that  the  orderpassed	by the trial court refusing to stay the	 proceedingsin  suit should be confirmed.  The appellant  contends	thatthe reasons given by the High Court in refusing to stay	 thesuit  are not convincing and that the discretion vesting  inthe  High  Court  in that behalf has not  been	properly  orjudiciously exercised.Section	 34  of the Act confers power on the court  to	staylegal  proceedings where there is an  arbitration  agreementsubject	 to  the conditions specified in the  section.	 Theconditions thus specified are satisfied in the present case,but the section clearly contemplates that, even though thereis  an	arbitration agreement and the  requisite  conditionsspecified  by it are satisfied, the court  may	neverthelessrefuse	to  grant  stay if it is satisfied  that  there	 aresufficient reasons why the matter should not be referred  inaccordance with the arbitration agreement.  In other  words,the power to719stay  legal proceedings is discretionary, and so a party  toan arbitration agreement against whom legal proceedings havebeen   commenced  cannot  by  relying  on  the	 arbitrationagreement claim the stay of legal proceedings instituted  ina  court as a matter of right.	It is, however,	 clear	thatthe  discretion	 vested in the court, must be  properly	 andjudicially  exercised.	Ordinarily where a  dispute  betweenthe parties has by agreement between them to be referred  tothe  decision of a domestic tribunal the court would  directthe  parties to go before the tribunal of their	 choice	 andstay  the legal proceedings instituted before it by  one  ofthem.  As in other matters of judicial discretion, so in thecase  of the discretion conferred on the court by s.  34  itwould  be  difficult, and it is indeed inexpedient,  to	 laydown  any inflexible rules which should govern the  exerciseof the said discretion.	 No test can indeed be laid down theautomatic application of which will help the solution of theproblem	 of  the exercise of judicial  discretion.   As	 wasobserved  by  Bowen,  L. J., in Gardner v. Jay	(1)  "	thatdiscretion,   like  other  judicial  discretion,   must	  beexercised  according  to  common  sense	 and  according	  tojustice.  "In  exercising its discretion under s. 34 the  court  shouldnot refuse to stay the legal proceedings merely because	 oneof the parties to the arbitration agreement is unwilling  togo  before an arbitrator and in effect wants to resile	fromthe  said agreement, nor can stay be refused merely  on	 theground that the relations between the parties to the disputehave  been  embittered or that the  proceedings	 before	 thearbitrator  may cause unnecessary delay as a result  of	 thesaid  relations.  It may not always be reasonable or  properto  refuse  to stay legal proceedings  merely  because	somequestions  of  law  would arise	 in  resolving	the  disputebetween	 the  parties.	 On  the other	hand,  if  fraud  ordishonesty is alleged against a party it may be open to	 theparty  whose character is impeached to claim that it  shouldbe  given  an opportunity to vindicate its character  in  anopen trial before the court rather than. before the domestictribunal, and in a proper case the. court may consider	thatfact as relevant for deciding(1)  (1885) 29 Ch.  D 30 58,720whether stay should be granted or not.	If there has been  along  delay in making an application for stay and  the	saiddelay  may  reasonably be attributed to the  fact  that	 theparties	 may  have abandoned the arbitration  agreement	 thecourt may consider the delay as a relevant fact in  decidingwhether	 stay  should  be granted  or  not.   Similarly,  ifcomplicated questions of law or constitutional issues  arisein  the decision of the dispute and the court  is  satisfiedthat  it would be inexpedient to leave the decision of	suchcomplex issues to the arbitrator, it may, in a proper  case,refuse	to grant stay on that ground; indeed, in such  casesthe  arbitrator	 can and may state a special  case  for	 theopinion	 of the court under s. 13(b) of the Act.  Thus,	 thequestion  as to whether legal proceedings should  be  stayedunder  s.  34  must  always be decided by  the	court  in  ajudicial  manner  having regard to the	relevant  facts	 andcircumstances of each case.Where  the  discretion vested in the court under s.  34	 hasbeen exercised by the trial court the appellate court shouldbe  slow  to  interfere	 with  the  exercise  of  the	saiddiscretion.  In dealing with the matter raised before it  atthe  appellate stage the appellate court would normally	 notbe justified in interfering with the exercise of  discretionunder appeal solely on the ground that if it had  consideredthe  matter  at	 the trial stage it would  have	 come  to  acontrary  conclusion.  If the discretion has been  exercisedby  the trial court reasonably and in a judicial manner	 thefact  that the appellate court would have taken a  differentview  may  not justify interference with the  trial  court'sexercise of discretion.	 As is often said, it is  ordinarilynot  open  to  the appellate court  to	substitute  its	 ownexercise  of discretion for that of the trial judge; but  ifit  appears  to the appellate court that in  exercising	 itsdiscretion  the	 trial	court  has  acted  unreasonably	  orcapriciously  or has ignored relevant facts and has  adoptedan  unjudicial approach then it would certainly be  open  tothe appellate court-and in many cases it may be its  duty-tointerfere with the trial court's exercise of discretion.  Incases falling under this class the exercise of discretion bythe trial721court  is  in  law  wrongful and  improper  and	 that  wouldcertainly  justify  and	 call  for  interference  from	 theappellate  court.   These principles are  well	established;but,  as  has  been observed by Viscount Simon,	 L.  C.,  inCharles	 Osenton & Co. v. Johnston (1) " the law as  to	 thereversal  by a court of appeal of an order made by a,  judgebelow in the exercise of his discretion is well established,and   any  difficulty  that  arises  is	 due  only  to	 theapplication  of	 well settled principles  in  an  individualcase".In  the present case there is one more fact which has to  beborne in mind in dealing with the merits of the	 controversybefore us.  The appellant has come to this Court by  specialleave  under Art. 136; in other words, the appellant is	 notentitled to challenge the correctness of the decision of theHigh  Court  as	 a  matter of right.   It  is  only  in	 thediscretion of this Court that it can be permitted to disputethe correctness or the propriety of the decision of the HighCourt,	and so in deciding whether or not this Court  shouldinterfere  with the order under appeal it would be  relevantfor us to take into account the fact that the remedy  soughtfor   by  the  appellant  is  by  an  appeal  which   is   adiscretionary matter so far as this Court is concerned.	  Itis  in the light of these principles that we  must  considerwhether	 or not the appellant's complaint against  the	HighCourt's order can be upheld.The  first point which calls for a decision relates  to	 theconstruction  of the contracts between the parties.   As  wehave already stated two contracts were executed between thembut  their  terms are substantially the same and so  we	 maydeal  with  the subsequent contract which  was	executed  onFebruary 20, 1953 (P. 2). Under this contract the respondentwas  engaged  as  the Editor of the Deccan  Herald  and	 hissalary	was fixed at Rs. 1,500 permensem under	paragraph  1(a).   Paragraph 1(b) and (c) deal with the other  amenitiesto  which  the	respondent  was	 entitled.   Clause  (d)  ofparagraph 1 provides that when the newspaper shows a  profitin  the	 annual	 accounts the Editor shall  be	entitled  to1/10th	share of it is on this clause that the	respondent'sclaim in the present proceedings is(1)  [1942] A.C 130, 138.722based.	 The terms on which the respondent had to remain  inthe service of the appellant are specified in paragraph 2(a)and  (b).   Paragraph  3 provides for  the  renewal  of	 thecontract  for a further period of five years if it is  foundthat  such  renewal  is	 for the  mutual  advantage  of	 theparties.   This	 paragraph  also provides  that	 during	 thecontinuance  of	 his  employment the  respondent  shall	 notdirectly or indirectly be interested in any other  newspaperbusiness   than	  that	of  the	 appellant  or	 any   otherjournalistic  activities  in competition with  that  of	 theappellant.   It	 also  stipulates that if  the	contract  isdetermined  the respondent shall not for a period  of  threeyears thereafter be directly or indirectly interested in anynewspaper business of the same kind as is carried on by	 theappellant  within the Mysore State.  It would thus  be	seenthat  this  paragraph  shows the liability  imposed  on	 therespondent  as a consideration for the benefit conferred  onhim  by	 paragraph  1 in general and cl.  (d)  of  the	saidparagraph   in	 particular.   Paragraph   4   contains	  anarbitration   agreement.   It  provides	 that  if   in	 theinterpretation or application of the contract any differenceof  opinion  arises between the parties the  same  shall  bereferred  to  arbitration.  The arbitrator can be  named  byboth  the  parties  but if they failed to  choose  the	sameperson each side will choose an arbitrator and the two	willelect  another	person to complete the panel.	Their  awardshall be final and binding on both the parties.The High Court has held that the present suit is outside thearbitration  agreement	because neither party  disputes	 theapplicability  of the terms of the contract in the  decisionof the dispute.	 The High Court thought that in the  contextthe  words 'application of the contract' meant a dispute  asto  the	 applicability	of  the	 contract,  and	 since	 theapplicability  of  the contract was not in question  and  nodispute as to the interpretation of the contract arose,	 theHigh  Court  held that paragraph 4 was inapplicable  to	 thepresent suit.  Mr. Purshottam, for the appellant, con. tendsthat the construction placed by the High Court on the word "application   "	 is  erroneous.	  According  to	  him,	 anydifference  of opinion in regard to the application  of	 thecontract must in the context mean723the,  working  out of the contract or giving effect  to	 itsterms.	 In  our opinion, this contention is  well  founded.The  words 'interpretation or application of  the  contract'are  frequently	 used  in arbitration  agreements  and	theygenerally  cover disputes between the parties in  regard  tothe  construction of the relevant terms of the	contract  aswell  as their effect, and unless the con-' text  compels  acontrary construction, a dispute in regard to the working ofthe  contract  would  generally fall within  the  clause  inquestion.  It is not easy to appreciate what kind of disputeaccording to the High Court would have attracted paragraph 4when it refers to a difference of opinion in the applicationof  the	 contract.  Since both the parties have	 signed	 thecontract  the question about its applicability in that	formcan  hardly arise.  Differences may, however, arise  and  infact have arisen as to the manner in which the contract	 hasto  be worked out and given effect to, and it  is  preciselysuch  differences  that	 are  covered  by  the	 arbitrationagreement.   We would accordingly hold that the	 High  Courtwas  in error in coming to the conclusion that	the  presentdispute	 between  the  parties	was  outside  the  scope  ofparagraph 4 of the contract.If   the  High	Court  had  refused  to	 stay  the   presentproceedings only on this ground the appellant would no doubthave  succeeded; but the High Court has based  its  decisionnot  only,  nor	 even mainly, on  the  construction  of	 thecontract.  The tenor of the judgment suggests that the	HighCourt  considered  the	other relevant facts  to  which	 itsattention was invited and the material findings recorded  bythe  trial  judge, and though it differed from some  of	 thefindings  of  the  trial  judge, on the	 whole	it  felt  nodifficulty  in	coming to the conclusion that there  was  noreason	to  interfere  with the trial  court's	exercise  ofdiscretion  under  s.  34.  That is  why,  even	 though	 theappellant  has	succeeded before us on the question  of	 theconstruction of the arbitration agreement, having regard  tothe limits which we generally impose on the exercise of	 thejurisdiction  under Art. 136, he must still satisfy us	thatwe  would  be justified in interfering with  the  concurrentexercise  of  discretion by the two courts below,  and	thatwould inevitably depend upon the other724relevant  facts to which both the courts have referred,	 andon which both of them have relied though in different ways.What  then are the broad features of the case on  which	 thetrial judge and the High Court have respectively relied ? Itis  clear that the present dispute is not the result  of  anordinary  commercial transaction containing  an	 arbitrationclause.	  The contract in question is between  a  journalistand his employer by which the remuneration of the journalisthas been fixed in a somewhat unusual manner by giving him  aspecified  percentage in the profit which the Deccan  Heraldwould  make from year to year.	According to the  respondenthe  was	 surprised  when the General Manager  of  the  paperinformed him that 75% of the overall expenditure incurred inthe several activities of the appellant was being charged tothe  Deccan  Herald, and that the capital  liabilities	werecharged in the same proportion; he thought that this  systemof accounting adopted by the appellant was repugnant to	 thematerial  provisions  in his contract.	Indeed his  case  isthat after he came to know about this system he protested tothe  Director, Mr. Venkataswamy, who has been taking  activepart  in the affairs of the appellant, and Mr.	Venkataswamyassured him that as from the beginning of 1955 the  accountswere being separately maintained.  It would appear that	 theinformation  received  by the respondent  from	the  GeneralManager	 disillusioned	him  and  that	appears	 to  be	 thebeginning   of	the  present  dispute,	according   to	 therespondent's  letter of May 24, 1955, (D. 1).	On  February18,  1956, the respondent invoked the arbitration  agreementand told Mr. Venkataswamy that Mr. Behram Doctor had  agreedto  work  as  arbitrator and give his  award  (D.  2).	 Mr.Venkataswamy  who  was addressed by the	 respondent  as	 theManaging  Director told him by his reply of March  5,  1956,that he was not the Managing Director and added that in his'view  it was not open to the respondent to invoke cl.  4  ofthe  contract  because	he was aware  that  no	monies	werepayable to the respondent under el. 1(d).  It would thus  beseen that Mr. Venkataswamy's immediate response to the	res-pondent's request for arbitration was that the respon-725dent could not invoke the arbitration clause (D. 3).  It  istrue  that on April 23, 1956, Mr. Venkataswamy attempted  toexplain	 this statement by saying that all that he  intendedto suggest was that no occasion for invoking the arbitrationagreement  had	arisen.	  That, however, appears  to  be  anunsatisfactory	 explanation   (D.  10).    Even   so,	 Mr.Venkataswamy  agreed  to meet Mr. Behram Doctor	 and  so  onMarch  9, 1956, the respondent gave to Mr. Venkataswamy	 theaddress	 of Mr. Behram Doctor and asked him to see  him	 (D.5).   He informed Mr. Behram Doctor accordingly (D. 6).	  Itappears	 that subsequently Mr. Behrain Doctor met  both	 therespondent  and	 Mr.  Venkataswamy  on	May  9,	 1956.	 Theproceedings  of	 this meeting which have been  kept  by	 Mr.Behram Doctor and copies of which have been supplied by	 himto  both  the  parties	indicate  that	Mr.  Behram   Doctorattempted to mediate between the parties and presumably	 theparties were agreeable to secure the mediation of Mr. BehramDoctor	to  resolve the dispute.  We ought to add  that	 thecopy  of  the  said proceedings produced  by  the  appellantcontains  a  statement that Mr. Venkataswamy at	 the  outsettold  Mr. Behram Doctor that he had; come on  an  unofficialvisit  and  was speaking without the consent  of  the  otherdirectors.   This statement is, however, not to be found  inthe  copy supplied by Mr. Behram Doctor to  the	 respondent.Prima  facie  it is not easy to understand  why	 Mr.  BehramDoctor	should have omitted this material statement in	 thecopy supplied by him to the respondent.	 That, however, is amatter	which  we do not propose to pursue  in	the  presentappeal.	 It is thus clear that though Mr. Behram Doctor	 wasnot appointed an arbitrator and no reference in writing	 wasmade to him an attempt was made by the parties to settle thedispute	 with the assistance of Mr. Behram Doctor, and	thatattempt failed.	 Having regard to the facts which have	comeon  the record it may not be unreasonable to infer that	 theappellant was not too keen to pursue the matter on the linesoriginally  adopted  by both the parties before	 Mr.  BehramDoctor.It  also  appears that for some years the, accounts  of	 theDeccan Herald had not been separately kept as94726they  should have been according to the	 respondent's  case.The  respondent	 alleges  that	they  have  not	 been	keptseparately  throughout the ten years ; but that is a  matterwhich  is yet to be investigated.  If the accounts  are	 notseparately kept the question of allocating expenditure wouldinevitably arise and that can be decided after adopting somead  hoc principle in that behalf.  A plea of limitation	 hasalso  been  indicated  by  the appellant  and  it  has	beensuggested  that	 the  first contract having  merged  in	 thesecond	it  is	only  under the	 latter	 contract  that	 therespondent may have a cause of action.	"Thus the effect  ofthe  two  contracts  considered	 together  may	have  to  beadjudged in dealing with the question of limitation.  It hasalso  been  suggested  that  the  respondent  knew  how	 theaccounts were kept from year to year and in substance he maybe deemed to have agreed with the method adopted in  keepingthe  accounts.	If this point is raised by the appellant  itmay involve the decision of the question about the effect ofthe  respondent's conduct on his present claim.	 The  appel-lant  has also suggested that the respondent has adopted  anattitude  of blackmailing the appellant and  the  respondenttreats that as an aspersion on his character.  The relationsbetween	 the parties have been very much embittered and	 therespondent  apprehends that the appellant, being a  powerfulcompany, may delay and seek to defeat the respondent's claimby  protracting the proceedings before the arbitrators.	  Itnow looks impossible that the parties would agree to appointone  arbitrator,  and  so  if the  matter  goes	 before	 thedomestic  tribunal the two arbitrators appointed by the	 twoparties	 respectively  may have to nominate a third  one  tocomplete the constitution of the domestic tribunal, and thatit  is	said may easily lead to a deadlock.   In  the  trialcourt attempts were made to settle this unfortunate  disputebut  they failed and the respondent's grievance is that	 theappellant adopted an unhelpful and noncooperative  attitude.It  appears fairly clear that when the parties entered	intothe  present  contract and agreed that	differences  betweenthem in regard to the interpretation and application of	 thecontract should be referred to727arbitration they did not anticipate the complications  whichhave  subsequently  arisen.   That  is	why  an	 arbitrationagreement  may	have  been introduced  in  the	contract  inquestion.  All these facts have been considered by both	 thecourts,	 and  though it is true that in their  approach	 andfinal  decisions  in respect of these facts the	 two  courtshave  differed	in material particulars, they  have  in	 theresult agreed with the conclusion that the discretion vestedin them should be exercised in not granting stay as  claimedby the appellant.  Under these circumstances we do not thinkwe  would  be justified in substituting our  discretion	 forthat of the courts below.  It may be that if we were  tryingthe  appellant's application under s. 34 we might have	cometo  a  different  conclusion;  and also	 that  we  may	havehesitated to confirm the order of the trial court if we	 hadbeen dealing with the matter as a court of first appeal; butthe matter has now come to us under Art. 136, and so we	 canjustly	interfere  with	 the  concurrent  exercise  of	 thediscretion by the courts below only if we feel that the saidexercise   of	discretion  is	 patently   and	  manifestlyunreasonable, capricious or perverse and that it may  defeatthe ends of justice.  Having regard to all the circumstancesand  facts of this case we are not disposed to hold  that  acase  for  our	interference  has  been	 made  out  by	 theappellant.   That is why we dismiss this appeal but make  noorder as to costs throughout.				  Appeal dismissed.