PETITIONER:Y. NARAYANA CHETTY & ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE INCOME-TAX OFFICER, NELLORE AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:15/10/1958BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  213		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 189 CITATOR INFO : F	    1961 SC1026	 (6)ACT:       Income-tax-Rule	empowering  Income-tax	Officer	 to  cancel       registration  of	 firm  found not  be  genuine-Validity	of-       Registered  firm, if an assessee-Seryvice of notice on  firm       through Partner, if valid and proper-Writ Petition, if  lies       against	illegal assessment Indian Income-tax Act, 1922	(XI       Of 1922), SS. 23, 34-Income-tax Rules, r. 6B-Constitution of       India, Art. 226.HEADNOTE:Two persons, B and C, formed a partnership firm on April 20,1936, and the firm was dissolved on March 31, 1948.  I and Calong  with R formed a second firm on July 30, 1941, and  itwas  dissolved on March 31, 1949.  B and C along  with	fiveothers	formed a third firm on December 1, 1941, and it	 wasdissolved  on  January 1, 1949.	 All the  three	 firms	werecarrying on business in yarn and cloth and all of them	wereregistered  under  S. 26-A of the Income-tax Act.   For	 theyears  1943-44 and 1944-45 tile said firms were	 treated  asseparate entities and separate assessment orders were passedin  respect of the income of each one of them for  the	saidyears.	Subsequently, the Income-tax Officer served  noticesunder S. 34 Of the Act on C on behalf of the firms and afterhearing	 the parties he held that the firms were  fictitiousand  so	 cancelled  their registration under r.	 6B  of	 theIncome-tax  Rules  and	passed fresh  orders  of  assessmentagainst them on the basis that they were unregistered firms.One  Y who was a partner in the third firm and C filed	fourwrit  petitions	 under Art. 226 of the Constitution  in	 theHigh  Court challenging the validity of the  orders  passed.The   High  Court  dismissed  the  petitions   but   grantedcertificates of fitness to appeal190under  Art.  133.  The appellants contended that r.  6B	 wasinconsistent  with S. 23(4) of the Act and was ultra  vires,that  consequently the cancellation of registration  of	 thefirms  was  without jurisdiction and was void and  that	 theproceedings taken under s. 34 Of the Act were invalid as therequired  notice  was  not  issued  against  the  individualpartners who were the assesses.Held,  that r. 6B of the Income-tax Rules was not  inconsis-tent with S. 23(4) Of the Act and was not ultra vires.	Rule6B  dealt with cancellation of registration in	cases  wherethe  certificate  of registration had been  granted  withoutthere  being  a genuine firm in existence,  while  S.  23(4)dealt  with  cancellation  of  registration  on	 account  offailure	 to comply with the requirements of law, though	 theregistered firm was genuine.  Rule 6B was obviously intendedto carry out the purpose of the Act and was valid.  The factthat no appeal had been provided against an order made underr.  6B was no ground for challenging its validity.   It	 wasalso  not open to the appellants to contend that the  orderspassed under s. 6B were invalid on the ground that the	ruledid  not  require the giving of any notice before  the	can-cellation of registration as in the present case notice	 hadactually been given and the appellants had been afforded  anopportunity of being heard.Held,  further, that in the cases of registered	 firms,	 thefirms themselves were the assessees and as such the  noticesissued under S. 34 against the firms and served upon C	werevalid and proper notices, :and it was not necessary to servenotices	 upon  the individual partners of  the	firms.	 Thenotice	prescribed  by	s.  34 was  not	 a  mere  proceduralrequirement.   If  no  notice was issued or  if	 the  noticeissued was shown to be invalid then the proceedings taken bythe Income-tax Officer would be illegal and void.Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay City v. Ramsukh  Motilal,[1955]	27 I.T.R. 54 and R. K. Das & Co. v. Commissioncy  ofIncome-tax, West Bengal, [1956] 30 I.T.R. 439, approved.The   contention  that	the  assessments   were	  completelyillogical  and	therefore illegal could not be	urged  in  apetition under Art. 226 of the Constitution since it did notraise any question of jurisdiction.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals nos. 317 to	 320of 1957.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated March 5, 1954,  ofthe Madras High Court, in Writ Petitions Nos. 613 and 629 of1952 and 201 and 202 of 1953.A.   V.	 Viswanatha  Sastri  and B.  K. B.  Naidu,  for	 theappellants.191A.   N.	 Kripal, R. H. Dhebar and D. Gupta,  for  respondentNo. 1.1958.  October 15.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyGAJENDRAGADKAR,	 J.-These  four	 appeals  arise	 from	fourpetitions  filed  against the Income-tax  Officer-,  NelloreCircle, Nellore, respondent 1, in respect of the proceedingstaken  by him against three firms under s. 34 of the  IndianIncome-tax Act (hereinafter called the Act).  The firm	M/s.Bellapu Audeyya and Chilla Pitchayya was formed on April 20,1936, and it was dissolved on March 31, 1948.  It  consistedof  two	 partners,  Chilla Pitchayya  and  Bellapu  Audeyya.Chilla	Pitchayya had started another firm in the  name	 andstyle  of G. Pitchayya & Co. with another partner  R.  SubbaRao.   This  firm was formed on July 30, 1941,	and  it	 wasdissolved  on March 31, 1949.  Bellapu Audeyya and.   ChillaPitchayya had also formed another firm along with five otherpartners which carried on its business in the name and styleof  Prabbat Textiles.  This firm was formed on	December  1,1941,  and it "-as dissolved by a decree of the civil  courtPassed	oil December 22, 1949, the dissolution having  takeneffect	from  January  1, 1949.	 All the  three	 firms	werecarrying on business in yarn and cloth and all of them	wereregistered under s. 26A of the Act.  It appears that for thepurpose of assessing the income of these firms for the years1943-44	 and 1944-45, respondent 1 was satisfied  on  makingenquiries that each of the three firms was a separate entityand so separate assessment orders were passed in respect  ofthe income of each one of them for the said two years.Subsequently on August 14, 1951, respondent I issued  noticeagainst the firm of Prabliat Textiles under s.34 of the Act.In  the proceedings thus commenced, respondent I  hold	thatthe firm of Prabhat Textiles was a fictitious tirm and	thatthe  real partners ",ere C. Pitchayya and B. Audeyya.  As  aresult	 of  this  finding,  respondent	 I   cancelled	 theregistration of the said firm under r. 6B of the  Income-taxRules and passed fresh orders of assessment against the saidfirm on the192basis  that it was an unregistered firm for  the  assessmentyears  1943-44 and 1944-45 on August 14, 1952, and  February25,  1953,  respectively.   Similar  action  was  taken	  byrespondent  I in respect of the two other firms on the	samedates.Thereupon  Y.  Narayana Chetty, one of the partners  of	 thePrabhat Textiles filed a writ petition in the High Court  ofMadras, No. 613 of 1952, against respondent I under Art. 226of  the Constitution and prayed that the High Court,  shouldissue  a writ of prohibition or any other appropriate  writ,order  or  direction prohibiting the first  respondent	fromcontinuing  the proceedings as per his notice of August	 14,1951,  and  from  enforcing the order  of  fresh  assessmentpassed	in  the	 said proceedings oil August  14,  1952,  inregard to the assessment year 1943-1944.  In respect of	 thesame  firm Chilla Pitchayya sought for a similar  relief  byWrit  Petition No. 201 of 1953 in regard to the	 proceedingsand  assessment order for the assessment year 1944-45.	 Thesame Chilla Pitchayya also filed Writ Petitions Nos. 629  of1952 and 202 of 1953 in respect of the proceedings taken andfresh  assessment  orders passed against the  two  remainingfirms	for  the  assessment  years  1943-44   and   1944-45respectively.  The four petitions were heard together by theHigh  Court  and  were	dismissed on  March  5,	 1954.	 Thepetitioners  then  applied for and obtained  from  the	HighCourt  a certificate under Art. 133 read with 0. XLV, r.  1,2, 3 and 8 that the value of the subject-matter in the peti-tions before the High Court as well as of the appeals beforethis  Court  was  more than Rs. 20,000.	  It  is  with	thiscertificate  that  the four appeals have  come	before	thisCourt.	Y. Narayana Chetty is the appellant in Civil  AppealNo. 317 of 1957 whereas Chilia Pitchayya is the appellant inCivil Appeals Nos. 318, 319 and 320 of 1957.In  the High Court it was urged by the appellants  that	 theproceedings taken under s. 34 against each of the said firmswere  without jurisdiction and void.  It was also  contendedthat  the  cancellation of the registration of each  of	 thefirms  was similarly void and without jurisdiction  inasmuchas r. 6B under whichthe  said order of cancellation was passed was	ultra  viresthe  Central  Board of Revenue which promulgated  the  rulesunder  the -powers conferred on it by the Act.	Besides	 theappellants  attacked  the  validity  of	 the  orders  passedagainst	 them under s. 31 on the ground that it was  illegalto  assess escaped income under s. 34 on the basis that	 thefirms were unregistered firms while maintaining the originalassessment  for	 the said firms on the basis that  they	 hadbeen  duty  registered under s. 26A of the  Act.   The	HighCourt  has held against the appellants on all these  points.Besides	 the high Court has stated in its judgment  that  itwas  admitted by the appellants before it that	appeals	 hadbeen filed against each one of the orders challenged in	 thewrit proceedings and the High Court thought that that itselfwould  suffice	to  justify  its  refusal  to  exercise	 itsjurisdiction  under Art. 226 of the Constitution.   However,since  the  primary relief asked for by	 the  appellants  intheir  respective  petitions  was  the	issue  of  writ	  ofprohibition the If High Court felt that it may as well	dealwith the merits of the contentions raised by the appellants.That  is why the High Court examined the merits of the	saidcontentions.   On behalf of the appellants,  Mr.  ViswanathaSastri has raised the same three points before us.The first point raised by Mr. Sastri is that the proceedingstaken  by  respondent I under s. 34 of the Act	are  invalidbecause	 the  notice required to be issued  under  the	saidsection	  has	not  been  issued  against   the   assesseescontemplated  therein.	In the, present case the  Income-taxOfficer	 has purported to act under s. 34(I)(a) against	 thethree firms.  The said sub-section provides inter alia	that"  if the Income-tax Officer has reason to believe  that  byreason	of  the	 omission  or failure on  the  part  of	 theassessee to make a return of his income under s. 22 for	 anyyear  or  to  disclose fully and truly	all  material  factsnecessary for his assessment for that year, income,  profitsor gains chargeable to income-tax has been under-.assessed",he may, within the nine prescribed, " serve on the  assesseea notice containing all or any of the requirements which may194be included in the notice under sub-s. (2) of s..22 and	 mayproceed	 to  reassess such income, -profits or	gains."	 Theargument is that the service of the requisite notice on	 theassessee  is  a condition precedent to the validity  Of	 anyreassessment made under s. 34; and if a valid notice is	 notissued	as  required, proceedings taken	 by  the  Income-taxOfficer	 in  pursuance of an invalid notice  and  consequentorders	of  reassessment passed 'by him would  be  void	 andinoperative.   In  our	opinion, this  contention  is  well-founded.  The notice prescribed by s. 34 cannot be  regardedas  a  more procedural requirement; it is only if  the	saidnotice	is  served  on the assessee  as	 required  that	 thelncome-tax Officer would be justified in taking	 proceedingsagainst him.  If no notice is issued or if the notice issuedis shown to be invalid then the validity of the	 proceedingstaken  by  the	Income-tax Officer without a  notice  or  inpursuance  of an invalid notice would be illegal  and  void.That  is  the  view taken by the Bombay	 and  Calcutta	HighCourts	in-the	Commissioner of Incometax,  Bombay  City  v.Ramsukh	 Motilal (1) and B. K. Das & Co. v. Commissioner  ofIncome-tax,  West Bengal (2) and we think that that view  isright.Let us then consider the nature of the notice issued by	 theIncome-tax  Officer  in	 the  present  proceedings.   It  isconceded by Mr. Sastri that the notice issued by the Income-tax  Officer  was served on the appellant  C.  Pitchayya  onbehalf	of the firms in question and that in each  case	 thenotice specifically averred that the Income-tax Officer	 hadreason	to believe that the income of the assessee had	beenunder-assersed	in  the relevant years of  assessment.	 Thenotice	further	 required  the assessee to  deliver  to	 theofficer within thirty-five days of the receipt of the noticea return in the attached form of the total income and  totalworld  income  of the assessee assessable for  the  relevantperiod.	 In pursuance of this notice the appellant Pitchayyain fact appeared before the officer during the course of theproceedings  commenced under s.34. Mr. Sastri contends	thatthis  notice is defective be cause it purports to be  issuedAgainst the firm and no(1) [1955]'27 I.T.R. 54.(2) [1956] 30 I.T.R. 439.195notice	has been issued against the respective	partners  ofthe  firm.   According	to Mr. Sastri the  assessee  who  isentitled  to a notice under s. 34(1)(a) is not the firm	 buteach individual partner of the firm.  He also suggests	thateach individual partner should have been called upon to makea  return  of his total income assessable for  the  relevantyear; inasmuch as the notice is issued against the firm	 andnot  against individual partners it is invalid.	 In  supportof  this  argument  Mr.	 Sastri	 has  referred	us  to	 thedefinition of the word " assessee" under s. 2, cl. (2) as itstood  prior  to  the amendment of  1953.   Under  the	saidclause,	 assessee  meant  " person  by	whom  income-tax  isclearly payable".  In the case of a registered firm  income-tax  is	 clearly payable by the individual partners  of	 thefirm under s. 23(5) of the Act, savs Mr. Sastri; and so,  ifthe  Income-tax Officer intended to take action under s.  34it  was	 his  duty to issue  the  requisite  notice  againstindividual  partners in respect of their respective  incomesfor  which they were liable to pay the tax.   This  argumentpurports  to derive support from the provisions of s.  23(5)as they stood before the amendment introduced in 1956.	 Theeffect	of the said provisions was that "the sum payable  bythe firm itself shall not be determined but the total incomeof  each partner of the firm including therein his share  ofits income, profits and gains in the previous year shall  beassessed  and  the sum payable by him on the basis  of	suchassessment  shall be determined "; so that what the  Income-tax  Officer had to do in assessment proceedings  against  aregistered  firm was to determine the total income  of	eachpartner of the firm and not to determine the sum payable  bythe firm itself.  The argument is that this provision  showsthat  the person liable to pay the tax was  each  individualpartner of the firm and so it is the individual partners  ofthe  firm who are entitled to the statutory notice under  s.34(1)(a).   In	our  opinion, this  argument  is  not  well-founded.  Section 3 of the Act which is the charging sectionprovides inter alia that "where any Central Act enacts	thatincome-tax can be charged for any year at any rate or rates,tax at that rate or those rates shall be196charged for that year in accordance with and subject to	 theprovisions of this Act in respect of the total income of theprevious  year of every firm ; " in other words, a  firm  isspecifically  treated as an assessee by s. 3.  Besides,	 theword  "person"	used by s. 2, sub S. (2) of  the  Act  whiledefining the assessee, would obviously include a firm  unders. 3(42) of the General Clauses Act since it provides that aperson	includes  "any	company or association	or  body  ofindividuals  whether incorporated. or not ".  Therefore,  itwould  not  be correct to say that an assessee under  s.  2,sub-s.	(2)  of	 the Act  necessarily  means  an  individualpartner-  and does not include a firm.	The  argument  basedupon  the relevant provisions of s. 23(5) is also not  validbe. cause it is obvious that for the purposes of  assessmentat  all relevant and material stages under ss. 22 and 23  itis  the firm that is treated as an assessee.  When a  returnof the income is made for the relevant year, it is a  returnwith  regard to the total income of the firm that has to  besubmitted  under s. 22; and when assessment is levied  unders.  23, the Income-tax Officer determines and can  determinethe  total  income of each partner of the  firm	 only  afterascertaining the total income of the firm itself It is	truethat  s.  23(5)	 as it then stood  required  the  Income-taxOfficer to determine the total income of each partner of thefirm including his share of the firm's income and to  assesseach  partner in respect of such income, and in	 that  senseindividual partners of the firm undoubtedly became liable topay  income-tax	 ; but it is clear that in  determining	 thetotal income of each partner his share in the firm's  incomehas  to be included and so the firm does not cease to be  anassessee for the purpose of s. 23(5).  This position is	 nowclarified  by the provisions of s. 23(5)(a)(i) and  (ii)  asamended	 in  1956.   The present  s.  23(5)(a)(i)  and	(ii)provides:S.   23(5)(a)(i) and (ii):(5)  Notwithstanding  anything	contained in  the  foregoingsub-sections,  when  the assessee is a firm  and  the  totalincome	of the firm has been assessed under subsection	(1),sub-section (3) or sub-section (4), as the case may be			    197(a)  in the case of a registered firm-(1)  the income-tax payable by the firm itself shallbe determined; and(ii) the  total,  income  of  each.  partner  of  the  firm,including therein his share of its income, profits and gainsof the previous year, shall be assessed and the sum  payableby him on the basis of such assessment shall be determined:and so it is clear that the registered firm does not at	 allcease to be an assessee under this provision.In  this  connection  it would be relevant to  refer  to  S.23(4).	This subsection provides:"  If  any person fails to make the return required  by	 anynotice given under subsection (2) of section 22 and has	 notmade a. return or a revised return under sub-section (3)  ofthe same section or fails to comply with all the terms of  anotice issued under sub-section (4) of the same section	 or,having made a return, fails to comply with all the terms  ofa  notice issued under subsection (2) of this  section,	 theIncome-tax Officer shall make the assessment to the best  ofhis  judgment and determine the sum payable by the  assesseeon the basis of such assessment and, in the case of a  firm,may refuse to register it or may cancel its registration  ifit is already registered:Provided  that	the  registration of a	firm  shall  not  becancelled until fourteen days have elapsed from the issue ofa, notice by the Income-tax Officer.to the firm	 intimatiiighis intention to cancel its registration"This  provision	 clearly shows that the person to  whom	 thefirst  part of the provision refers includes a firm  and  itlays down that if a firm commits a default as indicated	 theIncome-tax  Officer may refuse to register it or may  cancelits  registration if it is already registered.	 Thus  therecan  be	 no  doubt that s. 23(4) treats	 the  fit-in  as  anassessee and provides for the imposition of penalty  againstthe  firm  in  case the firm commits  any  of  the  defaultsindicated  in the sub-section.	The effect of  the  relevantprovisions of s. 23 therefore is that for the assessment  ofthe  total taxable income it is the affairs of the  assesseefirm that are investigated and198examined   and	when  the  total  income  of  the  firm	  isascertained,  it is allocated to its individual partners  inproportion  to their respective shares.	 The result of	suchallocation undoubtedly is to make the partners liable to paytax in respect of their taxable income thus allocated ;	 butthat  cannot justify the inference that the firm is  not  anassessee in the relevant proceedings.Even when the notice is issued under s. 34(1)(a) the Income-tax  Officer proceeds to act on the ground that the  income,profits	 and  gains of the firm which are chargeable  to  anincome-tax have been under-assessed; it is the income of thefirm  which  is	 initially  ascertained	 in  the  assessmentproceedings  under  s. 23 and it is in respect of  the	saidincome of the firm that the Income-tax Officer finds that  apart  of it has escaped assessment.  We do  not,  therefore,think  that the appellant's argument that the notice  issuedagainst	 the  firm and served on the appellant	was  invalidunder s. 34(1)(a) can be accepted.It  is then urged that the Income-tax Officer was  bound  toissue notices to individual partners of the firms because atthe  material  time all the firms had been  dissolved.	 Mr.Sastri concedes that under s. 63 (2) a notice or requisitionunder the Act may in the case of a firm be addressed to	 anymember	of the firm but his contention is that this  appliesto a firm in existence and not to a firm dissolved.  If the,appellants'  case is that as a result of dissolution of	 thefirms the firms had discontinued their business as from	 therespective  dates  of dissolution they ought to	 have  givennotices	 of such discontinuance of their business  under  s.25(2)  of the Act.  Besides, in the present case,  the	mainappellant  has in fact been served personally and the  otherpartners who may not have been served have made no grievancein the matter.	We are, therefore, satisfied that it is	 notopen to the appellants to contend that the proceedings takenby  the Income-tax Officer under s. 34(1)(a) are invalid  inthat  notices of these proceedings have not been  served  onthe  other alleged partners of the firms.   Incidentally  itmay be pointed out that the finding of199the Income-tax Officer in respect of all the three firms  isthat  the  only	 persons who had interest  in  the  businesscarried	 on  by	 the  said firms  were	B.  Audeyya  and  C.Pitchayya.   It is remarkable that B. Audeyya has not  caredto challenge the proceedings or to question the validity  ofthe fresh assessment orders passed by the Income-tax Officerin the present proceedings.Mr. Sastri then challenges the validity of the	cancellationof the registration of the three firms on the ground that r.6B  under which the Income-tax Officer purported to  act  isultra  vires.	Rule 6B provides that in the  event  of	 theIncome-tax  Officer  being satisfied  that  the	 certificategranted under r. 4 or under r. 6A has been obtained  withoutthere  being a genuine firm in existence he may	 cancel	 thecertificate  so granted.  The material rules of which r.  6Bis  a part have been framed by the Central Board of  Revenueunder  the  authority conferred by s. 59 of the	 Act.	Thissection	 empowers the Central Board of Revenue,	 subject  tothe  control of the Central Government, to make rules  interalia  for carrying out the purposes of the Act.	 Section  59(2)(e) lays down that such rules may provide for any  matterwhich  by  this	 Act  is to  be	 prescribed  and  the  rulespreceding r. 6B deal with the procedure to be followed,	 andprescribe  the application to be made, for the	registrationof  firms under s. 26A of the Act.  Section  59(5)  providesthat  the  rules  made	under  the  said  section  shall  bepublished  in the official gazette and shall thereupon	haveeffect	as if enacted in this Act.  Thus there is  no  doubtthat  the  rules  are  statutory rules	and  once  they	 arepublished  in the official gazette they are operative as  ifthey  were  a  part of the Act.	 Mr.  Sastri  concedes	thisposition; but he argues that r. 6B is inconsistent with	 thematerial provisions in the Act and is therefore ultra  viresthe  Central  Board  of Revenue.   This	 argument  is  basedsubstantially  on  the	provisions of  s.  23(4).   We	havealready referred to the provisions of this subsection.	 Mr.Sastri contends that it is only where the requirements of s.23(4)  are satisfied that the registration of a firm can  becancelled.  The procedure for registration of firms is	laiddown in s. 26A of200the  Act.   An application has to be made to  the  IncometaxOfficer	 on  behalf  of	 any  firm  constituted	 Linder	 theinstrument  of partnership specifying the individual  sharesof the partners for registration for the purposes of the Actand  of any other enactment for the time being in force	 andrelating,  to  income-tax  and	supertax.   Sub-section	 (2)requires  that the said application ,,hall be made  by	suchperson or persons and, at such times and shall contain	suchparticulars  and  shall be in such form and be	verified  insuch manner as may be prescribed and it shall be dealt	withby   the  Incometax  Officer  in  such	manner	as  may	  beprescribed.   It is in pursuance of the requirements  of  s.26(2)  that the relevant rules for the registration  of	 thefirms  have  been made.	 The question which arises  for	 ourdecision  in  this  connection	is:  if	 a  firm  has	beenregistered  Linder  s. 26A, when can  such  registration  becancelled  ? The appellant suggests that the only  cases  inwhich	such  registration  can	 be  cancelled	 are   thoseprescribed in s. 23(4).	 We have no doubt that this argumentis  fallacious.	 The cancellation of registration  under  s.23(4)  is in the nature of a penalty and the penalty can  beimposed	 against  a  firm  if it is guilty  of	any  of	 thedefaults  mentioned  in the said subsection.   It  would  benoticed that where registration is cancelled under s. 23(4),there is no doubt that the application for registration	 hadbeen properly granted.	The basis of an order under s. 23(4)is  not	 that  the  firm which had  been  registered  was  afictitious  one,  but that, though the registered  firm	 wasgeniuine, by its failure to comply with the requirements  oflaw  it had incurred the penalty of having its	registrationcancelled.   That  is  the effect of the  provisions  of  s.23(4).	On the other hand, r. 6B deals with cases where	 theIncome-tax  Officer  is	 satisfied  that  a  certificate  ofregistration  has  been granted under r. 4 or  under  r.  6Awithout there being a genuine firm in existence ; that is togay  an	 application for registration had been made  in	 thename  of  a  firm which really did not exist;  and  on	thatground	the  Income-tax Officer proposes to  set  right	 thematter by cancelling the certificate which should never havebeen granted to the201alleged	 firm.	 That being the effect of r. 6B	 it  is	 im-possible  to accede to the argument that the  provisions  ofthis  rule are inconsistent with the provisions of s.  23(4)of the Act.  If the Income-tax Officer is empowered under s.26A  read  with the relevant rules to grant  or	 refuse	 therequest	 of the firm for registration, it would normally  beopen to him to cancel such registration if he discovers thatregistration  had been erroneously granted to a	 firm  whichdid  not  exist.   Rule 6B has been  made  to  clarify	thisposition and to confer on the Income-tax Officer in  expressand specific terms such authority to review his own decisionin  the matter of the registration of the firm when he	dis-covers	that  his  earlier decision  proceeded	on  a  wrongassumption about the existence of the firm.  In our opinion,there  is no difficulty in holding that r. 6B  is  obviouslyintended to carry out the purpose of the Act and since it isnot  inconsistent with any of the provisions of the Act	 itsvalidity is not open to doubt.It is, however, urged that whereas the firm aggrieved by theorder  passed by the Income-tax Officer under s.  23(4)	 canchallenge  the correctness or propriety of the order  in  anappeal	against the final assessment order passed  under  s.23,   no  such	remedy	is  available  to  the	firm   whoseregistration is cancelled under r. 6B.	We are not impressedby  this argument.  The validity of the rule cannot, in	 ouropinion,  be challenged merely on the ground that no  appealhas  been  provided  against  the  order  passed  under	 theimpugned  rule.	 It is also true that whereas before  takingaction under s. 23(4) the Income-tax Officer is required  toissue a notice to the firm, no such provision is made  underr. 6B. Mr. Sastri has, however, conceded that the  appellantbefore us had notice and was given an opportunity to satisfythe  Income-tax	 Officer  that	the  respective	 firms	weregenuine	 and not fictitious.  Thai being so we do not  thinkthat  it would be open to the appellant to contend that	 theorder  passed  against	him under r. 6B is  invalid  on	 thepurely	academic ground that r. 6 B does not require  noticeto be issued before the registration of a firm is cancelled.If the power26202under r. 6B is exercised by the Income-tax Officer against afirm  without giving it a notice in that behalf and  withoutaffording  it an opportunity to satisfy the officer that  itis  a genuine firm, it may be open to the firm	to  questionthe validity of the order on that ground.  We are,  however,not  called  upon to deal with such a case  in	the  presentappeals.   In this connection we may incidentally  refer  tothe   decision	of  this  Court	 in  Ravula  Subba  Rao	  v.Commissioner of 1. T., Madras (1) where this Court has	heldthat  rules (2) and (6) of the rules framed under s.  59  ofthe  Indian  Income-tax Act are not ultra  vires  the  rule-making authority.The last argument which Mr. Sastri sought to raise before uswas that the revised assessment is completely illogical, andtherefore  illegal,  in each case inasmuch as  the  originalassessment for the two assessment years still remains as  onthe basis that the firms in question are registered and	 thefresh  assessment in respect of the escaped income  for	 thesame years is made on the basis that the said firms are	 notregistered.   Mr.  Sastri says that it is not  open  to	 theIncome-tax Officer to adopt such a course.  If	registrationhas  been  cancelled the whole of the assessment  should  bemade  on that footing; the department cannot treat the	firmas  registered for part of the income, and unregistered	 forthe  balance, during the same assessment years; that is	 Mr.Sastri's  grievance.   We do not propose to  deal  with	 themerits	of this contention.  There can be no doubt  that  itwould be open to the appellants to raise this contention  inthe  appeals which they have filed against the fresh  ordersof  assessment.	 We understand that applications  have	beenmade  by  the appellants in respect of the  said  orders  ofassessment  under  s.  27 of the Act.  If that	be  so,	 theappellants  may, if it is open to them to do  so,  ventilatetheir grievance in the said proceedings also.  We hold	thatthis  contention cannot be urged in petitions for  writs  ofprohibition  under Art. 226 of the Constitution, since	theydo  not	 raise any question of jurisdiction.  All  that	 theappellants would be able to argue on this ground(1)  [1956] S.C.R. 577.203would  be that the course adopted by the Income-tax  Officerin  making  orders  of fresh  assessment  is  irregular	 andillogical  and	should	be  corrected.	 That  is  a  matterconcerning the merits of the orders of assessment and by  nostretch of imagination can it be said to raise any  questionof  jurisdiction under Art. 226.  That is why we express  noopinion' on this point.Before we part with this case we would like to, observe thatMr.  Kripal  for  the  respondent  sought  to  raise   threepreliminary  objections.  He urged that the issue of a	writis  a  discretionary  matter and since the  High  Court	 hasrefused	 to  exercise  its  discretion	in  favour  of	 theappellants  the	 appeals  would	 be  virtually	 incompetentinasmuch  as this Court would be slow to interfere with	 theexercise  of discretion by the High Court.  He	also  arguedthat   the  original  petitions	 to  the  High	 Court	 areincompetent   under  Art.  226	since  under  the  Act	 theappellants had an alternative effective remedy available  tothem in the form of appeals against the impugned orders	 andin  fact  they	had filed such appeals	and  had  also	madeapplications  under  s.	 27 of the  Act.   Mr.	Kripal	alsocontended that the High Court would have no jurisdiction  toissue a writ of prohibition against the tax authorities.  Wedo  not propose to consider these objections because, as  wehave already indicated, we are satisfied that the view takenby  the High Court on the points raised before it is  right.These  objections may have to be considered in future  on  asuitable occasion.The  result is the appeals fail and must be  dismissed	withcosts.Appeals dismissed.204