PETITIONER:M/s.  UNIVERSAL IMPORTS AGENCYAND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE CHIEF CONTROLLER OF IMPORTSAND EXPORTS AND OTHERS.(AND CDATE OF JUDGMENT:23/08/1960BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)IMAM, SYED JAFFERSARKAR, A.K.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR   41		  1961 SCR  (1) 305 CITATOR INFO : F	    1961 SC1752	 (8,9,10,12,13,16,18,23,24) RF	    1962 SC1621	 (20,54) E	    1963 SC 734	 (4,5,14,15,20,21,24,29,33,39) R	    1965 SC  40	 (17) R	    1967 SC1742	 (10) R	    1985 SC1729	 (16)ACT:French	Establishments-Agreement  to import  goods-De  factotransfer  of administration to India-Confiscation  of  goodsimported--Validity--"  Things done or omitted to  be  done",meaning	 of-French  Establishments'  (Application  of  Laws)Order,	1954, cl. (6)-Sea Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878),  s.167(8).HEADNOTE:In pursuance of an agreement dated October 21, 954,  enteredinto  between the Government of India and the Government  ofFrance	whereby	 there	was  a	de  facto  transfer  of	 theadministration	of Pondicherry and other French	 Settlementsto  the Government of India as and from November 1, 1954,  anotification  dated  October  30, 1954, was  issued  by	 theGovernment  of	India  called  the  French   Establishments'(Application  of  Laws)	 Order, 1954,  by  virtue  of  whichcertain	 enactments specified in column (3) of the  Schedulewhich included the Sea Customs Act,3061878,  the Imports & Exports Trade (Control) Act, 1947,	 andthe Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947, were extended  toPondicherry.   Paragraph  6 of the Order  provided:  "Unlessotherwise specifically provided in the Schedule, all laws inforce  in  French  Establishments  immediately	before	 thecommencement  of the Order, which correspond  to  enactmentsspecified in the Schedule, shall cease to have effect,	saveas  respect  things done or omitted to be done	before	suchcommencementShortly	 prior	to  the transfer of  the  administration  ofPondicherry  to	 India,	 the petitioners  had  entered	intocertain	 agreements  with foreign suppliers for	 the  importinto  Pondicherry of diverse goods.  Pondicherry was,  priorto   the  transfer  to	India,	a  free	 port  without	 anyrestrictions  on  imports, except on a few  items,  and	 theimporters  could  acquire  foreign exchange  either  at	 theofficial rate in respect of some transactions or at the openmarket	in respect of others.  The petitioners had with	 theconsent of the French authorities obtained through the banksforeign	 exchange  from	 the open market  to  finance  theirimports	 and  had, with the foreign  exchange  so  acquired,opened	irrevocable  letters of credit in  favour  of  theirforeign suppliers on account of the price of the goods to besupplied.   On or about November 1, 1954, the goods  coveredby  the	 aforesaid  imports  were  in  different  stages  ofshipment  and arrived at the port of Pondicherry in  Januaryand  February  1955.  The Collector of Customs	treated	 theimports	 of  the goods as unauthorised and  confiscated	 thesame  and gave the petitioners an option to pay in  lieu  ofconfiscation  a penalty, on the ground that the	 petitionershad  not  obtained  a licence for bringing  the	 goods	intoPondicherry and that s. 167(8) of the Sea Customs Act, 1878,was contravened.  The petitioners claimed, inter alia,	thatthe  transactions  entered  into by them  with	the  foreigndealers	 were " things done " within the meaning of para.  6of  the French Establishments' (Application of Laws)  Order,1954, and that therefore the imports by the petitioners werewithin the saving clause of that paragraph.Held, (Per Sinha, C. J., Imam and Subba Rao, JJ.  Sarkar andShah,	JJ.   dissenting):   (1)   that	  on   its    properinterpretation, the expression " things done " in para. 6 ofthe  French  Establishments' (Application  of  Laws)  Order,1954,  was comprehensive enough to take in not	only  thingsdone but also the effects or the legal consequences  flowingtherefrom ;The  Queen  v.	Justices of the West  Riding  of  Yoykshire,(1876) 1 Q.B.D. 220 and Heston and Isleworth Urban  DistrictCouncil v. Gyout, [1897] 2 Ch. 306, relied on.(2)  that the bringing of the goods into India and the rele-vant  contracts	 entered into by the  petitioners  with	 theforeign	 dealers  formed parts of a  same  transaction,	 andtherefore,  the:  imports  were	 the  effect  or  the  legalconsequence  of	 the, " things done ", i.e.,  the  contractsentered into by, the petitioner;				307State  of Travancore-Cochin v. The Bombay Co.  Ltd.,  [1952]S.C.R.	1112  and State of  Travancore-Cochin  V.  ShanmughaVilas Cashew Nut Factoyy, [1954] S.C.R. 53, relied on.(3)  that  para.  6  of the  order  saved  the	transactionsentered	 into  by the petitioners and that,  therefore,	 theCollector of Customs had no right to confiscate their  goodson the ground that they were imported without a licence.Per Sarkar, J.-(1) The mere making of the contracts and	 theopening of the letters of credit without the bringing of thegoods  into  Pondicherry would not amount to an "  import  "and, therefore, the imports by the petitioners would not  bewithin	the saving clause in para. 6 as things	done  beforethe  commencement of the Application of Laws Order.  (2)  Inthe absence of the necessary words to extend the applicationof  French  laws  to the effect of  things  done  or  rightsacquired from the doing of them, the saving clause in  para.6 could not protect the imports made by the petitioners fromthe  operation	of  the Indian laws applied  to	 the  FrenchEstablishments.Per  Shah, J.-(1) Steps preliminary to import, even if	theyare  closely integrated therewith, are not included  in	 theconcept of import, in dealing with the provisions of the SeaCustoms Act and the Imports and Exports Trade (Control) Act.(2)  By the use of the expression things done or omitted  tobe  done  before such commencement in cl. 6  of	 the  FrenchEstablishments'	 (Application of Laws) Order,  1954,  Frenchlaw  applies to acts and omissions before November 1,  1954,and  not to legal consequences of those acts  and  omissionsensuing	 after that date, and hence import of  goods  acrossthe customs frontier in the Pondicherry Port after  November1, 1954, without a licence in that behalf is contrary to theprovisions of the Sea Customs Act and the Import and ExportsTrade (Control) Act.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petitions Nos. 123 to 125 of 1957 and118 of 1959.Petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forenforcement of Fundamental Rights.N.   C.	 Chatterjee and S. C. Mazumdar, for the	 petitioners(In Petns.  Nos. 123 to 125 of 1957).A.   V.	  Viswanatha  Sastri,  R.  Ganapathy  Iyer  and	  G.Gopalakrishnan,	 for the petitioners (In Petn.	No.  118  of1959).H.  J.	Umrigar,  B. R. L. lyengar and T. M.  Sen,  for	 theRespondents (In all the petitions).Harnam	Singh and Sadhu Singh, for Intervener No. 1 (B.	  S.and Co.)40308D.   B.	 Prem and Sadhu Singh, for Intervener No. 2  (FrenchIndia Importing Corporation).1960.  August 23.  The Judgment of B. P. Sinha, C. J.,	Imamand  Subba Rao, JJ., was delivered by Subba Rao, J.  Sarkar,J. and Shah, J., delivered separate Judgments.SUBBA RAO J.-These four petitions are filed under Art. 32 ofthe  Constitution for quashing the orders of  the  AssistantController of Imports and Exports. the Collector of  Customsand  Central Excise, Pondicherry, the Board of Revenue,	 andthe  Government of India, and for an  appropriate  directionrequiring the respondents to refund the amount realised fromthe petitioners.Messrs.	 Universal Imports Agency and the proprietor of	 theagency are the petitioners in the first three petitions	 andMessrs.	  Victory  Traders are the petitioners in  the	lastone.	The  Chief  Controller	of  Imports   and   Exports,Pondicherry,  the Collector of Customs and  Central  Excise,Pondicherry, the Central Board of Revenue and the Governmentof India are the respondents in all the petitions.Messrs.	 French India Importing Corporation and Messrs.	  B.S. & Co. intervened in the Writ Petitions.Pondicherry  was a French Possession in India.	 On  October21,  1954,  the Government of India and	 the  Government  ofFrance	entered	 into an agreement (hereinafter	 called	 theIndo-French  Agreement),  whereunder  there  was  a  defactotransfer of the administration of the French Settlements  tothe  Government of India (hereinafter called the merger)  asand  from  November  1,	 1954.	The  de	 jure  transfer	 waspostponed.Messrs.	 Universal Imports Agency are a proprietary  concernregistered with the Services Des Contribution,	Pondicherry,having its principal place of business at Pondicherry.	 SriMohanlal  B.  Gandhi is the proprietor of the  said  Agency.They are established importers and general merchants dealingin  ball  bearings,  mill  stores,  porcelain  ware,   glassmarbles,  beltings and various other goods.  They  commencedtheir  business at Pondicherry on or about April  14,  1954,under			    309"  patente " No. 70 of 1954 issued by the Controller of	 theContributions	Department  of	the  French  Government	  atPondicherry.   In the middle of August 1954, they  placed  8indents	 with  Messrs.	Shimada Trading	 Co.,  Ltd.,  Osaka,Japan,	for  importing porcelain wares,	 glass	marbles	 andbeltings and the total value thereof amounted to Rs. 57,418-12-0.	About  the  end of August 1954,	 they  opened  threeirrevocable  Letters  of Credit with Messrs.  Banque  De  L'Indo-Chine  in	favour of the said suppliers.	The  bankersobtained  authorization from the Bureau Des Affaires  Econo-mique, Pondicherry, for the requisite foreign exchange	fromthe open market and sold the same to the petitioners for theamount	involved in the Letters of Credit.  The	 petitionersmade full payment for the said foreign exchange and the saidBank  kept the said foreign exchange and credit	 irrevocablyavailable with their Overseas Agent at Japan for the benefitof  the	 suppliers against full set of	shipping  documents.All  the said Letters of Credit were valid for three  monthsand under the agreement the suppliers were to ship the goodswithin	the  said time.	 On or about November 1,  1954,	 thesaid  goods were in different stages of shipment ;  in	somecases  they  were in the course of shipment, and  in  othersawaiting  shipment  in a matter of a few days and  indeed  alarge  part of the goods had already been placed on board  "S.  S. Shillong " and " S. S. Cambodge " and the balance  ofthe  goods  were in the course of being loaded in  "  S.  S.Sunda  ". In January and February, 1955 and  thereafter	 thegoods arrived at the Port of Pondicherry.  The Collector  ofCustoms	 confiscated all the goods on the ground  that	theywere  imported without a licence and gave an option  to	 thepetitioners to pay in lieu of confiscation fine amounting toRs.  30,390/-.	The petitioners took up the matter with	 theGovernment  of	India without any success and  finally	theypaid the said penalty under protest and cleared the goods.On  or about September 1954 the petitioners  placed  severalindents	 with  their overseas  suppliers,  Messrs.   ShimadaTrading Co., Limited, Osaka, Japan, and others and the totalC. I. F. value thereof amounted310to  Rs. 40,470-14-0.  They arranged for the full payment  ofeight  cheques	to the said suppliers of the  value  of	 thegoods  through the Banque De L' Indo-Chine.   Their  bankersduly  obtained	authorization from the	Bureau	Des  AffairsEconomique, Pondicherry, for the requisite foreign  exchangeand sold the same to the petitioners for the amount involvedin  the	 cheques,  and the said foreign	 exchange  was	keptavailable  to the suppliers.  On or about November 1,  1954,the  goods ordered were in different stages of shipment	 andin  some cases the goods were in the course of shipment	 andin  others awaiting shipment in a matter of a few days.	  InJanuary and February, 1955, the goods arrived at the port ofPondicherry.   The Collector of Customs treated the  importsof  the goods as unauthorized and confiscated the  same	 andgave   the  petitioners	 an  option  to	 pay  in   lieu	  ofconfiscation  a	 penalty  amounting  to	 Rs.  20,700/-	 Thepetitioners carried the matter to the Government without anysuccess.  Ultimately the petitioners paid the penalty  underprotest and cleared the goods.The  petitioners again in the middle of August	1954  placedseveral indents with their overseas suppliers for  importinghair  belting,	torches, belt fasteners,  electric  lightingtorch bulbs and primus stoves, and the total C. I. F.  valuewas  Rs.  52,572-12-0.	They opened irrevocable	 Letters  ofCredit and issued cheques against full advance remittance infavour	of  their suppliers through the said  Banque  De  L'Indo-Chine.   Their bankers arranged through the Bureau	 DesAffairs	 Economique, Pondicherry, for the requisite  foreignexchange  from	the  open market and sold the  same  to	 thepetitioners  for the amount involved in the said Letters  ofCredit	and cheques.  The petitioners made full payment	 forthe  said foreign exchange and the said bank kept  the	saidforeign	 exchange  and	the Letters  of	 Credit	 irrevocablyavailable with their overseas agents for the benefit of	 thesuppliers  against  full set of shipping documents  and	 thecheques	 issued by the bank on overseas banks were  sent  tothe  suppliers	as  full  advance  remittance  against	 thecontracts.  In January and February, 1955, the goods arrivedat the311port  of Pondicherry.  The Collector of Customs	 confiscatedthe goods and gave the petitioners an option to pay in	lieuof  confiscation fine amounting to Rs. 24,210.	 Though	 thepetitioners took up the matter with the Government of India,nothing came out of it.	 They paid the penalty under protestand cleared the goods.Messrs.	  Victory Traders, the petitioners in  Petition	 No.118  of 1959, are carrying on business of import and  exportand  general merchandise in Pondicherry from the year  1949.The petitioners were importing into Pondicherry a number  ofarticles from various countries under " patente " No. 126 of1954  granted by La Controleur, Pondicherry.  On August	 20,1954,  they applied to the Chief Bureau	 Economique,  Pondi-cherry,	 requesting  them to grant permits to  import  goodsfrom  foreign  countries.  The said Bureau replied  that  noimport	 licence  was  required	 for  goods  to	 enter	 theterritory.   Thereafter the petitioners placed	orders	withforeign dealers.  In the middle of August, 1954 and early inSeptember, 1954, they placed a number of indents with  theirprincipals  in	foreign countries for importing	 fan  belts,corn  emery,  soda water bottles, glass	 marbles,  etc.,  ofvalue pound 13,870.  The orders were backed by full paymentsin  many  cases and at least half the  payments	 in  others.These  payments	 were made by demand drafts  issued  by	 theBanque De L' Indo-Chine.  In January and February, 1955	 andthereafter the goods arrived at the port of Pondicherry, andthey  were confiscated by the Collector of Customs who	gavethe  petitioners  an option to pay in lieu  of	confiscationfine aggregating to Rs. 91,100.	 After filing appeals to theCentral Board of Revenue and, thereafter, a revision to	 theGovernment of India with no success, the petitioners clearedthe goods after paying the penalty under protest.It  is clear from the foregoing facts that  the	 petitionersentered into, before the merger, firm contracts of sales  byimport with foreign sellers, made available foreign exchangeeither	under Letters of Credit or otherwise, and the  goodswere shipped either before or after the merger, though	theyreached their destination312after  the merger.  The said goods were confiscated  by	 theCollector  of  Customs under  the  following  circumstances.Under  the Indo-French Agreement, the entire  administrationof the French Settlements was vested with the Government  ofIndia  from  November 1, 1954, though de jure  transfer	 hadbeen postponed.	 In pursuance of the Indo-French  Agreement,the  Ministry of External Affairs published  a	NotificationNo.  S. R. O. 3315 dated October 30, 1954, purporting to  beunder s. 4 of the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1947, and calledthe  French  Establishments' (Application  of  Laws)  Order,1954,  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  Order).    Underparagraph  3 of the said Order, the Sea Customs	 Act,  1879,the  Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, the Imports &  ExportsTrade  (Control) Act, 1947, the Foreign Exchange  RegulationAct, 1947 and the Indian Tariff Act, 1934, were extended  toPondicherry.   On November 1, 1954, the Government of  Indiaappointed  a Controller of Imports & Exports for the  FrenchEstablishments,	 and  paragraph 4 of the  same	notificationgave the following information and guidance to the public :"  As regards orders placed outside the	 Establishments	 andfinalised  through  the grant of licence  by  the  competentFrench	 Authorities  in  accordance  with  the	  Laws	 andRegulations  in force prior to 1st November, 1954,  licence-holders are advised to apply to the Controller of Imports  &Exports	 for validation of licences held by them.   No	feeswill  be charged for these applications.   The	applicationsshould	be  accompanied by the original licence	 and  shouldgive particulars about............"  Licence-holders are advised not to arrange for  shipmentsof goods until the licences held by them have been validatedby the Controller of Imports and Exports at Pondicherry."The  petitioners by way of abundant caution applied  to	 theChief  Controller  of  Imports & Exports  for  licences	 forclearance  of  goods,  but they were all  rejected  and	 thepetitioners  were told that their goods would be treated  asunauthorized  imports and they were advised to approach	 theCollector of Customs and Central Excise			    313for  conditions regarding their release.  As  stated  supra,after  the  goods arrived at the port  of  Pondicherry,	 theCollector  of  Customs and Central Excise made	the  variousorders	confiscating  the goods and giving  the	 petitionersoption	to  pay penalties in lieu of confiscation.,  All  ofthem  paid  the penalties, under protest,  and	cleared	 thegoods.	 The appeals filed to the Central Board	 of  Revenuewere dismissed and the revisions filed against the orders ofthe Central Board of Revenue to the Government of India werealso  dismissed.  The petitioners filed the petitions  underArt. 32 of the Constitution questioning the validity ofthe orders of confiscation.The  respondents in their counter-affidavits claim that	 theorders made by them are valid and in accordance with law.Learned counsel for the petitioners raised many	 contentionsin  support  of	 their petitions.  It is  not  necessary  toenumerate them as the petitions can effectively be  disposedof  on	the  basis  of one of  the  contentions.   The	saidcontention may briefly be stated thus: The petitioners	havethe  fundamental right to hold and to carry on their  importtrade  and  that the Notification No. S. R.  O.	 3315  datedOctober	 30,  1954,  on the basis of  which  the  orders  ofconfiscation were issued has a saving clause which  excludesthe  operation	of  the	 said  Notification  in	 respect  oftransactions whereunder the confiscated goods were purchasedand imported.  The said saving clause embodied in  paragraph6 of the Order reads:"  Unless otherwise specifically provided in  the  Schedule,all  laws in force in the French Establishments	 immediatelybefore	the commencement of the Order, which  correspond  toenactments  specified in the Schedule, shall cease  to	haveeffect,	 save as respect things done or omitted to  be	donebefore such commencement ".Relying	 on  this  paragraph,  it  is  contended  that	 thetransactions  entered  into  by	 the  petitioners  with	 theforeign	 dealers were " things done " within the meaning  ofthis  paragraph	 and, therefore, they were  saved  from	 theoperation of this Order.  For the respondents314it is argued that as the confiscated goods were brought intoIndia  after  the  commencement of the	Order,	  the  goodsconfiscated were outside the pale of the saving clause.	 Thequestion raised falls to be decided on a true interpretationof the terms of paragraph 6 of the said Order.In order to apply the said paragraph 6 to the present  case,the  following facts have to be ascertained : (1)  What	 arethe laws specified in the Schedule ? (2) What were the	lawsin   force   in	 the  French   Establishments	before	 thecommencement of the Order corresponding to the enactments sospecified ? (3) What were the " things done " or omitted  tobe done under the said laws?It  is not necessary to enter into any elaborate  survey  ofthe  laws  specified in the Schedule.  Broadly	stated,	 theImports	 & Exports (Trade Control) Act enables	the  CentralGovernment   to	  make	an  order  making   provisions	 forprohibiting, restricting or otherwise controlling the importor  export of goods of any specified description.  It  makesthe  infringement  of  such restrictions an  offence  and  aperson contravening the same is punishable with imprisonmentfor a term which may extend to one year or with fine or withboth.	The  Act  further says that the	 goods	imported  inviolation  of the restrictions shall be deemed to  be  goodsthe import of which has been prohibited or restricted  unders.  19	of the Sea Customs Act.	 In exercise of	 the  powersconferred by s. 3 and s. 4A of the Imports & Exports  (TradeControl)  Act,	the Central Government made an	order  datedDecember 7, 1955.  Under s. 3 of that order, no person shallimport any goods of the description specified in Schedule 1,except	and  in	 accordance  with a  licence  or  a  customsclearance permit granted by the Central Government or by anyauthority specified in Schedule 2 to that order.  There	 arealso  provisions  prescribing the  procedure  for  obtaininglicences,  the	conditions  of the licences  and  for  theircancellation or modification.  It is, therefore, clear	thatunder  the  said Act, no goods can be  imported	 into  Indiawithout a licence obtained in the prescribed manner from theprescribed315authorities.   The Sea Customs Act provides for the levy  ofsea  customs duty, imposes prohibitions and restrictions  onimports and exports in respect of certain goods and  imposespunishment  for infringement of the provisions of  the	Act.Under  s. 167(8) of the said Act, read with s. 3(2)  of	 theImports and Exports Trade (Control) Act, 1947, if any goods,the  importation  or exportation of which is  prohibited  orrestricted,  are  imported  into or exported  out  of  Indiacontrary  to  such restrictions or prohibitions,  the  goodsconcerned  are	liable	to be confiscated  and	the  personsinvolved  are also liable to penalty.  The Foreign  ExchangeRegulation  Act,  1947,	 provides  for	the  regulation	  ofpayments,  dealings in foreign exchange and securities,	 andthe import and export of currency and bullion.	It prohibitsdealings in foreign exchange except by persons authorized todeal  in  the  same and it further  provides  penalties	 forcontravention of any of the provisions of the Act.   Brieflystated, the Indian law as disclosed by the aforesaid Acts isthat  imports into India without a licence  are	 prohibited,the  goods so imported in contravention of the	restrictionsimposed	 are  liable  to be  confiscated  and  that  foreignexchange cannot be obtained otherwise than under the  provi-sions of the Act.  Persons infringing the laws are liable toprosecution  in	 addition  to  confiscation  of	 the   goodsinvolved.What  was the pre-existing law in Pondicherry  correspondingto  the enactments specified in the Schedule?	Neither	 theActs governing the imports nor any authoritative  text-booksdisclosing the relevant law have been placed before us.	 Butfrom  the  affidavits  filed in the case the  state  of	 lawcorresponding to the relevant Acts referred to in para. 3 ofthe Order can easily be ascertained.  Pondicherry had been afree port, there being no restrictions on imports except  ona few items like gold, rock-salt etc.  For effecting paymentfor the imports, the importers of Pondicherry could  acquireforeign exchange either at the official rate or at the	openmarket rate, whichever might be conveniently available, bothmethods being recognised41316by the French Government as valid.  In the counter affidavitfiled  by  the	State the manner of  acquiring	the  foreignexchange for imports has been clearly stated.  'two kinds ofpermits	 for obtaining official exchange by  importers	wereissued by the Chief Commissioner in Pondicherry, which	wereknown  as authorization and attestation respectively.	Theywere  signed  by the Governor-General of the  French  IndianEstablishments	himself	 or by his  Secretary-General.	 TheGovernment  of France used to make an overall  allotment  offoreign exchange to the French territories.  Apart form thatallotment, it made other currency allotments in the light oftrade	agreements  entered  into  by  France	with   othercountries.   Authorizations were issued in respect of  goodsimported  from countries with which France had entered	intotrade  agreements  and	attestations  in  respect  of  goodsimported from France and other French colonies.	 Further, inrespect	 of  other  transactions exchange  was	arranged  byimporters  through banks dealing in foreign  exchange.	 TheDepartment  of Affaires of Economics used to  authorize	 thebanks  in  respect of such  transactions.   Shortly  stated,Pondicherry  was  a free port without  any  restrictions  onimports,  except  on a few items, and  the  importers  couldacquire	 foreign  exchange either at the  official  rate  inrespect	 of  some  transactions or at  the  open  market  inrespect of others.What  were the " things done " by the petitioners under	 thePondicherry  law  ? The petitioners in the course  of  theirimport trade, having obtained authorization for the  foreignexchange through their bankers, entered into firm  contractswith  foreign  dealers	on C. I. F. terms.   In	 some  casesirrevocable Letters of Credit were opened and in others bankdrafts were sent towards the contracts.' Under the terms  ofthe contracts the sellers had to ship the goods from variousforeign ports and the buyers were to have physical  deliveryof  the goods after they had crossed the customs barrier  inIndia.	Pursuant to the terms of the contracts, the  sellersplaced the goods on board the various ships, some before andothers	 after	the  merger,  and  the	goods	arrived	  atPondicherry port			    317after its merger with India.  The prices for the goods	werepaid in full to the foreign sellers and the goods were takendelivery  of by the buyers after examining them on  arrival.Before the merger if the Customs Authorities had imposed anyrestrictions  not  authorized by law, the  affected  partiescould  have enforced the free entry of the goods in a  courtof  law.  On the said facts a short question arises  whetherparagraph  6 of the Order protects the	petitioners.   Whilelearned	 counsel for the petitioners contends that "  thingsdone  "	 take in not only things done but also	their  legalconsequences,  learned counsel for the State contends  that,as the goods were not brought into India before the  merger,it  was not a thing done before the merger  and,  therefore,would  be  governed  by	 the  enactments  specified  in	 theSchedule.   It	is not necessary to consider  in  this	casewhether the concept of import not only takes in the  factualbringing of goods into India, but also the entire process ofimport	commencing  from  the date of  the  application	 forpermission  to	import and ending with the crossing  of	 thecustoms	 barrier  in India.  The words " things	 done  "  inparagraph  6  must,  be reasonably interpreted	and,  if  sointerpreted, they can mean not only things done but also thelegal consequences flowing therefrom.  If the interpretationsuggested  by  the learned counsel for	the  respondents  beaccepted,  the saving clause would become  unnecessary.	  Ifwhat  it  saves is only the executed  contracts,  i.e.,	 thecontracts  whereunder  the  goods  have	 been  imported	 andreceived  by  the  buyer  before  the  merger,	no   furtherprotection  is	necessary  as  ordinarily  no  question	  ofenforcement  of	 the contracts under  the  pre-existing	 lawwould arise.  The phraseology used is not an innovation	 butis  copied from other statutory clauses.  Section 6  of	 theGeneral Clauses Act (X of 1897) says that unless a differentintention  appears,  the repeal of an Act shall	 not  affectanything  duly	done or suffered thereunder.   So  too,	 thePublic	Health	Act  of 1875 (38 & 39  Vict.  c.  55)  whichrepealed  the Public Health Act of 1848 contained a  provisoto  s. 343 to the effect that the repeal " shall not  affectanything duly done or suffered under the enactment318hereby repealed ". This proviso came under judicial scrutinyin The Queen v. Justices of the West Riding of Yorkshire(1).There  notice  was  given  by a local  board  of  health  ofintention to make a rate under the Public Health Act,  1848,and amending Acts.  Before the notice had expired these Actswere  repealed	by  the	 Public	 Health	 Act,  1875,   whichcontained  a  saving  of " anything duly done  "  under	 therepealed  enactments, and gave power to make a similar	rateupon  giving a similar notice.	The board, in  ignorance  ofthe  repeal,  made a rate purporting to be  made  under	 therepealed  Acts.	 It was contended that as the rate was	madeafter the repealing Act, the notice given under the repealedAct  was  not valid.  The learned Judges held  that  as	 thenotice was given before the Act, the making of the rate	 wasalso  saved  by the words " anything duly done "  under	 therepealed  enactments.  This case illustrates the point	thatit is not necessary that an impugned thing in itself  shouldhave been done before the Act was repealed, but it would  beenough	if it was integrally connected with and was a  legalconsequence  of a thing done before the said repeal.   Undersimilar	  circumstances	 Lindley,  L.  J.,  in	Heston	 andIsleworth Urban District Council v. Grout (2) confirmed	 thevalidity of the rate made pursuant to a notice issued  priorto the repeal.	Adverting to the saving clause, the  learnedJudge tersely states the principle thus at p. 313: " That tomy  mind  preserves that notice and the effect of it  ".  Onthat principle the Court of Appeal held that the rate  whichwas the effect of the notice was good.It is suggested that the phraseology of the saving clause ofthe English Statutes and of the General Clauses Act of	1897are  of wider import than that of paragraph 6 of  the  Orderand,  therefore,  the  English	decisions  are	not  of	 anyassistance in considering the scope of the saving clause  ofthe Order.  It is further stated that the English  decisionsapply  only  to	 a saving clause of  an	 Act  which  repealsanother	 but preserves the right created by the latter.	  Wedo not see any reason why the same construction cannot be(1) (1876) 1 Q.B.D. 220.(2) [1897] 2 Ch. 306.319placed upon the wording of paragraph 6 of the Order which ispractically similar in terms as those found in the  relevantsaving	clause	of  the English Statute	 and   that  of	 theGeneral Clauses Act.Nor can we find any justification for the second  criticism.In the instant case the legal position is exactly the  same.By  reason  of the Indo-French Agreement the  Government  ofIndia  made  the Order under the  Foreign  Jurisdiction	 Actapplying the Indian laws to Pondicherry.  The effect of thatOrder  was  that  the  French  laws  were  repealed  by	 theapplication of the Indian laws in the same field occupied bythe French laws subject to a saving clause.  The position isanalogous  to  that of a statute repealing  another  with  asaving clause.	If the English decisions apply to the lattersituation,  we	do  not see how they do	 not  apply  to	 theformer.	 In both the cases the pre-existing law continues togovern	the  things  done before  a  particular	 date.	 We,therefore, hold that the words " things done " in  paragraph6  of  the  Order  are comprehensive enough  to	 take  in  atransaction  effected before the merger, though some of	 itslegal  effects	and consequences projected  into  the  post-merger period.Now what was the inter-relation between the said things done" and the act of import or bringing of the goods into  India? The effect of the contracts under the pre-existing law wasthat  the terms thereof could have been implemented  withoutany customs bar placed against the import.  This Court	had,in  the	 context of Art. 286(1)(b) of the  Constitution,  toconsider  the  connotation of the words " in the  course  ofexport	or  import " in State of  Travancore-Cochin  v.	 TheBombay Co Ltd. (1).  Patanjali Sastri, C. J., described	 thenature of export sale thus at p. 1118:"Such	sales	must  of  necessity  be	  put	through	  bytransporting  the goods by rail or ship or both out  of	 theterritory  of  India,  that  is to  say,  by  employing	 themachinery  of  export.	 A sale by export  thus	 involves  aseries	 of  integrated	 activities  commencing	  from	 theagreement  of sale with a foreign buyer and ending with	 thedelivery of the goods to a common carrier for(1)  [1952] S.C.R. 1112.320transport  out of the country by land or sea.  Such  a	salecannot	be  dissociated	 from the export  without  which  itcannot	be  effectuated, and the sale and  resultant  exportform parts of a single transaction."The  same principle has been restated by the  learned  ChiefJustice	 in State of Travancore.  Cochin v. Shanmugha  VilasCashew Nut Factory (1).	 The learned Chief Justice stated atp. 63 thus:"  The	phrase	" integrated activities " was  used  in	 theprevious  decision  to denote that a sale, that is,  a	salewhich  occasions the export, cannot be dissociated from	 theexport	without which it cannot be effectuated and the	saleand resultant export form parts of a single transaction".Applying  the  said principles to an import sale it  may  bestated	that  a	 purchase by import  involves  a  series  ofintegrated  activities	commencing  from  the  contract	  ofpurchase with a foreign firm and ending with the bringing ofthe  goods into the importing country and that the  purchaseand  resultant import form parts of a same transaction.	  Ifso, in the present case the bringing of the goods into Indiaand  the relevant contracts entered into by the	 petitionerswith  the foreign dealers form parts of a same	transaction.The  imports,  therefore,  were	 the  effect  or  the  legalconsequence  of	 the " things done ",  i.e.,  the  contractsentered into by the petitioners with the foreign dealers.This conclusion is also reinforced by the terms of the Indo-French	Agreement.  It is common case that the terms of	 thesaid  Agreement cannot be enforced in a municipal  court  inIndia.	 We  are only referring to it as the  terms  thereofthrow  some light on the proper understanding of the  savingclause.	 By Art. 17 of the Agreement, in so far as  materialfor   our   purpose,   all   orders   placed   outside	 theEstablishments and finalised through the grant of a  licenceby  competent  authorities  in	accordance  with  laws	 andregulations  in	 force	prior to the date of  the  de  factotransfer were to be fulfilled by the Government of India andthe  necessary	foreign exchange granted if the	 goods	wereimported(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 53.			    321within	the  period  of validity of  the  relevant  licencessubject to payment of customs duty and other taxes  normallyleviable  at Indian ports.  That is, orders  placed  outsidethe  Establishments  and finalised through the	grant  of  alicence were to be honoured by the Government of India.	 Theword  "	 licence " in this Article may be  construed  ratherwidely	to take in a permit or an authorization ;  otherwiseit would lead to s the anomaly that when a licence, strictlyso  called,  is	 required for a	 transaction  and  thereforeobtained,  the	transaction  is protected  by  the  Article,whereas	 the  transaction which requires only  a  permit  isexcluded therefrom.  It may be recalled that the petitionersobtained  authorizations  of  the  Economics  Department  inrespect	 of  their  orders.   This  Article  indicates	 theintention  of the two Governments that the orders so  placedoutside the Establishments should be honoured.	If paragraph6  of the Order is construed in the manner suggested by	 theState,	we would be imputing to the framers of the  Order  aconscious  breach of the terms of the Agreement between	 thetwo countries, for even the orders covered by Art. 17 of theAgreement would be excluded from the operation of the savingclause.We  would,  therefore, hold that paragraph 6  of  the  Ordersaves  the transactions entered into by the petitioners	 andthat the respondents had no right to confiscate their  goodson  the ground that they were imported without licence.	  Inthis view, no other question arises for consideration.In the result, the orders of the respondents 2, 3 and 4	 arequashed	 and they are directed to refund to the	 petitionersthe amounts illegally collected from them.  The	 petitionersin all the petitions will have their costs.SARKAR J.-I think that these petitions should fail.Sometime in the latter half of 1954, the petitioners had  inPondicherry,  then a French establishment in India,  enteredinto  certain  agreements  with foreign	 suppliers  for	 theimport	into Pondicherry of diverse goods.  It is said	thatat that time licences were not322required  for such imports from the French authorities.	  Itappears	 however  that these authorities granted  a  certainamount	of foreign exchange for the imports.  The  importerswho  failed to secure an allotment of foreign exchange	fromthe  French  authorities  often obtained it  from  the	openmarket	through	 banks.	  The  French  authorities   howeverprohibited the banks in Pondicherry with effect from July 1,1954,  from  acquiring	without	 their	permission,  foreignexchange  in  the  open market for  their  constituents	 forfinancing imports.  The petitioners had with the consent  ofthe  French authorities obtained through the  banks  foreignexchange  from the open market to finance their imports	 andhad   with   the  foreign  exchange  so	  acquired,   openedirrevocable  letters  of credit in favour of  their  foreignsuppliers  on  account	of  the price of  the  goods  to  besupplied.   They did this shortly prior to the	transfer  ofadministration	  of	Pondicherry   and    other    Frenchestablishments	in  India  on November	1,  1954,  to  Indiapursuant  to an agreement made on October 21, 1954,  betweenthe  Governments of France and India.  The goods covered  bythe   aforesaid	  imports  were	 shipped  and	arrived	  inPondicherry   port   after  November  1,  1954,	  and	wereconfiscated by the Government of India who had by that	timetaken over the administration of Pondicherry.  The orders ofconfiscation  gave an option to the petitioners to obtain  arelease	 of the goods by payment of a fine which option	 wasavailed of by them.These  petitions  have	been  filed under  Art.	 32  of	 theConstitution  challenging the validity of  the	confiscationand  claiming a refund of the fine paid on the	ground	thatthe   confiscation   was  an  illegal	violation   of	 thepetitioners' rights under the Constitution to hold  propertyand to carry on business.The orders of confiscation had been made under s. 167(8)  ofthe  Sea  Customs Act, 1878.  That  section  authorised	 theconfiscation  of goods imported in contravention  of  ordersprohibiting  imports  made  under  s.19	 of  the  same	Act.Section	 3 of the Imports and Exports (Control)	 Act,  1947,also authorised the Central Government to prohibit by ordersmade by it,323imports	 of goods of any specified description and  providedthat  the goods to which the orders applied would be  deemedto be goods of which the import had been prohibited under s.19  of	the Sea Customs Act and that the provisions  of	 thelatter Act would have effect accordingly.  Section 4 of	 theImports	 and Exports (Control) Act provided that all  ordersmade under r. 84 of the Defence of India Rules and in  forceimmediately  before  the commencement of the Act,  would  bedeemed	to have been made under the Act There was  an  ordermade  by the Government of India under r. 84 of the  Defenceof India Rules by Notification of the Department of CommerceNo.  23 I.T.C. 43 dated July 1, 1943, which  prohibited	 theimport of the goods which the petitioners had imported.The  orders of confiscation would be unexceptionable if	 thestatutes  and  Order mentioned in  the	preceding  paragraphapplied to these imports.  That they applied to	 Pondicherryas  from November 1, 1954, would seem to be plain  from	 theOrder passed by the Government of India on October 30, 1954,under  the  Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1947, to	take  effectfrom  the  date of the transfer of  administration,  namely,November   1,	1954,  called  the   French   Establishments(Application  of Laws) Order and being Ministry of  ExternalAffairs	 Notification No. S.R.O. 3315.	This Order had	beenpassed in view of the Indo-French agreement and the transferof  administration  provided thereby.  Its validity  is	 notchallenged.   Paragraph	 3 of the Order	 provided  that	 theenactments  mentioned in the Schedule to it and	 all  Ordersmade  under  those enactments and in force  on	November  1,1954,  would apply to the French Establishments	 subject  tothe  subsequent	 provisions of the  Order.   The  enactmentsmentioned  in the Schedule included the Sea Customs Act	 andthe Imports and Exports (Control) Act.	It is not in disputethat  the Order under the Defence of India  Rules  mentionedearlier was in force on this date.The Application of Laws Order therefore made the42324Sea  Customs Act, the Imports and Exports (Control) Act	 andthe  Order made under the Defence of India Rules  applicableto  Pondicherry as from November 1, 1954.   The	 petitionershave  however  contended-for reasons which  I  will  examinepresently-that	the  Order made under the Defence  of  IndiaRules  had not been applied to the French Establishments  bythe  Application of Laws Order, but they have  not  disputedthat  the  Sea	Customs	 Act and  the  Imports	and  Exports(Control) Act were applied to Pondicherry.  The	 petitionersrested	their case mainly on the saving clause contained  inparagraph 6 of the Application of Laws Order which so far asmaterial, was in these terms:    "  All  laws  in  force  in	 the  French  Establishmentsimmediately  before  the commencement of this  Order,  whichcorrespond to the enactments in the Schedule, shall cease tohave  effect  save as respect things done or omitted  to  bedone before such commencement ".The  petitioners have raised three points, two of which	 canbe  disposed  of at once.  It is said that  the	 Order	madeunder  the  Defence  of India Rules did not,  apply  to	 theFrench	Establishments	for  only  Orders  made	 under	 theenactments mentioned in the Schedule were applied to them byparagraph  3  of  the Application of  Laws  Order,  and	 theDefence of India Act and Rules were not enactments mentionedin  the Schedule.  It is true that the Defence of India	 Actand Rules are not mentioned in the Schedule.  But as alreadystated, under s. 4 of the Imports and Exports (Control) Act,Orders made under r. 84 of the Defence of India Rules are tobe deemed to have been made under that Act.  I am unable  toaccept	the contention that an Order which has to be  deemedto  be made under the Imports and Exports (Control)  Act  isnot  an	 Order	made  under the	 Act  for  the	purposes  ofparagraph  3 of the Application of Laws Order.	It seems  tome that when an Order is required to be deemed to have	beenmade  under  an enactments it is as good as  an	 Order	madeunder  the  enactment.	 If  it were  not  so,	the  deemingprovision would lose much of325its  value.   That being so, para. 3 would  make  the  Orderapplicable to Pondicherry.Then  it  is  said that the imports  were  made	 before	 thecommencement  of the Application of Laws Order	because	 thecontracts  in  respect of them had been	 concluded  and	 theletters	 of credit opened before then though the  goods	 hadnot been taken across the customs barrier at Pondicherry  bythat  time.   Therefore,  it is said,  the  imports  by	 thepetitioners would be within the saving clause in paragraph 6as things done before the commencement of the Application ofLaws  Order, to which the Sea Customs Act, the	Imports	 andExports	 (Control) Act and the Order made under the  Defenceof  India Rules would riot apply.  This argument also  seemsto me to be ill-founded.These Acts and the Order were applied to Pondicherry as fromNovember  1,  1954.   The effect of  that  was	to  prohibitimports	 thereafter  and  to render the	 goods	imported  incontravention  of that prohibition liable  to  confiscation.What  is  an  import-and this  is  what	 was  prohibited-hastherefore  to be decided by reference to these Acts and	 theOrder.	 They defined import as bringing goods	into  India,which	in  the	 present  case	would  include	the   FrenchEstablishments	by virtue of paragraph 4 of the	 Applicationof Laws Order.	Therefore goods brought across the  customs'barrier	 into  Pondicherry  would  be  goods  imported	intoPondicherry.  To the goods so brought into Pondicherry afterNovember  1,  1954, the Acts and the Order  made  under	 theDefence	 of India Rules must apply irrespective	 of  whetherthe goods were brought under contracts concluded and lettersof  credit opened, before that date.  It is not in  my	viewpermissible  to ascertain the meaning of the  word  'import'for the purpose of this case by reference to other  statutesor  notions and to contend that there has been an import  bythe making of the contract and the opening of the letter  ofcredit without the bringing of the goods into Pondicherry asthe learned counsel for the petitioners sought to do.The  main argument on behalf of the petitioners is  however,that the words save as respects things done326or omitted to be done' in paragraph 6 of the Application  ofLaws  Order  saved  not only the things done  prior  to	 thecommencement  of  the  Order, that is, the  placing  of	 theindents	 and the opening of the letters of credit  but	alsothe effect thereof and the rights accrued therefrom.  It  issaid  that  the	 indents had been  legally  placed  and	 theletters	 of  credit  legally opened  with  foreign  exchangeacquired  with	the  express  per.  mission  of	 the  FrenchAdministration	which foreign exchange could not  have	beenacquired  without such provision.  It is contended that	 thesaving	clause would make the French laws applicable to	 theimports	 which were the effect of these things	done  beforeNovember 1, 1954, and also protect the rights acquired	fromthe  things so done, from the operation of the Indian  laws.So  it is said that the Confiscations Under the Indian	lawswere wholly illegal.Now  it has to be noted that the saving clause does not	 saythat  the  French laws would apply to the effect  of  thingsearlier done or protect rights accrued therefrom.  I see  nowarrant in the absence of the necessary words to extend	 theapplication of the French laws to the effect of things	doneor rights acquired from the doing of them.  It was said thatotherwise  the saving clause would be idle.  I am unable  toagree.	 If any question as to anything earlier	 done  aroseafter  the  transfer, that question would under	 the  savingclause	have  to  be decided by the  French  laws.   In	 theabsence	 of  the saving clause it would have  been  open  toargument what the effect of the transfer was with regard  tothings	previously done.  I may also point out that S. 6  ofthe General Clauses Act provides that when one enactment  isrepealed  by  another, then, in the absence of	a  differentintention, the repeal shall not affect anything duly done orsuffered under the repealed enactment nor any right  accruedthereunder.   It  strikes me that if the saving of  a  thingdone  under  the repealed enactMent also  necessarily  savedwhat is called the effect of it or rights acquired from	 it,it  would not have been necessary to expressly provide	alsofor  the  saving of the rights acquired under  the  repealedenactment.			    327Therefore,  it	seems to me that the saving of	things	donedoes  not  automatically save the effect of them  or  rightsacquired therefrom.The argument that the saving clause operated to protect	 theimports was based on two English cases, namely, The Queen v.Justices of the West Riding of Yorkshire (1) and Heston	 andIsleworth Urban District Council v. Grout (2).	These  casesconsidered  the terms of statutes analogous to s. 6  of	 ourGeneral	 Clauses  Act,	providing  that	 a  repeal  of	 oneenactment by another shall not affect anything duly done  orsuffered under the repealed enactment or any right  acquiredthereunder.   These  provisions	 were  therefore  materiallydifferent  from	 the saving clause now before  us,  as	theyexpressly  saved rights acquired under a  repealed  statute.The first mentioned case held that as the two statutes	weresubstantially  for the same purpose, namely, making a  rate,the  notice  to make a rate tinder the repealed	 Act  shouldhave effect after the repeal in view of the saving clause asit  could  have been given under the repealing Act  for	 thesame purpose.  It would be difficult to apply the  principleof  this case where two statutes have not the  same  purposeApart  from the fact that we have here no two statutes,	 theIndian enactments with which we are concerned, would seem tohave made a complete departure from the position existing onthe  same subject during the French Administration. lit	 theother case it was held that when a thing duly done tinder  arepealed  enactment  was  saved by a saving  clause  in	 therepealing  Act,	 the effect of it was also saved.   But	 theeffect	of  the	 thing done would be saved  by	the  expressprovision  contained in the saving clause, namely, that	 therepeal	shall  not  affect  any	 right	acquired  under	 therepealed  enactment and the judgment in this case  was	alsobased  on this express provision to remove any	doubts	thatmight  arise as to the other reasoning employed.  The  thingdone  in  this case was the giving of a notice	by  a  localauthority  to  certain house owners to sewer and make  up  aprivate	 street.  The effect saved was the recovery  by	 thelocal  authority  from	the owners of the  expenses  of	 thesewering(1) (1876) 1 Q.B.D. 220.(2) [1897] 2 Ch. 306.328and  making  of	 the street which it had  to  incur  on	 theowner's failure to carry out the terms of the notice.  Thesethings naturally took time and in the meantime the Act underwhich the notice was given had ceased to be applicable.	 Theobservation  made in this case cannot be applied to  a	caselike the present.Then  again  it	 seems	to me  that  there  is	considerabledifference  between  the terms of the  saving  clause,	con-sidered	 in  the English cases and the	saving	clause	withwhich  we are concerned.  The saving clause in	the  Englishcases as also s. 6 of our General Clauses Act, applies wherea  subsequent statute repeals a previous statute  passed  bythe  legislature  of  the same country.	  That	is  not	 theposition here.	We have here laws of the Indian	 legislaturereplacing  French  laws.   Indeed it is	 at  least  arguablewhether	 without  more, the French laws would have  been  offorce after the transfer; it would seem that this difficultywas realised and so it was expressly provided by paragraph 5of   another   Order  called   the   French   Establishments(Administration) Order, made by Notification No. 3314  datedOctober 30, 1954, issued by the External Affairs Ministry ofthe  Government	 of  India, that all laws in  force  in	 theFrench	Establishments	and not repealed by para. 6  of	 theApplication  of	 Laws Order, would continue to be  in  forceuntil repealed.Further, the saving clauses considered in the English  casespreserved  unaffected by the repeal, only things done  underthe  repealed enactment and the rights acquired	 thereunder.The saving clause that we are considering saves things	donebefore	the  commencement of the Application of	 Laws  Orderwhether the thing was done under any law or not; it does notpurport	 to  preserve  a  right	 acquired  under  a  statuterepealed.   In Hamilton Gell v. White (1), it  was  observedthat  s. 38 of the English Interpretation Act,	1889,  whichcorresponds  to s. 6 of our General Clauses Act, "  was	 notintended  to preserve the abstract rights conferred  by	 therepealed  Act.........	It only applies to  specific  rightsgiven to an individual upon the happening of one or other ofthe events specified in the(1)  [1922] 2 K.B. 422. 431.			    329statute."  Likewise in Abbott v. Minister for Lands  (1)  itwas  observed about a saving clause which  protected  rightsaccrued	 under repealed enactments, that, " the	 more  right(assuming  it  to  be properly so called)  existing  in	 themembers	 of  the  community or any class  of  them  to	takeadvantage  of  an  enactment, without any  act	done  by  anindividual  towards  availing himself of the  right,  cannotproperly be deemed a " right accrued " within the meaning ofthe enactment".	 The principle of the English cases on whichthe  petitioners  relied would not apply except	 to  protectrights	acquired  under	 repealed statutes.   In  the  casesbefore	us  the	 petitioners could not	say  that  they	 hadacquired  any  right tinder any French law,  to	 import	 thegoods.	There was admittedly no law which gave the  petitio-ners  any right to import any goods.  The position was	onlythat there was an absence of laws prohibiting import.	Thatclearly did not give the petitioners any right and certainlynot  a right under a statute which was repealed.   All	thatthe   French  authorities  had	done  was  to	permit	 thepetitioners  to acquire foreign exchange in the open  marketfor financing their imports.  It would be impossible to	 saythat  thereby the petitioners acquired any right  under	 anyFrench law to import any goods.Lastly,	 the  principle	 of the two  English  cases  appliesadmittedly only where there is no intention to the contrary.Now  it	 seems	to me that here there is  indication  of  anintention  to  the contrary.  Clause 17	 of  tile  agreementbetween	 India	and France provided that  imports  finalisedthrough the grant of licence prior to the transfer would  befulfilled  but	the goods would be liable  to  customs	dutynormally  leviable in Indian ports.  Clearly, therefore,  itwas not intended that after the transfer, Pondicherry  wouldremain	a  free port in respect of imports made	 even  underagreements concluded prior to the transfer under a  licence.On such imports duty had to be paid after the transfer.	 Theright  to  import freely was not therefore  intended  to  bepreserved.  If so there could have been no intention, in anyevent, to protect a right to import freely(1)  [1895] A.C. 425. 431.330under  an agreement made prior to the transfer, where  therewas  no	 licence granted for the  import.   Admittedly,	 thepetitioners had not obtained any such licence.For  all  these	 reasons it seems to  me  that	the  Englishdecisions  relied  on are of no assistance  in	the  presentcase.  I am unable to read the saving clause in this case asif it is the same as s. 6 of our General Clauses Act or	 thecorresponding  clause  in the  English	Interpretation	Act,1889,  and  to obtain guidance from the decisions  based  onthese  statutes.   I have therefore come to  the  conclusionthat the saving clause in paragraph 6 of the Application  ofLaws  Order  does  not	protect	 the  imports  made  by	 thepetitioners,  from the operation of the Indian laws  appliedto the French Establishments.I would dismiss these petitions.SHAH J.-Petition No. 123 of 1957: Prior to November 1, 1954,Pondicherry  was one of the French Establishments  in  Indiaadministered by the Government of France.  Under the  Frenchadministration, except specified categories like gold, rock-salt  and  certain medicinal preparations,  all	 commoditiescould  be  imported  into the  Pondicherry  Port  without  alicence.  The French Administration exercised control on im-port  of commodities into Pondicherry indirectly  by  makingallotment of the requisite foreign exchange.  The Governmentof France made an overall allotment of foreign exchange	 forthe French Establishments in India, and persons desiring  toimport	 goods	in  Pondicherry	 and  other  French   Indiansettlements  were,  on applications addressed to  the  ChiefCommissioner,  French Settlements, granted foreign  exchangefacility  for  financing  imports, out	of  that  allotment.Besides the allotment of foreign exchange for financing	 im-ports into the French Establishments in India, certain othercurrency allotments were made by the Government of France inthe light of Trade Agreements between the French  Governmentand other countries.  The Chief Commissioner of	 Pondicherryissued	permits for the import of commodities  specified  inthe Trade			    331Agreements   upto   the	 current  ceilings  fixed   in	 theAgreements.   Two  kinds of permits for	 obtaining  officialexchange by importers were issued by the Chief	Commissionerwhich were known as " Authorisation " and " Attestation ". "Authorisation  "  was  issued  for  import  of	goods	fromcountries  with	 which	France had Trade  Agreements  and  "Attestation  "	for  import of goods from  France  and	fromcountries  with which the Government of France had not	madeTrade  Agreements.   By	 issuing "  Authorisation  "  and  "Attestation  ", the Government undertook to provide  foreignexchange  for financing the imports made  pursuant  thereto.Since  April 1, 1954, the Chief Commissioner of	 Pondicherryallowed intending importers to purchase foreign exchange  inthe  open market for financing imports of merchandise.	 TheDepartment of Affairs, Economics, endorsed " authorise "  onthe  application  submitted  by	 the  importers'  banker  inrespect	 of  such transactions, but the Government  did	 notundertake thereby to provide foreign exchange.	As  officialexchange for imports was freely released, only a few importswere  financed	before July 1954 with the  aid	of  exchangepurchased in the open market.Negotiations were proceeding between the Government of Indiaand  the  Government of France for transfer  of	 the  FrenchEstablishments	in India to the Union of India, and when  itcame  to be known that the transfer was imminent, there	 wasfeverish   activity   to  import  goods	 into	the   FrenchSettlements  with the aid of foreign exchange  purchased  inthe open market, and in the months of August, September	 andOctober	 orders	 were  placed  by  importers  with   foreignsuppliers  for purchase of commodities of the value  of	 Rs.280  lakhs to be financed by foreign exchange procured	fromthe  open  market.   Traders who  were	not  normally  doingbusiness in Pondicherry and who had no business interest  inFrench Establishments also opened offices in Pondicherry andstarted	 indenting  goods, to be financed with	the  aid  offoreign exchange in the open market.43332  An  agreement	 for  the  de  facto  transfer	of  the	 ad-ministration  of  the French Establishments in	India	 wasexecuted between the Government of India and the  Governmentof  France  on October 21, 1954.  This	    agreement becameeffective  on November 1, 1954.	 In exercise of	 the  powersconferred by s. 4 of the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1947,  onOctober 31, 1954, the Government of India issued two orders-S.  R. O. 3314, the French Establishments (  Administration)Order,	1954, and S. R. O. 3315, the  French  Establishments(Application  of  Laws)	 Order, 1954.  By  S.  R.  O.  3315,certain	 enactments specified in column (3) of the  Schedulewhich  included the Sea Customs Act, 1878, The Reserve	Bankof India Act, 1934, The Imports and Exports Trade  (Control)Act, 1947, The Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 and TheIndian	Tariff	Act,  1934,  were  applied  to	the   FrenchEstablishments	of  Pondicherry, Karaikal, Mahe	 and  Yanam,with  the  modification that references in  the	 enactments,notifications, orders and regulations which were applied  tothe French Establishments, to India or to the States were tobe construed as referring to the French Establishments also.These orders came into force on November 1, 1954.The petitioners who carried on trade in diverse	 commoditiesin Bombay opened a place of business in Pondicherry on April14,  1954,  and placed eight indents with  Messrs.   ShimadaTrading	 Co.,  Ltd., Osaka, Japan, for	importing  porcelainware,  glass  marbles  and  beltings.	On  an	 applicationsubmitted  by  Bankque	D. L' Indo-China on  behalf  of	 thepetitioners, the Bureau Des Affairs Economique, Pondicherry,endorsed  " authorise " for the requisite  foreign  exchangepurchased in the open market.  This exchange was sold to thepetitioners  for  the  amount involved	in  the	 letters  ofcredit.	 Between August 28, 1954, and August 31, 1954, threeirrevocable  letters  of credit of the	aggregate  value  ofpound 12,850 were opened by the petitioners and pursuant  tothese  letters,	 M/s.  Shimada Trading	Co.,  Ltd.,  shippedgoods  to Pondicherry.	On November 30, 1954,  the  shippingdocuments  were	 received by the  petitioners  from  Messrs.Shimada Trading Co., Ltd.			    333  Admittedly the goods were shipped by the foreign suppliersafter the defacto transfer of Pondicherry.  The applicationssubmitted  by  the  petitioners for  the  issue	 of  customspermits sanctioning clearance of the goods were rejected  bythe  Controller of Imports and Exports at  Pondicherry.	  OnJanuary 5, 1955, the Chief Controller of Imports and Exportsissued a public notification that on a consideration of	 therepresentations	 made  by some of the importers	 asking	 forpermission  to	import	goods for  which  necessary  foreignexchange  had  been  obtained in  the  open  market  throughbankers	  in  Pondicherry  and	in  consultation  with	 theauthorities concerned, it was " clarified for information  "that  open market transactions of the nature referred to  inthe  representations  were not covered	by  the	 Indo-FrenchAgreement, and that the import of goods against open  markettransactions  after  November 1, 1954, must  be	 treated  asunauthorised  ; but having regard to the hardship likely  tobe  caused  to genuine importers who had  placed  orders  inpursuance of their normal trading operations, the  Collectorof  Customs,  Pondicherry, was being  authorised  to  accordcertain	 concessions to genuine importers.  By one  of	suchconcessions,  goods  shipped before November 1,	 1954,	werepermitted to be cleared " without penalty " irrespective  oftheir  origin and value, and consignments fully paid for  inforeign	 currency  and shipped after November 1,  1954,	 andordered	 before August 15, 1954, were also permitted  to  becleared it without penalty".The  goods indented by the petitioners were  confiscated  bythe customs authorities exercising powers under s. 167(8) ofthe  Sea Customs Act, on the ground that the same  had	beenimported without a valid licence and in contravention of theDepartment of Commerce and Industries Notification No.	43-1T.C./43 dated July 1, 1943, (as amended) read with sub-s.  2of  s.	3 of the Imports and Exports  Trade  (Control)	Act,1947.	The  petitioners  were	by  orders  passed   betweenFebruary 28 and March 4, 1955, given an option to clear	 thegoods  for " home consumption " on payment of  customs	dutyand fine specified in the order.  These334orders were confirmed in appeal by the Board of Revenue	 andby  the	 Government  of India in  exercise    of  revisionaljurisdiction.	In  the meanwhile the petitioners  paid	 theduty  and the fine imposed by the     customs  authority andcleared the goods.The   Union   Government  having   rejected   the   Revisionapplications, the petitioners submitted this petition  underArt.  32 of the Constitution for a writ or direction in	 thenature	of  certiorari requiring and  commanding  the  ChiefController   of	 Imports  and  Exports,	  Pondicherry,	 theCollector  of Customs and Central Excise,  Pondicherry,	 theCentral Board of Revenue and the Union of India and quashingthe  orders passed by the Customs authorities and the  Unionof  India  and for a mandamus requiring the  respondents  toforbear	 from giving effect to or otherwise acting upon	 theorders	passed by the Customs authorities and the  Union  ofIndia,	and  for  a  further writ  or  order  directing	 therespondents  to	 restore to the petitioners the sum  of	 Rs.30,890 paid as penalty for releasing the goods.Undoubtedly,  the petitioners had before November  1,  1954,placed	indents for importing goods of diverse	descriptionsfrom  foreign  suppliers  and for  that	 purpose,  they	 hadacquired foreign exchange through their bankers in the	openmarket.	 The petitioners had also opened irrevocable lettersof  credit in favour of the Japanese suppliers.	 It  may  beassumed,  even	though there is no clear  evidence  in	thatbehalf, that the petitioners were after opening	 irrevocableletters	 of credit, unable to cancel the  indents.   Section167,  cl.  (8), of the Sea Customs Act, in so far as  it  ismaterial,  provides  that if any goods, the  importation  ofwhich  is for the time being prohibited or restricted by  orunder  Chapter	IV  of	the Act,  are  imported	 into  Indiacontrary  to  such prohibition or  restriction,	 such  goodsshall be liable to confiscation.  By s. 3 of the Imports andExports	 Trade	(Control) Act, XVIII of	 1947,	the  CentralGovernment is authorised by order published in the  officialGazette	 to prohibit, restrict or otherwise control  in	 allcases  or  in specified classes of cases,  the	import,	 thebringing into any Port or place335in India of goods of any specified description.	 By s. 4 allorders	made  under r. 84 of the Defence of India  Rules  orthat rule as continued in force by the Emergency  Provisions(Continuation)	Ordinance  1946, and  in  force	 immediatelybefore	the commencement of the Act, in so far as they	werenot inconsistent with the provisions of that Act,  continuedto  remain in force and were to be deemed to have been	madethereunder.   Under  the rules framed under the	 Defence  ofIndia Rules, the import of goods of the description indentedby the petitioners, was, it is not disputed, prohibited, andthe rules framed under the Defence of India Rules  continuedin force by the operation of s. 4 of the Imports and ExportsTrade (Control) Act, 1947.  The rules and orders made  underr.  84	of the Defence of India Rules were  on	November  1,1954,  operative as if they were made under the Imports	 andExports	 Trade	(Control) Act, 1947, and when that  Act	 wasextended  to the French Establishment of Pondicherry,  theserules and orders became also applicable to that area.  By s.19  of	the Sea Customs Act, the Central Government  may  bynotification prohibit or restrict the bringing by sea, goodsof  any specified description into India across any  customsfrontier  as defined by the Central Government.	 By s.	2(b)of the Imports and Exports Trade (Control) Act, 1947, importis  defined  as	 bringing into India by sea,  land  or	air.Import	of goods therefore means carrying goods	 across	 thecustoms frontier declared by the Government of India.  Thereis no dispute that under s. 19, the Port of Pondicherry	 wasdeclared a customs frontier.  Admittedly, the goods indentedby  the petitioners were brought into India, i.e.,  importedinto  India  after November 1, 1954.  Importation  of  thesegoods  without	a licence in that  behalf  being  prohibitedunder  a  notification under the Imports and  Exports  Trade(Control)  Act, by bringing the goods into  the	 PondicherryPort,  prima  facie  s. 167(8) of the Sea  Customs  Act	 wascontravened.But  the petitioners contend that in view of  the  agreementbetween the Government of India and the Government of Franceand the two orders issued in336exercise  of  the powers conferred by s. 4  of	the  ForeignJurisdiction  Act, 1947, the provisions of the	Sea  CustomsAct  and  the  orders made or deemed to be  made  under	 theImports and Exports Trade (Control) Act, 1947, did not applyto  the goods in question.  By cl. 3 of the agreement  datedOctober	 21, 1954, the Government of India succeeded to	 therights	and  obligations  resulting from such  acts  of	 theFrench Administration in these Establishments as were  bind-ing on the territory.  By para. 5 of Art. 10, acts or  deedsconstitutive of rights established prior to the date of	 thede facto transfer in conformity with French law retained thevalue and validity conferred at that time (by the same law).By  Art. 17, in so far as it is material, all orders  placedoutside	 the establishments and finalised through the  grantof a licence by competent authorities in accordance with thelaws  and regulations in force prior to the date of  the  defacto  transfer	 were to be fulfilled by the  Government  ofIndia  who were to grant the requisite foreign currency,  ifthe goods were imported within the period of validity of therelevant  licence  subject to payment of  customs  duty	 andother  taxes  normally	leviable  at  Indian  Ports.	Thisagreement  is  between	the  Government	 of  India  and	 theGovernment  of	France,	 and the covenants  thereof  do	 notpurport	 to and cannot confer any rights enforceable at	 theinstance  of citizens of Pondicherry or of India.  By s.  3,certain	  obligations	enforceable   against	the   FrenchAdministration	were undertaken by the Government of  India,but  no obligations thereby enforceable were  undertaken  bythe  Indian Government which the petitioners could  enforce.Para.  5 of Art. 10 falls in the chapter headed	 "  JudicialMatters	 "  and	 only declares that  acts  and	deeds  whichconstitute  rights in conformity with the French  Law  shallretain	the same value after merger with the Union of  Indiaand  by	 Art.  17,  the	 obligation  is	 undertaken  by	 theGovernment of India to fulfil the orders placed outside	 theEstablishments and finalised through the grant of a  licenceby competent authorities.  But the petitioners had  obtainedno  license  from any competent authority for  importing  oreven for indenting the goods.			    337It was urged that the orders S. R. O. 3314 and S. R. O. 3315issued	 under	the  Foreign  Jurisdiction  Act	 should	  beconstrued  in  the  light  of  the  agreement  between	 theGovernment of India and the Government of France.  By S.  R.O.  3314, provision is made by the Government of  India	 forthe  administration of the erstwhile French  Establishments.By  cl.	 5 of that notification, all laws in  force  in	 theFrench Establishments or any part thereof immediately beforethe  commencement of the order and not repealed by cl. 6  ofthe French Establishments (Application of Laws) Order, 1954,shall continue to remain in force until repealed or  amendedby a competent authority.  The law, if any, relating to	 theimport	of  goods  into	 India	applicable  in	the   FrenchEstablishments	prior to November 1, 1954,  stood  expresslyrepealed  by cl. 3 of S. R. O. 3315 which provided that	 theenactments specified in column 3 of the Schedule as in forcebefore	the commencement of this order shall be	 applied  toand  shall be in force in the French Establishments  subjectto  (a) any amendments to which the enactments are  for	 thetime  being  generally subject in the territories  to  whichthey  extend ; (b) the modifications, if any,  specified  incolumn 4 of the schedule; and (c) the subsequent  provisionsof  the order.	By column 3 of the schedule to	this  order,the  Sea Customs Act, the Reserve Bank of India Act and	 theImports	 and  Exports  Trade (Control)	Act  were  expresslyapplied	  to  the  French  Establishments,  and	 under	 theprovisions of these Acts and notifications issued thereunderas from November 1, 1954, no person could without a  licensein  that behalf import goods of the nature indented  by	 thepetitioners.   By  cl.	6,  it was  enacted  that  "  unlessotherwise specifically provided in the schedule, all laws inforce  in the French Establishments immediately	 before	 thecommencement   of  this	 order,	 which	correspond  to	 theenactments  specified in the schedule, shall cease  to	haveeffect,	 save as respects things done or omitted to be	donebefore	such  commencement ". The Sea Customs  Act  and	 theImports and Exports Trade (Control) Act were expressly	madeapplicable to the French Establishment of338Pondicherry  and  all corresponding law	 in  that  territoryceased	to  have  effect save as  respects  things  done  oromitted to be done before such commencement.  Clause 6	doesnot authorise the doing of things expressly forbidden by theprovisions of the Acts made applicable by schedule 3 in	 thePondicherry Establishment, and by the use of the expression," things done or omitted to be done " in the clause, to	 therights	 or  legal  consequences  which	 may  but  for	 theapplication  of the enactments specified in schedule 3	haveflown  from the acts done or omitted to be done	 the  Frenchlaw  does  not continue to apply.   The	 clause	 undoubtedlyprotects  French  laws which correspond	 to  the  enactmentsspecified  in  schedule 3 in so far as they  concern  thingsdone or omitted to be done before the commencement of S,  R.O.  3315.   In superseding the French law in  force  on	 theprescribed  date, the cl. 6 emphasises that  the  enactmentsspecified in schedule 3 have no retrospective operation, andas counterpart thereof provides that all transactions  whichhave  been concluded before November 1, 1954, will  continueto  be	govered	 by  the  French  law  notwithstanding	 theenactment of the Acts specified.Since  the  date  of the de facto  transfer  of	 the  FrenchEstablishments	to  the Indian Union, all imports  of  goodsacross	the customs frontier at Pondicherry were subject  tothe  provisions of the Sea Customs Act and the	Imports	 andExports	 Trade	(Control)  Act;	 and  goods  shipped   afterNovember  1, 1954, in pursuance of indents before that	datewere   not  expressly  saved  from  the	 operation  of	 therestrictive provisions of those Acts.  On and from  November1,  1954,  the law if any relating to the  import  of  goodsoperative  in  the French territory was superseded  and	 thegoods  having been brought into the Pondicherry	 Port  afterNovember 1, 1954, the import was governed by the Sea CustomsAct and the Imports and Exports Trade (Control) Act and	 notby any law of the French territory.  The supersession of theFrench	laws by the application of the statutes set  out  inschedule  III was, on November 1, 1954, complete, " save  asrespects  things  done	or omitted to be done  ".  Does	 theexpression " things done " include consequences which may			    339have ensued in future but for the supervention of the mergeragreement ? Ex facie, by cl. 6, the French law is kept alivein  respect of " things done or omitted to be done  "  i.e.,things	done or omitted to be done in the past; it  has	 notthe effect of keeping alive that law in respect of things tobe  done or omitted to be done in future.  All	transactionscompleted  after November 1, 1954, will, on the plain  wordsof cl. 6, be governed by the statutes made applicable byvirtue of cl. 3 of S. R. O. 3315.Section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, has in terms  noapplication  when the court is called upon to ascertain	 theeffect	of supersession of French law by the application  ofthe specified statutes by cl. 6 of S. R. O. 3315.  In  termss.  6  of the General Clauses Act applies to the  effect  ofrepeal of enactments of the Indian legislature, and there isnothing	 in S. R. O. 3315 which supports the plea  that	 thesection	 applies  as if the French law in  operation  beforemerger	of the French Establishments is to be regarded as  astatute enacted by the Indian legislature.  In that premise,it  is	difficult to appreciate how the principle  of  casesdecided	 by the courts in England on the words of s.  38  ofthe Interpretation Act, 1889 (52 and 53 Viet. ch. 63)  whichare  substantially  the same as those used in s.  6  of	 theGeneral	 Clauses  Act,	1897, can  lend	 any  assistance  ininterpreting the meaning of the expression " things done  oromitted to be done " in cl. 6 of S. R. O. 3315.	 By enactingS. R. O. 3315, the French law after its supersession has notbeen  expressly	 kept  alive  in respect  of  any  right  orprivilege  acquired or accrued under the things	 done  underthat law; and it would be an unwarranted incursion into	 thefield of legislation to attempt to extend the protection  ofthat  law to transactions which have taken place  after	 theprescribed date relying upon the General Clauses Act.Nor  is the interrelation between the agreement of  purchasewith a foreign seller, and the various processes leading  tothe  delivery of goods to a common carrier and the  ultimateimport of goods sufficient to include within the  expression" things done " used in44340cl. 6 of S. R. O. 3315 consequences of the things done whichmay  ensue  in	future.	 Within the expression	  "  in	 thecourse of import of the goods into the territory of India  "used in Art. 286(1) (b) of the Constitution,	a series  ofintegrated  activities	resulting  in the  taking  of  goodsacross the customs frontier may be involved.  But import  asdefined	 in the Imports and Exports Trade (Control)  Act  isbringing a commodity in the territory of India;	 preliminarysteps even if they are closely integrated therewith are	 notincluded in that definition.  If steps preliminary to importare  not included in the concept of import, in dealing	withthe  provisions of the Sea Customs Act and the	Imports	 andExports Trade (Control) Act, it would be difficult to affordprotection of the French laws expressly granted by virtue ofcl.  6 of S. R. O. 3315 to such of the preliminary steps  ashave  taken place before the prescribed date, and to  createan  exemption in favour of imports consequential upon  thosepreliminary steps, which the legislature has declined to do.In  my view, therefore, by the use of the expression  thingsdone or omitted to be done before such commencement " in cl.6 of S. R. O. 3315 French law applies to acts and  omissionsbefore	November 1, 1954, and not to legal  consequences  ofthose acts and omissions ensuing after that date, and  henceimport	 of  goods  across  the	 customs  frontier  in	 thePondicherry  Port after November 1, 1954, without a  licencein  that  behalf is contrary to the provisions	of  the	 SeaCustoms Act and the Imports and Exports Trade (Control) Act.The  provisions of the Sea Customs Act and the	Imports	 andExports Trade (Control) Act whereby restrictions are imposedupon  the import and export of goods are not  by  themselvesunreasonable.	If the petitioners are not entitled  to	 thebenefit	 of cl. 6 of the Indo-French Agreement, there is  noother  ground  on  which they can  successfully	 impugn	 thevalidity of the orders imposing duty and penalty.I  am  therefore of the view that this	petition  should  bedismissed with costs.341For  reasons  set out in the principal	petition,  petitionsNos.  124  and 125 of 1957 and 118 of 1959  should  also  bedismissed with costs.BY  COURT: In view of the majority Judgment,  the  petitionsare allowed.  The petitioners in all the petitions will havetheir costs.			   Petitions allowed.		     __________________