PETITIONER:SARDAR SARUP SINGH & OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF PUNJAB & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:01/04/1959BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR  860		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 499ACT:Fundamental rights, violation of Sikh Gurdwaras-Election  ofGurdwara  Board-Statutory Provision therefor,  when  affectsreligion-Direct	 election  by  entire  Sikh  Community,	  ifessential  "Matters of religion," Meaning of-Sikh  GurdwarasAct, 1925 (Punjab 8 Of 1925), as amended by Punjab Act 1  of1959,  ss. 43, 43A, 148B-Constitution of India, Art.  26(b),(d).HEADNOTE:In  1925  the Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925,	 was  passed,  interalia,	for  the  better  administration  of  certain	SikhGurdwaras,  and after the merger of the erstwhile  State  ofPatiala and the East Punjab States Union, called Pepsu, withthe  State  of	Punjab,	 the Act was  amended  by  the	SikhGurdwaras (Amendment) Act, 1959, in order to extend the	 Actto the area which was formerly within Pepsu.  Under s. 43 ofthe  Act,  before it was amended in 959, a  Board  had	beenconstituted, called the Sikh(1)  (1940) I.L.R. 22 Lah. 22.500Gurdwara  Prabandhak Committee, to act as the  committee  ofmanagement  in respect of some of the principal	 Sikh  Gurd-waras  and  in addition to exercise control,  direction	 andgeneral superintendence over all committees appointed  underthe  provisions	 of the Act ; the Board consisted  of  threecategories  of	members,  namely (1)  elected  members,	 (2)certain designated members, and (3) co-opted members,  whichincluded persons residing in Pepsu and other parts of India.By  the Amending Act of 1959, S- 148B was added to the	mainAct,  which provided: " (1) As from the commencement of	 theAmending  Act,	in  addition to the  members  of  the  Boardconstituted under S. 43	 (a)  every person in  the  extendedterritories who immediately   before the commencement of theAmending Act, is a member of  the  Interim  Gurdwara  Board,Patiala,  constituted  by Punjab Government shall be  deemedto  be a member of the Board, constituted under s. 43 ;	 and(b)  thirty-five Sikhs including six Sikhs belonging to	 theScheduled  Castes residents in the extended territories	 whoshall  be elected by the persons specified in sub-s. (2)  inaccordance  with the rules made in this behalf by the  StateGovernment, shall become the members of the Board.......".The  petitioners  who profess and practice  the	 Sikh  faithfiled	a  petition  under  Art.  32  Of  the	Constitutionchallenging  the constitutional validity of s. 148B  on	 theground	that  the  section violated  the  fundamental  rightgranted	 under	Art.  26(b) of	the  Constitution  to  everyreligious denomination or any section thereof including	 theSikh denomination " to manage its own affairs in matters  ofreligion".   They  contended,  inter  alia,  (1)  that	 theamending  Act  of  1959	 was  passed  with  a  view  that  aparticular  group of Sikhs might not regain the majority  ithad  lost on November 16, 1958, when the annual election  ofthe  Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee was held;  (2)	thatthe  members  of the Interim Board, Patiala,  who  under  s.148B(1)(a) are deemed to be members of the Board constitutedunder  s.  43,	were appointed	under  a  Punjab  Governmentnotification,  and being merely nominees of  Government	 didnot represent the Sikh Community; that under s. 148B thirty-five  Sikhs from the extended area were introduced into	 theBoard by means of an indirect method, that is, by a  limitedSikh  electorate,  the members of which electorate  were  intheir turn elected by Sikhs as well as non-Sikhs ; that	 theright  guaranteed under Art. 26(b) was given to all  membersof the Sikh denomination to manage Sikh Gurdwaras, that	 theright  must be exercised by all Sikhs who alone	 must  electtheir  representatives	and  that the  introduction  of	 newmembers	  into	the  Board  in	respect	 of   the   extendedterritories in the manner envisaged by S. 148B, violated  byitself	the right of the Sikhs in a matter of  religion	 andconstituted an infringement of their fundamental right underArt. 26(b).Held : (1) that in considering the question as to whether a501provision of law is constitutionally valid, the court cannotbe called upon to embark on an enquiry into public policy orinvestigate  into questions of political wisdom or  even  topronounce upon motives of the legislature in enacting a	 lawwhich it is otherwise competent to make ;(2)  that a direct election by the entire Sikh Community  inthe  management	 of  Gurdwaras	is  not	 part  of  the	Sikhreligion; and,(3)  that  the	method of representation  for  the  extendedareas  under s. 148B of the Act was an arrangement  dictatedmerely by considerations of convenience and expediency,	 anddid not involve any principle of religion.Accordingly,  s. I48B of the Act (-lid not affect "  mattersof  religion  "	 within the meaning of	Art.  26(b)  of	 theConstitution   and  consequently  did  not  contravene	 thefundamental right under that Article.The Commissioner, Hindu, Religious Endowments, Madyas v	 SriLakshmindra  Thirtha  Swamiar  of Sri  Shirur  Mutt,  [1954]S.C.R.	1005  and Sri Venkataramana Devaru v. The  State  ofMysore; [1958] S.C.R. 895, referred to.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 13 of 1959.Petition  under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forenforcement of Fundamental Rights.Harnam Singh and Sadhu Singh, for the petitioners.S.   M.	 Sikri,	 Advocate-Gencral for the State	 of  Punjab,Gopal Singh and D. Gupta, for respondent No. 1.1959, April 1. The judgment-of the Court was delivered byS.   K.	 DAS,  J.-This is a petition under Art.	 32  of	 theConstitution   in  which  the  petitioners   challenge	 theconstitutional	validity of s. 148-B of the  Sikh  GurdwarasAct,  1925  (Punjab VIII of 1925),  hereinafter	 called	 theprincipal  Act,	 the said section having been added  to	 theprincipal  Act by the Sikh Gurdwaras (Amendment) Act,  1959,hereinafter   called   the  amending  Act  of	1959.	 Thepetitioners  profess  and practice the Sikh faith  and	theyallege	that  they  are interested in  the  maintenance	 andmanagement  of Sikh Gurdwaras, scheduled and notified  underthe  principal Act.  Their main contention is that s.  148-Bviolates  the fundamental right granted under Art. 26(b)  ofthe  Constitution  to every religious  denomination  or	 anysection thereof including the Sikh denomination, " to502manage	its  own  affairs  in matters  of  religion  ".	 Therespondents  to	 the  petition are, firstly,  the  State  ofPunjab	and, secondly,, President and twelve members of	 theInterim Gurdwara Board, Patiala, who under cl. (a) of sub-s.(1)  of s. 148-B shall be deemed to be members of the  Boardconstituted under s. 43 of the principal Act.  That Board isnow  known  by	the name of  the  Sikh	Gurdwara  PrabandhakCommittee.  The application has been contested before us  byrespondent  No. 1 only, namely, the State of Punjab, on	 theground	that  s.  148-B does not, in any  way,	violate	 thefundamental  right  granted  to	 the  petitioners  or  othermembers	 of  the Sikh denomination under Art. 26(b)  of	 theConstitution.	  Therefore,   the   only    question	 forconsideration before us is if S. 148-B of the principal	 Actdoes or does not contravene the fundamental right granted tothe Sikhs under Art. 26(b) of the Constitution.We shall presently set out the provisions of s. 148- B	 andalso  of some other relevant sections of the principal	Act.But before we do that, it is necessary to state a few  factswith regard to the passing of the amending Act of 1959.	  Ithas  been  stated before us that in or about the  year	1919there  was  considerable  unrest amongst the  Sikhs  in	 thePunjab	in respect of the management of their gurdwaras	 andshrines,  and in 1922 an Act called the Sikh  Gurdwaras	 andShrines	 Act was passed; this did not satisfy the Sikhs	 andin  1925  the  principal Act was  passed,  as  its  preamblestates,	 "  for the better administration  of  certain	Sikhgurdwaras  and for enquiries into matters and settlement  ofdisputes  connected  therewith	".  The	 principal  Act	 wasamended	 from time to time.  On November 1, 1956, there	 wasmerger of the erstwhile State of Patiala and the East PunjabStates	Union  (hereafter called Pepsu in  brief)  with	 theState  of Punjab.  Sometime in February 1957 the  Governmentof  the State of Punjab appointed an advisory  committee  toreport as to whether the principal Act should be extended tothe area which was formerly within Pepsu.  In September 1957the  committee recommended in favour of such extension.	  OnApril 8, 1958, a bill called the Sikh503Gurdwaras  (Amendment)	Bill, 1958, was	 introduced  in	 thePunjab	Vidhan Sabha and the Bill was sent to  the  regionalcommittees  constituted by an order of the President  calledthe  Punjab Regional Committees Order, 1957, made under	 el.(1)   of  Art.	371  of	 the  Constitution.   The   regionalcommittees   dealt   with   the	 Bill	and   made   certainrecommendations.  For the purposes of the application beforeus, it is unnecessary to go into details of the	 proceedingsbefore	the regional committees.  Sometime in November	1958there  was  a meeting of the Sikh Gurdwara  Prabandbak	Com-mittee	for  the purpose of the	 annual	 election.   Learnedcounsel	 for  the petitioners has stated before us  that  atthis  meeting  there was a majority by a very  small  margin(three votes only) in favour of a particular group of  Sikhsand  against  another group known as the "  Shiromoni  AkaliDal".	Within	one week, however, a notice  was  given	 forcalling a meeting to consider the provisions of the amendingBill;  this meeting could not, however, be held as an  orderof   stay   was	 obtained  from	 the   Judicial	  Commissionconstituted  under  the principal Act.	In December  1958  aspecial session of the Vidhan Sabha was summoned to considerthe  amending Bill.  It has been stated that originally	 theamending  Bill did not contain provisions like	those  laterembodied in s. 148-B.  The Bill was accordingly sent back tothe  regional  committees  and on  December  27,  1958,	 theregional committees submitted a final report and recommendedthe  addition  of provisions which subsequently	 became	 theprovisions of s. 148-B of the principal Act.  It may be herestated	that even in the regional committees there was	someopposition  to the provisions in question.  On December	 31,1958,  the  Bill  was passed by the  Vidhan  Sabha,  and  onJanuary	 3, 1959, it was passed by the Legislative  Council.On  January 8, 1959, it received the assent of the  Governorand  became Punjab Act No. 1 of 1959, which is the  AmendingAct  of	 1959.	It came into force at once  and	 some  rulesunder  the Act were made a few days after.  On	February  2,1959,  the  present petition was filed and on  February	 14,1959, the election of 35 Sikhs contemplated under el. (b) ofsub-s. (1) of s. 148-B was completed.504It  is necessary at this stage to refer to some of  the	 oldprovisions  of the principal Act as also the new  provisionsadded by the amending Act of 1959.  The Board which is knownas  the	 Sikh  Gurdwara Prabandhak  Committee  acts  as	 thecommittee of management in respect of some of the  principalSikh  gurdwaras;  in  addition,	 it also  has  the  duty  ofensuring  that every committee of management deals with	 theproperty and -income of the gurdwara or gurdwaras managed byit in accordance with the provisions of the Act and for	 thefulfilment of this duty it exercises control, direction	 andgeneral superintendence over all committees appointed  underthe provisions of the principal Act (see s. 125).  The Boardis  constituted under s. 43 of the principal Act.   Previousto the passing of Punjab Act No. 44 of 1953, s. 43 said thatthe Board shall consist of (i) 84 elected members, (ii)	 thebead  ministers of certain well-known Sikh gurdwaras,  (iii)12 members nominated by the Rajpramukh of Pepsu and (iv)  17members	 resident in India of whom not more than four  shallbe residents in Punjab, co-opted by the members of the Boardas  described  in (i), (ii) and (iii) above.   In  1953	 waspassed Punjab Act No. 44 of 1953 and s. 43 of the  principalAct was amended.  The amended section was in these terms:-" S. 43. (1) The Board shall consist of-(i)  one hundred and thirty-two elected members;(ii) the  head ministers of the Darbar Sahib, Amritsar,	 andthe following four Takhts, namely,the Sri Akali Takht Sahib,Amritsar,  the	Sri Takht Kesgarh Sahib, Anandpur,  the	 SriTakht  Patna  Sahib, Patna, and the Sri Takht  Nazur  Sahib,Hyderabad Deccan ; and(iii)twenty-five members resident in India of whom at  leasttwelve	shall be residents of Pepsu, at least nine of  otherparts of India than Punjab and Pepsu and not more than	fourof Punjab, co-opted by the members of the Board as describedin clauses (1) and (ii).(2).............."It would thus appear that after the passing of Punjab505Act  No.  44  of  1953 the Board  consisted  of	 only  threecategories  of	members, namely, (1)  elected  members,	 (2)certain	 designated  members and (3)  25  co-opted  members.Now, we come to s. 148-B which was added by the amending Actof  1959.  That section in so far as it is material for	 ourpurpose is in these terms :-"  S.  148-B. (1) As from the commencement of  the  AmendingAct,  in  addition to the members of the  Board	 constitutedunder section 43 and till the next election of the new Boardunder section 43-A-(a)every person in the extended territories who, immediatelybefore the commencement of the Amending Act, is a member  ofthe  Interim Gurdwara Board, Patiala, constituted by  PunjabGovernment, Home Department, Notification No.  18-Gurdwaras,dated the 10th January, 1958, shall be deemed to be a memberof the Board, constituted under section 43; and(b)thirty-five	Sikhs including six Sikhs belonging  to	 theScheduled  Castes residents in the extended territories,  tobe  divided among different districts thereof in  proportionto  the Sikh population of each district in  the  prescribedmanner, who shall, within forty days of the commencement  ofthe  Amending  Act, be elected by the persons  specified  insubsection  (2)	 in accordance with the rules made  in	thisbehalf by the State Government, shall become the members  ofthe Board from the date specified in subsection (3).(2)  The  thirty-five persons referred to in clause  (b)  ofsub-section (1) shall be elected by-(i)  the  persons  who are deemed to be the members  of	 theBoard under clause (a) of-sub-section (1) ;(ii) the  twelve  members of the Board	being  residents  ofPepsu as are referred to in clause (iii) of sub-section	 (1)of section 43;(iii)	  the sitting Sikh members of Parliament and the twoHouses	of State Legislature returned from any	constituencyor part thereof from the extended territories;(iv) the  Sikh	members	 of  Municipal	Committees  in	 theextended territories;64506(v)the	Presidents or Chairmen of such Singh Sabhas and	 theManagers   or	Secretaries   of   such	  Sikh	 educationalinstitutions   or  Sikh	 religious  organisations   as	 areregistered  on	or  before the 1st December,  1958,  in	 theextended territories; and(vi) the  Sikh Sarpanches and Sikh Nayay Pardhans  of  NagarPanchayats and Panchayati Adalats, respectively:Provided  that the electors under clauses (iii),  (iv),	 (v)and  (vi) are not disqualified under the proviso to  section49 of the Act.(3) ........................(4) ........................(5) ........................"It  is worthy of note here that s. 148-B occurs	 in  chapterXII-A  and  the heading of the chapter is  "  Temporary	 andTransitional  Provisions  " which indicates  clearly  enoughthat the provisions in sections 148-B to 148-F ate temporaryand transitional provisions.  It has been stated at the	 Barthat  in about a year, a fresh election of the Board is	 dueunder s. 43-A, and the temporary and transitional provisionsin chapter XII-A are to be in force only for the interveningperiod.	  Section 43-A which was also added by the  amendingAct of 1959 says -"S.  43-A.  (1) Whenever a new Board within the	 meaning  ofsection 51 is constituted, it shall consist of-(i)  one hundred and forty elected members;(ii) the  Head Ministers of the Darbar Sahib, Amritsar,	 andthe  following four Takhats, namely :-the Sri Takhat Sahib, Amritsar,the  Sri  Takhat Keshgarh Sahib, Anandpur,the Sri Takhat Patna Sahib, Patna, andthe  Sri  Takhat  Hazur Sahib,	Nanded;	 and(iii)  fifteen	members resident in India, of whom not	morethan  five  shall  be residents of Punjab,  coopted  by	 themembers of the Board as described in clauses (i) and (ii).(2)  The  State Government shall, as soon as may be, call  ameeting of the members of the Board described in clauses (i)and (ii) of sub-section (1) for the507purpose	 of co-opting the members described in clause  (iii)of  that  sub-section, and after the members have  been	 co-opted,	the  State Government shall notify the fact  of	 theBoard  having  been  duly constituted and the  date  of	 thepublication  of the notification shall be deemed to  be	 thedate of the constitution of the Board."Thus,  the new or permanent Board which will be	 constitutedunder  s.  43-A will consist of (1) one	 hundred  and  fortyelected	 members,  (2)	five  designated  members,  and	 (3)fifteen co-opted members, and there will be no room for	 anynominated  members therein.  The petitioners have raised  noobjections to the constitution of the Board under s. 43-  A;all their objections are confined to the constitution of theBoard  under  s.  148-B,  even	though	it  is	a  transientprovision for the transitional period only.What  then are these objections, in so far as they  bear  onthe alleged violation of the petitioners' fundamental  rightunder Art. 26 (b) of the Constitution ?Learned	 counsel for the petitioners has first commented  onwhat  he  has characterised as undue haste  in	passing	 theamending Act of 1959.  He has submitted that the Pepsu	areacame  within the State of Punjab in November, 1956, and	 forabout  two years, the Punjab Government evinced	 no  seriousanxiety	 to extend the principal Act to that area; but	fromNovember  16,  1958, when the annual election  of  the	SikhGurdwara Prabandhak Committee was held, up to January, 1959,when   the  amending  Act  of  1959  was   passed,   hurriedproceedings were taken to enact the amending law in questionand so constitute the Board that a particular group of Sikhsmight  not regain the majority it had lost on  November	 16,1958.	In  our	 opinion these submissions (we	do  not	 saywhether	 they  are right or wrong) have no  hearing  on	 thequestion  at  issue  before us.	 The  petitioners  have	 notspecifically  alleged  in  their  petition  that  the  StateGovernment  has acted in any mala fide manner; and  whateverjustification  some people may feel in their  criticisms  ofthe   political	 wisdom	 of  a	particular  legislative	  orexecutive action, this Court cannot be called508upon  to  embark  on  an  enquiry  into	 -public  policy  orinvestigate  into questions of political wisdom or even	 -topronounce upon motives of the legislature in enacting a	 lawwhich it is otherwise competent to make.  We do not say thatin pronouncing on the rights of the parties before it,	thisCourt  must  always  stand aloof on the	 chill	and  distantheights of abstract logic and pay no heed to the great tidesand  currents which move society and men.  If and  when	 theoccasion demands, for example, when there is violation of  afundamental  right guaranteed by the Constitution,  it	willnever  hesitate to act.	 But it is well to remember  that  afundamental  right,  such as freedom of religion, is  of  anenduring  character  and  must stand  beyond  the  sweep  ofchanging  and  deflecting forces of  current  opinion.	 Ourlimited function in this case, therefore, is to examine	 theconstitutionality of s. 148-B, and to that task we must	 nowconfine our attention.The main argument of learned counsel for the petitioners  isthat  Art. 26(b) gives to every religious  denomination,  orany  section thereof, the right " to manage its own  affairsin  matters of religion " and the right is subject  only  topublic order, morality and health.  In this case,  accordingto  him,  the  right is given to all  members  of  the	Sikhdenomination  and not to any particular members thereof,  tomanage	Sikh  gurdwaras	 ;  therefore,	the  right  must  beexercised  by  all Sikhs, and they alone  must	elect  theirrepresentatives to manage Sikh gurdwaras; and to the  extentthat s. 148-B departs from the aforesaid principle, it	con-stitutes  an  infringement of the right	 guaranteed  to	 thepetitioners under Art. 26(b) of the Constitution.We  are unable to accept this argument as correct.   Article26  of	the Constitution, so far as it is relevant  for	 ourpurpose, says-"  Art. 26.  Subject to public order, morality	and  health,every  religious denomination or any section  thereof  shallhave the right(a)...........................(b)  to manage its own affairs in matters of religion509(d)  to administer such property in accordance with law.The  distinction  between cls. (b) and (d)  strikes  one  atonce.	So  far as administration of its  property  is	con-cerned,	 the  right  of a religious denomination  is  to  beexercised  in " accordance with law ", but there is no	suchqualification  in  el.	(b).   In  The	COmmissioner,  HinduReligious  Endowments,	Madras v.  Sri	Lakshmindra  ThirthaSwamiar of Sri Shirur Mutt (1), this distinction was pointedout  by	 this  Court  and  it  was  there  observed:  "	 Theadministration	of its property by a religious	denominationhas  thus been placed OD a different footing from the  rightto manage its own affairs in matter of religion.  The latteris  a fundamental right which no legislature can take  away,whereas	 the  former  can be regulated	by  laws  which	 thelegislature  can validly impose ". Secondly, the  expressionused  in cl. (b) is 'in matters of religion'. In what  sensehas the word 'religion ' been used ?  This was considered intwo  decisions	of  this  Court:  The  Commissioner,   HinduReligious  Endowments,	Madras v.  Sri	Lakshmindra  ThirthaSwamiar	 of Sri Shiru Mutt (1) and Sri Venkataramana  Devaruv. The State of Mysore (2), and it was hold that freedom  ofreligion in our Constitution is not confined to religiousbeliefs	 only, but extends to essential religious  practicesas well	 subject to the restrictions which the	Constitutionhas  laid  down.   In  The  Commissioner,  Hindu   ReligiousEndowments, Madras v. Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar of SriShirur	Mutt (1) it was observed at p. 1026 that under	Art.26(b),	a  religious  denomination  or	Organisation  enjoyscomplete autonomy in the matter of deciding as to what ritesand ceremonies are essential according to the tenets of	 thereligion they hold (we emphasise here the word 'essential').The  same  emphasis was laid in the later  decision  of	 SriVenkataramana  Devaru v. The State of Mysore (2),  where  itwas  said  that matters of religion in	Art.  26(b)  includepractices which are regarded by the community as part of itsreligion.  Two questions, therefore,(1) [1954] S.C.R. 1005,1023, 1026.(2) [1958] S.C.R. 895.510arise in connection with the argument of learned counsel forthe  petitioners: (1) does s. 148-B added to  the  principalAct  by	 the  amending Act of 1959 have	 reference  only  toadministration of property of Sikh gurdwaras and, therefore,must be judged by cl. (d) of Art. 26 or (2) does it affect 'matters	 of religion' within the meaning of cl. (b)  of	 thesaid Article ?The  argument  on  behalf of the  petitioners  is  that	 theprincipal  Act to which s. 148_B has been added relates	 notmerely to administration of properties of Sikh gurdwaras butalso to matters of religion and in so far as s. 148-B bringsin  new	 members into the Board, it affects Sikhs  in  theirreligious affairs.  The argument on behalf of the respondentState is that matters of religion in the sense of  essentialbeliefs	 and practices of the Sikh faith are left  untouchedby  s.	148-B,	and  even other	 relevant  sections  of	 theprincipal Act do not interfere with Sikh religion.  In	thisconnection,  our attention has been drawn to the  provisionsin Ch.	X which deal with the powers and duties of the Boardand to those in Ch.  XI which deal with powers and duties ofCommittees.  Section 125, to which we have already referred,states	that the duty of the Board is to ensure	 that  everyCommittee deals with the property and income of the gurdwaraor gurdwaras it manages in accordance with the provisions ofthe Act and in fulfilment of that duty, the Board has vestedin  it control, direction and general  superintendence	overall  committees appointed under the provisions of  the	Act.Section 129 states-" S. 129.  The Board in any meeting may consider and discussany  matter with which it has power under this Act  to	dealand  any matter directly connected with the  Sikh  religion,but shall not consider or discuss, or pass any resolution ororder upon, any other matter.  "If s. 129 is read subject to s. 125 as the learned Advocate-General	 for the State contends it should be read, then	 thepowers	and  duties of the Board, in substance	and  effect,relate to administration of gurdwara properties and  mattersancillary thereto.  They have511hardly any reference to ' matters of religion '. Section 133states	generally the powers of Committees, and one  of	 thepowers	 is  I	enforcing  the	proper	observance  of	 allceremonies and religious observances in connexion with	suchgurdwara or gurdwaras and of taking all such measures as maybe necessary to ensure the proper management of the gurdwaraor  gurdwaras  and  the	 efficient  administration  of	 theproperty,  income and endowments thereof.'  Learned  counselfor the petitioners has emphasised that part of the  sectionwhich  relates to I proper observance of all ceremonies	 andreligious  observances' and has contended that as the  Boardis  the	 committee  in	respect of  some  of  the  principalgurdwaras, it has a duty to ensure proper observance of	 allessential  religious  ceremonies of the	 Sikh  faith,  whichaccording to him is a I matter of religion'.  Under s.	134,the  -Committee has power inter alia to dismiss	 an  office-holder	or minister, if he fails in the performance of	'anyrituals	 and ceremonies in accordance with the teachings  OfSri  Guru Granth Sahib ' or has ceased to be a Sikh ; it  iscontended  that	 this  power also relates to  a	 'matter  ofreligion' within the meaning of Art. 26(b).Without	 a  fuller  and more  detailed	examination  of	 theprovisions  of	the principal Act we hesitate  to  pronouncefinally	 on  the  larger  question  if	any  of	 the   otherprovisions of the principal Act affect matters of religion ;nor do we think it necessary to decide that larger  questionin  the present case.  We are of the view that	the  presentpetition  can  be decided on a shorter ground,	even  if  weproceed on the assumption that some of the provisions of theprincipal  Act relate to matters of religion and the  Board,either acting in exercise of its power of control, directionand superintendence over other committees or in its capacityas  the	 committee for certain gurdwaras,  can	pass  ordersabout matters of religion.  We may point out, however,	thatthe  preamble  of  the principal Act indicates	that  it  ismainly	a  law to provide for the better  administration  ofcertain Sikh gurdwaras and it is admitted that in so far  asthe  powers  of the Board relate to mere  administration  ofgurdwara properties in either512of  its	 two  capacities, such	administration	must  be  inaccordance with law, and the appropriate legislature can laydown what the law should be.  The question which is decisiveof  the	 present  petition is-does  s.	148-B  interfere  inmatters of religion ? Sections 133 and 134 of the  principalAct are not impugned before us; what is impugned is s.	148-B.  That section has not in any way affected whatever powersthe  Board  or Committee has under ss. 133 and	134  of	 theprincipal  Act.	  The gravamen of the  objections  urged  onbehalf	of the petitioners is that s. 148-B introduces	eventhough	as  a temporary measure, some more  designated	SikhMembers into the Board by cl. (a) of sub.s. (1) thereof	 andfurther	 introduces the election of thirty-five Sikhs  (fromthe  Pepsu  area)  into the Board by means  of	an  indirectmethod,	 that is, by a limited Sikh electorate, the  membersof  which electorate are in their turn elected by  Sikhs  aswell  as non Sikhs.  In order to establish their  case,	 thepetitioners  must prove not merely that some  provisions  Ofthe principal Act refer to matters of religion, but that theintroduction of new members into the Board in respect of theextended  territories  of  the Pepsu  area,  in	 the  mannerenvisaged  by s. 148-B, violates by itself the right of	 theSikhs  in  a matter of religion.  Learned  counsel  for	 thepetitioners  is	 thus  forced to take up the  stand  that  adirect	election of the members of the Board by	 the  entireSikh community is itself a matter of the Sikh religion	and,therefore, part of the content of the right Guaranteed underArt. 26(b).  We do not think that such a stand is correct orjustified  by  Art.  26 of the	Constitution:  nor  has	 anyauthoritative  text  been placed before us to  show  that  adirect	election  by  the  entire  Sikh	 community  in	 themanagement  of gurdwaras is part of the Sikh religion.	 Theprincipal Act, as it stood before the amending, Act of 1959,does  not  support any such contention.	 However  great	 ourrespect	 may  be  for the  democratic  principle  of  directelections  we  do  not	think  that  having  regard  to	 theprovisions  of' the principal Act and the  circumstances  inwhich  s. 148-B came to be added thereto, the  principle  ofdirect513election on universal denominational suffrage can be  raisedto the pedestal of religion within the meaning of Art. 26(b)of  the	 Constitution.	If it were so raised, then  the	 co-option of some members which has not been challenged by	 thepetitioners  would  also be violative of  their	 fundamentalright;	so also any restrictions which the principal Act  orthe  rules  made  thereunder may impose	 in  the  matter  ofelection or the exercise of the vote, such as,	restrictionswith regard to the age of the voter, etc.  Obviously,  theseare  not matters of religion and we say without meaning	 anyoffence	 to  anybody  that  to treat  these  as	 matters  ofreligion  is tantamount to confusing religion  with  currentpolitics.It is to be remembered that the principal Act constituted  aBoard  representative  of the Sikhs both inside	 Punjab	 andoutside	 it;  that is why in the constitution of  the  Boardthere was provision for election, nomination, designation ofthe head ministers of certain principal Sikh gurdwaras,	 andalso co-option.	 The purpose obviously was to make the Boardas representative as possible, and because an Act passed  bythe Punjab legislature could not contain provisions for	 theelection of members from constituencies outside the  Punjab,there  arose the necessity for nomination,  designation	 andco-option.   The  designation of the head ministers  of	 thefive  principal Sikh shrines may be also attributed  to	 thereason that they were important functionaries who should  beon  the Board.	In 1953, nomination was done away  with	 andthe number of co-opted members was increased to	 twentyfive,of whom at least twelve were to be residents of Pepsu.	Thiswas even before the principal Act was extended to the  Pepsuarea.  When the amending Act of 1959 extended the  principalAct  to the Pepsu area, the problem at once arose as to	 howto  give  some representation to the Sikhs in  the  extendedareas,	for the intervening period before the next  electionof  the	 Board, and also as a permanent	 measure:  s.  148-Bgives  representation to those areas as an  interim  measureand s. 43-A as a permanent measure.  Considering s. 148-B inthe light of these circumstances, we65514are unable to hold that it violates the fundamental right ofthe Sikhs under Art. 26(b) of the Constitution.	 The  methodof representation for the extended areas during the  interimperiod appears to us to be an arrangement dictated merely byconsiderations	of convenience and expediency, and does	 notinvolve	 any principle of religion.  The question before  usis  not whether a more satisfactory arrangement	 could	havebeen  made even for the interim period ; perhaps,  it  couldhave been.  Learned counsel for the petitioners has  pointedout  that many Sikhs of influence and standing in the  Pepsuarea will have no vote for the interim period.	That may  beunfortunate,  but  is  not  a  relevant	 consideration	 fordetermining  the question before us, namely,  whether  therehas been interference with freedom of religion.We now proceed to consider the specific grievances which thepetitioners  have  made in respect of the persons  who	comeinto  the  Board under s. 148-B.  As to the members  of	 theInterim	 Board, Patiala, who under cl. (a) of sub-s. (1)  ofs.  148-B are deemed to be members of the Board	 constitutedunder  s. 43, it is argued that they were appointed under  aPunjab	Government notification dated January 10, 1958,	 andthough	they  are  Sikhs, they do  not	represent  the	Sikhcommunity and are mere nominees of Government;	furthermore,they  are not subject to the disqualifications mentioned  inss. 45 and 46 of the Act in respect of elected and  co-optedmembers respectively.  We have pointed out earlier that	 theprincipal   Act	 contained  a  provision  before  1953	 fornomination  of	12 members by the Rajpramukh of	 Pepsu;	 andafter  1953, the co-opted members included twelve  residentsof  Pepsu.   By	 an order of the Maharaja  of  Patiala,	 theInterim	 Gurdwara  Board, Patiala, was constituted  to	lookafter certain gurdwaras of the Pepsu area, and after  mergerthe  appointment  was made by the Governor  of	the  Punjab.Under s. 148-A which was also added to the principal Act  bythe  amending  Act  of 1959,  the  Interim  Gurdwara  Board,Patiala,  has ceased to function, and under  s.	 148-B(1)(a)the  members  of  the Interim Board,  Patiala,	have  becomemembers515of the Board constituted under s. 43.  We are unable to holdthat the designation of such members, as an interim measure,to  represent those gurdwaras in the Pepsu area	 which	theywere  actually	managing  is violative	of  any	 fundamentalright;	nor  do	 we think that the  non-application  of	 thedisqualifications  stated  in ss. 45 and 46 of	the  Act  tothese  members	advances  the case of  the  petitioners	 anyfurther.   The principal Act did not contain any  provisionsas  to disqualification of designated members; it  containedprovisions for disqualification of elected, nominated or co-opted  members and after nomination had ceased in  1953,  ofelected	 or  co-opted members only.  It	 is  permissible  topresume	 that the legislature knows that the members  it  isdesignating   do  not  suffer  from  any   disqualificationsfurthermore,  the  petitioners have not	 even  suggested  intheir  petition	 that  the members  of	the  Interim  Board,Patiala, suffer from any Of the disqualifications stated  ins. 45 or s. 46.With regard to the thirty-five Sikhs to be elected under cl.(b)  of	 sub-s.	 (1)  of s.  148-B,  there  is	a  threefoldcontention.   It has been submitted that (1) the  electoratedetailed in sub-s. (2) of s. 148-B is not representative  ofall  the Sikhs ; (2) some of the members of  the  electoratelike Sikh members of Parliament and Municipal Committees arein  their turn elected by joint constituencies of Sikhs	 andnon-Sikhs;  and	 (3) some of the members of  the  electoratelike  Sikh  Sarpanches	and Sikh Naya Pradhans	are  in	 theservice,  and under the influence of Government.  We do	 notagree  that  these considerations are determinative  of	 theproblem before us.  We have already said that the method  ofrepresentation	to  the Board for the extended areas  as  aninterim	  measure  is  not  a  matter  of   religion.	 Thecircumstance  that  some members of the	 electorate  are  intheir turn elected by constituencies consisting of Sikhs andnon-Sikhs  is far too remote and indirect to  constitute  aninfringement  of  freedom of religion.	The members  of	 theelectorate itself are	 all  Sikhs and they have  to  electthirty-five Sikhs.  Unless one proceeds mechanically on mereabstract  considerations, there is no real basis for the516contention  that  non-Sikhs  can in any	 way  influence	 theBoard.	 We  do	 not agree that	 Sikh  Sarpanches  and	NayaPradhans  are  in the service of Government  or	 that  theirinclusion as members of the electorate violates the right ofthe Sikhs under Art. 26 (b) of the Constitution.  It may notbe  quite  irrelevant  to point out  here  that	 the  twelvemembers of the Interim Gurdwara Board, Patiala, plus thirty-five elected Sikhs from the Pepsu area will be a minority asagainst 132 elected members and twenty-five co-opted membersof the Board.For  the reasons given above, we hold that  the	 petitionershave  failed  to  make	out a case  of	violation  of  theirfundamental  right.  Accordingly, the petition fails and  isdismissed with costs.Petition dismissed.