PETITIONER:G.     VENKATASWAMI NAIDU & CO.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMM1SSIONER OF INCOME-TAXDATE OF JUDGMENT:24/11/1958BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  359		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 646 CITATOR INFO : F	    1959 SC1252	 (7,9,14,15) RF	    1961 SC1062	 (7) R	    1962 SC1141	 (6) R	    1962 SC1267	 (14) R	    1965 SC1898	 (9) R	    1968 SC 683	 (9) F	    1968 SC 788	 (5,7) F	    1968 SC 811	 (3) R	    1969 SC 460	 (6) RF	    1969 SC1053	 (4) R	    1970 SC1560	 (9) R	    1971 SC 794	 (12) RF	    1975 SC2106	 (11,16) R	    1976 SC2150	 (3,7,10) RF	    1986 SC1695	 (21)ACT:Income Tax-Income from isolated transactions--" Adventure inthe nature of trade "-Business income-Indian Income Tax Act,1922 (XI Of 1922), SS. 2(4), 10.Reference  to  High  Court-Transaction, whether	 or  not  anadventure  in the nature of trade-Mixed question of law	 andfact-Indian-Income-tax Act,1922 (XI of 1922),s.66(1)HEADNOTE:The appellant, who was a firm acting as managing agents of alimited	 company (the Mills), purchased four plots  of	landadjoining the Mills on various dates between 1941 and  1942,and  about  five years later sold them to the  Mills,  as  aresult. of which the appellant realised a sum of Rs.  43,887in  excess of the purchase price, For the  assessment  year.1948-49	 the  Income tax Officer treated the amount  as	 theincome.	 of  the appellant 'and assessed  it  to  income-taxunder  head  'business',  on the ground that  there  was  noevidence  to show that the appellant had purchased the	saidlands  for agricultural purposes or that they were  acquiredas  an investment, and, that since the lands: were  adjacentto the Mills the appellant must have- purchased them  solelywith  a view to sell them to the Mills; with.  profit.	 'Heconsidered that the transaction' had---;ill the elements  ofa  business transaction' and was thus an adventure  in	the,natural of 'trade within s. 2(4)of the Indian Income-tax Act7 The Appellate, Tribunal rejected the explanation given  bythe  appellate	'regarding" the object with  which   it	 hadpurchased the plots of land agreed641with  the  view	 taken by the Income-tax  Officer.   At	 theinstance of the appellant the Tribunal referred to the	HighCourt  the  question: " whether there was material  for	 theassessment  of the sum of.  Rs. 43 87 being  the  differencebetween	 the  purchase and sale price of the four  plots  ofland  as income from all adventure in the nature  of  trade.The High Court held that' the transaction in question was anadventure  in  the  nature of trade and	 so  the  income-taxauthorities  were justified in taxing the amount  under	 thehead 'business' for the relevant year.	On appeal by specialleave  to  the	Supreme Court, it was  contend	ed  for	 theappellant that on the facts and circumstances of the case itwas  erroneous	in  law to hold	 that  the  transaction	 illquestion  was an adventure in the nature of trade.   On	 theother  hand,  it  was  urged for  the  respondent  that	 thequestion as raised before the High Court was one of fact notliable to be challenged under s. 66(1) of the Act.Held,  (1) that the expression " adventure in the nature  oftrade " in sub-s. (4) Of S. 2 of the Indian Income-tax	Act,1922,  postulates the existence of certain elements  in	 theadventure which in law would invest it with the character oftrade  or business and that a tribunal while  considering  aquestion  as  to  whether  a transaction is  or	 is  not  anadventure  in  the nature of trade, before arriving  at	 itsfinal  conclusion  on facts, has to address  itself  to	 thelegal  requirements associated with the concept of trade  orbusiness.  Such a question is one of mixed law and fact	 andthe   decision	 of  the  tribunal  thereon   is   open	  toconsideration under s. 66(1) of the Act.Meenakshi  Mills,  Madurai v.  Commissioner  of	 Income-tax,Madras, [1956] S.C.R. 691 and Oriental Investment Co.,	Ltd.v.  Commissioner  of Income-tax, Bombay, [1958]	 S.C.R.	 49,relied on.Edwards v. Bairstow [1956] A.C. 14, considered and held	 notinconsistent with the above said decisions.2)   that in the circumstances of this case it would be moreappropriate  to frame the question in this from: "  whether,on  the	 facts	and circumstances proved in  the  case,	 theinference  that the transaction in question is an  adventurein the nature of trade is in law justified."Held,  further, that even an isolated transaction  might  beregarded  as an adventure in the nature of trade  within  S.2(4)  Of  the  Act, if it is characterised by  some  of	 theessential features that make up trade or business.Though	judicial decisions which deal with the character  oftransactions  alleged  to be in the nature of trade  do	 notpurport	 to  lay  down any general or  universal  test,	 thepresence  of  all  the	relevant  circumstances,   mentionedby..them my help the court to draw a similar inference,	 butit  is not a matter of merely counting the number  of  factsand circumstances pro and con; it is the total effect of allthe  relevant factors and circumstances that  determine	 thedistinctive character of the transactions648If  a  person invests money in land intending  to  hold	 it,enjoys	its  income for some time, and then sells  it  at  aprofit,then it is a case of capital accretion and not profitderived from an adventure in the nature of trade.  But wherea  purchase  has been made solely and exclusively  with	 theintention  to  resell at a profit and the purchaser  had  nointention  of holding the property for himself or  otherwiseenjoying  or using it, there would be a	 strong	 presumptionthat the transaction is an adventure in the nature of trade;but this may be rebutted by the other facts or circumstancesof the case.The  Californian Copper Syndicate (Limited and	Reduced)  v.Harris (Surveyor of Taxes), (1904) 5 Tax Cas. 159; T. BeynonJUDGMENT:lnland Revenue v. Livingston, (1926) 11 Tax Cas. 538; Martinv.  Lowry, (1926) 11 Tax Cas 297; Rutledge v.  Commissionersof  Inland Revenue, (1929) 14 Tax Cas. 490;  Balgownie	LandTrust,	Ltd. v. The Commissioners of Inland Revenue,  (1929)14 Tax Cas. 684; F. A. Lindsay, A. E. Woodward and W. Hiscoxv.  Commissioners of Inland Revenue, (1932) 18 Tax  Cas.  43and Cayzer, Irvine and Co., Ltd. v. Commissioners of  InlandRevenue, (1942) 24 Tax Cas. 491, considered.Commissioners  of Inland Revenue v. Reinhold, (1953) 34	 TaxCas.  389, distinguished and considered as not	laying	downany general proposition of law.In  the	 present  case, the circumstances  showed  that	 theappellant whose ordinary business was not to make investmentin  lands  had	purchased the plots of land  with  the	soleintention of selling them to the Mills at a profit and	thisintention raised a strong presumption that the purchase	 andthe  subsequent	 sale  were an adventure in  the  nature  oftrade; and, it was held that in the absence of any rebuttingevidence,  the	Income-tax  authorities	 were  justified  intaxing the amount in question as income from business.&Civil APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.709 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedApril  18, 1955, of the Madras High Court in  Case  ReferredNo. 25 of 1952.A.   V.	 Viswanatha  Sastri  and M. S. K.  Sastri,  for	 theappellant."M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, R,  GanapathyIyer, R. H. Dhebar and D.  Gupta, for the respondent.1958.  November.24. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredby		    649GAJENDRAGADKAR,	 J.-The	 appellant  is	a  firm	 acting	  asmanaging agents of the Janardana Mills Ltd., Coimbatore.  Itpurchased four contiguous plots of land admeasuring 5  acres26 cents under four sale deeds executed on October 25, 1941,November  15,  1941, June 29, 1942, and November  19,  1942,respectively  for a total consideration of  Rs.	 8,712-15-6.After  about  five years these properties were sold  by	 theappellant in two lots to the Janardana Mills Ltd.  The firstlot  was  sold	on  September 1, 1947,	and  the  second  onNovember 10, 1947, the total consideration for the two salesbeing  Rs.  52,600.   These  two  sales	 realised  for	 theappellant  a sum of Rs.43,887-0-6 in excess of the  purchaseprice.The Income-tax Officer treated the said amount of Rs. 43,887as the income of the appellant for the assessment year 1948-49, and assessed it to income-tax under the head "  business". The officer held that there was no evidence to show	thatthe appellant had purchased the said lands for	agriculturalpurposes or that it had acquired them as an investment.	  Healso found that, since the lands were adjacent to the Janar-dana  Mills, the appellant must have purchased	them  solelywith  a view to sell them to the said mills with  a  profit.That  is why, though the transaction was in the nature of  asolitary  transaction,	it  was held that  it  had  all	 theelements of a business transaction and was thus an adventurein the nature of trade.Against this order of assessment the appellant preferred  anappeal	 to  the  Appellate  Assistant	Commissioner.	 Theappellate  authority upheld the appellant's contention	thatthe  amount in question was not assessable as it  cannot  behold  to be income or profit resulting from a  profit-makingscheme, and set aside the order under appeal.The  respondent challenged the correctness of this order  bytaking	an  appeal  against it to  the	Incometax  AppellateTribunal.   The tribunal agreed with the view taken  by	 theIncome-tax Officer and held that the amount in question	 wasnot  a capital accretion but a gain made in an adventure  inthe nature of business82650in  carrying  out a scheme of profit-making.   The  tribunalrejected  the explanations given by the appellant as to	 whyit  had purchased the properties and held that the  purchasehad  been made by the appellant solely with a view  to	sellthe said properties at profit to the Janardana Mills.At the instance of the appellant the tribunal then  referredto the High Court of Madras the question suggested by it  inthese words: " whether there was material for the assessmentof  the sum of Rs. 43,887 being the difference	between	 thepurchase and sale price of the four plots of land as  incomefrom an adventure in the nature of trade ".This  reference	 was  heard by	Rajagopalan  and  RajagopalaAyyangar,  JJ., and the question referred has been  answeredagainst	 the  appellant.  The High Court has held  that	 thetransaction  in question was an adventure in the  nature  oftrade  and  so the respondent was justified  in	 taxing	 theamount	in  question  under the head " business	 "  for	 therelevant  year.	  The  application for	leave  made  by	 theappellant  was	rejected by the High Court.   Thereupon	 theappellant applied for, and obtained, special leave to appealto this Court.	That is how the appeal has been admitted  inthis  Court ; and the only question which it raises for	 ourdecision is whether the High Court was right in holding thatthe  transaction in question was an adventure in the  natureof trade.We may at this stage brie y indicate the material facts	 andcircumstances found by the tribunal and the inference  drawnby  it	in  regard to the character of	the  transaction  inquestion.  The appellant purchased the four plots under fourdifferent  -sale deeds.	 The first purchase was for Rs.	 521and  it covered a piece of land admeasuring 281	 cents;	 thesecond	purchase related to 2 acres 791 cents and the  pricepaid was Rs. 1,250; while the third and the fourth purchaseswere  for  Rs. 1,942 and Rs. 5,000 and they covered  28	 1/4cents  and 1 acre and 90 cents respectively.   The  propertypurchased under the first sale deed was sold on November 10,1947,  for Rs. 2,825 whereas the three remaining  propertieswere sold on September 1, 1947,		    651for  Rs.  49,775,  the purchaser in  both  cases  being	 theJanardana  Mills  Ltd.	The purchase of the  first  item  ofproperty  by the appellant had been made in the name of	 Mr.V.  G. Raja, assistant manager of the Janardana Mills  Ltd.,who  is the son-in-law Of G. Venkataswami Naidu, one of	 thepartners  of  the  appellant  firm.   Naturally	 when	thisproperty was sold to the mills the document was executed  bythe  ostensible owner V. G. Raja.  It is not  disputed	thatthe  purchase in the name of V. G. Raja was benami  for	 theappellant.   All the plots which were thus purchased by	 theappellant  piecemeal  are  contiguous and  they	 adjoin	 themills.	On the plot purchased on June 29, 1942, there  stooda  house of six rooms which fetched an annual rent of  aboutRs. 100; and after deduction of taxes, it left a net  incomeof  Rs. 80 per year to the appellant.  The other  plots	 arevacant	sites and they brought no income to  the  appellant.During	the  time that the appellant was  in  possession  ofthese  plots it made no effort to put up any  structures  onthem or to cultivate them; and so it was clear that the onlyobject	with which the appellant had purchased	these  plotswas to sell them to the mills at a profit.  It was, however,urged  by the appellant that the properties had been  boughtas  an investment.  This plea was rejected by the  tribunal.The tribunal likewise rejected the appellant's case that  ithad  purchased	the  plots for building	 tenements  for	 thelabourers working in the Janardana Mills.  Alternatively  itwas urged by the appellant that the Janardana Mills  decidedto  purchase  the  plots  because' an  award  passed  by  anindustrial  tribunal in June 1947 had recommended  that	 themills should provide tenements for its labourers.  Thus	 theappellant's   case  was	 that  it  had	not  purchased	 theproperties  with  a view to sell them to the mills  and	 themills  in  fact would not have purchased them  but  for	 therecommendation made by the award which made it necessary forthe mills to purchase the adjoining plots for the purpose ofbuilding tenements for its employees.  The tribunal was	 notimpressed even by this plea; and so it ultimately held	thatthe  plots  had been purchased by the appellant	 wholly	 andsolely,652with  the idea of selling them at profit to the mills.	 Thetribunal  thought that since the appellant was the  managingagent  of  the mills it was in a position to  influence	 thedecision of the mills to purchase the properties from it andthat  was  the sole basis for its initial  purchase  of	 theplots.	  On  these  findings  the  tribunal   reached	 theconclusion  that  the sum of Rs. 43,887 was  not  a  capitalaccretion but was a gain made in the adventure in the natureof  business  in carrying out the scheme  of  profit-making.The appellant contends that, on the facts and  circumstancesfound  in the cage, it is erroneous in law to hold that	 thetransaction  in	 question is an adventure in the  nature  oftrade.There  is  no doubt that the jurisdiction conferred  on	 theHigh Court by s. 66(1) is limited to entertaining referencesinvolving  questions  of  law.	 If  the  point	 raised	  onreference relates to the construction of a document of titleor  to the interpretation of the relevant provisions of	 thestatute,  it is a pure question of law; and in dealing	withit,  though the High Court may have due regard for the	viewtaken by the tribunal, its decision would not be fettered bythe said view.	It is free to adopt such construction of thedocument  or  the statute as appears to it  reasonable.	  Insome  cases, the point sought to be raised on reference	 mayturn  out to be a pure question of fact; and if that be	 so,the  finding  of  fact	recorded by  the  tribunal  must  beregarded  as conclusive in proceedings under s. 66(1).	 If,however,  such	a finding of fact is based on  an  inferencedrawn  from primary evidentiary facts proved. in  the  case,its  correctness  or  validity	is  open  to  challenge	  inreference proceedings within narrow limits.  The assessee orthe revenue can contend that the inference has been drawn onconsidering   inadmissible  evidence  or   after   excludingadmissible and relevant evidence; and, if the High Court  issatisfied  that	 the  inference is the	result	of  improperadmission or exclusion of evidence, it would be justified inexamining the correctness of the conclusion.  It may also beopen to the party to challenge a conclusion of fact drawn bythe  tribunal on the ground that it is not supported by	 anylegal evidence; or that the impugned conclusion drawn		    653from  the relevant facts is not rationally possible; and  ifsuch  a plea is established, the court may consider  whetherthe  conclusion in question is not perverse and should	not,therefore,  be set aside.  It is within these narrow  limitsthat the conclusions of fact recorded by the tribunal can bechallenged  under s. 66(1).  Such conclusions can  never  bechallenged   on	 the  ground,,,	 that  they  are  based	  onmisappreciation of evidence.  There is yet a third class  ofcases  in  which  the assessee or the revenue  may  seek  tochallenge  the correctness of the conclusion reached by	 thetribunal on the ground that it is a conclusion on a questionof mixed law and fact.	Such a conclusion is no doubt  basedupon the primary evidentiary facts, but its ultimate form isdetermined by the application of relevant legal	 principles.The  need  to apply the relevant legal principles  tends  toconfer	upon the final conclusion its character of  a  legalconclusion and that is why it is regarded as a conclusion ona question of mixed law and fact.  In dealing with  findingson  questions of mixed law and fact the High Court would  nodoubt  have  to accept the findings of the tribunal  on	 theprimary questions of fact; but it is open to the High  Courtto  examine  whether the tribunal had applied  the  relevantlegal  principles correctly or not; and in that	 sense,	 thescope  of enquiry and the extent of the jurisdiction of	 theHigh  Court  in dealing with such points is the same  as  indealing with pure points of law.This question has been exhaustively considered by this Courtin  Meenakshi Mills, Madurai v. Commissioner of	 Income-tax,Madras (1).  In this case the appellate tribunal had come tothe  conclusion that certain sales entered in the  books  ofthe   appellant	  company   in	 the   names   of    certainintermediaries, firms and companies, were fictitious and theprofits ostensibly earned by them were in fact earned by theappellant  which  had  itself sold the	goods  to  the	realpurchasers  and	 received the prices.  On this	finding	 thetribunal  had  ordered that the profits received  from	suchsales should be added to the amount shown as profits in	 theappellant's books and should be taxed.	The appellant654applied	 for a reference to the tribunal under s. 66(1)	 andthe High Court of Madras under s. 66(2), but his applicationwas  rejected.	Then it came to this Court by special  leaveunder  Art.  136  and it was urged on its  behalf  that	 thetribunal  had  erred in law in holding that  the  firms	 andcompanies   described	as  the	 intermediaries	  were	 itsbenamidars  and that its application -for  reference  shouldhave  been  allowed.  This plea was rejected by	 this  Courtbecause it was held that the question of benami is purely  aquestion of fact and not a mixed question of law and fact asit does not involve the application of any legal  principlesfor  its determination.	 In dealing with the argument  urgedby  the appellant, this Court has fully considered the	truelegal  position	 in  regard to the limitation  of  the	HighCourt's	 jurisdiction  in entertaining references  under  s.66(1) in the light of several judicial decisions bearing  onthe point.  The ultimate decision of the Court on this	partof  the	 case  was  that  "  on	 principles  established  byauthorities  only  such questions as relate to	one  or	 theother of the following matters can be questions of law unders. 66(1): (1) the construction of a statute or a document oftitle  (2)  the legal effect of the facts  found  where	 thepoint for determination is a mixed question of law and fact;and  (3)  a  finding  of fact  unsupported  by	evidence  orunreasonable and perverse in nature ". Having regard to thislegal  position this Court held that the question of  benamiwas  a	pure question of fact and it could not	be  agitatedunder s. 66(1).The point about the scope and effect of the provisions of s.66(1)has again been considered by this Court in The OrientalInvestment Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay(1)This was a case on the other side of the line.	It was	heldthat whether the appellant's business amounted to dealing inshares	and properties or to investment is a mixed  questionof law and fact and that the legal effect of the facts foundby the tribunal as a result of which the appellant could  betreated as a dealer or investor is a question of law.  As  aresult of this conclusion the appeal(1)  [1958] S. C. R. 49.		    655preferred by the appellant was allowed, the order passed  bythe   High  Court  refusing  the  appellant's  request	 forreference was set aside and the case was remitted to it	 fordirecting the tribunal to state a case, on the two questionsmentioned  in the judgment.' These two decisions  bring	 outclearly	 the  distinction  between  findings  of  fact	 andfindings of mixed questions of law and fact.What then is the nature of the question raised before us  inthe  present appeal ? The tribunal and the High	 Court	havefound  that the transaction in question is an  adventure  inthe nature of trade; and it is the correctness of this	viewthat is challenged in the present appeal.  The expression  "adventure  in the nature of trade" is used by the Act in  s.2, sub-s. (4) which defines business as including any trade,commerce or manufacture, or any adventure or concern in	 thenature of trade, commerce or manufacture.  Under s. 10,	 taxshall  be payable by an assessee under the head profits	 andgains of business, profession or vocation in respect of	 theprofit	or  gains of any business,  profession	or  vocationcarried	 on by him.  Thus the appellant would be  liable  topay  the tax on the relevant amount if it is held  that	 thetransaction  which  brought  him this  amount  was  businesswithin the meaning of s. 2, sub-s. (4) and it can be said tobe  business  of the appellant if it is held that it  is  anadventure  in  the  nature of trade.   In  other  words,  inreaching the conclusion that the transaction is an adventurein  the	 nature of trade, the tribunal has to  find  primaryevidentiary  facts  and	 then  apply  the  legal  principlesinvolved  in  the expression " adventure in  the  nature  oftrade  "  used by s. 2, sub-s. (4).  It is patent  that	 theclause	" in the nature of trade " postulates the  existenceof  certain  elements in the adventure which  in  law  wouldinvest	it  with the character of a trade or  business;	 andthat  would make the question and its decision one of  mixedlaw and fact.  This view has been incidentally expressed  bythis  Court in the case of Meenakshi Mills, Madurai  (1)  inrepelling the appellant's argument based on the decision  ofthe(1)  [1956] S. C. R. 691.656House  of  Lords  in  Edwards  v.  Bairstow  (1).   For	 therespondent,  the  learned  Attorney-General  has,   however,relied	on  the fact that the relevant observations  in	 thecase  of  Meenakshi Mills, Madurai, are obiter	and  he	 hasinvited our attention to the decision in the case of Edwards(1)  in support of his contention that the judgment  of	 theHouse  of  Lords  would show that  the	question  about	 thecharacter  of  the transaction was ultimately treated  as  aquestion  of fact.  Before we refer to the said decision  itmay be relevant to observe that there are two ways in  whichthe  question may be approached.  Even if the conclusion  ofthe  tribunal  about  the character of	the  transaction  istreated as a conclusion on a question of fact, it cannot  beignored	 that, in arriving at its final conclusion on  factsproved,	 the tribunal has undoubtedly to address  itself  tothe legal requirements associated with the concept of  tradeor  business.	Without taking into  account  such  relevantlegal principles it would not be possible to decide  whetherthe  transaction in question is or is not in the  nature  oftrade.	If that be so, the final conclusion of the  tribunalcan  be	 challenged on the ground that	the  relevant  legalprinciples have been misapplied by the tribunal in  reachingits  decision  on the point; and such a challenge  would  beopen under s. 66(1) because it is a challenge on a ground oflaw.  The same result is achieved from another point of viewand that is to treat the final conclusion as one on a  mixedquestion  of law and fact.  On this view the  conclusion  isnot  treated  as  one on a pure question of  fact,  and	 itsvalidity  is allowed to be impeached on the ground  that  ithas  been  based  on  a misapplication	of  the	 true  legalprinciples.  It would thus be seen that whether we call the.conclusion  in	question  as  one of fact or  as  one  on  aquestion  of  mixed law and fact, the application  of  legal-principles  which is an essential part in the	process	 of-reaching the said conclusion is undoubtedly a matter of	 lawand  if	 there has been an error in the application  of	 thesaid  principles  it can be challenged as an error  of	law.The difference then is merely one of form and not substance;and on the whole it is(1)  [1956] A. C. 14; 36 Tax Cas. 207.657more convenient to describe the question involved as a mixedquestion  of  law and fact.  That is the view  expressed  bythis Court in the case of Meenakshi Mills, Madurai (1); and,in  our	 opinion,  it avoids any confusion  of	thought	 andsimplifies  the	 position  by  treating	 such  questions  asanalogous  to those falling under the category of  questionsof law.Let  us then consider whether the decision of the' House  ofLords  in the case of Edwards(2) is inconsistent  with	thisview.  In this case the respondents, who were respectively adirector of a leather manufacturing company and an  employeeof  a  spinning firm, purchased a complete  cotton  spinningplant  in 1946 with the object of selling it as	 quickly  aspossible  at a profit.	They hoped to sell the plant in	 onelot,  but ultimately had to dispose of it in  five  separatelots  over the period from November 1946 to  February  1948.Assessments to income-tax in respect of profits arising fromthis  transaction were made under Case I of Schedule  D	 forthe  years 1946-47 and 1947-48.	 On the matter	being  takenbefore the Chancery Division, it was held in accordance withthe  earlier decisions of the Court of Appeal in  Cooper  v.Stubbs (3) and Leeming v. Jones (4) that the finding of	 theGeneral Commissioners was a finding of fact which could	 notbe  challenged	in appeal.  The attention of the  court	 wasdrawn  to the different view expressed in a  Scottish  case,Commissioners  of  Inland Revenue v. Fraser  (5)  where	 theCourt  of Session had held that it was at liberty  to  treatthe matter as a mixed question of fact and law, and in	factit had overruled the finding of the General Commissioners inthat behalf " It does not seem to me ", observed Upjohn, J.," that in this court I am at liberty to follow the  practiceof  the Scottish Court, attractive though it would be to  doso,  if	 the  matter  was  res	integra	 ".  However,  sinceapparently the finding of the General Commissioners did	 notappear	to  the	 court to be satisfactory,  the	 matter	 wasremitted  to  them  with  an  intimation  that	they  shouldconsider(2)  [1956]A.C.14;36 Tax Cas. 207(4)  (1930) 15 Tax Cas. 333(1)  [1956)S.C.R. 691.(3)  (1925) To Tax Cas. 29.(5)  (1942) 24 Tax Cas. 498.83658the  question  whether the transaction,	 being	an  isolatedtransaction,  there  was nevertheless an  adventure  in	 thenature of trade which was assessable to tax under Case 1  ofSchedule D. The Commissioners were directed to hear  furtherarguments on this point before stating a supplementary case.After  remand,	the Commissioners adhered to  their  earlierview  and  stated  that	 they  were  of	 opinion  that	 thetransaction was an isolated case and not taxable and so theydischarged  the	 assessments.  With the	 statement  of	thissupplementary  case,  the  matter  was	argued	before	 theChancery Division again.  Wynn-Parry, J., who delivered	 thejudgment on this occasion referred to the earlier  decisionsof the Court of Appeal and held that " on those	 authoritiesprima  facie the matter is concluded by the decision of	 theCommissioners  that the transaction, the  subject-matter  ofthe  case,  was not an adventure in the nature of  trade  ".Then  the learned judge examined the question as to  whetherthe  decision  of  the	Commissioners  can  be	said  to  beperverse;  and held that it could not be  so  characterised.In  the result the appeal was dismissed.  The question	thenreached	 the  Court of Appeal but the result was  the  same.The Court of Appeal observed that the earlier decisions werebinding on it no less than the Court of First Instance ; andso  it held that the conclusion of the Commissioners  was  afinding of fact which the court cannot disturb.	 However, itis  apparent  from the discussion that took place  when	 thecourt granted leave to. the Crown to take the matter to	 theHouse  of Lords that the court did not feel happy about	 thecorrectness of the finding made by the General Commissionersin  the case.  That is how the matter reached the  House  ofLords.The  facts in this case were so clearly against the  findingof the Commissioners that Viscount Simonds made it clear  atthe  outset  that  in  his opinion, "  what.  ever  test  isadopted,  that is, whether the finding that the	 transactionwas  not  an  adventure	 in the nature of  trade  is  to  beregarded  as a pure finding of fact or as the  determinationof  the question of law or of mixed law and fact,  the	sameresult would be reached in this659case.  The determination cannot stand.	This appeal must  beallowed	 and the assessments must be confirmed".  It  is  inthe  light of this emphatic statement that the rest  of	 thejudgment  of  Viscount	Simonds	 must  be  considered.	  Hereferred to the divergence of views expressed in English andScottish  decisions and his conclusion was that " if and  sofar  as	 there is any,, divergence between the	English	 andScottish approach it is the former which is supported by theprevious authority of this House to which reference has beenmade  "; but he analysed the position involved in  both	 theapproaches and held that the difference between them was notof  substance.	" To say that a transaction is or is not  anadventure  in  the  nature of  trade  ",  observed  ViscountSimonds,   "  is  to  say  that	 it  has  or  has  not	 thecharacteristics	 which distinguish such an adventure but  itis   a	question  of  law  not	of  fact  what	 are   thosecharacteristics,  or,  in other words,	what  the  statutorylanguage  means.  It follows that the inference can only  beregarded  as an inference of fact if it is assumed that	 theTribunal which makes it is rightly directed in law what	 thecharacteristics	 are  and that, I think, is  the  assumptionthat  is  made	".  Dealing with the  merits  of  the  case,Viscount  Simonds observed that " sometimes, as in the	caseas  it now comes before the Court where all the admitted  orfound  facts  point one way and the inference is  the  otherway,  it  can  only  be a  matter  of  conjecture  why	thatinference  has been made.  In such a case it is easy  eitherto say that the Commissioners have made a wrong inference offact  because they have misdirected themselves in law or  totake  a	 short-cut  and	 say that they	have  made  a  wronginference  of law, and I venture to doubt whether  there  ismore   than   this  in	the  divergence	 between   the	 twojurisdictions  which  has  so  much  agitated  the   Revenueauthorities ". Lord Radcliffe substantially agreed with thisview.  He also referred to the divergence of views expressedin  Scottish and English decisions and observed that  "	 thetrue position of the Court in all these cases can be shortlystated.If  a  party to a hearing  before  the  Commissionersexpresses dissatisfaction with their determination660as being erroneous in point of law,it is for them to state acase  and in the body of it to set out the facts  that	theyhave  found as well as their determination.  I do not  thinkthat  inferences  drawn from other facts  are  incapable  ofthemselves  being findings of fact, although there is  valuein  the	 distinction between primary  facts  and  inferencesdrawn from them.  When -the case comes before the Court,  itis  its duty to examine the determination having  regard  toits  knowledge	of  the relevant law.  If  a  case  containsanything  ex facie which is bad in point of law	 and  which'bears upon the determination, it is obviously, erroneous  inpoint of law.  But, without any such misconception appearingex  facie, it may be that the facts found are such  that  nopersons acting judicially and properly instructed as to	 therelevant  law  could have come to  the	determination  underappeal.In those circumstances,too, the Court must  intervene". Lord Radcliffe remarked that the English courts had	beenled to be rather overready to treat these questions as	purequestions  of  fact and added "if so I would say  with	verygreat  respect that I think it a pity that such	 a  tendencyshould	persist ". Therefore, it seems to us that in  effectthis  decision	is not inconsistent with the  view  we	havetaken  about the character of the question raised before  usin  the	 present appeal.  As we have already  indicated,  toavoid  confusion  or unnecessary complications it  would  besafer and more convenient to describe the question about thecharacter of the transaction in the context as a question ofmixed law and fact.The learned Attorney-General has invited our attentionto thefact that the form in which the question referred tothe HighCourt  has been framed in the present case seems  to  assumethat the impugned finding is a finding of fact.	 It is	onlyin  regard  to	a finding of fact that	a  question  can  beproperly framed as to whether there was material to  supportthe said finding.  We would, therefore, like to add that  itwould  be  more appropriate to frame the  question  in	thisform: whether, on the facts and circumstances proved in	 thecase, the inference that the transaction in661question  is an adventure in the nature of trade is  in	 lawjustified  ?  In substance, that is the basis on  which	 thequestion has been framed by the respondent and considered bythe High Court.This  question	has  been  the	subject-matter	of   severaljudicial  decisions; and in dealing with it all	 the  judgesappear	to be agreed that no principle can be evolved  whichwould  govern  the  decision  of  all  cases  in  which	 thecharacter   of	 the  impugned	transaction  falls   to	  beconsidered.   When s. 2, sub-s. (4), refers to an  adventurein  the	 nature	 of  trade  it	clearly	 suggests  that	 thetransaction   cannot  properly	be  regarded  as  trade	  orbusiness.   It	is allied to  transactions  that  constitutetrade  or business but may not be trade or business  itself.It  is characterised by some of the essential features	thatmake  up trade or business but not by all of them;  and	 so,even an isolated transaction can satisfy the description  ofan  adventure in the nature of trade.  Sometimes it is	saidthat  a single plunge in the waters of trade may partake  ofthe character of an adventure in the nature of trade.	Thisstatement  may	be true; but in its application	 due  regardmust be shown to the requirement that the single plunge mustbe in the waters of trade.  In other words, at least some ofthe  essential	features  of trade must be  present  in	 theisolated  or single transaction.  On the other hand,  it  issometimes  said that the appearance of one swallow does	 notmake a summer.	This may be true if, in the metaphor, summerrepresents  trade;  but	 it  may  not  be  true	 if   summerrepresents an adventure in the nature of trade because, whenthe  section refers to an adventure in the nature of  trade,it is obviously referring to transactions which individuallycannot themselves be described as trade or business but	 areessentially  of	 such  a similar  character  that  they	 aretreated	 as in the nature of trade.  It was  faintly  arguedfor  the  appellant that it would be difficult to  regard  asingle	or an isolated transaction as one in the  nature  oftrade because income resulting from it would inevitably lackthe  characteristics attributed to it by Sir George  Loundesin  Commissioner  of I. T. v. Shaw Wallace  and	 Company(1).'Income their Lordships(1)  (1932) L. R. 59 I.A. 206.662think ", observed Sir George Loundes, " in this Act connotesa  periodical  monetary return coming in with some  sort  ofregularity or expected regularity from definite sources Thenthe learned judge proceeded to observe that income has	beenlikened pictorially to the fruit of a tree, or the crop of afield.	It is essentially the produce of something which  isoften	loosely	 spoken of as capital". In our	opinion,  itwould be unreasonable to apply the test involved in the	 useof  this pictorial language to the decision of the  questionas  to	whether a single or an isolated transaction  can  beregarded  as an adventure in the nature of trade.   In	thisconnection  we may, with respect, refer to the comment	madeby  Lord  Wright in Raja Bahadur Kamakshya Narain  Singh  ofRamgarh v. Commissioner of I. P., Bihar and Orissa (1)	that"  it is clear that such picturesque similes cannot be	usedto  limit the true character of income in general ". We	 areinclined to think that, in dealing with the very prosaic andsometimes  complex  questions arising under  the  Income-taxAct,  use of metaphors, however poetic and picturesque,	 maynot  help to clarify the position but may instead  introducean unnecessary element of confusion or doubt.As  we have already observed it is impossible to evolve	 anyformula which can be applied in determining the character ofisolated  transactions which come before the courts  in	 taxproceedings.   It would besides be inexpedient to  make	 anyattempt to evolve such a rule or formula.  Generally  speak-ing,  it  would not be difficult to decide whether  a  giventransaction  is an adventure in the nature of trade or	not.It  is the cases on the border line that  cause	 difficulty.If  a  person invests money in land intending  to  hold	 it,enjoys	its  income for some time, and then sells  it  at  aprofit,	 it would be a clear case of capital  accretion	 andnot profit derived from an adventure in the nature of trade.Cases  of realisation of investments consisting Of  purchaseand resale, though profitable, are clearly outside the doma-in of adventures in the nature of trade.  In deciding(1)  (1943) L.R. 70 I.A, 180, 193.663the  character	of  such transactions  several	factors	 aretreated	 as relevant.  Was the purchaser a trader  and	werethe  purchase of the commodity and its resale allied to	 hisusual trade or business or incidential to it ?	 Affirmativeanswers	 to  these questions may furnish relevant  data	 fordetermining  the character of the transaction.	What is	 thenature	of the commodity  purchased and resold	and  in whatquantity  was  it purchased and resold ?  If  the  commoditypurchased  is generally the subject-matter of trade, and  ifit  is purchased in very large quantities, it would tend  toeliminate  the possibility of investment for  personal	use,possession  or	Goverment.   Did the purchaser	by  any	 actsubsequent  to	the  purchase improve  the  quality  of	 thecommodity  purchased  and  thereby  made  it  more   readilyresaleable  ?  What were the incidents associated  with	 thepurchase  and resale ? Were they similar to  the  operationsusually	 associated  with  trade  or  business	?   Are	 thetransactions  of purchase and sale repeated ? In  regard  tothe purchase of the commodity and its subsequent  possessionby  the purchaser, does the element of pride  of  possessioncome  into  the picture ? A person may purchase a  piece  ofart,  hold  it for some time and if a  profitable  offer  isreceived  may sell it.	During the time that  the  purchaserhad  its  possession  he  may be  able	to  claim  pride  ofpossession and aesthetic satisfaction ; and if such a  claimis upheld that would be a factor against the contention thatthe transaction is in the nature of trade.  These and  otherconsiderations	are  set  out  and  discussed  in   judicialdecisions  which  deal with the	 character  of	transactionsalleged to be in the nature of trade.  In considering  thesedecisions it would be necessary to remember that they do notpurport	 to  lay down any general or  universal	 test.	 Thepresence of all the relevant circumstances mentioned in	 anyof them may help the court to draw a similar inference;	 butit  is not a matter of merely counting the number  of  factsand circumstances pro and con; what is important to consideris  their  distinctive character.  In each case, it  is	 thetotal effect of all relevant factors and circumstances	thatdetermines the character of thetransaction;  and so, though we may attempt to	derive	someassistance  from decisions bearing on this point, we  cannotseek to deduce any rule from them and mechanically apply  itto the facts before us.In this connection it would be relevant to refer to  anothertest which is sometimes applied in determining the characterof  the	 transaction.	Was  the  purchase  made  with	 theintention to resell it at a profit ? It is often said that atransaction of purchase followed by resale can either be  aninvestment or an adventure in the nature of trade.  There isno middle course and no half-way house.	 This statement	 maybe  broadly true; and so some judicial decisions  apply	 thetest  of the initial intention to resell  in  distinguishingadventures  in	the  nature of trade  from  transactions  ofinvestment.    Even   in  the  application  of	 this	testdistinction  will have to be made between initial  intentionto  resell at a profit which is present but not dominant  orsole;  in  other  words, cases do  often  arise	 'Where	 thepurchaser may be willing and may intend to sell the propertypurchased at profit, but he would also intend and be willingto hold and enjoy it if a really high price is not  offered.The  intention to resell may in such cases be  coupled	withthe  intention	to hold the property.  Cases  may,  however,arise  where the purchase has been made solely	and  exclus-ively  with  the  intention to resell at a  profit  and	 thepurchaser  has	no  intention of holding  the  property	 forhimself'or otherwise enjoying or using it.  The presence  ofsuch  an intention is no doubt a relevant factor and  unlessit is offset by the presence of other factors it would raisea strong presumption that the transaction is an adventure inthe  nature  of	 trade.	 Even so,  the	presumption  is	 notconclusive;  and it is conceivable that, on considering	 allthe  facts  and circumstances in the case,  the	 court	may,despite the said initial intention, be inclined to hold thatthe transaction was not an adventure in the nature of trade.We thus come back to the same position and that is that	 thedecision about the character of a transaction in the contextcannot	be based solely on the application of any  abstract-rule, principle or test and665m  st in every case depend upon all the relevant  facts	 andcircumstances.Let  us	 now  consider some of the decisions  to  which	 ourattention  was	invited.   Normally  the  purchase  of	landrepresents investment of money in land; but where a  companyis  formed  for	 the purpose inter  alia  of  acquiring	 andreselling  mining property, and after acquiring and  workingvarious	 property, it resells the whole to a second  companyreceiving payment in fully-paid shares of latter company, itwas  held in The Californian Copper Syndicate  (Limited	 andReduced)  v.  Harris  (Surveyor	 of  Taxes)  (1)  that	 thedifference  between the purchase price and the value of	 theshares	for  which the property was exchanged  is  a  profitassessable  to income-tax.  In this case Lord Justice  Clerkhas  observed that "it is quite a well settled principle  indealing with the question of assessment of Income Tax,	thatwhere  the  owner  of an ordinary in.  vestment	 chooses  torealise	 it,  and  obtains a greater price for	it  than  heoriginally acquired it at, the enhanced price is not  profitin  the sense of Schedule D of the Income Tax Act "; and  headded  that  "	it  is equally	well  established  that	 theenhanced  value obtained from realisation or  conversion  ofsecurity  may  be so assessable where what is  done  is	 notmerely	a realisation or a change of investment but  an	 actdone  in what is truly the carrying on or carrying out of  abusiness ". This was a clear case where the company was heldto  be	carrying  on the business of purchase  and  sale  ofmining property.Where  land purchased, and subsequently developed, with	 theobject	of  making it more readily saleable, was sold  at  aprofit, the intention of the assessee was treated to be	 notto hold the land as an investment, but as a trading asset inCayzer,	 Irvine	 and  Co. Ltd. v.  Commissioners  of  InlandRevenue(2).    In  his	judgment,  Lord	 President   Normandreferred  to the large development expenditure	incurred  bythe  assessee to improve the property and observed  that  itappeared to be on the whole consistent with the idea that itwas  carrying on a trade in land rather than with  the	ideathat(1)  (1904) 5 Tax Cas. 159.(2) (1942) 24 Tax Cas. 491.84666it  was	 throughout holding it as an investment only  to  berealised  if at all when it desired to meet  some  financialneed.	In  repelling the plea that the	 transaction  showedinvestment, the Lord President added that the  Commissioners" with their knowledge and experience of these matters, havecome  to the conclusion that the intention was to hold	thisestate	not as an investment but as a trading asset and	 in,order to develop it and to market it ". It would thus appearthat the conduct of the assessee in incurring a large amountof expenditure on the development of land consisting  mainlyin the construction of roads and sewers was held to  justifythe  inference that the transaction was an adventure in	 thenature of trade, though the property purchased and sold	 wasland.In  the Commissioner's of Inland Revenue v.  Livingston	 (1)the assessees respondents were a ship repairer, a blacksmithand  a fish salesmen's employee; they purchased as  a  jointventure	 a cargo vessel with a view to converting it into  asteam-drifter  and  selling it. They were not  connected  inbusiness and they had never previously bought a ship.  Afterthe  ship was purchased, extensive repairs  and	 alterationswere  carried out by the orders of the respondents  and	 theship was then sold at a profit.	 It was held that the profitarising	 from the transaction was assessable  to  income-taxunder  Case I of Schedule D. Lord President Clyde said	thatin  deciding whether the profits in question  were  taxable,regard must be had to the character and circumstances of theparticular  venture.   " If the venture was  one  consistingsimply	in an isolated purchase of some article	 against  anexpected  rise in price and, a subsequent sale	",  observedthe Lord President, " it might be impossible to say that theventure	 was in the nature of trade ". According to him	 thetest to be applied would be whether the operations  involvedin  the transaction are of the same kind and carried  on  inthe  same way as those which are characteristic of  ordinarytrading	 in  the line of business in which the	venture	 wasmade.	If  they are, there was no reason  why	the  ventureshould not be(1), (1926) 11 Tax Cas. 538.667regarded  as in the nature of trade merely because it was  asingle	venture	 which took only three months  to  complete.Reference was then made to the steps taken ,by the assesseesto buy a secondhand vessel and to ,convert into a marketabledrifter;  and  it was stated -that the profit  made  by	 theventure arose not from the mere appreciation of the  capitalvalue  of  an  isolated	 purchase for  resale  but  from theexpenditure on the subject purchased of money laid out	uponit  for the purpose of making it marketable at a profit.   "That  ", said the Lord President, " was the very essence  oftrade  ". It was in this connection that the Lord  Presidentobserved  that the appearance of a single swallow  does	 notmake a summer.	It would thus be noticed that this  decisionwas  based substantially on the ground that after  the	shipwas  purchased	the assessees bestowed labour and  money  onconverting  it into a marketable drifter and that  imprintedupon  the  transaction the character of trade.	It  is	truethat  some  of the observations made by the  Lord  Presidentwould indicate that from the intention to resell at a profitit  would be impossible to attribute to the transaction	 thecharacter of an adventure in the nature of trade.   However,as we will presently point out, these observations have beenexplained  by  the Lord President  himself  subsequently  inRutledge  v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue (1); and it  isto this case that we will now refer.In  the case of Rutledge(2) the appellant was a	 moneylenderwho was also interested in a cinema company in 1920.   Sincethat time he had been interested ill various businesses.  Hewas in Berlin in 1920 on business connected with the  cinemacompany	 where he was offered an opportunity  of  purchasingvery  cheaply  a large quantity of paper.  He  effected	 thepurchase and within a short time after his return to Englandhe   sold  the	whole  consignment  to	one  person   at   aconsiderable  profit.	This  profit  'Was  held  liable  toassessment to income-tax, Schedule D, and to excess  profitsduty as being profit of an adventure in the nature of trade.This assessment was the subject-matter(1)  (1929) 14 Tax Cas. 490.668of  an appeal before the Court of Appeal, and on  behalf  ofthe  appellant the observations made by the  Lord  PresidentClyde  in  the	case of Livingston  (1)	 were  pressed	intoservice;  but  the Lord President did  not accept  the	pleabased  on his earlier observations because he said that	 thesaid  observations  were  intended to  show  that  a  singletransaction fell far short of constituting a dealer's trade;whereas,  in the present case, the question was whether	 thetransaction  was an adventure in the nature of	trade.	 TheLord  President agreed that mere intention is not enough  toinvest	a  transaction with the character of  trade  but  headded  that, if the purchase is made for no  purpose  exceptthat of resale at a profit, there seems little difficulty inarriving  at the conclusion that the deal was in the  natureof trade though it may be wholly insufficient to  constituteby  itself  a trade.  Then he referred to  the	illustrationwhich  he  had	cited  in his  earlier	decision  about	 thepurchase  of  a picture and observed that if a	picture	 waspurchased to embellish the purchaser's own house for a time,he  might  sell it if the anticipated  appreciation  in	 thevalue ultimately realised itself.  " In such a case ",	saysthe  Lord  President,  "  I pointed out	 that  it  might  beimpossible to affirm that the purchase and sale	 constitutedan  adventure  in-the nature of trade although,	 again,	 thecrisis	 of   judgment	 might	turn   on   the	  particularcircumstances  ".  It would thus be clear  that	 the  strongobservations  made  by	the Lord President in  the  case  ofLivingston  (1)	 must  be considered in	 the  light  of	 theclarification  made  by him in this case.  Lord	 Sands,	 whoagreed	with  the Lord President has  thus  observed:  "YourLordship in the Chair has indicated that there may be  casesof  purchase  and resale at a profit where  the	 transactioncannot be said to be in the nature of trade.  In particular,this may be the case where there is no definite intention ofreselling  when	 the  purchase is  made	 ".  This  decision,therefore,  shows that where the assessee purchased  a	verylarge  quantity	 of paper with the intention to sell  it  atprofit	the transaction was treated as an adventure  in	 thenature of trade.  It was held(1)  (1926) 11 Tax Cas. 538.669to  be	a  most	 successful adventure on  the  part  of	 theassessee  and having regard to the  circumstances  attendingthe purchase and sale it was treated as an adventure in	 thenature of trade.In  T.	Beynon & Co. Ltd. v. Ogg (1) the court	was  dealingwith the case of a company which was carrying on business ascoal  merchants,  ship	and insurance brokers  and  as	soleselling agent for various colliery companies in which lattercapacity it was a part of its duty to purchase wagons on itsown account as a speculation and -subsequently to dispose ofthem   at  a  profit.	The  assessee  contended  that	 thetransaction  of purchase and sale being an isolated one	 theprofit was in the nature of a capital profit on the sale  ofan  investment	and  should be	excluded  in  computing	 itsliability  to  income-tax.  The court held that	 the  profitrealised was made in the operation of the company's businessand  was properly included in the computation  of  company'sprofits for assessment under Schedule D. It appears that, in1914, acting as agent on behalf of two colliery , companies,the assessee had purchased two lots of wagons each of  whichconsisted of 250 wagons.  During the course of	negotiationsthe assessee, foreseeing that the cost of material and wageswas  likely to increase, determined to buy a, third  lot  of250  wagons for itself and did eventually purchase  it.	  InJuly  1915 the assessee sold this lot and made a  profit  ofpound  2,500.	The question which arose  for  decision	 waswhether	 this sum was chargeable to incometax.	 In  dealingwith the argument that as an isolated transaction the profitarising	 out  of it was not chargeable to tax,	Sankey,	 J.,observed  that	he  thought " in  most	cases  an  insolatedtransaction does not fall to be chargeable ". But he added "you  have to consider the transaction and you cannot lay  itdown as a matter of law without regard to the  circumstancesthat in this case the pound, 2,500 is not chargeable ". Thenthe  learned  judge  considered that the  number  of  wagonspurchased  was large and held that the	other  circumstancesattending  the purchase and sale of the said  wagons  showedthat this transaction was a(1)  (1918) 7 Tax Cas. 125.670transaction, and this profit was a profit " -with the resultthat  it made the operation of the assessee in	that  behalfits  business.	The learned judge' however, added a word  ofcaution	 that he did not think it desirable to lay down	 anyrule as to where the line ought to be drawn, and that it wasnot  even possible to lay down such a rule.  " But  ",	saidthe  learned  judge, " it is perfectly easy to	say  whetherCase A or Case B falls on the one side or the other ".In  the Balgownie Land Trust, Ltd. v. The  Commissioners  ofInland	Revenue	 (1) the owner of a landed  estate,  at	 hisdeath,	had left his estate to trustees with a direction  torealise.  The trustees were not successful in their  effortsto sell the estate in the market.  So they formed a  companywith   general	powers	to  deal  in  real   property'	 andtransferred  the  estate  to this company  in  exchange	 forshares	which were allotted to the beneficiaries  under	 thetrust and were, at the date of the appeal still mainly	heldby those beneficiaries or their representatives.  Soon afterits  incorporation the purchaser company made a	 substantialpurchase of some other property acquired by borrowing on thesecurity of the original estate.  The company received rentsand paid a regular dividend on its capital.  In 1921 and thefollowing  years parts of the original estate were sold	 andin 1925 the whole of the additional property was sold.	Whenthe profits realised by the sales were taxed under  ScheduleD  for	the year 1926-27, the assessee	contended  that	 thetransactions in question were not in the nature of trade andthe  profits  arising  therefrom  cannot  be  taxed.	Thiscontention  was	 negatived  by	the  General   Commissionerswhereupon  the	assessee  appealed.   Lord  President  Clydedescribed the problem raised by the assessee as one of.	 themost  familiar problems under Case I of Schedule D  and	 ob.served	that " a single plunge may be enough provided it  isshown  to the satisfaction of the Court that the  plunge  ismade  in  the waters of trade; but the sale of	a  piece  ofproperty-if  that is all that is involved in the  plunge-mayeasily	fall  short  of anything in  the  nature  of  trade.Transactions of sale are characteristic(1)  (1929) 14 Tax Cas. 684.671of  trade, but they are not necessarily distinctive  of	 it;much depends on the circumstances". Then the conduct of	 theassessee  after its incorporation was considered and it	 washeld that the purchase of the property in substance amountedto a launching forth albeit, not in a very large scale.	  Inthe  result the finding of the Commissioners  was  confirmedand the profit, Was held liable to tax.In Martin v. Lowry (1) the House of Lords was considering  acase of a wholesale agricultural machinery merchant who	 hadnever  had  any connection with the linen  trade  purchasingfrom  the  government  the whole of  its  surplus  stock  ofaeroplane linen (some 44 million yards) at a fixed price peryard.	The  contract of purchase provided in detail  as  todelivery,  and	the  payment of the  price.   The  purchaserfailed	in  his original attempt to sell the  whole  of	 thelinen  to  Belfast linen manufacturers	outright.   Then  hesought	to bring pressure on them by placing the  linen	 forsale  to  the public.  It led to  an  extensive	 advertising'campaign,  renting  of	 offices  and  engaging	 advertisingmanager,  a linen expert as adviser and a staff	 of  clerks.Sales then proceeded rapidly and soon the whole stocks	weredisposed  of.  In all 4,279 orders were received from  1,280purchasers.   Assessment  to income-tax and  excess  profitsduty  were made upon the assessee in respect of	 profits  ofthe  transaction.   It	was held that the  dealings  of	 theassessee in linen constituted the carrying on of a trade  ofwhich  the profits were chargeable to income-tax and  excessprofits duty.  One of the points raised before the House  ofLords  was  that  the assessee did not	carry  on  trade  orbusiness  but  only  engaged  in  a  single  adventure	 notinvolving trading operation.  In rejecting this	 contention,Viscount Cave, L. C., observed that " the Commissioners havefound as a fact that he did carry on trade, and they set outin  the	 Case ample material upon which they could  come  tothat  conclusion ". He added that, indeed, having regard  tothe  methods  adopted for the resale of the  linen,  to	 thenumber of operations into which the assessee entered and  tothe time occupied by(1)  [1926] 11 Tax Cas. 297.672the resale, he did not himself see how they could have	cometo  any	 other conclusion.  The other point  raised  in	 theappeal was that the profits in question did not come  withinthe  description of annual profits or ,gains but we are	 notconcerned with that point.In  F.	A.  Lindsay,  A.  E.  Woodward	and  W.	 Hiscox	  v.Commissioners of Inland Revenue (1) the appellant L, a	winemerchant,  had	on  hand a large quantity  of  American	 ryewhisky.	  He  invited  the appellants W & H  who  were	alsoengaged	 in the wine trade to join with him in a venture  ofshipping  the  whisky to the United States.  It	 was  agreedthat  W & H should contribute certain sums towards  expensesand   that   the  profits  should  be  shared	in   certainproportions.   The.  agreement was not reduced	to  writing.The   shipping	of  the	 whisky	 was  arranged	by  L	withconsultation with W & H and was carried out gradually over aperiod of two years.  From time to time W & H met L who toldthem  that the whisky had been successfully shipped  to	 theUnited	States and sold there profitably.  Subsequently	 theappellants  decided to discontinue the export of whisky	 andto  employ  the	 monies which they had	accumulated  in	 thepurchase  with	a  view	 to resale of  a  wine	business  inPortugal.  In respect of the profits made by the  appellantsfrom the sale of wine an assessment was made on them jointlyfor  1922-23.	The  Special  Commissioners  found  that   apartnership   or   joint  venture  subsisted   between	 theappellants and that the profits of the sales of whisky	wereassessable to income-tax.  The Lord President Clyde rejectedthe appellant's contention and observed that " the nature ofthe  transaction-apart from the fraudulent breaches  of	 lawwhich were inherent in it-was neither more nor less than thecommercial disposal of a quantity of rye whisky ". In  pointof   fact  the	disposal  was  not  effected  by  a   singletransaction  but  extended over a year and more; and  so  itcould  not  fall outside the sphere of trade.	This  was  aclear  case where a large number of distinctive features  oftrade were associated with the transaction.(1)  (1932) 18 Tax Cas. 43.673The transaction of the purchase and sale of whisky was againbrought	  before   the	court  for  its	 decision   in	 theCommissioners of Inland Revenue v. Fraser (1).	In this casethe  assessee,	a woodcutter, bought through  an  agent	 forresale	whisky	in bond for pound 407.	Nearly	three  yearsthereafter the whisky was sold at a profit for pound, 1,131.This  was the assessee's sole dealing in whisky.  He had  nospecial knowledge of the trade and he did not take  deliveryof  the	 whisky nor did he have it blended  and	 advertised.Even  so, it was held that the transaction was an  adventurein  the nature of trade.  It may be mentioned that when	 thematter	was first taken before the Commissioners  they	tookthe  view that an adventure in the nature of trade  had	 notbeen  carried on by the assessee, that merely an  investmenthad  been made and subsequently realised and so	 the  profitwas  not assessable to income-tax.  This view was,  however,reversed  by the First Division of the Court of Session	 andit   was  held	that  in  coming  to  the   conclusion	 theCommissioners  had misdirected themselves as to the  meaningof " being engaged in an adventure in the nature of trade ".The  Lord  President  Normand  conceded	 that  it  would  beextremely  difficult  to  hold	that  a	 single	 transactionamounted  to a trade but he added that it may be  much	lessdifficult to hold that a single transaction was an adventurein  the	 nature of trade.  " There was	much  discussion  ",observed the Lord President, " as to the criterion which thecourt  should  apply.  I doubt if it would  be	possible  toformulate  a single criterion." The  following	observationsmade  by  the  Lord  President in  this	 connection  may  beusefully quoted:"  It  is  in  general	more easy  to  hold  that  a  singletransaction entered into by an individual in the line of hisown  trade  (although not part and parcel  of  his  ordinarybusiness)  is  an adventure in the nature of trade  than  tohold  that  a  transaction entered  into  by  an  individualoutside	 the  line  of his own trade  or  occupation  is  anadventure in the nature of trade.(1)  (1942) 24 Tax Cas. 498.85674But what is a good deal more important is the nature of	 thetransaction  with reference to the commodity dealt in.	 Theindividual  who	 enters	 into a purchase of  an	 article  orcommodity  may have in view the	 resale of it  at  a profit,and  yet  it may be that that is not the  only	purpose	 forwhich  he  purchased the article or the commodity,  nor	 theonly  purpose  to  which  he might  turn  it  if  favourableopportunity  of sale does not occur.  In some of  the  casesthe purchase of a picture has been given as an illustration.An amateur may purchase a picture with a view to its  resaleat a profit, and yet he may recognise at the time or  after-wards  that  the  possession of the picture  will  give	 himaesthetic  enjoyment if he is unable ultimately, or  at	 hischosen time, to realise it at a profit.	 A man may  purchasestocks	and shares with a view to selling them at  an  earlydate  at  a  profit, but, if he does so,  he  is  purchasingsomething which is itself an investment, a potential  sourceof  revenue  to him while he holds it.	A man  may  purchaseland  with a view to realising it at a profit, but  it	alsomay yield him an income while he continues to hold it' If hecontinues  to hold it, there may be also a certain pride  ofpossession.   But  the purchaser of a large  quantity  of  acommodity  like whisky, greatly in excess of what  could  beused  by himself, his family and friends, a commodity  whichyields	no  pride of possession, which cannot be  turned  toaccount	 except by a process of realisation, I can  scarcelyconsider to be other than an adventurer in a transaction  inthe  nature of a trade; and I can find no single fact  amongthose stated by the Commissioners which in any way traversesthat view.  In my opinion the fact that the transaction	 wasnot  in	 the  way  of business	(whatever  it  was)  of	 theRespondent  in	no  way alters the  character  which  almostnecessarily  belongs  to  a  transaction  like	this.	Mostimportant of all, the actual dealings of the Respondent withthe  whisky  were  exactly of the kind that  take  place  inordinary trade."These	observations   indicate	 some	of   the   importantconsiderations which are to be borne in mind in	 determiningthe character of a single transaction.			    675We  may now refer to the decision of the House of  Lords  inLeeming	 v.  Jones (1).	 In this case the  appellant  was  amember	of a syndicate of four persons formed to acquire  anoption	over a rubber estate with a view to resell it  at  aprofit.	   The	option	was  secured  but  the	estate	 wasconsidered  too small for a resale to a company	 for  publicfloatation.   An  option over another adjoining	 estate	 wasaccordingly  secured  and it was decided to resell  the	 twoestates	 to a public company to be formed for  the  purpose.Another member of the syndicate undertook to arrange for thepromotion  of this company.  The syndicate's total  receiptsresulting  from the transactions in respect of	the  estatesamounted  to  pound 3,000 and the balance  remaining,  afterdeduction  of  certain	expenses, was  divided	between	 themembers.  The appellant was assessed to income-tax, ScheduleD, in respect of his share.  The General Commissioners	heldthat the appellant acquired the property or interest in	 theproperty in question with the sole object of turning it overagain  at a profit and that he at no time had any  intentionof holding it as an investment.	 That is why they  confirmedthe assessment.	 After the case was heard before the  King'sBench Division it was remitted to the General  Commissionersfor  a finding as to whether there was or was not a  concernin  the nature of trade.  The Commissioners then found	thatthe transaction in question was not a concern in the  natureof trade and that there was no liability to assessment.	  Itmay  be pointed out that in remitting the case for  the	 re-consideration of the General Commissioners, Rowlatt, J., hadobserved that it was quite clear that what the Commissionershad  got  to  find was whether there was a  concern  in	 thenature	of  trade and all that they had found was  that	 theproperty  was  acquired with the sole object of	 turning  itover again at a profit and without any intention of  holdingit as an investment.  " That describes ", said Rowlatt,	 J.,"  what a man does if he buys a picture that he	 sees  goingcheap  at  Christie's, because he knows that in a  month  hewill sell it again at Christie's That ", according to(1)  (1930) 15 Tax Cas. 333.676the  learned  judge, " is not carrying on trade " and  "  sowhat  the  Commissioners must do is to say, one way  or	 theother, was this, I will not say carrying on a trade, but wasit  a speculation or an adventure in the nature of trade  ".The  learned judge to doubt added that he did  not  indicatewhich  way  the finding	 ought to be, but he  commended	 theCommissioners  to consider what took place in the nature  oforganising  the	 speculation,  maturing	 the  property	 anddisposing of the property, and when they have considered allthat,  to say whether they think it was an adventure in	 thenature of trade or not.	 It is thus clear that Rowlatt,	 J.,indicated  clearly though in cautious words what he  thoughtwas  the true nature of the transaction made.  Even  so,  onreconsideration	 of the matter the Commissioners returned  afinding	 in favour of the assessee.  After the	finding	 wasreturned  Rowlatt,  J., held that he must abide by  his	 owndecision  in  Pearm  v. Miller (1) and	so  the	 appeal	 wasallowed.   The matter was then taken to the Court of  Appealwhere  the revised finding of the Commissioners was  treatedas a finding on a question of fact not open to challenge andthe point which was considered at length was whether even ifthe transaction was not an adventure in the nature of trade,could  the profit resulting from it be taxed under Case	 VI?The Master of the Rolls Lord Hanworth traced the history  ofthe dispute, mentioned how Mr. Justice Rowlatt had indicatedto the Commissioners what they had to consider in  determin-ing  the  question remitted to them and observed that "	 MrJustice Rowlatt, and I think this Court, might perhaps	havetaken the course of saying that having regard to what he hadcalled	attention to in this case, the particular facts,  oforganising  the speculation, of maturing the  property,	 andthe diligence in discovering a second property to add to thefirst, and the disposing of the property, there ought to  beand there must be a finding that it was an adventure in	 thenature	of trade; but Mr. Justice Rowlatt withheld his	handfrom so doing and I think he was right, for however stronglyone may feel as to the facts, the facts(1)  (1927) 11 Tax Cas. 610.677are  for the decision of the Commissioners ". It would	thusbe  clear  that the decision of the  Commissioners  appearedboth  to  Rowlatt,  J.,	 and  the  Court  of  Appeal  to  beerroneous.   Even so, they refused to interfere with  it  onthe ground that it was a decision on a question of fact.  Wemay,  with  respect, recall that it was in  regard  to	thisapproach that Lord Radcliffe observed in the case of Edwards(1) that " it was a pity that such a tendency should persistto  treat the findings of the Commissioners on the  questionas  to the character of the transaction as conclusive ".  Indealing	 wit  the question as to whether if Case I  did	 notapply  Case VI could apply, Lord Justice  Lawrence  observedthat  " in the case of an isolated transaction	of  purchaseand  resale  of property there is really  no  middle  courseopen.  It is either an adventure in the nature of trade,  orelse  it is simply a case of sale and resale of property  ".The  Court  of Appeal held that if the transaction  did	 notfall  in  Case.	 It was difficult to see how it	 could	fallunder Case VI.	The discussion on this part of the case	 is,however, not relevant for our purpose.	This decision of theCourt of Appeal was taken before the House of Lords and	 thequestion  debated  before the House of Lords was  about	 the-application  of Case VI to the transaction.  The  House  ofLords  affirmed	 the view taken by the Court of	 Appeal	 andheld that " Case VI was inapplicable because Case VI  neces-sarily refers to the words of Schedule D, that is to say, itmust  be a case of annual profits and gains and those  wordsagain  are ruled by the first section of the Act which	saysthat when an Act indicates that income-tax shall be  chargedfor  any  year	at any rate the tax at that  rate  shall  becharged in respect of the profits and gains according to theSchedules ". Lord Buckmaster agreed with the observations ofLord  Justice  Lawrence that there can be no  middle  courseopen  in such cases.  Viscount Dunedin, in  concurring	withthe  opinion  of  Lord Buckmaster, dealt  with	the  severalarguments  urged by the Crown but the observations  made  byhim  with regard to the last argument are relevant  for	 ourpurpose.  " The last argument of the(1)  [1956] A.C. 14; 36 Tax Cas. 207.678counsel for the Crown ", observed Viscount Dunedin, was thatthere was a finding that the respondent never meant to	holdthe land bought as an investment.  The fact that a man	doesnot  mean to hold an investment may be an item	of  evidencetending to show whether he is carrying on a trade or concernin the nature of trade in respect of his investment but	 perse   it	 leads	to no conclusion whatever  ".  According  toViscount Dunedin, recourse to Case VI ignores the fact	thatit  had been settled again and again that Case VI  does	 notsuggest	 that anything that is a profit or gain falls to  betaxed.The observations made by Viscount Dunedin were considered inthe  Commissioners  of Inland Revenue v. Reinhold  (1).	  Weought  to add that the appellant has placed strong  relianceon  this  decision.   In this case,  the  respondent  was  adirector   of	a  company  carrying  on   a   business	  ofware  house men; he bought four houses in January  1945	 andsold them at a profit in December 1947.	 He admitted that hehad  bought  the  property with a view	to  resale  and	 hadinstructed   his   agents  to  sell  whenever	a   suitableopportunity  arose.  The profits made by him on resale	wereassessed to tax.  On appeal before the General Commissionershe contended that the profit on resale was not taxable.	 TheCrown  urged  that the transaction was an adventure  in	 thenature	of  trade and that profits  arising  therefrom	werechargeable  to Ax.  The General Commissioners being  equallydivided	 allowed the appeal and discharged  the	 assessment.It was on these facts that the matter was then taken  beforethe First Division of the Court of Session and it was  urgedon  behalf  of the Crown that the initial intention  of	 theassessee clearly was to sell the property at a profit and sothe  view  taken  by the  General  Commissioners  about	 thecharacter  of the transaction was erroneous.  This  argumentwas, however, rejected and the order of discharge passed  bythe  General  Commissioners was confirmed.  When  the  Crownreferred to the observations of Lord Dunedin in the case  ofLeeming (2) which we have(1)  (1953) 34 Tax Cas. 389.(2)  (1930) 15 Tax Cas. 333.		    679already cited, Lord Carmont observed that he did not wish toread the said passage out of its context and without  regardto  the	 facts of the case then under  consideration.	ThenLord  Carmont  added that though the language used  by	LordDunedin	 " may cover the purchase of houses" it " would	 notcover  a situation in which a purchaser bought	a  commoditywhich  from G its nature can give no annual return ".  "Thiscomment of mine ", said Lord Carmont, " is just another	 wayof  saying  that certain transactions show  inherently	thatthey  are not investments but incursions into the  realm  oftrade  or adventures of that nature Then reference was	madeto  the	 fact  that the assessee  was  a  warehouse  companydirector and not a property agent or speculator and that theonly purchases of property with which he was concerned	weretwo  separated by ten years and that the first heritage	 wasacquired  without  the intention to sell, which	 only  arosefortuitously.  His Lordship then put his conclusion in	thisway: "I would therefore say that the Commissioners of InlandRevenue	 have  failed to prove and the onus is on  them	 thecase  they sought to make out". According to  Lord  Carmont,Lord Dunedin's observations do not suggest that the  initialdeclaration of intention per se leads to the conclusion thatthe transaction was in the nature of trade.  He thought thatmuch more was required to show that the assessee was engagedin  an adventure in the nature of trade than was  proved  inthe case before the court.  Lord Russell, who concurred withthis opinion, began with the observation that " prima  faciethe  difference of opinion among the  General  Commissionerssuggests that the case is a narrow one and that the onus  onthe  appellants	 of  showing that  the	transaction  was  anadventure in the nature of trade is not a light one".	LordRussell	 then  mentioned the argument of the  Lord  Advocatethat if a person buys anything with a view to sale that is atransaction  in the nature of trade because the	 purpose  ofthe  acquisition  in  the  mind of  the	 purchaser  is	all-important  and conclusive; and that the nature of the  thingpurchased and the other surrounding circumstances do not680and  cannot  operate so as to render the  transaction  otherthan an adventure in the nature of trade, and observed	thatin his opinion the argument so formulated " is too  absoluteand is not supported by the judicial pronouncements on whichit  was	 sought	 to be raised ". He  then  referred  to	 thevariety of circumstances which are or may be relevant to thedetermination of such a question; and he concluded with	 theobservation  that  the	appellants had	not  discharged	 theburden	of showing that the transaction was an adventure  inthe nature of trade.  Lord Keith also took the same view andstated	that " the facts were, in his opinion,	insufficientto  establish  that this was an adventure in the  nature  oftrade  ". This case was no doubt a case on the border  line;and  if we may say so with respect it was perhaps nearer  anadventure  in the nature of trade than otherwise.  It  wouldnot  be unreasonable to suggest that, in this case,  if	 theCommissioners	had  found  that  the  transaction  was	  anadventure  in the nature of trade, the court would  probablynot  have  interfered  with the	 said  conclusion;  but	 theCommissioners were equally divided and so the assessment hadbeen  discharged by them.  It was under these  circumstancesthat  the point about the onus of proof became a  matter  ofsubstance;  and,  as we have already pointed out,  all	tilelearned	 judges have emphasized that the onus had  not	beendischarged and that no case had been made out for  reversingthe  order  of	discharge  -passed  by	the   Commissioners.However that may be, it would, we think, be unsafe to  treatthis  case  as	laying	down  any  general  proposition	 theapplication  of which would assist the appellant before	 us.We  would also like to add that there can be no	 doubt	thatLord  Russell's criticism against the contention  raised  bythe Lord Advocate was fully justified because the contentionas raised clearly overstated the significance and effect  ofthe  initial intention.	 As we have already pointed out,  ifit  is shown that, in purchasing the commodity in  question,the  assessee was actuated by the sole intention to sell  itat a profit, that no doubt is a relevant circumstance  whichwould raise a strong presumption that the			    681purchase and subsequent sale are an adventure in the  natureof trade; but the said presumption is not conclusive and  itmay be rebutted or offset by other relevant circumstances.What  then are the relevant facts in the present case ?	 Theproperty  purchased  and  resold  is land  and	it  must  beconceded  in favour of the appellant that land is  generallythe  subject-matter of investment.  It is  contended by	 Mr.Viswanatha  Sastri  that  the four  purchases  made  by	 theappellant  represent nothing more than an investment and  ifby  resale some profit was realised that cannot impress	 thetransaction with the character of an adventure in the natureof trade.  The appellant, however, is a firm and it was	 nota part of its ordinary business to make investment in lands.Besides, when the first purchase was made it is difficult totreat  it  as a matter of investment.  The  property  was  asmall  piece  of 28-1/4 cents and it could yield  no  returnwhatever  to the purchaser.  It is clear that this  purchasewas the first step taken by the appellant in execution of  awell-considered	 plan to acquire open plots near  the  millsand the whole basis for the plan was to sell the said  landsto  the	 mills	at a profit., Just as  the  conduct  of	 thepurchaser  subsequent  to  the purchase of  a  commodity  inimproving  or  converting it so as to make it  more  readilyresaleable is a relevant factor in determining the characterof  the	 transaction,  so would his  conduct  prior  to	 thepurchase be relevant if it shows a design and a purpose.  Asand when plots adjoining the mills were available for  sale,the  appellant	carried out his plan  and  consolidated	 hisholding	 of the said plots.  The appellant is  the  managingagent  of  the	Janardana Mills and probably  it  was  firstthought	 that  purchasing  the plots in	 its  own  name	 andselling	 them to the mills may invite criticism and  so	 thefirst purchase was made by the appellant in the name of	 itsbenamidar V. G. Raja.  Apparently the appellant changed	 itsmind  and  took the subsequent sale deeds in its  own  name.The  conduct  of  the appellant in  regard  to	these  plotssubsequent to their86682purchase  clearly  shows  that	it  was	 not  interested  inobtaining  any	return from them.  No  doubt  the  appellantsought	to explain-its purpose on the ground that it  wantedto  build tenements for the employees of the mills;  but  ithad  taken  no	steps in that behalf for the  whole  of	 theperiod	during which the plots remained in  its	 possession.Besides,  it would not be easy to  assume in the case  of  afirm  like  the appellant that the acquisition of  the	openplots	could  involve	any  pride  of	possession  to	 thepurchaser.  It is really not one transaction of purchase andresale.	  It is a series of four transactions undertaken  bythe appellant in pursuance of a scheme and it was after	 theappellant had consolidated its holdings that at a convenienttime  it sold the lands to the Janardana Mills in two  lots.When  the tribunal found that, as the managing agent of	 themills,	the  appellant was in a position  to  influence	 themills  to  purchase  its  properties  its  view	 cannot	  bechallenged  as	unreasonable.	If  the	 property  had	beenpurchased  by  the appellant as a matter  of  investment  itwould  have tried either to cultivate the land, or to  buildon  it; but the appellant did neither and just	allowed	 theproperty to remain unutilised except for the net rent of Rs.80 per annum which it received from the house on one of	 theplots.	 The reason given by the appellant for the  purchaseof  the	 properties by the mills has been  rejected  by	 thetribunal; and so when the mills purchased the properties  itis  not	 shown that the sale was occasioned by	any  specialnecessity at the time.	In the circumstances of the case thetribunal was obviously right in inferring that the appellantknew  that it would be able to sell the lands to  the  millswhenever  it  thought  it profitable so	 to  do.   Thus	 theappellant purchased the four plots during two years with thesole  intention	 to sell them to the mills at a	 profit	 andthis intention raises a strong presumption in favour of	 theview taken by the tribunal.  In regard to the other relevantfacts and circumstances in the case, none of them offsets orrebuts	the presumption arising from the initial  intention;on the other hand, most of them corroborate			    683the  said  presumption.	 We must, therefore, hold  that	 theHigh  Court was right in taking the view that, on the  factsand  circumstances proved in this case, the  transaction  inquestion is an adventure in the nature of trade.The  result is the appeal fails and must be  dismissed	withcosts.				    Appeal dismissed.