PETITIONER:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,MYSORETRAVANCORE-COCHIN AND C	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE INDO MERCANTILE BANK, LIMITED(and connected appeal)DATE OF JUDGMENT:23/02/1959BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.CITATION: 1959 AIR  713		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 256 CITATOR INFO : R	    1960 SC1175	 (9) APL	    1962 SC1272	 (4) F	    1965 SC1358	 (18) F	    1967 SC 415	 (7,8) RF	    1972 SC1004	 (82) RF	    1975 SC1758	 (18) R	    1979 SC 117	 (8) R	    1985 SC 582	 (32) RF	    1989 SC1737	 (7) RF	    1992 SC   1	 (75)ACT:       Income Tax-Business Loss-Set off-Profits made in	 Travancore       State-Losses incurred outside the State-Scope of the Proviso       to  the	main  enactment-Travancore  Income-tax	Act,   1121       (Travancore  XXIII of 1121), ss. 4, 9, 13, 18, 32(1),  first       proviso-lndian Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922), ss. 3,	 4,       6, 10, 14, 24(1), first proviso.HEADNOTE:Section	 32(1) of  the	Travancore  Income-tax	Act,  whichcorresponds to S. 24(1) of the Indian Income-tax Act,  1922,provided  : " Where any assessee sustains a loss of  profitsor  gains  in any year under any of the heads  mentioned  inSection	 9 [s. 6 of the Indian Act  he shall be entitled  tohave the amount of loss set off against this income, profitsor gains under any other head in that year :Provided that where the loss sustained is a loss of  profitsor gains which would but for the loss have accrued or arisenwithin	British India or in an Indian State and would  underthe  provisions of clause (c) of sub-section (2) of  Section18  corresponding  to  s. 14 Of the Indian  Act]  have	beenexempted  from	tax, such loss shall not be set	 off  exceptagainst profits or gains accruing or arising within  BritishIndia  or in an Indian State and exempt from tax  under	 thesaid provisions ".The  assessees were companies having their head	 offices  inthe erstwhile State of Cochin with branches in the erstwhileState  of Travancore and in other places outside the  latterState.	 They made profits in Travancore State but  incurredlosses	in  Cochin  State  and other  places,  and  for	 thepurposes  of assessment to income-tax they sought to  deductthis  loss from the profits made in Travancore	State.	 TheIncome-tax  Officer  acting  under  the	 provisions  of	 theTravancore Income-tax Act, determined the assessable  incomerepresenting  only the profits made in Travancore State	 andunder  s. 32(1), first proviso of the Travancore  Income-taxAct  which corresponds to the first proviso to s.  24(1)  ofthe Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 refused to allow a deductionof  the	 losses incurred.  The assessees  claimed  that	 thebusiness			    257which they were carrying on was one and indivisible for	 thepurpose	 of determining the amount assessable to  income-taxand  that  they were entitled to a deduction of	 the  lossesincurred outside Travancore State.  The contention on behalfof  the income-tax authorities was (i) that under the  firstproviso to s. 32(1) of the Travancore Income-tax Act  lossesincurred  in  places  out- I side the  State  of  Travancorecannot	be set off against profits made in that	 State,	 (2)that  though profits and losses in the State  arising  underthe  same  head could be set off,  the	proviso,  aforesaid,affected  not only the generality of the main enactment	 butalso  introduced an addendum that where the profits  of	 thebusiness  arose in the State and the losses under  the	headbusiness  were	sustained outside that State,  those  lossescould not by virtue of the proviso be deducted from  profitsmade in the State,(3) that the proviso applied- only to	 thebead  " business in the two respective territories,  as	 thewords used therein are where the loss sustained is a loss ofprofits or gains " andthe   word   "  income  "	 is   notmentioned therein, and (4) that the word " business " in  s.13 of  the  Travancore Act corresponding to s.	10  of	theIndian Act, must mean business in Travancore State under  s.13  Of that Act and " business in British India " under	 theIndian	Act, because before 1939 income was  not  chargeableunder  the  two Acts, unless it was received or	 accrued  inTravancore  State or British India, as the case may be,	 andprofits	 and  gains  of	 business  in  territories   outsideTravancore or in an Indian State were exempted from  paymentof  income-tax in Travancore State or in British  India,  asthe case may be.Held:(i)  Under s. 24(1) of the Indian Income-tax  Act,1922  Is. 32(1) of the Travancore Income-tax Act] a set	 offcan be claimed only when the loss arises under one head	 andthe income, profits and gains against which it is sought  tobe  set off arises under a different head.  In	cases  whereprofits and losses arise under the same head they have to beadjusted against each other under the provisions Of ss. 7 to12B of the Indian Act.Arunachalam  Chettiar v. Commissioner of Income-tax,  (1936)L.R.  63  I. A. 233 and Anglo-French Textiles Co.,  Ltd.  v.Commissioner  of  Income-tax,  Madras,	[1953]	S.C.R.	448,relied on.(2)The	territory of a proviso is to carve out an  exceptionto the main enactment and exclude something which  otherwisewould have been within the section; it has to operate in thesame  field  and if the language of the	 main  enactment  isclear it cannot be used for the purpose of interpreting	 themain  enactment	 or  to	 exclude  by  implication  what	 theenactment  clearly says unless the words of the proviso	 aresuch that that is its necessary effect.Abdul  jabar  Butt  v. State of Jammu  and  Kashmir,  [1957]S.C.R. 51, Ram Narain Sons Ltd. v. Assistant Commissioner ofSales	 '     [1955]	 2    S.C.R.	483,	Madras	   &JUDGMENT:(1944) L.R. 71 I.A. 113 33258and  Corporation of the City of Toronto v.  Attorney-Generalfor Of	Canada,	 [1946] A.C. 32, relied on.Consequently, S. 24(1), first proviso, of the Indian Income-tax  Act, 1922 Is. 32(1), first proviso, of  the  TravancoreAct]  bars  the right of set off only where a  loss  in	 theIndian States under one head is sought to be set off againstprofits in British India under any other head, and does	 notapply  to profits and losses and computation  thereof  whichfall  under s. 10 of the Indian Act, corresponding to s.  13of the Travancore Act.(3)The	mere fact that the word " income " is not used	inthe  proviso  does  not justify the  construction  that	 theintention of the Legislature was to restrict the right to  aset off of profits and losses arising in Indian States	onlyto business or to modify the mode of computation under s. 10of the Indian Income-tax Act.(4)The word " business,, in s. 10 of the Indian Income-taxAct, 1922, is not confined to business in British India,  inview of the definition of " total income " and " total worldincome	" and chargeability of total income under s.  3,  Orthe  provisions	 Of s. 4 where in the case of a	 resident  "total  income " includes income, profits and gains  accruingwithin or without British India.&CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 259 and 260of 1958.Appeals by special leave from the judgment and orders  datedAugust	5, 1955, of the former Travancore Cochin High  Courtin  Income-tax	Reference Appeals Nos. 6 of 1953 and  21  of1954.K.N.  Rajagopala Sastri, R. H. Dhebar and D.  Gupta,  forthe appellant.G.   B. Pai and Sardar Bahadur, for the respondent in C.     A.No. 259 of 1959.A.   V.	  Viswanatha   Sastri  and  Naunit  Lal,   for	 therespondents in C. A. No. 260 of 1958.1959.  February 23.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyKAPUR, J.-These two appeals by special leave raise a  commonquestion  of  law,  and that  is,  whether  business  lossesincurred  in the erstwhile State of Cochin could, under	 theIncome-tax  Act	 of  Travancore,  be  set  off	against	 thebusiness profits made in the erstwhile State of	 Travancore.In  Appeal No. 260/ 58 a further question arose	 whether  inthe case of			    259that  assessee	the  year  ending June	30,  1949,  was	 theprevious  year	for  the assessment year  1950-51  with	 theresult	that it should be assessed under the Indian  Income-tax Act of 1922.  But this question was not answered by	 theHigh  Court  which confined itself to  answering  the  firstquestion  which	 was  common  to  both	the  appeals.	 Theappellant before us in both the appeals is the	Commissionerof Income-tax and the respondents are the two assessees,  inone  case  a Bank and the other a private  limited  company.The  main  argument  has been confined to  the	question  ofapplicability  of  s. 32(1) and the first  proviso  to	thatsection of the Travancore Income-tax Act (hereinafter calledthe Travancore Act).In C. A. No. 259/58 the assessee is a public limited companyincorporated  in the State of Cochin with branches  in	thatState as well as in what was British India and in TravancoreState.	 It filed its incometax return showing an income  ofRs.  11,872 for the assessment year 1948-49, its  accountingyear  being  the  previous calendar  year.   The  Income-taxOfficer	 determined its assessable income to be	 Rs.  90,947representing only the profit it made in Travancore State andunder s. 32(1) proviso (1) of the Travancore Act he  refuseda  deduction  of  Rs. 79,275 shown  as	loss  from  branchessituate	 outside the State of Travancore, in  British  Indiaand  other  Indian  States.  The assessee's  appeal  to	 theIncome-tax  Commissioner was unsuccessful but the  AppellateTribunal  held	that the banking business  of  the  assesseebeing one and indivisible for the purpose of determining theamount	assessable to income-tax it was entitled  to  deductthe  losses  incurred  outside	Travancore  State  from	 theprofits accruing and arising in that State.  At the instanceof the Commissioner of Income-tax the following question wasreferred to the High Court of Travancore-Cochin:-Is  the aforesaid sum of Rs. 79,275 a loss of  the  assesseearising	 outside  the Travancore State for  purpose  of	 thefirst proviso to section 32(1) of the Travancore  Income-taxAct ? "This question was slightly modified by the High Court260which after referring to several decided cases answered	 thequestion in favour of the assessee.In  C. A. 260/58 the assessee is a private  limited  companywith  its registered office in the former Cochin State.	  Itwas carrying on business at its head office in Cochin  Stateand  it also carried on business in -Travancore State.	 Theassessment was made under the Travancore Act and relates  tothe previous year ending June 30, 1949, the assessment	yearbeing 1950-51. The assesse made a profit in Travancore Stateand  incurred  a loss in the State of Cochin and  sought  todeduct	this loss from the profit of Travancore	 State	thusshowing a net profit of Rs. 2,643.  This was not allowed  bythe  Income-tax	 Officer  and  on  appeal  this	 order	 wasconfirmed  by  the Appellate  Assistant	 Commissioner.	 TheAppellate  Tribunal also did not accept the  submissions  ofthe  assessee  and upheld the order of	assessment.   On  anapplication  of	 the  assessee the  following  question	 wasreferred to the High Court of Travancore-Cochin:-" Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the	casethe loss of Rs. 27,709 arising in Cochin State could be	 setoff  against the profit of Rs. 38,998 arising in  TravancoreState  ? "and   was   answered  in  favour  of  the   assessee.	 TheCommissioner has come up in appeal pursuant to special leaveagainst both these judgments.It  may	 be  stated  that  the	relevant  sections  of	 theTravancore Act which govern the two appeals are	 identicallyworded with those of the Indian Incometax Act of 1922 (to becalled	the Indian Act).  The corresponding sections are  asfollows:Headings		  Sections in	   Section in			  Travancore Act.  Indian Act.Application of the Act	       4	       4Head of income charge-able to income-tax	       9	       6Business		      13	      10Exemptions of a gene-ral nature		      18	      14Set off of loss in com-puting aggregate in-come			      32	      24261It  is only necessary to set out s. 32(1) of the  TravancoreAct and the proviso which correspond to s. 24(1) and proviso(i)  of	 the  Indian Act and which  are	 necessary  for	 thedecision of the appeals before us:S.32(1)	 " Where any assessee sustains a loss of  profitsor  gains  in any year under any of the heads  mentioned  inSection	 9  (Section  6) he shall be entitled  to  have	 theamount of loss set off against this income, profits or gainsunder any other head in that year:Provided that where the loss sustained is a loss of  profitsor gains which would but for the loss have accrued or arisenwithin	British India or in an Indian State and would  underthe  provisions of clause (e) of sub-section (2) of  Section18  (Section 14(2)(c) ), have been exempted from  tax,	suchloss  shall not be set off except against profits  or  gainsaccruing  or  arising within British India or in  an  IndianState  and  exempt  from tax under the	said  provisions  ".(Sections in brackets are the corresponding sections of	 theIndian Act).So  the only difference between the two sections is that  inthe  proviso  to s. 24(1) of the Indian Act instead  of	 thewords  "an Indian State" the words "British India or  in  anIndian	State  " have to be substituted.  The  question	 fordecision  is  as  to how this proviso is  to  be  construed.Ordinarily  the	 effect	 of an	excepting  or  a  qualifyingproviso is to carve something out of the preceding enactmentor  to qualify something enacted therein which but  for	 theproviso	 would	be  in	it and	such  a	 proviso  cannot  beconstrued as enlarging the scope of an enactment when it canbe  fairly and properly construed without attributing to  itthat  effect.	Corporation  of	 the  City  of	Toronto	  v.Attorney-General for Canada (1).  But it has been held	thata  section  framed as a proviso to a preceding	section	 maysometimes  contain  matter  which is in	 substance  a  freshenactment  adding and not merely qualifying that which	goesbefore.	 Rhondda Urban Council v. Taff Vale Railway (2).It was argued on behalf of the Revenue that this(1) [1946] A.C. 32, 37.(2) [1909] A.C. 253, 258.262proviso	 falls in the second category and takes the  presentcases  out of s. 32(1) of the Travancore Act and  imposes  aliability  to  tax on the profits or gains arising  in	thatState,	disallowing  a deduction of the	 losses	 in  BritishIndia  and  in States other than  Travancore  State  againstprofits	 made in Travancore State: Rhondda Urban Council  v.Taff  Vale Railway (1) and Harrison v. Ward (2).  It may  bementioned that in the majority of cases decided in India theproviso to s. 24(1) of the Indian Act has been construed  ina  manner contrary to the submissions made on behalf of	 theRevenue.In  order to determine the true meaning of the words of	 theproviso	 it  is	 necessary and convenient to  refer  to	 thescheme of the Indian Act which is admitted by the parties tobe same as that of the Travancore Act.	From 1922 to 1939 inorder  to  be taxable income, profits and gains	 had  to  bereceived  or  had to accrue in British India.  In  1939	 theidea  of  'total  world	 income'  was  introduced  and	 thedefinition  of	'total income' was modified  by	 the  IndianIncome-tax  (Amendment)	 Act (VII of 1939) which  also	madeconsequential  changes in other sections of the Indian	Act.Under s. 2(15) of the Act total income' was defined to	meanthe  total amount of income, profits and gains	computed  inthe manner laid down in that Act.  The 'total world  income'was  defined  as  including all income,	 profits  and  gainswherever accruing or arising except income to which the	 Actdid not apply.	Section 3 provided for the charge of income-tax  in	 respect of the total income of the  previous  year.Under  s.  4 the total income of any previous  year  of	 anyperson	who  was resident included all income,	profits	 andgains from whatever source derived but (i) it must accrue orarise to him during the year in British India or (ii) accrueor arise to him without British India during such year.	 Thethird clause is not necessary for this appeal.	Section 4(3)provided  what	income,	 profits or gains  were	 not  to  beincluded  in the total income of the person receiving  them.Both under the Indian Act and under the Travancore Act(1) [1909] A.C. 253, 258.		   (2) [1922] 1 Ch- 517.263there were six heads of income chargeable to income tax.  Inthe Indian Act they were set out in s. 6 as follows:-S. 6 " Save as otherwise provided by this Act the  followingheads  of income, profits and gains shall be  chargeable  toincome-tax in the manner hereinafter appearing, namely:-(iv) Profits and gains of business, profession or vocation. Then  followed	 ss.  7 to 12B laying  down  the  method  ofcomputation of the income arising from each head.In  1941  during  the war an exemption	was  given  for	 thepurpose of taxability to any income, profits or gains  whichaccrued	 or arose within what was then called Indian  Statesbut  which were not received or brought into British  India.This  was done by s. 8 of the Indian Income-tax	 (Amendment)Act,  1941 (XXIII of 1941) by which another clause  (c)	 wasadded to s.    14(2) which was as follows:"    The tax shall not be payable by an assessee:(c)in respect of any income, profits or gains accruing	orarising to him within (an Indian State) unless such  income,profits or gains are received or deemed to be received in orare brought into the Indian State in the previous year by oron  behalf of the assessee or are assessable  under  section12B or section 42".Thus income, profits or gains arising under any of the headsunder s. 6 became exempted in circumstances  above-mentionedbut  the  effect of this exemption was not to  exclude	suchincome of an assessee for all purposes as was the case unders.  4(3).  Such sums were to be taken,into account  for	 thepurpose	 of determining the rate -under s. 16 of the  IndianAct.   A further consequential change was made in, s.  24(1)by264the addition of the first proviso and a similar addition wasmade  in  the Travancore Act to s. 32(1) which	has  alreadybeen  quoted  and it is this proviso which is  the  subject-matter of controversy between the parties.  A review of	 thevarious sections and enactments shows that during  1922-1939the tax was leviable on income, profits and gains arising oraccruing to an assessee in British India.  In 1939 the totalincome	became taxable subject to exclusions in sub-s. 3  ofs.  4 and the chargeability of the 'total income'  was	laiddown  in  s.  3. In 1941 income, profits or  gains  which  aresident  made	in  an	Indian State  and  in  the  case  ofTravancore  State income, profits or gains which a  residentmade  in British India or other Indian States were  exemptedfrom  payment of income-tax unless received or brought	intothe  respective	 territories, but this	income,	 profits  orgains had to be included for the purpose of calculating	 therate.Now  we	 come to s. 24(1).  This section was  introduced  in1922 before which under the Indian Act of 1918 a loss  underone head of income could not be set off against income underanother	 head,	the taxability of income arising  from	eachhead  being separate.  By the addition of this	section	 theloss  under one head of profits or gains was allowed  to  beset  off against income, profits and gains under  any  otherbead in any assessment year.  There was also a provision  ins.  24(2) for carrying over the loss after such set off	 hadbeen  effected.	 Section 24(1) became the subject matter  ofcontroversy in the courts.  The Privy Council in ArunachalamChettiar  v.  Commissioner of Income-tax(1) held  that	thissection	 was  meant for a set off of profits  arising  underdifferent  heads and not where profits and losses had to  beadjusted  if  they arose under the same	 head.	 Sir  GeorgeRankin said at p. 241" In their Lordships' opinion, whether a firm is  registeredor unregistered, partnership does not obstruct or defeat theright of a partner to an adjustment on account of his  shareof  loss in the firm, whether the set off be  against  otherprofits under the same(1)  (1936) L.R. 63 I.A. 233265head  of  income within the meaning of s. 6 of	the  Act  orunder a different head (in which case only need recourse  behad to s. 24, sub-s. 1) ".Thus  the  Privy Council emphasised that the  object  of  s.24(1)  was  to	allow a set off of  profits  against  lossesarising	 under different heads and Only in such cases  couldrecourse  be  had to s. 24(1).	In cases where	profits	 andlosses	arose  under the same head they had to	be  adjustedagainst each other.  This Court in Anglo-French Textiles Co.Ltd.   v.  Commissioner	 of  Incometax,	 Madras	 (1)   againemphasised that distinction in the following words:-"  Next, a, set off under section 24(1) can only be  claimedwhen the loss arises under one head and the profits  againstwhich  it is sought to be set off arises under	a  differenthead.  When the two arise under the same head, of course theloss  can be deducted but that is done under section 10	 andnot under section 24(1) (Per Bose, J.)Indeed	it is not disputed that when profit and	 loss  aroseunder  the  same head in any place which was not  an  IndianState  recourse had to be had to the provisions of ss. 7  to12B  and not to any other section.  But it was contended  onbehalf of the Revenue that the first proviso to s. 24(1)  ofthe Indian Act not only affected the generality of the	mainenactment  but	also introduced an addendum that  where	 theprofits	 of the business arose in what was British India  inthe  case of the Indian Act or what was Travancore State  inthe case of the Travancore Act and the losses under the headbusiness were sustained in an Indian State or in the  lattercase  in  any  other Indian State or  British  India,  theselosses	could not by virtue of the proviso be deducted	fromprofits	 made  in British India or Travancore State  as	 thecase  may be.  They could only be adjusted  against  profitsarising	 in  an Indian State or in the	case  of  TravancoreState  in British India or another Indian State.   Thus	 theproviso, it was contended, was a modification of the  methodof computation under s. 10(2) of the Indian Act for(1)[1953] S.C.R. 448, 453.34266determining  profits  and  gains  of  the  business  of	 anyresident.   We should be averse to lend any  countenance  tosuch a mode of construing a proviso unless the language usedexpressly   or	by  necessary  intendment  leads   to	thatconclusion.   The  proper function of a proviso is  that  itqualifies the generality of the main enactment, by providingan  exception  and  taking out as it  were,  from  the	mainenactment,  a portion which, but for the proviso would	fallwithin the main enactment.  Ordinarily it is foreign to	 theproper	function  of  a	 proviso to  read  it  as  providingsomething  by way of an addendum or dealing with  a  subjectwhich  is  foreign  to	the  main  enactment.	"  It  is  afundamental  rule  of construction that a  proviso  must  beconsidered with relation to the principal matter to which itstands	as  proviso  ".	 Therefore it  is  to  be  construedharmoniously  with  the main enactment (Per Das, C.  J.)  inAbdul Jabar Butt v. State of Jammu & Kashmir (1).  Bhagwati,J.,  in	 Ram Narain Sons Ltd. v. Assistant  Commissioner  ofSales Tax (2) said:" It is a cardinal rule of interpretation that a proviso  toa particular provision of a statute only embraces the  fieldwhich  is covered by the main provision.  It carves  out  anexception to the main provision to which it has been enactedas a proviso and to no other ".Lord Macmillan in Madras & Southern Mahratta Railway Co.  v.Bezwada	 Municipality (3) laid down the sphere of a  provisoas follows :-"  The	proper function of a proviso is to except  and	dealwith  a case which would otherwise fall within	the  generallanguage  of the main enactment, and its effect is  confinedto  that case.	Where, as in the present case, the  languageof  the main enactment is clear and unambiguous,  a  provisocan  have no repercussion on the interpretation of the	mainenactment,  so	as to exclude from it  by  implication	whatclearly falls within its express terms ".The territory of a proviso therefore is to carve out an(1) [1957] S.C.R. 51. 59-  (2) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 483, 493.(3) (1944) L.R. 71 I.A. 113, 122.267exception to the main enactment and exclude something  whichotherwise  would  have been within the section.	 It  has  tooperate	 in the same field and if the language of  the	mainenactment  is  clear it cannot be used for  the	 purpose  ofinterpreting the main enactment or to exclude by implicationwhat  the  enactment clearly says unless the  words  of	 theproviso	 are such that that is its necessary  effect.  (Videalso Corporation of The City of Toronto v.  Attorney-Generalfor Canada) (1).In the proviso in dispute there are no positive words  whichwould	support	  an  interpretation  in   favour   of	 thedisintegration	of  the	 head " business "  and	 compel	 theapplication  of	 the  proviso to the  same  head,  speciallykeeping	 in  view the object of the main  section,  i.e.  s.24(1)  which was to set off loss of profits or	gains  underone  head against income, profits or gains under  any  otherhead.It  was	 then submitted that in the proviso the	 words	usedwere  "	 where the loss sustained is a loss  of	 profits  orgains  " and therefore it necessarily applied to the head  "business  " in the two respective territories.	But  in	 themain enactment itself, i. e., s. 24(1) of the Indian Act thewords used are " a loss of profits or gains ". The mere factthat  the word " income " is not used does not	justify	 theconstruction.  that the intention of the Legislature was  torestrict the set off of profits and losses arising in IndianStates only to business or to modify the mode of computationunder s. 10 of the Indian Act.	That the use of these  wordsdoes not circumscribe the proviso to business alone is shownby  the difference in the language of the proviso to  sub_s.(2) of s. 24 of the Indian Act:-S. 24 (2)..................................................."    provided that(a)  where the loss sustained is a loss of profits and gainsof a business or vocation to which the first proviso to sub-section (1) is applicable, and the profits and gains of thatbusiness,  profession or vocation are, under the  provisionsof clause (c) of sub-section (2) of section 14, exempt	fromtax, such loss shall not be set(1)[1946] A.C. 32, 37.268off except against profits and gains accruing or arising  in(an  Indian  State) from the same  business,  profession  orvocation and exempt from tax under the said provisions ".That  proviso  shows that where the  Legislature  wanted  torestrict  the losses and profits or gains to business  alonethey  specifically said so.  It is significant that  in	 ss.2(13) and (5) of the Indian Act of 1918 corresponding to ss.2(15)  and  6 of the Indian Act of 1922 the word  used	was"income " which in the latter Act was expanded into " income,profits	 and  gains  ".	 The  Privy  Council  said  in	 theCommissioner of Income-tax, v. Shaw Wallace and Co. (1) that,the  object of the Indian Act is to tax " income "  a	termwhich  it does not define.  It is expanded no doubt  into  "income,	 profits  and gains " but the expansion	 is  more  amatter of words than of substance ". It was also so said  inCommissioner  of  Income-tax, Bengal v. Mercantile  Bank  ofIndia Ltd. (2).	 See also London County Council v. Attorney-General (3).  Thus the mere use of the words loss of profitsor gains to be, set off against profits and gains would	 notbe  sufficient to restrict the scope of the proviso  to	 theprofits	 and losses arising under the head business  in	 thetwo territories, i. e., British India and the Indian States.On  behalf of the Revenue an alternate argument	 was  raisedfor  which  support  was sought from two  decisions  of	 theAllahabad High Court in In Re: Mishrimal Gulabchand (4)	 andRaghunath Parshad v. Commissioner of Income-tax (5).   Thereit was held that s. 10 of the Indian Act had to be read withs.  14(2)  (e)	and if profits could not be  added  for	 thepurposes of total income' losses sustained also could not bededucted.  Counsel for the Revenue did not go to this extentthat  because  profits	were exempted losses  could  not  bededucted;  his argument was that because before 1939  incomewas  not  chargeable unless it was received  or	 accrued  inBritish	 India therefore business in s. 10 could  only	meanbusiness in British India.  But this(1)(1932) L. R. 59 I. A. 206, 212.(3)[1901] A.C. 26.(2)(1936) L.R. 63 I.A. 457.(4)[1950] 18 I.T.R. 75.(5) [1955] 28 I.T.R. 45.269argument  does	not  take note of the  definition  of  totalincome total world income' and chargeability of total incomeunder s. 3 or the provisions of s. 4 where in the case of  aresident  'total income' includes income, profits and  gainsaccruing  within or without I British India.   Therefore  tosay  that business in s. 10 means business in British  Indiaor  business  the profits or gains of which are	 taxable  inBritish India is to ignore the definitions and ss. 3, 4	 and6. Section 10 of the Indian Act does not distinguish betweenbusiness in British India and business in an Indian State orso  divide  business.	But then it was	 said  that  as	 theprofits	 or  gains  of	business in  an	 Indian	 State	wereexempted from payment of tax in British India business in s.10  must  mean	business in British India.   That  would  bestraining  the	language  of s.	 10  and  would	 necessitateaddition  of  words  in s. 10 which are	 not  there  in	 thesection.In the course of argument a number of cases of the,  variousHigh   Courts  were  cited  and	 criticised.   We  find	  itunnecessary to refer to them because we have indicated abovewhat is the correct sphere of a proviso and what proviso (i)to s. 24(1) means.In our view the question referred to the High Court which iscommon to the two appeals was rightly answered in favour  ofthe assessee.  As to the second question in Civil Appeal No.260  of 1958 we do not propose to say anything.	 It will  beopen  to the assessee in that appeal to take such  steps  inregard to that question as it may be advised.In the result the appeals fail and are dismissed with costs.Appeals dismissed.270