PETITIONER:FRUIT AND VEGETABLE MERCHANTS UNION	Vs.RESPONDENT:DELHI IMPROVEMENT TRUSTDATE OF JUDGMENT:06/11/1956BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.JAGANNADHADAS, B.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1957 AIR  344		  1957 SCR    1ACT:Ejectment-Market constructed by Improvement Trust on Govern-ment  land with Government money Whether  market  GovernmentPremises-Whether lessee of market Protected from  ejectment-Connotation of the word 'vest'-Delhi and Ajmer Rent  ControlAct, (XXXVIII Of 1952), s. 3(a)-U.  P. Town Improvement Act,(U.  P. Act VIII of 1919)     as   extended  to	 Delhi,	  s.54A(2).HEADNOTE:Under  an  agreement  the Government  placed  certain  landsbelonging to it at the disposal of the Improvement Trust forthe  construction  of a market.	 The Trust  constructed	 themarket with funds advanced by the Government by way of	loanat  interest.	Under the agreement the Trust had to  pay  acertain	 fixed	sum by way of revenue on the  property;	 theincome	from the market had to be applied to the payment  ofinterest  on  the money advanced by Government, and  to	 thepayment of expenses for the management of the market and thesurplus	 had to be placed at the disposal of, Government  tobe  spent  according to its directions.	 The lessee  of	 themarket from the Trust filed a suit for a declaration that itwas protected from ejectment by the provisions of the  Delhiand Ajmer Rent Control Act.  It was contended by the  lesseethat  the market was the property of the Trust to which	 theAct applied.  It was further contended by the lessee relyingupon the language of s. 54A(2) of the U. P. Town ImprovementAct,  that the market vested in the Trust for  otherwise  itcould  not  upon  transfer by the Trust vest  in  the  ChiefCommissioner as provided by this section.Held,  that upon a proper construction of the terms  of	 theagreement  between the Trust and the Government,  the  Trustwas  in the position of a statutory agent of the  Governmentand  that  the market was Government premises to  which	 theprovisions of the Delhi and Ajmer Rent Control Act were	 notapplicable  by virtue Of s. 3(a).thereof,  and	consequentlythe lessee was liable to ejectment upon termination. of	 theperiod of the lease.The word 'vest' has not got a fixed connotation, meaning  inall  cases  that  the property is owned	 by  the  person  orauthority in whom it vests.  It may vest in title, or it mayvest in possession or it may vest in a limited sense.2JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 32 of 1955. Appeal	 from the judgment and decree dated May 5, 1954,  ofthe  High  Court of Punjab at Chandigarh  in  Regular  FirstAppeal No. 115 of 1953 arising out of the decree dated -June6,  1953, of the Court of the Subordinate Judge, 1st  Class,Delhi, in suit No. 26 of 1953.Dewan Chaman Lal and Ratan Lal Chawla, for the appellant.M.   C. Setalvad Attorney-General for India, Porus A.  Mehtaand R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1956.	November 6. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredby SINHA J.-The main question for determination in this appealfrom the concurrent decisions of the courts below is whetherthe Delhi and Ajmer Rent Control Act, XXXVIII of 1952 (whichhereinafter  will  be  referred to as the  Control  Act)  isapplicable  to the premises in question.  The  courts  belowhave  come to the conclusion that in view of the  provisionssection	 3(a) of the Control Act the market called  the	 NewFruit  and Vegetable Market, Subzimandi, under the  adminis-tration the respondent, the Delhi Improvement Trust,  (whichhereinafter will be referred to as the Trust) is  Governmentproperty  to  which  the  provisions  of  the  Act  are	 notattracted.  This appeal has been brought to this Court on  acertificate  granted by the High Court of Judicature of	 theState  of  Punjab  that	 the  case  involved  a	 substantialquestion of law as to the legal status of the respondent visa vis the Government.The sequence of events leading up to the institution of	 thesuit  by the appellant " The Fruit and	Vegetable  MerchantsUnion,	Su  bzimandi " a registered body  under	 the  IndianTrade Unions Act, giving rise to this appeal may shortly  bestated as follows:By an agreement dated, March 31, 1937, (Exhibit D-5) betweenthe  Secretary of State for India in Council and  the  DelhiImprovement  Trust, which will have to be set out in  detailhereinafter and the construction of3which is the main point in controversy between the  parties,a   certain  area  of  the  land  admittedly  belonging	  toGovernment was placed at the disposal of the Trust for the "orderly expansion of Delhi under the supervision of a singleauthority.   " The said property was compendiously called  "the  Nazul Estate.  " By a letter dated May 1/2,  1939	(notexhibited  but	filed  in the High Court  at  the  appellatestage)	the  Chairman of the Trust forwarded a copy  of	 theresolution  No. 551 dated April 24,1939, (Exhibit  D-15)  tothe  Chief Commissioner of Delhi.  The resolution  sets	 outthe scheme for the construction of the new Subzimandi  FruitMarket	on  a gross area of 10.87  acres  including  certainlands  which  till  then did not vest  in  the	Trust.	 TheChairman asked for administrative sanction of the Governmentof India to place the additional area at the disposal of theTrust  on  the same terms as those applicable to  the  NazulEstate	aforesaid  held under the agreement, Ex.  D-5.	 Theresolution aforesaid sets out the object and history of	 thescheme.	  It  contains	the  categorical  statement  that  "Government  is	the owner of all the land  included  in	 thescheme.	  The position according to the revenue	 records  isgiven in the statement on the next page.  " The scheme	thensets  out  in  great detail the	 several  structures  to  beconstructed  and  the, profit and loss figures.	  Under	 theheading	 "  Computation	 of  revenue  surplus  "  occur	 thefollowing  significant statements very much relied  upon  bythe appellant:-"The  revenue surplus of Rs. 4,530/- is made up as  follows;and is based on the recommendation that the Trust shall	 ownand maintain the market.Under  the  heading " Future Jurisdiction  "  the  followingsignificant passage occurs:- At  this  stage, if the suggestion is	accepted  that	the,Trust  should  own and run the market at least until  it  isfirmly established, and in view of the fact that  Governmentare  -the  sole	 owners	 of  the  land,	 no  difficulty	  isanticipated  due to divided territorial jurisdiction of	 thetwo local authorities and no change is proposed.4The  letter  enclosing	the  resolution	 of  the  Trust	  asaforesaid  contains  a summary of the scheme, a	 portion  ofwhich is as follows:"  An  estimated capital expenditure of Rs.  4.73  lakhs  isinvolved.   On	this  capital expenditure there	 will  be  acapital	 deficit of Rs. 4.20 lakhs and a  recurring  revenuesurplus	 of  Rs.  4,530.   This	 financial  result   assumesownership  and	management of the market by the	 Trust,	 andtakes into account all charges on maintenance and day-to-daymanagement which would otherwise fall to a local body.	 Thescheme involves no acquisition of land, but assumes transferfree of charge of an area of 10.87 acres of Government land,all of which except for 1,510 square yards, falls within thelimits of the Civil Lines     Notified	 Area	 Committee."(Underlined by us).In  answer to this communication from the Trust,  the  ChiefCommissioner sent the letter (Ex.  D-8) dated May 13,  1939,sanctioning under s. 22-A of the Trust Law the scheme of the"  New	Fruit  and Vegetable Market "  as  proposed  in	 theresolution  aforesaid at a cost not exceeding Rs.  4,73,186.The  sanction  is in terms made subject to the	remarks	 (1)that "the whole of the land required for the construction ofthe new	  market  is the property of the Government  ",	 and(2)  that "the trust will administer the new market on itscompletion."  It  will	thus  appear  that  it	was  clearlyunderstood  that  the  land on which the market	 was  to  beconstructed  would  continue  to  be  the  property  of	 theGovernment in modification of the proposal made by the Trustas aforesaid, the Trust only being vested with the power  toadminister the new market.On  receipt  of	 the  letter aforesaid	of  the	 Chief	Com-missioner, the Chairman of the Trust requested the former toobtain	the orders of the Government of India to  place	 theadditional  land required for the market at the disposal  ofthe  Trust  under  s.  54-A of	the  United  Provinces	TownImprovement  Act, VIII of 1919, (which will  hereinafter  bereferred  to  as  the Improvement Act) as  extended  to	 theProvince  of Delhi, "on the same terms applicable  to  otherNazul Estate held under the agreement between the Trust	 andthe Government of India" (Ex.  D-7).  By his letter dated5August 10, 1939, (Ex..D-6) the Chief Commissioner  forwardedthe  orders dated June 21, 1939, of the Government of  Indiaagreeing to the proposal aforesaid of the, Trust placing theadditional area at the disposal of the Trust on the originalterms  aforesaid.  This is the genesis of the New Fruit	 andVegetable  Market,  Subzimandi, which  hereinafter  will  bereferred  to as the Market, for a period of six	 years	witheffect	from May 25, 1942, at an annual rent- of Rs.  35,000rising	every year by Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 45,000 in respect  ofthe sixth year of the lease.  In anticipation of the  termi-nation	of the lease period aforesaid the  Trust  advertisedthe  auction  of the market for a  fresh  settlement.	Thatoccasioned  the	 suit  for an injunction  by  the  plaintiffagainst	 the  Trust in the Court of the	 Senior	 SubordinateJudge  of  Delhi, instituted on March 18, 1948.	  The  Courtgranted the plaintiff an interim injunction restraining	 thedefendant  from putting the market to auction.	The said  exparte  order of injunction was contested by the	 Trust	withthe  result that the trial Court dissolved that	 injunction.The plaintiff carried an appeal to the High Court of  Punjabat  Simla.  During the pendency of the appeal  a  settlementwas arrived at between the parties and the plaintiff's offerof Rs. 1,50,000	 as annual rent of the market on the  expiryof the lease was accepted by the Trust.	 This settlement  isevidenced by the resolution of the Trust dated February	 24,1949  (Ex.  D-13).  In pursuance of that settlement a  freshlease was executed.  By the indenture(Ex.D-4)dated April 22,1949, the plaintiff was granted a fresh lease for the periodMay  25, 1948, to March 31, 1950, at an annual rent  of	 Rs.1,50,000.   One	 of  the terms of the'	lease,	which  is  aregistered document, was-"  That	 the lessee shall on expiry of the lease or  on	 itsdetermination by the lessor, vacate the premises and deliverits peaceful possession to the lessor.	If the lessee  failsto  do	so,  he shall be liable to pay double  the  rent  asliquidated damages for the unauthorised period of occupationtill such time as he vacates it or he is ejected by  processof law."Paragraph  22  of  the	indenture  aforesaid  contains	 thefollowing important aidmission:-6that  both the lessor and lessee agree that the premises  indispute	 are owned by the Government and the  provisions  ofthe  Delhi  Ajmer Merwara Rent.	 Control Act (1947)  do	 notapply to the same."The   effect   of  this	 admission  is	also  one   of	 thecontroversies  between	the  parties and shall	have  to  beadverted to later.It  appears  that during the pendency of  the  second  leaseaforesaid, negotiations had started between the parties	 forextension of the period of the lease.  The plaintiff made anoffer of a fresh lease for a further period of five years atan  annual rent of rupees two lakhs.  But the Trust  by	 itsresolution  dated May 25, 1950, (Ex.  D-12) aoreed  only  toextend the period by two years " on the existing conditions,subject to enhancement of rent to Rs. 2 lakhs per year." Theplaintiff's  case in the plaint is that these onerous  termssuccessively enhancing the rent to Rs. 2 lakhs per year wereagreed	to by it as it had no other alternative in  view  ofthe  plaintiff's  need.	 The plaintiff has been	 paying	 theenhanced  rent	of  Rs.	 2 lakhs per year  in  view  of	 theresolution  aforesaid  of  the Trust but has  all  the	samestarted	 proceedings  under s. 8. of the  Control  Act,	 forfixation  of  standard rent in respect of the  market.	 TheTrust got an advertisement inserted in the Hindustan  Times,New  Delhi,  dated March 5, 1953, inviting tenders  for	 thelease  of the market for a period of three years from  April1,  1953.   The plaintiff's case in the plaint is  that	 thetenancy	 in favour of the plaintiff still subsisted and	 hadnot  been terminated in accordance with law.  That  was	 thecause  of action for the plaintiff to institute the  presentsuit on March 9, 1953.	The plaintiff's prayer in the plaintis that a decree for a permanent injunction may be passed infavour	of  the	 plaintiff restraining	the  defendant	fromevicting the plaintiff from the market.The suit was contested by the Trust on the allegations	thatthe  market  had been constructed on Nazul  land  under	 theauthority  of  the Delhi State	Government  with  Governmentfunds, that the market was Government property and was	onlybeing managed by the defendant on behalf of the	 Government,that the7Control Act by virtue of s. 3 (a) thereof was not applicableto the premises in question and that therefore the plaintiffwas  liable  to	 be ejected as the term	 of  its  lease	 hadexpired.   Reliance  was  also	placed	on  behalf  of	 thedefendant  on  the  provisions of  the	Government  Premises(Eviction) Act, XXVII of 1950, read with the  Requisitioningand Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, XXX of 1952.On  those pleadings a number of issues were  joined  betweenthe parties of which the most important is issue No. 1-" Whether the property in dispute belongs to the  Governmentwithin the meaning of s. 3 (a) of the Rent Control Act, 1952?"Both  the  courts  below have answered	that  issue  in	 theaffirmative,  that  is to say, in favour of  the  defendant.The   plaintiff	 prayed	 for  and  obtained  the   necessarycertificate  from  the	High Court that	 the  case  involvedsubstantial questions of law as to the interpretation of therelevant  statute and the agreement (Ex.  D-5)	between	 theGovernment of India and the Delhi Improvement Trust.   Hencethis appeal.It  has been contended on behalf of the appellant that on  atrue construction of the provisions, particularly s. 54A  ofthe Improvement Act as applied to the Province of Delhi	 andthe agreement (Ex.  D-5) between the Government of India andthe Trust, as also of the correspondence that passed betweenthe  Chief Commissioner of Delhi and the Trust, the land  onwhich  the market was constructed and the  structure  itselfbelonged  to the Trust and that therefore the provisions  ofthe  Control Act were applicable to the tenancy	 created  bythe Trust in favour of the plaintiff; and that being so, theplaintiff  could  not  be ejected by the  defendant  on	 theexpiry	of the term or the extended term of the	 lease.	  Onthe  other  hand,  it  has been	 argued	 on  behalf  of	 thedefendant-respondent  that the Trust is the statutory  agentof the Government and has-to function in accordance with theprovisions of the statute aforesaid, namely, the ImprovementAct.  The agency was created under the provisions of s.	 54A(1)8of  the	 Improvement Act, the terms of the  agreement  beingincorporated  in  the indenture, Ex.  D-5, dated  ;March  311937.	The argument further is that in accordance with	 thescheme	as embodied in the agreement the Government  was  tohand over to its agent, the Trust, Government property whichvests  in  possession  of the agent who has  to	 manage	 anddevelop	 the  property with funds made available  to  it  byGovernment.  Proper accounts have to be kept by the Trust ofthe  monies  thus  advanced  by	 Government  in	 a  separateaccount.   The Trust has also to pay a certain fixed sum  byway of revenue on the property placed at its disposal.	 Theincome from the property in the hands of the Trust has to beapplied	 to  payment  of  interest  on	money  advanced	  byGovernment at a specified rate, as also to expenses for	 themanagement  and improvement of the property and any  surplusleft over out of the income of -the property in the hands ofthe Trust after meeting all the outgoing has to be placed atthe  disposal  of Government to be spent  according  to	 itsdirections.   Thus  the case of the respondent	is  that  nolegal title was created in favour of the Trust and the land,as  also  the structures constructed by the Trust  with	 themonies	thus advanced by Government are the property of	 theGovernment.   The Trust as the statutory agent has  only  tomanage	and develop the property in accordance with  schemessanctioned by Government.  Consequently, it was argued	thatthe  market  in question belongs to Government	and  is	 notgoverned by the Control Act.The  question  as  to in whom the title	 to  the  market  inquestion  vests may be discussed in two parts, (1) title  tothe  land on which the market is situate, and (2)  title  tothe   buildings	  admittedly  constructed  by	the   Trust.Adverting  first to the question of title in respect of	 theland,  it is common ground that before it was placed at	 thedisposal  of  the  Trust it was	 Government  property.	 Thequestion, therefore, naturally arises whether either by	 theprovisions of section 54A relied upon by both the parties inthis connection, or by virtue of the terms of the  indentureaforesaid or by the combined operation of the two, title  tothe land has become vested in			     9the  Trust.   The appellant contends it is so  vested.	 Therespondent contests this proposition and contends that thereare no words in the statute or in the agreement which eitherseparately  or together can be said to have transferred	 thepre-existing  title of the Government to the Trust.   It  ispointed	 out  on behalf of the respondent that	section	 54Aonly  authorises Government to place the land in question  "at  the	 disposal  of the Trust" which has  to	hold  it  inaccordance  with  the  terms agreed upon  between  them,  asevidenced  by the indenture Ex.	 D-5.  Let us examine  thoseterms.	The agreement provides, inter alia, that with a viewto the orderly expansion of Delhi under the supervision of asingle	authority  the	Government agreed to  place  at	 itsdisposal  "  the Nazul Estate " (described in  Schedule	 1),with  effect  from  April 1, 1937.  One	 of  the  conditionsstipulated  was	 that the "Trust shall hold and	 manage	 thesaid Nazul Estate on behalf of the Government." These  wordscannot	be  construed  as transferring title  to  the  NazulEstate	from  Government  to  the  Trust.   They  amount  toconstituting the Trust as an agent of the Government to holdpossession  of the property and to manage the same  for	 thepurpose for which the Trust had been created.  The Trust  isenjoined to use its best endeavours for the improvement	 and-development of the said Nazul Estate in accordance with theprovisions  of	the  Improvement Act,  "  provided  that  noexpenditure  shall be incurred upon the purchase of land  tobe  added  to the said Nazul Estate unless the	proposal  tomake  the  purchase  has been specifically  included  in  anImprovement  Scheme sanctioned under section 42 of the	saidAct." Particular reliance was placed on behalf of the appel-lant  on the following terms in the indenture to  show	thatthe title to the Nazul Estate vested in the Trust:" The Trust may sell or lease any land included in the	saidNazul	Estate	in  pursuance  of  the	provisions   of	  anImprovement  Scheme sanctioned under section 42 of the	saidAct.210The Trust may, otherwise than in pursuance of an ImprovementScheme sanctioned under section 42 of the said Act, sell anyland included in the said Nazul Estate."In  order  to  appreciate  the true  legal  position  it  isnecessary  here	 to examine some of the	 provisions  of	 theImprovement Act bearing on this aspect of the case.  Section22-A occurring in Chap 111-A vests the Trust with the  powerto  undertake  any works and incur any expenditure  for	 theimprovement or development of the area to which the Act	 mayhave  been  extended.  Section 23 in Chap.  IV sets  out  indetail	what  is meant by "An improvement Scheme."  It	laysdown that the acquisition by purchase, exchange or otherwiseof  any property necessary for or affected by the  executionof  the	 scheme,  the  construction  or	 reconstruction	  ofbuildings.  the	 sale, letting or exchange of  any  propertycomprised  in  the scheme and doing of all  incidental	actsnecessary for the execution of the scheme may be  undertakenby  the Trust.	Section 24 sets out the different  types  ofimprovement schemes including a general improvement  scheme,a  re-building	scheme, a re-housing scheme,  a	 developmentscheme	etc., and the sections following s. 24 lay  down  indetail	the  scope  of the different  types  of	 improvementschemes enumerated in s. 24.  Section 42 requires the  ChiefCommissioner to announce an improvement scheme sanctioned byhim by notification and thereupon the Trust embarks upon theexecution  of the scheme.  Then comes Chap.  V dealing	withthe  powers and duties of the Trust when a scheme  has	beensanctioned.   In  this	chapter occur ss.  45  to  48  whichprovide for the vesting of certain properties in the  Trust.Section	 45  lays  down the  conditions	 and  the  procedureaccording  to  which any building, street, square  or  otherland  vested in the Municipality or Notified Area  Committeemay  become vested in a Trust.	Similarly, s. 46 deals	withthe  vesting in the Trust of properties like a street  or  asquare as are not vested in a Municipality or Notified	AreaCommittee.   These  sections,  as also ss. 47  and  48	makeprovision  for compensation and for empowering the Trust  todeal with such property			     11vested in it.  The vesting of such property is only for	 thepurpose	 of  executing any improvement scheme which  it	 hasundertaken and riot with a view to clothing it with completetitle.	 As will presently appear, the term "vesting" has  avariety of meaning which has to be gathered from the contextin  which it has been used.  It may mean full ownership,  oronly  possession for a particular-purpose, or  clothing	 theauthority with power to deal with the property as the  agentof another person or authority.Coming back to the terms of the indenture with reference  tothe power of the Trust to sell or lease any land included inthe  Nazul Estate, certain conditions are laid down for	 theexercise  of the aforesaid power to transfer.  The Trust  isempowered  to sell any land included in the Nazul Estate  onits  own authority only in cases where the sale is for	fullmarket	value  and which does not exceed Rs.  25,000/-.	 -Inother  cases the transaction has to be sanctioned either  bythe  Chief Commissioner or by Government and in	 every	casethe forms of conveyances and leases by the Trust have to  beapproved by Government.	 It would thus appear that the powerto  transfer by way of sale, lease or otherwise,  vested  inthe Trust is not an unlimited or an unqualified power but  apower circumscribed by such conditions as the Government  orthe  Chief Commissioner, as the case may be, thought fit  toimpose.	   The	imposition  of	those  conditions   is	 notconsistent with the title to the property vesting absolutelyin  the Trust.	On the other hand, the imposition  of  thoseconditions is more consistent with the proposition contendedfor  by the learned Attorney-General on behalf of  the	res-pondent	 that  the Trust was only  constituted	a  statutoryagent  on  behalf of the Government in accordance  with	 theprovisions  of	the  Improvement Act and the  terms  of	 theindenture,  Ex.	  D-5.	It is noteworthy that there  are  noprovisions   either  in	 the  Improvement  Act	or  in	 theindenture,  Ex.	  D-5, to the effect that the title  to	 theNazul  Estate vested in the Trust.  It must,  therefore,  beheld  that  no grounds have been made out for  holding	thattitle to the land on which the market stands was conveyed byGovernment to the Trust.12We turn now to the question whether apart from title to	 theland, title to the building standing upon the land is vestedin the Trust.  In order to examine the contentions raised onbehalf	of  the	 appellant-it is necessary to  set  out	 theremaining  portion of the terms of the indenture  aforesaid.The  Trust was to assume full liability for all	 expenditureto be incurred upon works of improvement and to arrange	 forthe  completion	 of  those  works  to  the  satisfaction  ofGovernment.   The  Trust  is also enjoined  to	maintain  inaccordance with the statutory rules separate accounts of allrevenue	 realised from, and all expenditure  incurred  upon,the  said Nazul Estate and to pay to Government the  sum  ofRs.  2 lakhs being the equivalent of the net annual  revenuein  respect  thereof  subject  to  certain  conditions,	 notmaterial  to  this case.  Then follows the.  most  importantclause in these terms:--Any surplus funds in the Nazul Development Account remainingat the end of each financial year when the said sum has beenpaid shall be put at the disposal of Government and shall beapplied	 until further orders of Government to	the  furtherimprovement and development of the said Nazul Estate  and/orto  the repayment of loans made to the Trust  as  Governmentmay direct."Government  on its part undertook to finance either in	partor  in	whole  such schemes as may  be	agreed	between	 theparties	 and  also  to advance loans at	 interest  equal  toGovernment  rates  for	the time being for  loans  to  LocalAuthorities.   It  was in pursuance of the  terms  aforesaidthat  the scheme of the building of the market	in  questionwas put through at an estimate.	 cost of a little less	thanfive lakhs of rupees.It is clear upon the terms of the agreement shortly set	 outabove  that  the  market was constructed  by  the  Trust  onGovernment  land  with Government funds advanced by  way  ofloan at interest.  On those facts what is the legal positionof  the	 Trust vis-a-vis the Government in  respect  of	 theownership  of the property ? It is important, therefore,  todetermine  the	true  nature  of  the  initial	relationshipbetween	 the Government and the Trust.	The learned  counselfor13the  appellant	conceded  that	relationship  could  not  bedescribed in terms of ordinary legal import, that is to say,in, terms of mortgagor and mortgagee, or lessor and  lessee,or  licensor  and  licensee.  He contended  that  it  was  apeculiar  relationship which could not be defined  in  exactlegal phraseology, but all the same, that the Trust was	 theowner of the market, especially in view of the fact that, asadmitted  by the defendants counsel at the trial, the  Trusthad  repaid the entire amount of five lakhs odd advanced  byGovernment for the construction of the market.	This result,it  was further contended, follows from the terms of s.	 54Aof  the Improvement Act.  The Attorney-General appearing  onbehalf of the respondent also strongly relied upon the termsof  that  section for his contention that  the	relationshipbetween	 the Trust and the Government was that of agent	 andprincipal.  It is therefore necessary to examine closely theprovisions of that section which is in these terms:-"  (1) The Government may, upon such terms as may be  agreedupon  between  the Government and the Trust,  place  at	 thedisposal of the Trust any properties, or any funds or  dues,of  the	 Government and thereupon the Trust  shall  hold  orrealise	 such properties, funds and dues in accordance	withsuch terms.(2)  If any immovable property, held by the Trust under sub-s.  (1)	 is required by the  Government	 for  administrativepurposes,  the	Trust shall transfer the same to  the  ChiefCommissioner upon payment of all costs incurred by the Trustin  acquiring, reclaiming or developing the  same,  togetherwith  interest thereon at such rate as may be fixed  by	 theChief Commissioner calculated from the day on which this Actcomes  into force or from the date on which such costs	wereincurred, whichever is the later. The  transfer	of  any such  immovable	 property  shall  benotified  in the gazette and such property  shall  thereuponvest  in  the  Chief  Commissioner  from  the  date  of	 thenotification."The section quoted above finds place in Chap.  VA, headed  "Government Property Held by Trust." It is14manifest upon a reading of the entire section that there areno express words of conveyance whereby title is	 transferredby Government to the Trust either absolutely or upon certainconditions.  As applied to the present case, sub-s. (1) onlyprovides  that	the Government would place the	property  inquestion  at the disposal of the Trust which shall hold	 thesame  in accordance with the terms as may be agreed  betweenthem,  that is to say, in accordance with the terms  of	 theagreement aforesaid, (Ex.  D-5).  Placing the property "  atthe disposal of the Trust " does not signify that Governmenthad  divested  itself  of  its title  to  the  property	 andtransferred  the  same	to  the Trust.	 Clause	 12  of	 theagreement  (Ex.	 D-5) to the effect that "Government may  atany  time  on  giving  six  months'  notice  terminate	thisagreement  "  clearly  indicates  that	the  Government	 hadcreated	 this  agency  not on a permanent basis.  but  as  aconvenient  mode  of  having  its  schemes  of	 improvementimplemented   by  a  single  agency  with  wide	 powers	  ofmanagement and expenditure of funds placed at its  disposal,either	by  way	 of income from the property or	 by  way  ofadvance from Government funds.	Sub-s. (1). therefore,	doesnot in express terms or by necessary implication confer	 anytitle on the Trust in respect of the market.  The Trust onlyholds the market and realizes the income therefrom which  isdisbursed in accordance with the terms of the agreement	 andthe  rules framed by the Chief Commissioner in	exercise  ofthe  powers conferred on him by cl. (e) of sub-s. (1) of  s.72.   Our  attention was called to some of  those  statutoryrules,	particularly  rules, 21, 36, 38 and 156	 read  alongwith  the  forms and the Appendix.  It is not  necessary  todiscuss those rules in detail because on a consideration  ofthose  rules we are satisfied that they are more  consistentwith  the Trust being a statutory agent of  the	 Government,which has to maintain separate accounts in. respect of nazulproperty.   Any reappropriation from nazul to  non-nazul  orvice-versa could not be made by the Trust without the  priorsanction  of the Chief Commissioner.  The method of  keepingaccounts in respect of the nazul estate would show that	 theTrust had to function as15the  statutory agent of the Government in the matter of	 theadministration of the Trust funds with particular  referenceto the nazul estate with which we are immediately concerned.But it has been argued on behalf of the appellant that	sub-s.  (2) of s. 54A quoted above postulates that the Trust  isthe  owner of the property' otherwise the sub-section  wouldnot speak of the Trust having to transfer immovable propertyheld  by it to the Chief Commissioner in certain  contingen-cies,  upon payment of all costs incurred by the'  Trust  inacquiring,  reclaiming or developing that property  togetherwith  interest	calculated in the way set out in  that	sub-section.   It should be noted in this connection  that	whatthe Government was required to pay was not the market  valueof  the	 property but only the cost incurred by	 the  Trust.That  provision	 apparently  was made  for  the	 purpose  ofaccounting  between  the  different branches  of  the  Trustactivities.   If title really vested in the Trust, it  wouldbe  entitled  to receive from Government the  price  of	 theproperty and not merely required to be reimbursed in respectof  the	 actual	 expenditure  on  the  scheme.	  Particularreliance was placed upon the words " and such property shallthereupon  vest	 in the Chief Commissioner." It	 was  arguedthat  unless the property previously vested in the Trust  itcould not upon the transfer contemplated by sub-s. (2)	vestin  the Chief Commissioner.  This argument assumes that	 theword  "	 vest  " necessarily signifies	that  title  to	 theproperty  resides  in the Trust.  But the  word	 "vest"	 hasseveral	 meanings with reference to the context in which  itis  used.  In this connection reference may be made  to	 thefollowing  observations of Lord Cranworth in  Richardson  v.Robertson (1) :"  ...The  word	 'vest' is a word,  at	least  of  ambiguousimport.	  Prima facie 'vesting ' in possession is  the	morenatural	   meaning.	The,	expressions    'investiture'-'clothing'-and	 whatever else be the explanation as to	 theorigin	of  the	 word,	point  prima  facie  rather  to	 theenjoyment than to the obtaining of a right.  But(1)  (1862) 6 L.T. 75, at P. 78.16I  am willing to accede to the argument that was pressed  atthe bar, that by long usage ' vesting' ordinarily means	 thehaving	obtained  an  absolute and  indefeasible  right,  ascontra-distinguished  from  the not having so  obtained	 it.But it cannot be disputed that the word ' vesting' may mean,and often does mean, that which is its primary	etymologicalsignification, namely, vesting in possession."Similarly with reference to the provisions of a local Act (5Geo.  4, c. Ixiv), it was held that the word "vest" did	 notconvey a freehold title but only a right in the nature of aneasement.   The	 following words of Willes, J. in  Hinde  v.Charlton(1) are relevant:-words,	which  in  terms vested	 -the  freehold	 in  personsappointed  to  perform	some public duties,  such  as  canalcompanies and boards of health, have been held satisfied  bygiving	to such persons the control over the soil which	 wasnecessary to the carrying out the objects of the Act withoutgiving them the freehold ' "In  the	 case  of Coverdale v. Charlton (2),  the  Court  ofAppeal	on a consideration of the provisions of	 the  PublicHealth	Act,  1875 (38 and 39 Vict. c. 55)  with  particularreference to s. 149, has made the following observations  atp. 116:-What then is the meaning of the word 'vest' in this  section?   The	  legislature  might  have   used   the	  expressiontransferred'  or  'conveyed', but they have  used  the	word'vest'.	  The meaning I should like to put upon it is,	thatthe street vests in the local board qua street; not that anysoil or any right to the soil or surface vests, but that  itvests qua street."Referring  to  the provisions of s. 134 of the	Lunacy	Act,1890  (53  & 54 Vict. c. 5) in the case of In  re  Brown  (alunatic)(3)  it has been laid down by Lindley, L.  J.,	thatthe  word  "vested" in that section included  the  right  toobtain	and  deal with; without being actual  owner  of	 thelunatic's personal estate.(1)  (1866-67) C.P. Cases 104 at 116.(2)  (1878-79) 4 Q.B.D. 104.(3)  (1895) 2 Ch. 666.17In  the case of Finchley Electric Light Company v.  FinchleyUrban District Council(1), adverting to the provisions of s.149 of the Public Health Act, 1875, (supra) Romer, L.J., hasmade the following observations at pp. 443 and 444:-"Now,	that   section	has  received  by   this   time	  anauthoritative interpretation by a long series of cases.	  Itwas  not  by  that section intended to	vest  in  the  urbanauthority  what I may call the full rights in fee  over	 thestreet, as if that street was owned by an ordinary owner  infee having the fullest rights both as to the soil below	 andas  to	the air above.	It is settled that  the	 section  inquestion was only intended to vest in the urban authority somuch of the actual soil of the street as might be  necessaryfor  the control, protection, and maintenance of the  streetas  a  highway for public use.	For that proposition  it  issufficient  to refer to what was said by Lord  Halsbury,  L.C., and by Lord Herschell in Tunbridge Wells Corporation  v.Baird(2)  I..........  That section has nothing'to  do	withtitle; it is not considering a question of title.  No matterwhat  the  title is of the person who owns the	street,	 thesection	 is  only considering how much of the  street  shallvest in the urban authority........That  the word "vest" is a word of variable import is  shownby  provisions of Indian statutes also.	 For example, s.  56of  the Provincial Insolvency Act (V of 1920)  empowers	 thecourt at the time of the making of the order of adjudicationor thereafter to appoint a receiver for the property of	 theinsolvent  and further provides that " such  property  shallthereupon  vest in the receiver." The property vests in	 thereceiver for the purpose of administering the estate of	 theinsolvent  for the payment of his debts after realising	 hisassets.	 The property of the insolvent vests in the receivernot  for  all  purposes	 but only for  the  purpose  of	 theInsolvency  Act and the receiver has no interest of his	 ownin  the property.  On the other hand, ss. 16 and 17  of	 theLand  Acquisition  Act. (Act I of 1894),  provide  that	 theproperty so acquired, upon the happening of(1)[1903] 1 Ch. 437.3(2) [1896] A.C. 434.18certain	 events, shall " vest absolutely in  the  Governmentfree  from all encumbrances'.  In the cases contemplated  byss. 16 and 17 the property acquired becomes. the property ofGovernment  without any conditions or limitations either  asto  title or possession.  The legislature has made it  clearthat  the  vesting of the property is not  for	any  limitedpurpose or limited duration.  It would thus appear that	 theword "vest" has not got a fixed connotation, meaning in	 allcases that the property is owned by the person or the autho-rity in whom it vests.	It may vest in title, or it may vestin  possession,	 or  it	 may vest in  a	 limited  sense,  asindicated in the context in which it may have been used in aparticular  piece  of legislation.  The	 provisions  of	 theImprovement  Act, particularly ss. 45 to 49 and 54  and	 54Awhen they speak of a certain building or street or square orother land vesting in a municipality or other local body  orin  a  trust,  do not necessarily mean	that  ownership	 haspassed to any of them.The  question of the ownership of the structure	 built	uponGovernment  land by the Trust may be looked at from  anotherpoint  of view.	 We have already held that the Trust was  inthe  position  of a statutory agent of	Government  and	 haderected the structure with money belonging to Government butadvanced at interest to the Trust.  In such a situation	 thestructure  also would be the property of Government,  thoughfor  the time being it may be at the disposal of  the  Trustfor  the purpose of managing it efficiently as	a  statutorybody.	Simply	because the Trust erected the  structure  inquestion  and  later  on  paid up  the	amount	advanced  byGovernment  for	 the purpose would not necessarily  lead  tothe,legal  inference that the structure was the property  ofthe Trust.  In this connection reference may be made to	 thedecision  of  this  Court  in  Bhatia  Co-operative  HousingSociety	 Ltd.  v. D. C. Patel(1).  The case is	not  on	 allfours with the facts of the present case.  But the followingobservations  of  Das J. (as he then was) at p. 195  of	 thereport are pertinent:-" It is true that the lessee erected the building at his owncost but he did so for the lessor and on the(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 185.19lessor's  land	on agreed terms.  The fact that	 the  lesseeincurred  expenses in putting up the building  is  preciselythe  consideration for the lessor granting him a lease,	 for999  years not only of the building but of the land as	wellat  what  may, for all we know, be a cheap  rent  which	 thelessor	may  not  have	otherwise  agreed  to  do.   By	 theagreement the building became the property of the lessor andthe  lessor demised the land and the building which, in	 thecircumstances,	in law and in fact belonged to	the  lessor.The  law.  of  fixtures	 under s. 108  of  the	Transfer  ofProperty  Act may be different from the English law, but  s.108 is subject to any agreement that the parties may  chooseto make.  Here, by the agreement the building became part ofthe land and the property of the lessor and the lessee	tooka lease on that footing."In  our	 opinion, therefore, it cannot be said	that  eitherunder the provisions of the Improvement Act or in accordancewith the terms of the agreement (Ex.  D-5) or the two  takentogether,  the market became the property of the Trust.	  Wehave   already	 noticed  the  relevant	 portions   of	 thecorrespondence that passed between Government and the  Trustto show that though at the initial stages the Trust proposedthat  the ownership of the market should vest in the  Trust,the  final  terms agreed between the parties  in  accordancewith  the  provisions  of s. 54A  left	the  ownership	withGovernment.   We  have	come  to  this	conclusion   withoutreference  to  the admission of the plaintiff  contained  inpara.  22 of the indenture (Ex.	 D-4) quoted above.   It  istherefore  not	necessary for us to  consider  the  questionraised	by the learned Attorney-General that  the  plaintiffwas  bound  by that admission or whether that  admission  isvitiated  by  any  pressure of circumstances  or  duress  aspleaded	 by  the plaintiff.  Certainly that admission  is  apiece  of evidence which could be considered on	 its  meritseven apart from the question of estopped which had not	beenspecifically  pleaded  or  formed the subject  matter  of  aseparate issue.In view of our finding that the market, as also the land  onwhich  it  stands,  is	the  property  of  Government,	 theconclusion follows that the operative provisions of20the  Control Act do not apply to the premises  in  question.That  being  so, it must be held that there is no  merit  inthis appeal.  It is accordingly dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.