PETITIONER:NEW PRAKASH TRANSPORT CO.  LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:NEW SUWARNA TRANSPORT CO.  LTD.DATE OF JUDGMENT:30/09/1956BENCH:ACT:Road Transport-Application for stage carriage  Permit-Policereport-Procedure-Appellate  Authority, if bound	 to  adjournproceeding   suo  mctu-Failure	Of  natural   Justice--MotorVehicles Act (II, Of 1939), ss. 47, 48, 64, 68.HEADNOTE:Rules of natural justice vary with the varying constitutionsof  statutory  bodies  and  the	 rules	prescribed  by	 thelegislature  under which they have to act, and the  questionwhether in a particular case they have been contravened mustbe judged not by any preconceived notion of what they may bebut in the light of the provisions of the relevant Act.Case-law discussed.The provisions of ss. 47, 48, 64 and the rules framed  unders.  68	of the Motor Vehicles Act make it  abundantly  clearthat  a	 Regional  Transport  Authority	 and  an   AppellateAuthority in hearing an appeal, function in a quasi-judicialcapacity  and not as courts of law and are not	required  torecord	oral  or documentary evidence and,  in	deciding  asbetween	 the rival claims of applicants for  stage  carriagepermits,  what they are required to do is to deal with	suchclaims	in a fair and just manner.  The Act, however,  amplyprovides for the safeguarding of their interests.Veerappa  Pillai  v. Raman & Raman Ltd, [1952]	S.C.R.	583,referred to,99Consequently, in a case where the Regional Transport  Autho-rity refused to grant a permit to an applicant on account ofan adverse police report and the Appellate Authority grantedthe  same  on the basis of a further report by	the  police,whereby all material allegations against him were  withdrawnand  nothing was said against his rival which would  requireto  be controverted by him, and the Chairman read  out	suchreport at the hearing of the appeal without any objection byany of the interested parties or any request for adjournmentand a Division Bench of the High Court in appeal,  reversingthe decision of a single judge made under Arts. 226 and	 227Of the Constitution, held that the rules of natural  justicehad been contravened by reason of the failure on the part ofthe  Appellate Authority to adjourn the proceeding suo	motuin order to afford the rival claimant an opportunity to meetthe  revised police report, its decision was  erroneous	 andmust be set aside.Held,  further, that the reading out of the contents of	 thepoiice	report by the Chairman at the hearing of the  appealwas  enough compliance with the rules of natural justice  asthere was nothing in the rules requiring a copy of it to  befurnished to any of the parties.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 74 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedSeptember  22,	1955, of the Nagpur High  Court	 in  LettersPatent Appeal No. 2 of 1955.C.K.  Daphtary, Solicitor-General for India, J. N.  Bannerjiand P. C. Agarwala, for the appellant.M.C.  Setalvad, Attorney-General for India and	Naunit	Lal,for respondent No. 1.1956.	September  30.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered bySINHA  J.-This	is  an	appeal by  special  leave  from	 thejudgment and order, dated September 22, 1955, passed by	 theLetters	 Patent	 Bench of the Nagpur  High  Court  reversingthose  of a single Judge of that Court, dated  December	 13,1954,  refusing	 to  issue  a  writ  in	 the  nature  of   acertiorari.The  facts  of this case lie in a short compass and  may  bestated	as follows: The Suwarna Transport  Company  Limited,which  will  be referred to as the first respondent  in	 thecourse	of  this judgment, held seven  permits	for  runningbuses on the Buldana-Malkapur route, as the100sole operator on that route.  It applied for another  permitfor  the  same	route.	 The  appellant,  The  New   PrakashTransport  Co.	Ltd.,  as also	another	 party,	 called	 theNavjivan Transport Service (not cited in this Court) appliedfor  a similar permit on that route.  On May 26,  1953,	 allthe  three applicants aforesaid were heard by  the  RegionalTransport   Authority  of  Amraoti,  which  is	 the   thirdrespondent  in	this Court, in connection  with	 the  permitapplied for.  Consideration of the several applications	 waspostponed,  but a resolution was passed to the	effect	that"No  one  service should have monopoly	on  Buldana-Malkapurroute."	 On March 30, 1954, another meeting of the  RegionalTransport Authority took place and the first respondent	 wasgranted	  the  permit.	 The  appellant's  application	 wasrejected  on the ground that the police report	was  againstit.   The  appellant preferred an appeal  to  the  AppellateAuthority  (constituted under R. 73 of the  Motor  -VehiclesAct), Madhya Pradesh, Nagpur, which is the second respondentto this appeal.	 The appellant challenged the correctness ofthe  police  report against it and applied to  the  DistrictSuperintendent	of  Police personally to  verify  the  factsstated	in  the	 first	report on the  basis  of  which	 theappellant's  application  for permit had been  rejected,  asaforesaid.   The  police made a further	 report,  which	 wasplaced before the second respondent.  That further report bythe  police was read out to the parties by the	Chairman  ofthe  Appellate Authority at the time of the hearing  of	 theappeal.	  At the hearing no objection appears to  have	beenraised	by any of the parties to the course adopted  by	 thesecond	respondent.  By its order dated July 29,  1954,	 thesecond	 respondent  set  aside	 the  order  of	 the   thirdrespondent, allowed the appeal and ordered the permit to  beissued	to  the appellant.  The first respondent  moved	 theHigh Court at Nagpur for a writ of certiorari under Art. 226of  the Constitution, substantially on two grounds,  namely,(1)  that  the	order passed by the  second  respondent	 wasvitiated by an error apparent on the face of the record, and(2) that it contravened the' principles of natural  justice.The  first  ground was founded on the  allegation  that	 thesecond101respondent had misread the police report, and the second  onthe allegation that the revised report by the police had notbeen shown to the petitioner who had been afforded no " realand effective opportunity to deal with the report or to meetany  relevant  allegations made therein, and to	 study	thatreport and make his submissions in regard thereto before theappeal was decided." The appellant and the second respondentshowed	cause  against the rule issued by  the	court.	 Theappellant  while  showing  cause, admitted  that  the  thirdrespondent had rejected its application on the basis of	 thepolice	report	dated  March 27, 1954, which  "was  full  ofmistakes  and  falsehoods,"  that  it  moved  the   DistrictSuperintendent	of Police personally to verify the  contentsof  the said report and that the fresh report  submitted  bythe police after due verification had absolved the appellantfrom  the allegations of misconduct contained in  the  firstreport.	 It also controverted the ground that there was	 anymistake	 apparent  on  the face of the	record.	  The  freshreport	submitted  by the police after verification  at	 theappellant's  request was received by the  second  respondentand  the  Chairman read the same during the hearing  of	 theappeal	and  that, therefore, it was wrong to  suggest	thatthere had been a failure of justice,.  The second respondentalso showed cause and corroborated the appellant's statementthat the first police report had been subsequently  modifiedby the District Superintendent of Police by the report datedMay  13, 1954, which showed that the previous report  was  "based on some misunderstanding." It was also stated that thereport was actually read out to the parties by the  Chairmanwhile the appeal was being heard.The petition under Arts. 226 and 227 made, as aforesaid,  bythe  first  respondent	was heard by  a	 single	 Judge	(Mr.Justice	 V.  R. Sen) who by his orders	dated  December	 13,1954, discharged the rule with costs.  In the course of	 hisjudgment the learned Judge after' referring in detail to theorders of the authorities under the Motor Vehicles Act, thatis  to say, the second and third respondents, observed	thatthere was no substance in the contention that the procedure			    102adopted	 by  the  Appellate Authority  was  opposed  to	 theprinciples  of	natural	 justice and  had  operated  to	 theprejudice  of  the first respondent; and that there  was  noerror apparent on the face of the record.  The learned Judgealso  pointed out that when -the report was brought  to	 thenotice of the first respondent, it did not indicate that  itwished to controvert the report.The  first respondent preferred an appeal under the  LettersPatent and repeated its grounds of attack against the ordersof  the	 Appellate  Authority.	The appeal was	heard  by  aDivision  Bench consisting of Chief Justice Hidayatulla	 andMr.  Justice S. P. Kotwal.  The Letters Patent Bench  seemedto be inclined to negative the plea that there was a mistakeapparent  on  the face of the record and  pointed  out	thatthough the language used by the second respondent was  ambi-guous  and not quite accurate, it was possible to  take	 theview  that it had in fact considered the  subsequent  policereport	when  it observed that the  police  bad	 practicallyabsolved  the  appellant from all blame except	on  a  minorquestion,  not necessary to be referred to in  detail  here.On  the	 second ground it differed from the  learned  singleJudge  and  came  to  the  conclusion  "that  the  AppellateAuthority  erred in rushing through without giving a  properand effective chance to the appellant to state its case." Inthe  result  it	 granted a writ quashing the  order  of	 theAppellate Authority and directing it to rehear the appeal inthe  light  of the observations made in the  course  of	 thejudgment.The  appellant made an application to the High Court  for  acertificate  of	 fitness for appeal to this  Court.   Havingbeen unsuccessful there, the appellant came up to this Courtand obtained special leave to appeal.The only question which requires determination by this Courtis  whether  or	 not there has been  a	failure	 of  naturaljustice in this case as a result of the procedure adopted bythe Appellate Authority.  On this question there has been  amarked	difference of opinion in the two stages of the	casein the High Court.  It has been103argued	on behalf of the appellant that the Appeal Bench  ofthe Nagpur High Court has erred in coming to the  conclusionthat  in  the circumstances of this case, there has  been  afailure of justice, in disagreement with the learned  singleJudge who was clearly of the opposite opinion.	It has	alsobeen argued that there are no well defined criteria by whichthis  question falls to be determined.	It depends upon	 theterms  of the legislation creating the statutory body  whichhas  to function according to its obligations laid  down  inthe  statute.  If it has done all that was required  by	 thelaw  to	 do,  it cannot be said that it has  failed  in	 thedischarge  of  its  statutory  duty.   In  this	  connectionreference was made to the provisions of ss. 47, 48 and 64 ofthe  Motor Vehicles Act read along with the  relevant  rulesframed under s. 68 of the Act.	On behalf of the respondentsit  was	 argued that it had no opportunity of  studying	 thesubsequent  police report and of making submissions  thereonwith  the  result that there has been a failure	 of  naturaljustice	 in the sense that the respondent had been  deprivedof  a fair and full opportunity of being heard.	 Though	 theHigh Court on appeal did not base its decision on the  otherquestion,  namely, whether there was any error	apparent  onthe  face  of the record, it was sought to  be	argued	thatthere was an error in the order of the second respondent  inso  far	 as it made reference to only the first	 report	 andread into it the maatter contained in the subsequent report.At the outset we may observe that, in our opinion, there  isno substance in the second ground sought to be	resuscitatedin this Court by the learned counsel on behalf of the  res-.pondent.   Error apparent on the face of the record  in	 thecontext of this case must mean an assumption of facts  whichare not borne out by the record.  We are not concerned	withother  grounds which may in the context of  each  particularcase  support a contention of error apparent on the face  ofthe  record.  In this case if there was any such  error,  itwas  with reference to the two police reports.	As  observedby  the	 Appellate  Bench  of the  High	 Court,	 though	 thelanguage  used	by- the Appellate Authority with  regard  tostrict104grammatical  construction  may	refer to  the  first  policereport,	 it was difficult to hold that the matters  referredto  in the order challenged before the High Court  were	 notcontained  in the subsequent report submitted by the  policeat the instance of the appellant.  The judgment under appealdid  not  take	the view that there  was  any  such  mistakeapparent  on the face of the record as was contended for  onbehalf	of the first respondent.  We have been	referred  tothe  orders  of	 the  Appellate Authority  as  read  by	 theAppellate  Bench of the High Court and, in our	opinion,  nosuch  mistake  has been shown to have  vitiated	 the  ordersimpugned before the High Court.Coming back to the question whether or not there has been  afailure	 of  natural  justice, we  may	shortly	 review	 therelevant provisions of the statute in order to find out	 theobligations  imposed  upon  the	 Appellate  Authority  whiledisposing  of  an  appeal from the orders  of  the  RegionalTransport  Authority.	The matters to be  considered  by  aRegional Transport Authority at the time of disposing of  anapplication  for a stage carriage permit are set out  in  s.47.  They include the interest of the public generally,	 theadequacy of existing road transport service and the benefitsto any particular locality.  The Authority is also  enjoinedto  take  into	consideration any  representations  made  bypersons	 already providing road transport  facilities  alongthe  proposed  route  or by any local  authority  or  policeauthority within whose jurisdiction the proposed route lies.Section	 48 empowers a Regional Transport  Authority,  aftertaking	into  consideration matters set forth in s.  47,  torestrict  the  number  of  stage  carriages  and  to  imposeconditions  on stage carriage permits.	Section 64  providesfor right of appeal against specified kinds of orders passedby  the	 Provincial or Regional Transport Authority  to	 the"prescribed  authority".  It also in terms provides that  onan appeal being filed to the prescribed authority, it  shallgive  the appellant and the original authority, that  is  tosay, the authority against whose orders the appeal had	beenbrought., "an opportunity of being heard." Section 64  whichcreates	 the  right of appeal does not in terms speak  of  alike105opportunity  being  given to the persons  against  whom	 theappeal	had been filed.	 But r. 73 framed by the  Governmentin  pursuance of its rule-making power conferred by  s.	 68,lays  down that the authority to decide' an  appeal  againstthe orders of a Regional Transport Authority under s. 64  ofthe  Act  shall	 be  the Chairman and  two  members  of	 theProvincial  Transport Authority.  The rule further  providesthat on receipt of an appeal, the Chairman shall appoint thetime  and  place for hearing the appeal and shall  give	 notless than thirty days notice to the appellant, the  originalauthority,  and "any other person interested in the  appeal"and  on	 such  appointed or  adjourned	date  the  AppellateAuthority "shall hear such persons as may appear and,  aftersuch  further  enquiry, if any, as it  may  deem  necessary,confirm,  vary,	 or set aside the order	 against  which	 theappeal is preferred and make any consequential or incidentalorder  that may be just or proper".  It will. thus  be	seenthat  though the substantive section creating the  right  ofappeal does not in terms create any right in a respondent tobe  heard,  the	 rules framed providing	 for  the  procedurebefore	the Appellate Authority contemplate that  sufficientnotice	shall be given to " any other person  interested  inthe appeal" which expression must include persons other thanthe  appellant who may be interested in being heard  againstthe  points  raised in support of the appeal.	Neither	 thesections  nor  the rules framed under  the  Act	 contemplateanything like recording oral or documentary evidence in	 theusual  way  as	in  courts of  law.   Besides,	the  partiesinterested  in the grant of stage carriage permits or  thoseinterested against it, the police authority of the  localityis also entitled to be heard both at the original stage	 andat the appellate stage.Thus the Motor Vehicles Act and the rules framed  thereunderwith   particular  reference  to  the	Regional   TransportAuthority  and	the Appellate Authority do  not	 contemplateanything  like a regular hearing in a court of justice.	  Noelaborate  procedure  has  been prescribed  as	to  how	 theparties interested have to be14106heard in connection with the question, who is to be  granteda  stage  carriage permit.  The judgment of the	 High  Courtunder appeal has made copious quotations from the  decisionsof the House of Lords and the Court of Appeal in support  ofits  conclusion that the principles of natural	justice	 hadnot  been sufficiently complied with in the present case  bysimply reading out the subsequent police report at the	timethe Appellate Authority was hearing the appeal.	 The learnedJudges	of the Appeal Court have observed that the  contentsof a long report such as the second report was, could not becarried	 in one'.-, head.  They also observed that in  orderto  present  its case effectively the first  respondent	 wasentitled  not only to have the report read out but  also  tostudy  it so that it could understand it and state its	casefully  and effectively before the Appellate  Authority.	  Wehave to examine those several precedents relied upon by	 theHigh  Court to see how far its conclusions are supported  byauthority.  But before we do that, it has got to be observedthat the question whether the rules of natural justice	havebeen observed in a particular case must itself be judged  inthe  light of the constitution of the statutory	 body  whichhas  to function in accordance with the rules laid  down  bythe legislature and in that sense the rules themselves	mustvary.  The Regional Transport Authority is charged with	 theduty  of granting or refusing a stage carriage permit,	onlyto  mention  the  matter  with	which  we  are	 immediatelyconcerned.   In	 that connection the statute  requires	thatauthority  to have regard to the matters set forth in s.  47of  the	 Act, as already indicated.   The  police  authoritywithin	whose  local jurisdiction any part of  the  proposedroute	lies,  has  also  been	given  the  right  to	makerepresentations.   But	the police report submitted  to	 theRegional Transport Authority or to the Appellate  Authority,if  it	requires  the  police authority to  do	so,  is	 notintended  to be anything more than an expression of  opinionby  an	authority interested in the maintenance of  law	 andorder,	with  particular  reference to the  question  as  towhether	 any of the applicants for a permit had anything  toits credit or discredit as107supplier  of transport facilities.  Such a report  is  meantmore  for the use of the authority in making or	 refusing  agrant than for the use of the several applicants or any	 oneof them.  In other words, it is in the nature of informationsupplied  by the police in order to assist the authority  inmaking up its mind.  In the present case when the subsequentpolice	report	was read out by the  Chairman,	neither	 theappellant  nor the first respondent, nor for the  matter  ofthat  any of the other parties, raised any objection to	 theuse  of	 that document or asked for an	adjournment  on	 theground either that it had been taken by surprise or that  ithad  materials	to offer in opposition to the  report.	 Thelearned Judges of the High Court have observed in the courseof their judgment under appeal that though it is the essenceof  the business of tribunals like the one under the  -MotorVehicles   Act	to  transact  business	expeditiously,	 thebusiness of the authority would not have suffered much if  acopy  of the report had been given to the parties  concernedand  the case adjourned for a short time.  It  appears	that-no such adjournment had been prayed for on behalf of any ofthe  parties  who,  it	appears,  had  been  represented  bycounsel.  But then the High Court has observed further	that"the duty is laid not upon counsel who appears but upon	 thetribunal  which	 administers justice.  It  is  incumbent  onevery  tribunal which - acts judicially to see that  justiceis  not	 only  done but is seen to be done,  arid  that	 theelementary  rule  of natural justice of giving	a  fair	 andproper hearing to every one concerned is followed.  We thinkthat  the  Appellate  Authority	 erred	in  rushing  throughwithout	 giving	 a  proper  and	 effective  chance  to	 theappellant to state its case." In our opinion, the High Courthas   made   a	number	of  assumptions	 in   making   thoseobservations  which  do not appear to be  justified  by	 thescheme	of the legislation we are dealing with or by  any  apriori	considerations	of what has  been  characterized  as"natural  justice".   The  tribunal  in	 question  was	 notadministering  justice	as  a court  of	 law,  though  whiledeciding as between the rival claims of the applicants for apermit it had to deal with them in a fair and just manner.108But a tribunal even acting " judicially " is not obliged  togrant  an  adjournment suo motu without any  application  onbehalf	of  any of the parties interested.  We do  not	findthat  any  of the parties made at that	time  any  grievanceabout the procedure adopted by the Appellate Authority.	 Butthe question appears to have been raised for the first	timebefore	the  High  Court after the  Appellate  Tribunal	 haddecided	 to  grant  the permit to the  appellant.   In	thisconnection  it has also to be observed that  the  subsequentpolice	report had said nothing directly against  the  firstrespondent  which it would be interested  in  controverting.The subsequent police report had only withdrawn some of	 theadverse comments against the conduct of the appellant  whichhad  been found to have been made under a  misunderstanding.But   the  subsequent  report  still  contains	some   minorcomplaints  against  the  appellant.   Those  matters	wereapparently  considered by the Appellate Authority not to  beso  serious as to stand in the way of the appellant  gettingthe  permit, especially when that authority  had  previouslydecided upon the policy that monopoly of supplying transportfacility should not be allowed to continue in favour of	 thefirst respondent.  Hence, in our opinion, there was  nothingin  the	 rules requiring a copy of the police report  to  befurnished  to  any  of	the  parties,  nor  was	 there	 anycircumstance necessitating the adjournment of the hearing ofthe  appeal,  particularly  when  no  request  for  such  anadjournment had been made either by the first respondent  orby  any	 other	party.	At that time  none  of	the  partiesappears	 to have made any grievance about the police  reportonly  being  read at by the Chairman or any request  for  anadjournment  in order to adduce evidence pro and  con.	 Therules  framed under Chapter IV for "the conduct and  hearingof the appeals that may be preferred under this chapter	 (s.68  (2) (b)) " do not contemplate any such facilities  beinggranted	 to the parties, though it is open to the  AppellateAuthority to make any such " further enquiry, if any, as  itmay deem necessary."But  the  High Court Bench appears to have, taken  the	viewthat, rule or no rule, request or no request for an109adjournment,the	 rules of natural justice made it  incumbentupon the Appellate Authority to stay its hands in order that"  a  proper  and effective chance was given  to  the  firstrespondent to state its case." There was not much of a	caseto state because, each party applying for the permit must bepresumed  to  have  pressed its	 claim	upon  the  AppellateAuthority.   We	 have therefore to  examine  the  precedentsdiscussed in detail in the judgment under appeal to see	 howfar  the Appellate Bench was justified in holding  that	 therules of natural justice had been contravened by the  Appel-late Authority.The earliest decision of the House of Lords brought to ournotice	 in  this  connection  is  the	case   of   Spackmanv.Plumstead  Board of Works (1).  In that case the  questionarose  on  a  prosecution  for infringement  of	 an  Act  ofParliament making provision for fixing the " general line ofbuildings   "	in   a	road.	The   certificate   of	 thesuperintending architect as to the general line of buildingscame  in for discussion as to whether the architect,  beforedeciding as to how the general line has to be fixed, had  tohear the parties concerned.  In that connection the Earl  ofSelborne, L.C., made the following observations :-"  No doubt, in the absence of special provisions as to	 howthe  person  who is to decide is to proceed,  the  law	willimply  no  more than that the  substantial  requirements  ofjustice	 shall	not be violated.  He is not a judge  in	 theproper	sense of the word; but he must give the	 parties  anopportunity of being heard before him and stating their caseand  their view.  He must give notice when he  will  proceedwith  the matter, and he must act honestly  and	 impartiallyand not under the dictation of some other person or persons,to whom the authority is not given by law.  There must be noMalversation of any kind.  There would be no decision withinthe  meaning of the statute if there were anything  of	thatsort   done   contrary	 to   the   essence   of    justice.But it appears to me to be perfectly consistent with reason,that the statute may have intentionally(1)  [1885] 10 A.C. 229, 240.110omitted	 to provide for form, because this is a, matter	 notof a kind requiring form, not of a kind requiring litigationat  all, but requiring only that the parties should have  anopportunity  of submitting to the person by  whose  decisionthey  are  to  be  bound such  considerations  as  in  theirjudgment ought to be brought before him.  When that is done,from  the  nature of the case no further  proceeding  as  tosummoning the parties, or as to doing anything of that	kindwhich a judge might have to do, is necessary."Another	 leading case on the subject is the decision of	 theHouse of Lords in the well-known case of Board of  Educationv.  Rice (1).  Their Lordships in that case had	 to  discussthe  duty  of  the  Board of Education under  s.  7  of	 theEducation Act, 1902.  Lord Loreburn, L.C., in the course  ofhis  speech referred to the provisions of the Act  and	madethe following observations as to the duty to decide  certainquestions relating to nonprovided schools:-" Comparatively recent statutes have extended, if they	havenot originated, the practice of imposing upon  department.,;or  officers  of State the duty of deciding  or	 determiningquestions of various kinds.  In the present instance, as  inmany  others,  what comes for determination is	sometimes  amatter	to be settled by discretion, involving no  law.	  Itwill,  I suppose, usually be of an administrative kind;	 butsometimes it will involve matter of law as well as matter offact,  or  even depend upon matter of law  alone.   In	suchcases the Board of Education will have to ascertain the	 lawand  also  to ascertain the facts.  I need not add  that  indoing  either they must act in good faith and fairly  listento  both sides, for that is a duty lying upon every one	 whodecides anything, But I do not think they are bound to treatsuch  a	 question as though it were a trial.  They  have  nopower to administer an oath, and need not examine witnesses.They  can  obtain information in any way  they	think  best,always giving a fair opportunity to those who are parties inthe controversy for correcting or contradicting any relevantstatement prejudicial to their view."(1)  [1911] A.C. 179,182.How  far judicial opinion may vary as to the content of	 therule of natural justice is amply illustrated by the case  ofRex  v.	 Local Government Board, Ex parte  Arlidge  (1),  atdifferent stages.  The rule nisi for a certiorari was  firstheard  by Ridley, Lord Coleridge and Bankes, JJ.   The	caserelated	 to the powers of the, Local Government Board  underthe  Housing, Town Planning, etc.  Act, 1909 (9 Edw.  7,  c.44)  refusing  to terminate its orders closing	a  dwelling-house as unfit for habitation and the procedure for  hearingan  appeal  against such an order.  Section 29	of  the	 Actprovided that such an appeal shall be heard and disposed  ofaccording to the procedure laid down by the Local GovernmentBoard, provided that the rules shall provide that the  Boardshall  not dismiss any, appeal without having first  held  apublic local inquiry.., It was unanimously held by the Courtdischarging the rule that the Local Government Board was notbound  to hear the appellant or any one on his behalf  afterthe report of the inspector on the public local inquiry	 hadbeen received, before dismissing the appeal.  At the  publiclocal inquiry the owner of the house affected by the closingorder had been represented.  But at the time the appeal	 wasfinally	 disposed of, there was no hearing of the  appellantor  his	 representative	 as in a court of  law.	  The  Courtrepelled  the argument that the appellant had a right to  beheard by the Local Government Board and to know the contentsof the report made by the inspector who had held the  publiclocal  inquiry.	 Rely Vingmainly upon the judgment  of	LordLoreburn,  L.C,	 in the case of Board of Education  v.	Rice(supra),  the Court decided that the procedure indicated  bythe  rules  framed under the statute in	 question  had	beenfollowed  and that there was no other or further  obligationon  the	 Board to hear the appellant  either  personally  orthrough his representative or counsel, because there was  noindication  in the statute to that effect.  The	 matter	 wastaken in appeal in Rex v. Local Government Board, Ex parte Arlidge	(2), and the Court of Appeal by a majority  (VaughanWilliams and Buckley, L.JJ., Hamilton, L.J. dissenting(1) [1913] 1 K.B, 463.(2) [1914] 1 K. B. 16o,112allowed	 the  appeal  holding that it was  contrary  to	 theprinciples  of	natural justice that the Board	should	havedismissed the appeal without disclosing to the appellant thecontents of their inspector's report and without giving	 theappellant  an opportunity of being heard in support  of	 theappeal.	  They, therefore, quashed the order dismissing	 theappeal.	 The majority judgment pointed out that the Act	 andthe rules framed thereunder except for certain matters	weresilent	as to the procedure and that in the absence of	suchspecific  provisions the non-disclosure of  the	 `nspector'sreport	was  contrary to principles of	natural	 justice  onwhich  English	law  is based.	It  further  held  that	 theappellant  before  the Board was entitled to a	hearing	 andthat as the appellant had not the opportunity of seeing	 andconsidering the report and the documents which the  decidingauthority had before it, the appellant had been denied	fullopportunity  of	 being	heard.	It went	 to  the  length  ofobserving  that	 the  nondisclosure of the  report  and	 thedocuments  which were taken into consideration by the  Boardwhen   the  disclosure	had  been  asked  for,	was   itselfinconsistent  with natural justice.  Hamilton, L.J., in	 hisdissenting  judgment  pointed  out that the  report  of	 theinspector  in the case, as in other Government	departments,is only a statement of facts made for the information of theofficials of the department and that it could not be assumedthat   the  legislature	 meant	all  such  reports   to	  becommunicated  to those interested where it does not say	 thecontrary.  He further pointed out that the practice was	 theother  way, namely, to specify how and to whom such  reportswere  to  be  communicated, (when they are  intended  to  becommunicated at all.) Dealing with the question how far	 therequirements of natural justice had been fulfilled, the LordJustice	 observed at p. 199 that "It has often been  pointedout  that the expression (natural justice) is sadly  lackingin  precision." Then he referred to a number  of  precedentsdealing	 with the question of natural justice as to how	 theconnotation   of  the  expression  differed   in   differentcontexts.  He further observed at pp. 201 & 202: -113"  The Local Government Board here is a statutory  tribunal,anomalous as compared with common law Courts, created by theLegislature for a special class of appeals and endowed by itwith the power of formulating its own procedure."He  also adopted the dictum of Loreburn, L.C., in  Board  ofEducation v. Rice (supra) that the Board must " act in	goodfaith and fairly listen to both sides."Against	 the judgment of the majority of the Court  quashingthe  determination of the appeal by the Board there  was  anappeal	 to  the  House	 of  Lords.   The  House  of   Lordsunanimously  adopted  the opinion of Hamilton,	L.J.  (laterLord Sumner), allowed the appeal and set aside the  majoritydecision. [Vide Local Government Board v. Arlidge (1)].	  Inthe  course of his speech Viscount Haldane, L.C.,  made	 thefollowing observations:-" My Lords, when the duty of deciding an appeal is  imposed,those  whose duty it is to decide it must act judicially.  ,They  must deal with the question referred to  them  withoutbias,  and  they  must	give to	 each  of  the	parties	 theopportunity  of	 adequately presenting the case	 made.	 Thedecision must be come to in the spirit and with the sense ofresponsibility	of a tribunal whose duty it is to  mete	 outjustice.  But it does not follow that the procedure of everysuch tribunal must be the same."His  Lordship adopted the dictum of Lord Loreburn, L.C.,  inthe  leading  case of Board of Education  v.  Rice  (supra).Lord  Shaw  in his speech made	the  following	observationswhich  are very apposite to the facts and  circumstances  ofthis case:-" The judgments of the majority of the Court below appear tome,  if	 I may say so with respect, to be dominated  by	 theidea  that  the	 analogy of judicial  methods  or  procedureshould apply to departmental action.  Judicial methods	may,in  many points of administration, be  entirely	 unsuitable,and produce delays, expense, and public and private  injury.The department must obey the statute."(1)  [1915] A.C. 120, 132.15114He further observed at p. 138 as follows" And the assumption that the methods of natural justice areex  necessitate	 those	of  Courts  of	justice	 is   whollyunfounded.   This  is  expressly  applicable  to  steps	  ofprocedure  or  forms  of pleading.  In so far  as  the	term'natural  justice' means that a result or process should  bejust,  it  is a harmless though it may	be  a  high-soundingexpression; in so far as it attempts to reflect the old	 jusnaturale it is a confused and unwarranted transfer into	 theethical	 sphere of a term employed for	other  distinctions;and,  in so far as it is resorted to for other purposes,  itis vacuous."Lord  Parmoor  in his speech also reiterated  the  principlegoverning  the	procedure of a quasi  judicial	tribunal  inthese words:-" Where, however, the question of the propriety of procedureis  raised  in a hearing before some tribunal other  than  aCourt  of  law there is no obligation to adopt	the  regularforms  of legal procedure.  It is sufficient that  the	casehas  been heard in a judicial spirit and in accordance	withthe principles of substantial justice."Another recent decision of the House of Lords in the case ofGeneral	 Medical Council v. Spackman (1) was relied upon  bythe  High Court in the judgment under appeal.  In that	casethe  General Medical Council, which had been  constituted  adomestic forum to determine whether a case had been made outfor striking off the name of a medical practitioner from themedical	 register " for infamous conduct in  a	professionalrespect," was the appellant before their Lordships, and	 therespondent  had	 been found guilty by the Divorce  Court  ofhaving	committed adultery.  In the proceedings	 before	 theMedical	 Council the medical practitioner proceeded  againstdesired to call fresh evidence on the issue of adultery	 andrequested  the	Council to rehear that issue.	The  Councildeclined to reopen the issue and to hear fresh evidence	 anddirected his name to be erased from the register.  The Courtof  Appeal unanimously affirmed the view of  the  dissentingJudge in the Court of first instance that there had been no(1)  [1943] A.C. 827.115"  due	inquiry " as required by s. 29 of the  Medical	Act,1858.	The Appeal Court set aside the majority decision  ofViscount  Caldecote, C.J., and Humphreys, J., who  had	heldthat  the  requirements	 of the law had	 been  satisfied  byadopting  the judgment and decree of the Divorce Court.	  Onappeal	by  the Medical Council to the House of	 Lords,	 theHouse unanimously agreed with the unanimous decision of	 theAppeal	Court and held that the requirement of	due  inquiryenjoined  by  the  Act creating the Tribunal  had  not	beensatisfied.  Viscount Simon, L.C., examined the provisions ofthe  Act  and the relevant rules and pointed out  that	theyrequire	 the practitioner proceeded against " to  state	 hiscase,  and  to produce the evidence in support of  it."	 TheLord  Chancellor in the course of his speech  observed	thatthe  General Medical Council was not a judicial body in	 theordinary sense, was master of its own procedure and was	 notbound by strict rules of evidence.  It was bound to  satisfythe  requirements of the law and the rules made	 thereunder.The  Council  had  to decide on sworn  testimony  after	 dueinquiry.   He  also adopted the language of  Lord  Loreburn,L.C.,  in the aforesaid case of Board of Educatian  v.	Rice(supra).  Lord Atkin in the course of his speech pointed outthat  the rules under the Act provided that the Council	 wasbound,	if  requested,	to hear all the	 evidence  that	 thepractitioner  charged wished to bring before them.  He	alsopointed	 out the antithesis between convenience and  justiceby  saying  "  convenience  and justice	 are  often  not  onspeakin-  terms."  His	Lordship  further  pointed  out	 thedifference between the procedure which may be prescribed  inrespect	 of  different	tribunals which	 were  creations  ofstatutes, in these words:-"  Some	 analogy  exists,  no  doubt,  between	the  variousprocedures  of this and other not strictly judicial  bodies,but I cannot think that the procedure which may be very justin  deciding  whether to close a ,school  or  an  insanitaryhouse is necessarily right in deciding a charge of  infamousconduct	 against  a professional man.  I  would,  therefore,demur  to  any suggestion that the words of  Lord  Loreburn,L.C.,  in  -Board  of Education v.  Rice  (supra)  afford  acomplete guide to116the General Medical Council in the exercise of their duties.As  I  have  said, it is not correct that I  they  need	 notexamine witnesses.' They must examine witnesses if tendered,and  their own rules rightly provide for this.	 Further  itappears	 to me very doubtful whether it is true	 that  'theyhave no power to administer an oath'."It  may	 be  noticed that the Lords who	 sat  on  that	caseparticularly emphasized the requirements of the law as	laiddown  in  the statute and the rules framed  thereunder.	  Inview  of those statutory provisions they found it  necessaryto uphold the decision of the Court of Appeal which had	 setaside  the judgment and orders of the King's Bench  Divisionwhich  had taken the con tarry view, to the effect that	 thedecree in the Divorce Court was conclusive evidence on whichthe  Medical  Council  could act.   The	 case  is  thereforeauthority  for	the proposition that the  rules	 of  naturaljustice have to be inferred from the nature of the tribunal,the  scope  of	its  enquiry  and  the	statutory  rules  ofprocedure  laid	 down  by  the	law  for  carrying  out	 theobjectives of the statute.There  is  another class of cases which lay down that  if  aperson is to be deprived of his professional status, he mustbe  heard and be given effective opportunity of meeting	 anyallegation  made against him on the question of his  fitnessto  pursue his profession.  If the tribunal  constituted  bythe  statute in question to decide about the fitness  of  anindividual  to pursue that profession, decides	against	 himwithout giving him an opportunity of meeting any allegationsagainst him bearing on his capacity or qualification for theprofefession to which he claims admission, it has been	heldthat  it  was improper for the tribunal acting in  a  quasi-judicial  capacity to act to his prejudice upon evidence  oradverse report without his having an opportunity of  meetingsuch  relevant allegations made against him.  To that  classbelongs	 the case of R. v. Architects Registration  Tribunal(1).  In that case the King's Bench Division issued an orderof certiorari to, quash(1)  [1945] 2 A.E.R. 131.117  the  tribunal's decision refusing	an  application	 forregistration as an architect.The cases of Leeson v. General Council of Medical  Educationand  Registration  (1), and Allinson v. General	 Council  ofMedical	 Education and Registration (2) also belong to	thatcategory.   They deal with the power of the General  Councilof Medical Education under the Medical Act (21 & 22 Viet. c.90) to strike off a medical practitioner for  unprofessionalconduct.  Those were cases in which the Medical Council	 hadto  function  as a quasi-judicial body and  had	 to  proceedaccording  to  the procedure laid down in the  rules  framedunder  the Act aforesaid.  They had therefore  to  function,not  exactly  as courts of law, but  as	 domestic  tribunalscreated	 by  the  statute  to  function	 according  to	 thestatutory  rules in a fair and just manner, that is to	say,that  they  should have no personal interest  in  the  con;,troversy  and should have given a full and fair	 opportunityto the person proceeded against to place his case before thetribunal.Another class of cases is illustrated by the decision of theCourt  of Appeal in R. v. Archbishop of	 Canterbury(3).	  Inthat  case the Archbishop of Canterbury reviewing the  orderof the Bishop refused to approve the clerk presented by	 thepatron	to a benefice.	Acting under s. 3 of  the  Benefices(Exercise of the Rights of Presentation) Measure, 1931,	 theCourt  repelled the argument on behalf of  the	disappointedpatron	that  as  the decision	involved  a  deprivation  ofproperty rights there was an obligation upon the  Archbishopto  act in a quasijudicial manner.  Lord Greene,  M.R.,	 whodelivered the judgment of the Court, observed that there wasno  " justification for regarding the matter when  it  comesbefore	the  Archbishop as in any sense, or  by	 any  remoteanalogy,  a his inter parties".	 Hence the Court on  a	trueconstruction  of a. 3 of the Measure came to the  conclusionthat  the  Archbishop  was not required	 to  arrive  at	 hisdecision by conducting a quasi-judicial enquiry.  This case,therefore, is an authority for the(1)  [1890] 43 Ch.  D. 366.(2)  [1894] 1 Q.B. 750.(3) [1944] 1 A.E.R. 179.118proposition   that  simply  because  property	rights	 areinvolved, the authorities charged with the duty of  decidingclaims	to such rights are not necessarily, apart  from	 theprovisions  of the statute, required to function  as  quasi-judicial tribunals.As  already  pointed  out, the Appellate  Authority  had  tofunction in a quasi-judicial capacity in accordance with therules made under the Motor Vehicles Act.  That Act has	madeample  provisions  for safeguarding the interests  of  rivalclaimants  for	permits.   The provisions of  the  Act	wereexamined  in detail by a Bench of five Judges of this  Courtin  the case of Veerappa Pillai v. Raman & Raman  Ltd.	(1).This  Court examined elaborately the provisions of  the	 Actvis-a-vis  the authorities created by the Act to  administerits  provisions	 relating  to the grant	 of  stage  carriagepermits.  It also examined how far the High Court exercisingits  special  powers to issue writs under Art.	226  of	 theConstitution  could interfere with the orders made by  thoseauthorities.  In the course of its judgment this Court	madethe  following	observations  at page 596,  which  are	veryrelevant to the present purpose :-"  Thus we have before us a complete and precise scheme	 forregulating the issue of permits, providing what matters	 areto be taken into consideration as relevant, and	 prescribingappeals	 and  revisions from subordinate  bodies  to  higherauthorities.  The remedies for the redress of grievances  orthe correction of errors are found in the statute itself andit is to these remedies that resort must Generally be bad."Keeping in view the observations of this Court quoted  aboveand  the  principles  of natural justice  discussed  in	 theseveral	 authorities  of the highest Courts in	England,  wehave to see how far the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Actand the rules framed thereunder justify the criticism of theHigh  Court that the Appellate Authority did not  give	fulland effective opportunity to the first respondent to presenthis  point  of view before it.	As  already  indicated,	 thestatutory(1)  [1952] S. C. R. 583.119provisions  do	not  contemplate that  either  the  RegionalTransport Authority or the Appellate Authority had to recordevidence  or  to proceed as if they were  functioning  as  acourt  of  law.	  They had to decide  between  a  number  ofapplicants as to which of them was suitable for the grant ofthe fresh permit applied for.  They took into  considerationall  the relevant matters and came to their  decision  whichhas  not  been attacked as partial or  perverse.   The	onlyground which survived before the Appellate Bench of the HighCourt  was that the requirements of natural justice had	 notbeen satisfied.	 The only question that we have to determineis  whether the Appellate Authority was justified  in  usingthe second report made by the police, though it had not beenplaced	into the hands of the parties.	That report did	 notdirectly   contain   any  allegations  against	 the   firstrespondent.  Hence there was nothing in that report which itcould be called upon to meet.  The only effect of the reportwas   that  many  of  the  objections  raised  against	 thesuitability  of	 the  appellant had been  withdrawn  by	 thepolice	on  further  consideration of  their  records.	 Thepolice report is more for the information of the authoritiesconcerned  with the granting of permits than for the use  ofthe  several applicants for such permits.  In  our  opinion,therefore,  the fact that the Appellate Authority  had	readout the contents of the police report was enough  compliancewith the rules of natural justice.  We have also pointed outthat  no  grievance  was  made at  the	time  the  AppellateAuthority  was	hearing the appeal by any  of  the  parties,particularly by the first respondent, that the second reportshould not have been considered or that they wished to	havea  further  opportunity of looking into that report  and  tocontrovert any matter contained therein.  They did not	movethe Appellate Authority for an adjournment of the hearing inorder  to  enable it to meet any of the statements  made  inthat  report.	But the learned counsel for  the  respondentsuggested that the requirements of natural justice could notbe  waived by any of the parties and that it  was  incumbentupon the Appellate Authority to observe the so-called  rulesof natural justice.  In our120opinion,  there is no warrant for such a proposition.	Evenin  a  court  of law a party is not entitled  to  raise	 thequestion  at  the appellate stage that he should  have	beengranted	 an  adjournment which he did not pray	for  in	 thecourt  of  first instance.  Far less, such a  claim  can  beentertained  in	 an appeal from a tribunal which  is  not  acourt  of  justice, but a statutory body  functioning  in  aquasi judicial way.For  the  reasons aforesaid, in our  opinion,  the  judgmentunder  appeal is erroneous and must be set aside and we	 arefurther	 of  the opinion that the judgment  of	the  learnedsingle	Judge of that Court had taken the more correct	viewof  the legal position.	 The appeal is	accordingly  allowedwith costs throughout.Appeal allowed.121