PETITIONER:BADRIDAS DAGA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAXDATE OF JUDGMENT:25/04/1958BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  783		  1959 SCR  690ACT:       Income	Tax-Deduction-Misappropriation	 by   employee-Loss       incidental to the conduct of the business-Indian	 Income-tax       Act, 1922 (II Of 1922), S. 10(1), (2)(Xi), (2)(XV).HEADNOTE:The appellant engaged an agent for the purposes of  carryingon his business and conferred on him large powers of manage-ment including authority to operate on bank accounts.  Whileacting	under such authority the agent withdrew moneys	fromthe  bank  and used them for the discharge of  his  personaldebts.	 The  appellant was able to recover from  the  agentonly  a part of the amount misappropriated by him,  and	 thebalance	 had to be written off at the end of the  accountingyear as irrecoverable.	The question was whether the  amountwhich  was  misappropriated  and  found	 irrecoverable	 wasallowable as a deduction under the Indian Income-tax Act  indetermining the profits of the appellant.Held, that the amount in question is not allowable either asa  bad debt under s. 10(2)(Xi) or as a business	 expenditureunder  S. 10(2)(XV) Of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922.	  Itcan,  however, be deducted in computing the profits  of	 theappellant under691s.   10(1)  of the Act as a loss incidental to the  carryingon of his business.Where an agent or an employee of a businessman in charge  ofthe  business  is  given authority to operate  on  the	bankaccounts  and withdraws moneys in the purported exercise  ofthat authority, his action is referable to his character  assuch  authorised  agent or employee and any  loss  resultingfrom  misappropriation	of  the money by him  would  be	 oneincidental to the carrying on of the business, and it is notnecessary  to  show  that the money was	 withdrawn  for	 theconduct of the business.Curtis v. J. & G. Oldfield, (1925) 9 Tax Cas. 319 and  Rama-swami Chettiar v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras, (1930)I.L.R. 53 Mad. 904, explained and distinguished.Venkatachalapathy Iyer v. Commissioner of Income-tax, (1951)20  I.T.R.  363, Lord's Dairy Farm Ltd. v.  Commissioner  ofIncometax,  (1955) 27 I.T.R. 700 and Motipur  Sugar  FactoryLtd.  v. Commissioner of Income-tax, (1955) 28	I.T.R.	128,approved.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 149 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedDecember 22, 1954, of the former Nagpur High Court in  Misc.Civil Case No. 36 of 1954.R.   J.	 Kolah,	 J.  M.	 Thakar, Ramesh	 A.  Shroff,  J.  B.Dadachanji,  S.	 N.  Andley  and  Rameshwar  Nath,  for	 theappellant.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India,K.N. Rajagopala Sastri and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1958.  April 25.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byVENKATARAMA AIYAR J.-This is an appeal against the  judgmentof the High Court of Nagpur in a reference under s. 66(1) ofthe Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, hereinafter referred to  asthe Act.The  appellant	is  the sole proprietor	 of  a	firm  calledBansilal Abirchand Kasturchand, which carries on business asmoney-lenders, dealers in shares and bullion and  commissionagents	in  Bombay,  Calcutta and other	 places.   He  is  aresident of Bikaner, and manages the692business  at the several places through agents.	 During	 therelevant  period,  the agent of the firm at Bombay  was	 oneChandratan, who held a power-of-attorney dated May 13, 1944,conferring  on	him  large powers  of  management  includingauthority  to operate on bank accounts.	 During the  period,November  15, 1944, to November 23,1944, the agent  withdrewfrom  the  firm's  bank	 account  sums	aggregating  to	 Rs.2,30,636-4-0,  and  applied  them  in  satisfaction  of	 hispersonal  debts	 incurred in speculative  transactions.	  OnNovember  25, 1944, the cashier of the firm sent a  telegramto the appellant informing him of the true state of affairs.Thereupon, the appellant went to Bombay on December 3, 1944,and on the 4th, cancelled the power-of-attorney given to theagent, and by notice dated December 6, 1944, called upon himto  pay the amounts withdrawn by him.  The agent replied  onDecember  8,  1944, admitting the  misappropriation  of	 theamounts	 and  pleading for mercy.  On January  16,1945,	 theappellant  filed  a suit against him in the  High  Court  ofBombay for recovery of Rs. 2,30,636-4-0 and that was decreedon  February  20, 1945.	 A sum of Rs. 28,000  was  recoveredfrom  Chandratan  and adjusted towards the  decree  and	 thebalance	 of Rs. 2,02,442-13-9 was written off at the end  ofthe accounting year as irrecoverable.Before	the Income-tax authorities, the dispute	 related  tothe question whether this amount of Rs. 2,02,442-13-9 was anadmissible deduction.  The Tribunal found that the amount inquestion  represented  the loss sustained by  the  appellantowing to misappropriation by his agent, Chandratan, but heldon  the	 authority  of the decision in Curtis  v.  J.  &  G.Oldfield,  Limited  (1) that it was not a trading  loss	 andtherefore  could not be allowed.  On the application of	 theappellant,  the Tribunal referred the following question  oflaw for the decision of the High Court, Nagpur:Whether the said sum of Rs. 2,02,442-13-9 being part of	 theamount	embezzled by the assessee's Munim is allowable as  adeduction under the Indian Income-(1)  (1925) 9 Tax Cas. 319.693tax  Act  either under Section 10(1) or	 under	the  generalprinciples  of	determining  the  profit  and  loss  of	 theassessee or Section 10(2)(xv) ? "The  learned Judges held that the case was governed  by	 thedecision  in  Curtis v. J. & G. Oldfield, Limited  (1),	 andanswered the question against the appellant.  An applicationunder  s. 66(A)(2) for a certificate was also dismissed	 andthereafter, the appellant applied for and-obtained leave  toappeal	to  this Court under Art. 136, and that is  how	 theappeal comes before us.The  question  whether	moneys	embezzled  by  an  agent  oremployee are allowable as deduction in computing the profitsof  a  business	 under	s. 10 of the Act  has  come  up	 forconsideration  frequently before the Indian courts, and	 thedecisions  have not been quite uniform.	  Before  discussingthem, it is necessary that we should examine the  principlesthat  are  in  law applicable to the  determination  of	 thequestion.  Three grounds have been put forward in support ofthe  claim  for deduction: (1) that the los 3  sustained  byreason	of  embezzlement is a bad debt	allowable  under  s.10(2)(xi)  of  the Act; (2) that it is	a  business  expensefalling within s. 10(2)(xv) of the Act; and (3) that it is atrading loss, which must be taken into account in  computingthe profits under s. 10(1) of the Act.	As regards the firstground,	 the  authorities have consistently  held  that	 thededuction  is not admissible under s. 10(2)(xi) of the	Act,and  that, in our view, is correct.  A debt arises out of  acontract  between the parties, express or implied, and	whenan agent misappropriates monies belonging to his employer infraud  of  him and in breach of his obligations to  him,  itcannot	be  said  that	he  owes  those	 monies	 under	 anyagreement.   He is no doubt liable in law to make good	thatamount,	 but  that  is not an obligation arising  out  of  acontract, express or implied.  Nor does it make a differencethat  in the accounts of the business the amounts  embezzledare  shown as debits, the amounts realised towards them,  ifany,  as  credits, and the balance is finally  written	off.They  are merely journal entries adjusting the accounts	 anddo not import a contractual liability.(1)(1925) 9 Tax Cas. 319.694Nor  can  a  claim  for	 deduction  be	admitted  under	  s.10(2)(xv),  because  moneys  which  are	 withdrawn  by	 theemployee  out of the business till without authority and  infraud  of the proprietor can in no sense be said to be "  anexpenditure  laid out or expended wholly and  exclusively  "for the purpose of the business.  The controversy  thereforenarrows itself to the question whether amounts lost  throughembezzlement  by an employee are a trading loss which  couldbe deducted in computing the profits of a business under  s.10(1).	 It  is to be noted that while s.  10(1)  imposes  acharge	on  the	 profits or gains of a trade,  it  does	 notprovide how those profits are to be computed.  Section 10(2)enumerates various items which are admissible as deductions,but  it is well settled that they are not exhaustive of	 allallowances  which  could  be made  in  ascertaining  profitstaxable	 under	s.  10(1).   In	 Incometax  commissioner  v.chitnavis (1), the point for decision was whether a bad debtcould  be deducted under s. 10(1) of the Act,  there  havingbeen   in   the	 Act,  as  it  then  stood,   no   provisioncorresponding to s. 10(2)(xi) for deduction of such a  debt.In  answering the question in the affirmative,	Lord  Russelobserved:" Although the Act nowhere in terms authorizes the deductionof  bad debts of business, such a deduction  is	 necessarilyallowable.  What are chargeable in income-tax in respect  ofa  business  are  the profits and gains of a  year;  and  inassessing  the	amount of the profits and gains	 of  a	yearaccount	 must necessarily be taken of all  losses  incurred,otherwise  you	would  not arrive at the  true	profits	 andgains."It is likewise well settled that profits and gains which areliable to be taxed under s. 10(1) are what are understood tobe  such according to ordinary commercial  principles.	,Theword  " profits....... is to be understood ", observed	LordHalsbury in Gresham Life Assurance Society v. Styles (2),  "in  its	 natural  and  proper  sense-in	 a  sense  which  nocommercial  man	 would misunderstand ". Referring  to  theseobserva-(1)   (1932) L. R. 59 I.A. 290, 296, 297.(2)(1892) A.C. 309, 315 ; 3 Tax Cas. 185, 188.695tions,	 Lord	Macmillan  said	  in   Pondicherry   RailwayCo.v.Income-tax	 Commissioner (1):" English authorities	 canonly be utilized with caution in the consideration of Indianincome-tax  cases owing to the differences in  the  relevantlegislation, but the principle laid down by Lord  ChancellorHalsbury  in Gresham Life- Assurance Society V. Styles	(2),is of general application unaffected by the specialities  ofthe English tax system.	 "The result is that when a claim is made for a deduction	 forwhich there is no specific provision in s. 10(2), whether itis  admissible or not will depend on whether, having  regardto  accepted commercial practice and trading principles,  itcan be said to arise out of the carrying on of the  businessand  to be incidental to it.  If that is  established,	thenthe  deduction must be allowed, provided of course there  isno prohibition against it, express or implied, in the Act.These  being the governing principles, in  deciding  whetherloss  resulting	 from  embezzlement  by	 an  employee  in  abusiness  is admissible as a deduction under s.	 10(1)	whathas  to	 be  considered	 is whether it	arises	out  of	 thecarrying  on  of  the  business and  is	 incidental  to	 it.Viewing	 the  question	as a  businessman  would,  it  seemsdifficult  to  maintain	 that  it  does	 not.	A   businessespecially  such as is calculated to yield  taxable  profitshas  to be carried on through agents, cashiers,	 clerks	 andpeons.	Salary and remuneration paid to them are  admissibleunder  s. 10(2)(xv) as expenses incurred for the purpose  ofthe business.  If employment of agents is incidental to	 thecarrying  on  of  business, it must  logically	follow	thatlosses	which  are incidental to such  employment  are	alsoincidental to the carrying on of the business.	Human naturebeing  what  it	 is,  it  is  impossible  to  rule  out	 thepossibility of an employee taking advantage of his  positionas  such  employee  and misappropriating the  funds  of	 hisemployer,  and the loss arising from  such  misappropriationmust be held to arise out of the carrying on of business andto be incidental to it.(1)  (1931) L.R. 58 I.A. 239, 252.(2)  (1892) A.C. 309, 315; 3 Tax Cas. 185, 188696And that is how it would be dealt with according to ordinarycommercial principles of trading.At the same time, it should be emphasised that the loss	 forwhich  a deduction could be made under s. 10(1) must be	 onethat  springs directly from the carrying on of the  businessand  is incidental to it and not any loss sustained  by	 theassessee, even if it has some connection with his  business.If,  for example, a thief were to break overnight into	-,hepremises  of a moneylender and run away with  funds  securedtherein, that must result in the depletion of the  resourcesavailable  to  him for lending and the loss  must,  in	thatsense, be a business loss, but it is not one incurred in therunning	 of the business, but is one to which all owners  ofproperties are exposed whether they do business or not.	 Theloss in such a case may be said to fall on the assessee	 notas  a  person carrying on business but as  owner  of  funds.This  distinction,  though fine, is very material as  on  itwill  depend whether deduction could be made under s.  10(1)or not.We  may	 now  examine the authorities in the  light  of	 theprinciples   stated   above.   In   Jagarnath	Therani	  v.Commissioner  of  Income-tax (1), the facts  were  that	 theassessee who was carrying on business entrusted a sum of Rs.25,000	to  his gumastha for payment to a creditor,  but  heembezzled it.  The question referred for the opinion of	 theHigh  Court  was  whether  that	 sum  could  be	 allowed  asdeduction in the computation of profits.  In answering it inthe affirmative, the learned Judges observed that  accordingto  the	 practice obtaining in England,	 sums  embezzled  byemployees  were	 allowed  as  deductions  and  referred	  tostatements  of the law to that effect from Sanders'  Income-tax  and Super-tax, Murray and Carters' Guide to  Income-taxPractice   and	to  the	 following  passage  in	  Snellings'Dictionary of Income-tax and Super-Tax Practice:,,If  a loss by embezzlement can be said to  be	 necessarilyincurred  in  carrying	on the trade  it  is  allowable	 as.deduction  from	 profits.  In an ordinary  case	 it  springsdirectly from the necessity of deputing(1)(1925) I.L.R. 4 Pat. 385.697certain	 duties	 to  an employee, and  should  therefore  beallowed.  "They accordingly allowed the deduction as "a loss incidentalto the conduct of the business".In Ramaswami Chettiar v. Commissioner of Income-Tax,  Madras(1),  the  assessee  was carrying  on  banking	business  inseveral	 places in India and in Burma.	On October 21,	1926thieves broke into the strong room in the business  premisesat  Moulmiengyum  and stole cash and currency notes  of	 thevalue  of Rs. 9,335.  The question was whether	this  amountcould  be  allowed  as	a deduction.  It  was  held  by	 themajority  of  the  Jndges  that it could  not  be.   In	 thejudgment  of  the learned Chief Justice, the  law  was	thusstated:" If any one is paid a sum due to him as profits and he putsthat  in his pocket and on his way home is robbed of it,  itwould be, I think, difficult to contend that such a loss wasincidental  to	his  business.	Still more so  when  he	 hasreached	 his home and put those profits in a strong room  orsome other place regarded by him to be a place of safety.  1can  well understand that, in cases where the collection  ofprofits	 or payment of debts due is entrusted to a  gumasthaor servant for collection and that person runs away with themoney  or otherwise improperly deals with it,  the  assesseeshould	be allowed a deduction because such a loss  as	thatwould  be  incidental  to his business.	 He  has  to  employservants for the purpose of collecting sums of money due  tohim and there is the risk that such servant may prove to  bedishonest  and	instead of paying the profits over  to	him,convert	 them to his own use.  But I cannot distinguish	 thepresent case from the case of any professional man or traderwho, having collected his profits, is subsequently robbed ofthem  by a stranger to his business.  In this case, none  ofthe thieves were the then servants of the assessee, althoughone of them had formerly been his cook.	 "These  observations,  while they support the  right  of	 theasssee to deduction of loss resulting from(1)(1930) I.L. R. 53 Mad. 904, 906, 907.698embezzlement by an employee, also show the extent and limitsof that right.In  Bansidhar  Onkarmal V.  Commissioner of  Incometax	(1),there  was  a theft of money by an accountant, but  it	tookplace after the office hours, and it was held, following thedecision in Ramaswami Chettiar v. Commissioner of Income-tax(2)  that  it could not be allowed as a deduction  under  s.10(1)  of the Act, as it was not incidental to the  carryingon  of the trade.  But it was observed by Narasimham J.	 whodelivered  the	leading judgment that it might have  made  adifference  if the theft had been by the  accountant  duringthe office hours.  In Venkatachalapathy Iyer v. Commissionerof  Income-tax (3), the assessees were a firm  of  merchantsengaged in the business of selling yarn.  Its accountant wasone  Rajarathnam lyengar, whose duty it was to receive	cashon sales, make disbursements and maintain accounts.  He dulyentered	 all  the  transactions in the cash  book  but	whenstriking  the  balance	at the end of  each  day  he  short-totalled the receipts and overtotalled the disbursements andmisappropriated	 the difference.  The question	was  whetherthe  amounts thus embezzled could be deducted.	On a  reviewof  the authorities, Satyanarayana Rao and Raghava  Rao	 JJ.held that the loss was incidental to the carrying on of	 thebusiness and should be allowed.	 The appellant contends thatthis  decision is decisive in his favour ; but	the  learnedJudges	of the Court below were of the opinion that  on	 thefacts it was distinguishable and that the present case	fellwithin	the decision in Curtis v. J. & G. Oldfield,  Limited(4).It is necessary to examine the decision in Curtis v.J. &  G.oldfield  (4) somewhat closely, as the main  controversy  inthe  Indian  courts  has  been	as  to	what  was  preciselydetermined therein.  There, the facts were that the managingdirector  of a company who was in exclusive control  of	 itsbusiness,  had,	 availing himself of his  position  as	suchmanaging director, withdrawn large amounts from time to timeand applied them to his own personal affairs.  This went  onfor(1)  [1949] 17 I.T.R. 247.(3)  [1951] 20 I.T.R. 363.(2)  (1930) I.L.R. 53 Mad. 904, 906, 907.(4)  (1925) 9 Tax Cas. 319.699several years prior to his death, and thereafter, the  fraudwas  discovered,  and  the amounts  overdrawn  by  him	werewritten	 off  as irrecoverable.	 The  question	was  whetherthese  amounts could be allowed as a deduction, and  it	 wasanswered  in  the negative by Rowlatt J. Now, it  should  beobserved  that	the learned Judge did not say  that  amountsembezzled by an employee in the course of business would notbe admissible deductions.  On the other hand, he observed:"  I  quite  think,  with Mr. Latter, that  if	you  have  abusiness......	in  the course of which you have  to  employsubordinates, and owing to the negligence or the  dishonestyof the subordinates some of the receipts of the business  donot  find their way into the till, or some of the bills	 arenot collected at all, or something of that sort, that may bean  expense connected with and arising out of the  trade  inthe most complete sense of the word."He went on to observe:" I do not see that there is any evidence at all that  therewas  a loss in the trade in that respect.  It  simply  meansthat the assets of the Company moneys which the Company	 hadgot  and  which had got home to the Company,  got  into	 thecontrol of the Managing Director of the Company, and he tookthem out.  It seems to me that what has happened is that  hehas  made  away with, receipts of the Company  de  hors	 thetrade  altogether  in  virtue of his  position	as  ManagingDirector in the office and being in a position to do exactlywhat he likes."Thus,  what  the  learned Judge really	finds  is  that	 theembezzlement  was not connected with the carrying on of	 thetrade but was outside it, and on that finding, the  decisioncan  only be that the deduction should be  disallowed.	 Butthe  learned Judges in the Court below would appear to	haveread  the above observations as meaning that, as a  rule  oflaw, embezzlements made prior to the receipts of the amountsby  the assessees would be incidental to the carrying on  ofthe  trade and therefore admissible, but that  embezzlements89700made after receipt are not connected with the carrying on ofthe trade and are therefore inadmissible.  We do not so readthose  observations.  It is a question turning on the  factsof  each case whether the embezzlement in respect  of  whichdeduction  is claimed took place in the carrying on  of	 thebusiness, and the observations of the learned Judge that  itdid  not so take place have reference to the facts  of	thatcase, and can afford no assistance in deciding whether in  agiven case the embezzlement was incidental to the conduct ofthe business or not.Now,  in Curtis v. J. & G. Oldfield Limited(1), the  companywas  doing  business  in  wine and spirit,  and	 in  such  abusiness it is possible to hold that when once the price  isrealised  and put into the bank, the trading has ceased	 andthat  the subsequent operations on the bank account are	 notincidental  to the carrying on of the trade.  But  here,  weare  dealing  with  a banking business,	 which	consists  inmaking	advances, realising them and making fresh  advances,and for that purpose, it is necessary not merely to  depositamounts in banks but also to withdraw them.  That is to say,a continuous operation on the bank account is incidental  tothe  conduct  of the business.	The theory  that  when	oncemoneys are put into the bank they have " got home " and thattheir  subsequent withdrawal from the bank would be de	horsthe business, will be altogether out of place in a  businesssuch  as banking.  It will be a wholly unrealistic  view  totake  of  the  matter, to hold that  the  realisations	havereached	 the till when they are deposited in the  bank,	 andthat  that marks the terminus of the business activities  inmoney-lending.It  should  also  be mentioned that in	Curtis	v.  J.	&'G.oldfield (1) though the assessee was a company, it was foundthat the shares were all held by the members of the Oldfieldfamily, that the company had no auditor and no minutes book,that there was Cc an almost entire absence of balance sheets",  and that one of the members, Mr. J. E. Oldfield, was  inmanagement with wide powers.  In view of the fact that he(1) (1925) 9 Tax Cas. 319.701had a large number of shares in the company and that it	 wasin  substance  a private company, his withdrawals  would  bemore  like a partner overdrawing his account with  the	firmthan  an agent embezzling the funds of his employer, and  itcould properly be held that such overdrawing has nothing  todo  with the trading activities of the firm,  whose  profitsare  to	 be  taxed.  It would, therefore,  be  an  error  tosuppose	 that  the observations made by Rowlatt	 J.  in	 theabove  context	could be regarded as an	 authority  for	 thebroad proposition that as a matter of law, and	irrespectiveof  the	 nature	 of business, there  could  be	no  businessactivities  with  reference to moneys after they  have	beencollected,  and that, in consequence,  embezzlement  thereofcould not be incidental to the carrying on of business.	 Andwe  should further add that it would make no  difference  inthe  admissibility  of the deduction  whether  the  employeeoccupies  a subordinate position in the establishment or  isan agent with large powers of management.Subsequent to the decision now under appeal, the Bombay HighCourt had occasion to consider this question in Lord's DairyFarm Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax (1).  On a review ofthe authorities including the decision in Curtis v. J. &  G.Oldfield,  Limited (2), Chagla C. J. and Tendolkar  J.	heldthat loss caused to a business by defalcation of an employeewas  a trading loss, and that it could be deducted under  s.10(1).	 In  Motipur Sugar Factory Ltd. v.  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax (3), an employee who had been entrusted with	 thefunds  of  a  company for  purposes  of	 distribution  amongsugarcane  growers in accordance with statutory	 rules,	 wasrobbed	of  them on the way.  It was held by  Ramaswami	 andSahai JJ. that the loss was incidental to the conduct of thetrade, and must be allowed.  We agree with the decisions  inVenkatachalapathy  Iyer	 v. Commissioner of  Incometax	(4),Lord's Dairy Farm Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax (1) andMotipur Sugar Factory Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax(3).     (1) [1955] 27 I.T.R. 700.(2)  (1925)  9  Tax  Cas.319.     (3) [1955] 28 I.T.R. 128.(4) [1951] 20 I.T.R. 363.702It was argued for the respondent that there was no evidence,much  less proof, that when Chandratan withdrew	 funds	fromthe  bank, he did so for the purpose of making any  advance,and  that,  therefore, the withdrawal could not be  held  tohave  been  for	 the conduct of the  trade.   That,  in	 ouropinion, is not necessary.  When once it is established thatChandratan  was	 in  charge of the  business,  that  he	 hadauthority to operate on the bank accounts, and that he with-drew the moneys in the purported exercise of that authority,his  action is referable to his character as agent, and	 anyloss  resulting from misappropriation of funds by him  wouldbe a loss incidental to the carrying on of the business.  Itwas also contended that the power-of-attorney dated May	 13,1944,  under which Chandratan was constituted agent  relatednot  only to the business of the appellant but also  to	 hisprivate	 affairs,  and	that there was	no  proof  that	 theembezzlement  was in respect of the business assets  of	 theappellant  and not of his private funds.  No  such  questionwas  raised  before the Income-tax  authorities,  and  theirfinding	 assumes that the moneys which were  misappropriatedwere business funds.  We are also not satisfied that, on itstrue construction,, the authority conferred on the agent  bythe  power-of.attorney extended to the personal	 affairs  ofthe appellant.In the result, we are of opinion that the loss sustained  bythe appellant as a result of misappropiriation by Chandratanis  one	 which	is incidental to the  carrying,	 on  of	 hisbusiness, and that it should therefore deducted in computingthe  profits under s. 10(1) of the, Act.  In this view,	 theorder of the lower court must be set aside and the referenceanswered  in the, affirmative.	The appellant will  get	 hiscosts  of  this	 appeal and of the reference  in  the  Courtbelow.appeal allowed.703