PETITIONER:IN RE: SHRI 'M', AN ADVOCATE OFTHE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA.	Vs.RESPONDENT:DATE OF JUDGMENT:17/10/1956BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.CITATION: 1957 AIR  149		  1956 SCR  811ACT:Professional Misconduct-Appropriation by Advocate on  recordof Surplus Paper Book Cost towards fees-Legality-Standard ofprofessional  conduct-Trustee-Lien-Procedure-Supreme   CourtRules, 1950, (as amended), O. IV, r. 30.HEADNOTE:Facts.	Shri 'M', while an Agent of the Supreme Court, fileda criminal appeal and later on became an Advocate on  recordunder  the new rules of the Court which came into  force  onJanuary	 26,  1954.  He received a sum of Rs. 750  from	 hisclient for costs of printing of the Paper Book and depositedthe  same in the Punjab High Court from whose  decision	 theappeal arose.  There was a surplus of Rs. 242-1-9 pies.	  Hewithdrew  the amount without informing his client,  made  nodemand	of any fees as being due to him, did not  lodge	 anybill  for  taxation  and appropriated the  sum	towards	 hisalleged	 fees.	 The client came to know of  the  withdrawalfrom  the Punjab High Court and when he confronted Shri	 'M'with the letter from that court Shri 'M', who had denied thereceipt	 of  the surplus amount, could no longer do  so	 andstated that he was entitled to a reasonable fee, had a	liontherefor and had appropriated the amount.Held,  that  on the facts found the Advocate was  guilty  ofprofessional misconduct and must be suspended from practice.The  high standard of professional conduct  contemplated  byrule  30  of Order IV of the Supreme Court  Rules  virtuallymade an Advocate a trustee for his client in respect of	 allhis  moneys  which  came  into his  hands  except  what	 wasspecifically  ear-marked for fees.  Any lien which he  mighthave under the rules would not justify the appropriation  ofany  such  money  towards his fees without  the	 express  orimplied consent of the client or an order of Court.Nor  could an Advocate, in absence of a prior settlement  offees,  constitute  himself  a judge in	his  own  cause	 anddetermine what812would  be reasonable fees payable to him.  It might be	thatin certain circumstances he was entitled to exercise a lien,but he had to give reasonable intimation both of the fact ofmoneys having come into his hands and of the exercise of hislien over them until his account was settled.The  principle	of trusteeship applied	with  greater  forcewhere  the surplus money, as in the instant case, was  meantfor  a	specific  purpose, it being  well  settled  that  inrespect of such a money there could be no lien either  underthe common law or the statute.That in a case such as the present, the standard  applicableto an Agent under rules 31 and 32 of the old rules would  bethe same.In  the matter of Mr. G., a Senior Advocate of	the  SupremeCourt, ([1955] 1 S.C.R. 490), followed.Held  further,	that  as the Supreme  Court  Rules  did	 notspecifically prescribe any procedure for cases coming  underr.  30	of  0.	IV of the Rules, in  the  instant  case	 theprocedure substantially as in a warrant case under s.  251-A(as  amended)  of the Code of Criminal Procedure  should  beadopted	 as  far  as  possible	subject	 to  such  just	 andexpedient  modifications  as  accorded	with  the  rules  ofnatural justice.JUDGMENT:DISCIPLINARY JURISDICTION.In  the	 matter	 of summons under Order 4, Rule	 30  of	 theSupreme Court Rules, 1950 (as amended).Purshottam Tricumdas, B. B. Tawakley, G. C. Mathur and K. P.Gupta, for the Advocate.M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, and B.   SenAssisting the Court.1956.  October 17.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyJAGANNADHADAS J.-These proceedings before us arise out of  asummons under Order IV, rule 30 of the Supreme Court  Rules,1950, (as amended) issued to Shri 'M', who was originally anAgent of this Court and became an "Advocate on record" underthe new rules of this Court which came into force on January26,  1954.  The summons issued calls upon him to show  causewhy disciplinary action should not be taken against him.  Itarises	on a complaint against him made to the Registrar  ofthis  Court  by one Attar Singh on December  5,	 1955.	 Thesubstance of that813complaint is as follows.  The complainant was the  appellantin  Criminal Appeal No. 12 of 1950 in this Court.  Shri	 'M'acted  for him in connection with the appeal.  A sum of	 Rs.750  was  supplied  to Shri 'M'	 for  the  printing  chargestherein.  This sum was deposited in due course in the PunjabHigh  Court  from  whose judgment the  appeal  arose'  Thereremained an unspent balance of Rs. 242-1-9 out of it.	Shri'M'  withdrew  that money from the High	 Court	without	 theauthority  and	the knowledge of  the  complainant.   When.,later  on, the complainant became aware of it,	he  demandedrefund	of the same.  Shri 'M' first denied receipt  of	 themoney,	and  thereafter refused to refund it  (claiming,  asappears	 later.	 in the evidence, to  have  appropriated  ittowards	 the balance of fees said to be due to	him).	Thiscomplaint was in the usual course put up before his Lordshipthe  Chief  Justice  who  directed  the	 Chamber-Judge,	 ourlearned	 brother,  Bhagwati,J.,to enquire into	it.  Noticeswere  issued thereupon both to Shri 'M' and the	 complainantas  well  as  to three other Advocates	of  this  Court	 whohappened  to  be associated with that appeal.	The  enquirybefore	the  learned Judge was fairly  elaborate.   Thereat,certain	 conclusions  were  reached on the  basis  of  whichcharges	 were framed against Shri 'M'.	The present  summonsto  Shri  'M' is with reference to those  charges  and	thisBench  has been constituted as a Special Bench	under  OrderIV,  rule  30 of the Supreme Court Rules to deal  with	thismatter.	  The  learned	Attorney-General  has  appeared,  onnotice, to assist the Court.The rules of this Court do not provide for the procedure  tobe  adopted  in such cases, except to say  that	 "the  Courtshall  issue,  in the first instance, a	 summons  returnablebefore the Court or before a Special Bench to be constitutedby  the	 Chief	Justice	 to  show  cause  against  specifiedmatters.   There  have been no precedents of this  Court  sofar,  to  indicate the exact procedure to be  adopted.	 Theonly  previous case of, professional misconduct	 on  summonsunder  Order  IV, rule 30 of the Supreme Court	Rules  whichthis Court had occasion to deal with, was that reported106814in  In	the  matter of Mr. 'G'	a  Senior  Advocate  of	 theSupreme	 Court(1).  But that was a case in which action	 hadbeen  duly  taken against the Advocate by  the	Bombay	HighCourt  in connection with alleged misconduct arising  withinits  jurisdiction.   The summons issued to the	Advocate  bythis  Court  was with reference to the same  matter  but  asregards	 his  position	as a  Supreme  Court  Advocate.	 (Weunderstand  that  there	 were also two	such  cases  in	 theFederal	 Court).  In the normal course, and in view  of	 therather	elaborate  enquiry which was held  by  our,  learnedbrother, Bhagwati J., we should have been content to confineourselves  to  a mere hearing of arguments on  the  materialrecorded  in  that enquiry and come to our  own	 conclusionswith  reference to the charges set out in the summons.	 Butat  the outset, objection was taken to our adopting  such  acourse.	 The validity of the summons was questioned.  It wassaid  that  under  Order IV, rule 30 of	 the  Supreme  CourtRules, the enquiry was to follow a summons which is  contem-plated as the first step therein.  It was also said that theenquiry having been in Chambers, the statements of witnesseswere  not  on oath.  The learned Attorney-General  was	alsoinclined  to  think that there was force in  the  objectionsraised.	  After discussion in court with'.the  Advocates  onboth sides we felt it desirable to refrain from any decisionon   the  preliminary  objection  and  to  give	 the   Agentcomplained  against, the opportunity of a fresh	 enquiry  inopen  Court on formulated charges.  We accordingly  directedby  our	 orders dated May 9, 1956, and September  13,  1956,that  evidence	should be taken afresh before  us  and	thatprocedure,  substantially  as in a warrant case,  should  beadopted	 as far as possible under the amended section  251-Aof   the   Criminal   Procedure	 Code,	 subject   to	suchmodifications therein as may appear to be just and expedientin the circumstances of this case and without affecting	 therules  of  natural  justice.   We  treated  the	 enquiry  inChambers  as  a preliminary enquiry and heard  arguments  onboth sides with reference to the matter of that enquiry.  We(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 490.815came  to  the  conclusion  that this  was  not	a  case	 fordischarge  at  that  stage.   We  accordingly  reframed	 thecharges	 framed	 by our learned brother,  Bhagwati  J.,	 andadded  a fresh charge.	No objection has been taken to	thiscourse.	 But it is as well to mention that, in our  opinion,the terms of Order IV, rule 30 of the Supreme Court Rules donot  preclude  us from adopting this course,  including	 thereframing  of,	or adding to, the charges specified  in	 theoriginal  summons,  where the material	at  the	 preliminaryenquiry justifies the same.  The fresh enquiry before us  inCourt has proceeded with reference to the. following chargesas reframed and added to by us."You)  CM) ' once an Agent of this Court and  thereafter  anAdvocate on record of this Court, are guilty of professionalmisconduct in that,Firstly, you having deposited a sum of Rs. 750 in the PunjabHigh Court towards the printing charges of the appeal  paperbook  in  Supreme Court Appeal No. 12 of 1950 on  behalf  ofyour  client,  Attar Singh, and having the  custody  of	 thereceipt	 issued by the Punjab High Court in respect  of	 thesame,  applied for. and obtained from the Punjab High  Courtwithout the authority of your client Attar Singh the balanceof Rs. 242-1-9 in the month of March 1952.Secondly,  that after obtaining the said sum of Rs.  242-1-9as  above from the Punjab High Court you retained  that	 sumwith you and did not return any part thereof to your client,Attar Singh, even though he frequently called upon you to doso  and even though', you are not entitled to  recover	fromhim  by way of your professional charges anything  beyond  asum  of	 Rs.  72-15-6 by reason of  your  having  agreed  toreceive a sum of only Rs. 100 towards your fee and no more.Thirdly, that you after receiving the sum of Rs. 242-1-9  inMarch 1952, retained the said sum, without any intimation toyour  client Attar Singh and without claiming any amount  asdue  from  him by way of fees to you and without  lodging  abill  for  taxation against him for a period of	 over  threeyears".816The undisputed facts are as follows.  The complainant, AttarSingh,	engaged	 a  Senior Advocate  of	 this  Court  SardarRaghbir Singh, who associated with himself Shri M. K.  Madanas  the	 Junior Advocate and Shri 'M' as the  Agent  in	 thecase.  Criminal Appeal No. 12 of 1950 was filed by all thesethree gentlemen with reference to a Vakalatnama executed  bythe  complainant, Attar Singh, in favour of the Agent,	Shri'M'.  The complainant had to deposit a sum of Rs. 750 in thePunjab High Court for the preparation. of the printed recordin the appeal.	Shri 'M' was entrusted with a bank draft forthe said amount.  He deposited it in the Punjab High  Court.A receipt for the amount was issued in Shri 'M's name.	 Theprinted record in the case was made ready and dispatched  tothe   Supreme  Court  about  the  end  of  December,   1951.Thereafter Shri 'M' applied to the High Court for refund  ofthe  unspent  balance.	He received from the High  Court  inMarch, 1952, the sum of Rs. 242-1-9 as the unspent  balance.This amount has not been paid to the complainant by Shri 'M'who  claims to have appropriated it towards fees said to  bedue to him.Now the case of the complainant is this.  When he filed	 theappeal	he was impecunious as be bad lost his job by  reasonof  his	 conviction.  He approached  Sardar  Raghbir  Singh,Senior Advocate, through a relation of his and requested himto  arrange for the conduct of the appeal on his behalf	 andto  accept  therefor  a fee of Rs. 600	and  no	 -more,	 forhimself, a ,Junior Advocate to assist him as well as for  anAgent  to  be  in charge, all taken  together.	 It  is	 thecomplainant's  case that Sardar Raghbir Singh agreed to	 thesame  and  was paid the said amount of Rs. 600 at  the	veryoutset,	 i.e.,	a few days before the actual filing  of	 theappeal	 memorandum  into  this	 Court	and  that  he	(thecomplainant)  was not directly concerned with the fixing  upof the Junior Advocate and of the Agent or with the internaldistribution of the said sum of Rs. 600 as between the threepersons.   His	case accordingly is that Shri  'M'  was	 notentitled  to any further amount by way of fees and  that  heunautho-		    817risedly	 withdrew  the amount and  appropriated	 it  towardsalleged	 fees.	 Attar	Singh,	the  complainant,  has	beenexamined  in support of his case.  Sardar Raghbir Singh	 andShri Madan have also been examined to substantiate it.	 Theevidence of.  Sardar Raghbir Singh is that he was approachedby Attar Singh through a common friend, that he was asked toaccept a consolidated fee of Rs. 600,, that in	consultationwith  a Junior Advocate, Shri Madan, whom he knew  well,  heaccepted the engagement, that Shri Madan brought in Shri 'M'as the Agent and that the amount of Rs. 600 was paid to	 himby  Attar Singh and was shared by the three Rs. 300 for	 theSenior,	 Rs. 200 for the Junior, and Rs. 100 for the  Agent.His  evidence  is  that	 Shri  'M'  was	 not  known  to	 himpreviously  but that he was fixed by Shri Madan,  that	ShriMadan  informed him about Shri 'M' having agreed  to  acceptthe engagement for a fee of Rs. 100 without more and that inpursuance  of this arrangement the said sum of Rs.  100	 waspaid over to Shri 'M' and Rs. 200 to Shri Madan.  The JuniorAdvocate, Shri Madan, has been examined to substantiate thatit  was he who fixed Shri 'M' as the Agent in the case	withthe arrangement that the Agent should charge only Rs. 100 ashis fee.  The evidence of these three persons, Attar  Singh,Sardar	Raghbir Singh and Shri Madan, is that all the  abovetook place a few days prior to the filing of the appeal intoCourt.	 The  appeal was admittedly filed on the  11th	May,1950.  Shri 'M' has offered himself as a witness on his	 ownbehalf	He admitted that be was fixed up as an Agent in	 theappeal	through Shri Madan at the request of Sardar  RaghbirSingh,	but he says that he is not aware of any	 arrangementbetween	 the complainant and Sardar Raghbir Singh  or  aboutthe payment of Rs. 600 by the complainant to Sardar  RaghbirSingh on the alleged arrangement.  He says that, having beentaken  as an Agent into the case by Sardar Raghbir Singh  onthe recommendation of Shri Madan, he was paid at the time offiling	of  the appeal only a sum of Rs. 50 by	Attar  Singhhimself	 as part payment of his fees and was  promised	thatreasonable fee818would  be  paid	 later on.  He denies  that  there  was	 anyunderstanding or arrangement that only a sum of Rs. 100	 Wasto  be	paid  to him and also denies that he  was  paid	 'bySardar	Raghbir Singh the sum of Rs. 100.   To	substantiatethat  the alleged arrangement to accept only Rs.  100  couldnot  be true, he gives evidence that even the  Junior,	ShriMadan, sent to him in August, 1952, a bill for Rs. 320 whichhe  says  he  passed  on to Attar -Singh  and  of  which  hepurports  to produce a copy.  But Shri Madan denies that  heever  sent  such  a  bill and Attar  Singh  denies  that  hereceived any such.The  controversy  on  this part of the case  is	 covered  bycharge number two.  The two material facts which have to  bedetermined  are (1) whether the Agent, Shri 'M',  came	intothis case on a definite arrangement that his entire fee	 forthe  case was to be Rs. 100, and (2) whether he was in	factpaid the said sum of Rs. 100 by Sardar Raghbir Singh at	 theoutset.	  The complainant, Attar Singh, is Dot by himself  adirect	witness either to the arrangement or to the fact  ofpayment	 of Rs. 100.  The only material fact which he  spoketo  on this part of the case is as to his  arrangement	withSardar	Raghbir	 Singh.	  It was that he should	 fix  up,  aJunior Advocate and ail Agent of his own choice, and  acceptthe  sum  of  Rs.  600 as fees for all	the  three  of	themtogether  without claiming anything more He says  also	thatthe.  said sum of Rs. 600 was paid by him to Sardar  RaghbirSingh  at the very outset.  Sardar Raghbir Singh admits	 thepayment.  There is no reason to doubt that a sum of Rs.	 600was  in fact paid by Attar Singh to Sardar Raghbir  Singh  afew  days  before the actual filing of the  appeal  in	May,1950,  though  Shri  'M' denies knowledge  of  it.   On	 theevidence as given before us,, Shri Madan is the only  directwitness	 to the arrangement with Shri 'M' that a sum of	 Rs.100  is to be paid to him and that he should  claim  nothingmore  for  the conduct of the entire  case  The	 arrangementitself was not made in the presence of Sardar Raghbir  Singhbut  it	 is  Sardar Raghbir Singh's  evidence  that  he	 wasinformed about it by Shri Madan.819It is also Sardar Raghbir Singh's evidence that in pursuancethereof	 Shri  'M'  was paid by him Rs. 100.   Thus  on	 theevidence, as given, Shri Madan is the direct witness for thearrangement  and Sardar Raghbir Singh is the direct  witnessfor the payment and each became aware of the other fact fromthe conversations between them at the time and in the courseof  events.  The evidence of both these gentlemen  has	beencommented  upon and criticised by the learned  Advocate	 forShri 'M'.  It has been pointed out that these two  gentlemenbad, in these proceedings, occasion to speak to the facts atthree stages, first in answer to letters of enquiry  writtento  each  of them by the Registrar of this Court  after	 thecomplaint  was filed and Shri 'M' filed his answer  thereto,next  when  they were examined formally before	the  learnedJudge in Chambers, and now when they are examined before  uson  oath.   It	is pointed out that  there  are	 substantialvariations   and  developments	in  their   versions.	 Theexplanation given by both of them for the variations is thatat  the	 earlier  stages  they did not	desire	to  be	morespecific or categorical since they were given to  understandthat the matter would somehow be adjusted, that they did notwant to harm Shri 'M' and that the lines on which they	wereto answer the enquiry from the Registrar, were discussed  ina  conference  between	themselves and	Shri  'M'  with	 hisAdvocates.   Shri  'M'	also admits that there	was  such  aconference.   It is urged by the learned Advocate  appearingfor Shri 'M' that this very explanation offered by these twogentlemen  shows that their word, even before us, is not  tobe  taken  at its face value.  It is also pointed  out	thatneither of the Advocates could produce any accounts to	sub-stantiate  the	payments alleged to have been made,  nor  aneach record or note as to the amount of fees fixed for andthe  arrangement with Shri 'M' that has been spoken to.,  Onthe other hand, they admit that they maintain no accounts atall.   It  does	 not  also appear  that	 they  maintain	 anysatisfactory  diaries  or  other  record  which	 might	havecorroborated  their evidence.  The learned  Attorney-Generalwhile820fairly conceding that there is good deal of room for comment'about	the evidence of these two gentlemen, urges  that  weshould attach greater value to their present evidence  givenon  oath particularly in view of the fact that both of	themadmit the complainant's story that Rs. 600 was all that	 wasintended  to  be paid for all the three	 together  and	theycategorically  admit  that they have themselves	 no  furtherclaim  against the complainant for the work done  by  them.,The learned Attorney-General submits that it is unreasonableto  suppose that while both of them  accepted  comparativelysmall  fees  for the whole case, the Agent,  Shri  'M',	 waspromised 'a reasonable fee" without any fixation.  He  urgesfurther	 that  on his own admission, Shri 'M' can  point  tonothing	 in  the  diaries or registers	said  to  have	beenmaintained by him for his cases, which may substantiate	 hisversion.   He also urges that in view of  the  probabilitiesand the evidence we should accept not merely that there	 wasa definite arrangement with Shri 'M' to accept only Rs.	 100for  the entire case but also that he was in fact  paid	 thesaid sum of Rs. 100 then and there.  After having given	 ourconsideration  to the entire evidence on this part  'of	 thecase,  we are of the opinion that we should dispose of	thiscase  without  coming  to any  definite	 conclusion  on	 thedisputed  facts, material for this issue.  All that we	needsay  is	 that we are not quite happy about the	evidence  onboth  sides  bearing  on this matter.  We  are	inclined  torefrain from recording a categorical finding on this  issue,which  if found against Shri 'M', may amount virtually to  afinding	 of  criminal misappropriation.	 We are	 willing  todispose	 of this issue in favour of Shri 'M' by giving	him,so  far as these proceedings are concerned, the	 benefit  ofdoubt  in  respect of the disputed facts  material  to	thisissue.The  matter arising under charge No. 1 may also	 be  shortlydisposed of.  The question under that charge is whether, forwithdrawing the unspent balance from the Punjab High  Court,Shri  'M'  had the requisite authority.	 In support  of	 thealleged	 authority,  be relies both  on	 specific  authoritygiven to him orally821by or on behalf of the complainant, Attar Singh, and also onthe  authority in his favour for the withdrawal	 as  impliedfrom  the wording of the Vakalatnama executed in his  favourby  Attar  Singh.  The evidence in support of  the  specificoral authority is his sole statement before us on oath.	  Hedeposes that he was authorised by the relation (or pairokar)of  the complainant, Attar Singh, (who used to go to him  inconnection with the appeal) to withdraw the unspent  balancefrom  the High Court.  He stated that he was unable to	givethe  name of the pairokar but that he was sitting in  Court,while  be  was	giving	evidence  before  us.	The  allegedrelation  or  pairokar has not been examined  as  a  defencewitness.   In  the proceedings before our  learned  brother,Bhagwati  J.,  his  version  on this part  of  the  case  iscontained  in  paragraph 8 of his affidavit  dated  the	 5thMarch, 1956, which is as follows:"I  requested  Attar Singh to remit  funds  for	 prosecutingappeal	on  21-12-51 and with his permission ,wrote  to	 theHigh  Court on 17-1-52 for refund of the balance out of	 Rs.750.  Thus I received Rs. 242-1-9 from High Court in  March,1952".This  clearly indicates that his 'Case then was that he	 hadthe permission of Attar Singh himself for withdrawal of	 thebalance.   But	when examined before  our  learned  brother,Bbagwati J., be said as follows:"Somebody  asked me to get the money from the High Court  tomeet the expenses.  Subsequently I wrote to the High Court".in answer to the specific question who that somebody was  hesaid  "I  do not remember exactly who it was".	He  did	 notthen say that he was the complainant's relation or pairokar.In  his	 cross-examination  before us he  says	"His  (AttarSingh's)  relation came to me and told me that I should	 getthe money from the High Court".	 When further cross-examinedwith reference to his previous statements he said that	whenhe used the-phrase "with his permission" in his affidavit hemeant to indicate the, agent or pairokar of Attar Singh	 andwhen further pressed as to who that relation was and whetherhe knows his name be was unable107822to give any satisfactory answers.  His evidence on this partof  the	 case  is  highly  unsatisfactory  and	can  not  beaccepted.    We	 have.	no  hesitation	in  coming  to	 theconclusion  that  he  has  not	proved	the  specific	oralauthority,  which he has pleaded, for the withdrawal of	 thebalance amount.What is next relied upon in support of the authority is	 theVakalatnama  executed  by Attar Singh in  his  favour.	 Thevakalatnama  is in form No. 3 of the Fifth Schedule  of	 theSupreme	 Court Rules, 1950, before their amendment in  1954.What  is relied upon is that this form authorises the  Agentnot  only to deposit moneys but also to draw moneys.  It  isalso  urged  that an Agent has the power by  virtue  of	 thespecific  wording  of  the vakalatnama	"to  do	 all  thingsincidental to his acting" for his 'client in connection withthe  appeal.   It  is urged that  the  deposit	of  printingcharger	 and  the withdrawal of the unspent balance  of	 theprinting  charges  are all acts incidental to acting  for  aclient in connection with his appeal.  On the other side  itis  pointed  out that the form itself,	indicates  that	 theacting	is to be in connection with the work in the  SupremeCourt since it is headed "in the Supreme Court of India" andthat  the  authority arising under this	 vakalatnama  cannotextend	to acts to be done in the Punjab High Court.  We  donot'  consider it necessary to decide about the exact  scopeof   the  power	 exercisable  under  the  vakalatnama	withreference to the form that has been employed.  There is	 theoutstanding  fact in this case that the amount has  been  infact paid by Shri 'M' direct into the Punjab High Court on aletter	issued by the High Court to him.  There is also	 thefact that the receipt for the said amount has been issued bythe High Court to him and in his name.	There is the furtherfact  that  the unspent balance has been paid  by  the	HighCourt directly to him without requiring any further  writtenpower or authority, apparently because he was the  depositorand  was  therefore  presumably	 entitled  to  withdraw	 theunspent	 balance.   In view of these facts it  would  appearthat the High Court itself was under the impression that thewithdrawal was within the823scope  of Shri 'M's authority as an Agent for the appeal  inthe Supreme Court.  This impression, if wrong, was one	thatmay well have been shared by Shri 'M' equally with the	HighCourt.	 In  these circumstances, while we  definitely	holdthat the specific oral authority set up has not been proved,it  appears to us that 'no serious notice need be  taken  ofthis charge.What remains is charge No. 3 which is as follows:"That  you after receiving the sum of Rs. 242-1-9  in  March1952, retained the said sum, without any intimation to	yourclient	Attar Singh and without claiming any amount  as	 duefrom  him by way of fees to you and without lodging  a	billfor taxation against him for a period of over three years".The questions which require consideration under this  chargeare  (1)  whether Shri 'M' intimated Attar Singh  about	 thewithdrawal  of the unspent balance of printing charges,	 (2)whether Shri 'M' intimated Attar Singh that any fee remaineddue and made any demand in that behalf, and (3) whether Shri'M' was justified in retaining the amount towards fees with-out lodging a bill for taxation against his client.It  is	now  necessary	to recall  the	relevant  facts	 andenumerate  some	 further facts.	 Criminal Appeal No.  12  of1950  was  filed  into this Court on May 11,  1950,  by	 theAgent,	Shri  'M', on the basis of a vakalatnama  signed  byAttar Singh without date and accepted by Shri 'M' on May 11,1950.  Attar Singh says that when he signed the	 vakalatnamathere  were blanks therein and that after signing,  he	gavethe vakalatnama with the blanks to Sardar Raghbir Singh.  Itis his evidence that having fixed the engagement with SardarRaghbir	 Singh	and paid the money into his bands,  he	wentaway  leaving  the actual filing of the appeal, on  a  laterdate,  to Sardar Raghbir Singh.	 Shri 'M' who  accepted	 thevakalatnama on May 11, 1950, and who filed the appeal  memo-randum	into  Court  on the same date  with  the  signaturesthereon, also of Sardar Raghbir Singh and Shri Madan, admitsthat the blanks in the vakalatnama were filled in by him  inhis own handwriting.  But he says that Attar Singh was	alsopresent at the time of824his  acceptance of vakalatnama and the filing of the  appealand  that Attar Singh then paid him a sum of Rs. 50  withoutany  settlement	 of  fees.  He says  further  that  when  heaccepted the engagement he was given to understand by SardarRaghbir	 Singh that he would be paid reasonable	 fee.	Thiswas  at	 the  time when the appeal was filed  in  Court	 andpresumably in the presence of Attar Singh according to	him.Attar  Singh  denies that he was present or paid Rs.  50  toShri  'M'  at the time of filing the appeal or that  he	 metShri 'M' at all at the time.  On his evidence, if  accepted,Shri 'M' could have no expectation of any further payment offees.  About an year later there was the payment of Rs. 750,towards the printing charges: It is admitted that the amountwas  supplied  by means of a draft in favour of	 the  DeputyRegistrar  of the High Court given to Sardar Raghbir  Singh,by the brother-in-law of Attar Singh.  This was passed on toShri 'M' who sent it on to the High Court.  A receipt  datedJuly 19, 1951, was issued therefor by the High Court in Shri'M's  name., It is in evidence that the printed	 record	 wasreceived in the Supreme Court in December, 1951.  Intimationof the same was presumably given to the Agents concerned  indue course.  Shri 'M' applied to the High Court-in  January,1952,  for  refund of the unspent balance  of  the  printingcharges	 and  received an amount of Rs.	 242-1-9  in  March,1952.  The appeal was set down for hearing in May, 1952.  Itis the evidence of Attar Singh that on receiving  intimationthat  the appeal was coming up for hearing he came  down  toDelhi  from Bombay, where he was employed at the  time,	 andfound  that Sardar Raghbir Singh had left for China and	 wasnot available for arguing the appeal.  His evidence is	thathe enquired from the wife of Sardar Raghbir Singh who  told,him  to meet Shri 'M' which he did.  He says that they	cameto  the	 conclusion that Shri Umrigar, an Advocate  of	thisCourt,	was  to be engaged to argue the	 appeal.   ThereuponShri  Umrigar  was fixed up.  The appeal  was  not  actuallytaken up in May, 1952, as expected.  The engagements of bothSardar Raghbir Singh and Shri Madan were termi-825nated	sometime  in  August,  1952,  by  Shri	 'M'   underinstructions  of  Attar	 Singh.	  The  appeal  came  up	 forhearing,  later on, in November, 1952.	It was Shri  Umrigarwho argued the appeal.	Admittedly Shri 'M' was also presentat the hearing and instructed Shri Umrigar.  The judgment inthe appeal was delivered on the 5th December, 1952, allowingthe  appeal  and  remanding it for further  hearing  by	 theSessions  Court, as an appellate court, on the	evidence  onrecord.	 It would appear that nearly two years later,  i.e.,on November 24, 1954, Attar Singh applied to the Punjab HighCourt  stating	that he had paid Rs. 750  for  the  printingcharges	 of the. record in his appeal and that some  balancewas  lying  to	his  credit  out  of  the  said	 amount	 andrequesting  that  the  same  may be  remitted  to  him.	  Hereceived  a reply thereto from the Deputy Registrar  of	 thePunjab	High Court dated October 17, 1955,  intimating	thatthe  unspent  balance  of Rs. 242-1-9 was  refunded  to	 hiscounsel, Shri 'M' of the Supreme Court, and advising him  tocontact	 him  in  this	behalf.	  It  is  in  view  of	thisinformation that Attar Singh ultimately filed on December 5,1955,  a  complaint on which the  present  proceedings	wereinitiated.The  evidence  of Attar Singh on this part of  the  case  isquite  simple.	He says that some time after the appeal	 wasfiled i.e., in or about January 1951, he went away to Bombayin connection with private employment which he had  obtainedthere and that he came to Delhi again only in May, 1952,  onreceiving  intimation  that his appeal was  expected  to  betaken  up.  He says further that since the  appeal  was	 nottaken  up  in May and went beyond the long vacation  he	 gothimself	 transferred to, and remained in, Delhi since  aboutMay,  1952.  He says that he came into direct  contact	withShri  'M' only from May, 1952, and that he had not  met	 himtill  then.  It is also his evidence that he was never	toldby Shri 'M' about the unspent balance being available or  ofhis  having withdrawn the same.	 He was also not  told	thatany  fees had yet to be paid.  He was under  the  impressionthat no further fee was due to Shri 'M' and that his826fees must have been paid up at the outset by Sardar paid  upat the outset by Raghbir Singh.	 There was no demand by Shri'M'  from him at any time for balance of fees, not  even  atthe time when his appeal was heard by this Court for two  orthree days.  Towards the end of 1954, he was greatly in needof money on account of the further proceedings in his appealconsequent  on	the  remand.  He then  felt  that  he  mightenquire	 from the High Court about the availability  of	 anyunspent	 balance out of the printing charges  deposited	 andget back the same and meet his needs.  He accordingly  wrotea  letter  to the High Court in November, 1954.	 He  bad  tosend  a	 number of reminders.  He  ultimately  received	 thereply dated October 17, 1955, from the High Court nearly  anyear  after  his first enquiry.	 According to  Attar  Singh,before	he  wrote  to the High	Court  enquiring  about	 theunspent	 balance, he approached Shri 'M' and  enquired	fromhim.  It was on his advice that he wrote to the High  Court.His  evidence further is that when he actually received	 theletter	from  the Deputy Registrar of the High	Court  datedOctober	 17, 1955, be again met Shri 'M' about	the  unspentbalance	 and  enquired of him whether he  had  received	 theamount, but that Shri 'M' denied having received any  money.He says that thereafter he confronted him with the reply  hehad received from the High Court and that on seeing it	Shri'M' was astonished and told him to come later on.  He statesthat  when he went to him again, Shri 'M' told him  that  hewill return the money after two days, but that ultimately heevaded	him.   It was after this that at the  suggestion  ofsome friends, he lodged the complaint with the Registrar  ofthis Court.As against this, Shri 'M's evidence is as follows.  When theprinted record wits received from the High Court, and he gotintimation of the same, he wrote a letter dated December 21,1951, to Attar Singh intimating that the printed record	 badbeen received in the Supreme Court, that further steps	haveto  be taken and that he is to supply him with funds  there-for.  He says that thereafter Attar Singh's relation came tohim in January, 1952, and told him to write827to the High Court to get a refund of the unspent balance  ofthe printing charges.  He admits that he received the refundin  March,,  1952, and says that he  appropriated  the	sametowards his fee.  He also says that when in May, 1952, AttarSingh  came in connection with the expected hearing  of	 theappeal,	 he told him about the unspent balance	having	beenreceived by him and that later on, i.e., after the  hearing,of  the appeal was over, he told him that the bill  for	 thework,  done  by him in connection with the appeal  would  beabout Rs. 500.	He denies the version of Attar Singh that hewas  not aware of the unspent balance having been drawn	 andthat  for the first time he contacted Shri 'M' in  1954	 forthe  unspent  balance  and wrote to the High  Court  on	 hisadvice	for  refund  of	 the balance,  if  any.	  He  deniesspecifically  that Attar Singh met him in this connection  anumber of times and wrote reminders to the High Court at hisinstance.    He	 also  denies  categorically  that  he	 wasconfronted  by Attar Singh with the letter received  by	 himfrom  the High Court and that he then told him all that	 hadhappened.'The  question before us is which of these versions is to  beaccepted.   Was	 there any intimation by Shri 'M'  to  AttarSingh that be withdrew the unspent balance and did he demandfrom him the alleged balance of fees?  Admittedly, there wasno  written intimation and no specific written demand.	 Theonly writing from himself to his client that Shri 'M' relieson,  is	 a letter dated December 21, 1951.  He	produces  analleged copy thereof which is as follows:"S. Attar SinghC/o Gurdwara Sisganj,Delhi.Dear Sir,Your appeal pending in the Supreme Court No. 1.2 of 1950  isripe  for further steps as the record has been	printed	 anddispatched by the High Court, Simla.Now  you have to supply me with funds for drafting  petitionof  appeal,  statement	of case, affidavits  of	 service  ofnotices and typing charges.828Since  the  record  has reached the Supreme  Court  on	12thDecember  1951, you are to file petition within 30  days  ofreceipt of this date. Please	 treat	this as very urgent,  otherwise	 the  appealshall be dismissed for non-prosecution".It  may be noticed that the wording of this letter does	 notin terms state that what is being demanded is his own  fees.Paragraph  2 of the letter may well be understood by a	lay-man,  as  asking  for  nothing	more  than  expenses  to  beincurred.   Attar Singh deposes that he never  received	 theletter.	 It is clear from the evidence that Attar Singh	 wasnot  in Delhi at the time and it is curious that the  letteris addressed to him at Sisganj Gurdwara Delhi.	Shri 'M' hasbeen  cross-examined on this and in our opinion, he has	 notbeen  able  to give any satisfactory explanation.   He	saysthat the address was furnished by Sardar Raghbir Singh.	 ButSardar	Raghbir Singh was not asked about it.  Assuming	 theletter to be true, it is obvious that it would not have beenreceived  by  Attar  Singh.   Clearly  no  money  has	beenremitted,   nor	 any  written  communication  received,	  inresponse, to this letter.  If the letter is true, one  wouldhave  expected some further letter to have been	 written  tohim with, the correct' address on proper enquiry.  It is  toget over this difficulty that the story has been put forwardby  Shri 'M' of a relation of Attar Singh  having  contactedhim  in January, 1952, and instructing him to  withdraw	 theunspent balance, if any, of the printing charges.  There  isnothing to show that these alleged instructions were by	 wayof  response  to  the  above letter.  It  is  not  a  littlesurprising  that the said relation does not appear  to	havecared  to ascertain whether any money was in fact  availableor  was received.  But it is unnecessary to dwell  on  'thisany  further  because  we have already	noticed	 the  entireevidence  relating  to	these alleged  instructions  of	 therelation and seen how unsatisfactory it is.  We are  clearlyof  the opinion that the story of instructions by the  rela-tion is wholly unreliable.  In that view, assuming,  withoutdeciding that the letter of December 21, 1951 , is true,  itis all the more significant that there, are no829further	 reminders  to Attar Singh to  his  correct  addressright up to May, 1952, i.e, when the appeal became ready forhearing,  though  in  the interval Attar Singh	was  not  inDelhi.	 It is also surprising that even after the  disposalof the appeal and up to the stage of the complaint, Shri 'M'did  not  make any written demand or send any bill  for	 thefees to Attar Singh. It is only in the reply dated  December16, 1955 to the complaint, filed before our learned brother,Bhagwati, J., by Attar Singh that a reference is made to hisbill of about Rs. 550 against Attar Singh for the work	doneby  him on his behalf.	The bill was in fact produced  at  alater date on March 5, 1956, along with his affidavit  filedbefore Bhagwati, J. In paragraph 9 of that affidavit he says"I, as agent, had lien over the sum of Rs. 242-1-9 which wasappropriated  towards  my bill for  Rs.	 542-15-9  (herewithattached).   Rs. 250 is still 'due to me from Attar  Singh".That  bill has also been marked before us as an	 exhibit  onbehalf	of  Shri 'M'.  It is the evidence of  Shri  'M',  asalready stated, that when he accepted the engagement he	 wasgiven  to understand that he would be paid a reasonable	 feebut  that  there was no settlement at the time.	 He  is	 notvery clear in his evidence what was the aggregate reasonablefee which he was entitled to.  But from the statement in hisevidence  that he informed his client after the	 appeal	 wasfinished, that his bill would be Rs. 500 it may be  presumedthat  his case is that he was entitled to the amount of	 hisbill  as  exhibited.   If  so, there  should  have  been  nodifficulty in his applying to the Court for taxation againsthis  client.   We have been informed that such a  course  ispermissible  under orders of the Court, even in	 a  criminalmatter.	  But Shri 'M' admits that be took no such  step  inspite  of  the	fact that a large  and	substantial  balanceshould	have  been due to him according to his	case.	Whenasked  to  explain why he did not do so, his  answer  is  asfollows:"Because  the  appeal  was  remanded and  it  is  a  generalpractice here that when the case is finished the clients  dopay the balance.  So we do not insist108830further.  Generally when the appeal or a matter is  finishedI  do not make complaints or file suits or do  anything	 forthe  balance  of fees because mostly  these  matters  createfuss.  I did not, in this matter, press for the balance".It  may be noticed  that in the bill the total of the  itemsof out-of-pocket expenses is Rs. 22-15-6, leaving a  balanceof Rs. 27-0-6 out of the amount of Rs. 50, which on his	 ownshowing,  he had received from his client.  All the rest  ofthe  bill submitted by him is a claim for fees	for  variousitems of work said to have been done.  If it be true, as  hesays,  that  he sent in December, 1951, a  letter  to  AttarSingh demanding fees, it is all the more surprising that  henever  made  any further written demand	 either	 during	 thependency  of  the appeal or at least sent a bill  after	 thedisposal  thereof, for the balance of the fees,	 whether  ornot  he	 would have felt it advisable later on to  take	 thematter	to  court  'for taxation.   This  admitted  inactionrenders	 it probable that, having obtained the refund  of  asubstantial  amount  of over Rs. 200 after  December,  1951,without	 the specific oral instructions or the knowledge  ofhis client or his agent as we have already found-he has keptdiscreetly silent, without intimating to the client the factof  his	 having received the balance and  without  making  ademand	against	 him for the fees.  It is only now  that  heclaims	a lien on the said amount for a bill which  he	putsforward,  and  pleads justification for	 the  retention	 andappropriation  of  the	amount on the basis  of	 that  bill,Learned	 counsel for Shri 'M' very strongly urges  that	 theevidence of Attar Singh that he was not informed by Shri 'M'about having obtained refund of the unspent balance and thatat  no	time was any demand made to his	 knowledge  for	 thebalance	 of  fees  should  be  rejected	 as  being   utterlyimprobable.  He urges that the evidence of Shri 'M' that  heorally intimated to him the fact of his having obtained	 re-fund of the unspent balance, and of his making constant oraldemands	 for  the balance of fees should  be  accepted.	  Hesuggests  that	it  is Attar  Singh  who  discreetly  evadedraising the question about the balance831of  fees  due,	with full knowledge  that  some	 amount	 hadalready	 been  received by Shri 'M' and that a	much  largeramount would be found due on a regular bill.  He urges	thatif there is no reasonable proof of the arrangement that Shri'M'  was to receive only Rs. 100 and of the fact of  paymentthereof,  it is very unlikely that a professional  gentlemanlike  Shri  'M' would go on working in	the  appeal  withoutmaking even an oral demand for fees unless he was  permittedby  the client to withdraw and appropriate the	amount.	  Hestrongly  urges that the conduct of Attar Singh	 himself  onthis part of the case gives room for considerable suspicion.It is pointed out that though the appeal was disposed of  inDecember, 1952, he makes no enquiry for the unspent  balanceuntil  after nearly two years.	It is urged that he  has  nosatisfactory account how he then came to know that there wasa balance at all, the payment of which he might obtain	fromthe High Court.	 It is submitted that his story that it	 wasat  the	 instance of Shri 'M' himself that he wrote  to	 thePunjab	High  Court making enquiries about  the	 balance  isutterly improbable, We are not, however, impressed with	 thesoundness  of  these  comments.	 We  see  no  difficulty  inaccepting  the	explanation of Attar Singh that he  came  tothink  of the possibility of obtaining the unspent  balance,if  any,  which may be available to him, only  when  he	 washard-pressed  for  money  for the  further  conduct  of	 hiscriminal  appeal as a result of the remand.  It may  or	 maynot  be that the letters of Attar Singh to the	Punjab	HighCourt  enquiring about the unspent balance were	 written  onthe  advice  of Shri 'M', but the fact remains that  for  anadequate  reason as given by him he did start  enquiries  inthis  behalf so late as two years after the disposal of	 theappeal.	 On this part of the case what is really significantis  that at the earliest opportunity which Shri 'M' had,  hedid not put forward his present specific case, of intimationof  the	 refund and of demand of the fees.  Para  5  of	 thecomplaint  of Attar Singh dated December 5, 1955, states  asfollows:"I had throughout been making enquiries from832Shri 'M' and he has consistently denied having received	 anymoney from the High Court".In his reply dated December 16, 1955, Shri 'M' has contentedhimself with a bare denial as follows:"Para  5 of the application is emphatically denied  and	 notadmitted".Even  in  his later statement, in the form of  an  affidavitdated  March 5, 1956, filed before Bhagwati, J. all that  hesays is that "on December 21, 1951, he requested Attar Singhto remit funds for prosecuting the appeal and that with	 hispermission wrote to the High Court on January 17, 1952,	 forthe refund of the balance.  He has attempted to explain thatby  "his permission" he meant "his  pairokar's	permission".We  have found that, on the evidence and probabilities,	 thestory  of  pairokar's  permission  cannot  be  accepted	  asreliable.   The story of his having directly informed  AttarSingh about his having got the balance occurs for the  firsttime  in the cross-examination before Bhagwati, J.,  whereinhe says that he told him about it at the time of the hearingof  the appeal.	 But even there he says that he did  not  atthat time ask for anything further.  There he admits that itis only when Attar Singh asked him to refund the money	thathe told him that he should pay him the balance due.  Now, itis  in	this Court in the cross-examination of	Attar  Singhthat  the story of his having informed Attar Sing about	 hisobtaining from the High Court refund of the unspent  balanceand  of his having demanded the fees due to him, all at	 thetime  of hearing of the appeal,-has been put forward in	 thefollowing questions and answers."Q. In fact, at the time when your appeal was heard Mr.	 'M'had told you that Rs. 242, had been recovered from the	HighCourt?A.   It is far from true.Q.   He also told you that his fees has got to bepaid?A. No.Q.   You  said nothing about it because you knew  that	morefees than Rs. 242 would be due to Mr. 'M'?A. The question does not arise".833The further cross-examination of Attar Singh is as follows."Q.  I am putting it to you that your talk that	 you  showedthe  letter of the 17th October, 1955 to Mr. 'M' is  a	purefabrication?A.   No, it is correct.Q.   I	will tell you what had happened. You had asked	'M','M' had told you (this is my case) that he had recovered Rs.242 and when you said 'what about Rs. 242 he said 'you	havegot  to	 pay my fees', which would come to  much  more,	 andtherefore  thereafter there was no further talk between	 youboth?A.   Nothing  was talked by Mr. 'M' to me then, nor up	tillnow".This belated case about intimation of withdrawal of  unspentbalance	 and about demand for fees having been made  at	 thetime  of  the bearing of the appeal, cannot be	accepted  astrue.	His admission before Bhagwati, J. that even  at	 thetime of the hearing of the appeal (which admittedly took twoor  three days) he did not ask for anything further must  beaccepted as correct.  If so that would make it very probablethat the first information to Attar Singh about the fact  ofShri  'M' having obtained refund of the unspent	 balance  ofthe printing charges was only when the High Court  intimatedthe same to him.  It follows that the first oral demand	 forthe  fees by Shri 'M' to Attar Singh, may have been when  hewas  confronted with the letter of the High Court.  This  iswhat he admitted in the enquiry before Bhagwati, J.It  may	 further  be noticed that Shri	'M'  states  in	 hisevidence as follows:"After	 I   received  this  money   (unspent	balance)   Iappropriated it towards my fee.	 There was no settlement  offees between me and my client.	Raghbir Singh never told  methat I should get only Rs. 50 or Rs. 100".He was cross-examined whether the appropriation was with theconsent of the client, as appears from the following."Q.  Coming to May, 1952, when you said you told the  clientthat you had received money did you834tell him that you appropriated the moneyA. Yes.Q. No question therefore remained of any lien. The money wasappropriated towards fees.A.   This   is	 all  opinion  whether	it   was   lien	  orappropriation.	It was lien.  So I appropriated it.Q.   You had lien.A. Yes.Q.   You appropriated with the client's consent.A.   The consent was there".How  unsatisfactory  his  answers are  as  to  the  client'sconsent	 for  appropriation even on his own  case  that	 theamount was appropriated is noticeable.We  are, therefore, of the opinion that the following  factshave been proved.  Without the knowledge of or intimation toAttar Singh, Shri 'M' obtained in March, 1952, from the HighCourt  the unspent balance of printing charges deposited  byhim on behalf of his client Attar Singh amounting to the sumof Rs. 242-1-9.	 He retained the same without any intimationto his client and without making a demand or lodging a	billfor any amount as due from-him by way of fees.	The fact  ofhis  having obtained the refund became known to Attar  Singhfor  the  first time only by the letter of the	Punjab	HighCourt  to him and it was only when Shri 'M'  was  confrontedwith the same that he raised the question of payment of feeswith  Attar Singh.  Prior thereto he denied receipt  of	 anysuch  moneys when asked by his client about it and  did	 notmake  any  demand  for fees.  In fact  he  appropriated	 theamount,	 on  receiving it, without any demand  for  fees  orlodging	 a bill for taxation and without the  knowledge	 andconsent of the client.The  question that next arises for consideration is  whetheron   these  facts  Shri	 'M'  is  guilty   of	professionalmisconduct.  It is urged before us that any Agent has a lienon  the moneys of his client coming into his hands  for	 thereasonable  fee that may be due to him if as may be  assumedfor  the  purposes  of this case the  fee  was	not  settledoriginally.  It is urged that in this case Shri 'M' has donenothing more than exercising that lien and appropriating the835amount	which legitimately came into his hands towards	whathe  considered as reasonable fee due to himself leaving	 thesettlement of any further fee that may be due to him to	 thegood  sense  and  the  good  will  of  the  client  on	 thetermination of the case.  It is urged that on this view	 hisaction	is bona fide.  It is pointed out that while, it	 maybe,  that  such conduct is not consistent with	the  highestprofessional standards, it cannot be treated as amounting toprofessional  misconduct.  It is urged that it is not  everyconduct	 which may be considered unjustifiable	or  improperthat amounts to professional misconduct if in fact the agentor  advocate  honestly	believed that he  was  justified  inadopting  the  course he did, so long as 'such a  course  isnot,  in terms, prohibited by any positive rules  framed  bycompetent  authority to regulate the conduct of	 agents	 andadvocates  in  such matters.  We are unable to	accept	thiscontention.   As  has been laid down by this  Court  In	 thematter	of Mr. "G", a Senior Advocate of the  Supreme  Court(supra)	 "the Court, in dealing with cases  of	professionalmisconduct is not concerned with ordinary legal rights,	 butwith  the  special and rigid rules of  professional  conductexpected  of and applied to a specially privileged class  ofpersons who, because of their privileged status, are subjectto certain disabilities which do not attach to other men andwhich  do  not	attach even to them  in	 a  non-professionalcharacter.................... "He (a legal practitioner)  isbound to conduct himself in a manner befitting the high	 andhonourable  profession	to whose privileges he has  so	longbeen  admitted;	 and if he departs from the  high  standardswhich that profession has set for itself and demands of	 himin  professional  matters,  he	is  liable  to	disciplinaryaction".   It appears to us that the fact of there being  nospecific rules governing the particular situation, which  weare  dealing  with,  on the facts found by us,	is  not	 anyreason	for  accepting a less rigid standard.  If  any,	 theabsence of rules increases the responsibility of the membersof  the	 profession attached to this Court as  to  how	theyshould conduct themselves in such situations, having  regardto the very high privilege that836an Advocate of this Court now enjoys as one entitled,  underthe  law,  to practice in all the courts in India.   We	 areconscious that at the time when the relevant facts  happenedin  this case Shri 'M' was only an Agent.  But at  the	timewhen  he was confronted with the letter of the	Punjab	HighCourt  intimating  receipt of the unspent  balance,  he	 hadalready	 become	 an Advocate on record and we have  to	dealwith this case with reference to rule 30 of Order IV of	 theamended Supreme Court Rules.  That rule says "Where....	 theCourt  is  of opinion that an Advocate has  been  guilty  ofmisconduct  or	of conduct unbecoming of  an  Advocate,	 theCourt  may  take disciplinary action as	 provided  therein".Even under rules 31 and 32 of Order IV of the Supreme  CourtRules prior to the amendment, the position would be the samein so far as a matter of the kind with which we are  dealingis  concerned.	 It is true that under rule 32	of  the	 oldrules  which refers to disciplinary action  against  agents,the phrase "conduct unbecoming of an Advocate" is not to  befound.	But that is probably only because in certain mattersthe  Agent's position in relation to his client	 may  differfrom  that of an Advocate.  But we have no reason  to  thinkthat in respect of a matter such as the one we are concernedwith,  the standard applicable to an Agent or to  a  present"Advocate  on  record" is anything different.	We  have  nodoubt in our mind that the high standards of the  professiondemand	that  when the moneys of the client  come  into	 thepossession  of	an Agent or an Advocate, otherwise  than  asearmarked  fees, he has to treat himself as in the  positionof  a trustee for the client in respect of the said  moneys.Even  if he has a lien on such moneys, it would be  improperfor him to retain, i.e., to appropriate the same towards hisfees without the consent, express or implied, of his  clientor without an order of the Court.  It may be that in certaincircumstances he is entitled to exercise a lien, but he	 hasto  give  reasonable intimation both of the fact  of  moneyshaving	come into his hands and of the exercise of his	lienover  them until his account is settled.  If there has	beenno prior settlement of fees he. cannot constitute837himself	 a  judge in his own cause as to what would  be	 thereasonable fee payable to him.	This position of trusteeshipin  respect of moneys of the client in his hands is all	 thegreater	 where the moneys represent the unspent	 balance  ofwhat  was given for a specific purpose, such as for  paymentof  printing charges, as in this case.	On any such  unspentbalance,  it  is well settled, that he has  no	lien  eitherunder  the common law or by the statute. (See Cordery's	 Lawrelating to Solicitors, 4th Edition, page 456 and Halsbury'sLaws of England, 2nd Edition, Vol. 31, page 239, para  265).In  this  case	it  appears to us  that	 the  retention	 andappropriation of the money by Shri 'M' without intimation tothe client and without sending a bill to him for his fees orapplying  for  taxation even after disposal  of	 the  appealconstitutes professional misconduct.  This is aggravated  bythe  facts  emerging from the evidence of Attar	 Singh	who,Shri  'M' admits, has no animus against him, and whose	evi-dence  on  this part. of the case we see no  reason  not  toaccept.	  That evidence shows that when in 1954 Attar  Singhenquired  of  Shri 'M' he denied knowledge  of	the  unspentbalance	 and that when confronted with the  letter  receivedfrom the Punjab High Court he admitted receipt and  demandedfees  but  evaded the situation without fairly	and  franklyfacing it.Shri  'M' appears to have been enrolled as an Agent in	1949and  he	 says that when, at the instance of Shri  Madan	 andSardar	Raghbir	 Singh he accepted the	engagement  in	May,1950, it was his third or fourth engagement as Agent.  Theremay,  no  doubt, be cases where an unscrupulous	 client	 maytake  advantage	 of  and exploit a  beginner  in  the  legalprofession.   But we are satisfied that this is not  such  acase.We  are	 clearly of the opinion that Shri 'M' is  guilty  ofprofessional  misconduct.   We	direct	that  he  should  besuspended from practice for a period of two years.Order accordingly.109838