PETITIONER:STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH	Vs.RESPONDENT:REVASHANKARDATE OF JUDGMENT:24/09/1958BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.IMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1959 AIR  102		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1)1367 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1971 SC 221	 (16) R	    1972 SC 905	 (8) R	    1972 SC 989	 (9,10) R	    1974 SC 710	 (85)ACT:Contempt  of Court-Ouster of High Court's  jurisdiction-Test-Contempt  of  Courts Act, 1952 (XXXII Of  1952),  s.  3(2)-Indian Penal Code, 1860 (XLV of 1860), S. 228.HEADNOTE:The  respondent, who had filed a complaint in respect of  analleged offence under s. 500 of the Indian Penal Code in theCourt of the Additional District Magistrate of Indore,	madea  number  of  aspersions  against  the	 Magistrate  in	  anapplicationI741368made to him under s. 528 of the Code of Criminal  Procedure,two  of which were of a serious character.  It	was  allegedthat the Magistrate was a party to a conspiracy with certainothers the object of which was two implicate the complainantin a false case of theft and that a lawyer appearing for theaccused	 persons,  to  whom the	 Magistrate  was  favourablyinclined, had declared that he had paid a sum of Rs. 500  tothe Magistrate.	 Those allegations were later on repeated inan  affidavit.	 The Magistrate reported the matter  to	 theRegistrar of the High Court for necessary action.  The	HighCourt called upon the respondent to show cause why he shouldnot  be proceeded against in contempt under the Contempt  ofCourts	Act,  1952.  The judges of the	Division  Bench	 whoheard the matter, without going into the merits of the case,held  that, Prima facie, the offence was one of	 intentionalinsult	 under	s.  228	 of  the  lndian  Penal	 Code	and,consequently, the jurisdiction of the High Court was  oustedunder s. 3(2) Of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1952.Held, that the High Court had taken an erroneous view of thematter and its order must be set aside.The  mere existence of an element of insult in	the  allegedact  of contempt was not conclusive as to the  applicabilityofS.  228	 Of  the  Indian  Penal	 Code  so  as  to  oust	 thejurisdiction of the High Court under s. 3(2) of the Contemptof Courts Act.While Judges and Courts are not beyond criticism, and  thereare  well-recognised limits to such criticism, and  contemptproceedings  are  not meant to shield judges  from  personalinsults,  there	 can be no question  that  where  defamatoryaspersions  are	 cast  upon the	 character  and	 ability  ofindividual  judges  or	of  Courts  in	general,  which	  insubstance scandalise the Court itself and have the effect ofundermining  the  confidence of the public in  it  and	thushinder	due administration of justice, the contempt is of  akind which exceeds the limits of s. 228 of the Indian  PenalCode.The  true test, therefore, is: is the act complained  of  anoffence under s. 228 of the Indian Penal Code, or  somethingmore  than that ? If it is something more, the	jurisdictionof  the High Court is not ousted by S. 3(2) Of the  Contemptof Courts Act.So judged, there could be no doubt that the aspersions	castin  the	 present  case amounted to  scandalising  the  courtitself,	 and  were no mere personal insults,  and  the	HighCourt had jurisdiction to take cognizance of the same.Bathina	 Ramkrishna Reddy v. The State of Madras, [1952]  S.C.  R. 425 and Brahma Prakash Shayma v. The State  of  UttarPradesh, [1953] S.C.R. 1169, relied on.Ambard	v. Attorney-Geneyal for Trinidad and Tobago,  [1936]A.C. 322, referred to.1369The  question whether an insult offered to a public  servantis  intentional so as to attract S. 228 of the Indian  PenalCode has to be decided on the facts of each particular	caseand  it is neither necessary nor advisable to Jay  down	 anyhard and fast  rule.Narotam	 Das v. Emperor, A.I.R. 1943 All. 97, Queen  Empressv.  Abdullah  Khan, (1898) A.W.N. I45 and Emperor  v.  MurliDhar, (1916) I.L.R. 38 All. 284, considered.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE  JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 103 of1956.H.   J.	 Umrigar and R. H. Dhebar, for the  appellant.	 Thesole  question arising for determination is whether  on	 thefacts  and  circumstances  of the case the  High  Court	 wascorrect in holding that the act of the respondent complainedof  constituted an offence under s. 228 of the Indian  PenalCode, and the jurisdiction of the High Court was, therefore,ousted by reason of the provision of s. 3(2) of the Contemptof  Courts  Act,  1952.	 The High Court in  coming  to	thisconclusion  appears to have relied on two decisions  of	 theSupreme	 Court--[1952]	S.C.R. 425 and [1953]  S.C.R.  1169.The  facts  in	the  two  Supreme  Court  cases	 were  quitedifferent and they do not, in any way justify the view takenby  the	 High  Court.  It will be  my  submission  that	 theallegations  made in the so-called transfer  application  asalso  the affidavit are of such a serious nature  that	theyare not a mere personal insult to the Magistrate, but go farbeyond;	 they  scandalise the Court in such a manner  as  tocreate distrust in the minds of the public, and pollute	 thestream of justice, and in such cases the jurisdiction of theHigh Court is not ousted (Reads out portions of the transferapplication  and the affidavit in support).  From a  perusalof  the extracts which have been read, it will be seen	thatthe  aspersions	 made against the Magistrate are of  a	veryserious	 nature alleging criminal conspiracy, and also	thathe had taken a bribe of Rs. 500 from the opposite side.So far as the offence under s. 228 of the Indian Penal	Codeis  concerned, the first essential ingredient is that  theremust be an " intention " to insult.  In the affidavit  filedin the High Court in reply to the1370show  cause notice the respondent had stated that there	 wasno intention to insult or show disrespect to the Magistrate.[Imam J.-I cannot agree with that, the language used in	 theapplication  and affidavit is such that intention to  insultwas clearly there.]That may be true, but there are several earlier decisions ofthe Allahabad High Court which have been referred to in	 thecase  relied  upon  by the High	 Court-Narotam	Das  v.	 TheEmperor, A.I.R 1943 All. 97, wherein it was held that  wherescandalous  allegations	 were  incorporated  in	 a  transferapplication,  there  was  not necessarily  an  intention  toinsult, as the primary object was to seek a transfer and notto insult the Court.So  far	 as  the decisions are concerned,  they	 support  mycontention that when scandalous allegations are made againsta  Magistrate  in  a transfer  application  they  would	 notnecessarily constitute an offence under s. 228 of the IndianPenal  Code  and could be punished by the  High	 Court.	  InI.L.R.	1941  Nagpur 304, the Judge, who was seized  of	 thecase, made a complaint to the High Court about a letter sentto him by one of the parties, and it was there held that thesender of the letter could be punished for Contempt of Courtby  the High Court.  It is true that there is no  discussionabout. 228 of the Indian Penal Code but in the course of thejudgment  the  case of Emperor v. Jagnath  Prasad  Swadhiry,I.L.R. 1938 All. 548, was mentioned.  In the Allahabad	casea  person during the pendency of a suit sent  communicationsby post to the Judge containing scandalous allegations.	  Itappears	 that it was urged that s. 228 of the  Indian  PenalCode  would bar the jurisdiction of the High Court under  s.3(2)  of  the  Contempt	 of  Courts  Act,  1926,  but	thiscontention  was repelled and the High Court stated that	 itsjurisdiction to punish for contempt was not ousted.[Reference was also made to I.L.R. 12 Patna I and I.L.R.  12Patna 172].I submit that where the allegations made go beyond1371mere   personal	  insult  and  tend  to	 bring	 the   wholeadministration	of justice, into disrepute, then the  juris-diction of the High Court would not be ousted by s. 3(2)  ofthe  Act.   In a case where there is only an insult  to	 theJudge by using vulgar abuse such as " rogue or rascal "	 andthis abuse was made " ex facie curiae ", then it may be saidthat  the  jurisdiction of the High Court is ousted  as	 theoffence	 falls	within the purview of s. 228 of	 the  IndianPenal Code.[Das J.-Also if the abuse relates to the private life of theJudge,	such  as, calling him a drunkard  or  imputing	someimmorality to him, unconnected with his judicial duties.]I agree.  In the instant case the Magistrate must have	beenfully conscious of the powers possessed by him under s.	 228of the Indian Penal Code as also the relevant provisions  inthe  Criminal Procedure Code which permit him to punish	 forContempt of Court, yet he presumably must have felt that theaspersions  made  in the present case were so  grave  as  totranscend mere personal insult and as such it was a fit caseto  be	referred  to the High  Court  for  taking  necessaryaction.	 In conclusion, it is submitted that the view  takenby  the	 High  Court  is much  too  narrow.  and  cannot  besupported either in principle or by the, authorities cited.J.   B.	 Dadachanji  and S. N. Andley, for  the	 respondent.The  view  taken  by the High Court is	correct	 and  is  inaccordance  with the judgments of the Supreme Court  in	 thecases reported in [1952] S.C.R. and [1953] S.C.R. If the actcomplained of intentionally offers a personal insult to	 theMagistrate   concerned,	 it  may  tend	to   undermine	 theadministration of justice thereby, but it will	neverthelessamount	to an offence under s. 228 of the Indian Penal	Codeand  as	 such  the jurisdiction of the High  Court  will  beousted	by  s. 3(2) of the Act.	 It is unsound to  say	thatthere  are  two kinds of contempt, and the  lesser  kind  ofcontempt will come under s. 228 of the Indian Penal Code andthe  grosser kind will not come under s. 228 ; every  insultto a Court, whatever its nature, is contempt and  punishableunder s. 228 of the Indian Penal Code.1372[Kapur J.-Every insult to a Judge will not necessarily be  acontempt.   A libel attacking the integrity of a  Judge	 maynot, in the circumstances of a particular case, amount to  acontempt at all, although it may be the subject matter of  alibel proceeding.][Das  J.-It  appears that there is a further  difficulty  inyour way, that is, whether the Magistrate was sitting in anystage of a judicial proceeding when the application and	 theaffidavit  were	 filed;	 if  he was not,  then	one  of	 theessential ingredients of s. 228 of the Indian Penal Code wasnot satisfied.]The  High Court has assumed that the Magistrate was  sittingas  a Court at that time and this was also borne out by	 thefacts  stated  in the petition for special leave  to  appealfiled	by  the	 appellant  wherein  it	 is  stated  "	 theapplication having been presented during the sitting of	 theCourt  was  clearly calculated to lower the dignity  of	 theCourt in the public mind ".Section	 480 of the Code of Criminal Procedure	specificallymentions s. 228 of the Indian Penal Code and treats it as  aform  of  contempt,  therefore, it will	 be  an	 offence  ofcontempt punishable under the Indian Penal Code and as	suchthe jurisdiction of the High Court would be ousted under  s.3(2) of the Act.I  submit  that	 the view taken by the	High  Court  is	 thecorrect	 view and is supported by the two decisions  of	 theSupreme Court as also the judgment of the Bombay High  Courtin (1922) I.L.R. 46 Bom. 973.Umrigar	 in reply.  During the course of discussion,  doubtshave  arisen whether there was any intention to	 insult,  orwhether	 what was said was an insult, or whether the  insultwas  offered in any stage of a judicial proceeding.  If	 anyone  of these three essentials is lacking, then,  obviously,there  is no offence under s. 228 of the Indian Penal  Code.Where there is so much doubt as to whether an offence  unders.  228 of the Indian Penal Code has been committed or	not,and  there  is no doubt that " prima facie " a	Contempt  ofCourt  apart  from  the	 provisions  of	 s.  228  has	beencommitted,  it is wrong to say that the jurisdiction of	 theHigh Court is ousted.1373I  submit  that	 the case relied upon  by  the	High  Court,Narotam	 Das  v. Emperor, A. 1. R. 1943 All.  97,  correctlylays  down the law so far as the question of intention "  isconcerned.1958.	September  24.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byS.   K. DAS, J.-This is an appeal by special leave from	 thejudgment  and  order of the then Madhya Bharat	High  Court,dated	February   9,  1955,   in   Criminal   MiscellaneousApplication no. 2 of 1954.  Originally, the appeal was filedon behalf of the State of Madhya Bharat, now substituted  bythe State of Madhya Pradesh.  The appeal raises an importantquestion with regard to the interpretation of s. 3(2) of theContempt  of Courts Act, 1952 (XXXII of	 1952),	 hereinafterreferred to as the Act, which repealed the earlier  Contemptof  Courts  Act,  1926 (XII of 1926),  as  also	 the  IndoreContempt  of  Courts Act (V of 1930) which  was	 earlier  inforce in the State of Madhya Bharat.The  facts  so far as they are relevant to this	 appeal	 arethese.	 One  Ganga Ram, stated to be the  landlord  of	 therespondent   Revashankar,  instituted  a  suit,	 which	 wasnumbered as 1383 of 1952 in the court of the Additional CityCivil  Judge,  Indore,	for ejectment and  arrears  of	rentagainst Revashankar.  It was stated that the suit was  filedin the name of Ganga Ram and his wife Chandra Mukhi Bai.  Itwas  further alleged that one Mr. Uma Shankar Chaturvedi,  alawyer acting on behalf of Ganga Ram, advised the latter  tosign  the name of his wife Chandra Mukhi Bai though  ChandraMukhi	Bai  herself  did  not	sign  the  plaint   or	 thevakalatnama.   In  this	 suit Chandra  Mukhi  Bai  filed  anapplication  for  permission to prosecute  her	husband	 forforgery.   Another  application was filed by  certain  otherpersons said to be other tenants of Ganga Ram in which	someallegations  were  made against Revashankar.   On  June	 29,1953, Revashankar filed a complaint against five persons foran  alleged offence under s. 500, Indian Penal	Code.	Thiscomplaint was verified on July 13, 1953, and was  registeredas Criminal Case no. 637 of 1953 in the court of one1374Mr.  N. K. Acharya, Additional District Magistrate,  Indore.In  that  case one Mr. Kulkarni appeared on  behalf  of	 thecomplainant  Revashankar.  The accused persons	appeared  onAugust 8, 1953, through Messrs.	 Mohan Singh and Uma ShankarChaturvedi.   An  objection  was raised	 on  behalf  of	 theaccused	 persons  to the appearance of Mr. Kulkarni  as	 thelatter's  name appeared in the list of witnesses.  This	 wasfollowed by a spate of applications and counter applicationsand  on	 October 12, 1953, the learned	Additional  DistrictMagistrate passed an order to the effect that the copies  ofthe applications as well as of the affidavits filed by	bothparties	 should be sent to the District Judge for  necessaryaction	against	 the lawyers concerned.	 In  the-meantime  acriminal  case was started against Revashankar in the  courtof  the	 Additional City Magistrate, Circle No.	 2,  for  analleged	 offence under s. 497, Indian Penal Code.  The	casewas  started on the complaint of Ganga Ram.  That  case	 wasnumbered as 644 of 1953.  We then come to the crucial  date,namely,	 December 17, 1953.  On that date Revashankar  filedan  application	 in  the court of  the	Additional  DistrictMagistrate  who	 was in seizin of Criminal Case no.  637  of1953.	The  application purported to be one under  s.	528,Code of Criminal Procedure.  This application contained someserious	 aspersions  against  the  Magistrate,	Mr.  N.	  K.Acharya.   The	aspersions were summarised  by	the  learnedJudges	 of  the  High	Court  under  the   following	fourcategories.   The  first aspersion was that from  the  orderdated  October 12, 1953 it appeared that Mr. N.	 K.  Acharyawanted	to  favour Mr. Uma Shankar Chaturvedi.	 The  secondaspersion  was that from certain opinions expressed  by	 theMagistrate,  Revashankar asserted that he was sure  that  hewould	not  get  impartial  and  legal	 justice  from	 theMagistrate.   The  third  aspersion was of  a  more  seriouscharacter  and	it was that the Magistrate had a hand  in  aconspiracy  hatched by Messrs.	Mohan Singh and Uma  ShankarChaturvedi regarding certain ornaments of Chandra Mukhi	 Baiwith  the object of involving, Revashankar and	his  brotherSushil	Kumar  in a false case of theft of  ornaments.	 Thefourth aspersion was that Mr. Uma1375Shankar Chaturvedi had declared that he had paid Rs. 500  tothe  Magistrate	 through Ganga Ram.  These  aspersions	werelater  repeated	 in an affidavit on December 21,  1953.	  OnJanuary	 11,  1954,  the  learned  Magistrate  reported	 theaforesaid  facts to the Registrar of the Madhya Bharat	HighCourt,	and prayed for necessary action against	 Revashankarfor  contempt  of  court.  On this  report  the	 High  Courtdirected  the issue of notice to Revashankar to	 show  causewhy  action  should  not  be taken  against  him  under	 theContempt  of  Courts Act, 1952	and  Criminal  MiscellaneousApplication  no. 2 of 1954 was accordingly  started  againstRevashankar.   On March 3, 1954, Revashankar  showed  cause.The case was then heard by a Division Bench consisting of V.R.  Newaskar and S. M. Samvatsar, JJ. and by an order  datedFebruary 9, 1955, the learned Judges held that by reason  ofthe provisions in s. 3(2) of the Act the jurisdiction of theHigh  Court  was ousted inasmuch as the	 act  complained  ofconstituted  an	 offence under s. 228 of  the  Indian  PenalCode.  The question for consideration in the present  appealis if the aforesaid view of the High Court is correct.Mr.  H.	 J.  Umrigar,  who has appeared	 on  behalf  of	 theappellant,  has very strongly submitted before us  that	 theHigh  Court  has  erred	 in holding  that  the	act  of	 therespondent  complained	of constituted an offence  under  s.228,  Indian  Penal Code, and the jurisdiction of  the	HighCourt was, therefore, ousted by reason of the provisions  ins. 3(2) of the Act.  It is necessary to read first s.  :3(2)of  the	 Act.	We may state  here  that  the  correspondingsection	 in the earlier Contempt of Courts Act, 1926 was  s.2(3)  and in the judgment under consideration there is	someconfusion  as  to  the correct number  of  the	sub-section.Section 3(2) of the Act is in these terms :-" No High Court shall take cognizance of a contempt  allegedto have been committed in respect of a Court subordinate  toit  where such contempt is an offence punishable  under	 theIndian Penal Code (Act XLV of 1860)."1751376The  sub-section  was considered in two	 decisions  of	thisCourt, Bathina Ramakrishna Reddy v. The State of Madras	 (1)and Brahma Prakash Sharma v. The State of Uttar Pradesh (2).In  the earlier case of Ramakrishna Reddy (1) the  appellantwas  the  publisher and managing editor of a  Telugu  Weeklyknown  as  " Praja Rajyam ". In an issue of the	 said  paperdated February 10, 1949, an article appeared which containeddefamatory  statements about the stationary  sub-Magistrate,Kovvur,	  and  the  point  for	consideration  was  if	 thejurisdiction of the High Court to take cognisance of such  acase  was  expressly  barred under s. 2(3)  of	the  earlierContempt  of  Courts Act, when the allegations made  in	 thearticle	 in  question constituted an offence under  s.	499,Indian Penal Code.  On behalf of the appellant it was arguedthat what the subsection meant was that if the act by  whichthe  party  was alleged to have committed contempt  of	a  ssubordinate  court  constituted offence of  any	 descriptionwhatsoever punishable under the Indian Penal Code, the	HighCourt  was  precluded from taking cognizance  of  it.	Thisargument was repelled and this Court said (at page 429):-" In our opinion, the sub-section referred to above excludesthe jurisdiction of High Court only in cases where the	actsalleged	 to constitute contempt of a subordinate  court	 arepunishable  as	contempt under specific	 provisions  of	 theIndian Penal Code but not where these acts merely amount  tooffences of other description for which punishment has	beenprovided for in the Indian Penal Code.	This would be  clearfrom the language of the sub-section which uses the words  "where such contempt is an offence " and does not say " wherethe act alleged to constitute such contempt is an offence ".On an examination of the decisions of several High Courts inIndia it was laid down that the High Court had the right  toprotect	 subordinate courts against contempt but subject  tothis restriction, that cases of contempt which have  alreadybeen  provided	for in the Indian Penal Code should  not  betaken cognizance of(1) [1952] S.C.R. 425.(2) [1953] S.C.R. 1169.1377by  the High Court.  This, it was stated, was the  principleunderlying  s.	2(3) of the Contempt of	 Courts	 Act,  1926.This  Court  then  observed that it  was  not  necessary  todetermine exhaustively what were the cases of contempt whichhad  been already provided for in the Indian Penal Code;  itwas pointed out, however, that some light was thrown on	 thematter	by the provision of s. 480 of the Code	of  CriminalProcedure  which  empowers any civil,  criminal	 or  revenuecourt  to punish summarily a person who is found  guilty  ofcommitting  any offence under ss. 175, 178, 179, 180  or  s.228 of the Indian Penal Code in the view or presence of	 thecourt.	 The  later decision of Brahma	Prakash	 Sharma	 (1)explained   the	  true	object	of   contempt	proceedings.Mukherjea  J. who delivered the judgment of the	 Court	said(at page 1 176) :" It would be only repeating what has been said so often  byvarious	 Judges that the object of contempt  proceedings  isnot   to  afford  protection  to  Judges   personally	fromimputations to which they may be exposed as individuals;  itis intended to be a protection to the public whose interestswould be very much affected if by the act or conduct of	 anyparty,	the authority of the court is lowered and the  senseof  confidence	which people have in the  administration  ofjustice by it is weakened ".It was also pointed out that there were innumerable ways  bywhich  attempts could be made to hinder or obstruct the	 dueadministration	of  justice in courts and one type  of	suchinterference was found in cases where there was an act whichamounted  to  "	 scandalising  the  court  itself  ":	thisscandalising  might manifest itself in various ways  but  insubstance it was an attack on individual Judges or the courtas  a whole with or without reference to  particular  cases,causing	 unwarranted  and  defamatory  aspersions  upon	 thecharacter  and	ability	 of the	 Judges.   Such	 conduct  ispunished as contempt for the reason that it tends to  createdistrust  in the popular mind and impair the  confidence  ofthe  people in the courts which are of prime  importance  tothe  litigants	in  the	 protection  of	 their	rights	 andliberties.(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 1169.1378Bearing the aforesaid principles in mind, let us now examinethe case under consideration.  The High Court expressed	 theview  that  the act of the respondent complained  of  merelyamounted  to  an offence under s. 228,	Indian	Penal  Code.Nevaskar J. said:"  It  appears	to me that the application,  though  it	 wasstated	to be an application for transfer, was	intended  tooffend and insult the Magistrate.  A man's intention can  bejudged by the nature of the act he commits.  The applicationdirectly and in face attributes partiality and corruption tothe Magistrate.	 It was not an application made bona fide toa  court having jurisdiction to transfer the case from	thatCourt to some other Court.  It was an application thrown  inthe face of the Magistrate himself.  The action is no betterthan telling the Magistrate in face that he was partial	 andcorrupt.   The allegations in the application no  doubt	 areinsulting to the Magistrate and he felt them to be so and atthe  time  the application was submitted on  17th  December,1953,  when he was sitting as a Court and dealing  with	 thecase of the opponent.""  Thus,  since I hold that the opponent intended  to  offerinsult	to the Magistrate concerned there is no	 doubt	thatthe act would fall within the purview of section 228, IndianPenal  Code,  and this Court will be precluded	from  takingaction	for the contempt committed before the Court  of	 theMagistrate  by	reason of section 2(3) of  the	Contempt  ofCourts Act ".The other learned Judge also expressed the same view in	 thefollowing words:"  The subordinate Courts can sufficiently  vindicate  theirdignity	 by  proceeding	 against  the  offenders  under	 theprovisions  of criminal law in such cases.  Legislature	 hasdeemed it proper to exclude such cases from the jurisdictionof  the	 High Court under section 2(3) of  the	Contempt  ofCourts Act.  This, however, does not mean that High  Court'sjurisdiction  is  excluded  even  in  cases  where  the	 actcomplained  of, which is alleged to constitute contempt,  isotherwise an offence under the Indian Penal Code.""The question to be considered in this case is1379whether	 the  act complained of is  punishable	as  contemptunder any one of the specific provisions of the Indian PenalCode.  In other words whether it falls under any one of	 thesections  175,	178,  179, 180 or 228 of  the  Indian  PenalCode."" If the act complained of constitutes an offence under	 anyof  these sections, it can be dealt with by the	 subordinateCourt  itself  under section 480 of the	 Criminal  ProcedureCode  and  the	High  Court  will  have	 no  power  to	takecognizance of it under the Contempt of Courts Act."We are of the opinion that the learned Judges were wrong  intheir  view that prima facie the act complained of  amountedto an offence under s. 228, Indian Penal Code, and no  more.We are advisedly saying prima facie, because the High  Courtdid not go into the merits and we have no desire to make anyfinal pronouncement at this stage on the merits of the case.Section 228, Indian Penal Code, is in these terms:"  Whoever  intentionally offers any insult, or	 causes	 anyinterruption  to  any  public  servant,	 while	such  publicservant	 is sitting in any stage of a  judicial	 proceeding,shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a term  whichmay  extend to six months, or with fine which may extend  toone thousand rupees, or with both."The essential ingredients of the offence are (1)  intention,(2)  insult or interruption to a public servant and (3)	 thepublic	servant insulted or interrupted must be	 sitting  inany  stage  of a judicial proceeding.  In the  present	casethere is an initial difficulty which has been pointed out tous.   The respondent was sought to be proceeded	 against  byreason	of the aspersions he made in the  application  datedDecember  17,  1953, and the affidavit	dated  December	 21,1953.	It is not very clear from the record if the  learnedMagistrate was sitting in any stage of a judicial proceedingwhen the application and the affidavit were filed.  The HighCourt  no  doubt says that the Magistrate was sitting  as  acourt  at  the	time;  but there  is  no  reference  to	 theparticular work, judicial or otherwise, which the1380Magistrate  was doing at the time.  The practice as  to	 thefiling	of applications and affidavits varies from court  tocourt  and  in some courts applications and  affidavits	 arefiled  within  stated hours before the reader or  the  benchclerk;	they are so filed even when the Judge or  Magistrateis  in	chamber	 or  preoccupied  with	some  administrativeduties.	 So far as the present case is concerned, it is	 notat  all	 clear, from the record as placed before us,  as  towhat was the judicial work which the learned Magistrate	 wasdoing when the application and affidavit were filed.  If  hewas  not doing any judicial work at the relevant time,	thenthe  third  essential  ingredient mentioned  above  was	 notfulfilled  and the act complained of would not amount to  anoffence under s. 228, Indian Penal Code.We are not, however, basing our decision on the mere absenceof  materials  to  show what particular	 judicial  work	 thelearned	 Magistrate  was doing when the	 -application  datedDecember  17,  1953, and the affidavit	dated  December	 21,1953,  were  filed.  If that were the  only  infirmity,	 theproper order would be to ask for a finding on the  question.Our decision is based on a more fundamental ground.  Learnedcounsel	 for the parties have taken us through the  applica-tion  dated  December  17, 1953,  and  the  affidavit  datedDecember 21, 1953.  The aspersions made therein prima  facieshowed	that they were much more than a mere insult  to	 thelearned	 Magistrate ; in effect, they scandalised the  Courtin such a way as to create distrust in the popular mind	 andimpair	the  confidence	 of people in Courts.	Two  of	 theaspersions  made, taken at their face value, were  (1)	thatthe  learned  Magistrate  had  joined  in  a  conspiracy  toimplicate  the respondent in a false case of theft.  In	 theaffidavit it was stated that the learned Magistrate had sentfor  the  respondent and his brother and had asked  them  tomake  a	 false report to the police that  the  ornaments  ofChandra	 Mukhi Bai had been stolen.  The learned  Magistratecharacterised  the aspersion as totally false and said	thathe  neither knew the respondent nor his brother and  had  noacquaintance  with  them.  Another aspersion  was  that	 theMagistrate had taken a bribe1381of  Rs.	 500.  This aspersion was also stoutly	denied.	  Wemust make it clear here that at this stage we are expressingno opinion on merits, nor on the correctness or otherwise ofthe  aspersions	 made.	All that we are saying is  that	 theaspersions  taken  at their face value amounted to  what  iscalled scandalising the court itself, manifesting itself  insuch  an  attack  on  the Magistrate  as  tended  to  createdistrust  in the popular mind and impair the  confidence  ofthe  people in the courts.  We are aware that confidence  incourts	cannot be created by stifling criticism,  but  thereare  criticisms and criticisms.	 " The path of criticism  ",said  Lord Atkin in Ambard v. Attorney-General for  Trinidadand  Tobago  (1),  " is a public way:  The  wrongheaded	 arepermitted  to  err  therein: provided that  members  of	 thepublic	abstain	 from  imputing improper  motives  to  thosetaking	part  in  the administration  of  justice,  and	 aregenuinely exercising a right of criticism, and not acting inmalice	or  attempting	to  impair  the	 administration	  ofjustice,  they are immune ". If, therefore,  the  respondenthad  merely criticised the Magistrate, no notice  need	havebeen  taken of such criticism as contempt of court  whateveraction it might have been open to the Magistrate to take  asan  aggrieved  individual; but if the  respondent  acted  inmalice	and  attempted	to  impair  the	 administration	  ofjustice, the offence committed would be something more	thanan offence under s. 228, Indian Penal Code.Learned	 counsel for the respondent has contended before  usthat  as  soon as there is an element of insult in  the	 actcomplained  of, s. 228, Indian Penal Code, is attracted	 andthe jurisdiction of the High Court to take cognizance of thecontempt is ousted.  We are unable to accept this contentionas correct.  Section 228 deals with an intentional insult toa  public servant in certain circumstances.  The  punishmentfor the offence is simple imprisonment for a term which	 mayextend	to six months or with fine which may extend  to	 onethousand rupees or with both.  Our attention has been  drawnto the circumstance that under s. 4 of(1)  [1936] A. C.322, 335.1382the  Act the sentence for contempt of court is more or	lessthe  same, namely, simple imprisonment for a term which	 mayextend	to  six months.	 The fine is a little more  and	 mayextend	to  two	 thousand  rupees.  Section  4	of  the	 Actcontains a proviso that the accused person may be dischargedor  the punishment awarded may be remitted on apology  beingmade to the satisfaction of the court.	We do not,  however,think that a similarity of the sentence in the two  sectionsreferred to above is a real test.  The true test is: is	 theact  complained	 of an offence under s.	 228,  Indian  PenalCode,  or  is it something more than that ? If in  its	truenature	and  effect,  the  act complained  of  is  really  "scandalising the court " rather than a mere insult, then  itis  clear that on the ratio of our decision  in	 RamakrishnaReddy's	 case(1) the jurisdiction of the High Court  is	 notousted by reason of the provision in s. 3(2) of the Act.Mr. Umrigar has urged a further point in this connection andhas contended that for an offence under s. 228, Indian PenalCode,  the insult must be an intentional insult.  The  firstessential  requirement of the offence, according to him,  isthat  the  insult  must be offered  intentionally.   He	 haspointed out that the application which the respondent  filedpurported  to  be  an application  under  s.  528,  CriminalProcedure  Code, and though it is difficult to see how	thatsection	 applied in the present case, the intention  of	 therespondent  was not to insult the Magistrate, but merely  tostate the 'Circumstances in which the respondent was prayingfor  a	transfer of the case.  Mr. Umrigar has	pointed	 outthat  in  the reply which the repondent gave to	 the  noticeissued from the High Court, he said that he had no intentionto insult or show disrespect to the learned Magistrate.	 Mr.Umrigar	 has further submitted that the decision in  NarotamDas v. Emperor (2) (on which the learned Judges of the	HighCourt  relied) where in somewhat similiar  circumstances  itwas  held that s. 228, Indian Penal Code, applied, does	 notcorrectly lay down the law.  In that case Yorke J.  observedthat it would be a matter for(1) [1952] S.C.R. 425.(2) A.I.R. 1943 All. 97.1383consideration  in  each individual case how,  insulting	 theexpressions  used were and whether there was  any  necessityfor  the applicant to make use of those expressions  in	 theapplication  which  he	was actually making  to	 the  court.While we agree that the question of intention must depend onthe  facts and circumstances of each case, we are unable  toaccept	as correct the other tests laid down by the  learnedJudge as finally determinative of the question of intention.In  two earlier decisions of the same High Court,  in  QueenEmpress	 v. Abdullah Khan(1) and Emperor v. Murli Dhar	(2),it was held that where an accused person made an applicationfor transfer of the case pending against him and inserted insuch   application   assertions	 of  a	 defamatory   natureconcerning the Magistrate who was trying the case, there wasno  intention  on the part of the applicant  to	 insult	 thecourt, but the intention was merely to procure a transfer ofthe  case.  We do not think that any hard and fast rule	 canbe  laid down with regard to this matter.  Whether there  isan  intention to offer insult to the Magistrate	 trying	 thecase  or not must depend on the facts and  circumstances  ofeach  case  and	 we  do	 not  consider	it  necessary,	 noradvisable, to lay down any inflexible rule thereto.Taking	the  aspersions	 made  by  the	respondent  in	 theapplication dated December 17, 1953, and the affidavit datedDecember  21,  1953, at their face value,  we  have  alreadyexpressed the view that they amounted to something more thana mere intentional, personal insult to the Magistrate;	theyscandalised the court itself and impaired the administrationof  justice.  In that view of the matter s. 3(2) of the	 Actdid not stand in the way and the learned Judges of the	HighCourt were wrong in their view that the jurisdiction of	 theHigh Court was ousted.We  accordingly allow the appeal and set aside the order  ofthe  High  Court dated February 9, 1955.  In our  view,	 theHigh  Court had jurisdiction to take cognizance of  the	 actcomplained of and the case must(1) (1898) A.W.N. 145.176(2) (1916) 38 All. 284.1384now  be	 decided by the High Court on merits  in  accordancewith  law.   It	 is  only necessary  to	 add  that  the	 actcomplained  of was committed as far back as 1953 and  it  isdesirable   that   the	case  should  be   dealt   with	  asexpeditiously as possible.Appeal allowed.