PETITIONER:ARUN GHOSH	Vs.RESPONDENT:STATE OF WEST BENGALDATE OF JUDGMENT:02/12/1959BENCH:ACT:Preventive Detention Act (4 of 1950), s. 3(2)-Molestation ofindividual  women and assaults on other individualy  Whetherbreach of public order-Validity of detention.HEADNOTE:The   appellant	 molested  two	respectable   young   ladiesthreatened  their  father's  life and  assaulted  two  otherindividuals.	He  was	 detained  under  s.  3(2)  of	 thePreventive Detention Act, 1950 in order to prevent him	fromacting prejudicially to the maintenance of public order.On the question of the legality of the detention.HELD  :	 The question -whether a man has  only	committed  abreach of law and order, or has acted in a manner likely  tocause  a disturbance of the public order, is a	question  ofdegree and the extent of the reach of the, act upon society.The  test  is : Does it lead to a disturbance  of  the	eventempo  and current of life of the community so as to  amountto  a disturbance of the public order, or, does'  it  affectmerely	an individual without affecting the tranquillity  ofsociety. [290 H; 291 D]In  the present case, however reprehensible the	 appellant'sconduct	 might be, it did not add up to the situation  whereit may be 'said the community at large was being  disturbed.Therefore, it could not be said to amount to an apprehensionof breach of public order, and hence, he was entitled to  bereleased. [291 G-H]Dr.   Ram Manahar Lohia v. State of Bihar, [19661  1  S.C.R.709, relied upon.Pushkar	 Mukherjee  and Ors. v. The State  of  West  Bengal,[1969] 2 S.C.R. 635 and Shyamal Chakraborty v.	Commissionerof Police, Calcutta & Anr. [19701 1 S.C.R. 762, referred to.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION : Writ Petition No. 287 of 1969.Petition under Art. 32 of the Constitution of India for	 thewrit in the nature of habeas corpus.Janendra Lal, for the petitioner.S.   P.	 Mitra, G. S. Chatterjee for Sukumar Basu,  for	 therespondent.The Judgement of the Court was delivered byHidayatullah,  C.J.  The  petitioner  Arun  Ghosh  has	beendetained  by the District Magistrate Malda under s. 3(2)  ofthe,  Preventive Detention Act.	 The order was made on	June2,  1969 and he was arrested the following day.	  The  orderstates that it289was  made  to prevent him from acting prejudicially  to	 themaintenance    of   public   order.    His    representationwas.rejected by the Advisory board and also independently bythe State Government.  We have looked into the case, and aresatisfied  that	 there was no undue delay at  any  stage  indealing	 with the various aspects of his detention  as	laiddown in the Act.It  is, however, contended that the grounds which were	fur-nished	to  him	 on  June  3, 1969  do	not  bear  upon	 themaintenance  of public order or of his acting  prejudiciallyto the maintenance of public order.  This is the only  pointurged in support of the petition by the learned counsel.  Inthe  affidavit	filed in reply the District  Magistrate	 hassummarised the grounds-as 'anti-social activities  includingrioting,  assault and undue harassment to respectable  youngladies	in the public street of Malda town.' The details  ofthese  activities are to be found in the grounds and may  besummarised as follows18-5-1966-Teased  one Rekha Rani Barua, and when her  fatherprotested confined and assaulted him.29-3-1968-One Deepak Kumar Ray was wrongfully restrained andassaulted with lathis and rods.1-4-1968-Attempt was made to assault Deepak Kumar Ray at theMalda  Sadar  Hospital where he was being  treated  for	 hisinjuries in the previous assault.2-9-1968-Threatened  one  Phanindra  C. Das  that  he  wouldinsult his daughter publicly.26-10-1968-Embraced Uma Das d/o Phanindra C. Das  and  threw	      white powder on her face (Criminalcase started).7-12-1968-Obscenely teased Smt.	 Sima Das, sister of Uma Dasand beat her with chappals.18-12-1968-Smt.	 Sima Das was again teased.26-1-1969-Threatened the life of Phanindra C. Das.The  submission of the counsel is that these are stray	actsdirected  against  individuals	and are	 not  subversive  ofpublic	order and therefore the detention on the  ostensibleground of preventing him from acting in a manner prejudicialto  public  order  was not justified.  In  support  of	thissubmission  reference is made to three cases of this  Court:Dr.  Ram  Manohar  Lohia  v.  State  of	 Bihar(');   PushkarMukherjee and Others v. State of West Bengal(') and  ShyamalChakraborty v. The Commissioner of Police,(1) [19-66] 1 S.C.R. 709.(2) [1969]2  S.C.R. 635.290Calcutta  and Another(1).  In Dr. Ram Manohar  Lohia's	casethis Court pointed out the difference between maintenance oflaw  and  order and its disturbance and the  maintenance  ofpublic order and its disturbance.  Public order was said  toembrace	 more of the community than law and  order.   Publicorder is the even tempo of the life of the community  takingthe  country  as  a  whole or  even  a	specified  locality.Disturbance of public order is to be distinguished from actsdirected  against  individuals	which  do  not	disturb	 thesociety	 to the extent of causing a general  disturbance  ofpublic	tranquillity.  It is the degree of  disturbance	 andits  effect  upon the life of the community  in	 a  localitywhich  determines whether the disturbance amounts only to  abreach	of  law and order.  Take for instance, a  man  stabsanother.  People may be shocked and even disturbed, but	 thelife of the community keeps moving at an even tempo, howevermuch  one may dislike the act.	Take another case of a	townwhere  there is communal tension.  A man stabs a  member  ofthe,  other community.	This is an act of a  very  differentsort.	Its implications are deeper and it affects the	eventempo  of life and public order is jeopardized	because	 therepercussions of the ambrace large sections of the communityand  incite  them to make further breaches of 'the  law	 andorder and to subvert the public order.	An act by. itself isnot  determinant of its own gravity.  In its quality it	 maynot  differ from another but in its potentiality it  may  bevery different.	 Take the case of assault on girls.  A guestat a hotel may kiss or make advances to half a dozen chambermaids.	 He  may annoy them and also the management  but  hedoes  not  cause disturbance of public order.  He  may	evenhave a fracas with the friends of one of the girls but	eventhen  it  would be a case of breach of law and	order  only.Take  another  case  of a man who molests  women  in  lonelyplaces.	  As  a	 result of his	activities  girls  going  tocolleges and schools are in constant danger and fear.  Womengoing  for  their  ordinary business  are  afraid  of  beingwaylaid	 and  assaulted.  The activity of this	man  in	 itsessential quality is not different from the act of the otherman  but  in  its potentiality and in its  affect  upon	 thepublic tranquillity there is a vast difference.	 The act  ofthe  man  who molests the girls in lonely  places  causes  adisturbance in the- even tempo of living which is the  firstrequirement  of public order.  He disturbs the	society	 andthe community.	His act makes all the women apprehensive  oftheir honour and he can be said to be causing disturbance ofpublic	order and not merely committing	 individual  actionswhich  may  be	taken note of by  the  criminal	 prosecutionagencies.   It means therefore that the question  whether  aman  has  only committed a breach of law and  order  or	 hasacted  in  a  manner likely to cause a	disturbance  of	 thepublic	order is a question of degree and the extent of	 thereach(1)  [1970] 1 S.C.R. 762.291of the act upon the society.  The French distinguish law andorder  and public order by designating the latter  as  orderpublique.  The	latter	expression has	been  recognised  asmeaning something more, than ordinary maintenance of law andorder.	 Justice Ramaswami in Writ Petition No. 179 of	1968drew   a  line	of  demarcation	 between  the  serious	 andaggravated forms of breaches B Of Public order which  affectthe community or endanger the public interest at large	fromminor  breaches of peace which do not affect the  public  atlarge.	 He  drew  an analogy  between	public	and  privatecrimes.	 The analogy is useful but not to be pushed too far.A  large number of acts directed against persons or  indivi-duals  may total up into a breach of public order.   In	 Dr.Ram Manohar Lohia's (1) case examples were given by  Sarkar,and  Hidayatullah,  JJ.	  They	show  how  similar  acts  indifferent  contexts affect differently law and order on	 theone  hand  and public order on the other.  It  is  always  aquestion  of  degree, of the harm and its  effect  upon	 thecommunity.   The  question  to	ask is :  Does	it  lead  todisturbance of the current of life of the community so as toamount	to  a  disturbance of the public order	or  does  itaffect merely an individual leaving the tranquillity of	 thesociety	 undisturbed  ? This question has to  be  failed  inevery case on facts.  There is no formula by which one	casecan be distinguished from another.In the present case the acts of the petitioner affected	 thefamily	of Phanindra C. Das and also two  other	 individualswho  were assaulted.  The case is distinguishable from	WritPetition  No. 102 of 1969 where three instances	 of  riotingarmed  with lathis, iron rods and acid bulbs etc. were	heldsufficient to disturb the even tempo of public life in	thatlocality  and were treated as disturbance of  public  order.On the other hand in Writ Petition No. 179 of 1968  assaultson four persons A, B, C and D and throwing a cracker into  apolice	wireless  van  were  not  held	to  add	 up  to	 thedisturbance of public order.  They were treated as  separateacts  which  affected  individuals but did  not	 affect	 thecommunity at large.In  the present case all acts of molestation  were  directedagainst the family of Phanindra C. Das and were not directedagainst G women in general from the locality.  Assaults alsowere  on individuals.  The conduct may be reprehensible	 butit  does  not add up to the situation where it may  be	saidthat the community at large was being disturbed or in  otherwords there was a breach of public order or likelihood of  abreach of public order.	 The case falls within the dictum ofJustice	 Ramaswami  and	 the distinction  made	in  Dr.	 RamManahar Lohia's case(1)The result therefore is that however reprehensible the	con-duct of Arun Ghosh may be, it cannot be said to amount to an(1)  [1966] 1 S.C.R. 709.292apprehension  of breach of public order for which alone	 hisdetention could be ordered. -Heis    entitled	to    bereleased   and	we  order  accordingly.	 He  will   releasedforthwith unless required in  some other connection.V.P.S.			      Petition allowed.293