PETITIONER:DWARKA DASS BHATIA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF JAMMU AND KASHMIR.DATE OF JUDGMENT:01/11/1956BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1957 AIR  164		  1956 SCR  948ACT:Preventive   Detention-Grounds	based  on  alleged   illicitsmuggling  of  three   categories  of  essential  goods	  toPakistan-Two  categories  found not to be  essential  goods-Whether order of detention bad Jammu and Kashmir  PreventiveDetention Act, 2011, ss. 3(2) and 12(1).HEADNOTE:The  petitioner	 was  detained	by virtue  of  an  order  ofdetention passed by the District Magistrate, Jammu, under s.3(2) of the Jammu and Kashmir Preventive Detention Act, 2011and  that  order  was confirmed and continued  by  an  orderpassed	by the Government of the State of Jammu and  Kashmirunder  s. 12(1) of the Act after taking the opinion  of	 theAdvisory Board.	 The order recited that it was necessary  todetain	the  petitioner with a view to preventing  him	fromacting	in  a  manner  prejudicial  to	the  maintenance  ofsupplies  and  services essential to the community  and	 wasbased  on  the ground of alleged illicit  smuggling  by	 thepetitioner  of essential goods such as shaff on cloth,	zariand  mercury to Pakistan.  It was found that  shaffon  clothand  zari were not essential goods.  It was not	 establishedthat   the  smuggling  attributed  to  the  petitioner	 wassubstantially  only  of. mercury or that  the  smuggling  asregards	 shaffon  cloth and zari was of	 an  inconsequentialnature.Held, that the order was bad and must be quashed.  The	sub-jective	 satisfaction  of the detaining	 authority  must  beproperly based on all the reasons on which it purports to bebased.	 If some out of those reasons are found to  be	non-existent or irrelevant, the Court cannot predicate what	 thesubjective satisfaction of the authority would have been  onthe exclusion of those reasons.	 To949uphold	the  order  on the remaining  reasons  would  be  tosubstitute  the	 objective standards of the  Court  for	 thesubjective  satisfaction of the authority.  The Court  must,however,  be satisfied that the vague or irrelevant  groundsare such as, if excluded, might reasonably have affected thesubjective satisfaction of the authority.Keshav Talpade v. The King Emperor ([1943] F.C.R. 88),	AtmaRam  Sridhar  Vaidya's	case ([1951] S.C.R.  167),  Dr.	 RamKrishan	 Bhardwaj v. The State of Delhi ([1953] S.C.R.	708)and Shibban Lal Saksena v. The State of U.P. ([1954]  S.C.R.418), relied on.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 172 of 1956.Under  Article	32  of the Constitution for a  writ  in	 thenature of Habeas Corpus.S. N. Andely, amicus curiae, for the petitioner.Porus  A.  Mehta,  T.  M. Sen and  R.  H.  Dhebar,  for	 therespondent.1956.	November 1. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyJAGANNADHADAS J.-This is an application under article 32  ofthe  Constitution for the issue of a writ in the  nature  ofhabeas corpus against the State of, Jammu and Kashmir by thepetitioner  who	 was under detention by virtue of  an  orderdated  the 5th September, 1956, issued by the Government  ofthe State of Jammu and Kashmir under sub-section (2) of sec-tion 3 taken with sub-section (1) of section 12 of Jammu andKashmir Preventive Detention Act, 2011 (hereinafter referredto  as	the  Act).  The petitioner was	first  placed  underdetention  by  virtue  of an order passed  by  the  DistrictMagistrate, Jammu, under subsection (2) of section 3 of	 theAct  on the 1st May, 1956, and that order was confirmed	 andcontinued on the 5th September, 1956, under sub-section	 (1)of section 12 of the Act by the Government after taking	 theopinion of the Advisory Board.	The two orders of detention,one of the District Magistrate dated the 1st May, 1956,	 andthe  other of the Government dated the 5th September,  1956,recited	 that  the  petitioner is directed  to	be  detainedbecause it was, necessary to make such an order "with a viewto preventing him950from  acting in a manner prejudicial to the  maintenance  ofsupplies  and  services essential to  the  community".	 Thegrounds	 of detention as communicated to the  petitioner  onthe  31st May, 1956, by the District Magistrate, Jammu,	 areas -follows:"1.  That  you carried on smuggling of	essential  goods  toPakistan through the Ferozpur and Amritsar border, but sincethe  tightening	 of said borders you have  recently  shiftedyour   smuggling  activities  to  Ranbirsinghpura   Pakistanborders	 in the State of Jammu and Kashmir and are  carryingon illicit smuggling of essential goods such as cloth,	zariand mercury to Pakistan through this border (thus  affectingthe  economic  condition  of the  public  in  Kashmir  Stateadversely).2.   That  for	the said purpose of smuggling  of  goods  toPakistan you went to village Darsoopura on 7th April,  1956,and  contacted	Ghulam Ahmed son of Suraj  bin	resident  ofDarsoopura  Tehsil  Ranbirsinghpura and one Ram Lal  son  ofFrangi	resident of Miran Sahib Tehsil	Ranbirsinghpura	 andothers	who I similarly are addicted to carrying on  such  asmuggling business and with their aid made arrangements	 forexport of Shaffon cloth worth Rs. 2,500 to Pakistan  throughRanbirsinghpura Pakistan border.3.   That  on  11-4-1956, you booked 3 bales of	 silk  cloththrough Messrs Jaigopal Rajkumar Shegal of Amritsar to JammuTawi and got these bales on address of yourself, and on	 thesame day you got one package of Tila booked through S. KantiLal  Zarianwalla  of  Amritsar and  got	 this  package	alsoaddressed "To self" for Jammu Tawi.That after booking these packages as aforesaid you came overto  Jammu and waited for their arrival and contacted  GhulamAhmed and Ram Lal the above mentioned persons.That on the 15th April, 1956, you tried to get the transportreceipt from the Punjab National.  Bank but did not  succeedin  doing  so as it was a public  holiday.   Meanwhile	youractivities leaked out and the goods951were seized by the Central Customs and Excise Department  ofIndia.2.There are other facts also but those cannot be given as  Iconsider  their	 disclosure  would  be	against	 the  publicinterest.That by resorting to the above activities you have been	 andare acting in a manner prejudicial to the maintenance of thesupplies and services essential to the community".It  will be seen from the above grounds that the reason	 forthe detention is the alleged "illicit smuggling of essentialgoods  such as cloth, zari and mercury to  Pakistan  throughthe border, thereby affecting the economic condition of	 thepublic,	 in Kashmir State adversely".  From the	 particularsset  out in paragraph 2 of the grounds, it appears that	 thecloth referred to in paragraph I is Shaffon cloth.  The HighCourt  of Jammu and Kashmir, to whom a	similar	 applicationwas  filed by this petitioner along with a number of  otherssimilarly  detained for illicit smuggling of goods,  has  inits  judgment dated the 21st June, 1956" held  that  Shaffoncloth  is not within the category of an essential  commodityas  defined  in the Essential  Supplies	 (Temporary  Powers)Ordinance  of Jammu and Kashmir.  There is no indication  inthe  High  Court  judgment  whether zari is  or	 is  not  anessential  commodity in the same sense.	 But in answer to  aquery from this Court, Shri Porus Mehta who appeared  beforeus  on behalf of the State of Jammu and Kashmir has  stated,on  instructions,  that	 zari which is	obviously  a  luxuryarticle	 is  not one of the commodities	 declared  essentialunder  the above Ordinance.  The High Court, when  it  dealtwith the batch of applications, of which the application  ofthe petitioner before us was one, set aside the detention ofnumber of others on the ground that the smuggling attributedto  the	 individuals  concerned in those cases	was  not  ofessential goods.  So far as this petitioner is concerned theHigh Court held as follows:"The case of Dwarika Das Bhatia stands on s952different footing altogether.  The allegation against him isthat he smuggled into Pakistan some goods such as cloth	 andzari along with a certain quantity of mercury.	Mercury is anon-ferrous  metal  and according to the  definition  of  anessential   commodity  given  in  the	Essential   Supplies(Temporary  Powers)  Ordinance,	 mercury  is  an   essentialcommodity.   This being so, Dwarika Das	 Bhatia's  detentioncannot be challenged".The  point raised before us is that since the  detention  isbased on the assumption that Shaffon cloth and zari as	wellas mercury are all essential goods and since two out of	 thethree  categories  of  the  goods  with	 reference  to	 thesmuggling  of  which the detention has	been  directed,	 arefound  not  to	be  essential goods,  the  entire  order  isillegal,  although  one of the items, viz.,  mercury  is  anessential  commodity.	In support of this  contention,	 thecases  of this Court in Dr.  Ram Krishan Bhardwaj  v.  The,,State  of Delhi(1), and Shibban Lal Saksena v. The State  ofU. P. (2) are relied upon.  Learned counsel for the State ofJammu  and  Kashmir  contends that the	principle  of  thesedecisions  has	no  application to  the	 present  case,	 andattempts  to distinguish the same.  In order  to  understandthe principle underlying these two cases, it is necessary toexamine them in some detail.In  Dr. Ram Krishan Bhardwaj's case (supra) the	 two  pointsthat  were raised were (1) whether an order of detention  isinvalid	 if  the  grounds supplied in  support	thereof	 arevague,	and (2) whether the vagueness of one or some of	 thevarious	 grounds  vitiates the entire order.   The  argumentadvanced in that case was based on the view adopted by	thisCourt in the decision in Atma Ram Sridhar Vaidya's  case(3),viz., that the obligation cast on the detaining authority tosupply	grounds is for the purpose of enabling a detenue  tomake a fair representation to the authority concerned and tothe  Advisory  Board, against the order of  detention.	 Theargument was that in a(1) [1953] S.C.R. 708.	       (2) [1954] S C.R. 418.(3)[1951] S C.R. 167.953case  where  one  or  more of the  grounds  are	 vague,	 thepetitioner   is	  handicapped	in   making   an    adequaterepresentation as regards that ground and his representationeven if effective in respect of the other grounds, may	failto carry conviction as regards the ground which is vague andthat  this  might result in the detention  being  confirmed.The  Court stated that that argument was not  without  forceand held as follows:"The question however is not whether the petitioner will  infact be prejudicially affected in the matter of securing hisrelease	   by	his   representation,	but   whether	 hisconstitutional	safeguard  has been  infringed.	  Preventivedetention is a serious invasion of personal liberty and suchmeager	safeguards as the Constitution has provided  againstthe improper exercise of the power must be jealously watchedand  enforced by the Court.......... We are Of opinion	thatthis  constitutional  requirement  must	 be  satisfied	withrespect	 to each of the grounds communicated to	 the  persondetained,  subject  of course to a claim  of  the  privilegeunder  clause (6) of article 22.  That not having been	donein regard to the ground mentioned.......... the petitioner'sdetention  cannot  be  held to be  in  accordance  with	 theprocedure  established by law within the meaning of  article21".Shibban Lal Saksena v. The State of U. P. (supra) is a	casewhere  the question arose in a different form.	The  groundsof  detention communicated to the detenue were	of  two-foldcharacter, i.e., fell under two different categories,  viz.,(1)  prejudicial  to maintenance of  supplies  essential  tocommunity, and (2) injurious to maintenance of public order.When the matter was referred to the Advisory Board, it	heldthat  the first of the above grounds was not made out  as  afact  but  upheld  the	order on  the  second  ground.	 Thequestion  before the court was whether this confirmation  ofthe original order of detention, when one of the two groundswas found to be non-existent by the Advisory Board, could bemaintained.   Their  Lordships	dealt  with  the  matter  asfollows:124954"It has been repeatedly held by this court that the power toissue  a detention order under section 3 of  the  PreventiveDetention Act depends entirely upon the satisfaction of	 theappropriate  authority	specified  in  that  section.	 Thesufficiency  Of	 the grounds upon  which  such	satisfactionpurports  to  be  based,  provided  they  have	a   rationalprobative  value  and  are not extraneous to  the  scope  orpurpose of the legislative provision cannot be challenged ina court of law, except on the ground of mala fides.  A Courtof  law is not even competent to enquire into the  truth  orotherwise  of  the facts which are mentioned as	 grounds  ofdetention in the communication to the detenue under  section7 of the Act."Posing the situation which arises in such cases where one ofthe  grounds is found to be irrelevant or  un.substantiated,the Court stated as follows:"The question is, whether in such circumstances the originalorder made under section 3(1) (a) of the Act can be  allowedto  stand.  The answer, in our opinion, can only be  in	 thenegative.  The detaining authority gave here two grounds fordetaining  the	petitioner.  We can neither  decide  whetherthese  grounds are good or bad nor can we attempt to  assessin  what  manner and to what extent each  of  these  groundsoperated  on  the  mind of  the	 appropriate  authority	 andcontributed to the creation of the satisfaction on the basisof  which  the detention order was made.  To  say  that	 theother  ground, which still remains, is quite  sufficient  tosustain	 the  order,  would be to  substitute  an  objectivejudicial  test for the subjective decision of the  executiveauthority which is against the legislative policy underlyingthe statute.  In such cases, we think, the position would bethe  same as if one of these two grounds was irrelevant	 forthe purpose of the Act or was wholly illusory and this wouldvitiate	 the  detention order as a whole.   This  principle,which  was  recognised by the Federal Court in the  case  ofKeshav	Talpade	 v. The King Emperor(1), seems to us  to  bequite sound and applicable to the facts of this case".(1)  [1943] F.C.R. 88.955In  Keshav  Talpade's case(1) the learned Judges  stated  asfollows:"If a detaining authority gives four reasons for detaining aman,  without  distinguishing between them, and any  two  orthree  of  the reasons are held to be bad, it can  never  becertain to what extent the bad reasons operated on the	mindof  the authority or whether the detention order would	havebeen  made at all if only one or two good reasons  bad	beenbefore them".The  principle underlying all these decisions is this  poweris vested in a statutory authority to deprive the liberty ofa subject on its subjective satisfaction with reference	 to-specified  matters,  if that satisfaction is  stated  to  bebased on a Dumber of grounds or for a variety of reasons alltaken together, and if some out of them are found to be non-existent  or irrelevant, the very exercise of that power  isbad.   That is so, because the matter being one for  subjec-tive  satisfaction,  it must be properly based. on  all	 thereasons	 on which it purports to be based.  If some ,out  ofthem  are found to be non-existent or irrelevant, the  Courtcannot	predicate  what the subjective satisfaction  of	 thesaid  authority	 would have been on the exclusion  of  thosegrounds or reasons.  To uphold the validity of such an orderin spite of the invalidity of some of the reasons or groundswould be to substitute the-objective standards of the  Courtfor the subjective satisfaction of the statutory  authority.In  applying  these principles, however, the Court  must  besatisfied that the vague or irrelevant grounds are such as-,if  excluded, might reasonably have affected the  subjectivesatisfaction of the appropriate authority.  It is not merelybecause some ground or reason of a comparatively unessentialnature	is defective that such an order based on  subjectivesatisfaction  can  be held to be invalid.  The	Court  whileanxious to safeguard the personal liberty of the  individualwill  not lightly interfere with such orders.  It is in	 thelight of these principles that the validity of the  impugnedorder has to be judged.(1) [1943] F. C. R. 88.956In this case, the order of detention is based on the  groundthat  the  petitioner  was  engaged  in	 unlawful  smugglingactivities  relating to three commodities, cloth,  zari	 andmercury of which two are found not to be essential articles.No material is placed before us enabling us to say that	 thesmuggling  attributed  to the petitioner  was  substantiallyonly of mercury and that the smuggling as regards the  othertwo  commodities was of an inconsequential nature.   On	 theother  hand the fact that the particulars furnished  to	 thedetenue on the 31st May, 1956, relate only to cloth and zari(we understand that tila referred to in paragraph 3 is zari)indicates that probably the smuggling of these two items wasnot of an inconsequential nature.We are, therefore, clearly of the opinion that the order  ofdetention in this case is bad and must be quashed.  We	haveaccordingly  quashed  the  order and  directed	the  releaseforthwith of the detenue on the conclusion of the hearing onthe 29th October, 1956.				    Petition allowed.