PETITIONER:VIRSA SINGH.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF PUNJABDATE OF JUDGMENT:11/03/1958BENCH:BOSE, VIVIANBENCH:BOSE, VIVIANIMAM, SYED JAFFERGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1958 AIR  465		  1958 SCR 1495ACT:Criminal  Trial--Culpable  homicide  amounting	to  murder--Prosecution   to   Prove-Presence  and	Nature	 of   Injury-Intention  to cause that Particular Injury, which  was	 notaccidental  or	unintentional and was  sufficient  to  causedeath  in the ordinary (course of nature--Indian Penal	Code(Act XLII of 1860), s. 300, 3rdly.HEADNOTE:The accused thrust a spear into the abdomen of ,he deceased.This injury caused his death.  In the opinion of the  doctorthe  injury  was sufficient to cause death in  the  ordinarycourse	of nature.  It was found by the Sessions judge	thatthe  accused intended to cause grievous hurt only.   In	 hisopinion however the third clause Of S. 300 Indian Penal Codeapplied.  He accordingly convicted and sentenced the accusedunder  S. 302 India, Penal Code.  The High Court upheld	 theconviction,  It was argued that the third clause Of  s.	 300Indian	Penal Code did not apply as it was not	proved	thatthe accused intended to inflict a1496bodily	injury	that was sufficient to cause  death  in	 theordinary course of nature as s. 300 Indian Penal Code  thirdclause states, " If it is done with the intention of causingbodily	injury to any person and the bodily injury  intendedto  be	inflicted is sufficient in the	ordinary  course  ofnature to cause deathHeld,  that the prosecution must prove the following  beforeit  can	 bring a case under s. 300 Indian Penal	 Code  thirdclause.(1)  It	 must establish, quite objectively,  that  a  bodilyinjury is present.(2)  The  nature  of the injury must be	 proved;  these	 arepurely objective investigations.(3)  It	 must  be  proved that there  was  an  intention  toinflict that particular injury, that is to say, that it	 wasnot accidental or unintentional, or that some other kind  ofinjury was intended.(4)  It	 must  be proved that the injury of  the  type	justdescribed  made up of the three elements set out  above	 wassufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of  nature.This part of the enquiry is purely objective and inferentialand has nothing to do with the intention of the offender.The third clause of S. 300 Indian Penal Code consists of twoparts.	 Under the first part it must be proved	 that  therewas  an intention to inflict the injury that is found to  bepresent and under the second part it must be proved that theinjury	was sufficient in the ordinary course of  nature  tocause death.  The words " and the bodily injury intended  tobe  inflicted " are merely descriptive.	 All this means	 is,that  it is not enough to prove that the injury found to  bepresent is sufficient to cause death in the ordinary  courseof  nature  ; it must in addition be shown that	 the  injuryfound to be present was the injury intended to be inflicted.Whether	 it  was sufficient to cause death in  the  ordinarycourse of nature is a matter of inference or deduction	fromthe  proved  facts about the nature of the  injury  and	 hasnothing to do with the question of intention.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Criminal Appeal No. 90  of1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedNovember  21,  1956, of the Punjab High	 Court	in  CriminalAppeal No. 326 of 1956 arising out of the judgment and orderdated  June 26, 1956, of the Court of the Sessions Judge  atFerozepore in Sessions Case No. 8 of 1956.Jai  Gopal Sethi and R. L. Kohli, for the appellant.  N.  S.Bindra	and T. M. Sen, for the respondent.1958.	March 11.   The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredby1497BOSE  J.-The  appellant Virsa Singh has	 been  sentenced  toimprisonment for life under s. 302 of the Indian Penal	Codefor  the murder of one Khem Singh.  He was  granted  specialleave to appeal by this Court but the leave is limited to"  the question that on the finding accepted by	 the  PunjabHigh Court what offence is made out as having been committedby the petitioner."The appellant was tried with five others under sss.  302/49,324/149 and 323/149 Indian Penal Code.	He was also  chargedindividually under s. 302.The other, were acquitted of the murder charge by the  firstCourt  but  were convicted under ss. 326, 324 and  323	readwith s. 149, Indian Penal Code.	 On appeal to the High Courtthey were all acquitted.The appellant was convicted by the first Court under s.	 302and  his  conviction and sentence were upheld  by  the	HighCourt.There was only one injury on Khem Singh and both Courts	 areagreed	that the appellant caused it.  It was caused as	 theresult	of a spear thrust and the doctor who  examined	KhemSingh, while he was still alive, said that it was"  a punctured wound 2" x 1/2"	transverse in  direction  onthe left side of the abdominal wall in the lower part of theiliac region just above the inguinal canal.He also said that" Three coils of intestines were coming out of the wound."The incident occurred about 8 p. m. on July 13, 1955.	KhemSingh died about 5 p. m. the following day.The doctor who conducted the postmortem described the injuryas-" an oblique incised stitched wound 21/2" on the lower	partof left side of belly, 13" above the left inguinal ligament.The injury was through the whole thickness of the  abdominalwall.	Peritonitis was present and there was digested	foodin that cavity.	 Flakes of pus were sticking round the smallintestines1498and  there  were six cuts......... at  various	places,	 anddigested food was flowing out from three cuts."The  doctor  said that the injury was  sufficient  to  causedeath in the ordinary course of nature.The  learned Sessions Judge found that the appellant was  21or 22 years old and said-" When the common object of the assembly seems to have	beento  cause grievous hurts only, I do not suppose Virsa  Singhactually had the intention to cause the death of Khem Singh,but by a rash and silly act he gave a rather forceful  blow,which	ultimately  caused  his	 death.	  Peritonitis	alsosupervened  and that hastened the death of Khem Singh.	 Butfor  that Khem Singh may perhaps not have died or  may	havelived a little longer."Basing	on those facts, he said that the case fell under  s.300,  3rdly and so he convicted under s. 302,  Indian  PenalCode.The  learned  High Court Judges considered  that  the  wholeaffair	was sudden and occurred on a chance meeting  ".	 Butthey  accepted the finding that the appellant inflicted	 theinjury on Khem Singh and accepted the medical testimony thatthe blow was a fatal one.It  was argued with much circumlocution that the  facts	 setout  above do not disclose an offence of murder because	 theprosecution  has not proved that there was an  intention  toinflict	 a bodily injury that was sufficient to cause  deathin  the ordinary course of nature.  Section 300,  3rdly	 wasquoted:" If it is done with the intention of causing bodily  injuryto any person and the bodily injury intended to be inflictedis  sufficient	in the ordinary course of  nature  to  causedeath."It  was	 said that the intention that the  section  requiresmust  be related, not only to the bodily  injury  inflicted,but  also to the clause, "and the bodily injury intended  tobe inflicted is sufficient in the ordinary course of  natureto cause death."This  is  a favourite argument in this kind of case  but  isfallacious.   If there is an intention to inflict an  injurythat is sufficient to cause death in the ordinary1499course of nature, then the intention is to kill and in	thatevent,	the "thirdly " would be unnecessary because the	 actwould fall under the first part of the section, namely-"  If the act by which the death is caused is done with	 theintention of causing death."In  our	 opinion,  the	two  clauses  are  disjunctive	 andseparate.  The first is subjective to the offender:"If  it is done with the intention of causing bodily  injuryto any person."It  must, of course, first be found that bodily	 injury	 wascaused	and  the nature of the injury must  be	established,that is to say, whether the injury is on the leg or the	 armor  the stomach, how deep it penetrated, whether  any  vitalorgans	were cut and so forth.	These are  purely  objectivefacts and leave no room for inference or deduction: to	thatextent	the enquiry is objective; but when it comes  to	 thequestion  of intention, that is subjective to  the  offenderand it must be proved that he had an intention to cause	 thebodily injury that is found to be present.Once that is found, the enquiry shifts to the next clause-"  and	the  bodily  injury  intended  to  be  inflicted  issufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death."The first part of this is descriptive of the earlier part ofthe  section, namely, the infliction of bodily	injury	withthe  intention	to  inflict  it, that  is  to  say,  if	 thecircumstances  justify an inference that a  man's  intentionwas only to inflict a blow on the lower part of the leg,  orsome  lesser blow, and it can be shown that the blow  landedin  the	 region of the heart by accident, then,	 though	 allinjury to the heart is shown to be present, the intention toinflict ail injury in that region, or of that nature, is notproved.	 In that case, the first part of the clause does notcome  into  play.  But once it is proved that there  was  anintention to inflict the injury that is found to be present,then the earlier part of the clause we are now examining1901500" and the bodily injury intended to be inflicted " is merelydescriptive.  All it means is that it is not enough to provethat  the injury found to be present is sufficient to  causedeath in the ordinary course of nature; it must in  additionbe  shown that the injury is of the kind that  falls  withinthe  earlier  clause, namely, that the injury  found  to  bepresent	 was the injury that was intended to  be  inflicted.Whether	 it  was sufficient to cause death in  the  ordinarycourse of nature is a matter of inference or deduction	fromthe  proved  facts about the nature of the  injury  and	 hasnothing to do with the question of intention.In  considering	 whether the intention was  to	inflict	 theinjury found to have been inflicted, the enquiry  necessarlyproceeds  on broad lines as, for example, whether there	 wasan  intention to strike at a vital or a dangerous spot,	 andwhether	 with sufficient force to cause the kind  of  injuryfound  to  have	 been  inflicted.  It  is,  of	course,	 notnecessary  to  enquire	into  every  last  detail  as,	 forinstance,  whether the prisoner intended to have the  bowelsfall  out, or whether he intended to penetrate the liver  orthe  kidneys  or  the heart.  Otherwise, a man	who  has  noknowledge  of anatomy could never be convicted, for,  if  hedoes  not know that there is a heart or a kidney or  bowels,be  cannot  be	said to have intended to  injure  them.	  Ofcourse,	 that is not the kind of enquiry.  It is  broadbasedand  simple and based on common sense: the kind	 of  enquirythat " twelve good men and true could readily appreciate andunderstand.To put it shortly, the prosecution must prove the  followingfacts before it can bring a case under s. 300, 3rdly " ;First,	it must establish, quite objectively, that a  bodilyinjury is present ;Secondly, the nature of the injury must be proved; These arepurely objective investigations.Thirdly,  it must be proved that there was an  intention  toinflict that particular bodily injury, that is to say,	thatit  was not accidental or unintentional, or that some  otherkind of injury was intended.1501Once  these  three elements are proved to  be  present,	 theenquiry proceeds further and,Fourthly, it must be proved that the injury of the type justdescribed  made	 up of the three elements set out  above  issufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of  nature.This part of the enquiry is purely objective and inferentialand has nothing to do with the intention of the offender.Once these four elements are established by the	 prosecution(and,	of  course,  the  burden  is  on   the	 prosecutionthroughout)  the offence is murder under s. 300, 3rdly.	  Itdoes not matter that there was no intention to cause  death.It does not matter that there was Do intention even to causean injury of a kind that is sufficient to cause death in theordinary  course  of  nature (not that	there  is  any	realdistinction between the two).  It does not even matter	thatthere  is  no  knowledge that an act of that  kind  will  belikely	to  cause death.  Once the intention  to  cause	 thebodily	injury actually found to be present is	proved,	 therest  of  the  enquiry	is purely  objective  and  the	onlyquestion  is  whether,	as  a  matter  of  purely  objectiveinference,  the injury is sufficient in the ordinary  courseof  nature  to	cause death.  No one has a  licence  to	 runaround	inflicting  injuries that are  sufficient  to  causedeath  in the ordinary course of nature and claim that	theyare not guilty of murder.  If they inflict injuries of	thatkind,  they  must face the consequences; and they  can	onlyescape	if it can be shown, or reasonably deduced  that	 theinjury was accidental or otherwise unintentional.We  were  referred  to a decision of Lord Goddard  in  R  v.Steane (1) where the learned Chief Justice says that where aparticular intent must be laid and charged, that  particularintent must be proved.	Of course it must, and of course  itmust  be proved by the prosecution.  The only question	hereis, what is the extent and nature of the intent that s.	 3003rdly requires, and how is it to be proved ?The  learned  counsel  for the appellant next  relied  on  apassage where the learned Chief Justice says that:(1)  [1947] 1 All E. R. 813, 816.1502"if, on the totality of the evidence, there is room for morethan  one  view as to the intent of the prisoner,  the	juryshould	be directed that it is for the prosecution to  provethe  intent to the jury's satisfaction, and if, on a  reviewof the whole evidence, they either think that the intent didnot  exist or they are left in doubt as to the	intent,	 theprisoner is entitled to be acquitted."We  agree  that that is also the law in India.	 But  so  isthis.	We  quote  a few sentences  earlier  from  the	samelearned judgment:"No  doubt,  if	 the prosecution prove an  act	the  naturalconsequences  of  which	 would be a certain  result  and  noevidence  or  explanation is given, then a jury	 may,  on  aproper direction, find that the prisoner is guilty of  doingthe act with the intent alleged."That   is  exactly  the	 position  here.   No  evidence	  orexplanation is given about why the appellant thrust a  spearinto  the  abdomen of the deceased with such force  that  itpenetrated the bowels and three coils of the intestines cameout of the wound and that digested food oozed out from	cutsin three places.  In the absence of evidence, or  reasonableexplanation, that the prisoner did not intend to stab in thestomach with a degree of force sufficient to penetrate	thatfar  into  the	body,  or to indicate that  his	 act  was  aregrettable  accident  and that he  intended  otherwise,  itwould  be  perverse to conclude that he did  not  intend  toinflict	 the  injury  that  he did.   Once  that  intent  isestablished (and no other conclusion is reasonably  possiblein this case, and in any case it is a question of fact), therest  is  a  matter for	 objective  determination  from	 themedical and other evidence about the nature and	 seriousnessof the injury.The learned counsel for the appellant referred us to Emperorv. Sardarkhan Jaridkhan (1) where Beaman J. says that-" where death is caused by a single blow, it is always	muchmore  difficult	 to  be absolutely certain  what  degree  ofbodily injury the offender intended."With due respect to the learned Judge he has linked(1)  (1917) I. L. R. 41 Bom. 27,29.1503up  the intent required with the seriousness of the  injury,and  that,  as	we  have shown,	 is  not  what	the  sectionrequires.  The two matters are quite separate and  distinct,though	the evidence about them may sometimes  overlap.	 Thequestion  is not whether the prisoner intended to inflict  aserious	 injury or a trivial one but whether he intended  toinflict the injury that is proved to be present.  If be	 canshow   that  he	 did  not,  or	if  the	 totality   of	 thecircumstances  justify such an inference, then,	 of  course,the intent that the section requires is not proved.  But  ifthere  is  nothing beyond the injury and the fact  that	 theappellant inflicted it, the only possible inference is	thathe  intended  to  inflict  it.	 Whether  he  knew  of	 itsseriousness,  or intended serious consequences,	 is  neitherhere  nor there.  The question, so far as the  intention  isconcerned, is not whether he intended to kill, or to inflictan injury of a particular degree of seriousness, but whetherhe intended to inflict the injury in question; and once	 theexistence of the injury is proved the intention to cause  itwill  be presumed unless the evidence or  the  circumstanceswarrant	 an opposite conclusion.- But whether the  intentionis there or not is one of fact and not one of law.   Whetherthe  wound  is	serious or otherwise, and  if  serious,	 howserious, is a totally separate and distinct question and hasnothing	 to  do	 with  the  question  whether  the  prisonerintended to inflict the injury in question.It is true that in a given case the enquiry may be linked upwith the seriousness of the injury.  For example, if it	 canbe  proved, or if the totality of the circumstances  justifyan inference, that the prisoner only intended a	 superficialscratch and that by accident his victim stumbled and fell onthe sword or spear that was used, then of course the offenceis not murder.	But that is not because the prisoner did notintend	the  injury  that he intended to inflict  to  be  asserious as it turned out to be but because he did not intendto inflict the injury in question at all.  His intention  insuch a case would be to inflict a totally different  injury.The difference is not One of law but1504one of fact; and whether the conclusion should be one way orthe other is a matter of proof, where necessary, by  callingin  aid all reasonable inferences of fact in the absence  ofdirect testimony.  It is not one for guess-work and fancifulconjecture.       The appeal is dismissed.		    Appeal dismissed.