PETITIONER:MANAGEMENT OF VISHNU SUGAR MILLS LIMITED,HARKHUA, DISTRICT	Vs.RESPONDENT:THEIR WORKMEN REPRESENTED BY CHINI MILL MAZDOOR UNION,HARKHUDATE OF JUDGMENT:09/03/1960BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1960 AIR  812		  1960 SCR  (3) 214ACT:Industrial Dispute-Refercnce by State Government-Competence-Controlled  industry-"Appropriate Government,"	meaning	 of-Industries  (Development  and Regulation) Act, 1951  (65  of1951). -Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 Of 1947), S. 2 (a)(i).HEADNOTE:A dispute relating to a workman in the appellant sugar mill,situate	 in  Bihar, was raised by the Workers  Union  and  areference was made by the State Government.  Under s. 2	 (a)(1)  of	 the Industrial Disputes  Act,	1947,  "'AppropriateGovernment'  means  in relation to  any	 industrial  disputeconcerning any industry carried on by or under the authorityof  the	 Central  Government...... or  concerning  any	suchcontrolled  industry as may be specified in this  behalf  bythe  Central Government...... the Central Government ".	 Thequestion  was whether the State Government was competent  tomake the reference, as sugar was a controlled industry underthe Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951.Held, that in order that the appropriate government under s.2  (a) (1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, may be	 theCentral Government for a controlled industry it is necessarythat  such  controlled industry should be specified  by	 theCentral	  Government,	and  that  in  the  absence   of   anotification for the215purposes  of s. 2 (a) (1) of the Act, the  State  Governmentwas competent to make the reference.The  Bijoy  Colton Mills Ltd. v. Their Workmen	and  Another[1960] 2 S.C.R. 982, followed.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 402 of 1958.Appeal	by  special leave from the Award dated	January	 29,1957,  of  the	Industrial  Tribunal,  Bihar,  at  Patna  inReference No. 7 of 1956.Sukumar Ghose, for the appellant.M.   K.	  Ramamurthi,	R.   K.	 Garg,	 A.   N.   Nag	 andSuresh Aggarwal, for the respondents.S.   P. Varma, for the intervener (State of Bihar).1960.  March 9. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byWANCHOO,  J.-This is an appeal by special leave against	 theaward of the Industrial Tribunal, Patna.  The appellant is aSugar  Mill  in District Saran in the State of	Bihar.	 OneRamkrishna  Prasad  was appointed as clerk in this  mill  in1933.	Gradually, he worked his way up and was drawing	 Rs.140 per month in October 1952.	The mill created a new	postof store in-charge about that time as the work in the StoresDepartment  of the Mill had increased.	On October 4,  1952,Babulal	 Parekh	 was  appointed	 to  this  new	post  on   aconsolidated  salary  of Rs. 180 per menses.   A  letter  ofappointment  was issued to him on that date and he was	toldthat  he  would be on probation for one year.  He  was	alsoasked by another letter to take charge immediately.  He tookcharge	on October 7, 1952.  On November 28, 1952, an  orderwas  passed by the mill distributing the duties between	 thevarious clerks employed in the Stores Department and it	 wasstated	therein that all the staff of the Stores  Departmentwould work as subordinate to Babulal Parekh.  On December 2,1952,  another order was passed by which  Ramkrishna  Prasadwas  ordered to hand over the keys of the stores to  BabulalParekh.	 Thereafter Ramkrishna Prasad made a  representationagainst his being made subordinate to the stores  in-charge.This representation was rejected.  A dispute was then raisedby  the union and a reference was made by the Government  ofBihar on May 9, 1956, in which the216following three matters were referred to the tribunal:-1.Whether  the status of workman, Sri Ramkrishna  Prasad,Store-keeper, and the nature of the job performed by him hasbeen  changed  to his prejudice with the  appointment  of  aseparate store in charge;2.Whether  in  view of the  satisfactory  performance  ofduties	of store-keeper for the last 20 years by the  above-named workman, it was at all necessary to appoint a separatestore in-charge over him with higher emoluments and  whetherShri  Ramkrishna Prasad is entitled to be appointed  to	 thepost of store in-charge; and3.Whether  the	claim  of  the	above-named  workman  forpromotion  to  higher  grades has  been	 overlooked  by	 themanagement,  and if so, what relief the workman is  entitledto.When  the  matter  came up before  the	tribunal,  the	maincontention on behalf of the mill was that it was exclusivelythe management function to decide its labour strength,	bothqualitatively  and  quantitatively,  and  that	so  far	  asRamkrishna  Prasad was concerned his position had  not	beenprejudicially affected by the creation of the new post of  astore  in-charge.  The workmen on the other  hand  contendedthat  Babulal  Parekh was first appointed as  a	 mere  clerkunder  Ramkrishna  Prasad to begin with and it was  only  onNovember  28,  1952, that he was promoted over the  head  ofRamkrishna  Prasad  as a store in-charge,  thus	 supersedingRamkrishna   Prasad.	This  stand  of	 the   workmen	 wascontroverted  by  the  mill and its case  was  that  BabulalParekh	was from the very beginning appointed as  store	 in-charge.The tribunal came to the conclusion after a consideration ofthe evidence produced that Babulal was first appointed as anordinary clerk in the Stores Department and was subsequentlymade a store incharge.	It held that this caused  reasonableheart  burning	to  Ramkrishna	Prasad.	  The  tribunal	 wasconscious  of the principle that promotion to a higher	postwas the exclusive function of the management and should	 notordinarily be interfered with.	But217in spite of that it was of the view that this was a fit casefor interference; but on other considerations which were notspecified in the order by the tribunal it held that it wouldnot  interfere	with the arrangement made by  the  mill;  itinstead	 granted an increment of Rs. 30 per month  from	 thedate  of its order to Ramkrishna Prasad to meet the ends  ofjustice.  It is this order which is being challenged  beforeus.Two  points  have  been urged before us	 on  behalf  of	 theappellant.   In	 the  first  place  it	is  urged  that	 thereference was incompetent as sugar was a controlled industryand  only  the	Central	 Government  could  have  made	 thereference  and	not the State Government.  Secondly,  it  isurged  that the order of the tribunal granting an  incrementof  Rs.	 30  per month to  Ramkrishna  Prasad  was  patentlyperverse  and  that  there was no change in  the  status  oremoluments  of Ramkrishna Prasad by the creation of the	 newpost and the employment of Babulal Parekh on it.So far as the question of the competence of the reference isconcerned, we are of opinion that there is no force in it, Asimilar	 question was raised before this Court in The  BijoyCotton	Mills Ltd. v. Their Workmen and Another (1)  and  itwas  held  there  on  the language  of	s.  2(a)(1)  of	 theIndustrial  Disputes Act, 1947, that before  that  provisioncould  apply  to  a  controlled industry  there	 must  be  anotification  by the Central Government for the purposes  ofs. 2(a)(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act.  Section  2(a)(1)is in these terms-"  I  Appropriate  Government'	means  in  relation  to	 anyindustrial dispute concerning any industry carried on by  orunder  the  authority  of the Central  Government  or  by  arailway	 company or concerning any such controlled  industryas maybe specified in this behalf by the Central Government,or in relation to an industrial dispute concerning a bankingor  an insurance company, a mine, an oil-field or  a,  majorport, the Central Government.  "The argument is that as sugar is a controlled industry underthe Schedule to the Industries (Development and	 Regulation)Act, No. 65 of 1951, the appropriate(1)  [1960] 2 S.C.R- 982,28218Government for the purposes of s. 2(a)(1) with reference  tothe  sugar Industry is the Central Government.	Reliance  isplaced	on  the	 words	"  concerning  any  such  controlledindustry  as may be specified in this behalf by the  CentralGovernment  "  appearing in s. 2 (a)(1).  It  is  true	thatsugar	is  a  controlled  industry  under  the	  Industries(Development  and  Regulation) Act, 1951, but  that  in	 ouropinion	 does  not conclude the matter.	 In order  that	 theappropriate  government under s. 2(a)(1) may be the  CentralGovernment  for a controlled industry, it is necessary	thatsuch controlled industry should be specified by the  CentralGovernment  for	 the purposes of s. 2(a)(1).   This  in	 ouropinion	 is obvious from the words " controlled industry  asmay be specified in this behalf by the Central Government  "appearing in s. 2(a)(1).  It is not enough that an  industryshould be a controlled industry to attract this provision ofs.  2(a)(1)  ;	it is further necessary that  it  should  bespecified  in  this behalf, namely for the  purposes  of  s.2(a)(1), as a controlled industry by the Central Government,before	the  Central Government can become  the	 appropriategovernment within the meaning of s. 2(a)(1).  We may in thisconnection  refer to Firebricks and Potteries Ltd., etc.  v.Firebricks and Potteries Ltd.  Workers Union Ltd. (1)  wherethe same view has been taken.  We are of opinion that is thecorrect	 meaning of these words appearing in s. 2(a)(1),  asalready	 held  in  The Bijoy Cotton Mills  Ltd.	 (2)  .	 Theobjection  that	 the reference was not	competent  thereforefails.We next come to the contention raised on behalf of the	millthat there was in fact no prejudice whatsoever so far as thestatus and emoluments of Ramkrishna Prasad were concerned bythe creation of the new post and the appointment of  BabulalParekh on it, and that the tribunal was not justified in anycase  in  granting  an increment of Rs.	 30  per  menses  toRamkrishna Prasad.  The main consideration which  influencedthe  tribunal in passing the order which it did was that  inthe view of the tribunal Ramkrishna Prasad was superseded byBabulal Parekh who was first appointed as a clerk under him.This view of(1) I.L.R. [1955] MYS. 546.  (2) [1960] 2 S.C.R. 982.219the  tribunal  in our opinion is  patently  erroneous.	 Theappointment order dated October 4, 1952, clearly shows	thatBabulal	 Parekh was appointed as store inches from the	verybeginning  at Rs. 180 per month.  The tribunal	referred  tocertain	 entries  in the attendance register  to  hold	thatBabulal	 Parekh worked as clerk to begin with.	 It  appearsfrom  the  attendance register for the	months	of  October,November and December that Babulal Parekh was marked presentfrom October 7 to November 9. Thereafter from November 11 tothe end of December he signed the attendance register.	 Thestatement  of Cbaudhari, Labour Welfare Officer of the	millwas that the practice in the mill was that officers used  tobe  marked present in the attendance register  while  clerksused to sign it themselves.  The tribunal has concluded fromthe  fact  that	 Babulal.  Parekh  signed  the	register  inNovember that he must have been a clerk to begin with.	 Thetribunal, however, completely overlooked that from October 7to November 9, Babulal Parekh was marked present which wouldshow that he was not a clerk.  The tribunal also  overlookedthat  even  from  November 28 to the end  of  December	whenBabulal	 Parekh	 admittedly was not a clerk  but  store	 in-charge	he still signed the register, though he should	havebeen  marked present.  Chaudhari was unable to	explain	 howthis happened, but he was hardly the person to explain this.It is, however, clear from this confusion that no importancecan be attached to whether Babulal Parekh was marked presentin  the	 register  or  signed  it.   The  real	thing  whichdetermined the status of Babulal Parekh was the	 appointmentorder dated October 4, 1952, which the tribunal has acceptedas  correct.  A question was certainly put to  Chaudhari  atthe  end of his cross-examination that he  had	manufacturedthe  statements put in by him only the night before  but  hedenied it.  We cannot accept the suggestion on behalf of therespondents  that the appointment order was ante-dated,	 forno  such suggestion was made to Chaudhari and  the  tribunalitself	does  not find so.  It is clear therefore  that	 thefinding of the tribunal that Babulal Parekh was appointed as220clerk  under  Ramkrishna Prasad to begin  with	is  patentlyperverse  and it must be held that Babulal Parekh  was	fromthe  very beginning working as store in-charge.	 Now  in  sofar  as	 Ramkrishna  Prasad  was  concerned  his  work	 andemoluments  remained  the  same	 after	the  appointment  ofBabulal Parekh.	 If a higher post was created in the  StoresDepartment  because  of	 the increase  in  work,  RamkrishnaPrasad could not claim promotion to it merely because he wasworking	 as  a store-keeper before.  There is of  course  noquestion of supersession in this case and therefore there isno  reasonable cause for any heart burning.  As the  learnedtribunal  itself points out, " promotion to higher post	 wasthe exclusive function of the management " and if a new postis  created  and a new man appointed, as in  this  case,  itcannot	be said that Ramkrishna Prasad's status was  in	 anyway  prejudicially  affected.  It is  also  remarkable	thatafter  saying  all  that it could in  favour  of  RamkrishnaPrasad	the tribunal did not interfere with the	 arrangementmade by the mill for reasons which were not specified by  itin  the order.	As such there was no reason for granting  anincrement  of  Rs. 30 per mensem to Ramkrishna	Prasad,	 foreven  the workmen did not claim that he was entitled to	 anycompensation in the shape of an increment in his pay becauseof  the	 appointment  of Babulal Parekh. The  order  of	 thetribunal therefore is patently unsupportable and must be setaside.	 We  therefore allow the appeal and  set  aside	 theorder  of  the tribunal and hold that no relief	 is  due  toRamkrishna Prasad.  In the circumstances we pass no order asto costs.Appeal allowed.221