PETITIONER:NARAYAN BHAGWANTRAO GOSAVIBALAJIWALE	Vs.RESPONDENT:GOPAL VINAYAK GOSAVI AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:22/09/1959BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.CITATION: 1960 AIR  100		  1960 SCR  (1) 773 CITATOR INFO : R	    1964 SC 136	 (11) R	    1965 SC 364	 (238) R	    1966 SC1457	 (17) R	    1970 SC2025	 (16) R	    1976 SC 871	 (33,34) R	    1981 SC 798	 (10) RF	    1992 SC1110	 (20,29)ACT:Charitable and Religious Trust-Test-Inference drawn frommeaning	 of-Admission, evidentiary value of -Frame of  suit-Deity, if a necessary party-Charitable and Religious  TrustsAct, 1920 (14 of 1920), s. 5(3).HEADNOTE:The  question for determination in this appeal, arising	 outof  a  suit  filed by the appellant under  s.  5(3)  of	 theCharitable and Religious Trusts, Act, 1920, was whether	 theancient	 temple	 of Shri Balaji Venkatesh at Nasik  and	 itsSansthan constituted a charitable and religious trust withinthe  meaning  of  the  Act.  The  deity	 was  Swayambhu	 andrevealed  itself in a dream to one Ganapati Maharaj who,  atits behest, brought the deity from the river Tambraparni andinstalled  it  in his house.  Ganapati's  son  Timmaya,	 whoremoved	 the deity to Nasik, took the idol to the courts  ofRulers	and  acquired the properties in suit  consisting  oflands and cash.	 Timmaya's eldest son obtained an  extensiveplot  of land as a gift from the Peshwa and thereon built  avast  temple with a Sabha Mandap which could accommodate  noless  than 600 persons and installed the deity in the  firstfloor  with a staircase leading straight to it.	  The  Hindupublic has been worshipping at the temple for more than	 200years  and there was no evidence to show that they had	everbeen  excluded from it and any gift had ever  been  refused.The ceremonies performed in the temple were appropriate to apublic	deity.	 It was admitted by the sons of	 Timmaya  inTahanama,  executed by them in 1774, that the Inam  villageswere  granted  for the worship of the deity and	 the  templebelonged  to the Sansthan, none of them having any share  init.   In the Tharav Yadi of 1800, the maintenance  allowanceprovided by the said Tahanama for the different branches  ofthe family was described as 'Vetan'.  The Inam Commissioner,functioning under Act 11 of 1852, recorded the Inam villagesas  permanently held Debasthan inams at the instance of	 thethen  Sthanic and on the basis of original sanads  filed  byhim,   reversing   the	decision  of  the   Assistant	InamCommissioner who had recorded them as personal inams.  Thosesanads	were not filed in the suit.  In 1931  the  appellantpublished  a history of the Sansthan wherein it was  clearlystated	that  the  Sansthan  was not  a	 private  or  familyproperty  but was the property of the deity, the members  ofthe  family  being merely the managers.	 The deity  was	 notmade  a	 party to the suit although representatives  of	 theHindu public were joined as98774parties	 under	s. 1, r. 8 of the Code of  Civil  Procedure.The  High Court, while it concurred with the trial judge  inholding	 that  the  deity was a public deity  and  that	 itsSansthan   constituted	   a  public  trust,  was,   however,inclined  to  hold  that some of  the  properties  might  bepersonal  properties of the appellant but refused  to  grantany such declaration on the ground that no effective  decreecould  be  passed against the deity in its absence,  It	 wascontended on behalf of the appellant in this court that	 thecourts below had misconstrued the document and were wrong indrawing the inferences they did and that the burden of proofhad  been  wrongly  placed  on the  appellant  to  prove  bypositive evidence that the deity was a family deity and	 theproperties his private properties.Held,  that  the courts below were right in  coming  to	 theconclusion they reached, and the appeal must fail.A  mistaken  inference	drawn from documents is	 no  less  afinding	 of  fact,  if there is no  misconstruction  of	 thedocuments  and no misconstruction of documents	having	beenproved, the appellant could not succeed.An admission is the best evidence that an opposing party canrely  upon,  and, although it is not  conclusive,  is  oftendecisive  of  the  matter  unless  it  can  be	successfullywithdrawn or proved to be     erroneous.The  expression " burden of proof " means one of two  things(1)  that  a party has to prove an allegation before  it  isentitled to a judgment in its favour, or (2) that the one orthe  other  of the two contending parties has  to  introduceevidence  on  a contested issue.  The question	of  onus  ismaterial  only where the party on which it is  placed  wouldeventually  lose if it failed to discharge the same.   Whereissues	are,  however,	joined, evidence  is  led  and	suchevidence  can be weighed in order to determine	the  issues,the question of burden becomes academic.In  the present case, if the onus lay on any party,  it	 wasclearly	 on the appellant to prove by cogent  evidence	thatthe admissions made by his predecessors-in-title and by	 himwere either erroneous or unavailable and this he had  failedto  do.	 The earlier sanads, admittedly in  his	 possession,not having been produced and those produced not being in anyway  inconsistent  with the said admissions or	the  revenuerecords,  no  question of any misconstruction  of  documentscould arise.Babu  Bhagwan Din v. Gir Nar Saroon, (1939) L.R. 67 I.A.  1,held inapplicable.Srinivasa Chariar v. Evalappa Mudaliar, (1922) L.R. 49 I.A.237, applied.The entries made in the Inam Register prepared under Act  11of  1852,  were entitled to great weight and  although	theycould  not  displace  actual and authentic  evidence  in  anindividual  case,  it was well-settled that, in	 absence  ofsuch evidence, they must prevail,775Arunachalam  Chetty  v.	 Venkatachalapathi  Guru   Swamigal,(1919) L.R. 46 I.A. 204, referred to.Held, further, that the vastness of the temple, the mode  ofits  construction, the long user by the public as of  right,grant of land and cash by the Rulers, taken along with otherrelevant factors were consistent only with the public natureof the endowment.Narayanan  v. Hindu Religious Endowments Board, A.I.R.	1938Mad. 209, relied on.The  absence  of a dome or Kalas on the temple	was  not  byitself a decisive factor as to its public character, nor wasconsecration imperative of a deity that was Swayambhu.Nor  is	 the temporary movement of the idol  from  place  toplace inconsistent with its public character.Ram Soondur Thakoor v. Taruk Chunder Turkoruttum, (1873)  19Weekly	Reporter  28; Hari Raghunath  v.  Apantii  Bhikajii,(1920)	I.L.R.	44  Bom.  466;	Prematha  Nath	Mullick	  v.Pradyumna  Kumar  Mullick,  (1925)  L.R.  52  I.A.  245	 andVenkatachala v. Sambasiva, A.I.R. (1927) Mad. 465; 52 M.L.J.288, considered.The  defect in the frame of such a suit resulting  from	 theomission  of the deity as a party to it, cannot be  remediedby  the	 subsequent addition of the representatives  of	 theHindu Public as parties to it, and no effective decree couldbe passed against the deity in such a suit.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 261 of 1955.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated April 22, 1949, ofthe  Bombay  High  Court, in Appeal No. 403  of	 1945,	fromOriginal Decree arising out of the judgment and decree datedAugust 14, 1945, of the Civil Judge Senior Division,  Nasik,in Special Civil Suit No. 5 of 1943.Purshottam Tricumdas, Mrs. E. Udayaratnam and S.  S. Shukla,for the appellant.R.   Ganapathy	Iyer,  K.  L. Hathi and R.  H.	Dhebar,	 forrespondent No. 1.W.   S. Barlinge, Shankar- Anand and A. G. Ratnaparkhi,	 forrespondents Nos. 6 and 7.1959.	September  22.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	.wasdelivered byHIDAYATULLAH  J.-This appeal with a certificate -Hi, of	 theHigh Court of Judicature, Bombay, has been filed against thejudgment and decree of that Court776dated  April  22,  1949, in First Appeal No.  403  of  1945,confirming  the	 judgment  and decree of  the  Civil  Judge,Senior	Division,  Nasik,  in Special Suit No.	5  of  1943,decided	 on August 14, 1945.  The High Court made  a  slightmodification in the matter of costs, to which we shall referlater.The plaintiff, who is the appellant here, is the  descendantof  one	 Ganpati  Maharaj,  who was  a	devotee	 of  "	ShriVenkatesh Balaji ". Ganpati Maharaj died in 1701 at the ripeage  of 98.  When Ganpati Maharaj was 72 years old,  it	 wasvouchsafed  to	him in a dream that an	image  of  VenkateshBalaji	would  be  found  by him  in  river  Tambraparni  inTirunelveli District.  He found the image, brought it to hishouse  in  Junnar (Poona District) and	installed  it.	 Theworship of Shri Venkatesh Balaji was carried on by him,	 andwhen he died, he left behind him three sons and a  daughter.His  eldest son, Timmayya, at the time of his death  was  12years  old.   Timmayya succeeded Ganpati Maharaj  and  livedtill  1768, when he died at the ripe age of 79.	 During	 hislifetime,  Timmayya obtained several properties as  presentsand gifts.  The present suit concerns those properties whichare described in the schedules attached to the plaint.	The,appellant is the direct descendant of Ganpati in the  eldestmale  line, and respondents 1 to 4 are the descendants	fromGanpati's daughter, Nagubai.On  April  23,	1942, the first	 four  respondents  made  anapplication  to	 the  District	Court tinder  s.  3  of	 theCharitable and Religious Trusts Act, 1920 (No. 14 of  1920),hereinafter  called the Act, against the appellant  and	 twoothers asking that the appellant be directed to furnish fullparticulars of the properties and their application and	 foraccounts of the income as also of the properties during	 thethree  preceding years.	 The appellant in reply denied	thatthere was a trust, much less a public trust, and claimed theidol and the properties as private.  He understook to  bringa  suit under s. 5(3) of the Act, and the suit out of  whichthe present appeal arises, was filed on March 21, 1943.	  Heclaimed	 in  the  suit three  declarations,  which  were  asfollows :777(1)  It may be declared that 'Shri Vyankatesh Balaji  Deity'and 'Shri Vyankatesh Balaji Sansthan' are not legal trust asalleged by the Defendants and their nature also is not	suchas alleged by the Defendants.(2)  If	 the court holds that a trust in the matter of	ShriVyankatesh   Balaji  Deity'  and  'Shri	 Vyankatesh   BalajiSansthan'  exists,  then it may be declared  that  the	saidtrust  is not a public one, that the same has not come	intoexistence for the religious and charitable purposes and thatthe  Religious	and Charitable Trusts Act (sic.)(No.  14  of1920) is not applicable to the same.(3)It may be declared that the Defendants for themselves  oras the representatives of the entire Hindu Community have noright  and  authority whatever over 'Sri  Vyankatesh  BalajiDevta' and Shri Vyankatesh Balaji Sansthan' and that they orthe  entire  Hindu  Community has  no  right  and  authoritywhatever in any capacity whatever to interfere in the matterof Devta' (deity) and ' Sansthan ' or to ask for the Yadi  '(list)	of  the	 properties or accounts in  respect  of	 theincome	thereof and to ask for reliefs mentioned  in  prayerclauses of the Miscellaneous Application No. 19 of 1942."The trial Judge framed eight issues.  The first two involvedthe   declarations  sought.   Three  others  concerned	 theposition  of  defendants  1  to 4, 6 and  7  in	 respect  ofmaintenance,  share  in the right of customary	worship	 andmanagement.  One issue raised the question whether the	suitwas  had because the deity was not joined and the  remainingtwo were consequential.The   trial  Judge  decided  all  the  issues  against	 theappellant.   He held that the suit properties were  not	 thepersonal  or private properties of the appellant,  that	 theplaintiff  was estopped from making such a claim,  that	 thedeity itself was not a family or private deity, and that thedeity Shri Venkatesh Balaji was the owner of the properties,and that there was a public, religious and charitable  trustin  respect  of	 them.	 It  was,  however,  held  that	 theappellant  was entitled as the hereditary shebait to  managethem.778The  trial  Judge also gave a finding that  the	 first	fourdefendants were entitled to customary worship and emolumentsas  might  be fixed by the Pujadhikaris descended  from	 theeldest	branch	of  Bapaji Buva and  could  be	removed	 forfailure	 to  perform  the  duties  assigned  to	 them.	 Theapplication under s. 3 of the Act was held to be  competent,and  the suit was also held to be bad in the absence of	 thedeity.	 In the result, the trial Judge dismissed the  suit,awarding  two  sets of costs to the defendants.	 It  may  bepointed	 out that after the suit was filed, a public  noticeunder  s. 1, R. 8 of the Code of Civil Procedure was  issuedand  other  defendants were joined, representing  the  HinduCommunity.   During the early stages of the suit, the  firstfour  defendants raised the question whether the  deity	 wasnot  a necessary party to such a suit, and desired that	 thedeity  should  be  joined,  represented	 by  an	 independentguardian-ad-litem.   This  application was  opposed  by	 theappellant, who stated that inasmuch as his case was that thedeity and the properties were his personal properties, therewas no need to join the deity because of an averment by	 thedefendants  that  the  temple  was  a  public  one  and	 theproperties  were  public religious  endowments.	  The  trialJudge  after  expressing some surprise	that  the  plaintiffshould have taken this stand, acceded to his contention	 anddid not join the deity as a party.  He, however, warned	 theappellant  by his order that in case the deity was found  tobe  a necessary party, the suit might have to  be  dismissedfor that reason alone.Against the decree dismissing the suit, an appeal was  takento,  the  High Court of Bombay.	 The learned Judges  of	 theHigh  Court (Rajadhyaksha and Chainani, JJ.), dismissed	 theappeal	but modified the order about costs,  directing	thatonly one set of costs be paid to the defendants in the suit.The  learned  Judges  traced  the  history  of	the  variousproperties and how they were acquired, and concluded that inrespect	 of some of the properties there was no	 doubt	thatthey formed religious endowments of a public nature, but  inrespect	 of others, though they were inclined to  hold	thatthey were personal properties,779they  held  that no declaration could be  given,  since	 thedeity  was not a party to the proceedings.   They,  however,granted	 a  certificate	 of fitness under Art.	133  of	 theConstitution, read with ss. 109 and 110 of the Code of CivilProcedure,  and	 the  present appeal has  been	filed  as  aresult.Before	dealing with the appeal proper, it is  necessary  torefer to certain landmarks in the history of Shri  VenkateshBalaji	and  this family.  As we have  stated  earlier,	 thedeity  was placed in his house by Ganpati Maharaj at  Junnarin  Poona  District.  Ganpati Maharaj did  not	acquire	 anyproperty,  but	in the lifetime of his son,  the  deity	 wasmoved from Junnar to Nasik.  A tradition in the family	saysthat  this  was the result of a dream by Timmayya,  who	 waswarned	that  Junnar would be burnt to ashes and  the  deitymust be removed.  Timmayya soon acquainted the people of thelocality  with the miraculous powers of the deity,  and	 notcontent with this alone, he took the deity to the Courts  ofthe  various Rulers and also from place to  place  acquiringthe properties in dispute, cash allowances and gifts.  AfterTimmayya  died his eldest son, Bapaji Buva, obtained a	plotof  land  in  gift  from the Peshwa near  the  bank  of	 theGodavari river at Nasik and built a temple on it.  The deitywas  installed	in that temple, and has	 continued  in	thatabode  ever  since.  Bapaji Buva had raised a loan  for	 theconstruction of the temple, and a substantial portion of  itwas paid off by the Peshwa and other Rulers like Holkar	 andScindia.  In Bapaji's Buva's time, a large Sabha Mandap	 wasbuilt in the premises of the temple to accomodate about	 600persons at the time of darshan and worship of the deity.In  1774 family disputes arose and a Tahanama (Ex. 121)	 wasexecuted, whereby the right of management was vested in	 theeldest	male member of the senior branch of the family,	 andprovision  was	made for the maintenance of that  branch  aswell  as  the  junior  branches.   Again  in  1800,  furtherdisputes  took	place in the family and a Tharav  Yadi	(Ex.122)  was drawn up.  By that agreement, instead of the	cashallowances for the maintenance of the branches certain780villages  were	assigned  to  them.   Next  came  the	InamCommission  under  the Bombay Rent-free	 Estates  Act,	1852(Bom.  11 of 1852), by which in accordance with	 the  policylaid  down by Lord Bentick, all jagirdars and inamdars	wererequired  to  prove  the  sources of  their  title  and	 theconditions  on	which the jagirs or inams  were	 held.	 TheAssistant  Inam	 Commissioner  recorded	 the  grant  of	 thevillages  under	 R.  3 of Sch.	B to that  Act	as  personalinams.	 Damodar  Maharaj who was then	the  Pujadhikari  orSansthanik appealed to the Inam Commissioner, and  contendedthat  the villages were not held as personal inams but	wereDevasthan  inams  and could only be recorded under R.  7  ofSch.   B.  The	difference between the two  Rules  was	thatwhereas	 personal  inams could be held only so long  as	 thefamily	survived, Devasthan inams were held permanently	 andwere to be recorded as such.  The Inam Commissioner acceptedthis  contention, and caused the entries to be changed	frompersonal  inams	 to  Devasthan	inams  in  respect  of	 thevillages.   Damodar Maharaj died in 1885, and was  succeededby  Krishnarao Maharaj, who died in 1893, whose eldest	son,Bhagwantrao  Maharaj died in 1900 and was succeeded  by	 theappellant, during whose minority the property was managed bya  guardian appointed by Court.	 The appellant became  majorin  1921, and took over the management of these	 properties.In  1929, the appellant caused a history of the deity to  bewritten	 and  it was published by him.	A reference  to	 allthese documents will be necessary hereafter to consider	 theargument whether there was a religious endowment of a publicnature, or whether the properties in dispute were  privatelyowned.As pointed out already, the two Courts below have  concurredin  holding  that the deity was not a mere family  deity  inwhich  the public had no interest, and that  the  propertiesgiven  to the deity constituted a religious  and  charitableendowment of a public nature.  Ordinarily, such a finding isa  finding  of fact, not open to further  scrutiny  by	thisCourt, but the appellant contended that the legal  inferencedrawn from the proved facts in the case was erroneous and  apoint of law781therefore arose.  A mistaken inference from documents is  noless  a finding of fact, if there is no	 misconstruction  ofthe  documents, and this principle should be applied to	 thediscussion of the documentary evidence in this case, becauseif  there  was	no  misconstruction  of	 the  documents,-theconcurrent findings would be not of law but of fact and	 theerror, if any, equally of fact.Both the Courts below have analysed at length the  documentswhich  number  several hundreds, and have pointed  out	thatthere  was nothing inconsistent in them with the  contentionof the respondents that there was a religious and charitableendowment  of  a public character in favour  of	 the  deity.Before	us,  the attempt of the appellant was to  show	thatthis  conclusion  was  not correct and	that  the  documentspointed	 to  grants in favour of individuals  for  the	timebeing  managing the affairs of a family deity.	In  additionto  the examination of the documents, the two  Courts  belowrelied strongly against the appellant on the admissions madeby  his	 predecessors-in-title from 1774  onwards.   Learnedcounsel for the appellant contended that the documents	weremisconstrued  and  thus, the inference from  them  in  whichthese  so-called admissions were contained, was exactly	 theopposite  of what the Courts have deduced.  In this  appeal,therefore,  all	 that  is necessary is to  see	whether	 theinferences   are  vitiated  by	a  misconstruction  of	 thedocuments as such.The  appellant contended that this was a special suit  unders.  5(3) of -the Charitable and Religious Trusts Act,  1920,and  that the burden lay upon the respondents to prove	thatthere  was  a  religious and charitable trust  of  a  publiccharacter in favour of the deity.  He contended that the twoCourts below had placed the burden of proof upon him to showby positive evidence that the deity was a family deity,	 andthat the properties were his private properties.   Accordingto  him the defendants ought to have proved their case,	 andif  they failed to prove affirmatively that case,  then	 thesuit  ought  to	 have  been  decreed  in  his  favour.	 Theexpression  "burden  of proof" really  means  two  differentthings.	 It means sometimes that a party is99782required to prove an allegation before judgment can be givenin  its favour; it also means that on a contested issue	 oneof  the	 two contending parties has to	introduce  evidence.Whichever way one looks, the question is really academic  inthe  present  case,, because both  parties  have  introducedtheir  evidence on the question of the nature of  the  deityand  the properties and have sought to establish  their	 ownpart of the case.  The two Courts below have not decided thecase on the abstract question of burden of proof ; nor couldthe  suit be decided in such a way.  The burden of proof  isof  importance only where by reason of not  discharging	 theburden which was put upon it, a party must eventually  fail.Where,	however,  parties  have joined issue  and  have	 ledevidence  and  the conflicting evidence can  be	 weighed  todetermine  which way the issue can be decided, the  abstractquestion of burden of proof becomes academic.In the present case, the burden of proof need not detain  usfor  another reason.  It has been proved that the  appellantand,  his  predecessors in the title which  he	claims,	 hadadmitted  on numerous occasions that the public had a  rightto  worship the deity, and that the properties were held  asDevasthan inams.  To the same effect are the records of	 therevenue authorities, where these grants have been  describedas Devasthan, except in a few cases, to which reference willbe  made subsequently.	In view of all these admissions	 andthe  revenue records, it was necessary for the appellant  toprove  that the admissions were erroneous, and did not	bindhim.   An  admission is the best evidence that	an  opposingparty can rely upon, and though not conclusive, is  decisive'of  the  matter, unless successfully  withdrawn  or  provederroneous.   We shall now examine these admissions in  briefand  the extent to which they went and the number  of  timesthey were repeated.The  earliest  admission that the property belonged  to	 theDevasthan  and that there was no private ownership is to  befound  in  the Tahanama (Ex. 121) of the  year	1774.	ThisTahanama was entered into by the sons of Timmayya Maharaj inthe presence of783Panchas long before the present dispute arose. -It is statedthere  that  " Shrimant Pant Pradhan and  other	 Sardars  of(both)	Nizam  and  Deccan (States)  have  granted  in	Inamvillages  for  the  purposes  of  Seva	(worship)  of	Shri(deity)."  It *as again stated that the Shri's temple  whichwas  newly built on the banks of the river Ganga  (Godavari)belonged to Shri's Sansthan and nobody had a share  therein.By the Tahanama, the three brothers set apart a certain	 sumfor the Seva (worship) of the deity in accordance with theirpractice  which	 sum  was not to  be  diminished  under	 anycircumstance.	They, however, took a small portion  of	 theincome	as their own Nemnuk (maintenance), which Nemnuk	 wasto  be reduced if the income was not sufficient to meet	 theexpenses of Shri (deity).Learned	 counsel for the appellant stated that the  Tahanamawas misconstrued by the two Courts below.  He contended thatthis  was a private temple, and if anything could  be  speltout  from  this	 document, it was that	the  three  brothersconstituted  a	private	 trust	in  favour  of	the   deity.According  to  him, the brothers were  dividing	 the  incomewhich was theirs into two parts, namely, (1) for the Seva ofthe  deity  and (2) for their maintenance.   This,  in,	 ouropinion,  is a strained reading of the document as a  whole.This deity was " Swayambhu " and not a consecrated idol.  Ifnone  of the members of the family had any interest  in	 theShri's	temple	or  any shares in  the	properties  thereof,obviously  the properties were not private  properties,	 northe idol a family idol.	 The document clearly shows that thedeity  was  regarded as the owner and the  family  were	 itsservants.   This is made clear by the  subsequent  document,which is the Tharav Yadi of 1800; the Nemnuk allowance whichthe  members of the family had taken out of the	 income	 wasdescribed  as Vetan (remuneration) for doing service to	 thedeity  and Sansar Begmi " for themselves.  The	use  of	 theword  Vetan  "	does  not indicate  ownership,	but  on	 thecontrary,  paid service.  Even as far back as 1774 to  1800,the  predecessors of the appellant considered themselves  asthe servants of the deity, and all that they did was to makea stable arrangement for the784application of the funds, so that the deity could enjoy	 itsown property and the servants were regularly paid.When  the  Inam Commission was established to  enquire	intothe jagirs and inams which had passed into the territory  ofthe East India Company, Act No.	 1 of 1852 was passed.	 TheInam  Commission purported to be established under that	 Actand  for  purposes of enquiry as laid down under  that	Act.The  Assistant Inam Commissioner at that time held that	 theinam was a personal one, and ordered that it be recorded  assuch.  This was in the years 1857 to 1859.  Damodar at	thattime went up in appeal to the Inam Commissioner, complainingagainst	 the  record of the inams as personal,	and  claimedthat they should be recorded as Devasthan inams.  His appealis  Ex.	 D-643 dated March 5, 1858.  He stated therein	thatthe  mokass  Amal  and the jagir  and  Sardeshmukhi  in	 thevillages  were granted " for the expenditure on	 account  ofthe Shri ". He relied on the Sanads, in which it was  statedthat  the  Amals (revenue shares) were for  the	 purpose  ofworship	 and  Naivedya (food offering) to the  Devasthan  ofShri  Venkatesh.   He referred to the earlier  documents  towhich  we have referred, and claimed that the order  of	 theAssistant Inam Commisioner was erroneous, because the  inamsmust be recorded in the name of the deity under R. 7 of Sch.B  to the Act of 1852 and not under R. 3, as was ordered  bythe  Assistant Inam Commissioner.  We have  already  pointedout  the different effect of the two Rules, and proviso	 (6)to  R.	7  stated that no personal inam	 could	be  recordedpermanently  under  R. 7. The effect of this appeal  was  toclaim on behalf of the deity a permanent recognition of	 itsrights to the inam properties without any share on behalf ofthe family, apart from remuneration such as the Pujadhikarismight  from  time  to time settle, in  accordance  With	 theTahanama and the Tharav Yadi of the earlier times.  The InamCommissioner acceded to this contention; and after examiningall  the Sanads that had been produced in the case,  orderedthat," the order issued by Meherban, Assistant Inam	Commissionerbe annulled and under Section 7 (sic.)785Supplement No. 2 of Act 11 of 1852 the remaining portion  ofthis  village  . ... to remain as perpetual  Inam  with	 theDevasthan  of  Shri  Vyankatesh ... and	 the  management  doremain continued from generation to generation of the linealdescendants  with the male descendants of Timaya Gosavi	 bin(i.e.  son  of) Ganesh Gosavi and Apatia bin (i.e.  son	 of)Konher Gosavi."The  effect  of	 all these documents therefore	was  to	 getrecognition  in	 invitum of the right of the  deity  as	 theowner.	It also indicated that in the family of Bapaji	Buvathere  were the hereditary Pujadhikaris or Shebaits  of	 thedeity who were not entitled to anything more than reasonableremuneration for their services of the deity.In  the year 1907 when the plaintiff was still a minor,	 hismother	made  a deposition as a witness.   She	stated	thatthere were Annachatra and Sadavarat Kulkarni Inams and otherInams, but that they all belonged to the Sansthan, and	thatthere was " no private (or personal) property at all".	Eventhe gardens were described by her as belonging to the  deityand not to any individual.  The guardian also took the	samestand  throughout  the	minority  of  the  plaintiff.	Evenearlier,  in  1899  the	 father and  uncle  of	the  presentappellant  stated  that the village, Savergaon, one  of	 theitems  of  the properties of the Devasthan, was not  in	 theprivate	 ownership  of any person.  It was  stated  on	thisoccasion as follows:"Except this Shri Vyankatesh deity no one else has anyright,interest  or  ownership with regard to the village  and	 theSansthan.   We	both  are  the	managers  of  the  aforesaidSansthan  and we have been looking after all the affairs  ofthe  Sansthan and in that connection we are carrying on	 themanagement of the aforesaid village."The  statement was made in Suit No. 515 of 1898.  Again,  inEx.  700,  the	written statement by  the  guardian  of	 theplaintiff,  in Civil Suit No. 295 of 1920, it was stated  aslate as November 5, 1920, as follows:"It  is	 denied	 that  Damodar	Timmayya  or  any  other   "particular individual owned the Balaji786Sansthan at any time in his individual capacity.  The templeof  balaji belongs to the Sansthan and several villages	 aregranted	 to  Balaji Sansthan purely for temple	purposes  bySanads granted by the British Government and the Defendant'sfamily is appointed only the vahiwatdar."The  said  Damodar Timaya had no separate  property  of	 hisown."To  the same effect is the application made by Ramabai,	 themother of the present appellant, in Ex. 702.These later documents may not bind the appellant, who was  aminor  at  the time, but as late as December  1,  1927,	 theappellant   himself   stated  that   village   in   question(Savergaon)  was a Devasthan inam, and was alienated to	 thedeity, Shri Venkatesh, who was the owner.  He also  referredto the family settlement of 1801, and stated that the  othervillages  were	also  similarly	 given	to  the	 deity.	  Heobserved that in the case of Devasthan inam the idol was thegrantee and the real owner, and since the property Had to bemanaged	 by  a human beinG, the so-called  manager  thereformanaged	 the  villages on behalf of the deity.	 He  claimedonly  to be-the manager of the village for and on behalf  ofthe  deity,  Shri  Balaji, and did  not	 claim	any  privateownership.  At that time, he referred to the Land AlienationRegister  and produced a certified copy of the	Register  toshow that Shri Venkatesh was shown as the alienee.Ex.  634  is the genealogy filed by  the  plaintiff  whereinBhagwant  Annaji, uncle of Damodar Timmayya,  wrote  againstthe name of Timmayya that he had acquired nine villages, andwas  the  founder of Puja Naivedya, Utsav,  Annachhatra	 andSadavarat dedicated to Shri Venkatesh.	It was stated  therethat the villages were grants to the deity.  Similar are theadmissions in the Yadi, Ex. 626 dated December 15, 1886,  bythe  Mamlatdar	addressed  to Krishnarao Damodar  and  in  aletter,	 Ex.  199,  by the plaintiff  himself  addressed  toMankarnikabai,	wife  of  Krishnarao Damodar  in  1922.	  Inseveral	 suits which others filed, the defendant  there	 wasdescribed as " Shri787Venkatesh  Balaji Sansthan, Nasik, through manager" that  isthe appellant.	He represented as manager the owner, namely,the deity.Lastly,	 there is the history of this Sansthan published  bythe  appellant himself and written from	 original  documentssupplied  by him.  This was in 1931.  The appellant  in	 hisdeposition  admitted that he was intimately  connected	withthis writing and its publication.  This history is Ex.	642.It  gives  an  account	of the idol  and  the  temples,	 anddescribes how from time to time Peshwas and various  Sardarsgranted	 villages to the " Shri " and dedicated them to	 thedeity.	 The  conclusion alone need be stated,	because	 thedocument is a long one 'and the admissions are contained  innumerous places in it.	This is what was stated;"The  reader of the present history will have observed	thatthe  sansthan belongs to the deity and (the members  of	 thehouse  of)  Timaya  Maharaj  are  merely  the  managers	 andadministrators of the same...............The  management	 of it shall not be like that of  a  privateproperty."As a result of the Faisalnamas of the Inam Commission  whichare to be found in Exs. 135 to 144, 634 and 644, the  recordof  rights showed the deity as the owner and the jagirs	 andinams  as  Devasthan.	Learned counsel	 for  the  appellantcontends  that	these admissions do no prove  anything	morethan this that the entire establishment of Balaji Mandir wasdescribed  as 'a Sansthan and the ownership thereof  was  inthe   members  of  the	family.	  We  cannot   accept	thiscontention,  which runs counter to the plain tenor of  thosedocuments.  In these documents, the ownership of the  familyover  the temple, the deity and the properties of the  deityis not only not admitted but is denied.	 On the other  hand,the assertion always has been that the members of the familywere  merely the servants of the deity getting	remunerationfor  their  services and that the ownership  vested  in	 thedeity and none other.In  view  of  these admissions, the question  of  burden  ofproof, as we have already pointed out, is really788academic, and if any burden lay upon any party, it was	uponthe appellant to displace by cogent and convincing  evidencethat  these  admissions	 were  erroneous  and  need  not  beaccepted-in  proof.   These admissions	are  two-fold;	theyconcern	 the  nature of the properties in  dispute  and	 thenature of the idol.  Added to these are the decisions of theInam  Commissioner  in respect of the villages,	 which	wererecorded as Devasthan inams at the instance of Damodar,	 whoappealed against the order to record them as personal inams.The  value  to	be attached to the  decisions  of  the	InamCommissioner  had  come	 up  for  consideration	 before	 theJudicial  Committee in a series of cases.  It is  sufficientto  refer  to only one of them.	 In Arunachellam  Chetty  v.Venkatachellapathi Guru Swamigal (1), the Judicial Committeewhile dealing with the Inam Register for the year 1864 whichhad been produced for their inspection, attached the  utmostimportance to it.  It observed :"  It is true that the making of this Register was  for	 theultimate  purpose  of determining whether or not  the  landswere  tax-free.	  But  it must not  be	forgotten  that	 thepreparation  of this Register was a great act of State,	 andits  preparation  and  contents were  the  subject  of	muchconsideration	under  elaborately  detailed   reports	 andminutes.  It is to be remembered that the Inam Commissionersthrough	 their	officials made enquiry oil the	spot,  heardevidence  and  examined documents, and with regard  to	eachindividual  property, the Government was put  in  possessionnot  only ?of the conclusion come to as to whether the	landwas tax-free, but of a statement of the history, and  tenureof the property itself.	 While their Lordships do not  doubtthat  such a report would not displace actual and  authenticevidence  in individual cases; yet the Board, when  such  isnot available, cannot fail to attach the utmost	 importance,as  part of the history of the property, to the	 informationset  forth in the Inam Register."The  nature  and quantum of  the right and interest  in	 theland   was  thus  gathered  from  the  Inam  Registers	 andenquiries, which preceded them,(1)  (1919) L.R. 46 I.A. 204.789Thus,  it  was doubly necessary for the appellant  to  bringbefore	the Court all the documents in which his  title	 wascreated,  recognised or confirmed.  He has,  however,  filedonly  a	 selection,  and has refrained	from  bringing	intoevidence all the material in his possession which as late as1931  was available to him.  We have pointed out above	thatin 1931 he caused a history of the Sansthan to be published,and  it refers to numerous documents, which have  not  foundtheir way into Court.  The learned Judges of the High  Courtalso  mentioned	 this fact, and stated that in view  of	 thefailure of the appellant to prove conclusively that a highertitle  than the one made out before the Inam Commission	 wasavailable  to  him, no reliance could be  placed  upon	suchdocuments  as  had been exhibited.  We have to	see  whetherthis statement is correct in 'all the circumstances of	thiscase.The  property in the case consists of eleven villages,	cashallowances  and	 other urban properties	 to  which  separatereference  will be made.  All the eleven villages  were	 thesubject	 of  an	 enquiry by the	 Inam  Commission,  and	 thedecisions were uniform, except in one case where a technicalground	came  in the way.  We were taken  through  documentsrelating  to two such villages as indication of the kind  oftitle enjoyed by the appellant.	 It may be pointed out	herethat the appel. lant himself made no distinction between oneproperty  and  another, and stated that all  the  propertieswere  held by him under an identical title.  At the  hearingof  the appeal, he attempted to show that  these  propertieswere  granted to him, impressed with service of	 the  deity.But that was not the case he had made out either before	 theDistrict Court under the Charitable and Religious Trusts Actor in the plaint filed in this case.  It is not open to	 himnow to change his plea with regard to his ownership, and thecase  must  be	decided	 only on  the  contention  that	 theproperties were private.The  first  batch of documents to which	 our  attention	 wasdrawn,	concerns mostly Vihitgaon.  It consists of Exs.	 200to  206.   The first four are letters written  to  Mukadams,Kamavisdars and Mamlatdars to continue100790the Mokasa, Sahotra or Inam to Timayya, to whom the  villagewas given as Madade-Mnash.  The earliest of them is of	1714and the last is of 1755.  Exs. 204 and 206, however, mentioneven earlier sanads and the latter particularly mentions theoriginal  grant	 of the ruler, Mahomed Shah, under  his	 ownseal.	Those  sanads, however, have not been  produced,  asalso some of the sanads of the Peshwas, which were mentionedby the Inam Commission in Ex. 135.  None of these  documentsshows the terms on which the original grant was made, and inview of the meagreness of this evidence and its inconclusivenature,	 the  High  Court was  justified  in  accepting	 thefinding	 of  the Inam Commission that the grant was  to	 theDevasthan and constituted a Devasthan Inam.The next village of which the documents were shown to us  isBelatgaon.  Here too, the documents are of later dates,	 theoriginal grant not being produced.  In connection with	thisvillage also, the Inam Commission held that the village	 wasa Devasthan inam, and the documents produced in this case donot  show  anything to the contrary.   These  documents	 aremerely letters and so-called sanads and direct the Mukadams,etc.,  to  pay a share of the revenue to  Timayya.   Learnedcounsel	 for  the  appellant stated that  the  documents  inrespect	  of  the  other  villages  were  also	of   similarcharacter.  On an examination, we have found them to be	 so.In  all the order,-, made by the Inam Commission in  respectof  each  and every village, there is a reference  to  othersanads of earlier dates, which have not been produced beforeus.   The respondents bad, in the Court of  First  Instance,served a notice upon the appellant to produce all the sanadsadmittedly  in his possession and mentioned in Ex. 642,	 butthe appellant avoided doing so by pretending that the demandwas  vague.  In this view of the matter, it cannot  be	saidthat-there has been a misconstruction of any documents.	  Onthe  other band, the judgments in the two Courts below	haveproceeded  on  the  ground  that  the  appellant  having  anopportunity  to prove his case against the findings  of	 theInam  Commission and the admissions made from time to  time,had suppressed791the  original documents conferring villages upon him  as  healleged,  and had produced letters and so-called  sanads  oflater  dates,  which were no more than	mere  pay-orders  tocontinue the privilege which had been granted by the  rulersin  the	 earlier documents.  We do not	therefore  find	 anymisconstruction of the documents such as have been produced,and  we	 hold that the admissions-and  the  revenue  recordsremain uncontradicted.This  brings us to the cash allowances, which  were  grantedfrom  the  villages  to	 the  predecessors-in-title  of	 theappellant.  These documents number a few hundreds.  They tooare  merely  letters  written  from  time  to  time  to	 theMukadams,  Kamavisdars and Mamlatdars to pay the arrears  ofannuities, Varshashan, Aivaj to Haribakthi Parayana RajeshriTimayya	 Gosavi.   In almost all the documents, there  is  areference  that the original sanads had been filed, but	 theoriginal sanads have not been produced.	 The respondents, onthe  other  hand, produced some of these documents  to	showthat  the  original grant was to the Devasthan and  that  insome of them, there is specific mention that it was for	 theexpenses of " Shri ". These are Exs. 228, 229, 639, 230, 231and  233.  The respondents connect these documents with	 thehistory of Shri Venkatesh Balaji Sansthan (Ex. 642) to	showthat similar documents exist with regard to the grant of allthe  villages  and  the cash allowances but  have  not	beenproduced.   The appellant also admitted in Ex. 151 that	 hisancestors  had	received these grants in order	to  do	PujaArcha, Sadavarat, etc., of the deity.  The two Courts  belowhave from these circumstances ,drawn the conclusion that thegrant cannot be considered as personal but must be  regardedas  one made in favour of the deity or the Sansthan.  It  isfor this reason also that the appellant stated that all	 theproperties including the temple and the idol go in the	nameof ' Sansthan', and that this word was used compendiously todescribe the properties and the Vahiwatdar.  In our opinion,the  appellant	was conscious of the weakness of  his  case,because the grants to Sansthan or to the "Shri" could not beregarded as grants to an792individual, and he therefore included himself and the  deityin the expression 'Sansthan', so as to be able to show	thatthe grants to the Sansthan were grants to him as much as  tothe deity.The appellant, however, contended that this case was coveredby the decision of the Privy Council in Babu Bhagwan Din  v.Gir  Har  Saroop  (1).	That case  was	entirely  different.There,	the  grant which was a single one, was	made  to  anindividual  and his heirs in perpetuity from  generation  togeneration,  and  there	 was  no  evidence  otherwise.	 TheJudicial  Committee interpreted the grant in favour  of	 theindividual,  and stated that it was made to one	 Daryao	 Girand his heirs in perpetuity.  It observed:" Had it been intended as an endowment for an idol it  wouldhave  been very differently expressed; the reference to	 thegrantee's  heirs, and the Arabic terminology  'naslan  ba'danaslin wa batnam ba'da batnin' (descendant after  descendantand  generation after generation) are not reconcilable	withthe view that the grantor was in effect making a wakf for  aHindu religious purpose, even if it be assumed that this  isnot otherwise an untenable hypothesis."Though,	 in  that  case,  the origin of	 the  idol  was	 notcompletely traced, the grant itself disclosed the  existenceof a sanyasi, with an idol in a mud hut, to whom and not  tothe  little  temple  the grant, in effect,  was	 made.	 Thehistory of this deity is well-known, and it shows the mannerin  which the grants were made from time to time.  To  applythat case to the facts here is impossible.  In our  opinion,the principle to apply to this case is the one stated by thePrivy Council in Srinivasa Chariar v. Evalappa	Mudaliar(2).It was there observed:"  Their Lordships must dissent entirely from the view	thatwhere  the  discoverable origins of property show it  to  betrust  property the onus of establishing that it  must	haveillegitimately come into the trustee's own right rests	uponthe  beneficiaries.  Upon the contrary, the onus is  heavilyupon   the  trustee  to	 show  by  the	clearest  end	mostunimpeachable  evidence the the legitimacy of  his  personalacquisition."(1) (1939) L.R. 67 I.A. 1.(2) (1922) L.R. 49 I.A. 237.793The  appellant next argued that those properties in  respectof  which the High Court felt disposed to giving  a  findingthat  they  were  private, should at least  be	declared  asprivate	 properties,  He also made an  application  in	thisCourt  for joining the deity as a party to the	appeal,	 andrequested  that this Court should send down an issue  for  afinding	 by the Court of First Instance in the	presence  ofthe deity, whether these properties were private.  We  shalldeal  with  these  matters a little  later,  because  it  isnecessary  at this stage to decide whether the	public	haveany  right of worship in the temple.  Both the Courts  belowhave agreed that the deity and the temple were public.	 TheHigh  Court correctly pointed out that the matter has to  bejudged	in accordance with the dictum of Varadachariar,	 J.,in  Narayanan v. Hindu Religious Endowments Board  (1).	  Inthat  case  which arose under s. 9 of  the  Hindu  ReligiousEndowments  Act, the definition of a temple' meant  a  placeused  as a place of public religious worship  and  dedicatedto, or for the benefit of, or used as of right by the  Hinducommunity,  or any section thereof as a place  of   religousworship.  The learned Judge observed as follows:"  The question of intention to dedicate the place  for	 theuse  of the public or of the user by the public being as  ofright is necessarily a matter for inference from the  natureof  the institution and the nature of the user and  the	 waythe institution has been administered ... once a long courseof  user  by  the  public for  the  purpose  of	 worship  isestablished,  and the fact of a separate endowment in  trustfor  the deity is also proved, it is fair to infer that	 theinstitution must have been dedicated for user by the  public(unless	 the contrary is established)-particularly when	 thecharacter  of the temple, its construction, the	 arrangementof  the	 various parts of the temple and the nature  of	 thedeities	 installed  there  are similar to  what	 obtains  inadmittedly  public  temples.  Similarly, when  user  by	 thepublic	generally  to  the  extent  to	which  there  is   aworshipping public in the locality is established, it is notunreasonable to(1)  A.I.R. 1938 Mad. 209.794presume that the user by the public was as of right,' unlessthere  are  circumstances clearly suggesting that  the	usermust have been permissive or that the authorities in  chargeof  the	 temple	 have  exercised  such	arbitrary  power  ofexclusion  that	 it  can only be  ascribed  to	the  privatecharacter of the institution."The two Courts below reached  the conclusion that the publichad  a	right in the temple and the idol from  a  number  ofconsiderations.	 Shortly, they are as follows: The  buildingof the temple is public in character	inasmuch   as	 thestaircase leads straight to the idol,	and  the public	 areadmitted  throughout  the  day between 7 a.m.  and  10	p.m.There-is  no evidence to show that the public or any  memberof  it were ever excluded from the worship.  There  is	onlyone  instance when a member of the family was excluded,	 butthat  was because he had used abusive language	towards	 themother	of  the present appellant.  Indeed, the	 public	 areinvited	 to worship the deity, and no gift is ever  refused.The  merchants of the locality keep a separate khata in	 thename  of  the deity, in which they set a-part a	 portion  oftheir  earnings	 as kangi, which is paid  regularly  to	 thetemple.	  The  extent  of the ceremonies  performed  at	 thetemple also indicates the existence of a deity in which	 thepublic are interested rather than a family deity.  There arecelebrations,  Utsavs  etc.,  and daily a  large  number  ofBrahmans and others are fed and at the time of the festivalsall  the visitors are also fed.	 The deity also goes out  onsuch  occasions in processions through a marked	 route,	 andthere  are  ten carriages in which it rides for-  ten  days.These  festivals are celebrated with great e'clat,  and	 thepublic	not only of Nasik but of other parts of the  countryfreely join in them.  Even the daily routine of the deity isof  a  form  uncommon in the case of  family  deities.	 Theappellant   himself  admitted  that  the  idol	 was   beingworshipped  with  Rajopchar.  It may be mentioned  that	 forplaying	 music	or performing the services,  the  deity	 hasconferred  hereditary inams upon those who attend  to  them.There  is also a collection box placed at the  temple  wherethe  public, who are so minded, are invited to	place  theirofferings.795No  doubt, the Privy Council in Babu Bhagwan Din v. Gir	 HarSaroop	(1)  stated that the mere fact that  offerings	wereaccepted  from the public might not be a safe foundation  onwhich  to  build  an inference that the	 deity	was  public.Still,	the extent to which the offerings and the gifts	 go,may be a fair indication not merely of the popularity of thedeity  but of the extent of the public right in it.  As	 hasbeen  pointed out above, the Judicial Committee was  dealingwith  a	 single grant which was made to the Mahant  in	per-petuity,  and  the temple itself was a mud hut.	  Here,	 thetemple	covers	several	 acres	of  land,  and	has  a	vaststructure.  There is a Sabha Mandap, which accommodates	 600persons.   It  is inconceivable that such a big	 temple	 wasbuilt  only  for the use of the family.	 It  indicates	thatthere was an invitation to the public to use it as of right,and  user and continuous user for 200 years, without let  orhindrance, by the public has been proved in the case  beyonddoubt.	 It is also unusual for Rulers to make grants  to  afamily idol.  The fact that many Rulers have made grants  ofland and cash allowances to the deity for seva,puja etc., isitself indicative of the public nature of the trust.We think that the extensiveness of the temple and of  grantsto  it are pertinent circumstances to be taken into  accountin  judging the nature and extent of the public	 right.	  Itmay  be	 remembered that in the documents to which  we	havereferred  in an earlier portion of this judgment,  there  isreference  to  special	endowments  for	 festivals.    Theseendowments  would  not	be made if the deity  was  a  familydeity.	 In the Gazetteer dealing with Nasik District  thereis a full description of the temple and the deity.  Extractsfrom  it have been quoted by the two Courts below, and	theyshow  that the temple is a public one.	Indeed, the  historyof  the	 deity	written at the	instance  of  the  appellanthimself (Ex. 642) indicates the public right in the deity.As  against these, the appellant contended that	 there	wereother  circumstances  which indicated that the deity  was  afamily diety.  He examined Dr. Kurtkote,(1)  (1939) L. R. 67 I. A. 1.796who gave some reasons for an opinion that the temple was nota public one but a mere Deva-ghar.  He stated that the	idolof  'Balaji  did not appear to have been  firmly  installed,that  it was installed on an upper floor, that	householdersresided	 in the temple and that daily worship was  suspendedwhen  there was a birth or death in the family, and last  ofall,  he  stated  that	the deity  being  movable,  must  beregarded as a family deity.  It may be pointed out here thatthe deity is sometimes invited to private residences at	 thetime  of festivals, for dinner.	 This circumstance was	alsopleaded	 as  indicating that the temple is private  and	 thedeity  a family deity.	We shall now briefly  examine  thesereasons	 to  see whether they outweigh the evidence  of	 thepublic character of the deity, which we have analysed above.We  begin  with a very small point which was made  that	 thetemple of Balaji at Nasik has no dome or Kalas.	 This is  anadmitted fact, but vasudev (P.W. 12) admitted that there wasno  dome or Kalas at Balaji temple at Devalgaon Raja,  whichis a public temple.  So also other temples mentioned in	 thecase.  It seems that nothing really turns upon the existenceof  a dome or Kalas, and no authority has been cited  beforeus to show that it is a conclusive circumstance in  decidingthat the temple is public.It  must be remembered that this idol was found in  a  riverand   did  not	need  consecration  ceremonies,	 which	 arenecessary  for a new idol, which is set up in a new  temple.It  was	 first	placed inside the house of  Bapaji  Buva  atJuniar,	 and  was  removed from that place as  a  result  ofinstructions vouchsafed by the deity itself to Bapaji Buva'ssuccessor.   It	 was then installed at Nasik ' Where  a	 bigtemple	has  grown.   No doubt, in  some  portions  of	thisbuilding  the family of the Pujadhikhris reside without	 anyobjection from any person The extensiveness of the  buildingmakes  it impossible to think that they are residing  withinthe  temple, or that the Thakurbari is within their  privateresidence.   Indeed, the description of the temple as  givenin  the	 Gazetteer clearly shows that the  temple  in  quitedistinct797from the residential quarters, and that also is the evidenceof  the appellant himself.  With regard to the	installationof  the idol on the first floor, we have  already  mentionedthat  the  staircase  from the ground leads  direct  to	 thesanctum.   It was, however, admitted by Dr.   Kurtkote	thatthe  deity  at	Bindu  Madhav  temple  at  Benares  in	alsoinstalled  on  the upper storey, though	 he  explained	thatbeneath the idol there is a solid stone pedestal, which runsright  from the ground to the first floor.  No question	 wasput  to	 him as to whether the deities	there,	were  firmlyinstalled  or moveable, He, however, admitted that the	textof  Prathista Mayukha did not mention that the	idol  shouldnot be installed on an upper storey.  In our opinion, in theabsence	 of  any text prohibiting the  installation  of	 thedeity  on an upper floor, we cannot draw any inference	thatthe temple is private.The  real ground on which the claim has been made  that	 thedeity is a family deity is that it is capable of being movedfrom  one  place  to another, and, in  fact,  is  so  moved.Evidence  was led to show that in the early history of	thistemple	the  Pujadhikaris took the deity on  visits  to	 thevarious	 ruling chiefs.	 Documents have been filed  to	showhow arrangements were made for the journey of the deity	 andinstructions issued to all concerned to give all  facilitiesfor it.	 It is also in evidence-and is indeed  admitted-thatwhen  the deity is invited on festive occasions	 to  privateresidences,  a	substitute  idol is also left  at  the	maintemple	for  the  public to  worship.	Further,  all  theseremovals  are temporary, and the deity is brought  back	 andinstalled  in  its  abode  afterwards.	 The  deity  at	 theJaganath  temple  at  Puri  is	also  shifted  for  periodicprocessions, and is brought back to its place. Dr.  Kurtkotestated	that the installation of an idol can be either in  amovable form (chala) or -stationary form (sthira), and	thatit  is	so  mentioned in the  Prathista	 Mayukha.   He	alsoadmitted  that	it could not be said that the idol  was	 notinstalled  because  it	could be moved	from  one  place  toanother.   No  other authority was cited before	 us  at	 thehearing as to whether s a idol cannot at all be101798moved  from the place where it is installed, even though  itmay be installed in a movable form (chala).There  are, however, cases in which this matter has come  upfor consideration before the Courts.  In Ram Soondur Thakoorv.  Taruck Chunder Turkoruttun (1), there was a	 destructionof  the temple by the erosion of the river on the  banks  ofwhich  the  idol was installed.	 The suit was filed  by	 theplaintiffs  for a declaration of their right to	 remove	 theidol to their own house and to keep it there for the  periodof  their  turn	 of worship.  This claim  was  decreed.	  Onappeal,	 Dwarknath Mitter and Ainslie, JJ., interfered	onlyto the extent that the lower Court ought to have defined theprecise	 period	 for which the plaintiffs were	entitled  toworship	 the  idol  before it  could  make  the	 declaratorydecree,	 which	it had passed in their	favour.	  They	alsodirected  that if it was found by the lower appellate  Courtthat the plaintiffs and the defendants were jointly entitledto worship the idol during any part of the period  mentionedby  the	 plaintiffs, the,lower appellate  Court	 should	 notallow  the plaintiffs to remove the idol to their own  houseat  Khatra  for that portion of time.  It appears  from	 thejudgment  that though the plaintiffs were allowed to  removethe  idol to their own house, they were to re-convey  it  attheir  own expense to the place where it was at the time  ofthe  institution of the suit.  The learned Judges,  however,qualified their judgment by saying that it was not contendedin  the	 case before then that the idol	 was  not  removableaccording to the Hindu Shastras.In  Hari Raghunath v. Anantji Bhikaji (2), the temple was  apublic one.  It was held by the High Court that under  Hindulaw,  the manager of a public temple has no right to  removethe  image from the old temple and instal it in another	 newbuilding,  especially when the removal is objected to  by  amajority of the worshippers.  It is interesting to note thatin  this case Dr. P. V. Kane appeared, and in the course  ofhis argument, he stated as follows:"According to the Pratishtha-Mayukha of Nilkantha and  otherancient works an image is to(1) (1873) 19 Weekly Reporter 28.(2) (1920) I.L.R. 44 Bom. 466.799be   removed  permanently  only	 in  case   of	 unavoidablenecessity, such as where the current of a river carries awaythe image.  Here the image is intact.  It is only the templethat  is dilapidated.  For repairing it, the image need	 notnecessarily  be	 removed.  Even if it may  be  necessary  toremove	the  image,  that will	be  only  temporarily.	 Themanager	 has  under Hindu law no power to  effect  permanentremoval of an image in the teeth of opposition from a  largenumber	of the worshippers.  In the instances cited  by	 theappellant,   worshippers  had  consented  to  the   removal.Permanent removal of an image without unavoidable  necessityis against Hindu sentiment." (italics supplied)Shah, J. (Crump, J. concurring) observed as follows:"  It  is not disputed that the existing building  is  in  aruinous condition and that it may be that for the purpose ofeffecting  the	necessary repairs the image may have  to  betemporarily  removed.	Still the question  is	whether	 thedefendant as manager is entitled to remove the image with  aview to its installation in another, building which is	nearthe existing building.	Taking the most liberal view of	 thepowers of the manager, I do not think that as the manager ofa  public temple he can do what he claims the power  to	 do,viz.,  to remove the image from its present position and  toinstal it in the new building.	The image is consecrated  inits present position for a number of years and there is	 theexisting  temple.  To remove the image from that temple	 andto  instal  it	in another  building  would  be	 practicallyputting	 a  new	 temple in place  of  the  existing  temple.Whatever may be the occasions on which the installation of anew  image  as	a substitute for the old  may  be  allowableaccording to the Hindu law, it is not shown on behalf of thedefendant  that	 the  ruinous  condition  of  the   existingbuilding is a ground for practically removing the image fromits  present place to a new place permanently.	We  are	 notconcerned  in this suit with the question of  the  temporaryremoval which may be necessary when the existing building isrepaired."800The  case is an authority for the proposition that the	idolcannot be removed permanently to another place, because thatwould be tantamount to establishing a new temple.   However,if  the	 public agreed to a temporary removal, it  could  bedone for a valid reason.In Pramatha Nath Mullick v. Pradyumna Kumar Mullick (1), thedeed  of trust created an injunction against the removal  ofthe deity.  The following quotation from that deed of  trustshows the powers of the manager :"  Shall be for ever held by the said Jadulal  Mullick,	 hisheirs, executors, administrators and representatives to	 andfor  the  use of the said Thakur Radha Shamsunderji  to	 theintent that the said Thakur may be located and worshipped inthe  said  premises and to and for no other  use  or  intentwhatsoever provided always that if at any time hereafter  itshall  appear  expedient to the said  Jadulal  Mullick,	 hisheirs, executors, administrators or representatives so to doit  shall  be  lawful  for him or them	upon  his  or  theirproviding and dedicating for the location and worship of thesaid  Thakur  another suitable Thakur Bari of  the  same  orgreater	 value than the premises hereby dedicated to  revokethe trusts hereinbefore contained and it is hereby  declaredthat  unless and until another Thakur Bari is  provided	 anddedicated  as  aforesaid the said Thakur shall	not  on	 anyaccount	 be removed from the said premises and in the  eventof  another  Thakur  Bari being provided  and  dedicated  asaforesaid  the	said Thakur shall be  located  therein,	 butshall  not  similarly be removed therefrom  on	any  accountwhatsoever."The  Privy Council analysed this provision, and stated	thatthe  last  condition made the idol  immovable,	except	uponproviding for the dedicatee another Thakur Bari of the	sameor larger value.  It observed:"  The	true view of this is that the will of  the  idol  inregard to location must be respected. if, in the course of aproper and unassailable administration(1)  (1925) L.R. 52 I.A. 245.801of  the	 worship of the idol by the Shebait, it	 be  thoughtthat  a family idol should change its location the  will  ofthe  idol  itself, expressed through his guardian,  must  begiven effect to."Their  Lordships ordered the appointment of a  disinterestednext  friend, who was to commune with the deity	 and  decidewhat course should be adopted, and later the instructions ofthe  deity  vouchsafed to that representative  were  carriedout.  In this case, there was a family deity and there was aprovision  for removing the idol to another better and	moresuitable Thakur Bari, if it appeared necessary.	 The  wishesof  the	 deity	were considered and  consulted.	  The  case,however,  is  not quite clear as to whether in	all  circum-stances the idol can be removed from one place to another.The  last case on the subject is Venkatachala  v.  Sambasiva(1).  The headnote quite clearly gives the decision, and maybe quoted here:"  Where  all  the  worshippers of  a  temple,	who  are  inmanagement of it, decide to build a new temple, the old	 onebeing  in  ruins  and the site on which	 it  stood  becominginsanitary  and inconvenient for worshippers,  then,  unlessthere is clear prohibition against their demolishing the oldtemple and building a new temple, the Court is not  entitledto prevent the whole body from removing the temple with	 itsimage to a new site in the circumstances."Devadoss,  J.,	quoted	passages  from	Kamika	Agama,	 andreferred  to  Prathista Mayukha by Nilakanta,  Purva  KaranaAgamam and Nirnaya Sindhu.  He, however, relied upon certainpassages  from	Purva Thanthiram by  Brighu,  Kamika  Agama,Siddhanta  Sekhara and Hayasirsha Pancharatra, and  came  tothe  above conclusion.	The effect of the decision  is	thatthe whole body of worshippers, if they are of one mind,	 caneven permanently remove an idol to another habitation.In  the present case, the idol was not	permanently  removedexcept once when it was taken away from Junnar and installedat Nasik.  As we have already(1)  A I.R. 1927 Mad. 465; 52 M.L.J. 288.802pointed	 out,  that was at the behest of the  deity  itself.Afterwards, the deity which is installed in a removable form(chala)	 has  been  temporarily	 removed  for  purposes	  of-processions,  invitations  to dinner and  visits  to  otherparts  of  India, so that worshippers may have a  chance  ofmaking	their  devotion.  This has continued  for  over	 250years, and has not been objected to at any time.  Indeed,  ahuge  concourse of worshippers always followed	and  followsthe  deity  every time it is taken out temporarily  for	 thepurpose	 of  affording the votaries chances  of	 worship  atclose  quarters.   This	 appears to be a  custom  which	 hasreceived recognition by antiquity and by the consent of	 theworshipping public it may be noted that the deity is broughtback  to the old site after its temporary sojourn  at  otherplaces, and that further during the absence of the deity,  asubstitute  idol is placed, so that the dedicatee  is  neverout of possession of the temple.In  view  of these circumstances and the cases to  which  wehave  referred,	 and in view, further, of the fact  that  notext  or authority was cited against such course of  conductwith  the consent of the worshipping public, we do  not	 seeany  reason for holding that the temple was private and	 thedeity, a family idol.The  appellant	raised	a special  argument  in	 respect  ofcertain	 properties,  which, he stated,	 were  private.	  Herelied	upon the observations of the learned Judges  of	 theHigh  Court  that  they were inclined  to  hold	 that  theseproperties  were  private  but	refrained,  from  giving   adeclaration in view of the fact that the deity had not	beenjoined.	  These	 properties are jat  inams,  recently  builtproperties,  namely,  the  Balaji  temple  and	the   'ShreeTheatre',  and	an  allowance  which goes  in  the  name  ofKulkarni  commutation  amounting to Rs. 24  per	 year.	 Thedifficulty  in	the  way  of  the  appellant  is  real.	  Herefrained from joining the deity, if not as a necessary,  atleast  as a proper party to the suit.  If he had joined	 thedeity  and  the	 deity was represented	by  a  disinterestedguardian, necessary pleas against his contention could	havebeen  raised  by the guardian, and it is  likely  that	someevidence would also have been given.  The appellant seeks to803cover  up his default by saying that the suit was one  unders.  1,	r. 8 of the Code of Civil Procedure,  and  that	 theHindu  public  was  joined  and	 the  deity  was  adequatelyrepresented.   In a suit of this character, it is  incumbentto  have all necessary parties, so that the declaration	 maybe  effective  and  binding.  It is obvious  enough  that  adeclaration  given against the interests of the	 deity	willnot bind the deity, even though the Hindu Community as	suchmay be bound.  The appellant would have avoided circuity  ofaction, if he had acceded to the very proper request of	 therespondents  to	 bring on record the deity as a	 party.	  Hestoutly	 opposed  such a move, but at a very late  stage  inthis  Court  he has made an application that  the  deity  bejoined.	 It is too late now to follow the course adopted  bythe  Privy  Council in Pramatha Nath  Mullick  v.  PradyumnaKumar Mullick (1) and Kanhaiya Lal v. Hamid Ali (2), in viewof  the	 attitude adopted by the appellant himself  and	 thewarning	 which	the  trial Judge had issued to	him  in	 hisorder.	 There is yet another reason why the case cannot  bere-opened,  because the appellant himself did not choose  tomake  any  distinction between one property and	 another  asregards	 the  claim of his ownership.  He stated  that	eachitem  of property was acquired and owned in the same  manneras another.Arguments  were addressed with regard to the Balaji  Mandir,which  is situated on S. Nos. 1353 and 1354.  This land	 wasgranted to one of the appellant's predecessors by Ex. 571 bythe  Peshwa.   At that time 3 bighas of land were  given  toBapaji	Buva, son of Timayya, because he was a	"worthy	 andrespectful " Brahman, for the express purpose of building  atemple.	  No  doubt,  in Exs. 878 and 153 the  name  of	 theVahiwatdar has been mentioned, and the latter is a sanad  ofthe  Governor of Bombay confirming the grant free from	landrevenue.   The original grant was obviously made not to	 theBrahman concerned but for the express purpose of building  atemple upon the land.  We have already held that the  publichave a right in the deity and the temple is also public and(1) (1925) L.R. 52 I.A. 245.(2) (1933) L.R. 66 I.A. 263,804that, therefore, the grant must be regarded also as part  ofthe property of the deity.  It is significant that after thetemple	was  built with borrowings from others a sum  of  noless than Rs. one lakh was paid the Peshwas and other Rulersto  satisfy them.  The finding of the learned Judges of	 theHigh  Court could not therefore given in the absence of	 thedeity, and we think that we should only say that in view  ofthe  case as pleaded, the declaration should have  been	 re-fused  without any comments adverse to the deity.   A  Courtshould not, in a case which goes by the board on a  cardinalpoint,	decide matters which cannot arise in it but  may  bepertinent  in  another case between different  parties.	  Weare,  however, clear that no declaration can now be  grantedin respect of this property.The  next  property which was specially	 mentioned  for	 ourconsideration  is  the	"  Shree Theatre  ",  in  which	 theappellant  claims  to hold a third share.   Here  also,	 theextracts from the property register have been filed, and theappellant  has	drawn our attention to Ex. 290, which  is  adeed  of  purchase  and	 Ex.  691,  the	 permission  by	 theMunicipality  to build upon the land.  It was necessary	 forthe  appellant	to  show that this  Theatre-was	 built	frommonies derived from a private source and not from the incomeof  the	 Devasthan.   He  has  not  furnished	satisfactoryevidence, and in describing the source of money he  referredto the sale of one property, the price whereof according  tohim was utilised for the Theatre.  It, however, appears fromthe record of the case that with that money Balaji Vihar waspurchased,  and the case made before us was that it was	 thesale  proceeds of Balaji Vihar which were used to build	 theTheatre.   If that be so, then the evidence to	connect	 theTheatre with Balaji Vihar ought to have been tendered and  aplea to that effect taken.  We cannot accept the argument inlieu  of plea and evidence, and we think that the  appellanthas  neglected	to bring the necessary evidence to  reach  afinding,  This	matter also suffers from the  same  defects,-namely,  the failure to join the deity as a party and	alsonot waking a distinction between one,805kind  of  property and another.	 Here too,  the	 High  Courtshould not have expressed any opinion adverse to the  deity,without the deity being a party.  The same has to be said ofitems  3 to 10 in the first part of Sch.  A annexed  to	 theplaint	and three survey numbers of Belatgavan, Deolali	 andother  jat  inams.   No useful purpose	will  be  served  inexamining   in	detail	the  evidence  relating	  to   theseproperties  in	the absence of the deity.  It  may  also  bepointed	 out  that  the	 appellant  maintained	no  separateaccounts  for  these  properties, and  made  no	 distinctionbetween	 them  and  the other properties to  which  we	havereferred  earlier.  A trustee must not mix private  propertywith trust property, because if he does so, he undertakes  aheavy burden of proving that any particular property is his,as distinct from the trust.  See Lewin on Trusts, 16th Edn.,p.  225.   To  the  same  effect  are  the  observations  inSrinivasa Chariar v. Evalappa Mudaliar (1).The  result  is	 that the declaration  which  the  appellantsought	in  his suit that the temple, the deity	 and  plaintproperties  were  all  of  private  ownership,	was  rightlyrefused	 by  the  Courts  below.  The  trial  Judge  gave  adeclaration  that defendants 1 to 4 are en titled to  customary  worship  and maintenance.	Strictly  speaking,  such  afinding	 was not necessary in a case of this character,	 andother  matters concerning rights of individuals	 should	 nothave  been gone into in a suit filed under s. 5(3)  of,	 theAct.  The appellant is partly to blame.	 He set up a case ofprivate	 ownership with all rights centred in  himself,	 anddefendants  1 to 4 therefore not only raised the  plea	thatthe  appellant	was a mere manager but also  asserted  theirrights	in  the property.  We think that  the  Courts  belowmight have refrained from pronouncing upon the rights of thedefendants,  because all that they had to do was  to  decidewhether	 the  property was trust of a  public  nature.	 We,however,  do not wish to give any direction in	the  matter,because	 the suit, as a whole, as laid by the plaintiff	 hasbeen  dismissed, and to make any observations might lead  tofurther	 litigation,  which is not in the interests  of	 thedeity.(1) (1922) L.  R. 49 I.A. 237.102806Respondents 6 and 7 raised before us the question of  costs.They  stated  that  the trial Judge had given  two  sets  ofcosts,	which  was  changed to one set by  the	High  Court.These  respondents should have cross-objected on this  pointagainst	 the judgment of the High Court, and in the  absenceof  any	 such cross-objection, no relief can be	 granted  tothem.	For  the  same reason, no relief  can  be  given  torespondent 7, in respect of whom the finding that he bad  noright of performing the seva and getting emoluments attachedto that right, as respondents 1 to 4, has not been  vacated,as  was	 done in the case of respondent 6. In  view  of	 ourobservations that these matters were alien to the suit whichhad been filed, we do not propose to deal with them.In the result, the appeal is dismissed.	 The appellant	willpersonally  pay the costs of Respondent 1. The other set  ofrespondents will bear their own costs.Appeal dismissed.