PETITIONER:OM PRABHA JAIN	Vs.RESPONDENT:GIAN CHAND & ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:01/04/1959BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.IMAM, SYED JAFFERSUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  837		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 516 CITATOR INFO : R	    1983 SC 558	 (25)ACT:Election  Dispute- Deposit for security for  costs-Dismissalof   Election	Petition  for  non-compliance	with   rulestherefor--Appeal  Maintainability-"  Trial  ",	meaning	 of-Recitals  in deposit receipt -" On whose behalf	 ",  meaningof-Representation of the People Act, 1951 (51 of 1951),	 ss.90(3), 98, 99, 116-A, 117.HEADNOTE:Section	 117 of the Representation of the People  Act,	1951provided: " The petitioner shall enclose with the petition aGovernment  Treasury receipt showing that a deposit  of	 onethousand rupees has been made by him...... in favour of	 theSecretary  to  the Election Commission as security  for	 thecosts of the petition."The  respondent, who filed an election petition	 challengingthe  validity  of the appellant's  election,  deposited	 theamount as required under s. 117 of the Act.  In the  depositreceipt, the words " Secretary to the Election Commission  "were  put  in  as against the name of the  person  on  whosebehalf	money  was paid.  The appellant contended  that	 thereceipt in this form showed that the money had been paid  bythe respondent acting for the517Secretary  to  the  Election Commission and not	 by  him  infavour	of  the	 latter,  and  that  as	 the  receipt	was,therefore,  not	 in terms Of S. 117, the  election  petitionshould be dismissed.  The Tribunal accepted the	 appellant'scontentions  and dismissed the election petition  under	 theprovisions of s. 90(3) of the Act.Held,  that  the words " on whose behalf "  in	the  depositreceipt,  in the context, must mean " in whose favour "	 andthat  the receipt was in full compliance with s. 117 of	 theAct.Held,  further, that the order passed by the Tribunal  underthe  powers contained in s. 90(3) Of the Act dismissing	 theelection petition is an order under s. 98 and is  appealableunder s. 116A.The word " trial " in s. 98 of the Act means the entire pro-ceeding before the Tribunal from the reference to it by	 theElection Commission to the conclusion.Harihar	 Singh v. Singh Ganga Prasad, A.I.R. 1958 Pat.	287,disapproved.Harish	Chandra Bajpai v. Triloki Singh, [1957] S.C.R.	370,relied on.JUDGMENT:   CIVIL  APPELLATE  JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal	 No.  85  of1959.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedAugust	12, 1958, of the Punjab High Court in  First  AppealOrder No. 183 of 1957, arising out of the judgment and orderdated  November	 8, 1957, of Shri  Harbaksh  Singh,  Member,Election  Tribunal, Karnal, in Election Petition No. 249  of1957.Purshottam Tricumdas, J. B. Dadachanji, S. N. Andley and  P.L. Vohra, for the appellant.Ganpat Rai, for respondent No. 1.Naunit Lal, for respondent No. 2.1959.  April 1. The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySARKAR,	 J.-ID the 1957 General Elections the appellant	 wasdeclared  elected to the Punjab Legislative  Assembly.	 Therespondent,  Gian  Chand, filed an election petition  for  adeclaration  that  the appellant's election was	 void.	 Theother	respondent  in	this  appeal,	presumably   anotherunsuccessful  candidate	 at the election, had  been  made  aparty  to the petition but he never appeared at	 any  stage.For  brevity we will refer to the respondent Gian Chand,  asthe respondent,518The  Election Tribunal before whom the petition came up	 fortrial framed a number of issues and recorded evidence.	Whenthe  case  was	ready for argument, the	 appellant  made  anapplication  to	 the Tribunal for an  order  dismissing	 thepetition under s. 90(3) of the Representation of the  PeopleAct, 1951, which is later set out, on the ground that s. 117of  that  Act  had  not been  complied	with.	Section	 117requires  that every election petition shall be	 accompaniedby  a Government Treasury receipt showing that a deposit  ofRs.  1,000 had been made by the petitioner infavour  of	 theSecretary  to  the Election Commission as security  for	 thecosts of the petition.	The appellant's contention was	thatthe receipt enclosed with the petition was not, for  reasonswhich will be mentioned later, in terms of the section.	 Therespondent  objected  to the application  being	 entertainedbecause	 of  the delay in filing it and also on	 the  groundthat  it could not be decided without taking evidence.	 TheTribunal overruled the respondent's objections and held on ascrutiny of the receipt alone that it was not in terms of s.117, and thereupon dismissed the election petition under thepowers	conferred  by s. 90 (3) without deciding  the  otherissues framed.The  respondent	 went  up in appeal to	the  High  Court  ofPunjab.	  It was there contended on behalf of the  appellantthat  no  appeal lay from an order  dismissing	an  electionpetition for the reasons mentioned in s. 96 (3) and that theorder  of  the Tribunal was in any event  right.   The	HighCourt  held  that  an appeal lay to it and  that  the  orderdismissing  the petition was wrong because the terms  of  s.117  had been complied with.  The present appeal is  againstthis order of the High Court.The first point that arises is whether an appeal lay to	 theHigh  Court.   The Act provides by s. 116A  that  an  appearshall  lie  from every order made by  an  Election  Tribunalunder s. 98 or s. 99 to the High Court of the State in whichthe  Tribunal  is situated.  The appellant's  contention  isthat  the order of the Tribunal dismissing the petition	 hadnot  been made under either of these sections.	It is  quiteclear that the519Tribunal's  order had not been made under s. 99.  The  pointthat arises is whether the order had been made under s.	 98.If it had not been made under s. 98, an appeal would clearlynot lie.  The appellant contends that it was not so made buthad been made under s.	 90 (3).  These two sections are setout below:" Section 98.-Decision of the Tribunal.-At the conclusion ofthe trial of an election petition the Tribunal shall make anorder-(a)  dismissing the election petition; or(b)  declaring	the election of all or any of  the  returnedcandidates to be void ; or(c)  declaring	the election of all or any of  the  returnedcandidates  to	be  void and the  petitioner  or  any  othercandidate to have been duly elected;"." Section-90--Procedure before the Tribunal. -(3)  The Tribunal shall dismiss an election  petition  whichdoes  not comply with the provisions of section 81,  section82  or	section	 117 notwithstanding that it  has  not	beendismissed by the Election Commission under section 85."Section 85 provides :-" Section 85.-If the provisions of section 81 or section  82or  section  117 have not been complied with,  the  ElectionCommission shall dismiss the petition."It  is first contended on behalf of the appellant  that	 therevisions of s. 85 and s. 90 (3) are substantially the	sameand  the fact that no appeal has been provided	against	 theorder made by the Election Commission under s. 85 should  betaken  as  indicating that no appeal law  against  an  orderunder s. 90 (3).  We are unable to agree with this view.  Itseems to us that whether an appeal lies against an order  ofthe  Tribunal has to be decided by reference to s. 116A	 andnot  by	 reference to the fact that a similar order  by	 theElection Commission has not been made appealable.It is next said that an order under s. 8 is by the terms  ofthe section, an order made at the conclusion of the trial ofan  election petition while an order dismissing	 a  petitionfor any of the reasons mentioned in520s.   90	 (3) is an order made prior to the  commencement  ofsuch trial or at least prior to its conclusion.	 It is	saidthat  the  word " trial " in s. 98 means that stage  of	 thetrial	where  evidence	 is  tendered  and   arguments	 areaddressed.  Therefore, it is contended, an order  dismissinga  petition under the powers contained in s.90(3) is not  anorder under s. 98 and it is consequently not appealable.We see no justification for this view.	An order made  underthe  powers  contained	in s. 90(3) brings  to	an  end	 theproceedings  arising out of a petition ; after it  is  made,nothing more remains for the Election Tribunal to try or  doin  respect  of that petition.	Therefore, it  would  appearthat it is made at the conclusion of the proceedings  beforethe Tribunal.  It follows that such an order is made at	 theconclusion  of	the trial by the Tribunal for,	as  will  bepresently seen, the sole duty of the Tribunal is to try	 thepetition;  the proceeding before it is the trial before	 it.For  the same reason it would be impossible to say that	 theorder  was made before the commencement of the trial of	 thepetition  by the Tribunal.  That would be  entirely  againstthe  whole  scheme  of	the Act	 which	we  now	 proceed  toconsider.Chapter	 III  of  Part	VI is beaded  "	 Trial	of  ElectionPetitions  ".  It consists of ss. 86 to 107 and	 covers	 theentire ground from the moment an election petition comes  toan  Election Tribunal till the final order of  the  Tribunalterminating  the  proceeding  arising out  of  the  petitionbefore	it.  The first section, s. 86, provides that if	 theElection  Commission does not think fit to dismiss under  s.85  the petition which has to be filed with it in the  firstinstance,  it shall refer the petition " for trial "  to  anElection  Tribunal  constituted	 by  it	 for  the   purpose.Therefore  it would seem that the sole duty of	an  ElectionTribunal is to try an election petition referred to it.	  Itis an ad hoc body created under s. 86 for this purpose only.When it passes an order which closes the proceedings  beforeit arising out of an election petition, it must be deemed tohave tried the petition and passed the order at the  conclu-sion of such trial.  It would no less be so when it521decides	 a  matter  before  it	and  there  by	brings	 theproceedings  to a close on one of the several issues  raisedand does not decide the other issues.  In such a case it hasmade  the  order after trial of that issue  for	 clearly  itcannot	make an order on -any issue without trying  it.	  Ithas therefore made the order at the conclusion of the  trialheld  by it.  And for this purpose, it makes  no  differencethat  the  issue tried is of the nature	 usually  called  aspreliminary  issue  or that the Tribunal does  or  does	 notconsider it necessary to try the remaining issues.The  same conclusion also follows from the other  provisionsof  the	 said  Chapter III of the Act,	some  of  which	 arehereinafter  mentioned.	  Section 86(4) gives  the  ElectionCommission  the	 power to fill a vacancy  occurring  in	 theoffice	of  a member of an Election Tribunal  and  upon	 thevacancy	 being	so filled up " the trial " of  the  petitionshall  be  continued  by  the  Tribunal	 as  if	 the  personappointed  in the vacancy had been on the Tribunal from	 thebeginning.  Since it is conceivable that a vacancy may occurin  the	 office of a member of a Tribunal  long	 before	 thefinal hearing, that is to say the taking of the evidence andthe commencement of the arguments, this section by providingthat  upon  the	 vacancy being filled " the  trial"  of	 thepetition  shall be continued must be taken as  contemplatingthe  proceeding	 prior to the final hearing also  as  trial.Under s. 88 an Election Tribunal may in its discretion sit "for any part of the trial at any place in the State in whichthe  election  had  taken  place.   Here  again	 the  entireproceeding  before the Tribunal from the reference to it  bythe  Election  Commission  till	 the  conclusion  is   beingconsidered  as	the trial.  Again under s. 89  the  ElectionCommission  may	 at any stage withdraw	a  petition  pendingbefore	a  Tribunal and transfer it " for trial	 to  anotherTribunal " and " that Tribunal shall proceed with the  trialfrom  the stage at which it was withdrawn " from  the  firstTribunal.  So here too the entire proceeding from the  firstreference  - to an Election Tribunal is being spoken  of  asthe trial.  Hence the contention of the66522learned	 counsel for the appellant that the trial  mentionedin  s. 98 is the stage in the proceedings in which  evidenceis  taken and arguments are heard, is unfounded.  That	wordin the other sections in this part of the Act clearly  meansthe  entire proceeding before a Tribunal from the  referenceto it by the Election Commission to the conclusion.  We findno reason to give it a restricted meaning in s. 98.Again,	suppose in a case no evidence was necessary but	 thepetition  was dismissed after hearing arguments only.	Thatwould  clearly be an order under s. 98.	 It would have	beenpassed	at  the conclusion of the trial.  How is  that	casedifferent from one in which on arguments having been  heard,the  petition is dismissed under the powers contained in  s.90(3)  ?  Obviously  here also the order was  made  -at	 theconclusion  of the trial.  An order passed by  the  Tribunalunder  the  powers  contained  in  s.  90(3)  bringing	 theproceeding  to a close is, therefore, in our view  an  ordermade under s. 98.The learned counsel for the appellant referred us to  HarishChandra	 Bajpai	 v.  Triloki Singh (1)	in  support  of	 hiscontention that the order of the Tribunal with which we	 areconcerned in this case was not made at the conclusion of thetrial.	We are unable to find anything. in that case to helphim.  There this Court was dealing with s. 90(2) of the	 Actin which the word trial' occurred.  This Court observed thatthe word trial' standing by itself may be susceptible of twomeanings, that is, as referring to the final hearing of	 thepetition  consisting  of examination  of  witnesses,  filingdocuments and addressing arguments, and also as referring tothe  entire  proceedings before the Tribunal from  the	timethat  the petition is transferred to it under s. 86  of	 theAct until the pronouncement of the award.  It held that	 theword  I	 trial' in the section meant the  entire  proceedingbefore the Tribunal.  This case therefore does not show thatthe word I trial' in s. 98 meant only the final hearing.  Onthe  contrary it shows that in s. 90(2) which is one of	 thesections  in  the  Chapter  of the Act	with  which  we	 areconcerned,(I)  [1957] S.C.R. 370,523the  word  'trial'  has been understood	 by  this  Court  asreferring  to the entire Proceeding.  That, as we have	saidearlier, is really a good reason for thinking that in s.  98the  word  'trial  has the same wider meaning  and  not	 thenarrow meaning of which, the -word standing by itself may becapable.It  also  seems to us that s. 90(3) which purports  to	dealwith  the " procedure before the Tribunal " only states	 thepower  of the Tribunal and s. 98 provides for the orders  tobe made by it in exercise of that power.  This view receivessupport	 from ss. 103, 106 and s. 107 of the Act.  Under  s.103, the Tribunal after it has made an order under s. 98 hasto  send  a copy of it to the Election	Commission  and	 therecords of the case to the District Judge of the place whereit  had	 been sitting.	Under s. 106, after receipt  of	 theorder of the Tribunal the Election Commission shall  forwardcopies of the order to the appropriate authority and to	 theSpeaker	 or Chairman of the House the election to which	 wasbeing questioned by the petition.  Section 107 provides thatevery  order made under s. 98 or s. 99 shall take effect  assoon  as  it  is pronounced by the  Tribunal.	Now  if	 thecontention of the appellant is right and an order dismissinga petition under the powers contained under s. 90(3) of	 theAct  is not an order under s. 98, such an order need not  besent either to the Election Commission or to the Speaker  orthe Chairman of the House concerned, neither would there  beany  provision in the Act stating when the order is to	haveeffect,	 nor  again  any  provision  enabling  the  ElectionTribunal, which is an ad hoc body, to dispose of the recordsof  the	 case  before it.  There is no reason  why  the	 Actshould	provide that a dismissal of an election petition  onthe merits as it has been called, shall be dealt with by theAct  in	 one way while a dismissal on  a  preliminary  pointshall be dealt with differently when the practical result ofboth kinds of dismissal is the same.  We are unable to thinkthat  the  Act could have intended such	 a  curious  result.Therefore again, it seems to us that an order in exercise ofthe powers given by s. 90(3) is made under s. 98.We were also referred to K. Kamaraja Nadar v. Kunju524Thevar	(1)  and the connected cases.	There  an  objectionunder s. 90(3) to an election petition similar to that whichthe  appellant	took  in  this	case,  was  described  as  apreliminary  objection	and it was said that if it  was	 notdecided	 first the result would be a full-fledged  trial  ofthe  election petition involving examination  of  witnesses.It was therefore directed that the preliminary point  shouldbe decided first as that might save costs and harassment  tothe parties by making it possible to avoid the trial of	 theother  issues.	 We are unable to hold	that  this  judgmentsupports the view that an order made under the powers  givenby  s. 90(3) is not an order made at the conclusion  of	 thetrial;	the  direction to decide what has  been	 called	 thepreliminary   objection,  first	 does  not  lead   to	thatconclusion.   The Court was not concerned with any  questionas to when an order under the powers given by s. 90(3) couldbe  made.  It was indicating a procedure best suited to	 theinterests  of the parties on the facts of that case and	 notlaying down any rule of law.The last argument advanced was based on s. 99.	That sectionsays  that  at the time of making an order under s.  98	 theTribunal shall also, where the petition contains a charge ofa  corrupt  practice having been committed,  make  an  orderrecording a finding whether or not such corrupt practice hadbeen  committed.   It  is said that if	all  orders  of	 theTribunal  dismissing  an election petition were held  to  beorders	under  s. 989 then,, where a  petition	contained  acharge of a corrupt practice and it was dismissed under	 thepowers	contained  in s. 90(3) the Tribunal had	 further  tomake  a	 finding as to whether the commission of  a  corruptpractice  had or had not been proved.  It is contended	thatsuch a position would be senseless for it would prevent	 theTribunal  from	ever  disposing	 of  an	 election   petitionsummarily  on  a preliminary ground.  Therefore it  is	saidthat  all  orders dismissing an election  petition  are	 notorders under s. 98 and that supports the view that an  orderunder  s.  90(3) is not an order under s. 98.	We  are	 notimpressed  by this argument.  If the proper construction  ofs. 99 is that an election petition cannot be dismissed on  apreliminary(1)  [1959] S.C.R. 583.525point  raised  under s. 90(3) where it contains	 charges  ofcorrupt	 practices  having been committed,  as	the  learnedcounsel	 for the appellant contends, that construction	musthave  effect  however senseless it may appear.	 Suppose  anelection  is sought to be avoided on the grounds,  that	 thereturned  candidate  was not qualified or that	one  of	 thenomination  papers had been improperly rejected and also  onthe ground of corrupt practices having been committed by thereturned  candidate,  all  of which  are  good	grounds	 forsetting aside an election under s. 100 of the Act.  In	sucha  case	 too,  if the construction put upon  s.	 99  by	 thelearned	 counsel  for the appellant is right,  the  Tribunalcannot	allow  the  petition on any one	 of  the  first	 twogrounds,  which	 it  could have done after  a  very  summarytrial,	but  must proceed to decide the charges	 of  corruptpractice alleged.  This can be said to be equally  senselessas where having dismissed a petition for non-compliance withs.  117	 the  Tribunal is made to record a  finding  on	 thecorrupt practices alleged.  On the other hand, if it is	 notsenseless in the one case it is not senseless in the  other.We do not therefore find much force in the argument based onan  interpretation  of s. 99 supposed to  produce  senselessresults.All  this cannot, in any event, supply a reason for  holdingthat  an  order	 which terminates  the	proceedings  arisingbefore	an Election Tribunal is not an order passed  at	 theconclusion  of	the trial when it was made for	the  reasonsmentioned in s. 90(3).	We have earlier stated that the onlyduty  of  the  Tribunal is to try  and	decide	an  electionpetition and the order on the preliminary point may  disposeof  that petition.  We may also point out that under  s.  99(1)  (b), the Tribunal at the time of making an order  unders.  98 has also to make an order awarding costs	 and  fixingthe  amount thereof.  If an order authorised by s. 90(3)  isnot  an order under s. 98 then, when dismissing	 a  petitionunder  s.  90(3)  the  Tribunal	 would	appear	to  have  nojurisdiction  to make an order for costs.  That	 can  hardlyhave been intended.We  therefore think that an order dismissing a petition	 forthe reasons mentioned in s. 90(3) is an order526under  s.  98  and  is appealable under	 s.  116A.   In	 ouropinion, the case of Harihar Singh v. Singh Ganga Prasad (1)which took the contrary view, was wrongly decided.As  to	the  merits of the appeal, we  find  no	 difficulty.Under  s. 117 of the Act the Treasury receipt has to show  adeposit	 of  Rs.  1,000 in favour of the  Secretary  to	 theElection   Commission.	 There	is  no	dispute	  that	 therespondent  deposited  the required amount  and	 enclosed  adeposit	 receipt  with his petition.   The  deposit  receiptfiled  by the respondent contained the following  statementson which the appellant's contention is based;-    1.	  By whom tendered-	   Gian Chand    2.	   Name of the person onSecretary to    whose behalf money	   the Election   is paid-		    Commission.The contention is that the receipt in this form showed	thatthe  money  had been paid by the respondent acting  for	 theSecretary  to  the  Election Commission and not	 by  him  infavour	of  the latter.	 We are wholly unable  to  read	 thedeposit receipt in that way.  The second of the two  entriesreproduced above is intended to indicate the person in whosefavour	the  money  has been paid; 'on	whose  behalf'	hereclearly indicates in whose favour or for whose benefit.	 Theform of the receipt contains no other heading for indicatingthe person in whose favour the money was paid and of  courseit was paid in favour of somebody.  That makes it  perfectlyclear that the words 'on whose behalf' mean in whose favour.It would be absurd to think that the respondent had paid themoney  into  Treasury  as  security for	 the  costs  of	 theelection  petition  acting as the agent	 of  the  Secretary,Election Commission, which would be the position if we	wereto accept the appellants contention.We  feel  Do doubt that the receipt was in  full  compliancewith s. 117 of the Act.In the result we dismiss this appeal with costs.Appeal dismissed.(1)  A.I.R. 1958 Pat. 287.527