PETITIONER:THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BANKURA MUNICIPALITY	Vs.RESPONDENT:LALJI RAJA AND SONS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:23/03/1960BENCH:SHAH, J.C.BENCH:SHAH, J.C.GUPTA, K.C. DASCITATION: 1960 AIR  871		  1960 SCR  (3) 358ACT:Municipality-Unwholesome food--Seized under warrant--If	 canbe  directed  to be destroyed--Bengal  Municipal  Act,	1932(Ben.  Act.  XV of 1932), ss. 430, 431(2).HEADNOTE:The  respondents  were the owners of an	 oil  seed  pressingfactory	 situated within the limit of a municipality.	Theyused  to import mustard seeds from different areas and	theyalso held a(1)  (1952) L.A.C.103. (2)(1958)1 L.L.J. 63. (3) A.I.R. 1959Bom. 248.359licence	 for  selling  Mustard seed.  On  a  report  of	 theSanitary  Inspector of the Municipality, the  Sub-DivisionalOfficer issued a search warrant directing seizure of a largequantity of " rotten and decomposed mustard seed " from	 thepossession   of	 the  respondents.   The  Chairman  of	 theMunicipality  applied to the District Magistrate for  actionunder  s. 431 and s. 432 of the Bengal Municipal  Act.	 Theproceedings  started on the petition of the Chairman of	 theMunicipality   had  a  chequered  career.   Ultimately	 theDistrict   Magistrate  found  that  the	 mustard  seed	 wasunwholesome  and unfit for human consumption on the date  ofseizure	 and  directed, in exercise of the powers  under  S.431(2)	of  the	 Act,  that the same be	 made  over  to	 theCommissioners  of  the Municipality for disposal  either  asmanure	or as cattle feed.  The High Court in  revision	 setaside  the order of the District Magistrate holding that  s.431 of the Act under which the order was made did not  applyto  a  case of seizure of unwholesome food under  a  warrantissued	under  s.  430.	 On appeal by  the  Municipality  byspecial leave:Held, that the powers under s. 431(2) of the Bengal  Munici-pal  Act  (XV  of  1932),  were	 expressly  directed  to  beexercised  by the Magistrate in respect of  articles  seizedunder s. 428, and there was nothing in s. 431(2) which mightjustify tile view that those powers could also be  exercisedin  respect of articles seized under a warrant issued  unders. 430.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 119  of57.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedthe  24th  August,  1955,  of the  Calcutta  High  Court  inCriminal Revision No. 596 of 1955.C.   B. Agarwala and Sukumar Ghose, for the appellant.B.   Sen  and  S.N. Mukherjee, for  the	 respondents.  1960.March 23.  The Judgment of the Court WAS delivered bySHAH,  J.--M/s.	 Lalji Raja & Sons-who will  hereinafter  bereferred to as the respondents-are the owners of an oil seedpressing  factory  known as the Gouranga Oil  Mill  situatedwithin	the limits of the Bankura Municipality in the  Stateof West Bengal.	 For extracting oil, the respondents  importmustard	 seed  from different areas.  The  respondents	alsohold a license for the @ale of mustard Seed.On the application of the Sanitary Inspector of the  BankuraMunicipality, the Sub-Divisional Officer, Bankura, issued  asearch warrant directing seizure of 900 bags of "rotten	 anddecomposed mustard seed", 600 bags stored in the mill godownand 300 bags stored360in  the	 court-yard  of the rice  mill	at  Hanseswar  Maji.Pursuant  to  the search, a large quantity of  mustard	seedspread	out for drying in the Gouranga Oil Mill was  seized,and  certain bags lying in  the rice mill were also  seized.On  the	 report	   made	  by  the  Sanitary  Inspector,	 theChairman  of  the  Municipality	 applied  to  the   DistrictMagistrate  of Bankura on March 10, 1950, for  action  underss. 431 and 432 of the Bengal Municipal Act, No. XV of 1932,alleging  that	the mustard seed seized was "  in  a  highlydecomposed state and gave out an offensive stench" and	thatthe same was unwholesome and unfit for human consumption.The  proceedings started on the petition of the Chairman  ofthe  Municipality had a chequered career. it is	 unnecessaryto  sit	 out  for the purposes of this	appeal	the  diverseorders	which  were made from time to time by  the  DistrictMagistrate  and	 which were set aside by the High  Court  ofJudicature at Calcutta.	 It may be sufficient to state	thaton May 26, 1950, the District Magistrate ordered restorationof  the mustard seed bags to the respondents and that  orderwas set aside bags Division Bench of the Calcutta High Courtin  revision.	Another order passed by the  District  Magi-strate in April 1951 directing that the contents of the bagsbe disposed of as " manure or fodder " was set aside by	 theCalcutta High Court and the proceedings were directed to  beretried.  The District Magistrate again held an enquiry	 andby his order dated November 10, 1954, held that the  mustardseed  was lawfully seized in accordance with the  provisionsof  the Bengal Municipal Act, 1932, that it was	 unwholesomeand  unfit for human consumption on the date of seizure	 anddirected  in exercise of the powers under s. 431(2)  of	 theAct  that the same be made over to the Commissioners of	 theBankura	 Municipality for disposal either as manure.  or  ascattle	feed.	The High Court at Calcutta  by	order  datedAugust 24, 1955, in exercise of its revisional jurisdiction,set aside the order of the District Magistrate holding	thats. 431 of the Bengal Municipal Act under which the order wasmade, had no application to a case of seizure of unwholesomefood seized under a warrant issued under s. 430.361Against	 the order of the High Court, this appeal  is  filedwith special leave.The  only  question  which falls to be	determined  in	thisappeal	is whether articles of food seized under  a  warrantissued	by a Magistrate in exercise of the powers  under  s.430  of	 the  Bengal  Municipal Act may	 be  ordered  to  bedestroyed under s. 431(2) of the Act.  In order to determinethis   question,  it  is  necessary  to	 refer	to   certainprovisions of the Bengal Municipal Act, 1932.Section	 421  prohibits,  amongst  other  acts,	 selling  orstoring	 for  sale of unwholesome articles to  be  used	 forhuman  consumption.   Section  427  (in	 so  far  as  it  ismaterial)  authorizes  the Commissioners and  certain  otherofficers  of  a Municipality to enter upon and	inspect	 anyplace  in  which any article of food is	 deposited  for	 thepurpose	 of  sale or preparation for sale or  to  which	 anyarticle	 of food intended for human consumption	 is  broughtfor  such purpose, and also to inspect the articles of	foodwhich may be found in the place inspected.  Clause (1) of s.428   confers  upon  the  Commissioners	 and  the   officersdesignated  in	s.  427	 power to  seize  articles  of	foodintended  for  human  consumption  if,	in  the	 course	  ofinspection,  it	 appears that the same	are  unwholesome  orunfit for human consumption.  Section 429 provides that	 thearticles  of  food  referred to in s. 428  which  have	beenseized	under that section may, with the written consent  ofthe owner or the person in whose possession they are  found,be ordered to be destroyed.  If the consent of the owner  orthe  person in possession is not obtained and  the  articlesare of a perishable nature, the officer seizing the same maytake them before a Magistrate who may, if it appears to	 himthat  the  articles are unsound or unwholesome or  unfit  ashuman food, condemn the same or order them to be  destroyed.Section	 430 (in so far as it is material) provides that  ifany  Magistrate	 is  satisfied on  the	application  of	 theCommissioners,	Health	Officer, Sanitary Inspector  or	 anyother officer authorized by the Commissioner in this  behalfthat  there is just cause to believe that any food which  isunsound,  unwholesome  or  unfit for human food	 is  in	 thepossession of any person for the362purpose of being sold or offered or exposed for sale  withinthe limits of the Municipality for such consumption, he	 maygrant a warrant authorizing entry upon the premises of	suchperson and search for and seizure of such articles of  food.Section	 431  by  the 1st subsection (in so  far  as  it  ismaterial)  provides that where any article of  food,  seizedunder  s. 428 is not destroyed by consent under sub-s. 1  ofs.  429	 or  when  an article of food  so  seized  which  isperishable is not dealt with under sub-s. 2 of that section,it  shall  be taken before a Magistrate as soon	 as  may  beafter such seizure.  Sub-s. 2 provides that if it appears tothe Magistrate that any such food is unsound, unwholesome orunfit,	for  human  food,  he shall cause  the	same  to  bedestroyed   or	 to  be	 otherwise  disposed   of   by	 theCommissioners so as not to be capable of being used as humanfood.It  is evident from this resume of the relevant	 legislativeprovisions  that the municipal authorities are	entitled  toenter  upon  and inspect places where articles of  food	 arestored	or prepared for sale.  If the municipal	 authoritiesfind that any article of food stored or prepared for sale isunwholesome or unfit for human food, they may seize them anddestroy	 the same with the written consent of the  owner  orperson in possession, and if such consent is not forthcomingand  the  articles are perishable, destroy  them  under	 theorders	of  a  Magistrate.   But s.  428  is  not  the	onlyprocedure under the Act authorizing seizure of articles.  offood  which  are unwholesome or unfit for human	 food.	 Themunicipal authorities may move a Magistrate for the issue ofa warrant for seizure of articles of food which are unsound,unwholesome or unfit for human food, and under the authorityof the warrant, such articles may be seized.Articles  of  food  seized under s.  428(1)  which  are	 notdisposed  of under s. 429 are required to be taken before  aMagistrate as soon as may be after seizure and under  sub-s.2 of s. 431, the Magistrate is authorized, if it appears  tohim that the articles of food are unsound or unwholesome  orunfit  for  human  food to  order  destruction	or  disposalthereof Evidently, the expression "such" used in sub-s.2  ofs. 431 refers. to the articles of food described in sub.s. 1of363that  section and s. 431(1) only deals with articles  seizedunder  s.  428.	 There is no express provision made  by	 thelegislature  either  in	 s.  431 or  elsewhere	in  the	 Actauthorizing  destruction'  or disposal of articles  of	foodwhich are seized under a warrant issued under s. 430.Counsel	 for the Municipality contends that the	 legislatureintended  that	all articles seized, whether  on  inspectionunder s. 428 or under a warrant issued under s. 430 must  bedealt  with under s. 431 and the High Court was in error  inholding	 that  the  authority of  the  Magistrate  to  orderdestruction  or	 disposal  of  articles	 of  food  could  beexercised  only in respect of articles seized under s.	428.But  the  words	 used in s.  431(2)  clearly  authorize	 theMagistrate  to	order destruction or  disposal	of  articlesseized under s. 428 and not dealt with under s. 429, and  itis  difficult  to  uphold  the	plea  that  the	 legislatureintended, even though it did not so expressly provide,	thatthe articles seized under a warrant issued under s. 430	 mayalso  be dealt with under sub-s. 2 of s. 431.	Counsel	 forthe  Municipality submits that it could not even  have	beenthe  intention	of the legislature that the  Magistrate	 canorder  seizure	of  unwholesome food but  cannot  order	 itsdestruction, though he may order destruction of	 unwholesomearticles of food seized by the officers of the Municipality.It  appears,  however,	that a	person	storing	 unwholesomearticles  of  food may be prosecuted for infraction  of	 theprovisions  of	s.  421	 and in the  course  of	 or  on	 theconclusion of those proceedings, it would certainly be	opento  the Magistrate, having seizin of the complaint, to	passan  appropriate order under the Code of	 Criminal  Procedurefor destruction of the articles seized.	 In view of this, weare  not  prepared  to say that the absence  of	 an  expressprovision relating to the disposal of articles seized  unders. 430 is not deliberate; but even if we are constrained  tohold that there is a lacuna in s. 431, we do not think	thatwe  would be justified contrary to the plain words  used  bythe legislature, in attempting to remedy the same by holdingthat a Magistrate exercising power under sub-s. 2 of s.	 431has authority to364order  destruction  of	articles seized in  pursuance  of  awarrant issued under s. 430.The  argument advanced by counsel for the Municipality	thatthe  seizure was in exercise of the powers under s. 428	 andnot  under  s. 430 has, in our judgment,  no	force.	 Thereport	of the Chairman of the Municipality dated March	 10,1950, makes it abundantly clear that the search warrant	 wasissued	by  the Sub-Divisional Officer in  exercise  of	 hisauthority  under s. 430 of the Bengal Municipal	 Act.	'Anyadmission  by the respondents that the seizure was under  s.428 of the Act in proceedings for resisting the order  whichthe Municipality claimed to obtain against them can haveno value.Section	 428 does not contemplate a seizure of	articles  offood  which  are  unwholesome,	under  the  authority  of  aMagistrate,  and  s. 430 is expressly  the  provision  whichauthorises  a  Magistrate  to  issue  a	 warrant,  for	suchseizure.  The powers under s. 431(2) are expressly  directedto  be	exercised by the Magistrate in respect	of  articlesseized	under  s. 428, and there is nothing  in	 the  formerprovision  which may justify the view that those powers	 canalso  be  exercised in respect of articles  seized  under  awarrant issued under s. 430.  In our opinion, the High Courtwas right in its conclusion.The appeal therefore fails and is dismissed.Appeal dismissed.