PETITIONER:THAKUR BRIJ RAJ SINGH AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THAKUR LAXMAN SINGH AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:08/09/1960BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.DAS, S.K.GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR  149		  1961 SCR  (1) 616ACT:Maintainability	 of suit-Istimrari estate-Adoption by  widowSuit  challenging factum and validity of  adoption-Enactmentproviding for confirmation of adoption by Central Governmentand  conditional  right of suit-Bar of suit-Ajmer  Land	 andRevenue Regulation, 1877 (Regulation 11 of 1877) SS. 23, 24,119.HEADNOTE:After the death of B, the holder of an istimrari estate,  onSeptember  28,	1947, leaving no male issue,  the  Court  ofWards  took  over the estate and issued a notice  under	 theprovisions  of the Ajmer Land and Revenue Regulation,  1877,inviting  claims  to  the estate.   While  the	enquiry	 waspending,  an  application was filed to the effect  that	 theappellant was adopted on February 24, 1948, by the widow  ofB and that steps should be taken for the confirmation of theadoption under the third proviso to S. 23 of the Regulation.On  September  10, 1951, the adoption was confirmed  by	 thePresident   of	India.	 Thereupon  the	  first	  respondentinstituted  a suit for a declaration, inter alia,  that	 theappellant was not adopted as a fact and, in the alternative,the adoption was invalid and illegal.  The appellant in	 hisdefence pleaded that after the confirmation of the  adoptionby  the	 Central Government, which must be  deemed  to	haveconsidered  and	 decided  the factum  and  legality  of	 theadoption, such questions could not be challenged in a  civilcourt  in view of S. 119 read with S. 23 of  the  Regulationand that, therefore, the suit was not maintainable.Held, (S.  K. Das, J., dissenting), (1) that though under S.23  of	the  Ajmer Land and  Revenue  Regulation,  1877,  anadoption made by a widow is not deemed valid until confirmedby  the Central Government, such confirmation cannot  confervalidity  on the adoption if it be otherwise  invalid  underthe  general  law  ; and (2) that under	 S.  119(1)  of	 theRegulation  the only thing done, ordered or decided  by	 theCentral	 Government  which  cannot  be	impeached,  is	 theconfirmation,  but the decision to grant  confirmation	doesnot imply an ouster of the jurisdiction of the civil  courtsto examine the facts and acts of the parties, which precededthe proceedings for confirmation.Accordingly,  the  present suit brought in the	civil  courtseeking	 relief not with reference to the  confirmation	 butfor  a	declaration  that the adoption is  invalid,  is	 notbarred under. SS. 23 and 119 of the Regulation.Per S. K. Das, J.-The confirmation referred to in the  thirdproviso	 to S. 23 of the Regulation necessarily	 involves  adetermination of two facts, viz., (a) whether the widow	 haspower to			    617adopt, and (b) whether she has in fact adopted a son to	 thelate  istimrardar,  as otherwise, divorced  from  these	 twofacts,	the confirmation has no meaning and no	intelligiblecontent.   Since  under	 s. 119 no suit	 lies  to  obtain  adecision  contrary  to the Sin order of confirmation,  on  aproper construction of ss. 23 and 119 of the Regulation, thepresent suit is barred.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION :Civil Appeal No. 8/1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and decree  datedJanuary	 7,  1954,  of the  former  Judicial  Commissioner'sCourt, Ajmer, in Civil First Appeal No. 28 of 1953.A.   V. Viswanatha Sastri, J. B. Dadachanji, Rameshwar	Nathand P. L. Vohra, for the appellants.B. Sen and I. N. Shroff, for the respondents.1960.	September 8. The Judgment of M. Hidayatullah, K.  C.Das Gupta, J. C. Shah and N. Rajagopala Ayyangar, JJ.,	was-delivered  by  Hidayatullah, J. S. K. Das, J.,	delivered  aseparate Judgment.HIDAYATULLAH J.-This appeal, with the special leave of	thisCourt, is against the judgment dated January 7, 1954, of theJudicial Commissioner of Ajmer in Civil First Appeal No.  28of  1953,  by which the judgment of the	 Senior	 SubordinateJudge,	Ajmer, dismissing the suit of the  first  respondentwas reversed.The facts of the case are as follows: One Thakur  BanspradipSingh  was the Istimrardar of Sawar.  He died  on  September28,  1947,  leaving  no male issue either  by  birth  or  byadoption.  After his death, the Court of Wards took over theestate,	 and  a	 notice under s. 24 of the  Ajmer  Land	 andRevenue	 Regulation,  1877 (Regulation No. II of  1877)	 wasissued	inviting  claims to the estate.	 One  Thakur  KhumanSingh, who was the father of Thakur Laxman Singh (respondentNo.  1), Thakur Brij Raj Singh (appellant No. 1) and  ThakurInder  Singh  of Rudh (respondent No. 2)  preferred  claims.While this enquiry was pending, Thakur Khuman Singh died andThakur	Laxman	Singh's name was substituted in	 his  place.During'618the   enquiry,	 the  Deputy  Commissioner   referred	someinterlocutory  matter to the Chief Commissioner, and	 theChief  Commissioner fixed the case for hearing	on  February25, 1948.  On-that date, an application was	filed to theeffect	that  Thakur  Brij Raj Singh  was    her  adopted onFebruary  24, 1948, by Rani Bagheliji, the widow  of  ThakurBanspradip  Singh,  and that the Chief	Commissioner  shouldmove the Governor-General to confirm the adoption under	 thethird proviso to s. 23 of the Regulation.  From the judgmentof the Senior Subordinate Judge, it appears that. the appli-cation	was opposed.  The matter must have been referred  tothe  Governor-General,	because on September 10,  1951,	 theSecretary  to the Government of India, Ministry of Food	 andAgriculture,   conveyed	 to  the  Chief	  Commissioner	 theintimation  that  the  President of  India  was	 pleased  toconfirm the adoption.Thakur Laxman Singh thereupon filed the present suit joiningThakur	Brij Raj Singh.	 Rani Bagheliji of Sawar  and  InderSingh  of  Rudh as defendants.	Two reliefs,  among  others,were claimed.  These were:-"That it may be declared:(a) that Deft No. 1 was not adoptedas  a fact by Deft No. 2 and is not her adopted son  and  inthe alternative, the adoption of Defendant No. 1 by Deft No.2 is invalid and illegal; and(b)  that plaintiff is the nearest kin and heir to late	 Th.Banspradip Singh."The  learned Subordinate Judge did not frame issues  bearingupon these reliefs, but framed a preliminary issue:"Is the suit barred by ss. 24 and 119 of the Ajmer Land	 andRevenue Regulation of 1877 ?"He held that the two sections barred the suit and  dismissedit  with costs.	 On appeal to the Judicial  Commissioner  atAjmer,	the  judgment of the Senior  Subordinate  Judge	 wasreversed.  The learned Judicial Commissioner was then  movedby  Thakur  Brij Raj Singh and Rani Bagheliji  Singh  for  acertificate  under  Arts.  133	(1)  (a)  and  (c)  of	 theConstitution,619which he declined because, in his opinion, his judgment	 wasnot  final.   This Court was then moved for  special  leave,which was granted, and the present appeal has been filed.We  are concerned in this appeal with the interpretation  ofss.  23, 24 and 119 of the Regulation in the   light  of thepleadings  and the nature of the claim.	 Before we  set	 outthese  sections,  we wish to examine  generally	 some  otherprovisions of the Regulation bearing upon this matter.	 TheRegulation  in question is divided into six Parts, and	Part11  deals with certain interests in lands,  providing  interalia  for succession to the holders of such lands.  Part  11is  itself divided into nine sections, and Section  C  dealswith  Istimrari estates.  Section 20 defines an "  Istimrariestate	" as one in respect of which an Istimrari sanad	 hasbeen  granted  by the Chief Commissioner with  the  previoussanction  of  the  Governor-General-in-Council	before	 thepassing of the Regulation.  The section has been amended  bythe  Adaptation Orders subsequently passed, in a manner	 nowvery familiar An " istimrardar " is defined to mean a personto  whom such sanad has been granted or " any  other  personwho  becomes entitled to the istimrari estate in  successionto him as hereinafter provided ". Rules of succession are tobe  found  in  ss.  23 and  24.	  Section  23  provides	 forsuccession  to the estate where there is male issue, and  s.24,  when  there  is  no such  male  issue.   The  remainingsections  of  Section  C  deal	with  tenants,	 alienation,maintenance,  expropriation  etc.,  with which	we  are	 notconcerned.   In	 this way, the succession  to  an  Istimrariestate is governed by ss. 23 and 24, and any dispute arisingin  respect of succession has to be resolved as provided  inthose sections.Section 23 reads as follows:"Succession  to	 estate where there is made  issue  When  anIstimrardar  dies leaving sons or male issue descended	fromhim through males only whether by birth or adoption or	whenafter  the  death of an Istimrardar his widow has  power  toadopt  and adopts a son to him, the istimrari  estate  shalldevolve	 as nearly as may be according to the custom of	 thefamily of the deceased:620Provided-1st,  Rule of Primogeniture.-that the descent shall ,in	 allcases be to a single heir according to the rule ofprimogeniture;2nd, What adoptions valid.-that no adoption "shall be deemedvalid unless it is made by a written document deposited withthe Collector or the Registrar of the district;3rd,  Adoption	by widow.-that no adoption made by  a  widowshall  be  deemed  valid  until	 confirmed  by	the  CentralGovernment."The  contention	 of the rival parties is as  to	 the  inter-pretation  which  is to be placed upon	the  third  proviso,taken  with  the  opening words of the	section.   One	sidecontends  that	after the confirmation of the  adoption,  nodispute	 remains which can go to a Civil Court, in  view  ofthe  bar  contained  in	 s. 119, to  which  we	shall  referpresently.   The  other side contends that in  view  of	 theopening words of s. 24, a question under s. 23 can be  takento a Civil Court for adjudication, and that a. 119 does	 notbar such a suit.  Sections 24 and 119 may now be quoted:" 24.  Succession to estate when there is no male issue:-Anyquestion  as to the right to succeed to an istimrari  estatearising	 in a case not provided for by section 23  shall  bedecided by the Central Government, or by such officer as  itmay appoint in this behalf :Provided  that	the Central Government, if  it	thinks	fit,instead	 of deciding such question itself or appointing	 anyofficer to decide the same, may grant to any person claimingto  succeed  as aforesaid a certificate declaring  that	 thematter is one proper to be determined by a Civil Court.The person to whom such certificate is granted may institutea  suit	 to  establish	his right  in  any  Court  otherwisecompetent  under the law for the time being in force to	 trythe  same, and such Court may, upon the production  of	suchcertificate before it, entertain such suit.119.   Except	as  hereinbefore   expressly   provided,-(a)Proceedings under Regulation not to be in-621peached--everything done, ordered or decided by the  CentralGovernment, State Government or a Revenue officer under thisRegulation, shall be deemed to have been legally and rightlydone, ordered or decided;(b)  Limitation	 of jurisdiction of Civil Courts.-no   CivilCourt shall entertain any suit or application instituted  orpresented  with	 a view to obtaining any order	or  decisionwhich  the  Central Government, the State  Government  or  aRevenue	 Officer is under this Regulation empowered to	makeor pronounce."Before	we  consider  these sections,  it  is  necessary  toexamine	 briefly the nature of the case, because ss. 23	 and24  contemplate different kinds of cases.  The main  reliefswhich have been claimed have been set out by us earlier.  Itwill  be  noticed  that two declaratory	 reliefs  have	beenclaimed.   The first, which is in two parts, is that  ThakurBrij  Raj Singh was not adopted by Rani Baheliji,  and	thatthe  adoption  was invalid and illegal.	 This  is  a  matterwhich  falls within s. 23 and not s. 24.  The second  reliefis  for a declaration that the plaintiff is the nearest	 kinand  heir  to  late  Thakur  Banspradip	 Singh.	  If  ThakurBanspradip  Singh left no male issue either by birth  or  byadoption,  then	 the  matter of succession  is	prima  faciegoverned  by  s.  24.  That section  requires  that  such  adispute	 shall	be decided by the Central Government  or  anofficer	 appointed  in	this behalf  There  is,	 however,  aproviso that the Central Government may, instead of decidingsuch question itself or appointing any officer to decide thesame, grant to any person claiming to succeed as  aforesaid,a certificate declaring that the matter is one proper to  bedetermined  by a Civil Court.  Ex facie, therefore,  if	 thematter fell only within s. 24, the plaintiff could not	havefiled a suit without a certificate as contemplated.  We	 arenot  required to express any opinion upon the merits of	 anycontention that may hereafter be presented to the Courts fortheir  decision, because the matter is at a stage  prior  tothat  when  such pleas can properly be	raised.	  The  thirdrelief	originally  claimed a perpetual	 injunction  againstThakur Brij Raj Singh who,622should	the  question of adoption be decided  against	him,would  have had to fight the original dispute, for  which  anotice	under  s. 24 of the Regulation had  been  issued.  Athird  relief  of  injunction was deleted  When	 an  amendedplaint was filed in the suit.  Section 24  of the Regulation excludes from its  operationcases	falling	 within	 s.  23.   Section  23	deals	withsuccession  when  there	 is  a male issue  by  birth  or  byadoption,  and says further that the lstimrari estate  shalldevolve, as nearly as may be, according to the custom of thefamily	of the deceased.  To find out the rightful heir,  itmay be necessary to examine what the family custom is.	Thatenquiry	 is taken out of s. 24 by the opening words of	thatsection.   No other forum is indicated for the	solution  ofany  dispute  that might arise between rival  claimants,  orwhere  there  is  a  pretender seeking	to  succeed  to	 thedeceased  Istimrardar  as  a male issue.   Such	 a  dispute,should	one  arise,  would  go before  a  Civil	 Court,	 thejurisdiction  of  which, as has been said on more  than	 oneoccasion, is not taken away, unless so expressed by the	 lawor clearly implied by it.  There are no express words in  s.23  excluding the jurisdiction of the Civil Court,  and	 thequestion  to consider is whether there is anything which  byits clear intendment reaches the same result.According  to  the appellants, the third proviso  to  s.  23requires  that	a  widow making an  adoption  should  obtainconfirmation  from  the Central Government,  and  since	 theCentral Government in considering the matter has to reach  adecision on two points, namely' that the widow had the powerto  adopt and had, in fact, adopted a son to  the  deceased,they  must  be	taken to have been decided  by	the  CentralGovernment  when the confirmation of the adoption was  made,and in view of the first clause of s. 119, this is something"  done,  ordered or decided by the  Central  Government  ",which  must  " be deemed to have been  legally	and  rightlydone,  ordered or decided ". Reference is also made  to	 thefact  that when the adoption deed was first brought  to	 thenotice	of the Chief Commissioner and its  confirmation	 wassought, the			    623opposite parties had opposed the request.  It is, therefore,argued	by the appellants that the confirmation having	beengranted, there is no dispute remaining in the case and	nonefor the Civil Court to decide.In this connection, it is interesting to see ss. 33 and	 34,which deal with succession to 'Bhum', which., means land  inrespect	 of  which  a  Bhum sanad  may	have  been  granted.Section 33 reads as follows:" Succession to Bhum where there is male issue.When a Bhumiadies leaving sons, or male issue descended from him  throughmales only, whether by birth or adoption, or when after	 thedeath of a Bhumia his widow has power to adopt and adopts  ason  to him, the Bhum shall devolve according to the  customof the family."Section-34, which corresponds to s. 24, is ipsissima  verba,except	that " Bhum " replaces an " Istimrari estate  ".  Ifss.  33	 and 34 are read together, it cannot  be  questionedthat a matter which falls within s. 33 is excepted from	 theoperation  of  s.  34, and that a suit is  not	affected  byreason of the opening words of the latter section.  Now,  s.23 may be contrasted with s. 33.The difference between s. 23 and s. 33 is only this that  inthe  former section three conditions are mentioned.  By	 thefirst	condition,   the  law  of  primogeniture   is	madeapplicable,  by	 the  second condition, a  deed	 in  writingdeposited  with	 the  Collector	 or  the  Registrar  of	 thedistrict is required, and by the third, confirmation of	 theadoption,  in  the case of an adoption by a  widow,  by	 theCentral	 Government  has to be obtained.   In  our  opinion,matters within s. 23 can also go before a Civil Court in thesame  way  as under s. 33. The last two provisos  to  s.  23create	two conditions which the widow must fulfill,  beforean  adoption by her can ever be considered valid.  An  adop-tion to be valid must comply with the requirements of  Hindulaw,  and  the legislature has added two  other	 conditions.These  conditions  merely say that no adoption	"  shall  bedeemed	valid  " unless they are also  complied	 with.	 Thefirst condition is that the80624adoption  must be by a written document, which is  depositedwith the Collector or the Registrar of the district, and thesecond	is  that  it  must  be	confirmed  by  the   CentralGovernment.   The deposit of the deed, as  required,  cannotvalidate  an otherwise invalid adoption.   The	confirmationalso does not, by itself, confer validity upon the  adoptionif  it be otherwise invalid under the general law, but	onlyfulfill	 a  condition created by the legislature.   If	thatlacuna	remains,  the adoption cannot-be  considered  valid,even though it may be valid from every other point of  view.It  is important to notice that the proviso is expressed  inthe  negative.	It does not say that on confirmation by	 theCentral	 Government,  the  adoption shall be  deemed  to  bevalid.	 While the adoption without confirmation  cannot  bedeemed	 valid,	 an  adoption  confirmed  by   the   CentralGovernment  is	still open to attack on grounds	 other	thanthose connected with the confirmation.The  appellants	 argue	that the validity  of  the  adoptioncannot	be questioned after its confirmation, because of  s.119  of	 the  Regulation.  Section  119	 merely	 leaves	 outanything done, ordered or decided by the Central  Governmentfrom  judicial	scrutiny.  The heading of the  section	veryclearly brings out the import of the first clause, and it isthat  proceedings  under  the  Regulation  are	not  to	  beimpeached.   The only thing done, ordered or decided is	 theconfirmation, and though the confirmation cannot be impeach-ed,  anything  that happens prior to the initiation  of	 theproceedings  for  confirmation is not protected.   When	 theconfirmation   proceedings   start,   the   party    seekingconfirmation  goes  to the Central Government  with  a	factaccompli,  and	though the Central  Government	may  satisfyitself, the decision to grant confirmation does not imply anouster	of the jurisdiction of the Civil Courts	 to  examinethe  facts  and	 the acts of  parties,	which  preceded	 theproceedings for confirmation.  The legislature in s. 23	 hasnot said this either expressly or by necessary	implication.That  the widow must have the power to adopt and  must,	 in,fact, adopt a son are matters which may enter into 625consideration  for  purposes  of  confirmation	;  but	 thevalidity of the adoption is still a matter, which the  CivilCourt can consider, there being no words clear or implied bywhich	the  validity  of  the	adoption   is	conclusivelyestablished.   The  force of the first clause of s.  119  ismerely	to  sustain  the  confirmation	as  something  done,ordered or decided by the Central Government, which must  bedeemed	to  have been legally and rightly done,	 ordered  ordecided.  It has no bearing upon the adoption, because	thatwas  not something done, ordered or decided by	the  CentralGovernment under the Regulation.The second clause of s. 119 which limits the jurisdiction ofthe  Civil  Court in some respects is also  not	 applicable.That  clause  has already been quoted  earlier.	  The  firstissue  in  the suit does not involve the  obtaining  of	 anyorder or decision which the Central Government is, under theRegulation,  empowered	to make or pronounce.	The  CentralGovernment  has confirmed the adoption.	 The suit is not  toobtain confirmation from a Civil Court but to get the  adop-tion  declared	invalid.  The plaintiff in the case  is	 notseeking	 to obtain an order from the Civil Court, which	 theRegulation  empowers  the Central Government to	 make.	 TheCentral	 Government  is	 empowered  to	make  an  order	  ofconfirmation,  but such an order is not being sought in	 thesuit.	What  is  being	 sought is  an	examination  of	 thevalidity of the adoption, and that, as we have already shownabove, is not a matter on which the decision of the  CentralGovernment has been made conclusive.In our opinion, therefore, the suit in respect of the  firstrelief	is within the jurisdiction of the Civil Court.	 Thesecond	relief attracts prima facie s. 24, and	must  complywith its conditions.  The suit has thus to go on. The  orderof  the Judicial Commissioner, in the circumstances  of	 thecase, was correct, and we see no reason to differ from it. In the result, the appeal fails, and will be dismissed withcosts.626S.   K.	 DAS  J.-With  very great regret I have	 come  to  aconclusion  different from that of my learned  ,brethren  onthe issue whether the suit is barred under the provisions ofs.  119	 of  the Ajmer Land  and  Revenue  Regulation,	1877(Regulation no. 11 of 1877), hereinafter referred to as	 theRegulation.  My conclusion is that the suit is barred and  Iproceed	 to  state  shortly the reasons	 for  which  I	havearrived at that conclusion.The  relevant  facts have been stated in the  judgment	justpronounced  on behalf of my learned brethren, and it is	 notnecessary  to  restate	them.	I need	only  add  that	 theplaintiff, now respondent no.  1 before us, bad brought	 thesuit  for a declaration that defendant no. 1 (now  appellantno.  1)	 was not adopted as a fact by defendant no.  2	(nowappellant no. 2); that the adoption even if established as afact was invalid and illegal; that respondent no.  1 was thenearest	 of  kin and heir to Thakur Banspradip Sing  and  assuch  entitled	to succeed to the estate of  Sawar  and	 allproperties  and assets left by the latter ;  that  appellantno.  1	be  restrained	perpetually  from  interfering	 andintermeddling with the estate of Sawar; and that a  receiverbe  appointed  of the estate of Sawar and  all	its  assets,moveable  and  immoveable.   The  plaint  was	subsequentlyamended	 and  the  reliefs  for	 permanent  injunction	 anddeclaration  that respondent no.  1 was entitled to  succeedto  the estate of Sawar were given up, presumably because  asuit for such reliefs would be clearly barred under s. 24 ofthe Regulation.	 What now falls for consideration is whetherthe  suit, even on the amended plaint, is barred  under	 theprovisions of s. 119 read with s. 23 of the Regulation.It is necessary to read now some of the relevant  provisionsof the Regulation.  Section 20 defines an " istimrari estate" and it is not disputed that the estate of Sawar is such anestate.	  Section 21 defines the status of tenants in  an  "istimrari estate ". Section 22 deals with alienation of suchestate, and then comes s. 23 which must be read in full:"  S. 23.  Succession to estate where there is	mate  issue:When an Istimrardar dies leaving sons or male			    627issue descended from him through males only whether by birthor  adoption or when after the death of an  Istimrardar	 hiswidow  has  power  to adopt and adopts a  son  to  him,	 theistimrari estate shall devolve as nearly as may be accordingto the custom of the family of the deceasedProvided-1st,  Rule  of primogeniture-that the descent shall  in	 allcases  be  to  a  single  heir	according  to  the  rule  ofprimogeniture;2nd,  What adoptions valid-that no adoption shall be  deemedvalid unless it is made by a written document deposited withthe Collector or the Registrar ofthe district ;3rd,  Adoption	by widow-that no adoption made	by  a  widowshall  be  deemed  valid  until	 confirmed  by	the  CentralGovernment."Section 24 says:" S. 24.  Succession of estate when there is no male  issue:Any  question  as to the right to succeed  to  an  istimrariestate	arising	 in a case not provided for  by	 section  23shall  be  decided  by the Central Government,	or  by	suchofficer as it may appoint in this behalf.Provided  that	the Central Government, if  it	thinks	fit,instead	 of deciding such question itself or appointing	 anyofficer to decide the same, may grant to any person claimingto  succeed  as aforesaid a certificate declaring  that	 thematter is one proper to be determined by a Civil Court. The  person  to  whom	such  certificate  is  granted	 mayinstitute  a  suit  to	establish his  right  in  any  Courtotherwise  competent  under the law for the  time  being  inforce  to  try	the  same, and	such  Court  may,  upon	 theproduction  of	such certificate before it,  entertain	suchsuit."Skipping over provisions which are not directly relevant forthe  consideration of the point before us, I come to s.	 119which is in these terms:" S. 119.  Except as hereinbefore expressly provided-628(a)  Proceedings  under	 Regulation  not  to  be   impeached:--everything  done,  ordered, or decided  by-	the  CentralGovernment, State Government or a Revenue officer under thisRegulation, shall be deemed to have been legally and rightlydone or ordered or decided;(b)  Limitation	 of  jurisdiction of Civil  Courts-no  CivilCourts shall entertain any suit or application instituted orpresented  with	 a view to obtaining any order	or  decisionwhich  the  Central Government, the State  Government  or  aRevenue	 officer is under this Regulation empowered to	makeor pronounce ".The  question  for decision is whether the  suit  is  barredunder  the  provisions	of s. 119 read with  s.	 23  of	 theRegulation.   The  Senior Subordinate Judge who	 tried	thispreliminary issue held that the suit was barred; the learnedJudicial   Commissioner	 on  appeal  came  to	a   contraryconclusion.  The answer to the question depends on the	truescope  and  effect of the provisions of	 the  two  aforesaidsections.  I proceed on the footing that the general rule oflaw  is that when a legal right and an infringement  thereofare alleged, a cause of action is disclosed and unless thereis a bar to the entertainment of a suit, the ordinary  civilcourts	are  bound to entertain the claim.   The  bar  maybeexpress	  or-by	  necessary  implication.    On	  a   properconstruction, do ss. 23 and 119 of the Regulation raise sucha bar ?In  my view, they do.  The substantive part of s. 23, in  sofar  as	 it is relevant to the	point  under  consideration,refers	to two facts: (1) the widow has power to adopt,	 and(2)  she has in fact adopted a son to the late	istimrardar.On  these two facts being present, s. 23 in its	 substantivepart says that the estate shall devolve as nearly as may  beaccording to the custom of the family of the deceased.	 Thesubstantive  part  is  followed by three  provisos;  we	 areconcerned  only with the third proviso, which says  that  noadoption  made by a widow shall be deemed valid	 until	con-firmed	by  the	 Central  Government.	Such  an  order	  ofconfirmation  was made in the present case.  The proviso  isexpressed  in the form of a double negative, and put in	 theaffirmative form, it means that an			    629adoption made by a widow shall be valid, for the purpose  ofs. 23, when it is confirmed by the Central Government.	Fromone  point of view, it is an additional condition  and	fromanother	  point	 of  view,  it	embraces  within  itself   adetermination  of  the	power to adopt	and  the  factum  ofadoption;  for obvious reasons, there cannot be an order  ofconfirmation in vacuum.	 There must be an adoption before itcan be confirmed.  In my opinion, the third proviso must  beread with and in the context of the substantive provision ofs. 23 in order to appreciate the true meaning and content ofthe  confirmation order.  In confirming the  adoption',	 theCentral	 Government (previously the  Governor-General)	mustconsider  the two preliminary facts, (1) whether  the  widowhas power to adopt and (2) whether she has in fact adopted ason  to the late istimrardar.  The confirmation referred  toin the third proviso necessarily involves a determination ofthese two facts.  Divorced from these two facts the  confir-mation	has  no meaning and no	intelligible  content.	 Thefacts of this case also clearly show that on a notice  unders. 24, several claimants put forward their claims: the widowthen  adopted appellant no.  1 and an application  was	madefor confirmation.  This application was opposed and after anenquiry	 made,	the ]President was pleased  to	confirm	 theadoption.   Respondent	no.   1 moved the  President  for  areconsideration of the order confirming the adoption and wasthen  informed that the President saw no reasons  to  revisethe order of confirmation.If  I  am right in my view that the  order  of	confirmationtakes  in  the two preliminary facts, then s. 119  makes  itquite clear that no suit lies to obtain a decision  contraryto  the order of confirmation.	Under el. (a) of s. 119	 theorder of confirmation involving, as it does in my view,	 thedetermination  of the two preliminary facts shall be  deemedto have been legally and rightly done; and under el. (b)  nosuit shall lie to challenge that determination.	 The words "legally " and " rightly " are important.  The word 'legally'means  that the order is made validly under law;  rightly  'means that it is factually correct and proper.630Therefore,  the critical question is-what does the order  ofconfirmation  referred	to  in the third proviso  to  s.  23involve or embrace?  Does it involve a determination of	 thetwo facts-(1) power to adopt and (2) the factum of  adoption?  If  it does and I  think it does, then s.  119  bars	 thepresent suit.It seems to me, and I say this with great respect, that	 anyother  view will make the third proviso to s. 23  completelypointless.   Sections  23 and 24 cover the entire  field  ofsuccession to an istimrari estate.  Under s. 24 any questionas to the right to succeed to an istimrari estate arising ina  case not provided for by s. 23, shall be decided  by	 theCentral	 Government  subject to the  proviso  thereto.	 Thepower  of the Central Government under s. 24 is	 unfettered.If inspite of an order of confirmation of the adoption by  awidow  made under the third proviso to s. 23 a suit lies  tochallenge  the adoption, what happens when the	civil  courtholds  the adoption to be invalid ? It is conceded that	 theconfirmation  as such cannot be challenged that	 order	mustremain.	  Does the case then come under s. 23 or s. 24 ?  Ifit  comes under s. 24, the Central Government again  has  todecide	 the  question	of  succession.	  If   the   CentralGovernment  does not ignore its own order  of  confirmation,the  result  will  be a stalemate.  Reading ss.	 23  and  24together,  I do not think that it was intended that  inspiteof  the order of confirmation of an adoption by the widow  asuit will lie to challenge the adoption the result of  whichmay be to nullify the effect of the confirmation order.Nor do I think that ss. 33 and 34 relating to Bhum lands arein point.  Section 33 has no proviso like the third  provisoto s. 23, which confirms the adoption by a widow.  The wholematter	is left at large under s. 33, and s. 119 creates  nobar with reference to that section.There  was  some argument before us as to whether  the	suitrelated to properties not part of the istimrari estate.	  Nosuch point appears to have been agitated before the  learnedSubordinate  Judge  and so far as I can make  out  from	 theamended plaint, the suit			    631related to the istimrari estate and the properties  thereof,moveable and immoveable.There was also an application to urge a constitutional pointto  the	 effect that if s. 119 is so construed as to  bar  asuit like the one in the present case, then it is  violativeof Art. 14 of the Constitution.	 This point was not- pressedbefore	us  ; therefore, it is unnecessary  to	explain	 thenature	and  incidents of these istimrari  estates  and	 thereasons for the classification made.  The argument before usproceeded  on  a pure question of construction, and  I	haveaddressed myself to that question only.For  the  reasons  already given, I hold that  on  a  properconstruction  of  ss.  23 and 119  of  the  Regulation,	 thepresent	 suit  is barred.  I would, accordingly,  allow	 theappeal and dismiss the suit with costs.BY  COURT: In accordance with the majority Judgment  of	 theCourt, the appeal is dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.