PETITIONER:MEENAKSHI MILLS, MADURAI	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,MADRAS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:26/09/1956BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1957 AIR   49		  1956 SCR  691ACT:Income-tax-Reference to High Court-Question of law-Inferencefrom  findings of fact, when a question of  law-Test-Profitsearned	by the assessee Company by sale of goods entered  inthe  names of dummy firms and Companies-Benami, Meaning	 of-Finding	 of the status of such firms and Companies,  if	 andwhen  material-Accrual of liability-Manner of  dealing	withthe  profits  by  a  registered	 Company,  if  affects	 itsliability-Apportionment	  of   profits	between	  place	  ofmanufacture  and place of sale, if a question of  law-IndianIncome-tax Act, (XI of 1922), ss. 66(1), 42(1), 42(3).HEADNOTE:A  finding of fact, even when it is an inference from  otherfacts found on evidence, is not a question of law within themeaning of s. 66(1) of the Indian Income Tax Act that can bereferred  to  the  High Court for  its	decision.   Such  aninference  can be a question of law only when the point	 fordetermination  is a mixed question of law and fact.  On	 theprinciples  established by authorities, only such  questionsas  relate to one or other of the following matters  can  bequestions of law under the section:-(1)  the construction of a statute or a document of title;(2)  the legal effect of the facts found where the point fordetermination is a mixed question of law and fact;(3)  a	 finding   of  fact  unsupported  by   evidence	  orunreasonable and perverse in nature.Although  a  finding of fact which is not supported  by	 anyevidence  or is unreasonable and perverse may be  challengedas an error of law, where there is evidence to consider	 thefinding	 of the Tribunal does not cease to be  final  simplybecause	 the Court may be inclined to take a view  differentfrom that of the Tribunal.Great  Western Railway Co. v. Bater, ([1922] 8 T.  C.  231),followed.The  soundness	of a conclusion based on a number  of  factsfound on evidence must be judged by the cumulative effect ofall  the  facts	 and it is altogether a	 wrong	approach  toconsider them individually in an isolated manner in order toexplain them and show that inferences other than those drawnby the Tribunal could be drawn from them.90392Edwards (Inspector of Taxes) v. Bairstow, ([1955] 28  I.T.R.579), referred to.Misappreciation of evidence does not amount to want of	evi-dence and unless the evidence can be shown to be  irrelevantor  inadmissible, the conclusion of the Tribunal  cannot  bechallenged  on	the  ground that it is	based  on  no  legalevidence.The  test as to whether a question is one of fact or one  ofmixed  law  and	 fact is this that while  in  determining  aquestion  of fact no application of any principle of law  isrequired  in finding either the basic facts or	arriving  atthe ultimate conclusion, in a mixed question of law and factthe  ultimate  conclusion has to be drawn  by  applying	 therelevant principles of law to the basic findings.Herbert v. Samuel Fox and Co. Ltd., ([1916] 1 A.C. 405)	 andThe  Queen v. Special Commissioners of Income-tax ([1894]  3T. C. 289), followed.The view expressed in a number of English decisions that  aninference  from	 facts is a question of	 law  has  referencereally to questions of mixed law and fact.Edwards (Inspector of Taxes) v. Bairstow, ([1955] 28  I.T.R.679), Bam ford v Osborne, ([1942] A.C. 14), Thomas Fattorini(Lancashire)  Ltd.  v.	Commissioners  of  Inland   Bevenue,([1942] A.C. 643), and Cameron v. Prendergast, ([1940]	A.C.549), referred to and explained.The  Gramaphone	 and  Typewriter  Company  Ltd.	 v.  Stanley([1908] 2 K.B. 89), held inapplicable.The American Thread Company v. Joyce, ([1911] 6 T.C. 1)	 andThe  American Thread Company v. Joyce, ([1913] 6 T.C.  163),relied on.Nor  do	 the  observations made by the Privy  Council  in  anumber	of  cases lend any support to the  broad  contentionthat  inferences  from	facts  are  always  and	 necessarilyquestions of law.Ram  Gopal v. Shamskhaton, ([1892] L.R. 19 I.A. 228),  NafarChandra Pal v. Shukur ([1918] L.R. 45 I.A. 183), Dhanna	 Malv.  Moti Sagar, ([1927] L.R. 54 I.A. 178), Wali Mohammad  v.Mohammad  Baksh,  (E-1929] L.R. 57 I.A.	 86),  Secretary  ofState  for  India  in  Council	v.  Bameswaram	Devasthanam,([1934] L.R. 61 I.A. 163) and Lakshmidhar Misra v. Bangalal,([1949] L.R. 76 I.A. 271), referred to and explained.Consequently,  in  a  case where, as  in  the  present,	 theAppellate  Tribunal,  on the basis of  certain	findings  offact,	amply  supported  by  the  evidence  and   eminentlyreasonable,  came  to  the  conclusion	that  certain  salesentered in the books of-the assessee Company in the names ofcertain	 intermediaries,  firms and  Companies,	 which	werebrought	 into  existence  by the  assessee  solely  for	 thepurpose of concealing its own profits, and appeared to	havedone  no other business except the sales in  question,	werefictitious and the profits ostensibly earned by those  firmsand Companies were, in fact,693earned	by the assesses which had itself sold the  goods  tothe real purchasers and received the prices, -and should  beadded  to the amounts shown as profits in its  accounts,  noquestion  of law arose for reference under s. 66(1)  of	 theAct.The question of benami is purely a question of fact and	 nota mixed question of law and fact as it does not involve	 theapplication of any legal principle for its determination.Gangadhara Ayyar v. Subramania Sastrigal, (A.I.R. 1949	F.C.88)  and Misrilal v. Surji, (A.I.R. 1950 P.C. 28),  referredto.The  word  'benami'  is	 used  to  denote  two	classes	  oftransactions  which  differ from each other in	their  legalcharacter and incidents.  In one, the usual class, the	saleis genuine and title is transferred but the real  transfereeis  not	 the ostensible transferee but another	and  in	 theother,	where the term is inaccurately applied, the sale  tothe benamidar is fictitious and the title of the  transferoris not intended to pass.  The fundamental difference betweenthese two classes is that while in the former title vests inthe   transferee,  in  the  latter  it	remains	  with	 thetransferor, and when a dispute arises the question as to whopaid the consideration becomes relevant only with respect tothe  former class while in the latter the only	question  iswhether any consideration was paid at all.The point actually in issue in the instant case,  therefore,was  a benami in the second sense and what the Tribunal	 hadto decide was whether any price had at all been paid by	 theintermediaries for the goods ostensibly sold to them by	 theassessee.   It	was not necessary for it to  decide  whetherapart  from the sales the intermediaries had an	 independentexistence of their own, for such a decision could not in anyway affect the liability of the assessee to pay the tax.Smith, Stone and Knight v. Birmingham corporation, ([1939] 4All E.R. 116), distinguished and held inapplicable.Under  the  Indian Income-tax Act liability to pay  the	 taxarises	as soon as the income accrues, whether the  assesseebe an individual or a registered Company, and the manner  inwhich such a Company chooses to deal with the profits-cannotin  any	 way affect its liability.  The	 provisions  of	 theIndian	Companies Act, designed to protect the interests  ofthe share-holders, cannot in any way affect the right of thestate  to levy the tax.	 Although the point involved was  -aquestion  of law appropriate for reference under  S.  66(1),since the assesses had failed to raise it in his applicationunder  that  section, this Court would not  direct  a  freshreference  in exercise of its powers under Art. 136  of	 theConstitution as the point was no longer in doubt in view  ofthe decision of this Court.Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras v. K.B.M.T.T.  ThiagarajaChetty, ([1954] S.C.R. 258), referred to and followed.The  Tribunal  was entirely right in refusing to  refer	 thequestion  as to- whether ss. 42(1) and 42(3) of	 the  IndianIncome-tax Act694applied only to non-residents as was urged on behalf of	 theassessee.   These sections apply both to residents and	non-residents.Commissioner  of Income-tax v. Ahmedbhai Umarbhai  and	Co.,([1950] S.C.R. 335), referred to and followed.The  question  of apportionment of the profits	between	 theplace  of manufacture and the place of sale and	 correctnessof  the	 ratio fixed by the Tribunal is a pure	question  offact and cannot be referred to Court. under s. 66(1) of	 theAct.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 124 to 126of 1954.Appeals	 by special leave from the judgment and order  datedthe  10th  day	of March 1952 of the Madras  High  Court  inC.M.P.	Nos. 10427, 10425 and 10426 of 1951 arising  gut  ofthe order dated the 23rd day of February 1951 of the  IncomeTax   Appellate	  Tribunal,  Madras   Bench   in   ReferenceApplications Nos. 312, 310 and 311 of 1950-51.P.   R.	 Das, B. Sen, V. Sethuraman and S.  Subramaniam	 forthe appellant.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-Generalfor India, Porus A. Mehtaand R. H. Dhebar for P. G. Gokhale for the respondent.1956.	September  26.	 The  judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byVENKATARAMA  AYYAR J.-These appeals arise out of  orders  ofassessment made on the appellant by the Appellate  Tribunal,Madras Bench, for the years of account 1941-42, 1942-43	 and1943-44.   The appellant applied under section 66(1) of	 theIndian	Income-tax Act (hereinafter referred to as the	Act)to refer to the High Court certain questions which accordingto it arose out of the orders; but the Tribunal rejected theapplications.  The appellant then moved the High Court undersection 66(2) of the Act for an order requiring the Tribunalto  refer  those  questions to the court,  but	the  learnedJudges held that the questions on which reference was soughtby the appellant were pure questions of fact, and  dismissedthe applications.  The matter now comes before us by way  ofspecial appeal.695The  facts  material for the purpose of	 these	appeals	 mayshortly	 be  stated.   The  assessee  is  a  public  companyregistered under the Indian Companies Act, and its  ManagingAgents are the firm of Messrs K. R. Thyagaraja Chettiar	 andCo., whose partners are Mr. Thyagaraja Chettiar and his	 twosons.	The company is resident and ordinarily	resident  inBritish	 India,	 its  head office being at  Madurai  in	 theMadras State.  It carries on business in the manufacture andsale  of  yarn,	 and for the purpose  of  that	business  itpurchases  cotton  and occasionally sells it.	Its  profitsarise  for the most part from the sale of yarn and  to	someextent from the re-sale of cotton.  According to the accountbooks  of  the company, its profits from  business  for	 theaccount	 year  1941-42 were Rs. 9,25,364,  for	1942-43	 Rs.24,09,832  and for 1943-44 Rs. 29,13,88 1. In  its  returns,the appellant showed these amounts as its income  chargeableto  tax	 for the respective years.  The Department  did	 notaccept	the  correctness  of the figures  as  shown  in	 theaccounts.   It	contended that the Company had	earned	moreprofits than were disclosed in its accounts, and that it hadcontrived  to  suppress them by resort to  certain  devices.According  to  the  Department, the scheme  evolved  by	 theappellant  for	this purpose was this: Suppose	the  Companysold  25  bales of yarn to X for.  Rs. 50,000  at  the	thenmarket rate and received the full amount of the price.	 Thebooks  of the Company would show neither the sale to  X	 norits receipt of Rs. 50,000.  Instead, there will be an  entryin  its books showing the sale of these very bales to A	 forRs.  20,000  which will be about the cost price and  in	 thebooks of A these goods will be shown as sold by it to X	 forRs.  50,000.   If  the	sale by the Company  to	 A  and	 theconnected  sale	 by A to X were genuine, the  Company  wouldhave made no profit on the sale, whereas A would have made aprofit	of  Rs. 30,000 on it. But in fact,both	these  saleswere  sham transactions; the only sale that took  place	 wasthat by the Company to X and the price actually received  byit was not Rs. 20,000 but Rs. 50,000.  As a result of  thesepaper transactions and manipulations, the696profit	of  Rs. 30,000 made by the Company  was	 suppressed.This process was reversed when the Company purchased cotton.The  appellant	purchased, let us say, 100 bales  of  cottonfrom X for a price of Rs. 5,000, and paid that amount to  X.Neither this purchase from X nor the payment of Rs. 5,000 tohim would appear in the books of the Company.  Instead,	 thebooks  of A will show these goods as purchased by it from  Xfor  Rs. 5,000, and the books of the appellant will  show  apurchase  from	A of those very goods for Rs.  8,000.	Boththese  sales were fictitious, the only real transaction	 wasthe  sale  by X to the Company and the price  actually	paidtherefor  by the Company was only Rs. 5,000.  By the  deviceof  sale by X to A and by A to the Company, the	 cost  pricehad been inflated by Rs. 3,000, and the real profit had beenconcealed  to  that extent.  The accounts  of  the  Company,therefore,  did	 not  reflect the true position	 as  to	 theprofits	 actually made by the appellant.  The names  of	 theintermediaries	who according to the Department	 played	 therole of A in the above illustration-and they will  hereafterbe referred to simply as intermediaries-are given below withthe  amount  of profits made on the sale of  yarn  in  theirnames  and  concealed,	or  the extent	of  the	 cost  priceinflated  on the purchase of cotton from them, as  found  bythe Tribunal:     1941-42     1.	  Meenakshi & Co.     Sale of yarnRs. 35,830     2.	  Sivagami & Co. do.  Rs. 35,443     3.	  Mangayarkarasi & Co.	   do.	Rs. 34,579     4.	  Alagu & Co.	 Purchase of	  cotton    Rs. 34,003     1942-431.   Meenakshi & Co.	 Sale of yarnRs. 53,6352.   Sivagami and Co.	 do.  Rs. 58,1033.   Rukmani & Co. Ltd. & Sale of yarn Rs. 3,97,4674.   Sivagami & Co. Ltd.5.   Rukmani & Co., Ltd.  Purchase of	   cotton	 Rs. 33,533697			  1943-441. Pudukottah&Co.,Ltd. Sale of yarn	Rs. 18,99,488     Do.  Purchase of	  cotton		  Rs. 12,7032. Rukmani & Co., Ltd.	 do.	   Rs. 22,5043. Rajendra Ltd.    Sale of yarn   Rs. 1,06,436The contention of the Department was that the amounts  shownas  profits made by the intermediaries and  mentioned  aboverepresented  in	 fact  the profits actually  earned  by	 theappellant,  and	 that they should be added  to	the  figuresshown  in  its	accounts  as  its  profits.   The  appellantcontested  this position, and maintained that the  state  ofaffairs	 disclosed by its accounts was true, that its  salesin  favour of the intermediaries were genuine, and that,  infact,  little  or  no  profits were  made  by  it  in  thosetransactions,  that  it	 purchased  cotton  only  from	 theintermediaries and, did pay them the amounts as shown in theaccounts.   These  contention were closely examined  by	 theIncome-tax Officer in the first instance, then again by	 theAppellate  Assistant Commissioner on appeal, and finally  bythe Appellate Tribunal, and on an elaborate consideration ofthe  materials	placed	before	them,  they  held  that	 thefollowing facts were established:1.   The sale of yarn by the appellant to the intermediariesmentioned  above was for a price very much below the  marketrate, often for the cost price and some times for even less.No  acceptable explanation had been given for  this  unusualfeature.   The yarn -was in that period a scarce  commodity,and  it	 was  a seller's market.  The amounts  lost  by	 theCompany	 on  these transactions during the three  years,  ifthey were genuine, would far exceed Rs. 25 lakhs.  The salestherefore were not bonafide.2.   The  firms	 of  Meenakshi and  Co.,  Sivagami  and	 Co.Mangayarkarasi	and  Co., and Alagu and Co.,  who  were	 theintermediaries	for the year 1941-42 were all newly  startedfor  the first time in 1941.  The partners of the firm	weremen  of no means, and were all relations of  Mr.  ThyagarajaChettiar, the chief698partner of the Managing Agents firm and a dominant figure incharge of the Company's affairs.  None of them had done	 anybusiness  in yarn before.  The personnel of these firms	 wasdrawn in different combinations from a group of half a dozenpersons	 who  were  all	 the  creatures	 of  Mr.  ThyagarajaChettiar.3.   During   the   year  1942-43,  two	  of   the'   firms,Mangayarkarasi and Co., and Alagu and Co., were closed,	 andtheir  place  was  taken by two	 private  limited  companiescalled Rukmani and Co., Ltd. and Sivagami and Co., Ltd.	 Theshareholders  of these companies were again drawn  from	 thesmall  group of persons who were partners of the firms,	 andthey   were  all  Mr.  Thyagaraja  Chettiar's  men.    Thesecompanies declared no dividends, even though they made	con-siderable profits and the shareholders received no dividendsnor  even  statements of accounts.  In truth,  they  had  nobeneficial interest in the concerns.4.   The business of the intermediaries, both firms and	 thecompanies, consisted solely in the purchase of yarn from theappellant and not from any other person, and the entirety ofthe yarn purchased was sold by them en bloc to	constituentsof the appellant.  Thus, the business of the  intermediarieswas, in fact, only a part of the business carried on by	 theappellant.5.   The   sales  by  the  appellant  in  favour  of   theseintermediaries	 were  of  large  quantities  of  yarn	 andsometimes   on	a  scale  far  higher  than  other   genuinecommercial  transactions, as for example, the sale  of	1850bales  on  17-4-1942 to Rukmani and Co. No  securities	weretaken from the intermediaries for this transaction.   Havingregard to the magnitude of the business, the capital of	 theintermediaries even on paper was negligible.6.   The intermediaries bad most of them no offices of theirown.  Even when they had offices, these were arranged by theofficers of the appellant.  The concerns had no godowns, andtheir staff was meagre and recruited from the employees	 andservants   of  the  appellant.	 Apart	from   signing	 thecontracts, the intermediaries did nothing.6997.   The  profits  earned by the firms were shown  in  theirbooks as cash in their possession, but on a surprise   raidthe authorities were unable to discover any cash with  them.The amount shown as profits in their accounts was, in  fact,in the possession of the appellant Company.8.   The  intermediaries had, in fact, never to pay  to	 theappellant for any of the purchases made by them, the  courseof  the	 business being that they sold the  goods  purchasedfrom the appellant to its old customers, who paid therefor.9.   The intermediaries did not issue any delivery orders onthe  appellant	in  favour of the  customers  to  whom	theyostensibly  sold  the goods, but the goods  were  despatcheddirectly by the appellant to the customers and delivered  tothem.10.  The customers to whom the goods were delivered    bythe appellant as aforesaid paid the full price	  for  whichthey purchased them from the intermediary firms not to thosefirms  with whom alone they had privity of contract  but  tothe appellant direct, and these payments appear as  receiptsin the books of the appellant.11.  After the Limited Companies were started in 1942-43 and1943-44,  the  course of business adopted by  the  appellantshowed a further mystification.	 There was firstly a sale ofcertain	 quantity  of yarn by the appellant  to	 company  A,which sold it in turn to company B which in turn sold it  toC,  which ultimately sold it to the usual customers  of	 theappellant.   In	 spite of the number of	 links	between	 theappellant  and	the  customers,	 the  goods  were   directlydespatched by the former to the latter, who paid by  chequesthe  full  amount  due	by  them  to  their  seller  C,	 whostraightaway endorsed them, in favour of the appellant.	 Theintermediaries	A and B did no act, and took no part in	 theultimate payment of the price by the purchasers.12.  Some  of  the intermediaries, firms and  companies	 hadbeen'  formed in Pudukottah State.  At that time,  that	 Stawas foreign territory, and the profit700earned there would become taxable only if it was remitted toBritish	 India.	  Pudukottah is neither a  cotton  producingarea,  nor was a market for cotton there.  The	object	withwhich  the intermediaries had been set up in Pudukottah	 wasobviously  to  screen portions of the profit earned  by	 theappellant.On these facts, the Tribunal came to the conclusion that thecontentions  of the Department had been	 fully	established,namely-,  that the intermediaries were dummies brought	intoexistence by the appellant for concealing its profits,	thatthe sales standing in their names were sham and	 fictitious,and  that  the, profits ostensibly earned by them  on  thosetransactions  were,  in fact, earned by the  appellant,	 andshould	be  added ,to the amounts shown as  profits  in	 itsaccounts.   The point for decision is whether  there  arisesout  of the order of the Tribunal any question which can  bethe  subject  of reference under section 66(1) of  the	Act.Under that section, it is only a question of law that can bereferred for decision of the court, 'and it is impossible toargue  that the conclusion of the Tribunal is  anything	 butone  of	 fact.	 It  has  been	held  on  the  correspondingprovisions in the English Income-tax statutes that a findingon a question of fact is open to attack as erroneous in	 lawonly  if  it is not supported by any evidence, or if  it  isunreasonable and perverse, but that where there is  evidenceto  consider, I the decision of the Tribunal is	 final	eventhough	the court might not, on the materials, have come  tothe  same conclusion if it had the power to  substitute	 itsown  judgment.	 In Great Western Railway Co.  v.  Bater(1),Lord Atkinson observed:"Their	(Commissioners') determination of questions of	purefact are not to be disturbed, any more than are the findingsof  a  jury,  unless  it should appear	that  there  was  noevidence  before  them upon which they, as  reasonable	men,could  come to the conclusion to which they have  come:	 andthis  even though the Court of Review would on the  evidencehave come to a conclusion entirely different from theirs".(1)  [1922] 8 T.C. 231, 244.S.C.R.	  SUPREME COURT REPORTS			     701There is no need to further elaborate this position, becausethe  law as laid down in these observations is well  settledand  has been adopted in the construction of section  66  ofthe  Act.  Now,	 the determination of the  Tribunal  in	 thepresent proceedings being, one of fact, it is open to reviewby the court only on the ground that it is not supported  byany  evidence  or  that	 it  is	 perverse.   The   appellantunderstood  this  position  quite  correctly,  and  in	 itsapplication under section 66(1) it stated the only  questionwhich  it  wanted the Tribunal to refer to  the	 court	withreference to the present controversy in the following terms:"Whether  on the facts and in the circumstances of the	casethere is any legal evidence to support the finding that	 thefour   firms,	Meenakshi  and	Co.,   Sivagami	  and	Co.,Mangayarkarasi	and Co., and Alagu and Co., were  benamidarsfor  the appellant and that the profits made by these  firmswere profits made by the appellant".This was for the accounting year 1941-42.  The question	 wassimilarly  worded for the subsequent years also except	thatthe  names  of	the intermediaries were	 different  for	 thedifferent years.  The question as framed assumes, it will benoted,	that the Tribunal had held that	 the  intermediarieswere  benamidars for the appellant, and on  this  assumptionwere  grounded	several contentions which  were	 pressed  onbehalf of the appellant.      Whether  this  assumption	 andthe contentions based	 thereon   are	well-founded  is   adifferent matter, and	 will  be considered in due  course.But apart from that, it will be seen that the only ground ofattack	which  was  directed  against  the  finding  of	 theTribunal  was that there was no legal evidence.	 This is  ofcourse a contention open to the appellant; but has that beensubstantiated?	 Mr.  P.  R. Das, learned  counsel  for	 theappellant, did, at the start, put his contention as high  asthat.	But  it became abundantly clear	 when  his  argumentbegan to unfold itself that it amounted to no more than thisthat  the  conclusion drawn by the Tribunal from  the  factsfound by it was unsound and erroneous.	He did not, it	mustbe stated, dispute the facts them-702selves,	 but he took them one after another,  and  contendedthat  they were susceptible of inferences other	 than  thosedrawn  by  the Tribunal.  He next offered  explanations	 forthem  which would 'Make them consistent with the  contentionof  the appellant.  And he finally wound up by	saying	thatthe  conclusion reached by the Tribunal was  not  justified.This clearly is an erroneous approach to the whole question.When  a conclusion has been reached on an appreciation of  anumber of facts established by the evidence, whether that issound  or  not	must be determined not	by  considering	 theweight to be attached to each single fact in isolation,	 butby assessing the cumulative effect of all the facts in theirsetting in the picture as a whole.  In Edwards (Inspector ofTaxes) v. Bairstow(1).	Lord Radcliffe stated:I think that it is rather misleading to speak of there beingno  evidence to support a conclusion when in cases  such  asthese  many  of	 the  facts are	 likely	 to  be	 neutral  inthemselves,   and  only	 to  take  their  colour  from	 thecombination  of	 circumstances in which they  are  found  tooccur".This  furnishes	 the  corrective to the	 course	 adopted  bycounsel for the appellant in his argument.And a more serious objection to it, and one of substance  isthat  it  relates  merely  to  matters	of  appreciation  ofevidence, and does not support the position that there is nolegal  evidence in support of the finding of  the  Tribunal.For  example, one of the facts on which the Tribunal  reliedfor its conclusion was that the partners of the intermediaryfirms  were new to yarn business and came on the  scene	 forthe  first  time in 1941.  The appellant  contends  that  nosignificance  could  be attached to this,  as  the  partnersbelonged  to  the  Nattukkottai Chetti caste,  which  was  atrading community.  But surely this does not render the evi-dence  irrelevant  or  inadmissible.  It  only	affects	 theweight	to be attached to it.' Then again, the Tribunal	 hasmade a point of it that the goods were sold by the appellantto  the	 intermediaries	 for a price far  below	 the  marketprice, sometimes even below the(1)  [1955] 28 I.T.R. 579.703cost  price.  The answer of the appellant to this  was	thatthey  were forward contracts and that the price of  yarn  onthe  dates  of those contracts was low.	  But  the  Tribunaldeclined to accept this explanation for the reason-and that,a good one-that there were no contract registers from  whichthe dates on which the contracts were entered into could  beverified,  and that the contract notes themselves  were	 notserially  numbered.  If this is not a matter of pure  appre-ciation	 of evidence, it is difficult to see what  else	 is.The  Tribunal  also  referred  to the  fact  that  the	onlybusiness  which the intermediaries did was to purchase	yarnfrom the appellant and sell it to its own constituents.	 Theanswer	of the appellant to this was that there was no	needfor the intermediaries to purchase from other  manufacturerswhen  all  their needs were met by the	appellant  and	thatthere was nothing unusual in their selling all their yarn toits  customers. it is unnecessary to say anything about	 theworth  of this contention, for that is a matter	 exclusivelyfor  the Tribunal to assess.  What has now to be  consideredis whether this circumstance on which the Tribunal relied isor is not cogent evidence in support of its conclusion.	  Itwill  be preposterous to contend that it is not.  No  usefulpurpose	 will be served by examining the contentions of	 theappellant  with	 reference to the other facts on  which	 theTribunal  relied for its conclusion.  They are of  the	samepattern as the above, and bear, at their best, on the weightto  be attached to the facts and not to their  relevancy  oradmissibility,	and  there is no question of want  of  legalevidence in support of the conclusion of the Tribunal.Reference should also be made in this connection to  anothercontention  which  wag pressed by Mr. P. R. Das at  a  laterstage  of the argument.	 He contended that the	facts  foundshowed	that the intermediaries were benamidars not for	 theappellant  but for Mr. Thyagarajan Chettiar of the  ManagingAgents	firm.  The significance of this contention  lies  inthis that it grants-and Mr. P. R. Das was quite frank  aboutit -that the facts found did point to the fact that the704intermediaries	 were  dummies,	 leaving   outstanding	 fordecision only the question whether on the evidence they werebenamidars   for  the  appellant  or  for  Mr.	 ThyagarajanChettiar.   That  is  a question which	will  be  separatelyconsidered.   But  it  is manifest  that  this	argument  isdestructive of the contention of the appellant that there isno legal evidence to support the conclusion of the  Tribunalthat the intermediaries were mere dummies.  The result	thenis  that the finding of the Tribunal viewed as one of  fact,which  in  truth  it is supported by evidence,	and  is	 notunreasonable and is not open to attack on any of the groundson  which  such a finding could be assailed in	a  referenceunder section 66(1).It was next contended for the appellant that inference	fromfacts  was a question of law, and that as the conclusion  ofthe  Tribunal that the intermediaries were dummies and	thatthe sales standing in their names were sham and	 fictitious-was  itself an inference from several basic facts  found  byit  was	 a question of law and that the	 appellant  had	 theright under section 66(1) to have the decision of the  courton its correctness, and support for this position was soughtfrom certain observations in Edwards (Inspector of Taxes) v.Bairstow(1),   Bomford	v.  Osborne(2),	  Thomas   Fattorini(Lancashire),  Ltd. v. Commissioners of	 Inland	 Revenue(3),Cameron	 v. Prendergast(" and The Gramophone and  TypewriterCompany,  Ltd. v. Stanley(5).  At the first blush,  it	doessound  somewhat of a contradiction to speak of a finding  offact  as one of law even when that finding is  an  inferencefrom  other facts, the accepted notion being that  questionsof  law	 and  of fact form antithesis  to  each	 other	withspheres	 distinct  and separate.  When	the  Legislature  interms  restricts the power of the court to review  decisionsof  Tribunals to questions of law, it obviously	 intends  toshut  out questions of fact from its jurisdiction.   If	 thecontention of the appellant is(1)  [1955] 28 I.T.R. 579.(2)  [1942] A.C. 14: 1942 I.T.R. Supplt, 27.(3)  [1942] A.C. 643: 24 T.C. 328.(4)  [1940] A.C. 549: 8 I.T.R. Supplt. 75.(5)  [1908] 2 K.B. 89; 5 T.C. 358.correct.,  then	 a  finding  of fact must,  when  it  is  aninference  from	 other facts, be open to  consideration	 notonly  on the ground that it is not supported by evidence  orperverse  but  also on the ground that it is  not  a  properconclusion  to	come to on the facts.  In other	 words,	 thejurisdiction  in  such cases is in the nature of  a  regularappeal	on  the	 correctness  of  the  finding.	  And  as  acontested  assessment-and it is only such that will home  upbefore	the  Tribunal  under section 33	 of  the  Act,	mustinvolve	 disputed  questions of fast, the  determination  ofwhich	must  ultimately  depend  on  findings	on   variouspreliminary  or	 evidentiary  facts,  it  must	result	thatpractically  all orders of assessment of the Tribunal  couldbe  brought  up	 for review before courts.   That  will,  ineffect, be to wipe out the distinction between questions  oflaw  and  questions  of	 fact  and  to	defeat	the   policyunderlying sections 66(1) and 66(2).  One should hesitate toaccept	 a  contention	which  leads  to   consequences	  sostartling,  unless  there are compelling  reasons  therefor.Far  from that being the case, both principle and  authorityare clearly adverse to it.Considering  the  question on principle, when  there  is  a,question  of  fact  to be determined  it  would	 usually  benecessary first to decide disputed facts of a subsidiary  orevidentiary  character,	 and the  ultimate  conclusion	willdepend	on  an appreciation of these facts. Can it  be	said-Chat  a conclusion of fact, pure and simple, ceases  to  bethat when it is in turn a deduction from other facts?	Whatcan  be	 the principle on which a question of  fact  becomestransformed  into  a  question of law when  it	involves  aninference from basic facts?  To take an illustration, let ussuppose	 that  in a suit on a promissory  note	the  defencetaken  is one of denial of execution.  The court finds	thatthe disputed signature is unlike the admitted signatures  ofthe  defendant.	 It also finds that the attesting  witnesseswho  speak  to execution were not, in fact, present  at	 thetime of the alleged execution.	On a consideration of  thesefacts, the court comes to the conclusion that the promissorynote is not genuine,706Here, there are certain facts which are ascertained, and  onthese  facts, a certain conclusion is reached which is	alsoone of fact.  Can it be contended that the finding that	 thepromissory  note is not genuine is one of law, as it  is  aninference  from the primary facts found?  Clearly not.	 Butit is argued against this conclusion that it conflicts	withthe  view  expressed in several English decisions,  some  ofthem of the highest authority, that it is a question of	 lawwhat  inference	 is  to be drawn from  facts.	The  fallacyunderlying  this  contention is that it fails to  take	intoaccount the distinction which exists between a pure questionof  fact and a mixed question of law and fact, and that	 theobservations relied on have reference to the latter and	 notto  the former, which is what we are concerned with in	thiscase.In between the domains occupied respectively by questions offact  and of law, there is a large area in which both  thesequestions  run into each other, forming so to say,  enclaveswithin	 each	other.	 The  questions	  that	 arise	 fordetermination  in that area are known as mixed questions  oflaw   and   fact.   These  questions   involve	 first	 theascertainment  of facts on the evidence adduced and  then  adetermination of the rights of the parties on an applicationof   the  appropriate  principles  of  law  to	 the   factsascertained.   To take an example, the question	 is  whetherthe  defendant	has acquired title to the suit	property  byadverse possession.  It is found on the facts that the	landis  a  vacant site that the defendant is the  owner  of	 theadjacent.  residential	house and that he  has	been  dryinggrains	and  cloth and throwing rubbish on  the	 plot.	 Thefurther	 question that has to be determined is	whether	 theabove facts are sufficient to constitute adverse  possessionin  law.  Is the user continuous or fugitive?  Is it  as  ofright  or  permissive  in  character?	Thus,  for  decidingwhether	  the  defendant  has  acquired	 title	by   adversepossession the court has firstly to find on an	appreciationof  the	 evidence  what	 the facts are.	 So  far,  it  is  aquestion  of fact.  It has then to apply the  principles  oflaw  regarding acquisition of title by	adverse	 possession,and decide whether on the facts707established  by	 the evidence, the requirements of  law	 aresatisfied.  That is a question of law.	The ultimate findingon  the issue must, therefore, be an inference to  be  drawnfrom  the  facts  found, on the application  of	 the  properprinciples  of	law, and it will be correct to say  in	suchcases that an inference from facts is a question of law.  Inthis  respect, mixed questions of law and fact	differ	frompure  questions	 of fact in which  the	final  determinationequally	 with  the finding or ascertainment of	basic  factsdoes  not involve the application of any principle  of	law.The  proposition that an inference from facts is one of	 lawwill be correct in its application to mixed questions of lawand  fact but not to pure questions of fact.  The  followingobservations of Lord Atkinson' in Herbert v. Samuel Fox	 andCo., Ltd.(1) clearly bring out the principle above stated:"....  Your Lordships were pressed with the usual  argument,that  as  the County Court judge though a judge of  law	 andfacts,	is  the sole judge of fact, his findings  cannot  bedisturbed  if there was any evidence before him	 upon  whichhe,  as a reasonable man, could find as he has found.	Thatargument is quite sound if it be applied to pure findings offact.	It  is utterly unsound if it be	 applied  either  tofindings on, pure questions of law or on mixed questions  oflaw and fact .... It is wholly illegitimate, in my view,  incases  such as the present, by finding in the words  of	 thestatute	 to  endeavor  to secure for 'a finding	 on  a	purequestion  of  law, or on a mixed question of law  and  fact,that  unassailability  which  properly	belongs	 only  to  afinding on a question of pure fact".These  observations were made in a case under the  Workmen'sCompensation  Act, 1904.  But the same principles have	beenapplied to revenue cases, and it has consistently been	heldthat  inferences from facts may themselves be inferences  offact  and not of law, and that such inferences are not	opento- review by the court.In the Queen v. Special Commissioners of Income-tax(2) EsherM. R. observed:(1) [1916] 1 A.C. 405, 413.  (2) [1894] 3 T.C. 289, 290-291.92708".....	it seems to me that is a question of fact.  It is  aquestion  of the true inference which  they  (Commissioners)had  to	 draw as a matter of evidence upon the	facts  whichthey had in evidence before them.  But to draw an  inferenceof fact from evidence before you is not a question of law atall.   The inference is a question of fact just as  much  asthe  direct  evidence  of fact, and it would  be  an  appealagainst	 facts, which we are not entitled to  entertain	 andconsequently there can be no Mandamus".A clearer and- more, emphatic refutation of the	 appellant'scontention  cannot be found.  The law is thus summed  up  inSimon's Income Tax, 1952 Edition, Volume I, page 281:"There can be no doubt that it is for the Commissioners, andfor the Commissioners alone, to discover and state the basicor  'primary' facts of the case .... From the primary  factsthe  Commissioners  will  almost always need  to  draw	someinference or inferences by the exercise of reasoning, and itis  this  process of inference which may, according  to	 itsnature, be a finding of law or of fact, or mixed finding  oflaw and fact".The  result of the authorities then is that  inference	fromfacts would be a question of fact or of law according as thepoint  for  determination  is  one of  pure  fact  or  mixedquestion of law and fact.Is there anything in the authorities cited by the  appellantwhich	militates  against  this  conclusion?	In   Edwards(Inspector   of	 Taxes)	 v.  Bairstow(1),  the	 point	 fordetermination  was whether the transaction entered  into  bythe  assessee was an adventure in the nature of trade.	 Thefinding	 of the Commissioner was that it was not.  But	thatwas  reversed  by the House of Lords who held  that  on	 thefacts found it was an adventure in the nature of trade.	 Thevery  expression "in the nature of trade" requires that	 theadventure should possess certain elements which in law wouldinvest it with the characteristics of a trade.	The questionis,  therefore,	 one  of  a mixed law  and  fact.   That  isprecisely how the matter is dealt with by(1)  [1965] 28 I.T.R. 579.709Lord Radcliffe.	 He observes at page 589:"My Lords, I think that it is a question of law what meaningis  to be given to the words of the Income Tax	Act  'trade,manufacture,  adventure or concern in the nature  of  trade'and  for  that matter what constitutes	'profits  or  gains'arising from it.  Here we have a statutory phrase  involvinga  charge of tax and it is for the courts to  interpret	 itsmeaning having regard to the context in which it occurs	 andto the principles which they bring to bear upon the  meaningof 'income' ".Lord  Somervell	 agreed with the opinion expressed  by	LordRadcliffe.  The Lord Chancellor, dealing with this aspect ofthe  case, referred to the decisions in Cooper v.  Stubbs(1)and Jones v. Leeming(2), where it had been held that whethertrading	 activities amounted to carrying on business  was  apure question of fact, and observed at page 587:"Yet it must be clear that to say that such an inference  isone of fact postulates that the character of that act  whichis inferred is a matter of fact.  To say that a	 transactionis  or is not an adventure in the nature of trade is to	 saythat it has or has not the characteristics which distinguishsuch  an  adventure.  But it; is a question of law,  not  offact,  what  are those characteristics, or in  other  words,what the statutory language means-".In the view of Viscount Simonds, therefore, the question wasone  of	 mixed law and fact.  But be was  also	prepared  todecide	the  case on the footing that it was a	question  offact and observed at pp. 585-586:"This  appeal  must be allowed and the assessments  must  beconfirmed,  - For it is universally conceded that though  itis  a pure finding of fact, it may be set aside	 on  groundswhich  have  been stated in various ways but are,  I  think,fairly summarised by saying that the court should take	thatcourse	if  it	appears that the  Commissioners	 have  actedwithout any evidence or upon a view of the facts which couldnot reasonably be entertained".That is to say, even if the question was one of pure(1) [1925] 2 K.B. 753.		  (2) [1930] A.C. 415.710fact, the finding of the Commissioners was liable to be	 setaside on the ground that there was no evidence in support ofit  or	that on the evidence it was perverse.	What  is  ofsignificance  in  this is that the Lord	 Chancellor  dealingwith the question whether the adventure was in the nature oftrade as one of fact does not hold that the ultimate findingwas one of law by reason of its being one of inference	fromfacts  but treats it only as a finding of fact and  open  toattack	as such.  This decision, therefore, is no  authorityfor the position that where a findig is given on a  questionof fact based upon an inference from facts, that is always aquestion  of  law,  and the following  observation  of	LordRadcliffe at page 592 is directly against it:"I  do	not  think  that inferences  from  other  facts	 areincapable  of  being themselves findings  of  fact  althoughthere is value in the distinction between primary facts	 andinferences drawn from them".In  Bomford v. Osborne(1), the Commissioners had  held	that230  acres  out	 of a plot of 550  acres  belonging  to	 theassessee  should be separately assessed as "gardens for	 thesale of produce", while the remaining lands should be  taxedon  the basis of their annual value.  The assessee  disputedthe correctness of this finding, and contended that the	 230acres in question were not gardens as contemplated by Rule 8of  Schedule  B of the Income-tax Act, 1918.  The  House  ofLords  agreed  with  this  contention,	and  discharged	 theassessment.  One of the points raised on behalf of the Crownwas that the finding of the Commissioner was one of fact andwas  therefor& final.  This contention was repelled  on	 theground that whether the lands were gardens within rule 8 wasnot a pure question of fact.  The following observations  inthe speech of Lord Wright at page 38 may be quoted:"It  has  been strenuously contended as a main	argument  onbehalf of the Crown that the questions here to be  discussedare questions of 'fact and degree'.  But, in my opinion, thetrue  effect of the facts found cannot be ascertained  untilthe true construction ofr.   8 has been examined and its true application to(1) [1942] A.C. 14: [1942] I.T.R. Supplt. 27.711the facts ascertained.	There are, in addition to incidentalquestions,  two main questions of law, namely, what  is	 themeaning of "gardens for the sale of produce" and how is thatmeaning to be applied to acreage which is worked as a singlemixed farm in one unit".Thus,  the  basis  of the judgment  was	 that  the  questiondecided by the Commissioners was one of mixed law and  fact,and  that  their  determination was open to  review  by	 thecourts.	  There	 is  nothing in this  decision	again  whichsupports  the contention of the appellant that	findings  onquestions of fact based on inference from other facts shouldbe  regarded  as questions of law.  On the other  hand,	 thefollowing  observations	 of Viscount Simon at  page  22	 arereally against this contention:"No  doubt,  there are many cases  in  which  Commissioners,having bad proved or admitted before them a series of facts,may   deduce   therefrom  further  conclusions	 which	 arethemselves  conclusions of pure fact, but in such cases	 thedetermination  in point of law is that the facts  proved  oradmitted  provide  evidence to	support	 the  Commissioner'sconclusions".	These  observations clearly  establish	thatinferences   from  facts  found	 need  not  necessarily	  beinferences  of law but may be conclusions of fact, and	suchconclusions  of fact could be attacked on grounds  on  whichfindings  of  fact could be attacked, namely,  there  is  noevidence  to support them as for example, if the  conclusiondoes  not follow even if all the facts found  are  accepted.That  does  not	 certainly support  the	 contention  of	 theappellant.In  Thomas  Fattorini (Lancashire), Ltd. v.  Inland  RevenueCommissioners(1),  the	point for decision was	whether	 theappellant company bad failed to declare within a  reasonabletime dividend out of the profits earned by it, in which caseunder  section	21 of the Finance Act, 1922  the  income  isdeemed to be income of the members and chargeable to  super-tax.   The  finding  of	 the  Board  of	 Referees  was	thatdistribution   of  profits  had	 not  been  made  within   areasonable time,(1)  [1942] A.C. 643; 24 T.C. 328.712but their decision was reversed by the House of Lord& on theground	that there was no evidence in support of it.   Thus,there  is  nothing  in the decision  itself  which  has	 anybearing on the present controversy.  The appellant, however,relies	on the following observations in the speech of	LordPorter at page 667:"I.... think that the final conclusion is not a fact but  aninference   from  facts	 previously  set  out,	 and   that,therefore, that conclusion is not binding upon the  tribunalto  which  the case is referred unless it appears  from	 theprevious findings that there are facts which support it.  Inthe present case I cannot find such support."In  the	 context, what these remarks mean is that  when	 thefinal  conclusion is one of fact and is itself an  inferencefrom  other facts, it is open to attack on the	ground	thatthe  basic  facts themselves do not constitute	evidence  insupport	 of the final conclusion -a position which does	 notarise here.Then there is the observation of Lord Maugham in Cameron  v.Prenderga8t(1)	that  "inferences from facts stated  by	 theCommissioners  are matters of law and can be  questioned  onappeal".   Does this remark mean that inferences from  factsfound  are  questions  of law in all  cases,  whether  theseinferences are inferences of facts or of law?  There.  beingnothing	 in  the  observation to throw	any  light  on	thisquestion, we must examine the facts of the case to ascertainits  true  import.   There,  the assessee  who	had  been  aDirector in a building company for 44 years wanted to resignhis office, but be was persuaded to continue as an  advisoryDirector on a reduced remuneration and a payment of C45,000,and  this arrangement was embodied in a deed.  The  questionwas  whether these amounts were taxable as  profits  arisingfrom  an  office.   The	 Commissioners	had  held  that	 theconsideration  for  the	 payments was  the  promise  of	 theassessee  not to resign his office, and that therefore	theywere  not  profits arising from any office.   The  House  oflords  held, affirming the judgment of the majority  of	 theCourt of Appeal that the amounts were paid to(1)  [1940] A.C. 549: 8 I.T.R. Supplt. 75, 81.713the  assessee  in  consideration  of  his  continuing  as  aDirector, and were therefore taxable.  Thus, the only  pointfor determination in the case was as to the character of thepayments  made	to the appellant, and that depended  on	 thetrue  interpretation  to be put on the agreement,  and	thatreally was a question of law.  There was no question of	 theCommissioners  recording findings on primary facts and	thenof drawing further inferences therefrom.  The dictum  reliedon by the appellant therefore could have no reference to thequestion  now  under  consideration.  It  is  possible	thathaving regard to the observations follow'ing the one  quotedabove  that "the same remark is true as to the	constructionof  documents", what was meant to be conveyed was  that	 thelegal effect of facts stated in the deed of agreement was  aquestion  of  law.   In the context,  it  is  impossible  toconstrue  the observation as an authority in support of	 thepresent	 contention  of	 the appellant,	 and  it  should  bementioned that there is nothing about this in take judgmentsof the other members of the court.One other argument advanced on behalf of the appellant	mustnow   be  considered.	This  is  based	 on  the   followingobservations  of  Cozens-Hardy M.R. in	The  Gramophone	 andTypewriter Ltd. v. Stanley(1):"It  is	 undoubtedly true that if the Commissioners  find  afact, it is not open to this court to question that  findingunless there is no evidence to support it.  If, however, theCommissioners state the evidence which was before them,	 andadd  that upon such evidence they hold that certain  resultsfollow,	 I  think  it  is open,	 and  was  intended  by	 theCommissioners  that it should be open, to the court  to	 saywhether the evidence justified what the Commissioners  held.I  am satisfied that the case stated by-  the  Commissionersfalls under the latter head".On.  these observations, the argument of the  appellant	 wasthat  whenever	the Tribunal found certain basic  facts	 andstated its conclusions thereon,, its determination was	opento review by court, and that it was immaterial whether theseconclusions were of fact or(1)  (1908) 2 K.B. 89: 5 T.C. 358.714of law.	 The answer to this contention is furnished -by	 thedecision in The American Thread Company v. Joyce(1), whereinthe  true  scope  of  these  observations  has	been   fullyconsidered and authoritatively settled.	 There, Hamilton  J.pointed out that what the observations meant was Chat if theCommissioners  merely  stated certain findings of  fact	 andwhile  expressing what according to them was  their  effect,did not intend that the expression should be taken as  theirfinding	 thereon,  then	 it  must be  taken  that  they	 hadreferred  to  the decision of the court the question  as  towhat inference should be drawn from the basic findings,	 butthat  if they had not merely stated the basic  findings	 buthad  also  stated their conclusions thereon  intending	thatthey  should be their determinations on the  question,	thenthose  determinations,	if  conclusions of  fact,  would  bebinding	 on the court and that the assessee would then	havebeen stated out of court.  Dealing with the statement of theCommissioners  which  was under reference  before  him,	 thelearned Judge observed at page 22:"It  appears to me, therefore, that it is quite	 clear	thatthe  Commissioners  have done this: they have  stated  theirdetermination,	with which the appellants are  dissatisfied;they  have  stated  the facts as found upon  which  they  sodetermined.   The  facts as found they have  stated  in	 thefirst part of paragraph 17, and then they have stated in theprevious  paragraphs the materials on which they  so  found,and in so doing they have invited, and only invited, the de-termination  in point of law of the question  whether  therewas evidence upon which they could reasonably arrive at	 theconclusion at which they did arrive".The decision in.  The Gramophone and Typewriter Company Ltd.v. Stanley(2) is thus really not a pronouncement on what  isa question of law but on what construction was to be put  onthe  statement	of the Commissioners which  was	 before	 thecourt.	 It should be added that the situation envisaged  byCozens-HardyM.   R. in The Gramophone and Typewriter Company(1) [1911] 6 T.C. 1.(2) [1908] 2 K.B. 89: 5 T.C, 358.715Ltd. v. Stanley(1) cannot arise under section 66 of the Act,as  the Tribunal is itself charged with the duty  to  decidewhether	 a question of law arises out of its order,  and  itcannot therefore merely pass it on for the determination  ofthe court.The decision in The American Thread Company v. Joyce (2) wastaken  on  appeal and confirmed by the Court of	 Appeal,  ofwhich  it may be noted two of the members, Fletcher  MoultonL.J.  and Buckley L.J. were. parties to the decision in	 TheGramophone  and Typewriter Company Ltd. v.  Stanley(1),	 andthey  expressed themselves in agreement with the view  takenby  Hamilton J. There was a further appeal to the  House  ofLords, which in confirming the decision of the courts  belowexpressly  approved of the observations of Hamilton  J.	 TheEarl of Halsbury observed:"It  is	 enough to say that they  (the	Commissioners)	havefound  it and that there was evidence upon which they  mightfind  it, and if they did find it and if there was  evidenceupon  which  they  might find it, there is  no	question  ofappeal	here  at  all  .... I  should  have  been  contentedabsolutely  to say that I entirely agree with every word  ofMr.  Justice  Hamilton's  iudgment".  (The  American  ThreadCompany v. Joyce).This  decision is particularly important as the	 finding  inthat  case  was	 itself, as appears  from  the	judgment  ofHamilton   J.,	 an   inference	 from	facts	found	and,nevertheless, it was decided that it was a question of	facton which the finding of the Commissioners was final.I must now refer to another catena of cases relied on by theappellant in support of its contention that inferences	fromfacts are questions of law.  They are decisions of the PrivyCouncil as to when a court of second appeal having authorityto  review  decisions  of the lower  appellate	court  on  aquestion  of law could interfere with its findings of  fact.In Ramgopal v. Shamskhaton(4), one Daud Rao was sought to bemade liable on a mortgage to which he was not a(1)  [1908] 2 K. B. 89; 5 T. C. 358.(3)  [1913] 6 T. C. 163, 165.93(2)  [1911] 6 T. C. 1.(4)  [1891]-921 19 I. A. 228,716party  on  the ground that be had knowledge of	it  and	 hadaccepted  it.	In  holding  that the  acts  found  did	 notestablish  any	ground	of  liability,	Sir  Richard   Couchobserved:"A  finding that the bond shewed that the mortgage deed	 wasaccepted  by the defendant, as binding obligation upon	him,would  be an inference of law, an inference which, in  theirLordships'  opinion is not a just one from the	facts  whichthe  Commissioner held to be proved.  The knowledge  of	 themortgage  and  saying  that  the  money	 due  upon  it	 wasrepayable, do not amount to an agreement by him to be  boundbyit. As the mortgage did not purport to be made in any	 wayon behalf of Daud Rao it was not a case for ratification.  Anew agreement was necessary to bind him".Then, after referring to the observations of Lord Watson  inRamratan  Sukal v. Mussumat Nandu(1) that "it has  now	beenconclusively settled that the third Court, which was in thiscase   the  court  of  the  Judicial  Commissioner,   cannotentertain an appeal upon any question as to the soundness offindings of' fact by the second court; if there is  evidenceto be considered, the decision of the second Court,  howeverunsatisfactory	it might be if examined, must stand  final",Sir Richard Couch continued:"........  the present case does not come within that  rule.The facts found need not be questioned.	 It is the soundnessof the conclusion from them that is in question, and this isa matter of law".It  is	this last observation that is relied  upon  for	 theappellant.  But	 when  read along with	the  other  passagesquoted above, it clearly recognises the distinction  betweenfindings of pure questions of fact and of mixed question  oflaw and fact.In,   Nafar  Chandra  Pal  v.  Shukur(2),  Lord	  Buckmasterobserved:"Questions  of	law and of fact are sometimes  difficult  todisentangle.   The proper legal effect of a proved  fact  isessentially  a question of law, so also is the	question  ofadmissibility of evidence and the(1) [1891-92] 19 I.A. 1.(2) [1917-18] 45 I.A. 183, 187.717question  of  whether any evidence has been offered  by	 oneside  or  the other; but the question whether the  fact	 hasbeen proved, when evidence for and against has been properlyadmitted, is necessarily a pure question of fact".The expression "the proper legal effect of a proved fact" isitself indicative that inferences from facts are not all  ofthem questions of law open to consideration in second appealbut  only those which involve the application of some  legalprinciple.   The actual decision in that case was  that	 thequestion  as  to the character of land was one of  fact	 notopen to consideration in second appeal.In  Dhanna Mal v. Motisagar(1), the point for  determinationwas whether the facts proved were sufficient to establish  aright of permanent occupancy.  Discussing how far a  findingon  that  question  by the lower appellate  court  could  bedisturbed  in  second appeal, Lord Blanesburgh	observed  atpage 185:"It  is clear, however, that the proper effect of  a  provedfact  is  a  question of law, and  the	question  whether  atenancy is permanent or precarious seems to them, in a	caselike the present, to be a legal inference from facts and notitself a question of fact.  The High Court has described thequestion  here as a mixed question of law and fact-a  phrasenot  unhappy if it carries with it the warning that,  in  sofar  as	 it depends upon fact, the finding of the  court  offirst appeal must be accepted".These  observations again emphasise the distinction  betweeninferences  which  are	themselves  questions  of  fact	 andinferences on mixed questions of law and fact.This  question was the subject of further  consideration  bythe  Privy  Council in Wali Mohammad v.	 Mohammad  Baksh(2),Secretary  of  State  for India	 in  Council  v.  RameswaramDevasthanam(3)	and Lakshmidhar Misra v.  Rangalal(1).	 In,Wali Mohammad v. Mohammad Baksh(2), Sir Benod Mitter(1) [1927] L.R. 54 I.A. 178.(2) [1929] L.R. 57 I.A 86:59M.L.J. 53.(3) [1984] L.R. 61 I.A. 163:  66 M.L.J. 595.(4) [1949] L.R. 76 I.A. 271:  1951 M.L.J. 100.718exhaustively  reviewed the authorities on the questions	 andstated the law in the following terms:"No  doubt questions of law and fact are often difficult  todisentangle,  but  the following  propositions	are  clearlyestablished:(1)  There  is no jurisdiction to entertain a second  appealon  the ground of erroneous finding of facts, however  grossthe  error may seem to be. (See Musumat Durga  Choudrain  v.Jawahir Singh Choudhri(1)).(2)  The proper legal effect of a proved fact is essentiallya question of law, but the question whether a fact has	beenproved	when  evidence	for and against	 has  been  properlyadmitted  is necessarily a pure question of fact. (Nafar  v.Shukur(2)).(3)  Where  the	 question to be decided is one of  fact,  itdoes  not involve an issue of. law merely because  documentswhich were not instruments of title or otherwise the  directfoundation  of	rights but were really	historical  matters,have  to  be  construed	 for the  purpose  of  deciding	 thequestion.   (See  Midnapur  Zamindary  Co.  v.	Uma   CharanMandal(3)).(4)  A	second appeal would not lie because some portion  ofthe  evidence might be contained in a document or  documentsand  the first appellate court had made a mistake as to	 itsmeaning. (See Nowbutt Singh v.	   Chutter Dharee Singh(4)).Great  reliance	 was  placed by the  appellants	 counsel  onDhanna	Mal  v.	 Moti Sagar(5) but there,  the	tenancy	 wasadmitted  and the question was whether it was  permanent  ornot, and the solution of it depended upon what was the legalinference to be drawn from proved facts, or in other  words,the  question  was  what was the  legal	 effect.  of  provedfacts".In  Secretary  of State for India in Council  v.  RameswaramDevasthanam(6) where a finding of fact reached by the  lowerappellate  court  on  a	 consideration	of  the	 documentaryevidence  was reversed in second appeal, Sir John Wallis  inholding	 that  the High Court had, in interfering  with	 thefinding of(1) [1889-90] 17 I.A. 122.  (2) [1917-18) 45 I.A. 183.(3)  [1918] 45 M.L.T. 663 P.C.; 29 C.W.N. 131.	(4) 19	W.R.222.(5) [1927] L.R. 54 I.A. 178.(6) [1934] L.R. 61 I.A. 163.719fact,  acted  in  excess of its powers	under  -section	 100observed-"The question is mainly one of fact, and it is well  settledthat  under section 100 of the Code of Civil  Procedure	 theHigh  Court has no jurisdiction to reverse the	findings  offact  arrived  at  by  the  lower  appellate  court  howevererroneous,  unless they are vitiated by some error  of	law.Subsequently  to the date of the judgments under appeal	 theBoard  has had occasion to emphasis the fact that this	ruleis,  equally applicable to cases such as this in  which	 thefindings   of  the  lower  appellate  court  are  based	  oninferences drawn from the documents exhibited in evidence".If  an inference from documents exhibited in evidence  is  aquestion  of  fact,  an inference from facts  found  on	 theevidence must equally be so.There  is one more decision of the Privy Council bearing  onthis  question.	  In Lakshmidhar Misra v.  Rangalal(1),	 thequestion was whether the finding of the Subordinate Judge inappeal that there had been a dedication of certain lands  ascremation  ground could be reversed in second  appeal.	 In'holding	 that  the finding was open to review  by  the	HighCourt, Lord Radcliffe observed:"Issue	No. 5, (whether the land was a cremation ground)  isessentially  a	mixed question of law and fact.	  There	 arefindings of fact by the Subordinate Judge which must  indeedbe  accepted as binding in any consideration of this  matteron further appeal: but his actual conclusion that there	 hadbeen a dedication or lost grant is more properly regarded asa  proposition	of law derived from those facts	 than  as  afinding of fact itself".These  observations lend no support to the broad  contentionof the appellant that inferences from facts are of necessityand always questions of law.We  have discussed the authorities at great length, as	someof  the	 observations  contained therein  appear,  at  firstsight, to render plausible the contention of the  appellant,and it seems desirable that the true(1)  [1949] L.R. 76 I.A. 271,720meaning	 of  those observations Should	be  clarified,	lesterror  and  misconception  should  embarrass  and  fog	 theadministration	of  law.  The position that emerges  on	 theauthorities may thus be summed up:(1)When	 the point -for determination is a pure question  oflaw such as construction of a statute or document of  title,the  decision  of the Tribunal is open to reference  to	 thecourt under section 66(1).(2)When	 the point for determination is a mixed question  oflaw and fact; while the finding of the Tribunal on the factsfound is final its decision as to the legal effect of  thosefinding	 is a question of law which can be reviewed  by	 thecourt.(3)  A finding on a question of fact is open to attack,	  undersection 66(1) as erroneous in law when there is no  evidenceto support it or if it is perverse.(4)  When  the finding is one of fact, the fact that  it  isitself	in inference from other basic facts will  not  alterits character as one of fact.Applying  these principles, admittedly there is no  questionhere of construction of any statutory provision or  documentof -title.  The issues which arise for determination whetherthe sales entered in the books of the appellant in the namesof  the intermediaries were genuine and if not, to whom	 thegoods  were  sold and for what price are  all  questions  offact.  Their determination does not involve the	 applicationof  legal principles to facts established in  the  evidence.The findings of the Tribunal are amply supported by evidenceand  are eminently reasonable. It should, therefore,  followthat  there  is no question which could be referred  to	 thecourt under section 66(1).it  was argued for the appellant that what the Tribunal	 hadfound was that the intermediaries, firms and companies	werebenamidars for the appellant, that a question of benami	 wasone  of mixed law and fact, and that accordingly  a  findingthereon	 was  open to review under section  66(1).   Whetherthat  is  a correct reading of what the Tribunal  bad  foundwill  presently	 be considered.	 Assuming that such  is	 thefinding,  what is the ground for holding that a	 finding  ofbenami is one of mixed law and fact?  The only basis721for such a contention is that the finding that a transactionis  benami  is a matter of inference  from  various  primarybasic  facts such as who paid the consideration, who  is  inenjoyment  of the properties and the like.  But that is	 notsufficient  to make the question one of mixed law  and	factunless, as already stated, there are legal principles to  beapplied to the basic findings before the ultimate conclusionis  drawn.  But no such principles arise for application  tothe  determination  of	the question of.  benami,  which  ispurely	one of fact, and none has been suggested by the	 ap-pellant.In  Gangadara Ayyar v. Subramania Sastrigal(1), the  FederalCourt had to consider whether concurrent findings of  benamiby the courts below could be reviewed by it, and it was heldthat it could not be clone as the practice of the court	 wasnot  to	 interfere with concurrent findings of	fact  unlessthere were exceptional grounds therefor and that there	werenone such in that case.	 It should be noted that the findingof  benami  in	that case was a	 matter	 of  inference	fromprimary	 facts found which are set out at page 573.  But  itwas nevertheless held to be a question of fact.	 In Misrilalv. Surji(2), it was held by the Privy Council that a findingof  benami  was	 one of fact not open to  attack  in  secondappeal.	  This contention of the appellant must	 accordinglybe rejected.It was next contended that the finding of the Tribunal	thatthe intermediaries, firms and companies were benamidars. forthe appellant was bad for the following reasons:(1)It had been reached without due consideration of  severalmatters relevant for such a determination.(2)The	finding	 of benami in so far as it  related  to	 thecompanies was bad for not considering the tests laid down inSmith,	Stone  and Knight v.  Birmingham  Corporation(3)  asmaterial for a decision on the point.(1)  [1949] 1 M.L.J. 568: A.I.R. 1949 F.C. 88(2)  A.I.R. 1950 P.C. 28: [1950] 1 M.L.J. 294.(3)  [1939] 4 A.E.R. 116.722(3)  On	 the facts found,, the proper conclusion to come  towas  that  the intermediaries were benamidars  not  for	 theappellant  but for Mr. Thyagarajan Chettiar of the  ManagingAgents firm.These  contentions will now be considered.  As	regards	 thefirst  contention, the argument on behalf of  the  appellantwas  this:-  An	 important test for  determining  whether  atransaction   is  benami  is  to  discover  the	 source	  ofconsideration  for  the	 transfer.   When  the	question  iswhether	 firms	and  companies are  benamidars	for  anotherperson,	 what has to be found is whether it was	 the  latterwho  found  the capital of those concerns.   The  firms	 andcompanies  had according to their books their  own  capital,and  there is no finding that the appellant  subscribed	 it.Another important test of benami is to find who has been  inenjoyment  of the benefits of the transaction.	It  has	 notbeen  shown that the profits of the intermediaries had	beenutilised by the appellant.  Therefore, the finding that	 theintermediaries	were benamidars of the appellant  could	 notstand.Now,  the  assumption underlying this argument is  that	 theTribunal had found in its order that the intermediaries werebenamidars for the appellant, but there is no basis for thisin  the order.	In this connection, it is necessary to	notethat  the  word 'benami' is used to denote  two	 classes  oftransactions  which  differ from each other in	their  legalcharacter  and	incidents.   In one sense,  it	signifies  atransaction  which  is	real, as for example  when  A  sellsproperties  to	B  but	the sale  deed	mentions  X  as	 the-purchaser.   Here the sale itself is genuine, but the	realpurchaser is B, X being his benamidar.	This is the class oftransactions  which  is usually termed as benami.   But	 theword  'benami' is also occasionally used, perhaps not  quiteaccurately, to refer to a sham transaction, as for  example,when A purports to sell his property to B without  intendingthat  his title should cease or pass to B.  The	 fundamentaldifference  between  these, two classes of  transactions  isthat  whereas in the former there is an	 operative  transferresulting in the vesting of title in the transferee, in	 thelatter there is none723such,	the  transferor	 continuing  to	 retain	 the   titlenotwithstanding	 the execution of the transfer deed.  It  isonly  in  the  former  class  of  cases	 that  it  would  benecessary,  when a dispute arises as to whether	 the  personnamed  in the deed is the real transferee or B,	 to  enquireinto  the question as to who paid the consideration for	 thetransfer, X or B. But in the latter class of cases, when thequestion  is  whether the transfer is genuine or  sham,	 thepoint for decision would be, not who paid the  considerationbut  whether any consideration was paid.   Therefore,  therewill  be  force in the contention of the  appellant  that  afinding	  as   to  who	furnished  the	 capital   for	 theintermediaries was requisite before they could be held to bebenamidars,  if the Tribunal had held them to be  benamidarsin  the	 former	 sense but not in  the	latter.	  We  must.,therefore, examine what it is that the Tribunal has actuallyfound.	 Now,  the  Tribunal has not held that	any  of	 thetransactions  with  which  the	assessment  proceedings	 areconcerned  are benami.	Indeed, the word 'benami'  does	 notfind  a	 place	anywhere in its order.	It is  only  in	 thequestion  which	 the appellant framed for reference  to	 thecourt  in  its application under section 661)  that  it	 haschosen for the first time to introduce the word 'benamidar'.That  apart,  looking at the substance of the  finding,	 thepoint  that  arose  for	 determination	before	the   taxingauthorities  was  what	profit the  appellant  had  made  oncertain	 sales	standing in its books in the  names  of	 theintermediaries.	  If the sales were true, the amounts  shownin  the books as price received therefor would be the  basisfor  working out the profits, and that was the stand of	 theappellant;  but the authorities held that those	 sales	weresham  and  the	entries relating to  the  payment  of  pricetherefor  fictitious.  Then, they found that  the  concernedgoods  were  sold  by  the appellant  directly	to  its	 ownconstituents,  that  the  price paid by	 them  was  actuallyreceived by it, and that should be the basis for calculatingits profits.  Thus, the point which was actually in issue inthe proceedings was a question of benami in the second senseand  not in the first, and to decide that, the Tribunal	 badonly to724find  whether any price was paid by the	 intermediaries	 forthe  sales  and	 not who paid the price	 for  them.   It  isscarcely  necessary  to add that no question  arises  as  towhether	 the intermediaries are benamidars for the  ultimatepurchasers, because the claim of the former is that they hadsold  the  goods  to the latter	 under	fresh  contracts  atdifferent  prices.  Nor could there be a question of  benamiin the first sense, as that could arise only between a partyto a deed and another who is economic not a party to it	 butclaims	to  be	beneficially  entitled	to  the	  propertiesconveyed  by  the deed.	 Therefore, on the findings  of	 theTribunal,  the	question  whether  the	intermediaries	werebenamidars  for	 the  appellant could  not  arise,  and	 thefurther	 question  as  to  who found  the  capital  for	 theintermediaries	is altogether irrelevant.  Likewise, on	 thefinding	 that the yarn was really sold by the appellant	 notto  the intermediaries but to its own constituents and	thatthey paid the price therefor to the appellant, the  questionwho  had  the  benefit of the transaction  could  not  ariseeither.(2)It is next contended that some of the intermediaries wereprivate limited companies registered in accordance with	 theprovisions  of	the Companies Act and were in  law  distinctlegal  entities as held in Solomon v. Solomon &	 Company(1),and  that  they could not be held to be benamidars  for	 theappellant without deciding the matters mentioned by AtkinsonJ.   in	 Smith, Stone and Knight v.  Birmingham	 Corporation(2) . The learned Judge observed at page 121:"It  seems therefore to be a question of fact in each  case,and  those cases indicate that the question is	whether	 thesubsidiary  was	 carrying on the business as  the  company'sbusiness or as its own.	 I have looked at a number of cases-they  are all revenue cases to see what the courts  regardedas  of importance for determining that question.   There  isSan Paulo Brazilian Rly. Co.v. Carter(3), Apthorpe v.  PeterSchoenhofen Brewery Co. Ltd. (4), Frank Jones Brew-(1) [1897] A.C. 22.		 (2) [1939] 4 A.E.R. 116.(3) [1896] A.G. 31: 8 T.C. 407.	   (4) [1899] 4 T.C. 41.725ing Co. v. Apthorpe(1), St. Louis Breweries v.	Apthorpe(2),and  I	find six points which were deemed relevant  for	 thedetermination  of the question: who was really	carrying  onthe  business?	In all the cases, the question	was  whetherthe  company,  an English company here, could  be  taxed  inrespect	 of  all the profits made by some other	 company,  asubsidiary  company, being carried on elsewhere.  The  firstpoint  was: Were the profits treated as the profits  of	 theCompany?-wben I say 'the company' I mean the parent company-secondly, were the persons conducting the business appointedby  the parent company?	 Thirdly, was the company  the	headand  the  brain of the trading venture?	 Fourthly,  did	 thecompany govern the adventure, decide what should be done andwhat  capital should be embarked on the	 venture?   Fifthly,did the company make the profits by its skill and direction?Sixthly, was the company in effectual and constant control?"The   contention  of  the  appellant  is  that	before	 theintermediaries	could  be  held to  be	benamidars  for	 theappellant,  findings ought to have been recorded on the	 sixpoints	mentioned  in  the judgment  of	 Atkinson,  J.	Thiscontention  proceeds  on a misapprehension as  to  the	truescope  of  the	above  observations  and  of  the  decisionsreferred  to  therein.	 In those cases,  the  question	 waswhether	 the profits earned by a subsidiary company X  couldbe  held -to be profits earned by the parent company  A	 andtaxed  in the hands of company A. It was held that the	factthat  X was a legal entity did not stand in the way  of	 itsprofits	 being treated as profits of A, if, as	observed  byLord Sterndale in Inland Revenue Commissioners v. Samson(3),X  was doing the business of A and not its own, and  varioustests  were laid down for ascertaining whether it was A	 whowas  running the business of X. But here, no  such  questionarises.	 The true scope of the assessment proceedings is  todiscover  what	profits were really made  on  certain  saleseffected by the appellant, and the intermediaries came into(1) [1898] 4 T.C. 6.	       (2) [1898] 4 T.C. 111.(3) [1921] 2 K. B. 492; 8 T. C. 20.726the  picture  only as the persons in whose names  the  saleswere made.  The question whether apart from those sales	 theintermediaries	 were  genuine	commercial   bodies   havingexistence  independent	of the appellant did not  arise	 fordetermination, as a finding that they were such bodies wouldhave had no effect on the chargeability of the appellant  totax on the profits made by it on the sales in question.The question of the true status of the intermediaries  wouldhave assumed practical importance if they had done  businessother  than  the  sales in question  and  had  made  profitsthereon,  and  those  profits were sought  to  be  taxed  asprofits	 made  by  the	appellant.   It	 would	then  be   alegitimate  contention	for the appellant  to  advance	thatcould  not be done unless the intermediaries were  found  tohave been really benamidars for it.  In that case, it  wouldhave  been important to consider who found the	capital	 forthe concerns and who was running them.	But here, the tax islevied	only  on  the  profits	ostensibly  earned  by	 theintermediaries on the sales which stand in the books of	 theappellant in their names.  If those sales are sham, then theorder  of assessment must stand even if	 the  intermediarieswere  real concerns, which had found their own	capital	 andearned	their  own  profits in other  transactions.   If  anindividual A carrying on his own business lends his name  tothe business transaction of B. the latter cannot escape	 theobligation  to	pay  the tax on these  transactions  on	 theground	that A had also his own genuine business.   Likewiseif  companies doing their own business lend their  names  tobusiness transactions of other persons, those other  personscannot	be  heard to say that they are not  taxable  on	 theprofits	 of  these  transactions for  the  reason  that	 thecompanies   were  also	carrying  on  their  own   business.Therefore,  on	the  finding that the sales  were  sham,  noquestion  arises  as to the constitution or  status  of	 theintermediaries.	  It is true that the Tribunal has  directedthat all the profits earned by the intermediaries should  beadded to the profits of the appellant but that is because ithas found that the intermediaries727did  no	 business  of  her  than  the  transactions  of	 theappellant.  And this finding clearly reveals how hollow	 andunsubstantial the contentions of the appellant are as to thesources	  of   capital	for  the  intermediaries   and	 theapplication  of	 the  tests laid down in  Smith,  Stone	 andKnight	v. Birmingham Corporation(1).  It is a	most  unrealquestion to raise of firms and companies whose only businessconsists  of sham transactions as to who found	the  capitalfor them or who was running them.(3)  It is next contended that though the facts proved mightjustify	 a finding that the intermediaries were	 benamidars,they  did not necessarily lead to the conclusion  that	theywere benamidars for the appellant.  It is argued that on thefindings  of  the  Tribunal  that  it  was  Mr.	  ThyagarajaChettiar,  the	Managing Agent of the  appellant,  that	 hadsetup the intermediaries, that it was his relations and	 menwho  had been put up as partners and shareholders  of  theseconcerns, and that it was he that generally had the  controlof  the business, the proper inference to draw was that	 theintermediaries were benamidars for Mr. Tbyagaraja  Chettiar,and  that  in consequence their profits were  liable  to  beadded  to  his	and not to those  of  the  appellant.	Thisargument  again proceeds on the assumption that the  profitsof  the intermediaries have been taxed in the hands  of	 theappellant on the ground that they are its benamidars.	But,as already stated, that is not the true position.  What	 aresought to be taxed in these proceedings are the profits madeon   certain  sales  and  not  the  profits  made   by	 theintermediaries as distinct entities chargeable to tax  undersection	 3  of	the Act, and the only  relevant	 points	 fordecision  are, what profits were made on those sales and  bywhom.	On  the finding that the appellant  sold  the  goodsdirect	to the ultimate purchasers and recovered  the  pricetherefor, it is only the appellant that could -be taxed	 forthe profits made thereon and not the Managing Agent.  It  isof no consequence that in form the order is that the profitsof the intermediaries should be added to-those of the(1)  [1939] 4 A.E.R.116.728appellant,  because,  as  pointed  out	in  discussing	 theprevious contention of the appellant of which the present isbut a repetition in another form, the intermediaries did  noother business than the sales concerned in this	 assessment,so  that the profits of the business mean the same thing  asprofits made on the concerned sales.There  is  another  aspect of the matter,  which  calls	 fornotice.	 -  If	the contention of  the	appellant  that	 theintermediaries	were benamidars for Mr. Thyagaraja  Chettiaris  accepted, it means that he had, by availing	 himself  ofhis position as Managing Agent, unjustly enriched himself atthe  expense of the shareholders to the tune of over Rs.  25lakhs.	Now, Mr. Thyagaraja Chettiar is the dominant  memberof  the firm of Managing Agents.  It is this firm  that	 hasbeen  in  management of the affairs of the  company  at	 alltimes  and  has	 been  representing  it	 in  the  assessmentproceedings at all stages, and it is through this firm	thatthe  appellant speaks in the present appeals.  The  positionthen  is that Mr. Thyagaraja Chettiar as Managing  Agent  ofthe  appellant	charges himself in his	individual  capacitywith  conduct which is grossly fraudulent and  infamous,  sothat  the company might escape its liability to tax.   This,to our minds, is a most surprising position to take.  But weare  not  concerned  here with the ethics  of  it  and	mustconsider  it on its merits so long as the law does  not	 barit.   But  what	 are  its  merits  The	position  which	 theappellant  took	 up  with reference to this  matter  at	 theseveral	 stages of the assessment has been  neither  uniformnor  even consistent.  Thus, before the Appellate  AssistantCommissioner  its argument was that the Managing  Agent	 hadbeen  the protector of the interests of the' company at	 alltimes,	that  he  had "Stood by it in its  lean	 years"	 andshould "not therefore be presumed to have acted against	 theinterests   of	 the  company"	and   that   therefore	 thetransactions  in the names of the intermediaries  should  beaccepted  as genuine.  Before. the Tribunal, the  contentionwas that even if -the intermediaries were bogus concerns "itmight be that some other individual got the bene-730fit and not the company".  Thus, the contention now advancedwas  not  thought  of in the earlier stages  and  was  stillnebulous  and in the making, when the matter was before	 theTribunal,  and	it  is only in the,  argument  that  it	 hasassumed a definite and concrete shape.Dealing	 with  the contention as advanced  before  it,.	 theTribunal referred to several facts such as that the sales infavour	of  the	 intermediaries	 were  for  unusually  largequantities and for prices far below the market rate and eventhe  cost  of production, that the appellant  was  a  publiccompany with a Board of Directors in-charge of its business,and that they must have known all about these  transactions.Is  it likely that the Directors would have  accepted  thesesales involving such huge loss to the company and carried onregularly  from month to month and year to year	 during	 thewhole  of  this period as proper and  genuine,	unless	theyconsidered  that it was the company and not  Mr.  ThyagaraiaChettiar who was to have the benefit of them? it was  arguedby the learned Solicitor-General for the respondent that  ifon  the facts two inferences were possible and the  Tribunalchose to draw one and not the other, it was not a matter  inwhich the court could interfere, if the inference is one  offact.	That is a proposition of law well settled,  and	 hasnot  been disputed.  Now, on the facts, two  inferences	 arepossible.  One is that the object of the Managing Agent	 wasto defraud the shareholders by purchasing goods himself at alow   valuation	  for	his  own  benefit   and	  that	 theintermediaries	were  set up by him for that  purpose.	 Theother is that they were set up for the purpose of concealingportions  of  the  profits earned by the company  so  as  toreduce	the tax to which it was liable to be assessed.	 Theformer involves cheating the shareholders; the latter, evad-ing  the  tax  due  to the State.   Is	it  an	unreasonableinference for the Tribunal to draw that the motive by  whichthe  Managing Agent was actuated was the latter and not	 theformer?	  Is  it  not more legitimate to  presume  that	 theManaging  Agent	 wanted	 to  benefit  the  shareholders	  byreducing the730tax  rather  than  he  wanted to  defraud  them	 by  himselfpurchasing  the	 goods for a low price in the names  of	 theintermediaries?	   If  the  Tribunal  came  to	the   formerconclusion  and it is one which could reasonably be come  toon the materials, it is not one which the court can  review,being  one  of fact.  This ground. of attack  also  must  berejected.   In	the  result,  all  the	contentions  of	 theappellant  based on the assumption that	 the  intermediarieshad  been  held to be benamidars for the appellant  must  beoverruled on the ground that on the findings of the Tribunalthey do not really arise.Lastly,	 it  was contended that the profits  earned  by	 theintermediaries	bad not been brought into the books  of	 thecompany_  as  its  income,  had not  been  included  in	 itsbalance-sheet  and had not been distributed as dividends  oradded  to its reserves, and, not having been treated as	 itsincome or profits, could not be taxed.	The decisions in St.Lucia  Usines  and  Estates  Co.  v.  St.  Lucia   (ColonialTreasurer) (1), Commissioner of Taxes v. Melbourne  Trust(2)and  Commissioner of Income-tax, Bihar and Orissa  v.  Maha-rajadhiraja  of Darbhanga(3) were quoted in support of	thiscontention.   This  question  is,  however,  no	 longer	 resintegral  and  is covered by the decision of this  Court  inCommissioner  of  Income-tax v. K. B. M.  T.  T.  ThyagarajaChetty(1).  There, the assessee which was no other than	 thefirm  of Messrs K.R.M.T.T. Thyagaraja Chettiar and Co.,	 theManaging  Agents of the present appellant, failed  to  bringinto  its profit and loss account a certain amount which  ithad  earned  as commission, and the point for  decision	 waswhether	 that amount was liable to tax.	 The  contention  ofthe assessees was that it was not liable as it had not	beentreated as profits by the assessee and the decisions in	 St.Lucia  Usines  and  Estates  Co.  v.  St.  Lucia   (ColonialTreasurer)(1),	Commissioner of Taxes v. Melbourne  Trust(2)and   Commissioner  of	Income-tax,  Bihar  and	 Orissa	  v.Maharajadhiraja of Darbhanga(3) were relied on in support ofthis   position.   But	this  Court  disagreed	 with	thiscontention, and(1) [1924] A.G. 508.	       (2) [1914] A.C. 1001.(3) 60 I.A. 146.	       (4) 24 I.T.R. 525.731held that the liability to pay tax on the income arose	whenit  had	 arisen or accrued and that how the  assessee  dealtwith  it  subsequently did not affect  that  liability,	 anddistinguished the decisions in St. Lucia Usines and  EstatesCo.  v. St. Lucia (Colonial Treasurer) (1) and	Commissionerof Taxes v. Melbourne Trust(2) on the ground that they	werepronouncements	on the particular statutes there under	con-sideration  and	 were  not authorities on  the	question  ofassessment of profits and gains under the Indian  Income-taxAct.   Applying	 this decision, the  appellant	having	beenfound to have sold its goods to the ultimate purchasers	 andreceived  the prices, there can be no question but that	 theprofits	 had- accrued to it both in the business and in	 thelegal  sense  and that liability to tax had arisen.   If  anindividual  were  to  sell  goods  and	receive	 the   pricetherefor,  that would be income accrued or arisen liable  totax in his hands even though he should have failed to  enterit  in his accounts.  A party cannot avoid tax	by  adoptingthe  simple expedient of not disclosing its receipt  in	 hisbooks.	That will be a case of income accrued or arisen	 butconcealed and not of income not accrued or arisen.  This  isconceded by the appellant.  But it is argued that  differentconsiderations	arise  in the case of  companies  registeredunder the Indian Companies Act, because there are provisionsin the Act as to how the profits are to be disposed of, suchas  distribution of dividends or adding to the	reserve	 anduntil  that was done, there was no accrual of income  or  ofprofits	 under the statute.  This is to confuse	 accrual  ofincome with the disposal of it.	 Income which has accrued toan  assessee  might  remain undisposed of by  him,  but	 theliability to tax attaches to it under the provisions of	 theIndian	Income-tax  Act	 as soon as it accrues.	  It  is  noconcern of the revenue how and when profits are disposed  ofby  the	 assessees,  and  for  this  purpose  it  makes	  nodifference  whether  the  assessee is  an  individual  or  acompany, both of them being equally liable to tax 'on incomeand profits when they have arisen or accrued.  The(1)  (1924] A.C. 508.95(2) [1914] A.C. 1001.732provisions  of	the  Companies Act as  to  the	disposal  ofprofits	 are  designed	to  protect  the  interests  of	 theshareholders and have no effect on the right which the Statehas  under  the	 provisions of the Act to impose  a  tax  onincome	when  it  arises  or accrues.	It  should  also  bementioned  that	 though	 the  decision	in  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax,  Madras v. K. R. M. T. T.  Thyagaraja  Chetty(1)relates	 to a firm and not a company, the decisions  in	 St.Lucia  Usines  and  Estates  Co.  v.  St.  Lucia   (ColonialTreasurer)  (2)	 an(?  Commissioner of	Taxes  v.  MelbourneTrust(3)   which  were	held  to  be  inapplicable  to	 theimposition  of	a  charge under the  Indian  Income-tax	 Actrelated to companies, and the argument and the decision pro-ceeded	on the footing that principles applicable  were	 thesame   both  to	 firms	and  companies.	  The  decision	  inCommissioner  of  Income-tax,  Madras  v. K.  R.  M.  T.  T.Thyagaraja  Chetty(1) must accordingly be  held-to  concludethis question against the appellant.It must be said of this contention that it was raised beforethe  Tribunal and negatived.  Being a question of  law,	 theappellant bad a right to have it referred to the court undersection 66(1).	But the question as framed by the  appellantin its application under section 66(1) did not	specificallyraise this point; nor does it appear to have been argued  inthe  High  Court.   As	the  matter  is	 now  concluded	  byauthority,  it	will  be an idle  formality  to	 direct	 theTribunal  to  refer  the question for the  decision  of	 thecourt.	The powers of this Court in appeal under article 136are  not intended to be exercised for such a purpose.	Thatdisposes  of  the main and substantial questions  that	havebeen agitated in these proceedings.There is one other matter in respect of which the  appellantsought	reference  to  the court in  its  application  undersection	 66(1).	 The facts relating to this matter are	thatduring the periods of assessment with which the appeals	 areconcerned,  the appellant opened branches in the  States  ofTravancore, Cochin, Pudukkottah and Mysore, and sold yarn toits consti-(1)  [1964] S.C.R. 258: [1953] 24 I.T.R. 525.(2) [1924] A.C. 508,(3) [1914] A.C. 1001.733tuents in those States through these branches.	The point indispute	 is  whether the profits made by  the  appellant  onthose  sales are chargeable to tax.  The contention  of	 theappellant  before  the	Tribunal was  that  the	 matter	 wasgoverned by section 14(2) (c), and that the profits could betaxed only if they were remitted to British India.  That wasnot  disputed by the Department, but they contended that  asthe appellant sold in the States goods manufactured by it inBritish India, the governing provisions were sections  42(1)and  42(3), and that under these provisions,  the  appellantwas  liable to be taxed on such portions of the	 profits  aswere  apportionable  to	 the manufacture  of  the  goods  inBritish	 India.	 That was accepted by the Tribunal, and	 theprofits	 were  apportioned in the ratio of  85:15.   In	 itsapplication  under section 66(1), the appellant	 raised	 thecontention that sections 42 (1) and 42 (3) applied 'only  tononresidents,  and that it was only section 14(2)  (c)	thatwould  apply to residents and applied to have that  questionreferred  to  the decision of the court.  But  the  Tribunalheld  that  the decision of this Court	in  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax,  Bombay  v. Ahmedbhai Umarbhai  and	 Co.(1)	 hadsettled	 that  sections	 42(1) and  42(3)  applied  both  toresidents as well as nonresidents and consequently  declinedto refer the question'The  correctness  of this decision does not appear  to	havebeen  contested before the High Court, the only point  dealtwith  in the judgment of the learned Judges being as to	 thecorrectness  of	 the ratio in which  the  apportionment	 wasmade.	Even in this Court, it was only this  question	thatwas pressed on the strength of the decision in	Commissionerof  Income-tax and Excess Profits Pax v. S. Sen(2),  Section14  was	 mentioned  in the course of the  argument,  but  nocontention  was advanced that sections 42(1) and  42(3)	 ap-plied  only  to	 non-residents, and  the  decision  in	Com-Missione; of Income-tax v. Ahmedbhai Umarbhai and Co.(1) wasnot even so much as referred to in the(1)  [1950] S.C.R. 335: [1950] I.T.R. 472.(2)  [1949] I.T.R. 355.734course	of the argument, and the appellant did not even	 askfor this question being referred.  That apart,in  view	  ofthe decision in Commissioner of Income-tax v.	  AhmedbhaiUmarbhai and Co.(1), no purpose would be     served	  bydirecting a reference of this question,and the Tribunal	 wasright in observing that "it is not even of academic interestto  refer  the	said question to the High  Court".   On	 thequestion  whether the fixation of ratio was correct, we	 areof  opinion that it is a pure question of fact, and  is	 notopen to reference under section 66(1).In  the	 result, the appeals fail, and	are  dismissed	withcosts.