PETITIONER:BHARAT BARREL AND DRUM MFG.  CO.PRIVATE LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:GOVIND GOPAL WAGHMARE AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:24/03/1960BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.GUPTA, K.C. DASCITATION: 1960 AIR  873		  1960 SCR  (3) 378 CITATOR INFO : R	    1961 SC1191	 (3) R	    1963 SC1007	 (13)ACT:Industrial    Dispute--Full    Bench	 formula--Income-taxPayable--Test.HEADNOTE:The  workmen of the appellant company claimed  four  months,wages  including  dearness allowance as bonus for  the	year1952,  and  retrospective operation of	the  increased	wagescale  to be fixed by the Industrial Tribunal from March  1,1952.	The  appellant agreed to the  increased	 wage  scalesuggested  by  the  Tribunal but wanted that  it  should  belinked	to  some  guaranteed  production,  and	opposed	 itsoperation retrospectively on the ground that there had	beeneliberate  slowing down of production by the workmen in	 theprevious  years.   The Tribunal found that  there  was	somejustification  in the appellant's contention that there	 wasconsiderable  go-slow  which  had  affected  production	 andordered	 that  retrospective effect should be given  to	 itsorder relating to increase in wages which was passed on	 May13,  1957,  from  June 1, 1956, and not March  1,  1952,  asclaimed by the workmen, The increased wages were not  linkedto any guaranteed production but it was made clear that	 theworkers	 would give certain reasonable production  to  whichthe workmen agreed.  The Tribunal granted five months  basicwages by way of bonus on the basis of the Full Bench formulawhich  is generally applied to these matters.  On appeal  bythe Appellant-company by special leave :Held,  that  there was no reason for interference  with	 theorder of the Tribunal fixing the date as June 1, 1956,	fromwhich  the increased wages should come into force  and	thatthe  Tribunal had jurisdiction to award five  months'  basicwages by way of bonus.For  the  purpose of the Full Bench formula,  the  incometaxpayable	 has  to  be  deducted on  the	figures	 worked	 outaccording  to  the  formula and it is  immaterial  what	 theactual income-tax paid is-whether more or less.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 93 of 1959.Appeal	by special leave from the Award dated May 13,  1957,of the Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, in Reference (I.T.)	 No.166 of 1955.R.   J. Kolah, S. N. Andley, J. B. Dadachanji, Rameshwar  Nathand P. L. Vohra, for the appellants.K.   B.	 Chaudhury and Janardan Sharma, for the	 respondentsNos. 1 and 2.3791960.  March 24.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byWANCHOO,   J.-This  appeal  by	special	 leave	raises	 twoquestions,  namely,  (i) bonus for the year  1952  and	(ii)retrospective  operation  of  the order	 of  the  IndustrialTribunal relating to increase in wages.	 The appellant is  acompany	 manufacturing barrels and drums at  Bombay.   Therewas a dispute between the appellant and its workmen about  anumber of matters, which was referred to the tribunal by theGovernment  of Bombay on November 17, 1955.  In	 respect  ofthe  two matters which are now raised in appeal the  workmenclaimed	 (i) four months wages including dearness  allowanceas bonus for the year 1952 and (ii) retrospective  operationof the wage-scale to be fixed by the tribunal from March  1,1952.So far as the increase in wages, is concerned, the appellantagreed to the scale suggested by the tribunal but it opposedthe  grant of the increased scale retrospectively  and	alsowanted	that  the increased wages should be linked  to	someguaranteed  production.	  The reason for this was  that	 theappellant  felt that there had been deliberate slowing	downof  production	by the workmen in the previous	years.	 Thetribunal was of opinion that there was some justification inthe appellant's contention that there had been	considerablego-slow	 which	had affected production.  Taking  that	intoaccount it ordered that retrospective effect should be givento  its order which was passed on May 13, 1957 from June  1,1956.  As to the linking of the increased wages to a certainguaranteed production it found it difficult to lay down	 anynorm itself; but it made it clear that the increase in wageswas  made by it on the basis that the workers would  give  acertain	 reasonable  production and noted that	the  workerswere  agreeable to do that.  It, however,  recommended	thatimmediately  after  the.  award had been  given,  an  expertshould	be appointed by agreement, if possible, to  go	intothis  question.	  It  also  said that in  case	it  was	 notpossible to appoint an expert by agreement it would be	opento the appellant to appoint one.380The  appellant's contention before us is that  the  tribunalhaving found some justification in its contention that therehad   been  considerable  go-slow  should  not	have   givenretrospective  effect  at all to the order relating  to	 theincrease in wages.  This matter has been considered fully bythe tribunal and it came to the conclusion that increase  inwages  should  be  granted from June 1,	 1956.	 This  couldhardly	 be  called  retrospective  considering	  that	 thereference  was	made  in November 1955 ;  in  any  case	 thetribunal rejected the claim of the workmen for retrospectiveoperation for the period of over four years from March	1952to May 1956 and a good deal of go-slow was practised  duringthis  period.	In the circumstances we see  no	 reason	 forinterference with the order of the tribunal fixing the	dateas June 1, 1956, from which the increased wages should	comeinto force.This brings us to the next question relating to bonus.	 Thetribunal  has  awarded five months' basic wages	 by  way  ofbonus.	The first contention in this connection is that	 theworkmen	 had only claimed four months' basic wages  and	 thetribunal could not have awarded anything more than what	 theworkmen	 claimed.   This in our opinion is  incorrect.	 Theworkmen	 had claimed four months' wages	 including  dearnessallowance  as  bonus.  Five months' basic  wages  which	 thetribunal has allowed are admittedly less than the claim	 putforward	 (namely,  four	 months'  wages	 including  dearnessallowance).  In the circumstances the tribunal certainly hadjurisdiction to award what it has awarded to the workmen.The  next question is whether the tribunal was justified  inawarding as much as five months' basic wages on the basis ofthe Full Bench formula, which is generally applied to  thesematters.   The	gross profit found by the  tribunal  is	 notchallenged,  namely, Rs. 5.05 lacs.  The tribunal  has	thenallowed Rs. 1.36 lacs as depreciation, leaving a balance  ofRs.  3.69,  lacs.  Deducting income-tax from this  at  sevenannas  in a rupee (i.e. Rs. 1.61 lacs), we are left  with  abalance of Rs. 2.08 lacs.  Six per cent. per annum  intereston the paid-up capital along with four per cent. interest onthe  working  capital  comes  to  Rs.  16,000,	leaving	  anavailable381surplus	 of  Rs. 1.92 lacs.  Out of this, the  tribunal	 hasallowed five months' basic wages as bonus which according toits calculations comes to Rs. 91,000, leaving Rs. 1.01 lacs.There will be a rebate of Rs. 40,000 on this sum, leaving  atotal  of  Rs.	1.41  lacs with	 the  appellant.   On  thesefigures,  the  bonus  awarded  by  the	tribunal  cannot  beinterfered with.The   appellant,  however,  draws  our	attention   to	 twocircumstances  in  this connection.  In the first  place  iturges that the tribunal has not taken into account  anythingfor  rehabilitation.   But  it may  be	mentioned  that	 theappellant had proved no rehabilitation amount as such.	Whatit  had	 done  was  to appropriate  Rs.	 3.16  lacs  towardsdepreciation,  which of course was not the proper amount  ofnotional  normal depreciation, which is allowable under	 theformula.   Our attention is drawn, however, to	the  figuresfiled  by  the workmen in Ex.  U-4 in which Rs.	 40,000	 hasbeen  allowed towards rehabilitation.  Even  accepting	thisconcession by the workmen and deducting it from the  figuresgiven  by us above, the appellant would still be  left	withRs.  1.01  lacs	 after paying five months'  basic  wages  asbonus.	There is thus no reason to interfere with the  awardof bonus on this ground.Lastly	it  is	urged  that  according	to  the	  income-taxassessment  which  was actually made in this  case  sometimeafter  the  order of the tribunal, the	appellant  has	beenassessed  to  income-tax amounting to Rs.  2.35	 lacs.	 Theappellant  claims  that	 it should be  allowed	this  entireamount and not the notional figure calculated by us, namely,Rs. 1.61 lacs as income-tax.  We are of opinion that for thepurpose	 of the Full Bench formula, the	 income-tax  payablehas  to be deducted on the figures worked out  according  tothe formula and it is immaterial what the actual income -taxpaid is-whether more or less.  In this particular case,	 theincome-tax  appears to be more because certain	items  whichwere  challenged by the workmen but were allowed  as  properexpense by the tribunal have apparently not been allowed  asproper expense by the income-tax department.  The industrialtribunal,  however, is not concerned directly with what	 theincome49382tax authorities assess as actual income-tax in a  particularyear;  it  is  concerned with working  out  the	 Full  Benchformula	 in  accordance with its notional  calculations	 andthis is what has been done in this case.  There is no groundtherefore for interference-with the award of bonus for	thisreason either.We  therefore dismiss the appeal, but in  the  circumstancespass no order as to costs.Appeal dismissed.