PETITIONER:THE STATE OF AJMER (now RAJASTHAN)	Vs.RESPONDENT:SHIVJI LALDATE OF JUDGMENT:22/04/1959BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1959 AIR  847		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 739 CITATOR INFO : O	    1962 SC 195	 (1,3,4) D	    1964 SC 492	 (4,5,6) RF	    1969 SC  17	 (16,18) RF	    1973 SC 330	 (13) E	    1984 SC 684	 (43)ACT:Public	Servant-Teacher	 in  railway  school-Whether  Publicservant-Taking	of money Promising to Procure a	 job-Whetherillegal	 gratification-Criminal misconduct in the  dischargeof  duty Indian Penal Code (Act 45 of 1860), SS. 21, Cl.  9,161-Prevention	of  Corruption Act, 1947 (2  Of	 1947),	 SS.4(1), 5(1)(d), (2).HEADNOTE:The  respondent	 who was a teacher in a railway	 school	 wasprosecuted under s. 161 of the Indian Penal Code and s. 5(2)read  with s. 5(1)(d) of the Prevention of  Corruption	Act,1947.  The(1)  [1952] L.A.C. 219, 222.740prosecution case was that the respondent offered to secure ajob  for the complainant in the Railway Running Shed at	 AbuRoad,  if the latteR paid him Rs. 100, that the	 complainantagreed to this, and that on October 5, 1954, the complainantwrote  out  an	application  addressed	to  the	  DivisionalMechanical  Engineer,  Abu  Road.,  and	 handed	 it  to	 therespondent and gave him Rs. 50 promising to pay the  balanceof Rs. 50 after the Job had been secured.  The Special judgewho  tried  the	  case accepted the  prosecution  story	 andconvicted  the	respondent  on both  the  charges,  but,  onappeal,	 the High Court acquitted him on the ground that  hewas not a public servant.  The State appealed to the SupremeCourt.	It was contended for the respondent that even if  hewere considered to be a public servant he could not be	heldguilty on either of the charges framed against him.  It	 wasfound that neither in the charge framed under s. 161 of	 theIndian Penal Code nor in the evidence was there anything  toshow  that  the respondent intended to approach	 any  publicservant in order to secure a job for the complainant.Held  : (1) that the respondent was a public servant  withinthe meaning of the ninth clause of s. 2I of the Indian PenalCode as he was in the service of Government,, was being paidby  it	and was entrusted with the performance of  a  publicduty inasmuch as he was a teacher in a school maintained  byGovernment and it was part of his public duty to teach boys.G.   A.	 Monterio v. The State of Ajmer, [1956] S.C.R.	682,followed.(2)  that  in view of the words " by otherwise	abusing	 hisposition  " read along with the words " in the discharge  ofhis  duty  " in S. 5(1)(d) of the Prevention  of  CorruptionAct,  1947, an offence under that section requires that	 thepublic servant should misconduct himself in the discharge ofhis duty.In the present case, as the respondent was only a teacher itwas  not  -part	 of his duty to	 make  appointments  in	 theRailway	 Running Shed at Abu Road, and consequently when  hetook  money for procuring a job for the complainant  he	 wasnot  committing	 misconduct in the discharge  of  his  duty.Accordingly,  a	 conviction  under  s.	5(2)  read  with  s.5(1)(d)of  the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947,  was	 notvalid.(3)  that  the mere fact that a person takes money in  orderto  get	 a  job for another person somewhere  would  not  byitself	be an offence under s. 161 of the Indian Penal	Codeand that as the charge under s. 161 did not disclose who wasthe public servant whom the respondent would have approachedfor  rendering	or  attempting	to  render  service  to	 thecomplainant in securing a job for him, the prosecution underthat section was not maintainable; and,(4)  that the presumption under S. 4(1) of the Prevention ofCorruption Act, 1947 could not, arise in the present case ass. 161 of the Indian Penal Code was not applicable.741JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION:  Criminal Appeal No. 3  of1957.Appeal from the judgment and order dated August 14, 1956, ofthe former Judicial Commissioner's Court, Ajmer, in CriminalAppeal No. 2 of 1956, arising out of the judgment and  orderdated  January	11, 1956, of the Special  Judge,  Ajmer,  inCriminal Case No. I of 1955.R.   Ganapathy Iyer -and R. H. Dhebar, for the appellant.B. D. Sharma, for the respondent.1959.  April 22.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byWANCHOO,  J.-This appeal is on a certificate granted by	 theJudicial  Commissioner	of  Ajmer.   One  Shivji  Lal  Joshi(hereinafter called the accused) was prosecuted under s. 161of  the Indian Penal Code and s. 5 (2) of the Prevention  ofCorruption  Act,  No. II of 1947.  He was convicted  by	 theSpecial	 Judge	on  both  counts  and  sentenced  to  sufferrigorous imprisonment for a total period of six months.	  Hefiled  an appeal before the Judicial Commissioner of  Ajmer.The  appeal was allowed on the ground that the	accused	 wasnot  a	public	servant, though	 the  Judicial	Commissioneragreed with the findings of the Special Judge so far as	 thefacts  were concerned.	The State applied for a	 certificateunder  Art, 134 (1) (c) of the Constitution to enable it  toappeal	to this Court.	This certificate was granted  ;	 andthat is how the appealhas come before us.The  facts  which  have been found by both  the	 courts	 arethese.	 The accused was a teacher in the railway school  atPhulera.   Prem Singh who was the complainant was  known  tothe accused for about a year before the incident which	tookplace on October 6, 1954.  He was in search of a job and theaccused had told him a number of times that he would procurea  job for him in the Railway Running Shed at Abu  Road,  ifPrem  Singh  paid  him Rs. 100.	 On  October  5,  1954,	 theaccused had met Prem Singh at Kaiserganj742in Ajmer and told him that Dusehra holidays were approachingand  if he paid Rs. 100 the accused would go to Abu Road  tosecure a job for him.  Eventually. it was agreed between thetwo  that Prem Singh -would pay him Rs: 50 on the  next	 daywhile  the remaining Rs. 50 would be paid after the job	 hadbeen secured.  After this agreement, Prem Singh went to	 theDeputy Superintendent Police (Special Police Establishment),and made a complaint to the effect that the accused had toldhim that he could secure employment for him at Abu Road LocoShed as he bad considerable influence there and had demandedRs.  100  as illegal gratification for that  purpose.	PremSingh  also said that it had been settled that be would	 payRs. 50 in advance and Rs. 50 after his appointment.   Conse-quently,  Prem Singh wrote out an application  addressed  tothe  Divisional	 Mechanical  Engineer, Abu  Road,  and	alsoproduced   five	  ten-rupee   notes   before   the    DeputySuperintendent	Police.	  The numbers of  these	 notes	werenoted  down  and the Deputy Superintendent  Police  arrangedthat one Nathu Singh should accompany Prem Singh as a cousinwhen  Prem  Singh met the accused next day to  pay  him	 themoney.	On October 6, 1954, Prem Singh accompanied by  NathuSingh met the accused as arranged and the accused asked	 himfor  an	 application.  Prem Singh gave him  the	 applicationwhich  he bad already written out and the accused said	thatthat  would serve the purpose.	The accused then asked	PremSingh  for the money and he handed over the  five  ten-rupeenotes,	adding that he would pay the remaining Rs. 50  aftergetting	 service and assuring him that he would keep to	 hispart  of the bargain.  Thereafter Prem Singh gave  the	pre-arranged  signal and the police party headed by	 the  DeputySuperintendent of Police arrived.  The Deputy SuperintendentPolice disclosed his identity and searched the person of theaccused.   In that search, the application which Prem  Singhhad  written  for the Divisional  Mechanical  Engineer,	 AbuRoad,	and  the  five	ten-rupee  notes   were	  recovered.Thereafter  the accused was prosecuted as already  mentionedabove.743The  accused  admitted that the application as well  as	 thefive ten-rupee notes were recovered from him by the  police.His  explanation  was that one Jiwan Ram had given  him	 theapplication which was in English and which was said to be  aletter	for a friend of Jiwan Ram at Abu Road.	The  accuseddid not know English and took the application to be a letterto be delivered to the friend of Jiwan Ram.  Jiwan Ram	alsogave  him  five	 ten-rupee notes to be given  to  that	veryfriend of his when the accused went to Abu Road.  As alreadystated, both the courts below have accepted the	 prosecutionversion set out above and disbelieved the explanation  givenby the accused.	 The Special Judge convicted the accused  onthe   basis   of  the  prosecution  story.    The   JudicialCommissioner, though he accepted the prosecution story to betrue,  held  that the accused was not a public	servant	 andtherefore ordered his acquittal.  The main question that hasbeen  raised  on behalf of the appellant therefore  in	thisappeal	is that the Judicial Commissioner erred	 in  holdingthat the accused was not a public servant within the meaningof s. 21 of the Indian Penal Code.The  question whether the accused is a public servant  unders.   21	  of  the  Indian  Penal  Code	depends	  upon	 theinterpretation of the last part of the Ninth clause of	thatsection, which is in these terms:- ,"............  every  officer in the service or pay  of	 theGovernment  or	remunerated by fees or	commission  for	 theperformance of any public duty."The Judicial Commissioner seems to have overlooked this partof the Ninth clause, for he says that it had not been  shownthat  it was the duty of the accused to take, receive,	keepor  expend any property on behalf of the Government so	thathe  may	 come under the Ninth clause of s.  21.	  This	onlyrefers to the earlier part of the Ninth clause and the	lastpart which we have set out above does not seem to have	beenconsidered   at	 all.	This  very  question  came  up	 forconsideration  in this Court in G. A. Monterio v. The  Stateof Ajmer (1) and it was laid down that the true(1)  [1956] S.C.R. 682.744test in order to determine whether a person is an officer ofthe Government, is: (1) whether he is in the service or	 payof  the Government and (2) whether he is entrusted with	 theperformance of any public duty.' It is not disputed in	thiscase  that the accused was in the service of Government	 andwas  being  paid  by Government.  It  cannot  also,  in	 ouropinion,   be  doubted	that  he  was  entrusted  with	 theperformance of a public duty inasmuch as he was a teacher ina  school  maintained by Government and it was part  of	 hispublic	duty  to  teach boys.  In  these  circumstances	 theJudicial  Commissioner	was  in error in  holding  that	 theaccused	 was not a public servant within the meaning of	 theNinth clause of s. 21.This,  however,	 does not dispose of  the  matter.   Learnedcounsel	 for the accused has urged that even if the  accusedis held to be a public servant, he cannot be held guilty  oneither	of the charges framed against him.  We	shall  firsttake  the  charge  under  s.  5(2)  of	the  Prevention	  ofCorruption  Act read with s. 5(1) (d).	The charge was	thatthe  accused by corrupt or illegal means or by	abusing	 hisposition  as a public servant obtained	pecuniary  advantagefor  himself inasmuch as he took As. 50 from Prem  Singh  onOctober	 6,  1954.   Mere receiving of	money  by  a  publicservant even if it be by corrupt means is not sufficient  tomake  out  an offence under s. 5 (2) read with	s.  5(1)(d).The relevant part of s. 5(1)(d) reads as follows:-" A public servant is said to commit the offence of criminalmisconduct  in the discharge of his duty, if he, by  corruptor  illegal means or by otherwise abusing his position as  apublic servant, obtains for himself or for any other  personany valuable thing or pecuniary advantageThe  offence  under  this  provision  consists	of  criminalmisconduct  in	the  discharge	of  his	 duty.	 In   order,therefore,  that this offence is committed there  should  bemisconduct  by	the public servant in the discharge  of	 hisduty.	In other words the public servant must do  somethingin connection with his own duty and thereby obtain money forhimself or for any other person by corrupt or illegal. meansor by otherwise abusing745his position.  If a public servant takes money from a  thirdperson	in  order to corrupt some other public	servant	 andthere  is  no question of his misconducting himself  in	 thedischarge  of  his own duty, that action may be	 an  offenceunder  s. 161 of the Indian Penal Code but would not  be  anoffence under s. 5(2) read with s. 5(1)(d) of the Preventionof Corruption Act.  The essence of an offence under s.	5(2)read  with s. 5(1)(d) is that the public servant  should  dosomething  in  the  discharge of his own  duty	and  therebyobtain any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage for himselfor  for any other person by corrupt or illegal means  or  byotherwise  abusing his position.  The words "  by  otherwiseabusing	 his position " read along with the words "  in	 thedischarge  of  his duty " appearing in s.  5(1)(d)  make  itquite clear that an offence under that section requires thatthe   public  servant  should  misconduct  himself  in	 thedischarge of his own duty.  In the present case, the accusedwas  a	teacher	 and  it was no part of	 his  duty  to	makeappointments in the Running Shed at Abu Road.  There  would,therefore,  be no question of his committing  misconduct  inthe discharge of his duty when he took money for procuring ajob for Prem Singh in the Running Shed.	 So far therefore asthe charge under s. 5(1)(d) is concerned, we are of  opinionthat  there  was no question of	 the  accused  misconductinghimself	  in   the  discharge  of  his	own  duty   in	 thecircumstances of this case and it must fail.Now  we turn to the charge under s. 161 of the Indian  PenalCode.	The  relevant  part of that  section  (omitting	 theunnecessary words) for the purpose of this case is in  theseterms:"  Whoever, being a public servant, accepts from any  personfor  himself  any gratification whatever  other	 than  legalremuneration  as  a  motive  or	 reward	 for  rendering	  orattempting to render any service or disservice to any personwith  any public servant ". This requires- that	 the  personaccepting the gratification should be (1) a public  servant,(2) he should accept gratification for himself, and (3)	 thegratification94746should be as a motive or reward for rendering or  attemptingto  render any service or disservice to any person with	 anyother public servant.  The charge under s. 161 of the IndianPenal  Code which was trained in this case stated  that	 theaccused being a public servant accepted on October 6,  1954,a  sum of Rs. 50 from Prem Singh " as illegal  gratificationas  a  motive  for securing a job for  him  in	the  RailwayRunning Shed ". Now the first two ingredients set out  aboveare  clearly  established  in  this  case;  but	 the   thirdingredient, (namely, that the gratification should have beentaken  as a motive or reward for rendering or attempting  torender	any  service with any public servant)  is  not	evencharged against the accused.  The charge merely says that hetook the money as a motive for securing a job for Prem Singhin the Railway Running Shed, Abu Road.	It does not disclosewho  was  the  public servant whom the	accused	 would	haveapproached for rendering or attempting to render service  toPrem Singh in securing a job for him.  Even in the complaintmade  by Prem Singh to the Deputy Superintendent Police	 allthat  was said was that the accused told Prem Singh that  hewould  secure  a  job for him at Abu  Road  because  he	 hadconsiderable  influence there.	It was not disclosed  as  towho was the public servant on whom the accused had influenceand  whom  he would approach in order to tender	 service  toPrem  Singh.  In his statement also Prem Singh did  not	 saythat  the accused had told him that he had influence on	 anyparticular  public  servant  at	 Abu  Road  whom  he   wouldinfluence  in  order to render this service to	Prem  Singh,namely procuring him a job.  It is true that the applicationwas  addressed	by Prem Singh to the  Divisional  MechanicalEngineer  and was given to the accused who said that it	 wasall right; but Prem Singh did not even say that the  accusedhad  asked him to address the application to the  DivisionalMechanical  Engineer.	It seems that  the  application	 wasaddressed  to  the Divisional  Mechanical  Engineer,  simplybecause	 he  was  obviously the	 officer  in-charge  of	 theRailway	 Running Shed at Abu Road.  Thus Prem Singh did	 notsay either in his complaint or in747his  statement that the accused had told him that  he  wouldrender	service	 to him by approaching a  particular  publicservant.   In  the charge-sheet submitted by the  police  aswell  as  in  the charge framed by the	court,	it  was	 notdisclosed whether any public servant would be approached  torender	service to Prem Singh, i.e., by securing him a	job.In  the circumstances one of the ingredients of the  offenceunder  s.  161 was neither alleged nor	charged	 nor  provedagainst	 the  accused.	The mere fact that  a  person  takesmoney  in  order to get a job for another  person  somewherewould  not by itself necessarily be an offence under s.	 161of  the Indian Penal Code unless all the ingredients of thatsection	 are  made  out.  As in this case one  of  the	mainingredients  of	 that  section has not been  made  out,	 theaccused would be entitled to acquittal.However,  it  has  been urged on behalf of  the	 State	thatpresumption  under s. 4(1) of the Prevention  of  CorruptionAct  arises  in this case as money passed  hands  from	PremSingh to the accused and s. 4(1) provides that if an accusedperson has accepted any gratification for himself or for anyother  person, it shall be presumed unless the	contrary  isproved	that he accepted that gratification as a  motive  orreward	as is mentioned in s. 161 of the Indian Penal  Code.Assuming  that this presumption can be raised even when	 allthat is proved is mere passing of money, the question  stillremains	 whether  a presumption as to the motive  or  rewardsuch as is mentioned in s. 161 of the Indian Penal Code	 canbe  raised in this case at all, when we know as a fact	thatPrem Singh never said in the complaint that the accused	 hadtold him that he would influence any public servant and	 didnot  even say so in his statement in court and there was  nomention	 in the charge-sheet by the police or in the  chargeframed by the court that the accused was going to  influenceany  public servant in order to secure a job for Prem  Singhat  Abu	 Road.	We are of opinion that if the  evidence	 haddisclosed  that	 the  accused had indicated  that  he  wouldinfluence  any public servant in order to secure a  job	 forPrem  Singh a presumption as to the motive or  reward  mighthave748been  drawn  under  s.	4(1), assuming	again  that  such  apresumption  can be drawn where there is simple	 passing  ofmoney.	 But when there is no indication whatever  that	 anypublic	servant	 was to be approached or influenced  by	 theaccused there can, in our opinion, be no question of  makinga presumption that the payment was as a motive or reward forendering  service with any public servant.  In this view  ofthe  matter we are of opinion that the offence under s.	 161of  the	 Indian	 Penal	Code is not  made  out	against	 theaccused, for one of its essential ingredients is missing andno  presumption	 can be drawn in the circumstances  in	thatconnection.   We  therefore dismiss the	 appeal	 though	 forreasons	 different from those which commended themselves  tothe learned Judicial Commissioner.Appeal dismissed.