PETITIONER:NIRANJAN SINGH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH(and connected appeal)DATE OF JUDGMENT:03/10/1956BENCH:MENON, P. GOVINDABENCH:MENON, P. GOVINDABHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.IMAM, SYED JAFFERDAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  142		  1956 SCR  734ACT:Criminal      trial-Investigation      of	crime-PoliceRegulations--Case  diary-Submission  of the  case  diary  tosuperior  officers  day to day-Contravention  of  the  rule-Whether	  it   vitiates	 the  trial-Uttar   Pradesh   PoliceBegulations, r. 109.HEADNOTE:Rule  109  of the Uttar Pradesh Police	Regulations  dealingwith  the  investigation of crimes enjoins upon	 the  policeofficer when an investigation is closed for the day to	notethe  time  and place at which it closed and also  lays	downthat  throughout  the investigation the diary must  be	sentdaily  to the Superintendent of Police on all days on  whichany proceedings are taken.The  question that had to be decided by the court was as  towhether the appellants took part in the dacoity and the caseof the prosecution depended mainly on the identification  ofthe appellants.	 It was found that the investigating officerdid  not send the case diary daily to the Superintendent  ofPolice	but  only all together at the end of the  period  ofinvestigation.	It was contended for the appellants that thecase  diary  could  not be relied upon	as  it	enabled	 theofficer to make alterations during the course of the  periodof investigation and that as there had been an infraction ofr. 109 of(1)  [1950] S.C R. 335; [1950] I.T.R. 472.735the  Uttar Pradesh Police Regulations which had resulted  inprejudice, the whole trial was vitiated thereby.Held:(1)  Rule 109 of the Uttar Pradesh	 Police	 Regulationshas no statutory foundation but is only an injunction by theexecutive  Government to the police officers as to how	theymust  regulate their work and conduct themselves during	 thecourse	of  investigation and a failure to comply  with	 therule  relating to the submission of the police diary  cannotvitiate the trial.Hafiz  Mohammad	 Sanii and others v.  Emperor  (A.I.R.	1931Patna 15O), approved.Observations in Tilkeshwar Singh and others v. The State  ofBihar ([1955] 2 S.C.R. 1043), followed.(2)  It	 could	not  be said in the  absence  of  compellingreasons that because the investigating officer did not	sendthe  case diary to the superior officers every day the	sameis unworthy of credit particularly in view of the fact	thatthe courts below have cast no doubt upon its genuineness.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPFLLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeals  Nos.  60and 61 of 1956.Appeal	by -special leave from the judgment and order  datedAugust	4,  1955, of the Allahabad High	 Court	in  CriminalAppeal	No.  298 of 1955 and Referred No. 31  of  1955	withconnected Criminal Appeals Nos. 299 and 307 of 1955  arisingout  of the judgment and order dated February 28,  1955,  ofthe  Court  of Sessions Judge, Meerut in  Criminal  Sessionsrial o. 142 of 1954.Jai  Gopal  Sethi,  S.	C.  Saran  and	G.  C.	Mathur,	 forappellants in Criminal Appeal No. 60 of 1956.J.N.  Bannerji	and  P. C. Agarwala, for  the  appellant  inCriminal Appeal No. 61 of 1956.H.J.  Umrigar  and C. P. Lat, for the  respondents  in	bothAppeals.1956.  October 3. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGOVINDA	 MENON J.-On September 6, 1955, this  court  grantedthe  appellants herein, special leave to appeal	 under	art.136(1) of the Constitution from the judgment and order datedAugust 4, 1955, of the736Allahabad  High	 Court, in Criminal Appeal No. 298  of	1955(Reference  No. 31 of 1955) connected with Criminal  AppealsNos.  299 and 307 of 1955, limited to the  question  whetherthe  failure  to  comply  with the  rules  relating  to	 thesubmission  of	the police case diary, vitiates	 the  entiretrial and what the consequences of such failure are.  It  isin  pursuance to the leave so granted, that Criminal  AppealNo. 60 of 1956, has been preferred by accused Nos. 4, 7,  I,3, 5 & 2 (Niranjan Singh, Tikam Singh, Kharak Singh,  HarpalSingh,	Sardar	Singh  and  Satpal  Singh)  respectively  inSessions 3 Trial No. 142 of 1954, in the court of Session atMeerut	and Criminal Appeal No. 61 of 1956, is preferred  byaccused	 No. 6 (Udaibir Singh) in the same  Sessions  trial.Appellants 1 to 3 in Criminal Appeal No. 60 of 1956 (accusedNos. 4, 7 & 1, Niranjan Singh, Tikam Singh and Kbarak Singh)have  been sentenced to the extreme penalty of the  law	 andthe  remaining	appellants in that appeal sentenced  to	 im-prisonment  for	 life.	 The appellant (accused	 No.  6)  inAppeal No. 61 of 1956, has also been sentenced to death.On  the	 night	between February 28, and March	1,  1954,  adacoity took place in the house of Atal Singh in the villageof  Akheypur  in which about twenty dacoits  took  part	 andconsiderable  property	was  looted and taken  away  by	 thedacoits.  During the course of this incident four members ofthe family of Atal Singh, including himself, were shot	deadand another received gun-shot wounds as a result of which bedied  subsequently in the hospital.  Four other	 members  ofthe  family received gun-shot wounds and incised  wounds  atthe  hands of the dacoits but they survived as a  result  oftreatment in the hospital.The  prosecution  case was that among the dacoits  who	tookpart were the seven appellants in these two appeals, as wellas  two	 others; and of them accused No. I  (Kharak  Singh),accused	 No.  4	 (Niranjan Singh), accused  No.	 6  (UdaibirSingh) and accused No. 7 (Tikam Singh) were armed with	gunsand  as such were responsible for the shooting and  murders.The two others, namely, Achhpal Singh and Deoki Saran alias737Beg Saran, who figured as accused Nos. 8 & 9 respectively inthe  court  of	Sessions,  were	 acquitted  by	the  learnedSessions  Judge, who, after an analysis of the large  volumeof  evidence,  found  that all the  appellants	herein	wereguilty	of an offence under s. 396 of the Indian Penal	Codeand  sentenced	accused Nos. 1, 4, 6 and  7  (Kharak  Singh,Niranjan Singh, Udaibir Singh and Tikam Singh) to death	 andaccused Nos. 2, 3 & 5 (Satpal Singh, Harpal Singh and SardarSingh).to  imprisonment for life as hereinbefore  mentioned.On appeal to the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad,	 thelearned	  Judges  (Asthana  and	 Roy  JJ.)   confirmed	 theconvictions  and  sentences and dismissed the  appeals.	  Asstated already, leave to appeal to this court under art. 136was granted restricted to the question outlined by us at thebeginning.The  prosecution case is that the village of Akheypur  is  afactious  one in which one Narain Singh, the brother of	 the4th accused, was the leader of one party and Atal Singh, oneof the deceased, was the leader of the other.	Consequentlythe  dacoity  and murders in the house of  Atal	 Singh	tookplace as a matter of revenge.  Shortly stated, the case	 putforward on behalf of the prosecution is that the  appellantsand  others, some of whom were armed with guns,	 raided	 thehouse  of Atal Singh on the night in question.	The  inmatesof  -the  house and others were inflicted injuries  and	 thedacoits	 after	looting	 ?he  house  carried  away  valuableproperty.   It is not suggested that if the facts spoken  toby  the	 prosecution witnesses, who are	 eye-witnesses,	 aretrue, then an offence under s. 396 of the Indian Penal	Codehas not been amply proved; but the only question is  whetherthe appellants took part in the crime.That a dacoity took place in the house of Atal Singh  admitsof  no doubt and the appellants do not deny the	 occurrence,but  it is the case of accused Nos. 4 and 7 (Niranjan  Singhand  Tikam  Singh) that while the dacoity was  in  progress,they,  along  with the other residents of the  village,	 hadgone  to  the enclosure of Sardara Singh and  Daryao  Singh,close  to the house of Atal Singh, armed with guns with	 theobject738of giving assistance and succour to the inmates of the houseand  it	 was  they who opened fire from that  place  on	 thedacoits, compelling them to take to their heels as a  resultof the firing, and that after the dacoits had left the sceneof  occurrence, they, as. well as others, proceeded to	AtalSingh's house where Dharam Singh and other persons requestedthem -to go to the Police Station at Kithore on their motor-cycle  in  order  to make a report to  the  police.   It  isfurther	 alleged  that both of them went to  Kithore  policestation	 and  reported the occurrence to the  Sub  InspectorDalbir	Singh  (P.W.  28) who was in charge  of	 the  policestation and on the direction given by him, they went to	 thepolice	station	 Garhmukteshwar	 to  give  information.,  Inshort,	the  defence  is that these two	 accused  were	goodSamaritans  who	 tried to help the family of Atal  Singh  intheir  hour of dire need and not the assailants.  The  otherappellants denied the charge.It  is not necessary, in view of the concurrent	 conclusionsarrived	 at by the trial court and by the learned Judges  ofthe High Court, to restate with any elaboration the  detailsof the incident which culminated in the dacoity and murders.In  addition to the corroborating pieces of evidence,  thereare  eye-witnesses  who	 have identified  some	or  all	 theaccused at the scene of crime and it may also be stated thatsome  of  them	had received injuries at the  hands  of	 themiscreants. We have also a dying declaration, Exhibit P-50, recorded byP.W. 20, a Magistrate, who also had recorded the  statementsof Ganga Saran (P.W. 2) and Ranbir (P.W. 18) when they	werein  a  serious condition anticipating that  they  might	 notsurvive the injuries but which they fortunately did.The earliest information of the crime (Ex.  P. 1) was  givenby  Samey  Singh (P.W. 1) at the Police Station	 Kithore  atabout  2  a.m. on March 1, 1954.  It does  not	contain	 anydetails	 of  the incident and is confined to  the  statementthat  a	 dacoity was being committed at the  house  of	AtalSingh in the village and that the informant had rushed	fromthe village730for  making a report.  That guns were being fired  has	alsobeen  recorded	in it.	P.W. 28 Dalbir Singh, who  was	Sub-Inspector of Police and the Station House Officer of  PoliceStation Kithore at that time, received the information,	 andreached	 the scene of dacoity at about 2-30 a.m.,  whereuponJhamel	Kaur  (P.W. 4) handed over to him the  list  of	 thelooted property (Ex.  P. 2).  According to this witness,  heimmediately examined P. W. 2 and other witnesses on the spotand  recorded  their statements.  The injured  persons	weresent  to the hospital and inquests were held over  the	deadbodies of Rohtas Singh, Tejpal Singh, Atal Singh and  CharanSingh in the presence of witnesses.  Between 2-30 a.m. and 7or 7-30 a.m., P.W. 28, according to him, did a	considerableamount of work, such as recording the statements of all	 theavailable  witnesses,  sending the injured  persons  to	 thehospital  after	 taking their statements,  holding  inquestsover  the  dead	 bodies, inspecting the	 scene	of  dacoity,finding	 lead shots and wads there, and taking such  .thingsinto  custody,	etc.   By about 7 or 7-30  a.m.	 the  SeniorSuperintendent	of  Police,  the  Deputy  Superintendent  ofPolice	and  other  police officials reached  the  place  ofincident on bearing of the dacoity and by the time of  theirarrival,   according  to  P.W.	28,  he	 had  finished	 thepreliminary  work.  He also deposes that the parchas of	 thecase diary for the period between March I and March 7, 1954,were sent all together to the Superintendent of Police	onlyon March 7, and not as is enjoined by the rules every day asand  when the day's recording is complete.  We shall  advertto   the  arguments  of	 the  learned  counsel	about	thiscircumstance at a later stage.The  prosecution case depends, mainly if not solely, on	 theidentification of the various accused persons by some or allof  the	 prosecution  witnesses, in addition  to  the  dyingdeclaration  Exhibit P. 50 and the corroborating  statementsof P.W. 2, vide Exhibit P.    49) and P.W. 18 (vide  ExhibitP. 48).We  may here summarise in very sbort-outline the details  ofidentification	by  the	 witnesses.  P.	 W.  2	Ganga  Saranidentified accused Nos. 1, 3, 4, 5 and 7 96740(Kharak	 Singh, Harpal Singh, Niranjan Singh,  Sardar  Singhand  Tikam Singh).  Dharam Singh P. W. 3 identified  accusedNo. 6(Udaibir Singh) among the dacoits and also deposes thatAtal  Singh  told him that accused No. 7 (Tikam	 Singh)	 hadshot him with a gun.  P. W. 4 Mst.  Jhamel Kaur, in additionto  giving  a list of the looted property  (Exhibit  P.	 2),identified  accused  Nos. 2 & 6 (Satpal	 Singh	and  UdaibirSingh).	  P.  W.  5 (Richpal Singh) states  that  among	 thedacoits,  there were accused Nos. 2, 4, 5, 6 and  7  (SatpalSingh, Niranjan Singh, Sardar Singh, Udaibir Singh and TikamSingh).	  P. W. 7. (Om Pal) found among the dacoits  accusedNos. 2,6 and 7. The, deposition of P. W. 9 is to the  effectthat  he identified accused No. 6 (Udaibir Singh)- and	alsothat  Atal Singh told him that accused No. 7  (Tikam  Singh)had shot him.  P. W. 10 Jagbir Singh identified accused	 No.1  (Kharak  Singh).   All  the	appellants  before  us	wereidentified by  W. 11 (Ganga Bal), and P. W. 18 (Rdnbir)	 wasable to identify accused No. 6 Udaibir Singh.  The result ofthe above analysis is that each one of the accused has	beenidentified  by	one or more of	the  prosecution  witnesses.Accused	 No. I (Kharak Singh) is identified by P.W. 2,	P.W.10 and P.W. 1 1; accused No. 2 (Satpal Singh) is  identifiedby P.W. 4) P.W. 5, P.W. 7 and P.W. 11; accused No. 3 (HarpalSingh)	is identified by P.W. 2 and P.W. 11; accused  No.  4(Niranjan Singh) is identified by P.W. 2, P.W 5 and P. W.  11;  accused No. 5 (Sardar Singh) by P.W. 2, P.W. 5 and	P.W.11;  accused No. 6 (Udaibir Singh) by P.W. 4, P.W., 5,	P.W.7,  P.W.  9, P.W. 11 and P.W. 18; and accused No.  7  (TikamSingh) is identified by P.W. 2, P.W. 5, P.W. 7, P.W. 9and P.W. 11.The  learned Sessions Judge accepted the testimony of  thesewitnesses  and	disbelieved the story put,  forward  by	 theaccused	 and  in  this he had the concurrence  of  the	HighCourt.	 Such  being  the  case, this  court  would  not  bejustified  in re-opening the finding about the guilt of	 theappellants  if	no question of law is involved,	 or  if	 theconclusion  is	not  preverse or opposed  to  principles  ofnatural justice or revolt-741ing  to	 judicial  conscience.	But  Mr.  Jai  Gopal  Sethi,counsel	 for the appellants, strenuously contended  that  inview  of the failure of the Sub-Inspector P.W. 28 to  complywith  para.  109  of Ch.  XI of	 the  Uttar  Pradesh  PoliceRegulations, which lays down that when the investigation  isclosed-for  the	 day, a copy of the case diary for  the	 dayshould	be sent to the superior police officers,  there	 hasbeen  an  infraction of a mandatory rule of  law  which	 hasresulted  in  prejudice	 and if that  is  so,  the  findingsregarding  the guilt of the accused should be re-opened	 andthis  court should reassess and assay the evidence  to	findout  how  far the guilt of the appellants  has	been  provedbeyond reasonable doubt.The  question, therefore, is whether the action of the	Sub-Inspector  amounts  to	a  violation  of  a  statutory	dutyenjoined  on him.  If the Uttar Pradesh	 Police	 Regulationswere  a set of rules framed under any statute, and  as	suchhave  the  force  of  law, then	 a  violation  of  any	rulethereunder,  may  either  amount  to  an  illegality  or  anirregularity  which may or may not vitiate the	proceedings.The  Police Act,'1861 was enacted to reorganize	 the  policeand  to	 make  it  a  more  efficient  instrument  for	 theprevention  and	 detection  of	crimes,	 whereby  the  StateGovernment  is given authority to appoint  police  officers,such  as the Inspector-General, ete,.  Under s. 12  of	thatAct the Inspector-General of Police may, from time to  time,subject to the approval of the State Government, frame	suchrules and orders as he shall deem expedient relative to	 theorganization, classification and distribution of the  policeforce,	the places at which the members of the	force  shallreside, and the particular services to be performed by them;their inspection, the description of arms, accoutrements andother  necessaries to be furnished to them;  the  collectingand  communicating by them of intelligence and	information,and  all such other orders and rules relative to the  policeforce  as  the Inspector-General shall, from time  to  time,deem expedient for preventing abuse or neglect of duty,	 andfor  rendering such force efficient in the discharge of	 itsduties.	 It is not as if742these police regulations are rules framed by the  Inspector-General	 in  accordance with section 12; but  they  are	 theresult	of  the	 State Government laying down  the  mode  ofconduct	 and how the officers have to perform their  duties.Rule  109  in Chapter XI dealing with the  investigation  ofcrimes	 enjoins   upon	  the  police	officers   when	  aninvestigation  is  closed for the day to note the  time	 andplace at which it closed and also lays down that  throughoutthe investigation the diary must be sent daily to the PoliceSuperintendent	on  all days on which  any  proceedings	 aretaken.	 If  the investigating officer is  not	himself	 in-charge	of the station, the diary must be sent	through	 theofficer	 in-charge  except when this will cause	 delay.	  Italso directs the police officer to study carefully  sections162  and 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	 Nowhere  inthe rules is it stated that there is any statutory authorityfor  the  framing of rule 109, nor is it said  to  form	 anyaddition  to  a statute, even though some  other  rules	 areexpressly stated to be statutory ones.	Such being the case,it  is clear that rule 109 has no statutory' foundation	 butis  only  an injunction by the executive Government  to	 thepolice officers as to how they must regulate their work	 andconduct themselves during the course of investigation.Mr.  Jai  Gopal Sethi, who appeared for	 the  appellants  inCriminal  Appeal  No.  60 of 1956, 'and	 Dr.  Banerjee,	 whoappeared  for the appellant-accused No. 6, in Appeal No.  61of 1956, put their case in this way: According to the policeofficer P.W. 28, he recorded the statements of all the	eye-witnesses  before day-break, and in case the diary under  s.172 containing the statements recorded under s. 162 had beensent  to the superior police officers every day,  then	thatfact  would vouchsafe for the correctness of  that  documentand  it would not be possible for the officer to  change  oralter the statements of witnesses as it suited his desire ifhe  wanted to do so at a later stage.  In the  present	casesince  admittedly  the case diary and the  details  of	workduring	the  course of seven days had not been sent  to	 thesuperior  police  officers for a period of one week,  it  issuggested that it is possible that it might be considered  afalse  document because it was not prepared then  and  therecontaining  statements recorded as and when they were  made.In  that  case, both the learned counsel  contend  that	 theopportunity of cross-examinidg the witnesses and finding outwhether the names of the accused were given at the  earliestpoint  of time has been lost to the defence.  The result  ofthis,	according  to  the  learned  -counsel,	has   caused'irreparable   prejudice   which  cannot  be   condoned	  orregularised.But  the  learned counsel have not been able to show  to  usthat para. 109 of Ch.  XI of the Police Regulations has	 theforce  of law.	In this connection reference may be made  toCh.   XLV  of the Code of Criminal  Procedure  dealing	withillegal and irregular proceedings and to s. 529 laying	downirregularities	which do not vitiate proceedings,  while  s.530  concerns  irregularities  which  vitiate	proceedings.Section 537 is to the effect that subject to the  provisionscontained  in  the  previous sections  of  that	 Chapter  nofinding,  sentence or order passed by a Court  of  competentjurisdiction  shall be reversed or altered under Ch.   XXVIIor  on appeal or revision on account of among  other  thingsany  error,  omission  or  irregularity	 in  the  complaint,summons,  warrant,  proclamation, order, judgment  or  otherproceedings  before  or during trial or in  any	 inquiry  orother  proceedings under the Code.  There is an	 Explanationadded  that "in determining whether any error,	omission  orirregularity   in  any	proceeding  under  this	  Code	 hasoccasioned a failure of justice, the Court shall have regardto the fact whether the objection could and should have beenraised at an earlier stage in the proceedings".	 It is	truethat  the  objection was taken before the  learned  SessionsJudge and, therefore, the Explanation cannot be applied.  Inthese  circumstances  and  on the  footing  that  the  UttarPradesh Police Regulations, are merely directions  regardingthe course of conduct, can it be stated that a breach of  itwould vitiate the trial?  The Code of Criminal Procedure  inlaying	down  the omissions or irregularities  which  eithervitiate the proceedings or not does not anywhere744specifically  say  that	 a mistake  committed  by  a  policeofficer	 during the course of the investigation can be	saidto  be	an  illegality or  irregularity.   Investigation  iscertainly  not an inquiry or trial before the court and	 thefact  that there is no specific provision either way in	 ch.XLV  with respect to omissions or mistakes committed  duringthe  course  of	 investigation except  with  regard  to	 theholding	 of  an	 inquest is, in our  opinion,  a  sufficientindication  that  the legislature did  not  contemplate	 anyirregularity in investigation as of sufficient importance tovitiate	 or otherwise form any infirmity in the	 inquiry  ortrial.The  learned counsel for the State of Uttar Pradesh  invitedour attention to a few cases which show that even  violationof  the	 provisions  of the Code would	-not  amount  to  anillegality.The  decisions of their Lordships of the Judicial  Committeereported in Pulukuri Kotayya and otheers v. King-Emperor (1)and Zahiruddin v. King-Emperor (2) lay down that a breach ofsections  162  and  172 of the Code does not  amount  to  anillegality.  If therefore such an omission could not vitiatea  trial,  it is all the more reasonable that a	 failure  toconform	 to  a	rule  of conduct  prescribed  by  the  StateGovernment  on police officers cannot in any  way  interferewith  the legality of a trial.	That failure to	 investigatean  offence  does not necessarily prejudice an	accused	 andtherefore   any	  mistake   or	 omission   in	  conductinginvestigation  cannot vitiate a trial has been laid down  inHafiz  Mohammad Sani and Others v. Emperor(3).	At  p.	152,Adami J. observes as follows:-"There	can  be	 no  doubt that	 the  Sub-Inspector  in	 hisprocedure  disobeyed certain provisions of the law, and	 forthat he could be punished, if the authorities deemed it fit,but  I cannot find that his failure was to the prejudice  ofthe  petitioners.   Nor can I see how  failure	properly  toconduct an investigation into an offence can vitiate a trialwhich	was   started  on  the	final	report	 after	 theinvestigation".(1) [1948] L.R. 74 I.A. 65.   (2) [1947) L.R. 74 I.A. 80,(3) A.I.R. 1931 Pat. 150,745We are in agreement with these observations.In a recent case reported in Tilkeshwar Singh and Others  v.The  State of Bihar(1), Venkatarama Ayyar J.  expressed	 theopinion	  that	"while	the  failure  to  comply  with	 therequirements of section 161(3) might affect the weight to beattached  to  the evidence of, the witnesses,  it  does	 notrender	it inadmissible".  He referred to the case of  BejoyChand  v. The State(2) and agreed with the  observations  ofthe  Calcutta High Court therein.  We have no hesitation  infollowing those observations.  Our attention was also  drawnto  the case of Gajanand and Others v. State of	 Uttar	Pra-desh(3),  which contains statements of law helpful  for	 thedecision of this case.We are not prepared to say that because P.W. 28 did not sendcopies of his diary to the superior officers every day,	 thesame should be considered as a suspicious document  unworthyof  credit.   The learned Judges of the High Court  and	 thecourt  of  first  instance  have  cast	no  doubt  upon	 thegenuineness of the case diary and that being the case it  isnot open to us without any compelling reasons to say that itis spurious or suspicious.  In the circumstances, we do	 notfeel justified in holding that the omission of P.W. 28 is  aviolation  of the provisions of a statute or a	rule  havingthe force of law which renders the trial invalid.Holding	 therefore the point on which the special leave	 hadbeen  granted,	against the appellants, we  order  that	 theappeals be dismissed.Appeals dismissed.(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 1043, 1047, 1048.(2)  A.I.R. 1950 Cal. 363.(3)  A.I R. 1954 B.C. 695, 699.746