PETITIONER:A.   THANGAL KUNJU MUSALIAR	Vs.RESPONDENT:M.   VENKITACHALAM POTTI AND ANOTHER(with connected appeal)DATE OF JUDGMENT:20/12/1955BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, SUDHI RANJANBOSE, VIVIANJAGANNADHADAS, B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.CITATION: 1956 AIR  246		  1955 SCR  (2)1196ACT:Constitution  of  India-Article	 14-Travancore	Taxation  onIncome	(Investigation	Commission)  Act,  1124(Act  XIV  of1124),	s.  5(1)-Whether ultra vires  the  Constitution-Readalong with s. 47(1) of Travancore Income-Tax Act, 1121	(ActXXIII  of  1121)High Court-Jurisdiction-Article 226  of	 theConstitution-Writ   Petition  against  authorise   Official-Appointed  under s. 6 of the Travancore Act (XIV  of  1124)-Investigation	Commission-Whether   competent	 under	 theprovisions of the Travancore Act XIV of 1124 to	 investigatecases not referred to it by Government.HEADNOTE:The petitioners native of Quilon within the Travancore State-had  been  assessed to income-tax for the  years  1942	 and1943, the final orders in his assessment having been  passedby  the	 Chief Revenue authority of Travancore	in  December1946 and November 1946 respectively.  Travancore Taxation onIncome	(Investigation	Commission) Act, 1124  (Act  XIV  of1124)  modelled on the Indian Act XXX of 1947 was passed  bythe Travancore Legislature, to provide for an  investigationinto matters relating to taxation on income.  In July 1949 ,the  United State of Travancore and Cochin was brought	intoexistence as a result of integration between the two States.All existing laws of Travancore were to continue in force byvirtue of Ordinance I of 1124 which was later enacted as ActVI of 1125.  In November 1949 the Government of the  'UnitedState of Travancore-1197Cochin issued orders under s. 5(1) of the Travancore Act XIVof 1 124 referring the cases of the petitioner for the years1942 and 1943 (called Evasion Cases Nos. 1 & 2 of 1125)	 forinvestigation  by  the Travancore  Income-Tax  InvestigationCommission.  Before the Commission could make its report theConstitution  of India came into force and the United  Stateof  Travancore-Cochin became a part of India (Part B  State)and  the Travancore Act XIV of 1124 was continued  in  forceuntil altered, amended or repealed by a competent authority.In  April 1950 Parliament passed Act XXXIII of 1950  wherebyTaxation on Income (Investigation Commission) Act, (Act	 XXXof  1947) was extended to Travancore-Cochin and the  law  ofTravancore corresponding to Act XXX of 1947 was to  continuein  force  with certain modifications.	In October  1951,  anotification  issued by the Indian Investigation  Commissionappointed  Respondent No. 1 as an authorised official  unders.  6 of Travancore Act XIV of 1124 read with Act XXXIII  of1950.  Respondent No. I sent a copy of that notification  tothe  petitioner on 21st November, 1951 for  his	 informationand further intimated to him that the investigation proposedto  be conducted will not be confined to the years 1942	 and1943  but that it would be necessary for him to	 investigatethe petitioner's income for the period from 1940 to the lastcompleted assessment year.The petitioner filed a writ petition in the Travancore	HighCourt against Respondent No. I and Respondent No. 2  (IndianIncome-Tax   Investigation   Commission)  for  a   writ	  ofprohibition  or any other writ prohibiting  the	 Respondentsfrom holding an enquiry into the cases registered as EvasionCases  Nos. 1 & 2 of 1126 or from holding  an  investigationinto the income of the petitioner from the year 1940 to	 thelast  completed assessment year.  The Travancore High  Courtheld  that the Respondent No. 2 had all the powers that	 theTravancore  Commission had under Travancore Act XIV of	1124and  no	 more and granted the writ  prohibiting	 respondentsfrom  conducting an enquiry into years other than  1942	 and1943.	Both  the  parties appealed  to	 the  Supreme  Courtagainst	 the  order  of	 the  High  Court.   A	 preliminaryobjection to the jurisdiction of the High Court to entertainthe  writ petition was repeated in the Supreme Court by	 theAttorney-General.Held, that the High Court bad jurisdiction under Art. 226 ofthe  Constitution to issue a writ against Respondent  No.  1because	 under the provisions of s. 6 of the Travancore	 ActXIV  of 1124 the authorised official (Respondent No. 1)	 hadconsiderable powers conferred upon him in the conduct of theinvestigation, and if he did anything as authorised officialwhich  was  not authorised by law or was  violative  of	 thefundamental rights of the petitioner as in the present	casebe  would be amenable to the jurisdiction of the High  Courtunder Art. 226 of the Constitution.Held,  further that under the provisions of  the  TravancoreAct  XIV  of  1124  the	 Commission  had  no  authority	 'toinvestigate  any case suo motu.	 It could  only	 investigatecases referred to it by1198Government.  All that was done in the present case was	thatby  two	 separate orders made under s. 5(1) of the  Act	 theGovernment referred two cases of the petitioner for the	 twoyears  1942 and 1943 to the Commission.	 There was no  otherorder  under s. 5(1) at any time before 16th  February	1950and  none  could be made under that sub-section	 after	thatdate.  Therefore neither Respondent No. 2 nor Respondent No.1   who	 had  been  appointed  as  authorised  Official	  byRespondent No. 2 had jurisdiction to cover any period beyondthe  two specific years 1942 and 1943 and the  notice  dated21st November 1951 issued by Respondent No. 1 to investigatethe petitioner's income for the period from 1940 to the lastcompleted  assessment year was clearly illegal	and  withoutjurisdiction.Held,  also that s. 5(1) of the Travancore Act XIV  of	1124which  is  to be read in juxta-position with s.	 47  of	 theTravancore  Inc6me-Tax	Act,  1121 (XXIII of  1121)  is	 notdiscriminatory	and  violative	of  the	 fundamental   rightguaranteed under Art. 14 of the Constitution.Section	 47(1)	of  the Travancore Act	XXIII  of  1121	 wasdirected only against those persons concerning whom definiteinformation  came  into the possession	of  the,  Income-taxOfficer	 and in consequence of which the Income-tax  Officerdiscovered  that the income of those persons had escaped  orbeen  under-assessed  or assessed at too low a rate  or	 hadbeen the subject of excessive relief.  The class of  personsenvisaged by s. 47(1) was a definite class about which therewas definite information leading to discovery within 8 yearsor  4 years as the case may be of definite item or items  ofincome which had escaped assessment.  The action to be takenunder  Travancore  Act	XXIII of 1121 was  not	confined  toescapement  from  assessment of income made during  the	 warperiod	(September 1939 to 1946).  Action could be taken  inrespect	 of income which escaped assessment even before	 thewar and also more than 8 years after the end of the war.On the other hand under s. 5(1) of the Travancore Act XIV of1124  the  class of persons sought to be  reached  comprisedonly  these  persons  about  whom  there  was  no   definiteinformation  and no discovery of any definite item or  itemsof  income  which  escaped  taxation  but  about  whom	 theGovernment had only prima facie reason to believe that	theyhad evaded payment of tax to a substantial amount.  Further,action under s. 5(1) read with s. 8(2) of the Travancore ActXIV of 1124 was definitely limited to the evasion of paymentof  taxation  on  income  made during  the  war	 period	 andtherefore s. 5(1) of the Travancore Act XIV of 1124 was	 notdiscriminatory in comparison with s. 47(1) of the TravancoreAct XXIII of 1121.Election  Commission,  India  v. Saka  Venkata	Rao  ([1953]S.C.R.	1144),	K.  S.	Rashid	&  Son	v.  The	  Income-taxInvestigation  Commission, etc. ([1954] S.C.R.	738),  AzmatUllah v. Custodian, Evacuee Property, U.P., Lucknow  (A.I.R.1955 All, 435), Burhanpur1199National   Textile  Workers  Union,  Burhanpur	 v.   LabourAppellate  Tribunal  of India at Bombay and  others  (A.I.R.1955  Rag.  148), Joginder Singh Waryam Singh  v.  Director,Rural Rehabilitation, Pepsu, Patiala and others (A.I.R. 1955Pepsu  91),  Chiranjit Lal Chowdhuri v. The Union  of  India([1950]	 S.C.R.	 869), Budhan Chowdhury and  others  v.	 TheState  of Bihar ([1955] 1 S.C.R. 1045), Suraj Mall  Mohta  &Co. v. A. V. Visvanatha Sastri and another ([1955] 1  S.C.R.448),  Shree  Meenakshi Mills Ltd. v. Sri A.  V.  VisvanathaSastri	and  Another  ([1955] 1 S.C.R.	787),  Aswini  KumarGhose's	 case  ([1953] S.C.R. 1), Subodh Gopal	Bose's	case([1954] S.C.R. 587, 628), Kathi Baning Bawat v. The State ofSaurashtra  ([1952] S.C.R. 435), Palser v. Grinling  ([1948]A.C. 291) and Kedar Nath Bajoria v.	The  State  of	WestBengal ([1954] S.C.R. 30), referred to.JUDGMENT: CIVIL	APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 21 and  22 of 1954. Appeals  under	 Article 133(1) (c) of	the  Constitution  of India	from the judgment and order dated the 18th  September 1953 of the Travancore-Cochin High Court at Ernakulam in  O. P. No. 41 of 1952. M.K.  Nambiar,	 (N.  Palpu, Sri Narain Andley	and  Rajinder Narain)  for  the  appellant in C. A. No.  21	of  1954  and respondent in C. A. No. 22 of 1954. M.C. Setalvad, Attorney-General of India (G.  N. Joshi),  R. Ganapathy  Iyer, Porus A. Mehta and R. H. Dhebar),  for  the respondents in C. A. No. 21 of 1954 and appellants in C.  A. No. 22 of 1954. 1955.	December 20.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered by BHAGWATI  J.-These  two  appeals  with	 certificates	under article  133  of  the Constitution are	 directed  against  a judgment  of  the High Court of TravancoreCochin in  a	 writ petition filed by one A. Thangal Kunju Musaliar, hereinafter called the petitioner. The  petitioner is a native of Quilon within the  Travancore State	which  was originally under the	 sovereignty  of  the Maharaja  of  Travancore.  He is the  Managing	 Director  of Messrs A. Thangal Kunju.  Musaliar & Sons Ltd., Quilon,  and bad been assessed to income-tax for the years 1942 and	 1943 and  the final orders in his assessment for the  said	years were 1200 passed	 by the Chief Revenue Authority of Travancore on  the 6th December 1946 and 30th November 1946 respectively. On the 7th March 1949, the Travancore Legislature passed Act XIV  of 1124 (M.E.) modelled on our Act XXX of 1947,  styled the Travancore Taxation on Income (Investigation Commission) Act,  1124,  to provide for an	 investigation	into  matters relating  to  taxation on income.  Section 1(3) of  the  Act provided that it was to come into force on such date as  the Travancore Government may by notification in the  Government Gazette  appoint.   'Under  section 3, a  Commission  to  be called	 the  Income-tax Investigation Commission was  to  be constituted inter alia to investigate in accordance with the provisions  of the Act cases referred to it under section  5 and report thereon to the Government.	The Commission was to be appointed to act in the first instance up to the last day of  Karkadakom	 1125  (16-8-1950)  but	 the  Government  was empowered to extend its appointment to any period up to  the last  day  of	Karkadakom 1126	 (16-8-1951).	Section	 5(1) enacted  that the Government might, at any time  before  the last day of Makaram 1125 (15-2-1950) refer to the Commission for investigation and report any case or points in a case in which the Government had prima facie reasons for belief that a  person had to a substantial extent evaded payment of  tax on income together with such material as might be  available in support of such belief.  Section 6 prescribed the  powers of   the  Commission  and  inter  alia	 provided   for	  the appointment  by the Commission of an authorised official  to examine accounts or documents, interrogate persons or obtain statements from persons. On  the 1st July; 1949, the Travancore State and the  Cochin State integrated with each other and there was brought	 into existence  the	 United State of Travancore and	 Cochin.   By virtue	 of Ordinance I of 1124 promulgated on the same	 day, called the United State of Travancore and Cochin Administra- tion  and Application of Laws Ordinance, 1124	(Ordinance  I was enacted later as Act VT of 1125),	1201all  existing laws of Travancore were to continue  in  forcetill  altered, amended or repealed by  competent  authority.The  existing law of Travancore was defined to mean any	 lawin force in the State of Travancore immediately prior to the1st July 1949.  On the 26th July 1949, a notification was published in theTravancore-Cochin Government Gazette whereby, in exercise ofthe  powers  conferred	by section 1(3)	 of  the  TravancoreTaxation oN Income Investigation Commission) Act XIV of 1124as continued in force By the United State of Travancore	 andCochin Administration & Application of Laws (Ordinance, 1124(I  of	1124), the Government appointed the  7th  Karkadakom1124 (22-7-1949) to be the date on which the said Act was Tohave come into force.  On  the  26th November 1949 the Government of	 the  UnitedState  of Travancore and Cochin issued orders under  section5(1)  of the Travancore Act XIV of 1124 referring the  casesof   the  petitioner  for  the	years  1942  and  1943	 forinvestigation  by  the Travancore  Income-tax  InvestigationCommission.   These  orders had specific  reference  to	 theyears 1942 and 1943 and the investigation to be made by	 theCommission was with reference to the alleged evasion of	 taxby  the	 petitioner for those respective years.	  The  caseswere registered as Evasion Cases I and 2 of 1125.  On the 10th December 1949 the petitioner received from theSecretary  of the Commission a notice in regard to the	saidcases.	The relevant portion of the said notice stated:  "Whereas  the Income-tax Investigation  Commission  havingbeen informed that a substantial portion of your income	 for1942   and   1943  has	escaped	 assessment,   has   orderedinvestigation  into the matter, you are hereby	required  toproduce	 the  following on or before 21-12-1949	 before	 theCommission.1.   The account books (day books and ledgers) for the years1942 and 1943.2.	  ....		.....		    .......3.	  .....		.....		     .......4.	  .....		......		      .......12025.     .....	  ......	 .....6.    ....	  .....		.....  Pursuant  to	this  notice  the  petitioner  produced	 therelevant  books	 and  the  Commission  duly  completed	 itsinvestigation  under the terms of the Travancore Act XIV  of1124.  Before the Commission could, however, make its report, theConstitution  of India came into force on the  26th  January1950 and the United State of Travancore and Cochin became  apart of the territory of India,, forming, a Part 'B'  State.Under  article	372(1) of the Constitution,  the  TravancoreTaxation  on  Income (Investigation  Commission)  Act,	1124(Travancore  Act XIV of 1124) was continued in force  "untilaltered, amended or replaced by a competent authority"   An  Indian  States  Finance Enquiry	Committee  had	beenappointed  in  1948-49 and it had made	its  recommendationsregarding  the	agreements to be entered  into	between	 thePresident  of  the Union and the Rajpramukhs  in  regard  tofinancial    arrangements.    In   accordance	 with	 therecommendations	 of the Committee, an agreement was  enteredinto on the 25th February 1950 between the President of	 theUnion  and the Rajpramukh of Travancore-Cochin in regard  tothese  matters and on the 31st March 1950 the  Finance	Act,1950  (Act  XXV	 of 1950) came into  force  and	 the  IndianIncome-tax   Act,  1922	 (XI  of  1922)	 was   extended	  toTravancore-Cochin.  On  the  18th	 April	1950, the  Opium  and  Revenue	Laws(Extension  of Application) Act, 1950, being Act  XXXIII  of1950,  was  passed by Parliament  extending  to	 Travancore-Cochin	the  Taxation on Income	 (Investigation	 commission)Act,  1947 (XXX of 1947) and section 3 of that Act  providedthat the law of Travancore corresponding to the Taxation  onIncome	(Investigation Commission) Act, 1947 (XXX  of  1947)shall  continue	 to  remain  in	 force	with  the  followingmodifications, viz.,   (a)	  that	all cases referred to or pending before	 theState  Commission  (by whatever name called) in	 respect  ofmatters relating to taxation on income1203other  than agricultural income shall stand  transferred  tothe Central Commission for disposal; and   (b)	  that the State law shall, so far as may be,  applyto  determine the procedure that may be followed and  powersthat  may  be  exercised by the Central	 Commission  in	 thedisposal of cases transferred under clause (a).   The Travancore Commission bad been appointed in the firstinstance  to  act  up to the last -day	of  Karkadakom	1125116-8-1950).   Neither	the Travancore	Commission  nor	 theIndian	Commission  to which the pending  cases	 before	 theTravancore Commission were transferred as aforesaid made anyreport on these cases of the petitioner before the expiry ofthis period nor was any extension of the term of appointmentof  the	 Travancore Commission made up to the  last  day  ofKarkadakom 11 26 (16-8-1951) as originally contemplated.  Onthe 25th August 1951, therefore, the Opium and Revenue	Laws(Extension  of Application) Amendment Act, 1951,  being	 ActXLIV of 1951, was passed amending Act XXXIII of 1950 wherebyit was provided that in the place of clause (b) of section 3of  Act	 XXXIII	 of  1960, the	following  clause  shall  besubstituted  and  shall	 be  deemed  always  to	 have	beensubstituted, viz., "in the disposal of cases transferred  tothe  Central  Commission,  the	Commission  shall  have	 andexercise  the  same powers as it has and  exercises  in	 theinvestigation of cases referred to it under the Taxation  onIncome	(Investigation Commission) Act, 1947 (XXX  of  1947)and  shall  be entitled to act for same term as	 under	sub-section	 (3)  of section 4 of that Act" and it	was  furtherprovided  that	any  decision given  by	 the  Chief  RevenueAuthority  of  Travancore or of Travancore-Cochin  shall  bedeemed	a  decision  of the  Income-tax	 Authority  for	 thepurposes  of sub-section (2) of section 8 of the  TravancoreAct XIV of 1124.   On  the 18th October 1951, a notification was  issued  bythe Indian Income-tax Investigation Commission appointing M.Venkitachalam  Potty,  Income-tax Officer on  Special  Duty,Trivandrum, as an1521204authorised  official  under  section  6	 of  the  TravancoreTaxation on Income (Investigation Commission) Act, 1124 readwith   Act  XXXIII  of	1950.	The   authorised   official,hereinafter  referred to as respondent 1, forwarded  to	 thepetitioner  on the 21st November 1951 for his information  acopy of that notification, investing him with the powers  ofan authorised official and intimated that the  investigationproposed  to be conducted will not be confined to the  years1942  and 1943, the two years originally covered by  EvasionCases  Nos. 1 and 2 of 1125 but that it would  be  necessaryfor  him  to  investigate the petitioner's  income  for	 theperiod	from  1940  to the last	 completed  assessment	yearnotwithstanding the fact that the erstwhile State Commissionhad not specifically intimated to him that they proposed  tocover the full period. The  petitioner,  by his registered letter dated  the	23rdFebruary 1952 pointed out to respondent 1 the illegality  ofthe steps proposed to be taken by him to which, however, thelatter	replied	 by  his letter dated the  13th	 March	1952stating	 that  he proposed to consider income for  the	fullinvestigation period, viz., from 1940 to the last  completedassessment year. The  petitioner thereupon filed on the 6th May 1952 a	writpetition in the High Court of Travancore-Cochin, being 0. P.41  of 1952 against respondent 1 as also the Indian  Income-tax Investigation Commission, hereinafter called  respondent2,  for a writ of prohibition or any other appropriate	writor  direction prohibiting the respondents from	holding	 anyenquiry	 into the cases registered as Evasion Cases Nos.   Iand  2	of  1125 on the	 file  of  Income-tax  InvestigationCommission  of Travancore or from holding any  investigationinto  the  income of the petitioner from 1940  to  the	lastcompleted assessment year or for any other period.  Respondent  1	 filed a counter-affidavit in which  it	 wasinter alia submitted:    "that the Commission by these proceedings is not  tryingto  clutch  at non-existent jurisdiction.   They  are  fullyprepared  to shape their proceedings in accordance with	 thedirections of this Hon'ble Court".1205   This	 affidavit  was	 stated to have been  filed  as	 theanswer of both the counter-petitioners, viz., respondents  Iand  2	and  respondent	 I stated that	he  had	 been  fullyauthorised to do so.The  writ petition was heard by a Bench of three  Judges  ofthe  High Court consisting of K. T. Koshi, C. J. and  P.  K.Subramonia Iyer and M. S. Menon, JJ. The learned Judges heldthat  respondent  2 bad all the powers that  the  TravancoreCommission  had under the Travancore Act XIV of 1124 and  no-mote and accordingly issued a writ prohibiting respondent Ifrom conducting an investigation into years other than	1942and 1943 observing that any attempt to enlarge the scope  ofthe enquiry was without legislative warrant. The petitioner appealed in so far as the order of the	HighCourt  was against him permitting the enquiry for the  years1942 and 1943, his appeal being Civil Appeal No. 21 of 1954.Respondents  I and 2 appealed against the order of the	HighCourt  in  so  far  as	it  prohibited	respondent  1	fromconducting  investigation  for	the  years  which  were	 notcovered	 by the Evasion Cases Nos.  I and 2 of	1125,  theirappeal being Civil Appeal No. 22 of 1954. Both  these  appeals came for hearing	and  final  disposalbefore	us on the 20th September 1955.	After the  argumentshad   proceeded	 for  some  time  Shri	Nambiyar,  for	 thepetitioner,  asked  for leave to  urge	additional  grounds,viz.,  (a) that section 5(1) of Travancore Act XIV  of	1124was   ultra  vires  under  articles  14	 and  19,   of	 theConstitution,  and (b) that in particular,the  said  section5(1) infringed article 14 of the Constitution inasmuch as itwas not based on any rational classification whatsoever, andthe word "substantial" therein could not possibly be  deemedto  be any form of classification.  On, our giving him	suchleave	the   learned	Attorney-General,   appearing	 forrespondents  I and 2 asked for time to put in  an  affidavitshowing	 the background against which Travaneore Act XIV  of1124  bad  been passed by the, Travancore  Legislature.	  Anaffidavit was accordingly filed before us by Gauri  Shanker,Secretary of1206respondent  2 setting out facts and events as and by way  ofanswer to these new contentions of the petitioner. A  preliminary	 objection to the jurisdiction of  the	HighCourt  to  entertain  the writ petition may  be	 dealt	withfirst.	 This  objection  was  not  taken  in  the  counter-affidavit  filed by the respondents, they  having  expressedtheir  readiness to shape their proceeding,s  in  accordancewith  the  directions of the Court.  The  learned  Advocate-General of Travancore-Cochin, however, urged before the HighCourt  that  the Court was not competent  to  entertain	 thepetition  in  view  of the fact that respondent	 2  was	 notamenable  to i s jurisdiction and the argument was  that  asrespondent  2  functioned outside the State  of	 Travancore-Cochin and respondent I was a mere subordinate of respondent2  it was beyond the competence of the High Court  to  grantthe  prayer  embodied  in  the	petition.   The	 High  Courtoverruled  the	objection observing that  respondent  I	 wasresident within the State of Travancore- Cochin, his  officewas  situated at Trivandrum, all his communications  to	 thepetitioner  had	 emanated  from within	the  State  and	 theactivities complained about were activities confined to	 theState.	 It  was  of  the opinion that	the  prayer  in	 thepetition was, in essence, a prayer to paralyse the hands  ofrespondent I and thus prevent the mischief and that, by	 hisresidence  and the location of his office within the  State,respondent 1 was clearly amenable to the jurisdiction of theCourt under article 226 of the Constitution.  It was furtherof  opinion that the writ against respondent 1,	 if  issued,was  sufficient for stopping the mischief  complained  aboutand therefore it was unnecessary for it to decide whether ornot  a	writ  could be issued so far  as  respondent  2	 wasconcerned.   It,  therefore, issued the	 necessary  writ  ofprohibition against respondent 1. The  learned  Attorney-General	 pressed  this	 preliminaryobjection at the outset while arguing Civil Appeal No. 22 of1954.	He pointed out that respondent 2 had its  office  inNew  Delhi  and was permanently located there and  the	merefact of its having appointed res-1207pondent 1 to function and carry on the investigation  withinthe State. of Travancore under its direction did not make itamenable  to  the  jurisdiction of  the	 High'	Court.	 He,therefore, contended that the High Court had no jurisdictionto  entertain  the writ petition against  respondent  2.  Hefurther	  contended  that  the	High  Court  could  not	  doindirectly  what it was not able to do directly and that  itcould not issue any writ of prohibition against respondent 1either even though he had his office at Trivandrum and had apermanent location within the jurisdiction of the High Courtinasmuch  as  he was merely an arm of respondent 2  and	 anywrit  issued against him would have the indirect  effect  ofprohibiting  respondent	 2 from	 exercising  its  legitimatefunctions   within  the	 ambit	of  its	 powers	 under	 theTravancore  Act XIV of 11 24 read with Act XXX of  1950	 andAct XLIV of 1951.Reliance was placed by him on the decision of this Court  inElection Commission, India v. Saka Venkata Rao(1).     Therespondent in that case bad applied to	the  High  Court  ofMadras under article 226 for a writ restraining the ElectionCommission,   a	 statutory  authority  constituted  by	 thePresident  and having its office permanently located at	 NewDelhi, from enquiring into his alleged disqualification	 formembership  of the Assembly, and a single Judge of the	HighCourt  had  issued  a writ of  prohibition  restraining	 theElection Commission from doing so.  The Election  Commissionfiled  an appeal to this Court and agitated the question  ofthe  jurisdiction  of the High Court under  article  226  toissue the writ against it.  While discussing this  question,Patanjali  Sastri, C.J., who delivered the judgment  of	 theCourt, observed as under:-  "But	wide as were the powers thus conferred,	 a  two-foldlimitation  was	 placed upon their exercise.  In  the  firstplace,	the  power  is	to  be	exercised  "throughout	the,territories in relation to which it exercises jurisdiction",that  is  to say, the writs issued by the Court	 cannot	 runbeyond	 the  territories  subject  to	 its   jurisdiction.Secondly, the person or authority to(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 1144.1208whom the High Court is empowered to issue such writs must be"within those territories", Which clearly implies that	theymust be am-enable to its jurisdiction either by residence orlocation within those territories". The  learned  Chief  Justice then  traced  the	 origin	 anddevelopment.  of the power to issue prerogative writs  as  aspecial remedy in England and observed at page 1151:-  "These  writs	 were  thus  specifically  directed  to	 thepersons	 or authorities against whom redress was sought	 andwere made returnable in the Court issuing them and, in	caseof   disobedience,  were  enforceable  by   attachment	 forcontempt.   These  characteristics of the  special  form  ofremedy rendered it necessary for its effective use that	 thepersons or authorities to whom the Court was asked to  issuethese  writs should be within the limits of its	 territorialjurisdiction".  The  mere  functioning,  of  the  tribunal  or   authoritypermanently located and normally carrying on its  activitieselsewhere, within the territorial limits was not  consideredsufficient to invest the High Court with jurisdiction  underarticle	 226  nor  was the accrual of the  cause  of  actionwithin	 the  territories  considered  sufficient  for	 thepurpose.   The residence or location within the	 territoriesof the person or authority was considered a condition of theHigh  Court  being empowered to issue such  writs  with	 theresult	that  the  Election  Commission	 having	 its  officepermanently  located at New Delhi was held not	amenable  tothe  jurisdiction of the High Court for the issue of a	writunder article 226. This  decision in Saka Venkata Rao's case was	followed  bythis  Court  in	 K.  S.	 Rashid	 &  Son	 v.  The  Income-taxInvestigation	Commission,  etc.(1).  In  that	 case,	 theassesses  who  were  within  the state	of  U.P.  and  whoseoriginal assessments were made by the income-tax authoritiesof  that State had filed writ petitions in the	Punjab	HighCourt  for  the	 issue of writs tinder article	226  to	 theIncome-tax  Investigation-Commission  located in  Delhi	 andinvestigating (1) [1954] S.C.R. 738.1209their  cases  under  -section 5 of the	Taxation  on  Income(Investigation Commission) Act, 1947.  The Punjab High Courthad   sustained	 the  objection	 urged	on  behalf  of	 therespondents to the effect that the assesses having  belongedto the State of U.P. their assessment was to be made by	 theIncome-tax Commissioner of that State and the mere fact thatthe  location of the Investigation Commission was  in  Delhiwould  not confer jurisdiction on the Punjab High  Court  toissue  writs  under  article  226  and	had  dismissed	 thepetitions.    This  Court,  on	appeal,	 distinguished	 thedecision in Parlakimidi's case which was sought to be reliedupon by the respondents before it and followed the  positionin law as it bad been enunciated in Saka Venkata Rao's case,supra, and held that the Punjab High Court had	jurisdictionto  issue  a  writ under article 226  to  the  InvestigationCommission  which was located in Delhi in spite of the	factthat  the assesses were within the State of U.P.  and  theiroriginal assessments were made by the income-tax authoritiesof that State.    The principle of these decisions would, it was urged  bythe learned Attorney-General, eliminate respondent 2 and theHigh  Court of Travancore-Cochin would have no	jurisdictionto entertain the writ petition against it.  It  was, however, urged on behalf of the petitioner  that,in  the	 affidavit  filed  by  the  respondents,  both	 therespondents  had submitted that they were fully prepared  toshape their proceedings in accordance with the directions ofthe  Court.   This,  it	 was  submitted,  was  a   voluntarysubmission  to the jurisdiction of the High Court  investingthe  High Court with jurisdiction to issue the	appropriate,writ against respondent 2. We need not, however, express anyopinion on this point because no writ was in fact issued  bythe High Court against respondent 2 nor was any appeal filedby  the petitioner against that part of the decision of	 theHigh Court.   The real question, however, is whether a writ could issueagainst respondent 1 who is, it was submitted, a mere arm ofrespondent 2 and a writ against whom1210would  be  equivalent  to a writ issued by  the	 High  Courtagainst respondent 2 which it had no jurisdiction to do.  An  authorised official derives his appointment  from	 theCommission  under  section 6 of the Travancore	Act  XIV  of1124.	Section	 6(4)  of the Act provides that	 if  in	 thecourse	of any investigation conducted by the Commission  itappears	 to  the Commission to be necessary to	examine	 anyaccounts  or  documents or to interrogate any person  or  toobtain	any  statement from any person	the  Commission	 mayauthorise any income-tax authority not below the rank-of  anincome-tax  officer  (called the "authorised  official")  inthat  behalf subject to such directions as may be issued  bythe Commission from time to time and the authorised officialshall  examine	the accounts or documents,  interrogate	 thepersons	 and  obtain the statements from the  persons.	 Theauthorised  official  is  invested, under  section  6,	sub-section	 (5),  subject to the direction of  the	 Commission,with  the same powers as the Commission	 under	sub-sections(1), (2) and (3) which empower the Commission to require anyperson	or banking or other company to prepare	and  furnishwritten	  statements   of  accounts   and   affairs   givinginformation  on such points or matters as in the opinion  ofthe  Commission	 may  directly or indirectly  be  useful  orrelevant to any case referred to it; to administer oaths andexercise all powers of a Civil Court under the Code of CivilProcedure  for	the  purpose of	 taking	 evidence  on  oath,enforcing attendance of witnesses and of persons whose casesare  being investigated, compelling the production of  docu-ments  and  issuing  commissions  for  the  examination	  ofwitnesses and to impound and retain in its custody for	suchperiod	as it thinks fit any documents produced	 before	 it.The  authorised	 official is, under section  6,	 sub-section(10),  to have full and free access to all documents,  booksand  other papers which in his opinion are relevant  to	 theproceedings  in	 any  case or cases under  the	Act  and  ifspecially authorised in this behalf by the Commission to anybuildings  and	places where he may have reason	 to  believethat such books,1211documents  or papers may be found and also to have power  toplace  identification  marks  on such  books,  documents  orpapers	and  to make extracts or copies therefrom or  if  heconsiders it necessary to take possession of or seize  -suchbooks,	documents or papers.  Under section  6,	 sub-section(11),  the  authorised	official is deemed to  be  a  publicservant	 within the meaning of section 16 of the  TravancorePenal Code (I of 1074).  It is clear from the above provisions that the  authorisedofficial  has considerable powers conferred upon him in	 theconduct	 of  the investigation and even though he  could  becalled	a mere arm of the Commission or an authorised  agentof  the Commission, he has important functions to  dischargeand is not merely a mouth-piece of the Commission or a	con-duit-pipe  transmitting the orders or the directions of	 theCommission.   He is no doubt under the general	control	 andsupervision  of the Commission but he performs	the  variousfunctions  assigned to him on his own initiative and in	 theexercise of his discretion.  If, therefore, he does anythingin  the	 discharge of his functions as	authorised  officialwhich  is  not	authorised by law or  is  violative  of	 thefundamental  rights of the petitioner, he would be  amenableto the jurisdiction of the High Court under article 226. Even though this is the prima facie position, it was  urgedthat he is acting under the directions of the Commission  asits  authorised agent and as such no writ can issue  againsthim,  because the principal who directs the  activities	 andnot the agent would be liable for the same.  This contentionis  unsound.   There can be no agency in the matter  of	 thecommission  of a wrong.	 The wrong doer would  certainly  beliable	to be dealt with as the party  directly	 responsiblefor his wrongful action.  The relationship between principaland  agent  would  only	 be  relevant  for  the	 purpose  ofdetermining whether the principal also is vicariously liablefor  the wrong perpetrated by his agent.  On the analogy  ofcriminal liability, the1531212offender  could	 certainly not be heard to say that  he	 wascommitting the offence under the behest or directions of hisprincipal.  On the analogy of a civil wrong, the  tortfeasorcould certainly not protect himself against liability on theground of having committed the tort under the directions  ofhis principal.	Theagent could in no event exculpate himself from liability forthe  wrongful act done by him and if he is thus amenable  tothe  jurisdiction  of the High Court the  High	Court  couldcertainly  issue  an  appropriate  writ	 against  him  underarticle	  226.	 The  jurisdiction  under  article  226	  isexercised  by  the  High  Court	 in  order  to	protect	 andsafeguard  the rights of the citizens and wherever the	HighCourt finds that any person within its territories is guiltyof  doing  an  act  which is not authorised  by	 law  or  isviolative  of  the  fundamental rights of  the	citizen,  itexercises that jurisdiction in order to vindicate his rightsand  redress his grievances and the only conditions  of	 itsexercise  of  that jurisdiction are those laid down  in	 thepassage from Patanjali Sastri, C.J.'s judgment cited  above.The argument that by issuing a writ against the agent  underthose circumstances the High Court would be putting him in aposition  whereby  he  would be	 compelled  to	disobey	 thedirections  of	his principal is also of no  avail  for	 thesimple	reason	that an agent is bound to  obey	 all  lawfuldirections  of	his principal and not directions  which	 theHigh  Court  holds to be unlawful or not justified  in	law.The agent could certainly be prohibited from obeying the un-lawful directions of his principal and even if the principalcannot	be  reached  by	 reason of  his	 being	outside	 theterritories,  the arm of the law could certainly  reach	 theagent  who is guilty of having committed the wrong  and	 theHigh  Court could certainly issue a writ against  him  underarticle 226.  It  was  further  contended that by issuing  such  a	writagainst	 the  authorised official the High  Court  would  beindirectly  prohibiting the Commission from  conducting	 theinvestigation  within the territories even though  it  couldnot directly prohibit the Com-1213mission	 from  doing  so.   If	the  Commission	 was   doingsomething  within  the territories  through  its  authorisedofficial which was not justified in law, it would not lie inthe  mouth  of the Commission to urge that  the	 High  Courtcould not issue a writ of prohibition against its agent, theauthorised  official,  who had his  residence  or  permanentlocation  within the territories merely because it would  beindirectly  prohibited from perpetrating a wrong within	 theterritories.   The principal could, in no event,  urge	thathis  agent should be allowed to function for him within	 theterritories  in a manner which was not warranted by  law  orhad no justification in law.  It is expected that once	thisCourt  has  declared the law  the  Investigation  Commissionwould comply with it and not place its agent in the wrong bydirecting him to act contrary to the law so declared.   Our	attention was drawn by the learned  Attorney-Generalin  this  connection to three recent decisions of  the	HighCourts	of Allahabad, Nagpur and Pepsu which,  according  tohim,   supported  his  contention,  viz.,  Azmat  Ullah	  v.Custodian,  Evacuee  Property, U.P.,  Lucknow(1),  BurhanpurNational   Textile  Workers  Union,  Burhanpur	 v.   LabourAppellate  Tribunal  of India at Bombay	 and  others(2)	 andJoginder    Singh   Waryam   Singh   v.	  Director,    RuralRehabilitation,	  Pepsu,  Patiala  and	 others(2).    Thesedecisions, however, are clearly not in point for, in each ofthem,	the  order  passed  by	the  authority	within	 theterritories  and accordingly within the jurisdiction of	 theHigh Court concerned had merged in the order of the superiorauthority which was located outside the territories and was,therefore,  beyond the jurisdiction of that High Court.	  Inthat situation, a writ against the inferior authority withinthe  territories  could	 be of no avail	 to  the  petitionerconcerned and could give him no relief for the order of	 thesuperior  authority  outside the  territories  would  remainoutstanding  and operative against him.	 As,  therefore,  nowrit  could be issued against that outside authority and  asthe(1) A.I.R. 1955 All. 435.  (2) A.I.R. 1955 Nag. 148. (3) A.I.R. 1955 Pepsu 91.1214orders	against the authority within the territories  would,in  view of the orders of the superior authority, have	beeninfructuous, the High Court concerned had, of necessity,  todismiss	 the petition.	Such, however, was not the  positionin the present petition before the High Court of Travancore-Cochin.	  There	 was  here  no question	 of  merger  of	 anyjudicial  order of respondent I into the judicial  order  ofrespondent  2.	In  this  case	respondent  1  was  actuallyclaiming  to exercise powers conferred upon him	 by  certainsections  of  the Travancore Act XIV of 1124 which,  it	 wassubmitted,  were  contrary  to	law  or	 discriminatory	 andconsequently  ultra vires the Constitution.  The  fact	thatrespondent  1  was the agent of respondent  2,	which  beingbeyond	its  jurisdiction could not be reached by  the	HighCourt, could not make his acts any the less objectionable ordiscriminatory	and  ultra vires.  It is sufficient  to	 saythat if his action was contrary to law-or if the  provisionsof law under which he was claiming to act became, after	 thecommencement  of the Constitution, void under article  13(1)as being repugnant to article 14 and the doer of the illegalact  was within the reach of the High Court, the High  Courthad  jurisdiction under article 226 to issue a writ  againstrespondent I and thereby prevent further infringement of thepetitioner's fundamental rights.  The preliminary  objectionurged by the learned Attorney-General against the  jurisdic-tion of the High Court, therefore, fails.   The	next  question canvassed in Civil Appeal No.  22  of1954  was that respondent 2 was entitled to investigate	 thealleged	 evasion of tax by the petitioner not only  for	 theyears  1942 and 1943 but also the other years from  1940  tothe  last completed assessment year.  The decision  of	thisquestion  turns	 on  a construction of	the  terms,  of	 thereferences  made  by the Government of the United  State  ofTravancore  and Cochin under section 5(1) of the  TravancoreAct XIV of 1124.  A report dated the 17th November 1949	 hadbeen  made by the Board of Revenue in regard to the  income-tax  assessment	 of the petitioner for the years 11  19	 and1120(M.E.) and two orders were passed1215on the 26th November 1949 by the Government on -the strengthof  that  report.   The first of  these	 orders	 related  totaxation on the petitioner's income for 1119 and the  secondrelated to the taxation on his income for 1120.	 The  returnof income for the year ending the 31st December 1942 was thesubject-matter of the first order and after setting out	 thematerials  in the order the Government stated that they	 hadprima facie reasons for believing that the petitioner had toa substantial extent evaded payment of tax on his income for1119  and  they	 considered that this was  a  fit  case	 forreference to the Income-tax Investigation 'Commission  undersection	 5(1) of the Act.  The second order referred to	 thepetitioner's  return of income for the year ending the	31stDecember 1943 and after ,setting out the materials, wound upsimilarly  by  stating that the Government had	Prima  faciereasons	  for  believing  that	the  petitioner	 bad  to   asubstantial  extent evaded payment of tax on his income	 for1120  and they considered that this was a fit case for	ref-erence	to  the Income-tax  Investigation  Commission  undersection 5(1) of the Act.   A cursory perusal of the Travancore Act XIV of 1124	willshow that the Commission had no authority to investigate anycase suo motu.	It could only investigate cases referred  toit  by the Government.	Thus under section 5(1),  Governmentmight  refer to it for investigation and report any case  orpoints	in  a case in which the Government had	prima  faciereasons	 for  believing that a person had to  a	 substantialextent	 evaded	 payment  of  taxation	on   income.	Suchreference, however, could be made at anytime before the 16thFebruary  1950 but not later.  Again, under sub-section	 (4)of the same section, if in the course of investigation	intoany  case  or  points in a case referred to  it	 under	sub-section	 (1) the Commission bad reason to believe that	someother  person  had evaded payment of taxation on  income  orsome  other points required investigation, it might  make  areport to the Government and the Government would  forthwithrefer  to the Commission for investigation the case of	suchother person or such additional points as might1216be  indicated  in  that report.	 All that was  done  in	 thepresent	 case  was that by two separate	 orders	 made  undersection 5(1) of the Act the Government referred two cases ofthe  petitioner	 for  the two years 1942  and  1943  to	 theCommission and they were registered as Evasion Cases Nos.  1and 2 of 1125.	There was no other order under section	5(1)at any time before the 16th February 1950 and none could  bemade  under  that sub-section after that date.	It  was	 notsuggested that there was any report by the Commission or anyreference  of any case or additional points in a case  undersection	  5(4).	  It  was,  therefore,	contended  for	 thepetitioner  that  the  Commission  had	no  jurisdiction  toenquire	 into  any  alleged evasion in	any  year  prior  orsubsequent  to	the  years  1942  and  1943.   The   learnedAttorney-General,  on  the other hand,	contended  that	 theGovernment could, under section 5(1) of the Act, only  referthe  case of the petitioner who was reasonably suspected  tohave  evaded the tax and, therefore, the whole case  of	 thepetitioner for all the years referred to in section 8(2)  ofthe  Act was the subject-matter of the	investigation  whichbad been entrusted to the Commission.  We  are unable to accept this contention.   Under  section5(1)  the  Government could refer any case or  points  in  acase.	There is nothing in that sub-section which  requiresthat  a	 "case" referred thereunder must  cover	 the  entireperiod	mentioned in section 8(2).  Indeed,  the  Governmentmight have reason to believe that an assessee evaded the taxonly in, say, two years and not in others and in such a casethe  Government could only refer the case for  investigationof  evasion during those two years only but could not  referany case for other years as to which they had no  reasonablebelief Therefore, in such a situation the reference must  belimited	 to  the particular years in which the	evasion	 wasbelieved  to  have  taken place.   It  makes  no  differencewhether one calls the matter referred a "case" or "points ina case".  It follows, therefore, that, in order to ascertainwhether,  in a given case, the reference covers	 the  entireperiod or only a shorter period, one has only to look at theorder1217of  reference.	 The operative parts of the  two  orders  ofreference  dated the 26th November 1949 in the present	caseclearly record the fact that the Government had prima  faciereasons	  for  believing  that	the  petitioner	 had  to   asubstantial extent evaded payment of taxation on his  incomefor 1119 and 1120 (M.E.) and that they considered that "thiswas a fit case for reference to the Income-tax InvestigationCommission under section 5(1) of Act XIV of 1124".  What wasa  fit	case  for reference was described  as  "this"  whichclearly referred back to the evasion of payment on  taxationon income for the two specific years in the two orders.	  Itis,   therefore,  clear	 that  neither	respondent   2	 norrespondent  I  who was appointed an authorised	official  byrespondent  2  had jurisdiction to cover any  period  beyondthose specific years 1942 and 1943 and the notice which	 wasissued	by  respondent	I on the  21st	November  1951	was,therefore,  not	 warranted  by law.   Respondent  I  had  nowarrant	 or authority whatever for issuing the	said  noticeand  we are of the opinion that the High Court was right  inthe  conclusion	 to  which  it	-came  that  the  action  ofrespondent  1 was clearly illegal, without jurisdiction	 andunsupported by law.  The writ of prohibition issued  againstrespondent  I was, therefore, in order and Civil Appeal	 No.22 of 1954 must stand dismissed with costs.  As  regards  Civil Appeal No. 21 of 1954,  the  petitionercontended  that	 respondent 2 had no power or  authority  toconduct an investigation in regard to the alleged evasion oftax  by	 the petitioner for the years 1942  and	 1943  also.Shri Nambiyar urged that: (1)The	 Travancore Act XIV of 1124 was not a law  in  forceprior  to  the	integration and was not	 an  "existing	law"continued in force by Ordinance I of 1124;  (2)The  notification	dated  the  26th  July	1949   whichpurported to bring the Travancore Act XIV of 1124 into forceas from the 22nd July 1949 was in effective and invalid;(3)  Even if the Travancore Act XIV of 11 24 was1218in  force, it could not apply to or override the  assessmentorders concluded by the Chief Revenue Authority, Travancore;  (4)	  The  Rajpramukh's agreement read with article	 245of  the Constitution precluded any investigation  except  inaccordance  with  the  Travancore Act XIV of  1124  and	 ActXXXIII	of 1950 amended by Act XLIV of 1951 was	 invalid  tothe  extent that it authorised investigation otherwise	thanin accordance with the Travancore Law;  (5)	  Assuming  all	 the  foregoing	 points	 were	heldagainst	 the petitioner, section 5(1) of the Travancore	 ActXIV  of 1124 was in any event unconstitutional and  void  asbeing inconsistent with article 14 of the Constitution.   Re. (1): The Travancore Act XIV of 1124 was passed by theTravancore  Legislature	 on  the 7th March  1949.   It	was,however, under section 1(3) to come into force on such	dateas  the Travancore Government might by notification  in	 theGovernment Gazette appoint.  No such notification was issuedby  the Travancore Government UP to the 1st July  1949	whenthe  Travancore State and the Cochin State  integrated	intothe United State of Travancore and Cochin.  On the 1st	July1949, the United State of Travancore and Cochin	 promulgatedOrdinance I of 1124 whereby all existing laws of  Travancorewere  continued in force till altered, amended	or  repealedby-competent authority and the "existing law of	 Travancore"was therein defined to mean any law in force in the State ofTravancore  immediately prior to the 1st July 1949.  It	 wasonly  on the 26th July 1949 that a notification	 was  issuedunder  section	1(3) by the United State of  Travancore	 andCochin	bringing Act XIV of 1124 into force  retrospectivelyfrom 22nd July, 1949.  The contention put forward on behalf of the petitioner wasthat  as  no notification under section 1(3) of Act  XIV  of1124  had been issued up to the 1st July 1949, that Act	 hadnot  been  brought into force and was not in force  on	thatdate  and, therefore, was not then an "existing	 law"  whichalone was given conti-1219nuity  by Ordinance I of 1124 which was promulgated on	thatvery   day.   The  contention  further	was  that,  in	 thecircumstances  the Act was not continued by Ordinance  I  of1124   but  had	 lapsed	 and,  therefore,   the	  subsequentnotification  issued  on  the  26th  July  1949	 was  whollyineffective  and consequently the reference of the cases  ofthe  petitioner	 to the Commission for	investigation  undersection	 5(1),	the  appointment  of  respondent  I  as	 theauthorised  official  and  the notices issued  by  him	wereunauthorised and wholly devoid of any authority of law.	 Thequestion for our consideration is whether Act XIV of 1124 orany part of it was, on the 1st July 1949, an existing law.   The	general rule of English law, as to the date  of	 thecommencement of a statute, since 1797, has been and is	thatwhen  no  other	 date is fixed by it  for  its	coming	intooperation it is in force from the date when it receives	 theroyal  assent  (33 Geo. 3. c. 13).  The same rule  has	beenadopted	 in section 5 of our General Clauses Act, 1897.	  Wehave not been referred to any Travancore Law which  providesotherwise.   If, therefore, the same principle prevailed  inthat State, Travancore Act XIV of 1124 would have come	intoforce  on  the	7th March 1949 when it	was  passed  by	 theTravancore  Legislature.  What prevented that  result?	 Theanswer obviously points to section 1(3) which authorises theGovernment  to bring the Act into force on a later  date  byissuing	 a notificated.	 How could section 1(3)	 operate  topostpone  the  commencement of the Act unless  that  sectionitself	was  in force?	One must,  therefore,  concede	thatsection	 1(3)  came into operation immediately the  Act	 waspassed, for otherwise it could not postpone the coming	intooperation  of the Act.	To put the same argument in  anotherway,  if  the entire Act including section 1(3) was  not  inoperation  at  the  date  of  its  passing,  how  could	 theGovernment  issue any notification under that very  section?There  must be some law authorising the Government to  bringthe Act into force.  Where is that law to be found unless itwere in section 1(3)?  In answer, Shri Nambiyar referred1541220is  to the principle embodied in section 37 of	the  EnglishInterpretation	Act which corresponds to section 22  of	 ourGeneral	 Clauses  Act.	 That  section	does  not  help	 thepetitioner  at	all.  All that it does is to  authorise	 themaking	of  rules  or bye-laws and  the	 issuing  of  ordersbetween	 the passing and the commencement of  the  enactmentbut  the  last	sentence of the section	 clearly  says	that"rules, bye-laws or orders so made or issued shall not	takeeffect	till  the commencement of the  Act  or	Regulation".Suppose Shri Nambiyar is right in saying that the Governmentcould  issue a notification under section 1(3) by virtue  ofthe principle embodied in section 22 of the General  ClausesAct, it will not take his argument an inch forward, for thatnotification,  by reason of the last sentence of section  22quoted above, will not take effect till the commencement  ofthe  Act.   It	will  bring  about  a  stalemate.   It	 is,therefore,  clear that a notification bringing an  Act	intoforce  is  not	contemplated by section 22  of	the  GeneralClauses	 Act.  Seeing, therefore, that it is section  1	 (3)which operates to prevent the commencement of the Act  untila  notification is issued thereunder by the  Government	 andthat  it  is section 1(3) which operates  to  authorise	 theGovernment  to issue a notification thereunder, it  must  beconceded  that section 1(3) came into force  immediately  onthe  passing  of the Act.  There is, therefore,	 no  gettingaway  from the fact that the Act was an "existing law"	fromthe  date of its passing right up to the 1st July  1949	 andwas,  consequently, continued by Ordinance I of 1124.	Thisbeing the position, the validity of the notification  issuedon  the 26th July 1949 under section 1(3), the reference  ofthe case of the petitioner, the appointment of respondent  1as  the	 authorised official and all proceedings  under	 theTravancore  Act	 XIV  of 1124 cannot be	 questioned  on	 theground	that  the  Act	lapsed	and  was  not  continued  byOrdinance I of 1124.  Re.  (2): It is urged that the notification issued on	 the26th July 1949 was bad in that it purported to bring the Actinto  operation	 as  from the 22nd July	 1949.	 The  reasonrelied upon is that the Govern-1221meat  could  not,  in  the  absence  of	 express  provision,authorising  it in that behalf, fix the commencement of	 theAct  retrospectively.	The  reason  for  which	 the   Courtdisfavours  retroactive	 operation of laws is  that  it	 mayprejudicially  affect  vested rights.  No  such,  reason  isinvolved   in  this  case.   Section  1(3)  authorises	 theGovernment  to bring the Act into force on such date  as  itmay,  by  notification, appoint.  In exercise of  the  powerconferred  by  this section the Government  surely  had	 thepower to issue the notification bringing the Act into  forceon  any	 date subsequent to the passing of the	Act.   Therecan,  therefore, be no objection to the notification  fixingthe commencement of the Act on the 22nd July 1949 which	 wasa date subsequent to the passing of the Act.  So the Act hasnot  been given retrospective operation, that is to say,  ithas not been made to commence from a date prior to the	dateof its passing.	 It is true that the date of commencement asfixed  by  the notification is anterior to the date  of	 thenotification  but  that circumstance does  not	attract	 theprinciple  disfavouring	 the  retroactive  operation  of   astatute.   Here	 there is no question  of  affecting  vestedrights.	  The  operation of the notification itself  is	 notretrospective.	It only brings the Act into operation on andfrom  an  earlier  date.   In  any  case  it  was  in  termsauthorised  to issue the notification bringing the Act	intoforce  on any date subsequent to the passing of the Act	 andthat  is all that the Government did.  In this view  of	 thematter,	 the  further  argument	 advanced  by  the   learnedAttorney-General  and  which  found favour  with  the  Courtbelow, namely, that the notification was at any rate good tobring the Act into operation as on and from the date of	 itsissue need not be considered.  There is no substance in thiscontention also.  Re. (3): It was urged that, even if the Travancore Act XIVof  1124 was in force on the 1st July 1949 and	was  validlybrought into operation from the 22nd July 1949, the terms ofsection	 8(2) of the Act could not apply to or override	 theassessment  orders of the petitioner for the years 1942	 and1943 which1222were concluded by the Chief Revenue Authority of Travancore.Section 8(2) of the Act provided that, after considering thereport of the Commission, the Government shall, by an  orderin  writing, direct that such proceedings as they think	 fitunder  the  various Income-tax Acts  of	 Travancore  thereinmentioned or any other law shall be taken against the personto whose case the report relates in respect of the income ofany period commencing after the last day of Karkadakom	1115(16-8-1939)  and  upon	such a direction  being	 given	suchproceedings may be taken and completed under the appropriatelaw notwithstanding any decision to a different effect givenin  the	 case  by any  income-tax  authority  or  Income-taxAppellate Tribunal.  It was contended that the Chief RevenueAuthority  was	not  included in  the  description  of	"anyincome-tax authority" and, therefore, even if the report  ofrespondent  2 was adverse to the petitioner  the  assessmentorders	which were concluded by the Chief Revenue  Authoritycould not be affected by the provisions of section 8(2)	 andcould not be reopened.  This	argument  is based on a misconception  of  the	trueposition of the Chief Revenue Authority.  The Chief  RevenueAuthority  was	an  income-tax authority  mentioned  in	 thehierarchy  under the Travancore Act VIII of 1096.  When	 theTravancore Act XXIII of 1121 came to be passed, the  income-tax  authorities  enumerated therein included the  Board  ofRevenue at the apex., substituting the Board of Revenue	 forthe  Chief  Revenue  Authority	which  occupied	 a   similarposition  in the old Act.  By section 10 of  the  TravancoreAct XIV of 1124, the Travancore Act VIII of 1096 was  deemedto be in force for the purpose of the Act and to the  extentnecessary, with the result that in construing the provisionsof section 8(2) of the Act, the words "any income-tax  auth-ority"	would include the Chief Revenue Authority which	 wasan  income-tax	authority under the Travancore Act  VIII  of1096.  It may also be noted that section 4 of the TravancoreAct  XVII  of 1122 continued all proceedings  and  petitionspending before the1223Chief  Revenue Authority and provided that the same  may  bedisposed  of by the said authority or by such  authority  asmay be appointed by the Government for the purpose as if the'Said  Travancore  Act VIII of 1096 bad not  been  repealed.It, therefore, follows that the Chief Revenue Authority	 wasincluded within the expression "any income-tax authority" insection	 8(2)  of the Act and the assessment orders  of	 thepetitioner for the years 1942 and 1943 which were  concludedby  the	 Chief	Revenue	 Authority  could  be  affected	  oroverridden  by	any  order  which might	 be  passed  by	 theGovernment  under section 8(2) of the Act.  This  contentionof the petitioner also, there-fore, does not avail him.  Re. (4): The Indian States Finance Enquiry Committee 1948-49  made two interim reports.  It recommended in  the  firstinterim report that subject to certain limitations indicatedtherein which were designed to secure -legal "continuity" ofpending proceedings and "finality and validity" of completedproceedings  under the pre-existing State  legislation,	 thewhole  body  of	 State	legislation  relating  to  "federal"subjects  should be repealed and the corresponding  body  ofCentral	 legislation extended proprio vigore to	 the  Stateswith  effect  from the prescribed date or as  and  when	 theadministration of particular "federal" subjects was  assumedby the Centre.	All matters and proceedings pending under orarising out of preexisting States Acts should be disposed ofunder  those Acts by, so far as may be,	 the  "correspondingauthorities"  under  the  corresponding	 Indian	 Acts.	 Theincome, profits and gains accruing and arising in States  ofall  periods  which  were 'previous  years'  of	 the  Statesassessment  years  1949-50  or earlier	should	be  assessedwholly	and in accordance with the States' laws and  at	 theStates'	 rates respectively, appropriate to  the  assessmentyears concerned.  Except in Travancore, there was no Income-tax  Investigation  Commission	in any	State.	 Should	 theTravancore  Commission still be functioning at the  time  ofthe federal financial integration, all cases pending  beforeit should be taken over by1224the Indian Commission.	The disposal of those cases  should,however,  (as  in  the case of pending	assessments)  be  inaccordance   with  the	pre-existing  Travancore  Law.	  Itrecommended in the Second Interim Report that the TravancoreCommission  should be wound up and the cases referred to  itshould	be  transferred to the corresponding  Commission  inIndia.  These	 recommendations of the Committee in so far as	theyapplied	  to   Travancore-Cochin  were	 accepted   by	 andincorporated  into  the agreement entered into	between	 thePresident  of India and the Rajpramukh of  Travancore-Cochinon  the 25th February 1950 subject to certain  modificationswhich  are  not	 relevant for the  purpose  of	the  presentenquiry.   The result of the agreement was the enactment  ofAct  XXXIII of 1950 which extended to Travancore-Cochin	 theAct XXX of 1947 and section 3 of that Act provided that	 thelaw  of	 Travancore corresponding to Act XXX of	 1947  shallcontinue  to remain in force with the modification that	 allcases	referred  to  or  pending  before   the	  TravancoreCommission shall stand transferred to the Central Commissionfor  disposal  and that the State law  shall  determine	 theprocedure  to be followed and the powers to be exercised  bythe  Central  Commission  in the disposal  of  those  cases.Evasion Cases Nos. 1 and 2 of 1125 which were pending beforethe  Travancore Commission thus became transferred  to	res-pondent 2 and were to be disposed of in accordance with	 theprocedure  laid	 down  and  the	 powers	 conferred  on	 theTravancore  Commission	by the Travancore Act XIV  of  1124.Two  questions,	 however,  arose  in  the  matter  of	thisinvestigation by respondent 2, viz., (1) whether the life ofthe  Travancore Commission, not having been extended  beyond16-8-1950,  respondent	2  had the power  and  authority  tocontinue  the investigation of the cases of  the  petitionerafter  16-8-1950, and, (2) whether any orders passed by	 theGovernment on the report made by respondent 2 would have theeffect of overriding the assessment orders concluded by	 theChief  Revenue	Authority,  Travancore,	 in  cases  of	 thepetitioner for the years 1942 and 1943.1225In  regard  to	the first question, it	was  urged  by	ShriNambiyar  that the life of the Travancore Commission  havingcome  to an end on the 16th August 1950, respondent 2  also,which  was its successor and to which the pending  cases  ofthe  petitioner were transferred, could not function  beyond16-8-1950.  Parliament, however, passed, on the 26th  August1951,  Act XLIV of 1951 amending Act XXXIII of 1950  wherebyit provided with retrospective effect that, in the  disposalof  cases  transferred to respondent 2, it  shall  have	 andexercise  the  same powers as it has and  exercises  in	 theinvestigation  of cases transferred to it under Act  XXX  of1947 and shall be entitled to act for the same term as undersub-section (3) of section 4 of that Act thus extending	 thelife  of  respondent  2	 beyond	 16-8-1950.   This)  it	 wassubmitted,  Parliament was not competent to do by reason  ofthe  terms of the agreement dated the 25th  February,  1950,the  effect  of the enactment of Act XLIV of 1951  being  toamend  the law of the Travancore State which was  to  governthe  investigation  of pending cases by	 respondent  2.	 Theagreement  was one which was contemplated under article	 295of the Constitution and, being provided by the	Constitutionitself,	 was  a	 bar to the legislative	 competence  of	 theCentral	  Legislature  under  article  245.    The   CentralLegislature, it was submitted, was, therefore, not competentto pass Act XLIV of 1951 extending the life of respondent  2beyond	16-8-1950  and	respondent  2  was,  therefore,	 notentitled  to  carry  on any  further  investigation  in	 theEvasion Cases Nos. 1 and 2 of 1125.  Considerable argument was addressed to us on the effect ofthe  agreement on the legislative competence of the  CentralLegislature under article 245.	We do not, however, considerit necessary to decide this question as, in our opinion, thelife of respondent 2 was not a part of the law of TravancoreState  which  was to govern the procedure  followed  or	 thepowers exercised by it in the investigation of the cases  ofthe petitioner.	 Respondent 2 to which the pending cases  ofthe  petitioner were transferred, was a body -with a  longerlease of life and the fact that the Travancore1226Commission had a shorter lease could not have the effect  ofcurtailing the life of respondent 2. The life of  respondent2  depended  upon the law which established it	and  it	 wasextended  from time to time by subsequent legislation up  toDecember, 1955, and that accident which gave to respondent 2a  longer lease of life did not contravene any provision  ofthe  Travancore	 law which determined the  procedure  to  befollowed  and the powers to be exercised by  the  TravancoreCommission.   The  transfer  to respondent 2  of  the  casespending	 before	 the  Travancore  Commission,  of  necessityinvolved that those cases would be dealt with by  respondent2  which had a longer lease of life and respondent  2  couldconduct	 the investigation of these cases and  complete	 thesame  within the span of life which had been allotted to  itby  the	 relevant  provisions of the Indian  Law,  the	onlylimitations  imposed upon the conduct of such  investigationbeing  that the procedure to be followed as also the  powersto  be	exercised  by it would be  those  obtaining  in	 theTravancore  Law.   Act	XLIV of 1951  merely  accepted	thisposition and there was nothing in that Act which ran counterto the agreement.  As  regards  the second question also, the  Chief  RevenueAuthority,  as observed before, was an income-tax  authoritywithin	the meaning of the term as used in section  8(2)  ofthe Travancore Act XIV of 1124 read with section 10 of	thatAct   which  continued	in  force  the	provisions  of	 theTravancore  Act VIII of 1096 so far as it was necessary	 forthe purpose of the Act.	 There also Act XLIV of 1951 did notmake any changes in the existing Travancore Law which was togovern the investigation of the pending cases by  respondent2. This contention of the petitioner, therefore, is  equallyuntenable.  Re. (5): This contention urged by Shri Nambiyar  questionsthe vires of section 5(1) of the Travancore Act XIV of 1124.This section provides:     "Section5(1):Our Government may at any time before	 thelast  day  of  Makaram	1125 refer  to	the  Commission	 forinvestigation and report any case or1227points	in a case in which our Government have	prima  faciereasons	 for  believing that a person has to  a	 substantialextent	evaded payment of taxation on income, together	withsuch material as may be available in support of such belief,and may at any time before the last day of Meenam 1125 applyto  the Commission for the withdrawal of any case or  pointsin  a case thus referred, and if the Commission approves  ofthe  withdrawal, no further proceedings shall thereafter  betaken by or before the Commission in respect of the case  orpoints so withdrawn".  It  corresponds to section 5(1) of the Taxation on  Income(Investigation	Commission)  Act, 1947 (XXX of	1947)  whichreads as under:  "Section  5  (1): The Central Government may at  any	timebefore	the  last  day	of  September  1948  refer  to	 theCommission  for investigation and report any case or  pointsin  a case in which the Central Government has	prima  faciereasons	 for  believing that a person has to  a	 substantialextent	evaded payment of taxation on income, together	withsuch material as may be available in support of such belief,and  may at any time before the first day of September	1948apply  to the Commission for the withdrawal of any  case  orpoints	in  a  case thus referred,  and	 if  the  Commissionapproves  of  the withdrawal, no further  proceedings  shallthereafter  be taken by or before the Commission in  respectof the case or points so withdrawn".   We  may  also at this stage refer to	 the  provisions  ofsection 47 of the Travancore Act XXIII of 1121 which relatesto income escaping assessment:   "Section 47(1): If in consequence of definite informationwhich  has come into his possession the	 Income-tax  Officerdiscovers  that	 income,  profits  or  gains  chargeable  toincome-tax have escaped assessment in any year, or have beenunder-assessed, or have been assessed at too low a rate,  orhave been the subject of excessive relief under this Act theIncome	tax Officer may, in any case in which he has  reasonto  believe that the assessed has concealed the	 particularsof his income or deliberately furnished inaccu-1551228rate  particulars thereof, at any time within  eight  years,and  in any other case at any time within four years of	 theend  of that year, serve on the person liable to pay tax  onsuch income, profits or gains, or, in the case of a company,on the principal officer thereof, a notice containing all orany  of the requirements which may be included in  a  noticeunder  subsection  (2)	of section 29, and  may	 proceed  toassess	or re-assess such income, profits or gains  and	 theprovisions  of	this  Act shall, so far	 as  may  be,  applyaccordingly as if the notice were a notice issued underthat sub-section: ...................."  The  corresponding provision of the Indian Income tax	 Actwas contained in section 34 which provided:  "Section 34(1): If in consequence of definite	 informationwhich  has come into his possession the	 Income-tax  Officerdiscovers  that	 income,  profits  or  gains  chargeable  toincome-tax have escaped assessment in any year, or have beenunder-assessed, or have been assesses at too low a rate,  orhave been the subject of excessive relief under this Act theIncome-tax  Officer may, in any case in which be has  reasonto  believe that the assessed has concealed the	 particularsof   his   income  or  deliberately   furnished	  inaccurateparticulars thereof, at any time within eight years, and  inany  other case at any time within four years of the end  ofthat  year,  serve on the person liable to pay tax  on	suchincome,	 profits or gains, or, in the case of a company,  onthe  principal officer thereof, a notice containing  all  orany  of the requirements which may be included in  a  noticeunder  subsection  (2)	of section 22, and  may	 proceed  toassess	or re-assess such income, profits or gains, and	 theprovisions  of	this  Act shall, so far	 as  may  be,  applyaccordingly as if the notice were a notice issued under thatsub-section: ................."  Section 34 of the Indian Income-tax Act was amended by ActXLVIII	of 1948 which received the assent of  the  Governor-General	 on the 8th September 1948.  It was further  amendedby  the Indian Income-tax Act, 1954 (XXXIII of	1954)  whichwas assented to by the President on the 25th September12291954 and introduced sub-sections (1-A) to (1-D) therein. It  may,  however, be noted that no amendment was  made  insection	 47  of	 the Travancore Act XXIII  of  1121  at	 anysubsequent  period  and	 the  question	as  to	whether	 theprovisions of section 5(1) of the Travancore Act XIV of 1124became discriminatory and violative of the fundamental rightguaranteed under article 14 of the Constitution will have tobe determined with reference to the provisions of that	sec-tion set out above.  The  true  nature, scope and effect of article 14  of	 theConstitution  have been explained by this Court in a  seriesof cases beginning with Chiranjit Lal Chowdhuri v. The Unionof  India(1) and ending with Budhan Chowdhury and others  v.The  State of Bihar(2).	 It is, therefore, not necessary  torefer to the earlier cases and it will suffice to quote	 theprinciple as summarised in the decision of the Full Court inthe last mentioned case at page 1049 in the following terms:   "It is now well-established that while article 14 forbidsclass	legislation,   it   does   not	 forbid	  reasonableclassification	for the purposes of legislation.  In  order,however, to pass the test of permissible classification	 twoconditions   must  be  fulfilled,  namely,  (i)	  that	 theclassification	 must	be  founded   on   an	intelligibledifferentia  which distinguishes persons or things that	 aregrouped together from others left out of the group, and (ii)that differentia must have a rational relation to the objectsought	to  be	achieved by the statute	 in  question.	 Theclassification	may be founded on different  bases,  namely,geographical, or according to objects or occupations or	 thelike.  What is necessary is that there must be a nexus	bet-ween  the basis of classification and the object of the	 Actunder  consideration.	It is also well-establisbed  by	 thedecisions   of	 this  Court  that   article   14   condemnsdiscrimination	not only by a substantive law but also by  alaw of procedure".   The principles underlying article 14 of the	Constitutionare well-settled.  The only difficulty which(1) [1950] S.C.R. 869.	       (2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1045.1230arises	is in regard to the application of those  principlesto  the	 facts	of a particular case and the  Court  has  toconsider the terms of the impugned legislation having regardto  the background and the surrounding circumstances so	 faras  it	may be necessary to do so in order to  arrive  at  aconclusion  whether  it infringes the fundamental  right  inquestion.  Section 5(1) of Act XXX of 1947 (which is in pari  materiawith  section  5(1) of the Travancore Act XIV of  1124)	 wasimpugned  in  the case of Suraj Mall Mohta & Co.  v.  A.  V.Visvanatha  Sastri  and	 another(1).   The  references	 forinvestigation  in that case had been made in pursuance of  areport	made  by the Commission to  the	 Central  Governmentunder  the provisions of section 5(4) of the Act  requestingthat the 'Case of the petitioner along with other cases	 maybe  referred  to  the  Commission  for	investigation.	 Thecontention  urged on behalf of the petitioner was  that	 theprovisions of sections 5(1), 5(4), 6, 7 and 8 of Act XXX  of1947 had become void being discriminatory in character afterthe coming into force of the Constitution.  The attack	madeagainst	 the provisions of section 5(1) of the Act was	two-fold:  "(1)  That  the section was not based  on  any  validclassification;	 the  word  "substantial"  being  vague	 anduncertain  and	having no fixed meaning,  could	 furnish  nobasis  for any classification at all; (2) That	the  CentralGovernment was entitled by the provisions of the section  todiscriminate  between  one person and another  in  the	sameclass and it was authorised to pick and choose the cases  ofpersons	 who  fell  within  the	 group	of  those  who	 badsubstantially evaded taxation.	It could, if it chose,	sendthe   case  of	one  person  to	 the  Commission  and	showfavouritism to another person by not sending his case to theCommission though both of these persons be within the  groupof those who had evaded the payment of tax to a	 substantialextent".  As  regards  section	5(4), it was urged that	 it  bad  noindependent  existence	and was bound to fall  with  section5(1) if his contention regarding its invalidity(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 448.1231prevailed.   In the alternative, it was urged that  assumingthat  section 5(1) was valid, even then section 5(4) had  tobe  declared  void because it gave arbitrary  power  to	 theCommission  to	pick  and choose and  secondly	because	 theclause was highly discriminatory in character inasmuch as anevasion,  whether substantial or insubstantial, came  withinits  ambit as well as within the ambit of section  34(1)  ofthe Indian Income-tax Act.  This	Court considered it sufficient for the	decision  ofthat  case  to	examine the contentions	 urged	against	 thevalidity of section 5(4) of the Act because the case of	 thepetitioner  was	 referred  to  the  Commission	under  thoseprovisions of the Act and not under section 5(1) and decidedthat case on the assumption that section 5(1) of the Act wasbased  on a valid classification and dealt with a  group  ofpersons	 who came within the class of  war-profiteers  whichrequired  special  treatment, that  the	 classification	 wasrational  and that reasonable grounds existed for  making  adistinction  between  those who fell within that  class	 andothers	who did not come within it, but without in  any	 waydeciding or even expressing any opinion on that question.This  Court compared the provisions of section 5(4)  of	 theAct with those of section 34(1) of the Indian Income-tax Actand came to the conclusion that section 5(4) dealt with	 thesame  class of persons who fell within the ambit of  section34(1)  of the Indian Income-tax Act and were dealt  with  insub-section  (1) of that section and whose income  could  becaught	by  a proceeding under that section.  It  held	thatthere  was  nothing  uncommon either  in  properties  or  incharacteristics	 between persons who had been discovered  asevaders	 of  income-tax during	an  investigation  conductedunder  section	5(1)  of  the Act and  those  who  had	beendiscovered by the Income-tax Officer to have evaded  paymentof  income  tax.   Both those kinds of	persons	 had  commonproperties  and	 had common  characteristics  and  thereforerequired  equal	 treatment.  The Court thus held  that	bothsection 34(1) of the Indian Income-tax Act and sub-sec-1232tion (4) of section 5 of the impugned Act dealt with personswho had similar characteristics and similar properties,	 thecommon characteristics being that they were persons who	 hadnot  truly disclosed their income and had evaded payment  oftaxation on income.   The	 court	 then  considered  whether   the   procedureprescribed by Act XXX of 1947 for discovering the  concealedprofits of those who bad evaded payment of taxation on theirincome	was substantially different and prejudicial  to	 theassesses than the procedure prescribed in the Indian Income-tax Act.  After comparing the provisions of section 8 of ActXXX  of	 1947  and those of sections 31, 32 and	 33  of	 theIndian	Income-tax  Act, this court came to  the  conclusionthat  there was material and substantial difference  betweenthe two procedures and there was no doubt that the procedureprescribed  by	the impugned Act deprived a person  who	 wasdealt with under that Act of those rights of appeal,  secondappeal	and revision to challenge questions of fact  decidedby the judge of first instance.	 The procedure prescribed bythe impugned Act in sections 6 and 7 was also compared	withthe procedure prescribed in sections 37 and 38 in the IndianIncome-tax  Act	 and  this Court  held	that  the  procedureprescribed  by	the  impugned  Act  was	 substantially	moreprejudicial  to the assessee than the  procedure  prescribedunder  the  Indian Income-tax Act.  It was thus	 clear	thatpersons dealt with under Act XXX of 1947 were submitted to aprocedure  which was more drastic and prejudicial  than	 theprocedure  which was available to those who were dealt	withunder section 34 of the Indian Income-tax Act.   This	 Court, therefore, was of the opinion  that  section5(4) and the procedure prescribed by the impugned Act in  sofar as it affected the persons proceeded against  thereunderbeing a piece of discriminatory legislation offended againstthe  provisions of article 14 of the Constitution  and	werethus void and unenforceable.  It was after this decision of this Court in Suraj1233Mall  Mohta's case supra that Parliament enacted the  IndianIncome-tax Amendment Act, 1954 (XXXIII of 1954)	 introducingsub-sections  (1-A)  to (1-D) in section 34  of	 the  IndianIncome-tax  Act.   Though Act XXXIII of	 1954  received	 theassent of the President on the 5th September 1954 it was  tocome into effect from the 17th July 1954.  Section 34(1-A) purported to meet two criticisms which hadbeen, in the main, offered against the constitutionality  ofsection	 5(1)  of the Act in Suraj Mall	 Mohtas	 case.	 Onecriticism  was that the classification made in section	5(1)of  the	 Act  was bad because the  word	 'substantial'	usedtherein	 was  a word which had no fixed meaning and  was  anunsatisfactory	 medium	 for  carrying	the  idea  of	someascertainable	proportion  of	the  whole,  and  thus	 theclassification	being vague and uncertain, did not save	 theenactment  from the mischief of article 14 of the  Constitu-tion.	That  alleged defect was cured in section  34  (1-A)inasmuch as the Legislature clearly indicated there what  itmeant  when it said that the said object of Act XXX of	1947was  to	 catch	persons who, to a  substantial	extent,	 hadevaded	payment of tax, in other words, what  was  seeminglyindefinite within the meaning of the word 'substantial'	 badbeen  made  definite and clear by enacting that	 no  evasionbelow  a  sum  of one lakh was within the  meaning  of	thatexpression.   The other criticism was that section 5(1)	 didnot necessarily deal with the persons, who, during the	war,had  made  huge profits and evaded payment of tax  on  them.Section	 34(1-A)  remedied  this defect	 also.	 It  clearlystated that it would operate on income made between the	 1stSeptember  1939	 and 31st March 1946 tax on which  had	beenevaded.   Section  5(1)  was again attacked in the  case  of  ShreeMeenakshi  Mills  Ltd. v. Sri A. V.  Visvanatha	 Sastri	 andAnother(1).   This  was a petition under article 32  of	 theConstitution filed on the 16th July 1954 after the  decisionin  Suraj  Mall Mohta's case, supra,  had  been	 pronounced.Section	 5(1)  of  the Act-was attacked	 on  the  very	samegrounds which were mentioned in (1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 787.1234the judgment in Suraj Mall Mohta's case, supra, but had	 notbeen dealt with by this Court it being considered sufficientto  strike down section 5(4) of the Act	 without  expressingany  opinion  on the vires of section 5(1).   Even  in	thiscase,  section	5(1)  was  not struck  down  as	 void  on  acomparison of its provisions with those of section 34(1)  ofthe Indian Incometax Act as was done in the case of  section5(4)  in Suraj Mall Mohta's case, supra.  By the  time	thispetition came to be heard by this Court, the Parliament	 hadenacted	  Act  XXXIII  of  1954	 which,	 as  stated   above,introduced  section  34(1-A)  in section 34  of	 the  IndianIncome-tax  Act and this Court came to the conclusion  on  acomparison of the provisions of section 5(1) of the Act withsection	 34(1-A) of the Indian Income-tax Act that  the	 newsub-section inserted in section 34 by Act XXXIII of 1954 wasintended to deal with the class of persons who were said  tohave  been classified for special treatment by section	5(1)of  Act XXX of 1947.  This Court reiterated the	 conclusionsto  which-  it had come in Suraj Mall Mohta's  case,  supra,that  the  procedure prescribed by the Act  for	 making	 theinvestigation  under  its provisions was of  a	summary	 anddrastic	 nature	 and  it constituted a	departure  from	 theordinary  law of procedure and in certain important  aspectswas  detrimental to the persons subjected to it and as	suchwas discriminatory.  It did not again express an opinion  onthe  validity  of  section 5(1) as being based	on  a  validclassification	and  being thus saved from the	mischief  ofarticle 14 of the Constitution, but, on a comparison of	 theprovisions of section 5(1) of the Act with those of  section34(1-A) of the Indian Income tax Act which came into  effectfrom  the 17th July 1954, came to the conclusion  that	thisdefence	 of the provisions of section 5(1) being saved	fromthe mischief of article 14 of the Constitution on the  basisof a valid classification was no longer available in supportof  it	after  the introduction of  the	 new  subsection  insection	 34 of the Indian Income-tax Act  which	 sub-sectiondealt  with the same class of persons dealt with by  section5(1) of the impugned1235Act.	  The result was that proceedings could no longer becontinued under the procedure prescribed by the	  impugnedAct   and   section   5	 (1)  was  thus	  struck   down	  asunconstitutional and void after the coming into operation ofsection 34(1-A) of the Indian Income-tax Act.   These two cases, viz., Suraj Mall Mohta's case supra	 andShree  Meenakshi  Mills'  case,	 supra,	 did  not   directlypronounce  upon	 the  vires of section 5(1) of	the  Act  incomparison  with section 34(1) of the Indian Income-tax	 Actthough	the  vires  were  the subject  matter  of  a  directchallenge  therein.   The  ratio  of  these  decisions	 is,however,  helpful in the determination of the question	thatarises directly before us, viz., whether section 5(1) of theAct is discriminatory in its character and thus violative ofthe  fundamental  right guaranteed under article 14  of	 theConstitution.	In both these cases, this Court was  of	 theopinion	 that the procedure for investigation prescribed  byAct  XXX of 1947 (corresponding with the Travancore Act	 XIVof 1124) was of a summary and drastic nature and constituteda  departure  from  the ordinary law  of  procedure  and  incertain	 aspects was detrimental to persons subjected to  itas   compared	with  the  procedure   prescribed   by	 thecorresponding  provisions  of  the  Indian  Income-tax	 Act(corresponding to the Travancore Act XXIII of 1121) and -wasas  such discriminatory.  The provisions of sections  5	 (4)and  5	(1) of the Act were compared respectively  with	 theprovisions  of	section	 34(1) and section  34(1-A)  of	 theIndian	Income-tax Act and, on a comparison of these  provi-sions, this Court came to the conclusion that the classes ofpersons	 who were said to have been classified	for  specialtreatment  by  those  respective sections of  the  Act	wereintended  to be and could be dealt with under section  34(1)and  section 34(1-A) of the Indian Income-tax Act and  therecould, therefore, be no basis of a valid classification	 forspecial	 treatment under the provisions of Act XXX  of	1947(corresponding with the Travancore Act XIV of 1124).  The procedure prescribed by the Travancore Act XIV of 1124being  thus  discriminatory as compared1561236with the procedure prescribed in the Travancore Act XXIII of1121,  the questions that arise for our	 consideration	are,(1)  whether there is a rational basis of classification  tobe  found in the enactment of section 5(1) of the  Act,	 and(2)  whether the same class of persons were intended  to  beand  could be dealt with under the provisions of section  47of the Travancore Act XXIII of 1121.  In  order  to	 ascertain  the scope  and  purpose  of	 theimpugned  section  reference must first be made to  the	 Actitself.	  The  preamble of a statute has been said to  be  agood  means of finding out its meaning and as it were a	 keyto the understanding of it.  The preamble to the  TravancoreAct  XIV of 1124, like that of Act XXX of 1947,	 runs  thus:"Whereas  it  is expedient for the purpose  of	ascertainingwhether	 the actual incidence of taxation on income  is	 andhas  been in recent years in accordance with the  provisionsof  law	 and the extent to which the existing law  and	pro-cedure	for the assessment and recovery of such taxation  isadequate  to prevent the evasion thereof, to make  provisionfor  an investigation to be made into such matters.   It  ishereby enacted as follows".  It does not unfortunately	giveany assistance in the solution of the problem before us.  Section 5(1) itself, however, gives some indication as  tothe real object of it.	The condition on which the action ofthe Government under that section is made dependent is	thatthe  Government must have prima facie reasons for  believingthat a person has to a substantial extent evaded payment  oftaxation on his income.	 The powers conferred on the Commis-sion  by  section  6 and the procedure	prescribed  for	 theCommission by section 7 are clearly very drastic and  harsh.This unmistakably shows that the legislative authority	tookthe  view that these stringent measures were  necessary	 forunearthing the tax evasions which had gone unnoticed  beforewhen  the  usual  procedure under  the	Income-tax  law	 wasapplied.   Then	 comes	section 8(2)  which  authorises	 theGovernment after perusal of the report of the Commission  todirect proceedings to, be taken against the person to whose1237case  the  report relates in respect of the  income  of	 anyperiod	 commencing  after  the	 16th  August  1939.	Thisprovision   clearly  evinces  that  the	 intention  of	 thelegislative  authority	is to catch the income	evaded	fromafter the 16th August 1939.  Section 5(1) also provides thatthe reference thereunder of a case must be made at any	timebefore the 16th February 1950.	From these sections it	willappear	that  the  object of this law  was  to	uncover	 theevasion of tax on income made after the 16th August 1939 andbefore	the 16th February 1950 about the existence of  whichevasion the Government had prima facie reason to believe.    The	 question  at once arises as to why it was  that  thelegislative authority took the view that there were possiblecases  of tax evasion.	It has been said that  although	 thestatement of 'the objects and reasons appended to a bill  isnot  admissible as an aid to the construction of the Act  aspassed	(see  Aswini  Kumar Ghose case(1)), yet	 it  may  bereferred to only for the limited purpose of ascertaining theconditions  prevailing	at the time which  necessitated	 themaking	of  the	 law  (see  Subodh  Gopal  Bose's  case(2)).Similar	 observations  were made by Fazl Ali, J.  with	ref-erence	to  legislative proceedings being relevant  for	 theproper understanding of the circumstances under which an Actwas  passed  and  the  reasons	which  necessitated  it	  inChiranjit  Lal Chowdhuri v. The Union of India(3).   Indeed,in  the	 case  of  Kathi  Raning  Rawat	 v.  The  State	  ofSaurashtra(4),	this  Court permitted the State to  file  anaffidavit   stating  in	 detail	 the   circumstances   whichprevailed at the time when the law there under considerationbad  been passed and which necessitated the passing of	thatlaw.  In the present case also, an affidavit has been  filedby  Gauri  Shanker, Secretary of respondent 2,	stating	 thereasons	 why it was thought necessary to enact the  impugnedAct  including section 5(1).  This affidavit clearly  bringsout the serious problem that faced the revenue	authorities.A  war of unprecedented magnitude had raged  from  September1939 to 1946.  The(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 1.	    (2)	   [1954] S.C.R. 587, 628.(3)  [1950] S.C.R. 869, 879.  (4)  [1952] S.C R. 435.1238war  conditions brought in their train a sudden rise in	 thedemand of all kinds of goods, both consumer and	 industrial,which,	naturally pushed up the prices to  abnormal  heightsaffording   a	great	opportunity   to   the	  producers,manufacturers and merchants to reap huge profits.  There wasgood reason to believe that these abnormal profits were	 notbeing	brought	  into	regular	 accounts   but-were   beingconcealed.   Faced  with  this situation, means	 bad  to  bedevised to enquire into the tax evasions and to realise	 thelegitimate  dues  of the State.	 If regard be  had  to	thisbackground it is obvious that section 5(1) had reference  toa class of substantial evaders of income-tax who required tobe specially treated under the drastic procedure provided byAct XXX of 1947.     It	 was,  however, urged that  the	 words	"substantialextent"	 were of such vague import that they did not  affordany reasonable-basis of classification.	 Reference was	madeto Stroud's Judicial Dictionary, 3rd ed., Vol. 4, page 2901,where the word "substantial" has been described to be:      "A  word of no fixed meaning, it is an  unsatisfactorymedium	 for  carrying	the  idea  of	some   ascertainableproportion  of	the whole (Terry's  Motors,  Ltd.  v.Binder,[1948] S.A.S.R. 167)".   The	 word  "substantial"  has  been	 used	in   variouslegislative  enactments and even though it is said to  be  aword  of  no  fixed meaning, Viscount  Simon  in  Palser  v.Grinling(1) observed:    "One  of the primary meanings of the word is  equivalentto considerable, solid, or big.	 It is in this sense that wespeak  of  a  substantial fortune, a  substantial  meal.,  asubstantial  man,  a  substantial  argument  or	 ground	  ofdefence.   Applying the word in this sense, it must be	leftto the discretion of the judge of fact to decide as best  hecan according to the circumstances in each case......." and it has been described at page 2902 of Stroud's JudicialDictionary to be "equivalent to considerable,solid or big".   Even though the word "substantial" by itself might (1) [1948] A.C. 291, 817.1239not  afford a definite measure or yard-stick  for  includingparticular   individuals  within  the  classification,	 thebackground and the circumstances mentioned in the  aforesaidaffidavit   of	Gauri  Shanker	indicate   with	  reasonablecertainty  the	class  of persons who  are  intended  to  besubjected  to this drastic procedure.  It does	not  requiremuch  effort to pick out persons who would fall within	thisgroup  or category of substantial evaders of income-tax	 andeven  though a definite amount be not specified	 in  section5(1)  of  the Act as constituting a substantial	 evasion  ofincome-tax the Government, to whom the process of  selectionfor the purposes of reference of the cases for investigationto   the  Commission  is  entrusted,  would  not  have	 anydifficulty  in	finding out the persons coming	within	thisgroup  or category.  To use the language of Viscount  Simon,the  income-tax	 which	has been evaded	 would	have  to  beconsiderable,  solid  or big, and once that  conclusion	 wasreached	 by the Government, the cases of such persons  wouldindeed	be  referred  by  them	for  investigation  by	 theCommission under section 5(1) of the Act.   It  was,  however,  urged that it would be  open  to	 theGovernment  within  the	 terms of section 5(1)	of  the	 Actitself to discriminate between persons and persons who	fellwithin	the  very group or category;  the  Government  mightrefer the case of A to the Commission leaving the case of  Bto be dealt with by the ordinary procedure laid down in	 theTravancore  Act	 XXIII	of 1121.  The  possibility  of	suchdiscriminatory treatment of persons falling within the	samegroup  or category, however, cannot  necessarily  invalidatethis piece of legislation.  It is to be presumed, unless thecontrary were shown, that the administration of a particularlaw  would be done "not with an evil eye and  unequal  band"and  the  selection made by the Government of the  cases  ofpersons	 to be referred for investigation by the  Commissionwould not be discriminatory.  This	question was considered by this Court in two  cases,viz. , Kathi Raning Rawat v. The State of Sau-1240rashtra(1)  and	 Kedar	Nath Bajoria v. The  State  of	WestBengal(2).   Mr.  Justice Mukherjea, as he then	 was,  dealtwith  the  argument in Kathi Raning Rawat v.  The  State  ofSaurashtra(1) as under:-    "It is a doctrine of the American courts which seems  tobe  well-founded  on  principle that  the  equal  protectionclause	can  be	 invoked  not  merely  where  discriminationappears on the express terms of the statute itself, but alsowhen it is the result of improper or prejudiced execution ofthe law. (Vide Weaver on Constitutional Law, p. 404).  But astatute will not necessarily be condemned as discriminatory,because	 it does not make the classification itself but,  asan  effective  way  of carrying out its	 policy,  vests	 theauthority  to  do it in certain officers  or  administrativebodies.................... In my opinion, if the legislativepolicy	is clear and definite and as an effective method  ofcarrying  out  that  policy a discretion is  vested  by	 thestatute	 upon a body of administrators or officers  to	makeselective  application	of  the law to	certain	 classes  orgroups of persons, the statute itself cannot be condemned asa  piece of discriminatory legislation.	 After all "the	 lawdoes  all  that	 is needed when it does	 all  that  it	can,indicates a policy .... and seeks to bring within the  linesall similarly situated so far as its means allow" (Vide Buckv. Bell, 274 U.S. 200,-208).  In such cases, the power givento the executive body would import a duty on it to  classifythe  subject-matter  of legislation in accordance  with	 theobjective indicated in the statute.  The discretion that  isconferred on official agencies in such circumstances is	 notan unguided discretion; it has to be exercised in conformitywith  the policy to effectuate which the direction is  givenand  it is in relation to that objective that the  proprietyof  the classification would have to be tested.	 If the	 ad-ministrative body proceeds to classify persons or things  ona  basis which has no rational relation to the objective  ofthe  legislature,  its action can certainly be	annulled  asoffending against the equal protection clause.	On the otherhand, if the statute(1) [1952] S.C.R. 435, 459.(2) [1954] S.C.R. 30, 41,1241itself does not disclose a definite policy or objective	 andit  confers  authority on another to make selection  at	 itspleasure, the statute would be held on the face of it to  bediscriminatory	irrespective  of  the way  in  which  it  isapplied.................."  The  same  line  of demarcation  was	also  emphasized  byPatanjali  Sastri,  C. J., delivering the  judgment  of	 theCourt in Kedar Nath Bajoria v. The State of West Bengal(2).   It,	therefore.,  follows  that the mere  fact  that	 theGovernment  is entrusted with the power to select  cases  ofpersons falling within the group or category of	 substantialevaders of income-tax for reference to the Commission  wouldnot render section 5(1) discriminatory and void.  The object sought to be achieved by the impugned piece  oflegislation   is  quite	 definite  and	that  is  to   catchsubstantial evaders of income-tax out of those who have madehuge  profits during the war period.  They form a  class  bythemselves  and	 have  to be  specially	 treated  under	 theprocedure   laid  down	in  the	 Act.	Being  a  class	  bythemselves, the procedure to which they are subjected duringthe course of investigation of their cases by the Commissionis not at all discriminatory because such drastic  procedurehas  reasonable nexus with the object sought to be  achievedby the Act and therefore such a classification is within theconstitutional	limitations.  The selection of the cases  ofpersons	 falling  within  that category	 by  the  Governmentcannot be challenged as discriminatory for the simple reasonthat  it  is not left to the-unguided  or  the	uncontrolleddiscretion  of the Government.	The selection is  guided  bythe very objective which is set out in the terms of  section5 (1) itself and the attainment of that object controls	 thediscretion which is vested in the Government and guides	 theGovernment  in	making the necessary selection of  cases  ofpersons to be referred for investigation by the	 Commission.It  cannot,  therefore, be disputed that there	is  a  validbasis  of classification to be found in section 5(1) of	 theAct.(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 30, 41.1242   The	validity of the classification was further  attackedon the ground that the limitation of the period within whichthe  cases of the substantial evaders of income-tax  fallingwithin	 this  group  or  category  may	 be   referred	 forinvestigation  by  the Government to the  Commission,  viz.,16th  February	1950 imports a discrimination in so  far  asthose  persons	whose cases are referred  before  that	datewould  be  treated  under the procedure	 laid  down  in	 theTravancore  Act XIV of 1124 whereas those whose	 cases	havenot been referred by that date would not be subjected to thesame  treatment	 even  though  they  fell  within  the	samecategory.   This would bring about a discrimination  betweenthe same class of persons some of whom would be subjected tothat special treatment and others who would escape the same.Section	 5(4)  of the Act also would not  cure	this  defectbecause the cases contemplated therein are either the  caseswhich  have been already referred for investigation  to	 theCommission  under section 5(1) of the Act or cases of  otherpersons	 about	whose  alleged 'evasion	 of  income-tax	 theCommission  has	 gathered information during the  course  oftheir  investigations.	Even if these other persons be	thussubjected  to  the special procedure prescribed in  the	 Actthere	would  remain,	outside	 the  jurisdiction  of	 theCommission, numbers .of persons whose cases are not  coveredby  sections 5(1) or 5(4) but who nonetheless are  comprisedwithin the class of substantial evaders of income-tax.	Theywould  have  to	 be dealt with under the  ordinary  law	 andpresumably  under section 47 of the Travancore Act XXIII  of1121 if they could be dealt with thereunder.  If they  couldnot  be	 so dealt with, the only result would be  that	theywould  escape  the surveillance of the	Government  and	 theescapement of income-tax in their cases would be without anyremedy.	  This,	 it was urged, was  discriminatory  and	 wasenough to strike down section 5(1) of the Act.   It would be impossible in the normal course to reach	 allsubstantial  evaders of income-tax.  Those  persons  fallingwithin that category in respect of whom the1243  Government  had received the requisite information and  inwhose  cases  the  Government had prima	 facie	reasons	 forbelieving  that	 they  had to a	 substantial  extent  evadedpayment	 of  taxation  on  income  would  have	their  casesreferred   by  the  Government	for  investigation  by	 theCommission.   Those  persons  in respect  of  whom  no	suchinformation was available to the Government would  certainlyescape	detection  but that is the position with  regard  toeach  and every law which may be passed in order  to  detectevasion of payment of income-tax.  Even under the provisionsof   section  47  of  the  Travancore  Act  XXIII  of	1121(corresponding to section 34 of the Indian Income-tax Act asit  stood  before the amendment in 1948), those	 persons  inrespect of whom the Incometax Officer had gathered  definiteinformation and consequently discovered that income, profitsor gains chargeable to income-tax had escaped assessment  inany  year could be dealt with under the relevant  provisionsof  that  Act.	 Those persons in respect of  whom  no	suchinformation  had  been received by  the	 Income-tax  Officercould  not  be reached at all.	The fact that  some  personsfalling	 within a particular category may  escape  detectionaltogether is not necessarily destructive of the efficacy ofthe  particular	 legislation.  The only	 thing	required  isthat,  as between persons who fall within the same  categoryand  who can be dealt with under the same  procedure,  thereshould	be no discrimination, some being treated in one	 wayand others being treated in another.   It was also urged that discrimination was inherent in theterms  of  section 5(1) itself by reason  of  its  operationbeing  limited	only  to  those	 persons  whose	 cases	werereferred  to the Commission on or before the  16th  February1950.	It  thus  arbitrarily left out	persons	 who  evadedpayment of taxation on income made during the war period butwhose	cases  were  not  discovered  or  referred  to	 theCommission on or before that date  although    they	wereotherwise similarly situated. Reliance was placed in supportof this position on the following passage from the  judgmentof Mahajan, C. J. in Shree Meenakshi Mills' case,1571244supra, at pages 795-796:    "Assuming  that evasion of tax to a	 substantial  amountcould  form a basis of classification at all for imposing  adrastic procedure on that class, the inclusion of only	suchof them whose cases had been referred before 1st  September,1948,  into  a	class for being dealt with  by	the  drasticprocedure, leaving other tax evaders to be dealt with  underthe  ordinary  law will be a clear  discrimination  for	 thereference  of  the  case within a  particular  time  has  nospecial	 or  rational nexus with the necessity	for  drasticprocedure............"    These observations were made to repel the first argumentof   the   learned  Attorney-General  that  the	  class	  ofsubstantial  evaders who fall within section 5(1) were	onlythose  whose cases had been referred within the date  fixed.It  was pointed out that if the class was  so  circumscribedthen   that   by  itself  would	 make	the   classificationdiscriminatory	by  leaving out	 those	substantial  evaderswhose  cases  had not been referred by that date.   By	thatpassage,  however,  this  Court did not hold  that  in	factsection	 5(1) was confined to such a limited class.  We	 areof the opinion that the fixation of the date for  referencesfor investigation by the Government to the Commission, viz.,the 16th February 1950 was not an attribute of the class  ofsubstantial evaders of income-tax which were intended to  bespecifically treated under the drastic procedure  prescribedin  the Travancore Act XIV of 1124 but was a  mere  accidentand  a measure of administrative convenience.  The  date  ofsuch  references  could,  without touching  the	 nature	 andpurpose of the classification, be extended by the TravancoreLegislature by a necessary amendment of the Travancore	Act,XIV  of 1124, and if such an amendment had been	 grafted  onthe  Act  as  originally passed, no  one  belonging  to	 theparticular  class  or  category of  substantial	 evaders  ofincome tax could have complained against the same.     The next question to consider is whether the same classof  persons dealt with under section 5(1) of the  TravancoreAct XIV of 1124 were intended to and1245could  be dealt with under the provisions of section  47  ofthe Travancore Act XXIII of 1121.  Because, if that was	 theposition  at any particular period of time, section 5(1)  ofthe   Travancore  Act  XIV  of	1124  would   certainly	  bediscriminatory	in  so	far as there will  be  two  distinctprovisions simultaneously existing in the statute book,	 oneof  which could be applied to some persons within  the	sameclass  or category and the other could be applied to  othersalso  falling  within  the  same  class	 or  category,	thusdiscriminating between the two groups.   Section  47	of  the Travancore Act	XXIII  of  1121,  asalready observed, was in the same terms as section 34(1)  ofthe  Indian Income-tax Act as it stood before its  amendmentin  1948.   Each  of  the following  conditions	 had  to  befulfilled  before the Income-tax Officer could	take  actionunder this section, viz.:  (i)that definite information bad come into the  possessionof the Income-tax Officer that income, etc. had escaped;   (ii)that  inconsequence of such definite information	 theIncome-tax Officer discovered that income, etc.      (a) had escaped assessment, or      (b) had been under-assessed, or      (c) had been assessed at too low a rate, or      (d) had been the subject of excessive relief;(iii)	  that	the Income-tax Officer had reason to  belivethat (a) the  assessee  had	 concealed the	particulars  of	 hisincome, or(b)  deliberately furnished inaccurate particulars thereof   It is, therefore, abundantly clear that section 47(1)  ofthe  Travancore Act XXIII of 1121 was directed only  againstthose persons concerning whom definite information came intothe  possession of the Incometax Officer and in	 consequenceof which the Incometax Officer discovered that the income ofthose persons bad escaped or been under-assessed or assessedat  too	 low  a rate or had been the  subject  of  excessiverelief.	 The class of persons envisaged by1246section	 47(1)	was a definite class about which  there	 wasdefinite information leading to discovery within 8 years  or4  years  as the case may be of definite item  or  items  ofincome	which  had escaped assessment.	The  Travancore	 ActXIII  of 11 21 was passed on the 9th July 1946.	 The  actionto  be	taken under it was not confined to  escapement	fromassessment  of income made during the war period  (September1939  to 1946).	 Action could be taken in respect of  incomewhich  escaped assessment even before the war and also	morethan  8	 years	after the end of the war.   Turning  now  tosection	 5(1) it will be noticed that the class	 of  personssought to be reached comprises only persons about whom therewas no definite information and no discovery of any definiteitem  or  items of income which escaped taxation  but  aboutwhom  the Government had only prima facie reason to  believethat  they  evaded payment of tax to a	substantial  amount.The  class of persons who might fall within section 5(1)  ofthe Travancore Act XIV of 1124 was, therefore, not the	sameclass  of  persons who may come under section 47(1)  of	 theTravancore Act XXIII of 1121.  Further, action under section5(1)  read with section 8(2) of the 'Travancore Act  XIV  of1124  is  definitely limited to the evasion  of	 payment  oftaxation on income made during the war period.	  It cannot,therefore, be urged that section 5(1) of     the  TravancoreAct XIV of 1124 was discriminatory in	 comparison	withsection	 47(1) of the Travancore Act-XXIII of 1121, for	 thepersons	 who  came  under section 5(1)	were  not  similarlysituated  as persons who came under section  47(1),  Section5(1)  of Act XXX of 1947 was struck down in Shree  MeenakshiMills'	case,  supra,  as it comprised	the  same  class  ofpersons	 who were brought in the amended section 34(1-A)  ofthe Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 but the same cannot be	saidabout section 5(1) as compared to section 47(1).  These	 twosections  do not overlap and do not cover the same class  ofpersons.   The	result,	 therefore,  is that  section  5(1)  of	 theTravancore Act XIV of 1124 which has to be read for1247this  purpose  in  juxtaposition  with	section	 47  of	 theTravancore   Act  XXIII	 of  1121  cannot  be  held  to	  bediscriminatory	and  violative	of  the	 fundamental   rightguaranteed  under  article  14	of  the	 Constitution.	 Theproceedings which took place in the course of  investigationby the Commission up to the 26th January 1950 were valid andso   also  were	 the  proceedings  during  the	 course	  ofinvestigation which took place after the inauguration of theConstitution  on  the  26th January  1950  under  which	 thepetitioner,  as	 a  citizen  of	 our  Sovereign	  DemocraticRepublic  acquired inter alia guarantee of  the	 fundamentalright under article 14 of the Constitution.   The result, therefore, is that all the contentions  urgedon behalf of the petitioner fail and Civil Appeal No. 21  of1954 must be dismissed with costs.  Civil	 Appeals Nos. 21 and 22 of 1954 will accordingly  bedismissed with costs.  There will be a set off for costs.