PETITIONER:S. K. G. SUGAR LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:SRI ALI HASSAN, CHAIRMAN, INDUSTRIALTRIBUNAL, BIHAR & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:04/11/1958BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR  230		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 254ACT:       Industrial Dispute-Discharge by employer of workmen  Pending       adjudication-'Employer', Meaning of-Industrial Disputes Act,       1947  (XIV Of 1947), ss. 33, 33A-Indian Companies Act,  1913       (7 Of 19I3), s. 171.HEADNOTE:Gaya  Sugar Mills Ltd. went into liquidation and  the  sugarfactory	 owned by it was leased out to the appellant by	 theliquidator  with the permission of the Court on December  6,1954,  to  be worked in terms of the lease  which  provided,inter alia, that the lessee would neither be liable for	 anyof  the liabilities of the company, or of the liquidator  orthe  outgoing  lessees	nor bound to  engage  any  of  theiremployees   or	those  working	from  before  except   thosespecifically  mentioned in the lease.  On December 2,  1954,i.e. four days before the appellant came into possession  ofthe   sugar   factory,	the  Bihar   Government	  issued   anotification referring a dispute between the managements  ofcertain	 specified  sugar factories,  including	 Gaya  SugarMills  Ltd., and their workmen represented by their  Unions,for  adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal constituted  bythe  respondent No. i. No notice was given to the  appellantand  proceedings against it were all  exparte.	 Complaints,however,  were	made before the Industrial Tribunal  by	 twobatches of workmen against the appellant under s. 33A of theIndustrial  Disputes Act alleging in one case that they	 hadbeen  discharged  and in the other that	 the  conditions  oftheir  service	had been changed by  the  appellant  withoutfirst  obtaining the permission of the Tribunal under s.  33Of the Act.  It was asserted on behalf of the appellant thatthere  was  no	breach	of the terms of	 the  lease  and  nocontravention  of  s. 33 Of the Act.   After  unsuccessfullymoving	the  High  Court  under Arts. 226  and	227  Of	 theConstitution  for  a writ of certiorari	 quashing  the	saidproceedings, the appellant came up to this Court by  specialleave and it was contended on its behalf that(1)  no leave of the Court having been obtained under s. 171Of the	  Indian  Companies  Act  by  the  State  Governmentbefore it made the   reference	 under	s.  10(1)   of	 theIndustrial  Disputes Act, the reference was bad in  law	 andthat  (2)  the	word 'employer' in ss. 33  and	33A  of	 theIndustrial  Disputes  Act meant only such  employer  as	 wasactually concerned with the industrial dispute which was thesubject	 matter	 of the reference and the  appellant  havingcome into possession of the Mills after the reference, couldnot be an employer within the -meaning of those sections.255Held, that the terms of the notification properly  construedclearly	 showed that what was sought to be made a  party  tothe reference was not the company itself but its  managementat the	date of the reference and, therefore, no question ofleave of the court under s. 171 Of the Indian Companies	 Actcould arise.The  word  'employer'  occurring in ss. 33 and	33A  of	 theIndustrial   Disputes  Act  meant  the	identical   employerconcerned  with	 the  industrial  dispute,  which  was	 thesubject-matter of the adjudication, and could not include anemployer who merely happened to discharge or punish or alterthe  conditions of service of workmen unless  such  employercould  be  shown to be a mere nominee or bentamiday  of	 theformer or fell within the category of his heirs,  successorsor assigns within the meaning Of s. 18(3)(c) of the Act.Since, in the instant case, the appellant satisfied none  ofthese tests, it was not bound to seek the permission of	 theTribunal under s. 33 Of the Act and the proceedings under s.33A of the Act against it must be quashed.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.793 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedSeptember  20, of the Patna High Court in M.J.C. No. 392  of1955.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, A. B. N. Sinhaand B. P. Maheshwari, for the appellant.S. P. Varma, for respondents Nos. 1,2,6-8 and 10-23.1958.	November 4. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyBHAGWATI,  J.-This  appeal with special	 leave	is  directedagainst	 the  judgment of the High Court  of  Judicature  atPatna  dismissing  the	writ application  of  the  appellantseeking to quash the proceedings in Miscellaneous Cases Nos.26  and	 27 of 1955 before the Industrial  Tribunal,  Bihar,Patna.Gaya Sugar Mills Ltd., a Company incorporated in 1934  owneda Sugar Factory at Guraru, District Gaya.  An order for	 thecompulsory winding up of the Company was passed on  November4,1951,	 and by a subsequent order dated February  1,  1952,one  Dhansukh  Lal  Mehta was appointed	 liquidator  of	 theCompany.  In order to preserve the aforesaid Sugar Mills  atGuraru in proper running order and also for the beneficial256winding	 up of the Company the liquidator obtained under  S.III (b) of the Indian Companies Act sanction of the Court tolease  out  the said Mills with all the lands,	factory	 andresidential buildings and machineries etc.  The Guraru	CaneDevelopment  and Cane Marketing Union Ltd., were the  formerlessees	 of  the said mills but on the expiration  of  theirlease,	the liquidator obtained from the Court an  order  onDecember  3, 1954, sanctioning the lease in favour  of	ShriKrishna	 Gyanody sugar Ltd .; the appellant herein, for	 theperiod	December  5,1954  up to and  inclusive	of  November14,1955. The liquidator executed in favour of the  appellantlease  of  the said Mills on December 6,  1954,	 and  handedover possession of the same to the appellant the same day.The terms and conditions of the lease, in so far as they arematerial for our purposes provided that the appellant  wouldbe  put	 into possession of the leasehold  properties  in  aproper	working	 order and would work and  run	the  factorywithout	 any interference or obstruction by or on behalf  ofthe  lessor  and  would appropriate the	 entire	 income	 andprofit	thereof	 and the lessor would have no  concern	withprofit	or  loss  made by the lessee  in  running  the	saidfactory and would not be entitled to any sum or amount	overand above the rent therein reserved.  The appellant was	 notto be in any way liable or responsible for any of the liabi-lities	of the Company or of the liquidator or of  the	out-going lessees incurred whether before or after the appellantentered into possession except those mentioned therein.	 Theappellant  was	at its own cost entitled always	 to  install'any additional or other machinery or machineries and  erectgod owns or structures for the Purposes of and in connectionwith  the running of the said Mills after intimation to	 thelessor.	 The appellant was not bound to engage any or all ofthe  employees of the lessor or of the" Outgoing lessees  orany  of the persons who had been working from before  exceptthe  18 employees who were mentioned in Cl. 11 of the  leaseand  the  appellant also agreed not to	retrench  any  staffalready employed at that date in the Factory at Guraru (videcl. 13(v),of the lease).  The257properties  demised by the said lease were deemed to  be  inthe control of the Patna High Court and any dispute  betweenthe  lessor and the appellant in respect of the	 said  leasewas to be placed before the said Court for decision and	 thedecision made by the said Court was to be binding on all theparties.It  appears that on December 2, 1954, i.e., 4 (lays  before,the  execution of the said lease and delivery of  possessionof  the said Mills by the liquidator to the appellant,	the;Government of Bihar issued a notification referring  certaindisputes  between  the Managements of the,  Sugar  factoriesspecified   in	 Appendix  I  thereto  and   their   workmenrepresented  by	 the  Unions specified in  Appendix  It	 foradjudication  to  an Industrial Tribunal of which  Shri	 AliHassan,	 the  respondent No. 1 herein, was to be  tile	solemember.The terms of the reference stated :-"  Whereas  the	 State Government is  of  opinion  that	 ailIndustrial  dispute  exists or is  apprehended	between	 theManagement of the Sugar factories as specified in Appendix Iand their workmen represented by the Unions as specified  inAppendix 11 regarding the matters specified in Annexure A ;Now,  therefore,  in  exercise of the  powers  conferred  bysection	 7  read with sub-section (1) of section 10  of	 theIndustrial   Disputes  Act,  1947  (XIV	 of  1947)  and	  insupersession  of  Notification	No.   III/-DI-14020/54L15146dated  the  1st	 October, 1954, the  Governor  of  Bihar  ispleased	 to constitute an Industrial Tribunal of  which	 Mr.Ali Hussan shall be the sole member and to refer  the	saiddispute to the said Tribunal for adjudication.	      Annexure "A"1.   Retaining	allowance  to seasonal	employees  in  Sugarfactories in Bihar.2.   Leave and holidays to the employees including  seasonalemployees in Sugar factories.3.   Whether the deduction made in leave and holidays of theemployees  of  the  Management of  the	Sugar  factories  isunjustified  and  if  so what compensation  or	relief,	 theworkmen are entitled to33258There  were  as	 many as 28  Sugar  factories  specified  inAppendix  I  and as many as 38 Labour  Unions  specified  inAppendix  11.	The Gaya Sugar Mills Ltd.,  Guraru  was	 thesecond item in Appendix I and the Chini Mazdoor Sangh Guraruwas mentioned at the third item in Appendix 11.The respondent No. 1 entered upon the said reference.	Eventhough	Gaya  Sugar  Mills Ltd., Guraru which  was  then  inliquidation  was  not  specifically  described	as  such  inAppendix  1,  notice  was given to the,	 liquidator  by	 therespondent  No. 1 for January 11, 1955, which was  the	datefixed  for  hearing  before him.  The  said  letter  howeverreached the liquidator on January 13, 1955, whereupon by hisletter	dated January 14, 1955, he informed respondent	No.1about  it.   Respondent No. 1 however satisfied	 himself  bymerely	endorsing on the letter of the liquidator  that	 thehearing	 had  already  concluded and  nothing  further	thaninquiring  of the post office as to the reason of the  delayin  the	 delivery of the letter could be  done.	  RespondentNo.1  made  his	 award	on February 17,	 1955,	and  it	 waspublished in the Official Gazette on February 23, 1955.	 Theadjudication  proceedings  which had thus commenced  on	 thedate  of  the reference viz., December 2, 1954,	 came  to  aconclusion  on the expiry of 30 days of the  publication  ofthe  award  viz., on March 25, 1955, under s. 20(3)  of	 theIndustrial  Disputes Act, 1947.	 It appears that  an  appealwas  taken  to the Labour Appellate  Tribunal  against	thisaward and the appeal was decided on August 31, 1956.Even  though  the appellant was in possession  of  the	saidMills  under the terms-of the lease dated December 6,  1954,no notice was given by respondent No. 1 to the appellant andthe appellant therefore could not and did not appear  beforerespondent No. 1. So far as the appellant was concerned	 theproceedings  before  respondent No. 1 were  ex	parte.	 Twoapplications were, however, made on March 23, 1955, under s.33A  of	 the  Industrial Disputes Act,	one  by	 15  personsalleging  that	the  appellant had without  any	 reason	 andwithout	 any notice discharged them from employ one  by	 oneduring the months of January and February2591955 and the other by 5 persons alleging that the  appellanthad changed their conditions of service without any  reason,contending  that  the  said discharges	and  the  change  inconditions  of	service had been effected by  the  appellantduring	the pendency of the disputes before  the  IndustrialTribunal aforesaid without the permission of the  IndustrialTribunal having been obtained under s. 33 of the Act.  Theseapplications  were numbered as Miscellaneous Cases  Nos.  26and 27 of 1955 and the appellant received on April 7,  1955,two  notices  from respondent No. 1, both  dated  March	 25,1955,  informing the appellant about the filing of  the	 twomiscellaneous  cases and calling upon the appellant to	filestatements  showing cause by April 19, 1955.  The  appellantaccordingly  filed before respondent No. 1 two	applicationsor  statements	contending inter alia that  the	 applicationunder s. 33-A of the Industrial Disputes Act, filed by thosepersons (respondents Nos. 4 to 23 herein) were not maintain.able and were otherwise fit to be rejected.  It was assertedon  behalf of the appellant that the appellant as lessee  ofthe  said  Mills had strictly complied with  the  terms	 andconditions of the lease and there had been no  contraventionon  its	 part of s. 33 of the Act, in regard to any  of	 theworkmen concerned in the aforesaid two miscellaneous  cases.It  was pointed out that none of the persons who  had  filedthe  said applications was comprised in the 18	persons	 whowere  specifically mentioned in Cl. 11 of the lease and	 whowere  specifically exempted from the operation of  the	saidclause nor were they comprised in the category of members ofthe staff whom the appellant as lessee, was not entitled  toretrench under Cl. 13(v) of the lease, with the result	thatnone of the said clauses of the lease could be said to	havebeen violated by the appellant.On  July 13, 1955, the appellant filed in the High Court  ofJudicature  at Patna a writ application under Arts. 226	 and227  of the Constitution being Miscellaneous  Judicial	CaseNo.   392  of  1955  impleading	 the  Chairman,	  IndustrialTribunal,  Bihar as respondent No. 1, the State of Bihar  asrespondent No. 2, the liquidator as respondent No. 3 and theapplicants in260the said miscellaneous cases Nos. 26 and 27 of 1955  pendingbefore the Industrial Tribunal as respondents 'Nos. 4 to  23for  a	writ of certiorari quashing the	 said  MiscellaneousCases Nos. 26 and 27 of 1955, a writ of Mandamus restrainingthe  respondent	 No.  1 from proceeding	 with  or  otherwisedealing with the said miscellaneous cases costs and  furtherand other reliefs.The  main  Contentions urged by the appellant  in  the	saidpetition were:-(1)  that  under  each	one  of	 the  points  referred	 foradjudication,  considerable burden was sought to be  imposedon  the sugar factories concerned ; that all the  propertiesand effects of the Gay Sugar Mills Ltd., were in the custodyof  the Court as from the date of the order for	 Winding  upviz., November 14,1951 ; that ,the said notification did notpurport to include Gaya Sugar Mills Ltd., in that light	 anddid  not  describe the company as having already  gone	intoliquidation ; that no leave of the Court was obtained beforecommencing or continuing the proceedings before the Tribunaland in fact the liquidator was neither named as a party	 norwas  any  notice  given to him of the  commencement  of	 theproceedings  and  that therefore go far as the	Gava  StugarMills  Ltd.,  (In Liquidation) was concerned  there  was  noproceedingly  in the eye of the law before respondent No.  1and  as such the Miscellaneous Cases Nos. 26 and 27 of	1955of  which  notices had been sent to the appellant  were	 notmaintainable; and(2)  that no notice of the adjudication proceedings  arisingout of the aforesaid Notification dated December 2, 1954, "-as at any stage given to the appellant who was in possessionunder the terms of the lease granted by the Court ; that theappellant  being lessee under orders and under terms of	 thelease  approved	 by the Court was liable for breach  of	 theterms  of  the	lease, if any, and that also  to  the  Courtalone;	that  there  was  no  violation	 of  s.	 33  of	 theIndustrial Disputes Act, if the appellant bona fide acted upto  the terms of the lease and being itself no party to	 anyadjudication  proceedings-before  any  Tribunal	 or   beforerespondent No. 1 there could be no breach of s. 33 of261the Act and as such no application under s. 33A.of the,	 Actcould be maintained against the appellant.No  affidavit in reply was filed by or on behalf of  any  ofthe  respondents  and the application came  up	for  hearingbefore	Ramaswami,  C.	J. and Raj Kishore  Prasad,  J.	 whodelivered  the judgment of the Court on September 20,  1956,dismissing the application with costs.Assuming  but  without,	 expressing  any  opinion  that	 thereference  made by the State Government under s.   10(1)  ofthe  Industrial -Disputes Act was a legal proceeding  withinthe  meaning of s. 171 of the Indian Companies Act the	HighCourt  held that s. 10(1) of the Industrial , Disputes	Act,was not controlled by s. 171 of the Indian Companies Act andtherefore no leave of the Court was necessary before  makinga  reference of the Industrial Disputes under s. 10  (1)  ofthe  Industrial Disputes, Act.. It was also of opinion	thateven  though the reference under s. 10(1) of the  IndustrialDispute Act was made by the State Government on December  2,1954,  and  the applicant had taken the lease  of  the	saidMills subsequently i. e., on December 6, 1954, the applicantwas  an " employer " within the meaning of the term used  inss. 33 and 33A of the Act, and that it was not necessary forthe  application  of  either  of  those	 sections  that	 theemployer  who  discharges  or punishes the  workmen  or	 whoalters	the conditions of service of the workmen  should  bethe  identical employer concerned in the industrial  disputewhich  is  the	subject-matter	of  adjudication.   It	 wassufficient  for invoking the provisions of either  of  thosesections  that	there is the relationship  of  employer	 andemployee at the -time the workman is discharged or  punishedor at the time his conditions of service are altered to	 hisprejudice.   It was further of opinion that even though	 theliquidator was not made a party to the reference made by theState  Government under s. 10(1) of the Industrial  DisputesAct,  the  Gaya Sugar Mills Ltd.,  Guraru  was	specificallymentioned  as  one. of the parties in Appendix I,  that	 theGaya  Sugar Mills Ltd., continued to be a legal	 personalitythough	an order for winding up had been made and that there262fore the Company was properly made a party to the  referenceunder  S. 10(1) of the Act.  The fact that the notice  givento  the	 liquidator  on January 11, 1955,  might  have	beenreceived  late by the liquidator did not, in the opinion  ofthe  Court, make any difference to the position inasmuch  asthe  award of the Industrial Tribunal was made	on  February17, 1955, i. e., long after the date of the notice and therewas  no lack of jurisdiction in the Industrial	Tribunal  tomake  the  award valid and binding on the Gaya	Sugar  MillsLtd.,  Guraru.	 The  High Court  accordingly  rejected	 theapplication as stated above.The  applicant applied for leave to appeal to this Court  onNovember  9, 1956, but the High Court refused to  grant	 thecertificate on the ground that the proceeding for grant of awrit of certiorari under Art. 226 is not a civil  proceedingwithin	the  meaning of Art. 133 of the	 Constitution.	 Theapplicant thereupon applied for and obtained from this Courton April 1, 1957, special leave to appeal and the appeal hasnow come up for hearing and final disposal before us.The two main contentions which were urged before us by thelearned Counsel for the appellant were:-(1)  that the Gaya Sugar Mills Ltd., Guraru had beentaken	  into liquidation and respondent No. 3 had beenappointed the liquidator thereof; that the reference made bythe State Government to the Industrial Tribunal on  December2, 1954, involved considerable financial burden on the	saidMills  and- the State Government ought to have obtained	 thesanction  of the Court under s. 171 of the Indian  CompaniesAct before making a reference of the industrial disputes  tothe  Industrial	 Tribunal under s. 10(1) of  the  IndustrialDisputes  Act, qua the said Mills and that not	having	beendone, the reference was bad in law and there was no questionof the applicability of either s. 33 or s.   33A of the Act,and(2)  that  on a true construction of ss. 33 and 33A  of	 theAct, the " employer " therein mentioned could only be the  "employer " concerned in the industrial dispute which was thesubject-matter	of reference, that the applicant  had  takenthe lease of the said:			    263sugar  Mills on December 6, 1954, 4 days after the  date  ofreference  made by the State Government under, s.  10(1)  ofthe  Act,  and	that therefore the applicant was  not  an  "employer " within the meaning of the terms as used in s.  33or  s. 33A of the Act, and even if the allegations  made  bythe applicants in Miscellaneous Cases Nos. 26 and 27 of 1955before	respondent No. 1 were correct, it was not  necessaryfor  the  applicant to have obtained the permission  of	 theIndustrial  Tribunal under a. 33 of the Act,  and  thereforethe said applications under s. 33A of the Act, filed by res-pondents 4 to 23 were not maintainable.It will be appropriate at this stage to set out the relevantsections  of  the Indian Companies Act	and  the  IndustrialDisputes  Act,	1947 (as they then stood) which fall  to  beconsidered by us in this appeal.S.   171 (Indian Companies Act):" Suits stayed on winding up order: When a winding up  orderhas been made or a provisional liquidator has been appointedno suit or other legal proceeding shall be proceeded with orcommenced against the company except by leave of   the Court,and subject to such terms as the Court may impose."S.10(1)	  (Industrial  Disputes	 Act,	1947):Reference	  ofdisputes to Boards, Courts or Tribunals:Where  the  appropriate Government is of  opinion  that	 anyindustrial  dispute exists or is apprehended, it may at	 anytime, by order in writing-(a)  refer the dispute to a Board for promoting a settlementthereof;(b)  refer  any	 matter appearing to be	 connected  with  orrelevant to the dispute to a Court for inquiryor(c)  refer  the.  dispute  or any  matter  appearing  to  beconnected with or relevant to, the dispute to a Tribunal foradjudication:Provided that where the dispute relates to a public  utilityservice	 and a notice under section 22 has been	 given,	 theappropriate  Government shall, unless it considers that	 thenotice has been frivolously or vexatiously given or that  itwould be inexpedient so264to   do,  make	a  reference  under  this  subsection	not-withstanding  that any other proceedings under this  Act  inrespect of the dispute may have commenced,"S.   33	 (Ibid):  Conditions  of  service  etc.,  to  remainunchanged during pendency of proceedingsDuring	the  pendency  of any  conciliation  proceedings  orproceedings  before a Tribunal in respect of any  industrialdispute, no employer shall-(a)  alter,  to	 the prejudice of the workmen  concerned  insuch dispute, the conditions of service applicable, to	themimmediately before the commencement of such proceedings; or(b)  discharge or punish, whether by dismissal or otherwise,any workman concerned in such dispute, save with the expresspermission in writing of the conciliation officer, Board  orTribunal, as the casemay  be."33-A (Ibid): Special provisions for adjudicationas to	  whether conditions of service etc., changed duringpendency of proceedings:" Where an employer contravenes the provisions of section 33during	the pendency of proceedings before a  Tribunal,	 anyemployee  aggrieved  by	 such  contravention,  may  make   acomplaint  in  writing,	 in the prescribed  manner  to	suchTribunal  and  on receipt of such  complaint  that  Tribunalshall adjudicate upon the complaint as if it were a  disputereferred  to  or pending before it, in accordance  with	 theprovisions  of	this Act and shall submit its award  to	 theappropriate  Government and the provision of this Act  shallapply accordingly."As to (1):-Section 171 of the Indian Companies Act occurs inPart  V	 which relates to the winding up  of  companies	 andprescribes  that  once a winding up order has been  made  nosuit  or other legal proceedings shall be proceeded with  orcommenced against the Company except by leave.of the windingup Court and subject to such terms as the Court may  impose.The Court is in custody of all. the properties and assets ofthe Company through the liquidator and is in control of	 thewinding up-proceedings with a view to the proper realizationof the assets: and, the equitable,265distribution  thereof amongst the creditors of the  Company.No suit or other legal proceeding can therefore be proceededwith  or, commenced against the' Company except by leave  ofthe Court and such leave is a necessary prerequisite of	 theprosecution  of such legal proceeding.	In order  to  decidethe  question of the applicability of s. 171 of	 the  IndianCompanies  Act	it  has to be ascertained  (a)	whether	 thereference  in question is a proceeding against the  Company,and,  if So (b) whether such reference can be said to  be  alegal proceeding within the meaning of s. 171 of the  IndianCompanies Act.There  has  been unfortunately a considerable  confusion  ofthought	 in  the  court below and the facts  have  not	beenproperly  appreciated.	The first question to determine	 waswho was the party to the reference.  It appears to have beenassumed that the Gay a Sugar Mills Ltd., was a party to	 thereference and that the only defect in the order of referencewas  that the liquidator was not made a party to the  refer-ence.  This difficulty was sought to be got over by  holdingthat  the  Gaya Sugar Mills Ltd., continued to	be  a  legalpersonality  though an order for winding up had	 been  made,that the Company had not ceased to exist as a legal. entity,and, therefore, the Company was properly made a party to thereference  under  s. 10(1) of the Industrial  Disputes	Act.This  was,  however,  not the correct  position	 on  a	trueinterpretation of the terms of reference.  The reference wasbetween the managements of the Sugar factories specified  inAppendix  I  and  their workmen represented  by	 the  Unionsspecified in Appendix 11.  Gaya Sugar Mills Ltd., Guraru wasmentioned as item 2 in Appendix I but it is quite clear thatwhat was intended to be made a party to the reference  underthis  item  was the:-management of the Sugar  factory  whichbelonged  to the Company called the Gaya Sugar	Mills  Ltd.,whoever. that management may be.  The mention of the Companywas  to	 indicate and to point out  the	 particular  factorywhose  management  for the time being was to be one  of	 theparties to the reference and34266it required to be ascertained who was comprised within the "management  " of the Mills.  The State Government could	 nothave  been oblivious of the fact that the Company  had	goneinto  liquidation and a liquidator of the Company  had	beenappointed  by the court and was leasing out the	 factory  todifferent  lessees.  If the Company itself were a  party  tothe  reference the liquidator ought to have  been  mentionedthere  as  such	 but that apparently was not  done  for	 thesimple	reason	that  the factory was being  worked  by	 thelessees under the terms of the leases duly sanctioned by thecourt.	 The liquidator was therefore not in  management  ofthe factory and the only persons who were in management werethe  then  lessees  to	whom  leases  were  granted  by	 theliquidator  with the sanction of the court.  The  IndustrialTribunal  was obviously in error when it gave notice of	 theproceedings  to the liquidator.	 The liquidator was no	morein management of the factory and was therefore not  entitledto  be	served	with any notice; the then  lessees  were  inmanagement and they were the only parties to whom notice  ofthe  proceedings should have been given.  The liquidator  nodoubt wrote to the Industrial Tribunal that he had  receivedthe  notice too late for him to attend.	 This letter of	 theliquidator was treated with scant courtesy by the IndustrialTribunal who merely endorsed at the foot of the letter	thatthe  hearing had already concluded and nothing further	thanenquiring  of the Post Office as to the reason of the  delayin the delivery of the letter could be done.  The IndustrialTribunal  proceeded to make its award on February 17,  1955,without	 having	 before it the management  of  the  factory,viz.,  the  lessees who had obtained the lease of  the	saidMills from the liquidator and for all practical purposes thesaid  award was ex parte so far as the lessees who  were  atthe  date of the reference in management of the factory	 andwere obviously intended to be a party to the reference	wereconcerned.   The  appellant  came  into	 management  of	 thefactory after the reference and could not at the date of thereference  be in contemplation of the State Government as  aparty and in- any267event, no notice whatever was given to the appellant' of theproceedings   before  the  Tribunal.   By  no	stretch	  ofimagination   could  it	 be  said  that	 the   Company	 (InLiquidation)  was a party to the reference, the	 said  Millshaving	been  given on lease to the lessees who	 worked	 theMills thereafter not for and on behalf of the Company but ontheir own account, they being responsible for the profit andloss  in  the working of the Mills.  The  Company  thus	 notbeing  a party to the reference the proceedings	 which	werecommenced on December 2, 1954, before the Tribunal were	 notproceedings  against  the Company  (In	Liquidation).  -Thisbeing  the position on a true construction of the  terms  ofthe  notification  by  which  the  reference  was  made	 thequestion whether the reference was a legal proceeding withinthe  meaning of s. 171 Of the Indian Companies Act does	 notarise  for  our decision and we prefer not  to	express	 anyopinion on that part of the question.As to (2):-The next question to consider is the	 connotationof  the term " employer " as used in ss. 33 and 33A  of	 theIndustrial  Disputes  Act.   These  sections  postulate	 thependency  of  a	 proceeding of an  industrial  dispute.	  Itrequires  two to raise a dispute.  An Industrial Dispute  isthus  defined in s. 2(k) of the Act:,,Industrial dispute " means any dispute or difference betweenemployers  and employers, or between employers and  workmen,or between workmen and workmen, which is connected with	 theemployment  or non-employment or the terms of employment  orwith conditions of labour, of any person.If  this  definition  is bodily lifted from  s.	 2  (k)	 andsubstituted  for  the  expression  "  industrial  dispute  ",occurring  in s. 33 and ss. 33 and 33A of the Act are	thenread, it will at once become clear that the employer can  beno  other  than the employer with whom the workers  had	 theindustrial  dispute  and cannot mean merely  an	 employ	 whodischarges  or	punishes  or who alters	 the  conditions  ofservice	 of  the workmen concerned.  If	 the  interpretationadopted by the High Court was correct it would mean that theIndustrial668dispute which is referred for adjudication to the IndustrialTribunal may have arisen between employer A and his  workmenbut during the pendency of those proceedings employer B	 whohad  nothing to do with employer A would be  prevented	fromdischarging  or	 punishing  the workmen	 or  altering  theirconditions  of	service,  provided  only  that	the  workmenconcerned  happened  to	 be  interested	 in  the  industrialdispute	 which was pending before the  Industrial  Tribunal.If there is no connection at all between the employer A	 andthe employer B in the illustration given above, one fails tosee  how  a  mere  identity of	the  establishments  or	 theidentity  of  the  workmen  could be  enough  to  bring	 theemployer  B within the purview of these sections.  The	verypurpose of the enactment of as. 33 and 33A of the IndustrialDisputes Act is, as observed by this Court in the AutomobileProducts of India Ltd.v.   Bukmaji Bala (1)."  to ensure that proceedings in connection with  industrialdisputes already pending should be brought to a	 terminationin a peaceful atmosphere and that no employer should  duringthe  pendency  of those proceedings take any action  of	 thekind mentioned in the sections which may give rise to  freshdisputes  likely to further exacerbate the already  strainedrelation  between the employer and the workmen.	 To  achievethis  object a ban has been imposed upon the ordinary  rightwhich  the employer has under the ordinary law	governing  acontract  of  employment.  Section 22 of the  1950  Act	 andsection 33 of the 1947 Act which impose the ban also providefor  the  removal  of that ban by the  granting	 of  expresspermission in writing in appropriate cases by the  authoritymentioned therein."The scope of the enquiry under section 33 of the  IndustrialDisputes   Act	 has  also  been  the  subject	 matter	  ofadjudication by this Court and it was held in Atherton	West&  Co.,	 Ltd.  v.  Suti Mill  Mazdoor  Union  (2)  that	 theauthority:"  concerned  would  institute an enquiry and  come  to	 theconclusion whether there was a prima facie case(1) [1955] i S.C.R. 1241, 1256.(2) [1953] S.C.R. 780, 787.269made  out for the discharge or dismissal of the workman	 andthe  employer, his agent or manager was not actuated by	 anyimproper motives or did not resort to any unfair practice orvictimisation  in  the matter of the proposed  discharge  ordismissal of the workman."A  similar ratio would apply where an employer	changes	 theconditions of service of the workmen concerned.	 If this  bethe  criterion	for  determining  whether  an  employer	 wasentitled  to discharge or punish the workmen or alter  theirconditions  of service without the permission in writing  ofthe  authority concerned that employer cannot be  any  otherthan  the  one who is concerned in  the	 industrial  disputewhich is the subject matter of adjudication.  If employer  Bhas  nothing to do at all with employer A who is really	 theparty  concerned  in such industrial dispute  which  is	 thesubject-matter of adjudication, there will be no question ofattributing  any  improper  motives or	unfair	practice  orvictimization  to  the employer B in regard  to	 the  actionwhich he proposed to take against the workmen.	Whether	 theemployer  B  would be entitled to such action or  not  wouldhave  to  be determined in other proceedings  which  may  betaken  in  the	matter	of  industrial	disputes  which	 maysubsequently  arise  between himself and his  workmen  aftersuch action was taken.	But he would certainly not be  boundbefore taking such action to seek the permission in  writingof  the	 Industrial  Tribunal  before  which  an  industrialdispute	 was  pending as between those workmen	and  anotheremployer   with	 whom  he  had	no  concern.	The   latterinterpretation	is  therefore more in  consonance  with	 theprinciple   underlying	the  enactment	of  s.	33  of	 theIndustrial  Disputes  Act  and	it must	 be  held  that	 theemployer  contemplated by ss. 33 and 33A of  the  IndustrialDisputes Act must be the identical employer concerned in theindustrial   dispute   which  is   the	 subject-matter	  ofadjudication.  In other words, the employer contemplated  byss.  33 and 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act must  be	 theemployer with whom the workmen mentioned as aggrieved  unders. 33 had a subsisting relationship of employer270and  employees	at  the	 commencement  of  the	 proceedingsreferred to in those sections.	The identity of the employerat  the commencement of the reference with the employer	 whointends	 to take proceedings within the ban of s. 33 of	 theAct  must  be established and if the latter has	 no  concernwith  or relationship with the former ss. 33 and 33A of	 theAct do not dome into operation at all.	Such identity  couldin  the event of change in the employers be  established  byshowing	 that  the latter employer was merely a	 nominee  orBenamidar  of  the  former  or that on	the  analogy  of  s.18(3)(c) of the Industrial Disputes Act he came with in	 thedescription of " his heirs, successors or assigns in respectof the establishment to which the dispute relates, in  whichevent  the award made by the Indus. trial Tribunal would  bebinding on him just as much as on the former employer of theworkmen	 concerned.  These are, however, the only  cases  inwhich according to the provisions of the Industrial DisputesAct the identity of the employers at the commencement of theproceedings  and  the intended discharge  or  punishment  orchange in the conditions of service of the workmen concernedcould be established and unless the employer who intended todischarge  or punish or change the conditions of service  ofthe  workmen was in this sense identical with  the  employerwho  was  concerned in the industrial dispute which  is	 thesubject-matter	of adjudication no question could  arise  ofthe operation of section 33 or section 33A of the IndustrialDisputes Act.What  then  was	 the position of  the  appellant  under	 thereference  in question ? It does not appear from the  recordas  to who was the management of the said Mills on  December2,  1954.   The lease in favour of the old  lessees,  GuraruCane   Development  and	 Cane  Marketing  Union	 Ltd.,	 hadapparently  come to an end by efflux of time, the period  ofthe  lease  presumably being up to the end of  the  crushingseason	which would end some time in the month of  November,1954.	An  application had been made by the  liquidator  togrant	a  lease  in  favour  of  the  appellant  and	thisapplication was granted by the Court on December 3, 1954, sothat  in  any event before December 3, 1954,  the  appellantcould271not  be said to be in management of 'the said Mills.   As  amatter	of  fact, the lease was executed in  favour  of	 theappellant  on  December 6, 1954, and the possession  of	 thesaid Mills was also given to the appellant by the liquidatoron the same day.  It could not, therefore, be said that	 theappellant  was	comprised  within  the	description  of	 themanagement  of the Gaya Sugar Mills Ltd., at the  date	whenthe reference was made by the State Government.	 If that wasso,  a reference Of a previous date, without anything  more,could  not comprise the appellant within its scope and	thatappears to have been the position as understood even by	 theIndustrial  Tribunal which gave no notice to  the  appellantbut gave notice of the proceedings erroneously as we hold tothe  liquidator	 of the Company.  The appellant was  not  inmanagement  of the said Mills and it could not be  bound  bythe  reference	because	 at no stage was  any  attempt	madeeither to amend the terms of the reference or even to  serveon  the appellant a notice of the proceedings which were  totake  place  before  the  Industrial  Tribunal.	  Under	 theIndustrial  Disputes (Central) Rules, 1947, enacted  by	 theCentral Government in exercise of the powers conferred	uponit by section 38 of the Industrial Disputes Act,  intimationof the place and time of hearing had got to be given to	 theparties	 to  the  reference (Rule 10);	and  the  IndustrialTribunal was enjoined to call upon the parties at the  firstsitting to state their case (Rule 11)  the only power  givento  the Industrial Tribunal to proceed ex parte was  when  aparty  to  the	proceedings  failed  to	 attend	 or  to	  berepresented  without  good cause shown (Rule 19) ;  and	 therepresentatives	  of   the  parties  appearing	 before	  anIndustrial  Tribunal were to have the right of	examination,cross-examination  and	of  addressing	the  Tribunal	whenevidence  had  been called (Rule 24) : The  'whole  of	thisprocedure  envisaged  the  parties to  the  reference  beingproperly  notified of the proceedings before the  IndustrialTribunal   and taking part therein either by  themselves  orthrough, their authorised representatives.  The fact that nosuch  notice  was given to the appellant by  the  IndustrialTribunal goes to show that in the circum-272stances	 that  obtained	 the  appellant	 was  certainly	 notunderstood  by	the Tribunal as having been a party  to	 thereference  and	it could not be said on the  -terms  of	 thereference  itself which was made on December 2,	 1954,	thatthe  appellant, which came into existence as the lessees  ofthe said Mills on December 6, 1954, was a party to the	saidreference.   If	 the old lessees were in management  of	 thesaid  Mills  on December 2 1954, there was  no	identity  ofemployers  as between them and the appellant, the  appellantcertainly  did not claim under the old lessees nor could  itbe  described as their " heirs, successors or assigns  "  inrespect	 of the establishment to which the  dispute  relatedwithin	the  meaning  of  s. 18(3)  (c)	 of  the  IndustrialDisputes  Act,	There  is no suggestion	 whatever  that	 theappellant was or is a benamidar of the previous lessees.  Inno event could the appellant therefore be held to be,  boundeither by the reference or the award made by the  IndustrialTribunal,  the identity of the employers at the date of	 thereference  with	 the  employers at the time  when  the	actscomplained  of	in  the applications under s.  33-A  of	 theIndustrial  Disputes Act were purported to be done  by	themnot having been established.If  that is the true position, no question of the  appellantobtaining  written  permission of  the	Industrial  Tribunalunder  s. 33 of the Act for discharging or punishing or	 foreffecting  a  change  in the conditions of  service  of	 theworkmen	 concerned could arise.	 If no such permission	wereneeded, s. 33A of the Act also could not come into operationand  the applications in Miscellaneous Cases Nos. 26 and  27of 1955 we're not maintainable.The result is no doubt unfortunate ; because the  Industrialdisputes  which were referred to the Industrial Tribunal  bythe  reference in question were general in their nature	 andwould  comprise	 within	 their scope the  workmen  who	wereworking in the Gaya Sugar Mills Ltd., at all relevant times.The appellant came in management of the said Mills from	 andafter  December 6, 1954, and it was certainly intended	thatthese, disputes which had either existed or were apprehendedbetween the appellant on the one hand and the workmen			    273working in the said Mills on the other should be adjudicatedupon  under the terms of that reference.  If  the  appellantcould	be  comprised  within  the  description	 of  the   "management " of the said Mills at the date of the reference,viz.,  December 2, 1954, the object and the purpose  of	 thereference  qua	the  workmen  of the  said  Mills  would  beaccomplished.  The difficulty, however, is that the  severalmanagements  which would come into existence  on  successiveleases being granted by the Court in the present case cannotbe said to have been comprised within the term	"managementsof the Sugar factories specified in Appendix I" even  thoughthe  Gaya  Sugar Mills Ltd., Guraru is mentioned as  item  2therein.   Such	 a  construction  would	 make  the   severalsuccessive lessees who came into existence during the  wholeof  the	 period when the reference was pending	-before	 theIndustrial Tribunal parties to the reference involving freshnotices	 to  be	 issued,  fresh statements  of	case  to  befurnished,  fresh  hearing  to be granted, to  each  of	 thesuccessive  lessees under the Industrial Disputes  (Central)Rules,	1947, a result which certainly could not  have	beencontemplated by the State Government when the reference wasmade.It,  therefore,	 follows that the appellant was not  by	 anycount  a party to the reference dated December 2, 1954,	 andnot  being  such a party was not an  "employer"	 within	 themeaning	 of ss. 33 and 33-A of the Industrial  Disputes	 Actqua the workmen who filed the applications in  MiscellaneousCases Nos. 26 and 27 of 1955.  If the workmen felt that theyhave been victimised or that there had been an unfair labourpractice, they could perhaps raise fresh industrial disputesand press the State Government to make a fresh reference  oftheir  industrial disputes under s. 10(1) of the Act, as  towhich  we say nothing, but it is quite clear to us that	 theworkmen	 cannot in the circumstances of this case  raise  anindustrial  dispute  indirectly	 by having  recourse  to  anapplication  under s. 33-A of the Act.	In the	premises  ifthe  appellant was not bound, as we hold it was not, to	 askfor the written permission of the35274Industrial   Tribunal  before  discharging,   punishing	  oreffecting  a  change  in the conditions of  service  of	 theworkmen	 concerned no application under s. 33-A of  the	 Actcould  be maintained against it even on the assumption	thatthe allegations made in the said applications were correct.The  result,  therefore,  is that the  proceedings  in	Mis-cellaneous  Cases  Nos. 26 and 27 of 1955  before  the	res-pondent No. 1, Industrial Tribunal, Bihar, Patna are withoutjurisdiction  and liable to be quashed.	 The appeal  of	 theappellant  will therefore be allowed, the order made by	 theHigh  Court on September 20, 1956, will be set aside  and  awrit  of  certiorari  will issue against  respondent  No.  1quashing  the  proceedings in the said	Miscellaneous  CasesNos.  26 and 27 of 1955.  The appellant will be entitled  toits costs throughout against the contesting respondents.Appeal allowed.