PETITIONER:CHANDI PRASAD SINGH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH.DATE OF JUDGMENT:07/12/1955BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABOSE, VIVIANCITATION: 1956 AIR  149		  1955 SCR  (2)1035ACT:Trial before Sessions Judge for an offence under s. 409,  I.P. C. with the aid of assessors for misappropriating certainsums  of  money	 from three  different	persons-Received  byappellant as Secretary of a Company-And for an offence unders.  477-A, I.P.C. for falsifying a minute book-With the	 aidof Jury-Same persons acting as assessors and  jurors-Verdictof  not guilty in respect of both charges-Disagreement	withverdict	 of  jury under s. 477-A and reference to  the	HighCourt  under s. 307 of the Code of  Criminal  Procedure-Dis-agreement  with	 the opinion of assessors under s.  409	 andconviction  of accused-Appeal to the High  Court-Appeal	 andreference  both	 heard	together  and  disposed	 of  by	 onejudgment  by High Court-Sessions Judge	whether	 contravenedany provision of law or committed illegality in acting as hedid-Appellant's status-Whether that of a servant or that  ofan  agent-Servant  and	agent-Distinction  between-Appellantcharged with three offences under s. 409, I.P.C. and one of-fence under s. 477-A, I.P.C.-Whether contravention of s. 234of  the	 Code of Criminal Procedure-S. 235 of  the  Code  ofCriminal Procedure-Applicability of.HEADNOTE:The  appellant was tried by the Sessions Judge with the	 aidof  assessors  for  an	offence under  s.  409,	 I.P.C.	 formisappropriating certain sums of money received as  promoterof  a Company from three ,different persons for the  purposeof  allotment of shares and omitted to be brought  into	 theCompany	 after it was formed, and also for an offence  unders. 477-A, I.P.C. by the same Sessions Judge with the aid  ofa jury for the offence of falsifying a minute book, the samepersons acting both as assessors and jurors.  They  returneda verdict of not guilty in respect of both the charges.	 TheSessions  Judge,  disagreeing with the verdict of  the	juryunder s. 477-A, referred the matter to the High Court  unders. 307 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.  Disagreeing	alsowith  the opinion of the assessors in respect of the  chargeunder  s.  409,	 I.P.C. he held	 the  appellant	 guilty	 andsentenced  him to 4 years' rigorous  imprisonment.   Againstthis  conviction the appellant appealed to the	High  Court.Both  the  reference under s. 307 of the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure  and	the appeal were heard together by  the	HighCourt  which confirmed the appellant's conviction  under  s.409  and  the  sentence passed by  the	Sessions  Judge	 anddisagreeing with the verdict of the jury it held him  guiltyunder  s.  477-A and sentenced him to  two  years'  rigorousimprisonment.	On  appeal by special leave to	the  SupremeCourt:-Held  (i) that the contention that when the  Sessions  Judgedisagreed  with the verdict of the jury and the	 opinion  ofthe assessors,1036he  should have referred the whole case under s. 307 of	 theCode of Criminal Procedure to the High Court and not  merelythat part of it which related to the charge under s.  477-A,I.P.C.	was  without force because the	Sessions  Judge	 hadcontravened no provision of law and committed no  illegalityin  deciding the case which related to the charge  under  s.409, I.P.C. That s. 307, Code of Criminal Procedure  appliesin terms only to trials by a jury and the Sessions Judge hadno  power under that section to refer cases tried  with	 theaid of assessors for the decision of the High Court.  In thepresent case there was the further fact that both the appealagainst	 the  conviction  under	 s.  409,  I.P.C.  and	 thereference under s. 307 of the Code of Criminal Procedure  inrespect of the charge under s. 477-A were disposed of by thesame judgment;(ii)that the contention that the appellant's true status wasthat  of  a  servant and not that of an agent  and  that  heshould have been tried not under s. 409, I.P.C. but under s.408,  I.P.C. was also without force inasmuch as	 his  statuswas  that of an agent and not that of a servant in  view  ofhis  duties  as Secretary of the Society.   The	 distinctionbetween	 the  two is this a servant acts  under	 the  directcontrol and supervision of the master, and is bound to	con-form to all reasonable orders given to him in the course  ofhis work. An agent though bound to exercise his authority inaccordance  with all lawful instructions which may be  givento him from time to time by his principal, is not subject inits  exercise  to the direct control or supervision  of	 theprincipal;(iii)that the contention that there had been violation of s.234 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in that the  appellanthad  been charged with three offences under s.	409,  I.P.C.and  one under s. 477-A was also without force as  the	casewas governed by s. 235 of the Code of Criminal Procedure  asthe  several  offences under s. 409, I.P.C.  and  s.  477-A,I.P.C.	arose  out of the same acts and formed part  of	 thesame transaction.Emperor v. Haria Dhobi, (A.I.R. 1937 Patna 662), PachaimuthuIn  re,	 ([1932]  I.L.R. 55 Mad. 715),	Emperor	 v.  LachmanGangota,  (A.I.R.  1934	 Patna	424),  Emperor	v.  Kalidas,([1898] 8 Bom.	L.R. 599), Emperor v. Vyankat Sing ([1907] 9Bom.   L.R.  1057) and Emperor v. Chanbasappa  (A.I.R.	1932Bom. 61), referred to.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 150  of1954.On  appeal  by leave from the judgment and order  dated	 the23rd March 1954 of the Allahabad High Court (Lucknow  Bench)in  Criminal Appeal No. 112 of 1953 connected with  CriminalReference  Register  No.  15  of 1953  arising	out  of	 thejudgment and order dated the 24th February 1953 in  SessionsTrial No. 5 of 1952 of the Sessions Court at Lucknow.1037B, B. Tawakley, (K.  P. Gupta and A. D. Mathur with him) forthe appellant. S.P. Sinha (K.	 B. Asthana and C. P. Lal with him) for	 therespondent.1955.	December 7. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyVENKATARAMA  AYYAR  J.-This is an appeal  by  special  leaveagainst	 the  judgment	of  the	 High  Court  of   Allahabadaffirming  the conviction of the appellant by  the  SessionsJudge,	Lucknow under sections 409 and 477-A of	 the  IndianPenal Code.On 12-2-1949 a Society known as the Model Town	Co-operativeHousing	 Society, Ltd., was registered under the  provisionsof  the Co-operative Societies Act (II of 1912), its  objectbeing to acquire vacant sites in the town of Lucknow and  toallot  them  to its members so as to enable  them  to  buildhouses	of their own.  The appellant was the chief  promoterthereof, and collected monies from prospective	shareholdersby  way of share money.	 The first general body	 meeting  ofthe  Society  was held on 1-3-1949.  At	 that  meeting,	 theappellant  was elected Honorary Secretary and one Sri  MunnaLal Tewari as Treasurer.  The latter having resigned, one S.C.  Varma  was appointed Treasurer in his stead.   On  22-4-1949,  there  was a meeting of the  Managing  Committee,  atwhich  the appellant was directed to band over the  accountsof  the	 Society and its funds to its  Treasurer.   The	 ap-pellant gave a list of 38 persons as members of the Society,delivered cheques issued by 13 of them as their share money,and paid a sum of Rs. 3,500 being the amount stated to	havebeen  received	by him from the other 25  members  as  sharemoney.	The Society did not function thereafter.On  16-7-1949  some  of the members wrote a  letter  to	 theRegistrar  of Co-operative Societies pointing out  that	 theSociety had not functioned ever since its incorporation, andasking	that  steps might be taken for	examination  of	 itsaccounts  and,	if necessary, for its being  wound  up.	  Onthis,  there  was  an investigation of the  affairs  of	 theSociety by two Assistant1038Registrars,  and on the basis of their reports	dated  22-2-1950  and  18-5-1950  the present  prosecution	was  startedagainst	 the appellant charging him under sections  409	 and477-A  of the Indian Penal Code.  The charge  under  section409  was that he had received a sum of Rs. 500 from one	 SriChaturvedi,  a	sum  of Rs. 100 from Dr. 0.  P.	 Bhanti	 andanother	 sum  of Rs. 100 from Dr. R. S. Seth, all  as  sharemoney in December 1948, and that he had misappropriated	 thesame.  The charge under section 477-A was that on  22-4-1949the  appellant	acting	as  the	 Secretary  of	the  Societyfalsified the minute book, Exhibit P-18, by omitting to showtherein	 the  share money received from	 the  three  personsabove mentioned.  The defence of the appellant was that	 thethree amounts aforesaid were paid to him not as	 prospectiveSecretary  for the purpose of allotment of shares, but	weredeposited with him in his individual capacity for purchasingshares, in case the Society worked well.The trial of the offence under section 409 was held with theaid  of assessors and that under section 477-A with the	 aidof  a  jury, the same persons acting both as  assessors	 andjurors,	 and  they  returned a verdict of  not	guilty	withreference  to  the  charges under both	the  sections.	 TheSessions  Judge,  disagreeing with the verdict of  the	juryunder  section 477-A, referred the matter to the High  Courtunder  section	307 of the Code of Criminal  Procedure.	  Healso  disagreed	 with  the opinion  of	the  assessors	withreference to the charge under section 409, and held that theappellant  was	guilty	and sentenced  him  to	four  years'rigorous  imprisonment	and a fine of Rs.  1,000,.   Againstthis  conviction, the appellant preferred an appeal  to	 theHigh  Court.  Both the reference under section 3O7  and	 theappeal	were heard together by the High Court, which  agreedwith the Sessions Judge that the appellant had received	 thethree  amounts	as  share  money  and  in  his	capacity  asSecretary,  and accordingly confirmed his  conviction  undersection	 409 and the sentence passed by the Sessions  Judge.Disagreeing  with the verdict of the jury, it also held	 himguilty under section 477-A and sentenced him to1039two  years'  rigorous imprisonment.  The present  appeal  byspecial leave is directed against this judgment.Mr.  Tawakley  firstly	contended that the  finding  of	 thecourts	below that the amounts paid by Sri  Chaturvedi,	 Dr.Bhanti and Dr. Seth were paid as share money was  erroneous,and in support of this contention relied on a letter writtenby  one of them, Dr. Seth, to the appellant on 3rd May	1951(Ex.   D-5) in which it was stated that the amount was	paidon  the	 express understanding that if the  Society  ran,  ashare would be allotted to him and otherwise the money wouldbe returned.  This letter was written long after proceedingshad  been taken by the Registrar, and the courts  below	 didnot  attach  much importance to it. On the other  hand,	 Dr.Seth  himself  gave  evidence  in  these  proceedings  whichdeprives Exhibit D-5 of very much of its value.	 Exhibit  P-10  is the receipt granted to Sri Chaturvedi.  It  expresslyrecites	 that Rs. 500 was received as share money  for	fiveshares in the Society.	Notices were also issued to both SriChaturvedi and Dr. Bhanti to attend the general body meetingof the Society to be held on 1st March 1949 for electing thePresident  and	members	 of the Managing  Committee  of	 theSociety,  and Dr. Seth and Dr Bhanti actually  attended	 it.Sri Chaturvedi and Dr. Bhanti have also given evidence	thatthey  paid  the amounts only as share capital.	 The  courtsbelow accepted the above evidence, and held that the  moneyswere  not paid to the appellant in his individual  capacity.There are no grounds for disturbing that finding in  specialappeal.It is now necessary to deal with the several contentions  oflaw  urged by Mr. Tawakley in support of this  appeal.	 Hisfirst contention was that when the Sessions Judge  disagreedwith  the  verdict of the jury and with the opinion  of	 theassessors,  he	should have referred the  whole	 case  undersection	 307  for  the decision of the High  Court  and	 notmerely	that  part of it which related to the  charge  undersection	 477-A, and that his failure to do so  vitiated	 theconviction.   He argued that when the same facts  constitutetwo1040distinct  offences, one of which is triable with the aid  ofjurors	and  the other with assessors, and  the	 accused  ischarged	 with  both, the reference under  section  307	mustrelate	to  both the charges, if  inconsistent	findings  bydifferent courts with reference to the same matter is to  beavoided.   What would happen, he asked, if, in	the  presentcase,  the  appellant  did not file an	appeal	against	 hisconviction under section 409, but the High Court came to theconclusion  in	the  reference under section  307  that	 SriChaturvedi, Dr. Bhanti and Dr. Seth did not pay the  amountsto  the	 appellant as share money, and that no	offence	 hadbeen  committed by him under section 477-A?  The  convictionof  the appellant under section 409 based on the finding  ofthe  Sessions  Judge that those amounts were paid  as  sharemoney would stand, notwithstanding that it would be  againstthe  decision  of  the High Court.  This  anomaly  could  beavoided,  it is argued, by holding that the reference  undersection 307 must be of the whole case.Reliance  is  placed in support of this	 contention  on	 theobservations in Emperor v. Haria Dhobi(1).  We are unable toagree with this contention.  If the procedure adopted by theSessions  Judge is to be held to be illegal, it can only  beon  the	 ground that he contravened some  provision  of	 lawwhich  requires	 him  to refer the whole case  to  the	HighCourt.	 It  is	 conceded that the  only  provision  of	 lawdealing	 with this matter is section 307.  But that  sectionapplies	 in  terms only to trials with the aid	of  a  jury.There  is therefore no power in the Sessions Court to  refercases  tried with the aid of assessors for decision  of	 theHigh  Court under that section.	 That was the view taken  inPachaimuthu  In re(2), where it was held that the  AssistantSessions  Judge had no jurisdiction to refer  under  section307 the whole case to the High Court, that he should himselfdispose	 of the charges which were triable with the  aid  ofassessors,  and	 that  the reference  in  respect  of  thosecharges	 was bad.  This decision was followed in Emperor  v.Lachman(1)  A.I.R. 1937 Patna 66(2)  [1932] I.L R. 55 Mad 715.1041Gangota(1).   The same view has also been taken by the	HighCourt  of  Bombay  in a number of  cases:  Vide	 Emperor  v.Kalidas(2),  Emperor  v.  Vyankat  Sing(3)  and	 Emperor  v.Chanbasappa(4).	  We  are accordingly of  opinion  that	 theSessions Judge had contravened no provision of law, and	 hadcommitted  no illegality in deciding the case, in so far  asit related to the charge under section 409, himself In	thiscase there is the further fact that the appellant  preferredan  appeal against his conviction under section 409  by	 theSessions  Judge,  and that appeal was heard along  with	 thereference  under section 307 in respect of the charge  undersection	 477-A, and that they were both of them disposed  ofby the same judgment.It was next contended that the true status of the  appellantwas  that  of  a servant and not of an agent,  and  that  heshould	have  been charged not under section 409  but  undersection	 408.	The  substance of  the	charge	against	 theappellant  is that as the promoter of a Society he  lawfullyreceived the amounts paid by Sri Chaturvedi, Dr. Bhanti	 andDr.  Seth, but that after its incorporation, when he  failedon 22-4-1949 to hand over those amounts to the Treasurer andto include their names as shareholders in the minutes  book,he  committed offences under sections 409 and  477-A.	Now,what  is  the status of the appellant as  Secretary  of	 theSociety in which capacity he committed the offences, servantor agent?  The distinction between the two is thus stated inHalsbury's Laws of England, Volume 22, page 113, para 192-"A, servant acts under the direct control and supervision ofthe master, and is bound to conform to all reasonable ordersgiven him in the course of his work........ An agent  thoughbound  to  exercise  his authority in  accordance  with	 alllawful	instructions which may be given to him from time  totime by his principal, is not subject in its exercise to thedirect control or supervision of the principal".Having	regard to the nature of the duties of the  appellantas the Secretary of the Society, we are clearly(1)  A.I.R. 1934 Patna 424.(3)  [1907] 9 Bom.  L.R. 1057.(2)  [1898] 8 Bom.  L.R. 599.(4)  A.I.R. 1932 Bom. 61.1042of  opinion that his status was that of an agent and  not  aservant.  Moreover, whether the appellant should be  chargedunder section 408 or section 409 is of no importance in	 thepresent	 case, as the sentence imposed on him under  section409,  viz.,  four  years'  rigorous  imprisonment  could  bemaintained  even  under section 408.  It was argued  by	 theappellant that an offence under section 408 was triable withthe  aid  of  a jury, whereas that  under  section  409	 wastriable	 with  the aid of assessors, and that  he  had	beenprejudiced  in	that be bad lost the benefit of a  trial  byjury.  But this objection was not taken in the trial  court,and  is	 not  now open.	 Vide section 536  of  the  Code  ofCriminal Procedure.It  is	next contended that there has been  a  violation  ofsection	 234 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in  that	 theappellant had been charged with three offences under section409  and one under section 477-A.  But the case is  governedby  section 235, as the several offences under sections	 409and  477-A arise out of the same acts and form part  of	 thesame  transaction.  Moreover, the appellant. has  failed  toshow  any  prejudice  as  required  by	section	 537.	Thisobjection must accordingly be overruled.It  was	 finally  contended that there had  been  no  properexamination  of	 the appellant under section 342,  and	thattherefore  the conviction was illegal.	This  objection	 wasnot  raised in the Courts below, and is sought to be  raisedin  this  Court by a supplemental proceeding.	We  find  nosubstance in this objection.In the result, this appeal fails and is dismissed.1043