PETITIONER:DAMODHAR TUKARAM MANGALMURTIAND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:02/02/1959BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.IMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1959 AIR  639		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 130ACT:       Lease-Construction-Enhancement of rent-" Fair and  equitable       enhancement  as the lessor shall determine "-Lease,  whether       void  for  uncertainty-Court's Power to determine  fair	and       equitable rent.HEADNOTE:In 1909, for the purpose of residential accommodation, plotsof  land  were	given  on lease by  the	 Government  to	 theappellants and others for which a premium of Rs. 350 and  anannual	rent  of  Rs. 3-8-0 for each plot had  to  be  paid.Clause III of the deed of lease in each case provided: " Andthe lessor does further covenant that lie will at the end ofthe  term Of 30 years hereby granted and so on from time  totime  thereafter at the end of each successive further	termof  years as shall be granted at the request of	 the  lesseeexecute	 to him a renewed lease of the land  hereby  demisedfor the term Of 30 years: Provided that the rent of the landhereby	demised shall be subject to such fair and  equitableenhancement  as the lessor shall determine on the  grant  ofevery -renewal: Provided also that every such renewed  leaseof the land shall contain such of the covenants,  provisionsand  conditions	 in  these presents contained  as  shall  beapplicable  and shall always contain a covenant for  furtherrenewal of the lease."181By  the year 1939 the first 30 years' period of some of	 theleases came to an end, and the Government sought to  enhancethe  annual rent from Rs. 3-8-0 to Rs. 21-14-0 per plot	 andalso to insert some new terms in the renewed deeds of lease.The  appellants brought a suit inter alia for a	 declarationthat  the enhancement proposed was not, fair  and  equitablewithin the meaning of Clause III of the deed of lease,	thatthe  fair  and equitable rent should be Rs. 7 per  plot	 andthat  if the court was of the opinion that Rs. 7 was  not  afair  and equitable rent then it should fix such sum  as  itconsidered fair and equitable.	The respondent pleaded	thatsuch  a suit was incompetent.  The question was whether	 thecivil	court  had  jurisdiction  to  enquire  whether	 theenhancement  of the rent determined by the lessor  was	fairand equitable within the meaning of cl.	 III of the deed  oflease, and whether, in any case, the lease was void for	 un-certainty.Held, (per jafer Imam and S. K. Das, jj.), that the lease isnot  void  for uncertainty; that the expression "  fair	 andequitable  "  in  the  clause in  question  means  fair	 andequitable  in  fact, and not what  the	lessor	subjectivelyconsidered  to be fair and equitable; and, that reading	 theclause	as a whole and giving effect to all the	 words	usedtherein, the meaning is that the lessor must first determinewhat it considers to be fair and equitable enhancement, but,if in fact it is not so, it is open to the lessee to ask thecourt  to determine what is fair and equitable	enhancement.Accordingly, the suit was maintainable.The  rule  laid	 down in Gourlay v. The	 Duke  of  Somerset,(18I5) 19 Ves. 429; 23 E.R. 576, held applicable.The New Beerbhom Coal Company Limited V. Boloram Mahata	 andothers,	 (1880) L.R. 7 I.A. 107 and Secretary of  State	 forIndia in Council v. Volkart Brothers, (1926) I.L.R. 50	Mad.595, relied on.Collier	 v.  Mason,  (1858) 25 Beav. 200; 53  E.R.  613	 andTekchand Kapurchand v. Mt.  Birzabai, A.I.R. 1942, Nag. 119,distinguished.Per  Kapur, J.-The correct interpretation to be put  on	 cl.III  of the deed of lease is that the lessor was  given	 theauthority  to  determine the enhancement of  rent  but	suchenhancement  was to be fair and equitable and what would  befair  and  equitable in any particular case was also  to  bedetermined  by	the  lessor.  The  rule	 applicable  to	 thepresent	 case is that relating to valuation or	fixation  ofprices	that  where the valuation is fixed by a	 valuer	 thecourt  will  hold it conclusive in the absence of  fraud  ormistake or misconduct and the court will not enter into	 thepropriety  of  the  valuation made  or	substitute  its	 ownvaluation in place of that determined by the valuer  becausethat will not be an execution of the contract of the partiesbut making a contract for them.Case law discussed.182JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE  JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos.  181	 and181-A of 1955.Appeals	 from  the judgment and decree dated  September	 30,1952, of the former Nagpur High Court in Second Appeals Nos.699 and 700 of 1946, arising out of the judgment and  decreedated  February 21, 1946, of the court of  First  AdditionalDistrict Judge, Nagpur, in Civil Appeals Nos. 22-A and	23-Aof  1946, against the judgment and decree dated	 January  2,1945,  of the Court of Second Subordinate Judge, Nagpur,  inCivil Suit No. 143-A of 1944.H.  J. Umrigar, Ratnaparkhi A. O and Shankar Anand     Zinj-arde,for the appellants.W.   S. Barlingay and B. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1959.  February 2. The Judgment of Jafer Imam and S. K. Das,JJ.,  was delivered by S. K. Das, J. Kapur, J., delivered  aseparate judgment.S.   K. DAS, J.-These two appeals arise out of a  litigationwhich  has had a chequered career in the courts below.	 Theshort  facts are these.	 The suit out of which	the  appealsarise was instituted on January 13, 1941, but the plaint wasamended	 on  May  4, 1942.  The amended plaint	was  to	 theeffect	that  in or about the year 1905 the  defendant,	 thethen  Provincial  Government of the  Central  Provinces	 andBerar,	Nagpur, " opened up " an area known as the  CraddockTown   Area  which  was	 originally  called  the   SitabuldiExtension  Area	 or Dhantoli Area.  Due to the	scarcity  ofresidential  accommodation in the city of Nagpur,  the	thenProvincial  Government along with some prominent members  ofthe  Nagpur Municipal Committee devised a scheme  to  extendresidential accommodation by acquiring agricultural land andmaking	it  available for residential purposes.	  With	thatobject	in  view,  the area in	question  was  acquired	 andbuilding  sites of the average size of about 10,000 sq.	 ft.each were carved out.  These were leased out on a premium ofRs. 350 and an annual rent of Rs. 3-8-0 each.  The indentureof  lease in each case contained a clause to  the  followingeffect:-183" III.	And the lessor does further covenant that he will atthe  end  of the term of 30 years hereby granted and  so  onfrom  time to time thereafter at the end of each  successivefurther term of years as shall be granted at the request  ofthe lessee execute to him a renewed lease of the land herebydemised for the term of 30 years; Provided that the rent  ofthe  land hereby demised shall be subject to such  fair	 andequitable  enhancement as the lessor shall determine on	 thegrant  of  every  renewal: Provided  also  that	 every	suchrenewed	 lease	of  the	 land  shall  contain  such  of	 thecovenants,  provisions	and  conditions	 in  these  presentscontained as shall be applicable and shall always contain  acovenant for further renewal of the lease."One  of	 the leases was executed on May 24, 1909,  and	someother  leases  near about that year.  By the year  1939	 thefirst 30 years' period of some of the leases came to an end.The original plaintiffs, who were two in number and who suedin  their individual right as also representing the  membersof  an association known as the Craddock  Town	Plot-holdersAssociation  alleged that on the expiry of the terms of	 theleases in question, during which period some of the  lesseeshad  built  houses  on	the  leasehold	property,  the	thenProvincial Government proposed an enhancement of Rs. 21-14-0from Rs. 3-8-0 as annual rent and also the insertion of somenew terms in the renewed deeds of lease.  The plaintiffs, onthe  contrary,	said that Rs. 7 per plot was  the  fair	 andequitable  enhancement.	  Various  representations  to	 therelevant   authorities	 having	  proved   unavailing,	 theplaintiffs instituted the suit in which they prayed (a) thatthe  enhancement of rent from Rs. 3-8-0 to Rs.	21-14-0	 perplot  was not fair and equitable within the meaning  of	 el.III  of	 the deed of lease; (b) that the offer of Rs.  7  asannual rent made by the association was fair and reasonable;(c)  that  the defendant do insert in the renewed  deeds  oflease  only  such  conditions as were to  be  found  in	 theoriginal deed and not to add to them to the detriment of thelessees' interest; and (d)    that  in	the  event  of	thisCourt not agreeing that184Rs. 7 was a fair and, reasonable rent, a fair and  equitablerent  should be fixed by it.  The suit was contested by	 thedefendant on several grounds, with most of Which we are	 notnow concerned.The learned Subordinate Judge of Nagpur, who dealt with	 thesuit  in  the first instance, took  up	certain	 preliminaryissues for decision and by a judgment dated April 13,  1942,he  disposed  of those preliminary issues.  One	 such  issuematerial  for  our purpose was in these terms: ,In  case  ofdispute as to what is fair and equitable rent, has the civilcourt  no  right to, determine what is fair rent?"  On	thispreliminary  issue, he found " that under the terms  of	 cl.III of the indenture of lease, the defendant was entitled tofix  a	fair  and equitable rent; but the  civil  court	 hasjurisdiction  to  enquire  whether the	rent  fixed  by	 thedefendant  is fair and equitable within the meaning  of	 cl.III ". We need not refer to the other preliminary issues  onwhich  the  learned  Subordinate Judge	gave  his  decision,because those issues no longer survive.	 On the disposal  ofthe aforesaid preliminary issue, the plaint was amended	 andsome more lessees were added, the 30 years' period of  whoseleases	had also expired ; therefore the position  was	thatthe  plaintiffs were those lessees, the 30 years' period  ofwhose  leases  had expired and as respects  the	 renewal  ofwhose  leases the defendant had proposed an  enhancement  ofRs.  21-14-0.  The defendant claimed that it had  been	veryreasonable  in	fixing	the enhanced  rent  and	 it  furtherclaimed	 the right of withdrawing the offer of	Rs.  21-14-0and  of making a fresh demand at a much higher rent  if	 thelessees	 did not agree to the terms originally	proposed  bythe defendant.	The defendant further denied that the  offerof  Rs.	 7, that is, twice the original rent,  made  by	 thelessees was a reasonable and fair enhancement.After  the  disposal of the preliminary issues	the  learnedSubordinate Judge proceeded to try the suit on merits and onJanuary	 2,  1945, he found on issue no. 4 that Rs.  14	 peryear would be the fair and equitable enhanced rent for	eachplot of about 10,000 sq. ft. and he fixed that rent for	 thenext term of 30 years to185which  the lessees were entitled under cl.  III; he  furtherdirected  the  grant of a rebate of 25 per  cent.  to  thoselessees who agreed to a renewal for a term ending in 1948.From  the  decision  of the learned  Subordinate  Judge	 twoappeals,  one  by  the	plaintiffs, and	 the  other  by	 thedefendant,  were taken to the District Judge and  they	wereheard by the Additional District Judge of Nagpur, who by hisJudgment  dated February 21, 1946, affirmed the decision  ofthe  learned  Subordinate Judge that under cl.	III  of	 theindenture  of lease it was open to the Subordinate Judge  todetermine what was the fair and equitable rent.	 The learnedAdditional District Judge, however, reversed the finding  ofthe learned Subordinate Judge as to the quantum of the	fairand  equitable	rent.  He came to the  conclusion  that	 theenhancement of rent should not exceed Rs. 7, as any increaseover  that  amount  would not be a fair	 and  equitable	 onewithin the meaning of cl. III of the indenture of lease.From the decision of the learned Additional District  Judge,two appeals were taken to the then High Court of  Judicatureat  Nagpur  by the defendant Government.  The  appeals	werefirst  placed before a single Judge who directed  that	theyshould be heard by a Division Bench.  The appeals were	thenheard by B. P. Sinha, C. J. (as he then was) and  Mudholkar,J. The learned Chief Justice came to the conclusion that thesuit must fail on the ground that the authority of the courthad  been invoked in a matter which really lay	in  contractand  the  civil court had no jurisdiction to  determine	 thefair and equitable rent.  Mudholkar, J., came to a  contraryconclusion  and held that the suit was maintainable and	 thecourts	below could determine the fair and  equitable  rent.On  the	 question of what should be the fair  and  equitablerent,  the  learned  Chief Justice gave	 no  finding  exceptsaying that " the decision of the lower appellate, court  onthe  question of assessment of fair and equitable  rent	 wasnot  satisfactory, because it had gone more by the  rule  ofthe thumb than upon the evidence adduced in the24186case or upon any other sound basis." Mudholkar, J., however,said  that he saw no adequate ground for differing from	 theview  taken by the lower appellate court with regard to	 thequantum	 of fair and equitable rent.  On this difference  ofopinion between the learned Chief Justice and Mudholkar, J.,the case was referred to a third Judge, namely, Hemeon,	 J.,who agreed with the view of the learned Chief Justice  that,on  a  proper construction of cl.  III of the  indenture  oflease, the civil court had no jurisdiction to determine	 thefair and equitable rent and the parties had consciously	 anddeliberately stipulated to abide by the lessor's fixation ofa  fair and equitable enhancement of rent; and in that	viewof the matter, he expressed no opinion as to what should  bethe fair and equitable rent.In  accordance with the opinion of the majority	 of  Judges,the appeals in the High Court were allowed and the suit	 wasdismissed   with  costs.   The	plaintiffs,  who   are	 theappellants  here,  then asked for a certificate	 of  fitnessunder Art. 133(1)(c) of the Constitution of India.  The HighCourt  granted the necessary certificate by an	order  datedOctober 23, 1953, and the present appeals have been filed inpursuance  of that certificate.	 The area in question  beingnow within the State of Bombay, the State of Bombay has beensubstituted as the respondent before us.The  principal question before us is one of construction  ofel.   III  of  the indenture of lease.	 On  behalf  of	 theappellants it has been argued that the construction put uponthe  clause by the majority of Judges in the High  Court  isnot  correct inasmuch as it gives no effect to the  words  "fair  and  equitable enhancement "  occurring  therein.	  Onbehalf	of  the respondent, it has been submitted  that	 theexpression " subject to such fair and equitable	 enhancementas  the lessor shall determine " is tantamount to  saying  "subject to such enhancement as the lessor shall determine tobe  fair and equitable " ; in other words, the	argument  oflearned	 counsel for the respondent is that the parties	 haddeliberately  chosen to abide by whatever was determined  tobe fair and equitable enhancement by187the  lessor.   Mudholkar, J., had proceeded on	the  footingthat  the  primary  intention of the parties  was  that	 theenhancement  must be fair and equitable and  the  adjectivalclause ,as the lessor shall determine " following the word Ienhancement'  being subordinate to the primary intention  ofthe  parties  could  be ignored.  Learned  counsel  for	 therespondent has very strongly submitted that this view is notcorrect.We think that the clause should be read as a whole and everyeffort	should be made to give effect to all the words	usedtherein.   The relevant portion of the clause states-"	suchfair and equitable enhancement as the lessor shall determine".   If	 the  construction  is	that  whatever	the   lessordetermines as fair and equitable enhancement must be treatedas  binding  on	 the  lessee,  then  the  words	 'fair	 andequitable'  are not given the meaning and sense	 which	theyhave  according to the ordinary acceptation of those  words.I  Fair' and I equitable' mean fair and equitable  in  fact,and  not what the lessor subjectively considered to be	fairand equitable.	The words I fair' and 'equitable' both	meanI just or unbiased' (see the Concise Oxford Dictionary,	 4thEdn., p. 426 and p. 402).  If the intention was to leave theenhancement  to the subjective determination of the  lessor,the  clause would have more aptly said-'such enhancement  asthe  lessor shall determine'.  We consider that the words  Ifair  and  equitable' must be given their  due	meaning	 andproper	effect.	 The question then asked is-what meaning  isto  be	given to the words 'such...... as the  lessor  shalldetermine'.   It is indeed true that these words  constitutean adjectival clause to the expression ' fair and  equitableenhancement',  but  we	consider that  the  meaning  of	 theadjectival  clause  is merely this: the	 lessor	 must  firstdetermine  what	 it  considers	to  be	fair  and  equitableenhancement; but if in fact it is not so, it is open to	 thelessee	to  ask	 the Court to determine	 what  is  fair	 andequitable  enhancement.	  We do not think that on  a  properconstruction  of the clause, the intention was to  oust	 thejurisdiction of the Court and make the determination of	 theenhancement by the -lessor final and binding on the  lessee.We think that188the conclusion at which Mudholkar, J., arrived on this pointwas  correct,  though not exactly for the reasons  given  byhim.If  the	 construction  stated  above  is  the  correct	con-struction,  then no further difficulty is presented  by	 cl.111.   The  learned  Judges of the  High  Court	 unanimouslyexpressed  the	view  that  the	 lease	'Was  not  void	 foruncertainty, and in that view we concur.  There is authorityin support of the view that a covenant to settle land I at aproper	rate' or I upon such terms and conditions as  shouldbe  judged reasonable' is not void for uncertainty (see	 TheNew  Beerbhoom	Coal Company Limited v. Boloram	 Mahata	 andothers	(1) and Secretary of State, for India in Council  v.Volkart	 Brothers  (2)).   In the former  case,	 Sir  BarnesPeacock who delivered the judgment of their Lordships said :" The High Court affirmed the decision, but not for  reasonswhich their Lordships consider to be correct.  They affirmedit upon the ground that it was impossible to determine	whatwas a reasonable rate.	Their Lordships cannot think that inthe  present  case the Court, upon a proper  inquiry,  wouldhave  been  unable to determine it.  There might  have	beenconsiderable difficulty in fixing the rate; but difficultiesoften  occur in determining what is a reasonable price or  areasonable rate, or in fixing the amount of damages which  aman has sustained under particular circumstances.  These aredifficulties which the Court is bound to overcome."Our  attention has been drawn to some English  decisions  inwhich the point arose if a contract which appoints a way  ofdetermining  the price can be specifically enforced.   Thereare  two  lines	 of decisions.	In Milnes V.  Grey  (3)	 thecontract  provided  that the price shall be  valued  by	 twodifferent  persons to be nominated and if they	happened  todisagree then those two persons shall choose a third  personwhose  determination  shall  be	 final.	  The  question	 waswhether such a contract could be specifically performed	 andthe(1)  (1880) L.R. 7 I.A. 107.(2)  (1926) I.L.R. 50 Mad. 595.(3)  (18O7) 14 Ves. 400; 33 E.R. 574.189answer	given by the Master of the Rolls can be best put  inhis own words:"  The	more  I have considered this case,  the	 more  I  amsatisfied,  that,  independently of  all  other	 objections,there  is no such agreement between the parties, as  can  becarried into execution.	 The only agreement, into which	 theDefendant  entered,  was  to purchase at  a  price,'  to  beascertained in a specified mode.  No price having ever	beenfixed  in  that mode, the parties have not agreed  upon	 anyprice.	 Where then is the complete and concluded  contract,which this Court is called upon to execute ? "In Taylor v. Brewer (1) a claim to compensation was  foundedon  the resolution of a committee which provided that"	suchremuneration  be  made as should be deemed right ".  It	 washeld that the engagement was merely an engagement of  honourand  no claim could be made on it.  An example of the  otherline  of  decisions is furnished by Gourlay v. The  Duke  ofSomerset (2).  In that case the agreement provided for " allsuch   usual  and  proper  conditions,	 reservations,	 andagreements, as shall be judged reasonable and proper by JohnGale, land surveyor, and in case of his death, by some otherproper	and competent person to be mutually agreed  upon  bythe  said  parties ". The plaintiff came to  court  and	 thequestion arose whether the reference to settle the lease  tobe  made by the defendant to the plaintiff should be to	 theMaster	or  to Mr. Gale, the defendant contending  that	 thecourt  decreeing  specific performance will take  the  wholesubject to itself and determine by its own officer, not by aparticular individual, what are usual and proper  covenants.Sir William Grant, Master of the Rolls, said:-" When the agreement is, that the price of the estate  shallbe fixed by arbitrators, and they do not fix it, there is nocontract  as  the price is of the essence of a	contract  ofsale,  and the Court cannot make a contract, where there  isnone;  but,  where  the	 Court	has  determined,  that	 theagreement is binding and(1)  (1813) 1 M. & S. 290; 105 E.R. 108.(2)  (1815) 19 Ves. 429; 34 E.R. 576.190concluded  and	such as ought to be executed,  it  does	 notrequire	 foreign  aid to carry the details  into  execution.Gale's	 agency	 is  not  of  the  essence  of	 this	con-tract......... If the parties had gone to Gale, and got	 himto  settle  a  lease, and one of them had  objected  to	 thecovenants  as improper, and the Bill had been filed  by	 theother,	the Court would have inspected the lease; and if  itwere found unreasonable, would not have decreed an executionof the agreement."We consider that the present case comes within the rule laiddown  in  Gourlay  v. The Duke	of  Somerset  (1).   Learnedcounsel for the respondent placed strong reliance on Collierv.  Mason (2 ). That was a case in which the  defendant	 hadagreed	to purchase a property at a valuation to be made  byAB; the Court, though it considered AB's valuation very highand perhaps exorbitant,'decreed specific performance,  thereappearing  neither fraud, mistake or miscarriage.  The	casewas  decided on the footing that the contract provided	thatthe  property shall be purchased at such a price or  sum  asshould	be fixed by reference to AB, and it was pointed	 outthat   there  being  no	 evidence  of  fraud,	mistake	  ormiscarriage the parties were bound by the contract they	 hadmade.	There  was  no question in that case  of  the  courtstepping  in, under the terms of the contract, to  determinewhat  was  fair	 and reasonable.  Learned  counsel  for	 therespondent  also  relied  on  Tekchand	Kapurchand  v.	 Mt.Birzabai  (3).	The principle laid down therein was  that  acontract  binds the parties to it and their  representativesand the court's power to interfere with contracts is limitedto  such  cases	 as fraud, undue influence  or	mistake	 andrelief against penalty or forfeiture.  Indeed, we agree thatif  the contract in the present case was that  whatever	 thelessor	determined as the enhanced rent would be binding  onthe  parties, then the court has no power to interfere	withthat  contract	unless	it  is	vitiated  by  fraud,   undueinfluence,   mistake,	etc.   If,   however,	the properconstruction of el.  III of the contract is -what(1)  (1815) 19 Ves. 429; 34 E. R. 576.(2)  (1858) 25 Beav. 200; 53 E.R. 613.(3)  A.I.R. 1942 Nag. 119.191we  have  held it to be, then the contract  itself  providesthat  the enhanced rent though determined by the  lessor  inthe  first instance, must be fair and equitable.  On such  aconstruction  the  determination of the enhancement  by	 thelessor would not be final and it would be open to the  courtto determine what is fair and equitable enhancement.We say this with respect, but the Patna decisions (Secretaryof State for India in Council v. Nistarini Annie Mitter	 (1)and  Secretary	of  State  v.  Babu  Rajendra  Prasad  (2)),referred to by the learned Chief Justice in his judgment arenot  in	 point.	  Those decisions were	not  concerned	withinterpreting  a clause in the agreement like the one  beforeus and it was rightly held that in the absence of a contractbetween	 the parties, the court had no power to impose	uponthe parties a bargain not of their own making.For  the reasons given above, we hold that the	decision  ofthe  majority of the learned Judges of the High	 Court	withregard to the interpretation of cl.  III of the indenture oflease  is not correct and these appeals must go back  for  afresh  hearing by the High Court in accordance with law	 fordetermination  of  what	 should be the	fair  and  equitableenhancement.   On that point there was no concluded  findingby the majority of the learned Judges of the High Court, butlearned	 counsel  for  the  appellants	submitted  that	 thefinding	 of  the learned Additional District  Judge  on	 thequantum	 of fair and equitable enhancement was a finding  offact and therefore binding in second appeal.  At this  stagewe  express  no	 opinion on such a  submission,	 nor  do  weexpress any opinion whether the courts below or any of	themhave  gone wrong in principle in determining what should  bethe fair and equitable enhancement and whether on merits  itshould	be Rs. 7 or Rs. 14 or Rs. 21-14-0, or even a  highersum.  All these points must be considered afresh by the HighCourt.There  is a further point which must also be dealt  with  inthe  High Court.  The learned Subordinate Judge	 decided  onissue  no. 7 with regard to the conditions for a renewal  ofthe lease that the Government(8) (1927) I.L.R. 6 Pat. 446.(9) A.I.R. 1937 Pat. 391.	  192were  not  entitled to make any alterations in	the  clausesrelating  to re-entry and notice of demand as  contained  incl.  II of the original lease.	The learned Addl.   DistrictJudge said:"  As  regards the new form of lease, it is clear  that	 theclause regarding building would be deleted if it is found tobe superfluous or redundant.  While that in respect of rightof  lessor to enter on the land without a demand  of  groundrent (in case of failure to pay it on the appointed date) itis not necessary to interfere as it would amount to making acontract for the parties.  It is better to leave the  matterto the parties and their legal advisers."Whether the view of the learned Subordinate Judge or of	 theDistrict  Judge is correct or not was not considered by	 theHigh Court and as the appeals are going back on remand	thispoint should also be dealt with by the High Court.Accordingly, we allow the appeals and set aside the judgmentand decree of the High Court dated September 30, 1952.	 Theappeals	 must go back for a fresh hearing by the High  Courtin accordance with law and in the light of the	observationsmade  above.   In the peculiar circumstances of	 this  case,there  will  be	 no order for costs of the  hearing  of	 theappeals	 in  this Court.  Costs incurred in the	 two  courtsbelow and costs incurred in the High Court, both before	 andafter  remand,	will be dealt with by the  High	 Court	whenfinally disposing of the appeals.KAPUR,	J.-I  regret I am unable to agree  in  the  proposedjudgment  that it is open to the Court in the  circumstancesof this case to go into the question of the valuation and todetermine  as  to  what, in its opinion would  be  fair	 andequitable  enhancement	in rent and to	interfere  with	 theenhancement  as determined by the lessor under the terms  ofthe  indenture	of  lease executed on  May  24,	 1909.	 Theoriginal  lease was for a term of 30 years with a  provisionfor  renewal for another 30 years with the proviso that	 therent  of  the land demised was " subject to  such  fair	 andequitable enhancement as the lessor shall determine193The facts are set out in the judgment of my learned brother,S.  K.	Das,  J., and it is not necessary  to  repeat  them.Plots  of land measuring about 10,000 sq. ft. were given  onlease  by the Government to the appellants and	others,	 forwhich the premium to be paid was Rs. 350 and the rent Rs. 3-8-0  per  annum or Re. 1 per cent. of  the  premium.   Leasedeeds  were executed in 1909 under clause III of  which	 thelessor determined the enhanced rent at Rs. 21-14-0 and	thusraised	it  from  Rs. 3-8-0 per plot to	 Rs.  21-14-0.	 Theappellants   brought  a	 suit  for  declaration	  that	 theenhancement   proposed	was  excessive	and  the  fair	 andequitable rent should be Rs. 7 per plot and if the Court wasof the opinion that Rs. 7 was not a fair and equitable	rentthen  it  should  fix such sum as  it  considered  fair	 andequitable.   The  respondent pleaded that such	a  suit	 wasincompetent.   The  question  for decision is  what  is	 theeffect of using the adjectival words " fair and equitable ".For  the appellants it was argued that because in the  leasedeed the enhancement contemplated was qualified by the words" fair and equitable " the determination became clothed witha qualification which made it subject to judicial review anddetermination  because it was for the Court to	say  whetherthe   determined  enhancement  conformed  to  the   standardprescribed  in the disputed clause or not.   The  respondentcontended  on  the other hand that the	rule  applicable  todeterminations	by  valuers  is that it	 is  conclusive	 andcannot	be  overhauled	except	upon  proof  of	 fraud	 andimposition  of	gross  misconduct.  Thus  according  to	 thesubmission of the appellant the clause in dispute means suchenhancement   as  the  lessor  shall  determine	 and   whichdetermination  shall, in the opinion of the Court,  be	fairand equitable and according to the respondent it means	thatthe  amount of enhancement shall be fair and  equitable	 butwhat  is  fair	and equitable shall  be	 determined  by	 thelessor, such determination being conclusive.  The appellantsdo  not contend that the lessor is not a valuer and that  ifthe  qualifying	 words " fair and equitable " had  not	beenused then25194the  enhancement determined would not be conclusive but	 thecontention is that by using these words the quality and	 thequantity   of  enhancement  is	no  longer    in  the	soledetermination of the lessor but the final determination mustbe of the Court because otherwise any fanciful amount  wouldhave  to  be  accepted as fair and equitable  and  that	 theparties	  intended  that  the  lessor  was  not	 the   finaldeterminer  of the quality and quantity of  enhancement	 andhis  determination  was	 not conclusive but  the  lessee  ifdissatisfied could get the matter reviewed by the Court.In  my	view the correct interpretation to be  put  on	thisclause	of  the lease deed is what is contended for  by	 therespondent.  The lessor was given the authority to determinethe  enhancement  but such enhancement was to  be  fair	 andequitable  and	what  would be fair  and  equitable  in	 anyparticular  case  was also to be determined by	the  lessor.The lease deed entered into between the parties is dated May24,  1909.   In	 the  first  clause  are  given	 the   usualobligations of the lessee as to payment of rent, the purposeof  the building to be constructed, the period in  which  itwas to be completed, the design of the building and  keepingit  in	proper	condition.   In the  second  clause  of	 theagreement the lessor covenanted peaceful possession  subjectto  the	 right of the lessor to recover rent as	 arrears  ofland  revenue and other remedies for non-observance  of	 theobligations  contained in the first clause with a  provisionfor  re-entry upon failure of certain conditions.  I In	 thethird  clause the lessor covenanted for grant of  lease	 forfurther	 periods  of 30 years at the request of	 the  lesseewith the following proviso :" Provided that the rent of the land hereby demised shall besubject to such fair and equitable enhancement as the lessorshall determine on the grant of every renewal ".This  is  the  disputed clause.	 Now it	 appears  that	thisfurther	 covenant was for the benefit of the lessee and	 thereservations  made are couched in such language	 which	leftthe  discretion	 in  regard to enhancement of  rent  to	 thelessor.	  What the enhancement was to be and what  would  befair and equitable was left to the195determination of the lessor.  It is not an unusual provisionin  a  lease  for a long term of years	with  provision	 forrenewal	 to leave the question of rent to be  determined  bythe  lessor or an outside valuer and it s would not,  in  myrespectful opinion, be a correct interpretation to say	thatthe enhancement by a valuer would be unchallengeable if	 theadjectival  words  " fair and equitable " are not  used	 butwould  be  subject  to court's review  if  these  words	 areemployed.   That  is going contrary to the  very  notion  ofvaluations  and	 their legal incidence.	 The extent  of	 thepower  of courts over valuations by valuers has been  statedin text books and in certain decided cases.  In Williston onContracts,  Vol.  3, s. 802, at p. 2252 the  law  is  statedthus:"  In  the absence of fraud or mistake, the price  fixed  byaGreed	valuers is conclusive upon the parties.	  Though  anexcessively  large or an unreasonably small  price  involvessome  element of penalty or forfeiture, the  possibility  ofthis  is  -not enough to overcome the express terms  of	 thecontract in the absence at least of fraud, gross mistake, orsuch arbitrary conduct as is outside what the parties  couldhave -reasonably contemplated ".And  it	 is  not  a far step to say that  in  all  cases  ofvaluation  the parties do contemplate a fair  and  equitableamount to be fixed or determined and not any price  fancifulor otherwise.In  Collier v. mason (1) the defendant agreed to purchase  aproperty  at a valuation to be made by a third	party.	 Thedefendant repudiated the value as exorbitant and refused  tocomplete his contract and the plaintiff-vendor instituted  asuit  for  specific performance.  The Court  held  that	 thevaluation  was	very  high and	perhaps	 exorbitant  but  itdecreed	 specific  performance	of  the	 contract  as  thereappeared  no fraud, mistake or miscarriage.  It was said  bythe  Master of the Rolls " It may have been  improvident  asbetween	 these parties to enter into a contract to  buy	 andsell property at a price to be fixed by another person,	 butthat cannot avoid the contract.(1)  (1858) 25 Beav. 200; 53 E. R. 613.196Here  the referee has fixed the price, which is said  to  beevidence of miscarriage, but this Court, upon the  principlelaid down by Lord Eldon, must act on that valuation,  unlessthere  be proof of some mistake, or some improper motive,  Ido  not	 say a fraudulent one; as if the valuer	 had  valuedsomething  not	included,  or  had valued  it  on  a  whollyerroneous  principle,  or had desired to injure one  of	 theparties	 to  the contract ; or even, in the absence  of	 anyproof of any of these things, if the price were so excessiveor  so small as only to be explainable by reference to	somesuch cause; in any one of these cases the Court would refuseto  act on the valuation ". It does not appear that in	thatcase  the words "fair and equitable " were used but that  isimplied	 in every reference for valuation to be made  by  anagreed	referee.  He cannot act in a fanciful or  a  corruptmanner	or with puerile motives nor can he make a  valuationwhich be (toes not consider to be fair and equitable.In cases of transfer of property the form of contract to buyand  sell  may	make  a provision  and	very  often  such  aprovision is made that the price payable shall be that whicha  certain  valuer  shall fix.	Such  a	 requirement  is  anexpress condition or a condition implied in fact  qualifyingthe  obligation	 of the buyer to pay the price	and  such  acontract  cannot  be performed unless  the  valuation  firsttakes  place.  Such a condition is a necessary condition  oran  inherent condition.	 Williston on Contracts, Vol. 3,  s.800 ; Firth v. Midland Railway Co. (1). In such contracts itmust  be assumed that the parties laid weight on the  parti-cular  individuality  of  the valuer.	Accordingly  if	 thevaluer dies or refuses to act the buyer cannot be  compelledto  pay the price.  A similar condition is common  in  long-term  leases  and in provisions for renewal  of	 leases	 andwhere the parties choose to abide by the determination of  avaluer	and that valuation is not acceptable to one  of	 theparties, Courts will not interfere, the only exception beingfraud, mistake or misconduct.In Vickers v. Vickers (2) which was a suit for specific(1) (1875) L.R. 20 Eq. 100, 112.(2) (1867) L.R. 4 Eq. 529.197performance  of a contract enforcing an option	of  purchasewhere  the  stock was to be valued in the usual way  by	 twovaluers	 and one of the valuers was not allowed to  proceed,it  was held that there was no contract between the  partieswhich  the  Court could specifically enforce.  Sir  W.	PageWood, V. C., said at p. 535:" If a nomination of that kind fails, or if the two  personsnamed do not make their award, this Court has said there  isno  constat  of the price; the contract is  not	 a  completecontract, and there is nothing on which it can act ".In  Weekes v. Gallard (1) where a contract was entered	intofor  the sale of certain property, the price to be fixed  bytwo valuers who afterwards valued the property at inadequateprice, it was held that in the abence of fraud or  collusionon  the	 part  of  the valuer, the  buyer  was	entitled  tospecific performance of the contract.  Lord Romilly said :-"  The	court has really no discretion in the  matter.	 Thediscretion of the court is bound, as Lord Ellenborough says,by  fixed  rules.   In one case of this	 kind  a  house	 andfurniture  were valued at three times their value,  and	 yetthere  was  a  decree for specific  performance.   The	onlydefence to such a suit would be fraud or collusion ".A valuer may, in one sense, be called an arbitrator but	 notin the proper legal sense of the term.	Per Lindley, L.	 J.,In  re	Carus  Wilson  & Greene	 (2).	But  there  is	thisdifference between arbitration and valuation that the objectof the former is to settle a dispute which has arisen and ofthe  latter to avoid a dispute arising.	 The  arbitrator  iscalled	in  to settle judicially any matter  in	 controversybetween	 the parties and the valuer by the exercise  of	 hisknowledge and skill has to make a valuation the object beingto  prevent  disputes  from  arising.	A  valuer  like	  anarbitrator  is	required to act fairly and  diligently.	  Hecannot	act  in	 a fanciful or a  perverse  manner  and	 hisdetermination  must  be	 fair  and  equitable  whether	 theauthority given to him uses these words or not.	 But once a(1) (1869) 21 L.T. 655.(2) (1886) 18 Q.B.D. 710.198valuation  is properly made the valuation is  conclusive  asbetween	 the parties and the Court in the absence of  fraud,mistake or collusion can- no more go into whether it is fairand  equitable	than a Court can sit in appeal	against	 theaward  of an arbitrator as to what would be fair  amount  ofdamages	 in  a particular case of breach of  contract.	 Seealso Emery v. Wase (1).The decision in Gourlay v. Somerset (Duke of) (2) was reliedupon by the appellants in support of their case.  That	doesnot,  in  my opinion, deal with the matter  now	 before	 us.There the suit was for specific performance of an  agreementto grant a lease.  One of the conditions of the contract wasthat the farm was to be let on conditions, reservations	 andagreements  "  as shall be judged reasonable and  proper  byJohn  Gale  . "	  The Court was of the	opinion	 that Gale'sagency	was not of the essence of the contract and  that  itcould not be contended that the contract was to end if	Galerefused to settle a lease.  The Court said :"  Suppose the reference is made to Gale ; is  his  decisionliable to exception ? If it is, the decision with regard  tothe  propriety of the lease will ultimately be that  of	 theCourt.	 If not, the Court may be carrying into execution  alease,	which  it  may	think  extremely  unreasonable	 andimproper.   If the parties had gone to Gale, and got him  tosettle	a  lease,  and	one of	them  had  objected  to	 thecovenants  as  improper and the Bill had been filed  by	 theother,	the Court would have inspected the lease; and if  itwere found unreasonable, would not have decreed an executionof the agreement ".That was a case relating to covenants other than fixation ofprice.	With regard to the valuation or fixation of price itwas  said  that if an agreement was that the  price  of	 theestate would be fixed by arbitrators and they did not fix itthere was no contract of sale as the contract as to the modeof  fixing the price was of the essence of the	contract  ofsale and the Court could not make a contract where there  isnone.  Similarly it may be said that where the valuation  isfixed by a valuer(1)  (1801) 5 Ves. 846, 847, 848 ; 31 E.R. 889.(2)  (1815) 19 Ves. 429; 34 E.R. 576.199the court will hold it conclusive in the absence of fraud ormistake	 or misconduct.	 The Court will not enter  into	 thepropriety  of  the  valuation made  or	substitute  its	 ownvaluation in place of that determined by the valuer  becausethat will not be an execution of the contract of the partiesbut making a contract for them.The Transfer of Property Act contains no provision by  whichthe  Court  is	empowered to fix rent  of  premises  demisedalthough by legislation in the case of agricultural holdingscertain	  tribunals   have  been  set  up   to	 make	suchdeterminations.	  The appellant relied on The New  BeerbhoomCoal  Company v. Boloram Mahata (1).  The  covenant  betweenthe parties was:--Within that aforesaid mouzah we will not give a pottah,	 letgive   settlement  to  anybody.	  If  you  take	  possessionaccording  to your requirement of extra land over and  abovethis pottah, and we shall settle any such lands with you  ata proper rate ".A  suit	 was brought by the lessees against  the  lessor  toobtain specific performance to execute a permanent lease  ofa large area of land claiming benefit of the covenant  abovegiven  and contended that the defendants were bound  to	 letthem the land whenever called upon to do so.  The  appellantcompany stated that they had negotiated with the lessor	 forlease  of  the adjoining land (not of land  which  they	 hadagreed to lease) upon the terms that they were to pay Rs. 1-8-0  for  waste land and Rs. 3 for cultivable land  and	 thesuit  was  for	the grant of  specific	performance  of	 theagreement  by compelling the lessor to grant them the  leaseat those rates and if the Court would not order the lease atthose  rates  then at such rates as the	 Court	shall  thinkreasonable.  The trial Court held that apart from 51  bighasmentioned in the covenant the lessor could not be  compelledto grant a lease for the remaining land of the mouzah.	 TheHigh Court affirmed this decision but on the ground that  itwas  impossible to determine what was the  reasonable  rate.Sir Barnes Peacock said:-(1)  (1880) L.R. 7 I.A. 107.200" Their Lordships cannot think that in the present case	 thecourt,	upon  a proper inquiry, would have  been  unable  todetermine   it	(proper	 rent).	  There	 might	 have	beenconsiderable   difficulty   in	fixing	the   rate   ;	 butdifficulties often occur in determining what is a reasonableprice  or  a  reasonable rate, or in fixing  the  amount  ofdamages	  which	 a  man	 has  sustained	  under	  particularcircumstances.	 These are difficulties which the  Court  isbound to overcome ".These  observations of the Privy Council are relied upon  bythe  appellants to support the argument that it is  open  tothe  Court to determine what the reasonable rate  would	 be.This  was not a case where any question of  valuation  arosenor  was  it a case where a valuation made by a	 valuer	 wassought to be reviewed as not being proper and apart from thefact  that the observations are mere obiter this case is  noauthority  for saying that the determination of a valuer  issubject to review by courts.Another	 case  which  the  appellant  relied  upon  was	 TheSecretary  of  State  for India	 v.  Volkart  Brothers	(1).There,	in a deed of lease granted for 99 years by the	EastIndia  Company	there was a clause for renewal	for  anotherlike  period on the lessee paying a sum of money and "	uponsuch terms and conditions as should be judged reasonable  ".The  Secretary	of  State assigned a major  portion  of	 theholding	 to  a third party and Volkart Brothers	 before	 theexpiry of the original lease period tendered the due  amountand  asked for renewal of the lease which the  Secretary  ofState refused to renew and sued to eject the lessees and thelatter	sued  for specific performance of the  covenant	 forrenewal.   It was held by a majority that the  covenant	 wasnot unenforceable on account of uncertainty.  Krishnan,	 J.,was  of the opinion that such a covenant was too  vague	 anduncertain  and	unenforceable  because	the  clauses  to  beinserted  in the contract were themselves uncertain and	 thecontract could not be enforced. Venkatasubba Rao, J., was ofthe  opinion  that  if	the parties would  not	agree  to  areasonable rent the Court will intervene and fix it; The NewBeerbhoom(1)  (1926) I.L.R. 50 Mad. 595.201Coal Company v. Boloram Mahata (1) was relied upon.   CourtsTrotter,  C. J., was also of the opinion that  the  covenantwas not too vague to be enforced.  But this again was a casenot of interfering with the determination of a valuer but ofspecific  performance  of a contract of renewal and  it	 washeld  that  by taking evidence even a vague  and  indefinitecovenant relating to renewal could be made definite.In  my	opinion,  therefore, the Court cannot  go  into	 thequestion of correctness or otherwise of the determination ofthe lease and the appeal should therefore be dismissed	withcosts.By  COURT.-In  view  of the opinion  of	 the  majority,	 theappeals	 are allowed, setting aside the judgment and  decreeof the High Court dated September 30, 1952.  No order as  tocosts of the hearing in this Court.Appeals allowed,