PETITIONER:THAKUR MANMOHAN DEO AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BIHAR AND OTHERS.(AND CONNECTED APPEAL)DATE OF JUDGMENT:19/09/1960BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.KAPUR, J.L.SUBBARAO, K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALACITATION: 1961 AIR  189		  1961 SCR  (1) 695ACT:Ghatwali Tenure-Government ghatwalis-Applicability of  BiharLand  Reforms Act-Legislative competence-Pith and  substanceof  legislation-Bengal	Regulation, 1814 (Regulation  29  of1814)-Bihar  Land Reforms Act, 1950 (Bihar 30 of 1950),	 ss.2(0) (q)  (r), 23 (1) (f), 32(4).HEADNOTE:The appellants were holders of ghatwali tenure called Rohiniand   Pathrole	ghatwalis  and	were  governed	 by   BengalRegulation XXIX of 1814.  The Bihar Land Reforms Act,  1950,was  enacted  by the Bihar State Legislature and  came	intoforce  on  September 25, 1950.	In suits instituted  by	 theappellants the question	 was raised as to whether under	 theprovisions of the   Act	  the  State  could  acquire   theirghatwalis.  They claimed (1)  that    the   Act	  was	 notapplicable  to the Government ghatwali tenures	like  Rohiniand  Pathrole ghatwalis which could not be acquired  by	 theState  under  S.  3 of the Act, in view	 of  the  definitionclause	in S. 2 and SS. 23 (1) (f) and 32(4), (2)  that	 theAct did not purport to repeal Bengal Regulation XXIX of 1814and  inasmuch  as  the said Regulation	dealt  with  specialtenures, the special law enacted with regard to such tenureswould not be affected by the general law with regard to landreforms	 as embodied in the Act, and (3) that, in any  case,ghatwali tenures, being of a quasi-military nature, must  beheld to fall under Entries 1 and 2 of List I of the  SeventhSchedule  to the Constitution of India and,  therefore,	 theAct was outside the competence of the State Legislature.Held:	  (i) that all ghatwali tenures including governmentghatwalis  came within the definition clause in S. 2 of	 theBihar  Land  Reforms Act, 1950, and that SS. 23(1)  (f)	 and32(4),	though	they might be inapplicable to  the  ghatwalitenures	 in question, did not have the effect  of  excludingsuch  tenures from the operation of the other provisions  ofthe Act;(2)  that   the	 Act  in  pith	and  substance	related	  toacquisition  of property and was covered by Entry  36,	ListII, Seventh Schedule to the Constitution and had no relationto  Entries  1	and 2 of List  I.  Consequently,  the  StateLegislature was competent to enact the Act89696The State of Bihar v. Maharajadhiraja Sir Kameshwar Singh ofDarbhanga and Others, [1952] S.C.R. 898, followed.(3)  that  the	principle  that a special  law	relating  tospecial	 tenure is not affected by a subsequent general	 lawof land reforms had no application to the Act which in	pithand  substance	related to acquisition of  property  and  noquestion of the repeal of Regulation XXIX of 1814 arose.Raja  Suriya  Pal Singh v. The State of U. P.  and  Another,[1952] S.C.R. 1056, applied.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos.  273	 and274 of 1955.Appeals from the judgment and order dated December 10, 1954,of the Patna High Court in Appeals from Original Decree Nos.309 and 310 of 1954.L.   K.	 Jha, J. C. Sinha, S. Mustafi and R. R. Biswas,	 forthe appellants.Lal  Narayan Sinha, Bajrang Sahai and R. C. Prasad, for	 therespondents1960.	September  19.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byS.  K. DAS J.-These two appeals on a certificate granted  bythe High Court of Patna are from the judgment and decree  ofthe  said High Court dated December 10, 1954.  By  the	saidjudgment  and  decree the High Court dismissed	two  appealswhich arose out of two suits, Title Suit no. 42 of 1950	 andTitle  Suit  No. 23 of 1952, which were tried  together	 anddismissed  with	 costs by the learned Subordinate  Judge  ofDeoghar.The plaintiffs of those two suits are the appellants  beforeus.   One  of  the appellants Thakur Manmohan  Deo  was	 theholder	of  a ghatwali tenure commonly known as	 the  Rohinighatwali,  situate within the subdivision of Deoghar in	 thedistrict  of  the  Santa  Parjanas.   The  other   appellantTikaitni  Faldani  Kumari  was the holder  of  the  Pathroleghatwali also situate in the same sub-division.	 Both  theseghatwali  tenures were formerly known as  Birbhum  ghatwalisand were governed by Bengal Regulation XXIX of 1814.  In theyear 1950 was enacted the Bihar Land Reforms Act			    6971950  (Bihar  Act 30 of 1950), hereinafter called  the	Act.The Act came into force on September 25, 1950.	The validityof the Act was challenged in the Patna High Court on groundsof  a violation of certain fundamental rights and  the	HighCourt held it to be unconstitutional on those grounds.	 TheConstitution  (First  Amendment) Act, 1951, was	 enacted  onJune 18, 1951, and in appeals from the decision of the PatnaHigh  Court,  this  Court  held in The	State  of  Bihar  v.Maharajadhiraja	 Sir Kameshwar Singh of Darbhanga  (1)	thatthe  Act  was not unconstitutional or void  on	the  groundsalleged, except with regard to the provisions in s. 4(b) ands.  23(f) thereof The validity of the Act is, therefore,  nolonger	open to question on those grounds, though in one  ofthe suits out of which these two appeals have arisen, it wascontended that the Act was ultra vires the Constitution.The  principal issue in the two suits which now survives  isissue no. 3 which said: ,Do the provisions of the Bihar LandReforms	 Act,  1950,  purport  to  acquire  the	 plaintiffs'ghatwalis ? If so, are they ultra vires in their applicationto  such  ghatwalis  ? This issue was  decided	against	 theappellants by the learned Subordinate Judge and the decisionof the learned Subordinate Judge was upheld on appeal by theHigh  Court  of	 Patna	in its	judgment  and  decree  datedDecember  10,  1954, from which decision these	two  appealshave come to us.Three  main  points  have  been	 urged	on  behalf  of	 theappellants.  The first point is one of construction and	 theappellants  contend  that on a proper construction  ,of	 therelevant  provisions  of  the  Act, it	does  not  apply  toghatwali  tenures  like the Rohini and	Pathrole  ghatwalis.Secondly, it is contended that if the provisions of the	 Actapply  to the appellants' ghatwali tenures, then  the  Statelegislature was not competent to enact it, because  ghatwalitenures	 like the Rohini and Pathrole ghatwalis, were  of  aquasi-military	nature	and if the Act applies to  them,  itmust  be held to relate to items 1 and 2 of the	 Union	List(List  I)  and,	 therefore, outside the	 competence  of	 theState-(1)  [1952] S.C.R. 898.698legislature.  The third contention is that the Act does	 notpurport	 to repeal Bengal Regulation XXIX of 1814 and in  asmuch as the said Regulation deals ,With special tenures, thespecial law enacted with regard to such tenures would not beaffected  by the general law with regard to land reforms  asembodied in the Act.  We shall deal with these three conten-tions in the order in which we have stated them.  But beforewe do so, it is necessary to explain, briefly, the nature ofthese ghatwali tenures.We  may	 quote	here  some  of	the  provisions	 of   BengalRegulation  XXIX of 1814.  The Regulation says in s. 1	thatlands  held by the class of persons denominated ghatwals  inthe district of Birbhum form a peculiar tenure to which	 theprovisions  of	the existing Regulations are  not  expresslyapplicable;  it	 then states that according  to	 the  formerusages	and  constitution  of the  country,  this  class  ofpersons	 are entitled to hold their lands, generation  aftergeneration,  in	 perpetuity,  subject  nevertheless  to	 thepayment	 of a fixed and established rent to the zamindar  ofBirbhum	 and  to the performance of certain duties  for	 themaintenance  of the public peace and support of the  police.The  Regulation	 then  lays  down  certain  rules  to	givestability to the arrangement established among the  ghatwalsand these rules are contained in ss. 2, 3, 4 and 5. It wouldbe enough if we quote ss. 2, 3, and a part of s. 5." S. 2. A, settlement having lately been made on the part ofthe Government with the ghatwals in the district of Birbhum,it  is	hereby declared that they and their  descendants  inperpetuity shall be maintained in possession of the lands solong  as they shall respectively pay the revenue at  presentassessed upon them, and that they shall not be liable to anyenhancement  of	 rent  so  long	 as  they  shall  punctuallydischarge  the	same and fulfill the  other  obligations  oftheir tenure.S.   3.	 The  ghatwali	lands shall  be	 considered,  as  atpresent,  to form a part of the zamindari' of  Birbhum,	 butthe  rent of ghatwals shall be paid direct to the  AssistantCollector stationed at Suri, or to			    699such other public officer as the Board of Revenue may directto receive the rents.S.   5.	 Should	 any  of the ghatwals at any  time  fail  todischarge their stipulated rents, it shall be competent	 forthe State Government;to cause the ghatwali tenure of such defaulter to be sold bypublic sale in satisfaction of the arrears due from him,  inlike  manner,  and  under  the same  rules,  as	 lands	heldimmediately  of	 Government, or to make over the  tenure  ofsuch  defaulter to any person whom the State Government	 mayapprove on the condition of making good the arrears due; orto transfer it by grants assessed with the same revenue,  orwith   an  increased  or  reduced  assessment,	as  to	 theGovernment  may	 appear meet; or to dispose of it in such other form and manner as shall  bejudged by the State Government proper."In a number of decisions of the Privy Council the nature  ofthese tenures has been explained and in Satya Narayan  Singhv.   Satya  Niranjan  Chakravarti  (1)	Lord   Sumner	thussummarised the position at pages 198-199 of the report:"In  the  Santal Parganas there are for	 practical  purposesthree classes of ghatwali tenures, (a) Government ghatwalis,created by the ruling power; (b) Government ghatwalis, whichsince  their  'creation	 and generally at the  time  of	 thePermanent  Settlement  have  been included  in	a  zamindariestate	and formed into a unit in its assessment;  and,	 (c)zamindari   ghatwalis,	created	 by  the  zamindar  or	 hispredecessor  and alienable with his consent.  The second  ofthese  classes is really a branch of the first.	 The  mattermay, however, be looked at broadly.  In itself 'ghatwal'  isa  term meaning an office held by a particular	person	fromtime to time, who is bound to the performance of its duties,with  a	 consideration	to  be	enjoyed	 in  return  by	 theincumbent  of  the office.  Within this meaning	 the  utmostvariety	 of  conditions	 may exist.  There  may	 be  a	merepersonal  contract of employment for wages, which takes	 theform  of  the  use  of land or an  actual  estate  in  land,heritable and(1)  I.L.R. 3 Pat. 183.700perpetual, but conditional upon services certain or servicesto  be	demanded.   The office may  be	public	or  private,important  or  the reverse.  The ghatwal, the guard  of	 thepass,  may  be the bulwark of a whole  country-side  againstinvaders; he may be merely a sentry against petty marauders;he may be no more than a kind of gamekeeper, protecting	 thecrops from the ravages of wild animals.	 Ghatwali duties maybe  divided  into police duties and  quasi-military  duties,though both classes have lost much of their importance,	 andthe  latter  in	 any strict form are  but  rarely  rendered.Again  the  duties  of the office may be  such	as  demandedpersonal  competence  for that discharge; they may,  on	 theother hand, be such as can be discharged vicariously, by thecreation  of  shikmi  tenures and  by  the  appointment	 andmaintenance  of a subordinate force, or they may be such  asin their nature only require to be provided for in bulk.  Itis plain that where a grant is forthcoming to a man and	 hisheirs  as  ghatwal, or is to be presumed to have  been	madethough	 it  may  have	been  since  been   lost,   personalperformance  of	 the ghatwali services is not  essential  solong  as  the grantee is responsible for them  and  procuresthem  to be rendered (Shib Lall Singh v. Moorad	 Khan  (1)).So  much for the ghatwal.  The superior; who  appoints	him,may also in the varying circumstances of the Organisation ofHindostan be the ruling power over the country at large, thelandholder  responsible	 by custom for	the  maintenance  ofsecurity and order within his estates, or simply the privateperson,	 to whom the maintenance of watchmen is in the	caseof  an extensive property, important enough to	require	 thecreation of a regular office." It is not disputed before  usthat  the  Rohini  and	Pathrole  ghatwalis  are  Governmentghatwalis  and	admittedly they are governed  by  RegulationXXIX of 1814.The question now is, does the Act apply to these ghatwalis ?It  is necessary now to read some of the provisions  of	 theAct.   Section 2 is the definition section, cl. (o)  whereofdefines a " proprietor cl. (q)(1)  (1868) 9 W.R. 126.701defines a "tenure " and cl. (r) defines a " tenure-holder ".The definition of the two expressions "tenure" and  "tenure-holder" was amended by Bihar Act 20 of 1954.  The amendmentswere  made  with retrospective effect and the  amending	 Actsaid that the amendments shall be deemed always to have beensubstituted.  Now, the three clauses (o), (q) and (r) of  s.2 are in these terms" S. 2(o)-" Proprietor " means a person holding in trust  orowning	for his own benefit an estate or part of an  estate,and   includes	the  heirs  and	 successors-interest  of   aproprietor and, where a proprietor is a minor or of  unsoundmind  or  an idiot, his guardian, committee or	other  legalcurator;(q)  "tenure"  means the interest of a tenure. holder or  anunder-tenure-holder and includes-(i)  a ghatwali tenure,(ii) a tenure created for the maintenance of any person	 andcommonly known as kharposh, babuana, etc., and(iii)	  a share in or of a tenure, but does not include  aMundari	 Khunt Kattidari tenancy within the meaning  of	 theChota  Nagpur  Tenancy	Act, 1908, or  a  bhuinhairi  tenureprepared  and confirmed under the Chota Nagpur Tenures	Act,1869;(r)  " tenure-holder " means a person who has acquired	froma proprietor or from any other tenure-holder a right to holdland for the purpose of collecting rent or bringing it undercultivation by establishing tenants on it and includes-(i)  the successors-in-interest of persons who have acquiredsuch right,(ii) a person who holds such right in trust,(iii)	  a  holder of a tenure created for the	 maintenanceof   any person,(iv) a gbatwal and the successors-in-interest of a  ghatwal,and(v)  where a tenure-holder is a minor or of unsound mind  oran idiot, his guardian, committee or other legal curator."The definition clauses (q) and (r) state in express terms702that   'tenure'	 includes a ghatwali tenure and,  '  tenure-holder'	 includes a ghatwal' and the  successors-in-interestof  a ghatwal.	The argument on behalf of the appellants  isthat  the  definition clauses should be so construed  as  toinclude	  zamindari  ghatwalis	only  and   not	  Governmentghatwalis.   Firstly, it is pointed out that cl. (r) in	 itssubstantive part says that a 'tenure-holder' means a  personwho has acquired from a proprietor or from any other tenure-holder	a right to hold land for the purpose  of  collectingrent  or  bringing  it	under  cultivation  by	establishingtenants on it; this part, it is submitted, cannot apply to aGovernment  ghatwal, because a Government ghatwal  does	 notacquire from a proprietor or from any other tenure-holder  aright  to  hold land for any of the two	 purposes  mentionedtherein.  In this connection our attention has been drawn toel.  (o)  which	 defines a 'proprietor' and  it	 is  furtherpointed	 out  that,  as stated by  Lord	 Sumner,  Governmentghatwals  were	either created by the ruling power  or	weresince  their  creation	and generally at  the  time  of	 thePermanent  Settlement  included in a  zamindari	 estate	 andformed	into  a	 unit in its assessment;  therefore,  it  isargued	that Government ghatwalis did not acquire any  rightfrom a proprietor or any other tenure-holder.  Secondly, it.is Submitted that sub-cl. (i) of el. (q) and sub cl. (iv) ofcl. (r) must be read in the light of the sub. stantive	partof  the	 two clauses, even though the  subclauses  state  inexpress terms that a 'tenure' includes a ghatwali tenure anda  'tenure-holder'  includes a ghatwal.	 It is	pointed	 outthat  a	 zamindari  ghatwal acquires  his  interest  from  aproprietor  and the substantive part of clauses (q) and	 (r)may  apply  to a zamindari ghatwal and his  tenure  but	 thesubstantive  part.of  the  two clauses	cannot	apply  to  aGovernment ghatwal and his tenure.  We are unable to  acceptthis line of argument as correct.Where  a statute says in express terms that  the  expression'tenure'  includes  a ghatwali tenure and the  expression  'tenure-holder  ' includes a ghatwal and	 the  successors-in-interest  of a ghatwal, there must be compelling reasons  toout down the amplitude of the			    703two expressions.  The Bihar legislature must have been awareof   the  distinction  between	Government   ghatwalis	 andzamindari  ghatwalis  and if the intention  was	 to  excludeGovernment gbatwalis, nothing could have been easier than tosay in the two definition clauses that they did	 not-includeGovernment ghatwalis.  On the contrary, the legislature madeno  distinction between Government ghatwalis  and  zamindarighatwalis  but	included  all ghatwali	tenures	 within	 thedefinition  clauses.  There are no restrictive words in	 thedefinition clauses and we see no reasons why any restrictionshould be read into them.  It is worthy of note that the twodefinition clauses first state in the substantive part	whatthe general meaning of the two expressions is, and then	 saythat  the  expressions shall inter alia include	 a  ghatwalitenure	and  a ghatwal and the successors-in-interest  of  aghatwal.  Thus, the two definition clauses are	artificiallyextended  so  as  to include all ghatwali  tenures  and	 allghatwals  and their successors-in-interest, irrespective  ofany consideration as to whether they come within the generalmeaning	 stated in the substantive part of the two  clauses.Such  artificial extension of the two definition clauses  isalso apparent from sub-cl. (v) of el. (r) and sub-cl.  (iii)of  cl. (q).  Sub-clause (iii) of el. (q)  excludes  certaintenures	 from  the definition clause which  would  otherwisecome  within the general meaning of the expression  'tenure'and sub-cl. (v) of cl. (r) extends the expression '  tenure-holder'	 to guardians committees and curators.	When we	 aredealing	 with  an artificial definition of this	 kind  whichstates " means and shall include etc.", there is no room foran argument that even though the definition expressly statesthat  something is included within a particular	 expression,it  must be excluded by reason of its not coming within	 thegeneral meaning of that expression.The  learned Counsel for the appellants has also  called  tohis  aid certain other provisions of the Act in	 support  ofthe  argument  that  the Act does not  apply  to  Governmentghatwalis.  He has referred to s. 23(1)704(f)  and  s.  32(4) of the Act.	 Section 23 deals  with	 thecomputation  of	 net income for the purpose of	preparing  aCompensation  Assessment-roll, by deducting from  the  grossasset  of  each	 proprietor or	tenureholder,  certain	sumsmentioned  in  clauses (a) to (f).  It must be	stated	thatwhat was el. (g) of s. 23(1) before has now become el.	(f),because	 the  original el. (f) of s. 23(1) was	held  to  beunconstitutional  by  this Court in The State  of  Bihar  v.Maharajadhiraja	 Sir  Kameshwar	 Singh	of  Darbhanga	(1).Section	 23(1)	so  far as it is relevant  for	our  purposestates:"  S.  23(1)  For the purpose of  preparing  a	CompensationAssessment-roll, the net income of a proprietor or a tenure-holder	shall be computed by deducting from the gross  assetof such proprietor or tenure-holder, as the case may be, thefollowing, namely:-(a) -----------------------------------(b) ----------------------------------(c) ----------------------------------(d) ----------------------------------(e) ----------------------------------(f)  any other tax or legal imposition payable in respect ofsuch estate or tenure not expressly mentioned in clauses (a)to  (e)	 or  the value, to be  commuted	 in  the  prescribedmanner, of any services or obligations of any other form  tobe  rendered or discharged as a condition precedent  to	 hisenjoyment of such estate or tenure ".Now,  the  argument before us is that el. (f)  of  s.  23(1)cannot	apply to a Government ghatwal, because he can  stillbe  asked to perform the services and obligations  which  hehad undertaken by reason of the office which he held.  It issubmitted  that	 the  Act does not purport  to	abolish	 theghatwali  office  and  as  the office  and  the	 tenure	 areinseparably  connected, the calculation referred to  in	 el.(f)  cannot  be made in the case of a  Government  ghatwali.Our attention has also been drawn to a later decision of thePatna High Court (Election Appeals nos. 7 and 8 of 1958)  ofMarch 20, 1959, wherein a distinction was drawn(1)  [1952] S.C.R. 898.			    705between acquisition and resumption of a ghatwali tenure	 andthe argument that on the acquisition of the ghatwali  tenurethe  office lapsed was not accepted.  We have been  informedat the Bar that that decision is under appeal to this Court.Therefore,  we	do  not propose to say	anything  about	 thecorrectness or otherwise of the view expressed therein.	  Itis  enough to point out that assuming that the	argument  ofthe  appellants is correct and el. (f) of s. 23(1) does	 notapply,	it does not necessarily follow that the	 appellants'ghatwali tenures cannot be acquired by the State  Governmentunder  s. 3 of the Act.	 Section 23(1)(f) provides only	 forthe  deduction of a particular item from the gross asset  ofthe  tenure-holder  for	 the purpose of	 computing  the	 netincome.	  Even	if  el.	 (f) does  not	apply,	the  statuteprovides  for other deductions mentioned in clauses  (a)  to(e).  Those clauses indisputedly apply to a ghatwali  tenureand a Compensation Assessment-roll can be prepared on  theirbasis.	 It  would  not be correct to  say  that  because  aparticular item of deduction does not apply in the case of aGovernment  ghatwali, such ghatwali tenure must be  excludedfrom the ambit of the Act; such a view will be	inconsistentwith  the  scheme  of s. 23.  The scheme of s.	23  is	thatcertain	 deductions  have  to be made  to  compute  the	 netincome; some of the items may apply in one case and some maynot  apply.  The section does not contemplate that  all	 theitems must apply in the case of each and every proprietor ortenure-holder.We now come to s. 32 of the Act.  Section 32(4) states :"S.  32(4) if the estate or tenure in respect of  which	 thecompensation  is payable is held by a limited owner  or	 theholder of life-interest, the Compensation Officer shall keepthe amount of compensation in deposit with the Collector  ofthe  district and the Collector shall direct the payment  ofthe  interest accruing on the amount of compensation to	 thelimited owner or the holder of the life interest during	 hislifetime.   Such  amount  shall remain	deposited  with	 theCollector until the amount of compensation or706portion	 thereof  after making payments, if any,  under	 theproviso	 to this sub-section is made over to any  person  orpersons becoming absolutely entitled thereto:Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall be deemed toaffect	the  right of any limited owner or the holder  of  alife interest to apply to the District Judge for the paymentof  a  part  of the amount of  compensation  to	 defray	 anyexpenses   which  may  be  necessary  to  meet	 any   legalnecessity."It is argued that sub-s. (4) of s. 32 is also not applicableto  a Government ghatwali, because the	expression  'limitedowner  '  occurring therein has been used in  the  sense  inwhich  it  is understood in Hindu Law and the  holder  of  aGovernment  ghatwali is not a limited owner in	that  sense.Learned	 Counsel for the appellants has drawn our  attentionto  the	 expression  " legal  necessity'  occurring  in	 theproviso	 to sub-s. (4) in support of his argument  that	 theexpression 'limited owner ' has the technical sense ascribedto  it in Hindu Law.  On behalf of the respondent  State  ithas  been  argued that the expressions 'limited	 owner'	 and'legal	necessity ' are not used in any technical sense	 andmay apply to persons who under the conditions on which	theyhold the tenure cannot alienate or divide it.  Here again weconsider  it unnecessary to pronounce on the true scope	 andeffect of sub-s. (4) of s. 32. The short question before  usis' are Government ghatwalis excluded from the ambit of	 theAct by reason of sub.s. (4) of s. 32 ? Let us assume withoutdeciding, that sub-s. (4) does not apply to ghatwali tenure.What  is  the result ? Section 32 merely  provides  for	 themanner	of payment of compensation.  If sub-s. (4) does	 notapply,	the payment of compensation will have to be made  inaccordance with sub-s.	 (1) of s. 32 which says:"  S.  32(1).	When the time  within  which  appeals  undersection	 27  may  be  made in respect of  any  entry  in  oromission from a Compensation Assessment-roll has expired  orwhere  any such appeal has been made under that section	 andthe  same  has been disposed of,  the  Compensation  Officershall  proceed	to make payment, in the manner	provide&  inthis section, to the			    707proprietors, tenure' holders and other persons who are shownin  such Compensation Assessment-roll as  finally  publishedunder  section	28 to be entitled to  compensation,  of	 thecompensation payable to them in terms of the said roll afterdeducting from the amount of any compensation so payable anyamount which has been ordered by the Collector under  clause(c)  of	 section  4  or under any other	 section  to  be  sodeducted."Therefore, the result is not that Government ghatwalis; willgo  out of the Act, because sub-s. (4) does not apply.	 Theresult only is that the holders of such tenures will be paidcompensation  in  a different manner.	What  rights  othershaving	a  proprietary interest in a  ghatwali	tenure	haveagainst	 the compensation money does not fall  for  decisionhere.Therefore,  we are of the view that neither s. 23(1)(f)	 nors. 32(4) have the necessary and inevitable result  contendedfor by the appellants, viz., that the appellants',  ghatwalitenures must be excluded from the operation of the Act	eventhough the definition clauses expressly include them.This  brings us to the second point urged before  us.	Thatpoint can be disposed of very shortly.	It is contended thatif the provisions of the Act apply to Government  ghatwalis,then the Act falls outside the legislative competence of theState  Legislature  in	as  much as  the  Act  then  becomeslegislation with regard to items 1 and 2 of the Union  List.These two items are-"1.  Defence  of  India and  every  part  thereof  includingpreparation  for  defence  and	all  such  acts	 as  may  beconducive  in times of war to its prosecution and after	 itstermination to effective demobilisation.2.   Naval, military and air forces; any other armed  forcesof the Union."It  is,	 we think, quite obvious that the Act  has  no	con-nection	 whatsoever with the defence of India or  the  armedforces of the Union.  As Lord Sumner had pointed out as	 farback  as 1923, though ghatwali duties might be divided	intopolice	duties and quasi military duties, both classes	findlost  their  importance and the latter were rarely  if	everdemanded.  This708Court had observed in The State of Bihar v.  MaharajadhirajaSir Kameshwar Singh of Darbhanga and Others (1):"The pith and substance of the legislation, how. ever, in myopinion, is the transference of ownership of estates to	 theState  Government and falls within the ambit of	 legislativehead entry 36 of List II.  There is no scheme of land reformwithin	the  frame work of the statute except that  a  pioushope is expressed that the commission may produce one.	 TheBihar Legislature was certainly competent to make the law onthe  subject  of  transference of estates  and	the  Act  asregards such transfers is constitutional." (per Mahajan, J.,at p. 926 of the report).We  think  that in pith and substance  the  legislation	 wascovered by item 36 of List II (as it then stood) and it	 hasno relation to items 1 and 2 of List I.Now,  as to the last argument founded on Regulation XXIX  of1814.  In our view the Act in pith and substance related  toacquisition of property and consequently no question of	 therepeal of Regulation XXIX of 1814 arose; nor is it necessaryto  consider  the principle that a special law	relating  tospecial tenures is not affected by a subsequent general	 lawof land reforms.  Such a principle has no application in thepresent	 case.	 The  Act expressly  includes  all  ghatwalitenures within its ambit and provides for the vesting of allrights therein absolutely in the State of Bihar on the issueof  a  notification  under  s. 3  and  under  s.  4  certainconsequences  ensue  on	 the issue of  such  a	notificationnotwithstanding anything contained is any other law for	 thetime  being in force.  It is worthy of note that the  BengalPermanent  Settlement Regulation, 1793 (Bengal Regulation  1of  1793), did not stand in the way of acquisition of  otherpermanently settled estates, and it is difficult to see	 howRegulation XXIX of 1814 can stand in the way of	 acquisitionof  ghatwali  tenures.	The point is really covered  by	 thedecision of this Court in Raja Suriya Pat Singh v. The Stateof U. P.(2) where it was observed :(1)  [1952] S.C.R. 898.(2) [1952] S.C.R. 1o56, 1078-79.709" The Crown cannot deprive a legislature of its	 legislativeauthority  by  the  mere fact that in the  exercise  of	 itsprerogative  it makes a grant of land within  the  territoryover  which such legislative authority exists and  no  courtcan annul the enactment of a legislative body acting  withinthe  legitimate	 scope	of its	sovereign  competence.	 If,therefore, it be found that the subject of a Crown grant  iswithin	the competence of a provincial legislature,  nothingcan  prevent  that legislature from  legislating  about	 it,unless	the  Constitution  Act	itself	expressly  prohibitslegislation   on   the	 subject   either   absolutely	  orconditionally."For the reasons given above, we hold that none of the  threepoints urged on behalf of the appellants has any  substance.The appeals fail and are dismissed with costs; there will beonly one hearing fee.Appeals dismissed.