PETITIONER:SARDAR INDER SINGH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN(and connected petitions)DATE OF JUDGMENT:08/02/1957BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, S.K.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1957 AIR  510		  1957 SCR  605ACT:Constitutional	law-Delegated  legislation  and	 conditionallegislation-Distinction-Statute conferring Power on  outsideauthority   to	 extend	  its	operation-Validity-Rajasthan(Protection of Tenants) Ordinance, 1949 (Rajasthan OrdinanceNO.   IX  of  1949), ss. 3,  4,	 7(1),	15-Notifications  byRajpramukh-Validity-Whether  Ordinance contravenes Arts.  14and 19(1)(f) of the Constitution of India.HEADNOTE:By  S.	3(1)  of  the  Rajasthan  (Protection  of   Tenants)Ordinance, 1949, which was promulgated on June 21, 1949,  bythe Rajpramukh of Rajasthan, it was provided: "It shall comeinto  force at once, and shall remain in force for a  periodof  two years unless this period is further extended by	 theRajpramukh by notification in the Rajasthan Gazette."In exercise of the power conferred by this section the	Raj-pramukh	 issued a notification on June 14,  1951,  providingthat  the  above  Ordinance " shall remain in  force  for  afurther	 period of two years with effect from June 21,	1951",  and on June 20, ,953, he issued a  further	notificationproviding  that the said Ordinance " shall remain  in  forcefor  a	term of one year with effect from June 21,  1953  ".Doubts	having	been  raised  as  to  the  validity  of	 thenotification  dated  June 20, 1953,  the  Rajpramukh  issuedanother Ordinance on February 5, 1954, substituting for s. 3of   the  original  Ordinance  dated  June  21,	 1949,	 thefollowing:  "  It shall come into force at  once  and  shallremain	in  force  for	a period of five  years	 ".  It	 wascontended inter alia for the petitioners that the  Ordinancedated  June  2i, 1949, and the notifications issued  by	 theRajpramukh were invalid on the grounds (1) that s. 3 of	 theOrdinance was ultra vires as the power which it conferred onthe  Rajpramukh	 to extend the period fixed therein  was  anunconstitutional  delegation of legislative power, (2)	thatthe  notification dated June 20, 1953, was bad	because	 theLegislature  of Rajasthan had been constituted on March	 29,1952,  and  the	 authority of the  Rajpramukh  to  legislateconferred  by Art. 385 of the Constitution of India had,  onthat  date,  come  to  an end and  (3)	that  the  Ordinancecontravened Arts. 14 and 19(1) (f) of the Constitution.Held:(1)  Section  3  Of  the Ordinance	 in  so	 far  as  itauthorised  the	 Rajpramukh  to	 extend	 the  life  of	 theOrdinance   fell   within  the	 category   of	 conditionallegislation and is intra vires.606A  provision in a statute conferring a power on	 an  outsideauthority  to bring it into force at such time as it  might,in  its	 own discretion, determine, is	conditional  and notdelegated  legislation	and  is valid, and it  can  make  nodifference   in	 the  character	 of  a	legislation   as   aconditional one that the legislature, after itself  enactingthe law and fixing, on a consideration of the facts as	theymight have then existed, the period of its duration, confersa power on an outside authority to extend its operation	 fora further period if it is satisfied that the state of  factswhich called forth the legislation continues to subsist.Queen v. Burah, (1878) 5 I.A. 178, relied on.In re The Delhi Laws Act, 1912, (1951) S.C.R. 747 and  Stateof  Bombay  v.	Narothamdas  jethabai,	(1951)	S.C.R.	 51,referred to.Jatindra  Nath Gupta v. The State of Bihar, (1949) F. C.  R.595, in so far as it decided that a power to extend the lifeof  an enactment cannot validly be conferred on	 an  outsideauthority, dissented from.(2)  The  Rajpramukh issued the notification dated June	 20,1953,  in his character as the authority on whom  power	 wasconferred  under  S.  3	 of the Ordinance  and	not  as	 thelegislative  authority	of  the State  and  accordingly	 thenotification is valid.(3)  The Ordinance cannot be held to be bad under Art. 14 Ofthe  Constitution on the ground that s. 15 of the  Ordinancewhich  authorises  the Government to exempt  any  person  orclass  of persons from the operation of the  Ordinance	doeshot  lay  down the principles on which	exemption  could  begranted leaving the matter to the unfettered and uncanaliseddiscretion  of the Government, because, the preamble to	 theOrdinance  sets out with sufficient clearness the policy  ofthe  legislature and as that governs s. I5, the decision  ofthe Government cannot be said to be unguided.Harishankay  Bagla v. The State of Madhya Pradesh, (1955)  1S.C.R. 380, 388, relied on.Where  the  preamble  to the Ordinance recites	that  it  isexpedient  to enact a law for giving protection to  tenants,and for granting relief to them the legislature decides fromwhat  date  the	 law should be given operation,	 that  is  amatter exclusively for the legislature to determine, and  isnot   open   to	 question  in  Courts  on  the	 ground	  ofdiscrimination	in  that the landlords who  had	 tenants  ontheir	lands	before	-that  date  were  free	  from	 itsrestrictions.(4)  The provisions of the Ordinance which oblige the  land-owners	to keep tenants on their lands,	 thereby  preventingthem from themselves cultivating the same, are not repugnantto Art. 19(1) (f) of the Constitution, because the object oftheOrdinance  was not to put a restriction on the right of	 theowner  himself	to cultivate the lands, but to	prevent	 himwhen  he had inducted a tenant on the land from getting	 ridof  him without sufficient cause, and, a law which  requiresthat in owner who is not himself a tiller of the soil shouldassure to the actual tiller some fixity of tenure, cannot onthat ground alone be said to be unreasonable.Block v. Hirsh, (192O) 256 U. S. I35: 65 L. Ed. 865,  reliedon.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION :Petitions Nos. 50, 145,149,  150,  188, 243, 261, 266 and 362 of 1955	and  205  of1956.Petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forthe enforcement of fundamental rights.M.   M.	 Tiwari and K. R. Choudhry, for the  petitioners  inPetitions Nos. 50, 150, 243, 261, 266 and 362 of 1955.Ganpat Rai, for petitioners in Petitions Nos. 145, 149,	 188of 1955 and 205 of 1956.Porus A. Mehta and T. M. Sen, for the State of Rajasthan andBoard of Revenue in all the Petitions.Udhai  Bhan  Chaudhry,	for  respondents Nos.  2  and  3  inPetition No. 145 of 1955.K.   P. Gupta, for respondents Nos. 4 to 6 in Petit' ion No.149 of 1955.Tarachand  Brijmohan  Lal, for respondents Nos. 3  to  9  inPetition No. 243 of 1955.Bhawani Lal and P. C. Aggarwal, for respondents Nos. 3 to  5in Petition No. 261 of 1955.S.S.  Shukla,  for respondent No. 4 in Petition No.  266  of1955.S.   N.	 Anand, for respondent No. 3 in Petition No. 362  of1955.K.   L.	 Mehta, for respondent No. 2 in Petition No. 205  of1956.1957.	February 8. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyVENKATARAMA AYYAR J.-These are petitions filed under Art. 32of the Constitution by proprietors of608lands  in the State of Rajasthan, challenging the  vires  ofThe  Rajasthan	(Protection  of	 Tenants)  Ordinance,  1949,Ordinance  No.	IX of 1949, hereinafter referred to  as	 theOrdinance, of notifications dated June 14, 1951 and June 20,1953, issued thereunder and of the Rajasthan (Protection  ofTenants) Amendment Act No. X of 1954.It  will be useful at the outset to state briefly the  factsrelating  to the constitution of the legislative  authority,in  the	 exercise  of  which  the  impugned  Ordinance	 andnotifications were issued.  When the British were the Rulersof  this  Country, Rajputana, as the State was	then  known,consisted  of 18 principalities claiming  sovereign  status.After  independence,  a	 movement  was	set  afoot  for	 theintegration  of all the principalities into a single  State,and  the process was completed on May 5, 1949, when  all  ofthem  became  merged in a Union called the United  State  ofRajasthan.   The constitution of the State was settled in  aCovenant,  to which all the Rulers agreed.  Under Art 11  ofthe  Covenant,	the States agreed "to  unite  and  integratetheir  territories  in one State with  a  common  executive,legislature and judiciary by the name of the United State ofRajasthan".   Under  Art.  VI(2), the Rulers made  over	 alltheir rights, authorities and jurisdiction to the new  Statewhich  "shall thereafter be exercisable only as provided  bythis   Covenant	 or  by	 the  Constitution  to'	 be   framedthereunder".  Article X(3) provides that,"Until	a Constitution so framed comes into operation  afterreceiving  the	assent of the  Rajpramukh,  the	 legislativeauthority of the United State shall vest in the	 Rajpramukh,who  may  make and promulgate Ordinances for the  peace	 andgood  government of the State or any part thereof,  and	 anyOrdinance so made shall have the like force of law as an Actpassed by the legislature of the United State."Article	 X(3) was subsequently modified by substituting	 forthe  words  "Until  a  Constitution  so	 framed	 comes	intooperation after receiving the assent of the Rajpramukh", thewords " Until the Legislative Assembly of Rajasthan has beenduly constituted and609summoned  to  meet  for the first  session  under  the	pro.visions of the Constitution of India." Reference may also bemade to Art. 385 of the Constitution of India, which runs asfollows:"  Until the House or Houses of the Legislature of  a  Statespecified  in Part B of the First Schedule has or have	beenduly constituted-and summoned to meet for the first  sessionunder  the  provisions	of the	Constitution,  the  body  orauthority functioning immediately before the commencement ofthis  Constitution as the Legislature of  the  correspondingIndian	State  shall  exercise the powers  and	perform	 theduties	conferred by the provisions of this Constitution  onthe  House  or	Houses of the Legislature of  the  State  sospecified "It  may	 be  mentioned	that  the  Legislative	Assembly  ofRajasthan  was constituted and came into being on March	 29,1952,  and  until then, it was the Rajpramukh  in  whom	 theLegislative authority of the State was vested.On  June 21, 1949, the Rajpramukh promulgated  the  impugnedlegislation, the Rajasthan (Protection of Tenants) OrdinanceNo.  IX	 of  1949.  The preamble to the	 Ordinance  runs  asfollows:"Whereas  with	a  view to putting a check  on	the  growingtendency of landholders to eject or dispossess tenants	fromtheir  holdings,  and  in the  wider  national	interest  ofincreasing the production of foodgrains, it is expedient  tomake  provisions for the protection of tenants in  Rajasthanfrom ejectment or dispossession from their holdings."Section 4 of the Ordinance provides:"So  long  as  the  Ordinance is in force  in  any  area  ofRajasthan,  no	tenant	shall  be  liable  to  ejectment  ordispossession  from  the whole or a part of his	 holding  insuch area on any ground whatsoever."Section 7 provides for reinstatement of tenants who had beenin occupation on the first day of April, 1948, but had	beensubsequently dispossessed; and by an Amendment Act No.	XVIIof  1952, this right was extended to tenants, who  got	intopossession even after the first day of April.610Section	 3(1) of the Ordinance, which is very  material	 forthe present petitions, runs as follows:"  It  shall come into force at once, and  shall  remain  inforce  for  a  period of two years  unless  this  period  isfurther	 extended by the Rajpramukh by notification  in	 theRajasthan Gazette."In  exercise  of the power conferred by	 this  section,	 theRajpramukh  issued  a  notification  on	 June  14,  195	  1,providing  that	 Ordinance No. IX of 1949 "shall  remain  inforce  for  a further period of two years with	effect	fromJune  21,  1951".   On June 20, 1953, he  issued  a  furthernotification providing that the said Ordinance" shall remainin  force for a term of one year with effect from  June	 21,1953." Doubts would appear to have been expressed about	 thevalidity  of the notification, dated June 20, 1953,  on	 thearound that as the State Legislature had come into being  onMarch  29,  1952, the power of the Rajpramukh  to  legislateunder  Art.  385 of the Constitution had come to an  end  onthat  date.  To resolve the doubt, the Rajpramukh issued  onFebruary  15,  1954,  an Ordinance under  Art.	238  of	 theConstitution,,	No. III of 1954, substituting for s.  3	 thefollowing:"  3. It shall come into force at once and shall  remain  inforce for a period of five years.."That would have given operation to Ordinance No. IX of	1949up  to	June 21, 1954.	Then the Legislature  of  the  Staterepealed  Ordinance  No.  III  of  1954,  and  enacted	 theRajasthan  (Protection	of Tenants) Amendment Act No.  X  of1954,  and  that came into force on April 17,  1954.   Underthis Act, a. 3 of Ordinance No. IX of 1949 was re-enacted asfollows:" It shall come into force at once and shall remain in forcefor a period of seven years."The petitioners question the validity of Ordinance No. IX of1949,  of  the notifications dated June 14, 1951,  and	June20,1953,  and  of  Act No. X of 1954.  It  appears  that  onOctober 15, 1955, a new enactment, the Rajasthan Tenancy ActNo.  III  of  1955, came into force,  and  the	relationshipbetween	 landlords and tenants is now governed by this	Act.But as a large611number of petitions filed by the tenants under Ordinance No.IX of 1949 are still undisposed of by reason of stay  ordersobtained by the petitioners herein, it is necessary for	 thepurpose	 of granting relief to them on these  petitions,  todecide whether the impugned Ordinance and notifications	 arebad  on any of the grounds put forward by  the	petitioners.We  accordingly	 proceed to a consideration of	the  presentpetitions on their merits.Counsel	 for petitioners urged the following contentions  insupport of the petitions:(1)The notifications dated June 14, 1951, and June 20, 1953,are  bad,  as s. 3 of the Ordinance under  which  they	wereissued	is  ultra  vires,  as  constituting  delegation	  oflegislative power.(2)The	notification  dated June 20,1953,  is  further	bad,because the Legislature of Rajasthan had been constituted onMarch  29,  1952,  and the authority of	 the  Rajpramukh  tolegislate conferred by Art. 385 of the Constitution had,  onthat date, come to an end.(3)Act	No. X of 1954 is bad, as it purports to	 extend	 thelife  of Ordinance No. IX of 1949 after the  said  Ordinancehad already become dead.(4)The impugned Ordinance is bad as being repugnant to	Art.14 of the Constitution; and(5)The	Ordinance  also	 contravenes Art.  19(1)(g)  of	 theConstitution in that it imposes unreasonable restrictions onthe right of the 'petitioners to hold property. In logical sequence, it is the third contention that shouldfirst be considered, because if Act No. X of 1954 is upheld,that must validate Ordinance No. IX of 1949 for the  periodscovered by the impugned, notifi. cations dated June 14,	 1951,  and	 June  20, 1953, and in that event,  the  first	 twocontentions   will  not	 survive  for  determination.	 Theargument  of the petitioners in support, of this  contentionis that even if either of the two notifications aforesaid isheld  to  be  bad, then the impugned  Ordinance	 would	haveexpired	 at least on June 21, 1953, if not earlier  on	June21,  195 1 ; and that neither Act No. X of 1954	 which	cameinto force on612April 17, 1954, nor even Ordinance No. III of 1954 which waspromulgated  on February 15, 1954, could give life  to	whatwas  already dead.  It is conceded that a legislation  mightbe  retrospective  ; but it is contended that Act No.  X  of1954  was not an independent legislation enacting a code  ofprovisions  which  were	 to-operate  retroactively  but	  anamendment of Ordinance No. IX of 1949, and as that Ordinancehad expired by efflux of time on June 21, 1951, if the noti-fications dated June 14, 1951 , and June 20, 1953, were bad,then  there  was,  when Act No. X of  1954  was	 passed,  noOrdinance  in  existence  on  which  the  amendment,   couldoperate,  and  that  it	 was  therefore	 ineffective.	Somesupport	  for  this  contention	 might	be  found   in	 theobservations  of  Kania C.J. in Jatindra Nath Gupta  v.	 TheProvince  of Bihar (1) at page 606, of Mahajan J.  at  pages627-628	 and  of Mukherjea J. at pages 643-644.	  There	 is,however, no need to discuss the matter further, as we are ofopinion that the petitioners must fail in their	 contentionson the first two questions.Taking	the  first  question  as to  whether  s.  3  of	 theOrdinance is bad, in so far as it authorised the  Rajpramukhto  extend  the	 life  of the Act,  the	 contention  of	 thepetitioners   is  that	it  is	essentially  a	matter	 forlegislative  determination as to how long a  statute  shouldoperate, that s. 3 having provided that the Ordinance shouldbe in force for a period of two years, any extension of thatperiod	could only be made by the Legislature and not by  anoutside authority, and that Accordingly the power  conferredby that section on the Rajpramukh to extend the period fixedtherein	 is  an unconstitutional delegation  of	 legislativepower.	Reliance is placed in support of this contention  onthe decision in Jatindra Nath Gupta v. The Province of Bihar(1).   There,  the  question was as to	the  validity  of  anotification  issued by the Government of Bihar on March  7,1949,  extending the operation of the Bihar  Maintenance  ofPublic Order Act V of 1947 to Chota Nagpur Division and	 theSanthal	 Parganas  District with retrospective	effect	fromMarch 16, 1948, Section(1)  [1949] F.C.R. 595.6131(3)  of the Act had provided that it shall remain in  forcefor a period of one year from its commencement, but that wassubject to a proviso, which ran as follows:"Provided   that   the	 Provincial   Government   may,	  bynotification,	on   a	resolution  passed  by	 the   BiharLegislative Assembly and agreed to by the Bihar	 LegislativeCouncil,  direct that this Act shall remain in force  for  afurther period of one year with such modifications, if	any,as may be prescribed in the notification." The	notificationin  question was issued in exercise of the  power  conferredunder  this proviso, and it was held by the majority of	 theCourt  that the proviso was unconstitutional as it  amountedto delegation of legislative authority, and that, therefore'the notification issued pursuant thereto was bad.  Three  ofthe  learned  Judges expressed the view that  the  power  toextend	the  operation of an Act was  purely  a	 legislativefunction,  and that it could not be delegated to an  outsideauthority.  Thus, Kania C. J. observed at pages 604-605:"The  power  to extend the operation of the Act	 beyond	 theperiod	mentioned  in the Act prima facie is  a	 legislativepower.	 It  is	 for the Legislature to	 state	how  long  aparticular legislation will be in operation.  That cannot beleft  to the discretion of some other body............	Evenkeeping	 apart the power to modify the Act, I am  unable  toconstrue  the  proviso'	 worded, as it	is,  as	 conditionallegislation by the Provincial Government.  Section 1(3)	 andthe proviso read together cannot be properly interpreted  tomean that the Government of Bihar in the performance of	 itslegislative  functions	had prescribed the life of  the	 Actbeyond	one  year.  For its continued existence	 beyond	 theperiod	of  one year it had not exercised  its	volition  orjudgment  but left the same to another authority, which	 wasnot the legislative authority of the Province."Mahajan J. dealing with this question observed at page 623:"I am further of the opinion that the power given to  extendthe  life of the Act for another year in the context of	 thelanguage  of s. 1(3) also amounts to an act  of	 legislationand does not fall under the rule laid614down in The Queen v. Burah (1).	 The Actin a mandatory	formstated	that  it shall be in force for one year	 only  'Thatbeing  so, the power given in the proviso to reenact it	 foranother	 year  is legislative power and does not  amount  toconditional legislation."Mukherjea J. was of the opinion that if the legislation	 wasto  take  effect  on  the  determination  of  some  fact  orcondition   by	 an  extraneous	 authority,  it	  would	  beconditional  legislation,  and that would be  valid  on	 theauthority  of  the decision in The Queen v. Burah  (1),	 butthat  it  would not be valid if it was left  to	 an  outsideauthority " to determine at some future date whether the Actshould	be  extended for one year further  with	 or  withoutmodifications".	  Fazl	Ali J. took the contrary  view.	  Heobserved -at page 646:"So  far as the extension of the Act is concerned, I am	 notprepared to hold that it amounts to legislation or  exerciseof  legislative	 power.	  From the Act, it  is	clear  that,though it was in the first instance to remain in force for aperiod of one year, the Legislature did contemplate that  itmight have to be extended for a further period of one  year.Having	decided that it might have to be extended,  it	leftthe  matter  of	 the  extension to  the	 discretion  of	 theProvincial Government.	It seems to me that the	 Legislaturehaving exercised its judgment as to the period for which theAct was or might have to remain in force, there was  nothingwrong in its legislating conditionally and leaving it to thediscretion of the executive authority whether the Act shouldbe  extended  for a further period of one year or  not.	  Itwould  be taking a somewhat narrow view of the	decision  inBurah's case(1) to hold that all that the Legislature can dowhen legislating conditionally, is to leave merely the	timeand  the manner of carrying its legislation in to effect  tothe discretion of the executive authority and that it cannotleave any other matter to its discretion.  The extension  ofthe Act for a further period of one year does not amount  toits reenactment.  It merely amounts to a continuance of	 theAct  for the maximum period contemplated by the	 Legislaturewhen enacting it."(1)  [1878] L.R. 5 I.A. 178.615It will be noticed that the authority conferred on the BiharGovernment  by	the proviso to s. 3 was one  not  merely  toextend the life of the Act as in the present case, but	alsoto  extend it with such modifications as might be  specifiedin the notification.  It is this latter clause that came  inprincipally for attack in the judgments of the majority, andthe  decision that the proviso as a whole was bad was  basedprimarily  on  the view that that clause  was  ultra  vires.Kania  C. J. no doubt observed that the power to extend	 theoperation  of  the  Act was, even apart from  the  power  tomodify	it, a legislative function.  But he also added	thatthe power conferred by the proviso was a single one and thatthe power to extend the life of the Act could not be severedfrom the power to modify it.  The matter was made even	moreplain by Mukherjea J. in his judgment in State of Bombay  v.Narothamdas Jethabai (1).  There, the Bombay High Court	 hadheld, relying on the decision in Jatindra Nath Gupta v. The,Province  of Bihar (2), that s. 4 of the Bombay	 City  CivilCourts	Act, 1948 which conferred authority on the State  toinvest Civil Courts by notification with jurisdiction to trysuits not exceeding Rs. 25,000 was bad.	 In disagreeing withthis conclusion, Mukherjea J. observed:"  The learned Judges of the Bombay High Court in coming  totheir decision on the point seem to have been influenced  tosome  extent by the pronouncement of the, Federal  Court  inJatindranath  Gupta  v.	 Province of Bihar  (2	),  and	 thelearned	  Counsel  for	the  respondents  naturally   placedreliance  upon	it.........  Mr.  Seervai  would  have	beenprobably  right in invoking the decision in that case as  anauthority in,his favour if the proviso simply empowered	 theProvincial  Government, upon compliance with the  conditionsprescribed therein, to extend the duration of the Act for  afurther	 period of one year, the maximum period being  fixedby  the	 Legislature  itself.  The  proviso,  however,	wentfurther	 and authorised the Provincial Government to  decideat the end of the year not merely whether the Act should  becontinued for another year but whether the Act itself was tobe modified in any(1) [1951] S.C.R. 51.(2) [1949] F.C.R. 595.616way  or	 not.	It  was	 conceded  by  the  learned  Counselappearing  for	the  Province of  Bihar	 that  to  authoriseanother	 body to modify a statute amounts to investing	thatbody  with  legislative powers.	 What  the  learned  Counselcontended  for	was  that  the	power  of  modification	 wasseverable  from the power of extending the duration  of	 theStatute and the invalidity of one part of the proviso shouldnot affect its other part.  To this contention my answer wasthat the two provisions were inter-related in such manner inthe statute that one could not be severed from the other."The decision in Jatindra Nath Gupta v. The Province of Bihar(1)  cannot  therefore	be regarded as a  clear	 and  directpronouncement  that  a statutory  provision  authorising  anoutside authority to extend the life of a statute is per  sebad.We  must now refer to the decision in In re The	 Delhi	LawsAct,  1912  (2),  wherein  the	law  relating  to  delegatedlegislation  was exhaustively reviewed by this	Court:	Thatwas a reference under Art. 143 of the Constitution stating anumber	of questions for the opinion of this Court.  Due  toconsiderable  divergence of views expressed in	the  severaljudgments  as  to the limits of permissible  delegation,  nounanimity  could be reached in,the answers to the  questionsreferred.  But it can be said of certain propositions of lawthat  they  had the support of the majority of	the  learnedJudges, and one such proposition is that when an appropriateLegislature enacts a law and authorises an outside authorityto  bring it into force in such area or at such time  as  itmay   decide,  that  is	 conditional  and   -not   delegatedlegislation,  and  that such legislation is valid.   In	 ouropinion,,  s. 3 of the Ordinance in so far as it  authorisesthe  Rajpramukh to extend the life of the Act  falls  withinthe   category	of  conditional	 legislation,  and  is,	  inconsequence,  intra  vires.  The leading  authority  on	 thequestion is the decision of the Privy Council in The,  Queenv. Burah(s).  There, the question was as to the validity  ofa notification issued by the Lieutenant-Governor of-- Bengal(1)  [1949] F.C.R. 595(3)  [1878] 5 I.A, 178.(2) [1951] S.C.R. 747.617on  October  14, 1871, extending the provisions of  Act	 No.XXII  of 1869 to a territory known as the Jaintia and  KhasiHills in exercise of a power conferred by s. 9 of that	Act,which was as follows:"  The	said Lieutenant-Governor may from time to  time,  bynotification in the Calcutta Gazette extend mutatis mutandisall or any of the provisions contained in the other sectionsof  this  Act to the Jaintia Hills, the Naga Hills,  and  tosuch portion of the Khasi Hills ,as for the time being formspart of British India.	"The High Court had held by a majority that that section	 wasultra  vires,  as  amounting to	 delegation  of	 legislativeauthority.  But that decision was reversed on appeal to	 thePrivy	Council,   which  held	that  it   was	 conditionallegislation,  and was valid.  Lord Selborne stated  the	 lawthus :" Their Lordships agree that the Governor-General in Councilcould  not, by any form of enactment, create in	 India,	 andarm  with general legislative authority, a  new	 legislativepower,	not  created  or authorised by	the  Councils'	Act.Nothing of that kind has, in their Lordships' opinion,	beendone  or attempted in the present case.	 What has been	doneis this.  The Governor-General in Council has determined, inthe  due  and ordinary course of legislation,  to  remove  aparticular  district from the jurisdiction of  the  ordinaryCourts	and  offices, and to place it under new	 Courts	 andoffices,   to  be  appointed  by  and  responsible  to	 theLieutenant-Governor of Bengal leaving it to the	 Lieutenant-Governor  to  say  at  what  time  that	 change	 shall	takeplace............ The Legislature determined that, so far, acertain change should take place; but that it was  expedientto  leave  the	time, and the manner, of  carrying  it	intoeffect	to the discretion of the  Lieutenant-Governor.......The  proper  Legislature has exercised its  judgment  as  toplaceperson, laws, powers; and the result of that,  judgmenthas been to legislate conditionally as to all these  things.The  conditions' having been fulfilled, the  legislation  isnow absolute.  Where plenary powers of legislation exist  asto  particular	subjects,  whether in an Imperial  or  in  aprovincial Legislature, they may (in318their,	Lordships'  judgment)  be  well	 exercised,   eitherabsolutely  or conditionally.  Legislation,  conditional  onthe  use  of  particular powers, or on	the  exercise  of  alimited discretion, entrusted by the Legislature to  personsin whom it places confidence, is no uncommon thing; and,  inmany  circumstances,  it  may  be  highly  convenient.	 TheBritish	 Statute  Book abounds with examples of it;  and  itcannot	be  supposed that the Imperial Parliament  did	not,when constituting the Indian Legislature, contemplate  this'kind  of conditional legislation as within the scope of	 thelegislative powers which it from time to time conferred.  "This  is  clear	 authority that s  provision  in  a  statuteconferring a power on an outside authority to bring it	intoforce  at  such	 time as it might, in  its  own	 discretion,determine, is conditional and not delegated legislation, andthat  it will be valid, unless there is in the	ConstitutionAct any limitation on its power to enact such a legislation.The  petitioners do not dispute this.  What they contend  isthat  while it may be competent to the Legislature to  leaveit to an outside authority to decide when an enactment mightbe  brought  into  force,  it is  not  competent  to  it  toauthorise  that	 authority  to extend the life	of  the	 Actbeyond	the  period  fixed therein.  On principle  ,  it  isdifficult  to see why if the one is competent, the other  isnot.   The  reason  for upholding  a  legislative  provisionauthorising an outside authority to bring an Act into  forceat  such time &a it may determine is that it must depend  onthe facts as they may exist at a given point of time whetherthe  law  should  then	be made to  operate,  and  that	 thedecision  of  such  an issue is best left  to  an  executiveauthority.  Such legislation is termed conditional,  becausethe  Legislature  has  itself  made  the  law  in  all	 itscompleteness  as regards " place, person, laws,	 powers',',,leaving	 nothing for an outside authority to  legislate	 on,the only function assigned to it being to bring the law intooperation at such time as it might decide,.  And it can;  mano  difference	in  the character of  a	 legistation  as  -aconditional one that the legislature, after itself  enactingthe law and fixing, on a consideration619of the facts as they might have then existed, the period  ofits  duration,	confers a power on an outside  authority  toextend its operation for a further period if it is satisfiedthat  the state of facts which called forth the	 legislationcontinues to subsist.In  the present case, the preamble to the Ordinance  clearlyrecites the state of facts which necessitated the  enactmentof  the law in question, and s. 3 fixed the duration of	 theAct as two years, on an understanding of the situation as itthen existed.  At the same time, it conferred a power on theRajpramukh  to extend the life of the Ordinance beyond	thatperiod,	 if  the state of affairs then	should	require	 it.When  such  extension  is  decided  by	the  Rajpramukh	 andnotified,  the	law that will operate is the law  which	 wasenacted by the legislative authority in respect of "  place,person,	 laws, powers ", and it is clearly  conditional	 andnot delegated legislation as laid down in The Queen v. Burah(1),  and  must, in consequence, be held to  be	 valid.	  Itfollows	 that we are unable to agree with the  statement  ofthe  law  in Jatindra Nath Gupta v. The, State	of  Bihar(2)that  a	 power	to extend the life of  an  enactment  cannotvalidly be conferred on an outside authority.  In this view,the  question as to the permissible limits of delegation  oflegislative  authority on which the judgments in In  re	 TheDelhi  Laws  Act,  1912 (3 ), reveal  a	 sharp	conflict  ofopinion does not arise for consideration, and we reserve ouropinion thereon.(2)  It	 is next contended that the notification dated	June20,  1953, is bad, because after the Constitution came	intoforce,	the  Rajpramukh derived his authority  to  legislatefrom  Art.  385, and that under that Article  his  authorityceased	when the Legislature of the State  was	constituted,which  was  in the present case, on March  29,	1952.	Thisargument  proceeds  on	a  misconception  as  to  the	truecharacter  of  a  notification	issued under  s.  3  of	 theOrdinance.   It was not an independent piece of	 legislationsuch  as  could	 be  enacted  only  by	the  then  competentlegislative(1)  [1878] 5 I.A. 178.(3)  [1951] S.C.R. 747.80(2) [1949] F.C.R. 595.620authority  of the State, but merely an exercise of  a  powerconferred by a statute which had been previously enacted  bythe appropriate legislative authority.	The exercise of sucha  power is referable not to the legislative  competence  ofthe Rajpramukh but to Ordinance No- IX of 1949, and provideds.  3  is  valid, the validity of the  notification  is	 co-extensive with that of the Ordinance.  If the Ordinance	 didnot come to an end by reason of the fact that the  authorityof  the Rajpramukh to legislate came to an end-and  that  isnot and cannot be disputed-neither did the power to issue  anotification which is conferred therein.  The true  positionis  that  it is in his character as the	 authority  on	whompower  was  conferred under s. 3 of the Ordinance  that	 theRajpramukh issued the impugned notification, and not as	 thelegislative  authority of the State.  This objection  shouldaccordingly  be	 overruled.(4)   We  shall	 next  consider	 the  contention  that	 theprovisions of the Ordinance are repugnant to Art. 14 of	 theConstitution,  and  that it must therefore be held  to	havebecome	void.	In the argument before us,  the	 attack	 wasmainly	directed against ss. 7 (1) and 15 of the  Ordinance.The contention with reference to s. 7(1) is that under	thatsection landlords who had tenants on their lands on April 1,1948,	were  subjected	 to  various  restrictions  in	 theenjoyment  of their rights as owners, while other  landlordswere free from similar restrictions.  There is no  substancein  this contention.  The preamble to the Ordinance  recitesthat  there  was  a  growing tendency on  the  part  of	 thelandholders  to	 eject tenants, and that  it  was  thereforeexpedient to enact a law for giving them protection; and forgranting relief to them, the Legislature had necessarily  todecide from what date the law should be given operation, andit decided that it should be from April 1, 1948.  That is  amatter exclusively for the Legislature to determine, and thepropriety  of that determination is not open to question  inCourts.	  We  should  add that	the  petitioners  sought  todispute	 the  correctness of the recitals in  the  preamble.This  they  clearly  cannot do.	 Vide  the  observations  ofHolmes J. in Block v. Hirsh (1).(1)  [1920]256 U.S. 135: 65 L. Ed. 865.621A  more	 substantial contention is the one based or  a.	 15,which  authorises  the Government to exempt  any  person  orclass  of  persons  from the operation of the  Act.   It  isargued that that section does not lay down the principles onwhich  exemption could be granted, and that the decision  ofthe  matter  is	 left  to  the	unfettered  and	 uncanaliseddiscretion of the Government, and is therefore repugnant  toArt.  14.   It	is true that that section  does	 not  itselfindicate  the grounds on which exemption could	be  granted,but  the preamble to the Ordinance sets out with  sufficientclearness the policy of the Legislature; and as that governss.  15	of  the Ordinance, the decision	 of  the  Governmentthereunder cannot be said to be unguided.  Vide	 HarishankerBagla v. The State of Madhya Pradesh (1).  But even if s. 15were to be held to be bad, that does not affect the rest  ofthe legislation, as the matter dealt with in that section isclearly severable.  In fact, s. 15 was not in the  Ordinanceas it was originally enacted, and was only introduced  laterby  Ordinance,	No. XII of 1949.  We must  accordingly	holdthat  the impugned Ordinance cannot be held to be bad  underArt. 14.It  is finally contended that the provisions of the Act	 arerepugnant  to Art. 19 (1) (f) in that they oblige the  land-owners	to keep tenants on their lands,	 thereby  preventingthem  from themselves cultivating the same.  The  object  ofthe Ordinance, as set out in the preamble, is clearly not toput  a	restriction  on the right of  an  owner	 to  himselfcultivate the lands, but to prevent him when he had inducteda  tenant  on  the  land from getting  rid  of	him  withoutsufficient cause.  A law which requires that an owner who isnot himself a tiller of the soil should assure to the actualtiller some fixity of tenure, cannot on that ground alone besaid to be unreasonable.  Legislation of this character	 hasbeen upheld in America as not infringing any  Constitutionalguarantee.   Thus,  in Block v. Hirsh (2), a  statute  whichgave a right to tenants to continue in possession even afterthe  expiry  of the lease, was held to be valid,  Holmes  J.observing,(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 380, 388.  (2) [1920] 256.	U.S. 135; 65L.Ed. 865.622"The main point against the law is that tenants are  allowedto remain in possession at the same rent that they have beenpaying, unless modified by the commission established by theAct, and that thus the use of the land and the right of	 theowner  to  do  what he will with his own and  to  make	whatcontracts  he  pleases	are cut down.	But  if	 the  publicinterest  be established, the regulation of rates is one  ofthe first forms in which it is asserted, and the validity ofsuch  regulation  has been settled since Munn v.  People  ofIllinois (1) .... :..... The preference given to the  tenantin  possession	is  an almost necessary	 ingredient  of	 thepolicy,	 and is traditional in English law.  If	 the  tenantremained  subject  to  the landlord's power  to	 evict,	 theattempt to limit the landlord's demands would fail."It  should  also be remembered in this connection  that	 theimpugned   Ordinance  is  an  emergency	 legislation  of   atemporary character, and, as observed in Dr. N. B. Khare  v.The  State of Delhi (2), that is a factor to be	 taken	intoaccount	 in  judging  of  its  reasonableness.	 As  alreadystated, the Ordinance has since come to an end, and has beenreplaced   by	a  comprehensive  tenancy   law.    In	 thecircumstances,	we  are	 unable to hold	 that  the  impugnedOrdinance  is void as being in contravention of Art. 19	 (1)(f).All  the contentions raised by the petitioners have  failed,and  the petitions should accordingly be dismissed,  but  inthe circumstances, without costs.Petitions dismissed.(1)  [1877] 94 U.S. 113 24 L. Ed. 77.(2)  [1950] S.C.R. 519, 526.623