PETITIONER:RADHAKISAN LAXMINARAYAN TOSHNIWAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:SHRIDHAR RAMCHANDRA ALSHI AND OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:23/04/1960BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1368		  1961 SCR  (1) 248 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1961 SC1747	 (15) R	    1969 SC 244	 (11,12) RF	    1991 SC1055	 (1,5)ACT:Pre-emption--Equity  if	 in  favour  of	 pre-emptor--WhetherMohamedon  Law	or personal law can  override  provision  ofstatute law--To defeat a claim of Pre-emption, whether it isa fraud, Berar Land Revenue Code, 1928.HEADNOTE:The  vendors executed an agreement for sale in respect of  acertain	 survey number which according to the agreement	 wasto be diverted to non-agricultural purposes and thereafter asale  deed  was to be executed.	 In pursuance  to  the	saidagreement  the	vendors	 applied  for  diversion  which	 wassanctioned  subject  to	 the payment of	 premium  and  otherconditions.   Before the sale deed was	executed  respondentNo.  1	Sridhar brought a suit for pre-emption	against	 theappellant  on the ground that he had a co-occupancy  in	 thesurvey	number in dispute being the owner of  the  adjoiningsurvey number.	The suit was decreed and on appeal the	HighCourt inter alia held that the transaction was a sale  whichwas  subject to pre-emption and that the failure to  executeand  register  a sale deed was a subterfuge  to	 defeat	 theright of pre-emption.The  question for decision was (1) whether a right  of	pre-emption	  had  accrued	to  respondent	Sridhar	 under	 theprovisions  of	the Berar Land Revenue Code, 1928,  and	 (2)whether	 the appellant was guilty of fraud in that in  orderto defeat the right of pre-emption the deed of sale was	 notexecuted, but for all intents and purposes the appellant hadbecome the owner of the property.Held,  that the right of pre-emption in Berar did not  arisefrom  Mohamedon	 Law and did not exist till it	was  broughtfrom Land laws of the Punjab or North West Provinces.	The-right  of  pre-emption	under the Berar	 Land  Revenue	Codeextended to transactions of sale, usufructuary mortgages andleases	for 15 years or more and right under  Mohamedon	 Lawapplies	 only  to  sales.   The	 word  sale  has  no   widerconnotation under s. 176 of the Berar Land Revenue Code thanit  has	 in  the  Transfer  of	Property  Act.	 After	 theapplication   of  Transfer  of	Property  Act  to  Berar   atransaction of sale could not be effective except through  aregistered instrument.The contract of sale in the instant case created no interestin favour of the appellant and the proprietary title did notvalidly	 pass  from the vendors to the appellant  and  untilthat  was completed no right to enforce	 pre-emption  arose.The transfer of249property, where the Transfer of Property Act applied, had tobe under the provisions of the Transfer of Property Act onlyand neither the Mohamedon Law nor any other personal law  oftransfer of property could override the statute law.   Thereare no equities in favour of a pre-emptor, whose sole objectis  to	disturb a valid transaction by virtue of  the  rightcreated by statute.Held, further that it is neither illegal nor fraudulent	 forthe  parties to a transfer, to avoid and defeat a claim	 forpreemption by all legitimate means and a person is  entitledto  steer  clear of the laws of pre-emption  by	 all  lawfulmeans.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE	 JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 167 of 1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and decree  datedNovember 22, 1951, of the former Nagpur High Court in SecondAppeal No. 720 of 1945.S.  N. Kherdekar, N. K. Kherdekar and A. G.  Ratna.  parkhi,for the appellant.N. C. Chatterjee, S. A. Sohni and Ganpat Rai, for respondentNo. 1.1960.	August 23.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyKAPUR  J.-This	is an appeal by special	 leave	against	 thejudgment  and decree of the High Court at Nagpur  passed  insecond appeal No. 1720 of 1945 confirming the decree of	 theDistrict  Judge.  In the suit out of which this	 appeal	 hasarisen the appellant was defendant No. 1 and the respondentswere  the  plaintiff  and defendant Nos. 2  and	 3  and	 thedispute relates to pre-emption on the ground of co-occupancywhich  falls under Ch.	XIV of the Berar Land Revenue  Code,1928, hereinafter called the Code.On  April  10, 1943, D. B. Ghaisas and	his  mother  Ramabaientered	 into two contracts of sale with the appellant,	 onein  regard  to	Survey Nos. 5, 14 and 16 for a	sum  of	 Rs.10,000 out of which Rs. 2,000 was paid as earnest money	 andthe other in regard to Survey No. 15/1 for Rs. 8,500 out  ofwhich Rs. 500 was paid as earnest money.  On April 16, 1943,the  vendors  executed a registered sale deed in  regard  toSurvey No,%. 5, 14 and 16 and the balance of the price    32250was  paid  before  the Registrar.  On April  22,  1943,	 thevendors executed a lease of Survey No. 15/1 for 14 years  infavour of Kisanlal and Sitaram who were defendant Nos. 2 and3  in  the  suit and are respondents Nos. 2 and	 3  in	thisappeal.	  On  April 24, 1943, the vendors executed  a  freshagreement  of  sale  in	 respect of  the  same	field  whichaccording  to  the  agreement was to  be  diverted  to	non-agricultural  purposes and thereafter a sale deed was to  beexecuted when it was so diverted.  The appellant was to	 paythe  costs  of	the diversion as well as  the  premium.	  Inpursuance  of  this  agreement the vendors  applied  to	 theDeputy	Commissioner, Akola, on August 12, 1943, for  diver-sion  under s. 58 of the Code and sanction was	accorded  onJanuary 22, 1944, subject to payment of premium of Rs. 9,222and  other  conditions.	  The appellant's case	is  that  asagreed	the vendors were paid this money for deposit and  itwas deposited in the Treasury under Challan No. 68 but thereis no finding in favour of the appellant although the  trialcourt  and the District Judge seem to have proceeded on	 thepremises  that	this amount was deposited but  in  the	cir-cumstances of this case it is not necessary to go into	thismatter.	 On February 1, 1944, the sale deed was executed  bythe vendors in favour of the appellant and the considerationin the sale deed was Rs. 17,722.On  September  11,  1943, i.e., before	the  sale  deed	 wasexecuted  the respondent, Sridhar, brought a suit  for	pre-emption against the appellant on the allegation that he	 hada  co-occupancy	 in the Survey number in  dispute-being	 theowner of Survey No. 15/2.  In the plaint it was alleged thatthe transaction of contract under the documents of April 10,1943,  and April 24, 1943, constituted a sale and  thereforeit  was subject to respondent Sridhar's prior right of	pre-emption.   It was also alleged that the price was not  fixedin  good  faith.  These allegations were denied.   Both	 thetrial  court  and the District Judge  held  that  respondentSridhar	 was  entitled to preempt and  determined  the	fairconsideration  to  be  Rs. 3,306.  The	suit  was  thereforedecreed	 by  the trial court and on appeal by  the  DistrictJudge.	The appellant took an appeal to the251High   Court  which  also  confirmed  the  decree   of	 thesubordinate courts.The  High  Court has held that the transaction	was  a	salewhich  was  subject to pre-emption and that the	 failure  toexecute and register a sale deed was a subterfuge to  defeatthe right of pre-emption.  It also hold that the proceedingstaken	for  conversion	 of  agricultural  land	 into	non-agricultural  land  were pendente lite and as the  right  ofpreemption  had	 already accrued by subsequent acts  of	 thevendors	 and the vendee it could not be defeated.  The	HighCourt  further held that as the order of the  Sub-DivisionalOfficer	 allowing conversion was a conditional one the	landcould not be said to have been irrevocably diverted to	non-agricultural purposes.	The decree of the subordinate courtswas  Confirmed and against that judgment the  appellant	 hascome to this court in appeal byspecial leave.The  first question for decision is whether a right of	pre-emption	  had  accrued	to  respondent	Sridbar	 under	 theprovisions of the Code.	 Previous to the cession of Berar bythe  Nizam of Hyderabad to the British Government  in  1853,the  Mohammedan	 rule of preemption was,  according  to	 oneview, in force in the province of Berar and it continued  tobe  so	till the Berar Land Revenue Code of 1896  came	intooperation  as  from  January 1, 1897.  On  the	other  hand,according  to  the  view of two writers on  the	 Berar	LandRevenue Code of 1896, the Mohammedan law origin of the rightof  pre-emption	 does not seem to be well-founded.   In	 theannotation of the Berar Land Revenue Code of 1896 Mr. E.  S.Reynolds  wrote	 in  1896 that although the  right  of	pre-emption in regard to agricultural land on occupancy  tenuresbad  been  recognised in Berar the right was  not  based  onMohammedan  law	 nor  did  it  appear  to  be  ancient	 andimmemorial  custom.   It seems to have been evolved  from  aruling of the Resident acting as the High Court based on  r.10  of the Sub-tenancy Rules.  According to  Hirurkar  (LandRevenue Code, pp. 126-127) also the right of pre-emption wasnot based on the Mohammedan law and did not originally existin Berar.  It252seems to have been brought from the land laws of the  Punjabor the North West Provinces.  In the Berar Settlement  Rulesand Berar Sub-tenancy Rules of 1866 the right of pre-emptionattached to relinquishment of shares in the case of ryots ofjoint  holdings	 and  applied  to  co-sharers  and  this  isdifferent from the rule of Mohammedan law.By  s. 205 of the Berar Land Revenue Code of 1896 the  rightof pre-emption arose when a co-occupant in any Survey numberwas   transferred  by  sale,  foreclosure  of  mortgage	  orrelinquishment in favour of a specified person for  valuableconsideration  and it vested in every other  co-occupant  ofthe  Survey number.  It will thus be seen that the right  ofpre-emption,  which under Mohammedan law attaches  to  salesonly,  was also applicable to foreclosure of  mortgages	 andrelinquishment for valuable consideration.  In the year 1907the  Transfer of Property Act (IV of 1882) was	extended  tothe province of Berar.	In 1928, the Code was re-enacted andit further extended the provisions in regard to	 pre-emptionin  Ch.	  XIV.	 Under s. 174 pre-emptive  rights  arise  inrespect	  of   transfers  of  unalienated  land	  held	 foragricultural purposes and before an occupant could  transferthe  whole  or any portion of his interest he  had  to	givenotice	of his intention to all other occupants.  Under	 ss.176  to 178, the right of pre-emption arises in the case  oftransfers  by way of sale, usufructuary mortgages, by  leasefor a period exceeding fifteen years or in the case of finaldecrees for foreclosure in a case of mortgage by conditionalsale.	Under a. 183 every occupant in Survey  number  shallhave the right to pre-empt the interest transferred by civilsuit.  Under s. 184 the right also arises in the case of  anexchange.   Thus  it  will be seen that the  right  of	pre-emption	 has  been by statute extended far beyond  what	 wascontemplated  under Mohammedan law and also beyond what	 wasrecognised  in the Berar Settlement Rules, Berar  SubtenancyRules and in the Code of 1896.The High Court held that the word sale in s. 176 of the Codehad a wider connotation than what it had under s. 54 of	 theTransfer of Property.  Act.  That253was  based  on the judgment of Vivian Bose, J. (as  he	thenwas),  in  Jainarayan  Ramgopal Marwadi	 v.  Balwant  MarotiShingore  (1) which had been approved in later judgments  ofthat court.  It was also of the opinion that the transactionin  dispute gave rise to the exercise of the right  of	pre-emption under the rule laid down in Begum v. Mohammad  Yakub(2)  and as in the instant case there was in reality a	salealthough  a registered sale deed had not been  executed	 theright  of  pre-emption could not be defeated by	 the  devicethat the vendors and the appellant adopted.According  to s. 2 of the Transfer of Property Act which  atthe relevant time was in operation in Berar s. 54 is not oneof  the sections within ch. 2 of that Act and  therefore  itoverrides Mohammedan law and the provisions of that section,being  exhaustive as to modes of transfer, govern all  salesin  that  province and no title passes on a sale  except  asprovided in that section.  Sale is there defined as transferof  ownership for a price paid or promised or part  paid  orpart promised and in the case of sale of tangible immoveableproperty  of  Rs. 100/- or more sale can only be made  by  aregistered  instrument.	 That is clear from the language  ofthe section itself where it is stated :-Section	 54 Sale how made:-" Such transfer, in the  case  oftangible  immoveable  property of the value of	one  hundredrupees	and upwards, or in the case of a reversion or  otherintangible   thing,  can  be  made  only  by  a	  registeredinstrument ".It was held by the Privy Council in Immudipattam  ThirugnanaS. O. Kondema Naik v. Peria Dorasami (3) which was a case ofa  zamindari estate that it could not be transferred  exceptby a registered instrument.  But it was submitted that	salewhen used in connection with the general law of	 pre-emptionis  not to be construed in the narrow sense in which  it  isused in the Transfer of Property Act and that that had	beenaccepted  by  the  Judicial  Committee	in  Sitaram  BhauraoDeshmukh v. Jiaul Hasan Sirajul Khan(4) where(1)  A.I.R. 1939 Nag. 35.(3)  (1900) 28 I.A. 46.(2)  (1894) I.L.R. 16 All. 344.(4)  (1921) 48 I.A. 475.254the  observations  of  Sir John Edge, C.  J.,  in  Begum  v.Mohammad Yakub (1) had been approved.In Sitaram Deshmukh's case (2) one of the two Mohammedan co-sharers	 in Bombay by an agreement dated October  14,  1908,agreed	to  sell his share to a Hindu.	 The  agreement	 wasexpressly subject to a right 'in the co-sharer to  pre-empt.The vendor informed his co-sharer that he had sold his shareand the latter thereupon, after the customary formalities onOctober 15, 1908, claimed to recover the share from the pur-chaser.	 The sale deed was executed on November 9, 1908, andthen  a suit was filed by the pre-emptor.  It was held	thatthe  co-sharer had the right to pre-empt in accordance	withthe intention expressed by the parties to the sale and	thatintention  was to be looked at to determine what  system  oflaw was to apply and what was to be taken to be the date  ofthe  sale  with	 reference to  which  the  formalities	wereperformed.  The question there really was as to what was  tobe  taken as a sale sufficient to justify the pre-emptor  inproceeding  at	once to the ceremonies and it  was  in	thatconnection  that the following observation of Sir John	Edgein Begum v. Mohammad Yakub (1) were quoted :-"  The	Chief  Justice, Sir John Edge,	there  observes,  inconnection  with  the  question	 whether  the  Transfer	  ofProperty  Act, which required registration, bad altered	 theprinciple of the Mohammedan Law, which determined what was asale for the purposes of the date in reference to which	 theceremonies should be performed; " I cannot think that it wasthe  intention of the Legislature in passing Act No.  IV  of1882 " (the Transfer of Property Act) " to alter directly orindirectly  the Mohammedan law of pre-emption as it  existedand was understood for centuries prior to the passing of ActIV of 1882 ".That at all events is in harmony with the conclusion come toby  the High Court at Bombay.  The conclusion is,  that	 youare  to look at the intention of the parties in	 determiningwhat system of law was to be taken as applying and what	 wasto be taken to be(1) (1894) I.L.R. 16 All. 344.	(2) (1921) 48 I.A. 475.255the date of the sale with reference to which the  ceremonieswere performed ".But it was argued for the respondents that the Privy Councilhad  not only approved the observation of Sir John Edge,  C.J., in Begum v. Mohammad Yakub(1) but has also approved	 theview  of the Calcutta High Court in Jadu Lal Sahu  v.  JankiKoer  (2).   That was a case from Bihar where the  right  ofpre-emption  under Mohammedan Law was judicially  recognisedin  regard  to Hindus also.  The question whether  the	salewhich  was  to be preempted was the one under s. 54  of	 theTransfer of Property Act or the one under the principles  ofMohmmedan Law does not seem to have been the point raised inthat  case.   It may be pointed out that both  in  the	casewhich went to the Privy Council (Sitaram Bhaurao Deshmukh v.Jaiul  Hasan Sirajul Khan (3) and the Calcutta case  JadulalSahu  v.  Janki	 Koer  (2)) sale  deeds	 were  executed	 andregistered  before  the suits to  enforce  pre-emption	werefiled.	 In the latter case the kabala was on July 28,	1904and the ceremonies were performed after that date.In  the Allahabad case, Begum v. Mohammad Yakub	 (1),  therewas  a	verbal	sale  of  a  house  which  was	followed  bypossession  but there was no registered document.  No  doubtthere the learned Chief Justice in the majority judgment didsay  that to import into the Mohammedan Law  of	 pre-emptionthe  definition	 of  the word "	 sale  "  with	restrictionscontained  in  s. 54 of the Transfer of Property  Act  wouldmaterially  alter  Mohammedan Law of preemption	 and  affordfraudulent  persons  to avoid the law of  pre-emption;	withthis  view Bannerji, J., did Dot agree.	 But in our  opinionthe transfer of property where the Transfer of Property	 Actapplies	 has, as was held by the Privy Council also,  to  beunder  the provisions of the Transfer of Property  Act	onlyand  Mohammedan Law of Transfer of Property cannot  overridethe  statute  law.  Mahmood, J., in Janki  v.  Girjadat	 (4)though in a minority (four judges took a different view) wasof the opinion that a valid and(1) (1894) I.L.R. 16 All. 344.(2) (1908) I.L.R. 35 Cal.  575.(3) (1921) 48 I.A. 475.(4) (1885) I.L.R. 7 All. 482.256perfected sale was a condition precedent to the exercise  ofthe  right  of	pre-emption and until  such  sale  had	beeneffected the right of pre-emption could not arise.Section	 17  read with s. 49 of the Registration  Act  showsthat a transfer of immoveable property where it is worth Rs.100  or more requires registration and unless so  registeredthe  document  does not affect the property  and  cannot  bereceived in evidence. The following observations of Mahmood,J., from Janki v.Girjadat (1) are very apposite:-	 "  If a valid and perfected sale were not a  condi-tion  precedent	 to the exercise of the	 pre-emptive  right,consequences would follow which the law of pre-emption	doesnot  contemplate  or  provide  for.   In  this	very   case,supposing   the	  so-called  vendor,   notwithstanding	 theapplication of the 15th August, 1882 (which cannot amount toan estoppel under the circumstances) continues or  recentersinto  possession  of the property it is clear that  the	 so-called vendee would have no, title under the so-called sale,to  enable him to recover possession-the transaction  being,by  reason  of	s.  54 of  the	Transfer  of  Property	Act,ineffectual  as	 transfer of ownership.	 The right  of	pre-emption	 being only a right of substitution, the  successfulpre-emptor's  title is necessarily the same as that  of	 thevendee	and  if the vendee took nothing under the  sale	 thepreemptor  can take nothing either; and it follows  that  ifthe  vendee could not oust the vendor, the  preemptor  couldnot  do so either, because in both cases the question  wouldnecessarily arise whether the sale was valid in the sense oftransferring  ownership.  Again, if notwithstanding  a	pre-emptive	 suit  such as this, the so-called vendor,  who	 hasexecuted an invalid sale which does not in law divest him ofthe  proprietary  right, subsequently executes a  valid	 andregistered sale-deed in favour of a co-sharer other than thepreemptor  or  in favour of a purchaser	 for  value  withoutnotice of the so-called contract for sale it is difficult toconceive how the preemptor, who has succeeded in a suit likethe  present, could resist the claim of such  purchaser	 forpossession of the property ".(1)  (1885) I.L.R. 7 All. 482.257Under  s. 54 of the Transfer of Property Act a contract	 forsale does not of itself create any interest in or charge  onimmoveable  property  and consequently the contract  in	 theinstant case created no interest in favour of the vendee andthe proprietary title did not validly pass from the  vendorsto  the	 vendee	 and until that was completed  no  right  toenforce pre-emption arose.  As we have said earlier whereverthe  Transfer of Property Act is in force Mohammedan Law  orany  other personal law is inapplicable to transfers and  notitle passes except in accordance with that Act.   Thereforewhen  the suit was brought there was no transfer by  way  ofsale which could be subject to preemption.It was next contended that the appellant was guilty of fraudin  that  in order to defeat the right of the  preemptors  adeed  of sale was not executed although as a matter of	factprice  had  been  paid, possession had passed  and  for	 allintents	 and purposes the appellant had become the owner  ofthe property and that conduct such as this would defeat	 thevery  law of preemption.  The right to pre-empt the sale  isnot  exercisable  till	a  pre-emptible	 transfer  has	beeneffected  and the right of pre-emption is not one  which  islooked	upon with great favour by the courts presumably	 forthe  reason  that it is in derogation of the  right  of	 theowner  to alienate his property.  It is neither illegal	 norfraudulent  for parties to a transfer to avoid and defeat  aclaim  for  pre-emption	 by all legitimate  means.   In	 thePunjab where the right of pre-emption is also statutory	 thecourts have not looked with disfavour at the attempts of thevendor and the vendee to avoid the accrual of right of	pre-emption by any lawful means and this view has been  acceptedby  this  court in Bishan Singh v. Khazan  Singh  (7)  whereSubba Rao, J., observed:-       "  The  right  being a very weak	 right,	 it  can  bedefeated  by  all  legitimate methods, such  as	 the  vendeeallowing  the  claimant of a superior or equal	right  beingsubstituted in his place ".In the present case the transaction of sale had not(7)  [1959] S.C.R. 878,884.    33258been  completed until February 1, 1944, when the  sale	deedwas  executed.	 Anything  done previous  to  it  could	 notordinarily  be said to be a fraud to deprive  a	 pre-emptor,from the exercise of his right of pre-emption.	There are noequities  in favour of a pre-emptor,   whose sole object  isto  disturb  a	valid transaction by virtue  of	 the  rightscreated in him by statute.  To defeat the law of pre-emptionby  any legitimate means is not fraud on the part of  eitherthe  vendor or the vendee and a person is entitled to  steerclear of the law of pre-emption by all lawful means.It was then submitted that the sale deed had as a matter  offact,  been  executed on February 1,  1944;  but  respondentSridhar brought the suit not on the cause of action  arisingon  the sale dated February 1, 1944, but on the	 transactionof  April  10, 1943, coupled with that of  April  24,  1943,which  being mere contracts of sale created no	interest  inthe  vendee  and  there	 was  no  right	 of  pre-emption  inrespondent  No.	 I which could be enforced under  the  Code.Mr. Chatterji urged that it did not matter if the sale	tookplace later and the suit was brought earlier but the suit aslaid down was one to pre-empt a sale of April 1943 when,  asa  matter of fact, no sale had taken place.   If  respondentSridhar	 had based his right of pre-emption on the basis  ofthe sale of February 1, 1944, the appellant would have takensuch defence as the law allowed him.  The defence in  regardto  the conversion of the land from agricultural  into	non-agricultural  site which negatives the right of	 pre-emptionwould  then have become a very important issue in  the	caseand the appellant would have adduced proper proof in  regardto it.	The right of pre-emption is a weak right and is	 notlooked	upon with favour by courts and therefore the  courtscould not go out of their way to help the pre-emptor.In our opinion the judgment of the High Court was  erroneousand  we	 would therefore allow this appeal,  set  aside	 thejudgment  and decree of the High Court and dismiss the	suitwith costs throughout.			  Appeal allowed.259