PETITIONER:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,HYDERABAD-DECCAN	Vs.RESPONDENT:MESSRS.	 VAZIR SULTAN & SONSDATE OF JUDGMENT:20/03/1959BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.KAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1959 AIR  814		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 375 CITATOR INFO : R	    1959 SC1352	 (8) RF	    1961 SC1579	 (31,34,39) R	    1963 SC1343	 (11,28,29) RF	    1964 SC 758	 (12) R	    1964 SC1653	 (6) RF	    1965 SC  65	 (34) RF	    1970 SC1811	 (6) F	    1977 SC 153	 (8) D	    1987 SC 500	 (34,36,42) RF	    1992 SC1495	 (31)ACT:Income Tax-Capital or income-Compensation for termination ofagency-Agency  terminable  at  will-Partial  termination  ofagency	Sterilisation  of  asset or  loss  of  Profit-IndianIncome-tax Act, 1922 (XI Of 1922).HEADNOTE:In 1931 the respondent, a registered firm, was appointed thesole selling agents and distributors for the Hyderabad Stateof376cigarettes manufactured by V (a limited company)/ under	 theterms of a resolution of the Board of Directors, the  agencycommission  being  a  discount of 2% on	 the  gross  sellingprice.	 In  1939 another arrangement was made	whereby	 therespondent's agency was extended to the rest of India.	By aresolution  dated  June	 16, 1950, the agency  of  1939	 wasterminated  on payment of Rs. 2,26,263 to the respondent  byway  of	 compensation, but the respondent  continued  to  bedistributors  for the Hyderabad State.	For  the  assessmentyear  1951-52 the Income-tax Officer included the  aforesaidsum  in	 the  respondent's total income and taxed  it  as  arevenue	 receipt  under	 the  head  of	"  business  ".	 Therespondent  claimed  that it did not carry  on	business  ofacquiring and working agencies, that the agency acquired  in1931  was  a capital asset of its business  of	distributingcigarettes  in	the Hyderabad State, that the  expansion  ofterritory  outside  the	 Hyderabad  State  in  1939  was  anaccretion to the capital asset already acquired by it,	thatthe resolution Of 1950 was in substance a termination of theagency	qua  territory	outside the  Hyderabad	State  whichresulted in the sterilisation of the capital asset qua	thatterritory,  that the sum of Rs. 2,19,343 received by  it  inthe  year  of  account was by way of  compensation  for	 thetermination of the agency outside Hyderabad State and  beingtherefore compensation for the sterilisation Pro tanto of  acapital	 asset	of its business was a  capital	receipt	 andtherefore was not liable to tax.  It was contended on behalfof  the Incometax Authorities that the sole  selling  agencywhich was granted by the company to the assessee in the year1931  was merely expanded as regards territory in  1939	 andwhat was done in 1950 was to revert to the old	arrangement,that  the  structure  or  the  profit-making  apparatus	  ofassessee's  business  was  not affected	 thereby,  that	 theexpansion  as  well  as the restriction	 of  the  assessee'sterritory  were	 in the ordinary course	 of  the  assessee'sbusiness  and were mere accidents of the business which	 theassessee  carried  on  and  that the  sum  of  Rs.  2,19,343received  by the assessee as and by way of compensation	 forthe restriction of the territory was a trading or an  incomereceipt and was therefore liable to tax.  It was also  urgedthat  the  agency agreement between the respondent  and	 thecompany	 was terminable at the will of the latter and so  itcould not be considered as an enduring asset.Held  (per Bhagwati and Sinha, JJ., Kapur,  J.,	 dissenting)that  the agency agreements in question did  not  constitutethe business of the respondent, but formed a capital  asset,being  the  profit  making  apparatus  of  its	business  ofdistribution  of the cigarettes manufactured by the  companywithin	the respective territories, and,  consequently,	 anypayment made by the company as compensation for	 terminatingthe  agency would only be a capital receipt in the hands  ofthe respondent.Commissioner  of  Income-tax v. Shaw Wallace &	Co.,  (1932)L.R. 59 I. A. 206, relied on.377Commissioner of Income Tax and Excess Profits Tax, Madras v.The South India Pictures Ltd., Karaikudi, [1956] S.C.R.	 223and Commissioner of Income-tax, Nagpur v. Rai Bahadur jairamValji, [1959] Supp. 1 S.C.R. 110, distinguished.Case law reviewed.Held, further, that the fact that the agency agreements wereterminable at will, or that only one of them was terminated,would  not make any difference because in either case,	whenthe  agency  was  terminated  and the  amount  was  paid  ascompensation  for  such	 termination  it  resulted  in	 thesterilisation  of  the capital asset Pro tanto	and  it	 wasreceived   as  a  capital  receipt  in	the  hands  of	 therespondent.Glenboig  Union Fire-Clay Co., Ltd. v. The Commissioners  ofInland Revenne, (1922) 12 Tax Cas. 427, relied on.Per  Kapur, J.-The true effect of the facts of	the  presentcase was that in 1939 the respondent's area of	distributionwas  increased from the State of Hyderabad to the  whole  ofIndia and in 1950 it was again reduced to the original	areaof  1931,  so that the respondent did not lose	its  agency.Consequently, the termination of the agency in 1950 did	 notaffect	the  trading  activities  of  the  respondent	and,therefore, viewed against the background of the respondent'sbusiness   Organisation	 and  profitmaking   structure	 thecompensation  for the termination of the agency was no	morethan that for the loss of future profit and commission.	 Thecompensation  therefore was in the nature of surrogatum	 andin this view of the matter it was revenue and not capital.The answer to the question, as applied to agencies,  whetherthe compensation is capital or revenue, is that it will be acapital	 receipt  if  it is received as	 the  value  of	 theagency,	 i.  e., it is a price of the business as if  it  isbrought to sale.  On the other hand it is revenue receipt ifit is paid in lieu of profits or commission.In  view of the decision The Commissioner of  Income-tax  v.The South India Pictures Ltd., Karaikudi, [1956] S.C.R. 223,and the observations of Bose, J., in the case of RaghuvanshiMills Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax, [1953] S.C.R. 177,the authority of Commissioner of Income-tax v. Shaw  WallaceJUDGMENT:considerably shaken.&    CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.  340  of1957.Appeal from the judgment and order dated November 29,  1954,of the Hyderabad High Court in Reference No. 234/5 of  1953-54.K.   N.	 Rajagopala Sastri, B. H. Dhebar and D.	 Gupta,	 forthe appellant.48378A.   V.	 Viswanatha Sastri, P. Rama Reddy and  R.  MahalingaIyer, for the respondents.1959.	March 20.  The Judgment of Bhagwati and Sinha,	JJ.,was  delivered	by  Bbagwati,  J.  Kapur,  J.,	delivered  aseparate Judgment.BHAGWATI,  J.-This appeal with a certificate from  the	HighCourt of Judicature at Hyderabad raises the question whetherthe sum of Rs. 2,19,343 received by the assessee in the yearof  account relevant for the assessment year 1951-52  was  arevenue receipt or a capital receipt.The facts leading up to this appeal may be shortly stated :The  assessee  is  a  registered  firm	consisting  of	fivebrothers  and  the wife of a deceased brother  having  equalshares in the profit and loss of the partnership.  The	firmwas appointed the sole selling agents and sole	distributorsfor  the Hyderabad State for the cigarettes manufactured  byM/s.   Vazir Sultan Tobacco Co., Ltd., under the terms of  a-resolution of the Board of Directors dated January 6, 1931."  Mr. Baker reported that an arrangement had been, come  tofor the time being whereby the firm of Vazir Sultan &  Sons,were  given the distributorship of " Charminar "  Cigaretteswithin the H. E. H. the Nizam's Dominions and that they wereallowed a discount of 2% on the gross selling price."No  written agreement was entered into between	the  Companyand   the  assessee  in	 respect  of  the  above   mentionedarrangement  nor  was  there  any  correspondence  exchangedbetween	 them in this behalf.  In 1939	another	 arrangementwas arrived at between the assessee and the company  wherebythe  assessee  was given a discount of 2% not  only  on	 thegoods sold in the Hyderabad State but on all the goods	soldin the Hyderabad State and outside Hyderabad State.  It doesnot appear that the Board of Directors passed any resolutionin  support  of this new arrangement nor was  any  agreementdrawn up between the parties incorporating the said new	 ar-rangement.379On  June  16,  1950,  the  Board  of  Directors	 passed	 thefollowing  resolution  reverting  to  the  old	 arrangementembodied in the resolution dated January 6,1931:-" The Chairman, having referred to resolution No. 24  passedat the board meeting held on 6-1-31 and having reported thatVazir Sultan & Sons had agreed to revert to the	 arrangementoutlined in that resolution with effect from 1-6-50, it	 wason the proposition of Mr. S. N. Bilgrami, seconded by Mr. N.B.  Chenoy  resolved that payment of the sum of	 O.  S.	 Rs.2,26,263 be made to Vazir Sultan & Sons by way of  compensa-tion,  Vazir Sultan & Sons, to pay D. B. Akki & Co., out  ofthat  amount  the  sum of O. S. Rs. 6,920  also	 by  way  ofcompensation.  Mr. Mohd.  Sultan & Mr. Hameed Sultan  statedthat,  as partners in the firm of Vazir Sultan & Sons,	theydid  not  take part in this resolution,	 although  they	 hadaccepted  on  behalf  of  Vazir Sultan	&  Sons,  the  termsthereof."The  sum  of Rs. 2,19,343 was accordingly  received  by	 theassessee in the year of account 1359 F.The  Income-tax Officer included this sum in the  assessee'stotal  income and taxed it as a revenue receipt.  On  appealthe  Appellate Assistant Commissioner held that the  sum  ofRs. 2,19,343 was not a revenue receipt but a capital receiptbeing  compensation for the loss of the agency and  as	suchnot  liable  to	 tax.	The  Income-tax	 Officer  (C   Ward)Hyderabad  thereupon preferred an appeal to  the  Income-taxAppellate  Tribunal,  Bombay, which held that the  said	 sumreceived by the assessee was a revenue receipt and liable totax.   The assessee then applied to the	 Appellate  Tribunalfor  a reference to the High Court under sec. 66(1)  of	 theIncome-tax  Act	 and the Tribunal accordingly  referred	 thefollowing question of law to the High Court:-"  Whether  the sum of O. S. Rs. 2,19,343  received  by	 theassessee  Firm	from Vazir Sultan Tobacco Co.,	Ltd.,  is  arevenue receipt or a capital receipt ?"The  High  Court  answered the question	 in  favour  of	 theassessee stating the question in a different form, viz.,380"  Whether  the sum of O. S. Rs. 2,19,343  received  by	 theassessee firm from Vazir Sultan Tobacco Co., Ltd., is liableto be taxed under the Indian Incometax Act?"  The  appellant thereafter applied to the High Court for  acertificate  of fitness which was granted by the High  Courton February 21, 1955, and hence this appeal.  The  question that falls to be determined is	whether	 thesum  which was in express terms of the resolution  mentionedby way of " compensation " for the loss of the agency was  arevenue	 receipt (trading receipt or an income	receipt)  ascontended  by the Revenue or a capital receipt as  contendedby the assessee.It  was	 urged	on behalf of the  appellant  that  the	soleselling	 agency	 which	was granted by the  Company  to	 theassessee  in  the year 1931 was merely expanded	 as  regardsterritory in 1939 and what was done in 1951 was to revert tothe old arrangement, and the structure or the profit-making,apparatus  of  the  assessee's	business  was  not  affectedthereby.   The expansion as well as the restriction  of	 theassessee's  territory  were in the ordinary  course  of	 theassessee's business and were mere accidents of the  businesswhich  the assessee carried on and the sum of  Rs.  2,19,343received  by the assessee as and by way of compensation	 forthe restriction of the territory was a trading or an  incomereceipt and was therefore liable to tax.It  was,  on  the other hand, contended	 on  behalf  of	 theassessee that it did not carry on business of acquiring	 andworking	 agencies,  that the agency acquired in 1931  was  acapital	 asset	of the assessee's business  of	distributingCharminar  cigarettes  in  the	Hyderabad  State,  that	 theexpansion  of territory outside the Hyderabad State in	1939was  an accretion to the capital asset already	acquired  bythe assessee, that the resolution of 1950 was in substance atermination  or	 cancellation of the  agency  qua  territoryoutside	  the	Hyderabad   State  and	 resulted   in	 thesterilisation of the capital asset qua that territory,	thatthe sum of381Rs. 2,19,343 received by the assessee in the year of accountwas   by  way  of  compensation	 for  the   termination	  orcancellation of the agency outside Hyderabad State and beingtherefore compensation for the sterilisation pro tanto of  acapital	 asset	of  the assessee's business  was  a  capitalreceipt and was therefore not liable to tax.The  question  whether	a particular receipt  is  a  revenuereceipt or a capital receipt or a particular expenditure  isa  capital expenditure or a - revenue expenditure  is  besetwith  considerable difficulty and one finds the Revenue	 andthe  assessee ranged on different sides taking up  alternatecontentions as it suits their purposes.	 As was observed  byLord Macmillan in Van Den Berghs, Limited v. Clark(1) :-"  The	reported cases fall into two  categories,  those  inwhich the subject is found claiming that an item of  receiptought not to be included in computing his profits and  thosein  which  the	subject is found claiming that	an  item  ofdisbursement  ought  to	 be included  among  the  admissibledeductions in computing his profits.  In the former case theCrown  is  found  maintaining that the item is	an  item  ofincome;	  in  the  latter,  that  it  is  a  capital   item.Consequently the argumentative position alternates accordingas it is an item of receipt or an item of disbursement	thatis  in	question, and the taxpayer and the Crown  are  foundalternately arguing for the restriction or the expansion  ofthe conception of income.  "The question has therefore to be dealt with irrespective  ofthe one stand or the other which is taken by the Revenue  orthe assessee and the Court has got to determine what is	 thetrue character of the receipt or the expenditure.In  the	 case of the Commissioner of Income-tax	 and  ExcessProfits	 Tax,  -Madras	v. The South  India  Pictures  Ltd.,Karaikudi (2) this Court endorsed the following statement ofLord Macmillan in Ven Den Berghs, Ltd. v. Clark (1):"  That though in general the distinction between an  incomeand a capital receipt was well recognised(1) (1935) 19 Tax Cas. 390, 429.(2) [1956] S.C.R. 223, 228.382and  easily applied, cases did arise where the item  lay  onthe  border  line and the problem had to be  solved  on	 theparticular  facts of each case.	 No infallible criterion  ortest can be or has been laid down and the decided cases	 areonly helpful in that they indicate the kind of consideration-which	may relevantly be borne in mind in  approaching	 theproblem.   The	character of the payment received  may	varyaccording to the circumstances.	 Thus the amount received asconsideration for the sale of a plot of land may  ordinarilybe a capital receipt but if the business of the recipient isto buy and sell lands, it may well be his income.  " While	considering the case law it is necessary to bear  inmind  that the Indian Income-tax Act is not in pari  materiawith  the British Income Tax statutes, it is less  elaboratein   many  ways,  subject  to  fewer  refinements   and	  inarrangement  and  language  it	differs	 greatly  from	 theprovisions  with  which the courts in England  have  had  todeal.  Little help can therefore be gained by attempting  toconstrue the Indian Income-tax Act in the light of decisionsbearing	 upon the meaning of the Income-tax  legislation  inEngland.  But on analogous provisions, fundamental  conceptsand general principles unaffected by the specialities of theEnglish	 Income-tax  statutes, English	authorities  may  beuseful	guides. (Vide the observations of the Privy  Councilin the Commissioner of Income-tax v. Shaw Wallace & Co. (1);Gopal Saran Narain Singh v. Commissioner of Income-tax	(2);Commissioner  of Income-tax, Bombay Presideney and  Aden  v.Chunnilal  B. Mehta (3 ) and Raja Bahadur  Kamakshya  NarainSingh of Ramgarh v. C. I. T., Bihar & Orissa (4).Before	embarking  upon	 a  discussion	of  the	  principlesemerging  from	the  various  decisions	 bearing  upon	thisquestion, it is necessary to advert to an argument which wasaddressed to us by the learned counsel for the appellant  inconnection   with   the	 Privy	Council	 decision   in	 theCommissioner of Income-tax v. Shaw Wallace & Co. (1).	Thatcase was relied upon by the(1)  (1932) L.R. 59 I.A. 206, 212.(2)  (1935) L.R. 62 I.A. 207, 214.(3)  (1938) L.R. 65 I A. 332, 349.(4)  (1943) L.R. 70 I.A. 180, 188.383Appellate  Assistant  Commissioner  and the  High  Court  asdeterminative of the question in favour of the assessee	 andit was strenuously urged before us on behalf of the  Revenuethat the authority of that decision was considerably  shakennot only by the later privy Council decision in Raja BahadurKamakshya Narain Singh v. C. I. T., Bihar and Orissa (1) butalso by a decision of this Court in Raghuvansi Mills Ltd. v.Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay City (2).It  may be remembered that the term " income was  understoodby  their Lordships of the Privy Council in  Shaw  Wallace'sCase(3)	 to connote a periodical monetary return  coming  inwith  some  sort of regularity or expected  regularity	fromdefinite  sources.   The source may not necessarily  be	 onewhich is expected to be continuously productive, but it mustbe  one whose object is the production of a definite  returnexcluding anything in the nature of a mere windfall.  Incomewas  thus likened pictorially to the fruit of a tree or	 thecrop  of a field (lbid p. 212).	 This concept of " income  "was  adopted and in substance repeated by the Privy  Councilin  Gopal  Saran Narain Singh's Case (4) at p.	213,  thoughLord  Russell  of Killowen pronouncing the  opinion  of	 thePrivy  Council	pithily	 remarked that	anything  which	 canproperly  be  described as income is taxable under  the	 Actunless	properly exempted.  The case of Raja  Bahadur  Kama-kshya  Narain  Singh (1)struck a discordant  note  and	LordWright	delivering the opinion of the Board observed  at  p.192  that it was not in their Lordships' opinion correct  toregard	as  an	essential element in any of  these  or	likedefinitions a reference to the analogy of fruit or  increaseor  sowing or reaping or periodical harvests and  that	suchpicturesque  similes  cannot  be  used	to  limit  the	truecharacter  of  income  in  general.   Lord  Wright   furtherobserved at p. 194:"  Its applicability may in particular cases differ  becausethe  circumstances, though similar in some respects, may  bedifferent in others.  Thus the profit realised on a sale  ofshares may be capital if the seller(1)  (1943) L.R. 70 I.A. 180, 188.   (2)     [1953]   S.C.R.177.(3)  (1932) L.R. 59 I. A. 206, 212.  (4)     (1935) L.R.  62I.A. 207, 2I4.384is an ordinary investor changing his securities, but in someinstances,  at any rate, it may be income if the  seller  ofthe shares is an investment or an insurance company.  Incomeis  not	 necessarily the recurrent return  from	 a  definitesource,	 though it is generally of that character.   Income,again  may consist of a series of separate receipts,  as  itgenerally  does in the case of professional  earnings.	 Themultiplicity of forms which " income " may assume is  beyondenumeration.   Generally,  however, the mere fact  that	 theincome flows from some capital assets, of which the simplestillustration  is the purchase of an annuity for a lump	sum,does  not  prevent  it from being  income,  though  in	someanalogous  cases  the true view may be	that  the  payments,though spread over a period, are not income, but instalmentspayable at specified future dates of a purchase price. (VideSecretary of State for India v. Scoble) (1).  This	Court  in Raghuvansi Mill's Case (2)  also  observedthat the definition of " income " in Shaw Wallaces Case	 (3)as a periodical monetary return coming in with some sort  ofregularity or expected regularity from definite sources mustbe read with reference to the particular facts of that case. It  was  therefore  urged on behalf  of  the  Revenue	thatperiodicity  or	 recurring nature of the receipt was  not  anecessary ingredient of " income " nor was the existence  ofa material external source capable of producing a  recurrentreturn necessary before a receipt could be treated as incomechargeable to tax.  We  are not unmindful of this criticism of the  definitionof " income " adopted by the- Privy Council in Shaw  Wallace&  Co.'s Case (3) and the concept of " income " may have  tobe thus revised.  But even granting the proposition that  iscontended  for by the Revenue the result is no different  inthe present case because the head of income under which	 theassessee  before  us has been assessed to  Income-tax  is  "business  "  a	definite source from  which  the  income  inquestion sought to be assessed is alleged to have been(1) [1903] A.C. 299.	       (2) [1953] S.C.R. 177.(3) (1932) L.R. 59 I.A. 206, 212.385derived	 and whether it is of a recurring  or  non-recurringnature	therefore  does	 not enter into	 the  picture.	 Theexemption from liability in regard to that income is claimedby  the assessee, not on the ground of the applicability  ofs. 4(3)(vii) of the Income-tax Act but on the ground that itis  not	 a  revenue receipt but	 a  capital  receipt,  beingcompensation  paid  by the Company to the assessee  for	 thetermination  or	 cancellation of the  agency  qua  territoryoutside	 Hyderabad State, a capital asset of the  assessee'sbusiness.What  then are the considerations which have to be borne  inmind in determining these vexed questions ?  The distinctionbetween a capital expenditure and a revenue expenditure cameup  for	 consideration	before this Court  in  Assam  BengalCement	Co., Ltd. v. The Commissioner of  -Income-tax,	WestBengal (1) and this Court laid down certain criteria for thedetermination	as  to	whether	 a  particular	 expenditureincurred  by  the assessee was a capital  expenditure  or  arevenue	 expenditure.	We need not therefore  discuss	thatproblem any further.As  to	whether	 a particular receipt in  the  hands  of  anassessee is a capital receipt, or a revenue receipt, we	 hadoccasion to consider the same in the Commissioner of Income-tax  and  Excess  Profits Tax, Madras  v.  The	South  IndiaPictures Ltd., Karaikudi (2).  The assessee there carried onthe  business of distribution of films.	 In  some  instancesthe  assessee  used to produce or purchase  films  and	thendistribute the same for exhibition in different cinema hallsand  in other cases used to advance monies to  producers  offilms produced with the help of monies so advanced.  In	 thecourse	of such business it advanced monies to	the  JupiterPictures for the production of these films and acquired	 therights	of  distribution  of the  three	 films	under  threeagreements  in writing dated September, 1941, July 1942	 andMay 1943.  In the accounting year ending March 31, 1946, andin the previous years the assessee had exploited its  rightsof distribution of the three pictures.	On October 31, 1945,the(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 972.     (2) [1956] S.C.R. 223, 228.49386assessee and the Jupiter Pictures entered into an  agreementcancelling the three agreements relating to the distributionrights in respect of the three films and in consideration ofsuch cancellation the assessee was paid Rs. 26,000 in all bythe  Jupiter Pictures as compensation.	It was held  by	 theMajority of this Court that the sum received by the assesseewas a revenue receipt (and not a capital receipt) assessableunder the Indian Income-tax Act inasmuch as:-(1)  the sum paid to the assessee was not truly compensationfor  not carrying on its business but was a sum paid in	 theordinary course of business. to adjust the relation  betweenthe assessee and the producers of the films;(2)the	agreements  which were cancelled were  by  no  meansagreements on which the whole trade of the assessee had	 forall  practical purposes been built and the payment  receivedby  the assessee was not for the loss of such a	 fundamentalasset  as was the ship managership of the assessee  in	BarrCrombie	 & Co., Ltd. v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue	 (1)and(3)one	 could	not  say  that	the   cancelled	  agreementsconstituted   the  framework  or  whole	 structure  of	 theassessee's profit-making apparatus in the same sense as	 theagreement  between  the	 two margarine dealers	in  Van	 DenBerghs Ltd. v. Clark (2) was.The  criteria  laid  down  by  the  majority  judgment	 fordetermining  whether the particular payment received by	 theassessee  was  income  or was to be regarded  as  a  capitalreceipt were:(i)whether  the agreements in question were entered into  bythe  assessee in the course of carrying on its	business  ofdistribution of films, and(ii) whether  the termination of the agreements in  questioncould  be  said to have been brought about in  the  ordinarycourse of business;so that money received by the assessee as a result of or  inconnection  with  such termination of  agreements  could  beregarded  as having been received in the ordinary course  ofits business and therefore a trading receipt.(1)  (1945)  26 Tax Cas. 406.  (2) (1935) 19 Tax  Cas.	390,429.387A  similar  question  arose in	Commissioner  of  Incometax,Nagpur	v.  Rai	 Bahadur Jairam Valji(1)  where	 this  Courtfollowed  the  same line of reasoning.	The  question  thererelated to a sum of Rs. 2,50,000 received by the assessee asdamages	 or compensation for the premature termination of  acontract  dated May 9, 1940.  The High Court on a  referenceunder  s. 66(1) of the Income-tax Act had held that the	 sumwas  a capital receipt in the hands of the assessee, and  assuch not liable to be taxed.  It was contended on behalf  ofthe  Revenue  that the contract dated May 9, 1940,  was	 oneentered	 into by the assessee in the ordinary course of	 hisbusiness,  that the sum of Rs. 2,50,000 was paid  admittedlyas solatium for the cancellation of that contract, and	thatit  was	 therefore a revenue receipt.  The assessee  on	 theother  hand contended that the contract dated May  9,  1940,was for a period of 25 years of which more than 23 years hadstill  to  run	at the time of the settlement,	and  it	 wastherefore   capital  in	 character.   Moreover,	  the	truecharacter  of  the  agreement  was  that  it  brought	intoexistence an arrangement which would enable him to carry  ona  business and was not itself any business and any  paymentmade for the termination of such an agreement was a  capitalreceipt.This  Court on the facts and circumstances of the case	cameto the conclusion that the contract in question was  enteredinto by the assessee in the ordinary course of business	 andwas  one entered into in the carrying on of  that  business.The arrangement ultimately entered into between the  partiesin regard to the payment of the said sum of Rs. 2,50,000 wasaccordingly  treated as an adjustment made in  the  ordinarycourse of business and the receipt was therefore held to  bean  amount  paid  as  solatium for  the	 cancellation  of  acontract entered into by a person in the ordinary course  ofbusiness.In the course of the discussion reference was made to agencyagreements and this Court observed:" In an agency  contract,the  actual  business consists in the dealings	between	 theprincipal and his(1)  [1959] Supp. 1 S.C.R. 110; 35 I.T.R. 148, 163.388customers, and the work of the agent is only to bring  aboutthat  business.	  In other words, what he does	is  not	 thebusiness  itself  but  something  which	 is  intimately	 anddirectly  linked  up with it.  It is therefore	possible  toview  the  agency as the apparatus which leads	to  businessrather	than  as the business itself on the analogy  of	 theagreements in Van Den Berghs Ltd. v. Clark (1).	  Consideredin  this  light, the agency right can be held to be  of	 thenature	of a capital asset invested in business.   But	thiscannot	be said of a contract entered into in  the  ordinarycourse of business.  Such a contract is part of the businessitself,	 not anything outside it as is the agency,  and	 anyreceipt on account of such a contract can only be atrading receipt."This  Court  further emphasised the distinction	 between  anagency agreement and a contract made in the usual course  ofbusiness  and  pointed out that the agreement could  in	 anyevent  be  regarded as a capital asset of  the	agent  whichwould be saleable.  Such a concept would certainly be out ofplace  with  reference	to a contract entered  into  in	 thecourse	of  business  and  any payment	made  for  the	non-performance or cancellation of such a contract could only bedamages	 or Compensation and could not, in law or  fact,  beregarded as an assignment of the rights under the  contract.Once it was found that the contract was entered into in	 theordinary  course of business, any compensation received	 forits termination would be a revenue receipt, irrespective  ofwhether its performance was to consist of a single act or  aseries of acts spread over a period.While  thus indicating that an agency could be treated as  acapital	 asset	of the business this  Court  guarded  itselfagainst	  its	being  understood  as  deciding	  that	 thecompensation  paid  for cancellation of an  agency  contractmust  always and as a matter of law be held to be a  capitalreceipt and it made the following pertinentobservations :-" Such a conclusion will be directly opposed to the decisionin Kelsall's case (2) and the Commissioner(1) [1935] 19 Tax Cas. 390,429.(2) (1938) 21 Tax Cas. 608.389of  Income-tax and Excess Profits Tax, Madras v.  The  SouthIndia  Pictures	 Ltd., Karaikudi (1).  The fact is  that  anagency	contract which has the character of a capital  assetin  the	 hands of one person may assume the character  of  atrading	 receipt  in the hands of another, as  for  example,when  the  agent  is  found to make  a	trade  of  acquiringagencies  and  dealing with them.  The	principle  was	thusstated	by Romer, L. J., in Golden Horse Shoe (New) Ltd.  v.Thurgood (2) : The  determining factor must be the nature of the trade  inwhich  the  asset  is  employed.   The	land  upon  which  amanufacturer  carries on his business is part of  his  fixedcapital.   The	land  with which a  dealer  in	real  estatecarries on his business is part of his circulating  capital.The  machinery with which a manufacturer makes the  articlesthat  he sells is part of his fixed capital.  The  machinerythat  a	 dealer in machinery buys and sells is part  of	 hiscirculating  capital,  as is the coal that a  coal  merchantbuys and sells in the course of his trade.  So, too, is	 thecoal  that  a  manufacturer of gas buys and  from  which  heextracts his gas. Therefore when a question arises whether apayment	 of compensation for termination of an agency  is  acapital or a revenue receipt, it would have to be consideredwhether the agency was in the nature of capital asset in thehands  of the assessee, or whether it was only part  of	 hisstock-in-trade.	  Thus	in  Barr  Crombie  &  Sons  Ltd.  v.Commissioners of Inland Revenue (3), the agency was found tobe  practically the sole business of the assessee,  and	 thereceipt	 of  compensation on account of it  was	 accordinglyheld  to be a capital receipt, while in Kelsall's  case	 theagency which was terminated was one of several agencies heldby  the	 assessee  and	the  compensation  amount   receivedtherefor was held to be a revenue receipt, and that was alsothe  case  in  the Commissioner	 of  Income-tax	 and  ExcessProfits Tax, Madras v.	 The  South  India  Pictures   Ltd.,Karaikudi (1)."We  may in this context also note the  further	observationsmade by this Court:-(1) [1956] S.C.R. 223 228,  (2) (1933) 18 Tax Cas. 280, 300.(3) (1945) 26 Tax Cas. 406.390But  apart  from these and similar instances, it  might,  ingeneral,  be  stated  that payments made  in  settlement  ofrights under a trading contract are trading receipts and areassessable  to revenue.	 But where a person who is  carryingon  business  is  prevented from doing	so  by	an  externalauthority  in  the  exercise of a  paramount  power  and  isawarded	 compensation  therefor, whether that receipt  is  acapital	 receipt  or  a revenue	 receipt  will	depend	uponwhether it is compensation for injury inflicted on a capitalasset or on a stock-in-trade.  The decision in the  GlenboigUnion  Fireclay	 Co., Ltd. v. The  Commissioners  of  InlandRevenue	 (1) applies to this category of cases.	 There,	 theassessee  was  carrying on business in	the  manufacture  offire-clay  goods  and  had,  for  the  performance  of	thatbusiness,  acquired  a	fire  clay  field  on  lease.	 TheCaledonian  Railway which passed over the  field  prohibitedthe  assessee  from excavating the field  within  a  certaindistance  of  the rails, and paid compensation	therefor  inaccordance with the provisions of a statute.  It was held bythe  House of Lords that this was a capital receipt and	 wasnot  taxable on the ground that the compensation was  reallythe  price  paid  " for sterilising  the  asset	 from  whichotherwise profit might have been obtained." That is to	say,the  fire  clay field was a capital asset which	 was  to  beutilised   for	 the  carrying	on  of	 the   business	  ofmanufacturing  fire  clay goods and when  the  assessee	 wasprohibited  from  exploiting  the field, it  was  an  injuryinflicted  on  his  capital  asset.   Where,  however,	 thecompensation is referable to injury inflicted on the  stock-in-trade,   it	would  be  a  revenue  receipt.	 (Vide	 theCommissioners of Inland Revenue v. Newcastle Breweries	Ltd.(2)."It  is no doubt true that this Court was not concerned	withany  agency  agreement in the last mentioned  case  and	 theobservations made by this Court there were by way of  obiterdicta.	 The  obiter  dicta  of	 this  Court,  however,	 areentitled  to  considerable weight and we on our	 part  fullyendorse	 the  same.   The earlier case	of  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax and Excess Profits Tax,(1) (1922) 12 Tax Cas. 427.(2) (1927) 12 Tax Cas. 927.391Madras	v.  The South India Pictures Ltd. (1) was  indeed  acase  where the assessee had entered into agency  agreementsfor the exploitation of the three films in question, but  inthat case the conclusion was reached that entering into suchagency agreements for acquiring the films was a part of	 theassessee's  business and the agreements in  question  havingbeen entered into by the assessee in the ordinary course  ofbusiness  the  cancellation of those agreements was  also  apart of the assessee's business and was resorted to in orderto adjust the relation between the assessee and the producerof those films.It  would  not be profitable to review the  various  Englishdecisions  bearing  on	this  question	as  they  have	beenexhaustively reviewed in the above decisions of this  Court.The  position  as  it emerges on a  consideration  of  theseauthorities  may now be summarised.  The first	question  toconsider  would be whether the agency agreement in  questionfor  cancellation of which the payment was received  by	 theassessee  was  a capital asset of the  assessee's  business,constituted  its  profit  making apparatus and	was  in	 thenature	of  its	 fixed capital or was  a  trading  asset  orcirculating  capital or stock-in-trade of his business.	  Ifit was the former the payment received would be	 undoubtedlya capital receipt; if, however, the same was entered into bythe assessee in the ordinary course of business and for	 thepurpose of carrying on that business, it would fall into thelatter category and the compensation or payment received forits  cancellation would merely be an adjustment made in	 theordinary  course  of business of the  relation	between	 theparties and would constitute a trading or a revenue  receiptand not a capital receipt.We  may	 perhaps  appropriately refer at this  stage  to  anaspect	of this question which was canvassed before us	withsome  force  and  it  was  that	 there	was  no	 enforceableagreement  as  between the assessee and	 the  Company  whichcould  be  made	 the subject-matter of	a  legal  claim	 fordamages or compensation at his instance in the event of	 itstermination  or	 cancellation by the  Company.	 The  agencyagreement was(1)  [1956] S.C.R 223, 228.392terminable  at	the will of the Company and if	the  Companychose  to do so the assessee had no remedy at law in  regardto  the same.  It is, however, to be remembered that in	 allthese cases one has really got to look to the nature of	 thereceipt	 in  the hands of the assessee irrespective  of	 anyconsideration as to what was actuating the mind of the otherparty.	As Rowlatt, J., observed in the case of Chibbett  v.Joseph Robinson & Sons (1):- "As  Sir - Richard Henn Collins said, you must not look  atthe point of view of the person who pays and see whether  heis compellable to pay or not; you have to look at the  pointof  view  of  the person who receives,	to  see	 whether  hereceives it in respect of his services, if it is a  questionof  an	office	and  in respect of his trade,  if  it  is  aquestion of trade and so on.  You have to look at his  pointof  view to see whether he receives it in respect  of  thoseconsiderations.	 This is perfectly true.  But when you	lookat that question from what is described as the point of viewof  the recipient, that sends you back again,  looking,	 forthat  purpose, to the point of view of the payer;  not	fromthe  point of view of compellability or liability, but	fromthe point of view of a person inquiring what is this paymentfor;  and you have to see whether the maker of	the  paymentmakes  it for the services and the receiver receives it	 forthe services."The learned Judge further observed at p. 61"  But at any rate it does seem to me that compensation	 forloss of an employment which need not continue, but which waslikely to continue, is not an annual profit within the scopeof  the	 Income-tax  at	 all."	(See  also  W.	A.  Guff  v.Commissioner  of  Incometax,  Bombay  City)  (2)  where	 thequestion whether the amount paid was compensation for  whichthe employer was liable or was a payment made ex-gratia	 wasconsidered  immaterial	for the purpose of the	decision  inthat case).It was also urged that the agency in question before us	 wasnot  an enduring asset of the assessee's business as in	 itsvery nature it was terminable at will,(1) (1924) 9 Tax Cas. 48, 60.(2) [1957] 31 I.T.R. 826.393there  being  no agreement or arrangement for a	 fixed	termbetween the assessee and the Company.  On the analogy of thetest  laid  down by this Court in Assam Bengal	Cement	Co.,Ltd.  v.  The Commissioner of Income-tax,  West	 Bengal	 (1)while	considering  the  distinction  between	 a   capitalexpenditure  and a revenue expenditure, it was	argued	thatthe  agency  agreement in question could not  be  a  capitalasset of the assessee's business in so far as it was not  ofan  enduring  character and the compensation  paid  for	 itstermination could not therefore be a capital receipt in	 thehands  of the assessee.	 Whatever be the position,  however,in  the case of the acquisition of an asset by the  assesseeby  making  a  disbursement for the purchase  of  the  same,similar	 considerations would not necessarily  operate	whenthe  amount is received by the assessee for the	 terminationor cancellation of an asset of his business.  The  characterof such a receipt would indeed have to be determined  havingregard	to  the	 fact whether the asset in  question  was  acapital	 asset of the business or a trading  asset  thereof.For  this purpose it will be immaterial whether	 that  assetwas of an enduring character or was one which was terminableat will.We  have  therefore got to determine whether the  agency  inquestion  before  us was a capital asset of  the  assessee'sbusiness.  One of the relevant considerations in the  matterof such determination has been whether the asset was in	 thenature	of  fixed  capital or  constituted  the	 circulatingcapital or stock-in-trade of the assessee's business.	Thisquestion  was  thus dealt with by Viscount Haldane  in	JohnSmith & Sons v. Moore (2) :-" But what was the nature of what the Appellant here had  todeal  with  ? He had bought as part of the  capital  of	 thebusiness  his  father's	 contracts.  These  enabled  him  topurchase coal from the colliery owners at what we were	toldwas a very advantageous price, about fourteen shillings	 perton.  He was able to buy at this price because the right  todo so was part of the(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 972.(2) (1921) 12 Tax Cas. 266, 282.50394assets	of the business.  Was it circulating capital  ?	  MyLords,	it  is	not  necessary to  draw	 an  exact  line  ofdemarcation  between fixed and circulating  capital.   SinceAdam Smith drew the distinction in the Second Book of his  "Wealth	of  Nations ", which appears in the chapter  on	 theDivision  of  Stock, a distinction which  has  since  becomeclassical,  economists have never been able to	define	muchmore precisely what the line of demarcation is.	 Adam  Smithdescribed fixed capital as what the owner turns to profit bykeeping	 it  in his own possession, circulating	 capital  aswhat  he makes profit of by parting with it and	 letting  itchange	masters.   The	latter capital	circulates  in	thissense.	 My Lords, in the case before us the  Appellant,  ofcourse, made profit with circulating capital, by buying coalunder the contracts he had acquired from his father's estateat the stipulated price of fourteen shillings and  resellingit  for more, but he was able to do this simply	 because  hehad acquired, among other assets of his business,  includingthe  goodwill,	the contracts in question.  It	was  not  byselling	 these	contracts, of limited duration	though	theywere, it was not by parting with them to other masters,	 butby  retaining  them,  that he was able to  employ  his	cir-culating capital in buying under them.	I am accordingly  ofopinion	 that though they may have been of  short  duration,they were none the less part of his fixed capital ".In  the	 case before us the agency agreement in	 respect  ofterritory  outside the Hyderabad State was as much an  assetof  the assessee's business as the agency  agreement  withinthe Hyderabad State and though expansion of the territory ofthe agency in 1939 and the restriction thereof in 1950 couldvery  well  be treated as grant of additional  territory  in1939  and the withdrawal thereof in 1950, both these  agencyagreements constituted but one employment of the assessee asthe sole selling agents of the Company.	 There is nothing onthe  record  to show that the acquisition of  such  agenciesconstituted  the  assessee's business or that  these  agencyagreements were entered into by the assessee in the carryingon of any such business.395The agency agreements in fact formed a capital asset of	 theassessee's  business worked or exploited by the assessee  byentering  into contracts for the sale of the "	charminar  "cigarettes  manufactured  by  the  Company  to	the  variouscustomers  and dealers in the respective territories.	Thisasset  really  formed  part  of the  fixed  capital  of	 theassessee's  business It did not constitute the	business  ofthe assessee but was the means by which the assessee enteredinto the business transactions by way of distributing  thosecigarettes  within  the respective territories.	  It  reallyformed	 the  profit-making  apparatus	of  the	  assessee'sbusiness  of distribution of the cigarettes manufactured  bythe Company.  If it was thus neither circulating capital norstock-in-trade of the business carried on by the assessee itcould  certainly not be anything but a capital asset of	 itsbusiness  and any payment made by the Company as and by	 wayof compensation for terminating or cancelling the same wouldonly be a capital receipt in the hands of the assessee.It would not make the slightest difference for this  purposewhether	 either	 one or both of the agency  agreements	wereterminated or cancelled by the Company.	 The position  wouldbe  the	 same  in (either event.  As was  observed  by	LordWrenbury  in the Glenboig Union Fire-Clay Co., Ltd.  v.	 TheCommissioners of Inland Revenne (1) at p. 465:-"  The matter may be regarded from another point Of  view  ;the  right to work the area in which the working was  to  beabandoned  was part of the capital asset consisting  of	 theright  to work the whole area demised. Had  the	 abandonmentextended to the whole area all subsequent profit by  workingwould,	of  course  have been impossible  but  it  would  beimpossible  to contend that the compensation would be  otherthan  capital.	 It was the price paid for  sterilising	 theasset from which otherwise profit might have been  obtained.What is true of the whole must be equally true of part."If  both the agency agreements, viz., one for the  territorywithin	the Hyderabad State and the other for the  territoryoutside Hyderabad State had been(1)  (1922) 12 Tax Cas. 427.396terminated  or	cancelled on payment  of  compensation,	 thewhole  profit-making  structure of the	assessee's  businesswould  have  been destroyed.  Even if one  of  these  agencyagreements  was	 thus  terminated, it would  result  in	 thedestruction of the profit-making apparatus or  sterilisationof the capital asset pro tanto and if in the former case thereceipt in the hands of the assessee would only be a capitalreceipt,   equally  would  it  be  a  capital	receipt	  ifcompensation   was   obtained  by  the	assessee   for	 thetermination   or  cancellation	of  one	 of   these   agencyagreements  which formed a capital asset of  the  assessee'sbusiness.The  facts of the present case are closely similar to  thosewhich  obtained	 in the Commissioner of	 Incometax  v.	ShawWallace & Co. (1). In that case also the assessees had for anumber	of years prior to 1928 acted as distributing  agentsin India of the Burma Oil Company, and the Anglo-Persian OilCompany,  but had no formal agreement with  either  Company.In  or	about the year 1927 the two companies  combined	 anddecided	 to make other arrangements for the distribution  oftheir products.	 The assessee's agency of the Burma  Companywas accordingly terminated on December 31, 1927, and that ofthe  AngloPersian Company on June 30, following.  Some	timein  the	 early part of 1928 the Burma Company  paid  to	 theassessee  a sum of Rs. 12,00,000 " as full compensation	 forcessation of the agency " and in August of the same year theAnglo-Persian Company paid them another sum of Rs.  3,25,000as  " compensation for the loss of your office as agents  tothe company " On the facts and circumstances of the case thePrivy  Council	came to the conclusion that the	 sums  couldonly be taxable if they were the produce, or the result	 of,carrying on the agencies of the oil companies in the year inwhich they were received by the assessees.  But when once itwas admitted that they were sums received; not for  carryingon  that  business, but as some 'Sort of  solatium  for	 itscompulsory  cessation,	the  answer  seemed  fairly   plain.Whatever be the criticism in regard to the concept of incomeadopted in this case noted(1)  (1932) L.R. 59 I. A. 206,212.397earlier in this judgment, the decision could just as well besupported   on	the  grounds  which  we	 have	hereinbeforediscussed  and was quite correct, the payments	having	beenreceived by the assessees as and by way of compensation	 forthe termination Or cancellation of the agency agreements  inquestion  which	 were  in fact the  capital  assets  of	 theassessee's business.The  Appellate	Assistant Commissioner as well as  the	HighCourt  were thus justified in the conclusion to	 which	theycame,  viz.,  that the sum of Rs. 2,19,343 received  by	 theassessee from the Company was a capital receipt.The  result,  therefore, is that the appeal fails  and	willstand dismissed with costs throughout.KAPUR, J.-I have had the advantage of perusing the  judgmentprepared by my learned brother Bhagwati, J., but with  greatrespect I am unable to agree and my reasons are these.The  sole question for determination in this case is  as  towhether	 a  sum of Rs. 2,26,263 received  by  the  assesseesfrom.	Vazir Sultan Tobacoo  Co. Ltd. as  compensation	 forthe  termination  of their agency for  the  distribution  of'charminar'   cigarettes  in  areas  of	 India	other	thanHyderabad  State  is or is not taxable in the hands  of	 theassessees.   The answer to this question depends on  whetherthe  amount has been received by the assessees as a  capitalor a revenue receipts.	In 1931 the assessees were appointeddistributing  agents  for Hyderabad State only and  for	 therest  of India in 1939, the agency commission in  each	casebeing  a  discount of 2% on the gross  selling	price.	 Theagency of 1939 was terminated by a resolution dated June 16,1950,	on  payment  of	 the  compensation  amount   alreadymentioned but the assessees continued to be distributors forHyderabad State.  It must here be mentioned that the  agencyin   question	was  terminable	 at  will,  and	  that	 anycompensation paid for it would prima facie be revenue.During the accounting year the amount of income, profits andgains  of  the	assessees from	the  cigarette	distributionbusiness and from another source, i. e.,398Acid Factory within the State of Hyderabad was Rs. 4,53,159.The  order  of	the  Income-tax	 Officer  or  the  AppellateTribunal   does	 not  show  bow	 much  of   this   sum	 wasattributable to the Cigarette distribution business and	 howmuch to the other source.  There is no finding as to how andto  what extent, if any, the business of the  assessees	 wasaffected by the cesser of distribution business outside thatState.The  question  now  arises did	the  assessees	receive	 thecompensation in lieu of the commission they otherwise  mightor  would have earned if the agreement had continued or	 didthey  receive  it as compensation for the destruction  of  aprofit-making  asset.	The answer to  this  question  wouldagain  be dependent upon whether the receipt in question  isattributable  to  a fixed capital asset	 or  to	 circulatingcapital.   These  two terms have been used in  a  number  ofcases  but  as applied to agencies compensation	 will  be  acapital	 receipt  if  it is received as	 the  value  of	 theagency,	 i.e.,	it is a price of the business as  if  it  isbrought to sale. On the other band it is revenue receipt  ifit  is	paid in lieu of profits or commission.	In  Van	 DenBerghs	 Ltd.	v.  Clark  (1)	Lord   Macmillan   describedcirculating capital as " capital which is turned over and inthe  process  of being turned over yields  profit  or  loss.Fixed  capital is not involved directly in that process	 andremains unaffected by it ". As was said by Lord Macmillan inthe  same  case, it is not possible to lay down	 any  singletest  as infallible or any single criterion as	decisive  inthe  determination  of the question.   Ultimately  it,	mustdepend upon the facts of a particular case.The assessees rested then case on the decision of the  PrivyCouncil in Commissioner of Income-tax v. Shaw Wallace &	 Co.(2) on which the High Court has mainly relied.	In that casethe assessees carried on business in India as merchants	 andagents for various companies.  They were distributing agentsfor  two on companies.	These two agencies  were  terminatedand a sum of Rs. 12,00,000 was paid as compensation for	 theloss of these agency rights and the question was(1) (1935) 19 Tax Cas. 390.  (2) (1932) L.R. 59 I.A. 206.399whether	 this  was a capital payment.  It was held to  be  acapital and not a revenue receipt because the, sum  receivedwas  not the result of carrying on the' agencies of the	 oilcompanies,  in	other words, it could 1 not be	regarded  asprofits	 or  gains  from carrying on the  business  but	 wasreceived  in  the nature of a solatium for  cessation.	 Thecase   was  decided  on	 the  interpretation  of  the	word'business'  as	defined in s. 2(4) of  the  Income-tax	Act,under	which	it  "  includes	 any  trade,   commerce	  ormanufacture,  or any adventure or concern in the  nature  oftrade, commerce or manufacture ". These words, it was  held,were  wide " but underlying each of them is the	 fundamentalidea  of  the continuous exercise of an activity  which	 wasalso  the idea underlying the relevant words of s. 10(1)  ofthe  Act,  "  in  respect of the profits  or  gains  of	 anybusiness carried on by him ", i. e., it is to be the  profitearned	by a process of production.  The test of income	 wasits  periodicity because it connotes a	periodical  monetaryreturn.	  This test of periodicity was not accepted  by	 thePrivy  Council	itself	in  Raja  Bahadur  Kamakshya  NarainSingh's	 case (1).  Lord Wright there said " income  is	 notnecessarily  the  recurrent return from a  definite  source,though	it  is generally so ". The test of  periodicity	 wasrejected  by  this  Court  in  Raghuvanshi  Mills  Ltd.	  v.Commissioner of Income-tax (2) where Bose, J., said that theremarks	 of periodical monetary return must be	confined  tothe  facts of that case and it was held that money  receivedfrom  an insurance company for insurance against losses	 wasincome	representing loss of profits as opposed to  loss  ofcapital.  In a later case The Commissioner of Income-tax  v.The  South India Pictures Ltd. (3) it was said that if	ShawWallace & Co. had other agencies similar to those of the twooil  companies	it  would  be  difficult  to  reconcile	 thedecision  in that case with the later decisions	 in  KelsallParsons	 &  Co. v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue  (4)	 andother cases (Per Das, C. J.). In view of the decision in theSouth India Pictures' case and the observations of Bose, J.,in the(1)  (1943) L.R. 70 I.A. 180.	(2)  [1953] S.C.R. 177, 183.(3)  [1956] S.C.R. 223, 232.   (4) (1938) 21 Tax Cas. 608.400case  of  Raghuvanshi Mills Ltd. (1) the authority  of	ShawWallace	 & Co.'s case (2) must be taken to  be	considerablyshaken.	  We  have then to see how the	question has  to  bedetermined.Various	 tests	have  been  laid  down	in  decided   cases.According to Lord Cave, L. C., an expenditure made not	onlyonce and for all but with a view to bringing into  existencean asset or an advantage for the enduring benefit of a tradehas been treated as properly attributable to capital and notto  revenue. (British Insulated Cables (3) ).  According  toLord  Atkinson the word " asset " need not be confined to  "something  material"  and Romer, L. J., has added  that	 theadvantage  paid for need not be ,of a positive	character  "and  may  consist  in the getting rid of an  item  of  fixedcapital	 that is of an onerous character (Anglo-Persian	 OilCo.  v. Dale (4) ). If the receipt represents the  aggregateof  profits which an assesee would otherwise  have  receivedover a series of years the lump sum might be regarded as  ofthe same nature as the ingredients of which it was  composed(19 Tax Cas. 390 at p. 431) (5) but it is not necessarily initself	an item of income (per Lord Buckmaster	in  GlenboigUnion Fireclay Co. (6) ).In  Van	 Den Berghs' case (7) there  were  three  agreementsbetween	 a British and a Dutch company operative  till	1940making	it possible for them to carry on their business	 'infriendly alliance' and providing for the sharing of  profitsin  certain proportions.  The agreements were terminated  in1927 and the Dutch company paid the English company a sum ofpound 450,000 as compensation.	The question was the charac-ter of the receipt-whether capital or revenue.	It was	heldby  the	 House of Lords that it was the former	because	 theagreements  were not " ordinary commercial contracts in	 thecourse of carrying on their trade ; they were not  contractsfor the disposal of their employees or for the engagement ofagents or other employees(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 177, 183   (2)  (1932) L.R. 59 I.A. 206(3)  [1926] A.C. 205, 213, 222.	 (4)	[1932] 1 K. B.	124,146(5)  Van Den Berghs Ltd. v Clark  (6)	(1922)	12 Tax	Cas.427, 464.(7) (1935) 19 Tax Cas. 390.401for  the  conduct  of their business nor  were	they  merelyagreements  as	to  how their trading  profits	when  earnedshould	be distributed as between the  contracting  parties.On  the	 contrary  the	agreements  related  to	 the   wholestructure of the recipient's profit making apparatus.	Theyregulated its activities, defined what it might or it  mightnot  do	 and affected the whole conduct of its	business  ".According  to  Lord Macmillan if the agreements	 formed	 thefixed	framework  within  which  the  circulating   capitaloperated, then they are not incidental to the working of itsprofit-making  machine	but  were  essential  parts  of	 themechanism  itself  and	therefore they	would  result  in  acapital	  receipt  and	not  revenue  receipt.	  Thus	 theagreements  were  designed to ensure that the  business	 wascarried on to the best advantage but they did not themselvesform  part of the business.  They were not agreements  whichmust  be regarded as pertinent to trading  activities  whichyielded	 profits.   As	such the  totality  of	payments  onaccount	 of  those  agreements were held  to  be  a  capitalreceipt.The  various  decided cases demarcate the areas on  the	 twosides  of the line in which a receipt may lie and  in  everycase  it has to be determined as to whether it falls on	 oneside  or  the other.  The simplest case is  of	income	fromproperty or business as distinct from something received  inlieu  of property or business itself.  One  illustration  ofthis  is insurance against fire, destruction or	 damage	 andinsurance against loss of profit, the former would bring  incompensation  in the nature of a capital.  Another  instanceis  where the whole business is bought over and the  receiptis the price of the business itself as opposed to a lump sumpayment for the loss of profit calculated on a proper basis.The  test  of income, i. e., periodicity  or  recurrence  atfixed intervals has been doubted in this Court.	 RaghuvanshiMills (1).Another	 test  is afforded by cases of	tangible  immoveableproperty.  If an owner of such property is paid compensationfor not working a part of his property,(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 177, 183.51402e.   g.	 a part of the demised premises the compensation  isnot  profit because it is payment for sterilising that	partof  the	 asset from which otherwise profit might  have	beenobtained.  (Glenboig  Union Fireclay case (1)  at  p.  464).There  is  no difference in cases of this kind	whether	 theabandonment extends to the whole area or is circumscribed toa  part	 because in either case it is sterilising  an  assetfrom which otherwise profit might have been obtained.  "  Itmakes no difference whether it may be regarded as a sale  ofthe asset out and out or it be treated merely as a means  ofpreventing the acquisition of profit that would otherwise begained.	  In  either case the asset of the company  to	thatextent has been sterilised or destroyed ".Another	 test is whether the agreement related to the  wholestructure   of	recipient's  profit-making   apparatus	 andaffected  the whole conduct of his business or was the	lossof a part of the fixed framework of the business.  If it is,it is capital (Van Den Bergh's case (2) ). But	compensationfor  temporary	and  variable elements	of  the	 recipient'sprofit-making  apparatus would be revenue (MacDonald's	case(3)  ).	 If the agreement affects the  whole  structure	 andcharacter of the recipient's business then it is capital butnot  if the structure of the business is so designed  as  toabsorb	the  shocks  as by the cancellation  of	 one  agency(Kelsall Parson's case(4)).  In Bush Beach and Gent Ltd.  v.Road(5)	 again	the  test of how  the  cancellation  of	 theagreement  affected  the recipient's business  was  applied.Barr Crombie's case (6) is a case of capital asset as  therethe  recipient	lost his entire business which	resulted  inreduction  of  staff,  salaries and even  in  office  accom-modation.   The	 result	 was  the  cesser  of  its   tradingexistence.  The transaction took the form of a transfer	 fora  price from one party to another of something that  formedpart of the enduring asset of one of them.  Compensation forthe  loss  of an agency would be for the loss of  a  capitalasset if the termination of the(1)  (1922) 12 Tax Cas. 427, 464.(2)  (1935) 19 Tax Cas. 390.(3)  (1955)  36 Tax Cas. 388.	     (4) (1938) 21 Tax	Cas.608.(5)  (1939) 22 Tax Cas. 519.	   (6)	(1945)	26 Tax	Cas.406.403agency	was a damage to the recipient's	 business  structuresuch as to destroy or materially cripple the whole structureinvolving  serious  dislocation	 of  the  normal  commercialorganisation but if it was merely compensation for the	lossof  trading profit, i. e., in respect of commissions  or  ittook the place of commission that would have been earned  ifthe engagement had continued then it is revenue (Wiseburg v.Domville)   (1).   So  that  the  decision  as	to   whethercompensation  was  capital  or	revenue	 would	depend	uponwhether	 the cessation of the agency destroys or  materiallycripples  the  whole  structure of  the	 recipient's  profitmaking apparatus or whether the loss is of the whole or partof the framework of business.If  we	apply these tests to the agreement  which  has	beenterminated  in the present case, it does not fall in any  ofthe class of cases of destruction of a capital asset.For the appellant reliance was placed on the observations ofVenkatarama Aiyar, J., in Commissioner of Income-tax v.	 RaiBahadur Jairam Valji (2) where it was pointed out that in anagency contract the actual business consists in the dealingsbetween the principal and his customers and the work of	 theagent is only to bring about that business.  In other  wordswhat  the  agent does is not business itself  but  somethingwhich  is  intimately and directly linked with it.   But  anexamination of the context shows that that is not what theseobservations mean.  The point that was to be decided in thatcase   was  whether  a	payment	 of  compensation  for	 thecancellation of a trading contract was a capital or  revenuereceipt,   and	dealing	 with  decisions  relating  to	 thecancellation  of  agency  contracts  which  were  quoted  insupport	 of  the  contention that  they	 were  capital,	 thelearned	 Judge_ observed that considerations  applicable  toagency	contracts  were inapplicable to	 trading  contracts,because	 the  two  classes of  contracts,  were	 essentiallydifferent,  and	 these differences were there  pointed	out.The purpose of these observations was to show that  receiptsfrom(1)  (1956) 36 Tax Cas. 527.(2)  [1959]  SUPP. 1 S.C.R. 110 [1959] 35 I.T.R.  148,	161,163.404trading	 contracts were revenue and not that  receipts	fromagency	contracts are capital.	That that is the true  scopeof these observations is clear from the following passage:"In holding that compensation paid on the cancellation of  atrading contract differs in character from compensation paidfor  cancellation  of an agency contract, we should  not  beunderstood as deciding that the latter must always, and as amatter	of  law	 be held to be a capital  receipt.   Such  aconclusion  will  be directly opposed to  the  decisions  inKelsall's  case (1) and Commissioner of Income-tax v.  SouthIndia Pictures Ltd (2).	 The fact is that an agency contractwhich  has the character of a capital asset in the hands  ofone person may assume the character of a trading receipt  inthe  hands  of another, as, for example, when the  agent  isfound to make a trade of acquiring agencies and dealing withthem ".The  Court  there observed that when the  assessee  holds  anumber	of agencies, the compensation paid for	cancellationof  any of them could be regarded as revenue receipt.	Thisis inconsistent with the conclusion that an agency  contractmust  always  be regarded as a capital asset.	The  learnedJudges further observed that they were not elaborating	thispart  as they were there concerned with a  trading  contractand therefore the statement as to when receipts from  agencycontracts  could be regarded as revenue receipts  cannot  beread as exhausting the circumstances under which they  couldbe held to be revenue.As  a  matter  of fact there are three	kinds  of  cases  ofagencies  shown	 by the decided cases: (1)  Kelsall  Parsonscase  (1)  where  the  recipient  was  carrying	 on  severalagencies  and  the test laid down was whether  the  businessstructure  could absorb a shock of the terminate on of	one.(2)  The other is where the compensation is for a  temporaryand variable element of assessee's profit making  apparatus;MacDonald's  case  (3).	 (3) The third	class  of  cases  isrepresented by(1) (1938) 21 Tax Cas. 608.  (2) [1956] S.C.R. 223, 232.(3)  (1955) 36 Tax Cas. 388.405Fleming	 &  Co.'s case(1) where the  rights  and  advantagessurrendered  were such as to destroy or	 materially  cripplethe whole structure of the profit making apparatus.The agencies themselves are of different kinds:(1)     wherethe agent himself carries on the business and	  sells	 theproduct	 of  the principal and gets commission for  it;	 (2)where  the  agent's  function is confined  to  bringing	 theprincipal  and	the  customer together and  be	gets  agencycommission  for	 the performance of only that  service;	 (3)where  the  agent  is  a  distributor  and  distributes	 theproducts of the principal through his sub-agents and chargescommission  for	 the distribution work.	 Cases (1)  and	 (3)would	not   strictly	fall  within  the  scope   of	the'observations  in Commissioner of Income-tax v. R. B.  JairamValji (2) and case (2) would fall within the second class ofagreements mentioned in Van Den Bergh's case (3).The  agreement	which  is  now	before	us  and	 which	 wassurrendered  was terminable at will.  The amount  of  profitwhich the assessee made from working the agency contract  inHyderabad  State alone was much more than the  amount  whichthe  assees  received for the termination of  the  whole  oftheir  agency outside the State.  Thus it is clear that	 thetermination  did  not affect the trading activities  of	 theassessees  and	therefore the termination  of  the  contractviewed	against	 the background of the	assessee's  businessOrganisation  and profit-making structure appears to  be  nomore  than  compensation for the loss of future	 profit	 andcommission.   The  true	 effect of the facts  of  this	caseappears	 to  be	 this that in 1939 the	assessee's  area  ofdistribution  was increased from the State of  Hyderabad  tothe  whole of India and in 1950 it was again reduced to	 theoriginal  area	of  1931.  The assessees  never	 lost  theiragency.	 As a result of this contraction of area they at themost  have  lost some agency commission.   The	compensationtherefore  was in the nature of surrogatum and in this	viewof the matter it is revenue and not capital.(1)  (1951) 33 Tax Cas. 57.(2)  [1959]  Supp.  1 S.C.R. 110 [1959] 35 I.T.R. 148,	161,163.(3)  (1935) 19 Tax Cas. 390.406I would therefore allow this appeal with costs throughout.By  COURT: In accordance with the majority judgment  of	 theCourt, the appeal is dismissed with costs throughout.Appeal dismissed.