PETITIONER:THE STATE OF MYSORE	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE WORKERS OF GOLD MINESDATE OF JUDGMENT:22/05/1958BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.SUBBARAO, K.BOSE, VIVIANCITATION: 1958 AIR  923		  1959 SCR  895ACT:Industrial  Dispute-Gold mining industy -Claim of  bonus  byemployees-Available surplus, Calculation of-Applicability ofFull Bench Formula-Duty of Industrial Tribunal.HEADNOTE:This was an appeal against an award of bonus to the  workmenof  the	 Mysore gold mining industries, then  under  companymanagement.   A covenant in the lease executed in favour  ofthe  companies	permitted them to create a reserve  fund  tomeet	depreciation   and   development   expenditure	  bycontributing 150 of the revenue expenditure to it and deductthe  same  in  calculating the net  surplus.   The  covenantimposed	 no obligation on the lessees to create such a	fundand  was  obviously  intended to provide  a  basis  for	 thelessor's claim to royalties.  It was contended on behalf  ofthe employer companies that the formula for determination ofavailable surplus as evolved by the Full Bench of the LabourAppellate Tribunal in Mill Owners Association, Bombay v. TheRashtriya   Mill Mazdoor Sangh, Bombay, (1950) L.L.J.  1247,was inapplicable to gold mining industries which had specialand  distinguishing  features  of their	 own  and  that	 theemployers  were entitled under the said covenant  to  deduct15%  of	 the  revenue  expenditure  as	a  prior  charge  incalculating the available surplus.  It was their case  that,thus calculated, there was no available surplus out of whichbonus  could be awarded.  The Tribunal was not impressed  bythis argument, disallowed the claim made on the basis of thecovenant,   applied  the  formula,  upheld  the	 claim	 fordepreciation  but as there was no evidence to show that	 anysums  had  actually been spent	for:rehabilitation  for	 theyears  in  question, refused to make any allowance  on	thathead.	It  was	 further  urged in  appeal  that  since	 thecompanies  were	 misled by previous awards passed  in  theirfavour	in not preferring any specific claim for  reliabili-tation,	 apart	from the general claim under  the  covenant,they should, in case their general claim was disallowed,  bepermitted to do so :Held,  that  the  formula evolved by  the  Labour  AppellateTribunal  and  generally  approved by  this  Court  and	 thecategories   of	  prior	 charges  prescribed  by   it	werecomprehensive enough to cover each individual case and therewas  no	 reason why it should not apply to the	gold  miningindustries as well.Mill  Owners Association, Bombay v. The Rashtriya Mill	Maz-door Sangh, Bombay, (1950) L.L.J. 1247, discussed.114896Muir  Mills  Co. Ltd., Kanpur v. Suti Mills  Mazdoor  Union,Kanpur, [1955] 1 S.C.R. 991, referred to.The  covenant in the lease, apart from the question  whetherit  could  bind the workmen, imposed no	 obligation  on	 theemployees  and	could not preclude an investigation  by	 theTribunal,  as  to  the merits of each  particular  claim  ofexpenditure  in	 order	to ascertain the  existence  of	 anyavailable surplus, and the Tribunal was right in disallowingthe  claim  made solely on the basis of the  covenant  whichcould otherwise have been made under the formula itself.Held,  further,	 that  the concept of  social  and  economicjustice on which the claim of bonus is founded apply equallyto gold mining industries as to any others and the  formula,which had for its purpose the ascertainment of the availablesurplus	 to make an award possible, owed its origin  to	 thesame principles of social and economic justice enshrined  inthe Directive Principles of State Policy enunciated by Arts.38 and 43 Of the Constitution.It  is	for  the Industrial Tribunal to	 determine  in	eachparticular  case, on the evidence adduced by  the  employersand  having  regard  to	 the  special  requirements  of	 theindustry,  which  items of expenditure	should	be  admittedunder each of the four categories prescribed by the  formulaand  in doing so they should apply the principles laid	downand  discussed in decided cases in a flexible manner  suitedto the requirements of each case.Ganesh	Flour Mills Co. Ltd., Kanpur v. Ganesh	Flour  MillsStaff  Union,  (1952) L.A.C. 172, Trichinopoly	Mills  Ltd.,Ramjeenagar   v.  National  Cotton  Mills  Workers;   Union,Ramjeenagar,  (1953) L.A.C. 672, The Meenakshi	Mills  Ltd.,Madurai and Manapparai v. Their Workmen, (1954) L.A.C. 131`,The  Rohtas Sugar Ltd. v. Their Workmen, (1954)	 L.A.C.	 168and  The Mettuy lndustries Ltd., Mettur Dam V. The  Workers,(1957) L.A.C. 288, referred to.As  in	the present case, the employers were misled  by	 theprevious  awards,  it was only pro-per that they  should  beallowed	  an   opportunity   to	 prove	 their	 claim	 forrehabilitation	apart  from  the  general  claim  under	 thecovenant.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION Civil Appeal No. 648 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedNovember   24,	1956,  of  the	Central	 Govt.	  IndustrialTribunal, Madras, in Industrial Dispute No. 1 of 1956.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India, 897R.   Ganapathy	Iyer, T. Rangaswami lyengar and T.  M.	Sen,for the appellant.Janardan Sharma, for respondents Nos. 1, 2 and 6.L.K.  Jha,  B.	R. L. Iyengar and C.  V.  Ramachar-,  forrespondents Nos. 3 and 5.1958.  May 22.	The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR	J.-This is an appeal with special  leave  bythe State of Mysore against the award passed by the  CentralGovernment  Industrial	Tribunal, Madras,  on  November	 24,1956,  in  Industrial  Dispute No. 1  of  1956	between	 theemployers  in relation to the Gold Mines of the	 Kolar	GoldFields,	 Mysore, and their workmen.  The employers were	 theChampion Reef Gold Mines of India (KGF) Ltd., Mysore  State,the Mysore Gold Mining Company (KGF) Ltd., Mysore State	 andthe   Nundydroog   Mines  (KGF)	 Ltd.,	and   their   alliedestablishments	the Central Administration, the	 Kolar	GoldFields Electricity Department, the Kolar Gold Field Hospitaland the Kolar Gold Field Watch and Ward establishment.	 Thedispute between these employers and their workmen arose fromthe  claim  made by the workmen for bonus for  the  calendaryears  1953 and 1954.  The Unions representing	the  workmenalleged that the employers had sufficient available  surplusin  their hands from which they could and should be  awardedbonus for the two years in question.  The Union representingthe  working in Mysore Gold Mining Co. Ltd.,  demanded	fourmonths	wages and five months wages as bonus for  the  years1953  and  1954 respectively.  The Union on  behalf  of	 theNundydroog  Mines demanded four months total wages as  bonusfor 1953 and 1954 whereas the workmen in Champion Reef	GoldMines  demanded four months wages as bonus for the said	 twoyears.	 The management opposed these demands on the  groundthat  there was no available surplus for both the  years  inall the mines and so no bonus can be awarded.  In  substancethe tribunal has rejected the case made out by the898management and has passed an award in favour of the workmen.Taking into consideration all relevant factors the  tribunalhas  awarded as bonus wages at the rate of 1-1/2  months  in1953  and three months in 1954	to the workers of  ChampionRef Mines Ltd; 2-1/2 months in 1953 and 3-1/2 months in 1954to the workers of the Nundydroog Mines Ltd; and one  month'sin  1953  and  three months in 1954 to the  workers  of	 theMysore	Gold  Mines  Co.  Ltd.	In  regard  to	the  workmenemployed  in  the allied establishments,  the  tribunal	 hasawarded as bonus one month's wages in the year 1953 and	 twomonths basic wages in the year 1954.It  was urged before the tribunal by the management that  itwould  be  inappropriate  to apply the	Full  Bench  formulaevolved by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in the Mill  OwnersAssociation,  Bombay  v. The Rashtriya Mill  Mazdoor  Sangh,Bombay (1) without suitable modifications to the case of themines.	The argument was that, unlike the textile  industry,gold mining is a wasting industry, and the adjustment of therival  claims of the employer and the employee, even on	 thebasis  of  social justice, cannot be properly  made  by	 therigid application of the said formula.	In the case of	goldmines  it  is of considerable importance that  the  industryshould invest a large amount in search of new ore and higherexpenditure  has  to  be  incurred  even  for  renewal	 andreplacement   of  machinery.   The  tribunal  accepted	 theargument  that the special requirements of the	gold  miningindustry  would	 have to be considered in dealing  with	 theworkmen's claim for bonus, but nevertheless it was  inclinedto take the view that the principles laid down by the LabourAppellate  Tribunal  in arriving at the Full  Bench  formula-should be adhered to.The  next argument which was raised before the tribunal	 wasbased on sub-para. (5) in the lease deed executed in  favourof  the management on February 20, 1949.  The case  for	 themanagement  was that the management was entitled  to  deduct15%  of	 the  revenue  expenditure  as	a  prior  charge  incalculating(i)(1950) L. L. J. 1247.899the  available surplus.	 It Nil-as urged that  the  relevantclause in the lease deed required the management to create areserve	  fund	 to  meet   depreciation   and	 developmentexpenditure  of	 a  capital nature and to  provide  for	 thesearch	of new ore and it was urged that the amount  debitedby  the	 management in pursuance of this  clause  should  betreated	 as a prior charge.  The tribunal was not  impressedby this argument.  It held that a separate fund for  findingout  new ore and keeping the longevity of the  industry	 wasabsolutely  necessary  but  it was not	satisfied  that	 thecovenant  in the lease on which reliance was placed  by	 themanagement  could  bind the workmen and that the  amount  inquestion  could be treated as a prior charge.  The  tribunalalso found that no evidence had been adduced before it	thatany  part of the amount thus debited had been in  fact	usedfor  any  of'  the  purposes  mentioned	 in  the   covenant.According  to the tribunal there was also no evidence  that,in  addition  to  the  statutory  depreciation	any  furtherallowance  should be made for rehabilitation reserve and  itheld that it was not shown that any amount had in fact	beenspent  for  rehabilitation in the two relevant	years.	 Oilthese  findings the amount of Rs. 20.26 lakhs oil which	 themanagement  relied was not allowed by the tribunal  because,in  its opinion, the said amount was a mixture of very	manyitems depending upon the options exercised by the managementunder the terms of the joint operation schemes.Another point of dispute between the parties was in  respectof  the contribution made by the management to	the  PensionFund  scheme.	The management claimed credit both  for	 theinitial	 and  the  annual contribution made  by	 it  in	 therelevant  years.  The tribunal held that, having  regard  tothe   circumstances  under  which  the	pension	  fund	 wasintroduced  by the companies and having regard to  the	factthat it was intended only for the benefit of the  covenantedstaff  of  the companies, it would be inequitable  to  alloweither	the  initial  or the annual  contributions  to	takeprecedence  over the workmen's claim for bonus.	  Therefore,the claim by the management for deduction900of  both the initial and annual contributions was  rejected.It  was	 also  urged  by  the  management  that	 the  amountrepresenting the bonus paid to the workmen for the year 1950should be deducted in 1958 since it was actually debited  tothe workmen in that year.  The tribunal held that this claimwas inadmissible.  Lastly, the tribunal disallowed the claimmade by the management for interest at a higher rate than  2% on reserve employed as working capital during the relevantyears.	Having thus rejected most of the contentions  raisedby  the	 management,  the tribunal applied  the	 Full  Benchformula	 and  came to the conclusion that there	 was  enoughavailable  surplus  in the hands of the management  for	 theyears 1953 and 1954 and so it made an award in favour of theworkmen	 for payment of bonus as already indicated.   It  isthis award which has given rise to the present appeal.Before	dealing with the merits of the appeal, it  would  berelevant  to  state  the material facts	 in  regard  to	 theworking	 of the Gold Mines which has ultimately brought	 theState  of  Mysore  as the appellant in	the  present  appealbefore us.  Four Public Joint, Stock Companies	incorporatedin  the United Kingdom were operating the Gold Mines of	 theKolar  Gold  Fields  by virtue of leases  of  mining  rightsobtained  by  them  from the Government	 of  Mysore.   Thesecompanies  were	 the  Mysore Gold Mining  (-Io.	  Ltd.,	 theChampion  Reef	Gold Mines of India Ltd., the  Oorgaum	GoldMining Co. Ltd.,and the Nundydroog Mines Ltd.  The  termsandconditions  of the leases obtained by these  companies	werethe  same.  After the second world war broke out, the  valueof  gold increased and so the Mysore legislature  passed  anact  called the Mysore Duty on Gold Act, 1940 (Mys.  XIX  of1940)  imposing	 duty on gold produced in the  mines.	Thisduty was in addition to the royalty, rent, cesses and  taxespayable	 under the lease deeds executed on March  25,  1935.It  appears that the gold mining companies represented	thatthe  imposition of gold duties meant hardship for  them	 andthat it did not leave sufficient funds from which  provisioncould be made for depreciation and901development so necessary for the longevity of the mines.  Asa  result of the negotiations, the Act of 1940 was  repealedin 1946 and a fresh agreement made under which	contributionwas  levied  by the State of Mysore against  the  companies.Under  this  agreement rupee companies had to be  formed  inIndia to take over the undertakings and assets in Mysore  ofthe  Sterling or U. K. companies and the seat of  managementhad to be transferred from the United Kingdom to India.	  Inpursuance   of	 this	agreement   four   rupee   companiescorresponding  to the four Sterling or U. K. companies	wereformed	in India.  Their names were the Mysore	Gold  MiningCo. (KGF) Ltd., the Champion Reef Gold Mines of India  (KGF)Ltd., the Oorgaum Gold Mines (KGF) Ltd., and the  NundydroogMines (KGF) Ltd.  All the shares in the rupee companies wereheld by the corresponding Sterling or U. K. companies.	 Theassets in Mysore of the Sterling companies were	 transferredto  the	 corresponding	K. G. F. companies  and	 the  miningoperations were carried on by these companies from April  1,1951, by conforming to the terms and conditions embodied  inthe agreements (copies of which are Exs.  1 and 2).The  four  gold	 mining companies had for  the	purposes  ofconvenience and economy common establishments called CentralAdministration,	 Medical Establishment and  the	 Electricity-Department.  There was also a private limited company namedKolar Mines Power Station (K.  G. F.) Private Ltd., all	 theshares of which were held by the said gold mining companies.This  was  only an ancillary company and its object  was  tomaintain   a   stand-by	 emergency  plant   for	  generatingelectricity in case of emergency and to distribute  electricpower  to  the	gold  mining  companies.   The	gold  miningcompanies  were managed by the same managing agents by	nameJohn Taylor & Sons(Private) Ltd.The  Oorgaum mine soon became an uneconomic unit because  ithad reached such depths that owing to technical difficultiesore  could  no longer be taken out of them.   This  company,therefore, ceased mining902operations  in	1953  and transferred its  leases  with	 theconcurrence  of the Mysore Government to the  Champion	ReefGold  Mines  of India (K.  G. F.) Ltd.	Since  then  Oorgaumcompany has gone into liquidation.  That is how in the	year1954  there were only three operating, mining companies	 andtheir allied establishments.In  1956  the  Mysore State  nationalised  the	gold  miningindustry  by an act called the Kolar Gold Mine	Undertakings(Acquisition) Act, 1956 (Mys.  XXII of 1956).  According  tothe  provisions	 of  this Act and  the	notification  issuedthereunder,  the undertakings of the gold  mining  companiesvested in the State from November 29, 1956.  In consequence,the Government became liable to pay the bonus awarded by theCentral Government Industrial Tribunal, Madras.	 That is howthe State of Mysore felt aggrieved by the said award and haspreferred the present appeal by special leave to this Court.The first point which calls for our decision is whether	 thetribunal was justified in applying the principles underlyingthe  Full  Bench  formula in determining  the  existence  orotherwise  of  the  available surplus in the  hands  of	 theappellant  during  the relevant years.	In The	Mill  OwnersAssociation,  Bombay  v. The Rashtriya Mill  Mazdoor  Sangh,Bombay(1), the Labour Appellate Tribunal was called upon  toconsider  the  workmen's  claim for  bonus.   The  appellatetribunal  held that bonus was not an exgratia  payment	evenwhere  wages  had been standardised nor was it a  matter  ofdeferred wages.	 The recognition of the workmen's claim	 forbonus rests on the view, which is now well established, thatboth  labour and capital contribute to the earnings  of	 theindustrial  concern and that social justice  requires  that,workmen should be allowed a reasonable share in the  profitsmade  by  the industry.	 In determining the quantum  of	 theprofit	to  which  workmen as a whole (,an  be	held  to  beentitled,  the Labour Appellate Tribunal evolved  a  formulaunder which the amount of the available surplus in the handsof the employer(1)(1950) L.L.J. 1247.903can  be	 determined.  This formula takes the figure  of	 thegross profits made by the industry for the relevant year andmakes	provisions  for	 depreciation,	for  reserves,	 forrehabilitation, for return at 6% on the paid-up capital, fora  return on the working capital at a lesser rate  than	 thereturn on the paid-up capital and for the payment of income-tax.   These  items  are treated as prior  charges  and	 theamount	determined after deducting the aggregrate  total  ofthese  items  from  the gross profits is deemed	 to  be	 theavailable  surplus  for the relevant year.  It	is  in	thisavailable  surplus thus deduced that labour is	entitled  toclaim a reasonable share by way of bonus.  It would thus  beclear that under this formula the existence of an  availablesurplus	 is a condition precedent for the award of bonus  toworkmen.   The	formula also postulates that the  claim	 forbonus is made by workmen who are not paid what may  properlybe  regard  as living wages.  The payment of bonus  is	thusintended to attempt to fill up the (Tap, to the extent	thatis  reasonably possible, between the wages actually paid  tothe  workmen  and the living wages which  they	legitimatelyhope in due course to secure.  This formula has received thegeneral	 approval  of  this Court in Muir  Mills  Co.  Ltd.,Kanpur	v.  Suti  Mills Mazdoor Union, Kanpur  (1).   It  isconceded  before  us that since 1950 the basis	supplied  bythis,  formula has been adopted by  industrial	adjudicationall over the country in dealing with the workmen's claim forbonus in different kinds of industries.It is, however, urged by Mr. Sanyal, for the appellant, thatthe appellant's industry is a wasting industry and it  needsspecial	  consideration.   Search  for	new  ore  which	  isessential for the prosperity and longevity of this  industryis  its	 special feature and the interests of  the  industryitself	require	 that  proper  and  adequate  provision	 forprospecting new ore must be made before the workmen's, claimfor bonus can be awarded.  Similarly a larger provision	 mayhave to be made for depreciation or(1) [1955] 1 S. C. R. 991.I15904rehabilitation	because	 of the special needs  of  this	 in-dustry.	  It  may  be conceded that this  inustry  has	somespecial needs of its own; but it cannot be -denied that	 theprinciples of social justice oil which a claim for bonus  isfounded apply as much to this industry as to others.  Socialand economic justice have been given a place of pride in ourConstitution  and one of the directive principles  of  Statepolicy	enshrined in Art. 38 requires that the	State  shallstrive to promote the welfare of the people by securing	 andprotecting as effectively as it may a social order in  whichjustice social, economic and political shall inform all	 theinstitutions of national life.	Besides, Art. 43 enuiiciatesanother	 directive  principle by providing  that  the  Stateshall  endeavour  to  secure,  by  suitable  legislation  oreconomic  organization or in any other way, to all  workers,agricultural, industrial or otherwise, work, a living  wage,conditions  of work ensuring a decent standard of  life	 andfull   enjoyment   of  leisure	and  social   and   culturalopportunities.	 The concept of social and economic  justiceis  a  living  concept of revolutionary import	;  it  givessustenance  to the rule of law and meaning and	significanceto  the ideal of a welfare state.  It is on this concept  ofsocial justice that the formula in question has been foundedand  experience	 in the matter	of  industrial	adjudicationshows  that, on the whole, the formula has attained  a	fairamount	of  success.   It is true  that	 in  industrial	 ad-judication  purely techinical and legalistic  considerationswhich are apt to lead to rigidity or inflexibility would notalways	be appropriate; nor is it desirable to allow  purelytheoretical or academic considerations unrelated to facts toinfluence  industrial  adjudication.  In its attempt  to  dosocial justice, industrial adjudication has to adjust  rivalclaims	of the employer and his workmen in a fair  and	justmanner and this object can best be achieved by dealing	witheach   problem	 as  it	 arises	 on  its   own	 facts	 andcircumstances.	 Experience  has shown that the	 formula  inquestion is, in its application, elastic enough to meet	 therequirements  of  individual cases, and so we do  not  thinkthat  the appellant has made out a case for any addition  tothe905existing categories of prior charges.  It is clear that	 theamounts	 which	can  be admitted  under	 the  said  existingcategories  would have to be determined in the light of	 theevidence  adduced by the employer and having regard  to	 thespecial	 requirements  of the employer's industry.   In	 thepresent	 case  the  special  features  of  the	 appellant'sindustry  on which Mr. Sanyal relies would have to be  takeninto  account'	in determining the amounts  which  could  beincluded either under depreciation or under  rehabilitation.That is the approach adopted by the tribunal in the  presentcase  and we do not think that any complaint can be  validlymade against it.The next point which has been urged by Mr. Sanval relates tothe claim made by the appellant for the deduction of 15%  ofthe  revenue  expenditure under a special  covenant  of	 thelease.	 Let  us first refer to the relevant  terms  of	 thelease on which this argument is founded.  The original leasewhich was executed in 1935 had, under para. 3, imposed	uponthe  lessees an obligation that they shall, during the	termof the lease, in the best and the most effectual manner	 andwithout	 intermission, except when prevented by	 unavoidableaccident,  search for all gold metals, metallic	 ores,	pre-cious  stones,	coal and other substances of a	saleable  ormercantilable  nature within or upon the mining block.	 Thesecond	schedule  to  the  lease  purported  to	 define	 theexpression  adjusted annual profits of the lessee' on  whichthe  lessor's  claim for royalty was  based.   The  adjustedannual	profits	 of the lessee had to be  ascertained  underthis schedule by reference to the published annual  accountsof the lessees and meant the difference in any year  betweenthe  gross  income of the lessees from all sources  and	 thegross amount of the sums mentioned in paras.  1 to 6 of	 theschedule.   Para. 5 to the schedule referred to a sum  equalto 15% of the aggregate amount of the expenses mentioned  inpara. 4 of this part of the schedule.  Thus it appears	thatamongst	 the items which the lessee was entitled  to  deductfrom  the gross revenue for the purpose of  determining	 hisadjusted annual profits was included the amount mentioned inpara. 5. Subsequently by an906Aagreement  and	deed  of  variation  executed  in  1949	 thedeductions  which the lessee was entitled to make  from	 thegross  profits for the purpose of determining  his  adjustedsurplus were stated in a modified form.	 The adjusted profitwas  now  called  the net surplus and the  procedure  to  beadopted to determine this net surplus has been mentioned  inpara.  5  of this document.  Clause (v) of para.  5  is	 thematerial  clause  with which we are concerned.	 Under	thisclause	a  sum	up to 15% of the  aggregate  amount  of	 theexpenses  of  the  lessees shown as  debit  items  in  theirpublished revenue account or Income and Expenditure  accountshall	be   reserved  for  depreciation   and	 developmentexpenditure of a capital nature such as search for new	ore,purchase   of	machinery,  etc.,  and	for   renewals	 andreplacements  and  shall  be credited to  a  separate  fund,provided, however, that the accumulated balance in the	saidfund less commitments does not exceed 25% of the expenses ofthe  lessee shown as debit items in their published  revenueaccount or Income and Expenditure account as the case may befor the first year on which the 15% was calculated or of thelast  preceding year whichever shall be greater.  It  is  onthis clause that the appellant claims to treat the amount of15%  as	 a  prior charge in the	 present  proceedings.	 Theargument is that this is a valid contract between the lessorand  the  lessee  and the lessee is entitled  to  claim	 thebenefit	 of the contract and to treat the amount as a  priorcharge.In  dealing with this point we do not think it is  necessaryto decide the larger academic question as to whether such  acontract would bind the workmen.  The tribunal has hold thatsince  the relevant covenant has the effect  of	 withdrawingfrom  the  gross profits a substantial amount,	workmen	 areentitled to contend that the contract does not bind them andthe amount should not be treated as a prior charge.  In	 ouropinion it would be possible to deal with this question in adifferent  way.	 The appellant's argument assumes  that	 thelessee	is under an obligation to create a reserve fund	 andto  contribute to it an amount equal to 15% as mentioned  inthe clause.  This907assumption  is	not  justified by the clause  itself  It  issignificant that the clause does not impose on the appellantan  obligation	to create a reserve fund at all.   The	onlyobligation  which the lease has imposed on the appellant  isthat  the  appellant shall make a search for  all  gold	 andmetallic ores during the continuance of the lease.  If,	 forcarrying  out this search the appellant actually spends	 anyamount he may be entitled to claim credit for that amount  ;but   neither  the  lease  nor	its  annexures	impose	 anyobligation on the appellant to spend a particular amount  inthat  behalf or to create a special fund earmarked for	thatpurpose.   The	lessor has merely allowed the  appellant  tocreate a specific fund as indicated in the relevant,  clauseand  the lessor has agreed to allow the appellant to  deductthe  amount thus put in the said reserve fund from  year  toyear from the gross receipts for the purpose of	 determiningthe  appellant's net surplus.  In other words, for  decidingthe amount of net surplus on which the lessor's claims	suchas  that  for royalties or contributions may be	 based,	 theappellant  is allowed to make certain specified	 deductions;amongst	 these	is the 15% mentioned in para.  5,  cl.	(v).:Besides,  the 15% of the aggregate amount mentioned in	 theclause	is the maximum limit which the contribution  to	 thespecial	 fund  in any year is allowed to  reach	 under	thisclause.	  Prima	 facie	it appears to  be  doubtful  if	 theappellant's  failure to create a reserve fund or to  make  acontribution to the said fund from year to year would neces-sarily	incur forfeiture of his lease.	However, apart	fromthis  consideration  there is no obligation imposed  on	 theappellant  under this clause and any argument based  on	 thealleged obligation cannot, therefore, be accepted.There  is also another consideration which must be borne  inmind.	The  fund  contemplated by the	relevant  clause  isintended  to meet depreciation and  development	 expenditureand it is clear that the depreciation and rehabilitation areincluded  in  the Full Bench formula amongst  the  items  ofprior charge in dealing with workmen's claim for bonus.	  Ifthe  appellant	wants to make a claim for  depreciation	 andrehabilitation908it would be open to him to make such a claim even under	 theFull  Bench formula.  Indeed its claim for depreciation	 hasbeen  upheld by the present award.  The fact that  items  ofdepreciation and rehabilitation are included in this  clauseshows  that  even if the amounts claimed  by  the  appellantsolely	on the strength of this clause are not	allowed,  itwould nevertheless be open to the appellant to make a  claimin  respect of admissible items independently of the  clauseand  if he succeeds in proving this claim there could be  noinjustice to the appellant.  In our opinion it would not  bereasonable  or fair to allow the appellant's specific  claimfor  15% by way of rehabilitation solely on the ground	thatthe  clause allows it to debit up to 15% in a  special	fundwithout	 examining  the question as to whether a  claim	 fordepreciation  and rehabilitation is justified, and  if	yes,what should be the amount which should be treated as a priorcharge in the present proceeding.  Inclusion of these  itemsin a separate fund allowed under the relevant clause  cannotpreclude  an investigation by the industrial  tribunal	intothe merits of the said items and that is what the  appellantseeks  to do by placing his claim in that behalf  solely  onthe relevant clause.  We are, therefore, satisfied that	 thetribunal  was not in error in disallowing the claim made  bythe  appellant	solely on the strength	of  this  particularclause.As  we	have already pointed out the tribunal  has  in	factconceded  that the appellant would be justified in making  aclaim  for  prospecting	 new ore  and  thereby	helping	 thelongevity of its industry ; but since no material was placedbefore	the tribunal on which the tribunal  could  determinethe  amount  which the appellant can legitimately  claim  inthat  behalf, the tribunal was unable to give the  appellantany  relief in this matter.  In this connection	 Mr.  Sanyalreferred us to the entries in the extracts from the balance-sheets which referred to the captial expenditure during	 therelevant  years	 on  buildings,	 machinery  and	 plant	 andsundries as well as on shaft sinking, etc.  In regard to theMysore Gold Mining Co., for instance, the capital909expenditure in question during the year ending December	 31,1953,  was  shown as Rs. 3,30,729 (Ex.	 VIII-A).   But	 thedifficulty in accepting this figure as a prior charge eitherunder  depreciation or under rehabilitation arises from	 thefact  that  Mr.	 Rajagopal Srinivasan who  was	examined  onbehalf of the appellant was unable to explain how this totalamount was made up.  The witness expressly admitted that thecompanies had no record to show separately the amounts underdifferent  heads.   Mr.	 Sanyal fairly	conceded  that	the,companies might have led better evidence in support of theircase.	As the evidence stands, however, it is difficult  tochallenge the correctness of the view taken by the  tribunalthat  the amounts shown in the different extracts  from	 thebalance-sheets	are a mixture of very many  items  dependingupon  the  options exercised by the management and  that  itwould  be impossible to say which part of the  said  amountscan  be	 legitimately  treated as  prior  charge  under	 theheading of rehabilitation.  That is why we do not think thatMr. Sanyal can succeed in his argument that, on the evidenceas  it stands, the appellant is entitled to  any  particularamount under the heading of rehabilitation.That  takes  us	 to the appellant's case in  regard  to	 theannual contribution towards the pension fund which has	beendisallowed  by the tribunal.  It appears that the scheme  ofpension	 fund  which  was intended for the  benefit  of	 thecovenanted  servants  of the sterling  companies  came	intooperation  as  from January 1, 1951, soon  after  the  rupeecompanies came into existence.	Certain rules appear to havebeen framed in respect of this pension fund and a trust	 hasapparently been created for the administration of the  fund.Under these rules the companies made the contribution  whichis called the initial contribution to the fund as  specifiedin  para.  1(c) of the rules.  In addition to  this  initialcontribution, the companies had to pay to the fund by  half-yearly	instalments on June 30 and December 31 of each	yearan  ordinary  annual contribution at the rate  specified  inpara.  6. The appellant makes a claim for the  deduction  ofthis annual contribution as a prior charge and his grievanceis that this910claim has been unreasonably disallowed by the tribunal.	  Inregard	to this fund the tribunal has made certain  findingsof fact which cannot be challenged before us.  The  tribunalhas  relied on the circumstances under which this fund	cameinto   existence.   Mr.	 Jha,  for  the	  respondents,	 hascharacterised  this fund as a parting gift of  the  Sterlingcompanies  to their covenanted servants and it would  appearas if the tribunal was inclined to take a similar view aboutthe  genesis of this fund.  The class of persons  for  whosebenefit this fund has been created consists of a very  smallnumber of officers.  It does not appear from the record thatthese  persons	claimed this benefit or that  granting	thisbenefit was otherwise necessary for the successful operationof  the affairs of the companies.  The officers who got	 thebenefit	 of this fund were entitled to gratuity	 and  duringall the years of their existence the Sterling companies	 hadnever  thought before of creating such a fund.	A claim	 forthe  initial  contribution to this fund has  not  been	madebefore us; but even in regard to the annual contribution thetribunal  was not satisfied that the amount  was  reasonableand that the payment of this amount was otherwise  justifiedon the merits.	As against these facts the tribunal referredto  the cases of a larger number of non-covenanted  servantsof  the companies and other employees for whom no such	fundexists.	  Having  regard  to  all  these  circumstances	 thetribunal held that it would not be fair or just to allow theappellant  to  claim  that the annual  contribution  to	 thepension	 fund  in  question should be  treated	as  a  priorcharge,	 and  thereby reduce the gross profits	which  wouldadversely  affect the respondents' claim for bonus.  In	 ouropinion,  whether  or not this particular amount  should  beallowed	 as  claimed  by the appellant does  not  raise	 anygeneral question of law and the reasonableness of the  claimhas,  therefore, to be judged in the light of  all  relevantfacts and circumstances.  As the tribunal has found  againstthe  appellant	on this point we do not think  we  would  bejustified in interfering with the decision of the tribunal.The next contention raised by Mr. Sanyal is in911respect of the finding made by the tribunal in regard to theamount	of bonus paid by the companies to their workmen	 forthe  year  1950.  The employer's case was that	though	thisbonus had accrued for the year 1950 it was actually paid  in1953 and so the amount of the bonus should be deducted	fromthe  gross  profits  for 1953.	 This  contention  has	beenrejected  by the tribunal.  The tribunal has  observed	thatthough	the disbursement of bonus for the year was  actuallymade  in the early part of 1953 the amount was provided	 anddebited	 in 1952.  This can be seen from the income-tax	 as-sessment  order	 to which the tribunal	has  referred.	 Theemployer had claimed as an expenditure the amount in respectof bonus relating to 1950 in the said income tax  proceedingand so it was held that the said amount cannot now be  takeninto  consideration  for the year 1953.	 We do not  see	 anyerror  of  law committed by the tribunal in  recording	thisfinding.   It  is  clear that  the  respondents	 were  foundentitled  to bonus for the year 1950, because the  companiesheld  in their hands sufficient available surplus  from	 thetrading	  profits   of	that  year.   In  the	absence	  ofsatisfactory  evidence,	 normally  the	bonus  paid  to	 therespondents  for  the  year  1950  cannot  be  brought	intoaccounting  for	 a  subsequent	year.	We  are,  therefore,satisfied  that the appellant cannot successfully  challengethe tribunal's finding on this question.It will now be material to refer to the two previous  awardsbetween	 the companies and their workmen because Mr.  Sanyalhas based an argument on these awards and that argument	 yetremains	 to  be	 examined.  On January	5,1953,	 Mr.  V.  N.Dikshitulu, the sole member of the industrial tribunal	madehis award in an industrial dispute between the Champion ReefGold  Mines of India Ltd., and its workmen.  By	 this  awardthe tribunal held that the claim made by the employer on thestrength of the clause permitting the creation of a  reservefund and an annual contribution to it up to 15% "cannot	 butbe  allowed because mining operations can be performed	onlysubject to the condition of making the said item of116912reserve	 as per the agreement and hence it stands to  reasonthat  the reserve should be deducted from the gross  profitsto  ascertain the available surplus".  It is clear from	 theaward  that the tribunal did not consider the effect of	 theterms contained in the clause after construing the  relevantclauses	 and  we see no discussion about the merits  of	 therival contentions in respect of this claim.  Apparently, thetribunal accepted the employer's case at its face value	 andgranted	 the relief to the employer without considering	 allthe  relevant  clauses of the lease and	 its  annexures	 andwithout	 examining the merits of the workmen's case  on	 thepoint.	 The next award was passed by Mr. Dave	on  December31,  1954,  in Reference Nos. 6 and 7 of  1954.	  These	 tworeferences arose from disputes between the Orgaum Gold Minesand the Champion Reef Gold Mines and their workmen.  By thisaward  Mr. Dave rejected the employer's claim for  deducting15% from the gross profits under the relevant clause becausehe was not satisfied that the maximum limit of 25% mentionedin  the clause had not been exceeded during the	 year  1952.The  employer did not produce relevant books of account	 andMr. Dave took the view that the non-production of the  booksshowed	that  the employer was afraid that the	books  wouldindicate  that the maximum limit had already been  exceeded.On  that  view	Mr. Dave reached  the  conclusion  that	 theemployer  was not entitled to make any contribution  to	 thefund  during  the relevant year.  In regard to	the  pensionfund Mr. Dave disallowed the claim for initial	contributionbut  allowed  the  claim for annual  contribution.   He	 wasinclined  to hold that the annual contribution was made	 forservices rendered during that year and should certainly formpart  of  the expenses of that year.  This award  was  takenbefore the Labour Appellate Tribunal.  The Labour  AppellateTribunal confirmed Mr. Dave's decision both in regard to theinitial	 and  the annual contribution  towards	the  pensionfund.	The Appellate Tribunal, however, different from	 Mr.Dave in regard to the employer's claim for the deduction  of15% under the relevant clause.	It accepted913the finding of the tribunal that the employer had failed  toprove  that in a particular year the maximum of 15%  was  infact  required	to  be	contributed  to	 the  reserve  fund.However,  it  held  that  the  amount  of  Rs.	4.77   lakhsrepresented the actual expenditure incurred by the  employerduring the year and so this amount was allowed to be treatedas  a  prior  charge., It would no doubt appear	 as  if	 theAppellate  Tribunal'  took  the	 relevant  figure  from	 thebalance-sheet  as  showing the actual  expenditure.   It  isunnecessary  for  us to consider whether  this	finding	 wasjustified  or  not.   What is,	however,  relevant  for	 thepresent	 purpose  is the finding of the	 tribunal  that	 thecompany was not entitled to claim the full provision of	 therate  of 15% of the total revenue expenditure allowed  underthe  clause in question.Mr.  Sainyal has referred to these two awards in support  ofhis contention that the companies did not think it necessaryto make a specific claim for rehabilitation because - it wasthought	 that following the previous awards the	 claim	madefor 15% would be allowed.  His argument is that if the claimbased  on the covenant is disallowed it would be  unfair  tohis client not to allow any claim for rehabilitation at all.It  is clear that the claim for rehabilitation	which  couldhave  been  separately made by the company was not  so	madebecause	 it was included in the claim for the  deduction  of15%.   There  is also some force in  Mr.  Sanyal's  argumentthat, having regard to the previous awards the companies mayhave thought that the said claim would be allowed.  Since wehave  held  against the appellant in respect  of  the  majorclaim  made  on	 the  said relevant  clause  of	 15%  it  isnecessary  to  consider	 whether  the  appellant  should  beallowed	 an  opportunity to make out a	specific  claim	 forrehabilitation	and  lead evidence in support  of  the	saidclaim.Mr.  Jha, for the respondents, has resisted the	 appellant'srequest for a remand to enable it to put forward this  claimfor   rehabilitation.	 He  argues   that   the   companiesdeliberately   did   not   make	  a   specific	 claim	 forrehabilitation and chose to rest their case on the  relevantterms of the contract because they knew that914a  claim for rehabilitation would not be sustained. ln	thisconnection Mr. Jha referred us to the principles adopted  byindustrial  courts in determining the employer's claims	 forrehabilitation.	 We are not impressed by this argument.	  Itseems  to us that, if the employer was partly misled by	 theprevious  awards  and did not in consequence put  forward  aspecific  claim rehabilitation it would not be fair or	justthat  he should be precluded from making such a	 claim	evenafter  his  general  claim  for	 the  deduction	 of  15%  isdisallowed.    After  all,  the	 Full  Bench   formula	 hasrecognised  the	 existence of four items as  constituting  aprior charge on principles of social justice and if, in	 thepresent	 case, the employer failed to make out a  claim	 fordeduction  of one of the items substantially as a result  ofthe  previous  awards  passed in its favour,  he  cannot  bepenalised  as  suggested by Mr. Jha.  We  would	 accordinglyallow  the  appellant to put forward before the	 tribunal  aspecific claim under the heading of rehabilitation and	leadevidence in support of the said claim.While  we  are	sending this case back for  the	 purpose  ofdetermining the appellant's claim for rehabilitation and fordeciding two other points which we would presently indicate,it  would be useful, if we briefly refer to  the  principleswhich	are   usually  adopted	by  industrial	 courts	  inadjudicating  upon the employer's claim for  rehabilitation.It  is	not disputed before us that these  principles  wouldhave to be borne in mind by the tribunal in determining	 thevalidity  of the appellant's claim for rehabilitation  whichwe  are now permitting it to make.  It has been observed  bythe  Labour  Appellate Tribunal in Ganesh  Flour  Mills	 Co.Ltd.,  Kanpur  v. Ganesh Flour Mills Staff  Union  (1)	thatthough the employer is entitled to claim deductions from thegross  profits in respect of rehabilitation as a  matter  ofright  it  is  difficult  to  lay  down	 any  general	ruleapplicable  to	each  and every	 industry.  The	 Full  Benchformula evolved in the case of The Mill Owners	Association,Bombay	(2), was not intended to lay down any hard and	fastrule in that behalf For(1) (1952) L.A.C. 172.(2) (1950) L. L. J. 1247.915the purpose of sustaining the claim for rehabilitation theremust  be  evidence  to show the age of	the  machinery,	 theperiod during which it requires the replacement, the cost ofreplacement,  the  amount standing in the  depreciation	 andreserve fund and to what extent the funds at the disposal ofthe  company  would  meet  the	cost  of  replacement.	  InTrichinopoly  Mills  Ltd., Ramjeenagar	v.  National  CottonMills Workers' Union, Ramjeenagar (1) the appellate tribunalhas observed that for determining the total amount  requiredfor  rehabilitation it is the original cost that has  to  bemultiplied by an appropriate multiple, for instance 2.7, forthe  purpose  of ascertaining the replacement value  of	 themachinery,  buildings  and  plant.   From  the	amount	thusobtained  5%  of  the original value is to  be	deducted  asbreakdown  value.  The balance is treated as  sufficient  tocomplete  replacement of machinery and buildings.  Then	 theamounts	 in  hand under the head  of  depreciation,  generalreserve	 and  rehabilitation have to be	 totalled  and	thistotal has to be deducted from the aforesaid balance which isrequired to complete replacement of machinery and buildings.It  is the balance thus drawn that has to be spread  over  anumber	of  years, as for instance 15, for  the	 purpose  ofrehabilitation;	 in  other  words, the	balance	 has  to  bedivided	 by  15	 and the amount thus determined	 has  to  betreated as prior charge under the heading of  rehabilitationfor  the  relevant  year. (Vide The  Meenakshi	Mills  Ltd.,Madurai	 and  Manapparai v. Their Workmen(1)  ;	 The  RohtasSugar Ltd. v. Their Workmen (3) ; and The Mettur  IndustriesLtd., Mettur Dam v. The Workers (4)).  Thus the	 appellant'sclaim  for  rehabilitation  would have to be  tried  by	 thetribunal   in  the  light  of  these  decisions.    In	 theapplication of the principles discussed in these  decisions,industrial adjudication cannot adopt an inflexible or  rigidapproach; these principles will have to be applied with suchmodifications  and  adjustments as may be  found  necessary,just and expedient having regard to the evidence led by	 theparties before the tribunal and(1)(1953) L.A.C. 672.(3)(1954) L.A.C. 168, 184.(2)(1954) L.A.C. 131.(4)(1957) L.A.C. 288.916having	reward to the special-needs and requirements of	 theindustry.   This position appears to be fully recognised  bythe Labour Appellate Tribunal in these decisions themselves.There is another point on which Mr. Sanyal has requested  usto  call for a finding from the tribunal.  His case is	thatthe award of the tribunal in one material particular suffersfrom  an error apparent on the face of the record.   In	 theaward, the initial contribution to the pension fund and	 theannual contribution to the pension fund have been added backfor  both  the years in respect of all the  companies.	 Mr.Sanyal contends that the amount added back under the heading" annual contribution to the pension fund " really  includesthe  initial contribution to the said fund also, and  so  itwas erroneous to have added back a separate amount under theheading " the initial contribution to the pension fund". -Inother words, the grievance is that the amount of the initialcontribution  has been added back twice.  Mr. Jha,  for	 therespondents,  does not accept Mr. Sanyal's  contention	thatthis  is  an error apparent on the face of the	record.	  Hedisputes  the assumption made by Mr. Sanyal that the  annualcontribution  to the pension fund in each case includes	 theinitial contribution as well.  We do not propose to  expressany  opinion on the merits of this dispute.  We think it  isdesirable that the tribunal should be requested to make	 itsfinding on the question as to whether the amount of  initialcontribution has been added back twice over as suggested  bythe  appellant.	 This is the second point which we  want  toremit for the consideration of the tribunal.The  third  point  which  we  -propose	to  remit  for	 theconsideration  of the tribunal has - been raised by Mr.	 Jhafor  the  respondents.	 He argues  that  the  tribunal	 hascommitted  an  obvious	error in  allowing  a  deduction  ofstatutory depreciation to each one of the companies for boththe  years  in question and in support of  his	argument  herelies	on  the statements contained in the  report  of	 thedirectors in each case.	 As an illustration we should  referto  the	 report and accounts of the Nundydroog	Mines  (KGF)Ltd., for the917year  ended  December 31, 1953.	 In this report,  under	 theitem  " capital expenditures, it is stated that the  sum  ofRs.  13,50,000	being depreciation for the period  April  1,1951 to December 31, 1953 has now been written off.  Mr. Jhacontends  that,	 since this amount has been written  off  asdepreciation,  in calculating the available surplus for	 theyear  no  amount  should be, allowed  by  way  of  statutorydepreciation.	This  argument has been	 considered  by	 thetribunal  in  para.  20 of its award but Mr.  Jha  wants  tochallenge  the correctness of the conclusion reached by	 thetribunal.   We	would normally not have	 allowed  Mr.  Jha'srequest	 for a reconsideration of this matter; but since  ontwo points raised by the appellant we are remanding the caseto  the	 tribunal and calling for its findings on  the	saidpoints	we  think  it  right to	 allow	the  respondents  anopportunity  to re-agitate this point.	In fairness  to	 Mr.Sanyal	we  may add that he did not object  to	this  matterbeing  remitted	 to the tribunal  for  reconsideration.	  Wewould,	however, like to make it clear that in dealing	withthis  point  it	 would not be open  to	the  respondents  tocontend	 that  the  appellant  was  not	 entitled  to  claimadditional   depreciation  under  the  head   of   statutorydepreciation.	This Court has held in Sree Meenakshi  MillsLtd. v. Their Workmen (1) that additional depreciation whichis admissible under s. 10(2) (vi) of the Income-tax Act neednot   necessarily  be  allowed	by  industrial	 courts	  indetermining  the  available  surplus under  the	 Full  Benchformula.  We wish to make it clear that it would not be opento  the respondents to raise any contention on the  strengthof this decision under the issue which is being remitted  tothe tribunal at their request.It is somewhat unfortunate that, though we have held againstthe appellant on the main points urged by Mr. Sanyal  beforeus,  we cannot finally dispose of the appeal today.   It  istrue  that  it is of the utmost importance  that  industrialadjudication  should  be  dealt with  speedily	and  withoutunnecessary  delay; but in the present case we have come  tothe  conclusion that it would be fair and just to allow	 theappellant to raise(1)[1958] S.C.R. 878.918the  two points mentioned in the judgment.  That is  why  wethink it necessary that this case should be sent back to thetribunal  with the direction that the tribunal	should	makeits findings on the issues remitted to it by this  judgment.The  three  issues  on	which we want  a  finding  from	 thetribunal are:(1)In  addition to the statutory depreciation allowed,	isthe appellant entitled to claim any deduction under the headof rehabilitation, and if yes, towhat amount ?(2)Does	 the  award  in substance  add	back  the  initialcontribution  to  the  pension fund  twice  over  in  makingcalculations for ascertaining the available surplus ?(3)In allowing statutory depreciation to the appellant forthe relevant years, has the award virtually allowed the saiddepreciation  twice  over having regard to the fact  that  alarge  amount has been written off by the appellant  towardsdepreciation for the said period ?Parties	 will  be  at liberty to  lead	additional  relevantevidence.  The tribunal should consider the evidence led  bythe  parties,  hear  their learned advocates  and  make	 itsfindings on these issues.  We would also direct the tribunalto  consider whether, as a result of its findings on any  ofthe said issues, any adjustment will have to be made in	 itsfinal award.  If, as a result of its findings, the amount ofavailable  surplus is likely to be materially affected	thenthe  tribunal should indicate what the available surplus  inthat  case would be in respect of each of the  companies  inregard	to each of the two years in question.  The  tribunalshould	also  make a finding as to the amount  of  bonus  towhich the respondents would, in its opinion, be entitled  onthis altered finding as to available surplus.We desire that this appeal should be finally disposed of  assoon  as  possible; so we direct that  the  tribunal  shouldsubmit	its findings along with the evidence to be  recordedhereafter  to  this Court within three	months	from  today.Both  parties have stated to us that this matter has  to  beand would be dealt with by the Central Government IndustrialTribunal functioning919at Bangalore.  The proceedings will accordingly be  remittedto  the said tribunal.	The appellant will pay the  cost  ofremand	in any event.  Costs of the present hearing  of	 theappeal will be costs in the appeal.We  would  like to add that Mr. Sanyal	has  agreed  withoutprejudice  that	 the appellant will pay to  the	 respondentsfifteen	 days  basic  wage towards their  claim'  for  bonusduring the relevant years.Case, remanded.