PETITIONER:PANDIT RAM NARAIN	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH ANDOTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:20/09/1956BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.IMAM, SYED JAFFERMENON, P. GOVINDACITATION: 1957 AIR   18		  1956 SCR  664ACT:Tax on circumstances and property--U.P. Town Areas Act, 1914(U.P.	Act II of 1914)-S  14(1)(f)-Nexus-Whether  residencewithin	Town Area necessary condition for imposition of	 tax-Tax  imposed  under clause (f) of s. 14(1) whether  can  bejustified under clause (d)-Rule 3 whether invalid.HEADNOTE:The appellant was carrying on business, but was not residingwithin	the  Town Area of Karhal.  The Town  Area  Committeeimposed a tax of Rs. 25 on him under clause (f) of a.  14(1)of   the  U.P.	Town  Areas  Act,  1914,  being	 a  tax	  on'circumstances	and property'.	The appellant filed  a	writapplication in the High Court on the ground that there couldbe no assessment under clause (f) because he resided outsidethe jurisdiction of the Town Are& Committee.  The High Courtdismissed  the	application  taking the	 view  that  it	 wasunnecessary  to	 consider whether the tax could	 be  legallyimposed under clause (f) as the tax imposed could clearly bejustified under clause (d) of s. 14(1) which authorised	 theimposition of a tax on trades, callings or professions.Held,  that  residence	was  not a  sine  qua  non  for	 theimposition of the tax under clause (f), that the carrying onof 'business within the Town Area was a sufficient nexus forthe  imposition	 of the tax under clause (f)  and  that	 theassessment of the tax on the appellant under clause (f)	 waslegally valid.The legality of the tax imposed must be considered with ref-erence to the clause under which the assessment was actuallymade and a different clause under which the assessment mighthave fallen cannot be called in aid of the assessment.Rule 3 of the 'Rules regarding the Limitations, Restrictionsand Rate subject to which the Circumstances and Property Taxshall be levied by the Town Area Committees' framed under s.39(2)  of the Act does not go beyond s. 14(1)(f) and is	 notinvalid.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 224 of 1955.665Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedthe  7th  May  1954 of the Allahabad  High  Court  in  CivilMiscellaneous Writ No. 133 of 1952.Naunit Lal for the appellant.G.   C. Mathur and C. P. Lal for respondents Nos.  I & 2.1956.	September  20.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byS.   K.	 DAS J.-This is an appeal by special leave from	 thejudgment  and  order  of the High  Court  of  Judicature  atAllahabad dated the 7th of May 1954 by which the High  Courtdismissed an application of the appellant for the issue of awrit  of certiorari under the provisions of article  226  ofthe  Constitution.   The appeal raises the question  of	 thevalidity of the assessment of a tax on the appellant for theyear 1950-51 by the Town Area Committee of Karbal under	 theprovisions of clause (f) of sub-section (1) of section 14 ofthe  United Provinces Town Areas Act, 1914 (U. P. Act II  of1914), hereinafter referred to as the Act.The appellant resides in the town of Mainpuri and carries onthe business of plying a motor bus on hire.  The appellant'sbus plies on. alternate days between Etawah and.   Mainpuri,and the town of Karhal falls on the route between Etawah andMainpuri.   .  It  is  not  now	 disputed  that	  passengerstravelling in the appellant's bus used to get down or get inat a bus stand within the town area of Karhal; the appellanthad  a	booking	 office situate within	the  Town  Area	 andtickets	 were  issued to passengers and an  account  of	 thebusiness  was  maintained in the said booking  office.	 TheTown Area Committee of Karhal imposed a tax of Rs. 25 on theappellant  for	the  year 1950-51 under	 the  provisions  ofclause	(f)  of sub-section (1) of section 14  of  the	Act,being  a tax on 'circumstances and property'  and  assessingthe income of the appellant from his business within the86666Town  Area of Karhal at a sum of Rs. 800 for the year.	 Theappellant preferred an appeal against the assessment of	 thetax  under section 18 of the Act, and the grounds  taken  bythe  appellant	were (1) that he did not reside	 within	 thelimits of the Town Area and (2) that he did not carry on anytrade or business within that Area.  By his order dated	 the20th  October  1951'  the  Appeal  Officer  held  that	 theappellant carried on his trade or business within the limitsof  the Town Area and was therefore rightly assessed to	 taxunder  clause  (f) of sub-section (1) of section 14  of	 theAct.  He accordingly dismissed the appeal.  It may be statedhere  that the appellant was asked to submit an	 account  ofhis  income,  but  no such account  was	 submitted  and	 theassessing officer worked out the income of the appellant  atabout  Rs.  67 a month, that is, about Rs. 800 a  year.	  Noquestion about the amount of the tax has been raised  beforeus,  and  it is not necessary to say anything  further	withregard to the quantum of assessment.The  appellant	then filed a writ application  in  the	HighCourt of Judicature at Allahabad and the ground taken by himwas  that there could be no assessment under clause  (f)  ofsub-section (1) of section 14 of the Act, because he residedoutside	 the  jurisdiction of the Town	Area.	The  learnedJudge,	who  dealt with the. application of  the  appellant,took  the view that the tax imposed on the  appellant  couldclearly	 be imposed under clause (d) of sub-section  (1)  ofsection	 14  of	 the Act; therefore it	was  unnecessary  toconsider  whether  the tax could be  legally  imposed  underclause	(f) of sub-section (1) of section 14.	The  learnedJudge also expressed the view that residence within the TownArea was not a pre-requisite condition for the imposition ofthe tax under clause (d), and it was enough if the appellantcarried	 on  a trade or business within the Town  Area.	  Onthese	views,	 the  learned  Judge  dismissed	  the	writapplication.The main point which has been urged before us by 667learned	  counsel  for the appellant is that the  assessmentof   a tax under clause (f) of sub-section (1) of section   14on  the appellant was. not valid, because  residence  withinthe  Town Area was a necessary condition for the  assessmentof  a  tax under clause (f).  Learned  counsel	also  arguedbefore	us that the. assessing authority having	 assessed  atax  on the appellant under clause (f), it was not  open  tothe High Court to say that the tax was legally valid under a'different  clause, namely clause (d) of sub-section (1)  ofsection 14. With regard to his second point, learned counsel has  drawnour  attention	to  sections 15 to 17 of the  Act.   He	 haspointed	 out  that  under section 15 of the Act	 a  list  ofpersons	 liable to pay the tax imposed under section 14	 andof the amounts to be paid respectively by such persons,	 hasto  be	prepared; the list may be revised  by  the  DistrictMagistrate and has to be submitted to him for  confirmation.When so confirmed., the list can only be altered under	sub-section	 (2) of section 15 by the District Magistrate or  inpursuance of an order passed in appeal under the  provisionsof  section 18.	 We think that learned counsel	has  rightlysubmitted   that,  so  far  as	the  present  appellant	  isconcerned,  the	 list prepared under section  15  must	haveshown  him  as	assessed to a certain amount  of  tax  underclause	(f)  of	 sub-section  (1)  of  section	14  and	 theassessment  must  have been confirmed on that basis  by	 theDistrict  Magistrate.	Therefore, the legality of  the	 taximposed	 on the appellant must be considered with  referenceto the clause under which the assessment was actually  made,and a different clause under which the assessment might havefallen cannot be called in aid of the assessment.We  proceed  therefore to consider the legality of  the	 taximposed on the appellant with reference to clause (f)  ofsub-section  (1) of section 14 of the Act.  The short  pointfor  consideration  in	that context  is  whether  residencewithin	the  Town  Area is a  necessary	 condition  for	 theimposition of the tax under clause668(f). It is necessary -to read here section 14 of the Act  sofar as it is relevant to the point in question."14  (1) Subject to any general rules or special  orders  ofthe  State  Government	in this behalf, the  taxes  which  aCommittee may impose are the following:(d)  A tax on trades, callings or professions not  exceedingsuch rates as may be prescribed.(f)  A	 tax   on  persons  assessed  according	  to   theircircumstances  and  property  not exceeding  such  rate	 andsubject	 to  such  limitations and restrictions	 as  may  beprescribed: ,Provided  that such a person is not already  assessed  underclauses (a) to (e) above".It will be noticed that the power of the Town Area Committeeto impose a tax under clause (f) is subject to,' first, 'anygeneral	 rules or special orders of the State Government  inthis  behalf'  and,  secondly,	to  (such  limitations	 andrestrictions as may be prescribed'.  These restrictions	 andlimitations  are to be found in the Rules made by the  StateGovernment under section 39(2) of the Act, which are  calledRules regarding the Limitations, Restrictions and Rate	sub-ject  to which the Circumstances and Property Tax  shall  belevied	by  the	 Town  Area  Committee.	  These	 rules	werenotified by Notification No. 681-T/IX-79T-50 dated July	 20,1950.  Two of the rules are important for our purpose, viz.,rules 2 and 3. They are in these terms:"2. The tax shall be assessed on every person on whom it  isimposed,   in  two  separate  parts,  namely  (1)   on	 hiscircumstances and (2) on the property, if any, owned by him,and  the  aggregate of the sums so determined  on  both	 thecounts	shall constitute the total composite amount  payableby him as circumstances and property tax:Provided that nothing shall render it irregular669to  assess  a  person  on  only	 one'  of  the	two  'countsaforementioned	if  he does not fulfil	the  conditions	 forliability  in  respect	of that count on  which	 he  is	 notassessed.3.   (1)  The  tax  assessed  on  the  circumstances  of  anassessee  may be imposed on any person residing or  carryingon business within the limits of the town area:Provided  that	such  person has so resided  or	 carried  onbusiness  for a total period of at least six months  in	 theyear of assessment.(2)  No	 tax  shall  be imposed on any	person	whose  totaltaxable income is less than Rs. 200 per annum.(3)  The  rate of the tax shall not exceed one	anna  in  a.rupee on total taxable income.(4)  The  total amount of tax assessed on any  person  shallnot, in any year, exceed a sum of s. 250.Explanation.-(1) For purposes of this rule 'taxable  income'means  gross income accruing within the limits of  the	townarea.(ii) The  words 'carrying on business' mean the carrying  onof  any	 trade,	 profession, calling or	 other	practice  oractivity  which yields or is capable of yielding income	 butdo not include service under Government or a local body".The important point which emerges out of these Rules is thatunder  Rule  3 the tax assessed on the circumstances  of  anassessee  may be imposed on any person residing or  carryingon  business  within the limits of the town area;  in  otherwords,	two, conditions in the alternative are laid down  inRule  3, either the person must reside within the limits  ofthe town area or he must be carrying on business within	 thelimits	of the said area.  There is a third  condition	thatthe residence or carrying on of business must be for a totalperiod of at least six months in the year of assessment.  Noquestion  regarding the third condition has been  raised  inthis case and it is not necessary to consider that conditionhere.  Therefore, it is670clear  that if Rule 3 is valid, then the imposition  of	 thetax on the appellant under clause (f) is also valid, becauseon the finding not now in dispute the appellant carried on atrade  or  business within the limits of the  Town  Area  ofKarhal.	 It has been argued before us that Rule 3 is invalidbecause, under clause (f) of sub-section (1) of section	 14,residence  within  the Town Area of the person to  be  taxedunder  that clause is a necessary condition.  We are  unableto  accept this argument.  Clause (f) of sub-section (1)  ofsection	 14  does not say in express  terms  that  residencewithin	the  Town  Area is a  necessary	 condition  for	 theimposition  of the tax.	 The Rules make it quite clear	thatfor  each  of the clauses of sub-section (1) of	 section  14there  is a 'nexus' between the territorial jurisdiction  ofthe  Town Area Committee and the imposition of the tax.	  Sofar  as	 clause (d) is concerned, the 'nexus'  is  that	 thetrade,	calling or profession must be carried on within	 thelimits of the Town Area.  So far as clause (f) is concerned,Rule 3 makes it quite clear that the 'nexus' is either resi-dence  within  the limits of the Town Area  or	carrying  onbusiness  within  the same limits.  It is to  be  rememberedthat  clause (f) was inserted -by an Amending  Act,  namely,the Uttar Pradesh Town Areas (Validation and Amendment) Act,1950.	Section 1(2) of the Amending Act gave  retrospectiveeffect	to the amendments.  The proviso to clause (f)  makesit  quite clear that a person who is already assessed  underclauses	 (a)  to (e) cannot be assessed again  under  clause(f).   The proviso is intended to avoid	 multiple  taxation,but  it	 is  manifest from the proviso that  ,there  may  beoverlapping  of the different clauses in sub-section (1)  ofsection 14; for example, a person may come under clause	 (d)as  well as clause (f) if he carries on a trade	 within	 thelimits	of  the	 Town  Area.   Therefore,  the	proviso	 wasnecessary  to prevent the same person being taxed more	thanonce  under  the  different clauses of	sub-section  (1)  ofsection 14.  If residence within the limits of the Town Areawere a671sine  qua non for the imposition of a tax under clause	(f),no question of overlapping between clauses (d) and (f) wouldarise  unless  the  person to be taxed resided	as  well  ascarried	 on a trade within the limits of the Town Area.	  Ifthe  argument  of  learned  counsel  for  the  appellant  iscorrect, then the proviso to clause (f) is meaningless in sofar  as it envisages an overlapping between clause  (d)	 andclause	(f)  in other cases.  On a  proper  construction  ofclause	(f),  read  with the  limitations  and	restrictionsembodied  in the Rules made under section 39 of the Act,  itcannot be held that residence within the Town Area of Karbalwas  a necessary condition for the imposition of the tax  onthe appellant.A reference, was made to sub.;section (4) of section 15-A ofthe  Act.  Section 15-A provides for  preliminary  proposalsfor the imposition of taxes under section 14, publication ofsuch  proposals	 and the submission of	draft  rules.	Sub-section (4) states:"(4) Any, inhabitant of the Town Area may, in the prescribedmanner,	 file an objection in writing on such proposals	 andthe  committee shall take into consideration the  objectionsso filed and finally settle its proposals."Under  sub-section (4) any inhabitant of the Town  Area	 mayfile  an  objection  to the preliminary	 proposals  for	 theimposition  of taxes under section 14.	The argument  beforeus  was	 that if an inhabitant of the Town  Area  alone	 wasentitled  to file an objection to preliminary proposals	 fortaxation,  then	 in all the, clauses of sub-section  (1)  ofsection 14 residence within the Town Area must be read as  anecessary  condition for the imposition of the	taxes  undersection	 14.  This contention appears to us to	be  unsound.Firstly,  the  objection as, to	 preliminary  proposals	 fortaxation   is  not  the	 same  thing  as  objection  to	  anassessment, and it may well be that the legislature in theirwisdom	thought fit to confine the filing of  objections  topreliminary proposals for taxation to the inhabitants of theTown Area.  Secondly, there are several other672sections  of  the Act, such as section 20  and	section	 21,which  show  that  the imposition of a tax  on	persons	 notresident  within the Town Area. but having some other  nexuswithin that Area, was permissible.  Thirdly, the question ofthe  validity  of sub-section (4) of section 15-A  does	 notarise in this case.  The appellant was assessed to a tax andhe  had a right to file an appeal which right he  exercised.No  grievance was made of the failure to exercise the  rightunder  subsection (4) of section 15-A.	It is therefore	 un-necessary for us to make any pronounce ment on the  validityor otherwise of sub-section (4) of section 15-A All that  isnecessary  for us to state is that by reason of	 sub-section(4) of section 15-A, it cannot be held that residence withinthe Town Area is a necessary condition for the imposition ofa tax in all the clauses of sub-section (1) of section 14 of-the Act. Learned  counsel  for	the appellant  referred	 us  to	 twodecisions  of  'the Allahabad High  Court:  District  Board,Farrukhabad v. Prag Dutt(1) and District Board, Dehra Dun v.Damodar Dutt(2).  The second decision, which was earlier  inpoint  of  time,  arose	 out  of  a  suit  for	recovery  of'circumstances	and  property tax under the U.	P.  DistrictBoards	Act (Local Act X of 1922).  The question  there	 waswhether	 the District Board of Dehra Dun could impose a	 taxon the defendants who were not residents within the area  ofthe District Board.  It is worthy of note that under section114 of the U. P. District - Boards Act, the power of a Boardto impose a tax on circumstances and 'property is subject tothe  condition	that the tax may be imposed  on	 any  personresiding  or carrying on business in the rural	area  withinthe  District  Board.  The only question in  that  Allahabadcase  was  whether the defendants resided within  the  ruralarea  of  the District Board so as to make them	 liable	 forthe.  tax.  The finding Was that they did not reside  withinthe rural area and therefore the imposition of(1)  A.I.R. 1948 All. 382.(2)  I.L.R. [1944] All. 611.673the  tax was illegal, and section 131 of the U. P.  DistrictBoards	Act  did not bar the suit.  This decision  does	 nothelp the appellant.  If it shows anything, it shows that  itwas open to the District Board to impose a circumstances andproperty' tax on any person residing or carrying on businessin the rural area.In  the	 1948  Allahabad decision,  the	 main  question	 waswhether	 the  provisions  of  section  2,  Professions	 TaxLimitation  Act (20 of 1941) affected the  powers  conferredupon the District Board by section 108 of the U.P.  DistrictBoards Act to levy a tax on circumstances and property'.   Asubsidiary question was also raised, whether section 131  ofthe U. P. District Boards Act barred the suit.	With  regardto the main question, it was pointed out that the name givento  a tax did not matter; what had to be considered was	 thepith  and  substance of it.  It was held that  in  pith	 andsubstance the tax was one which attracted the provisions  ofsection	 2, Professions Tax Limitation Act (20 of 1941).   Atax  on 'circumstances and property' is a composite tax	 andthe word 'circumstances'. means a man's financial  position,his status as a whole depending, among other things, on	 hisincome from trade or business.	From militating against	 theprinciple that in considering the circumstances of a  personhis  income from trade or business within the Town Area	 maybe  taken into consideration, the decision approves  of	 theprinciple.  In the course of his judgment, Bind Basni PrasadJ.  referred to section 128, U.P. Municipalities Act,  1916,where 'taxes on circumstances and property' appear as a headdistinct  from the 'taxes on trades, callings and  vocationsand  employments' and the argument was that the taxes  beingunder  different heads should be treated as  being  entirelydifferent,  one	 from the other It was rightly	pointed	 outthat  it is no sound principle of construction to  interpretexpressions used in one Act with reference to their- use  inanother Act.  The meanings of words and expressions used  inan Act must take their colour from the context in which87674they  appear.	It  is	true  that  in	the  Act  under	 ourconsideration  the taxes which the Town Area  Committee	 mayimpose	appear under different heads in Sub-section  (1)  ofsection 14.  We have already stated that though the  clausesare different, the words used in the section show that theremay  be	 overlapping between the different clauses,  and  toprevent	  the  same  person  being  subjected  to   multipletaxation,  a  'proviso was incorporated in clause  (f).	  Inview of the words and expressions used in section 14 of	 theAct, we cannot accept the argument that clause (f) should beread  as  entirely independent of and unconnected  with	 theother  clauses and a different condition,  namely  residencewithin	the-Town Area, must be read as a necessary  part  ofclause	(f).  To do so will be to read in clause  (f)  wordswhich	do  not	 occur	there.	 The  limitations  for	 theimposition of a tax under clause (f) are given in Rule 3 and'residence'is only one of the alternative conditions for theimposition of the tax-not a line qua non as is contended  bylearned counsel for the appellant.In the result, we hold that the assessment of the tax on theappellant  under clause (f) of subjection (1) of section  14of  the	 Act  was legally valid.  The appeal  fails  and  isdismissed with costs.675