PETITIONER:BALLAVDAS AGARWALA	Vs.RESPONDENT:SHRI J. C. CHAKRAVARTYDATE OF JUDGMENT:15/01/1960BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1960 AIR  576		  1960 SCR  (2) 739 CITATOR INFO : R	    1968 SC 822	 (10) R	    1968 SC1339	 (6,7) R	    1969 SC 267	 (5) R	    1970 SC   7	 (3)ACT:Criminal  Trial-Prosecution  for  offence  under   MunicipalAct--Authority	to  initiate  prosecution  Delegation  of-Ifprivate	 citizen can file complaint-Calcutta Municipal	Act,1923 (Ben.  111 of 1923) ss. 12 and 537.HEADNOTE:The  appellant was convicted of selling	 adulterated  butterunder  ss.  406	 and 407 read with s. 488  of  the  CalcuttaMunicipal Act as extended to the Municipality of Howrah on acomplaint filed by the Sanitary Inspector on January 2,	 954which was signed in token of sanction by the Health  Officerof the said municipality.  The appellant contended that	 thetrial  was vitiated for want of a valid sanction because  atthe relevant time the Health Officer of the municipality didnot  have any power to sanction the prosecution.  Under	 theAct the power to institute740a  complaint  vested  in the Commissioners  but	 they  coulddelegate  the power to the Chairman and the  Chairman  couldalso  by a general or special order in	writing	 re-delegatethe  power  to	the    Vice-Chairman  or  to  any  municipalofficer.  The question of the	delegation of their power bythe  Commissioners was not specifically raised, but  it	 wasurged  that  the Chairman had by certain  subsequent  ordersrevoked the delegation in favour of the Health Officer.	 Thefirst  order  passed by the Chairman on	 February  6,  1948,delegated  to the Vice-Chairman all his powers,	 duties	 andfunctions  in  respect of seven	 departments  including	 theHealth Department.  The second order was passed on  December20,1949,  by  which the Chairman delegated  his	 powers	 andfunctions to the Health Officer to order prosecution and  tosign  prosecution sheets in respect of cases concerning	 theHealth	and  Conservancy Departments.  The third  order	 wasmade  on April 7, 1951, on the eve of the new election,	 andstated: "Till the election of Executives by the New Board  Idelegate  all my powers and functions except those that	 aredelegated to the Vice-Chairman to the respective officers ofdepartments".	After the election, the new Chairman  passedan order on July 4, 1951, delegating all his powers,  dutiesand  functions in respect of six departments  including	 theHealth Department to the Vice-Chairman.	 The last order	 waspassed on December 12, 1952, which said: "I hereby revoke myorder  dated the 4th July 1951, so far as it relates to	 theHealth Department which shall henceforth be direct under  mycharge	until  further orders.	This will take	effect	from15th  December, 1952".	The appellant urged that  the  thirdorder modified the second and placed a time limit on it	 andthat  the delegation lapsed on the expiry of the time.	 Therespondent contended that the third order did not affect thesecond	and that in any case the Health Officer	 could	filethe complaint as a private citizen.Held, (per S. K. Das and A. K. Sarkar, jj.) that the  HealthOfficer was not empowered as the duly delegated authority toinstitute criminal proceedings against the appellant on	 thedate  on which he made the complaint.  The third order	madeby the Chairman on April 7, 1951, modified the second  orderby making the delegation thereunder in favour of the  HealthOfficer	 effective  only  till	the  election  of  the	 newExecutive.   The object of the third order was to leave	 thenew  Chairman free to pass his own orders of delegation	 andnot to fetter his discretion in any way.  The orders  passedby the new Chairman did not delegate the power to the HealthOfficer.Held, further, that a complaint under the Calcutta MunicipalAct, 1923, as applied to Municipality of Howrah, can only befiled  by  the authorities mentioned therein and not  by  anordinary citizen.  Section 537 of the Act provides that	 theCommissioners  may institute, defend or withdraw from  legalproceedings  under the Act; under S. 12	 the  Commissioners,can  delegate  their  functions to  the	 Chairman,  and	 theChairman  can  in his turn delegate the same  to  the  Vice-Chairman or to any municipal     741officer. The machinery provided in the Act must be  followedin enforcing its provisions, and it is against the tenor andscheme of the Act to hold that S. 537 is merely enabling  innature.Nazir  Ahmed  v.  King Emperor, (1936)	L.R.  63  I.A.	372.referred to.Sisir  Kumar  Mitter  v. Corporation  of   Calcutta.  (1926)I.L.R. 53 Cal. 631, explained.Keshabdeo  Kedia v. P. Banerjee, Sanitary Inspector,  HowrahMunicipality.  A.I.R.  (1943) Cal. 31 and State	 v.  ManilalJethalal A.I.R (1953) Bom. 365,referred to.Cole  v. Coulten,2 Ellis &  Ellis 695, Buckler	v.   Wilson,(1896)	  1 Q.B.D. 83, The Queen v. Stewart, (1896) 1 Q.B.D.300  and  Giebler  v.  Manning, (1906) 1  K..  B  709,	heldinapplicable.The Queen v. Cubitt. (1889) 22 Q.B.D. 622, relied on.Per  Hidayatullah,  1.	The sanction  given  by	 the  HealthOfficer was valid as the delegation of authority, to him  bythe  order  of	December 20, 1949, was	not  taken  away  bysubsequent  orders.  The order of December 20,	1949,  whichspecially  conferred the power to order prosecution to	signprosecution sheets was a special order and was unaffected bythe  general order of April 7, 1951.  The later order put  atime limit only on delegations made under that order and noton orders made before.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 159  of1956.Appeal	from the Judgment and Order dated June 25, 1956,  ofthe  Calcutta  High Court in Criminal Revision	No.  870  of1956,  arising	out of the judgment and order dated  May  5,1956, of the Sessions Judge, Howrah, in Criminal Petition  8of  1956 against the judgment and order dated  February	 20,1956, of the Magistrate First Class, Howrah, in Case No. 1-Cof 1954.N.   C.	 Chatterjee S. K. Kapur and Nanak Chand Pandit,	 forthe appellant.S. C. Mazumdar, for the respondent.1960.  January 15.  Judgment of S. K. Das and A. K.  Sarkar,JJ.  was  delivered  by	 S. K.	Das,  J.,  Hidayatullah,  J.delivered a separate Judgment.I  S.  K. DAS, J.-The appellant Ballavdas Agarwala  was	 theproprietor of a restaurant in the Railway premises at HowrahRailway	 Station within the Municipality of Howrah, and	 hisservant	 Shyamlal Missir was in charge of  that	 restaurant.Under  an  agreement  with  the	 Railway  authorities,	 theappellant-742had  taken out a vendor's license dated January	 9,1952,  bywhich  he  was	permitted  to  sell  or	 exhibit  for	salesweetmeats,   betel,   bidi,  cigarettes   etc.,   but	 notspecifically  including	 butter, at the Howrah	goods  shed.On December 2, 1953, during the currency of the license, theHealth Officer of the Howrah Municipality    along with	 hisSanitary Inspector and a peon visited the establishment	 andfound that butter was being sold from glass jars standing ona table between the customers and the vendor.  The appellantwas then absent and Shyamlal was dealing with the customers.The Sanitary Inspector then took three samples from an	one-pound slap of butter which was taken out of a glass jar thatwas fully exposed to public view and which stood open on theselling counter.  The samples were taken -in clean  bottles,sealed	and labelled on the spot under a seizure list  whichShyamlal signed.  A sum of Rs. 2 was also given to  Shyamlalas  the price of the sample butter.  One of the samples	 waslater  sent  to the Health Department of the  Government  ofWest Bengal for analysis and report.  The Public Analyst  ofWest  Bengal  sent  a  report stating  that  the  butter  inquestion  was  grossly adulterated and did not	contain	 anybutter fat, and also contained a large excess of water.	  OnJanuary	 2, 1954, the Sanitary Inspector filed	a  complaintbefore	the  magistrate of Howrah asking for  the  issue  ofsummons	 to  the appellant and his servant Shyamlal  for  anoffence	 under	sections  488/406 and 407  of  the  CalcuttaMunicipal  Act,	 1923, as extended to  the  Municipality  ofHowrah.	  The complaint was signed in token of	sanction  bythe Health Officer of the Municipality.On  the aforesaid complaint, the appellant and	his  servant-were  put  on trial.  Their defence was that it was  not  acase  of  voluntary  sale, nor of a  sale  of  butter.	 Thelearned Magistrate who tried the case in the first  instanceheld  that  no case of selling adulterated butter  was	madeout,  and the reason which the learned Magistrate  gave	 forhis  finding was that the butter purchased by  the  SanitaryInspector  was not purchased from the jar from which  butterwas  being sold to other customers.  The learned  Magistrateacquitted both the accused persons.743The Administrator, Howrah Municipality, then   preferred  anapplication  in revision to the High Court of Calcutta.	 TheHigh Court set aside the order of acquittal  and ordered  aretrial by another magistrate. At  the	retrial	 severalpoints were taken on behalf of the appellant one of  whichwas that at the relevant      time the Health Officer had nopower to sanction the	 prosecution.  This time the  tryingmagistrate foundagainst	 the appellant on all  questionsof fact, and onthe question of sanction he referred  tocertain orders of the Chairman of the Municipality and	heldthat  the  power delegated to the Health Officer by  one  ofthoseorders  had not been revoked and,	therefore,  theHealthOfficer was competent to sanction the prosecution.The  appellant was accordingly convicted under ss.  406	 and407  read  with	 s. 488 of the Calcutta	 Municipal  Act	 andsentenced  to  a  fine of Rs. 200/-  or	 in  default  simpleimprisonment for 30 days.     The  appellant then moved	 thelearned Sessions    Judge  of Howrah for a reference to	 theHigh Court, but without success. An application in  revisionwas  then  moved in the High Court, but this  was  summarilydismissed  by  a Single Judge. From that  summary  order  ofdismissal,  the	 appellant  asked for and  obtained  from  aDivision Bench of the High Court a certificate for leave  toappeal to this Court under Article 134(1)(c) of		 theConstitution. While granting th certificate  Das  Gupta,  J.giving the decision of the Division  Bench said:On  the 4th July, 1951, in my opinion the Health Officer  ofthe  Municipality had no longer in him the powers  to  orderprosecution in any case regarding the	Health	  Departmentand that power was at that time	 vested in the Vice-Chairmanof  the Municipality Shri Sankar Lal Mukherjee, as a  resultof  delegation by the  Chairman by the order, Exhibit-D.  Onthe 12th  December, 1952, the new Chairman Shri K. C. Dattapassed a further order revoking his previous order dated 4thJuly, 1951, so far as it related to the Health Department.The position, therefore, after 12th December, 1952, was thatthe Chairman of the Howrah Municipality744himself	 was the only person compent to exercise the  powersof Commissioners under Section 537 of the Calcutta MunicipalAct.If,  therefore,	 the proceedings unless	 instituted  by	 theCommissioners in accordance with Section 537 of the CalcuttaMunicipal Act cannot form the legal basis of any  convictionfor  contravention  of	any  provision	of  that  law,	 theconviction  in	this  case must be held	 to  have  no  legalbasis."He  expressed the view that the question of the true  importand  effect  of	 the provisions of s. 537  of  the  CalcuttaMunicipal  Act,	 1923  was  a  question	 of  general  publicimportance which should be settled by this Court.The  present  appeal  has  come	 to  us	 on  the   aforesaidcertificate.On  behalf of the appellant it has been argued that (1)	 theappellant  was	not responsible for the	 sale,	because	 thelicence	 did not authorise the sale of butter and (2)  therewas  no	 " adulteration " of butter, because  there  was  nobutter	fat in the sample analysed.  On these two points  weare in agreement with the conclusion reached by our  learnedbrother Hidayatullah, J. and we do not think it necessary torepeat what he has said in support of that conclusion.We  proceed  now to consider the question of the  power	 andauthority of the Health Officer to sanction the	 prosecutionin  the	 present case.	On this question we have  reached  aconclusion  different from that of our learned brother.	  Itis   not  disputed  before  us	that  the   sanctioning	  ofprosecution  for  selling or storing adulterated food  is  amatter	 which	concerns  the  Health  Department   of	 theMunicipality and any delegation of powers in respect of	 theHealth	Department  will  include  the	power  to   sanctionprosecution  for selling adulterated food, unless  otherwiseexpressly stated in the order of delegation.In  the	 High Court, at the stage of the application  for  acertificate   for   leave  to  appeal,	 counsel   for	 theMunicipality relied on s. 51 of the Bengal Municipal		      745Act, 1932 for his contention that the Chairman was  entitledto exercise all the powers vested in the  Commissioners	 andcould delegate his powers to  any  other Municipal  Officer.It appears now that the	 relevant  section is s. 12  of	 theCalcutta Municipal Act,	 1923  as applied to  Howrah.  Undersub-section (1) of   s.	 12,  the  Commissioners  may  by  aresolution  passed  at	a special meeting  delegate  to	 theChairman  any of their powers, duties and  functions  'underthe  Calcutta  Municipal  Act,	1923  as  in  force  in	 theMunicipality  of Howrah or under the Bengal  Municipal	Act,1884  or under any rule or bye-law made	 thereunder.   Undersub-section  (2), the Chairman may by a general	 or  specialorder  in  writing redelegate to the  Vice-Chairman  or	 anyMunicipal  officer  any of the powers, duties  or  functionswhich  have been delegated to him by the Commissioners.	  Wemay, therefore, proceed on the basis, as did the High  Courtwith  reference to s. 51 of the Bengal Municipal  Act,	1932that the Commissioners could delegate to the Chairman  theirpowers	under  s. 537 by a resolution passed  at  a  specialmeeting, and the Chairman in his turn could redelegate thosepowers, by a general or special order, to the  Vice-Chairmanor a Municipal officer.	 The question before us is-did he doso by a valid, subsisting order at the relevant time ?The  relevant  date is the date of the complaint  which	 wasmade on January 2, 1954.  Therefore, we have to see what theposition was on that date.  The first difficulty in the	 wayof the respondent is that it led no evidence in this case toshow  that  the	 provisions  of s.  12(1)  of  the  CalcuttaMunicipal   Act,   1923	  were	complied   with,   and	 theCommissioners  by a resolution passed at a  special  meetingdelegated  their powers under s. 537 to the Chairman.	Evenif we ignore this difficulty on the ground that no  questionregarding  the	powers	of  the	 Chairman  was	raised	and,therefore,  no evidence was given on the point, there  is  asecond	and,  in our opinion,  insuperable  difficulty.	  AnOrder  Book  of	 the Chairman  of  the	Howrah	Municipalitycontaining extracts of orders passed by the Chairman of	 theMunicipality from May 9, 1938 to April 22, 1957, was95746filed  in the case.  This book is, however, of	very  littleuse  to	 us.   It  does not give the  terms  of	 the  ordersnortheir  dates.   It contains a reference to  orders  underother sections, but not under s. 537.  The five orders	withwhich  we  are concerned were exhibited	 separately  and  tothose  we  now	turn.  The first order	is  the	 one   datedFebruary  6, 1948, by which the then Chairman of the  HowrahMunicipality delegated to the Vice Chairman all his  powers,duties	and  functions	as  Chairman  in  respect  of  sevendepartments  including	the  Health  Department.   This	 wasfollowed  by  a second order passed on	December  20,  1949,which was in the following terms :"  I hereby delegate my powers and functions to	 the  HealthOfficer to order prosecution, to sign prosecution sheets  inrespect	 of  cases  concerning the  Health  and	 ConservancyDepartments."The third order came on April 7, 1951, on the eve of the newelection.   This third order, so far as it is  relevant	 forour purpose, stated:"  Till	 the  election	of Executives by  the  New  Board  Idelegate  all my powers and functions except those that	 aredelegated  to  the Vice-Chairman to respective	officers  ofdepartments."The  exact date on which the new election took place is	 notknown,	but it is admitted that some time between  April  7,1951  and  July 4, 1951, the New Executives  had  come	intobeing.	 On  July  4,  1951  the  New  Chairman	 passed	 thefollowing order :"  I  hereby delegate to the Vice-Chairman, Sri	 Sankar	 LalMukherjee,  all my powers, duties and functions as  Chairmanin  respect  of the following departments which	 are  placedunder his charge:1.   Assessment	 Department (Except power under Section	 146C. M. Act.2.   Health Department.3.   Building Department.4.   Lighting Department.5.   Accounts Department.6.  Cash Department.The fifth order was passed on December 12,1952 which said			      747I hereby revoke my order dated the 4th July, 1951, so far asit  relates to the Health Department which shall  henceforthbe  direct under my chargeuntil	 further orders.  This	willtake effect from 15th December, 1952."The  question  before  us  is-what  is	the  effect  of	 theaforesaid five orders ? It is clear that by the order  datedFebruary 6, 1948, the Chairman delegated his powers  to	 theVice-Chairman in respect of the Health	Department,  and  bythe next order dated December 20,  1949,  he  delegated	 hispowers to the Health Officer in	   respect    of     certainparticular  matters,  such  as,	 ordering  prosecution	 andsigning complaints concerning the  Health  and	 ConservancyDepartments.On April 7, 1951, however, the Chairman passed another orderwhich  imposed	a time limit by the  expression:  "Till	 theelection of the Executives by the  new Board." The  questionis  if this time limit affected the operation of the  secondorder  dated December 20, 1949 so that it would come  to  anend  with  the	election  of the  new  Executives,  and	 theposition thereafter would be governed by the orders    datedJuly 4, 1951, and December 12, 1952. Ex Facie,	  it appearsto us that the order dated April 7, 1951,    affects	 theoperation  of the second order dated December 20, 1949.	 Thetwo orders, placed side by    side,  cannot  stand  togetherunless the earlier order is   read as modified by the latterorder. The earlier order delegated the power of the Chairmanin respect of  some particular matters mentioned therein  tothe  Health  Officer  ;	 the latter  order  states  that  itdelegates all  the  powers  of the  Chairman  to  respectiveofficers  of  Departments  till	 the  election	of  the	 newExecutives.    We have emphasised the word ' all'  occurringin the	  latter  order, as it must include  the  particularpowers	  referred  to	in the earlier order. It  cannot  bethat in	  the same field the two orders will operate-one un-limited	 and  the other limited by a time  factor.  It	has,however, been submitted to us that they do not operate	  inthe same field and three reasons have been given  firstly,itis  said  that the order dated April 7, 1951, is  a  generalorder which does-not affect the order dated748December  20, 1949, which is a special order and  for  this,the  principle	of  generalia specialibus  non	derogant  isinvoked; secondly, it is said that the time limit imposed bythe order dated April 7, 1951, related to    such delegationas  is	made by that order itself; and thirdly, it  is	saidthat  if the time limit imposed by the order dated April  7,1951,  applies even to earlier administrative  orders,	thenthere  would  be great inconvenience by such  orders  comingabruptly  to  an  end  as  the	new  Executives	 come	intoexistence.We shall now deal with these reasons.  We do not think	thatthe  question is one of the application of the principle  ofgeneralia  specialibus non derogant.  Apart from  any  doubtthat may arise as to whether such a principle is  applicableto orders by which the Chairman redelegated powers delegatedto  him by the Commissioners, we think that the real  answerto  the	 question  must be found in the words  used  in	 theorder.	The order dated April 7, 1951, makes an exception infavour of the Vice-Chairman ; it says "except those that aredelegated   to	the  Vice-Chairman."  This   obviously	 hasreference  to the delegations already made in favour of	 theVice-Chairman, because the order makes no new delegation  infavour	of the Vice-Chairman.  It states in terms  that	 thetime  limit applies to all delegations except those made  infavour	of the Vice-Chairman.  Only one exception  is  made,and  if	 the  intention	 was  that  there  would  be   otherexceptions,  the order would have said so.  The	 order	doesnot say so; on the contrary, it is expressed in language  ofthe   widest   amplitude  to  include  within	itself	 alldelegations  of	 power except those made in  favour  of	 theVice-Chairman.We  are	 not  impressed by the	argument  of  administrativeinconvenience.	Obviously, the object of the order of  April7, 1951, was to leave the new Chairman free to pass his	 ownorders of delegation and not to fetter the discretion of thenew  Executives	 in any way ; that is why in the  matter  ofdelegation a time limit was imposed.We do not have in the records full details of all orders  ofdelegation made by the new Chairman.  We			  749have  only two orders dated July 4, 1951, and  December	 12,1952.  By  order  dated	 July  4,  1951,  the  new  Chairmandelegated his powers to the Vice-Chairman    in	 respect  ofsix departments including the Health	Department,   thoughthe earlier delegation in favour   of the Vice-Chairman	 wasnot subject to any time	 limit. The order dated December 12,1952, is important. It not merely revoked the order dated 4,1951, but said that "the Health Department shall hence-forthbe direct under my charge until further orders."If  earlier special orders regarding the  Health  Departmentwere subsisting on December 12, 1952, the Chairman would nothave used the words which he used on that date.We  are,  therefore, of the view that in the  absence  of  afresh order of delegation of which there is no	  evidencein the record, the Health Officer of the Howrah Municipalitywas  not  empowered  as	 the  duly  delegated  authority  toinstitute criminal proceedings against the appellant on	 thedate on which he made the complaint.Whether	 as an ordinary citizen he could file the  complainttakes  us  to the next question-are the	 provisions  s.	 537merely enabling or are they obligatory in the sense that  nolegal  proceeding under the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1923  asin  force in the Municipality of Howrah, can  be  institutedexcept in accordance with the provisions of that Act ? It isnecessary  to  read at this stage s. 537.  It  is  in  theseterms: "The Commissioners may-(a)institute,  defend,	or withdraw from  legal	 proceedingsunder  the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1923, as in force in	 theMunicipality  of  Howrah or under any rule  or	byelaw	madethereunder;(b)compound any offence against the Calcutta Municipal	Act,1923,  as in force in the Municipality of Howrah or  againstany  rule  or  bye-law	made  thereunder  which,  under	 anyenactment  for	the  time being in force,  may	lawfully  becompounded;(c)admit,  compromise or withdraw any claim made  under	 theCalcutta Municipal Act, 1923, as in750force in the Municipality of Howrah or under any  rule	  orbye-law made thereunder; and(d)  obtain such legal advice and assistance as	  they	 mayfrom time to time think it necessary or expedient to  obtainfor any of the purposes referred   to	in   the   foregoingclauses of this section, or for securing the lawful exerciseor  discharge  of any power or duty vesting in	or  'imposedupon the Commissioners or any Municipal officer or servant.On behalf of the appellant it has been urged before us	thatthe  provisions of s. 537 are obligatory, and the  principleinvoked	 in aid of this construction is that adopted by	 thePrivy  Council in Nazir Ahmad v. King Emperor (1) viz.	thatwhere  a power is given to do a certain thing in  a  certainway,  the thing must be done in that way or not at all.	  Inother  words,  the  argument  of  learned  counsel  for	 theappellant  is not that the word 'must' must  necessarily  beread  for  the	word may' in s. 537, but  that	if  a  legalproceeding  is to be instituted under the Municipal  Act  inquestion, it must be done in accordance with the  provisionsof the Act and not otherwise.  On behalf of the	 respondent,however, the contention is that s. 537 is merely enabling innature,	 as the use of the word may' shows, and the  generalprinciple  embodied  in the Code of  Criminal  Procedure  oftaking	cognisance  of an offence on a complaint by  even  aprivate person is not in any way affected by s. 537.These are the rival contentions which fall for considerationand  we	 are of the view that the construction	put  on	 thesection- on behalf of the appellant is the sounder and	moreacceptable construction.The section talks of various acts which the Commissioner maydo  and	 these acts have been put in four  categories  underclauses	 (a), (b), (c) and (d). We are	primarily  concernedwith  clause (a), which talks of three	things-"  institute,defend,	 or  withdraw  from  legal  proceedings	 under	 theCalcutta Municipal Act, 1923." It can hardly be doubted thatthe section does not compel the Commissioners to  institute,defend or withdraw from legal proceedings; for example,(1)  (1936) L.R. 63 I.A. 372 at 381.751clause (d) says "obtain such legal advice and assistance  asthey  may  from	 time  to time	think  it  necessary  or  orexpedient  to  obtain etc." This obviously  shows  that	 theCommissioners are not compelled to obtain legal advice.	  Inthe  context,  the  use	 of  the  word	may'  is   thereforeappropriate.	But  the  question  still   remains-if	 theCommissioners  wish  to do any of the acts mentioned  in  s.537,  must they do so in accordance with the  provisions  ofthe Act ? We think that they must; otherwise s. 537  becomesclearly	 otiose.   What is the necessity of s.	537  if	 theCommissioners can do the acts mentioned therein	 independentof  and	 in,% manner other than what is laid  down  therein?Learned counsel for the respondent suggested that s. 537 wasenacted	  by   way  of	abundant  caution  to	enable	 theMunicipality,  a  body	corporate, to  spend  money  on	 theinstitution of legal proceedings etc.  We are not  impressedby  this  argument.   Like all	other  Municipal  Acts,	 theCalcutta Municipal Act, 1923 has a section (section 5) whichconstitutes the Municipality into a body corporate and thereare  detailed  provisions about	 Finance,  Loans,  Accounts,Taxation  etc.	 Section 84 of the Calcutta  Municipal	Act,1923 lays down:"  84  (1)  The moneys from time to  time  credited  to	 theMunicipality  shall  be	 applied in  payment  of  all  sums,charges and costs necessary for carrying out the purposes ofthis  Act,  or	of which the payment  is  duly	directed  orsanctioned by or under any of the provisions of this Act.(2)Such	 money shall likewise be applied in payment  of	 allsums  payable  out  of the Municipal Fund  under  any  otherenactment for the time being in force."Obviously,  therefore,	no  other  separate  provision	 forexpenditure  of money in connection with the acts  mentionedin s. 537 was necessary by way of abundant caution.  We are,therefore,  unable to accept as correct the reason given  bylearned	 counsel for the respondent for the insertion of  s.537.There are other provisions of the Act which also throw	somelight on the question.	Section 531752provides for the appointment of Municipal Magistrates'	 forthe trial of offences under the Act and the rules or	bye-laws made thereunder.  Section 532 provides for	  cognisanceof offence by Municipal Magistrates having   jurisdiction inCalcutta;  section  533 gives power to hear a  case  in	 theabsence	 of  the accused person; section  534  prescribes  aperiod	of limitation for prosecution and section  535	sayswho  can make a complaint of the existence of any  nuisance.Under  s.  535	the  complaint can be  made  either  by	 theMunicipality  or any person who resides or owns property  inCalcutta.  The above provisions are followed by ss. 537, 538and  539.   Section 537 gives power to the  Municipality  toinstitute  legal proceedings etc.; s. 538 deals	 with  suitsagainst	 the  Municipality  and s. 539	provides  the  usualindemnity clause.An  examination	 of the aforesaid provisions  showsthat	 theCalcutta  Municipal  Act,, 1923 provides inter	alia  for  amachinery for proceedings before Magistrates and other legalproceedings.   All  these provisions can  have	one  meaningonly,  viz. that the machinery provided in the Act  must  befollowed in enforcing these provisions.	 It would, we think,be  against  the tenor and scheme of the  Municipal  Act  tohold that s. 537 is merely enabling in nature, and that	 anyprivate	 person may institute a legal proceeding  provisionsof the Act.We now turn to such authorities as have been brought to	 ournotice.	  We may, say at once that no decision	directly  inpoint  has  been  brought  to our notice.   It	is  well  toremember, however, that the phraseology adopted in differentMunicipal  Acts is not the same.  Some Municipal  Acts	haveadopted	 a phraseology which leaves no doubt in the  matter;e.g.  s.  375 of the Bihar and Orissa  Municipal  Act,	1922which	says-"No  prosecution  for  any	 offence  shall	  beinstituted without the order or consent of the CommissionersSection 353 of the Bengal Municipal Act, 1884 was in similarterms.	 Having regard to the phraseology so adopted,  thereare  decisions which say that the sections there  consideredwere     753obligatory and sanction or consent of the Commissioners	 wasnecessary.  We	have,  however, seen  no  decision  directlybearing on s. 537 of the Calcutta  Municipal	Act,	1923except one (to which, we shall	   presently   refer),	 andthat decision was given in an entirely different context.We  may refer first to some decisions which deal not with  aMunicipal  Act	but other Acts. Sections 82 and	 83  of	 theIndian Registration Act, 1908 have given    rise    to	   adivergence of views, which need not detain us: see Gopi Nathv. Kuldip Singh (1) Nga Pan   Gaing  v. King Emperor(2)	 andEmperor	     v. Muhammad Mehdi	and  Others (3). We  do	 notthink that the said provisions	in the	Indian	RegistrationAct,  1908 are in pari materia, and the decisions  given  onthe  terms of those sections are not of much  assistance  insolving the problem before us. There is a decision of thisCourt on which learned counsel for the respondent has placedsome reliance. Dr. Sailendranath Sinha	and    Another	  v.Josoda	Dulal  Adikary and Another(4). That  decision  dealtwith ss. 179 and 237 of the Indian Companies  Act, 1913	 andit was held that there was    nothing	in  those   sectionswhich indicated that if a     liquidator took action withouta direction of the court,     that  action would be  illegalor invalid. The decision proceeded  on	the  terms  of	 thesections there considered     and   is	 of   no   help	  inconstruing s. 537 of the Calcutta  Municipal Act, 1923.Now, we come to the decisions under the Municipal Act.	  InSisir Kumar Mitter v. Corporation of Calcutta	  it	 wasobserved :"Section 537 of the Calcutta Municipal Act, as	  we	readit, is merely an enabling section, and the   powers    giventhereunder to do the various acts  specified therein can, inour opinion, only be exercised	   in  accordance  with	 theprovisions of the- Code of    Criminal Procedure."Learned	  counsel  for	the  respondent	 relies	  on   theseobservations  in  support  of his contention  that  the(1) (1885) 1 L.R. 11 Cal. 566.	(2) (1926) I.L.R. 4  Rangoon437.(3) (1934) I.L.R. 57 All. 412.	(4) A.I.R. 1959 S.C. 51.(5)  (1926) I.L.R. 53 Cal. 631.96754provisions  of s. 537 are merely enabling provisions. It  isworthy	of  note,  however, that the  precise  question	 fordecision in that case was entirely different.  The  questionthere raised was whether the provisions of   s.	 248 of	 theCriminal Procedure Code were affected or abrogated by s. 537of  the Calcutta Municipal Act. What happened in  that	casewas  that the Sanitary Inspector of the Corporation  as	 thecomplainant   filed  a	petition  of  withdrawal   but	 themagistrate  rejected the application.  On a later  date	 theaccused	 was  absent,  and a warrant of	 arrest	 was  issuedagainst him.  The accused then moved the High Court, and themain  ground  taken  was that  the  magistrate	should	haveallowed	 the  withdrawal;  because s. 537  of  the  Calcutta-Municipal Act must be held to have modified the  provisionsof  s.	248 of Criminal Procedure Code and  taken  away	 thediscretion of the magistrate not to permit withdrawal of thecase.	This contention was negatived, and it was held	thats. 248 of Criminal Procedure Code was- neither abrogated normodified  by s. 537 of the Calcutta Municipal Act.   It	 wasincidentally observed that the Corporation being a  creatureof  the statute, it was necessary to give it specific  powerto institute, defend or withdraw from legal proceedings.  Wedo  not	 read  the decision as deciding the  question  if  aprivate	 person can institute a legal proceeding  under	 theCalcutta Municipal Act independent of the provisions of thatAct.   It  decided  merely the short point that	 s.  248  ofCriminal Procedure Code was not modified nor abrogated by s.537  of the Calcutta Municipal Act; this clearly was  right,because	 s.  537  does not compel  the	Municipality  to  towithdraw  from	a legal proceeding nor does  it	 impose	 anyobligation  on	the Court to accept  such  withdrawal.	 Theother  observation made therein appear to us to	 be  obiter,and it is unnecessary for us to consider the correctness  ofthose observations, though learned counsel for the appellantrelying	 on The Minister of Works and Planning v.  Hendersonand  Others  (1)  has  contended  that	the  mere  fact	  ofincorporation	without	 reservation  confers  on   a	bodycorporate  the	privilege of suing and the liability  to  besued.(1) (1947) 1 K.B. 91.755The next decision is that of Keshabdeo Kedia v. P. Banerjee,Sanitary Inspector, Howrah Municipality(1). This -related tos. 535 of the Calcutta Municipal Act, and it was held that amagistrate  was not entitled to act under s. 535(2)  upon  acomplaint  filed by the Sanitary Inspector in  his  personalcapacity  in  the absence of anything to show  that  he	 wasauthorised  by	the  Chairman of  the  Municipality  or	 wascomplaining  on	 behalf of the Municipality  or	 resided  orowned	property  in  Calcutta.	 This  decision	 helps	 theappellant  to the extent that it holds that the right  of  aprivate person to make a complaint is cut down by s. 535.In The State v. Manilal Jethalal    (2),  ss. 481 and 69  ofthe  Bombay  Provincial Municipal Corporations	Act  (59  of1949)  came  in for consideration. Section 481 of  that	 Actgave  the  Commissioner power to "take", or  withdraw  from,proceedings  in	 respect of an offence committed  under	 theAct.  The  complaint  in that case was filed  by  the  JillaInspector,  and the argument was that he was not  authorisedby  the Commissioners to "take" proceedings.  This  argumentwas dealt with in the following observations:"Now, it is quite true that the object of s. 69, sub-s. (1),is to empower the Commissioner to delegate his powers  underthe  Act to other Municipal officers, with a view  that	 theCommissioner  may  not	himself be  burdened  with  duty  ofdeciding  whether  any	action should  be  taken  against  aperson, who, it is alleged, has committed an offence  eitheragainst the Act or the rules.  It is also true that wheneverthe Act gives any power to a Commissioner, the power must beexercised  by  him,  or	 by an officer,	 to  whom  the	Com-missioner's  power is delegated under the provisions  of  s.69.   But  we  do  not think that it  would  be	 correct  torestrict  the  meaning of the words  "take  proceedings"  toactually  filing a complaint.  The object of s. 481 is	thatwhenever  it  is alleged that any person  has  committed  anoffence	 under the Municipal Act, or under the rules  framedunder  the Act, he should not be prosecuted,  unless  eitherthe Commissioner himself(1) A.I.R. (1943) Cal. 31.(2) A.I.R. (1953) Born. 365.756or  some  responsible  officer has  had	 an  opportunity  ofapplying   his	mind  to  the  question	 as  to	 whether   aprosecution should or should not be instituted.	 But   oncethis has been done, there does not seem to be any particularnecessity   for	 requiring.  that,  if	it  is	decided	  toprosecute,  the	 complaint must actually be  lodged  by	 theCommissioner,  or  the	officer,  to  whom  his	 powers	 aredelegated.   It	 is  quite  true  that	that  words  "	takeproceedings"  may mean to lodge the complaint oneself.	 Butwe  think  that that is not the only meaning  which  can  begiven to these words.  It also means to do an act by which aprosecution would be lodged."This  decision also help the appellant in so far as it	laysdown   that   whenever	the  Act  gives	 any  power   to   aCommissioner,  the power must be exercised by him, or by  anofficer, to whom the Commissioner's power is delegated.	 Thedecision  proceeded,  however, on a  somewhat  wide  meaninggiven  to  the words " take proceedings" that  part  of	 thedecision,,  as to the correctness of which we  say  nothing,does  not concern us here, because the words used in s.	 537-of the Calcutta Municipal Act are different.Our attention has been drawn to four English decisions wherea  private person was held competent to make a complaint  inrespect	 of  (1) consumption of refreshments  in  places  ofpublic resort, (2) sale of margarine" (3) acts of cruelty toanimals	 and (4) sale of unsound meat: Cole v. Coulton	(1);Buckler v. Wilson (2); The, Queen v. Stewart (3); Giebler v.Manning	 (4).	All these four decisions  proceeded  on	 theterms of the statutes under which the offences were  allegedto  have been committed and it was held that those  statutesdid not contain any provisions which made it obligatory thatthe complaint should be made by a particular authority in  aparticular  manner.  They do not really help the  respondentto  establish  his  contentions that in	 spite	of  s.	537,Calcutta  Municipal  Act, a private person can	institute  alegal proceeding under the said Act.  They take us back(1) 2 Ellis & Ellis 695; 121 E.R. 261.	(2) (1896) 1  Q.B.D.83.(3) (1896) 1 Q.B.D. 300.       (4) (1906) 1 K.B. 709.751to the point from which we started; namely, what  is	 thetrue nature and import of s. 537 of the Calcutta   MunicipalAct. If it is obligatory in the sense	 explained  earlier,the  appellant	is  entitled to succeed.  If  it  is  merelyenabling,  then the respondent is entitled to succeed.	 Thedecision in The Queen v. Stewart (1)on which learned counselfor  the  respondent  strongly	    relied,   dealt with theprovisions  of	the  Diseases  of  the	Animals	 Act,  1894.Lindley, L.J. said:"  Reading those sections together, they in fact affirm	 theright  of  any	person	to prefer  an  information  in	mostsignificant  terms.   Is there anything in the	Act  or	 theOrder which so clearly restricts that right that we ought tosay that in this case no one but the borough council had theright to take proceedings?  I can find nothing of the kind."Giebler	 v. Manning (2) was decided on the terms of  s.	 47,sub-s.	(2) of the Public Health (London) Act, 1891 and	 thequestion  was-could a private person  institute	 proceedingsunder  s. 47, sub-s. (2) ? -Lord Alverstone C.	J.  answeredthe question in the following observations:" Having regard to the object of the statute, the protectionof  the	 public against the offering of	 diseased  meat	 forsale,  I  think that if it had been intended  to  limit	 theright to take proceedings for the recovery of penalties to alimited	 class	of  persons, such as  medical  officers	 andsanitary  inspectors, words would have been introduced	intothe  section taking away from private persons the  right  tolay informations under the section."Lastly,	 there is the decision in The Queen v.	Cubitt	(3).This was a case under the Sea Fisheries Act, 1883 (46 and 47Vict.  c. 22), s. 11 of which said: "The provisoes  of	thisAct............	 shall be enforced by seafishery  officers."It  was held that the effect of the above words was that  noone  except  a sea-fishery officer could  prosecute  for  anoffence against the Act and a rule calling upon the justicesto  hear and determine a summons for an offence against	 theAct taken out by a private individual, was discharged.	LordColeridge, C. J. observed:(1) (1896) 1 Q.B.D. 300.     (2) (1906) 1 K.B. 709.(3)  (1889) 22 Q.B.D. 622.758any  one  may enforce the Act, s. 11 is useless.  I  do	 notthink	 that	 negative    words    are    required	  toexclude	 proceedings  by  persons  other  than	 sea-fisheryofficers.   For	 instance,  if	an  Act	 provided  that	 theAttorney-General was to sue for a penalty, no one else couldsue for it; it is obvious that if everyone could sue for thepenalty	 the Attorney-General could sue for it, so  that  onthat  view  of the statute the clause enabling	him  to	 suewould be unnecessary and useless."On  a parity of reasoning, if anybody can institute a  legalproceeding under the Calcutta Municipal Act, s. 537 -thereofbecomes practically useless.  Even without that section, theMunicipality could do the acts specified therein, and it  isdifficult to understand the necessity of a provision like s.537  unless  the  intention was to confer  a  power  on	 theMunicipality  which  power must be exercised  in  accordancewith the provisions of the Act and not otherwise.It was faintly suggested that the absence of a complaint  bythe  Commissioners  or	the Chairman  or  a  duty  delegatedauthority  was a mere error or irregularity which  could  becured under s. 537 Criminal -Procedure Code.  Our  attentionwas also drawn to s. 79 of the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1923.In  the	 view which we have taken the absence  of  a  propercomplaint was not a mere defect or irregularity; it affectedjurisdiction and initiation of proceedings.For  these  reasons, we allow the appeal and set  aside	 theconviction  and sentence passed against the appellant.	 Thefine, if paid, must be refunded to the appellant.HIDAYATULLAH  J.-In  this appeal which has been filed  on  acertificate  of	 fitness  under	 Art.  134  (1)(c)  of	 theConstitution  granted  by  the	Calcutta  High	Court,	 theappellant  challenges his conviction under ss. 406  and	 407read with s. 488 of the Calcutta Municipal Act as applied toHowrah,	 and  the sentence of fine of Rs. 200  (in  default,simple imprisonment for 30 days).The  appellant, Ballabhdas Agarwala, is the proprietor of  achain  of  restaurants, and one such restaurant	 is  at	 theHowrah Railway Station.	 He had759entered	 into an agreement with the railway, and  had  takenout a vendor's licence No. 54 of 1951 datedJanuary	9,1952, by which he was permitted to sell or exhibit     forsale, sweetmeats, betel, bidi, cigarettes, tea,	 cake, breadand biscuits and parched gram at      Howrah   goods	shedbetween January 6, 1951 and December 31, 1953.On December 2,1953, the Health Officer, a Sanitary Inspectorand a peon of the Howrah Municipality	visited		 therestaurant, whore the servant of the	appellant,	 oneShyamlal Missir, was in charge. Onthe counter, there was  ajar containing " butter ". This ,butter " was being sold  tocustomers. TheSanitary Inspector took three samples of this"  butter " from an one-pound slab and put them	 into  threeclean  bottles, which were sealed and labelled.	 Missir	 waspaid Rs. 2 as the price. One bottle was left with Missir  asrequired  by the rules. Of the remaining -two  bottles,	 onewas sent for analysis of the sample, to the Public  Analyst,West Bengal. On the report of the Analystthat the sampledid not contain any butter fat at alland   contained   anexcess of water, the Health Officeraccorded    sanctionfor  the  prosecution  of  the	appellant  and	Missir.	 Thecomplaint was signed by the   Sanitary Inspector as well  asthe Health Officer.The  case was tried summarily, and the Magistrate  acquittedboth the accused, because, in his opinion, the samples	weretaken not from the jar from which butter was being sold	 tothe other customers but from another  jar. The High  Court,however, set aside the order, and the case was retried. Itresulted in theconviction    and   sentence   of    theappellant,  as stated above. The Sessions  Judge  (appellatejurisdiction)  who  was moved by a criminal motion  rejectedthe  motion.  The  appellant then moved the  High  Court  inrevision,   but	  Debabrata  Mookerjee,	 J.   dismissed	  itsummarily. The appellant applied for and	  obtainedacertificate  of	 fitness  under	 Art. 134  (1)	(c)  of	 theConstitution and filed this appeal.Three  points were argued before us. The first was  that  bythe terms of the agreement and licence,the  appellant	wasnot authorised to sell butter, and760thus he was not responsible for the sale in question. It wascontended  that the sale might have been made by  Missir  onhis own account.  This contention is	without	  substance.That  there  was  a  sale  of  the  seized  article  at	 therestaurant  of the appellant goes without saying.   Sections406 and 407 of the Calcutta	   Municipal  Act  make	 thesale  of adulterated or misbranded article an  offence,	 andevery person who sells such article directly or	 indirectly,himself or by any other person is liable.  Even though	suchsale  might be outside the permit of the  vendor's  licence,the  seized  article was, in fact, sold.  The words  of	 thesections  vicariously fasten the responsibility on  -mastersfor  the acts of the servants, and the maxim, qui facit	 peralium  facit per se applies.  The finding is that  the	salewas for and on behalf of the proprietor, and in view of	 the-clear words of the section, he would be answerable.Next, it was argued that this was not a case of adulteration" at all, because there was, in fact, no butter fat, in	 thesample	analysed.  Reference was made to a decision  of	 thePunjab High Court in Mangal Mal v. The State (1) in  supportof  the	 contention that the prosecution for the sale  of  "adulterated " butter was defective.  No doubt, the  ordinarysense of " Adulteration " connotes the mixing of deleteriousor  other  substance with the main basic  article;  but	 thedefinition in the Act has been widened to include even thosearticles  where	 the  contents	do  not	 include  the  basicsubstance  either  wholly  'or	partly.	  In  view  of	 thedefinition, this line. of criticism was rightly not pressed.The  last  point is the main argument in this case,  on	 thestrength  of  which  the  certificate  was  obtained.	 Theargument  is  that the complaint presented to the  Court  inthis  case  was by an unauthorised person and  was  thus  nocomplaint at all.  The argument embraced a consideration  ofcertain	 sections  of the Calcutta Municipal Act,  1923,  asapplied to Howrah and of the Bengal Municipal Act, 1932, andthe  notifications issued under them.  The first section  towhich reference(1)  A.I.R. 1952 Pun. 140.	    761was  made  is s. 537 of the Calcutta Municipal	Act  in	 itsapplication  to	 Howrah	 Municipality. It  reads  thus:"The Commissioners may-(a) institute, defend or withdraw from legal	 proceedingsunder  the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1923, as in force in	 theMunicipality  of  Howrah or under any rule  or	by-law	madethereunder;(b) compound any offence against the Calcutta Municipal Act,1923, as in force in the Municipality	of Howrah or againstany rule or by-law made	 thereunder    which,	under	 anyenactment  for	the  time being in force,  may	lawfully  becompounded;(c)  admit, compromise or withdraw any claim made under	 theCalcutta Municipal Act, 1923, as in	force	  in	 theMunicipality  of  Howrah or under any rule  or	by-law	madethereunder; and(d) obtain such legal advice and assistance as they	 mayfrom time to time think it necessary or expedient to obtain,for  any of the purposes referred to in the	   foregoingclauses of this section, or for securing the lawful exereiseor discharge of any power or duty  vesting  in	or   imposedupon the Commissioners or any municipal officer or  servant."It is contended for the appellant that the   Commissionersare the only body of persons who could	have instituted	 thecomplaint. In reply, it is pointed out	that under s. 12  ofthe Calcutta Municipal Act as applied	 to   Howrah,	 theCommissioners can delegate    their functions to a  Chairmanby a resolution passed	 at  a	special	 meeting,  and	 theChairman can also by	 a  general  or	 special  order	  inwriting,  re-delegater	any of the delegated powers  to	 theVice-Chairman  or  to any municipal officer. This  power  ofdelegation authorises both the Commissioners as well as	 theChairman to delegate or re-delegate, as the case may	 be,their  powers  under  the Bengal  Municipal  Act  also.	 TheDivisional Bench of the Calcutta High Court  referred to  s.51 of the Bengal Municipal Act, 1932 as enabling delegation,but that section has no application,	in   view   of	 theprovisions of s. 542 of the Calcutta	Municipal Act, whichrepeals s. 51 of the Bengal97762Municipal Act in its application to the Howrah Municipality.I have thus only s. 12 of the Calcutta	Municipal Act in itsapplication  to the Howrah Municipality to consider, and  assummarised above, it	 permits  delegation of powers	fromthe  Commissioner to the Chairman and from the	Chairman  tothe  ViceChairman or any other officer of the  Municipality.It  was	 by  virtue of this section that  the  Chairman	 waspresumably delegated the powers of the Commissioners, thoughno proof has been given in this case.  No point was made  ofthe lack of this evidence, and I need say nothing about	 it.If  it	had  been raised, the  prosecution  would  have	 ledevidence,  if available.  But without this objection  havingbeen raised at an appropriate stage, it is impossible to saynow  that  it is well-founded.	It is, however, in  the	 re-delegation  of	the powers from the Chairman  to  the  otherofficers of the Municipality that the question, whether suchdelegation was existing on the date on which the prosecutionwas initiated against the appellant, has arisen.A number of notifications must now be set out, because it iscontended  that	 the later notifications rescind  or  modifythose issued earlier: "Howrah Municipality order.I  hereby  delegate to the Vice-Chairman, Dr.  Beni  ChandraDutta,	all my powers, duties and functions as	Chairman  inrespect of the following departments which are placed  underhis charge:-2. Health	Department.The 6th February, 1948.		  S. K. Mukherji,Chairman.			    11.		    Howrah Municipality.			   Order.I  hereby  delegate my powers and functions  to	 the  HealthOfficer to order prosecution, to sign prosecution sheets  inrespect	 of  cases concerning the  Health  and	ConservatoryDepartments.			763The 20th December, 1949. S. K. Mukherjee, Chairman.		    IIIHowrah Municipality.Order,Till the election of Executives by the New Board I  delegateall my powers and functions except those that are  delegatedto    the   Vice-Chairman   to	 respective   officers	  ofdepartments.........The 7th April, 1951.		   S. K. Mukherji,			 Chairman.			    IV.		    Howrah Municipality.			   Order.I  hereby  delegate to the Vice- Chairman,  Sri	 Sankar	 LalMukherji, all my powers, duties and functions as Chairman inrespect of the following departments which are placed  underhis charge. ............................................................2. Health Department. ............................................................The 4th July, 1951.		    K. C. Dutta,			Chairman.  "It  is	admitted  in  this case that  the  election  of	 theExecutives by the New Board took place between April 7, 1951and July 4, 1951.			     V.		    Howrah Municipality.			   Order.I hereby revoke my order dated the 4th July, 1951, so far asit  relates to Health Department which shall  henceforth  bedirect under my charge until further orders.  This will takeeffect from 15th December, 1952.The 12th December, 1952.	  (Sd.) K. C. Dutta,			Chairman.  "This was the position of the Orders on December 2, 1953 (thedate  of the offence) and also on January 5, 1954, when	 thecomplaint was filed.Now,  the municipal corporation is a collection of  persons,and  is	 invested with a legal personality  by	the  statuteunder which it is created.  The statute764  gives it perpetual succession and a power to act  in	manyways.	Among,	its multifarious functions  is	an  inherentpower  to  sue	or be sued by its corporate  name,  but	 thestatutes creating such corporations	aggregate    provideexpressly  for such power.  In the absence of  provision  tothe contrary, the body	 corporate in such matters must	 actas  a  corporation. The inconvenience of having	 the  entirebody  to  meet	and -decide upon every	individual  case  isapparent, and the law, therefore, provides for delegation ofthe  functions of the body corporate to the  Chairman.	Eventhere, the burden on the Chairman's time would be  enormous,and  thus the law enables him to re-delegate, in  his  turn,his  delegated powers to others. Section 12 of the  CalcuttaMunicipal  Act enables the Chairman to delegate his  powers,duties	or  functions	to  the	 Vice-Chairman	or  to	 anymunicipal  officer.  Such officers are to  be  distinguishedfrom mere servants who carry out orders but do not  exercisedefinite Municipal do. This distinction was made in Abbott'sCorporations,  Vol.   11, p. 1456 etc., and is to  be  foundreflected also in the Act under consideration.An officer of the municipality must himself perform his themto others, unless expressly authorised in this behalf.	 TheAct  does  not	so empower the officers	 to  delegate  theirfunctions  in  their turn, and thus an officer to  whom	 thepower  is  delegated  by  the  Chairman	 must  perform	themhimself.  A glance at the Act under consideration will	showthe  numerous  functions  with which  the  Act	invests	 theChairman.   In addition, the Chairman is invested  with	 thefunctions   delegated	by  the	 Commissioners.	   In	mostmunicipalities (if not all), the Chairman maintains an orderbook  in  which	 he designates the  officers  to  'whom	 hisfunctions  are	delegated.  In the present case,  there	 areextracts from the orders of the Chairman from May 9, 1938 toApril  22,  1957  (Ex.	A).  These extracts  show  only	 thepowers and functions delegated to the Engineer, Water  WorksOverseers,  and	 they run the course of	 thirteen  pages  ofsmall print in the Paper Book and involve one hundred			    765and   thirty-seven  special  delegations.   If	 the   wholebook were to be before us, these special delegations	willshow an enormous number of specially delegate,.	     powers.     These  functions  cannot be performed by  any  but	 theofficers concerned and are not taken away every	  time	 theChairman passes an order investing by a general	 order	 hisfunctions, in the Vice-Chairman, or	withdraws them	fromhim. Notification No. 11 quoted	   above   was	 a   specialdelegation, and would presumably   figure in the order	bookas an item in the duties of the	   Health Officer  speciallydelegated to him. After this  delegation, it was the  HealthOfficer and Health Officer    alone who could exercise	thispower.It  is contended, however, that the Order of April  7,	1951(No.  111) led to the cancellation of the Order of  December20, 1949 (No. 11), or at least imposed a     time limit tillthe election of the new Board. I am	afraid this is not acorrect interpretation of the	   No  doubt,  the  Chairmanstated that he delegated all  his  powers and  functions  tothe respective officers of    the   departments	  till	 theelection of the new Board;    but   the	 officers   of	 theDepartment are invested with  both    administrative	 andspecial powers. In my opinion,	   a  distinction  must	  bemade between delegation of a  power to do special acts by  aspecial	 order, and delegation of a general character  whichcan only be interpreted	 generally    as    applicable	  toadministrative control.	 Section 12 itself contemplates	 twokinds of orders, and	 it  cannot  be	 gainsaid  that	 theOrder of December 20,	 1949 (No. 11) was a special  Order,while the Order of  April 7, 1951, was a general one.The first Order (No. 1 dated February 6, 1948) delegated allthe  powers  of the Chairman in respect of  the	 Health	 andother Departments to the Vice-	   Chairman. It did not meanthat the order book (Ex. A) came to an end; nor did it	meanthat from February  6,	1948, it was the  Vice-Chairman	 whoalone	  could	 do  all that is mentioned in  the  thirteenpages printed in the Paper Book and what is presumably thereregarding other departments. Delegation of   administrativepowers is one thing, and delegation of766power to do some specific act or acts is quite another.	 Thegeneral	 order in favour of the Vice-Chairman (No. 1)  wouldnot cut down the special orders of the	Chairman.	 Thegeneral	 order cannot be read as  special,because  generaliaverba sunt generaliter intelligenda, and generalities  neverderogate  from specialities.  It only granted the  residuarypowers	which  were not covered by the	special	 delegationsfrom  time to time.  No doubt, the word used is	 "all",	 butthe whole intent and purpose of the delegation must be bornein mind.  Qui haeret in litera haeret in cortice.  (Broome'sLegal	Maxims,	  9th	Edn.,  p.  443).    The	  rules	  ofinterpretation	 of   statutes	 only	follow	 rules	  ofinterpretation of deeds and instruments and not vice versa.To  hold  otherwise  would  mean that  after  the  order  ofFebruary  6, 1948 (No. 1), all functions, duties and  powersincluding  those  specifically mentioned in the	 order	bookcame  to be centred in the Vice-Chairman.  It was  he  alonewho could inspect and examine house drains (s. 275), approvethe  site and position of the cesspools (s. 279),  issue  orserve  notices	(s. 503), inspect the service  pipes  (R.  5(3)), examine the water pipes (R. 6)so on and so forth.	 Andyet,  this would be the effect of the Order of	February  6,1948,  if the effect of the Order of April 7, 195 1, on	 theOrder  of December 20, 1949, is, as is claimed.	 It  may  becontented  that if that is the effect of the Order,  we	 candeclare	 it to be so ; but one reaches this result  only  ifone  disregards the distinction between special and  generalorders, and there is no principle of interpretation on whichit can be rested.The  special  delegation order of December 20,	1949,  couldonly come to an end if it was withdrawn either expressly  orby necessary implication.  No doubt, it was a delegation  byMr. s. K. Mukherjee, and he ceased to hold office later; butthe  delegation	 made by him would not fall by	that  reasonalone.	The delegation was not personal to Mr. Mukherjee butwas  made by virtue of office and it could only cease to  beoperative  if  cancelled  in the same  manner  by  the	sameofficeholder or his successor.	It was, however, argued thatit came to an end because of a time limit imposed by     767the Chairman by his Order of April 7, 1951 (No. 111).	ThatOrder stated that powers and functions	except	       thosedelegated to the Vice-Chairman were to be    exercised	tillthe election of the Executives by the new    Board. But	 thetime-limit was imposed on     powers	delegated  by	thatOrder. This is clear from the language	employed :"  Till	 the  election	of Executives by  the  New  Board  Idelegate  all  my powers and functions......  to  respectiveofficers of departments."The contention is that this Order had the effect of imposinga  time-limit  on all delegations made	even  before.	Thisgeneral	 order did not have this effect on a  special  orderfor  the  reasons stated.  The delegation of  the  power  toorder  prosecution  and	 to  sign  prosecution	sheets	 wasspecially  conferred by the Order of December 20, 1949	(No.11),  and was not revoked by the general order	which  couldnot be read specially ; nor was it intended that this  powerwas  to have a time limit.  By "officers of the	 department"was  not  meant	 the officers on whom  special	powers	wereconferred to do special acts.  The Order quoted above is  ingeneral	 terms, and puts a timelimit on the delegation	madeby  that  order.   It says nothing about  delegations  of  aspecial kind already in existence, or that the general orderwas to be in supression of all special orders.	It does not,in  terms, seek to affect them either expressly or  even  byimplication.  In my opinion, the special delegation made  bythe  Order  of	]December  20,	1949  (No.   11),   remainedunaffected, and thus enables the Health Officer to file	 thecomplaint.In  this  view of the matter, it is  unnecessary  to  decidewhether	 s.  537  of the Calcutta Municipal  Act  is  merelyenabling  or  mandatory,  and whether in the  absence  of  aproper	delegation, the Health Officer or other officers  ofthe Municipality or any private person could have  initiatedthe prosecution in such a case.I  would, therefore, hold that the appeal has no force,	 andthat it should be dismissed.		       ORDER OF COURTIn  view  of  the judgment of the  majority  the  appeal  isallowed.Appeal allowed.     768