PETITIONER:MESSRS BASANT LAL BANARSI LAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:BANSI LAL DAGDULALDATE OF JUDGMENT:30/11/1960BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.MUDHOLKAR, J.R.CITATION: 1961 AIR  823		  1961 SCR  (2) 780ACT:Forward	  Contracts  in	 Oilseeds--If  illegal	in   GreaterBombay--Bombay	Forward	 Contracts Control Act,	 1947  (Bom.LXIV  of 1947), s. 3--Essential Supplies (Temporary  Powers)Act, 1946 (XXIV of 1946), s. 8.HEADNOTE:Various	 contracts for sale of goods had been  made  betweenthe parties in Bombay each of which contained an arbitrationclause.	  Disputes having arisen in March, 1952, in  respectof these contracts, they were referred to arbitration and  acomposite  award  was made on October 7, 1952,	against	 therespondent.   One  of  these disputes had arisen  out  of  aforward	 contract in groundnuts.  The respondent applied  tohave  the  award set aside on the ground  that	the  forwardcontract  in groundnuts was illegal as such a  contract	 wasprohibited  by the Oilseeds (Forward  Contract	Prohibition)Order, 1943, issued under the Essential Supplies  (TemporaryPowers)	 Act, 1946, passed by the Central Legislature.	 Theappellant  contended that the Essential Supplies  (TemporaryPowers)	 Act,  1946,  was repugnant to	the  Bombay  ForwardContracts  Control  Act,  1947,	 passed	 by  the  ProvincialLegislature  of Bombay which had received the assent of	 theGovernor-General  of India and therefore under s. 107(2)  ofthe Government of India Act, 1935, which applied, the BombayAct prevailed in Bombay in preference to the Central Act andunder  the  Bombay  Act Forward Contract  in  groundnut	 wasvalid.	 The  High  Court accepted  the	 contention  of	 therespondent and set aside the award.Section	 8 of the Bombay Act provided: "Every  forward	con-tract for the sale or purchase of, or relating to, any goodsspecified  in  the  notification under	sub-section  (3)  ofsection 1 which is entered into, made or to be performed  inany  notified  area shall be illegal if it  is	not  enteredinto,  made or to be performed" and thereafter, set out	 themanner in which and the persons between whom such  contractscould  be  made and also made punishable a person  making  acontract declared illegal.Section 3 of the Central Act provided, "The Central  Govern-ment may by notified order provide for prohibiting trade andcommerce"  in any essential commodity.	Under  this  sectionthe Oilseeds (Forward Contract Prohibition) Order was passedprohibiting  forward contracts in groundnuts, which was	 oneof the essential commodities specified in the Central Act.Held,  The Bombay Act did not make any contract legal.	 Itsonly effect was to render certain forward contracts  illegalif not781made in compliance with its terms while the Central Act madethe  contracts	to which it applied,  illegal.	 There	was,therefore,  no	repugnancy between the Bombay  Act  and	 theCentral Act and both of them applied to Bombay.Article	 372 of the Constitution continued both these  Acts,and so there is no provision in the Constitution under whichany one of them may be said to apply to the exclusion of theother.A composite award in respect of more than one dispute  whichis not severable, must be set aside as a whole if any of thedisputes had been illegally referred.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 264 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the Judgment and	Order  datedJune  29, 1954, of the Bombay- High Court in Appeal No.	 127of 1953.A. V. Viswanatha Sastri, Hemendra Shah, S. N. Andley,  J. B.Dadachanji,   Rameshwar	 Nath  and  P.	L.  Vohra,   for,theAppellant.J.   C.	  Bhatt,  C.  J.  Shah	and  Naunit  Lal,  for	 theRespondent.1960.  November 30.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbySARKAR,	 J.-The	 appellant is a commission agent  and  puccaaratiya and has been acting as such for the respondent sinceNovember  7, 1951, in the course of which various  contractswere  made between them in Greater Bombay.  On February	 26,1952,  two of such contracts were outstanding, one of  whichwas in respect of groundnuts and was a forward contract.In  March  1952, disputes arose between the  parties  as  towhether these contracts had been closed, each side making  aclaim  on  the	other on the basis of  its  own	 contention.Eventually,  on March 18, 1952, the appellant  referred	 thedisputes   to  arbitration  under  the	arbitration   clausecontained  in  the  contracts.	 On  October  7,  1952,	 thearbitrators  made  one composite award for  Rs.	 22,529-15-9against the respondent in respect of the said disputes.	  Itis not very clear whether this award covered other  disputesalso.This award was duly filed in the Bombay City Civil99782Court under the Arbitration Act, 1940, for a judgment  beingpassed on it.  Thereafter, on July 17, 1953, the  respondentmade  an  application  to the Bombay City  Civil  Court	 forsetting aside the award contending that forward contracts ingroundnuts were illegal as the making of such contracts	 wasprohibited  by the Oilseeds (Forward  Contract	Prohibition)Order, 1943, issued under the Essential Supplies  (TemporaryPowers)	 Act,  1946, and hence the arbitration	clause	con-tained	in  the forward contract in groundnuts	between	 theparties was null and void.  It was said that the award basedon  that  arbitration clause was therefore a  nullity.	 Theappellant's answer to this contention was that the EssentialSupplies  (Temporary  Powers) Act did not apply	 to  GreaterBombay	where forward contracts were governed by the  BombayForward	 Contracts Control Act, 1947, hereafter	 called	 theBombay Act, and as the contract in groundnuts had been	madein  terms  of that Act, it was legal,  and,  therefore,	 theaward in terms of the arbitration clause contained in it wasa valid and enforceable award.	The learned Principal  Judgeof  the	 Bombay City Civil Court accepted  the	respondent'scontention  and	 set  aside the award.	 An  appeal  by	 theappellant  to the High Court at Bombay against the  judgmentof the City Civil Court failed.	 The appellant has now	cometo this Court in further appeal.The  only question in this appeal is whether  the  EssentialSupplies  (Temporary  Powers) Act, which was passed  by	 theCentral Legislature in 1946, applied to Bombay?	 If it	did,then  the  Oilseeds (Forward  Contract	Prohibition)  Order,1943, hereafter called, the Oilseeds Order, issued under  itwould  make the contract in groundnuts illegal and no  awardcould be made under the arbitration clause contained in	 it.This is not in dispute.Now, the Oilseeds Order was first passed in 1943 under r. 83of  the Defence of India Rules.	 The Defence of India  Rulesceased	to  be	in  force on September	30,  1946.   In	 themeantime however, as the situation had not quite returned tonormal	in spite of the termination of the war, the  BritishParliament passed783an  Act	 on  March  26,	 1946,	called	the  India  (CentralGovernment and Legislature) Act, 1946 (9 & 10 Geo.  VI,	 Ch.39),  hereafter called the British Act.	 Section 2  of	thisAct  provided  that the Central Legislature of	India  wouldhave  power  to make laws with respect	to  various  matterstherein mentioned notwithstanding anything in the Governmentof  India Act, 1935, and that that power could be  exercisedduring	the  period mentioned in s. 4 and further  that	 thelaws  so  made	to IV-he extent they  could  not  have	beenotherwise made, would cease to have effect at the expirationof  that  period.   The Governor General  under	 the  powersreserved in s. 4 and subsequently, the Constituent  Assemblyof India, under the powers conferred on it under the  IndianIndependence Act, 1947, extended the period mentioned in  s.4 of the British Act from time to time and eventually up  toMarch  31, 1951.  It would be unprofitable for our  purposesto  refer  to the various statutory  provisions	 and  ordersunder  which  this  was done for, the extension	 is  not  indispute.Under the powers conferred by the British Act, the Governor-General	  promulgated  the  Essential  Supplies	  (TemporaryPowers) Ordinance, 1946, which came into force on October 1,1946.	On November 19, 1946, the Central Legislature  underthe  same  powers, passe the Essential	Supplies  (TemporaryPowers)	 Act,  1946,  hereafter	 called	 the  Central	Act,repealing the Ordinance and substantially incorporating	 itsterms.	 The Central Act originally provided that  it  wouldcease  to  have	 effect	 on the	 expiration  of	 the  periodmentioned  is s. 4 of the British Act.	As the life  of	 theBritish Act was extended from time to time, suitable  amend-ments were made in the Central Act extending its life  also.Our Constitution came into force on January 26, 1950 and  byvirtue	of Art. 372 the Central Act was continued as one  ofthe  existing  laws.   On  August  16,	1950,  under  powersconferred by Art. 369 of the Constitution, Parliament passedthe  Essential	Supplies (Temporary Powers)  Amendment	Act,1950,  Act LII of 1950, amending the Central Act in  variousrespects and extending its life up to December 31, 1952.  Byanother amendment made by Act LXV of 1952, the784life of the Central Act was extended till January 26, 1955.Section 3(1) of the Central Act is in these terms:"The  Central Government, so far as it appears to it  to  benecessary   or	expedient  for	maintaining  or	  increasingsupplies  of any essential commodity, or for securing  theirequitable distribution and availability at fair prices,	 mayby notified order provide for regulating or prohibiting	 theproduction,  supply and distribution thereof, and trade	 andcommerce therein."Section	 2 of the Act provides that foodstuffs would  be  anessential commodity within the meaning of the Act and  wouldinclude	 edible oilseeds.  We have earlier stated  that	 theOilseeds  Order was originally passed under the	 Defence  ofIndia  Rules,  which  expired  on  September  30,1946.	 TheOrdinance  of 1946 continued in force, orders  issued  underthe Defence of India Rules in so far as they were consistentwith it and provided that such orders would be deemed to  beorders	made  under it.	 Section 17(2) of  the	Central	 Actprovided that an order deemed to be made under the Ordinanceand  in	 force	immediately before  its	 commencement  wouldcontinue  in force and be deemed to be an order	 made  underit.   As  a  result of the Ordinance  and  the	Central	 Actreplacing  it  and the extension of the life of	 the  latterfrom  time to time, the Oilseeds Order so far as it  relatedto edible oilseeds including groundnuts, continued in  forceafter the expiry of the Defence of India Rules till  January26,  1955.   That  Order, as so	 continued,  prohibited	 themaking	of  forward  contracts, that is	 to  say,  contractsproviding  for	delivery  at a future date,  in	 respect  ofcertain specified oilseeds including groundnuts.  It is	 therespondent's  contention that it is because of	this  order,read  with the Central Act, that the contract in  groundnutsbetween the parties was illegal and therefore the award madeunder the arbitration clause contained in it was void.Now the British Act under which the Central Act was  passed,provided in sub-sec. (4) of s. 2 that,"Sub-section  (2) of section 107 of the Government of  IndiaAct, 1935, and sub-section (2) of section 126785of  that  Act shall apply in relation to a  law	 enacted  byvirtue	of this section with respect to any matter  being  amatter	with respect to which a Province has power  to	makelaws as if that matter were a matter specified in Part 11 ofthe Concurrent Legislative List."Section	 107(2) of the Government of India Act,	 1935,	laiddown that,"Where	a Provincial law with respect to one of the  mattersenumerated  in the Concurrent Legislative List contains	 anyprovision repugnantto the provisions of an earlier  Federallawthen	 if the Provincial law, having been  reserved  forthe consideration of the Governor-Generalhas	receivedthe assent of the Governor-Generalthe Provincial law  shallin  that  Province  prevail  It	 would	follow	from   theseprovisions  that if a Provincial Act which had received	 theassent of the Governor-General, contained anything repugnantto  a Central Act passed under the powers conferred  by	 theBritish Act, then in the Province concerned, the  ProvincialAct would apply and not the Central Act.Now, the Bombay Act which had been passed by the  ProvincialLegislature of Bombay in 1947, came into operation in  1948.That  Legislature had power to pass the Act and the Act	 hadreceived  the assent of the Governor-General.  At that	timethe Central Act deriving its force from the British Act, wasin, operation.	If, therefore, the Bombay Act was  repugnantto  the Central Act, in Bombay, the Bombay Act	would  applyand  not  the  Central Act.  This is not  in  dispute.	 Theappellant  contends that the Bombay Act is so repugnant	 andtherefore the Central Act cannot render the forward contractin groundnuts made in, Greater Bombay, illegal and void.The question, therefore, is whether the Bombay Act, containsany provision repugnant to the Central Act.  The preamble ofthe Bombay Act states that it was enacted as it was  thoughtexpedient to regulate and control forward contracts and	 forcertain	 other	matters.  Section 1 of this  Act  came	intoforce at once and gave power to the Government to bring intoforce  by notification the remaining sections of the Act  inthe786whole  of  the Province of Bombay or parts thereof  on	suchdate  and  in respect of such goods as might  be  specified.The  Government	 of Bombay issued notifications	 under	thissection	 on  December  19,  1950,  applying  the   remainingprovisions  of the Act to the area called Greater Bombay  inrespect of all varieties of oilseeds as from the said  date.Section 8 of the Bombay Act provides as follows:S.  8.-(1) Every forward contract for the sale	or  purchaseof, or relating to, any goods specified in the	notificationunder  sub-section (3) of section I which is  entered  into,made  or  to  be performed in any  notified  area  shall  beillegal if it is not entered into, made or to be performed--(a)In accordance with such bye-laws, made under section	 6-or  7 relating to the entering into, making or	 performanceof such contracts, as may be specified in the bye-laws, or(b) (i) between members of a recognised association,(ii) through a member of a recognised association, or(iii)  with a member of a recognised  association,  providedthat   such  member  has  previously  secured  the   writtenauthority or consent, which shall be in writing if the	bye-laws  so provide, of the person entering into or making	 thecontract, and no claim of any description in respect of suchcontract shall be entertained in any civil court.(2) Any person entering into or making such illegal contractshall, on conviction, be punishable with imprisonment for  aterm  which  may extend to six months or with fine  or	withboth."Recognised association" is defined in the Bombay Act as  anassociation  recognised by the Provincial Government and  onDecember 19, 1950, the Bombay Oilseeds Exchange Limited	 wasrecognised  as	such  an association by	 the  Government  ofBombay.	 The appellant is a member of this association.	 Thecontracts  between  the	 parties  were	all  expressly	madesubject	 to the rules and regulations of  this	Association.The  case  before  us has proceeded on the  basis  that	 theimpugned contract in groundnut had been made in compliance787with the requirements of s. 8 and there is no finding to thecontrary  by the Courts below.	We have hence to proceed  onthe same basis.The appellant contends that s. 8 of the Bombay Act and s.  3of the Central Act are repugnant to each other.	 Now s. 8 ofthe  Bombay  Act, it will, be noticed, does not	 purport  tomake  any  contract  legal.  Its only effect  is  to  renderforward	 contracts in all varieties of oilseeds	 illegal  ifnot made in compliance with its terms.	The learned Advocatefor the appellant says that the effect of s. 8 was to rendera  forward  contract in all oilseeds made in  terms  of	 it,legal  and, therefore, a repugnancy arose between its  termsand the terms of the Oilseeds Order issued under the CentralAct which made forward contracts in edible oilseeds illegal.The learned Advocate referred to various other provisions ofthe  Bombay Act and the bye-laws of the Association made  interms of the Act to show that the Bombay Act was intended tocover the entire field of forward contracts with respect  toall varieties of oilseeds and was therefore intended to oustthe  operation	of the Central Act in  Greater	Bombay	withregard	to the forward contracts covered by the former.	  Itdoes not seem to us that a reference to the other provisionsin  the	 Bombay	 Act  or to the	 bye-laws,  is	relevant  indeciding the question.	If the effect of s. 8 of the  BombayAct was not to render forward contracts made in terms of  itlegal,	then no question of repugnancy with the Central	 Actcan  arise whatever may be the scope of the Bombay  Act	 andthe provisions in the bye-laws.Therefore, it seems to us that the question is whether s.  8of  the Bombay Act by its terms makes any  forward  contractlegal.	Section 3 of the Central Act, as already seen, givespower  to  the	Central Government  to	prohibit  trade	 andcommerce  in  oilseeds.	 That Act,  therefore,	enable&	 theCentral	 Government to make forward contracts  in  essentialcommodities  as	 defined in it, illegal.  That is  what	 theCentral	 Government did by the Oilseeds Order in so  far  asedible oilseeds are concerned.We find nothing in s. 8 from which it can be said788that  it rendered any contract legal.  Its only	 intent	 andeffect is to declare certain forward contracts illegal.	  Wethink  that the matter was very correctly put by Chagla,  C.J., who delivered the judgment of the High Court.  He  said,"All  that Sec. 8 does is to declare that forward  contractswill  be illegal unless they comply with the procedure	laiddown  in  Sec. 8. But it is one thing to declare  a  certaincontract  illegal.  It is entirely another thing to  declarean  illegal  contract legal.  Sec. 8 does not even  make  anattempt	 to declare that forward contracts declared  illegalby  the	 Central legislation shall be legal if	they  complywith the technicalities laid down in Sec. 8. The  assumptionunderlying Sec. 8, it seems to us, is that forward contractswhich  the Legislature is dealing with are legal  contracts,but  even if they are legal they are declared to be  illegalunless	they  are performed or made or entered into  in	 themanner	laid  down in Sec. 8".	With these  observations  wefully agree.In  regard  to the contention that s. 8 of  the	 Bombay	 Actnecessarily implies that contracts made in terms of it wouldbe  legal,  it seems to us that there is no  such  necessityindicated  in  the  Act.  The Act clearly  intends  only  tocreate an illegality, that is to say, as Chagla, C. J. said,it  takes  a  legal  contract  and  imposes  on	 it  certainconditions and makes it illegal if those conditions are	 notfulfilled.   If a contract is already illegal, there  is  noscope for applying the Bombay Act.  Furthermore, the  BombayAct deals with all kinds of goods.  Sub-section (4) of s.  2of  this Act defines goods as any kind of  movable  propertyincluding  securities but not including money or  actionableclaims.	  Now  the  Central Act only  applies  to  essentialcommodities  as	 defined in it.	 Therefore, there  would  bemany contracts to which the Central Act would not apply	 andsuch contracts may be rendered illegal by the Bombay Act  ifthey come within its scope and are made in disregard of	 theconditions laid down in s. 8.We,  therefore,	 come  to the conclusion that  there  is  norepugnancy  between the Bombay Act and the Central Act.	  Itfollows that there is no scope for789applying  the provisions of s. 107(2) of the  Government  ofIndia  Act, 1935.  That would be the position in 1948,	whenthe  Bombay  Act  came into force and the  Central  Act	 wasalready in existence.  Both the Acts would then be  applyingto Greater Bombay as there is no inconsistency between them.Article	 372 of the Constitution continued both	 these	Actsafter the Constitution came into force and there is  nothingin  the	 Constitution  which provides that any	one  of	 twoexisting  laws, both of which had applied up to	 the  cominginto force of the Constitution, would apply to the exclusionof  the	 other.	 It follows that in 1951 or 1952,  when	 thecontract  in  groundnuts-which	it is not  disputed,  was  aforward	 contract  within the meaning of both  the  Acts-wasmade, both the Acts applied to it.  The Constitution had notaffected  such	application.  That being the  position,	 thecontract in groundnuts must be held to be illegal under	 theCentral Act which clearly prohibited the making of it.	 TheBombay Act could not make it legal for, as we have said,  itwas  not  intended  to make any contract  legal.   It  wouldfollow	that  the  arbitration	clause	contained  in	thatcontract was of no effect.  It has therefore to be held thatthe  award made under that arbitration clause is  a  nullityand  has  been rightly set aside.  The award, it  will	havebeen  noticed,	was  however in respect	 of  disputes  underseveral	 contracts, one of which we have found to  be  void.But as the award was one and is not severable in respect  ofthe different disputes covered by it, some of which may havebeen  legally  and  validly referred, the  whole  award	 wasrightly set aside.The appeal, therefore, fails and is dismissed with costs.				  Appeal dismissed.100619of  the Act.  These rules are called the Bihar	Preservationand  Improvement of Animals Rules, 1960.  The provisions  ofr.  3  have  also been impugned by the.	 petitioners  by  anamendment  petition filed by them.  Rule 3 so far as  it  ismaterial. for our purpose is in	 these terms:"3(1).	 For  the  purpose  of section 3  of  the  Act,	 theVeterinary Officer and the Chairman or Chief Officer, as thecase may be, shall be the prescribed authority:Provided that where there is no Chairman or Chief Officer inrespect	 of  any area, the Veterinary Officer shall  be	 thesole prescribed authority.(2) Where the authority prescribed under subrule (1) or sub-rule (5) refuses to issue a certificate under the proviso tosection	 3, it shall record the reasons for the refusal	 andno  such refusal shall be made unless the  person  'applyingfor the certificate has been given a reasonable	 opportunityof being heard.(3).........................................................(4)A  bull,  bullock or she-buffalo in respect	of  which  acertificate  has  been issued under section 3 shall  not  beslaughtered  at any place other than the place indicated  inthe  certificate and it shall be slaughtered within 20	daysof the date of the receipt of the certificate by the  personin whose favour it is issued.(5) In case of difference of opinion between the  VeterinaryOfficer and the Chairman or Chief Officer, the matter  shallbe  referred to the Sub-divisional Animal Husbandry  Officeror  the District Animal Husbandry Officer, as the  case	 maybe, and the certificate shall be issued or refused accordingto  the	 decision  of the  Sub-divisional  Animal  HusbandryOfficer	 or  the District Animal Husbandry Officer,  as	 thecase may be.(6) (a) Any person aggrieved by an order refusing to grant acertificate  under the proviso to section 3 may,  within  15days  of  the communication of the order to him,  prefer  anappeal-(i)  where  the	 order is passed  by"  the  District  AnimalHusbandry Officer under sub-rule (5) to the Deputy  Directorof Animal Husbandry;790