PETITIONER:THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH	Vs.RESPONDENT:VEERESHWAR RAO AGNIHOTRYDATE OF JUDGMENT:05/04/1957BENCH:MENON, P. GOVINDABENCH:MENON, P. GOVINDADAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)IMAM, SYED JAFFERDAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  592		  1957 SCR  868ACT:  Autrefois  acquit--Trial for offences under s. 409 of	 theIndian	Penal  Code  and  s.  5(2)  of	the  Prevention	  ofCorruption Act--Acquittal of charge, under s.  5(2)--Whetherconviction  under s. 409 barred--Code of Criminal  Procedures.  403--Constitution of India Art.  20(2)--General  ClausesAct s. 26.HEADNOTE:  The  accused	was tried by a Special	Judge  for  offencesunder  s.  409 Of the Indian Penal Code and S. 5(2)  of	 thePrevention of Corruption Act.  He was convicted under S. 409but the judge held that the accused could not be tried unders.  5(2)  as  there had been no investigation  by  a  policeofficer	 not  below the rank of a Deputy  Superintendent  ofPolice.	  Upon appeal by the accused against the  convictionunder  s.  409,	 the High Court	 applying  the	doctrine  ofautrefois acquit held that the order of the judge in respectof  the charge under s. 5(2) was tantamount to an  acquittalfor  that offence and on the same facts no conviction  couldbe had under S. 409 :   Held, that the offences under S. 409 of the Indian  PenalCode  and under S. 5(2) of the Prevention of Corruption	 Actwere  distinct and separate and there could be no  objectionto  a trial and conviction under s. 469 even if the  accusedhad been acquitted under S. 5(2).   Om Prakash Gupta v. The State Of U.P., [1957] S.C.R. 423,applied.   Section  403(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure has  noapplication  where  there  is only  one	 trial	for  severaloffences,  of some of which the accused person is  acquittedthough	convicted  of one.  Article 20 of  the	Constitutionalso does not apply where the accused had not already  been,tried:	and  acquitted for the same offence  in	 an  earliertrial,869Where there are two alternate charges in the same trial, thefact  that the accused is acquitted of one of them will	 notprevent the conviction on the other.JUDGMENT:    CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeals	Nos.130 and 131 of 1954.Appeals	 by special leave from the judgment and order  datedSeptember  11, 1953, of the former Madhya Bharat High  Courtin Appeals Nos. 42 and 43 of 1953.Shiv Dayal and R. H. Dhebar, for the appellant.B. C. Misra, amicus curiae, for the respondent.1957.  April 5. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by  GOVINDA MENON J.-The State of Madhya Bharat, G which afterNovember 1, 1956, had become merged in the present State  ofMadhya	Pradesh, had obtained special leave from this  courton April 11, 1954, to appeal against the judgment and  orderof  acquittal passed in favour of the respondent herein,  bythe  High Court of Judicature of Madhya Bharat on  September11,  1953, in two consolidated Criminal Appeals Nos. 42	 and43  of 1953, by the identical appellant before	that  court.The  question for decision in these two appeals is  how	 farthe High Court was justified in ordering the acquittal.  The respondent herein was a Tax-Collector in the MunicipalCommittee  of  Lashkar, Gwalior, and was prosecuted  in	 thecourt  of  the	City  Magistrate  and  Additional   DistrictMagistrate,  Lashkar,  firstly by means of a  challan  datedOctober 23, 1951, for offences under ss. 468, 477-A and	 409of  the Indian Penal Code and s. 5 (2) of the Prevention  ofCorruption Act II of 1947, in that he misappropriated a	 sumof more than Rs. 7,000, entrusted to him in the capacity  ofTax Collector, and during the course of the said transactioncommitted  various  offences.	On July 4,  1952,  a  secondcomplaint was filed against him in the same court under	 theidentical sections for having misappropriated in 1950 a	 sumof  Rs.	 3,500 in all under  similar  circumstances.   Whilethese  two  complaints were pending in the trial  court,  onJuly 28, 1952, the Criminal112870Law  Amendment Act (Act No. 46 of 1952) came into force	 andby s. 6 of that statute, the State Government was authorisedto appoint a Special Judge for the trial of an offence undersub-s. (2) of s. 5 of the Prevention of Corruption Act 11 of1947.	Section	 7  of	the  same  statute  laid  down	thatnotwithstanding	  any.	thing  contained  in  the   CriminalProcedure  Code,  or  any other law for the  time  being  inforce,	an  offence  under s. 5 (2)  of	 the  Prevention  ofCorruption  Act	 could	be tried only by  a  Special  Judge,appointed  under  s. 6 of the Criminal	Law  Amendment	Act.Sub-cl.	 (b)  of  s. 7 laid down that when  trying  a  case,triable	 exclusively by a Special Judge under this  statute,he may also try any other offence with which the accused mayunder the Code of Criminal Procedure, be charged at the sametrial.	 The last section of the Criminal Law Amendment	 Actaforesaid provided that all cases triable by a Special Judgeunder  s. 7, which immediately :before the  commencement  ofthe  Act were pending before any Magistrate, shall  on	suchcommencement  be  forwarded for trial to the  Special  Judgehaving jurisdiction over such cases.  In accordance with theabove-mentioned provisions of the statute, the cases pendingbefore	 the   City  Magistrate	 and   Additional   DistrictMagistrate,  Lashkar,  were transferred to a  Special  Judgeconstituted  for the purpose before whom they were  numberedas  Case  No.  3  of 1953 and No.  6  of  1953.	  After	 theprosecution  evidence  was  over, on  March  10,  1953,	 theSpecial	  Judge	 framed	 charges  under	 all  the   sectionscomplained  against.   By separate judgments dated  June  5,1953,  the Special Judge found the respondent guilty  of  anoffence under s. 409 of the Indian Penal Code and  sentencedhim to rigorous imprisonment for three years.  He,  however,passed an order of acquittal under ss. 468 and 477-A, of theIndian Penal Code.  As regards the charge under s. 5 (2)  ofAct  II of 1947, the learned Special Judge was of  the	viewthat  since  the  provisions of sub.s. (4) of s.  5  of	 thePrevention  of Corruption Act to the effect that  no  policeofficer	 below the rank of Deputy Superintendent  of  Policeshall investigate any offence punishable under sub-s. (2)871of s. 5 of the Prevention of Corruption Act without an orderof  a 1st Class Magistrate, had not been complied with,	 thefoundation   for  preferring  a	 complaint  had	  not	beenestablished  and, therefore, there was an  illegality  whichaffected the jurisdiction of the court to try the case,	 theresult	being that the accused could not be tried  for	thatoffence.  Such being the case, no formal order of  acquittalwas passed by the trial court.  Aggrieved  by the convictions under s. 409 of	 the  IndianPenal Code, the respondent preferred two appeals to the HighCourt  of  Madhya  Bharat which were  consolidated  by	thatcourt,	and  by a common judgment that	court  applying	 thedoctrine of autrefois acquit held that when once on the samefacts the trial Judge found that the respondent could not befound guilty of an offence under s. 5 (2) of the  Preventionof  Corruption	Act, it was tantamount to an  acquittal	 forthat offence in which case no conviction could be had  unders.  409	 of  the Indian Penal  Code.   The  respondent	was,therefore,  acquitted.	As mentioned already, the State	 hasbeen  granted special leave to appeal against the orders  ofacquittal.  The  correctness of the conclusion of the High  Court	 hasbeen  challenged  in more ways than one by  the	 appellant'scounsel.  Firstly, it is argued that the offence under s.  5(2)  of the Prevention of Corruption Act and that  under  s.409  of	 the Indian Penal Code, are not the same,  and	suchbeing the case, granting that the order of the Special Judgeamounted to an acquittal under s. 5 (2) of the Prevention ofCorruption  Act, still that would not bar the conviction  ofthe  respondent	 under	s. 409 of  the	Indian	Penal  Code.Secondly,  it  is pointed out that when at  the	 same  trialthere  are two alternative charges like those with which  weare now concerned, acquittal of the accused under one chargeis no impediment to his conviction on the other; and  lastlyit  is contended that any defect in the investigation  wouldnot amount to an illegality which would invalidate the trialand conviction if the proceedings culminate that way.872This  court  has recently held in Om Prakash  Gupta  v.	 TheState  of U. P.(1), that the offence of criminal  misconductpunishable  under s. 5 (2) of the Prevention  of  CorruptionAct  II	 of  1947 is not identical in  essence,	 import	 andcontent	 with  an offence under s. 409 of the  Indian  PenalCode.	The offence of criminal misconduct is a new  offencecreated	 by  that  enactment  and  it  does  not  repeal  byimplication or abrogate s. 409 of the Indian Penal Code.  Inthe common judgment in those appeals the conclusion has beenexpressed in the following words:- "Our  conclusion,  therefore, is that the  offence  createdunder  s.  5(1)(c) of the Prevention of	 Corruption  Act  isdistinct and separate from the one under S. 405 I.P.C.	and,therefore,  there can be no question of s.5(1)(c)  repealings. 405 I.P.C."  In view of the above pronouncement, the view taken by	 thelearned	 Judge of the High Court that the two  offences	 areone and the same, is wrong, and if that is so, there can  beno  objection to a trial and conviction under a. 409 of	 theIndian Penal Code, even if the respondent has been acquittedof an offence under s. 5(2) of the Prevention of  CorruptionAct  II of 1947.  Section 403(1) of the	 Criminal  ProcedureCode only prohibits a subsequent trial for the same offence,or  on	the  same facts for any other offence  for  which  adifferent charge from the one made against an accused personmight have been made under s. 236 of the Criminal  ProcedureCode, or for which he might have been convicted under s. 237when the earlier conviction or acquittal for such an offenceremains	 in  force.   It is obvious that s.  403(1)  has  noapplication  to the facts of the present case,	where  therewas  only one trial for several offences, of some  of  whichthe  accused person was acquitted while being  convicted  ofone.   On this ground alone the order of the High  Court  isliable to be set aside.	 The High Court also relied on	Art.20  of the Constitution for the order of acquittal but	thatArticle	  cannot  apply	 because  the  respondent  was	 notprosecuted after he had already been tried and acquitted forthe same offence in an earlier trial and, therefore, the (1) [1957] S.C.R.423.873well-known maxim " Nemo debet bis vexari, si constat  curicequod  sit  pro una et eadem causa" (No man  shall  be  twicepunished, if it appears to the court that it is for one	 andthe same cause) " embodied in Art. 20 cannot apply.The  next argument on behalf of the appellant is that  wherethere are two alternate charges in the same trial, the	factthat  the  accused  is acquitted of one of  them,  will	 notprevent	 the conviction on the other, is also  well-founded.Section	 26 of the General Clauses Act can be called in	 aidin  support  of this proposition.  There is no	question  ofdouble jeopardy.  Section 26 runs as follows: "Provisions  as  to offences punishable under two  or	moreenactments: Where an act or omission constitutes an  offenceunder  two  or more enactments then the	 offender  shall  beliable to be prosecuted and punished under either or any  ofthose  enactments,  but shall not be liable to	be  punishedtwice for the same."  We are, therefore, of the opinion that the learned Judge'sview on this aspect of the case is also unsound.  In  view of what has been stated above, it is	 unnecessaryto deal with the last contention of the learned counsel	 forthe appellant except merely to state that the Special  Judgehad jurisdiction to try the accused person under s. 7 of thePrevention of Corruption Act, 1947.The  result  is that the appeals succeed, the order  of	 theHigh Court acquitting the respondent of an offence under  s.409  of the Indian Penal Code is set aside and	the  appealsare  remanded  to the High Court of Madhya Pradesh  for	 re-hearing on the merits.874