PETITIONER:MESSRS.	 R. C. MITTER & SONS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,WEST BENGAL, CALCUTTADATE OF JUDGMENT:15/04/1959BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.KAPUR, J.L.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR  868		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 641 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1961 SC 680	 (5) R	    1961 SC1356	 (4) RF	    1965 SC1703	 (5) F	    1985 SC1572	 (7) F	    1986 SC 123	 (3)ACT:Income-tax-Registration	  of  firm-Procedure-"	 Constitutedunder  an  instrument of Partnership  ",  Meaning  of-lndianIncome-tax Act, 1922 (XI Of 1922), S. 26A, Rules 2 to 6B.HEADNOTE:The  question  for determination in these  two	appeals	 waswhether	 the appellant firms were entitled  to	registrationunder  S.  26A of the Indian Income-tax Act and	 the  commonpoint of law involved was the interpretation of the words  "constituted  under an instrument of partnership "  occurringin  that  section.  In Appeal No. 85 the assessee  firm	 wassaid  to  have	been constituted by a  verbal  agreement  inApril,	1948, and the- deed of partnership was drawn  up  inSeptember, 1949.  The application for registration under  s.26A  of the Act for the assessment year 1949-1950  was	madethereafter to the Income-tax Officer.  In Appeal NO. 389 theassessee firm was verbally constituted in81642June, 1944, and a memorandum of partnership was executed  inJune  1948.  The application for registration under  S.	 26Afor  the  assessment years 1945-46 and 1946-47 was  made  onAugust 24, 1949.The  applications  were rejected by the	 Income-tax  Officerand  the  appeals  preferred  by  the  assessees  were	alsodismissed  by the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal.   The	HighCourt took the view that S. 26A of the Indian Income-tax Actcontemplated a firm created or brought into existence by  aninstrument of partnership and answered the questions againstthe assessees.	It was contended on their behalf that solongas  the	 assessment  was not made,  they  were	entitled  toregistration   irrespective  of	 the  year  in	 which	 theinstrument  of	partnership came into existence.   This	 wascontroverted  on  behalf of the Revenue and their  case	 wasthat  a	 firm seeking registration under S. 26A of  the	 Actshould be created by an instrument of partnership, or at anyrate,  such  instrument should be in  existence	 during	 therelevant  accounting  year, i. e. the year previous  to	 theyear  of assessment in respect of which the application	 forregistration was made.Held,  that the words " Constituted under an  instrument  ofpartnership occurring in S. 26A of the Indian Income-tax Actincluded not only firms that were created by instruments  ofpartnership  but  also those that were subsequent  to  theircreation,  clothed in legal form by reducing the  terms	 andconditions of the partnership in writing.Dwarkadas Khetan & Co. v. Commissioner of Income-tax, BombayCity, Bombay, [1956] 29 I.T.R. 903, approved.Kalsi  Mechanical Woyks, Nandpur v. Commissioner of  Income-tax, Simla, [1953] 24 I.T.R. 353, Padam Parshad Rattan Chandv. Commissioner of Income-tax, Delhi, [1954] 25 I.T.R.	335,Bery  Engineering Co., Delhi v. Commissioner of	 Income-tax,Delhi, [1955] 28 I.T.R. 227, Income-tax Commissioner,  Delhiv. Messrs.  Birdhi Chand Girdhari Lal, [1955] 28 I.T.R.	 28oand Khimji Walji & Co. v. Commissioner of Income-tax,  Biharand Orissa, [1954] 25 I.T.R. 462, dissented from.Section	 26A, read with SS. 26, 28 and Rules 2 to  6B,	laiddown  the  following essential conditions that a  firm	mustfulfil	before it could claim registration under S.  26A  ofthe Act(1)  that  it  must be constituted under  an  Instrument  ofPartnership,   specifying  the	individual  shares  of	 thepartners;(2)  that an application on behalf of and signed by, all thepartners,  containing all the particulars as set out in	 theRules, must be made;(3)  that the application must be made before the assessmentof  the income of the firm was made under S. 23 Of  the	 Actfor that particular year;(4)  that  the	profits (or loss, if any)  of  the  businessrelating643to  the previous year, i. e., the relevant accounting  year,must  be  divided  or  credited, as  the  case	may  be,  inaccordance with the terms of the Instrument ; and lastly,(5)  that  the	partnership must be genuine  and  in  actualexistence in conformity with the terms and conditions of theInstrument.Where,	therefore, as in the instant cases, the	 partnershipdid  not  admittedly function in terms of an  instrument  ofpartnership which was operative during the accounting  year,it  could not be registered during the following  assessmentyear.Commissioner  of  Income-tax,  Bombay  North  v.   ShantilalVrajlal & Chandulal Dayalal & CO. [1957] 3I I.T.R. 903, dis-approved.Per M. HIDAYATULLAH, J.-While it was clearly not possible toread " constituted by " for the words " constituted under  "occurring in S. 26A of the Act, it was doubtful whether	 theinstrument of partnership sought to be registered must be inexistence  in the accounting year in order to entitle it  toregistration.Dwarkadas Khetan & Co. v. Commissioner of Income-tax, BombayCity, Bombay, [1956] 29 I.T.R. 903, referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION:	     Civil Appeals Nos. 85 &389 of 1957.Appeal from the judgment and order dated August 26, 1955, ofthe Calcutta High Court in Income-tax References Nos. 44  of1954 and 17 of 1953.S.   Mitra and P. K. Mukherjee, for the appellant (in C.   A.No. 85/57.)N.   C. Chatterjee and P. K. Ghosh, for the appellant (in C.A. No. 389/57).R.   Ganapathy	Iyer,  R. H. Dhebar and D.  Gupta,  for	 therespondent.1959.  April 15.  The judgment of Sinha and Kapur, JJ.,	 wasdelivered  by  Sinha,  J.  Hidayatullah,  J.,  delivered   aseparate judgment.SINHA,	J.-The common question of law arising in  these	 twoappeals on certificates of fitness granted by the High Courtof  Calcutta under s. 66A(2) of the Indian  Income-tax	Act,1922,  is  the effect and scope of the words  "	 constitutedunder an instrument of partnership" in s. 26A of the Income-tax  Act,  which, in the course of this	 judgment,  will  bereferred to as the Act.644The  facts  of the two cases, leading  upto  these  appeals,though	not  dissimilar,  are  not  identical.	 They	are,therefore, set out separately.In Civil Appeal No. 85 of 1957, Messrs.	 R. C. Mitter	 andSons,  54, Rani Kanto Bose Street, Calcutta, claim to  be  afirm said to have been constituted in April 1948, with	fourpersons	 whose names and shares in the nett profits  of	 thepartnership business, are stated to be as under(a) Ramesh Chandra Mitter-40 per cent. of the nett     profits.(b) Sudhir Chandra Mitter-30 per cent. of the nett     profits.(c) Sukumar Mitter-20 per cent. of the nett profits.(d)Sushil Chandra Mitter-10 per cent. of the nett profits.The  firm  intimated  its  bank, the  Bengal  Central  Bank,Limited,  (as it then was), of the constitution of the	firmas  set out above, by its letter dated April 15, 1948.	 Theletter	also stated that a partnership deed Was going to  bedrawn  up and executed by the partners aforesaid,  and	thatthe  deed so drawn up, will be forwarded to the bank in	 duecourse.	 Though the firm is said to have come into existencein  April 1948, the deed of partnership which is set out  asannexure " A " at P. 5 of the paper book, was drawn up	onlyon September 27, 1949.	This deed of partnership appears  tohave  been  registered under the provisions  of	 the  IndianPartnership  Act,  on  October	1,2,  1949.   It  was	alsoforwarded  to the Bengal Central Bank, Ltd., Head Office  atCalcutta,  as it appears from the seal of the bank  and	 thesignature  dated  December  7,	1949.	An  application	  toregister  the  firm under s. 26A, for  the  assessment	year1949-50,  was made to the Income-tax Authorities.  The	dateof  the	 said application does not appear  from	 the  recordbefore	us.  The application was rejected by the  Income-taxAuthorities.  The firm preferred an appeal to the Income-taxAppellate Tribunal, which was also dismissed by the Tribunalby  its	 order dated September 7, 1953.	 The ground  of	 theorder of the Tribunal was that as the firm admittedly645was  formed by a verbal agreement in April 1948, and not  byor under an instrument in writing dated September 27,  1949,and  as the assessment was for the year 1949-50,  for  whichregistration of the firm was sought, the registration  couldnot  be ordered.  The Tribunal also referred to	 the  letteraforesaid to the Bengal Central Bank, and observed that	 theletter	merely contained information as to the formation  ofthe partnership and of the personnel thereof, but it did notcontain the terms on which the partnership had been  formed.It  also showed that a partnership had been created but	 notby  deed.  Hence, the Tribunal further observed, the  lettermight  be  useful for consideration on the question  of	 thegenuineness  of	 the  firm,  but it  could  not	 fulfil	 therequirements  of  s. 26A, namely, that the  firm  should  beconstituted under an instrument of partnership.	  Therefore,the  Tribunal held that assuming the firm to be genuine,  itwas  not entitled to be registered under s. 26A of the	Act.Thereupon, the assessee moved the Tribunal under s. 66(1) ofthe  Act.  That application was granted by the	order  datedFebruary 2, 1954, and the case stated to the High Court	 forits decision on the following question :-"  Whether the assessee firm which is alleged to  have	comeinto  existence	 by a verbal agreement in  April,  1948,  isentitled to be registered under section 26A for the  purposeof   assessment	 for  1949-50,	where  the   Instrument	  ofPartnership was drawn up only in September, 1949, after	 theexpiry of the relevant previous year ".The High' Court Bench, presided over by Chakravarti, C.	 J.,by its judgment dated August 26, 1955, answered the questionin  the negative.  The learned Chief Justice considered	 thematter from all possible view-points, including grammatical,etymological and textual matters, and came to the conclusionthat  "	 constituted " meant created ". He  also  consideredthat the preposition under " is " obviously inappropriateafter having convinced himself that " constituted could	  beequated with "created".	 He also found	no   difficulty	  inobserving that " some of the646paragraphs  of	the Form appear to be  ill-adjusted  to	 theprovisions  of	the  Act  and  the  Rules  ".  In  the	end,therefore, he concluded with the remarks: " It appears to meto  be desirable that the language of the section,  as	alsothat of the Rules should receive legislative attention ".In  Civil  Appeal No. 389 of 1957, Messrs.  D.	C.  Auddy  &Brothers, Calcutta, claim to be a partnership consisting  ofDulal  Chand Auddy, Prem Chand Auddy, Gora Chand  Auddy	 andKalipada  Nandy.  The partnership business is said  to	havebegun  in  June, 1944.	An application was  made  on  August24,1949,  for  the  registration of  the  partnership.	 TheIncome-tax Officer and the Appellate Assistant	Commissionerwere  of the opinion that the partnership was not a  genuineone,  and could not be registered.  Another reason  for	 notordering registration was that the partnership deed,  havingbeen executed on June 2, 1948, could not be operative duringthe two years under consideration, namely, 1945-46 and 1946-47.   On appeal, the Income. tax Appellate  Tribunal  restedits decision on the finding that the alleged partnership hadnot  been  constituted under an	 instrument  of	 partnershipwithin the meaning of those words in s. 26A of the Act.	  Atthe  instance of the assessee, the Tribunal framed the	fol-lowing question for determination by the High Court:"  Whether  the assessee firm constituted  orally  in  June,1944,  can  validly be registered in  the  assessment  years1945-46	 and 1946-47 under Section 26A of the Indian  IncomeTax Act on the basis of a Memorandum of Partnership executedin June 1948."The  other  parts  of  the statement  of  the  case  by	 theTribunal, refer to the merits of the assessment, with  whichwe  are	 not  concerned in this appeal.	 Hence,	 it  is	 notnecessary  to  set  out those facts.  On this  part  of	 thestatement  of the case, the High Court gave the same  answeras  in the other appeal.  In this case also, the High  Courtgranted the necessary certificate under s. 66A(2), read withart.  135 of the Constitution.	As both the cases raise	 thesame  question	of law, they have been heard  together,	 andwill be governed by this judgment.647It  is	convenient  at this stage to set  out  the  relevantprovisions  of	the Act.  Section 26A is in these  terms  :"26A.   Procedure in registration of  firms.-(I)	 Applicationmay be made to the Income-tax Officer on behalf of any firm,constituted  under an instrument of  partnership  specifyingthe individual shares of the partners, for registration	 forthe purposes of this Act and of any other enactment for	 thetime being in force relating to income-tax or super tax.(2)  The application shall be made by such person or personsand  at	 such times and shall contain such  particulars	 andshall  be in such form, and be verified in such	 manner,  asmay be prescribed and it shall be dealt with 'by the Income-tax Officer in such manner as may be prescribed."The  section contemplates the framing of rules	laying	downthe  details of the Form in which the application has to  bemade  and  the	particulars which should be  stated  in	 theapplication,  and other cognate matters.  Section 59 of	 theAct, authorizes the Central Board of Revenue, subject to thecontrol	 of  the  Central  Government,	to  make  rules	 forcarrying  out the purposes of the Act, and sub-s. (5) of  s.59  provides  that rules made under the	 section,  shall  bepublished  in  the Official Gazette, and "  shall  thereuponhave effect as if enacted in this Act".	 Income-tax Rules  2to  6B lay down the details of the procedure for  making  anapplication for the registration of a firm, as	contemplatedunder  s. 26A, quoted above.  These rules have been  amendedextensively in 1952, but we are concerned in this case	withthe rules before those amendments.  Rule 2 requires such  anapplication to be signed by all the partners personally, andto be made before the income of the firm is assessed for theyear,  under  s. 23 of the Act.	 Rule 3	 requires  that	 theapplication  be	 made in the Form annexed to the  rule,	 andthat  the application shall be accompanied by  the  originalInstrument   of,  Partnership  under  which  the   firm	  isconstituted.........  The Form appearing in r.	3,  requiresthe assessment year to be specified.  Thus, the registrationis  for a particular year of assessment, and not for  futureyears also, and therefore, the application for	registrationhas648to  be made every year, which in fact means  an	 applicationfor  renewal of the registration.  Paragraph 3 of  the	Formrequires  a certificate to be signed by the  applicants	 forregistration,  to the effect that the profits (or  loss,  ifany) of the previous year were divided or credited as  shownin  Section  B	of  the Schedule.   The	 Form  contains	 theSchedule  in  7	 columns which require	the  names  of	the-partners,  their  addresses,  the  date	 of  admittance	  topartnership,  their shares in the profits or loss, etc.,  tobe  filled in.	Under the Schedule, there are Section A	 andSection B. Section A has to contain particulars of the	firmas constituted at the date of the application, and Section Bhas  to contain the particulars of the apportionment of	 theincome,	 profits or gains (or loss) of the business  in	 theprevious year between the partners who in that previous yearwere entitled to share therein.	 Rule 4 provides that if theIncome-tax Officer. is satisfied that there is or was a firmin  existence  constituted  as shown in	 the  instrument  ofpartnership,  and  that the application	 has  been  properlymade,  he  has	to enter a certificate at the  foot  of	 theInstrument of Partnership that the firm has been  registeredunder  s.  26A	of  the Act, and  that	the  certificate  ofregistration  shall have effect for the assessment  for	 theyear  specified	 therein.   Rule 5 is as  follows:" 5.  The  certificate of registration granted under  Rule  4shall have effect only for the assessment to be made for theyear  mentioned therein."And Rule 6 makes provision for	 thecertificate  of registration to be renewed for a  subsequentyear,  on  an  application  being made	in  that  behalf  inaccordance with the preceding Rules.It  is manifest that for a true and proper  construction  ofthe relevant provisions of the Act, relating to registrationof  firms,  ss.	 26, 26A and 28, and  the  Rules  summarizedabove, have to be read together.  So read, it is  reasonablyclear  that  the'  following essential	conditions  must  befulfilled  in  order  that a firm may be  held	entitled  toregistration:-(1)  That the firm should be constituted under an Instrumentof  Partnership,  specifying the individual  shares  of	 thepartners.649(2)  That  an application on behalf of, and signed  by,	 allthe  partners, containing all the particulars as set out  inthe Rules, has been made;(3)  That   the	 application  has  been	 made	before	 theassessment  of the income of the firm, made under s.  23  ofthe  Act (omitting the words not necessary for	our  presentpurpose), for that particular year;(4)  That  the	profits (or loss, if any)  of  the  businessrelating to the previous year, that is to say, the  relevantaccounting  year, should have been divided or  credited,  asthe  case  may	be,  in accordance with	 the  terms  of	 theInstrument; and lastly,(5)  That  the partnership must have been genuine, and	mustactually  have	existed	 in conformity with  the  terms	 andconditions of the Instrument.It is clear from what has been said above with reference  tothe relevant provisions of the Act, that the certificate  ofregistration has reference to a particular assessment  year,and  has  effect  for the assessment to	 be  made  for	thatparticular   year.   In	 other	words,	the  terms  of	 thepartnership  should appear in the Instrument of	 Partnershipin  respect of the relevant accounting year.  It is  equallyclear  that the firm to be registered, should have  been  inexistence during the accounting year, " constituted as shownin  the	 Instrument  of	 Partnership  ".  The  Rules,  thus,contemplate a document operative during the accounting year.We are not here concerned with the further question  whetherthe document should be in existence at the very inception ofthe accounting year, or before the year is out.The provisions of the Act, set out above, do not present anyserious difficulty except for the words it constituted underan  Instrument of Partnership " occurring in s. 26A and	 therelevant Rules.	 On the interpretation of these words, therehas  been a conflict of judicial opinion, as will  presentlyappear.	  On behalf of the assessee-appellants, it has	beencontended that so long as the assessment has not been  made,the assessees are entitled to have their firms registered inaccordance with the terms of the Instrument of82650Partnership,   irrespective  of	 the  year  in	 which	 theInstrument  may have come into existence.   Strong  reliancewas  placed  upon  the decision of  the	 Bombay	 High  Court(Chagla, C. J., and Tendolkar, J.) in the case of  DwarkadasKhetan	&  Co. v. Commissioner of Income-tax,  Bombay  City,Bombay(1),  wherein,  the following observations  have	beenmade:-"  Any	firm can make an application under section  26A	 forregistration  and  the	two conditions that it	has  got  tocomply	with  are  that	 it must  be  constituted  under  aninstrument  of partnership and the second condition is	thatthe  instrument of partnership must specify  the  individualshares	of  the	 partners.   If	 these	two  conditions	 aresatisfied it would be entitled to registration.	 The sectiondoes  not  say	that the firm must  be	constituted  by	 theinstrument  of	partnership.  It does not require  that	 thefirm must come into existence by reason of the instrument ofpartnership, or that the firm should be the creature of	 theinstrument  of partnership, or that the firm must not  existprior to the instrument of partnership being executed.In the case decided by the Bombay High Court, the Instrumentof  Partnership	 had been executed on March 27,	 1946,	witheffect from January 1, 1946.  On an application made to	 theDepartment  to register the firm, the matter was  determinedby the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal against the assessee onthe ground that the partnership was in existence before	 thedeed  was  executed, and that, therefore, it  could  not  beregistered.  Before the Bombay High Court, reliance had beenplaced	on behalf of the Department on the decision  of	 theCalcutta  High Court, now before us in appeal, as also on  adecision  of  the Punjab High Court.  The  decision  of	 theCalcutta High Court now under examination, in the case of R.C.  Mitter & Sons v. Commissioner of Income-tax	 (2),  takesthe view that s. 26A of the Act contemplates a firm  createdor  brought into existence by an Instrument of	Partnership,which  governs	the distribution of shares in  the  relevantaccounting period.  Such a deed should have(1)  [1956) 29 I.T.R. 903, 907.	 (2) [1955] 28	I.T.R.	698,704, 705.651come  into existence on or, before the commencement  of	 therelevant accounting period.  The other decision relied	uponin the Bombay High Court, had been given by a Division Benchof  the Punjab High Court, reported in Padam Parshad  RattanChand v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Delhi (1).On  the other hand, it has been contended on behalf  of	 theRevenue	 that in order to entitle a firm to  be	 registered,the  firm  should  have been created  by  an  Instrument  ofPartnership, or at any rate, such an Instrument should be inexistence during the relevant accounting year, that is,	 theyear previous to the year of assessment in respect of  whichthe  application  for registration has been made.   For	 thefirst  part of the submission on behalf of  the	 respondent,there is ample authority in the decision under appeal, whichbad been relied upon before the Bombay High Court.  In	thatcase,  (R.  C. Mitter & Sons v. Commissioner  of  Income-tax(supra) (2) ), Chakravarti, C. J., who delivered the opinionof  the	 Court	under  s. 66(1) of the	Act,  after  a	veryelaborate discussion, came to the conclusion which may	bestbe expressed in his own words, as follows:-" If by the expression I constituted under an instrument  ofpartnership'  is meant a firm which originated in  a  verbalagreement  but	with  respect to which	a  formal  deed	 wassubsequently executed, there would be no room in the sectionfor partnerships actually created by an instrument and	suchpartnerships,	although   most	  obviously   entitled	  toregistration,  would  be excluded from the  purview  of	 thesection.   Even etymologically or textually, I do Dot  thinkthat the word constituted', when used in relation to a	firmor such other body, can mean anything but I created when thereference  is  to  some	 deed or  instrument  to  which	 theinception of the firm or other body is to be traced.  "After  having,	thus, held that s.  26A	 contemplated  firmscreated	 or brought into existence by a deed in writing,  hehad  no	 difficulty in substituting " by " for	"  under  ",thus, making the crucial words " constituted(I) [1954] 25 I.T.R. 335.(2) [1955] 28 I.T.R. 698, 704, 705.652by  " instead of " constituted under ". In our opinion,	 thelearned Chief Justice fell into the error of re-constructingthe  provisions of the statute, instead of construing  them.The word " by " could be substituted for the word " under  "in  s. 26A only if the words, as they stand in the  section,were  not capable of making sense, and it would, thus,	havebeen necessary to amend the wording of the section.  Turninghis attention from the wording of the section to that of theRules and the Form appearing under the Rules, he again	cameto the conclusion that " some of the paragraphs of the	Formappear	to be ill-adjusted to the provisions of the  Act  ".Referring to other parts of the Rules, he was constrained toobserve that they"  would  lend strong support to  the	viewthat  what  is	meant  by 'any	firm  constituted  under  aninstrument of partnership' in section 26A is no more than  afir of which the constitution appears from an instrument  inwriting.   It is obvious that if such be the meaning of	 theexpression 'constituted under an instrument of partnership',the instrument need not be one by which the partnership	 wascreated ". But then he attempted to get over that difficultyby  observing  that the language of the Rules and  the	Formcould not supersede a provision contained in the Act itself.He  further opined that the language in para. 4(1) is "	 un-doubtedly  unsatisfactory ". In our opinion, any attempt  toreconstruct  the provisions of the relevant section and	 theRules,	 on  the  assumption  that  the	 intention  of	 thelegislature  was to limit the registration of firms to	onlythose	which  have  been  created  by	an   Instrument	  ofPartnership,  is, with all respect, erroneous.	 The  properway  to	 construe the provisions of the statute is  to	givefull effect to all the words of the relevant provisions,  totry  to	 read  them harmoniously, and then to  give  them  asensible  meaning.   Hence,  we have  to  consider,  at	 thethreshold,  the	 question whether the  words  "	 constitutedunder an Instrument of Partnership " have some meaning whichcan be attributed to them harmoniously with the rest of	 therelevant provisions.  A partnership may be created or set upby a contract in writing,653setting out all the terms and conditions of the partnership,but  there  may be many cases, and perhaps, such  cases	 aremore numerous than the other class, where a partnership	 hasbeen brought into existence by an oral agreement between theparties	  on  certain	 terms	and   conditions   which maysubsequently  be  reduced to writing which will	 answer	 thedescription  of	 an  Instrument	 of  Partnership.   Such  aninstrument  would,  naturally,	record	all  the  terms	 andconditions  of the contract between the parties	 which,.  atthe  initial  stages, had not been reduced to  writing.	  Insuch  a case, though the partnership had been  brought	intoexistence by an oral agreement amongst the partners, if	 theterms and conditions of the partnership have been reduced tothe  form of a document, it would be right to say  that	 thepartnership has been constituted under that instrument.	 Theword  " constituted " does not necessarily mean " created  "or  "  set  up ", though it may mean  that  also.   It	alsoincludes the idea of clothing the agreement in a legal form.In  the	 Oxford English Dictionary, Vol.  II, at pp.  875  &876, the word " constitute " is said to mean, inter alia,  "to  set	 up, establish, found (an institution, etc.)  "	 andalso  "	 to  give legal or official form  or  shape  to	 (anassembly, etc.) ". Thus, the word in its wider significance,would  include both, the idea of creating  or  establishing,and the idea of giving a legal form to, a partnership.	 TheBench of the Calcutta High Court in the case of R. C. Mitterand Sons v. Commissioner of Income-tax(1), under examinationnow,  was  not, therefore, right in restricting the  word  "constitute  "  to mean only " to create ", when	 clearly  itcould  also  mean  putting a thing in a	 legal	shape.	 TheBombay	High  Court,  therefore, in the	 case  of  DwarkadasKhetan	and Co. v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Bombay  City,Bombay (2), was right in holding that the section could	 notbe  restricted in its application only to a firm  which	 hadbeen  created by an instrument of partnership, and  that  itcould reasonably and in conformity with commercial practice,be  held  to  apply  to a firm	which  may  have  come	intoexistence earlier by an(1) [1955] 28 I.T.R. 698, 704, 705.(2) [1956] 29 I.T.R. 903, 907.654oral  agreement,  but  the  terms  and	conditions  of	 thepartnership have subsequently been reduced to the form of  adocument.   If	we construe the word " constitute "  in	 thelarger	sense, as indicated above, the difficulty  in  whichthe  learned Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court  foundhimself,  would	 be obviated inasmuch as the  section  wouldtake in cases both of firms coming into existence by  virtueof written documents as also those which may have  initiallycome  into existence by oral agreements, but which had	sub.sequently been constituted under written deeds.	 The purposeof  the	 provision  of the Income-tax Acts.  26A-is  not  tocompel	the firms which had been brought into  existence  byoral  agreements, to dissolve themselves and to	 go  throughthe  formality of constituting themselves by Instruments  ofPartnership.  If we construe the words " constituted under "in that wider sense, we give effect to the intention of	 thelegislature  of	 compelling a firm which bad  existed  as  aresult	of  an	oral agreement, to  enter  into	 a  documentdefining the terms and conditions of the partnership, so  asto  bind the partners to those terms, before they could	 getthe benefit of the provisions of s. 23 (5) (a).	 Section  23(5)  (a) confers a privilege upon partners who may  find  itmore worth their while to be assessed upon their  individualtotal income than upon the total income of the	partnership.It  is, therefore, very important from the point of view  ofthe  Revenue that the Department should be apprised in	timeof  the true constitution of the partnership, the  names  ofthe  true partners and the precise share of each of them  inthe partnership profits (or loss, if any).  The very  objectof  this provision will be defeated if the alleged  partner-ship  is  not genuine, or if the true  constitution  of	 thepartnership  and the respective shares of the partners,	 arenot  fully  and	 correctly  placed  on	record	as  soon  aspossible,   for	 the  purpose  of  'assessment.	   In	thisconnection, the provisions of s. 28(2) of the Act, are	alsoworth  noticing.   That	 sub-section provides  that  if	 theIncome-tax  Officer or the Appellate Authorities  under	 theAct,  are  satisfied that the profits of a  registered	firmhave been distributed otherwise than655in  accordance with the shares of the partners, as shown  inthe Instrument of Partnership registered under the Act,	 andgoverning  such	 distribution,	and  that  any	partner	 hasconcealed  any part of his profits, the	 penalty  prescribedtherein	 may  be imposed upon such a  partner.	 Unless	 theInstrument of Partnership has been registered in respect  ofthe accounting year and before the assessment has been done,the  penal provisions aforesaid cannot be enforced.  It	 is,therefore,   essential,	  in   the   interest	of    properadministration	and enforcement of the	relevant  provisionsrelating to the registration of firms, that the firms shouldstrictly comply with the requirements of the law, and it  isincumbent  upon	 the Income-tax Authorities to	insist	uponfull  compliance with the requirements of the law.  But,  inour  opinion,  there  is  no warrant in	 the  words  of	 therelevant   provisions	of  the	 statute   for	 restrictingregistration  under  s. 26A of the Act to those	 firms	onlywhich  have  been created or brought into  existence  by  anInstrument  of Partnership.  In our opinion, it is  more  inconsonance with the terms of the relevant provisions of	 theAct, referred to above, to hold that the words " constitutedunder an instrument of partnership " include not only  firmswhich have been created by an Instrument of Partnership	 butalso those which may have been created by word of mouth	 buthave been subsequently clothed in legal form by reducing theterms and conditions of the partnership to writing.We have already indicated that there has been a conflict  ofjudicial  opinion in the different High Courts in  India  onthe  question now before us.  But on a consideration of	 thefacts  in  each	 case, it will be found	 that  the  decisionarrived	 at  in most of the cases, was correct,	 though	 thereasons given appear to have gone beyond the requirements ofthe  case.   The  decision  of	the  Bombay  High  Court  inDwarkadas Khetan & Co. v.     Commissioner  of	 Income-tax,Bombay City, Bombay (1), discloses that the partnership thenin question had	    come into existence with effect from thebeginning of 1946, though the Instrument of Partnership(1)  [1956) 29 I.T.R. 903, 907.656was  executed  on March 27, 1946.  Thus, the  Instrument  ofPartnership came into existence during the accounting  year,whatever that year may have been, because the year 1946	 wasthe  starting year of the partner    Ship.   Hence, even theearliest assessment year, presumably the year 1947-48, wouldbe  governed  by  the terms and conditions  of	the  writtenInstrument  of Partnership aforesaid.  The decision  of	 theBombay	High  Court was followed by the same Bench  of	thatCourt  in  the case of Commissioner  of	 Income-tax,  BombayNorth  v. Shantilal Vrajlal & Chandulal Dayalal &  Co.	(1).In the second case, the learned Judges ruled that the secondpartnership  deed of September 12, 1951, which set  out	 thenames  and  shares of all the partners who  constituted	 thepartnership,   could  be  registered  in  respect   of	 theaccounting  year  November,  1948 to  October,	1949.	Thisconclusion was arrived at without even a mention, far less adiscussion,   of  the  relevant	 provisions  of	  the	Act.Apparently, the matter was not critically placed before	 thelearned Judges, when they decided the second case.  The con-clusion in this case is, with all respect, apparently  wrongin view of our conclusion that the Instrument of Partnershipshould have been in existence in the accounting year.In  the	 High  Court  of  Punjab,  the	question  was  fullydiscussed in a judgment of a Division Bench, given by one ofus  (Kapur,  J.,  as  he then was), in	the  case  of  KalsiMechanical  Works,  Nandpur v. Commissioner  of	 Income-tax,Simla  (2).  In that case, the firm had come into  existenceby   a	verbal	agreement  in  June,  1944.   The  deed	  ofpartnership  was  drawn	 up as late as	May  9,	 1949.	 Theapplication  for registration of the firm under S.  26A	 forthe assessment year 1949-50, was dismissed by the lncome-taxAuthorities as also by the Tribunal.  The High Court,  afteran  elaborate examination of the relevant provisions of	 theAct, including the Rules and the Forms, upheld the orders ofthe  Department.  The conclusion of the Bench was  in  theseterms:-" The sections of the Income-tax Act show that(1) [1957] 3I I.T.R. 903.(2) [1953] 24 I.T.R. 353, 361.657for  the  purpose of registration it is necessary  that	 thefirm  should be constituted by an instrument of	 partnershipand in my opinion the Rules read with Sections 26 and 28  ofthe Act indicate that such a firm as is constituted under aninstrument  of	partnership should have	 been  in  existenceduring the account period and should not come into existenceduring	the assessment year, and if it was not in  existenceduring	the account period it cannot be registered so as  toaffect	the  liabilities  of  the  partners  for  income-taxaccruing during the account period."The conclusion reached is correct, except, with all respect,for the observation that under s. 26A, it is necessary	thatthe  firm  should  be constituted " by "  an  instrument  ofpartnership.  That is the leading judgment in the High Courtof  Punjab.   It was followed by another Division  Bench  ofthat Court in the   case of Padam ParshadRattan Chand v.Commissioner   of Income-tax, Delhito  the effect  thatconstituted    under an instrument in	 s.    26A,    meantcreated or     formed by a formal deed". In this case, thebusiness of the firm had started from April 1, 1947, but theInstrument  of Partnership was executed on April  10,  1950.The application for registration was made in respect of	 theassessment  year  1948-49.  It is clear	 with  reference  tothese  dates that the Instrument of Partnership was  not  inexistence  either during the accounting year or even  duringthe assessment year, and the Court, therefore, rightly	heldthat  the partnership could not be registered in respect  ofthe  assessment year; but they proceeded further to  observethat  there  was no objection to the firm being	 treated  ashaving	been  constituted under the Instrument as  from	 thedate  of the Instrument itself.	 The answer of the Court  tothe  question posed, was that the firm could  be  registerednot  in	 respect  of  the  assessment  year  for  which	 theapplication had been made, but with effect from the date  ofthe Instrument.	 Apparently, the attention of the Court	 wasnot drawn to the Rules aforesaid, particularly, Rules 2	 and3, which require(1)  [1954] 25 I.T.R. 335.83658that the application has to be made before the assessment iscompleted  and	for a particular assessment year.   More  orless  to  the  same effect, are	 two  other  Division  Benchrulings	 Of that High Court in Bery  Engineering  Co., Delhiv.  Commissioner  of Income-tax, Delhi	(1)  and  Income-taxCommissioner,  Delhi v. Messrs.	 Birdhi Chand  Girdhari	 Lal(2).  In all these cases in the Punjab High Court, the deedscame  into existence later than the accounting year  or	 theassessment   year,  and	 therefore,  could  not	 have	beenregistered.   The  actual  decisions  in  these	 cases	werecorrect,  though there are orbiter dicta to the effect	thats.  26A requires that the firm should have been	 created  orset up by an Instrument of Partnership.In  the	 Patna	High  Court,  the  very	 same  question	 wasdiscussed at great length by a Division Bench of that Court,presided  over	by Ramaswami, C. J., in the case  of  KhimjiWalji & Co. v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Bihar and  Orissa(3).	The  learned  Chief  Justice,  after  an   elaborateexamination  of the relevant provisions of the Act, came  tothe conclusion in theseterms"  It  is necessary for the purpose  of	 registration  underSection 26A that the partnership should be constituted by aninstrument of partnership and that such a partnership as  isconstituted  under an instrument of partnership should	havebeen in existence during the accounting year ".It  is	on  the same lines as the leading  judgment  of	 thePunjab High Court, supra.  With reference to the dates givenin the judgment, the decision is right, though, in this casealso, the words " constituted under " have been construed as" constituted by ", without discussing the necessity for  soamending  the  words of the statute, even as in	 the  PunjabHigh Court decisions.As  a  result  of the above discussion,	 the  conclusion  isreasonably  clear that unless the partnership  business	 wascarried on in accordance with the terms of an Instrument  ofPartnership which was operative during(1) [1955] 28 I.T.R. 227.	 (2) [1955] 28 I.T.R. 28o.(3) [1954] 25 I.T.R. 462, 470.659the  accounting year, it cannot be registered in respect  ofthe  following	assessment  year.  As in  these	 cases,	 thepartnership did not admittedly function under such a deed ofpartnership, the Department and the High Court were right inrefusing  registration.	 We would, therefore, dismiss  theseappeals,  but  for different reasons to those  given  below.The  respondent is entitled to his costs-one set of  hearingfees to be paid half and half by the appellants.HIDAYATULLAH,  J.-I  have had the advantage of	reading	 thejudgment  just	delivered by my brother, Sinha, J.  I  agreethat s. 26A of the Indian Income-tax Act must be read as  itis.   The  words  of the section, as  they  stand,  are	 notmeaningless,  and in view of the decision  in  Commissionersfor   special Purpose of the Income-tax v. Pemsel (1) it  isnot possible to read for the expression " constituted  under" the words constituted by ".I   entertain,	however,  some	doubt  as  to  whether	 theinstrument  sought to be registered, should be in  existencein the accounting year, before registration can be  claimed.There  is nothing in the Act which says	 this  specifically.My brother has reasoned from the contents of the Act and theRules  that such a condition is implied.  While I  entertainsome doubts, I am not prepared to record a dissent, more  soas  the	 Board of Revenue has issued instructions  that	 allfirms  should  be registered, whether  the  documents  underwhich  they were constituted existed in the accounting	yearor not, provided the Income-tax Officer was satisfied  aboutthe genuineness of the firms.In  the	 result,  I agree that the appeals  should  be	dis.missed with costs.			      Appeals dismissed.(1) [1891] A.C. 531. 542.660