PETITIONER:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, BOMBAY	Vs.RESPONDENT:S. K. F. BALL BEARING CO., LTD.DATE OF JUDGMENT:10/08/1960BENCH:SHAH, J.C.BENCH:SHAH, J.C.DAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1294ACT:Income-tax--Agent selling goods manufactured by	 Principal--Remittances  of sale Proceeds made to the  Principal  beforeand  after the recovery of Price of  goods--Profits--Whetherinclude	 remittances  made before recovery of Price  by	 theAgent--The  Indian  Income-tax Act, 1922 (II  of  1922),  s.4(1)(a).HEADNOTE:A  Swedish  company  manufacturing  ball  bearing  equipmententered into an agreement with the respondent, S. K. F. BallBearing Co. Ltd. registered under the Indian Companies	Act,1913,  appointing  the latter as its sole selling  agent  inIndia.	The material portion of the Agreement ran thus:-"  Clause  23:- The Agent shall pay to S. K.  F.  net  salesvalue  of the said products that are sold each month,  afterdeduction  of the Commission that has been agreed  upon	 andthe  import expenses that have been paid.  Payment shall  bemade in Sweden thirty days at the latest following the	lastday of the month in which the sales have been effected."During the second world war a corporation known as the	Pan-rope Corporation was incorporated in the Republic of  Panamato take over the assets and business of the Swedish  companyand  the said Panrope Corporation in its turn  conveyed	 theproperty  and business to the Swedish  company.	  Thereafterthe  respondent	 company sold in India as the agent  of	 theforeign	 Corporations goods manufactured by them, and  in  amajority of the sales the respondent company remitted the  "sale  value  " to the foreign corporations after  the  goodswere  sold but before the sale proceeds were recovered	fromthe buyers.  In some cases remittances were made even beforethe  goods  were sold and in others  remittances  were	madeafter the sale proceeds were realised from the buyers.	 TheIncome-tax  Officer assessed the foreign corporations  unders.  4(1)(a) of the Indian Income-tax Act for payment of	 taxon  the	 profit	 included  in  the  price  realised  by	 therespondent  company without making any	distinction  betweenremittances  made before recovery of the sale  proceeds	 andremittances made after recovery of the sale proceeds.	Thisorder  was confirmed by the higher  income-tax	authorities.On  a  reference  made at the  instance	 of  the  respondentcompany	 the  High  Court came to the  conclusion  that	 theforeign	 corporations  had  a  business	 connection  in	 thetaxable	 territories  in  the  years  of  account  and	 therespondent  company  was liable to pay tax on  their  behalfonly with regard to remittances made after the sale proceedswere recovered.	 On appeal by the Commissioner of Income-taxby special leave,142Held, that the liability to pay income-tax finder s, 4(1)(a)arose on the receipt of the income and the question  whetherthe  income  was  received  in	the  taxable  territory	 wasdetermined by the place where the price was received.Profits were received by the respondent company on behalf ofthe foreign corporations in the taxable territory in respectof all sales of consigned goods irrespective of whether	 theremittances  were made either before or after the price	 wasreceived.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 9 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedFebruary  24,  1955,  of the former  Bombay  High  Court  inIncome-tax Reference No. 50/X of 1954.K.   N. Rajagopal Sastri and D. Gupta, for the appellant.R.   J.	 Kolah,	 S. N. Andley, J. B.  Dadachanji,  RameshwarNath and P. L. Vohra, for the respondent.1960.	August 10.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbySHAH, J.-Aktiebolaget Svenska Kullakerfabriken of Gothenburgis  a company incorporated under the laws of Sweden, and  isengaged in the manufacture of ball bearing equipment.  S. K.F.  Ball  Bearing  Co.,	 Ltd.,	which  will  hereinafter  bereferred to as " the S. K. F." is a company registered underthe  Indian  Companies	Act, 1913.  By	an  agreement  datedJanuary	 1, 1939, the S. K. F. was appointed by the  Swedishcompany as its sole selling agent in India.  On account	 ,ofthe  commencement of hostilities in the second world war,  acorporation   known   as   the	 Panrope   Corporation	 wasincorporated in the Republic of Panama in 1940, to take overas  a war-time arrangement the assets and business  of	thatSwedish company.  With effect from July 1, 1947, the PanropeCorporation  conveyed  the  property  and  business  to	 theSwedish company.  In the years 1947, 1948, 1949 and 1950 theS.  K.	F. sold in India as the agent 'of  the	Swedish	 andPanamian  companies-which will hereinafter  be	collectivelyreferred  to  as  the " foreign	 corporations  "  the  goodsmanufactured by them.  A small quantity of goods was  boughtby the S. K. F.143and  sold  by it in India, but no question  arises  in	thisappeal about the liability to pay income-tax in respect,  ofsale  of  those	 goods and no reference is  made  herein  inrespect	 of those sales.  The Income-tax Officer,  CompaniesCircle 11(3), Bombay, exercising powers vested in him by  s.43 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, having appointed	 theS. K. F. as the statutory agent of the foreign	corporationsfor the assessment year 1948-49, and of the Swedish  companyfor  the assessment years 1949-50, 1950-51 and 1951-52,	 theS. K. F. submitted returns of income for these years in	 thetaxable territory on behalf of the foreign corporations. Clauses  13,  22 and 23 of the agreement dated	 January  1,1939, between the S. K. F. and the Swedish company which arematerial for the purpose of this appeal are as follows:-Clause	13:-The Agent shall render before the tenth  day  ofeach  month  a	true  and detailed  statement  of  the	saidProducts that have been sold by him or his Sub-Agents duringthe  preceding month.  This statement is to be	prepared  inaccordance  with instructions that are to be given by S.  K.F.  and	 it  shall contain the names and  addresses  of	 theparties	 to  whom  the said  Products  have  been  supplied,together  with a description of the Products and the  pricesat which they have been sold.Clause 22:-The Agent shall sell the said Products either forcash or on credit.  Notwithstanding the fact that permissionis hereby granted by S. K. F. to the Agent to sell on creditany  credit  given  by the Agent to the buyer  of  the	saidProducts shall be deemed to have been given by the Agent forhis own account and on his own responsibility.	If the buyerhas not paid the Agent the amount that is owing by the	dateon which the Agent is to render a statement and make paymentto  S. K. F. for such sales that have been made	 on  credit,the Agent shall nevertheless be liable to effect payment  toS.  K. F. in accordance with the terms and  conditions	thatare defined in this Agreement.Clause 23:-The Agent shall pay to S. K. F. the144net  sales  value of the said Products that  are  sold	eachmonth,	after  deduction  of the commission  that  has	beenagreed	upon (cf 20) and the import expenses that have	beenpaid (of. 21).	Payment shall be made in Sweden thirty	(30)days, at the latest, following the last day of the month  inwhich the sales have  been effected.The  Income-tax	 Appellate  Tribunal  has  found  that	 forrendering  accounts  of the net sales and  also	 for  makingpayments according to the terms of el. 13 of the  agreement,the  S. K. F. maintained for the relevant periods a  currentaccount in the names of the foreign corporations in  respectof  goods " received on consignment ". When goods were	soldby  the S. K. F., the account of the principal was  creditedwith  the  price and the account of the buyers to  whom	 thegoods  were  sold on credit was debited.  In a	majority  ofcases of sales, remittances of "sale value" after  deductingcommission  were made after sale of the goods to the  buyersbut  before  the  sale proceeds were recovered.	  In  a	 fewcases,	remittances  were made even before  the	 goods	weresold, and in the remaining, remittances were made after	 thesale proceeds were realized from the buyers.The  Income-tax	 Officer assessed the  foreign	corporationsunder s. 4(1)(a) of the Indian Income-tax Act for payment oftax on the profits included in the price realized by the  S.K.  F. by sale of goods " received on consignment "  withoutmaking any distinction between sales in respect of which theremittances  were made after recovery of sale  proceeds	 andsales in respect of which remittances were made before reco-very of the sale proceeds.  The order passed by the  Income-tax  Officer  was  confirmed  by  the  Appellate   AssistantCommissioner and also by the Income-tax Appellate  Tribunal.At  the	 instance of the S. K. F., the	following  questionswere  referred	to the High Court of  Judicature  at  Bombayunder s. 66(1) of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922:(1)  Whether there was evidence on which the Tribunal  couldhave held that the Panrope Corporation and   the	non-resident company had a business145connection  in	the  taxable territories  in  the  years  ofaccount ?(2)  Whether the profits of the Panrope Corporation and	 thenon-resident  company  in respect of the  consignment  goodswere received in the taxable territories on their behalf ?At  the	 hearing of the reference before  the  High,  Court,counsel	 for the assessee having conceded that the S. K.  F.was not a purchaser of the goods " received on consignment "from the foreign corporations, but was their agent for	saleof  the goods, an answer in the affirmative was recorded  onthe first question.  On the second question, the High  Courtopined	that as the remittances by the S. K. F. pursuant  tothe  terms of cl. 23 of the agreement before the  sale	pro-ceeds  were  realized from the buyers were received  by	 theforeign corporations outside the taxable territory, the samecould  not  be taken into account under s.  4(1)(a)  of	 theIndian Income-tax Act in assessing the taxable income of theforeign	 corporations.	The High Court observed that the  S.K.  F.	was  liable  to pay tax on  behalf  of	the  foreigncorporations  under s. 4(1)(a) only if the taxing  authorityestablished  that the foreign corporations had received	 thesale proceeds within the taxable territories; that the	saleproceeds were received by the foreign corporations when	 theS. K. F. made remittances under cl. 23 of the agreement, butsomewhat  inconsistently  the High Court observed  that	 theremittances  made by the S. K. F. before the  sale  proceedswere realized, were remittances not of sale proceeds, but indischarge  of its obligation under el. 23 of the  agreement;and that the realizations by the S. K. F. from the buyers ofthe  goods  subsequent to the remittances were not  of	saleproceeds  on  behalf of the foreign  corporations  but	werereceipts  on  its own behalf and in its own  right,  and  inrecoupment   of	  the  amounts	remitted  to   the   foreigncorporations.	The  High  Court  accordingly  answered	 thesecond question in the affirmative " to the extent that	 theremittances were made after the sale proceeds were  receivedby the assessee company".19146We   are  unable  to  agree  with  the	reasoning  and	 the,,conclusion of the High Court.	 The terms of the  agreementmake  it  abundantly  clear that the  goods  "	received  onconsignment " from the foreign corporations were received bythe  S. K. F. as their selling agent and not  as  purchaser.The goods, it is true, were sold by the	 S. K. F. in its ownname  and not in the name of the foreign  corporations,	 butthe  goods were still sold for and on behalf of the  foreigncorporations and the sale proceeds received by the S. K.  F.were received not on its own behalf but for and on behalf ofits principals.	 Clauses 9, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18 and 20 of theagreement clearly show that the goods received by the S.  K.F.  continued  to remain the property of  the  foreign	cor-porations  till they were sold to the buyers.  In the  pricereceived for sale of the goods, the profit of the owner	 wasin  truth  embedded and that profit was liable to  be  taxedunder  s.  4(1)(a) of the Indian Income. tax Act if  it	 wasreceived in the taxable territory.  It is not disputed	thatthe  sale proceeds realized by the S. K. F. in	the  taxableterritory  as  agent  of  the  foreign	corporations  beforeremittances under the terms of the agreement were liable  tobe  taxed.  Does the circumstance that the S. K. F.  had  indischarge of an obligation undertaken by it made remittancesunder  the  terms of the agreement before  it  realized	 theprice of the goods sold alter the nature of the realizations?  The remittances made by the S. K. F. indisputably reachedthe foreign corporations in respect of all sales outside thetaxable	 territory.   But the S. K. F. was their  agent	 forsale  of  the  goods, and for receiving	 the  price  in	 thetaxable	 territory.  The relation between the S. K.  F.	 andthe  foreign  corporations was not  altered  because  beforerealizing the price from the buyers remittances were made tothe foreign corporations.  The price of goods sold by the S.K. F. whether before or after remittance was realized as theagent of the foreign corporations.  If remittance in respectof a sale was made before the price was realized, the S.  K.F. became entitled to adjust the account and to take  creditfor  the  amount  paid out of  the  realization.   What	 theforeign corporations received under remittances147made  before or after realization of the price was  not	 thesale  proceeds in respect of sales, but amounts. due by	 theS.  K.	F. under an obligation expressly  undertaken  by  itunder  cl. 23 of the agreement.	 The price of goods sold  bythe  S.	 K. F. were in all cases received by it	 within	 thetaxable	 territory  ; and the S. K. F. being the  agent	 forsale,  and for receiving the price, the income	embedded  inthe  sale  proceeds  must be deemed to be  received  by	 theforeign corporations also within the taxable territory.	  Itis  the receipt of income which gives rise under s.  4(1)(a)of  the Indian Income-tax Act to liability to pay  tax:	 andthe  place where the price is received is  determinative  ofthe  question whether the income is received in the  taxableterritory.The  price  for the goods sold was received  only  when	 thebuyer  paid  it	 and  not before, and  when  the  price	 wasreceived  by  the S. K. F., the income	was  received.	 Theremittances  by	 the S. K. F. to  the  foreign	corporationsbefore	the  price  was received  did  not  include  income,because income in fact was never received till the price wasrealized.  Again we are unable to agree with the  contentionof  counsel  for the S. K. F. that there was a	contract  ofsuretyship between the foreign corporations and the S. K. F.and the receipt by the former of the remittances amounted toreceipt of the price of the goods.  It is not pretended thatthere was a tripartite contract and the foreign corporationssold  the goods directly to the purchasers in India, the  S.K.  F. having guaranteed payment of the price by the  buyersto whom the goods had been sold.The price received by the S. K. F. being received within thetaxable	  territory  for  and  on  behalf  of  the   foreigncorporations in respect of goods sold, we are unable to holdthat  the realization of the price in which is embedded	 theprofit	is  not	 liable to tax under s.	 4(1)(a)  as  incomereceived,  merely because under an  independent	 obligation,the  S. K. F. has rendered itself liable to pay	 the  amountequivalent  to the price (less commission) even	 before	 theprice has been realized and has discharged that obligation.In the view taken by us, the second question will be148answered in the affirmative in respect of sale of all ,goodswhere  the  price  has been received by the  S.K.F.  in	 thetaxable	  territory,   and  irrespective  of   whether	 theremittance has been made in respect of the goods sold beforeor after the price was received.The  appeal is accordingly allowed to the extent  indicated.The  appellant will be entitled to his costs in	 this  courtand also the costs of the reference in the High Court.				Appeal partly allowed.		      -----------------