PETITIONER:MOHD.  HANIF QUARESHI & OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BIHAR(and connected petition)DATE OF JUDGMENT:23/04/1958BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, S.K.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BOSE, VIVIANCITATION: 1958 AIR  731		  1959 SCR  629ACT:       Cow     slaughter-Legislation	Placing	   total     ban-If       Constitutional -Directive Principles of State Policy,  value       of-Fundamental		    rights		 Reasonable       restrictions--Test-Intention  in Supreme Court  Proceedings,       when  permissible-Bihar	Preservation  and  Improvement	 of       Animals	Act, 1955 (Bihar II of 1956)-U.	 P. Preve  lion	 of       Cow Slaughter Act, 1955 (U.  P. 1 of 1956)-C.  P. and  Berar       Animal  Preservation  Act,  1949 (C.  P. and  Berar  LII	 of       1949)-Constitution  of  India, Arts.  14,  19,  48---Supreme       Court Rules, 0. XLI, r. 2.HEADNOTE:The Bihar Preservation and Improvement of Animals Act  ,955,put  a	total  ban on the slaughter  of	 all  categories  ofanimal,,  of  the  species  of bovine  cattle.	 The  U.  P.Prevention  of Cow Slaughter Act, 1955, put a total  ban  onthe slaughter of cows and her progeny which included  bulls,bullocks,  heifers and calves.	The C. P. and  Berar  AnimalPreservation Act, 1949, placed a total ban on the  slaughterof cows, male or female calves of cow, bulls, bullocks,	 andheifers	 and  the slaughter of buffaloes  (male	 or  female,adults	or  calves) was permitted only under  a	 certificategranted by the proper authorities.  No exception was made inany  of these Acts permitting slaughter of cattle  even	 forbona fide religious purposes.  These three Acts were enactedin  pursuance  of the directive principles of  State  policycontained in Art. 48 Of the Constitution.  The	petitioners,who  were engaged in the butcher's trade and its  subsidiaryundertakings, challenged the constitutional validity of	 thethree  Acts on the grounds that they infringed their  funda-mental rights guaranteed under Arts. 14, 19(1)(g) and 25  ofthe  Constitution.   The  respondents  contended  that	 theimpugned  Acts	were constitutional and valid as  they	weremade in consonance with the directive principles of Art-  48which  were superior to the fundamental rights and that	 theimpugned Acts did not offend Art. 14, 19(1)(g) or 25Held,  (i) that a total ban on the slaughter of cows of	 allages  and  calves  of cows and of  she-buffaloes,  male	 andfemale, was quite reasonable and valid;(ii)that  a total ban on the slaughter of  she-buffaloes  orbreeding  bulls	 or  working bullocks  (cattle	as  well  asbuffaloes),  as long as they were capable of being  used  asmilch or draught cattle, was also reasonable and valid; and(iii)  that a total ban on the slaughter  of  she-buffaloes,bulls630and  bullocks  (cattle or buffalo) after they ceased  to  becapable	 of  yielding  milk or of  breeding  or	 working  asdraught	 animals  was not in the interests  of	the  generalpublic and was invalid.The directive in Art. 48 for taking steps for preventing theslaughter  of  animals is quite explicit  and  positive	 andcontemplates   a  ban  on  the	slaughter  of  the   severalcategories  of animals specified therein, namely,  cows	 andcalves	and  other cattle which answer	the  description  ofmilch or draught cattle.  The protection is confined only tocows and calves and to those animals which are presently  orpotentially  capable  of yielding milk or of doing  work  asdraught	 cattle but does not extend to cattle which  at	 onetime  were milch or draught cattle but which have ceased  tobe  such.  The directive principles of State policy set	 outin Part IV of the Constitution have to conform to and run assubsidiary to the fundamental rights in Part 111.State of Madras v. Smt.	 Champakam Dorairajan, [1951] S.C.R.525, followed.The  ban on the slaughter of cows even on the slaughter	 daydid  not violate the fundamental rights of  the	 petitionersunder  Art.  25	 as it had not	been  established  that	 thesacrifice  of a cow on that day was an obligatory overt	 actfor a Mussalman to exhibit his religious belief and idea.Ratilal	 Panachand  Gandhi v. The State	 of  Bombay,  [1954]S.C.R. 1055, applied.The  impugned  Acts  which affected only  the  butchers	 whoslaughtered  cattle  and not the  butchers  who	 slaughteredsheep or goats, did not offend Art. 14 Of the  Constitution.The  different	categories of animals being  susceptible  ofclassification	into separate groups on the basis  of  theirusefulness  to society, the butchers who kill each  categorymay  also  be placed in distinct classes  according  to	 theeffect	produced  on  society by the carrying  on  of  theirrespective occupations.	 This classification is based on  anintelligible  differentia which places the petitioners in  awell  defined  class and distinguishes them from  those	 whoslaughter  sheep or goats and this differentia has  a  closeconnection with the object sought to be achieved by the	 im-pugned	Acts,  namely,	the  preservation,  protection	 andimprovement of livestock.In  determining	 the  question	of  the.  reasonableness  ofrestrictions imposed on the fundamental rights conferred  byArt.  19(1)(g) the Court cannot proceed on a general  notionof  what  is  reasonable  in the abstract  or  even  on	 theconsideration  of what is reasonable from the point of	viewof  the	 person	 or persons on	whom  the  restrictions	 areimposed.   What the Court has to do is to  consider  whetherthe restrictions imposed are reasonable in the interests  ofthe  general  public.  The test of reasonableness  has	beenlaid  down in State of Madras v. I.  G. Row,  [1952]  S.C.R.597  at	 602.	It  should  also  be  remembered  that	 thelegislature631is the best judge of what is good for the community.  Thougha  constitutional question cannot be decided on the  groundsof  the sentiment of a section of the people, it has  to  betaken  into  consideration,  though  only  as  one  of	 theelements,  in  arriving	 at a judicial	verdict	 as  to	 thereasonableness of the restrictions.The effect of the impugned Acts on the fundamental rights ofthe   petitioners   under  Art.	 19(1)(g)  is	direct	 andinstantaneous  as soon as the Acts are brought	into  force,and  it has to be determined whether they can  be  justifiedunder  cl. (6) of Art. 19 The country is in short supply  ofmilch  cattle,	breeding bulls and working bullocks,  and  atotal  ban on the slaughter of these which are essential  tothe  national economy for the supply of	 milk,	agriculturalworking power and manure is a reasonable restriction in	 theinterests  of  the general public.  But a total ban  on	 theslaughter of useless cattle, which involves a wasteful drainon the nation's cattle feed which is itself in short  supplyand  which  would deprive the useful cattle of	much  needednourishment,  cannot be justified as being in the  interestsof the general public.Under O. XLI r. 2, Of file Supreme Court Rules	interventionis  permitted only to the Attorney-General of India  or	 theAdvocates-General  for	the  States.   There  is  no   otherprovision  for permitting a third party to intervene in	 theproceedings before the Supreme Court.  In practice, however,the  Supreme  Court, in- exercise of  its  inherent  powers,allows a third party to	 intervene when such third party  isa  party to some proceedings in the Supreme Court or in	 theHigh  Courts  where  the same or similar  questions  are  inissue,	for the decision of the Supreme Court will  concludethe case of that party.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petitions Nos. 58, 83, 84, 103,	117,126, 127, 128, 248, 144 & 145 of 1956 & 129 of 1957.Petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forenforcement of Fundamental Rights.H.   J. Umrigar, N. H. Hingorani and A. G. Ratnaparkhi,	 forthe petitioners in all the petitions except Petition No. 103of 1956.  The impugned Acts infringe the fundamental  rightsunder  Art.  19(1)(g) of the petitioners who  are  butchers,tanners,  gut merchants, curers and cattle dealers to  carryon their respective trades.  Where, as in the present  case,the enactment on the face of it violates a fundamental rightthe  burden  lies on those who support it to  show  that  itfalls  within  the purview of cl. (6) of Art.  19.   Saghir,Ahmed v. The State of U.P., ([1955] 1 S.C.R. 707 at 726);632Chiranjitlal Chowdhuri v. The Union of India, ([1950] S.C.R.869  at 891-892).  The impugned Acts put a total ban on	 thetrade and business of the petitioners who kill only  cattle.Total  prohibition  of	a trade	 which	is  not	 immoral  orobnoxious  can	never be reasonable restriction	 within	 themeaning	 of el. (6) of Art. 19.	 Chintaman Rao v. The  Stateof  Madhya  Pradesh,  ([1950]  S.C.R.  759  at	765);	R.M.Sheshadri  v. The District Magistrate ( [1955] 1 S.C.R.	 686at  689, 690); Cooverjee B. Bharucha v. The  Excise  Commis-sioner,	 ( [1954] S.C.R. 873); Rashid Ahmed.  The  MunicipalBoard,	Kairana,  ([1950]  S.C.R. 566).	 Total	ban  on	 theslaughter  of cattle is not in the interests of the  generalpublic.	 Animal husbandry will suffer by a total ban.  Thereis  shortage  of fodder and pasture in the country  and	 theuseless and uneconomic cattle will deprive the useful cattleof these things.  Setting up of Gosadans for the  uneconomiccattle will be a tremendous waste of public money.  [Counselreferred to various official reports in this connection.]The  impugned Acts create an odious  discrimination  betweenbutchers  and persons dealing solely in cows,  bulls,  etc.,and  those dealing in sheep and goats, and offend  Art.	 14.These Acts which single out the petitioners' community whichkills only cows, bulls, etc., are hostile and discriminatorylegislation.   Ye Cong Eng v. Trinidad, (70 L. Ed.  1059  at1071);	Fowler	v. Rhode Island, (97 L. Ed.  828);  Lane  v.Wilson, (83 L. Ed.  1281 at 1287); Ligget Co.  v.  Baldrige,(73 L. Ed. 204).The  impugned Acts also contravene Art. 25 as they  prohibitthe Mussalmans from performing the religious practice of thecommunity  to sacrifice the cow on the occasion of Bakr	 Id.Ratilal	 Panachand  Gandhi v. The State of  Bombay,  ([1954]S.C.R. 1055 at 1063).The directive principles of State policy set out in Art.  48can never override fundamental rights.	The State of  Madrasv.  Sm.	 Champakam Dorairajan, ([1951]) S.C.R. 525 at  530);Saghir Ahmed's Case, ( [1955] ) 1  S.C.R. 707 at 727).	 Theimpugned  Acts traverse, beyond the directive principles  inArt. 48.633The  Bihar and the Madhya Pradesh Acts which  affect  inter-State trade in cattle and beef offend Art. 301 and are	voidas  the	 assent	 of  the President  was	 riot  taken  beforeenacting them.Frank  Anthony	and  K. L. Mehta,  for	the  petitioners  inPetition No. 103 of 1956.  Section 9 of the U. P. Preventionof  Cow	 Slaughter Act makes the slaughtering  of  cattle  acognisable   and  non-bailable	offence.   This	 and   otherprovisions of the Act are ex facie restrictions on the rightof the petitioners to carry on their trade.  The onus is  onthe respondents to show that the restrictions are reasonablerestrictions  in  the  interests  of  the  general   public.Chintaman Rao v. The State of Madhya Pradesh, ([1950] S.  C.R. 759 at 763); Seghir Ahmed v. The State of U. P.,  ([1955]1 S. C. It. 707 at 726).  The legislation is colourable	 andmala  fide and is inspired by religious motives.   State  ofMadras	v. V. G. Rao, ([1952] S. C. R. 597).  Article 48  inso far as its imposes blanket ban on cow would have to yieldto  Art. 19 (1) (g).  The restrictions in the Act amount  tototal  prohibition  and	 extinction of	the  trade  of	beefbutchers.   Saghir Ahmed's case; Dwarka Prasad Laxmi  Narainv.  The	 State	of U. P., (  [1954]  S.C.R.  803),  FairmoutCreamery  Co.  v. Minnesota, (71 L. Ed. 893  it	 897).	 Theimpugned Act offends Art. 14 as it discriminates against thebeef  butchers.	  These	 butchers  have	 a  legal  right  toslaughter  cow	for food or sacrifice.	 Naubahar  Singh  v.Qadir  Bux, (A. 1. R. 1930 All. 753); Shahbazkhan  v.  UmraoPuri, (I.  L. R. 30 All. 181); Emperor -v.  Muhammad  Yakub,(I.  L. R. 32 All. 571).C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, with  Mahabir-Prasad,	  Advocate-General   of	 Bihar	and  S.	  P.   Varma(respondent  in Petitions Nos. 58, 83 and 84 of	 1956),	 andwith  R. H. Dhebar, for the State of Bombay  (respondent  inPetition No. 117 of 1956).  The legislature has thought	 fitthat  slaughter	 of cattle should be stopped  in  the  interstates of animal husbandry and public policy.  It is not forthe  Court  to say that such a policy should not  have	beenadopted.  Both on the question of policy at-id the extent ofthe restrictions634the  Court should interfere only if it is convinced that  inno view of the matter could the restrictions be	 reasonable.There  are  two conflicting opinions on	 this  controversialmatter,	 i.  e., whether there should be total ban  or	onlypartial ban.  In such a case the opinion of the	 legislatorsmust prevail and the Court should not interfere where  thereis controversy as to facts.  State of -Madras v. V. G.	Rao,([1952]	 S.  C.	 R.  597 at 606);  The	State  of  Bihar  v.Maharajadhiraja Sir Kameshwar Singh, ([1952] S. C. R. 889 at941);  Arumugham v. State of Madras, (I.  L. R. [1953]	Mad.937).	Unless it can be said that the restrictions have  nobearing on the object sought to be achieved the	 legislationmust  be upheld.  Article 37 enjoins the State to apply	 thedirective  principles  of  State policy in Part	 IV  of	 theConstitution   in  making  law.,  The  legislation   is	  inaccordance with the direction given in Art. 48.The object of the legislation is not to control any trade orindustry but to improve the breed of cattle and to  organiseanimal	husbandry and agriculture.  Unless  the	 legislationdirectly hits trade or business it does not infringe Art. 19(1)  (g).  A. K. Gopalan v. The State, ( [1950] S. C. R.  88at 101); Ram Singh v. The State of Delhi, ( [1951] S. C.  R.451  at	 455-457); R. S. Ram Jawaya Kapur v.  The  State  ofPunjab, ([1955] 2 KS.  C. R. 225); State of Bombay v. R.  M.D. Chamar-baugwala, ( A. I. R. 1957 S. C. 699 at 721).B.Sen and R. H. Dhebar, for the State of Bombay	 (respondentin  Petitions Nos. 126 to 128 and 248 of 1956), and for	 theState  of Madhya Pradesh (respondent in Petition No. 144  of1956).M.Adhicary,  Advocate-General  for  the,  State	 of   MadhyaPradesh	 and I. N. Shroff, for the State of  Madhya  Pradesh(respondent  in	 Petition  No. 145  of	1956),	adopted	 thearguments of C. K. Daphtary.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India,	G.C.Mathur and C. P. Lal, for the State of U. P. (respondent  inPetitions Nos. 103 of 1956 and 129 of 1957).  The provisionsof  the U. P. Act have a reasonable relation to the  purposein view i. e. the directive635in Art. 48 and consequently the Act cannot be said to offendArt.  19  (1)  (g).  Chintaman Rao v. The  State  of  MadhyaPradesh,  ([1950]  S. C. R. 759 at 763).  According  to	 thefacts	and  figures  given  in	 the  Gosamvardhan   EnquiryCommittee's  Report  the  cattle  population  was   actuallydecreasing  and	 total	ban on slaughter  was  necessary  toprotect	 and  preserve the cattle.  The State of U.  P.	 hadmade ample provisions for looking after the decrepit cattle,and such cattle also was not uneconomic as it yielded  hidesand manure.The  U. P. Act which prohibits the slaughter of	 cattle	 butnot  that  of  buffaloes  does not offend  Art.	 14  as	 thediscrimination	is  based upon proper  classification.	 Thebuffalo does not require any protection.  The female buffalois in no danger as its yield of milk is very high.  The	 he-buffalo is not very useful for draught purposes and there isno  need to protect it.	 Besides, the buffalo population  issteadily increasing.The  U. P. Act does not violate Art. 25.  Article 25 of	 ourConstitution is similar to Art. 8 of the Irish Constitution.There  is  no  religious compulsion  on	 the  Mussalmans  tosacrifice a cow on Bakr Id Day.Thakurdas   Bhargava,  as  amicus  curiae.   The   directiveprinciples  of State policy in Part IV of  the	Constitutionare superior to fundamental rights and the enactments  whichare  in	 pursuance of the directions given by  Art.  48	 arevalid  and constitutional even though they may infringe	 thefundamental rights of the petitioners.	The total ban on cowslaughter  in the impugned Acts is justified and is  in	 theinterests  of  the general public.  The	 facts	and  figuresgiven  in the official reports are inaccurate, and there  isno  real  shortage  of fodder or  pasture  land.   There  isshortage  of  milk  in the country and it  is  essential  toprotect	 the  cow.  The bullock takes the largest  share  inmeeting	  the	power  requirement  for	  our	agriculturalproduction.   Cow  dung manure contributes about  rupees  63crores per year to our national income.H.J. Umrigar, in reply.Frank Anthony, also replied.6361958.  April 23.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byDAS   C.  J.-These  12	petitions  under  Art.	32  of	 our,Constitution  raise  the  question  of	 the  constitutionalvalidity of three several legislative enactments banning theslaughter of certain animals passed by the States of  Bihar,Uttar	Pradesh	 and  Madhya  Pradesh	respectively.	 Thecontroversy concerning the slaughter of cows has been ragingin  this  country for a number of years and in the  past  itgenerated   considerable  illwill  amongst  the	 two   majorcommunities  resulting even in riots and civil commotion  insome places.  We are, however, happy to note that the  rivalcontentions  of the parties to these proceedings  have	beenurged  before  us without importing into them  the  heat  ofcommunal  passion and in a rational and objective way, as  amatter	involving constitutional issues should be.  Some  ofthese  petitions  come from Bihar, some from U. P.  and	 therest from Madhya Pradesh, but as they raise common questionsof  law, it will be convenient to deal with and	 dispose  ofthem together by one common judgment.Petitions  Nos.	 58  of	 1956, 83 of 1956  and	84  of	1956challenge  the	validity  of  the  Bihar  Preservation	 andImprovement  of	 Animals  Act,	1955  (Bihar  11  of  1956),hereinafter  referred to as the Bihar Act.  In Petition	 No.58 of 1956 there are 5 petitioners, all of whom are  Muslimsbelonging  to  the Quraishi community which is	said  to  benumerous  and  an  important  section  of  Muslims  of	thiscountry.  The members of the community are said to be mainlyengaged	  in   the  butchers'  trade  and   its	  subsidiaryundertakings  such  as	the sale  of  hides,  tannery,	gluemaking, gut making and blooddehydrating, while some of	themare  also engaged in the sale and purchase of cattle and  intheir  distribution over the various areas in the  State  ofBihar as well as in the other States of the Union of  India.Petitioners Nos.  1 and 2 are butchers and meat vendors who,according  to  the petition, only slaughter cattle  and	 notsheep	or   goats   and   are	called	 "   Kasais   "	  incontradistinction to the "'Chicks " who slaughter637only  sheep and goats.	After slaughtering the cattle  thesepetitioners sell the hides to tanners or bide merchants	 whoare  also members of their community and the intestines	 aresold   to  gut	merchants.   It	 is  said  that	 there	 areapproximately  500 other Kasais in Patna alone apart from  2lacs  of  other	 Kasais all over the State  of	Bihar.	 Thecorrectness  of	 these	figures	 is  not  admitted  by	 therespondent  State  but we do not doubt that  the  number  ofKasais is considerable.	 Petitioner No. 3 is the owner of  atanning	 factory  and Petitioner No. 4 is  a  gut  merchant,while  Petitioner  No. 5 is the General Secretary  of  BiharState  Jamiatul Quraish.  In petition No. 83 there  are	 180petitioners  residing  at different places in the  State  ofBihar who are all Muslims whose occupation is that of Kasaisor cattle dealers or exporters of hides.  In Petition No. 84there  are 170 petitioners all residents of  Patna  Districtwho are also Muslims belonging to the Quraishi community andwho  carry on business as Kasais or dealers of cattle.	 Allthe  petitioners  in these three petitions are	citizens  ofIndia.The Bill, which was eventually passed as the Bihar Act,	 waspublished  in  the  Bihar Gazette on April  20,	 1953.	 Thescheme of the Bill, as originally drafted, was, it is  said,to put a total ban only on the slaughter of cows and  calvesof  cows below three years of age.  The Bill was sent  to  aSelect	Committee  and	its  scope  appears  to	 have	beenconsiderably enlarged, as will be seen presently.  The Bill,as eventually passed by the Bihar Legislature, received	 theassent	of  the	 Governor  on December	8,  1.955,  and	 waspublished  in  the  Official Gazette on	 January  11,  1956.Section	 1 of the Act came into force immediately upon	suchpublication,  but before any notification was  issued  undersub-s. (3) of s. 1 bringing the rest of the Act or any	partof it into force in the State or any part of it, the presentpetitions  were filed in this Court challenging the  consti-tutional  validity  of	the Act.   On  applications  for  aninterim order restraining the State of Bihar from issuing  anotification under s. 1(3) of the Act bringing the Act	intooperation   having  been  made	in  these   petitions,	 therespondent State, by and through the learned638Solicitor General of India, gave an undertaking not to issuesuch notification until the disposal of these petitions and,in  the	 premises, no order was considered necessary  to  bemade on those applications.Petition No. 103 of 1956 has been filed by two	petitioners,who are both Muslims residing in Uttar Pradesh and  carryingon business in that State, the first one as a hide  merchantand  the second as a butcher.  Petitioners in  Petition	 No.129 are eight in number all of whom are Muslims residing andcarrying  on  business	in  Uttar  Pradesh  either  as	 gutmerchants  or cattle dealers, or Kasais or beef	 vendors  orbone  dealers  or hide merchants or  cultivators.   All	 thepetitioners in these two applications are citizens of India.By  these  two	petitions  the	petitioners  challenge	 thevalidity  of the Uttar Pradesh Prevention of  Cow  SlaughterAct,  1955 (LT.	 P. 1 of 1956), hereinafter referred  to  asthe U. P. Act and pray for a writ in the nature of  mandamusdirecting the respondent State of Uttar Pradesh not to	takeany steps in pursuance of the U. P. Act or to interfere withthe fundamental rights of the petitioners.Petitions Nos. 117 of 1956, 126 of 1956, 127 of 1956, 128 of1956,  248  of 1956, 144 of 1956 and 145 of 1956  have	beenfiled  by  6,  95,  541, 58, 37,  976  and  395	 petitionersrespectively,  all  of	whom are Muslims  belonging  to	 theQuraishi  Community and are mainly engaged in the  butchers'trade  and its subsidiary undertaking such as the supply  ofhides,	 tannery,   glue  making,   gutmaking	and   blood-dehydrating.  Most of them reside at different places which,at the dates of the filing of these petitions were parts  ofthe  State  of Madhya Pradesh, but which or parts  of  whichhave,  in  the course of the recent re-organisation  of	 theStates,	 been transferred to and amalgamated with the  Stateof  Bombay.  In consequence of such re-organisation  of	 theStates the State of Bombay has had to be substituted for therespondent  State  of  Madhya  Pradesh	in  the	 first	fivepetitions and to be added in the sixth petition, for a	partof the district in which the petitioners resided had been sotransferred, while the State of Madhya Pradesh continues  tobe the respondent in the seventh639petition.By these petitions the petitioners %II of whom arecitizens Of India, challenge the validity of the  C. P.	 andBerar Animal Preservation Act, 1949 (C. P. and Berar Lll  of1949), as subsequently amended.In  order  to  appreciate the  arguments  advanced  for	 andagainst	 the constitutional validity of the  three  impugnedActs  it  will	be  necessary  to  refer  to  the   relevantprovisions  of the Constitution under or pursuant  to  whichthey  have been made.  Reference must first be made to	Art.48  which  will be found in Chapter IV of  the	Constitutionwhich enshrines what are called the directive principles  of)State policy.	Under Art. 37 these directive principles arenot  enforceable  by any court of law but  are	neverthelessfundamental  in the governance of the country and are to  beapplied by the State in making laws. Article 48 runs thus:-Organisation	     48.  The  State  shall   endeavour	  ofagriculture and		  to organise agriculture 'andanimal husbandry.	  animal husbandry oil modern and		     scientific lines and shall, in parti-		     cular, take steps for preserving		     and improving the breeds, and		     prohibiting the slaughter, of cows		     and calves and other milch and		     draught cattle."The principal purpose of this article, according to  learnedcounsel	 for  the petitioners, is to direct  the  ,State  toendeavour  to organise agriculture and animal  husbandry  onmodern	and scientific lines and the rest of the  provisionsof  that  article are ancillary to this	 principal  purpose.They contend that the States are required to take steps	 forpreserving and improving the breeds and for prohibiting	 theslaughter of the animals specified therein only with a	viewto implement that principal purpose, that is to say, only asparts  of the general scheme for organising our	 agricultureand  animal  husbandry	on  modern  and	 scientific   lines.Learned	 counsel for the petitioners refer to  the  marginalnote to Art. 48 in support of their contention on this	partof the case.  They also rely on entry 15640in  List  II of the Seventh Schedule  to  the  Constitution.That entry reads: " Preservation, protection and improvementof  stock  and	prevention of  animal  diseases;  veterinarytraining  and  practice." There is no  separate	 legislativehead for prohibition of slaughter of animals and that  fact,they  claim,  lends  support to their  conclusion  that	 theprohibition  of	 the slaughter of animals specified  in	 thelast  part  of Art. 48 is only ancillary  to  the  principaldirections  for preservation, protection and improvement  ofstock, which is what is meant by organising agriculture	 andanimal	husbandry.  Learned counsel for the respondents	 andPandit Thakurdas Bhargava, who appears as amicus cutriae, onthe  other  hand, maintain that the article  contains  threedistinct and separate directions, each of which should, theyurge,  be  implemented	independently  -and  as	 a  separatecharge.	  It is not necessary for us, on this  occasion,  toexpress a final opinion on this question.  Suffice it to saythat  there  is no conflict between the different  parts  ofthis  article  and  indeed  the	 two  last  directives	 forpreserving and improving the breeds and for the	 prohibitionof  slaughter of certain specified animals represent, as  isindicated  by  the  words " in	particular  ",	two  specialaspects	 of the preceding general directive  for  organisingagriculture  and animal husbandry on modern  and  scientificlines.	Whether the last two directives are ancillary to thefirst  as  contended for by learned counsel  for  the  peti-tioners or are separate and independent items of  directivesas  claimed by counsel on the other side, the directive	 fortaking steps for preventing the slaughter of the animals  isquite  explicit and positive and contemplates a ban  on	 theslaughter  of  the several categories of  animals  specifiedtherein,  namely,  cows and calves and	other  cattle  whichanswer	the  description of milch or  draught  cattle.	 Theprotection recommended by this part of the directive is,  inour  opinion, confined only to cows and calves and to  thoseanimals	 which	are  presently	or  potentially	 capable  ofyielding  milk or of doing work as draught cattle  but	doesnot,  from  the very nature of the purpose for which  it  isobviously recommended, extend to cattle which at641one time were milch or draught cattle but which have  ceasedto  be such.  It is pursuant to these  directive  principlesand in exercise of the powers conferred by Arts. 245 and 246of  the	 Constitution read with entry 15 in List 11  of	 theSeventh	 Schedule thereto that the, Legislatures  of  Bihar,Uttar Pradesh and Madhya, Pradesh have respectively  enactedthe  statutes which are challenged as unconstitutional.	  Inorder  properly, to appreciate the meaning and scope of	 theimpugned  Acts it has to be borne in mind that each  one  ofthose  Acts  is	 a  law	 with  respect	to  "  preservation,protection   and   improvement	of  stock   ",	 and   theirconstitutional	validity  will	have to be  judged  in	thatcontext	  and	against	 that  background.    Keeping	thisconsideration  in  view,  we  proceed  now  to	examine	 therelevant provisions of the three Acts.The  title of the Bihar Act is " An Act to provide  for	 thepreservation and improvement of certain animals in the Stateof  Bihar."  Sub-section  (3) of s.  1	provides  that	thatsection	 shall	come into force at once	 and  the  remainingprovisions  of the Act or any of them shall come into  forceon  such date as the State Government may, by  notification,appoint	 and  that  different dates  may  be  appointed	 fordifferent provisions and for different areas.  Section 2  isthe definition section and the following definitions are  tobe noted:(a)  " Animal " means-(i)bull,  bullock, cow, heifer, buffalo, calf,	sheep,	goatand-any other ruminating animal;(ii) poultry; and(iii)	  elephant, horse, camel, ass, mule, dog, swine	 andsuch other domesticated animals as may be specified in	thisbehalf	by  the	 State Government  by  notification  in	 theOfficial Gazette;(b)............................................................(c)  "	bull  " means an uncastrated male above the  age  ofthree years belonging to the species of bovine cattle ;(d)  "	bullock	 " means a castrated male above the  age  ofthree  years  belonging to the species specified  in  clause(e)" calf " means a female or a castrated or642uncastrated  male,  of	the age of  three  years  and  belowbelonging to the species specified in clause (c);(f).........................................................(g)  "	cow " means a female above the age  of	three  yearsbelonging to the species specified in clause (e) ;Section	 3, which is the principal section for the  purposesof the Bihar Petitions, runs as follows:" 3. Prohibition of slaughter of cow, calf, bull or bullock.Notwithstanding	 anything contained in any law for the	timebeing in force or in any usage or custom to the contrary, noperson shall slaughter a cow, the calf of a cow, a bull or abullock; Provided that the State Government may, by  generalor  special order and subject to such conditions as  it	 maythink fit to impose, allow the slaughter of any such  animalfor any medicinal or research purposes."Section	 4  provides  for  penalties  for  contravention  orattempted contravention or abetment of contravention of	 anyof  the provisions of s. 3. The remaining provision; in	 thefollowing  three chapters are not material for	our  presentpurpose.   It  will be noticed that the words "	 bull  ",  "bullock	 ",  " calf " and " cow" have been defined  in	cls.(c), (d), (e) and (g) of s. 2 as belonging to the species ofbovine cattle.	The expression " species of  bovine cattle "is  wide  enough to in-elude and does in  ordinary  parlanceinclude	 buffaloes,(male,  or  female  adults  or   calves).Therefore,   the  corresponding	 categories  of	  buffaloes,namely, buffalo bulls, buffalo bullocks, buffalo calves	 andshe-buffaloes must be taken as included in the four  definedcategories  of	the  species of bovine cattle  and  as	suchwithin	the prohibition embodied in s. 3 of the Act.  It  isto be, noted, however, that the allegations in the petitionsand  the affidavits in opposition proceed on the  assumptionthat  buffaloes (male or female adults or calves)  were	 notwithin	the protection of the section and, indeed, when	 theattention  of learned counsel for the petitioners was  drawnto the reference to the " species of bovine cattle " in eachof the four definitions, they643still  made  an	 attempt  to  support  the  latter  view  bysuggesting that if buffaloes were to be included within	 thewords defined in cls. (c), (d), (e) and (g), then there	 wasno necessity for specifying it separately in the  definitionof " animal " in el. (a).  This argument does not appear  tous  to be sound at all, for, then, on a parity of  reasoningit was wholly unnecessary to specify	heifer	 "  in	 thedefinition of " animal ". If heifer	is    not   to	  beincluded in the definition of cow "	because heifer "  isseparately enumerated in 'the definition of animal " then anastounding  result will follow, namely, that  the  operativepart  of s. 3 will not prohibit the slaughter of " heifer  "at all-a result which obviously could not possibly have beenintended.   The	 obvious reason for the enumeration  of	 thedifferent  categories  of  animals in the  definition  of  "animal " must have been to provide a word of wide import  sothat  all those sections where the wider word " animal "  isused  may apply to the different kinds of animals  included-within that term.  If the intention of the Bihar legislaturewas  to exclude buffaloes (male or female adults or  calves)from the protection of s. 3 then it must be said that it hasfailed to fulfil its intention.The  U.	 P.  Act  is intituled "  An  Act  to  prohibit	 theslaughter  of  COW and its progeny in  Uttar  Pradesh."	 Thepreamble to the Act recites the expediency " to prohibit andprevent	 the  slaughter	 of cow and  its  progeny  in  UttarPradesh".   Although  the 17.  P. Act has  been	 made  underentry  15  in  List  11	 and  presumably  pursuant  to	 thedirectives contained in Art. 48 nowhere in the Act is  thereany  express  reference	 whatever  to  the  "  preservation,protection  or	improvement of stock." Section 2  defines  "beef " as meaning the flesh of cow but does not include	 theflesh of cow contained in sealed containers and imported  assuch in Uttar Pradesh.	Clause (b) is very important, for itdefines	 "  cow " as including a bull, bullock,	 heifer,  orcalf.  Section 3, which is the operative section runs thus:3. Notwithstanding anything contained in any82644other law for the time being in force or any usage or customto  the contrary, no person shall slaughter or cause  to  beslaughtered  or offer or cause to be offered  for  slaughterany cow in any place in Uttar Pradesh."Two exceptions are made by s. 4 in respect of cows sufferingfrom contagious or infectious disease or which is  subjectedto  experimentation  in the interest of	 medical  or  publichealth research.  Section 5 prohibits the sale or  transportof  beef or beef products in any form except  for  medicinalpurposes  and  subject to' the provisions of  the  exceptiontherein	 mentioned.   Section 6, on which  counsel  for	 theState  relies, provides for the establishment, by the  StateGovernment or by any local authority wherever so directed bythe  State Government, of institutions as may  be  necessaryfor  taking care of uneconomic cows.  Under s. 7  the  StateGovernment  may	 levy  such  charges  or  fees,	 as  may  beprescribed for keeping uneconomic cows in the  institutions.Section	 8 provides for punishment for contravention of	 theprovisions  of ss. 3, 4 and 5. Section 9 makes the  offencescreated by the Act cognisable and non-bailable.	 Section  10gives  power to the State Government to make rules  for	 thepurpose	 of carrying into effect the provisions of the	Act.It should be noted that the U. P. Act protects the " cow  ",which,	according  to the definition, includes	only  bulls,bullocks,  heifer and calves.  There is no reference to	 thespecies of bovine cattle and, therefore, the buffaloes (maleor  female  adults  or calves) are  completely	outside	 theprotection of this Act.The  C. P. and Berar Act of 1949 was originally intituled  "An  Act	 to provide for preservation of certain	 animals  bycontrolling the slaughter thereof," and the preamble recitedthat  it was " expedient to provide for the preservation  ofcertain	 animals  by  controlling  the	slaughter  thereof.",Animal " was defined in s. 2 as meaning an animal specifiedin  the	 schedule.   The schedule  specified  the  followingcategories of animals, namely, (1) bulls, (2) bullocks,	 (3)cows,  (4)  calves, (5) male and female	 buffaloes  and	 (6)buffalo	  calves.   Section  4	originally  prohibited	 theslaughter645of  an	" animal " without certificate.	 There was  then  nototal  ban  on the slaughter of any animal as  defined.	 ,In1951, the C. P. and Berar Animal Preservation Act, 1949, wasamended	 by the Madhya Pradesh Act XXIII of 1951.   By	thisamending Act the words, " by prohibiting or " were added  tothe   long  title  and	the  preamble  before  the  word   "controlling " and a new clause was added to s. 2 as el.	 (i)(a) defining " cow " as including a female calf of a cow andsub-s. 1 of s. 4 was amended so as to read as follows:"(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law forthe. time being in force or in any usage to the contrary, noperson-(a)  shall slaughter a cow; or(b)  shall slaughter any other animal unless he has obtainedin  respect  of such other animal a certificate	 in  writingsigned by the executive authority and the veterinary officerfor  the area in which the animal is to be slaughtered	thatthe animal is fit for slaughter."Thus  a total ban was imposed on the slaughter of  cows	 andfemale	calf  of  a cow and the male calf of  a	 cow,  bull,bullock,  buffalo  (male or female adult or calf)  could  beslaughtered on obtaining a certificate.	 The Act was furtheramended	 in  1956  by Act X of	1956  substituting  for	 theamended definition of " cow " introduced by the amending Actof 1951 as cl. (1)(a) of s. 2 of the C. P. and Berar  AnimalPreservation  Act,  1949,  a new definition of "  cow  "  asincluding  a male or female calf of a cow, bull, bullock  orheifer and a new schedule specifying only (1) cows, (2) maleand female buffaloes and (3) buffalo calves was	 substitutedfor  the  original  schedule to the Act.   Shortly  put	 theposition in Madhya Pradesh has been this: while under the C.P. and Berar Animal Preservation Act, 1949, as it originallystood, the slaughter of all categories of animals  mentionedin  the	 original  schedule  were  only	 controlled  by	 therequirement of a certificate from the appropriate  authoritybefore	the actual slaughter, by the amending Act  XXIII  of1951,  a total ban was imposed on the slaughter of " cows  "which was then defined as including only a female calf of a646cow  and  the slaughter of all other categories	 of  animalscoming	within	the  original schedule	was  controlled	 andfinally	 after	the amending Act X of 1956, there is  now  atotal  ban  on the slaughter of " cows " which	by  the	 newdefinition  includes a male or female calf of a	 cow,  bull,bullock or heifer so that the male and female buffaloes	 andbuffalo	 calves (male and female) can still  be	 slaughteredbut   on  certificate  issued  by  the	proper	 authoritiesmentioned  in  the Act.	 The Madhya Pradesh Act X  of  1956,amending  the C. P. and Berar Animal peservation Act,  1949,received the assent of the Governor on May 18, 1956.  The C.P. and Berar Animal Preservation Act, 1949, as amended up to1956, is hereinafter referred to as the Madhya Pradesh Act.'To  sum	 up, under the Bihar Act there is in  the  State  ofBihar a total ban on slaughter of all categories of  animalsof the species of bovine cattle.  In Uttar Pradesh there is,under the If.  P. Act, a total ban on the slaughter of	cowsand  her  progeny which include bulls, bullocks,  heifer  orcalves.	 The buffaloes (male or female adults or calves) arecompletely  outside  the  protection of	 the  Act.   In	 thepresent	 Madhya	 Pradesh and the  districts  which  formerlyformed	 part  of  Madhya  Pradesh  but	 have	since	beentransferred  to	 the State of Bombay and  where	 the  MadhyaPradesh law including the Madhya Pradesh Act still  applies,there is a total ban on the slaughter of cow, male or femalecalves	of  a  cow,  bulls, bullocks,  or  heifers  and	 theslaughter of buffaloes (male or female adults or calves) arecontrolled  in	that  their  slaughter	is  permitted  undercertificate  granted by the proper authorities mentioned  inthe  Act.  No exception has been made in any of these  threeActs  permitting  slaughter  of cattle even  for  bona	fidereligious purposes such as has been made, say, in the BombayAnimal Preservation Act, 1948 (Bom.  LXXXI of 1948).As  already  stated  the petitioners, who  are	citizens  ofIndia,	and  Muslims  by  religion,  mostly  belong  to	 theQuraishi   community  and  are	generally  engaged  in	 thebutchers'  trade  and its subsidiary  undertakings  such  assupply of hides, tannery, glue making, gut making647and  blood  de-hydrating, Those, who carry on  the  butcherstrade,	are  mostly.  Kasais who, the petitioners  say	killonly  cattle but not ship or goat which are  slaughtered  byother  persons known as Chicks.	 Learned  counsel  appearingfor  the petitioners challenge the, constitutional  validityof  the	 Acts  respectively  applicable	 to  them  on  threegrounds,  namely,  that they offend the	 fundamental  rightsguaranteed  to them by Arts. 14 ' 19(1)(g) and 25.   Learnedcounsel appearing for the respondent States, of course, seekto support their respective enactments by controverting	 thereasons	 advanced  by learned counsel for  the	petitioners.Bharat Go-Sevak Samaj, All India AntiCow-Slaughter  MovementCommittee,  Sarvadeshik	 Arya  pratinidhi Sabha	 and  M.  P.Gorakshan  Sangh put in petitions for leave to intervene  inthese proceedings.  Under Order XLI, rule 2, of' the SupremeCourt Rules intervention is permitted only to the  Attorney-General	 of India or the Advocates General for	the  States.There  is no other express provision for permitting a  thirdparty to intervene in the proceedings before this Court.  Inpractice,  however, this Court, in exercise of its  inherentpowers,	 allows a third party to intervene when	 such  thirdparty is a party to some proceedings in this Court or in theHigh  Courts  where the same, or similar  questions  are  inissue, for the decision of this Court will conclude the caseof  that  party.  In the present case,	however,  the  peti-tioners for intervention are not parties to any	 proceedingsand  we	 did not think it right to permit them	formally  tointervene   in	these  proceedings;  but  in  view  of	 theimportance of the questions involved in these proceedings wehave heard Pandit Thakurdas Bhargava, who was instructed  byone of these petitioners for intervention, as amicus curiae.We are deeply indebted to all learned counsel appealing	 forthe  parties  and  to  Pandit  Thakurdas  Bhargava  for	 thevaluable assistance they have given us.Before	we  actually  take tip and  deal  with	the  allegedinfraction  of	the petitioners' fundamental rights,  it  isnecessary  to  dispose of a preliminary question  raised  byPandit Thakurdas Bhargava.  It will be recalled648that the impugned Acts were made by the States in  dischargeof  the obligations laid on them by Art. 48 to endeavour  toorganise agriculture and animal husbandry and in  particularto  take steps for preserving and improving the	 breeds	 andprohibiting  the  slaughter of	certain	 specified  animals.These directive principles, it is true, are not	 enforceableby any court of law but nevertheless they are fundamental inthe  governance	 of the country and it is the  duty  of	 theState  to give effect to them.	These laws having thus	beenmade in discharge of that fundamental obligation imposed  onthe State, the fundamental rights conferred on the  citizensand  others  by	 Chapter III of	 the  Constitution  must  beregarded  as  subordinate  to  these  laws.   The  directiveprinciples, says learned counsel, are equally, if not  more,fundamental and must prevail.  We are unable to accept	thisargunent  as sound.  Article 13(2) expressly says  that	 theState  shall not make any law which takes away	or  abridgesthe  rights  conferred by Chapter III  of  our	Constitutionwhich  enshrines  the  fundamental  rights.   The  directiveprinciples  cannot  over-ride this  categorical	 restrictionimposed on the legislative power of the State.	A harmoniousinterpretation has to be placed upon the Constitution and sointerpreted  it	 means	that  the  State  should   certainlyimplement the directive principles but it must do so in sucha  way	that  its  laws do not	take  away  or	abridge	 thefundamental rights, for otherwise the protecting  provisionsof  Chapter  III will be " a mere rope of sand	".  As	thisCourt  has  said in the State of Madras v.  Smt.   ChampakamDorairajan  (1) , "The directive principles of State  policyhave  to conform to and run as subsidiary to the Chapter  onFundamental Rights".Coming	now  to the arguments as to the violation of  4	 thepetitioners'  fundamental rights, it will be  convenient  totake  up  first the complaint founded on Art.  25(1).	Thatarticle runs as follows:"  Subject to public order, morality and health and  to	 theother  provisions  of  this Part, all  persons	are  equallyentitled  to freedom of conscience and the right  freely  toprofess, practise and propagate religion".(1)  [1951] S.C.R. 525 531-649After referring to the provisions of el. (2) which lays downcertain	 exceptions which are not material for	our  presentpurpose	 this Court has, in Ratilal Panachand Gandhi v.	 TheState of Bombay (1) explained the meaning and scope of	thisarticle thus:"  Thus,  subject  to the restrictions	which  this  articleimposes,  every	 person has a fundamental  right  under	 ourConstitution  not merely to entertain such religious  beliefas may be approved of by his judgment	or conscience but toexhibit hisbelief and ideas in such  overt acts	 as  areenjoinedor  sanctioned	by  his religion  and  further	topropagatehis religious views for the edification of others.Itis immaterial also  whether the propagation is made  bya  person  in his individual capacity or on  behalf  of	 anychurch	or  institution.  The free exercise of	religion  bywhich is meant the performance of outward acts in  pursuanceof  relgious belief, is, as stated above, subject  to  Stateregulation imposed to secure order, public health and moralsof the people.	"What then, we inquire, are the materials placed before us tosubstantiate  the  claim  that the sacrifice  of  a  cow  isenjoined  or sanctioned by Islam ? The materials  before  usare  extremely meagre and it is surprising that on a  matterof  this description the allegations in the petition  shouldbe  so vague.  In the Bihar Petition No. 58 of 1956 are	 setout the following bald allegations:That  the petitioners further respectfully submit  that	 thesaid  impugned section also violates the fundamental  rightsof  the	 petitioners  guaranteed tinder Article	 25  of	 theConstitution in-as-much as on the occasion of their Bakr  IdDay,  it  is  the religious  practice  of  the	petitioners'community to sacrifice a cow on the said occasion.  The poormembers of the community usually sacrifice one cow for every7 members whereas it would require one sheep or one goat foreach  member which would entail considerably  more  expense.As a result of the total ban imposed by the impugned sectionthe  petitioners would not even be allowed to make the	saidsacrifice which is a practice(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 1055, 1062-1063.650and  custom  in their religion, enjoined upon them  by	'theHoly   Quran,  and  practised  by  all	Muslims	 from	timeimmemorial and recognised as such in India.  "The  allegations in the other petitions are similar.  ,Theseare  met  by  an  equally bald denial in  para.	 21  of	 theaffidavit in opposition.  No affidavit has been filed by anyperson specially competent to expound the relevant tenets ofIslam.	 'No  reference	 'is made in  the  petition  to	 anyparticular Surah of the Holy Quran which, in terms, requiresthe  sacrifice	of  a cow.  All that was  placed  before  usduring	the argument were Surah XXII, Verses 28 and 33,	 andSurah  XXII,.	What the Holy book enjoins  is	that  peopleshould	pray unto the Lord and make sacrifice.	We  have  noaffidavit   before   us	 by  any  Maulana   explaining	 theimplications  of those Verses or throwing any light on	thisproblem.   We,	however,  find it laid	down  in  Hamilton'stranslation  of Hedaya Book XLIII at p. 592 that it  is	 theduty  of  every	 free  Mussulman,  arrived  at	the  age  ofmaturity, to offer a sacrifice on the Yd Kirban, or festivalof the sacrifice, provided he be then possessed of Nisab andbe  not	 a  traveller.	The sacrifice  established  for	 oneperson is a goat and that for seven a cow or a camel.  It istherefore, optional for a Muslim to sacrifice a goat for oneperson	or a cow or a camel for seven persons.	It does	 notappear to be obligatory that a person must sacrifice a	cow.The  very  fact	 of an option seems to run  counter  to	 thenotion	of an obligatory duty.	It is, however, pointed	 outthat  a	 person	 with six other members of  his	 family	 mayafford	to sacrifice a cow but may not be able to afford  tosacrifice  seven  goats.   So  there  may  be  an   economiccompulsion although there is no religious compulsion.  It isalso  pointed  out  that from  time  immemorial	 the  IndianMussalmans have been sacrificing cows and this practice,  ifnot enjoined, is certainly sanctioned by, their religion andit  amounts to their practice of religion protected by	Art.25.  While the petitioners claim that the sacrifice of a cowis essential, the State denies the obligatory nature of	 thereligious   practice.	 The   fact,   emphasised   by	 therespondents, cannot be			651disputed,  namely, that many Mussalmans do not	sacrifice  acow on the Bakr Id Day.	 It is part of the known history  ofIndia  that  the  Moghul Emperor Babar	saw  the  wisdom  ofprohibiting the slaughter of cows as and by way of religioussacrifice  and	directed  his son  Humayun  to	follow	thisexample.   Similarly  Emperors Akbar,  Jehangir,  and  AhmadShah, it is said, prohibited cow slaughter.  Nawab Hyder Aliof Mysore made cow slaughter an offence punishable with	 thecutting of the hands of the offenders.	Three of the  memberof  the Gosamvardhan Enquiry Committee set up by  the  UttarPradesh Government in 1953 were Muslims and concurred in theunanimous recommendation for total ban on slaughter of cows.We have, however, no material on the record before us  whichwill  enable us to say, in the face of the foregoing  facts,that  the  sacrifice of a cow on that day is  an  obligatoryovert  act for a Mussalman to exhibit his  religious  beliefand  idea.   In the premises, it is not possible for  us  touphold this claim of the petitioners.The  next  complaint  is against the  denial  of  the  equalprotection   of	 the  law.   It	 is  thus  formulated:	 Thepetitioners are Muslims by religion and butchers (Kasais) byoccupation and they carry on the trade of selling beef.	 Theimpugned  Acts prejudicially affect only the  Muslim  Kasaiswho kill cattle but not others who kill goats and sheep	 andwho  sell goats' meat and mutton.  It is,  therefore,  clearthat  only the Muslim Kasais, who slaughter only cattle	 butnot  sheep or goats, have been singled out for	hostile	 anddiscriminatory	treatment.  Their further grievance is	thatthe U. P. Act makes a distinction even between butchers	 whokill  cattle and butchers who kill buffaloes and the  MadhyaPradesh	 Act  also  makes  a  like  discrimination  in	thatslaughter   of	buffaloes  is  permitted,   although   undercertificate,  while slaughter of cows, bulls,  bullocks	 andcalves	 are  totally  prohibited.   In	 the  premises	 thepetitioners   contend  that  the  law  which  permits	suchdiscrimination	must  be  struck down as  violative  of	 thesalutary provisions of Art. 14 of the Constitution.83652The meaning, scope and effect of Art. 14, which is the equalprotection clause in our Constitution, has been explained bythis Court in a series of decisions in cases beginning	withChiranjitlal Choudhury v. The Union of India (1) and  endingwith the recent case of Ram Krishna Dalmia and others v. SriJustice S. R.Tendolkar (2).  It is now well established thatwhile  Art. 14 forbids class legislation it does not  forbidreasonable  classification for the purposes  of	 legislationand  that in order to pass the test of	permissible  classi-fication  two conditions must be fulfilled, namely, (i)	 theclassification	 must	be  founded   on   an	intelligibledifferentia  which distinguishes persons or things that	 aregrouped together from others left out of the group and	(ii)such differentia must have a rational relation to the objectsought	to  be	achieved by the statute	 in  question.	 Theclassification,	 it  has  been	held,  may  be	founded	  ondifferent  bases,  namely,  geographical,  or  according  toobjects or occupations or the like and what is necessary  isthat   there  must  be	a  nexus  between  the	 basis	 of'classification	 and   the   object   of   the	 Act   underconsideration.	 The  pronouncements of this  Court  furtherestablish,  amongst  other things, that there  is  always  apresumption  in	 favour	 of  the  constitutionality  of	  anenactment  and that the burden is upon him, who attacks	 it,to  show  that	there  has been a  clear  violation  of	 theconstitutional principles.  The courts, it is accepted, mustpresume	 that  the  legislature	 understands  and  correctlyappreciates  the needs of its own people, that its laws	 aredirected  to problems made manifest by experience  and	thatits discriminations are based on adequate grounds.  It	mustbe  borne in mind that the legislature is free to  recognisedegrees	 of harm and may confine its restrictions  to  thosecases  where  the  need is deemed to  be  the  clearest	 andfinally	 that  in  order  to  sustain  the  presumption	  ofconstitutionality  the	Court may  take	 into  considerationmatters	 of common knowledge, matters of common report,	 thehistory	 of  the times and may assume every state  of  factswhich can be conceived existing at the time of	legislation.We, therefore, proceed to examine(1) [1950] S.C.R. 869.		(2) [1959] S.C.R. 279.653the  impugned  Acts  in the light  of  the  principles	thusenunciated by this Court.The impugned Acts, it may be recalled, have been made by theStates	in discharge of the obligations imposed on  them  byArt. 48.  In order to implement the directive principles therespective   Legislatures  enacted  the	 impugned  Acts	  inexercise  of the powers conferred on them by Art.  246	readwith  entry 15 in List II of the Seventh Schedule.   It	 is,therefore,  quite  clear  that	the  objects  sought  to  beachieved   by  the  impugned  Acts  are	 the   preservation,protection  and	 improvement of	 livestocks.   Cows,  bulls,bullocks and calves of cows are no doubt the most  importantcattle for the agricultural economy of this country.  Femalebuffaloes yield a large quantity of milk and are, therefore,well looked after and do not need as much protection as cowsyielding  a  small  quantity of milk  require.	 As  draughtcattle	male buffaloes are not half as useful  as  bullocks.Sheep  and goat give very little milk compared to  the	cowsand the female buffaloes and have practically no utility  asdraught	 animals.   These different  categories	 of  animalsbeing susceptible of classification into separate groups  onthe  basis of their usefulness to society, the butchers	 whokill  each category may also be placed in  distinct  classesaccording to the effect produced on society by the  carryingon  of their respective occupations.  Indeed  the  butchers,who  kill  cattle,  according  to  the	allegations  of	 thepetitioners themselves in their respective petitions, form awell   defined	class  based  on  their	 occupation.	Thatclassification is based on an intelligible differentia whichplaces	them in a well defined class and distinguishes	themfrom those who kill goats and sheep and this differentia hasa close connection with the object sought to be achieved  bythe  impugned Act, namely, the preservation, protection	 andimprovement  of	 our  livestock.  The  attainment  of  theseobjectives  may	 well necessitate that the  slaughterers  ofcattle	should	be  dealt with	more  stringently  than	 theslaughterers  of, say, goats and sheep.	 The impugned  Acts,therefore,  have  adopted  a  classification  on  sound	 andintelligible basis and can quite clearly stand the test laiddown in654the decisions of this Court.  Whatever objections there	 maybe against the validity of the impugned Acts the -denial  ofequal  protection of the laws does not, prima facie,  appearto  us to be one of them.  In any case, bearing in mind	 thepresumption of constitutionality attaching to all enactmentsfounded on the recognition by the court of the fact that thelegislature  correctly	appreciates  the needs	of  its	 ownpeople	there  appears to be no escape from  the  conclusionthat  the petitioners have not discharged the onus that	 wason  them and the challenge under Art. 14 cannot,  therefore,prevail.Learned	 counsel for the petitioners then take	their  finalstand on Art. 19(1)(g).	 Immediately learned counsel for therespondents counter the charge by saying that Art.  19(1)(g)can hit only the law which purports to directly violate	 itsprovisions.   The impugned Acts, we are reminded, have	beenmade in implementation of the directive principles laid downin Art. 48 and are laws with respect to matters set forth inentry  15  of  List II and it is emphasised  that  the	solepurpose	 of these enactments is to secure the  preservation,protection and improvement of stock and that its real aim isnot  to take away or abridge the rights guaranteed  by	Art.19(1)(g).   If at all, these enactments may only  indirectlyand incidentally affect those, rights but that	circumstancecannot	alter  their real nature and purpose.	Reliance  isplaced	in  support  of this  contention  on  the  followingobservations  of Kania C. J. in A. K. Gopalan v.  The  State(1)." If there is a legislation directly attempting to control acitizen's  freedom of speech or expression, or his right  toassemble  peaceably  and without aims,	etc.,  the  questionwhether	 that  legislation is saved by the  relevant  savingclause	of  article'  19  will	arise.	 If,  however,	 thelegislation  is	 not  directly in respect of  any  of  thesesubjects,  but	as  a  result  of  the	operation  of  otherlegislation,  for  instance,  for  punitive  or	  preventivedetention,  his	 right	under any of  these  sub-clauses  isabridged, the question of the application of article 19 doesnot  arise.   The  true approach is  only  to  consider	 thedirectness of the legislation and not what will(1)  [1950] S.C.R. 88, 101.655be the result of the detention otherwise valid, on the	modeof the detenue's life.	"This  part  of	the  argument  advanced	 on  behalf  of	 therespondents  is further sought to be reinforced by the	factthat the above observations of Kania C. J. had	subsequentlybeen adopted by this Court in Ram Singh v.The State of Delhi(1).  Those observations of Kania C.	J.  should,  in	 ouropinion, be read in the context of the facts of those cases.It  should be remembered that both these cases arose out  oforders	made  under  the  Preventive  Detention	 Act,  1950.Article	 22,  which  is to be found in Chapter	III  of	 theConstitution,	recognises  the	 necessity  for	  preventivedetention, however odious it may be.  The purpose of the Actunder  which  the detention orders had been  made  in  thosecases,	was to prevent the persons concerned from acting  inany  manner prejudicial to one or other of the three  impor-tant matters specified therein.	 The effect of the executionof the orders was to deprive those persons of their  libertyaccording  to  procedure  established  by  law.	  Preventivedetention,  like punitive detention, having taken  away	 thepersonal  liberty of those persons they could not claim	 therights under Art. 19(1)(a) to (e) and (g) for those were therights of free men.  It was, therefore, considered that	 theprimary	 and direct object of the Preventive Detention	Act,1950, being, inter alia, to secure the security of the Stateand  maintenance  of  law  and	order,	its  impact  on	 thefundamental  rights  was indirect and,	therefore,  the	 Actcould not be challenged for breach of the fundamental rightsunder  Art. 19(1).  The position in the cases now before  usis  quite  different.	The  last  part	 of  the   directiveprinciples  embodied  in Art. 48 require the State  to	takesteps for prohibiting the slaughter of the specified animalsand  this directive can only be carried out  by	 prohibitingthe  petitioners and other butchers (Kasais)  from.  slaugh-tering	them.  There can be no mistake about the  directnessof  these legislations vis-a-vis the petitioners  and  otherbutchers  and  the  effect of these  legislations  on  theirrights	is  direct  and instantaneous as soon  as  they	 arebrought into force.  The title of the U. P. Act(1)  [1951]1 S.C.R. 451, 456-457.656does  not  even	 attempt to conceal the	 directness  of	 itsimpact	on the butchers of Uttar Pradesh.  The	argument  oflearned counsel for the respondents on this point cannot  beaccepted  and the question of the alleged violation of	Art.19(1)(g) has to be dealt with on merits.The  complaint of the petitioners under Art. 19 (1)  (g)  isthat  the  impugned Acts, if enforced, will compel  them  atonce  to  close	 down their business and  will,	 in  effect,amount	to  a complete denial of their right  to  carry	 oiltheir  occupation,  trade  or  business	 in  spite  of	 themandatory  provisions  of Art. 19(1)(g).  The  objection  iselaborated  thus:  The	livelihood of a	 butcher  of  cattledepends	 on the existence of many factors.  First he has  topurchase the cattle which he will slaughter.  The statisticswill show that a large number of cattle are slaughtered	 forfood  every  year.  According to Table 11 on p.	 24  of	 theReport	on the Marketing of Cattle in India 18,93,000  headsof  cattle  and 6,09,000 buffaloes were slaughtered  in	 theyear 1948.  Taking that 7 goats are the equivalent in  fleshof   cow or buffalo these butchers who	slaughter  25,02,000bovine cattle will have to find 7 times that number of goatsor sheep, that is to say, they will have to have 1,75,14,000extra  goats  and sheep per year. This it is  said,  is	 notavailable  in -India.  Then the butchers will have  to	findbuyers	for this enormous quantity of goats' meat or  muttonthe  price of which, according to the figures given at	p.12of the Expert Committee'.-, Report, is very much higher thanthat  of  beef.	  Poorer  people  may  afford  to  buy	beefoccasionally but goat-,' meat or mutton will be beyond theirreach  and consequently there will not be a market for	saleof the meat of so many goats and sheep and the butchers willhave to reduce the number of goats and sheep for purposes ofslaughter and that will reduce their income to a  negligiblefigure.	  Further,  what will they do with the skins  of  somany goats, and sheep ? They will not have ready sale in themarket	as hides of cows and buffaloes have, for the  latterare  used  in the manufacture of boots, shoes,	suit  cases,belts  and other leather goods while the skins of goats	 andsheep will be useless657for such purpose.  The same considerations will apply to theguts.	There is, therefore, no escape, say learned  counselfor  the petitioners from the inevitable conclusion  that  atotal  ban on the slaughter of all animals belonging to	 thespecies	  of  bovine  cattle  will  bring  about   a   totalprohibition  of the business and occupation of the  butchers(Kasais).   Clause  (6) of Art. 19, no doubt,  protects	 theoperation of the existing laws in so far as they impose	 anddo  not prevent the State from making any law  imposing,  inthe interest of the general public, reasonable	restrictionson  the	 exercise of the right conferred by  Art.  19(1)(g).But   restrictions,  they  say,	 cannot	 extend	  to   totalprohibition and reference is made to the observations to  befound  in  some	 of  the  decisions  of	 this  Court.	 Thecontention  is	that  the  State  may  regulate	 but  cannotannihilate  a business which a citizen has a right to  carryon.The  rival  contention is thus	formulated:  The  dictionarymeaning of the word " butcher " is " slaughterer of  animalsfor  food,  dealer in meat".  It is one of the	three  well-known  occupations  included  in the homely  phrase,  "	 thebutcher, the baker, the candlestick maker".  The  expression"  butcher ", as popularly understood now, has no  referenceto any particular animal.  The term is now applicable to anyperson	who slaughters any animal for food.  Taken  in	thislarger	sense,	the facts alleged in the petitions  do	not,according  to learned counsel for the respondents,  indicatethat  any of the impugned Acts has the effect of  completelystopping   the	petitioners'  businesses.   They   seek	  toillustrate  their point thus: Take the case  of	 piece-goodsmerchants.   Some may deal in country made  piece-goods	 andothers may import and sell piece-goods manufactured, say, inEngland	 or  Japan.  Some may deal in dhotis and  saris	 andothers may confine their activities to the purchase and saleof long cloth or other varieties of piece-goods.  They	are,however, all piece-goods merchants.  Suppose in the interestof  our indigenous textile industry and to protect the	bestinterests of the general public it becomes necessary to stopthe import of foreign cloth altogether.	 Such stoppage	willnot prevent any cloth658merchant  from	carrying on his trade or business  as  clothmerchant,  for	he can still deal in  cloth  and  piecegoodsmanufactured in India.	Will any piece-goods merchant, whosebusiness was only to import foreign piece-goods for sale  inIndia,	be heard to complain that the stoppage of import  offoreign cloth has completely prevented him from carrying  onbusiness  as  a piece goods merchant  and,  therefore,	suchstoppage  of import of foreign cloth being more than a	mererestriction  violates  his  fundamental	 right	under	Art.19(1)(g)  ?  Where, they ask, will the argument	 lead  us  ?Suppose that the import of one particular variety of  piece-goods,	say saris, is stopped but import of dhotis  and	 allother varieties of piece-goods are allowed.  On a  reasoningat par with that urged in the last case should not a  dealerwho  imports only that variety of piece-goods the import  ofwhich has been stopped be entitled to say that his  businesshas  been  completely  stopped ? Suppose the  State  in	 theinterest  of Khadi and cottage industries imposes a  ban  onthe manufacture or sale of cloth of a very fine count,	willa  merchant who deals only in fine cloth be entitled to	 saythat as he deals only in fine cloth, the ban has  completelyprohibited  the carrying on of his business ? The  truth  ofthe  matter, they submit, is that the ban on the  import  offoreign	 cloth or on the manufacture of cloth of  very	finecount  is  only	 a restriction imposed	on  the	 piece-goodsbusiness, for the ban affects one or more of the segments ofthat  business	but  leaves the	 other	segments  untouched.There is, therefore, only some restriction imposed on piece-goods merchants in that they cannot deal in certain kinds ofpiece-goods, but they are not wholly prevented from carryingon  piece-goods	 business.  The position, they say,  is	 thesame  in  the  case of	butchers  (Kasais).   The  butchers'business, they point out, has several segments and a ban  onone segment may be complete prohibition of the activities ofthat  segment,	for  restriction is complete as	 far  as  itextends, but in the larger context of the butchers' businesssuch  a	 ban, they submit, operates only as  a	restriction.Far  less, it is said can a dealer in hides,  complain	thatthe ban659imposed on the slaughter of cattle and buffaloes prevent himfrom,  carrying on his, business as a hide merchant, for  hecall  still carry on his business in ,fallen hides.   Indeedthe statistics collected in the Report of Marketing of Hidesin  India, Second Edition, p.9, show that the percentage  offallen	hides to the total cattle population is 8.8  whereasthe  percentage	 of slaughtered hides to  the  total  cattlepopulation is1.4. The.  same	 argument has been  advanced  regarding	 gutmerchants and other dealers in subsidiary things.It is not necessary for us to dilate upon or to express	 anyopinion	  on   the  rival  contentions	as   abstract	pro.positions  .  The matter has to be dealt  with	objectively.What  do  the Acts actually provide ? In Uttar	Pradesh	 thepetitioners  can freely slaughter buffaloes (male or  femaleadults or calves) and sell their meat for food.	 It is	alsoopen to them to slaughter goats and sheep and sell the meat.Therefore,  so	far  as the butchers of	 Uttar	Pradesh	 areconcerned, there A,, obviously no total prohibition of theiroccupation  but only some restrictions have been imposed  onthem in respect of one part of their occupation, namely, theslaughter of cows, bulls, bullocks, and calves of cows.	  InMadhya	Pradesh	 the Act, it is true,  totally	forbids	 theslaughter  of  cows including bulls, bullocks and  cows	 butpermits the slaughter of buffaloes (male or female adults orcalves)	 under	certain conditions.   Therefore,  in  Madhya[Pradesh  also	there  is no  law  totally  prohibiting	 thecarrying  on of the business of a butcher.  In	Bihar  thereis,  no	 doubt,	 a total ban against the  slaughter  of	 allanimals	 belonging  to the, species of bovine  cattle  whichincludes buffaloes (male or female adults or calves) but  itis  still  possible for the butchers of Bihar  to  slaughtergoats  and sheep and sell goats' meat and mutton  for  food.As will be -seen hereafter the total ban on the slaughter ofbulls, bullocks, buffaloes (male or female adults or calves)irrespective of their age or usefulness is, in our view, nota  reasonable restriction imposed on, the butchers  (Kasais)in  the	 interest  of the general  public  and	that  being,therefore, void, no question can arise, even in660Bihar, of any total prohibition of the rights of butchers tocarry on their occupation or business.	In this view of	 thematter	we  need  express  no final  opinion  on  the  vexedquestion  as to whether restrictions permissible  under	 cl.(6)  of	 Art.  19 may extend  to  total	 prohibition.	Thatquestion was left open by this court in Saghir Ahmed v.	 TheState O. U. P. and others (1) and in The State of Bombay  v.R. M. D. Chamarbaugwala (2) and in the view we have taken onthe  facts  and	 construction  of  the	several	 Acts  underconsideration,	does not call for an answer in disposing  ofthese petitions.  The question that calls for an answer fromus  is	whether	 these restrictions are	 reasonable  in	 theinterests of the general public.Clause	(6) of Art. 19 protects a law which imposes  in	 theinterest  of the general public reasonable  restrictions  onthe  exercise of the right conferred by sub cl. (g)  of	 cl.(1) of Art. 19.	 Quite obviously it is left to the court, incase  of  dispute, to determine the  reasonableness  of	 therestrictions  imposed  by  the	law.   In  determining	thatquestion the court, we conceive, cannot proceed on a generalnotion	of what is reasonable in the abstract or even  on  aconsideration  of what is reasonable from the point of	viewof  the	 person	 or persons on	whom  the  restrictions	 areimposed.  The right conferred by sub-cl. (g) is expressed ingeneral	 language  and	if  there  had	been  no  qualifyingprovision  like el. (6), the right so conferred	 would	havebeen an absolute one.  To the person who has this right	 anyrestriction will be irksome and may well be regarded by	 himas unreasonable.  But the question cannot be decided on thatbasis.	What the court has to do is to consider whether	 therestrictions imposed are reasonable in the interests of	 thegeneral	 public.   In the State of Madras v. V. 0.  Row	 (3)this  court has laid down the test of reasonableness in	 thefollowing terms:"  It is important in this context to bear in mind that	 thetest  of  reasonableness,  wherever  prescribed,  should  beapplied to each individual statute impugned-,(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 707, 724.	 (2) [1957] S.C.R. 874.(3) [1952] S.C.R. 597, 607.661and  no	 abstract standard, or general pattern,	 of  reason-ableness  can be laid down as applicable to all cases.	 Thenature	of  the right alleged to have  been  infringed,	 theunderlying  purpose of the restrictions imposed, the  extentand  urgency of the evil sought to be remedied thereby,	 thedisproportion  of the imposition, the prevailing  conditionsat the time, should all enter into the judicial verdict.  Inevaluating  such  elusive  factors  and	 forming  their	 ownconception  of what is reasonable, in all the  circumstancesof a given case, it is inevitable that the social philosophyand  the scale of values of the judges participating in	 thedecision  should  play an important part, and the  limit  totheir  interference with legislative judgment in such  casescan  only be dictated by their sense of	 responsibility	 andself-restraint	 and  the  sobering  reflection	  that	 theConstitution  is meant not only for people of their  way  ofthinking  but for all, and that the majority of the  electedrepresentatives	 of  the  people have,	in  authorising	 theimposition  of	the  restrictions,  considered	them  to  bereasonable."These observations have been adopted by this Court in  latercases, e. g., The State of West Bengal v. Subodh Gopal	Bose(1) and Ebrahim Vazir Mavat v. The State of Bombay (2).	  Inthis  connection  it  will  also be  well  to  remember	 theobservation  of	 Mahajan  J.  in  The  State  of  Bihar	  v.Maharajadhiraj	Sir  Kameshwar	Singh  of  Dharbangha	(3),namely, that " the legislature is the best judge of what  isgood  for  the community, by whose suffrage  it	 comes	intoexistence....... This should be the proper approach for	 thecourt  but the ultimate responsibility for  determining	 thevalidity  of the law must rest with the court and the  courtmust  not  shirk  that	solemn	duty  cast  on	it  by	 theConstitution.	We have, therefore, to approach the  problemnow  before us in the light of the principles laid  down  bythis Court.The avowed object of each of the impugned Acts is to  ensurethe preservation, protection, and improvement of the cow andher progeny.  This solicitude(1) (1954] S.C.R. 587, 627.  (2) [1954] S.C.R. 933, 949-950,		(3) [1952] S.C.R. 889, 041.662arises	out of the appreciation of the usefulness of  cattlein  a  predominantly  agricultural  society.   Early  Aryansrecognised  its importance as one of the most  indispensableadjuncts  of  agriculture.  It would appear  that  in  Vedictimes  animal  flesh formed the staple food of	the  people.This  is attributable to the fact that the climate  in	thatdistant	 past  was extremely cold and the Vedic	 Aryans	 hadbeen   a  pastoral  people  before  they  settled  down	  asagriculturists.	  In  Rg.  Vedic times goats,  sheep,  cows,buffaloes and even horses were slaughtered for food and	 forreligious  sacrifice and their flesh used to be	 offered  tothe Gods.  Agni is called the " eater of ox or cow " in	 Rg.Veda (VIII. 43, 11).  The staying of a great ox (Mahoksa) ora  "  great  Goat  " (Mahaja) for  the	entertainment  of  adistinguished  guest  has  been enjoined  in  the  SatapathaBrahmana (111. 4. 1-2).	 Yagnavalkya also expresses  similarview (Vaj 1. 109).  An interesting account of those    earlydays  will be found in Rg.  Vedic Culture by Dr. A. C.	Das,Ch. 5, pp. 203-5, and in the History of Dharmasastras  (Vol.II-,  Part  II) by P. V. Kane at pp.  772-773.	 Though	 thecustom	of slaughtering of cows and bulls  prevailed  duringthe Vedic period, nevertheless, even in the Rg.	 Vedic timesthere seems to have grown up a revulsion of feeling  againstthe  custom.   The cow gradually came to acquire  a  specialSanctity and was called " Aghnya " (not to be slain).  Therewas  a	school of thinkers amongst the Rsis, who  set  theirface  against the custom of killing such useful	 animals  asthe  cow and the bull.	High praise was bestowed on the	 cowas  will  appear from the following verses from	 Rg.   Veda,Book VI, Hymn XXVIII (Cows) attributed to the authorship  ofSage Bhardvaja:"  1. The kine have come and brought good fortune; lot	themrest in the cow-pen and be happy near US.Here  let  them	 stay prolific,	 many  coloured,  and  yieldthrough many morns their milk for Indra.6. O cows, ye fatten e'en the worn and wasted, and make	 theunlovely beautiful to look on.Prosper	 my house, ye with auspicious voices, your power  isglorified in our assemblies.6637.   Crop  goodly  pasturages and be  prolific;	 drink	puresweet water at good drinking places.Never  be thief or sinful man your master, and may the	dartof Rudra still avoid you.(Translation by Ralph Griffith).  Verse 29 of Hymn 1 in BookX.of Atharva Veda forbids cow slaughter inthe following words:"  29.	The slaughter of an innocent, O Kritya, is an  awfuldeed, Slay not cow, horse, or man of ours.  " Hymn 10 in thesame Book is a rapturous glorification of the cow:"  30.	 The  cow is Heaven, the cow is Earth,	the  cow  isVishnu, Lord of life,The  Sadhyas and the Vasus have drunk the outpourings of thecow.34.  Both  Gods and mortal men depend for life and being  onthe cow.She hath become this universe; all that the sun ,surveys  isshe.  "P.V.  Kane argue,, that in the times of' the Rg.  Veda	onlybarren cows,if at all, were killed for sacrifice or meat andcows yielding milk were held to be not fit for being killed.It  is	only  in this way, according to him,  that  one	 canexplain	 and  reconcile the apparent  conflict	between	 thecustom of killing COWS for food and the high praise bestowedoil  the cow in Rg.  Vedic times.  It would appear that	 theprotest	 raised	 against  the  slaughter  of  cows   greatlyincreased in volume till the custom was totally abolished ina  later age.  The change of climate perhaps also  make	 theuse  of beef food unnecessary and even injurious to  health.Gradually cows became indicative of the wealth of the owner.The Neolithic Aryans not having been acquainted with metals,there were no coins in current use in the earlier stages  oftheir  civilisation, but as they were eminently	 a  pastoralpeople almost every family possessed a sufficient number  ofcattle and 'some of them exchanged them for the	 necessariesof  their life,.  The value of cattle (Pasu)was,  therefore,very  great with the early Rg.	Vedic Aryans.	The  ancientRomans also used the word pecus or pecu (pasu) in the  senseof wealth or money.  The English words,664"  Pecuniary  " and " impecunious ", are  derived  from	 theLatin  root pecus or pecu, originally meaning  cattle.	 Thepossession of cattle in those days denoted wealth and a	 manwas considered rich or poor according to the large or  smallnumber	of  cattle  that he owned.   In	 the  Ramayana	KingJanaka's  wealth  was described by reference  to  the  largenumber of herds that he owned.	It appears that the cow	 wasgradually  raised  to the status  of  divinity.	  Kautilya'sArthasastra  has a special chapter (Ch.	 XXIX) dealing	withthe "superintendent of cows" and the duties of the owner  ofcows  are  also referred to in Ch.  XI of Hindu Law  in	 itssources	 by Ganga Nath Jha.  There can be no gainsaying	 thefact  that  the	 Hindus in general hold	 the  cow  in  greatreverence and the idea of the, slaughter of cows for food isrepugnant  to  their notions and this sentiment has  in	 thepast  even  led to communal riots.  It is also a  fact	thatafter  the  recent partition of the country  this  agitationagainst the slaughter of cows has been further	intensified.While  we agree that the constitutional question  before  uscannot	be  decided on grounds of  mere	 sentiment,  howeverpassion	 ate it may be, we, nevertheless, think that it	 hasto  be taken into consideration, though only as one of	manyelements,  in  arriving	 at a judicial	verdict	 as  to	 thereasonableness of the restrictions.Cattle	in  India, it is said, has a treble  role  to  play,namely, (i) to produce milk for food, (ii) bulls for draughtand (iii) manure for agriculture.  It is necessary to advertto the arguments advanced under each head.  According to the1951  census  there were 15,60,00,000 heads  of	 cattle	 and4,00,00,000  of buffaloes making a total of 19,60,00,000  orroughly 20,00,00,000 of animals belonging to the species  ofbovine	cattle.	  In  India there are 123  heads  of  cattleincluding  buffaloes per square mile and 43 heads  to  every100  persons.	Out  of	 the  total  cattle  population	  of15,60,00,000  and  buffalo population of  4,00,00,000  therewere in Bihar 1,52,97,000 cattle and 33,16,000 buffaloes, inMadhya	Pradesh	 1,48,58,000 heads of cattle  and  26,00,000buffaloes  and in Uttar Pradesh 2,35,13,000 heads of  cattleand 92,50,000 buffaloes.					  665The total distribution of cattle and buffaloes, according toage, sex and work, was as follows:-	  Males			Cattle	       BuffaloesBreeding bulls			   6,52,0003,06,000Working bullocks	    5,88,18,00060,36,000Bulls and bullocks over threeyears not in use for breed-ing and work, i. e., useless.  27,35,0004,66,000Young stock under once year.  97,63,000	   28,70,000Young stock one to three	    years of age.      1,22,57,000  23,84,000Total			 8,42,25,000  1,20,02,000	  FemalesBreeding cows, i.e., cows, over3 years kept for breedingor milk production.	   4,67,23,000	2,10,08,000Cows over 3 years used forwork.			     23,17,000	  5,34,000Cows over 3 years not inuse for work or breedingpurposes, i. e., useless.    12,02,0003,15,000Young stock over 1 year.     93,05,00042,02,000Young stock 1 to 3 years ofage.			      1,25,44,00052,83,000     Total	       7,20,91,000    3,13,42,000     Grand total	 15,63,16,000	4,33,44,000As stated in the Report on the Marketing of Cattle in  Indiaissued	by  the	 Directorate of	 Marketing  and	 Inspection,Ministry of Food and Agriculture, Government of India, 1956,the proportion of males in cattle is a little more than halfof  the	 total	cattle	population whilst  in  the  case  ofbuffaloes,  females  predominate and are about	3/4  of	 thetotal.	For agricultural purposes male cattle are  generallypreferred for their comparative lightness and active nature.Of  the	 total 39,57,000 unserviceable heads  of  cattle  inIndia  there  were  5,35,000 in Bihar,	1,55,000  in  MadhyaPradesh	 and  1,84,000	in  Uttar  Pradesh.   Of  the  total7,81,000666unserviceable buffaloes there were 1,20,000 in Bihar, 15,000in Madhya Pradesh and 28,000 in Uttar Pradesh.Although,  according to the census figures given above,	 ourcattle	wealth is, in number, the highest in the  world	 themilk  production  is perhaps the lowest.  According  to	 thefigures given in the Second Five Year Plan, at the beginningof  the	 First	Five  Year Plan the  milk  output  was	over1,80,00,000  ton,;.   The average yield of milk per  cow  inIndia  was  413	 pounds which is about	the  lowest  of	 anycountry	 in  the  world	 as  against  8,000  pounds  in	 theNetherlands,  7,000  pounds in Australia,  6,000  pounds  inSweden and 5,000 pounds in the U.S.A. Out of the total yieldshe-buffaloes  give 54% while cows give only  42%.   Buffalomilk is richer in fat, 6 to 7% as compared to 4.5% of fat inthe cow's milk,. But cows milk is richer in other  importantcontent.,,  and is more easily digestible.  The average	 percapita consumption of milk and milk products was worked	 outby  the First Five Year Plan at 5.5 ounces, i.e., about	 2.5chhataks  or  1/6 of a seer per day, though  10	 ounces	 arerecommended by nutrition experts.  In the Facts and  Figuresabout  Bihar published in 1955 by the Department  of  PublicRelations,  the average annual. milk yield is stated  to  be620  lbs.  per	cow  and 1,526	lbs.  per  buffalo.   It  isrecognised in Human Nutrition vis-a-vis Animal Nutrition  inIndia,	a  Memorandum  prepared by  the	 Nutrition  AdvisoryCommittee of the Indian Council of Medical Research and	 theAnimal	Committee  of  the Indian  Council  of	AgriculturalResearch  that	the  performance  of  Indian  much  animals,particularly of cows, is extremely poor and that from a moreeconomic  point	 of  view  there does not  seem	 to  be	 anyjustification  for maintaining animals yielding 2 pounds  ofmilk or less per day and perhaps these animals would  betterbe eliminated.	But, as the Memorandum also says, one shouldrealise,  before  such	a  drastic  action  is	taken,	 theconsequences  that  may	 follow from the  adoption  of	thispolicy,	 for if the animals giving 2 pounds or less of	milkare condemned as unsuitable it will mean elimination of morethan  90%  of the present day much cows and  loss  of  about70,00,000 tons out of 97,00,000 tons of annual667gross  production of milk from this group, besides  a  largenumber	of bullocks that they will bear.  According  to	 thetable  of  the	human food requirement	recommended  by	 theNutrition  Advisory  Committee	of  the	 Indian	 Council  ofMedical Research 10 ounces of milk per adult unit per day isnecessary  to  make tip a balanced diet.   The	total  humanpopulation,  according	to  1951  census,  was	35,68,00,000which,	at  the current rate of increase, was  estimated  tohave  reached the figure of 37,76,00,000 in 1956.   Treatingchildren  below 10 years of age as 0.83 of adult value,	 thetotal adult unit is calculated at 31,30,00,000.	 At the rateof  10	ounces of milk per adult per day  we  Would  require3,23,00,000 tons of milk per annum.  It is clear, therefore,that  in  India, where a large section	of  tile  populationconsists  of  vegetarians, there is a huge shortage  in	 thesupply of milk.	 Cows and other milch cattle, therefore, areof  very  great	 value to this	country.  If  milk  yieldingcapacity  were	the  only  consideration  the  comparativelysmaller number of female buffaloes which produce 54% of	 thetotal  milk  supply  of our  country  would  obviously	havedeserved  a  far  greater preference over the  cows  in	 ourestimation.   But,  as	pointed	 out  by  Pandit   ThakurdasBhargava, there is another important consideration which  isperhaps	 more  important from the standpoint of	 human	foodsupply.	  It is the bullock that takes the largest share  inmeeting	  the  power  requirements  for	  our	agriculturalproduction.   Based  perhaps on age  old  experience  Indianagriculturists habitually prefer a cow bullock to a  buffalobullock.   As a result of the evolutionary process of  trialand error, we find in this country about 10 cow bullocks forevery buffalo bullock as is shown by the 1951 census figuresset out above.	If this relative distribution is  consideredunavoidable for our crop production, we may expect no changein  the existing ratio in the population of the two  speciesunless a revolution can be brought about in our methods	 andpractice  of land cultivation.	According to the  Report  onthe  Marketing of Cattle in India, 1956, p. 22, animals	 areutilised   in	India	under  four   heads:(1)	  used	 forcultivating6,54,22,000 (2) used85668for  carting  in  urban areas-11,80,000	 (3)  used  as	packanimals-67,705	and (4) used in oil crushers,  etc.4,30,000,making	up  the total of 6,70,99,705.  As  against  this  wehave,  according to the 1951 census figures set	 out  above,5,88,18,000  working  bullocks	and  60,36,000	working	 he-buffaloes, aggregating to 6,48,54,000.	There is therefore ashortage  of  22,45,705 bullocks including  buffaloes  whichpresumably  represent the dry cows and female buffaloes	 putto  agricultural  labour, as shown in the Second  Five	YearPlan at pp. 281-282.  It is true that tractors have begun tobe  used but they are still of a negligible number  and	 formany  years  to come the country will have  to	depend	uponanimal	power  for her agricultural operations in  order  togrow enough food for meeting the demands of the fast growinghuman  population.  In Uttar Pradesh, according to the	1951census, there were 2,35,12,839 heads of cattle and 92,50,488buffaloes, making a total of 3,27,63,327.  The total area ofUttar Pradesh was 7,22,78,809 acres out of which 4,92,30,120acres were under cultivation.  If a pair of bullocks can  betaken  on an average to cover 10 acres the total area  undercultivation  will  require  98,46,000  bullocks.   The	1951census	figures	 show  1,15,00,000  of	bullocks  which	 areslightly  in excess of the number of bullocks  required	 forthe  purposes  of cultivation only.  Indeed  both  in  UttarPradesh and in Bihar, according to the First Five Year Plan,p.  247, there was a surplus of about 40,00,000 of  bullockswhile in the Punjab and Pepsu the number available was	justadequate to meet the demands.  If, however, account is takenof  the	 other	purposes for which  bullocks  may  be  used,namely,	 for carting or as pack animals or for	working	 oilcrushers  or  drawing water from the  wells  for  irrigationpurposes,  the total available animal power will fall  shortof the requirements.  In addition to that we have to keep inview  the necessity for further expansion of the  cultivatedarea  to  meet	the food requirements of  the  fast  growingpopulation,  and in that case the deficit will go  up  stillfurther.   In  Bihar, according to the	Facts  and  Figures,1956,  the total number of animal population of	 the  bovinespecies were:-     669     Cattle     Cows and oxen (adults)	   1,15,64,310     Cows and oxen (young stock)    37,33,166     Buffaloes (adult)		    23,78,293     Buffaloes (young stock)	    9,37,582     The number of working cattle andbuffaloes works outto one for every 6 acres of net area under cultivation.	  Itfollows,  therefore,  that our working animals	are  perhapsjust  about  sufficient	 to supply the	power  to  keep	 ouragricultural  operations up to the necessary  standard,	 butthe  demand for food is growing and more lands will have  tobe  brought  under cultivation and we shall  require  a	 farlarge number of these animals.There  are  in India, 6,50,000 breeding bulls  and  3,10,000breeding buffaloes.  There are 4,63,40,000 breeding cows and2,09,90,000 breeding buffaloes.	 According to the First FiveYear  Plan,  1). 274, approximately 750 farm bred  bulls  ofknown pedigree are distributed annually by the Government indifferent States for developing and improving the draught aswell  as the milch breeds.  Besides there are some  approvedbulls belonging to private owners.  But the existing  numberof  private  bulls  meets  less than 0.	 15%  of  the  totalrequirements of the country.  According to the Report on theMarketing  of  Cattle in India, p. 9, service  bulls  numberapproximately 6,52,000 or about 0.4% of the total cattle  inthe  country.  In the absence of an arrangement to  castrateor  remove  the	 inferior bulls before a  pedigree  bull  islocated	 in an area, the progeny of the pedigree bulls	haveaccess to scrub, which nullifies the efficiency achieved  inthe  first  generation.	 It is, therefore,  clear  that	 thebreeding  bulls (cattle and buffaloes) are  insufficient  tomeet  the  requirements.  It is true that  the	practice  ofartificial insemination has been introduced in some  centresbut for many years to come Indian animal husbandry will haveto  depend on the ordinary breeding bulls.  We are in  shortsupply of them.The third utility of these animals (cattle and buffaloes) isthe dung.  The First Five Year Plan at p. 255670records	 that  80,00,00,000 tons of dung are  available	 perannum.	50% of this is used as fuel by cultivators  and	 theother  50% is used as manure.  If suitable supplies of	fuelcould  be made available to the cultivators then the  entirequantity of dung could be used for manure.  It is  doubtful,however,  if the cultivators would be in a position  to	 payfor  the  fuel	and utilise the entirety  of  the  dung	 formanure.	  Cattle  urine	 is also useful	 for  the  nitrogen,phosphates and potash contents in it.  In terms of money thedung  and the urine will account for a large portion of	 theagricultural  income  in  India.   Indeed  Pandit  ThakurdasBhargava  appearing  as	 amnicus  curiae  has  claimed	 Rs.63,00,00,000  per  year as the contribution of the  dung  ofthese animals to the national income.The   discussion   in  the  foregoing	paragraphs   clearlyestablishes the usefulness of the cow and her progeny.	Theysustain	 the  health of the nation by giving them  the	lifegiving	 milk	which  is  so  essential  an   item   in   ascientifically	balanced  diet.	 The  working  bullocks	 areindispensable  for  our agriculture, for they  supply  powermore  than  any	 other	animal.	  Good	breeding  bulls	 arenecessary  to  improve	the breed so that  the	quality	 andstamina of the future cows and working bullocks may increaseand  the production of food and milk may improve and  be  inabundance.   The  dung	of the animal is  cheaper  than	 theartificial  manures and is extremely useful.  In short,	 thebackbone  of Indian agriculture is in a manner	of  speakingthe  cow and her progeny.  Indeed Lord Linlithgow has  trulysaid-" The cow and the working bullock have on their patientback  the whole structure of Indian agriculture.  "  (Reporton the Marketing of Cattle in India, p. 20).  If, therefore,we  are to attain sufficiency in the production of food,  ifwe  are to maintain the nation's health, the efficiency	 andbreed	of  our	 Cattle	 population  must  be	considerablyimproved.   To	attain the above objectives we	must  devotegreater	 attention  to	the  preservation,  protection	 andimprovement  of the stock and organise our  agriculture	 andanimal	husbandry on modern and scientific lines.  We  have,therefore,  to examine the provisions of the  impugned	Actsand671ascertain   whether   they  help  in  achieving	  the	saidobjectives,  or are calculated to hinder that  process.	  Inthat  context all the considerations above alluded  to	mustenter the judicial verdict and if the impugned Acts  furtherthe aforesaid purpose then only can the restrictions imposedby  the	 impugned  Acts	 be said to  be	 reasonable  in	 theinterest of the general public.We turn now to the other side of the picture.  In  examiningthe conspectus of the problem the Court cannot overlook	 thefact, emphasised in the petition, that the petitioners and avery  large  number of similarly situated persons,  even  iftheir number does not come up to the figure mentioned in thepetition,  are butchers (Kasais) by occupation and  make  anincome	of about Rs. 150 to Rs. 200 per month and that	theywill be seriously affected, if not completely thrown out  ofoccupation,  by the impugned Acts.  It is true, for  reasonshereinbefore  stated,  that they cannot complain  that	theyhave  been  completely	deprived  of  their  occupation	  orbusiness  but the enactments, if valid, will compel them  tomake fresh arrangements for the supply of animals which	 arepermitted to be slaughtered for food.  Theoretically it	 maynot  be impossible for them to do so, but in practice it  ismore than likely to cause considerable inconvenience to themand  may  even involve extra expenses for  them.   The	hidemerchants,  who, they say in the petition, have	 made  theirarrangements for the supply to them of hides of	 slaughteredanimals	 up  to	 95 % of their	requirements,  may  find  itdifficult  to make fresh arrangements for  procuring  fallenhides.	 The  same observations may be made  about  the	 gutmerchants.   The immediate effect of the operation of  theseActs  is to cause a serious dislocation of the	petitioners'business without any compensatory benefit.  In Saghir  Ahmadv.  The State of U. P. (1), at p. 727 this  Court  observed,with  respect  to the persons engaged in running  buses	 forcarrying passengers:" One thing, however, in our opinion, has a decided  hearingon the question of reasonableness and that is the  immediateeffect which the legislation is likely to(1)[1955] 1 S.C.R. 707,724.672produce.  Hundreds of citizens are earning their  livelihoodby  carrying on this business on various routes	 within	 theState of Uttar Pradesh.	 Although they carry on the businessonly  with the aid of permits, which are granted to them  bythe   authorities   under  the	Motor	Vehicles   Act,	  nocompensation has been allowed to them under the Statute.  "Similar	 inconvenience	may  easily  be	 supposed  to	havebefallen  the petitioners and others of their class and	 theimmediate  and possibly adverse impact of the impugned	Actson  their occupation or business must, therefore,  be  takeninto account as one Of the important factors in judging	 thereasonableness or otherwise of the said Acts.There  is  also no getting away from the fact that  beef  orbuffalo	 meat is an item of food for a large section of	 thepeople in India and in particular of the State of Bihar	 andUttar  Pradesh.	  Table	 11 at p. 24 of the  Report  on	 theMarketing of Cattle in India shows that in the year 1948 theannual demand for cattle and buffaloes for purposes of	foodwas:  1.8,93,000  heads of cattle  and	6,09,000  buffaloes.These figures indicate that beef and buffalo flesh are	usedfor  food by a large section of the people in India.  It  iswellknown  that poorer sections of Muslims,  Christians	 andmembers of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes consume beef	 andbuffalo	 flesh.	 There is also a limited demand for beef  bythe  foreign  population.   Buffaloes  yield   comparativelycoarse	and tough meat of inferior quality and	consequentlythe demand for beef is greater than that for buffalo  flesh.Further	 the  price of the buffalo flesh is 20 to  40%	lessthan that of beef.  The prices of beef and buffalo meat	 aremuch  cheaper  than  that  of  mutton  or  goat's  meat	 andconsequently beef and buffalo flesh come within the reach ofthe  poorer  people perhaps for a day or two  in  the  week.According  to the figures given in the Report of the  ExpertCommittee at 1). 12, in 1938 in -Bombay the prices were	 Rs.0-3-9  per  pound of beef, Rs. 0-2-0 per  pound	 of  buffaloflesh  and Rs. 0-5-6 for mutton and goats' flesh.   In	1950these prices went up respectively to Rs. 0-12-0, Rs.  0-11-0and Rs. 1-3-0.673The  comparatively  low prices of beef, and  buffalo  flesh,which are nearly half of that of mutton or goats' flesh,  isthe  main  reason  for	their  demand.	 Habit	is   perhapssecondary.   Learned  counsel for some of:  the	 petitionerscited  the case of the boys and girls residing	in  boardinghouses	attached to the Anglo-Indian schools where the	onlymeat  which  the boarding school authorities can  afford  tosupply	as part of the diet of the growing children is	beefand  that  only on a day or two in the week.  The  Acts,  ifenforced,  will prevent them. from having even	this  littlebit  of nourishment and amenity. It is true that  after	 thepartition of the country the Muslim population has decreasedand further    that  some  Muslims may not  habitually	takebeef  or buffalo flesh, but even so a large section  of	 thepoorer	people	belonging  to  the  Muslim,  Christian	 andScheduled  Castes  communities do consume beef	and  buffaloflesh.	And this is not merely a matter of amenity or luxurybut is at any rate partially', a matter of necessity.  TableVII  set out at p. 32 of the Memorandum on  Human  Nutritionvis-a-vis Animal Nutrition in India recommends one ounce  ofmeat  daily whereas the available quantity is much less	 andthe attainable quantity under the new plan may be 1/3  ounceor a little more.  Poorer people, therefore, who can  hardlyafford	fruit  or  milk or ghee are likely  to	suffer	frommalnutrition,  if they are deprived of even one	 out-ice  ofbeef  or buffalo flesh which may sometimes be  within  theirreach.	 This aspect of the matter must also be	 taken	intoaccount in assessing the reasonableness of the provisions ofthe impugned Acts.The  number of cattle and buffaloes not fit for breeding  orworking	 has already been set out.  Further  particulars  indetail	are  available	from Appendices II and	III  to	 theReport	on  the Marketing of Cattle in India.	The  figuresgiven there show that according to the 1951 census the totalnumber	of unserviceable male cattle was 27,35,000 and	thatof  female cattle was 12,02,000. Out of these there were  inBihar  2,93,000 male and2,42,000 female, in  Madhya  Pradesh1,24,000 male and31,000 female and in Uttar Pradesh6741,63,000   male	 and  21,000  female.	 The   unserviceablebuffaloes  in the whole of India, according to 1951  census,were 7,81,000 out of which 4,66,000 were males and  3,15,000were  females.	Out of the total there were in Bihar  61,000male  buffaloes	 and  59,000 female,  buffaloes,  in  MadhyaPradesh	 10,000	 male  and 5,000 female,  in  Uttar  Pradesh16,000 male and 12,000 female.	According, to the First FiveYear Plan, p. 273, the overall estimates made by the  CattleUtilisation  Committee	show that about 10 % of	 the  cattlepopulation  in	India  or roughly  1,14,00,000	adults	wereunserviceable  or  unproductive.  The Report of	 the  CattlePreservation  and Development Committee also put the  figureof old, decrepit and unproductive cattle at 10% of the totalpopulation.   Pandit Thakurdas Bhargava does not accept	 thecorrectness of these figures.  It is difficult to find one'sway  out of the labyrinth of figures and it will  be  futilefor  us	 to  attempt to come to a  figure  of  unserviceableagricultural   animals	which  may  even  be   approximatelycorrect.  For our purpose it will suffice to say that  thereis  a fairly large number of cattle and buffaloes which	 arenot  of	 any  use for breeding	or  working  purposes.	 Theposition may be accepted as correctly summed up at p. 274 ofthe  First  Five Year Plan where it is stated,	inter  alia,that  there is a deficiency of good milch cows	and  workingbullocks  and  that  there exists a surplus  of	 useless  orinefficient animals.The  presence of a large number of useless  and	 inefficientcattle in the midst of the good ones affect our agriculturaleconomy	 in  two ways.	In the first place and this  is	 thecrux  of the matter-this surplus stock is pressing upon	 thescanty	fodder and feed resources of the country and  is  anobstacle to making good the deficit,.  As pointed out by theexpert	Committee Report at p. 59 the greatest	handicap  inimproving  our	cattle wealth is the lack  of  resources  infeeding them.  Any effort to improve cattle will fail unlessthey are properly fed.	The table set out on that very	pageof that Report records a deficiency of 6,00,00,000 tons,  i.e.,  33% in straw or Kadbi 10,40,00,000 tons, i.e.,  13%  ingreen fodder and 2,65,20,000 tons, i. e.,67570%  in	 concentrates (i. e., oil cakes,  bran,	 oil  seeds,maize'	barley and gram, etc.). It is pointed out  that	 thefigures	 shown against green fodder are not  the  quantitieswhich  are  presently  available  but!	which  can  be	madeavailable if forest' resources are fully, tapped.  Accordingto  this  Report  even if the  forest  resources  are  fullyutilised  there	 will still be a deficiency of	13%  in	 thesupply.	 The actual availability of this item is limited  bythe  fact  that green fodder is, only available	 during	 themonsoon	 months	 and much of this is wasted by the  lack  ofcountry-wide   arrangements  for  its	conservation.	 Theestimated requirements and the present supply of food stuffsfor  animals  is  also	given in Table V at  p.	 23  of	 theMemorandum on Human Nutrition vis-a-vis Animal Nutrition  inIndia which tallies with and is more or less about the	sameas  those given in the Report of the Expert Committee  abovereferred to.  Table V also shows a deficiency of 6,00,00,000tons  of  straw or Kadbi 1,78,00,000 tons of  green  fodder.The  shortage  of  concentrates, i. e.,	 oil  cakes,  maize,barley, gram, cotton seed and bran vary between 8,50,000  to71,17,000  tons.   According to the estimate  given  in	 theFirst  Five  Year  Plan at p. 273  the	quantity  of  fodderavailable  is  about  75% of  requirements  while  availableconcentrates of feeds would suffice only for about 28 % of 1the  cattle.  The, figures given at p. 24 of the  report  ofthe  Gosamvardhan  Enquiry Committee set up  by,  the  UttarPradesh	 Government are interesting.  The total cattle:	 andbuffalo	 population  in,  Uttar	 Pradesh  is  estimated	  at3,27,63,327.  The scientific food requirements of this totalpopulation,  according to, the Western standard, are:  firstset  out.  Then begins a: process of scaling down,  for	 theabove-	scale is, considered to be somewhat lavish  for	 ourlow sized village cattle.  The Indian standard, according tothis  report,  will,  require much  less  and  the  figures,according to Indian standards, are next set out.   Evidentlythese,	 figures  also,	 show  a,  very	 big  gap   between,requirements  and the available, quantities.  So the  reportsays  that  event,  this  may,	be  reduced  and  -what	  issignificantly 86676described as the " critical limit " is then set out.  It  isnot quite intelligible why an Indian cow should not  requireeven an Indian standard of ration.  Be that as it may,	evenfor the " critical limit " the quantity available is far tooshort.	 The  gap  between the critical limit  and  what  isavailable  is respectively 1,80,00,000 tons of	dry  matter,15,00,000 tons of protein and 28,61,70,00,000 therms.  It isconceded  that	the  requirements  of  mixed  population  of3,27,63,327  heads of animals may be taken  as	representing2,71,30,000  adult  units  and with  the  present  availablesupply	of  straw, green feed and concentrates	these  adultunits  cannot  be  fully  fed even  on	the  critical  limitstandard.  The available supply can support only 1,59,20,000adult  units  leaving 1, 1 2, 1 0,000 units  unfed.   It  isrecognised  by this Report that with an increase  in  cattlepopulation   and  better  prophylactic	 treatment   againstcontagious diseases, the trend of population will be towardsan  increase  and the deficiency in  nutrition	will  becomestill  more  pronounced.   The	remedy	suggested  is	thatattention  be paid urgently towards the production  of	morefodder from cultivated land and utilisation of all  marginaland  sub-marginal  land	 for  augmenting  food	and   foddersources.With a large population of animals in which the majority  isnot yielding adequate and prompt returns to the owners,	 theanimals are naturally allowed to fenad for themselves and tosubsist	 on  whatever the agriculturist is able	 to  providefrom  his scanty sources for the maintenance of	 his  stock.Naturally, therefore, the problem of substantial  precentageof  uneconomical  cattle has cropped up along with  that  ofstray, wild, old, diseased and uneconomical animals.   Theseold and useless animals roaming about at pleasure in  searchof  food  are  a  nuisance and a source	 of  danger  in	 thecountryside.  They grow wild and become a menace to the cropproduction.   As  pointed out by the Report  of	 the  ExpertCommittee,  the danger was actually seen by the	 members  ofthat  Committee in Pepsu where, it is significant  to  note,the slaughter is banned completely.677The  presence of a large number of old and  useless  animalsalso has a bad effect on the quality of the breed.  There isa  tendency for this population to multiply and	 bring	intobeing  progeny	of a very inferior kind which  is  bound  toadversely  affect the production of milk or  bullock  power.It  is absolutely necessary that this surplus cattle  shouldbe  separated from the good and robust animals and  a  totalban  on	 slaughter of cattle and buffaloes  will  contributetowards worsening the present condition.The Cattle Preservation and Development Committee set up  bythe  Government	 of  India in 1948 at p. 47  of	 its  Reportrecommended,  as  a panacea for the evil menace	 of  uselesscattle,	  a   scheme  for  the	 establishment	 of   cattleconcentration  camp for the old and useless cattle.   It  isthis scheme which subsequently came to be known by the	nameof Gosadans.  At pp. 48 and 49 are set out the estimates  ofcost  of  establishing	and running a camp  to	house  2,000cattle.	 The non-recurring cost on land, cattle sheds, staffand  servants'	quarters  is shown at  Rs.  32,000  and	 therecurring  cost,  namely,  salary  of  manager,	  stock-man,chaukidars.  and others on the establishment  together	withallowances  is shown at Rs. 13,000 per year and it is  hopedthat  a	 sum of Rs. 5,000 will be derived from the  sale  ofhides,	manure, etc.  According to the Report of the  ExpertCommittee each Gosadhan housing 2,000 heads of cattle  wouldhave  to  have 4,000 acres of land which would permit  of  arotational and controlled grazing practice and provision hasto be made for the surplus grass during the rainy season  tobe  preserved  for  the scarcity months.   There  should  bethatched sheds for protection of the cattle against  weatherand  wild animals and fodder is to be cultivated on a  smallpart  of  the  4,000 acres.  By the end of  1954,  when	 theReport of the Expert Committee came to be made, the cost hadgone  up  from	what  they were	 in  1948  when	 the  CattlePreservation and Development Committee Report had been made.The  estimated cost, according to the Report of	 the  ExpertCommittee,  of	establishing and running of  a	Gosadan	 for2,000 heads of cattle is shown as: nonrecurring678Rs.  50,000,  and recurring Rs. 25,000 per  year.   On	thisbasis  the recurring cost alone will work out at  Rs.  12.50per head of cattle per annum for preserving useless  cattle.The  figures given in the Gosamvardhan	Enquiry	 Committee'sReport are interesting.	 Taking the total number of cattle,%in  Uttar Pradesh not used for breeding or work at  1,83,276in  1951,  the State will require 91 Gosadans  each  with  ahousing capacity for 2,000 heads of cattle.  Even taking oneacre  per  animal  instead  of	two  acres  per	 animal	  asrecommended  by	 the Expert Committee Report,  91  Gosadan,swill require nearly 2,00,000 acres of land.  The cost of  91Gosadans  will be non-recurring Rs. 45,50,000 and  recurringRs. 22,75,000 per annum.  It appears from the revised  modelfor Gosadans for 500: heads of cattle to be run by the StateGovernments set out in Appendix II to the Proceedings of theFifth  Annual  General	Meeting of the	Central	 Council  ofGosamvardhan  held at Now Delhi on February 21,	 1957,	thatthe non-recurring cost will be Rs. 39,000 and the  recurringrunning cost will be Rs. 12,000.  It is estimated that therewill be an income of Rs. 2,500 from the sale of hides,	etc.Allowing  this,	 the net annual recurring cost will  be	 Rs.9,500 for 500 heads of cattle which works out at Rs. 19	 perhead of cattle per annum.  As regards Gosadans to be run  byprivate institutions it is said in the same Appendix II thatthose  institutions  will be given a subsidy of Rs.  18	 perhead  per annum out of which 75% would %,be  contributed  bythe Centre and the remaining 25% by the State.	Thus for thepreservation of the useless cattle the country will pay	 Rs.19  or	Rs. 18 per head of such useless	 cattle	 per  annum,whereas our total national expenditure on education (Centraland States including local bodies) in 1955-1956 was only Rs.4-9 per capita as against Rs. 104.6 per capita in the UnitedKingdom	 and  Rs. 223.7 per capita in the United  States  ofAmerica and our target for 1957-1958 works out at Rs. 5	 percapita	per annum.  It will be noticed that in none  of	 theschemes	 is  even  a pice provided  for	 fodder.   The	ideaevidently is that the cattle will be left there to fend	 forthemselves on whatever grass or679other green feed they can get by grazing.  If one  remembersthat  though  green fodder may be available in	the  monsoonmonths,	 there will be a dearth, of them in the dry  months,one  will at once see that the segregating of the cattle  inthe concentration camp will only be to leave them to a	fateof slow death.	The very idea that these animals should	 ekeout their livelihood by grazing and that Gosadans should  belocated in out of the way places, appeared to the authors ofthe Memorandum on Human Nutrition vis-a-vis Animal Nutritionat  p. 47, to belie the humanitarian considerations  on	 thebasis of which the scheme was conceived.Theory	apart,	the Gosadan scheme has 'been tried  and	 theresult is not at all encouraging.  The First Five Year Plan,obviously  as  an  experimental measure,  provided  for	 theestablishment  of 160 Gosadans each housing 2,000  heads  ofcattle,	 at  a cost of about Rs.  97,00,000.   The  PlanningCommission  recognised that these measures would touch	onlythe  fringe of the problem and the success of  the  movementwould  depend  on the amount of public	support,  especiallyfrom  charitable institutions that it received.	  The  sheerweight of the figures of expenses compelled the GosamvardhanEnquiry	 Committee  to recognise that if  the  unwanted	 anduneconomic  cows  and their progeny have to  be	 effectivelysaved from slaughter, the responsibility had to be shared bythe  individual,  the community and so on, for it  would  beutterly	  impracticable	 to  expect  that  the	 burden	  ofcollection  of such animals from villages  and	transportingthem to the Gosadans would be within the exclusive means andcompetence of the State.  That Committee certainly  expectedthe  State to share a particular portion of the	 expenditurewhich legitimately fell in its sphere of responsibility, butthe  Committee felt, and said so in so many words,  that  byfar  the  most	substantial portion  of	 the  responsibilityshould	rest on the owners and the community itself  for  itwas but equitable to expect that if the cow had to be reallysaved  from  slaughter the cost on this	 account  should  beequitably borne by the people and the State.  This680part  of  the Report of the Gosamvardhan  Enquiry  Committeereads  like wishful thinking and amounts to only hoping	 forthe  best.   When the conscience of the	 individual  or	 thecommunity  did not prevent the Hindu owner from selling	 hisdry cow to the butcher for a paltry sum of Rs. 30 to Rs.  40per  head,  when the Hindu sentiment for  the  divinity	 andsanctity  attributed  to  the cow has to be  propped  up  bylegislative compulsion, when according to its own Report  atp.  41	the Dharmada and Brit collected by the	Hindu  busi-nessmen	 on each commercial transaction ostensibly  for	 thebenefit of the cow is not made available in full and finallywhen  Goshalas have had to be closed down for want of  fundsand public support, when the country cannot spend more	thanRs.  5 per capita per annum on the education of the  people,it seems to be somewhat illogical and extravagant, borderingon  incongruity,  to  frame a scheme  for  establishment  ofGosadans  for preserving useless cattle at a cost of Rs.  19or  Rs.	 18  per  head per annum and  which  will,  for	 itssuccess,  admittedly have to depend on the same elusive	 andillusory  public  support or 75% subsidy  from	the  CentralGovernment.What  has been the result of the experiment?   According  tothe Report of the Expert Committee since the First Five YearPlan  only  17	Gosadans had been started  in  Bihar,  UttarPradesh,  Pepsu,  Coorg,  Bhopal,  Kutch,  Vindhya  Pradesh,Tripura and Saurashtra put together.  Not even one of  these17  establishments is fully stocked.  There are	 only  about5,293  animals	in  these 17  Gosadans	instead	 of  34,000.According  to the Gosamvardhan Enquiry	Committee's  Report,only  two  Gosadans had been established up to the  date  ofthat Report in Uttar Pradesh.  The Second Five Year Plan (p.283) shows that out of the 160 Gosadans for which  provisionhad been made in the First Five Year Plan, only 22  Gosadanshad  been established.	According to the Facts	and  Figuresabout	Bihar,	1955,  p.  88,	three  Gosadans	  had	beenestablished  at	 Berwadih, Nirmali and Monghyr	where  therewere  about 700 uneconomic animals at that time	 instead  of6,000  which  should have been there as	 per  the  estimatedcapacity for each Gosadan.681What,  in  the	view  of  the  several	committees,  is	 theconclusion ? According to the Memorandum on Human  NutritionVis-a-vis  Animal  Nutrition  in India, p.  4,	the  presentscheme	of  establishing Gosadans for  segregating  old	 anduseless	 animals  can serve only a limited, purpose  and  ifextended  countrywide,	it is likely to hinder	rather	thanhelp  the problem of disposing of, the surplus animals.	  Atp.  47	the authors of this Memorandum appear to  have	feltthat  in  advocating, the adoption of Gosadan  Scheme  on  acountrywide,  basis, sufficient consideration had  not	beengiven  to  its practical aspects.  It is  pointed  out	thataccording  to  the  present estimate  the  total  number  ofuseless	 animals  is four times the number the	Second	Five-Year  Plan  had  estimated and	 that  consequently,  havingregard	to  the	 huge  size of	our  cattle  population	 theexisting   number  of  the  useless  section  would   remainunchanged  for	many  years to come and that a	sum  of	 Rs.3,04,00,000 will be required only for pounding such animals.The   Expert  Committee's  Report  is  quite  definite	 andemphatic.   Paragraph  133 of that Report at P.	 62  clearlyexpresses the opinion that Gosadans do not offer a  solutionto  the problem.  To house and maintain all  these  animals,thousands  of  Gosadans on lakhs of acres of land  would  beneeded.	  In addition to the huge nonrecurring	expenses,  avery  high  recurring annual expenditure would	have  to  beincurred.,  In view of this and in view of  the	 indifferentresponse from the States in setting up Gosadans, the  ExpertCommittee came to the conclusion that the Gosadan scheme wasnot likely to offer any solution for the problem of  uselesscattle	and that it would be far more desirable	 to  utilisethe  limited  resources	 of  the  country  to  increase	 theefficiency of the useful cattle.The  Report  of	 the  Cattle  Preservation  and	 DevelopmentCommittee  did not recommend the immediate total ban on	 theslaughter of all cattle.  They recommended the establishmentof  concentration  camps, later	 on  euphemistically  calledGosadans,  and though total ban was the ultimate  objective,it  did	 not,  for the moment,	prohibit  the  slaughter  ofanimals over the age of 14 years and of animals of any age682permanently  unfit  for work or breeding owing, to  age	 or,deformity.   In para. 134 of the Expert	 Committee's  Reportat,  p. 63 it, is stated clearly that the total ban  on	 theslaughter  of all cattle would not be in the best  interestsof the country as it is merely a negative and not a positiveapproach to the problem.  They consider that a	constructiveapproach  to  the  problem will be, to see  that  no  usefulanimal is slaughtered and that the country's. resources	 arefully harnessed to produce better and more efficient cattle.Neither	 the First Five Year Plan nor -the Second Five	YearPlan  accepted the idea of a total ban on the  slaughter  ofcattle.	  Indeed, according to the Second Five Year Plan,  atotal  ban will help the tendency for the number of  surpluscattle	to increase and, in their view, a total ban  on	 theslaughter  of all cows, calves and other milch	and  draughtcattle	will  defeat  the  very	 object	 of  the   directiveprinciples embodied in Art. 48 of the Constitution.  We findfrom para. 6 on p. 283 of the Second Five Year Plan that theGosadan	 scheme	 did  not make	any,  real  or	satisfactoryprogress and that altogether 22 Gosadans housing only  8,000cattle had been established by the States up to the date  ofthat  document	and  even  then	 many  of  the	States	 hadencountered difficulty in, securing the areas of land neededfor  their; operations.	 The Planning Commission  consideredthat  it  would be impossible to establish enough  of  theseGosadans  and they reached the conclusion that	in  definingthe scope. of the ban on the slaughter of cattle the  Statesshould	take  a,  realistic view  of  the  fodder  resourcesavailable  in the country. and the extent to which they	 canget the. co-operation of voluntary organisations to bear themain  responsibility  for,  maintaining	 unserviceable,	 andunproductive  cattle with a measure of assistance  from	 theGoverment land general support from; the people., As alreadystated,'  the,	Memorandum  on	Human  Nutrition  vis-a-vis,Animal.	  Nutrition  at	 p. 4 expressed the  view  that	 theGosadan	 scheme	 can, serve only a limited purpose  and,  ifextended countrywide was likely, to hinder, rather than helpthe  problem  of disposing of the, surplus  animals,  appartFrom the huge initial cost.  A, large, concentration of683useless	 animals  within a restricted area, the	 authors  ofthat  Memorandum  feared, might lead  to  considerable	soilerosion	 due  to  overgrazing  and  there  might  be   everypossibility  of contagious and parasitic diseases  spreadingfrom these animals to the surrounding area.  It is only	 theGosamvardan  Enquiry  Committee	 which	had  recommended  animmediate  total  ban  on  the	slaughter  of  all   cattle,irrespective  of age or sex.  It should, however,  be  notedthat even that Committee did not recommend such a total	 banas  a measure independent of all other considerations.	 Itsrecommendation	in this behalf was linked up with and was  apart  of  a  scheme which depended, for its  success,  on  avariety of imponderable matters, like public enthusiasm	 andsupport for the establishment and maintenance of Gosadans ina  high	 state of working, efficiency, the capacity  of	 theState to bring more lands under cultivation, reclamation  ofthe  jungle lands and the like.	 It may be noted  also	thatalthough in some of the States total ban has been imposed onthe  slaughter of cattle, many of the States have  not	con-sidered it necessary to impose such a blanket ban.  Thus theAssam  Cattle  Protection  Act,	 1950,	the  Bombay   AnimalPreservation  Act,  1948, the West Bengal  Animal  SlaughterControl	 Act, 1950, the Hyderabad Slaughter of	Animal	Act,1950, the Travancore-Cochin Notification permit slaughter ofcattle and buffaloes over specified years of age.  Even	 theMadhya	Pradesh Act, as criminally enacted, did not place  atotal ban on the slaughter of all cattle.In earlier times there being enough of pastures and  smallerhuman  and  cattle population and restricted needs,  it	 waspossible  to  rear large and valuable herds and	 organise  asystem	 of   balanced	economy	 as  far   as	agriculturaldevelopment  was  concerned.  Thus, while  the	country	 wasproducing  enough  grain for the requirement  of  the  humanpopulation   there  was	 an  adequate  area  available	 forplentiful grazing of animals, which, supplemented by  fodderavailable   from   agricultural	 production,   assisted	  indeveloping  the	 types of quality animals required  for	 theneeds of the87384times  and the area in question (Report of the	GosamvardhanEnquiry	 Committee).  The position has considerably  changedsince  then.   There  has been a  large	 increase  in  humanpopulation  and	 famines and epidemics having  been  largelybrought	 under	control, there has been an increase  in	 theanimal	population  also.  Already there  is  a	 competitionbetween	 man  and the animal for the  available	 land.	 Thegrowing human population needs more food for which more landis  required.  The refugee problem has yet to be solved	 andsufficient  land has to be found for settling  the  refugeestherein.    With   organised   facilities   for	  artificialfertilisers  and the introduction of scientific	 methods  ofcultivation agricultural production is expected to  increaseand the problem of food for human consumption may be capableof a satisfactory solution.  But as regards the cattle	feedthe gap between the requirement and the available quantitiesis so wide that there is little possibility, in any foresee-able  future, of the country producing enough to  feed	themadequately.To  summarise:	The  country is in  short  supply  of  milchcattle, breeding bulls and working bullocks.  If the  nationis  to	maintain itself in health and  nourishment  and	 getadequate  food,	 our cattle must be improved.  In  order  toachieve	 this  objective  our  cattle  population  fit	 forbreeding  and work must be properly fed and whatever  cattlefood is now at our disposal and whatever more we can producemust  be  made available to the useful cattle which  are  inpresenti  or will in futuro be capable of yielding  milk  ordoing  work.  The maintenance of useless cattle	 involves  awasteful  drain	 on the nation's cattle feed.	To  maintainthem  is  to deprive the useful cattle of  the	much  needednourishment.  The presence of so many useless animals  tendsto  deteriorate	 the breed.  Total ban on the  slaughter  ofcattle, useful or otherwise, is calculated to bring about  aserious dislocation, though not a complete stoppage, of	 thebusiness of a considerable section of the people who are  byoccupation  butchers  (Kasais), hide merchants	and  so	 on.Such  a ban will also deprive a large section of the  peopleof what may685be their staple food.  At any rate, they will have to foregothe  little protein food which may be within their means  totake  once  or twice in the week.  Preservation	 of  uselesscattle	by  establishment of Gosadans is  not,	for  reasonsalready indicated, a practical proposition.  Preservation ofthese useless animals by sending them to concentration campsto fend for themselves is to leave them to a process of slowdeath  and does no good to them.  On the contrary, it  hurtsthe best interests of the nation in that the useless  cattledeprive	 the useful ones of a good part of the cattle  food,deteriorate  the breed and eventually affect the  productionof  milk  and breeding bulls and working  bullocks,  besidesinvolving an enormous expense which could be better utilisedfor more urgent national needs.We are not unmindful of the fact that beef and buffalo fleshfrom  calves  under  one  year of  age.	 heifers  and  youngcastrated  stock yielding meat of a superior  quality  fetchcomparatively  higher prices in the market  and,  therefore,the tendency of the butchers naturally is to slaughter youngcalves.	  This	circumstance clearly warns us  that  calves,heifers and young castrated stock (cattle and buffalo) whichwill  in  future supply us milk and power  for	purposes  ofagriculture require protection.	 We also do not fail to bearin  mind  that for very good and cogent	 reasons  cows	alsorequire	 protection.  Cows give us milk and her progeny	 forfuture	service.  Unfortunately, however, the  average	milkyield  of a cow, as already stated, is very much  less	thanthat   of  a  she-buffalo.   As	 the  Gosamvardhan   EnquiryCommittee's  Report points out, despite all  the  venerationprofessed  for	the cow, when it comes to  the	question  offeeding, the she-buffalo always receives favoured  treatmentand the cow has to be satisfied with whatever remains  afterfeeding the she-buffaloes, bullocks, and calves in order  ofpriority.  The growth of cities and heavy demand for milk inthe  urban areas have contributed to the slaughter  of	goodstock.	 For want of space no freshly calved animal  can  bebrought	 in  without getting rid of one that had  gone	dry.Salvage facilities not being available or, if available,686being  uneconomical,  the  professional	 gowalas,  who	 aremostly,	 if  not  wholly, Hindus, find	it  uneconomical  tomaintain  the cow after she goes dry and  consequently	sellher  to	 the butcher for slaughter at Rs. 30 to Rs.  50	 perhead,  irrespective of her age and  potential  productivity,and  import a fresh cow.  The veneration professed  for	 thesanctity  attached  to the cow does not	 prevent  them	fromdoing  so.   In	 big towns  the	 municipal  regulations	 arestringent  and slaughter is permitted only of  unserviceableand  unproductive  animals.   Instances	 are  not  uncommon,however,  that	to get an animal passed for  slaughter,	 theteeth  or  the	rings  round the horns	of  the	 animal	 aretampered  with and sometimes a cow is even maimed  in  orderthat  she may be passed by the veterinary inspector  as	 fitfor  slaughter.	 Cows, which are rejected by the  inspector,are taken out of the limits of the cities and slaughtered inthe rural areas.  As slaughter is not confined to registeredslaughter  houses,  the number of useful animals  which	 areslaughtered cannot be given accurately.	 It is estimated  inthe  Report  of the Expert Committee at p. 2 that  at  least50,000	high yielding cows and she-buffaloes from cities  ofBombay,	 Calcutta  and Madras alone are	 sent  annually	 forpermature slaughter and are lost to the country.  The causesof  slaughter of useful cattle are enumerated at pp.  2,  3,and  9 of that Report, namely, lack of space in	 the  citiesand suburban areas, long dry period, want of arrangement forbreeding  bulls	 at the proper time, the anxiety to  get  asmuch  milk  out of the cow as possible, -the  high  cost  ofmaintenance  of cows in the cities and the  difficulties  inthe matter of obtaining adequate fodder.  For these  reasonsmany animals are sent to the slaughter houses through  sheereconomic pressure and are replaced by fresh animals importedfrom breeding areas.  The danger of such premature slaughteris  greater for the cow, for being an animal with  a  scantyyield  of  milk it does not pay the owner  to  maintain	 herthrough the long dry period and hence there is an inducementfor  adopting even cruel practices to get her passed by	 theinspectors.  But a dry she-buffalo is well worth  preservingand maintaining687in  expectation	 of  rich  return  at  the  next  lactation.Besides,  buffaloes for slaughter will not fetch as  good  aprice  as  cows would do.  Likewise there will not  be	muchinducement to the agriculturist or other owner to part	withthe breeding bulls or working bullocks (cattle and. buffalo)as long as they are serviceable.  For their sheer usefulnessand  their high market value as breeding or working  animalsthe breeding bulls and working bullocks, as long as they arefit,  are, to the agriculturists, worth more than the  priceof their flesh in gold.	 There can hardly be any  inducementfor  maiming  valuable animals which, as breeding  bulls  orworking	  animals,   can  at  any  time	  fetch	  from	 theagriculturists a price higher than what the maimed ones willfetch  from  the butchers.  The breeding bulls	and  workingbullocks  (cattle and buffaloes) do not, therefore,  requireas much protection as cows and calves do.The  next question is as to what should be the scope of	 theban  on	 the  slaughter of animals.  One view  is  that	 theslaughter  of  all  animals (cattle and	 buffaloes)  of	 allcategories should be regulated by the State and that animalsbelow  a  specified age or not suffering from  some  naturaldeformity should not be allowed to be slaughtered.   Drasticand  stringent	regulations have been imposed  by  municipallaws and have been tried but experience shows that they	 arenot  sufficient	 at least to protect the cow.  It  has	beenfound  to be extremely difficult to enforce the	 regulationsfor inadequacy of staff and veterinary inspectors, little orno  check  on the veterinary inspectors who succumb  to	 thepressure or inducements of the butchers and pass animals notreally useless as and for useless and aged animals.  A largepercentage  of	the  animals  not  fit	for  slaughter	 areslaughtered  surreptitiously outside the  municipal  limits.For   reasons  of  economy  rapacious  gowalas	or   callousagriculturists find it uneconomical to maintain the dry	 cowand even resort to cruel practices and maim the cow in orderto  get	 her passed for slaughter.  As already	stated,	 theshe-buffalo  and  the breeding bulls  and  working  bullocks(both cattle and buffaloes) for their value, present and688future,	 do not ruin the same amount of danger as a dry	 cowdoes.  Regulation of slaughter of animals above a  specifiedage may not be quite adequate protection for the cow but maybe  quite  sufficient  for the breeding	 bulls	and  workingbullocks and the she-buffaloes.	 These considerations induceus  to	make  an exception even in favour  of  the  old	 anddecrepit cows.	The counsel for the petitioners, be it	saidto their credit, did not contend otherwise.After  giving our most careful and anxious consideration  tothe pros and cons of the problem as indicated and  discussedabove  and keeping in view the presumption in favour of	 thevalidity  of  the  legislation and  without  any  the  leastdisrespect to the opinions of the legislatures concerned  wefeel that in discharging the ultimate responsibility cast onus  by	the Constitution we must approach  and	analyse	 theproblem	 in an objective and realistic manner and then	makeour pronouncement on the reasonableness of the	restrictionsimposed	 by  the impugned enactments.	So  approaching	 andanalysing  the problem, we have reached the  conclusion	 (i)that  a total ban on the slaughter of cows of all  ages	 andcalves of cows and calves of she-buffaloes, male and female,is quite reasonable and valid and is in consonance with	 thedirective principles laid down in Art. 48, (ii) that a totalban  on the slaughter of she-buffaloes or breeding bulls  orworking	 bullocks (cattle as well as buffaloes) as  long  asthey  are as milch or draught cattle is also reasonable	 andvalid  and (iii) that a total ban on the slaughter  of	she-buffaloes, bulls and bullocks (cattle or buffalo) after theycease  to  be  capable of yielding milk or  of	breeding  orworking as draught animals cannot be supported as reasonablein the interest of the general public.We  now	 proceed to test each of the impugned  Acts  in	 thelight  of the aforesaid conclusions we have arrived  at	 TheBihar  Act, in so far as it prohibits the slaughter of	cowsof all ages and calves of cows and calves of buffaloes, maleand  female, is valid.	The Bihar Act makes  no	 distinctionbetween	 she-buffaloes,	 bulls	and  bullocks  (cattle	 andbuffaloes) which areuseful	as  milch or breeding or draught animals  and  thosewhich  are not and indiscriminately prohibits  slaughter  ofshe-buffaloes,	bulls  and  bullocks  (cattle  and  buffalo)irrespective  of their age or usefulness.  In our  view	 theban  on	 slaughter  of	she-buffaloes,	breeding  bulls	 andworking	 bullocks (cattle. and buffalo) which are useful  isreasonable  but of those which are not useful is not  valid.The  question  as to when a she-buffalo,  breeding  bull  orworking bullock (cattle and buffalo) ceases to be useful andbecomes	  useless   and	 unserviceable	is  a	matter	 forlegislative  determination.   There is no provision  in	 theBihar Act in that behalf.  Nor has our attention been  drawnto any rule which may throw any light on the point.  It	 is,therefore,   not   possible  to	 apply	 the   doctrine	  ofseverability  and  uphold the ban on the slaughter  of	she-buffaloes,  breeding bulls and working bullocks (cattle	 andbuffalo)  which are useful as milch or breeding	 or  workinganimals	 and strike down the ban on the slaughter  of  thosewhich  are  useless.   The  entire  provision  banning	 theslaughter  of  she-buffaloes, breeding	bulls,	and  workingbullocks  (cattle and buffalo) has, therefore, to be  struckdown.	The  result is that we uphold and declare  that	 theBihar Act in so far as it prohibits the slaughter of cows ofall  ages and calves of cows and calves of  buffaloes,	maleand  female, is constitutionally valid and we hold that,  inso  far	 as  it	 totally prohibits  the	 slaughter  of	she-buffaloes,  breeding bulls and working bullocks (cattle	 andbuffalo), without prescribing any test or requirement as  totheir  age  or usefulness, it infringes the  rights  of	 thepetitioners  under  Art. 19 (1) (g) and is  to	that  extentvoid.As regards the U. P. Act we uphold and declare, for  reasonsalready stated, that it is constitutionally valid in so	 faras it prohibits the slaughter of cows of all ages and calvesof  cows, male and female, but we hold that in so far as  itpurports to totally prohibit the slaughter of breeding bullsand  working  bullocks	without	 prescribing  any  test	  orrequirement  as	 to  their age	or  usefulness,	 it  offendsagainst Art. 19 (1) (g) and is to that extent void.690As  regards the Madhya Pradesh Act we likewise declare	thatit  is constitutionally valid in so far as it prohibits	 theslaughter  of cows of all ages and calves of cows, male	 andfemale,	 but  that  it	is void in  so	far  as	 it  totallyprohibits  the	slaughter  of breeding	bulls  and  working-bullocks  without prescribing any test or requirement as  totheir age or usefulness.  We also hold that the Act is validin  so	far as it regulates the slaughter of  other  animalsunder  certificates  granted by	 the  authorities  mentionedtherein.In  the	 premises  we direct the respondent  States  not  toenforce	 their respective Acts in so far as they  have	justbeen  declared	void by us.  The parties will bear  and	 paytheir own costs of these applications.Petitions partly allowed.