PETITIONER:THE STATE	Vs.RESPONDENT:HIRALAL G. KOTHARI AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:30/11/1959BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.IMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1960 AIR  360		  1960 SCR  (2) 355ACT:Criminal Law-Pardon-Conspiracy and allied offences Tender ofPardon of approver for main offence-Separate trial of  otheraccused	 for subsidiary offence-Examination of	approver  assuch   for  subsidiary	offence-Legality-Code  of   CriminalProcedure, 1898, (Act V of 1898), ss. 339, 377(1).HEADNOTE:On  March  9,  1956,  a conspiracy  to	divulge	 the  budgetproposals on receiving valuable consideration was discoveredand a case was registered under s. 165A of the Indian  PenalCode, s. 5(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947,  s.5  of  the Official Secrets Act, 1923, and s.  120B  of	 theIndian Penal Code.  Investigation started on March 10, 1956,and  thereafter pardon was tendered to M by  the  AdditionalDistrict  Magistrate  under s. 337 of the Code	of  CriminalProcedure.    Owing  to	 technical  legal   difficulties   acomplaint  under s. 5 of the Official Secrets Act read	withs.  120B  of  the Indian Penal Code was	 filed	against	 thepersons	 involved and proceedings began before a  magistrateon  this complaint.  In the course of these proceedings	 theprosecution  wanted  to examine M as an	 approver,  but	 theaccused persons objected that as the proceedings before	 themagistrate were only under s. 5 of the Official Secrets	 Actread with S. 12 OB of the Indian Penal Code and as no pardoncould  be  tendered  under s. 337 of the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure  for these offences, M could not be treated as  anapprover but could be examined only as an ordinary  witness.It  was contended for the prosecution that as the person  towhom  pardon  was tendered was expected to  tell  the  wholetruth	including  details  of	other  subsidiary   offencescommitted in the course of the commission of the offence forwhich  pardon  was  tendered, such pardon must	be  held  toinclude	 the  subsidiary offences though not of	 the  naturementioned in s. 377(1), and therefore M could be  consideredas an approver in the present proceedings.Held, that a pardon under s. 377(1) of the Code of  CriminalProcedure  could  be  tendered	only  with  respect  to	 theoffences mentioned therein and that as s. 5 of the  OfficialSecrets	 Act read with s. 120B of the Indian Penal Code	 wasnot  covered  by the words of s. 337(1) no pardon  could  begranted for an offence of this nature.	Consequently, as theproceedings before the magistrate were only with respect  tothese  offences, M could not be treated as an  approver	 forthe purpose of these proceedings.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeals Nos. 25 to27 of 1958.356Appeals from the judgment and order dated June 25, 1957,  ofthe  Punjab  High Court, in Criminal Revisions	Nos.  184-D,185-D  and 186-D of 1956, arising out of  the  judgment	 andorder dated October 23, 1956, of the	Sessions      Judge,Delhi,	in Criminal Revision Applications Nos. 249, 250	 and251 of 1956.Bipin Behari Lal and R. H. Dhebar, for the appellant.G. C. Mathur and I. N. Shroff, for the respondent in Cr.  A.No.25 of 1958.A.  G. Ratnaparkhi, for the respondent in Cr.  A. No. 26  of1958.Respondent in Cr.  A. No. 27 of 1959 did not appear.1959.  November 30.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyWANCHOO	  J.-These   three  appeals  arise  out	  of   threecertificates granted by the Punjab High Court in a  criminalmatter.	  They	will  be dealt with together  as  the  pointraised in them is common.  The brief facts necessary for thepurpose	 are these: There is a Government Printing Press  atRashtrapati  Bhavan  known as  Rashtrapati  Bhavan  PrintingPress  which  is located in the President's  estate  in	 NewDelhi.	Jacobs was the General Foreman of this Press.  Everyyear  the budget proposals are printed at this	Press  underthe supervision of Jacobs.  As usual, Jacobs supervised	 theprinting  of  budget proposals in his official	capacity  inFebruary  1955 also.	     It appears that Jacobs  enteredinto  a	 conspiracy  to	 divulge  the  budget  proposals  onreceiving valuable consideration for the same.	Consequentlythe proposals were divulged to D. P. Chadda and were  passedon to certain businessmen of Bombay, including Nandlal	Moreand  Hiralal G. Kothari through one A. L. Mehra.   All	thiswas done against the provisions of the Official Secrets Act,No. XIX of 1923.  Further an offence was committed under thePrevention of Corruption Act, No. 11 of 1947, also  inasmuchas  money  was	paid  to Jacobs	 for  divulging	 the  budgetproposals.	     The  same thing  happened	in  February1956, with 'respect to the			    357budget proposals for 1956-57.  This was discovered on  March9,  1956,  and a case was registered under s. 165-A  of	 theIndian	Penal Code, s. 5(2) of the Prevention of  CorruptionAct,' s. 5 of the Official Secrets  Act and s. 120-B  of theIndian	Penal  Code and investigation started on  March	 10,1956.  Thereafter, pardon was tendered to A.L. Mehra by	 theAdditional  District Magistrate on March 23, 1956, under  s.337  of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	 The  four  offencesmentioned   above  were	 specified  in	the  order  of	 theAdditional  District Magistrate tendering pardon  to  Mehra.Thereafter owing to technical legal difficulties a complaintunder s. 5 of the Official Secrets Act read with s. 120-B ofthe Indian Penal Code was filed against the persons involvedand  it was, stated in that complaint that proceedings	withthe respect to the charge under s. 5(2) of the Prevention ofCorruption Act would be taken separately.  Proceedings	thenbegan  before  a magistrate on this complaint.	 It  may  bementioned  that no proceedings have yet started	 insofar  asthe  offences under s. 5(2) of the Prevention of  CorruptionAct and s. 165-A of the Indian Penal Code are concerned.In  the course of these proceedings before  the	 magistrate,the  prosecution  wanted to examine Mehra  as  an  approver.Thereupon   the	 accused  persons  objected  that   as	 theproceedings  before the magistrate were only under s.  5  ofthe  Official Secrets Act and s. 120-B of the  Indian  PenalCode,  Mehra  could not be examined as an  approver  and  inconsequence the case could not be committed to the Court  ofSession but should be disposed of by the magistrate himself.The  magistrate	 held  that Mehra could	 be  treated  as  anapprover  and proceedings before him were therefore  in	 thenature	of  commitment proceedings.  Thereupon there  was  arevision to the Sessions Judge who took the view that as theproceedings  before  the magistrate were under s. 5  of	 theOfficial Secrets Act read with s. 120-B of the Indian  PenalCode and as no pardon could be tendered under s. 337 of	 theCode  of Criminal Procedure for these offences, Mehra  couldnot  be treated as an approver and had to be examined as  an46358ordinary  witness  and the proceedings must be	held  to  betrial proceedings before the magistrate and not	  commitmentproceedings.   He therefore recommended	  to the High  Courtthat the order of the magistrate be  set aside.The   High   court   upheld  the  view	 of   the   SessionsJudge  and  ordered accordingly.   It  granted	certificatesunder  Art. 134(1)(c) of the Constitution; and that  is	 howthese three appeals have been filed by the State before us.The only question that has been urged before us is that	 theview of the magistrate is correct and Mehra could be treatedas an approver and examined as such for the purposes of	 theproceedings  before  him.   The question  whether  the	caseshould be committed to the Court of Session does not survivenow  as	 we are told that one of the accused has  asked	 fortrial by the Court of Session as provided under s. 13(2)  ofthe Official Secrets Act.  The High Court examined s. 337 ofthe  Code of Criminal Procedure and came to  the  conclusionthat a pardon under that section could only be tendered withrespect	 to  certain  offences mentioned  therein.   It	 wasfurther of the view that as s. 5 of the Official Secrets Actread with s. 120-B of the Indian Penal Code was not  coveredby the words of s. 337(1) and as the proceedings before	 themagistrate  were only with respect to these offences,  Mehracould not be treated as an approver, to whom pardon had beentendered, for the purpose of these proceedings.A  mere perusal of s. 337 of the Code of Criminal  Procedureshows  that the view of the High Court is correct.   Section337(1)	provides  for tender of a pardon in respect  of	 thefollowing offences, namely-(i)  Any offence triable exclusively by the High Court orCourt of Session ;(ii) Any  offence  punishable with  imprisonment  which	 mayextend	to seven years;(iii)  Any offence under any of the  following	sections  ofthe Indian Penal Code: 161, 165, 165-A, 216-A, 369, 401, 435and 477-A.			    359Thus pardon can only be tendered with respect to an  offencewhich falls in one of these categories.	 It is not  disputedthat an offence under s. 5 of the Official Secrets Act	readwith  s.  120-	B of the Indian Penal	Code  does  not fallwithin any of these categories.	 So if the proceedings	werewith  respect only to an offence under s. 5 of the  OfficialSecrets Act read with s. 120-B of the Indian Penal Code,  s.337 of the Code of Criminal Procedure would not apply and nopardon	could  be  tendered to any  person.   It  is  urged,however,  that s. 337(1) contemplates tender of a pardon  oncondition  of  the person pardoned making a  full  and	truedisclosure  of	the whole of the  circumstances	 within	 hisknowledge relative to the offence and to every other  personconcerned, whether as principal or abettor in the commissionthereof;  and this means that the person to whom  pardon  istendered  is  expected	to tell the  whole  truth  includingdetails	 of  any other subsidiary offence which	 might	havebeen  committed	 in  the course of  the	 commission  of	 theoffence	 for  which  pardon is tendered	 and  therefore	 thepardon	so tendered must be held to include  the  subsidiaryoffence,  even though, if the subsidiary offence alone	werecommitted and were not of the nature mentioned in s. 337(i),no  pardon could have been tendered for the same.   Reliancein  this connection is placed also on s. 339 of the Code  ofCriminal Procedure, which provides that where any person whohas  accepted pardon either by wilfully concealing  anythingessential or by giving false evidence, does not comply	withthe Condition on which the tender was made, he may be  triedfor the offence in respect of which the pardon was  tenderedor  for any other offence of which he appears to  have	beenguilty in connection with the same matter.  It is said	thatthe specific provision for trial for any other offence whichmight have been committed in connection with the same matterin  s.	339  shows that the pardon  would  cover  the  otheroffence also even though it may not be an offence for  whichthe pardon was and could be tendered.We are of opinion that no such inference could be drawn fromthe use of these words in s. 339, for that360section	 deals	with a	different  contingency	 altogether,namely,	 whether  the  conditions of  the  pardon  had	beencomplied   with.    It	 is  to	  be   remembered   that   apardon-	 -tendered  under  s.  337  is	a  protection	fromprosecution.   Failure	 to comply with	 the  conditions  onwhich  the  pardon  is	tendered  removes  that	 protection.All  that  s. 339 says, provided the  requisite	 certificateunder  that  section is given by the Public  Prosecutor,  isthat  the  person  to whom the pardon  is  tendered  can  beprosecuted for the offence for which the pardon was tenderedas  also any other offence of which he appears to be  guiltyin connection with the same matter.  This would be just	 thesame  as if s. 339 merely stated that on failure  to  complywith the conditions of the pardon such pardon would be	for-feited.	 , The words of s. 339 therefore are of no  help  inconstruing  s. 337 and we must look to the words of  337  indeciding  whether a pardon could be tendered for an  offenceunder s. 5 of the Official Secrets Act read with s. 120-B ofthe Indian Penal Code.	The fact that in the application  inwhich	the   police  requested	 the   Additional   DistrictMagistrate  for	 tender	 of pardon or in the  order  of	 theAdditional District Magistrate tendering pardon, s. 5 of theOfficial Secrets Act was mentioned along with other offencesfor  which  pardon could be tendered would not mean  that  apardon	could be tendered for an offence under that  Act  ifunder  the law as provided in s. 337(1) no pardon  could  betendered  for an offence under s. 5 of the Official  SecretsAct.   As  we read s. 337(1), it is to	our  mind  perfectlyclear that pardon can only be tendered under that  provisionwith  respect to the three categories of offences  mentionedtherein and already indicated above and none other.  As s. 5of the Official Secrets Act read with s. 120-B of the IndianPenal  Code does not fall within any of these categories  nopardon	can  be	 tendered  with	 respect  to  that  offence.Therefore, Mehra to whom pardon has been tendered, could notbe  examined  as an approver in the  proceedings  which	 areconcerned  ,only with an offence under s. 5 of the  OfficialSecrets Act read with s. 120-B of the Indian Penal Code.			    361Learned	 counsel  for the appellant drew  our  attention  tothree  cases in support of the view that a pardon  under  s.337(1)	could be tendered not only for the offences  of	 thekind enumerated therein but also other	offences which mightbe committed in the course of the commission of the offencesenumerated  therein but which might not be within the  termsof  s.	337(1).	  These cases are:  Queen-Empress  v.  GangaCharan	(1)  ; Harumal Parmanand v. Emperor (2);  and  ShiamSunder	v.  Emperor  (3).   These  cases  however  refer  todifferent  circumstances altogether and were  not  concernedwith  'the  interpretation  of	s. 337(1)  of  the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure.  In all these cases the  question	thatarose  before  the courts was whether an  approver  who	 wasprosecuted  under  s. 339 for certain offences could  be  orshould	be so prosecuted.  They also turned on the terms  ofthe pardon granted in those particular cases.  It was  thereheld  that  where a question arose how far  a  pardon  wouldprotect	 an approver, it. should not be treated in a  narrowspirit,	 bearinG  in mind that in countenaiicing  tender  ofpardons to accomplices the law does not invite a cramped andconstrained  statement	by'  the  approver  but	 requires  athorough and complete disclosure of all the facts within hisknowledge  bearing upon the offence or offences as to  whichhe  gave  evidence.  The considerations which apply  when  atrial is taking place tinder s. 339 of the Code of  CriminalProcedure  are	entirely different.  The proviso to  s.	 339shows  that at his trial, an approver is entitled  to  pleadthat he has complied with the condition upon which tender ofpardon	was made and if he succeeds in proving that  he	 hascomplied with the conditions upon which the tender was	madehe  is	protected  from	 prosecution  with  respect  to	 alloffences  which appear to have been committed in  connectionwith the matter giving rise to the offence for which  pardonwas tendered.  These three cases really turn on the questionwhether	 the accused had complied with the  conditions	uponwhich the pardon was tendered to him and it was held that behad so complied.(1) I.L.R. 11 All. 79.		(2) A.I.R. 1915 Sind 43,(3)  A.I.R. 1921 All. 234,362In  those circumstances, the trial under s. 339 was held  tobe  bad.  We are not concerned in the present case  with  s.339.	 What	we   have   to	 decide	  is	whether	   apardon under S. 337(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure canbe granted in the case of an offence under s.	  5  of	 theOfficial Secrets Act read with s. 120-B of	  the IndianPenal  Code.   To that there can be only one answer  on	 theterms  of s. 337(1), namely, that no pardon can	 be  grantedfor  an offence of this nature.	 Therefore, as	the  presentproceedings  before the magistrate are only for	 an  offenceunder s. 5 of the Official Secrets Act read with s. 120-B ofthe  Indian  Penal  Code, Mehra cannot	be  examined  as  anapprover in that court.	 There is no force in these  appealsand they are hereby dismissed.Appeals dismissed.