PETITIONER:PANNALAL BINJRAJ	Vs.RESPONDENT:UNION OF INDIA.DATE OF JUDGMENT:21/12/1956BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.JAGANNADHADAS, B.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  397		  1957 SCR  233ACT:Income-tax-Transfer  of cases-Discretion vested in the	Com-missioner  or the Board,if discriminatory and  violative  offundamental  rights-Omnibus wholesale order of transfer,  ifconstitutionally valid-Indian Income-tax Act(XI of 1922), asamended by Amending Act XXVI of 1956, ss. 5(7A), 64(1), (2)-Constitution of India, Arts.I4, 19(1)(g).HEADNOTE:These petitions on behalf of the assessees raised the commonquestion  as  to the constitutionality of s. 5(7-A)  of	 theIndian	Income-tax Act, which was raised but not decided  bythis Court in Bidi Supply Co.  V. The Union of India, (1956)S.  C. R. 267.	Reliance was placed on the  observations  ofBose,  J. in his Minority judgment in that case and  it	 wascontended  that	 the  section  read  with  the	explanation,subsequently   added   to   it	 as   a	  result   of	thatdecision,conferred  arbitrary  and  uncontrolled  powers  oftransfer  on  the Income-tax Commissioner  and	the  CentralBoard  of Revenue, was discriminatory and violative  of	 theprovisions   of	  Art.	14  and	 imposed   an	unreasonablerestriction  on the right to carry on trade or	business  incontravention of Art. 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.  It	 wasfurther	 contended  that  the omnibus  wholesale  orders  oftransfer  made without any reference to any particular	caseor  without any limitation as to time were inconvenient	 anddiscriminatory	and ran counter to the majority judgment  inthat case.  The contention of the Central Board of  Revenue,supported  by affidavits filed on its behalf, was  that	 thesection	   was	 intended   to	  minimize    administrativeinconvenience,	there was no discrimination  after  transferbecause	 the same relevant provisions of the Act as  appliedto  others  similarly  situated,  were	applied	 after	 thetransfer and any resulting inconvenience to the assessee wassought	to be minimised by transferring his case  either  tothe  nearest  area  or,	 where that  was  not  feasible,  byexamining his accounts or evidence, if required by him, at aplace  suited  to  his convenience and	that  the  wholesaleomnibus orders of transfer were covered by the explanation:Held,  that  s.	 5(7A) of the Indian Income-tax	 Act  was  ameasure of administrative convenience, was  constitutionallyvalid  and  did not infringe any of the	 fundamental  rightsconferred  by Arts. 14 and (19)(g) of the  Constitution	 andthe  orders  of	 transfer  in question	were  saved  by	 theexplanation:  to  that section	and.  were  constitutionallyvalid.30234The  right conferred on the assessee by s. 64(1) and (2)  ofthe Act was not an absolute right and must be subject to theprimary object of the Act itself, namely, the assessment andcollection  of income-tax, and where the exigencies  of	 taxcollection  so required, the Commissioner of  Income-tax  orthe Central Board of Revenue had the power under s. 5(7A) ofthe  Act to transfer his case to some other officer  outsidethe  area  where he resided or carried on business  and	 anydifference  in his position created thereby as	compared  tothat  of others similarly situated would be no more  than  aminor  deviation  from the general standard  and  would	 notamount to a denial of equality before the law.This  discretionary power vested in the Authorities  by	 thesection to override the statutory right of the assessee mustbe  distinguished  from	 the  discretion  that	has  to	  beexercised  in respect of a fundamental right  guaranteed  bythe  Constitution and the two tests to judge whether it	 wasdiscriminatory	would  be, (I) whether it  admitted  of	 thepossibility  of any real and substantial discrimination	 and(2) whether it impinged on a fundamental right guaranteed bythe  Constitution and, so judged, the discretion  vested  inthe  Authorities  by  s. 5(7-A) of the Act was	not  at	 alldiscriminatory	nor did the section impose any	unreasonablerestriction on the fundamental -right to carry on trade	  orbusiness.Bidi  Supply  Co. v. The Union of India, (1956)	 S.C.R.	 267M.K.  Gopalan  v.  The State of	 Madhya	 Pradesh,  (1955)  IS.C.R.168  ; The State of West Bengal v. Anwar	Ali  Sarkay,(1952)	S.C.R.	284; Dayaldas Kushiram	v.  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax,  (Central),,  I.L.R.  1940	Bom.  650;  DayaldasKushiram  v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Central, (1943)  11I.T.R. 67; and Wallace Brothers & Co., Ltd. v.	Commissionerof Income-tax, Bombay, Sind & Baluchistan, A.I.R. 1945	F.C.9, discussed.The  explanation  added to the section by the  Amending	 ActXXVI Of 1956, was intended to expand the connotation of the'term  'case' used in the section and included  both  pendingproceedings  as also other proceedings under the  Act  whichmight be commenced in respect of any year after the date  oftransfer  and  as  such	 the orders  in	 question  were	 notunconstitutional or void.The  Income-Tax Authorities, however, must be held bound  bythe  statements	 made  in  their  affidavits  and  where  anassessee could make out a prima facie case of a mala fide ordiscriminatory	exercise of the discretion' vested in  them,the Court will scrutinise the circumstances in the light  ofthose  statements and where necessary quash an abuse of	 thepower under Arts. 226 and 32 Of the Constitution.Ratanlal Gupta v. The District Magistrate of Ganjam,  I.L.R.1951 Cuttack 441 and Brundaban; Chandra Dhir Narendra v.			    235The  State  of	Orissa	(Revenue  Department),	I.L.R.	1952Cuttack 529, referred to.The  Income-tax	 Authorities  should  follow  the  rules  ofnatural	 justice  and, where feasible, give  notice  of	 theintended  transfer to  the assessee concerned in order	thathe  may	 re_ resent his view of the matter  and	 record	 thereasons of the transfer, howeverbriefly, to enable the Court to judge whether such  transferwas mala fide or discriminatory, if and when challenged.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL.   JURISDICTION: Petitions Nos. 97, 97A, 44, 86  to88, 111, 112, 85, 158, 211 to 251 and 225 to 229 of 1956.Under  Article	32  of the Constitution	 of  India  for	 theenforcement of Fundamental Rights'N.   C. Chatterji  A. K. Sen, B. P. Maheshwari and  TarachanBrijmohan Lal, for the petitioners in Petitions Nos. 97	 and97A of 1956.N.  C. Chatterji and V. S. Sawhney, for the  petitioners  inPetitions Nos. 44., 86 to 88, Ill and 112 of 1956.N.   C. Chatterji and D. N. Mukherji, for the petitioners inPetition No. 85 of 1956. Purshottam Tirukumdas and 0. P. Lal, for the petitioners inPetitions Nos. 211 to 215 of 1956.S.   C.	 Isaacs and K. R. Chaudhuri. for the petitioners  inPetitions Nos. 225 to 229 of 1956.Bhagirth Das and M. L. Kapur, for the petitioner in petitionNo. 158 of 1956.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, G. N. Joshi,    PorpusA.  Mehta and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondents	 (Union,  ofIndia,	the Central Board of Revenue and various  Income-taxOfficers in all petitions.)B.  Sen	 and  P.  K. Ghose, for the  State  of	West  Bengal(Respondents  Nos.  2 and 3 in Petitions Nos.211 to  215  of1956).1956.  December 21.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyBHAGWATI   J.-These   petitions	 under	Art.   32   of	 theConstitution raise a common question of law whether s. 5(7A) of the Indian Income-tax Act, hereinafter236called	 the  Act,  is	ultra  vires  the  Constitution	  asinfringing  the fundamental rights enshrined in Art. 14	 andArt. 19 (1) (g).The  facts which led to the filing of the petitions 'nay  beshortly stated.petitions Nos. 97 & 97-A of 1956:The  petitioners are M/s. pannalal Binjrai, Oilmill  owners,merchants  and	commission agents, carrying on	business  atSahibganj  in the district of Santhal Pargans, having  theirbranch at 94 Lower Chitpur Road, Culcutta, petitioner No. 1,and  R. B. Jamuna Das Chowdhury, resident of the same  placeand  erstwhile	karta of the Hindu undivided  family,  whichcarried on business in the name and style of M/S.Pannalal Binjr petetioner No. 2. Before September 28,  1954,they,	being  assessed by the Income-tax  officer,  SpecialCircle, Patna.	On September 28, 1954, the Central Board  ofRevenue	 made  an  order -transferring their  cases  to	 theIncome.tax Officer, Central Circle XI, Calcutta.  On January22, 1955, the Central Board of Revenue transferred the casesof petitioner No. 2 to the Income-tax Officer Central CircleVI,Delhi, and on July 12, 1955, it similarly transferred thecases  of petitioner No. I to the same officer.	  After	 thedates  of such transfer to the Income-tax  Officer,  CentralCircle	VI,  Delhi,  the  said	officer	 instituted  severalproceedings  against them and the petitioners challenged  inthese petitions the validity of the said orders of  transferand all the subsequent proceedings  including the assessmentorders as well as the order levying penalty for	 non-paymentof the income-tax which had been assessed prior thereto,  onthe  ground  that s. 5 (7A) of the Act was ultra  Vires	 theConstitution and all the proceedings which were	 entertainedagainst	 the petitioners by the Income-tax  Officer  Centralcircle	XI Calcutta, and by the Income-tax  Officer  CentralCircle VI, Delhi, were without jurisdiction and void.petitions  Nos. 44 and 85 of 1956The petitioner in Petition No.44/56 is Shrii A. L. sud,	 thesole  proprietor of 14/B.  Amritlal Sud (Construction)'	 whoorginally belonged to Hoshiarpur district in the237State  of  Punjab  but	has since  1948	 been  residing	 andcarrying  on business in Calcutta.  Prior to June 29,  1959,he  had	 been  assessed	 to  income-tax	 by  the  Income-taxOfficer,  Special Survey Circle VII, Calcutta.	On June	 29,1955,  the Central Board of Revenue transferred his case  tothe  Income-tax	 Officer, Special Circle, Ambala,,  and	 thesaid  officer continued the proceedings in  the	 transferredcase  and  also instituted further proceedings	against	 thepetitioner  and assessed him under s. 23 (4) of the Act	 forthe assessment years 1946-47 and 1947-48.  Demands were madeupon the petitioner for payment of the amount of  income-taxthus  assessed whereupon he filed this	petition  impeachingthe  validity of the order of the Central Board 'of  Revenuedated June 29, 1955, and the proceedings entertained by	 theIncome-tax  Officer, Special' Circle, Ambala,on	 the  groundthat s. 5 (7A) of the Act was ultra vires the Constitution.Petition  No.  85/56 was filed by M/s.	Bhagwan	 Das  Sud  &Sons,  Merchants, Hoshiarpur, carrying on business in  rosinand  turpentine there.	Before October 20, 1953,  they	werebeing  assessed by the Income-tax Officer,, Hoshiarpur,	 buton  that date their case was transferred under s. 5 (7A)  ofthe Act by the Commissioner of Income-tax to the  Income-taxOfficer, Special Circle, Ambala.  The said officer continuedthe  said  case and reopened the assessment  for  the  years1944-45	 to  1050-51 and completed the	assessment  for	 theassessment,  years  1947-48,  1950-51  and  1951-52.   Thesepetitioners  also thereupon filed the  petition	 challengingthe   validity	of  the	 order	of  transfer  made  by	 theCommissioner  of  Income-tax on October 20,  1953,  and	 theproceedings  entertained by the Income-tax Officer,  SpecialCircle, Ambala, thereafter, on the same ground -of the ultravires character of s. 5 (7A) of the Act.Shri  A. L. Sud, the petitioner in Petition No. 44/56  is  amember of the Hindu undivided family carrying on business inthe  name and style. of M/s bhagwan Das Sud & Sons  and	 thecases  of  both	 these petitionrs were	transferred  to	 theIncome-tax Officer, Special238Circle, Ambala, as above, by the said respective orders.Petitions Nos. 86, 87, 88, 111, 112 and 158 of 1956:These  petitions  may  be  compendiously  described  as	 theAmritsar  group.   The petitioner in Petition No.  86/56  isSardar	 Gurdial  Singh,  son  of  S.  Narain  Singh.	 Thepetitioner  in Petition No. 87/56 is Dr. Sarmukh Singh,	 sonof  S. Narain Singh.  The petitioner in Petition No.  112156is  S. Ram Singh, soil of S. Narain Singh.  These three	 arebrothers  and  the petitioner in Petition No. 88/56  is	 thefather, S. Narain Singh, son of S. Basdev Singh.  The fatherand  the  three	 sons were the directors  in  the  HindustanEmbroidery  Mills  (Private)  Ltd.,  petitioner	 No.  1	  inPetition  No.  111/56, which is located	 at  Chheharta	nearAmritsar.   All these petitioners were, prior to the  ordersof transfer made by the Commissioner of Income-tax under  s.5(7A) of the Act, being assessed by the Income-tax  Officer,'A'  Ward, Amritsar, but their cases were transferred on  orabout June 29, 1953, from the Income-tax Officer, 'A'  Ward,Amritsar,   to	the  Income-tax	 Officer,  Special   Circle,Amritsar.   These  cases  were -  continued  by	 the  latterofficer and notices under a. 34 of the Act were also  issuedby  him	 against them for the assessment years	1947-48	 to'1951-52.   Each	 one  of  them	filed  a  separate  petitionchallenging the said orders of transfer by the	Commissionerof Income-tax and the proceedings entertained by the Income-tax Office r, Special Circle, Amritsar, against them -on thescore of the unconstitutionality of s. 5 (7A) of the Act.The petitioner in Petition No. 158/56 is one Shri Ram  SaranDas Kapur, the head and karta of the Hindu undivided  familycarrying on business outside Ghee Mandi Gate, Amritsar.	 Hiscase  also whichprior to the order complained  against,	 wasbeing  entertained  by	the Income-tax	Officer,  'F'  Ward,Amritsar,  was transferred on some date in 1954 by an  orderof the Commissioner of Income-tax under s.   5(7A)  of	 theAct  to	 the Income-tax Officer, Special  Circle,  Amritsar.No objection wag taken by the			    239petitioner to this order of transfer until after the assess.ment order was passed against him but he also challenged thevalidity  of the said order of transfer and the	 proceedingsentertained  by	 the  Income-tax  Officer,  Special  Circle,Amritsar,  thereafter,	on  the same grounds  as  the  otherpetitioners.Petitions NOs. 211 to 215 of 1956:These  petitions may be described as the  Sriram  Jhabarmullgroup.	Though ' separately filed, the petitioner in each ofthem  is the same individuals Nandram Agarwalla, who is	 thesole proprietor Of a business which he carries on under	 thename  and style of I Sriram Jhabarmull'.  It is a  business,inter  alia,  of  import  and  export  of  piece-goods'	  ascommission  agents,  and  dealers  in  raw  wool  and  othermaterials.  The principal place of business is at Kalimpong,in the district of Darjeeling, though there is also a branchat Calcutta.  These petitions concern the assessment of	 thepetitioner  to income-tax for the respective years  1944-45,1945-46, 1946-47, 1947-48 and 1948-49.	Prior to the  ordersof the Commissioner of Income-tax under s. 5(7A) of the	 Actcomplained against, the petitioner was being assessed by theIncome-tax  Officer,  Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling.  On  March  5,1946, the cases of the petitioner were transferred from	 theIncome-tax  Officer, Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling, to the  Income-tax  Officer,  Central Circle 1, Calcutta, and a  couple  ofmonths thereafter they were again transferred to the Income-tax Officer, Central Circle IV, Calcutta.  On June 8,  1946,there  was  a further transfer assigning the  cases  to	 theIncome-tax Officer, Central Circle 1, Calcutta, and on	July27, 1946, orders were passed by the Commissioner of  Income-tax Central, Calcutta, under s. 5(7A) transferring the casesof the petitioner to the Income-tax Officer, Central  CircleIV,  Calcutta.	 These are the orders which  are  complainedagainst	 as  unconstitutional  and  void  invalidating	 theproceedings which were continued and subsequently institutedby  the	 Income-tax Officer, Central  Circle  IV,  Calcutta,against	   the	  petitioner   on   the	  score	   of	 theunconstitutionality  of	 s.  5(7A) of the Act.	 It  may  benoted,	however	 that  these orders were all  prior  to	 theConstitution and240having	been  made  on	July 27,  1946,	 as  aforesaid	werefollowed  up by completed assessment proceedings in  respectof   the   said	 respective  years  and	  also	 certificateproceedings  under S. 46(2) of the Act.	 There were  furtherorders	dated December 15, 1947, and sometime in  September,1948,  transferring  the cases of the  petitioner  from	 theIncome-tax  Officer,  Central Circle IV,  Calcutta,  to	 theIncome-tax  Officer,  Central Circle 1, Calcutta,  and	backfrom  him  to  the  Income-tax	Officer,  Central  Circle,IVCalcutta.    These,  however,  are  not	 material  for	 ourpurposes,  the only order challenged being the order of	 theCommissioner of Income-tax Central, Calcutta. dated July 27,1946, which was passed under s. 5(7A) of the Act.Petitions Nos. 225 to 229 of 1956:These  Petitions may be classed as the Raichur group.	Theyconcern	 the assessment for the respective assessment  years1950-5l,   1951-52,  1952-53,  1953-54	and  1954-55.	 Thepetitioner  in	each  of them is the  same  individual,	 oneKalloor	 Siddannal  who resides and carries on	business  inRaichur	 in the State of Hyderabad as commission  agent	 anddistributor of agricultural products.  Income-tax was  firstimposed	 in the Hyderabad State in 1946 by a special Act  ofthe  Legislature and the petitioner was assessed  under	 theHyderabad  Income-tax  Act  by	the  Additional	  Income-taxOfficer, Raichur, for the assessment years 1948-49 and 1949-50.   As from April 1, 195o, the Indian Income-tax  Act	 wasapplied to Hyderabad but the Additional Income-tax  Officer,Raichur,  continued to assess the petitioner.  The cases  inrespect of -the assessment years 1950-51, 1951-52 and  1952-53  were  pending before that officer and  proceedings	weretaken  in connection with the -assessment for  those  years.On  December 21, 1953, however, the Commissioner of  Income-tax Hyderabad, issued a notification under S. 5(7)  orderingthat  the case of the petitioner should be transferred	fromthe  Additional income-tax Officer, Raichur, to the  Income-tax Officer, Special Circle, Hyderabad.	 The latter  officercontinued  the	assessment proceedings	and  issued  noticesunder  s.  22(.4) of the Act on July 1,	 1954,	November  2,1954, November 30,1954,241December  19,  1954, and March 11, 1955, in respect  of	 thesaid  years of assessment.  Assessments for the	 said  yearswere  made  on March 21, 1955, and on April  24,  1955,	 thepetitioner  made  an application under s. 27 of the  Act  toreopen	the  assessment for the year 1950-51 as	 on  defaultunder  s.  23  (4) of the Act.	It  appears,  however,	thatshortly before May 19, 1955, the Commissioner of Income-tax,Hyderabad,  made  another order under s. 5 (7A)	 and  s.  64(5)(b)	of  the	 Act  transferring  all	 the  cases  of	 thepetitioner   to	 the  main  Income-tax	 Officer,   Raichur.Curiously enough, the petitioner challenged both the  ordersone dated December 21, 1953, and the other made sometime  inMay,  1955, under s. 5 (7A) of the Act and  the	 proceedingscontinued   and	 instituted  by	 the   respective   officersthereunder  as unconstitutional and void on the ground	thats.  5  (7A)  was ultra vires the  Constitution	even  thoughultimately  he	was being assessed by  the  main  Income-taxOfficer, Raichur, under the latter order.This  is  the common question in regard to the	ultra  virescharacter  of  s. 5 (7A) of the Act which is raised  in	 allthese  petitions, though in regard to each group  there	 areseveral questions of fact involving the consideration of thediscriminatory	character  of  the  specific  orders  passedtherein	 which	we  shall  deal	 with  hereafter  in   theirappropriate places.Section 5 (7A) of the Act runs as under:"  5 (7A) : The Commissioner of Income-tax may transfer	 anyease  from  one	 Income-tax Officer subordinate	 to  him  toanother,  and the Central Board of Revenue may transfer	 anycase  from  any	 one Income-tax Officer	 to  another.	Suchtransfer  may be made at any 'stage of the proceedings,	 andshall not render necessary the reissue of any notice alreadyissued	by  the	 Income-tax Officer from whom  the  case  istransferred."This sub-section was inserted by s. 3 of the Indian  Income-tax  Amendment Act, 1940 (XL of 1940) which was passed as  aresult of the decision of the Bombay High Court in  DayaldasKushiram v. Commissioner of Income-tax, (Central)(1)  I.L.R. 194o Bom. 650,31242By the Indian Income-tax Amendment Act, 1956 (XXVI of  1956)an explanation was added to s. 5(7A) in the terms  followingas a result of the decision of this Court in Bidi Supply Co.v- The Union of India(1):" Explanation :-In this sub-section, I case' in relation  toany person whose name is specified in the order of  transfermeans all proceedings under this Act in respect of any	yearwhich  may  be	pending on the date of	the  transfer,,	 andincludes  all  proceedings  under  this	 Act  which  may  becommenced  after the date of the transfer in respect of	 anyyear."Section 5(7A) together with the explanation thus falls to beconsidered by us in these petitions.The  argument  on behalf of the petitioners is that  a.	 64,sub-ss.	 (1) and (2) of the Act confer upon the	 assessee  avaluable  right	 and  he  is entitled  to  tell	 the  taxingauthorities  that he shall not be called upon to  attend  atdifferent places and thus upset his business.  Section 5(7A)invests the Commissioner of Income-tax and the Central Boardof  Revenue with naked and arbitrary power to  transfer	 anycase from any one Income-tax Officer to another without	 anylimitation  in point of time, a power which is unguided	 anduncontrolled  and is discriminatory in its nature and it  isopen to the Commissioner of Income-tax or the Central  Boardof  Revenue to pick out the case of one assessee from  thoseof others in a like situation and transfer the same from oneState  to  another  or from one end of India  to  the  otherwithout	 'specifying  any  object  and	without	 giving	 anyreason,	  thus	 subjecting  the  particular   assessee	  todiscriminatory	 treatment  whereas  the   other   assesseessimilarly situated with him would continue to be assessed atthe  places where they reside or carry on business under  s.64  (1)	 and (2) of the Act.  Section 64(5)  which  provideswith  retrospective effect that the provisions of s. 64	 (1)and (2) shall not apply, inter alia, where an order has beenmade  under  s. 5(7A) was inserted  simultaneously  with  s.5(7A) and would not have the effect of depriving the(1)  [1956] S.C.R. 267.			    243assessee  of the valuable right conferred upon him under  s.64 (1) and (2) unless and until s. 5(7A) was intra vires buts.  5(7A),  as	stated above, being  discriminatory  in	 itsnature	is ultra vires the Constitution and cannot  save  s.64(5)  which  is merely consequential.	 The  discriminationinvolved  in  s.  5(7A) is  substantial	 in  character	and,therefore, infringes the fundamental right enshrined,in Art.14  of the Constitution.  It also infringes Art. 19 (1)	 (g)in  so far as it imposes an unreasonable restriction on	 thefundamental  right  to	carry on  trade	 or  business  (VideHimmatlal Harilal Mehta v. The State of Madhya Pradesh(1)).The very same question as regards the unconstitutionality ofs.  5(7A)  of the Act had come up for decision	before	thisCourt in Bidi Supply Co. v. The Union of India (supra).	 Thecase  of  the  assessee there had been	transferred  by	 theCentral Board of Revenue under s. 5(7A) of the get from	 theIncome-tax  Officer, District 111, Calcutta, to the  Income-tax  Officer,  Special Circle, Ranchi.	The  -order  was  anomnibus	 wholesale  order of transfer expressed	 in  generalterms without any reference to any particular case and with-out any limitation as to time and was challenged as void  onthe ground that s. 5(7A) under which it had been passed	 wasunconstitutional.  This Court, by a majority judgment, afterdiscussing  the general principles underlying Art.  14,	 didnot adjudicate upon that question, observing at p. 276:"We  do not consider it necessary, for the purpose  of	thiscase, to pause to consider whether the constitutionality  ofSub-section.(7A)  of  section  5 can  be  Supported  on	 the-principle  of	any reasonable classification laid  down  bythis  Court or whether the Act lays down any  principle	 forguiding	 or  regulating the exercise of	 discretion  by	 theCommissioner or Board of Revenue or whether the	 sub-sectionconfers an unguided and arbitrary power on those authoritiesto  pick  and  choose individual  assessee  and	 place	thatassessee   at  a  disadvantage	in  comparison	with   otherassessees. it is enough for the purpose of this case to	 saythat   the   omnibus  order  made  in  this   case,   is-notcontemplated(I)  [1954] S.C.R. 1122.244or  sanctioned by sub-section (7A) and that, therefore,	 thepetitioner   is	 still	entitled  to  the  benefit  of	 theprovisions  of sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 64.	 Allassessees are entitled to the benefit of those pro.  visionsexcept	where  a particular case or cases  of  a  particularassessee   for	a  particular  year  or	 years	is  or	 aretransferred  under sub-section (7A) of section	5,  assumingthat  section to be valid and if a particular case or  casesis  or	are  transferred his right under  section  64  stillremains as regards his other case or cases."The majority judgment then proceeded to consider the  effectof  such an omnibus order unlimited in point of time on	 therights of the assessee and further observed in that  contextat p. 277:"   This  order	 is  calculated	 to   inflict	considerableinconvenience  and harassment on the petitioner.  Its  booksof  account will have to be produced before  the  Income-taxOfficer,  Special Circle, Ranchi-a place hundreds  of  milesfrom Calcutta, which is its place of business.	Its partnersor  principal  officers will have to be away from  the	headoffice	for  a	considerable  period  neglecting  the	mainbusiness of the firm.  There may be no suitable place  wherethey can put up during that period.  There will certainly beextra  expenditure  to be incurred by it by way	 of  railwayfare, freight and hotel expenses.  Therefore the reality  ofthe discrimination cannot be gainsaid.	In the circumstancesthis  substantial discrimination has been inflicted  on	 thepetitioner by an executive fiat which is not founded on	 anylaw  and  no  question	of  reasonable	classification	 forpurposes  of legislation can arise.  Here "the State"  whichincludes  its Income-tax department has by an illegal  orderdenied	to the petitioner, as compared with other Bidi	mer-chants who are similarly situate, equality before the law orthe  equal  protection of the laws and	the  petitioner	 canlegitimately  complain of an infraction of  his	 fundamentalright under Article 14 of the Constitution."The question as to the constitutionality of s. 5 (7A) of theAct was thus left open and the decision turned merely on theconstruction of the impugned order.			    245Learned	  counsel   for	 the  petitioners,   however,	laysparticular  stress on the observations of Bose, J.,  in	 theminority judgment which he delivered in that case whereby heheld  that  ss.	 5  (7A) and 64 (5)  (b)  of  the  Act	werethemselves  ultra vires Art. 14 of the Constitution and	 notmerely	the  order  of the Central Board  of  Revenue.	 Thelearned	 Judge	referred to a passage from the	judgment  ofFazl  Ali,  J.,	 in The State of West Bengal  v.  Anwar	 AliSarkar(1) and also pointed out the decision of this Court inM/S.  Dwarka  Prasad  Laxmi Narain v.  The  State  of  UttarPradesh and Two Others(2) and observed:"  What	 is  the position here?	 There	is  no	hearing,  noreasons	 are recorded: just peremptory	orders	transferringthe case from one place to another without any warning;	 andthe  power given by the Act is to transfer from one  end  ofIndia  to  the	other; nor is that power  unused.   We	havebefore	us in this Court a case pending in which a  transferhas  been ordered from Calcutta in West Bengal to Ambala  inthe Punjab." (p. 283)"  If the Legislature itself had done here what the  CentralBoard of Revenue has done and had passed an Act in the	baldterms  of the order made here transferring the case of	thispetitioner, picked out from others in a like situation, fromone State to another, or from one end of India to the other,without specifying any object and without giving any reason,it would, in my judgment, have been bad.  I am unable to seehow  the position is bettered because the Central  Board  ofRevenue has done this and not Parliament." (p. 284-5)" In my opinion, the power of transfer can only be conferredif  it	is hedged round with  reasonable  restrictions,	 theabsence	 or existence of which can in the last	instance  bedetermined by the courts; and the exercise of the power mustbe in conformity with the rules of natural justice, that  isto  say,  the parties affected must be heard  when  that  isreasonably  possible, and the reasons for the order must  bereduced,  however briefly, to writing so that men  may	knowthat(1) [1952]  S. C. R. 284, 309-310.(2) [1954] S. C. R. 803.246the  powers  conferred on these	 quasi-judicial	 bodies	 arebeing justly and properly exercised." (p. 287)The answer furnished on behalf of the State to this argumentis fourfold:(i)that the provision contained in s. 5 (7A) of the Act is ameasure	 of administrative convenience enacted with a  view-to more conveniently and effectively deal with the cases  ofthe assessees where the Commissioner of Income-tax considersit  necessary  or desirable to transfer any  case  from	 oneIncome-tax  Officer  subordinate to him to  another  or	 theCentral Board of Revenue similarly considers it necessary ordesirable  to  transfer	 any case from	any  one  Income-taxOfficer	 to another.  The real object with which s.  5	(7A)was  inserted by the Indian Income-tax Amendment  Act,	1940(XL of 1940), has been thus set out in the affidavit of ShriV. Gouri Shankar, Under Secretary, Central Board of Revenue,dated  November	 19, 1956, which is the pattern of  all	 theaffidavits filed on behalf of the State in these petitions:"  4......  I  say that the provisions of  s.  5  (7A)	wereinserted  by the Income-tax Amendment Act, XL of 1940,	withthe  object of minimising certain  procedural  difficulties.Before	this  amendment	 was passed there  was	no  specificprovision  in  the  Act for transferring  a  case  from	 oneIncome-tax  Officer  to	 -another  except  by  a  long	 andcircuitous course even at the request of the assessees.	  Inorder therefore to be able to transfer the case from one  1.T.  0.	to  another either because of  the  request  of	 theassessee  or  for  dealing  with  cases	 involving   specialfeatures  such	as cases of assessees  involving  widespreadactivities   and   large  ramifications	  or   inter-relatedtransactions, power to transfer cases was conferred upon theCentral Board of Revenue and the Commissioner of  Income-taxas the case may be.  I say that the provisions of s. 5	(7A)ate  thus  administrative in  character........(ii)that  the  assessee whose case is  thus  transferred  isnot subjected to any discriminatory procedure in the  matterof his assessment.  The Income-tax Officer to whom his	caseis transferred deals with it under the same procedure  whichis laid down in the relevant			    247provisions  of	the  Act.  The decision	 of  the  Income-taxOfficer is subject to appeal before the Appellate  AssistantCommissioner  and  the	assessee has the  further  right  toappeal to the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal and to  approachthe High Court and ultimately the Supreme Court, as providedin the Act.  All assessees, whether they are assessed by theIncome-tax Officer of the area where they reside or carry onbusiness or their cases are transferred from one  Income-taxOfficer	 to another, are subject to the same  procedure	 andare entitled to the same rights and privileges in the matterof redress of their grievances, if any, and there is no dis-crimination whatever between assessees and assessees;(iii)that  the	right, if any, conferred upon  the  assesseeunder s. 64 (1) and (2) of the Act is not an absolute  rightbut is circumscribed by the exigencies of tax collection andcan  be	 negatived  as	it  has	 been  in  cases  where	 theCommissioner of Income-tax or the Central Board of  Revenue,as  the	 case  may be, think it necessary  or  desirable  totransfer  his  case from one Income-tax Officer	 to  anotherunder  s.  5  (7A)  of the Act	having	regard	to  all	 thecircumstances of the case.  The argument of inconvenience isthus sought to be met in the same affidavit:" 5. 1 further say that as a result of any transfer that maybe  made  under	 the provisions of s. 5	 (7A)  there  is  nodiscriminatory	treatment with regard to the  procedure	 andthat  no  privileges  and  rights which	 are  given  to	 theassessees  by the Income-tax Act are taken away nor  is	 theassessee  exposed  to  any  increased  prejudice,   punitaryconsequences or differential treatment.	 I say that in caseswhere  transfers under this section are made otherwise	thanon request from assessees, the convenience of the  assesseesis taken into consideration by placing the case in the handsof an Income-tax Officer who is nearest to the area where itwill  be  convenient  for the assessee	to  attend.   If  onaccount	 of administrative exigencies this is  not  possibleand  the assessee requests that the examination of  accountsor  evidence to be taken should be in a place convenient  tohim, the I.T.O. complies with the request248of  the	 assessee  and	holds  the  hearing  at	 the   placerequested."Even  if there be a difference between assessees who  resideor carry on business in a particular area by reason of	suchtransfers  the	difference is not material. -It	 is  only  aminor deviation from a general standard and does not  amountto a denial of equal rights;(iv)that  the power which is thus vested is a  discretionarypower  and is not necessarily discriminatory in	 its  natureand  that abuse of power is not to be easily  assumed  wherediscretion  is vested in such high officials of	 the  State.Even if abuse of power may sometimes occur, the validity  ofthe   provision	  cannot  be  contested	 because   of	suchapprehension.  What may be struck down in such cases is	 notthe  provision	itself but  the	 discriminatory	 applicationthereof.The petitioners rejoin by relying upon the following passagefrom  the  judgment of Fazl Ali, J., in The  State  Of	WestBengal	v. Anwar Ali Sarkar, (Supra), which was referred  toby Bose, J., in his minority judgment in Bidi Supply Co.  v.The Union of India, (Supra), at page 281:" It was suggested that the reply to this query is that	 theAct  itself being general and applicable to all persons	 andto all offenses, cannot be Said to discriminate in favour ofor  against  any particular case or classes  of	 persons  orcases, and if any charge of discrimination can be leveled atall,  it  can  be  levelled only  against  the	act  of	 theexecutive  authority  if the Act is misused.  This  kind  ofargument  however  does	 not  appear  to  me  to  solve	 thedifficulty.   The result of accepting it would be that	evenwhere discrimination is quite evident  one cannot  challengethe  Act simply because it Is couched in general terms;	 andone cannot also challenge the act of the executive authoritywhose  duty  it	 is  to administer  the	 Act,  because	thatauthority  will say:-I am not to blame as I am acting  underthe  Act.   It	is clear that if the  argument	were  to  be,accepted, article 14 could be easily defeated.	 I think thefallacy	 of the argument lies in overlooking the  fact	thatthe I insidious discrimination complained of is incorporatedin the Act itself', it being so drafted			    249that whenever any discrimination is made such discriminationwould be ultimately traceable to it.The  pivot of the whole argument of the petitioners  is	 theprovisions  contained in s. 64(1) and (2) of the  Act  whichprescribe the place of assessment.  They are:-"  64.	(1)  Where  an	assessee  carries  on  a   business,profession or vocation at any place, he shall be assessed bythe  Income-tax Officer- of the area in which that place  issituate	 or, where the business, profession or	vocation  iscarried	 on  in	 more places than  one,	 by  the  Income-taxOfficer	 of  the area in which the principal  place  of	 hisbusiness, profession or vocation is situate.(2)In all other cases, an assessee shall be assessed by	 theIncome-tax Officer of the area in which he resides."These provisions were construed by the Bombay High Court  inDayaldas  Kushiram  v. Commissioner  Income-tax,  (Central),(supra), and Beaumont, C.J., observed at p. 657:"  In my opinion section 64 was intended to ensure  that  asfar  as practicable an assessee should be assessed  locally,and  the  area to which an Income-tax Officer  is  appointedmust,  so  far as the 'exigencies of tax  collection  allow,bear  some  reasonable	relation  to  the  place  where	 theassessee carries on business or resides."Kania, J., as he then was, went a step further and stated atp. 660:"A  plain  reading  of the section shows that  the  same  isimperative  in	terms.	 It also gives	to  the	 assessee  avaluable   right.   He	is  entitled  to  tell	the   taxingauthorities  that he shall not be called upon to  attend  atdifferent places and thus upset his business."The  learned  Judges  there  appear  to	 have  treated	 theprovisions  of s. 64(1) and (2) more as a question of  rightthan as a matter of convenience only.  If there were thus  aright  conferred upon the assessee by the provisions  of  s.64(1)  and  (2) of the Act and that right  continues  to  beenjoyed. by all the assessees except the32250assessee whose case is transferred under s. 5(7A) of the Actto  another  Income-tax Officer outside the  area  where  heresides or carries on business, the assessee can urge  that,as compared with those other assessees, he is  discriminatedagainst	 and is subjected to inconvenience  and	 harassment.It  is,	 therefore, necessary to consider whether  any	suchright is conferred upon the assessee by s. 64(1) and (2)  ofthe Act.Prima  facie  it would appear that an assessee	is  entitledunder  those  provisions to be assessed	 by  the  Income-taxOfficer of the particular area where he ,resides or  carrieson  business.  Even where a question arises as to the  placeof  assessment	such  question	is  under  s.  64(3)  to  bedetermined   by	 the  Commissioner  or	 the   Commissionersconcerned  if the question is between places in more  Statesthan  one or by the Central Board of Revenue if	 the  latterare,  not  in  agreement  and  the  assessee  is  given	  anopportunity  of	 representing  his  views  before  any	suchquestion  is determined.  This provision also goes  to	showthat   the   convenience  of  the  assessee  is	  the	mainconsideration in determining the place of assessment.	Evenso  the	 exigencies  of	 tax  collection  have	got  to	  beconsidered  and	 the primary object of the  Act,  viz.,	 theassessment  of	income-tax,  has got to	 be  achieved.	 Thehierarchy  of income-tax authorities which is set  up  underChapter	 11  of the Act has been so set up with	 a  view  toassess	the  proper income-tax payable by the  assessee	 andwhether the one or the other of the authorities will proceedto assess a particular assessee has got to be determined notonly  having regard to the convenience of the  assessee	 butalso  the exigencies of tax collection.	 In order to  assessthe-tax	 payable  by  an  assessee  more  conveniently	 andefficiently  it may be necessary to have him assessed by  anIncome-tax  Officer of an area other than the one in  which,he  resides  or	 carries on business.  It may  be  that	 thenature	and  volume of his business operations are  such  asrequire investigation into his affairs in a place other thanthe  one where he resides or carries on business or that  heis so, connected with various other individuals or organiza-tions in the way of his earning his income as to render			    251such  extra-tertitorial investigation necessary:  before  hemay  be properly assessed.  These are but instances  of	 thevarious situations which may arise wherein it may be thoughtnecessary by the Income-tax authorities to transfer his casefrom the Income-tax, Officer of the area in which he residesor  carries  on	 business  to,	another	 Income-tax  Officerwhether	 functioning in the same State or beyond  it.	Thisaspect of the question wag emphasized by Beaumont, C.J.,  inDayaldas Kushiram v. Commissioner of Income-tax,  (Central),(supra),  at page 146, when he used the expression " as	 faras practicable " in connection with the assessee's right  tobe  assessed  locally  and  the	 expression  "	so  far	  asexigencies of tax collection allow " in connection with	 theappointment  of	 the Income-tax Officer to  assess  the	 taxpayable	 by the particular assessee.  In the later  case  ofDayaldas    Kushiram   v.   Commissioner   of	 Income-tax,(Central)(1), Beaumont, C.J., expressed himself as follows:"  The	Income-tax  Act	 does not  determine  the  place  ofassessment.  What it does is to determine the Officer who isto  have  power to assess and in some cases it	does  so  byreference  to locality but I apprehend that an appeal  wouldbe not against an order of the Commissioner as to the  placeof  assessment, but against the order of assessment  of	 theIncome-tax, Officer,"thus  stating  in effect that this section does not  give  aright  to the assessee to have his assessment, at  a  parti-cular place but determines the Income-tax Officer who is  tohave power to assess him.This  aspect was further emphasized by the Federal Court  inWallace	 Brothers  &  Co. v.  Commissioner  of,	 Income-tax,Bombay, Sind & Baluchistan (2), where Spens, C.J., observed:Clause	(3)  of s. 64 provides that any question as  to	 theplace of assessment shall be determined' by the Commissioneror  by the Central Board of Revenue Proviso 3 to the  clauseenacts	that  if  the  place -of  assessment  is  called  inquestion by the assessee, the Income-tax Officer -shall,  ifnot satisfied, with the(1) [1943] 11 I.T.R.  67, 101.(2) A.I.R. 1945 F.C. 9,13.252correctness of the claim, refer the matter for determinationunder  this  sub-section before assessment is  made.   Theseprovisions  clearly indicate that the matter is more one  ofadministrative convenience than of jurisdiction and that  inany event it is not one for adjudication by the Court."It may be noted, however, that in the passage at page 276 ofthe  majority  judgment in Bidi Supply Co. v. The  Union  ofIndia (supra), this court regarded the benefit conferred  onthe assessee by these provisions of a. 64(1) and (2) of	 theAct as a right and it is, too late in the day for us to	 saythat no such right to be assessed by the Income-tax  Officerof  the particular area, where he resides or carries on	 hisbusiness is conferred on the assessee.	This right, however,according to the authorities above referred to, is hedged inwith  the limitation that it has to yield to the  exigenciesof tax collection.The  position, therefore, is that the determination of	the,question  whether  a particular	 Income-tax  Officer  shouldassess	the  case  of  the  assessee  depends  on  (1)	 theconvenience of the assessee as posited in s. 64 (1) and	 (2)of the Act, and (2) the exigencies of tax collection and  itwould  be  open to -the Commissioner of Income-tax  and	 theCentral	 Board	of Revenue who are the highest	amongst	 theIncome-tax.  Authorities under the Act to transfer the	caseof a particular assessee from the Income-tax Officer of	 thearea  within which he resides or carries on business to	 anyother Income-tax Officer if the exigencies of tax collectionwarrant the same.It  is further to be noted that the infringement of  such  aright  by the order of transfer, under s. 5 (7A) of the	 Actis not a material infringement.	 It is only a deviation of aminor  character  from	the general standard  and  does	 notnecessarily involve a denial of equal rights for the  simplereason that even after such transfer the case is dealt	withunder the normal procedure which is prescribed in the  -Act.The  production and investigation of the books	of  account,the  enquiries to be made by the Income-tax Officer and	 thewhole  of  the	procedure as  to  assessment  including	 thefurther			    253appeals	 after	the  assessment is  made  by  the  IncometaxOfficer	 are  the same in a transferred case  as  in  otherswhich  remain  with the Income-tax Officer of  the  area  inwhich the other assesees reside or carry on business.  Thereis  thus  no  differential treatment and no  scope  for	 theargument  that	the  particular	 assessee  is  discriminatedagainst with reference to others similarly situated.  It wasobserved by this Court in,M.   K. Gopalan v. The State of Madhya Pradesh(1):" In support of the objection raised under article 14 of theConstitution,  reliance	 is placed on the decision  of	thisCourt  in Anwar Ali Sarkar's case.  That decision,  however,applies	 only  to  a  case where  on  the  allotment  of  anindividual case to a special Court authorised to conduct thetrial  -by  a  procedure substantially	different  from	 thenormal	procedure, discrimination arises as between  personswho  have committed similar offences, by one or more out  ofthem  being  subjected to a procedure, which  is  materiallydifferent  from	 the normal procedure and  prejudicing	themthereby.   In  the pre-' sent case, the	 Special  Magistrateunder  s. 14 of the Criminal Procedure Code has to try-	 thecase   entirely	  under	 the  normal  procedure,   and	 'nodiscrimination	of the kind contemplated by the decision  inAnwar  Ali  Sarkar'd case and the other cases  following  itarises here.  A law vesting discretion in an authority undersuch  circumstances cannot be said to be  discriminatory  assuch,  and  is	therefore  not hit  by	article	 14  of	 theConstitution.	There  is, therefore, no substance  in	thiscontention."To a similar effect were the observations of Mukherjea,	 J.,as  he	then was, in The State of West Bengal v.  Anwar	 AliSarkar, (supra), at p. 325:"I  agree with the Attorney-General that if the	 differencesare not material, there may not be any discrimination in theproper	sense  of  the word and minor  deviations  from	 thegeneral	 standard  might  not  amount  to  denial  of  equalrights."It  is pointed out that as s. 64 (5) stands at present,	 theprovisions of s. 64 (1) and (2) do not apply and are(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 168, I71.254deemed	never  at any time to have applied  to	an  assesseewhere, in consequence of any transfer made under s. 5  (7A),a  particular Income-tax Officer has been charged  with	 thefunction  of  assessing that assessee. section	64  (5)	 wasincorporated  by the Income-tax Law Amendment Act, 1940	 (XLof  1940) simultaneously with s. 5 (7A).  It is'  therefore,urged  that an assesse whose case has been thus	 transferredhas  no	 right under s. 64 (1) and (2) and  those  assesseesalone  who do not come within the purview of s. 64  (5)	 canhave  the  benefit  of s. 64 (1) and  (2).   This  argument,however,  ignores the fact that s. 5 (7A) is the very  basisof the enactment of the relevant provision in s. 64 (5)	 andif   a.	 5  (7A)  cannot  stand	 by  virtue  of	 its   beingdiscriminatory in character, the relevant portion of s.	  64(5) also must fall with it.It   is	 then  contended  that	a.  5  (7A)  is	 in   itselfdiscriminatory	and violative of the fundamental  right	 en-shrined	 in  Art.  14.	The power which	 is  vested  in	 theCommissioner of Income-tax and the Central Board of  Revenueis a naked and arbitrary power unguided and uncontrolled  byany  rules.   No rules have been framed	 and  no  directionsgiven  which would regulate or guide their discretion or  onthe basis of which such transfers can be made and the  wholematter is left to the unrestrained will of the	Commissionerof Income-tax or the Central Board of Revenue without  therebeing anything which could ensure a proper execution of	 thepower  or operate as a check upon the injustice	 that  mightresult from the improper execution of the same.	 To use	 thewords  of  Mr. Justice Matthews in the case of	Yick  Wo  v.Hopkins(1):"......	 when we remember that this action or nonaction	 mayproceed	 from  enmity or prejudice, from  partisan  zeal  oranimosity, from favoritism and other improper influences andmotives easy of concealment and difficult to be detected andexposed,  it becomes unnecessary to suggest or comment	uponthe injustice capable of being wrought under cover of such apower,	for that becomes apparent to every one who gives  tothe subject a moment's consideration."118 U. S. 356, 373; 30 L. Ed. 220, 227.			    255In  other  words,  "  it is not	 a  question  of  an  uncon-stitutional  administration of a statute otherwise valid  onits  face but here the unconstitutionality is writ large  onthe  face of the statute itself " (Per Das, J., as  he	thenwas,  in  The  State of West Bengal v.	Anwar  Ali,  Sarkar,(supra) at p. 346).It  has to be remembered that the purpose of the Act  is  tolevy income-tax, assess and collect the same.  The  preambleof  the	 Act  does not say so in terms it being	 an  Act  toconsolidate  and  amend the law relating to  income-tax	 andsuper-tax but that is the purpose of the Act as disclosed inthe preamble of the First Indian Income-tax Act of 1886 (ActII of 1886).  It follows, therefore, that all the provisionscontained  in the Act have been designed with the object  ofachieving that purpose.	 There is in the first instance, thecharge	of  income-tax.	  Then we find set  up	the  variousauthorities  in	 the hierarchy who are	entrusted  with	 thefunction  of assessing the income-tax, the Central Board  ofRevenue	 being	at  the apex.  There is	 also  an  AppellateTribunal  which is established for hearing  appeals  againstthe  decisions	of the	Appellate  Assistant  Commissioners.Then follow the provisions in regard to taxable income, modeof  assessment	and  cognate  provisions.   The	  Income-taxOfficers  are  invested	 with the  duty'  of  assessing	 theincome-tax  of	the assessees in the  first  instance.	 TheAssistant  Commissioners  of Income-tax, are  the  appellateauthorities  over the decisions of the	Income-tax  Officersand the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal is the final appellateauthority barring of course references under s. 66(1) of theAct   to   the	High  Court  on	 questions  of	 law.	 TheCommissioners of Income-tax and the Central Board of Revenueare  mainly administrative authorities over  the  Income-taxOfficers  and the Assistant Commissioners of Income-tax	 andthey  are to distribute and control the work to be  done  bythese authorities.  All officers and persons employed in theexecution  of the Act are to observe and follow	 the  ordersinstructions  and  directions  of  the.	  Central  Board  ofRevenue which is the highest authority in the hierarchy and,even though normally in accordance256with  the  provisions  of  s. 64 (1) and  (2)  the  work  ofassessment  is to be done by the Income-tax Officers of	 thearea within which the assessees reside or carry on business,power is given by s. 5(7A) to the Commissioner of Income-taxto transfer any case from one Income-tax Officer subordinateto  him	 to another and to the Central Board of	 Revenue  totransfer  any  case  from  any	one  Income-tax	 Officer  toanother.  This is the administrative machinery which is	 setup  for	 assessing the incomes of the  assessees  which	 arechargeable to income-tax.  There is, therefore, considerableforce  in the contention which has been urged on  behalf  ofthe  State that s. 5(7A) is a provision	 for  administrativeconvenience.Nevertheless  this power which is given to the	Commissionerof  Income-tax	and the Central Board of Revenue has  to  beexercised in a manner which is not discriminatory.  No rulesor  directions	having	been  laid down	 in  regard  to	 theexercise of that power in particular cases, the	 appropriateauthority  has	to determine what are the  proper  cases  inwhich  such power should be exercised having regard  to	 theobject of the Act and the ends to be achieved.	The cases ofthe  assessees which come for assessment before the  income-tax  authorities  are of various types and no  one  case  issimilar	 to another. there are complications  introduced  bythe  very nature of the business which is carried on by	 theassessees  and	there  may be,	in  particular	cases,	suchwidespread  activities	and large  ramifications  or  inter-related transactions as might require for the convenient andefficient  assessment  of income-tax the  transfer  of	suchcases from one Income-tax Officer to another.  In such casesthe  Commissioner  of  Income-tax or the  Central  Board  ofRevenue, as the case may be, has to exercise its  discretionwith  due regard to the exigencies of tax collection.	Eventhough there may be a common attribute between the  assesseswhose  case  is	 thus transferred  and	the  assessees;	 whocontinue  to  be assessed by the Income-tax Officer  of	 thearea  within  which they reside or carry  on  business,	 theother attributes would not be common.  One assessee may			    257have  such widespread activities and ramifications as  wouldrequire	 his  case  to be transferred  from  the  Income-taxOfficer	 of the particular area to an Income-tax Officer  ofanother	 area in the same State or in another  State,  whichmay be called " X ". Another assessee, though belonging to asimilar	 category may be more conveniently  and	 efficientlyassessed  in another area whether situated within the  Stateor  without it, called " Y ". The considerations which	willweigh  with  the Commissioner of Income-tax or	the  CentralBoard of Revenue in transferring the cases of such  assesseeeither to the area " X " or the area " Y " will depend	uponthe  particular circumstances of each case and no  hard	 andfast  rule  can	 be laid down for  determining	whether	 theparticular  case  should , be transferred at 'all or  to  anIncome-tax  Officer of a particular area.   Such  discretionwould  necessarily  have  to  be  vested  in  the  authorityconcerned  and	merely	because the  case  of  a  particularassessee  is transferred from the Income-tax Officer  of  anarea  within  which  he resides or carries  on	business  toanother	 Income-tax  Officer whether wit in or	without	 theState  will not by itself be sufficient to characterize	 theexercise of the discretion as discriminatory.  Even if thereis  a  possibility of discriminatory  treatment	 of  personsfalling within the same group or category, such	 possibilitycannot necessarily invalidate the piece of legislation.It  may also be remembered that this power is vested not  inminor  officials  but in top-ranking  authorities  like	 theCommissioner of Income-tax and the Central Board of  Revenuewho  act on the information supplied to them by the  Income-tax Officers concerned.	 This power is discretionary and notnecessarily  discriminatory  and abuse of  power  cannot  beeasily	assumed where the discretion is vested in such	highofficials. (Vide Matajog Dobey v. H. S. Bhari(1)).  There ismoreover a presumption that public officials will  dischargetheir  duties honestly and in accordance with the  rules  oflaw. (Vide People of the State of(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 925, 932.33258New.  York v. John E. Van De Carr, etc.(1) It has also	beenobserved  by this Court in A. Thangal Kunju Musaliar  v.  M.Venkitachalam Potti(2) with reference to the possibility  ofdiscrimination	between	 assessees  in	the  matter  of	 thereference  of  their cases to the  Income-tax  InvestigationCommission that " It is to be presumed, unless the, contrarywere  shown,  that the 'administration of a  particular	 lawwould  be done I not with an evil eye and unequal hand'	 andthe selection made by the Government of the cases of personsto be referred for investigation by the Commission would notbe discriminatory."This  presumption, however, cannot be stretched too far	 andcannot be carried to the extent of always holding that theremust  be some undisclosed and unknown reason for  subjectingcertain	  individuals	or  corporations  to   hostile	 anddiscriminatory treatment (Vide Gulf, Colorado, etc. v. W. H.Ellis (3)).  There may be cases where improper execution  ofpower will result in injustice to the parties.	As has	beenobserved,  however, the possibility of	such  discriminatorytreatment cannot necessarily invalidate the legislation' andwhere there is an abuse of such power, the parties aggrievedare not without ample remedies under the law (Vide DinabanduSahu v. Jadumony Mangaraj (4)).	 What will be struck down insuch  cases  will  not be the provision	 which	invests	 theauthorities  with  such	 power but the abuse  of  the  poweritself.It  is	pointed that it will be next to impossible  for	 theassessee  to  challenge	 a  particular	order  made  by	 theCommissioner of Income-tax or the Central Board of  Revenue,as  the case may be, as discriminatory because the  reasons.which  actuated	 the authority in making the order  will  beknown to itself not being recorded in the body of the  orderitself or communicated to the assesse.	The burden  moreoverwill  be  on the assessee to demonstrate that the  order  oftransfer  is  an  abuse of power  vested  in  the  authorityconcerned.   This  apprehension	 is,  however,	ill-founded.Though the(1)  (1905) 310-199 U.S. 552; 50 L. Ed. 305.(2)  (1955)2 S. C. R. 1196.(3)  (1897) 165 U.S. 150 ; 41 L.Ed. 666.(4)  [1955] I S.C.R. 140. 146.			    259burden	of proving that there is an abuse of  power,lies  onthe  assessee  who challenges the order	 as  discriminatory,such  burden is not by way of proof to the hilt.  There	 areinstances where in the case of an accused person rebutting apresumption  or proving an. exception which  will  exoneratehim  from  the liability for the offence with which  he	 hasbeen  charged,	the  burden  is held  to  be  discharged  byevidence  satisfying  the jury of the  probability  of	thatwhich  the accused is called upon to establish (Vide Rex  v.Carr-Briant  (1)),  or in the case of a	 detenue  under	 thePreventive Detention Act seeking to make out a case of	wantof  bona  fides in the detaining authority,  the  burden  ofproof is held not to be one which requires proof to the hiltbut such as will render the absence of bona fides reasonablyprobable  (Vide Ratanlal Gupta v. The District Magistrat  ofGanjam also Brundaban Chandra Dhir Narendra v. The State  ofOrissa	(Revenue  Department)  (3)).  If,  in  a  particular,case,	the assessee seeks to impeach the order of  transferis an abuse of power pointing out circumstances which  primafacie and without anything more would make out the  exerciseof the power discriminatory qua him, it will be incumbent onthe  authority to explain the circumstances under which	 theorder  has  been  made.	  The court  will,  in	that  event,scrutinize  these Circumstances having particular regard  tothe  object  sought to be achieved by the  enactment  of  s.5(7A)  of the Act as set out in para 4 of the  affidavit  ofShri  V.  Gouri Shankar, Under Secretary, Central  Board  ofRevenue, quoted above, and come to its own conclusion as  tothe bona fides of the order and if it is not satisfied	thatthe order was made by the authorities in bona fide  exerciseof  the power vested in them under s. 5(7A) of the  Act,  itwill certainly quash the lame.	The standard of satisfactionwhich  would have to be attained will necessarily depend  onthe Circumstances of each case and the court will arrive  atthe conclusion one way or the other having regard to all thecircumstances of the case disclosed in the(1)  [1943] 1 K.B. 607.(2)  I.L.R. 1951 cuttack 441, 459.(3)  I.L.R. 1952 Cuttack 529, 573.260record.	 The court will certainly not be powerless to strikedown  the  abuse  of  power in	appropriate  cases  and	 theassessee  will not be without redress.	The observations  ofFazl  Ali,  J.,	 in The State of West Bengal  v.  Anwar	 AliSarkar,	 (supra), at pages 309-310 that the  authority	willsay " I am not to blame as I am acting under the Act "	willnot necessarily save the order from being challenged becauseeven though the authority purported to act under the Act itsaction	will be subject to scrutiny in the manner  indicatedabove and will be liable to be set aside if it was found  tobe mala fide or discriminatory qua the assessee.Particular  stress is laid on behalf of the  petitioners  onthe  observations  at page 277 of the majority	judgment  inBidi Supply Co. v. The Union of India, (supra), which in thecontext	  of  the  omnibus  wholesale  order   in   questionemphasized  the	 substantial  discrimination  to  which	 theassessee  there	 had been subjected as compared	 with  otherbidi   merchants   who	 were	similarly   situated.	 Theinconvenience and harassiment to which the assessee was thusput  were  considered  to be violative of  Art.	 14  of	 theConstitution   and   it	 is  urged  that  s.   5   (7A)	  isunconstitutional  in Boar as it is open to the	Commissionerof  Income-tax or the Central Board of Revenue, as the	casemay be, to make an order of transfer subjecting the assesseeto such inconvenience and harassment at their sweet will andpleasure.   This argument of inconvenience, however, is	 notconclusive.  There is no fundamental right in an assessee tobe  assessed  in  a  particular	 area  or  locality.	Evenconsidered  in the context of s. 64 (1) and (2) of  the	 Actthis  right  which  is conferred upon  the  assessee  to  beassessed in a particular area or locality is not an absoluteright  but is subject to the exigencies of  tax	 collection.The  difference,  if  any, created in the  position  of	 theassessee  qua  others who- continue to be  assessed  by	 theIncome-tax Officer of the area in which they reside or carryon  business  is  not  a material  difference  but  a  minordeviation  from the general standard and  would,  therefore,not amount to the denial of equal rights (Per Mukherjea, J.,as  he	then was, in The State of West Bengal v.  Anwar	 AliSarkar., (supra), at261p.   325)).  There is also the further fact to be borne mindthat  this  inconvenience  to the assessee is  sough  to  beminimised  by the authority concerned transferring the	caseof such assessee to the Income-tax Officer who is nearest tothe  area where it would be convenient for the	assessee  toattend and if, on account of administrative exigencies, thisis   not  possible  an	the  assessee  requests	  that	 theexamination of account or evidence to be taken should be  ina  place  convenient  to  him,	by  the	 Income-tax  Officercomplying  with the request of the assessee and holding	 thehearing	 at the place requested.  We are bound to  take	 thestatement contained in para 5 of the affidavit of Shri.	  V.Gouri  Shankar at its face value and if this is done  as  itshould be, the assessee will not be put to any inconvenienceor  harassment and the proper balance between the rights  ofthe subject and public interest will be preserved.It is, therefore, clear that the power which is veste in theCommissioner of Income-tax or the Central Board of  Revenue,as  the	 case may be, under s. 5 (7A) of the Act  is  not  anaked	and   arbitrary	 power,	 unfettered,   unguided	  oruncontrolled  so  as  to enable the authority  to  pick	 andchoose	one  assessee out of those  similarly  circumstancedthus subjecting him to discriminatory treatment as  comparedwith others who fall within the same category.	The power isguided and controlled by the purpose which is to be achievedby  the	 Act  itself, viz., the charge	of  income-tax,	 theassessment  and collection thereof, and is to  be  exercisedfor the more convenient and efficient collection of the	 taxA wide discretion is given to the authorities concerned	 forthe  achievement  of  that purpose, in	the  matter  of	 thetransfer  of the cases of the assessees from one  Income-taxOfficer	 to another and it cannot be urged that	 such  powerwhich is vested in the authorities is discriminatory in	 itsnature.There is a broad distinction between discretion which has tobe  exercised with regard to a fundamental right  guaranteedby  the Constitution and some other right which is given  bythe statute.  If the statute deals with a right which is notfundamental in character262the  statute  can take it away but a fundamental  right	 thestatute cannot take away.  Where, for example, a  discretionis  given in the matter of issuing licences for carrying  ontrade,	profession  or business or  where  restrictions	 areimposed	 on  freedom  of speech, etc., by  a  imposition  ofcensorship, the discretion must be controlled by clear rulesso   as	  to  come  within  the	  category   of	  reasonablerestrictions.	 Discretion   of   that	  nature   must	  bedifferentiated	from  discretion in respect of	matters	 notinvolving fundamental rights such as transfers of cases.  Aninconvenience  resulting  from a change of  place  or  venueoccurs	when  any  case is transferred	from  one  place  toanother	 but  it  is  not open to a  party  to	say  that  afundamental right has been infringed by such transfer.	 Iliother words, the discretion vested has to be looked at	fromtwo  points  of	 view,	ViZ.,  (1)  does  it  admit  of	 thepossibility of any real and substantial discrimination,	 and(2) does it impinge on a fundamental right guaranteed by theConstitution?	Article	 14 can be invoked  only  when	boththese  conditions are satisfied.  Applying this test, it  isclear  that  the  discretion which is  vested  in  the	Com-missioner of Income-tax or the Central Board of Reevenue, asthe   case  may	 be,  under  s.	 5  (7A)  is  not   at	 alldiscriminatory.It  follows,  therefore, that s. 5 (7A) of the	Act  is	 notviolative  of Art. 14 of the Constitution and also does	 notimpose any unreasonable restriction on the fundamental rightto  carry on trade or business enshrined in Art. 19 (1)	 (g)of the Constitution.  If there is any abuse of power it	 canbe remedied by appropriate action -either under Art. 226  orunder  Art.  32 of the constitution and what can  be  struckdown is not the provision contained in s. 5 (7A) of the	 Actbut  the order passed thereunder which may be mala  fide  orviolative,of  these fundamental rights.	 This  challenge  ofthe vires of s. 5 (7A) of the Act, therefore, fails.We may, however, before we leave this topic observe that  itwould  be prudent if the principles of natural justice	are,followed,  where circumstances permit, before any  order  oftransfer  under	 s.  5	(7A)  of the  Act  is  made  by	 theCommissioner of Income-tax or the			    263Central Board of Revenue, as the case may be, and notice  isgiven to the party affected and he is afforded a  reasonableopportunity  of representing his views on the  question	 andthe  reasons  of the order are reduced	however	 briefly  towriting.   It is significant that when any  question  arisesunder s. 64 as to the place of assessment and is  determinedby the Commissioner or Commissioners or by the Central Boardof  Revenue,  as the case may be, the assessee is  given  anopportunity under s. 64(3) of representing his views  beforeany such question is determined.  If an opportunity is givento the assessee in such case, it is all the more ,surprisingto  find that, when an order of transfer under s.  5(7A)  ismade transferring the case of the assessee from one  Income-tax 'Officer to another irrespective of the area or localitywhere  he resides or carries on business, he should  not  begiven such an opportunity.  There is no presumption  againstthe  bona fides or the honesty of an assessee  and  normallythe  Income-tax	 authorities  would  not  be  justified	  inrefusing   to  an  assessee  a	reasonable  opportunity	  ofrepresenting  his views when any order to the  prejudice  ofthe  normal procedure laid down in s. 64 (1) and (2) of	 theAct is sought to be made against him, be it a transfer	fromone  Income-tax Officer to another within the State or	froman  Income-tax	Officer within the State  to  an  Income-taxOfficer	 without it, except of course where the very  objectof  the transfer would be frustrated if notice was given  tothe party affected.  If the reasons for making the order arereduced	 however  briefly to writing it will also  help	 theassessee  in  appreciating the circumstances which  make  itnecessary or desirable for the Commissioner of Income-tax orthe  Central  Board  of	 Revenue, as the  case	may  be,  totransfer his case under s. 5(7A) of the Act and it will alsohelp the court in determining the bona fides of the order aspassed	if and when the same is challenged in court as	malafide or discriminatory.	 It is to be hoped that the  Income-tax  authorities will observe the above	 procedure  whereverfeasible.The next point of attack is that the orders which Were	madeby the Commissioner of Income-tax or the264Central	 Board	of  Revenue, as the case may  be,  in  thesepetitions  are omnibus wholesale orders of  transfer  comingwithin	the  mischief  of Bidi Supply Co. v.  The  Union  ofIndia,	(supra),  and are, therefore, hit  by  the  majorityjudgment in that case.	The answer of the State is that	 theorders	are valid by virtue of the explanation to  s.  5(7A)which was added by the Indian Income-tax Amendment Act, 1956(26 of 1956).It  will be remembered that the explanation was added to  s.5(7A)  in order to get over the situation which was  createdby   the  majority  judgment  in  that	case  and  all	 theproceedings against a particular assessee whether they	werein respect of the same year or the previous years which werepending	 before	 the Income--tax Officer were sought  to  becomprised  in the order of transfer as also all	 proceedingsunder  the  Act	 which may be commenced after  the  date  oftransfer  in respect of any year whether it be the  year  oftransfer  or any year previous or subsequent  thereto.	 Themain structure of s. 5(7A) was, however, maintained and	 theexplanation  was  added	 thereto  in  order  to	 expand	 theconnotation of the word " case " which was used in s. 5(7A).The manner in which this result was brought about is subjectto  criticism that the word ,case" was thus  really  equatedwith  the  word	 " file " and when a case  of  a  particularassessee  was transferred under s. 5(7A) it was	 meant	thathis  whole  file would be transferred  from  one  Income-taxOfficer	 to another.  This inartistic mode appears,  howeverto  be adopted by the supposed necessity of  maintaining  s.5(7A) in the form in which it stood but what we have got  tosee  is	 whether  the desired result has  been	achieved  byadding	the explanation in the manner in which it was  done.Reading	 s. 5(7A) and the explanation thereto, it  is  clearthat when any case of a particular asssssee which is pendingbefore	an  Income-tax	Officer	 is  transferred  from	thatofficer	 to  another Income-tax Officer whether	 within	 theState  or  without  it, all proceedings	 which	are  pendingagainst	 him under -the Act in respect of the same  year  asalso   previous	  years	  are  meant   to   be	 transferredsimultaneously and all proceedings under the			    265Act  which may be commenced after the date of such  transferin respect of any year whatever are also included therei  inso  that  the  Income-tax  Officer  to	whom  such  case  istransferred  would be in a position to continue the  pendingproceedings  and also institute further proceedings  againstthe  assessee  in  respect of  any  year.   The	 proceedingspending	 -at the date of transfer can be thus continued	 butin  the case of such proceedings the provision in regard  tothe issue of notices contained in the main body of s.  5(7A)would  apply  and it would not be necessary to	reissue	 anynotice	already issued by the Income-tax Officer  from	whomthe case is transferred.  This provision applies to  pendingproceedings  which have been transferred leaving  unaffectedthe  further proceedings which may be commenced against	 theassessee after the date of the transfer where fresh  noticeswould have to be issued.It  is,	 however, contended that the cases of  the  assesseewhich have been already closed in the previous years  cannotbe  reopened by the Income-tax Officer to whom the  case  ofthe  assessee is thus transferred and the words " after	 thedate  of transfer in respect of any year " occurring at	 theend of the explanation are sought to be construed to mean  "after  the  date of the transfer in respect of the  year  oftransfer  " thus rendering it incompetent to the  Income-taxOfficer to whom the case is transferred to institute furtherproceedings  in respect of cases of the assessee which	havebeen  already  closed  before the date	of  transfer.	Thiscontention is, in our opinion, unsound.	 The words used	 are"  in respect of any year" and not " in respect of the	year".  Moreover  they are to be read with the  preceding  words"may  be commenced " and not with the words "after the	dateof  transfer".	A proper reading of the explanation will  bethat  the inclusive part thereof refers to  all	 proceedingsunder the Act which may be commenced in respect of any	yearafter  the date of the transfer.  The date of  the  transferhas  relation only to the particular year in which the	caseof the assessee is thus transferred and to attach the  words" in respect of any year " to the words " after34266the date of transfer" do not make any sense.  The words " inrespect	 of  any year " appropriately go with  the  words  "which  may commenced" and read in this juxtaposition  renderthe  inclusive	part  of the explanation  susceptible  of  aproper meaning.	 The language of the explanation read in themanner	suggested  above is thus sufficient to	dispel	thiscontention of the petitioners.it follows, therefore, that the omnibus wholesale orders  oftransfer made against the petitioners by the Commissioner ofIncome-tax or the Central Board of Revenue, as the case	 maybe,  are  saved by the explanation to s. 5(7A) and  are	 notunconstitutional and void:It  remains  now to consider whether the  individual  ordersagainst	 the petitioners are discriminatory in fact  or	 aremala  fide  and	 in  abuse  of	the  power  vested  in	 theCommissioner of Income-tax or the Central Board of  Revenue,as the case may be, under s. 5(7A) of the Act.Petitions  Nos.	 211  to  215  of  1956,  i.e.,	 the  ShiramJhabarmull group, may be dealt with in the first instance asthey  have  a  peculiar characteristic of  their  own.	 Theorders	complained against in these petitions were all	madeby the Commissioner of Income-tax Central, Calcutta, on July27,  1946, and further proceedings were entertained  againstthe  petitioners by the Income-tax Officer,  Central  CircleIV,   Calcutta,	  immeasurable	 thereafter.	All    theseproceedings culminated in assessment orders and	 certificateproceedingsunder s. 46(2) of the Act were also taken by the authoritiesagainst the petitioners for recovery of the tax so  assessedbefore	the  advent  of	 the  Constitution.   The  question,therefore,  arises whether these orders of transfer  can  bechallenged by the petitioners as unconstitutional and void.It  is	settled	 that Art. 13 of  the  Constitution  has  noretrospective effect and if, therefore, any action was takenbefore the commencement of the Constitution in pursuance  ofthe provisions of any law which was a valid law at the	timewhen such action was taken, such action cannot be challengedand the law under			    267which  such  action  was  taken	 cannot	 be  questioned	  asunconstitutional and void on the score of its infringing thefundamental rights enshrined in Part III of the Constitution(See Keshavan Madhava Menon v. The State of Bombay(1)).	 Thefollowing observations of Das, J., as he then was, at p. 235of  that  case,	 may be appropriately referred	to  in	thiscontext:"As already explained, article 13(1) only has the effect  ofnullifying  or	rendering  all	inconsistent  existing	lawsineffectual  or	 nugatory and devoid of any legal  force  orbinding	 effect	 only  with  respect  to  the  exercise	  offundamental rights on and after the date of the commencementof the Constitution.  It has no retrospective effect and if,therefore,  an act was done before the commencement  of	 theConstitution  in contravention of any law which,  after	 theConstitution,  becomes void with respect to the exercise  ofany  of the fundamental rights, the inconsistent law is	 notwiped  out so far as the past act is concerned, for, to	 saythat   it  is,	will  be  to  give  the	 law   retrospectiveeffect.........	 So far as the past acts are  concerned	 thelaw  exists,  notwithstanding that it does  not	 exist	withrespect to the future exercise of fundamental rights."	(Seealso  Syed  Qasim  Razvi v. The State  of  Hyderabad(2)	 andLaxmanappa  Hanumanthappa Jamkhandi v. Union  of  India(1)).It  is	clear,	therefore,  that  the  petitioners  are	 notentitled  to  complain against the said orders	of  transferdated July 27, 1946.Petitions Nos. 225 to 229 of 1956, i.e., the Raichur  group,and  Petitions	Nos. 86, 87, 88, 111, 112 and 158  of  1956,i.e.,  the Amritsar group, all belong to the same  category.In  the	 first	group, there was an  order  of	transfer  onDecember 21, 1953, passed by the Commissioner of Income-tax,Hyderabad, transferring the cases of the petitioner from theAdditional  Income-tax Officer, Raichur, to the	 Income-tax,Officer, Special Circle, Hyderabad.  There was, however,  anorder  passed  by the Commissioner shortly  before  May	 19,1955,  transferring  the cases of the  petitioner  from	 theIncome-tax(1)  [1951] S.C.R. 228, 235.(2)  [1953] S.C.R. 589.(3)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 769.268Officer,  Special Circle, Hyderabad, to the main  Income-taxOfficer,  Raichur.  The	 petitioner  thus  reverted  to	 theIncome-tax Officer, Raichur, and it passes one's imaginationwhat  possible	argument  he  can  urge	 on  the  score	  ofinconvenience  and  harassment.	 The whole attitude  of	 thepetitioner is motivated by an intention to delay the paymentof income-tax legitimately due by him to the Revenue  tryingto  take  advantage of a mere technicality.  In	 the  secondgroup,	there  were  orders passed by  the  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax  transferring the cases of the  petitioners	fromthe Income-tax Officer, "AWard, Amritsar, or the  Income-taxOfficer,'F'Ward,   Amritsar,  to  the  Income-tax   Officer,Special Circle, Amritsar.  Both these officers were situatedin the same building and under the same roof.  The  argumentof   inconvenience   and   harassment	can,   under   thesecircumstances, be hardly advanced by them.There  is moreover another feature which is common  to	boththese  groups and it is that none of the petitioners  raisedany objection to their cases being transferred in the mannerstated	above and in fact submitted to the  jurisdiction  ofthe  Income-tax	 Officers  to  whom  their  cases  had	beentransferred.  It was only after our decision in Bidi  SupplyCo. v. The Union of India, (supra), was pronounced on  March20, 1956, that these petitioners woke up and asserted  theiralleged	 rights, the Amritsar group on April 20,  1956,	 andthe  Raichur group on November 5, 1956.	 If they  acquiescedin the jurisdiction of the Income-tax Officers to whom theircases were transferred, they were certainly not entitled  toinvoke the jurisdiction of this Court under Art. 32.  It  iswell  settled  that such conduct of  the  petitioners  woulddisentitle  them  to any relief at the hands of	 this  Court(Vide  Halsbury's  Laws of England', Vol.  II, 3rd  Ed.,  p.140, para 265; Rex v. Tabrum, Ex Parte Dash(1); 0. A. 0.  K.Lakshmanan  Chettiar v. Commissioner, Corporation of  Madrasand Chief Judge,Court of Small Causes, Madras(2) ).The  orders of transfer made by the Commissioner of  Income-tax or the Central Board of Revenue, as the(1) [1907] 97 L. T. 551.(2) [1927] 1. L. R. 50 Mad. 130.			    269case may be, against the three groups of petitioners,  viz.,Sriram Jhabarmull group, the Raichur group and the  Amritsargroup,	 cannot,  therefore,  be  challenged  by   them	  asunconstitutional and voidThis  leaves  two sets of petitioners,	the  petitioners  inPetitions  Nos.	 97 & 97-A of 1956 and	the  petitioners  inPetitions Nos. 44/56 and 85/56.Petitions  Nos.	 97  & 97-A of 1956  :-The  petitioners	 areoilmill owners, merchants and commission agents, carrying onbusiness  at Sahibganj in the district of  Santhal  Parganasand  have  a  branch at 97, Lower  Chitpur  Road,  Calcutta.Their  cases were referred to the  Income-tax  InvestigationCommission  as they were believed to have evaded payment  oftax  on	 a substantial amount.	They were alleged  -to	haveconcealed  income  exceeding  Rs. 8 lakhs  and	indulged  inbusiness  activities  spread over a wide area  resulting  inlarge  profits not disclosed in the books of account  or  inthe  various returns filed by them.  After the	judgment  ofthis  Court  in Surajmull Mohta & Co. v.  A.  V.  ViswanathaSastri(2),  about  320	cases  referred	 to  the  Income-taxInvestigation  Commission  under  s. 5 (4)  of	Taxation  onIncome	Investigation  Commission  Act (XXX  of	 1947)	wereaffected  and  had to be reopened under s. 34  (IA)  of	 theIncome-tax  Act.   To dispose of these	cases,	"since	theyinvolved  many	back  years' cases"  quickly  and  promptly,special	 circles without reference to area were	 created  atBombay	and  Calcutta, because the existing  circles,  whosehands  were full, could not take up this extra work.   These320  cases  were distributed between these  circles  on	 thebasis  of  the geographical area to  which  these  assesseesbelonged.   The	 petitioners belonged to Bihar	and  had  a-branch at Calcutta and their cases were, therefore, allottedto one of the Central Circles at Calcutta.Later on in October 1954, this Court struck down S. 5 (1) ofthe Taxation on Income Investigation Commission Act (XXX  of1947) in Meenakshi Mills Ltd. v. Viswanatha Sastri. (2 ) andas  a result thereof cases referred under that	section	 andpending with the(I)  [1055] 1 S.C. R. 448.(2)  [1955] I S.C. R. 787.270Income-tax  Investigation Commission on July 17,1954,  couldnot  be	 preceded with under the provisions of that  Act.  -These cases numbering about 470 had to be reopened under  s.34 (1A) of the Income-tax Act.	The Government thought	thatas  in	the  earlier lot of cases, it  would  help  speedierdisposal  of the cases, if they were allotted to  Income-taxOfficers  appointed without reference to area to  deal	withthe  same.   In addition to the circles already	 created  inBombay	and  Calcutta, five more circles at Calcutta  and  4more  circles  at  Bombay and 9 more  circles  at  importantcenters such as Kanpur, Ahmedabad, Madras and Delhi were setup to deal with all these cases.  As a result of the  influxof these cases, it was found that the 9 circles at  Calcuttahad  about  280	 cases of assessees  belonging	to  Calcuttaitself	to dispose of and therefore cases not  belonging  tothat  area  had to be taken out and assigned to one  of	 thenewly created circles, Where the work load was low.  It	 wasfound  then  that Central Circle VI had a  lower  work	loadcompared  to other circles and, therefore, the cases of	 thepetitioners  were  transferred to  the	Income-tax  Officer,Central Circle VI, Delhi.Having regard to these circumstances which are disclosed  inthe  affidavits of Shri V. Gouri Shankar,  Under  Secretary,Central	 Board	of  Revenue, dated November  19,  1956,	 andDecember 3, 1956, it is clear that the transfer of the casesof  the petitioners, firstly, from the	Income-tax  Officer,Special	 Circle, Patna, to the Income-tax  Officer,  CentralCircle	XI, Calcutta, and next, from the latter	 officer  tothe Income-tax Officer, Central Circle VI, Delhi, were	madeas a matter of administrative convenience only.It  further  appear;  from  the	 said  affidavits  that	 theexamination  of	 accounts and the evidence was done  at	 theplaces	desired	 by  the assessees in order  to	 suit  theirconvenience  and  the Income-tax  Officers  were  instructedaccordingly.   As a matter of fact the	Income-tax  Officer,Central Circle VI, Delhi, went to Sahibganj and examined theaccounts there in the case of the petitioner No. 1 and	whenthe assessee voluntarily requested the Income-tax Officer tohave			    271the examination done at Delhi (the assessee had then come toDelhi  for  some other work of his) the	 Income-tax  Officerpromptly posted the case and examined the accounts.If these were the circumstances under which the cases of thepetitioners were transferred from Patna to Calcutta and fromCalcutta  to  Delhi and the petitioners	 were  afforded	 allconveniences  in  the  matter of the  examination  of  theiraccounts and evidence, there is no basis for the charge thatthe  orders of transfer made against these petitioners	werein any manner whatever discriminatory.Petitions Nos. 44 and 85 of 1956The  petitioner in Petition No. 44/56 is Shri A. L. Sud	 whooriginally  belonged  to Hoshiarpur district in	 Punjab	 andsince  1948 resides and has his office in Calcutta.   He  isthe  son of one Shri Bhagwan Das Sud and is a member of	 theHindu  undivided family styled M/S.  Bhagwan Das Sud &	Sonswith  Shri.   Bhagwan Das Sud as the  karta  thereof.	ThisHindu  undivided  family has been carrying  on	business  atHoshiarpur  and	 at  various  other  places  like  Bareilly,Calcutta  and Bombay.  The petitioner has been	carrying  onbusiness  both as the member of the Hindu  undivided  familyand  also in his individual capacity since 1946.   The	saidjoint  family of Bhagwan Das Sud & Sons was alleged to	haveevaded	income-tax to a large extent and  had  inter-relatedtransactions  in respect of their dealings,  the  petitionerbeing  a  copartner  of	 the said  joint  family.   It	was,therefore,  considered necessary in order to have  a  properassessment  of	the petitioner's income that his  case	alsoshould be dealt with by the Income-tax Officer assessing thejoint  family and the petitioner was informed that,  in	 thematter	of hearing, he would be put to least  inconvenience.These  were  the  circumstances under  which  his  case	 wastransferred  from  the Income-tax  Officer,  Survey  Circle,Calcutta, to the Income-tax Officer, Special Circle, Ambala,by  an order of the Central Board of Revenue dated June	 29,1955.The  case  of M/S.  Bhagwan Das Sud & Sons,  petitioners  inPetition No. 85/56; had already been272transferred  by	 the  Commissioner of  Income-tax  from	 theIncome-tax  Officer, Hoshiarpur, to the Income-tax  Officer,Special	 Circle, Ambala, by an order under s. 5(7A)  of	 theAct  dated  October  20, 1953.	The  petitioners  had  theiroffice	at  Hoshiarpur in Punjab but their  activities	werescattered  in various parts of India some of them  being  inAssam,	Bombay, Bareilly, Calcutta and Kanpur in respect  ofthe  contracts they undertook with the Government and  otherparties.   They	 were  alleged	to  have  concealed   incomeassessable  to income-tax exceeding Rs. 30 lakhs and it	 wasthought	 necessary  to make proper  investigation  of  theirwidespread  activities	resulting' in extensive	 evasion  ofincome-tax.  These were the circumstances under which  theircase  was  transferred	to the	Incometax  Officer,  SpecialCircle, Ambala, as above.  That officer, however, agreed  toexamine	 the accounts and evidence at Hoshiarpur  itself  tosuit the convenience of the petitioners but the	 petitionersdid not agree on the ground that their Advocate was to	comefrom Delhi and therefore Ambala would suit them as well.The   cases  of	 both  the  petitioners	 thus  came  to	  betransferred from the respective Income-tax Officers who usedto  assess them at Calcutta and Hoshiarpur  respectively  tothe  Income-tax	 Officer, Special Circle,  Ambala,  and	 allconveniences  were  afforded to them in the  matter  of	 theexamination of their accounts and evidence.  The argument ofdiscrimination	and inconvenience and harassment thus  losesall  its force and the orders of transfer made against	themcannot be challenged as in any way discriminatory.It  may be noted that in the last mentioned four  petitions,viz.,  Petitions Nos. 97 & 97-A of 1956 and  Petitions	Nos.44/56  and  85/56,  the	 Central Board	of  Revenue  or	 theCommissioner  of Income-tax, as the case may be,  instructedthe   Income-tax   Officers  concerned	 to   minimise	 theinconvenience  caused to the assessees and even	 proceed  totheir  respective residences or places of business in  orderto  examine  the  accounts and	evidence.   Inspite  of	 thedenials of the assessees in the affidavits which they  filedin			    273rejoinder, we presume that such facilities will continue  tobe afforded to them in the future and the inconvenience	 andharassment  which would otherwise be caused to them will  beavoided.   A  humane and considerate administration  of	 therelevant  provisions of the Income-tax Act would go  a	longway  in allaying the apprehensions of the assessees  and  ifthat  is done in the true spirit, no assessee will be  in  aposition  to  charge  the  Revenue  with  administering	 theprovisions of the Act with " an evil eye and unequal hand ".We have, therefore, come to the conclusion that there is  nosubstance  in these petitions and they should  be  dismissedwith  costs.   There  will, be, however, one  set  of  costsbetween respondents in each of the petitions and one set  ofcosts in each group of these petitions, viz., (1)  PetitionsNos. 97 & 97-A of 1956, (2) Petitions Nos. 44/56 and  85/56,(3)  Petitions Nos. 86/56, 87/56, 88/56, 111/56, 112/56	 and158/56,	 (4)  Petitions	 Nos. 211 to 215 of  1956,  and	 (5)Petitions Nos. 225 to 229 of 1956.Petitions dismissed.