PETITIONER:BAIJ NATH PRASAD TRIPATHI	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BHOPAL(and connected petition)DATE OF JUDGMENT:13/02/1957BENCH:ACT:Criminal trial-Prosecution for offences under s. 161 of theIndian	PenalCode and s. 5 of the Prevention  of  CorruptionAct-Proceedings	 quashed for want of  Proper  sanction-Freshsanction-Second	 trial	for same  offences--Whether  betred-Constitution   of  India,  Art.	 20  (2)-Code  of   CriminalProcedure, S. 403.HEADNOTE:The  accused was tried and convicted by a Special judge	 foroffences  under s. 161 of the Indian Penal Code and s. 5  ofthe  Prevention	 of  Corruption Act.  On  appeal  the  wholeproceedings were quashed as being ab initio invalid for wantof proper sanction.  The authorities accorded fresh sanctionand directed the accused to be tried by a Special judge	 forthe same offences.  It was contended by the accused that thesecond	trial was barred by Art. 20 (2) of the	Constitutionof India and by s. 403 -Of the Code of Criminal Procedure.Held,  that  the trial was not barred.	Art. 20 (2)  had  noapplication  in	 the  case.   The  accused  was	 not   beingprosecuted and punished for the same offence more than once,the  earlier  proceedings having been held to  be  null	 andvoid.  The accused was not tried in the earlier	 proceedingsby  a  Court of competent jurisdiction, nor  was  there	 anyconviction  or acquittal in force within the meaning  of  S.403(1)	of the Code to stand as a bar against the trial	 forthe same offence.Yusofalli'Mulla v. The King, A.I.R. (1949) P. C. 264, BasdeoAgarwalla v. King-Emperor, (1945) F.C.R. 93 and Budha Mal v.of Delhi, Criminal Appeal No. 17 Of 1952, decided on October1952, followed.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL  JURISDICTION:	 Petition  No.	115  of	 1956,	 andPetition No. 132 of 1956.Petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forthe enforcement of fundamental rights.B.   D. Sharma, for the petitioners.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, PorusA. Mehta and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondents,6511957.  February 13.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyS.   K.	 DAS  J.-These	two  petitions	for  the  issue	  ofappropriate   writs   restraining   the	  respondents	fromprosecuting  and  trying  the two  petitioners	'on  certaincriminal  charges in circumstances to be  presently  stated,raise the same question of law and have been heard together.This judgment will govern them both.Baij Nath Prasad Tripathi, petitioner in Petition No. 115 of1956,  was  a Sub-inspector of Police in the then  State  ofBhopal.	  He  was  prosecuted in the Court  of	Shri  B.  K.Puranik,  Special Judge, Bhopal, and convicted	of  offencesunder s. 161, Indian Penal Code, and s. 5 of the  Preventionof  Corruption Act, 1947.  He was sentenced to nine  months'rigorous imprisonment on each count.  He preferred an appealagainst	 the  conviction  and  sentences  to  the   JudicialCommissioner  of Bhopal.  The Judicial Commissioner held  byhis judGment dated March 7, 1956, that no sanction accordingto law had been given for the prosecution of the -petitionerand the Special JudGe had no jurisdiction to take cognizanceof  the	 case; the trial was accordingly ab  initio  invalid-and  liable  to be quashed.  He accordingly set  aside	 theconviction  and	 quashed the entire proceedings	 before	 theSpecial Judge.	He then observed: "The parties would thus berelegated  to the position as if no legal  charge-sheet	 hadbeen submitted against the appellant." On April 4, 1956, theChief  Commissioner of Bhopal passed an order under s.	7(2)of the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1952 (No.  XLVI of  1952)that  the  petitioner  shall be tried by Shri  S.  N.  Shri-vastava,  Special Judge, Bhopal, for certain offences  underthe  Prevention of Corruption Act read with S.	161,  IndianPenal Code.  The case of the petitioner is that he cannot beprosecuted  and tried again for the same offences under	 theaforesaid order of April 4, 1956.Sudhakar Dube, petitioner in Petition No. 132 of. 1956,	 wasalso a Sub-Inspector of Police in the then State of  Bhopal.He  was also prosecuted in the Court of Shri B. K.  Puranik,Special Judge, Bhopal, on a84652charge of having accepted illegal gratification for- showingofficial favour to one Panna Lal.  The learned Special Judgeby  an order dated January 10, 1956, came to the  conclusionthat no legal sanction for the prosecution of the petitionerhad  been given by the competent authority and the  sanctiongiven by the Inspector.	 General of Police was not valid  inlaw;  he  therefore held that the whole trial was  null	 andvoid  and  he could not take cognizance of the	offences  inquestion.   Accordingly	 he  quashed  the  proceedings.	  OnFebruary  7, 1956, the Chief Secretary to the Government  ofBhopal	accorded fresh sanction for the prosecution  of	 thepetitioner for offences under s. 161, Indian Penal Code, ands.  5 of the Prevention of Corruption Act.   The  petitionerthen moved this Court for appropriate writs restraining	 therespondents from prosecuting and trying him for the offencesstated in the fresh sanction aforesaid.On behalf of both the petitioners the contention is that  byreason of cl. (2) of Art. 20 of the Constitution and s.	 403of  the Code of Criminal Procedure, the	 petitioners  cannotnow be tried 'for the offences in question.  It is necessaryto  read here some of the relevant sections bearing  on	 thepoint  at  issue.  Section 6 of the Criminal  Law  AmendmentAct,  1952 (prior to the amendment made in 1955), so far  asis relevant for our purpose, is in these terms :"6.  (1)  The State Government may, by notification  in	 theOfficial  Gazette, appoint as many special Judges as may  benecessary for such area or areas as may be specified in	 thenotification Co try the following offences, namely:-(a)  an	 offence punishable under section 161, section	165,or section 165-A of the Indian Penal Code (Act XLV of 1860),or  sub-section	 (2)  of  section 5  of	 the  Prevention  ofCorruption Act, 1947 (II of 1947);(b)  any  conspiracy to commit or any attempt to  commit  orany  abetment  of any of the offences  specified  in  clause(a"'.Sub-section (1) of s. 7 of the same Act lays down:"7.  (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the  Code  ofCriminal Procedure, 1898 (Act V of 1898) or in655any  other  law the offences specified in subsection  (I  ofsection 6 shall be triable by special Judges only".The  same section also states that when trying any  case,  aspecial Judge may also try any offence other than an offencespecified in s. 6 with which the accused may, under the Codeof  Criminal Procedure, 1898, be charged at the same  trial.It  is	not  necessary for our purpose	to  read  the  othersections "of the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1952.  We	thengo  to	the Prevention of Corruption Act,  1947,  section  6whereof	 is  relevant for our purpose.	That section  is  inthese terms:"  6.  (1)  No Court shall, take cognizance  of	 an  offencepunishable  under section 16l or section 165 of	 the  IndianPenal  Code  or under sub-section (2) of section 5  of	thisAct,  alleged  to have been committed by  a  public  servantexcept	with  the  previous sanction,(a) in the	 case  of  aperson who is employed in connection with the affairs of theUnion  and is not removable from his office save by or	withthe  sanction of the Central Government..........  [of	the]Central Government;(b)  in	 the case of a person who is employed in  connectionwith the affairs of [a State] and is not removable from	 hisoffice	 save  by  or  -with  the  sanction  of	 the   StateGovernment................ [of the] State Government;(c)  in	 the  case  of any other person,  of  the  authoritycompetent to remove him from his office.(2)  Where  for	 any  reason  whatsoever  any  doubt  ariseswhether the previous sanction as required under	 sub-section(1)  should be given by the Central or State  Government  orany  other authority, such sanction shall be given  by	thatGovernment  or authority which would have been competent  toremove, the public servant from his office at the time	whenthe offence was alleged to have been committed."It is under this section that sanction was necessary for theprosecution  of the petitioners.  Clause (2) of Art.  20  ofthe Constitution, on which the petitioners rely, states:654"No  person  shall be prosecuted and punished for  the	sameoffence more than once."Section 403 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, on  whichlearned counsel for the petitioners has placed the  greatestreliance, is in these terms:"  A person who has once been tried by a Court of  competentjurisdiction  for ail offence and convicted or acquitted  ofsuch  offence  shall,  while such  conviction  or  acquittalremains	 in force, not be liable to be tried again  for	 thesame  offence, nor on the same facts for any  other  offencefor  which a different charge from the one made against	 himmight  have  been made under section 236, or  for  which  hemight have been convicted under section 237."Now,  it  is  necessary to state that  the  point  taken  bylearned	 counsel for the petitioners is really concluded  bythree decisions-(a) one of the Privy Council,(b)  another ofthe  Federal Court and (c) the third of this  Court  itself.The Privy Council decision is in Yusofalli Mulla v. The King(1); the Federal Court decision in Basdeo Agarwalla v. King-Emperor	 (2)  ;	 and the decision of  this  Court  (not	 yetreported)  was given in Budha Mal v. State of Delhi  (3)  onOctober 3, 1952.  The Privy Council decision is directly  inpoint, and it was there held that the whole basis of s.	 403(1) was that the first trial should have been before a Courtcompetent  to  hear and determine the case and to  record  averdict of conviction or acquittal; if the Court was not  socompetent,  as for example where the required  sanction	 forthe prosecution was not obtained, it was irrelevant that  itwas competent to try other cases of the same class or indeedthe  case  against  the	 particular  accused  in   differentcircumstances, for example if a sanction had been  obtained.So  is	the  decision  of this	Court  where  the  followingobservations were made with regard to the point in question:"  Section  403, Criminal Procedure Code, applies  to  caseswhere  the  acquittal  order has been made  by	a  Court  ofcompetent jurisdiction but it does not bar(1)  A.I.R. 1949 P.C. 264.(2)  [1945] F.C. R. 93.(3)  Criminal  Appeal No. 17 Of 1952 decided on	 October  3,1952.655a  retrial of the accused in cases where such an  order	 hasbeen  made  by	a court which had no  jurisdiction  to	takecognizance of the case.	 It is quite apparent on this recordthat  in  the absence of a valid sanction the trial  of	 theappellant in the first instance was by: a magistrate who hadno jurisdiction to try him."After  the pronouncements made in the decisions referred  toabove,	it is really unnecessary to embark on a	 further  orfuller	discussion  of the point raised,  except  merely  tostate that we have heard learned counsel for the petitionerswho made a vain attempt with a crusading pertinacity  worthyof  a better cause, to show that the Privy Council  decisionwas   wrong  and  the  decision	 of  this   Court   requiredreconsideration,  and having heard learned counsel in  full,we  are	 of the view that the decisions	 referred  to  abovestate the legal position correctly.  It is clear beyond	 anydoubt  that  el. (2) of Art. 20 of the Constitution  has  noapplication  in	 these two cases.  The petitioners  are	 notbeing prosecuted and punished for the same offence more thanonce,,	the earlier proceedings having been held to be	nulland  void.   With  regard  to  s.  403,	 Code  of   CriminalProcedure,  it is enough to state that the petitioners	werenot  tried,-  in  the earlier proceedings,  by	a  Court  ofcompetent  jurisdiction,  nor  is there	 any  conviction  oracquittal in force within the meaning of s. 403. (1) of	 theCode,  to  stand as a bar against their trial for  the	sameoffences.   Learned counsel for the petitioners invited	 ourattention  to ss. 190, 191, 192, 529 and 530 of the Code  ofCriminal   Procedure   and   submitted	 that	in   certaincircumstances	the   Code  drew   a   distinction   between'jurisdiction'	and I taking cognizance'.  The whole  fabricof  the	 argument  of learned counsel was  founded  on	thisdistinction.   Assuming, however, that in certain cases	 oneMagistrate  may take cognizance and another  Magistrate	 maytry an accused person, it is difficult to appreciate how anyCourt can try the petitioners of these cases in the  absenceof a sanction in view of the mandatory provisions of s. 6 ofthe  Prevention	 of Corruption Act, 1947.  If no  Court	 cantake cognizance of the offences in question without a  legalsanction, it is obvious666that  no  Court	 can  be said to be  a	Court  of  competentjurisdiction to try those offences and that any trial in theabsence	 of  such sanction must be null and  void,  and	 thesections  of  the Code on which learned counsel	 1  for	 thepetitioners  relied have really no. bearing on	the  matter.Section 530 of the Code is really against the contention  oflearned	 counsel,  for it states, inter alia,  that  if	 anyMagistrate  not being empowered by law to try all  offender,tries him, then the proceedings shall be void.	Section	 529(e)  is	 merely	 an  exception	in  the	 matter	 of   takingcognizance of an offence under s. 190, sub-s. (1), cls.	 (a)and  (b);  it  has no bearing in a case	 where	sanction  isnecessary  and no sanction in accordance with law  has	beenobtained.As   part  of  his  arguments,	learned	 counsel   for	 thepetitioners referred to certain observations made by  BraundJ.  in	a decision of the Allahabad High  Court,  Basdeo  v.Emperor	 (1),  where the learned Judge	drew  a	 distinctionbetween	  'taking  cognizance'	and   'jurisdiction'.	 Thedistinction  was  drawn in a case where	 a  Magistrate	dulyempowered  to commit cases to the Sessions  Court  committedail  accused person to the Court of Session in disregard  ofthe provisions of s. 254 of the Code of Criminal  Procedure,and  the question was whether the irregularity so  committedrendered  the  Sessions Court incompetent to try  the  case.The  facts there were entirely different from the  facts  ofthe  present cases and there was no occasion  nor  necessityfor  considering such mandatory provisions as are  containedin  s.	6 of the Prevention of Corruption Act.	 We  do	 notthink that the observations made in that case can be pressedin service in support of the argument of learned counsel forthe petitioners in these cases, treating those	observationsas  though they laid down any abstract propositions  of	 lawnot dependent on the context of the facts in connection withwhich they were made.Out of deference to learned counsel for the petitioners,  wehave  indicated	 and considered very briefly  the  argumentsadvanced before us.  As we have said(1)  A.I.R. T045 All. 340.657before, - the point is really concluded by decisions of	 thehighest	 tribunal,  decisions which correctly lay  down	 thelaw.   The  result  therefore is that  these  petitions	 aredevoid of all merit and must be dismissed.Petitions dismissed.