PETITIONER:THE SAMARTH TRANSPORT CO. (P) LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE REGIONAL TRANSPORT AUTHORITY,NAGPUR AND OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:08/09/1960BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)KAPUR, J.L.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1961 AIR   93		  1961 SCR  (1) 631 CITATOR INFO : R	    1962 SC1135	 (6) RF	    1963 SC 640	 (12) RF	    1971 SC1662	 (13)ACT:Motor  Vehicles-Application  for renewal of  stage  carriagepermits-Approval    of	 Scheme	  of   nationalisation	  byGovernment--Application	 refused  months  after	 expiry	  ofPermits-Order, if without jurisdiction--Disposal, if must bemade  within  reasonable  time-Duty  of	 Regional  TransportAuthority-Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (IV of 1939), as  amendedby Act 100 of 1956, ss. 57, 58, 62, 68F.HEADNOTE:As the petitioner's stage carriage permits were to expire onDecember  31,  1959, it made applications for a	 renewal  ofthem81632on August 24, 1959. on December 29, 1959, temporary  permitswere granted to the petitioner for one month and  thereafterfor  another,  made  available up to March  31,	 196o.	 Thematter	was  adjourned from time to time and  ultimately  onApril 28, 196o, the petitioner's applications were  rejectedon the ground that a scheme of nationalisation including thepetitioner's routes had in the meantime been approved by theGovernment on April 20, 196o.  The petitioner applied  underArt. 32 of the Constitution    for a writ quashing the	saidorder  and  the	 scheme, on the	 ground	 that  the  RegionalTransport Authority was actuated by mala fides and its	realpurpose	 in  granting  the adjournments was  to	 enable	 theGovernment  to	approve of the scheme, and for	a  directionthat  the  petitioner's applications for  renewal  might  bedisposed  of according to law as on the date when they	werefiled.Held, that the petition must fail.The  Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, does not prescribe  any	timelimit  for  the disposal of an application  for	 renewal  ofpermits	 and it cannot be said that the	 Regional  TransportAuthority in the instant case acted without jurisdiction  inrejecting  the applications even though months	had  elapsedafter the permits had expired and notwithstanding that s. 62permitted the issue of no more than one temporary permit.Even so, the relevant provisions of the Act indicate that anapplication  for renewal of a permit has to be	disposed  ofordinarily  before  the expiry of the permits  or  within  areasonable time thereafter.  It was, therefore, open to	 thepetitioner,  if it was aggrieved by the delay, to ask for  amandamus   directing  the  Authority  to  dispose   of	 itsapplications within a reasonable time.Although  s. 68F(1) of the Act applies only where the  StateTransport  Undertaking applies for a permit in pursuance  ofan approved scheme, s. 68F(2) is not conditioned by any suchlimitation and the word 'entertain used by it does not referto  an application filed for the renewal of a  permit  afterthe approval of the scheme.  That word does not connote	 anytime but describes the scope and duty under that clause	 andonly   means  that  the	 Authority  cannot  dispose  of	  anapplication on merits but can reject it as not	maintainableeither at the time it is filed or thereafter.Statutory  bodies  are	in duty bound to  act  promptly	 andefficiently and discharge their functions fairly and withoutbias  even where the Government is interested.	The  conductof the Regional Transport Authority, in the instant case, ingranting adjournments, not for the reasons they purported tobe  but to enable the Government to approve of	the  scheme,must be disapproved.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 67/1960.Petition  under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forenforcement of fundamental rights.			    633A.   V.	 Viswanatha  Sastri and B. B.  L. Iyengar,  for	 thepetitioners.C.   K.	 Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, R.  GanapathyIyer and R. H.	Dhebar, for the respondents.1960.  September 8. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredby  A SUBBA RAO J.-This is a petition under Art. 32  of	 theConstitution  to  quash the order of  the  first  respondentdated  April 28, 1960, and the scheme dated April 20,  1960,and  to	 direct	 the  first  respondent	 to  deal  with	 theapplication  of the petitioner for renewal of its permit  inaccordance with law.The  petitioner	 was doing business of	motor  transport  inBombay State for over 20 years.	 It had four permanent stagecarriage  permits  granted some years ago and  renewed	fromtime to time to ply buses on the following routes:(i)  Yeotmal-Umerkhed...  2  return  trips.(ii) Yeotmal-Pusad...	  4 return trips. The  term  of the latest permits expired  on  December	 31,1959.  About four months prior to the expiry of the  permitsthe  petitioner applied on August 24, 1959, for the  renewalof  the	 permits under s. 58(2) of the Motor  Vehicles	Act,1939  (Act  IV of 1939), (hereinafter called the  Act).	  OnOctober	 29, 1959, the State Transport Department  publishedits  proposed  scheme for the nationalization  of  the	roadtransport services in respect of an area which included	 theroutes	of  the	 petitioner.   On  November  9,	 1959,	 thepetitioner  wrote  a letter to the Secretary,  the  RegionalTransport Authority, Nagpur, asking him why its	 applicationfor  renewal  of  the stage carriage permits  had  not	beenpublished  as  required	 by  s. 57  of	the  Act.   It	alsoexpressed  its	apprehension that the  application  was	 notpublished by the Regional Transport Authority with a view toassist the State Transport Department in ousting it from thesaid routes and that the Authority was creating a  situationin order to force the petitioner to accept temporary permitsunder  s.  62(d) of the Act-.  The Secretary,  the  RegionalTransport634Authority, by his letter dated November 11, 1959, replied tothe  effect  that  the	application  for  renewal  had	beenpublished on November 8, 1959, and that the said applicationwould  be  considered  before the expiry date  and  that  noquestion  of  issuing  temporary permits  would	 arise.	  OnNovember  19,  1959,  the Assistant  Manager  of  the  StateTransport  Department  on  behalf  of  the  State  TransportDepartment filed applications before the Regional  TransportAuthority for issue of permits to it in respect of the	saidtwo  routes among others.  It was mentioned therein that  asper  the  notification published in  the  Bombay  GovernmentGazette	 dated	October 29, 1959, the  Provincial  TransportServices  proposed  to take over the aforesaid	routes	fromJanuary	 1,  1960.  The Provincial Transport  Services	alsofiled  objections  against  the renewal of  the	 permits  infavour	of the petitioner.  On December 10, 1959,  the	saidapplications  were  published  in the  Gazette	and  it	 wasnotified  therein  that representations, if any,  should  besubmitted on or before December 15, 1959, and that the	saidobjections along with the applications for permits would  beconsidered in a meeting to be held by the Regional TransportAuthority in the month of December, 1959, at Nagpur or at  alater date which may be notified in due course.	 On December21, 1959, the Secretary of the Regional Transport  Authorityintimated  to  the  petitioner that in the  meeting  of	 theRegional  Transport  Authority	scheduled  to  be  held	  onDecember 31, 1959, it would not be possible to consider	 itsapplications  for  renewal due to " heavy agenda ".  It	 wasalso  suggested	 to it to apply for the grant  of  temporarypermits	 pending renewal in good time so that they could  beissued before the due date.  The petitioner on the same datereplied	 to  that letter wherein it pointed out that  "	 theheavy agenda mentioned in your letter is, we hold, a  designto  cover  your	 attempt  to  ad  Vance	 the  cause  of	 theProvincial  Transport  Services,  (U.	G.  O.),  Nagpur  ".Without	 prejudice to its rights the petitioner applied	 fortemporary  permits as directed by the Authority On  December29,  1959, temporary permits were issued for one month	fromJanuary 1,6351960,  and thereafter they were extended for  another  monthand  made available upto March 31, 1960.  The ,next  meetingof the Regional Transport Authority scheduled to be held  onFebruary 5, 1960, was adjourned to February 24, 1960, and onJanuary	 22,  1960,  the Chief	Minister  of  Bombay  issuednotices to the petitioner and others that objections to	 theproposed scheme would be heard on February 24, 1960; but  onthe  said date the applications were not disposed of on	 theground	that the matter was sub judice in the High Court  ofBombay.	  On  March  17,  1960,	 the  Provincial   TransportServices  filed	 a  fresh application  before  the  RegionalTransport  Authority under Ch. IVA of the Act for the  grantof permits for plying buses on the routes mentioned therein.It was also brought to the notice of the Regional  TransportAuthority that the Provincial Transport Services desired  tooperate	 tile  routes in question from May 1, 1960,  or	 anyother  date  as	 may  be fixed	by  the	 Regional  TransportAuthority.  Presumably, the second application was filed  asthe  earlier  application was filed not under  Ch.   IV	 butUnder  Ch.   IVA  of the Act on the basis  of  the  proposedscheme.	 On March 31, 1960, the Regional Transport Authoritymet again, but the applications for renewal of permits filedby  the petitioner were not taken up for consideration.	  Itis  suggested that as 30 days had not expired from the	dateof  the	 filing	 of  the  applications	by  the	  ProvincialTransport  Services the petitioner's applications could	 notbe-taken up for consideration.	On April 14, 1960, the ChiefMinister  of  Bombay heard the objections and on  April	 19,1960, the scheme with modifications was duly approved by theGovernment  and published on April 20, 1960.   The  approvedscheme covered only the routes in respect of which only tem-porary permits were issued and excluded the routes in regardto  which  pucca permits were issued.  The  approved  schemeincluded  the petitioner's routes.  On April 20,  1960,	 theapplications  were  again adjourned to	April  29,1960.	  OnApril 26, 1960, the petitioner moved this Court under Art.32of the Constitution and on April 28, 1960, the petition	 wasdismissed as premature.636On the same day even though the Regional Transport Authoritywas informed that this Court was moved by the petitioner itsrenewal	 applications were rejected on the ground  that	 thescheme was approved by the Government.	The present petitionwas filed on April 29, 1960, for the aforesaid reliefs.The main contention of learned counsel, Mr. A. V. ViswanathaSastri,	 for the petitioner, is that the Regional  TransportAuthority was actuated by mala fides in the disposal of	 theapplications  for  renewal of the permits, and	that  thoughunder the provisions of the Act it had no alternative but torenew the permits of the petitioner it adjourned the  matterfrom  time  to	time  with an  evil  design  to	 enable	 theGovernment  to	approve the scheme.  In that  situation,  hecontends, the proper course is to set aside the order of theRegional Transport Authority and direct it to dispose of thepetitioner's  applications for renewal of permits as on	 thedate when they were filed.To  appreciate this argument it is necessary to notice	someof  the relevant provisions of the Act.	 Under s. 58 of	 theAct,  "	 A  stage carriage permit  or  a  contract  carriagepermit......... shall be effective without renewal for	suchperiod,	 not  less than three years and not more  than	fiveyears,	as the Regional Transport Authority may	 specify  inthe permit ". Clause (2) provides for the renewal of permitson  application	 made  and  disposed of as  if	it  were  anapplication  for  a  permit.   Section	57  prescribes	 theprocedure in the matter of the disposal of applications	 forpermits.    Section  57	 (1)  enables  the  filing   of	  anapplication for a permit at any time, and clause (2) of thatsection says that such an application shall be made not lessthan  six weeks before the date on which it is desired	thatthe permit shall take effect, and, under cl. (3) thereof, onreceipt	 of  such  an application for  permit  the  RegionalTransport  Authority  shall publish the application  in	 theprescribed manner calling for representations to be made  ona  date	 not  being  less than 30  days	 from  the  date  ofpublication.	After  hearing	the  said   objections	 andrepresentations,  the  applications will be disposed  of  inaccordance with the provisions of637the   Act.   Section  62  enables  the	Regional   TransportAuthority  to grant permits without following the  procedureprescribed under s. 57 to be effective for a limited  periodnot in any case to exceed four months, to authorize the	 useof  a transport vehicle temporarily pending decision  on  anapplication for the renewal of a permit.  The second provisoto  that  section states that a temporary permit  under	 thesaid section shall, in no case, be granted more than once inrespect of any route or area specified in an application forthe  renewal  of  a  permit  during  the  pendency  of	suchapplication  for  renewal.  Section 68F	 enables  the  StateTransport  Undertaking, in pursuance of an approved  scheme,to  apply  in the manner specified in Ch.  IV  for  a  stagecarriage  permit in respect of a notified route and on	suchan application the Regional Transport Authority shall  issuesuch  a	 permit	 to  the  said	Undertaking  notwithstandinganything  contained to the contrary in Ch.  IV.	  Under	 cl.(2) of that section, for the purpose of giving effect to theapproved  scheme in respect of a notified area	or  notifiedroute, the Regional Transport Authority may by order  refuseto  entertain any application for the renewal of  any  otherpermit, to cancel any existing permit or to modify the termsof   any  existing  permit.   Section  68G  prescribes	 theprinciples and method of determining compensation in respectof the permits cancelled or modified.The  foregoing	provisions, so far relevant to	the  presentenquiry,  may  be summarized thus: An operator	of  a  stagecarriage  may apply for renewal of his permit not less	than60 days before the date of its expiry; the said	 applicationwill  be  disposed  of as if it were an	 application  for  apermit	and  he will be given  preferential  treatment,	 theother conditions being equal; the Act does not prescribe anyouter limit for disposal of the application for renewal of apermit, for its disposal would depend upon the	applicationsfiled by others and the time required for complying with theconditions laid down in s. 57; but the requirement that	 theapplication shall be filed not less than 60 days before	 thedate   of  the	expiry,	 the  injunction  that	pending	  anapplication for638renewal	 of  a permit, temporary permit shall not  be  givenmore  than  once  and the time limit of four  months  for  atemporary permit fixed in s. 62 indicate that, though  thereis no statutory prohibition, the application is expected  tobe  disposed  of ordinarily before the term of	the,  permitexpired	  or,  in  case	 of  unavoidable  delay,  within   areasonable   time  thereafter;	after  a  scheme  has	beenapproved,  if the State Transport Undertaking applies for  apermit,	 the  Regional Transport Authority shall  issue	 thepermit	to  it and for the purpose of giving effect  to	 theapproved  scheme the said Authority is authorized to  refuseto entertain an application for renewal of any other  permitor  cancel  or modify any existing permit; if  the  RegionalTransport   Authority	cancels	 or   modifies	 a   permit,compensation is, payable to the operator affected.In  the	 present case the permits expired  on  December	 31,1959.	The  petitioner filed applications  for	 renewal  onAugust	24, 1959, and they were rejected on the ground	thatthere was an approved scheme on April 28, 1960.	 On December29,  1959, temporary permits were granted for one month	 andafter the expiry of those permits, another set of  temporarypermits	 was issued for another month ending with March	 31,1960.	It  is true that under the second proviso to  s.  62temporary  permits  could not have been	 granted  more	thanonce, but a transgression of that provision by the  RegionalTransport Authority does not affect the question raised.  Asthe  provisions of the Act do not prescribe any	 time  limitfor  the disposal of an application for renewal of  permits,we  cannot hold that the Regional Transport Authority  actedwithout	 jurisdiction  in rejecting  the  applications	somemonths	after  the date of the expiry of the  terms  of	 thepermits.  If there was any inordinate delay in the  disposalof an application, it was open to the affected party to	 askfor  a	mandamus  to direct  the  appropriate  Authority  todispose	 of the petition within a reasonable time.   But  nosuch  step  was taken by the petitioner, though it  filed  awrit petition in the High Court for other reliefs.639The   next  question  is  whether  the	Regional   TransportAuthority exceeded its power in rejecting the  applications.In  this context it will be convenient to read the  relevantportions of s. 68F, which read:Section 68F: "(1) Where, in pursuance of an approved scheme,any State transport undertaking applies............... for astage carriage permit the Regional Transport Authority shallissue	  such	  permit    to	  the	 State	   transportundertaking................  (2) For the purpose  of  givingeffect to the approved scheme in respect of a notified	areaor notified route, the Regional Transport Authority may,  byorder,-(a)  refuse to entertain any application for the renewal  ofany other permit."Learned	 counsel  for the petitioner contends  that  s.	 68Fapplies	 only  when an application for permit is made  by  aState  Transport  Undertaking in pursuance  of	an  approvedscheme	and that in the present case as the application	 wasfiled  by the State Transport Undertaking before the  schemewas  approved,	the  provisions	 of  the  section  were	 notattracted.   It	 is  true that under  s.  68F  the  RegionalTransport  Authority is bound to issue a permit to  a  StateTransport Undertaking only' if it applies in pursuance of anapproved scheme.  That is why in the present proceedings theAuthority  did not issue any permit to the  State  TransportUndertaking; but sub-s. (2) of s. 68F is not conditioned  byany  such limitation.  The Regional Transport  Authority  isauthorized  for the purpose of giving effect to an  approvedscheme to refuse to entertain an application for renewal  ofany  other  permit.   This power does not  depend  upon	 thepresentation  of  an  application  by  the  State  TransportUndertaking for a permit.  This power is exercisable when itis  brought to the notice of the Authority that there is  anapproved  scheme and, to give effect to it, the	 applicationfor  renewal  cannot  be  entertained.	 By  the  time	 theapplication  for renewal came to be disposed of,  admittedlythe scheme had been approved by the Government of Bombay andthe  routes  in question were included in the  said  scheme.Therefore$82640the  Authority	was within its rights not to  entertain	 theapplications filed by the petitioner.  It is contended	thatthe  word " entertain " refers to an application  filed	 forthe  renewal of a permit after the scheme was  approved	 andthat  the said provision has no relevance to an	 applicationfor  renewal made before that  date. The word " entertain  "may mean " to receive on file or keep on file ", and in thatsense the Authority may refuse to keep an application on itsfile by1.   rejecting	it  either  at	the  time  it  is  filed  orthereafter.  It does not connote any time but only describesthe  scope of the duty under that clause.  It can only	meanthat  the  Authority cannot dispose of	the  application  onmerits	but  can reject it as not maintainable.	  Any  othermeaning	 given to this word leads to an anomalous  position,for even if the approval of a scheme had been brought to thenotice of the Regional Transport Authority, it would have toorder the renewal of the permit and thereafter it would haveto cancel the permit, presumably, on an application filed bythe  State Transport Undertaking.  We do not think that	 thelegislature used the word " entertain " to bring about	thatresult.	  A  wider meaning of the word " entertain  "  wouldenable	the smooth working of the provisions of the  sectionand  we	 have  no  reason to  accept  the  narrower  meaningsuggested by the learned counsel.  We, therefore, hold	thatthe  Regional Transport Authority had power under s.  68F(2)of  the Act in the circumstances of the case to	 reject	 theapplications filed by the petitioner.The  next  contention  of the learned counsel  is  that	 thescheme suffers from the vice of discrimination inasmuch	 as,though	it  excluded the petitioner from  operating  on	 theroute between Yeotmal and Umerkhed, it allowed others to plytheir  buses  on  that	route on their	way  from  Akola  toUmerkhed  or  Amravati to Umerkhed.  There is no  basis	 forthis  argument in the affidavit filed by the  petitioner  issupport	 of the writ petition.	We do not think that we	 arejustified  in allowing the petitioner to raise the plea	 forthe first time before us.  We do not, therefore, allow it todo so.			    641Lastly	it is argued that the Chief Minister  confirmed	 thescheme on extraneous considerations not covered by s. 68C ofthe  Act.  In paragraph 24 of his order the  Chief  Ministerobserved,  " On merits, it is quite clear to me that  havingregard	to the resources of the P. T. S. and  the  amenitiesthat it provides to the public, it is in the public interestthat the scheme submitted by the P. T. S., Nagpur, should beapproved  ".  Under  s.	 68C the  question  that  arose	 forconsideration  before  the Chief Minister  was	whether	 thetransport  services  should be run by  the  State  TransportUnder. taking to the exclusion of the petitioner and whetherit  was necessary to do so in public interest to provide  anefficient,  adequate, economical and  properly	co-ordinatedroad  transport	 service.  The Chief Minister found  on	 thematerial  placed  before him that it was  necessary  in	 thepublic interest that the scheme submitted by the  ProvincialTransport  Services should be approved.	 In support  of	 hisconclusion,  he took into consideration that the  ProvincialTransport   Services  were  in	possession   of	  sufficientresources and were in a better position to provide amenitiesto  the public and therefore in public interest they  shouldbe given preference over the private operators of buses.  Wecannot	say  that  the Chief Minister  took  any  extraneouscircumstances	into   consideration  in  coming   to	thatconclusion.The record in this case is not indicative of promptitude  orefficiency  in	the  matter of discharge  of  the  statutoryfunctions by the Regional Transport Authority.	The  variousdates, the reasons given for putting off the disposal of thepetitions  for renewal from time to time and the timing	 andthe   manner  of  the  final  disposal	are  such   as	 maylegitimately  give rise to the allegation that the  RegionalTransport  Authority  was not, to say the  least,  fair	 andimpartial  in  the  discharge of its  duties.	A  statutorytribunal  is expected to discharge its functions fairly	 andwithout	 bias  even  in a case where the  interests  of	 theGovernment   are  involved.   Considering  the	 facts	 andcircumstances of this case, we cannot say that the complaintof the petitioner that the adjournments were not for the642reasons	 mentioned in the orders but were only to give	timeto  enable the Government to approve the scheme, may not  bewholly unjustified.In   the  circumstances,  though  we  are   dismissing	 theapplication,   we  are	not  awarding  any  costs   to	 therespondents.Petition dismissed.