PETITIONER:MANOHAR LAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF PUNJABDATE OF JUDGMENT:11/11/1960BENCH:AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALABENCH:AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALAIMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.GUPTA, K.C. DASDAYAL, RAGHUBARCITATION: 1961 AIR  418		  1961 SCR  (2) 343 CITATOR INFO : R	    1961 SC1559	 (9) APL	    1962 SC 316	 (56)ACT:Trade  Employees--Close	 day--Enactment,  if  violative	  offundamental	rights--Workers'       Welfare--Protection--Restriction,  if unreasonable--Punjab Trade  Employees	Act,1940, (Punj.  X of 1940) s. 7 (1)HEADNOTE:The  appellant	who was a shopkeeper was convicted  for	 thesecond	time  by  the  Additional  District  Magistrate	 forcontravening  the provisions of s. 7(1) of the Punjab  TradeEmployees Act, 1940, under which he was required to keep hisshop  closed on the day which he had himself chosen as	a  "close  day ". He raised the plea that the Act did not  applyto  his	 shop  as he did not employ any	 stranger  but	thathimself	 alone worked in it and that the application  of  s.7(1)  to  his  shop would be violative	of  his	 fundamentalrights under Arts. 14, 19(1)(f) and (g) of the	Constitutionand  also  that the restriction imposed was  not  reasonablewithin	Art.  19(6)  as it was not in the  interest  of	 thegeneral344public.	  The  High  Court  dismissed  his  application	 forrevision  of  the  Magistrate's	 order.	  On  appeal  on   acertificate of the High Court,Held, that the main object of the Act was the welfare of theemployees  and	to protect their as well as  the  employers'health	 by  preventing	 them  from  over  work.    Such   arestriction being in the interest of the general public	 wasreasonable   within  the  meaning  of  Art.  19(6)  of	 theConstitution.The  provisions of s. 7(1) were constitutionally  valid	 andwere  justified as for securing	 administrative	 convenienceand  avoiding evasion of those provisions designed  for	 theprotection of the workmen.Manohar Lal v. The State, [1951] S.C.R. 671, referred to.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL   APPELLATE  JURISDICTION:  Criminal	Appeal	 No.173/1956.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated May 23,  1956,  ofthe Punjab High Court in Criminal Revision No. 1058/1954.K.   L. Arora, for the appellant.N.   S. Bindra and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1960.  November 11.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyAYYANGAR J.-This appeal on a certificate under Arts. 132 and134(1)	of  the Constitution granted by the  High  Court  ofPunjab raises for consideration the constitutionality of  s.7(1) of the Punjab Trade Employees Act, 1940.The  appellant-Manohar Lal--has a shop at Ferozepore  Cantt.in which business is carried on under the name and style  ofI  Imperial  Book  Depot'.  Section 7 of  the  Punjab  TradeEmployees Act, 1940 (hereinafter called the Act), enacts:" 7. (1) Save as otherwise provided by this Act, every	shopor  commercial establishment shall remain closed on a  closeday.(2)(i).	  The  choice  of a close day shall  rest  with	 theoccupier of a shop or commercial establishment and shall  beintimated  to the prescribed authority within two months  ofthe date on which this Act comes into force."to extract the provision relevant to this appeal.  The345appellant had chosen Friday as " the close day ", i.e.,	 theday of the week on which his shop would remain closed.	 TheInspector of Shops and Commercial Establishments, FerozeporeCircle, visited the appellant's shop on Friday, the 29th  ofJanuary,  1954, and found the shop open and the	 appellant'sson selling articles.  Obviously, if s. 7(1) were valid, theappellant was guilty of a contravention of its terms and  hewas  accordingly prosecuted in the Court of  the  AdditionalDistrict Magistrate, Ferozepore, for an offence under s.  16of the Act which ran:"  Subject  to	the other provisions of	 this  Act,  whoevercontravenes    any    of    the	   provisions	 of	thisAct  ................................................  shallbe liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding	 twenty-fiverupees	for  the first offence and one	hundred	 rupees	 forevery subsequent offence ".The appellant admitted the facts but he pleaded that the Actwould not apply to his shop or establishment for the  reasonthat  he had engaged no strangers as employees but that	 theentire work in the shop was being done by himself and by themembers of his family, and that to hold that s. 7(1) of	 theAct  would  apply to his shop would be	unconstitutional  asviolative of the fundamental rights guaranteed by Arts.	 14,19(1)(f)  and  (g)  of	the  Constitution.   The  additionalDistrict   Magistrate  rejected	 the  plea  raised  by	 theappellant regarding the constitutionality of s. 7(1) in	 itsapplication to shops where no " employees " were engaged andsentenced  him to a fine of Rs. 100 and simple	imprisonmentin  default of payment of the fine (since the appellant	 hadbeen  convicted once before).  The appellant applied to	 theHigh Court of Punjab to revise this order, but the  Revisionwas dismissed.	The learned Judges, however, granted a	cer-tificate of fitness which has enabled the appellant to	filethe appeal to this Court.Though the validity of s. 7(1) of the Act was challenged  inthe  High  Court  on various grounds,  learned	Counsel	 whoappeared before us rested his attack on one point.  He urgedthat the provision violated the44346appellant's  right  to	carry  on  his	trade  or   businessguaranteed by Art. 19(1)(g) and that the restriction imposedwas  not reasonable within Art. 19(6) because it was not  inthe  interest of the general public.  Learned  Counsel	drewour attention to the long title of the Act reading " An	 Actto limit the hours of work of Shop Assistants and CommercialEmployees  and to make certain regulations concerning  theirholidays, wages and terms of service " and pointed out	thatthe insistence on the appellant to close his shop, in  whichthere were no " employees ", was really outside the  purviewof  the	 legislation and could not be said to  subserve	 thepurposes  for  which  the Act was enacted.   In	 short,	 thesubmission of the learned Counsel was that the provision forthe  compulsory closure of his shop for one day in the	weekserved	no interests of the general public and that  it	 wasunduly and unnecessarily restrictive of his freedom to carryon a lawful trade or business, otherwise in accordance	withlaw,  as he thought best and in a manner or mode  most	con-venient or profitable.We  are clearly of the opinion that the submissions  of	 thelearned	 Counsel should be repelled.  The long title of	 theAct  extracted earlier and on which learned  Counsel  placedconsiderable  reliance as a guide for the  determination  ofthe  scope  of	the  Act  and  the  policy  underlying	 thelegislation,  no doubt, indicates the main purposes  of	 theenactment   but	 cannot,  obviously,  control  the   expressoperative  provisions  of the Act, such as for	example	 theterms  of s. 7(1).  Nor is the learned counsel right in	 hisargument that the terms of s. 7(1) are irrelevant to  securethe  purposes  or to subserve the underlying policy  of	 theAct.  The ratio of the legislation is social interest in thehealth of the worker who forms an essential part of the com-munity	and  in whose welfare, therefore, the  community  isvitally interested.  It is in the light of this purpose thatthe provisions of the Act have to be scrutinized.  Thus,, S.3 which lays down the restrictions subject to which alone "Iyoung persons ", defined as those under the age of 14, couldbe  employed  in any shop or  commercial  establishment,  isobviously with a view to347ensuring  the health of the rising generation  of  citizens.Section 4 is concerned with imposing restrictions  regardingthe  hours  of work which might be  extracted  from  workersother than " young persons ". Section 4(1) enacts:" Subject to the provisions of this Act, no person shall  beemployed  about	 the  business	of  a  shop  or	  commercialestablishment  for  more  than the  normal  maximum  workinghours, that is to say, fifty-four hours in any one week	 andten hours in any one day.bringing the law in India as respects maximum working  hoursin line with the norms suggested by the International LabourConvention.  Sub-clauses (4) and (5)	of this section	 areof some relevance to the matter now	under consideration:" (4) No person who has to the knowledge of the occupier  ofa shop or commercial establishment been previously  employedon any day in a factory shall be employed on that day  aboutthe  business of the shop or commercial establishment for  alonger period than will, together with the time during whichhe has been previously employed on that day in the  factory,complete the number of hours permitted by this Act.(5)  No	 person shall work about the business of a  shop  orcommercial establishment or two or more shops or  commercialestablishments	or a shop or commercial establishment and  afactory	 in  excess  of the period during which	 he  may  belawfully employed under this Act."It  will be seen that while under sub-cl. (4) employers	 areinjuncted from employing persons who had already worked	 forthe   maximum	number	of  permitted	hours	in   anotherestablishment,	sub-cl.	 (5) lays an embargo on	 the  workerhimself from injuring his health by overwork in an endeavourto  earn more.	From this it would be apparent that the	 Actis concerned-and properly concerned-with the welfare of	 theworker	and seeks to prevent injury to it, not	merely	fromthe  action  of	 the employer but from his  own.   In  otherwords, the worker is prevented from attempting to earn	morewages by working longer hours than is good348for him.  If such a condition is necessary or proper in	 thecase  of  a  worker,  there does not  seem  to	be  anythingunreasonable  in applying the same or similar principles  tothe  employer  who works on his own business.	The  learnedJudges of the High Court have rested their decision on	thispart  of  the case on the reasoning that the  terms  of	 theimpugned section might be justified on the ground that it isdesigned  in  the  interest  of the owner  of  the  shop  orestablishment  himself and that his health and welfare is  amatter	of interest not only to himself but to	the  generalpublic	The legislation is in effect the exercise of  socialcontrol over the manner in which business should be  carriedon-regulated in the interests of the health and welfare	 notmerely	of those employed in it but of all those engaged  init.   A	 restriction  imposed with a  view  to	secure	thispurpose	 would,	 in our opinion, be clearly  saved  by	Art.19(6).Apart  from  this,  the constitutionality  of  the  impugnedprovision  might be sustained on another ground also,  viz.,with  a	 view to avoid evasion	of  provisions	specificallydesigned for the protection of workmen employed.  It may  bepointed	 out  that  acts  innocent  in	themselves  may	  beprohibited  and	 the restrictions in that  regard  would  bereasonable,  if	 the  same  were  necessary  to	 secure	 theefficient enforcement of valid provisions.  The inclusion ofa reasonable margin to ensure effective enforcement will notstamp a law otherwise valid as within legislative competencewith   the   character	of  unconstitutionality	  as   beingunreasonable.  The provisions could, therefore, be justifiedas  for	 securing  administrative convenience  and  for	 theproper enforcement of it without evasion.  As pointed out bythis  Court  in	 Manohar  Lal v. The  State  (1)  (when	 theappellant   challenged	the  validity  of   this   identicalprovision but on other grounds):"  The legislature may have felt it necessary, in  order  toreduce	the  possibilities  of	evasion	 to  a	minimum,  toencroach upon the liberties of those who would not otherwisehave been affected............ To require a shopkeeper,	 whoemploys one or two men,(1)  [1951] S.C.R. 671, 675.349to  close and permit his rival, who employs perhaps a  dozenmembers	 of his family, to remain open, clearly	 places	 theformer at a grave commercial disadvantage.  To permit such adistinction  might well engender discontent and in  the	 endreact upon the relations between employer and employed."We have, therefore, no hesitation in repelling the attack onthe  constitutionality	of s. 7(1) of the Act.	 The  appealfails and is dismissed.Appeal dismissed.