PETITIONER:SARWAN SINGH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF PUNJAB(with connected appeal)DATE OF JUDGMENT:10/04/1957BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.JAGANNADHADAS, B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.CITATION: 1957 AIR  637		  1957 SCR  953ACT:Confession--Procedure--Duty  of the Magistrate--Time  to  begiven	 to    accused	  to	decide	  to	make	 theconfession--Corroboration--Approver--Reliability--Test--Corroboration--Code  of Criminal Procedure (Act V of  1898),s.164.HEADNOTE:The appellants and G were convicted of the offence of murderby  the Sessions Court on the basis of the evidence  of	 theapprover,  which it considered reliable, and the  confessionmade  by the first appellant which it found to be  voluntaryand  true.   The High Court held that the  evidence  of	 theapprover  as against G was very discrepant  and.  unreliableand  set aside his conviction but,  nevertheless,  confirmedthe  conviction of the appellants.  The appellants  appealedto  the Supreme Court.	It was found (1) that the  statementoriginally  made  by  the approver  as	against	 the  secondappellant  was wholly inconsistent and	irreconcilable	withthe  evidence given by him in Court and that the High  Courtdid not consider the question as to whether the approver wasa  reliable  witness  at all, (2) that	the  Magistrate	 whorecorded  the  confession  did not  fully  comply  with	 theprocedure to be adopted to ensure that it was voluntary, (3)that the prosecution story as deposed to by the approver wasinconsistent with the material statement in the	 confession,and  (4)  that	the High Court while  deciding	whether	 theconfession was voluntary assumed that it was true. Held,	that  the conviction of the appellants must  be	 setaside.  The appreciation of an approver's evidence has to  satisfya  double test.	 It must show that be is a reliable  witnessand that his evidence receives sufficient corroboration.  The act of recording confessions under s. 164 of the	Codeof Criminal Procedure is a solemn one and in discharging hisduties under the said section the Magistrate must take	careto  see	 that the requirements of sub-s. (3) Of S.  164	 arefully satisfied. When an accused person is produced before the Magistrate bythe  investigating officer, it is of the  utmost  importancethat  the  mind of the accused person should  be  completelyfreed from any possible influence of the police and he	mustbe sent to jail custody and given adequate time to  considerwhether he should make a confession at all.  Ordinarily,  heshould be given at least 24 hours to decide. Even  if  a  confession  is  voluntary,  it  must  also  beestablished  that  it is true and, for that purpose,  it  isnecessary to examine it123954and compare it with the rest of the prosecution evidence andthe probabilities of the case.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeals Nos.  22and 23 of 1957.Appeals	 by special leave from the judgment and order  datedAugust	7, 1956, of the Punjab High Court at  Chandigarh  inCriminal  Appeals  Nos.	 253  and 250  of  1956	 and  MurderReference  No.	38 of 1956 arising out of the  judgment	 andorder  dated  May  21,	1956, of  the  Court  of  AdditionalSessions Judge at Ludhiana in Trial No. 17 of 1956 and	CaseNo. 9 of 1956. Gyan Chand Mathur, for the appellant in Criminal Appeal No.22 of 1957.  R. L.	 Kohli, for the appellant in Criminal Appeal No.  23of 1957.  Gopal	 Singh and -T.	M. Sen, for the respondent  in	boththe appeals.  1957.	 April 10.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyJ.   GAJENDRAGADKAR  J.-Harbans	 Singh,	 Gurdial  Singh	 andSarwan	Singh  were  charged in the  court  of	the  learnedAdditional Sessions Judge -at Ludhiana with having committedan  offence of murder punishable under s. 302 of the  IndianPenal Code.  The case against them was that they, along withBanta  Singh,  the approver, had  intentionally	 caused	 thedeath  of Gurdev Singh by inflicting injuries on his  personwith kirpan, toki and dang on November 23, 1955, within	 thelimits	of the village Sohian, police station Jagraon.	 Thelearned trial judge held that the charge framed against	 allthe three accused had been proved beyond a reasonable doubt.That  is  why he convicted them of the offence	charged	 andsentenced each one of them to death.  On appeal to the	HighCourt  of  Punjab,  the order  of  conviction  and  sentenceimposed against Harbans Singh and Sarwan Singh was confirmedwhereas the order of conviction and sentence against GurdialSingh  was set aside and he was ordered to be acquitted	 anddischarged.  Accused No. 1, Harbans955Singh,	and accused No. 3, Sarwan Singh, have come  to	thisCourt in appeal by special leave. It  would be convenient to state the prosecution case	verybriefly	 at  the outset.  Gurdev Singh, the  victim  of	 theassault,  was the brother of accused No. 1. It appears	thatthe father of the two brothers had left the Ga village	someyears ago and is apparently no longer alive.  Harbans  Singhwas  a	shirker	 and a waster and  that	 made  Gurdev  Singhimpatient.   When  Gurdev  Singh tried	to  improve  HarbansSingh, Harbans Singh resented Gurdev Singh's efforts and hisirritation and annoyance had reached such a stage and extentthat he began to plan his murder.  According to the story ofthe prosecution, Harbans Singh got in touch with his friendsSarwan Singh and Gurdial Singh and requested them to  assisthim in his plan to get rid of his brother.  It appears	thatGurdial	 Singh	himself was on inimical	 terms	with  GurdevSingh because he was angry with Gurdev Singh for having	 cutjokes with his sister.	A few days before the commission  ofthe offence, Harbans Singh and Sarwan Singh were sitting  ona  canal bank near their village enjoying their	 drink	whenBanta  Singh joined them.  He was also asked to	 partake  ofthe  liquor  and was told about the plan  to  murder  GurdevSingh.	 A few days later there was another meeting  betweenthese three men and it was agreed that an attempt should  bemade  to  procure arms for the purpose of carrying  out	 theplan   Rakha was accordingly approached and as a  result  ofthe  negotiations he sold a country-made pistol and a  cart-ridge for Rs. 40 to Sarwan Singh.  Rakha was also  requestedto join the conspiracy.	 He was however unwilling to respondand  though he did not openly say 'no' to the  proposal,  atthe  material time he refused to join the conspirators.	  Onthe  day of the offence itself, Sarwan Singh, Gurdial  Singhand Banta Singh went by a bus together and got down near theroad which leads to the village Sohian.	 Then they proceededon  foot until they met Harbans Singh near the canal  minor.Harbans	 Singh	then  advised his  co-conspirators  to	hidethemselves  in	the  bushes.  He then fetched  a  bottle  ofliquor and all the four drank from it, This956took them to sunset time, when Harbans Singh left the  placeand  promised his friends that he would send his brother  tothe place where they would lie concealed.  He also told themthat  he  would give a signal as soon as his  brother  wouldapproach  the  place of their concealment  by  clapping	 hishands.	  In  accordance  with	 this  plan  Harbans   Singhpersuaded  his	brother	 to go	ahead.	 Sarwan	 Singh	thencoughDed  and  this raised an apprehension in  the  mind  ofGurdev	Singh that people for him.  So he some may be  lyingin  wait  called out to his brother Harbans Singh  and	saidthat  he  suspected  that  there  were	some  people  there.Harbans	  Singh	 assured  him  that  he	 would	soon   join.Meanwhile,  according to plan, the three assailants  emergedfrom  their place of concealment and attacked Gurdev  Singh.Harbans	 Singh also arrived on the scene and joined them  inthe assault.  The prosecution case is that Harbans Singh wasarmed  with  a	kirpan,	 Gurdial Singh	with  a	 lathi,	 theapprover  Banta	 Singh with a toki and Sarwan Singh  used  akirpan.	  The attack was undoubtedly brutal and callous	 andit resulted in as many as 69 incised wounds and two contusedinjuries which had been caused with a blunt weapon.   Havingassaulted (Gurdev Singh in this brutal manner his assailantsran away.Harbans	 Singh returned to his village and raised a hue	 andcry.   He complained that his brother had been carried	awayby  a number of persons and he pretended that his  brother'sassailants were Darshan Singh, Jagat Singh, Gurnam Singh andBanta  Singh of the village Pona.  The villagers-,  however,found  that  Harbans Singh was not keen on joining  them  inrendering help to the victim or in pursuing his	 assailants.Finally,   however,  he	 was  persuaded	 to  accompany	 thevillagers and the villagers in the company of Harbans  Singhreached	 the stop where Gurdev Singh's body was found  in  apool  of blood. Thereafter Harbans Singh went to the  policestation	 and made a report of the occurrence at about  10-30p.m.  He  alleged in his report that his  brother  had	beenmurdered  by  the aforesaid four persons of the	 village  ofPona.  Purporting to act on this report, the police957reached the spot in the early hours of the next morning	 andso the investigation commenced. It is clear that the police had their own doubts about	 thetruth of the report made by Harbans Singh from the start andthey suspected that it was Harbans Singh and his friends whowere  concerned	 with the commission of this  foul  offence.Sarwan Singh, Gurdial Singh and Banta Singh were arrested onNovember   25  and  Harbans  Singh  on	November  26.	 Theinvestigating  officer recovered from the person  of  SarwanSingh  a  blood-stained shirt and chadar and  obtained	fromSarwan	Singh's	 house a pistol and an	empty  cartridge  oninformation given by him from the person of Gurdial Singh  ablood-stained turban was recovered and the information givenby him led to the discovery of a stick or lathi.  This lathiwas  blood-stained.   From  Banta Singh's  person  a  blood-stained	 chadar was recovered and the information  given  byhim led to the discovery of a kirpan and a toki from a	wellin  which  they	 were thrown after  the	 commission  of	 theoffence.    The	 prosecution  also  alleges  that,  on	 theinformation  given  by	Harbans	 Singh,	 some  blood-stainedclothes	 were recovered from Gurdev Kaur sister	 of  GurdialSingh.	 It  appears  that, on	November  30,  Sarwan  Singhoffered to make a confessional statement and the  confessionwas in fact recorded on the same day.  On December 2,  BantaSingh was given pardon and made an approver.  That in  briefis the prosecution case.  All  the  three  accused  deny  any  connection  with	 thecommission of the offence.  The learned Sessions Judge	heldthat Banta Singh was a reliable witness.  Since Banta  Singhis,  however,  an  approver  the  learned  Judge  consideredwhether	  his	evidence   had	 received   the	   requisitecorroboration  in material particulars and he held  that  itdid.  The learned Judge also found that the confession	madeby  Sarwan Singh was voluntary and true and in	his  opinionthe evidence of Rakha and the other circumstantial  evidencewith  regard to the blood-stained clothes of the  respectiveaccused	 persons  and the recovery of the  weapons  affordedsufficient  corroboration in material particulars.  That  ishow he reached the conclusion that the charge of murder has958been proved against all the three accused.  On appeal it hasbeen held by the learned Judges of the High Court of  Punjabthat  the  evidence  given by  the  approver,  Banta  Singh,against	 accused  Gurdial  Singh  was  very  discrepant	 andtherefore unreliable and so they found that the case againstGurdial	 Singh	had   not been proved  beyond  a  reasonabledoubt.	 In the result Gurdial Singh was acquitted; but	 theview  taken  by	 the  learned  Judges  in  respect  of	 theprosecution case against Harbans Singh and Sarwan Singh	 wasthat  the  approver's evidence supplied the  basis  for	 theprosecution case against them and since it was	corroboratedby  circumstantial evidence to which reference	has  alreadybeen  made and by the confession of Sarwan Singh, there	 wasno  difficulty	in confirming the order	 of  conviction	 andsentence  passed against these two accused persons.   It  isthis  view  which  is  challenged  before  us  by  the	 twoappellants in the present appeals.  Since the present appeals have been filed by special leaveunder Art. 136 of the Constitution, it would normally not beopen to the appellants to raise questions of fact before us.Prima  facie  the orders of conviction and  sentence  passedagainst	 the appellants are based on concurrent findings  offact  and we would be slow to interfere with  such  findingsunless we are satisfied that the said findings are  vitiatedby  errors  of law or that the conclusions  reached  by	 thecourts	below  are so patently opposed to  well	 establishedprinciples   of	  judicial  approach,  that  they   can	  becharacterised as wholly unjustified and even perverse.  On  behalf of Harbans Singh, it has been urged. before  usby  Mr. Kohli that the judgment of the High Court of  Punjabsuffers	 from a serious infirmity in that, in  dealing	withthe  evidence  of the approver, the learned  Judges  do	 notappear	to  have  addressed themselves	to  the	 preliminaryquestion as to whether the approver is a reliable witness ornot.   The  problem  posed  by the  evidence  given  by	 an.approver has been considered by the Privy Council and courtsin  India on several occasions.	 It is hardly  necessary  todeal at length with the true legal position in this  matter.An accomplice is undoubtedly a competent witness under959the  Indian Evidence Act.  There can be, however,  no  doubtthat  the  very	 fact  that  he	 has  participated  in	,thecommission of the offence introduces a serious stain in	 hisevidence  and courts are naturally reluctant to act on	suchtainted	 evidence  unless  it is  corroborated	in  materialparticulars by other independent evidence.  It would not  beright to expect that such independent	corroboration shouldcover  the whole of the prosecution story -or even  all	 thematerial  particulars.	If such a view is adopted  it  wouldrender	the evidence of the accomplice	wholly	superfluous.On  the	 other hand, it would not be safe to act  upon	suchevidence   merely  because  it	is  corroborated  in   minorparticulars  or incidental details because, in such a  case,corroboration  does not afford the necessary assurance	thatthe  main story disclosed by the approver can be  reasonablyand safely accepted as true.  But it must never be forgottenthat  before the court reaches the stage of considering	 thequestion of corroboration and its adequacy or otherwise, thefirst initial and essential question to consider is  whethereven  as an accomplice the approver is a  reliable  witness.If the answer to this question is against the approver	thenthere is an end of the matter, and no question as to whetherhis evidence is corroborated or not falls to be	 considered.In  other words, the appreciation of an approver's  evidencehas  to satisfy a double test.	His evidence must show	thathe is a reliable witness and that is a test which is  commonto all witnesses.  If this test is satisfied the second testwhich  still  remains to be applied is that  the  approver'sevidence  must receive sufficient corroboration.  This	testis  special  to the cases of weak or tainted  evidence	likethat of the approver.  Mr. Kohli's contention is that  sincethe  learned Judges of the High Court of Punjab have  failedto  address  themselves	 to  this  initial  question,  theirappreciation  of  the  approver's evidence  suffers  from  aserious infirmity.  In our opinion, this contention is well-founded.   We have carefully read the judgment delivered  bythe High Court but we find no indication in the whole of thejudgment that the learned Judges considered the character ofthe approver's evidence and reached the960conclusion  that  it was the evidence given  by	 a  reliablewitness.   The only statement which we find in the  judgmentdealing with this topic is that " since the main evidence inthe  case  consists of the testimony of the approver  it  isnecessary to consider the case of each J.    appellantindividually.	" With respect, this observation is open  tothe criticism which has been made against it by Mr. Kohli.The  argument that the character of the approver's  evidencehas  not  been	considered  by	the  High  Court  cannot  becharacterised  as  merely  academic or	theoretical  in	 thepresent	 case because, as we will presently point  out,	 theevidence of the approver is so thoroughly discrepant that itwould  be  difficult  to  resist  the  conclusion  that	 theapprover in the present case is a wholly unreliable witness.Indeed	it may be legitimate to point out that	the  learnedJudges	of  the High Court have	 themselves  criticised	 theevidence  of  the approver in dealing with  the	 prosecutioncase  against Gurdial Singh and have ultimately	 found	thatthe account given by the approver is unreliable and,  thoughthere was circumstantial evidence which raised an amount  ofsuspicion against Gurdial Singh, that would not be enough tosustain his conviction.	 It seems to us that if it was foundthat  the  approver's  account against one  of	the  accusedpersons	 was wholly discrepant, this finding  itself  shouldinevitably have led the court to scrutinise his evidence  inrespect	 of the other accused persons with greater  caution.Besides,  it is somewhat unfortunate that the  attention  ofthe  learned  Judges of the High Court	was  presumably	 notdrawn  to  the	still  more  serious  discrepancies  in	 theevidence  of the approver in regard to the part assigned  toHarbans	 Singh	in the commission of the  offence.   In	 theevidence'  given by the approver before the trial court,  hehas definitely and unequivocally implicated Harbans Singh inthe  commission of the offence.	 It has been brought out  inthe cross-examination that in the very first statement	madeby the approver before the investigating officer on November25  he	had made statements about Harbans  Singh  which	 arewholly	inconsistent  with the subsequent  story.   In	thisstatement, the961approver  had definitely stated that only the three of	themwere concerned with the commission of the offence,  himself,Sarwan Singh and Gurdial Singh.	 He had also stated  clearlyin  the	 said statement that Harbans Singh did not  join  inmurdering Gurdev Singh.	 It is remarkable that in regard  toalmost	every material particular about the part  played  byHarbans	 Singh	in the commission of the offence  the  storydisclosed by the approver at the trial is inconsistent	withhis first statement before the police.	In his statement  atthe trial, the approver assigns Gurdial Singh the possessionof  lathi  and according to him Gurdial	 Singh	subsequentlytook  up  the kirpan from Sarwan Singh and  murdered  GurdevSingh after which Harbans Singh himself gave a blow with  itat  the	 neck of the victim.  In his  statement	 before	 thepolice, the approver had said that Gurdial Singh had carrieda kirpan.  We are deliberately not referring to the  severalother minor discrepancies which have been brought out in theevidence  of the approver in his cross-examination.  In	 ouropinion,  the discrepancies brought out in the	evidence  ofthe approver qua the prosecution case against Gurdial  Singhcoupled with the more serious discrepancies in his  evidencein  the prosecution case against Harbans Singh lead to	onlyone  conclusion and that is that the approver has no  regardfor truth.  It is true that in his second statement recordedon November 29, the approver substantially changed his firststory  and involved Harbans Singh in the commission  of	 theoffence, and in that sense, his second statement can be saidto  be	consistent with his evidence at the trial.   But  wecannot lose sight of the fact that, within three days  afterthe recording of his second statement, he was granted pardonand  his statement was recorded under s. 164 of the Code  ofCriminal  Procedure on the same day.  Therefore it would  belegitimate  for	 the accused to contend that  the  additionsmade by the approver in his subsequent statement may be	 theresult	of promise held out to him that he would be  grantedpardon.	  Apart	 from  this consideration, in  view  of	 thepositive  statements  made  by the  approver  in  his  firstrecorded statement, there can be no doubt124962that  the subsequent allegations against Harbans  Singh	 areimprovements  and are the result of his decision to  involveHarbans Singh in the commission of the offence.	 If this wasa  case	 where	the  statements	 made  by  the	approver  onsubsequent  occasions  merely added details which  were	 notincluded in the first statement, it may perhaps have been  adifferent matter.  It is true that omissions have not alwaysthe same significance as contradictions; but in the  presentcase it is patent that the two sets of statements are whollyinconsistent and irreconcilable and that obviously leads  toa  very serious infirmity in the character of  the  witness.It  is	indeed	to be regretted that the  attention  of	 thelearned	 Judges	 of  the High Court was not  drawn  to	thisaspect	of the matter and they were not invited to  considerthe  initial  question	as to whether  the  approver,  BantaSingh, was a reliable witness at all.  Every person who is acompetent witness is not a reliable witness and the test  ofreliability has to be satisfied by an approver all the	morebefore	the  question of corroboration of  his	evidence  isconsidered by criminal courts. If  the  evidence  of the approver is	discarded  as  beingunreliable  the case against Harbans Singh  must  inevitablyfail.  No doubt there are some circumstances against him  onwhich the prosecution relies.  The evidence of Rakha (P.W.8)would show that Harbans Singh and the other accused  personswere  concerned	 with the purchase of a pistol	from  Rakha.Incidentally this pistol has not been used in the commissionof the offence at all and that, in the circumstances, it  isdifficult  to  explain.	 However, the purchase of  a  pistolfrom  Rakha  may merely raise a	 suspicion  against  HarbansSingh but suspicions, however strong, cannot take the  placeof proof.  Harbans Singh had injuries on his person and	 theconduct	 of Harbans Singh soon after the commission  of	 theoffence	 was  very  suspicious.	  That	again  may  raise  asuspicion against Harbans Singh but without the basis of theapprover's evidence the suspicious circumstances can play noeffective  part	 in  a criminal	 trial.	  The  discovery  ofclothes alleged to have been made at963the  place  of Gurdev Kaur cannot be  pressed  into  serviceagainst	 Harbans Singh because Gurdev Kaur herself  has	 notbeen examined and the importance of the recovery of a kirpanand  a	red  scabbard  from the	 spot  cannot  obviously  beexaggerated.   In  our opinion, there is no  doubt  whateverthat, if the approver's evidence is rejected as	 unreliable,the  other evidence on which the prosecution relied  againstHarbans Singh cannot possibly sustain his conviction of	 theoffence	 of  murder.   We must,	 therefore,  hold  that	 thefinding	 of  the learned Judges of the High Court  that	 theoffence	 of murder has been proved against Harbans Singh  isvitiated  by  a	 serious infirmity to  which  we  have	justreferred  and must be reversed.	 If the learned Judges	havefailed to address themselves to the initial question of	 lawbefore	dealing with the merits of the approver and  if,  indealing	 with  his evidence, they have failed to  take	intoaccount	 the  glaring  and obvious  inconsistencies  in	 theaccount	 given by the approver, it is open to the  appellantto  challenge  the  validity of their  conclusion.   In	 theresult,	 the  appeal  preferred by  Harbans  Singh  must  beallowed, the order of conviction and sentence passed againsthim  must  be  set  aside  and	he  must  be  acquitted	 anddischarged. That  takes us to the case of accused No. 3, Sarwan  Singh.We  have  already pointed out that the order  of  convictionpassed against Sarwan Singh is in the words of the  judgmentof  the	 High Court based on the fact that "  there  is	 theevidence  of  the approver and it is corroborated  in  everyparticular  by	his own confessional statement	".  Besides,there  is other circumstantial evidence to  which  referencehas already been made in narrating the prosecution story  atthe beginning of this judgment.	 It would at once be noticedthat,  if we come to the conclusion that the approver is  anunreliable  witness,  the  basis  of  the  evidence  of	 theapprover  on  which  the learned Judges of  the	 High  Courtproceeded  even while dealing with the case  against  SarwanSingh has been shaken.	If, in our opinion, the approver  isunworthy  of  credit,  then  it would  not  be	possible  toconsider the question964of  the	 corroboration that his evidence receives  from	 theconfessional statement made by Sarwan Singh himself.  It is,however, true that Sarwan Singh has made a confession and inlaw  it	 would be open to the court to convict him  on	thisconfession itself though he has retracted his confession  ata  later  stage.  Nevertheless usually courts  require	somecorroboration	to   the   confessional	  statement   beforeconvicting  an	accused person on such	a  statement.	Whatamount	of corroboration would be necessary in such  a	casewould  always be a question of fact to be determined in	 thelight  of  the circumstances of each case.  In	the  presentcase, the learned Sessions Judge has considered the questionabout  the  voluntary character of the	confession  made  bySarwan	Singh  and has found in favour of  the	prosecution.The judgment of the High Court shows that the learned Judgesagreed	with  the  view of the learned	trial  Judge  mainlybecause	 the  evidence of the Magistrate  who  recorded	 theconfession  appeared to the learned Judges to show that	 theconfession  was	 voluntary.   It  is  this  view  which	  isseriously  challenged before us by Mr. Mathur on  behalf  ofSarwan Singh.  Prima facie whether or not the confession  isvoluntary  would  be  a question of fact  and  we  would  bereluctant to interfere with a finding on such a question  offact  unless we are satisfied that the impugned finding	 hasbeen  reached without applying the true and  relevant  legaltests  in the matter.  As in the case of the evidence  givenby  the	 approver, so too unfortunately in the case  of	 theconfession  of	Sarwan Singh the attention  of	the  learnedJudges	below  does not appear to have been  drawn  to	somesalient and grave features which have a material bearing  onthe   question	 about	the  voluntary	character   of	 theconfession.  Sarwan Singh was arrested on November 25.	 Hisclothes	 were found blood-stained and he is alleged to	havebeen  inclined	to  help  the  prosecution  by	making	 thestatement  which  led  to  the	discovery  of  incriminatingarticles.   All	 this happened on the 25th itself  and	yet,without any ostensible explanation or justification,  SarwanSingh was kept in police custody until November 30.  That isone fact965which  is to be borne in mind in dealing with the  voluntarycharacter  of his confession.  What happened on November  30is  still more significant.  On this day he was sent to	 theMagistrate  to	record	his  confessional  statement.	 Theevidence of the Magistrate Mr. Grover shows that the accusedwas  produced  before him at about 2-30 p.m.  He  was  givenabout  half-an-hour to( think about the statement  which  hewas  going  to	make and soon  thereafter  the	confessionalstatement was recorded.	 It is true that the Magistrate	 didput to the accused the questions prescribed by the circularsissued	by  the	 High Court of Punjab.	Even  so,  when	 thelearned	 Magistrate was asked why he did not give more	timeto  the	 accused  before  his  confessional  statement	 wasrecorded, his reply was frank and honest.  He said that	 theaccused	  seemed   to  insist  upon   making   a   statementstraightaway.	The Police Sub-Inspector who had  taken	 theaccused	 to  the Magistrate was apparently standing  in	 theverandah  outside in the Magistrate's office.  The doors  ofthe  office were closed but the fact still remains that	 theSub-Inspector  was  standing outside.  The evidence  of	 theMagistrate  also  shows that, soon after the  statement	 wasfinished,  the Sub-Inspector went to the  Magistrate's	roomagain.	The person of the accused showed some injuries	and.yet  the learned Magistrate did not enquire how the  accusedcame   to  be  injured.	  It  is  in  the  light  of   thesecircumstances  that  the  question falls  to  be  consideredwhether	 the confession made by the accused can be  regardedas voluntary.  It is hardly necessary to emphasize that	 theact  of	 recording confessions under s. 164 of the  Code  ofCriminal Procedure is a very solemn act and, in	 discharginghis duties under the said section, the Magistrate must	takecare  to see that the requirements of sub-s. (3) of  s.	 164are  fully  satisfied.	It would of course be  necessary  inevery case to put the questions prescribed by the High Courtcirculars  but the questions intended to be put under sub  -s. (3) of s. 164 should not be allowed to become a matter ofa mere mechanical enquiry.  No element of casualness  shouldbe  allowed to creep in and the Magistrate should  be  fullysatisfied that the confessional statement which the accused966wants  to  make	 is  in fact  and  in  substance  voluntary.Incidentally, we may invite the attention of the High  Courtof -Punjab to the fact that the circulars issued by the HighCourt  of  Punjab  in  the matter of  the  procedure  to  befollowed,  and	questions  to  be put  to  the	accused,  byMagistrates  recording	confessions  under  s.	164  may  berevised	 and suitable amendments and additions made  in	 thesaid  circulars in the light of similar circulars issued  bythe  High Courts of Uttar Pradesh, Bombay and  Madras.	 Thewhole  object of putting questions to an accused person	 whooffers to confess is to obtain an assurance of the fact thatthe  confession is not caused by any inducement,  threat  orpromise	 having reference to the charge against the  accusedperson	as  mentioned in s. 24 of the Indian  Evidence	Act.There  can  be	no doubt that, when  an	 accused  person  isproduced before the Magistrate by the investigating officer,it  is	of utmost importance that the mind  of	the  accusedperson	 should	 be  completely	 freed	from  any   possibleinfluence  of the police and the effective way	of  securingsuch freedom from fear to the accused person is to send	 himto  jail  custody  and give him adequate  time	to  considerwhether	 he  should  make a confession	at  all.   It  wouldnaturally be difficult to lay down any hard and fast rule asto the time which should be allowed to an accused person  inany  given case.  However, speaking generally, it would,  wethink, be reasonable to insist upon giving an accused personat least 24 hours to decide whether or not he should make  aconfession.   Where there may be reason to suspect that	 theaccused has been persuaded or coerced to make a	 confession,even  longer period may have to be given to him	 before	 hisstatement is recorded.	In our opinion, in the circumstancesof this case it is impossible to accept the view that enoughtime  was  given to the accused to think  over	the  matter.Indeed, any Magistrate with enough criminal experience wouldhave immediately decided to give longer time to Sarwan Singhin the present case for the obvious reason that Sarwan Singhappeared  to the learned Magistrate to be keen on  making  aconfession straightaway.  The learned Magistrate himself hasfairly stated that he would967have given him longer time but for his insistence to make  aconfession  without delay.  This insistence on the  part  ofSarwan	Singh to make a confession immediately	should	haveput the learned Magistrate on his guard because it obviouslybore,	 traces	  of   police	pressure   or	 inducement.Unfortunately,	the  effect of the failure  of	the  learnedMagistrate to' grant enough time to the accused to  considerthe  matter has not been considered by the learned  SessionsJudge  and has been wholly ignored by the learned Judges  ofthe  High  Court.  Besides, in neither court below  has	 anyattention  been paid to the fact that Sarwan Singh  appearedto   have   been  kept	in  police   custody   without	 anyjustification between November 26 and November 30.  We	havecarefully considered all the relevant facts bearing on	thisquestion  and we see no escape from the conclusion that	 thefailure of the learned Judges of the High Court to take intoaccount these material facts has introduced a serious  legalinfirmity  in their conclusion that the confession  made  bySarwan	Singh  is voluntary.  That is why we think  we	mustreverse this conclusion.There  is, besides, another fact which is equally  fatal  tothe. prosecution case.	Even if the confession is held to bevoluntary,  it must also be established that the  confessionis true and for the purpose of dealing with this question itwould be necessary to examine the confession and compare  itwith   the  rest  of  the  prosecution	evidence   and	 theprobabilities  in the case.  In our opinion,  some  materialpoints mentioned in the confessional statement are not shownto  be true.  Sarwan Singh says that when Gurdev  Singh	 wasassaulted  he  and his brother Harbans	Singh  were  walkingtogether.   On the other hand the prosecution story is	thatHarbans	 Singh had first contacted his accomplices  and	 hadtold  them that he would send Gurdev Singh towards the	spotwhere the accomplices would lie in wait for him.  The  storyfurther is that when Gurdev Singh suspected that there	weresome  people  near  about he shouted to	 Harbans  Singh	 andbefore	Harbans	 Singh came on the spot assault	 had  begun.This part of the prosecution story as deposed to by the968approver is inconsistent with the material statement in	 theconfession.  According to the confession, Dial Singh gave  aDang blow to Gurdev Singh on the head from the front.	Thisstatement is not borne out by medical evidence.	 There	doesnot  appear to be a corresponding injury on the head of	 thevictim.	 Sarwan Singh says that he took the kirpan which wasfirst  used  by Harbans Singh and gave two blows  to  GurdevSingh  on his thigh.  This statement again is not borne	 outby  the medical evidence -about the injuries on the body  ofthe  victim.  Similarly, the statement of Sarwan Singh	thatthe  handle of the kirpan was broken and he got	 his  fingerinjured with it is not easily reconcilable with the  medicalevidence  about	 the  injury  itself.	Unfortunately  thesediscrepancies  between	the confessional statement  and	 themain  prosecution  evidence given by the approver  have	 notbeen  noticed  by  the learned Judges  of  the	High  Court.Indeed,	  after	 having	 found	that  the   confession	 wasvoluntary,it  appears  to have been assumed by	the  learnedJudges	that  the  confession  was true	 and  that,  in	 ouropinion,  is another infirmity in the conclusion reached  bythe High Court.  That leaves the other circumstances which have been provedagainst Sarwan Singh to be considered.	There were  injurieson his person.	They are thus described by the doctor:-"  1. A superficial incised wound with a scab, 3/8" x  1/12"on the left side of the face, just above the left moustache. 2.An abrasion with a scab 1/2" x 1/4" on the outer  surfaceof the middle digit of the left ring finger. 3. An abrasion with a scab 1/8" x 1/8" on the outer surfaceof the middle digit of the left little finger.4.An  abrasion with a scab 1/4" x 1/4" on the outer  surfaceof  the	 terminal  inter-digital joint of  the	left  littlefinger.All the injuries were simple and of about two days duration.Injury No. 1 was caused by sharpedged weapon and the rest bysome blunt weapon."969In his cross-examination Dr. Singh admitted that injury	 No.I could have been caused by razor blade as suggested by	 thecounsel for Sarwan Singh and injuries Nos. 2 to 4 could havebeen  caused  by rubbing against some  hard  substance.	  Inother  words, on medical evidence it is difficult to  rejectthe  explanation of the accused as unreasonable or  palpablyuntrue.	  Then we have the evidence of blood-stains  on	 theshirt  and chadar worn by Sarwan Singh.	 If the	 explanationgiven by Sarwan Singh about his injuries is not unreasonablethen  the  presence of blood-stains on his dress  cannot  beseriously pressed against him.	The evidence of Rakha  aboutthe negotiations and purchase of a pistol from him and aboutthe  part of Sarwan Singh in that transaction no  doubt	 maysuggest that Sarwan Singh was associated with the  criminalsbut  that  is  very far from proving the  charge  of  murderagainst him.   Incidentally, as we have already observed, ifthe  pistol was purchased it is difficult to understand	 whyit  was	 not used.  Then we have the evidence of  the  shoeswhich were found on the spot. The evidence of the shoe-makerSanta  Singh  suggests that he had identified  the  pair  ofshoes  as  belonging  to  Sarwan  Singh	 that  very   night.According to him, he has been manufacturing shoes like	thispair  though  not on a large scale'  Unfortunately,  in	 hisexamination  under s. 342 of the Code, no question had	beenput  to Sarwan Singh about these shoes.	 It is not  unlikelythat  Sarwan Singh may have offered to demonstrate that	 theshoes  did not fit in with his feet.  In any event,  failureto  give him an opportunity to explain the circumstances  byputting	 an  appropriate  question  to	him  under  s.	 342justifies his argument that this circumstance should not  beused  against  him.   Besides, like the	 evidence  given  byRakha, the identity of the shoes would also be a very  minorcircumstance  in relation to the charge of murder for  whichSarwan	Singh  is being tried.	The result is that,  if	 theapprover's  evidence is discarded as unworthy of credit	 andhis own retracted confession is excluded from  considerationas  not	 being voluntary or  true,  whatever  circumstantialevidence remains is obviously insufficient to125970bring  home to Sarwan Singh the charge framed  against	him.If that be the true position, we must hold that the  learnedJudges of the High Court were in error in convicting  SarwanSingh of the offence of murder.	 It is no doubt a matter  ofregret	that a foul cold-blooded and cruel murder  like	 thepresent should go unpunished.  It may be as Mr. Gopal  Singhstrenuously  urged  before us that there is  an	 element  oftruth in the prosecution story against both the	 appellants.Mr.  Gopal  Singh contended that considered as a whole,	 theprosecution story may be true; but between 'may be true' and'must be true' there is inevitably a long distance to traveland  the  whole of this distance must be covered  by  legal,reliable  and  unimpeachable evidence.	 We  have  carefullyconsidered  all	 the arguments which Mr. Gopal	Singh  urgedbefore	us;  but  we do not think it would  be	possible  toregard	the approver as a reliable witness or to  hold	thatthe confession of Sarwan Singh is voluntary or true.  In theresult,	 the  appeal  preferred	 by  Sarwan  Singh  must  beallowed, the order of conviction and sentence passed againsthim  must  be  set  aside  and	he  must  be  acquitted	 anddischarged.		Apppeals allowed.