PETITIONER:LUHAR AMRIT LAL NAGJI	Vs.RESPONDENT:DOSHI JAYANTILAL JETRALAL AND OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:04/05/1960BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.GUPTA, K.C. DASCITATION: 1960 AIR  964 CITATOR INFO : R	    1967 SC 727	 (3)ACT:Hindu Law-Father's anticedent debt-Pious obligation of sonsto pay-Onus.HEADNOTE:A Hindu father, speculating in gold and silver, lost heavilyand sought to recoup by borrowing on a mortgage.  The  mort-gagee obtained a decree and sought to execute it by sale  ofthe  mortgaged property.  The sons and the wife sued  for  adeclaration  that the decree was not binding since the	debtthough	antecedent  was immoral	 (avyavaharik).	  The  trialcourt found in their favour and on appeal the District judgeaffirmed its decision.	On second appeal the High Court heldthat it was for the plaintiff s to prove not merely that theantecedent debt was immoral but also that the mortgagee	 hadnotice of the said character of the debt and since they	 hadled  no	 evidence  to discharge that  onus,  they  were	 notentitled  to a decree.	The plaintiffs came up on appeal  byspecial leave:Held, that the High Court took the correct view of the lawand the appeal must fail.Any  attempt to test the correctness of the principles	laiddown  by the Privy Council in the case of Suraj Bunsi  Koer,which have held the field for more than three quarters of  acentury, purely in the light of ancient Sanskrit texts wouldnow  not  merely be hit by the principle of  state  decisis,which must inevitably come into operation, but would also beinexpedient and futile.Suraj Bunsi Koer v. Sheo Proshad Singh, (1879)) L.R. 6	I.A.88 and Brij Narain v. Mangla Prasad (1923) L.k. 51 I.A. 129,applied.The principles laid down in those two cases make no distinc-tion  between  an  alienation made for the  payment  of	 thefather's antecedent debt and an alienation made in executionof  a decree passed against him and in both cases  the	sonsmust prove not only the immoral character of the  antecedentdebt but also the knowledge of the alience.   Case-law considered.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 121 of 1956.Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order a  datedJanuary	 29,  1953, of the former Saurashtra High  Court  inCivil  Second  Appeal  No. 82 of 1952, arising	out  of	 thejudgment  and decree dated April 29, 1952, of  the  DistrictJudge, Rajkot, in Civil AppealNo. 4 of 1952.843W.   S. Barlingay and A. G. Ratnaparkhi, for the appellant.M. L. Jain, for respondent No. 1.1960.  May 4. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR,	 J.-This appeal by special leave  raises  aninteresting question of Hindu Law.  If a Hindu son wants  tochallenge  an  alienation  made by his	father	to  pay	 hisantecedent  debt is it necessary for him to prove  not	onlythat the said antecedent debt was immoral but also that	 thealienee	 had  notice of the immoral character  of  the	saiddebt?  The High Court has held that the son must prove	boththe  immoral character of the debt and notice of it  to	 thealienee;  the correctness of that view is challenged  beforeus by the appellants in the present appeal.The  appellants	 are  two brothers,  Amritlal  and  MohanlalNagji,	and  their  mother,  Bai  Jakal	 Arjan.	  The  threeappellants  and	 respondent 2, Nagji Govind, the  father  ofappellants  1  and  2  and  the	 husband  of  appellant	  3,constitute an undivided Hindu family.  Respondent 2 executeda mortgage deed in favour of respondent 1, Jayantilal Doshi,in respect of the joint family property for Rs. 2,000.	Thisdocument  was  executed	 on  February  5,  1946.   In  1950,respondent  1 sued respondent 2 on his mortgage, obtained  adecree	for sale and filed an application for execution	 forsale  of  the  mortgaged  property.   Sale  was	 accordinglyordered to be held.  At that stage the appellants filed	 thepresent	 suit on April 30, 1951, and claimed  a	 declarationthat the decree passed in the mortgage suit (Civil Suit	 No.589  of	 1949)	in  favour  of	respondent  1  and   againstrespondent  2 was not binding in respect of the 3/4th  shareof the appellants in the mortgaged property; they also askedfor  a	perpetual injunction restraining respondent  1	fromexecuting  the	said decree in respect of their	 share.	  Tothis  suit the mortgagor, respondent 2, was impleaded  as  aparty.In their plaint the appellants have stated that respondent 2had  speculated	 in gold and silver and had thereby  lost  alarge  amount  of  money  which he  sought  to	make  up  byborrowing  amounts  from  several creditors.   One  of	suchcreditors was Dharsi Shamji844to whom Rs. 2,000 were payable by respondent 2. According tothe  appellants the impugned mortgage had been	executed  byrespondent 2 for the payment of the said debt of Rs.  2,000,and  since  the	 said debt was immoral	or  avyavaharik	 theappellants were not bound by it.The claim was resisted by both respondent 1 and respondent 2who  pleaded  that the mortgage had been  executed  for	 thepayment	 of debts which were binding on the family and	thatthere  was no substance in the plea of immoral debts  raisedby  the	 appellants.  It was also alleged by them  that	 themortgaged  property  was not the property of  the  undividedHindu family.On  these  pleadings  the  trial  court	 framed	 appropriateissues.	  It  found  that the  mortgaged  property  was	 thecoparcenary  property of the family, that the  mortgage-deedin  question had been executed to pay off a debt  which	 wasimmoral and that in consequence the mortgage was not bindingagainst	 the appellants.  According to the trial  court	 thedebt  contracted by respondent 2 to pay the losses  incurredby him in speculative transactions must be held to have beencontracted for illegal and immoral purposes and as such	 thesubsequent  alienation	for  the payment of  the  said	debtcannot	bind the appellants.  The trial court also  observedthat  respondent 1 had not stepped into the witness  box  togive  evidence to show that he had made any enquiries  aboutthe existence of any antecedent debts payable by  respondent2.  In	the  result the suit filed  by	the  appellants	 wasdecreed.  Against the said decree respondent  preferred.  anappeal	before	the District Judge, but the  District  Judgeagreed	with  all the findings made by the trial  court	 anddismissed the said appeal.  Respondent	then took the matterbefore	the High Court-of Saurashtra in second appeal.	 TheHigh  Court  agreed  that the  mortgaged  property  was	 theproperty of the joint Hindu family and that respondent 1 hadmade  no attempt to prove any enquiry on his part before  heentered into the transaction.  The High Court did not  thinkit necessary to consider whether the antecedent debt due  toDharsi Shamji, for the repayment of which the impugned845mortgage  was  created, was in law immoral  or	illegal,  itproceeded to deal with the appeal on the assumption that thesaid  debt was illegal or immoral.  On that  assumption	 theHigh  Court considered the material principles of Hindu	 Lawand  held that it was for the appellants to prove  not	onlythat  the antecedent debt was immoral or illegal,  but	alsothat  respondent 1 had, notice of the said character of	 thedebt;  and  since  the appellants had  led  no	evidence  todischarge  this	 onus they were not entitled  to  claim	 anyrelief	against	 respondent 1. On this	finding	 the  secondappeal	preferred  by respondent  was allowed and  the	suitfiled by the appellants was ordered to be dismissed.  It  isagainst	 this decree that the appellants have come  to	thisCourt by special leave.On behalf of the appellants Dr. Barlingay has urged that theprinciples of Hindu Law do not justify the view taken by theHigh  Court that the appellants had to prove  the  alienee'sknowledge  about  the immoral character	 of  the  antecedentdebt.  He concedes that the judicial decisions on this pointare  against  his contention; but he argues  that  there  ispaucity of case law on the subject, and that, having  regardto  the	 importance of the point raised by  him,  we  shouldexamine	 the true legal position by reference to  the  textsrather than by reference to judicial decisions.	 Let us thenset  out  the  appellant's argument  based  on	the  textualprovisions of Hindu Law.The  doctrine of pious obligation under which sons are	heldliable to discharge their father's debts is based solely  onreligious  considerations; it is thought that if a  person'sdebts  are not paid and he dies in a state  of	indebtednesshis  soul may have to face evil consequences, and it is	 theduty  of his sons to save him from such	 evil  consequences.The  basis  of the doctrine is thus spiritual and  its	soleobject is to confer spiritual benefit on the father.  It  isnot  intended in any sense for the benefit of the  creditor.As  has been observed by the Privy Council in Sat Narain  v.Das  (1) this doctrine " was not based on any necessity	 forthe protection of third parties but was based on(1) (1936) L.R. 63 I.A. 384, 395.110846the pious obligation of the sons to see their father's debtspaid."This doctrine inevitably postulates that the father's  debtswhich  it is the pious obligation of the sons to repay	mustbe  vyavaharik.	  If  the debts are not	 vyavaharik  or	 area  vyavaharik  the doctrine of pious  obligation  cannot  beinvoked.   The expression 'avyavaharik' which  is  generallyused  in  judicial decisions has been based on the  text  ofUsanas which has been quoted by Mitakshara in commenting  onthe relevant text of Yajnavalkya (1).  According to  Usanas,whatever  is not vyavaharik has not to be paid by  the	son.'Na  vyavaharikam'  are	 the  words  used  by  Usanas,	 andput in a positive form they mean 'avyavaharik'.	  Colebrookehas  translated	 these words as meaning " debt for  a  causerepugnant  to  good  morals ".	These  words  have  receiveddifferent  interpretations in several decisions.   Sometimesthey  are rendered as meaning "a debt which as a decent	 andrespectable  man  the father ought not to have	incurred  ":Darbar Khachar v. Khachar Hansar(2); or, "not lawful,  usualor customary": Chhakauri Mahton v. Ganga Prasad (3) ; or,  "not supportable as valid by legal arguments and on which  noright  could  be established in a court of  justice  in	 thecreditor's  favour ": Venugopala Naidu v. Ramanathan  Chetty(4).   But  it appears that in Hemraj v. Khemchand  (5)	 thePrivy  Council	has,  on  the  whole,  preferred  to   treatColebrooke's  translation as making the nearest approach  tothe real interpretation of the word used by Usanas; whatevermay  be the exact denotation of the word, it is	 clear	thatthe  debt answering the said description is not such a	debtas  the son is bound to pay, and so as soon as it  is  shownthat  the debt is immoral the doctrine of  pious  obligationcannot be invoked in support of such a debt.In this connection, it has also been urged by Dr.  Barlingaythat  the  onus	 placed on the sons  to	 prove	the  immoralcharacter of the debt is already very heavy.  In dischargingthe said onus the sons are required to prove not merely thattheir father who(1) Yajnavalkya, ii, 47.      (2) (1908) I.L.R. 32 Bom. 348,351(3)  (1911) I.L.R. 39 Cal. 862, 868, 860. (4) (1912)  I.L.R.37 Mad. 458, 460,(5) I.L.R. [1943] All. 727.847contracted the impugned debt lived an extravagant or immorallife but they are required to establish a direct  connectionbetween the immorality of the father and the impugned  debt.If  this  onus is made still more onerous by  requiring	 thesons to prove that the alienee had knowledge of the  immoralcharacter  of the antecedent debt, it would  virtually	makethe  sons' task impossible, and notwithstanding	 the  spiritunderlying the doctrine of pious obligation the sons in factwould be compelled to pay the immoral or impious  antecedentdebt  of their father.	That is why the rule which  requiresthat  the sons should prove the knowledge of the alienee  isinconsistent  with  the	 basis	of  the	 doctrine  of  piousobligation.  Thus presented the argument is no doubt  simpleand  prima facie attractive.  The question which we have  toconsider is whether we should attempt the task of  examiningthe  texts and determining the true effect of  the  originalprovisions of Hindu Law in spite of the fact that the  pointraised	is  covered by judicial decisions  which  have	beentreated for many years as laying down the correct law on thesubject.Before	answering this question it is necessary to  considerthe relevant judicial decisions.  In 1874, the Privy Councilhad  occasion  to  consider  this branch  of  Hindu  Law  inGirdharee Lal v. Kantoo Lal and Muddun Thakoor v. Kantoo Lal(1).   It appears that Kantoo Lal and his minor	 cousin	 hadbrought	 a suit to recover possession of certain  propertiesbelonging  to their family which had been sold	respectivelyby  a private sale and at court auction.  The  private	salehad  taken  place on July 28, 1856, and the  deed  had	beenexecuted by the fathers of the two' plaintiffs.	 The case ofthe plaintiffs was that they were not bound by the  impugnedtransaction.  The Principal Sudder Ameen dismissed the	suitbut  the  High Court set aside that  decision  and,  awardedKantoo	Lal one-half of his father's share.  The claim	madeby  the other plaintiff was dismissed on the ground that  hehad not been born at the time of the, impugned	transaction.The  decree passed, in, favour of Kantoo Lal was  challengedby  the alienee before the Privy Council.   Evidence  showedthat at the(1)  (1874) L.R. 1 I.A. 321.818time  when  the	 sale deed was executed a  decree  had	beenobtained  against Bhikharee Lal, the father of	Kantoo	Lal,upon a bond executed by him in favour of his creditor and anexecution  had issued against him upon which the  right	 andshare  in the property had been attached.  It was  thereforethought	 necessary  to	raise  money  to  pay  the  debt  ofBhikharee Lal and get rid of the execution.  It was on thesefacts that the Privy Council had to consider whether  KantooLal  was justified in challenging the binding  character  ofthe sale transaction.  In dealing with this point the  PrivyCouncil	 referred with approval to the rule which  had	beenenunciated  by	the Board earlier in the  case	of  HunoomanPersad Panday v. Mussummat Babooee Munraj Koonweree The ruleof  Hindu  Law had been thus stated by Lord  Justice  KnightBruce  in that judgment : " The freedom of the son from	 theobligation  to discharge the father's debt, has	 respect  tothe nature of the debt, and not to the nature of the estate,whether ancestral or acquired by the creator of the debt  ".Then  the Privy Council held that if the debt of the  fatherhad been contracted for immoral purpose the son might not beunder  any pious obligation to pay it; but that was not	 thecase before the Board.	It had not been shown that the	bondupon which the decree was obtained was for immoral  purpose;and  on the other band, it appealed that an action bad	beenbrought	 on  the bond, a decree had been passed	 on  it	 andthere was nothing whatever to show that the debt was taintedwith immorality.  The Privy Council also noticed that KantooLal  had brought the action probably at the  instigation  ofthe father, and, we may add, that is many times the  featureof  such litigation.  On these facts the Privy	Council	 setaside  the  decree passed by the High Court  and  held	thatKantoo	Lal was not entitled to any relief It would thus  beseen  that  this  decision  merely  shows  that	 where	 anyalienation  has been effected by the father for the  paymentof  his antecedent debt and the said antecedent debt is	 notshown to be immoral the son cannot challenge the validity ofthe alienation.	 Since the antecedent debt was not shown  tobe immoral no question arose as to(1)  (1856) 6 M.I.A. 393,421.849what  would  be the nature of the onus which the  son  wouldhave to discharge if the antecedent debt is in fact shown tobe immoral.In   regard  to	 the  auction  sale  which  the	  plaintiffschallenged  in	that  suit the Privy  Council  held  that  apurchaser under an execution is surely not bound to go	backbeyond the decree to ascertain whether the  court  was rightin giving the decree, or having given it, in putting up	 theproperty  for  sale under an execution	upon  it.   Evidenceshowed that the auction purchaser acted bona fide, had	madeenquiries  and	was  satisfied	that  the  decree  had	beenproperly  passed and purchased the property at auction	saleon payment of valuable consideration.  On these facts it washeld  that the plaintiffs were not entitled to	any  relief.This decision also was not concerned with the position	thatwould  arise if the antecedent debt had in fact been  provedto be immoral.That question arose before the Privy Council in Suraj  BunsiKoer  v.  Sheo Proshad Singh(1).  In that case an  ex  partedecree for money had been obtained against a Hindu  governedby  Mitakshara	on a mortgage bond, the	 property  mortgagedbeing  ancestral immoveable estate.  Under the	said  decreethe  mortgaged property was attached and  the  decree-holdersought	to  bring the said property to sale.  Prior  to	 theexecution  sale, however, the judgment-debtor died  and	 hisinfant sons and co-heirs filed a petition of objections; butthey  were  referred to a regular suit.	 In the	 suit  whichthey filed they challenged the binding character of the debtand   claimed  appropriate  relief  against  the   executioncreditor and the purchasers.  The Privy Council held that asbetween	 the  infant  sons Of the judgment  debtor  and	 theexecution  creditor  neither  the  sons	 nor  the  ancestralimmoveable  properties	in their hands was  liable  for	 thefather's  debt; and as regards the purchasers, it  was	heldthat,  since  they had purchased after objections  had	beenfiled  by  the plaintiffs, they must be taken  to  have	 hadnotice actual or constructive thereof and therefore to	havepurchased  with the knowledge of the plaintiffs'  claim	 andsubject	 to  the result of the suit to which they  had	beenreferred.(1)  (1879) L.R. 6 I.A. 88.850The  subordinate  judge	 decreed the claim,  set  aside	 themortgage  bond,	 the decree thereon and the  execution	salethereof	 By this decision the mortgage, the decree  and	 theexecution  sale	 in regard to the alienor's share  had	alsobeen  set  aside.  The High Court,  however,  reversed	thatjudgment  and dismissed the suit.  The Privy Council  partlyallowed	 the  appeal preferred by the plaintiffs,  and	heldthat  the shares of the plaintiffs were not bound either  bythe  mortgage deed, the decree or the execution sale.	Thusit  is clear that in that case the Privy Council  held	thatthe  antecedent debt was for immoral purposes and  that	 theauction purchaser had notice of it.  But in dealing with thequestion  of  law  raised before it the	 Privy	Council	 hadoccasion to examine the relevant provisions of Hindu Law andthe  decisions	bearing	 on  them.   Amongst  the  decisionsconsidered  by	the  Privy Council was the  case  of  KantooLal(1).	  Sir James Colvile, who delivered the	judgment  ofthe  Board,  referred  to  the case of	Kantoo	La  (1)	 andobserved that " this case then, which is a decision of	thistribunal,   is	 undoubtedly   an   authority	for    thesepropositions:  1st that where joint ancestral  property	 haspassed	out  of a joint family, either	under  a  conveyanceexecuted by a father in consideration of an antecedent debt,or in order to raise money to pay off an antecedent debt, orunder a sale in execution of a decree for the father's debt,his  sons,  by reason of their duty to	pay  their  father'sdebts,	cannot recover that property, unless they show	thatthe debts were contracted for immoral purposes, and that thepurchasers  had	 notice that they were	so  contracted;	 and2ndly,	that  the  purchasers at an  execution	sale,  beingstrangers  to  the suit, if they have not  notice  that	 thedebts  were  so contracted, are not bound  to  make  inquirybeyond	what appears on the face of the proceedings  ".	 Thefirst proposition which has been laid down in this  judgmentas  deduced  from  Kantoo  Lal's  case	(1)  is	 clear	 andunambiguous.   Where ancestral property has  been  alienatedeither	under  a  conveyance  executed	by  the	 father	  inconsideration  of an antecedent debt, or in order  to  raisemoney  to  pay off an antecedent debt, or under	 a  sale  inexecution of(1)  (1874) L.R. 1 I.A. 321.851a  decree for the father's debt, the sons have to prove	 notonly  that the antecedent debts were immoral but  also	thatthe  purchasers	 had notice that they  were  so	 contracted.With respect, it is open to argument whether the	 twopropositions inevitably arise from the earlier	  decisionof the Privy Council in Kantoo Lal's case    but since	1879when this proposition was thus,enunciated it has  apparentlybeen  accepted	by all the courts in India  as	the  correctstatement of Hindu Law on the point.In  Sat	 Narain	 v. Behari Lal (2) while  dealing  with	 thequestion  as  to whether the property of  the  joint  familyconsisting  of an insolvent Hindu father and his  sons	doesnot,  by virtue of the father's adjudication  as  insolvent,became	vested in the official assignee, Sir John Edge,	 hasincidentally   referred	 to  these  two	 propositions	withapproval.   No decision has been cited before us  where	 thecorrectness  of these propositions has ever been doubted  orquestioned.In  this connection it may be relevant to recall  that	soonafter the Privy Council pronounced its judgment in the	caseof Kantoo Lal (1) Bbattacharyya, in his Tagore Law  Lectureson  the	 " Law relating to Joint Hindu Family  "  (pp.	549,550), examined the said decision and observed that " many inthe profession think that the case dealt a death-blow to theinstitution of Hindu family, that it has done away with	 theessential feature of that institution, that it has  renderedthe father independent of the control of his sons in dealingwith ancestral property which had all along been looked uponas  a  common fund belonging as much to the sons as  to	 thefather".  Having thus expressed his surprise at the decisionMr.  Bhattacharyya  also added that " the  shifting  of	 theburden	of  proof to the son imposed upon him  a  difficultywhich is almost practically insuperable ". Nevertheless,  hehas  not  failed  to  take notice  of.	the  fact  that	 thepromulgation of the principle which was adopted by the PrivyCouncil	 had  become  almost a necessity to put	 an  end  toserious	 abuse	which  had become  rife	 in  the  Mitaksharadistricts;  and	 he  has added that  "in  those	 places	 thefathers	 of families knowing well that ancestral  propertieswere secure against the claims of their own(1) (1874) L.R.1 L.A. 321. (2) (1924) L.R. 52 I.A. 22.852creditors  bad	established  almost  a	regular	 system	  ofinveigling  innocent persons of substance to lend  money  tothem  and  when a decree was obtained  and  properties	wereattached they used to put forward  their sons to contest thecreditor's   claims   ".  According  to	  the	author	 theresuscitation by the Privy Council of the forgotten rule  ofHindu Law " served as a timely intervention to deal a death-blow  to  a  revolting practice of  systematic	fraud  Theseobservations   incidentally  explain  the  genesis  of	 thedecision  in Kantoo Lal's case (-) and give us a clear	ideaas to the mischief which the Privy Council intended to checkby laying down the said principles.Whilst we are dealing with this question we may refer to thedecision of the Privy Council in the case of Brij Narain  v.Mangla Prasad (2) where the vexed question about the  powersof  the manager and the father to bind the undivided  estatewas finally resolved by the Privy Council, and Lord Dunedin,who delivered the judgment of the Board laid down five pro-positions in that behalf in these words:(1)The	managing member of a joint undivided  estate  cannotalienate  or  burden  the  estate  qua	manager	 except	 forpurposes of necessity; but(2)  if be is the father and the other members are the sons,he  may,  by  incurring debt, so long as it is	not  for  animmoral	 purpose,  lay	the  estate  open  to  be  taken  inexecution proceeding upon a decree for payment of that debt.(3)  If he purports to burden the estate by  mortgage,	thenunless that mortgage is to discharge an antecedent debt,  itwould not bind the estate.(4)Antecedent  debt means antecedent in fact as well  as  intime,  that  is	 to  say,  that	 the  debt  must  be   trulyindependent and not part of the transaction impeached.(5)  There  is no rule that this result is affected  by	 thequestion  whether  the father, who contracted  the  debt  orburdens the estate, is alive or dead.Propositions  2, 3 and 4 with which we are concerned in	 thepresent	 appeal show that a mortgage created by	 the  fatherfor the payment of his antecedent debt(1) (1874) L.R. 1 I.A. 321.(2) (1923) L.R. 51. I.A. 129.853would bind his sons; so that, if the sons want to  challengethe  validity  of the mortgage they would have to  show	 notonly  that  the	 antecedent debt was immoral  but  that	 thealienee	 had  notice of the immoral character  of  the	saiddebt.	That  would be the result of the  first	 propositionlaid down in the case of Suraj Bunsi Koer (1).Now  the propositions laid down by the Privy Council in	 thecase  of  Brij Narain (2 ) as well as in the case  of  SurajBunsi  Koer  (1)  may be open to some  objections  based  onancient	 Hindu texts.  As Dr. Kane has pointed out, for	 thewords " antecedent debt " which were used for the first timeby  the	 Privy	Council	 in the case  of  Suraj	 Bunsi	Koer(1)there   is	nothing	 corresponding	 in   the   Sanskritauthorities,  and  that the distinction made  by  the  PrivyCouncil	 in  the case of Brij Narain (2)  between  a  simplepersonal  money debt by the father and the debt	 secured  bythe mortgage is also not borne out by the ancient texts	 andthe  commentaries alike(3).  So we go back to  the  questionwith which we began: Would it be expedient at this stage  toconsider  the  question	 purely	 in  the  light	 of  ancientSanskrit texts even though for more than three quarters of acentury	 the  decision in Suraj Bunsi Koer's  case  (1)	 hasapparently been followed without a doubt or dissent.We  have  carefully considered this matter and	we  are	 notdisposed   to  answer  this  question  in  favour   of	 theappellants.   First and foremost in cases of this  characterthe  principle	of stare decisis must inevitably  come	intooperation.   For  a  number  of	 years	transactions  as  toimmovable  property belonging to Hindu families	 have  takenplace  and  titles  passed  in favour  of  alienees  on	 theunderstanding that the propositions of law laid down by	 thePrivy Council in the case of Suraj Bunsi Koer (1)  correctlyrepresent  the true position under Hindu Law in that  behalfIt  would, we think, be inexpedient to reopen this  questionafter such a long lapse of time.Besides	 it  would  not be easy to decide  today  what	,therelevant Sanskrit texts really provide in this(1)  (1879) L.R. 6 I.A. 88.(2)   (1973) L.R. 51 I.A. 120.(3)  "	History	 of Dharmasastra "-By Dr, P. V.	 Kane,	Vol.III, P. 450.854matter.	  It is well-known that though the Smriti texts	 aregiven a place of pride among the sources of Hindu Law, inthe  development of Hindu Law sadachar or approved  conduct,which  is another source, has played an	 important  part(1).The  existence	of different schools of Hindu law  and	sub-schools	 clearly  brings out the fact that during  the	agesHindu  Law has made changes so as to absorb varying  customsand usages in  different places from time to time.  It is  aremarkable  feature  of the growth of Hindu Law that,  by  askilful	 adoption  of rules  of	 construction,	commentatorssuccessfully  attempted to bridge the distance	between	 theletter	of  the Smriti texts and the  existing	customs	 andusages	in  different areas and at  different  times.	Thisprocess was arrested under the British Rule; but if we	wereto  decide  to-day what the true position  under  Hindu	 Lawtexts is on the point with which we are concerned, it  wouldbe very difficult to reconcile the different texts and	cometo a definite conclusion.  In this branch of the law severalconsiderations	have been introduced by	 judicial  decisionswhich  have  substantially now become a part and  parcel  ofHindu Law as it is administered; it would, therefore, not beeasy to disengage the said considerations and seek to ascer-tain the true effect of the relevant provisions contained inancient texts considered by themselves.It  is	also well-known that, in dealing with  questions  ofHindu  Law, the Privy Council introduced  considerations  ofjustice,  equity and good conscience and the  interpretationof  the	 relevant texts sometimes was  influenced  by  theseconsiderations.	  In fact , the principle about the  bindingcharacter  of  the antecedent debts of the  father  and	 theprovisions about the enquiry to be made by the creditor haveall  been introduced on considerations of equity  and  fair-play.  When the Privy Council laid down the two propositionsin the case of Suraj Bunsi Koer (2) what was really intendedwas to protect the bona fide alienees(1)"The	 Sruti,	 the  Smriti, the approved  usage,  what  isagreeable  to  one's soul (or good  conscience)	 and  desiresprung from due deliberation, are ordained the foundation ofDharma (law) Yajnavalkya, I. 7." Whatever customs, practices and family usages prevail in acountry	 shall	be  preserved intact  when  it	comes  undersubjection by conquest"-Yajnavalkya, 1343(2) (1879) L. R. 6. I.A. 88.855against	 frivolous or collusive claims made by the  debtors'sons   challenging   the  transactions.	  Since	  the	saidpropositions  have been laid down with the object  of  doingjustice	 to the claims of bonafide alienees, we do  not	 seeany  justification  for	 disturbing  this  well	 establishedposition on academic considerations which may perhaps  ariseif we were to look for guidance to the ancient texts to-day.In   our  opinion,  if	there  are  any	 anomalies  in	 theadministration	of this branch of Hindu Law  their  solutionlies with the legislature and not with the courts.  What thecommentators  attempted	 to  do	 in  the  past	can  now  beeffectively  achieved  by the adoption	of  the	 legislativeprocess.   Therefore, we are not prepared to accede  to	 theappellants'  argument that we should attempt to	 decide	 thepoint raised by them purely in the light of ancient Sanskrittexts.It  now remains to consider some of the decisions  to  whichour  attention was invited.  In Pulavarthi Lakshmanaswami  &Ors. v. Srimat Tirumala Peddinti Tiruvengala Raghavacharyulu(1)  the  Madras  High	Court  was  dealing  with  the	debtcontracted  by the father on a promissory note	executed  byhim  for  the  payment	to his	concubine  for	meeting	 theexpenses of her grand-daughter's marriage.  The sons had  nodifficulty in proving that the debt was immoral; but it	 wasurged  on  behalf of the creditor that the  sons  could	 notsucceed	 unless the creditor's knowledge about	the  immoralcharacter of the debt had been established, and reliance wasapparently placed upon the two propositions laid down by thePrivy  Council	in the case of Suraj Bunsi Koer (2  ).	Thisplea was rejected by the High Court.  Patanjali Sastri,	 J.,as  he	then was, who delivered the judgment for  the  Courtobserved  that " the remarks made by the Privy	Council	 hadreference  to family property sold in execution of a  decreeobtained   against   the  father  as  to   which   differentconsiderations	arise,	the bona fide  purchaser  not  beingbound to go further back than the decree ". In other  words,this  decision	shows  that the principles  which  apply  toalienations   made  by	a  Hindu  father  to  ,satisfy	 hisantecedent debts cannot be extended and(1) A.I.R. 1943 Mad. 292.(3) (1879) L.R. 6 I.A. 88,856invoked to cases where the sons are challenging the  bindingcharacter  of the debts which are not antecedent and are  infact immoral.The  Allahabad	High  Court has	 had  occasion	to  considerdifferent  aspects  of this problem in	several	 cases,	 anddifferent, if not somewhat conflicting, views appear to havebeen  taken  in some of the decisions.	 We  will,  however,refer to only two decisions which are directly in point.  InKishan	Lal  v.	 Garuruddhwaja	Prasad	Singh  &  Ors.	(1),Burkitt,  J., has observed that had it been proved that	 thedebt  had been contracted for immoral purpose and  that	 theperson	who advanced the money was aware of the purpose	 forwhich  it  was being borrowed the son would  not  have	beenliable.	 This, however, is a bare statement of the law,	 andthe  judgment does not contain any discussion on the  meritsof  the proposition laid down by the judge nor does it	citethe  relevant judicial decisions bearing on the	 point.	  InMaharaj	 Singh v. Balwant Singh (2) the same High Court	 wasdealing	 with  a  mortgage  by	Sheoraj	 Singh	to  pay	 theantecedent debts of the father.	 Maharaj Singh, the  youngerbrother,  also joined in the execution of the document.	  Itwas, however, found that at the material time Maharaj  Singhwas a minor and Bo the mortgage was, as regards his interestin  the mortgaged property, absolutely void.   This  findingwas enough to reject the mortgagee's claim against the shareof  Maharaj  Singh in the mortgaged property; but  the	HighCourt proceeded to consider the alternative ground urged  byMaharaj Singh and held that it was not necessary for MaharajSingh  to  prove  notice of the	 immoral  character  of	 theantecedent  debt because the ancestral property in  questionhad  not  passed  out  of the hands  of	 the  joint  family.Maharaj	 Singh	was  defending	his  title;  he	 was  not  aplaintiff seeking to recover property, but a defender of hisinterest   in  ancestral  property  of	which  he   was	  inpossession.   These  observations show that the	 High  Courttook the view that the propositions laid down in the case ofSuraj  Bunsi Koer (3) would not apply to cases	of  mortgagebut  were  confined to cases of purchase.  We do  not  thinkthat the distinction between a purchase and a mortgage	madein this(1) (1890) I.L.R. 21 All. 238.(2) (1906) I.L.R.28 All. 508.(3)  L.R.6 I.A.88.       857 decision  is  well founded.  The  propositions	 in  question treated  an alienation made for the payment of the  father's antecedent debt on the same footing as an alienation made in execution  of a decree passed against him and in both	cases the  principle	 enunciated is that in order  to  succeed  in their challenge the sons must prove the immoral character of the  antecedent  debt	 and the  knowledge  of	 the alienee. Having regard to the broad language used in stating the  two propositions, we do not think that a valid distinction could be made between     a mortgage and a sale particularly after the decision	of  the	 Privy Council in the  case  of	 Brij Narain (1). That is the view taken by the Nagpur High	Court in  Udmiram  Koroodimal  and Anr.  v.	Balramdas  Tularam  & Ors.(2). In the result the appeal fails, but in the circumstances  of this case there will be no order as to costs.				       Appeal dismissed.