PETITIONER:C. A. ABRAHAM, UPPOOTTIL, KOTTAYAM	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE INCOME-TAX OFFICER, KOTTAYAM AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:29/11/1960BENCH:SHAH, J.C.BENCH:SHAH, J.C.KAPUR, J.L.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1961 AIR  609		  1961 SCR  (2) 765 CITATOR INFO : R	    1961 SC1265	 (8) RF	    1962 SC 970	 (3,4) R	    1964 SC 825	 (3,4) R	    1964 SC1095	 (4,11) D	    1966 SC1295	 (15) E	    1968 SC 162	 (10,11) F	    1968 SC 816	 (3) E	    1969 SC 835	 (5) R	    1969 SC1352	 (7) R	    1970 SC1173	 (26) E	    1970 SC1782	 (3) D	    1975 SC1549	 (21,23,54) F	    1977 SC 459	 (3)ACT:Income-tax--Suppression	 of  income  of	 Partnership  firm--Penalty,   if	can   be  imposed   after   dissolution	  ofPartnership--Income-tax	  Act,	1922  (11  of	1922),	 SS.28(I)(c), 44.HEADNOTE:The appellant who was carrying on business in food grains inpartnership with another person submitted the returns of theincome	of the firm for the accounting years even after	 hispartner's  death.  It was found that certain income  of	 thefirm  was  concealed  and the Income-tax  Officer  not	onlyassessed the firm to tax for the suppressed income but	alsoimposed	 penalties for concealing the said income.   Appealsto  the	 higher	 income	 tax  authorities  failed  and	 theappellant  then	 applied  to the High Court for	 a  writ  ofcertiorari quashing the orders of assessment and  impositionof  penalty  on	 the ground inter alia	that  the  firm	 wasdissolved  by  his partner's death and no penalty  could  beimposed	 after	dissolution  of the  firm,  The	 High  Courtrejected  the petition.	 On appeal with the  certificate  ofthe High Court,Held,  that by virtue of s. 44 and other provisions  of	 theIncome Tax Act a partner of a dissolved partnership firm maynot only be made liable to assessment for income tax for theaccounting years but despite dissolution of the firm he	 maybe  made liable to pay penalty for concealing the income  ofthe  firm  under  s. 28(1)(c) of the Act.   The	 analogy  ofdissolution  of	 a  Hindu joint Family	does  not  apply  todissolution of a partnership.Mareddi Krishna Reddy v. Income-tax Officer, Tenali,  [1957]31 I.T.R. 678, approved.Commissioner of Income-tax v. Ravalaseema Oil Mills,  [1959]37  I.T.R. 208 and S. V. Veerappan Chettiar v.	Commissionerof Income-tax, Madras, [1957] 32 I.T.R. 411, disapproved.Mahankali Subbarao v. Commissioner of Income-tax, [1957]  31I.T.R. 867, distinguished.The  Legislature intended that the provisions of Ch.  IV  ofthe  Act shall apply to a firm even after discontinuance  ofits  business.	In interpreting a fiscal statute  the  Courtcannot	proceed to make good deficiencies if there  be	any.In  case of doubt it should be interpreted in favour of	 thetax payer.The  expression "assessment" has different  connotations  anhas been used in its widest connotation in Ch.	IV and S. 4497766he Act.	 It is not restricted only to computation of tax butincludes  imposition of penalty on tax payers found  in	 theprocess of assessment guilty of concealing income.Commissioner  of Income-tax, Bombay Presidency and  Aden  v.Khemchand Ramdas, [1938] 6 I.T.R. 414, referred to.The  Income-tax	 Act  provided	a  complete  machinery	 forobtaining  relief  against  improper orders  passed  by	 theIncome-tax  Authorities	 and  the  appellant  could  not  bepermitted   to	abandon	 that  machinery,  and	invoke	 thejurisdiction  of  the  High  Court under  Art.	226  of	 theConstitution against the orders of the taxing authorities.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 517 of 1958.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated October 31,  1957,of the Kerala High Court in O. P. No. 215 of 1957.G. B. Pai and Sardar Bahadur, for the appellant.Hardyal Hardy and D. Gupta, for the respondents.1960.  November 29.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbySHAH,  J.-C.  A.  Abraham hereinafter  referred	 to  as	 theappellant  and one M. P. Thomas carried on business in	foodgrains in partnership in the name and style of M. P.  Thomas&  Company  at Kottayam.  M. P. Thomas died on	October	 11,1949.	For  the  account years 1123,  1124  and  1125	M.E.corresponding  to  August 1947-July 1948,  August  1948-July1949 and August 1949-July 1950, the appellant submitted as apartner returns of the income of the firm as an unregisteredfirm.	In the course of the assessment proceedings, it	 wasdiscovered  that  the firm had carried	on  transactions  indifferent commodities in fictitious names and had failed  todisclose substantial income earned therein.  By order  datedNovember  29,  1954,  the Income Tax  Officer  assessed	 thesuppressed  income of the firm in respect of the  assessmentyear  1124 M.E. under the Travancore Income Tax Act  and  inrespect	 of assessment years 1949-50 and 1950-51  under	 theIndian	Income Tax Act and on the same day   issued  noticesunder  s. 28 of the Indian Income Tax Act in respect of	 theyears 1949-50 and 1950-51 and767under  s. 41 of the Travancore Income Tax Act for  the	year1124  M.E.,  requiring the firm to show	 cause	why  penaltyshould	not be imposed.	 These notices were served upon	 theappellant.The Income Tax Officer after considering the explanation  ofthe appellant imposed penalty upon the firm, of Rs. 5,000 inrespect of the year 1124 M.-E., Rs. 2,O00 in respect of	 theyear 1950-51 and Rs. 22,000 in respect of the year  1951-52.Appeals against the orders passed by the Income Tax  Officerwere dismissed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.	 Theappellant  then applied to the High Court of  Judicature  ofKerala praying for a writ of certiorari quashing the  ordersof assessment and imposition of penalty.  It was claimed  bythe  appellant inter alia that after the dissolution of	 thefirm by the death of M. P. Thomas in October, 1949, no orderimposing  a penalty could be passed against the	 firm.	 TheHigh  Court rejected the application following the  judgmentof the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Mareddi Krishna Reddy v.Income	 Tax  Officer,	Tenali	(1).   Against	 the   orderdismissing  the	 petition,  this appeal	 is  preferred	withcertificate of the High Court.In  our view the petition filed by the appellant should	 nothave  been  entertained.   The Income  Tax  Act	 provides  acomplete  machinery for assessment of tax and imposition  ofpenalty and for obtaining relief in respect of any  improperorders	passed	'by  the Income	 Tax  authorities,  and	 theappellant  could not be permitted to abandon resort to	thatmachinery  and to invoke the jurisdiction of the High  Courtunder  Art.  226 of the Constitution when  he  had  adequateremedy	open to him by an appeal to the Tribunal.   But	 theHigh  Court did entertain the petition and has also  grantedleave  to  the	appellant  to appeal  to  this	court.	 Thepetition  having  been	entertained and	 leave	having	beengranted,  we do not think that we will be justified at	thisstage  in dismissing the appeal in limine.  On	the  merits,the  appellant	is not entitled to relief.  The	 Income	 TaxOfficer	 found that the appellant had, with a view to  evadepayment of tax,(1) (1957) 31 I.T.R. 678.768deliberately  concealed material particulars of his  income.Even  though the firm was carrying on transactions  in	foodgrains	in  diverse names, no entries in  respect  of  thosetransactions  in the books of account were posted and  falsecredit	entries of loans alleged to have been borrowed	fromseveral persons were made.  The conditions prescribed by  s.28(1)(c) for imposing penalty were therefore fulfilled.	 Butsays the appellant, the assessee firm had ceased to exist onthe death of M. P. Thomas, and in the absence of a provisionin  the	 Indian	 Income Tax Act	 whereby  liability  to	 paypenalty	 may be imposed after dissolution against  the	firmunder  s.  28(1)(c)  of	 the Act,  the	order  was  illegal.Section 44 of the Act at the material time stood as follows:"Where	any business,...carried on by a firm...... has	beendiscontinued  ... every person who was at the time  of	suchdiscontinuance	...  a	partner of such	 firm,...  shall  inrespect	 of  the  income, profits and gain of  the  firm  bejointly and severally liable to assessment under Chapter  IVfor  the  amount of tax payable and all	 the  provisions  ofChapter	 IV  shall,  so far as may be,	apply  to  any	suchassessment."That  the business of the firm was discontinued	 because  ofthe  dissolution of the partnership is not disputed.  It  isurged  however that a proceeding for imposition	 of  penaltyand  a proceeding for assessment of income-tax	are  mattersdistinct, and s. 44 may be resorted to for assessing tax dueand   payable	by  a  firm  business	whereof	  has	beendiscontinued,  but an order imposing penalty under s. 28  ofthe  Act  cannot by virtue of s. 44 be passed.	 Section  44sets  up machinery for assessing the tax liability of  firmswhich  have  discontinued their business  and  provides	 forthree  consequences, (1) that on the discontinuance  of	 thebusiness of a firm, every person who was at the time of	 itsdiscontinuance	a  partner is liable in respect	 of  income,profits	 and  gains of the firm to be assessed	jointly	 andseverally,  (2) each partner is liable to pay the amount  oftax  payable  by the firm, and (3) that	 the  provisions  ofChapter,  so far as may be, apply to such  assessment.	 Theliability declared by s. 44 is769undoubtedly   to  assessment  under  Chapter  IV,  but	 theexpression  "assessment" used therein does not	merely	meancomputation  of income.	 The expression "assessment" as	 hasoften been said is used in the Income Tax Act with differentconnotations.	 In  Commissioner  of  Income  Tax,   BombayPresidency  &  Aden v. Khemchand Ramdas	 (1),  the  JudicialCommittee of the Privy Council observed:"One  of the peculiarities of most Income-tax Acts  is	thatthe  word  "assessment"	 is used as  meaning  sometimes	 thecomputation  of income, sometimes the determination  of	 theamount of tax payable and sometimes the whole procedure laiddown  in the Act for imposing liability upon the  tax-payer.The   Indian  Income-tax  Act  is  no  exception   in	thisrespect............".A  review  of  the  provisions of  Chapter  IV	of  the	 Actsufficiently  discloses that the word "assessment" has	beenused  in its widest connotation in that chapter.  The  titleof the chapter is "Deductions and Assessment".	The  sectionwhich deals with assessment merely as computation of  incomeis s. 23; but several sections deal not with computation  ofincome,	 but  determination  of	 liability,  machinery	 forimposing  liability  and  the  procedure  in  that   behalf.Section 18A deals with advance payment of tax and impositionof penalties for failure to carry out the provisions  there-in.  Section  23A  deals with  power  to  assess  individualmembers	 of certain companies on the income deemed  to	havebeen  distributed as dividend, s. 23B deals with  assessmentin case of departure from taxable territories, s. 24B  dealswith  collection  of  tax  out of  the	estate	of  deceasedpersons; s. 25 deals with assessment in case of discontinuedbusiness,  s. 25A with assessment after partition  of  HinduUndivided  families and ss. 29, 31, 33 and 35 deal with	 theissue  of demand notices and the filing of appeals  and	 forreviewing  assessment  and s. 34 deals	with  assessment  ofincomes	 which	have  escaped  assessment.   The  expression"assessment"  used in these sections is not used  merely  inthe  sense  of	computation of income and there	 is  in	 ourjudgment no ground for holding(1) [1938] 6 I.T.R. 414.770that  when  by s. 44, it is declared that  the	partners  ormembers	 of the association shall be jointly  and  severallyliable	to  assessment, it is only intended to	declare	 theliability  to computation of income under s. 23 and  not  tothe  application  of  the  procedure  for  declaration	 andimposition   of	  tax  liability  and  the   machinery	 forenforcement  thereof.	Nor  has the  expression,  "all	 theprovisions  of	Chapter IV shall so far as may be  apply  tosuch assessment" a restricted content: in terms it says thatall  the provisions of Chapter IV shall apply so far as	 maybe  to	assessment of firms which  have	 discontinued  theirbusiness.   By	s. 28, the liability to pay  additional	 taxwhich  is  designated  penalty is imposed  in  view  of	 thedishonest contumacious conduct of the assessee.	 It is	truethat this liability arises only if the Income-tax Officer issatisfied  about the existence of the conditions which	givehim  jurisdiction and the quantum thereof depends  upon	 thecircumstances  of the case.  The penalty is not uniform	 andits  imposition depends upon the exercise of  discretion  bythe  Taxing authorities; but it is imposed as a part of	 themachinery  for assessment of tax liability.  The use of	 theexpression  "so far as may be" in the last clause of  s.  44also does not restrict the application of the provisions  ofChapter	 IV only to those which provide for  computation  ofincome.	 By the use of the expression "so far as may be"  itis  merely intended to enact that the provisions in Ch.	  IVwhich  from their nature have no application to	 firms	willnot  apply  thereto  by virtue of s.  44.   In	effect,	 theLegislature  has  enacted  by  s.  44  that  the  assessmentproceedings may be commenced and continued against a firm ofwhich business is discontinued as if discontinuance has	 nottaken place.  It is enacted manifestly with a view to ensurecontinuity in the application of the machinery provided	 forassessment  and imposition of tax liability  notwithstandingdiscontinuance of the business of firms.  By a fiction,	 thefirm  is  deemed to continue after  discontinuance  for	 thepurpose of assesment under Chapter IV.The Legislature has expressly enacted that the provisions ofChapter IV shall apply to the assessment of771a business carried on by a firm even after discontinuance ofits  business,	and if the process  of	assessment  includestaking	steps  for  imposing penalties, the  plea  that	 theLegislature  has  inadvertently	 left a lacuna	in  the	 Actstands	refuted.   It is implicit in the contention  of	 theappellant  that it is open to the partners of a firm  guiltyof  conduct  exposing them to penalty under s. 28  to  evadepenalty	 by the simple expedient of discontinuing the  firm.This plea may be accepted only if the court is compelled, inview  of  unambiguous language, to hold that  such  was	 theintention  of the Legislature.	Here the language used	doesnot even tend to such an interpretation.  In interpreting  afiscal	statute,  the  court cannot  proceed  to  make	gooddeficiencies  if there be any: the court must interpret	 thestatute	 as  it	 stands and in case of	doubt  in  a  mannerfavourable  to the tax-payer.  But where as in	the  presentcase,  by the use of words capable of comprehensive  import,provision  is made for imposing liability for  penalty	upontax-payers guilty of fraud, gross negligence or contumaciousconduct,  an  assumption  that	the words  were	 used  in  arestricted  sense so as to defeat the avowed object  of	 theLegislature qua a certain class will not be lightly made.Counsel for the appellant relying upon Mahankali Subbarao v.Commissioner of Income Tax (1), in which it was held that anorder  imposing	 penalty  under s. 28(1)(c)  of	 the  IndianIncome	Tax  Act  upon a Hindu Joint  Family  after  it	 haddisrupted,  and the disruption was accepted under s.  25A(1)is invalid, because there is a lacuna in the Act,  submittedthat  a	 similar  lacuna exists in the Act  in	relation  todissolved firms.  But whether on the dissolution of a  HinduJoint Family the liability for penalty under s. 28 which maybe  incurred during the subsistence of the family cannot  beimposed	 does not fall for decision in this case: it may  besufficient  to observe that the provisions of s. 25A and  s.44  are	 not in pari materia.  In the absence  of  any	suchphraseology  in s. 25A as is used in s. 44, no real  analogybetween	 the  content  of  that section and  s.	 44  may  beassumed.  Undoubtedly,(1) [1957] 31 I.T.R. 867.772by s. 44, the joint and several liability which is  declaredis liability to assessment in respect of income, profits  orgains of a firm which has discontinued its business, but  ifin  the process of assessment of income, profits  or  gains,any other liability such as payment of penalty or  liabilityto pay penal interest as is provided under s. 25, sub-s. (2)or  under  s.  18A sub-ss. (4), (6), (7),  (8)	and  (9)  isincurred,  it  may also be imposed, discontinuation  of	 thebusiness notwithstanding.In our view, Chief Justice Subba Rao has correctly stated inMareddi Krishna Reddy's case (supra) that:"Section  28  is  one of the sections  in  Chapter  IV.	  Itimposes	 a  penalty  for the concealment of  income  or	 theimproper  distribution	of profits.  The  defaults  made  infurnishing a return of the total income, in complying with anotice under sub-s. (4) of s. 22 or sub-s. (2) of s. 23	 andin  concealing	the particulars of  income  or	deliberatelyfurnishing   inadequate	 particulars  of  such	income	 arepenalised  under  that	section.   The	defaults  enumeratedtherein	 relate to the process of assessment.	Section	 28,therefore,  is	a  provision enacted  for  facilitating	 theproper assessment of taxable income and can properly be saidto apply to an assessment made under Chapter IV.  We  cannotsay that there is a lacuna in s. 44 such as that found in s.25A of the Act.We are unable to agree with the view expressed by the AndhraPradesh	 High  Court  in the later Full	 Bench	decision  inCommissioner  of  Income Tax v. Rayalaseema Oil	 Mills	(1),which purported to overrule the judgment in Mareddi  KrishnaReddy's case (supra).  We are also unable to agree with	 theview  expressed by the Madras High Court in S. V.  VeerappanChettiar v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Madras (2).In  the view taken by us, the appeal fails and is  dismissedwith costs.(1) [1959] 37 I.T.R. 208.				    Appeal dismissed.(2) [1957] 32 I.T.R. 411.773