PETITIONER:COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, BIHAR &ORISSA	Vs.RESPONDENT:M/S.  PATNEY & CO.DATE OF JUDGMENT:05/05/1959BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1070		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 868 CITATOR INFO : R	    1960 SC 266	 (14) RF	    1966 SC1466	 (10) R	    1976 SC1172	 (9)ACT:Income-tax  -  Assessment  on  non-resident-Agreement	withresident debtor for payment outside British India-Remittanceby  cheques Posted in British India--Place  of	payment-Non-resident's liability to tax.HEADNOTE:The respondents, who were non-residents carrying on businessat  Secunderabad  within  the territories of  the  Nizam  ofHyderabad, were acting as agents of two firms in Bombay	 andMadurai,  in British India, for the supply of certain  goodsto the Nizam's Government.  In respect of the Commission dueto  the respondents by the firms the agreement	between	 theparties	 was  that  the	 amounts were  to  be  paid  to	 therespondents  in	 cash or by cheques  at	 Secunderabad.	 Forthese  amounts cheques drawn by the firms on the Bombay	 andMadras	branches,  respectively,  of the  Imperial  Bank  ofIndia,	were  sent  by post at Bombay  and  Madurai  to	 therespondents  at Secunderabad, and when received,  they	werecredited  in their books of account, the cheques being	sentto their banker there for collecting and crediting to  theiraccount.   For the assessment year 1945-1946 the  Income-taxOfficer,  Berhampur (in British India), assessed these	sumsas  taxable income holding that the amount was	received  inBritish869India and not at Secunderabad.	The Appellate Tribunal foundthat  all  the	cheques	 received  at  Secunderabad  by	 therespondents   were   treated  by  them	as   payment.	 Therespondents  claimed that in view of the  agreement  betweenthe parties that the amount of commission should be paid  atSecunderabad,  when the cheques were sent by post, the	postoffice	was  the  agent	 of  the  debtor  and  not  of	 therespondents, that the amount must be treated as having	beenreceived  when the post office delivered the cheques to	 therespondents,  and that, consequently, the amount  cannot  betreated	 as  having  been received in  British	India.	 TheIncome-tax   authorities   relied   on	 the   decision	  inCommissioner of Income-tax v. Ogale Glass Works Ltd., [1955]I S.C.R. 185.Held,  that in the case of payment by cheques sent  by	postthe determination of the place of payment would depend	uponthe  agreement between the parties or the course of  conductof the parties.	 If it is shown that the creditor authorisedthe debtor either expressly or impliedly to send a cheque bypost  the property in the cheque passes to the	creditor  assoon  as it is posted.	But where, as in the  present  case,the  agreement	was  that  the amount  was  to	be  paid  atSecunderabad,  outside British India, when the cheques	werereceived by the respondents there the amount must be  deemedto  have  been received at that place, and,  therefore,	 theamount was not liable to be taxed in British India.Commissioner of Tncome-tax v. Ogale Glass Works Ltd., [1955]1 S.C.R. 185, distinguished.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE` JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 326 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedFebruary 16, 1955, of the Orissa High Court in N. J. C.	 No.117 of 1951.C.   K.	  Daphtary,  Solicitor-General	of  India,   K.	  N.Rajagopal  Sastri,  R.	H.  Dhebar and	D.  Gupta,  for	 theappellants.Rameshwar  Nath, S. N. Andley and J. B. Dadachanji, for	 therespondent.1959.  May 5. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byKAPUR,	J.-This appeal pursuant to special leave is  broughtby  the Commissioner of lncome-tax against the	judgment  ofthe  High Court of Orissa holding that the amounts  receivedby  the assessees-respondents were not received in what	 wasBritish India and870therefore not liable to income-tax.  The respondents at	 allmaterial  times were non-residents carrying on	business  atSecunderabad which was then in the territories of the  Nizamof  Hyderabad.	They acted as agents for the supply  of	 gasplants	manufactured  by  Messrs. T. V. S. Iyengar  &  Sons,Madura, to the Nizam's Government, and also as agents of theLucas  Indian  Services, Bombay branch, for  the  supply  ofcertain goods to that Government.  The year of assessment is1945-46.   There  does not appear to have been	any  writtenagreement between the two manufacturers and the	 respondentsbut the goods were to be supplied on a commission basis.  Inpursuance  of this agreement the respondents  received	fromM/s.   T.V.S. lyengar & Sons, Madura, cheques drawn  on	 theImperial  Bank of India, Madras, amounting to Rs. 35,202  inrespect	 of  all goods supplied from -Madura and  also	fromLucas Indian Services, Bombay, by cheques drawn on  ImperialBank  of  India, Bombay branch, amounting to  Rs.  5,302  inrespect	 of goods supplied by them, thus making a  total  ofRs.  40,504.   These  cheques were sent	 by  post  and	whenreceived by the respondents at Secunderabad were credited inthe  account  books  of the respondents and  sent  to  theirbanker	G. Raghunathmal for collecting and crediting to	 theaccount	 of  the  respondents.	As  against  these  sums  sodeposited  the	respondents at once drew  cheques  and	thusoperated  on  these  amounts deposited.	 In  regard  to	 thecommission  received from the Bombay firm it was  paid	intothe  account on December 22, 1944, but was given credit	 foronly  on January 2, 1945.  The Income-tax  Officer  assessedthese sums as taxable income holding that the entire  amountof  Rs.	 40,504	 was received in British India	and  not  atSecunderabad.  An appeal was taken by the respondents to theAppellate  Assistant  Commissioner  who	 upheld	 the   orderholding that income must be held to have accrued, arisen  orreceived   in  British	India.	 Against  this	 order	 therespondents  took  an  appeal to  the  Income-tax  AppellateTribunal  and it was held that the amounts were received  bythe  respondents from Madura and Bombay firms as  commissionbut871they   were  received  at  Secunderabad.   The	appeal	 wastherefore allowed.  The finding Of the Appellate Tribunal intheir own words was:-" The contention of the Appellants is that the cheques beingnegotiable instruments and the creditor having accepted themand passed through their books, II the receipt must be takento  be	receipts  in  Hyderabad.  We  agree  with  the	viewsubmitted  by  the  appellants.	  In  Bhashyam's  NegotiableInstruments  Act,  8th	Edition, Revised, page	556,  it  isstated that it will be open to a creditor to accept a chequein  absolute payment of money due to him, in which  case  itwill be equivalent to cash payment.  That being the positionit  cannot be said that the income was received	 in  BritishIndia ".At  the	 instance of the Commissioner a reference  under  s.66(1)  of the Act was made to the High Court of	 Orissa	 fortheir opinion on the following question :-" Whether in the circumstances of the case, the sums of	 Rs.35,202	and Rs. 5,302 received as commission from T.  V.  S.lyengar	 &  Sons  Ltd.,	 and  Lucas  Indian  Services  Ltd.,respectively  were  income  that  accrued,  arose  or	werereceived in British India ".The  High  Court  found	 that  the  statement  of  case	 wasimperfect and that the real question was different.  It said:-" The real question in all such cases is not merely  whetherthe cheques were drawn on a bank in British India, and	sentfor  collection to that bank.  The question is whether	whenthe  cheques were received by the assessee having his  placeof  business  outside British India, those cheques  were  infact  received	as  absolute and final payments	 by  way  ofunconditional  discharge  or whether they were	received  asmere  conditional  payments on realisation.  The  fact	thatcheques	 were drawn on a bank in British India or that	theywere  sent for collection through a Secunderabad  banker  ofthe assessee though relevant, are not conclusive ".It therefore remitted the case to the Appellate Tribunal forsubmission of supplementary statement of case.It appears that at that stage the controversy was872confined  to  the question whether the cheques	having	beensent  to  Secunderabad and having been realised	 in  BritishIndia would amount to a final discharge or an  unconditionalone.  The Tribunal in its supplementary statement found thatthe  course of conduct followed by the parties	showed	thatthe  cheques were received from the Bombay and Madura  firmsin full satisfaction of the commission ascertained from timeto time and due on such date.  It said:"  The facts that such entries were made in  the  assessee'sbooks, that the cheques were put into the bank	immediately,that the bank at once gave credit to the assessee for  thesesums after charging discount thereon and immediately allowedthe assessee to operate on those sums are significant ".Therefore  the finding of fact by the Tribunal although	 notspecific  was  that  the  receipt  of  the  cheque  by	 therespondents  operated as full discharge of the debt  due  onaccount of commission from these two firms.The  matter  was  decided  by the  High	 Court	against	 theappellant  and	in  the meanwhile this	Court  had  given  ajudgment in Commissioner of Income-tax v. Ogale Glass  WorksLtd  (1).  Even after considering the decision of that	casethe  High  Court was of the opinion that the income  of	 therespondents  was not received in British India and  answeredthe question against the Revenue.  The High Court refused togive  leave  to appeal to this Court and it was	 this  Courtwhich gave special leave to appeal.The  question is whether the amounts, of commission paid  bycheques,  drawn respectively on banks at Madras	 and  Bombayand  respectively posted from Madura and Bombay, can in	 thecircumstances of this case be held to have been received  inwhat  was British India or at Secunderabad ?  The  AppellateTribunal  found that all the cheques whether from Madura  orfrom  Bombay  were  sent by the two  respective	 firms	fromMadura	or  Bombay and were received by the  respondents  atSecunderabad  and  were treated as  payment.   The  questionstill remains as to the effect of the sending of the chequesfrom  Madura  or  Bombay by post.  If there  is	 an  expressrequest by the(1) [1955] 1 S. C. R. 185.873creditor  that the amount be paid by cheques to be  sent  bypost and they are so sent there is no doubt that the paymentwill be taken to be at the place where the cheque or chequesare  posted.   The  respondents argued	that  there  was  anagreement  between  the	 Madura and  Bombay  firms  and	 therespondents that the money would be paid whether in cash  orby  cheque 'at Secunderabad' and therefore when the  chequeswere  sent  by	post the post office was the  agent  of	 thedebtor	and not of the respondents.  There is in support  ofthe  respondents  an  affidavit	 which	was  filed  in	 theassessment proceedings and which was relied upon in the HighCourt.	 According to this affidavit it was verbally  agreedthat the commission would be paid at Secunderabad in cash orby  cheque  (as the case may be), the language used  in	 theaffidavit was:"  The above commission was verbally decided to be  paid  toMessrs.	  Patney & Co. Ltd., Secunderabad the Agent  Companyin  Hyderabad State at Secunderabad in cash or by cheque  asthe case might be ".In  the	 case  of  payment  by	cheques	 sent  by  post	 thedetermination of the place of payment would depend upon	 theagreement  between the parties or the course of	 conduct  ofthe  parties.  If it is shown that the	creditor  authorisedthe debtor either expressly or impliedly to send a cheque bypost  the property in the cheque passes to the	creditor  assoon as it is posted.  Therefore the post office is an agentof  the person to whom the cheque is posted if there  be  anexpress	  or   implied	authority  to  send   it   by	post(Commissioner of Income-tax v. Ogale Glass Works Ltd.  (1)).In that case there was an express request of the assessee toremit  the  amount  of the  bills  outstanding	against	 thedebtor,	 that is, Government of India by means	of  cheques.But  it	 was observed by this Court that  according  to	 thecourse	of  business  usage  in	 general  which	 has  to  beconsidered  as a part of the surrounding  circumstances	 theparties	 must have intended that the cheques should be	sentby  post which is the usual and normal mode of	transmissionand  therefore the posting of cheques in Delhi	amounted  topayment in(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 185.110874Delhi to the post office which was constituted the agent  ofthe assessee.  But it was argued for the respondents that inthe  absence of such a request the post office could not  beconstituted  as	 the agent of the creditor and relied  on  apassage in Ogale's case (1) at p.  204	  where	   it	 wasobserved:-" Of course if there be no such request, express or implied,then  the delivery of the letter or the cheque to  the	postoffice is delivery to the agent of the sender himself ".It  was	 further contended that in this case  there  was  anexpress	 agreement  that  the  payment was  to	be  made  atSecunderabad  and therefore the matter does not fall  withinthe  rule  in Ogale Glass Works case (1) and  the  followingprinciple laid down in judgment by Das, J. (as he then was),is inapplicable :-"  Applying the above principles to the facts found  by	 theTribunal the position appears to be this.  The engagement ofthe Government was to make payment by cheques.	The  chequeswere drawn in Delhi and received by the assessee in Aundh bypost.	According to the course of business usage to  which,as  part of the surrounding circumstances, attention has  tobe paid under the authorities cited above, the parties	musthave intended that the cheques should be sent by post  whichis  the	 usual and normal agency for  transmission  of	sucharticles  and according to the Tribunal's finding they	werein fact received by the assessee by post."In  our opinion this contention is  well-founded.   Whatevermay  be	 the position when there is an	express	 or  impliedrequest for the cheque for the amount being sent by post  orwhen  it can be inferred from the course of conduct  of	 theparties,  the appellant in this case expressly required	 theamount of the commission to be paid at Secunderabad and	 therule of Ogale Work's case (1) would be inapplicable.The High Court judgment in our view was correct and we wouldtherefore dismiss this appeal with costs.Appeal dismissed.(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 185.875