PETITIONER:DHARANGADHARA CHEMICAL WORKS LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:STATE OF SAURASHTRA.DATE OF JUDGMENT:23/11/1956BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMADAS, S.K.MENON, P. GOVINDACITATION: 1957 AIR  264		  1957 SCR  152ACT:Industrial   Dispute-Workman-Independent    contractor-Test-Distinction-Agarias,  if workmen-Finding by  the  IndustrialTribunal,  if a question of fact-Such finding, if  and	whencan be set aside--Industrial Disputes Act (XIV Of 1947),  S.2(s)-Constitution of India, Art. 226.HEADNOTE:The  appellants	 were  lessees holding	a  license  for	 themanufacture  of	 salt on the demised lands.   The  salt	 wasmanufactured  by a class of professional labourers known  asagarias from rain water that got mixed up with saline matterin the soil.  The work was seasonal in nature and  commencedin  October  after  the	 rains	and  continued	till   June.Thereafter  the	 agarias  left for their  own  villages	 forcultivation work.  The demised lands were divided into plotscalled Pattas and allotted to the a-arias with a sum of	 Rs.400/-	for  each  Patta  to  meet  the	 initial   expenses.Generally  the same patta was allotted to the  same  aigariaevery  year  and if a patta was extensive in  area,  it	 wasallotted  to two agarias working in partnership.  After	 themanufacture  of salt the agayias were paid at the rate Of  5as.  6	pies  per  maund.  At the end  of  each	 season	 theaccounts  were settled and the agarias paid the balance	 dueto them. The agarias who worked themselves with the  membersof their families were free to engage extra labour on  theirown account and the appellants had no concern therewith.  Nohours  of work were prescribed, no muster rolls	 maintained,nor were working hours controlled by the appellants.   Therewere  no rules as regards leave or holidays and the  agariaswere free to go out of the factory after making arrangementsfor the manufacture of salt.  The question for decision	 waswhether	 in such circumstances the agarias could be held  tobe workmen as defined by S. 2(s) Of the Industrial  DisputesAct of 1947, as found by the Industrial Tribunal and  agreedwith by the High Court or they were independent	 contractorsand  the reference for adjudication made by  the  Governmentcompetent under s. 10 of the Act.Held,  that the finding of the Industrial Tribunal that	 theagarias	 were workmen within the meaning of S. 2(S)  of	 theIndustrial  Disputes  Act  of  1947  was  correct  and	 thereference was competent.The real test whether a person was a workman was whether  hehad  been  employed by the employer and	 a  relationship  ofemployer  and  employee	 or  master  and  servant  subsistedbetween	 them and it was well settled that the	prima  facietest of such153relationship was the existence of the right in the  employernot  merely to direct what work was to be done but  also  tocontrol the manner in which it was to be done, the nature orextent	of such control varying in different industries	 andbeing  by its nature incapable of being	 precisely  defined.The  correct approach, therefore, was to  consider  whether,having	regard	to  the nature of the work,  there  was	 duecontrol and supervision of the employer.Mersey Docks and Harbour Board v. Coggins & Griffith (Liver-Pool)  Ltd.,  and Another [1947] 1 A.C. 1,  and	 Simmons  v.Heath Laundry Company [1921] 1 K.B. 543, referred to.The  question whether the relation between the	parties	 wasone  as	 between  an employer and  employee  or	 master	 andservant was a pure question of fact and where the IndustrialTribunal having jurisdiction to decide that question came toa finding, such finding of fact was not open to question  ina  proceeding under Art. 226 of the Constitution  unless  itcould be shown to be wholly unwarranted by the evidence.Ebrahim	 Aboobakar v. Custodian General of Evacuee  Property[1952] S.C.R. 696, referred to.Performing  Right, Society Ltd. etc. v. Mitchell and  Booker(Plaise De Danse) [1924] i K.B. 762, not followed.A  person could be a workman even though he  did  piece-workand was paid not per day but by the job or employed his	 ownlabour and paid for it.Sadler	v. Henlock (1855) 119 E.R. 209 and Blake  v.  Thirst(1863) 32 L.J. (Exchequer) 188, referred to.The  broad distinction between a workman and an	 independentcontractor  was	 that  while the former would  be  bound  byagreement  to work personally and would so work	 the  latterwas  to	 get the work done by others.  A workman  would	 notcease  to  be so even though lie got other persons  to	workwith him and paid and controlled them.Grainger  v. Aynsley : Bromley v. Tams (1881) 6 Q.B.D.	182,Weaver	v.  Floyd (1825) 21 L.H., Q.B. 151  and	 Whitely  v.Armitage (1864) 16 W.R. 144, referred to.As  in the instant case the agayias, who  were	professionallabourers  and personally worked with the members  of  theirfamilies in manufacturing the salt, were workmen within	 themeaning	 of the Act, the fact that they were free to  engageothers	to assist them and paid for them, could	 not  affecttheir status as workmen.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: CiVil Appeal No. 85 of 1956.20154Appeal from the judgment and order dated January 8, 1954, ofthe  High  Court of Saurashtra, at Rajkot,  in	Civil  Misc.Application No. 70 of 1952.R. J. Kolah and A. C. Dave, for the appellant.Porus A. Mehta and R. H. Dhebar, for respondent No. 1.1956.	November  23.	The  Judgment  of  the	Court	was,delivered byBHAGWATI  J.-This  appeal  with	 a  certificate	 of  fitnessgranted	  by  the  High	 Court	of  Saurashtra	 raises	  aninteresting question whether the agarias working in the SaltWorks  at Kuda in the Rann of Cutch are workmen	 within	 themeaning	 of the term as defined in the	Industrial  DisputesAct, 1947, hereinafter referred to as the Act.The  facts  as found by the Industrial Tribunal are  not  indispute	 and are as follows.  The appellants are lessees  ofthe Salt Works from the erstwhile State of Dharangadhara andalso hold a licence for the manufacture of salt on the land.The appellants require salt -for the manufacture of  certainchemicals  and	part of the salt manufactured  at  the	SaltWorks  is  utilised by the appellants in  the  manufacturingprocess	 in  the  Chemical Works at  Dharangadhara  and	 theremaining salt is sold to outsiders.  The appellants  employa Salt Superintendent who is in charge of the Salt Works andgenerally  supervises the Works and the manufacture of	saltcarried on there.  The appellants maintain a a railway	lineand  sidings  and  also have  arrangements  for	 storage  ofdrinking water.	 They also maintain a grocery shop near	 theSalt Works where the agarias can purchase their requirementson credit.The  salt is manufactured not from sea water but  from	rainwater  which  soaking down the surface	becomes	 impregnatedwith   saline  matter.	 The  operations  are  seasonal	  incharacter  and commence sometime in October at the close  ofthe  monsoon.	Then the entire area is	 parceled  out	intoplots  called  pattas  and they are in	four  parallel	rowsintersected by the railway155lines.	 Each agaria is allotted a patta and in general	 thesame  patta is allotted to the same agaria year after  year.If the patta is extensive it is allotted to two agarias	 whowork  the  same	 in  partnership.   At	the  time  of	suchallotment, the appellants pay a sum of Rs. 400/- for each ofthe  pattas and that is to meet the initial expenses.	Thenthe  agarias commence their work.  They level the lands	 andenclose	 and  sink wells in them.  Then the density  of	 thewater in the wells is examined by the Salt Superintendent ofthe appellants and then the brine is brought to the  surfaceand  collected in the reservoirs called condensers  and	 re-tained	therein	 until	it acquires  by	 natural  process  acertain	 amount	 of  density.  Then it is  flowed  into	 thepattas	and  kept  there until	it  gets  transformed  'intocrystals.   The pans have got to be prepared by the  agariasaccording  to certain standards and they are tested  by	 theSalt  Superintendent.  When salt crystals begin to  form  inthe  pans they are again tested by the	Salt  Superintendentand  only when they are of a particular quality the work  ofcollecting  salt  is  allowed to be  commenced.	  After	 thecrystals  are  collected, they are loaded into	the  railwaywagons	and transported to the depots where salt is  stored.The  salt is again tested there and if it is found to be  ofthe  right  quality, the agarias are paid therefore  at	 therate of Rs. 0-5-6 per maund.  Salt which is rejected belongsto  the appellants and the agarias cannot either remove	 thesalt  manufactured by them or sell it.	The account is	madeup  at	the end of the season when the advances	 which	havebeen paid to them from time to time as also the amounts	 duefrom the agarias to the grocery shop are taken into account.On a final settlement of the accounts, the amount due by theappellants to the agarias is ascertained and such balance ispaid  by the appellants to the agarias.	  The  manufacturingseason	comes to an end in June when the monsoon begins	 andthen  the  agarias  return to their  villages  and  take  upagricultural work.The  agarias  work  themselves with their  families  on	 thepattas	allotted  to them.  They are free  to  engage  extralabour but it is they who make the payments to156these  labourers and the appellants have nothing to do	withthe same.  The appellants do not prescribe any hours of workfor these agarias.  No muster roll is maintained by them nordo  they  control how many hours in a day and for  how	manydays in a month the agarias should work.  There are no rulesas  regards leave or holidays.	They are free to go  out  ofthe  works  as	they like provided  they  make	satisfactoryarrangements for the manufacture of salt.In  about 1950, disputes arose between the agarias  and	 theappellants  as	to the conditions under	 which	the  agariasshould	be engaged by the appellants in the  manufacture  ofsalt.	The  Government	 of Saurashtra,	 by  its  letter  ofReference dated November 5, 1951, referred the disputes	 foradjudication  to the Industrial Tribunal, Saurashtra  State,Rajkot.	  The  appellants contested the proceedings  on	 theground, inter alia, that the status of the agarias was	thatof  independent contractors and not of workmen and that	 theState  was  not	 competent  to	refer  their  disputes	 foradjudication under s. 10 of the Act.This  question was tried as a preliminary issue and  by	 itsorder  dated  August 30, 1952, the Tribunal  held  that	 theagarias were workmen within the meaning of the Act and	thatthe  reference was intra vires and adjourned the matter	 forhearing	 on the merits.	 Against this order  the  appellantspreferred an appeal being Appeal No. 302 of 1952, before theLabour	Appellate Tribunal of India, and having	 failed-  toobtain	stay  of further proceedings before  the  IndustrialTribunal  pending the appeal, they moved the High  Court  ofSaurashtra in M.P. No. 70 of 1952 under Arts. 226 and 227 ofthe  Constitution  for	an appropriate	writ  to  quash	 thereference dated November 5, 1951, on the ground that it	 waswithout	 jurisdiction.	 Pending the disposal of  this	writpetition,   the	  appellants  obtained	 stay	of   furtherproceedings  before the Industrial Tribunal and in  view  ofthe  same the Labour Appellate Tribunal passed an  order  onSeptember  27,	1953,  dismissing  the	appeal	leaving	 thequestion  raised therein to the decision of the High  Court.By their judgment dated January 8, 1954, the learned Judges157of the High Court agreed with the decision of the IndustrialTribunal  that the agarias were workmen within s.  2(.s)  ofthe  Act  and, accordingly, dismissed  the  application	 forwrit.	They,  however,	 granted a  certificate	 under	Art.133(1)	(c) of the Constitution and that is how	 the  appealcomes before us.The  sole point for determination in this appeal is  whetherthe  agarias working in the Salt Works of the appellants  atKuda  are workmen within the definition of that term  in  s.2(s) of the Act." Workman " has been thus defined in s. 2 (s) of the Act:-"(s)  -'Workman'  means any person  employed  (including  anapprentice)  in any industry to do any skilled or  unskilledmanual	or clerical work for hire or' reward  and  includes,for  the  purposes  of any proceedings	under  this  Act  inrelation  to  an industrial dispute,  a	 workman  dischargedduring	that  dispute,	but  does  not	include	 any  personemployed  in  the  naval, military or  air  service  of	 the(Government).  "The  essential condition of a person being a workman  withinthe  terms of this definition is that he should be  employedto  do the work in that industry, that there should  be,  inother  words, an employment of his by the employer and	thatthere  should be the relationship between the  employer	 andhim as between employer and employee or master and  servant.Unless a person is thus employed there can be no question ofhis  being  a workman within the definition of the  term  ascontained in the Act.The  principles	 according  to	which  the  relationship  asbetween employer and employee or master and servant has	 gotto  be	determined  are well settled.	The  test  which  isuniformly applied in order to determine the relationship  isthe existence of a right of control in respect of the mannerin  which  the work is to be done.  A  distinction  is	alsodrawn  between	a contract for services and  a	contract  ofservice	 and that distinction is put in this way: "  In	 theone case the master can order or require what is to be	donewhile  in  the other case he can not only order	 or  requirewhat is to be done158but  how  itself  it ,;hall be done." (Per  Hilbery,  J.  inCollins v. Hertfordshire County Council (1).)The  test is, however, not accepted as universally  correct.The following observations of Denning L.J., at pp. 110,	 IIIin  Stevenson,	Jordan and Harrison Ltd.  v.  Macdonald	 andEvans (2) are apposite in this context:"But  in  Cassidy  v. Ministry of Health  (3)  Lord  JusticeSomervell, pointed out that test is not universally correct.There are many contracts of service where the master  cannotcontrol the manner in which the work is to be done as in thecase  of a captain of a ship.  Lord Justice Somervell,	wenton to say: One perhaps cannot get much beyond this: 'Was thecontract  a contract of service within the meaning which  anordinary man would give under the words'?"  I respectfully agree.  As my Lord has said, it is  almostimpossible to give a precise definition of the	distinction.It is often easy to recognize a contract of service when yousee it, but difficult to say wherein the difference lies.  Aship's master, a chauffeur, and a reporter on the staff of anewspaper are all employed under a contract of service;	 buta ship's pilot, a taxi man, and a newspaper contributor	 areemployed  under a contract for services.  One feature  whichseems to run through the instances is that, under a contractof  service, a man is employed as part of the business,	 andhis  work  is  done as an integral  part  of  the  business;whereas., under a contract for services, his work,  althoughdone for the business, is not integrated into it but is onlyaccessory to it."We  may also refer to a pronouncement of the House of  Lordsin  Short  v.  J.  &  W.  Henderson,  Ltd.  (4)	 where	LordThankerton  recapitulated the four indicia of a contract  ofservice	 which	had been referred to in the  judgment  underappeal,	 viz.,	(a) the master's power of selection  of	 hisservant, (b) the payment of wages or(1)  [1947] K.B. 598, 615.(2)  [1952] T.L.R. 101, Ill.(3)  [1951] 1 T.L.R. 539, 543 s.c. [1951] 2 K.B. 343, 352-3.(4)(1946)62T.L.R. 427,429.159other  remuneration, (c) the master's right to	control	 themethod	of  doing the work, and (d) the	 master's  right  ofsuspension or dismissal, but observed: -"Modern	 industrial  conditions have so	 much  affected	 thefreedom	 of  the  master  in cases in  which  no  one  couldreasonably  suggest that the employee was thereby  convertedinto  an  independent  contractor  that,  if  and  when	  anappropriate  occasion arises, it will be incumbent  on	thisHouse  to  reconsider  and to restate  these  indicia.	 Forexample,  (a),	(b)  and  (d) and  probably  also  (c),	 areaffected  by  the  statutory  provisions  and  ,rules  whichrestrict the master',% choice to men supplied by the  labourbureaux,  or  directed	to  him	 under	the  Essential	Workprovisions,  and  his power of suspension or  dismissal.  issimilarly  affected.   These matters are  also	affected  bytrade  union rules which are atleast primarily made for	 theprotection of wage-earners."Even  in that case, the House of Lords considered the  rightof supervision and control retained by the employers as, theonly  method  if occasion arose of securing the	 proper	 andefficient   discharge	of   the   cargo   as	sufficientlydeterminative  of the relationship between the	parties	 andaffirmed  that " the principal requirement of a contract  ofservice	 is the right of master in some reasonable sense  tocontrol	 the  method of doing the work and  this  factor  ofsuperintendence	 and control has frequently been treated  ascritical and decisive of the legal quality of relationship.The position in law is thus summarised in Halsburv's Laws ofEngland, Hailsham edition, Vol. 22, page 112, para. 191:-" Whether or not, in any given case, the relation of  masterand servant, exists is a question of fact; but in all  casesthe relation imports the existence of power in the  employernot only to direct what work the servant is to do, but	alsothe manner in which the work is to be done.":and until the position is restated as contemplated in  Shortv.  J. & W. Henderson Ltd., (supra), we may take it  as	 theprima  facie test for determining the  relationship  betweenmaster and servant,160The  principle which emerges from these authorities is	thatthe   prima  facie  test  for  the  determination   of	 therelationship between master and servant is the existence  ofthe  right in the master to supervise and control  the	workdone by the servant not only in the matter of directing whatwork  the servant is to do but also the manner in  which  heshall do his work, or to borrow the words of Lord Uthwatt atpage  23  in  Mersey Docks and Harbour Board  v.  Coggins  &Griffith  (Liverpool)  Ltd., and Another (1), "	 The  propertest  is whether or not the hirer had authority	 to  controlthe manner of execution of the act in questionThe  nature  or	 extent of control  which  is  requisite  toestablish  the	relationship of employer and  employee	mustnecessarily  vary  from business to business and is  by	 itsvery  nature incapable of precise definition.  As  has	beennoted above, recent pronouncements of the Court of Appeal inEngland	 have  even  expressed	the  view  that	 it  is	 notnecessary for holding that a person is an employee, that theemployer should be proved to have exercised control over hiswork,  that  the test of control was not  one  of  universalapplication and that there were many contracts in which	 themaster	could not control the manner in which the  work	 wasdone  (Vide observations of Somervell, L.J., in	 Cassidy  v.Ministry of Health (supra), and Denning, L.J., in Stevenson,Jordan and Harrison Ltd. v. MacDonald and Evans (supra).)The  correct  method  of approach, therefore,  would  be  toconsider  whether  having regard to the nature of  the	workthere was due control and supervision by the employer or  touse  the  words of Fletcher Moulton, L.J., at  page  549  inSimmons v. Health Laundry Company (2):-"  In my' opinion it is impossible to lay down any  rule  oflaw distinguishing the one from the other.  It is a questionof fact to be decided by all the circumstances of the  case.The greater the amount of direct control exercised over	 theperson rendering the services by the person contracting	 forthem the stronger the(1) [1947] 1 A.C. 1. 23.   (2) [1910] 1 K.B- 543, 54 550.9161grounds	 for  holding it to be a contract  of  service,	 andsimilarly  the	greater the degree of independence  of	suchcontrol	 the  greater  the  probability	 that  the  servicesrendered are of the nature of professional services and thatthe contract is not one of service."The Industrial Tribunal on a consideration of thes facts  inthe  light of the principles enunciated above, came  to	 theconclusion that though certain features which are usually tobe found in a contract of service were absent, that was	 dueto  the	 nature of the industry and that on  the  whole	 thestatus	 of  the  agarias  was	that  of  workmen  and	 notindependent  contractors.   It was under  the  circumstancesstrenuously urged before ,us by the learned counsel for	 therespondents  that the question as regards  the	relationshipbetween	 the appellants and the agarias was a pure  questionof  fact, that the Industrial Tribunal had  jurisdiction  todecide	that question and had come to its own conclusion  inregard	 thereto,  that	 the  High  Court,  exercising	 itsjurisdiction  under Arts. 226 and 227 of  the  Constitution,was not competent to set aside the finding of fact  recordedby  the Industrial Tribunal and that we, here,	entertainingan  appeal from the decision of the High Court, should	alsonot interfere with that finding of fact.Reliance  was placed on the observations of Mahajan, J.,  ashe  then was, in Ebrahim Aboobakar v. Custodian	 General  ofEvacuee Property (1)"It is plain that such a writ cannot be granted to quash thedecision of an inferior court within its jurisdiction on theground that the decision is wrong.  Indeed, it must be shownbefore such a writ is issued that the authority which passedthe 'order acted without jurisdiction or in excess of it  orin violation of the principles of natural justice......	 Butonce  it is held that the court has jurisdiction  but  whileexercising  it made a mistake, the wronged. party  can	onlytake the course prescribed by law for setting matters  rightinasmuch  as a court has jurisdiction to decide	 rightly  aswell as wrongly.  "(1)  [1952] S.C.R. 696,702.21162There  is  considerable	 force in  this	 contention  of	 therespondents.  The question whether the relationship  betweenthe  parties  is  one as between employer  and	employee  orbetween	 master	 and  servant is a pure	 question  of  fact.Learned	 counsel for the appellants "relied upon  a  passagefrom  Batt's  "Law of Master and Servant", 4th	edition,  atpage 10:-"  The line between an independent contractor and a  servantis often a very fine one; it is a mixed question of fact andlaw,  and the judge has to find and select the	facts  whichgovern	the  true  relation between the parties	 as  to	 thecontrol	 of  the work, and then he or the jury	has  to	 saywhether the person employed is a servant or a contractor.  "This statement, however, rests upon a passing observation ofMc  Cardie, J. in Performing Right Society Ltd. v.  Mitchelland  Booker  (Palais  de Danse)(1) and is  contrary  to	 theoaten& of authorities which lays down that whether or not inany given case the relation of master and servant exists  ispurely	one  of fact. (Vide Halsbury's	"Laws  of  England",Hailsham edition, Vol. 22, page 112, para. 191; Per  Cozens-Hardy,	M.R. at page 547 and Per Fletcher Moulton,  L.J.  atpage 549 in Simmons v. Heath Laundry Company (supra).  It isequally well settled that the decision of the Tribunal on  aquestion  of fact which it has jurisdiction to determine  isnot liable to be questioned in proceedings under Art. 226 ofthe Constitution unless at the least it is shown to be fullyunsupported by evidence.Now  the  argument of Mr. Kolah for the appellants  is	thateven  if  all the facts found by the Tribunal  are  acceptedthey  only  lead  to the conclusion  that  the	agarias	 areindependent  contractors  and that the	finding,  therefore,that  they  are	 workmen is liable to be set  aside  on	 theground	that there is no evidence to support it.  We  shall,therefore,  proceed  to determine the  correctness  of	thiscontention.Apart from the facts narrated above in regard to which thereis   no	 dispute,  there  was  the  evidence  of  the	SaltSuperintendent	of the appellants which was recorded  beforethe Tribunal:-(1)  [1924] 1 K.B. 762.163"The  panholders are allotted work on the salt pans by	oralagreement.   The Company has no control over the  panholdersin  regard  to	the  hours of work or  days  of	 work.	 TheCompany's permission is nor sought in matter of sickness  orin matter of going out to some village.	 The Company has  nocontrol	 over the panholders as to how many  labourers	theyshould	engage	and what wages they should  pay	 them.	 Thecompany's  supervision	over the work of the  panholders  islimited	 to  the proper quality as per requirements  of	 theCompany and as per standard determined by the Government  inmatter	of salt. , The company's supervision is	 limited  tothis extent.The  Company  acts in accordance with Clause 6 of  the	saidagreement in order to get the proper quality of salt. Panholders  are  not the workmen of the  Company,  but	 arecontractors.   The men, who are entrusted with pattas,	workthemselves.  They can engage others to help them and so theydo.   There is upto this day no instance that any  penholderwho is entrusted with a patta, has not turned up to work  onit.  But we do not mind whether he himself works or not.If  any penholder after registering his name (for  a  patta)gets work done by others, we allow it to be done.We own 319 pattas.  Some patta8 have two partners.  In some,one  man  does	the  job.   ID	all  the  pans,	 mainly	 thepanholders   work  with	 the  help  of	their	(respective)families.  "Clause	6 of the agreement referred to in the course of	 hisevidence by the Salt Superintendent provided:-"   6.	We  bind  ourselves  to	 work  as  per	advice	 andinstructions of the officers appointed by them in connectionwith  the  drawing  of brine or with  the  process  of	saltproduction  in	the  pattas and if  there  is  any  default,negligence or slackness in executing it on our part or if wedo  not	 behave well in any way, the Managing Agent  of	 thesaid   Company	can  annul  this  agreement  and  can	takepossession  of the patta, brine, well etc., and as a  resultwe will not be entitled to claim any164sort of consideration or compensation for any half processedsalt  lying  in	 our patta; or in  respect  of	any  expenseincurred  or labour employed in preparing kiwa	patta,	wellbamboo lining etc.  "There  was also the evidence of Shiva Daya, an	agaria,	 whowas examined on behalf of the respondents:-"  There  is work of making enclosures and then	 of  sinkingwells.	 The company supervises this work.  While the  wellsare  being  sunk, the company measures the  density  of	 thebrine of wells.	 In order to bring the brine of wells to theproper	density,  it  is put in a  condenser  and  then	 theCompany tests this and then this brine is allowed to flow inthe pattas......The  bottom  of	 a patta is prepared after  it	is  properlycrushed under feet and after the company inspects and  okaysthat it is alright, water is allowed to flow into it.	Whensalt begins to form at the bottom of a patta, an officer  ofthe company comes and inspects it.  At the end of 21 months,the  water  becomes saturated, i.e., useless, and so  it  isdrained	 away  under the supervision of the  company.	Thenfresh  brine  is  allowed to flow into the  patta  from	 thecondenser.  This instruction is also given by the  company'sofficer."It  was	 on  a	consideration  of  this	 evidence  that	 theIndustrial   Tribunal  came  to	 the  conclusion  that	 thesupervision and control exercised by the appellants extendedto all stages of the manufacture from beginning to end.	  Weare  of	 opinion that far from there being  no	evidence  tosupport	 the conclusion reached by the	Industrial  Tribunalthere were materials on the record on the basis of which  itcould  come  to	 the conclusion that  the  agarias  are	 notindependent  contractors but workmen within the	 meaning  ofthe Act.Learned counsel for the appellants laid particular stress ontwo  features  in this case which, in his  submission,	wereconsistent  only  with	the position that  the	agarias	 areindependent contractors.  One is that they do piece-work andthe other that they employ their own labour and pay for	 it.In  our	 opinion  neither  of  these  two  circumstances  isdecisive of the question.  As165regards	 the first, the argument of the appellants  is	thatas,  the agaria8 are under no obligation to work  for  fixedhours or days and are to be paid wages not per day or  hoursbut  for the quantity of salt actually produced and  passed,at a certain rate,, the very basis on which the relationshipof  employer and employees rests is lacking, and  that	theycan only be regarded as independent contractors.  There	 is,however, abundant authority in England that a person can  bea workman even though he is paid not per day but by the job.The following observations of Crompton, J. in Sadlerv.   Henlock (1) are pertinent in this behalf :-" The test here is, whether the defendant retained the powerof  controlling the work.  No distinction can be drawn	fromthe circumstances of the man being employed at so much a dayor  by the job.	 I think that here the relation was that  ofmaster and servant, not of contractor and contractee."(See  also  Blake, v. Thirst (2) and Halsbury's	 "  Laws  ofEngland	 ", Hailsham edition, Vol. 22, page 119, para.	194,wherein it is stated that if a person is a worker and not  acontractor, " it makes no difference that his work is piece-work ".)As  regards the second feature relied on for the  appellantsit  is	contended that the agaria8 are	entitled  to  engageother persons to do the work, that these persons are engagedby  the	 agaria8 and are paid by them, that  the  appellantshave  no  control  over them and that  these  facts  can  bereconciled  only  with	the position that  the	agaria8	 areindependent  contractors.  This argument, however,  proceedson a misapprehension of the true legal position.  The  broaddistinction between a workman and an independent  contractorlies  in this that while the former agrees himself to  work,the  latter  agrees  to get other persons to  work.   Now  aperson	who agrees himself to work and does so work and	 is,therefore,  a  workman does not cease to be such  by  reasonmerely of the fact that he gets other persons to work along(1)  (1855) 4 El. & Bl. 570, 578 ; (1855) 119 E.R. 209, 212.(2)  (1863) 32 L.J. (Exchequer) 188.166with  him and that those persons are controlled and paid  byhim.   What determines whether a person is a workman  or  anindependent  contractor	 is whether he has  agreed  to	workpersonally or not.  If he has, then he is a workman and	 thefact  that he takes assistance from other persons would	 notaffect	his  status.   The position is	thus  summarised  inHalsbury's 'Laws of England', Vol. 14, pages 651-652:-"  The	workman	 must have consented to	 give  his  personalservices  and not merely to get the work done, but if he  isbound  under  his  contract to work personally,	 he  is	 notexcluded   from	 the  definition,  simply  because  he	 hasassistance from others, who work under him."(See also Grainger v. Aynsley : Bromley v. Tams (1);  Weaverv. Floyd (2) and Whitely v. Armitage (a).)In the instant case the agarias are professional  labourers.They  themselves personally work along with the	 members  oftheir  families	 in  the  production  of  salt	and   would,therefore,  be	workmen.   The fact that they  are  free  toengage	others to assist them and pay for them would  not,inview  of  the  above authorities,  affect  their  status  asworkmen.There are no doubt considerable difficulties that may  ariseif the agarias were held to be workmen within the meaning ofs.  2 (s) of the Act.  Rules regarding hours of	 work  etc.,applicable to other workmen may not be conveniently  appliedto  them and the nature as well as the manner and method  oftheir  work  would  be such as cannot be  regulated  by	 anydirections   given  by	the  Industrial	  Tribunal.    Thesedifficulties, however, are no deterrent against holding	 theagarias	 to be workmen within the meaning of the  definitionif  they fulfil its requirements.  The	Industrial  Tribunalwould  have to very well consider what relief, if  any,	 maypossibly  be  granted  to  them having	regard	to  all	 thecircumstances  of the case and may not be able	to  regulatethe  work to be done by the aqarias and the remuneration  tobe paid to them by the employer in(1)  (1881) 6 Q.B.D. 182.(2)  (1852) 21 L.J., Q.B. 151.(3)  (1864) 16 W.R. 144.167the manner it is used to do in the case of other  industrieshere the conditions of employment and the work to be done bythe   employees	  is  of  a  different	 character.    Theseconsiderations	would necessarily have to be borne  in	mindwhile  the  Industrial	Tribunal is  adjudicating  upon	 thedisputes  which have been referred to it  for  adjudication.They do not, however, militate against the conclusion  whichwe  have come to above that the decision of  the  IndustrialTribunal  to the effect that the agarias are workmen  withinthe definition of the term contained in s. 2 (s) of the	 Actwas justified on the materials on the record.We  accordingly	 see  no ground for  interfering  with	thatdecision and dismiss this appeal with costs.Appeal dismissed.