PETITIONER:MCGREGOR & BALFOUR LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,WEST BENGALDATE OF JUDGMENT:16/03/1959BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.KAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1959 AIR  771		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 355 CITATOR INFO : D	    1960 SC1016	 (16,18) R	    1961 SC1233	 (7,10) F	    1975 SC2016	 (13,21)ACT:       Income-tax-Company  carrying  on	 business  in  England	and       India-Refund of excess Profits tax paid in England-If can be       taxed in India-Indian Finance Act, 1946, s. 11(4).HEADNOTE:The  appellant carried on business in England and in  India.For  the previous years it paid excess profits tax  in	bothcountries  and it obtained deduction of the amounts so	paidfrom  its profits and gains for the purposes of	 the  IndianIncome-tax Act.	 In the assessment year 1947-48 it  obtaineda  repayment of RS. 2,31,009 out of the excess	profits	 taxpaid in England.  The Income-tax authorities acting under S.11(14),	 Indian	 Finance  Act  1946,  included	this  amountreceived in England in the taxable profits of the appellant.The appellant contended that the repayment not being  withinthe taxable territory it could not be taxed.Held,  that the amount received as repayment of	 the  excessprofits	 tax was rightly taxed.	 Under S. 11(14) the  amountof  repayment was deemed to be 'income' for purposes of	 theIndian Income-tax Act and that ' income ' was to be  treatedas  the	 income	 for  the previous  year  during  which	 therepayment  was	made.  Section 11(14)  created	a  liabilityirrespective of the considerations arising from the  generalprovisions  of the income-tax law.  The distinction  betweenincomes	 within	 and without taxable  territories  was	madeunnecessary by S. 11(14).Eglinton Silica Brick Co. Ltd. v. Maryian, (1924) 9 Tax Cas.92; A. & W. Nesbitt Ltd. v. Mitchell, (1926) " Tax Cas.	 217and Kirke's Trustees v. The Commissioners of lnland Revenue,(1926) 11 Tax Cas. 323, applied.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 265 of 1956.Appeal from the judgment and order dated August 26, 1954, ofthe  Calcutta High Court in Income-tax Reference No. 107  of1952.S.Mitra,  Dipak	 Choudhry  and	B.  N.	Ghosh,	for   theappellants.C.K.   Daphtary,  Solicitor-General  of	 India,	  K.   N.Rajagopala  Sastri,  R.	 H. Dhebar and	D.  Gupta,  for	 therespondent.3561959.  March 16.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byHIDAYATULLAH, J.-Messrs. Mcgregor & Balfour, Ltd.,  Calcutta(hereinafter  called the Company) is a Company	incorporatedin the United Kingdom.	Its head office is also there.	 It,however,  does	business  in India also.   In  some  of	 theprevious  years,  the  Company was required  to	 pay  excessprofits	 tax both in England and in India.  When it did	 so,it  obtained deduction of the amounts from its	profits	 andgains  for  purposes  of the Indian  lncome-tax	 Act,  unders.12(2) of the Indian Excess Profits Tax Act.In  the assessment year 1947-1948 which corresponded to	 theaccounting  year of the Company ending on October 31,  1946,'it  obtained a repayment of Rs. 2,31,009 out of the  excessprofits tax paid in England.  This was under s. 28(1) of 4 &5, Geo.	 VI, Ch. 30.  For purposes of the levy of the IndianIncome-tax, this sum was included in the taxable profits  ofthe Company by the Income-tax Officer.	He purported to	 actunder s. 11(14) of the Indian Finance Act, 1946 (hereinaftercalled	the  Act).  The income of the Company in  India	 washeld to be Rs. 6,34,937 (including the sum of Rs.  2,31,009)while  the in-' come outside the taxable territory was	heldto  be	Rs. 4,29,620.  Applying s. 4A(c)(b)  of	 the  IndianIncome-tax Act, the Income-tax Officer assessed the  Companyon its total world income.The  appeals  of  the Company -	 made  successively  to	 theAppellate Assistant Commissioner and the Incometax AppellateTribunal  were dismissed.  The Tribunal,  however,  referredthe following questions of law to the High Court at Calcuttaunder s. 66 of the Indian Income-tax Act:"(1)  Whether on the above facts and circumstances  of	thiscase  the Tribunal was right in holding that the sum of	 Rs.2,31,009  was income of the assessee during  the  assessmentyear under consideration and was liable to be assessed underthe Indian Income-tax Act ? and(2)If  so,  whether this amount could not  be  taken  intoconsideration for determining the residence of the357assessee under s. 4A(c)(b) of the Indian Income-tax Act ? "This reference was heard by Chakravarti, C. J., and  Lahiri,J.,  who by their judgment dated August 26,  1954,  answeredthe first question in the affirmative and the second in	 thenegative.  They, however, granted a certificate under s. 66Aof  the	 Indian Income-tax Act, read with Art.	135  of	 theConstitution  to appeal to this Court.	No appeal  has	beenfiled on behalf of the Department, and the second of the twoquestions must be taken to be finally settled in this case.The contentions of the Company in this appeal, thus, concernonly  the  first  question, and they are two:  It  was	saidfirstly that s. 11(14) of the Finance Act could not be	madeapplicable  to	the assessment year 1947-1948,	because	 theprovision was not incorporated in the Indian Income-tax	 Actor  repeated in the subsequent Finance Acts.  This  argumentwas  not seriously pressed before us, and beyond  mentioningit,  Mr. Mitra for the Company did not choose  to  elaborateit.   We think that Mr. Mitra has been quite correct in	 notpursuing  the  matter.	The section framed as  it  is,	doesapply  to subsequent assessment years just as it did to	 theassessment  for	 1946-1947,  and  prima facie,	it  was	 notnecessary  to follow one of the two courses detailed  above.Since the point was not pressed before us, we need not	giveour reasons here.It  was	 said  nextly that the High Court was  in  error  inconstruing s. 11(14) of the Finance Act as a provision whichcreated a liability proprio vigore, as if it was a  chargingsection.  It was contended that the repayment was not withinthe  taxable  territory, and in view of the  answer  to	 thesecond	question  as to the applicability  of  s.  4A(c)(b),there  could be no tax upon it. On behalf of the  Departmentit  was	 argued	 that the sub-section created  a  charge  byitself and the fiction therein created being sufficient	 andclear,	it  was not necessary to consider where	 the  incomearose.Section 11(14) of the Finance Act reads as follows:" Where under the provisions of sub-section (2) of358section 12 of the Excess Profits Tax Act, 1940 (XV of 1940),excess	profits	 tax payable under the law in force  in	 theUnited	Kingdom	 has  been deducted  in	 computing  for	 thepurposes of income-tax and supertax the profits and gains ofany business, the amount of any repayment under	 sub-section(1) of Section 28 of the Finance Act, 1941, (4 & 5, Geo.  6,c. 30), as amended by Section 37 of the Finance Act, 1942 (5&  6, Geo 6, c. 21), in respect of those profits,  shall  bedeemed	to be income for the purposes of the Indian  Income-tax  Act, 1922, and shall, for the purpose of assessment  toincome-tax  and	 super-tax,  be treated	 as  income  of	 theprevious  year	during which the repayment  is	made."	Thissection may be compared with R. 4(1) of the Rules which	 areapplicable  to cases 1 and 11 of sch.  D of  the  Income-taxAct, 1918 (8 & 9, Geo.	V, c. 40):" Where any person has paid excess profits duty, the  amountso  paid  shall be allowed as a deduction in  computing	 theprofits	 or gains of the year which included the end of	 theaccounting  period  in respect of which the  excess  profitsduty  has  been	 paid; but where  any  person  has  receivedrepayment  of  any amount previously paid by him by  way  ofexcess	profits duty, the amount repaid shall be treated  asprofit for the _year in which the repayment is received."The English rule above quoted deals first with the deductionof  the amount paid as excess profits duty from the  profitsor  gains  of  the  year  which	 includes  the	end  of	 theaccounting  period  in respect of which the  excess  profitsduty  has been paid a matter dealt with in s. 12(2) of,	 theIndian	 Excess	  Profits  Tax	Act,  and  next	  with	 theassessability  to tax of the amount repaid from	 the  excessprofits duty previously charged -a matter dealt with in sub-ss. (11) and (14) of s. 11 of the Finance Act.The  object and purpose of the legislation in each  case  isthe  same, and though the two provisions are  not  ipsissimaverbal they are substantially in the same words and also  inpari  materia.	The concluding words of the English  rule  "the amount repaid shall be treated as profits of the year inwhich  the  repayment  is received ", and  which  have	beeninterpreted by359English Courts may specially be compared with the concludingwords of sub-s. (14) of s. 11 of the Finance Act, which run:" any repayment...... shall, for the purposes of assessment-to income-tax and super-tax, be treated as the income of theprevious year during which the repayment is made."There can be no doubt that the intention underlying the	 twoprovisions  is the same, and the language  is  substantiallysimilar.Now, the English rule was interpreted by the English  Courtsto create a liability irrespective of considerations arisingfrom  the  general  provisions of the  income-tax  law.	  InEglinton Silica Brick Co., Ltd. v. Marrian (1), the assesseecompany	 which had gone into voluntary liquidation  in	1904was carried on by the liquidator till 1921 when the businesswas sold to another company which took it over on October 5,1921, and the business of the appellant company then ceased.The   income-tax   assessment  for  the	 year	192122	 wasapportioned  between the two companies and inasmuch  as	 theassessee company had suffered a loss, it was reduced to	 nilin  its	 case.	The assessee company  then  received  pound,7,224 and pound, 1,150 in 1952 after it had ceased to  carryon  business as repayments of excess profits duty, and	thisincome	was  assessed under R. 4(1)  above  mentioned.	 Thequestion was whether this was right.The case was considered by the Lords of the First  Division,and  they are their opinion against the assessee firm.	 TheLord  President (Clyde) with whom Lords Skerrington,  Cullenand  Sands  agreed (Lord Sands dubitans) explained  the	 twoparts of the rule as follows:"  The principle is obvious.  It is that if a  taxpayer	 hasmade profits assessable (directly, or indirectly through theoperation  of the three years' average) to income  tax,	 and-the  Revenue takes a share of those profits in the name  ofExcess	Profits	 Duty,	it is only  fair  that	the  profitsactually   assessed  to	 Income	 Tax  should   suffer	somecorresponding deduction..........."(1)(1924) 9 Tax Cas. 92, 98.360The  problem which arose in the case of repayment of  ExcessProfits	 Duty was different.  Nobody knew or could know	 howsoon,  or  how late, repayment might fall to  be  made;	 norwhether	 the business whose profits were assessed to  ExcessProfits	 Duty would be in the same hands when repayment	 (ifany) came to be made.  By that time the business might	haveceased	to be in existence.  Repayment might therefore	haveto be made to a person who was not carrying on the  originalbusiness.  The original trader might have given up business,died,  and  an executor might have come in his	place.	 Thesolution  provided for all these cases is that contained  inthe  second  part of the paragraph, according to  which	 theamount repaid to any person is to be I treated as profit forthe year in which the repayment is received.' It is  obviousthat  the  amount of the former trading	 profits  so  repaidcould  not actually be trading profits for such year.	Nonethe  less, the amount repaid is to be treated as if it	werethat  which-in	fact-it is not, and cannot be.	 The  amountrepaid consists of trading profits which reach the  taxpayerout  of their proper time.  However belated his fruition  ofthem, they have not lost their original character as tradingprofits.  In my opinion, this is what explains the  positionof paragraph (1) of Rule 4 as part of the Rules under  CasesI and 11 of Schedule D, which are concerned with the profitsof  trades and vocations.  That some artificial rule  shouldbe  formulated was in the circumstances inevitable, and	 thehighly artificial character of the rule adopted is shown  bythe words in which it is expressed-, the amount repaid shallbe treated as profit for the year in which the repayment  isreceived.  In  short,  the amount repaid  is  deemed  to  besomething  that	 it  is not, and could	not  in	 the  actualcircumstances	possibly  be.	Nor  is	 this  in  any	 wayunreasonable  or  contrary  to what might  be  expected,  ifregard be had to the subject-matter.  For, as has been seen,the  Excess  Profits Duty was itself a part of	the  tradingprofits	 computed by methods familiar under the	 Income	 TaxAct.   It was not merely a part of something  which  enteredinto the computation of profit; it was actual361computed  profit.  And, but for the disparity between the  'accounting  period' and the three years' average,  it  wouldhave been directly assessable to Income Tax."A  similar  view was taken in the Court of  Appeal  by	LordHanworth,  M. R., Scrutton, L. J., and Romer, J.  (Scrutton,L.  J., dubitans) in A. & W. Nesbitt Ltd. v.  Mitchell	(1).There  too, the assessee company after suffering  losses  inthe accounting period May 1 to November 25, 1920, went	intoliquidation  and  ceased to trade.  On April 22,  1924,	 therepayment  of Excess Profits Duty took place, and  this	 wasassessed  to income-tax.  The Master of the Rolls  describedthe amount received as repayment in these words:" But in respect of what is that payment made ?	 It is not alegacy,	 it is not a sum which has fallen from the  skies  ;it,  is a sum which is repaid because there was too large  asum paid by the Company to the Revenue Authorities over	 thewhole period during which Excess Profits Duty was paid,	 andthat sum means and is intended to represent a repayment of asum  which was paid by them in respect of the  duty  chargedupon  the excess profits of their trading.  It	comes  back,therefore, not having lost its character but being still therepayment of a sum-too much, it is true,-but a sum taken outof the profits which were made by the Company in the  courseof  its	 trading, profits which at the time they  were	madewere  subject  to Income Tax and subject to  Excess  ProfitsDuty,  and that is the character of the repayment  that	 hasbeen made."Dealing with the rule, the Master of the Rolls observed :"I  have pointed out, this is a case where the	Company	 hasreceived  payment  of an amount previously paid	 by  way  ofExcess Profits Duty and having that characteristic attachingto  it; and we are told by the Statute that when such a	 sumis  repaid it is to be treated as a profit for the  year  inwhich  the  repayment  is received.  It is said	 it  may  betreated as a(1)  (1926) 11 Tax Cas. 211. 217, 218.46362profit;	 but  it ought not to be treated  as  an  assessableprofit.	 The answer, to my mind, is that it is paid back notby  way of a sum which has no origin or ancestry ; it  is  asum  which represents a repayment of the amount	  previouslypaid by that company in the form of Excess profits duty upontheir trading.	If it is to have that character and is to betreated as such a profit, although it be a repayment of sumspaid in respect of profits, it is to be treated as a  profitfor the year in which the repayment is received.  The word 'treated'  indicates that it is to be deemed to be  somethingwhich in fact it is not, or whether it is so or not it is tobe  treated  as a profit, and therefore it is, to  my  mind,impossible  to	discuss	 the  question	of  whether  or	 notdifficulties  may arise or whether it may be  criticised  asfinancially  not  quite sound that it should be	 treated  inthis method in that particular year; but we are told by	 theStatute that it is to be treated as a profit for-the year inwhich the repayment is received."In a case similar on facts as the ones cited above  (Kirke'sTrustees  v. The Commissioners of Inland Revenue  (1)),	 theHouse  of  Lords Viscount Cave, L. C., Lord  Atkinson,	LordShaw of Dunfermline, Lord Sumner and Lord Carson) placed thesame  construction  upon the latter part of  R.	 4(1).	 Thefollowing  passage in the speech of Lord Sumner,  explainingthe extent of the fiction in the latter part of the Rule, isextremely instructive :"  The	express	 mandatory terms of the	 sentence  show,  incarefully chosen language, that he is to submit to somethingby reason of his having previously enjoyed this advantage inthe  shape of repayment of an amount previously paid by	 wayof  Excess Profits Duty.  Something which is not  a  profit,but  is	 only  a money repayment, something  which  may	 notresult	in a profit, because although trading goes on  thereis so great a loss on the year that this repayment does	 notmake  up the deficit, something which may not be  a  tradingprofit, because trading has ceased altogether,	neverthelessis to be treated as profit and as profit for the year.Treated' is a, fresh word free from legal technicality.(1)  (1926) 11 Tax Cas. 323, 332.363It is the widest word that could be chosen.  The Legislatureavoided saying 'shall be assessed as' or I shall be  broughtinto  the computation of profit and loss , and	simply	saysthat something which is not profit but mere payment shall betreated	 as  profit, which it c may or may not	be,  and  asprofit	for  the year.	I think, therefore,  that  the	wordtreated is an apt word to impose a charge ".See  also  in this connection Olive and Partington  Ltd.  v.Rose (1).These  cases  were  relied on by  Chakravarti,	C.  J.,	 andLahiri,	 J., in the judgment under appeal, and	the  learnedJudges pointed out that the addition of the words " for	 thepurposes of assessment to income-tax and super-tax "  ratherstrengthen the reasoning in its application to the words  ofthe Indian Statute.  We agree with this statement.  It is tobe  noticed that the sub-section creates two fictions. -  Bythe  first  fiction it makes the amount of any	repayment  'income'	 for the purposes of the Indian Income-tax Act,	 andgoes on to say that that ' income ' shall be ' treated ' forpurposes  of assessment to income-tax and super-tax, as	 theincome of the previous year.Mr. Mitra, for the Company contends that no doubt the amountmay  be treated as 'income ' for the purposes of the  IndianIncome-tax Act, but the Department is still under a duty  toprove  that the Company is liable to tax at all.   Accordingto  him,  this will have to be treated	as  income  receivedoutside	 the  taxable  territory,  because  if	the  fictioncontemplated  its  being  treated  as  'within	the  taxableterritory  ',  it would have said so specifically.   In	 ouropinion, this submission cannot be accepted.That  this  would  have	 been taxable  income  but  for	 theprovisions  of s. 12(2) of the Excess Profits Tax Act,	goeswithout	 saying.   The income character of  the	 receipt  isrestored  by  the  fiction, and it is to  be  brought  underassessment  without any further proof than this that it	 hasbeen  received	as repayment of the United Kingdom  tax,  inrespect of which a deduction was made in the earlier  years.The distinction between(1)  (1929) 14 Tax Cas. 701.364incomes	 within	 and  without taxable  territories  is	madeunnecessary  by	 demanding  that  this	amount	by  way	  ofrepayment  shall be brought to tax and ' treated' as  incomewithin the previous year.  The effect thus is that the	sub-section	 charges the said amount with a liability to tax  byits own force or to borrow the words of Lord Sumner, is	 aptto ' impose a charge'.In  our opinion, the amount received as repayment of  excessprofits	 tax must be deemed to be 'income' for the  purposesof  the Indian Income-tax Act and for assessment it must  betreated	 as  income  of the previous year.   The  answer  toquestion  No.  1 given by the Calcutta High Court  was	thuscorrect.The appeal fails, and is dismissed with costs.		     Appeal dismissed.