PETITIONER:FEROZ DIN AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF WEST BENGALDATE OF JUDGMENT:25/11/1959BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.DAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1960 AIR  363		  1960 SCR  (2) 319 CITATOR INFO : E	    1968 SC 247	 (9,11)ACT:Industrial   Dispute-Strike-Notice   of	   discharge-Whetheramounts to lock-out-Sanction to prosecute-Facts constitutingthe  offence  not  shown  on  the  face-Conviction  on	suchsanction if bad-Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of  1947),ss. 27, 24, 2(1).HEADNOTE:A company dismissed from its service four of the appellants,for  taking  part  and instigating others  to  join,  in  anillegal	 slowdown  strike  in the Hot Mill  Section  of	 itsworks,	which  were  a	public	utility	 service.   On	suchdismissal the slow-down strike however gained strength.	 Thecompany	 thereupon issued a notice dated April 8,  1953,  tothe  workers  of the Hot Mill that unless  they	 voluntarilyrecorded  their	 willingness  to operate the  plant  to	 itsnormal	capacity, before 2 p.m. of April 10, they  would  beconsidered  to be no longer employed by the company.   As  aresult	forty  workers recorded their willingness,  but	 therest  did  not make any response at all.  The  company	thenissued a second notice dated April 25, stating, inter  alia,that  the  Workers who did not record their  willingness  towork  the  plant  to its normal capacity  in  terms  of	 theprevious notice dated April 8, had been considered to be  nolonger in service and their formal discharge320from the company's service had been kept pending in order toassure	to  the	 fullest  that no one  who  wanted  to	worknormally was being discharged on circumstantial	 assumptionsand calling upon the workers to record their willingness  byApril 28, 1953, to operate the plant to its normal capacity,and  further intimating that failing this their names  wouldbe  removed  from the company's rolls  and  their  dischargewould become fully effective with all the implications of  adischarge.  After this notice the    entire body of  workersof the works except those engaged in the essential  serviceswent on strike Thereafter, the company with the sanction  ofthe  Government	 filed	a  complaint  under  S.	 27  of	 theIndustrial  Disputes Act against the appellants	 for  havinginstigated  and	 incited others to take part in	 an  illegalstrike.The  appellants were convicted.	 The  appellants  challengedthe  said conviction under S. 27 of the Act contending	thatthe  strike  was  not  illegal as the  strike  had  been  inconsequence  of an illegal lock-out declared by the  companyby  the	 said  notices	dated April 8  and  April  25.	 Theappellants further contended that the notices did not effecta  discharge, but declared a lock-out and that even  if	 thenotices did effect a discharge, then also there was a  lock-out,  for  a discharge is equally a lock-out.	Finally	 theappellants  challenged the propriety of, the sanction  unders.  34(1) of the Act to make the complaint as  the  sanctiondid  not on the face of it refer to the	 facts	constitutingthe offence.Held,  that  on a construction of the notices they  bad	 theeffect	of discharging the workmen, and did not amount to  adeclarationThe  removal  of the name of a worker from the Roll  of	 thecompany was a formality which the notices said had been keptpending and this did not prevent the discharge having  takeneffect.The words " refusal by an employer to continue to employ anynumber	of  persons  employed by him " in  S.  2(1)  do	 notinclude the discharge of an employee.Held,  further that sanction under s 34(1) of the Act  wouldbe  good  if  it was proved by evidence	 that  it  had	beengranted after all the necessary facts had been placed beforethe  sanctioning authority though the facts were not  statedon the face of the sanction itself.Presidency Jute Mills Co. Ltd. v. Presidency Jute Mills Co.Employees, Union, [1952] I.A.C. 62, approvedGokalchand  Dwarkadas  Morarka v. The King, (1948)  L.R.  75I.A. 30, discussed.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No.. 48  of1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJuly 4, 1956, of the Calcutta High Court,321in  Criminal  Revision No. 1005 of 1955 arising out  of	 thejudgment  and order dated July 21, 1955, of  the  AdditionalSessions Judge, Asansol, in Criminal Appeal No. 125 of 1955.H.   J. Umrigar and Sukumar Ghose, for the appellants.S.   M. Bose, Advocate-General for the State of West Bengal,A.  C.	Mitra,	D.  N. Mukherjee and P.	 K.  Bose,  for	 therespondent.B.   Sen,  P.  K.  Chakravarty	and B.	N.  Ghosh,  for	 theinterveners.1959.  November 25.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbySARKAR J.-There are five appellants before us.	Four of themwere  employees of a company called the Indian Iron &  SteelCo., Ltd. and the fifth an outsider.The appellants were convicted by a Magistrate of Asansol  inWest  Bengal,  of an offence under s. 27 of  the  IndustrialDisputes Act, 1947, hereinafter referred to as the Act,	 forhaving	instigated  and incited others to take	'art  in  anillegal	 strike.   Each appellant was  sentenced  to  simpleimprisonment for three months.	On appeal by the appellants,the learned Additional Sessions Judge of Asansol,  confirmedthe order of the learned Magistrate.  A petition to the HighCourt	at  Calcutta  against  the  order  of  the   learnedAdditional  Sessions Judge by way of revision  also  failed.The appellants have now appealed to this Court with  specialleave.	 The respondent to this appeal is the State of	WestBengal and the Company has been allowed to intervene.The Company owns a factory at Burnpur near Asansol in  whichthere  is  a Sheet Mill.  The factory was  declared  by	 theGovernment  to	be a public utility service.   There  was  aslow-down strike in the Hot Mill section of the Sheet  Mill.The  Company thereupon issued charge-sheets to some  of	 itsworkers,  including the four appellants in  its	 employment,for  taking  part in the slow-down  strike  and	 instigatingothers to join it as also for other misconduct and322after  an  enquiry,  dismissed these  four  appellants	fromservice.  On such dismissal the slow-down strike  gained  instrength.  Thereupon, on April 8, 1953, the  Company  issueda notice to the workers of the Hot Mill the relevant portionof which is set out below:"The  workers  of  the Hot Mills (Sheet	 Mills)	 are  herebynotified   that	  unless  they	voluntarily   record   theirwillingness to operate the plant to its normal capacity theywill be considered to be no longer employed by the  Company,after  which the Company will recruit -other labour  to	 manthe Plant.The  workers  must record their willingness  before  Friday,10th April, 2-0 p.m., otherwise action as stated above	willbe taken."As  a  result of this notice forty workers of the  Hot	Millrecorded  their	 willingness but the rest,  who	 were  aboutthree  hundred in number, did not make any response at	all.In fact, on April 11, 1953, the workers in the entire  SheetMill numbering about one thousand and three hundred, went ona sit-down strike which lasted till April 20, 1953.On April 25, 1953, the Company issued another notice to	 theworkers which is set out below:" In accordance with General Manager's Notice dated the	 8thApril,	1953,  you  have been considered  to  be  no  longeremployed by the Company after 2 p.m. on Friday, 10th  April,1953,  as  you did not record your willingness	before	thatdate  and time to operate the Plant to its normal  capacity.Your  formal discharge from Company's service bad been	keptpending	 in order to assure to the fullest that no  one	 whowanted	 to   work  normally,  was   being   discharged	  oncircumstantial assumptions.Now,  however, there are no further reasons to believe	thatevery one concerned has not all necessary information  aboutthe  facts  of	the case and every  opportunity	 to  form  acorrect and legitimate opinion on the utterly  irresponsibleattitude adopted by some of the workers.A  copy of the notice dated the 22nd April, 1953, issued  bythe Directorate of Labour, Government of			    323West  Bengal, which has already been widely  circulated,  isattached herewith, in English with translations in  Bengali,Hindi and Urdu.You  are, therefore, hereby given a final Notice that if  by11  a.m.  on  28th  April, 1953,  you  do  not	record	yourwillingness  to	 operath the Plant to its  normal  capacity,your  name will be removed from the Company's Roll and	yourdischarge   will  become  fully	 effective  with   all	 theimplications of a discharge on grounds of serious breach  ofdiscipline.' and your place will be filled by promotion fromamongst the existing men or by engaging new men."After this notice the workers of the entire factory,  exceptthose  engaged	in essential services, went on a  strike  onApril 27,1953, which lasted for twenty two hours.On  May 19, 1953, the Company filed a complaint under s.  27of  the Act with the sanction of the Government	 granted  onMay  2,	 1953.	 Out of this complaint	the  present  appealarises.	 The respondent's case is that the strikes of  April11, to April 20, 1953, and April 27, 1953, were illegal	 andthe appellants had instigated them.  The appellants have notin  this  Court challenged the finding of the  Courts  belowthat  the  strikes took place and that they  had  instigatedthem, but they contend that the strikes were not illegal.Section 27 of the Act provides that a person who  instigatesor  incites  others to take part in, or	 otherwise  acts  infurtherance  of	 a strike, which is illegal under  the	Act,commits	 an  offence.	The respondent's case  is  that	 thestrikes	 were  illegal	under  s. 24(1)	 of  the  Act  whichprovides that a strike or a lock-out shall be illegal if  itis  commenced or declared in contravention of s. 22.   Thereis  no dispute that the strikes were in contravention of  s.22.  The appellants rely on s. 24(3) of the Act under  whicha  strike  declared in consequence of  an  illegal  lock-outshall  not be deemed to be illegal and say that the  strikeshad  been  in  consequence of an  illegal  lock-out  by	 theCompany of the three hundred workers of the Hot324Mill  by the notices of April 8, and April 25.	It is  clearthat   if  there  was  such  a	lock-out,  it  was   illegalunder  s. 24(1) for it would be clearly in contravention  ofs.  22.The   question	then  is,  was	there  a  lock-out  by	 theCompany?   The	learned Advocate for  the  appellants  firstcontends that the notices use the same words as are used  inthe  definition	 of  a lock-out in s. 2(1) of  the  Act	 andtherefore  by those notices the Company locked-out the	men.We think that this argument is unfounded.  The definition sofar as is material reads, " lock-out means the refusal by anemployer to continue to employ any number of persons employ-ed by him." In the notices the words are " considered to  beno  longer employed " while the definition uses the words  "refusal	 by the employer to continue to employ."  Therefore,the words are not the same.  Furthermore, the words used  inthe  notices and in the definition have to be read in  theirrespective contexts.  For reasons to appear later, the wordsused in the notices meant a discharge of the employees	fromservice	 while	the  words used in  the	 definition  do	 notcontemplate such a discharge of the workmen.The  Courts  below have come to the finding  that  by  thesenotices	 the  three  hundred workers of the  Hot  Mill	weredischarged  on April 10, 1953, and had not been	 locked-out.The  learned Advocate for the appellants says that  in	thisthe  Courts were wrong.	 He puts his arguments in two  ways.First,	he says that the notices did not effect a  dischargetill  April 28, 1953, and they had in the meantime  resultedin  a  lockout of the workers from April 10,  1953,  in	 thesense  that their services had not been terminated but	theyhad  not  been allowed to attend to their duties.   Then  hesays  that  even if the notices effected a  discharge,	thenalso  there  was a lock-out, for a discharge  is  equally  alock-out within the meaning of its definition in the Act  asthe prevention by an employer of the workers from  attendingto their duties without discharging them, is.Did the notices then effect a discharge ? We agree with	 theCourts below that they did.  The learned			    325Advocate  for the appellants contends that the	two  noticestaken  together	 make it perfectly clear that there  was  nodischarge  of  any employee prior to 11 a. m. of  April	 28,1953.	He says that the notice of April 25, shows that	 thenotice	of April 8, did not effect any discharge,  for,	 thefirst  mentioned notice ,jays that the formal discharge	 hadbeen kept pending and it also required the workers to recordtheir  willingness  to	operate	 the  plant  to	 its  normalcapacity  by 11 a. m. on April 28, and further	stated	thatfailing this their names would be removed from the Company'sroll and their discharge would become fully effective.We are unable to read the notices in the way suggested.	 Thenotice	of April 8, clearly stated that unless	the  workersnotified  their	 willingness  to operate the  plant  to	 itsnormal	capacity  by  2 p. m. on April	10,  they  would  beconsidered to be no longer in the employment of the Company.It  plainly  meant  that  on their  failure  to	 record	 thewillingness  by the time mentioned, the workers would  ceaseto  be in the employment of the Company, that is,  in  otherwords,	discharged.  Taken by itself, we do not think it  iscapable	 of any other meaning.	We are also unable to  agreethat  there  is anything in the notice of  April  25,  whichwould  show that a different meaning ought to be put on	 thewords  used  in the notice of April 8,	than  they  normallybear.	The  later notice also states that the	workers	 badbeen  considered  to be no longer employed  from  April	 10.Hence  it maintains that the workers had been discharged  onApril  10.  It no doubt says that the formal  discharge	 hadbeen kept pending but that only means, as is clear from	 thelast paragraph of the notice, that the names of the  workershad  not  been removed from the Company's  roll.   The	word"formal"  must have its due meaning; it emphasises that	 thereal  discharge had already taken place.  We may also  statethat  it has not been contended before us that there can  beno  discharge till a worker's name is removed from the	rolland,  without  more,  we do not think  that  we	 would	haveaccepted  that contention if made.  The removal of the	nameof a worker from the roll follows his discharge and that is42326what  was  meant by the statement in the notice "  that	 theformal	discharge had been kept pending."The circumstances which led to the issuing of the notice  ofApril  25  also	 show that the	workers	 had  actually	beendischarged  on	April 10.  What had  happened was  that	 theLabour	Minister  of  the  Government  of  West	 Bengal	 hadintervened  in	the  dispute between  the  Company  and	 itsworkers.  He met the workers and on April 21, 1953, that is,after  the  termination	 of the first of  the  two  strikes,suggested  certain terms for the settlement of the  dispute.His  suggestion was that " if the workers of the Hot  Mills,who  stand  discharged from 2 p.m. of April 10, 1953,  as  aconsequence  of their disregarding the notice issued on	 8thApril,	1953,  report themselves for  duty  immediately	 andrecord their willingness to operate the plant to its  normalcapacity, the Government would recommend their reinstatementto the Management." A copy of this suggestion was  forwardedto the Company by the Government with a request to implementthe  recommendations contained in it with a further  requestto  give  the  suggestion a  wide  publicity.	The  companycirculated  the	 Labour	 Minister's  suggestion	 among	 theworkers	 and to comply with his request to implement it,  itissued	the  notice  of April 25, to which  a  copy  of	 thesuggestion  was attached.  It is, therefore, clear that	 allthat  the Company intended to do by the notice of April	 25,was  to	 comply with the Government's suggestion and  so  tocancel	the discharge of the workers of the Hot	 Mill  whichhad already taken effect and reinstate them in their  formeremployments  if	 the workers carried out their part  of	 thesuggestion.   This notice, therefore, does not	support	 thecontention  that  the workers had not been  discharged	tillApril 28, 1953.We may also state that there is no evidence that prior to  2p.m.  of April 10, 1953, any employee had been prevented  bythe Company from attending to his duty.The next question is whether a discharge of employees by  anemployer  amounts to a lock-out.  It is said that the  wordsused in the definition of a lock-out,			    327namely,	 "the refusal by an employer to continue  to  employany  number of persons employed by him' cover the  dischargeof  employees by an employer.  The contention so raised	 wasrejected by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in Presidency JuteMills.	 Co.  Ltd. v. Presidency Jute  Mills  Co.  EmployeesUnion  (1).  We are in entire agreement with the view  thereexpressed.It seems to us that to construe the definition as  includinga discharge would be against the entire tenor of the Act andalso  against  the meaning of a lock-out  as  understood  inindustrial relations.By virtue of s. 22 of the Act, in a public utility  ,serviceno worker can go on strike nor can an employer lock-out	 hisworkmen	 without  giving  notice of strike  or	of  lock-outwithin	six weeks before the strike or lock-out as the	casemay be or within fourteen days of such notice or before	 thedate  fixed  in such notice or during the  pendency  of	 anyconciliation  proceedings before a conciliation officer	 andseven  days  after  the	 conclusion  thereof.	Section	  23prohibits   strikes  and  lock-outs  in	  other	  industrialestablishments	 during	  the	pendency   of	conciliationproceedings  before a Board and for seven  days	 thereafter.Section 24(1) makes a strike and a lock-out in contraventionof ss. 10, 22 and 23, illegal.	Section 24(2) provides	thata strike declared in consequence of an illegal lock-out	 anda  lock-out  declared in consequence of	 an  illegal  strikeshall not be illegal.  Section 25 prohibits the spending  ofmoney on illegal strikes and lock-outs.The  Act therefore treats strikes and lock-outs on the	samebasis;	it  treats one as the counterpart of the  other.   Astrike	is a weapon of the workers while a lock-out that  ofthe employer.  A strike does not, of course, contemplate theseverance of the relation of employer and employed; it wouldbe strange in these circumstances if a lock-out did so.Under the provisions of s. 22, a lock-out cannot be declaredin a public utility service immediately; it can be  declaredonly  after  the  date fixed in the  notice  and  cannot  bedeclared  within fourteen days of the giving of the  notice.Now, if a discharge is included in a(1)  [1952] L A.C. 62.328lock-out, an employer in such a service cannot discharge hisemployee, except after the time specified.  Now, that  wouldoften make it impossible for the   employer to carry on	 hisbusiness.   It	is  conceivable	  that an  employee  may  beguilty	of such misconduct that his immediate  discharge  isessential.   Indeed., there is no reason to think that	suchcases  would  be   very infrequent.  In such a	case  if  anemployer  is  prevented on pain	 of  being  made  criminallyliable under s. 27 from discharging the employee forthwith,irreparable  mischief may be caused to his works or  seriouspersonal injury -to himself or his other employees.  We haveno  reason  to think that the Act intended  such  a  result.Again, if a lock-out included a discharge, then there  wouldbe  a conflict between ss. 22 and 23 on the one hand and  s.33 on the other.  As has already been stated, ss. 22 and  23prohibit  a lock-out of workers during the pendency  of	 theconciliation proceedings, therein mentioned, and seven	daysthereafter. According to the interpretation suggested by thelearned	 Advocate  for the appellants, during this  time  noworker could at all be discharged for a lock-out includes  adischarge,  it being remembered that the prohibition in	 thesection	 is absolute.  Under s. 33 however, an	employer  isprohibited during the pendency of a conciliation proceeding,from discharging a workman concerned in the dispute for	 anymisconduct connected with such dispute save with the expresspermission  of the authority before whom the  proceeding  ispending.   So if a lock out includes a discharge, under	 ss.22 and 23 there can be no discharge during the	conciliationproceedings  while under s. 33 there could be one  with	 thepermission of the authority conducting the proceeding.	If adischarge  amounted  to a lock-out, an absurd  result  wouldthus be produced.By an amendment made on October 2, 1953, certain  provisionshave  been introduced into the Act which would show  clearlythat  a	 lock-out as defined in s. 2(1), which	section	 hasbeen left unaltered by the amendment, was never intended  toinclude a discharge of			    329workmen.   We  refer  first  to s.  2(oo)  by  which  a	 newdefinition  was	 introduced in the Act which, so far  as  isnecessary  for	the  present purpose,  is  in  these  words:Retrenchment  means the termination by the employer  of	 theservice	 of  a workman for any reason  whatsoever  otherwisethan  as  a  punishment inflicted  bY  way  of	disciplinaryaction.If  lock-out  includes	a discharge,  then  retrenchment  asdefined	 in  s.	 2(oo) would also  clearly  be	a  lock-out.Obviously, if that were so, then retrenchment would not havebeen  separately  defined.   Again,  tinder  s.	 25F,	alsointroduced  into the Act by the amendment, a workman may  beretrenched by paying him wages for a month, the compensationprovided, and on notice to the Government.  If	retrenchmentwas  a form of lockout, then there would clearly be  a	con-flict  between ss. 22 and 23 on the one hand and s.  25F  onthe other.  Section 2(oo) and s. 25F were, no doubt, not  inthe  Act  at  the  date of the notices	with  which  we	 areconcerned,  but	 since s. 2(1) was not amended	it  must  betaken that its meaning remained after the amendment what  itwas before.  Since the amendment made it clear that s.	2(1)did  not  include  a  retrenchment,  it	 follows  that	thatdefinition  did	 not  include a retrenchment  prior  to	 theamendment.   If	 it  did not then  include  a  retrenchment,neither	 could	it  include a  discharge,  for,	 plainly,  aretrenchment is but one form of discharge.It,  therefore, seems to us that the words " refusal  by  anemployer  to  continue	to  employ  any	 number	 of  personsemployed by him " in s. 2(1) do not include the discharge ofan employee.  We feel no difficulty in taking this view, forit  does not seem to us that the words "refusal to  continueto  employ" in s. 2(1) plainly include a  discharge.   Thesewords  have to be read with the rest of the  definition	 andalso  the word lock-out.  The other parts of the  definitioncontemplate  no	 severance of the relation of  employer	 andemployed.   The	 word  "  lock-out  ",	as  stated  in	 thePresidency Jute Mills Co's case (1), in its dictionary sensemeans refusal on the part of an employer to furnish work  tohis operatives except on conditions to(1)  [1952] L.A.C. 62.330be  accepted by the latter collectively.   Therefore,  inouropinion,   the	rules  of  interpretation  do  not   preventus  from  giving  to the words used in	the  definition	 themeaning	  "  a	refusal	 by  the  employer  to	 allow	 anynumber of persons employed by him to attend to their  dutieswithout	 effecting a termination of service as was  done  inthe Presidency Jute Mills Co's case (1),  which would  avoidone part of the Act coming in conflict with another.The  last  point  raised  is  about  the  propriety  of	 thesanction.  Section 34(1) of the Act provides,No  court  shall take cognisance of any	 offence  punishableunder  this  Act    save on complaint made by or  under	 theauthority of the ap. propriate Government.The   learned  Advocate	 for  the  appellants	relying	  onGokalchand  Dwarkadas  Morarka	v. The	King  (2),  where  aprovision somewhat similar to s. 34(1) was considered by theJudicial  Committee, contended that the sanction granted  inthe  present  case by the Government of the West  Bengal  tofile the complaint against the appellants was bad as it	 hadbeen granted without reference to the facts constituting theoffence.  It is true that the sanction does not on the	faceof  it refer to the facts constituting the  offence.   Thereis,  however, ample evidence in this case, which we did	 notunderstand  the	 learned  Advocate  for	 the  appellants  tochallenge  and	which clearly establishes  that	 the  entirefacts connected with the offence had been placed before	 thesanctioning authority and the sanction had been granted on aconsideration  of them.	 The Judicial committee in the	caseabove-mentioned	 itself observed that the sanction would  begood  if it was proved by evidence that it had been  grantedafter  all  the necessary facts had been placed	 before	 thesanctioning authority though these facts might not have beenstated	on  the face of the sanction itself.   It  thereforeseems  to  us  that  the sanction in  the  present  case  isunobjectionable.We feel, therefore, that the appeal must fail.	We think  itright however in the circumstances of this case and in	viewof the long lapse of time since the(1) [1952] L.A.C. 62.	     (1948) L.R. 75 I.A. 30.331case started, to modify the sentence passed.  In our view, asentence  of  simple  imprisonment for	the  period  alreadyserved and a fine of Rs. 100 with simple imprisonment for  aperiod of fifteen days in default of payment of the fine foreach appellant will be sufficient in this case and we  orderaccordingly.Subject to this modification of the sentence, this appeal isdismissed.		     Appeal dismissed.