PETITIONER:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,MADHYA PRADESH AND BHOPAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:SODRA DEVI(with connected appeal)DATE OF JUDGMENT:17/05/1957BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, S.K.KAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1957 AIR  832		  1958 SCR    1ACT:Income-tax-Computation of total income-'Individual', Meaningof-Indian  Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI Of 1922), as amended  bythe Indian Income-tax (Amendment) Act, 1937 (IV Of 1937), S.16(3).HEADNOTE:The  common question of law for determination in  these	 twoappeals	 was whether the word 'individual ' in s.  16(3)  ofthe  'Indian Income-tax Act, 1922, as amended by Act  IV  of1937, includes a female and whether the income of minor sonsfrom  a	 partnership,  to the benefits of  which  they	wereadmitted,  was liable to be included in computing the  totalincome of the mother who was a member of the partnership.Held, (Per Bhagwati and Kapur jj., S. K. Das J.	 dissenting)that the question must be answered in the negative.The  word 'individual' occurring in s. 16(3) of	 the  IndianIncome-tax  Act, as amended by Act IV Of 1937, means only  amale and does not include a female.Shrimati  Chanda  Devi v. The  Commissioner  of	 Income-tax,(1950) 18 I.T.R. 944 and Musta Quima Begum, In re, (1953) 23I.T.R. 345, disapproved.Where the Legislature uses ambiguous language in enacting  astatute,  as  it has undoubtedly done in the  instant  case,recourse  must	necessarily be had, for a  clarification  ofsuch  ambiguity,  to the pre-existing state of	the  law  inorder  to  see	what defect or mischief	 therein  was  beingsought to be remedied, the remedy that was prescribed by thestatute and the reason for it.Bengal	Immunity  Company  Limited v. The  State  of  Bihar,(1955)	2 S.C.R. 603, Thomson v. Lord Clanmorris,  (1900)  1Ch.   D. 718 and Eastman Photographic Materials	 Company  v.Comptroller  General  of Patents, Designs and  Trade  Marks,(1898) A.C. 571, relied on.A reference to the Income-Tax Enquiry Report, 1936, and	 theStatement of objects and reasons that led to the passing  ofthe  Indian Income-tax (Amendment) Act IV of 1937  makes  itclear  beyond  doubt that the mischief the  Legislature	 wasseeking	 to  remedy  was one that resulted  from  a  husbandentering into a2nominal partnership with his wife or a father admitting	 hisminor  children	 to the benefits of a partnership,  and	 thepossibility of a mother doing so was not even thought of.Per  S. K. Das J.-There is no ambiguity in s. 16(3)  of	 theIndian	Income-Tax Act, as amended by Act IV Of	 1937,	and,read  in the context of the other provisions of the Act	 andconstrued  as  a  whole,  it  clearly  indicates  that	 theLegislature used the word 'individual ' in that	 sub-sectionin its ordinary connotation to mean both a male and a femaleperson.Even  if, on the assumption that there is ambiguity  in	 thephraseology  used in the sub-section, reference is  made  tothe  Income-Tax Enquiry Report, 1936, and the  Statement  ofobjects	 and reasons of the Amending Act IV of 1937 for	 thelimited	 purpose for which it is permissible to do so,	theydisclose  nothing  concerning  the  policy  adopted  by	 theLegislature  or	 the  object the, statute  was	intended  toaccomplish  that  makes any other meaning  inevitable.	 Therecommendations	 made by the Report were not fully  acceptedby the Legislature and it cannot be a reliable guide and theuse of the word 'parent' in the Statement clearly shows thatthe mischief envisaged was not confined to the father alone.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 322 and  25of 1955.Appeal from the judgment and order dated April 13, 1954,  ofthe Nagpur High Court in Miscellaneous Civil Case No. 71  of1956 and appeal from the judgment and order dated August 26,1952, of the Punjab High Court in Civil Reference No. 11  of1952.C.   K.	 Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, G.  N.  Joshiand R. H. Dhebar, for the appellant in C.A. No. 322 of	1955and respondent in C.A. No. 25 of 1955.R.   J. Kolah, J. B.  Dadachanji, S. N. Andley and RameshwarNath, for the respondent in C.A. No. 322 of 1955.G.   S.	 Pathak and M. L. Kapur, for the appellant  in	C.A.No. 25 of 1955.1957.  May 17.	The Judgment of Bhagwati and J.L. Kapur	 JJ.was  delivered	by  Bhagwati  J. S.K.  Das  J.	delivered  aseparate judgment.BHAGWATI  J.-These  two	 appeals  with	certificates   underSection	 66A (2) of the Indian Income-Tax  Act	(hereinafterreferred  to as the Act) raise a common question of law	 andwill be governed by this common judgment.3The facts leading up to these appeals may be shortly  statedas under.Prior  to October 18, 1944, one Rai Bahadur Narsingdas	Daga(since	 deceased),   his  wife	 Shrimati   Sodradevi	(theassessee),  and	 his  three  major  and	 three	minor	sonsconstituted a joint and undivided Hindu family.	 There was aseverance  of joint status between the erstwhile members  ofthe  said  joint family on October 18, 1944, and  the  jointfamily	properties  were accordingly partitioned.   On	suchpartition,  the business of the Spinning and  Weaving  Millsand  agency  shop  at Hinganghat fell to the  share  of	 theassessee  and  her  three major and  three  minor  sons.   Apartnership  was entered into between the assessee  and	 herthree major sons for the purpose of carrying on the businessof  the	 Spinning and Weaving Mills and the agency  firm  atHinganghat.   The  three  minor sons of	 the  assessee	wereadmitted   to	the  benefits  of  the	 partnership.	 Thegenuineness  of the partnership was not disputed.  The	onlyquestion  which arose for the consideration of the  Tribunalwas  whether  the income falling to the share of  the  threeminor sons was liable to be included in the total income  ofthe  assessee.	Oil a construction of s. 16 (3) (a) (ii)  ofthe  Act, the Tribunal held that the income falling  to	 theshares of the three minor sons of the assessee was liable tobe  included  in her total income.  The	 assessee  thereuponapplied to the Tribunal for a reference to the High Court ofJudicature  at Nagpur of the question of law arising out  ofits  order  under  s. 66 (1) of the  Act  and  the  Tribunalsubmitted  a  statement	 of  case  referring  the  followingquestion of law for the determination of the High Court:"  Whether  on	a true construction  of	 the  provisions  ofsection 16 (3) (a) (ii) of the Indian Income-tax Act,  1922,the income of the three minor sons of the assessee is liableto be included in her total income.  "The  High  Court  heard	 the  reference	 and  came  to	 theconclusion that it was not the intention of the	 Legislatureto  include in the income of the mother, the income  of	 herminor children arising from the benefits of partnership of afirm in which the mother is a4partner	 and accordingly answered the referred	question  inthe   negative.	  The  High  Court,  however,  granted	 thenecessary  certificate	under s. 66A (2) of the Act  to	 theCommissioner of Income-tax, Madhya Pradesh and Bhopal, andhence Civil Appeal No. 322 of 1955 before us.One  Ishwardas	Sahni who died on November 7,  1946,  was  apartner in the firm of Messrs.	Ishwardas Sahni & Bros.	 Thefirm's	accounting year ended on March 31, 1947.   The	saidIshwardas Sahni left him surviving his widow Damayanti	(theassessee) and two minor sons.  The assessee became a partnerin  the said firm which also admitted her two minor sons  tothe benefits of the partnership.  The Income-tax authoritiesincluded the minor sons' shares in the reconstituted  firm'sprofits	 in  computing	the income of the  assessee  on	 theground that " individual " in s. 16 (3) (a) (ii) of the	 Actmeant  an individual person of either sex.   The  Income-taxAppellate  Tribunal held that the word "individual" must  betaken  as  referring only to a male assessee  wherever	thatoccurred  in  s. 16 (3) and directed the deletion  from	 theassessee's  income  of the shares of her minor sons  in	 theprofits of the firm.  At the instance of the Commissioner ofIncome-tax,  Delhi, the Tribunal referred to the High  Courtof  Punjab at Simla the question of law arising out  of	 itsorder  under s. 66 (1) of the Act together with a  statementof case.  The referred question was:-" Whether the word " individual " in Section 16(3) (a)	(ii)of  the	 Income Tax Act, 1922, includes also  a	 female	 andwhether	 the  shares  of  the two  minor  sons	of  ShrimatiDamayanti Sahni in the profits of the re-constituted firm ofMessrs.	 Ishwardas Sahni and Brothers should be included  inthe  income  of Shrimati Damayanti Sahni  in  assessing	 herincome, profits and gains.  "The  High  Court  heard	 the  reference	 and  following	 thedecision  given by the High Court of Allahabad	in  ShrimatiChanda	Devi v. The Commissioner of Incometax (1),  answeredthe referred question in the affirmative.(1)  [1950] 18 I.T.R. 944.5The assessee obtained the requisite certificate under s. 66A(2)  of	 the Act from the High Court and that is  how  CivilAppeal No. 25 of 1955 is before us.The  common  question of law which we have to  determine  inthese  appeals is whether the word " individual " in  s.  16(3)  (a)  (ii)	of the Act includes also a  female  and	 theincome	of the minor sons derived from a partnership to	 thebenefits  of which they have been admitted is liable  to  beincluded in the income of the mother who is a member of thatpartnership.Section 16(3) of the Act provides:" In computing the total income of any individual for  thepurpose of assessment, there shall be included-(a)  so much of the income of a wife or minor child of	suchindividual as arises directly or indirectly:(i)from	 the membership of the wife in a firm of  which	 herhusband is a partner;(ii)from  the admission of the minor to the benefits of	 thepartnership in a firm of which such individual is a partner;(iii)from  assets transferred directly or indirectly to	 thewife   by   the	  husband  otherwise   than   for   adequateconsideration  or  in connection with an agreement  to	liveapart; or(iv)from  assets transferred directly or indirectly  to	 theminor	child,	not  being  a  married	daughter,  by	suchindividual otherwise than for adequate consideration; and(b)so  much  of the income of any person or  association  ofpersons as arises from assets transferred otherwise than foradequate consideration to the person or association by	suchindividual  for the benefit of his wife or a minor child  orboth."Section 3 of the Act may also be referred to in this contextand it runs as follows:Section 3. Charge of Income Tax:"  Where  any Central Act enacts that  income-tax  shall  becharged for any year at any rate or rates, tax at that	rateor those rates shall be charged for that year in  accordancewith,  and subject to the provisions of this Act in  respectof  the	 total	income	of  the	 previous  year-  of   everyindividual, Hindu undivided6family, company and local authority, and of every firm	and-other association of persons or the partners of the firm  orthe members of the association individually."The same description of the assessee is also to be found  ins.   4A,   which  deals	 with  residence  in   the   taxableterritories,  s.  48 dealing with refund and s.	 58  dealingwith the charge of super-tax.The  word  assessee  is wide enough to	cover  not  only  an"individual" but also a Hindu undivided family, company	 andlocal  authority  and every firm and  other  association  ofpersons	 or the partners of the firm or the members  of	 theassociation  individually.  Whereas the word " individual  "is  narrower in its connotation being one of the  units	 forthe  purposes  of taxation than the word " assessee  ",	 theword  "	 individual " has not been defined in  the  Act	 andthere  is  authority  for the proposition that	the  word  "individual  " does not mean only a human being but  is	wideenough to include a group of persons forming a unit.  It hasbeen  held that the word " individual " includes a  Corpora-tion  created  by  a statute, e.g., a University  or  a	 BarCouncil,  or the trustees of a baronetcy trust	incorporatedby  a  Baronetcy Act.  It would also include a	minor  or  aperson	of unsound mind.  If this is the connotation of	 theword  " individual " it follows that when s. 16(3) talks  ofan  "individual" it is only in a restricted sense  that	 theword has been used.  The section only talks of "  individual"  capable  of	having a wife or minor child  or  both.	  Ittherefore  necessarily excludes from its purview a group  ofpersons forming a unit or a corporation created by a statuteand  is	 confined only to human beings who  in	the  contextwould be -comprised within that category.The Revenue urges before us that the word " individual "  asused  qua  human beings is capable of including	 within	 itsconnotation  a male as well as a female of the	species	 andhaving regard to the context in which the word has been usedin s. 16(3), it should be construed as meaning a male of thespecies	 when used in Juxtaposition with " a wife "  and  asmeaning both a male and a female when used in  juxtapositionwith "minor child" so that when s. 16(3) talks of7such  individual"  in  sub-cls. (ii) and  (iv)	of  cl.	 (a)thereof it refers to both a male and a female of the speciesso as to include within its compass not only a father of theminor child but also a mother.The  assessees, on the other hand, contend that the  word  "individual  "  used in s. 16(3) is not used in	its  genericsense  but  is used in a restricted and	 narrower  sense  asconnoting  only	 human being and if it	is  thus  restrictedthere  is  ample  justification	 for  restricting  it  stillfurther	 to  the male of the species when  regarded  in	 thecontext of s. 16(3).  Sub-clauses (i) to (iv) of cl. (a) arespecific  cases where the income of a wife or a minor  childof ,such individual" arising directly or indirectly from theseveral	 sources  therein  indicated is to  be	included  incomputing  the	total  income of the  "individual"  for	 thepurpose of assessment and the word could not have been 'Usedin  a different sense for the purposes of sub-cls.  (i)	 and(iii)  and  sub cls. (ii) and (iv) of cl. (a).	The  word  "such individual " as used in sub-cl. (a) can only have	beenused  in  one sense and one sense only and if  that  is	 thesense  in which it could have been used " such individual  "should be one who is capable of having a wife or minor childor  both  and  that individual can only be  a  male  of	 thespecies and not a female.The question for our determination is a very narrow one	 andit  turns on the construction of s. 16(3) of the  Act.	 TheHigh  Court  of	 Madhya	 Pradesh  plunged  headlong  into  adiscussion  of the reasons which motivated  the	 Legislatureinto  enacting	s. 16 (3) by Act IV of 1937, and  took	intoconsideration  the  recommendations made in the	 Income	 TaxEnquiry	 Report, 1936 and also the statement of objects	 andreasons	 for the enactment of the same, without	 consideringin the first instance whether there was any ambiguity in theword individual " as used therein.  It is clear that  unlessthere  is  any such ambiguity it would not be  open  to	 thecourt  to depart from the normal rule of construction  whichis that the intention of the Legislature should be primarilygathered from the words which are used.	 It is only when thewords  used  are  ambiguous  that they	would  stand  to  beexamined and8construed  in  the light of  surrounding  circumstances	 andconstitutional principle and practice (Per Lord Ashbourne inNairn v. University of St. Andrews(1).	In the latter  eventthe following observations of Lord Lindley M. R. in  Thomsonv. Lord Clanmorris(2) would be apposite:" In construing any statutory enactment, regard must be	 hadnot  only to the words used, but to the history of  the	 Actand  the  reasons which led to its being passed.   You	mustlook at the mischief which had to be cured as well as at thecure  provided" (See also the observations of Goddard C.  J.in B. v. Paddington and St. Marylebone Rent Tribunal (3).The position in law has been thus enunciated in the judgmentof Das, Actg.  C.J. (as he then was) in the Bengal  ImmunityCompany Limited v. The State of Bihar (4) :"  It  is a sound rule of construction of a  statute  firmlyestablished  in	 England as far back as 1584  when  Heydon'sCase (5) was decided that-  "............ for the sure and true interpretation of	 allstatutes   in	general	 (be  they  penal   or	 beneficial,restrictive or enlarging of the common law) four things	 areto be discerned and considered:1st.  What was the common law before the making of the Act.,2nd.  What was the mischief and defect for which the  commonlaw did not provide.,3rd.  What remedy the Parliament hath resolved and appointedto cure the disease of the Commonwealth., and4th.  The true reason of the remedy; and then the office  ofall  judges  is always to make such  construction  as  shallsuppress  the  mischief,  and advance  the  remedy,  and  tosuppress  subtle inventions and evasions for continuance  ofthe mischief, and pro privato commodo, and to add force	 andlife to the cure and remedy, according to the true intent ofthe makers of the Act, pro bono publico.  "(1)  (1909) A.C. 147.(2)  (1900) 1 Ch.  D. 718, 725(3)  (1949) 65 T.L.R. 200, 203.(4)  (1955) 2 S.C.R. 603, 632.(5) (1584) 3 Co. Rep. 7a; 76 E.R. 637,9In In re Mayfair Property Company (1) Lindley M. R. in	1898found  the rule " as necessary now as it was when Lord	Cokereported Heydon's case ". In Eastman Photographic  MaterialsCompany v. Comptroller General of Patents, Designs and TradeMarks (2) Earl of Halsbury re-affirmed the rule as follows:"  My Lords, it appears to me that to construe	the  statutenow  in	 question,  it is not  only  legitimate	 but  highlyconvenient  to	refer  both to the former  Act	and  to	 theascertained  evils to which the former Act had	given  rise,and to the later Act which provided the remedy.	 These threethings being compared, I cannot doubt the conclusion."The  High Court of Punjab based its conclusion primarily  onthe  use  of the word "or" between the word "wife"  and	 thewords "minor child" in s. 16(3)(a) of the Act and it was  ofopinion	 that  these words were used disjunctively  and	 the"individual" referred to in s. 16(3) (a) of the Act may havea  wife and minor child or may not have a wife but have a  "minor child ". If the individual assessed to income tax is afemale that individual will have no wife but she may have  aminor child and therefore s. 16 (3) (a) of the Act does	 notimply that the individual must necessarily be a male.The  argument  based  on the disjunctive user  of  the	word"wife"	and  the  words "minor child" is  capable  of  beingsummarily disposed of.	Even if the words "such	 individual"in s. 16 (3)(a) of the Act meant only a male of the  speciesthe word "wife" and the words "minor child" could only	havebeen  used  with the word "or" in between.  A  male  of	 thespecies	 may. not necessarily have both a wife and  a  minorchild.	 He  may have a wife but no "minor child".   He	 mayhave  a	 minor child but may have no wife  at  the  relevantperiod.	  If  therefore	 provision had to be  made  for	 theinclusion of the income of a wife or minor child or both  inthe total income of a male of the species the word "or"	 wasabsolutely  necessary  to  be interposed  between  the	word"wife"	and the words 'minor child".  To construe  the	word"or" as disjunctive between the word "wife" and(1) L.R. (1898) 2 Ch. 28, 35.(2) (1898) A.C. 571, 576.10the  words  "minor child" does not necessarily lead  to	 theconclusion  that the words "such individual" were  used	 forboth a male and a female of the species and were necessarilyinconsistent  with the user of those words for the  male  ofthe   species  if  the	context	 otherwise  lead   to	thatconclusion.  The reasoning adopted by the learned Judges  ofthe  High  Court  of Punjab therefore does  not	 clinch	 thematter.We have therefore got to examine whether the use of the word"individual"  in  s. 16(3) (a) of the Act is in	 any  mannerambiguous.   The  opening  words of s. 16(3)  talk  of	"anyindividual"  whose total income has got to be  computed	 forthe  purpose of assessment and the words  "such	 individual"used  in  section  16(3) (a) have  reference  only  to	thatindividual.   That individual must be an assessee and it  isin  the computation of his total income for the	 purpose  ofassessment that the income of the persons mentioned in	cls.(a) and (b) have got to be included.  Sub-clause (a)  refersto two distinct sets of persons bearing a relationship	with"such  individual",  the assessee.  One is a  wife  and	 theother is a minor child.	 The case of the wife is dealt	within  sub-cls. (i) and (iii) and the case of a minor child  isdealt in sub-cls. (ii) and (iv).  Sub-clauses (i) and  (iii)use the word "her husband" or "the husband" in place of	 thewords "such individual" with reference to the income derivedby the wife in the circumstances therein mentioned,  though,it  may	 be  observed  that the	 user  of  the	words  "suchindividual" would not have made the slightest difference  tothe  position.	Subclauses (ii) and (iv) which deal  with  a"minor child" use the words "such individual" in relation tothe minor child whose income under the circumstances thereinmentioned  has to be included in computing the total  incomeof "such individual" for the purpose of assessment.  Whereasthe  words used in sub-cls. (i) and (iii) are  specific	 andrefer  only  to	 "her husband" and "the	 husband"  as  "suchindividual", the words used in sub-cls. (ii) and (iv)  leaveit  indefinite	as  to which is meant  by  the	words  "suchindividual"  whether a male and/or a female of the  species.If the words used in all these four sub-clauses were to be11harmoniously  read and the two cases which are mentioned  insub-cls.  (i) and (iii) are not to be read differently	fromthe  cases mentioned in sub-cls. (ii) and (iv) the only	 wayin  which  the words "such individual" as used	in  sub-cls.(ii)  and (iv) could be understood would be to read them  asconfined  to  a male of the species and	 not  including	 thefemale.	  If these words "such individual" as used  in	sub-cls. (ii) and (iv) are thus read restricted to a male of thespecies, all these sub-clauses would have reference only  tothe  male of the species irrespective of the fact  that	 thewords "her husband" and "the husband" have been used in sub-cls.  (i) and (iii) instead of the words "such	individual".If the words "such individual" had been used in sub-cls. (i)and  (iii) as they have been used in sub-cls. (ii) and	(iv)the  position would have been just the same because in	thatevent also we would have had to determine whether there	 wasany  justification for reading the words  "such	 individual"used  with  reference  to  sub-cls. (i)	 and  (iii)  in	 anydifferent  sense  from the same words "such  individual"  asused  in sub-cls. (ii) and (iv).  The crux of the  question,therefore,  is whether the words "such individual"  used  inthe opening part of s. 16 (3) (a) are used to mean a male ofthe  species  when they are read in juxtaposition  with	 thewords "a wife" and are used to mean both a male as well as afemale	of  the species, as the case may be,  when  used  injuxtaposition with the words "minor child".If  that  was  the intention of the  Legislature  there	 wasnothing	 to prevent it from dividing cl. (a) into  two	sub-clauses	 whether they were numbered (a) and (ai) or (a)	 and(b)  respectively.   The  Legislature  could  as  well	haveenacted the provisions in the manner following:(a):so	much of the income of a wife of such  individual  asarises directly or indirectly;(i)from	 the membership of the wife in a firm of  which	 herhusband (or such individual) is a partner; or(ii)from  assets transferred directly or indirectly  to	 thewife by the husband (or such individual)12otherwise  than for adequate consideration or in  connectionwith an agreement to live apart;(ai) or (b): so much of the income of a minor child of	suchindividual as arises directly or indirectly ;(i)from	 the admission of the minor to the benefits  of	 thepartnership in a firm of which such individual is a partner;or(ii)from  assets transferred directly or indirectly  to	 theminor	child,	not  being  a  married	daughter,  by	suchindividual otherwise than for adequate consideration.If these provisions had been enacted in the manner aforesaidit  would  have	 been possible to urge, as  has	 been  urgedbefore	us by the Revenue, that cl. (a) referred only  to  amale of the species who only could have a wife and cl.	(ai)or (b) referred to a male and/or a female of the species.The  Legislature however chose to adopt a peculiar  mode  ofenactment  either  for the purpose of economy  of  words  orstructural beauty and mixed up both these sets of provisionsinto  the enactment of cl. (a) of s. 16(3) of the Act as  itstands	at present.  It rolled in both these sets  of  casesand  used  the	words "a wife" or  "minor  child"  of  "suchindividual" raising thus the question of construction  whichhas  got  to be determined by us.  "Such individual"  as  istalked of in s. 16(3) (a) may have a wife, may have a  minorchild or may have both a wife and a minor child.  When "suchindividual" is thought of in connection with a wife, it	 canonly be a male of the species, but when "such individual" isthought of in connection with a minor child it can be both amale as well as a female of the species, though, of  course,when  "such  individual" is thought of	in  connection	with"both" then again it would have to be a male of the  speciesand  certainly not a female.  Such an  interpretation  wouldlead   to  the	interpretation	of  the	 same  words   "suchindividual" as meaning two different things in two differentcontexts.   They would mean one thing when used in  relationto  "a	wife"  and would mean another  thing  when  used  inrelation to a "	    minor child".  They would be capable' ofbeing understood in a narrower sense when used in connectionwith "a wife" and would be capable of being13understood  in a wider sense when used in connection with  a"minor child".	One may as well question the elegance or thepropriety of such user of the words "such individual"  wherethe  words  "as	 the  case may be"  are	 necessarily  to  beimported  in  order to understand the true import  of  thesewords,	when again they are used not in different  parts  ofthe same section but at one place only.If  one	 turns to s. 16 (3) (b) the words used	therein	 are"transferred............   by  "such  individual"  for	 thebenefit of his wife or a minor child or both".	There is theindefinite article "a" used before the words "minor  child".If  that  indefinite  article "a" had  not  been  used,	 theexpression  would have run "for the benefit of his  wife  orminor  child or both" thus leaving no doubt at all  that  incl.  (b) at least the words "such individual" meant  only  amale  of the species.  It is urged however that the  use  ofthe  indefinite article "a" shows that the words "his  wife"and  "minor child" mid "both" have been	 used  disjunctivelyand  should be read in the same manner as in s. 16(3)(a)  ofthe Act.  The words " his wife " would appropriately go witha  male of the species but the words "a minor  child"  wouldappropriately  go  with a male as well as a  female  of	 thespecies, though the word "both" could only be appropriate inrelation  to a male of the species and not a female who	 canhave  a minor child but not both a wife and a  minor  child.The same want of elegance or propriety can be predicated  ofthis expression also and the use of such expressions both ins.   16	 (3)(a)	 and  s.  16  (3)(b)  raise   questions	  ofconstruction  whether what was meant by the Legislature	 wasonly a male of the species in both these contexts or a	maleand/or	female of the species, as the case may be,  applyingone  or	 the  other in	accordance  with  the  circumstancesattendant, upon the computation of the total income of " anyindividual " for the purpose of assessment.We are of opinion that the very manner in which all the foursub-clauses have been grouped together in s. 16 (3) (a)	 andthe  manner in which the expression "for the benefit of	 hiswife,  a  minor	 child or both" is used in  s.	16  (3)	 (b)renders the words "any individual"			     14or " such individual " ambiguous.  There is no knowing	withcertainty as to whether the Legislature meant to enact theseprovisions  with  reference only to a male  of	the  speciesusing  the words "any individual" or " such individual "  inthe  narrower sense of the term indicated above or  intendedto  include  within  the  connotation  of  the	words	"anyindividual"  or	 " such individual " also a  female  of	 thespecies, wherever appropriate which would of course only  bepossible in the cases contemplated in sub-cls. (ii) and (iv)of s.	  16   (3)(a)  and  in	one  of	 the   three   casescontemplated in	    s. 16 (3)(b).  The Legislature certainlywas guilty of  using,  an ambiguous term in enacting  s.  16(3)  of	 the  Act  as it did.	In  order  to  resolve	thisambiguity therefore we must of necessity have resort to	 thestate of the law before the enactment of the provisions; themischief  and defect for which the law did not provide;	 theremedy which the legislature resolved and appointed to	curethe  defect  and; the true reason of the remedy	 within	 themeaning of the authorities referred to above.Before	the enactment of s. 16 (3) of the Act by the  IndianIncome-tax (Amendment) Act, 1937 (IV of 1937), there was  noprovision  at all for the inclusion of the income of a	wifeor a minor child in the computation of the total income of "any  individual " for the purpose of  assessment.   Whatevermay have been the income of a wife from her membership in  afirm  of  which	 her husband was a partner  or	from  assetstransferred  directly  or indirectly to her by	her  husbandotherwise  than for adequate consideration or in  connectionwith an agreement to live apart, her income was not includedin  the income of her husband in computing the total  incomeof  the husband for the purpose of assessment.	Similar	 wasthe position in the case of income derived by a minor  childfrom  the  admission  of  the  minor  to  the  benefits	  ofpartnership  in	 a  firm of which "such	 individual"  was  apartner or from assets transferred directly or indirectly tothe  minor  child, not being a married	daughter,  by  "suchindividual" otherwise than for adequate consideration.	 Theincome derived by such minor child could not be added to the15income	of  the father for the purpose of  assessment.	 Theincome	derived	 by the wife or minor child  could  only  beincluded  in  computing	 his or its  total  income  for	 thepurposes  of  assessment  and neither the  husband  nor	 thefather	could  be made liable for income-tax in	 respect  ofsuch income, whatever may be the reason which actuated	themin providing such income for the wife or the minor child.The position was pregnant with difficulties for the Revenue.There were no doubt genuine cases where a wife or the  minorchild  as the case may be, was provided with such income  onbona  fide severance of joint status between  the  erstwhilemembers	 of  a joint and undivided Hindu  family  and  whereafter such partition the adult member of the family  enteredinto  a bona fide -partnership admitting the minors  to	 thebenefits of the partnership.  There were, on the other hand,innumerable  cases where such severance of joint status	 wasresorted  to mainly with a view to evade a higher  incidenceof  income  tax.  There were also cases where  husbands	 andfathers	 provided shares for their wives and minor sons	 andthus evaded payment of income tax in regard to their  sharesin  the	 profits  of such partnerships.	 This  evil  was  sorampant that the Income Tax Enquiry Report, 1936, recognisedthe   same  and	 made  the  following  recommendations	 forremedying the situation (vide pp. 19 & 20 of the Report). CHAPTER III-Assessees  Section I-Individuals.(a)  Wife's  Income.   Our attention has been drawn  to	 theextent to which taxation is avoided by nominal	partnershipsbetween husband and wife and minor children.  In some  partsof  the	 country, avoidance of taxation by  this  means	 hasattained  very serious dimensions.  The obvious	 remedy	 forthis  state  of	 affairs  so far as  husband  and  wife	 areconcerned  is  the  aggregation	 for  assessment  of   theirincomes,  but such a course would involve aggregation  in  aquite different class of cases i.e., where the wife's incomearises from sources unconnected with the husband......... ....................................................			     .16We  recommend, therefore, that the incomes of a wife  shouldbe deemed to be, for income tax purposes, the income of	 herhusband,  but that where the income of the wife	 is  derivedfrom  her  personal exertions and is  unconnected  with	 anybusiness  of  her  husband, her	 income	 from  her  personalexertions  upto a certain limit, say Rs. 500, should not  beso included .(b)  Income of Minor Children.	There is also a growing	 andserious tendency to avoid taxation by the admission of minorchildren  to  the benefits of partnership  in  the  father'sbusiness.   Moreover,  the admission is, as a  rule,  merelynominal, but being supported by entries in the firm's books,the Income-Tax Officer is rarely in a position to prove thatthe alleged participation in the benefits of partnership  isunreal. ...............................We suggest that the income of a minor should be deemed to bethe income of the father (i) if it arises from the  benefitsof  partnership	 in  a business in which  the  father  is  apartner or (ii) if, being the income of a minor other than amarried	 daughter,  it is derived  from	 assets	 transferreddirectly or indirectly to the minor by his or her father  ormother,	 (iii) if it is derived from assets  apportioned  tohim in the partition of a Hindu Undivided Family.It  may	 be noted that the recommendations  of	the  EnquiryCommittee  even in the cases hereinbefore mentioned went  tothe length of including the income of the wife or the  minorchild as the case may be in the income of the husband or thefather	in  the	 computation of his  total  income  for	 thepurpose	 of  assessment.   The mischief	 which	the  EnquiryReport sought to remedy by its recommendations was one whichwas  the result of husbands entering into  nominal  partner-ships  between	themselves  and	 their	wives  and   fathersadmitting  their  minor	 children to the  benefits  of	suchpartnerships.	The  mischief, if any,	resulting  from	 themothers	 admitting their minor children to the	benefits  ofpartnerships  in which they were members was  farthest	fromthe thoughts of the Enquiry Committee and was nowhere soughtto be remedied.	 Having17regard to the circumstances which prevailed at the time whenthe  Enquiry  Committee made its report, the  only  mischiefwhich they sought to remedy by their recommendations was theone  resulting	from the male assessees	 indulging  in	suchtactics	 for the evasion of income tax by  creating  nominalpartnerships  between themselves and their wives on the	 onehand and their minor children on the other.These recommendations were duly considered by the Governmentand  as	 a  result  thereof  Act  IV  of  1937	was  enactedintroducing  a. 16(3) in the Act.  What was intended  to  bedone  by the Legislature in enacting this amendment  may  begleaned	 to a certain extent from the statement	 of  objectsand reasons appended to the Bill which eventually became theamending  Act.	Though it is not legitimate to refer to	 thestatement   of	objects	 and  reasons  as  an  aid  to	 theconstruction   or  for	ascertaining  the  meaning  of	 anyparticular word used in the Act or Statute (See Aswani KumarGhose v. Arabinda Bose (1), nevertheless, this Court in	 TheState of West Bengal v. Subodh Gopal Bose(2) referred to thesame "for the limited purpose of ascertaining the conditionsprevailing  at	the time which actuated the sponsor  of	 theBill  to  introduce the same and the extent and	 urgency  ofevil which he sought to remedy."The  statement	of  objects and reasons	 which	led  to	 thepassing of Act IV of 1937 ran as follows:"  Reference is made in sections I and 4 of Chapter  III  ofthe  Income  Tax Enquiry Report, 1936, to  the	practice  ofavoiding  taxation by means of nominal partnerships  betweenhusband and wife or parent and minor child or by the nominaltransfer  of  assets to a wife or minor child (or  to  an  "Association " consisting of husband and wife) when there  isno  substantial separation of the interests of the  assesseeand the wife or child.	These practices are reported to havebecome very widespread already, with considerable  detrimentto  the revenue, and there is little doubt that if they	 arenot  checked there will be progressive	deterioration.	 Theproposals in the Report regarding the aggregation(1) (1953) S.C.R. 1.	    (2) (1954) S.C.R. 587, 628.318of  the incomes of husband and wife go beyond the  immediatenecessities  of the case and to that extent  their  adoptionwould  involve	the admission of a new principle  which	 theGovernment of India do not desire to establish in advance ofthe  general public discussion of the Report which has	beenarranged;  and	the present Bill has been so drafted  as  todeal only with the abuses to which I have referred."It is clear from the above extracts that the evil which	 wassought	to  be	remedied  was the  one	resulting  from	 thewidespread  practice  of  husbands  entering  into   nominalpartnerships  with their wives and fathers  admitting  theirminor children to the benefits of the partnerships of  whichthey  were members.  This evil was sought to be remedied  bythe enactment of s. 16(3) in the Act.  If this background ofthe enactment of s. 16(3) is borne in mind, there is no roomfor any doubt that howsoever that mischief was sought to  beremedied  by  the amending Act, the only  intention  of	 theLegislature in doing so was to include the income derived bythe  wife or a minor child, in the computation of the  totalincome	of the male assessee, the husband or the father,  asthe case may be, for the purpose of assessment.	 If that wasthe  position, howsoever wide the words "any individual"  or"such  individual" as used in s. 16(3) and s.  16(3)(a)	 mayappear be so as to include within their connotation the maleas  well  as  the  female  of  the  species  taken  by	 thethemselves, these words in the context could only have	beenmeant as restricted to the male and not including the femaleof  the species.  If these words are used as referring	onlyto the male of the species the whole of the s. 16(3)(a)	 canbe  read  harmoniously	in the	manner	above  comprehendingwithin	its scope all the four cases specified	in  sub-cls.(i) to (iv) thereof and so also s. 16(3)(b).We		are,therefore,  of opinion that the words" any  individual"	 and"such individual" occurring in s.  16(3) and s. 16(3)(a)  ofthe Act are restricted in their connotation to mean only themale  of the species, and do not include the female  of	 thespecies,  even	though	by  a  disjunctive  reading  of	 theexpression   "the  wife"  or  "a  minor	 child"	  of   "suchindividual" in s. 16(3)(a)19and  the expression "by such individual" for the benefit  ofhis wife or a minor child or both" in s. 16(3)(b), it may bepossible  in the particular instances of the  mothers  beingconnected with the minor children in the manner suggested bythe   Revenue  to  include  the	 mothers  also	within	 theconnotation  of these words.  Such inclusion which  involvesdifferent  interpretations of the words "any individual"  or"such individual" in the different contexts could never havebeen  intended	by the Legislature and would  in  any  eventinvolve the addition of the words "as the case may be" whichaddition  is not normally permissible in the  interpretationof a statute.We  shall  now refer to the decisions of  the  several	HighCourts	in India bearing on the construction of s. 16(3)  ofthe Act.  The earliest decision is that of the High Court ofAllahabad in Shrimati Chanda Devi v. Commissioner of Income-tax,  U.P. (1).	 That decision emphasised that	the  sub-cl.(i)  of	 cl. (a) of sub-s. (3) of s. 16 made it	 clear	thatwhere  the husband was a partner the income of the wife,  byreason of her being a member of the firm, was to be computedin  the	 income of the husband, and if the  Legislature	 hadintended  that the word "individual" in sub-cl. (ii)  shouldmean only the father and not the mother there was no  reasonwhy they should not have used similar language as in sub-cl.(i)  and  said	"from  the admission of	 the  minor  to	 thebenefits  of partnership in a firm in which his father is  apartner."  Why the Legislature used a particular  expressionand why it did not use any expression which would have	beenclearer	 and  better expressive of its intention  is  reallydifficult  to  fathom.	 We  may  as  well  wonder  why	 theLegislature did not use the words "such individual" in	sub-cls.  (i)  and (iii), of s. 16(3)(a) in place of  the  words"her  husband"	or "the husband" when the intention  of	 theLegislature  would have been equally carried out by the	 useof those words.	 It may be that the draftsman considered theuse of the words "her husband" or "the husband" when he usedthe  same  in  juxtaposition  with the	words  "a  wife"  asappropriate  or	 more  elegant	and  therefore	ignored	 theobvious user of the words "such(1)  [1950] 18 I.T.R. 944.20individual"  which  would have been equally  appropriate  inthat  context.	It would have been better expressive of	 theintention  of  the Legislature, as we have  already  divinedabove  (viz.,  to use the words "any individual"  and  "suchindividual"  in	 s. 16(3) and 16(3)(a) respectively  in	 therestricted meaning of the male of the species), to have usedthe  words  "the  father"  in  place  of  the  words   "suchindividual" in sub-cls. (ii) and (iv) of s. 16(3)(a).  It ishowever	 difficult to fathom the mind of the draftsman	whenhe used one particular expression in preference to the otherand  not much help can be derived from the ratio adopted  bythe  learned  Judges of the High Court of Allahabad  in	 thedecision  just	referred  to.  It  is  also  significant  toobserve that the learned Judges considered that the languageof  the	 -section does not create any  real  difficulty	 andtherefore did not think it worth their while to refer to theIncome	Tax Enquiry Report, 1936, and the passage  therefromwhich  we have quoted above.  Suffice it to say that  we  donot concur with the reasoning adopted by the learned  Judgesof  the High Court of Allahabad and are of the opinion	thatthe  decision  just referred to in so far  as  it  militatesagainst the reasoning adopted by us herein is incorrect.The later case of Musta Quima Begum, In re(1) decided by thesame  High  Court merely follows the  judgment	in  ShrimatiChanda Devi's case (2) and is subject to the same  criticismas above.The  decision  of  the	High Court  of	Punjab	in  ShrimatiDamayanti  Sahni v. Commissioner of Incometax, Delhi (3)  isthe  one  under appeal before us in Civil Appeal No.  25  of1955.  The learned Judges there followed the decision of theHigh  Court of Allahabad in Shrimati Chanda Devi's case	 (2)and  answered the referred question in the affirmative.	  Itfollows	 from what we have said above that that decision  isalso incorrect and the referred question ought to have	beenanswered by them in the negative.The  latest  decision in this context is that  of  the	HighCourt of Madhya Pradesh in commissioner of(1)  [1953] 23 I.T.R. 345.(2)  [1950] 18 I.T.R. 944.(3)  [1953] 23 I.T.R. 41.21Income tax,Madhya Pradesh and Bhopal v. Smt.  Sodra Devi (1)which is the subject-matter of Civil Appeal No. 322 of	1955before	us.   The High Court there observed  that  the	word"individual"  as used in s. 16(3) of the Act  was  ambiguousand  referred to the above quoted passage from the  -InquiryCommittee's  Report, 1936, as also the statement of  objectsand  reasons  and  came	 to the	 conclusion  that  the	word"individual"  was restricted to the male of the species	 andit  was	 not  the intention of	the  Legislature  to  imposeadditional  tax	 on a mother assessee by  including  in	 herincome	the  income of her minor children arising  from	 thebenefits  of partnership of a firm in which the	 mother	 andthe  minors  were  partners.  We are  of  opinion  that	 thedecision reached by the learned judges of the High Court  ofMadhya	Pradesh	 in that case was correct and  the  referredquestion was rightly answered by them in the negative.The  result therefore is that Civil Appeal No. 322  of	1955will  be  dismissed with costs, and Civil Appeal No.  25  of1955 will be allowed with costs, the referred question beinganswered in the negative.S.   K.	 DAS  J.-The substantial question  which  falls	 fordecision in these two appeals is if the word "individual" insub-s.	 (3)  of  s.  16  of  the  Indian  Income-tax	Act,hereinafter referred to as the Act, includes also a  female,and  therefore	the income of the minor	 sons  which  arisesdirectly or indirectly from their admission to the  benefitsof  partnership in a firm of which their mother is a  memberis  to	be  included in computing the total  income  of	 themother	within the meaning of sub-s. (3), cl.  (a),  sub-cl.(ii),  of  s.  16.   The question  is  really  one  of	pureconstruction,  that is, construction of sub-s. (3) of s.  16of  the Act.  Nothing turns upon the facts of the case,	 andas  the	 material  facts have been clearly set	out  in	 thejudgment  just read by my learned brother Bhagwati J.  I  donot  think  that  any  useful  purpose	will  be  served  byrestating them.Therefore,  I proceed at once to a consideration  of  sub-s.(3) of s. 16 of the Act and state at the very(1)  [1955] 27 I.T.R. 9.22outset that, to my great regret, I have come to a conclusiondifferent  from	 that  of  my  learned	brethren.   I  shallpresently read the sub-section; but before I do so, it	willhelp  the  exposition which follows if I explain  in  a	 fewwords  the  standpoint	from which  I  have  approached	 thequestion.  Speaking generally, the expression "construction"includes  two things: first, the meaning of the words;	and,secondly,  their legal effect or the effect which is  to  begiven  to them by the courts.  As in the case of  documents,so in the case of statutes also, they should be construed ina manner which carries out the intention of the Legislature.It  may	 be  reasonably asked-how is the  intention  of	 theLegislature  to	 be  discovered?  The  answer  is  that	 theintention  must	 first	be gathered from the  words  of	 thestatute itself.	 If the words are unambiguous or plain, theywill  indicate	the  intention with which  the	statute	 waspassed and the object to be attained by it; in other  words,the intention is best declared by the words themselves,	 andthe  words  of a statute are to be  interpreted	 as  bearingtheir ordinary, natural meaning unless the context  requiresa  different meaning to be given to them.  If, however,	 thewords  are ambiguous, the policy of the legislation and	 thescope  and  object  of	the  statute,  where  these  can  bediscovered,  will show the intention, which may	 further  bebrought to light by applying the various well settled  rulesand presumptions of construction.  One such rule is that thestatute must be read as a whole and the construction made ofall the parts together.	 I am emphasising this aspect of thequestion  to  guard against any possible suggestion  that  Ihave  started  with  some a priori idea of  the	 meaning  orintention  behind  subs. (3) of s. 16 of the  Act  and	havetried  by construction to work that idea into the  words  ofthe  sub-section.  I have been conscious all through of	 thewarning	  given	  by  Lord  Halsbury,	in   the   followingobservations in Leader v. Duffey (1):"  All	these  refinements and nice  distinctions  of  wordsappear to me to be inconsistent with the modern view,  whichis I think in accordance with reason and(i)  (1888) 13 App.  Cas. 294, 301.23common sense, that, whatever the instrument, it must receivea  construction according to the plain meaning of the  wordsand sentences therein contained.  But I agree that you	mustlook at the whole instrument, and, inasmuch as there may  beinaccuracy   and  inconsistency,  you  must,  if  you	can,ascertain  what is the meaning of the instrument taken as  awhole  in order to give effect, if it be possible to do	 so,to the intention of the framer of it.  But it appears to  meto  be arguing in a vicious circle to begin by	assuming  anintention apart from the language of the instrument  itself,and  having  made  that fallacious assumption  to  bend	 thelanguage in favour of the presumption so made."Keeping	 that warning in mind, I shall first take the  wordsof  sub-s.  (3)	 of  s. 16 and see  if	they  are  plain  orunambiguous.   Alternatively,  I  shall	 also  consider	 theproper construction of sub-s. (3) of s. 16 on the assumptionthat  the  word	 "individual" used  in	the  sub-section  isambiguous  and should therefore be interpreted	consistentlywith the principles laid down in the locus classicus on	 thesubject,  namely, the celebrated Heydon's case (1)  reportedby  Lord Coke and decided by the Barons of the Exchequer  inthe sixteenth century.I shall now read sub-s. (3) of s. 16 of the Act:"  16. (3) In computing the total income of  any  individualfor the purpose of assessment, there shall be included-(a)  so much of the income of a wife or minor child of	suchindividual as arises directly or indirectly-(i)  from the membership of the wife in a firm of which	 herhusband is a partner;(ii)from  the  admission  of the minor to  the	benefits  ofpartnership in a firm of which such individual is a partner;(iii)from  assets transferred directly or indirectly to	 thewife   by   the	  husband  otherwise   than   for   adequateconsideration  or  in connection with an agreement  to	liveapart; or(1)  (1584) 3 Co. Rep. 7a,24(iv)from  assets transferred directly or indirectly  to	 theminor	child,	not  being  a  married	daughter,  by	suchindividual otherwise than for adequate consideration ; and(b)  so	 much of the income of any person or association  ofpersons	 as arises from asset,,; transferred otherwise	thanfor  adequate consideration to the person or association  bysuch individual for the benefit of his wife or a minor childor both." I have already stated that the sub-section must beread  as a whole and in the context of the other  provisionsof the Act, particularly s. 16 of which it is a part; it  isonly  then  that  we shall arrive  at  its  correct  meaningconsistent  with the other provisions of the Act.  The	word"individual"  used in sub-s. (3) of s. 16 occurs in  severalother provisions of the Act, e.g., s. 3, s. 4A, s. 48 and s.55.  It is necessary to quote s. 3 in extensor That  sectionis in these terms:"  Where  any Central Act enacts that  income-tax  shall  becharged for any year at any rate or rates, tax at that	rateor those rates shall be charged for that year in  accordancewith,  and subject to the provisions of this Act in  respectof   the  total	 income	 of  the  previous  year  of   everyindividual,  Hindu  undivided  family,	company	 and   localauthority,  and	 of  every firm	 and  other  association  ofpersons	 or the partners of the firm or the members  of	 theassociation individually."It  is	not disputed before us that the word  "individual  "occurring  in ss. 3, 4A, 48 and 55 means either a male or  afemale;	 nor has it been disputed before us that,  accordingto  the	 ordinary accepted meaning of the word, it  means  asingle	human being as opposed to "society," "family"  etc.,and that a single human being may be of either sex.  Learnedcounsel appearing for the assessees in the two appeals	havepointed out, however, that the word "individual" has not thesame  width of meaning in sub-s. (3) of s. 16 as it  has  inthe  other  provisions;	 for  example, in  s.  3,  the	word"individual" has been held to include a Corporation  createdby a statute, e.g., a University or a Bar25Council or the trustees of a baronetcy trust incorporated bya  Baronetcy Act etc; whereas sub-s. (3) of s. 16  makes  itquite  clear  that the word " individual "  there  does	 notinclude	 a Corporation created by a statute. This indeed  iscorrect.   But	the question before us is  whether,  in	 itscontext,  sub-s. (3) of s. 16 imposes a further	 restrictionon the word "individual", confining it to a male  individualonly.	The  critical question before us is whether  such  afurther	 restriction  is imposed on  the  word	"individual"either	by the express words used in the sub-section  or  bynecessary  implication	from  the  clauses  and	 sub-clausesthereof. It is said to be a presumption in construction thatthe  same  words are used in the same meaning  in  the	samestatute and particularly in the same section or sub-section.The presumption is, however, of the slightest, and there aremany  instances	 where	the  application  of  this  rule  orpresumption is impossible.  The same words may often receivea  different interpretation in different parts of  the	sameAct,   for  words  used	 with  reference  to  one   set	  ofcircumstances "may convey an intention quite different	fromwhat  the  selfsame  set of words  used	 with  reference  toanother set of circumstances would or might have  produced."(Edinburgh  Street  Tramways Co. v. Torbain  (1),  per	LordBlackburn).   The classic example of the same word having  asomewhat  different meaning in the same section is  providedby  Offences  against the Person Act, 1861, s. 57  of  whichdeals  with  bigamy and enacts: "Whosoever,  being  married,shall  marry any other person during the life of the  formerhusband or wife... ......... Shall be guilty of felony."  Itis  obvious that the word "marry" is used in  two  differentsenses	in  the	 same section.	 There	is  another  classicexample in Art. 31 of our Constitution where the word  "law"in  el. (3) of the said Article has been used  in  differentsenses.	 This is referred to in a decision of this Court  inThe State of Bihar v. Maharajadhiraja Sir Kameshwar Singh ofDarbhanga (2).(1)  (1877) 3 App.  Cas. 58, 68.  (2) 1952 S.C.R. 889,	908,909.26The  word  "individual" is not defined in the Act,  but	 themeaning	 of the word in ss. 3, 4A, 48 and 55  is  reasonablyclear.	The word "assessee" is defined in cl. (2) of s. 2 ofthe Act, as meaning a person by whom income-tax or any othersum  of	 money (which would include  super-tax,	 penalty  orinterest) is payable under the Act.  It also includes  everyperson	in respect of whom any proceeding under the  Act  istaken for the assessment (a) of his income, (b) of his	lossor  (c)	 of  the  amount of refund due	to  him.   Thus	 thedefinition covers two categories: first, persons by whom anytax,  penalty or interest is payable under the Act,  whetherany proceeding under the Act has been actually taken againstthem  or not; and secondly, persons against whom any of	 theproceedings specified in this clause has been taken, whetherhe is or is not liable to pay any tax, penalty or  interest.'A  person',  under  s. 3(42) of the  General  Clauses	Act,includes any company or association or. body of individuals,whether	 incorporated  or  not; and under  cl.	(9)  of	 thesection	 'a person' also includes a Hindu  undivided  familyand  a	local authority.  Thus, we have	 six  categories  ofassessees  referred to in s. 3-(a) the individual,  (b)	 theHindu  undivided  family, (c) the local authority,  (d)	 thecompany, (e) the firm and (f) other association of  persons.Read  in  the  context	of  s.	3  of  the  Act,  the	word"individual"  means, in the other sections, one of  the	 sixcategories  of	assessees  referred to in  s.  3.  The	samecategory is also referred to in sub-s. (3) of s. 16, subjectonly  to  this restriction that in the context of  the	sub-section,   the	 word  "individual"  does  not	 include   aCorporation etc.We  now turn to the critical question before us-is  there  afurther	 restriction in the sub-section confining  the	word"individual"  to a male individual only?  My answer is	thatthere  is  nothing in the context of s. 16 or  of  the	sub-section	 which	confines  the word "individual"	 to  a	maleindividual  only.  Section 16 deals with the computation  oftotal  income and provides what sums are to be	included  orexcluded  in  determining the total income.  The  effect  ofincluding exempted income in the assessee's total income is27mainly	two-fold: first, the tax payable by the assessee  isdetermined with reference to the total income and  thereforeexempted income which is included in the total income  wouldaffect the rate of tax applicable to the chargeable  portionof the total income; secondly, in several cases reliefs	 aregiven  or  calculations	 made with reference  to  the  totalincome.	  Sub-section  (3) of s. 16 appears ex facie  to  bedirected towards preventing an individual's attempt to avoidor reduce the incidence of tax by transferring the assets tohis wife or a minor child or admitting the wife as a partneror admitting a minor child to the benefits of partnership ina firm in which such individual is a partner.  I agree	thatthe  sub-section  creates,  to some  extent,  an  artificialliability to tax by including the income of A in the  incomeof B, and must therefore be strictly construed; that  merelymeans  that the words of the subsection must be given  theirstrictly natural meaning, and there should be no attempt  atartificial stretching one way or the other.What then is the proper construction of the subsection ?  Itnaturally falls into three interconnected parts.  The  firstpart controls both cl. (a) and cl. (b), and states that	 "incomputing the total income of any individual for the purposeof assessment, there shall be included so much of the incomeetc." as is specified in cls. (a) and (b).  The second	partis  cl.	 ('a) itself which starts with an  opening  sentencethat "so much of the income of a wife or minor child of suchindividual  as	arises	directly or  indirectly"  from	fourspecific cases shall be included in the total income of	 theindividual,  and then the cases are enumerated in four	sub-clauses numbered (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv).  Then, comes thethird  part  which deals with cl. (b).	I have	divided	 thesub-section into its three natural parts, but I must make itclear that all the three parts must be construed together asthey  are interconnected and interdependent.  In  the  firstpart,  there is no difficulty whatsoever, in my opinion,  ingiving	the word "individual" its natural meaning, that	 is,that the word means either a male or a female.	The  openingsentence of cl. (a) contains the expression "so much of	 theincome of a28wife  or minor child of such individual".  Does the  use  ofthe  word  "individual" in the opening sentence of  cl.	 (a)give  rise to any ambiguity or difficulty?  I do  not  thinkthat it does.  It is quite obvious that a female  individualcannot have a wife, but she can have a minor child whereas amale  individual can have a wife, minor child or  both.	  Ithas been argued that el. (a) must be interpreted noscitur  asociis,	 and  as the expression "a wife or minor  child"  iscapable of meaning only when used in connection with a	maleindividual, the whole sub-section must be confined to a maleindividual.   I am unable to accede to this  argument.	 Thecollocation  or	 association of the words "a wife  or  minorchild" in connection with the words "such individual" in theopening	 sentence of cl. (a) does not necessarily mean	thatthe  individual contemplated is a male individual  only.   Iagree  that the -word "or" in between the words	 "wife"	 and"minor child" must be there, even when the individual talkedof  is	a  male only; in other words, the use  of  the	dis-junctive  word "or" does not necessarily clinch	 the  issue.But I do not see any real difficulty in reading the  openingsentence  of  el. (a) distributively so as to  mean  a	maleindividual  when  the wife is being talked of and  either  amale or a female individual when a minor child is talked  ofI do not think that such a construction does any violence tothe  words  used; on the contrary, in my opinion,  it  giveseffect to the plain meaning of the word "individual".Turning	 now to the sub-clauses numbered (i) to (iv),  therecan be no doubt from the phraseology used that sub-cls.	 (i)and (iii) refer only to a male individual, because a  femaleindividual  cannot  have  a wife.  It  is  worthy  of  note,however-and  this is very important -that sub-cls. (ii)	 and(iv) make it equally clear that they are not confined to themale individual only in the manner in which sub-cls. (i) and(iii)  are so confined.	 In sub-cls. (i) and (iii) the	word"individual"  is  not  used, and the  words  used  are	"herhusband"  and "the husband".  In sub-cls. (ii) and (iv)	 thewords  used are "such individual".  Why did the	 Legislaturemake  this difference in phraseology?  If the intention	 wasto29confine	 the entire sub-section to a male  individual  only,nothing	 could	have been easier than to  qualify  the	word"individual"  by the adjective "male" in the first  part  ofthe  sub-section  which controls both clauses (a)  and	(b);alternatively, in sub-cls. (ii) and (iv) it would have	beeneasy to use the word "father" instead of "such	individual".It  is	true  that  a change of	 language  is  some,  thoughpossibly slight, indication of a change of intention.  I  amunable,	 however, to accept the argument advanced before  usthat  the  phraseology employed in sub-cls.  (i)  and  (iii)different  as it is from that employed in sub-cls. (ii)	 and(iv)  can  be  accounted for on the ground  of	elegance  orfelicity  of  expression.   It	seems  to  me  that  if	 theintention  was	to confine the word "individual" to  a	maleindividual only, elegance and clarity both required that theword  "individual"  should  be qualified  by  the  adjective"male", and the word "father" should have been used in	sub-cls. (ii) and (iv).  I am aware that a draftsman often	usesdifferent words merely to avoid repetition.  I am also awarethat  it  is  dangerous	 to  suppose  that  the	 Legislatureforesees  every	 possible  result that may  ensue  from	 the"unguarded  use of a single word, or that the language	usedin  statutes  is  so precisely accurate that  you  can	pickout......  this and that expression and	 skilfully,  piecingthem  together,	 lay  a	 safe  foundation  for	some  remoteinference."  (as  per  Lord  Loreburn,	L.C.,  in  Nairn  v.University  of	St.  Andrews and Others (1).   But  what  isnoteworthy  in	the present case is that the  difference  inphraseology  between sub-cls. (i) and (iii) on the one	sideand sub-cls. (ii) and (iv) on the other, is so striking thatthe  conclusion appears to me to be reasonably plain; it  isnot  really a case of the unguarded use of a single word  orpicking	 out  an  expression here  or  picking	out  anotherexpression   there  in	order  to  piece  out  some   remoteinference.  The striking difference in phraseology hits,  asit  were,  one	in the face when one  reads  the  four	sub-clauses.   It seems to me that the meaning, is	very  clear.In  the	 opening part of el. (a), the word  "individual"  isused  to  mean a male or a female; two of  the	sub-clauses,however, are confined(1)  [1909] A.C. 147, 161.30to the male only and therefore the word "husband" is used injuxtaposition  to  the word "wife".  In the other  two	sub-clauses, however, the word "individual " is used in order tomake  it  clear	 that they refer either to a male  or  to  afemale	individual.   I	 do  not  see  any  incongruity	  ordisharmony  in the enumeration of the four sub-clauses,	 nordo I appreciate the argument urged before us that the word "individual  ",	on  the construction adopted by	 me,  has  adifferent meaning in two of the four sub-clauses of cl. (a).The  word  "individual" has and retains	 the  same  meaning,namely	a male or a female, all throughout  the	 subsection.All  that  happens is that in two of the subclauses  of	 cl.(a),  when  the	 Legislature intends  that  they  should  beconfined  to a male individual only, the word  "husband"  isused  to make the intention clear.  On the  same  reasoning,when  the Legislature intends in two other sub-clauses	thatthey  should apply to either a male or a female, the word  "individual " is used to include either of them.	 I am unableto accept the contention that such an interpretation offendsagainst the rule of harmonious construction.  So far as	 el.(b) of the sub-section is concerned, the word " individual "is again used and that again relates to a male or a  female.The  last part of the clause reads "by such  individual	 forthe  benefit  of his wife or a minor child  or	both."	Hereagain  the sentence has to be read  distributively-that	 is,when  the  wife is talked of, the individual can only  be  amale; when a minor child is talked of, the individual can bea  male	 or  a female; when both wife and  minor  child	 aretalked	of, the individual can again be a male only.   Therewas  some argument before us with regard to the use  of	 theindefinite article "a" before the words "minor child" and itwas  submitted by the learned Solicitor-General that if	 theLegislature intended to confine cl. (b) to a male individualonly,  it could have easily dropped the	 indefinite  articleand  used  the word "his" before the  words  "minor  child".Personally, I do not attach much significance to the use  ofthe indefinite article "a".  It is to be noted that no	suchindefinite article is used before the words "minor child" inthe opening31sentence of cl. (a); but I do not see any compelling reasonswhy  the natural meaning of the word " individual  "  shouldnot  be	 given	to it in el. (a) and cl.  (b)  of  the	sub-section.   Such	 meaning  can be easily given  to  both	 theclauses	 if they are read distributively, and  such  readingdoes  not,  in my opinion, do any violence to  the  languageused.On  a plain reading of the sub-section, I have come  to	 theconclusion  that there really is no ambiguity and  the	word"individual"  has  been	 used  in  the	sub-section  in	 itsordinary  accepted connotation, that is, either a male or  afemale individual; two of the sub-clauses of cl. (a) are  nodoubt  confined to a male individual and that has been	madeclear  by  the	use of the words  "   wife"  and  "husband",instead of the words "such individual ".Assuming, however, that there is some ambiguity in the	sub-section by reason of (1) the use of the phraseology in	sub-cls.  (i)  and	(iii) of cl. (a), and  (2)  of	the  openingsentence of cl. (a) which controls all the four	 sub-clausesof  that  clause,  what then is the  position  ?   The	fourprinciples  laid  down	in  Heydon's  case  have  been	thussummarised:" That for the sure and true interpretation of all  statutesin  general  (be they penal or	beneficial,  restrictive  orenlarging of the common law) four things are to be discernedand  considered:  (1)  what was the common  law	 before	 thepassing of the Act; (2) what was the mischief and defect forwhich  the common law did not provide; (3) what	 remedy	 theParliament  hath resolved and appointed to cure the  diseaseof the commonwealth; (4) the true reason of the remedy.	 Andthen  the  office  all the Judges is  always  to  make	suchconstruction as shall suppress the mischief and advance	 theremedy,	 and to suppress subtle inventions and evasions	 forthe continuance of the mischief and pro privato commedo, andto  add force and life to the cure and remedy  according  tothe true intent of the makers of the Act pro bono publico."Let  me	 now apply these principles in the  construction  ofsub-s. (3) of S. 16 of the Act,32The  subjection	 was  introduced in  1937,  and	 before	 theenactment of the sub-section, there was no provision for theinclusion  of the income of a wife or a, minor child in	 thecomputation  of	 the  total income of  an  individual.	 TheIncome Tax Enquiry Report, 1936, referred to the  widespreadevil  of  the evasion of tax by the severance of  the  jointstatus	amongst	 members  of a	joint  and  undivided  Hindufamily.	 The Report said :"  Our	attention  has been drawn to  the  extent  to  whichtaxation is avoided by nominal partnerships between  husbandand wife and minor children.  In some parts of the  country,avoidance  of  taxation	 by this  means	 has  attained	veryserious	 dimensions.  The obvious remedy for this  state  ofaffairs	 so  far as husband and wife are  concerned  is	 theaggregation  for  assessment of their incomes,	but  such  acourse would involve aggregation in a quite different  classof  case, i.e., where the wife's income arises from  sourcesquite unconnected with the husbandWe  recommend, therefore, that the incomes of a wife  shouldbe deemed to be, for Income-tax purposes, the income of	 herhusband,  but that where the income of the wife	 is  derivedfrom  her  personal exertions and is  unconnected  with	 anybusiness  of  her  husband, her	 income	 from  her  personalexertions up to a certain limit, say Rs. 500, should not  beso included................................(b)Income  of  minor children.-There is also a	growing	 andserious tendency to avoid taxation by the admission of minorchildren  to  the benefits of partnership  in  the  father'sbusiness.   Moreover,  the admission is, as a  rule,  merelynominal, but being supported by entries in the firm's books,the Income-tax Officer is rarely in a position to prove thatthe alleged participation in the benefits of partnership  isunreal. ........................................We suggest that the income of a minor should be deemed to bethe income of the father (i) if it arises			     33from the benefits of partnership in a business in which	 thefather is a partner or (ii) if, being the income of a  minorother  than  a married daughter, it is derived	from  assetstransferred  directly or indirectly to the minor by  his  orher  father  or mother, (iii) if it is derived	from  assetsapportioned  to	 him in the partition of a  Hindu  UndividedFamily."It is clear, however, that the report is of very little helpin   the  construction	of  the	 sub-section,  because	 theLegislature did not accept in full the recommendations	madein  the Report.	 Two of the rules in Heydon's case lay	down(1)  that we must find what was the mischief or	 defect	 forwhich  the earlier law did not provide and (2)	what  remedythe  Parliament	 has  resolved and  appointed  to  cure	 themischief  or defect.  In the case under	 our  consideration,the interpretation which has been put by me on sub-s. (3) ofs.  16 does not militate against any of the aforesaid  rulesof Heydon's case.  The interpretation put by me	 undoubtedlyremedies  the mischief or defect for which the	earlier	 lawdid not provide.  The only serious criticism made by learnedcounsel	 for  the assessees against that  interpretation  Isthat the remedy not merely cures the mischief for which	 theearlier	 law did not provide, but it goes a  little  furtherand  attacks the evil even when the evil is committed  by  afemale	individual,  though the Income	Tax  Enquiry  Report(except in one part) did not in specific terms refer to suchan evil committed by a female individual.  I can see nothingin  the	 rules laid down in' Heydon's case  which  militatesagainst the view taken by me.  There is no presumption that,while  remedying an evil, the Legislature may not  cast	 itsnet  very wide so as to remedy the evil in all its  aspects.Let  me again refer to sub-cls. (i) and (ii) of cl.  (a)  ofsub-s.	(3) of s. 16 of the Act.  Those two sub-clauses	 areabsolute  and  unqualified in terms and not subject  to	 anyexception.  If the wife owns and manages a business and	 shetakes her husband into partnership with her in the business,the  result  of	 the partnership would be  that	 the  wife'sincome	from the business would be no longer taxable in	 herhands but would be included in the total income of her534husband	 under the sub-section, even though the husband	 maybe   a	dormant	 partner.   This  clearly  shows  that	 theLegislature was not confining itself to the  recommendationsmade  in  the  Income Tax Enquiry Report.   What  is  to  beincluded in the total income of an individual under cl.	 (a)is  the income of a wife or minor child arising directly  orindirectly "from the membership of the wife" in the firm  or"from  the  admission  of  the	minor  to  the	benefits  ofpartnership"  in  the  firm of which  the  individual  is  apartner.  The clause covers the share of the profits of	 thefirm  received by the wife in her capacity- as a partner  orby the minor child in his or her capacity as one admitted tothe  benefits of partnership.  But the income received	fromthe  firm  by the wife or the minor child  under  any  othercontract  with the firm or in any other capacity,  does	 notfall within the clause and is not included in the  husband'sor parent's total income.From what is stated above, it is clear that the	 Legislaturedid   not   confine  itself  strictly  or  solely   to	 therecommendations made by the Income Tax Enquiry Committee butprovided for all such aspects of the evil or mischief as  itthought	 fit to remedy by the Indian Income-tax	 (Amendment)Act,  1937 (Act IV of 1937).  In these circumstances,  I  donot  think that the recommendations made by  the  Income-taxEnquiry Committee can be relied upon to restrict the meaningof the word "individual" used in sub-s. (3) of s. 16 of	 theAct. , As to the Statement of Objects and Reasons which	 ledto the passing of Act IV of 1-937 and which has been set outin  the judgment of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh,  I  donot think that the Statement can be referred to as an aid toconstruction  for  ascertaining	 the  meaning  of  the	word"individual"  used  in	the  sub-section.   Even  if  it  isreferred  to  "for the limited purpose of  ascertaining	 theconditions prevailing at the time which actuated the sponsorof the Bill to introduce the same and the extent and urgencyof the evil which he sought to remedy", the use of the	word"Parent" in the Statement of Objects and Reasons shows	thatthe  evil was not confined to the male individual only,	 andthe sponsor of the Bill was aware of			     35it.  The Statement reads: "Sec. 16(3) was thus	designed  tobring  within  the ambit of taxation incomes  of  wives	 andminor  children	 as  income  of	 husband  or  parent,  whichotherwise  would  escape the whole burden  of  taxation."  Iemphasise the use of the word "parent" which would show thatthe evil contemplated was an evil which was not confined  tothe "father" only but included the mother as well.My  conclusion	therefore is that there is  nothing  in	 thepolicy	of the legislation and the scope and object  of	 thestatute which compels one to cut down the natural meaning ofthe word "individual" used in sub-s. (3) of s. 16 of the Actso as to confine it to a male individual alone.I now turn to such authorities as have been cited before us.There  has been a difference of opinion in the	High  Courtswith regard to the interpretation of sub-s. (3) of s. 16  ofthe Act.  In Shrimati Chanda Devi v. Commissioner of Income-tax  (1), the Allahabad High Court has taken the  view	thatthe minor's income which arises directly or indirectly	fromthe admission of the minor to the benefits of partnership ina firm of which the, mother is a partner, can be included inthe mother's assessable income under s. 16(3)(a)(ii) of	 theAct.  The Allahabad High Court proceeded on the footing thatthe  language  of the sub-section. did not create  any	realdifficulty and it was not open to it to take the help of theIncome-tax Enquiry Report.  I have considered this case fromboth  the  points  of view, and have  arrived  at  the	sameconclusion at which the Allahabad High Court arrived.  It isnot  necessary	to mention the other reasons  given  by	 theAllahabad High Court, because they have already been  statedby me in an earlier part of this judgment.  This decision ofthe  Allahabad	High Court was followed by the	Punjab	HighCourt  in  Commissioner	 of Income-tax,	 Delhi	v.  ShrimatiDamayanti  Sahni(2), which has given rise to one of the	 twoappeals before us.  The Punjab High Court gave no additionalreason	except to state that in cl. (a) of sub-s. (3) of  s.16, the word "wife" and the(1) (1950) 10 I.T.R. 944.		  (2) (1953) 23 I.T.R. 41.36words "minor child" were used disjunctively.  I have alreadystated that the use of the disjunctive "or" is not decisive;but  there is no real difficulty in reading clauses (a)	 and(b)  distributively.  The Madhya Pradesh High Court  took  adifferent  view	 in Sahodradevi N. Daga v.  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax  (1),  which has given rise to the  other  appealbefore us.  In my view, the learned Judges in that case	 didnot  attach sufficient importance to sub-cls. (ii) and	(iv)of  cl.	 (a).	If I may say so	 with  great  respect,	theyconfined their attention primarily to sub-cls. (i) and (iii)of  el. (a) and to cl. (b), and from those  provisions	theyinferred  that	the  intention	was  to	 confine  the	word"individual" to a male individual.  I venture to think	thatall  the three parts of the sub-section, including the	foursub-clauses  of cl. (a), must be read together in  order  tounderstand  the true meaning and effect of the	sub-section.The  learned Judges further seemed to think that the use  ofthe  words "such individual" in sub-cl. (ii) of el. (a)	 wasdue to inadvertence.  I am unable to agree.  I have  alreadypointed	 out that the phraseology in sub-cls. (i) and  (iii)of  cl. (a) is so strikingly different from the	 phraseologyused  in  sub-cls.  (ii)  and (iv) that	 only  one  and	 onereasonable  conclusion can be drawn, namely, that  the	word"individual" has been used in its accepted connotation,	 andwhen  the Legislature wanted to confine the operation  of  asub-clause  to	the male individual only, it used  the	word"wife" and "husband"; where, however, the Legislature wantedto  refer  to either a male or a female, it  used  the	word"individual"  which,  in  its  ordinary	 connotation,  meanseither a male or a female.For the reasons given above, I agree with the view expressedby  the	 Allahabad  and the Punjab High Courts	and  do	 notaccept	the interpretation given by the Madhya Pradesh	HighCourt.	 In my opinion, the question should be	answered  inthe  way the Allahabad and the Punjab High  Courts  answeredit;  therefore,	 Civil	Appeal No. 322	of  1955  should  beallowed with costs and Civil Appeal No. 25 of 1955 should bedismissed with costs.(1)  (1955) 27 I.T.R. 9.37By  COURT: In accordance with the Judgment of  the  majorityCivil  Appeal  No. 322 of 1955 is dismissed with  costs	 andCivil  Appeal  No.  25 of 1955 is allowed  with	 costs,	 thereferred question being answered in the negative.