PETITIONER:THE CENTRAL INDIA SPINNING ANDWEAVING AND MANUFACTURING COMP	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE MUNICIPAL COMMITTEE, WARDHADATE OF JUDGMENT:18/12/1957BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1958 AIR  341		  1958 SCR 1102ACT:   Terminal  tax-Goods in transit passing through  Municipallimits-If  can	be taxed-Imported into	and  exported  from-Connotation of-C.  P. & Berar Municipalities Act, 1922 (C.P.11 Of 1922), s. 66(1)(0).HEADNOTE:   Section  66(1)(0) of the C. P. and  Berar  MunicipalitiesAct,  1922,  empowered	the  municipalities  to	 impose	  "aterminal  tax on goods or animals imported into or  exportedfrom  the limits of a municipality".  The respondent  framedrules  for  the imposition of terminal tax.   The  appellanttransported  bales of cotton from Yeotmal to Nagpur by	roadand  the  vehicles  carrying the goods	passed	through	 thelimits	of respondent municipality.  The goods were  neitherunloaded  nor  reloaded at Wardha bat  were  merely  carriedacross through the municipal area.  The respondent collectedterminal  tax  on these goods on the ground that  they	wereexported by the appellant from the limits of the  respondentmunicipality.	The appellant disputed his liability to	 payterminal tax, and claimed a refund :   Held,  that	the  goods which were in  transit  and	weremerely	carried across the limits of the  municipality	werenot liable to terminal tax.  Terminal tax on goods  importedinto or exported			    1103from  the limits of a municipality was payable on  goods  ontheir	journey	 ending	 within	 the  municipal	 limits	  orcommencing therefrom and not where the goods were merely  intransit	 and  had their terminus  elsewhere.   Terminal	 taxleviable  under	 s.  66(1)(o) must have	 reference  to	someactivity  within the municipal area i.e., the entry for	 thepurpose of remaining within that area or the commencement ofthe journey from that area.    The	 words "imported into" do not merely mean  "bringinginto"but  comprise  something more i.e.,  incorporating	 andmixing up of   the  goods with the mass of the	property  inthe local area. Similarly, the words "exported from" do	 notmerely	indicate,  "taking out" but have  reference  to	 thetaking out of goods which' had become part and parcel of themass of the property of the local area and will not apply togoods in transit i.e. brought into the area for the  purposeof being transported out of it.JUDGMENT:   CIVIL  APPELLATE  JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.  119  of1953.   Appeal  by special leave from the order  dated  September11,  1950, of the Nagpur High Court in	Miscellaneous  CivilCase No. 77 of 1946.   C.K.	 Daphtary,  Solicitor-General of India and  M.S.  K.Sastri, for the appellants.   A.V. Vishwanatha Sastri, G. J. Ghate and Naunit Lal,	 forthe respondent.   1957.  December 18.	The following Judgment of the  Courtwas delivered by   KAPUR  J.-This  is an appeal by Special Leave  against  aJudgment and order of the High Court of Judicature at Nagpurdated February 14, 1950 and the question for decision  turnsupon  the construction of s. 66(1)(0) of the C. P.  &  BerarMunicipalities	Act (Act II of 1922) which in this  judgmentwill be termed the Act.   A short recital of the facts of the case will suffice forits  decision.	 The appellant is a company  which  has	 itsspinning  and  weaving mills at	 Yeotmal.   The	 appellant'sbales  of cotton are transported from Yeotmal to  Nagpur  byroad  and vehicles carrying them pass through the limits  ofWardha	Municipality.	The  goods  being  in  transit,	 thevehicles  carrying them do no more than use the	 road  whichtraverses  the	municipal limits of Wardha and is  a  P.W.D.road.  The goods are neither unloaded nor reloaded at1104Wardha	but are merely carried across through the  municipalarea.	The Municipal Committee purporting to act  under  s.66(1)(0)  of the Act and r. I of the rules  made  thereundercollected  Rs.	240 as terminal tax on these  goods  on	 theground	that they were ex ported by the appellant  from	 thelimits	of  the	 Municipality  of  Wardha.   The   appellantthereupon  claimed a refund of this sum.  On refusal by	 theMunicipality  the  appellant took an appeal  to	 the  DeputyCommissioner, Wardha which was sent for disposal to the Sub-Divisional  Officer,  who, on March 11, 1946,  referred	 thefollowing  two	questions under s. 83(2) of the Act  to	 theHigh Court for its opinion:   (1)Whether  goods  passing through the limits  of  WardhaMunicipality  by  road	despatched  from  Yeotmal  to  theirdestination at Nagpur without being unloaded or reloaded  atWardha are liable for an export terminal tax ?   (2)Whether  the  respondent Municipal  Committee  is	 notliable to refund the export terminal tax collect-ed on	suchgoods ?   The	reference in the first instance came up for  hearingbefore	Sheode,	 J., who referred the matter to	 a  DivisionBench  and the Division Bench in turn referred it to a	FullBench.	 The  High  Court after referring  to  a  number  ofdecided	 cases	was  of the opinion that the  tax  had	beenvalidly imposed and the appellant was therefore not entitledto a refund.   The	powers	of the Municipality to	impose,	 assess	 andcollect	 taxes	are set out in chapter 9 of the Act  and  s.66(1) enumerates the taxes which may be imposed.  Clause (d)of  sub-section (1) deals, with tolls; cl. (e)	with  octroiand cl. (o) with terminal tax.	The sub-section provides:   "  66(1) A committee may, from time to time, and  subjectto the provisions of this Chapter, impose in the whole or inany part of the municipality any of the following taxes	 forthe purposes of this Act, namely:-   (a)	a  tax payable by the owners of buildings  or  landssituate within the limits of the municipality,			    1105with reference to the gross annual letting value of thebuildings or lands;   (b)	  a tax on persons exercising any profession or art,or  carrying on any trade or calling, within the  limits  ofthe municipality;   (c)	  a  tax,  payable  by the owner,  on  all  or	any(vehicles  or  animals used for riding, driving,	 draught  orburden, or on dogs, where such vehicles, animals or dogs arekept within the limits of the municipality ;   (d)	  a  toll on vehicles and animals used as  aforesaidentering the limits of the municipality, and on boats mooredwithin those limits:   Provided  that  a  toll under this clause  shall  not  bepayable on any vehicle or animal on which a tax under clause(c) has been imposed.   (e)	  an  octroi on animals or goods brought within	 thelimits	of  the municipality for sale,	consumption  or	 usewithin those limits;   (f)market  dues  on persons exposing goods  for  sale  inmarket or in any place belonging to or under the control  ofthe Government or of the committee ;   (g)	  fees on the registration of cattle sold within thelimits of the municipality;   (h)	  a  latrine  or  conservancy  tax  payable  by	 theoccupier  (or  owner)  upon  private  latrines,	 privies  orcesspools,  or	upon  premises	or  compounds  cleansed	  bymunicipal agency;   (j)	  a  tax  for the construction	and  maintenance  ofpublic latrines;   (k)	  a  water-rate,  where	 water is  supplied  by	 thecommittee ;   (l)	  a  lighting  rate  where the	lighting  of  publicstreets,places and buildings is undertaken by the  committee;   (m)	  a  drainage  tax, where a system of  drainage	 hasbeen introduced;   (n)	  a  tax  payable by the occupiers of  buildings  orlands  within the limits of the municipality,  according  totheir circumstances and property within those imits;1106    (o)	  a  terminal tax on goods or animals imported	intoor exported from the limits of a municipality :     Provided  that a terminal tax under this clause and  anoctroi	under  clause  (e)  shall not be  in  force  in	 anymunicipality at the same time; and   (p) a tax on-   (i)	  persons  travelling  by  railway  to	or  from   amunicipality to which pilgrims resort, or   (ii)	  pilgrims visiting a shrine within the limits 'of amunicipalityRule I of the Terminal Tax Rules made under the Act  relatesto exports and r. 2 to imports.	 They provide:    (1)	  On the following goods exported by rail or road  aterminal tax shall be levied at the rate noted againsteach ;at 2 as. per maund of 40 seers; Cotton..................    (2)	  On the following goods imported by rail or road  aterminal tax shall be levied at the rate noted against each.  Then follows the schedule.  The High Court was of the opinion that "The words ' export'  and	I import ' have no special meaning.  They  bear	 theordinary  dictionary meaning, which has been the  foundationfor  the decisions to which I have referred in	the  openingportion of my opinion.	These words mean only 'taking out ofand bringing into '. "  The appellant's contention is that the words'imported intoor  exported from' do not merely mean 'to bring into' or  tocarry  out  of or away from but also have reference  to	 andimply the termination or the commencement of the journey  ofthe goods sought to be taxed and therefore goods in  transitwhich  are  transported	 across the limits  of	a  MunicipalCommittee are neither imported into the municipal limits norexported  therefrom.  It is also contended that even if	 thewords  ,imported into or exported from' are used  merely  tomean  "to bring into" or "to carry out of or away from"	 thequalifying of the tax by the adjective "terminal"			    1107is  indicative of the terminus ad quem or terminus a quo  ofthe journey of the goods and excludes the goods in  transit.The  respondent	 on the other hand submits that the  tax  isleviable merely on the entry of the goods into the municipallimits or on their exit there. from and the word  "terminal"has reference to the termini of the jurisdictional limits ofthe  municipality and not to the journey of the goods.	 Theefficacy   of  the  relative  contentions  of  the   partiestherefore requires the determination of the construction  tobe  placed  on	the  really important  words  of  which	 are"terminal  tax", "imported into or exported from" and "	 thelimits	of the Municipality".  In construing these words  ofthe  statute if there are two possible interpretations	theneffect	is to be given to the one that favours	the  citizenand not the one that imposes a burden on him.  'Import'  is derived from the Latin word  importare  whichmeans'to  bring	 in'  and  'export'  from  the	Latin	wordexportare  which means to carry out but these words are	 notto   be	  interpreted  only  according	to   their   literalderivations.	Lexico-logically  they	do  not	  have	 anyreference  to goods in'transit'a word derived from  transirebearing a meaning similar to transport, i.e., to go  across.The dictionary meaning of the words 'import' and 'export' isnot  restricted to their derivative meaning but	 bear  otherconnotations  also.   According to  Webster's  InternationalDictionary  the	 word  "import" means to  bring	 in  from  aforeign	 or  external  source; to  introduce  from  without;especially  to bring (wares or merchandise) into a place  orcountry	 from  a  foreign country  in  the  transactions  ofcommerce;  opposed to export.  Similarly "export"  accordingto Webster's International Dictionary means "to carry  away;to  remove;  to carry or send abroad especially	 to  foreigncountries  as  merchandise  or commodities  in	the  way  ofcommerce;  the opposite of import ". The  Oxford  Dictionarygives a similar meaning to both these words.   The	word  "transit" in the Oxford Dictionary  means	 theaction or fact of passing across or through; passage1411108or  journey from one place or point to another; the  passageor carriage of persons or goods from one place to another  ;it  also  means	 to pass across or  through  (something)  totraverse, to cross.  Even according to the ordinary  meaningof  the words which is relied upon by the respondent,  goodswhich are in transit or are being transported can hardly  becalled	goods 'imported into or exported from' because	theyare neither being exported nor imported but are merely goodscarried across a particular stretch of territory or across aparticular  area  with the object of  being  transported  totheir  ultimate	 destination which in the instant  case	 wasNagpur.   The	respondent's counsel sought to support his  argumentby  referring  to  the following cases	decided	 by  variousIndian	High  Courts where the words ,import'  and  'export'were construed as meaning 'bring in' or 'take out of or awayfrom'  and it was also held that goods in transit  are	alsocovered by the words 'imported into'or 'exported from'.   In  Re Rahimu Bhanji (1) which was a case of	 a  criminalprosecution  for  refusal to pay octroi on the	ground	thatoctroi	was  not due on goods in transit, the court  gave  aliteral	 meaning to the word "import" and held that  as	 thegoods had been brought within the limits of the Municipalitythey  were liable to octroi under the Rules  which  providedfor a refund, which could be applied for.  The definition ofoctroi seems to have been ignored in that case.In Narottamdas Harjivandas & Co. v. Bulsar Town Municipality   (2)	the  tax  was imposed on goods in  transit  and	 theargument  raised was that the municipality had no  power  toimpose a terminal tax upon such goods as were not meant	 forconsumption  within  the limits of  the	 Municipality.	 Thecourt held:   "In	our  opinion there is no force in  this	 contention.The  Municipal Rules and Bye-laws dealing with the  terminaltax  define it as 'an octroi levied on the import  into	 thesaid  Municipality  of goods specified in the  Terminal	 TaxSchedule, such octroi not   (I) (1897) I.L.R. 22 Bom. 843.   (2) I.L.R. (1941) Bom. 97, 103.1109being  liable  to be refunded.' 'Import' is defined  in	 theRules  as meaning 'conveying goods by Railway or by Ship  orotherwise  into	 Municipal limits'.  It is  clear  thereforethat  the  tax is leviable on all goods	 entering  Municipallimits whether they are intended for consumption within	 thecity  or  whether they are', merely in transit	through	 thecity to some other place ".   This	 decision  rested on the definition of the  words  "import	 "  and	 "  terminal  tax  "  without  taking	intoconsideration	the  meaning  of  'octroi'   which   impliesconsumption,  use or sale.  Besides these observations	werereally	obiter because the court held that the	goods  neverentered	 the limits of the Municipality and consequently  notax was chargeable.   Dalvadi  -Maganlal Bhagwandas v.  Ahmedabad	Municipality(1)  was  a  case in which bricks  manufactured	 within	 thelimits	of  the Ahmedabad Municipality had in  order  to  becarried to the place of business of the manufacturer,  whichwas in another part of the town, to be temporarily taken outof the limits of the Municipality and re-entered at  anotherpoint.	The re-entry was held to be " import " on the  basisof the dictionary meaning of the word and because "  import"had   no  reference  to	 and  was  not	qualified   by	 anyconsideration  of  the	place of  manufacture  or  place  ofconsumption.  Rajadhyaksha J., said at p. 137:  "  There is no such limitation on the meaning of the	wordimport " which must be given its ordinary meaningand at p. 140 the learned Judge observed:  " We are of the opinion that the word " import in r.	380,Ahmedabad Municipal Code must be given its ordinary meaning,and that is " to bring something within the Municipal limitsfrom  a place without its boundaries ", irrespective of	 theconsideration  as  to whether the  goods  were	manufacturedwithin	the  Municipal limits, how long	 they  were  outsidethose limits and for what purpose".(1)  I.L.R. (1945) Bom. 132.1110   The	 two  Nagpur  cases  relied  upon  were	  BhagwandasHarikishandas  v.  Municipal  Committee,  Yeotmal  (1)	 andKashiram Jhabarmal Firm v. Municipal Committee, Nagpur	(2).In  the former case the decision was again based  solely  onthe literal dictionary meaning of the words " imported	intoor  exported from ", and a further argument relying  on	 theexistence of the word " or " between "imported and  exported"  instead  of	"and........  as  an  argument	against	 the,imposition  of	 the  tax  on  goods  in  transit  was	alsorepelled.   In the latter case where the goods were  broughtinto  the municipal limits for being despatched by rail	 thecourt  again  relied  on the " plain meaning  of  the  words"imported  into	 or  exported from "  and  also	 on  certaingovernment   instructions  which  were	in  favour  of	 theimposition of tax on goods in transit.	There are also	someunreported  judgments  of  the Nagpur High  Court  taking  adifferent view of the words" imported into or exported from"and those have been referred to in the judgment of Grille C.J.  in	Kashiram's case (2) and in the	referring  order  ofSheode J., in the present case.  Emperor v. Har Dutt (3) was a case of payment of toll	 taxin  respect  of	 a lorry brought within the  limits  of	 theMunicipality  through  the toll barrier.  The word  used  inRule  I	 in  that case was " bring " and it  was  held	thatbringing  has no element of pause or repose.  This  case  ishardly relevant to the facts of the case now before us.  In  an  earlier case Nek Mohammad v. Emperor	(4)  to	 thewords  "  bring	 " and " import " an element  of  pause	 andrepose	was attached, but this case was not approved  of  inHardwarimal  Harnath  Das v. Municipal Board,  Dehradun	 (5)which  also  was  a case of goods in transit.	The  word  "import	" was there given the meaning " carried into ".	 Butthe  decision  was  based on the definitions  given  in	 theStatutory Rules to the word " import " which was "  bringinginto the terminal tax limits from outside those limits ".   (1) A.I.R (1945) Nag. 197.	     (2) I.L.R. (1946)	Nag.99.   (4) A. I. R. (1936) All. 83.(3)A.I.R. (1936) All. 743.(5) I. L. R. (1940) All. 4.			    1111   In  none  of	 these	cases was the  argument	 as  to	 thequalification  stemming from the use of the words  "terminaltax"  considered  nor  was the	signification  of  the	word"terminal " as a prefix to the word tax discussed.   The respondent also relied on Muller v. Baldwin (1) whereit  was	 held that " coals exported from the Port"  must  betaken to have been used in its ordinary meaning of " carriedout of the Port " and therefore included coals taken out  ofthe  port  in a steamer as " bunker coals " that  is,  coalstaken on board for the purpose of consumption on the voyage.The  argument  that  the term " exported "  must  receive  aqualified  interpretation and that it means taken  for	the.purpose	 of trade only was rejected. Lush J. said at p.	 461:-   "  There  is nothing in the language of the Act  to	shewthat  the  word "exported " was used in any other  than	 itsordinary sense............. Construing the words of the	 Actupon  this  principle,	we feel bound  to  hold	 that  coalscarried away from the port, not on a temporary excursion, asin a tug or pleasure-boat, which intends to return with moreor less of the coals on board, and which may be regarded  asalways	constructively within the port, but taken  away	 forthe  purpose of being wholly consumed beyond the  limits  ofthe  port, are coals " exported " within the meaning of	 theAct ".   Now	three  things clearly emerge  from  that  (Muller's)case;  (1) that the word "export " was not applied to  coalsin  transit because the coals were taken from the  port	 andstarted	 journey  from there and would be  included  in	 thephrase "taken out" of the port and (2) that temporary takingout was not " export " as was held in Maganlal Bhagwandas v.Ahmedabad  Municipality	 (2);  (3)  that  the  test  is	 theintention with which the goods were brought in or taken out.   It  was  urged  that	 in  accordance	 with  the   currentauthority  of  the different courts of	India,	a  differentinterpretation	should	not be placed on the  words  of	 thesection but this argument is of little avail in a case   (1) (1874) 9 Q B- 457.   (2) I.L.R. (1945) Bom. 132.1112where  the decision has not been acquiesced in for  long  orthe  authorities are not absolutely unanimous.	Moreover  itis not a case of disturbing the course of construction whichhas  continued unchallenged for such a length of time as  toacquire the sanction of continued decisions over a very longperiod	and  there  is therefore  no  principle	 which	willpreclude this court from correcting the error.	See  WilliamHamilton  and  John  Hamilton v.  William  Baker  (1).	 TheLancashire  and	 Yorkshire  Railway Company  v.	 The  Mayor,Alderman, and Burgesses of the Borough of Bury (2).  Pate v.Pate (3).   In  another	case  Wilson v.	  Robertson  (4)  under	 thestatute the duty was imposed on all goods "imported into  orexported from Berwick harbour" which extended down the Tweedto  the	 sea but no part of it extended	 above	the  bridge.Goods were brought up the river in a sea-going vessel  whichhaving	first  used rings and posts put up  by	the  HarbourCommissioners  in  order to moor while lowering	 the  masts,passed through Berwick Bridge, and unloaded her cargo  abouttwo hundred yards above the bridge and beyond the limits  ofthe  harbour.	It was held that goods were not	 "  importedinto " the harbour so as to make any dues payable in respectof them.  The argument raised there was that as there was noharbour	 down the Tweed except Berwick and though the  goodswere  actually unloaded above the Berwick bridge and out  ofthe limits of the harbour it was substantially imported intothe  harbour.  The vessel in that case was obliged  to	stopbefore passing the bridge and avail herself of the  benefitsof the machinery and works provided by the Commissioners andthat was part of the means used towards the unloading of thevessel	and it was argued that this would amount to  import.Lord Cambell C. J. said:   "  The argument on behalf of the plaintiff would be	verypertinent  if  addressed  to a Committee  of  the  House  ofCommons in favour of making the harbour dues payable in sucha case as the present.	We can,   (1)	(1889) 14 App.	Cas. 209, 220, 222.  (2)  (1889)  14App.  Cas. 417, 420.    (3) (1915) A. C. 1100, 1108.  (4) (1855) 24 L. J. Q.  B.185.			    1113however,  look only to what the legislature has enacted,  inorder  to  see	whether	 this  burthen	is  cast  upon	 thedefendants.   The  dues	 are  only to  be  paid	 upon  goodsimported  into the harbour of Berwick, the limits  of  whichare defined by the Act, and which does not extend above	 thebridge.	  Now,	has  this  iron been so	 imported  ?  It  isadmitted that, if it had been carried through the bridge  toa port higher up the river, no dues would have been payable;and  the plaintiff's counsel by that admits himself  out  ofcourt..............    These   observations   support	 thesubmissions against the meaning of " export " or " import  "being merely taking out of or bringing into.   Mersey  Docks and Harbour Board v. Twigge (1) was a	caseof goods shipped from a foreign port under a through bill oflading to Liverpool, landed in London and sent from there toLiverpool  in another ship and it was held that	 such  goodswere  imported into Liverpool ports beyond the seas and	 notfrom  London.  The transit began at Singapore and  ended  atLiverpool and was not broken by the transhipment in London.   By giving to the words " imported into or exported from "their  derivative  meaning  without  any  reference  to	 theordinary   connotation	of  these  words  as  used  in	 thecommercial  sense, the decided cases in India have  ascribedtoo  general a meaning to these words which it appears	fromthe  setting,  context	and history of the  clause  was	 notintended.  The effect of the construction of " import " or "export " in the manner insisted upon by the respondent wouldmake  railborne	 goods	passing through	 a  railway  stationwithin the limits of a Municipality liable to the impositionof  the	 tax  on their arrival at  the	railway	 station  ordeparture  therefrom  or both which would not only  lead  toinconvenience  but  confusion,	and  would  also  result  ininordinate delays and unbearable burden on trade both  interState  and intra State.	 It is hardly likely that  that	 wasthe  intention of the legislature.  Such  an  interpretationwould lead to absurdity which has, according to the rules ofinterpretation, to be avoided.  (1)	  (1898) 67 L.J. Q. B. 604.1114   Chief  Justice  Marshall  dealing with  the	word  "	 im-portation " said in Brown v. State of Maryland (1):   The practice of most commercial nations conforms to	thisidea.	Duties, according to that practice, are	 charged  onthose	articles  only	which  are  intended  for  sale	  orconsumption in the country.  Thus seastores, goods  importedand re-exported in the same vessel, goods landed and carriedover  land  for the purpose of being re-exported  from	someother  port,  goods  forced in by  stress  of  weather,	 andlanded,	 but not for sale are exempted from the	 payment  ofduties.	  The  whole course of legislation  on	the  subjectshows  that in the opinion of the legislature the  right  tosell is connected with the payment of the duties ".   Continuing the learned Chief Justice at p. 447 observed:   "Sale  is the object of importation, and is an  essentialingredient   of	 that  intercourse,  of	 which	 importationconstitutes  a part.  It is as essential an  ingredient,  asindispensable to the existence of the entire thing, then, asimportation  itself..................  " This  supports	 thecontention raised that " import " is not merely the bringinginto  but comprises something more i.e. " incorporating	 andmixing	up  of	the  goods imported with  the  mass  of	 theproperty " in the local area.  The concept of " import "  asimplying  some.	 thing brought for the purpose	of  sale  orbeing  kept is supported by the observations of Kelly C.  B.in  Harvey v. The, Mayor and Corporation of Lyme Regis	(2).There  the claim for a toll was made under the	Harbour	 Actand  the  words	 for construction were	"  goods  landed  orshipped	 within	 the same cobb or harbour  Construing  thesewords Kelly C. B. said:    "  The  ordinary  meaning and purport of  the  words  isperfectly clear, namely, that tolls are to be paid on  goodssubstantially  imported; that is, in fact, carried into	 theport for the purpose of the town and neigh-bourhood."   Similarly the word " export " has reference to taking outof goods which had become part and parcel of the mass of theproperty of the local area and will not   (1)	  (1827) 12 Wheat 419, 442; 6 L. Ed 678, 686.   (2)	  (1869) 4 EX. 260, 262.			    1115apply to goods in transit i.e. brought into the area for thepurpose	 of being transported out of it.  If  the  intentionwas to tax such goods then the word used should have been  "re-exported " which means to export (imported goods)  again;Re-exportation means the exportation of imported goods.   Even assuming that the words "imported into or " exportedfrom " could be restricted only to their derivative  meaningand  thus construed to mean only "brought into or taken	 outor  away from" this general meaning it was submitted by	 theappellant  is qualified by the use of the prefix  "terminal"used  adjectively  with	 the word "  tax",  which  makes  itnecessary to determine the meaning of the term terminal	 tax".  And the question then arises does it have  reference  tothe  jurisdictional  limits of the Municipality	 or  to	 theultimate  termination or the commencement of the journey  ofthe goods as the case may be.  In dealing with this the HighCourt said:  "  It remains to consider what is signified by the word  "terminal ". It is obvious that it could refer either to	 thetermini of the goods or the termini of the Municipality.  Itis clear to me that the word " terminal " refers not to	 thedestination or origin of the goods but to the termini of theMunicipal limits.  Digby, J., pointed out that it refers  tothe traffic rather than the origin of the goods ".  According  to the Oxford Dictionary " terminal means	end,boundary  ; situated at or forming the end or  extremity  ofsomething; situated at the end of a line of railway; formingor belonging to, a railway terminus.  "  Terminus  " means the point to which motion  or  actiontends, goal, end, finishing point; sometimes that from whichit starts; starting point.  An end; extremity; the point  atwhich something comes to an end.   In  Corpus  Juris  Vol. 62 it is stated at  p.  729	thatterminal  "  in connection with transportation	means  interalia " the fixed beginning or ending point of a given run1421116    if	"  terminal  "	besides the  above  meaning  has  anadditional  meaning  also  and that  meaning  signifies	 thetermini	 or the jurisdictional limits of the municipal	areaeven  then the construction to be placed on the term  shouldbe  the one that favours the tax-payer, in  accordance	withthe principle of construction of taxing statutes, which mustbe strictly construed and in case of doubt must be construedagainst the taxing authorities and doubt resolved in  favourof the taxpayer.  In Crawford on Statutory Constructions  inpara.  257  at p. 504 the following  passage  pertaining  toconstruction of taxing statutes taken from Bedford v.  Johnson(1) is quoted:   " Statutes levying taxes or duties upon citizens will notbe  extended by implication beyond the clear import  of	 thelanguage used, nor will their operation be enlarged so as toembrace	 matters  not  specifically  pointed  out,  althoughstanding  upon a close analogy, and all questions  of  doubtwill be resolved against the government and in favour of thecitizen,  and because burdens are not to be, imposed  beyondwhat the statute expressly imparts".  In  that  case  the court  refused  to  regard  automobileparking lots as falling within the scope of a statute  whichimposed	 a tax on general warehouse storage  establishments.On this principle the word " terminal " must in the  contextbe  construed as having reference to terminus and has to  beread  to connote the idea of the end of something  connectedwith  motion  and  not that of an intermediate	stage  of  ajourney.  It  would be quite legitimate to examine  the	 legislativehistory of these " terminal taxes " which would be a  usefulaid to construction of clause (o) of s. 66(1).	In the	lastcentury a tax known as Octroi payable on the entry of  goodsin  a  local area for consumption, use or sale	therein	 wasintroduced.  In 1920 an optional substitute called "terminaltax " came into existence by virtue of item 8 of Schedule 11of  the Scheduled Tax Rules framed under s. 80 A  (3)(a)  ofthe Government   (1)	  I02 COIO 203, 78 Pac (2) 373.			    1117of India Act, 1915 as amended in 1919.Item 8 was as follows:  Item 8 "A terminal tax on goods imported into or  exportedfrom, a local area, save where such tax is first imposed  ina  local area in which a octroi was not levied on or  beforethe  6th July, 1917." In the Government of India  Act,	1935this  item  was	 replaced by two items one  dealing  with  "terminal tax " and the other with the right of a local	areato  impose  tax on entry of goods into a  local	 area.	 Theformer	was put in the Central List (List 1) and the  latterin the Provincial List (List II). (1) Item No. 58 in List  Iof Schedule 7 of the Constitution Act was:   "  Terminal	taxes  on goods	 or  passengers	 carried  byrailway	 or air ; taxes on railway fares and  freights"	 and(2) in the Provincial List another item was  introduced-itemNo. 49 which was as follows:   "  Cesses  on the entry of goods into a  local  area	 forconsumption, use or sale therein."The Constitution of India maintains this distinction in	 theSeventh Schedule and item No. 89 in List I corresponding  tothe above mentioned item No. 58 is "terminal taxes on  goodsor  passengers,	 carried by railway, sea or  air;  taxes  onrailway fares and freights."  In the State List the item No. 52 which is as follows :  "Taxes  on  the  entry  of goods into	 a  local  area	 forconsumption, use or sale therein and Item No. 56 is:" Taxes on goods and passengers carried by road or on inlandwaterways ".The  legislative history of this tax thus shows that  octroiwas leviable on the entry of goods in a local area when	 thegoods  were  for  consumption, use  or	sale  therein.	 Thesubstituted  tax was terminal tax on goods imported into  orexported from a local area and by rules this tax in the caseof  Wardha Municipal Committee was imposed on certain  classof goods imported and on others exported by railway or road.In 1935 the terminal tax was made leviable on goods1118carried by railway or air but the tax on entry of goods	 wasimposable  on goods for consumption, use or sale in a  localarea.	 Both  these  taxes  have  been	 continued  by	 theConstitution.  If the pre 1920 octroi and the post 1935 cessor  tax	 on  entry  of	goods  is  payable  on	-goods	 forconsumption,   use  or	sale,  can  it	be  said  that	 theConstitution  Act  of 1915 as amended in 1919 or  the  Rulesmade  thereunder intended to vary the nature of the  tax  bythe introduction of item 8 in Sch.  II ,under the  ScheduledTax Rules i.e. the tax became leviable on entry of goods  oron  their  being  taken	 out  without  their  acquiring	 thequalification of incorporation with the mass of property  ofthe  local area.  The presumption is against the  impositionof  new burdens.  In the absence of clear intention  to	 thecontrary  the incidence of the tax leviable under item 8  ofSch.  II of the Schedule Tax Rules is incapable of having  adifferent  complexion from that which it had before 1920  orthat which was clearly given after 1935.  It was said in  U.S. v. Fisher (1):   "that  it  is  in the last  degree  improbable  that	 thelegislature would overthrow fundamental principles, infringerights,	 or depart from the general system of law.,  withoutexpressing	its	 intention	with	  irrestibleclearness....................It  is	also  a recognised principle  of  construction	thatgeneral	 words	and phrases however wide  and  comprehensivethey may be in their literal sense must usually be construedas being limited to the actual objects of the Act.  There isno evidence that the actual object of the Act in the presentcase  was  to  extend the powers of  the  Municipalities  toimposing  the  tax on articles which were in the  course  oftransit.   That	 by  the  substitution	of  terminal  tax  on  goodsimported  into	a local area the nature of the tax  had	 notbeen  altered from what it was when octroi was in  force  orwhen instead of " terminal tax " octroi (without refund, wassubstituted is clear from the decision of the Federal  Courtin  Punjab  Flour  and	General Mills'	case  (2)  which  isdiscussed in a later part of(1)  (1804) 2 Cranch 358, 390; 2 L. Ed.' 304.(2)  [1947] F.C.R. 17.			    1119this judgment.	Therefore terminal tax on goods imported  orexported is similar in its incidence and is payable on goodson  their  journey  ending within the  municipal  limits  orcommencing therefrom and not where the goods were merely  intransit through the municipal limits and had their  terminuselswhere.   The	vires  of  the tax has not  been  assailed  but	 thedifference in the language of the two items in List I and IIhas  been pressed before us for the purpose of showing	thatthe word " terminal " implies the terminus of a journey	 andnot the end of the jurisdictional limits of a  Municipality.Terminal  in item No. 58 of List I of the 1935	ConstitutionAct  has  reference to the terminus of	carriage  of  goods.There is no reason to give to this word a different  meaningin item No. 8 of Scheduled Tax Rules under the Government ofIndia  Act of 1915 or in clause (o) of s. 66(1) of the	Act.The  two  sets	of taxes in Lists I and	 11  have  differentqualities.   The "terminal tax" under item No. 58 of List  Iarises at the end of journey by railway wherever the end maybe in relation to particular goods' and under item No. 49 ofList  11  the  tax or cess on entry of	goods  whatever	 thenomenclature is imposable when the goods enter a local	areafor consumption, use or sale therein.  The two sets of taxesare so distinct that they may be imposed simultaneously, onewhen  they reach their destination at the end of  a  railwayjourney and the other when they enter the limits of a  localarea for the object above mentioned.  But in both cases	 theactivity  in regard to the motion of the goods ends, in	 theone case as the goods are carried no further by railway	 andin the other as their entry is for consumption, use or sale.Keeping	 in view the terms and language and the	 legislativehistory	 of the section 66(1) we are unable to	enlarge	 theterms  of the section by mere construction so as to  includewithin	its  operation goods which are in  transit  and	 arebeing  transported across the jurisdictional limits  of	 theMunicipality.   The	Federal Court in Punjab Flour and General Mills	 Co.Ltd.  v.  Chief Officer, Corporation of City of	 Lahore	 (1)considered the meaning of the word(1)  [1947] F.C.R. 17.1120" terminal" in a case which was brought from Lahore.   Therethe  Municipality of Lahore imposed a terminal tax  in	1926calculated  on the gross weight Of Consignments or per	tailas  the	 case  might be, at the rates and  on  the  articlesspecified in the schedule, imported into the Municipality byrail or by road.  By a notification of 1938 the Municipalityin supersession of that tax imposed a new tax called "Octroi(without  refund)" which was to be similarly  calculated  onthe  gross weightage of the consignments imported  into	 thelimits	of the Municipality.  This in turn was	replaced  bythe  imposition	 of a new tax also called  "Octroi  (withoutrefund)"  on  consignments imported into the limits  of	 theMunicipality.	The appellant's contention in that case	 wasthat the tax imposed was a " terminal tax " on goods carriedby  railway  and as such not  imposable.   The	Municipalityargued	on  the	 other hand that it was	 a  tax	 within	 theprovisions  of Entry No. 49 of List 11 and as such could  beimposed	 with  the  previous  sanction	of  the	  ProvincialGovernment under s. 61(2) of the Punjab Municipalities	Act.The following passage from the judgment of Spens C. J. showsthe meaning to be attached to the word " terminal ":   " There appears to us a definite distinction between	 thetype of taxes referred to as terminal taxes in Entry No.  58of  List  I of Sch. 7 and the type of taxes referred  to  ascesses on the entry of goods into a local area in Entry	 No.49  of List II.	 The former taxes must be (a)  terminal	 (b)confined to goods and passengers carried by railway or	air.They  must  be chargeable at a rail or air terminus  and  bereferrable  to services (whether of carriage  or  otherwise)rendered  or  to be rendered by some rail or  air  transportOrganisation.  The essential features of the cesses referredto  in Entry No. 49 of List II are on the other hand  simply(a)  the entry of goods into a definite local area  and	 (b)the requirement that the goods should enter for the  purposeof	   consumption,		use	    or		saletherein.....................................................In  our	 judgment there is no limitation to  be	 implied  inEntry  No.  49, List II, in regard to the  manner  in  whichgoods may be transported into a local area.  It follows			    1121that so far as rail-borne goods are concerned the same goodsmay well be subjected to taxation under Entry No. 58 of ListI  as well to local taxation under Entry No. 49 of List	 II.The  grounds  of  taxation under the  two  entries  are,  asindicated  above, radically different, and there is no	casefor  suggesting that taxation under the one entry limits  orinterferes in any way with taxation under the other."Therefore  according  to the Federal Court "  terminal"	 hasreference  to the terminus of the railway or air  i.e.,	 theend  of journey.  The tax imposed in that case was held	 notto  be	a terminal tax but merely a cess on entry  of  goodsinto  the  local area within Entry No. 49 of  List  II	eventhough	it  was	 imposed on  railborne	goods  entering	 themunicipal area.   It  is a noticeable feature of s. 66(1) that	 apart	fromthe  terminal  tax  there are 14  other	 heads	of  taxationimposable by the Municipality and in the case of each one ofthese 14 heads the tax is on some activity which takes placewithin the jurisdictional limits of the Municipality.	Thissupports  the contention of the appellant that the  terminaltax  leviable  under cl. (o) properly  construed  must	havereference  to some activity within the municipal area  i.e.,the  entry for the purpose of remaining within that area  orcommencement of journey from that area.   We  are, therefore, of the opinion that the terminal	 taxunder  s.  66(1)(o) is not leviable on goods  which  are  intransit	 and  are  only carried across	the  limits  of	 theMunicipality, and would therefore allow this appeal, reversethe  decision of the Nagpur High Court.	 The appellant	willhave its costs in this court and in the High Court.		      Appeal allowed.1122