PETITIONER:SHRI BALWANTRAI CHIMANLAL TRIVEDI	Vs.RESPONDENT:M.   N. NAGRASHNA AND OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:03/08/1960BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)KAPUR, J.L.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1292 CITATOR INFO : D	    1974 SC 471	 (8) R	    1977 SC2031	 (2) F	    1978 SC 533	 (9)ACT:Supreme	  Court--Appeal	  by  special	leave--Question	  ofjurisdiction  of inferior court--Court not bound  to  decidewhere  there is no failure of  justice--Review--Constitutionof India, Art. 136.HEADNOTE:Where  at  the hearing of an appeal filed by  special  leavefrom  a decision of the High Court in a Writ Petition  filedthere under Art. 226 of the Constitution of India against anorder	of  the	 Payment  of  Wages  Authority,	 the   Courtconsidered  that  there	 was some force	 in  the  contentionrelating to the jurisdiction of the Authority concerned	 butdid  not decide that question on the view that as there	 hadbeen  no  failure of justice the Court would  not  interfereunder  its powers under Art. 136, and the appellant  appliedfor a review of the judgment15114Held, that wide as are the powers of the Supreme Court underArt.  136 of the Constitution, its powers are  discretionaryand though special leave had been granted the Court was	 notbound to decide the question of jurisdiction of the inferiortribunal  or  court  where  the	 decision  of  the  inferiortribunal or court had been taken to a higher tribunal  whichundoubtedly had jurisdiction and from the decision of  whichthe   special  leave  was  granted  if	on  the	 facts	 andcircumstances  of  the	case it came to	 the  conclusion  indealing with the appeal under that Article that there was nofailure of justice.A. M. Allison v. B.  L. Sen, [1957] S.C.R. 359, relied on.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE  JURISDICTION: Review Petition	 No.  37  of1959.Petition for Review of this Court's judgment and order datedOctober 29, 1959, in Civil Appeal No. 38 of 1958.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, B. Sen,  J.   B.Mehta and J. B. Dadachanji, for the petitioner.N.   C. Chatterjee and S. S. Shukla, for respondents.J.   B. Mehta and J. B. Dadachanji, for intervenersNos. 1 to 13.J. B. Dadachanji, for interveners Nos. 14 to 19.1960.  August 3. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byWANCHOO J.-This is an application for review of the judgmentdelivered by this Court, to which three of us were party, onOctober	 29, 1959.  The ground on which review is sought  isthat there are mistakes and/ or errors apparent on the	faceof the record and therefore the judgment in question  shouldbe  reviewed.	The  petitioner contends  further  that	 thejudgment under review had dealt with the matter of issue  ofwrits by High Courts under Art. 226 of the Constitution	 andthis involved a question which could only have been dealt bya  bench  of not less than five judges-and that is  why	 thereview	application has been placed before a bench  of	fivejudges.	 Lastly it is contended that this Court should	havedecided	 the  question	of jurisdiction	 as  various.  otherparties	 had agreed to be governed by the decision  in	thiscase and that would have saved multiplicity of proceedings.115Before	we  deal  with the points urged in  support  of	 thepetition  we  should  like to state what  exactly  has	beendecided	 by the judgment under review.	The appeal in  whichthe judgment under review was given came up before the Courton special leave granted under Art. 136 of the	Constitutionfrom a decision of the Bombay High Court in a writ  petitionfiled  there under Art. 226 against an order of the  Paymentof  Wages  Authority.  The question of jurisdiction  of	 thePayment of Wages Authority was raised before this Court	 andreliance in that connection was placed on the decision in A.V.  D'Costa v. B. C. Patel and another(1).  It was  remarkedin the judgment under review that there appeared to be	someforce in the contention relating to the jurisdiction of	 thePayment	 of  Wages  Authority; but this	 Court	did  not  gofurther	 and decide that question on the view that as  therehad  been  no  failure	of  justice  this  Court  would	 notinterfere   under   its	 powers	 under	Art.  136   of	 theConstitution, particularly as the matter came before it froma  decision of the Bombay High Court and not  directly	fromthe Authority.	In that connection reference was made to thecase of A. M. Allison v. B. L. Sen (2), in which in  similarcircumstances this Court had refused to decide the  questionof  jurisdiction,  because it was satisfied that  there	 hadbeen no failure of justice.  All that therefore the judgmentunder  review  decided was that where this Court is  of	 theview that there is no failure of justice it is not bound  tointerfere   under   its	 powers	 under	Art.  136   of	 theConstitution.  Reference to Allisons' Case (2) was made onlyto  show that in almost similar circumstances  (except	thatAllison's  Case came to this Court on a certificate  grantedunder  Art. 133(1) (c) of the Constitution), this Court	 hadrefused to decide the question of jurisdiction as there	 wasno  failure of justice.	 The judgment under review  did	 notdeal with the powers of the High Court under Art. 226 of theConstitution and nowhere laid down anything in conflict withthe previous decision of this Court in	H.   V.	 Kamath	  v.Syed Ahmad Ishaque and others(3).(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1353.      (2) [1957] S.C.R. 359.(3) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1104.116Thus  the narrow point decided by the judgment under  reviewwas  that when dealing with an appeal under Art. 136 of	 theConstitution this Court comes to the conclusion %that  thereis  no	failure of justice, it is not bound  to	 decide	 andinterfere  even	 when  a question  of  jurisdiction  of	 theoriginal  court	 or tribunal is raised in a case  where	 thematter	had  been  considered by a  higher  tribunal,  whichundoubtedly  had jurisdiction, and the appeal to this  Courtis from the decision of the higher tribunal.This being the decision of this Court in the judgment  underreview,	 let  us see if there is any reason to	review	thatjudgment  on the grounds urged in the petition.	  Before  weconsider the main ground in support of the review we  shouldlike to observe that the fact that other parties had  agreedto be governed by the decision in the judgment under  reviewcan  be no ground for review.  Are there then such  mistakesand/  or errors apparent on the face of record	which  wouldjustify	 a review?  It is said that in dealing with  whetherthere  has been failure of justice in this case, this  Courtomitted	 to  consider  certain	provisions  of	the   BombayIndustrial  Relations  Act,  1946.   Assuming  this  to	  becorrect,  the  question	 still	is  whether  even  after   aconsideration of those provisions the decision of this Courton  the	 question  of failure of  justice  would  have	beendifferent.  On a further consideration of the reasons  givenin  the judgment under review for holding that there was  nofailure	 of justice we feel that the decision on this  pointwould  have  been  still the same  even	 if  the  provisionsreferred  to had been considered.  In the  circumstances  weare  of	 opinion that there is no ground for review  of	 thejudgment  even if it be assumed that certain  provisions  ofthe Bombay Industrial Relations Act, 1946, were relevant andhad not been considered.The main plank however of the petitioner is that this  Courtwas  bound to consider the question of jurisdiction and	 thequestion  whether  there was failure of justice or  not	 wasbound up with the question of jurisdiction and a decision onthat question was necessary to arrive at the conclusion thatthere was no117failure	 of  justice.	This contention	 also  must  in	 ouropinion be rejected, specially in the context of the  narrowpoint  which, as we have already indicated, was	 decided  inthe judgment under review.  Besides it is not unknown to lawthat  decisions	 of  original courts and  tribunals  may  beallowed	 to stand even though there may be some doubt as  tothe  jurisdiction  of such courts or tribunals.	  There	 areprovisions  in	the  revenue laws where	 in  case  of  doubtwhether	  the	civil  court  or  the  revenue	 court	 hasjurisdiction  the decision of the original court is  allowedto  stand  in  certain circumstances if there  has  been  nofailure	 of justice : (see, for example, ss. 290 and 291  ofthe  U. P. Tenancy Act, 1939).	Therefore when the  judgmentunder  review left the question of jurisdiction open on	 theground	that  there  was  no  failure  of  justice  and	  inconsequence this Court refused to exercise its	jurisdictionunder  Art. 136, it cannot be said that something  was	donewhich was unknown to law.  It is necessary to remember	thatwide  as  are our powers under Art. 136, their	exercise  isdiscretionary;	and  if	 it is conceded, as it	was  in	 thecourse	of  the	 arguments,  that  this	 Court	could	havedismissed  the	appellant's application	 for  special  leavesummarily on the ground that the order under appeal had donesubstantial  justice,  it  is difficult	 to  appreciate	 theargument that because leave has been granted this Court mustalways and in every case deal with the merits even though itis  satisfied  that  ends  of justice  do  not	justify	 itsinterference  in a given case.	In the circumstances we	 areof  opinion  that  this Court was not bound  to	 decide	 thequestion  of jurisdiction on the facts and circumstances  ofthis case when it had come to the conclusion in dealing withan appeal Under Art. 136 of the Constitution that there	 wasno  failure  of justice.  The review  application  thereforefails and is hereby dismissed with costs.		      Review application dismissed.118