PETITIONER:MR. C.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE ADVOCATE-GENERAL OF MADRASDATE OF JUDGMENT:06/05/1957BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.JAGANNADHADAS, B.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1957 AIR  722		  1957 SCR 1092ACT:Professional  misconduct-Advocate  borne on the rolls  of  aHigh  Court and Supreme Court-Debarred by High Court on	 BarCouncil's report-Summons by Supreme  Court-Procedure-SupremeCourt Rules, 0. IV, r. 30.HEADNOTE:The appellant, an Advocate whose name was borne on the rollsof the Madras High Court and of the Supreme Court, was foundguilty	of gross professional misconduct by the Madras	HighCourt on the report of the Bar Council Tribunal and debarredfrom1093practising  in that Court.  The charge against him was	thathe  did not utilise a particular sum of money  entrusted  tohim  by his client to clear a mortgage in order to secure  aclear title for him in completion of a transaction of  sale,for  that  purpose  nor	 account  for  it.   The   appellantpreferred  an appeal by special leave and this Court,  beingapprised  of  the order passed by the'	Madras	High  Court,issued a Rule under r. 30, 0. IV of the Supreme Court Rules.It  was	 found	by this Court that the	charge	against	 theappellant was fully supported by a large volume of  evidenceon record, both oral and documentary.Held,  that the appeal must be dismissed and the  Rule	madeabsolute  and the appellant's name removed from the roll  ofAdvocates of this Court.It is a great privilege to be an Advocate of this Court	 andonly  such  persons as can satisfy a very high	standard  ofintegrity of character can be enrolled as such.	 An Advocatewho  is	 found	to have fallen from  that  standard  and  isdebarred  by  the  High Court cannot be	 considered  fit  topractise in this Court.Proceedings  under r. 30, 0. IV Of the Supreme	Court  Rulesshould be treated as a natural sequel to proceedings in	 theHigh Court under the Bar Councils Act and although an  ordermade  by  the  High  Court  under that	Act  is	 not  to  beautomatically  followed by this Court, it is  not  necessarythat  this Court should start a fresh inquiry  on  evidence.It  would be enough for it to generally examine	 the  recordprepared  by the Bar Council Tribunal and take into  accountthe  findings  of  the	High Court  based  on  such  report.Reasonable  opportunity	 must, however, be afforded  to	 theAdvocate  of being heard against the action proposed  to  betaken  against him and adducing such additional evidence  asthis  Court may think proper.  The Attorney General  or	 anyother  Advocate representing the Legal Profession  generallyor the complainant or the aggrieved party may also be  heardbefore the final decision is arrived at.In the matter of an Advocate, Case No. XVI of 1942,  decidedon  March  23, 1943, In Ye: D. A.  Shammugasundaraswami,  anAdvocate  Misc.	 Case No. X of 1948, decided on January	 24,1949,  In  the matter of Mr. 'G', a Senior Advocate  of	 theSupreme	 Court, (1955) S.C.R. 49o and In the matter of	'D',an  Advocate  of the Supreme Court, (1955)  2  S.C.R.  1006,referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 146 of 1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedDecember 3, 1954, of the Madras High Court in Referred	CaseNo. 69 of 1954.M.   S. K. Aiyanger, for the appellant.1094R.   Ganapathy	Iyer and T. M. Sen, for respondents  Nos.  1and 2.1957.  May 6. The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySINHA J.-This appeal by special leave and the summons  underrule  30 of Order IV of the Supreme Court Rules, 1950,	havebeen  heard  together  and  will  be  disposed	of  by	thisJudgment.The  appellant was an advocate of the Madras High  Court  ofmore  than  25	years'	standing, and  was  enrolled  as  anadvocate  of  the then Federal Court in the year  1939.	  Aswill presently appear, he has had a chequered career at	 theBar.   A Full Bench of the Madras High Court, presided	overby  the	 Chief Justice of that Court, by  its  judgment	 andorder,	dated  December	 3,  1954,  has	 directed  that	 theappellant's  name be removed from the roll of  advocates  ofthe Madras High Court, for "grave professional	misconduct".This  Court,  having  been apprised of	the  result  of	 theproceedings against the appellant in the High Court,  issuednotice	to him to show cause why he should not be  suspendedfrom  practice in view of the findings recorded by the	HighCourt.It  appears  that  the appellant was engaged by	 one  K.  T.Appannah,  ordinarily residing in Bangalore city,  who	willhereinafter be referred to as the Complainant, to complete atransaction of sale between the complainant and the owner ofa house property in the city of Madras, whom we shall  call,in  the	 course	 of  this judgment,  as	 the  vendor,  afterscrutinizing  the  title deeds in respect  of  the  propertywhich  was  the subject-matter of the transaction  of  sale.Before	the  appellant was engaged by the  complainant,	 thebargain	 had been struck and the sale price of the  propertyhad been fixed at Rs. 15,000 out of which Rs. 1,300 had beenpaid  to  the  vendor by way of earnest	 money.	  A  retiredGovernment  servant named Sundararajayya who was a  relationof  the	 complainant,  and  used  to  live  near  about	 theappellant's  residence, had also helped the  complainant  inacquiring the property, and in that connection, used to giveinstructions to the appellant1095on  behalf  of	the  complainant.   On	May  11,  1951,	 thecomplainant  sent, by way of a demand draft, the sum of	 Rs.1,400, to the appellant, to meet the costs of stamp for	 thesale  deed,  and registration, and a fee of Rs. 150  to	 theappellant  for his work in connection with the	transaction.In the course of the enquiry into the title to the property,it was discovered that there was a mortgage on the property,of  Rs.	 5,500, on the basis of a  registered  mortgage-deedwhich  had  been  filed	 in  Court  in	connection  with   alitigation in respect of that very property, pending on	 theoriginal side of the Madras High Court.	 By negotiation,  itwas settled that Rs. 5,500, out of the sale price, shall  bereserved  for the discharge of the mortgage debt,  and	thatthe  remaining amount of the consideration, will be paid  tothe  vendor  on	 completion  of	 the  sale  transaction	 anddelivery   of  vacant  possession  of  the  property.	 Theappellant  wrote to the complainant that the  latter  shouldsend  him  a demand draft for Rs. 5,600, in  his  name,	 forpayment to the mortgagee, aforesaid, when the mortgage bond,properly discharged, would be handed over to the  appellant,acting for the complainant.  In due course, on or about June26,  1951, a demand draft in the name of the appellant,	 forRs.  5,600,  was  sent by the complainant  for	the  expresspurpose	 of  discharging the mortgage debt,  aforesaid.	  OnAugust	21, 1951, a cheque for Rs. 1,200, on  September	 26,1951,  a  cheque  for Rs. 500, and on October  19,  1951,  ademand	draft  for  Rs.	 5,500,	 all  in  the  name  of	 theappellant, were sent by the complainant, in order to put himin  funds  for completing the transaction of  sale  and	 forpayment	 of the consideration money to the vendor.  On	July9,  1951,  the	sale-deed  was	executed  by  some  of	 theexecutants, and on September 6, 1951, it was executed by theremaining executant, and registered.  Hence, it would appearthat  between  May  11,	 1951, and  October  24,  1951,	 thecomplainant  had  paid	to the appellant,  the	sum  of	 Rs.15,200,	 which was sufficient to pay the outstanding  amountof the consideration for sale, namely, Rs. 13,700, includingthe  mortgage amount, aforesaid, of Rs. 5,500,	besides	 thecosts  of stamp and registration and the  appellant's  fees.But it appears1096that  the vendor's portion of the consideration	 money,	 waspaid  by  the  appellant on November 23,  1951,	 after	someavoidable   delay  due	to  him,  and  vacant  delivery	  ofpossession given to the appellant as stipulated between	 theparties.   It  appears further that the complainant  was  inneed of raising money on the security of the  newly-acquiredproperty,  and,	 therefore, was anxious to receive  all	 thedocuments   of	title  including  the  mortgage	 bond	dulydischarged.  But the appellant, for reasons of his own, wenton  postponing	the payment of the mortgage  money  on	somepretext	 or the other.	On being pressed for  the  mortgage-deed, duly discharged, being handed over to the complainant,and  as a result of a protracted correspondence, the  appel-lant sent, to the complainant, on June 26, 1952, a number ofdocuments  including  "cancelled  mortgage  documents."	  Itshould	be added here that the mortgage transaction  of	 Rs.5,500, had been entered into by the owner of the property inorder to discharge previous mortgages on the same  property.All these documents had to be withdrawn from the High  Courtwhere  they had been in the custody of the Court as  alreadyindicated.   Unfortunately, Sundararajayya died on June	 28,1952.	 As   a	 result	 of  further   correspondence,	 thecomplainant came to realise, to his cost, that the  mortgagedebt  of  Rs. 5,500 had not been paid to the  mortgagee,  asarranged  between the appellant and the complainant who	 hadput  him  in funds with the express purpose of	obtaining  aclear title to the property which he had agreed to purchase.Thus, the complainant was reduced to the necessity of filinga  regular  petition  of  complaint in	the  High  Court  onNovember  14,  1952.   In that-petition	 of  complaint,	 thecomplainant   made  copious  quotations	 from  the   lettersaddressed by the appellant to him and made reference to	 thefact  that  the mortgagee had already instituted a  suit  incourt for recovery of the mortgage money, and had  impleadedthe  complainant  as  party  defendant	to  the	 suit.	 Thegravamen  of  the charge against the appellant was  that  hehad not discharged the outstanding mortgage on the  propertypurchased,  for which he had been supplied with ample  fundsby the complainant1097and  that he had not disclosed how and in what	manner,	 thecomplainant's  money,  meant  for  the	purpose,  had	beenutilized by the appellant.In answer to the notice issued to him on February 16,  1953,the  appellant	submitted  along  statement  by	 way  of  anexplanation  which runs into about 43 pages in print,  whichis more in the nature of an argument in justification of hisconduct than a statement of facts.The  High  Court  referred the complaint,  for	inquiry	 andreport,	 to the Bar Council.  Three members of	the  Councilconstituted  the  Tribunal  which  held	 a  very   elaborateinquiry.    After  recording  both  oral   and	 documentaryevidence,  the Bar Council made its report on May  5,  1954,holding that:"........  both the charges have been fully established	 andthat the respondent has not only not used the moneys of	 thecomplainant  for the purpose for which the money  was  sent,but that the respondent has not accounted at all for the sumof  rupees  5,000, which was admittedly cashed	by  him	 andbrought into his bank account though not in his professionalaccount."In  course  of	its  report, the  Tribunal  found  that	 theappellant   had	 received  all	the  amounts  sent  by	 thecomplainant, as set out above.	It also pointed out that  anunfortunate  feature of the case was that the mortgage	bondin  question  which  was  one  of  the	"cancelled  mortgagedocuments",  had  not  been produced before  it.   The	non-production  of	the crucial document was  explained  to	 theTribunal by counsel for the complainant.  It was stated thatthe  mortgagedeed in question, along with  other  documents,had  been left by the complainant with his counsel and	thatthe  whole  bundle of papers including those  documents	 had"disappeared  from his office".	 One can only surmise as  towho may have been responsible for secreting those documents,or, for whose benefit, they had been stolen away, as allegedby counsel for the complainant.	 Another ugly aspect of	 theproceedings was that a number of letters, admittedly writtenby  the appellant to the complainant in connection with	 thetransaction  of	 sale, had been found by the High  Court  tohave been1411098tampered with or bodily substituted.  The Tribunal  observedwith particular reference to exhibit C-12, which was allegedto have been substituted for the original, that the  learnedcounsel for the complainant had not persisted in the  chargethat it had been substituted; and that he did not press	 thecharge that there had been certain alterations in some otherletters	 which formed part of the voluminous  correspondencethat  passed between the appellant and the complainant.	  Itmay  be	 observed here that no specific	 "charge"  had	beendrawn up against the appellant in respect of those  letters.Hence, when the Tribunal stated that the ' charge' had	beenwithdrawn, it only meant to say that the learned counsel forthe  complainant  did not persist in his  allegations  aboutthose  alterations or the wholesale substitution of  exhibitC-12  about which we will have to say something more in	 thecourse of this judgment.The  Tribunal  examined,  in  some  detail,  the  particulardefence	 of  the appellant with reference  to  the  specificcharges made against him in respect of the sum of Rs. 5,600,admittedly sent by the complainant for the specific  purposeof  discharging	 the mortgage encumbrance on  the  purchasedproperty.  It appears to have been the appellant's case thatthe demand draft for Rs. 5,500, dated October 24, 1951,	 hadbeen  sent  to	him through  Sundararajayya,  and  that	 theappellant, after getting the amount of the draft credited tohis  personal account, kept only Rs. 500 for payment to	 thevendor	and made over to Sundararajayya the remaining  5,000rupees	in cash.  It was not his case that  the	 complainanthad  instructed	 him  to pay  to  Sundararajayya  the  5,000rupees, alleged by him to have been paid to  Sundararajayya.It  was not even his case that he had taken any receipt	 forthe said sum from Sundararajayya, though he alleged that  hehad  given a receipt to Sundararajayya for the much  smallersum  of Rs. 500 which he admitted to have kept in his  handson  account  of the complainant for payment to	the  vendee.After  reviewing  the entire evidence and  particularly	 thecorrespondence	that  passed between the appellant  and	 thecomplainant, the1099Tribunal   came	 to  the  conclusion  that   the   appellant"dishonestly and fraudulently represented to the complainantthat the mortgage had been cancelled and he picked out 3 outof  the	 36  documents	received by  him  from	the  vendor,including  the mortgage document( herein involved, and	sentthe  same to the complainant describing them  as  'cancelleddocuments'.   The only inference that one can draw  is	thatthe  respondent having utilized the monies intended for	 thedischarge  of  the mortgage for his own purpose put  on	 themortgage  document  the marks of cancellation and  sent	 thesame to the complainant at the pressure of the complainant'sdemand for the discharged mortgage document".  The  Tribunalalso  examined	all  the relevant evidence  bearing  on	 thepayment	 back  of Rs. 5,000, to Sundararajayya, out  of	 thedemand	 draft	for  Rs.  5,500,  admittedly  sent  by	 thecomplainant  and  credited to the personal  account  of	 theappellant.   As already indicated, Sundararajayya  had	diedbefore the commencement of the inquiry, and, therefore,	 hisevidence  could	 not be available to the Tribunal.   But  inspite  of  the	complete absence of  the  mortgage  bond  inquestion from the record, and of the possible explanation ofSundararajayya, the Tribunal had no difficulty in coming  tothe  conclusion	 that the appellant "is clearly	 guilty	 notonly  of professional misconduct but also a clear breach  oftrust.	"This  report of the Tribunal was closely examined by a	FullBench  of the Madras High Court.  The learned Chief  Justicewho presided over the Bench, after carefully considering allthat  could have been said on behalf of the  appellant,	 andthe  relevant evidence both oral and documentary,  confirmedthe findings of the Tribunal.  It went a little further	 andheld that exhibit C-12 was not genuine and that the letters-exhibits  C-  10 and C- 11 contained interpolations  at	 theinstance of the appellant who was the respondent before	 theCourt.	 In  this  connection,	the  High  Court  made	 thefollowing observations:"  The learned Advocate-General attacked the genuineness  ofthis  letter.  Whether there was another genuine  letter  ofthe same date or not, it is not1100necessary  to  decide.	 No doubt, this	 letter	 is  in	 thehandwriting of the respondent.	After deep consideration  ofall  the circumstances, we are clearly of opinion that	thisletter	must  have  been introduced into the  bundle  is  ofdocuments  with the complainant's advocate at or  about	 thesame  time, when the respondent made the  interpolations  inthe letters dated 6-9-1951 and 6-10-1951, (exhibits C-10 andC-11)."In the result, the High Court directed that the	 appellant'sname be removed from the roll of advocates of that Court.Against	 this order, the appellant prayed for  and  obtainedspecial leave to appeal to this Court.	It is convenient  atthis  stage,  to  deal with the arguments  advanced  by	 thelearned	 counsel for the appellant.  It has  been  suggestedthat  the inquiry by the Bar Council Tribunal was  "ramblingand  roving".  This objection is not  altogether  unfounded.It  appears from the order sheet maintained by the  Tribunalthat  charges were framed on July 22, 1953, and the  inquirycontinued from date to date until the report was made on May5,  1954.   The Tribunal handled the case on as many  as  45dates  and the printed record of the inquiry runs  into	 296pages  in  print.  This must have entailed a  good  deal  ofexpenditure  of	 time and money to the parties and  one	 mayparticularly  sympathize with the complainant who had to  gothrough all this after having been deprived of at least	 Rs.5,000,	if  not	 more, as found by the High  Court  and	 theTribunal.   But if it is necessary to apportion blame,	muchof it may be laid at the door of the appellant himself,	 whoappears	 to  have spent a lot of ingenuity  over  trying  toexplain his dealings with his unfortunate client.  In answerto  the	 charge	 framed by the	Bar  Council  Tribunal,	 theappellant submitted a long "written answer" on September 27,1953.  But before that, he had already submitted a  'writtenexplanation' on February 16, 1953, running into 43 pages  inprint,	as  already indicated.	There is no doubt  that	 theappellant left no stone unturned to cloud the issues and  tothrow  a veil over his mis-deeds, as found by  the  Tribunaland the Madras High Court.  It is cleat, therefore, that  itis1101not the appellant who should have made any grievance out  ofthe so-called rambling and roving inquiry.It  was	 next pointed out that the inquiry by  the  Tribunalinto  the  alleged misconduct of the appellant	was  in	 thenature	of  a quasi-criminal proceeding, and(  as  necessarycorollaries to this proposition, it was contended     (1) that the charge should have been more precise, that(2) it should have been proved beyond all reasonable doubt.We  have  examined these contentions with reference  to	 therecord	as prepared by the Tribunal and in our	opinion,  ithas not been made out that the charge was so defective as tomislead the appellant or to cause any substantial  prejudiceto him or that there is any room for reasonable doubt as  tothe truth of the charges framed against the appellant.	 Thecharges framed against the appellant were in these terms:"  That you Mr. ' C ', in acting for the petitioner  as	 hisadvocate  in the matter of scrutinising the title  deeds  ofNo.  104-A,  Lloyds Road, Gopalapuram, Madras,	and  puttingthrough	 the  sale  of the  said  premises  in	petitioner'sfavour,	 received  from	 the petitioner Rs.  5,600  for	 thepurpose	 of  discharging  a  mortgage  encumbrance  on	 theproperty  and  that  you  have not  applied  the  monies  soentrusted  to  you  then  and  there  for  the	purposes  ofentrustment.That  you  Mr.	'C  ' have  further  not  disclosed  to	 thepetitioner how and in what manner you have utilised the saidmonies	and  that you have not accounted for the  same	whendemanded.That   you  have  for  these  reasons  committed   acts	  ofprofessional  misconduct liable to be dealt with  under	 theBar Councils Act.  "With reference to the charge in the first paragraph, it	 wascontended   that  the  charge,	as  it	appears,  has	beencompletely answered by the appellant.  The argument runs  asfollows:  The reference to the sum of Rs. 5,600,  apparentlyis to the demand draft for the said amount dated January 26,1951.	This  amount, the appellant claimed, had  been	paidover to the vendee1102himself on November 23, 1951, when vacant possession of	 thepremises purchased was delivered to the appellant.This could have been a complete answer to the charge, if  ithad been found as a fact that out of the demand draft  datedOctober 24, 1951, of Rs. 5,500, the appellant had paid	backto  Sundararajayya the sum of Rs. 5,000, as alleged by	him.But  as found by the Court below confirming the	 conclusionsof  the	 Bar Council Tribunal, the appellant had  failed  toestablish  by  reliable evidence that the sum of  Rs.  5,000had, as a matter of fact, been paid back to  Sundararajayya,aforesaid.   Hence,  on the findings, it is clear  that	 theappellant had in his hands, more than ample funds to pay theentire	 consideration	 money	 including   the    mortgageencumbrance  of Rs. 5,500, after deducting Rs. 1,300,  whichhad already been paid to the vendor by way of earnest money,before the appellant came on the scene.	 But it is sought tobe  pointed out on behalf of the appellant that	 the  chargeagainst	 him was not that he had not accounted for,  or	 hadembezzled  any portion of the sum of RE. 5,500, sent to	 himlast  on October 24, 1951.  This argument assumes  that	 themortgage-debt outstanding against the purchased property hadto  be discharged in specie, out of any particular item	 outof   several  instalments  in  which  the  complainant	 badentrusted the total sum of Rs. 15,200, to the appellant,  inconnection with the transaction in question.  The  appellanthad to account for the due application of the said amount ofRs.  15,200, being the total sum placed in his hands by	 hisclient	for the purpose of seeing through  the	transaction.The  appellant	himself	 does not  claim  that	he  renderedaccount	 of  the  total sum thus entrusted  to	him  by	 hisclient.	 The appellant cannot be said to have duly accountedfor  all this sum unless it were held that he had  paid	 Rs.5,000 in cash to Sundararajayya.  On his own showing, if  itis  held,  as  it  has been found  by  the  High  Court,  inagreement with the Tribunal, that the sum of Rs. 5,000,	 hadnot  been  paid	 to Sundararajayya, the	 appellant  has	 notaccounted  for	the entire amount entrusted to	him  by	 hisclient.	 This then is a clear1103case,  shorn  of all verbiage introduced  by  the  appellanthimself	 to  cloud  the	 issues,  that	the  appellant	 wasentrusted  by his client with the sum of Rs. 15,200, out  ofwhich,	he had to discharge the mortgage-debt of Rs.  5,500,as  settled  with the mortgagee by  the	 appellant  himself,acting	on  behalf of the complainant.	 The  appellant	 hasnever pretended that he has paid this sum to the  mortgagee.This  is made absolutely clear by the appellant's  statementin  paragraph  58  of  his  written  explanation',  to	 thefollowing effect:"  There  is  no  question  of	'my  having  discharged	 themortgage.   I did not discharge the mortgage.  I never	paidany  money to the mortgagee or to anyone on his	 behalf.   Inever told or wrote and I could not have told or written  toany,  at any time, that I had paid the mortgage claim.	 Theallegation  or	suggestion  to that effect  is	untrue.	  Asalready stated, I was not placed with the requisite funds onand after 21-11-1951.  "There  is  thus	 no  escape from  the  conclusion  that	 theappellant  had	not  applied  the  sum	of  Rs.	 5,500,	  indischarging the mortgage debt, aforesaid, out of the sum  ofRs.  15,200, placed in his hands by the complainant for	 thespecific purpose of acquiring a clear title to the property.It  would have been better if the Bar Council  Tribunal	 hadcalled	upon the appellant to account for the entire  amountof  Rs. 15,200, which he admitted he had received  from	 hisclient,	 instead  of  mentioning only the one  item  of	 Rs.5,600.	 That  would  have been a  straight  case  to  stateagainst the appellant.	But there is no reason to hold	thatthe  appellant was in any way prejudiced in his	 defence  bythe  omission  in the charge to mention the  entire  sum  ofmoney entrusted to him.	 It was repeatedly mentioned  beforeus that the appellant might have been a fool in his dealingswith  the  money placed at his disposal	 by  his  client-thecomplainant.  There are clear indications in the record thatthe  appellant, far from being a fool, is a knave, and	thathe  knew  fully	 what charge he had to meet.   There  is  noambiguity in the charge and there is no doubt that the	HighCourt  was fully justified in wholeheartedly confirming	 theconclusions of the1104Tribunal.   It is equally clear to us that there is no	roomfor   any   doubt   whatsoever	that   the   appellant	 hadmisappropriated	 his client's money and that the High  Courtwas  fully justified in striking off his name from the	rollof advocates of that Court.It remains to consider the further points sought to be	madeon  behalf  of	the appellant that the High  Court  was	 notjustified  in recording its findings in respect of  exhibitsC-10,  C-11  and  C-12, quoted	above,	specially  when	 thelearned	 counsel for the complainant had not  pressed  thoseallegations   of  interpolation	 and  forgery,	before	 theTribunal.   This  contention  is  well	founded.   We  have,therefore, left completely out of account, those allegationsof  material alterations in exhibits C-10 and C-11  and	 thealleged wholesale substitution of the original of exhibit C-12.  In considering the question whether the charges  framedagainst	 the  appellant	 have been  substantiated,  we	haveproceeded  on  the assumption that these  letters,  as	theyappear at present, are genuine.	 They contain the statementsof  the	 appellant  himself and	 constitute  an	 attempt  toexplain away his acts of omission and commission in relationto the transaction of sale for which he had been engaged  bythe  complainant.  Those statements are wholly out  of	tunewith  the rest of the record and  particularly	inconsistentwith  the  rest of the correspondence which  had  admittedlypassed	between the appellant and the complainant.  We	havenot  dealt,  in detail, with the  voluminous  correspondencebetween the parties because this being an appeal by  specialleave,	we  have  not found it	necessary  to  examine	veryclosely, the findings of fact recorded by the High Court  inconcurrence  with  the	Tribunal.   The	 case  against	 theappellant,  as	made  out  by  the  complainant,  is   fullysupported  by a large body of reliable oral and	 documentaryevidence  which	 is consistent only with the  guilt  of	 theappellant,  and	 wholly	 inconsistent  with  his  innocence,notwithstanding	 the  fact that he made a belated  but	vainattempt to white-wash his misconduct.Turning	 to  the  summons  issued  by  this  Court  to	 theappellant, the first question that arises is the1105procedure according to which this summons is to be  disposedof Should this Court initiate independent proceedings in thesense  of making fresh inquiry after recording evidence	 proand  con, and then come to its conclusions, or, should	thisCourt  proceed	upon the, inquiry already made by  the	HighCourt  through	the  Bar Council Tribunal,  and	 record	 itsorders after giving the Advocate concerned an opportunity ofbeing  heard  against similar orders being  passed  by	thisCourt, in view of the consideration that an advocate of thisCourt may be entitled to practice in any of the	 subordinatecourts in India even though he may not be borne on the	rollof  advocates  of  any	particular  High  Court	 ?  In	thisconnection,  we have precedents of the time of	the  FederalCourt  and of this Court which are analogous to the case  inhand.In  those cases, the Federal Court and,	 subsequently,	thisCourt acted upon the report of the High Court containing itsorders	in  respect of an advocate on its rolls	 and  passedorders after giving an opportunity to the advocate concernedto  show cause why disciplinary action should not  be  takenagainst	 him in view of the findings of the High Court.	  Inthose cases, it was not considered necessary to have a freshinquiry	 made and the Court being satisfied that the  ordersof the High Court were well-founded in fact and law,  passedsimilar	 orders.  Curiously enough, the first  precedent  ofthe Federal Court, In the matter of an Advocate (1), relatesto the case of the appellant himself, at an earlier stage ofhis  career  as an advocate.  The Court	 consisting  of	 SirMaurice	 Gwyer, Chief Justice, Sir S. Varadachariar and	 SirTorick Ameer Ali JJ. dealt with his case.  The appellant hadbeen  charged  in respect of events which  had	happened  in1934-35, and was convicted in 1941, at the Madras  Sessions,of  only  one out of 5 counts, of an attempt to	 cheat.	  Heserved	a  sentence  of 18  months'  rigorous  imprisonment.Then,  the  matter  was dealt with by the High	Court  on  areport	made by the Tribunal of the Madras Bar	Council,  tothe effect that the(1) Case No. XVI of 1942, decided on March 23, 1943.1421106appellant's  conviction	 involved moral	 turpitude,  and  in1942, the Madras High Court ordered him to be struck off theroll  of  advocates of that Court.  In the course  of  theirshort	order,	the'  Federal  Court  made   the   followingobservations:" Having regard to the decision of the High Court of  Madrasin  a  matter which may be regarded as analogous (In  re  anAdvocate  1.  L. R. 46 Mad. p. 903) we have not	 dealt	withthat  before us as if an order made against  the  respondentmust follow automatically from the result of the proceedingsin  Madras,  and we have heard the respondent at  length  insupport of the written memorandum submitted.As  a  result of such hearing however we are  not  satisfiedthat circumstances exist so exceptional or extraordinary  asto make it either possible or proper for us to disregard theverdict	 or the subsequent order of the High  Court  againstthe respondent..................In these circumstances we have to hold that grounds have notbeen  adduced  sufficient to prevent an order  removing	 therespondent  from the rolls of this Court following upon	 theorder  made by the High Court of Madras, and such  an  ordermust now be made." -The  appellant ceased to be on the roll of advocates of	 theMadras	High Court and of the Federal Court as a  result  ofthe  Federal Court order passed, as quoted above, some	timein 1943.  In 1948, the appellant moved the Federal Court forreinstatement  as an advocate of that Court in view  of	 thefact  that he had been re-instated by the Madras High  Courtby  its order dated March 22, 1948.  That Court	 had  passedits orders on affidavits and certificates of good  characterduring the period the advocate stood struck off the roll  ofadvocates.   A Judge of the Federal Court, during  the	longvacation,  passed  orders reinstating the  appellant  as  anadvocate  of that Court, following the orders passed by	 theMadras	High  Court.   That is how  the	 appellant  was	 re-introduced  to the profession and within about two years  ofhis  reinstatement,  the complainant fell a  victim  to	 theappellant's  dishonest	and  fraudulent	 conduct,  as  foundabove.1107In  another case, In re: D. A.	Shanmugasundaraswami(1),  anAdvocate, coming again from the Madras High Court, a similarproceeding  followed.  One D. A.  Shanmughasundaraswami,  anadvocate  of the Madras High Court, had been dealt  with  bythat Court for c professional misconduct on several  counts.After  the necessary inquiry and report by the	Tribunal  ofthe  Bar  Council, the High Court directed his name  to	 be,struck	off  the roll of advocates of that Court.   As	thatadvocate  was  also borne on the roll of  advocates  of	 theFederal Court, summons under Order IV, rule 29, of the rulesof  that Court was issued, and the Federal Court  consistingof Kania, Chief Justice, Fazl Ali, Patanjali Sastri, Mahajanand  B.	 K. Mukherjee JJ. by their order dated	January	 24,ordered	 that his name should be similarly removed from	 theroll  of advocates of the Federal Court.   Their  Lordships,relying	  upon	the  precedent	referred  to  in  the	lastparagraph, passed their order in these terms:"  Having regard to a precedent of this Court, we  did	,lotconsider that on the footing of the order made by the MadrasHigh Court an order of removal of his name from the Rolls ofthis  Court  should automatically  follow.   He	 accordinglyargued his case before us in detail.After  hearing	the respondent at great length,	 we  see  noreason	to  differ from the conclusion of  the	Madras	HighCourt.	We are not satisfied that circumstances exist  whichmake  either  possible	or proper for us  to  disregard	 theverdict	 or  the subsequent order of the Madras	 High  Courtagainst	 the  respondent.  Under the circumstances  we	holdthat  no sufficient grounds have been adduced to prevent  anorder removing the respondent from the Rolls of this  Court,following upon the order made by the Madras High Court,	 andsuch an order is therefore made."This Court dealt with the case of an advocate of the  BombayHigh  Court, who was also enrolled as a senior	advocate  ofthis  Court.   That  case is In the matter of  Mr.   'G',  aSenior Advocate of the Supreme Court(2 ). After(1)  Misc.  Case No. X of 1948, decided on January 24, 1949.(2)  (1955] 1 S.C.R. 490.1108the advocate had been suspended from practice by the  BombayHigh Court for six months, and that order was brought to thenotice of this Court, this Court dealt with the matter underOrder IV, rule 30, and	passed orders similar to that passedby the Bombay High Court.Another case from the Bombay High Court, dealt with by	thisCourt  is In the matter of '-D', an Advocate of the  SupremeCourt(1).   When  the matter was dealt with by	this  Court,under  Order IV, rule 30 of the Rules, the  advocate,  afterhaving	been  suspended from practice for a  period  of	 oneyear, by the Bombay High Court, prayed that a fresh  inquirymight  be  held into the matter.  This Court  rejected	thatprayer	of  the advocate, and proceeded upon the  record  asmade by the High Court through the Bar Council.	 This  Courtagreed	with the view taken by the Bombay High	Court  abouthis  misconduct	 in connection with a  criminal	 trial,	 andsuspended  the	advocate  from practice	 for  a	 period	 co-terminus  with	the period of suspension fixed by  the	HighCourt.On  a  review of the aforesaid precedents, it may  be  takenthat  the  following principles have been laid down  by	 theFederal Court and by this Court when dealing with a  summonsunder  rule 30 of Order IV of Supreme Court Rules,  or,	 itsequivalent rule of the Federal Court:-(1)  Any  order	 by  a High Court, by  way  of	disciplinaryaction	against an advocate borne on the roll  of  advocatesboth of a High Court and of this Court, is not automaticallyfollowed by a similar order by this Court;(2)  this  Court  need not start a fresh inquiry by  way  ofrecording   evidence   over  again  against   the   advocateconcerned, for professional misconduct;(3)  it	 is enough that this Court should generally  examinethe  record  prepared by the Bar Council of  a	High  Court,under  the directions of that Court, on the basis  of  whichthe High Court has passed its orders; and take into  accountthe findings of the High Court;(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 1006.1109(4)  of	 course,  this	Court  has  to	grant  a  reasonableopportunity  to	 the  advocate	concerned,  of	being  heardagainst	 the action proposed to be taken against  him  underits disciplinary jurisdiction;(5)  it	 is open to this Court, in an appropriate,  case  topermit	the advocate to adduce such additional evidences  itthinks fit;(6)  this  Court,  after hearing the advocate or  his  legaladviser	 and,  if necessary, the Attorney-General,  or	suchother  advocate as may be appointed to place the  view-pointof the legal profession generally, or of the complainant  orthe aggrieved party if he desires to be heard in the matter,may  pass such order as it may deem fit and proper,  in	 itsjudicial discretion.It  may	 be  noted that in the instant case,  at  the  finalhearing, we did not find it necessary to adjourn the hearingto issue notice to the Attorney-General, nor was any requestmade in that behalf.In  view  of these precedents, as also in view of  the	factthat  ordinarily it is necessary that a person, in order  tobe  entitled  to be enrolled as an advocate of	the  SupremeCourt,	should be borne on the roll of advocates of  a	HighCourt, proceedings in this Court, under rule 30 of Order IV,of the Rules, should normally be treated as a natural sequelto the proceedings in the High Court under the Bar  CouncilsAct.   If one is not a fit and proper person to continue  onthe roll of advocates of a High Court, a fortiori he  cannotbe  permitted to continue on the roll of advocates  of	thisCourt.	 It is a great privilege to be borne on the roll  ofadvocates  of  the Supreme Court, and only such	 persons  asshow  a high degree of integrity of character should  be  soenrolled.  Any person, who has been found by the High  Courtto  have  fallen  from that high standard  of  integrity  ofcharacter  required of an advocate of a court,	must  sufferthe consequences of his name being removed from the roll  ofadvocates  of  this  Court.  As already	 indicated,  it	 wasrather	unfortunate  that the appellant,  after	 being	oncestruck	off the roll of advocates of the Madras	 High  Courtand  of the Federal Court, should have been reinstated,	 andthus been ennobled to deal1110with  clients  who have to trust their legal  advisers	withmoneys in the course of their fiduciary relationship.  Theseprotracted  proceedings against the appellant leading up  tothe  summons under rule 30 of Order IV of the Supreme  CourtRules have ended in the removal of the appellant's name fromthe  roll of advocates of the High Court and of this  Court,but only after the complainant has lost his good money.	  Itis  clear, therefore, that the continuance of the  appellantin  the	 legal	profession  is	a  serious  menace  to	 theprofession itself, which requires a high degree of integrityof  character  and  sense of  responsibility  in  which	 theappellant has been found singularly lacking.In  view  of  these  considerations,  the  appeal  must	  bedismissed  and the rule made absolute with the	result	thatthe  appellant's name shall stand removed from the  roll  ofadvocates of this Court.Appeal dismissed.