PETITIONER:STATE OF U. P.	Vs.RESPONDENT:DEOMAN UPADHYAYADATE OF JUDGMENT:06/05/1960BENCH:SHAH, J.C.BENCH:SHAH, J.C.DAS, S.K.KAPUR, J.L.SUBBARAO, K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1125 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1961 SC1808	 (13) F	    1963 SC 222	 (50) E	    1963 SC1074	 (11) D	    1963 SC1113	 (11) RF	    1966 SC 119	 (11,21) R	    1972 SC  66	 (13) RF	    1973 SC1461	 (1197) RF	    1976 SC1750	 (4) RF	    1980 SC1382	 (51) RF	    1980 SC1632	 (19)ACT:Criminal  Law--Evidence--Statement  made to  Police  officerleading	 to discovery--Statute making  statement  admissiblewhen made by person in custody and inadmissible when made byperson	not in custody--Whether offends equality before	 thelaw--" Persons in custody "--" Person accused of an  offence"--Connotation of--Circumstantial evidence--Indian  EvidenceAct,  1872 (1 of 1872), s. 27--Code of	Criminal  Procedure,1898 (Act 5 of 1898), s. 162(2)--Constitution of India, Art.14.HEADNOTE:The respondent was tried for the murder of one Sukhdei earlyon  the morning of June 19, 1958.  The evidence against	 himwas  entirely circumstantial and consisted of the  followingfacts  :  (i) on the 18th evening there was  an	 altercationbetween	 the respondent and Sukhdei during which he  slappedher and threatened that he would smash her face; (ii) on the18th  evening  the respondent borrowed a  gandasa  from	 oneMahesh	;  (iii) before day break on the 19th  he  was	seengoing  towards and taking a bath in the village	 tank;	(iv)the respondent absconded immediately thereafter; (v) he	 wasarrested on the 20th and on 21st he offered to hand over thegandasa	 which	he  said  he had  thrown  in  the  tank	 andthereafter he took the gandasa out of the tank, and (vi) thegandasa	 was  found  to be stained with	 human	blood.	 TheSessions  judge	 accepted  this	 evidence,  found  that	 theirresistible conclusion was that the respondent had  commit-ted  the murder and sentenced him to death.  On	 appeal	 theHigh  Court  held  that S. 27 of  the  Indian  Evidence	 Actoffended  Art.	14 of the Constitution and was	void  as  itcreated	 an unjustifiable discrimination between persons  incustody	 whose	statement  leading  to	discovery  was	madeadmissible  and persons not in custody whose  statement	 wasnot  made  admissible even if it led to a  discovery  ;	 andconsequently  they held sub-s. (2) of s. 162 of the Code  ofCriminal  Procedure in so far as it related to S. 27 of	 theIndian Evidence Act also to be void.  As a result, the	HighCourt ruled out the statement of the respondent that he	 hadthrown	the  gandasa  in the  tank  as	inadmissible.	Theyfurther held that the story that the appellant had  borrowedthe  gandasa  from Mahesh was unreliable.  The rest  of	 theevidence in the view of the High Court was not sufficient toprove  the  guilt  of the respondent  and  accordingly	theyacquitted him.Held,  (per S. K. Das, J. L. Kapur, Hidayatullah  and  Shah,JJ.,  Subba Rao, J., dissenting), that S. 27 of	 the  IndianEvidence  Act  and  sub-s.  (2) of s. 162  of  the  Code  ofCriminal15Procedure  did	not offend Art. 14 of the  Constitution	 andwere not void.Article	 14 does not provide that all laws must	 be  uniformand  universally applicable; it merely forbids	improper  orinvidious  distinctions by conferring rights  or  privilegesupon  a class of persons arbitrarily selected from out of  alarger	group who ,are similarly circumstanced, and  betweenwhom  and others not so favoured, no distinction  reasonablyjustifying  different treatment exists.	 Between persons  incustody and persons not in custody the legislature has	madea  real	 distinction by enacting  distinct  rules  regardingadmissibility  of statements confessional or otherwise	madeby them.In  considering	 the constitutionality of a statute  on	 theground	whether it has given equal treatment to all  personssimilarly  circumstanced  it has to be remembered  that	 thelegislature  has  to  deal  with  practical  problems;	 thequestion  is  not to be judged by merely  enumerating  othertheoretically possible situations to which the statute mighthave been but has not applied.	A doctrinaire approach is tobe avoided.  Persons not in custody making statements to thepolice	leading	 to discovery of facts were a  possible	 butrare  class.   A  person who  approaches  a  police  officerinvestigating  an  offence and offers  to  give	 informationleading	 to the discovery of an incriminating fact  must  bedeemed	to have surrendered himself to the police and to  bein  custody  within  the  meaning of S.	 27  of	 the  IndianEvidence  Act.	A law which makes provision for cases  wherethe  need is most felt cannot be struck down  because  thereare  other  instances to which it might have  been  applied.The object of the legislation being both to punish offendersproved	to  be	guilty and to protect  persons	who  may  becompelled to make confessional statements, the provisions ofS. 27 are reasonable as they make information admissible  onthe  ground  that the discovery of a fact  pursuant  to	 thestatement made by a person in custody is a guarantee of	 thetruth of that statement.Legal  Remembrancer v. Lalit Mohan Singh Roy, (1921)  I.L.R.49  Cal.  167 and Santokhi Beldar v.  King  Emperor,  (1933)I.L.R. 12 Pat. 241, referred to.West Coast Hotel Company  v. Parrish, (1937) 300 U. S.	379:81 L. Ed. 703, Weaver v. Palmer Bros.  Co., (1926) 270 U. S.402:  70 L. Ed. 654 and Miller v. Wilson, (1915) 236  U.  S.373: 59 L.     Ed. 628, relied on.The expression " a person accused of any offence " in s.  27is  merely descriptive of the persons against whom  evidenceis  sought  to be led in a criminal proceeding.	 It  is	 notnecessary  that	 the person should have been accused  of  anoffence	 at the time when he made the statement	 leading  tothe discovery of a fact.The statement made by the respondent that he will recover16the gandasa which he has thrown in the tank is admissible inevidence  and  may  be used  against  him.   This  statementtogether    with the other facts proved, even if the fact ofthe respondent borrowing gandasa from Mahesh Were  excluded,established a chain which was consistent only with his guiltand inconsistent    with his innocence.Pakala	Narayan Swami v. Emperor, (1939) L. R. 66  I.A.	 66,applied.Per Subba Rao, J.-Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act	 wasvoid  as  it  violated Art. 14	of  the	 Constitution.	 Theclassification of accused persons for the purpose of  makingtheir confessions admissible into those in custody and thosenot   in  custody  was	not  based  upon  any	intelligibledifferentia  nor was it reasonable.  It was a  pure  surmisethat the legislature may have thought that the confession ofan accused in custody leading to a recovery was a substitutefor an extra-judicial confession that he might have made  ifhe  was not in custody.	 It was not correct that the  numberof  accused not in custody making statements or	 confessionsleading	 to  a discovery was not appreciable and  that	theyneed   not  be	provided  for.	 Till  the  year  1872	 thelegislature  treated  accused in custody and  those  not  incustody	 in  a	similar	 manner	 but  in  that	year  by  anaccidental omission of the word " or " it made a distinctionbetween them.  It was, therefore, not right to speculate andhold  that  the legislature consciously	 excluded  from	 theoperation of S. 27 accused not in custody on the ground thatthey  were few in number.  Besides, the authorities did	 notjustify classification on the basis of numbers or enable thelegislature to include the many and exclude the few from theoperation  of  law  without  there  being  an	intelligibledifferentia  between them.  The taking into custody did	 notamount to the giving of the statutory or implied caution anddid  not  provide  any	intelligible  differentia  for	 theclassification.In re Mottai Thevar, A.I.R. 1952 Mad. 586, Durlav  Namasudrav.  King  Emperor,  (1932) I.L.R. 59  Cal.  1040,  DeonandanDusadh	v. King Emperor, (1928) I.L.R. 7 Pat. 411,  SantokhiBeldar	v. King Emperor, (1933) I.L.R. 12 Pat. 241,  BharosaRamdayal  v. Emperor, A.I.R. 1941 Nag. 86 and jalla  v.	 Em-peror, A.I.R. 1931 Lah. 278, referred to.Sakhawat  Ali V. The State of Orissa, [1955] 1 S.C.R.  1004,distinguished.John  A. Watson v. State of Maryland, (1910) 218 U. S.	173:54 L. Ed. 987, Jeffrey Manufacturing Co. v. Harry 0.  Blagg,(1915)	235  U.	 S.  571: 59 L. Ed.  364,  St.	Louis,	IronMountain & Southern Railway Co. v. State of Arkansas, (1916)240  U. S. 518: 60 L. Ed. 776, Weaver v. Palmer Bros.	Co.,(1926)	270  U. S. 402: 70 L. Ed. 654 and West	Coast  HotelCompany	 v.  Parrish, (1937) 300 U. S. 379: 81 L.  Ed.	703,considered.17Per  Hidayatullah, J.-There was always a  clear	 distinctionbetween	 a  person  not accused of an  offence	nor  in	 thecustody of a police officer and one who was.  Section 27 hasbeen  bodily taken from the English law.  In both  the	lawsthere  was  greater  solicitude	 for a	person	who  made  astatement  when	 the danger in which he stood had  not	beenbrought home to him than for one who knew of the danger.  InEnglish law, the caution gave him the warning, and in  Indiathe  fact  of  his being in custody took the  place  of	 thecaution.  The law thus classified accused persons into	two:(i)  those  who	 had  the danger brought  home	to  them  bydetention  on  a charge and (ii) those who were	 free.	 Theprotection  given to these two classes was  different.	 Thelaw  was  concerned  with  seeing  fairplay,  and  this	 wasachieved  by insisting that an unguarded statement  was	 notadmissible.   The need for the caution was there,  and	thiscaution	 was forcefully brought home to an accused  when  hewas  in police custody.	 There was ample protection  to	 theaccused in custody as only that portion of his statement wasmade  admissible  which	 resulted  in  the  discovery  of  amaterial fact otherwise unknown to the police.Case law discussed.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE  JURISDICTION Criminal Appeal No.  1  of1960.Appeal from the judgment and order dated September 11, 1959,of the Allahabad High Court in Criminal Appeal No. 325/1959.H.   N. Sanyal, Additional Solicitor-General of India, G.   C.Mathur and C. P. Lal, for the appellant.H.   J.	 Umrigar,  O.  P. Rana and  D.	Goburdhan,  for	 therespondent.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, H. N.  Sanyal,Additional Solicitor-General of India, B. R. L. Iyengar	 andT.  M.	Sen, for the Intervener	 (The  Attorney-General	 forIndia).1960.  May 6. The Judgment of S. K. Das, J. L. Kapur and  J.C.  Shah, JJ., was delivered by Shah, J. K. Subba  Rao,	 J.,and M. Hidayatullah, J., delivered separate Judgments.SHAH  J.-The  Civil and Sessions Judge,	 Gyanpur,  convictedDeoman Upadhyaya-respondent to this appeal-of  intentionallycausing the death of one Sukhdei in the early hours of	June19, 1958, at318village	 Anandadih, District Varanasi, and sentenced him  todeath subject to confirmation by the High Court.  The  orderof  conviction and sentence was set aside by the High  Courtof   Judicature	 at  Allahabad.	  Against  that	  order	  ofacquittal,  the State of Uttar Pradesh has appealed to	thiscourt with a certificate granted by the High Court.Deoman was married to one Dulari.  Dulari's parents had diedin  her	 infancy  and she was brought  up  by  Sukhdei,	 hercousin.	 Sukhdei gifted certain agricultural lands inheritedby  her	 from  her father to Dulari.  The  lands  gifted  toDulari and the lands of Sukhdei were cultivated by  Mahabir,uncle	of   Deoman.   Mahabir	and  Deoman   entered	intonegotiations for the sale of some of these lands situated atvillage	 Anandadih,  but  Sukhdei refused to  agree  to	 theproposed sale.	According to the case of the prosecution, inthe  evening  of  June 18, 1958, there	was  an	 altercationbetween	 Deoman and Sukhdei.  Deoman slapped Sukhdei on	 herface and threatened that he would smash her face.  Early  inthe morning of June 19, Deoman made a murderous assault witha  gandasa (which was borrowed by him from one Mahesh)	uponSukhdei who was sleeping in the courtyard near her house andkilled her on the spot and thereafter, he threw the  gandasainto the village tank, washed himself and absconded from thevillage.  He was arrested in the afternoon of the 20th	nearthe  village Manapur.  On June 21, he offered to  hand	overthe  gandasa  which he said, he had thrown  in	the  villagetank,  and in the presence of the investigating officer	 andcertain	 witnesses,  he waded into the tank and took  out  agandasa, which, on examination by the Serologist, was  foundto be stained with human blood.Deoman was tried for the murder of Sukhdei before the  Courtof session at Gyanpur.	The trial Judge, on a  considerationof  the evidence led by the prosecution, held the  followingfacts proved:-(a)  In	 the  evening  of  June	 18,  1958,  there  was	  analtercation  between  Sukhdei and Deoman over  the  proposedtransfer of lands in village Anandadih and19and in the course of the altercation, Deoman slapped Sukhdeiand threatened her that he would smash her mouth " (face).(b)  -In the evening of June 18, 1958, Deoman borrowed agandasa (Ex. 1) from one Mahesh.(c)  Before daybreak on June 19, 1958, Deoman was seen by  awitness	 for the prosecution hurrying towards the  tank	 andshortly	 thereafter fie was seen by another  witness  takinghis bath in the tank.(d)  Deomap absconded immediately thereafter and was not  tobe found at Anandadih on June 19, 1958.(e)  That  on June 21, 1958, Deoman, in the presence of	 theinvestigating  officer	and two witnesses, offered  to	handover  the gandasa which he said he had thrown into  a  tank,and  thereafter he led the officer and the witnesses to	 thetank at Anandadih and in their presence waded into the	tankand  fetched  the gandasa (Ex. 1) out of  the  water.	Thisgandasa was found by the Chemical Examiner and Serologist tobe stained with human blood.In the view of the Sessions Judge, on the facts found, the 'only irresistible conclusion' was that Deoman had  committedthe murder of Sukhdei early in the morning of June 19, 1958,at  Anandadih.	 He observed, " The conduct of	the  accused(Deoman)  as appearing from the movements disclosed by	him,when taken in conjunction with the recovery at his  instanceof  the gandasa stained with human blood, which gandasa	 hadbeen  borrowed	only  in the evening  preceding	 the  brutalhacking of Sukhdei, leaves no room for doubt that Deoman andno  other  person was responsible for  this  calculated	 andcold-blooded murder".  At the hearing' of the reference madeby the court of Session for confirmation of sentence and theappeal	filed by Deoman before the High Court at  Allahabad,it  was	 contended  that the evidence  that  Deoman  made  astatement  before the police and two witnesses on  June	 21,1958, that he had thrown the gandasa into the tank and	thathe  would take it out and hand it over, was inadmissible  inevidence, because s. 27 of the Indian Evidence Act which20rendered such a statement admissible, discriminated  betweenpersons	 in  custody  and persons not  in  custody  and	 wastherefore void as violative of Art. 14 of the  Constitution.The Division Bench hearing the appeal referred the followingtwo questions for opinion of a Full Bench of the court:-1.   Whether s. 27 of the Indian Evidence Act is void  becauseit offends against the provisions of Art. 14 of	  theConstitution ? and2.   Whether  sub-s. (2) of s. 162 of the Code	of  CriminalProcedure  in  so far as it relates to s. 27 of	 the  IndianEvidence Act is void ?The reference was heard by M. C. Desai, B. Mukherjee and  A.P.  Srivastava,	 JJ.   Mukherjee, J.,  and  Srivastava,	 J.,opined	on  the first question, that " s. 27 of	 the  IndianEvidence Act creates an unjustifiable discrimination between" persons in custody " and "  persons out of custody  ", andin  that it offends against Art. 14 of the Constitution	 andis  unenforceable in its present form ", and on	 the  secondquestion, they held that sub-s. (2) of s. 162 of the Code ofCriminal Procedure " in so far as it relates to s. 27 of theIndian	Evidence Act is void ". Desai, J., answered the	 twoquestions in the negative.The reference for confirmation of the death sentence and theappeal filed by Deoman were then heared by another  DivisionBench.	 In the light of the opinion of the Full Bench,	 thelearned	 Judges	 excluded from consideration  the  statementmade by Deoman in the presence of the police officer and thewitnesses  offering  to point out the gandasa which  he	 hadthrown	in the village tank.  They held that the story	thatDeoman	had  borrowed a gandasa in the evening of  June	 18,1958,  from  Mahesh  was  unreliable.	They  accepted	 theconclusions of the Sessions Judge on points (a), (c) and (d)and  also  on  point  (e) in so far as	it  related  to	 theproduction  by Deoman in the presence of the police  officerand  search witnesses of the gandasa after wading  into	 thetank, but as in their view, the evidence was insufficient toprove  the  guilt of Deoman beyond  reasonable	doubt,	theyacquitted him of the offence of murder.	 At the instance  ofthe21State of Uttar Pradesh, the High Court granted a certificatethat  "	 having	 regard to the	general	 importance  of	 thequestion  as to the constitutional validity of s. 27 of	 theIndian	Evidence Act", the case was fit for appeal  to	thiscourt.Section	 27 of the Indian Evidence Act is one of a group  ofsections  relating  to	the relevancy of  certain  forms  ofadmissions made by persons accused of offences.	 Sections 24to  30	of the Act deal with admissibility  of	confessions,i.e.,  of statements made by a person stating or  suggestingthat  he  has committed a crime.  By s. 24,  in	 a  criminalproceeding against a person, a confession made by him is in-admissible if it appears to the court to have been caused byinducement, threat or promise having reference to the chargeand proceeding from a person in authority.  By s. 25,  thereis  an absolute ban against proof at the trial of  a  personaccused	 of  an offence, of a confession made  to  a  policeofficer.  The ban which is partial under s. 24 and  completeunder  s.  25  applies equally whether	or  not	 the  personagainst	 whom  evidence is sought to be led  in	 a  criminaltrial  was at the time of making the confession in  custody.For  the ban to be effective the person need not  have	beenaccused	 of  an offence when he made  the  confession.	 Theexpression, " accused person " in s. 24 and the expression "a person accused of any offence " have the same connotation,and  describe the person against whom evidence is sought  tobe  led	 in a criminal proceeding.  As	observed  in  PakalaNarayan	 Swamy v. Emperor(1), by the Judicial  Committee  ofthe  Privy  Council, " s. 25 covers a confession made  to  apolice	officer	 before	 any  investigation  has  begun	  orotherwise  not	in  the course of an  investigation  ".	 Theadjectival  clause " accused of any offence "  is  thereforedescriptive  of	 the  person  against  whom  a	confessionalstatement made by him is declared not provable, and does notpredicate a condition of that person ,at the time of  makingthe statement for the applicability of the ban.	 Section  26of the Indian Evidence Act by its first paragraph provides "No confession(1)  (1939) L.R. 66 I.A. 66.22made  by any person whilst he is in the custody of a  policeofficer,  unless it be made in the immediate prosence  of  aMagistrate, shall be proved as against a per. son accused ofany offence." By this section, a confession made by a personwho is in custody is declared not provable unless it is madein  the immediate presence of a Magistrate.  Whereas  s.  25prohibits  proof  .of  a confession made by a  person  to  apolice	officer	 whether or not at the time  of	 making	 theconfession,  he was in custody, s. 26 prohibits proof  of  aconfession by a person in custody made to any person  unlessthe  confession	 is  made in the  immediate  presence  of  aMagistrate.  Section 27 which is in form of a proviso states"  Provided that, when any fact is deposed to as  discoveredin consequence of information received from a person accusedof any offence, in the custody of a police officer, so	muchof  such information, whether it amounts to a confession  ornot,  as relates distinctly to the fact thereby	 discovered,may  be proved." The expression, " accused of any offence  "in  s.	27, as in s. 25, is also descriptive of	 the  personconcerned,  i.e.,  against  a person who is  accused  of  anoffence,  s. 27 renders provable certain statements made  byhim  while be was in the custody of a police officer.	Sec-tion  27  is founded on the principle that even	 though	 theevidence  relating to confessional or other statements	madeby  a  person,	whilst	he is in the  custody  of  a  policeofficer, is tainted and therefore inadmissible, if the truthof the information given by him is assured by the  discoveryof  a  fact,  it  may be presumed to  be  untainted  and  istherefore  declared  provable  in so far  as  it  distinctlyrelates	 to the fact thereby discovered.  Even though s.  27is  in the form of a proviso to s. 26, the two	sections  donot   necessarily  deal	 with  the  evidence  of  the	samecharacter.  The ban imposed by s. 26 is against the proof ofconfessional  statements.  Section 27 is concerned with	 theproof  of information whether it amounts to a confession  ornot, which leads to discovery of facts.	 By s. 27, even if afact is deposed to as discovered in consequence of  informa-tion  received,	 only  that  much  of  the  information	  isadmissible as distinctly relates to the fact discovered.23By s. 26, a confession made in the presence of a  Magistrateis made provable in its entirety.Section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure also enacts  arule of evidence.  This section in so far as it is  materialfor  purposes  of  this case, prohibits, but not  so  as  toaffect	the  admissibility  of	information  to	 the  extentpermissible  under  s.	27  of	the  Evidence  Act,  use  ofstatements  by any person to a police officer in the  courseof  an	investigation  under Ch.  XIV of the  Code,  in	 anyenquiry	 or  trial in which such person is charged  for	 anyoffence, under investigation at the time when the  statementwas made.On  an analysis of ss. 24 to 27 of the Indian Evidence	Act,and s. 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the  followingmaterial propositions emerge:-(a)  Whether a person is in custody or outside, a confessionmade  by him to a police officer or the making of  which  isprocured  by inducement, threat or promise having  referenceto  the charge against him and proceeding from a  person  inauthority, is not provable against him in any proceeding  inwhich he is charged with the commission of an offence.(b)  A	confession  made  by a person whilst he	 is  in	 thecustody of a police officer to a person other than a  policeofficer	 is  not  provable in a proceeding in  which  he  ischarged with the commission of an offence unless it is	madein the immediate presence of a Magistrate. (c) That part  ofthe  information given by a person whilst in police  custodywhether the information is confessional or otherwise,  whichdistinctly  relates  to the fact thereby discovered  but  nomore,  is  provable in a proceeding in which he	 is  chargedwith the commission of an offence.(d)  A	statement whether it amounts to a confession or	 notmade  by  a  person when he is not in  custody,	 to  anotherperson such latter person not being a .police officer may beproved if it is otherwise relevant.(e) A statement made by a person to a police officer in	 thecourse	of an investigation of an offence under Ch.  XIV  ofthe Code of Criminal Procedure, cannot except to the  extentpermitted by s. 27 of the24Indian Evidence Act, be used for any purpose at any  enquiryor  trial in respect of any offence under  investigation  atthe  time  when	 the  statement was  made  in  which  he  isconcerned as a person accused of an offence.A  confession made by a person not in custody  is  thereforeadmissible in evidence against him in a criminal  proceedingunless	it is procured in the manner described in s. 24,  oris made to a police officer.  A statement made by a  person,if  it is not confessional, is provable in  all	 proceedingsunless	it is made to a police officer in the course  of  aninvestigation,	and the proceeding in which it is sought  tobe  proved  is	one for the trial of  that  person  for	 theoffence	 under	investigation when he made  that  statement.Whereas	 information given by a person in custody is to	 theextent	to  which it distinctly relates to  a  fact  therebydiscovered,  is	 made  provable, by s. 162 of  the  Code  ofCriminal  Procedure, such information given by a person	 notin  custody  to	 a  police officer  in	the  course  of	 theinvestigation  of  an offence is not  provable.	  This	dis-tinction may appear to be somewhat paradoxical.	 Sections 25and  26	 were  enacted	not because  the  law  presumed	 thestatements  to be untrue, but having regard to	the  taintednature	of the source of the evidence, prohibited them	frombeing  received in evidence.  It is manifest that the  classof  persons  who needed protection most where those  in	 thecustody	 of  the police and persons not in  the	 custody  ofpolice	did not need the same degree of protection.  But  bythe  combined operation of s. 27 of the Evidence Act and  s.162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the admissibility  inevidence  against  a person in a criminal  proceeding  of  astatement made to a police officer leading to the  discoveryof  a  fact depends for its determination  on  the  questionwhether	 he  was  in  custody at  the  time  of	 making	 thestatement.  It is provable if he was in custody at the	timewhen he made it, otherwise it is not.Are  persons in custody, by this distinction deprived  of  "equality before the law, or the equal protection of the laws" within the meaning of Art. 14 of the25Constitution   ?  By  the  equal  protection  of  the	lawsguaranteed  by	Art.  14 'of the  Constitution,	 it  is	 notpredicated  that  all laws must be uniform  and	 universallyapplicable;   the  guarantee  merely  forbids  improper	  orinvidious  distinctions by conferring rights  or  privilegesupon  a class of persons arbitrarily selected from out of  alarger	group who are similarly circumstanced,	and  betweenwhom  and others not so favoured, no distinction  reasonablyjustifying  different treatment exists: it does not  give  aguarantee  of the same or similar treatment to	all  personswithout	 reference to the relevant differences.	  The  Statehas  a wide discretion in the selection of  classes  amongstpersons, things or transactions for purposes of legislation.Between	 persons  in  custody and persons  not	in  custody,distinction  has evidently been made by the Evidence Act  insome matters and they are differently treated.	Persons	 whowere,  at the time when the statements sought to  be  provedwere  made,  in	 custody have been  given  in  some  mattersgreater	 protection  compared  to persons  not	in  custody.Confessional  or  other statements made by  persons  not  incustody may be admitted in evidence, unless such  statementsfall   within  ss.  24	and  25	 whereas  all	confessionalstatements  made by persons in custody except those  in	 thepresence of a Magistrate are not provable.  This distinctionbetween	 persons in custody and persons not in	custody,  inthe  context  of admissibility of statements  made  by	themconcerning  the offence charged cannot be called  arbitrary,artificial  or	evasive:  the legislature has  made  a	realdistinction  between  these  two classes,  and	has  enacteddistinct  rules	 about	admissibility  of  statements	con-fessional or otherwise made by them.There  is nothing in the Evidence Act which precludes  proofof  information	 given	by a person not	 in  custody,  whichrelates to the facts thereby discovered; it is by virtue  ofthe ban imposed by s. 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,that  a statement made to a police officer in the course  ofthe  investigation of an offence under Ch.  XIV by a  personnot in police426custody	 at  the time it was made even if it  leads  to	 thediscovery of a fact is not provable against him at the trialfor  that  offence.   But the distinction which	 it  may  beremembered does not proceed on the same lines as under	the.Evidence Act, arising in the matter of admissibility of suchstatements  made to the police officer in the course  of  aninvestigation between persons in custody and persons not  incustody,  has little practical significance.  When a  personnot in custody approaches a police officer investigating  anoffence	 and  offers  to give  information  leading  to	 thediscovery  of a fact, having a bearing on the  charge  whichmay  be made against him he may appropriately be  deemed  tohave  surrendered himself to the police.  Section 46 of	 theCode   of  Criminal  Procedure	does  not  contemplate	 anyformality  before  a  person  can be said  to  be  taken  incustody:  submission to the custody by word or action  by  aperson in sufficient.  A person directly giving to a  policeofficer	 by word of mouth information which may be  used  asevidence  against  him,	 may be	 deemed	 to  have  submittedhimself	 to the custody " of the police officer	 within	 themeaning	 of  s.	 27  of	 the  Indian  Evidence	Act:   LegalRemembrancer  v. Lalit Mohan 'Singh (1), Santokhi Beldar  v.King  Emperor (2).  Exceptional cases may certainly be	ima-gined  in  which  a  person  may  give	information  withoutpresenting   himself   before  a  police  officer   who	  isinvestigating  an  offence.  For instance, he  may  write  aletter and give such information or may send a telephonic orother  message	to the police officer.	But  in	 consideringwhether a statute is unconstitutional on the ground that thelaw  has  given	 equal treatment to  all  persons  similarlycircumstanced,	it must be remembered that  the	 legislaturehas to deal with practical problems; the question is not  tobe judged by merely enumerating other theoretically possiblesituations  to which the statute might have been but is	 notapplied.   As  has often been said  in	considering  whetherthere has been a denial of the equal protection of the laws,a  doctrinaire approach is to be avoided.  A person who	 hascommitted an offence, but who is not in(1) (1921) I.L.R. 49 Cal, 167.(2) (1933) I.L.R. 12 Pat. 241.27custody. normally would not without surrendering himself  tothe police give information voluntarily to a police  officerinvestigating the commission of that offence leading to	 thediscovery  of material evidence supporting a charge  againsthim  for  the  commission of the  offence.   The  Parliamentenacts laws to deal with practical problems which are likelyto arise in the affairs of men.	 Theoretical possibility  ofan  offender  not  in custody  because	the  police  officerinvestigating  the offence has not been able to get  at	 anyevidence  against  him	giving	information  to	 the  policeofficer	 without surrendering himself to the  police,  whichmay  lead  to  the discovery of an  important  fact  by	 thepolice,	 cannot be ruled out; but such an  occurrence  wouldindeed	be rare.  Our attention has not been invited to	 anycase  in which it was even alleged that information  leadingto  the	 discovery of a fact which may be used	in  evidenceagainst a person was given by him to a police officer in thecourse	 of   investigation  without  such   person   havingsurrendered  himself  Cases like Deonandan  Dasadh  v.	KingEmperor	 (1),  Santokhi Beldar v. King Emperor	(2),  DurlavNamasudra  v.  Emperor (3), In re Mottai Thevar (4),  In  rePeria  Guruswami (5 ), Bharosa Ramdayal v. Emperor  (6)	 andJalla  v. Emperor (7) and others to which our attention	 wasinvited are all cases in which the accused persons who	madestatements leading to discovery of facts were either in	 theactual	custody	 of  police  officers  or  had	 surrenderedthemselves  to the police at the time of, or  before  makingthe statements attributed to them, and do not illustrate theexistence of a real and substantial class of persons not  incustody giving information to police officers in the  courseof investigation leading to discovery of facts which may  beused as evidence against those persons.In   that premise and considered in the background that personsin custody " and " persons not in custody    do not stand onthe same footing nor require(1)  (1928) I.L.R. 7 Pat. 411.(3)  (1932) I.L.R. 59 Cal. 1040.(5)  I.L.R. 1942 Mad. 77.(2)  (1933) I.L.R. 12 Pat. 241.(4)  A.I.R. 1952 Mad. 586.(6)  I.L.R. 1940 Nag. 679.(7)  A.I.R. 1931 Lah. 278.28identical protection, is the mere theoretical possibility ofsome  degree  of inequality of the protection  of  the	lawsrelating to the admissibility of evidence between persons incustody	 and  persons not in custody by itself a  ground  ofstriking down a salutary provision of the law of evidence ?Article 14 of the Constitution of India is adopted from	 thelast   clause  of  s.  1  of  the  14th	 Amendment  of	 theConstitution  of  the United States of America, and  it	 mayreasonably be assumed that our Constituent Assembly when  itenshrined  the guarantee of equal protection of the laws  inour  Constitution,  was aware of its  content  delimited  byjudicial interpretation in the United States of America.  Inconsidering  the authorities of the superior courts  in	 theUnited	States,	 we  would not	therefore  be  incorporatingprinciples  foreign  to our Constitution, or  be  proceedingupon   the  slippery  ground  of  apparent   similarity	  ofexpressions or concepts in an alien jurisprudence  developedby  a society whose approach to similar problems on  accountof  historical or other reasons differs from ours.  In	WestCoast  Hotel  Company v. Parrish (1), in  dealing  with	 thecontent	 of  the guarantee of the equal	 protection  of	 thelaws, Hughes, C. J., observed at p. 400:-"  This	 court	has frequently	held  that  the	 legislativeauthority,  acting within its proper field, is not bound  toextend	its regulation to all cases which it might  possiblyreach.	The legislature "is free to recognise degree of harmand  it	 may confine its restrictions to  those	 classes  ofcases  where the need is deemed to be clearest ". If  "	 thelaw  presumably hits the evil where it is most felt,  it  isnot  to be overthrown because there are other  instances  towhich  it  might  have	been  applied  ".  There  is  no   "doctrinaire  requirement  " that the legislation  should  becouched in all embracing terms ".Holmes,	 J.,  in  Weaver v. Palmer Bros.  Co.  (2),  in	 hisdissenting judgment observed :-" A classification is not to be pronounced arbitrary(1)  (1937) 300 U.S. 379: 81 L. Ed. 703.(2)  (1926) 270 U.S. 402 : 70 L. Ed. 654.29because it goes on practical grounds and attacks only  thoseobjects that exhibit or foster an evil on a large scale.  Itis not required to be mathematically precise and to  embraceevery  case that theoretically is capable of doing the	sameharm.	" if the law presumably hits the evil, where  it  ismost  felt,  it is not to be overthrown	 because  there	 areother instances to which it might have been applied." Millerv. Wilson(1).McKenna, J., in Health and Milligan Mfg.  Co. v. Worst	(2),observed:"  Classification must have relation to the purpose  of	 thelegislature.   But logical appropriateness of the  inclusionor  exclusion  of  objects or persons  is  not	required.  Aclassification may not be merely arbitrary, but	 necessarilythere  must be great freedom of discretion, even  though  itresult	  in	'illadvised,   unequal,	   and	  oppressivelegislation.......   Exact  wisdom  and	 nice  adaption	  ofremedies  are  not required by the 14th Amendment,  nor	 thecrudeness  nor the impolicy nor even the injustice of  statelaws redressed by it."Sections  25  and 26 are manifestly intended to	 hit  at  anevil,  viz.,  to guard against the danger  of  receiving  inevidence  testimony  from tainted sources  about  statementsmade  by  persons accused of offences.	But  these  sectionsform  part of a statute which codifies the law	relating  tothe  relevancy	of evidence and proof of facts	in  judicialproceedings.  The State is as much concerned with  punishingoffenders who may be proved guilty of committing offences asit is concerned with protecting persons who may be compelledto   give  confessional	 statements.   If  s.	27   rendersinformation admissible on the ground that the discovery of afact pursuant to a statement made by a person in custody  isa  guarantee of the truth of the statement made by him,	 andthe  legislature  has  chosen  to make	on  that  ground  anexception  to the rule prohibiting proof of such  statement,that  rule is not to be deemed unconstitutional, because  ofthe   possibility  of  abnormal	 instances  to	 which	 thelegislature might have, but has not extended the rule.	 Theprinciple of admitting(1)  (1915) 236 U.S. 373; 59 L. Ed. 628.(2)  (1907) 207 U.S. 338; 52 L. Ed. 236.30evidence  of statements made by a person giving	 informationleading	 to  the  discovery of facts which may	be  used  inevidence  against  him is manifestly reasonable.   The	factthat the principle is restricted to persons in custody	willDot  by	 itself	 be a ground for holding that  there  is  anattempted   hostile  discrimination  because  the  rule	  ofadmissibility of evidence is not extended to a possible, butan uncommon or abnormal class of cases.Counsel	 for the defence contended that in any event  Deomanwas not at the time when he made the statement attributed tohim,  accused of any offence and on that account also  apartfrom   the  constitutional  plea,  the	statement  was	 notprovable.   This contention is unsound.	 As we have  alreadyobserved,  the	expression  " accused of any  offence  "  isdescriptive of the person against whom evidence relating  toinformation  alleged to be given by him is made provable  bys.  27 of the Evidence Act.  It does not predicate a  formalaccusation  against him at the time of making the  statementsought to be proved, as a condition of its applicability.In that view, the High Court was in error in holding that s.27 of the Indian Evidence Act and s. 162, sub-s. (2), of theCode  of  Criminal  Procedure in so far as  '  that  sectionrelates	 to  s. 27 of the Indian Evidence Act' are  void  asoffending Art. 14 of the Constitution.The  High  Court  acquitted Deoran on the  ground  that	 hisstatement  which  led  to the discovery of  the	 gandasa  isinadmissible.	As  we differ from the High  Court  on	thatquestion,  we  must proceed to review the  evidence  in	 thelight  of that statement in so far as it distinctly  relatesto the fact thereby discovered being admissible.The  evidence discloses that Deoman and his uncle,  Mahabir,were  anxious to dispose of the property of Sukhdei  and  ofDulari and Sukhdei obstructed such disposal.  In the eveningof  June 18,1958, there was an altercation  between  Sukhdeiand  Deoman over the proposed disposal of the  property,  inthe presence of witnesses, Shobhnath and Mahesh, and  Deomanslapped Sukhdei and threatened that he would " smash her31mouth  ". In the morning of June 19, 1958, the dead body  ofSukhdei	 with several incised injuries caused by  a  gandasawas  found lying in her court-yard.  Deoman was seen in	 thevillage	 on that day early in the morning  hurrying  towardsthe  village tank and I taking a bath ', but  thereafter  heabsconded  from the village and was not found till  sometimein  the	 afternoon of the 20th.	 In his examination  by	 thecourt, be has stated that he had left Anandadih early in themorning	 of  June  19,	on business  and  that	he  was	 notabsconding,  but  there is no evidence in  support  of	thatplea.	The  evidence  discloses that  in  the	presence  ofwitnesses,  Shobbnath and Raj Balladur Singh,  Deoman  wadedinto the village tank and " fetched the gandasa " which	 waslying  hidden in the mud at the bottom of the tank and	thatgandasa	 was  found by the Serologist on examination  to  bestained	 with human blood.  The High Court has	agreed	withthe  findings  of  the Trial Court on  this  evidence.	 Theevidence  that Deoman had in the presence of the  witnesses,Shobhnath  and	Raj Bahadur Singh offered to point  out	 thegandasa	 which	he  said he had thrown	into  the  tank	 wasaccepted  by  the  Trial Court and the High  Court  has	 notdisagreed  with	 that  view of the Trial  Court,  though  itdiffered from the Trial Court as to its admissibility.	 Theevidence  relating  to	the borrowing of  the  gandasa	fromwitness, Mahesh, in the evening of June 18, 1958, by  Deomanhas not been accepted by the High Court and according to thesettled	 practice  of  this  Court,  that  evidence  may  bediscarded.  It was urged that Deoman would not have murderedSukhdei, because by murdering her, he stood to gain  nothingas  the	 properties  which belonged  to	 Sukhdei  could	 notdevolve	 upon  his  wife  Dulari in  the  normal  course  ofinheritance.   But the quarrels between Deoman	and  Sukhdeiarose  not because the former was claiming that	 Dulari	 washeir  presumptive to Sukhdei's estate, but  because  Sukhdeiresisted  attempts  on	Deoman's  part	to  dispose  of	 theproperty belonging to her and to Dulari.  The evidence	thatDeoman	slapped Sukhdei and threatened her that he  would  "smash her face " coupled with the circumstances that on	 themorning of the murder of32Sukhdei,  Deoman  absconded from the village  after  washinghimself	 in  the village tank and after his  arrest  made  astatement  in the presence of witnesses that he	 had  thrownthe  gandasa  in  the village tank and	produced  the  same,establishes  a strong chain of circumstances leading to	 theirresistible  inference that Deoman killed Sukhdei early  inthe morning of June 19, 1958.  The learned trial Judge	heldon  the evidence that Deoman was proved to be the  offender.That  conclusion is, in our view, not weakened	because	 theevidence  relating  to	the borrowing of  the  gandasa	fromwitness	 Mahesh in the evening of June 18, 1958, may not  beused against him.  The High, Court was of the view that	 themere  fetching of the gandasa from its hiding place did	 notestablish that Deoman himself had put it in the tank, and aninference  could legitimately be raised that  somebody	elsehad  placed it in the tank, or that Deoman had seen  someoneplacing	 that gandasa in the tank or that someone  had	toldhim  about the gandasa lying in the tank.  But	for  reasonsalready set out the information given by Deoman is  provablein  so	far  as it distinctly relates to  the  fact  therebydiscovered: and his statement that he had thrown the gandasain  the tank is information which distinctly relates to	 thediscovery  of  the  gandasa.  Discovery from  its  place  ofhiding,	 at  the instance of Deoman of the  gandasa  stainedwith  human blood in the light of the admission by him	thathe had thrown it in the tank in which it was found thereforeacquires  significance, and destroys the theories  suggestedby the High Court.The  quarrel  between  Deoman and  Sukhdei  and	 the  threatuttered	 by  him that he would smash Sukhdei's	"    mouth "(face)	and  his absconding immediately after the  death  ofSukhdei	 by violence, lend very strong support to  the	casefor  the prosecution.  The evidence, it is true,  is  purelycircumstantial but the facts proved establish a chain  whichis  consistent	only  with  his	 guilt	and  not  with	 hisinnocence.  In our opinion therefore the Sessions Judge	 wasright  in  his	view that Deoman had  caused  the  death  ofSukhdei by striking her with the gandasa produced before thecourt.33On the evidence of the medical officer who examined the deadbody  of  Sukhdei, there can be no doubt  that	the  offencecommitted  by  accused Deoman is one of murder.	  The  TrialJudge convicted the accused of the offence of murder and  inour view, he was right in so doing.  Counsel for Deoman	 hascontended  that in any event, the sentence of  death  shouldnot be imposed upon his client.	 But the offence appears  tohave  been brutal, conceived and executed with	deliberationand not in a moment of passion, upon a defenseless old womanwho  was the benefactress of his wife.	The assault  with  adangerous  weapon  was	made only  because  the	 unfortunatevictim	did not agree to the sale of property  belonging  toher  and to her foster child.  Having  carefully  consideredthe  circumstances  in which the offence is proved  to	havebeen  committed, we do not think that any case is  made	 outfor not restoring the order imposing the death sentence.  Weaccordingly set aside the order passed by the High Court andrestore the order passed by the Court of Session.It  may	 be observed that the sentence of  death  cannot  beexecuted unless it is confirmed by the High Court.  The HighCourt has not confirmed the sentence, but in exercise of ourpowers	under Art. 136 of the Constitution, we may pass	 thesame order of confirmation of sentence as the High Court is,by  the Code of Criminal Procedure, competent to pass.	 'Weaccordingly confirm the sentence of death.SUBBA  RAO  J.-I  have had the advantage  of,  perusing	 thejudgment  of  my  learned  brother, Shah,  J.  I  regret  myinability  to  agree  with his reasoning  or  conclusion  inrespect of the application of Art. 14 of the Constitution tothe facts of the case.	The facts have been fully stated  inthe  judgment  of my learned brother and they  need  not  berestated here.Article 14 of the Constitution reads:" The State shall not deny to any person equality before thelaw  or equal protection of the laws within the	 territoriesof India."534Das, C. J., in Basheshar Nath v. The Commissioner of Income-tax(1)	explains  the scope of the equality  clause  in	 thefollowing terms:"The  underlying  object of this Article is  undoubtedly  tosecure	to  all	 persons,  citizens  or	 non-citizens,	 theequality  of  status and of opportunity referred to  in	 theglorious  preamble  of our Constitution.   It  combines	 theEnglish doctrine of the rule of law and the equal protectionclause	of  the	 14th  Amendment  to  the  American  FederalConstitution which enjoins that no State shall " deny to anyperson	within its jurisdiction the equal protection of	 thelaws  ". There can, therefore, be no doubt or  dispute	thatthis Article is founded on a sound public policy  recognisedand valued in all civilised States...................... Thecommand	 of  the Article is directed to the  State  and	 thereality	 of the obligation thus imposed on the State is	 themeasure	 of the fundamental right which every person  withinthe territory of India is to enjoy."This subject has been so frequently and recently before thisCourt  as  not to require an extensive	consideration.	 Thedoctrine  of equality may be briefly stated as follows:	 Allpersons	 are  equal before the law is fundamental  of  everycivilised  constitution.  Equality before law is a  negativeconcept;  equal protection of laws is a positive  one.	 Theformer declares that every one is equal before law, that  noone  can claim special privileges and that all	classes	 areequally	 subjected  to the ordinary law of the	land  ;	 thelatter	postulates an equal protection of all alike  in	 thesame  situation and under like circumstances.  No  discrimi-nation can be made either in the privileges conferred or  inthe  liabilities imposed.  But these propositions  conceivedin  the interests of the public, if logically stretched	 toofar,  may  not achieve the high purpose behind them.   In  asociety	 of  unequal  basic  structure,	 it  is	 well	nighimpossible to make laws suitable in their application to allthe  persons alike.  So, a reasonable classification is	 notonly permitted but is necessary if society should  progress.But  such a classification cannot be arbitrary but  must  bebased(1)  [1959] Supp. (1) S.C.R. 528.35upon differences pertinent to the subject in respect of	 andthe purpose for which it is made.Das, C. J., in Shri Ram Krishna Dalmia v. Shri Justice S. R.Tendolkar  (1) culled out the rules of construction  of	 theequality   clause  in  the  context  of	 the  principle	  ofclassification from the various decisions of this Court	 andthose  of the Supreme Court of the United States of  Americaand  restated the settled law in the form of  the  followingpropositions at pp. 297298:"  (a)	that  a law may be  constitutional  even  though  itrelates	 to  a	single individual if,  on  account  of	somespecial	 circumstances or reasons applicable to him and	 notapplicable to others, that single individual may be  treatedas a class by himself;(b)  that  there  is always a presumption in favour  of	 theconstitutionality of an enactment and the burden is upon himwho  attacks  it  to  show  that  there	 has  been  a  cleartransgression of the constitutional principles;(c)  that   it	must  be  presumed  that   the	 legislatureunderstands  and correctly appreciates the need of  its	 ownpeople, that its laws are directed to problems made manifestby  experience	and that its discriminations  are  based  onadequate grounds;(d)  that  the legislature is free to recognise	 degrees  ofharm  and may confine its restrictions to those cases  wherethe need is deemed to be the clearest;(e)  that   in	 order	to  sustain   the   presumption	  ofconstitutionality  the	court may  take	 into  considerationmatters	 of common knowledge, matters of common report,	 thehistory	 of  the times and may assume every state  of  factswhich can be conceived existing at the time of	legislation;and(f)  that  while  good faith and knowledge of  the  existingconditions on the part of a legislature are to be  presumed,if  there  is  nothing	on  the	 face  of  the	law  or	 thesurrounding circumstances brought to the notice of the courton  which the classification may reasonably be	regarded  asbased,	the  presumption  of  constitutionality	 cannot	  becarried to the extent of always(1)  [1959] S.C.R. 279.36holding	 that  there must be some  undisclosed	and  unknownreasons	 for subjecting certain individuals or	corporationsto hostile or discriminating legislation:"In  view  of  this  clear statement  of	 law,  it  would  beunnecessary to cover the ground over again except to add thefollowing  caution  administered  by Brewer,  J.,  in  Gulf,Colorada and Santa Fe Rly.  Co. v. Ellis (1):" While good faith and a knowledge of existing conditions onthe  part of a Legislature is to be presumed, yet  to  carrythat presumption to the extent of always holding that  theremust 'be some undisclosed and unknown reason for  subjectingcertain	  individuals	or  Corporations  to   hostile	 anddiscriminating Legislation is to make the protecting clausesof  the	 14th Amendment a mere rope of sand,  in  no  mannerrestraining state action."It  will  be seen from the said rules that  a  weightage  isgiven  to  the State as against an individual  and  a  heavyburden is thrown on the latter to establish his	 fundamentalright.	If the caution administered by Brewer, J., in  Gulf,Colorada and Santa Fe Rly.  Co. v. Ellis (1) and restated byDas, C. J., in Shri Ram Krishna Dalmia's case (2) were to beignored,  the burden upon a citizen would be  an  impossibleone,  the  rules  intended  to	elucidate  the	doctrine  ofequality would tend to exhaust the right itself, and, in thewords of Brewer, J., the said concept becomes " a mere	ropeof sand, in no manner restraining state action ". While	 theCourt may be justified to assume certain facts to sustain  areasonable classification, it is not permissible to rest itsdecision  on some undisclosed and unknown reasons;  in	thatevent,	a Court would not be enforcing a  fundamental  rightbut  would  be	finding	 out  some  excuse  to	support	 theinfringement of that right.It will be convenient at the outset to refer to the relevantsections.   Under s. 25 of the Evidence Act,  no  confessionmade to a police-officer shall be proved as against a personaccused	 of an offence.	 Section 26 says that no  confessionmade  by any person while he is in the custody of a  police-officer,  unless it is made in the immediate presence  of  a'Magistrate, shall be(1) [1897] 165 U.S. 150; 41 L. Ed. 666.(2) [1959] S.C.R. 279.37proved as against such person.	Section 27, which is in	 theform of a proviso, enacts that " when any fact is deposed toas discovered in consequence of information received from  aperson	accused of any offence, in the custody of a  police-officer, so much of such information, whether it amounts  toa  confession  or  not, as relates distinctly  to  the	factthereby discovered, may be proved." Section 162 of the	Codeof  Criminal Procedure lays down that no statement  made  byany  person  to	 a  police-officer  in	the  course  of	  aninvestigation  shall be used for any purpose at any  inquiryor  trial in respect of any offence under  investigation  atthe  time when such' statement was made.  Sub-s. (2)  of  s.162  of the said Code which was amended by s. 2 of the	Codeof  Criminal Procedure (Second Amendment) Act, 1941 (Act  XVof  1941), provides that the said section shall	 not  affectthe provisions of s. 27 of the Indian Evidence Act.A  combined  effect of the said provisions relevant  to	 thepresent	 enquiry may be stated thus: (1) No confession	madeto a police-officer by an accused can be proved against him;(2)  no	 statement made by any person  to  a  police-officerduring	investigation  can be used for any  purpose  at	 anyinquiry or trial; (3) a confession made by any person  whilehe  is in the police custody to whomsoever made, such  as  afellow-prisoner,  a  doctor  or a  visitor,  can  be  provedagainst	 him if it is made in the presence of a	 Magistrate;and (4) if a person accused of an offence is in the  custodyof  a police-officer, any information given by him,  whetherit is a statement or a confession, so much of it as  relatesdistinctly  to	the fact thereby discovered may	 be  proved.Shortly	 stated,  the  section divided	the  accused  makingconfessions or statements before the police into two groups:(i)  accused not in custody of the police, and (ii)  accusedwho  are in the custody of the police.	In the case  of	 theformer	there is a general bar against the admissibility  ofany  confessions or statements made by them from being	usedas evidence against them; in the case of the latter, so muchof  such statements or confessions as relates distinctly  tothe fact thereby discovered is made admissible.38Shorn  of  the verbiage, let us look at the  result  broughtabout  by the combined application of s. 27 of the  EvidenceAct  and s. 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.  A and  Bstabbed	 C  with knives and hid them in a  specified  place.The evidence against both of them is circumstantial.  One ofthe  pieces of circumstantial evidence is that both of	themgave  information to the police that each of them stabbed  Cwith  a knife and hid it in the said place.  They showed  tothe  police the place where they had hidden the	 knives	 andbrought	 them  out and handed them over to the	police;	 andboth  the knives were stained with human  blood.   Excludingthis  piece  of	 evidence, other  pieces  of  circumstantialevidence do not form a complete chain.	If it was  excluded,both  the accused would be acquitted; if included,  both  ofthem would be convicted for murder.  But A, when he gave theinformation was in the custody of police, but B was not	 so.The result is that on the same evidence A would be convictedfor  murder  but B would be acquitted : one would  lose	 hislife  or  liberty  and the other would be  set	free.	Thisillustration establishes that prima facie the provisions  ofs.  27	of  the	 Evidence  Act	accord	unequal	 and  uneventreatment to persons under like circumstances.Learned	 Additional Solicitor General tries to	efface	thisapparent  vice	in  the sections by attempting	to  forge  areasonable basis to sustain the different treatment given tothe  two groups of accused.  His argument may be  summarizedthus: Accused are put in two categories, namely, (1) accusedin  custody  ; and (2) accused not in  custody.	  There	 areintelligible differentia between these two categories  whichhave reasonable relation to the objects sought to be  achie-ved by the legislature in enacting the said provisions.	 Thelegislature has two objects, viz., (i) to make available  tothe Court important evidence in the nature of confessions toenable	it to ascertain the truth ; and (ii) to protect	 theaccused in the interest of justice against coercive  methodsthat may be adopted by the police.  The differences  betweenthe  two  categories relating to the objects  sought  to  beachieved are the following:39(a)while  extra-judicial  confessions  in  the	case  of  anaccused not in custody are admissible in evidence, they	 areexcluded  from evidence in the case of accused	in  custody;(b)  compared with the number of accused in the	 custody  ofthe police who make confessions or give information to them,the number of accused not in custody giving such informationor  making  confessions would be insignificant; (c)  in	 thecase of confession to a police-officer by an accused not  incustody, no caution is given to him before the confession isrecorded, whereas in the case of an accused in custody,	 thefactum of custody itself amounts to a caution to the accusedand  puts  him	on  his guard; and  (d)	 protection  by	 theimposition   of	 a  condition  for  the	  admissibility	  ofconfessions is necessary in the case of accused in custody ;whereas	 no  such protection for accused not in	 custody  iscalled	for.  Because of these differences between  the	 twocategories,  the argument proceeds, the classification	madeby  the legislature is justified and takes the present	caseout of the operation of Art. 14 the Constitution.I shall now analyse each of the alleged differences  betweenthe  two  categories of accused to  ascertain  whether	theyafford	 a   reasonable	  and	factual	  basis	  for	 theclassification.Re.  (a):  Whether  the	 accused is in	custody	 or  not  incustody,  the prosecution is not prevented  from  collectingthe  necessary	evidence  to bring home	 the  guilt  to	 theaccused.  Indeed, as it often happens, if the accused is notin  custody  and if he happens to be an	 influential  personthere	is  a  greater	likelihood  of	his  retarding	 andobstructing the progress of investigation and the collectionof  evidence.	Nor all the extra-judicial  confessions	 areexcluded during the trial after a person is put in  custody.The  extra-judicial confession made by an accused before  heis  arrested  or after he is released on bail  is  certainlyrelevant evidence to the case.	Even after a person is takeninto  custody  by a police-officer,  nothing  prevents	thatperson	from  making a confession to a third-party  and	 theonly limitation imposed by s. 26 of the Evidence Act is thathe shall make it only in the presence of a40Magistrate.   The confession made before a Magistrate  aftercompliance with all the formalities prescribed has certainlygreater probative force than that made before outsiders.  Onthe  other  hand,  though extra.  judicial  confessions	 arerelevant  evidence, they are received by Courts	 with  greatcaution.   That	 apart,	 it  is	 a  pure  surmise  that	 thelegislature  should have thought that the confession  of  anaccused	 in  custody to a police-officer  with	a  conditionattached  would	 be  a	substitute  for	 an   extra-judicialconfession that he might have made if he was free.   Broadlyspeaking,  therefore,  there  is no  justification  for	 thesuggestion  that the prosecution is in a better position  inthe matter of establishing its case when the accused is	 outof  custody  than  when he is in  custody.   Moreover,	thiscircumstance  has not been relied upon by the State  in	 theHigh Court but is relied upon for the first time by  learnedcounsel	 during	 his  arguments.  In my view,  there  is  nopractical  difference  at all in the  matter  of  collectingevidence between the two categories of persons and that	 thealleged difference cannot reasonablysustain a classification.Re. (b): The second circumstance relied upon by the  learnedcounsel leads us to realms of fancy and imagination.  It  issaid  that  the	 number of persons  not	 in  custody  makingconfessions  to	 the police is insignificant  compared	withthose  in custody and, therefore, the legislature  may	haveleft  that category out of consideration.  We are  asked  todraw  from our experience and accept the said argument.	  Nosuch   basis   was  suggested  in  the	High   Court.	 Theconstitutional	validity  has  to be  tested  on  the  factsexisting  at  the time the section or  its  predecessor	 wasenacted	 but  not  on  the  consequences  flowing  from	 itsoperation.   When  a statement made by accused	not  in	 thecustody	 of  police  is	 statutorily  made  inadmissible  inevidence,  how can it be expected that many  such  instanceswill  fall within the ken of Courts.  If the ban be  removedfor a short time it will be realized how many such instanceswill  be  pouring  in  in the same  way	 as  confessions  ofadmissible  type  have become the common feature  of  almostevery criminal case involving grave41offence.   That apart, it is also not correct to state	thatsuch confessions are not brought to the notice of Courts.In re Mottai Thevar (1) deals with a ease where the  accusedimmediately  after killing the deceased goes to	 the  policestation and makes a clear breast of the offence.  In  DurlavNamasudra v. King Emperor (2) the information received	froman accused not in the custody of a police-officer which	 ledto  the discovery of the dead-body was sought to be  put  inevidence.   Before a division bench of the Patna High  Courtin  Deonandan  Dusadh v. King Emperor  (3)  the	 informationgiven  to the Sub-Inspector of Police by a husband  who	 hadfatally assaulted his wife which led to the discovery of thecorpse	of the woman was sought to be admitted in  evidence.In  Santokhi Beldar v. King Emperor (4) a full bench of	 thePatna  High Court was considering whether one of the  piecesof  evidence  which led to the	discovery  of  blood-stainedknife  and other articles by the Sub-Inspector of Police  atthe  instance  of  the accused was  admissible	against	 theinformant.  A statement made by an accused to a	 responsiblepolice-officer voluntarily confessing that he had  committedan  act of crime was considered by a division bench  of	 theNagpur	High Court in Bharosa Ramdayal v. Emperor (5).	 TheLahore	High Court in Jalla v. Emperor (6) had before  it  astatement made by an accused to the police which led to	 thediscovery  of  the  dead-body.	In re  Peria  Guruswamy	 andAnother (7) is a decision of a division bench of the  MadrasHigh  Court  wherein  the question  of	admissibility  of  aconfession  made by a person to a police officer  before  hecame into his custody was considered.I  have cited the cases not for considering the validity  ofthe questions decided therein, namely, when a person can  bedescribed  as  an accused and when he can be  considered  tohave come into the custody of(1)  A.I.R. 1952 Mad. 586.(3)  (1928) I.L.R. 7 Pat. 411.(5)  A.I.R. 1941 Nag. 86.(2)  (1932) I.L.R- 59 Cal. 1040.(4)  (1933) I.L.R. 12 Pat. 241.(6)  A.I.R. 1931 Lah. 278.(7)  A.I.R. 1941 Mad. 765.42the  police, but only to controvert the argument  that	suchconfessions are in practice non-existent.  I have given onlythe representative decisions of various High Courts and I amsure  if  a  research  is made	further	 instances  will  beforthcoming.The historical background of s. 27 also does not warrant anyassumption  that  the  legislature  thought  that  cases  ofpersons	  not	in  custody  of	 a   police-officer   makingconfessions  before  him would be very few  and,  therefore,need  not  be provided for.  Sections 25, 26 and 27  of	 theIndian	Evidence Act correspond to ss. 148, 149 and  150  ofthe Code of Criminal Procedure of 1861.	 Section 148 of	 theCode  prohibited  the  use as  evidence	 of  confessions  oradmissions  of guilt made to a police-officer.	Section	 149provided:"  No  confession or admission of guilt made by	 any  personwhile he is in the custody of a police officer unless it  bemade in the immediate presence of a Magistrate shall be usedas evidence against such person."Section 150 stated"  When	 any  fact  is deposed to by  a	 police	 officer  asdiscovered  by	him in consequence of  information  receivedfrom  a	 person	 accused of any offence,  so  much  of	suchinformation, whether it amounts to a confession or admissionof  guilt  or  not,  as	 relates  distinctly  to  the	factdiscovered by it, may be received in evidence."Section	 150 of the Code of 1861 was amended by Act VIII  of1869 and the amended section read as follows:"  Provided that when any fact is deposed to in evidence  asdiscovered  in	consequence of information received  from  aperson accused of any offence, or in the custody of a policeofficer, so much of such information, whether it amounts  toa  confession  or ad. mission of guilt, or not,	 as  relatesdistinctly  to the fact thereby discovered, may be  receivedin evidence."It would be seen from the foregoing sections that there	 wasan absolute bar against the admissibility of confessions  oradmissions  made by any person to a polioe-officer and	thatthe said bar was partially43lifted in a case where such information, whether it amountedto a confession or admission of guilt, related distinctly tothe fact discovered.  The proviso introduced by Act VIII  of1869 was in pari materia with the provisions of s. 27 of theEvidence Act with the difference that in the earlier sectionthe phrase a person accused of any offence and the phrase inthe  custody  of  a police officer  were  connected  by	 thedisjunctive  ',or".  The result was that  no  discriminationwas  made  between  a person in custody or  out	 of  custodymaking a confession to a police-officer.  Section 150 of theCode  before  amendment	 also,	though	it  was	 couched  indifferent terms, was similar in effect.	 It follows that, atany   rate  till  the  year  1872,  the	 intention  of	 thelegislature  was  to  provide for all  confessions  made  bypersons	 to the police whether in custody of the  police  ornot.   Can it be said that in 1872 the legislature  excludedconfessions or admissions made by a person not in custody toa police-officer from the operation of s. 27 of the EvidenceAct  on the ground that such cases would be rare  ?  Nothinghas  been placed before us to indicate the reasons  for	 theomission  of the word " or " in s. 27 of the  Evidence	Act.If  that  be the intention of the legislature,	why  did  itenact  s. 25 of the Evidence Act imposing a general  ban  onthe  admissibility of all confessions made by accused  to  apolice-officer	?  Section 27 alone would  have	 served	 itspurpose.  On the other hand, s. 25 in express terms providesfor the genus, i.e., accused in general, and s. 27  providesfor the species out of the genus, namely, accused who are incustody.  A general ban is imposed by one section and it  islifted	only in favour of a section of accused of  the	sameclass.	 The omission appears to be rather by accident	thanby  design.   In  the  circumstances  it  is  not  right  tospeculate and hold that the legislature consciously excludedfrom  the  operation  of s. 27 of the  Act  accused  not  incustody on the ground that they were a few in number.During	the course of the arguments of the  learned  counselfor  the  respondent,  to the question put  from  the  Benchwhether an accused who makes a confession44of  his	 guilt to a police-officer would not by the  act  ofconfession  submit  himself  to	 his  custody,	the  learnedcounsel	 answered that the finding of the High Court was  inhis  favour, namely, that such a confession would not  bringabout that result.  Learned Additional Solicitor-General  inhis reply pursued this line of thought and contended that inthat  event  all possible cases of confession to  a  police-officer	 would	be covered by s. 27 of the  Indian  EvidenceAct.  The governing section is s. 46 of the Code of CriminalProcedure, which reads:" (1) In making an arrest the police-officer or other personmaking the same shall actually touch or confine the body  ofthe  person to be arrested, unless there be a submission  tothe custody by word or action.".................................................... .It  has	 been held in some decisions that "  when  a  personstates	that  he has done certain acts which  amount  to  anoffence,  he accuses himself of committing the offence,	 andif  he makes the statement to a police-officer, as such,  hesubmits to the custody of the officer within the meaning  ofcl.  (1)  of this section, and is then in the custody  of  apolice-officer	within	the meaning of s. 27 of	 the  IndianEvidence Act ". But other cases took a contrary view.  It isnot possible to state as a proposition of law what words  orwhat kind of action bring about submission to custody ; thatcan  only  be  decided on the facts of each  case.   It	 maydepend upon the nature of the information, the circumstancesunder, the manner in, and the object for, which it is  made,the attitude of the police-officer concerned and such  otherfacts.	 It  is not, therefore, possible to  predicate	thatevery  confession  of guilt or statement made to  a  police-officer	 automatically brings him into his custody.  I	findit very difficult to hold that in fact that there would	 notbe  any appreciable number of accused making confessions  orstatements outside the custody of a police-officer.   Givingfull  credit  to all the suggestions thrown out	 during	 theargument, the hard core of the matter remains, namely,	thatthe same class, i.e., accused making confessions45to  a police-officer, is divided into two groups-one may  belarger than the other-on the basis of a distinction  withoutdifference.Let me now consider whether there is any textual or  decidedauthority in support of the contention that the	 legislaturecan  exclude  from  the operation of s. 27  accused  not  incustody on the ground that they are a few in number.In  support  of	 this contention  learned  counsel  for	 theappellant cited a decision of this Court and some  decisionsof  the Supreme Court of the United States of America.	 Thedecision  of this Court relied upon is that in Sakhawat	 Aliv.  The	 State of Orissa (1).  In that case,  Bhagwati,	 J.,observed at p. 1010 thus:"The  simple answer to this contention is  that	 legislationenacted	 for  the  achievement of  a  particular  object  orpurpose	  need	not  be	 all  embracing.   It  is  for	 theLegislature  to determine what categories it  would  embracewithin	the scope of legislation and merely because  certaincategories  which would stand on the same footing  as  thosewhich are covered by the legislation are left out would	 notrender	legislation  which has been enacted  in	 any  mannerdiscriminatory	and  violative	of  the	 fundamental   rightguaranteed by article 14 of the Constitution."These observations, though at' first sight appear to supportthe appellant, if understood in the context of the facts andthe  points decided in that case, would not in any way	helphim.   By  the	provisions  of s.  16(1)(x)  of	 the  OrissaMunicipal Act, 1950, a paid legal practitioner on behalf  ofor against the Municipality is disqualified for election  toa  seat in such Municipality.  One of the  questions  raisedwas that the said section violates the fundamental right  ofthe appellant under Art. 14 of the Constitution.  The  basisof  that argument was that the classification  made  betweenlegal practitioners who are employed on payment on behalf ofthe  Municipality  or who act against the  Municipality	 andthose  legal practitioners who are not so employed  was	 notreasonable.   Bhagwati, J., speaking for the  Court,  statedthe well-settled(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1004.46principles of classification and gave reasons justifying theclassification	in  the contex of the object  sought  to  beachieved  thereby.  But it was further argued in  that	casethat  the  legislature should have also	 disqualified  otherpersons, like clients, as even in their case there would  beconflict   between  interest  and  duty.    Repelling	thatcontention   the   learned   Judge   made   the	   aforesaidobservations.	The said observations could only mean  that,if  there was intelligible differentia between	the  speciescarved	out of the genus for the purpose of legislation,  inthe  context of the object sought to be achieved,  the	merefact  that the legislation could have been extended to	someother	 persons    would   not	  make	  the	 legislationconstitutionally void.	On the other hand, if the passage beconstrued in the manner suggested by learned counsel for theappellant, it would be destructive of not only the principleof classification but also of the doctrine of equality.Nor  do	 the  American	decisions lay  down  any  such	wideproposition.  In John A. Watson v. State of Maryland (1) theconstitutional validity of Maryland Code of 1904 which	madeit a misdemeanor for any doctor to practise medicine withoutregistration,  was challenged.	The said Code exempted	fromits  operation physicians who were then practising  in	thatState  and  had so practised prior to January 1,  1898,	 andcould  prove that within one year of the said date they	 hadtreated	 at  least  twelve  persons  in	 their	professionalcapacity.   The	 Supreme  Court	 of  America  affirmed	 thevalidity   of	the   provision.    The	  reason   for	 theclassification is stated at p. 989 thus:" Dealing, as its followers do, with the lives and health ofthe  people,  and  requiring  for  its	successful  practicegeneral	 education  and	 technical skill, as  well  as	goodcharacter, it is obviously one of those vocations where	 thepower of the state may be exerted to see that only  properlyqualified  persons  shall  undertake  its  responsible	 anddifficult duties."Then the learned Judge proceeded to state"  Such exceptions proceeds upon the theory that  those	 whohave acceptably followed the profession in(1)  (1910) 218 U.S. 173; 54 L. Ed. 987.47the  community for a period of years may be assumed to	havethe qualifications which others are required to manifest  asa  result  of  an  examination before  a  board	 of  medicalexperts."The  classification  is, therefore, not sustained  upon	 anymathematical calculation but upon the circumstance that	 thegroups	excluded  were	experienced  doctors  whereas  thoseincluded  were	not.  In Jeffrey  Manufacturing	 Company  v.Harry O. Blagg (1) the Supreme Court of America justified  aclassification	under Ohio Workmen's Compensation Act  whichmade  a distinction between employers of shops with five  ormore employees and employers of shops having a lesser numberof  employees.	 Employers of the former class	had  to	 paycertain	 premiums for the purpose of establishing a fund  toprovide for compensation payable under the said Act.  If  anemployer  did not pay the premium, he would be	deprived  ofcertain	 defences  in  a  suit filed  by  his  employee	 forcompensation.	It  was contended that	this  discriminationoffended  the  provisions  of  the  14th  Amendment  of	 theConstitution.  Day, J., sustained the classification on	 theground	that  the  negligence of a fellow  servant  is	morelikely to be a cause of injury in the large  establishments,employing  many in their service, than in smaller ones.	  Itwas also conceded that the State legislature was not  guiltyof  arbitrary  classification.	It is,	therefore,  manifestthat  the  classification  was	not  based  upon   numericalstrength  but on the circumstance that the negligence  of  afellow	servant	 is  more likely to happen in  the  case  oflarger	establishments.	  The  passage at  p.  369  must  beunderstood in the light of the facts and the concession madein that case.  The passage runs thus:"..................  having regard to local  conditions,  ofwhich  they  (State legislature) must be  presumed  to	havebetter	knowledge than we can have, such regulation  coveredpractically  the whole field which needed it,  and  embracedall  the establishments of the state of any size,  and	thatthose  so  small  as to employ only four or  less  might  beregarded as a negligible(1)  (1915) 235 U.S. 571: 59 L. Ed. 364.48quantity,  and need not be assessed to make up the  guarantyfund,  or covered by the methods of compensation  which	 areprovided by this legislation."The  passage presupposes the existence of  a  classificationand  cannot,  in  my  view, support  the  argument  that  anarbitrary  classification shall be sustained on	 the  groundthat  the legislature in its wisdom covered the field  wherethe   protection,  in  its  view,  was	needed.	   Nor	 theobservations  of McKenna, J., in St. Louis, Iron Mountain  &Southern  Railway Company v. State of Arkansas	(1)  advancethe case of the appellant.  The learned Judge says at p. 779thus:" We have recognized the impossibility of legislation  beingall-comprehensive, and that there may be practical groupingsof  objects which will as a whole fairly present a class  ofitself,	 although there may be exceptions in which the	evilaimed at is deemed not so flagrant."In  that  case the State legislature made  an  exemption  infavour	of railways less than 100 miles in length  from	 theoperation  of the statute forbidding railway companies	withyards  or  terminals  in  cities of  the  state	 to  conductswitching  operations across public crossings in  cities  ofthe first or second class with a switching crew of less thanone  engineer,	a  fireman, a foreman,	and  three  helpers.McKenna,  J., sustained its constitutional validity  holdingthat the classification was not arbitrary.  The observationscited  do not in any way detract from  the  well-establisheddoctrine  of  classification,  but only lay  down  that	 thevalidity of a classification must be judged not on  abstracttheories   but	on  practical  considerations.	 Where	 thelegislature  prohibited the use of shoddy, new or old,	evenwhen  sterilized,  in the manufacture  of  comfortables	 forbeds, the Supreme Court of America held in Weaver v.  PalmerBrothers  Co. (2) that the prohibition was  not	 reasonable.It  was held that constitutional guaranties may not be	madeto yield to mere convenience.  Holmes, J., in his dissentingjudgment observed at p. 659 thus:(1)  (1916) 240 U. S. 518; 60 L. Ed. 776.(2)  (1926) 270 U. S. 402 ; 70L.  Ed. 654.49"A classification is not to be pronounced arbitrary  becauseit goes on practical grounds and attacks only those  objectsthat exhibit or foster an evil on a large scale.  It is	 notrequired  to be mathematically precise and to embrace  everycase that theoretically is capable of doing the same harm."Even this dissenting opinion says nothing more than that, inascertaining  the  reasonableness of  a	 classification,  itshall be tested on practical grounds and not on	 theoreticalconsiderations.	 In West Coast Hotel Company v. Parrish	 (1)a state statute authorized the fixing of reasonable  minimumwages  for women and minors by state authority, but did	 notextend it to men.  In that context, Hughes, C. J.,  observedat p. 713 thus:"  This	 Court	has frequently	held  that  the	 legislativeauthority,  acting within its proper field, is not bound  toextend	its regulation to all cases which it might  possiblyreach."These observations assume a valid classification and on thatbasis  state  that a legislation is not bound to  cover	 allwhich it might possibly reach.A neat summary of the  American law on the subject is  givenin  "  The Constitution of the United States of	 America  ",prepared  by the Legislative Reference Service,	 Library  ofCongress (1952 Edn.) at p. 1146 thus:"  The legislature is free to recognize degrees of  harm;  alaw  which hits the evil where it is most felt will  not  beoverthrown  because  there are other instances to  which  itmight  have been applied.  The State may do what it  can  toprevent what is deemed an evil and stop short of those casesin  which  the	harm to the few concerned  is  thought	lessimportant  than the harm to the public that would  ensue  ifthe   rules  laid  down	 were  made  mathematically   exact.Exceptions  of	specified classes will not  render  the	 lawunconstitutional unless there is no fair reason for the	 lawthat would not equally require its extension to the exceptedclasses."(1)  (1937) 300 U. S. 379; 81 L. Ed. 703.750These  observations  do	 not  out  across  the	doctrine  ofclassification, but only afford a practical basis to sustainit.   The prevalence of an evil in one field loudly  callingfor  urgent mitigation may distinguish it from	other  fieldwhere the evil is incipient.  So too, the deleterious effectof  a law on the public, if it is extended to  the  excludedgroup,	marks  it off from the	included  group.   Differentcombination of facts with other. wise apparently  indenticalgroups	may  so accentuate the difference as  to  sustain  aclassification.	 But if the argument of the learned counsel,namely,	 that the legislature can in its discretion  excludesome  and  include others from the operation of the  Act  inspite of their identical characteristics on the ground	onlyof  numbers  be	 accepted, it will  be	destructive  of	 thedoctrine of equality itself.Therefore,  the	 said and similar decisions do	not  justifyclassification	on  the	 basis	of  numbers  or	 enable	 thelegislature to include the many in and exclude the few	fromthe  operation	of law without there being  an	intelligibledifferentia  between  them.  Nor do they support  the  broadcontention that a legislature in its absolute discretion mayexclude some instances of identical characteristics from  anAct  on alleged practical considerations.  Even	 to  excludeone arbitrarily out of a class is to offend against Art.  14of the Constitution.Let  us	 now apply the said principles to the facts  of	 thepresent case.  Assuming for a moment that the ratio  betweenthe accused in the context of confessions is 1000 in custodyand  5	out  of custody, how could that	 be  conceivably  anintelligible ground for classification ? Assuming again thatthe  legislature thought such an exemption  is	unwarranted-that  such  cases  would not arise at all and  need  not  beprovided  for, could that be a reasonable assumption  havingregard to the historical background of S. 27 of the EvidenceAct  and  factual existence of such instances  disclosed  bydecisions  cited supra ? As I have already stated that	suchan  exemption  is an unwarranted flight into the  realms  ofimagination  in the teeth of expressed caution	administeredby Das, C. J., in Shri Ram51Krishna	 Dalmia's  Case	 (1) and by  Brewer,  J.,  in  Gulf,Colorada and Santa Fe Rly.  Co. v. Ellis (2).Re. (c): Nor can I find any intelligible differentia in	 thecaution	 alleged to be implied by accused being	 taken	intocustody.   The argument is-that under s. 163 of the Code  ofCriminal Procedure " no police-officer or other person shallprevent, by any caution or otherwise, any person from makingin  the course of any investigation under this	Chapter	 anystatement  which he may be disposed to make of his own	freewill," and as an accused is allowed to make any statement hechooses without his being placed on guard by timely caution,no statement made by him is permitted to be proved;  whereasby  the	 accused  being taken  into  custody,  the  argumentproceeds, by the said act itself the accused gets sufficientwarning that his statement may be used in evidence and	thatthis   difference  affords  a  sufficient  basis   for	 theclassification.	 I am not satisfied that taking into custodyamounts	 to a statutory or implied caution.  If that be	 thebasis for the distinction, there is no justification that anaccused	 once taken into custody but later released on	bailshould not be brought in within the meaning of s. 27 of	 theIndian Evidence Act.Re.  (d):  The	fourth	item  of  differentia  furnishes  anironical   commentary	on  the	 argument   advanced.	 Thecontention is that an accused in custody needs protection inthe  matter of his confession and therefore a  condition  isimposed before the confession is made admissible.  There  isan   obvious   fallacy	underlying   this   argument.	 Theclassification is made between accused not in custody makinga confession and accused in custody making a confession to apolice-officer: the former is inadmissible and the latter isadmissible subject to a condition.  The point raised is	 whyshould	there  be  this	 discrimination	 between  these	 twocategories of accused ? It is no answer to this question  topoint  out  that  in the case of an  accused  in  custody  acondition  has	been  imposed on the  admissibility  of	 hisconfession.   The  condition imposed may be to	some  extentaffording a guarantee for the truth(1) [1959] S.C.R. 279.(2) [1897] 165 U. S. 150; 41 Ed. 666.52of  the	 statement, but it does not efface  the	 clear	dis-tinction  made between the same class of  confessions.	 Thevice  lies  not	 in  the  condition  imposed,  but  in	 thedistinction  made  between  these  two	in  the	 matter	  ofadmissibility of a confession.	The distinction can be wipedout  only  when	 confessions made by all  accused  are	madeadmissible subject to the protective condition imposed.Not  only  the alleged differentia are not  intelligible  orgermane	 to the object sought to be achieved, the basis	 forthe  distinction is also extremely arbitrary.  There  is  noacceptable  reason  why a confession made by an	 accused  incustody to a police-officer is to be admitted when that madeby  an	accused	 not in custody has  to	 be  rejected.	 Thecondition  imposed  in the case of the former may,  to	someextent, soften the rigour of the rule, but it is  irrelevantin  considering	 the  question	of  reasonableness  of	 theclassification.	 Rankin, J., in Durlav Namasudra v.  Emperor(1)  in	 a strongly worded passage  criticised	the  anomalyunderlying s. 27 thus at p. 1045:"............	in  a  case  like  the	present	 where	 theconfession was made to the police, if the man was at libertyat  the	 time he was speaking, what he said  should  not  beadmitted in evidence even though something was discovered asa  result of it................... It cannot be admitted  inevidence,  because  the	 man was not in	 custody,  which  ofcourse	is  thoroughly	absurd.	 There might  be  reason  insaying	that, if a man is in custody, what he may have	saidcannot	be admitted; but there can be none at all in  sayingthat  it is inadmissible in evidence against him because  heis not in custody."In  the present case, the self-same paradox is sought to  besupported   as	 affording  a  reasonable  basis   for	 theclassification.The  only  solution  is for the	 legislature  to  amend	 thesection	 suitably  and not for this Court to  discover	someimaginary   ground  and	 sustain  the	classification.	  1,therefore,  hold  that s. 27 of the Indian Evidence  Act  isvoid as violative of Art. 14 of the Constitution.(1)  (1932) 59 Cal. 1040,53If  so,	 the  question is whether there	 is  any  scope	 forinterference  with the finding of the High Court.  The	HighCourt considered the entire evidence and found the followingcircumstances to have been proved in the case:(a)  "	that in the evening of June 18, 1958, there  was  analtercation  between Sukhdei and Deoman, accused,  over	 theproposed transfer of property in Anandadih, in the  presenceof Shobh Nath (P.  W. 5) and Mahesh (P.	 W. 7), and that  inthe  course  of	 this altercation  Deoman  slapped  her	 andthreatened that he would smash her mouth";(b)  " that at about dawn on June 19, 1958, the accused	  wasseen by Khusai (P.  W. 8) hurrying to wards a	  tank,	 andshortly	 afterwards  was  seen by Mata	Dihal  (P.   W.	 11)actually bathing in that tank, before it was fully light " ;(c)  " that the accused absconded immediately afterwards andwas not to be found at Anandadih on June 19, 1958 "; and(d)  " that on June 21, 1958, the accused in the presence ofthe investigating officer (P.  W. 14), Shobh Nath (P.  W. 5)and  Raj Bahadur Singh (P.  W. 6) stated that he could	handover  the " gandasa " which he had thrown into a tank;	thathe  was then taken to that tank and in the presence  of	 thesame  witnesses waded in and fetched the " gandasa " Ex.   Iout of the water; and that this " gandasa " was found by theChemical  Examiner and Serologist to be stained	 with  humanblood ".The  High Court held that the said circumstances are  by  nomeans sufficient to prove the guilt of the accused-appellantbeyond	reasonable doubt.  On that finding, the	 High  Courtgave  the benefit of doubt to the accused and acquitted	 himof the offence.	 The finding is purely one of fact and thereare no exceptional circumstances in the case to disturb	 thesame.In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed.HIDAYATULLAH  J.-The facts of the case have been  stated  infull  by Shah, J., in the judgment which he  has  delivered,and which I had the advantage of54reading.   I  have  also had the advantage  of	reading	 thejudgment  of  Subba Rao, J. I respectfully  agree  generallywith the conclusions and the reasons, therefor, of Shah,  J.I wish, however, to make a few observations.Section	 27 of the Indian Evidence Act is in the Chapter  onadmissions, and forms part of a group of sections which	 arenumbered 24 to 30, and these sections deal with	 confessionsof persons accused of an offence.  They have to be read withss. 46 and 161164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.Section 24 makes a confession irrelevant if the making of itappears	 to  the Court to have been  caused  by	 inducement,threat or promise having reference to the charge against theaccused person, from a person in authority and by which	 theaccused	 person hopes that he would gain some  advantage  oravoid  some  evil of a temporal nature in reference  to	 theproceedings against him.  Section 25 makes a confession to apolice officer inadmissible against a person accused of	 anyoffence.   Section  26	says that no confession	 made  by  aperson whilst he is in the custody of a police officer shallbe  proved unless it be made in the immediate presence of  aMagistrate.  Section 27 then provides:"  Provided that, when any fact is deposed to as  discoveredin consequence of information received from a person accusedof any offence, in the custody of a police officer, so	muchof  such information, whether it amounts to a confession  ornot,  as relates distinctly to the fact thereby	 discovered,may be proved."Section	 161  of the Code of Criminal Procedure	 empowers  apolice	officer of stated rank to examine orally any  personsupposed  to be acquainted with the facts and  circumstancesof  the case.  Such person is bound to answer all  questionsrelating  to the case but not questions which would  have  atendency to expose him to a criminal charge or to a  penaltyor forfeiture.	The police officer may make a written recordof  the statement.  Section 163 of the Code then  lays	downthe rule that no police officer or other person in55authority  shall  offer or make, or cause to be	 offered  ormade,  any inducement, threat or promise as is mentioned  inthe  Indian Evidence Act, s. 24 and further that  no  policeofficer	 or  other person shall prevent, by any	 caution  orotherwise,  any	 person	 from making in the  course  of	 anyinvestigation any statement which he may be disposed to makeof  his own free will.	Section 162 of the Code	 then  makesstatements reduced into writing inadmissible for any purposeexcept	those  indicated, but leaves the door open  for	 theoperation of s. 27 of the Indian Evidence Act.	Section	 164confers	 the power to record confessions, on Magistrates  ofstated	rank during investigation or at any time  afterwardsbefore	the  commencement  of the enquiry  or  trial.	Suchconfessions  are  to be recorded after due  caution  to	 theperson making the confession and only if there is reason  tobelieve	 that  they are voluntary.  Section 46 of  the	Codeprovides  that	in making an arrest the	 police	 officer  orother person making the same shall actually touch or confinethe  body  of the person to be arrested, unless there  be  asubmission to the custody by word or action.When  an offence is committed and investigation starts,	 thepolice	have  two  objects  in	view.	The  first  is	 thecollection of information, and the second is the finding  ofthe offender.  In this process, the police question a numberof persons, some of whom may be only witnesses and some	 whomay  later figure as the person or persons  charged.   Whilequestioning  such persons, the police may not  caution	themand the police must leave the persons free to make  whateverstatements they wish to make.  There are two checks at	thisstage.	 What  the witnesses or the suspects say is  not  beused  at  the  trial, and a person cannot  be  compelled  toanswer a question, which answer may incriminate him.  It  isto be noticed that at that stage though the police may	havesuspicion  against  the	 offender, there  is  no  differencebetween him and other witnesses, who are questioned.   Thosewho turn out to be witnesses and not accused are expected togive  evidence at the trial and their former statements	 arenot evidence.  In so far as those ultimately charged56are concerned, they cannot be witnesses, save exceptionally,and their statements are barred under s. 162 of the Code andtheir  confessions, under s. 24 of the Indian Evidence	Act.Their confessions are only relevant and admissible, if	theyare recorded as laid down in s. 164 of the Code of  CriminalProcedure after due caution by the Magistrate and it is madeclear  that they are voluntary.	 These rules are based	uponthe  maxim: Nemo tenetur prodere seipsum (no one  should  becompelled  to incriminate himself): In an address to  PoliceConstables  on	their  duties,	Hawkins,  J.,  (later,	LordBrampton), observed:" Neither Judge, magistrate nor juryman, can interrogate  anaccused person...... or require him to answer the  questionstending	 to  incriminate himself.  Much less, then  ought  aconstable  to  do so, whose duty as regards that  person  issimply to arrest and detain him in safe custody."In  English law, the statement of an accused person  can  betendered in evidence, provided he has been cautioned and theexact  words  of  the accused are  deposed  to.	  Says	LordBrampton:"  There is, however, no objection to a constable  listeningto any mere voluntary statement which a prisoner desires  tomake, and repeating such statement in evidence, nor is thereany objection to his repeating in evidence any	conversationhe may have heard between the prisoner and any other person.But he ought not, by anything he says or does, to invite  orencourage  an accused person to make any statement,  withoutfirst  cautioning him, that he is not bound to say  anythingtending to criminate himself, and that anything he says	 maybe used against him.  Perhaps the best maxim with respect toan accused person is 'Keep your ears and eyes open, and yourmouth shut ' ".See Sir Howard Vincent's " Police CodeIn  Ibrahim v. Emperor (1), Lord Sumner gave the history  ofrules of common law relating to confessions, and pointed outthat they were " as old as Lord Hale ". Lord Sumner observedthat in Reg. v. Thompson(2)(1) [1914] A.C. 599.(2) (1893) 2 Q.B. 12.57and earlier in The King v Jane Warrickshall (1) it was ruled(to quote from the second case):" A confession forced from the mind by the flattery of hope,or by the torture of fear, comes in so questionable a shape,when  it is to be considered as the evidence of guilt,	thatno credit ought to be given to it."Lord Sumner added:"  It  is not that the law presumes such  statements  to  beuntrue but from the danger of receiving such evidence Judgeshave   thought	 it  better  to	 reject	 it  for   the	 dueadministration of justice: Reg. v. Baldry (2).	 Accordinglywhen hope or fear were not in question, such statements werelong  regularly	 admitted  as  relevant,  though  with	somereluctance,  and  subject  to strong warnings  as  to  theirweight."Even so, in the judgment referred to by Lord Sumner,  Parke,B., bewailed that the rule had been carried too far out of "too much tenderness towards prisoners in this matter ",	 andobserved :" I confess that I cannot look at the decisions without someshame,	when  I consider what objections have  prevailed  toprevent the reception of confessions in evidence Justice andcommonsense  have  too	frequently been	 sacrificed  at	 theshrine of mercy."Whatever the views of Parke, B., Lord Sumner points out that"  when	 Judges	 excluded  such	 evidence,  it	was   ratherexplained  by their observations on the duties of  policementhan justified by their reliance on rules of law."Lord  Sumner  has  then traced the history  of	the  law  insubsequent  years.  In 1905, Channel, J., in Beg  v.  Knightand  Thavre  (3) referred to the position of an	 accused  incustody thus:"  When	 he has taken any one into custody he ought  not  toquestion the prisoner I am not aware of any distinct rule ofevidence  that,	 if such improper questions are	 asked,	 theanswers	 to  them  are	inadmissible,  but  there  is  clearauthority for saying that the(1) (1783) 1 Leach 263 ; 168 E.R. 234.(2) (1852) 5 Cox  C.C. 523.(3)  (1905) 20 Cox C.C. 711858Judge at the trial may in his discretion refuse to allow theanswers to be given in evidence."Five years later, the same learned Judge in Rex v. Booth andJones (1) observed:" The moment you have decided to charge him and	 practicallygot him into custody, then, inasmuch as a Judge cannot ask aquestion or a Magistrate, it is ridiculous to suppose that apoliceman  can.	 But there is no actual authority yet,	thatif a policeman does ask a question it is inadmissible;	whathappens is that the Judge says it is not advisable to  pressthe matter."it is to be noticed that Lord Sumner noted the difference ofapproach  to the question by different Judges, and  observedthat:"Logically these objections all go to the weight and not  tothe  admissibility  of the evidence.  What a  person  havingknowledge  about  the matter in issue says of it  is  itselfrelevant to the issue as evidence against him.	That he madethe statement under circumstances of hope, fear, interest orotherwise  strictly goes only to its weight......  Even	 therule  which  excludes  evidence	 of  statements	 made  by  aprisoner,  when they are induced by hope in authority, is  arule of policy."The  Judicial  Committee did not express any opinion  as  towhat  the law should be.  The state of English law  in	1861when  these  rules  became a part of the  Indian  law  in  astatutory  form was thus that the police could question	 anyperson	including a suspect.  The statements of persons	 whoturned out to be mere witnesses were entirely  inadmissible,they  being  supposed to say what they could,  on  oath,  inCourt.	Statements of suspects after caution were admissiblebut  not  before the caution was administered or  they	weretaken in custody; but confessions were, as a rule,  excludedif they were induced by hope, fear, threat, etc.When  the Indian law was enacted in 1861, it is	 commonplacethat  the  statute was drafted in England.   Two  departureswere  made,  and they were (1) that no statement made  to  apolice officer by any(1)  (1910) 5 Cr.  App.	 Rep. 177.59person was provable at the trial which included the  accusedperson, and (2) that no caution was to be given to a  personmaking a statement.In  so	far as the accused was concerned, he  was  protectedfrom his own folly in confessing to a charge both after	 andbefore	his  custody unless he respectively did	 so  in	 theimmediate  presence of a Magistrate, or his  confession	 wasrecorded  by a Magistrate.  In either event, the  confessionhad to be voluntary and free from taint of threat,  promise,fear, etc.  The law was framed to protect a suspect  againsttoo  much  garrulity before he know that he  was  in  dangerwhich sense would dawn on him when arrested and yet left thedoor  open to voluntary statements which might clear him  ifmade  but  which  might	 not  be  made	if  a  caution	 wasadministered.	Without the caution an innocent	 suspect  isnot  in	 a  position  to know his  danger,  while  a  personarrested  knows	 his position only too	well.	Without	 thecaution,  the line of distinction ceased, and the  law	verysensibly  left out the statements altogether.  Thus,  beforearrest	all suspects, whether rightly suspected or  wrongly,were  on par.  Neither the statements of the one nor of	 theother were provable, and there was no caution at all.The  English  law then was taken as a model for	 accused  incustody.   Section  27 which is framed as an  exception	 hasrightly been hold as an exception to ss. 24-26 and not	onlyto  s. 26.  The words of the section were taken bodily	fromThe King v. Lockhart where it was said:"  But	it  should seem that so much of	 the  confession  asrelates	 strictly to the fact discovered by it may be  givenin   evidence,	 for  the  reason  of	rejecting   extortedconfessions  is the apprehension that the prisoner may	havebeen  thereby  induced to say what is false;  but  the	factdiscovered   shews  that  so  much  of	the  confession	  asimmediately relates to it is true."That  case  followed immediately after	Warrickshall's	case(2),  and summarised the law laid down in the earlier  case.The accused in that case had made a(1)  (1785) 1 Leach 386: 168 E.R. 295 and footnote to (1783)Leach 263.(2)  (1783) 1 Leach 263: 168 E. R. 234.60confession  which  was	not receivable, as  it	was  due  topromise of favour.  As a result of the confession, the goodsstolen were found concealed in a mattress.  It was contendedthat the evidence of the finding of the articles should	 notbe admitted.  Nares, J., with Mr. Baron Eyre observed:"It  is a mistaken notion, that the evidence of	 confessionsand  facts  which  have	 been  obtained	 from  prisoners  bypromises  or  threats, is to be rejected from  a  regard  topublic	faith;	no such rule ever prevailed.   The  idea  isnovel in theory, and would be as dangerous in practice as itis  repugnant  to the general principles  of  criminal	law.Confessions  are  received  in	evidence,  or  rejected	  asinadmissible, under a consideration whether they are or	 arenot  intitled  to credit ......	 This  principle  respectingconfessions has no application whatever as to the  admissionor  rejection  of facts, whether the knowledge	of  them  beobtained  in  consequence  of  an  extorted  confession,  orwhether it arises from any other source ; for a fact, if  itexists	at  all, must exist invariably in the  same  manner,whether the confession from which it is derived be in  otherrespects true or false."Another case is noted in the footnote in the English  ReportSeries.	 In February Session, 1784, Dorothy Mosey was  triedfor  shop-lifting and a confession had been made by her	 andgoods  found  in consequence of it, as in  the	above  case.Buller, J., (present Mr. Baron Perryn, who agreed), said:"  A  prisoner was tried before me (Buller,  J.)  where	 theevidence  was  just  as	 it is	here.	I  stopped  all	 thewitnesses  when they came to the confession.   The  prisonerwas acquitted.	There were two learned Judges on the  bench,who  told me, that although what the prisoner said  was	 notevidence, yet that any facts arising afterwards may be givenin  evidence,  though they were done in consequence  of	 theconfession.   This  point,  though it  did  not	 affect	 theprisoner  at the bar, was stated to all the Judges: and	 theline   drawn  was,  that  although  confessions	  improperlyobtained  cannot be received in evidence, yet that the	actsdone after-61wards  may  be given in evidence, though they were  done  inconsequence of the confession."Where,	however, no fact was discovered, the  statement	 wasnot held admissible.  See Rex v. Richard Griffin (1) and Rexv. Francis Jones (2).In  Rex	 v. David Jenkins(1), the prisoner  was	 con  victedbefore	Bayley, J., (present Park, J.), of stealing  certaingowns and other articles.  He was induced by a promise	fromthe  prosecutor	 to  confess  his  guilt,  and	after	thatconfession,  he carried the officer to a  particular  house,but  the  property  was	 not found.   The  evidence  of	 theconfession  was not received; the evidence of  his  carryingthe officer to the house as abovementioned was.	 But Bayley,J., referred the point for consideration of the Judges.	 TheJudges were of opinion that,"  the	evidence was not admissible and the  conviction	 wastherefore  wrong.  The confession was excluded,	 being	madeunder  the  influence of a promise it could  not  be  reliedupon,  and  the	 acts  of  the	prisoner,  under  the	sameinfluence,  not	 being	confirmed  by  the  finding  of	 theproperty,  were open to the same objection.   The  influencewhich  might  produce  a groundless  confession	 might	alsoproduce a groundless conduct."It would appear from this that s. 27 of the Indian  EvidenceAct has been taken bodily from the English law.	 In both thelaws  there is greater solicitude for a person who  makes  astatement at a stage when the danger in which he stands	 hasnot  been brought home to him than for one who knows of	 thedanger.	 In English law, the caution gives him the necessarywarning, and in India the fact of his being in custody takesthe  place of caution which is not to be given.	  There	 is,thus, a clear distinction made between a person not  accusedof an offence nor in the custody of a police officer and onewho is.It  remains  to	 point out that in 1912 the  Judges  of	 theKing's	Bench Division framed rules for the guidance of	 thepolice.	 These rules, though they had no(1) (1809) Russ. & Ry. 151 : 168 E.R. 732.(2) (1809) Russ.  & Ry. 152.(3) (1822) Russ. & Ry 492: 168 E.R. 914.62force  of law, laid down the procedure to be  followed.	  Atfirst,	four  rules were framed, but later, five  more	wereadded.	 They are reproduced in Halsbury's Laws of  England,3rd  Edn.,  Vol. 10, p. 470, para. 865.	  These	 rules	alsoclearly divide persons suspected of crime into those who arein police custody and those who are not.  It is assumed thata  person in the former category knows his danger while	 theperson in the latter may not.  The law is tender towards theperson	who may not know of his danger, because in his	casethere is less chance of fairplay than in the case of one whohas been warned.It  is to be noticed that in the Royal Commission on  PolicePowers and Procedure (1928-29) CMD 3297, nothing is said  toshow  that there is anything invidious in making  statementsleading	 to the discovery of a relevant fact  admissible  inevidence,  when	 such  statements are  made  by	 persons  incustody.    The	 suggestions  and  recommendations  of	 theCommission  are	 only  designed to  protect  questioning  ofpersons	 not yet taken in custody or taken in custody  on  aminor  charge  and the use of statements obtained  in  thosecircumstances.The  law has thus made a classification of  accused  personsinto two: (1) those who have the danger brought home to themby  detention on a charge; and (2) those who are  yet  free.In the former category are also those persons who  surrenderto the custody by words or action.  The protection given  tothese  two  classes is different.  In the  case	 of  personsbelonging  to  the second category the law  has	 ruled	thattheir statements are not admissible, and in the case of	 thefirst  category,  only	that portion  of  the  statement  isadmissible  as is guaranteed by the discovery of a  relevantfact  unknown  before  the statement  to  the  investigatingauthority.   That  statement  may even	be  confessional  innature,	 as when the person in custody says ; "I pushed	 himdown such and such mineshaft", and the body of the victim isfound  as a result, and it can be proved that his death	 wasdue to injuries received by a fall down the mineshaft.It is argued that there is denial of equal protection63of  the	 law,  because if the  statement  were	made  beforecustody	 began,	 it would be inadmissible.  of	course,	 themaking	of  the statement as also the stage at which  it  ismade,  depends	upon  the  person making  it.	The  law  isconcerned  in  seeing  fairplay	 and  this  is	achieved  byinsisting   that  an  unguarded	 statement  should  not	  bereceivable.  The need for caution is there, and this cautionis  very forcefully brought home to an accused, when  he  isaccused	 of an offence and is in the custody of the  police.There  is thus a classification which is reasonable as	wellas  intelligible, and it subserves a purpose recognised	 nowfor over two centuries.	 When such an old and time-worn ruleis challenged by modern notions, the basis of the rule	mustbe  found.   When this is done, as I have attempted  to	 do,there  is no doubt left that the rule is for advancement  ofjustice	 with protection both to a suspect not yet  arrestedand to an accused in custody.  There is ample protection  toan  accused, because only that portion of the  statement  ismade  admissible  against  him which  has  resulted  in	 thediscovery  of  a  material fact	 otherwise  unknown  to	 thepolice.	  I  do not, therefore, regard this as	evidence  ofunequal treatment.Before	leaving	 the  subject,	I may  point  out  that	 therecommendation of the Royal Commission was:"  (xlviii)  A	rigid instruction should be  issued  to	 thePolice	that no questioning of a prisoner, or a ` person  incustody',  about any crime or offence with which he  is,  ormay be charged, should be permitted.  This does not  excludequestions  to remove elementary and obvious  ambiguities  involuntary statements, under No. (7) of the Judges' Rules butthe  prohibition should cover all persons who, although	 notin  custody,  have been charged and are out  on	 bail  whileawaiting trial."This is a matter for the legislature to consider.In  view of what I have said above and the reasons given  byShah, J., I agree that the appeal be allowed, as proposed byhim.BY COURT: In accordance with the opinion of the majority theappeal	is allowed.  Section 27 of the Indian  Evidence	 Actand s. 162, sub-s. (2), of the Code64of Criminal Procedure in so far as "that section relates  tos.  27 of the Indian Evidence Act", are intra vires  and  donot  offend Art. 14 of the Constitution.  The order  of	 theHigh  Court acquitting the respondent is also set aside	 andthe  order of the Court of Sessions convicting	the  accused(respondent)  under  s. 302 of the Indian  Penal  ("ode	 andsentencing him to death is restored.			      Appeal allowed.