PETITIONER:T. CAJEE	Vs.RESPONDENT:U.   JORMANIK SIEM AND ANOTHER.DATE OF JUDGMENT:20/09/1960BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)KAPUR, J.L.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1961 AIR  276		  1961 SCR  (1) 750 CITATOR INFO : R	    1964 SC 787	 (10) D	    1965 SC1818	 (20) R	    1966 SC1942	 (6) F	    1967 SC1910	 (8) F	    1968 SC 800	 (3) D	    1970 SC 140	 (5) R	    1970 SC1494	 (8) RF	    1972 SC 223	 (11) R	    1972 SC1193	 (10) R	    1978 SC 327	 (5) R	    1982 SC 917	 (21) RF	    1986 SC2166	 (6)ACT:Assam  Tribal  Areas, administration  of-Removal  of  tribalChief-Whether  Permissible by administrative action  withoutmaking	of law-District Council-Executive Committee,  Powersof-Interim suspension of Chief-Constitution of India,  SixthSchedule.HEADNOTE:The respondent was Siem of Mylliem siemship in United  Khasiand  jaintia  Hills District in the Tribal Areas  of  Assam,having been elected as such by the Myntri electors accordingto  custom in 1951.  In June, 1952, a District	Council	 wasconstituted for the District under the Sixth Schedule to theConstitution  and  the siemship was brought under  it.	 Therules  in the Sixth Schedule empowered the District  Councilto  make laws with respect to various matters regarding	 theadministration of the District including the appointment  orsuccession   of	 Chiefs	 and  Headmen.	 No  law  was	maderegulating  the	 appointment and succession  of	 Chiefs	 andHeadmen.   The	Chief  Executive  Member  of  the  ExecutiveCommittee of the District Council served on the respondent anotice	to show cause why he should not be removed from	 hisoffice	and  suspended him.  The respondent  challenged	 theaction	on the grounds: (i) that he could not be removed  byadministrative orders but only by making a law, (ii)   thatthe  Executive Committee could not take any action  in	thiscase,  and  (iii)  that the order of  suspension  was  ultravires. Held, that the District Council had the power to appoint orremove	administrative personnel under the general power  ofadministration	vested	in it by the  Sixth  Schedule.	 TheDistrict  Council  was	both an	 administration	 well  as  alegislative body.  After a law was made with respect to	 theappointment  or	 removal  of  administrative  personnel	 theauthority  would  be bound to follow it; but until  then  itcould exercise its administrative powers.  Since the  UnitedKhasi-jaintia  Hills  Autonomous District  (Appointment	 andSuccession  of Chiefs and Headmen) Act, 1959, had  now	comeinto force further action should be taken in accordance withthat Act.The  Executive Committee could, under r. 3o(a) of the  AssamAutonomous  Districts  (Constitution of	 District  Councils)Rules, 1951, act on behalf of the District Council in  casesof  emergency and it was not for the courts to go  into	 thequestion  whether there was an emergency or not.   In  thesecircumstances  the action taken by the	Executive  Committeecould not be challenged.An order of interim suspension could be passed against the			    751respondent  while inquiry was pending into his conduct	eventhough there was no specific provision to that effect in histerms	of  appointment.   But	he  was	 entitled   to	 hisremuneration  for  the period of his interim  suspension  asthere  was no statute or rule existing under which it  couldbe withheld.The  Management of Hotel Imperial v. Hotel  Workers'  Union,[1960] 1 S.C.R. 476, applied.Per  Subba  Rao, J.-It is very doubtful	 whether,  when	 theConstitution  confers on an authority power to make laws  inrespect	 of  a specific subject matter, that  authority	 candeal with the same subject matter without making such a	 lawin its administrative capacity.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 394 of 1960.Appeal from the judgment and order dated April 19, 1960,  ofthe Assam High Court in Civil Rule No. 69/1959.C.K.   Daphtary,  Solicitor-General  of	 India,	  A.   V.Viswanatha Sastri, Narendra Kumar Lahiri andR.   Gopalakrishnan, for the appellant.N.C.  Chatterjee and D. N. Mukherjee, for respondent  No.1.Naunit Lal, for respondent No. 2.1960.	September 20.  The Judgment of Sinha, C. J.,  Kapur,Gajendragadkar	and Wanchoo, JJ., was delivered by  Wanchoo,J. Subba Rao, J., delivered a separate Judgment.WANCHOO J.-This appeal, on a certificate granted under	Art.132 (1) of the Constitution by the Assam High Court,  raisesquestions regarding the interpretation of certain provisionsof the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution.  A writ  petitionwas  filed  by	U. Jormanik  Siem  (hereinafter	 called	 therespondent)  in	 the  Assam High  Court	 against  the  ChiefExecutive Member of the District Council (hereinafter calledthe  appellant).   United Khasi and Jaintia  Hills  District(hereinafter   called  the  District).	 The  case  of	 therespondent  was that he was Siem of Mylliem siemship in	 theDistrict  and  was elected as such by the Myntries  and	 thepeople according to custom in 1951.  After the	constitutionof the District Council for the District, in752June  1952,  the  siemship  was brought	 under	it  and	 therespondent  continued  to discharge the	 administrative	 andjudicial functions, for which be was remunerated  by a shareof  the	 gross	income	of  the	 siemship.   The  Siem	onceappointed  could  not  be removed  from	 his  office  exceptthrough a referendum of the people according to custom untilsuch  custom  was  changed  by	legislation  passed  by	 theDistrict  Council with the concurrence of the Governor.	  Nosuch  legislation  had	however been passed  till  the	writpetition  was  made  on July 8, 1959.	But  on	 account  ofpolitical  differences between the respondent and  the	thenChief Executive Member an attempt was made after the GeneralElections  of 1957 to harm the respondent.   In	 consequencecertain	 charges were levelled against the respondent and  aDurbar was called by the appellant for July 6, 1959, and therespondent  was asked to be present at the Durbar to  defendhimself.   It  is not clear whether the Durbar was  held  orDot,  but  an  order  was issued on July  7,  1959,  by	 theappellant in which it was said that the charges against	 therespondent  had been forwarded to him and he had been  givenan opportunity to show cause on or before July 17, 1959, whyhe  should  not be removed from his office and that  he	 hadfailed to appear before the appellant on July 7 as  ordered.Therefore, the respondent was suspended from his office fromJuly  8, 1959, and was required to make over charge  to	 theacting	Siem on the same day.  The respondent however  filedthe  writ petition on July 8, 1959, which was  admitted	 thesame  day  and notice was issued to the	 appellant  to	showcause  why the writ should not be granted.  The	 High  Courtalso  passed an order staying the operation of the order  ofthe appellant dated July 7, 1959.  The respondent  contendedthat be could not be removed from his office or suspended bythe Executive Committee of the District Council and that theorder of the appellant suspending him was illegal and  ultravires  being  against  custom and  usage  relating  to	thatmatter.	  Further  the order of the  appellant	was  withoutjurisdiction  as it was passed without the approval  of	 theDistrict Council and there was no emergency			    753justifying the order.  The order was also mala fide and	 wasdue  to political animosity between the respondent  and	 theExecutive Committee.The petition was opposed on behalf of the appellant, and itsmain  contention  was  that the Siem  was  nominated  by  anelectoral  college  consisting	of  the	 representatives  ofseveral	 , clans and that the people in general had  nothingto  do	with it and that the nomination of the Siem  by	 theelectoral college was subject to approval of the Government.In accordance with that custom, the respondent's  nominationby  the	 Myntri-electors  to the  siemship  of	Mylliem	 wasapproved  by  the  Government and he was  appointed  to	 theoffice	of  Siem  subject to confirmation  by  the  DistrictCouncil	 when  that  body came into  existence.	  After	 theDistrict  Council was constituted in 1952, it  approved	 theprovisional appointment made by the Government and confirmedit on certain terms mentioned in the letter of April 9,1953.Later  these terms were modified by the District Council  incertain particulars by letter dated August 9, 1955, and	 therespondent  had	 been  working as Siem	by  virtue  of	thisconfirmation  by the District Council on the terms  conveyedto  him	 in the two letters mentioned above.  There  was  nocustom which required a referendum of the people before	 theSiem of Mylliem could be removed from office.  On the  otherhand,  the Siem being appointed by the	Government  formerlyand now by the District Council was liable to removal and orsuspension  by the appointing authority in case he  did	 notact in accordance with the terms of his appointment and	 wasguilty	of  oppression, misconduct or dereliction  of  duty.The  charge  of political animosity against the	 then  ChiefExecutive  Member was denied and attention was drawn to	 therespondent's  conduct in the discharge of his  duties  whichshowed	that  he  was  unfit to hold  the  office  of  Siem;consequently an order was passed on July 7, 1959, suspendinghim and the order was legal, intra vires and in keeping withcustom	and  usage of the land and it was not  necessary  toobtain	the approval of the District Council to the  passingof that order which was in accordance with754the  terms  of appointment of the respondent.	Further	 theExecutive  Committee, considering all the  circumstances  ofthe  case,  was	 of  the opinion  that	the  matter  was  ofemergency  and	therefore took action  without	getting	 theorder approved by the District Council.The  High Court did not go into the question  whether  therewas any custom by which the Siem could be removed only by  areferendum.  It held that after the coming into force of theConstitution,  the  Khasi  States  lost	 all  existence	  asseparate  entities  except in so far as their  existence  orauthority  was preserved by the Constitution.  It also	heldthat  the respondent was appointed to the office of Siem  bythe Deputy Commissioner on behalf of the Government with dueregard	to  the nomination made by the	Myntri-electors	 andthis appointment was subject to confirmation by the DistrictCouncil when that body was constituted and that in fact	 theDistrict Council confirmed the appointment on April 9, 1953,on  certain terms which were revised in 1955.  It also	heldthat  the  administration  of the  District  vested  in	 theDistrict   Council;  but  it  was  of  the  view  that	 theappointment and succession of Sims were never intended to beits  administrative  function  and  therefore  the  DistrictCouncil could only act in this matter by making law with theassent of the Governor and not by passing orders in exerciseof  its	 administrative functions.  Therefore the  power  toappoint, even if it included the power to dismiss, could  beexercised  by the District Council only by means  of  properlegislation.   In  the result, the High	 Court	allowed	 thepetition and directed that the order of July 7, 1959, shouldnot  be	 given	effect to as it was not	 supported  by	law.Thereupon   the	 appellant  applied  for  and	obtained   acertificate  from  the	High Court under  Art.	132  of	 theConstitution; and that is how the matter has come up  beforeus.Before we deal with the main point on the basis of which thewrit  filed  by	 the  respondent  in  the  High	 Court	 hassucceeded,  it will be useful to consider what the  positionof the Chiefs in the former Khasi States was before 1947 andhow that position was affected			    755by  the coming into force of the Constitution in  1950.	  Itappears that before 1947 there were twenty-five such  Chiefswho had however very limited powers.  In some of the States,the succession appears to have been hereditary; but in	mostof them the Chief by whatever name he was known was  electedeither by what was equivalent to an electoral college or  bythe  people  generally,	 the election in  many	cases  beingconfined to members of certain families known as the Chief'sfamilies.  But whether the succession was hereditary or	 theChief was elected by the electoral college or by the people,the recognition of the British Government through the  Crownrepresentative was necessary before the Chief could exerciseany  powers and this was conveyed by means of sands  grantedto  the Chief.	It further appears that the British  Govern-ment  through the Crown representative as  paramount  power,reserved to itself the right to remove the Chief in case  ofoppression, misconduct or dereliction of duty, though beforetaking	such action the prevalent custom in  the  particularState  regarding  the  ascertainment of the  wishes  of	 theelectoral  college or the people was followed.	 The  Chiefswere  also under the control of the Deputy  Commissioner  ofthe  district.	 This  was the position	 upto  the  15th  ofAugust, 1947, when India became a Dominion.  Thereafter	 theparamountly of the British Government lapsed and it  appearsthat  the  twenty-five	Chiefs	established  a	 Federation.Thereafter a new relationship was established between  thesetwenty-five  Chiefs and the Government of India by means  ofan  Instrument	of  Accession  which  was  accepted  by	 theGovernor-General  of  India  on August 17,  1948.   By	thisInstrument, the Chiefs individually as well as	collectivelyas  members  of the Federation acceded to  the	Dominion  ofIndia  by  which all  existing	administrative	arrangementsbetween	 the Government of India and the State of  Assam  onthe  one  hand	and the Khasi States on the  other  were  tocontinue  in force until new or modified  arrangements	weremade  subject  to  certain exceptions  as  to  judicial	 andadministrative powers.	It is not necessary to set out theseexceptions756except that so far as administrative powers were  concerned,only excise, forests, land and water rights and the  revenuederived	 therefrom  were  excepted  and	 all  the  remainingfunctions  were	 to  be common with  the  Central  or  StateGovernment.   Further  in  the matter  of  legislation,	 theDominion Legislature and the Assam Legislature had the powerto pass laws concerning subjects of common interest with theproviso	  that	 some  machinery  should  be   devised	 forrepresentation in the Assam legislature.This  position	continued till the  Constitution  came	intoforce.	There was no merger as such of the twenty-five KhasiStates	 in  India  before  January  26,  1950.	   But	 theConstitution, by the First Schedule in which the territoriesof the State of Assam were defined, merged the Khasi  Statesinto the State of Assam, as that State was to consist of theterritories which immediately before the commencement of theConstitution  were comprised in the Province of	 Assam,	 theKhasi  States and the Assam Tribal Areas but  excluding	 theterritories   specified	 in  the  Schedule  to	 the   Assam(Alteration   of  Boundaries)  Act,  1951.   Thus   by	 theConstitution  the Khasi States were merged in the  State  ofAssam  and any power of the Chiefs so far as  administrationwas   concerned	 came  to  end.	  By  Art.  244(2)  of	 theConstitution,  however, special provisions contained in	 theSixth  Schedule thereof were to apply to the  administrationof  the	 Tribal Areas in the State of Assam.   The  positiontherefore  after the Coming into force of  the	Constitutionwas  that the Chiefs lost whatever ruling or  administrativepowers they had by the merger of these twenty-five States inAssam  and the governance of these States was to be  carriedon according to the provisions of the Sixth Schedule.This  brings  us  to the Sixth Schedule, and  we  may  referbriefly to the provisions contained therein with respect  tothe administration of the tribal areas in Assam.  By  paras.1  and 20 the whole tribal area is divided  into  autonomousdistricts and two other areas.	Autonomous districts can  inturn be divided into autonomous regions.  Paragraphs 2 to 17deal			    757with   the  administration  of	autonomous   districts	 andautonomous   regions,  while  para.  18	 provides  for	 theapplication by the Governor of the provisions of paras. 2 to17  to the other two areas specified in para. 20.  Paragraph19 deals with transitional provisions and para. 21 with	 theamendment  of  the Schedule.  It may be mentioned  that	 theUnited	Khasi and Jaintia Hills District with which  we	 areconcerned in this case is to comprise the territories  whichbefore	the commencement of the Constitution were  known  asthe Khasi States and the Khasi and Jaintia Hills  Districts,excluding   certain   areas  within   the   cantonment	 andmunicipality  of Shillong.  District Councils  and  RegionalCouncils  are  to  be  constituted under  para.	 2  and	 theGovernor  is  given  power  to	make  rules  for  the  firstconstitution  of District Councils and Regional Councils  inconsultation  with  the existing tribal councils  and  otherrepresentative tribal organisations within the districts  orregions	 concerned  and	 the rules are to  provide  for	 thecomposition of the councils, the delimitation of territorialconstituencies,	 the qualifications for voting at  electionsand  the preparation of electoral rolls, the  qualificationsfor being elected as members of councils, the term of officeof the members and any other matter relating to or connectedwith   elections  or  nominations  to  such  councils,	 theprocedure  and conduct of business in the councils, and	 theappointment  of officers and staff of the  councils.   Thesevery  powers  were  conferred on the  District	or  RegionalCouncil	 after it came into being along with  certain  otherpowers	for  the formation of local Councils or	 Boards	 andtheir  procedure and the conduct of business, and  generallyall   matters  relating	 to  the  transaction  of   businesspertaining to the administration of the district or  region,as  the case may be.  Further para. 2(4) provides  that	 theadministration of autonomous district shall, in so far as itis  not vested under this Schedule in any  Regional  Councilwithin such district, be vested in the District Council	 forsuch district and the administration of an autonomous regionshall be vested in the97758Regional  Council for such region.  Paragraph 3 gives  powerto  the	 District and Regional Councils to  make  laws	withrespect	 to  various matters including the   appointment  orsuccession of Chiefs or Headmen, subject to such laws  beingsubmitted to the Governor without whose assent they are	 notto   come  into	 force.	  Paragraphs  4	 and  5	 deal	withadministration of justice.  Paragraph 6 gives powers to	 theDistrict  Council to establish, construct or manage  primaryschools,  dispensaries,	 markets,  cattle  pounds,  ferries,fisheries, roads and waterways.	 Paragraphs 7, 8 and 9	dealwith  financial	 matters.  Paragraph 10 gives power  to	 theDistrict  Councils  to make regulations for the	 control  ofmoney  lending and trading by nontribals, which are to	comeinto  force  on the assent of the  Governor.   Paragraph  11provides for publication of laws, rules and regulations madeunder the Schedule.  Paragraph 12 deals with the applicationof  Acts of Parliament and the Legislature of the  State  toautonomous  districts and autonomous regions.  Paragraph  13deals  with  the  budget while para.  14  provides  for	 theappointment  of a commission by the Governor at any time  toinquire into and report on the administration of  autonomousdistricts and autonomous regions.  Paragraph 15 gives  powerto the Governor to annul or suspend any Act or regulation ofDistrict  and Regional Councils under certain  contingenciesand  also gives him power to suspend the Council and  assumeall  or any of its powers to himself subject to	 such  orderbeing  placed  before the Assam legislature.   Paragraph  16gives  power  to  the Governor to  dissolve  a	District  orRegional  Council  on the recommendation of  the  Commissionappointed  under para. 14 and order a fresh election and  inthe  meantime  to assume the administration of the  area  tohimself	 subject  to  the previous  approval  of  the  Assamlegislature.   Paragraph  17  deals  with  the	forming	  ofconstituencies for the Assam Legislative Assembly.  Then  wecome  to para. 19, which deals with transitional  provisionsand   lays  down  that	as  soon  as  possible	 after	 thecommencement  of the Constitution, the Governor	 shall	takesteps for the constitution of			    759a District Council for each autonomous district in the Stateunder  the  Schedule  and until a  District  Council  is  soconstituted  for an autonomous district, the  administrationof  such district shall be vested in the Governor.  It	alsoprovides  that	no  Act	 of  Parliament	 or  of	 the   Assamlegislature  shall apply to any area unless the Governor  byPublic	notification so directs and the Governor  in  givingsuch  direction with respect to any Act may direct that	 theAct shall in its application to the area or to any specifiedpart  thereof,	have effect subject to	such  exceptions  ormodifications as he thinks fit.	 The Governor is also  givenpower to make regulations for the peace and good  governmentof  any area and any regulation so made may repeal or  amendany  Act  of Parliament or of the Assam legislature  or	 anyexisting law which is for the time being applicable to	sucharea.	The  power  to make regulations is  subject  to	 theassent by the President.It  will thus be seen from the scheme of the Sixth  Schedulethat the District Council is both an administrative as	wellas  a legislative body.	 Further all the administrative	 andLegislative  powers were vested in the Governor by para.  19till  the District Councils were constituted.  The  Governorframed	Rules  under para. 2 (6) in 1951  called  the  AssamAutonomous  Districts  (Constitution of	 District  Councils)Rules, 1951.  The Rules provide inter alia for an  ExecutiveCommittee  with the Chief Executive Member as the  head	 andtwo other members to exercise the executive functions of theDistrict Council.  The Rules also specify the matters  whichare  excepted from the purview of the  Executive  Committee,though	in an emergency, the Executive Committee of some  ofthe  autonomous districts is authorised to take such  actionwith respect to excepted matters as might be necessary ; butevery  such case has to be laid before the District  Councilat  its	 next  session.	 In pursuance of  these	 Rules,	 theDistrict Council for the District came into being from	June1952.We  have already observed that the administrative powers  ofthe Chiefs as they existed before January76026,  1950, came to an end with the coming into force of	 theConstitution   and  during  the	 transitional	period	 alladministrative powers vested in the Governor which could  beexercised  by those appointed by him under his powers  underpara.  19 of the Sixth Schedule.  It is in  this  backgroundthat we have to consider the notification of March 6,  1951.That  notification notified for the general  information  ofthe  subjects  of  Mylliem Siemship  that  Government  aftercareful consideration of the nomination made by the  Myntri-electors  of  the successor to the Siemship of	Mylliem	 andalso of the objections to this nomination, had appointed therespondent as Siem of Mylliem in place of late U. Sati	Rajasubject	 to confirmation by the District Council  when	thatbody  was  constituted.	  It  was  also	 notified  that	 therespondent had taken over charge of the Siemship with effectfrom  March  5, 1951.  It is clear from what  we  have	saidabove that the Myntri electors in this particular case	usedto  elect  a  person  and  their  election  amounted  to   anomination  of that person for the approval of the  Governorto the Siemship of Mylliem; but until the Governor  approvedof  the nomination and appointed the person so nominated  tothe  Siemship he could not hold office as Siem of  Alylliem.The  position therefore just after the coming into force  ofthe Constitution was that the Governor was charged with	 theadministration of the autonomous districts till the DistrictCouncils  came into existence and that carried with  it	 thepower  to appoint officers to carry on	the  administration.The  appointment  therefore  of the respondent	as  Siem  ofMylliem	 was  made by virtue of the Governor's	power  underpara.  19 and the respondent derived his power as Siem	fromthat appointment and could not claim any power outside	thatappointment.  The Governor of course made it clear that	 theappointment  was  subject to confirmation  of  the  DistrictCouncil	 when it came into being, for the Governor's  powersat  the time of the appointment were derived from  para.  19and  "are transitional only.  That is why it was  said	thatthe appointment was subject to confirmation by the  DistrictCouncil.  Therefore when the ]District Council			    761came  into  existence in June 1952, it, in  due	 course,  inexercise  of  its administrative powers under para.  2	(4),considered  the question of confirmation of the	 appointmentmade by the Governor in 1951 and confirmed the	respondent'sappointment  as Siem of Mylliem and communicated it  to	 himalong  with  the terms on which the confirmation  was  made.Besides	 the  financial clauses, one of the  terms  providedthat  the  Siem	 shall	be subject to  the  control  of	 theDistrict  Council and shall carry out all the orders  issuedto  him	 from time to time by the District  Council  or	 itsofficers  acting for and on behalf of the District  Council.It was also provided that the Siem shall conduct himself  inaccordance with the established customs and usages  approvedby  the District Council and in accordance with	 the  rules,laws  and  regulations that the District Council  may  issuefrom time to time.  Another term provided that the Siem	 andothers shall be liable to removal from their offices by	 theorder  of  the District Council if that body  was  satisfiedthat  any of them did not discharge his duties	properly  orhad  been acting in a manner prejudicial to the interest  ofthe Siomship or the District Council in general or had	beenconducting himself with indecorum; and such order passed  bythe  District  Council	would be  final.   Therefore,  afterApril, 1953, the respondent continued in the office of	Siemby virtue of this confirmation by the District Council.In 1955, there was some modification of the terms which	 wascommunicated  to  the  respondent  on  August  9,1955.	 Therespondent  was informed that he would continue as  Siem  aslong as he was not removed from the Siemship by the order ofthe  District Council for any lapse on his part; he  was  tosubmit to the directions of the District Council and to obeyall  orders  issued  by the Chief Executive  Member  or	 anyofficer	 of the District Council empowered to act on  behalfof the Chief Executive Member; the respondent was to conductthe  affairs of the Elaka according to the existing  customsand  customary laws as approved by the District Council	 andin  accordance	with  the rules and  regulations  which	 theDistrict Council had762enforced  or  might enforce in future.	Provision  was	alsomade for the judicial powers of the Siem in accordance	withthe   United   Khasi-Jaintia   Hills   Autonomous   District(Administration	 of  Justice) Rules, 1953.   Besides,  therewere certain other terms with respect to financial  matters.The  consequence of these orders was that  the	respondent'sterm  as Siem was to continue as long as he was not  removedfrom  that office for any lapse on his part.   The  positiontherefore  that	 emerges  on a consideration  of  the  threeorders	of  1951, 1953 and 1955 is that the  respondent	 washolding	 the office of Siem by virtue of his appointment  inthe   first   instance	by  the	 Governor  and	 its   laterconfirmation by the District Council on terms which had beencommunicated   to  him	and  was  thus	no  more   than	  anadministrative officer appointed by the District Council  byvirtue	of its powers under para. 2 (4) of the Schedule	 andworking under its control.This position apparently continued till 1959 when we come tothe incidents which culminated in the order of July 7, 1959.We  are not Concerned in this appeal with the merits of	 theaction	taken against the respondent; nor are  we  concernedwith the question whether there were sufficient reasons	 forthe  Executive	Committee to take the action  which  it	 didagainst	 the  respondent.  We are only	concerned  with	 thepower of the Executive Committee of the District Council  totake  any  action at all in the matter of  the	respondent'sremoval	 from the office of Siem.  The High Court has  takenthe  view that the appointment and succession of a Siem	 wasnot  an administrative function of the District Council	 andthat  the  District Council could only act by making  a	 lawwith  the assent of the Governor so far as  the	 appointmentand  removal of a Siem was concerned.  In  this	 connection,the  High  Court relied on para. 3(1)(g)  of  the  Schedule,which  lays  down that the District Council shall  have	 thepower  to  make	 laws with respect to  the  appointment	 andsuccession  of Chiefs and Headmen.  The High Court seems  tobe of the view that until such a law is made there could  beno  power  of  appointment  of a  Chief	 or  Siem  like	 therespondent and in			    763consequence there would be no power of removal either.	Withrespect,  it  seems to us that the High Court has  read	 farmore  into para. 3(1)(g) than is justified by its  language.Paragraph 3(1) is in fact something like a legislative	listand enumerates the subjects on which the District Council iscompetent to make laws.	 Under para. 3(1)(g) it has power tomake  laws with respect to the appointment or succession  ofChiefs or Headmen and this would naturally include the powerto  remove them.  But it does not follow from this that	 theappointment  or removal of a Chief is a legislative  act  orthat  no  appointment or removal can be made  without  therebeing first a law to that effect.  The High Court also seemsto have thought that as there was no provision in the  SixthSchedule  in terms of Arts. 73 and 162 of the  Constitution,the  administrative power of the District Council would	 notextend to the subjects enumerated in para. 3(1).  Now  para.2(4)  provides	that  the administration  of  an  autonomousdistrict shall vest in the District Council and this in	 ouropinion	  is  comprehensive  enough  to	 include  all	suchexecutive  powers as are necessary to be exercised  for	 thepurposes of the administration of the district.	 It is	truethat  where  executive	power impinges upon  the  rights  ofcitizens  it will have to be backed by an  appropriate	law;but  where  executive  power  is  concerned  only  with	 thepersonnel  of  the administration it is	 not  necessary-eventhough it may be desirable-that there must be laws, rules orregulations  governing	the appointment of those  who  wouldcarry  on  the	administration	under  the  control  of	 theDistrict   Council.    The   Sixth   Schedule	vested	 theadministration	of the autonomous districts in the  Governorduring	the  transitional  period  and	thereafter  in	 theDistrict Council.  The administration could only be  carriedon by officers like the Siem or Chief and others below	him,and it seems to us quite clear, if the administration was tobe  carried on, as it must, that the Governor in  the  firstinstance  and  the District Councils after  they  came	intoexistence, would have power by virtue of the  administrationbeing vested in them to appoint officers and others to carry764on   the   administration.   Further  once  the	  power	  ofappointment falls within the power of administration of	 thedistrict  the power of removal of officers and	,,others  soappointed  would  necessarily follow as	 a  corollary.	 TheConstitution could not have intended that all administrationin  the autonomous districts should come to a stop till	 theGovernor  made regulations under para. 19(1)(b) or till	 theDistrict  Council  passed  laws under  para.  3(1)(g).	 TheGovernor  in  the first instance and the  District  Councilsthereafter  were  vested  with the power  to  carry  on	 theadministration and that in our opinion included the power toappoint	 and  remove  the  personnel  for  carrying  on	 theadministration.	  Doubtless when regulations are made  underpara.  19(1)(b)	 or laws are passed under  para.  3(1)	withrespect	 to the appointment or removal of the  personnel  ofthe administration, the administrative authorities would  bebound  to  follow  the regulations so made or  the  laws  sopassed.	  But  from this it does not follow  that  till	 theregulations  were made or the laws were passed, there  couldbe  no	appointment  or dismissal of the  personnel  of	 theadministration.	  In our opinion, the authorities  concernedwould  at  all relevant times have the power to	 appoint  orremove	administrative personnel under the general power  ofadministration	vested in them by the Sixth  Schedule.	 Theview  therefore taken by the High Court that there could  beno appointment or removal by the District Council without  alaw  having  been first passed in that	behalf	under  para.3(1)(g) cannot be sustained.In  this  case, the District Council when it  confirmed	 theappointment  of	 the respondent laid down certain  terms  byvirtue	of  its power of administration and so	far  as	 therespondent  is	concerned  those  terms	 would	govern	 therelations between him and the District Council in respect ofall  matters including his removal from the office of  Siem.As pointed out by this Court in Parshotam Lal Dhingra v. TheUnion  of  India  (1),	the  conditions	 of  service  of   aGovernment servant appointed to a post are regulated by	 theterms of the(1)  [1958] S.C.R. 828,841.765contract  of  employment, express or  implied,	and  subjectthereto,  by  the  rules applicable to the  members  of	 theparticular  service.  In the absence of such general  rules,the particular terms offered to a particular officer on	 hisappointment  would  govern  the	 relationship  between	 theappointing  authority  and  the	 person	 appointed  in	thatparticular  case.  It would therefore be wrong to hold	thatthe  respondent could not be removed from his  office  afterhis appointment in accordance with the terms on which he wasappointed.   On the view taken by the High Court,  even	 theappointment of the respondent would be illegal for there wasno  law	 to support that appointment at the  relevant  time.But  as	 we  have said above, the  Governor  and  later	 theDistrict  Councils being vested with the  administration  ofthe  autonomous	 districts  would  be  entitled	 to  appointpersonnel  for carrying on the administration and the  powerto  appoint  would  include  from  its	very  nature,  beinginherent  in it, the power of removal, for it can hardly  becontended  that	 though the appointment might be  made,	 theauthority  making  the appointment would have  no  power  toremove	a  person once appointed.  In this  particular	casethere  can  be	no difficulty whatsoever  because  when	 theDistrict Council confirmed the appointment of the respondentit laid down the terms on which the appointment will be heldas  well'  as  the terms on which the  respondent  could  beremoved	 from, the office, in which he was being  continued.Nor can it be said that the appointment in this case was  bythe  Governor and therefore the Governor could alone  removehim,  for the notification of March 1951 made it clear	thatthe  appointment  by the Governor was  provisional  and	 wassubject to confirmation by the District Council when it cameinto existence.	 The District Council in fact confirmed	 theappointment  of the respondent in April 1953 and so  in	 lawthe  appointment  of  the respondent  was  by  the  DistrictCouncil and therefore it would have the power to remove him.Besides,  if, as the High Court thought, the appointment  ofthe respondent was invalid, it98766would  inevitably follow that he had no right to ask  for  awrit under Art. 226 ; if the appointment was bad, he had  nolegal  right and he cannot complain against his	 suspension.We  are	 therefore of opinion that the respondent  being  anofficer	 appointed  to carry on the  administration  by	 theDistrict  Council could be removed by it in accordance	withthe terms and conditions of his appointment.The  next  question  that arises is  whether  the  ExecutiveCommittee  could take the action which it did in this  case.Ordinarily,  the  appointment  being made  by  the  DistrictCouncil, the removal could only be by it. The contention  onbehalf	of  the	 respondent is that  even  if  the  DistrictCouncil had the power to remove in accordance with the termsand  conditions of the respondent's appointment	 that  powercould  only be exercised by the District Council and not  bythe Executive Committee.  In this connection, rr. 28, 29 and30  of	the  Assam  Autonomous	Districts  (Constitution  ofDistrict Councils) Rules, 1951, are relevant.  Rule 28 veststhe  executive	functions  of the District  Council  in	 theExecutive  Committee.	Rule  29  (1)  gives  power  to	 theExecutive Committee to dispose of all matters falling withinits  purview subject to certain exceptions mentioned  in  r.29(2).	 One  of  these exceptions is with  respect  to	 allimportant appointments.	 Assuming that the office of seem isan important appointment, the Executive Committee could	 notnormally deal with it in view of the exceptions in r. 29(2).But  r.	 30(a)	lays down that	where  immediate  action  inrespect	 of  any of the excepted matters is  necessary,	 theExecutive Committee of a District Council other than that ofthe  Mikhir Hills or the North Cachar Hills, may  take	suchaction	thereon as the emergency appears to it to require  ;but  every  such  case	shall have to  be  laid	 before	 theDistrict Council at its next session.  The order of July  7,1959,  shows that the Executive Committee took action  underr. 30(a) as it considered the matter to be one of emergency.It  is	not for the courts to go into the  question  whetherthere was emergency or not with respect to excepted  mattersand in the circumstances			    767the  action  taken  by the  Executive  Committee  cannot  bechallenged on the ground that it is beyond its power.The  last point that has been urged is that in any case	 theExecutive  Committee could not suspend the  respondent,	 andreliance  in this connection is placed on The Management  ofHotel  Imperial v. Hotel Workers' Union This Court  held  inthat case as under:-"It  was now well settled that the power to suspend, in	 thesense  of  a right to forbid a servant to work,	 is  not  animplied	 term  in an ordinary contract	between	 master	 andservant,  and  that such a power can only  be  the  creatureeither of a statute governing the contract, or of an expressterm  in  the contract itself.	Ordinarily,  therefore,	 theabsence	 of  such  power either as an express  term  in	 thecontract  or  in the rules framed under some  statute  wouldmean  that  the	 master would have no  power  to  suspend  aworkman and even if he does so in the sense that he  forbidsthe  employee to work, he will have to pay wages during	 theso-called  period of suspension.  Where, however,  there  ispower to suspend either in the contract of, employment or inthe  statute or the rules framed thereunder, the  suspensionhas  the  effect of temporarily suspending the	relation  ofmaster and servant with the consequence that the servant  isnot  bound to render service and the master is not bound  topay." It is urged on the basis of these observations that inany case the respondent could not be suspended.	  Suspensionis of two kinds.  In the first place, suspension may be as apunishment,  but the present is not a case of this  kind  ofsuspension  ; in the second place interim suspension may  bemade pending inquiry into a case where removal is the resultsought.	  It was this type of interim suspension  which	 wasdealt  with  in the case of Hotel Imperial (1)	and  it	 waspointed out that without an express term in the contract  orwithout some provision of a statute or the rules there couldnot be interim suspension in the sense that the master couldwithhold the wages of the servant.  But(1)  [1960] 1 S.C.R. 476.768that case did not lay down that the master could not  forbidthe  servant  from working while he was inquiring  into	 hisconduct	 with a view to removing him from  service.  It	 wasspecifically said there that if the master does so,  namely,forbids the servant to work and thus in fact suspends him asan interim measure he will have to pay the wages during	 theperiod	of interim suspension.	These wages or	payment	 forthe work done or emoluments of the office held could not  bewithheld  in whole or in part Unless there is power to	makean  order  of interim suspension either in the	contract  ofemployment or in the statute or the rules framed thereunder.The  effect of that decision is that in the absence of	suchpower the master can pass an order of interim suspension buthe  will have to pay the servant according to the  terms  ofcontract  between  them. ID the present case the  terms	 andconditions communicated to the respondent do not indicate anexpress term giving power to the District Council to make anorder of interim suspension while inquiring into the conductof  the respondent with a view to his ultimate removal.	  Nostatute or rules framed thereunder have been brought to	 ournotice which authorised interim suspension having the effectof  withholding	 remuneration in whole or in part.   In	 thecircumstances	therefore   though  an	order	of   interimsuspension  could  be  made  against  the  respondent  whileinquiry into his conduct with a view to his ultimate removalis  going  on, his remuneration according to the  terms	 andconditions  communicated  to him cannot be  withheld  unlessthere is some statute or rules framed thereunder which wouldjustify	 the  withholding  of  the  whole  or  part  of	 theremuneration.	So far therefore as there is no	 statute  orrule  thereunder the remuneration can. not be withheld	fromthe  respondent even though an order of interim	 suspension,in  the sense he is told not to do the work of	his  office,may  be made against him.  The order of	 interim  suspensiontherefore  passed  in this case on July 7,  1959,  would  bevalid  subject	of course to the respondent being  paid	 thefull   remuneration   unless  the   District   Council	 canlegitimately  withhold	the whole or part of it	 under	somestatute or			    769rules framed thereunder, there being undoubtedly DO  expresscontract to that effect in this case.Before	we part with this case we should like to  point	 outthat  a law has now been passed, namely, The  United  Khasi-Jaintia	  Hills	  Autonomous   District	  (Appointment	 andSuccession  of	Chiefs	and Headmen) Act, 1959	(No.  11  of1959), which came into force in October 1959.  It deals withthe  appointment  of  Chiefs and Headmen as  well  as  theirremoval and suspension (as a punishment).  The word "  Chief" includes a Siem, a Lyngdoh, etc. and the respondent  wouldtherefore  be  a chief within the meaning of  this  Act	 andfurther action may be taken accordingly.We  therefore  allow the appeal with costs,  set  aside	 theorder  of the High Court and direct that further  action  betaken in the manner indicated by us above.SUBBA  RAO  J.-I  agree with the  conclusion.	But  1	haveconsiderable  and  serious doubts on the  question  whether,when the Constitution confers on an authority power to	makelaws  in  respect  of a specific  subject-matter,  the	saidauthority  can	deal with the  same  subject-matter  withoutmaking such a law in its administrative capacity.  I  would,therefore,  prefer  not	 to  express  my  opinion  on	thisquestion.   But I agree with the other two reasons given  bymy   learned  brother,	namely,	 (1)  if  the	respondents'contentions were to prevail, the order of appointment  woulditself be bad, with the result that, the Siem would Dot haveany  right to the office; (2) on October 16, 1959,  an	Act,known as the United Khasi-Jaintia Hills Autonomous  District(Appointment and Succession of Chiefs and Headmen) Act	(No.11 of 1959), was passed and, therefore, there is now a validlaw  empowering the District Council to remove a Siem;	and,as the enquiry in question is only at its initial stage,  itcan  hereafter be validly conducted under the provisions  ofthe said Act.Appeal allowed,770