PETITIONER:MAHESH ANANTRAI PATTANI AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, BOMBAY NORTH, AHMEDABADDATE OF JUDGMENT:29/11/1960BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.HIDAYATULLAH, M.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR  946		  1961 SCR  (2) 742 CITATOR INFO : R	    1963 SC1343	 (13,37,38)ACT:Income	tax-Gift or Remuneration for Past services--Paymentto  retired Dewan of Indian State by Ex-Ruler--Liability  totax--Indian  Income-tax	 Act,  1922 (11	 of  1922),  s.7(1),Explanation (2).HEADNOTE:A  who	was  the  Dewan of the	State  of  Bhavnagar  beforeresponsible  government	 was introduced in  the	 State,	 wasgranted	 a monthly pension of Rs. 2,000 by the	Maharaja  ofthe  State by an order dated January 15, 1948.	On March  1,1948 the State of Bhavnagar was merged in the United  Statesof  Saurashtra and the Maharajah ceased to be the  Ruler  ofthe  State.   Subsequently  on May 31,	1950,  the  Maharajadirected his banker in Bombay to pay A a sum of Rs. 5  lakhsout of the amount lying to his credit and when he was  askedfor instructions as to how that sum was to be entered in thebooks of account he passed an order on December 27, 1950, tothe effect that in consideration of A having rendered  loyaland meritorious services the said sum was given to him as  agift  and that the amount should be debited to his  personalexpense account.  The liability of the above sum for income-tax   was  raised  during  the	course	of  the	  assessmentproceedings  of	 A for the year 1951-52,  and  the  assesseeproduced  a  letter  dated March 10, 1953,  written  by	 theMaharajah  at  the  request of the former,  as	follows:  "Iconfirm	 that in June 1950, I gave you a sum of Rs. 5  lakhswhich  was a gift as a token of my affection and regard	 foryou  and  your family......... The Income-tax  Officer	heldthat the amount was liable to income-tax under S. 7(1), readwith  explanation (2), of the Indian Income-tax	 Act,  1922.The  Appellate Tribunal took into account the two  documentsdated December 27, 1950, and March 10, 1953, written by	 theMaharajah  and	considered  that  the  first  which  clearlymentioned  why	the said sum was paid to the  assessee,	 wasmore  reliable for the reason that it  was  contemporaneous,than  the second which was written more than 2	years  laterand  the  correctness  of which they were  not	inclined  toaccept.	  The  Tribunal agreed with the	 Income-tax  Officerthat the amount was a taxable receipt.Held,	(per   Kapur  and  Shah,  JJ.;	 Hidayatullah,	 J.,dissenting), that on the facts of the case the sum of Rs.  5lakhs  was  given  to  the assessee  not  as  a	 payment  inconsideration of the services already rendered by him as theDewan  of  the State, but merely as a gift in token  of	 theMaharajah's  affection	and regard for	the  assessee,	and,therefore, was not liable to be assessed to tax743under  s.  7(1), explanation (2), of the  Indian  Income-taxAct,1922.The  Tribunal  was in error in treating the  document  datedDecember 27, 1950,'as a contemporaneous document while as  amatter	of fact it was written six months after the fact  ofpayment, and because of this erroneous approach as a  resultof  which the second letter had been rejected,	the  findinggiven by the Tribunal could not be treated as binding on theCourt.P. Krishna Menon v. The Commissioner of Income-tax,  Mysore,Travancore-Cochin  and	Coorg, Bangalore,  [1959]  Supp.   1S.C.R. 133, distinguished.Per  Hidayatullah, J.-The use of the word  "contemporaneous"to describe the order to the banker meant no more than	thisthat  it was earlier in time and very soon after the  amountwas given.  The word "gift" did not alter the nature of pay-ment; the Maharaja indeed made a gift, as he had stated overagain,	but  the  order	 disclosed that it  was	 by  way  ofremuneration for past services.The Tribunal was within its rights in accepting one piece ofevidence  in preference to another, and the finding  on	 theevidentiary value of the letter of the Maharaja was a matteressentially  for  the  Tribunal	 to  decide  finally.	 Thedecision in P. Krishna Menon v. The Commissioner of  Income-tax, Mysore, Travancore-Cochin and Coorg, Bangalore,  [1959]Supp.  11  S.C.R.  133, was  applicable	 and  concluded	 thepresent case.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.232 of 1960.Appeal from the Judgment and Order dated October 6, 1958, ofthe  Bombay  High Court in Income Tax Reference	 No.  10  of1958.R.  J. Kolah, Dwaraka Das, S. N. Andley, Rameshwar Nath,  J.B. Dadachanji and P. L. Vohra for the Appellants.Hardyal Hardy and D. Gupta for the Respondent.1960.	November 29.  The Judgment of J. L. Kapur and J.  C.Shah,  JJ., was delivered by Kapur, J. M. Hidayatullah,	 J.,delivered a separate Judgment.KAPUR, J.-This is an appeal pursuant to a certificate of theHigh Court of Bombay against the judgment and order of	thatCourt in Income-tax Reference No. 10 of 1958, answering	 thequestion  referred  to it against the assesses	whose  legalrepresentatives are744the appellants before, us, the respondent being theCommissioner of Income-tax.The  facts which have given rise to the appeal are that	 thelate  Mr.  Annantrai  P.  Pattani,  hereinafter	 called	 theassessee  was,	by  Hazur Order	 dated	December  10,  1937,appointed  the Chief Dewan of Bhavnagar State.	 On  January15,  1948, the Maharaja of Bhavnagar introduced	 responsibleGovernment  in his State and appointed the assessee  as	 theChairman  of  the Bhavnagar Durbar Bank but he	received  nosalary	for  that post.	 On the same date by  another  HazurOrder the Maharaja granted a monthly pension of Rs. 2,000 tothe  assessee.	 The order was in  the	following  terms:"He  looked  after  us well in our  childhood  and  renderedvaluable  services sincerely and with single-minded  loyaltyto us and our State during extremely difficult period of thelast war and thereafter, which has enhanced the prestige andprosperity of the State and given the State and the people aplace  of  pride in India.  In appreciation of this,  it  is(hereby) decided to grant him a monthly pension of Rs. 2,000two  thousand which is the monthly salary he is	 drawing  atpresent.  Date 22-1-1948."On  May 31, 1950, the Maharaja directed	 Messrs.   PremchandRoychand & Sons, Bombay, with whom he had an account "to payby  cheque to Mr. A.P. Pattani Rs. 5 lacs out of the  amountlying  to the credit of my account with you." This  sum	 waspaid  to the assessee on June 12, 1950.	 It is	stated	thatthe accountant of the Maharaja asked for instructions as  tohow  that  amount of Rs. 5 lacs was to be  adjusted  in	 theaccounts and on December 27, 1950, the Maharajamade the following order:- "In consideration of Shri Annantrai P. Pattani the Ex-Diwanof our Bhavnagar State having rendered loyal and meritoriousservices Rs. 5,00,000 (Rupees Five Lacs) are given to him asgift.  Therefore, it is ordered that the said amount  shouldbe debited to our Personal Expense Account."On  March 1, 1948, Bhavnagar State was merged in the  UnitedStates of Saurashtra and the Maharaja ceased to be the rulerof the said State as from that745date.	The  assessability  of this sum of Rs.	5  lacs	 wasraised	in the course of the assessment proceedings for	 theassessment year 1951-52 and at the request of the'  assesseewhich  is stated to be oral the Maharaja wrote on March	 10,1953, the following:"I  confirm  that in June 1950, 1 gave you a sum  of  rupeesfive  lacs (Rs. 5,00,000) which wag a gift as a token of  myaffection  and regard for you and your family.	This  amountwas paid to you by Premchand Roychand & Sons according to myletter	of  31st May, 1950, from moneys in my  account	withthem."On these facts the Income-tax Officer held that Rs. 5,00,000received on June 12, 1950, was liable to income-tax under s.7(1)  read with explanation (2) of that section as it  stoodbefore the amendment by the Finance Act, 1955.	The assesseetook  an  appeal to the	 Appellate  Assistant  -Commissionerwhich was dismissed.  Against that order an appeal was takento  the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal but the Tribunal	alsodismissed the appeal.  The Tribunal held that looking to thecircumstances  they  would  attach more	 importance  to	 the"contemporaneous  document,  i.e.,  the order  of  the	27thDecember, 1950"; which clearly mentioned why the sum of	 Rs.5,00,000  was  paid to the assessee.  The Tribunal  was	 notinclined  to  "believe in the contents of  that	 letter	 andwould  leave  the matter at that." The reference is  to	 theletter	of the Maharaja dated March 10, 1953.  The  Tribunalfurther held that there was no distinction between the Maha-raja and the State and"assuming  for a moment that this view of ours is not  foundto be correct, still it is clear from the Huzur Order No. 13dated  22-1-1948  (vide	 para 2	 above)	 that  the  assesseerendered  services not only to the State, if it is  distinctfrom.  the  Maharaja but to the Maharaja as well;  for	thatHuzur  Order clearly refers to assessee rendering  "valuableservices sincerely and conscientiously to us and our State".We would, therefore, hold that the amount of Rs. 5 lacs is ataxable	 receipt  falling  under  Section  7(1)	 read	withExplanation  2."  At  the  instance  of	 the  assessee	 thefollowing question of law was referred to the High Court:746"Whether the sum of Rs. 5 lacs has been properly ,brought totax  in	 the hands of the assessee for the  assessment	year1951-52?"and  a further question as to the applicability of  s.	4(3)(vii)  of the Income-tax Act was not referred on the  groundthat it did not arise out of the order of the Tribunal.The  High Court, on the findings given by the Tribunal	cameto  the	 conclusion  that s. 7(1)  explanation	(2)  of	 theIncome-tax Act applied.	 It-held that it was not possible toregard the receipt of this sum of money by the assessee as awindfall  nor  as  a  personal	gift  of  the  nature  of  atestimonial;  that the gift was not made in appreciation  ofthe  personality  or character of the assessee	nor  was  itsymbolical  of its appreciation of his	personal  qualities;that  the consideration for the gift was in terms stated  tobe past services and therefore it could not be treated as  amere  gift by an employer to an employee when the Court	 didnot  know  what motivated the making of that gift.   On	 thefacts  of  the case the High Court reached  the	 conclusion,though	with some reluctance, that the case fell within	 theambit of s. 7(1), Explanation (2).  The High Court also heldthat  this sum could not be exempted from tax on the  groundthat it was merely a casual or nonrecurring receipt  becauseonce  connection with the employment was  established  therewas  no question of considering the recurring or the  casualnature of the receipt.During the pendency of the proceedings in the High Court theassessee  died and his heirs and legal representatives	werebrought on the record and hence they are the appellants.It  was	 argued on behalf of the appellants that  the  factsshowed	that  the  sum	paid cannot  fall  within  s.  7(1),Explanation  (2),  of the Income-tax Act.   By	Hazur  Orderdated  January	22, 1948, the Maharaja had  compensated	 theassessee  for valuable services rendered  and  single-mindedloyalty	 to  the  Maharaja  and	 to  his  State	 during	 thedifficult period of the war and thereafter, which had  addedto  the	 prestige  and	prosperity  of	the  State  and	  inappreciation of that the747Maharaja  had granted to the assessee a monthly	 pension  ofRs.  2,000,  which was paid to the assessee even  after	 themerger	and of the establishment of the.. United  States  ofSaurashtra from out of the public revenue.  At the time whenRs.  5,00,000 were paid, the State of Bhavnagar as such	 hadceased to exist.  The Maharaja was no longer a Ruling  Chiefbut  was the Governor of the State of Madras.  The order  bywhich  Messrs.	 Premchand  Roychand &	Sons,  Bombay,	weredirected  to pay the sum of Rs. 5,00,000 out of the  accountof  the	 Maharaja does not mention any reason  for  payment.When as is alleged an accountant of the Maharaja asked as tohow  that amount of Rs. 5,00,000 was to be adjusted  in	 theaccounts,  the Maharaja wrote on December 27, 1950, what  isdescribed  as an order and directed that the sum  should  bedebited	 to his Personal Expense Account.  It  also  stated,why  it is not clear, that that sum was to be given  to	 theassessee  in  consideration  of	 the  assessee's  loyal	 andmeritorious services as a gift.	 When asked later to clarifythe reasons for making this gift the Maharaja made it  clearthat the gift was as a token of affection and regard for theassessee  and  his family and that the amount  was  paid  byMessrs.	  Premchand Roychand & Sons from out of the  privatemonies of the Maharaja with that firm.The Income-tax Appellate Tribunal took into account the	 twodocuments the first of which has been described as an  orderof   December	27,   1950,   which   was   treated   as   a"contemporaneous document" and the other the letter of March10, 1953, which was about two years later.  The Tribunal didnot accept the correctness of what was stated in the  letterbut  attached a great deal of importance to the document  ofDecember  27,  1950, which the Tribunal thought was  a	con-temporaneous document.It appears to us that the Tribunal was in error in  treatingthe  document  of December 27, 1950,  as  a  contemporaneousdocument and because of this erroneous approach the  findingthat  it  has given cannot be treated as a finding  of	factwhich should bind the court in its decision.  It is  obviousthat the reason why the748Tribunal  attached  all this importance to the	document  ofDecember  27,  1950, was that it  was  contemporaneous.	  Itwould  be  difficult to accept that a document	written	 sixmonths	after  the  fact  of  payment  could  be  termed  ascontemporaneous	 document  particularly when the  object  ofthat  document was only to instruct an accountant as to	 howhe  should  make a particular entry.  The letter  which	 waswritten	 by  the Maharaja on March 10,	1953,  was  rejectedbecause	 of the circumstances of the case one of  which	 wasthe contemporaneous document.  It does not appear to us thatthe  Tribunal  gave sufficient or any consideration  to	 thefact  that  the Maharaja had already passed an	order  of  aliberal and almost generous grant of a pension of Rs.  2,000per mensem which was in lieu of the services rendered by theassessee  both to the State as well as to the  Maharaja	 andhis family and that pension was ordered before the merger ofthe  State  and when the employment of the assessee  as	 theDewan terminated.According  to what was stated in the letter of the  Maharajadated March 10, 1953, the sum of Rs. 5,00,000 was given as agift  in  token of Maharaja's affection and regard  for	 theassessee  and  the assessee's family.  There  is  no  reasonshown  why  the Maharaja should have aided and	abetted	 theassessee in escaping income-tax.  The only reason stated  bythe  Tribunal  is  based on a wrong assumption	as.  to	 thenature of the document of December 27, 1950.The payment of Rs. 5,00,000 was sought to be brought  withinthe purview of s. 7(1) of the Act read with explanation (2).This section at the relevant time provided:-S.  7(1) "The tax shall be payable by an assessee under	 thehead  "Salaries"  in  respect of any salary  or	 wages,	 anyannuity,  pension  or gratuity and  any	 fees,	commissions,perquisites  or profits in lieu of, or in addition  to,	 anysalary or wages, which are due to him from; whether paid  ornot  or	 are  paid by or  on  behalf  of...............	 anyprivate employer...........................Explanation 2: A payment due to or received by749an  assessee from an employer or former employer or  from  aprovident or other fund, is to the extent to, which it	doesnot  consist of contributions by the', assessee or  intereston  such contributions a profit received in lieu  of  salaryfor  the purpose of this subsection, unless the	 payment  ismade  solely as compensation for loss of employment and	 notby	 way	   of	   remuneration	      for	pastservices;........................Counsel	 for the appellants contended that the	payment	 didnot  fall within this section because it was a gift made  onaccount	 of  personal qualifications and was  a	 testimonialunconnected  with any service rendered.	 The submission	 wasthat  the  assessee  had already been  compensated  for	 hisservices  to the Maharaja personally and the State and	thissum  of	 Rs.  5 lacs was a gift in token  of  affection	 andregard and not as a payment in consideration of the servicesalready	 rendered to the State or the Maharaja or both.	  Itwill  not be inappropriate to mention that in  the  documentdated December 27, 1950, it is stated that Rs. 5,00,000	 was-paid  to  the assessee as ex-Dewan of	Bhavnagar  State  inconsideration  of his having rendered loyal and	 meritoriousservices  to  Bhavnagar State.	There is no mention  in	 thedocument of December, 1950, of any services rendered to	 theMaharaja and it does not seem to have been considered by theTribunal  as  to  why the Maharaja should make	out  of	 hispersonal  account  the	gift  of such  a  large	 amount	 forsomething which was not done for the Maharaja  specifically,particularly  when  the	 services to the State	and  to	 theMaharaja  and his family had already been well	compensated.This lends support to the submission of the appellants	thatthe amount was paid merely as a gift in token of  Maharaja'saffection and regard forthe assessee.Mr.  Kolah  for the appellants relied on  several  cases  insupport of his contention that the amount was not liable  totax  under  s.	7.  In Beynon v.  Thorpe  (1)  the  assesseeresigned his position as a Managing Director of the Company;did no work for the company; did(1) [1928] 14 T.C. 1.95750not  attend any Board meetings and received no	remunerationas a Director of the Company.  It was, however, a custom  ofthe  company  to give to its  retiring	employees  voluntarypension	 or allowance and the	 company  voted a pension ofpound  5,000 a year to the assessee but this resolution	 wasrescinded and by another resolution pound 5,000 was voted tothe  assessee" not as or because he is a Director but  as  apersonal  gift".  The assessee was assessed  under  Schedule'E' in respect of both the pension and the final payment butthese  assessments were discharged on appeal by the  SpecialCommissioners who decided that the allowances were gifts  ofpersonal  nature only.	It was hold that the  payments	werenot  income  assessable to income-tax in the  hands  of	 theassessee.  Rowlatt, J., said at p. 14:"Now  the question is whether this ceases to be a mere	giftbecause	 what  has  led	 to it	is  a  past  employment,  anemployment  which has ceased.  It has been. made  abundantlyclear by the Court in Scotland in Duncan's case(1) that thissort of sums received by a person cannot possibly be put  asreceipts  from	his office or in respect of  his  office  oremployment,  and they said in terms of that kind in  a	caselike  this  that  these emoluments  cannot  be	taxed  underSchedule 'E', and I am bound to say I think that goes a verylong  way  to  conclude	 this case.  But  it  is  said	thatnevertheless  they are in respect of the employment.  -Well,it  seems to me that is a complete fallacy.  It	 is  nothingbut a gift moved by the remembrance of past services alreadyefficiently  remunerated as services in them. selves; it  ismerely	a gift moved by that sort of gratitude or that	sortof  moral obligation if you please: it is merely a  gift  ofthat  kind.   In this ease it happens to be very  large;  inmany  cases it is very small, but in all the cases it  seemsto me, whether it is large gift like this or whether it is asmall gift to a humble servant they are exactly on the	samefooting	 as gifts which are made to a child or	gifts  whichare made to any other person whom the giver thinks he  oughtto supply with funds for one reason or another; and as the(1) [1909] 5 T.C. 417751Lord President in Scotland points out it is only a matter ofhistory	 that  the  feeling between the	 parties  which	 hasgenerated the gift arises out of an employment."Mr. Kolah also relied on Reed v. Seymour (1).  In that	casea  committee of a Cricket Club granted a benefit match to  aprofessional cricketer in their service.  Out of the profitsof  the benefit match the beneficiary, who was the  assesseepurchased  a  farm  and assessment was	made  on  him  underSchedule'E' in respect of the proceeds of the benefit  matchbut  this  was	discharged by the  General  Commissioner  onappeal.	 This sum was held to be in the nature of a personalgift  and not assessable *to income-tax.  Viscount  Cave  inhis speech posed the question which Rowlatt, J., put,  i.e.,"is it in the end a personal gift or is it remuneration"; ifthe  latter it is subject to tax, if the former it  is	not.In that case the test applied by Viscount Cave was that	 theterms of the assessee's employment did not en-title him to abenefit;  the purpose for which the amount was paid  was  toexpress gratitude of the employers and of the cricket-lovingpublic for what he had done and in their appreciation of hispersonal qualities.  It was also stated that if the  benefithad taken place after Seymour's retirement no one would havesought	 to  tax  the  proceeds	 as  his  income   and	 thecircumstance  that it was given before but in  contemplationof, retirement does not alter its quality and the whole	 sumwas a testimonial and not a perquisite and therefore it	 wasnot a remuneration for services but a personal gift.Counsel	 also relied on Moorehouse v. Dooland (2).  In	thatcase a cricket professional was employed under a contract inwhich it was provided that collections shall be made for anymeritorious performance by him in accordance with the  rulesfor  the  time being of the employing Cricket  League  Club.The  assessee played twenty matches and on eleven  occasionscollections  were made on his behalf under the rules of	 theClub  and a total sum of pound 48 15s. was collected.	Thiswas sought to be taxed as fees, wages perquisites or profits(1) [1927] XI T.C. 625.	       (2) [1955] 28 I.T.R. 86.752arising from his employment.  It was held that (1) the	testof  liability  to  tax	on  voluntary  payments	 from	 thestandpoint of the person who receives it was that it accruedto him by virtue of his office or employment, i.e., byway ofremuneration  of  his services; (2) that if  the  assessee'scontract  of  employment entitled him to  receive  voluntarypayments  and  (3) that the payment was of  a  periodic	 andrecurring  character.	On  the other hand  if	a  voluntarypayment	 was made in circumstances which showed that it	 wasgiven  by  way	of a present or	 a  testimonial	 on  groundspersonal  to the recipient, the proper conclusion  was	thatthe  payment  was not profit accruing to  the  recipient  byvirtue	of his office or employment but a gift to him as  anindividual paid and received by reason of his personal needsor  by	reason of his personal	qualities.   Applying  theseprinciples the proceeds were by the terms of the contract ofemployment  received by way of remuneration and were  liableto  tax.   In  that case the payment was  treated  as  beingsubject	 to tax because it was substantially in	 respect  ofservices  and  accrued	to the assessee	 by  reason  of	 hisoffice.	  It  is  quite clear that had the gift	 been  as  atestimonial  or	 a  contribution  for  specific	 performancepeculiarly  due to the personal qualities of the  recipient,it would have been treated as a mere present.The next case relied upon was David Mitchell v. Commissionerof  Income-tax	(1)  where the test  laid  was	whether	 thepayment	 was  made in appreciation of .the  personality	 andcharacter  of  the  assessee  or  in  appreciation  of	 theprofessional  services rendered by him in order to give	 himan extra profit over and above the share of profit he  mightget from the firm for the services rendered.Counsel for the respondent argued that the gift made by	 theMaharaja  was  not in respect of personal qualities  of	 therecipient  but was relatable to his office although made  byan ex-employer and was therefore taxable; that the gift	 wasvoluntary is clear but it is not quite clear how the  amountcan  be	 said  to be relatable to the  office  held  by	 therecipient.  Even(1)  [1956] 30 I.T.R. 701.753according to the case of the respondent the amount was	paidabout  two  years  after the assessee had ceased  to  be  anemployee of the Maharaja or the State and immediately on hisceasing to be the Dewan of Bhavnagar State, the Maharaja hadgranted	 him a pension from out of the public funds for	 hisservices to the State as Dewan and for services rendered  tothe  Maharaja  and  his family a  handsome  and	 a  generousmonthly	 pension  of Rs. 2,000 per mensem.  Apart  from	 thefact that the Tribunal relied upon a document which was	 notcontemporaneous,  it seems to have overlooked the fact	thatthere  was  a  gap of two years before	the  amount  of	 Rs.5,00,000 was paid by the Maharaja out of his personal funds.Counsel	 for the respondent relied upon a judgment  of	thisCourt in P. Krishna Xenon v. The Commissioner of Income-tax,Mysore, Travancore-Cochin and Coorg, Bangalore (1).  In thatcase  the  assessee was a teacher who taught  his  disciplesVedanta philosophy without any motive or intention of makingany profit.  One of the disciples made gifts of money to himon  several occasions and it was contended by  the  assesseethat  he was not liable to tax on the amounts received	fromhis disciple as he was not carrying on any vocation.  But itwas  held that in teaching Vedanta philosophy  the  assesseewas carrying on a vocation and that the payments made by thedisciple  were received by the recipient from his  vocation.It  was	 also held that if the voluntary payments  had	beenmade  for  reasons  purely personal to	the  donee  and	 notconnected  with	 his office or vocation, they would  not  betaxable	 but  if they were made because of the	office	theywould  be  taxable.   The question was not  what  the  donorthought	 he  was doing but why the donee received  it.	 Thefirst  thing to notice about that case is that	those  giftswere  not made by the disciple as a gift to mark his  esteemand  affection	for his preceptor but as was stated  by	 thedisciple in his affidavit he had paid those amounts  becausehe  had	 obtained  the	benefit	 of  the  teachings  by	 thepreceptor  on  Vedanta.	 It was found in that case  and	 thedisciple admitted(1)  [1959] Supp. 1 S.C.R. 133.754that  he  had  received benefit from the  teaching  of	hispreceptor and that the gifts that he had made, even   thoughas  a  mark  of esteem and affection,  were  the  result  ofteaching  imparted by the preceptor and because the  amountswere paid to the preceptor as preceptor and the imparting ofthe  teaching  was the causa causans of the  making  of	 thegift,;	it was not merely causa sine qua non.  The  paymentswere repeated and came with some regularity as the  disciplevisited the preceptor for receiving instructions.  It was inthese circumstances that this court held the payments to thepreceptor  as  payments	 because of  the  imparting  of	 theteaching  and  therefore they were income arising  from	 thevocation   of  the  recipient  as  a  teacher	of   Vedantaphilosophy.In  our opinion the sum of Rs. 5,00,000 was not paid to	 theassessee in token of appreciation for the services  renderedas  a Dewan of Bhavnagar- State but as a personal  gift	 forthe  personal  qualities of the assessee and as a  token  ofpersonal esteem.The  appeal is therefore allowed and the order of  the	HighCourt  set aside and the reference is answered	against	 theCommissioner of Income-tax.  The appellants will have  theircosts throughout.HIDAYATULLAH,  J.-I  have had the advantage of	reading	 thejudgment  just delivered by my brother, Kapur, J.  I  regretvery  much my inability to agree that the appeal  should  beallowed	 and the order of the High Court set aside.   In  myopinion, the High Court had correctly answered the  questionreferred to it.The  facts  of the case have been stated in  detail  in	 thejudgment  of my learned brother, and I need not repeat	thembut refer only to some of them briefly.	 On June 12, 1950, asum of Rs. 5 lakhs was given by the Maharaja of Bhavnagar tothe  predecessor of the appellants, who was an	ex-Dewan  ofthe  State.  This was paid by Messrs.  Premchand Roychand  &Sons, Bombay, with whom the Maharaja had an account.   Thereis  no contemporaneous record to show why this	payment	 wasmade;  but  it	appears	 that when  the	 accountant  of	 theMaharaja enquired how the amount755was  to	 be entered in the books of  account,  the  Maharajaissued	an  order  on December 27, 1950,  to  the  followingeffect:"In consideration of Shri Annantrai P. Pattani the  Ex-Diwanof our Bhavnagar State having rendered loyal and meritoriousservices Rs. 5,00,000 (Rupees Five lacs) are given to him asgift.  Therefore, it is ordered that the said amount  shouldbe debited to our Personal Expense Account."After the assessment proceedings had commenced in this case,the  original  assessee	 produced a letter  written  by	 theMaharaja on March 10, 1953, as follows:"I  confirm that in June, 1950, I gave you a sum  of  rupeesfive  lacs (Rs. 5,00,000) which was a gift as a token of  myaffection  and regard for you and your family.	This  amountwas paid to you by Premchand Roychand & Sons according to myletter	of  31st May, 1950, from moneys in my  account	withthem."The question in this case was whether s. 7(1) of the Income-tax Act read with Explanation 2 to that section as it  stoodprior  to  the amendment in 1955, applied to  this  payment.That section, so far as it is material, is as follows:"7(1).	 The tax shall be payable by an assessee  under	 thehead  'Salaries'  in  respect of any salary  or	 wages,	 anyannuity,  pension  or gratuity and  any	 fees,	commissions,perquisites  or profits in lieu of, or in addition  to,	 anysalary	or wages, which are allowed to him by or are due  tohim, whether paid or not, from, or are paid by or on  behalfof any private employer;..........................Explanation  2.-A payment due to or received by an  assesseefrom  an employer or former employer or from a provident  orother fund, is to the extent to which it does not consist ofcontributions	by   the  assessee  or	interest   on	suchcontributions  a profit received in lieu of salary  for	 thepurpose	 of  this  subsection, unless the  payment  is	madesolely as compensation for loss of employment and not by wayof remuneration for past services;.............".To determine whether the second Explanation applies756to  the facts in this case, it has to be found if this	pay-ment was received by the assessee from a former employer  byway of remuneration for past services.	The Tribunal did notaccept the letter of the Maharaja, and observed as follows:"In support of the latter view Mr. Tricumdas strongly reliedupon the letter dated 10-3-1953 addressed by the Maharaja tothe assessee, vide para 2 above.  We have already  indicatedthe  circumstances in which that letter came to	 be  writtenand would merely observe that we find it difficult to  bringourselves  to believe in (sic) the contents of	that  letterand would leave the matter at that."This,	 in   my   opinion,   is   a   finding	 upon	 theevidentiary .value of the letter of the Maharaja, and thoughthe  order  of	the Tribunal is	 worded	 mellifluously,	 theTribunal's  decision is quite clearly that it was  not	per-suaded to accept it.  Indeed, of the two documents,  greaterworth has to be attached to one which was issued before	 thecontroversy started and was written not to the assessee	 butto  the Maharaja's accountant who enquired how	the  accountwas  to be adjusted.  The use of the word  'contemporaneous'to  describe the order to the accountant meant no more	thanthis  that  it was earlier in time and very soon  after	 theamount	was given.  The Tribunal did not rely on any  extra-neous evidence in reaching its conclusion, but on  somethingwhich  had proceeded from the Maharaja himself.	 The  motiveof  the Maharaja may be irrelevant, because what has  to  beseen  is  not  why the payment was made	 but  for  what	 theassessee  had received it.  The Maharaja no doubt  had	beengenerous in fixing the pension at Rs. 2,000 per month.	 Butthe  payment of such a large sum was not just bounty but  toreward the past services, which judged from the scale of thepension	 had not adequately been paid for in the -past.	  Inthis connection, the words of the Maharaja himself (and whatbetter evidence can there be?) were that the amount was paid"in consideration of Shri Annantrai P. Pattani the  Ex-Dewanof our Bhavnagar State having rendered loyal and meritoriousservices Rs. 5,00,000 are given to him as gift".757The  word  gift' does not alter the nature of  the  payment.The  Maharaja  indeed  made a gift, as he  had	stated	overagain;	but this order quite clearly disclosees that it	 wasby  way	 of  remuneration  for	past  services.	  The  case,therefore,  falls within the ruling of the a  Supreme  Courtreported in P. Krishna Menon v. The Commissioner of  Income-tax, Mysore, Travancore-Cochin and Coorg, Bangalore (1), andis  indistinguishable from it.	In the earlier case of	thisCourt,	the person who gave the money did not  even  mentionany  past  services; but this Court found that	because	 therecipient had taught him Vedanta philosophy, the payment wasreally in the nature of remuneration for past services.The  facts  in	P. Krishna Menon's case (1)  were  that	 theassessee  was  teaching	 his  disciples	 Vedanta  philosophywithout	 any motive or intention of making a profit  out  ofsuch activity.	One J. H. Levy who used to go to  Travancorefrom England at intervals attended his teachings.  Levy	 hadan account with Lloyd's Bank at Bombay, and on December	 31,1944, Levy transferred the entire amount of Rs. 2,41,103-11-3 to the credit of an account which Levy got the assessee toopen in his' own name.	Levy made further remittances and byAugust	19, 1951, had paid about Rs. 4,50,000.	It was	heldby this Court that the assessee was carrying on a  vocation.In deciding the question whether the amounts were assessableto tax, this Court observed as follows:-"...it	seems  to us that the present case is too  plain  torequire	 any  authority.   The only point  is,	whether	 themoneys	were  received	by the appellant by  virtue  of	 hisvocation.   Mr. Sastri contended that the facts showed	thatthe  payments  were  purely personal  gifts.   He  drew	 ourattention  to the affidavit of Levy where it is stated	'allsums of money paid into his account by me have been gifts tomark  my  esteem  and affection for him	 and  for  no  otherreason'.  But Levy also there said, 'I have had the  benefitof  his teachings on Vedanta'.	It is important to  rememberhowever that the point is not what the donor(1)  [1959] Supp.  1 S.C.R. 133.96758thought he was doing but why the donee received	 it".Sarkar,	 J., then referred to the dictum of Collins, M.	 R.,in Herbert v. Mc-Quade (1), which may be quoted here:"Now  that  judgment, whether or not  the  particular  factsjustified it, is certainly an -affirmation of a principle oflaw  that a payment may be liable to income-tax although  itis  voluntary  on the part of the persons who made  it,	 andthat the test is whether, from the standpoint of the  personwho receives it, it accrues to him in virtue of his  office;if  it does, it does not matter whether it was voluntary  orwhether	 it  was compulsory on the part of the	persons	 whopaid it. That seems to me to be the test; and if we once getto  this-that the money has come to or accrued to, a  personby virtue of his office-it seems to me that the liability toincome-tax  is	not negatived merely by reason of  the	factthat  there  was  no legal obligation on  the  part  of	 thepersons who contributed the money to pay it."The  learned  Judge  also referred to  the  observations  ofRowlatt, J., in Reed v. Seymour (2) and of Viscount Cave, L.C.,  in	 Seymour  v. Reed (3), and observed  that  the	realquestion  was,	is the payment in the nature of	 a  personalgift  or is it a remuneration?, and quoted as the reply	 thewords  of the Lord Chancellor-"If the latter, it is  subjectto  the	 tax; if the former, it is not."  Sarkar,  J.,	alsoreferred to the observations of Lord Ashbourne in  Blakistonv. Cooper (4), which were:"It  was suggested that the offerings were made as  personalgifts  to  the Vicar as marks of esteem and  respect.	Suchreasons	 no  doubt  played  their  part	 in  obtaining	 andincreasing  the amount of the offerings, but I cannot  doubtthat  they  were given to the vicar as vicar and  that	theyformed	part  of  the  profits accruing	 by  reason  of	 hisoffice.", and concluded as follows:"We have no doubt in this case that the imparting(1)  [1902] 2 K.B. 631.(3)  [1927] A.C. 554.(2)  [1926] 1 K.B. 588.(4)  [1909] A.C. 104.759of  the teaching was the causa causans of the making of	 thegift; it was not merely a causa sine qua non.  The  paymentswere  repeated and came with the same regularity  as  Levy'svisits	to  the	 appellant  for	 receiving  instructions  inVedanta.    We	do  not	 feel  impressed  by  Mr.   Sastri'scontention  that the first payment of Rs. 2,41,103-11-3	 wastoo  large a sum to be paid as consideration.  In any  case,we are not concerned in this case with that payment.  We areconcerned  with payments which are of much  smaller  amountsand  as	 to which it has not been said that  they  were	 toolarge to be a consideration for the teaching.  And one	mustnot  forget that these are cases of voluntary  payments	 andthe  question  of  the	appraisement of	 the  value  of	 theteaching  received in terms of money is not  very  material.If  the first payment was too big to have been paid for	 theteaching received, it was too big to have been given  purelyby way of gift."In my opinion, the case of this Court concludes the  matter,and  the  Tribunal was within its rights  in  accepting	 onepiece of evidence in preference to another, and the  findingon the evidentiary value of the letter of the Maharaja was amatter	essentially for the Tribunal to decide	finally.   Ithus agree with the High Court in the answer which it  gave,in agreement on facts with the Tribunal, and the reasons forwhich the answer was given.I would, therefore, dismiss the appeal with costs.BY COURT: In view of the majority judgment of the Court, theappeal is allowed with costs throughout.				     Appeal allowed.760