PETITIONER:THE NAGPUR ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWERCO., LTD. & OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:K.   SHREEPATHIRAODATE OF JUDGMENT:11/04/1958BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.BOSE, VIVIANDAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1958 AIR  658		  1959 SCR  463ACT:Termination  of	 Service-Company  Employee-Standing   Orders-Construction-Employees and workmen-Distinction.HEADNOTE:The services of the respondent, an employee of the appellantcompany,  were	terminated in accordance with  the  StandingOrders	 of  the  company,  approved  by   the	 appropriateauthorities   under   the  provisions  of   the	  IndustrialEmployment  (Standing  Orders) Act, 1946,  and	the  CentralProvinces  and	Berar Industrial  Disputes  Settlement	Act,1947.	Standing Order NO. 2(a) defined " employees "  as  "all  persons ... employed in the Office or Mains  Departmentor  Stores  or	Power  House or	 Receiving  Station  of	 theCompany	 ... whose names and ticket numbers are included  inthe departmental musters ". The Standing Orders also definedthe term " workman " and provided that every workman  shouldhave a ticket.	No ticket had been issued to the  respondentby  the company, and consequently his ticket number was	 notincluded   in  the  departmental  muster.   The	  respondentchallenged  the	 validity  of  the  order  terminating	 hisservices by an application made before the High Court  underArt.  226  of the Constitution on the grounds,	inter  alia,that the Standing Orders in question were confined to  thoseemployees  only to whom tickets were issued, and that as  noticket	was issued to him he was not an employee within	 themeaning of the Standing Orders which did not therefore applyto  him and, consequently, the termination of  his  servicesunder Standing Order No. 16(1) was illegal:Held,  (1) that the words " whose names and  ticket  numbersare  included  in the departmental musters  "  occurring  inStanding Order NO. 2 (a) should be read as " whose names andticket	numbers,  if any, are included in  the	departmentalmusters ";Cortis v. The Kent Water Works Company (1827) 7 B. & C. 314;108 E. R. 741 and Perumal Goundan v. The  Thirumalarayapuramjananukoola Dhanasekhara Sangha Nidhi, (1918) I.L.R. 4I Mad.624, applied.(2)that under the Standing Orders, in which a distinction ismade between 'employees' and 'workmen', while every  workmanmust  have a ticket, there may be employees who may have  notickets	 the  possession  of  which  is	 not  an   essentialcharacteristic of an employee; and,(3)that	 the  Standing Orders apply to all  employees  forwhose benefit they have been made.464Accordingly,  the  Standing Orders were	 applicable  to	 therespondent and the termination of his service in  accordancewith Standing Order No. 16(1) was valid and, therefore,	 theapplication made by him to the High Court must fail.JUDGMENT:CIA, IL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.5 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedSeptember  26,	1956,  of the former Nagpur  High  Court  inLetters	 Patent	 Appeal No. 66 of 1956, arising out  of	 thejudgment  and order dated April 14, 1956, of the  said	HighCourt in Misc.	Petition No. 6 of 1956.M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General of India, B. Sen, D.	  B.Padhya and I. N. Shroff, for the appellants.R. V. S. Mani, for the respondent.1958.  April II.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byS.K.  DAS  J.-This is an appeal by  special  leave.   Theappellants before us are the Nagpur Electric Light and PowerCo. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as the Company), a  publiclimited	 company having its registered office at  Nagpur  inMadhya	Pradesh,  its Manager, and Assistant  Manager.	 Therespondent,  Shreepathi	 Rao,  joined  the  service  of	 theCompany as a typist on a salary of Rs. 30 per month in July,1936.	He rose in rank from time to time and was  appointedDeputy	Head Clerk in 1947 in the grade of  Rs.	 120-10-225.Since  1952 he has been receiving a basic salary of Rs.	 245per month.  On November 28, 1955, an explanation was  calledfor  from him with regard to the issue of certain  bills  toconsumers of electricity called ".high tension consumers  ",without	 having	 certain  " notes  for	the  information  ofconsumers  "  printed  at  the	back  of  the  bills.	 Therespondent  submitted  his  explanation	 on  the  next	day,marking	 a  copy  thereof to one of  the  directors  of	 theCompany.  On December 2,1955, he was again asked to  explainwhy  he	 marked	 a copy of his explanation  to	one  of	 thedirectors.   The  respondent  submitted	 an  explanation  inrespect of this matter also.  On the same date, hewas  again  asked  to explain as to how and  why  certain  "double	adjustments " had been made in the accounts of	1954relating  to the consumers' department of the  Company,	 theallegation  being  that	 a sum	of  Rs.	 1,05,894-7-7  whichrepresented  the amount of bills of the Central Railway	 hadbeen  deducted	twice  in  the	accounts.   The	  respondentsubmitted  an explanation on December 3, 1955, in  which  hesaid that the charge was vague and that, after 1949, he	 wasnot  in any way concerned with the preparation of  summariesand   annual  statements  of  accounts	of   the   consumersdepartment.  On December 5, 1955, an order of suspension wasmade against the respondent which stated that the order	 wasto  take  immediate  effect and to  remain  in	force  untilfurther	 orders,  pending  some	 investigation	against	 therespondent.   Two  days	 later,	 on  December  7,  1955,   amemorandum  was	 served on the	respondent  terminating	 hisservices with effect from January 31,1956.  The	 memorandum,so far as it is relevant for our purpose, read-We  hereby give you notice under Standing Order	 16(1)	thatyour  services will stand terminated as from  31st  January,1956.The Company's Managing Director is satisfied that it is	 notin the interests of the business of the Company to  disclosereasons' for terminating your services."On December 19, 1955, a notice was served on the Company  onbehalf	of  the respondent wherein it was  stated  that	 theorder of suspension dated December 5, 1955, and the order oftermination  dated December 7, 1955, were illegal and  ultravires and a request was made to withdraw the said orders andreinstate the respondent within 24 hours, failing which	 therespondent  said  that	he would take legal  action  in	 thematter.	  On December 26, 1955, the Company sent a reply  tothe notice denying the allegations, and the company  furtherstated that it had no desire to enter into a discussion withthe respondent as to the propriety of the orders passed.On  January 2, 1956, the respondent filed a  petition  underArt. 226 of the Constitution in the High Court466at  Nagpur in which he prayed for the issue  of	 appropriatewrits  or directions quashing the orders of  suspension	 andtermination  dated December 5, 1955, and December  7,  1955,respectively  and  asking for certain other  reliefs.	Thispetition  was  heard by a learned single  Judge	 on  certainpreliminary  objections	 raised by the	present	 appellants,and,  by  an  order  dated April 14,  1956,  he	 upheld	 thepreliminary  objections	 and dismissed	the  petition.	 Thepreliminary  objections taken were these: it was urged	thatthe  service of the respondent was terminated in  accordancewith  the  Standing Orders of the Company, approved  by	 therelevant authorities under the provisions of the  IndustrialEmployment  (Standing  Orders)	Act,  1946  (XX	 of   1946),hereinafter  referred to as the central Act, and also  underthe provisions of the Central Provinces and Berar IndustrialDisputes Settlement Act, 1947 (C.  P. and Berar Act XXlll of1947),	hereinafter  called  the  local	 Act;  and  if	 therespondent  had	 any  grievance against	 the  said  StandingOrders,	 his  only  remedy was to get  the  Standing  Ordersamended	 as provided for in the relevant Act, but he had  noright  to  move	 the  High  Court  under  Art.	226  of	 theConstitution  for quashing the orders passed against him  orfor reinstatement, etc.	 Alternatively, it was urged that ifthe  Standing  Orders  did  not apply in  the  case  of	 therespondent  as was the respondent's case, then the  Ordinarylaw  of master and servant applied, and the only  remedy  ofthe  respondent	 was  to  sue the  Company  in	damages	 forwrongful  dismissal.   On these preliminary  objections	 thelearned	 Judge	held  (1) that the  respondent	was  not  anemployee  within  the  meaning of the  Standing	 Orders	 andtherefore his case was not governed by the Standing  Orders;(2)  that  the relationship between the appellants  and	 therespondent was contractual and not statutory and the  remedyof  the	 respondent was to sue the Company  in	damages	 forwrongful dismissal; and (3) as for amendment of the StandingOrders	so as to include the respondent and persons  in	 hiscategory, the only remedy open to the respondent was to takeaction	under the relevant Act by approaching  a  recognisedunion to move in the matter.		     467On  the dismissal of his petition, the respondent  preferredan  appeal under el. 10 of the Letters Patent.	This  appealwas  heard and allowed by a Division Bench on September	 26,1956,  on the findings that (1) the Standing Orders did	 notapply  to the respondent, though he was an  employee  withinthe meaning of that expression in s. 2 (1) of the local	 Act;  (2)	the  conditions of  the	 respondent's  service	weregoverned by the provisions of the local Act and on a  breachthereof,  the respondent had a right to move the High  Courtfor  appropriate orders under Art. 226 of the  Constitution;and (3) as the termination of the service of the  respondentwas  without statutory authority, it must be  vacated.	 TheDivision  Bench accordingly allowed the appeal, quashed	 theorders of suspension and termination of service and declaredthat  the  respondent  continued to bean  employee   of	 theCompany on terms which were applicable to him on the date ofhis suspension, namely, December 5, 1955.  There was also  adirection   to	the  Company  to  pay  back  wages  to	 therespondent.The  appellants	 herein then moved this Court  and  obtainedspecial	 leave	to  appeal from the order  of  the  DivisionBench,	dated  September 26, 1956.  The present	 appeal	 hasbeen  brought  in pursuance of the  order  granting  specialleave to the appellants.The first and foremost question which arises for decision inthis  appeal is whether the Standing Orders of	the  Companyapply  to the respondent.  We have already stated-and it  isnot  in dispute--that the Standing Orders were	approved  bythe  certifying officer under the provisions of the  centralAct and by the Labour Commissioner under s. 30 of the  localAct.  It is necessary to explain here the general scheme  ofthe  provisions	 of the two Acts under	which  the  StandingOrders were approved.  Under the central Act, the expression" Standing Orders " means rules relating to matters set	 outin  the Schedule, and s. 3 requires that within	 six  monthsfrom the date on which the central Act becomes applicable toan industrial establishment the employer shall submit to thecertifying officer five copies of the draft Standing  Ordersproposed by him468for  adoption in his industrial establishment.	 Sub-section(2)  of s. 3 lays down that provision shall be made in	suchdraft for every matter set out in the Schedule which may  beapplicable  to the industrial establishment and where  modelStanding  Orders have been prescribed, the draft  shall	  sofar  as	 practicable, in conformity with  such	model.	 TheSchedule  refers to the matters which are to he provided  byStanding  Orders,  and item 8 of the Schedule relates  to  "termination  of	 employment, and the notice  thereof  to  begiven  by  employer and workman We may state here  that	 thecentral	 Act contains a definition of " workman " which,  atthe material time in this case, meant any person employed inany industrial establishment to do any skilled or unskilled,manual	or clerical, labour for hire or reward, but did	 notinclude any member of the armed forces.	 Sections 4 to 10 ofthe  central Act deal with (a) conditions for  certificationof  Standing Orders, (b) certification of  Standing  Orders,(e)  appeals, (d) date of operation of Standing Orders, (e)register of Standing Orders, (f) posting of Standing  Ordersand (g) duration and modification of Standing Orders.  Thereare similar provisions in the local Act,Chapter IV of  whichdeals  with Standing Orders.Sub-section (1) of s. 30 of	 thelocal Act lays down--Every employer, in respect of any industry to which this Acthas been made applicable under subsection (3) of section  1,shall, within two months of the (late of such  notification,submit	to  the Labour Commissioner for	 approval,  in	suchmanner	as may be prescribed, a copy of the Standing  Ordersconcerning the relations between him and his employees	withregard to all industrial matters mentioned in Schedule 1. "Item 8 of Schedule I of the local Act is again " terminationof  employment, notice to be given by employer and  employee". The other sub-sections of s. 30 lay down the procedure tobe  followed  for  the approval of Standing  Orders  by	 theLabour	Commissioner,  appeal by an aggrieved  person,	etc.Sections  31 and 32 lay down the procedure for an  amendmentof  the	 Standing  Orders  either at  the  instance  of	 theemployer or at the469instance of a representative of employees.  It is worthy  ofnote  that  sub-s. (1) of s. 30 requires every	employer  tosubmit	to  the Labour Commissioner a copy of  the  StandingOrders	 concerning  the  relations  between  him  and	 hisemployees with regard to all industrial matters mentioned inSchedule 1. The local Act defines the expression "  employee" and, at the relevant time, it meant any person employed byan  employer  to  do any skilled  or  unskilled,  manual  orclerical  work	for  contract  or  hire	 or  reward  in	 anyindustry.   It	is worthy of note that the definition  of  "employee " in the local Act corresponds more or less to	 thedefinition of " workman " under the central Act.  There	 aresome minor differences in the definition of the two  expres-sions in the two Acts, but with those differences we are notconcerned in the present case.The  Standing  Orders  with which we are  concerned  in	 thepresent case came into force on November 14, 1951, and it isconvenient  at this stage to refer to the relevant  StandingOrders.	  Standing Order no. 2 defines	certain	 expressionsused in the Standing Orders.  It states-In  these Orders, unless there is anything repugnant in	 thesubject or context(a)  "	employees  "  means all	 persons,  male	 or  female,employed  in  the Office or Mains Department  or  Stores  orPower  House or Receiving Station of the Company, either  atNagpur	or  at	Wardha whose names and	ticket	numbers	 areincluded in the departmental  musters.(b)  " The Manager " means the person appointed as such andincludes  the  Assistant Manager and in relation  to  Wardhaestablishment " the Resident Engineer ".(c)  " Ticket " includes a Card, pass or token.(d)  "	Workman " means such categories of employees as	 mayfrom  time  to	time be declared to be " Workman  "  by	 theManagement ".Standing  Order	 no.  3 classifies  employees  into  certaincategories and Standing Order no. 4 deals with tickets.	  Insubstance, it says that every workman, permanent6470or temporary, shall have a ticket or card, and an apprenticeshall  have an apprentice card; the tickets or cards  issuedshall  be  surrendered	when the workman  is  discharged  orceases	to belong to the class of employment for  which	 thecard  or ticket is issued.  It is to be noticed	 that  underthe  definition clause " workman " means such categories  ofemployees  as  may  from time to time  be  declared,  to  beworkmen by the management and Standing Order no. 4 makes  itclear that every workman, permanent or temporary, will	havea  ticket.  Standing Order no. 16 deals with termination  ofemployment,  and cl. (1) thereof, relevant for our  purpose,must be quoted in full-" For terminating the employment of a permanent employee,  anotice	in writing shall be given either by the employer  orthe  employee,	giving	one calendar  month's  notice.	 Thereasons	 for  the  termination	of  the	 services  will	  becommunicated to the employee in writing, if he so desires atthe  time of discharge, unless such a communication, in	 theopinion	 of the Management, may directly or  indirectly	 laythe  company  and the Management or the person	signing	 thecommunication  open to criminal or civil proceedings at	 theinstance of the employee, or the Company's Managing Directoris satisfied that it is not in the interests of the businessof  the	 Company to disclose the reasons and  so  orders  inwriting.  "Now, it is not in dispute that the respondent is a 'workman'within	the meaning of the Central Act and an 'employee'  asdefined in the local Act.  The. controversy before us is  asto  whether  he is an  employee' within the meaning  of	 theStanding  Orders.  Admittedly, no ticket has been issued  tothe  respondent	 by the Company; his ticket  number  cannot,therefore,  be	included in the	 departmental  muster.	 Thelearned Judges of the High Court held that the inclusion  ofthe name and ticket number in the departmental muster was anessential  characteristic of an ' employee' as	defined	 forthe  purpose  of the Standing Orders, and the mere  fact  ofemployment  in the Office, Mains Department,  Stores,  PowerHouse or Receiving Station of the Company was not enough  tomake a,471person	so employed an 'employee' within the meaning of	 theStanding  Orders, and as the respondent did not	 fulfil	 thenecessary  condition  of having his name and  ticket  numberincluded  in  the  departmental'  muster,  he  was  not	  an'employee' as defined for the Standing Orders, which did nottherefore apply to him.	 On behalf of the appellants, it  iscontended  that	 regard	 being had to the  context  and	 theentire	body of the Standing Orders, the aforesaid  view  ofthe High Court is not correct, and on a proper construction,inclusion of the name and ticket number in the	departmentalmuster	is not an essential characteristic of an  'employee'as  defined for the Standing Orders.  It is rightly  pointedout  that if the possession of a ticket and a ticket  numberis  taken as an essential characteristic of an '  employee',then  there is hardly any difference between  an  'employee'and a 'workman' as defined in the Standing Orders; because a'workmen'  means  such categories of employees as  may	fromtime  to time be declared to be workmen, and under  StandingOrder no. 4 all workmen must have tickets.  If a person	 em-ployed by the company must have a ticket before he can be anemployee, and if workmen are such categories of employees ashave  tickets,	the distinction between the  two  disappearsand. it is difficult to understand why two definitions	werenecessary.On  a consideration, however, of' the subject or context  ofthe  Standing Orders, read in their entirety and in  harmonywith  one  another,  it	 becomes  at  once  clear  why	 twodefinitions  are  necessary  and  what	is  the	 distinctionbetween the two classes-, employees ' and ' workmen'-in	 thelanding Orders.	 The expression ' employee' denotes a largergroup-namely, all persons, male or females who are  employedin  the	 Office, Mains Department, Stores, Power  House,  orReceiving  Station  of	the Company,  either  at  Nagpur  orWardha.	  'Workmen'  denotes  a smaller	 group,	 viz.,	suchcategories of employees as have been declared to be workmen,and  who must have a ticket.  Such a distinction is  clearlyintelligible  in  an  industrial  establishment,  where	 forsecurity and other reasons a system of tickets or passes  isnecessary for those who472work in the Power House or Mains Department or other  placeswhere essential machinery is installed while others, such asthe  clerical  staff, may work in an office  building  wheresecurity  demands  are	either	nonexistent  or	 much	lessinsistent.   This distinction means that all  'workmen'	 are'employees', but all ` employees' are not 'workmen' for	 thepurpose of the Standing Orders, and the inclusion of  ticketnumbers	 in the departmental musters will be  applicable  tothose  employees only to whom tickets have been issued;	 butsuch  inclusion	 is not an essential  characteristic  of  anemployee.Let us now see if such a distinction is consistent with	 theStanding  Orders  as a whole.  Standing Order no.  3,  whichclassifies  employees, defines a probationer in cl. (c)	 andsays  that a probationer means an employee who is  appointedin  a clear vacancy on probation for a period not  exceedingtwelve	months, etc.  Standing Order no. 4 does not  requirethe issue of a ticket to a probationer; yet a probationer isan employee.  It is thus obvious that the Standing Orders domake a distinction between `employees' and  ` workmen',	 andthere  may also be employees who have no tickets.   Some  ofthe  Standing Orders apply to workmen only, e. g.,  StandingOrders	12, 13, 14 and 15.  Other Standing Orders  apply  toall  employees, whether they are workmen or  not.   StandingOrder  no. 16 falls in the latter category ; it	 applies  toall employees.Standing Order no. 8 (b), we think, makes the position stillmore clear.  It says-"  Any	employee,  who	after  marking	his  attendance	  orpresenting  his ticket, card, or token, as the case may	 be,is found absent from his proper place of work during workinghours  without permission or without any sufficient  reason,shall  be liable to be treated as absent for the  period  ofhis absence."If  every employee has to have a ticket, it is difficult  tounderstand why this Standing Order should make a distinctionbetween an employee who marks his attendance and another whopresents  his ticket, card or token.  Such a distinction  iseasily	understandable when some employees do not possess  aticket, card or token,473so  that they merely mark their attendance; while those	 whopossess a ticket, card or token present it.It  has	 been  suggested that Standing Order no.  4  is	 notexhaustive in the matter of issue of tickets; it talks of anissue  of  a ticket to every permanent workman,	 a  card  toevery  badli workman, a temporary ticket to every  temporaryworkman,  and  an apprentice card to every  apprentice.	  Itdoes not prescribe the issue of a pass or token, though	 thedefinition  of	a 'ticket' includes a pass  or	token.	 Thesuggestion  further is that Standing Order no. 2 (a)  itselfauthorises the issue of tickets to other employees, so	thatthere  may  be one kind of tickets issued to  workmen  understanding  Order no. 4 and another kind of tickets  to  otheremployees under Standing Order no. 2 (a).  On this view, it,is  suggested  that the alternatives mentioned	in  StandingOrder  no.  8  (b) really amount to an option  given  to  anemployee  either  to  mark his	attendance  or	present	 histicket.	  It  is,  however,  difficult	to  understand	 thenecessity of an option of this kind when every employee musthave  a	 ticket, particularly when the exercise of  such  anoption	is  likely  to defeat the  very	 purpose  for  whichtickets	 are issued in an industrial establishment.   We  donot,  however, think that the case of the respondent  is  inany  way strengthened by holding that Standing Order  no.  2(a)  itself  authorises the issue of  tickets  to  employeesother than workmen.  Even on that construction, the  failureof  the Company to issue tickets under Standing Order no.  2(a)  will not deprive the employees of their real status  asemployees  and of the benefit of the Standing  Orders.	 Thedirection for the issue of tickets will, in that view of theStanding  Order,  be an enabling provision only and  not  anessential characteristic of an employee.  Further,  StandingOrder  no.  4 provides for the surrender of  tickets  issuedthereunder but Standing Order no. 2 (a), if it is  construedas enabling the Company to issue tickets, makes no provisionfor the surrender of tickets when the employee ceases to  bean  employee.  This absence of any provision  for  surrenderapplicable to such tickets474clearly implies that issue of tickets is not contemplated bythe Standing Order no. 2 (a) itself.On behalf of the respondent, however, the main argument	 hasbeen  of  a different character.  It has  been	argued	thatthere  need  not  be  one set of  Standing  Orders  for	 allemployees,  and	 the  Standing	Orders	in  question   beingconfined to those employees to whom tickets had been issued,the respondent who had no ticket was outside their  purview,and  the result was that the Company had committed a  breachof the statutory provision in s. 30 of the local Act in	 thesense  that no Standing Orders had been made in	 respect  ofthe  respondent and employees like him to whom	tickets	 hadnot  been  issued.  It hag been argued that,  therefore,  noaction	could be taken against the respondent  either  underthe Standing Orders or even under the ordinary law of masterand  servant.	We  are unable to accept  this	argument  ascorrect.   We  have  pointed out that  the  Standing  Ordersthemselves make a distinction between 'employees' and `work-men',  and there may also be employees who have no  tickets.To  hold that the Standing Orders apply to  those  employeesonly  to whom tickets have been issued will  make  employeessynonymous  with workmen-a result negatived by two  separatedefinitions  given in Standing Order no. 2. The central	 Actas well as the local Act contemplate the making of  StandingOrders	for  all employees in respect of matters  which	 arerequired to be dealt with by Standing Orders.  The  StandingOrders	in question were not objected to as being  defectiveor incomplete by workmen, and they have been approved by theappropriate  authority	and  they  must	 be  construed	withreference  to their subject or context.	 In the	 absence  ofcompelling  reasons to the contrary, it should be held	thatthey apply to all employees for whose benefit they have beenmade.	We  see no compelling reasons for holding  that	 theStanding  Orders  do not apply to the  respondent.   In	 ourview,  and  having regard to the subject or context  of	 theStanding  Orders, the words whose names and  ticket  numbersare included in the departmental musters " in Standing Orderno. 2 (a) do475not  lay down any essential characteristic of  employee	 andare applicable only in cases where tickets have been  issuedto an employee.	 The essential content of the definition  ofan  employee is employment in the Office, Mains	 Department,eta., of the Company either at Nagpur or Wardha, and that ofa  workman  the necessary declaration by the  Company  whichwould entitle him to a ticket under Standing Order no. 4.There  is also another relevant consideration which must  beborne in mind in construing the Standing Orders in question.Section	 30 of the local Act imposes a statutory  obligationon  the employer to make, Standing Orders in respect of	 allhis  employees	and  a breach of  the  statutory  obligationinvolves  a  criminal liability.  That being so,  the  courtwould be justified, if it can reasonably do so, to  construethe  Standing Orders so as to make them consistent with	 thecompliance of the said statutory obligation.We  are not unmindful of the principle that in construing  astatutory  provision or rule, every word  occurring  thereinmust be given its proper meaning and weight.  The  necessityof  such  an interpretation is all the more important  in  adefinition clause.  But even a definition clause must deriveits  meaning from the context or subject.  In Courts v.	 TheKent Waterworks Company (1), the question for  considerationwas  the interpretation of the appeal clause in an  Act	 forPaving, Cleansing, Lighting, etc., of the Town and Parish ofWoolwich  (47  Geo. III, Sess. 2, cap.	CXI).  By  the	16thsection	 of  the statute, " the commissioners  are  to	makerates  upon  all and every the person or persons who  do  orshall  hold,  occupy,  possess, etc., any  land	 within	 theparish	".  The statute also gave a right of appeal  to	 anyperson	or  persons aggrieved by any rate., but	 the  appealclause	required the person or persons appealing  against  arate to enter into a recognisance; the question was if	thisrequirement  was intended to exclude corporations  from	 thepurview	 of  the ap. peal clause, as  corporations,  it	 wasurged,	cannot enter, into a recognisance.  In	interpretingthe appeal clause, Bayley J. observed-(1) (1827) 7 B. & C. 314; 108 E. R, 741.476"But  assuming that they cannot enter into  a  recognizance,yet  if they ire persons capable of being aggrieved  by	 andappealing against a rate, I should say that that part of theclause which gives the appeal applies to all persons capableof  appealing, and that the other part of the  clause  whichrequires  a recognizance to be entered into applies only  tothose	persons	  who  are  capable  of	 entering   into   arecognizance, but is inapplicable to those who are not."The same principle of interpretation was applied in  PerumalGoundan	 v. The Thirumalarayapuram Jananukoola	DhanasekharaSangha	Nidhi  (1),  in construing  the	 Explanation  to  O.XXXIII,	 r.  1, of the Code of Civil Procedure,	 which	saysinter  alia that " a person is a pauper............ when  heis  not entitled to property worth one hundred rupees  otherthan his necessary wearing apparel and the subject matter ofthe  suit  ". The question was if  the	aforesaid  provisionapplied to companies.  It was held that it would be wrong toconstrue the provision to mean that only persons who possesswearing apparel can sue as paupers.  We are of the view thatthe  same rule of construction should apply in	the  presentcase,  and  the words " whose names and ticket	numbers	 areincluded  in  the  depart. mental  musters  "  occurring  inStanding Order no. 2(a) should be read as " whose names	 andticket	numbers,  if any, are included in  the	departmentalmusters	 " and should apply in the case of  those  employeesonly  who  possess  tickets and	 whose	ticket	numbers	 arecapable	 of being entered in departmental musters; they	 arenot intended to exclude employees who do not possess ticketsor  to	whom tickets have not been issued  and	consequentlywhose names only are so entered.The learned Judges of the High Court were influenced by	 thecircumstance that in an earlier- case D. C. Dungore v. S. S.Dandige	 Miscellaneous Petition No. 134 of 1954	 decided  bythe same High Court on September 23, 1955) the Company	tooktip the stand that the Standing Orders applied to  employeesto  Whom tickets had been issued-a stand different from	 andinconsistent with that taken in the present case,(1)  (1917) I.L.R. 41 Mad. 624.477It may be pointed out, however, that 1).  C. Dungore of	 theearlier	 case was not an employee within the meaning of	 therelevant  Act,	and  there could be no	Standing  Orders  inrespect	 of  his conditions of service.	  Moreover,  in	 thematter of construction of a statutory provision no  questionof  estoppel arises, and the learned Judges had pointed	 outthat the respondent himself thought that the Standing Ordersapplied to all employees.  We have rested our decision as tothe  applicability  of the Standing Orders not on  what	 theappellants or the respondent thought at one time or another,but   on  a  true  construction	 of  the   Standing   Ordersthemselves,  including	the definition	clause	in  StandingOrder no. 2(a).We  take  the  view that the Standing Orders  apply  to	 therespondent.  This is really decisive of the appeal,  becauseif  the	 Standing  Orders apply to the	respondent  and	 hisservice	 has  been terminated in  accordance  with  StandingOrder  no. 16(1), the writ application which the  respondentmade to the High Court must fail.The  learned Attorney-General appearing for  the  appellantsaddressed  us  on  the scope and ambit of Art.	226  of	 theConstitution,  and he contended that even if the  respondenthad  been wrongfully dismissed by his private employer,	 theproper	remedy was by mean,,; of a suit and not by  invokingthe  special  writ jurisdiction of the	High  Court.   Thesecontentions  raise important questions, but we do not  thinkthat we are called upon to decide them in this case.Lastly, it has been urged oil behalf of the respondent	thateven  if  we  hold that the Standing  Orders  apply  to	 therespondent, we should remand the case to the High Court	 fora  decision  on	 merits	 of  other  points  raised  by	 therespondent, because the question whether the Standing Ordersapply or not was treated as a preliminary issue by the	HighCourt  and no decision was given on other points.  We  askedlearned Advocate for the respondent what other points remainfor decision oil his writ application, once it is held	thatthe Standing Orders apply to the respondent and6478his service has been terminated in accordance with  StandingOrder  no.  16(1).   Learned Advocate then  referred  us  toStanding  Order	 no. 18, which provides	 for  penalties	 formisconduct,  and submitted that the provisions thereof	havenot  been complied with by the appellants.  He	particularlyreferred  to cl. (e) of Standing Order no. 18 and  submittedthat  the order of suspension passed against the  respondentwas  in violation of the safeguards mentioned therein.	 Theshort  answer to this argument is that no penalty  for	mis-conduct	 has been imposed on the respondent  under  StandingOrder no. 18.  The Company paid his salary to the respondentfrom the date of suspension to January 31, 1956, which	alsoshowed	that  no order was passed by way of  punishment	 formisconduct.   The Company chose to terminate the service  ofthe respondent in accordance with Standing Order no. 16, anddid not think fit to proceed against the respondent for	 anyalleged misconduct, and it was open to the Company to do so.So  far	 as  Standing Order no 16.  is	concerned,  all	 therequirements  thereof have been complied with.	 That  beingthe  position,	no other point remains for decision  in	 thepresent case.The  result, therefore, is that the appeal succeeds  and  isallowed.   The	judgment and order of the High	Court  datedSeptember  26, 1956, are set aside and the writ petition  ofthe respondent is dismissed.  In view of the stand which theappellants had taken in the earlier case with regard to	 theStanding Orders, we think it proper to say in this case thatthe parties must bear their own costs throughout.	       Appeal allowed.		     479