PETITIONER:M.P. V. SUNDARARAMIER & CO.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH& ANOTHER(with connected petitionDATE OF JUDGMENT:11/03/1958BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABOSE, VIVIANDAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)DAS, S.K.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1958 AIR  468		  1958 SCR 1422ACT:Sales  Tax-Inter-State sales--Sale outside State  but  goodsdelivered for consumption within State- Competence of Statesto levy tax-Conditional legislation--Power of Parliament  toauthorise  such taxation-President's Adaptation	 Order-Scopeof--Nature     of     Retrospective	 operation-Enactmentunconstitutional  in Part-Effect -Madras General  Sales	 TaxAct, 1939 (Mad. 9 of 1939), as adapted to Andhra, SS.  2(h),22-Sales  Tax Laws Validation Act, 1956 (7 of 1956),  S.  2-Constitution  of India, Arts. 246, 286, 301, 372, Sch.	VIl,List 1, Entry 42, List 11, Entry 54.HEADNOTE:The  petitioners  were dealers carrying on business  in	 theCity  of  Madras  in the sale and  purchase  of	 yarn.	 Thedealers in the State of Andhra used to place orders for	 thepurchase  of yarn with the petitioners in Madras, where	 thecontracts  were concluded and the goods were  delivered	 ex-godown at Madras and thereafter despatched to the purchaserswho  would  take delivery of them within their	State.	 Thepresent	 dispute related to sales in which property  in	 thegoods sold passed outside the State of1423Andhra, but the goods themselves were actually delivered  asa  result  of the sale for consumption	within	that  State.After the coming into force of the Constitution of India thePresident  in the exercise of the powers conferred  by	Art.372(2)	made Adaptation Orders with reference to  the  SalesTax  Laws  of  all the States, and  as	regards	 the  MadrasGeneral	 Sales	Tax  Act,  1939,  he  issued  an   Amendmentinserting  a  new section, S. 22 in that Act,  which  was  averbatim reproduction of the Explanation to Art. 286  (i)(a)of  the	 Constitution.	 Oil July 13,  1954,  the  Board  ofRevenue (Commercial Taxes) in the State of Andhra, acting onthe  decision  in  The State of Bombay and  another  v.	 TheUnited Motors (India) Ltd., and others, [1953] S.C.R.  1069,called upon dealers in the State of Madras to submit returnsof their turnover of sales in which goods were delivered  inthe  State of Andhra for consumption.  Thereupon they  filedthe  present  petitions under Art. 32  Of  the	Constitutionchallenging the demand on the grounds, inter alia, that	 thesales  proposed to be taxed were inter-State sales and	thatthey  were  immune from taxation under Art.  286(2)  Of	 theConstitution.  While the petitions were pending the  SupremeCourt  pronounced on September 6, 1955, its judgment in	 TheBe  gal Immunity Company Limited v. The State of  Bihar	 andothers,	 [1055]	 2  S.C.R.  603,  according  to	 which	 thepetitioners  were not liable to be taxed.  But before  finalorders were passed on the petitions Parliament passed  SalesTax Laws Validation Act, 1956, S. 2 whereof provided that nolaw of a State imposing or authorising the imposition of taxon  inter-State	 sales during the period  between  April  1,1951, and September 6, 1955, shall be deeme to be invalid orever to have been invalid merely by reason of the fact	thatthe sales took place in the course of the inter-State trade.That section further provided that taxes levied or collectedon such sales during the aforesaid period shall be deemed tohave  been  validly levied or collected.  It  was  the	con-tention	 of  the  State	 of Andhra that	 by  reason  of	 theaforesaid provision it had the right to impose tax on inter-State sales during the aforesaid period.  On the other	handthe petitioners contended, inter alia, that (I) S. 22 Of theMadras	General Sales Tax Laws Validation Act,	1956,  whichgave validity to laws which imposed a tax, did not authorisethe  imposition, (2) the Sales Tax Laws Validation  Act	 wasultra vires Art. 286(2), (3) S. 22 of the Madras Act was nota  "law	 of  a State" within Art. 286(2) and  S.  2  of	 theimpugned  Act,	(4) the impugned Act only  validated  leviesalready	 made and did not authorise the initiation of  freshproceedings  for  imposing  tax,  (5)  S.  22  having	beenunconstitutional when it was enacted and therefore void,  noproceedings  could be taken thereunder on the basis  of	 theValidation Act, as the effect of unconstitutionality of	 thelaw  was to efface it out of the statute book, and  (6)	 theproposed levy was bad as infringing the Rule which  providedthat the sale of yarn could be taxed only at one point.	  Itwas  also contended that under the Constitution it was	onlythe  Parliament	 that has the competence to  impose  tax  oninter-State sales and that the Sales Tax Laws Validation Act1424was  bad in that it gave validity, to the laws of the  Stateto impose the tax :Held  (Sarkar  J.  dissenting), that S.	 22  of	 the  MadrasGeneral Sales Tax Act, 1939, did in fact impose a tax on theclass of sales covered by the Explanation to Art.  286(1)(a)but  that  it  was conditional on the ban  enacted  on	Art.286(2)	being  lifted  by  law	of  Parliament	as  providedtherein, and that it was therefore validated by S. 2 of	 theSales Tax Laws Validation Act, 1956.The construction put upon the Explanation to Art.  286(1)(a)of the Constitution in The Bengal Immunity Company case thatit merely prohibited the outside States from imposing a	 taxon the class of sales falling within the Explanation and didnot  confer on the delivery State any power to impose a	 taxon  such sales has no application to a taxing statute  of  aState  the object of which was primarily to confer power  onthe State to levy and collect tax.Section	 22 and S. 2(h) of the Madras General Sales Tax	 Actmust  be  read	together as' defining the  sales  which	 aretaxable under the Act.Mettur Industries Ltd. v. State of Madras, A.I.R. 1957	Mad.362,  The  Mysore  Spinning and Manufacturing  Co.  Ltd.  v.Deputy Commercial Tax Officer, Madras, A.I.R. 1957 Mad.	 368and  Dial  Das	v. P. S. Talwalkay,  A.I.R.  1957  Bom.	 71,approved.Mathew v. Travancore-Cochin Board of Revenue, A.I.R. 1957 T.C.  300,  Cochin Coal Co. Ltd. v. The State  of	 Travancore-Cochin,	 (1956) 7 Sales Tax Cases 731 and The Government  ofAndhra	v.  Nooney Govin arajulu, (1957) 8 Sales  Tax  Cases297, disapproved.Queen  v. Burah, (1878) 5 I.A. 178 and In Ye The Delhi	LawsAct, 1912, etc. [1951] S.C.R. 747, relied on :Held (Per S. R. Das, C. J., Venkatarama Aiyar, S. K. Das andVivian	Bose,  JJ.) that (i) the Sales Tax  Laws  ValidationAct,  1956, is in substance one lifting the ban on  taxationof interState sales and is within the authority conferred onParliament  tinder Art. 2 6(2) and further that	 under	thatprovision it was competent to Parliament to enact a law withretrospective operation.Punjab	Province  v. Daulat Singh, (1946) L.R. 73  I.A.	 59,distinguished.The United Province v. Atiqa Bcgum, [1940] F.C.R. 110,(2)  the  Adaptation Order made by the President under	Art.372(2) is valid and is not open to attack on the ground thatit goes beyond the limits contemplated by that Article.(3)the expression " law of a State " in Art. 286(2) and S. 2of the Sales Tax Laws Validation Act means whatever operatesas  law in the State, and that S. 22 of the  Madras  GeneralSales Tax Act is a law within those enactments.1425(4)  s. 2 of the Sales Tax Laws Validation Act validates notonly  the levies already collected but also  authorises	 theimposition  of tax on sales falling within  the	 Explanationwhich  had taken place during the period specified in S.  2.The  Act  is  not a temporary Act though  its  operation  islimited to sales taking place within a specified period.Dial Das v. P. S. Talwalkay, A.I.R. 1937 Bom. 71, in so	 faras  it held that it was not competent to the State to  startfresh proceedings for assessment, disapproved.(5)  though  S. 22 of the Madras General Sales Tax  Act	 wasunconstitutional when enacted the effect of the	 unconstitu-tionality  was	not to efface it out of	 the  statute  book.Unconstitutionality might arise either because the law is inrespect	 of  a	matter	not within  the	 competence  of	 thelegislature  or because the matter itself being	 within	 thecompetence,   its  provisions  offend  some   constitutionalrestrictions.	 Which	a  law	which  is  not	within	 thecompetence of the legislature is a nullity a law on a  topicwithin	its competence but repugnant to	 any  constitutionalprohibition  is only unenforceable.  In the latter class  oflegislation  when  once the  constitutional  prohibition  isremoved	 the law becomes enforceable  without  re-enactment.Where an enactment is unconstitutional in part but valid  asto  the rest, assuming that the two portions are  severable,it  cannot  be held to have been wiped out  of	the  statutebook, as admittedly it must remain there for the purpose  ofenforcement of the valid portion.  Moreover in the view thatthe  impugned  law is conditional legislation it  cannot  beheld to have become non est.Behram	Khurshed Pesikaka v. The State of Bombay,  [1955]  IS.C.R.	6I3 and A. V. Fernandez v. State of  Kerala,  [1957]S.C.R. 837, distinguished.Bhikaji	 Narayan Dhakras and others v. The State  of  MadhyaPradesh and a other, [1955] 2 S.C.R. 589, relied on.(6)  under   Entry   42	 in  List  1,  Sch.   VII   of	 theConstitution, legislation with respect to inter-State  tradeand  commerce  is  exclusively	within	the  competence	  ofParliament.  Under Entry 54, List 11, taxes on sale of goodsis within the exclusive competence of the State Legislature,and  reading  the  two Entries together	 Entry	42  must  beconstrued as excluding the power to tax sale of goods.	 Thescheme	of  the	 Entries in the Lists is  that	taxation  isregarded  as  a distinct matter and is separately  set	out.Entry  42,  List  1,  must therefore  be  construed  as	 notincluding the power to impose tax on inter-State sales.(7)  the proposed imposition does not infringe the rule thatthe sales of yarns should be subject to taxation at a singlepoint  because the proposed levy is by the State  of  Andhraand the rule in question prohibits only multiple taxation inthe same State.Per  Sarkar  J.-The  Sales Tax Act does	 not  authorise	 thetaxation  of a sale under which goods are delivered  in	 theState of1426Andhra	but the property in them passes outside that  State.The  Explanation  in S. 22 of the Act  only  contemplates  aState  other  than Andhra as the State inside which  a	saleshall  be deemed to have taken place.  The words "  for	 thepurposes  of  clause (a)(i) " have the same meaning  in	 theExplanation in Art. 286(1) as in the Explanation in S. 22 ofthe  Act, and the present case is not  distinguishable	fromthe  decision in The Bengal Immunity Company Limited v.	 TheState of Bihar and others, [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petitions Nos. 220, 222, 240 and	 380to 395 of 1955.Petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution of India	 forthe enforcement of Fundamental Rights.1957.  Dec. 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, 18, 19. 1958.  Jan. 7, 8, 9.D.  Narsa  Raju, Advocate-General for the  State  of  AndhraPradesh	 and T. M. Sen, for the respondent.   The  petitionsare   premature	 and  incompetent  as  the  facts  of	eachtransaction of sale are yet to be investigated and it is notpossible  to know the character of each sale, nor can it  bedetermined  which sales can be and which cannot be taxed  byAndhra Pradesh.[CHIEF JUSTICE.	 You should be reasonably satisfied that thesales  are  of such a nature that you can levy tax  on	thembefore you issue a notice.BOSE J. You must state the facts on which you think you	 cantax the sales.]S.   K. DAS J. Your stand is that all transactions could  betaxed by the delivery State.]D.   Narsa  Raju.  My State is taxing under the decision  ofthis Court in the United Motors case ( [1953]S.	  C.	  R.1069).[ Upon the counsel for the petitioners stating that he wouldconfine	  his  arguments  to  the  imposition  of   tax	  onExplanation  sales  only,  which some  of  the	transactionsindisputably  were, the Court indicated that it	 would	hearthe petitions.	]K.   S. Krishnaswami Iyengar, N. Srinivasan and R.     GanapathyIyer, for the petitioners.  The Andhra (Madras) Act does notseek to tax Explanation sales1427at  all.  It talks of " property passing " only and as	suchAndhra	can  tax only such sales where	property  passes  inAndhra. See Poppatlal Shah v. State of' Madras, ( [1953]  S.C.  R. 677).  Section 22 does not enlarge the definition  ofsales; it only restricts the power of the State to tax.	 Theexplanation  to s. 22, like the explanation to Art.  236(1),is  merely  for the purpose of defining what is	 an  outsidesale  and not for determining what is an inside	 sale.	 SeeBengal	Immunity  Company case ( [1955] 2 S. C.	 R.  603  at640).	The power of the President under Art.  372(2)  beingmerely	to  bring the State laws into conformity  with	Art.286,  s. 22, which was introduced by the Presidential  Adap-tation	Order  under  Art. 372(2), cannot  be  construed  aspermitting the imposition of tax on Explanation sales  whichwas  prohibited	 by  Art. 286.	If s. 22  was  construed  topermit such imposition it was unconstitutional, illegal	 andvoid and must be deemed to be non est.	See Bengal  ImmunityCompany case ( [1955] 2 S. C. R. 603 at 667).  What did	 notexist could not be validated.The  Sales  Tax Laws (Validation) Act, 1956, was  not  validlegislation under Art. 286(2).	Article 286(2) only empowersParliament  to	lift  the ban on the imposition	 of  tax  oninter-State -ales and after it has lifted the ban the  Statelegislature may impose the tax.	 Parliament is not competentto impose sales tax; such power is vested only in the  Statelegislatures.  Article 286(2) does not give Parliament powerto  validate or ratify laws of the State legislatures.	 Thepower  under  Art.  286(2) can be exercised  only  once	 andfinally and fully, not partially.  Parliament can only	liftthe  ban  as from the day the power is	exercised  and	riotretrospectively.  Punjab Province v. Daulat Singh, (73 I. A.59);  Behram  Khurshed Pesikaka v. The State of Bombay	(  [1955 ] I S. C. R. 613, 654 and 655).  The case of Dialdas v.Talwalkar (A. 1. R. 1957 Bom. 71) has been wrongly  decided.But even this decision helps the petitioners in so far as itlays  down  that where tax had neither	been  collected	 norlevied the Validation Act did not confer power to assess  orlevy.  The whole1811428policy	of  the Validation Act was to save  the	 State	fromdisgorging  the,  tax illegally collected.   Both  levy	 andcollection  must be within the period specified in s.  2  ofthe, Act.  Mettur Industries Ltd. v. The State of Madras (A.1.  R. 1957 Mad. 362) and Mysore Spinning and  ManufacturingCo.  Ltd.  v. Deputy Commercial Tax Officer (A. 1.  R.	1957Mad. 368) are against the petitioners.R.   Ganapathy	Iyer  followed.	 Section 22  of	 the  Andhra(Madras) Act did riot enlarge the powers of taxation. Mathewv. Travancore-Cochin Board of Reventue (A. 1. R. 1957 T.  C.300).	The  validation being for a temporary  period  whichexpired on September 6, 1.955, no action can be taken  afterthat date under the validated laws. Kesavan Madhava Menon v.The  State of Bombay, ( [1951] S. C. R. 228, 234,  235),  S.Krishnan v. The State of Madras, ( [1951]S. C. R. 62  1,and State of Punjab v. Mohar Singh,[1955 ] I S.	 C.  R.893). The tax being a sinole pointtax  under the  Act,	andthe  petitioners having already paid the tax at the time  ofthe  purchase of the yarn from the Mills, no second tax	 waspayable.  The Andhra (Madras) Act being a new Act the tax onyarn  is hit by the Essential Commodities Act (52  of  1952)read with Art. 286(3) of the Constitution.  Petitioners	 arenot dealers in Andhra Pradesh and cannot be assessed.  Thereare no sales in Andhra; all sales being in Madras.V.L.  Narasimhamoorthy, J. B. Dadachanji  and  RameshtvarNath, for the Mysore Spinning & Mfg.  Co., Ltd., and MinervaMills	Ltd.,  (Interveners),  supported  the	petitioners.Section	 22  does  not authorise the imposition	 of  tax  onExplanation sales.  It could not have been the intention  ofthe  President to allow the State to add a new	category  ofsales - the Explanation Sales -to be taxed.  The language ofArt.  286(2)  indicates	 that the lifting of the  ban  is  acondition  precedent to legislation by the  States  imposingtax  on inter-State sales.  Alternatively, the power to	 taxinter-State sales is with Parliament under Entry 97 of	ListI of Schedule VII of the Constitution.	Section 22 was wipedout and obliterated by the judgment in the1429Bengal Immunity Company case.  See Behram Khurshed  Pesikakav. The State of Bombay, ([1955] 1 S. C. R. 613); Newberry v.United	States,	 (65 L. Ed. 913).  The	same  interpretationmust be given to the explanation to s. 22 as has been  givento the explanation to Art. 286(1)(a). The     non-obstanteclause in s. 22 has only the effectof	    subtractingsomething from the power to tax andriot	 of  adding  toit.   Ram Narain Sons Ltd. v. Asst.  Commissioner  of  SalesTax  ([1955] 2 S.C..R. 483); Aswini Kumar Ghosh	 v.  ArbindaBose ([1953] S.C.R. 1, 22, 24); A. V. Fernandez v. The Stateof Kerala, ([1957] S. C. R. 837).N.   A. Palkhiwala, J. B. Dadachanji and Rameshwar Nath, forTata Iron & Steel Co., Ltd., (Intervener).  There must be  afactual	 levy  before Parliament can validate  it.   Section22(ii)	removes	 inter-State sales from the purview  of	 theAct. Fernandez's case supports this contention.	 On a properconstruction  of Art. 286(2), according to the	decision  inthe  Bengal  Immunity  Company case, there was	no  levy  oninterState  sales  and there was nothing for  Parliament  tolift the ban for. ( [ 1955 ] 2 S. C. R. 603, 621, 662, 667).There  is  a  vital  difference	 between  retrospective	 andretroactive  operation.	 There is no power in Parliament  tovalidate   ex  post  facto  a  violation  of  Art.   286(2).Parliament  must  first	 lift the ban  and  then  the  Statelegislation  may  come imposing tax  on	 inter-State  sales.Parliament is competent to prevent what otherwise would havebeen  a	 violation  of	the  Constitution,  but	 it  is	 notcompetent to condone an accomplished violation. Section	 2of the Validating Act will operate only where	taxes	havealready been collected or have been	finally assessed.P.   N. Bhagwati and .1. N. Shroff, for PashebbhaiPatel & Co., Ltd., (Intervener) supported the petitioners.D.   Narsa  Raju, Advocate-General of Andhra Pradesh and  T.M.  Sen,  for  the respondents.	 Article  372(2)  must	takeregard	of  the provision of the Constitution to  bring	 theState	laws  into  conformity	with  which  the  power	  ofadaptation is to be exercised.	That provision1430is  Art.  286.	Implicit in Art. 286(1) is  the	 recognitionthat the delivery State alone may tax.	The -President wouldbe  acting within his power to enable the delivery State  totax -Such power is in accordance with the provisions of	 theConstitution.	The  power of the legislature to  bring	 thelaws  in accordance with the Constitution is conferred	uponthe  President.	 Consequently, the explanation to s. 22	 canbe read along with the definition of sale and it does add tothat definition by bringing Explanation sales within it.K.   V. Subramania Iyer, D. N. Mukherjee and B.	  N.  Ghosh,for  Madura Mills Co., Ltd., (Intervener).   The  AdaptationOrder made by tile President is not 'law of a State'  withinthe meaning of the Validating Act.  'Law of a State' in	 theValidating  Act must mean the same thing as in Art.  286(2).The  President	exercising power under Art.  372(2)  is	 notcontrolled  by Art. 286; he exercises a power which  belongsto  the	 President and not a power on behalf of	 the  State.Section 22 of the Andhra (Madras) Act is not law made by theState  Legislature  and is not validated by  the  ValidatingAct.   The power of imposition of sales tax  on	 inter-Statesales  was taken away from the States.	The bail under	Art.286(2)	is  only in respect of existing laws;  there  is  nopower in the States to enact laws imposing tax on interstatesales.	 The  power to impose tax on  inter-State  sales  iswithin the exclusive domain of Parliament under Entry 42  ofList I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution and Entry54 of List 11 must be construed as not including such power.A reference to Art. 301 reinforces this interpretation.	 Thefreedom under Art. 301 includes freedom from sales tax.	 SeeThe Commonwealth v. The State of South Australia, (38 C.  L.R. 408).  The Validation Act is not legislation within Entry42.  See Bank of N. S. W. v. The Commonwealth, (76 C. L.  R.1, 381); Robbins v. Taxing District of Shelby County ((1877)30  L.	Ed. 694); McLeod v. Dilworth Co. ((1944) 88  L.	 Ed.1304).C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, G. N.1431Joshi  and T. M. Sen, for the Union of	India  (Intervener).The   Sales  Tax  Laws	Validation  Act,  1956,	  is   validlegislation tinder Art. 286(2).	 In effect and in  substancethe Validation Act is a law which removes the ban imposed byArt.  286(2), and is not really a Validating  Act.   Article286(2),	 in respect of existing laws, merely said that	theyshould not be effective or operative.  It did not take	awaythe  competency of the legislatures to make  laws  providingfor taxes oil inter-State sales.  Such a law may be  againstthe provision of the Constitution, but that does not  repealor  obliterate	it.  It is only in  abeyance.	See  BhikajiNarain	Dhakra,s and others v. The State Of  Madhya  Pradeshand another, ([ 1955] 2 S.C.R. 589, 600).  Legislative powergenerally  includes the power to legislate  retrospectively.There	is  no	limitation  in	Art.  286(2)   as   respectsretrospective  legislation.   Parliament  could,  therefore,lift  the  ban retrospectively.	 Section 22 is	a  piece  ofconditional  legislation.   As soon as the  ban	 under	Art.286(2) was lifted by Parliament it came into operation.	 TheValidation  Act	 is not a temporary  statute.	A  temporarystatute	 is one which says that it is to be effective for  aparticular period.  The Validating Act operates even now andis  effective,	though	it  is in  respect  of	sales  of  aparticular  period.   It is open to the States	to  initiateproceedings now for taxing the Explanation sales made duringthe period mentioned in s. 2 even though no such proceedingshad been taken during that period.  Entry 42 of List I whichreads:	" Inter-State trade and commerce " does	 not  conferany  power of taxation on Parliament.  In the scheme of	 ourConstitution  a general Entry does not include the power  oftaxation.  Taxes, duties, etc., are enumerated in a separategroup in Entries 82-92 in List I.V.   K. T. Chari, Advocate-General for the State of  Madras,B.  R. Gopalakrishnan and T. M. Sen for the State of  Madras(Intervener).	In construing s. 22 of the  Andhra  (Madras)Act regard must be had to the law as it stood till September6, 1955, when judgment was delivered in the Bengal  ImmunityCompany case.  In view of the decision in the United Motors1432case  ([1953]  S.  C.  R. 1069,	 1085,	1086,  1093,  1094),Explanation  sales  were regarded as 'inside sales'  in	 thedelivery  State, and the delivery State was entitled to	 taxsales.	The law of a State which imposed tax on	 Explanationsales  would  remain on the statute book, in  spite  of	 thedecision in The Bengal Immunity Company case, but could	 notbe  enforced.  See Bhikaji Narain Dhakras and others v.	 TheState  of Madhya Pradesh and another ([1955] 2 S.C.R.  589);Ulster	Transport  Authority  v. James	Brown  &  Sons	Ltd.((1953)	 Northern  Ireland Reports 79).	 Section  2  of	 theValidating Act refers to such a law.Mahabir	 Prasad,  Advocate-General for the State  of  Bihar,Rajeshwar  Prasad and S.  P. Varma, for the State  of  Bihar(Intervener);  G. C. Mathur and C. P. Lal, for the State  ofUttar Pradesh (Intervener) supported the respondents and theUnion of India.R.   Ganapathy Iyer, for the petitioners, replied.K.   V.	 Subramania  Iyer,  for	 Madura	 Mills	Co.,   Ltd.,(Intervener), also replied with the permission of the Court.1958.	March  II.  The judgment of Das C.  J.,	 VenkataramaAiyar,	S.  K.	Das and Vivian Bose, JJ.  was  delivered  byVenkatarama   Aiyar  J.	 Sarkar	 J.  delivered	a   separatejudgment.VENKATARAMA AIYAR J.-The petitioners are dealers carrying onbusiness  in the City of Madras in the sale and purchase  ofyarn,  and  they have filed the present	 applications  underArt.  32  of  the Constitution for the issue of	 a  writ  ofprohibition or other appropriate writ restraining the  Stateof  Andhra  from  taking proceedings  for  imposing  tax  oncertain	 sales effected by them in favour of  merchants	 whoare  residing  or carrying on business in what	is  now	 theState of Andhra Pradesh, on the ground, inter alia, that thesaid sales were made in the course of inter-State trade, andthat  no  tax  could  be levied on them	 by  reason  of	 theprohibition contained in Art. 286(2) of the Constitution.The course of dealings between the parties resulting       1433in  the above sales has been set out in para. 5 in  PetitionNo.  220 of 1955.  It is therein stated that the dealers  inAndhra would place orders for the purchase of yarn with	 thepetitioners in Madras, that the contracts would be concludedat  Madras, that the goods would be delivered  ex-godown  atMadras and would thereafter be despatched to the  purchaserseither	by lorries or by rail as might be directed by  them,that when the goods were sent by rail, the railway  receiptswould  be  taken either in the name of the  consignees,	 andsent  to  them by post or in the name of the  consignor	 andendorsed  to the purchasers and delivered to them in  Madrasor sent to them by post endorsed in favour of a bank and thepurchasers  would  take	 delivery of  those  receipts  afterpayment to the bank.  It is said that in all cases price  ofthe goods was paid in Madras.On  the	 above allegations, it is manifest  that  the  salesmentioned therein are not all of the same kind, and in pointof law, the incidents attaching to them might be  different.A  consideration  of  the validity of  the  imposition	withreference  to the several classes of sales  mentioned  abovewould  he wholly airy and pointless without a  determinationof the facts relating to them, which, however, have not beeninvestigated.	 Counsel  for  the   petitioners,   however,concedes that the, dispute in these proceedings is  confinedto  the proposed imposition of tax, in so far as it  relatesto  sales of the character mentioned in the  Explanation  toArt. 286(1)(a), that is to say, sales in which the  propertyin the goods sold passed outside the State of Andhra but thegoods themselves were actually delivered as a result of	 thesale  for consumption within that State.  These	 sales	havebeen referred to in the arguments before us as	"Explanationsales ", and it will be convenient to adopt that  expressionin referring to them in this judgment.It will be seen that the above sales would all of them	havebeen intrastate, so long as the Andhra State formed part  ofthe  composite	State  of  Madras,  and	 questions  of	 thecharacter now agitated before us could not then have arisen.On September 14, 1953,1434Parliament  enacted  the  Andhra State	Act  (30  of  1953),whereby	 a  separate State called the State  of	 Andhra	 wasconstituted  incorporating  therein  territories  which	 hadpreviously  thereto formed part of the State of Madras,	 andthis Act came into force on October 1, 1953.  Under s. 53 ofthe  Andhra State Act, the laws in force in the	 territoriesin  the	 Andhra	 State	prior to  its  constitution  are  tocontinue  to be in force even thereafter, and one  of  thoselaws is the Madras General Sales Tax Act (Madras 9 of 1939),hereinafter  referred to as the Madras Act.  Section  54  ofthe Andhra State Act conferred on the Government a power  toadapt  laws for the purpose of facilitating the	 applicationof  any	 law previously made, and in exercise of  the  powerconferred by this section, an Adaptation Order was passed onNovember  12,  1953,  whereby  the  word  "  Andhra  "	 wassubstituted  for  the word "Madras" in the Madras  Act.	  Weshall  hereafter  refer to the Madras Act as  continued	 andapplied in the State of Andhra as the Andhra (Madras)Act.It will be convenient at this stage to refer to the relevantprovisions of this Act.	 The preamble to the Act states that"  it is expedient to provide for the levy of a general	 taxon  the	 sale of goods in the State of Madras".	  "Sale"  isdefined	 in  s.	 2(h), omitting what  is  not  material,  asmeaning	 "  every transfer of the property in goods  by	 oneperson	to  another in the course of trade or  business	 forcash   or   for	  deferred   payment   or   other   valuableconsideration."	 Section 2(i) defines " turnover " as "	 theaggregate  amount  for which goods are either bought  by  orsold  by a dealer, whether for cash or for deferred  paymentor other valuable consideration ". Section 3 is the chargingsection	 and provides that every dealer shall pay  for	eachyear tax on his total turnover for such year.  By the MadrasGeneral	 Sales	Tax (Amendment) Act No. 25 of  1947,  a	 newExplanation was added to the definition of " sale ", and  itis as follows:Explanation 2: " Notwithstanding anything to the contrary inthe Indian Sale of (Goods Act, 1930, the sale or purchase ofany goods shall be deemed, for1435the  purposes  of  this Act, to have  taken  place  in	thisProvince,  wherever the contract of sale or  purchase  mighthave been made-(a)  if the goods were actually in this Province at the timewhen the contract of sale or purchase in respect thereof wasmade, or(b)  in	 case the contract was for the sale or	purchase  offuture goods by description, then, if the goods are actuallyproduced in this Province at any time after the contract  ofsale or purchase in respect thereof was made."This  amendment	 came  into force on  January  1,  1948.In   Poppatlal Shah v. The State of Madras (1),	 this  Courthad  to consider the scope of the definition of " sale "  ins.  2(h) and of Explanation 2, and it was therein held	thatthough	the power to tax a sale was really a power to tax  atransaction  of	 sale and a law imposing such tax  would  becompetent if any of the ingredients of sale had taken  placewithin the State, the Madras Act had, by its definition of "sale  " in s. 2(h) prior to the enactment of Explanation  2,imposed	 a  tax only when the property in the  goods  passedwithin	the  State, and that in respect of sales  which	 hadtaken  place  prior  to	 the amendment,	 the  tax  would  beunauthorised if the property in the goods passed outside theState  of  Madras.   It was also  observed  that  after	 theamendment came into force, a tax on a sale which came withinExplanation 2 would be valid.  That was the position in	 lawunder  the  Madras  Act	 prior	to  the	 enactment  of	 theConstitution.It is now necessary to refer to the changes effected in	 thelaw by the Constitution.  Article 286, which is relevant forthe present purpose, is as follows:286(1).	 " No law of a State shall impose, or authorise	 theimposition of, a tax on the sale or purchase of goods  wheresuch sale or purchase takes place-(a)  outside the State; or(b)  in	 the  course of the import, of the  goods  into,  orexport of the goods out of, the territory of India.(1) [1953] S.C.R. 677.1821436Explanation.-For the purposes of Sub-clause (a), -a sale  orpurchase shall be deemed to have taken place in the State inwhich  the  goods have actually been delivered as  a  directresult	of  such  sale	or  purchase  for  the	purpose	  ofconsumption  in	 that State, notwithstanding the  fact	thatunder the general law relating to sale of goods the propertyin  the goods has by reason of such sale or purchase  passedin another State.(2)  Except  in	 so far as Parliament may by  law  otherwiseprovide,  no law of a State shall impose, or  authorise	 theimposition  of, a tax on the sale or purchase of  any  goodswhere  such sale or purchase take,,; place in the course  ofinterstate trade or commerce:Provided that the President may by order direct that any taxon  the sale or purchase of goods which was  being  lawfullylevied by the Government of any State immediately before thecommencement  of  this Constitution  shall,  notwithstandingthat  the  imposition  of  sucli  tax  is  contrary  to	 theprovisions of this clause, continue to be levied until	the,thirty-first day of March, 1951.(3)  No law made by the Legislature of a State imposing,  orauthorising the imposition of, a tax on the sale or purchaseof any such goods as have been declared by Parliament by lawto  be	essential for the life of the community	 shall	haveeffect unless it has been reserved for the consideration  ofthe  President and has received his assent." Article  372(2)enacts that,"  For the purpose of bringing the provisions of any law  inforce  in  the	territory  of India  into  accord  with	 theprovisions of this Constitution, the President may by  ordermake such adaptations and modifications of such law, whetherby  way	 of  repeal or amendment, as  may  be  necessary  orexpedient, and provide that the law shall, as from such dateas may be specified in the order, have effect subject to theadaptations   and  modifications  so  made,  and  any	suchadaptation  or modification shall not be questioned  in	 anycourt of law."In exercise of the power conferred by this provision,1437the  President made Adaptation Orders with reference to	 theSales Tax Laws of all the States, and as regards the  MadrasAct,  he  issued  on July 2,  1952,  the  Fourth,  Amendmentinserting  a  new section, s. 22 in that Act.	It  runs  asfollows:" Nothing contained in this Act shall be deemed to impose orauthorise the imposition of a tax on the sale or purchase ofany goods where such sale or purchase takes place-(a)  (i) outside the State of Madras, or(ii)in the course of import of the goods into the  territoryof  India  or  of  the	export of  the	goods  out  of	suchterritory, or(b)  except  in	 so far as Parliament may by  law  otherwiseprovide, after the 31st March, 1951, in the course of inter-State  trade  or commerce, and the provisions  of  this	 Actshall be read and construed accordingly.Explanation:-For  the  purposes	 of cl. (a) (i)	 a  sale  orpurchase shall be deemed to have taken place in the State inwhich  the  goods have actually been delivered as  a  directresult	of  such  sale	or  purchase  for  the	purpose	  ofconsumption  in	 that State, notwithstanding the  fact	thatunder the general law relating to sale of goods the propertyin  the goods has by reason of such sale or purchase  passedin another State."It will be noticed that the Explanation to Art. 286 (1)	 (a)is reproduced verbatim in s. 22 of the Madras Act.  The truemeaning	  and  scope  of  this	Explanation  came   up	 forconsideration  before this Court in The State of Bombay	 andanother	 v.  The United Motors India Ltd., and	others	(1).Therein,  it  was held by a majority that though  the  salesfalling	 within	 the Explanation would, in fact, be  in	 thecourse	of interState trade, they became, by reason  of	 thefiction	 introduced therein, invested with the character  ofintra-State  sales, and would be liable to be taxed  by	 theState within which the goods were delivered for consumption.Acting	on this judgment, the Board of	Revenue	 (CommercialTaxes) Andhra State, issued a(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 1069.1438notification  on  July	13, 1954, calling  upon	 dealers  tosubmit	returns	 of their turnover of sales in	which  goodswere  delivered in the Andhra State for consumption,  and  acopy  thereof  was  sent  to  the  Madras  Yarn	  Merchants'Association,  of  which the petitioners	 are  members.	 TheAssociation disputed the liability of the Madras dealers  topay  any tax in respect of the sales to the Andhra  dealers,and  after  some correspondence, the  Andhra  State  finallyissued on June 30, 1955, notices to the petitioners to	sendtheir returns of turnover by July 15, 1955, failing which itwas  stated  that  assessments would be	 made  on  the	bestjudgment  basis,  and that, further, the  dealers  would  beliable to the penalties prescribed by the law (Vide AnnexureH  to the petition).  Thereupon, the petitionera have  filedthe present petitions challenging the validity of the demandmade by the Andhra State on the ground, inter alia, that thesales proposed to be taxed were inter-State sales, and	thatthey  were  immune from taxation under Art.  286(2).   Thesepetitions  were filed on various dates in July	and  August,1955.While  they were pending, the question of the true scope  ofthe  Explanation  to  Art. 286 (1) (a)	came  up  again	 forconsideration  before  this  Court in  The  Bengal  ImmunityCompany	 Limited v. The State of Bihar and others  (1).	  Byits judgment dated September 6, 1955, this Court held, againby a majority, that the sales falling within the Explanationbeing inter-State in character, could not be taxed by reasonof  Art. 286(2), unless Parliament lifted the ban, that	 theExplanation to Art. 286 (1) (a) controlled only that  clauseand  did not limit the operation of Art. 286 (2),  and	thatthe  law  had  not been correctly laid down  in	 The  UnitedMotors	case  (2).  On the decision in The  Bengal  ImmunityCompany	 case(1) it cannot be doubted that the claim of	 theAndhra	 State	 to   tax   Explanation	  sales	  would	  beunconstitutional, and indeed, that was admitted by the Statein  a  statement filed on October 21, 1955, wherein  it	 wasstated that having regard(1) [1955]2 S.C.R. 603.(2) [1953] S.C.R. 1069.1439to  the decision aforesaid, the petitions might	 be  allowedbut  without costs.  Before final orders were passed on	 thepetitions,  however, the Sales Tax Validation Ordinance	 No.III  of 1956, was promulgated on January 30, 1956, and	thatwas  later replaced by the Sales Tax Laws Validation Act  (7of  1956)  and	that  came into force  on  March  21,  1956.Section 2 of this Act runs as follows:" Notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any courtno  law of a State imposing, or authorising  the  impositionof,  a tax on the sale or purchase of any goods	 where	suchsale  or  purchase took place in the course  of	 inter-Statetrade  or commerce during the period between the 1st day  ofApril,	1951, and the 6th day of September, 1955,  shall  bedeemed to be invalid or ever to have been invalid merely  byreason of the fact that such sale or purchase took place  inthe  course  of interstate trade or commerce; and  all	suchtaxes levied or collected or purporting to have been  leviedor  collected  during the aforesaid period shall  be  deemedalways	 to  have  been	 validly  levied  or  collected	  inaccordance with law."On February 19, 1957, the Andhra State which had become	 theState  of  Andhra  Pradesh  under s. 3	(1)  of	 the  StatesReorganisation Act (37 of 1956) filed a fresh statement thatby  reason of the Validation Act the State was	entitled  toimpose a tax on the Explanation sales, which had taken placeduring	the period between the 1st day of April,  1951,	 andthe  6th day of September, 1955 (which will  hereinafter  bereferred to as the specified period), and that the petitionsshould therefore be dismissed.The petitioners challenge the correctness of this  position.They contend that the Andhra (Madras) Act does not, in fact,impose	a  tax	oh  the	 Explanation  sales,  and  that,  inconsequence,  the Validation Act can have no effect  on	 it;that the Validation Act is itself unconstitutional and void;that  the Act even if valid, does not validate s. 22 of	 theAndhra	(Madras)  Act;	that it validates  only	 levies	 andcollections of tax already made, and does not authorise	 theinitiation1440of  fresh proceedings for assessment of tax or for  realisa-tion  of  the same; that even if the  Act  authorised  freshimposition of taxes, that could not be done without  furtherlegislation  pursuant  thereto	by the State,  and  that  noaction	could be taken on the basis of s. 22 of	 the  Andhra(Madras)  Act, as, being unconstitutional when	enacted,  itwas for all purposes non est ; that tax on the sale of	yarncould under the Act be levied only at a single point and theState  of Madras having imposed a tax on the sale  of  goodsnow proposed to be taxed, the Andhra State could not  imposea  tax	once again on the sale of the self-same	 goods,	 andthat,  further, the tax on yarn would, so far as the  AndhraState  is  concerned, be bad as being hit by  the  EssentialCommodities Act (52 of 1952), read with Art. 286 (3).It  must be mentioned that similar to the  Adaptation  Orderwhich enacted s. 22 in the Madras Act, there were AdaptationOrders by the President with reference to the Sales Tax Lawsin  all	 the States, and provisions similar to	s.  22	wereenacted	 therein.   As	any decision by this  Court  on	 thequestions  raised  in the petitions  must  conclude  similarquestions  under  the  laws of other  States,  those  Statesapplied	 for and obtained permission to intervene  in  theseproceedings,  and  we have heard  the  Advocates-General  ofMadras,	 Uttar Pradesh and Bihar on the questions.   As	 themain  point for determination is the vires of the Sales	 TaxLaws  Validation Act (which will hereinafter be referred  toas the impugned Act), the Union of India has intervened, andthe  learned  Solicitor-General	 has  addressed	 us  on	 thequestions  relating  to the validity of that  Act.   Certainassessees  who are interested in the decision of  the  abovequestions  also	 applied  for  and  obtained  permission  tointervene,   and   they	  are  the   Mysore   Spinning	 andManufacturing  Co., the Minerva Mills, Ltd., the  Tata	Ironand  Steel  Co.	 Ltd., and the Madura Mills  Co.  Ltd.,	 andcounsel	 appearing for them have, in general, supported	 thepetitioners.Counsel	 for  the Madura Mills Co. Ltd.,  raised  a  furthercontention different from and inconsistent with1441the  position  taken  by the petitioners  and  other  inter.veners,	 and  that is that under Entry 42 in List I  of	 theSeventh Schedule to the Constitution, inter-State trade	 andcommerce  is the exclusive domain of the Union	Legislature,that tax on inter-State sales is comprised therein, that theStates have accordingly no power to tax such sales, and thatParliament is not competent to authorise them to impose sucha  tax,	 and that, accordingly, the impugned Act  is  whollymisconceived and inoperative.On  these  contentions,	 the questions that  arise  for	 ourdetermination are:(I)  Whether the Andhra (Madras) Act, in fact, imposes a taxon the class of sales falling within the Explanation to Art.286 (1) (a);(II)Whether the impugned Act is ultra vires the ground	thatit is not authorised by the terms of Art. 286(2);(III) (a) Whether s. 22 of the Andhra (Madras) Act is withinthe protection of the impugned Act, and(III)(b) Whether the impugned Act validates only levies	 andcollections made during the specified period, or whether  itauthorises  the imposition and collection of taxes  on	suchsales in future;(IV)Whether s. 22 of the Madras Act was null and void on theground	that  it was in contravention of Art. 286  (2),	 andwhether the proceedings sought to be taken thereunder on thestrength of the impugned Act are incompetent;(V)  Whether   tax  on	inter-State  sales  is	within	 theexclusive competence of Parliament, and whether the impugnedAct  is,  in consequence, bad as authorising the  States  tolevy tax ;(VI)Whether the proposed imposition of tax is illegal on theground	that successive sales of yarn are subject under	 thelaw  to	 be  taxed at only one point, and as  the  State  ofMadras	has  already taxed the present sales, the  State  ofAndhra cannot again levy a tax on them ; and(VII)Whether  the proposed imposition of tax on yarn by	 theAndhra	State is hit by the Essential Commodities Act,	readwith Art. 286(3), and is illegal?1442(1):The	 first	question  that falls  to  be  determined  iswhether	 the Andhra (Madras) Act, in fact, imposes a tax  onthe  Explanation  sales.  Only if it does  that,  would	 thefurther	 questions as to the vires and the operation of	 theimpugned  Act  arise  for consideration.   We  have  alreadyreferred to the relevant provisions of the Madras Act and tothe decision of this Court in Poppatlal Shah v. The State ofMadras (1), wherein it was held that under the definition of"  sale	 "  in	s.  2(h) of that  Act  and  apart  from	 theExplanations  to it which are not material for	the  presentdiscussion,  power had been taken by the Province of  Madrasto  tax	 only sales in which property in  the  goods  passedinside	the State.  It must, therefore, be taken that  underthe Act, as it stood prior to the Constitution, the State ofMadras	had  no power to impose a tax on sales of  the	kindmentioned  in the Explanation to Art. 286 (1)(a).  Now,	 thequestion  is whether the Adaptation Order of  the  President(Fourth Amendment) dated July 2, 1952, has, by the insertionof  s.	22  in the Madras Act, altered	the  position.	 Thecontention of the respondent is that it has, because it	 hasbodily	incorporated the Explanation to Art. 286 (1) (a)  inthe section itself, and as under that Explanation, all salesfalling within its ambit would be sales inside the State  ofMadras,	 they became taxable as sales within the  definitionin s.	  2  (h)  of the Madras Act;  and  that	 accordinglyunder s.  22  of  the Andhra (Madras)  Act  the	 Explanationsales become taxable by the Andra State as sales within thatState.The petitioners dispute this position, and contend that thatis not the true effect of the Explanation, and that properlyconstrued, it does not authorise the  in position of any taxwhich  was  not leviable under the provisions  of  the	Act,prior  to  its enactment.  It is argued that the  object  ofArt.   286  of	the  Constitution  was	merely	 to   imposerestrictions  on the power which the States had under  Entry54 in List 11 to enact laws imposing tax on sales, and that,in  that context, the true scope of the Explanation to	Art.286 (1) (a) was that it merely took away from the State	 itspower to(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 677.1443tax  a	sale in which the property passed inside it  if	 thegoods were actually delivered under the sale for consumptionin  another State and not to confer on the delivery State  apower to tax such a sale, and that the Explanation in s.  22which  is, word for word, a reproduction of the	 Explanationto  Art.  286 (1) (a) must be construed as having  the	sameimport.	 Reliance is placed in support of this contention onthe  following	observations  of this Court  in	 The  BengalImmunity Company case(1) at p. 640:"  In clause (1) (a) the Constitution makers have  placed  aban on the taxing power of the States with respect to  salesor  purchases  which take place outside the State.   If	 thematter	had  been  left	 there	the  ban  would	 have	beenimperfect, for the argument would have still remained as  towhere  a  particular -,ale or purchase took place.   Does  asale or purchase take place at the place where the  contractof  sale is made, or where the property in the goods  passesor  where  the	goods are delivered ?  These  questions	 areanswered  by the Explanation.  That Explanation is 'for	 thepurposes  of  sub-clause  (a)', i.e.,  for  the	 purpose  ofexplaining  which  sale	 or purchase is to  be	regarded  ashaving taken place outside a State.  By saying that a Parti-cular  sale  or	 purchase  is to be  deemed  to	 take  in  aparticular  State the Explanation only indicates  that	suchsale  or purchase has taken place outside all other  States.The  Explanation is neither an Exception nor a	Proviso	 butonly  explains what is an outside sale referred to  in	sub-clause	(a).   This  it does by creating  a  fiction.	Thatfiction is only for the purposes of subclause (a) and cannotbe  extended to any other purpose.  It should be limited  toits  avowed purpose.  To say that this	Explanation  conferslegislative  power on what for the sake of brevity has	beencalled	the  delivery State is to use it  for  a  collateralpurpose	 which is not permissible. .Further, it	 is  utterlyillogical  and untenable to say that article 286  which	 wasintroduced in the Constitution to place restrictions on	 thelegislative  powers  of the States, by a side  wind,  as  itwere,(1) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.1831444gave enlarged legislative powers to the State of delivery byan  explanation sandwiched between two	restrictions.	Thisconstruction  runs  counter  to the  entire  scheme  of	 thearticle and the explanation and one may see no justificationfor  imputing  such  indirect and oblique  purpose  to	thisarticle."Now,  the  contention  of  the	petitioners  is	 that  theseobservations  are  decisive  of	 the  present	controversy,because	 the  same provision expressed	in  ipsissima  verbacannot	have  one  meaning in Art. 286(1) (a)  and  quite  adifferent  one	in  s.	22 of the Madras  Act;	and  on	 theconstruction  put by this Court on the Explanation  to	Art.286(1) (a), the Explanation to s. 22 of the, Andhra (Madras)Act  must  be interpreted as prohibiting States	 other	thanAndhra from taxing sales under which goods are delivered forconsumption  outside  those  States,  even  though  propertypassed	inside	them  and not as authorising  the  State  ofAndhra to tax sales in which goods are delivered therein forconsumption  ,	even  though property in  the  goods  passedoutside	 that State.  It is argued that this  conclusion  isreinforced  by	the opening words of s. 22,  viz.,  "Nothingcontained in this Act shall be deemed to impose or authorisethe  imposition	 of  a tax on the sale or  purchase  of	 anygoods".	  The  effect of this, it is said, is  to  impose  arestriction   on  the  power  which  the  State	  previouslypossessed,  of taxing sales coming within the definition  ins. 2 (h) and not to enlarge it.	 The decision in  Governmentof Andhra v. Nooney Govindarajulu (1) is cited in support ofthese contentions.The  error  in this argument lies in this that	it  focussesattention exclusively on the terms in which the Explanationsare  couched in Art. 286(1) (a) and in s. 22 and  completelyoverlooks  the	fundamental difference in  the	context	 andsetting	 of these two enactments.  The scope and purpose  ofArt. 286 have been considered at length in the decisions  ofthis  Court  in The United Motors case (2) as  also  in	 TheBengal	Immunity Company case (3), and it is  sufficient  tobriefly recapitulate them.  Under Entry 48 in List 11 of the(1) (1957) 8 Sales Tax Cases 297.  (2) [1953] S.C.R, 1069.(3) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.1445Seventh	 Schedule to the Government of India Act, 1935,	 theProvincial Legislature had the exclusive competence to enacta  law imposing a tax on the sale of goods, and under s.  99(1), such a law could be made " for the Province or for	 anypart thereof ". In Wallace Brothers & Co. Ltd. v. Income-taxCommissioner  (1), the question arose as to the validity  ofcertain	 provisions  of	 the Indian  Income-tax	 Act,  whichsought	to tax non-resident foreigners in respect  of  theirforeign	 income.  The Indian Legislature had under Entry  54in List I of the Government of India Act power to enact lawsimposing  tax on income other than agricultural income,	 andunder  s.  99(1) the law could be made " for  the  whole  of:British India or for any part thereof ". It was held by thePrivy Council that the requirements of s. 99 were  satisfiedif  there was sufficient territorial connection between	 theState  imposing the tax and the person who was sought to  betaxed, and the receipt of income by the assessees in BritishIndia  furnished  sufficient nexus to give validity  to	 thelegislation  imposing tax on their foreign income.  If	thisdoctrine  of  nexus is applicable to laws  imposing  tax  onsales-and it was applied by this Court to those laws in	 theUnited	Motors case (2) at p. 1079 and in  Poppatlal  Shah'scase  (3) at pp. 682-683-then it would be competent  to	 theState to enact a law imposing a tax on sales not merely whenthe  property in the goods passed within the State but	evenwhen it (lid not, if there was sufficient connection betweenthe State and the transaction of sale, such as the  presenceof  the goods in the State at the date of the agreement,  aswas  held  recently by this Court in Tata Iron &  Steel	 Co.Ltd.  v. State of Bihar (4).  In fact, acting on  the  nexustheory the Legislatures of the States enacted Sales Tax Lawsadopting  one or more of the nexi as the basis of  taxation.This  resulted	in multiple taxation, as  a  consequence  ofwhich  the free flow of commerce between the  States  becameobstructed and the larger economic interests of the  countrysuffered.    It	 was  to  repair  this	mischief  that	 theConstitution, while(1)  (1948) L.R. 75 I.A. 86.(2)  [1953] S.C.R. 1069.(3)  [1953] S.C.R. 677.(4)  [1958] S.C.R. 1355.1446retaining  the power in the States to tax sales under  Entry54 in List II sought to impose certain restrictions on	thatpower  in Art. 286.  One of those restrictions is  containedin  Art.  286(1)(a)  which prohibits  a	 State	from  taxingoutside	 sales.	 The Explanation now under consideration  isattached to this provision, and it is in this context, viz.,in  its	 setting in an Article, the object of which  was  toimpose fetters on the legislative powers of the States, thatthis Court observed that though positive in form, it was  insubstance  negative in character, and that its true  purposewas  not to confer any fresh power of taxation on the  Statebut  to	 restrict the power which it  previously  had  underEntry 54.These	considerations	will  clearly  be  in  apposite	  inconstruing a taxing statute like the Madras Act, the  objectof  which is primarily to confer power on the State to	levyand collect tax.  When we find in such a statute a provisioncontaining a prohibition followed by an Explanation which ispositive in its terms, the true interpretation to be put  onit  is	that while the prohibition is  intended	 to  preventtaxation  of  outside  sales  on  the  basis  of  the  nexusdoctrine, the Explanation is intended to authorise  taxationof  sales falling within its purview, subject of  course  tothe  other provisions of the Constitution, such as Art.	 286(2).  It should be remembered that unlike the  Constitution,the   law  of  a  State	 can  speak  only  within  its	 ownterritories.   It  cannot operate either to  invest  anotherState  with a power which it does not possess, or divest  itof  a  power which it does possess under  the  Constitution.Its  mandates  can run only within its	own  borders.	Thatbeing the position, what purpose would the Explanation servein  s.	22 of the Madras Act, if it merely meant  that	whengoods are delivered under a contract of sale for consumptionin the State of Madras, the outside State in which  propertyin  the goods passes has no power to tax the sale ? That  isnot  the  concern of the State of Madras,  and	indeed,	 theLegislature  of Madras would be incompetent to enact such  alaw.  In its context and setting, therefore, the Explanationto s. 22 must mean that it1447authorises  the	 State of Madras to impose a  tax  on  salesfalling	 within its purview.  Thus, while in the context  ofArt. 286 (1) (a) the Explanation thereto could be  construedas purely negative in character though positive in form,  itcannot be so construed in its setting in s. 22 of the MadrasAct, where it must have a positive content.Nor  is	 there much force in the contention  that  the	non-obstante clause in s. 22 has only the effect of substractingsomething  from the power to tax conferred on the  State  bythe  charging section, s. 3, read with s. 2 (h) and  not  ofadding to it.  In Aswini Kumar Ghosh and another v. ArabindaBose  and another (1), It was observed by this Court that  "the  enacting part of a statute must, where it is clear,  betaken  to control the non-obstante clause where both  cannotbe read harmoniously ". Now, as the Explanation lays down inclear and unambiguous terms that the sales of the  charactermentioned  therein  are	 to be deemed to  have	taken  placeinside	 the  State  in	 which	goods  are   delivered	 forconsumption,  full  effect  must be given  to  it,  and	 itsoperation  cannot  be  cut down by  reference  to  the	non-obstante clause.  It cannot be put against this constructionthat  it  renders the non-obstante  clause  ineffective	 anduseless.  According to the definition in s. 2 (h), a sale inwhich  property	 passes inside the State of Madras  will  beliable to be taxed, even though the goods are delivered	 forconsumption  outside that State, but under  the	 Explanationsuch  a sale will be deemed to have taken place in the	out-side State in which goods are delivered for consumption, andtherefore the State of Madras will have nO power to tax	 it:The  purpose  which  the non-obstante clause  serves  is  torender	the Explanation effective against the definition  ins. 2 (h) and not to render it ineffective in its own sphere,as determined on itsterms.But  it is contended that in order to reach this  result  itwas necessary that the Explanation to s. 22 should have beenmade  a part of the definition of " sale " under s.  2	(h),because under s. 3, which is the charging(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 1, 24.1448section, it is the turnover of sales that is subject to tax,that  sale for the purpose of that section is only  what  isdefined as " sale " under s. 2 (h), and that the Explanationsales  not  having been brought within that  definition,  nocharge could be imposed thereon.  The Explanation in s.	 22,it  is argued, cannot override s. 2 (h), and if	 its  objectwas  to	 confer on the State a power to	 tax  sales  fallingwithin its ambit, that has not, in fact, been achieved.	  Itis pointed out by way of contrast that in the Sales Tax Lawsof  some other States, such as Bihar and Uttar Pradesh,	 theExplanation has been added to the definition of sale.	Now,a  contention  that what the Legislature intended  to  bringabout	it  has	 failed	 to  do	 by  reason   of   defectivedraftsmanship is one which can only be accepted in the	lastresort,	 when there is no avenue left for escape  from	thatconclusion.   But  that clearly is not	the  position  here.Section 22 opens with the words " Nothing contained in	thisAct  ",	 and that means that that section is to be  read  ascontrolling, inter alia, the definition of sale in s. 2 (h).Otherwise,  sales  in which property passes  in	 Madras	 butdelivery  is outside that State would be taxable under s.  2(h)  and  under	 s.  3, even  though  they  are	 within	 theprohibition  enacted in s. 22.	If the provisions of  s.  22are  effective for the purpose of limiting the operation  ofs.  2  (h), we do not see any difficulty in  construing	 theExplanation therein as equally effective for the purpose  ofenlarging  it.	 Again, it is a rule of	 construction  well-establisbed  that  the several sections forming	 part  of  astatute should be read, unless there are compelling  reasonscontra,	 as  constituting a single scheme and  construed  insuch  manner as would give effect to all of them.   On	thisprinciple,  s.	2  (h) and s. 22 must be  read	together  asdefining what are sales, which are taxable under the Act andwhat are not, and so read, the Explanation really means thatin sales in which goods are delivered for consumption in theState  of  Madras, the property therein shall be  deemed  tohave passed inside that State, notwithstanding that it	has,under the Sale of Goods Act, passed outside that State.	  Onthis construction, those1449sales  will fall within the definition in s. 2 (h) and	willbe  taxable.   The  contention	of  the	 petitioners  highlytechnical and based oil the non-insertion of the Explanationin s. 2 (h) must, in our opinion, be rejectedas unsound.It  is next contended that the power of the President  underArt,. 372 (2) is merely to bring the provisions of the Statelaws  into conformity with Art. 286, and that having  regardto  the	 interpretation put on that Article  in	 The  BengalImmunity Company case (1), the Explanation in s. 22 would bevalid  in  so far as it prohibits the State of	Madras	fromimposing a tax on sales in which goods are delivered outsideMadras,	 though property therein passed inside	that  State,but  that  in  so far as it makes  taxable  sales  in  whichproperty  passes outside the State of Madras but  the  goodsthemselves  are delivered for consumption in Madras,  it  ismuch more than bringing the. ,State law into conformity withArt. 286, and is, in consequence, unauthorised and bad.	  Itis  argued  that such a provision could be  enacted  by	 theLegislature  of Madras, as was in fact, done by	 the  legis-latures	 of many of the States, but the President could	 notdo it in exercise of the special and limited power conferredon  him	 by  Art.  372(2).  That  power	 is  merely,  it  iscontended, to take the definition of " sale " in s. 2(h)  ofthe  Madras Act, strike out therefrom whatever is  repugnantto Art. 286, such as sales in which goods are delivered	 forconsumption  outside Madras, and leave it there and  not  toadd to it.We are not satisfied that that is a correct view to take  ofthe powers of the President under Art. 372(2).	It is to  beobserved  that	Art. 286(1)(a) and the	Explanation  theretoform,  in their setting in a taxing statute, integral  partsof and different facets of the same concept.  Sales in whichproperty passes outside the State of Madras but delivery forconsumption  is inside Madras are at once inside  sales	 forMadras	and outside sales for the other States.	 Now, if  inexercise  of  the  power  to adapt,  the  enactment  of	 theExplanation  is	 requisite to give effect to one  aspect  ofthat(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.1450concept,  that is, for prohibiting the State of Madras	fromtaxing	sales when goods are delivered outside, we  fail  tosee  why it should not operate to give effect to  the  otheraspect of the concept which is so integrally connected	withit,  viz., taxing of sales in which goods are delivered	 forconsumption  in	 the  State of Madras, if  its	language  iscomprehensive  and  wide enough to include such	 sales.	  Wefind it difficult to hold that the self-same Explanation  isintra  vires  the powers of the President in so	 far  as  itprohibits  the State from taxing gales, in which  goods	 aredelivered Outside the State but is ultra vires in so far  asit  authorises	that State to tax sales in which  goods	 aredelivered inside it.It  should be remembered in this connection that  the  powerwhich  the President has under Art. 372(2) to adapt  is	 thelegislative  power  of the State whose law is  adapted,	 andthat  includes the power to repeal and amend any  provision.Provided  that the law as adapted is within the	 legislativecompetence of the State and its enactment is in the  processof bringing the State law into conformity with Art. 286,  itseems  to us that it is within the ambit of the	 power	con-ferred	by  Art.  372(2).   The	 question,  however,  is  ofacademic  interest, because of the concluding words of	Art.372(2), which enact that no adaptation order made under thatprovision  shall  be  liable  to  be  questioned.   It	 wassuggested  for the -petitioners that these words would	haveno  application	 when the adaptation order went	 beyond	 theterms  of  Art.	 372(2), and that it was  open	to  them  tochallenge  its	validity on the ground that it	amounted  tomore  than  bringing the existing law into  conformity	withArt. 286.  We are unable to agree.  If the adaptation  orderis within the scope of Art. 372(2), then it is valid of	 itsown force, and does not require the aid of a clause such  asis contained in the concluding portions thereof.  It is onlywhen  the adaptation amounts to something more	than  merelybringing   the	 State	 law  into   conformity	  with	 theConstitutional	provisions that there can arise a  need	 forsuch a clause.	In our opinion, the effect of the concludingwords of Art. 372(2) is to1451render	the question of the validity of the adaptation	non-justiciable.	The  Adaptation	 Order	in  question   must,accordingly, be held to be not open to attack on the  groundthat it goes beyond the limits contemplated by Art. 372(2).It  is then argued that even though the Adaptation Order  ofthe  President might not be open to question even if it	 hadimposed for the first time a tax on sales which had not beenpreviously  imposed  by the Act,  nevertheless	in  decidingwhether	 it  does, in fact, impose such a tax, it  would  berelevant to take into account that the object of Art. 372(2)was  only to bring the State laws into conformity  with	 theConstitution,  and that, in consequence, the Explanation  ins.  22 must be construed as having the same meaning  as	 theExplanation  in Art. 286(1)(a).	 This would, no doubt, be  alegitimate consideration in interpreting the language of theExplanation,  but  then, it must be remembered that  at	 thetime   when  the  Adaptation  Order  was  made,	  the	trueinterpretation of the Explanation to Art. 286(1)(a) had	 notbeen the subjectmatter of any decision, and it is  thereforedifficult to impute to the framers of s. 22 the constructionput  by this Court on the Explanation to Art.  286(1)(a)  inThe  Bengal Immunity Company case (1) any more than the	 oneput  on it in The United Motors case (2).  We are  thereforethrown	back  on the language of the Explanation  itself  todiscover  its true scope.  If, in enacting the	Explanation,the  Adaptation Order merely intended to prohibit the  Stateof  Madras from imposing tax on sales under which goods	 aredelivered  for	consumption outside that State	even  thoughproperty therein passed inside that State, it would  clearlyhave  expressed	 that intention in words  to  the  followingeffect:	 " For the purposes of clause (a)(i), a	 sale  underwhich goods are delivered for consumption outside the  Stateof  Madras shall be deemed to have taken place outside	thatState,	notwithstanding that property in those goods  passedinside that State ". But the language of the Explanation  isgeneral, and fixes the situs of sales of(1) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.(2) [1953] S.C.R. 1069.1841452an  inter-State	 character in the State in which  goods	 areactually delivered for consumption.  Under this Explanation,a sale under which goods are delivered outside the State  ofMadras	will be an outside sale for that State	even  thoughproperty  in  the  goods  passed  inside  that	State,	 andlikewise, a sale under which goods are delivered inside	 theState of Madras will be an inside sale for that State,	eventhough property in the goods passed outside that State.	  Asthe language of the Explanation is general and of sufficientamplitude  not	merely to restrict but also to	add  to	 thepower  of  the State to tax Explanation sales,	and  as	 thereasons	 for  construing it as purely  restrictive  in	Art.286(1)(a)  are,	 as already stated, without force  in  theirapplication to a taxing statute, we must give full effect tothe  words of the enactment, and bold that they	 operate  toconfer on the State a power to tax Explanation sales.There is one other contention relating to this aspect of thematter,	 which	remains to be considered, and that  is	thateven  if the Explanation could be construed  as	 authorisingthe  imposition of a tax on the sales mentioned	 therein,  areading	 of the section as a whole makes it clear  that,  infact,  no such tax was imposed, as it expressly enacts	that"Nothing  contained in this Act shall be deemed to impose  atax  on	 inter-State  sales  ". The  argument  is  that	 theExplanation  sales being inter-State sales and	the  sectionhaving	exempted  them	from taxation, they go	out  of	 thestatute book altogether, and do not exist for the purpose ofthe  impugned  Act.   We  are  unable  to  agree  with	thiscontention.   Article  286(2)  consists of  two	 parts,	 oneimposing a restriction on the power possessed by the  Statesto  tax sales under Entry 54 in so far as such sales are  inthe  course of inter-State trade and commerce  and  another,vesting	 in Parliament a power to enact a law removing	thatrestriction.   If s. 22 had merely enacted that	 portion  ofArt.   286(2)  which  prohibited  imposition  of  taxes	  oninterstate  sales, that might have furnished some  plausibleground for the contention now urged by the  petitioners.:butit enacts both the parts of Art. 286(2),1453the  restriction imposed therein and also the  condition  onwhich  that  restriction  is  to  cease,  viz.,	  Parliamentproviding  otherwise by law.  Taken along with the  admittedpower  of the States to impose tax on sales under Entry	 54,the true scope of s. 22 is that it does impose	  a  tax  onthe Explanation sales, but the imposition    is	  to	takeeffect only when Parliament lifts the ban.   In other words,it  is a piece of legislation imposing tax in praesenti	 butwith  a condition annexed that it is to come into  force  infuturo	as  and	 when Parliament so  provides.	 It  is	 notcontended  that there is in the Constitution any  inhibitionagainst conditional legislation.  In The Queen v. Burah (1),it  was held by the Privy Council that a legislature  actingwithin	the  ambit  of	authority conferred  on	 it  by	 theConstitution has the power to enact a law either  absolutelyor  conditionally,  and that position  has  been  repeatedlyaffirmed in this Court.	 Vide In  The Delhi Laws Act,  1912,etc.  (2) and Sardar Inder Singh v. State  of  Rajasthan(3).It  would  clearly be within the competence  of	 the  MadrasLegislature  to	 enact	a  law	imposing  a  tax  on   salesconditional  on the ban enacted in Art. 286(2) being  liftedby  Parliamentary legislation, and that, in our opinion,  isall that has been done in s. 22.  The Madras Act defines theevent  on which the tax becomes payable and the person	fromwhom and the rate at which it has to be levied, and forms  acomplete  code on the topic under consideration.   It  couldhave no immediate operation by reason of the bar imposed  byArt.  286(2),  but  when once that is removed by  a  law  ofParliament,  there is no impediment to its  being  enforced.That  satisfies	 all  the  requirements	 of  a	 conditionallegislation.  But it was argued that s. 22 of the Madras Actcould  not be so construed, because it was not open  to	 thePresident  acting in exercise of the power conferred on	 himunder Art. 372 (2) to impose a conditional levy ; nor  wouldit be competent to the Legislature of Madras to make a	levyconditional  or otherwise, unless Parliament had  authorisedit.  We see no force in this argument.	As(1) (1878) L.R. 5 I.A. 178.	   (2) [1951] S.C.R. 747.(3)  [1957] S.C.R. 605.1454Art. 286(2) is itself in two parts, one a restriction on thepower of the State and the other, a condition on which	suchrestriction  will  cease  to  operate,	an  adaptation	madepursuant thereto must also be similar in its contents.	 Noris there in Art. 286 (2) any prohibition of any	 legislationby tile State Legislature against enacting laws imposing taxon  interstate	sales.	It merely enacts that such  law	 canhave no effect.	 The words "No law of a State shall impose "mean  only that no such law shall be effective to  impose  atax.It is also contended that under the Sales Tax Acts, the levyof  tax	 is annual and the rules contemplate  submission  ofquarterly returns and payment of taxes every quarter on	 theadmitted turnover, and that a conditional legislation  underwhich payment of tax will become enforceable in futuro wouldbe  inconsistent with the scheme of the Act and	 the  rules.But this argument, when examined, comes to no more than thisthat  the existing rules do not provide a machinery for	 thelevy and the collection of taxes which might become  payablein  future,  when Parliament lifts the ban.   Assuming	thatthat  is the true position, that does not affect the  factumof the imposition, which is the only point with which we arenow concerned.	That the States will have to frame rules forrealizing the tax which becomes now payable is not a  groundfor  holding that there is, in fact, no imposition  of	tax.It  should  also be mentioned in this  connection  that	 theMadras Act makes a clear distinction between sales which areoutside the operation of the Act, and sales which are withinits  operation	but  are exempt from  taxation.	  Section  4provides  that the provisions of the Act shall not apply  tothe  sale of electrical energy, motor  spirit,	manufacturedtobacco and certain other articles.  In contrast to this  isthe  language of s. 22, which expressly enacts that the	 Actshall  not be deemed to impose a tax on	 inter-State  sales,except in so far as Parliament may by law otherwise provide.We are of opinion that, on the true construction of s. 22 ofthe Act, there is an imposition of tax on Explanation  salesbut  that  it  could be enforced  only	when  Parliament  soprovides.1455We  have so far considered the question on principle and  onthe  language  of the statute.	We may now.,. refer  to	 thedecisions of the High Courts, wherein this question has beenconsidered.   In Mettur Industries Ltd. v. State  of  Madras(1), the point directly arose for decision as to whether  s.22  of	the  Madras  Act did. in fact, levy  a	tax  on	 theExplanation sales so as to fall within the protection of theSales  Tax  Laws  Validation  Act.  It	was  held  that	 theExplanation  to s. 22 had' the effect of rendering the	saleone inside the State so as to fall within the definition  ofthat  word  in s. 2 (h), and that it was taxable.   Next  inpoint  of time is the decision of the Bombay High  Court  inDial Das v. P. S. Talwalkar (2) in which the question  arosewith  reference to s. 46 of the Bombay Sales Tax  Act  (Bom.III of 1953), corresponding to s. 22 of the Madras Act.	  Itwas held that it did impose a tax, though it was to  operateonly  if  Parliament  so  provided.  Then,  there  are	 twodecisions  of  the Travancore-Cochin High Court,  Mathew  v.Travancore-Cochin  Board of Revenue(3) and Cochin Coal	Co.,Ltd. v. State Of Travancore-Cochin(4), in which it was	heldthat  s. 26 of the Travancore-Cochin General Sales  Tax	 Actcorresponding to s. 22 of the Madras Act, had not the effectof  imposing,  of its own force, a tax	on  the	 Explanationsales, and the decision in Mettur Industries Ltd. v.  MadrasState (supra) was not followed.	 In The -Mysore Spinning andManufacturing  Co., Ltd. v. Deputy Commercial  Tax  Officer,Madras (5) the Madras High Court re-affirmed the view  whichit  had taken in Mettur Industries Ltd. v. State  of  Madras(supra),  and held that s. 22 had the effect of	 imposing  atax  on the Explanation sales.	In The Government of  Andhrav.   Nooney Govindarajulu (supra), the true effect of s.  22of  the	 Madras	 Act came up for  consideration	 before	 theAndhra	High Court, and it was held therein,  dffering	fromMettur	Industries Ltd. v. State of Madras (1) and Dial	 Dasv.  P. S. Talwalkar (2) that in view of the observations  ofthis Court as to the scope of the(1)  A.I.R. 1957 Mad. 362.(2)  A.I.R. 1957 Bom. 71.(3)  A.I.R. 1957 T.C. 300.(4)  (1956) 7 Sales Tax Cases 731.(5)  A.I.R. 1957 Mad. 368.1456Explanation  in Art. 286 (1) (a), the Explanation in  s.  22could  not  be	construed as imposing a	 tax  on  the  salesmentioned therein, and that that conclusion also followed onthe opening words of the section that " Nothing contained inthis  Act shall be deemed to impose, or authorise the  impo-sition	of a tax.................. For the  reasons  alreadygiven,	we are unable to agree with the decisions in  Mathewv.  Travancore-Cochin Board of Revenue(1), Cochin  Coal	 Co.Ltd. v. State of Travancore-Cochin(2) and The Government  ofAndhra v. Nooney Govindarajulu (3).  We are of opinion	thatthe  law has been correctly laid down in  Mettur  IndustriesLtd. v. State of Madras (4) and Dial Das v. P. S.  Talwalkar(5).   We accordingly hold that s. 22 operated to  impose  atax falling within the Explanation, subject to authorisationby  Parliament as provided in Art. 286 (2).  In	 this  view,the  contention	 urged	on behalf of  the  States  that	 theExplanation  to Art. 286 (1) (a), being a provision  of	 theConstitution,  operated by its own force to impose a tax  onthe  sales  covered  by	 it,  and  did	not  require  to  besupplemented  by any State legislation to become  effective,does not call for any detailed consideration.  Suffice it tosay  that it cannot be maintained if the true scope of	Art.286 is to define and limit the powers of State	Legislatureswith reference to imposition of sales tax and not to  itselfimpose it.(11) That brings us on to the next question which is whetherthe  impugned Act, Sales Tax Laws Validation Act,  is  ultravires  on the ground that it is not authorised by the  termsof  Art.  286  (2).   Now,  it	is  a  well-known  rule	  ofinterpretation	that in order to understand the true  natureand  scope of an Act it is necessary to ascertain  what	 theevils  were which were intended to be redressed by it.	 Thestarting  point of the trouble which ultimately led  to	 theenactment  of  the impugned Act is the Explanation  to	Art.286(1)(a),  which came into force on January 26, 1950.	 Theterms in which it is worded undoubtedly suggest that sales(1)  A.I. R. 1957 T.C. 300.(2)  (1956) 7 Sales Tax Cases 731.(3)  (1957) 8 Sales Tax Cases 297.(4)  A.I.R. 1957 Mad. 362.(5) A.I.R. 1957 Bom. 71.1457of  the description mentioned therein are to be	 treated  assales  inside the delivery State for purposes  of  taxation.That  is  how it would seem to have been understood  in	 theAdaptation  Order  under  which s. 22 was  inserted  in	 theMadras	Sales Tax Act and in the Adaptation Orders  relatingto  the	 Sales	Tax Laws of other States;  for,	 as  alreadystated, in a taxing statute the language of the	 Explanationcan  only mean that a sale failing within its purview is  aninside	sale  enabling the State to tax it.  In	 The  UnitedMotors	case (1), the construction put by this Court on	 theExplanation  was that though but for it the sales  mentionedtherein	 would	be  in the course of  interState  trade	 andcommerce,  its	effect was to convert them  into  intrastatesales,	so as to bring them within the taxing power  of	 thedelivery  State.   It was only later that  this	 Court	heldfinally	 in  The Bengal Immunity Company case (2)  that	 theExplanation  sales were not divested of their  character  asinter-State sales as the Explanation to Art. 286 (1) (a) didnot  govern  Art.  286	(2), and  that	in  the	 absence  ofParliamentary  legislation as contemplated by Art. 286	(2),taxation  of  sales  falling within  its  purview  would  beunconstitutional.  This judgment was delivered on  September6, 1955.But  acting  on	 the  apparent	tenor  and  import  of	 theExplanation  and the construction put upon it in The  UnitedMotors case (1), the States in India had been levying  taxesoil  the sales falling within its purview.  The position  onSeptember  6,  1955,  was that the States  had	imposed	 andcollected large amounts by way of tax on Explanation  sales;that there were proceedings pending for assessment of tax onsuch sales; and that apart from this, the States would	havebeen  entitled to take, but for the decision in	 The  BengalImmunity Company case (2), proceedings for the assessment oftax  in	 respect  of those sales.  Now, the  result  of	 thedecision  in The Bengal Immunity Company case (2)  was	thatthe  levy  of  the  tax	 on  the  Explanation  sales  becameunauthorised and the States were faced with large claims forrestitution of the(1) [1953] S.C.R. 1069.(2) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.1458amounts	  realised,  involving	threat	to  their   economicstability.   It should also be mentioned that quite a  largenumber of dealers had, acting under provisions of the  SalesTax Acts which empowered them to pass the tax on,  collectedit  from their purchasers for the purpose of payment to	 theState,	and  as after the decision in  The  Bengal  ImmunityCompany case (1) they could no longer be called upon to	 payit, they stood to make an unjust gain of it.These were the evils which called for redress, and it was toremedy them that Parliament enacted the Sales Tax ValidationOrdinance No. III of 1956, and eventually replaced it by theimpugned Act.  Section 2 of the Act provides that no law  ofa  State  imposing a tax on sales which took  place  in	 thecourse	of  interState trade or commerce  between  April  1,1951,  and September 6, 1955, shall be deemed to be  invalidor  ever to have been invalid merely by reason of  the	factthat  such  sales were in the course of	 inter-State  trade.The  section  further  provides that  all  taxes  levied  orcollected under such a law during the specified period shallbe  deemed  to have been validly levied	 or  collected.	 Thepolicy	behind	the Act is obviously to declare the  law  asinterpreted  in	 The  United  Motors case  (2)	as  the	 lawgoverning  sales  filling within the Explanation up  to	 thedate of the judgment in The Bengal Immunity Company  case(1)and to give effect to the law as laid down in that  decisionfor the sales effected subsequent thereto.The  question  is whether this Act  is	unconstitutional  asbeing  ultra vires the powers of Parliament tinder Art'	 286(2).   The petitioners maintain that it is, and put  forwardseveral grounds in support of that position.  It is  firstlycontended by them that under Entry 54 in List II, the  powerto  make  laws	in  respect  of	 tax  on  sales	 is   vestedexclusively in the States, that the power which is conferredon  Parliament	under  Art. 286(2) is only to  enact  a	 lawdirecting or permitting the States to impose a tax on inter-States	sales and not to itself enact a law  with  referencethereto that the impugned Act being one to validate Sales(1) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.(2) [1953] S.C.R. 1069.1459Tax  Laws is substantive in character and is not  authorisedby  the	 terms	of  Art. 286 (2)  and  is,  in	consequence,unconstitutional.   It	is  argued that to  validate  is  toconfirm	 or ratify, and that can be only in respect of	actswhich  one  could  have	 himself  performed,  and  that	  ifParliament  cannot  enact a law relating to  sales  tax,  itcannot	validate such a law either, and that such a  law  isaccordingly unauthorised and void.  The only basis for	thiscontention in the Act is its description in the Short  Titleas  the " Sales Tax Laws Validation Act " and  the  marginalnote to s.     2,  which is similarly worded.  But the	truenature of a law has to be determined not on the label  givento   it	 in the statute but on its substance.  Section 2  ofthe  impugned  Act which is the only  substantive  enactmenttherein	 makes	no  mention  of	 any  validation.   It	onlyprovides that no law of a State imposing tax on sales  shallbe deemed to be invalid merely because such sales are in thecourse of inter-State trade or commerce.  The effect of thisprovision  is  merely to liberate the State  laws  from	 thefetter	placed	on them by Art. 286 (2) and to	enable	suchlaws  to operate on their own terms.  The true scope of	 theimpugned Act is, to adopt the language of this Court in	 thedecisions  in  The  United Motors case (1)  and	 The  BengalImmunity Company case (2), that it lifts the ban imposed  onthe States against taxing inter-State sales and not that  itvalidates  or  ratifies	 any  such  law.   Considering	 thelegislation  on its substance, we have .no doubt that it  iswithin the scope of the authority conferred on Parliament byArt. 286 (2) and is notultra vires.It  is	next  contended	 that the  impugned  Act  is  whollyretrospective  in  character in that it	 operates  on  saleswhich took place during the specified period, and that	sucha  legislation is, having regard to the intendment  of	Art.286 (2), outside its terms.  It is argued that this Article,to  start  with, enacts a restriction on the  power  of	 theState to impose taxes on inter-State sales and then vests inParliament a power(1) [1933] S.C.R. 1069.(2) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.1851460to  remove  that restriction, and that in  logical  sequencetherefore, there should first be a legislation by Parliamentauthorising  the States to impose a tax on interState  salesand  then a law of the State made in  accordance  therewith,and  that  that order having been reversed  in	the  presentcase, the impugned Act is unconstitutional.  We do not agreewith this contention.  Article 286 (2) merely provides	thatno  law of a State shall impose tax on inter-State  sales  "except in so far as Parliament may by law otherwise  provide". It places no restrictions on the nature of the law to  bepassed by Parliament.  On the other hand, the words " in  sofar  as " clearly leave it to Parliament to decide  oil	 theform  and  nature of the law to be enacted by it.   What  ismaterial   to  observe	is  that  the  power  conferred	  onParliament  under Art. 286 (2) is a legislative	 power,	 andsuch  a power conferred on a Sovereign	Legislature  carrieswith  it  authority to enact a law either  prospectively  orretrospectively,   unless   there  can	be  found   in	 theConstitution itself a limitation on that power.	 Now,  thereis nothing express in Art. 286 (2) imposing a restriction onthe  power of Parliament to enact a law	 with  retrospectiveoperation.  But it is argued for the petitioners that such arestriction is to be implied from the scheme of it, which isthat  there  is a prohibition on the power of the  State  toenact  a  law  imposing tax  on	 inter-State  sales,  unlessParliament lifts the ban, and it is said that a	 prohibitionoperates  only in futuro and therefore a law  removing	thatprohibition  must also operate in futuro.  The	decision  ofthe  Privy Council in Punjab Province v. . Daulat Singh	 (1)is  relied  on in support of this proposition.	 There,	 thequestion arose with reference to the validity of a  mortgageof  agricultural  lands in the Punjab executed in  the	year1933.	Section	 13-A of the Punjab Alienation of  Land	 Actwhich  came  into force in 1939 enacted that transfer  of  aland  by  a  member of an agricultural tribe  in  favour  ofanother member of the tribe was void if the transferee was abenamidar  for a person who was not a member of that  tribe,whether such transfer was(1)  (1946) L.R. 73 I.A. 59.1461made  before or after the Act.	The mortgagee  instituted  asuit,  challenging the vires of this section on	 the  groundthat  it  contravened s. 298(1) of the Government  of  IndiaAct,  1935,  which provided that no subject of	His  Majestydomiciled  in  India  shall be	prohibited  from  acquiring,holding	 or  disposing	of  property  on  grounds  only	  ofreligion, place of birth or descent.  The mortgagor in replyrelied	on  s. 298 (2) which enacted that  nothing  in	thatsection	 shall	affect	the  operation	of  any	 law   whichprohibits the sale or mortgage of agricultural land  situatein  any particular area and owned by a person  belonging  tothe agriculturist class.  In rejecting this contention,	 thePrivy Council observed that what was saved by s. 298 (2) wasa law prohibiting certain kinds of transfers, that the	word" prohibition " could properly apply only to acts to be donein  futuro,  and that the impugned provision, s.  13-A,	 wasintra  vires  the Constitutional provision in so far  as  itprohibited transfers after the date of its enactment, but tothe  extent that it avoided transfers which had taken  placeprior  to  that	 date, it was ultra  vires.   This  decisionproceeded solely on the connotation of the word "  prohibits"  in s. 298 (2) of the Government of India Act, and can  beof  no	assistance  in the construction	 of  Art.  286	(2),wherein that word does not occur.  And even on the substanceof  it,	 we see no real analogy between the case  in  PunjabProvince  v. Daulat Singh (1) and the present.	 There,	 thelaw  which was authorised by s. 298 (2) was one	 prohibitingcertain	  transfers;  here  the	 law  which  Parliament	  isauthorised  to make is one not prohibiting the	States	fromimposing tax on inter-State sales, but permitting them to doso.  While a law prohibiting transfers must be	prospective,a law authorising imposition of tax need not be.  It can  beboth prospective and retrospective.A  decision more directly in point is the one in The  UnitedProvinces  v. Atiqa Begum(2).  There, the question arose  onthe  construction of s. 292 of the Government of India	Act,1935, which enacted that," Notwithstanding the repeal by this Act of the(1) (1946) I. R. 73 I. A. 59.(2) [1940] F. C. R.   110.1462Government of India Act, but subject to the other provisionsof  this  Act,	all  the  law  in  force  in  British  Indiaimmediately before the commencement of Part III of this	 Actshall  continue in force in British India until	 altered  orrepealed  or  amended by a competent  Legislature  or  othercompetent authority."The  Legislature of the United Provinces had enacted  a	 lawmodifying  the pre-existing law relating to the	 payment  ofrents  by tenants to landlords and giving  it  retrospectiveoperation.   The  question  was whether	 the  enactment	 wasrepugnant to s. 292 which had provided that the	 preexistinglaw  was to continue in force until it was altered.  It	 washeld that the power of a legislature to pass a law  includeda power to pass it retrospectively, and that the words of s.292 did not operate to impose any restriction on that power,and  that the legislation was intra vires. In  our  opinion,the principle of this decision is applicable to the  presentcase,  and the impugned Act cannot be held to be bad on	 theground that it is retrospective in operation.It  is next contended that the impugned Act is ultra  vires,inasmuch  as it is much more than a mere retrospective	law,and that it is really a piece of ex post facto	legislation,which  is  not authorised by Art. 286(2).  The	argument  insupport	 of  this contention may thus be stated :  A'  Statelegislature is competent under Entry 54 in List II to  enacta  law taxing sale of goods, and when such a law is made  tooperate	 retrospectively it may not be open to challenge  onconstitutional grounds, though its propriety may be open  toquestion on grounds of policy.	Parliament has no competenceto  enact  laws in respect of tax on  sales  filling  withinEntry  54 in List 11, but Art. 286(2) confers on it a  powerto  authorise  the  States to impose a	tax  on	 inter-Statesales.	The impugned Act does not do that, but validates  expost   facto   laws   of  States   imposing   such   a	 taxretrospectively	 for the specified period.  Such  a  generallaw may be intra vires the States but not Parliament, nor isit one which can be justified by the power granted to it  to"  provide otherwise." It is therefore unconstitutional	 andvoid, In1463our  opinion,  this argument is only an amalgam of  the	 twocontentions already dealt with, and does not require furtherdetailed  consideration.  The impugned Act, though it is  inname  a validating Act, is in essence a law lifting the	 banunder Art. 286 (2), and if no limitation on the character ofthat law could be spelt out of the language of that Article,then it must be upheld as within the authority conferred  byit.It  is	also  argued that even if the power to	make  a	 lawconferred  on  Parliament under Art. 286 (2)  comprehends  apower  to  enact a law with  retrospective  operation,	thatpower cannot extend to authorising what is unconstitutional,and  that as s. 22 of the, Madras Act and the  correspondingprovisions   in	  the	statutes  of   other   States	wereunconstitutional  and illegal when made as contravening	 theprohibition  enacted in Art. 286 (2), the impugned Act	mustbe held to be unauthorised and bad in that it seeks to	giveeffect	to  those provisions.  But this is to beg  the	veryquestion which we have to decide.  If it is competent to thelegislatures of the States to enact a law imposing a tax  oninter-State   sales  to	 take  effect  when  Parliament	  soprovides,  there  is  nothing  unconstitutional	 or  illegaleither	in s. 22 of the Madras Act or in  the  correspondingprovisions  in	the Acts of other  States.   If	 conditionallegislation  is valid, as we have held it is, then s. 22  isclearly	 intra	vires,	and the	 foundation  on	 which	thiscontention of the petitioners rests, disappears and it	mustfall  to the ground.  In the result, we are of opinion	thatthe  impugned  Act  is	intra vires,  and  is  not  open  tochallenge  on  any  of	the  grounds  put  forward  by	 thepetitioners.(111)	  (a).	We have now to consider the contention	thateven  if  the  impugned Act is valid, that  would  not	giveefficacy  to  s. 22 of the Madras Act or  the  correspondingprovisions  in	the laws of other States which	came  in  byadaptation under Art. 372 (2).	The ground urged in  supportof this contention is that the expression " law of a State "in  Art.  286 (2) has a technical import, and  means  a	 lawwhich is enacted by the legislature of a State in the mannerprescribed  by	the Constitution and open  to  challenge  incourts if1464it is unconstitutional, that that expression occurring	,-ins. 2 of the impugned Act must bear the same meaning which ithas  in	 Art.  286 (2) as it was enacted,  pursuant  to	 theauthority  contained therein, and that s. 22 of	 the  MadrasAct is not a law of that description, as it was made by	 thePresident in exercise, of the special power conferred on himby  Art. 372 (2), and is, as provided therein, not  open  toattack in a court of law.We do not see why we should restrict the connotation of	 thewords " law of a State " in the manner contended above.	 Thelaw  of	 a  State signifies, in	 its  ordinary	acceptation,whatever   is	an  expression	of   the   legislative,	  asdistinguished  from  the executive or judicial	power  of  aState.	 Its normal mode under the Constitution is no  doubtthat  it  is  enacted  by  the	legislature  of	 the   Stateconstituted  in	 accordance with  the  procedure  prescribedtherein.   But	that  is  not the only	mode  in  which	 thelegislative  power of the State could be  exercised.   UnderArt.  213,  the	 Governor  is  authorised,  subject  to	 theconditions laid down therein, to issue Ordinances which havethe  force of law, and these Ordinances are clearly laws  ofthe State and not the less so by reason of their not  havingbeen passed by the State legislature.  Under Art. 252, it isopen to Parliament acting on resolutions of the legislaturesof  two or more States, to enact laws on subjects which	 arewithin	the  exclusive competence of the  States,  a  recentinstance  of  such  legislation being Act 42  of  1955,	 thevalidity of which was the subject of consideration in R.  M.D.  Charnarbaugwalla  v.  Union of  India(1).	Can  it,  becontended  that these are not laws of the States  for  whichthey  were  enacted,  because they were not  passed  by	 thelegislatures of those States ? We entertain no doubt that bythe expression " law of a State " in Art. 286 (2) and s.   2of the impugned Act is meant whatever operates as law in thestate, and that s. 22 of the Madras Act is   a	law   withinthose  enactments.  Nor does it affect this conclusion	thatthat law may not be open to challenge in a court of law.   Aright to challenge a(1)  [1957] S.C.R. 930.1465law  must  depend  on the  provisions  of  the	Constitutiongoverning the matter, and if those provisions enact that  itis  not	 open to question in a court of law or' that  it  isliable	to be questioned only on certain specified  grounds,that  will not have the effect of depriving a  statute	dulyenacted of its character as law.  We are also not  satisfiedthat  a	 law as adapted under Art. 372 (2) is  not  open  toattack on the ground that it contravenes some constitutionalprovision.   We	 are disposed to think that  the  concludingwords  of Art. 372 (2) preclude an attack on the  AdaptationOrder  only  on	 the ground that it does  more	than  merelybringing the State law into conformity with the Constitutionand is, in consequence, ultra vires the powers conferred  bythat article.  In the result, we must hold that s. 22 of theMadras Act is within the protection afforded by s. 2 of	 theimpugned Act.(111)  (b)  : The next contention of  the  petitioners	thatfalls  to be considered is whether even on the footing	thatthe  impugned  Act is intra vires the powers  of  Parliamentunder Art. 286 (2), the proceedings which are proposed to betaken by the State of Andhra against them for assessment  oftax  are incompetent, because the Act validates only  leviesor collections made during the specified period but does notauthorise  the initiation of fresh proceedings for  levy  orcollection of tax.  It is contended that though s. 2 of	 theimpugned  Act consists of two clauses, one giving effect  tolaws  of States imposing tax on inter-State sales in so	 faras they took place during the specified period and the othervalidating  levy  or  collection of  tax  made	during	thatperiod,	 the first clause has no independent operation,	 theonly purpose which it serves being to lead up to the  secondwhich  is the only effective clause in the section.   It  isargued	that  if the intention of the  legislature  was	 notmerely	to validate the levies or collections  already	madebut  also to maintain the laws in force so as to enable	 theStates to take fresh proceedings for assessment and levy  oftax,  then  there  was no need	whatsoever  for	 the  secondclause,	 as  effectuation  of the  Act	would  automaticallyvalidate the levies and collections made thereunder.  It  issaid1466that the object of the legislation was only to see that	 theStates had not to refund amounts collected by them, and thatfor  achieving	that object it was necessary  only  to	giveeffect to the second clause.  The decision in Dialdas v.  P.S. Talwalkar (1) already cited, was relied on as  supportingthe petitioners on this point.In our judgment, the language of the enactment is too  clearand unambiguous to admit of this contention.  If the purposeof  the enactment is what the petitioners contend it to	 be,then nothing would have been easier for the legislature thanto have so framed the section as to confine its operation tolevies or collections already made, without giving effect tothe  law itself.  On the contention of the petitioners,	 thefirst clause has to be discarded as wholly inoperative,	 andwe  should  be 10th to adopt a construction which  leads  tothat result.  It is true that on the contention of the Statethat  the first clause has independent operation the  secondclause would be unnecessary, as even without it, the  resultsought to be achieved by it must follow on the first  clauseitself.	  But  it is to be noted that the first	 clause	 hasreference  to  the exercise of legislative power  while	 thesecond	is concerned with administrative action, and  it  ispossible  that the second clause might have been enacted  byway  of abundant caution.  It is nothing strange or  unusualfor  a	legislature  to	 insert	 a  provision  ex  abundanticautela,  so as to disarm possible objection; but it is	 in-conceivable that it should enact a provision which is whollyinoperative.  Of two alternative constructions of which	 oneleads  to  the	former and the	other  involves	 the  latterresult,	 there cannot be any question that it is the  formerthat is to be preferred.  Nor is it permissible to cut	downthe plain meaning of the terms of the statute on  considera-tions of policy behind the legislation.	 But even from	thatpoint  of view, there was the fact that there  were  dealerswho had collected taxes from their purchasers for payment tothe State, but were relieved of(1)  A.I.R. 1957 Bom. 71.1467that  obligation  by  the judgment in  The  Bengal  ImmunityCompany case (1) and that, further, to validate only  leviesand  collections made would give an advantage to  those	 whoevaded	the law as then understood, over those	who  loyallyobeyed it.  It follows that we are unable to agree with	 thedecision in Dialdas v. P. S. Talwalkar (2), in so far as  itheld  that it was not competent to the State to start  freshproceedings  for  assessment of tax on the strength  of	 theimpugned Act.  In our opinion, the true construction of s. 2is  that  the two clauses therein are, as indicated  by	 theconjunction, distinct and independent in their opera.  tion,and that the laws of the States are kept in force in respectof sales which had taken place during the specified  period,and  that proceedings in respect thereof for assessment	 arewithin the protection of the Act.It  was	 next argued that the impugned Act  is	a  temporarystatute,  as  its operation is limited to sales	 which	tookplace  during the specified period, and that  period  havingexpired,  no proceedings could now be taken on the  strengthof  the provisions of that Act, and reliance was  placed  onthe observations of this Court in Keshavan Madhava Menon  v.The  State of Bombay (3), in support of this position.	 Butthe  impugned Act is in no sense a temporary Act.  Its	lifeis  not limited to any specified period.  It is a  permanentstatute	 operating on all sales which took place during	 thespecified  period.   The fallacy in this contention  of	 thepetitioners  lies in mixing up the period, the sales  duringwhich are brought within the operation of the Act, with	 theperiod	of the operation of the Act itself.  The former	 maybe said to be temporary, but the latter clearly is not.(IV) It	 is  next contended that even if  the  impugned	 Actauthorised  starting of fresh proceedings for assessment  oftax  on the Explanation sales which had taken  place  duringthe  specified	period, no action in that  behalf  could  betaken under s. 22 of the(1) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.      (2) A.I.R. 1957 Bom. 71.(3) [1951] S.C.R. 228, 235.1861468Andhra	(Madras) Act, because it was, when it  was  enacted,repugnant  to  Art.  286(2) of	the  Constitution,  and	 wastherefore  void.   It  is argued that  a  statute  which  isunconstitutional is a nullity and must be treated as non estand that the impugned Act could not infuse life into it.  Itmay be open, it is said, to the Legislature of the State  ofAndhra	to  enact a fresh law giving it	 even  retrospectiveoperation  as  provided	 in the impugned  Act,	but  in	 theabsence of such a legislation, the provisions of the Act  asthey  stood  prior  to the impugned  Act  are  incapable  ofenforcement.	It  would  be  sufficient  answer  to	thiscontention  that s. 22 of the Madras Act is only a piece  ofconditional  legislation, imposing tax on  interState  saleswhen  Parliament should enact a law lifting the ban, and  ifsuch legislation is competent as we have held it is, then noquestion  of unconstitutionality of the section when it	 wasenacted	 could arise.  But it would be more satisfactory  todecide	the point on its own merits, as the question  raisedhas been, of late, the subject of considerable discussion inthis Court.Now,  in  considering  the  question as	 to  the  effect  ofunconstitutionality  of	 a statute, it is necessary  to	 re-member	that unconstitutionality might arise either  becausethe law is in respect of a matter not within the  competenceof  the	 legislature,  or because the  matter  itself  beingwithin	 its   competence,  its	  provisions   offend	someconstitutional	restrictions.	In  a  Federal	Constitutionwhere  legislative powers are distributed between  differentbodies,	 the  competence  of  the  legislature	to  enact  aparticular  law must depend upon whether the topic  of	thatlegislation  has  been assigned by the Constitution  Act  tothat  legislature.  Thus, a law of the State on an Entry  inList  1,  Sch.	 VII of the  Constitution  would  be  whollyincompetent and void.  But the law may be on a topic  withinits competence, as for example, an Entry in List II, but  itmight  infringe restrictions imposed by the Constitution  onthe  character	of  the law to be passed,  as  for  example,limitations  enacted in Part III of the Constitution.	Herealso, the law to the extent of the repugnancy will be1469void.	Thus,  a  legislation  on a  topic  not	 within	 thecompetence  of the legislature and a legislation within	 itscompetence but violative of constitutional limitations	haveboth the same reckoning in a court of law; they are both  ofthem unenforceable.  But does it follow from this that	boththe laws are of the same quality and character, and stand onthe  same footing for all purposes ? This question has	beenthe  subject of consideration in numerous decisions  in	 theAmerican  Courts, and the preponderance of authority  is  infavour	of the view that while a law on a matter not  withinthe  competence of the legislature is a nullity, a law on  atopic	within	 its  competence  but	repugnant   to	 theconstitutional	prohibitions  is only  unenforceable.	Thisdistinction   has   a  material	 bearing  on   the   presentdiscussion.  If a law is on a field not within the domain ofthe  legislature,  it  is absolutely null and  void,  and  asubsequent cession of that field to the legislature will nothave the effect of breathing life into what was a still-bornpiece of legislation and a fresh legislation on the  subjectwould  be  requisite.	But if the law is in  respect  of  amatter	assigned  to  the  legislature	but  its  provisionsdisregard constitutional prohibitions, though the law  wouldbe  unen.  forceable by reason of those	 prohibitions,	whenonce they are removed, the law will become effective withoutre-enactment.Willoughby on the Constitution of the United States, Vol. 1,at p. 11 says :"  The	validity  of  a	 statute is  to	 be  tested  by	 theconstitutional	power  of a legislature at the time  of	 itsenactment  by  that legislature, and, if thus tested  it  isbeyond	the  legislative power, it is  not  rendered  valid,without re-enactment, if later, by constitutional amendment,the necessary legislative power is granted.However,  it has been held that where an act is	 within	 thegeneral	 legislative  power  of the enacting  body,  but  isrendered  unconstitutional  by reason of  some	adventitiouscircumstance,  as for example, when a State  legislature  isprevented  from	 regulating a matter by reason of  the	factthat the Federal1470Congress  has  already legislated upon that  matter,  or  byreason of its silence is to be construed as indicating	thatthere should be no regulation, tile act does not need to  bere-enacted  in	order to be enforced, if this cause  of	 itsunconstitutionality is removed."In Cooley on Constitutional Law at p. 201, it is stated that"  a  finding of unconstitutionality does  not	destroy	 thestatute	 but merely involves a refusal to enforce  it".	  InWilkerson  v. Rahrer (1), the State of Kansas had enacted  alaw  in	 1889 forbidding the sale  of  intoxicating  liquor.This was bad in so far as it related to sales in the  courseof  interstate	trade,	as it was in  contravention  of	 theCommerce  Clause.   But in 1890, the Congress passed  a	 lawconferring  authority  on the States  to  enact	 prohibitionlaws.  The question was whether a prosecution under the	 lawof 1889 in respect of a breach of that law subsequent to theCongress  legislation in 1890 was  maintainable.   Repellingthe  contention that the statute of 1889 was a nullity	whenit was passed and could not be enforced without reenactment,the Court observed:" This is not the case of a law enacted in the	unauthorizedexercise of a power exclusively confided to Congress, but ofa  law	which it was competent for the State  to  pass,	 butwhich  could not operate upon articles occupying  a  certainsituation  until the passage of the Act of  Congress.	ThatAct  in	 terms	removed the obstacle,  and  we	perceive  noadequate  ground  for adjudging that a re-enactment  of	 thestate law was required before it could have the effect	uponimported which it had always had upon domestic property."It should be noted that in this case the law of 1889 appliedto  intrastate	sales also, and it was admittedly  valid  tothat   extent.	 The  impugned	legislation  was   thereforeunconstitutional only in part.	Rottschafer after  referringto  the	 conflict of authorities on 'this  question  in	 theStates, refers to the decision in Wilkerson v. Rahrer (1) asembodying  the	better view.  Vide  American  ConstitutionalLaw, 1939 Edn. p. 39.A similar view was taken in Ulster Transport(1)  (1891) I40 U.S. 545; 35 L. Ed. 572.1471Authority v. James Brown & Sons Ltd. (1).  There, construings. 5(1) of the Act of 1920 which enacts that " any law	madein  contravention of the restrictions imposed by  this	sub-section	 shall so far as it contravenes these  restrictions,be void ", Lord MacDermottL.   C. J. observed:" I am not aware of any authority for the view that languagesuch  as  this	necessarily means  that	 contravention	mustproduce an actual gap in the statute book in the sense	thatthe measure concerned, or some specific part thereof, simplydrops out of the authorized text.  As well as this  verticalseverability, if I may so describe it, I see no reason	why,if  the	 circumstances warrant such a course, the  terms  ofsection	 5(1) should not be sufficiently met by what  I	 maycall  a	 horizontal severance, a severance  that  is  which,without	 excising  any of the text, removes from  its  ambitsome  particular  subject-matter, activity  or	application.This, I think, would give effect to the words ' so far as itcontravenes'  without impinging on the meaning or weight  tobe attached to the word ' void '. "It  will  be  noted that this decision	also  deals  with  astatute which was in part unconstitutional.Coming to the authorities of this Court where this  questionhas  been  considered: In Behram Khurshed  Pesikaka  v.	 TheState of Bombay (2) the question arose with reference to theBombay	Prohibition  Act of 1949 which, subject	 to  certainexceptions  provided therein, prohibited the consumption  ofliquor.	 In The State of Bombay and another v. F. N. Balsara(3) this Court had held that this provision was obnoxious toArt. 19(1)(g) of the Constitution in so far as it related tomedicinal  and toilet preparations containing alcohol.	 Theappellant  was	prosecuted  for	 the  offence  of  consumingliquor,	 and  his  defence was that he	had  taken  medicinecontaining  alcohol.  The point in dispute was	whether	 theburden	was  upon the appellant to prove that he  had  takensuch  a medicine or for the prosecution to show that he	 hadnot.  This(1)  (1953) Northern Ireland Reports 79.(2) [1955] 1 S. C. R. 613, 654.	 (3) [1951] S. C. R. 682.1472Court  held  that the onus was on the prosecution,  and	 thesame not having been discharged, the appellant was  entitledto be acquitted.  In the course of the judgment, Mahajan  C.J.  made the following observations, which are relied on  bythe petitioners:"  The constitutional invalidity of a part of section  13(b)of  the Bombay Prohibition Act having been declared by	thisCourt,	that  part of the section ceased to have  any  legaleffect in judging cases of citizens arid had to be  regardedas null and void in determining whether a citizen was guiltyof an offence."It  must  be  observed that the question  of  the  constitu-tionality  of  the  Act did not arise  directly	 for  deter-mination  and was incidentally discussed as bearing  on	 theincidence   of	 burden	 of  proof.   And   further,   theseobservations  have  reference to the enforceability  of	 theprovisions  of	the Bombay Prohibition Act,  while  the	 barunder  Art. 19 continued to operate.  There was no  questionof the lifting of ban imposed by Art. 19, 'and the  questionas  to	the  effect of lifting of a ban did  not  arise	 fordecision.   In the context in which they occur, the words  "null  and  void " cannot be construed as implying  that	 theimpugned  law  must  be	 regarded as non est  so  as  to  beincapable  of taking effect, when the bar is removed.	Theymean  nothing  more than that the Act  is  unenforceable  byreason of the bar.In A. V. Fernandez v. State of Kerala (1) the question arosewith  reference to the Travancore-Cochin General  Sales	 TaxAct   and   the	 Rules	made  thereunder.   Prior   to	 theConstitution,  the assessees were liable to pay tax  on	 thetotal turnover of sales including those inside the State andthose  outside the State.  Where the sales were of  cocoanutoil,  there was a provision for deduction of the price	paidfor  the purchase of copra from the total  turnover.   Afterthe coming into force of the Constitution, a new section, s.26, corresponding to s. 22 of the Madras Act, was introducedincorporating  therein	the  provisions	 of  Art.  286,	 andconsequent  thereon, the sales which took place outside	 theState were excluded from the turnover.	On this,(1)  [1957] S. C. R. 837.1473a question arose as to the quantum of deduction to which theassessee  was entitled in respect of his purchase of  copra.He claimed that he was entitled to deduct the price paid forcopra  not only in respect of oil which was sold inside	 theState but also oil sold outside the State.  This  contentionwas rejected by the High Court, which limited the  deductionto  purchase  of  copra relating to the	 sales	inside'	 theState, and in affirming that decision, this Court observed :"  In our opinion, section 26 of the Act, in  cases  fallingwithin	the  categories specified under Article 286  of	 theConstitution  has  the effect of setting at  nought  and  ofobliterating  in regard thereto the provisions contained  inthe  Act  relating to the imposition of tax on the  sale  orpurchase  of  such goods and in	 particular  the  provisionscontained  in  the  charging  section  and  the	  provisionscontained  in  rule  20(2) and other  provisions  which	 areincidental  to the process of levying such tax.	 So  far  assales falling within the categories specified in Article 286of the Constitution and the corresponding section 26 of	 theAct  are concerned, they are, as it were, taken out  of	 thepurview	 of  the Act and no effect is to be given  to  thoseprovisions  which  would otherwise have been  applicable  ifsection 26 had not been added to the Act.  "On  the strength of the above observations, the	 petitionerscontend	 that the provisions relating to  inter-State  salesmust  be  treated as non-existent, and	that,  therefore,  afresh  enactment of the statute would be necessary to  bringthem into operation.  Here again, the point for decision wasonly  as  to  the effect of the ban under Art.	286  on	 thetransactions  which came within its purview.  That  ban	 hadnot then been lifted and the effect of the lifting of such aban  on the existing law did not fall to be considered.	  Weare  unable  to	 read  the observations	 relied	 on  by	 thepetitioners as implying that s. 22 of the Madras Act must betaken to have been blotted out of the statute book.A  case	 directly in point is Bhikaji  Narayan	Dhakras	 andothers	v.  The	 State of Madhya Pradesh  and  another	(1).There, the question arose with reference(1)  [1955] 2 S. C. R. 589.1474to  the C. P. & Berar Motor Vehicles (Amendment)  Act,	1947(Act  3 of 1948).  That Act had amended s. 43 of  the  MotorVehicles   Act,	 1939,	by  introducing	  provisions   whichauthorised the Provincial Government " to take up the entiremotor  transport  business  in the Province and	 run  it  incompetition  with  and	even  to  the  exclusion  of   motortransport operators ". These provisions, though valid at thetime when they were enacted, became void on the coming	intoforce  of  the	Constitution as	 infringing  the  rights  ofcitizens  to carry on business, protected by Art.  19(1)(g).The Constitution, however, was amended on June 18,1951,	 andArt. 19(6) was amended so as to authorise the State to carryon  business  " to the exclusion, complete  or	partial,  ofcitizens  or otherwise ". Subsequent to this amendment,	 theGovernment  issued  a  notification  under  s.	43  of	 theAmendment  Act	of  1948, and it was the  validity  of	thatnotification that was in issue.	 The contention was that  ass. 43 of the Act of 1948 had become void at the date of	 theConstitution, a notification issued by the Government  underthat section after the date of the amendment of the  Consti-tution was not valid, as it must be taken to have become nonest.   It  was held by this Court that s. 43 of the  Act  of1948  could  not  be held to have been effaced	out  of	 thestatute	  book,	  because  it  continued   to	operate	  ontransactions   prior  to  the  coming  into  force  of	 theConstitution, and that even after the Constitution, it wouldbe  operative as against non-citizens, that the	 consequenceof s. 43 being repugnant to Art. 19(1)(g) was that it  couldnot be enforced so long as the prohibition contained thereinwas  in force, but that when once that prohibition had	beenremoved as it was by the First Amendment, the provisions  ofthat  Act which had been dormant all the time became  activeand enforceable.The result of the authorities may thus be summed up:   Wherean enactment is unconstitutional in part but valid as to therest, assuming of course that the two	portions	 areseverable,  it cannot be held to have been wiped out of	 thestatute	 book  as it admittedly must remain  there  for	 thepurpose of enforcement of1475the  valid portion thereof, and being on the  statute  book,even that portion which is unenforceable on the ground	thatit is unconstitutional will operate proprio vigore when	 theConstitutional	bar is removed, and there is no need  for  afresh legislation to give effect thereto.  On this view, thecontention   of	 the  petitioners  with	 reference  to	 theExplanation  in	 s. 22 of the Madras Act  must	fail.	ThatExplanation  operates, as already stated, on two classes  oftransactions.	It  renders taxation of sales in  which	 theproperty  in the goods passes in Madras but  delivery  takesplace  outside	Madras illegal on the ground that  they	 areoutside	 sales	falling	 within Art. 286(1)  (a).   It	alsoauthorises  the imposition of tax on the sales in which	 theproperty  in the goods passes outside Madras but  goods	 aredelivered for consumption within Madras.  It is valid in  sofar as it prohibits tax on outside sales, but invalid in  sofar  as sales in which goods are delivered inside the  Stateare  concerned, because such sales are bit by  Art.  286(2).The fact that it is invalid as to a part has not the  effectof  obliterating it out of the statute book, because  it  isvalid as to a part and has to remain in the statute book forbeing enforced as to that part.	 The result of the enactmentof  the impugned Act is to lift the ban under  Art.  286(2),and  the  consequence  of it is that  that  portion  of	 theExplanation  which relates to sales in which  property	pawsoutside Madras but the goods are delivered inside Madras andwhich	was   unenforceable   before,	became	 valid	 andenforceable.   In this view, we do not feel called  upon  toexpress	 any  opinion  as  to  whether	it  would  make	 anydifference  in	the  result if the  impugned  provision	 wasunconstitutional in its entirety.There is one other aspect of the question to which referencemust be made.  The decisions in Behram Khurshed Pesikaka  v.The  State  of	Bombay (1) and Bhikaji	Narain	Dhakras	 andothers	v. The State of Madhya Pradesh and another (2)	bothturn  on  the construction of Art. 13 of  the  Constitution,which enacts that laws shall be void to the extent they are(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 613. 187(2) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 589,1871476repugnant  to the provisions of Part III.  We are  concernedin  these  petitions  not with infringement of	any  of	 theprovisions of Part III but of Art. 286(2), and the point forour decision is as to the effect of the infringement of thatprovision.   Art. 286(2) does not provide that a  law  whichcontravenes  it	 is  void, and when regard  is	had  to	 thecontext	 of  that  provision, it is difficult  to  draw	 theinference  that that is the consequence of contravention  ofthat provision.	 Art. 372(1) provides for the continuance inforce of all laws existing at the date of the  Constitution.The proviso to Art. 286(2) enacts that the President may  byan order continue the operation of the Sales Tax Laws up  toMarch 31, 1951, and Art. 286(2) itself enacts that no law ofa  State shall impose a tax.  In the context in	 which	theyoccur,	the true meaning to be given to these words  is,  asalready observed, that no law of a State shall be  effectiveto impose a tax; that is to say, the law cannot be  enforcedin so far as it imposes such a tax.  Whether we consider thequestion  on  broad  principles	 as to	the  effect  of	 un-constitutionality  of a statute or on the language  of	Art.286(2),	 the  conclusion is inescapable that s.	 22  of	 theMadras	Act  and the corresponding provisions in  the  otherstatutes  cannot be held to be null and void and non est  byreason of their being, repugnant to Art. 286(2) and the	 barunder  that  Article having been now removed,  there  is  nolegal impediment to effect being given to them.(V)  We	 shall now deal with the contention of	the  learnedcounsel	 for  the Madura Mills Ltd., who struck a  new	pathcutting	 across the lines on which the petitioners  and	 theother interveners proceeded.  He contended that the decisivefactor in the determination of the question was Entry 42  inList  I	 of  the Seventh Schedule,  "Inter-State  trade	 andcommerce",  that  under	 that  Entry,  Parliament  had	 theexclusive  power  to enact laws in  respect  of	 inter-Statetrade  and commerce and that included power to impose a	 taxon  inter-State	 sales,	 that the States  had  therefore  nocompetence  under the Constitution to enact a  law  imposingtax on such sales, that the laws passed1477by  the	 States after the Constitution imposing such  a	 taxwere ultra vires and void, that the impugned Act  purportingto  give  effect to such laws was likewise ultra  vires	 andinoperative,  and  that,  in  consequence,  the	 proceedingssought	to  be taken under s. 22 of the Madras Act  and	 thecorresponding provisions in the sister Acts of other  Stateswere  unauthorised and illegal.	 The argument in support  ofthis contention was as follows: Entry 42 in List I is  basedon the Commerce Clause of the American Constitution, Art. 1,s.  8  that  " The Congress shall  have	 power	to  regulatecommerce  among	 the  several States ", and  that  has	beeninterpreted  by	 the Supreme Court of the United  States  asmeaning	 that  the  States  have no power  to  enact  a	 lawimposing a tax on the carrying on of inter-State trade (VideRobins v. Taxing District of Shelby County (1), or  imposingtax on inter-State sales (Vide McLeod v. Dilworth Co.  (2)).The  contents  of  Entry 42 are the same  as  those  of	 theCommerce  Clause, and it must therefore be construed  as  ofthe  same  effect.  It is also a  well-established  rule  ofconstruction that the Entries in the Legislative Lists	mustbe  interpreted	 liberally and in a wide  sense.   The	trueinterpretation	therefore  to be put upon Entry 42  is	thatParliament  has, and therefore, in view of the	non-obstanteclause in Art. 246(1) and of the words "subject to" in	Art.246(3),	 the  States have not, the power to  impose  tax  oninter-State  sales.  Article 301 which provides	 that  tradeand commerce in the territory of India shall be free is alsointended to achieve the same result.  It reproduces s. 92 ofthe  Commonwealth  of Australia Constitution  Act,  and	 theauthorities  on that section have held that imposition of  atax  on	 inter-State  trade  would  be	obnoxious  to	thatprovision.   That the freedom in Art. 301  includes  freedomfrom  taxation is also implicit in Art. 304 (a) in which  anexception  to Art. 301 is made in respect of the  impositionof tax on goods imported from other States.  The result	 is,it is argued, that after the Constitution no law of a  Statecan impose a tax on(1)  (1887) 120 U.S. 489; 30 L. Ed. 694.(2)  (1044) 322 U.S. 327 ; 88 L. Ed. 1304.1478inter-State  sales, and in consequence, s. 22 of the  MadrasAct, which came into force after the Constitution, would, ifit is construed as imposing a tax, be bad, and the  impugnedAct  which  proceeds on the view that the  States  have	 thepower to enact laws imposing a tax on inter-State sales	 andseeks to give effect to them would also be  unconstitutionaland void.This  contention  suffers,  in	our  opinion,  from  seriousinfirmities.   It  overlooks that our Constitution  was	 notwritten	 on a tabula rasa, that a Federal  Constitution	 hadbeen  established under the Government of India	 Act,  1935,and though that has undergone considerable change by way  ofrepeal,	 modification  and addition, it	 still	remains	 theframework  on which the present Constitution is	 built,	 andthat the provisions of the Constitution must accordingly  beread  in  the light of the provisions of the  Government  ofIndia  Act.  It fails to give due weight to the	 setting  ofthe   relevant	provisions  of	the  Constitution  and	 theinterpretation	which  is  to  be put  upon  them  in  theircontext.  In the Government of India Act, 1935, there was noEntry  corresponding to Entry 42 in List I of the  Constitu-tion.  But there was in List II, Entry 48 which	 correspondsto Entry 54 in the Constitution.  It is not in dispute	thatunder Entry 48 the States had power to pass a law imposing atax on inter-State sales, because the terms of the Entry arewide  and  would include inter-State as well  as  intrastatesales.	 It was on this view that the Provinces had  enactedlaws imposing tax on inter-State sales.	 Then the  Constitu-tion  came into force, and it included for the first time  anew Entry 42 in List 1. It also reproduced Entry 48 in Entry54  in	List  II in terms,  for	 our  -purposes,  identical.Having	regard	to  the connotation of	that  Entry  in	 theGovernment of India Act, 1935, one would have expected	thatif  it	was  intended by the  Constitution-makers  that	 theStates	should	be deprived of the power to  tax  interstatesales  which  they had under Entry 48 in the  Government  ofIndia  Act,  that would have been made clear  in  the  Entryitself.	  It is material to note that while Entry 48 in	 theGovernment1479of  India  Act	was  "Taxes on the  sale  of  goods  and  onadvertisement ", Entry 54 in List II of the Constitution  asoriginally  enacted was " Taxes on the' sale or purchase  ofgoods  other than newspapers".	Thus, the  Constitution	 didlimit the scope of Entry 48 by excluding from it newspapers,and  if	 it was its intention to exclude  inter-State  salesfrom its purview, nothing would have been easier for it thanto  have  said	so, instead of leaving	that  result  to  beinferred  on  a construction of Entry 42 in List  I  in	 thelight  of the American authorities on the  Commerce  Clause.This Is strong indication that Entry 42 is not to be read asincluding  tax	on inter-State sales.	This  conclusion  isfurther	 strengthened, when regard is had to the  scheme  ofthe  Lists  in	the  Seventh  Schedule	and  the   principleunderlying the enumeration of heads of legislation therein.In List 1, Entries I to 81 mention the several matters	overwhich Parliament has authority to legislate.  Entries 82  to92  enumerate the taxes which could be imposed by a  law  ofParliament.   An examination of these two groups of  Entriesshows that while the main subject of legislation figures  inthe  first  group, a tax in relation thereto  is  separatelymentioned  in  the second.  Thus, Entry 22 in List  I  is  "Railways  ",  and Entry 89 is " Terminal taxes on  goods  orpassengers, carried by railway, sea or air; taxes on railwayfares  and  freights ". If Entry 22 is to  be  construed  asinvolving  taxes  to  be imposed, then	Entry  89  would  besuperfluous.   Entry  41 mentions "Trade and  commerce	withforeign	  countries;  import  and  export   across   customsfrontiers  ". If these expressions are to be interpreted  asincluding  duties to be levied in respect of that trade	 andcommerce,  then	 Entry	83  which is  "	 Duties	 of  customsincluding  export  duties  "  would  be	 wholly	  redundant.Entries	 43 and 44 relate to incorporation,  regulation	 andwinding	 up of corporations.  Entry 85	provides  separatelyfor  Corporation tax.  Turning to List II, Entries I  to  44form  one group mentioning the subjects on which the  Statescould legislate.  Entries 45 to 63 in that List form anothergroup, and they deal with1480taxes.	Entry 18, for example, is " Land " and Entry 45 is "Land  revenue  ". Entry 23 is " Regulation of  mines  "	 andEntry 50 is " Taxes on mineral rights ". The above analysis-and  it is not exhaustive of the Entries in the	 Lists-leadsto  the	 inference  that  taxation is  not  intended  to  becomprised  in  the  main subject in which  it  might  on  anextended  construction	be  regarded  as  included,  but  istreated	 as  a distinct matter for purposes  of	 legislativecompetence.   And this distinction is also manifest  in	 thelanguage  of Art. 248, Cls. (1) and (2), and of Entry 97  inList  I	 of the Constitution.  Construing Entry	 42  in	 thelight  of  the above scheme, it is difficult to	 resist	 theconclusion  that  the power of Parliament  to  legislate  oninter-State  trade  and	 commerce under Entry  42  does	 notinclude	 a power to impose a tax on sales in the  course  ofsuch trade and commerce.Article	 286  has a direct bearing on the  point  now  underdiscussion.  It imposes various restrictions on the power ofthe State to enact laws imposing taxes on sale of goods	 andone  of those restrictions has reference to taxes on  inter-State  sales,  vide  Art. 286(2).  It is  implicit  in	thisprovision  that it is the States that have got the power  toimpose a tax on such sales, as there can be no question of arestriction on what does not exist.  That is how Art. 286(2)has  been construed by this Court both in The United  Motorscase  (1) and in The Bengal Immunity Company case  (2).	  Itwas observed therein that under Entry 54, as under Entry  48of  the	 Government  of India Act, the power  to  tax  salesrested	with  the States, and that Art. 286(2)	was  enactedwith the object of avoiding multiple taxation of inter-Statesales  in  exercise of the power conferred  by	that  Entry.This  again strongly supports the conclusion that  Entry  54must  be  interpreted as including the power to	 tax  inter-State sales and Entry 42 as excluding it.In  order  to  get over this  hurdle,  learned	counsel	 putforward	 the contention that Art. 286(2) had reference	onlyto  laws  which	 were  in existence at	the  time  when	 theConstitution came into force, and that the(1) [1953] S.C.R. 1069.(2) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.1481power  given to Parliament was one to continue	those  laws.Reference  was	made  to the proviso to	 Art.  286(2)  whichauthorised the President to direct that the taxes which werebeing  levied  by the State before the commencement  of	 theConstitution might be continued to be levied until March 31,1951,  and it was said that the power conferred	 under	Art.286(2) was of the same character, and that it merely enabledParliament to continue pre-Constitution laws.Now, it cannot be disputed that the language of Art.  286(2)would,	in terms, comprehend future  legislation.   Languagesimilar to the one used in Art. 286 (2) is also to be  foundin Art. 287, and there, it clearly has reference to laws  tobe enacted after the Constitution.  Indeed, it was  concededthat on the wording of Art. 286(2) both existing and  futurelegislation  would be included.	 But it was  contended	thatits operation should be limited to existing laws, because asEntry  42 in List I includes tax on inter-State	 sales,	 anylaw  of	 the State subsequent to the  Constitution  imposingsuch a tax would be incompetent.  This, however, is  petitioprincipii.  The point for decision is whether tax on  inter-State  sales is included within Entry 42.  The inference  tobe  drawn from the plain language of Art. 286(2) is that  itis  not.   It  is no answer to this to	say  that  Entry  42includes it, and that, therefore, the meaning of Art. 286(2)should be cut down.  We cannot accede to such a contention.To  sum	 up: (1) Entry 54 is successor to Entry	 48  in	 theGovernment  of	India  Act, and it would  be  legitimate  toconstrue  it  as including tax on interState  sales,  unlessthere  is anything repugnant to it in the Constitution,	 andthere  is none such. (2) Under the scheme of the Entries  inthe Lists, taxation is regarded as a distinct matter and  isseparately set out. (3) Article 286(2) proceeds on the basisthat  it  is the States that have the power  to	 enact	lawsimposing tax on inter-State Sales. it is a fair inference todraw  from these considerations that under Entry 54 in	List11  the States are competent to enact laws imposing  tax  oninter-State sales.We must now consider the arguments that have1482been put forward as supporting the opposite conclusion.	  Itis  firstly  contended that the Entries in  the	 LegislativeLists  must  be construed broadly and not narrowly or  in  apedantic   manner,  and	 that,	in  accordance	 with	thisprinciple,  Entry  42 should be construed,  there  being  nolimitation  contained therein, as inclusive of the power  totax  sales in inter-State trade and commerce.  The  rule  ofconstruction relied on is no doubt well-established; but thequestion  is  as  to the application of	 that  rule  in	 thepresent case.  The question here is not simpliciter  whethera  particular piece of legislation falls within an Entry  ornot.  The point in dispute before us is whether between	 twoEntries	  assigned   to	 two  different	  Legislatures	 theparticular subject of legislation falls within the ambit  ofthe  one  or  the other.  If Entry 42 in List  I  is  to  beconstrued liberally, so must Entry 54 in List II be, and thepoint is not settled by reference to Art. 246, Cls. (1)	 and(3) and to the principle laid down in Union Colliery Companyof  British  Columbia v. Bryden (1) that where	there  is  aconflict of jurisdiction between a Central and a  ProvincialLegislature, it is the law of the Centre that must  prevail.Art. 246, Cls. (1) and (3) have to be invoked only if  thereis  a  conflict as to the scope of two Entries	in  the	 twoLists  and  not otherwise.  What has therefore first  to  bedecided is whether there is any conflict between Entry 42 inList  I	 and  Entry 54 in List 11.  If	there  is  not,	 theapplication of the non-obstante clause in Art. 246(1) or  ofthe words " subject to " in Art. 246(3) does not arise.There is another rule of construction also wellsettled	thatthe  Entries in two Legislative Lists must be  construed  ifpossible  so as to avoid a conflict.  In Province of  Madrasv.  Boddu  Paidanna  and Sons (2) the  question	 was  as  towhether	 the  first sales by a manufacturer  of	 goods	wereliable	to be taxed by the Province under Entry 48  in	ListII,  or	 whether  it was really a tax on  excise  which	 waswithin the exclusive competence of the Centre under Entry 45in List 1. It was held by the Federal Court that the(1) [1899] A. C. 580.(2) [1942] F.C.R. 90.1483correct	 approach to the question was to see whether it	 waspossible to effect a reconciliation between the two  Entriesso  as	to avoid a conflict and overlapping,' and  that,  inthat  view,  though excise duty might in  a  extended  sensecover the first sales by the manufacturer, in the context ofentry 48 in List II it should be held not to include it, andthat  therefore the Province had the right to tax the  firstsales.	 This  view  was approved by the  Privy	 Council  inGovernorGeneral in Council v. Province of Madras (1).  If itis possible therefore to construe Entry 42 as not  includingtax on interstate sales, then on the principle enunciated inProvince  of  Madras  v. Boddu Paidanna	 and  Sons  (2)	 andGovernor-General  in  Council v. Province of Madras  (1)  weshould so construe it, as that will avoid a conflict betweenthe two Entries.It  was also argued in support of the contention that  Entry42 in List I must be held to include the power to tax,	thatthat was the interpretation put by the American	 authoritieson  the Commerce Clause, and that there was no reason why  adifferent construction ,should be put on Entry 42 in list  Iof  our	 Constitution.	It is true  that  our  Constitution-makers	 bad  before  them  the	 Commerce  Clause  and	 theauthorities  thereon,  but it is a mistake to  suppose	thatthey intended to bodily transplant that clause in Entry	 42.We  had in the Government of India Act, 1935, a	 fullfledgedFederal Constitution in force in this Country, and what	 theConstitution-makers  did  was  to draw	from  other  FederalConstitutions of the world, adapt and modify the  provisionsso   as	 to  sent  our	conditions  and	 fit  them  in	 ourConstitution.  In this new context, those provisions do	 notnecessarily mean what they meant in their old setting.	 Thethreads	 were no doubt taken from other	 Constitutions,	 butwhen  they were woven into the fabric of  our  Constitution,their	reach  and  their  complexion	underwent   changes.Therefore, valuable as the American decisions are as showinghow the question is dealt with in a sister(1)  (1945) L.R. 72 I.A. 91.(2)  [1942] F.C.R. 90.1881484Federal Constitution, great care should be taken in applyingthem  in the interpretation of our Constitution.  We  shouldnot  forget  that  it is our Constitution  that	 we  are  tointerpret,  and	 that  interpretation  must  depend  on	 thecontext and setting of the particular provision which has tobe interpreted.	 Applying these principles and having regardto the features already set out, we must hold that Entry  42in  List I is not to be interpreted as	including  taxation.The  same remarks apply to the argument based upon s. 92  ofthe Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act and Art.	 301of 'our Constitution.  We should also add that Art. 304	 (a)of  the Constitution cannot be interpreted as  throwing	 anylight  on.  the	 scope of Art. 301  with  reference  to	 thequestion of taxation, as it merely reproduces s. 297 (1) (b)of  the	 Government  of --India Act, and  as  there  was  noprovision  therein corresponding to Art. 301, s. 297  (1)(b)could  not  have implied what is now sought to	be  inferredfrom Art. 304 (a).In the result, we are of opinion that if the States had	 thepower  under Entry 54 to impose a tax on inter- State  salessubject	 only  to the restriction enacted in Art.  286	(2),then  by  virtue of the impugned Act such  law	is  renderedoperative  and proceedings taken thereunder are	 valid.	  Wehave  reached  this  conclusion on  a  construction  of	 thestatutory   provisions	bearing	 on  the  question   withoutreference to the Sixth Amendment of the Constitution  which,proceeding on the view that the States had the power to	 taxinterState  sales under Entry 54, has amended the  Constitu-tion, and has vested the power to tax interstate salesin the Centre.(VI) Another contention urged by the petitioners is that thelevy  of tax proposed to be made by the Andhra State on	 thesale  of yarn by them to dealers in the State of  Andhra  isillegal,  because  under the Madras Act and the	 Rules	madethereunder, where there are successive sales of yarn the taxcan  be imposed at only one point, and as the Government  ofMadras	had  already imposed a tax on the sale	within	thatState, a second levy on the self-same goods by the State  ofAndhra is unauthorised. and that therefore1485the  threatened proceedings for assessment are	incompetent.This  contention is clearly untenable.	When the Madras	 Actprovides  for a single levy on successive sales of yarn,  itcan  have only application to sales in the State of  Madras,as  it would be incompetent to the Legislature of Madras  toenact  a law to operate in another State.  But it is  arguedthat  s.  53  of the Andhra State Act,	1953,  on  its	trueinterpretation	enacts	that though for	 political  purposesAndhra	is  to	be regarded as a  separate  State,  for	 theenforcement of laws as they stood on that date it should  bedeemed to be a part of the State of Madras.  We do not agreewith  this  interpretation.  In our opinion,  s.  53  merelyprovides that the laws in existence in the territories whichwere  constituted into the State of Andhra  should  continueto,  operate  as before.  In fact, by  an  Adaptation  Orderissued	on  November 12, 1953, even the name of	 Andhra	 wassubstituted for Madrts in the Madras General Sales Tax	Act.There is no substance in this contention.(VII)	  Lastly,   it	 is  argued   that   the   EssentialCommodities  Act  enacted by Parliament in exercise  of	 thepower conferred by Art. 286 (3) has declared that yarn is anessential  commodity,  and that if the Madras Act is  to  beconstrued  as  a  fresh enactment for the  Andhra  State  byreason	of  ss. 53 and 54 of the Andhra State  Act  and	 theAdaptation  Order dated November 12, 1953, then it would  bebad  inasmuch as the procedure prescribed in that  provisionhad not been followed.	The basis of this contention is thatthe  Madras Act as applied to the Andhra State is a now	 Actfor purposes of Art. 286 (3), but that is not so. The MadrasAct  was in force in the territories which now form part  ofthe Andhra State until October 1, 1953, and thereafter	thatAct  continues to be in operation by force of s. 53  of	 theAndhra State Act.  Moreover, the Madras Act become operativein  the new State of Andhra not under any law passed by	 theLegislature of the State of Andhra but under s. 53 of a	 lawenacted	 by  Parliament and therefore Art. 286	(3)  has  noapplication.   We should add that the Essential	 CommoditiesAct (LII of 1952) has itself1486been   repealed	 and  is  no  longer  in  operation.	Thiscontention of the petitioners also should be rejected.The  petitioners sought to raise certain  other	 contentionssuch as that they are not "dealers" in the Andhra State, andthat  the  Explanation to s. 22 had no	application  to	 thesales sought to be taxed, as the goods were delivered not inthe State of Andhra but in Madras.  But these are  questionswhich  ought  properly	to be raised  before  the  assessingauthorities, and cannot be gone into in these proceedings.In  the	 result, the petitions fail and are  rejected.	 Thepetitions  have	 had  a	 chequered  career,  their  forturesfluctuating  with changes in the interpretation of  the	 lawand in the law itself.	In the circumstances, we direct	 theparties to bear their own costs.SARKAR	J.-The	petitioners who are dealers in	cotton	yarncarrying on business in the city of Madras had sold goods tovarious	 persons  in the State of Andhra.  This	 State,	 therespondent in these petitions, demanded taxes on these salesunder  the provisions of the Sales Tax Act applying  to	 itsterritories.   The  petitioners challenged  the	 respondentsright to tax the, sales, and filed these petitions for writsof  prohibition	 or  other suitable  writs  restraining	 therespondent  from  levying and collecting the tax.   The	 Actmentioned various kinds of sales which could be taxed  underit. The procedures followed by the petitioners in  effectingthe  sales were diverse and have not yet  been	ascertained,and it is not possible without such ascertainment to  decidewhether they are or are not taxable under the provisions  ofthe  Act  read	with other relevant  laws.   To	 avoid	thisdifficulty  it has been agreed between the parties that	 theonly  question	that will be decided on these  petitions  iswhether	 the respondent can tax a sale under which the	pro-perty  in the goods sold passed outside the State of  Andhrabut  the goods were delivered in that State for	 consumptionthere.	 Before	 proceeding to discuss this question  it  isnecessary to refer to certain antecedentevents.On January 26, 1950, the Constitution of India was1487promulgated.   It continued the laws previously in force  inthe territories of India subject to its provisions.  Article372(2) of the Constitution provides that,"For  the purpose of bringing the provisions of any  law  inforce  in  the	territory  of India  into  accord  with	 theprovisions of this Constitution, the President may by  ordermake such adaptations and modifications of such law, whetherby  way	 of  repeal or amendment, as  may  be  necessary  orexpedient."Article	 286  of the Constitution as it stood prior  to	 itsamendment  in 1956, that being what this case  is  concernedwith, contained the following provisions :" Art. 286. (1) No law of a State shall impose, or authorisethe  imposition of, a tax on the sale or purchase  of  goodswhere such sale or purchase takes place-(a)  outside the State ; or(b)  in	 the  course  of the import of the  goods  into,  orexport of the goods out of, the territory of India,.Explanation.-For  the purposes of sub-clause (a), a sale  orpurchase shall be deemed to have taken place in the State inwhich  the  goods have actually been delivered as  a  directresult of such sale or purchase for the purpose of  consump-tion in that State, notwithstanding the fact that  under thegeneral	 law relating to sale of goods the property  in	 thegoods  has  by	reason of such sale or	purchase  passed  inanother State.(2)  Except  in	 so far as Parliament my  by  law  otherwiseprovide,  no law of a State shall impose, or  authorise	 theimposition  of, a tax on the sale or purchase of  any  goodswhere  such  sale or purchase talks place in the  course  ofinter-State trade or commerce : "In  the year 1939 the legislature of Madras had enacted	 theMadras General Sales Tax Act and this was continued in forceby  the	 Constitution after its promulgation.  In  order  tobring its provisions into accord with the Constitution,	 thePresident under his power mentioned earlier, passed on	July2,  1952,  the Adaptation of  Laws(Fourth  Amendment)  Orderwhich1488added  a  new section to the Madras Act, being s.  22.	 Theterms of this section are important in this case and will beset out later.The effect of the Explanation in Art. 286(1)(a) came up	 forconsideration  by  this Court in the case of  The  State  ofBombay	v. The United Motors (India) Ltd. (1).	 This  Courtheld by its judgment pronounced by a majority, on March	 30,1953, that a State 'could tax a sale under which goods	weredelivered  within  its	territories  for  consumption  therethough	 the  property	in  the	 goods	passed	beyond	 itsterritories and a provision in a State statute purporting tolevy such a tax did not contravene Art. 286.Andhra	is a new State which came into existence on  October1,  1953.   It was created by the Andhra  State	 Act,  1953,largely out of territories previously belonging to the Stateof  Madras.  Later, the new State came to be  designated  asthe  State of Andhra Pradesh but I will refer to it  as	 theState of Andhra or simply Andhra.  Section 53 of the  AndhraState Act provided that the laws in force prior to the	Con-stitution of the State of Andhra in the territories includedin  it,	 were thereafter to continue in	 force	there.	 TheMadras General Sales Tax Act therefor(, became applicable tothe State of Andhra and it became go applicable with the news. 22 previously added to it.  Subsequently, the Madras	 Actas  applying in the State of Andhra was, to suit the  latterState, adapted by substituting for the name Madras the	nameAndhra	wherever it occurred in that Act.  I will  hereaftercall this Act the Sales Tax Act.Sometime  in  the  year 1954 the respondent,  the  State  ofAndhra,	 issued notices to the petitioners  demanding  taxesunder  its  Sales  Tax Act.  As I have	earlier	 stated	 thepetitioners  challenged the right of the respondent to	levythe  tax  and  certain	correspondence	followed.   As	 therespondent  insisted on collecting the tax, the	 petitionersinstituted  the	 present proceeding,-, in July	and  August,1955.While  these proceedings were pending, the question  of	 theeffect of Art. 286 again came up for consideration(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 1069.1489by  this  Court in the case of the Bengal  Immunity  CompanyLtd.  v. The State of Bihar(1).	 This Court by its  judgmentpronounced, again by a majority, on September 6, 1955,	heldthat until Parliament by law made in the exercise of  powersvested in it under Art. 286(2) otherwise provided, no  Statecould  impose  any tax on a sale or purchase of	 goods	whensuch  sale  or purchase took place in the course  of  inter-State  trade  or commerce and the majority decision  in	 theState of Bombay v. The United Motors (India) Ltd. (2) in  sofar  as	 it decided to the contrary could  not	be  acceptedandfurther  that  the explanation in Art.  286(1)(a)did	 notconfer	any  right  on the State in  which  the	 goods	weredelivered  under a sale, to tax it notwithstanding that	 theproperty in the goods passed in another State.In view of this decision the respondent was advised that  itcould  not oppose the petitions and on October 21, 1955,  itactually  filed statements in these  proceedings  submittingthat  the  petitions might be allowed.	Before	however	 thepetitions  could  be  heard and disposed  of,  an  Ordinancecalled	the Sales Tax Laws Validation Ordinance,  1956,	 waspromulgated  by	 the President on January  30,	1956.	ThisOrdinance  was	later, on March 21, 1956,  replaced  by	 theSales Tax Laws Validation Act, 1956.  Both these  enactmentswere  in  identical terms.  The operative provision  of	 theValidation Act is set out below.2.   " Notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of	 anycourt  no  law	of  a State  imposing,	or  authorising	 theimposition  of, a tax on the sale or purchase of  any  goodswhere  such  sale or purchase took place in  the  course  ofinter-State trade or commerce during the period between	 the1st day of April, 1951, and the 6th day of September,  1955,shall  be deemed to be invalid or ever to have been  invalidmerely by reason of the fact that such sale or purchase tookplace  in the course of interstate trade or commerce  ;	 andall  such  taxes levied or collected or purporting  to	havebeen levied or collected during the(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.(2)  [1953] S.C.R. 1069.1490aforesaid period shall be deemed always to have been validlylevied or collected in accordance with law.  "The  respondent	 was  advised that the	Validation  Act	 hadchanged the situation and in view of it the petitions  couldno  longer succeed.  Thereupon, the respondent	on  February19,  1957,  filed  fresh  statements  submitting  that	 thepetitions should be dismissed.	The petitions have now	comeup for hearing in these circumstances.The   validity	of  the	 Validation  Act  itself  has	beenchallenged.  But I do not think it necessary to decide	thatquestion.   I will assume that that Act is perfectly  valid.It  does not however itself levy any tax.  Its only  effect,so far as these cases are concerned, is to permit the  SalesTax  Act  to operate to tax sales which took  place  in	 thecourse	of trade between Andhra and any other State  betweencertain dates.I will not refer to these dates hereafter forwhat Ihave to  say   applies to sales between them only.As has been    agreed  between the parties, as mentioned  atthe commencement of this judgment, the only question that wehave to decide is whether a sale under which the goods	weredelivered in Andhra for consumption there though property inthem passed in Madras, can be taxed by the respondent.	Sucha  sale	 would	no doubt be a sale in the  course  of  tradebetween	 Andhra	 and Madras.  It is said that  such  a	salecannot	be  taxed  by  the  respondent	notwithstanding	 theValidation Act, because the Sales Tax Act does not-  purportto tax	it.Does  the  Sales Tax Act then contain any  provision  taxingsuch  a sale ? Now the Act authorises the levy of a  tax  onsales as defined in it.	 A sale is defined in s. 2(h) of theAct.   It is not disputed however that that definition	doesnot include a sale under which goods are delivered in Andhrafor consumption there but property in them passes in  Madrasand  no	 further  reference to	that  section  is  thereforenecessary.   It	 is  however said that	the  effect  of	 theExplanation in s.   22 is to make such a sale, a sale withinthe meaning of the  Act	 and therefore liable  to  be  taxedunder it. So   I  proceed to examine that section.   Section22 as it  stood at the relevant time reads thus:1491S.22.  "Nothing contained in this Act shall be deemed  toimpose, or authorise the imposition of, a tax on the sale orpurchase  of any goods, where such' sale or  purchase  takesplace(a)  (i) outside the State of Andhra, or(ii) in	 the  course  of the import of the  goods  into	 theterritory of India or of the export of the goods out of suchterritory, or(b)  except  in	 so far as Parliament may by  law  otherwiseprovide,  after the 31st day of March 1951 in the course  ofinter-State  trade or commerce, and the provisions  of	thisAct shall be read and construed accordingly.Explanation.-For  the purposes of clause (a)(i), a  sale  orpurchase shall be deemed to have taken place in the State inwhich  the  goods have actually been delivered as  a  directresult	of  such  sale	or  purchase  for  the	purpose	  ofconsumption  in	 that State, notwithstanding the  fact	thatunder  the  general  law  relating to  sale  of	 goods,	 theproperty in the goods has by reason of such sale or purchasepassed in another State.  "Does  the  Explanation in this section then  say  that	whenunder  a sale goods are delivered in Andhra, the sale  shallbe  deemed to have taken place there though the property  inthe  goods  may have passed in another State,  for  example,Madras ? It no doubt says, without specifying any particularState,	that a sale shall be deemed to have taken  place  inthe State in which the goods were delivered under it  thoughthe  property in them has passed in another State.   But  itseems to me impossible from the language used to say that itcontemplated  a	 case in which the goods were  delivered  inAndhra though property in them passed in another State.	 Forthe sake of clarity I have left out in what I have just saidthe  term as to consumption in the State in which the  goodswere delivered and no question as to such consumption is  indispute in these cases.The  Explanation opens with the words " For the purposes  ofclause (a) (i) ". What then is that clause ?1891492It  only contains the words "outside the State of  -Andhra".It  completes  the sentence part of which has  preceded	 it.The complete sentence says,Nothing in this Act shall be deemed to impose, or  authorisethe  imposition	 of, a tax on the sale or  purchase  of	 anygood,,;, where such sale or purchase takes place(a) (i) outside the State of Andhra.It then savs that no tax shall be levied under the Act on  asale  which  takes place outside Andhra.  It is	 after	thisthat  the Explanation comes and starts with the words "	 forthe purposes of clause (a) (i)".  These words must thereforemean,  for  the purpose of explaining which sale  is  to  beregarded   as  having  taken  place  outside  Andhra.	 TheExplanation  then is for this purpose.	I will now  turn  tothe   remaining	  and  the  substantive	  portion   of	 theExplanation.   That  must  explain  when a  sale  is  to  beregarded   as  having  taken  place  outside  Andhra.	 Thesubstantive  portion of the Explanation however	 mentions  asale  which  is to be deemed to have taken  place  inside  aState.	 Keeping  its purpose in mind, it must be  taken  bysaying	that a certain sale is to be deemed inside a  State,to  say that it is outside the State of Andhra.	 It  followsthat  the  Explanation does not contemplate that  the  Stateinside which a sale is to be deemed to have taken place, canbe  the State of Andhra.  That State cannot be the State  ofAndhra, for then the Explanation would not show when a	saleis  to	be  deemed  to be outside Andhra  and  that  by	 itslanguage  is  the  only purpose for  which  it	is  enacted.Therefore the Explanation can only be read as  contemplatinga  State other than Andhra as the State inside which a	saleshall be deemed to have taken place.  This is the inevitableresult	produced  by the opening words	of  the	 Explanationunderstood  according  to  their  plain	 meaning.   So	 theExplanation,  omitting	portions  of  it  for  the  sake  ofclarity, can only be read in the manner shown below:For  the purposes of clause (a)(i) a sale or purchase  shallbe  deemed  to have taken place in the State being  a  Stateother than Andhra, in which the goods have1493been actually delivered notwithstanding that the property inthe goods has passed in the State of Andhra.I  therefore find it impossible to say that the	 Explanationstates	that  a	 sale shall be deemed to  have	taken  placeinside	Andhra	if under it the goods  have  been  deliveredthere  though the property in them passed in another  State.The  Explanation does not hence, in my view,  authorise	 thetaxation of a sale under which goods are delivered in Andhrathough property in them passed in Madras.The view that I have taken of the purpose of the Explanationin s. 22 was taken of the purpose of the Explanation in Art.286(1)(a)  in the Bengal Immunity Company case (1).  It	 wassaid  at p. 646 of the report, " Here the avowed purpose  ofthe Explanation is to explain what an outside sale  referredto in sub-clause (a) is ". The language of the	Explanationsand  the  setting of each in its  respective  provision	 areidentical.   That  language  must therefore  have  the	samemeaning.   It is said that the consideration that  prevailedwith  the Court in the Bengal Immunity Company case  (1)  indealing with Art. 286 cannot apply in dealing with s. 22 forthe  latter  is a provision in a taxing	 statute  which	 theformer is not.	But I do not see that this comment, even  ifjustified,  would lead to a different meaning being  put  onwords  used  when they occur in a taxing statute  from	thatwhen they occur in a statute which does not purport to	levya  tax.	 As a matter of language only, words must  have	 thesame meaning.  The words "for the purpose of clause  (a)(i)"must therefore have tile same meaning in the Explanation  inArt.  286(1)(a) as in the Explanation in s. 22. 1 am  unableto  distinguish	 the present case from the  Bengal  ImmunityCompany case (1) for the purpose of determining the meaningof the words used.It  is	then  said that the Explanation in  i.	22  has	 twofacets; that when it talks of a sale inside one State, it atthe same time necessarily talks of a sale outside all  otherStates.	 Therefore it is said that when under a(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.1494sale  goods  are delivered in Andhra but property  in  .thempasses	outside	 Andhra, the Explanation at  the  same	timemakes  such  a	sale inside Andhra  and	 outside  all  otherStates.	  I do not follow this.	 Why should the	 Explanationin  this  Andhra Act be concerned with saying  when  a	saleshall be deemed to have taken place outside all other States?  Andhra  cannot of course legislate for any  other  State.Nor  is there anything in this Act which makes it  necessaryfor the purposes of it to say when a sale shall be deemed tobe  outside all other States.  It follows therefore  that  aconstruction  cannot  be put on the language  used  in	tileExplanation  which produces the result of showing a sale  tobe inside Andhra and so outside all other States.   Further,as I have earlier pointed out, the words " For the  purposesof  clause (a)(i)" with which the Explanation  starts,	showconclusively that it is necessarily confined to a sale underwhich  goods are delivered in a State other than Andhra	 andthe  property  in  the goods passes in	Andhra.	  It  is  noobjection to this reading of the Explanation to say that theAndhra Act would then be saying when a sale is to be  deemedto have taken place inside another State and it has no powerto  do	so as it can legislate only for itself	and  for  noother  State.  Such an objection would be pointless  becauseAndhra	by saying that a sale shall be deemed to have  takenplace  inside another State is only legislating	 for  itselfand  only  saying that such a sale is therefore	 an  outsidesale  so far as it is concerned and cannot be taxed in	viewof  s. 22(a) of its Act.  It may be that it is	possible  inconstruing the Explanation in Art. 286(1)(a) to conceive  oftwo  facets  because that dealt with all States or  any	 twoStates	at  a time and for all these  the  Constitution	 wasfully  competent to lay down the law.  That however  is	 notpossible   when	  construing  a	 law  passed  by   a   Statelegislature.   Such  law cannot regulate the laws  of  otherStates.	  And  in  this	 case  the  conception	is   furtherimpossible  because the language shows that the	 Explanationis for explaining when a sale is to be deemed to have  takenplace outside the State of Andhra.  It is not meant to1495explain	 when it is deemed to have taken place	outside	 anyState  whatsoever that State may be.  I am therefore  unableto see that the Explanation has any facet showing what wouldbe a sale inside Andhra.The  conclusion that I reach is that the Sales Tax Act	withwhich  these  cases are concerned does	not  authorise	'.hetaxing	of a sale under which goods are delivered in  Andhrabut the property in them passes in Madras.  In this view  ofthe  matter  I	do not think it	 necessary  to	discuss	 thevarious other grounds on which the respondent's right to taxthese sales was also challenged.In the result I would allow these petitions.BY  COURT:  In	view of the opinion  of	 the  majority,	 thepetitions  an dismissed.  The parties are to bear their	 owncosts.			  Petitions dismissed.