PETITIONER:UJAGAR SINGH	Vs.RESPONDENT:MST.  JEODATE OF JUDGMENT:23/04/1959BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.IMAM, SYED JAFFERSUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1041		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 781 CITATOR INFO : R	    1961 SC1374	 (2) R	    1964 SC1821	 (8) RF	    1973 SC1134	 (4) F	    1989 SC1359	 (19) RF	    1991 SC1654	 (15)ACT:Customary  Law-Proof  of custom-When can be  taken  judicialnotice of-Jat agriculturists of the Punjab-Sister inheritingbrother's  property  in	 Preference  to	  collaterals-IndianEvidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), s. 57(1).HEADNOTE:The  question involved in this appeal was whether under	 thecustomary law of the Punjab a sister was a preferential heirin  respect  of her brother's self-acquired property,  to  acollateral.  The respondent, the sister, relied on a custom,which she termed a special custom, and on that basis claimedher  brother's property, and the appellant, a collateral  ofthe  8th degree of her brother, resisted her  claim  relyingsolely	on  a general custom stated in paragraph 24  Of	 theRattigan's Digest of the Customary Laws of the Punjab to theeffect	that  sisters were excluded by	collaterals  in	 thematter	of  inheritance	 to  non-ancestral  property.	 TheSubordinate judge, and the District judge on appeal, held infavour	of the appellant but the High Court  reversed  theirdecisions holding that, there was no such general custom  asrecorded  by Rattigan and that it was in any event  for	 theappellants  to prove that custom and this he had  failed  todo.   The  High	 Court also held  that	the  respondent	 hadsucceeded  in  proving	the custom set up by  her.   It	 wascontended on behalf of the appellant that the High Court wasin  error in placing the onus of proving the custom  on	 himsince the custom was a general custom as stated by Rattigan.Held,  that no distinction could be made between  a  generalcustom or other customs so far as the need of proof was con-cerned	and the ordinary rule was that all customs,  generalor   otherwise,	 had  to  be  proved  unless   by   repeatedrecognition  by the courts a custom had become	entitled  tojudicial notice under s. 57(1) of the Evidence Act.Raja Rama Rao v. Raja of Pittapur, (1918) L.R. 45 I.A.	148,relied on.Although there could be no doubt that Rattigan's Digest	 wasof the highest authority on questions of custom of the	Pun-jab, it was not possible, regard being had to the formidablearray  of  conflicting	decisions of the courts	 as  to	 itsexistence,  to take judicial notice of the custom  mentionedin paragraph 24 of the Digest, without further proof.Case-law reviewed.Although the respondent had in the plaint relied on a customand termed it a special custom, that could not amount to an782admission which would obviate the necessity of proof of	 thegeneral customs or its terms by the appellant.Even  supposing that the High Court was not correct  in	 itsfinding that the respondent had proved the custom  entitlingher  to succeed, as the custom set up by the  appellant	 hadnot  also  been established, s. 5 Of the  Punjab  Laws	Act,1872, applied and the case had to be decided by the personallaw of the parties.  The respondent was entitled to base herclaim  on  the personal law although in her plaint  she	 hadrelied on a custom.  The personal law of the parties was theHindu  law and the respondent was entitled to succeed  underthat law also.Daya  Ram v. Sohel Singh, 110 P.R. 1906, Abdul Hussein	Khanv.  Bibi Sona Dero, (1917) L.R. 45 I.A. 10 and Mst.   FatimaBibi v. Shah Nawaz, (1920) I.L.R. 2 Lah. 98, relied on.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 296 of 1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and decree  datedSeptember 8, 1952, of the Punjab High Court in Civil RegularSecond Appeal No. 327 of 1948, arising out of the  judgment.and decree dated November 21, 1947, of the Court of DistrictJudge, Amritsar, in Appeal No. 212 of 1946 from the judgmentand decree dated August 20, 1946, of the Subordinate  Judge,1st Class, Amritsar, in Suit No. 297 of 1945.Achhru Ram and R. S. Narula, for the appellant.Gurbachan Singh and Madan Lal Kapur, for the respondent.1959.  April 23.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySARKAR, J.-The suit out of which this appeal arises concernsthe  right to certain plots of land in	village	 Sultanwind,Tehsil	and  District Amritsar in the Punjab.  It  raises  aquestion of the Punjab customs.Sahib  Singh, the last male owner of the lands	in  dispute,died in December 1918 leaving a widow Nihal Kaur.  The widowsucceeded   to	the  lands  but	 on  tier  remarriage	soonthereafter,  she  was divested of them and  they  passed  toSahib  Singh's	mother,	 Kishen Kaur who  died	on  November12,1942.On Kishen Kaur's death disputes arose between Sahib  Singh'ssister, Jeo, the respondent in this appeal783and his agnatic relation, the appellant Ujagar Singh, as  tothe  ownership	of  the lands.	The  Tehsildar	entered	 therespondent's  name as the owner of the lands in the  revenuerecords	 but  on appeal by the appellant, the  Collector  ofAmritsar  directed the name of the respondent to be  removedand the appellant's name to be entered in its place.On  June 11, 1945, the-respondent filed a suit	against	 theappellant asking for a declaration that she was the owner ofthe lands.  In paragraph 3 of the plaint it was stated	thatthe respondent " came into possession of the properties leftby  Kishen  Kaur,  as the heir of her  father  and  brother,according  to  the  Zamindara  -Custom	prevalent  in  MauzaSultanwind among the people of the Got (Sub-caste)  Bheniwaland the custom of the family of her father ". In paragraph 5it  was stated, " According to the  afore-mentioned  specialcustom,	 the  right of inheritance of the daughter  and	 herdescendants and in their absence that of the' sister and herdescendants  to the property left by her father and  brotheris preferential to that of the collaterals beyond the  fifthdegree; no matter whether the property is ancestral or self-acquired." The defence taken in the written statement of theappellant was that " According to the General Custom and theCustom	of  the District of Amritsar, the plaintiff  as	 hissister	is in no way the heir of the property left by  (her)brother	 in  presence of the reversionary heirs,  no  matterwhether	 the land is ancestral qua reversionary heirs or  itis  self  acquired.  There is no particular family,  Got  orvillage	 custom of the District of Amritsar." In  substance,the  position  taken  by the appellant was that	 he  as	 theagnatic	 relation or collateral of Sahib Singh was  entitledto the properties under the general custom of the Punjab  inpreference  to the respondent.	The question that  the	suitinvolved was, who was the preferential heir of Sahib Singh.The  suit was heard by the Subordinate Judge, Amritsar,	 whofound that the appellant was a collateral of Sahib Singh  ofthe  eighth degree and that the properties in  dispute	werenot  ancestral.	 He held that the respondent had  based	 herclaim on a special784custom	but bad not been able to establish it  by  necessaryevidence and therefore the appellant was to be considered asthe preferential heir under the general Custom.The   respondent  then	appealed  to  the  District   Judge,Amritsar.  That learned Judge confirmed the findings of	 theCourt  below  that the land was not ancestral and  that	 theappellant  was	a collateral of Sahib Singh  of	 the  eighthdegree.	 He then held that the general custom of the  Punjabamong  the  agriculturists which the parties were,  was,  asstated'	 in para. 24 of Rattigan's Digest of  the  CustomaryLaw  of the Punjab, that " sisters are usually	excluded  aswell as their issues " and therefore put the onus of provingany  special custom entitling the sister to succeed  on	 therespondent.   On the evidence led by the respondent he	cameto the conclusion that she had failed to discharge the	onusand thereupon dismissed the appeal.The  respondent took the matter up in further appeal to	 theHigh  Court  of	 Punjab.  Kapur J. who	delivered  the	mainjudgment  of  the  High Court, observed	 that  para.  24  ofRattigan's Digest did not lay down the custom correctly	 andthat  the statement there was too broad.  He held  that	 theonus  of  proving the custom whereby a sister  was  excludedfrom  the inheritance lay on the appellant and that  he	 hadfailed	to discharge that onus.	 He also held that  even  ifthe  onus lay on the respondent of proving a  custom  givingher  the right to succeed, she had succeeded in	 dischargingthat onus.  Soni J., another member of the bench which heardthe  appeal, delivered a short judgment in  effect  agreeingwith  the  view	 of Kapur J. In the result  the	 High  Courtallowed	 the appeal and upheld the respondent's claim.	 Thepresent appeal is from this judgment of the High Court.It  is	not  in	 dispute  that	the  parties  belong  to  anagriculturist Jat tribe and are members of the Bheniwal sub-caste of village Sultanwind in Tehsil and District Amritsar.The  genealogical  table on the record would show  that	 theappellant  was a ninth degree collateral of Sahib Singh	 andthis is what the High Court found.  It was not in dispute inthe High Court785nor  before  us that the properties were not  the  ancestralproperties of Sahib Singh.Mr.  Achhru Ram appearing for the appellant  contended	thatthe  learned Judges of the High Court were wrong in  placingthe onus on his client.	 His contention was that the generalcustom in the Punjab among the agriculturist tribes was thatsisters	 were  excluded	 by collaterals	 in  the  matter  ofsuccession  to both ancestral and  non-ancestral  propertiesand  that  custom had been correctly set out  in  Rattigan'sDigest.	 That being so, according to him, the respondent wasnot  entitled  to the properties unless	 she  established  aspecial	 custom	 of the tribe or family,  entitling  her  tosucceed	 in  preference to the collaterals and the  onus  ofdoing  this must, therefore, be on her.	 He  contended	thatshe had failed to discharge the onus.Eminent	 Judges have from time to time pointed out that	 theuse  of the expression " the general custom of the Punjab  "is  inaccurate.	 Plowden, J. in Ralla v. Buddha (1) at	page223  said, " It seems expedient to point out that  there  isstrictly  speaking  no such thing as a custom or  a  generalcustom of the Punjab, in the same sense as there is a commonlaw  of England,a general custom applicable to	all  personsthroughout  the province, subject (like the  English  commonlaw) to modification in its application, by a special customof  a  class,  or by a local custom." Young C.	J.  said  inMussammat  Semon- v. Shahu (2), "There is no such thing	  as-general customary law known to the Legislature' "  In KesarSingh  v. Achhar Singh (3 ) Addison A. C. J. said  that	 theexpression  "general  custom of the Punjab " was  clearly  amisnomer.The  reason given for saying that there is no such thing  asgeneral custom in the Punjab is that custom there is  tribaland even with the same tribe there are different customs fordifferent  localities.	So Sir Charles Roe had said  in	 hisTribal Law in the Punjab, " Under such circumstances, seeingthat the origin of all the tribes is not the same, and	thateven with(1) 50 P.R. I893.	 (2) (1934) I.L.R. I7 Lah. 10, 11.(3) (1935) I. L. R. 17 Lah. 101, 106.99786tribes	of the same origin local and social conditions	havegreatly differed, it would be impossible that there could bea  single  body of Customary or Tribal law,  common  to	 thewhole  of the Punjab ": see Rattigan's Digest (13th Ed.)  p.157.  Each tribe has its own customs and in the Punjab thereare many tribes.None the less however the expression " general custom of thePunjab	" has been frequently used.  It has been used for  apurpose	 which	appears	 clearly from  the  observations  ofAddison	 J.  in Kartar Singh v. Mst.  Preeto  (1),  set	 outbelow:" In fact it had become customary even in the Courts to lookupon  custom as a thing generally followed and to place	 theburden of proof upon any person who asserted that his customwas  not  the same as the so called general  custom  of	 theProvince.  If this person succeeded in proving the custom healleged,  the name, I special custom' was given to it."	 Thereported decisions very often proceeded on the basis that ifthere  was a general custom, it did not have to	 be  proved;that  anybody wishing to rely on a custom at  variance	withthe general custom, must prove it or fail in his claim.It seems to us wrong to say that a general custom need neverbe proved.  It is stated in Halsbury's Laws of England	(3rdEd.) Vol. 11, Art. 319 at p. 171, " All customs of which theCourts	do  not	 take the judicial notice  must	 be  clearlyproved to exist-the onus of establishing them being upon theparties	 relying upon their existence ". No  distinction  ishere  made  between  a general	custom	and  other  customs.Section	 48 of the Evidence Act also contemplates the  Proofof  a general custom.  In Daya Ram v. Sohel Singh  RobertsonJ., said at p. 410 -".........  It	lies upon the person asserting	that  he  isruled  in regard to a particular matter by custom, to  provethat he is so governed, and not by personal law, and furtherto prove what the particular custom is.')These observations were approved by the Judicial(1) (1935) I.L.R. 17 Lah. 296, 299.  (2) 110 P.R. 1906.787Committee in Abdul HuSsein Khan v. Bibi Sona Dero (1).It  therefore appears to us that the ordinary rule  is	thatall customs, general or otherwise, have to be proved.  Unders. 57 of the Evidence Act however nothing need be proved  ofwhich courts can take judicial notice. -Therefore it is saidthat  if  there	 is a custom of which the  courts  can	takejudicial   notice,   it	 need  not  be	proved.	   Now	 thecircumstances  in which the courts can take judicial  noticeof a custom were stated by Lord Dunedin in Raja Rama Rao  v.Raja  of  Pittapur  (2), in the following words,  "  When  acustom or usage, whether in regard to a tenure or a contractor  a family right, is repeatedly brought to the  notice  ofthe Courts of a country, the Courts may hold that custom  orusage  to  be introduced into the law without  necessity  ofproof  in each individual case." When a custom has  been  sorecognised by the courts, it passes into the law of the landand the proof of it then becomes unnecessary under s.  57(1)of the Evidence Act.  It appears to us that in the courts inthe Punjab the expression " general custom " has really beenused  in this sense, namely, that a custom has	by  repeatedrecognition by courts, become entitled to judicial notice aswas  said  in Bawa Singh v. Mt.	 Taro and Sukhwant  Kaur  v.Balwant Singh (4).Is  there  then	 a  custom  that  sisters  are	excluded  bycollaterals  in the matter of inheritance  to  non-ancestralproperties  of	which  the courts  ought  to  take  judicialnotice?	  Mr. Achhru Ram contends that such is the  positionand it is recognised as such in Rattigan's Digest  paragraph24.   There  is no, doubt that Rattigan's Digest is  of	 thehighest authority on questions of the customs of the Punjab.But  we	 can take judicial notice of a statement  of  customtherein	 contained  only if it has been well  recognised  bydecisions  of courts of law.  We have been taken  through  alarge  number of reported decisions on the question  and  itseems to us that the custom as stated by Rattigan(1) (1917) L.R. 45 I.A. 1O, 13.	 (3) A.I.R. 1951 Simla 239.(2)  (1918)  L.R. 45 I.A. 148, 154, 155.   (4)	A.I.R.	1951Simla 242.788cannot	be said to have been so well recognised as  to	havebecome	entitled  to judicial notice  from  -courts  withoutfurther	 proof.	  We find in the law reports  a	 very  largenumber	of  cases  on the subject of  a	 sister's  right  toinherit, one group of which takes the view that there is  nocustom	excluding  sisters from inheritance when  there	 arecollateral  relations  of the last male holder	and  anothergroup  taking  the  contrary ,view.   It  would	 neither  bepossible nor profitable to refer to all these cases here butsome may be mentioned.We shall first mention the cases which do not recognise thata custom excluding sisters from the inheritance exists.	  InMakhan	v.  Musammat Nur Bhari (1)  certain  seventh  degreecollaterals of the last male holder sued the latter's sisterfor possession of his properties.  No claim appears there tohave been made by the collaterals that there was any generalcustom	entitling  them	 to succeed  in	 preference  to	 thesister.	  The case having been returned to the	Chief  Courtafter the enquiry directed by it, Elsmie, J. held:"  The	result of the further enquiry is to  show  that	 theplaintiffs have been unable to prove that they are by customentitled  to exclude the sister of the last owner.   On	 theother hand, there is some evidence, though not much, to showthat sisters have inherited.  It is indeed quite clear	thatno well defined custom is made out one way or the other."The result was that the sister was held entitled to a  shareof the properties that came to her under the Mohammedan law,the  parties  being Mohammedans and no	custom	having	beenproved	one  way or the other.	This was a case	 decided  in1884.In Sheran v. Mussammat Sharman (2) in which the	 collateralswere the plaintiffs and the sister thedefendant, it was observed:" On the question of inheritance, for the plaintiffs it	 hasbeen  contended that under the general Customary Law of	 thePunjab	governing agricultural communities, the	 collateralsin the male line, fifth in(1) 116 P.R. 1884.(2) 117 P.R. 1901.789descent	 from the common ancestor, exclude sisters,  but  weare not prepared to Assent to the wide proposition that sucha general custom exists."It  was also there held that there was no general custom  inthe Mooltan District whereby collaterals were preferred to asister.	  In the end, no custom having been found  to  existfavouring` either side and the parties being Mahomedans, theMohammedan law was applied and the sister got a share.In Bholi v. Kahna (1), it was remarked that paragraph 24  ofRattigan's  Digest  was	 rather broadly	 stated	 and  hardlywarranted by the authorities quoted for and against.In  Mussammat  Bhari v. Khanun (2), where  the	contest	 wasbetween the ninth degree collaterals and a sister, the	onusof proving that the collaterals were entitled to succeed  inpreference  to the sister was placed on the collaterals	 whowere the plaintiffs in the suit, and as the collaterals wereunable to discharge the onus placed on them, they lost.In Mst.	 Fatima Bibi v. Shah Nawaz (3), it was said that thegeneral rule laid down in paragraph 24 of Rattigan's  Digestwas  open  to  the criticism that it  was  based  mainly  onauthorities   regarding	 ancestral  property  and   on	 thegenerally accepted principles of agnatic succession which donot  apply  in the case of self acquired property.   It	 wasalso  held that the reported decisions were not such that  ageneral	 rule  could be said to exist on the question  of  asister's right to succeed which was so widely accepted	thatit  would  justify  a  court  in  coming  to  any   definiteconclusion based on custom.In  Samo  v. Sahu (4) it was said that the court  below	 waswrong in placing the onus on the sister in a contest betweenher and the collaterals of the fourth degree, for, there wasno  such  thing	 as  general  customary	 law  known  to	 thelegislature  and  that Rattigan's Digest  on  Customary	 Lawmerely 'showed that according to judicial decisions a  largenumber of tribes were governed by certain customs in certainmatters.(1) 35 P.R. 1909.	   (2) 20 P.  R. 1919.(3)  (1920) I.L.R. 2 Lah. 98.  (4) (1934) I. L. R.  I7	Lah.10, 11.790In  Jagat Singh v. Puran Singh (1), a case decided in  1944,it was observed at p. 369:"  As  I have indicated above there is no  rule	 of  specialcustom when a contest arises between a sister or a  sister's$on against a near collateral.	Then one has to fall back ongeneral custom.	 There is no rule of general custom on	thatpoint.	 It  is	 no  doubt true	 that  in  paragraph  24  ofRattigan's Digest it has been stated that sisters and  theirsons are in general not heirs but that has been said in verywide  terms.   It may be applicable to	cases  of  ancestralproperty,  but it is difficult to say there is	any  specialrule  of  general  custom when a contest  arises  between  asister and collaterals of the third or fifth degree and	 theproperty is self acquired."In  this case neither a general nor a special custom  havingbeen  proved to exist, the Court based its decision  on	 thepersonal law of the parties, namely, the Hindu law.The cases decided since 1950 all take the view that there isno  general custom giving collaterals preference to  sistersin  matters  of	 inheritance.  They  are  Sukhwant  Kaur  v.Balwant	 Singh	(supra), Maulu v. Mst.	Ish`ro	(2),  HarnamSingh  v.  Mst.	 Gurdev Kaur (3) and Shrimati Bui  v.  GangaSingh (4).We  now	 come  to the other group of  cases  which  seem  torecognise   the	 general  custom  excluding   sisters	frominheritance  when  there are collaterals of  the  last	maleholder.In  Hamira  v.	Ram Singh (5), the  Court  approved  of	 thedecision in Shidan v. Fazal Shah (6), the judgment in  whichis set out as an appendix to the report.  In the latter casethe  contest  was between a sister and	collaterals  of	 theseventh	 degree and it was held that the onus of  proving  acustom	entitling the sisters to succeed rested on them	 andthis  was  based on paragraph 24 of  Rattigan's	 Digest,  anentry  in the Riwaji-i-am which applied to the	parties	 andcertain reported decisions.  Obviously, Rattigan was  reliedupon.(1)  (1944) 49 P.L.R. 366.(2)  (1050) 52 P.L.R. 261.(3)  (1957) 59 P.L.R. 609.(4)  (1959) 61 P.L.R. 145.(5)  134 P.R. 1907.(6)  (1907) P.R. at p. 646.791In  Harnamon v. Santa Singh (1) it was said that the  burdenof  proving  that  the sister was  entitled  to	 succeed  inpreference  to a collateral lay on her.	 The same  view	 wastaken  in  Musammat  Nurbhari  v.  Abdul  Ghani	 Khan	(2),Mussammat  Hussein Bibi v. Nigahia (3), Jagu v.	 Bhago	(4),Began  v.  Ali Gohar (5), Kirpa v. Bakshi  Singh  (6)  (casedecided in 1944), Santi in    1944)  and Mussammat Ratni  v.Harwant Singh (7).In	 some of these cases paragraph 24 ofRattigan's  Digest was expressly approved of as applying  tononancestral properties.It  will  thus appear that there is a  formidable  array  ofauthorities  in	 support of either view.  In this  state  ofconflict  of judicial decisions we are not prepared  to	 saythat a custom giving preference to collaterals over  sistersin the matter of inheritance to non-ancestral properties hasbeen  so widely or uniformly recognised by courts  as  wouldjustify us in taking judicial notice of it.  It is importantalso  to note that it is recognised that a Punjab custom  isfluid and capable of adapting itself to varying	 conditions,as  stated  in Hassan v. Jahana (8) and that  the  decisions-for  the  last	 ten years are uniformly  against  the	viewexpressed  in paragraph 24 of Rattigan's Digest.  We  there-fore come to the conclusion that the High Court was right inits  view  that it could not be held on,  the  authority  ofparagraph  24  in Rattigan's Digest that  a  general  customexcluding  sisters from inheritance as against	collaterals,existed.It was then said that in the plaint it had been admitted  bythe respondent that there was a general custom as alleged bythe  appellant	and so no proof of that general	 custom	 wasrequired  in this case.	 We do not think this contention  isjustified.   No doubt in her plaint the respondent  referredto a custom entitling her to succeed and termed it a specialcustom.	  We are unable to read the reference to  a  specialcustom as(1) (1912) 13 I.C. 71 I.      (2) 100 P.R. 1916.(3) (1919) 1 Lah. 1.	      (4) (1926) 96 I.C. 907.(5) A.I.R. 1934 Lah. 554.     (6) (1948) 50 P.L.R. 220.(7) (1948) 50 P.L.R. 249.     (8) 71 P.R. 1904.792amounting to an admission of a general custom or itsterms.That  being the position we have to see if either  side	 ledany  evidence  in  support  of its claim.   So	far  as	 theappellant is concerned he has relied on the alleged  generalcustom and sought to support it by reference to paragraph 24of Rattigan's Digest.  It view of what we have said  earlierwe  do	not  think that Rattigan's Digest can  be  taken  ascorrectly  laying down the custom on the point.	 Neither  dowe  think that the reported decisions show the existence  ofany such general custom.  There is nothing else on which theappellant  has sought to rely.	We therefore think that	 theappellant has failed to establish the custom alleged by him.We  have next to see whether the respondent has	 proved	 thecustom	which she set up.  We think that she has.  The	HighCourt has discussed the evidence led by the respondent,	 andfound  it acceptable.  We have no reason to take a  contraryview.  'Some reference to the evidence may now be made,	 Ex.P. 4, Settlement Record of 1852, proves that in the  villageSultanwind  Sajja  Singh and Majja Singh  succeeded  to	 theproperties  of	Nodh  Singh  as his  sister's  sons  in	 thepresence of collaterals.  Mr. Achhru Ram contended that	 thestatement  in  Ex.  P. 4, that Sajja Singh and	Majja  Singhwere  the sister's sons of Nodh Singh was wrong for, in	 Ex.P.  5,	the Settlement Records of 1891 and 1892,  they	weredescribed  as the daughter's sons of Nodh Singh	 and  BaghelSingh, his brother.  He contended that on the authorities itis  clear that on a conflict between two settlement  recordsthe  later one in date has to be accepted.  That appears  tohave been held in a number of cases of which Alo v. Sher (1)may  be mentioned.  But it seems to us that this is a  pointwhich should have been raised in the trial Court which	doesnot appear to have been done, for, then the respondent couldhave  led  evidence  to show which  of	the  two  settlementrecords	 put  the matter correctly.  Ex.  P. 9	which  is  asettlement record of 1852 of the same village, shows that onGandhi's(1)  A.I.R. 1927 Lah. 607.793death  his sister's son succeeded to his  properties  thoughthere  were collaterals.  Mr. Achhru Ram's comment was	thatin  1852 things were so unsettled in the Punjab that no	 onecared for lands and that was the reason why the	 collateralsallowed Gandhi's sister's son to succeed to his	 properties.This  is  an  explanation which we  are	 unable	 to  accept.Exhibit P. 7 is a settlement -document of the Bheniwal tribein  the	 village Sultanwind prepared in 1891-92.   It  showsthat  Mst.  Chandi, the sister of Buta Singh,  succeeded  tohis properties.	 It was said that the pedigree did not	showthat  any  collateral  was alive.  But	this  is  not  rightbecause	 it shows that Buta Singh's great grand uncle,	TaraSingh,	was alive.  Mr. Achhru Ram says that that must be  amistake	 and  Tara Singh who was Buta  Singh's	great  granduncle could not have been alive when the latter died.	Thisagain  is a matter which should have been cleared up in	 thetrial Court and we do not think it right to speculate  aboutit.It  remains  to consider two entries in the  Riwaji-iam.  Wehave  first the Riwaji-i-am of 1913-14.	 The entry there  isin this form :"  Q. 70.-Does property ever devolve on sisters and/or	upontheir sons ?A.   All  tribes.-The property never devolves  upon  sistersand their issues."At the foot the case of Bholi v. Kahna (1) is cited.  Now itis well established that Riwaji-i-am entries are to be takenas referring to customs relating to succession to  ancestralproperties  unless it is stated to be otherwise.  So it	 wasstated	in the Full Bench decision of the Lahore High  Courtin Mst.	 Hurmate v. Hoshiaru (2 ) at p. 235:"  It is reasonable, therefore, to assume that when  manualsof  Customary law were originally prepared and	subsequentlyrevised, the persons questioned, unless specifically told tothe contrary, could normally reply in the light of their owninterest  alone and that, as stated above, was	confined  tothe ancestral property(1) 35 P.R. 1909.(2) (1943) I.L.R. 25 Lah.228, 235.100794only.	The fact that on some occasions the  questioner	 hadparticularly  drawn some distinction between  ancestral	 andnon-ancestral  property	 would not have put  them  on  theirguard in every case, considering their lack of education andlack  of intelligence in general.  Similarly the use of	 theterm  "	 in no case " or " under no  circumstances  "  wouldrefer  to ancestral property only and not be extended so  asto  cover selfacquired property unless the context  favouredthat constructionThe Full Bench was really authoritatively laying down a rulewhich  had been the prevailing opinion in the courts in	 thePunjab.	  In the Riwaji-i-am of 1913-14 we find	 nothing  inthe  context  to  show that the answer	there  recorded	 wasintended to apply to self acquired property.  That being so,it  does not prove any custom against the right of a  sisterto inherit the self acquired property of her brother.The  other Riwaji-i-am was that of the year 1940. It was  inthese terms :" Q. 68.-Does property ever devolve upon sisters or sister'sson ?A.   All tribe.-(1)  In	 the  case  of an unmarried sister  or	sisters	 theproperty is entered in her or their name till marriage.(2)  Married sister or sisters or their descendants did	 notget the property in any case."Here again there is nothing in the context to indicate	thatthe  answers were given in regard to nonancestral  property.So this does not help the appellant either.In this Riwaji-i-am eight instances are given.	Some of themdeal with the self acquired property.  That does not in	 ouropinion indicate that the answer recorded in the Riwaji-i-amwas intended to -cover succession to self acquired  propertyalso.  It is not disputed that the instances mentioned underthe  entries in the Riwaji-i-am are often collected  by	 theofficer	 in charge of the preparation of the record.  It  isimpossible  to say whether any, and if so,  which,  instancerecorded in the Riwaji-i-am had been supplied795by  the tribesmen in answer to questions put to them by	 theSettlement  Officer.   It is not possible therefore  to	 saythat  there  is	 any indication in  the	 instances  in	thisRiwaji-i-am  entry that the answers were intended  to  coverself acquired property also.Now of the eight instances given in the Riwaji-i-am two	 areconcerned  with self acquired property where there  were  nocollatetals  and the sisters were allowed to  succeed.	 Theremaining  six	are concerned with ancestral  property.	  Infour of these, the last male owner died without leaving	 anyreversioner  and  in  each such	 case  the  married  sisterssucceeded  to the property.  In the fifth one,, the  sisterswere  unmarried at the time of the brother's death and	theywere allowed to take possession of the properties.  But thisinstance  shows	 that on their marriages taking	 place	theywere   dispossessed  of	 the  properties  which	  apparentlythereupon  went to the, collaterals.  These seven  instancestherefore  do not help either side.  They show that  sisterswere  allowed  to  succeed  in	respect	 of  both  kinds  ofproperties  in	the  absence of	 any  collaterals  and	thatsisters	 were on their marriages divested of  the  ancestralproperties  to which they had succeeded on  their  brothers'deaths,	 they  being  at  that	time  unmarried.   The	lastinstance  deals with the Rajput Mohammedan tribe  of  TehsilAjnala	which is in the District Amritsar, the	district  towhich  the parties to the present litigation  belong.	Thisinstance  shows that a sister was allowed to succeed to	 theancestral property left by the brother in preference to	 hiscollaterals  of	 the  sixth degree.  This  therefore  is  aninstance  of a custom in a neighbouring Tehsil	under  whichsisters	  were	allowed	 to  succeed  in  the  presence	  ofcollaterals  nearer  in degree than the	 collateral  in	 thepresent	 case.	 In these circumstances we  agree  with	 thelearned	 Judges	 of the High Court that the  respondent	 wasable  to  prove a custom whereby a sister  was	entitled  tosucceed	 in  preference to the collateral relations  of	 herbrother.We think it also right to say that even if it had been	heldthat  the  respondent  was not able to	establish  a  customentitling her to succeed she would get the796properties  under the Hindu law.  The parties are  Sikhs  towhom  the  Hindu  law  applies.	  Since	 the  Hindu  Law  ofInheritance (Amendment) Act, 1929, a sister is an heir underthe  Hindu  law in, preference to collaterals and  that	 Actwould  be applicable to the devolution in this case.  It  ishowever	 said that as the respondent had not made any  claimin the plaint on the, basis of Hindu law but on the contraryrelied on custom, it was not open to her to fall back on theHindu law on failing to establish the custom.We do not think that this is the correct position.   Section5  of the Punjab Laws Act, 1872, provides that in  questionsregarding succession, the rule of decision shall be (a)	 anycustom	applicable to the parties; (b) the personal  law  ofthe  parties  except  in so far as  modified  by  custom  orlegislation.   In the Full Bench case of Daya Ram  v.  SohilSingh (1) Robertson, J., said at p. 410:"It therefore appears to me clear that when either party  toa  suit	 sets up " custom " as a rule of decision,  it	liesupon him to prove the custom which be seeks to apply.  If hefails  to do so clause (b) of section 5 of the	Punjab	LawsAct  applies and the rule of decision must be  the  personallaw  of	 the  parties subject to  other	 provisions  of	 theclause."As we have earlier said this observation was approved by theJudicial  Committee in Abdul Hussain Khan v. Bibi Sona	Dero(2).   In Fatima Bibi v. Shah Nawaz (3), a case to which  wehave  earlier  referred, the Court allowed  the	 plaintiff'ssisters, who had based their claim on custom and not on	 thepersonal  law, to fall back on Mohammedan law, the  personallaw  of	 the  parties, on their	 failure  to  establish	 thecustom,	 no  custom against them having been proved  by	 thecollaterals.   There are a number of other  authorities,  towhich  it is not necessary to refer, in which  personal	 lawwas   resorted	to  when  no  custom  on  either  side	 wasestablished.   We  agree that that is the  correct  view  totake.	We therefore think that even if the  respondent	 hadbeen unable to prove the custom in(1) 110 P.R. 1906.	    (2) (1917) L.R. 45 I.A. 10, 13.(3)  (1920) I.L.R. 2 Lah. 98.797her  favour  she is entitled to succeed in the suit  on	 thebasis of the personal law of the parties, namely, theHindu law.Further,  we  see no prejudice to the appellant	 if  such  acourse is adopted.  It is not disputed that if the Hindu lawapplied, the respondent would be entitled to the  propertiesin  preference	to the appellant.  The only defence  to	 theclaim  under  the Hindu law that the  appellant	 could	takewould be a custom.  The custom on which the appellant reliedfor his case was a general custom entitling the	 collateralsto  succeed in preference to sisters.  We have earlier	heldthat  no such general custom has been proved in	 this  case.There.	fore it seems to us in the interest of	justice	 andfor the reason that litigation should come to an end that itis  right that the respondent should succeed in the suit  asher brother's heir under the Hindu law.There  remains	one  other  matter  to	be  mentioned.	 Therespondent  had	 filed an application for an order  that  byreason of certain agreements and certain proceedings arisingout  of the decree in her favour passed in this case by	 theHigh  Court, the appellant should not have been given  leaveby this Court to institute the present appeal and the  leavegranted	 under	Art.  136 of the Constitution  -  should  berevoked.   As, in our view, the respondent succeeds  on	 themerits	of the case we think it unnecessary to	express	 anyopinion on this question.In the result we dismiss the appeal with costs.Appeal dismissed.798