PETITIONER:KRISHAN KUMAR	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE UNION OF INDIADATE OF JUDGMENT:21/05/1959BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1959 AIR 1390		  1960 SCR  (1) 452ACT:Criminal Trial-Misappropriation-Servant receiving goods	 butfailing	 to  account  to  master--Proof	 of  conversion,  ifnecessary--False  explanation  by servant,  whether  can  betaken into consideration-Prevention of Corruption, 1947	 (IIOf 1947), s. 5(1)(c).HEADNOTE:The  appellant was employed as an Assistant Store Keeper  inthe  Central Tractor Organisation, Delhi.  He took  deliveryof a consignment of iron and steel received by rail for	 theOrganisation and removed them from the railway siding.	 Thegoods  did  not	 reach	the  Organisation.   The   appellantabsented himself from duty on the following days and when hewas called he gave a false explanation that he had not takendelivery  of  the  goods.  The appellant  1  was  tried	 formisappropriation of the goods, under S. 5(1)(c)	   of	 thePrevention of Corruption Act, 1947.  At the453trial,	he took the defence that he had moved the  goods  toanother	 siding but this was not accepted and the  appellantwas convicted.	The appellant contended that his  convictionwas  bad  as  the prosecution had failed to  prove  that  heconverted the goods to his own use and did not apply them tothe purpose for which he had received them.Held,  that the appellant had been rightly  convicted.	 Theoffence	  of  misappropriation	was  established  when	 theprosecution proved that the servant received the goods, thathe was under a duty to account to his master and that he hadnot  done  so.	 If the failure to account  was	 due  to  anaccidental  loss then the facts being within  the  servant'sknowledge,  it was for him to explain the loss; it  was	 notfor  the prosecution to eliminate all possible	defences  orcircumstances  which  may exonerate him.  The  giving  of  afalse explanation was an element which the Court could	takeinto consideration in determining the guilty intention. Harakrishna  Mehtab  v. Emperor, A.I.R.  (1930)  Pat.	209;Larnier	 v.  Rex, (1914) A.C. 221; Emperor v.  Santa  Singh,A.I.R.	(1944)	Lah. 338; Emperor v.  Chattur  Bhuj,  (1935)I.L.R.	Pat. 108; Rex v. William, (1836) 7 C. & P.  338	 andReg v. Lynch, (1854) 6 Cox.  C. C. 445, referred to.JUDGMENT:    CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 114of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedDecember  6, 1955, of the Punjab High Court (Circuit  Bench)Delhi  in Criminal Appeal No. 25-D of 1953, arising  out  ofthe  judgment and order dated August 27, 1953, of the  Courtof  the	 special judge at Delhi in Criminal Case  No.  3  of1953.  R. L. Anand, and S. N. Anand, for the appellant.   H.	  J. Umrigar, and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.   1959.   May 21.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyKAPUR J.-This appeal by special leave is brought against thejudgment  and  order  of  the  High  Court  of	the   Punjabconfirming the order of conviction of the appellant under s.5(1)(c)	 of  the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947  (11  of1947) (hereinafter referred to as the Act).  The High  Courtreduced	 the  sentence	of the	appellant  to  nine  months'rigorous imprisonment.454   The appellant was employed as an Assistant  Store  keeperin  the	 Central Tractor Organisation at Delhi	and  amongstother  duties  his  duty  was  the  taking  of	delivery  ofconsignment  of goods received by rail for  Central  TractorOrganisation  and  in that capacity he is  alleged  to	havemisappropriated a major portion of a wagon load of iron	 andsteel  weighing	 about 500 Mds. received  at  Delhi  RailwayStation	 from  the Tata Iron & Steel Co.,  Tatanagar,  underRailway	 Receipt  No. 039967 dated August  12,	1950.	Thisconsignment  of	 goods was taken delivery of on	 October  2,1950  at  the Lahori Gate Depot.  The consignment  had	beenlying  at the Railway depot for a considerable time and	 theCentral	  Tractor  Organisation	 was,  before	taking	 thedelivery, making efforts to have the wharfage and  demurragecharges reduced but it only succeeded in getting a reductionof Rs. 100.  The appellant paid Rs. 2,332-4-0 for  demurrageby  means of credit notes P. N. and P. 0. on October 2,	 andon the following day he paid a further sum of Rs. 57-3-0  bya  credit  note	 P. Q. The prosecution case  was  that	thisconsignment  never reached the Central Tractor	Organisationand  that  the	appellant had removed these  goods  and	 hadmisappropriated them.  He was absent from work after October4,  1950, on the alleged ground of illness but he  was	sentfor  on	 October  7, and appeared  before  the	Director  ofAdministration	Mr.  F. C. Gera and he gave  an	 explanationthat  he (the appellant) had lost the Railway Receipt  alongwith  another Railway Receipt and blank credit	notes  whichhad  been  signed by the Petrol and Transport  Officer.	  Healso  stated that he did not know that the goods covered  bythat   Railway	Receipt	 had  been  cleared.	After	thisexplanation the appellant was. handed over to the police anda  case	 was registered against him at the instance  of	 Mr.F.C. Gera on October 7, 1950.   On  the  following  day, that is, October  8,  1950,	 theappellant made a statement to Sub-Inspector Sumer Shah Singhthat  he  had  given the goods to Gurbachan  Singh  who	 wastraced and in the presence of this Sub-Inspector who was notin  uniform at the time Gurbachan Singh handed over Rs.	 200to the appellant455which	the  Sub-Inspector  took  possession  of  and	thenGurbachan  Singh took the party which consisted of the	Sub-Inspector,  Dharam Vir of the Central  Tractor	Organisationand  witness Kartar Singh to the premises, of Amar Singh  atKotia  Khan  where  iron and steel  goods  were	 seized	 andrecovery  memos	 prepared.   Of the  goods  covered  by	 theconsignment  seven  packages were later recovered  from	 theLahori Gate Goods Depot. The  defence of the appellant was that he took delivery  ofthe  goods  on October 2 and 3 and removed them	 to  anotherRailway Siding known as Saloon Siding where the goods of theCentral Tractor Organisation used occasionally to be stackedin order to save wharfage and demurrage.  In his evidence hestated	that he removed these goods to the Saloon Siding  onOctober	 2 and 3 by means of a truck of the Central  TractorOrganisation  which  was  driven  by  Sukhdev  Singh.	 Theappellant  produced  Sukhdev  Singh and	 two  chowkidars  insupport of his defence that he had removed these goods	fromthe  Lahori Gate Depot to the Saloon Siding by means of	 thetruck of Sukhdev Singh and on some on carts.  The High Courthas  not  accepted this evidence.   Therefore  the  positioncomes  to this that the goods received in  that	 consignmentwere, according to the appellant's own showing, removed fromthe  Lahori  Gate  Depot  but it is  not  proved  that	theyreached'  the  Saloon  Siding and they	did  not  reach	 theCentral	 Tractor Organisation.	There is also the fact	thatthe appellant gave false explanation on October 7, 1950,  asto  what had happened to the Railway Receipt or	 the  creditnotes  which  he  had  received	 from  the  Central  TractorOrganisation  and  there  is  the  further  fact  that	 theappellant  was absent from duty from October 4 to October  7till he was sent for Mr. F.C. Gera. The  prosecution  also tried to show that  the	 goods	wereremoved by Gurbachan Singh to Amar Singh's place from  wherecertain iron and steel goods were recovered.  Now these ironand  steel  goods  do not tally with the  goods	 which	werereceived from Tatanagar under Railway Receipt No. 039967 andthe goods456seized from Amar Singh's place have not been shown to be  ofthe Tata Iron & Steel Co's manufacture.	 Therefore the	casereduces	 itself to this that the appellant took delivery  ofthe  goods.  These goods were removed-from the	Lahori	GateRailway	 Depot by the appellant and they never	reached	 theCentral	 Tractor  Organisation.	 The prosecution  sought  toconnect the goods found at Amar Singh's place with the goodsreceived, taken delivery of and removed by the appellant butthey  failed  to do so because neither the identity  of	 thegoods  is the same nor has Gurbachan Singh been produced  todepose that it was the appellant who asked him to remove thegoods for being taken to Amar Singh's place. In  this  view of the matter the question for	decision  iswhether	 the  case of the prosecution should be held  to  beproved that the appellant had misappropriated the goods.  Itemerges	 from  the evidence of both parties that  the  goodswere received by the appellant and removed by him; and	theynever  reached	the Central Tractor  Origanisation.   Indeedbefore the High Court it was not disputed that the appellanttook delivery of the whole consignment at Lahori Gate  Depotand  "	he  was responsible for the actual  removal  of	 twoconsiderable portions of the consignment on the 2nd and	 3rdof October.  "The offence of which the appellant; has been convicted is s.5(1) (c) of the Act which is as follows:-	      5.    (1) " A public servant is said to commit	      the offence of  criminal	misconduct  in	 the	      discharge of his duty	       (c)   if	 he  dishonestly   or	fraudulently	      misappropriates or otherwise converts for	 his	      own use any property entrusted to him or under	      his control as a public servant or allows	 any	      other person so to do ";The  word  dishonestly' is defined in s. 24  of	 the  IndianPenal Code to be	      " Whoever does anything with the intention  of	      causing	wrongful  gain	to  one	 person	  or	      wrongful loss to another person. is said to do	      that thing dishonestly'.457" Fraudulently has been defined in the Indian Penal Code  ins. 25 as follows:	      " A person is said to do a thing	fraudulently	      if  he does that thing with intent to  defraud	      but, not other-, wise."Wrongful gain includes wrongful retention and wrongful	lossincludes  being	 kept out of the property as well  as  beingwrongfully   deprived	of  property.	Therefore   when   aparticular  thing  has gone into the hands of a	 servant  hewill  be  guilty  of  misappropriating	the  thing  in	 allcircumstances  which show a malicious intent to deprive	 themaster	of it.	As was said by Fazl Ali, J., in	 HarakrishnaMahtab v. Emperor (1):	      "	 Now  I do not mean to suggest	that  it  is	      either necessary or possible in every case  of	      criminal	breach	of trust to  prove  in	what	      precise	manner	the  money  was	  spent	  or	      appropriated by the accused; because under the	      law,  even temporary retention is an  offence,	      provided	that it is dishonest............   I	      must point out that the essential thing to  be	      proved in case of criminal breach of trust  is	      whether the accused was actuated by  dishonest	      intention	  or  not.   As	 the   question	  of	      intention is not a matter of direct proof, the	      Courts  have  from  time	to  time  laid	down	      certain  broad  tests  which  would  generally	      afford useful guidance in deciding whether  in	      a	 particular case the accused had or had	 not	      mens  area  for  the crime.  So  in  cases  of	      criminal	breach	of  trust  the	failure	  to	      account  for  the money proved  to  have	been	      received	by  the 'accused or giving  a  false	      account of its use is generally considered  to	      be a strong circumstance against the accused."  The offence under s. 5(1)(c) is the same as  embezzlement,which  in English law, is constituted when the property	 hasbeen  received	by  the accused for or in  the	name  or  onaccount	 of the master or employer of the accused and it  iscomplete when the -servant fraudulently misappropriates thatproperty. (Halsbury's Laws of England, Vol. 10, 3rd Edition,p.  787) In Larnier v. Rex (2) the offence  of	embezzlementwas(1) A.I. R. (1930) Patna 209.	  (2) (1914) A.C. 221,458described  as a wilful appropriation by the accused  of	 theproperty  of  another.	A court of Justice, it was  said  inthat  case "cannot reach the conclusion that ,the crime	 hasbeen  committed unless it be a just result of  the  evidencethat  the  accused in what was done or omitted	by  him	 wasmoved by the guilty mind."  So the essence of the offence with which the appellant wascharged is that after the possession of the property of	 theCentral Tractor Organisation he dishonestly or	fraudulentlyappropriated  the  property entrusted to him  or  under	 hiscontrol	 as a public servant and deprived the  owner,  i.e.,Central Tractor Organisation of that property.  It is not necessary or possible in every case to prove  inwhat  precise  manner the accused person has dealt  with  orappropriated  the goods of his master.	The question is	 oneof  intention and not a matter of direct proof but giving  afalse account of what he has done with the goods received byhim.  may  be  treated a  strong  circumstance	against	 theaccused	 person.   In  the case of a  servant  charged	withmisappropriating  the  goods of his master the	elements  ofcriminal offence of misappropriation will be established  ifthe prosecution proves that the servant received the  goods,that  he was under a duty to account to his master  and	 hadnot  done  so.	 If the failure to account  was	 due  to  anaccidental  loss then the facts being within  the  servant'sknowledge, it is for him to explain the loss.  It is not thelaw  of this country that the prosecution has  to  eliminateall  possible defences or circumstances which may  exoneratehim.  If these facts are within the knowledge of the accusedthen he hag to prove them.  Of course the prosecution has toestablish  a prima facie case in-the first instance.  it  isnot enough to establish facts which give rise to a suspicionand  then by reason of s. 106 of the Evidence Act  to  throwthe onus on him to prove his innocence.	 See Harries,  C.J.,in Emperor v. Santa Singh In the present case the  appellantreceived the consignment of goods which came from Tatanagar.It is admitted that he removed them and it was found by(1)  A.I.R. (1944) Lah. 338 at P. 346.459the  High Court that they never reached the Central  TractorOrganisation.	He  gave an explanation in court  which	 hasbeen  found  to be false.  Before Mr. F. C. Gera he  made  astatement to the effect that he had lost the Railway Receiptand therefore had never got the delivery of the goods  whichwas also false.	 In these circumstances, in our opinion, thecourt	would  be  justified  in  concluding  that  he	 haddishonestly misappropriated the goods of the Central TractorOrganisation.  The giving of false explanation is an elementwhich  the  Court can take into consideration.	(Emperor  v.Chattur	 Bhuj (1)).  In Rex v. William (2).  Coleridge,	 J.,charged the jury as follows :"	      The circumstances of the prisoner having quit-	      ted  her	place  and gone off  to	 Ireland  is	      evidence	from -which you may infer  that	 she	      intended	to appropriate the money and if	 you	      think that she did so intend, she is guily  of	      embezzlement".	      Again in Reg v. Lynch (3), Moore, J., said:-	      "	 You  have  further  the  fact	that,  after	      getting the money, the prisoner absconded	 and	      did not come back till he was in custody.	 You	      may infer that he intended to appropriate this	      money,   and   if	  so,  he   is	 guilty	  of	      embezzlement."The  appllent's	 counsel relied on certain  observations  incertain	 decided cases which, according to  his	 submission,support his contention that the prosecution has to prove notonly receipt of goods by the accused but also to prove	thathe  converted them to his own use and did not apply them  tothe  purpose  for which he received them.   He	referred  toGhulam	Haider v. Emperor(4) ;In re Ramakkal &	Others	(5);Bolai Chandra Khara v. Bishnu Bejoy Srimani (6) Bhikchand v.Emperor	 (7) ;Pritchard v. Emperor (8).	 So  broadly  statedthis  submission does not find support even from  the  casesrelied	upon  by  the appellant's  counsel.   They  are	 alldecisions  on the peculiar circumstances of each  case.	  InGhulam Haider's case (4)(1)  (1935) I.L.R. 15 Patna 108.   (5)	A.I.R.	 1938	Mad.172.(2)  (1836) 7 C. & P. 338.	 (6)	A.I.R.	 1934	Cal.425.(3)  1854 6 Cox.  C.C. 445.	  (7)	A.I.R.	1934   Sindh22.(4)  AI.R. 1938 Lah. 534.	  (8)	A.I.R.	 1928	Lah.382.460the  proposition  was  qualified by  saying  that  proof  ofreceipt and failure to account " is a long way towards proofof misappropriation but not the whole way." In that case thebooks in which receipts ought to have been entered were	 notproduced  and  there was absence of "  clear  accounts."  InRamakkal's  case  (1)  the accused was	the  receiver  of  acurrency  note found by a child and it was held	 that'	mereintention to misappropriate or even preparation to that	 endwas not an offence.  It was a case brought to the High Courtat  an	intermediate stage for quashing the charge  and	 theHigh  Court did not do so.  Bolai Chandra Khara's  case	 (2)only  emphasised that proof of one element of  the  criminalbreach	of trust is not enough for conviction and  proof  ofnon-payment  of money collected by a gomastha must be  givenby the prosecution. In Bhikchand's case (3) it was held thatit is only on proof of non-payment of money received by	 theaccused that " presumption will arise of  misappropriation."In Pritchard's case (4) also the prosecution did not producethe   books  of	 account  showing  nonpayment.	 All   thesedecisions  must be confined to their peculiar facts  and  intheir  ultimate	 analysis  do not  support  the	 propositioncontended for by the appellant.What  the prosecution have proved in this case is  that	 theappellant took delivery of the goods on October 2 and 3. Hisown statement on oath shows that he removed these goods fromthe  Railway  Siding.	This  removal  is  also	 proved	  bydocumentary  evidence in the form of gate passes.  There  isalso  proof  of the fact that the goods did  not  reach	 theCentral	 Tractor Organisation.	The appellant has  given  anexplanation  that  he  removed these  goods  to	 the  SaloonSiding.	  This explanation has not been accepted.  The	pro-secution  have also proved that the appellant in  the  firstinstance  gave	a false explanation that he  had  not  takendelivery  of the goods.	 He had absented himself  from	dutyand  had to be called by the Officer-in-charge.	 He has	 setup the defence of removal to the Saloon Siding which was notaccepted.(1)  A.I.R. 1938 Mad. 172.     (3) A.I.R. 1934 Sindh 22.(2)  A.I.R. 1934 Cal, 425.     (4) A.I.R. 1928 Lah. 382.461The  prosecution also set out to prove that the	 goods	weredisposed of by the appellant by giving them to one GurbachanSingh  who in turn put these at the premises of	 Amar  Singhand  some  steel goods were' recovered from  there  but	 theprosecution have neither produced Gurbachan Singh nor has itbeen proved that the goods are part of the consignment whichwas taken delivery of by the appellant.	 If under the law itis  not necessary or possible for the prosecution  to  provethe manner in which the goods have been misappropriated thenthe failure of the prosecution to prove facts it set out  toprove would be of little relevance.  The question would onlybe  one of intention of the appellant and the  circumstanceswhich have been above set out do show that the appellant  inwhat he has done or has omitted to do was moved by a  guiltymind.In  our opinion the appellant was rightly convicted  and  wewould therefore dismiss this appeal.		   Appeal dismissed.