PETITIONER:M/S.  ZORASTER AND CO.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, DELHI, AJMER, RAJASTHAN	 ANDDATE OF JUDGMENT:17/04/1960BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.BENCH:HIDAYATULLAH, M.DAS, S.K.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR  107		  1961 SCR  (1) 210 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1961 SC1633	 (14,26,27,32) R	    1963 SC1356	 (121) R	    1963 SC1484	 (8) R	    1965 SC1636	 (16) R	    1966 SC1466	 (7) RF	    1972 SC2048	 (5) R	    1990 SC1451	 (5)ACT:Income-tax  Reference--Power  of  High	Court  to  call	 forsupplemental statement of case--Indian Income-tax Act,	1922(11 of 1922), s. 66(4).HEADNOTE:The appellant entered into contract with Government for	 thesupply	of  goods, and in the assessment  year	1942-43	 Rs.10,80,653  and in the assessment year 1943-44, Rs.  7,45,336were assessed as its income by the Income-tax Officer.	 Thesupplies  to  Government  were	made  for.   Jaipur  by	 theappellant, and payment was by cheques which were received atJaipur.	  The  contention  of the appellant  was  that	thisincome	was  received  at Jaipur outside  the  then  taxableterritories.   This  contention	 was  not  accepted  by	 theIncome-tax  Appellate Tribunal, Delhi.	The  appellant	thenapplied for a reference to the High Court under s. 66(1)  ofthe  Indian Income-tax Act, and by its order dated  December10,  1952, the Tribunal referred the following question	 forthe decision of the High Court.      "	 Whether on the facts and circumstances of the	casethe  profits and gains in respect of the sales made  to	 theGovernment211of India were received by the assessee in the taxable terri-tories ?"The  High  Court  remanded the case to the  Tribunal  for  asupplemental statement of case calling for a finding on	 thequestion  "  whether the cheques were sent to  the  assesseefirm by post or by hand and what directions, if any, had theassessee  firm given to the department in the matter ".	 Theappellant questioned the order of the High Court relying  onthe  decision  in New Jehangir Vakil Mill's case,  [1960]  1S.C.R. 249.Held, that the enquiry in such cases must be to see  whetherthe   question	decided	 by  the  Tribunal  admits  of	 theconsideration  of  the	new  point  as	an  integral  or  anincidental  part thereof.  The supplemental statement  whichthe Tribunal is directed to submit must arise from the factsadmitted  and/or found by the Tribunal and should  not	openthe door to fresh evidence.Held, further, that the question as framed in this case	 waswide enough to include an enquiry into whether there was anyrequest, express or implied, that the amount of the bills bepaid  by cheques so as to bring the matter within the  dictaof this Court in the Ogale Glass Works case, [1955] 1 S.C.R.185 or Jagdish Mills case, [1960] 1 S.C.R. 236.In  the absence of anything expressly said in the  Order  ofthe  High Court to the contrary, it cannot be held that	 thedirection  given would lead inevitably to the  admitting  offresh  evidence	 as  that has been  prohibited	by  the	 NewJehangir Vakil Mills case.The  New  Jehangir Vakil Mills Ltd. v. The  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax, [1960] 1 S.C.R. 249, distinguished.Jagdish	 Mills Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax, [1960]  1S.C.R.	236,  Keshav  Mills Co.	 Ltd.,	v.  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax,  [1950]  18	 I.T.R.	 407,  Sir  Sobha  Singh  v.Commissioner of Income-tax, [1950] 18 I.T.R. 998,  KirloskarBros.	Ltd.v. Commissioner of Income-tax, [1952] 21  I.T.R.82,  Commissioner  of Income-tax v. Ogale Glass	 Works	Ltd.[1955] 1 S.C.R. 185, Commissioner of Income-tax v. KirloskarBros.	Ltd.,  [1954] 25 I.T.R. 547 and	 Mrs.	Kusumben  D.Mahadevia,  Bombay  v. Commissioner of	Income-tax,  Bombay,[1960] 3 S.C.R. 417, referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 30 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedMarch 24, 1955, of the Punjab High Court in Civil  ReferenceNo. 3 of 1953.Gopal Singh, for the appellants.K. N. Rajagopala Sastri and D. Gupta, for the respondent.2121960.	August 17.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyHIDAYATULLAH J.-This appeal, by special leave of this Court,is against the judgment 'and order dated March 24, 1955,  ofthe  Punjab High Court by which	 the High Court,  purportingto  act under s. 66(4) of the Indian Income-tax Act,  calledfor a supplemental statement of the case from the Income-taxAppellate Tribunal.  The special leave granted by this Courtis  limited  to	 the question whether  the  High  Court	 hadjurisdiction  in  this	case to call  for  the	supplementalstatement.The  assessee, Messrs.	S. Zoraster & Co., Jaipur,  consistsof  three partners.  Two of them are coparceners of a  jointHindu family, and the third is a stranger.  They had  formedthis partnership in June, 1940, for the manufacture and saleof  blankets, felts and other woollen articles.	 A  deed  ofpartnership  was  also	executed on  March  16,	 1944.	 Theassessee entered into contracts with Government for the sup-ply  of	 goods,	 and in the  assessment	 year  1942-43,	 Rs.10,80,658-0-0  and  in	the  assessment	 year  1943-44,	 Rs.17,45,336-0-0 were assessed as its income by the  Income-taxOfficer,  Contractor's Circle, New Delhi.  The	supplies  toGovernment  were  made	for.  Jaipur by	 the  assessee,	 andpayment	 was  by cheques which were received at	 Jaipur	 andwere  endorsed	in favour of the joint Hindu  family,  whichacted  as  the assessee's bankers.  The	 contention  of	 theassessee was that this income was received at Jaipur outsidethe  then  taxable  territories.  This	contention  was	 notaccepted by the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal, Delhi.The assessee then applied for a reference to the High  Courtunder  s.  66(1) of the Indian Income-tax Act,	and  by	 itsorder  dated  December 10, 1952,  the  Income-tax  AppellateTribunal referred the following question for the decision ofthe High Court:"  Whether  on the facts and circumstances of the  case	 theprofits	 and  gains  in respect of the	sales  made  to	 theGovernment  of	India were received by the assessee  in	 thetaxable territories ? "213The  Tribunal  had stated in the statement of  the  case  asfollows:"The payment was made by the Government of India by  chequesdrawn  on the Reserve Bank of India, Bombay  Branch.   Thesecheques were received in Jaipur."It  may be pointed out that in the contract of sale  betweenthe  assessee  and the Government of  India,  the  followingclause was included to determine the system of payment:       "  21.	System of payment:-Unless  otherwise  agreedbetween	 the  Purchaser and the Contractor payment  for	 thedelivery  of the stores will be made by the  Chief  Auditor,Indian	Stores	Department,  New  Delhi,  by  cheque  on   aGovernment treasury in India or on a branch of the  ImperialBank  of  India	 or the Reserve Bank  of  India	 transactingGovernment business."In  dealing  with the Reference, the High  Court  passed  anorder under s. 66(4) of the Income-tax Act observing,"........  it would be necessary for the Appellate  Tribunalto  find, inter alia, whether the cheques were sent  to	 theassessee  firm	by post or by hand and what  directions,  ifany,  had the assessee firm given to the Department  in	 thematter ".The High Court thereafter remanded the case to the  Tribunalfor  a	supplemental  statement of the	case  on  the  linesindicated.  This order is questioned on the authority of thedecision of this Court in The New Jehangir Vakil Mills	Ltd.v.  The Commissioner of Income-tax(1) which, it is  claimed,completely  covers this case.  In that case also,  the	HighCourt  of Bombay had called for a supplemental statement  ofthe case, and it was ruled by this Court that the High Courthad exceeded its jurisdiction.Before	dealing	 with this question, it is necessary  to  goback  a	 little,  and refer briefly to	some  cases  decidedearlier	 than  The  New Jehangir Vakil Mills  case  (1)	 andJagdish	 Mills	Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax  (2),  onwhich reliance has been placed in this case.  ID(1) [1960] 1 S.C.R. 249.(2) [1960] 1 S.C.R. 236.214Keshav	Mills Co., Ltd. v. Commissioner of  Income-tax	(1),the High Court of Bombay called for a supplemental statementof the case, but it expressed the view that if a cheque	 wasreceived by a creditor on a British Indian Bank and he	gavethe  cheque  to his bank for collection, the  bank  must  betreated	 as  his agent and that, on the realisation  of	 theamount of the cheque in the taxable territory, the  creditormust  be  regarded  as having received	it  in	the  taxableterritory, even if he was outside it.  In Sir Sobha Singh v.Commissioner  of Income-tax (2), it was held by	 the  PunjabHigh  Court  that  where cheques were given to	a  bank	 forpurposes of collection, the receipt of the money was at	 theplace  where  the bank on which the cheques were  drawn	 wassituated.These views found further amplification, and were applied intwo  other  cases  by the Bombay If high  Court.   They	 areKirloskar Bros.	 Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax (3 ) andOgale  Glass Works Ltd. v. Commissioner of  Income-tax	(4).In  both  these	 cases, it was held that  unless  the  payeeexpressly constituted the post office as his agent, the mereposting of the cheque did not constitute the post office theagent  of the payee, and that the amount of the	 cheque	 wasalso  received at the place where the cheque  was  received.In  Kirloskar Bros.  Ltd. v. Commissioner of  Income-tax(3),it was held that the mere posting of the cheque in Delhi wasnot  tantamount	 to  the receipt of  the  cheque  in  Delhi,because	 the payee had not requested the Government to	sendthe  cheque  by post.  In Ogale Glass Works  case  (4),	 theBombay High Court asked for a supplementary statement of thecase  from the Tribunal as to whether there was any  expressrequest	 by the assessee that the cheque should be  sent  bypost,  and held that as there was no such  express  request,the receipt of the money was not where the cheque was postedbut at the place where the money was received.(1)  [1950] 18 I.T.R. 407.(2)  [1950] 18 I.T.R. 998.(3)  [1952] 21 I.T.R. 82.(4)  I.	 Tax  Reference No. 10 of 1949 of the Bombay  H.  C.decided on September 17, 1951.215The  last  two	decisions  of the  Bombay  High	 Court	werereversed  by this Court, and it was held that an  intimationto  the	 payer	"  to  remit "	the  amount  by	 cheque	 wassufficient nomination of the post office as the agent of thepayee: vide Commissioner of Income-tax v. Ogale Glass  WorksLtd.  (1) and Commissioner of Income-tax v. Kirloskar  Bros.Ltd.  (2).  Later, the principle was extended still  furtherby  this Court in Jagdish Mills case(3).  It was  held	thatwhere the bills had an endorsement Government should pay theamount	due by cheque and the cheques were received in	fullsatisfaction unconditionally, this constituted a  sufficientimplied	 request for the purpose of the application  of	 therule in Ogale Glass Works case of this Court.Jagdish Mills case (3) and the New Jehangir Vakil Mills case(4)  were  decided by this Court on the same  day.   In	 thelatter case, the Department had to deal with a	non-residentCompany	 which,	 at  all  material  times,  was	 situate  atBhavnagar, one of the Indian States.  Cheques in payment forsupplies  to  Government  were sent from  British  India  toBhavnagar.  The Department contended in the case that thoughthe cheques were received at Bhavnagar, they were, in  fact,cashed	in British India and until such	 encashment,  incomecould  not  be	said  to have  been  received  but  that  onencashment in British India, the receipt of income was	alsoin British India.  The Tribunal held that the cheques havingbeen  received	at Bhavnagar the income	 was  also  receivedthere.	 In  doing  so, the  Tribunal  followed	 the  Bombaydecision  in  Kirloskar Brothers case  (5).   The  Tribunal,however,  observed  that if the Bombay view which  was	thenunder appeal to this Court were not upheld, then an  enquirywould  have to be made as to whether the Mills'	 bankers  atAhmedabad  acted  as the Mills' agents	for  collecting	 theamount due on the cheques.  The question whether the postingof  the	 cheques  from British India  to  Bhavnagar  at	 therequest, express or(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 185.(3)  [1960] 1 S.C.R. 236.(2)  [1954] 25 I.T.R. 547.(4)  [1960] 1 S.C.R. 249.(5)  [1952] 21 I.T.R. 82.216implied, of the Mills or otherwise, made any difference	 wasnot considered at any stage before the case reached the HighCourt of Bombay.  This was expressly found to be so by	thisCourt in these words:	"  The	only  ground urged by  the  Revenue  at	 allmaterial  stages  was that because the	amounts	 which	werereceived, from the merchants or the Government were receivedby  cheques  drawn  on banks in	 British  India	 which	wereultimately  encashed in British India, the monies could	 notbe  said  to  have been received  in  Bhavnagar	 though	 thecheques were in fact received at Bhavnagar."The  reference	was  held  back by  the	 Tribunal  till	 thedecision  of  this Court in Ogale Glass Works case  (1)	 andKirloskar  Brothers'  case (2).	 Even after seeing  that  inthose  two  cases the request for payment by cheques  to  besent  by post made all the difference, the Tribunal did	 notframe  its statement of the case or the question to  includethis  aspect,  because that aspect of the matter  was  neverconsidered  before.' The question referred was thus  limitedto  the	 legal	effect	of the receipt	of  the	 cheques  atBhavnagar without advertence to the fact whether the chequeswere so sent by post at the request, express or implied,  ofthe Mills.  The question framed was:      "	 Whether  the receipt of the  cheques  in  Bhavnagaramounted to receipt of the sale proceeds in Bhavnagar ? "The  question as framed and the statement which	 accompaniedit  brought  into  controversy	the  only  point  till	thenconsidered by the Tribunal and the taxing authorities.	Whenthe case *as heard by it, the High Court desired to considerit  from  the angle of the Kirloskar Brothers(2)  and  OgaleGlass  Works  (1)  cases.   It	called	for  a	supplementalstatement  of  the case.  In doing so, the High	 Court	wentbeyond	the ambit of the controversy as it had existed	tillthen  and also the statement of the case and  the  question.The High Court directed the Tribunal as follows:   "On the finding of the Tribunal that all the cheques werereceived in Bhavnagar, the Tribunal to find(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 185.(2) [1954] 25 I.T.R. 547.217what portion of these cheques were received by post, whetherthere  was any request by the assessee, express or  implied,that  the  amounts  which are the subject  matter  of  thesecheques should be remitted to Bhavnagar by post."In repelling the objection that such an enquiry was alien tothe  point decided by the Tribunal and might  require  freshevidence, the High Court justified itself by saying:     "	But we cannot shut out the necessary  inquiry  whicheven  from our own point of view is necessary to be made  inorder  that  we should satisfactorily  answer  the  questionraised	in  the Reference.  It must not	 be  forgotten	thatunder  section 66(4) of the Income-tax Act we have  a  rightindependently  of the conduct of the parties to	 direct	 theTribunal  to  state further facts so that  we  may  properlyexercise our own advisory jurisdiction."This  Court  pointed out that the High	Court  exceeded	 itsjurisdiction  under s. 66(4) of the Indian  Income-tax	Act.It was observed:       "  If the question actually referred does  not  bringout  clearly  the real issue between the parties,  the	HighCourt  may reframe the question so that the matter  actuallyagitated  before the Tribunal may be raised before the	HighCourt.	But s. 66(4) does not enable the High Court to raisea  new	question  of law which does not	 arise	out  of	 theTribunal's order and direct the Tribunal to investigate	 newor  further facts necessary to determine this  new  questionwhich had not been referred to it under s. 66(1) or s. 66(2)and direct the Tribunal to submit a supplementary  statementof the case."It  was	 also pointed out that the facts  admitted  and/  orfound  by the Tribunal could alone be the foundation of	 thequestion  of  law which might be said to arise	out  of	 theTribunal's  order.   The  case thus set two  limits  to	 thejurisdiction of the High Court under s. 66(4), and they werethat the advisory jurisdiction was confined (a) to the factson  the	 record	 and/or found by the Tribunal  and  (b)	 thequestion which    28218would  arise from the Tribunal's order.	 It was pointed	 outby  this  Court that it was not open to the  High  Court  toorder  a  fresh	 enquiry  into new  facts  with	 a  view  toamplifying  the record and further that it was	equally	 notopen  to the High Court to decide a question of	 law,  whichdid  not  arise	 out  of the  Tribunal's  order.   This	 wasillustrated  by	 comparing  the question as  framed  by	 theTribunal  with the question which the High Court desired  todecide.	   Whereas  the	 Tribunal  had	only  referred	 thequestion:       "  Whether  the receipt of the cheques  at  Bhavnagaramounted to receipt of sale proceeds in Bhavnagar ?",what the High Court intended deciding was:	 "  Whether  the posting of the cheques	 in  BritishIndia  at the request express or implied of  the  appellant,amounted to receipt of sale proceeds in British India ?"These were two totally different questions, and it was	heldthat  the  High-Court could not decide a  matter  which	 wasdifferent from that decided by the Tribunal, nor call for  astatement of the case bearing on this new matter.The  proposition laid down in the Jehangir Vakil Mills	case(1),  finds  support  from yet another case  of	 this  Courtdecided	  very	recently.   In	Kusumben  D.  Mahadevia	  v.Commissioner of Income-tax Bombay (2), it was observed:       "  In our opinion, the objection of the	assessee  iswell-founded.	The Tribunal did not address itself  to	 thequestion  whether  the	Concessions  Order  applied  to	 theassessee.   It decided the question of assessability on	 theshort ground that the income had not arisen in Baroda but inBritish	 India.	  That	aspect of the matter  has  not	beentouched	 by the Bombay High Court.  The latter has,  on	 theother hand, considered whether the Concessions Order appliesto  the	 assessee,  a matter not touched  by  the  Tribunal.Thus, though the result is the same so far as the assessmentis   concerned,	 the  grounds  of  decision   are   entirelydifferent.(1) [1960] 1 S.C.R. 249.(2) [1960] 3 S.C.R. 417,421.219Section 66 of the Income-tax Act which confers	jurisdictionupon  the High Court only permits a reference of a  questionof  law arising out of the order of the Tribunal.   It	doesnot  confer  jurisdiction  on the High	Court  to  decide  adifferent question of law not arising out of such order.  Itis  possible  that  the same question  of  law	may  involvedifferent  approaches for its solution, and the	 High  Courtmay amplify the question to take in all the approaches.	 Butthe  question  must still be the one which  was	 before	 theTribunal and was decided by it.	 It must not be an  entirelydifferent question which the Tribunal never considered."It follows from this that the enquiry in such cases must  beto  see whether the question decided by the Tribunal  admitsthe consideration of the new point as an integral or even anincidental   part  thereof.   Even  so,	  the	supplementalstatement  which  the Tribunal is directed  to	submit	mustarise from the facts admitted and/or found by the  Tribunal,and  should not open the door to fresh evidence.   The	factthat  in Ogale Glass Works case (1), the Bombay	 High  Courthad asked for a supplemental statement in the same way as inthe  Jehangir Vakil Mills case (2 ), and this Court did	 notrule  out  the new matter, cannot help the assessee  in	 thepresent case, because the jurisdiction of the High Court wasnot  questioned, as it had been done in the  Jehangir  VakilMills  case,  or has been done here.  We have  thus  to	 seewhether	 in  this case the question which  was	decided	 andwhich has been referred to the High Court admits the  returnof  the	 case  for a supplemental  statement  on  the  linesindicated by the High Court in the order under appeal.At the very start, one notices a difference in the  questionof  law in this case and the Ogale Glass Works case (3),  onthe one hand, and the question of law in the Jehangir  VakilMills case (2), on the other.  In the former two cases,	 thequestion  is very wide, while in the latter it is  extremelynarrow.	  This	can be Been by placing the  three  questionsside by side as below :(1)  I.	 Tax  Reference No. 19 of 1949 of the Bombay  H.  C.decided on September 17, 1951.(2) [1960] 1 S.C.R. 249.(3) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 185.220Jehangir Vakil Mills case	  " Whether the receipt				  of the cheques in Bhav-				  nagar amounted to receipt				  of the sale proceeds in				  Bhavnagar ?"Ogale Glass Works case		  " Whether on the facts				  of the case, income,				  profits and gains in				  respect of sales made				  to the Government of				  India was received in				  British India within				  the meaning of Section				  4(1)(a) of the Act ?"This case			  "Whether on the facts				   and circumstances of				   the case the profits				   and gains in respect of				   the sales made to the				   Government of India				   were received by the				   assessee in taxable				   territories ?"It  is thus quite plain that the question as framed in	thiscase  can  include  an enquiry into whether  there  was	 anyrequest, express or implied, that the amount of the bills bepaid  by cheques so as to bring the matter within the  dictaof  this Court in the Ogale Glass Works case (2) or  JagdishMills case (3).	 The first limit to the jurisdiction of	 theHigh  Court as laid down by this Court is thus not  exceededby the High Court in exercising its powers under s. 66(4) ofthe Income-tax Act.  The question is wide enough to  includethe  alternative  line	of  approach that  if  there  was  arequest,  express or implied, to send the amount  due  underthe  bills by cheque, the post office would be the agent  ofthe  assessee,	and the income was received in	the  taxableterritory when the cheques were posted.(1) [1960] 1 S.C.R. 249.(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 185.(3) [1960] 1 S.C.R. 236.221The next question is whether the High Court has transgressedthe second limitation implicit is s. 66(4), that is to	say,that  the  question  must arise out of	the  facts  admittedand/or	found by the Tribunal.	The High Court has  observedthat,      ".........  it  would be necessary for  the  AppellateTribunal to find inter alia whether the cheques were sent tothe assessee firm by post or by hand and what directions, ifany,  bad the assessee-firm given to the Department in	thatmatter."If  the Tribunal has to make a fresh enquiry leading to	 theadmission  of  fresh  evidence	on  the	 record,  then	thisdirection  offends against the ruling of this Court  in	 theJehangir  Vakil Mills case (1).	 If, however, the  directionbe  interpreted	 to  mean that the Tribunal  in	 giving	 thefinding	 must  confine itself to the facts  admitted  and/orfound by it, the direction cannot be described as in  excessof  the jurisdiction of the High Court.	 It would have	beenbetter	if the High Court had given directions	confined  tothe  record  of the case before the Tribunal;  but,  in	 theabsence	 of  anything expressly to the contrary,  we  cannotbold that the direction would lead inevitably to the  admit-ting of fresh evidence.	 This, at least, now cannot be done,since the Jehangir Vakil Mills case (1), has prohibited	 theadmission  of fresh evidence.  In our opinion,	the  presentcase  does  not fall within the rule in the  Jehangir  VakilMills case (1), and is distinguishable.In  the	 result,  the appeal fails, and	 is  dismissed	withcosts.			Appeal dismissed.(1) [1960] 1 S.C.R. 249.222