PETITIONER:INDIAN COPPER CORPORATION LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BIHAR AND OTHERS.DATE OF JUDGMENT:07/11/1960BENCH:AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALABENCH:AYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALADAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR  347		  1961 SCR  (2) 276 CITATOR INFO : F	    1964 SC 569	 (9) F	    1965 SC 161	 (3,4,5) RF	    1966 SC 376	 (6) APL	    1970 SC 306	 (2,8,9)ACT:Sales  Tax--"  Explanation Sales "--Sale in  one  State	 butdelivery   outside--Consumption	 not  in  State	  of   firstdestination--Whether	 "outside"   sale--Constitution	  ofIndia Art. 286(1)(a)--Bihar Sales  Tax Act, 1947 (Bihar	 XIXof 1947),  ss. 2(g) and 33.HEADNOTE:The appellant effected sales during the period 26-1-1950  to31-3-1950,  whereunder the property in the goods  passed  inthe  State of Bihar but delivery was effected outside  Biharfor  consumption outside Bihar.	 In some of these sales	 thegoods  were delivered in the State of first destination	 forconsumption therein whilst in other cases the goods were notfor   consumption  in  the  State  of  first   delivery	  ofdestination.   The  appellant  contended  that	both   thesecategories of sale were exempt from tax under Art. 286(1)(a)as they were outside sales.Held  (per Hidayatullah, Das Gupta and Rajagopala  Ayyangar,JJ.)  that  the sales where delivery in the State  of  firstdestination  was for consumption therein, were	outside	 theState of Bihar within the Explanation to Art. 286(1)(a)	 andBihar  could not tax them, but the sales where	delivery  inthe  State  of	first destination was  not  for	 consumptiontherein	 were  not  " Explanation Sales "  and	were  not  "outside	 "  sales  and	Bihar could  tax  them.	  Where	 theproperty  in the goods passed within the State as  a  directresult of the sale the sale was not an " outside " sale	 forthe  purpose  of Art. 286(1)(a) unless it  fell	 within	 theExplanation.   In the first category of sales the  appellantwas entitled to the. exemption and it was not necessary	 forit to prove that the goods delivered for consumption in	 theState of first destination were actually consumed therein.The  State of Bombay v. United Motors (India)  Ltd.,  [1953]S.C.R. 1060 and Bengal Immunity Company Ltd. v. The State ofBihar, [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603, referred to.Burmah Shell Oil Storage & Distributing Co. of India Ltd. v.The  Commercial Tax Officer, C. A. No. 751 of 57 and  C.  A.No. 10 of 1958 (Unreported), relied on.Per  S. K. Das and Shah, Jj.--Section 33 introduced  in	 theBihar  Sales Tax Act by the Adaptation of Laws Order,  1951,engrafted  the same restrictions on the taxing power of	 theState  on the pre-Constitution statutes as were	 imposed  byArt.   286   upon   post-Constitution	statutes.    Section33(1)(a)(1)  of	 the Act took away only the power to  tax  "Explanation  Sales  "  but  not the  power  to	tax  "	non-Explanation  Sales  ".	A  sale	 in  which  goods  had	beendelivered outside Bihar, but not as a direct result of			    277the sale or not for the purpose of consumption in the  Stateof  first delivery was not covered by the Explanation,	andthe  right to tax the sale, if it arose otherwise under	 theAct, was not impaired by S. 33(1)(a)(i).JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 210 of 1959.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJanuary 16, 1958, of the Patna High Court in Mis.   Judicialcase No. 156 of 1957.B.   C. Ghose and P. K. Chatterjee, for the Appellant.S.   P. Varma, for Respondents Nos.  1 to 5.R.   C. Dutta, for Respondents Nos. 6 to 20.1960.	November 7. The Judgment of Hidayatullah, Das  Guptaand  Ayyangar, JJ., was delivered by Ayyangar, J., and	thatof S. K. Das and Shah, JJ., was delivered by Shah, J.AYYANGAR.  J.-The sole question which arises in this appeal,which  comes by way of special leave is as to whether  salesunder which goods were delivered outside the State of  Biharfor  the purpose of consumption but not within the State  offirst  delivery	 or first destination, are exempt  from	 thelevy  of  sales-tax  by the Bihar State by  virtue  of	Art.286(1)(a) of the Constitution as it stood before the  recentamendment.The India Copper Corporation Ltd. (referred to hereafter  asthe  assessee-company)	carries on business  in	 copper	 andvarious	 other	materials  and mineral pro.  ducts  and	 theoffice	of  its	 General  Manager  is  in  the	district  ofSinghbhum  in Bihar.  The period covered by  the  assessmentnow  in dispute is January 26, 1950 to March 31, 1950.	 Thenormal practice of the assessee-company was to deposit	sumsof money from time to time provisionally towards payment  ofsales-tax  in advance and have the amount  finally  adjustedafter  the completion of the assessment of each	 year.	 Theassessee-company  followed this practice in respect  of	 theamount of sales-tax due by it for the year 1949-50.  For thefinancial  year	 April	1,  1949  to  March  31,  1950,	 theSuperintendent of Sales-tax, Singhbhum,278computed the tax liability of the company in the sum of	 Rs.3,60,703-4-0  by  an  order  of	 assessment  dated  November13,1950,  and the company made payment of the amount due  byit  beyond the sums already paid.  It would be noticed	thatthis  financial	 year comprised two periods-(1)	 before	 theConstitution,  viz., April 1, 1949 to January 25, 1950,	 and(2)  the post-Constitution period from January 26,  1950  toMarch 31, 1950.	 There is now no controversy as regards	 thesales-tax  payable in respect of sales effected	 during	 thepre-Constitution   period.   The  assessee-company   howeverraised	a dispute that in respect of  the  post-Constitutionperiod, it was not liable to pay any sales-tax in respect ofsales  to  buyers, under which though the  property  in	 thegoods  passed  within the State, delivery of the  goods	 waseffected outside the State of Bihar for consumption  outsidethat State on the ground that such sales were exempted	fromtax  by Art. 286(1)(a) of the Constitution as it  originallystood.	It addressed a formal letter to the Commissioner  ofCommercial  Taxes, Bihar, on December 30, 1952, making	thisdemand enclosing a statement showing full particulars of thegoods sold, the bill numbers, the date and the amount  etc.,to  enable  the	 refund	 claimed  to  be  calculated.	 Theassessee-company  followed  it up by a formal  petition	 forreview	of the assessment order by filing a  revised  returnunder  s. 12(2) of the Bihar Sales-tax Act together with  anapplication   for  refund.   The  departmental	 authoritiesrejected  these applications by order dated July  20,  1953.Further proceedings before the department by way of revisionetc.  failed  to secure to the assessee-company	 the  reliefwhich  it  claimed and thereafter it  filed  an	 applicationunder Arts. 226 and 227 of the Constitution before the	HighCourt of Patna praying for the issue of a writ to quash	 theorder of assessment dated November 30, 1950, and the  ordersrejecting  the prayers for review, reassessment	 and  refundand  for  a  direction to the  departmental  authorities  torefund the sum realised by them in so far as the tax relatedto  sales as a result of which goods were delivered  outsidethe State of Bihar.			    279The learned Judges of the High Court held that the order  ofthe  Superintendent of Sales-tax, Singhbhum, dated  November13, 1950, should be set aside and that the matter should  goback to the Superintendent to make a reassessment  accordingto  law	 for  the  post	 Constitution  period.	 A   furtherdirection  was added requiring the respondent to  refund  tothe  assessee so much of the tax as had been paid in  excessof the amount of reassessment to be made by the	 Superinten-dent  in accordance with the law as laid down by the  Court.In formulating the law applicable, the learned Judges drew adistinction between sales as a direct result of which  goodswere  delivered	 in a State outside the State of  Bihar	 andconsumed  in that State and those cases in which  the  goodsthus  delivered,  were not consumed in the  State  of  firstdestination  but  were re-exported from the State  of  firstdestination  to	 other	States.	 They held  that  the  firstcategory  of sales were covered by the Explanation  to	Art.286 (1)(a) of the Constitution and were " inside " the Stateof first delivery and consequently " outside " the State  ofBihar within the meaning of the Article and therefore exemptfrom  tax  by the Bihar State.	In regard, however,  to	 thesecond	category  of sales, it was held that they  were	 notwithin	the  Explanation  and  were  therefore	outside	 theconstitutional exemption under Art. 286(1)(a).The   assessee-company	 not  being  satisfied,	  filed	  anapplication  to the High Court for a Certificate of  fitnessunder Arts. 132 and 133 of the Constitution, but this havingbeen  rejected, they applied to and obtained  special  leavefrom this Court under Art. 136 of the Constitution and	thatis how the appeal is now before us.Three  points  were  urged before us by	 Mr.  B.  C.  Ghose,learned	 Counsel  for the appellants: (1) that on  a  properconstruction  of Art. 286(1)(a) and the Explanation  thereto(as  it	 stood	before	the  Article  was  amended  by	 theConstitution  Sixth  Amendment Act, 1956) every	 sale  as  adirect result of which goods were delivered for	 consumptionoutside	 the State, was not within the taxing power  of	 theState in which the280goods  were at the time of the sale, and ,in which  propertypassed	as  a  result thereof, and that	 it  was  immaterialwhether	 the delivery was for the purpose of consumption  inthe  State of first destination or whether the	delivery  insuch  State was not for the purpose of	consumption  thereinbut,  for re-export to other States, (2) that even  if	Art.286(1)(a) exempted only sales in which as a direct result ofthe  sale  the	goods  were delivered  for  the	 purpose  ofconsumption  in	 the  State of	first  destination,  on	 thepleadings  and the evidence before the Court  the  assessee-company must be taken to have established that all the saleseffected by it and in regard to which exemption from paymentof  tax	 was claimed, conformed to this requirement,  (3)  anarrower submission, that even it be that to fall within theExplanation  the  delivery  has to be  for  the	 Purpose  ofconsumption  in the State of first destination, the  learnedJudges	of the High Court erred in requiring  the  assessee-company	 to prove not merely that the goods  were  deliveredfor the purpose of consumption but further that the goods sodelivered were actually consumed within that State.We shall now deal with these points in that order.   Article286(1)(a)   together   with   the   Explanation	  on   whoseconstruction the first point depends ran in these terms:"  Article  286(1).   No law of a  State  shall	 impose,  orauthorise  the imposition of, a tax on the sale or  purchaseof goods where such sale or purchase takes place-(a) outside the State; or(b)...............................................................Explanation.-For  the purposes of sub-clause (a) a  sale  orpurchase shall be deemed to have taken place in the State inwhich  the  goods have actually been delivered as  a  directresult	of  such  sale	or  purchase  for  the	purpose	  ofconsumption  in	 that State, notwithstanding the  fact	thatunder the general law relating to sale of goods the propertyin  the goods has by reason of such sale or purchase  passedin another State."The scope and the purpose of this Explanation was281discussed and explained by this Court in The State of Bombayv.  Unitea Motors (India) Ltd. (1) and it is the passage  inthis  judgment extracted below on which reliance was  placedby the learned Counsel in support of his submission:"..............	 The  authors  of the  Constitution  had  todevise a formula of restrictions to be imposed on the State-power  of  taxing sales or purchases  involving	 inter-Stateelements  which	 would	avoid the  doubts  and	difficultiesarising	 out  of  the imposition of sales-tax  on  the	sametransaction  by	 several  Provincial  Legislatures  in	 thecountry	 before the commencement of the Constitution.	Thisthey did by enacting clause (1) (a) with the Explanation andclause	(2)  of Article 286.  Clause  (1)(a)  prohibits	 thetaxation of all sales or purchases which take place  outsidethe  State  but a localised sale is a  troublesome  concept,for, a sale is a composite transaction involving as it	doesseveral	 elements  such as agreement to	 sell,	transfer  ofownership,  payment of the price, delivery of the goods	 andso    forth,   which   may   take   place    at	   differentplaces.	 ............  To  solve the  difficulty  an  easilyapplicable test for determining what is an outside sale	 hadto  be	formulated, and that is what, in  our  opinion,	 theExplanation  was intended to do.  It provides by means of  alegal  fiction	that the State in which the  goods  sold  orpurchased are actually delivered for consumption therein  isthe State in which the sale or purchase is to be  consideredto  have taken place, notwithstanding the property  in	suchgoods passed in another State ...... An " outside " sale  orpurchase  is explained by defining what is an  inside  sale,and  why  actual delivery and consumption in the  State	 aremade the determining factors in locating a sale or  purchasewill  presently appear.	 The test of sufficient	 territorialnexus  was  thus  replaced  by a  simpler  and	more  easilyworkable  test:	 Are  the goods actually  delivered  in	 thetaxing State, as a direct result of a sale or purchase,	 forthe  purpose  of consumption therein ? Then,  such  sale  orpurchase shall be deemed to have taken place(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 1069, 108136282in  that  State and outside all other  States.	 The  latterStates are prohibited from taxing the sale or purchase;	 theformer	alone is left free to do go.  Multiple	taxation  ofthe  same  transaction	by different  States  is  also	thusavoided."It  might be mentioned that this portion of the judgment  isunaffected by the dissent expressed in the later decision inThe Bengal Immunity Company Ltd. v. The State of Bihar	(1).The  argument based upon this passage was broadly  on  theselines:	Article 286 (1)(a) imposes a ban on the	 legislativepower to levy a tax on sales which are outside " the  taxingState.	 What  sales  are " outside is not  easy  to  decidebecause	 that  depends upon " the situs " of a	sale,  whichcannot,	 in  most cases, be located in any  one	 place	withcertainty-being	 dependent  on a variety  of  factors  whichmight  or might not converge.  The Constitution	 makers	 didnot  directly  define what was meant by a ,sale that  was  "outside	 the  State  "	but achieved  the  same	 purpose  byexplaining an " inside " sale with the result that what	 wasnot  an	 " inside " sale should be held	 to  bean  ,outside"sale.	It  must  however be pointed out  that	it  was	 notdisputed that the terms of the " Explanation " would not  besatisfied  unless  the	delivery  was  for  the	 purpose  ofconsumption therein, i.e. in the State of first destination,If the terms of the Explanation were satisfied, the State of"  delivery.  cum-consumption  ",  (to	coin  a	  convenientexpression  to	designate  the	State  in  which  goods	 aredelivered as a direct result of the sale for the purpose  ofconsumption  therein), used in the Explanation,	 would	havepower  to tax the sale as being one fictionally "  inside  "it. In such an event all the other States in India,  barringthat State would be prevented from taxing that sale  becausethe  sale would be " outside " those States.  This  however,it  was	 urged,	 would	not exhaust  the  operation  of	 theExplanation, but further that the Explanation was exhaustiveof what the Constitution makers conceived to be a sale whichalone  may be the subject of tax by a State.  The  deductionlearned	 Counsel  made from these premises was	twofold	 (1)that(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 603.			    283in  cases  where goods were as a direct result of  the	saledelivered  outside  the State of Bihar for  the	 purpose  ofconsumption   in  the  State  of  first	  destination,	 theconditions  of the Explanation were satisfied and the  salesbeing  " outside " the State of Bihar could not be taxed  bythat  State.   So  far there is no dispute  and	 indeed	 thelearned	 Judges of the High Court have, subject to a  matterof  detail to which reference will be made  later,  acceptedthe  contention of the assessee. (2) a further	consequence,that in cases where goods were delivered as a result of	 thesale outside the State of Bihar, but not for the purpose  ofconsumption in such State of first destination, the terms ofthe Explanation were no doubt not satisfied and consequentlythe,  sale was not inside such State of delivery and  indeednot  " inside " any State in India within  the	Explanation,but  that  such sales also must be held to be  "  outside  "every State in India within Art. 286 (1)(a).The   learned  Judges  of  the	High  Court  repelled	thiscontention  and, in our opinion, correctly.  The passage  inthe  judgment  of the United Motors case  extracted  earlierdealt  with Explanation sales and with none else.  When	 theterms of the Explanation were satisfied such sales were by afiction	 deemed to be " inside " the State of  delivery-cum-consumption and therefore " outside " all other States.	  Insuch  cases therefore, only the State " inside "  which	 thesale  is deemed to take place by virtue of the	Explanation,is exempt from the ban imposed by Art. 286(1)(a).  All otherStates	would  be  subject to that ban in  respect  of	suchsales.The  learned Chief Justice however did not, in	the  passageextracted, deal with the case of sales which did not satisfythe  terms of the Explanation.	The situs of what  might  betermed	 1  non-Explanation'  sales  has  therefore  to	  bedetermined  independently of the terms of  the	Explanation.Such  sales would be exempt from tax only if the  sale	tookplace " outside the State but not otherwise.The next question is, does a sale take place " outside " theState, where as a result of the contract of284sale,  the  property in the goods passes  to  the  purchaserwithin the State; in other words, is a sale completed	 bythe  passing  of property within the State not "  inside"  aState,	for the more reason that as a direct result  of	 thesale the goods are delivered outside the State.	  The answerdepends	 on  the meaning to be attributed to the words	"  asale  or purchase which has taken place " outside the  Stateoccurring  in  the body of Art. 286 (1).  The  expression  "outside	 the State " is capable of being understood in	moresenses	than one.  It could be understood  as  comprehendingcases  where  no element or ingredient which  constitutes  asale  takes  place  within  the State;	in  other  words  asapplying  solely  to  those  cases  where  there  exists  noterritorial nexus between the State imposing the tax and thesale.	Obviously, this could not have been intended  to  beincorporated  in Art. 286(1) because the tax in	 such  caseswould  be  beyond the legislative power of the	State  underEntry  54  of  the  State List read with  Art.	246  of	 theConstitution.	The expression " outside " has therefore  tobe  understood not as a sale so " outside " as not  to	haveany territorial connection between the State in question andthe  sale,  but	 in a somewhat	narrower  sense.   The	realdifficulty arises in ascertaining the precise content of thenarrower  sense in which the word is used as meaning a	salein  substance " outside " the State, though there  might  besome elements of the sale which if the exemption under	Art.286(1)(a)  were not enacted, would enable a State to levy  atax  on	 the  sale  on the ground that	it  was	 within	 thelegislative  power  of the State under Art.  246  read	withEntry 54.As  already pointed out, the situs of a sale is not easy  todetermine  and several factors which constitute a  completedtransaction of sale including the delivery of the goods, layclaim  to  be  considered  as  in  themselves	constitutingsufficient   next   to	justify	 their	being	treated	  asdetermining  the  locus of a sale.  Thus, merely by  way  ofillustration,  the place where the goods are at the time  ofthe  contract of sale, the place where the contract of	saleis  concluded,	the place where the property  in  the  goodspasses and that285in which the delivery takes place compete for recognition asconstituting the locus of a sale.  Before the  Constitution,these  and other similar factors were treated  as  affordingsufficient  territorial	 connection to endow  the  State  inwhich any of the events occurred with legislative competenceto tax the sale.  This led to a multiplicity of the taxationof  the same transaction of sale by a plurality	 of  States,with  the  result that the consumer was hard hit  and  tradeitself,	 and national economy suffered in the  process.	  Ithas  been  pointed out that Art. 286(1)(a) was	designed  tocounteract that state of affairs.If a single State was designed to have the power to tax	 anyparticular transaction of sale, the question that next fallsto  be	considered  is the determination of  that  State  inregard	to  which it could be predicated that  the  sale  inquestion  was not " outside " that State or in other  words,the determination of the particular State in regard to whichit  could be said that the sale was " inside "	that  State.The key to the problem is afforded by two indications in theArticle	 itself:  (1) the opening words	 of  Article  286(1)which  speak of a sale or purchase taking place and (2)	 thenon-obstante  clause in the Explanation which refers to	 thegeneral law relating to " sale of goods under which propertyin the goods has, by reason of such sale or purchase, passedin  another State." These two together indicate that  it  isthe passing of property within the State that is intended tobe fastened on, for the purpose of determining, whether	 thesale in question is " inside " or " outside " the State, andtherefore,  subject to the operation of the " Explanation  "that State in which property passes would be the only  Statewhich  would have the power to levy a tax on the  sale.	  Aswas explained in the recent decision of this Court in BurmahShell Oil Storage & Distributing Co., of India, Ltd. v.	 TheCommercial Tax Officer (1) :"  By  sale  here (Art. 286(1)(a) )  is	 meant	a  completedtransaction by which property in the goods passes.   Beforethe property in the goods passes, the contract(1)  C.A. 751 of 1957 & C.A. 10 of 1958 (Unreported).286of sale is only executory, and the buyer has only a chose inaction................. The Constitution thinks in terms  ofa completed sale by the passing of property and not in termsof an executory contract for the sale of goods."Notwithstanding	 that is not an " outside " sale, the  powerof  the State to tax might be negatived by the operation  ofthe Explanation which by its non-obstante clause-shifts	 thesitus  of  the	sale and renders the  sale  transaction	 onewithin the delivery-cum-consumption State, i.e. as the Statein which the sale transaction must be deemed to take  place.Where  the terms of the Explanation are satisfied, the	saletransaction  will,  by	a legal fiction created	 by  it,  bedeemed	to  take place "inside" the State  of  delivery	 andtherefore  "  outside  " the State  in	which  the  propertypasses.	 The conclusion reached therefore is that where	 theproperty  in  the goods passes within a State  as  a  directresult of the sale, the sale transaction is not outside	 theState  for  the	 purpose  of  Art.  286(1)(a),	unless	 theExplanation  operates.	We need also add that the  power  ofthe  State  to impose the tax might still not  be  availableunless	the  transaction in question is	 unaffected  by	 theother bans imposed under sub-cl. (1)(b), (2) and (3) of Art.286.   The submission therefore of learned Counsel  for	 theappellants,  that  in respect of non-Explanation  sales	 theState of Bihar has no power to levy a tax by reason of	suchsales being 'outside " the State within Art. 286(1)(a)	mustbe rejected.The  second contention urged by the learned Counsel for	 theappellant  was that even assuming he was wrong on the  firstpoint, all the sales by the assessee-company fell within theterms of the Explanation to Art. 286(1)(a) being sales as  adirect	result	of  which  the	goods  were  delivered	 forconsumption in the State of first destination, and that	 thelearned	  Judges  of  the  High	 Court	were  in  error	  inconsidering, that some of the sales did not conform to	thisrequirement.  In support of this submission learned  counseldrew our attention to two matters.  He first referred us  tothe application dated December 30, 1952 made on behalf287of  the assessee-company to the Commissioner  of  CommercialTaxes, Bihar, Patna in which the claim for refund of the taxpaid was rested on the following ground :After getting out that the tax on sales effected between theperiod January 26, 1950 to March 31, 1950 was not assessableby  virtue of Art. 286 of the Constitution, the	 applicationstated:	 " Total sales of raw materials of copper and  brasssheet  and circles sold by us and despatched  under  railwayreceipts  for  buyers' consumption are	as  follows".	Thenfollowed  the sales effected and the tax paid in respect  ofthe  sales.  The claim in this form was annexed to and	madepart  of the petition to the High Court under Art.  226	 and227 of the Constitution and in paragraph 9 of the  petition,this  letter  was  referred  to	 and  a	 copy  thereof	 wasincorporated and marked as 1A.	In this paragraph which	 wasthe other matter relied on the claim for refund was said  tobe  "  on  sales  made to buyers  outside  Bihar  State	 forconsumption ". Learned Counsel strongly pressed upon us thatparagraph  9 and the annexure had clearly asserted that	 thesales  which  were  the, subject of  the  claim	 for  refundinvolved a delivery of the goods outside the State of  Biharfor  consumption in the State of first destination  and	 theState  of  Bihar  not  having  filed  any  counter-affidavitchallenging  the correctness of these allegations, the	HighCourt  should  have held that the terms of  the	 Explanationwere  satisfied and should have ordered the refund  claimed.We  however consider that this submission is without  force.Neither	 in the claim put forward in Exh.  'A' nor in  para-graph  9 of the petition was any distinction  drawn  betweensales under which deliveries were effected outside the Stateof  Bihar  for the purpose of consumption in  the  State  offirst destination and those in which the deliveries  outsidethe State were effected for the purpose of consumption	not  in the Stateof first destination but in other States.  Infact,  this  was made clear in the later paragraphs  of	 thepetition  to the High Court from which it is  apparent	thatthe assessee-company  made a claim for tax exemption in288respect	 of sales in which the delivery took  place  outsidethe State of Bihar, whether the delivery was for the purposeof  consumption	 in  the  State	 of  first  destination	  orotherwise.   In paragraph 17(1) of the petition to the	HighCourt the assessee stated: " (the petitioner was not  liableto  pay	 tax on goods delivered outside the State  of  Biharwhich was also for consumption outside the State of Bihar ",and  again  in clause (iii) of the same paragraph  this	 wasrepeated:  "  the goods being outside the  State  of  Bihar,delivered  outside the State of Bihar and  consumed  outsidethe State of Bihar were not liable to sales-tax by the Stateof Bihar " and similarly in cl. (v) of the same paragraph  areference was made to " goods delivered outside the State ofBihar for consumption outside the State of Bihar ". The sameidea is emphasized in paragraph 19 also which contained	 theprayer of the petition.	 On these averments it is clear thatthe  claim  made  by the assessee was  that  to	 invoke	 theexemption contained in Art. 286(1)(a) it was sufficient thatthe goods were delivered outside the State of Bihar and thatit  was immaterial whether the delivery was for the  purposeof  consumption	 in  the  State	 of  first  destination	  orotherwise.  This involved the same argument which was raisedby the learned Counsel that we have dealt with earlier.	 Thelearned	 Judges	 of the High Court were therefore  right  indrawing	 a distinction between the two types of sales  whichwe have already indicated.The  last  point that was urged by the learned	Counsel	 wasthat the learned Judges of the High Court erred in requiringthe  assessee to prove that the goods delivered outside	 theState of Bihar were actually consumed in the State of  firstdestination  before the exemption from tax could be  availedof  In	their judgment now under appeal the  learned  Judgeshave stated:"The  petitioner would not be entitled to exemption  if	 thegoods  were not consumed in the State of  first	 destinationbut were re-exported from the State of first destination  toother States)'.Learned Counsel for the appellant complained that289under  the  Explanation to Art. 286(1)(a) there need  be  noproof  of actual consumption of the goods delivered  in	 theState  of  first destination but that  the  Explanation	 wassatisfied if the purpose of the delivery tinder the sale wasfor  consumption  in  that  State.  If	after  a  sale	thatsatisfied  that	 requirement,  viz.,  for  the	purpose	  ofconsumption  in	 the State of first destination,  the  buyerunder such a sale for his own purposes reexported the  goodsthat  was not a matter with which the seller  was  concernedand  would  not	 affect the character of  the  sale  as	 onefalling	 within the Explanation to Art. 286(1)(a).   LearnedCounsel therefore urged that the learned Judges of the	HighCourt  went  wrong  in requiring proof on the  part  of	 theassessee  that the goods were actually consumed	 within	 theState  of first delivery outside Bihar and that this was  anunwarranted addition to the requirements of the Explanation.We  consider  this submission well-founded  and	 indeed	 thelearned Counsel for the respondent did not dispute that	 theactual order of the High Court went beyond the terms of	 theExplanation to Art. 286(1)(a).	The order of the High  Courtwill, therefore, be modified by making it clear that if	 thegoods were as a direct result of the sale delivered  outsidethe  State  of Bihar for the purpose of consumption  in	 theState  of first delivery the assessee would be	entitled  toexemption of the sales-tax imposed and that it would not  benecessary  for the assessee to prove further that the  goodsso  delivered were actually consumed in the State  of  firstdestination.Subject	 to this modification, the appeal fails, but in	 thecircumstances  of  the	case there will be no  order  as  tocosts.SHAH  J.-We  agree  with  the  conclusion  of  Mr.   JusticeRajagopala  Ayyangar,  J., but because our approach  to	 thequestion  is  somewhat different, we propose to	 record	 ourreasons separately.The  Bihar Sales Tax Act, 1947, was enacted in	exercise  oflegislative   authority	  conferred  upon   the	  ProvincialLegislatures by entry 42 in List II read37290with s. 100(3) of the Government of India Act, 1935.  By  s.2(g)  of the Act, " sale " was defined (in so far as  it  ismaterial) as meaning any " transfer of property in goods forcash	or    deferred	  payment    or	   other    valuableconsideration.......  provided....... provided further	thatnotwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Indian Salesof Goods Act, 1930, the sale of any goods-(i)  which  are	 actually  in Bihar at	the  time  when,  inrespect thereof, the contract of sale as defined in s. 4  ofthat Act is made, or(ii) which  are	 produced or manufactured in  Bihar  by	 theproducer  or  manufacturer  thereof,  shall,  wherever	 thedelivery  or  contract of sale is made, be  deemed  for	 thepurposes of this Act to have taken place in Bihar."Under  entry 42 of List II of the Government of	 India	Act,1935,  the  Provincial	Legislatures  could  tax  sales	  byselecting  some	 fact  or  circumstance	 which	provided   aterritorial nexus with the taxing power of the State even ifthe  property in the goods sold passed outside the  Provinceor  the	 delivery  under the contract  of  sale	 took  placeoutside	 the Province.	Legislation taxing  sales  dependingsolely upon the existence of a nexus, such as production  ormanufacture  of the goods, or presence of the goods  in	 theProvince  at the date of the contract of sale,	between	 thesale  and  the	Legislating Province  could  competently  beenacted under the Government of India Act, 1935 see the TataIron and Steel Co., Ltd. v. The State of Bihar and PoppatlalShah v. The State of Madras (2).By Art. 286 of the Constitution, certain fetters were placedupon the legislative powers of the States as follows:Art. 286:-" (1) No law of a State shall impose, or authorisethe  imposition of, a tax on the sale or purchase  of  goodswhere such sale or purchase takes place-(a)  outside the State ; or(b)  in	 the  course  of the import of the  goods  into,  orexport of the goods out of, the territory of India.(1) [1958] S.C.R. 1335.(2) [1953] S.C.R. 677.291Explanation:For	 the  purposes	of sub-cl.  (a)	 a  sale  orpurchase shall be deemed to have taken place in the State inwhich  the  goods have actually been delivered as  a  directresult	of  such  sale	or  purchase  for  the	purpose	  ofconsumption  in	 that State notwithstanding  the  fact	thatunder the general law relating to sale of goods the propertyin  the goods has by reason of such sale or purchase  passedin another State.(2)  Except  in	 so far as Parliament may by  law  otherwiseprovide,  no law of a State shall impose, or  authorise	 theimposition  of, a tax on the sale or purchase of  any  goodswhere  such  sale or purchase takes place in the  course  ofinter-State trade or commerce :Provided that the President may by order direct that any taxon  the sale or purchase of goods which was  being  lawfullylevied by the Government of any State immediately before thecommencement  of  this Constitution  shall,  notwithstandingthat  the  imposition  of  such	 tax  is  contrary  to	 theprovisions  of this clause, continue to be levied until	 thethirty-first day of March, 1951.(3)  No law made by the Legislature of a State imposing,  orauthorising the imposition of, a tax on the sale or purchaseof any such goods as have been declared by Parliament by lawto  be	essential for the life of the community	 shall	haveeffect unless it has been reserved for the consideration  ofthe President and has received his assent."With  a view to impose restrictions on the taxing  power  ofthe  States under the pre-Constitution statutes,  amendmentswere made in these statutes by the Adaptation of Laws Order.By  the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1951, in the	Bihar  SalesTax  Act was incorporated with retrospective operation	fromJanuary 26, 1950, s. 33, which provided:"' (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act,-(a)  a	tax  on the sale or purchase of goods shall  not  beimposed under this Act-(i)  where  such  sale or purchase takes place	outside	 theState of Bihar ; or292(ii) where  such sale or purchase takes place in the  courseof import of the goods into, or export of the goods out	 of,the territory of India ;(b)  a	tax on the sale or purchase of any goods shall	not,after  the  31st day of March, 1951, be imposed	 where	suchsale  or purchase takes place in the course  of	 inter-Statetrade or commerce except in so far as Parliament may by	 lawotherwise provide;(2)  The  Explanation  to  cl.	(1)  of	 Art.  286  of	 theConstitution  shall apply for the interpretation of  sub-cl.(1) of cl. (a) of sub-s. (1)."By  this amendment, on the taxing power of the	Bihar  Statethe same restrictions were engrafted on the pre-Constitutionstatute as were imposed by Art. 286 of the Constitution uponpost-Constitution statutes.This court has held in the Bengal Immunity Co., Ltd. v.	 TheState  of  Bihar (1) that the operative	 provisions  of	 theseveral parts of Art. 286 namely cl. (1) (a), (1)(b) and (2)and cl. (3) were intended to deal with different topics	 andone could not be projected or read into another.  Therefore,by  the	 incorporation of s. 33 in the Bihar Sales  Tax	 Actread  with  Art. 286, notwithstanding the amplitude  of	 thepower  otherwise granted by the charging section  read	withthe  definition of " sale ", a cumulative fetter  of  tripledimension  was imposed upon the taxing power of	 the  State.The  Legislature of the Bihar State could not since  January26,  1950, levy a tax on sale of goods taking place  outsidethe  State or in the course of import of the goods into,  orexport	of  the goods out of the territory of India,  or  onsale  of any goods where such sale took place in the  courseof  inter-State	 trade or commerce.  By the  Explanation  toArt. 286(1)(a) which is incorporated by sub-s. (2) s. 33  ofthe  Bihar Sales Tax Act, a sale is deemed to take place  inthe  State  in which the goods are actually delivered  as  adirect result of such sale for the purpose of consumption inthat  State  even though under the law relating to  sale  ofgoods  the property in the goods has by reason of such	salepassed	in  another State.  In the State of  Bombay  v.	 TheUnited Motors (India) Ltd. (2), it was held that(1) [1955]  2 S.C.R. 603.(2) [1953]  S.C.R. 1069.293since  the enactment of Art. 286(1)(a), a sale described  inthe  Explanation  which may for convenience be called  an  "Explanation  sale " is taxable by that State alone in  whichthe goods sold are actually delivered as a direct result  ofsale  for  the purpose of consumption in  that	State.	 Theright to tax arises because the sale is deemed to take placein  that State and outside all other States and	 the  latterStates	are  prohibited from taxing the sale  ;	 the  formeralone is left free to do so.The  Bihar  Sales Tax Act enacted in exercise of  the  powerconferred by entry 42 of List II of the Government of  IndiaAct, 1935, upon the Provincial Legislatures is saved by Art.372 of the Constitution as existing law, but by the combinedoperation  of sub-ss. (1) and (2) of s. 33, the Bihar  Stateis  incompetent	 to  tax sales of goods	 in  the  course  ofimports into and exports out of the territory of India,	 andafter March 31, 1951, sales of goods in the course of  interState  trade or commerce.  In view of the exposition of	 thecontent	 of the Explanation to Art. 286(1)(a) by this  courtin  the	 United	 Motors case (1), the Bihar  State  is	alsoincompetent to tax " Explanation sales " where the goods aredelivered  in another State as a direct result of  the	salefor  consumption  in that State.  By this last ban,  to	 theextent provided by subs. (1)(a)(i) and sub-s. (2) of s.	 33,the  State of Bihar is deprived of its power to	 tax  sales;but  the  ban does not wholly extinguish the  power  of	 theState  to  tax sales relying upon a real  territorial  nexusbetween the sale and the State.	 In other words, by enactingthat a tax shall not be imposed under the Act when the	saletakes  place outside the State of Bihar in  s.	33(1)(a)(i),only  the  power to tax " Explanation sales " which  do	 nottake place within the State of Bihar in taken away, but	 notthe  power to tax " non-Explanation sales " in which  thoughunder  the general law of sale of goods the property  passesoutside the State, there exists between the taxing power  ofthe  State  and	 the sale a nexus  as  contemplated  by	 thedefinition of sale in s. 2(g).	If the sale is one in  whichthe goods have been delivered outside the State of(1) [1953]  S.C.R. 1069.294Bihar, but not as a direct result of the sale or not for thepurpose	 of consumption in the State of first delivery,	 thesale  will not be covered by the Explanation, and the  rightto tax the sale, if arising-otherwise under the Act  relyingupon  the  territorial nexus, will not be  impaired  by	 theprohibition imposed by cl. (1)(a)(i) of s. 33.	The right ofthe  State  of	Bihar  to tax a sale  relying  upon  a	realterritorial  nexus not being impaired by s. 33 of  the	Act,all  sales as defined by s. 2(g) of the Bihar Sales Tax	 Actare  liable  to	 be taxed, except those	 falling  within  s.33(1)(a)(ii), s. 33(2) and " Explanation sales " outside theState of Bihar.The   appellant	  company  carries  on	 the   business	  ofmanufacturing copper and other mineral products in the Stateof  Bihar.   It has its registered office and its  place  ofbusiness in the District of Singhbhum in the State of  Biharand is registered as a " dealer " under the Bihar Sales	 TaxAct,  1947.  The appellant company sent out its products  tovarious places in India in the year of assessment ending  onMarch  31, 1950 and has paid the tax assessed by  the  SalesTax  Officer.	The  appellant is now seeking  to  obtain  arefund of the tax paid for the period between January 26 andMarch  31, 1950, on the plea that the tax was paid  under  amisapprehension	  of  the  law.	  The  High  Court   in	  anapplication under Art. 226 of' the Constitution directed theSales  Tax authorities to refund so much of the tax  as	 wasnot  proved to have been paid in respect of sales  of  goodsdelivered  and consumed in the State of	 first	destination.On  the goods delivered and consumed in the State  of  firstdestination outside Bihar, the appellant could not be calledupon  to pay sales tax.	 That is undisputed.  The  appellantalso claimed that on the goods delivered for consumption  inthe State of first delivery outside Bihar, it was not liableto  pay	 sales tax, even if there was no evidence  to  provethat the goods were in fact consumed in such State.  In	 ourjudgment, the High Court was in error in directing that	 theexemption   provided  by  Art.	286(1)(a)  read	  with	 theExplanation  which was at the material time incorporated  bys. 33 in the Bihar Sales Tax Act by the Adaptation of			    295Laws  Order,  1951,  only  applied to  all  sales  of  goodsdelivered  and consumed in the State of	 first	destination.If   the  goods	 were  delivered  for  consumption,  it	  isimmaterial  whether they were in fact consumed in the  Statewhere  they were delivered.  The power of the State to	levysales  tax  relying upon the territorial nexus	between	 thetaxing	power  of the State and the sale,  is  impaired	 forreasons	 already  set  out  to the extent  to  which  it  isrestricted by the incorporation of Art. 286(1)(a)(i) and theExplanation thereto, in that Act.  Therefore, sales effectedon  or after January 26, 1950, where goods are as  a  directresult	 of  the  sale	delivered  in  another	 State	 forconsumption in that other State, are not liable to be taxed.The  directions issued by the High Court will  therefore  bemodified as follows:The  order of the Superintendent of Taxes is set aside.	  Heis directed to grant refund of tax paid in the light of thisjudgment.  The appellant will be entitled to exemption	frompayment	 of tax if the goods are, as a direct result of	 thesale,  delivered  in  another  State  for  the	purpose	  ofconsumption in that State.	      Appeal dismissed subject to modification.