PETITIONER:RAJES KANTA ROY	Vs.RESPONDENT:SANTI DEBIDATE OF JUDGMENT:19/11/1956BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1957 AIR  255		  1957 SCR   77ACT:Trust	deed-Construction-Vested  interest   or	  contingentinterest  -Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (IV of 1882),	 SS.19,  21-Attachable interest-Execution  of  decree-Compromisedecree Providing for a personal remedy and a  charge-Whetherpersonal remedy could be pursued in the first instance.78HEADNOTE:A  settlor  executed a deed of trust in respect of  all	 hisproperties whereby he made arrangements for the discharge ofhis  'debts  and for the devolution of the property  on	 hissons.  The provisions of the deed showed that (1)  specifiedlots of property were allotted to each of his two sons, (  )the  present income was to be applied for the  discharge  ofthe debts after payment of specified sums of money therefromby  way of monthly payments to the settlor and his sons	 and(3)  in	 the  event  of any of the  sons  dying	 before	 thetermination  of	 the  trust, his  interest  in	the  monthlypayments aforesaid was to devolve on his heirs.	 It was alsoprovided  that a house, L, included in the lots allotted  tothe elder son (appellant) was to be subject to the right  ofresidence of the second son, and his heirs until a  suitablehouse  was purchased by the appellant or his heirs and	madeover   to  him.	  Finally  it  was  provided  that  on	 theliquidation of the debts and after the death of the  settlorthe  trust was to come to an end and the respective lots  ofproperty  including  the  surplus  income  thereof  were  todevolve	 on  the appellant and his brother or  their  heirs.Some time after the execution of the deed the settlor  died.It  was contended for the appellant that under the terms  ofthe deed of trust his interest in the properties allotted tohim  was only contingent on the payment of the debts of	 thesettlor	 and  the  discharge of the  obligation	 to  providealternative  accommodation to his brother  and	consequentlyhis interest could not be attached in execution of a decree.Held,  that  the  appellant had a vested  interest  but	 theenjoyment  of the properties was restricted so long  as	 thedebts  were  not discharged, and as regards  the  house,  L,enjoyment  was further restricted to the extent that it	 wassubject	 to  the right of residence of his brother  and	 hisheirs	until	the  obligation	  to   provide	 alternativeaccommodation was discharged by the appellant or his heirs.Where  a  compromise  decree provides both  for	 a  personalremedy and a charge, the question whether the  decree-holdercan  pursue the personal remedy while reserving	 the  remedyunder  the  charge depends on the intention to	be  gatheredfrom the terms of the decree.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JUIRISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 35 of 1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and decree  datedMarch  10, 1952, of the Calcutta High Court in	appeal	fromthe Original Order No. 100 of 1950 arising out of the decreedated  July  18, 1950, of the Court  of	 Subordinate  Judge,Alipore, 2nd Court, in Miscellaneous Case No. 76 of 1949.C.   K.	  Daphtary,  Soliditor-General	for  India,  N.	  C.Chatterji and Sukumar Ghose, fOr the appellant.79Atul Chandra Gupta, S. C. Jana, N. C. Sen, Arun Kumar  Duttaand R.R. Biswas, for respondent No. 1.1956.  November 19.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyJAGANNADHADAS J.-This is an appeal by special leave  againstthe  judgment and decree of the High Court of  Calcutta	 andarises out of an application filed by the appellant under s.47 of the Code of Civil Procedure in the course of executionproceedings in the Second Court of the Subordinate Judge  atAlipore,  District 24-Parganas.	 The facts  leading  theretoare as follows.One   Ramani  Kanta  Roy  was  possessed   of	considerableproperties.   He had three sons, Rajes Kanta  Roy,  RabindraKanta  Roy and Ramendra Kanta Roy.  Rabindra died  childlessin the year 1938 leaving a widow, Santi Debi. ln 1934 Ramanicreated an endowment in respect of some of his properties infavour	of his family deity and appointed his three sons  asshebaits.  After the death of Rabindra his widow Santi Debi,instituted a suit against the other members of the family in1941 for a declaration that she, as the heir of her deceasedhusband, was entitled to function as a shebait in the  placeof  her	 husband.   The	 suit  terminated  in  a  compromiserecognizing  the  right	 of  Salnti  Debi  as  a  coshebait.Shortly thereafter, however, i.e., in the year 1944,  Ramaniand  his two sons, Rajes and Ramendra, filed a suit  againstSanti  Debi.  for  a declaration that  the  above  mentionedcompromise decree was null and void.  One of the grounds  onwhich the suit was based was that the marriage of Santi Debiwith  Rabindra was a nullity inasmuch as the  said  marriagewas  one between persons within prohibited degrees.   Duringthe  pendency  of that suit Ramani, the father,	 executed  aregistered trust deed in respect of his entire properties onJuly  26,  1945.   The	terms of  that	trust-deed  will  bereferred  to presently.	 The eldest of the sons, Rajes,	 wasappointed  thereunder  as  the	sole  trustee  to  hold	 theproperties  under  trust  subject  to  certain	powers	 andobligations.   After  the execution of this trust  deed	 thefather died, The exact date of his death does not80appear	on  the record.	 Some time thereafter the  suit	 wascompromised on December 3, 1946.  The material terms of thiscompromise   will  be  set  out	 presently.   By  the	saidcompromise Santi Debi gave up her rights under the  previouscompromise  decree  of 1941 and agreed to  receive  for	 hernatural life a monthly allowance of Rs. 475 payable from themonth  of  November, 1946.  It was one of the terms  of	 thecompromise  that  on default of payment Santi Debi  will  beentitled  to realise the same by means of execution  of	 thedecree.	 It appears that the monthly allowance as  aforesaidwas regularly paid up to the end of February, 1948, and thatthereafter  payment was defaulted.  Consequently Santi	Debifiled  an  application	for execution on July  8,  1949,  torealise	 the  arrears of her monthly allowance	from  March,1948, to July, 1949, amounting to Rs. 8,075 against both thebrothers,  Rajes and Ramendra.	Execution was asked  for  byway  of	 attachment and sale of	 immovable  properties,viz.,premises  No.  44/2, Lansdowne Road,  Ballygunge  P.S.,	 24-Parganas.  Rajes filecl an objection to the execution  unders.  47	of the Code of Civil Procedure on  various  grounds.Ramendra  has not filed, or joined in, any such	 applicationand has apparently not contested the execution.	 The presentcontest	 in both the courts below and here is  only  betweenRajes	and  Santi  Debi.   An	order  was  passed  by	 theSubordinate  Judge  over-ruling	 the  objections  raised  byRajes.	 An appeal was taken therefrom to the High Court  atCalcutta  which was dismissed by its judgment under  appeal.Hence  the present appeal in which Rajes is  the  appellant,while Santi Debi is the first respondent and Ramendra is thesecond respondent.The  two main objections to the execution proceedings  whichhave been urged before us are that-(1) Under the  compromisedecree	which is now sought to be put in  execution,  chargewas  created over certain properties for the due payment  ofthe monthly allowance and hence as a matter of	constructionof the decree, the personal remedy can be pursued only afterthe remedy by way of charge is exhausted,81(2)Under  the  terms  of  the deed of  trust  Rajes  has  noattachable interest in the properties sought to be proceededagainst.The first of the above contentions is raised with  referenceto  the	 terms of the compromise decree	 dated	December  3,1946, and is set out in para. 14 of the p 1 etition under s.47 of the Code of Civil.  Procedure as follows:"  That under the compromise decree in question the  decree-holder has relinquished all her right, title and interest inrespect	 of  all  the properties left by  Ramani  Kanta	 Roydeceased and she having agreed to realise her dues, if	any,out  of	 a particular property is not  entitled	 to  proceedagainst the properties sought to be attached simultaneously,keeping the said security alive."The material portion of the compromise decree dated December3, 1946, is as follows:"  (a) That the compromise decree in Suit No. 92 of 1941  ofthe  Hon'ble  High  Court of  Calcutta,	 Original  Side,  isdeclared  to be inoperative and set aside and the  defendantNo. 1 would be debarred from claiming right or relief in thesaid decree.(b)That the plaintiffs abovenamed agree to pay to  defendantNo.  1 for her natural life a monthly allowance of  Rs.	 475and  the said allowance is to be paid on and from the  monthof November, 1946.(c)That the said monthly allowance of Rs. 475 is to be	paidon  or before the 10th day of each succeeding month  and  incase  of failure to pay the said monthly allowance  of	fourconsecutive months, the defendant No. 1 will be entitled  torealise, the amount in default by means of execution of	 thedecree to be passed in terms of this petition of compromise.(d)That	 the properties mentioned in the schedule below	 arehereby	charged	 for  the due payment of  the  said  monthlyallowance  and	the defendant No. 1 will be  at	 liberty  torealise the amount in default against the properties chargedby execution of this decree.1182(e)That the defendant No. 1 will, at her option, be  furtherentitled to realise the amount in default by appointment  ofReceiver  for  execution  of this decree  over	the  chargedproperties.(j)That	 each of the terms stated above is  a  considerationfor the other terms.The   charge   above-mentioned	is  over   property   calledBharatkhali  property  consisting of a number  of  items  inRangpur Collectorate now in East Pakistan.Before	considering the objection raised under point No.  1,it is right to mention that a minor objection has been takenthat,  as  a fact, there is no executable decree  which	 canform  the  subject-matter of execution.	 It is	pointed	 outthat  cl.  (c) of the compromise petition is to	 the  effectthat "defendant No. 1 (the present respondent No. 1) will beentitled  to  realise  the amount in  default  by  means  ofexecution  of  the  decree to be passed	 in  terms  of	thispetition  of compromise" but that there is no formal  decreecarrying this out and directing that the plaintiffs therein,Rajes  and Ramendra, do pay to the first defendant  therein,Santi  Debi, the sum of Rs. 475 per month.  What appears  tohave  happened is as follows.  The petition  for  compromisewas  filed on December 3, 1946, with the prayer that  the  "terms  of this petition of compromise be recorded  and	thatthe title suit mentioned above as between the plaintiffs anddefendant No. 1 be disposed of in terms of this petition  ofcompromise  and the compromise be made a part of the  decreein  the	 same."	 Thereupon on the same	date  the  followingformal order was passed."  This	 suit coming on this day for final  disposal  it  isordered and decreed that the suit be and the same is  herebydecreed	 on compromise as against defendant No. 1. That	 thesolenama do form part of this decree."It  is true that a formal direction in terms of the  variousclauses of the compromise petition directing the  plaintiffsto pay the monthly allowance of Rs. 475			     83to the first defendant has not, in terms, been drawn up. Butthere  can  be no doubt that this was what was meant  to  beconveyed by the above mentioned formal order in so far as itis  relevant for the present purposes.	We  understand	thatthe  actual  decree in this case merely	 showing  that	"thesolenama  do form part of the decree " is according  to	 theusual  practice	 of courts in Bengal in all such  cases	 andthat  it  is  generally	 understood  to	 amount	 to  such  adirection though it is not so expressly set out.  We do	 notconsider it necessary to express opinion as to whether	thatis  a  correct practice.  But we do not think that  in	thiscase the execution is to be defeated on this ground.   Thereis  no indication in the judgment either of the	 SubordinateJudge  or  of the High Court that any such  point  has	beenraised before them.  We accordingly overrule this objection.As  regards  the  first	 of  the  main	points	raised	withreference  to the terms of the compromise decree, it is	 notdisputed  that cl. (c) does impose a personal obligation  onthe plaintiffs therein to pay to the first defendant thereina  monthly  allowance of Rs. 475 and  that,  therefore,	 thedecree-holder  is  entitled to a personal remedy.   What  isurged,	however, is that taking cls. (c) and  (d)  together,the  clear  intention is that when any default	occurs,	 thedecree-holder	has  to	 look  for  payment  first  to	 theproperties charged and that, it is only in the event of	 notbeing  able  to	 obtain satisfaction out  of  it,  that	 thepersonal  obligation can be enforced.  A number of cases  ofthe  Bombay High Court have been cited before us in  supportof  this  argument and it is urged that where  a  particularfund is indicated for-the payment of a debt and is  charged,the  courts should not construe an extra clause for  paymentsimpliciter  as giving a concurrent remedy but that in	suchcases the charged fund is primarily to be looked to.  It  isalso urged that in such cases it is inequitable to a low thepersonal remedy to be pursued in the first instance, or,  atany rate, unless the decree-holder gives up the charge.	 Ourattention  is  also  drawn to the fact	that  the  executionpetition itself under the column "Mode84in   which  the	 assistance  of	 the  Court   is   required"specifically states as follows:" Be it noted that at present the execution is not proceededagainst	 certain  immovable properties in  Eastern  Pakistanwhich are under charge for the present amount on account  ofarrear maintenance and also future maintenance due under thedecree	without	 prejudice  to her  rights  under  the	saiddecree.	  Decreeholder	reserves to herself all	 rights	 andreliefs	 as  are  not enforceable in Dominion  of  India  inrespect of the decree."It is pointed out that the decree-holder in terms desires topursue the personal remedy while reserving the remedy  underthe  charge.   In  the present case we do  not	consider  itnecessary  to deal with these Bombay decisions cited  beforeus  or with the above contention based thereon.	 For, it  isnot  disputed that where a compromise decree  provides	bothfor  a	personal  remedy and a charge,	the  whole  questiondepends	 on  the intention to be gathered from	the  variousterms  in  the	compromise  decree.   In  our  opinion,	 theconstruction  of the two relevant clauses and the  intentionto  be gathered therefrom in this case are quite clear.	  Itis true that in one sense, cls. (c), (d) and (e) of the com-promise	 indicate  certain  specified  properties  as  beingavailable  to the decree-holder for realisation of any	dueseither	by  pursuing  the charge or by	getting	 a  Receiverappointed  in  respect of the charged properties.   But	 thewording	 of the three clauses shows clearly that she is	 notobliged	 to  resort  to	 these two  remedies  in  the  firstinstance.   Clause (e) says that " the defendant No. I	willbe  entitled  to realise the amount in default by  means  ofexecution  of decree." Clause (d) says that " the  defendantNo.  I will be at liberty to realise the amount	 in  defaultagainst the properties charged." Clause (e) says that "	 thedefendant No. I will, at her option, be further entitled  torealise the amount in default by appointment of Receiver forexecution of this decree over the charged properties." It isquite  clear that cl. (c) gives her an unqualified right  toobtain payment of the monthly allowance from the plaintiffs.Clauses (d) and (e) give her a liberty or option to pursue85the  remedies specified therein.  There is nothing in  thesetwo clauses to limit, in any way, the unqualified right thatshe was given under cl. (c).  Our attention is drawn to	 thestatement  in  cl. (j) which says that " each of  the  termsstated is a consideration for the other terms." What exactlyis meant thereby is somewhat obscure.  But we are unable  tosee  how  that clause affects the intention  which,  in	 ourview,  has to be gathered by reading cls. (c), (d)  and	 (e)together.   We	are,  therefore, of  the  opinion  that	 thecontention raised to the effect that the personal remedy  isnot  available	in this case before exhausting	the  chargedproperties, is not sustainable.Now, coming to the second point, the contentions raised	 arethat, on a true construction of the terms of. the trust deedthe  interest  of  the judgment-debtor, Rajes,	(1)  in	 theproperties covered by the trust deed, and (2) in particular,in property No. 44/2, Lansdowne Road sought to be  attached,is  only a contingent one and hence not attachable.  That  amere contingent interest though transferable inter vivos  isnot  attachable	 is  well settled since	 the  Privy  Councildecision  in Pestonjee Bhicajee v. P. H. Anderson (1).	 Thequestion as to whether the interest of the  judgment-debtor,Rajes,	in  this case is vested or contingent,	is  one	 notaltogether  free from difficulty.  But it is well to  noticeat  the	 outset that this point has not been raised  in	 thepetition filed by the judgment-debtor, Rajes, under s. 47 ofthe  Code  of Civil Procedure.	What is	 stated	 therein  ismerely the following"Under	the said deed of trust, the judgment debtor  has  nointerest  in  the property except that of a trustee  and  assuch the decree holder cannot proceed for realisation of heralleged dues against the said property."The  objection in this form is obviously untenable  and	 hasnot been urged in any of the courts below.  Indeed, if underthe   trust  deed  the	judgment-debtor	 has  a	  beneficialinterest,  it is not disputed that such beneficial  interestwould be attachable provided it is a(1)  I.L.R. [1939] Bom. 36.86vested interest and not a contingent interest.	The judgmentof  the executing court, however, shows that what was  dealtwith  there  is the contention that the interest  under	 thetrust  deed  was a mere expectancy as opposed  to  a  vestedinterest.   The	 Court	held that  the	interest  which	 thejudgment-debtors  had in the property by virtue of the	deedof  trust was not a mere expectancy.  On appeal to the	HighCourt, none of the grounds set out in the appeal  memorandumthereto relates to this question.  The High Court,  however,dealt  with the matter on the footing that the	question  iswhether	 the interest of the judgment-debtor under the	deedof  trust is a vested as opposed to a  contingent  interest.It  does not appear to us that question in this form  shouldhave been allowed to be raised.	 Its determination may	welldepend	upon the question whether as a fact the	 contingencysuggested has disappeared by virtue of subsequent  ,-,vents.However,  since the point has been allowed to be raised	 andthe  decision of the High Court is given on the	 footing  ofthe matter being solely one of construction of the document,we proceed to consider it.The  main provision under which the two brothers, Rajes	 andRamendra,  get	any interest under the trust  deed  is	thatcontained  in sub-cls. (a) and (b) of cl. 12, which  are  asfollows:"  12.	On the liquidation of all the debts of	the  settlor(including  the	 debt, if any, that may be incurred  by	 thetrustee	 for payment of the settlor's debts) and  after	 hisdeath  this trust shall come to- an end and  the  propertiesdescribed in Schedule 'A' shall devolve as follows:-(a)  The properties being Lot I, Lot II, Lot III, and Lot IVdescribed  in  the  said  Schedule  'A'	 hereunder   writtenincluding  the surplus income thereof shall devolve  on	 thesaid Rajes Kanta Roy absolutely or if he be then dead,. thenthe  said properties shall devolve on his heirs then  livingabsolutely but subject to the provisions contained in clause(c) hereof regarding premises No. 44/2, Lansdowne Road87(b)  The  properties  being  Lot V described,  in  the	saidSchedule 'A' hereunder written including the surplus  incomethereof	 shall	be enjoyed by the said	Ramendra  Kanta	 Royduring	his  lifetime or if he be then dead  then  the	saidproperties  shall  devolve  on	his  son  or  sons  if	 anyabsolutely but if there be no son living at that time and ifthere be a grand-son (son's son) or grand-sons then on	suchgrand-son or grand-sons absolutely.They  show that Lots I to IV in Schedule A ultimately go  toRajes  and Lot V alone goes to Ramendra.  But  the  interestwhich  either of these is to get in the properties  allottedto each is expressed to be one which each will get after thetrust comes to an end.	Now, it is only after the  happeningof the two events, viz., (1) the discharge of all the  debtsspecified  in  the schedules (including the debts,  if	any,that  may  be  incurred by the trustee for  payment  of	 thesettlor's debts), and (2) the death of the settlor  himself,that the trust comes to an end and it is on the trust comingto an end that the sons get the properties allotted to them.It  was recognised in arguments before us that the death  ofthe settlor is not by any means an uncertain event and that,therefore,  this  involves no element of  contingency.	 Butwhat  was  urged is that the discharge of the  debts  is  anuncertain event in the sense that neither the factum nor thetime  of such discharge is one that can be  predicated	withany  certainty	and that since the interest  which  the	 twobrothers  take	is  to be only after  such  discharge  theirrespective interests therein are contingent.  It is  pointedout that the settlor was very particular about the  propertynot going into the hands of the two sons for their enjoymentas owners until after the debts are liquidated and that thisis  emphasised in various clauses of the trust deed.  It  isurged  that this clearly shows the intention of the  settlorto be that the discharge of the debts should be a  conditionprecedent  for	the vesting in them of any interest  in	 theproperties.  Thus el. 3 of the trust deed imposes a specificobligation on the trustee that " he shall pay88the  present existing just debts of the settlor."  Clause  5says  that " during the lifetime of the settlor and so	longas all the debts of the settlor be not paid off the  trusteeshall pay monthly and every month Rs. 1,000- to the settlor,Rs.  300/- to Rajes and Rs. 200/- to Ramendra." In cl. 6  itis  stated  that  "on the death of the	settlor	 before	 theliquidation of his debts the trustee shall pay to Rajes	 Rs.800/-  and  Rs. 700/- to Ramendra per month." By  virtue  ofthese  two  clauses  a sum of only Rs. 1,500/-	out  of	 theincome	is set aside for the benefit of the members  of	 thefamily and hence by implication the rest of the income is tobe applied towards discharge of the debts.  Clauses 8 and  9provide for payments out of the income in the event of deatheither	of  Rajes or of Ramendra before the  liquidation  ofdebts.	 Clause 10 provides for residence of the  family  aslong as debts are not fully paid off.  Clause 11  authorizesthe  trustee to sell, mortgage, or give a long lease of	 anyof  the properties for payment of the debts.  Clauses  12(a)and  (b) proceed on the assumption that the  surplus  income(after payments therefrom as provided) is to be	 accumulatedso  long  as  the  trust  continues,  i.e.,  debts  are	 notdischarged.    Quite   clearly,	  therefore,   during	 thesubsistence of the trust both the sons get only a portion ofthe income as specified above and do not get for  themselvesthe full benefit out of the-properties respectively allottedto the until the debts are completely discharged.  There  isno  doubt  that these terms show that the  settlor  attachedgreat  importance to the discharge of the debts becoming  anaccomplished fact before the two sons take the full  benefitby  way of revolution of the property and that in  order  tofacilitate the same he restricted his own enjoyment and thatof  his two sons to an aggregate limited sum of Rs.  1,500/-per  month out of the income (apart from a few	other  minormonthly	 payments).  But can it be said that their  interestin the property was made to depend on the event of the totaldischarge  of the debts and that the discharge of the  debtswas contemplated as an uncertain event.The determination of the question as, to whether an interestcreated by such is deed is vested or contingent89has  to	 be guided generally by	 the  principles  recognisedunder,ss.  19 and 21 of the Transfer of Property Act,  1882,and ss. 119 and 120 of the Indian Succession Act, 1925.	 Thelearned Judges of the High Court relied on illustration	 (v)to  s. 119 of the Indian Succession Act and the decision  inRanganatha Mudaliar v. A. Mohana Krishna Mudaliar (1).	 Thelearned Solicitor General appearing for the appellant beforeus has urged that there is no such inflexible rule of law asis  assumed  by the High Court, viz., that " in spite  of  aclause	requiring  payment  of	debts  before  the  propertyreaches	 the hands of the donee, the gift is a vested  one."He  drew  our attention to the fact that both s. 19  of	 theTransfer of Property Act and s. 119 of the Indian SuccessionAct clearly indicate that if "a contrary intention  appears"from the document that will prevail.He	has  also drawn	 ourattention to the case in Bernard v.	Mountague(2)	  inwhich it was held, on a construction of the  terms  of	 thetrust,	that  the  payment  of the  debts  was	a  conditionprecedent  to the vesting of the interest  devised  therein.How,  such  a matter, as the one before us,  is	 treated  inEnglish	 law  when  it arises, appears	from  the  followingpassages    in	 the   recognised    textbooks.	    Williamson  Executors  and Administrators(13th Ed.), Vol. 2,  at  p.658, states one of the two rules of construction to be	thatwhere  the bequest -is in terms immediate, and	the  paymentalone  postponed, the legacy is vested.	 He states a  numberof  exceptions	to  that rule and says the  rule  itself  isalways	subservient to the intentions of the  testator,	 andthat the exception may be found in operation in cases  wherethe  testator has shown a clear intention that the  legaciesshall  not vest till his debts are satisfied.	The  learnedSolicitor-General  relies  also on a  similar  passage	fromJarman	on  Wills  (8th Ed.), Vol.  II, at  p.	1390,  whichstates as follows:"So,  where a testator clearly expressed his intention	thatthe  benefits  given by his will should not  vest  till	 hisdebts were paid, the intention was carried.(1)  (1926) A.I.R. 1926 Madras 645.(2)  [1816] 1 Mer. 422 ; 35 E.R. 729.1290into execution, and the vesting as well as payment was	heldto be postponed."But  it is to be noticed that at p. 1373 in Jarman on  Wills(8th Ed.), Vol. 11, it is also stated as follows:"It  was at one period doubted whether a devise to a  personafter  payment of debts was not contingent until  the  debtswere paid; but it is now well-established that such a deviseconfers	 an  immediately  vested  interest,  the  words	  ofapparent  postponement being considered only as	 creating  acharge."Apart  from  any  seemingly technical  rules  which  may  begathered  from	English	 decisions and	text-books  on	thissubject,  there can be no doubt that the question is  reallyone of intention to be gathered from a comprehensive view ofall the terms of a document.  The learned  Solicitor-Generalfrankly admitted this, and also that a Court has to approachthe task of construction in such cases with a bias in favourof a vested interest unless the intention to the contrary isdefinite and clear.  It is, therefore, necessary to considerthe entire scheme of the deed of trust in the present  case,having	regard	to  the terms therein,	and  to	 gather	 theintention therefrom.By  the date the settlor executed the deed of trust  he	 hadhis   two   sons,  Rajes  and  Ramendra	 and   the   widoweddaughter-in-law, Santi Debi, the validity of whose  marriagehe  was	 disputing.  One of the main purposes of  the  trustdeed,  as appears from its preamble is to give the  propertyto  his	 two  surviving	 sons,	Rajes  and  Ramendra,  afterexcluding  his widowed daughter-in-law, Santi Debi,  againstwhom  he had developed prejudice on account of hers being  asagotra marriage.  An equally important purpose of the trustwas  the discharge of his debts.  For that purpose  he	madethe  following	arrangements. (1) The  entire  property	 wasconstituted  a	trust  for the discharge of  the  debts	 andthereby he divested himself entirely of any interest thereinor management thereof; (2) The properties were to be in	 themanagement of his eldest son, Rajes, as the trustee  thereofwith powers of alienation for, payment of debts; and (3) Theuse of the income for91the  sustenance	 of  himself and his  sons  was	 limited  tospecified  amounts thereof, viz., Rs. 1,500/-per  mensem  inorder  that  the  debts may  be	 methodically  and  speedilydischarged.   There is no evidence before us as to what	 thetotal  income  of the property at the time was	and  whetherthere would have been any substantial surplus available fromthe  income for the discharge of debts.	 But Sch.  A of	 thetrust	deed   shows  that  the	  properties   were   fairlyconsiderable and schedule B shows that the debts at the timewere  to  the tune of Rs. 2,62,169-8-0.	 Clause	 17  of	 thetrust deed values the properties at rupees five lacs for thepurposes of stamp duty and it may reasonably be assumed thatthe  value would have been substantially higher.  There	 canbe  no reasonable doubt that the settlor did  contem.  platethat,  on  a proper management of the property	and  with  ascheme	for  the  discharge of	debts,	there  would  emergesurplus	 income by the date of termination of  trust.	Thisappears from el. 12(a) of the trust deed which	specificallyprovides for the disposal of the surplus income of each	 lotwhich might accumulate during the continuance of the  trust.It  is, permissible, therefore, to think that the  surplusescontemplated  would not be unsubstantial.  Under cl.  14  ofthe  trust deed the settlor provides for the  devolution  ofthe  trusteeship  in case his son, Rajes,  died	 before	 theliquidation  of	 the  debts and says that on  the  death  ofRajes,	Rajes's	 wife  and Ramendra,  are  to  become  jointtrustees  and  that  on	 the death of  either  of  them	 thesurviving  trustee shall be the sole trustee.  There  is  noprovision  for any further devolution of trusteeship in	 thecontingency  of	 such  sole trustee also  dying	 before	 theliquidation of the debts.  The absence of any such provisionmay well be taken to indicate that, in the contemplation  ofthe  settlor,  the debts would be discharged and  the  trustwould come to an end, in any case, before the expiry of	 thethree  lives  mentioned therein, i.e., Rajes, his  wife	 andRamendra,.   While,  therefore, the settlor does  appear  tohave attached considerable importance to the liquidation  ofdebts,	there  is nothing to show that he  was	apprehensivethat the debts would remain undischarged out of his92properties  and	 its  income and that  he  contemplated	 theultimate  discharge  of his debts to be	 such  an  uncertainevent as to drive him to make the accrual of the interest tohis  sons  under the deed to depend upon the  event  of	 theactual	discharge of his debts.	 In this context  there	 arealso  other provisions in the trust deed which are of  greatsignificance.1.   The  two sons, Rajes and Ramendra, are  not  completelyexcluded from any benefit out of the settlor's estate  untilthe debts are discharged and the trust comes to an end.	  Itis  provided  that each of them has to be  paid	 a  specificamount per month out of the properties, i.e., Rs. 300/-	 andRs.  200/- during the settlor's lifetime and Rs.  800/-	 andRs. 700/- after the settlor's death.2.   It	 is further provided that on the death of either  ofthese two sons before the debts are discharged and the trustcomes  to  an  end, the above amounts are  to  go  to  theirrespective legal heirs (subject to some minor variations  sofar  as it relates to Ramendra's'heirs).  The  provision  inthis  behalf, so far as Rajes (with whose interest alone  weare  now  concerned)  shows that on  his  death	 during	 thecontinuance  of the trust the amount payable to him  monthlywas  to be paid to his widow and on her death to  his  legalheirs.3.   The most significant provision in this context is	thatunder cl. 12(a) which, while allotting lots I to IV to Rajesand  lot  V  to Ramendra, specifically	provides  also	thatsurplus income thereof, i.e., such income as is referable tothose lots, should devolve on the two sons in the same	way.A  reference to Sch.  A shows that ,these lots	are  unequaland  hence in the normal course, if there had been  no	suchspecific  provision,  the  surplus income  would  have	beenequally divisible.  The fact that the surplus incomes of thespecified lots is also to devolve along with those specifiedlots  themselves, is a clear indication that the  corpus  ofthese  lots was earmarked for the two sons with the  presentincome	thereof but with a restriction on the  enjoyment  ofthe  present income to specified sums, so as  to  facilitateorderly discharge of the debts.93Now,  there  can be no doubt about the rule that  where	 theenjoyment  of  the  property is postponed  but	the  presentincome thereof is to be applied for the benefit of the doneethe  gift is vested and not contingent. (See Explanation  tos. 19 of the Transfer of Property Act, Explanation to s. 119of  the	 Indian	 Succession  Act.   See	 also  Williams	  onExecutors  and	Administrators, 13th Ed., Vol.	2,  p.	663,para. 1010, and Jarman on Wills, 8th Ed., Vol. 11, p. 1397).This  rule  operates  normally where the  entire  income  isapplied	 for the benefit of the donee.	 The  distinguishingfeature	 in  this case is that it is not the  entire  incomethat  is  available to the donees for their actual  use	 butonly  a	 portion  thereof.  But it is to  be  observed	thataccording  to the scheme of the trust deed, the	 reason	 forlimiting  the  enjoyment of the income to  a  specified	 sumthereof, is obviously in order to facilitate and bring aboutthe  discharge	of  the debts.	 As  already  explained	 theunderlying scheme of the trust deed is that the enjoyment isto  be restricted until the debts are discharged.   Whatevermay be said of such a provision where a donee is not himselfa  person  who	is under any  legal  obligation	 aliunde  todischarge   such  debts,  the  position	 in  this  case	  isdifferent.  The two sons are themselves persons who, if	 thesettlor	 died  intestate, would be under  an  obligation  todischarge his debts out of the properties which devolve uponthem.	It  is	only  the surplus  which  would	 be  legallyavailable  for division between them.  In such a  case,	 thebalance	 of the income which is meant to be applied for	 thedischarge of the debts is also an application of the  incomefor  the benefit of the donees.	 It follows that the  entireincome	is to be applied for the benefit of the doneees	 andonly the surplus, if any, is available to the donees.  Hencethe  provision	in the trust deed that lots I to IV  are  todevolve on Rajes and lot V on Ramendra and that the  surplusincome	of  each of these lots after the  discharge  of	 thedebts  is also to devolve in the same way, clearly  operatesas  nothing  more  than	 the  present  allotment  of   theseproperties  themselves	to  the	 donees	 ,subject.  to	 thedischarge of debts nationally in the same proportion.  Thus,taking the substance of the entire94scheme	of this division between the two sons  the  positionthat  emerges  is as follows. (1) Specified  lots  are	ear-marked for each of the two sons. (2) The present income	 outof  those  lots is to be applied for the  discharge  of	 thedebts  after payment of specified sums therefrom by  way  ofmonthly	 payments  to  the  two	 sons  and  presumably	suchapplication is to be notionally pro rata. (3) Any  surpluseswhich remain from out of the income of each of the lots	 areto  go	to  the very person to whom the corpus	of  the	 lotitself is to belong on the termination of the trust. (4)  Inthe  event  of	any  of	 the  two  sons	 dying	before	 thetermination  of	 the  trust, his  interest  in	the  monthlypayments  out  of  the income is to devolve  on	 his  heirs.These arrangements taken together clearly indicate that whatis postponed is not the very vesting of the property in	 thelots themselves but that the enjoyment of the income thereofis  burdened  with  certain monthly payments  and  with	 theobligation to discharge debts therefrom notionally pro rata,all  of which taken together constitute application  of	 theincome for his benefit.It may be noticed at this stage that one of the features  ofa  contingent interest is that if a person dies	 before	 thecontingency  disappears and before the vesting	occurs,	 theheirs  of such a person do not get the benefit of the  gift.But the trust deed in question specifically provides in	 thecase  of Rajes-with whose interest alone we  are  concerned-that  even in the event of his death it is his	heirs  (thensurviving) that would take the interest.  It has been  urgedthat the provision in el. 12(a) in favour of the heirs	thensurviving is in the nature of a direct gift in favour of theheir  or  heirs	 who  may be alive  at	the  date  when	 thecontingency  disappears.   But even so, this would  make  nopractical  difference.	It is to be remembered that in	thiscase the parties belong to the Dayabhaga school of Hindu Law-and  this  is	admitted  before  us.	It  is	also  to  beremembered that up to the third degree in the male line	 theprinciple  of representation under the Hindu  Law  operates.The net result of the provision, therefore, is that wheneverthe alleged contingency of discharge of debts may  disappearthe person on whom the interest95would devolve would, in the normal course, be the very	heir(the  lineal  descendant  then surviving or  the  widow)  ofRajes.	 The actual devolution of the  interest,  therefore,would  not  be affected by the	alleged	 contingency.	Thatbeing so, it is more reasonable to hold that the interest ofRajes under the deed is vested and not contingent.This view is confirmed by the fact that under the compromisedecree which is now sought to be executed both the judgment-debtors,  Rajes	 and  Ramendra, created	 a  charge  for	 themonthly	 payment  to Santi Debi and agreed  to	such  chargebeing  presently executable.  This shows clearly  that	theythemselves  understood the interest available to them  underthe trust as a vested interest.In the course of the discussions before us a number of otherpossibilities  which may arise with reference to the  actualterms of the deed were closely examined with a view to	testhow far they fit in with one view or the other of the natureof  interest  in  question.   But  even	 such  an  elaborateconsideration of the possibilities did not throw any furtherlight  on the question at issue.  We are, therefore, of	 theopinion that in so far as the interest of Rajes is concernedin  lots I to IV under the trust deed, it is vested and	 notcontingent.The  further question that arises is whether in view of	 theterms  to  be noticed, his interest in No.  44/2,  LansdowneRoad,  against	which  execution is sought  is	in  any	 waydifferent.  The scope for any possible difference arises  inview  of  the fact that the devolution of lots I  to  IV  onRajes  or his heirs (then living) is specifically  expressedto be "subject to the provisions contained in el. (c) hereofregarding  premises No. 44/2, Lansdowne Road." The  relevantprovisions relating to this property are as follows.  Clause10  provides that the settlor as well as Rajes and  Ramendrawith their respective families should be entitled to  residein the premises during the settlor's lifetime and so long assettlor's  debts  are  not fully  paid	off.   Clause  12(c)provides  that after the death of the settlor and after	 alldebts have been fully paid off and on the said Rajes or	 hislegal heirs purchasing in the town of Calcutta or96its  suburbs a suitable house at a value not less  than	 Rs.40,000/-  and making over the same to  Ramendra	 absolutely,Rajes or his legal heirs shall be the absolute owner of	 thepremises No. 44/2, Lansdowne Road, but that so long as	suchhouse be not purchased and made over to Ramendra, Rajes	 andRamendra  should  both	be entitled to reside  in  the	saidpremises with their respective families.  It is urged  that,since  it  is  thus specifically  provided  that  until	 thedischarge,  by	Rajes  or his heirs, of	 the  obligation  topurchase another suitable house and to make over the same toRamendra  or  his  heirs, Rajes is not to  be  the  absoluteowner,	this is a factor which imports a further element  ofcontain.  agency, in the interest given to Rajes under	thisdeed of trust in so far as it relates to premises No.  44/2,Lansdowne Road.	 It is contended that in order to  emphasisethe additional contingency as regards this item,  subjectionto cl. (c) as regards these premises, has been	specificallyincorporated  in cl. 12(a).  Now, it is to be  noticed	thatthe  preliminary  portion  of  cl.  12	shows  that  on	 theliquidation of the debts and after the death of the settlor,the trust shall come to an end and the properties in Lots  Ito  IV	are to devolve on Rajes.  Clause  12(c),  therefore,would  prima facie show that the contingency, if any,  whicharises	by virtue of the obligation to	provide	 alternativeaccommodation  to  Ramendra or his heirs is  to	 arise	onlyafter  the  death of the settlor and the  discharge  of	 thedebts,	which  taken together means the termination  of	 thetrust.	So understood and assuming for the sake of  argumentthat the obligation to provide alternative accommodation  isby itself a contingency, this would bring about a contingentinterest in premises No. 41/2, Lansdowne Road, in favour  ofRajes, after the termination of the trust.  It follows	thatthis  item of property would not be owned by  anybody  untilthat contingency disappears.  This would result in this itemof  property remaining without any legal ownership  for	 theintervening  period  which is opposed to law.	The  learnedSolicitor-General,  presumably recognising this	 difficulty,was  obliged to urge that the contingency arising  from	 theprovision imposing obligation on Rajes and his97dra should be read into the preliminary portion of el. 12 inso  far as premises No. 44/2, Lansdowne Road, is  concerned.That  is  to  say,  according to him, the  trust  is  to  beconstrued  as not coming to an end as regards this  item  ofproperty  alone until the obligation to provide	 alternativeaccommodation  is  discharged.	This construction  would  bedoing  great  violence	to  the language  of  cl.  12  whichspecifically  shows  in peremptory terms that  the  trust  "shall come to an end on the liquidation of all the debts  ofthe settlor and after his death." The construction contendedfor  is	 not  justified	 by the	 phrase	 "  subject  to	 theprovisions  contained in cl. (c) hereof	 regarding  premisesNo.  44/2, Lansdowne Road" which occurs in cl. (a)  thereof.The  limitation by way of subjection has reference  only  to"devolution" of the properties in Lots I to IV "absolutely."Neither	 the  use  of  word "devolution"  nor  of  the	word"absolutely" in cls. 12(a) and (c) can be understood, in thecontext,  as  having  any  bearing on  the  vesting  of	 theinterest  as opposed to the interest being  contingent,	 butonly as indicating a full and unrestricted devolution of theproperty subject to no limitations as regards the  enjoymentthereof,  as opposed to a vesting and devolution subject  torestricted enjoyment.It appears to us reasonably clear that the intention of	 thesettlor,  taking  cls. 12(a) and (c) together,	is  that  asregards	 Lots I to IV, the beneficial interest of  Rajes  asregards	 all  the properties  comprised	 therein,  includingpremises  No. 44/2, Lansdowne Road, is vested in  title	 butrestricted in enjoyment so long as the settlor is alive	 andthe  debts are not discharged, and that as regards  premisesNo.   44/2,  Lansdowne	Road,  his  enjoyment	is   furtherrestricted  inasmuch  as  it  is subject  to  the  right  ofresidence  of  Ramendra and his heirs in the  said  premisesuntil the obligation to provide alternative accommodation isdischarged by Rajes or his heirs.We  are clearly of the opinion that the objection raised  tothe execution (1) on the ground that the properties  chargedare to be proceeded against, in the first1398instance,  and	(2) on the ground that	the  interest  whichRajes  gets  under  the trust deed  either  as	regards	 thegeneral	 properties  covered  by  the  deed  or	 as  regardspremises  No.  44/2,  Lansdowne	 Road,	is  contingent,	 areuntenable.   If, as a fact, either the debts  remain  undis-charged or the alternative accommodation has not so far beenprovided, how the rights of persons affected thereby are  tobe safeguarded is not a matter that arises for considerationbefore us and we express no opinion thereupon.This appeal is accordingly dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.