PETITIONER:B. V. PATANKAR AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:C. G. SASTRYDATE OF JUDGMENT:08/09/1960BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1961 AIR  272		  1961 SCR  (1) 591 CITATOR INFO : R	    1967 SC1193	 (12) R	    1980 SC 214	 (12) RF	    1991 SC1094	 (4,5)ACT:Rent Control-Restrictions against eviction of tenants-Decreefor  possession of house-Delivery  given in the	 absence  oftenant-Executing   Court   ignoring   restrictions-Legality-Repugnance  Mysore  House  Rent	 and  Accommodation  ControlOrder, 1948, ss. 9 and 16 and Transfer of Property Act, 1882(Act IV of 1882),Code of Civil Procedure (Act V of 1908) ss.47, 151.HEADNOTE:The  appellants	 in execution of a decree  passed  in  theirfavour	for  possession	 over a	 house	obtained  possessionthereof	 on  July  22,	1951.  The  order  for	delivery  ofpossession was made without notice to and in the absence  ofthe  respondent.  The respondent made an application in	 theExecuting  Court  under ss. 47, 144 and 151, Code  of  CivilProcedure  for setting aside the ex-parte order of  deliveryand  for redelivery of possession of the house to him or  inthe  alternative, for an order to the appellants for  givingfacilities  for removing the moveables from the house.	 TheExecuting Court upheld the contention of the appellant that76592the  respondent's  application	was  not  maintainable.	  Onappeal	by  the	 respondent the High  Court  held  that	 theExecuting Court had no jurisdiction to order the eviction ofthe respondent because of the provisions of the Mysore HouseRent  and  Accommodation Control Order, 1948, which  was  inoperation on the date of eviction and under ss. 9 and 16  ofwhich  certain restrictions were placed on the	eviction  oftenants.   On  appeal to this Court by	special	 leave,	 theappellants  contended, inter alia, as they did in  the	HighCourt  also-,  that the Mysore House Rent Control  Order  of1948  was  repugnant to the provisions of  the	Transfer  ofProperty Act, 1882 (IV of 1882), which became applicable  inthe  State of Mysore by Part B States (Laws) Act, 1951	(ActIII  of 1951), which came into force on April 1, 1951 ;	 andtherefore  the House Control Order could not operate on	 therights	of the parties on the day when the  Executing  Courtmade the order for delivery of possession to the appellants,i.  e.,	 July 9, 1951, or when delivery was  actually  giveni.e., on July 22, 1951.Held, that the Transfer of Property Act came into force onlywhen  it  was extended by notification dated  September	 12,1951,  under s. 3 of that Act, i.e., from October  1,  1951,and  therefore	the  Mysore  House  Rent  and  AccommodationControl Order, 1948, was not repealed as from April 1, 1951,when the Part B States (Laws) Act, 1951, came into force andwas in force when the possession was delivered.	 It was thenan  existing  law  which  was  saved  by  Art.	372  of	 theConstitution  and remained unaffected by Art. 254,  and	 thequestion of repugnancy to the Transfer of Property Act	(ActIV of 1882) did not arise in this case.M/s.   Tilakram	 Rambaksh v. Bank of  Patiala,	A.I.R.	1959Punj. 440, considered.Section 47 of the Code of Civil Procedure was applicable  tothe  proceeding out of which this appeal has arisen  becausethe question whether the decree was completely satisfied andtherefore  the	court became functus officio  was  a  matterrelating  to  execution, satisfaction and discharge  of	 thedecree.Ramanna v. Nallaparaju, A, I. R. 1956 S. C. 87 and J. Marretv.   Mohammad  Shirazi	and  Sons, A.I.R.  1930	 P.  C.	 86,considered.Where  the court was not aware of the statutory	 restrictionby which the execution of a decree was prohibited and passedan  ejectment  decree against a tenant the  Executing  Courtcould not execute the decree and any possession given  underan ex parte order passed in execution of such a decree couldbe set aside under s. 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure.K.Muhammad Sikri Sahib v. Madhava Kurup, A.I.R. 1949 Mad.809, considered.  1The contentions of the appellant based on the ground of	 resjudicata and estoppel were without any force.  Sections 9(1)and  16 of the House Rent Control Order placed	restrictionson593the  power of the Court to execute the decree  and  ignoringthem   was   not  merely  an  error  in	 the   exercise	  ofjurisdiction.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 302 of 1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedApril  3, 1954, of the Mysore High Court in  Regular  AppealNo. 195 of 1951-52.S.A. Gopala Rao and B. R. L. Iyengar, for the appellants.Mirle N. Lakshminaranappa, P. Ram Reddy, R. Thiagarajan	 andC. V. L. Narayan, for the respondent.1960.  September 8. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyKAPUR	J.-This	 appeal	 has  little  substance	 and   must,therefore,  be	dismissed.  The appellants are	the  decree-holders	 and  the  respondent is  the  judgment-debtor.	  OnFebruary  3,  1941, by a registered deed the father  of	 theappellants leased to the respondent the house in dispute fora  period of 10 years with an option of renewal for  furtherperiods	 for as long as the respondent wanted.	 This  housewas used by the respondent for his hotel.The father died on January 25, 1945.  On December 21,  1945,the appellants filed a suit for a declaration that the	deedof  lease of February 3, 1941, executed by their father	 wasnot  for legal necessity or for the benefit of	the  family,that  the alienation was not binding on them and the  optionof  renewal  under the lease was void and  unenforceable  onaccount	 of uncertainty. The appellants further	 prayed	 fordelivery  of  possession and for a decree for a sum  of	 Rs.2,655 as past mesne profits and future mesne profits at	 Rs.250  per  mensem as from December 1, 1945.   The  respondentfiled  his  written  statement on March	 11,  1946,  and  anadditional  written statement on November 26, 1946,  wherebyhe raised an objection to the jurisdiction of the court	 byreason of the Mysore House Rent Control Order of 1945.	 Thetrial  judge upheld the preliminary objection and  dismissedthe suit.  On appeal, the High Court set aside the decree onthe ground that the594nature	and scope of the suit had been misconceived  by	 thetrial  court  and that it was not based on  relationship  oflandlord  and  tenant and therefore s. 8(1)  of	 the  MysoreHouse  Rent Control Order was inapplicable and the case	 wasremanded for retrial.On  August 23, 1948, the suit was decreed.  The trial  courtheld that the lease was binding for the first period of	 tenyears  as  from May 1, 1941, as it was	supported  by  legalnecessity;   but  the  option  of  renewal  was	  void	 andunenforceable  for  uncertainty and therefore a	 decree	 forpossession  was passed to be operative on the expiry of	 tenyears,	i.e.,  May  1,	1951.	On  appeal  the	 High  Courtconfirmed that decree on August 22, 1950.On  July 9,'1951, the appellants took out execution  of	 thedecree	and on July 22, 195 1, possession was  delivered  tothem.  The order for delivery was made without notice to andin  the absence of the respondent.  The	 proceedings,  "spotmahazar" that the respondent came to the spot after deliveryof  the	 major portion of the property in dispute  had	beendelivered to the appellants.On  August 13, 1951, the respondent made an  application  inthe  Executing Court, the District Judge, under ss. 47,	 144and 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure for setting aside theex parte order of delivery and for redelivery of  possessionof  the house to him and in the alternative for an order  tothe  appellants to give facilities to him  (respondent) toremove	the various moveables and articles mentioned in	 thepetition.   The appellants pleaded that the application	 wasnot maintainable.  The District Judge, on November 14, 1951,upheld	this contention and dismissed the  application.	  Anappeal was taken to the High Court and it reversed the orderof the Executing Court and directed the appellants to returnpossession  of the house in dispute to the respondent  alongwith  the  moveables  which were in the house  at  the	timerespondent  was	 evicted.   The High  Court  held  that	 theExecuting Court had no jurisdiction to order the eviction ofthe  respondent	 because of the provisions of  Mysore  HouseRent and Accommodation Control595Order, 1948, which was in operation on the date of eviction,The  High Court having refused to give a  certificate  underart.  133  the appellants obtained special leave  to  appealfrom  this  Court on January 12, 1955, and this is  how	 thematter has come to this Court.The   question	 for-  decision	 mainly	  turns	  upon	 theapplicability  of  the	provisions of  the  two	 House	RentControl	 Orders	 of  1945 and 1948 and	how  far  they	wereapplicable  to	the proceedings in the suit  and  execution.The Mysore House Rent Control Order of 1945 came into  forceon  November  6,  1945,	 and  by  s.  8(1)  of	this  Act  arestriction  was imposed on the eviction of tenants and	 therelevant part of this section was:-Section	 8 "(1) A tenant in possession of a house shall	 notbe  evicted therefrom, whether in execution of a  decree  orotherwise  before or after the termination of  the  tenancy,except in accordance with the provisions of this clause;(2)A  landlord	wishing to evict a  tenant  in	possessionshall  apply  to  the Controller for  a	 direction  in	thatbehalf.	  If  the  Controller  after  giving  the  tenant  areasonable   opportunity  of  showing  cause   against	 theapplication, is satisfiedThis Order was replaced by the Mysore Rent and AccommodationControl Order of 1948 which came into force on July 1, 1948.The  relevant provisions of this Order, i. e., ss. 9 and  16which are applicable to the present appeal are as follows:-Section 9 " (1) A tenant in possession of a house shall	 notbe  evicted  therefrom whether in execution of a  decree  orotherwise  except in accordance with the provisions of	thisclause(2)A  landlord who seeks to evict a tenant  in	possessionshall apply to the Controller for a direction in that behalfIf   the   Controller,	after  giving  tenant	a   suitableopportunity  of showing cause against such application-,  issatisfied:-this  Order shall Prevent596a  landlord  from  filing a suit for eviction  of  a  tenantbefore a competent civil court, provided that no decree	 foreviction  of  a	 tenant, passed by a civil  court  shall  beexecuted  unless  a certificate to that effect	is  obtainedfrom the Controller "It  was argued on behalf of the appellants before  the	HighCourt  and  that argument was repeated before  us  that	 theMysore House Rent Control Order of 1948 was repugnant to theprovisions of the Transfer of Property Act (Act IV of  1882)which was brought into force in the State of Mysore by	PartB  States (Laws) Act, 1951 (Act III of 1951).  This Act	 wasenacted	 on February 22, 1951, and came into force on  April1,  1951,  which  was  termed the  appointed  day.   It	 wascontended  therefore that the House Control Order could	 notoperate	 on the rights of the parties on the day  when	theExecuting  Court made the. order for delivery of  possessionto the appellants, i.e., July 9, 1951, or when the  deliverywas  actually  given, i.e., on July 22, 1951.  To  test	 theforce  of  this	 argument it is	 necessary  to	examine	 theprovisions of Part B States (Laws) Act and how and when as aconsequence  of	 it  the Transfer  of  Property	 Act  becameeffective  and operative in the State of Mysore.  Section  3of  that  Act  deals with the  extension  and  amendment  ofcertain	 Acts and Ordinances.  The Acts and  the  Ordinancesspecified in the Schedule were amended and became applicableas specified and as a consequence the fourth paragraph of s.1  for	the words " Bombay' Punjab or Delhi ", the  words  "that  the  said States " were  substituted.   Therefore	 theeffect	of the Part B States (Laws) Act merely was that	 quathe Transfer of Property Act, the State of Mysore was placedon  the	 same  footing as the States of	 Bombay,  Punjab  orDelhi.	It was by virtue of a Notification No. 2676-Cts. 46-51-5 dated September 12, 1951, that the Transfer of PropertyAct  was extended to the State of Mysore as from October  1,1951.  Consequently the laws of the State applying to leaseswhich  would include the Mysore House Rent Control Order  of1948  continued to be in force and applicable to cases	thatwere pending till it was repealed by the597Mysore	 Rent  Control	Act  of	 1951  which  received	 thePresident's  assent  on	 August	 16,  1951.   The  argument,therefore,  that  as  from April 1, 1951,  as  a  result  ofrepugnancy  the	 House	Rent Control  Order  of	 1948  stoodrepealed   must	 be  repelled  as  unsound  and	 cannot	  besustained, because it was an existing law which was saved byart. 372 of the Constitution and remained unaffected by art.254.   The Punjab High Court in M/s.  Tilakram	Rambaksh  v.Bank  of Patiala (1) discussing the effect of Part B  States(Laws)	Act on the application of the Transfer	of  PropertyAct to PEPSU said:	      " All that Central Act III of 1951 has  done	      is  to make it possible for Part B  States  to	      extend  the  Act to any part of  territory  by	      notification.   Actually,	 however,  this	 wag	      never done by PEPSU or Punjab and the Transfer	      of Property Act is not as such in force there.	      It  is  unnecessary in  the  circumstances  to	      examine the argument further ".Although  the question of repugnancy was raised in the	HighCourt  at  the time of the hearing of the appeal,  the	trueeffect	of  s.	3 of the Part B States (Laws)  Act  was	 notbrought	 to  the notice of the learned Judges  nor  was	 theNotification placed before them, but it was discussed by theHigh  Court  in its order refusing  certificate	 under	art.133(1)	of the Constitution.  The argument  of	repugnancy,therefore, is wholly inefficacious in this appeal.The inapplicability of s. 47 to the proceedings out of whichthe  appeal has arisen was also raised before us,  but	thatcontention  is	equally unsubstantial because  the  questionwhether	 the decree was completely satisfied  and  thereforethe  court  became functus officio is a matter	relating  toexecution, satisfaction and discharge of the decree.  It washeld by this Court in Ramanna v. Nallaparaju (2) that:	      "	 When  a sale in execution of  a  decree  is	      impugned	 on  the  ground  that	it  is	 not	      warranted by the terms thereof, that  question	      could  be	 agitated, when	 it  arises  between	      parties to the decree, only by an	 application	      under s. 47, and not in a separate suit ".(1) A.I.R. 1959-Pb. 440, 447.(2) A.I.R. 1956 $.C. 87, 91.598See also J. Marret v. Mohammad Shirazi & Sons (1) where	 thefacts  were  that an order was made by the  Executing  Courtdirecting contrary to the terms of the decree the payment ofa certain fund to the decree-holder.  The Madras High  Courtin  K. Mohammad Sikri Sahib v. Madhava Kurup (2)  held	thatwhere the Executing Court was not aware of the amendment  ofthe Rent Restriction Act by which the execution of a  decreewas  prohibited	 and  passed an ejectment  order  against  atenant, the Executing Court could not execute the decree andany  possession	 given	under an ex parte  order  passed  inexecution of such a decree, could be set aside under s.	 151of the Code of Civil Procedure.	 The prohibition is  equallypuissant  in  the present case and s. 47 read  with  s.	 151would	be  equally  effective	to  sustain  the  order	  ofredelivery made in favour of the respondent.The applicability of res judicata and the defenses of waiverand  estoppel  were  also raised  by  the  appellants.	 Thecontention  of res judicata was based on the plea  taken  bythe  respondent	 in his written statement, dated  March	 11,1946,  where  he  pleaded  that	 the  civil  court  had	  nojurisdiction  to  order eviction because of the	 House	RentControl	 Order, 1945, to which the reply of  the  appellantswas  that  considering	the  nature  of	 the  suit  and	 theconsequential  remedy  that they were seeking, the  plea  ofjurisdiction  of the court was not open to  the	 respondent.Thereupon the trial court raised a new 'issue " whether thiscourt has jurisdiction to try the suit, in view of the HouseRent   Control	Order  "  which	 was  decided  against	 therespondent  and	 a decree in favour of	the  appellants	 waspassed on August 23,1945.  This judgment formed the basis ofthe argument before us that the plea of in-executability  ofthe decree could not be raised because it was barred on	 theprinciple of res judicata.  The plea of res judicata is	 notavailable to the appellants as the prohibition on account ofthe House Rent Control Order was not against the passing  ofthe  decree  but  against its execution	 and  therefore	 theobjection to the executability could only be taken(1) A.I.R. 1930 P.C. 86,(2) A.I.R. 1949 Mad. 809.			    599at  the	 time of the execution of the decree  which  in	 theinstant	 case  could  not  be done  because  the  order	 fordelivery by the Executing Court was passed without notice tothe  respondent.  We must, therefore, repel  the  contentionbased on the ground of res judicata.The argument of waiver and estoppel is also devoid of force.This  plea  was	 based on a letter  which  the	respondent'slawyer	sent  in  reply to the	respondent  asking  to	makearrangements  to  put  the appellants  in  possession.	 Theformer	 replied  thereto  that	 his  client'	was   makingarrangements  and as soon as he could do go, he	 would	handover  possession to the appellants.  This is  slender  basisfor  the sustainability of the plea of waiver and  estoppel.There is no conduct on the part of the respondent which	 hasinduced	 the appellants to change their position or  has  inany  way  affected  their  rights  and	the  plea  of	non-executability  which has been taken is based on statute	 andagainst	 statute there cannot be an estoppel.	This  groundtaken  by  the	appellants is equally unsound  and  must  berejected.The  contention raised that ignoring ss. 9(1) and 16 of	 the1948  House Rent Control Order is no more than an  error  inthe  exercise  of jurisdiction does not appear to  be  soundbecause those sections are a fetter on the executability  ofthe  decree and not merely an error in the exercise  of	 thejurisdiction.	 In  the  present  case	 the  two   sectionsmentioned above were a restriction on the power of the courtto execute the decree and therefore this argument must	alsobe, rejected.In the result this appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.77600