PETITIONER:SRI SUDHANSU SHEKHAR SINGH DEO	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF ORISSA AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:21/09/1960BENCH:SHAH, J.C.BENCH:SHAH, J.C.DAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.GUPTA, K.C. DASAYYANGAR, N. RAJAGOPALACITATION: 1961 AIR  196		  1961 SCR  (1) 779 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1964 SC 444	 (12) R	    1966 SC1260	 (5) RF	    1971 SC 530	 (232,319,395)ACT:Agricultural  Income Tax-Ex-Ruler of Indian  State-Exemptionfrom  taxation-Claim based on agreement	 of  merger--Whetherjusticiable-Definition	of   "	Person	"-Whether  excludes"Ruler  "Orissa Agricultural Income-tax Act, 1947 (Orissa  24of 1947), SS. 2(i), 3-Constitution of India, Arts. 291, 362,363.HEADNOTE:On  December 15, 1947, the Ruler of the erstwhile  State  ofSonepur, the appellant, executed a merger agreement  wherebythe Government of India acquired full sovereign rights	overthe territory of the State, but ownership and full enjoymentof  private  properties belonging to the appellant  and	 thepersonal rights, privileges, dignities etc., enjoyed by	 himimmediately  before August 15, 1947, were guaranteed to	 himunder Arts. 4 and 5. On July 27, 1949, the  Governor-Generalof  India issued an order providing that the  merged  OrissaStates including the State of Sonepur shall be	administeredin  all respects as if they formed part of the	Province  ofOrissa.	  The Orissa Agricultural Income-tax Act, 1947,	 hadin  the	 meantime  been enacted by the	Legislature  of	 theProvince of Orissa and by virtue of an Ordinance promulgatedby  the	 Governor of Orissa on December 30,  1949,  the	 Actbecame applicable to the merged Orissa States.	Section 2(1)of  the Act defined a " person " as inclusive of a Ruler  ofan Indian State, but by the Adaptation of Laws Order,  195o,reference  to  Rulers of Indian States was deleted  as	fromJanuary	 26, 195o.  The appellant contended that he was	 notliable	to be assessed to tax on agricultural  income  underthe  provisions	 of the Act because (1) as a  Ruler  of	 theState of Sonepur, he was, before merger of his State, immunefrom  liability	 to  taxation  in  respect  of	his  privateproperty and that his immunity from taxation was  Guaranteedby Arts. 4 and 5 of the agreement of merger; and (2) that byvirtue of the amendment of S. 2, cl. (1), of the Act, he wasnot  a "person" within the meaning of the Act and  thereforehe was not liable to pay agricultural income-tax.Held:  (i) that the amendment in the definition of  "person"in S. 2, Cl. (i), of the Act was made not with the object ofexcluding the Rulers of former Indian States from  liabilityto  pay	 tax, but only to delete a clause which in  view  ofpolitical  changes which had taken place since the  Act	 wasenacted had no practical significance.	The appellant  couldnot claim exemption from taxation on the ground that he	 wasnot  a	" person ", in the absence of an  express  exemptionclause in the Act.780(2)that the privileges guaranteed by Arts. 4 and 5 of  theagreement  of  merger were only personal privileges  of	 theappellant  as an ex-Ruler and that these privileges did	 notextend to his private property.Vishweshwar  Rao  v.  The State of  Madhya  Pradesh,  [1952]S.C.R. 1020, followed.(3)that	 the claim made by the appellant of immunity  fromtaxation  relying  upon	 the agreement	of  merger  was	 notjusticiable.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 307 to	 309of 1958.Appeals from the judgment and order dated August 1, 1956, ofthe Orissa High Court in O. J. C. Nos. 16, 19, 137 and 61 of1954.C.B. Aggarwala and P. C. Aggarwala, for the appellant (InC. As.	Nos. 307 to 309 of 58).N.C.  Chatterjee,  J. H. Umrigar and T. M. Sen,	 for  therespondents (In all the appeals).1960.	September  21.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered bySHAH  J.-This  is  a  group  of	 three	appeals	 filed	withcertificate  of fitness under Art. 132 of  the	Constitutionissued by the High Court of Judicature, Orissa.The Legislature of the Province of Orissa enacted the OrissaAgricultural   Income-tax  Act	XXIV   of   1947-hereinafterreferred to as the Act-providing for the levy of  income-taxon  agricultural income derived from lands situated  in	 theProvince  of  Orissa.  This Act was brought  into  operationfrom July 10, 1947.  By s. 3, agricultural income-tax at therate or rates specified in the schedule was made payable foreach financial year on the total income of the previous yearof   every  person.   By  the  proviso	to   that   section,agricultural  income  of the Central Government	 or  of	 theState  Government or of any local authority was exempt	from'taxation.   Section  2, cl. (1), defined a "  person  "  asinclusive  of a Ruler of an Indian State.  The appellant  inthese  three  appeals is the former Ruler of  the  State  ofSonepur.  After781the  establishment  of the Dominion of India on	 August	 15,1947,  the  appellant as the Ruler of the State	 of  Sonepurexecuted  an  instrument  of  accession	 to  the.,  Dominionrestricted  to three subjects-Defence, External Affairs	 andCommunications.	 On December 15, 1947, he executed a  mergeragreement  whereby  the territory of the  State	 of  Sonepurbecame	merged with the territory of the Dominion of  India.By  virtue of the merger agreement, the Government of  Indiaacquired  full	sovereign rights over the territory  of	 theState, but ownership of private properties belonging to	 theappellant   and	 full  enjoyment  thereof  were	 under	 theagreement guaranteed to him under Art. 3. In exercise of thepowers conferred by the Extra Provincial Jurisdiction Act 47of 1947, the Government of India by notification dated March23,  1948, delegated to the Provincial Government of  Orissafull  powers  to  administer the  merged  States  of  Orissaincluding  the	State  of Sonepur.  The	 Government  of	 theProvince of Orissa applied to the merged States s. 1 of	 theAct  as	 from January 19, 1949, and  by	 notification  datedApril 1, 1949, the remaining provisions of the Act.  In	 themeantime,  by amendment, two new sections, s. 290(A) and  s.290(B)	were  incorporated in the Government of	 India	Act,1935.  The Governor-General of India was thereby given powerto direct by order that a merged State shall be administeredin  all	 respects  as if it formed part	 of  the  Governor'sProvince  specified in the order.  The	Governor-General  ofIndia  exercising  authority  under ss.	 290(A)	 and  290(B)issued on July 27, 1949, an order providing that the  mergedOrissa	States	including  the State  of  Sonepur  shall  beadministered  in all respects as if they formed part of	 theProvince  of  Orissa with effect from August  1,  1949.	  OnDecember  30,  1949,  the  Governor  of	 Orissa	 promulgatedOrdinance  No.	IV  of 1949 providing inter  alia  that	 theAgricultural Income-tax Act, 1947, be applied to the  mergedOrissa	States.	  This Ordinance was later replaced  by	 theOrissa Merged States (Laws) Act, XVI of 1950.  The appellantwas then called upon by the Agricultural782Income-tax  Officer to furnish a return of his	agriculturalincome.	  The appellant disputed his liability to   pay	 theagricultural income-tax and declined to furnish the  return.The  Agricultural Income-tax Officer then proceeded to	makeenquiries  about the income received from the lands held  bythe  appellant	and assessed him to pay tax  for  the  years1949-50 to 1953-54. He	also  imposed  a  penalty  upon	 theappellant for  failure	to submit his returns for the  years1949-50 and    1950-51.	 Against the order assessing him  totax and	  directing  him  to  pay  penalty,  the   appellantpreferred appeals to the Assistant Collector of AgriculturalIncome-tax,  Sambalpur.	 The appeals were dismissed by	thatofficer.    Revision  applications  to	the   Collector	  ofCommercial  Taxes, Cuttack and to the Board of Revenue	wereunsuccessful.The  appellant	filed four petitions in the  High  Court  ofOrissa,	 being	petitions Nos. 17, 16, 19 and  137  of	1954challenging  the assessments made by the taxing	 authoritiesfor   the  years  1949-50,  1950-51,  1951-52  and   1952-53respectively, and two more petitions being petitions Nos. 18and  138  of 1954 against orders imposing  penalty  for	 theyears 1949-50 and 1950-51 respectively.	 These six petitionsand  certain other petitions were heard by a Division  Benchof  the Orissa High Court.  The High Court held that by	 theguarantee  of  full  ownership, use  and  enjoyment  of	 theprivate properties under the merger agreement the Propertiesof the appellant were not rendered immune from liability  topay  tax  imposed by the Act and that in the absence  of  anexpress	 provision, his income from lands was liable to	 payagricultural income-tax.  The High Court also held that eventhough the appellant was the Ruler of a former Orissa State,he  was a " person " within the meaning of the Act  and	 wasliable	to pay agricultural income-tax.	 The learned  Judgestherefore dismissed the petitions challenging the  liabilityof  the appellant for the assessment years 1950-51,  1951-52and  1952-53  to  pay  agricultural  income-tax,  and	theycancelled  the	order of assessment in respect of  the	year1949-50 and the orders imposing penalty in respect of  years1949-50 and			    7831950-51.  Against the orders dismissing the applications forsetting	 aside the assessments in respect of years  1950-51,1951-52 and 1952-53, these appeals have been preferred	withcertificate granted by the High Court under Art. 132 of	 theConstitution.The  appellant was undoubtedly the Ruler of an Indian  Statebefore	August	15.  1947,  but	 by  reason  of	 the  mergeragreement  executed  by	 him  on  December  15,	 1947,	 hissovereignty  was extinguished.	By Art.	 1 of the  terms  ofthe merger agreement, the appellant ceded to the Dominion ofIndia  full and exclusive authority, jurisdiction and  powerfor  and  in  relation to the governance of  the  State	 andagreed	to transfer the administration of the State  on	 theappointed  day	and  as	 from the  said	 day,  the  DominionGovernment became competent to exercise the power, authorityand jurisdiction in relation to the governance of the  Statein  such matters and through such agency as  the  Governmentthought fit.  By Art. 3, the appellant remained entitled  tofull ownership, use and enjoyment of all private  properties(but  not of the State properties) belonging to him  on	 thedate of the merger.  By Art. 5, the Dominion Government gua-ranteed the succession according to law and customs, to	 thegadi  of the State and to the personal	rights,	 privileges,dignities  and titles of the appellant.	 It was provided  byArt.  4 that " the Raja, the Rani, the Rajmata, the  Yuvrajaand the Yuvrani shall be entitled to all personal privilegesenjoyed by them whether within or outside the territories ofthe  State, immediately before the 15th day of August,	1947".The  appellant	contends  that as a Ruler of  the  State  ofSonepur,  he  was, before merger of his State,	immune	fromliability  to  taxation in respect of his  private  propertyboth  within his territory and outside.	 He claims  that  hewas so immune in respect of his property within his State asa Ruler and in respect of his property outside the State  bythe  rules of International Law which, he  submits,  protectfrom taxation the properties of a Ruler of a State,  situatein a foreign State.  The appellant says that by Arts. 4	 and5, the Dominion Government guaranteed to him all784his  personal  rights,	privileges,  dignities	and   titlesenjoyed within or without the territory immediately   beforethe  15th  August,  1947, and that any attempt	to  tax	 hisprivate	 property  by the State of Orissa or  by  the  UnionGovernment  violates that guarantee.  The appellant  submitsthat to give effect to this guarantee, all legislation	mustbe interpreted in the light of the merger agreement which heclaims	is incorporated in Art. 362 of the Constitution	 andhe must be held exempt from liability to pay tax even thoughno  express  provision in that behalf has been made  by	 theLegislature.   In  our	view,  there  is  no  force  in	 thecontentions   raised  by  the  appellant.   The	  privilegesguaranteed  by Arts. 4 and 5 are personal privileges of	 theappellant as an ex-Ruler and those privileges do not  extendto  his	 personal  property.   In  dealing  with  a  similarcontention  raised  on the interpretation of Art. 4  of	 themerger	agreement  entered into by the Ruler  of  Khairagarh(which	was  in material terms identical with the  terms  ofArt.  4 of the agreement executed by the appellant),  S.  R.Das, J., (as he then was), observed in Visweshwar Rao v. TheState of Madhya Pradesh(1):"  The guarantee or assurance to which due regard is  to  behad is limited to personal rights, privileges and  dignitiesof  the Ruler qua a Ruler.  It does not extend	to  personalproperty which is different from personal rights ".The Act imposes on the agricultural income of "every  person" liability to pay agricultural income-tax.  By the  provisoto  s.	3, agricultural income of  the	Central	 Government,State  Government  and of local authorities is	exempt	fromtax, but this exemption is not extended to any other body orperson.	 It is true that in the definition of the expression"  person " as originally enacted in s. 2, cl. (1),  a Rulerof  an	Indian	State  was expressly  included	and  by	 theAdaptation  of	Laws  Order, 1950, reference  to  Rulers  ofIndian States was deleted as from January 26, 1950.  But  bythat amendment, an intention to exclude the Rulers of IndianStates from liability to pay(1)  [1952] S.C.R. 1020, 1054.			    785agricultural  income-tax was, in our judgment, not  evinced.Between	 the  dates  on which the Act wag  enacted  and	 theAdaptation of Laws Order, 1950. several political events  offar reaching effect had taken place, in consequence of whichthe  appellant bad ceased to be a Ruler of an Indian  State.On  January  26, 1950, the date on which the  Adaptation  ofLaws Order, 1950, became operative, there were in, existenceno  Indian  States.  The sovereign rights of  the  erstwhileRulers	of  the Indian States were extinguished,  and  theirterritories were merged in the, Indian Union.  The amendmentin the definition of"person	 " in s. 2, cl. (i), of the Act was made  not  with)the  object of excluding the Rulers of former Indian  Statesfrom  liability	 to pay tax: it was only made to;  delete  aclause which, in view of political changes, had no practicalsignificance.	Liability to pay tax is imposed by  the	 Actand  there is in the Act no express exemption in  favour  ofthe  appellant.	 The claim of the appellant to exemption  onthe  ground that he is not a " person " cannot therefore  besustained.Article 362 of the Constitution provides:"In  the  exercise  of the power of  Parliament	 or  of	 theLegislature  of a State to make laws or in the	exercise  ofthe  executive power of the Union or of a State, due  regardshall be bad to the guarantee or assurance given tinder	 anysuch  covenant	or agreement as is referred to in  Art.	 291with   respect	to  the	 personal  rights,  privileges	 anddignities of the Ruler of an Indian State ".Article	 291 of the Constitution deals with the privy  purseof  the Rulers under any covenant or agreement entered	intoby the Ruler of any Indian State before the commencement  ofthe  Constitution  payment whereof is free from tax  as	 hasbeen granted or assured by the Government of the Dominion ofIndia.	 Article  362 recommends to the Parliament  and	 theState  Legislatures in making laws after the Constitution  "to have due regard to the guarantee or assurance given underany  covenant  or agreement ". Even though Art. 362  is	 notrestricted  in its recommendation to agreements relating  tothe privy purse and786covers	all  agreements and covenants entered  into  by	 theRulers	of  Indian  States before the  commencement  of	 theConstitution  whereby  the personal rights,  privileges	 anddignities  of the Ruler of an Indian State were	 guaranteed,it  does not import any legal obligation enforceable at	 theinstance  of the erstwhile Ruler of a former  Indian  State.If, despite the recommendation that due regard shall be	 hadto  the guarantee or assurance given under the	covenant  oragreement,  the	 Parliament or the Legislature	of  a  Statemakes laws inconsistent with the personal rights, privilegesand dignities of the Ruler of an Indian State, the  exerciseof  the	 legislative  authority	 cannot,  relying  upon	 theagreement or covenant, be questioned in any court, and	thatis so expressly provided by Art. 363 of the Constitution.The plea of the appellant that he was not seeking to enforcethe  terms  of the merger agreement and that be	 was  merelyresisting  the claim made by the authority appointed by	 theState of Orissa to levy a tax inconsistently with the  termsof  the merger agreement, has no substance.  In	 truth,	 theappellant  sought  by his petitions under Art.	226  of	 theConstitution  to enforce the terms of Art. 4 of	 the  mergeragreement.   By his petitions, the appellant contended	thatin  enacting the Agricultural Income-tax Act and in  seekingto  enforce  it	 against  him, the  State  of  Orissa  actedcontrary  to the terms of the merger agreement and he  askedthe High Court to enforce the terms of the merger agreement.On the grounds therefore that liability to pay	agriculturalincome-tax  in	respect of his private property	 is  imposedupon  the  appellant by s. 3 of the Act,  and  the  immunityclaimed	 by the appellant is not one of the personal  rightsor privileges within the meaning of the merger agreement andthat the claim made by the appellant is not justiciable, theobjection  raised  by  the appellant  to  liability  to	 payagricultural  income-tax  assessed under the Act  cannot  besustained.Two  subsidiary contentions which were sought to  be  raisedbefore us may be briefly referred to.  It was urged that  ofthe forty-two villages of which the			    787appellant  is  held  by the assessing authority	 to  be	 theholder, two were in the year 1945 transferred by him to	 theYuvrani (the appellant's son's wife) and on that,,  account,the  income of those villages was not liable to be taxed  inhis  hands.  It appears from the assessment order that	thiscontention  was	 raised before the  Agricultural  Income-taxOfficer	 and  that officer rejected the	 contention  relyingupon s. 14, cl. (1), of the Act.  It is unnecessary for	 thepurpose	 of  these appeals to decide whether  the  assessingofficer	 was  right  in	 the view which	 he  took.   In	 thepetitions  filed  by the appellant in the High	Court,	thisplea  was  not raised and no relief was claimed	 by  him  inrespect of the income of the two villages.  The question wasnever  mooted before the High Court and the State of  Orissahad  no	 opportunity of meeting the claim now sought  to  bemade by the appellant.	On the ground that the question	 wasnever raised in the High Court, we reject this contention.It  was	 also urged that whereas the assessing	officer	 hasfound that the appellant had lands in forty-two villages, inthe  inventory of properties submitted by the  appellant  tothe Government, only eighteen villages were set out and thisinventory was accepted by the Government of India.   Relyingupon this premise, the appellant contends that he is  liableto  pay	 tax in respect of his income  from  these  eighteenvillages  and no more.	But even this plea was never  raisedin  the	 High  Court and we cannot, in	dealing	 with  theseappeals,  enter	 upon an enquiry into a question  which	 wasnever  raised on which no evidence was led, and on which  nofinding was given by the High Court.On  the view taken by us, appeals Nos. 307, 308 and  309  of1958  fail and are dismissed with costs.  There will be	 onehearing fee.Appeals dismissed.788