PETITIONER:RAM KRISHAN AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF DELHI(With connected appeal)DATE OF JUDGMENT:09/03/1956BENCH:AIYAR, N. CHANDRASEKHARABENCH:AIYAR, N. CHANDRASEKHARABOSE, VIVIANSINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1956 AIR  476		  1956 SCR  182ACT:Prevention of Corruption-"Obtains", Meaning of-RailwayServants,  if  public  servants-Laying	of  traps-Propriety-Prevention  of	Corruption  Act (II of	1947),	s.  5(1)(d),subsection (2)Indian Railways Act (IX of 1890) as amended byAct XVII of 1955. s. 137.HEADNOTE:The  appellants	 were  suspected of  exporting	potatoes  atconcessional  rates on false declarations and Madan  Lal,  aRailway	 Officer,  was deputed to assist the Police  in	 theinvestigation.	  In  course  of  that	 investigation	 theappellants  offered a bribe to Madan Lal for hushing up	 thecase  but  he refused to accept it.  As	 they  persisted  intheir  offer  a trap was laid in Madan Lal's  house  and  itsucceeded.   Two Police Officers and a Magistrate heard	 theconversation from the adjoining room and saw the payment  ofthe bribe through a hole.  The appellants were charged unders. 120-B of the Indian Penal Code for criminal conspiracy tocause the offence of criminal misconduct punishable under s.5(2) of Prevention of Corruption Act of 1947 to be committedby Madan Lal as also under that section read with s. 116  ofthe  Indian Penal Code.	 They were convicted by the  SpecialJudge  on both the counts and their convictions were  upheldby  the	 High Court.  The contentions on their	behalf	werethat  s.  5(2) of the Prevention of Corruption	Act  had  noapplication to the facts of the case, that Madan Lal was nota public servant within the meaning of the Act and,  lastly,that the laying of the trap was an invitation to commit	 thecrime and afforded a good reason for	reduction   of	 thesentences.Held,  that  the  contentions were  untenable  and  must  berejected.That  the  word "obtains" occurring in clause  (d)  to	sub-section (1)    of  s. 5 of the Prevention of Corruption	 Actdoes not exclude the idea of acceptance of a bribe on offer,and a public servant, whether he simply accepts a bribe,  orsolicits   or  extorts	it,  thereby  obtains  a   pecuniaryadvantage  by abusing his position as a public	servant	 andcommits an offence under that section, any consideration  asto  motive or reward for showing favour or  disfavour  beingaltogether irrelevant.That  as a result of the amendment of s. 137 of	 the  IndianRailways  Act  by  the Amendment Act  of  1955	all  railwayservants  have	become	public servants	 not  only  for	 thelimited purposes of Ch.	 IX183of the Indian Penal Code but generally under the  Preventionof Corruption Act.  That	it cannot be laid down as an absolute rule that	 thelaying of traps, especially in cases of this nature,  shouldbe  deprecated	as constituting an invitation to  commit  anoffence	 and  an  offence thus detected does  not  lose	 itsgravity	 thereby  so  as to call  for  a  lenient  sentence.Where, however, proper limits are exceeded and the money  tobe  given  as bribe is supplied by the Police,	it  must  beseverely condemned.Brennan v. Peek ([1947] 2 All E.R. 572), considered.Rao  Shiv Bahadur Singh and another v. The State of  VindhyaPradesh ([1954] S.C.R. 1098) and Bamjanam Singh v. The Stateof Bihar, (Cr.	Appeal No. 81 of 1953), referred to.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeals  Nos.  43and 44 of 1954.Appeals	 by special leave from the judgment and order  datedthe  23rd  October 1953 of the Circuit Bench of	 the  PunjabHigh  Court  at Delhi in Criminal Appeal No.  24-D  of	1953arising out of the judgment and order dated the 26th  August1953 of the Court of Special Judge, Delhi in Corruption CaseNo. 10 of 1953.Jai Gopal Sethi and Naunit Lal for the Appellants in Cr.  A.No. 43 of 1954.Pritam Singh Safeer, for the Appellant in Cr.  A. No. 44  of1954.0.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, PorusA.   Mehta,  H.	 R.  Khanna  and  P.  G.  Gokhale,  for	 therespondent in both appeals.1956.  March 9. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byCHANDRASEKHARA	AIYAR J.-Ram Kishan, the first appellant  inCriminal  Appeal No. 43, is a partnerproprietor in the	firmof  Kundan  Lal	 Raja Ram of Saharanpur.   Prem	 Chand,	 thesecond appellant, is a partner in the firm of Narain  Prasadand  Prem  Chand  in the same place.   The  appellant,	GianChand, is the munim of a firm called Lekh Raj Shambhu  Nath.Some of the Saharanpur merchants, including184the  three  firms, were suspected of exporting	potatoes  atconcessional  rates  on false declarations  or	certificatesthat  they  were seed potatoes.	  Police  investigation	 wasproceeding  in	this connection at  Saharanpur	in  October,1951.  Madan La], Railway Section Officer, examined as P. W.4  in  the case, was deputed by the  Railway  Department  toassist	  the	Special	  Police   Establishment   in	 theinvestigation.	 Labhu	Ram, Railway Parcels  clerk  in	 theRailway at Saharanpur, was deputed by the Station Master  tohelp the Police party.  It is alleged by the prosecution that during the  progressof the investigation, and after the houses and shops of	 theaccused persons had been searched, Ram Kishan took Labhu Ramaside and proposed that the three firms would be prepared topay  Rs. 2,000 if the case was hushed up and that Madan	 Lalwas to be sounded.  Madan Lal refused to have anything to dowith such a proposal, but as the accused persisted in  theiroffer, it was ultimately decided that a trap should be	laidfor  them at Delhi in Madan Lal's house.  It is	 unnecessaryto narrate in detail the steps taken in connection with thisplan.  The trap succeeded.  The three accused and Labhu	 Ramwere  at  Delhi on the morning of the 29th December  and  anincreased sum of Rs. 5,000 was paid in the shape of currencynotes  to Madan Lal by Ram Kishan while two police  officersand  a	Magistrate  were hearing the  conversation  from  anadjoining  room	 and saw the payment through a hole  in	 thedoor.  The  appellants  were charged under section 120-B  of	 theIndian	Penal  Code  for criminal conspiracy  to  cause	 theoffence of criminal misconduct punishable under section 5(2)of  the	 Prevention of Corruption Act (II  of  1947),  to'becommitted  by Madan Lal, one of the  prosecution  witnesses.They  also  stood  charged with an offence  under  the	samesection	 read with section 116 of the Indian Penal Code	 forabetting  the commission of criminal misconduct by the	saidMadan Lal by paying him a sum of Rs. 5,000 by way of illegalgratification, which offence was, however, not committed  byhim.185The  Special  Judge, Delhi, who tried the  case,  found	 theappellants guilty under both heads of charges.	He sentencedRam Kishan to three months' rigorous imprisonment and a fineof  Rs.	 5,000;	 Prem Chand and Gian Chand  to	two  months'rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 1,000 each.  He	 didnot  separately	 convict or sentence the accused  under	 thehead  of  criminal conspiracy.	The High Court	reduced	 thesentence  on Gian Chand to the term of imprisonment  alreadyundergone and a fine of Rs. 500. There	is no dispute that the amount was actually  paid  toMadan  Lal even though he said he could do nothing  to	helpthe  appellants, who begged him somehow to help them out  ofthe impending prosecution.  Evidence has also been given  bythe  Magistrate and the police officers about the  talk	 andthe lower courts have found on the evidence of Madan Lal andLabhu  Ram and the eavesdroppers that Rs. 5,000 was  offeredas  a bribe and not as compensation money in  settlement  ofthe amounts legitimately due to the Railway.An  attack  against the concurrent findings  of	 fact  beingwholly	futile	in  the circumstances, Mr.  Sethi,  for	 theappellants  in Criminal Appeal No. 43 of 1954,	raised	somequestions of law on their behalf.  His first point was	thatsection	 5(2)  of the Prevention of Corruption	Act  (II  of1947),	under which the accused were charged  and  convictedwas  inapplicable to the facts.	 His second point  was	thatMadan Lal was not a " public servant" within the meaning  ofthe Act and hence the charge was unsustainable.	 He urged ashis third point that trap cases of this kind must be sternlydiscouraged  and  deprecated  by  the  courts,	inasmuch  asopportunities  for the commission of offences should not  bedeliberately  created  so  that	 people	 who  yield  to	 thetemptations  of ordinary human nature might- be punished  ascriminaIs;  in	other  words, crimes  committed	 under	suchcircumstances  should  be regarded only as  venial  and	 notheinous.To  appreciate the first contention it is necessary  to	 payattention to the language of section 5 of the186Prevention of Corruption Act, which is in these terms:-  "S. 5(1) A public servant is said to commit the offence ofcriminal misconduct in the discharge of his duty,-  (a)if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to acceptor attempts to obtain from any person for himself or for anyother	person,	  any  gratification   (other	than   legalremuneration) as a motive of reward such as is mentioned  insection 161 of the Indian Penal Code, or (b)if he habitually accepts or obtains or agrees to  acceptor  attempts to obtain for himself or for any other  person,any   valuable	 thing	without	 consideration	or   for   aconsideration  which  he knows to be  inadequate,  from	 anyperson whom he knows to have been, or to be, or to be likelyto be concerned in any proceeding or business transacted  orabout to be transacted by him, or having any connection withthe  official functions of himself or of any public  servantto whom he is subordinate, or from any person whom he  knowsto  be interested in or related to the person so  concerned,or (c)if	he  dishonestly or fraudulently	 misappropriates  orotherwise converts for his own use any property entrusted tohim  or under his control as a public servant or allows	 anyother person so to do, or(d)if  he,  by	corrupt or illegal  means  or  by  otherwiseabusing	 his  position	as a  public  servant,	obtains	 forhimself	 or  for  any other person  any	 valuable  thing  orpecuniary advantage. (2)Any	 public servant who commits criminal  misconduct  inthe   discharge	 of  his  duty	shall  be  punishable	withimprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years,  orwith fine, or with both.(3) In any trial of an offence punishable under	 sub-section(2) the fact that the accused person or any other person  onhis  behalf is in possession, for which the  accused  personcannot	satisfactorily	account, of pecuniary  resources  orproperty disproportionate to his known sources of income maybe187proved,	 and on such proof the Court shall  presume,  unlessthe contrary is proved, that the accused person is guilty ofcriminal  misconduct in the discharge of his  official	dutyand  his conviction therefor shall not be invalid by  reasononly that it is based solely on such presumption. (4)The provisions of this section shall be in addition	 to,and not in derogation of any other law for the time being inforce, and nothing contained herein shall exempt any  publicservant	 from  any proceeding which might, apart  from	thissection, be instituted against him".The object of the Act as set out in the preamble is to	makemore  effective provision for the prevention of bribery	 andcorruption.   A	 new  offence of criminal  misconduct  by  apublic servant is created by section 5 and under sub-section(2) it is made punishable with imprisonment for a term whichmay  extend to seven years or with fine or with	 both.	 Theoffence is of four kinds or categories.	 Bribery as  definedin section 161 of the Indian Penal Code, if it is  habitual,falls  within clause (a).  Bribery of the kind specified  insection 165, if it is habitual, is comprised in clause	(b).Clause (c) contemplates criminal breach of trust by a  publicservant and the wording takes us to section  405   of	 theCode.  It is with clause (d) that we are really concerned inthe present case.It was argued that the intention of the Act was to create bymeans  of clause (d) an offence different from a single	 actof bribery and that it can come into play only when there isno  offer  to give an d acceptance of a bribe  by  a  publicservant.   Before  it can be made applicable there  must  beproof, it was said, that the public servant adopted  corruptor illegal means and thereby obtained for himself or for anyother person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage.	  Toforce  a bribe out of an unwilling person is different	fromthe  acceptance of a bribe from a voluntary giver  and	thatbefore a charge under section 5(1), sub-clause (d) could  besustained,  there must be threat or inducement,	 or  promiseproceeding  from the public servant or duress  or  extortionpractised by188him  to	 obtain	 the  pecuniary	 advantage.   This  argumentproceeds  upon the footing that the Act seeks to create	 andcreates an independent offence distinct from simple bribery.In  one sense, this is no doubt true but it does not  followthat there is no overlapping of offences.  We have primarilyto look at the language employed and give effect to it.	 Oneclass  of cases might arise where corrupt or  illegal  meansare  adopted  or pursued by the public servant to  gain	 forhimself a pecuniary advantage.	The word "obtains", on whichmuch  stress  was  laid	 does  not  eliminate  the  idea  ofacceptance  of what is given or offered to be given,  thoughit  connotes  also an element of effort on the part  of	 thereceiver.  One may accept money that is offered, or  solicitpayment	 of  a	bribe,	or extort the  bribe  by  threat  orcoercion; in each case, he obtains a pecuniary advantage  byabusing	 his  position	as  a  public  servant.	  The	word'obtains' is used in sections 161 and 165 of the Penal Code.The other words	    "corrupt or illegal means" find place insection162.    Apart  from "corrupt and illegal	 means",  wehave also the words "or by otherwise abusing his position asa  public servant".  If a man obtains a pecuniary  advantageby  the abuse of his position, he will be guilty under	sub-clause (d).  Sections 161, 162 and 163 refer to a motive  ora  reward for doing or forbearing to do	 something,  showingfavour or disfavour to any person, or for inducing such con-duct  by  the  exercise of personal influence.	 It  is	 notnecessary for an offence under clause (d) to prove all this.It is enough if by abusing his position as a public  servanta man obtains for himself any pecuniary advantage,  entirelyirrespective  of  motive  or reward for	 showing  favour  ordisfavour.   To a certain extent the ingredients of the	 twooffences  are  common,	no doubt.  But	to  go	further	 andcontend	 that the offence as defined in clause (d) does	 notcome with. in the meaning of bribery is to place too  narrowa  construction	 on the sub-clause.  A	speedy	disposal  ofcorruption  cases  by  special courts, the  benefit  of	 in-vestigation  by	 higher police authorities are some  of	 theprovisions intended for the protection of public   189servants  prosecuted under the Act while they aresubjected also	to increased disabilities, namely, a  longerterm  of imprisonment as punishment and the  application  ofthe presumption referred to in subclause (3.).  In  support  of the contention that Madan Lal	 was  not  a"public	 servant", reference was made to section 137 of	 theIndian	Railways Act.  Under the Act as it stood  before  itwas  amended by Act XVII of 1955, every railway servant	 wasdeemed,	 to  be a public servant only for  the	purposes  ofChapter	 IX of the Indian Penal Code and it was provided  bysub-clause (4) that "notwithstanding anything in section  21of  the	 Indian Penal Code a railway servant  shall  not  bedeemed	to  be a public servant for any of the	purposes  ofthat  Code  except  those mentioned  in	 Chapter  IX".	 Theamended sub-clause (1) is in these terms:  "Every  railway  servant, not being a	 public	 servant  asdefined	 in  section 21 of the Indian Penal  Code  shall  bedeemed to be a public servant for the purposes of Chapter IXand section 409 of that Code".  Sub-section  (4) has now been omitted.  The Prevention  ofCorruption Act provides by section 2 that "For the  purposesof  this  Act, 'public servant' means a	 public	 servant  asdefined in section 21 of the Indian Penal Code".  The resultis that before the amendment, railway servants were  treatedas  public servants only for the purposes of Chapter  IX  ofthe Indian Penal Code but now as the result of the amendmentall  railway servants have become public servants  not	onlyfor the -limited purposes but generally under the Preventionof Corruption Act.  It  has  been	 stated already that a	trap  was  laid	 forcatching the appellants and this circumstance, according  tothe learned counsel for the appellants, should be taken intoaccount in the matter of sentence.  In this connection,	 ourattention   was	 invited  to  the  well-known  and   weightyobservations  of  Lord Goddard, C.J. in Brennan	 v.  peek(1)where his Lord-25(1)  [1947] 2 All E.R. 572.190ship expressed the hope that "the day is far distant when itwill  become  a common practice in this country	 for  policeofficers to be told to commit an offence themselves for	 thepurpose	 of  getting evidence against someone;	if  they  docommit	offences  they	ought  also  to	 be  convicted	 andpunished,  for the order of their superior would  afford  nodefence".  While there is much to be said in support of	 theopinion expressed by the learned Chief Justice, it cannot belaid down as an absolute rule that the laying of traps	mustbe prohibited on the ground that by so doing we hold out  aninvitation for the commission of offences.  The detection ofcrime	may   become  difficult	 if   intending	  offenders,especially   in	 cases	of  corruption	are  not   furnishedopportunities  for  the display of  their  inclinations	 andactivities.   Where  matters  go  further  and	the   policeauthorities  themselves	 supply the money to be given  as  abribe,	severe condemnation of the method is merited, as  inRao  Shiv Bahadur Singh and another v. The State of  VindhyaPradesh(1).See	 also  Ramjanam	 Singh	v.  The	 State,	  ofBihar(2).   But whatever the ethics of the  question  'mightbe,  there  is	no warrant for the view	 that  the  offencescommitted  in  the course of traps are less grave  and	callonly for lenient or nominal sentences.  For  the appellant in the connected Appeal No. 44  it	 wasurged  by his learned counsel that he was only a munim of  afirm  and  not	a  partner or  a  proprietor  as  the  otherappellants  and that it could not be stated of him  that  hewas interested in giving or attempting to give any bribe forhushing	 up  the  case.	 There is, however,  the  clear	 anddefinite  evidence of Labhu Ram that Gian Chand	 came  alongwith  the  appellants to him when the talk about  the  bribetook  place.   He  says	 that on the  morning  of  the	29thDecember,  1951, the three accused who were staying  at	 theCoronation  Hotel,  Delhi, told him that  they	had  amongstthemselves  collected Rs. 5,000 to be paid to Madan Lal	 andthat  in the of Madan Lal all the three accused one  by	 onemade request to Madan Lal to hush up the potato case pendingagainst them.  This(1) [1951] S.C.R. 1098.(2) Cr.	 Appeal No. 81 of 1953.			       191is  corroborated by Madan Lal who states that all the  threeaccused	 said  that the money had been	subscribed  by	themjointly	 and  requested him to accept the same and  get	 thecase  withdrawn.  The case of Gian Chand does not  stand  onany different footing from that of the other appellants.The  convictions and sentences are confirmed and the  appealwill stand rejected.