PETITIONER:DIRECTOR OF RATIONING AND DISTRIBUTION	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE CORPORATION OF CALCUTTA AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:16/08/1960BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)IMAM, SYED JAFFERSARKAR, A.K.WANCHOO, K.N.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1355		  1961 SCR  (1) 158 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1961 SC 112	 (80) RF	    1961 SC 221	 (25,33) R	    1963 SC1241	 (68,65) D	    1963 SC1681	 (15) R	    1964 SC 669	 (12,13,14) R	    1964 SC1781	 (9) R	    1965 SC1061	 (17) O	    1967 SC 997	 (1,2,6,22,24,27,34,44,51,54,56 E	    1968 SC 360	 (2,4) RF	    1976 SC1207	 (162,182) RF	    1988 SC1003	 (2)ACT:Statute,    interpretation    of--State,   if	 bound	  bystatute--Principles   applicable--"  Person",  if   includesState--Calcutta Municipal Act, 1923 (Ben.  III of 1923),  S.386(1)(a)--Constitution of India, Art. 372.HEADNOTE:The  appellant	was using certain premises in  Calcutta	 forstoring	 rice  flour, etc. without taking  out	any  licenseunder s. 386(1)(a) of the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1923.	 Therespondent  filed  a complaint against the appellant  for  acontravention	of  S.	386(1)(a).   The  trial	  Magistrateacquitted  the appellant holding that the provisions  of  s.386(1)(a),  neither  in terms nor by  necessary	 implicationbound  the  Government whom the appellant  represented.	  Inrevision, the High Court held that the Government was  boundby a statute unless the legislature excluded it expressly orby necessary implication.  The High Court declined to followthe decision of the Privy Council in L. R. 73 1. A. 271 thatthe  general  principle	 applicable in	England	 applied  toIndian legislation also.Held,  that the State was not bound by the provisions of  s.386(1)(a) of the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1923, and that	 theappellant   was	  not  liable  to  be	prosecuted   for   acontravention of this section.Per Sinha, C. J., Imam and Shah, jj.--The law applicable  toIndia  before the Constitution was as  authoritatively	laiddown  by  the  Privy Council in L. R. 73  I.  A.  271.	 TheConstitution has not made any change in the legal  position.On the other hand it has clearly indicated that the laws  inforce  before  January	26, 1950,  shall  continue  to	havevalidity  even	in the new set-up except in so far  as	theywere  in  conflict  with  the  express	provisions  of	 theConstitution.	The rule of interpretation of statutes	thatthe State is not bound by a statute unless it is so providedin express terms or by necessary implication, is still	goodlaw.Province  of Bombay v. Municipal Corporation of the City  ofBombay, (1946) L.R. 73 I. A. 271, applied.Bell v. The Municipal Commissioners for the City of  Madras,(1901) I.L.R. 25 Mad. 457, disapproved.The  Corporation of Calcutta v.	 Sub-Postmaster,  DharmatalaPost  Office,  (1948)  54 C. W. N.  429,  United  States  ofAmerica v.159United Mine Workers of America, (1947) 91 L. Ed. 884, UnitedStates	of America v. Reginald P. Wittek, (1949) 93  L.	 Ed.1406,	Less  Larson  v.  Domestic  and	  Foreign   CommerceCorporation,  (1949)  93 L. Ed. 1628 and Roberts  v.  Abern,(1904) I C. L. R. 406, referred to.There  is nothing in the Act to indicate that the State	 wasbound by it by necessary implication, nor is there  anythingin  it to show that if s. 386 were not held to apply to	 theState  the  law would lose it efficacy or that	its  workingwould be hampered in any way.Per  Sarkar, J.-The rule that the crown is not bound by	 theprovisions  of	any  statute unless it	is  directly  or  bynecessary  implication	referred  to is	 really	 a  rule  ofconstruction  of  statutes  and is not	dependent  on  royalprerogatives.	It has been applied by courts in  India	 allalong before the Constitution and there is no reason why  itshould	not  be applied to the	interpretation	of  statutesafter the Constitution.Attorney  General  v.  Donaldson, (1842) 10  M.	 &  W.	117,Coomber V'     justices	 of Berks, (1883) 9 App.   Cas.	 61,Roberts v. Ahern, (1904) I    C.L.R.  406, United States  v.United Mine Workers of America,	  (1947) 91 LEd. 884, UnitedStates v. The State of California, (1936) 80 L. Ed. 567 Bellv.  The	 Municipal  Commissioners for the  City	 of  Madras,(1901) I. L. R. 25 Mad. 457, Mersey Docks v. Cameron, (1865)11  H. L. C. 443 and Coomber v. Justice of Berks,  (1884)  9App.   Cas. 61, Greig v. University of Edinburgh, (1868)  L.R. I H.	  L. (SC.) 348 and Cooper v. Hawkin s. [1904] 2 K. B164, referred  to.Section 386(1)(a) does not bind the Government by  necessaryimplication;  the  fact that certain provisions of  the	 Actexpressly exempt the Government does not raise the necessaryimplication.  Nor would the purposes of the Act be  defeatedif the Government were not bound by it.Hornsey	 Urban	Council	 v. Hennel, [1902] 2 K.	 B.  73	 andProvince of Bombay v. Municipal Corporation, Bombay,  (1946)L.R. 73 1. A. 271, relied on.Per  Wanchoo, J.-The rule of construction which is based  onthe royal prerogative as known to the common law of  Englandcannot	be  applied to India now when there is no  crown  inIndia and when the Common law of England is not	 applicable.The, proper rule of construction which should be applied nowis  that  the  state  is bound by a  statute  unless  it  isexempted expressly or by necessasy implication.Province  of Bombay v. Municipal Corporation of the City  ofBombay, (1946) L. R. 73 1. A. 271, not applied.United States of America v. United Mine Workers of  America,Etc.,  (1947)  91 L. Ed. 384, United States  of	 America  v.Reginald  P. Wittek, (1949) 93 L. Ed. 1406, Jess  Larson  v.Domestic and Foreign160Commerce  Corporation,	(1949) 93 L. Ed.  1628,	 H.  SnowdenMarshall  v. People of the State of New York, (192O)  65  L.Ed.  315  and Guaranty Trust Company of New York  v.  UnitedStates of America, (1938) 82 L. Ed. 1224, referred to.The  Calcutta  Municipal Act, 1923,  does  not	specificallyexempt the State from its provisions, As the State cannot besentenced   to	imprisonment  it  is  exempt  by   necessaryimplication   from  all	 penal	provisions   providing	 forsentences  of  imprisonment  or	 death.	  Further,  where  astatute provides for a fine and the fine goes to the  State,the  State  is	exempted from the  provisions  by  necessaryimplication  as it could never be the intention that such  aprosecution  should  be launched.  The	prosecution  in	 thepresent case is under s. 488 which provides for a fine for abreach	of  s. 386, and the fine when imposed  and  realisedgoes  to the State.  Consequently, the State is exempt	fromthe  penal  provisions	of s. 488 of the  Act  by  necessaryimplication.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 158  of1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedFebruary  9,  1955, of the Calcutta High Court	in  CriminalRevision  No. 282 of 1954, arising out of the  judgment	 andorder  dated  December	15, 1953, of  the  Second  MunicipalMagistrate, Calcutta, in Case No. 2629C of 1952.1960.  Feb. 8, 9, 10.  S. M. Bose, Advocate-General for	 theState of West Bengal, A. C. Mitra, B. Sen, P. K. Bose and D.Gupta,	for  the  appellant.   Three  questions	 arise	 fordetermination  in  this	 appeal: (1) whether State  is	a  "person	"  within  the meaning of s.  386  of  the  CalcuttaMunicipal  Act,	 1923, (2) does the  Constitution  make	 anychange in the principal of prerogative as part of the commonlaw  and  (3)  does Art. 372 of the  Constitution  keep	 theexisting law intact, i. e., the law as declared in L. R.  731.  A. 271 to the effect that the Crown is not bound by	 anystatute	 unless	 it is expressly named or unless it  can  beheld to be included by necessary implication.The word " person " has been held not to include the  State.[A.I.R. 1954 Punj. 49 ; A.I.R. 57 Punj. 150; A.I.R. 53	Nag.35  ;  A.I.R.  1955 Nag. 177 ; I.L.R. 1953 1  Cal.  355;  62C.W.N.	561.  33 Pat. 603 takes the contrary view.]  If	 theword  "	 person	 "  included the  State,  Art.	300  of	 theConstitution would not be161necessary.   How  far the Crown is bound by  a	Statute	 notspecifically naming it is laid down by the Privy Council  inL.R.  73  I.A. 271.  The decision of the Madras	 High  Courttaking	a contrary view in I.L.R. 25 Mad. 457 was not  citedbefore	the  Privy  Council  and is  based  upon  the  wrongassumption  that  common  law changed  with  the  change  oflegislation.  The coming into force of the Constitution doesnot  alter the law as laid down in L.R. 73 I.A. 271,  I.L.R.1958  Mad. 801 and I.L.R. 58 Bom. 635.	Article 372  of	 theConstitution  includes	the  common  law  of  the  land	 andcontinues  the	same  after the coming	into  force  of	 theConstitution.  [I.L.R. 1956 Cal. 26, I.L.R. 1955 Bom.  654].This  common law doctrine of the immunity of the Crown	fromStatutes  not specifically naming it or referring to  it  bynecessary  implication is applicable in United States  also.[52 L. Ed. 82; 65 L. Ed. 315; 82 L.	Ed. 1224].M.   C.	 Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, R.  GanapathyIyer,  R. H. Dhebar and T. M. Sen, for intervener No. 1	 Thequestion  is whether the ancient rule of English common	 lawdeclared  to be applicable to India by the Privy Council  isapplicable  to the construction of s. 386 and it has  to  beexamined  as to what was the position before and  after	 theConstitution.	The High Court has decided that even  beforethe Constitution the principle did not apply in spite of thePrivy  Council decision.  The statute of 1923 must  be	con-strued	in  accordance	with  the  rule	 of   interpretationprevailing  in 1923.  The makers of statute in 1923 did	 notintend to include State in the word " person ". The decisionof the Privy Council was the binding law of the land  unlessthere  was  legislation	 abrogating it or  taking  away	 itseffect.	 Article 372 of the Constitution actually  continuesthe law as laid down in L.R. 73 I.A. 271.  This Article usesthe expression " of the law in force in India " and not	 thewords  " existing law ". The same expression is used  in  s.292  of the Government of India Act and was  interpreted  in[1940] F.C.R. 110.  There  is  nothing in  the	Constitutionwhich takes away    the applicability of the rule.  There isnothing in21162that rule or in its nature repugnant to any provision of ourConstitution.  The rule is illustrated in 152 E.R. 406 and IC.L.R.	406.   The  rule  is  applicable  to  all  forms  ofGovernments and is based on the ground of public policy	 andnot merely on the ground of prerogative. [91 L. Ed. 884;  93L. Ed. 1628].V.   K. T. Chari, Advocate-General for Madras and T.   M.Sen, for intervener No. 4. Supported the Advocate-General ofBengal.H.   M. Seervai, Advocate-General for Maharashtra and R.   H.Dhebar, for intervener No. 5. The word " person " should  begiven its normal meaning.  It does not include the Crown  orthe  State.   It  would not include  the  State	 unless	 thestatute	 would be meaningless without such inclusion.  [L.R.73  I.A. 271 ; I C.L.R. 406].  By " necessary implication  "is  meant  that without the inclusion of the  crown  or	 theState the beneficent purpose of the statute would be  whollyfrustrated. The consensus of judicial opinion in Bombay	 hasbeen  the same as expressed in L.R. 73 I.A. 271.   The	rulehas nothing to do with forms of Government.[93 L. Ed. 1406].Indian	decisions  have uniformly taken this view.  [5	Bom.H.C.R.	23 ; I.L.R. I Bom. 7 ; I.L.R. 14 Bom. 213;  36	Bom.L.R. 820; 37 Bom.  L.R. 499; I.L.R. 2 All. 196].  I.L.R.  25Mad. 457 accepts the rule but says that it does not apply totaxation.    This   was	 a  wrongful  curtailment   of	 theprerogative.  [Halsbury,  Vol.	7, p. 469,  para  98].	 Thejudgments of the Privy Council delivered before January	 26,1950, are binding on all courts in India except the  SupremeCourt  and they are binding till the Supreme Court  takes  adifferent view. [A.I.R. 1953 Cal. 524; A.I.R. 1955 Nag. 293;56  Bom.   L.R.	 1084].	 Government of	India  Act,  s.	 212provided that the judgments of the Federal Court and of	 thePrivy Council shall be binding and shall be followed.S.   M. Sikri, Advocate-General of Punjab and D.  Gupta, forintervener  No. 2. In pre-Constitution statutes the  word  "person	"  could  include  " the Crown	"  but	normally  orordinarily  it would not so include.  In I.L.R.	 1958  Punj.201  it was held that person " included the State of  Punjaband the Union163of  India.   The  rule laid down by  the  Privy	 Council  isequally applicable to a Republic. [25 L. Ed. 194; 65 L.	 Ed.315; 24 L. Ed. 192 and 85 L. Ed. 1071].	 In A.I.R. 1956 Pat.91 the State has been held to be a person.G.   C. Mathur and C. P. Lal, for intervener No. 3.  Adoptedthe arguments of the Advocate-General of West Bengal and  ofthe Attorney-General of India.T.   M. Sen, for intervener No. 6. Adopted the arguments  ofthe  Advocate-General,	Bengal and the	Attorney-General  ofIndia.N.   C.	 Chatterjee,  Sunil K. Basu and Sukumar	 Ghose,	 forrespondents.  Section 386 is directed towards maintenance ofhealthy	 condition  etc. and is a  wholesome  provision	 forsafeguarding  the health of the people by providing for	 thecontrol	 of  storing  houses and for  the  equality  of	 thestores.	  The  financial  aspect, i.  e.,  the	recovery  oflicense fees or fine is inconsequential.  The prerogative ofimmunity from the statutes is only available when the  Stateacts  as  State	 and  not when	it  descends  to  trade	 andbusiness.  State is a person.  Salmond, 11th Edition, p. 35,defines	 person as an entity capable of rights	and  duties.It  has the power to hold and acquire property ; it can	 sueand  be sued [Article 300 of the Constitution ; 60.Punj.  L.R.  546.].  The correct rule of interpretation	is  that  toexempt the State from the operation of a statute there	mustbe express exclusion in favour of the State. [Friedman in 13Modern Law Review, 24].	 The mere fact that the State cannotbe sent to jail, does not indicate that it is not a  person.A  Corporation	is  a  person.	It  is	the  stigma  of	 theconviction that matters and it is not a question of  hurtingthe  State  financially. [1944] 1 K. B. 146;  [1950]  S.C.R.720.  A Corporation can be prosecuted even where mens rea orstate  of  mind is concerned. [Paton on	 Jurisprudence,	 2ndEdition,  p.  279].   Sanctions of criminal  law  should  beavailable against the State for enforcing the law. [72 C. L.R.  409;  Willis'  Constitution Law, p.	 37].	State  is  aperson. [78 L. Ed. 1307; I. L. R. [1951] 1 All. 269].	WhenState  engages in trade or commerce, it must be	 treated  inthe same164way as ordinary citizens. [A. 1. R. 1955 Nag. 177; A. 1.  R.1956 Pat. 91.]	State is not a person only for the  purposesof Art. 14.The doctrine of immunity of States from the operation of itslaws cannot be invoked in the present constitutional set up.The  rule  is based on royal prerogative. [1 C. L.  R.	406;Willis	p. 54].	 The rule springs from the prerogative	thatthe King can do no wrong.  [1920] 2 A. C. 5081.	 There is noone  equivalent to the King now in India and  therefore	 theprerogative  does  not survive.	 Law is a scheme  of  socialcontrol and the command of a superior.	If the State  claimsimmunity,  it  must  be	 exempted  by  express	legislation.Immunity  cannot  be implied.  There  has  been	 progressiverestriction  on the immunity of the State. [78 L. Ed.  1307;90  L. Ed. 326]. I.L. R. 25 Mad. 457 lays down	the  correctlaw.   After the coming into force of the Constitution,	 theHigh  Courts  are  not bound by the judgment  of  the  PrivyCouncil.   All powers are derived from the Constitution	 andno immunities can be implied.Even  if  any  immunity can be implied, then  it  cannot  beinvoked in respect of any trading or commercial activity. [5Bom.   H. C. R. Appendix 1 at p. 13; 78 L. Ed. 1307;  90  L.Ed.  326].  The activity carried on by the State in  storingfood grains etc., and distributing them was trading activityand not exercise of Governmental function.The   State  is	 bound	by  necessary  implication  by	 theprovisions  of the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1.923. There	 areprovisions in the Act which expressly exempt the State	fromtheir operation.  See s. 126.S.   M.	 Bose  in  reply.-Common  law  can  be	amended	  bylegislation.   See s. 4, Hindu Succession Act (30  of  1956)and Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act (78 of 1956).  Thereis  difference between Civil and Criminal liability. [72  C.L. R. 406, at 409, 424, 425].  The State is not carrying  onany  trading  activity	but is acting  in  the	exercise  ofessential  Governmental functions.  [1955] 1 S. C. R.  707].Common law of England was introduced in the Presidency townsby statutes.  See Ormond's Rules of Court; 1. L. R. 61	Cal.841.165H.   M. Seervai, (with the permission of the Court).  It  isa settled rule that if a word is not a term of art, you musttake the ordinary meaning and not go to technical books. [74C. L. R. 1; 90 L. Ed. 396; Halsbury Vol. 7, p. 221].S.   M.	 Sikri, (with the permission of the Court)  referredto Holdsworth History of the English Law,' Vol. 10, p. 354.			       Cur. adv. vult.1960.	August	16.-The Judgment of Sinha,  C.J.,  Imam	 andShah,  JJ.,  was  delivered  by Sinha,	C.  J..	 Sarkar	 andWanchoo, JJ., delivered separate judgments.SINHA C. J.-This appeal by special leave is directed againstthe  judgment and order of the High Court at Calcutta  datedFebruary  9,  1955, whereby that Court,	 in  its  revisionaljurisdiction, set aside an order of acquittal dated December15,  1953, passed by the Municipal Magistrate, Calcutta,  inrespect	 of the prosecution launched by the  Corporation  ofCalcutta, respondent in this Court, against the appellant.The  relevant  facts  are  these.   On	July  1,  1952,	 theCorporation  of	 Calcutta made an  application	for  summonsunder  s.  488	of  Bengal  Act	 III  of  1923,	 which	 wassubstituted by West Bengal Act XXXIII of 1951, against " theDirector of Rationing and Distribution representing the FoodDepartment  of the Government of West Bengal ". The  offencecomplained  of	was  " for using or permitting	to  be	usedpremises  No. 259, Chitpur Road, Upper, for the	 purpose  ofstoring	 rice  etc.,  under the	 provisions  of	 the  BengalRationing  Order, 1943, without a licence under s.  386	 forthe  year, 1951-52, corresponding s. 437 of the C.M.C.	Act,1951  ". Section 386(1)(a) of the Calcutta Municipal Act  isin these terms:-,, No person shall use or permit to be used any premises forany  of the following purposes without or otherwise than  inconformity  with  the  terms of a  licence  granted  by	 theCorporation  in	 this behalf, namely, any  of  the  purposesspecified in Schedule XIX166Item 8 of the said Schedule is " storing, packing, pressing,cleansing,  preparing  or  manufacturing,  by  any   processwhatever,  any	of the following articles and  the  articlesmentioned include rice, flour, etc.The  facts  alleged by the prosecution were  not  denied  inbehalf	of the Department, which was in the position of	 theaccused,  but  it  was contended by  way  of  a	 preliminaryobjection that the prosecution was not maintainable in	law.After  hearing arguments for the parties the  learned  trialMagistrate  passed an order acquitting the  accused  relyingupon  a decision of the Calcutta High Court in the  case  ofThe  Corporation of Calcutta v.	 Sub-Postmaster,  DharamtalaPost Office(1), holding that the provisions of s. 386 of theAct,  neither in terms nor by necessary	 implication,  boundthe  Government.   The respondent moved	 the  Calcutta	HighCourt  in its revisional jurisdiction in  Criminal  RevisionNo.  282  of  1954,  which was heard  by  a  Division  Benchconsisting  of J. P. Mitter and S. N. Guha Ray,	 JJ.   CxuhaRay,  J., who delivered the judgment of the  Court,  Mitter,J., concurring, held that the previous decision of the	sameHigh Court in The Corporation of Calcutta v. Sub-Postmaster,Dharamtala Post Office (1) was clearly distinguishable.	 Thedistinction  pointed out was that the previous	decision  ofthe  Court  had	 relied upon the decision  of  the  JudicialCommittee  of  the Privy Council in Province  of  Bombay  v.Municipal  Corporation of the Citu of Bombay (2), in a	casearising	 before the coming into force of  the  Constitution.As the present case arose after the advent of the  Constitu-tion,  the  High Court did not feel bound by  the  aforesaiddecision  of  the Privy Council and therefore  examined	 thelegal  position	 afresh.  On such an examination,  the	HighCourt came to the conclusion that the Indian Legislature  inenacting  laws acted on the assumption that  the  Governmentwould  be  bound  unless excluded  either  expressly  or  bynecessary implication oftener than on the assumption that itwould  not  be	bound, unless the  Legislature	so  providedexpressly or by necessary implication.	The High Court	tookthe view that the decision of the Division(1) (1948) 54 C.W.N. 429.(2) (1946) L.R. 73 I.A. 271.167Bench  of  the Madras High Court in Bell  v.  The  MunicipalCommissioners  for  the	 City  of Madras  (1)  was  more  inconsonance  with  the law in India than	 the  opposite	viewexpressed  in  the Privy Council judgment  aforesaid.	Theydefinitely  decided that the law of India, even	 before	 thecoming	into effect of the Constitution, 7 and even  at	 thetime  of the passing of the Government of India	 Act,  1935,was that the Government was bound by a Statute unless it wasexempted  either expressly or by necessary implication.	  Inthat  view  of the matter, the High Court  further  observedthat  the  question whether the decision  aforesaid  of	 thePrivy  Council	was  still good law under Art.	372  of	 theConstitution  did  not	arise and that, if it  did,  it	 wasinclined  to  the view that the law declared  by  the  PrivyCouncil	 was  not  continued by any provision  of  law.	  Ineffect,	 the  High Court took the view that  the  State	 wasbound  by  the	Statute	 unless it  was	 excluded  from	 itsoperation either expressly or by necessary implication.	  Inthat  view  of the matter, it held that s. 386	of  the	 Actbound  the appellant, set aside the order of  acquittal	 andsent  the case back to the learned Magistrate  for  disposalaccording  to  law.  The appellant made an  application	 forspecial	 leave	to appeal from the  aforesaid  judgment	 andorder  of  the	High Court, and obtained  special  leave  inSeptember  1955.   It  is  thus clear  that  this  case	 hadremained  pending  in this Court for about five	 years.	  Ifthis Court agreed with the view expressed by the High Court,the  case  would have to be tried on merits  and  the  trialwould  begin more than eight years after the institution  ofthe  petition of complaint, but, as will  presently  appear,this prosecution was misconceived and therefore, in  effect,no  one	 has  been the worse for the long  pendency  of	 theprosecution, which now must come to an end.The  short  question  for determination in  this  appeal  iswhether any offence had been committed by the appellant,  asalleged	 against him.  If he was bound by the provisions  ofthe  Act to take out a licence on payment of  the  necessaryfees, he must be held to have contravened the provisions  ofthat Statute.  It has(1)  (1901) I.L.R. 25 Mad.. 457.168been  contended by the learned Advocate-General	 of  Bengal,representing  the appellant, that the decision of the  PrivyCouncil	 referred  to above is still good law and  that	 thecontrary  decision of the Division Bench of the Madras	HighCourt  (1)  did	 not  take the correct	view  of  the  legalposition.   The argument further is that the  Privy  Councildecision was certainly binding on the Courts in India at thetime  it  was  rendered.  That was the law of  the  land  asdeclared  by  the  highest  judicial  authority.   Has	thatjudicial determination been altered by the Constitution ? Ithas been argued that the law in India, even after the cominginto effect of the Constitution, continues to be the same asthe  law  in England in respect of the prerogatives  of	 theCrown.	 The  Act  in question does  not  make	any  expressprovision  binding the Government and there was	 nothing  inthe  Act to show to the contrary by  necessary	implication.The Act could operate with reasonable efficacy without beingheld  to  be  binding on the  Government.   It	was  furtherpointed out that the High Court had failed to take into con-sideration  the	 fact  that  that  High	 Court	itself	 hadconstrued  the	Calcutta Municipal Act of  1923,  which	 wasreplaced  by  the present Act of 1951, on the basis  of	 thePrivy  Council	decision not to have bound  the	 Government.The  Act  of  1951  did not  make  any	provision  expresslyabrogating  that view.	Hence, it is argued the	 High  Courtshould have felt bound by the previous decision of that veryCourt given on the basis of the Privy Council decision;	 andhad erred in taking the opposite view.	The argument furtherwas that the State is not a person within the meaning of thepenal  section with reference to which the  prosecution	 hadbeen   launched.   The	common	law  could  not	 have	beenoverridden impliedly by a course of legislation.  The commonlaw  applies  to  India even  after  the  Constitution,	 notbecause	 there is the King or the Queen, but because  it  isthe law in force.  In other words, what was the prerogrativeof  the	 sovereign  has now become the law of  the  land  inrespect	 of the sovereignty of the State.  Thus the  law  ofEngland, which(1)  (1901) I.L.R. 25 Mad, 457.169in  its	 source was the prerogative of the  Crown,  was	 thecommon	law of the land and was adopted by the	Constitutionby Art. 372, subject to the reservations contained  therein.The Attorney-General for India as also the Advocates-Generalof  Madras  and Bombay supported the  contention  raised  onbehalf of the appellant.Mr.  N.	 C.  Chatterjee,  who  appeared	 on  behalf  of	 therespondent,  contended that the State is a legal  person  asrecognised  in	Art.  300  of  the  Constitution  and	was,therefore,  capable of rights and obligations;	that  unlessthere	is  an	express	 exclusion  of	the  State  by	 theLegislature,  the  Act	would apply to	all,  including	 theState.	 He  further contended that under  the	Constitutionthere  is  no  King  and, therefore,  there  cannot  be	 anyquestion  of prerogative.  Any exemption from the  operationof  the statute must be found in express immunity under	 thelaw  and  cannot  be  implied.	He went	 to  the  length  ofcontending  that a State's prerogative is inconsistent	withthe  whole Constitution.  Whatever may have been  the  legalposition before the coming into effect of the  Constitution,it  has	 not  countenanced  the	 continuance  of  any	suchprerogative as is contended for on behalf of the  appellant.Another line taken by Mr. Chatterjee is that when the  Stateembarks	 upon  a business, it does so not in  its  sovereigncapacity, but as a legal person, subject to the same  rightsand liabilities as any other person.  In effect,  therefore,he  contended that the State is a person within the  meaningof  s.	386  of the Act; that the doctrine  of	immunity  ofStates	from  the operation of its laws	 cannot	 be  invokedafter  the advent of the Constitution,	and,  alternatively,that  even  if the immunity is available to the State  as  asovereign  power, it is not available to the State  when  itembarked  upon	a commercial undertaking and  that.  in	 anycase, the State was bound by the law by applying the rule ofnecessary implication from the provisions of the Act.In  this  case it is manifest that it is the  Government  ofWest Bengal which is sought to be prosecuted22170through one of its officers.  The prosecution is not againsta  named  person,  but	against	 the  Director	of  a  namedDepartment  of	the  Government.  The  person  who  was	 theDirector of the Department at the relevant date, that is  tosay,  in  the year 1951-52 may not be the  same	 person	 whoanswered  that description on the date the  prosecution	 waslaunched.   In essence, therefore, it is the  Government  ofWest  Bengal which has to answer the charge levelled by	 therespondent,   the  Corporation	of  Calcutta.	 Whether   aprosecution  against such an indeterminate person  would  orwould  not  lie is a matter which has not been	raised	and,therefore,  need  not  be  discussed.	The  question	mostcanvassed before us in whether the penal section invoked  inthis case applies to Government.  It has been contended, andin  our	 opinion rightly, that the provisions of  the  penalsection	  neither   by	express	 terms	nor   by   necessaryimplication  are  meant to be applied  to  Government.	 Thedecision of the Judicial Committee 'of the Privy Council(1),if it is good law even now, completely covers this case, butthe  decision of the High Court, now under examination,	 hastaken  the  view that the earlier decision of  the  DivisionBench  of  the	Madras High Court (2 )	has  laid  down	 thecorrect	 law, and not the Privy Council decision.  We  have,therefore,  to decide which of the two decisions  has  takenthe correct view of the legal position as it obtained on theday the prosecution was launched.It  is	well-established that the common law of	 England  isthat the King's prerogative is illustrated by  the rule thatthe  Sovereign is not necessarily bound by a  statutory	 lawwhich  binds the subject.  This is further enforced  by	 therule  that the King is not bound by a statute unless  he  isexpressly   named  or  unless  he  is  bound  by   necessaryimplication  or	 unless the statute, being  for	 the  publicgood,  it  would  be absurd to exclude	the  King  from	 it.Blackstone  (Commentaries,  Vol.   I,  261-262)	  accuratelysummed up the legal position as follows:-"The  king is not bound by any act of Parliament, unless  hebe named therein by special and(1) (1946) L.R. 73 I.A. 271.(2) [1901] I.L.R. 25 Mad. 457.171particular  words.   The  most general	words  that  can  bedevised...... affect not him in the least, if they may	tendto restrain or diminish any of his rights or interests.	 Forit  would be of most mischievous consequence to the  public,if  the	 strength of the executive power were liable  to  becurtailed  without its own express consent by  constructionsand  implications  of  the subject.  Yet,  when	 an  act  ofParliament is expressly made for the preservation of  publicrights	and the suppression of public wrongs, and  does	 notinterfere  with the established rights of the crown,  it  issaid  to  be  binding  as well upon the	 king  as  upon	 thesubject; and, likewise, the king may take the benefit of anyparticular  act, though he be not specialty named."  (Quotedat p. 355 of Holdsworth, A History of English Law, Vol.	 X).The King's prerogative is thus created and limited by commonlaw and the sovereign can claim no prerogative, except	suchas the law allows. (See Halsbury's Laws of England, Vol.  7,Third Edition, para. 464, at p. 22 1).The prerogative of the Crown in respect of property is	thusstated	in  the same volume of Halsbury's Laws	of  England,para. 980, at p. 465:-"The  Crown  not  being bound by  any  statute	whereby	 anyprerogative right, title, or interest belonging to it may bedivested  or  abridged, unless expressly named or  bound  byclear implication, property owned, and occupied by the Crownis  exempt  from taxation unless rendered liable  either  byexpress	 words	or  necessary  implication.   Moreover,	  anexpress exemption of particular classes of Crown property ina  statute  is	not  in	 itself	 sufficient  to	 raise	 theimplication  that  such property only is  exempt,  and	thatother  property not falling within the exception  is  bound,such clauses being inserted merely ex majore cautela."	Thatwas  the  law applicable to India also,	 as  authoritativelylaid  down  by	the Privy Council in the  case	referred  toabove.	 That decision was rightly followed by the  CalcuttaHigh  Court  as	 stated	 above.	 That  would  be  the  legalposition until the advent of the Constitution.172The question naturally arises: whether the Constitution	 hasmade any change in that position ? There are no words in theConstitution   which  can  be  cited  in  support   of	 theproposition   that  the	 position  has	changed	 after	 therepublican  form  of Government has been adumbrated  by	 ourConstitution.	It  was argued on behalf of  the  respondentthat the existence of such a prerogative is negatived by thevery  form  of	our  new set up, that  is  to  say,  it	 wascontended  that the republican form of Government is  whollyinconsistent  with the existence of such a prerogative.	  Inour opinion, there is no warrant for such a contention.	 Theimmunity  of  Government  from	the  operation	of   certainstatutes,  and particularly statutes creating  offences,  isbased  upon the fundamental concept that the  Government  orits  officers  cannot  be a party  to  committing  a  crime-analogous to the I prerogative of perfection' that the	Kingcan  do	 no wrong.  Whatever may have  been  the  historicalreason	of the rule, it has been adopted in our	 country  ongrounds	 of  public policy as a rule  of  interpretation  ofstatutes.   That this rule is not peculiar or confined to  amonarchical  form  of  Government  is  illustrated  by	 thedecision  of  the Supreme Court of U. S. A. in the  case  ofUnited	States of America v. United Mine Workers of  America(1), where it is laid down that restrictions on the issue ofinjunctions in labour disputes contained in certain statutesdo not apply to the United States Government as an  employeror to relations between the Government and its employees andthat statutes in general terms imposing certain restrictionsor  divesting certain privileges will not be applied to	 thesovereign without express words to that effect.	  Similarly,in  the	 case  of United States of America  v.	Reginald  P.Wittek	(2),  the  question arose whether  the	District  ofColumbia  Emergency  Rent Act  applied	to  government-owneddefence	 housing or to government owned low-rent housing  inthe  District,	and  it	 was ruled  by	the  Supreme  Court,reversing  the decision of the Municipal Court	of  Appeals,that  the  statute in question did not apply to	 the  UnitedStates Government(1) (1947) 330 U.S. 258: 91 L. Ed. 884.(2) (1949) 337 U.S. 346: 93 L. Ed. 1406.173which was not a " landlord " within the meaning of the	Act.The  decision was based on the rule that a  general  statuteimposing   restrictions	 does  not  impose  them  upon	 theGovernment itself without a clear expression or	 implicationto  that effect.  Another illustration of the rule is to  befound  in  the case of Jess Larson v. Domestic	and  ForeignCommerce Corporation (1).  In that case a suit by a citizen,in    effect,	against	  the	Government    (War    AssetsAdministration)	 for  an  injunction was  dismissed  by	 theDistrict  Court	 on the ground that the Court did  not	havejurisdiction,  because the suit was one against	 the  UnitedStates.	 The Supreme Court, by majority, held that the	suitas  against the United States must fail on the	ground	thataccording  to the laws of the country the sovereign  enjoyedan immunity which was not enjoyed by the citizens.  The caseof Roberts v. Ahern (2) is another illustration of the	samerule.	It was held by the High Court of Australia  in	thatcase that the Executive Government of the Commonwealth or ofa State is not bound by a statute unless the intention	thatit shall be so bound is apparent.On  the	 other	hand,  Art.  372  of  the  Constitution	 hasspecifically  provided that subject to the other  provisionsof  the Constitution all the laws in force in  this  countryimmediately  before  the commencement  of  the	Constitutionshall continue in force until altered or repealed or amendedby a competent Legislature or by other competent  authority.The  expression	 " law in force " has been used	 in  a	verycomprehensive  sense as would appear from the provisions  ofsub-  cls.  (a)	 and  (b)  of  cl.  (3)of  Art.	 13  of	 theConstitution.  If we compare the provisions of Art.  366(10)which  defines " existing law " which has reference  to	 lawmade by a legislative agency in contradistinction to "	lawsin  force " which includes not only statutory law, but	alsocustom	or  usage  having  the force  of  law,	it  must  beinterpreted as including the common law of England which wasadopted	 as the law of this country before the	Constitutioncame into force.  It is thus clear that far from(1)  (1949) 337 U.S. 682 : 93 L. Ed. 1628.(2)  (1904) I. C.L.R. 406.174the Constitution making any change in the legal position, ithas  clearly  indicated that the laws in force	continue  tohave  validity, even in the new set up, except in so far  asthey  come  in conflict with the express provisions  of	 theConstitution.	No  such provision has been brought  to	 ournotice.	  That	being so, we are definitely of	the  opinionthat  the rule of interpretation of statutes that the  Stateis  not	 bound	by a statute, unless it is  so	provided  inexpress	 terms	or by necessary implication, is	 still	goodlaw.But  Mr. Chatterjee further contended,	alternatively,	thateven  if  it were held that the Government  as	a  sovereignpower  may have the benefit of the immunity claimed,  it  isnot  entitled  to  that	 immunity when	it  embarks  upon  abusiness and, in that capacity, becomes subject to the penalprovisions of the statute equally with other citizens.	Thisquestion was not raised below and has not been gone into  bythe High Court, nor is it clear on the record, as it stands,that  the Food Department of the Government of West  Bengal,which  undertook  rationing and distribution of	 food  on  arational basis had embarked upon any trade or business.	  Inthe  absence of any indication to the  contrary,  apparentlythis  Department  of  the  Government  was  discharging	 theelementary  duty  of  a	 sovereign  to	ensure	proper	 andequitable distribution of available food-stuffs with a	viewto  maintaining peace and good Government.   Therefore,	 thealternative argument suggested by Mr. Chatterjee has nofoundation in fact.It  only remains to consider the other alternative  argumentthat  even  if	the State has not been bound  by  the  penalsection in the statute in question in express terms, it mustbe  deemed to be bound by it by necessary implication.	 Butno specific provisions of the statute in question have	beenbrought	 to our notice which could lend any support to	thisalternative  argument.	It has not been shown to us that  ifthe  section  which  was sought to be  applied	against	 theGovernment  were held not expressly to apply to	 Government,the  law will lose any of its efficacy, or that its  workingwill be hampered in any way.  It must, therefore, be175held that there is no substance in this contention either.The appeal is accordingly allowed, the judgment under appealset aside and the acquittal of the appellant confirmed.SARKAR	J.-The appellant is an officer of the Government  ofWest   Bengal.	 He  was  prosecuted  before   a   MunicipalMagistrate of Calcutta for storing rice in certain  premiseswithout	 obtaining  a  licence for  that  purpose  from	 therespondent,  the Corporation of Calcutta, as required by  s.386  of the Calcutta Municipal Act, 1923.  That was  an	 Actpassed	by the legislature of the former Province of  Bengaland  may,  for the present purpose, be taken  to  have	beenpassed	by the legislature of the State of West Bengal.	  Instoring	 the  rice the appellant had acted in  his  officialcapacity  and for carrying out the West Bengal	Government'srationing scheme.The Magistrate acquitted the appellant holding that the	 Actdid not bind the Government as it was neither expressly	 norby  necessary implication made bound, and so, the  appellantwho had been prosecuted as representing the Government wouldnot  be liable for non-compliance with its  provisions.	  Onrevision  the High Court at Calcutta held that	the  Englishrule that a statute did not bind the Crown unless  expresslyor  by	necessary implication made bound, did not  apply  toIndian	statutes and so the Government would be	 liable	 forbreach of the provisions of the Calcutta Municipal Act.	  Inthis view of the matter, the High Court set aside the  orderof  acquittal and sent the case back to the  Magistrate	 fordisposal on the merits.	 This appeal has been taken from theorder  of the High Court with special leave granted by	thisCourt.The main question is whether the English rule that The Crownis  not bound by the provisions of any statute unless it  isdirectly  or by necessary implication referred to "  appliesto India.  It is said that the rule is based on the  Englishlaw  of Crown prerogatives and has no application  to  Indiasince the promulgation of our Constitution as we have now  arepublican176form  of government where no question of royal	prerogativescan  arise.  It is pointed out that the prosecution  was  inthis case started since the Constitution came into force andwhatever may have been the position earlier, the  Governmentcan no longer take shelter under the English rule.I   think  the	rule  applies  to  India  even	 after	 theConstitution.	It seems to me that the rule as	 applied  inmodern	times, is really a rule of construction of  statutesand  is	 not dependent on royal prerogatives.  This  is	 theview  that  appears  to	 have  been  taken  in	all   recentauthorities, to some of which I wish now to refer.In Craies on Statutes (5th Ed.) it is stated at p. 392	that"  The	rule is analogous, if not equivalent,  to  the	rulealready	 stated	 that the common law is not presumed  to  bealtered	 by statute ". The rule, therefore, is based on	 thepresumed intention of the legislature and is, hence, a	ruleof  construction  of  statutes.	 Then I find  it  stated  inAttorney-General  v.  Donaldson	 (1) that "  It	 is  a	wellestablished rule, generally speaking, in the construction ofActs  of  Parliament, that the King is not  included  unlessthere  are  words to that effect; for it is  inferred  primafacie that the law made by the Crown with the assent of	 theLords  and  Commons, is made for subjects and  not  for	 theCrown".	  Again in Comber V.  Justices of Berks (2)  it	 wassaid  in  reference to this rule, " In Rex v. Cook,  3	T.R.519,  the  general  principle  as  to  the  construction  ofstatutes imposing charges as containing an exemption of	 theCrown was laid down ". In the Australian case of Roberts  v.Ahern  (3), it was said, "This rule has commonly been  basedon  the Royal prerogative.  Perhaps, however, having  regardto  modern  developments  of  constitutional  law,  a	moresatisfactory basis is to be found in the words of  Alderson,B."  The words referred to are what I have already  set	 outfrom Attorney-General v. Donaldson (1).In America too this rule has been applied as a rule(1)  (1842) 10 M. & W. 117, 123; 152 E.R. 406.(2)  (1883) 9 App.  Cas. 61, 65.(3)  (1904) 1.C.L.R. 406, 417.177of  construction  though  there is no  King  there  but	 thegovernment  is of the republican form.	So in United  Statesv.  United  Mine Workers of America (1) it was	observed,  "There  is an old and well-known rule that statutes which  ingeneral terms divest pre-existing rights or privileges	willnot  be	 applied to the sovereign without express  words  tothat  effect.  It has been stated, in cases in	which  therewere  extraneous and affirmative reasons for believing	thatthe sovereign should also be deemed subject to a restrictivestatute,  that this rule was a rule of construction only  ".Again  in reference to the same rule it was said  in  UnitedStates V. State of California (2).  " The presumption is  anaid  to consistent construction of statutes of the  enactingsovereign when their purpose is in doubt ".In  our country also in Bell v. The Municipal  Commissionersfor the City of Madras(3), a case on which much reliance hasbeen  placed by the respondent, it was said after  referringto  various  English  cases dealing with the  rule,  "	Thisemphatic  statement of the rule being founded  upon  generalprinciples of construction is undoubtedly applicable as muchto Indian enactments as to Colonial or Imperial Statutes  ".It  was also said at the same page, " The rule of  construc-tion  above  adverted  to cannot itself	 be  regarded  as  aprerogative of the Crown ".Then  I	 find  that in England the rule	 protects  from	 theoperation of a statute not only what may strictly be  calledCrown  prerogatives, or whatever is nowadays left  of  them,but  all  the  Crown's	rights,	 title	and  interest:	 seeHalsbury's Laws of England (3rd Ed.) Vol.  VII, p. 465.	  Involume XXXI of the Second Edition of the same treatise it isstated with reference to the rule that, " The Crown for thispurpose	 means	not only the King personally, but  also	 theofficers  of  State and servants of the	 Crown	when  actingwithin	the scope of their authority on behalf of the  Crownin the discharge of executive duties ". In Mersey Docka(1)  (1947) 330 U. S. 258, 272 ; 91 L. Ed. 884, 902.(2)  (1936) 297 U. S. 175, 186; 80 L. Ed. 567, 574.(3)  (1901) I.L.R. 25 Mad. 457, 485.23178v.   Cameron(1),  Lord	Cranworth  after  referring  to	 thevarious instances where the rule had been applied to  exemptbuildings occupied for purposes of the government from ratesand other impositions, said, " These decisions however	haveall gone on the ground more or less sound, that these  mightall be treated as buildings occupied by the servants of	 theCrown,	and for the Crown, extending in some  instances	 theshield of the Crown to what might more fitly be described asthe public government of the country ". Again in Coomber  v.Justices  of  Berks (2), Lord Blackburn after  referring  tocertain	 observations of Lord Westbury in the  Mersey  Dockscase(1)	 said,	"He there says that the public	purposes  tomake an exemption " must be such as are required and createdby the government of the country, and are, therefore, to  bedeemed	part  of the use and service of the Crown;"  and  inGreig  v. University of Edinburgh (3) be more clearly  shewswhat was his view by using this language, "property occupiedby  the servants of the Crown, and (according to the  theoryof  the Constitution) property occupied for the purposes  ofthe administration of the government of the country,  becomeexempt	from liability to the poor-rate "." In this case  itwas  held that lands with buildings constructed thereon	 andused  by county justices, and for police purposes  were	 notliable to income-tax.  In Cooper v. Hawkins (4) it was	heldthat  an  engine-driver employed by the Crown  who  drove  asteam-locomotive  on Crown service at a speed exceeding	 thelimit specified by regulations made under a statute, was notliable	as in the absence of express words, the statute	 didnot bind the Crown.  Lastly, I refer to Roberts v. Ahern (5)where a person acting under the orders of the Government  ofthe Commonwealth of Australia had been prosecuted for havingcarted	away nightsoil from a Post Office without a  licencefrom,  and without having given any security to,  the  localauthority  as was required by an enactment of the  State  ofVictoria.  It was held that he was not liable to prosecutionbecause,(1)  (1865) 11 H.L.C. 443, 508; 11 E.R. 1405.(2)  (1883)  9	App.  Cas. 61, 65.  (3)	 (1868)	 L.R.I	H.L,(SC.)348.(4) [1904] 2 K.B. 164.	    (5) (1904) 1. C.L.R. 406, 417.179"  The	modern sense of the rule, at any rate, is  that	 theExecutive  Government of the State is not bound by  Statutesunless	that intention is apparent: " p. 418.  It  was	alsosaid  that " The doctrine is well settled in this  sense  inthe United States of America: " (p. 418).  It is unnecessaryto multiply instances where acts of the executive governmenthave received the protection of the rule.All  this would seem to put it beyond doubt,  that  whateverits  origin, the rule has long been regarded only as a	ruleof  construction.   It	has  been  widely  used	 to   exemptexecutive  governments from the operation of statutes  quiteapart  from  protecting prerogative rights  of	the  BritishCrown  strictly so called.  It has been held  reasonable  topresume	  that	the  legislature  intended  that   executivegovernments  are  not to be bound by  statutes	unless	madebound  expressly or by necessary implication.  It  would  beequally reason. able to do so in our country even under	 thepresent set up for the presumption has all along been raisedin the past and especially as the applicability of the	rulecan  no longer be made to depend on the prevailing  form  ofgovernment.    In  countries  with  a  republican  form	  ofgovernment, the Sovereign would be the State, and its  acts,which  can only be the acts of its executive limb would	 be,under  the rule exempt from the operation of  its  statutes.Whether	 the  royal prerogative as  understood	in  England,exists	in the present day India is not a question that	 canarise  in  applying what is a pure rule of  construction  ofstatutes.Further it is quite clear that the rule has been applied  bycourts	in India in the construction of Indian statutes	 allalong at any rate upto the promulgation of our Constitution,except	in the solitary instance of Bell's case (1)  earlierreferred  to.  It would therefore be right to hold that	 thelegislatures in our country have proceeded on the basis thatthe  rule would govern the enactments passed by them.	Thatbeing	so  and	 remembering  that  the	 rule  is   one	  ofconstruction,	there  would  be  no  reason  to  deny	 itsapplication to Indian statutes after the Constitution.	 TheDew republican(1)  (1901) I.L.R. 25 Mad. 457.180form  of  government  adopted  by us  would  not  warrant  adeparture from the long established rule of construction.It  was	 then said that the course of legislation  in  Indiawould  indicate	 that it was not intended  even	 before	 theConstitution  that the rule would apply to Indian  statutes.This  contention  was based on Bell's  case(1).	  That	caseseems to me to have proceeded on a basis not very sound.  Onan examination of certain Indian statutes it was said, "  Itis noteworthy that as a general rule government is speciallyexcluded  whenever the Legislature considered  that  certainprovisions of an enactment should not bind the Government ".From  this the conclusion was drawn that "According  to	 theuniform	 course	 of Indian  legislation,  statutes  imposingduties	or  taxes bind Government as much as  its  subjects,unless	the very nature of the duty or tax is such as to  beinapplicable  to the Government ". It seems to me that	thisdecision overlooks the uniform course of decisions of IndianCourts	applying  the  rule in the  construction  of  Indianstatutes.   The legislature must be deemed to have known  ofthese  decisions  and if they wanted to	 depart	 from  theireffect	they would have passed a statute bringing about	 thedesired	 result.   No such statute was ever passed.   It  iswellknown that in these circumstances the legislatures	mustbe  taken to have proceeded on the basis that the  decisionswere correct and the rule was to be applied to the  statutespassed by them.	 That being so, an examination of the courseof Indian legislation would be irrelevant.  The cases  wherethe  Government was expressly excluded must be taken  to  beinstances of exemptions ex majori cautila: see Hornsey UrbanCouncil	 v. Hennel(2).	Furthermore, it seems to me  that  acomparison  of the number of statutes where  the  Governmenthad  been specially excluded from their operation  with	 thenumber where the statutes are silent on the subject, is,  atbest,  a  very unsafe guide for deciding  whether  the	ruleshould be applied to Indian enactments.	 I therefore dissentfrom  the  view expressed in Bell's case(1), that  the	ruledoes not apply in India.(1) (1901) I.L.R. 25 Mad. 457.(2) [1902] 2 K.B. 73.181Now  it seems to me that in storing the rice in the  presentcase,  the Government of West Bengal was performing  one  ofits  governmental  functions.	It  was	 storing  rice	 forpurposes of rationing, that is, making food-stuff  availableto  citizens in time of scarcity.  That such activity  is  apart  of the government's duty is unquestionable.   The	 actfor  which the appellant was prosecuted was,  therefore,  anact  of the West Bengal Government done in discharge of	 itsordinary duties as the government and the rule would preventthe  Act from applying to make the Government liable  for  abreach of it.Then  it  is  said  that the Act  binds	 the  Government  bynecessary implication.	In support of this argument we	werereferred  to certain provisions of the Act  which  expresslyexempted  the Government from their operation.	I am  unableto agree that this raises the necessary implication.  It hasbeen said in Halsbury's Laws of England (2nd Ed.) Vol.	XXXIat  p. 523 that " A general prerogative of the Crown is	 notdeemed	to have been abandoned by implication by  reason  ofthe  specific  exemption in a statute of any  class  of	 theservants  of  the Crown from acting in compliance  with	 theprerogative,  nor by reason of the :fact that the Crown	 hasforegone or curtailed its rights in some other direction  inanother	 part  of  the statute " ; see	also  Hornsey  UrbanCouncil	 case (1) earlier referred to.	 These	observationswould  show the unsoundness of the contention raised by	 therespondent.Lastly,	 it  is	 said that the purpose of  the	Act  was  toprevent adulteration of food-stuffs and this object would bewholly	defeated unless the Government was bound by it.	  Itis  not	 in dispute that if this were so, that	might  be  aground	for holding that the Act bound the  Government.	  Onthis aspect of the case reference may be made to Province ofBombay v. Municipal Corporation of Bombay (2).	I am howeverunable	to hold that the purpose of the Act would be  whollyor  at all defeated if the Government were not bound by	 it.It  seems to me that s. 386 of the Act, the breach of  whichis complained in this case, is concerned with(1) [1902] 2 K.B. 73.(2) (1946) L.R. 73 I.A. 271.182the  use  of  premises	and  not  with	the  prevention	  ofadulteration  of  food-stuffs  as  was	contended  for	 therespondent.   The provisions with regard to adulteration  offood-stuffs  are  contained  in a,  different  part  of	 thestatute.   There is nothing to show that the purpose of	 theAct  would  wholly be defeated if some	premises  were	usedcontrary to the terms of the Act.I would for these reasons hold that the Act did not bind theGovernment  and the prosecution of the appellant for an	 actdone  in  the discharge of his duties as an officer  of	 theGovernment   cannot  be	 maintained.   This  appeal   shouldtherefore  be  allowed and the order of the High  Court	 setaside and that of the Magistrate restored.WANCHOO J.-I have had the advantage of reading the judgmentsprepared by my Lord the Chief Justice and my brother  SarkarJ.  I  agree  with  their  conclusion  but  my	reasons	 aredifferent.   I	therefore proceed to state  my	reasons	 forcoming to the same conclusion.The  facts  have already been stated in the judgment  of  myLord the Chief Justice and I will not therefore repeat them.Suffice it to say that the Corporation of Calcutta initiatedthis prosecution, in substance, of the State of West  Bengalthrough its Director of Rationing and Distribution under  s.488  of	 the Calcutta Municipal Act, No. 111 of	 1923,	(nowequivalent  to	s. 537 of the Calcutta	Municipal  Act,	 No.XXXIII of 1951), for using or permitting to be used  certainpremises  for  the purpose of storing rice, etc.  under	 theprovisions  of the Bengal Rationing Order, 1943,  without  alicence under s. 386 of Act III of 1923, (now equivalent  tos.  437 of Act XXXIII of 1951).	 The State did not deny	 thefacts;	but  it	 was  contended	 on  its  behalf  that	 theprosecution  was  not maintainable in law.   The  Magistrateheld  that the provisions of s. 386 of the 1923 Act did	 notapply  to  the	State  either  expressly  or  by   necessaryimplication and therefore passed an order of acquittal.	 TheCorporation  took the matter in revision to the High  Court,which  distinguished an earlier decision of the	 High  Courtrelied	upon  by the Magistrate and held  that	after  Indiabecame a183democratic  republic from January 26, 1950, the	 High  Courtwas  not  bound by the decision of the Privy  Council  in  asimilar	 matter reported in Province of Bombay v.  MunicipalCorporation  of the City of Bombay (1) and that the rule  ofconstruction  based on the royal prerogative that the  Crownwas  not  bound by a statute unless it was  expressly  namedtherein	 or  at	 any  rate could be  held  to  be  bound  bynecessary implication, did not apply in India after  January26,  1950, and that the true rule of construction  on  whichthe  Indian legislatures acted was that the State  would  bebound  unless  excluded	 either expressly  or  by  necessaryimplication.   The High Court therefore held that s. 488  ofthe  Act  of 1923 read with s. 386 bound the State  and	 setaside  the order of acquittal and sent the case back to	 theMagistrate for disposal according to law.The  most  important question thus is, whether the  rule  ofconstruction  derived from the royal prerogative in  Englandcan still be said to apply in India after January 26,  1950.If this rule of construction based on the royal	 prerogativedoes  not  apply,  it  would  necessarily  follow  that	 theordinary rule of construction, namely, that the State  wouldalso  be  bound by the law like anybody else  unless  it  isexpressly  excluded  or excluded by  necessary	implication,would  apply.	Now the rule of construction  based  on	 theroyal prerogative is a survival from the medieval theory  ofdivine right of Kings and the conception that the  sovereignwas absolutely perfect, with the result that the common	 lawof England evolved the maxim that " the King can do no wrong".  In	course	of time however	 the  royal  prerogative  inEngland	 was  held to have been created and limited  by	 thecommon	law and the sovereign could claim  no  prerogatives,except such as the law allowed nor such as were contrary  toMagna Carta or any other statute or to the liberties of	 thesubject.   The courts also had jurisdiction to inquire	intothe existence or extent of any alleged prerogative.  If	 anyprerogative  was disputed, they had to decide  the  questionwhether	 or not it existed in the same way as  they  decidedany other question of law.  If a,(1)  (1946) L.R. 73 I.A. 271.184prerogative  was  clearly established, they could  take	 thesame judicial notice of it as they took of any other rule oflaw:  (see Halsbury's Laws of England, 3rd Edition, Vol.  7,p. 221, para. 464).The  question  of royal prerogative was also  considered  inAttorney-General v. De Keyser's Royal Hotel Limited(1).	  Itwas  held there in that even where there was prerogative  itcould  be curtailed by a statute, if the statute dealt	withsomething   which  before  it  could  be  affected  by	 theprerogative, inasmuch as the Crown was a party to every	 Actof Parliament.	Thus in modern times, the royal	 prerogativeis the residue of discretionary or arbitrary authority whichat any time is legally left in the hands of the Crown and isrecognised under the common law of England.  Two things	 areclear  from  this modern conception  of	 royal	prerogative,namely,	 (1) that there must be a Crown or King to whom	 theroyal  prerogative  attaches, and (2) that  the	 prerogativemust  be  part	of the common law of  England.	 Both  theseconditions  existed  when  the	Privy  Council	decision  inProvince  of Bombay v. Municipal Corporation of the City  ofBombay	(2)  was given in October 1946; the King  was  stillthere and the Privy Council held that the English common lawrule  of construction applied to Indian legislation as	muchas  to	English	 statutes.  I may mention  however  that  inEngland	 also the rule has come in for criticism by  writersof books on law.  Glanville L. Williams in his treatise on "Crown Proceedings " says at p. 53:"  The rule originated in the Middle Ages, when	 it  perhapshad  some justification.  Its survival, however, is  due  tolittle but the Vis inertiae."Again at 54, the author says-"  With the great extension in the activities of  the  Stateand  the  number of servants employed by it,  and  with	 themodern	idea,  expressed  in  the  Crown  Proceedings  Act,"(compare in this connection Art. 300 of our Constitution), "that the State should be accountable in wide measure to	 thelaw,  the  presumption should be that a	 statute  binds	 theCrown rather than it does not."(1) [1920] A.C. 508.	   (2) (1946) L.R. 73 I.A. 271.185After January 26, 1950, when our country became a democraticrepublic  and the King ceased to exist, it is rather  otioseto  talk  of  the royal prerogative.  It  is  also  well  toremember  that the English common law as such never  appliedto India, except in the territories covered by the  originalside  of the three Chartered High Courts, namely,  Calcutta,Bombay	and Madras, (see Kahirodebihari Datta v.  MangobindaPanda(1) ) though sometimes rules of English common law wereapplied	 by Indian courts on grounds of justice, equity	 andgood conscience.  It seems to me therefore that to apply  toIndian	 statutes   a  construction  based  on	 the   royalprerogative  as known to the common law of England now	whenthere is no Crown in this country and when the common law ofEngland was generally not even applicable, (except in a verysmall  part),  would  be  doing	 violence  to  the  ordinaryprinciple  of  construction of statutes, namely,  that	onlythose  are not bound by a statute who are  either  expresslyexempted  or  must  be	held  to  be  exempt  by   necessaryimplication.In our country the Rule of Law prevails and our Constitutionhas  guaranteed it by the provisions contained in  Pt.	 IIIthereof as well as by other provisions in other Parts:	(seeVirendra Singh and others v. The State of Uttar Pradesh	 (2)).  It is to my mind inherent in the conception of the	Ruleof Law that the State, no less than its citizens and others,is  bound  by the laws of the land.  When the  King  as	 theembodiment of all power-executive, legislative and judicial-has   disappeared  and	in  our	  republican   Constitution,sovereign  power has been distributed among  various  organscreated	 thereby,  it  seems to me  that  there	 is  neitherjustification  nor  necessity  for continuing  the  rule  ofconstruction  based  on the royal prerogative.	It  is	saidthat though the King has gone, sovereignty still exists	 andtherefore  what was the prerogative of the King	 has  becomethe  prerogative  of the sovereign.  There is to my  mind  amisconception here.  It is true that sovereignty must  existunder our Constitution(1)  (1934) I.L.R. 61 Cal. 841, 857.(2) (1955) 1.S.C.R. 415.186but there is no sovereign as such now.	In England, however,the  King is synonymous with the sovereign and so arose	 theroyal	prerogative.   But  in	our  country  it  would	  beimpossible now to point to one person or institution and  tosay  that he or it is the sovereign under the  Constitution.A  further  question  may arise, if one is in  search  of  asovereign  now, whether the State Government with which	 oneis  concerned  here is sovereign in the same  sense  as	 theEnglish	 King (though it may have plenary powers  under	 thelimits	.set  under our Constitution).	This to my  mind  isanother reason why there being no King or sovereign as	suchnow  in our country, the rule of construction based  on	 theroyal prerogative can no longer be invoked.Reliance was placed in this connection on certain cases fromAustralia  and	Canada and also from the  United  States  ofAmerica.  So far as Australia and Canada are concerned,	 thecases are not of much help for the Crown exists there still.Besides in Canada and in most of the provinces of Canada andin New Zealand provisions have been specifically  introducedin the Interpretation Acts laying down that no provision  orenactment in any Act shall affect, in any manner whatsoever,the  rights of His Majesty, his heirs or successors,  unlessit  is expressly stated 'therein that His Majesty  shall  bebound  thereby: (see Street on Governmental Liability ",  atp. 152).In  the	 United	 States also, it is doubtful  if  the  royalprerogative  as	 such is relied on as the basis	 of  certainprinciples  which are in force there.  In United  States  ofAmerica	 v.  United Mine Workers of America, Etc.  (1),	 theSupreme	 Court did say that there was an old and  well-knownrule  that  statutes which in general  terms  divested	pre-existing  rights and privileges would not be applied to	 thesovereign  without express words to that effect.  But  therewas  no discussion of the royal prerogative as such  in	 thejudgment and the rule was called a well-established rule  ofconstruction  only.  Besides the Court went on	to  considerthe words of the statutes under consideration and held	thaton  a proper construction of them the United States was	 notbound.(1)  (1947) 330 U.S, 258: 91 L. Ed. 884187In  United States of America v. Reginald P. Wittek (1),	 theSupreme	 Court	did  say that  a  general  statute  imposingrestrictions does not impose them upon the government itselfwithout	 a clear expression or implication to  that  effect;but this decision was based mainly on the terms of the Statestatute	 there	under  consideration  and  the	 surroundingcircumstances	and  legislative  history  of  the   statuteconcerned.   Another case in the same volume is Jess  Larsonv. Domestic and Foreign Commerce Corporation (2) at p. 1628,where  a suit was brought against an officer of	 the  UnitedStates	and  it	 was held that it was in  substance  a	suitagainst the sovereign government over which the court in theabsence	 of  consent  had  no  jurisdiction.   There  is  nodiscussion  in	this case of the  royal	 prerogative  havingcontinued  in  the United States and the decision  seems  tohave turned on some law of that country which provides	thata suit against the Government could not be tried in a  courtin the absence of consent.  As against these decisions I mayrefer  to H. Snowden Marshall v. People of the State of	 NewYork  (3) to show that royal prerogative as such  is  losingground in the United States, if nothing more.  When  dealingwith the priority of a State over the unsecured creditors inpayment	 of  debts  out of the assets  of  the	debtor,	 theSupreme	  Court	 held  that  whether  the  priority  was   aprerogative right or merely a right of administration was  amatter of local law and the decision of the highest court ofthe State as to the existence of the right and its incidentswould	be  accepted  by  the  Federal	Supreme	  Court	  asconclusive.  Again in Guaranty Trust Company of New York  v.United	States of America (4), the Supreme Court  held	thatthe immunity of the sovereign from the operation of statutesof  limitation,	 although  originally  a  matter  of   royalprerogative,  was  now	based  upon  the  public  policy  ofprotecting the citizens of the State from the loss of  theirpublic rights and revenues through the(1) (1949) 337 U.S. 34693 L. Ed. 1406.(2) (1949) 337 U.S. 68293 L. Ed. 1628.(3) (1920) 254 U.S. 38o65 L. Ed. 315.(4) (1938) 304 U.S. 126: 82 L. Ed. 1224.188negligence  of the officers of the State, showing that	someof  those immunities which in England were claimed as  royalprerogatives, though preserved in the United States, were sopreserved  for	other  reasons.	  Besides  it  must  not  beforgotten  that though the Crown no longer remained  in	 theUnited,	 States	 after the attainment  of  independence	 theAmerican colonies out of which the United States arose	werecolonised by English settlers who carried the common law  ofEngland with them to America with the result that the  firstConstitution  of  some of the States (like New	York)  afterindependence  provided that the common law of England  whichtogether with the statutes constituted the law of the colonybefore independence should be and continue to be the law  ofthe  State  subject to such alterations as  its	 legislaturemight  thereafter make: (see H. Snowden Marshall v.  People,of  the State of New York('), at p. 317).  That may  accountfor the United States recognising some of those	 prerogativerights	which were in force in England; though even so,	 thebasis  for  such recognition is now more the law  or  publicpolicy than any royal prerogative as such.  The position  inour country was somewhat different.  We had the King but thecommon	law of England did not, as already indicated,  applyas a rule in this country.  Now that the King has also gone,there  seems  to  be  no reason	 for  continuing  the  royalprerogatives after January 26, 1950.Further it appears to me that the royal prerogative where itdeals  with substantive rights of the Crown as	against	 itssubjects, as, for example, the priority of Crown debts	overdebts  of the same nature owing to the subject, stands on  adifferent footing from the royal prerogative put forward  inthe  present  case, which is really no more than a  rule  ofconstruction  of statutes passed by Parliament.	 Where,	 forexample,  a  royal prerogative dealing	with  a	 substantiveright  has  been  accepted  by	the,  Courts  in  India	  asapplicable  here also, it becomes a law in force which	willcontinue  in  force under Art. 372(1) of  the  Constitution.But(1)  (1920) 254 U.S. 380; 65 L. Ed. 315.189where the royal prerogative is merely a rule of constructionof  statutes based on the existence of the Crown in  Englandand  for  historical  reasons,	I  fail	 to  see  why  in  ademocratic  republic,  the  courts  should  not	 follow	 theordinary  principle  of construction that no one  is  exemptfrom the operation of a statute unless the statute expresslygrants	the exemption or the exemption arises  by  necessaryimplication.   On the whole therefore I am of  opinion	thatthe proper rule of construction which should now be applied,at  any	 rate after January 26, 1950, is that the  State  inIndia whether in the Centre or in the States is bound by thelaw  unless there is an express exemption in favour  of	 theState	or  an	exemption  can	be  inferred  by   necessaryimplication.   The view taken by the Calcutta High Court  inthis connection should be accepted and the view expressed bythe  Privy  Council  in	 Province  of  Bombay  v.  MunicipalCorporation  of the City of Bombay (1) should no  longer  beaccepted as the rule for construction of statutes passed  byIndian legislatures.Let me then come to the question whether on the view I	havetaken  of the rule of construction, the prosecution in	thiscase  can be allowed to continue.  There is nothing  in	 theAct  of	 1923  or in the Act of	 1951  exempting  the  Statespecifically  from  any of the provisions  of  the  CalcuttaMunicipal  Act.	 In this case the State is being  prosecutedunder  s. 488 (or s. 537 now) and that section provides	 forfine for breach of s. 386 (or s. 437 now).  The provision isa penal provision' and immediately a question arises whetherthe  State  as such, apart from its individual	officers  asnatural persons, is liable to prosecution under the criminallaw  or	 has  to  be exempted  from  the  operation  of	 theprovisions of criminal statutes by necessary implication.  Acriminal proceeding generally ends with punishment which maybe imprisonment, or fine, or both.  Now it does not  requireany  elaborate	reason	to realise that the  State  as	suchcannot be sentenced to imprisonment because there is no	 wayof(1)  (1946) L.R. 73 I.A. 271.190keeping	 it in prison; therefore, by necessary	implication,the  State is exempt from all penal statutes and  provisionsproviding for sentences of imprisonment or death.  Then comethose penal provisions which impose fines, like the  presentcase,  and the question is whether in such a case  also	 theState  must be deemed by necessary implication to be  exemptfrom  the  penal provision.  Generally speaking	 fines	wheninflicted by courts are realised by the State and go to	 thecoffers of the State.  In effect, therefore if the State  assuch is to be prosecuted under a penal statute imposing finethe result is that the Court will sentence the State to finewhich  will go to the State itself.  It is obvious  that  ifsuch is the result of a prosecution, namely that the accusedgets  the  fine, the intention could never be  that  such  aprosecution should be launched.	 Therefore where the penaltyis fine and the fine goes to the State, it must be held thatby  necessary implication the law does not intend the  Stateto be prosecuted for such an offence.  In the present case Ifind  that  under s. 81 of the Act of 1923 (or	the  corres-ponding s. 115 of the Act of 1951) the fines imposed by	 theMagistrate  will not go to the Corporation but in the  usualway  to the State.  Under the circumstances  whatever  othermethods	 may be possible for enforcing the provisions of  s.386 (or s. 437 now) against the State it cannot be  intendedto be enforced by prosecution resulting in fine which  wouldgo  to the State itself.  In these circumstances it must  beheld that by necessary implication the State is exempt	fromthe  penal provisions contained in s. 488 (now s.  537).   Iwould therefore allow the appeal, set aside the judgment  ofthe  High  Court and restore the order of acquittal  by	 theMagistrate.					Appeal allowed.191