PETITIONER:M/S.  LIPTON LIMITED AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THEIR EMPLOYEESDATE OF JUDGMENT:02/02/1959BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.IMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1959 AIR  676		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 150 CITATOR INFO : R	    1963 SC1327	 (6) R	    1963 SC1332	 (7) RF	    1966 SC 305	 (46)ACT:       Industrial  Dispute-Bonus-Fixation of grades and	 scales	 of       Pay-Company with head office in England and branch in India-       Employees in the Delhi Office-Claim to bonus on the basis of       global  Profits-Revision of  wage  structure-Principle-Bonus       and  Wage, distinction-Jurisdiction of the Tribunal to  make       an  award in respect of employees of Delhi  office  employed       outside State of Delhi.HEADNOTE:The  appellant	company	 was  incorporated  in	the   UnitedKingdom,  with	its  registered office	in  London  and	 itsbusiness  in  the  United Kingdom consisted  of	 stores	 andgroceries, including tea which represented only about 10% ofits business there.  Its operations in India were carried onby  a  branch  with its head office  in	 Calcutta,  and	 thebusiness there consisted mainly in the sale of " packeted  "tea throughout India.  The Delhi office of its Indian branchcontrolled the salesmen and other employees employed in	 thePunjab, Delhi State, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, but had noconnexion with the export side of the business.	 The  IndianBranch	had no subscribed capital nor any reserves, and	 thecapital used in India was money advanced from the  company'sfund in England.The  dispute between the respondents who were the  employeesof the Delhi office and the company related, inter alia,  to(1)  fixation  of  grades and scales  of  pay;	(2)  whetherretrospective  effect should be given to the new scales	 of,pay;  and  (3)	bonus for the year  1951.   The	 respondentscontended  that	 the total global profits of  the  appellantcompany	 should form the basis for determining the claim  tobonus on the ground that it was an integrated industry whichhad  trading activities in various countries.  The  Tribunalfound that the Indian workmen did not in any way  contributeto the profits which the appellant company derived from	 itsex-India   business,  that  the	 Indian	 branch	  maintainedseparate accounts which had been audited and accepted by theIncome-tax authorities as showing the profit and loss of theIndian	branch	of  the business, and that  though,  at	 therelevant  time, the appellant company was one  legal  entityand  the capital of the Indian branch came from London,	 theIndian	branch	was  treated as a separate  entity  for	 allpractical purposes.  The Tribunal also found that for 195  Ithere was no available surplus for distribution as bonus  tothe employees in India.	 In the matter of fixation of gradesand  scales  of pay, the Tribunal found	 that  the  existingscale  of  wages of the Delhi employees was  far  below	 thestandard of a living wage, and for fixing the wage level  ittook into consideration the company's global capacity to payand came to the conclusion that having regard to its global151resources  the	company	 was  financially  able	 to  bear  aslightly  higher wage structure.  Accordingly, the  Tribunalrevised	 the  grades  by giving an increase of	20%  to	 allworkers.  As to the date from which the revised grades	wereto take effect, the Tribunal directed that they should	haveretrospective  effect  from  January  1,  1954,	 instead  ofJanuary 1, 1953, as claimed by the Union.The  appellant contended that the Tribunal erred  in  takinginto  consideration  the global financial resources  of	 thecompany	 in  support of an increase in wages  while  holdingthat the Indian branch was a separate entity for the paymentof bonus, that the financial resources of the Indian  branchdid not show any capacity to pay higher wages, and that,  inany  case, there was no reliable evidence to show  that	 theexisting wage structure required revision if it was comparedto  the	 wage structure in similar industries in  the  Delhiregion.	  A  question  was also raised	as  to	whether	 theIndustrial  Tribunal,  Delhi, had jurisdiction	to  make  anaward  in respect of employees of the Delhi office who	wereemployed outside the State of Delhi.Held:	  (1)  that  on the finding that  the  Delhi  officecontrolled  all its employees in the matter of	appointment,leave,	transfer,  supervision, etc.,  whether	employed  inDelhi  State or outside it, the Industrial Tribunal,  Delhi,had  jurisdiction to adjudicate on the dispute	between	 theappellant  company and its workmen of the Delhi	 office,  asthe  Delhi State Government was the  appropriate  Governmentwithin the meaning of s. 2 of the Industrial Disputes,	Act,1947,  and  under  s. 18 of the Act the award  made  by	 theTribunal  was binding on all persons employed in  the  Delhioffice;(2)  that  in the circumstances in which the appellant	com-pany  operated	in  India at the relevant time	and  on	 thefinding	 that  no  part of the profits	made  in  India	 wasdiverted to England and that the Indian business depended onits  own trading results the global profits of	the  companycould  not  be made the basis for awarding bonus  to  Indianworkmen,  and that the latter can claim bonus only if  therewas an available surplus of profits of the Indian business;Muir  Mills  Co. Ltd. v. Suti Mills Mazdoor  Union,  Kanpur,[1955] 1 S.C.R. 991, Ganesh Flour Mills Co. Ltd v. Employeesof  Ganesh Flour Mills, A.I.R. 1958 S.C. 382, Burn and	Co.,Calcutta  v. Their Employees, [1956] S.C.R. 781	 and  BarodaBorough	 Municipality  v.  Its workmen,	 [1957]	 S.C.R.	 33,referred to.(3)  that  in determining the question of a revision of	 thewage  scale, the relevant considerations were : (1)  whetherthe  existing wage structure required revision by reason  ofits being below the standard of living wage, and (2) whetherthe industry could bear the additional burden of an increasein  the	 wage scale on the basis of  industry-cum-region  byreason of its financial resources in India ; that judged  bythe considerations stated152above,	it  could  not be said that the	 Tribunal  erred  inrevising  the  wage structure on the basis of  the  evidenceadduced	 before it ; and that the increase in the wages	 wasnot  beyond  the  financial  resources	of  the	 company  asdisclosed by its trading results in India.There is a distinction between bonus and wage.	Bonus  comesout of profits and is paid, if after meeting prior  charges,there  is  an available surplus.  Wages	 primarily  rest  oncontract and are determined on a long term basis and are notnecessarily dependent on profits made in a particular year.Crown  Aluminium Works v. Their Workmen, [1958]	 S.C.R.	 651and Express Newspapers (Private) Ltd. v. The Union of India,[1959] S.C.R. 12, relied on.(4)  that  the	new  scales of pay should  be  brought	intoeffect from November 1, 1955, instead of January 1, 1954, asdirected by the Tribunal.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE, JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 713 to 715of 1957.Appeals	 by special leave from the judgment and order  datedMay  25,  1956, of the Labour Appellate	 Tribunal  of  India(Lucknow  Bench)  in Appeals Nos. 111-272, 282	and  327  of1955, arising out of an Award dated August 18, 1955, of	 theAdditional Industrial Tribunal, Delhi.M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, B. Sen and  S.N. Mukherjee, for the appellants.A.   V.	 Viswanatha  Sastri  and Janardan  Sharma,  for	 therespondents.1959.	February 2. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyS.   K.	 DAS, J.-These are three appeals by  special  leave.The  appellant in all the three appeals is a company  calledMessrs.	  Lipton Ltd., London, having an office at Asaf	 AliRoad,  New  Delhi (hereinafter referred to  as	the  Lipton,Ltd.). The respondents are the employees of the Delhi officeof the said Lipton, Ltd. represented by the Lipton EmployeesUnion (hereinafter referred to as the Union).  On April	 14,1958, a petition was filed on behalf of the appellant for anamendment  of the cause title of the three appeals,  whereinit  was stated that as a matter of internal arrangement	 theBoard of Directors of the153Lipton Ltd., London, decided to separate the export side  ofits  business  from  its internal trade in  respect  of	 itsbranch	in India and on April 4, 1957, a  separate  sterlingcompany called Lipton (India) Ltd., was incorporated in	 theUnited	Kingdom and this new Company took over the  internalside  of the business in India on and from January 5,  1958,but the export side of the business continued to be a branchof  the	 Lipton	 Ltd., London.	Pursuant  to  the  aforesaidarrangement,  the  employees  of the  Delhi  office  of	 theLipton,	 Ltd.,	were notified of the formation	of  the	 newCompany and on and from January 5, 1958, their services weretransferred to Lipton (India) Ltd., on condition that  theirservices  would be treated as continuous, uninterrupted	 andon  the same terms as before.  On the aforesaid	 statements,the  appellant	made a prayer that the cause  title  of	 thethree  appeals	should	be amended  by	substituting  Lipton(India)	 Ltd.  in place of Lipton, Ltd.	  We  directed	thatLipton	(India)	 Ltd.  be added as  one	 of  the  appellantswithout prejudice to either party on the merits of the case.Two of the appeals (Civil Appeals Nos. 713 and 714 of  1957)were consolidated by an order of this Court, and they  raisecertain	 common	 questions with regard to  (1)	fixation  ofgrades and scales of pay of the respondent-employees and (2)bonus for the year 195 1. The third appeal (Civil Appeal No.715  of	 1957)	raises a somewhat  different  question	withregard to overtime payment and is directed against an  orderof the Additional Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, dated  October15,  1955, by which the Tribunal made a modification in	 itsaward dated August 18, 1955, in respect of overtime payment.It  will  be convenient if Civil Appeal No. 715 of  1957  isdealt with separately from the other two appeals.It is necessary now to state very briefly some of the  factswhich  have given rise to these three appeals.	The  Lipton,Ltd.,  is  a  company incorporated  in	England	 having	 itsregistered  office  in London.	Its business in	 the  UnitedKingdom	 consists  of stores and  groceries,  including	 teawhich represents only about2015410%  of	 its business there.  Its operations  in  India	 arecarried	 on  by a branch with its head office  in  Calcutta.This  branch,  which may be conveniently called	 the  Indianbranch, has been operating in this country for more than  60years.	The company is principally interested in the sale of" packeted " tea throughout India together with small  salesof imported tinned milk and also in the export of tea to allparts of the world.  The Lipton, Ltd., does not own any	 teagardens	 in  India  and has no	financial  interest  in	 theproducing side of the industry.	 All the teas which are soldin India or which are exported are purchased from  producersin  India,  either through public auctions in  Calcutta	 andCochin	or  by	private	 contract.   It	 has  factories	  inCalcutta, Allahabad and Conoor in which teas are blended andpacked	into retail packets for sale throughout	 India.-  It-sells	tea  direct to retail dealers and,  with  relativelyminor  exceptions,  does not  operate  through	wholesalers.Dealers	 are supplied by the company's own salesmen each  ofwhom  has a sales depot at which he maintains stocks of	 thecompany's  products.  The salesman sells these teas  at	 thecompany's  wholesale prices- to dealers for cash and  remitsthe  cash through banking channels to Calcutta.	  The  salesOrganisation is controlled through six offices, one of whichis located at Delhi.  The Delhi office controls the salesmenand  other  employees employed in the Punjab,  Delhi  State,Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh on its. business; but the  Delhioffice	has  no	 connexion  with  the  export  side  of	 thebusiness.   So far as the export business is  concerned,  itconsists  of  two different types of trade  activities.	  Insome  foreign countries the Indian branch sells	 packet	 teaunder the Lipton label on which it is able to make a profit;these  profits appear in the accounts of the Indian  branch,which  are separately maintained and audited.  This type  oftrade  activity is mostly confined to Burma, Iraq, Iran	 andcertain	 small Middle East countries.  The greater  part  ofthe export trade, however, consists of purchases made at theCalcutta auctions on behalf of overseas buyers, who  utilisethe  services  of  Lipton's  expert  tea  tasting  staff  inCalcutta155to  buy tea on their account at the auctions and the  Indianbranch	is remunerated for this service by the payment of  acommission  of	one  per cent.	The  Indian  branch  has  nosubscribed   capital  nor  any	reserves.   A.	W.   Samuel,Administrator,	Lipton,	 Ltd., thus explained  the  positionwith  regard  to  the capital of the Indian  branch  in	 hisevidence:-"  Our	Company has no subscribed capital in India  nor	 anyreserves.  The capital used in India is money advanced	fromthe  company's	fund  in England, and  the  amount  of	thisadvance at the balance sheet date is shown as the balance ofthe current account with the Liptons Ltd., London.  We	havealso  to resort to overdraft on the local banks to meet	 theworking capital demand in India ".It  appears that an account is maintained which is known  asthe London General Account and the capital which enables theIndian branch to operate in India is recorded as the balanceof the current account in the Indian books and to  determinethe  amount of capital employed in India a daily average  ofthe current account has to be taken and the working  capitalof  the	 Indian	 branch is the amount  by  which  the  fixedcurrent assets exceed the total liabilities.The  Delhi  office  of	the  Indian  branch  employs  peons,sweepers,  van-workers,	 godown workers,  village  salesmen,drivers,.  junior  clerks, godown  keepers,  senior  clerks,stenographers,	divisional salesmen and other categories  ofworkers, details whereof need not be set out in full at thisstage.	The case of the Union was that as far back as  June,1951,	the  workers  of  the  Delhi  office  had   made   arepresentation	for an increase in pay;	 the  representationwas  repeated  in April, 1952.	As the	management  did	 notaccede	to  their request a union of  Lipton  employees	 wasformed	in September 1953.  This Union framed a	 charter  ofdemands and submitted it in December, 1953.  The charter  ofdemands	 consisted  of a large number of items	and  as	 themanagement contended that it %,as not in a position to	meetthe  demands,  certain	conciliation  proceedings  followed.They,  however, came to nothing and on October 1, 1954,	 theindustrial dispute156between the Lipton, Ltd., and the Union was referred to	 theAdditional  Industrial	Tribunal, Delhi,  for  adjudication.The reference set forth in a sub-joined schedule the mattersupon  which  adjudication was necessary,  and  the  schedulecontained  twenty  terms of reference out of which  the	 twoitems  with  which  we	are now	 concerned  related  to	 (a)fixation of grades and scales of pay including the  questionwhether the new scales should be given retrospective  effectfrom  January 1, 1953, and (b) bonus for each of  the  years1951, 1952 and 1953.  After hearing the parties the Tribunalmade its award on August 18, 1955.  It disallowed the  claimof bonus, but as to the fixation of grades and scales of payit allowed an increase of about 20 per cent. to all  workersover  their present wages and proportionate increase in	 thedearness  allowance,  details whereof we shall	state  at  alater stage.  As to overtime payment which was item no. 8 ofthe terms of reference the Tribunal said:-" Since the company is allowed by law to take 48 hours	workin  a  week from its employees, it is only fair	 that  if  aworker puts in over-time work in any week within a -total of48 working hours, he should be only paid at the single	ratefor  all  over-time work that he puts in between 39  and  48hours in the week.  If the over-time work done by the workerbrings his total working, hours during the week to more than48 hours, any excess over-time work above 48 hours should bepaid at double the rate.  I direct accordingly."It  may	 be stated here that there was a dispute  about	 theworking	 hours	also and the Tribunal  changed	the  workinghours  from 9-30 a.m.-5 p.m. to 10 a.m.5 p.m.  on  week-dayswith  half  an hour's interval for lunch, and 10 a.m.  to  Ip.m.  on Saturdays-thus bringing the total to 36 hours in  aweek,.	 The question of over-time arose only if  a  workmanwas  asked to Work in excess of the working hours  fixed  bythe  Tribunal.	 On  October 12, 1955,	the  Union  made  anapplication  in	 which	it stated that the  figure  "  39  "occurring in paragraph 24 of the award relating to over-timepayment was obviously a mistake for " 36 "; because the157learned	 Tribunal  had fixed. in paragraph 23 of  the  awardthat  the  working hours of a workman should be 36  hours  aweek.	The  learned Tribunal  considered  this	 applicationwithout	 any notice to the present appellant  and  correctedthe  error  by amending the figure 39 to 36.   The  Tribunalproceeded  on  the footing that the mistake was	 a  clericalerror  due  to an accidental slip which could  be  correctedunder  r.  23 of the Industrial	 Disputes  (Central)  Rules,1947.Against	 the award of the Industrial Tribunal three  appealswere taken to the Labour Appellate Tribunal (Lucknow Bench).The two main appeals before the Appellate Tribunal,  namely,No.  272  of  1955 and No. 282 of 1955, were  filed  by	 theLipton, Ltd., and the Union respectively and related to	 thevarious	 items	of  the	 terms of  reference  on  which	 theIndustrial  Tribunal  had  given its  decision.	  The  thirdappeal, No. 327 of 1955, related to the subsidiary matter ofover-time  payment regarding which the	Industrial  Tribunalhad  amended its award.	 So far as the two items with  whichin  Civil  Appeals  Nos.  713 and 714 of  1957	we  are	 nowconcerned,  the	 Labour Appellate Tribunal in  its  decisiondated  May 25, 1956, upheld the decision of  the  IndustrialTribunal  as respects fixation of grades and scales  of	 paycomprised  in the term of reference numbered 1 (a); it	alsoupheld	the  decision  of the Industrial  Tribunal  to	giveretrospective  effect to the new scales of pay from  January1, 1954, which was covered by the term of reference numberedI  (b).	  As  to bonus, which was item 4  of  the  terms  ofreference, the Appellate Tribunal upheld the decision of theIndustrial  Tribunal with regard to the years 1952 and	1953but for 1951 it awarded an extra two months salary as  bonusfor that year in addition to the bonus of one month's salarywhich the Lipton, Ltd., had already granted ex gratia to theworkmen.  As to the subsidiary appeal relating to the  over-time payment, the Appellate Tribunal agreed with the view ofthe Industrial Tribunal that there was an error in computingthe working hours and the error being of a clerical  nature,it was open to the Tribunal to correct it.From the decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal158in  the	 three appeals in question, the	 appellant  obtainedspecial leave to appeal to this Court on June 27, 1956,	 andin  pursuance  of  the order of	 this  Court  granting	suchspecial leave, the present appeals have been preferred.Civil  Appeal  No.  715 of 1957.  It is	 now  convenient  todispose of Civil Appeal No. 715 of 1957. We have no doubt inour mind that the error in computing the working hours	withregard	to over-time payment was due to an 'accidental	slipin  making  the calculation; it was nothing but	 a  clericalerror which the Industrial Tribunal was entitled to  correcteven without notice to the appellant.  The learned Attorney-General	 who  appeared	for the	 appellant  in	these  threeappeals has not pressed Appeal No. 715 of 1957.	 This appealmust accordingly be dismissed with costs.Civil Appeals Nos. 713 and 714 of 1957.	 We now turn to	 theother  two  appeals, namely, Civil Appeals 713	and  714  of1957.	We  have already stated that the only  points  whichsurvive for decision are those relating to items 1(a),	1(b)and  4	of the terms of reference.  These  items  relate  tofixation of grades and scales of pay, whether  retrospectiveeffect	should be given to the new scales of pay, and  bonusfor  1951.   The other items of the award relating  to	Citycompensatory allowance, leave, holidays, etc., have not beenchallenged  before  us.	 We are, therefore,  saying  nothingabout  those  items  of the award,  which  must	 necessarilystand.	 It may be made clear, however, at this	 stage	thatone  of the points taken before the Industrial	Tribunal  onbehalf-of the Lipton, Ltd., was that the Industrial Tribunalhad no jurisdiction to make an award in respect of employeesof  the Delhi office who were employed outside-the State  ofDelhi.	 This point of jurisdiction was decided against	 theappellant  and the Industrial Tribunal pointed out that	 allthe  workmen  of the Delhi office, whether  they  worked  inDelhi or not, received their salaries from the Delhi office;they were controlled from the Delhi office in the matter  ofleave,	transfer,  supervision, etc.,  and,  therefore,	 theDelhi State Government was the appropriate Government withinthe meaning of s. 2 of the Industrial159Disputes  Act,	1947, relating to the  dispute	which  arosebetween	 the Lipton, Ltd., and the Union and under s. 18  ofthe  said Act the award made by the Tribunal was binding  onall  persons  employed in the Delhi office.   The  AppellateTribunal  upheld the decision of the Industrial Tribunal  onthis  point  and though this question  of  jurisdiction	 wasraised	in  the	 appeals before us,  it	 was  not  seriouslypressed by the learned AttorneyGeneral.	 We are of the	viewthat the Industrial Tribunal had jurisdiction to  adjudicateon the dispute between the Lipton, Ltd., and its workmen  ofthe Delhi office.Now, we go on to the two main points urged on behalf of	 theappellant.  We take up first the question of bonus.  Item  4of the terms of reference related to bonus and the claim  ofthe Union was made in two parts.  Item 4 reads thus:-"  Bonus:  (a) Whether every workman be, paid bonus  at	 therate  of 5 months' salary for each of the years	 1951,	1952and  1953  and what other directions are necessary  in	thisrespect ?(b)  Whether special bonus equivalent to three months salaryshould	be  paid to all workmen in honour of  the  company'sDiamond Jubilee celebration for the year 1953 ? "Before	the Industrial Tribunal the claim of the  Union	 wasthat the total global profits of the Lipton, Ltd., should bethe  basis  for	 determining  the  claim  to  bonus  ;	 thecontention  on	behalf	of the Lipton, Ltd.,  was  that	 theprofits	 of  the Indian business only should be	 taken	intoaccount	 in assessing any available surplus for the  paymentof bonus.  The Industrial Tribunal held that as both  labourand  capital  contributed to the earnings of  an  industrialconcern,  labour  must	have its  legitimate  share  of	 theprofits	 to  which it has contributed; since,  however,	 theemployees  of  the  Lipton, Ltd., in India  do	not  by	 anystretch of reasoning contribute to the profits which  accrueto  the Lipton, Ltd., in respect of its	 trading  activitiesoutside India, the employees in India cannot claim bonus  onaccount	 of any profits which the Lipton, Ltd., derive	fromits ex-India business.	On this footing the160Industrial  Tribunal  considered the question of  bonus	 andheld  that  for	 1951 there was	 no  available	surplus	 fordistribution   as  bonus  to  the  employees  in  India	  inaccordance with the formula evolved by the Full Bench of theLabour Appellate Tribunal in Millowner's Association, Bombayv.  Rashtriya  Mill Mazdoor Sangh (1) generally	 though	 notcompletely approved by this Court in Muir Mills Co' Ltd.  v.Suti Mills Mazdoor Union, Kanpur (2).  For 1952 and 1953 theclaim of the Union for bonus, the Industrial Tribunal  held,was  still  weaker, because in those years there  was  stillless  available	 surplus for distribution as  bonus  to	 itsworkers,  and so far as the second part of the claim of	 theUnion,	namely,	 Diamond Jubilee bonus,	 was  concerned	 theIndustrial  Tribunal  rejected	it  outright.	The   LabourAppellate  Tribunal substantially affirmed the	decision  ofthe  Industrial	 Tribunal and gave several reasons  why	 theglobal profits of the Lipton, Ltd., could not be taken	intoaccount	 for the payment of bonus to its workers  in  India.After  having  given  those reasons,  the  Labour  AppellateTribunal  referred to the auditors' report dated  March	 17,1952,  with  regard  to	 the profit  and  loss	account	 andbalance-sheet of the Indian business as on January 5,  1952.In that report which related to the year 1951 it was  statedthat the value of the stocks of tea held at the end of	1951had  been written down below cost by Rs. 9,93,824-5-3.	 Theauditors' report then said:-"  We estimate the net realisable value of the total  stocksof tea as on January 5, 1952, to be in excess of their	costand,  therefore,  in  our opinion,  such  stocks  have	beenundervalued  to	 the  extent of the  above  reduction  belowcost."Relying	 on this report the Labour Appellate Tribunal  addedback  Rs. 9,93,824 to the available surplus of Rs.  9,66,654which the profit and loss account of the Indian business forthe  year  1951 showed.	 Adding the two figures	 the  LabourAppellate Tribunal opined that the available surplus at	 theend  of 1951 was Rs. 19,60,478.	 After	deducting  therefromthe(1) [1950] L.L.J. 1247.(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 991.161legitimate  prior charges on account of (a)  rehabilitation,(b)  a four per cent. return on capital and (c) one  month'sbonus  already	paid to the workers,  the  Labour  AppellateTribunal  came	to  the conclusion that there  was  a  clearavailable surplus of Rs. 4,11,478 for distribution of  extrabonus over and above the bonus of one month's salary.  whichthe Lipton, Ltd., had already paid to its workers.It has been contended before us, and rightly in our opinion,that  the  Labour Appellate Tribunal  committed	 a  manifesterror with regard to the sum of Rs. 9,93,824 and odd.  It istrue  that  the	 auditors in their report  referred  to	 theunder-valuation of the stock of tea available at the end  of1951  by a sum of Rs. 9,93,824 and odd.	 An  explanation  ofsuch  undervaluation was given in the written  statement  ofthe  Lipton,  Ltd., dated February 8, 1955.  It	 was  statedtherein:-" It is a well recollected fact and the Court will not	needevidence  in  support of this that the	tea  market  droppedrapidly	 and in a catastrophic fashion to,wards the  end  of1951.	As a result of this the Company	 apprehended  severelosses on the stocks which it was carrying and provision forthis loss was made in the 1951 accounts by an adjustment  tothe  value of stocks of tea on hand at the end of  December,1951.  The amount of this adjustment was Rs. 9,93,824.	As aresult	 of  this,  the	 profits  made	during	 1951	wereunderstated in the company's accounts and overstated in	 theaccounts  for 1952.  It should be noted that the  Income-taxDepartment insisted that these profits were made in 1951 andnot in 1952 and the Company was taxed accordingly."What  is  worthy  of  note  is	that  when  the	  Income-taxDepartment  insisted that the sum of Rs. 9,93,824 should  betreated	 as the profits of 1951, the said amount  was  addedback in the summarised profit and loss account of the Indianbranch	and the available surplus of Rs. 9,66,654 was  showntherein after having taken into consideration the sum of Rs.9,93,824.  This is clear from the summarised profit and lossaccount21162of the Indian branch.  It is clear, therefore, that the 1951profit	and loss account took into consideration the sum  ofRs.  9,93,824 and after adding back that sum to the  profitsof  1951, the available surplus of Rs. 9,66,654 was  arrivedat.    The   Labour  Appellate	Tribunal   was,	  therefore,manifestly in error in adding back the sum of Rs.  9,93,824;because that amount had already been added back in  arrivingat  the	 available surplus of 1951.  Thus, the	main  reasonwhich the Labour Appellate Tribunal gave for its decision toaward the payment of extra bonus for 1951 disappears, and itis  not disputed that if the available surplus for 1951	 wasonly Rs. 9,66,654, then after making the necessary deductionfor  prior  charges, nothing would be left  for	 payment  asextra bonus in 1951 to the workers in India.  So far as	 theother  two  years,  1952  and 1953,  are  concerned,  it  isunnecessary  to	 consider the profits of  those	 two  years,because there is no appeal before us on behalf of the Union.On  behalf of the Union, however, it has been very  stronglycontended  that the bonus for 1951 as awarded by the  LabourAppellate  Tribunal can be justified, if the global  profitsof  the Lipton, Ltd., are taken into consideration,  and  ithas  been argued before us that there is no reason  why	 theLipton,	 Ltd.,	should	not be	treated	 as  one  integratedindustry  which has trading activities in various  countriesand, for the purpose of the payment of bonus, why the  totalglobal profits of the Lipton, Ltd., should not be taken intoconsideration.We  do not think that the Union is justified in	 asking	 forbonus  for  a  particular year on the  basis  of  the  worldprofits of the Lipton, Ltd.  The true nature of a claim	 forbonus  has  been  the subject of many  decisions  in  LabourTribunals  and	Courts.	 It has been  judicially  recognisedthat bonus is not deferred wage, and the justification for ademand of bonus as an " industrial claim " arises when wagesfall  short  of	 the  living wage  and	the  industry  makessufficient  profits  to which both labour and  capital	havecontributed.  Substantially, the claim for bonus is a  claimwhich is paid out of the available surplus from the  profitsof an163industrial  undertaking,  to which both labour	and  capitalhave  contributed.   This  aspect of  bonus  was  consideredin.Muir	 Mills Co. Ltd. v. Suti Mills Mazdoor Union,  Kanpur(1).   It has also been said in some cases that bonus  is  atemporary  and	partial filling-up of the  gap	that  existsbetween	 a living wage and the actual wage paid:  where	 thegoal of living -wage has been attained, bonus is a mere cashincentive to greater efficiency and production, but where anindustry  has not the capacity to pay a living wage  or	 itscapacity varies or is expected to vary from year to year  sothat  the industry cannot afford to pay a living  wage,	 thepayment	 of  bonus  may	 be  looked  upon  as  a   temporarysatisfaction,  wholly  or  in  part, of	 the  needs  of	 theemployees.   Learned  counsel for the Union  has  emphasisedthis  latter aspect and has contended that there is  nothingunfair	in  considering the global profits  of	the  Lipton,Ltd., in awarding a temporary satisfaction, in part, of	 theneeds  of its Indian employees.	 We do not think that it  isnecessary  or advisable to lay down any inflexible,  generalrule  as  to the basis of a claim for bonus by some  of	 itsemployees  in  an industrial undertaking  which	 carries  ontrade  activities in several countries or even in  differentparts of the same country.  So far as foreign countries	 areconcerned,  many  considerations  such	as  restrictions  onforeign remittances and other trade restrictions may have tobe  taken  into account in determining the question,  as  inGanesh	Flour Mills v. Employees of Ganesh Flour Mills	(2).There are a number of decisions of Labour Tribunals, most ofwhich  were  noticed  in  Ganesh Flour	Mills  Co.  Ltd.  v.Employees of Ganesh Flour Mills (2), where a distinction hasbeen  made between a parent concern and subsidiary  concernsor  even between different units of the same  concern,	and,speaking  generally, the test laid down for the	 payment  ofbonus  in  such cases is (1) if the different units  are  soconnected  together or integrated that the payment of  bonusto one section of employees will violate the principle	thatall  workers  should share in the prosperity to	 which	theyhave jointly contributed, or (2) the(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 991.(2) A.I.R. 1958 S.C. 382.164different  units  are so separated or unconnected  that	 thetrade activity of one and the contribution of labour made inthe  profits  thereof has no necessary	connexion  with	 thetrade  activity	 and  profits of the other  units.   In	 theformer	case the undertaking has been treated as a whole  asin Burn and Co., Calcutta v. Their Employees (1); and BarodaBorough	 Municipality v. Its Workmen(2) ; in the latter,  ithas  been held that each unit must rest its claim for  bonuson the profits made by that unit.  Whether a particular casecomes under the former category or the latter must depend onits  own facts and circumstances, and we may  readily  agreethat  the more keeping of separate accounts may not  in	 allcases  be the proper criterion for determining	whether	 thedifferent units are integrated or not.For the purpose of these appeals it is sufficient,  however,to  state  that in view of the findings arrived	 at  by	 theTribunals below, it will be unfair and unjust to grant bonusto  the Indian workers on the global profits of the  Lipton,Ltd.  The Tribunals below have clearly found that the Indianworkmen	 do not in any way contribute to the  profits  whichthe  Lipton, Ltd., derive from its ex-India business.  As  amatter of fact, even the nature of the trade activity is notquite  the same ; tea represents only about 10 per cent.  ofthe  trading activities of the Lipton, Ltd., in	 the  UnitedKingdom,  whereas tea is the main commodity of	the  tradingactivity of the Indian branch.	The Indian branch  maintainsseparate  accounts which have been audited and	accepted  bythe Income-tax authorities as showing the profit and loss ofthe  Indian  branch of the business.  The  Labour  AppellateTribunal has very clearly found that though, at the relevanttime, the Lipton, Ltd., was one legal entity and the capitalof the Indian branch came from London, the Indian branch wastreated as a separate entity for all practical purposes.  Itsaid:"   Lipton,  London  never  interferes	with   the   tradingoperations  of Lipton, India, in India.	 Lipton, India	buysvast quantity of tea amounting to millions(1) [1956] S.C.R. 781.(2) [1957] S.C.R. 33.165of tons at auctions in India and sells the same loose or  inpackets	 at a profit in the markets of India.  Profits	thusmade  go entirely to the credit of the Indian  concern.	  Nopart  of the profits is diverted to England.  Lipton,  Indiaalso  purchases	 tea  for export......	Trading	 results  ofLipton,	 India	must  be regarded to be	 restricted  to	 theearning of commission on tea exported and returns on sale oftea-loose  or in packets-in the internal markets  in  India.Lipton,	 India has got ,to pay income-tax to the  Governmentof  India on the basis of its earnings on those	 two  heads.Workmen	 of the Indian Organisation have to work mainly	 forpurchase  of  tea at auctions in India, for sale of  tea  atprofit in Indian markets and for export of tea on commissionto  a lesser extent.  Therefore, the returns on these  headsare  the  only	things upon which the staff  of	 the  IndianOrganisation may depend for bonus."In the appeals before us the claim for bonus was made reallyon  the	 basis of an available surplus of  profits,  and  weagree  with  the Labour Appellate Tribunal that	 the  Indianworkers can claim bonus if there is an available surplus  ofprofits out of the Indian business.  In the circumstances inwhich  the Lipton, Ltd., operated in India at  the  relevanttime, it would be unjust to award bonus to the Indian  work-men  on the basis of the global profits of the Lipton,	Lid.It  is	not disputed that the Lipton, Ltd., is	a  very	 bigOrganisation  and has huge reserves which were built  up  inprevious  years	 out  of its world  profits.   There  is  noevidence to show to what extent, if any, the Indian businesscontributed to those profits.  On the finding of the  LabourAppellate Tribunal that no part of the profits made in Indiais  diverted to England and on the further finding that	 theIndian	business depends on its own trading results, we	 areof the view that the Tribunals below correctly held that theglobal	profits of the Lipton, Ltd., could not be the  basisfor awarding bonus to its Indian workmen.There  was  some  argument before us as to  whether  the  1%commission  which the Indian branch earned on the export  oftea correctly represented the proper remuneration payable tothe Indian business.  That,166however,  is  a question which we do not think	is  open  toenquiry in the present appeals.	 The Income-tax	 authoritiesaccepted  as correct the returns of the Lipton, Ltd., as  totheir  Indian business.	 It was not suggested that  anythingmore  than 1% was in fact taken as commission by the  Indianbranch,	 or  that  the	accounts were "	 cooked	 "  in	thatrespect.   Whether the 1% commission was the  normal  marketrate  of  commission  for purchases on	behalf	of  overseasbuyers was not investigated ; on the contrary, the  accountsfiled by the Lipton, Ltd., in this respect were accepted  ascorrect.   That	 being the position, it is not open  to	 therespondent  to contend that the available surplus should  bedetermined on mere speculation as to what the Indian  branchshould have earned in the export side of its business.On  a consideration of all the relevant factors, we  are  ofthe view that the Labour Appellate Tribunal was in error  inawarding  an  extra  two  months' bonus	 for  1951  and	 thedecision of the Industrial Tribunal was correct.  Therefore,the  award in so far as it directs the payment of extra	 twomonths' bonus for 1951 must be set aside.  We now go to	 themore difficult question of fixation of grades and wages.What the Union demanded in the matter of fixation of  gradesand   scales   of  pay	will  appear  from  the	  terms	  ofreference.These terms were:-"  Fixation  of grades and scales of pay: 1(a)	Whether	 thefollowing  pay scales should be adopted and what  directionsare necessary in this respect:-     Peon, Sweeper, Van     Mazdurs and God-....Rs. 60-3-90-4-130-5-155.     own Mazdurs.     Village salesmen....Rs. 70-5-120-7 1/2-195-10-245.     Drivers.............Rs. 90-71/2-150-10-250-15-325.     Junior Clerks, Typ-     ists, Salesmen and     Assistant Godown....Rs. 90-71/2-150-10-250-15-325.     Keepers.     Godown Keepers......Rs. 120-10-200-12-320-20-460.167Senior Clerks, Steno-graphers, Compto........Rs. 150-10-250-15-400-20-500.meter operator andDiv.  Salesmen.(b)  Whether pay scales as stated in 'a' above	should	comeinto  effect retrospectively from 1-1-53 and what should  bethe method of adjustments while fixing the actual pay in therevised scale?	"The  Industrial	 Tribunal  gave an increase of	20%  to	 allworkers and set out in tabular form the category of workers,their  present	grades,	 and the revised  grades  which	 theTribunal was allowing on the basis of a 20% increase.  It isnecessary to set out the -tabular form here:-"CATEGORY		PRESENT		 REVISED			  GRADE		   GRADEPeons, Sweepers, VanMazdoors and GodownMazdoors.		27-2-45		 35-2-55Village Salesman.	40-0-50		 50-2-60Drivers.		65-3-95		78-3-114Junior Clerks andTypists.		70-5-125	84-6-150Salesman.		50-0-75		60-5-90Godown Keepers Gr. 1	70-5-130	84-6-150		   2   125-8-200       150-9-240		   3   195-10-235     230-10-280Senior Clerks andComptometer Operators.	 120-8-200    140-10-240Stenographers.		 125-8-205    150-10-240Divisional Salesman	  80-0-125    100-10-150."As  to the date from which the revised grades were  to	takeeffect,	  the  Tribunal	 directed  that	 they  should	haveretrospective  effect  from  January  1,  1954,	 instead  ofJanuary	 1, 1953, as claimed by the Union.   This  directionthe  Tribunal  gave  because the  Union	 had  presented	 itsdemands to the Lipton, Ltd., for the first time towards	 theend  of	 December,  1953.  The Tribunal	 also  gave  certaindirections as to how the present employees should be broughtinto the168new scales and what adjustments should be made therefor.The Tribunal proceeded on the footing that the existing wagestructure,  though not far below what it called the  minimumfair wage, was far below the standard of a living wage,	 theprogressive  attainment of which (the Tribunal said) is	 theaim  of all labour laws.  The Tribunal then  considered	 thequestion of financial capacity of the Lipton, Ltd., to	beara higher wage structure and expressed itself as follows :"  Since as remarked before, the existing wage level of	 thecompany's  employees  cannot  be said to be  far  below	 theminimum fair wage level obtaining in this country, this wagelevel  can  be increased only if it can be  found  that	 thecompany	 is  in	 a financially sound position  to  bear	 theadditional  burden.  This again brings us face to face	withthe question whether it is the company's capacity to pay  onan  all-world  basis  that should  be  considered  for	thispurpose or only the prosperity of its Indian branch.  So faras  bonus is concerned, since bonus according to the  latesttheory	represents a due share of the labour in the  profitsof business so largely contributed to by it, profit accruingfrom  foreign  business does not come into  the	 picture  indistributing  bonus.  The same principle cannot be  extendedto  the fixing of the wage level of the workers for all	 theemployees  in  India are of course employees of	 the  parentcompany..........................   The	  company's   globalresources  cannot, therefore, be disregarded in	 determiningits  capacity  to  pay.	 At the	 same  time,  the  company'soverall	 balance-sheet and state of business cannot  furnishthe sole criterion for the fixing of the upper limit of	 thefair  wage  in India, for if a burden is  imposed  upon	 thecompany which is out of all proportion to the income that itderives	 from  the business in India, the company  may	verywell  be  tempted to close down its business  in  India	 andemploy	the capital thus released elsewhere.  No one can  behappy  over a situation like this, the	company's  employeesleast  of  all.	  While,  therefore,  the  company's  globalcapacity to pay cannot be kept169out of consideration in fixing the wage level of its  Indianemployees, any increase in the wages cannot be granted on  alevel that would not leave it worth while for the company tocontinue  its business in India.  In other words, while	 thecompany's overall prosperity may be considered in fixing thewage  level in India, I should see to it that  the  increaseshould	not be such that it drives the company out of  Indiaaltogether."The Tribunal pointed out that according to the last balance-sheet  filed  in the case the share capital of	the  Lipton,Ltd.,  amounted in 1954 to pound 2,75,000 (but the  balance-sheet  however	shows  pound 2,500,000)	 while	the  reservecapital stood at pound 3,60,417.  The Tribunal expressed theview that having regard to its global resources, the Lipton,Ltd.,  was financially able to bear a slightly	higher	wagestructure  in  order to bridge the gap, in  part  at  least,between	 the  existing wage structure and  the	living	wagestandard.   The Tribunal also referred to  the	circumstancethat  though the Lipton, Ltd., had incurred losses  in	1949and  1950, it bad turned the corner in 1951 and the  Companyhaving	overhauled  its system of sales, there	was  a	rea-sonable expectation of larger profits in future years.	 TheTribunal said that in the course of arguments before it,  itput to the parties whether an overall increase of five lakhsof rupees in the wage structure on an all India basis  couldbe borne by the company.  The Tribunal then said:"  Mr. Samuel was prepared to accept this additional  burdenon  the condition that in future there will be no  liabilityon  the	 Company  to, pay bonus to their workers  on  an  exgratia	basis, which they have been paying so far  to  theirworkers every year at the rate of one month's basic salary."On   the  aforesaid  grounds,  the  Tribunal  came  to	 theconclusion  that  the Lipton, Ltd., could  easily  stand  anadditional burden to the tune of five or six lakhs of rupeesover the wages and dearness allowance at present paid to itsemployees all over India, and as the total annual wage	billof the Indian workmen was22170in  the neighbourhood of about twenty lakhs, an increase  of20%  allowed  to all workers over their	 present  wages	 and-proportionate increase in the dearness allowance would	 notexceed	six  lakhs.  On this basis the	Industrial  Tribunalgave its award.The  Labour  Appellate-Tribunal substantially  affirmed	 thereasons	 given by the Industrial Tribunal and said that	 thetwo questions which arose for determination were (1) whetherthe existing scales of pay required revision and (2) whetherthe revised scales as fixed by the Industrial Tribunal	wereunwarranted and beyond the financial capacity of the Lipton,Ltd. Both these questions the Appellate Tribunal answered infavour of the respondent workmen.In  the	 appeals  before  us,  the  learned  AttorneyGeneralappearing for the Lipton, Ltd., has very strongly  contendedthat the reasons given by the Tribunals below for a revisionof   the  wage	structure  are	unsound	 in  principle	 andunjustified  on facts ; he has particularly laid  stress  onthe  contradiction involved in taking the  global  financialresources of the Lipton, Ltd., in support of an increase  inwages  while  holding that the Indian branch is	 a  separateentity	dependent  on  its own profits for  the	 payment  ofbonus.	 He has also submitted that the financial  resourcesof the Indian branch do not show any capacity to pay  higherwages;	nor  was  there,  according  to	 him,  any  reliableevidence  to show that the existing wage structure  requiredrevision if it was compared to the wage structure in similarindustries  in	the Delhi region.  He pointed out  that	 theTribunal was wrong in thinking that the Lipton, Ltd., turnedthe  corner  in	 1951  and  that  there	 was  a	  reasonableexpectation  of	 larger	 profits in  future  years,  and  insupport	 of his contention, he referred to  the	 appellant'sstatement  of the case, wherein the appellant stated in	 thefollowing  chart  from the profit and loss figures  of.	 theIndian	branch	from  1949 to 1957 in  the  context  of	 itsaverage capital:1711949 1950 1951 1952 1953 1954 1955 1956 1957(in lakhs of rupees)			   1					 ----					   2					  year.AverageCapital (re-presenting	  162 158 167 209 195 235 245 193 165Head officeCurrent Ac-count).Net Profit(after taxa-   8.2  3.6	 2.4  6.3  7.08.2  2.8	10.6  6.6tion)	      (loss)(loss)		    (loss)    (loss)Percen-tage of NetProfit/Loss    5.1   2.3  1.4  3.0  3.6 3.5  1.0  5.5  3.6to the Aver- (loss) (loss)		     (loss)   (loss)age CapitalThe  learned Attorney-General then referred to	the  allegedadmission of Samuel as to the capacity of the Lipton,  Ltd.,to  bear an additional burden of about five lakhs  and	drewour attention to the affidavit of S. K. Choudhury, personnelofficer	 of  the  Lipton Ltd.,	made  before  the  AppellateTribunal,  in which it was stated that Samuel  never  agreedthat the appellant was able to bear an additional burden  offive lakhs in the wage structure.  On these submissions, thelearned	 Attorney-General has very strongly  contended	thatthe  Tribunals below were wrong, in principle as well as  onfacts, in disturbing the present wage structure.We  think  that,  in the main,	three  questions  arise	 forconsideration: (1) were the Tribunals below wrong in  havingregard to the global financial resources of the Lipton Ltd.,in  fixing  the wage structure whereas for  the	 payment  ofbonus the profits of the Indian branch only were taken	intoconsideration;	(2) did the existing wage structure  requirerevision  and  was there any reliable evidence to  show	 thewage  structure	 of  any comparable  industry  in  the	sameregion, on the assumption that the capacity to pay should begauged on the industry-cum-region basis; and (3) has  LiptonLtd.,  financial capacity to bear the additional  burden  onits Indian resources ?172It  is necessary first to state that there is a	 distinctionbetween bonus and wage-a distinction to which we had earlieradverted  in this judgment.  Bonus comes out of profits	 andcan claim no priority over dividend or other prior  charges;bonus  is paid if after meeting prior charges, there  is  anavailable  surplus.   Wages stand on  a	 somewhat  differentfooting; wages primarily rest on contract and are determinedon  a long term basis and are not necessarily  dependent  onprofits made in a particular year.  The distinction  betweenthe two has been adverted to in two recent decisions of thisCourt:	Messrs.	 Crown Aluminium Works v. Their Workmen	 (1)and Express Newspapers (Private) Ltd. v. The Union of  India(2).   In  the	Crown Aluminium Works  (1)  this  Court	 hasobserved:" The old principle of the absolute freedom of contract	 andthe  doctrine  of laissez faire have yielded  place  to	 newprinciples  of	social	welfare	 and  common  good.   Labournaturally looks upon the constitution of wage structures  asaffording  ' a bulwark against the dangers of a	 depression,safeguard  against  unfair methods  of	competition  betweenemployers and a guarantee of wages necessary for the minimumrequirements  of employees'.  There can be no doubt that  infixing	wage structures in different industries,  industrialadjudication  attempts,. gradually and by stages  though  itmay be, to attain the principal objective of a welfare stateto  secure 'to all citizens justice, social and economic  Tothe  attainment	 of this ideal the Indian  Constitution	 hasgiven  a  place of pride and that is the basis	of  the	 newguiding	 principles  of social welfare and  common  good  towhich we have just referred."In  so	far as bare minimum wage is concerned, it  has	beenheld  that no industry has the right to exist unless  it  isable  to  pay its workmen at least a bare minimum  wage;  inother  words,  minimum	wage  is  the  first  charge  on  anindustry.   In the later decision of the Express  NewsPapers(Private)  Ltd. (2) the three concepts of the minimum  wage,fair  wage  and living wage have been examined, and  it	 hasbeen pointed out that(1) [1958] S.C.R. 651, 660.(2) [1959] S.C.R. 12.173the content of the expressions " minimum wage ", " fair wage" and " living wage " is not fixed and static; it varies andis bound to vary from time to time.The present case is not one of payment of the minimum  wage;it  is	a case of payment of a fair wage which	still  fallsshort  of a living wage.  For the payment of a fair wage  asfor a living wage, the financial capacity of the industry isundoubtedly  a relevant consideration.	The question  beforeus is-how is the financial capacity of the Lipton, Ltd.,  tobe judged?  The question of the capacity of the industry  topay  a	fair  wage  has	 been  considered  in  the   ExpressNewspapers  (Private) Ltd. (1) (at p. 89) and the  followingobservations are apposite-"  The	capacity of industry to pay can mean  one  of  threethings, viz.,(i)  the   capacity   of  a   particular   unit	  (marginal,representative or average) to pay,(ii) the capacity of a particular industry as a whole to  payor(iii)	  the capacity of all industries in the country topay.The  Committee	on  Fair Wages had said (pp.  13-15  of	 thereport) :"  In  determining the capacity of an industry	to  pay,  itwould be wrong to take the capacity of a particular unit  orthe capacity of all industries in the country.	The relevantcriterion should be the capacity of a particular industry ina  specified region and, as far as possible, the same  wagesshould be prescribed for all units of that industry in	thatregion."This  is  known	 as the industry-cum-region  basis  for	 thefixation of wages.  In the Express Newspapers (Private) Ltd.(1)  this Court has laid down the following  principles	 forthe fixation of wages (at p. 92):" The principles which emerge from the above discussion are:(1)  that  in the fixation of rates of wages  which  includewithin its compass the fixation of scales of wages also, thecapacity of the industry to pay is one(1)  [1959] S.C.R. 12.174of  the	 essential  circumstances  to  be  taken  into	con-sideration except in cases of bare subsistence or mini.	 mumwage   where  the  employer  is	 bound	to  pay	  the	sameirrespective of such capacity;(2)  that  the	capacity  of the industry to pay  is  to  beconsidered  on an industry-cum-region basis after  taking  afair cross section of the industry; and(3)  that the proper measure for gauging the capacity of theindustry  to pay should take into account the elasticity  ofdemand for the product, the possibility of tightening up theOrganisation  so  that the industry could pay  higher  wageswithout	 difficulty and the possibility of increase  in	 theefficiency of the lowest paid workers resulting in  increasein production considered in conjunction with the  elasticityof  demand  for the product-no doubt  against  the  ultimatebackground that the burden of the increased rate should	 notbe such as to drive the employer out of business."We  do	not  think that it is necessary	 to  decide  in	 thepresent	 case  whether	the Tribunals below  were  right  inhaving	regard to the global resources of the Lipton,  Ltd.,in the matter of the revision of the wagestructure;  becausewe  consider  that  on an application of  the  principle  ofindustry-cum-region, the revision of the wage-structure madeby  the Tribunals below cannot be said to be unjustified  onthe financial resources of the Lipton, Ltd., as disclosed byits trading results in India.  The learned  Attorney-Generalhas  referred  to  certain  larger  considerations:  he	 hassuggested that if the global resources of a company like theLipton, Ltd., which operates in several countries are  takeninto consideration in determining the wage structure, it wayresult	in  disparity of wages in different  regions  givingrise to industrial unrest and it may also have the effect ofstopping new industries in this country and thereby increaseunemployment.	These are matters which may require  seriousconsideration in a more appropriate case; but in the presentcase  we may examine the problem from the narrower point  ofview,  namely, the trading results in India if	the  Lipton,Ltd.We may first. dispose of a subsidiary but connected175point.	In the Industrial Tribunal the case proceeded on thefooting that the Lipton, Ltd., had a uniform system of wagesin  India and if the wage structure of the  Delhi  employeeswas revised it would mean revising the wage structure of theemployees  in other Indian offices as well.  It was  furthersuggested  that if the wage structure was uniformly  revisedat all other places, then the cost of the increase in  wagestaken  along with the cost of other reliefs granted  by	 theIndustrial  Tribunal,  would be much more than five  or	 sixlakhs.	We do not think that this would be a good ground forsetting	 aside the award.  The Industrial  Tribunal,  Delhi,had  jurisdiction  to  make  an	 award	in  respect  of	 theemployees of the Delhi office only ; it had no	jurisdictionto make an all-India award.  Moreover, if the true principlefor fixation of wages is region-cum-industry, then there  isno reason why the Delhi award should automatically apply  toall the other regions.It has not been disputed before us that the existing wage ofthe Delhi employees is far below the living wage.  The firstquestion is-was there any reliable evidence to show that  incomparable  industries	in the same region, the	 wages	werehigher and, therefore, the wage structure required  revisionto the extent allowed by the Industrial Tribunal.  On behalfof  the Union evidence was given about the scales of pay  ofemployees  in  the Delhi office of a  number  of  industrialundertakings,  such  as	 the Standard  Vacuum  Oil  Company,Thomas	Cook  (Continental)  Overseas,	Burma  Shell,  LeverBrothers (India) Ltd. and Associated Companies, and MarshallSons and Co. (India) Ltd.  On behalf of the appellant it hasbeen  contended	 that  none  of	 the  above  are  comparableindustries;   some  are	 oil  companies,  some	 engineeringconcerns and some manufacturing concerns.  On behalf of	 theUnion,	it has been pointed out that so far as the  drivers,sweepers, peons, clerks, godown keepers, typists,  stenogra-phers and the like are concerned, and these form the bulk ofthe employees, their nature of work is about the same in allthe  aforesaid industries and, therefore, there was a  basisfor comparison on which the176Tribunals  below could proceed.	 We are of the view that  itis impossible to say in this case that there was no evidenceon  which  the Tribunals could proceed to  revise  the	wagestructure;  on the contrary there was evidence	accepted  bythe  Tribunals below which justified a revision of the	wagestructure.The  Appellate Tribunal also referred to the scales  of	 payobtaining  in  Brooke  Bond,  India,  and  opined  that	 theappellant's  scales of pay were lower than the	Brooke	Bondscales.	  This	opinion of the Appellate Tribunal  has	beenchallenged  before us; firstly, it has been  contended	thatthough Brooke Bond has a similar trading activity in tea, itis not a comparable industry because it owns tea gardens  inIndia; secondly, it has been pointed out that no evidence ofthe Brooke Bond's scales of pay was given and the opinion ofthe Appellate Tribunal was a mere surmise.  It appears	thatno  evidence was given before the Industrial Tribunal  aboutthe  Brooke  Bond's  scales  of	 pay,  but  some  additionalevidence  was offered at the appellate stage; this was	not,however,  accepted.  In the circumstances, we do  not  thinkthat  the  Brooke  Bond's scales of pay can  be	 taken	intoconsideration.	But as we have earlier said, there was otherevidence on which a comparison could be and was made by	 theTribunals  below.  That comparison justified an increase  intheThe next question is-do the trading results in India of	 theLipton,	 Ltd.,	show that it has the financial	capacity  tobear  the  burden of the wave increase?	 The  statement,  inchart form, of the profit and loss figures from 1949-1957 towhich  we have earlier referred, shows that net	 profits  in1952 exceeded six lakhs, in 1953 seven lakhs, in 1954  eightlakhs  and  in 1956 ten lakhs.	We have	 said  earlier	thatwages  do not necessarily come out of the net profits  of  aparticular year, and it cannot be said that a fair wage mustinevitably  be	postponed till a fair return on	 capital  isobtained.   Wages are fixed on a long term basis and  dependalso  on  the  cost  of living and  the	 needs	of  workmen.Judging	 the trading results of the Indian business  of	 theLipton, Ltd., over a period of years,177we  cannot say that the Tribunals below committed any  errorin revising the wage structure.	 It is germane to point	 outhere that Samuel's evidence showed that the managerial staffof  the Indian business, recruited in England, receive	veryhigh salaries.	Samuel said that the General Manager, who isthe  Chief  Executive Officer of the Indian  branch  of	 theLipton,	 Ltd.,	gets a salary of Rs. 5,000 per	month.	 Thenext officer is the Administrator whose pay is Rs. 4,250 permonth.	The third man, who is the Manager of the Tea Depart-ment, gets the same pay as the Administrator.  The fourth isthe  Accountant of the company and his pay is Rs. 3,800	 permonth.	 The fifth is the Marketing Controller whose pay  isRs. 3,650 per month.  The Factory Manager gets Rs. 3,350 permonth.	There are several other officers who also get a veryhigh  salary  and the total number  of	covenated  ExecutiveOfficers consists of 32 Europeans and 17 Indians.  Now,	 thepoint  taken  on  behalf  of the  Union	 is  that  the	wagestructure  of the Indian branch is top-heavy, in  the  sensethat  the higher administrative officers get a salary  whichis out of all proportion to the wage scale of the  employeeswith whom we are now concerned. It is further contended thatthe  high salaries paid to the superior Executive  show	 (1)that  the  wage structure of the  lower	 employees  requiresrevision  and (2) that the financial capacity of the  Indianbranch	is not as negligible as the appellant wants to	makeout.  We think, however, that it is not the duty of a LabourTribunal  or Court to dictate to an industrial concern	whatsalaries  should be paid to superior executive officers	 whoare    not    workmen	within	 the	meaning	   of	 theIndustrial,Disputes   Act,  1947.   We	have  pointed	out,however, in the Express Newspapers (Private) Ltd. (1) that "the  possibility of tightening up the organisation  so	thatthe  industry could pay higher wages without difficulty	 andthe possibility of increase in the efficiency of the  lowestpaid  workers  resulting in increase in production  must  beconsidered in conjunction with the elasticity of demand	 forthe product-(1)  [1959] S.C.R. 12.23178no doubt- against the ultimate background that the burden ofthe  increased	rate  should not be such  as  to  drive	 theemployer out of business ". This is an aspect of the  matterwhich the Tribunals below had considered and the  IndustrialTribunal had particularly said that the increase in the wagestructure was not such as would drive the Lipton, Ltd.,	 outof its Indian business.Our  attention has been drawn to the financial	implicationsof  the	 award and it has been pointed out  that  the  totalannual	cost  to  the company of the increase  in  the	wagestructure  of the employees in the Delhi office would be  inthe  neighbourhood of Rs. 49,721 per year; on  an  all-Indiabasis  it would be in the neighbourhood of Rs. 2,71,000	 andodd.   Having  regard to the evidence which Samuel  gave  itcannot	be  said that the burden of the increased  rate	 wassuch as would be beyond the financial resources of the	Lip-ton,  Ltd., on its trading results in India or was  such  aswould  drive  the Lipton, Ltd., out of India.  Even  on	 thebasis  of  all the reliefs granted by the award,  the  totalcost  to  the company for the Delhi office would be  in	 theneighbourhood of Rs. 1,15,000 and on an all-India basis	 Rs.6,34,000.   We have said earlier that the award was  not  anall-India  award,  and so far as the fixation  of  wages  isconcerned,  it must be judged on the principle of  industry-cum-region.  So judged, we do not think that the increase isbeyond	the  financial	resources of the  Lipton,  Ltd.,  asdisclosed by its trading results in India.On behalf of the  appellant, it has been submitted that	 oneof  the tests for measuring the capacity of the industry  topay the increased wage is, amongst others, the selling priceof the product and it has been pointed out that by reason ofthe imposition in 1953 of an excise duty of three annas	 perpound of packet tea, there is serious competition from thosewho sell tea in loose form and any further increase in pricewill  give  rise  to consumers'	 resistance  and  ultimatelyresult	in lesser sale and lesser profits.  In	our  opinionthe  industrial	 Tribunal  rightly  pointed  out  that	 themoderate  increase  in the wage scale proposed by  it  wouldonly179be  a very small fraction of the overall cost of  productionof  a packet of tea and would have very little	repercussionin its price.Lastly,	 our attention was drawn to an award of the  SpecialIndustrial Tribunal, Madras, dated October 15, 1956, betweenthe  management of the Lipton, Ltd., Madras and its  workersemployed  in Madras where on more or less similar facts	 theIndustrial  Tribunal repelled the argument on behalf of	 theworkmen	 that the global financial position of	the  Lipton,Ltd.,  should  be  taken into  account	in  considering	 thecapacity of the company to pay higher salaries and  dearnessallowance, and it was held that the Lipton, Ltd., could	 notbe burdened with any additional liability and the  employeesmust wait for better days.  That award is not the subject ofthe  present  appeals and we consider  it  unnecessary,	 andindeed	inadvisable,  to make any pronouncement	 as  to	 thecorrectness or otherwise of that award.The  only  other point which requires consideration  is	 thequestion of the date from which the new scales of pay shouldcome into effect.  The Industrial Tribunal fixed January  1,1954, on the ground that the Union had presented its charterof  demands to the appellant for the first time towards	 theend  of	 December  1953.  We are unable to  agree  with	 theTribunals  below  that the circumstance that  a	 charter  ofdemands was presented in December 1953 is a good ground	 forgiving	retrospective effect to the new scales of pay.	 Thecharter	 of demands presented by the Union consisted  of  20items  and  in the matter of the wage scale what  the  Uniondemanded  was in some cases more than 50 to 75% increase  onthe  existing  scales of pay.  Obviously, the  demands	wereexorbitant  and the management was justified in refusing  toaccept	the demands in toto.  We are, therefore,  unable  toagree  that retrospective effect should be given to the	 newscales	of pay from January 1, 1954.  The award was made  onAugust	18, 1955, and it was published on October  6,  1955.We  think that it will be more just to bring the new  scalesof  pay	 with effect from November 1, 1955,  and  we  directaccordingly.' The other directions given180by  the Industrial Tribunal to bring the  present  employeesinto  the  new	scales	of pay will  stand  subject  to	 thenecessary modification that instead of January 1, 1954,	 therelevant date should be November 1, 1955.The result, therefore, is as follows: Appeal No. 715 of 1957is  dismissed with costs.  Appeals Nos. 713 and 714 of	1957are  allowed to the extent indicated above.  The  order	 forthe grant of bonus for 1951 is set aside and the new  scalesof  pay will take effect from November 1, 1955,	 instead  offrom  January 1, 1954.	There will be no order for costs  inthese two appeals.	    Appeals Nos. 713 and 714 allowed in part.	    Appeal No. 715 dismissed.