PETITIONER:RAJA GANGA PRATAP SINGH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE ALLAHABAD BANK LTD., LUCKNOWDATE OF JUDGMENT:22/01/1957BENCH:ACT:   Statute, Constitutional validity of-Whether a question ofinterpretation	of the Constitution-Severability, if  shouldbe  considered before deciding question of validity-Duty  ofCourt-Code  of Civil Procedure (V of 1908), s. 113  proviso-Constitution of India, Art. 228.HEADNOTE:     The  respondent, a scheduled bank, sued  the  appellantfor  recovery  of  money under a  mortgage.   The  appellantclaimed	 reduction  of	the debt  under	 the  Uttar  PradeshZamindari Debt Reduction Act, 1953.  An advance or debt	 dueto  a  scheduled bank was excluded from	 the  definition  of"debt"	given in the Act.  The appellant contended that	 thedefinition  in so far as it excluded certain debts  offendedArt.  14  Of  the  Constitution	 as  it	 made  an  arbitrarydistinction   between  several	classes	 of  debtors.	 Theappellant  applied to the court under the proviso to S.	 113of the Code of Civil Procedure praying that a case be statedfor the opinion of the High Court as to the validity of	 theimpugned portion of the definition.  The Court rejected	 theapplication.  The appellant made an application in  revisionto the High Court and also an application under Art. 228  ofthe Constitution for withdrawing the case for a decision  ofthe  question of the validity of the definition.   The	HighCourt  dismissed  the applications.  The Courts	 below	heldthat  in either view of the question as to the	validity  ofthe impugned portion of the definition, the appellant  wouldbe  left  without the remedy which he sought,  because	thatportion	 of the definition was not severable from  the	restand  the  whole	 definition would have to  be  excluded	 andtherefore  it was not necessary to decide that	question  todispose of the case			    1151    Held,  that	 the question raised by the  appellant	cameboth  within the proviso to s. 113 of the Code and Art.	 228Of the Constitution.  The question whether the impugned partof  the definition contravened Art. 14 was a question as  tothe  interpretation  of the Constitution and  that  questionmust  be decided first.	 The question of severability  couldarise  only  after that question had been  decided  and	 theimpugned part held invalid.JUDGMENT:    CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.  357  of1957.    Appeal  by	special leave from the	judgment  and  orderdated  February	 28,  1956,  of	 the  Allahabad	 High  Court(Lucknow  Bench)  in  Misc.  Case No. 4 of  1955  and  CivilRevision  No.  189 of 1955, arising out of the	order  datedAugust 6, 1955 of the Civil Judge, Sitapur in Suit No. 16 of1953.    Vidya Sagar, for the appellant.    Iqbal  Ahmad, S. N. Andley and Rameshwar Nath,  for	 therespondent.    1958.  January 22.	The following Judgment of the  Courtwas delivered by    SARKAR  J.-The  respondent, a scheduled bank,  sued	 theappellant in the court of the Civil Judge, Sitapore in UttarPradesh,  for the recovery of money due under an  instrumentof  mortgage.  The appellant contested the suit	 on  severalgrounds	 one  of which was that he was	entitled  to  reliefunder the Uttar Pradesh Zamindar's Debt Reduction Act  (U.P.XV  of 1953) which reduced the amount recoverable on a	debtas  defined  in it.  Now a debt was defined in	the  Act  inthese terms:   2(f):  "debt"  means	 an advance in cash or in  kind	 andincludes  any transaction which is in substance a  debt	 butdoes  not include an advance as aforesaid made on  or  afterthe first day of July, 1952 or a debt due to-    (i) the Central Government or Government of any State ;    (ii)  a local authority;    (iii) a scheduled bank;    (iv)  a co-operative society; and1152    (v) a waqf, trust or endowment for a charitable orreligious purpose only.    (vi)  a  person,  where  the debt was  advanced  on	 hisbehalf by the Court of Wards to a ward.As  the respondent was a scheduled bank the debt due  to  itfrom the appellant was not a debt within this definition andconsequently, no relief would appear to be available to	 theappellant  under  the  Act in respect  of  that	 debt.	 Theappellant, however, contended that the definition in so	 faras  it	excluded  certain  debts offended  Art.	 14  of	 theConstitution in as much as it made an arbitrary	 distinctionbetween	 several classes of debtors and denied the  excludeddebtors, the equal protection of the law and that hence thatportion	 of the definition which excluded certain debts	 wasinvalid	 and  should  be  struck out and  the  rest  of	 thedefinition should be left as operative.	 If the	 appellant'scontention  was justified, the definition would have to	 runas follows:"debt" means an advance in cash or in coin and includes	 anytransaction  which  is in substance a debt,and would then include the debt due by the appellant to	 therespondent.   If  this was the correct	position,  then	 theappellant  would be entitled to all the reliefs	 granted  bythe Act.   This	 defence,  therefore, raised a question	 as  to	 thevalidity  of a provision in the Act.  So the appellant	madean  application	 to  the Civil	Judge,	Sitapur,  under	 theproviso to s. 113 of the Code of Civil Procedure asking	 himto  state  a  case  for the opinion of	the  High  Court  atAllahabad  to which he was subordinate as to the  invalidityof the impugned portion of the definition.  That proviso  isin these terms:    Provided  that where the Court is satisfied that a	casepending before it involves a question -as to the validity ofany  Act,  Ordinance  or  Regulation  or  of  any  provisioncontained   in	 an  Act,  Ordinance  or   Regulation,	 thedetermination of which is necessary for the disposal of	 thecase, and is of opinion that such Act, Ordinance, Regulationor provision is invalid or inoperative, but has not been  sodeclared by			    1153the High Court to which that Court is subordinate or by	 theSupreme Court, the Court shall state a case setting out	 itsopinion and the reasons therefor, and refer the same for theopinion of the High Court.   The	learned Civil Judge took the view that the  impugnedportion	  of  the  definition  infringed  art.	14  of	 theConstitution  as  it made an arbitrary	distinction  betweenseveral classes of debtors and was therefore invalid, but heheld that it was not necessary for the disposal of the	caseto decide such question of invalidity because even if it wasdecided	 in favour of the appellant, the result would be  toexclude the entire definition from the Act as the  offendingportion	 was not severable from the rest and  the  appellantwould,	 therefore,  be	 in  any  event	 left  without	 theprotection  of the Act.	 In this view of the matter he	heldthat  the  proviso to s. 113 of the Code did not  apply	 anddismissed the application under it.    The appellant then made an application to the High Courtat  Allahabad  for a revision of the order  of	the  learnedCivil  Judge.  He at the same time made another	 applicationto the High Court under Art. 228 of the Constitution.	Thatarticle is in these terms:    If the High Court is satisfied that a case pending in  acourt  subordinate to it involves a substantial question  oflaw  as	 to  the interpretation	 of  this  Constitution	 thedetermination of which is necessary for the disposal of	 thecase, it shall withdraw the case and may-    (a)	  either dispose of the case itself, or    (b)	  determine the said question of law and returnthe  case  to  the court from which the	 case  has  been  sowithdrawn  together  with  a copy of its  judgment  on	suchquestion,  and	the  said court	 shall	on  receipt  thereofproceed	 to  dispose  of the case in  conformity  with	suchjudgment.    The appellant in the latter application prayed that	 theHigh Court might be pleased to withdraw the case and  eitherdispose	 it  of	 itself, or determine the  question  of	 thevalidity of the defintion of debt in the Act and return	 thecase to the court of the Civil Judge,1154Sitapur,   for	final  disposal	 in  accordance	 with	suchdetermination.    The High Court disposed of both the applications by	 onejudgment.   It	held  that there was no dispute	 as  to	 theconstitutional principle which was clear, namely, that everycitizen was entitled to the equal protection of the laws andthat  any  enactment which infringed that principle,  is  tothat extent void, and that the only dispute was whether	 theimpugned portion of the definition of a " debt " in the	 Actwas  severable from the rest and that was not a question  ofthe interpretation of any provision of the Constitution	 butone  of the construction of the Act itself.  The High  Courtalso held that even if any question of the interpretation ofthe Constitution arose, a determination of that question wasnot necessary for the dispogal of the case.  In this view ofthe  matter  the  High Court dismissed	the  application  inrevision  and also that under Art. 228.	 From this  judgmentthe present appeal has been filed.   It  seems  clear to us that the question  raised  by	 theappellant in this case comes within the proviso to s. 113 ofthe Code as also art. 228 of the Constitution.	The questioncontemplated  by the proviso to s. 113 of the Code is as  tothe  validity of an Act or of a provision in it	 while	Art.228  of	 the Constitution has in view a question as  to	 theinterpretation of the Constitution.  Now the question raisedin the present case is as to the validity of a provision  inthe  Zamindar's	 Debt  Reduction  Act.	 This  question	 is,however,  also	a question as to the interpretation  of	 theConstitution,	for  the  validity  of	the   provision	  ischallenged  on the ground that it contravenes an article  ofthe Constitution.  The point that really arises in this appeal is whether  itis  necessary  for the disposal of the case  to	 decide	 thequestion of the validity of a portion of the definition of adebt  in  the Act . All other conditions  necessary  for  anorder being made under the proviso to s. 113 of the Code  orArt.  228 of the Constitution exist and as to this there  isno serious dispute.  It is			    1155not necessary for us therefore to discuss these conditions.    The	 courts	 below	held  that in  either  view  of	 thequestion  of  the validity of the impugned  portion  of	 thedefinition  of a debt, the appellant would be  without,	 theremedy	which  he  sought,  because  that  portion  of	 thedefinition was not severable from the rest, and therefore itwas not necessary to decide that question to dispose of	 thecase.  We are unable to agree with this view.  The  questionof  the validity of the definition in so far as it  excludedcertain	 debts	having	been  raised  and  pressed  by	 theappellant,  it	had to be decided by the court.	  Without  adecision of that question the case could not be disposed of.The fact that in the view of the court the impugned part  ofthe% definition was not severable from the rest and  there-'fore  in any view of the question as to the validity of	 theimpugned  part, the appellant would not get any relief,	 didnot alter the position.	 The question as to the severabilityof  the impugned part of the definition from the rest  wouldarise only after it had been decided that the impugned	partwas invalid and so to be able to say that the impugned	partof  the definition was not severable from the rest,  it	 hadfirst  to be held that that part was invalid.  It could	 notbe said that as the impugned part was not severable from therest  it -was not necessary for the disposal of the case  todecide	the question of the validity of the  impugned  part.We,  therefore,	 hold  that it is necessary  to	 decide	 thequestion  of  the  validity  of the  impugned  part  of	 thedefinition to dispose of the case.    This  appeal  is  hence allowed.  The  High	 Court	willwithdraw  the  case  and  either dispose  it  of  itself  ordetermine the question of the validity of the definition  ofa  debt in the Zamindar's Debt Reduction Act and return	 thecase to the Civil Judge, Sitapur, for disposal in accordancewith its determination of the' question.  The appellant willget the costs of this appeal.					    Appeal allowed.I47