PETITIONER:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, PUNJAB	Vs.RESPONDENT:SHRI THAKUR DAS BHARGAVA, ADVOCATE, HISSAR.DATE OF JUDGMENT:27/07/1960BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1219 CITATOR INFO : E	    1977 SC1343	 (6)ACT:Income	Tax--Professional income--Lawyer accepting  case  oncondition  of clients' Paying money for charity--Money	Paidto  lawyer  and	 charitable  trust  created--Whether  amountreceived is Professional income.HEADNOTE:The assessee, an advocate, accepted a case on condition thatthe clients would provide him with Rs. 40,000 for charitablepurposes and that he would create a public charitable  trustwith  the money.  The clients gave the assessee	 Rs.  32,500and he created a trust therewith.  The assessee claimed thatthe  said  amount  of Rs. 32,500 was  not  his	professionalincome	as  the amount had been given to him  in  trust	 forcharity.Held,  that the said amount was the professional  income  ofthe assessee and was liable to income-tax.  At the time whenthis  money was paid to the assessee no trust or  obligationin  the nature of trust was created.  The clients  who	paidthe  money did not create any trust nor imposed any  legallyenforceable  obligation on the assessee.  The money when  itwas  received  by the assessee was his	professional  incomethough	he  had	 expressed  a desire  earlier  to  create  acharitable  trust  out	of the	money  when  received.	 Theassessee's own voluntary desire to create a trust out of thefees  paid  to	him  did not create a  trust  or  a  legallyenforceable obligation.Raja  Bejoy  Singh Dudhuria v. Commissioner of	Income	Tax,Bengal, [1933] 1 I.T.R. 135, referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 236 of 1955.Appeal from the judgment and order dated August 3, 1953,  ofthe Punjab High Court in Civil Reference No. 7/1952.M.   C.	  Setalvad,  Attorney-General  for  India,   K.	  N.Rajagopal Sastri and D. Gupta, for the appellant.N.   C. Chatterjee and S. K. Sekhri, for the respondent.1960.  July 27.	 The Judgment of the Court was delivered by76S.   K. DAS J.-This is an appeal on a certificate of fitnessgranted	 under the provisions of sub-s. 2 of s. 66A  of	 theIndian Income-tax Act, 1922, by the High Court of Judicaturefor  the  State	 of  Punjab  then  sitting  at	Simla.	 Thecertificate  is dated December 28, 1953, and was granted  onan  application	 made  by the  Commissioner  of	 Income-tax,Punjab,	 appellant  herein The relevant	 facts	are  shortlystated below.For  the  assesment  year  1946-47,  one  Pandit   ThakurdasBhargava,  an advocate of Hissar and respondent	 before	 us,was  assessed to income tax on a total assessable income  ofRs. 58,475/- in the account year 1945-46. This sum  includedthe amount of Rs. 32,500/stated to have been received by therespondent  in July, 1945 for defending the accused  personsin  a  case known as the Farrukbnagar  case.   The  assesseeclaimed that the said amount of Rs. 32,500/- was not a	partof his professional income, because the amount was given  tohim  in trust for charity.  This claim of the  assessee	 wasnot accepted by the Income-tax Officer, nor by the AppellateAssistant  Commissioner who heard the appeal from the  orderof  the Income-tax Officer.  Both these officers  held	thatthe assessee had received the amount of Rs. 32,500/- as	 hisprofessional  income and the trust which the assessee  latercreated	 by  a deed of Trust dated August 6, 1945,  did	 notchange	 the   nature  or  character  of  the	receipt	  asprofessional income of the assessee; they further held	thatthe  persons  who  paid the money to the  assessee  did	 notcreate any trust nor impose any obligation in the nature  ofa  trust  binding on the assessee, and in fact and  law	 thetrust  was  created  by	 the assessee  himself	out  of	 hisprofessional income ; therefore, the amount attracted tax assoon as it was received by the assessee as his	professionalincome,	 and  its  future  destination	or  application	 wasirrelevant  for	 taxing	 purposes.  From the  order  of	 theAppellate  Assistant  Commissioner  a  further	appeal	 wascarried to the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal, Delhi  Branch.We shall presently state the facts which the Tribunal found,but its conclusion drawn from the facts found was  expressedin the	following words:"The income in this case did not at77any  stage  arise  to the assessee.   Keeping  in  mind	 theexpress	 stipulation made by the assessee when	he  acceptedthe brief there was a voluntary trust created, which had  tobe and was subsequently reduced into writing after the moneywas subscribed.	 The payments received from the accused	 andother  persons were received on behalf of the trust and	 notby  the assessee in his capacity as an individual.  In	thisview,	we  delete  the	 sum  of  Rs.  32,500/-	  from	 theassessment."The appellant then moved the Tribunal for stating a case  tothe High Court on the question of law which arose out of theorder of the Tribunal.	The Tribunal was of the opinion thata  question  of	 law did arise out of its  order,  and	thisquestion it formulated in the following terms:"  Whether the sum of Rs. 32,500/- received by the  assesseein  the	 circumstances	set  out in  the  trust	 deed  laterexecuted  by  him on August 6, 1945,  was  his	professionalincome taxable in his hands, or was it money received by himon  behalf  of	a  trust  and not  in  his  capacity  as  anindividual."It  appears  that in stating a case the Tribunal  framed  anadditional  question as to whether the trust was created  ator  before  the payment of Rs. 32,500/-, but  expressed	 theview  that  this  additional question was  implicit  in	 theprincipal question formulated by it.  A case was accordinglystated	to the High Court under s. 66 of the Indian  Income-tax Act, and the High Court by its judgment dated August  3,1953, answered the question in favour of the assessee, hold-ing that " the sum of Rs. 32,500/- received by the  assesseewas  not received by him as his professional income but	 wasreceived  on behalf of the trust and not in his capacity  asan individual ". The appellant then moved the High Court andobtained  the certificate of fitness referred to earlier  inthis judment.We shall presently state the facts found by the Tribunal  inconnection  with the receipt of the sum of Rs.	32,500/-  bythe  assessee, from which the Tribunal drew  its  inference.But  the question as framed by the Tribunal and answered  bythe High Court, was78whether in the circumstances set out in the trust deed datedAugust	6,  1945, the amount of Rs. 32,500/received  by	 theassessee  was  professional  income in	his  hand.   It	 is,therefore, appropriate to refer first to the recitals in thetrust deed.  The respondent stated in the trust deed that hehad  "decreased" his legal practice for the last  few  yearsand had reserved his professional income accruing after June1944  for  payment of taxes and charity.  He  then  said:  "accordingly,  I have been acting on that.  In  the  Farrukh-Dagar, district Gurgaon case, Crown v. Chuttan Lal etc., therelatives  and the accused expressed a strong desire to	 getthe case conducted by me during its trial.  At last on theirpersistence and promise that they would provide me with	 Rs.40,000/- for charitable purposes and I would create a publiccharitable trust thereof I agreed to conduct the case.	 Thecase  is  now over.  The accused and  their  relatives	havegiven me Rs. 32,500/- for charity and creating a trust.	 Thesaid amount has been deposited in the Bank.  If they pay anyother  amount  that will also be included in  that.   Accor-dingly,	 I create this trust with the  following  conditionsand  with the said amount and any other amount which may  berealized  afterwards  or  included  in	the  trust;".  (thenfollowed  the  name  and objects of the	 trust,	 etc.).	 TheTribunal   accepted  as	 correct  the  statements   of	 therespondent  that  he was at first unwilling  to	 accept	 thebrief  in  the Farrukhnagar case; he was then  persuaded  toaccept it at the request of some members of the Bar and someinfluential  local  people  on	the  understanding,  as	 therespondent  put	 it, that the accused persons of  that	casewould-provide Rs. 40,000/- for a charitable trust which	 therespondent  would  create.   Eventually,  the  sum  of	 Rs.32,500/-  was paid by or on behalf of the  accused  persons,and  as	 the  Tribunal has put it, a  charitable  trust	 wascreated by the respondent by the trust deed dated August  6,1945, the recitals whereof we have q noted above.The question before us is what is the proper legal inferencefrom  the aforesaid facts found by the Tribunal.   Both	 theTribunal and the High Court have drawn the inference that  acharitable trust was created79by  the persons who paid the money to the assessee, and	 allthat  the assessee did under the deed of trust dated  August6,  1945, was to reduce the terms of the trust	to  writing.The  High Court, therefore, applied the principle laid	downby  the	 Privy	Council	 in Raja  Bejoy	 Singh	Dudhuria  v.Commissioner of Income-tax, Bengal (1) and observed that  bythe  overriding	 obligation imposed on the assessee  by	 thepersons	 who  paid the money, the sum of Rs.  32,500/  neverbecame	the  income of the assessee; and the  amount  becametrust property as soon as it was paid, there being no  ques-tion  of  the  application  of part of	his  income  by	 theassessee.On  behalf of the appellant it has been contended  that	 theinference which the Tribunal and the High Court drew is	 notthe proper legal inference which flows from the facts found,and  according to the learned Attorney-General who  appearedfor  the  appellant the proper legal inference is  that	 theamount	was  received by the assessee  as  his	professionalincome	in respect of which he later created a trust by	 thedeed  of trust dated August 6, 1945.  He has submitted	thatthere  was no trust nor any legal obligation imposed on	 theassessee by the persons who paid the money, at the time whenthe  money  was received, which prevented  the	amount	frombecoming  the professional income of the assessee.   He	 hasalso contended that even the existence of a trust will	makeno  difference,	 unless it can be held that  the  money	 wasdiverted  to that trust before it could become	professionalincome in the hands of the assessee.We  think  that	 the question raised in	 this  case  can  bedecided by a very short answer, and that answer is that fromthe  facts found by the Tribunal the proper legal  inferenceis that the sum of Rs. 32,500/- paid to the assessee was hisprofessional  income  at the time when it was  paid  and  notrust or obligation in the nature of a trust was created  atthat  time,  and when the assessee created a  trust  by	 thetrust  deed  of	 August	 6, 1945, he  applied  part  of	 hisprofessional income as trust property.	If that is the	trueconclusion as we hold it to be, then the principle laid down(1)  [1933] 1 I.T.R. 135.80by the Privy Council in Bejoy Singh Dudhuria's case (1)	 hasno application.	 It is indeed true, as has been observed  bythe High Court, that a trust may be created by any  languagesufficient to show the intention and no technical words	 arenecessary.  A trust may even be created by the use of  wordswhich are primarily words of condition, but such words	willconstitute  a trust only " where the requisites of  a  trustare present, namely, where there are purposes independent ofthe  donee  to	which  the subject-matter  of  the  gift  isrequired  to  be applied and an obligation on the  donee  tosatisfy	 those purposes." The findings of the Tribunal	showclearly	 enough	 that the persons who paid the	sum  of	 Rs.32,500/-  did  not  use any words of  an  imperative  naturecreating  a  trust or an obligation.  They were	 anxious  tohave the services of the assessee in the Farrukhnagar  case;the assessee was at first unwilling to give his services andlater  he  agreed proposing that he would himself  create  acharitable trust out of the money paid to him for  defendingthe accused persons in the Farrukhnagar case.  The  positionis clarified beyond any doubt by the statements made in	 thetrust  deed  of August 6, 1945.	 The assessee  said  thereinthat he was reserving his professional income as an advocateaccruing after June, 1944 for payments of taxes and  charityand,  accordingly, when he received his professional  incomein  the Farrukhnagar case he created a charitable trust	 outof the money so received.  The clear statement in the  trustdeed,  a statement accepted as correct by the  Tribunal,  isthat the assessee created a trust on certain conditions etc.It  is	not stated anywhere that the persons  who  paid	 themoney  created	a  trust or imposed  a	legally	 enforceableobligation  on	the  assessee.	Even in	 his  affidavit	 theassessee  had stated that " it was agreed that	the  accusedwould  provide Rs. 40,000/- for a charitable trust  which  Iwould  create in case I defend them, on an absolutely  clearand  express understanding that the money would not be	usedfor  any  private  and	personal  purposes."  Even  in	thisaffidavit  there is no suggestion that the persons who	paidthe money created the(1)  [1933] 1 I.T.R. 135.81trust or imposed any obligation on the assessee.  It was theassessee's own voluntary desire that he would create a trustout  of	 the  fees paid to him	for  defending	the  accusedpersons	 in the Farrukhnagar case.  Such a voluntary  desireon  the	 part of the assessee created no trust, nor  did  itgive  rise  to any legally enforceable obligation.   In	 thecircumstances  the Appellate Assistant Commissioner  rightlypointed	 out  that " if the accused persons  had  themselvesresolved  to  create  a charitable trust in  memory  of	 theprofessional  aid rendered to them by the appellant and	 hadmade  the assessee trustee for the money so paid to him	 forthat  purpose, it could, perhaps, be argued that  the  moneypaid  was earmarked for charity ab initio but of this  therewas no indication anywhere".  In our opinion the view  takenby  the	 Appellate Assistant Commissioner  was	the  correctview.	The money when it was received by the  assessee	 washis professional income, though the assessee had expressed adesire earlier to create a charitable trust out of the moneywhen  received by him.	Once it is held that the amount	 wasreceived as his professional income, the assessee is clearlyliable	to  pay	 tax thereon.  In our  opinion	the  correctanswer	to the question referred to the High Court  is	thatthe  amount  of Rs. 32,500/- received by  the  assessee	 wasprofessional income taxable in his hands.Learned	 Counsel  for the respondent has referred  us  to  anumber	of decisions where the principle laid down in  BejoySingh  Dudhuria's  Case (1) was applied, and  has  contendedthat where there is an allocation of a sum out of revenue asa  result  of an overriding title or  obligation  before  itbecomes income in the hands of the assessee, the  allocationmay  be	 the result of a decree of a court,  an	 arbitrationaward or even the provisions of a will or deed.	 In view  ofthe  conclusion	 at  which we have  arrived,  the  decisionsrelied	upon  can  hardly  help and  it	 is  unnecessary  toconsider  them.	  Our  conclusion  is  that  there  was	  nooverriding  obligation imposed on the assessee at  the	timewhen the sum of Rs. 32,500/- was received by him.(1)  [1933] 1 I.T.R. 135.82Accordingly, we allow this appeal and set aside the judgmentand order of the High Court.  The answer to the question  isin  favour  of the appellant, namely, that the	sum  of	 Rs.32,500/-  received  by	the assessee  was  his	professionalincome taxable in his hands.  The appellant will be entitledto his costs throughout.				     Appeal allowed.