PETITIONER:THE STATE OF BIHAR & OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:BHABAPRITANANDA OJHADATE OF JUDGMENT:15/04/1959BENCH:DAS, S.K.BENCH:DAS, S.K.DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1073		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 624 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1963 SC 853	 (11)ACT:Hindu  Religious  Trusts-Constitutional	 validity  of  BiharHindu Religious Trusts Act-Trust Properties situate  outsideBihar  Legislative  competence-Scheme framed  for  Trust  byCalcutta High Court-Applicability of Act to such Trust-BiharHindu  Religious Trusts Act, 1950 (Bihar 1 Of 1951), ss.  3,4(5), 28,29Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act 5 of 1908), s.92-Constitution of India, Arts. 14, 19(1)(f), 25, 26, 27.HEADNOTE:In  respect  of an ancient temple situate in  the  State  ofBihar,	disputes arose in I897 between the high	 priest	 andthe  "	pandas " regarding the control of the  temple  whichultimately  led to a suit being filed under S. 539  (now  s.92)  Of	 the Code of Civil Procedure, in the  Court  of	 theDistrict  judge	 of Burdwan and a decree was passed  by	 theAdditional  District judge, under which a scheme was  framedfor  the  proper management of the temple.  The	 decree	 wasconfirmed  by the Calcutta High Court and the scheme  itselfwas later modified from time to time by the said High Court.After  the  coming into force of the Bihar  Hindu  ReligiousTrusts Act, 1950, the President of the Bihar State Board  ofReligious  Trusts, acting under S. 59 of the Act,  served  anotice	on  the respondent, who had  been  appointed  SardarPanda for the temple under the scheme, asking him to furnisha  statement  in respect of the temple	and  the  propertiesappertaining  thereto.	The respondent made  an	 applicationunder  Art.  226 of the Constitution to the  High  Court  ofPatna  challenging the validity of the action taken  againsthim on the grounds (1) that the Bihar625Hindu Religious Trusts Act, 1950, was ultra vires the  BiharLegislature,  (2)  that the Bihar Legislature did  not	havelegislative  competence to deal with the temple in  questionas  some of the properties appertaining to the	temple	weresituate	 outside Bihar, and (3) that, in any case,  the	 Actdid  not apply to the temple by reason of the fact that	 thetemple	and its properties were administered under a  schememade  by  the  Court of the District Judge  of	Burdwan	 andapproved  by  the  Calcutta High Court both  of	 which	weresituate	  outside  the	territorial  limits  of	 Bihar,	  asotherwise  the Act by some of its provisions would  seek  tointerfere with the jurisdiction of courts which are  outsideBihar and thereby get extra-territorial operation.Held:	  (1)  that  the Bihar Hindu Religious	Trusts	Act,1950, is intra vires the Bihar State LegislatureMahant	Moti  Das v. S. P. Sahi, [1959] SUPP. 2	 S.C.R.	 563followed.(2)  that  it  is  competent to	 the  Bihar  Legislature  tolegislate  in respect of religious trusts situate  in  Biharthough some of the properties belonging to the trust may  beoutside Bihar;State of Bihay v. Charusila Dasi, [1959] SUPP. 2 S.C.R.	 601followed.(3)  that the provision of law in sub-s. (5) of s. 4 Of	 theAct by which s. 92 Of the Code of Civil Procedure shall	 notapply  to  any	religious trust in the State  of  Bihar,  isvalid; and(4)  that  as under s. 4(5) Of the Act religious  trusts  inBihar  are taken out of the purview of s. 92 Of the Code  ofCivil  Procedure, the jurisdiction of the District judge  ofBurdwan	 or the Calcutta High Court to deal with the  templein  question under s. 92 comes to an end;  consequently	 theAct  and its several provisions do not suffer from the	viceof extra-territoriality and the Act applies to the temple inquestion and the properties appertaining thereto.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 236 of 1954.Appeal from the judgment and order dated October 9,1953,  ofthe  Patna-High	 Court in Misc.	 Judicial Case	No.  181  of1953. Mahabir  Prasad, Advocate-General for the State  of  Bihar,Bhagwat Prasad and S. P. Varma, for the appellants.P.   R. Das, A. C. Roy and R. R. Biswas, for the respondent.1959.  April 15.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered by79615S.   K.	 DAS,  J.-This is an appeal from  the  judgment	 andorder  of the High Court of Patna dated October 9, 1953,  inMiscellaneous  Judicial Case No. 181 of 1953 of that  Court.It  relates  to a temple commonly known	 as  the  Baidyanathtemple	situate in the town of Deoghar within the limits  ofSantal Parganas in the State of Bihar.For  the  purposes of this appeal it will  be  necessary  torefer  to  some earlier litigation about this  temple.	 Thehistory	 'of this temple, it is not disputed, goes  back  toremote antiquity.  According to Hindu tradition referred  toin  the Siva Purana and Padma Purana, extracts	from  which,with  translations, are given by Dr. Rajendra Lal  Mitra  inhis  paper  on the Temples of Deoghar (see  Journal  of	 theAsiatic Society of Bengal, Part 1, 1883, quoted in the BiharDistrict   Gazetteer  relating	to  Santal  Parganas,	1938edition' pp. 373-376), the origin of the temple is traced tothe  Treta  Yuga, which was the second age of the  world  byHindu  mythology.  Side by side with Hindu tradition,  thereis  a Santal tradition of the origin of the temple given  bySir William Hunter (see the Annals of Rural Bengal, p. 191 ;Satistical  Account  of Bengal, Vol.  XIV,,  p.	 323).	 Butthese  materials afford no evidence as to when and  by	whomthe idol was established or the temple was built.The  temple  sheltering	 the " lingam  "  and  dedicated  toMahadeva  stands  in a stone-paved  quadrangular  courtyard.The courtyard contains eleven other temples, smaller in sizeand  of less importance than that of  Baidyanath.   Pilgrimsvisit  the  temples in large numbers and make  offerings  offlowers	 and  money  in silver or gold;	 rich  people  offerhorses,	  cattle,  palanquins,	gold  ornaments	 and   othervaluables  and sometimes, rent-free land in support  of	 thedaily  worship.	  There is a high or  chief  priest  (SardarPanda) who it appears used to pay a fixed rent to the  Rajasof   Birbhum   during  the  Muhammadan	 regime,   and	 theadministration	of the temple was then left entirely in	 thehands of the high priest.  It may be here stated that  about300  families  of  " pandas ", who belong  to  a  branch  ofMaithil Brahmins, were attached to the627temple and earned their livelihood by assisting pilgrims  inperforming the various ceremonies connected with the worshipof the God.  When the British rule began, it was decided  totake over the management of the temple, and with this objectan  establishment of  priests, collectors and  watchmen	 wasorganised  in 1787 at Government expense.  The revenue	soonfell off, as the chief priest beset the avenues to the	tem-ples with emissaries, who induced the pilgrims to make theirofferings  before approaching the shrine. (See the  DistrictGazetteer,  ibid, p. 383).  In 1791 Government	relinquishedits  claim  to a share of the offerings	 and  entrusted	 themanagement of the temple to the head priest on his executingan  agreement to keep the temples in repair and	 to  performall  the usual ceremonies.  This agreement was entered	intoby  Ram Dutt (the ancestor of the present respondent),	thenhigh  priest  of  the temple and Mr, Keating  who  was	thenCollector  of  the district.  According to Mr.	Keating	 theincome	of the temple in 1791 consisted of the offerings  ofthe proceeds of 32 villages and 108 bighas of land which  heestimated  at Rs. 2,000 a year; some years later  the  totalincome was estimated at Rs. 25,000 a year.  Under the systemintroduced  by the agreement of 1791, the  mismanagement  ofthe  temple was a source of constant complaint;	 the  templeand  "	ghats " were frequently out of repair and  the	highpriest was charged with alienating villages from the  templeand  treating his situation as a means of enriching  himselfand  his family.  On the death of the high priest in 1820  adispute	 over  the succession arose between an uncle  and  anephew.	 The nephew Nityanand was eventually appointed,	 butneglected  to  carry  out  the	terms  of  his	appointment.Finally,  Nityanand  was charged with  malversation  of	 thefunds and the uncle Sarbanand was appointed in his stead  in1823.  There was a faction which was opposed to	 Sarbanand'sretention  in- office and asked for Government	interferencein   the  internal  management	of  the	 temple.   In	1835Government  declined all interference in the matter and	 theparties were left to have recourse to the established courtsof law.	 Sarbanand628died in 1837 and Iswaranund Ojha, son of Sarbanand Ojha, wassubsequently elected Sardar-Panda.  Iswaranund was succeededby his grand-son, Sailajanund Ojha.There  were,  however, frequent disputes  between  the	highpriest	and  the  " pandas " regarding the  control  of	 thetemple and in 1897 a suit was filed under s. 539 (now s. 92)of the Code of Civil Procedure in the Court of the  DistrictJudge  of Burdwan.  This was Suit No. 18 of 1897  which	 wasdecided by the learned Additional District Judge of  Burdwanby  his judgment dated July 4, 1901.  Sailajanund  Ojha	 wasdismissed  by the order of the court, as he by	his  conductand behavior and by causing loss to the Debutter  propertiesrendered himself unfit and disqualified to hold the post  ofSardar	Panda and trustee of the temple of  Baidyanath.	  Itwas further ordered-by the learned Additional District Judgein the decree granted by him that some fit person be electedas Sardar Panda by the " pandas " of the temple and that theaffairs	 of the temple be managed under a scheme  which	 wasframed by the learned Additional District Judge and formed apart of the decree.  Under this scheme three persons were tobe appointed to look after the temple and its properties andfor a proper administration of the same.  One of these threepersons	 was to be elected from amongst the  descendants  ofRam Dutt Jha.  After this Umesbanund Dutt Jha, second son ofIswaranund Ojha, was elected Sardar Panda.  On the death  ofUmeshanund  Dutt  Jha,	Bhabapritananda Ojha,  who  was	 thepetitioner  in the High Court and is now  respondent  beforeus,  was  appointed Sardar Panda.   Bhabapritananda  is	 thegrand-son  of  Sailajanund Ojha, and we.  shall	 hereinafterrefer to him as the respondent.The  scheme which was framed as a result of the decision  inCivil Suit No. 18 of 1897 was confirmed by the Calcutta HighCourt  and  the decision of the High Court  is	reported  inShailajananda  Dut  Jha v. Umeshanunda Dut  Jha	 (1).	Thisscheme was modified in a subsequent litigation in 1909, whenone of the members of the committee applied to the  DistrictJudge(1)  (19O5) 2 C.L.J. 460.629for a modification of the scheme.  The application was firstdismissed,  but	 the matter was taken to the  Calcutta	HighCourt, and on September 8, 1910, that Court on the authorityof the decision of the Judicial Committee in Prayag Doss  v.Tirumala (1) and with the consent of counsel on both  sides,directed the insertion of two clauses in the decree ; by oneof  these  clauses,  liberty  was  reserved  to	 any  personinterested  to apply to the District Court of  Burdwan	withreference  to  the  carrying out of the	 directions  of	 thescheme and by the other clause, liberty was reserved to	 anyperson interested to apply from time to time to the CalcuttaHigh  Court  for any modification of the scheme	 that  mightappear necessary or convenient.	 Under these two clauses themembers	 of  the  committee  subsequently  applied  to	 theDistrict  Judge of Burdwan that certain directions might  begiven  to  the	high priest ; the high	priest	opposed	 theapplication  on	 the  ground  that  it	was  in	 essence  anapplication  for  modification of the scheme  and  could  beentertained  only by the High Court.  The  learned  DistrictJudge overruled this objection.	 The matter was again  takento the Calcutta High Court and that Court directed (1)	thatthe  committee must prepare ail annual budget of the  incomeand  expenditure;  (2)	that  provision	 must  be  made	 forquarterly  audit and annual inspection of the accounts;	 (3)that  provision	 should	 be made for joint  control  of	 thetemple funds after they have been realised ; (4) that  theremust  be no undue interference on the part of the  committeewith  the  high	 priest in the internal	 management  of	 thetemple;	 and (5) that no one who has any pecuniary  interestin  the temple properties or is a creditor of the  endowmentshould	serve  on  the committee.  The	High  Court  furtherdirected   that	  clauses  embodying  the   aforesaid	fivedirections should be inserted in the scheme.  This  decisionof  the High Court is reported in Umeshananda Dutta  Jha  v.Sir Ravaneswar Prasad Singh (2).We  now	 come  to  more recent events  which  gave  rise  toMiscellaneous Judicial Case No. 181 of 1953 in the(1) (196) I.L.R. 3o Mad. 138.(2) (1912) 17 C.W.N. 871.630Patna  High  Court.  The Bihar Hindu Religious	Trusts	Act,1950 (Bihar I of 1951), hereinafter referred to as the	Act,received  the President's assent on February 21,  1951,	 andcame  into force on August 15. 1951.  This  Act	 establishedthe  Bihar State Board of Religious Trusts to discharge	 thefunctions  assigned  to the Board by the Act.	Sometime  inAugust	1952  the  President of the  Bihar  State  Board  ofReligious  Trusts  acting under s. 59 of the Act  asked	 therespondent  to	furnish	 a  statement  in  respect  of	 theBaidyanath temple and the. properties appertaining  thereto.The respondent wrote back to say that the administration  ofthe  temple  and  its  properties was  in  the	hands  of  acommittee  constituted under a scheme made by  the  DistrictJudge  of Burdwan and approved by the Calcutta	High  Court,and these Courts being outside the jurisdiction of the BiharLegislature,  the  Act did not apply to the temple  and	 therespondent was not in a position to carry out the directionsof  the	 President  of the Bihar State	Board  of  ReligiousTrusts which might be in conflict with those of the CalcuttaHigh  Court.   The Board, however, proceeded to	 assess	 anddemand	payment	 of  Rs. 1,684-6-6 as  fee  payable  by	 therespondent  in respect of the Baidyanath temple to it  unders.  70 of the Act.  The respondent then made an	 applicationunder  Art.  226 of the Constitution to the  High  Court  ofPatna, which application gave rise to Miscellaneous JudicialCase  No. 181 of 1953.	On various grounds  stated  therein,the respondent con. tended that the Act was ultra vires	 theBihar Legislature ; he further contended that even if  intravires,	the  Act  properly construed did not  apply  to	 theBaidyanath temple and the properties appertaining thereto byreason	of  the circumstance that the said  temple  and	 itsproperties  were  administered under a scheme  made  by	 thecourt  of the District Judge of Burdwan and approved by	 theCalcutta  High Court both of which are situate	outside	 theterritorial 'limits of Bihar.The  State  of Bihar, the Bihar State Board of	Reli.  giousTrusts and the President thereof, now appellants before	 us,contested the application.  Relying on the631principles  (1) that there should be as far as	possible  noconflict  or  clash  of	 jurisdiction  between	two  equallycompetent  authorities and (2) that no intention  to  exceedits own jurisdiction can be imputed to the Bihar Legislatureand  of two possible constructions of the Act, the one	thatwould  make  it intra vires should be  preferred,  the	HighCourt came to the conclusion that the expression " religioustrust " as defined in s. 2 (1) of the Act must be  construednot in the plain and grammatical sense but must be cut	downso  as to exclude such religious trusts as are	administeredunder  a  scheme  made	by  a  court  situate  outside	 theterritorial limits of Bihar and, therefore, the Act did	 notapply  to  the Baidyanath temple and the  President  of	 theBihar State Board of Religious Trusts constituted under	 theAct had no jurisdiction to take any proceedings against	 therespondent  under the provisions of the	 Act.	Accordingly,the  High Court allowed the application of  the	 respondent,quashed the proceedings taken against him by the Bihar StateBoard of Religious Trusts, and issued a writ prohibiting thesaid  Board from taking any further proceedings against	 therespondent under any of the provisions of the Act.The  State  of	Bihar, the Bihar State	Board  of  ReligiousTrusts	and its President obtained a certificate under	Art.132 of the Constitution from the High Court and the  presentappeal	has  been  filed  by  them  in	pursuance  of	thatcertificate.	We   shall   hereinafter   refer   to	themcompendiously as the appellants.We  have  had  before us a number of appeals  in  which	 thevalidity  of the Act has been challenged on several  groundsand in some of these appeals, further questions were  raisedas to the application of the Act to private religious trustsand  even  to  public trusts some properties  of  which	 aresituate outside the State of Bihar.  These appeals we put infour categories.  They have been heard one after another andthough we are delivering judgment in each category separate-ly, it has been made clear that the reasons for the decisionon  points  which are common to all or some of	the  appealsneed not be repeated in each judgment. In Civil Appeals Nos.225, 226, 228, 229 and 248 of6321955  (1),  which fall in the first category, we  have	con-sidered	 the questions if the Act is bad on the ground	thatits several provisions infringe the appellants'	 fundamentalrights	guaranteed  under Art. 14, Art. 19 (1)	(f),  and/orArts.  25, 26 and 27 of the Constitution, or on	 the  groundthat it imposes an unauthorised tax.  We have given  reasonsfor  our  conclusion that the Act is not bad on any  of	 theaforesaid  grounds.  These reasons we do not wish to  repeathere;  they govern the present appeal also in so far as	 theAct is challenged on the self-same grounds.  In Civil AppealNo.  343  of 1955 (2), which is in the second  category,  wehave  dealt  at	 length with the definition  clause  of	 theexpression  "  religious  trust " in the  context  of  otherprovisions of the Act, and have come to the conclusion	thatthe  Act  does not apply to private trusts.  In	 the  appealunder  consideration in this judgment the admitted  positionis  that the Baidyanath temple is a public trust; so it	 washeld  in  the earlier litigation to which  we  have  alreadyreferred  and the scheme was formulated on that	 footing  inSuit  No. 18 of 1897.  In Civil Appeal No. 230 of 1955	(3),which is the third category, we have considered the questionif the Act suffers from the vice of extra-territoriality  byreason	of the provisions in s. 3, which says that  the	 Actshall apply to all religious trusts, whether created  beforeor  after  the	commencement of the Act,  any  part  of	 theproperty of which is situate in the State of Bihar.  We haveheld  therein that two conditions must be fulfilled for	 theapplication   of   the	Act-(a)	 the  religious	  trust	  orinstitution  itself  must be in Bihar and (b)  part  of	 itsproperty must be situated in the State of Bihar.  Those	 twoconditions are fulfilled in this case; the Baidyanath templeis in Bihar and it is admitted that the properties belongingto  the	 temple lie mainly in Bihar though  there  are	someproperties  in	the districts of  Burdwan,  Murshidabad	 andBirbhum in the present State of West Bengal.Now, we come to the points which have been(1)  Mahant Moti Das v. S. P. Sahi, see p. 563, ante.(2)  Mahant  Ram  Saroop Dasji v. S. P. Sahi,  see  P.	583,ante.(3)  State of Bihar v.	Charusila Dasi, see p. 601, ante.633specially  raised in this appeal, which is in the fourth  orlast category.	On behalf of the appellants it has been verystrongly  contended  that  the High Court was  in  error  inrelying	 on  the  doctrine of comity  of  jurisdictions	 andcutting	 down the scope of the Act on such a  doctrine.	  Ithas   been  submitted  that  the  doctrine  of	 comity	  ofjurisdictions has no application to the facts of the presentcase and there is no possibility of any conflict or clash ofjurisdiction between two equally competent authorities.	  Itis  pointed out that item 28 of the Concurrent List  in	 theSeventh Schedule to the Constitution of India is " Charitiesand   charitable  institutions,	 charitable  and   religiousendowments  and religious institutions ". It is argued	thatthe  Bihar  Legislature	 has,  therefore,  full	 legislativecompetence to enact the statute in question, and it has beensubmitted  that if the Act does not suffer from the vice  ofextra-territoriality,  then it is good and all	courts	mustobey  it.  Under s. 4 (5) of the Act, s. 92 of the  Code  ofCivil Procedure, 1908, has ceased to apply to any  religioustrust as defined in the Act ; therefore, no action under  s.92,  Code  of  Civil  Procedure, can  be  taken,  after	 thecommencement  of the Act, in respect of religious trusty  inBihar  which  are governed by the Act and there	 can  be  noquestion of any conflict of jurisdiction in respect of	suchtrusts as between the Bihar State Board of Religious  Trustsand a court in.Bihar on one side and the courts outside	 theState of Bihar on the other.  On these submissions,  learnedcounsel for the appellants has argued that the real questionfor  decision is if the Act or any of its provisions  sufferfrom  the vice of extra-territoriality and if that  questionis answered in favour of the appellants, then the High Courtwas in error in cutting down the scope and ambit of the	 Actby invoking the doctrine of comity of Jurisdictions.At  this  stage	 it is convenient to set out  in  brief	 theargument  which	 Mr.  P. R. Das,  learned  counsel  for	 therespondent,  has advanced in support of the judgment of	 theHigh Court.  In one part of its judgment, the High Court hasreferred to the principle that every80634statute	 should be so interpreted and applied, in so far  asits  language  admits, as not to be  inconsistent  with	 thecomity	 of  nations  or  with	the  established  rules	  ofinternational law, and has referred to certain decisions  insupport	 of  that  principle.  Mr. P.  R.  Das	has  franklyconceded  before  us that no question of  any  inconsistencywith,'	the comity of nations or with the established  rulesof international law arises in the present case and he	doesnot  contend that the Act or any of its	 provisions  violateany established rule of international law.  Therefore, it isunnecessary  to	 consider this part of the judgment  of	 theHigh  Court.   Before  us Mr. P. R. Das	 has  developed	 hisargument in the following way.	He has first submitted	thatSuit No. 18 of 1897 which was instituted in the court of theDistrict  Judge	 of  Burdwan in respect	 of  the  Baidyanathtemple	 and  its  properties  is  still  pending  and	 theadministration	of  the temple and its properties  is  beingcarried	 on by a committee appointed under a scheme made  bythe  District  Judge  of  Burdwan  and	later  approved	 andmodified by the Calcutta High Court; therefore, the DistrictJudge  of  Burdwan and the Calcutta High Court are  in	fullseizin	of  the	 trust and its	properties,  and  the  BiharLegislature   cannot  take  away  or  interfere	  with	 thejurisdiction of either the District Judge of Burdwan or	 theCalcutta High Court.  In this connection he has referred  tocl.  39	 of  the Letters Patent of  the	 Patna	High  Court,particularly to item (a) of the first proviso thereto.	Thatclause is in these terms:-" And We do further ordain that the jurisdiction of the HighCourt of Judicature at Fort William in Bengal in any  matterin which jurisdiction is by these presents given to the HighCourt  of Judicature at Patna' shall cease from the date  ofthe publication of these presents, and that all	 proceedingspending in the former Court on that date in reference to anysuch matter shall be transferred to the latter Court:Provided,  first, that the High Court of Judicature at	FortWilliam in Bengal shall continue to exercise jurisdiction-(a)  in all proceedings pending in that Court on635the  date of the publication of these presents in which	 anydecree	or order,' other than an order of  an  interlocutorynature,	 has been passed or made by that Court, or in  whichthe validity of any such decree or order is  directly	  inquestion; and(b)  in all proceedings (not being proceedings referred	 toin paragraph (a) of this clause) pending inpresents  under	 the  13th, 15th, 22nd,	 23rd,	24th,  25th,presents under the 13th, 15th, 22nd, 23rd, 24th, 25th, 26th,27th,  28th,  29th, 32nd, 33rd, 34th or 35th clause  of	 theLetters Patent bearing date at Westminster the Twenty-eighthday of December, in the year of Our Lord One thousand  eighthundred and sixty-five, relating to that Court; and(c)  in,  all  proceedings instituted in that Court,  on  orafter  the date of the publication of these  presents,	withreference  to  any decree or order passed or  made  by	thatCourt:Provided,  secondly,  that,  if any question  arises  as  towhether	 any  case is covered by the first proviso  to	thisclause, the matter shall be referred to the Chief Justice ofthe  High Court of Judicature at Fort William in Bengal	 andhis  decision  shall be final ". His argument  is  that	 thescheme	made  by  the District Judge of	 Burdwan  and  laterapproved by the Calcutta High Court can be modified only  bythe  Calcutta  High Court and that High Court  continues  toexercise  jurisdiction in respect of the scheme	 under	item(a) of the first proviso to clause 39 referred to above, andcl.  41	 of the Letters Patent does not	 empower  the  BiharLegislature  to	 amend	any of the clauses  of	the  LettersPatent.	 He has also submitted that on February 9, 1917, theCalcutta  High	Court  decided	that  any  application	 forenforcement of the scheme would lie to the District Judge ofBurdwan and not to the Deputy Commissioner of Dumka.  It maybe  stated here that Burdwan is in the State of West  Bengaland  Dumka  in	the  State of Bihar.   Mr.  P.	R.  Das	 hascontended  that	 in  so far as the  provisions	of  the	 Actinterfere  with	 the jurisdiction of courts  outside  Bihar,they have extra-territorial operation and must be held to bebad636on that ground; because under Art. 245 of the  Constitution,the  Bihar  Legislature may make laws for the whole  or	 anypart of the State of Bihar, but it cannot make any law whichwill  have  extra-territorial operation.  He has  drawn	 ourattention  to the provisions of ss. 3, 4 (5) and 28  of	 theAct,  and has laid particular emphasis on the provisions  ofs.  29 of the Act, which provisions, according to him,	haveextra-territorial operation.Having set out in some detail the arguments which have	beenadvanced  before  us  on behalf of the	appellants  and	 therespondent,  we proceed now to consider them on merits.	  Weagree with learned counsel for the parties that no  questionarises	in this case of any conflict or	 inconsistency	withthe  doctrine of comity of nations or with  any	 establishedrule of international law.  The question which really arisesfor  decision  is if any of the provisions of the  Act	haveextra-territorial operation.  This question has two aspects.First,	there  is s. 3 which says inter alia  that  the	 Actshall  apply  to  all  religious trusts,  any  part  of	 theproperty  of which is situated in-the State of	Bihar.	 Theargument  is  that  the Bihar Legislature has  no  power  tolegislate   about  trust  property  which  is  outside	 theterritorial limits of Bihar and s. 3 of the Act in so far asit  seeks to operate on trust property outside	Bihar  makesthe  Act bad on the ground of  extra-territorial  operation.This  part  of the argument has been fully  dealt  with	 andrejected  in the decision relating to the  Charusila  Trust,Civil  Appeal No. 230 of 1955 (1).  The second facet of	 theargument  is  what Mr. P. R. Das  has  specially  emphasisedbefore us in this appeal.  His argument in substance is thatthe  Act by some of its provisions seeks to  interfere	withthe jurisdiction of courts which are outside Bihar, and thisin  effect is the vice of extra-territorial  operation	fromwhich, according to him, the Act suffers.We are unable to agree with him in this contention.  Section3  we  have already referred to.  Sub-section (5)  of  s.  4states inter alia that s. 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure,1908, shall not apply to any religious trust(1)  State of Bihar v. Charusila Dasi, see p. 601, ante.637in  the	 State	of Bihar as defined in	the  Act.   We	haveconsidered  the effect of this sub-section in  the  decisionrelating  to the Charusila Trust (ibid) and have  held	thatthe  Act applies when the trust itself, temple or  deity  ormath,  is situate in Bihar and also some of its property  isin Bihar.  We have pointed out therein that the trust  beingsituatedin  Bihar, that State has legislative power over  itand over its trustees and their servants or agents who	mustbe  in Bihar to administer the trust ; therefore,  there  isreally	no  question  of the  Act  having  extra-territorialoperation.  In our opinion, this reasoning is equally  validin respect of the argument of Mr. P. R. Das.  If, as we haveheld,  it is open to the Bihar Legislature to  legislate  inrespect	 of  relgious  trusts situate in  Bihar,  then	thatLegislature  can make a law which says, as in sub-s. (5)  ofs.  4 of the Act, that s. 92 of the Code of Civil  Procedureshall  not  apply  to any religious trust in  the  State  ofBihar.	If sub-s. (5) of s. 4 of the Act is valid as we holdit  is, then no question really arises of  interfering	withthe jurisdiction of the District Judge of Burdwan or of	 theCalcutta  High	Court in respect of the	 Baidyanath  temple,inasmuch  as those courts exercised that jurisdiction  unders.  92, Code of Civil Procedure, which no longer applies  tothe  Baidyanath	 temple	 and  the  properties	appertainingthereto, after the commencement of the Act.  It is true thatthe  Act  does put an end to the jurisdiction under  s.	 92,Code  of  Civil	 Procedure, of all  courts  with  regard  toreligious  trusts  situate  in Bihar, but that	it  does  bytaking	these trusts out of the purview of s. 92.  In  otherwords,	the Act does not take away the jurisdiction  of	 anycourt outside Bihar but takes the religious trusts in  Biharout of the operation of s. 92 so that a court outside  Biharin exercise of its jurisdiction under s. 92 will decline  todeal with a religious trust situate in Bihar just as it willdecline	 to entertain a suit under that section regarding  aprivate	 trust	of religious or	 charitable  nature.   CivilProcedure,  including  all matters included in the  Code  ofCivil Procedure at the commencement of the Constitution,  isitem  13 of the Concurrent List.  It has not  been  disputedbefore us that it is open to the Bihar638Legislature  to	 amend	the Code of  Civil  Procedure  whilelegislating in respect of religious endowments and religiousinstitutions  in  Bihar, and the President's  assent  havingbeep  received	to  the	 Act, the  law	made  by  the  BiharLegislature shall prevail in that State, under.	 Art. 254(2)of  the	 Constitution, in respect of  all  religious  trustssituate	 in  Bihar.   In  this view of	the  matter,  it  isunnecessary to consider the further questions if Suit No. 18of 1897 is still pending, the proper scope and effect of cl.39 of the Letters Patent of the Patna High Court, and  whichauthority can amend the Letters Patent.	 Even if Suit No. 18of  1897 is deemed to be still pending, though we do not  sodecide,	 any further action under the scheme in	 respect  ofthe Baidyanath temple and its properties can be taken eitherby the District Judge of Burdwan or the Calcutta High  Courtonly if the jurisdiction under s. 92, Civil Procedure  Code,is  still preserved in respect of it. If  that	jurisdictionhas  come to an end in respect of the Baidyanath temple	 andits  properties,  then	no  question  of  any  conflict	  ofjurisdiction  between  two  equally  competent	 authoritiesarises	at  all, apart altogether from	the  more  debatablequestion as to whether the Bihar Legislature on one side andthe  courts in Bengal on the other can be said at all to  beequally	 competent  authorities in respect  of	a  religioustrust  situate in Bihar.  The question really boils down  tothis.	Is  the Act bad on the ground  of  extra-territorialoperation, because it takes certain religious trusts situatein  Bihar  out	of  the purview. of s.	92,  Code  of  CivilProcedure  ?  If  the  answer to this  question	 is  in	 thenegative,  then all the hurdles created by the	argument  ofMr. P. R. Das must disappear; because if the Act is good, itmust be bindingonall courts and no question of any  conflictof jurisdiction can arise.Learned	 counsel  for  the respondent  has  made  a  pointedreference  to  ss. 28 and 29 of the Act.  Section  28  dealswith  the general powers and duties of the Board.   We	haveexamined  these	 powers	 and  duties  in  our  decision	  inconnected  Civil Appeals Nos. 225, 226, 228, 229 and 248  of1955 (1) and have held that(1)  Mahant Moti Das v. S.P. Sahi, see P. 563, ante.639there  is  nothing in these powers and duties which  can  besaid to have extra-territorial operation.  Our attention hasbeen drawn to el. (j) of s. 28 (2) which empowers the  Boardto  sanction  on the application of a trustee or  any  otherperson interested in the religious B trust the conversion ofany  property  of such trust into another property,  if	 theBoard  is satisfied that such conversion is  beneficial	 forthe  said trust.  We have pointed out that these powers	 andduties are really for the fulfillment of the trust and	theydo  not	 in any way contravene the rights of  the  trustees.Section 29 states :-"  29(1).   Where the supervision of a	religious  trust  isvested	in  any committee or association  appointed  by	 thefounder or by a competent Court or authority, such committeeor association shall continue to function under the  generalsuperintendence and control of the Board, unless  supersededby the Board under subsection (2).(2)  The  Board may supersede any committee  or	 associationreferred  to in sub-section (1) which in the opinion of	 theBoard, is not discharging its funetions satisfactorily	and,if  the	 Board does so, any decree or order of	a  Court  orauthority  by  which  such  committee  or  association	 wasconstituted   shall   be  deemed  to  have   been   modifiedaccordingly:Provided  that	before	making any  order  under  this	sub-section,  the  Board shall communicate to the  committee  orassociation  concerned the grounds on which they propose  tosupersede  it, fix a reasonable period for the committee  orassociation to show cause against the proposal and  considerits explanations and objections, if any.(3)  Such  committee  or  association or  any  other  personinterested in the religious trust may, within thirty days ofany  order  of	the Board under	 sub-section  (2),  make  anapplication to the District Judge for varying, modifying  orsetting	 aside such order, but, subject to the	decision  ofthe District Judge on any such application, the order of theBoard  shall  be final and binding upon	 the  applicant	 andevery person interested in such trust.640(4)  Where such committee or association has been supersededunder sub-section (2), the Board may  make such arrangementsas may be necessary for the administration of the  religioustrust  concerned."  It has been argued that s. 29  in  termsgives  the  Bihar State Board of Religious Trusts  power  tointerfere with a committee appointed by the founder or by  acompetent  court  or authority.	 The argument  is  that	 theBihar State Board of Religious Trusts can now interfere withthe  committee	appointed  under  the  scheme  made  by	 theDistrict Judge of Burdwan and approved by the Calcutta	HighCourt,	and  can  even supersede it.   The  answer  to	thisargument  is the same as that given before.  Either the	 Actis bad on the ground of extra-territorial operation or it isnot.   If the Act is bad on the ground of  extra-territorialoperation,  then there is good reason for cutting  down	 thescope  and ambit of s. 29 of the Act so that it	 will  applyonly  to  committees  appointed	 by  a	competent  court  orauthority in Bihar.  If, however,' in respect of a religioustrust  in Bihar, the Bihar Legislature can amend  the  CivilProcedure  Code and take the trust out of the purview of  s.92,  Civil Procedure Code, then there is no good reason	 whythe  ambit  of	s.  29 should be  out  down  in	 the  mannersuggested by the High Court.It  is	true that the legislation of a	State  is  primarilyterritorial  and the general rule is that extra	 territoriumjus  dicenti  impune  non paretur.  There  is,	however,  nodeparture from that general rule when the trust itself is inBihar  and in legislating about that trust, the	 legislaturelays  down what should be done to fulfil the objects of	 thetrust	and  for  that	purpose	 puts  an  end	to  an	 oldjurisdiction in the sense explained above and creates a	 newone  in its place.  The doctrine of territorial nexus  whicharises in this connection has been commented on before us atgreat  length by,-learned counsel for the respondent.	Thatdoctrine *and the decisions bearing on it we have consideredat  some  length in our decision relating to  the  CharusilaTrust,	Civil  Appeal No. 230 of 1955.	We do  not  wish  torepeat what we have said therein.641The conclusion at which we have arrived is that the Act	 andits several provisions do not suffer from the vice of extra-territoriality	in the sense suggested by B learned  counselfor  the  respondent  and  there  is  no  such	conflict  ofjurisdiction  as  learned  counsel for	the  respondent	 hassuggested.  Accordingly, the Act is good and applies to	 theBaidyanath temple and the properties a pertaining thereto.The  result, therefore, is that the appeal succeeds  and  isallowed	 with  costs.  The judgment and order  of  the	HighCourt dated October 9, 1953, are set aside and the  petitionunder  Art. 226 of the Constitution made by  the  respondentmust stand dismissed with costs.Appeal allowed.