PETITIONER:CHHADAMI LAL JAIN AND OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH ANDANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:14/09/1959BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.IMAM, SYED JAFFERKAPUR, J.L.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1960 AIR   41		  1960 SCR  (1) 736ACT:Criminal   Trial-Commitment   Order-Quashing   of-Magistratestarting  trial	 as  in	 warrant  case-Prosecution   witnessexamined  and  cross-examined-Charge framed  without  givingopportunity  to	 accused  to  adduce  defence  evidence	 andcommitment   order  passed--No	intimation  to	accused	  ofintention   to	commit-Whether	commitment  order   illegal-Prejudice--Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (V of 1898), ss.208, 347 and 537.HEADNOTE:A  complaint was filed against seven persons under SS.	409,465,  467,  471 and 477A of the Indian	Penal  Code.   Afterexamining  the	complainant  summonses were  issued  to	 theaccused to answer a charge under s. 406.  'The trial startedas  in a warrant case; prosecution witnesses  were  examinedand  cross-examined and the statements of the  accused	wererecorded, and the Magistrate heard arguments on the questionof framing charges.  Thereafter, he framed charges under SS.409  and 465 read with SS. 471 and 477A, and without  givingprevious  intimation  of his intention to do so,  passed  anorder  committing the appellants to the Court  of  Sessions.The  appellants, contended that the commitment	was  illegalbecause	 the  case  having begun as a warrant  case  it	 wasincumbent upon the Magistrate, when he decided to commit thecase  to  the  Court of Session,  to  follow  the  procedureprovided  in Ch.  XVIII Code of Criminal Procedure,  but  hefailed to comply with the provisions of SS. 208 to 213 of.737that Chapter.  The complainant urged that even if the provi-sions  of  SS.	208 to 213 had not  been  complied  with  noprejudice  was caused to the appellants and  the  commitmentcould not be( quashed.Held,	that  the  commitment  order  was  illegal  as	 theMagistrate  had failed to comply with the provisions  of  s.208  of	 the Code of Criminal  Procedure.   The	 proceedingshaving	begun as in a warrant case, if the Magistrate, at  asubsequent  stage, was of the view that the case  should  becommitted  to the Court of Sessions, he had to act under  s.347(1)	of the Code and to follow the  procedure  prescribedfor  inquiries under Ch.  XVIII of the Code.  When,  in	 thepresent case, the Magistrate decided to commit the case,  heshould	have  refrained from framing the charge	 and  shouldhave  informed	the accused of his intention to	 commit	 andshould	have  called  upon the accused	to  produce  defenceevidence, if any.  The failure of the Magistrate to intimatehis  decision to commit to the accused deprived them of	 theright  to  produce defence evidence, if any, under  S.	208.The  denial  of this right was itself  sufficient  to  causeprejudice to the accused and failure of justice inasmuch  asthe accused were prevented from leading evidence which mighthave induced the Magistrate not to frame the charge  againstthem.Subramania  Iyer  v. King-Emperor, (1901) L.R. 28  I.A.	 257Pulukuri  Kotayya v. King-Emperor, (1948) L.R. 74  I.A.	 65,and'  Narain  Rao  v. The State of  Andhra  Pradesh,  [1958]S.C.R, 283, referred to.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 143  of1957.Appeal from the judgment and order dated the 8th May,  1957,of  the Allahabad High Court, in Criminal Reference No.	 149of  1956,  arising out of the judgment and order  dated	 the14th January, 1956, of the First Additional Sessions  Judge,Agra,  in Sessions Trial No. 141 of 1954 and Criminal  Misc.No. 1 of 1956.G.   S. Pathak and Mohan Behari Lal, for the appellants.G.   C.	 Mathur,  C.  P.  Lal and G.  N.  Dikshit,  for	 therespondent No. 1.Janardan Sharma, for respondent No. 2.1959.	September  14.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byWANCHOO	 J.-This is an appeal oil a certificate	 granted  bythe Allahabad High Court in a criminal matter.	The facts ofthe case may be set out in some738detail	to  bring out the point raised in  this	 appeal.   Acomplaint was filed by Rajendra Kumar Jain against the	fourappellants and three others under ss. 409, 465, 467, 471 and477A  of  the Indian Penal Code.  It is	 not  necessary	 forpresent	 purposes to set out the details of  the  complaint.Suffice	  it  to  say  that  after  the	 statement  of	 thecomplainant  under s. 200 of the Code of Criminal  Procedurehereinafter  referred to as the Code) summonses were  issuedto  the	 accused persons requiring them to answer  a  chargeunder s. 406 of the Penal Code.	 Prosecution witnesses	werethen  examined and cross-examined and the statements of	 theaccused	 persons recorded.  The Magistrate then heard  argu-ments  on  the	question of framing of	charges	 which	wereconcluded  on September 23, 1954.  It was then ordered	thatthe case should be put up on September 30, 1954, for orders.On that date the Magistrate framed charges against the	fourappellants  under ss. 409 and 465 read with s. 471 and	477Aof the Penal Code.  On the same date the Magistrate  orderedcommitment of the four appellants to the Court of Session onthese charges.	The remaining three accused were discharged.There  was then a revision petition by Rajendra	 Kumar	Jainagainst	 the discharge of one of the three accused,  namely,Bhajan	Lal.   When  the matter came  up  before  the  FirstAdditional Sessions Judge Agra, he ordered suo motu on April9, 1955, after a perusal of the commitment order that BhajanLal be committed to the Court of Session to stand his trial.In view of this order he dismissed the revision petition  asinfructuous.   Thereupon Bhajan Lal went in revision to	 theHigh Court.  That petition was heard by Roy, J., and he	 setaside  the order of commitment of Bhajan Lal and one of	 thereasons given by him for doing so was that a Magistrate	 wasnot  empowered	to  frame  a charge and	 make  an  order  ofcommitment  until  he  had taken all such  evidence  as	 theaccused	 might	produce before him.  As Bhajan Lal  had	 notbeen called upon to produce evidence in defence the order ofcommitment made by the Sessions Judge was held to be not  inaccordance with law.  This order was passed on739October	 6,  1955.  Thereupon on January 7, 1956,  the	fourappellants  filed  a revision petition before  the  SessionsJudge  praying that the order of commitment  passed  againstthem  be quashed and the main reason advanced in support  ofthis  petition	was  that the  learned	Magistrate  had	 notobserved  the mandatory provisions of law laid down  in	 ss.208  to	 213 of the Code which were essential  for  a  validcommitment.   This  petition came up before the	 same  FirstAdditional  Sessions  Judge and he made a reference  to	 theHigh Court that as the procedure followed by the  Magistratewas  irregular the order of commitment, dated September	 30,1954, was bad in law, and should be quashed.This  reference came up for bearing before  another  learnedJudge  of the High Court, namely, Chowdhry, J., and he	tookthe  view that the Magistrate had not failed to comply	withthe  provisions of s. 208 and that non-compliance  with	 theprovisions  of ss. 211 and 212 was curable under s.  537  ofthe Code.  He, therefore, rejected the reference.  There wasthen  an  application for a certificate to  appeal  to	thisCourt which was allowed, particularly, as the view taken  byChowdhry,  J., was in conflict with the view taken  by	Roy,J., already referred to.The  main contention of the appellants before us is that  asthe case began before the Magistrate as a warrant case unders.  406	 of  the  Penal Code,  it  was	incumbent  upon	 theMagistrate, when he decided, in view of the provisions of s.347  (1) of the Code, that the case should be  committed  tothe  Court of Session, to follow the procedure	provided  inCh.   XVIII  of the Code and inasmuch as he  had  failed  tocomply	with ss. 208 to 213 of the Code the  commitment	 wasbad in law and should be quashed.The first question that falls for consideration,  therefore,is  whether  the  Magistrate when he began  this  case,	 wasproceeding  in the manner provided for the trial of  warrantcases.	Section 347 (1) of the Code comes into play when  atany  stage  of	the  proceedings  in  any  trial  before   aMagistrate,  it	 appears to him that the ease  ought  to  betried by the Court of740Session;  he  has  then	 to commit  the	 accused  under	 theprovisions herein before contained.  The Sessions Judge	 whomade the reference held that the case before the  Magistrateproceeded  from	 the  beginning as if it was a	trial  of  awarrant case.  It was on that basis that the Sessions  Judgeheld that when the Magistrate made up his mind that the caseought  to be committed to the Court of Sessions in  view  ofthe  provisions of s. 347(1) of the Code it was his duty  toobserve the procedure laid down in Ch.	XVIII, particularly,under  ss.  208,  211 and 212 of the  Code.   The  order  ofreference  was	sent to the Magistrate for  explanation,  ifany,  and the Magistrate replied that he had no	 explanationto  submit.  He did not say in his explanation that  he	 wasnot proceeding as in a warrant case and that the proceedingsbefore	him throughout were proceedings in the nature of  aninquiry under Ch.  XVIII.  When, however, the matter came upbefore	the  High Court, Chowdhry, J., was of  opinion	thatthough	the  Magistrate	 was competent to try  the  case  assummonses has been issued under s. 406 1. P. C. only, it wasopen  to  him to hold an inquiry under Ch.  XVIII  from	 thevery  beginning	 in view of the provisions of s.  207  whichempower a Magistrate to follow the procedure provided in Ch.XVIII in cases exclusively triable by a Court of Session andalso in cases which are not exclusively triable by the Courtof Session but which in the opinion of the Magistrate  oughtto  be tried by such Court.  The High Court was	 further  ofthe view that the offence mentioned in the summons should bedeemed	to  have  given notice to the accused  that  it	 wasoptional with the Magistrate to hold an inquiry with a	viewto  commit  them  to the Court of Session  or  to  try	themhimself as in a warrant case because column 8 of Schedule 11of  the Code says that a case under s. 406 is triable  by  aCourt of Session, Presidency Magistrate or Magistrate of thefirst  or  second class.  Therefore, according to  the	HighCourt  the  matter was at large whether the  Magistrate	 wasgoing to adopt one procedure or the other despite the  issueof summonses under s. 406 of the Penal Code and that741nothing	 had  happened to induce the belief in	the  accusedthat  they  would be tried as in a warrant case.   The	HighCourt, therefore, held that the case was proceeded with fromthe  beginning as if it was an inquiry under Ch.  XVIII	 andon  that view it held that there was no non-compliance	withs. 208 of the Code.  As for non-compliance with ss. 211	 and213,  the  High Court was of the view that  it	was  curableunder s. 537 of the Code as no prejudice was caused.We must say with respect that this view of the nature of theproceedings  before  the Magistrate is not correct.   It  istrue that it is open to a Magistrate to hold an inquiry fromthe beginning under Chapter XVIII in a case not	 exclusivelytriable by the Court of Session.  But the mere fact that theMagistrate  has such power does not necessarily indicate  tothe  accused that he is holding an inquiry under Ch.   XVIIIrather	than a trial before himself.  Where the case is	 notexclusively  triable  by the Court of Session,	the  accusedwould  naturally  conclude that the proceedings	 before	 theMagistrate are in nature of a trial and not an inquiry underCh.   XVIII.   If the Magistrate intends to use	 his  powersunder  s.  207 and hold an inquiry from the beginning  in  acase  not exclusively triable by the Court of  Session,	 theonly  way in which the accused 'Can know that he is  holdingan  inquiry and not a trial is by the  Magistrate  informingthe  accused that he is holding an inquiry under Ch.   XVIIIand  not  trial.   If he fails to do  so,  the	accused	 canreasonably  conclude  that a trial is being held.   In	thiscase  undoubtedly  the Magistrate did not  indicate  to	 theaccused from the beginning that his proceedings were in	 thenature	of  an	inquiry under  Ch.   XVIII.   Therefore	 theaccused would naturally conclude that the proceedings beforehim  were in the nature of a trial of a warrant case as	 thesummonses  that they had received were under s. 406  of	 thePenal  Code  only.  The fact that in the complaint  s.	467,which  is  exclusively triable by a Court  of  Session,	 wasmentioned  is  of no consequence for the summonses.  to	 theaccused	 were  only for a trial under s. 406  of  the  PenalCode.	It  must, therefore, be held  that  the	 proceedingsbefore742the  Magistrate began as in the trial of a warrant case	 andif  the Magistrate at a subsequent stage of the	 proceedingswas  of	 the view that the case should be committed  to	 theCourt  of Session, he would have to act under s. 347 (1)  ofthe Code.  We have been at pains to refer to this aspect  ofthe matter for considerations would be different if the casewas  exclusively triable by the Court of Session  and  beganfrom  the  outset as an inquiry under Ch.  XVIII.   What  weshall say hereafter must, therefore, be taken to apply	onlyto  a  case  which began as a proceeding  in  a	 warrant  orsummons	 case and in which the Magistrate at a	later  stagetakes action under s. 347 (1).This  brings  us  to  a consideration of  the  duty  of	 theMagistrate  who takes action under s. 347 (1) of  the  Code.That section reads as follows:-"  If  in any inquiry before a Magistrate or  in  any  trialbefore a Magistrate, before signing judgment, it appears  tohim  at	 any stage of the proceedings that the case  is	 onewhich  ought  to be tried by the Court of  Session  or	HighCourt, and if he his empowered to commit for trial, he shallcommit	 the  accused  under  the  provisions	hereinbeforecontained."The first question that has to be decided is the meaning  ofthe  words " under the provisions hereinbefore contained  ".These words have been the subject of decision by a number ofHigh Courts and the High Courts are unanimous that they meanthat if the Magistrate decides at some stage of the trial tocommit	the  accused,  he  has	to  follow  the	  provisionscontained  in Ch.  XVIII.  It is not necessary to  refer  tothose  decisions for the words themselves are  quite  clear.They lay down that if the Magistrate comes to the conclusionthat  the accused ought to be committed for trial, he  shallcommit	in accordance with the provisions contained  in	 theearlier	 part of the Code, namely, in Ch.  XVIII.   This  ofcourse	does  not mean that the Magistrate must	 begin	overagain  from  the beginning.  All that he has to do  when  hedecides that the case ought to be committed is to inform theaccused	 and  see  that the provisions	of  Ch.	  XVIII	 arecomplied with so far as they have not been complied743with up to the stage at which he decides that there ought tobe a commitment.  Now the procedure under, Ch. XVIII is laiddown in ss. 208 to 213 of' the Code.  The Magistrate  beginsby  hearing the complainant, if any, and takes all  evidencethat  may  be produced in support of the prosecution  or  onbehalf of the accused or as the Magistrate may call himself.The  Magistrate is also required to issue process to  compelthe  attendance	 of  any witness or the	 production  of	 anydocument  or  other  thing if  the  complainant	 or  officerconducting  the prosecution of the accused applies  to	him.After  the  evidence  under  s.	 208  has  been	 taken	 theMagistrate  then  examines the accused for  the	 purpose  ofenabling  him  to  explain any	circumstances  appearing  inevidence  against him under s. 209.  Thereafter if he is  ofopinion that there are not sufficient grounds for committingthe  accused  for  trial, lie can discharge  him  unless  itappears	 to  him' that such person should  be  tried  beforehimself	 or  some other Magistrate in which case he  has  toproceed	 accordingly.  On the other hand, if the  Magistrateis  of opinion after taking the evidence and  examining	 theaccused that there are sufficient grounds for committing theaccused	 for  trial, he has to frame a charge under  s.	 210declaring  with	 what offence the accused is  charged.	 Thecharge is then read over and explained to the accused and  acopy thereof, if he so requires, is furnished to him free ofcost.  After the charge is framed the Magistrate calls	uponthe accused under s. 211 to furnish a list of persons orallyor in writing whom he wishes to be summoned to give evidenceon his trial.  The Magistrate may also allow the accused  tofurnish	 a further list at a later stage in his	 discretion.Section 212 gives power to the Magistrate in his  discretionto summon and examine any witness named in any list under s.211.  Then comes s. 213 which lays down that if the  accusedhas  refused to give a list as required by s. 211 or  if  hehas  given one and the witnesses, if any,  included  thereinwhom  the Magistrate desires to examine, have been  summonedand  examined under s. 212 the Magistrate may make an  ordercommitting the accused for trial by the High Court or the744Court  of Session and shall also briefly record the  reasonsfor such commitment.  On the other hand, if he is  satisfiedafter  hearing the witnesses for the defence that there	 arenot  sufficient grounds for committing the accused,  he	 maycancel the charge and discharge the accused.It  will  be  seen  from this  analysis	 of  the  provisionsrelating  to  commitment that s. 208 gives a  right  to	 theaccused to produce evidence in defence before the Magistrateexamines  him  under s. 209 and proceeds to frame  a  chargeunder  s. 210.	Now when a Magistrate makes up his  mind  tocommit	a  case	 not exclusively triable  by  the  Court  ofSession	 under -the power given to him under s. 347  (1)  ofthe  Code, he has to follow this procedure.  But as we	havesaid earlier it is not necessary that the Magistrate  shouldbegin from the beginning again when he so makes up his mind.The  Magistrate	 may make up his mind at any  stage  of	 thetrial  before him and generally speaking four  contingenciesmay arise.  Firstly, he may make up his mind after the trialis  practically over and the witnesses for  the	 prosecutionhave  been examined and crossexamined after the charge,	 theaccused has be-en examined both under ss. 253 and 342 of theCode  and and all the defence evidence has been	 taken.	  Insuch  a 'case ss. 208, 209 and 210 have been  complied	withand all that the Magistrate has to do is to intimate to	 theaccused that he intends to commit him for trial and ask	 himto  give  the  list of witnesses under s.  211	and  proceedthereafter   as	 provided  in  Ch.   XVIII.  Secondly,	 theMagistrate may make up his mind after all the witnesses	 forthe  prosecution have been examined and	 cross-examined	 andthe  charge has been framed but no defence has	been  taken.In such a case that part of s. 208 which lays down that	 allthe  evidence for the prosecution shall be taken,  has	beencomplied with and the Magistrate may then proceed to  complywith  the rest of section 208 and take the defence  evidenceand then proceed further under ss. 209 to 213 and amend	 thecharge	so  as	to make it conformable to  a  charge  in  aninquiry	 under	Ch.   XVIII  or	 cancel	 it.   Thirdly,	 theMagistrate may make up his mind after745some  of  the prosecution witnesses have been  examined	 andcross-examined and a charge has been framed.  In such a casehe  has	 to examine the rest of	 the  prosecution  witnessesunder s. 208 and take the defence evidence, if any, producedby  the	 accused  and  then proceed under  ss.	209  to	 213amending   or  cancelling  the	charge	already	 framed	  asindicated  earlier.   Lastly, the Magistrate may  have	onlyjust  begun taking evidence for the prosecution and may	 nothave  framed a charge.	In such a case he takes the rest  ofthe  prosecution evidence and complies with  the  provisionsfrom   ss.  208	 to  213.   But	 in  each  of	these	fourcontingencies  it is the duty of the Magistrate to  intimateto  the	 accused that he has made up his mind to  commit  inview of the provisions of s. 347(1) and then proceed in	 themanner	indicated  above. It is necessary that	the  accusedshould know when the Magistrate makes up his mind  to commitso that their right under s. 208 to produce defence, if any,before commitment is made is safeguarded.Now what happened in this case was this.  The Magistrate hadapparently  taken  all	the  prosecution  evidence  and	 theprosecution witnesses had been examined and  cross-examined;the  Magistrate	 had framed no charges	upto  September	 30,1954.	He had heard arguments on the question	whether	 anycharges	 should be framed and had fixed	 September  30,1954,for orders in this respect.  When, therefore, he decided  onSeptember  30,1954, that the case ought to be  committed  tothe  Court  of	Session, the proper course for	him  was  torefrain from framing any charges and intimate to the accusedthat  he intended to commit them for trial.  He then  shouldhave  called upon them to produce defence evidence, if	any,under  s. 208 and then proceeded further under	Ch.   XVIII.The  Magistrate, however, failed to inform the accused	that-he had made up his mind to proceed under s. 347 (1) and  tocommit	them for trial.	 What he did on September 30,  1954,was   to  frame	 charges  forthwith  and  record  an   ordercommitting the accused to the Court of Session under s.	 213of  the-Code.  He thus deprived them of their right to	leaddefence evidence, if any, under s. 208. It may be that if hehad told them that he was746going to proceed under s. 347 (1) and commit them for  trialand  asked  them  if there was any defence  evidence  to  beproduced,  they	 might have said that they did not  wish  toproduce	 any defence before him at that stage. But what	 theaccused	 would have said if the Magistrate had proceeded  inthis  manner  is  irrelevant  in  considering  the  questionwhether the commitment in this case was bad in law  inasmuchas  it	did  not comply with s. 208 so	far  as	 giving	 theaccused an opportunity to lead defence evidence, if any, wasconcerned.   The fact remains, therefore, that in this	casethe  Magistrate when he decided to act under s. 347 (1)	 didnot  intimate  that decision to the  accused  and  proceededforthwith  to  commit  them for trial  under  s.  213,	thusdepriving them of the right to produce defence evidence,  ifany, under s. 208.The  next  question  which falls for  consideration  is	 theeffect	of this non-compliance with s. 208 of the  Code	 andwhether it is curable under s. 537 of the Code.	 The  effectof  Don-compliance with various provisions of the  Code	 andwhether	 such  non-compliance is curable under s.  537	have-been the subject of a large number of cases before  variousHigh Courts and also before their Lordships of the  JudicialCommittee  of  the Privy Council.  It is  not  necessary  torefer  to this mass of authorities.  One of the earliest  ofthese  case decided by the Privy Council is Subramania	Iyerv.  King-Emperor  (1), while one of the latest	is  PulukuriKotayya v. King-Emperor(2).  The law was summed up by  theirLordships  of the Judicial Committee in	 Pulukuri  Kotayya'scase (2 ) at p. 75 in these words:When  a	 trial is conducted in a maner different  from	thatprescribed  by the Code (as in N.A. Subramania	Iyer's	case(1),  the  trial  is  bad, and	no  question  of  curing  anirregularity   arises;	but  if	 the  trial   is   conductedsubstantially in the manner prescribed by the Code, but someirregularity  occurs  in the " course of such  conduct,	 theirregularity can be cured under s. 537, and none the less sobecause the irregularity involves' as must nearly always  bethe case, a breach of one or more of the very  comprehensiveprovisions of the code.	 The distinction(1) (1901) L.R. 28 I.A. 257.(2) (1948) L.R. 74 I.A. 65.747drawn  in many of the cases in India between  an  illegalityand  an irregularity is one of degree rather than  of  kind.This view finds support in the decision of their  Lordships'Board  in Abdul Rehman v. The King-Emperor(1) where  failureto comply with ss. 360 of the Code of Criminal Procedure washeld to be cured by s. 535 and 537."These  observations were quoted with approval by this  Courtin Narain Rao v. The State of Andhra Pradesh(2).  It  seems,therefore, fruitless to consider whether the  non-compliancewith  s. 208 in this case is an illegality which  cannot  becured  under  s.  537 or an irregularity  which	 is  curablethereunder.   As the stage of trial has not been reached  inthis  case,  no question arises of considering	whether	 thetrial  has  been conducted in a manner different  from	thatprescribed by the Code.	 What we have to see is whether	 thebreach	of  s. 208 which has occurred in this case  is	suchthat the Court will presume prejudice to the accused by	 themere  fact of the breach.  If such presumption can be  made,the  breach would obviously be not curable under s.  537  ofthe  Code,  even assuming that that  section  applies.	 Thequestion, therefore which eventually emerges is whether thisbreach of s. 208 is of such a character that the Court	willpresume that there has been prejudice to the accused by	 themere fact of the breach.  Now the accused has a right  unders.  208 to produce evidence in defence, if any,	 before	 theMagistrate  proceeds  to decide whether a charge  should  beframed or not.	The Magistrate's decision whether the chargeshould	be framed or not is bound to be affected one way  orthe  other if evidence is produced by the accused,  for	 theMagistrate  'Would then be bound to consider the  effect  ofthat evidence on the question of framing the charge.  If theaccused	 is denied the opportunity of leading that  evidencewhich he has a right to do under s. 208, it seems to us thatthe denial of such right is sufficient to cause prejudice tothe  accused and s. 537 would have no application to a	caseof this kind.  The possibility that the accused may not haveproduced defence if asked by the Magistrate whether he woulddo so,(1) (1926) L.R. 54 I.A. 96,(2) [1958] S.C.R. 283.748is  of	no  consequence,  so  far  as  this  conclusion	  isconcerned.   If this is the reply expected, it makes it	 allthe  more incumbent on the Magistrate to inform the  accusedthat  he was intending to commit the case and ask him if  hewished to produce evidence.  If the accused did not want  todo  so, the Magistrate would have done his duty and his	 waywould  be  clear to proceed further with  his  intention  tocommit	the  accused.	But  when  the	Magistrate  did	 notintimate  to  the  appellants  in  this	 case  that  he	 wasintending  to commit them for trial and proceeded  to  framecharges	 and  pass  the order  of  commitment  forthwith  onSeptember 30, he was denying to them their right to  producedefence under s. 208 of the Code.  The denial of that  rightis in our opinion in itself sufficient to cause prejudice tothe  accused and failure of justice inasmuch as the  accusedwere  prevented	 from  leading	evidence  which	 might	haveinduced the Magistrate not to frame a charge against them orcancel it.  We are, therefore, of opinion that the breach ofs.  208 which took place in this case was such as was  boundto  cause a failure of justice and there is,  therefore,  noquestion   of	the   application  of  s.   537	  in   thesecircumstances.	The commitment is, therefore, bad in law andmust be quashed on this ground alone.In the petition of appeal the appellants have referred	alsoto breach of provisions of ss. 211, 212 and 213 of the Code.As we have come to the conclusion that the breach 'of s. 208in  this case is sufficient to invalidate the commitment  itis  not	 necessary  to consider the effect  of	the  furtherbreach	of ss. 211, 212 and 213.  What we have said in	thiscase  wit respect to the effect of the breach of s. 208	 maynot  be taken as applying to the breach of ss. 211, 212	 and213 for the considerations arising out of those breaches maybe different.We,  therefore,	 allow	the  appeal,  quash  the  order	  ofcommitment  as well as the charges framed and send the	caseback  to the Magistrate to proceed in the  manner  indicatedabove according to law.Appeal allowed.749