PETITIONER:THE STATE OF MADRAS AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:M/s.  M. A. NOOR MOHAMMED AND CO.DATE OF JUDGMENT:12/08/1960BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1960 AIR 1254 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1967 SC1537	 (4)ACT:Sales Tax--Sale of hides and skins--Exemption from  multipletaxation--Unlicensed dealers--Whether can claim single Pointtaxation--Validity   of	  rules	  Providing   for   multipletaxation--Madras General Sales Tax (Turnover and Assessment)Rules,	1939, r. 16(5) --Madras General Sales Tax Act,	1939(9 of 1939), ss. 3, 5(vi), 6A.HEADNOTE:The respondent, a firm carrying on tannery business, used totake out licences under the provisions of the Madras GeneralSales  Tax Act, 1939, but did not renew the licence for	 theassessment year, 952-1953, and was assessed to sales tax  onthe  sale value of tanned hides and skins during  the  year.It  challenged	the validity of the order of  assessment  byfiling	a petition before the High Court under Art.  226  ofthe  Constitution  of India, on the grounds  that  under  s.5(vi)  of the Act the liability to pay sales tax in  respectof hides and skins could only be at a single point, that  r.16(5)  of  the	Madras	General	 Sales	Tax  (Turnover	 andAssessment) Rules, 1939, which limited the operation of thismode  of taxation to licensed dealers was ultra vires as  itcontravened  S.	 5(vi) and had been so held in	V.  M.	SyedMohammed  & Co. v. The State of Madras, [1954] S.C.R.  1117,and  that s. 6A was not applicable to the case of  a  dealerwhich did not take out a licence.Held,  that s. 3 of the Madras General Sales Tax Act,  1939,envisages  multipoint  taxation on the total turnover  of  adealer,149but  under  S. 5 an exception is made in the  case  of	saletransactions  of  certain  specified  goods,  providing	 forsingle	point taxation subject to certain  restrictions	 andconditions  which include conditions as to licences, and  ifthe conditions and restrictions are not complied with, unders.  6A	the  tax  is  to be levied under  s.  3	 as  if	 theprovisions  of	s. 5 did not apply to  such  sales.   Accor-dingly, r. 16 (5) of the Madras General Sales Tax  (Turnoverand Assessment) Rules, 1939, is not ultra vires.Syed  Mohamed & Company v. State of Andhra, [1956] 7  S.T.C.465 and State of Mysore v. Sarvatula & Co., [1957] 9  S.T.C.593, approved.V.   M.	 Syed  Mohammed & Company v. The  State	 of  Madras,[1957] S.C.R. 1117, explained.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 38 of 1959.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedApril 2, 1956, of the Madras High Court in Writ Petition No.313 of 1954.R.   Ganapathy Iyer and T. M. Sen, for the appellants.C.   K.	   Daphtary,   Solicitor-General   of	India	 andS.Venkatakrishnan, for the respondents.A.   V.	  Viswanatha  Sastri  and  S.  Venkatakrishnan	 forIntervener No. 1 (Ambur Tanners Association).R.   Gopalakrishnan, for Interveners Nos. 2 and 3(R.  Chennappa and P. Abdul Wahab).1960.	August 12.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyKAPUR  J.-This	is an appeal by special	 leave	against	 thejudgment  and order of the High Court of Madras	 allowing  apetition  under	 Article  226  of  the	Constitution.	 Thequestion there raised was the legality of the assessment  ofSales  Tax by appellant No. 2, the Deputy  Commercial  SalesTax  Officer, Saidapet, under the Madras General  Sales	 TaxAct, 1939 (Act IX of 1939), hereinafter termed the Act.The  respondent was a partnership firm carrying	 on  tannerybusiness  at Chromepet near the city of Madras.	 Before	 theyear  of  assessment,  i. e., 1952-53,	it  was	 taking	 outlicences under the relevant provisions of150the Act but it did not renew the licence for the  assessmentyear.	When called upon to make a return it did not  do  sonor did it raise any objection to the notice served on it onFebruary  28,  1954.  It was assessed to sales	tax  of	 Rs.10,584	on  a  turnover of Rs.	6,77,374-4-4.	It  filed  apetition under Art. 226 to quash the assessment order on theground	that the order was illegal and not supported by	 theauthority of law.  This contention was accepted by the	HighCourt  and  the	 petition  was	allowed	 with  costs.	 Theconsequence  of	 the judgment is that  the  respondent	firmwhich  is not a licensed dealer under the Act is not  liableto  any	 sales tax in respect of its dealings in  hides	 andskins.	Against this judgment and order the appellants	havecome to this court by special leave.The contention of the respondent firm in the High Court	 wasthat  under s. 5, cl. (vi) of the Act, the liability to	 paysales  tax in respect of hides and skins could only be at  asingle	point; that the rule limiting the operation of	thismode  of  taxation to licensed dealers was ultra  vires	 andtherefore r. 16(5) of the Madras General Sales Tax (Turnoverand Assessment) Rules, 1939, hereinafter called the Turnoverand Assessment Rules, was void and inoperative and had been.so held by the Supreme Court in V. M. Syed Mohammed & Co. v.The State of Madras(1) ; that accepting this  interpretationthe  State of Madras had deleted cl. (5) of r. 16 by  G.  0.450, Revenue, dated February 26, 1954, i.e., two days beforethe  making of the assessment order under dispute;  that  r.16(5)  of  the Turnover and Assessment Rules  was  the	onlyprovision  imposing  a multiple tax in respect of  sales  ofhides	and  skins  by	unlicensed  dealers  and  that	 theimposition  of the sales tax after the repeal of  that	rulewas  illegal and the tax was without the authority  of	law.It was also contended that in the taxation scheme under	 theAct,  hides  and skins, because of their importance  in	 theinternational	market,	 were  excluded	 from	the   directoperation  of  s.  3(1) of the Act  which  was	the  generalcharging  section and were given special protection  of	 thesingle point taxation under s. 5(vi).  The(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 1117.151argument, therefore, was that in the case of sales of  hidesand  skins  the	 general provision was	inapplicable  and  aspecial rule for taxation was laid down by s.	  5(vi)	  ofthe Act.The High Court held that in the case of hides and it   skins"  the charge levied by s. 3 is subject to the pro.  visionsof  S.	5 and in the case of licensed dealers in  hides	 andskins,	the charging provision is r. 16 of the Turnover	 andAssessment Rules ".The  High Court further held that r. 16(5) of  the  Turnoverand Assessment Rules which restricted the benefit of  singlepoint  taxation	 to licensed dealers was ultra vires  as  itcontravened  s.	 5(vi)	of  the	 Act  and  s.  6-A  was	 notapplicable  to the case of a dealer who did not take  out  alicence	 for dealing in hides and skins and further that  ifr.  16(5)  was ultra vires as being in contravention  of  s.5(vi),	r.  5,	of  the	 Madras	 General  Sales	 Tax   Rules(hereinafter called the Sales Tax Rules) which requires	 thetaking	out  of the licence in order to be able to  get	 thebenefit of single point taxation would also be ultra  vires.Thus  on a true construction of s. 3(1) and s. 5(vi) it	 wasof the opinion that r. 5 of the Sales Tax Rules and r. 16(5)of the Turnover and Assessment Rules were ultra vires and s.6A  was	 inapplicable to a person who had not  taken  out  alicence.    As	a  consequence	it  quashed  the  order	  ofassessment of the respondent firm.In  order to decide this appeal it is necessary to refer  toand consider the relevant provisions of the Act and the	 twosets of Rules made thereunder.	They are as follows:-S.   3(1) " Subject to the provisions of this Act,-(a)  every dealer shall pay for each year a tax on his totalturnover for such year; and .............................................................(3)  A dealer whose total turnover in any year is less	thanten  thousand rupees shall not be liable to pay any tax	 forthat year under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2).(4)  For  the  purposes	 of  this  section  and	 the   otherprovisions  of	this Act, turnover shall  be  determined  inaccordance with such rules as may be prescribed152(5)  The  taxes	 under	sub-sections (1) and  (2)  shall  beassessed,  levied and collected in such manner and  in	suchinstalments, if any, as may be prescribed;S.   5. Subject to such restrictions and conditions as	 maybe  prescribed,	 including  conditions as  to  licences	 andlicence fees. ......................................................(vi) the sale of hides and skins, whether tanned or untannedshall be liable to tax under section 3, subsection (1), onlyat  such single point in the series of sales  by  successivedealers as may be prescribed.S.   6A. If any restrictions or conditions prescribed  undersection 5 or notified under section 6 are contravened or arenot  observed  by  a  dealer, or  in  case  a  condition  soprescribed  or	notified requires that a  licence  shall  betaken  out  or	renewed, if a licence is not  taken  out  orrenewed,  by  the dealer or if any of the  conditions  of  alicence	 taken out or renewed by him are contravened or	 arenot observed, the sales of the dealer, with effect from	 thecommencement of the year in which such contravention or non-observance took place, may be assessed to tax or taxes undersection	 3,  as	 if the provisions of section 5	 or  of	 thenotification  under section 6, as the case may be,  did	 notapply  to such sales and notwithstanding that a licence,  ifany,  taken  out  or  renewed by  the  dealer  continued  orcontinues to be in force during the year ".MADRAS GENERAL SALES TAX (TURNOVER AND	       ASSESSMENT) RULES.Rule  4(1).   " Save as provided in sub-rule (2)  the  grossturnover  of a dealer for the purposes of these rules  shallbe the amount for which goods are sold by the dealer.(2)  In	 the case of the undermentioned goods turnover of  adealer	for the purposes of these rules shall be the  amountfor which the goods are bought by the dealer. ......................................................(c)  untanned hides and skins bought by a licensed tanner inthe State, and153(d)  untanned hides and skins exported outside the State  bya licensed dealer in hides or skins.Rule  15(1).   Rules  6 to 13 shall not	 apply	to  licensedtanners	 and  other licensed dealers in hides  or  skins  inrespect	 of  their  dealings  in hides	or  skins;  but	 theprovisions  of	this and the following rule shall  apply  tothem in respect of such dealings.Rule 16(1).  In the case of hides and skins, the tax payableunder  section 3(1) shall be levied in accordance  with	 theprovisions of this rule.(2)  No tax shall be levied on the sale of untanned hides orskins  by a licensed dealer in hides or skins except at	 thestage  at which such hides or skins are sold to a tanner  inthe State or are sold for export outside the State ;(i)  in	 the case of all untanned hides or skins sold  to  atanner in the State, the tax shall be levied from the tanneron  the	 amount for which the hides or skins are  bought  byhim;(ii) In	 the case of all untanned hides or skins  which	 arenot  sold to a tanner in the State but are exported  outsidethe  State, the tax shall be levied from the dealer who	 wasthe last dealer not exempt from taxation under section 3(3),who buys them in the State on the amount for which they werebought by him. .....................................................(5)  Sale of hides or skins by dealers other  than  licenseddealers	 in hides  or skins shall,subject to the  provisionsof  section  3, be liable to taxation on each	occasion  ofsale."Rule 5(1) of the  ax Rules provides :-"Every person who .......................................(d)  deals  in hides and/or skins whether as  a	 tanner,  orotherwise, or ........................................................shall,	if  he	desires to avail himself  of  the  exemptionprovided in sections 5 and 8 or of the concession of  singlepoint taxation provided in section 6, submit an20154application  in Form 1 for a licence in respect of  each  ofhis  places of business to the authority specified  in	sub-rule  (2) so as to reach him not later than the 15th day  ofOctober, 1939 ".The scheme of taxation under the Act is this.  Section 3  isthe  general charging section under which tax is  levied  inthe  manner prescribed in the turnover of a  dealer,  exceptthat  a dealer whose turnover is less than Rs.	10,000/-  isexempted  from	sales tax.  Section 3  envisages  multipointtaxation on the total turnover of a dealer.  In the case  ofthe sale transactions of certain specified goods set out  ins. 5 of the Act an exception is made.  That section providesfor  single  point taxation subject  to	 certain  prescribedrestrictions and conditions.  By sub-s. (vi) of that sectionsales of hides and skins are liable to tax under s.3, sub-s.(1),  at  one  single  point  in  the  series  of  sales  bysuccessive dealers.  The language of the section (s.5) showshowever	 that  this  exemption applies	subject	 to  certainrestrictions  and conditions which include conditions as  tolicences.   The rule, which deals with licences is r.  5  ofthe  Sales  Tax	 Rules, the relevant portion  of  which	 hasalready	 been set out It lays down that if a dealer  desiresto avail himself of the exemption provided in ss. 5 and 8 orof  the concession as to taxation in s. 5 only at  a  singlepoint,	then he must obtain a licence as prescribed in	thatrule.  If the restrictions and conditions contemplated by s.5  read	 with  the  rules are  not  complied  with,  certainconsequences  follow as a result of s. 6-A of the Act  whichspecifically  states  that where a condition  prescribed  ornotified  requires  the	 taking	 out or	 the  renewal  of  alicence,   then	 in  the  case	of  contravention  of	suchconditions or restrictions the tax is to be levied under  s.3 as if the provisions of s. 5 did not apply to such  sales.This, therefore, is a clear provision which makes the singlepoint  imposition  of  sales tax on hides and  skins  to  beconditional on observing the condition of taking a licence.The  argument  of  inconsistency between  r.  16(5)  of	 theTurnover and Assessment Rules and s. 5(vi) of the Act  whichwas accepted in the High Court receives155no  support  from the language of that section	which  is  aconcessional  provision	 for making the sales of  hides	 andskins liable to taxation at a single point; but that, as theopening	  words	  of  the  section  show,  is	subject	  torestrictions and conditions prescribed in the rules and	 oneof these conditions is the taking of a licence.	 All that r.16(5)  does  is	 to  emphasise	the  consequences  of	non-observance  of the conditions which ss. 5(vi) & 6-A have  inclear  terms prescribed.  We find no  inconsistency  betweenthe rule and the sections of the Act.  But it was  submittedthat this Court on appeal from a judgment of the Madras HighCourt  had  sId r. 16(5) to be ultra vires  the	 Act.	Thatcontention is based on the judgment of the Madras High Courtin V. M. Syed Mohammed & Company v. The State of Madras	 (1)which  on  appeal  was affirmed by  this  Court	 (2).	Thiscontention  is not well-founded.  In that case, when it	 wasin  the Madras High Court, it was contended that  the  rulesdid  not properly carry out the policy underlying  the	Act,which  was  to	keep  the price of  hides  and	skins  at  acompetitive level for the world market.	 It was there arguedthat  hides  and skins were articles much in demand  in	 theforeign	 markets and their export was one of the main  itemsof  the foreign trade of the State of Madras  which  enjoyedconsiderable  natural  advantage in tanning because  of	 theplentiful  supply  of " Avaram bark "  which  was  speciallysuited	for the purpose.  It was also argued  that  untannedhides  and  skins were acquired locally or  by	import	fromother States and were either tanned in the State or exportedand therefore the scheme of taxation was to levy the tax  ata single point, i.e., at the stage when articles were tannedin  the State or exported to foreign countries for  tanning.For this reason multiple taxation was violative of s.  5(vi)of  the	 Act.	This, it appears, was not  disputed  by	 theGovernment  and it was therefore held that r. 16(5)  of	 theTurnover  and  Assessment Rules was ultra  vires.   But	 thequestion was really(1)  (1952) 3 S.T.C. 367.(2)  V.	  M.  Syed  Mohammed and Company  v.  The  State  ofAndhra,[1954] S.C.R. 1117.156not relevant to the issue as was pointed out by	 VenkataramaAyyar, J., at p. 394, where he said:-" Now the contention of the petitioners is that where  thereare  sales  by unlicensed dealers to unlicensed	 tanners  orunlicensed  dealers,  there is the possibility	of  multipletaxation  and that would be in violation of  section  5(vi).It  is	not disputed on behalf of the Government  that	Rule16(5)  is repugnant to section 5(vi).  It must therefore  beheld to be ultra vires.	 But this can bring no relief to thepetitioners, as they are all licensed tanners and are in  nomanner hurt by the operation of r. 16(5).  This was concededby the learned Advocate for the petitioners ".This case was then brought in appeal to this Court and S. R.Das, J. (as he then was), observed at p.     1121:-" Lastly, the learned advocate urges that rule 16 (5)  clearlycontravenes  the  provisions of section 5(vi)  of  the	Act.This  sub-rule has been held to be ultra vires by  the	HighCourt,	and indeed, the learned Advocate General  of  Madrasdid  not in the High Court, as before us, dispute that	rule16(5)  was  repugnant  to ,section  5(vi).   That  sub-rule,however	 affects only unlicensed dealers and the  appellantswho are admittedly licensed dealers are not affected by thatsub-rule ".This judgment does not show that the repugnancy of the	rulewas in controversy or the court pronounced its opinion	uponthe merits or it was necessary to do so.The learned Solicitor-General then contended before us	thatin  their  counter-affidavit  filed in the  High  Court	 theappellants  had accepted the position that r. 16(5)  of	 theTurnover  and  Assessment Rules was ultra vires.   But	thatwill  not  carry  the  matter  any  further,  because  on  aconstruction  of the provisions of the Act this argument  ofrepugnancy is not sustainable.The  Andhra  Pradesh High Court rightly did not	 accept	 theview  that  r.	16(5) was ultra vires  of  the	rule  makingauthority:  Syed Mohamed & Company v. State of	Andhra	(1).The same view was taken by the(1)  [1956] 7 S.T.C. 465. 472.157Mysore High Court in the State of Mysore v. Sarvatula & Co.(1).A  consideration of the relevant provisions of the  Act	 andthe rules made thereunder shows that the charging section iss.  3(1)  and  the general rule is taxation  i	at  multiplepoints on the total turnover of the dealer, but in the	caseof  sale of certain specified articles a departure has	beenmade  and tax at single point is leviable  provided  certainconditions  and	 restrictions  as  to  licences	 which	 areenvisaged  in s. 5 and laid down in the rules  are  compliedwith and that r. 16(5) of the Turnover and Assessment  Rulesis not ultra vires.It was then contended that the provision as to licensing andtaxation  in the case of licensed dealers and tanners  at  asingle point and a taxation at multiple point in the case ofunlicensed  dealers  were  violative  of  Art.	14  of	 theConstitution.	But we did not allow this point to be  takenbecause	 it was not raised in the High Court and was  raisedfor  the  first	 time in this Court.   In  our	opinion	 thejudgment  of  the High Court in regard to  the	ultra  viresnature of r. 16(5) and the inapplicability of s. 6-A of	 theAct  was  erroneous  and  the  appeal  must,  therefore,  beallowed, the judgment and order of the High Court set  asideand  the  respondent's petition dismissed.   The  respondentwill  pay the costs of the appellants in this Court  and  inthe courts below.				 Appeal allowed.(1) [1957] 9 S.T.C. 593.158