PETITIONER:RAM GOPAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:ANANT PRASAD AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:21/04/1959BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.DAS, S.K.SUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  851		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 692 CITATOR INFO : R	    1963 SC  64	 (1,2,7)ACT:Appeal-Maintainability-Permit	to   run   stage   carriage-Application  for  renewal-New  applicant's  application	 forpermit-Order  by State Transport Authority  renewing  Permitbut no order passed on new applicant's application Appeal toAppellate  Tribunal against order  granting  renewal-Whetherappeal	competent-Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (4 Of 1939),	 ss.47, 57, 58, 64.HEADNOTE:The appellant who was the holder of a permit to run a  stagecarriage, which was about to expire, made an application  tothe State Transport Authority for its renewal for a  furtherperiod.	  The respondent made a representation	against	 therenewal	 of the appellant's permit and also applied for	 thegrant  of  the	permit	to  himself.   The  State  TransportAuthority  made	 an order in the terms " Renewed  for  threeyears " in respect of the appellant's permit but no  expressorder was made on the respondent's application for the grantof  the	 permit to him.	 On appeal by  the  respondent,	 theAppellate  Tribunal  cancelled the  appellant's	 permit	 andgranted	 the permit to the respondent.	The  appellant	thenmoved the judicial Commissioner, Vindhya Pradesh, for a693writ  of  certiorari  quashing the order  of  the  AppellateTribunal  on  the ground that it disclosed an error  on	 theface  of  it because under the Act no appeal  lay  from	 theorder  that  was passed by the subordinate  authority.	 Thelearned	 judicial  Commissioner	 held that  the	 appeal	 wascompetent  and dismissed the application for the  writ.	  Itwas contended for the appellant that the respondent's appealto  the	 Appellate  Tribunal was  not  maintainable  on	 thegrounds	 (1)  that  no express order was  made	against	 therespondent by the State Transport Authority, and so s. 64(a)of  the Act did not give him a right of appeal and (2)	thatin view Of ss. 47, 57 and 58 Of the Act, the State TransportAuthority  had no jurisdiction to consider  the	 respondentsapplication  or to make an order in respect of it after	 theappellant's permit was renewed, and therefore could not makean order rejecting it.	It was also contended that s. 64  ofthe Act did not provide for an appeal by a person  aggrievedby  the	 renewal  of a permit unless he	 was  one  of  thosementioned  in cl. (f) of that section which  the  respondentwas  not, and therefore even if an appeal by the  respondentwas  competent	under  s.  64(a)  in  such  an	appeal,	 theAppellate  Authority  could  not  set  aside  the  order  ofrenewal.Held:	  (1)  that  the order made by the  State  TransportAuthority  in  the  present case did amount,  infact,  to  arefusal	 to  grant  the	 permit	 to  the  respondent.	 Therespondent's appeal to the Appellate Authority was thereforemaintainable under s.	 64(a) of the Act.S.   Gopala  Reddi  v. Regional Transport  Authoyity,  NorthArcot,[1955]   2 M.L.J. 130, approved.V.   C.	  K.   Bus  Service  Ltd.  v.	Regional   TransportAuthoyity,Coimbatore, [1957] S.C.R. 663, distinguished.(2)  that s. 58(2) Of the Act shows that an application	 forthe renewal    of  a permit and a fresh application for	 thesame permit have to be	heard together, and that  there	 wasnothing in ss. 47 and 57,     indicating a contrary course.(3)  that cl. (f) of s. 64 Of the Act does not in any wayrestrict  the power of the Appellate Tribunal to  grant	 allreliefs	 in  an	 appeal	 under	cl.  (a)  of  the   section.Consequently,  the order of the Appellate  Tribunal  settingaside the order of renewal was valid.Dholpur	 Co-operative  Transport  Etc.	Union  Ltd.  v.	 TheAppellate Authority, Rajasthan, A.I.R. 1955 Rajasthan 19, inso far as it decided to the contrary, disapproved.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 284 of 1958.Appeal from the judgment and order dated April 21, 1956,  ofthe  former  Judicial Commissioner's Court, Rewa,  in  Misc.Civil Writ No. 27 of 1956.Naunit Lal, for the appellant.694Bhagwan Das Jain, for respondent No. 1.1959.  April 21.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered bySARKAR,	 J.-This appeal arises out of an application  for  awrit of certiorari and involves questions of  interpretationof  the	 Motor	Vehicles Act, 1939 (4 of  1939),  by.  whichgrants	of  permits to run stage carriages and	all  mattersconnected therewith are governed.The  appellant	was the holder of a permit to  run  a  stagecarriage on a stretch of the public highway called the Rewa-Singrauli  route, in the State of Vindhya Pradesh  which  isnow merged in the State of Madhya Pradesh.  That permit	 wasdue to expire on December 11, 1955, and so on September	 12,1955,  he made an application for its renewal for a  furtherperiod.	 The respondent Anant Prasad who will be referred toas the respondent, made a representation against the renewalof the appellant's permit.  He also applied for the grant ofthe  permit  to	 himself.  On December 9,  1955,  the  StateTransport  Authority, Vindhya Pradesh, made an order in	 thefollowing  terms: " Renewed for three years ". It is not  indispute that the order meant that the appellant's permit wasrenewed	 for three years.  No express order was made on	 therespondent's application for the grant of the permit to him.The respondent preferred an appeal against this order to theVindhya Pradesh Transport Appellate Tribunal, the  appellateauthority under the Act.  It was contended by the  appellantbefore	the  Appellate	Tribunal that  the  appeal  was	 notcompetent.  The Appellate Tribunal rejected this  contentionand  passed  an order cancelling the Permit granted  to	 theappellant  by the State Transport Authority and issuing	 thepermit to the respondent.The appellant then moved the Judicial Commissioner,  VindhyaPradesh, for a writ of certiorari quashing the order of	 theAppellate Tribunal on the ground that it disclosed an  erroron  the face of it because under the Act no appeal lay	fromthe order that was passed by the subordinate authority.	 Thelearned Judicial Commissioner held that the appeal695was  competent and dismissed the application for  the  writ.Hence the present appeal.The question is, Did an appeal lie to the Appellate Tribunalfrom the order made by the State Transport Authority in	 thepresent case ? Section 64 of the Act contains the provisionsfor appeals.  Whether the appeal lay or not will have to  bedecided	 by reference to these provisions.  The	 portion  ofthe  section  which will have to be considered is  in  theseterms:" Section 64.  Any person-(a)  aggrieved	by  the refusal of the State or	 a  RegionalTransport Authority to grant a permit,.................or(e)  aggrieved by the refusal of renewal of a permit,....or(f)  being  a  local authority or  police  authority  or  anassociation   which,   or  a  person   providing   transportfacilities  who,  having opposed the grant of  a  permit  isaggrieved by the grant thereof .........."may...............appeal to the prescribed authorityThe prescribed authority was as we have earlier stated,	 theAppellate Tribunal.  Clearly the respondent was not a personcontemplated  by cl. (e) of the section.  It is also not  indispute	 that he was not one of those mentioned in cl.	(f).The respondent does not claim that any of these clauses gavehim the right of appeal.He  however claims a right of appeal under cl. (a).  In	 ourview  that claim is justified.	He had applied for a  permitand had not got it.  He was therefore a person aggrieved  bythe  refusal to grant a permit and clearly came	 within	 cl.(a).   It  is  true that the order of  the  State  TransportAuthority did not expressly refuse him the permit.  But thatno doubt was the effect of the order that was made.  He	 hadmade  an application for the grant of the permit to him	 andthe  application  was disposed of without granting  him	 thepermit but granting it to a competing applicant.  There	 wasonly one permit which could be granted696and the result of the order was to give it to the appellant.The   permit   was  thereby  necessarily  refused   to	 therespondent.   The  fact that an express order was  not	madecannot	operate	 to his prejudice.  In S.  Gopala  Reddi  v.Regional   Transport   Authority,  North   Arcot   (1),	  incircumstances  identical  to those in the  present  case  anorder was made by the Transport Authority in the same  termsas we have here and it was said, " The grant of a permit  toone,  would automatically mean the refusal of the permit  tothe  other  ".	We are in entire  agreement  with  the	viewexpressed  there.   Therefore  it  seems  to  us  that	 therespondent  was	 a  person who had  been  aggrieved  by	 therefusal	 to  grant him a permit and the appeal	by  him	 wasfully competent.But  it	 was  said on behalf of the appellant  that  in	 thepresent	 case it would be wrong to imply an  order  refusingthe  permit  to the respondent for none such could  be	madeunder  the  Act and therefore here there was  no  scope	 forapplying s. 64(a).  The contention was put in this way: Whenthere  are a number of applications in respect of  the	samepermit,	 one  of  which	 is  by	 way  of  renewal  to  whichobjections   have   been  filed	 and   the   others,   freshapplications,	the  latter  could  not	 be  taken  up	 forconsideration till the former and the objections made to  ithad  been  considered.	 If the objections  to	the  renewalfailed,	 the application for renewal had to be	granted	 andthe  fresh  applications  for  permit  could  not  then	  beconsidered at all.  If on the other hand, the objections  tothe renewal succeeded, the renewal could not be granted	 andthe  choice had then to be made from the new applicants	 forthe  permit.   In  the present case  the  objection  to	 therenewal	 of the applicant's permit raised by the  respondentfailed	and  the  appellant's  permit  was  in	 consequencerenewed.   Therefore  the  respondent's	 application  for  apermit,	 which	was an application for a new  permit,  neverfell  to  be considered and that is why no order on  it	 wasmade at all.We think this contention completely lacks substance.  It wassaid that was the result of ss. 47,(1)  [1955] 2 M.L.J. 13o.69757  and 58 of the Act but we find nothing in any of them  tosupport	 it.   Section 47 does not deal with  the  order  inwhich applications for the renewal or grant on a new  permitare  to	 be heard and does not help at all  Section  57	 (3)provides  that	after an application for a permit  had	beenmade others can make representations against it.  These	 arethe objections to an application for the grant or renewal ofa  permit  earlier  referred to. Sub-section (5)  of  s.  57provides that the application for a permit which includes anapplication   for   the	 renewal  of  a	  permit   and	 therepresentations against it shall be disposed of at a  publichearing	 at which the person making the application and	 thepersons	 making	 the  representations  shall  be  given	  anopportunity of being heard.  But this does not show that allother applications for the same permit and all other  repre-sentations in connection therewith, cannot be disposed of atthe  same hearing.  Indeed, s. 58 (2) puts it  beyond  doubtthat  an application for renewal of a permit and  the  freshapplications for the same permit have to be heard  together.That section so far as is relevant is in these terms:Section 58(2)  A	permit	may be renewed on an  application  made	 anddisposed of as if it were an application for a permit:(a).......................................................(b).......................................................Provided  further  that, other conditions  being  equal,  anapplication  for renewal shall be given preference over	 newapplications for permits ".The  section  therefore	 requires  an  application  for	 therenewal	 of a permit to be dealt with in the same way  as  anew  application  for  a permit.  Such	an  application	 hastherefore  to be heard along with new applications  for	 thepermit.	  Again,  no question of giving an  application	 forrenewal	 preference over new applications for permits  whichthe section requires to be given, can arise unless they	 areconsidered  together.  We are therefore unable to hold	thatin the present case the 88698State  Transport Authority had no jurisdiction	to  considerthe respondent's application or to make any order in respectof it as it granted the appellant's application for renewal.It follows that the order that was made amounted in fact  toa refusal to grant the permit to the respondent.It was then said that a renewed permit was a continuation ofthe old permit and hence once the old permit was renewed, noquestion  of  considering the applications  for	 new  permitarose.	 We find nothing to support this view.	It  is	truethat  in  V. C. K. Bus Service Ltd.  v.	 Regional  TransportAuthority,  Coimbatore(1),  this Court held that  a  renewedpermit	was a continuation of the old permit but it did	 nothold  that the appropriate authority could not consider	 theapplications  for a fresh permit along with the	 applicationfor  renewal of the permit.  This case does not	 assist	 theappellant at all.It  was	 then contended that s. 64 did not  provide  for  anappeal	by  a person aggrieved by the renewal  of  a  permitunless he was one of those mentioned in s. 64 (f), which therespondent  was not, and therefore even if an appeal by	 therespondent was competent under s. 64 (a), in such an  appealthe  Appellate	Tribunal could not set aside  the  order  ofrenewal made by the State Transport Authority.	It was	saidthat if in such an appeal the order granting a renewal couldbe set aside, in effect an appeal against an order  renewinga permit would become competent though the law did not	per-mit   this.   We  were	referred  to  Dholpur	Co-operativeTransport  Etc.	  Union	 Ltd. v.  The  Appellate  Authority,Rajasthan (2), in support of this contention.  It was  theresaid:"  Where  an appeal has been made under el.  (a)against	 therefusal of a permit, the Appellate Authority will  generallyhave the right to give relief to the appellant by the  grantof  a permit, but will not have any jurisdiction  to  cancelthe  permit granted to another person, unless  a  foundationhas been laid before the Regional Transport Authority for anappeal provided(1)  [1957] S.C.R. 663.(2)  A.I.R. 1955 Rajasthan 19, 26.699by  el. (f) by an objection of somebody entitled  to  appealunder that clause.  If such an objection has been made	thenit does not matter whether that particular person appeals ornot.   In  such	 a case, on an appeal under  s.	 64(a),	 theAppellate Authority may consider the objection of the naturespecified in cl. (f) before the Regional Transport Authorityand give its own decision in the matter."It  was	 said  that  the  respondent  though  he  had  filedobjections was not a person who can claim a right of  appealunder  el. (f) of s. 64.  It was therefore contended on	 theauthority  of  the observations referred to  above  that  nofoundation  had been laid for an appeal provided by cl.	 (f)and  so the Appellate Tribunal could not cancel	 the  permitgranted to the appellant by the subordinate authority.We are unable to agree that in an appeal which is  competentunder cl. (a) of the section, the order renewing or grantinga  permit cannot be set aside unless the case was such	thatan appeal under el. (f) would have also been competent.	  Soto hold would result in making the right of appeal given  bycl.  (a) wholly infructuous in those cases where  no  reliefcan be given in the appeal except by setting aside the ordergranting or renewing a permit, for example, where there	 wasonly  one permit to grant as in the present case.   Such  aninterpretation has to be rejected.  It is based on cl.	(f).But  this  clause cannot be construed in a manner so  as  torender infructuous another clause in the same section.	 Nordo  we find anything in el. (f) to justify such a  construc-tion.	The  different	clauses in  the	 section  deal	withdifferent  situations.	Each is independent of	the  others.Clause	(f)  deals with a case where an objection  had	beenfiled against the fresh grant or the renewal of a permit butthe  permit has none the less been granted or renewed.	 Theclause	gives  the objector a right of	appeal	against	 theresult of the rejection of his objection if he is one of thepersons	 mentioned in it.  The clause gives him	 that  rightirrespective  of the fact whether he has a right  of  appealunder any of the other clauses or not.	It does not say thata  permit granted or renewed cannot be questioned except  atthe700instance  of the persons mentioned in cl. (f); it  does	 notaffect	the right of appeal under the other clauses.  If  anappeal	lies under any of the other clauses, that of  coursemust be an effective appeal and the appellate authority musttherefore  have all powers to give the relief to  which	 theappellant is found entitled.Again s. 64 is not concerned with defining the powers of theappellate  authority and does not purport to do so.  Nor  isthere anything in the Act to lead to the conclusion that  anapplicant for a permit is bound to put in objections againstthe  applications of competing applicants for the  grant  orthe  renewal of the permit.  The relief that can be  grantedin  an	appeal by any person which is  competent  would	 notdepend	on  whether  he bad put in  objections	against	 theapplications of the competing applicants or not.We  do not therefore think that cl. (f) of s. 64 in any	 wayrestricts  the power of the Appellate Tribunal to grant	 allproper	reliefs in an appeal competent under el. (a) of	 thesection.   If cl. (f) does not so restrict the power of	 theAppellate Tribunal, nothing else has been pointed out to  usas having that effect.	In our view, there is nothing in theAct to prevent the Appellate Tribunal from setting aside theorder	of  the	 State	Transport  Authority  renewinu	 theappellant's  permit.  We think the matter was correctly	 putin S. Gopala Reddi's case (1) when it was said at p. 132:"The  appeal was, in our opinion, perfectly competent as  anappeal	 against  the  order  of  the	Regional   TransportAuthority,  refusing to grant a permit.	 The fact that	suchan appeal involved an attack on the order granting a renewalof  a  permit to the 4th respondent would  not	prevent	 theappeal being what it was, viz., an appeal against a  refusalto  grant  a  permit, to the appellant.	  The  Central	RoadTraffic	 Board	erred in presuming that it was not  open  tothem  in  the  appeal to consider the merits  of  the  ordergranting  renewal of the 4th respondent's  permit.   Indeed,the first question which had to be determined in the  appealfiled by the appellant would be the propriety of the  actionof the Regional Transport Authority in granting(1)  [1955] 2 M.L.J. 130.701renewal to the 4th respondent.	The filing of the appeal  bythe  appellant	set  at	 large the  order  of  the  RegionalTransport Authority granting the renewal."In  the	 Dholpur  Co-operative Transport  etc.	 Union	Ltd.case(') on which the appellant relies, no objection had beenfiled  against	any of the competing  applications  for	 thegrant  of  a  permit  and it was  held	that  the  appellateauthority had no power in such circumstances on appeal by  aperson	whose  application for the grant of the	 permit	 hadbeen refused, to give relief by cancelling a permit  grantedby  the subordinate authority to one of the applicants.	  Itwas  there thought that Nadar Transport,  Tiruchirapalli  v.State of Madras (2) led to this conclusion.  For the reasonsearlier	 mentioned we are unable to agree with this part  ofthe  decision  in the Dholpur  Co-operative  Transport	etc.Union Ltd. case (1).  With the rest of the decision there weare not concerned and as to that we do not say anything.  Wealso  find  nothing  in the Nadar  Transport  case  (2),  tosupport	 the conclusion arrived at in  Dholpur	Co-operativeTransport etc.	Union Ltd. case(1).  In the Nadar  Transportcase(2),  on the contrary, it was observed that "  see.	 64,sub-sees.  (a) and (f) are intended in our opinion to  applyto  different  situations  " and that "	 the  power  of	 theappellate  authority is not restricted in any manner  eitherby the provisions of s. 64 or by any of the rules made underthe powers conferred by the Act ". It was there held that inan appeal under s. 64 (a) no grounds other than those  takenbefore	the lower authority could be canvassed.	  That	doesnot  lead  to  the conclusion that  on	proper	grounds	 allreliefs	 necessary  to make the appeal effective  cannot  begranted.   We  think that the Nadar Transport case  (2)	 wasmisunderstood.The  result  is that this appeal fails and it  is  dismissedwith costs.Appeal dismissed.(1)  A. I. R. 1955 Rajasthan 19, 26.(2)  A. I. R. 1953 Mad. 1, 3.702