PETITIONER:THE UNION OF INDIA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMERCIAL TAX OFFICER, WESTBENGAL AND OTHERS(WITH CONNEDATE OF JUDGMENT:19/12/1955BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJANBENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJANBOSE, VIVIANBHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.JAGANNADHADAS, B.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.CITATION: 1956 AIR  202		  1955 SCR  (2)1076ACT:Sales  Tax-Sale of hessian to the Ministry of  Industry	 andSupplies  of the Government of India-If exempt from  paymentof  sales tax-Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Act,  1941  (BengalAct VI of 1941), s. 5(2)(a)(iii).HEADNOTE:Per  S.	 R.  DAS, ACTING C.j.,	VIVIAN	BOSE,  BHAGWATI	 ANDJAGANNADHADAS	JJ.,  SINHA  J.	 dissenting.-The   exemptioncreated	 by the provisions of s. 5(2)(a)(iii) of the  BengalFinance	 (Sales Tax) Act of 1941 must be construed  strictlyand  cannot be extended to sales to  Government	 departmentsother than those mentioned therein.The Department of Industries and Supplies, which was  subse-quently	 redesignated  as  the Ministry	 of  Industries	 andSupplies,  was not the same as the Indian Stores  Departmentor  the	 Supply Department of the Government of	 India	and,consequently,  sales made to the Ministry of Industries	 andSupplies are not exempt from payment of sales tax under thatsection.In  a  welfare	State  with  ever  expanding  activities  indifferent  fields including trade and  commerce,  Governmentdepartments  are  often entrusted with	the  performance  ofwell-defined activities and are authorised to deal with	 theoutside world and enter into transactions in the same way asan  ordinary  person  or a Company may do and  may  well  beregarded  as distinct units or quasi-legal entities for	 thepurpose for which they are created.Consequently,  the sales of hessian made to the Ministry  ofIndustries  and Supplies of the Government of India  by	 theappellant  Mills were not exempt from payment of  sales	 taxunder  the Act and the State of West Bengal was entitled  tolevy the same.1077Per  SINHA J.-The language of a statute has sometimes to  beconstrued in a modified form in order to give effect to	 thereal intentions of the legislature where, as in the  presentcase, the language is only of a descriptive nature and not adefinitive one.Miller v. Salomons ([1852] 7 Exchequer 475), referred to.Commissioners of Inland Revenue v. Forrest ([1890] 15 A.  C.334), held inapplicable.The  terms  of s. 5(2)(a)(iii) indicate that  the  exemptioncreated attaches to a particular function of the  Governmentof India described by a certain name.The change of nomenclature was, therefore, of no consequenceso  long as a particular department continued  to  dischargethat function, namely, that of purchasing articles includinghessian for the Government of India.History	 of  the  department  shows  that  the	Ministry  ofIndustry  and  Supply is a lineal descendant of	 the  IndianStores	Department  and	 was at the  time  of  the  contractdischarging  its  function on behalf of	 the  Government  ofIndia  and, consequently, the sales made to it must be	heldto be exempt from payment of sales tax.A  department of the Government is neither a natural  nor  alegal  person  but  is	one  of	 the  many  functions  of  aGovernment placed in charge of a hierarchy of officials withthe head of the department at the apex.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 9 and 10 of1954.On  appeal from the Judgment and Order dated the 9th day  ofJune  1952  of the Calcutta High Court in Appeal No.  26  of1952 arising out of the Order dated the 6th day of  December1951 of the said High Court exercising its Ordinary OriginalCivil Jurisdiction in Matter No. 110 of 1950.C.K.  Daphtary,	 Solicitor-General of India,  (R.  GanapathyIyer and R. H. Dhebar, with him) for the appellant in C.  A.No. 9 of 1954 and respondent No. 3 in No. 10 of 1954.S.   Chowdhury, (S.  N. Mukherji, B. N. Ghosh and A.   K.Bose, with him) for the appellant in C. A. No. 10 of 1954.S. M. Bose, Advocate-General of West Bengal, (B. Sen and  P.K.  Bose,  with him) for respondents Nos.  I and 2  in	bothappeals.10781955.  December 19.DAS  ACTING C. J.-The only question canvassed before  us  inthe  above  appeals,  which have  been	beard  together,  iswhether	 certain  sales of goods made by  Shri	Ganesh	JuteMills,	Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as the Mills)  to	 theGovernment  of India, Ministry of Industry and Supplies	 areto be deducted from the taxable turnover of the Mills so  asto  be exempt from sales tax demanded by the Commercial	 TaxOfficer of the State of West Bengal.  The relevant facts arestated-below.On  the	 first of September 1948 the  Government  of  India,Ministry of Industry and Supplies, in Calcutta, placed	withthe Mills a confirmatory order in writing bearing No. Cal/J-1/2001/103  for the supply to the Government of India  of  alarge quantity of hessian cloth of different descriptions atdifferent prices ,therein mentioned.  It was stipulated thatthe contract would be governed by the conditions of contractspecified  in  Form WSB 133 as amended up-to-date.   It	 wasspecifically mentioned that the goods ordered were  requiredto  meet  an international obligation of the  Government  ofIndia  and  as	such  the  execution  of  the  contract	  inaccordance with the programme of deliveries as given in	 theschedule attached thereto was essential.  The agreed  priceswere  stated to be exclusive of the Bengal Sales Tax and  itwas  stipulated that the Government of India  would  arrangedirect payment of sales tax to the Government of West Bengalif  it	was ultimately found that Sales Tax was	 payable  inrespect	 of  that  contract.   Pursuant	 to  the   aforesaidcontract,  the	Mills supplied goods to	 the  Government  ofIndia  of the aggregate value of Rs. 2,10,040 calculated  atthe prices agreed upon.The  Commercial	  Tax Officer, Beadon  Street,	District  IfCharge, claimed that the aforesaid sales should be  includedin  the taxable turnover of the Mills and assessed to  salestax.  The Mills, on the ,other hand, claimed exemption undersection	 5  of	the Bengal Finance (Sales  Tax)	 Act,  1941.(Bengal Act VI of 1941).  The relevant portion of section  5ran as follows;-1079"5. (1) The tax payable by a dealer under this Act shalL  belevied at the rate of one quarter of an anna in the rupee onhis taxable turnover;(2)  In	 this  Act the expression "taxable  turnover"  meansthat  part  of a dealer's gross turnover during	 any  periodwhich remains, after deducting therefrom-(a)  his turnover during that period on--(i).............(ii)............(iii)	  sales to the Indian Stores Department, the  SupplyDepartment  of the Government of India, and any	 railway  orwater transport administration;(iv)...........(v)............(vi)............(b)............"The Mills further contended that if any sales tax was at allpayable the same was payable by the Government of India	 andnot  by	 them.	The Commercial Tax  Officer  overruled	boththese  objections and on the 8th November 1950	he  assessedthe  Mills to sales tax in respect of the supplies  made  bythe  Mills  to the Government of India under  the  aforesaidcontract and demanded a sum of Rs. 9,401-10-6.On  the 6th December 1950 the Mills filed a  petition  underarticle	 226  of the Constitution of India before  the	HighCourt  at Calcutta.  In the petition the Mills impleaded  asrespondents  the Commercial Tax Officer, the State  of	WestBengal and the Union of India.	The Mills prayed for a	writof  mandamus  on  the respondents to  cancel  and/or  recalland/or	forbear from acting or giving effect to	 the  demanddated  the 8th November 1950 and from realising the  sum  ofRs.  9,401-10-6 and for a writ of certiorari for  productionof  the	 records and proceedings before the  Commercial	 TaxOfficer	 and for quashing the same and for other  incidentalreliefs.   On  the  same  day  a  rule	was  issued  on	 therespondents  to show cause why the orders prayed for  shouldnot be made.The Commercial Tax Officer filed an affidavit in  oppositiondisputing the contentions put forward by1080the  Mills  in	support of their  claim	 for  exemption	 andmaintaining that sales tax was due and had been legitimatelyassessed and demanded.	On behalf of the Union of India	 wasfiled  an  affidavit affirmed by one M. -P.  Pai,  the	thenJoint  Secretary  in  the Ministry of  Works,  Production  &Supply.	  It  was therein stated that a	 department  of	 theGovernment of India named the Department of Supply came intoexistence in the month of September 1939 immediately on	 thecommencement of World War II and before the enactment of theBengal	Finance	 (Sales	 Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal	 Act  VI  of1941).	It was averred that before the 7th January 1946	 thesaid  Department of Supply was charged with the	 procurementof Stores from all places in India including Bengal and thatit also directed the work of Indian Stores Department in theUnited Kingdom and of the India Supply Mission in the UnitedStates	of  America.  It was added that	 by  Resolution	 No.227/45-Pub(c)  dated  the 31st December 1945  the  Governor-General	 in Council announced the creation with effect	fromthe  7th  January  1946 of the Department  of  Industries  &Supply in place of the existing Department of Supply and  ofIndustries  and	 Civil Supplies.  It was  claimed  that	 thepowers	and  functions of the Department of  Industries	 andSupplies were the same as those of the Department of  Supplyand  that there was no variation in the nature of  the	saidfunctions whatsoever.The  rule came up for hearing before Bose, J., who took	 theview  that  the	 newly created Department  of  Industries  &Supplies  was charged with the same work of  procurement  ofstores	 for  Government  as  had  been	 entrusted  to	 theDepartment  of Supply and certain additional works and	thatlater on the name was again changed to Ministry of  Industryand  Supply.   The learned Judge pointed out  that  althoughthere  was a change in the designation of the Indian  StoresDepartment  and the Supply Department of the  Government  ofIndia,	section 5 (2) (a) (iii) was not amended in  any	 wayuntil  1949  when by an amending Act (West Bengal Act  X  of1949) the exemption1081granted	 under	section	 5(2)(a)(iii)  was  withdrawn.	 Thelearned	 Judge appears to have regarded this con-,  tinuanceof section 5(2) (a) (iii) in the Bengal Finance (Sales	Tax)Act,  1941  as indicative of the fact that in  view  of	 theState  of West Bengal the Ministry of Industry & Supply	 wasthe  same  as the Indian Stores Department  and	 the  SupplyDepartment  of	the Government of India referred to  in	 thesection.  The learned Judge accordingly held that the  Millswere  entitled to the benefit of the exemption and were	 notliable	to  pay	 sales tax in respect  of  the	supplies  inquestion.  He accordingly, on the 3rd January 1952, made therule absolute.The  Commercial	 Tax Officer and the State of  West  'Bengalwent up on appeal from the said judgment and order of  Bose,J. The appeal came up for hearing before & Bench  consistingof  K.C. Das Gupta, J. and P. N. Mookerjee, J.	In  separatebut  concurring judgments both the learned  Judges  rejectedthe  preliminary objection taken by the Mills and the  Unionof  India as to the maintainability of the appeal.   On	 themerits both of them held that the Department of Industries &Supplies was not the same as the Indian Stores Department orthe  Supply Department of the Government of India.  The	 olddepartments  ceased to exist and a new department  combiningsome  of  the functions of these departments  and  some	 newfunctions  was	created and that, therefore,  sales  to	 thenewly  created	department could not be	 deducted  from	 thetaxable	 turnover  under  section 5(2) (a)  (iii).   In	 theresult, the Appeal Court allowed the appeal with costs,	 setaside the order of Bose, J. and dismissed the application ofthe Mills under Article 226.  The Mills as well as the Unionof  India  have	 now  come up on appeal	 before	 us  with  acertificate of fitness granted by the High Court.In  view  of the decision of this Court in  National  SewingThread	Co.  Ltd. v. James Chadwick &  Bros.   Ltd.(1),	 thequestion  of maintainability of the appeal before  the	HighCourt has not been raised before us.  The appeals have	beenfought out on the merits only. (1) [1953] S.C.R. 1028.1082The  appeals  came up before this Court for bearing  on	 the22nd  and  23rd	 September 1955.  After	 going	through	 therecords	 it was felt that the materials on record  were	 notsufficient  to enable the Court to determine the real  pointof  controversy	 between  the  parties.	  The  appeals	wereaccordingly  adjourned	and directions were  given  for	 thefiling	of  supplementary affidavits setting out  the  factsrelied	on  by the parties respectively.   Fresh  affidavitshave since been filed.It  appears  from the affidavit of one A.  R.  Iyer,  DeputyDirector,  Directorate	General of Supplies  and  Disposals,under the Ministry of Works, Housing & Supply, that in	1918a  department  called  the Contracts  Directorate  had	beenconstituted  as a purchasing Organisation for the  needs  ofthe Army.  With effect from the 1st January 1922 the  IndianStores Department was constituted as a result of the  recom-mendations of the Stores Purchase Committee.  The  functionsof  this  department  were  to	act  as	 a  purchasing	 andinspection   agency  in	 respect  of   certain	 commoditiesincluding  textile  goods for all  Central  departments	 andminor Local Governments and such other authorities as  mightdesire	 to  avail  themselves	of  the	 services  of	thisdepartment.  Annexure III to the affidavit of Iyer indicatesthat it was not obligatory on the other departments to	makepurchases through the Indian Stores Department.	  Originallythis  department was constituted for a period of  two  yearsbut  by	 Resolution No. S. 217 of the Government  of  India,dated  the 6th May 1924, it was placed on a permanent  basisand continued to discharge the same functions.	Rules 5	 and6 attached to this Resolution show that purchases could alsobe made locally by other departments in case of emergency orfor convenience.In  1939 when the outbreak of World War 11 was imminent	 thenecessity for creating a new department was keenly felt	 andthe Governor-General in Council by a Resolution of the	HomeDepartment dated the 26th August 1939 (Annexure V to  Iyer'saffidavit)  announced  the  creation from  that	 date  of  adepartment of Supply "to deal directly with ques-1083tions  concerning  supplies of all kinds  required  for	 theprosecution  of	 war".	Annexure VIII  to  Iyer's  affidavitshows  that the control of the Indian Stores Department	 andall  other  matters relating to the purchase  of  stores  inIndia which were being then dealt with in the Department  ofCommerce  were to be dealt with in the department of  Supplyas  a temporary measure for the duration of the	 war.	Thatthe  Indian Stores Department and the Contracts	 Directoratedid  not  lose	their  identity	 is  shown  by	the   OfficeMemorandum dated the 3rd August 1940 (Annexure X, Clause  4)and Office Memorandum dated the 2nd December 1941  (AnnexureXI, Clause I (a) and Clause 4).	 It is thus clear that up tothe  end of the year 1940 purchases used to be made for	 andon  account  of	 the Government of India  by  the  ContractsDirectorate, the Indian Stores Department and the Departmentof Supply and that purchases were also made locally by otherdepartments.   It  was then that on the 1st  July  1941	 theBengal	Legislature  passed the Bengal Finance	(Sales	Tax)Act, 1941 which by section 5(2) (a) (iii) exempted sales  tothe  Indian Stores Department, the Supply Department of	 theGovernment  of	India  and any railway	or  water  transportadministration	from sales tax.	 Sales to other	 departmentsof the Government of India were not so exempted.By  a Press Note dated the 2nd September 1941 issued by	 theGovernment of India in the Supply Department (Annexure	XIIIto  Iyer's  affidavit)	a  purchase  branch  of	 the  SupplyDepartment  for	 the duration of the war  was  created	witheffect	from  the  1st August 1941 and	it  shows  that	 theContracts  Directorate and the Indian Stores Department	 badthen "ceased to exist as separate entities" for the durationof  the	 war and a new branch was being organised  in  theirplace.Then came the Office Memorandum dated the 23rd December 1941issued	by  the	 Government of India in	 the  Department  ofSupply	(Annexure XIV) which superseded the previous  officememorandum dated the 13th December 1940 (Annexure XII).	 The1371084authorities under the Central Government concerned with	 theproduction, manufacture and purchase of supplies were  shownin  Statement  I annexed thereto.  It is  clearly  mentionedtherein	 that  departments other than the ones	referred  totherein were and, in the absence of orders to the  contrary,would remain independent of the department though working inclose  touch with it (Clause 3).  Powers of  local  purchasewere also not disturbed in any way (Clause 4).	Statement  Iindicates that purchases of various supplies, e.g.,  medicaland veterinary supplies, coal and coke for Railway and othercivil and military authorities in India, etc., and  Printingand  Stationery	 stores,  were	independent  of	 the  SupplyDepartment.   It  is  thus  clear  that	 the  Indian  StoresDepartment  and the Supply Department of the  Government  ofIndia  were not the only departments which bad authority  tomake purchases for and on behalf of the Government of  Indiain its various departments.On the 21st April 1943 came Notification No. 209No.  107/43-Pub(c) whereby the Governor-General in Council announced thecreation,  from	 the  22nd April 1943, of  a  Department  ofIndustries  and Civil Supplies to deal with  (i)  Statisticsand Research, (ii) Development and (iii) Controls.   Shortlythereafter Office Memorandum No. E4(179) dated the 14th	 May1943  issued by the Department of Supply intimated that	 theGovernor-General in Council bad decided that the  Departmentof Industries and Civil Supplies would, with effect from the15th May 1943, take over responsibility for the	 procurementof  cotton textiles and cotton textile stores (Annexure	 XVIto Iyer's affidavit).  So this Department of Industries	 andCivil Supplies became another purchasing organisation of theGovernment of India apart from the Department of Supply.The  Government of India Resolution dated the 31st  December1945  announced	 the  creation, with  effect  from  the	 7thJanuary	 1946, of the Department of Industries and  Suppliesin  place  of  the existing Department	of  Supply  and	 theDepartment  of	Industries  and	 Civil	Supplies.   By	thisResolution the Indian1085Stores Department and the Contracts Directorate which duringthe  war had been brought under the Supply Department,	wereincorporated  in the newly created department.	It  will  benoticed	 that this newly created department had assigned  toit the work of the procurement of stores for the  Governmentof  India which was formerly assigned to the  Department  ofSupply and the Department of Industries and Civil  Supplies.In  addition to these duties this department was  authorisedalso  to  deal	with other things,  namely,  development  ofindustries,  administration  of	 Government  factories	 notallocated  to specialised departments, Disposals of  Surplusand Civil Supplies.  The nature and volume of the  purchasesmade  by  this	newly created  department  became  obviouslydifferent from and larger than those of the two	 departmentsit  replaced.  It is also noteworthy that the Department  ofSupply	which  was created for the prosecution	of  war	 wasabolished as soon as the war was over (Annexure XVII to	 theaffidavit of Iyer).The  Resolution	 of the Government of India  dated  the	 2ndSeptember  1947 published in the Gazette of India dated	 the6th September 1947 (Annexure XVIII) announced, amongst otherthings,	 that  with  effect from the 29th  August  1947	 theDepartment of Industries and Supplies would be re-designatedas the Ministry of Industries and Supply.From  the summary of the annexures to the affidavit of	Iyerfiled in these proceedings it is quite clear that while	 theMinistry  of Industries and Supply was a new designation  ofthe Department of Industries and Supplies, the Department ofIndustries  and Supplies cannot be regarded merely as a	 newdesignation  of the Department of Supply and the  Departmentof  Industries and Civil Supplies.  Indeed,  the  Resolutionannounced the "creation" of the Department of Industries andSupplies in place of the two existing departments  mentionedabove.	 This newly created department had wider powers	 andwas  a new department altogether.  The exemption granted  bythe  Bengal Finance (Sales-Tax) Act, 1941 was given  to	 twodepartments by name.  It was not given to the1086sales to the Government of India in all its departments.  Itis  true  that the Indian Stores Department and	 the  SupplyDepartment  of	the Government of India were  not  corporatebodies	but  they evidently were sufficiently  well  definedorganisations to be referred to as "entities" in some of thePress Notes and Resolutions mentioned above and even in	 theaffidavits filed in these proceedings.	Further, the  BengalFinance	 (Sales	 Tax) Act, 1941 by section 5 (2)  (a)  (iii)certainly  dealt with these two departments as if they	weredistinct entities.  The Act, in a manner, conferred on thesetwo departments the status, as it were, of well defined	 anddistinct  entities  at least for the purposes of  that	Act,namely for making sales to them exempt from the tax.  If  itwere the object of the Bengal Legislature to give  exemptionto  all sales to all departments of the Government of  Indiait  would  have been quite easy for it to  frame  sub-clause(iii)  in a general way as sub-clause (iv) had been  flamed.Further,  if  sales  to these two  departments	were  to  beregarded  as  covering	sales  to  all	departments  of	 theGovernment of India then the sales to the railways which  atthat time mostly, if not wholly, belonged to the  Governmentof India need not have been separately mentioned in the	 wayit  has been in sub-clause (iii).  As already stated,  therewere,  at  the date when the Act was passed,  various  otherdepartments of the Government of India which were  concernedwith  purchase	of stores but quite  clearly  the  exemptionconferred  by the section was not intended to extend to	 thesales  to  those departments.  Therefore, the  reference  tothese  two  particular	departments in	the  section  cannotpossibly  be read as a reference to the Government of  Indiagenerally.It   has  been	urged  that  the  real	object	of   section5(2)(a)(iii)  was  to give exemption not to  the  particulardepartments  but to the sales of such goods as, at the	dateof  the	 Act,  used to be made	to  those  departments	and,therefore,  sales of those goods made to any  department  ofthe  Government of India which came to be charged  with	 theduty of purchasing those1087goods should also come within the purview of the section andbe entitled to the benefit of the exemption conferred by it.We  are	 unable	 to accept this	 line  of  reasoning.	Thisinterpretation will unduly narrow the scope and ambit of theexemption by limiting it to sales of only those goods as, atthe  date  of  the  Act,  used	to  be	sold  to  those	 twodepartments  and  sales	 of other goods even  to  those	 twodepartments,  however necessary for the prosecution  of	 thewar, would not get the benefit of the exemption.  Such couldnot  possibly  be  the	intention  of  the  legislature	  asexpressed by the language used by it in framing the section.According to the section the exemption is given to all salesmade  to those two departments, no matter whether the  saleswere only of the kind of goods which used to be sold to themat  the	 date of the Act or of other kinds  of	goods.	 Thesuggested interpretation involves the addition of qualifyingwords to the section which ordinarily it is Dot	 permissiblefor  the  court	 to do.	 Further, the press  notes  and	 theresolutions  of	 the Government of  India  summarised  aboveclearly	  indicate   that  there   were	  other	  purchasingdepartments  which  were independent of	 the  Indian  StoresDepartment  or	the Supply Department of the  Government  ofIndia and that the authority of other departments of  makinglocal  purchases was not interfered with by the creation  ofthese  two  departments.  Therefore it may  well  have	beenthat, at the date of the passing of the Act, same or similarkinds  of goods used to be sold to these two departments  aswell  as  to  other  departments but  surely  it  cannot  becontended, in view of the language of the section, that	 theexemption was intended to extend to the sales of the same orsimilar kinds of goods to those other departments also.	  Itis  not necessary for us to pronounce any opinion as to	 thevalidity  or soundness of the extreme position taken  up  bythe  learned Advocate-General of West Bengal namely that  asthe  exemption	is given by a statute to sales made  to	 twodepartments  eo nomine it will not extend to sales  made  tothe  same  department  redesignated by a new  name.   It  isenough for our present1088purpose	 to  say  that	the  Department	 of  Industries	 andSupplies   which  was  subsequently  re-designated  as	 theMinistry  of Industries and Supply was not the same  as	 theIndian	Stores	Department or the Supply Department  of	 theGovernment  of India under a different name.  The scope	 andvolume of the work entrusted to the Department of Industriesand Supplies was much wider and larger than that with  whichthe  two  departments which it replaced	 bad  been  charged.Unlike those of the two departments, its purchases were	 notconfined to goods necessary for the prosecution of the	war.To  extend  the benefit of the statutory  exemption  to	 thesales made to the newly created department of Industries andSupplies,  of goods not required for war purposes but,	say,for  meeting  international obligations as  in	the  presentcase, will necessarily widen the scope of the exemption	 andimpose	greater loss of revenue on the State of West  Bengalthan what the Act by its language intends to do.  In view ofthe  ever expanding activities of the modern  welfare  Stateindifferent fields including that of trade and commerce, theGovernment   departments  are  often  entrusted	  with	 theperformance of well defined activities and are authorised todeal  with the outside world and to enter into contracts  ofsale and purchase and other transactions in the same way  asan  ordinary  person  or company may  do.   Such  Governmentdepartments,  therefore,  may well be regarded	as  distinctunits  or quasi legal entities, at least for the  particularpurposes  for  which  they are created.	 At  any  rate,	 theBengal	Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941 by providing  for	 thededuction of the sales to the two named departments from thetaxable turnover certainly treated those two departments  asdistinct  entities.  This exemption is the creation  of	 thestatute	 and  must be construed strictly and cannot  be	 ex-tended	to  sales to other departments.	 The fact  that	 thesection was not amended until 1949 does not at all  indicatethat  the Bengal Legislature intended to extend the  benefitof  the	 section  to any but  the  departments	specificallymentioned  in  the section.  In our opinion  the  conclusionarrived at by the Appeal1089Court,	namely that the sales tax is payable on the sale  inquestion is correct and these appeals must be dismissed withcosts.SINHA J.-I regret to have to differ from my learned brethrenin the determination of the only question involved in  theseappeals, namely, whether the sales by the appellant in CivilAppeal No. 10 of 1954 (Messrs Shree Ganesh Jute Mills  Ltd.)to the appellant in Civil Appeal No. 9 of 1954, the Union ofIndia	(the  Government  of  India  at	 the  time  of	 thetransactions  in question) were liable to payment  of  salestax  under the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941  (BengalAct VI of 1941), to be referred to hereinafter as "The Act".The facts leading up to these appeals may shortly be  statedas  follows:  The  Government of India in  the	Ministry  ofIndustry  and Supply (which for the sake of brevity  may  becalled	"The Government" entered into a contract on the	 1stSeptember  1948	 with Messrs Shree Ganesh Jute	Mills  Ltd.,which  may  be	designated "The Mills", for  the  supply  ofhessian	  at  certain  rates  and  of  certain	 descriptionappearing  in Exhibit A to the affidavit filed on behalf  ofthe Mills.  With reference to the question of sales tax	 thecontract contains the following stipulation:-"The  prices shown above are exclusive of the  Bengal  SalesTax.  The Government of India will arrange direct payment ofsales  tax  to	the  Government of  West  Bengal  if  it  isultimately  found  that sales tax is payable in	 respect  ofthis contract".It is also provided that "This contract will be governed  bythe  conditions	 of contract specified in Form WSB.  133  asamended	 up  to date".	This contract was entered  into	 andsigned	by "A Huq, Deputy Director of Supplies, for  and  onbehalf	of the Governor-General of India".  In pursuance  ofthe  aforesaid contract the Mills supplied hessian goods  tothe Government of India of a certain valuation on which	 theCommercial  Tax	 Officer  of  Bengal,  the  main  contestingrespondent,  made  a demand of Rs. 9,401-10-6 as  sales	 taxfrom the Mills.	 The Mills demurred to the1090payment and contended that the sales in question were exemptfrom  payment  of  the sales tax demanded  in  view  of	 theprovisions   of	 section  5  (2)  (a)  (iii)  of  the	Act.Eventually the Mills moved the High Court of Calcutta for anappropriate  writ  under  article 226  of  the	Constitutionagainst the contesting respondents.  The matter was heard bya  Single Judge of that Court who by his judgment dated	 the6th December 1951 held that the Mills were not liable to paythe  sales tax demanded and cancelled the notice  of  demandand  directed  the  respondents	 1 and	2  to  forbear	fromenforcing the demand.  Respondents I and 2 went up in appealunder  the  Letters  Patent.   The appeal  was	heard  by  aDivision  Bench which came to the contrary conclusion.	 Themajor  portion of the judgment of the Letters  Patent  Benchwas  devoted to the discussion of the question	whether	 thejudgment of the learned Single Judge in the writ matter	 wasamendable  to the appellate jurisdiction under	the  LettersPatent.	  That	question  has not been	pressed	 during	 thearguments and is therefore no more in controversy.  The onlyquestion that was canvassed before us was the  applicabilityof  section  5 (2) (a) (iii) of the Act which  contains	 theexemption,  the	 benefit  of which is being  sought  by	 theappellants in each case.  The exemption is in these terms:-"Sales	 to  the  Indian  Stores  Department',	the   SupplyDepartment  of the Government of India, and any	 railway  orwater transport administration".It  has been contended on behalf of the appellants that	 thesale  of hessian by the Mills to the Government of India  inthe  Ministry of Industry and Supply is within the terms  ofthe  exemption	quoted	above.	On the	other  hand,  it  iscontended  on  behalf  of the Sales Tax	 Department  of	 theGovernment  of West -Bengal that the sales in question	werenot  covered  by  the aforesaid	 exemption  clause.   It  istherefore necessary to go into some detail of the  formationand development of the Department in question.The   supplementary  affidavit	filed  on  behalf   of	 theGovernment and sworn to by Shri A. R. Iyer, Deputy  Directorof Directorate General of Supplies &1091Disposals, discloses the following facts.  The Indian StoresDepartment was constituted with effect from the 1st  January1922  as  a  result of the  recommendations  of	 the  StoresPurchase  Committee  which  had	 been  constituted  by	 theGovernment  of	India to examine the whole question  of	 theconstitution  of  an expert agency to carry out on  a  largescale purchase of supplies required for the public services,as recommended by the Indian Industrial Commission, with theobject of encouraging the purchase of articles made in Indiafor Government requirements.  The scope and functions of theDepartment,  inter  alia, were to act as  a  purchasing	 andinspection  agency,  and  in an	 advisory  capacity  in	 allmatters connected with the purchase of stores for the publicservices,  on  behalf  of all  Central	Departments  of	 theGovernment  and of the minor local Governments and  also  onbehalf	of  such  major local  Governments,  Company  workedRailways,  Corporations,  Port	Trusts,	 Municipalities	 andquasi  public  bodies and Indian States as might  desire  toavail  themselves  of  the  Department's  assistance.	 Theactivities  of the Department consisted in the purchase	 andinspection in India of a large variety of goods and articlesincluding  "textile goods", so that the purchase of  hessianwhich  is  the particular commodity involved in	 this  case,would be included in the activities of the Department.	 TheDepartment had been constituted in the first instance for  aperiod of two years.  But by a Resolution. of the Governmentof India dated the 6th May 1924 it was placed on a permanentbasis.	 It  continued to discharge the	 same  functions  asbefore.	  It  made purchases not only for the needs  of	 thecivilian departments of the Government of India but also  ofall  the requirements of the Army.  Hessian which  had	beenpurchased  from	 the  Mills  in this case  was	one  of	 theproducts which the Government of India used to purchase onlythrough	 the  Indian Stores Department whenever	 needed	 forGovernment  purposes.	A Department called  the  "ContractsDirectorate"  had been constituted in 1918 as a,  purchasingorganization  for  the	needs of the Army.   But  after	 theconstitution of the Indian1381092Stores Department in 1922 the Army authorities also began toutilize	 the  services of the Indian Stores  Department	 forprocurement  of	 several categories of	stores	required  bythem.  By a Resolution of the Home Department dated the 26thAugust 1939, apparently to meet the demands of the  imminentsecond	world war, the Contracts Directorate and the  IndianStores	 Department  were  in  1940  amalgamated  with	 theDepartment  of	Supply	so that in 1941, when  the  Act	 waspassed,	 the position was that the Department of  Supply  asreorganized  on	 the 3rd August 1940  included	amongst	 itsactivities  and	 functions the purchase of  stores  for	 theneeds  of the Government.  This branch of its  activity	 wasadministered  by  the Directorate  General,  Supply  Branch,located at New Delhi.  Jute products and textiles  includinghessian	 had to be purchased only by placing indents by	 thedepartment concerned with the Directorate General of Supply,New  Delhi.  Thus this Department absorbed for the  durationof  the	 war the purchasing sections of	 the  Indian  StoresDepartment  and the Contracts Directorate which were  placedunder  completely self-contained organizations empowered  toprocure all supplies, whether for war purposes or otherwise.All  authorities requiring supplies to be procured in  Indiahad  to	 place their indents or demands on  the	 DirectorateGeneral concerned.  With effect from the 1st August 1941 theContracts  Directorate	and  the  Indian  Stores  Departmentceased	 to  exist  as	separate  entities  in	the   SupplyDepartment  and	 became one purchasing organization  in	 thesaid  Department.  This Organisation arranged for supply  ofall  classes of stores for purposes of Government,  such  astextiles, leather goods, etc.  Thus hessian which came underthe  bead  of "textiles" which was being  purchased  in	 thefirst	instance  only	by  the	 Indian	 Stores	  Departmentcontinued to be purchased by the Supply Department when	 theIndian	Stores	Department  came under the  control  of	 theSupply	Department.  By a notification dated the 21st  April1943  issued  by  the  Government  of  India  in  the	HomeDepartment, another Department called the Industries and1093Civil Supplies Department was created.	This Department	 wasprimarily  concerned  with  statistics	and.  research	 anddevelopment  of	 industries,  as  also'	 controls  on  civilsupplies (other than foodstuffs).  When this Department	 wasfirst  created,	 it had no purchasing  activity.   But	witheffect from the, 15th May 1943 the Government directed	thatthe  new department should take over responsibility for	 theprocurement  of	 cotton textiles and cotton  textile  storeswhich  till then were being dealt with by the Indian  StoresDepartment  which later came under the Supply Department  asaforesaid.  Purchase of jute and woollen textiles  continuedto  be	the responsibility of the Supply Department.   By  aResolution  of	the  Government	 of  India  dated  the	31stDecember  1945 the Department of Industries and Supplies  inplace	of  the	 existing  Departments	of  Supply  and	  ofIndustries  and Civil Supplies was created with effect	fromthe  7th  January 1946.	 From that date	 the  Department  ofIndustries   and   Supplies  became  responsible   for	 theprocurement  of stores from all places in India in the	samemanner as the Department of Supply had been doing previouslyto its amalgamation with the new Department.  The powers andfunctions  of the Department of Industries and	Supplies  inthe  matter  of procurement of stores continued	 as  before.The  Department continued to procure and purchase  only	 thesame kinds of articles as the Department of Supply had	beendoing before the coming into existence of the Department  ofIndustries  and	 Supplies  so  that  the  creation  of	 theDepartment  of	Industries  and Supplies did  not  make	 anydifference in its activities relating to purchase of stores.There  was no addition to or subtraction from its  functionsin the matter of purchase of stores.From  what  has	 been stated above, it	is  clear  that	 thepurchasing functions of the Government of India with specialreference  to the procurement of textiles including  hessianwith  which we are immediately concerned were discharged  bythe  Indian Stores Department from 1st January 1922.   Thosefunctions  were	 taken over by the Department of  Supply  in1940,1094The Department of Supply itself merged in the Department  ofIndustries  and	 Supplies with effect from the	7th  January1946.	By  a  notification of the 2nd	September  1947	 theDepartment  of Industries and Supplies was  redesignated  asthe  Ministry  of Industry and Supply with effect  from	 the29th August 1947 as a result of the emergence of India as anIndependent State.  Thus the Ministry of Industry and Supplyis  a lineal descendant of the Indian Stores Department,  ofcourse, with an added volume of work and functions, but	 theoriginal  activity of purchase of stores remaining the	samein bulk and in character.  It has already been noticed	thatthe   Indian  Stores  Department  was  concerned  with	 thefunction,  amongst others, of purchasing stores of  a  largevariety	 of  articles  and goods on behalf  of	all  CentralDepartments  of	 the  Government of  India  and	 Local	Gov-ernments,  Railway  Companies,	Corporations,  Port  Trusts,Municipalities and other quasi public bodies, as also IndianStates	if they availed of the services of  the	 department.Thus  the  infant  Indian Stores  Department  has  grown  instature and volume in the course of the last about 25 years.The  same  sapling  has	 grown into a  shady  tree  but	 itsfunction as the sole purchasing agency of the Government  ofIndia and other Governments for a large variety of goods andcommodities has 'Continued.  The nomenclature has  undergonesuccessive changes, but the function of purchasing agency onbehalf	of  the	 Central and other  Governments	 and  publicbodies as aforesaid has remained the same.  Furthermore, thepurchase  of  hessian, which is the  subject-matter  of	 thedemand	in question has continued in the same  organization,though under a different name.It is well settled that the provisions of a statute have  tobe construed with reference to the state of affairs as	theyexisted	 at  the time the statute was passed.  In  the	year1941  there  was in existence the Supply Department  of	 theGovernment of India which had incorporated the Indian StoresDepartment.   According to the affidavit referred to  above,the main activities of purchase of goods and commodities1095required by the Government of India 'and other	governments,local  bodies, etc., except for purchases of  small  values,that  is to say, not exceeding Rs. 100 in each case  and  ofcertain	 specified  commodities,  like	foodstuffs,  forage,lethal stores, etc. referred to in para. 7 of the  affidavit(at  p. 18 of the supplementary paper book) were carried  onby  the	 Supply	 Department.  That is  the  reason  why	 theexemption to the Government of India was worded as it standsin section 5(2) (a) (iii).  As stated above, the Supply	 De-partment  existed  as a separate department up	to  the	 6thJanuary	 1946.	 With  effect  from  the  7th  January	 theDepartment  of	Industries & Supplies  came  into  existencewhich later was re-designated as the Ministry of Industry  &Supply.	  The judgment under appeal is based chiefly on	 theconsideration that the exemption clause in question does notin  terms  refer to the newly created department  which	 nowgoes by the name of the Ministry of Industry & Supply.	 Butthis department in so far as it deals with industry, is	 notconcerned  with	 the  main  purchasing	activities  of	 theGovernment  of India.  The exemption was granted in  respectof  the purchasing activity of the Government of  India	 andthat  function	continues  to  be  assigned  to	 the  SupplyDepartment which has now become a wing of the newly  createddepartment  -of	 the  Government.   The	 question  thereforearises	whether	 in those circumstances	 the  Government  ofIndia  could claim the benefit of the exemption.   The	HighCourt  in answering that question in the negative  has	goneupon mere nomenclature.	 It has emphasized the change in thename and overlooked the substance of the matter.After all, what is a Department of a Government?  It is	 nota  mere name, whatever else it may be.	It is not a  person,either natural or artificial.  A Department of Government isa particular function.	The Government has so many functionsand each of its functions or a group of functions is  placedin charge of a particular Department which may be made up ofa  number  of  clerks organized in a group,  whose  work  issupervised by a hierarchy of officials with1096the  head of the department at the apex.  A  department	 maytherefore  consist  of	a single function out  of  the	manyfunctions  of  the Government, or it  may  comprise  severalfunctions  placed in charge of a single	 departmental  head.The  Indian Stores Department which came to be	incorporatedin  the	 Supply Department of the Government  of  India	 andlater  merged  in the larger Department of the	Ministry  ofIndustry  &  Supply,  could  have  continued  its   separateexistence as it did until 1939 or could have become part  ofa larger department as it did after the 3rd August 1940,  orthe  7th  January  1946,  or  the  29th	 August	 1947;	 andconversely,  its activities could be split up into a  numberof   sub-departments   under  different	  heads	  classifiedaccording to the nature of the commodities to be  purchased.But, in my opinion, the change in the nomenclature in eitherdirection should not matter so long as the function, namely,of  purchasing	articles  and commodities  required  by	 theGovernment  of India and other Governments continued  to  bethe same.  It is a matter of substance and not of form.The  Department concerned cannot be equated with  a  naturalperson.	  Nor  can  it be raised to the	 level	of  a  legalperson.	  I am not aware of any principle  of  jurisprudencewhich  would justify placing a department of  Government  onthe  pedestal of a legal person.  There is no  tertium	quidbetween	 the two positions.  Though the High Court  has	 notsaid  so  in so many words, it has  treated  the  departmenteither as a legal person or as something in between a  legalperson	and a natural person.  That, in my opinion,  is	 notsound  logic.  Nor is there any legal basis for	 treating  adepartment  of Government either as a legal person or  as  anatural person.	 In my view, the terms of s. 5(2) (a)  (iii)show  that  it	was an exemption  granted  to  a  particularfunction  of the Government of India described by a  certainname.  And one might feel inclined to exclaim with the greatpoet  Shakespeare  "What  is  in  a  name!"  It	 is  but   adescription   of  the  main  purchasing	 activity   of	 theGovernment of India, as the history of the department  aboveset out shows,1097Sometimes the language of a statute has to be construed in amodified form in order to give effect to the real intentionsof  the	 legislature  where, as in the	present	 case,,	 thelanguage  is  only  of	a  descriptive	nature	and  not   adefinitive  one.   An instance of this is furnished  by	 thecase  of Miller v. Salomons(1).	 In that case  the  questionarose whether a person of Jewish persuasion who was returnedto  Parliament	as  a Member of the  House  of	Commons	 wasentitled  to  sit without taking the prescribed	 oath.	 Theform of the oath as given by 6 Geo. 3, c. 53, mentioned	 thename of "King George" only.  It was argued on behalf of thatmember that the oath was confined to the name of a sovereignwho  bore that name.  But it was held by the Court  that  itwas a mere description and that the intention of the statutewas  to	 include all sovereigns who came after	King  George111.  The relevant portion of the observations of the  Courtare in these terms:"The second question arising on the construction of the	 Actis, whether, as the form of the oath given by the 6 Geo.  3,c. 53, mentions the name of King George only, the obligationto  administer it ceased with the reign of  that  Sovereign,because it was applicable to no other than to him.  I  thinkthis  argument	cannot	prevail.   It  is  clear  that	 thelegislature  meant the oath to be taken	 always	 thereafter,for the enactment is general-that it shall be taken  withoutlimit  of time-and the oath is not confined to the  existingmonarch, but mentions 'the successors'; and as it could	 notbe taken in those words during the reign of a Sovereign	 notof  the name of George, it follows that the name  George  ismerely	used by way of designating the	existing  Sovereign;and  the oath must be altered from time to time in the	nameof  the	 Sovereign,  in	 the manner  it	 was  when  actuallyadministered  in  this case, in order to carry	the  obviousmeaning	 of the enactment into effect.	This is an  instancein  which the language of the legislature must be  modified,in  order  to  avoid absurdity and  inconsistency  with	 itsmanifest intentions".(1)  [1852] 7 Exchequer 475; 155 E.R. 1036, 1068.1098The High Court referred to the observation of Lord  Halsburyin the case Of Commissioners of Inland Revenue v. Forrest(1)to  the	 effect	 that exemptions  from	taxation  should  bestrictly construed because otherwise the burden of  taxationwill  fall  on	other  members	of  the	 community.    Thoseobservations, in my opinion, have no relevance to the  factsand  circumstances  of the present controversy,	 because  weknow  that  the exemption was granted to the  Government  ofIndia  in  the department dealing with purchase	 of  certaincommodities and articles without reference to quantity.	  Asalready	 pointed  out,	the  Indian  Stores  Department	 wasconcerned  with	 purchase of stores for public	services  onbehalf	of all Central Departments of Government  and  localGovernments,  etc.,  and the Government of  Bengal  as	thenconstituted  was  one of the Provinces of India	 which	havebeen  receiving	 subsidies and subventions to  make  up	 thedeficit in their budgets.  As a matter of fact, as stated onbehalf	of the Bengal Government the concession was  grantedin order to enable business communities within the  Provinceof Bengal to compete on favourable terms with others outsideBengal	in  the	 matter	 of  supplying	the  needs  of	 theGovernment.    Hence  there  is	 no  question	of   liberalconstruction  of  the  exemption  resulting  in	 throwing  agreater	 burden on other citizens.  On the other  hand,	 thelarger the sales in the Province of Bengal as it used to be,the  greater  the benefit to the  business  community  doingbusiness  within that Province.	 It was therefore stated  atthe  Bar  that	though	the  present  case  involved   taxesamounting to less than Rs. 10,000, the question arising	 fordetermination  in  this case affected  much  larger  amountsbecause	 such sales within the Province amounted to  severalcrores.	  I should have thought that the business  communityin  the Province of Bengal having had the advantage  of	 thetransactions  of  sale,	 the Government	 of  Bengal  in	 allfairness  should have allowed the purchasing agency  of	 theGovernment of India the benefit of the exemption until	thatbenefit was in(1)  [1890] 15 A.C. 334.1099terms withdrawn some time in the beginning of 1949.The matter can be looked at from another point of view also.We are concerned here with the sale of hessian.	 As  pointedout  in the affidavit filed on behalf of the- Government  ofIndia,	the  purchase  of hessian has  all  along  been	 theconcern	 of the Supply Department, now incorporated  in	 theMinistry  of Industry & Supply.	 Sales tax is a tax on	saleof goods and tax on hessians falls within the  contemplationof the law granting the exemption if the sales were effectedthrough	 the purchasing agency of the Government  of  India.The  beneficiary certainly was not an amorphous body like  adepartment  but the Government of India, because it  is	 theGovernment  of India which could be a unit for	purposes  ofthe Act.In  this  connection our attention was invited to  the	lastclause	of  the	 exemption covered by  the  words  "and	 anyRailway	 or water transport administration".   The  argumentwas  that if the Government of India as such was to  be	 thebeneficiary, then there was no necessity for the words	justquoted.	 But this argument overlooks the fact that a railwayor a water transport administration need not necessarily  bea  department  of Government because there were,  and  stillare,  railway systems or water transport systems  which	 areowned  and administered by corporate bodies other  than	 theGovernment  of India.  Sales even to those public  or  semi-public bodies were within the terms of the exemption.  Thosewords therefore are not words of limitation but words  whichwiden  the scope of the exemption in so far as the same	 maybe available to railways and water transport administrationsnot owned and carried on by the Government of India.Another	 reason	 which	may  be adduced	 in  answer  to	 thecontention that there was nothing to prevent the Legislaturefrom  stating that the exemption was granted in	 respect  ofall purchases by the Government of India is that the  IndianStores	Department  and its later substitutes  had  to	makepurchases Dot only for the Government of India but also	 forlocal  governments  and	 other	public	bodies.	  Hence	 theexemption1100in  the terms in which it occurs in section 5  (2)  (a)(iii)was  not an exemption in favour of the Government  of  Indiaonly  but also to other Governments and public bodies  whichcould avail themselves of the facility of purchase  -throughthat department.Another argument was urged to meet the appellant's case thatreally	the exemption was meant for the Government of  Indiain  its	 function  of purchase of  stores  and	commodities,discharged  through the Indian Stores Department  and  laterthrough	 the Supply Department.	 It was argued that  if	 thelegislature  meant to grant the exemption to the  Governmentof  India, then the easiest thing to do would have  been  tosay  that sales to the Government of India were exempt	fromthe  tax.   But	 it  has not  been  the	 contention  of	 theappellant  that	 all sales to the Government  of  India	 arewithin	 the  terms  of	 the  exemption.   Only	 the   salestransacted   through  the  purchasing  department   of	 theGovernment  of	India  were so exempt.	In para.  7  of	 theaffidavit referred to above it has been stated on behalf  ofthe Government that the different departments were  entitledto make local purchases of small values, that is to say, notexceeding Rs. 100 and of certain specified commodities	likefoodstuffs which were not within the purchasing activity  ofthe  departments  aforesaid  of	 the  Government  of  India.Hence, in my opinion, there is no validity in this  argumenteither. It  was  also	suggested during the argument  that  if	 theexemption  were to be related to only such  commodities	 andarticles as were within the purview of the Stores Departmentand   later   of  the  Supply  Department,  then   such	  aninterpretation would involve addition of qualifying words tothe  section which is not ordinarily within the function  ofthe courts.  But, in my opinion, this argument also  suffersfrom the infirmity that,it equates the departments mentionedin the exemption clause quoted above with a legal person,-anargument which has already been dealt with.  In my  opinion,there  is no escape from the conclusion that those are	merewords  of  description	and  are  not  words  with   definedconnotation, because1101neither the Act nor the rules framed thereunder define thosedepartments.  If the nomenclature only mattered, then  thereis no escape from the conclusion that whatever articles	 andcommodities  were purchased by the Indian Stores  Departmentor  its later substitutes, of whatever magnitude and  value,would  be  within the mischief of the  exemption  clause  inquestion.  But that, in my opinion, was not the intention ofthe  framers of the Act.  They knew what the  activities  ofthe  Government	 through  those	 departments  were  and	 theexemption was granted only in respect of those functions  ofthe Government, as already indicated.For  the aforesaid reasons I would allow these appeals,	 setaside the orders of the Letters Patent Bench and restore theorders	passed	by  the Single Judge of	 the  Calcutta	HighCourt, with costs throughout.BY THE COURT.In accordance with the Judgment of the majority the  appealsare dismissed with costs.