PETITIONER:SHRI RAM NARAIN	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE SIMLA BANKING & INDUSTRIAL CO.LIMITED.DATE OF JUDGMENT:09/05/1956BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.BENCH:JAGANNADHADAS, B.BOSE, VIVIANSINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.CITATION: 1956 AIR  614		  1956 SCR  603ACT:Banking	 Companies Act, 1949 (X of 1949) as amended  by	 ActLII  of 1953, ss. 45-A, 45-B, 45-C-Displaced Persons  (DebtsAdjustment)  Act, 1951 (LXX of 1951), ss.  3,  28-Overridingeffect	as against all other laws-Purpose and policy of	 thetwo  Acts-Tribunal  under Act LXX of 1961-Whether  a  Court-Transfer  of  proceedings  under  s.  45-C  of	the  BankingCompanies Act-Period of limitation.HEADNOTE:The  appellant, a displaced person, bad a fixed	 deposit  inthe Lahore     Branch  of the respondent Bank which had	 itshead-office at Simla,	 and he also had at the time a cash-credit account in the Bank.   As the Bank refused to pay theamount	of  fixed deposit on its maturity but  adjusted	 -ittowards part payment of the amount said to be due from	him,he filed an application to the Tribunal at Banaras under  s.4  of  the Displaced Persons (Debts Adjustment)	 Act,  1951,claiming the amount of the fixed deposit as a debt due	fromthe Bank.  During the pendency of the application there wereproceedings taken for winding up the Bank in the High  Courtof  Punjab.  On the 3rd January 1953 a decree was passed  bythe  Tribunal and the appellant filed an application  beforeit  for	 execution  of the decree,  which,  ultimately,	 wastransferred to the Bombay High Court under the provisions ofthe  Code of Civil Procedure.  The  appellant's	 applicationbefore	the  Bombay  High Court for the	 attachment  of	 theproperty  belonging  to the Bank and situate in	 Bombay	 wasordered	 on the 18th June 1954.	 On the 26th June  1954	 theOfficial  Liquidator of the Bank obtained an order from	 thePunjab High Court purporting to be one under s. 45-C of	 theBanking Companies Act, transferring to itself from the Courtof  the	 Banaras  Tribunal the	proceedings  before  it	 forexecution  of  the decree obtained against the Bank  by	 theappellant,  and subsequently the order of attachment  passedby the Bombay High Court was set aside by the High Court  ofPunjab on the ground that (1) the provisions of the  BankingCompanies  Act as amended in 1953 had an overriding  effect,and  that  exclusive jurisdiction was vested in	 the  PunjabHigh   Court  notwithstanding  anything	 in  the   Displaced-Persons  (Debts Adjustment) Act, 1951 and (ii) there was  avalid  order  of transfer to the Punjab High Court,  of	 theexecution  proceedings taken by the appellant in respect  ofhis decree.  The appellant appealed to the Supreme Court.Held,  that  (1)  in view of  the  wide	 and'  comprehensivelanguage of ss. 45-A and 45-B of the Banking Companies	Act,1949, as604amended	 in  1953,  the proceeding  to	execute	 the  decreeobtained by the appellant from the Tribunal against the Bankand  all  other	 incidental matters  arising  therefrom	 arewithin the exclusive jurisdiction of the Punjab High Court; (ii)  whatever	 may be the inter se  position	between	 theprovisions  of	the Banking Companies Act and those  of	 theDisplaced  Persons (Debts Adjustment) Act in so far as	suchprovisions  relate  to displaced debtors,  the	jurisdictionclearly and definitely vested in the High Court by the	veryspecific and comprehensive wording of s. 45-B of the BankingCompanies  Act cannot be said to be overridden or  displacedby anything in the Displaced Persons (Debts Adjustment) Act,in so far as they relate to displaced creditors;(iii)	  the Tribunal which is to exercise the jurisdictionfor executing the decree in question is a "court" within themeaning	 of s. 45-C of the Banking Companies  Act,  whatevermay be its status when it passed the decree as a Tribunal; (iv) having regard to the scheme and policy of ss. 45-B and45-0  of  the Banking Companies Act, in respect	 of  pendingmatters	 which	have not been brought to the notice  of	 theCourt  by  the	Liquidator within  three  months,  there  isnothing	 to  prevent  the  Court  exercising  its  power  oftransfer  at such time when it is brought to the  notice  ofthe Court.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 313 of 1955.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedthe 12th May 1955 of the Punjab High Court at Chandigarh  inLiquidation Miscellaneous No. 72 of 1954.J.   B.	 Dadachanji. and Rameshwar Nath, for the appellant.M.   C.	 Setalvad, Attorney-General for India  and  RatanlalChowla, for the respondent.1956 May 9. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byJAGANNADHADAS J.-This is an appeal by special leave  againstan  order  of the High Court of Punjab dated the  12th	May,1955, in the following circumstances. The  appellant	 was a resident of Lahore who came  over  toIndia  in or about November, 1947, and took up residence  atBanaras as a displaced person.	He605had, prior to the 15th August, 1947, a fixed deposit of	 Rs.1,00,000  in  the  Lahore Branch of the	 Simla	Banking	 andIndustrial  Co. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as  the  Bank)which had its head-office at Simla.  He had also at the timea  cash-credit	account	 in the	 Bank.	 The  fixed  depositmatured	 in  1948.  The Bank did not pay the amount  to	 theappellant  in  spite of repeated demands but seems  to	haveadjusted  it towards part payment of a sum of  Rs.  4,00,000which is alleged to have been due from the appellant to	 theBank  in  his cash-credit account and  which  the  appellantdisputed  and  denied.	 On  the  7th  November,  1951,	 theDisplaced Persons (Debts Adjustment) Act, 1951 (LXX of 1951)was  passed  providing	certain facilities  and	 reliefs  todisplaced  debtors  and displaced creditors.  Section  4  ofthat Act empowered the State Government to specify any civilcourt  or  class of civil courts, ,As the  Tribunals  havingauthority  to exercise jurisdiction under the Act for  areasto  be	defined therein.  Section 13 of the  Act  enabled  adisplaced  creditor claiming a debt from any person  who  isnot  a displaced person to make an application for  recoverythereof	 to  the Tribunal having local jurisdiction  in	 theplace where the said creditor resides, and provided for	 thepurpose a special limitation of one year from the date	whenthe  Act  came into force.  Admittedly the  appellant  is  adisplaced  person,  and the Bank is not	 a  displaced  Bank,within	the meaning of those expressions as defined  in	 thesaid  Act.   Taking  advantage	of  these  provisions,	 theappellant  filed  on  or  about the  24th  April,  1952,  anapplication (Case No. I of 1952) to the Tribunal at  Banarasconstituted  under section 4 of the Act, claiming the  fixeddeposit amount of Rs. 1,00,000 as a debt due from the  Bank.During	the pendency of this proceeding there was an  appli-cation	on  the	 27th  December,  1952,	 under	the   IndianCompanies  Act,	 1913  (VII of 1913) in the  High  Court  of'Punjab	 by some creditors for the winding up of  the  Bank.On  the 29th December, 1952, an ex parte interim  order	 waspassed	by  the High Court under section 171 of	 the  IndianCompanies   Act	 staying  proceedings  in  all	 suits	 andapplications pending against606the Bank, at the time.	The application-Case No. I of  1952-filed by the appellant before the Banaras Tribunal was	alsospecified therein.  It would appear however that before	 theorder was communicated to the Tribunal, the said case beforeit  was	 disposed  of and a decree was	passed	on  the	 3rdJanuary,  1953,	 against the Bank for the sum  claimed	withfuture	interest at three per cent. per annum.	On  the	 6thJanuary, 1953, the appellant filed an application before theTribunal for execution of the decree and it was numbered  asExecution  Case No. 8 of 1953.	It appears that on or  aboutthe  27th January, 1953, one Mr. D. D. Dhawan was  appointedby the Punjab High Court as a Provisional Liquidator of	 theBank.	On the application of certain petitioning  creditorsin the winding up proceedings, the High Court passed anotherorder  under section 171 of the Indian Companies Act on	 the30th January, 1953, staying execution of the decree  againstthe  Bank obtained by the appellant.  This order  also	doesnot appear to have been communicated to the Tribunal by	 theCourt.	 But the Tribunal was informed generally  about	 thesituation  by a letter of the Provisional  Liquidator  datedthe  13th  March,  1953.   Thereby,  the  attention  of	 theTribunal was invited to section 171 of the Indian  CompaniesAct  which  enacted that pending proceedings  could  not  beproceeded  with	 except with the leave of  the	Court.	 TheTribunal  was  accordingly requested by this letter  of	 theLiquidator to stay further proceedings before it in Case No.I of 1952.  In view of this intimation, the Tribunal  passedan  order  dated the 20th March,  1953,	 staying  execution,notwithstanding a further application by the appellant datedthe 16th March, 1953, to proceed with the execution.  On the21st March, 1953, the Provisional Liquidator filed an appealin  the	 Allahabad  High Court against	the  decree  of	 theTribunal  obtained by the appellant against the Bank.	Thatappeal is said to be still pending.  On the 24th  September,1953, the winding up of the Bank was finally ordered by	 theCompany	 Judge and the Provisional Liquidator was  appointedas the Official Liquidator for the purpose.607It  is	said that as against this order of a  single  Judge,there  is  a Bench appeal now pending in the High  Court  ofPunjab.	  At  this stage the Banking  Companies	 (Amendment)Ordinance, 1953, (Ordinance No. 4 of 1953), was	 promulgatedon   the  24th	October,  1953.	  This	was   repealed	 andsubstituted,  on  the 30th December, 1953,  by	the  BankingCompanies (Amendment) Act, 1953 (LII of 1953).	On the	17thFebruary,  1954, the appellant filed a	further	 applicationbefore the Tribunal asking that the execution case filed be-fore the Tribunal on the 6th January, 1953, which was stayedin  view  of  the letter of the Liquidator  dated  the	13thMarch,	1953, should now be proceeded with having regard  tothe various reasons set out in that application.   Curiouslyenough two of the reasons alleged were (1) that section	 171of  the	 Indian Companies Act was overridden and  varied  bysection 45-C of the Banking Companies (Amendment)  Ordinance(Act), and (2) that the Tribunal Under the Displaced Persons(Debts	Adjustment)  Act is not a Court and hence  the	stayunder  section	171  of the Indian Companies  Act  or  undersection 45-C of the Banking Companies Act has no applicationto proceedings pending before the Tribunal.  The applicationof the 17th February, 1954, above-mentioned also prayed	 foran  order to send the case for execution to the Bombay	HighCourt  on the ground that the Bank had property	 within	 thelocal  limits  of the jurisdiction of the  said	 High  Courtagainst	 which it was intended to seek execution.   On	thisapplication, notice was issued to the Official Liquidator toappear	and  show  cause  by  the  24th	 April,	 1954.	 TheLiquidator  however  did not appear.  The Tribunal  made  anorder  on the 24th April, 1954, transferring to	 the  BombayHigh  Court under section 39 of the Code of Civil  Procedurethe  said decree for execution.	 On the 8th June, 1954,	 theappellant  filed  an application for  execution	 before	 theBombay	High Court (Application No. 123 of 1954)  and  askedfor attachment and sale of the right, title and interest  ofthe  Bank in certain shares and securities belonging to	 theBank  and lying with the Central Bank of India Ltd.,  Bombaysubject to the charge if608any  on	 the said Bank.	 The attachment was ordered  on	 the18th June, 1954 and was affected on or about the 19th  June,1954.At  this stage the Official Liquidator obtained an order  onthe  26th June, 1954, from the Punjab High Court  purportingto  be one under section 45-C of the Banking Companies	Act,transferring  from  the Court of the Banaras  Tribunal,	 theproceedings  before it for execution of the decree  in	CaseNo. 1 of 1952, obtained. against the Bank by the  appellant.It would appear that the Tribunal, on receipt of this order,informed the High Court by letter dated the 14th July, 1954,that the execution proceedings had already been	 transferredto the High Court of Bombay and that no proceedings relatingto  the execution case were at the time pending	 before	 it.Thereafter the Liquidator made an application dated the 28thOctober,  1954, to the Punjab High Court for  setting  asidethe  order  of the Bombay High Court dated  the	 18th  June,1954, directing attachment of the shares and securities	 be-longing	 to the Bank in the possession of the Central  .Bankof  India  Ltd.	  Bombay.  The main grounds  on	 which	thisapplication was made are-(1)That	 the order of the Tribunal at Banaras  in  executionCase No. 8 of 1953, transferring the decree for execution tothe Bombay High Court more than six months after the passingof  the winding up order, without obtaining leave  from	 thePunjab High Court,was null and void.(2)That the proceedings taken in execution against     theBank  in  the Bombay High Court were also null and  void  inview of sections 171 and 232 of the Indian Companies Act.(3)That	 in view of the Banking Companies  (Amendment)	Act,1953,  it is only the Punjab High Court that  has  exclusivejurisdiction to entertain and decide all claims between	 theBank  and  the	appellant and to  deal	with  the  executionproceedings initiated by the appellant against the Bank.(4)That the execution proceeding was in fact transferred  bythe Punjab High Court to itself by its order dated the	25thJune, 1954, and all questions609arising	 therefrom have to be dealt with and disposed of  bythe Punjab High Court itself.The appellant contested this application in the Punjab	HighCourt on various grounds.  The main contentions were-(1)That	 the provisions of the Banking Companies  Act  couldnot override the provisions of the Displaced Persons  (DebtsAdjustment)  Act, 1951, and that the proceedings  thereunderare not affected by the Banking Companies Act.(2)That in any case there was no valid order of transfer  tothe  Punjab High Court of the execution proceeding  relatingto  the	 decree	 obtained by him against  the  Bank  in	 theBanaras Tribunal.These  contentions were negatived by the Punjab High  Court.It was held that the provisions of the Banking Companies Actof  1953  had  an  overriding  effect  and  that   exclusivejurisdiction  was  vested thereby in  the  appropriate	HighCourt  notwithstanding	anything in. the  Displaced  Persons(Debts	Adjustment) Act, 1951.	It was also held that  therewas  a valid order of transfer to the Punjab High Court,  ofthe execution proceedings taken by the appellant in  respectof  his	 decree.  It was therefore held that  the  order  ofattachment  obtained by the appellant from the	Bombay	HighCourt  was  invalid.   The said order  was  accordingly	 setaside.	It is against this order that the present appeal hasbeen brought.Both  the  above  contentions have  been  strenuously  urgedbefore us on behalf of the appellant and equally strenuouslyopposed on behalf of the Bank.	The learned Attorney-Generalfor  the Bank placed reliance on section 232 of	 the  IndianCompanies  Act at the forefront of his argument and  pointedout  that  under the said section no attachment	 could	havebeen  made without leave of the Court when the Bank  was  inthe process of being wound up by order of the Court.  On theother  side it has been suggested that neither	section	 171nor  section 232 of the Indian Companies Act are  applicableto these proceedings in view of the Banking Companies Act asamended	  in   1953.	This   suggestion,proceeds   on	   amisconception and ignores610section	 2 of the Banking Companies Act	 which	specificallyprovides that the provisions of the Act shall be in additionto  and	 not in derogation of the Indian  Companies  Act  asexpressly provided.  Hence no leave under section 232 of theIndian	Companies Act having been obtained, this might	havebeen enough to dispose of the case against the appellant  ifthe  order  of attachment had been set aside by	 the  BombayHigh  Court itself, on the application of the Liquidator  toit.   Since in this case the order to set  aside  attachmentwas passed by the Punjab High Court, the question has to  begone into as to the jurisdiction of that Court to  interferewith the order of the Bombay High Court or to declare it  tobe  void.   That jurisdiction can only be supported  on	 theview, that exclusive jurisdiction over the matter was vestedin  the Punjab High Court, under the Banking Companies	Act,and  that  a  valid  order  of	transfer  of  the  executionproceeding  to the said Court had been made in	exercise  ofthe powers under that Act.  These questions have, therefore,to be dealt with.On  the facts above stated one matter is clear,	 viz.,	thatthe attempt of the appellant is to realise the amount due tohim  under the decree by getting at the assets of  the	Bankwhich is under liquidation ignoring the purported adjustmentof  the	 deposit made by the Bank towards its  alleged	duesfrom  him under his cash-credit account.  His proceeding  toexecute the decree by attachment is in substance an  attemptto constitutes himself an independent preferential creditor.So  far as the decree is concerned, we wish to	say  nothingabout its validity or otherwise since the matter is  pendingin  appeal  before the Allahabad High Court.   What  we	 areconcerned  with now is the proceeding in execution  of	thatdecree	and the appellant's attempt to get at the assets  ofthe  Bank  in satisfaction thereof.  There can be  no  doubtthat,, apart from any argument available under the DisplacedPersons	  (Debts  Adjustment)  Act,  1951,  which  will	  beconsidered  presently,	the matters which  must	 necessarilyarise  in  the course of such an  execution  proceeding	 arematters which would directly fall611within	the scope of section 45-B of the  Banking  CompaniesAct as amended in 1953 which runs as follows:"The High Court shall, save as otherwise expressly  providedin  section 45-C, have exclusive jurisdiction  to  entertainand  decide any claim made by or against a  banking  companywhich is being wound up (including claims by or against	 anyof  its	 branches in India) or any  application	 made  undersection 153 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (VII of  1913)by  or	in respect of a banking company or any	question  ofpriorities or any other question whatsoever, whether of	 lawor  fact, which may relate to or arise in the course of	 thewinding	 up  of	 a banking company, whether  such  claim  orquestion  has arisen or arises or such application has	beenmade  or is made before or after the date of the  order	 forthe winding up of the banking company or before or after thecommencement  of  the  Banking	Companies  (Amendment)	Act,1953".There  has  been  some faint argument  before  us  that	 thequestions   that  arise	 in  execution	in  this  case	 andparticularly  the question relating to attachment which	 hasbeen  effected by the Bombay High Court, are  not  questionswhich  fall'  within  the scope of  section  45-B.   In	 ouropinion	 this contention is so obviously untenable, in	viewof  the very wide and comprehensive language of the  sectionthat, it requires no more than to be mentioned and rejected.If, therefore, the proceeding to execute the decree obtainedby  the	 appellant in this case and the claims	and  matterswhich must necessarily arise in the course of that executionfall  within  the  scope  of  section  45-B,  the  executionproceeding  in	this case would prima facie  be	 within	 theexclusive jurisdiction of the High Court under section	45-Bsubject	 to the two questions that have been raised  in	 thecase  which  are  (1)  whether	there  is  anything  in	 theDisplaced  Persons  (Debts  Adjustment)	 Act,  1951,   whichoverrides this jurisdiction, and (2) whether in view of	 thefact that the original execution application to the Tribunalwas made before the Banking Companies (Amendment)  Ordinanceand Act of 1953, came into force., there has been any  validorder under section 45-C of612the   Banking  Companies  Act  by  the	Punjab	High   Courttransferring the pending execution proceeding to it-self.So  far	 as the first of the above questions  is  concerned,learned	 counsel for the appellant relies on sections 3	 and28  of the Displaced Persons (Debts Adjustment)	 Act,  1951.Section	 28 declares that the civil court which	 passed	 thedecree	as  a  Tribunal shall be competent  to	execute	 it.Section 3 runs as follows:"3.  Overriding	 effect	 of Act, rules	and  orders:Save  asotherwise expressly provided in this Act, the pro-visions ofthis  Act and of the rules and orders made thereunder  shallhave effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent  therewithcontained  in any other law for the time being in force,  orin  any	 decree	 or order of a court,  or  in  any  contractbetween theparties".On  the strength of these sections learned counsel  for	 theappellant  argues that the jurisdiction, which the  Tribunalhas  under section 28 for executing the decree must  prevailover  the jurisdiction of the High Court in respect of	thismatter under section 45-B of the Banking Companies Act.	  Onthe other hand, the respondent relies on section 45-A of theBanking Companies Act, which runs as follows:"The  provisions of this Part and the rules made  thereundershall  have  effect  notwithstanding  anything	inconsistenttherewith  contained in the Indian Companies Act, 1913	(VIIof  1913),  or the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act  V  of1908),	or  the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act  V  of1808),	or any other law for the time being in force or	 anyinstrument  having effect by virtue of any such law but	 theprovisions  of any such law or instrument in so far  as	 thesame are not varied by, or inconsistent with, the provisionsof  this  Part or rules made thereunder shall apply  to	 allproceedings under this Part".Now the question as to which of the provisions of these	 twoActs  has  got overriding effect in a given  case,  where  aparticular  provision of each is equally applicable  to	 thematter	is  not	 altogether free from  difficulty.   In	 thepresent case, prima facie by virtue613of  section 28 of the Displaced Persons	 (Debts	 Adjustment)Act the jurisdiction to execute the Tribunal's decree is  inthe Tribunal.  But it is equally clear that the jurisdictionto decide any of the claims which must necessarily arise  inthe  execution of the decree is vested in the High Court  byvirtue	of section 45-B of the Banking Companies Act.	Eachof  the	 Acts  has a specific provision, section  3  in	 theDisplaced Persons (Debts Adjustment) Act and section 45-A inthe Banking Companies Act, which clearly indicates that	 therelevant  provision,  if applicable, would  have  overridingeffect as against all other laws in this behalf.  Each beinga  special  Act, the ordinary principle that a	special	 lawoverrides  a general law does not afford any clear  solutionin this case.  In support therefore of the overriding effectof  the Displaced Persons (Debts Adjustment) Act of 1951  asagainst	 section 45-B of the Banking Companies Act,  learnedcounsel	 for  the appellant called in aid the  rule  that  alater  Act overrides an earlier one. (See Craies on  StatuteLaw,  pages  337  and  338).   He  urged  that	the  BankingCompanies (Amendment) Act of 1953 should be treated as	partof  the 1949 Banking Companies Act and hence  overridden  bythe  Displaced	Persons (Debts Adjustment) Act of  1951	 andrelied on the case in Shamarao V. Parulekar v. The  DistrictMagistrate,  Thana, Bombay(1) and on the passage therein  atpage 687 which is as follows:"The  rule is that when a subsequent Act amends	 an  earlierone  in such a way as to incorporate itself, or a,  part  ofitself,	 into  the  earlier,  then  the	 earlier  Act	mustthereafter  be read and construed (except where	 that  wouldlead to a repugnancy, inconsistency or absurdity) as if	 thealtered words had been written into the earlier Act with penand  ink  and the old words scored out	so  that  thereafterthere is no need to refer to the amending Act at all".Now  there  is	no question about the  correctness  of	thisdictum.	 But it appears to us that it has no application  tothis  case.   It is perfectly true as  stated  therein	thatwhenever an amended Act has to be(1)  (1952) S.O.R. 683.614applied subsequent to the date of the amendment the  variousunamended  provisions of the Act have to be read along	withthe amended provisions as though they are part of it.	Thisis  for the purpose of determining what the meaning  of	 anyparticular provision of the Act as amended is, whether it isin the unamended 'part or in the amended part.	But this  isnot the same thing as saying that the amendment itself	mustbe  taken to have been in existence as from the date of	 theearlier	 Act.  That  would  be	imputing  to  the  amendmentretrospective  operation  which could only be done  if	suchretrospective operation is given by the amending Act  eitherexpressly  or  by necessary implication.  On. the  facts  ofthat  case  the question that was considered  arose  in	 thefollowing  circumstances.  There was an order  of  detentionunder  the Preventive Detention Act of 1950.  That  Act	 wasdue  to	 expire	 on the 1st April,  1951.   But	 there	weresubsequent amendments of the Act which extended the life  ofthe Act up to 1st October, 1952.  The amending Act  providedinter  alia that detention orders which had  been  confirmedpreviously  and which were in force immediately	 before	 thecommencement  of the amending Act "shall continue to  remainin force for so long as the principal act is in force".	 Thequestion  for consideration was whether this  indicated	 theoriginal date of expire of the principal Act or the extendeddate  of the principal Act.  The Court had no difficulty  inholding	  that	 it  obviously	related	  to   the   latter,notwithstanding	 that  the  principal  Act  was	 defined  asmeaning "Act of 1950".	It was pointed out that the  phrases"principal  Act"  and "Act of 1950" have  to  be  understoodafter  the amendment as necessarily meaning the 1950 Act  asamended, i.e., which was to expire on the 1st October, 1952.In  the present case what we are concerned with is  not	 themeaning	 of  any particular phrase or provision of  the	 Actafter	the  amendment	but  the  effect  of  the   amendingprovisions  in	their  relation	 to  and  effect  on   otherstatutory  provisions outside the Act.	For such  a  purposethe  amendment	cannot obviously be treated as	having	beenpart of the original Act itself so as to615enable	the  doctrine to be called in aid that a  later	 Actoverrides an earlier Act.  On the other hand, if the rule asto the later Act overriding an earlier Act is to be  appliedto the present case, it is the Banking Companies (Amendment)Act,  1953,. that must be treated as the later Act and	heldto override the provisions of the earlier Displaced  Persons(Debts	Adjustment)  Act, 1951.	 It has	 been  pointed	out,however,  that, section 13 of the Displaced  Persons  (DebtsAdjustment)  Act, uses the phrase "notwithstanding  anythinginconsistent  therewith in any other law for the time  beingin  force"  and it was suggested that this  phrase  is	wideenough	to relate even to a future Act if in operation	whenthe overriding effect has to be determined.  But it is to benoticed	 that section 45-A of the Banking Companies Act	 hasalso  exactly the same phrase.	What the connotation of	 thephrase "'for-the time being" is and which is to prevail whenthere are two provisions like the above each containing	 thesame  phrase,  ate  questions  which  are  not	free   from-difficulty.   It ;Is, therefore, desirable to determine	 theoverriding  effect  of	one or the  other  of  the  relevantprovisions  in	these  two Acts, in a given  case,  on	muchbroader considerations of the purpose and policy  underlyingthe  two  Acts	and the clear  intendment  conveyed  by	 thelanguage of the relevant provisions therein.Now  so	 far as the Banking Companies Act is  concerned	 itspurpose is clearly, as stated in the heading of Part  III-A,for  speedy  disposal of winding up proceedings.   It  is  apermanent statutory measure which is meant to impart  speedystability  to the financial credit structure in the  countryin so far as it may be effected by banks under	liquidation.It  was pointed out in Dhirendra Chandra Pal  v.  AssociatedBank  of Tripura Ltd.(1) that the pre-existing law  relatingto the winding up of a company. involved considerable  delayand expense.  This was sought to be obviated so far as Banksare  concerned	by  vesting exclusive  jurisdiction  in	 theappropriate High Court in respect of all matters arising  inrelation to or in the course of(1)  [1965] 1 S.C.R. 1098.616winding up of the company and by investing the provisions ofthe  Banking Companies Act with an overriding effect.	Thisresult	was  brought about first by  the  Banking  Companies(Amendment)  Act,  1950 and later by the  Banking  Companies(Amendment)  Act, 1953.	 Sections 45-A and 45-B of Part	 IIIbrought in by the 1950 Act vested exclusive jurisdiction in,the  appropriate  High	Court to decide	 all  claims  by  oragainst	 a  Banking Company relating to or  arising  in	 thecourse	of  winding up.	 But sections 45-A and 45-B  of	 thePart   III-A   substituted  by	1953  Act   are	  far	morecomprehensive  and vest not. merely  exclusive	jurisdictionbut specifically provide for the overriding effect of  otherprovisions also. Now, the Displaced Persons (Debts Adjustment) Act is one ofthe  statutory measures meant for relief and  rehabilitationof displaced persons.  It is meant for a temporary situationbrought	  about	 by  unprecedented  circumstances.   It	  ispossible,  therefore, to urge that the provisions of such  ameasure	 are to be treated as being particularly special  intheir nature and that they also serve an important  nationalpurpose.   It  is by and large a measure for  the  rehabili-tation of displaced debtors.  Notwithstanding that both	 theActs are important beneficial measures, each in its own way,there are certain relevant differences to be observed.	-Thefirst  main  difference	 which is  noticeable  is  that	 theprovisions  in the Displaced Persons (Debts Adjustment)	 Actare in a large measure enabling and not exclusive.  There isno provision therein which compels either a displaced debtoror  a  displaced creditor to go to the Tribunal,  if  he  issatisfied with the reliefs which an ordinary civil court cangive him in the normal course.	It is only if he desires  toavail himself of any of the special facilities which the Actgives  to a displaced debtor or to a displaced creditor	 andmakes  an  application in that behalf under sections  3,  or5(2),  or  13, that the Tribunal's jurisdiction	 comes	intooperation.   At	 this point it is necessary  to	 notice	 thefurther	 difference  that exists in  the  Displaced  Persons(Debts	Adjustment)  Act between applications  by  displaceddebtors and ap-617plications  by displaced creditors against persons  who	 arenot  displaced	persons.   So far  as  the  applications  bydisplaced  debtors  are	 concerned,  section  15  in   termsprovides   for	certain	 consequences  arising,	  when	 theapplication  is made to the Tribunal by a  displaced  debtorunder  section 3 or section 5(2), i.e., stay of all  pendingproceedings,  the cessation of effect of any interim  ordersor  attachments, etc. and a bar to the institution of  freshproceedings  and  so  forth.  But the terms  of	 section  13relating to the entertainment of an execution proceeding  bythe said Tribunal on a decree so obtained, do not appear  tobring  about even the kind of consequences which section  15contemplates  as regards applications by displaced  debtors.Section	 13  is,  in terms, only  an  enabling	section	 andsection	 28 merely says that "it shall be competent for	 thecivil  court  to  execute  the decree  passed  by  it  as  aTribunal".  They are not couched in terms vesting  exclusivejurisdiction  in the Tribunal.	Whatever, therefore, may  bethe  inter  se,	 position,  in a  given	 case,	between	 theprovisions  of the Banking Companies Act and the  provisionsof  the Displaced Persons (Debts Adjustment) Act, in so	 faras  such  provisions  relate to displaced  debtors,  we	 areunable	to  find  that	the  jurisdiction  so  clearly	 anddefinitely vested in the High Court by the very specific andcomprehensive  wording of section 45-B of the  Banking	Com-panies Act with reference to the matters in question, can besaid  to  be  overridden or displaced  by  anything  in	 theDisplaced Persons (Debts Adjustment) Act, 1951, in so far asthey relate to displaced creditors.It  is also desirable to notice that so far as a claim of  adisplaced   creditor  against  a  non-displaced	 debtor	  isconcerned the main facilities that seem to be available	 are(1)  the  claim	 can be pursued within one  year  after	 thecommencement  of  the Act (presumably even -though  it	may'have  been time barred), (2) a decree can be obtained  on  amere  application,  i.e.,  without  having  to'	 incur	 thenecessary expenses byway of court-fee which would be payableif he had to file a suit, (3) the creditor has the  facilityof  getting his claim adjudicated upon by a  Tribunal  whichhas 80618jurisdiction over the place where he resides, i.e., a  placemore convenient 'to him than if be had to file a suit  underthe ordinary law in which case he would have to file a	suitat  the	 place where the defendant resides or  part  of	 thecause of action arises.	 There may also be a few other minorfacilities.   But  what is necessary to notice is  that	 theoverriding provision of the Banking Companies Act, so far asa displaced creditor is concerned, is substantially only  asregards jurisdiction.  Section 45-A thereof, while providingthat the provisions of Part III-A and the rules made  there-under	shall  have  effect  notwithstanding  anything	 in-consistent therewith in any other law for the time being  inforce,	specifically  provides that "the provisions  of	 anysuch  law  in  so  far as the same  are	 not  varied  by  orinconsistent with, the provisions of that part or rules madethereunder, shall apply to all proceedings under that Part".Therefore,  in	the present case the  overriding  effect  ofsection 45-B of the Banking Companies Act deprives him	onlyof   the   facility  of	 pursuing  his	execution   in	 thejurisdiction of the Tribunal.  But there is no reason why heshould	not  get the benefit of other  provisions,  if	any,which  may  give him an advantage and are  not	inconsistentwith  any  of the other specific provisions of	the  BankingCompanies  Act.	  Having  regard  to  all  the	above	con-siderations  and  the  wide and	 comprehensive	language  ofsections 45-A and 45-B of the Banking Companies Act, we	 areclear  that a proceeding to execute the decree	obtained  bythe appellant from the Tribunal against the Bank in Case No.I of 1952 and all other incidental matters arising therefromsuch  as  attachment  and so forth are	matters	 within	 theexclusive  jurisdiction of the Punjab High Court subject  tothe provisions of section 45-C of the Banking Companies	 Actas  regards pending matters.  This leads us to the  questionwhether	 in  terms of section 45-C there has  been  a  validtransfer  of  the execution proceeding to  the	Punjab	HighCourt.Before dealing with this question it is necessary to  noticethe argument that section 45-C of the Banking Companies	 Acthas no application -at all to a pro-619ceeding	 pending before the Tribunal.  The argument is	thatsection	 45-C  applies only to a proceeding pending  in	 anyother  Court  immediately  before the  commencement  of	 theBanking	 Companies  (Amendment) Act.  It is urged  that	 theTribunal under the Displaced Persons (Debts Adjustment)	 Actis  not a Court.  In support thereof the judgment of one  ofthe  learned Judges in Parkash Textile Mills Ltd. v.  MessrsMuni  Lal  Chuni  Lal(1) has been cited	 to  show  that	 theTribunal  constituted  under this Act is not a	Court.	 Thequestion that arose in that case was a different one,  viz.,as to whether the Tribunal had the exclusive jurisdiction todetermine  for itself the preliminary jurisdiction on  factsand  it is for that purpose the learned Judge  attempted  tomake  out  that	 a  Tribunal  was  a  body  with  a  limitedjurisdiction,  which limits were open to be determined by  aregular court when challenged.	It is unnecessary for us  toconsider  whether  the view taken by the learned  Judge	 wascorrect.   No such question arises in this case and  we	 arequite  clear  that  the Tribunal which is  to  exercise	 thejurisdiction  for  executing the decree in  question  is  "aCourt"	within	the  scope of section 45-C  of	the  BankingCompanies  Act.	 Section 28 of the Displaced Persons  (DebtsAdjustment)  Act itself is reasonably clear on	that  point.That section runs as follows:"It  shall be competent for the civil court which  has	beenspecified  as the Tribunal for the purposes of this  Act  toexecute any decree or order passed by it as the Tribunal  inthe same manner as it could have done if it were a decree ororder passed by it as a civil court".It is quite clear on the wording of this section that it  isa  civil court when it executes the decree, whatever may  beits  status when it passed the decree as a Tribunal.   Thereis, therefore, no substance in this argument.Now  coming to the question whether there has been  a  validtransfer  of  the execution proceedings to the	Punjab	HighCourt, there can be no doubt that the(1)  [1955] 57 P.L. R. 107.620execution  proceeding  filed  by the  appellant	 before	 theTribunal  on  the  6th January,'1953,  continued  to  remainpending	 by the date when the Banking Companies	 (Amendment)Act,  1953,  came  into operation.  This  appears  from	 thesubsequent applications dated the 16th March, 1953, and	 the17th  February,	 1954, which always relied  on	the  earlierapplication  of the 6th January, 1953, as the  main  pendingapplication.   This  application was, therefore,  a  pendingapplication for the purposes of section 45-C of the  BankingCompanies  Act.	 The jurisdiction of the Punjab	 High  Courtwith reference to this execution proceeding must depend uponwhether	 or not there was a valid order of transfer of	thisproceeding  to	itself	under section  45-C.   This  sectioncontemplates, in respect of pending proceedings that (a) theOfficial  Liquidator is to make a report to the	 High  Courtconcerned  within  the	time specified	in  sub-section	 (2)thereof,  (b)  the High Court is to consider  which  out  ofthese pending proceedings it should transfer to itself,	 and(c)  the  High	Court should pass  orders  accordingly.	  Itfurther provides by sub-section (4) thereof that as  regardssuch of the pending proceedings in respect of which no	suchorder  of transfer has been made the said  proceeding  shallcontinue  in the Court in which it is pending.	It  is	withreference  to  these provisions that on the  23rd  November,1953,  the Official Liquidator appears to have	submitted  areport	to  the Punjab High Court, requesting  that  certainproceedings mentioned in lists A and B attached to the	saidreport should be transferred to the High Court under section45-C(3).    List  A  pertains  to  suits  and  List   B	  toapplications under the Displaced Persons 'Debts	 Adjustment)Act,  1951.   It is pointed out that list B which  shows  anapplication  before  the Tribunal under section	 19  of	 theDisplaced Persons (Debts Adjustment) Act, does not show	 theexecution  application	under section 28 of  that  Act	thenpending	 in  the  Banaras Tribunal and	with  which  we	 areconcerned.   It	 is strenuously urged that this	 shows	thatthere was no application for transfer of this proceeding  tothe Punjab High Court and that, therefore, there could621have been no transfer thereof and that accordingly by virtueof  section  45-C(4)  of  the  Banking	Companies  Act	 thejurisdiction   in  respect  of	the   execution	  proceedingcontinued  to be with the Tribunal.  It is urged that  sincesub-section (4) of section 45-C enjoins that such proceeding"shall	be continued" in the Court in which  the  proceedingwas  pending,  there  can be no	 question  of  any  transferthereafter.   It  is pointed out that the view of  the	HighCourt  that  there has been a valid transfer  to  itself  isbased on an order passed on an alleged supplementary  reportby  the Liquidator on the 25th June, 1954, which  is  beyondthe three months' time provided in section 45-C (2) and thatsuch  an.  order of transfer is invalid.  It is	 also  urgedthat  the  transfer  so	 made  was  without  notice  to	 theappellant.That  there  was in fact an order of transfer  made  by	 thePunjab High Court specifically of this execution  proceedingwith  which we are concerned admits of no doubt as  a  fact.This  is also admitted by the appellant in  his	 applicationfor  special leave.  The order itself is not before  us	 norare  the exact circumstances under which this order came  tobe  made, clearly on the record.  So far as one	 can  gatherfrom  the  papers before us the position seems to  be  this.When the appellant filed his application to the Tribunal  onthe  17th February, 1954 (by which he asked that  its  orderdated  the 20th March, 1953, staying  execution	 proceedingsshould be vacated for reasons shown therein) notice to	showcause  against	it and for appearance therefor on  the	24thApril,	1954,  was sent to the Official	 Liquidator  by	 theTribunal.   The Official Liquidator not having	appeared  onthat date, the Tribunal, as already stated, passed the orderas  prayed  for	 on the 24th April  1954,  transferring	 theexecution to the Bombay High Court.  It may be mentioned  atthis  stage  that  an argument has been	 advanced  that	 theLiquidator,  not  having appeared on notice, can  no  longerchallenge  the validity of the continuance of the  executionproceeding by the Tribunal and of the subsequent  attachmentby the Bombay High Court.  The question, however, is one622of  jurisdiction depending on the validity of transfer	madeby  the High Court under statutory power.  The	argument  iswithout	 substance.  To resume the narrative,  the  OfficialLiquidator on receiving notice, addressed a letter dated the19th  March, 1954, to the Company Judge of the	Punjab	HighCourt  mentioning the fact that he, received a	notice	fromthe  Banaras Tribunal to appear and show cause on  the	24thApril,	1954.	He  mentioned therein his doubt	 as  to	 thejurisdiction  of the Tribupal to entertain  the	 applicationand  requested	that  in order to  avoid  inconvenience	 andexpenditure  an	 immediate transfer of	the  execution	casetogether  with the appellant's application to  the  Tribunalfor vacating the stay order should be made by the High Courtin exercise of the powers conferred on it by section 45-C ofthe  Act.  On this the learned Judge appears to have  passedan  order dated the 22nd March, 1954, issuing notice to	 theappellant  for	appearance  on the 2nd	April,	1954.	Thisappears	 to  have been adjourned from time to  time  and  itwould appear that on the 25th June, 1954, to which date	 thematter	stood  adjourned, the Liquidator  addressed  anotherletter	to  the Company Judge, which is referred to  in	 therecord	as  the	 supplementary	report	of  the	 Liquidator.Therein he only narrated the entire history of the suit	 andof  the	 execution proceeding and  the	circumstances  whichrendered  it necessary that an order of transfer  should  bemade immediately.  Probably this was meant for opposing	 anyfurther adjournment.  It appears at any rate that it was  onthis  date that the order of transfer was passed.   All	 thefacts  stated above can be gathered from the two letters  ofthe  Liquidator	 dated the 19th March, 1954,  and  the	25thJune,  1954, and a further note of the Liquidator put up  tothe  Company  Judge with reference to the letter  dated	 the14th July, 1954, received from the Tribunal which is all therelevant material included in the paper book before us.	 Theactual	date  of the note does not appear from	the  record.Unfortunately  neither the original order of the Judge	madeon  the	 report of the Liquidator dated the  23rd  November,1953, nor the order of623transfer relating to this particular case, which appears  tohave been made on the 25th June, 1954, on the letter of	 theLiquidator dated the 19th March, 1954, are before us.  We donot know the exact terms in which those orders were made andthe reason why no specific order of transfer was made on thefirst  report  and why an additional order of  transfer	 wasmade-as	 appears-so late as on the 25th June, 1954.  In	 anycase the argument on behalf of the appellant on this part ofthe  case  seems  to be based on a  misapprehension  of	 thefacts.	 If, as appears, the order of the 25th	June,  1954,was  made  with reference to the letter	 of  the  Liquidatordated the 19th March, 1954, -a fact which appears ears to beadmitted by the appellant in para 16 of his application	 forleave	to   appeal  to	 this  Court-and  what	 is   calledsupplementary report dated the 25th June, 1954, was  nothingmore  than  bringing additional facts to the notice  of	 theCourt  by  way of the history of the  execution	 proceeding,there appears to be no foundation in fact for the contentionthat  the  order  was made on a report	filed  beyond  threemonths	provided  under	 section  45-C(2)  of  the   BankingCompanies  Act.	  Sub-section (2) of section  45-C  providesthat  "the  Official Liquidator shall, within  three  monthsfrom the date of the winding up order or the commencement ofthe  Banking Companies (Amendment) Act, 1953,  whichever  islater,	or  such further time as the High Court	 may  allow,submit	to the High Court a report containing a list of	 allsuch pending proceedings together with particulars thereof".The letter of the Official Liquidator dated the 19th  March,1954,  is  within three months of the  commencement  of	 theBanking	 Companies  (Amendment) Act, 1953, which  came	intoforce  on the 30th December, 1953, and there is	 nothing  insubsection  (2) of section 45-C that two or more  successivereports	 may  not be made within the  prescribed  period  ofthree  months.	 It  appears  also  from  the  papers  abovereferred  to  that notice was issued to the  appellant	withreference  to  this letter of the 19th March, 1954,  of	 theLiquidator to transfer the execution application to  itself.It appears to us, therefore,624from such record as is before us, that the contention of theappellant raising objection to the validity of the order  oftransfer  is untenable on the facts.' Nor, are we  satisfiedthat even if the facts as to how the order of transfer datedthe  25th  June,  1954,	 came to be made  are  shown  to  beotherwise  than above stated, there is any reason  to  thinkthat sections 45-C(2), (3) and (4) are to be construed so asto make the power of the Court to transfer dependent on	 thefiling	of a report by the Liquidator strictly within  threemonths.	  The various sub-sections, taken together  seem  toimply  the contrary.  Section 45-C(1) definitely  imposes  abar on any pending matter in any other court being proceededwith   except	in  the	 manner	  provided   therein.	 Thejurisdiction  of that other Court to proceed with a  pendingproceeding  is made to depend on the fact that its  pendencyis  brought to the notice of the appropriate High Court	 andits  decision, express or implied, to leave it	out  withouttransferring it to itself.  Having regard to the scheme	 andpolicy	of sections 45-B and 45-C of the  Banking  CompaniesAct, it appears more reasonable to think that in respect  ofa pending matter which was not in fact brought to the noticeof  the	 Court by the Liquidator within	 the  three  months,there  is nothing to prevent the Court exercising its  powerof  transfer at such time when, it is brought to the  noticeof  the Court.	It is, however, unnecessary to	decide	thatpoint finally in this case since, to gay the least, all	 thefacts  and  the	 requisite records have	 not  been  properlyplaced	before us.  We have been asked to send for  all	 therelevant  records in order to ascertain the facts  correctlyor to give an opportunity for the purpose.  We do not  thinkit right to do so in the circumstances of this case.  It  isnecessary to point out, as admitted by the appellant in	 hisapplication  for  special  leave  that	there  has  been  anapplication to this Court dated the 16th October, 1954,	 forthe grant of special leave specifically as against the orderof transfer of the Punjab High Court made on the 25th  June,1954, but that application 'Was rejected.  It625has been suggested that while so rejecting, this Court	leftthe  matter  open.   There is nothing  to  substantiate	 it.Therefore, an argument as to the invalidity of the order  oftransfer cannot be entertained at this stage.For  all  the above reasons we are satisfied that  the	viewtaken  by the High Court that it bad exclusive	jurisdictionin respect of the present matter and that there was a  validtransfer  to itself by its order dated the 25th June,  1954,is correct.In  the	 proceedings before the High Court a good  deal	 hasbeen  made as to the alleged suppression of .material  factsby  the appellant from the Bombay High Court,  in  obtainingthe  impugned  order of attachment from that Court  and	 thelearned	 Judge's  order also indicates that be was  to	someextent	influenced  thereby.   It appears  to  us  that	 thealleged	 suppression  has no bearing on the  questions	thatarose for decision before the learned Judge, on this  appli-cation.	  The learned Attorney-General frankly conceded	 thesame.	 We  have  been	 told  that  there  has	 been	someapplication  for contempt in the Court on the basis  of	 thealleged	 suppression.	We do not, therefore,  wish  to	 sayanything relating to that matter which may have any  bearingon the result of those proceedings.In the result this appeal is dismissed with costs.Appeal dismissed.626