PETITIONER:A.   M. ALLISON	Vs.RESPONDENT:B. L. SEN(and connected appeal)DATE OF JUDGMENT:21/12/1956BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  227		  1957 SCR  359ACT:Minimum	 basic wages-Basic work-load--Extra wages  for	workdone in excess of basic work-load-Writ of certiorari-When tobe granted-Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (XI Of 1948), ss. 3. 5(2)and 20-Constitution of India, Art. 226.HEADNOTE:The labourers were being paid the basic wages of as. 8/- formale  labourers	 and as. 6/- for female	 labourers  for	 thework-load or task of plucking 16 seers and 12 seers of greentea leaves respectively each day.  If the labourers  pluckedlarger	quantities of leaves they were paid extra  wages  atthe  rate  of 6 Ps. per seer in excess of 16  seers  and  12seers  respectively.  The Government issued  a	notificationunder  S.  3 read with S. 5 (2) of the	Minimum	 Wages	Act,1948, increasing the rates of basic wages to as.  I2/and as.11/-  respectively.   The management thereafter	 refused  tomake any extra payment to the labourers at the rate of 6 Ps.per seer unless the leaves plucked by them exceeded 24 seersand 22 seers respectively.Held,  that the sole intention of the Government in  issuingthe  notification  was	to increase the	 basic	wages  whilemaintaining the same basic work-load or task assigned to thelabourers,  so	that  whatever extra work was  done  by	 thelabourers  in  excess of the existing work-load or  task  ofplucking 16 seers and 12 seers of tea leaves by the male andfemale	labourers respectively, bad still to be paid for  atthe rate of 6 Ps. per seer.Quaere:	  Whether the claim for the extra wages amounts to aclaim  arising out of the payment of less than	the  minimumrates  of  wages  within the meaning of s.  20	(2)  of	 theMinimum Wages Act, 1948. A  writ of certiorari cannot be had as a matter of  course.The  High  Court  is entitled to refuse the writ  if  it  issatisfied that there was no failure of justice.	 The SupremeCourt declines to interfere, in appeal, with the  discretionof the High Court unless it is satisfied that the justice ofthe case requires such interference.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 279 and 280of 1955.Appeal from the Judgment and Order dated July 7 1953, of theAssam High Court in Civil Rules Nos. 147 and 148 of 1952,47360C.   K. Dophtary, Solicitor-General of India, P. K. Goswami,S.  N. Mukherji and B. N. Ghosh, for the appellants in	bothappeals.Purshottam Tricumdas and Naunit Lal, for respondent No. 2 inC.A. No. 280/56.Naunit Lal, for respondent No. I in both Appeals.1956.  December 21.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyBHAGWATI J.-,These two appeals with certificates under	Art.133  (1)  (c)  of the Constitution are	directed  against  ajudgment of the High Court of Judicature in Assam dismissingthe  appellants' application under Art. 226 challenging	 theorders	-of  the  first respondent Shri B.  L.	Sen,  DeputyCommissioner, Sibsagar, whereby he allowed the	applicationsfiled  on behalf of the labourers employed in the  Teok	 TeaEstate	and  the Dalim Tea Estate under section	 20  of	 theMinimum	 Wages	Act,  1948 (Act	 XI  of	 1948),	 hereinafterreferred to as the Act.On  March 11, 1952, the Government of Assam, in exercise  ofthe powers conferred by s. 3 read with sub-s. (2) of s. 5 ofthe Act issued the following notification:" No. GLR. 352/51/56.-In exercise of the powers conferred bysection	 3  read with sub-section (2) of section  5  of	 theMinimum	 Wages	Act,  1948 (XI of  1948),  as  amended,	 theGovernor  of  Assam,  having considered the  advice  of	 thecommittee  appointed under clause (a) of sub-section (1)  ofsection 5 of the said Act, is pleased to fix minimum  wages,which will come into force with effect from the 30th  March,1952,  consisting of basic wages and dearness  allowance  interms  of  clause (1) of sub-section 1 of section 4  of	 thesaid  Act, at the rates as specified in the schedule  heretoannexed payable to employees employed in tea plantations  inthe different districts of Assam.2.   These rates are exclusive of concessions enjoyed by theworkers	 in  respect  of supplies of  foodstuffs  and  otheressential   commodities	 and  other  amenities	which	willcontinue unaffected. -The existing			    361tasks and hours of work may continue until further orders.			 SCHEDULE.1.   ORDINARY -UNSKILLED LABOURAdult  male.  Adult female. (16 years & above) (16  years  &above)Basic	   D.A.	     Total.   BasicD.A.Total.wage.	  wage.(p.d.)	  (p.d.)    (p.d.)(p.d.)(p.d.)(p.d.)2. Rest		       Rs.		      Rs.of Assam  As.12/-As.6/-1 /21-As. 11/-As. 5-Valley.By notification No. GLR. 44/51, dated the 16th April,  1952,the  said  Government  introduced the  Minimum	Wages  Ruleswhich, inter alia, provided:"Rule	  24.	 Number	 of  hours  of	work   which   shallconstitute     a normal working day.-(1)  The number of hours which shall constitute     normal working day shall be-(a)in the case of an adult, 9 hours; subject to a  maximumof 48 hours in a week; ..................................................."By another notification No. GLR. 352/51 dated May 12,  1952,the  said  Government  explained  that	the  word  "  may  "mentioned  in  the notification dated March 11,	 1952,	willhave the force of " shall ". The result was that in cl.	 (2)of  the	 said notification, the last sentence ran  as:	"Theexisting  tasks	 and  hours of	work  shall  continue  untilfurther orders.Prior  to the fixation of the minimum wages  (consisting  ofbasic  wages  and  dearness  allowance	as  aforesaid,	 thelabourers  engaged  in	plucking tea leave,%  in  these	 teaestates	 used to be paid basic wages for male  labourers  atas.  8/- per day for plucking 16 seers of green	 leaves	 andfor  female  labourers at as. 6/- per day  for	plucking  12seers  of green leaves.	 This was the work-load or  task  inrespect	 of  which-the basic wages of as. 8/-  and  as.	 6/-respectively  were  paid to these labourers apart  from	 thedearness allowance in addition to such basic wages.  If	 thelabourers  plucked  larger quantities of green	leaves	theyused to be362paid  by way of ticca extra wages at the rate of 6  ps.	 perseer  in excess of 16 seers and 12 seers  respectively.	  Itmay  be noted that -the payment of basic wages on the  abovecomputation also worked out at the rate of 6 ps. per seer ofgreen leaves plucked by the labourers.Even  after  the fixation of the minimum wages by  the	saidnotification, the managers of these tea-estates continued topay to the labourers wages at the rate of 6 ps. per seer  ofgreen leaves plucked by them.  They, however, in view of thefact that as. 12/- per day were fixed as the basic wages forthe male labourers and as.  II /- per day as the basic wagesfor the female labourers, refused to make any extra  paymentto  them  on the basis of 6 ps. per seer  unless  the  greenleaves	plucked	 by  them exceeded 24  seers  and  22  seersrespectively, thus maintaining their old standard of paymenton  the	 basis of 6 ps. per seer.  The	labourers  contendedthat the existing work-load or task at the date of the	saidnotification  was 16 seers for male labourers and  12  seersfor  female labourers and they were entitled to	 such  extrapayment at the rate of 6 ps. per seer for leaves plucked  bythem  in excess of -the 16 seers and 12 seers  respectively.There  was a difference thus in payment, of as. 4/- per	 dayin  the	 case of male labourers and as. 51- per day  in	 thecase of female labourers and they claimed that the  managersof  the tea estates should pay them the basic wages  of	 as.12/per day and as.  I I/- per day respectively for the work-load or task of 16 seers for male labourers and 12 seers forfemale	labourers and extra wages at the rate of 6  ps.	 perseer   of  leaves  plucked  by	them  in  excess  of   thosequantities.This   claim  of  theirs  was  the  subject-matter  of	 theapplications  filed  on	 their	behalf	before	the   DeputyCommissioner,  Sibsagar,  under s. 20(2) of  the  Act.	 Theapplicants  asked  for	directions under  a.  20(3)  to	 themanagers,  of the tea estates for payment of the  differencebetween	 the minimum wages fixed by the Government  and	 thewages  actually paid to them from March 30, 1952, which	 wasthe  date from which the notification came into force.	 Themanagers of the			    363estates contested these applications mainly on two  grounds;viz., (1) that the applications were not maintainable  unders.  20 of the Act, and (2) that there was no fixed  workloador task in respect of plucking for earning daily basic wagesbefore	the introduction of the minimum wages.	 The  DeputyCommissioner,  Sibsagar,  who was  the	authority  appointedunder the Act to hear the claims arising out of the  paymentof less than the minimum rates of wages to these  labourers,entertained  the applications, recorded evidence  and  heardarguments addressed to him by both the parties.As  regards  the  first	 objection, he	held  that,  if	 theapplicants'  version  was  true there was a  clear  case  ofpayment	 of  less  than	 the  minimum  wages  fixed  by	 theGovernment  and the applications were maintainable under  s.20 of the Act.	As regards the second objection, he came  tothe  conclusion	 on the evidence recorded  before  him	thatthere was a work-load or task of 16 seers for male labourersand  12 seers for female labourers in respect of  the  dailybasic  wages of as. 8/- and as. 6/- respectively  earned  bythem  before the fixation of the minimum wages by  the	saidnotification,  that such work-load or task was the basis  ofthe fixation of the minimum wages consisting, inter alia, ofthe  basic wages of as. 12/- per day for male labourers	 andas.   II/-  per	 day  for  female  labourers  and  that	 thelabourers  were,  therefore, entitled to extra	payment	 forgreen  leaves plucked by them in excess of 16 seers  and  12seers  respectively  at	 the rate of 6	ps.  per  seer.	  Heaccordingly ordered that the managers must pay the labourersengaged	 in plucking tea leaves the minimum basic  wages  atthe  rate of as. 12/- per day to the male labourers  for  16seers  of  green leaves and as. 11/- per day to	 the  femalelabourers  for 12 seers of green leaves and extra  wages  atthe  rate  of  6 ps. per seer for green	 leaves	 plucked  inexcess of those quantities.The  managers  of the estates thereupon	 filed	applicationsunder Art. 226 of the Constitution before the High Court  ofJudicature in Assam raising the -same contentions which	 hadbeen  negatived by the Deputy Commissioner,  Sibsagar.	 TheHigh Court dismissed364these  applications and granted the certificates under	Art.133(1)(c) and that is how these appeals come before us.It  is	urged in the first instance  that  the	notificationdated March 11, 1952, fixed only I a minimum time rate'	 andno more.  Under s. 3 (2) of the Act it was competent to	 theGovernment to fix (a) a minimum rate of wages for time	work(called " a minimum time rate"), (b) a minimum rate of wagesfor  piece work (called " a minimum piece rate ") or  (c)  aminimum rate to be applied in the case of employees employedon piece work for the purpose of securing to such, employeesa  minimum  rate of wages on a time work basis (called	"  aguaranteed time rate-") and what was done by the  Governmentwas to fix " a minimum time rate" within the meaning of s. 3(2)  (a)  so that the labourers were to be  paid  the  basicwages mentioned in the Schedule regardless of their out-turnof work.  If this contention is correct, the labourers wouldnot  be	 entitled to any extra wages for the  quantities  ofgreen leaves plucked by them in excess of the 16 seers or 12seers per day which was alleged to be the existing work-loador task at the date of the notification.  It is, therefore',urged that prior to such fixation of minimum wages there wasno  work-load or task for the labourers engaged in  pluckingtea leaves.  This contention is obviously unsound.  Both theDeputy Commissioner, Sibsagar, and the High Court found as afact  that  before  the fixation of the	 minimum  'wages  asabove,	there was a basic work-load or task of 16  seers  ofleaves for the male labourers and 12 seers of leaves for thefemale	labourers.  This was proved by the evidence  of	 theHazira Moharers of these estates and this was recognized  bythe  Government	 itself when it stated in  the	notificationthat  " the existing tasks and hours of work shall  continueuntil further orders." If the minimum basic wages were fixedirrespective  of  existing work-load or task  and  what	 wasfixed  was  "  a minimum time rate "  as  contended  by	 theappellants there was no need whatever to mention this in thenotification.	The direction that the existing workload  ortask was to continue until further orders on the			    365contrary goes to show that the basic wages mentioned in	 theSchedule  were correlated to the existing workload  or	taskand  as.  12/- for the male labourers and as. 11/-  for	 thefemale labourers were fixed in regard to the existing  work-load or task of 16 seers of tea leaves to be plucked by	 themale  labourers and 12 seers of tea leaves to be plucked  bythe female labourers.It is argued that the continuance of the existing  work-loador  task which was thus provided for had no relation to	 thebasic  wages  which  were  fixed for  the  male	 and  femalelabourers respectively but was only intended to prevent	 theemployers  from	 increasing the existing work-load  or	taskwith  a	 view to make up for the increase  in  basic  wages.This argument, however, does not take count of the fact thatthere  was existing at the date of the notification a  work-load or task which was the basis of the payments used to  bemade  to the labourers, the basic wages paid to	 them  beingcalculated  at	the  rate of 6 ps. per seer  of	 tea  leavesplucked	 by  them.  The labourers were thus being  paid	 thebasic  wages  of as. 8/- for male labourers  and  as.  6/forfemale	labourers for the work-load or task of	plucking  16seers  and 12 seers of tea leaves respectively and the	soleintention of the Government in issuing the notification	 wasto  increase these basic wages of as. 8/and as. 6/-  to	 as.12/-  and as.  II/- respectively while maintaining the	samebasic  work-load  or task assigned to the  male	 and  femalelabourers.   If	 the intention was not	to  correlate  thesebasic  wages  to the basic work-load or task  which  alreadyexisted	 and if the same state of affairs was  to  continue,viz., that the labourers would continue to be paid the basicwages  on the computation of 6 ps. per seer of green  leavesplucked	 by them, there was no sense whatever in  increasingthe basic wages from as. 8/- to as. 12/- for male  labourersand  from as. 6/- to as.  II/- for female labourers  as	 wassought	to be done by issuing the notification in  question.The  acceptance	 of the contention of the  appellants  wouldmean  that no advantage whatever was sought to be  conferredby  the	 Government  on the labourers  engaged	in  pluckingleaves in these tea estates which intention can scarcely be366attributed to the Government.  We are, therefore, of opinionthat  what was fixed by the notification was not merely "  aminimum time rate" irrespective of the existing work-load ortask which used to be performed by the labourers- but was a'minimum	 wage  which,  though  fixed  for  time	 work,	 wasnecessarily  correlated to the work-load or task then  beingperformed by these labourers so that whatever extra work wasdone by the labourers in excess of the existing work-load ortask of plucking 16 seers of tea leaves in the case of	malelabourers  and 12 seers of tea leaves in the case of  femalelabourers had to be paid for in accordance with the practicethen prevailing, whether it was based on agreement or  ticcaor  custom, at the rate of 6 ps. per seer.  The	 conclusionsreached	 in  this behalf both by  the  Deputy  Commissioner,Sibsagar,  and	the High Court are, therefore,	correct	 andcannot be challenged.The appellants, however, contend that this is not a case  ofpayment	 of  less than the minimum rates of  wages  and	 theclaims, if any, of the labourers do not fall within s. 20 ofthe Act.  The tea estates in question have never refused  topay and are in fact paying to the labourers the basic  wagesof  as. 12/- per day for male labourers and as.	 II  /-	 perday  for female labourers and the grievance, if any, of	 thelabourers  is that they have not been paid the	extra  wagescalculated  on	the basis of 6 ps. per seer for	 tea  leavesplucked by them in excess of the basic work-load or task  of16  seers  for	male  labourers	 and  12  seers	 for  femalelabourers.  This claim of the labourers, therefore,  amountsto a claim for extra wages over and above the basic wages ofas. 12/- and as.  II/- per day respectively which are  beingpaid  to them and, therefore, is not a claim arising out  ofthe  payment of less than the minimum rates of wages  withinthe  meaning  of  s.  20(1)  of	 the  Act  and	the   DeputyCommissioner,  Sibsagar,  had no jurisdiction  to  entertainsuch claim.Section 20 so far as is material for our purposes provides:" 20.  Claims.-(1)The	appropriate Government may, by notification  in	 theofficial Gazette, appoint any Commissioner			    367for Workmen's Compensation or other officer with  experienceas  a Judge of a Civil Court or as a stipendiary  Magistrateto  be	the Authority to hear and decide for  any  specifiedarea  all  claims arising out of payment of  less  than	 theminimum	 rates	of wages to employees employed or  paid	 in.that area.(2)Where an -employee is paid less than the minimum rates ofwages  fixed  for  his class of work  under  this  Act,	 theemployee himself, or any legal practitioner or any  officialof a registered trade union authorised in writing to act  onhis behalf, or any Inspector, or any person acting with	 thepermission of the Authority appointed under sub-section (1),may  apply  to	such Authority for a  direction	 under	sub.section (3):...............(3)When	  any	application   under   sub-section   (2)	  isentertained, the Authority shall hear the applicant and	 theemployer  or  give them an opportunity of being	 heard,	 andafter  such  further  enquiry  if any  as  it  may  considernecessary,  may, without prejudice to any other	 penalty  towhich the employer may be liable under this Act, direct	 thepayment	 to the employee of the amount by which the  minimumwages  payable	to  him exceed the  amount  actually  paid,,together  with	the  payment of	 such  compensation  as	 theAuthority may think fit, not exceeding ten times the  amountof such excess and the Authority may direct payment of	suchcompensation  in  cases	 where the excess- is  paid  by	 theemployer  to  the  employee  before  the  disposal  of	 theapplication.(6)  Every  direction of the Authority	under  this  sectionshall be final.It -is argued that the authority appointed under s. 20(1) ofthe Act is invested with the powers of hearing and  decidingclaims	arising out of the payment of less than the  minimumrates  of wages and is authorised to hear the applicant	 andthe  employer  or give them an opportunity of  being  heard,and,  after  such  further  enquiry,  as  it  may   considernecessary,  to	give directions under s. 20(3)	of  the	 Actwhich directions are final and not subject to any appeal or368revision by any higher authority.  Such drastic powers couldnot  have  been	 meant	to  be	exercised  when	 there	 arecomplicated questions of law or fact but could be  exercisedonly  in cases where the, quantum of minimum wages fixed  bythe  notification  in question could be	 determined  by	 theauthority  on a plain reading of the terms,  thereof.	Thenand  -then  only would the authority  have  jurisdiction  toentertain  such	 claims and give the  necessary	 direction,%having	the  attribute of finality.  In	 the  instant  casesbefore	us,  not only did the  matters	involve	 complicatedquestions  of fact which required recording of	evidence  bythe authority but they also involved the construction of thenotification which was by no means felicitously worded.	 Theexisting  tasks which were to continue until further  orderswere not at all patent and if the determination thereof	 hadto be made by the authority appointed under s. 20(1) of	 theAct,  it  would involve, in cases of dispute,  recording  ofconsiderable evidence and an adjudication of the same  aftera  consideration  of  the  arguments  advanced	before	 theauthority by both the parties.There is in the instant cases moreover a further  difficultyand  it is that there are two rival contentions	 which	can,with  equal force, be urged by the respective parties.	 Theappellants contend that they have all throughout been payingto  the	 laborers,  after the date of  the  notification  inquestion,  basic wages at the rate of as. 12/- per  day	 formale  labourers	 and  as.  1 1 /- per  day  for	 the  femalelabourers  and there is no instance which has been cited  onbehalf	of  the respondents where, anything  less  then	 theminimum	 basic wages thus fixed by the Government  has	everbeen  paid.  The claim of the labourers comes to  this	thatthey  have not been paid the extra wages for plucking  greenleaves in excess of the basic work-load or task of 16  seersand  12	 seers	respectively.  Such claim  for	extra  wagescertainly  does	 not amount to a claim arising	out  of	 thepayment of less than the minimum rates of wages.  It is,  onthe other hand, contended on behalf of the respondents	thatthe  basic wages of as. 12/. per day for male labourers	 andas.  II/- per			    369day  for female labourers fixed under the  notification	 arecorrelated  -to the existing work-load, or task of  pluckinggreen leaves weighing 16 Beers and 12 seers respectively andif they are entitled to the payment of these basic wages  ontheir  putting forward that much quantity of work, the	non-payment by the managers.of these tea' estates to them of anyextra  wages on the computation of 6 ps. per extra seer	 un-less  they  plucked 24 seers and 22 seers  of  green  leavesrespectively  is  tantamount to nonpayment of  the;  minimumbasic  wages of as. 12/- and as. 11/- respectively as  fixedin the notification."We do not, propose to decide this question of	jurisdictionas  in	the  instant  cases we	have,  in  addition  to	 thedetermination  of  the Deputy  Commissioner,  Sibsagar,	 theadjudication of the main disputes between the parties by theHigh  Court itself.  I Whatever infirmities  might  possiblyhave   attached	  to  the  orders  passed  by	the   DeputyCommissioner,	Sibsagar,   on	 the  score   of   want	  ofjurisdiction, we feel that having regard to the circumstancethat  the matters have been pending since  September,  1952,right up to the end of the year 1956, no useful purpose willbe  served by our interfering at this stage, as	 the  DeputyCommissioner, Sibsagar, and the High Court both came to	 thesame  conclusion, a conclusion which we also  have  endorsedabove, that the labourers are entitled to be paid the  basicwages of as. 12/-per day,for male labourers and as. 11/- perday  for  female  labourers for the work.:load	or  task  ofplucking 16 seers and 12 seers of green leaves	respectivelyand--  they are -entitled to extra wages for every  seer  ofgreen  leaves  plucked	by.  them I  over  and	above  thesequantities  of 16 seers and 12 ,seers respectively, at	the.computation of 6 Ps. per seer.There  are  moreover  special  reasons	why  we	 should	 notinterfere  with	 the  orders  of  the  Deputy  Commissioner,Sibsagar,  in these appeals.  The matters do not come to  usby  way	 of appeal directly from the orders  of	 the  DeputyCommissioner, Sibsagar.	 They were the subject, in the firstinstance, of proceedings under Art. 226 of the	Constitutionin the High Court370of  Assam.   Proceedings  by way of certiorari	are  not  ofcourse	".  (Vide  Halsbury's  Laws  of	 England',  HailshamEdition, Vol. 9, para 1480 and 1481, pp. 877-878).  The HighCourt  of Assam had the power to refuse the writs if it	 wassatisfied that there was no failure of justice, and in theseappeals which are directed, against the orders of the  High.-Court	in applications under Art. 226, we could  refuse  tointerfere  unless we are satisfied that the justice of	the,case  requires it.  But we are not so satisfied. We  are  ofopinion	 that, having regard to the merits which  have	beenconcurrently foundint favour of the respondents both by	 theDe-Duty	 Commissioner,,	 Sibsagar, and the High	 (Court,  weshould decline to interfere.This being the point of substance which has been decided  infavour	of the respondents, we are of the opinion  that	 theappeals are liable to be dismissed.  We accordingly  dismissthem but having regard to the particular circumstances whichwe  have adverted to before, we order that each	 party	willbear and pay its own costs of these appeals.Appeals dismissed.