PETITIONER:THE COMMISSIONER OF SALES-TAX,EASTERN DIVISION, NAGPUR	Vs.RESPONDENT:HUSENALI ADAMJI AND CO.DATE OF JUDGMENT:21/04/1959BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR  887		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 702 CITATOR INFO : R	    1963 SC1207	 (40) RF	    1970 SC1756	 (10) D	    1976 SC 410	 (13) RF	    1977 SC 879	 (24) E&R	    1990 SC1753	 (14)ACT:Sales Tax-Contract of sale-Construction-Unascertained goods-Levy  of tax on goods sent by rail-Place where	property  ingoods Passes-Place of appropriation on delivery-Indian	Saleof  Goods  Act, 1930 (III of 1930), ss. 4, 18, 23,  33,	 39-Central	 Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act, 1947 (C.   P.  &Berar XXI of 1947), S. 2(g), Explanation II.HEADNOTE:The  respondent	 company was a dealer  in  matchwood  calledsawar  " and his place of business was situate in Chanda  inthe  erstwhile Central Provinces.  Pursuant to an  agreementbetween	 the  respondent  and a match  factory,	 the  formerloaded	diverse	 quantities  of " sawar "  logs	 on  railwaywagons and despatched the same by rail from Chanda and otherrailway	 stations in the Central Provinces to  Ambernath,  atown  in the erstwhile Province of Bombay.  Under cl.  4  Ofthe  agreement the goods to be supplied under  the  contractshall  be despatched by the contractor from certain  railwaystations within the Central Provinces, while cl. 2  reservedthe  right of the consignee to examine the goods on  arrivalat.   Ambernath and to reject the same if they, were  found,in  the opinion of the factory manager, not to conform	withthe specifications.  Clause 6 provided that the goods  shallbe  measured under the supervision of the  factory's  repre-sentative, the decision of the factory manager at  Ambernathbeing binding on the contractor, and-by cl. 7 the prices  ofthe  goods  shall be " F. O.R. Ambernath ".  The  course  ofdealings between the parties was that on arrival of the logsat  Ambernath  the logs were inspected and measured  by	 thefactory	 manager  and the prices, calculated at	 the  agreedrates,	were paid to the respondent's agent at Bombay.	 Thequestion  was as to when and where the property in the	logspassed from the respondent to the consignee and whether	 therespondent was liable to pay sales tax under the  provisionsof the Central Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act, 1947.	  Atthe date when the agreement was entered into, the logs	wereunascertained  goods.	There was also no evidence  that  atthat  date the particular logs delivered thereunder were  inthe  Central  Provinces in the shape of logs  at  all.	 Thesales tax department levied the tax on the respondent on thegrounds,  inter	 alia,	that (1) the property  in  the	logspassed from the respondent to the factory consignee under S.23 Of the Indian Sale of Goods Act, 1930, when the logs wereloaded in the wagons at railway stations within the  CentralProvinces and the railway703receipts taken in the name of the factory were forwarded  tothe  latter, and that (2) in any case, as the logs  were  inthe Central Provinces at the date when the contract for salewas made, the transfer in them must be deemed to have  takenplace  there under Explanation II to S. 2(g) Of the  CentralProvinces and Berar Sales Tax Act, 1947.Held : (1) that on a proper construction of the contract  asa whole the intention of the parties was that the respondentwould  send the logs by rail from the different stations  inthe Central Provinces to Ambernath where the factory managerwould inspect, measure and accept the same if in his opinionthey were of the description and quality agreed upon.  Conse-quently, as the respondent sent the logs and left it to	 thefactory to appropriate to the contract such of them as	theyaccepted  as  of  contract  quality  and  description,	 theproperty  in the logs did not pass to the buyer by the	meredelivery  to  the railway for carriage but  passed  only  atAmbernath  when	 the logs were appropriated by	the  factorywith the assent of the seller within the meaning of S. 23 ofthe Indian Sale of Goods Act, 1930.(2)  that Explanation II to s. 2(g) of the Central ProvincesJUDGMENT:because under the Explanation the goods, in respect of whichthe  contract  of  sale is made, must, at the  date  of	 thecontract  be in existence in the Central Provinces, that  isto  say, that the goods must at the date of the contract  bethere  in the form in which they are agreed to be  sold	 andthere was no evidence, in the present case, for this.&CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 13 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJune  29,  1954, of the former Nagpur High  Court  in  Misc.Civil Case No. 219 of 1952.R.   Ganapathy Iyer and D. Gupta, for the appellant.M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India, K. G. Chondke,J. B. Dadachanji and K. K. Raizada, for the respondents.I.   N.	  Shroff,  for	the  Intervener	 (State	 of   MadhyaPradesh).1959.  April 21.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byDAS,  C. J.-This is an appeal by special leave, against	 theorder  of the High Court of Judicature at Nagpur dated	June29, 1954, answering against the704appellant  certain questions referred to it by the Board  ofRevenue	 under	s. 23(1) of the Central	 Provinces  &  BerarSales Tax Act, 1947 (hereinafter referred to as "the  Act").The  reference arose out of an order of assessment  made  onthe respondent for' payment of sales tax for the period June1, 1947, to November 12, 1947, on a taxable turnover of	 Rs.30,067-9-0.The  facts leading up to the present -appeal may shortly  bestated as follows.  The respondent deals in matchwood called"  sawar " (Bombay- Malabaricum).  His place of business  issituate	 at Chanda in the erstwhile Central  Provinces.	  InJanuary	 1948 the respondent entered into an agreement	withthe  Western India Match Co. Ltd., which is popularly  knownand  will  hereinafter be referred to as " WIMCO "  for	 thesupply	of  a minimum quantity of 2,500 tons of	 sawar	logsduring	the season 1947-48.  This agreement is evidenced  byWIMCO's	  letter  dated	 January  7,  1948,  accepting	 andconfirming  it.	 Unfortunately that letter, although a	partof  the record, has not been printed in the Paper Book.	  Itis  common ground, however, that the agreement of  sale	 wassubject to the conditions appearing in a formal contract  inwriting	 dated	March 2, 1945, which is said  to  have	beenrenewed	 from  year to year.  It appears that prior  to	 theexecution  of the last mentioned contract there was  anothercontract  between the respondent and WIMCO which  was  datedOctober 18, 1940.  Evidently that contract was superseded bythe  later  one of March 2, 1945, the terms  and  conditionswhereof were renewed year after year.  It is, therefore, noteasily intelligible why both the contracts were filed beforethe  Sales  Tax authorities and actually  mentioned  in	 thefirst question that was referred to the Hight Court.Both  the contracts have been printed in the Paper Book	 andreference has been made to some of the terms of both of themin  the course of the arguments before us.  The	 reason	 forreferring   to	the  terms  of	the  ,earlier  contract	  ispresumably  to emphasise the variation in the language	usedin  the	 corresponding provisions of the later	contract  asindicative  of	a definite change in the  intention  of	 theparties.  It is, therefore,705as  well  that the relevant clauses of	both  the  contractsshould be set out here for properly following the  argumentsadvanced on both sides.Reference  may first be made to the earlier  contract  datedOctober	 18,  1940.  Clause I sets out	the  specifications,that is to say, the dimensions and quality of the logs to bedelivered  under the contract which need not  be  reproducedhere.  The other material clauses, omitting the	 unnecessaryportions thereof, may now be set out:-"  2.  The Contractor agrees that any logs supplied  by	 himwhich do not conform with the specification herein shall notbe accepted or paid for by the company and he the contractorundertakes to remove all logs so rejected at his own expensefrom  the Company's premises within fifteen days after	dateof  notice to him or his representative from the Company  soto  remove  such logs.	Should the Contractor fail  to	i.e.move such logs from the Company's premises within the periodstipulated  it is hereby mutually agreed that  such  failureshall  be  construed as being the  Contractor's	 consent  torelinquish all claims whatsoever to such rejected logs,	 andthe  Contractor agrees to such logs thereupon  becoming	 theproperty  of the company and that the contractor shall	haveno  claim whatsoever upon the company for payment either  inrespect	 of  the  supply by him of  such  rejected  logs  orarising out of the disposal by the Company of such logs.""  3. The said goods shall be delivered at Ambernath in	 thequantities and at the times hereinafter mentioned, i.e.,"  4. The goods to be supplied under this Contract shall  bedespatched  by the Contractor from Railway Stations  on	 theB.N.R. and G.I.P.R. Sections between the following  Stations:"  5.  Measurements:-The goods under this contract shall  bemeasured under the supervision of the89706Company's  Factory  Manager at Ambernath on arrival  of	 thegoods at the Factory in accordance with thefollowing stipulations:-The Contractor	agrees	to...	 accept the decision of	 theCompany's   Factory  Manager  at  Ambernath  as	 final	 andbinding."The  prices of the logs to be supplied are set out in cl.  6of the contract as "F.O.R. Ambernath ".We  now	 pass  on to the later contract of  March  2,  1945.Clause	1  sets	 out the specifications of the	logs  to  besupplied under the contract in exactly the same language  asin  el.	  I  of the earlier contract.	The  other  materialclauses,  again	 omitting the unnecessary portions,  are  asfollows:-"  2.  The contractor agrees that any logs supplied  by	 himwhich, on arrival at Ambernath, are found in the opinion  ofthe  Company's	Factory	 Manager not  to  conform  with	 thespecifications	herein shall not be accepted or paid for  bythe  Company,  notwithstanding the fact that such  logs	 mayhave  been accepted by the Company's representatives  beforebeing railed to Ambernath."It  may be mentioned here that Ambernath is a place  situatein the erstwhile province of Bombay and outside the  CentralProvinces."  4. The goods to be supplied under this contract shall  bedespatched by the Contractor from railway stations on the B.N.  Railway,  N. S. Railway and G. 1.  P.  Railway  sectionsbetween the following stations.It  is	unnecessary  to set out the names  of  the  stationswhich, it may, however, be stated, are all in the  erstwhileCentral Provinces.  Clause 6 provides:"6.	Measurements:-The  goods under this contract shall be measured  under	 thesupervision  of the Company's representative  in  accordancewith the following stipulations:-707The  contractor	 agrees	 to  accept  the  decision  of	 theCompany's   Factory  Manager  at  Ambernath  as	 final	 andbinding."The prices of the logs to be supplied under the contract arespecified  as " F.O.R. Ambernath " in cl. 7 which  concludeswith the following sentence:" The money so due and payable shall be paid by the  Companyto  the Contractor when the measurements of the	 goods	havebeen  completed	 under	the  supervision  of  the  Company'srepresentative."Pursuant to the agreement between the respondent and  WIMCO,the  former  loaded  diverse quantities	 of  Sawar  logs  onrailway	 wagons	 and  despatched the same  by  railway	fromChanda or other railway stations in the Central Provinces toAmbernath  in the erstwhile province of Bombay	and  outsidethe  Central  Provinces.  It is not disputed  that  on	manyoccasions  the	representative of WIMCO was present  at	 therailway	 station  when the logs were sorted out	 and  loadedinto the wagons.  The statement of the case submitted  alongwith  the reference under s. 23(1) of the Act is  silent  onthe  point as to whether the railway receipts were made	 outwith WIMCO as the consignee; but it is abundantly clear fromthe order of the Assistant Commissioner, Sales Tax, which ispart of the record -and it has not been disputed before	 us-that  "	 the railway receipt which is a	 document  of  titleaccording  to  s. 2(4) of the Indian Sale of  Goods  Act  istaken in the name of the consignee." The course of  dealingsbetween	 the parties also appears to be that, on arrival  ofthe  logs at Ambernath, the consignee buyer WIMCO, paid	 therailway freight and the logs were inspected and measured  byWIMCO's	 Factory Manager and the prices, calculated  at	 theagreed rates, were paid to the respondent's agent at Bombay.There is no doubt that the price of the logs supplied by therespondent to WIMCO under the agreement and accepted by	 thelatter during the period in question amounted to Rs. 30,067-9-0.  The question for our708decision  is  whether the respondent is liable	to  pay	 anysales tax under the Act.It will be convenient at this stage to refer to the relevantprovisions  of	law applicable to the facts  of	 this  case.Section 4 of that Act is the charging section.	According tothis  section safes tax is payable " on all  sales  effectedafter  the commencement of the Act." " Sale " is defined  bys.  2(g) of the Act.  At the relevant period, that  section,omitting  Explanation  1,  which is  not  material  for	 ourpurpose, ran as follows:-"  'Sale'  with all its grammatical variations	and  cognateexpressions means any transfer of property in goods for cashor   deferred  payment	or  other  valuable   consideration,including a transfer of property in goods made in course  ofthe  execution	of  a  contract,  but  does  not  include  amortgage, hypothecation, charge or pledge. .........................................................Explanation II:-Notwithstanding anything to the contrary  inthe  Indian Sale of Goods Act, 1930, the sale of  any  goodswhich are actually in the Central Provinces and Berar at thetime  when  the contract of sale as defined in that  Act  inrespect	 thereof is made, shall, wherever the-said  contractof  sale is made, be deemed for the purpose of this  Act  tohave taken place in the Central Provinces and Berar."The  Act  being	 a  piece  of  legislation  enacted  by	 thelegislature  of the erstwhile Province of Central  Provincesand  Berar, its operation is limited to the  territories  ofthat province.	Therefore, the question arises: Does the sumof  Rs. 30,067-9-0 represent the prices of logs sold by	 therespondent  within  the Central Provinces ? Sale  being	 thetransfer of property in the goods agreed to be sold, we haveto  enquire if the property in the goods which	fetched	 thesale proceeds on which the sales tax is sought to be  leviedwas transferred in the Central Provinces as contemplated  inthe  main definition or if those goods were actually in	 theCentral Provinces at the time when the contract for sale  asdefined in the Sale of Goods Act in respect thereof was madeas required by Explanation II set709out above.  This takes us to the Sale of Goods Act, 1930.Section 4 of the Sale of Goods Act is expressed in the wordsfollowing:-"4.  Sale and agreement to sell:-(I) A contract of  sale  ofgoods  is a contract whereby the seller transfers or  agreesto transfer the property in goods to the buyer for a  price.There  may be a contract of sale between one part-owner	 andanother.(2)  A contract of sale may be absolute or conditional.(3)  Where  under  a contract of sale the  property  in	 thegoods  is  transferred	from the seller to  the	 buyer,	 thecontract  is  called a sale, but where the transfer  of	 theproperty  in the goods is to take place at a future time  orsubject	 to some condition thereafter to be  fulfilled,	 thecontract is called an agreement to sell.(4)  An	 agreement  to	sell becomes a sale  when  the	timeelapses or the conditions are fulfilled subject to which theproperty in the goods is to be transferred." There can be nodoubt  that  the agreement pursuant to which the  logs	weresupplied by the respondent to WIMCO was an agreement to sellwithin	the meaning of the above section.  There is also  nocontroversy  between the parties that at the date when	thisagreement  was	entered into, the  logs	 were  unascertainedgoods.	 The  question is: When did that agreement  to	sellunascertained  goods become a sale and where did  such	saletake place ? In other words, when and where did the propertyin those goods pass from the respondent to WIMCO ?The transfer of property in the goods as between the  sellerand  buyer  is dealt with in Ch.  III of the Sale  of  GoodsAct.  Section 18 of the Sale of Goods Act runsthus :" 18.  Goods must be ascertained:-Where there is a  contractfor  the  sale of unascertained goods, no  property  in	 thegoods is transferred to the buyer unless and until the goodsare ascertained."Passing over ss. 19 to 22 which (except as to sub-s. (3)  ofs. 19) apparently apply to contracts for the sale of710specific  or  ascertained  goods, we come  to  s.  23  whichprovides :-"  23.	Sale of unascertained goods and appropriation  :-(I)Where  there is a contract for the sale of unascertained  orfuture	goods by description and goods of  that	 descriptionand in a deliverable state are unconditionally	appropriatedto the contract, either by the seller with the assent of thebuyer  or  by the buyer with the assent of the	seller,	 theproperty  in the goods thereupon passes to the buyer.	Suchassent may be expressed or implied, and may be given  eitherbefore or after the appropriation is made.(2)  Delivery	to  carrier:-Where,  in	 pursuance  of	 thecontract, the seller delivers the goods to the buyer or to acarrier or other bailee (whether named by the buyer or	not)for  the purpose of transmission to the buyer, and does	 notreserve	 the  right  of	 disposal,  he	is  deemed  to	haveunconditionally appropriated the goods to the contract."Reference  may next be made to s. 33 and s. 39(1).   Section33 says:-"  33.	 Delivery :-Delivery of goods sold may	be  made  bydoing anything which the parties agreed shall be treated  asdelivery or which has the effect of putting the goods in thepossession of the buyer or of any person authorised to	holdthem on his behalf"Section 39(1) runs as follows:-" 39.  Delivery to carrier or wharfinger:-(1)  Where,  in pursuance of a contract of sale, the  selleris  authorised or required to send the goods to	 the  buyer,delivery  of  the goods to a carrier, whether named  by	 thebuyer or not, for the purpose of transmission to the  buyer,or delivery of the goods to wharfinger, for safe custody, isprima  facie  deemed  to be delivery of	 the  goods  to	 thebuyer."Keeping	 the provisions of the above quoted sections of	 thetwo  Acts  in  view, we have to decide when  and  where	 theproperty in the logs passed from the respondent to WIMCO.The  Assistant	Commissioner  of  Sales	 Tax  assessed	 therespondent  to	-a tax of Rs. 939-10-0 and  imposed  on	 therespondent a penalty of Rs. 100 under s. 25 of711the Act for not having submitted its return in contraventionof r. 19 of the Central Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Rules.The Assistant Commissioner took the view that the loading ofthe  logs  into the wagons at railway  stations	 within	 theCentral Provinces and the taking out of the railway receiptsin the name of the consignee, WIMCO, and the delivery of thesame to WIMCO, had the effect of putting the latter in	pos-session of the goods as laid down in s. 39(1) of the  IndianSale  of Goods Act and he accordingly held that the sale  ofthe goods took place at Chanda and other railway stations inthe   Central	Provinces  and	that   the   assessee	was,consequently, liable to pay the sales tax under the Act.The  respondent	 preferred  an	appeal	to  the	 Sales	 TaxCommissioner  who upheld the Assistant Commissioner's  orderof  assessment as well as of the penalty.  He  laid  greateremphasis  on Explanation II to s. 2(g) of the Act  as  over-riding	the  provisions of the Indian Sale of Goods  Act  inrespect	 of  the transfer of property in the logs  and	heldthat as the' logs were in the Central Provinces at the	datewhen  the contract for sale was made, the transfer  in	themmust  be  deemed  to  have  taken  place  there	 under	thatExplanation.  He also agreed with the Assistant Commissionerthat the delivery of the logs to the railway company and thesending	 of  the documents of title to WIMCO had,  under  s.39(1) of the Sale of Goods Act, the effect of putting  WIMCOin possession of the logs.The  respondent	 preferred  what in form appeared  to  be  asecond	appeal to the Board of Revenue.	 As, however,  therecould  be  no second appeal under s. 22(4) of the  Act,	 theBoard treated the memorandum of appeal as an application forrevision under sub-s. 5 of s. 22 of the Act read with r. 57.Both  the members of the, Board of Revenue came to the	sameconclusion, namely, that the sales were liable to assessmentunder  the  Act,  but the reasonings adopted  by  them	weresomewhat different.  Shri Shrivastava, a member of the Boardof Revenue, took the view that as soon as logs answering thedescription  agreed  upon were brought to  the	railhead  atChanda and sorted out and712loaded	in  the	 wagons	 in  the  presence  of	WIMCO's	 re-presentatives,	there  was an implied contract	of  sale  ofspecific and ascertained goods, as evidenced by the  conductof  parties  and  the property in  each	 consignment  passedimmediately  from  the respondent to WIMCO  at	the  railwaystation	  in  the  Central  Provinces  where  such   impliedcontracts were made.  The Chairman of the Board of  Revenue,however,  took the view that the contract of sale  was	madeoutside	 the Central Provinces, namely, in Bombay and  that,under the Sale of Goods Act, the property in the logs passedto  WIMCO in Ambernath outside the province but that as	 thelogs  were in the Central Provinces, either in the  form  oflogs  or  in the form immediately preceding,  namely,  treesstanding  on the land which had been impliedly agreed to  besevered from the land before actual sale, Explanation II  tos.  2(g) of the Act applied and the sale must,	accordingly,-be deemed to have taken place within the Central  Provincesand, must, therefore, be liable to sales tax under the Act.The Board rejected the application but remitted the penalty.On  the application of the respondent under s. 23(1) of	 theAct,  the  Board of Revenue submitted to the  High  Court  astatement of case raising the following questions:-" (1) Did the agreements of the kind on record the one dated18-10-40  and the other dated 2-3-45constitute contracts  ofsale-either  express  or implied -in respect of	 sawar	woodsupplied by the assessee to WIMCO?(2)  If the answer to question No. I be in the	affirmative,did the contracts relate to specific or ascertained goods orto unascertained or future goods?(3)  Did  the  property	 in  the  goods	 pass  to  WIMCO  byconsignment simpliciter at different railway stations withinthis  province, or did it pass at Ambernath when  the  goodswere approved as provided in the contract ?(4)  Was reliance on the definition of I goods' contained ins.  2(7)  of  the Sale of Goods Act  in	 order	in  applyingExplanation II to s. 2(g) of the Sales Tax713Act in cases, where the goods sold were in the form of treesstanding  on  the land in this province at the time  of	 thecontract of sale?"In its judgment dated June 29, 1954, the High Court took theview  that the sales in question did not take place  in	 theCentral	 Provinces  and Berar and consequently	were  not  "sales  " within the meaning of the Act and,  therefore,	 notliable	to tax.	 It gave the following answers to the  abovequestions:-" Our answers to the questions referred for decision are :-(1)  The  agreement in question was an express agreement  tosell sawar logs to WIMCO.  There was neither an express	 noran implied contract each time goods were railed.(2)  The-contract was not for delivery of specific goods butof unascertained or future goods by description.(3)  The property in the goods did not pass to the buyer  bythe  delivery  to the railway for carriage.   It  passed  atAmbernath where the goods were appropriated by the buyer  tothe contract with the assent of the seller.(4)  The  word ' goods ' in the definition of I sale in	 theSales	Tax  Act  must	be  interpreted	 according  to	 itsdefinition  in s. 2(d) of the Act and not according  to	 thedefinition  in	s.  2(7)  of the Sale  of  Goods  Act.	 Thestanding sawar trees are not goods within the meaning of theformer Act."The  effect of the answers being to nullify  the  assessmentorder,	the Commissioner of Sales Tax has come up on  appealbefore us after obtaining special leave of this Court.The  answers  to  the  first two  questions  have  not	beenquestioned before us.  The main arguments have centred roundthe  answers to questions 3 and 4. The answer to question  3turned on the construction placed by the High Court on s. 23of  the	 Sale of Goods Act.  After quoting s. 23,  the	HighCourt observed as follows:-"  After  sorting the logs with the assent  of	the  buyer'srepresentative, the applicant appropriated the90714logs  to  the  contract	 by  railing  them  to	the  buyer'sdestination  at	 Ambernath.  The statement of  the  case  issilent	on the point whether the railway receipts were	madeout  with the Company as the consignee.	 The assent  of	 therepresentative	was provisional and was not binding  on	 theCompany.    Under  the	agreement  it  did  not	  agree	  tounconditionally appropriate the logs to the contract as soonas they were delivered to the railway with the assent of itsrepresentative for carriage to Ambernath.  It had  expresslyreserved  its  right to reject the goods on  examination  atAmbernath.   The  agreement  therefore was  that  the  buyershould, with the assent of the seller, appropriate the goodsto the contract at Ambernath.  The appropriation under s. 23was  not complete till the goods reached Ambernath and	wereappropriated   by   the	 Company  to  the   contract.	 Theappropriation of the goods by the applicant at the railheadswas  conditional  on  their  acceptance	 by  the  buyer	  atAmbernath.  There is nothing in the statement of the case toshow that the logs were not so appropriated.  Therefore, theproperty in the logs passed to the buyer at Amber nath."The learned counsel for the department appearing in  supportof  this  appeal contends that property in the	logs  passedfrom  the respondents to WIMCO under s. 23 when	 sawar	logswere brought to the railway station and loaded in the  wagonand  the  railway receipts taken in the name of	 WIMCO	wereforwarded  to  the  latter.   There  was  an   unconditionalappropriation	of  the	 goods	to  the	 contract   by	 therespondent.  There was, according to learned counsel, assenton  the	 part of WIMCO to this appropriation  in  two  ways,namely,	 (a) expressly given by its representative  who	 waspresent	 at the railway station, and (b) impliedly given  byWIMCO  by having agreed in advance that the goods should  bedespatched  by rail from the stations mentioned in cl. 4  ofthe  agreement,	 all of which were situate  in	the  CentralProvinces.There  is  no  doubt-and indeed it  has	 been  categoricallyconceded  by  learned counsel for the department  -that	 thecontract   was	 for  sale  of	 unascertained	 goods	 andconsequently the property in them could715not,  under  s.	 18, pass unless and until  the	 goods	wereascertained.   His contention is that logs of  the  contractquality	  and	description  having   been   unconditionallyappropriated  by  the  respondent to  the  contract  withoutreserving  to itself any right of disposal and WIMCO  havingexpressly  through  its representative or impliedly  by	 thevery  terms of the contract assented to such  appropriation,property  in them passed under s. 23 from the respondent  toWIMCO  at the railway stations within the Central  Provincesas soon as the sawar logs were loaded on the wagons and	 therailway receipts were taken out in the name of WIMCO.  It issaid  that  so	far  as	 the  respondent  is  concerned	  itunconditionally	 appropriated  the  logs  to  the  contract.Seeing	that they were actually accepted by WIMCO  on  theirarrival at Ambernath it is quite clear that the logs were ofthe  contract quality and description.	The  only  question,according  to learned counsel for the department  therefore,is whether there was assent of WIMCO to such  appropriation.It has been found as a fact that WIMCO's representative	 wasnot  present  on all occasions when sawar logs	used  to  beloaded on the railway wagons.  There is no evidence that  hewas actually present when these particular sawar logs,	withthe  sale proceeds of which we are concerned, were put	intothe  wagons.   Nor  is there an iota of	 evidence  that	 therepresentative of WIMCO had any authority to. bind WIMCO  byany assent.  In view of these difficulties, learned  counselfor the department did not press the case of express  assentof the representative of WIMCO and concentrated on the	caseof  implied assent.  It is quite clear from the language  ofs.  23 itself, that the appropriation may be by	 the  sellerwith the assent of the buyer or by the buyer with the assentof the seller, that assent to representation may be  expressor implied and that it may be given after the  appropriationor  in advance before such appropriation.   Learned  counselfor the department lays strong emphasis on the provision  ofcl.  4	in  the	 contract that	the  sawar  logs  should  bedespatched by rail from certain stations within the  CentralProvinces and contends that delivery by the seller of  sawarlogs of the contract quality and716description to the railways in terms of the contract withoutthe  reservation of any right of disposal has the effect  ofpassing	 the  property	therein	 to  WIMCO  at	the  railwaystations in the Central Provinces under s. 23 as well as  ofconstituting delivery of them at the railway stations  underss. 33 and 39(1).  The argument is prima facie sound  unlessthere  be some other provision in the contract	to  negativethis  conclusion,  e. g., that the logs must be	 carried  toAmbernath  and delivered there (See The Badische Anilin	 andSoda Fabrik v. The Basle Chemical Works, Bindschedler  (1)).Learned counsel for the department does not urge that if thematter	had  to	 be  decided on the  terms  of	the  earliercontract dated October 18, 1940, he could properly say	thatthere was nothing in the contract negativing the idea of thepassing	  of  property	in  the	 logs  within  the   CentralProvinces.  The cumulative effect of the provisions of el. 2that the property in the rejected logs would' pass to  WIMCOupon the failure of the respondent to remove the same  afterrejection,  of	el. 3 that the goods shall be  delivered  atAmbernath in the presence of WIMCO's Factory Manager and  ofel. 6 providing that the prices will be " F.O.R. Ambernath "clearly	 militate against the theory of passing of  propertyimmediately  on	 the  goods being loaded  into	the  wagons.While	not  contesting	 this,	learned	 counsel   for	 thedepartment  urges that there is no such	 contrary  intentionindicated  in  the later contract of March  2,	1945,  whichreally	governs	 the  case.  We are  unable-to	accept	thisdistinction  as of any substance.  It is true that  in	thislater  contract cl. 2 is differently worded and there is  noexpress	 provision  that the goods should  be  delivered  atAmbernath.    There   are,   nevertheless,   several   otherprovisions in the later contract indicating that property inthe  logs loaded in the wagon will not pass to	WIMCO  untilafter  the  goods  arrive at Ambernath	and  are  inspected,measured and accepted by WIMCO's Factory Manager.  Clause  2of  the later contract quite clearly reserves the  right  ofWIMCO to examine the goods on arrival and to reject the sameif  they are found, in the opinion of its  Factory  Manager,not to(1)  [1898] A.C. 200,717conform with the specifications.  This reservation, which ismade  notwithstanding the fact that the logs may  have	beenaccepted  by its representative before they were  railed  toAmbernath,  clearly indicates that the so called  acceptanceby  the	 representative	 was  not  final  but  was  entirelytentative  and	subject to approval of the logs	 by  WIMCO'sFactory	 Manager  at Ambernath after  their  arrival.	Thiscircumstance  certainly	 militates against the	property  inthem having already 'passed to WIMCO at the railway stationsin the Central Provinces.  The provisions of cl. 6 that	 thegoods  shall  be measured under the supervision	 of  WIMCO'srepresentative,	 the  decision	of its	Factory	 Manager  atAmbernath being binding on the respondent and of el. 7	thatthe  prices  shall  be " F.O.R. Ambernath  "  and  shall  bepayable	 after	such  measurement of  the  logs	 by  WIMCO'srepresentative	further	 reinforce the conclusion  that	 theintention  of  the parties was that property  in  the  goodsshall  not pass until the logs arrive at Ambernath  and	 arethere  inspected,  measured and accepted by WIMCO.   In	 ourjudgment  the prima facie case of what might have  been	 theappropriation  of the logs by the respondent by	 loading  onthe wagons logs of the contract quality and description withthe assent of WIMCO given in .advance by the terms of el.  4is effectively displaced by the provisions of cls. 2, 6	 and7  of the later contract which clearly indicate	 a  contraryintention.   On a proper construction of the contract  as  awhole  the  intention of the parties clearly  was  that	 therespondent  would send the logs by rail from  the  differentstations in the Central Provinces to Ambernath where WIMCO'sFactory	 Manager would inspect, measure and accept the	sameif  in his opinion they were of the description and  qualityagreed	upon.  In other words the respondent sent  the	logsand left it to WIMCO to appropriate to the contract such  ofthem   as   they  accepted  as	of  contract   quality	 anddescription.  The respondent, therefore, gave in advance itsassent	to WIMCO's appropriation of the goods at  Ambernath.Therefore, the decision of the High Court cannot be assailedbut must be accepted as well-founded in fact and in law.Learned counsel for the department then falls back718upon the Argument founded on Explanation- II to s. 2(g)	 and'argues,  somewhat halfheartedly, that	notwithstanding	 theprovisions of the Sale of Goods Act regarding the passing ofproperty  in the goods the sale under consideration must  bedeemed,	 in  the light of that Explanation,  to	 have  takenplace  within  the Central Provinces.  The question  of	 theconstitutional	validity of that Explanation was not  raisedin  the	 High Court and indeed, in view of the	decision  ofthis  Court  in Poppatlal Shah v. State of  Madras  (1)	 andother'	cases, cannot now be raised and we must	 proceed  onthe  footing  that  Explanation 11 did	not  transgress	 thelegislative competency of the Legislature which enacted	 thesame.  It will be noticed that Explanation II can apply onlyif the goods " in respect of " which the contract of sale isentered into are, at the date of such contract, actually  inthe  Central Provinces.	 Learned counsel for the  departmenturges that the logs delivered must have been in existence inthe  Central Provinces either in the shape of ';logs  or  inthe shape of standing timber.  There is no evidence that  atthe  date  when	 the  agreement	 for  sale  was	 made,	 theparticular  logs  delivered thereunder were in	the  CentralProvinces in the shape of logs at all.	Learned counsel saysthat, at any rate, they must have been in existence there inthe  shape of standing timber.	Apart from  anything  else,,the  agreement here was riot " in respect of " any  standingtimber	and  there  was no provision  in  the  agreement  asbetween	 the  respondent  and WIMCO  for  severance  of	 thestanding timber before sale under that agreement.  In  orderto attract Explanation II the goods, in respect of which thecontract of sale is made, must, at the date of the  contractbe  in existence in the Central Provinces, that is  to	say,that the goods must at the date of the contract be there  inthe form in which they are agreed to be sold.  There is	 notan  iota of evidence on that point.  In our judgment,  thereis no force in this alternative argument.The result, therefore, is that this appeal is dismissed withcosts.Appeal dismissed.(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 677.719