PETITIONER:M/S.  PIYARE LAL ADISHWAR LAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX, DELHI.DATE OF JUDGMENT:26/04/1960BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.DAS, S.K.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1960 AIR  997		  1960 SCR  (3) 669 CITATOR INFO : R	    1963 SC 683	 (7,21,26,30) R	    1965 SC 360	 (9) D	    1966 SC 798	 (10,12) RF	    1968 SC 678	 (2,4) R	    1969 SC 893	 (9) R	    1971 SC1454	 (9) RF	    1973 SC 637	 (7)ACT:Income	    Tax-Agreement     between	  Treasurer	 andBank-Construction-Treasurer,   whether	servant	  of   Bank-Treasurer  furnishing  security of  joint  family  property-Emoluments  received by Treasurer, whether income  of  jointfamily-lndian Income-tax Act, 1922 (II of 1922), ss. 7, 10.HEADNOTE:S was the karta of the Hindu undivided family, consisting ofhimself	 and  his  younger brother.  Their  father  was	 theTreasurer  of  a Bank till his death in	 1950.	 During	 hisfather's lifetime S was employed as an overseer in the	Bankon a salary of Rs. 400 a month, and, subsequently, after hisfather's  death	 he was appointed Treasurer of the  Bank  atDelhi and sixteen other branches of the Bank.  As  Treasurerhe  furnished security to the Bank of certain properties  ofthe  Hindu undivided family.  The agreement dated  September19,  1950,  between  him and the Bank, showed  that  he	 wasappointed Treasurer on a monthly salary of Rs. 1,75o and  hewas  also  paid certain sums of money for  guaranteeing	 theconduct	 of  the  cashiers and other  members  of  the	CashDepartment  Staff which he was required to employ  with	 theapproval  of  the Bank.	 He was to carry out his  duties  asdirected  by the Bank and if in the discharge of his  dutieshe  caused any loss to the Bank he was liable to  make	goodthe loss.  He was not required to serve personally, but	 hisservices  could	 be terminated by notice.  In  the  year  ofaccount	 1950-51  he  received from the Bank a	sum  of	 RS.23,286 as Treasurer.  The Income-tax authorities  consideredthat  this sum was not the individual income of S as  salarybut was part of the income of the Hindu undivided family andtaxed  if  as  such on the grounds (1)	that  the  agreementbetween S and the Bank showed that the relationship  betweenthem  was  not	one of master and servant  but	that  of  anemployer and independent contractor and that the  emolumentsreceived  by  the  Treasurer  were  profits  and  gains	  ofbusiness, (2) that S was appointed Treasurer not on  accountof  any personal qualification but because his father was  aTreasurer  of  the  Bank before him, and  (3)  that  as	 thesecurity  furnished  by	 S  came out  of  the  joint  familyproperties,  the emoluments could not be said to  have	beenearned	 without  detriment  to	 the  family  property	 andtherefore were part of the Hindu undivided family:Held,  (1)  That on the true construction of  the  agreementdated September 19, 1950 the Treasurer was a servant of	 theBank.Shivanandan Sharma v. The Punjab National Bank Ltd. [1955] 1S.C.R.	1427 and Dhayangadhara Chemical Works Ltd. v.  StateOf Saurashtra, [1957] S.C.R. 52, relied on.(2)  That in view of the fact that there was nothing to showthat  S had received any particular training at the  expenseof the87670family	funds or that his appointment as Treasurer  was	 theresult	of any outlay or expenditure of or detriment to	 thefamily	property,  but	on  the	 other	hand  his   previousexperience  as	an overseer of the Bank	 was  indicative  ofpersonal fitness for his appointment as Treasurer, the	merefact he had lodged joint family property by way of  securitywould not make his earnings as Treasurer part of the  incomeof the Hindu undivided family.The  use  of the words " risk of " and " detriment to  "  inGokul  Chand  v. Firm Hukum Chand Nath Mal, (1921)  L.R.  48I.A. 162, explained.Commissioner of Income-tax v. Kalu Babu Lal Chand, [1960]  1S.C.R. 32o, distinguished.Accordingly, the emoluments received by S were in the natureof salary and therefore assessable under s. 7 of the  IndianIncome-tax  Act,  1922, and not under s. 10 of	the  Act  asprofits and gains of business, and the salary was the incomeof  the	 individual,  S, and not the  income  of  the  Hinduundivided family.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.123 of 1957.Appeal	from the judgment and order dated May 12,  1955,  ofthe Punjab High Court in Civil Reference No. 17/1953.A.   V.	 Viswanatha Sastri, S. N. Andley, J. B.	 Dadachanji,Rameshwar Nath and P. L. Vohra, for the appellants.C.K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, R. Ganapathy Iyerand D. Gupta, for the respondent.1960.  April 26.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byKAPUR,	J.-This is an appeal against the judgment and  orderof  the	 High Court of Punjab made on a reference  under  s.66(1)  of  the Indian Income-tax Act which was	answered  infavour of the Commissioner of Income-tax.  The appellant  isthe assessee-a Hindu undivided family-with Sheel Chandra  asits Karta and the respondent is the Commissioner of  Income-tax.The  appeal  relates to the assessment	year  1951-52.	 Theappellant,  a  Hindu undivided family,	consisted  of  SheelChandra	 and  his Younger brother.  Their  father,  AdishwarLa], upto his death on April 16, 1950, was the Treasurer  ofseveral branches of the Central Bank of India (which in	 thejudgment  will	be  referred to as the	Bank).	 During	 hisfather's lifetime Sheel Chandra was employed as an  Overseerin  the Bank on a salary of Rs. 400 a month.  Sheel  Chandrawas appointed Treasurer of the Bank at Delhi and sixteen671other  branches	 of  the Bank.	As  Treasurer  he  furnishedsecurity  to  the Bank of certain properties  of  the  Hinduundivided   family,  which  consisted  of  title  deeds	  ofimmovable properties in Chandni Chowk, Delhi, and Governmentof  India securities of the value of Rs. 75,000.  The  Hinduundivided  family  owns considerable property.	 Its  incomefrom  house  property alone is Rs. 50,000 per annum  and  itowns  stocks,  shares  and  Government	securities  also  ofconsiderable value.  As Treasurer Sheel Chandra received  inthe  year of account from the Bank a sum of Rs.	 23,286	 andthe  question  for  decision  is whether  this	sum  is	 theindividual  income of Sheel Chandra as salary or it is	partof the income of the Hindu undivided family.  The Income-taxAuthorities  held this sum to be the latter and taxed it  assuch.	The Income-tax Appellate Tribunal in upholding	thisview  held  that  on a proper construction  of	the  writtenagreement between Sheel Chandra and the Bank, the emolumentsreceived by the Treasurer were profits and gains of businessand it further held that as the security furnished by  SheelChandra	 came  out  of the joint family	 proper.  ties,	 theemoluments  could  not be said to have been  earned  withoutdetriment to the family property and therefore were part  ofthe  income of the Hindu undivided family.  At the  instanceof  the appellant the Tribunal referred under s.  66(1)	 thefollowing two questions to the High Court:-(1)" Whether in the facts and circumstances of the case	 andon a true construction of the agreement between the  CentralBank  of  India	 and  Sheel Chandra  the  salary  and  otheremoluments  received  by Sheel Chandra as Treasurer  of	 thesaid Bank are assessable under the head ' salary ' or  underthe head 'Profits and gains of business'."(2)"  Whether  in the facts and circumstances of  the  case,Sheel Chandra's emoluments as Treasurer of the Central	Bankof  India  Ltd. were rightly assessed in the  hands  of	 theHindu  undivided  family  of which  he	is  the	 Karta".Both questions were answered against the appellant.On  a consideration of the various clauses of the  agreementbetween Sheel Chandra and the Bank, the672 High Court held that the relationship between them  was notone  of	 master	 and servant but that  of  an  employer	 andindependent contractor and therefore the emoluments receivedby  Sheel Chandra as Treasurer were not salary	but  profitsand  gains of business.	 As to the second question the	HighCourt was of the opinion that the emoluments were the incomeof the Hindu undivided family because Sheel Chandra was :notappointed Treasurer on account of any personal qualificationbut he was appointed because (a) his father was a  Treasurerof the Bank before him and (b) he had furnished	 substantialsecurity  which	 was  part  of the  property  of  the  Hinduundivided  family.   Against  this judgment  and  order	 theappellant has come in appeal to this Court.The  nature  of the employment of Sheel Chandra	 has  to  begathered  from	the  agreement	dated  September  19,  1950,between him and the Bank.  It shows that on his	 applicationfor  appointment as a Treasurer at Delhi and  sixteen  otherbranches  of the Bank, the Bank appointed him Treasurer	 forthose  branches	 and  he could '  by  mutual  agreement,  beappointed  at  other  branches	in the	Punjab,	 U.  P.	 andRajasthan.  The appointment took effect from April 16, 1950.Sheel  Chandra	undertook  to  perform	the  duties  and  beresponsible as Treasurer of the various branches of the Bankand  was  required to engage and  employ  subordinate  staffcalled	the  Cash Department Staff such	 as  Head  Cashiers,Potdars, Guaranteed Peons, Godown Keepers, Assistant  GodownKeepers,  Chowkidars and Clerks and other persons  necessaryfor  the efficient working of the said offices.	 He had	 thepower  to " control, dismiss and change" this Staff  at	 hispleasure  but he could not engage or transfer any member  ofthe  Staff except with the approval of the Bank and  had  todismiss	 any  such  member if so required  by  the  ManagingDirector of the Bank or Agent of the Office.The  Treasurer and the Cash Department Staff were to do	 andbe responsible for all work in connection with receipts	 andpayments  of  monies and bad to do ouch other  work  as	 wascustomarily done by cashiers673and  shroffs of Banks.	The Treasurer was  also	 responsiblefor  the  correctness  and genuineness of  all	hundies	 andcheques	 bearing signatures and endorsements  in  vernacularand  for genuineness of all signatures and writings  in	 anylanguage  or  character or any	securities,  voucher  deeds,documents  and	writings  which the Treasurer  or  the	CashDepartment  Staff  dealt  with and in case of  any  loss  ordamage arising out of any forged signatures and endorsementson  any	 document  accepted  or	 dealt	with  by  the	CashDepartment  Staff as correct and genuine, the Treasurer	 wasresponsible  to make good the loss.  He was  also  required,when  asked by the Bank, to engage the necessary  staff,  tolook  after  the  goods pledged with the  Bank	and  he	 wasresponsible for the good conduct of such staff.	 It was alsohis  duty  to make enquiries and report upon  the  identity,credit and solvency of persons dealing with the Bank and wasliable	 for   any   loss  arising   out   of	any   wilfulmisrepresentation  or  negligence in the enquiry  or  reportmade  by him or his representative in any matter arising  inthe  course  of employment.  He or his	representative	werealso  required, when asked, to give reliable information  inregard to hundi business but he was not responsible for	 anydamage	or loss arising therefrom.  He also  undertook	whenrequired  by  the  Officers of the Bank to  value  and	givecorrect	 certificate in regard to the genuineness,  finenessand weight of bullion and gold ornaments and other valuablespledged	 with the Bank.	 He was responsible for any loss  tothe  Bank  in  case  of	 any  wilful  misrepresentation	  ornegligence in regard to this branch of his duty.  He furtherundertook  to  supply to the Bank as many  persons  as	wererequired at the various branches of the Bank which the	Bankopened in future.  He undertook responsibility for the	safecustody of the monies and ornaments and other valuables keptwith  or  pledged  with the Bank as also for  the  bills  ofexchange,  promissory  notes, hundies or  other	 securities.Besides	 this  he was required to satisfy the Agent  or	 theManager	 of the branch that all the monies of the  Bank	 andother valuable securities which had not been duly674used  and  accounted  for were intact and  in  their  properplaces.Sheel Chandra was paid a salary of Rs. 1,750 per mensem	 forall  the branches he was employed in.  Besides this  he	 waspaid  certain sums of money for guaranteeing the conduct  ofGodown	Keepers,  Assistant Godown  Keepers  and  Chowkidarssupplied  by  him.   If the branches  or  out-agencies	wereincreased he was to receive such increase in salary as mightmutually be agreed upon.  On the closing of any branch therewas  to	 be a corresponding reduction in  the  remuneration.The  members  of the Cash Department Staff were to  be	paidtravelling allowance according to the rules of the Bank.  Inaddition  to the remuneration above mentioned the  Treasureror  his	 authorised representative when	 visiting  differentbranches  were	to  get actual railway	fare.	The  variousmembers	 of the Cash Department Staff were to be paid  theirsalary	directly by the Bank but the Bank was not  bound  topay  more  than the scale laid down by	it.   The  permanentmembers	 of the Cash Department Staff were to get the  usualincrements  and	 benefit of Provident  Fund  and  travellingallowance  in  accordance with the rules of the	 Bank.	 TheTreasurer  was required to engage members of the Cash  Staffon  salaries laid down by the Bank and if he  paid  anythingmore  than  the usual Bank scale he had to pay	it  himself.The  Treasurer was also entitled to nominate and  appoint  arepresentative	to carry on the duties undertaken by him  atthe various offices of the Bank but these appointments	wereSubject to the approval of the Bank.The  Treasurer was responsible for the acts of omission	 andcommission   and   for	 neglect   and	 default   of	 hisrepresentatives	 and for each and every member of  the	CashDepartment   Staff.   There  are  various  clauses  in	 theagreement  requiring the Treasurer or his representative  toperform	 their duties efficiently, honestly and in a  propermanner.	  The Treasurer and the Cash Department	 Staff	wereunder  the control of the Bank.	 They were required to	makeentries in the books of account which were furnished by	 theBank giving full particulars of all monies received and paid675by  them and in such manner as the Agent of the	 Bank  mightfrom  time to time direct in writing.  The Treasurer had  tocarry  out his duties faithfully and any communication	madeby  the Bank to any member of the Cash Department Staff	 wasto  be considered as a communication made to  the  Treasurerhimself	 and  he  was  bound to	 take  notice  of  it.	 Theagreement  could  be terminated by  three  calendar  months'notice	in  writing by either side but in the event  of	 anybreach	of any condition of the agreement by  the  Treasurerhis   services	could  be  terminated  forthwith;  but	 hisliability  was to continue.  There was also  an	 arbitrationclause.Counsel	 for  the  appellant  contended	 that  the   variousprovisions of the agreement showed that Sheel Chandra was  aservant	 of the Bank and not an independent contractor.	  Helaid particular emphasis on the fact that he was appointed aTreasurer  on  a monthly salary and his	 services  could  beterminated forthwith in certain circumstances.	Besides thishe  was to carry out his duties as directed by the Bank	 andwas  to	 discharge  his	 duties faithfully  and	 if  in	 thedischarge  of his duties he caused any loss to the  Bank  hewas liable to make good the loss.  These factors,  accordingto him, showed that he was not an independent contractor  oran  agent  of  the Bank but was	 a  salaried  servant.	 Thecontention on behalf of the respondent on the other hand wasthat the agreement showed that Sheel Chandra was carrying ona  business  in	 that he was supplying	cashiers  and  othermembers	 of  the Cash Department Staff for a  monetary	con-sideration.   He  guaranteed  their fidelity  which  was  aninsurance undertaken by him.  He was to get certain sums  ofmoney  for  supplying  each member  of	certain	 classes  ofservants to the Bank and the agreement between the Bank	 andSheel Chandra could be terminated by notice and there was anarbitration  clause  and  he  was  not	required  to   servepersonally.Undoubtedly there are some terms in the agreement which	 areunusual as ordinary agreements of service go but in the caseof an agreement between a Bank and a Treasurer they are riotso Unusual.  There was676an agreement with very similar clauses in Shivanandan Sharmav.  The Punjab National Bank Ltd. (1) and it was held to  bean agreement of service and not of agency.Now,  the  duties of Sheel Chandra under the  agreement	 aresuch as are peculiar to the employment of Treasurers.  It istrue that as Treasurer, Sheel Chandra had    also undertakento indemnify the Bank not only for his own default but	alsofor the default of the members of the Cash Department Staff.But  Banks  have to deal with monies,  valuable	 securities,gold  and  other  valuables  and  must	necessarily   employservants whose honesty is guaranteed and it is necessary forthe Bank to have some one in its employment who can  performthese  duties in a responsible manner and be  answerable  tothe  Bank for negligence and default in the  performance  ofthis  class of work.  In the very nature of things  one	 mancannot do all this work, not even at one branch, what to sayof  several  branches;	other people have  therefore  to  beemployed  and  although	 the persons employed  in  the	CashDepartment  are servants of the Bank they do the work  whichTreasurers  ordinarily and customarily do  and	consequentlythe  Treasurer is made responsible for any damage which	 theBank suffers due to the default of the Treasurer or of thoseemployed to do the work of the Cash Department.It is difficult to lay down any one test to distinguish	 therelationship of master and servant from that of art employerand  independent  contractor.  In many cases the  test	laiddown  is that in the case of master and servant	 the  mastercan order or require what is to be done and how it is to  bedone  but  in  the  case of  an	 independent  contractor  anemployer  can  only say what is to be done but	not  how  itshall  be  done.  But this test also does not apply  to	 allcases, e.g., in the case of Ship's master, a chauffeur or  areporter of a newspaper.      It was pointed out in  Cassidyv. Ministry of Health	 (2) that in the case of contract ofservice " a man is  employed  as part of the  business,	 andhis work is done as an integral part of the business whereasunder a contract for services the contractor is not(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1427.(2) [1951] 2 K.B. 343, 352-3.677integrated  into the business but is only accessory to	it".In certain cases it has been laid down that the indicia of acontract of service are (a) the master's power of  selectionof   the  servant;  (b)	 the  payment  of  wages  or   otherremunerations; (c) the master's right to control the  methodof  doing the work and (d) the master's right of  suspensionor dismissal: Short v. J. and Henderson Ltd. (1).  Bhagwati,J.,  in	 Dharangadhara	Chemical  Works	 Ltd.  v.  State  ofSaurashtra (2) said that in all cases the correct method  ofapproach  is  whether having regard to the  nature  of	workthere was due control and supervision by the employer.We  have  given	 above the duties of the  Treasurer  in	 thepresent	 case,	his obligations and the	 manner	 of  controlexercised  over him and the staff employed by him  to  carryout  the work of the Cash Department of the Bank.  It is  nodoubt true that the Treasurer guaranteed his fidelity,	goodfaith  and honesty of the persons who were employed  in	 theCash Department of the Bank but that was a part of the	dutythat he undertook and that is peculiar to the very nature ofhis  employment.  Applying the test which was laid  down  byBhagwati, J., in Dharangadhara Chemical Works Ltd. v.  Stateof  Saurashtra (2) that having regard to the nature  of	 thework  whether there was due control and supervision  of	 theBank  over the Treasurer, the Treasurer in the instant	casemust  be held to be a servant of the Bank.  What we have  tosee is the effect of the agreement as a whole and taking thevarious clauses together it must be held that Sheel Chandra,the  Treasurer, was a servant of the Bank.  In view of	thisit  is not necessary to discuss in detail the various  casesthat  were  cited  at  the  bar.   K.  P.  Bhargava  v.	 TheCommissioner  of  Income-Tax, U. P. (3) was the	 case  of  aTreasurer  of the Central Bank of India at Agra.   There  hewas  paid a salary of Rs. 100 and a commission for his	workas  a  Guarantee  Commission  Agent but	 the  terms  of	 thecontract  were	different and that was clearly a case  of  aGuarantee Commission Agency.(1) 62 T L.R. 427, 429.	 (2) [1957] S.C.R. 152, 160.(3)  [1954] 26 1 T.R. 489.88678Lala Jeewan Lal v. Commissioner of Income-tax(1) was also  acase of commission agency and in the peculiar  circumstancesof  that case it was held to be business within s.  2(5)  ofthe  Excess Profits Tax Act.  The assessee there was paid  acommission  of	4  annas  per cent.  on	 the  value  of	 thecontracts  secured by him.  Subsequently the commission	 wasincreased to Re.1 per cent. and for this extra commission heagreed to reimburse the mill in case of failure of a  personpurchasing  through him to pay the price.  Counsel  for	 therespondent also relied on Commissioner of Income-tax V. KaluBabu   Lal   Chand  (2)	 where	 the   Managing	  Director'sremuneration was held to be the income of a joint family  tobe   assessed	as  such  in  its  hands.   That   case	  isdistinguishable.   There  the  karta of	 a  Hindu  undividedfamily	took over a business as a going concern and  carriedon  the	 business till the company  was	 incorporated.	 Theshares	in the name of karta and his brother  were  acquiredwith the funds of the joint family.  The company was floatedwith  the funds of the joint family and was financed  by  itand  the remuneration received was credited in the books  ofthe family.  The office of the Managing Director itself	 wasassignable.   The Articles of Association provided that	 thekarta  or his assigns or successors in business	 "   whetherunder  his  name or any other style or firm " would  be	 theManaging Director of the Company and he was to continue	 forlife until removed because of fraud or dishonesty.  Thus theacquisition  of business, the flotation of the	Company	 andthe  appointment of the Managing Director  were	 inseparablylinked	together.   The	 facts	of  that  case	were   quitedifferent  from that of the present case which are  akin  tothe facts in Shivanandan Sharma v. Punjab National Bank Ltd.(3).The  next  question for decision is whether  the  salary  ofSheel Chandra as Treasurer of the Bank is assessable as partof  the income of Hindu undivided family of which he is	 thekarta  or  as  his  separate  income.	Both  the  AppellateTribunal  and  the High Court were of the opinion  that	 theemoluments  as	Treasurer  were	 not  acquired	without	 anydetriment and risk to the(1) [1953] 24 I.T.R. 217.  (2) [1960] 1 S.C.R. 320(3) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 1427.679family	property and therefore formed part of the income  ofthe Hindu undivided family.  Treasurership is an  employmentof responsibility, trust and fidelity and personal integrityand  ability  and  mere ability	 to  furnish  a	 substantialsecurity  is not the sole or even the main reason for  beingappointed  to  such a responsible post in a  Bank  like	 theCentral	 Bank  of  India.  On the other	 hand  his  previousexperience  as	an  Overseer  of  the  Bank  and  his  beingappointed  on  his applying for the post are  indicative  ofpersonal fitness for it.There is nothing to show that Sheel Chandra had received anyparticular  training at the expense of the family  funds  orhis appointment was the result of any outlay or	 expenditureof  or detriment to the family property.  But it was  arguedon behalf of the respondent that because he had lodged jointfamily property by way of security his earnings as Treasurerbecame	a part of the income of the Hindu  undivided  familyfor the reason that the acquisition was not without risk  tothe  family estate.  He relied on Gokul Chand v. Firm  HukumChand  Nath Mal (1) and Commissioner of Income-tax  v.	KaluBabu  Lal  Chand (2).  In the former case a  member  of	 thejoint  family  entered the Civil Service and that  was	madepossible  by the expenditure of family funds  which  enabledhim to acquire the necessary qualifications and it was	thatfact which made his earnings part of the family income.	 Thefollowing   passage   in  that	judgment  at  p.   168	 wasemphasised:-" It may be said to be direct in the one case and remote  inthe other, but if risk of or detriment to family property isthe  point in both cases, there appears to be no such  meritin  "science", recognised by the sages of the Hindu law,  aswould warrant the exclusion of gains of science as such fromthe category of partible acquisitions".Counsel	 particularly  relied  on the  words  'risk  of	 andcontended that by reason of the family property being  givenin  security,  the  risk  as  understood  in  that  judgmenthadarisen, because-it-became liable for any loss that  mightbe  incurred  during  the  course  of  employment  of  SheelChandra.  The word 'risk' in that(1) (1921) 48 I.A. 162.(2) [1960] 1 S.C.R. 320,680judgment  must be read in the context in which it was  used.Family	estate	was used and expenditure  was  incurred	 forequipping  one	of  its members to  join  the  Indian  CivilService.  It was in that connection that the words 'risk of'or  'detriment	to' family property were used.	 The  lattercase,  Kalu  Babu  Lai Chand's	case(1),  has  already	beendiscussed.   The facts and circumstances of that  case	weredifferent.The  cases  which  the Privy Council relied  upon  in  GokulChand's case (2) were all cases where joint family funds hadbeen  expended to fit a member of the joint family  for	 theparticular  profession or avocation the income of which	 wasthe  subject matter of dispute but the respondents were	 notable to refer to any decision in which it was held that	 themere  fact of giving joint family property in  security	 forthe  good  conduct of a member of the family employed  in  apost  of trust was sufficient to make the emoluments of	 thepost  joint  family  property because of  any  detriment  tofamily property or risk of loss.  It has not been shown thatin this case there was any detriment to the family  propertywithin the meaning of the term as used in decided cases.In our opinion the judgment of the High Court was  erroneouson both questions which were referred to it and they  shouldboth have been decided in favour of the appellant.The emoluments received by Sheel Chandra were in the  natureof salary and therefore assessable under s. 7 of the Income-tax Act and not under s. 10 of the Act as profits and  gainsof business and the salary was the income of the individual,i.e.,  Sheel  Chandra  and  not	 the  income  of  the  Hinduundivided family.We  therefore allow this appeal and set aside  the  judgmentand  order of the High Court.  The appellant will  have	 itscosts in this Court as well as in the High Court.(1) [1960] 1 S.C.R. 320.				Appeal allowed.(2)  (1921) 48 I.A. 162.681