PETITIONER:J.   K. TRUST, BOMBAY	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX/EXCESSPROFITS TAX, BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:22/05/1957BENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABENCH:AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMABHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.KAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1957 AIR  846		  1958 SCR   65ACT:Income Tax-Trust-Exemption from taxation-Trustees conductingbusiness of Managing Agency for the Trust-Business,  whether"Property"-Income  from	 Managing  Agency,  whether   incomederived	 from Property held on trust-Indian Income-tax	Act,1922 (XI Of 1922), S. 4(3)(i) and (ia).HEADNOTE:A  deed of trust whereby a sum of Rs. 1 lac was	 settled  onvarious	  charities  specified	therein	 provided  for	 theacquisition of the business of managing agency on behalf  ofthe trust and with the help of the trust fund.	The trusteesof the said trust (appellant) became the managing agents  ofa  public company.  The agreement for the  agency  provided,inter alia, that the agency was for a period of twenty yearsbut  that it was open to the trustees to give up the  agencyon giving three months' notice and that the managing  agentswere  to  get  a remuneration of 10 per cent.'	of  the	 netannual	profits	 subject to a minimum of Rs.  50000  and  anoffice	allowance  of Rs. 1,000 per mensem.   The  appellantclaimed that the income derived from the managing agency wasincome	from property held under trust to be applied  whollyfor  charitable	 purposes, and was, in	consequence,  exemptfrom taxation under S. 4(3)(i) of the Indian Income-tax Act,1922.	It  was	 contended  on	behalf	of  the	  Income-taxauthorities (1) that the income in question was remunerationfor services rendered and was not derived from any property,as  a  managing	 agency	 could	-not  be  considered  to  beproperty,  and	that, therefore, it did not fall  within  s.4(3)(i)	 of  the Act, (2) that on the terms of the  deed  oftrust  the  managing agency could not be  property  held  ontrust,	as no part of the sum of Rs. 1 lac was	utilised  inthe acquisition of the business so as to impress it with thecharacter  of accretion, and (3) that even if  the  managingagency	business  could be regarded as	property  within  S.4(3)(i), it was governed by the special provision  containedin S. 4(3)(ia), and as the conditions laid down therein	 hadnot been satisfied, no exemption could be claimed.Held:	  (1)  A managing agency is business which would  beproperty within s. 4(3)(i) of the Act.Lakshminarayan	Ram Gopal and Son Ltd. v. The Government  ofHyderabad, (1955) I.S.C.R. 393, followed.All  India Spinners' Association v. Commissioner of  Income-tax,, Bombay [1944] 12 I.T.R. 482, relied on,66(2)Though  the	office of managing agency  carries  with  itcertain	 obligations,  in law there can be no  objection  tocreating  a trust over property burdened  with	obligations,though, if it is onerous by reason of such obligations,	 thetrustee may be entitled to disclaim it.(3)When	 trustees  carry on business with the aid  of  trustfund  the  position in law is the same as if  they  actuallyemployed  it  in the business, though, in fact,	 it  be	 notactually invested therein and, taking the provisions of	 thedeed  of  trust and the agreement of  agency  together,	 themanaging agency must be held to be property held on trust.Rocke v. Hart, (1805) 32 E.R. 1009 and Moons v. De Bernales,(1826) 38 E.R. 117, relied on.The  case was remanded to the High Court for a	decision  onthe  question whether profits from business would be  exemptfrom  taxation	under  S.  4(3)(i)  of	the  Act  when	 theconditions laid down in S. 4(3)(ia) were not satisfied.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 246 of 1954.Appeal	by  special leave from the judgment an	order  datedOctober	 6,  1952, of the Bombay High  Court  in  Income-taxReference No. 1 of 1952.N.   A. Palkhivala, J. B. Dadachanji, S. N. Andley RameshwarNath and P. L. Vohra, for the appellant.O.   N. Joshi and R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1957.  May 22.	The Judgment of the Court was delivered byVENKATARAMA  AIYAR  J.-'This is an appeal by  special  leaveagainst	 the judgment of the Bombay High Court passed  in  areference under s. 66(1) of the Indian Income-tax Act,	1922(hereinafter  referred to as the Act) and ss. 21 and  19  ofthe  Excess  Profits  Tax Act, 1940,  and  of  the  BusinessProfits	 Tax Act, 1947, respectively read with s.  66(1)  ofthe  Act.   The dispute between the parties relates  to	 theassessment  of income-tax for the assessment years  1946-47,1947-48	 and  1948-49  and of excess  profits  tax  for	 thechargeable  accounting periods, September 3, 1945, to  March31,  1946,  April 1, 1946, to March 31, 1947  and  April  1,1947, to March 31, 1948, and it arises out of the same factsand involves the same points for determination,67On  June  15, 1945, three brothers Sir	Padampat  Singhania,Lala Kailashpat Singhania and Lala Lakshmipat Singhania	 whowere  carrying	on  business  under  the  name	of  JuggilalKamlapat,  executed  a deed of trust, Ex.  A,  whereby	theysettled a sum of Rs. 1,00,000 on various charities specifiedtherein	 and called the J. K. Trust, Bombay,  and  appointedthemselves  and two other persons Lala Ramdeo Podar and	 SirChunnilal  Mehta as its trustees.  The trust  deed  providedinter alia that "the trustees may with the help of the trustfund, for and on behalf of and for the benefit of the trust,carry	on  such  business  including  the  taking  up	 andconducting  the	 managing agency or selling  agency  of	 anycompany	 in  such name or names as they	 in  their  absolutediscretion  may think fit and proper and may close  and	 re-start  such business and utilise the profits for all or	 anyof  the objects aforesaid.". Large powers were conferred  onthem  in  the conduct of the business, and  they  were	alsoauthorised  to	"raise	or borrow  money  required  for	 thepurpose of the trust".At this time, Messrs.  E. D. Sassoon and Co., Ltd. were	 themanaging  agents  of  a public Company	called	the  RaymondWoollen	 Mills Ltd.  The firm of Juggilal Kamlapat of  whichthe  three Singhania brothers were the partners, acquired  acontrolling  interest in the said Mills by purchase  of	 theshares	of  Messrs.   E. D. Sassoon  and  Co.  therein;	 andfollowing  on  this,  the  shareholders	 passed	 a   specialresolution on September 3, 1945, appointing the trustees  ofthe  J.	 K. Trust as managing agents of the Company  in	 theplace of Messrs.  E. D. Sassoon and Co', Lid., who resigned.On September 10, 1945, a memorandum of agreement, Ex. B, wasduly  executed by the Company constituting the	trustees  ofthe J. K. Trust, Bombay, as its managing agents on the termsand conditions set out therein.	 It is to be noted that	 thefive  persons named as trustees under Ex.  A were  appointedas managing agents in their character as trustees, and it isexpressly  provided  therein that the  expression  'managingagents',  "unless  excluded by or repugnant to	the  contextshall  include the Trustees for the time being of  the	saidTrust or68any  other  Trust with which the same may  be  amalgamated".The  agency was to be for a period of 20 years; but  it	 wasopen to the trustees to throw it up on giving three  months'notice.	  The managing agents were to get a remuneration  of10 per cent. of the net annual profits subject to a  minimumof  Rs.	 50,000	 and an office allowance of  Rs.  1,000	 permensem.	 Clause 7 of the agreement provided that,"  During  the continuance of this agreement,  the  ManagingAgents	shall  maintain with the Company a  deposit  of	 Rs.1,00,000  (Rupees one lack only) in cash by way of  securityfor due fulfilment of their obligations as specified thereinand shall be entitled to charge interest at 3 1/2 per  cent.per annum on the amount of such deposit in addition to theirremuneration."Clause	8  laid	 an obligation on the  managing	 agents	 "toarrange	 loans	and  advances to the  Company  as  and	whenrequired up to and not exceeding Rs. 10 lacs at any time andif  necessary to guarantee such loans or advances from	timeto time".  Under el. 14,"Notwithstanding  anything herein contained, all  the  termsand  conditions	 of this Agreement including the  period  ofappointment  of	 the  Managing	Agents	may  be	 varied	  orabrogated by mutual agreement."The  trustees  entered on their duties	as  managing  agentsunder  this  agreement, and by an agreement  dated  May	 14,1946,  they appointed one Tej Narain Khaitan, son-in-law  ofone of the three Singhania brothers as their  representativeto carry on the managing agency work on a remuneration of 30per  cent.  of the annual income which would be	 payable  tothem  under Ex.	 B. Before the Income-tax  authorities,	 theappellant claimed that the income derived from the  managingagency was income derived from property held under trust  tobe  applied  wholly  for charitable purposes,  and  was,  inconsequence, exempt from taxation under s. 4 (3) (i) of	 theAct.   The  Income-tax authorities held that the  income  inquestion was remuneration for services rendered, and was notderived	 from any property, and that, therefore, it did	 notfall within s. 4 (3) (i) of the Act.  They further held69that even if the managing agency business could be  regardedas  property  within s. 4 (3) (i), it was  governed  by	 thespecial	 provision  contained in s. 4 (3) (ia), and  as	 theconditions  laid  down therein had not	been  satisfied,  noexemption  could be claimed.  In this view, they  allowed  asum of Rs. 30,000 per annum for remuneration of Mr.  Khaitanas a deduction under s. 10 (2) (x) of the Act, and held thatthe balance of the income, Rs. 23,287 in 1946-47, Rs. 36,786in  1947-48  and Rs. 2,16,460 in 1948-49 was  liable  to  betaxed under the provisions of the taxing statutes.On  applications made by the assessee under a. 66(1) of	 theAct  and the corresponding provisions in the Excess  ProfitsTax  Act  and  the Business Profits Tax	 Act,  the  Tribunalreferred  the  following questions for the decision  of	 theHigh Court of Bombay:1.   "	Whether	 on  the facts of the  case  the  commissionearned	by  the managing agents for  managing.	the  RaymondWoollen	 Mills was income earned by the managing agents	 forservices rendered and not income derived from property	heldunder trust or for other legal obligations and therefore notexempt under s. 4(3)  (i) of the Income-tax Act?2.   Whether  on the facts of the case the business  carriedon by the Trustees falls to be considered under s. 4 (3) (i)or s. 4 (3) (ia) of the Income-tax Act?"The reference was heard by Chagla, C.J., and Tendolkar,	 J.,who  held that no part of the sum of Rs. 1,00,000 which	 wasthe only property settled on trust under Ex. A was  actuallyinvested  in the managing agency business, which could	not,therefore,  be	regarded  as trust property,  and  that	 theincome	received  from	that business was  'not	 within	 theexemption  enacted  in	s.  4  (3)  (i).   They	 accordinglyanswered  the  first  question against	the  appellant.	  Asregards the second question, the learned Judges held that itwas  unnecessary to express any opinion thereon, as  it	 wascommon ground that even if s. 4 (3) (ia) applied, neither ofthe  conditions	 laid down in sub-cl. (a) or  (b)  had	beenfulfilled,  and that accordingly no relief could be  grantedthereunder.70The  points that arise for determination in this appeal	 are(1)  whether  the income received by the  trustees  of	J.K.Trust, Bombay, as managing agents of Raymond Woollen  Mills,Ltd., is income derived from property held on trust or on anobligation in the nature of trust; and (2) whether the claimfor exemption in respect of such income is to be  determinedunder s.  4 (3) (i) or s. 4 (3) (ia).With reference to the first question, the contention of	 Mr.Palkhivala is that managing agency is business and thereforeit  is	property,  and that it is  property  held  on  trustbecause	 it  is conducted by the trustees on behalf  of	 thetrust  with the help of trust properties and  in  accordancewith  the directions contained in the trust deed.   He	alsocontends that even if the business is not held on trust,  itis at least held, on the principle laid down in s. 88 of theTrusts	Act,  on an obligation in the nature of	 trust,	 andthat  s. 4 (3) (ii) is, in consequence, attracted.  For	 therespondent, Mr. Joshi does not dispute that managing  agencyis  to be regarded as business, but he contends	 that  therecan  be no trust of such agency, because it really  involvesrendering  of services and cannot be said to be property  inrespect	 of  which alone trust can be created,	and  furtherbecause managing agency is an office, and that again is	 notproperty.   He	also  contends	that,  in  any	event,	,themanaging agency created under Ex.  B could not be held to betrust property, because it could be terminated at any  time,if the trustees so desired, on three months' notice and thatthere could be no trust of' such a precarious, ephemeral  orevanescent  kind of property, if indeed it could be held  tobe property.  He also contends that s. 88 was  inapplicable,as there was no property which was held on an obligation  inthe nature of a trust.Whether a managing agency could be regarded as business	 wasconsidered by this Court in Lakshminarayan Ram Gopal and SonLtd. v. The Government of Hyderabad (1), where the  questionarose with reference to assessment of excess profits tax  onthe  remuneration  received by managing	 agents,  tax  beingleviable under(1)  [1955] 11 S.C.R. 393.71that Act only on business income and it was held that it wasbusiness,  and	that  the  profits  therefrom  were  rightlyassessed  to tax under the Act.	 The law must  therefore  betaken to be settled beyond controversy that managing  agencyis itself business.Then the question is whether that business can be held to beproperty within s. 4(3)(i) of the Act.	Now 'property' is  aterm of the widest import, and subject to any limitation  orqualification which the context might require, it  signifiesevery possible interest which a person can acquire, hold andenjoy.	Business would undoubtedly be property, unless thereis  something  to the contrary in  the	enactment.   Section4(3)(i) of the Act under which exemption is claimed runs  asfollows:"4.  (3)  Any income, profits or gains	falling	 within	 thefollowing classes shall not be included in the total  incomeof the person receiving them-(i)  any  income derived from property held under  trust  orother  legal obligation wholly for religious  or  charitablepurpose,  and in the case of property so held in  part	onlyfor such purposes, the income applied, or finally set  apartfor application thereto."Now,  confining	 ourselves solely to the language  of  s.  4(3)(i),	 there	is  nothing- in it which  restricts  in	 anymanner	 the  normal  and  accepted  meaning  of  the	wordproperty', and excludes business from its connotation.There is also authority in support of the view that businessis  property within the intendment of s. 4(3)(i).  In In  reThe  Tribune (1), the question was whether a  trust  createdover  the Tribune press and newspaper was for  a  charitablepurpose as defined in s. 4 (3) (i) of the Act.	The majoritvof  the learned Judges of the High Court took,the view	thatthe  object  of	 the  trust  was  not  wholly  religious  orcharitable,  and that accordingly the exemption	 under	thatsection	 could not be claimed.	This decision was  taken  inappeal	to  the	 Privy Council,	 which	held  reversing	 thejudgment of the High Court that the object of the trust	 wasin  its	 entirety  charitable and that it  came	 within	 theexemption enacted in s. 4 (3) (i).  Vide In re The  Trusteesof the Tribune (2).  That is a question with(1) [ 1035] 3 I.T. R. 246.  (2) [1939] 7 I.T.R. 415; L.R. 66I.A.72which  we are not concerned in this appeal, and	 the  actualdecision  of the Privy Council does not bear on the  presentcontroversy.   What  is	 relevant to our  purposes  is	thatbefore the High Court, a contention was raised that the word'property'  must bear the same meaning both in ss. 9  and  4(3)  (i), that in s. 9 it was used in  contradistinction  tobusiness  which	 was  dealt  with  under  s.  10,  and	thattherefore  'property'  in  s. 4	 (3)(i)	 could	not  includebusiness.   This contention was repelled by the High  Court,which  held that the meaning of the word 'property' in s.  4(3)  (i) could not be controlled by the connotation of	thatword in s. 9. Vide In re The Tribune (1).  Before the  PrivyCouncil,  however,  the	 question whether  business  of	 theTribune press and newspaper was property was not raised, theBoard merely observing that in the letter of reference therewas  "no suggestion that the income under assessment is	 notderived from property held under trust declared in the	20thand 21st paragraphs of the will".The point, however, arose directly for decision in All IndiaSpinners' Association v. Commissioner of Income-tax,  Bombay(2).  There,  the assessee was an  unregistered	 associationcalled	the  All  India Spinners' Association,	and  it	 wasformed	for  the  purpose  of  development  of	the  villageindustries of handspinning and handweaving. -The Associationcollected subscriptions from its members and also  donationsand  invested them in the purchase of raw cotton  which	 wassupplied  to  poor labourers for being spun into  yarn,	 theyarn  being.  then  supplied to them for  being	 woven	intocloth,	 which	 was  then  sold  and  the   sale   proceedsappropriated  to  the  funds  of  the  Association  for	 thepurposes aforesaid.  The assessee claimed exemption under s.4(3)  (i)  on the ground that its income  was  derived	fromproperty  held	under  trust.  The High	 Court	was  of	 theopinion	 that  the  yarn and the cloth	the  sale  of  whichyielded	 the income, could not be regarded as property	heldin  trust,  and that, in consequence, s. 4(3)  (i)  did	 notapply.	 In reversing this judgment, the Privy Council	heldthat  "the  property consisted of the Organisation  and	 theundertaking as well as in the(1) [1935] 3 I.T.R. 246.(2) [1944] 12 I.T.R. 482; L.R. 71 I.A. 159,73fluctuating stock of yarn and cloth", and that the exemptionin s. 4(3)(i) applied.	This is direct authority in  supportof the contention of the appellant.As  against these authorities, the respondent relied on	 thedecision in Eggar v. Commissioner of Incometax (1).   There,a  certain  professor agreed to hand over  the	remunerationwhich would be payable to him by the University for lecturesto  be	delivered by him, for certain  charitable  purposes,but,  in fact, no deed of trust was executed.  The  questionwas  whether  the  amounts  actually  paid  to	him  by	 theUniversity  were exempt from taxation, and it was held	thatthey  were not, and that the income in question was  at	 thetime  of  the receipt the private property of  the  assesseebeing  remuneration  for services rendered  by	him.   Therecould  be no question in this case of any source  of  incomebeing  dedicated to trust, and the decision accordingly	 hasno  bearing on the point, which falls to 'be  decided  here.The  weight of authority is therefore clearly in  favour  ofthe  view that business would be 'property' for purposes  ofs. 4(3)(i) of the Act.It  is	next  contended	 for the  respondent  that  even  ifbusiness  could in general be held to be property within  s.4(3)  (i),  managing agency cannot be so  regarded,  becausehaving	regard	to  ss. 2(9A), 87A and	87B  of	 the  IndianCompanies Act, it is merely an office which consists in	 theperformance   of   services   and   discharge	of   certainobligations,  and  that	 that  could  not  be  regarded	  asproperty,  which could be the subject-matter of	 trust.	  Weare  unable  to	 accede to this	 contention.   In  AngurbalaMullick	 v.  Debabrata Mullick (2),  and  The  Commissioner,Hindu  Religious  Endowments,  Madras  v.  Sri	 LakshmindraThirtha	 Swamiar of Sri Shirur MUtt (3), even an  office  oftrusteeship   was  held	 to  be	 property  especially	whenemoluments were attached to it, and that must a fortiori  bethe position in the case of office of managing agency, whichis  clearly one of profit and even alienable  under  certaincircumstances.	The office requires no doubt the performanceof services; but there is no antithesis between service(1)  (1926) 2 I.T.C. 286.(2)  [195I] S.C.R. 1125.(3)   [1954] S.C.R. 1005, 1019.1074and business, as there are several kinds of business,  whichinvolve	 the performance of services, such as insurance	 andcommission  agency.  The true test is whether  the  servicesare  a regular source of income.  And if managing agency  isbusiness,  as was held in Lakshminarayan Ram Gopal  and	 SonLtd.  v. The Government of Hyderabad (1), then there  is  noreason	why  it should not be property for  purposes  of  s.4(3)(i) of the Act.  Nor is it an accurate statement of	 thetrue position to describe trust of the managing agency as  atrust of an obligation.	 It is in truth a trust of property,which carries with it certain obligations, and in law, thereis  no objection to creating a trust over property  burdenedwith obligations, though, if it is onerous by reason of suchobligations, the trustee may be entitled to disclaim it.It  is then contended that even if managing agency could  bethe subject of trust, the managing agency created by Ex.   Bmust be held to be incapable of being held on trust  becauseit  is	of  the essence of  public,  as	 distinguished	fromprivate, charity that it must be permanent and incapable  ofbeing revoked or put an end to at the option of the trustee,whereas	 the  managing	agency created by Ex.	B  could  beterminated  by the trustees by giving three months'  notice.This  is  to  confuse charity  with  properties	 devoted  tocharity.   It is true that a public charity is perpetual  incharacter, and that means that it is capable of enforcement,so  long  as  there  is	 any  property	left  which  can  beappropriated  for its objects.	And even if some or  all  ofthe  objects  become  incapable	 of  fulfilment,  the  trustproperties will be devoted to the performance of similar  orallied charitable purposes on the doctrine of cy pres.	 Butso  far	 as the trust properties themselves  are  concerned,they  will be held only on the incidents to which  they	 aresubject under the law.	Thus, if the property is a leaseholdinterest,  it  must cease on the termination of	 the  lease.Likewise, if trust property is alienated under circumstancesbinding on the trust, it will go out of the trust.  But thatdoes not operate(1)  [1955] I S.C.R. 393.75as  an extinction of the trust, unless there is no  propertyat  all	 left, with which the trust could  be  carried	out.That  is  the principle enacted in s. 77(c)  of	 the  IndianTrusts	Act, 1882, which in terms, however, applies only  toprivate	 trusts.  We must therefore hold that the fact	thatthe  trustees have the option at any. time to throw  up	 themanaging  agency  is  no  legal'  impediment  to  its  beingproperty which could be held on trust.Lastly,	 it  is contended that on the terms of Ex.   A,	 theproperties  which  the	trustees are "	to  hold  and  standpossessed  of  "  are " the sum of Rupees One  Lao  and	 anydonations or contributions received by the Trustees and	 allaccretions  thereto  and  thereof  and	the  investments  insecurities  for	 the  time  being  and	from  time  to	timerepresenting  the same ", that on the terms  aforesaid,	 themanaging agency cannot be held to be property held in trust,as  no part of the sum of Rs. 1,00,000 was utilised  in	 theacquisition  of	 the business so as to impress it  with	 thecharacter of accretion.	 It is argued that though the sum ofRs. 1,00,000 was given as security by the trustees under Ex.B,   that  was	only  for  the	due  performance  of   theirobligations  as managing agents, and that the amount  itselfwas not actually thrown into the business.  But it is to  beobserved that cl. 3 of the trust deed expressly provides forthe acquisition of the business of managing agency on behalfof  the	 trust and " with the help of the trust	 fund",	 andthat  precisely	 is what has happened  and  indeed,  readingtogether  Exs.	 A  and B, it is impossible  to	 resist	 theconclusion  that  both	the  documents	formed	part  of  anintegral  scheme, and that what the settlors had in view  incl.  3	of  Ex.	 A is the very managing	 agency,  which	 wasacquired  under Ex.  B. There is considerable  authority  inEngland that when trustees carry on business with the aid oftrust  fund,  the  position in law is the same	as  if	theyactually employed it in the business, though, in fact, it benot actually invested therein.	Thus, in Rocke v. Hart	(1),Sir William Grant observed:(1)  (1805) 11 Ves.  Jun, 58 ; 32 E.R. 1009, 1010.76a  trader lodges money at his banker's, he has in  effect  abenefit	 from that.  As he must generally keep a balance  inhis banker's, it answers the purpose of his credit; as if itwas  his own money; and I should hold that to be  employmentin his trade."There are similar observations by Lord Gifford, in Moons  v.De Bernales (1).In  the result, we are of opinion that the word I  property'in  s.	4(3)(i)	 of the Act is of  sufficient  amplitude  tocomprehend  'business',	 and  if the  question	fell  to  bedecided	 solely	 on  the  terms	 of  that  sub-section,	 themanaging agency constituted under Ex.  B must be treated  asproperty held on trust within s. 4(3)(i) of the Act.This  conclusion, however, is not sufficient to	 dispose  ofthe  appeal  in favour of the appellant,  because  there  isstill  the  question raised by the respondent that  even  ifunder  the general law, the word I property' is wide  enoughin  its significance to include business, in its context  ins.  4(3)(i)  read  along with s. 4(3)(ia) it  bears  a	morerestricted  sense  as  meaning	only  property	other	thanbusiness.  And it is this contention that forms the subject-matter of the second question under reference.	In order  tounderstand  this question, it is necessary to state that  inthe  Act  as  originally  passed,  the	only  provision	 forexemption  from	 taxation of income  derived  from  propertydedicated to religious or, charitable trust was contained ins.  4(3)(i).   On this section, the question  arose  whetherwhen a business was carried on for and on behalf of a trust,the profits derived therefrom were exempt from taxation.  Itwas   held   in	 Commissioner  of  Income-tax,	 Madras	  v.Arunachalam Chettiar (2), following a decision of the  Houseof  Lords  in Coman v. Governors of  the  Rotunda  Hospital,Dublin(3), that they were not.	That was also the view takenby  the Allahabad High Court in Lachhman Das Narain Das,  Inre  (4).   Then came the decision in In re The	Tribune	 (5)already referred to, wherein the Lahore High Court held that'property' in s. 4(3)(i) was(1) (1826) 1 Russ. 301 ; 38 E.R. 117.  (3) [1021] A.C. 1.(2) I.L.R. (1926) 49 Mad. 833.	  (4) I.L.R. (1925) 47	All.68.(5) [1935] 3 I.T.R. 246.77sufficiently  comprehensive  to include business,  and	thatprofits from business carried on by trustees would be exemptfrom  taxation.	  As already stated, though the	 matter	 wastaken  in appeal to the Privy Council this question was	 notraised.	  It  was  in  this  state  of	the  law  that	 theLegislature  intervened,  and enacted a	 new  provision,  s.4(3)(ia), which is as follows:"  4(3)	 Any  income, profits or gains	falling	 within	 thefollowing classes shall not be included in the total  incomeof the person receiving them:(ia)  Any income derived from business carried on on  behalfof a religious or charitable institution when the income  isapplied solely to the purposes of the institution and-(a)  the  business  is	carried	 on in	the  course  of	 thecarrying out of a primary purpose of the institution, or(b)  the  work	in connection with the	business  is  mainlycarried on by beneficiaries of the institution." Under	thisprovision,  the profits of business would be exempt only  ifthe  conditions laid down therein are satisfied.  It is	 thecontention  of	the  Department that as this  is  a  specialprovision dealing with the topic of exemption in respect  ofbusiness carried on for and on behalf of a trust, any  claimfor  exemption	as  regards profits derived  from  any	suchbusiness can be made only under that provision, and when theconditions  laid down therein are not satisfied, it  is	 notopen to the assessee to fall back upon the general provisioncontained  in s. 4(3)(i) and claim exemption  thereunder  onthe  ground  that business is property.	 The basis  of	thiscontention  is the well-known maxim,  Generalia	 specialibusnon  derogant.	 In Charitable Gadodia	Swadeshi  Stores  v.Commissioner of Income-tax, Punjab(1), this question came upfor consideration before the Lahore High Court.	 It was heldby the learned Judges that the fact that the business failedto  satisfy the two conditions laid down in s. 4(3)(ia)	 wasno  reason why it should not be exempt from taxation  if  itfell within1)   [1944] 12 I.T. R. 385.78s.   4(3) (i), and the main ground of the decision was	thatthe  two  categories mentioned in s. 4(3) (i)  and  s.	4(3)(i)(a) having been enacted as two different clauses, it mustbe taken that the one did not exclude the other.It  was this decision that was relied upon by the  appellantbefore	 the   Tribunal,  which,  however,   considered	  itdistinguishable.   A  reading of its order,  however,  showsthat  it  was not really satisfied  about  its	correctness.Accordingly, when the appellant applied for reference under-s.  66	(1)  of the Act, the Tribunal  referred	 the  secondquestion  also for the decision of the High Court.   But  inthe  view which the learned Judges of the Bombay High  Courttook  that business was not property within s.	4(3)(i),  itbecame	unnecessary for them to express an opinion  on	thatquestion.   Now that we have held that the word property  ins. 4 (3) (i), standing by itself, is susceptible of a  widerconnotation so as to include business, it becomes  necessaryto  consider the second question under	reference.   Learnedcounsel	  on  both  sides  agree  that	it  would  be	moresatisfactory  that this question should be remitted  to	 theHigh Court for determination.In  the	 result,  we remand the case to the  High  Court  ofBombay	 for  a	 fresh	disposal  of  the  reference  on   aconsideration  of  the second question.	 As  for  costs,  wedirect that the respondent do pay the appellant the costs ofthis appeal as also the costs of the hearing before the HighCourt.	 The  costs  of the further hearing  which  we	havedirected will be dealt with by the High Court on remand.Appeal allowed.	 Case remanded.79