PETITIONER:THE ORIENTAL INVESTMENT CO., LTD.	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,BOMBAY.DATE OF JUDGMENT:22/05/1957BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  852		  1958 SCR   49ACT:Income-tax-Reference   to  High	 Court-Questions   of	law-Investment company-Dealer or Investor-Mixed question of	 lawand fact-Legal effect of facts found, a question of law.HEADNOTE:The  appellant	company was incorporated  as  an  investmentcompany	 which by its memorandum of association enabled	 it,inter alia, to deal in investments and properties.  For	 thepurposes of assessment to income-tax the appellant  claimed,for  the  assessment year in question, to be treated  as  aninvestor and not as a ,dealer on the ground that it did	 notcarry  on  any business in the purchase or sale	 of  shares,securities or properties.  The Incometax Appellate  Tribunalheld   that  according	to  the	 company's   memorandum	  ofassociation  and  its own assertions made all along  in	 thepast,  it should be treated as a dealer in  investments	 andproperties  and	 that its income arising from the  sales  ofshares	and properties should be taxed as business  profits.The  appellant's  applications for a reference to  the	HighCourt  were rejected on the ground that no question  of	 lawarose out of the order of the Tribunal.Held,  that  the question whether the  appellant's  businessamounted   to  dealing	in  shares  and	 properties  or	  toinvestment, is a mixed question of law and fact and that thelegal effect of the facts found by the Tribunal as a  resultof  which the appellant could be treated as a dealer  or  aninvestor, is a question of law.Accordingly,  the order of the High Court was set aside	 andthe  case  remitted  to the High  Court	 for  directing	 theTribunal to state a case.(1)  [1944] 12 I.T.R. 393.50Meenakshi  Mills,  Madurai v. Commissioner  of	Income	Tax,Madras, (1956) S.C.R. 691, applied.Case law reviewed.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.153 of 1954.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedJanuary	 15,  1952, of the Bombay High Court  in  Income-TaxApplication No. 54 of 1951.R.   J. Kolah, J. B. Dadachanji, S. N. Andley and  RameshwarNath, for the appellant.C.   K.	 Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, G.  N.  Joshiand R. H. Dhebar, for the respondent.1957.  May 22.	The Judgment of the Court was delivered byKAPUR J.-This is an appeal by the assessee by special  leaveand  the question for decision is whether questions of	law,if any, arise out of the order of the Appellate Tribunal.The facts giving rise to the appeal are that the  petitionercompany	 was incorporated on July 29,1924, as an  investmentcompany, the objects of which are set out in el.  III of thememorandum of association and more particularly in  sub-cls.1, 2, 15 and 16 of that clause.	 The assessment years  underreview. are 1943-44 to 1948-49, excepting the year  1947-48.According to its petition made in the High Court of  Bombay,the petitioner company dealt with its assets as follows:"The Petitioner Company purchased during the period 1st July1925  to  30th	June  1928  shares  of	the  value  of	 Rs.1,86,47,789/- major portion of which was comprised of sharesin  the Sassoon Group of Mills.	 During the year ended	30thJune  1929  the Petitioner Company  promoted  two  companiesknown as Loyal Mills Ltd. and Hamilton Studios Ltd. and tookover  all their shares of the value of Rs. 10 1/2 lacs.	  Inthe  year 1930, the Petitioner Company purchased  shares  ofRs.  1,33,930.	During the period of 9 years from  1st	July1930  to  30th	July 1939 no purchases were  made  with	 theexception of a few shares of Loyal Mills Ltd.,51taken  over from the staff of E. D. Sassoon & Co. Ltd.,	 whoretired	 from  service.	 In the year ended  30th  June	1940reconstruction scheme of the Appollo Mills Ltd., took  placeunder which debentures held by the Petitioner Company in theAppollo	 Mills	Ltd., were redeemed and	 the  proceeds	werereinvested  in the new issue of shares made by	the  AppolloMills  Ltd.  Out of the purchases of the value of Rs.  2,794made  by the Petitioner Company during the year	 ended	30thJune  1941 Rs. 2,000/- was the value of shares of the  LoyalMills Ltd., taken over from the retiring staff.	 In the yearended  30th June 1943 the Petitioner Company took over	fromthe David Mills Co. Ltd., shares of The Associated  BuildingCo., of the value of Rs. 56,700/-.  After this there were nopurchases  at  all to this date excepting purchases  of	 thevalue  of Rs. 34,954 during the year ended 30th June,  1946."The sales are contained in para 3 (b) which may be quoted:"  In  relation	 to the purchases  made	 by  the  PetitionerCompany as stated above no appreciable sales of shares	weremade during the period 29th July 1924 to 30th June 1942, thesales made in the year ended 30th June 1929 of the value  ofRs. 1,29,333 included shares of the value of 'Rs. 45,000  inthe  Loyal Mills Ltd., sold to the members of the staff	 andshares	of  the value of Rs.  83,833  representing  sterlinginvestments  handed over to the creditors of the  PetitionerCompany in part repayment of the loan taken from them in theyear  ended  30th  June 1931, shares of	 the  value  of	 Rs.7,48,356 were handed over to the creditors in payment of theloan granted by them.  From the year ended 30th June 1943 E.D.  Sassoon & Co. Ltd., started relinquishing  the  managingagencies  of  the various Mills under their agency  and	 theshares	held by the Petitioner Company in the Sassoon  Groupof  Mills were handed over to the respective  purchasers  ofthe Mills agencies.  "This  gives the history of the acquisition and	disposal  ofshares	and also how the various transactions  were  enteredinto  and  why.	 Prior to 1940 the assessee company  made  aclaim every year for being treated as52a dealer in investments and properties	but this  contentionwas consistently repelled and upto the assessment year 1939-40  the assessee company was assessed on the basis of  beingan  investor  but it appears that for  the  assessment	year1940-41 and the two following years 1941-42 and 1942-43	 theDepartment  accepting  the  plea  of  the  assessee  companytreated	 it as a dealer in shares, securities and  immovableproperties  and assessed it on that basis.  For these  yearsand  for  the assessment year 1943-44 the company  made	 itsReturn	on that basis.	But after the Return had been  filedfor  the  year	1943-44 the assessee  company  withdrew	 itsReturn	and  filed  a  revised	Return	on  March  7,  1944,contending that it was not a dealer but merely an  investor.Along with the Return it filed a letter dated March 6, 1944,in which inter alia it stated:"The  Return  of Total Income which was submitted  with	 theCompany's letter of 25th May 1943 was prepared in conformitywith  the ruling of the Income. tax Officer in	the  1940-41assessment  that the company was to be assessed as a  dealerin investments.	 Since that Return was submitted the CentralBoard of Revenue has decided that the Company is an  Invest-ment  Holding Company and accordingly an amended  Return  ofTotal  Income under Section 22 (1) of the Indian  Income-taxAct is submitted herewith on which the assessment for  1943-44 may be based, as on this particular question the  companyobviously cannot have one status for Excess Profits Tax	 andanother for Income-tax.	 "It was also contended that it never carried on any  businessin the purchase or sale of shares, securities or  propertiesand  therefore	prayed	that in view of	 the  order  of	 theCentral	 Board of Revenue made on its application  under  s.26(1)  of the Excess Profits Tax Act it should	be  assessedfor income-tax purpose as an investor and not as a dealer.The  Income-tax	 Officer rejected this plea and "  held	 theinvestments  as the stock-in-trade of its  business  thereinwhich  it carried on during the 'previous year' also ".	 Thecompany	  took	 an  appeal  to	 the   Appellate   AssistantCommissioner which was dismissed and the			     53order of the Income-tax Officer upheld.	 It then appealed tothe  Income-tax Appellate Tribunal, Bombay, where  the	samecontentions  were raised but were, repelled.   The  Tribunalsaid:"  The	company having itself raised the point	in  all	 theprior  years  that  it	was  a	dealer	in  investments	 andproperties,  it would appear to be difficult  to  understandwhy  the company now seeks to get the position	changed	 anddesires the Income-tax Officer to treat it as if it was	 notdealing in shares, securities and immoveable properties."The  Tribunal  after holding that the company was  under  nomisapprehension	  when	it  claimed  to	 be  a	 dealer	  ininvestments in the earlier years because it was then  alwaysincurring losses and that the present contention was  raisedbecause it made "substantial profits" said:"but  we  have	no doubt that, according  to  the  company'smemorandum  of association and its own assertions  made	 allalong  in  the past, the assessee company is  a	 'dealer  ininvestments  and properties and the income arising to it  onthe  sale  thereof has been rightly held by  the  Income-taxOfficer	 to  be	 business profits liable to  tax  under	 theordinary provisions of the Income-tax Act."Thus  the grounds on which the case was decided against	 theassessee  were (1) that the assessee claimed to be a  dealeror  an	investor  according as it incurred  losses  or	madeprofits and (2) that because of the objects contained in thememorandum of association and because of its assertion	madein the past as being a dealer the assessee could not be heldto be an investor.The company then applied to the Appellate Tribunal under  s.66(1)  of the Indian Income-tax Act for a reference  of	 thefollowing questions for the opinion of the High Court:"(1)  Whether on the facts and in the circumstances  of	 thecase the assessee company can rightly be treated as a dealerin investments and properties; and54(2)Whether  the profits and losses arising from the sale  ofshares, securities and immoveable properties of the assesseecompany can be taxed as-business profits."This  prayer  was rejected because in the  opinion  -of	 theTribunal no question of law arose out of its order.  It said:" The Tribunal did not decide this point merely because	 thecompany's  memorandum  of  association	gave  power  to	 thecompany	 to deal in investments and properties, but  it	 wasactually found that the company had dealt in investments andproperties  throughout	and had also all along in  the	pastasserted   that	  it  was  a  dealer  in   investments	 andproperties."This was more than it had said in its appellate order.The assessee company then made an application under s. 66(2)of  the	 Indian Income-tax Act for requiring  the  AppellateTribunal  to state the case and refer it to the	 High  Courtbut  this  application was dismissed, and then	the  companyobtained special leave to appeal to this Court.Counsel for the assessee company contends that the questionsof  law arise out of the order of the Tribunal	because	 theTribunal  has  ignored	the  documentary  evidence  producedbefore it, has based it decision on irrelevant matters,	 hasfailed to consider crucial facts and has misdirected  itselfby  assuming that the petitioner was a dealer from the	verybeginning  which  was  contrary to  the	 documents  producedbefore it.Section 66 (1) of the Income-tax Act (hereinafter termed theAct)  provides that any assessee may require  the  AppellateTribunal  to  refer to the High Court any  question  of	 lawarising	 out of its appellate order and it is the  statutoryduty of the Appellate Tribunal to draft the statement of thecase and refer the question of law arising out of such orderto the High Court but the primary requirement is that  theremust be a question of law arising out of the order.   Shouldthe  Tribunal refuse to state the case as required under  s.66(1)  of  the	Act on the ground that no  question  of	 lawarises, the assessee has the right to apply to the High			     55Court  requiring the Appellate Tribunal to state a case	 andrefer  it  to  the  High  Court	 but  again  the   essentialconsideration is the existence of a question of law. arisingout of the order.To draw a line between what is a question of law and what isa  question of fact is not always easy.	 It is difficult  todefine this distinction which has given rise to a number  ofdecisions, which it will be useful to discuss at this stage.In  Stanley  v. Gramophone and	Typewriter,  Limited(1)	 theMaster of the Rolls discussed this question as follows :"  It is undoubtedly true that, if the Commissioners find  afact, it is not open to this court to question that  findingunless there is no evidence to support it.  If, however, theCommissioners state the evidence which was before them,	 andadd  that upon such evidence they hold that certain  resultsfollow,	 I  think  it  is open,	 and  was  intended  by	 theCommissioners  that it should be open, to the court  to	 saywhether the evidence justified what the Commissioners held."These  observations  were explained by Hamilton	 J.  in	 TheAmerican Thread Co. v. Joyce (2) as implying that by  givingthe   material	on  which  their  finding  was	 based	 theCommissioners  were inviting the court to determine  whetheron  that  material  they could reason. ably  arrive  at	 theconclusion on which they did arrive.  The House of Lords  onappeal	categorically  confirmed  that	the  Courts  had  nojurisdiction over conclusions of fact except to see  whetherthere  was  evidence to justify them and that  proper  legalprinciples had been applied.Lord Clerk in Californian Copper Syndicate v. Harris (3) haslaid down the test in the following words:"  the	question to be determined being-Is the sum  of	gainthat has been made a mere enhancement of value by  realisinga security, or is it a gain made in an(1)  (1908) 5 T.C. 358, 374.(2)  (1911) 6 T.C. 1.(3) (1904) 5 T.C. 159, 166.56operation  of business in carrying out a scheme for  profit-making."In  that  case	the objects set out  in	 the  memorandum  ofassociation  pointed  distinctly  to  a	 highly	 speculativebusiness and the mode of actual procedure of the company wasalso   directed	  in  the  same	 direction.    Taking	intoconsideration  the  course of dealing of the shares  by	 thecompany	 and also that the turning of investment to  accountwas  not merely incidental but was an essential	 feature  ofthe business, speculation being among the appointed means ofthe company's business the court came to the conclusion thatthe company was carrying on a business.The Lord President in a Scottish case Cayzer, Irvine &	Co.,Ltd.  v.  Commissioners	 of Inland Revenue  (1)	 stated	 thegrounds on which the court can interfere with the finding ofthe Commissioner as follows:" I think we have jurisdiction to entertain the question  atlaw, which is whether the majority of the Commissioners werewarranted  on -the evidence in determining as they did.	  Atthe  narrowest it is always open to this Court in  a  StatedCase to review a finding in fact on the ground that there isno evidence to support it."Lord Parker in Farmer v. Trustees of the Late William Cotton(2)  after  referring to the  difficulty  of  distinguishingbetween a question of fact and a question of law observed:" Where all the material facts are fully found, and the onlyquestion is whether the facts are such as to bring the	casewithin	the provisions properly construed of some  statutoryenactment, the question is one of law only."But  this statement of the law was considerably modified  inInland	Revenue	 Commissioners v. Lysaght (3) where  it	 washeld  that if the issue before the court could be  describedas a "question of degree" the conclusion must be a  questionof fact.(1)  (1942) 24 T.C. 491, 501.(2)  [19I5] A.C. 922,932.(3)   [1928] A.C. 234.57The Commissioners of Inland Revenue v. The Korean Syndicate,Ltd. (1) was a case where a syndicate was registered for thepurpose	 of  acquiring and working concessions	and  turningthem  to account, and of investing and dealing	with  moniesnot immediately required.  The syndicate acquired part of  aright  to a concession in Korea and then under an  agreementdescribed  as a "lease", in consideration of receiving	sumsof   money   termed  "royalties"  but  which   were   reallypercentages  of profits made by assignee  company,  assignedthe lease to a development company.  Some moneys which	werereceived  from	sale  of  certain  shares  obtained  by	 thesyndicate in exchange for shares originally acquired in	 themining company were deposited in a bank.  The activities  ofthe  company  were during the relevant	period	confined  toreceiving the bank interest and royalties, distributing	 theamount	amongst its shareholders as dividend.  The  questionfor  decision  was whether the syndicate was carrying  on  abusiness  and was therefore liable to excess  profits  duty.From these facts it was concluded that they were carrying ona business.Atkinson  L.J. pointed out at p. 204 that merely  because  acompany is incorporated it does not necessarily follow	thatit is carrying on business.- Its memorandum only shows	thatthe  company was incorporated for a particular	purpose	 buttaking into consideration the surrounding circumstances	 andfacts  of  the case it was concluded that  the	company	 wascarrying on a business.In  Great Western Railway Company v. Bater (2) the  questionfor  decision was whether a clerk held a -public  office  tofall  within Sch.  E. It was held that the determination  bythe  Commissioners of questions of pure fact are not  to  bedisturbed unless it should appear that there was no evidencebefore them upon which they, as reasonable men, could arriveat the conclusion which they came to.  Lord Atkinson said:" What I have many times in this House protested against  isthe  attempt to secure for a finding on a mixed question  oflaw and fact the unassailability(1) (1921) 12 T.C, 181.	 (2) (1922) 8 T.C. 231, 244.858which  belongs only to a finding on questions of pure  fact.This  is sought to be affected by styling the finding  on  amixed question of law and fact a finding of fact."According  to the dictum of Lord Wrenbury the  question	 forthe  Court was whether on the facts found and stated by	 theCommissioners  the clerk held the office within the  meaningof the Act which was a question oflaw.In  Lysaght v. The Commissioners of Inland Revenue  (1)	 thequestion  for  decision	 was  whether  the  assessee  was  aresident  and ordinarily resident in United Kingdom  in	 theyear of assessment.  Lord Buckmaster said:." The distinction between questions of fact and questions oflaw  is	 difficult  to It is, of course, true  that  if	 thecircumstances found by the Commissioners in the Special Caseare  incapable	of constituting residence  their  conclusioncannot	be  protected by saying that it is a  conclusion  offact since there are no materials upon which that conclusioncould  depend.	But if the incidents relating to  visits  inthis country are of such a nature that they might constituteresidence, and their prolonged or repeated repetition  wouldcertainly  produce  that result, then the matter must  be  amatter	of degree; and the determination of whether  or	 notthe  degree  extends  so far as to make a  man	resident  orordinarily resident here is for the Commissioners and it  isnot  for the Courts to say whether they would  have  reachedthe same conclusion."Jones  v.  Leeming(2) was a case where the  respondent	withthree other -persons obtained an option to purchase a rubberestate	in  the	 Malay Peninsula.  That	 estate	 along	withanother was sold at a profit.  The Commissioners found	thatthe  respondent	 had  acquired the property  with  the	soleobject	of turning it over again at a profit and at no	timehad  he the intention of holding it.  This  transaction	 washeld  not  to  be in the nature of  trade  nor	the  profitsarising	 therefrom  in the nature of income  but  they	wereaccretions to(1) (1928) 13 T.C. 511, 533, 534.(2) [1930] A.C. 4I5.59capital	 and therefore not subject to tax under Case  VI  ofSch.  D.In  Cameron v. Prendergast (1) the following test  was	laiddown by Viscount Maugham:"  Inferences  from facts stated by  the  Commissioners	 arematters	 of law, and can be questioned on appeal.  The	sameremark is true as to the construction of documents.  If	 theCommissioners			state			 theevidence.............................................. it isopen to the court to differ from such holding."In Bomford v. Osborne (2) a farm was working as a mixed farmbut as a single unit.  The question for decision was whetherthe assessment could be apportioned one part being  assessedas  a farm and the other as a nursery.	Viscount Simon	laiddown the test in the following words:"  No  doubt there are many cases  in  which  Commissioners,having had proved or admitted before them a series of facts,may   deduce   therefrom  further  conclusions	 which	 arethemselves  conclusions	 of  pure  fact.   In  such   cases,however, the determination in point of law is that the factsproved	 or  admitted  provide	evidence  to   support	 theCommissioner's	conclusions."  It was also  held  that	thisquestion was a mixed question of law and fact.Du  Parcq  J.  in  J.  H.  Bean	 v.  Doncaster	 AmalgamatedCollieries  Ltd.(3)  held the following to be the  test	 fordetermining whether the question is one of fact or law:" Unless the Commissioners, having found the relevant  factsand put to themselves the proper question, have proceeded togive  the right answer, they may be said, on this  view,  tohave erred in point of law.  If an inference from facts doesnot  logically	accord with and follow from them,  then	 onemust  say that there is no evidence to support it.  To	cometo a conclusion which there is no evidence to support is  tomake an error in law."(1)  [1940] 2 All E.R. 35, 40.	(3) [1944] 2 All  E.R.	279,284.(2)  [1941] 2 All E.R. 426, 430.60In  Edward  v. Bairstow (1) the respondent embarked  upon  ajoint  venture to purchase a spinning plant with the  objectof holding it for quick resale and at a profit.	 The GeneralCommissioners found that there was no venture in the  natureof  trade  but	the  court held that  the  facts  found	 ledinevitably  to	the conclusion that the	 transaction  was  aventure	 in the nature of trade and that the  Commissioners'inference to the contrary was erroneous.Lord Simonds observed at p. 54 that:"  To say that a transaction is, or is not, an adventure  inthe  nature of trade is to say that it has, or has not,	 thecharacteristics which distinguish such an adventure.  But itis  a  question	 of  law,  not	of  fact,  what	 are   thosecharacteristics.........At p. 55 Lord Radcliffe pointed out:" I think that it is a question of law what meaning is to begiven	to  the	 words	of  the	 Income	 Tax   Act   "trade,manufacture,  adventure or concern in the nature  of  trade"and  for  that matter what constitutes	"profits  or  gains"arising from it.  Here we have a statutory phrase  involvinga  charge of tax, and it is for the courts to interpret	 itsmeaning,  having regard to the context in which	 it  occurs,and  to	 the  principles which they bring  to  bear  on	 themeaning of income." and then at p. 57 laid down the test  inthe following words:"  When the case comes before the court, it is its  duty  toexamine the determination having regard to its knowledge  ofthe  relevant law.  If the case contains anything  ex  faciewhich  is bad law and which bears on the  determination,  itis, obviously, erroneous in point of law.  But, without	 anysuch  misconception appearing ex facie, it may be  that	 thefacts  found are such that no person acting  judicially	 andproperly  instructed as to the relevant law could have	cometo the determination under appeal."The  dicta of Warrington L.J. in Cooper v. Stubbs  (2)	thatintervention by a court is proper only:(1) [1955] 3 All E.R. 48.(2) [1925] 2 K.B. 753, 768, 772.61missioners  have come to their conclusion  without  evidencewhich  should  support it, that is to say, have	 come  to  aconclusion  which  on the evidence no reason-'	able  personcould arrive at, or have misdirected themselves in point  oflaw." and of Atkin L.J. that:to  one conclusion of law..." were quoted with	approval  byLord Radcliffe at pp. 56 and 57.A review of these authorities shows that though the  Englishdecisions  began  with	a  broad  definition  of  what	 arequestions of law, ultimately the House of Lords decided thata  "matter of degree" is a question of fact and it has	alsobeen  decided that a finding by the Commissioners of a	factunder  a  misapprehension  of law or  want  of	evidence  tosupport a finding are both questions of law.The   Privy  Council  in  Commissioner	of   Income-tax	  v.Laxminarain Badridas (1) said:"  No  question of law was involved; nor is it	possible  toturn  a	 mere  question of fact into a question	 of  law  byasking	whether	 as a matter of law the officer	 came  to  acorrect conclusion upon a matter of fact.  "Bose  J.  in  Seth Suwallal  Chhogalal	v.  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax(2) stated the test as follows:" A fact is a fact irrespective of the evidence by which  itis  proved.   The only time a question of law can  arise  insuch a case is when it is alleged that there is no  materialon  which  the	conclusion can be  based  or  no  sufficientmaterial."Sufficiency  of evidence was explained to mean	whether	 theIncome-tax  authority considered its existence	so  probablethat a prudent man ought under the circumstances of the caseto act upon the supposition that it exists.The  question  for  decision  in  Dhirajlal  Girdharilal  v.Commissioner  of Income-tax, Bombay(3) was whether  a  Hinduundivided family was carrying on business in(1) [1937] 5 I.T.R. I70, 179.  (3) [1954] 26 I.T.R. 736.(2)  [1949] 17 I.T.R. 269, 277.62shares and it was held that this was a question of fact	 butif  the	 Appellate Tribunal decided the question  by  takinginto  consideration  materials which are irrelevant  to	 theenquiry	 or partly relevant and partly irrelevant  or  basedits decision partly on conjectures then in such a  situationan issue of law arises, which would be subject to review  bythe  court  and the finding given by the Tribunal  would  bevitiated.The  result of the authorities is that inference from  factswould be a question of fact or of law according as the pointfor determination is one of pure fact or a mixed question oflaw and fact and that a finding of fact without evidence  tosupport it or if based on relevant and irrelevant matters isnot unassailable.The  limits of the boundary dividing questions of  fact	 andquestions  of law were laid down by this court in  MeenakshiMills,	Madurai	 v. Commissioner of Income-tax,	 Madras	 (1)where the question for decision was whether certain  profitsmade and shown in the name of certain intermediaries were infact  profits  actually	 earned	 by  the  assessee  or	 theintermediaries.	  Taking  the  course of  dealings  and	 theextent	 of  the  transaction  and  the	 position   of	 theintermediaries	and all the evidence into consideration	 theTribunal came to the conclusion that the intermediaries weredummies	  brought  into	 existence  by	the  appellant	 forconcealing the true amount of profits and that the sales  intheir  name  were  sham	 and  fictitious  and  profits	wereactually earned by the assessee.  The test laid down by thisCourt  is  to  be  found in the	 various  passages  in	thatjudgment.   At p. 701 Venkatarama Ayyar J. pointed out	thatquestions of fact are not open to review by the court unlessthey are unsupported by any evidence or are perverse.  At p.706 it was observed :" In between the domains occupied respectively by  questionsof  fact  and of law, there is a large area  in	 which	boththese  questions  run into each other, forming	so  to	say,enclaves  within each other.  The questions that  arise	 fordetermination  in that area are known as mixed questions  oflaw   and   fact.   These  questions   involve	 first	 theascertainment  of facts on the evidence adduced and  then  adetermination of the(1)  [1956] S.C.R. 691.63rights	of the parties on an application of the	 appropriateprinciples of law to the facts ascertained.The law was thus summed up at p. 720:(1)  When the point for determination is a pure question  oflaw such as construction of a statute or document of  title,the  decision  of the Tribunal is open to reference  to	 thecourt under s. 66 (1).(2)  When the point for determination is a mixed question oflaw and fact, while the finding of the Tribunal on the factsfound  is final its decision as to the legal effect of	thatfinding	 is a question of law which can be reviewed  by	 thecourt.(3)  A finding on a question of fact is open to attack unders.  66	(1) as erroneous in law if there is no	evidence  tosupport it or if it is perverse.(4)  When  the finding is one of fact, the fact that  it  isitself	an inference from other basic facts will  not  alterits character as one of fact.In the instant case the Appellate Tribunal in its  appellateorder has set out the amount of profits made by the assesseecompany	 in the years of assessment 1943-44 to 1948-49.	  Ithas  also mentioned the inconsistent positions taken  up  bythe assessee in first claiming to be a dealer and then to bean  investor which according to the Tribunal was due to	 thefact  that it was incurring losses in the earlier years	 andhad begun making profits when the claim of being an investorwas  put  forward.   But the two basic facts  on  which	 theTribunal has based its findings are:(1)  the objects set out in the memorandum of association ofthe assessee company; (2) the previous assertion by the assessee company that  itwas a dealer in investments and not merely an investor.Counsel	 for the assessee relies on the decision  of  KishanPrasad & Co., Ltd. v. Commissioner of Incometax, Punjab	 (1)where  this  Court  held that  the  circumstance  whether  atransaction  is or is not within the powers of	the  companyhas  no bearing on the nature of the transaction or  on	 thequestion  whether the profits arising therefrom are  capitalor  revenue income and, therefore, it is contended that	 theTribunal has(1)  [1955] 27 I.T.R. 49.64relied upon an irrelevant circumstance.	 Counsel for Revenueon  the other hand refer to the judgment  in  LakshminarayanRam Gopal  v. Government of Hyderabad (1) where the  objectsof  an incorporated company were held not to  be  conclusivebut  relevant for the purpose of determining the nature	 andscope  of  its activities.  Merely because the	company	 haswithin its objects the dealing in investment in shares	doesnot  give to it the characteristics of a dealer	 in  shares.But  if other circumstances are proved it may be a  relevantconsideration  for the purpose of determining the nature  ofactivities  of an assessee.  Whether in the instant case  itwill have any relevance because of other materials on  whichthe assessee company was relying in support of its case thatit  was merely an investor and not a dealer will have to  beconsidered when the suggested questions of law are answered.As  to	what  are the characteristics  of  the	business  ofdealing in shares or that of an investor is a mixed questionof  fact  and law.  What is the legal effect  of  the  factsfound  by the Tribunal and whether as a result the  assesseecan  be termed a dealer or an investor is itself a  questionof law.The  questions	of law that arise out of the  order  of	 theTribunal are:(1)Whether there are any materials on the record to  supportthe  finding  of the Income-tax Officer	 that  the  assesseecompany	 was a dealer in shares, securities  and  immoveableproperty during the assessment year in question ?(2)Whether  the profits and losses arising from the sale  ofshares, securities and immoveable properties of the assesseecompany can be taxed as business profits ?We would therefore allow this appeal, set aside the order ofthe  High  Court and remit the case to the  High  Court	 fordirecting the Tribunal to state a case on the aforesaid	 twoquestions.  The appellant will have its costs in this  Courtand  in	 the High Court for the proceedings  so	 far  taken.Further costs will be in the discretion of the High Court.Appeal allowed.	 Case remitted.(1)  [1955] I.S.C.R. 393; [1954] 25 I.T.R. 449.65