PETITIONER:THE STATE OF BIHAR	Vs.RESPONDENT:RAM NARESH PANDEY(With Connected Appeal)DATE OF JUDGMENT:31/01/1956BENCH:ACT:Criminal   law-Prosecution-Application	for  withdrawal	  byPublic -Prosecutor-Consent of Court-Function of the Court ingiving	such  consent-Case triable by  a  Court	 of  SessionWhether	 application  for  withdrawal does not	lie  in	 thecommittal  stage'  Tried'  'judgment',	Meaning	 of-Code  ofCriminal Procedure, 1898 (Act V of 1898), s. 494.HEADNOTE:By  s.	494 Of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898:  "	 AnyPublic	Prosecutor  may, with the consent of the  Court,  incases tried by jury before the return of the verdict, and inother cases before the judgment is pronounced, withdraw fromthe prosecution of any person either generally or in respectof  any one or more of the offences for which he is  tried,'and upon such withdrawal,-(a) if it is made before a  chargehas been framed, the accused shall be discharged in  respectof  such  offence or offences ; (b) if it is  made  after  acharge has been framed, or when under this Code no charge isrequired,  he shall be acquitted in respect of such  offenceor offences."The  prosecution of M. and others was launched on the  firstinformation of the first respondent, and when the matter waspending	 before the Magistrate in the, committal  stage	 andbefore any evidence was actually taken, and 'application forthe  withdrawal of M. from the prosecution was made  by	 thePublic	Prosecutor  under  s. 494 Of the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure on the ground that " on the evidence available  itwould  not  :be	 just  and expedient  to  proceed  with	 theprosecution  of M." The Magistrate was of the  opinion	thatthere was no reason to withhold the consent that was appliedfor  and accordingly he discharged the accused.	 This  orderwas upheld by the Sessions judge, but on280revision, filed by the respondents, the High Court set asidethe order and directed the Magistrate to record the evidenceand  then   consider whether it established a  -Prima  faciecase  against the accused.  The State appealed	against	 theorder  of  the	High Court    by special  leave,  while	 therespondents  sought to support the order on the grounds	 (1)that where the application for withdrawal of the prosecutionis  made  on  the ground of no evidence or  no	adequate  orreliable  evidence  the Magistrate must hold  a	 preliminaryenquiry	 into the relevant evidence, and (2) that in a	casetried  by jury by a Court of Session, an application by	 thePublic	Prosecutor under S. 594 Of the Code does not lie  inthe committal stage.Held  : (1) Though the function of the Court in	 giving	 theconsent	 under s. 594 of the Code is a judicial one,  it  isnot  necessary that the discretion is to be  exercised	onlywith reference to material gathered by the judicial  method,and  what the Court has to do is to satisfy itself that	 theexecutive function of the Public Prosecutor in applying for,withdrawal  of	the  prosecution  has  not  been  improperlyexercised,  or that it is not an attempt to  interfere	withthe  normal  course of justice for illegitimate	 reasons  orpurposes. (2) The word " tried " in s. 494 Of the Code is not used inany  limited sense and the section is wide enough  to  coverevery kind of inquiry and trial, and applicable to all caseswhich are capable of terminating either in a discharge or inan acquittal according to the stage at which the applicationfor withdrawal is made.An order of committal which terminates the proceeding so faras the inquiring Court is concerned is a " judgment " withinthe meaning of s. 494 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.Giribala Dasee v. Mader Gazi, (1932) I.L.R. 60 Cal 233,	 andViswanadham   v.  Madan	 Singh,,  I.L.R.  (1949)  Mad.	 64,approved.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeals  Nos.  53and 54 of 1956.Appeals	 by special leave from the judgment and order  datedMay  31, 1955, of the Patna High Court in Criminal  RevisionNo. 102 of 1955, arising out of the judgment and order datedJanuary	 10,  1955, of the Court of the	 Sessions  Judge  ofManbhum-Singhbhum of Purulia in Criminal Re-vision No. 43 of1954.Mahabir	 Prasad,  Advocate-General of Bihar,  Tarakesh.	 warNath and S. P. Verma, for the appellant in Appeal No, 53 andfor respondent No, 3 in Appeal No. 54,			    281H.   J. Umrigar and A. G. Ratnaparkhi, for the appellant  inAppeal No. 54.Jai Gopal Sethi and Govind Saran Singh, for the	 respondentsin Appeal No. 53 and for respondents' Nos. 1 and 2 in AppealNo. 54.1957.  January 31.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyJAGANNADHADAS  J.-These	 appeals arise out of  an  order  ofdischarge  passed  by the  Subordinate	Judge-Magistrate  ofDhanbad	 under s. 494 of the Code of Criminal  Procedure  onhis  consenting to the withdrawal of the  Public  Prosecutorfrom  a prosecution pending before him in so far as  it	 wasagainst	 the  appellant.  Mahesh Desai, one of	the  accusedtherein.    The	 prosecution  was  launched  on	 the   firstinformation  of one Ram Naresh Pandey as against 28  personsabout  the  commission	of  the murder	of  one	 Nand  KumarChaubey,  a peon of a colliery in Bagdigi, committed in	 thecourse	of  a serious riot on February 20, 1954.   This	 wassaid  to  have resulted from differences between  two  rivallabour-unions in connection with a strike.  The	 prosecutionas  against  most  of the other	 persons  is  under  varioussections  of the Indian Penal Code including s. 302, on	 theground	of their actual participation in the  commission  ofthe murder.  But as against the appellant, Mahesh Desai,  itis only under s. 302 /109 of the Indian Penal Code, the partascribed  to him in the first information report being	thathe  abetted  the murder by reason of  certain  speeches	 andexhortations at meetings or group-talks the day previous  tothe  murder.  The application for withdrawal as against	 theappellant was made on December 6, 1954, when the matter	 waspending	 before	 the Magistrate in the committal  stage	 andbefore any evidence was actually taken.	 It was made by	 thePublic	Prosecutor  on	the ground  that"  on  the  evidenceavailable it would not be just and expedient to proceed withthe  prosecution of Sri Mahesh Desai and that  therefore  itwas necessary to withdraw the case against Sri Mahesh  Desaionly  ".  It  was elicited in the course  of  the  argumentsbefore	the  learned Magistrate. that the  position  of	 thePublic36282Prosecutor  was, that the evidence regarding the  complicityof this accused was meagre and that there WAS only, a singleitem of evidence of a dubious nature against him. which	 wasnot  likely  to establish a prima facie case.	The  learnedMagistrate dealt with the ,matter in a fairly reasoned orderand was of the opinion that there was no reason to  withholdthe consent that was applied for.  He accordingly dischargedthe accused.  That-order was upheld by 'the learned SessionsJudge on, revision petition against it filed jointly by	 thefirst  informant  in  the  case and by	the,  widow  of	 themurdered  person.  These private parties pursued the  matterfurther	 and  applied to the High Court' in  revision.	 Thelearned	 Chief Justice who dealt with it was of the  opinionthat the consent should not have been granted.	Accordingly,he set it aside.  The learned Chief Justice recognised	thatnormally in a matter of this kind the High Court should	 notinterfere.   But he felt called upon to set aside the  orderon  the	 ground that ,there' wag' no  judicial	exercise  ofdiscretion  in	the present case." He,	therefore,  directedthat  the  Magistrate should record the	 evidence  and	thenconsider  whether it establishes a prima facie case  againstthe  appellant, Mahesh Desai.  The Advocate General  of	 theState has come up before this Court against the order of thelearned	 Chief	Justice.  Leave was granted because  it	 wasurged  that the view taken by the learned Chief Justice	 wasbased	on   an	 erroneous  appreciation  of   the   legallypermissible  approach in a matter of this kind and that	 thedecision  of  the learned Chief Justice was likely  to	haverepercussions in the State -beyond what was involved in	 theparticular  case.  The aggrieved party, Mahesh	Desai,	alsohas  come  up by special leave and both	 these	appeals	 aredisposed of by this judgment.The,question  of  law  involved may  be	 gathered  from	 thefollowing   extracts  from  the	 learned   Chief   Justice'sjudgment."'This	is  not a case where there is no  evidence;  on	 thecontrary,  this	 is  a case where there	 is  evidence  whichrequire's  judicial  consideration..........  The  procedurewhich the learned Special Magistrate followed was			    283tantamount  to considering the sufficiency or  otherwise  ofevidence  before  the evidence has  been  heard........	 Thefunction  of  the Court would be surrendered to	 the  PublicProsecutor.   I	 do. not think that s. 494 of  the  Code  ofCriminal Procedure justifies, such a procedure..The  legal  question that arises from the above	 is  whetherwhere an application for withdrawal under s. 494 of the Codeof    Criminal	 Procedure  is	made  'on  the	 ground	  ofinsufficiency  or  meagreness of reliable evidence  that  isavailable, it is an improper exercise of discretion for	 theCourt to grant consent 'before evidence is taken, if it	 wasreasonably  satisfied,	otherwise,  that  the  evidence,  ifactually taken, is, not likely to result in- conviction.Section	 494  of  the Code of  Criminal	 Procedure  runs  asfollows:" Any Public Prosecutor may, with the consent of the  Court,in  cases tried by jury. before the returns of the  verdict,and  in	 other	cases; before the  judgment  is	 pronounced,withdraw   from	 the  prosecutions  of	any  person   eithergenerally  or in respect of any one or more of the  offencesfor which he is tried; and upon such withdrawal,-(a)if  it  is  made before a charge  has  been	framed,	 theaccused	 shall be discharged in respect of such	 offence  oroffences;(b)if  it  is made after a charge has been framed,  or	whenunder this Code no charge is required, he shall be acquittedin respect of such offence or offences".The  section  is  an enabling one and vests  in	 the  PublicProsecutor  the	 discretion to apply to the  Court  for	 itsconsent to withdraw from the prosecution of any person.	 Theconsent,'  if  granted;	 has  to  be,  followed	 up  by	 hisdischarge  or acquittal, as the case may be.   The  -sectiongives  no indication as to the, grounds on which the  PublicProsecutor may make the' application, or the considerations-on, which the Court is -to grant its consent.  There can  beno  doubt,  how	 ever,	that the  resultant  order,  on	 thegranting  of the consent, being an order of I discharge'  or'acuittal',  would attract the applicability  of  correctionby; the284High Court under es. 435, 436 and 439 or 417 of the Code  ofCriminal  Procedure.  The function of the Court,  therefore,in granting its consent may well be ,taken to be a  judicialfunction.  It follows that in granting the consent the Courtmust exercise a judicial discretion.  But it does not followthat  the discretion is to be exercised only with  referenceto material gathered by the judicial method.  Otherwise	 theapparently wide language of s. 494 would become considerablynarrowed  down	in its application.   In  understanding	 andapplying  the section, two main features thereof have to  bekept  in  mind,	 The  initiative  is  that  of	the   PublicProsecutor and what the Court has to do is only to give	 itsconsent and not to determine any matter judicially.  As ;thePrivy  Council	has pointed out in Bawa Faqir Singh  v.	 TheKing  Emperor(1) " It (section 494 of the Code	of  CriminalProcedure)  gives  a general executive	discretion  (to	 thePublic Prosecutor) to withdraw from the prosecution  subjectto  the	 consent of the Court,, which may be  determined  onmany  possible grounds." The judicial  function,  therefore,implicit  in  the exercise of the  judicial  discretion	 forgranting the consent would normally mean that the Court	 hasto satisfy itself that the executive function of the  PublicProsecutor has not been improperly exercised, or that it  isnot  an	 attempt  to interfere with  the  normal  course  ofjustice	 for  illegitimate  reasons or	purposes.   In	thiscontext	 it is right to remember that the Public  Prosecutor(though an executive officer as stated by the Privy  Councilin Bawa Faqir Singh v. The King Emperor(1)) is, in a  largersense, also an officer of the Court and that he is bound  toassist	the  Court with his fairly-considered view  and	 theCourt  is entitled to have the benefit of the fair  exerciseof his function.  It has also to be appreciated that in thiscountry,  the  scheme  of  the	administration	of  criminaljustice	 is that the primary responsibility  of	 prosecutingserious	  offences  (which  are	 classified  as	  cognizableoffences) is on the executive authorities.  Once informationof   the  commission  of  any  such  offence   reaches	 theconstituted(1)  (1938) L. R. 65 I. A. 388, 395.			    285authorities, the investigation, including collection of	 therequisite evidence, and the prosecution for the offence withreference  to  such  evidence,	are  the  functions  of	 theexecutive.   But  the  Magistrate  also	 has  his   allottedfunctions  in the course of these stages.  For instance,  inthe  course  of	 investigation, a person  arrested  must  bebrought	 before	 him within 24 hours (s. 61 of the  Code  ofCriminal Procedure).  Continuance of the arrested person  indetention  for purposes of investigation from time  to	timehas  to	 be  authorised by him (s. 167).  A  search  can  beconducted   on	the  issue  of	warrant	 by  him  (s.	96).Statements  of witnesses and confessions may be recorded  byhim  (s.  164).	  In  an  appropriate  case  he	 can   orderinvestigation  or;  further investigation  (ss.	 155(2)	 and202).	In  all	 these matters	he  exercises  discretionaryfunctions in respect of which the initiative is that of	 theexecutive but the responsibility is his.  His discretion  insuch matters has necessarily to be exercised with  referenceto such material as is by then available and is not a  primafacie  judicial determination of any specific  issue,.	 TheMagistrate's  functions	 in  these  matters  are  not	onlysupplementary,. at a higher level, to those of the executivebut  are intended to prevent abuse.  Section  494  requiringthe  consent  of  the Court for	 withdrawal  by	 the  PublicProsecutor  is more in line with this scheme, than with	 theprovisions  of the Code relating to inquiries and trials  byCourt.	 It  cannot  be	 taken to place	 on  the  Court	 theresponsibility for a prima facie determination of a  triableissue.	 For instance the discharge that  results  therefromneed not always conform to the standard of " no prima  faciecase " under ss. 209(1) and 253(1) or of " groundlessness  "under  ss.  209(2) and 253(2).	This is not to	say  that  aconsent	 is  to be lightly given on the application  of	 thePublic, Prosecutor, without a careful and proper scrutiny ofthe grounds on which the application for consent is made.A  large number of cases from the various High	Courts	havebeen cited before us.  We have carefully gone through  them.All of them recognise that the286function  of the Magistrate in giving consent is  a  judcialone  open  to correction.  But in some of them there  is  nosufficient  appreciation of the respective positions of	 thePublic prosecutor and the Court, in the discharge, of  theirfunctions  under s. 494 as we conceive. them to	 be.   Thereis,  however, a general concurrence-at least in	 the,  latercases-that the. application for consent may legitimately  bemade  by the Public Prosecutor for reasons not	confined  tothe judicial prospects of the prosecution. [See The King  v.Moule  Bux(1) and.  The King v. Parmanand(2).] If so, it  isclear  that,  what  the	 Court has  to	determine,  for	 theexercise  of  its  discretion  in  granting  or	 withholdingconsent, is not a triable issue on judicial evidence.Learned	 counsel for the respondents has  strenuously  urgedbefore	us  that while this may be so where the	 consent  isapplied	 for  on other grounds, or for	other  reasons,	 theposition  would not be the same, where the  application	 forconsent is made on the ground of no. evidence or no adequateor reliable evidence.  It is urged that in such a case,	 theCourt  can  exercise  its,  judicial  function,	 only  with,reference to judicially recorded evidence as in one or otherof the appropriate situations contemplated by the Code	for'judicial inquiry or trial.  If this argument means  anythingit  must  mean	that in such a situation  the  Court  beforegranting  consent  must hold a kind of	preliminary  inquiryinto  the  relevant evidence in much the same  way  as,	 forinstance'. when a Magistrate acting under s. 202 of the Codeof  Criminal  Procedure may direct or it must mean  that  noconsent	 can at all be given on such a ground and  that	 theCourt	must  proceed  with  the  prosecution,	and   eitherdischarge or acquit under one or other of the other sectionsin  the Code enabling hereunto.	 It appears to us that	thiswould  be  engrafting,	on  the, wide terms  of	 s.  494  anexception  or  &  proviso limited to such a  case.   In	 ouropinion, this would not be a permissible construction of thesection.  We are, therefore, unable, with great respect,  tosubscribe to the view taken by the learned Chief(1) A.I.R. 1949 Pat'233 (F.B.).(2) A.I.R. 1949 Pat. 222, 226 (F.B.).287Justice	 whose	judgment  is under appeal,  that  where	 theapplication  is	 on  the ground of  inadequacy	of  evidencerequiring  judicial  consideration, it would  be  manifestlyimproper  for  the Court to -consent to	 withdrawal  before'recording  the evidence and taking 'it	into  consideration.We are not to be understood, however, as implying that	suchevidence as may already have been recorded by the, time	 theapplication is made is not to be looked into and  consideredin such cases, in order to determine the impropriety of	 thewithdrawal as amounting to abuse or an improper interferencewith the normal course of justice.Learned counsel for the respondents has raised a fresh pointbefore	us  for	 maintaining the order	of  the	 High  Courtsetting	 aside	the  discharge	of  the	 appellant  by	 the-Magistrate.   The  point being purely one of law,  we	haveallowed	 it to be argued.  His contention is that in a	casetriable by a Court of Session, an application by the  PublicProsecutor for withdrawal with the consent of the Court doesnot  lie  in the committal stage.' He lays emphasis  on	 thewording of s. 494 which says that " in cases tried by  jury,any  Public, Prosecutor may, with the consent of the  Court,withdraw  from	the  prosecution of any	 person	 before	 thereturn	of  the verdict." This, according  to  him,  clearlyimplies	 that such withdrawal cannot be made until the	casereaches	 the  trial stage in the Sessions  Court.   He	alsorelies	on  the	 further  phrase in  the  section  "  eithergenerally  or in respect of any one or more of the  offensesfor which he is tried." The use' of the word 'tried' in thisphrase.	 confirms, according to him, the contention that  itis only when the case reaches the stage of trial that s. 494can  be availed of.  He draws our attention to a passage  inArchbold's  Criminal Pleading, Evidence and  Practice  (32ndEd.),pp.  108,	109, s. 12, that "a nolle prosequi  to	stayproceedings  upon an indictment -or information	 pending  inany Court may be entered, by leave of the Attorney  General,at the instance of either the prosecutor or the defendant atany time after the bill of indictment is signed, and  beforejudgment." He urges that it is this principle that has	beenrecognised in the first portion288of s. 494 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.  It appears  tous  that  the  analogy	of the	English	 practice  would  bemisleading  as	an aid to the construction of s.  494.	 Thescheme	of  our	 Criminal Procedure  Code  is  substantiallydifferent.  The provision corresponding to the power of	 theAttorney-General  to enter nolle prosequi is s. 333  of	 theCode  of Criminal Procedure which refers to jury  trials  inHigh Court.  The procedure under s. 494 does not  correspondto  it.	 The phrase " in other cases before the judgment  ispronounced " in s. 494 would, in the context, clearly  applyto all cases other than those tried by jury.  Now, there canbe no doubt that at least as regards these other cases, whenthe consent for withdrawal is given by the Court, the resultis  either  a discharge or an acquittal,  according  to	 thestage  to which that case has reached, having regard to	 thetwo  alternatives  (a)	and (b) of s. 494  of  the  Code  ofCriminal Procedure.  It follows that at least in every classof cases other than those tried by jury, the withdrawal	 canbe  at	any  stage of the entire  proceedings.	 This  wouldinclude also the stage of preliminary inquiry in a  Sessionscase  triable  without a jury.	But if the argument  of	 thelearned counsel for the respondents is accepted, that  powercannot	be exerciser at the preliminary inquiry stage,	onlyas  regards cases which must lead to a jury trial.   We	 canfind  no  conceivable  reason for  any	such  discriminationhaving	been  intended and prescribed by the Code.   We	 areunable to construe s. 494 as involving any such	 limitation.The wording is perfectly wide and general and would apply toall classes of cases which are capable of terminating eitherin a discharge or in an acquittal, according to the stage atwhich  the  section is invoked.	 The whole argument  of	 thelearned	 counsel is based upon the use of the  word  ,tried'and  he	 ehaphasises  the  'well-known	distinction  between'inquiry'  and	'trial'	 in the scheme	of  the	 Code.	 Ourattention has also been drawn to the definition of the	word'inquiry' in s. 4 (k) of the Code which runs as follows:"'Inquiry   includes  every  inquiry  other  than  a   trialconducted under this Code by a Magistrate or Court."			    289There  is  hardly anything in this definition  which  throwslight-on  the question whether the word 'trial', is used  inthe  relevant  section in a limited sense  as  excluding  aninquiry.   The	word  'trial' is not defined  in  the  Code.'Trial' according to Stroud's Judicial Dictionary means "theconclusion,  by a competent tribunal, of questions in  issuein  legal  proceedings, whether civil  or  criminal"(1)	 andaccording  to Wharton's Law Lexicon means "the hearing of  acause,	 civil	 or  criminal,	before	a  judge   who	 hasjurisdiction over it, according to the laws of the land"(2).The  words  'tried' and 'trial' appear to have no  fixed  oruniversal meaning.  No doubt, in quite a number of  sectionsin' the Code to which our attention has been drawn the words'tried' and trial' have been used in the sense of  referenceto a stage after the inquiry.  That meaning attaches to	 thewords  in  those sections having regard to  the	 context  inwhich  they  are used.' There is no reason why	where  thesewords  are used in another context in the Code, they  shouldnecessarily   be   limited   in	  their	  connotation	 andsignificance.  They are words which must be considered	withregard to the particular context in which they are used	 andwith  regard  to the, scheme and purpose  of  the  provisionunder consideration.An  argument has also been advanced by the  learned  Counselfor  the  respondents  before us by referring  to  the	word"judgment" in the phrase "in other cases before the judgmentis  pronounced" in s. 494 as indicating that the phrase	 "inother  oases" can refer only to proceedings which end  in  aregular	  judgment  and	 not  in  any  interim	order	likecommitment.   Here  again the difficulty in the way  of	 thecontention  of the learned Counsel being accepted,  is	thatthe word "judgment" is not defined.  It is a word of generalimport and means only "judicial determination or decision ofa  Court".  (See Wharton's Law Lexicon, 14th Ed.,  p.  545).There  is no reason to think in the context of this  sectionthat  it  is not applicable to an order of  committal  whichterminates the proceeding so far as the inquiring Court(1)  Stroud's judicial Dictionary, 3rd Ed., VOl. 4, P. 3092.(2)  Wharton's Law Lexicon, 14th Ed., p. 101.37290is  concerned.	 It may be, that in the context	 of  ChapterXXVI  of the Code judgment may have a limited  meaning.	  Inany  view,  even  if 'judgment, in this	 context  is  to  beunderstood  in a limited sense, it does not follow  that  anapplication during preliminary inquiry-which is	 necessarilyprior to judgment in the trial-is excluded. The  history  of  s. 494 of the present  Code	of  CriminalProcedure  (Act	 V of 1898) confirms the  above	 view.	 Theprovision  for withdrawal by the Public Prosecutor with	 theconsent	 of  the Court appears, for the first time,  in	 theCode  of Criminal Procedure,; 1872 (Act X of 1872) as s.  61thereof and runs as follows:The  public  prosecutor may, with the consent of  the  Courtwithdraw -any charge against any person in any case of whichhe  is	'Charge; and upon such withdrawal, if  it,  is	madewhilst	the case is under inquiry, the accused person  shallbe  discharged.	 If it is made when he is under	 trial,	 theaccused person shall be acquitted."In the next Code of 1882 (Act X of 1882) this appears as  s.494 thereof and runs as follows:"Any Public Prosecutor appointed by the Covernor-General  inCouncil or the Local Government may, with the consent of theCourts,	 in  cases tried by jury before the  return  of	 theverdict,   and	in  other  cases  before  the  judgment	  ispronounced,  withdraw from the prosecution. of	any  person;and, upon such withdrawal,(a)  if	 it  is made before a charge has  been	framed,	 theaccused shall 'be discharged;(b)  if	 it is made after a charge has been framed, or	whenunder  this  Code,  no	charge	is  required,  he  shall  beacquitted."It may be noticed that there has been a complete  redraftingof  the	 section which brings about  two  alterations.	thissection seems to have remained as such in the 1898 Code (ActV of 1898).  The next modification in the section appears tohave  been  made by Act XVIII of 1923  -which  inserted	 thephrase "either generally or in respect of any one or more ofthe    offences	 for which he is tried" in  the	 appropriateplace			    291in  s.	494  as it stood in the 1882 Code  (in	addition  toomitting'  the phrase "appointed by the Governor General  inCouncil	 or Local Government").	 The present s. 494  is	 thecorresponding  section in the 1882 Code as so  altered.	  Itwill  be  thus seen there are altogether  three	 substantialchanges in between 1872 and 1923 in the corresponding s.  61of  the 1872 Code.  The first two changes made in 1882	wereobviously  intended  to indicate that the result by  way  ofdischarge or acquittal should depend not on the	 distinctionbetween	 inquiry  and  trial but, on the fact  of  a  chargehaving	been framed or not having been framed.	 The  secondwas to clarif that the application can be made generally  upto tie point when judgment is pronounced but to provide	 foran exception thereto in respect of cases which in fact	havegone up for a jury trial, in which case the applicati on canbe  made only up to the point of time before the verdict  ispronounced.   The third change in 1923 was to make it  clearthat  the  withdrawal need not be in respect of	 the  entirecase  against a particular individual but in respect of	 oneor  more  only	of  the	 charges  for  which  he  is   beingprosecuted.  These three changes, therefore, were introducedfor  spcific purposes which are obvious.  The section as  itoriginally stood in 1872 was quite wide enough to cover	 allclasses of cases not excluding even jury cases when it is inthe  stage of preliminary inquiry.  There is  absolutely  noreason to think that these successive, changes were intendedto  exclude such a preliminary inquiry from the scope of  s.494  as	 it has finally emerged.  It may also  be  mentionedthat  the words " inquiry' and 'trial' were both defined  inthe Code of 1872 but that the definition of the word 'trial'was omitted, in the 1882 Code and that latter on in the 1898Code  the  definition  of the  word  inquiry'  was  slightlyaltered	 by adding the ,phrase "Other than a trial"  leavingthe,  word  'trial' undefined.	 These	various	 legislativechanges from time to time with reference to s, 494 and	the'definition  of	the 'word inquiry' confirm  the	 view  abovetaken  that  s. 494 is wide enough to cover  every  kind  ofinquiry and trial and that the word trial' in the, section292has  not been used in any limited sense.  Substantially	 thesame view has been taken in Giribala Dasee v. Madar Gazi (1)and  Viswanadham v. Madan Singh(2) and we are  in  agreementwith the reasoning therein as regards this question.As  regards the merits of the appeals, the matter lies in  ashort  compass.	  AB already stated the application  by	 thePublic Prosecutor was made before any evidence was taken  inthe  committal stage.  The only materials then available  tothe  Public Prosecutor or to the Court were the contents  ofthe first information report and any statements of witnessesthat may have been taken by the police during investigation.What is alleged against the appellant, Mahesh Desai, in	 thefirst information report can be gathered from the following:"These persons, viz., Mahesh Desai and others,regularly heldmeetings  and advocated for closing Bagdigi cable plant	 andcoke  plant and assaulting the "dalals'.  Yesterday,  Fridaymorning when some labourers were going to resume their	workin  8  No.  pit, at Lodna  the	striking  labourers  createddisturbance  there and the labourers of that place who	weregoing  to  resume work could not do so.	 At about 11  a.  m.Mahesh Desai the leader of the Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat cameto Bagdigi and told the labourers of this place to stop	 allwork,  to  hold	 on to their posts and to see  that  no	 oneworked.	  At  the  instance of Mahesh  Desai  the  labourersstopped the work.  Last night at about 11-30 p.m. when I wasin  my	quarter at Lodna, Jadubans Tiwary,  the	 overman  ofBagdigi	 Colliery, said that Sheoji Singh and Ramdhar  Singh'had told him that in the evening at about 6-30 p.m.  MaheshDesai came to Bagdigi Mahabir Asthan Chala, collected 120 to125 labourers and held a meeting and Mahesh Desai said	thathe  had come to know that the company and its  dalals  wouldtake some labourers to pit No. 10 this morning to resume thework and they would get the work resumed by them.  In  this'morning Phagu Dusadh, Jalo Dusadh, Chamari Dusadh and otherswere (sic) took part.  Mahesh Desai said to(1)  [1932] I.L.R. 6o Cal. 233.(2)  I.L.R. [1949] Mad. 64.			    293them  " You go to your respective works and see that no	 oneworks there happen what may.  You remain, prepared in  everyrespect.   The	labourers of Lodna will also  come  to	yourhelp.  The police will not be able to do any harm to you  ".The  meeting dispersed at about 7-30 o'clock.  Mahesh  Desaiwent by his Jeep from Mahabir Asthan to pit No. 10 and	toldthe  labourers there to stick to their strike.	Then  Phagu,Jalo and Haricharan Dusadh of Bagdigi began to talk with himnear the Jeep.	Jadubans Tewary heard Mahesh Desai saying  "It  is necessary for us to finish the dalals  for  achievingvictory.   You	remain prepared for this".  Saying  this  heboarded his Jeep and at the end Mahesh Desai said to  Phagu,Haricharan  and Jalo Dusadh " Finish all.  What will  happenwill  be  seen ". Thereafter Mahesh Desai went away  by	 hisJeep and Phagu.	 Jalo and Haricharaa came back."The  first  information report continues to state  what	 allhappened the next day by way of rioting, etc. in the  courseof  which  Phagu,  Jalo and Haricharan	Dusadh,	 along	withothers	were  said  to have chased Nand	 Kumar	Chaubey	 andwherein Phaou gave a pharsa blow and Haricharan a lathi blowto  him	 and  Nand Kumar Chaubey fell  down  dead.   In	 theclosing	  portion  of  the  first  information	report	 theinformant states as follows:I  make this statement before you that (having,	 instigated)yesterday evening in the meeting and having instigated PhaguDusadh,	 Jalo Dusadh and Haricharan Dusadh near pit No.	 10,and having got a mob of about one thousand persons collectedto-day in the morning by Harbans Singh and other workers  ofhis union Mahesh Desai got the murder of Nand Kumar  Chaubeycommitted by Phagu Dusadh, Jalo Dusadh and Haricharan Dusadhto-day at 8-15 a.m. with lathi and pharsa."It is clear from this that what is ascribed to Mahesh  Desaiis that he is alleged to have exhorted the laborers once  in-the morning at 11 a.m. and again in the night at 6-30	p.m.as also at 7-30 p.m. As regards the exhortation at 11 a.  m.it  is	not quite clear from the  first	 information  reportwhether the294informant speak,% to his personal knowledge or what he heardfrom  the  labourers.	As  regards what  is  said  to	havetranspired  at	6-30 p.m. and 7-30 p.m., it  appears  to  bereasonably clear that the person who gave the information tothe  informant was Jadubans Tiwary and that his	 informationitself	was probably based on what Sheoji Singh and  RamdharSingh  had told him.  It would be seen, therefore, that	 theprosecution  must  depend  upon	 the  evidence	of  JadubansTiwary,	 and possibly of Sheoji Singh and Ramdhar Singh	 andthat  what  these three persons could speak to was  at	bestonly  as  to  the exhortation made by Mahesh  Desai  at	 thevarious	 stages.  Presumably, these witnesses were  examinedby  the police in the course of the investigation.  Now,  onthis  material, we find it difficult to appreciate  why	 theopinion arrived at by both the trial court and the  SessionsCourt  that the' view taken of that material by	 the  PublicProsecutor,  viz., that it was meagre evidence on  which  noconviction  could  be  asked for, should be said  to  be  soimproper  that the consent of the Court under s. 494 of	 theCode  of  Criminal Procedure has to be withheld.   Even	 theprivate complainant who was allowed to participate in  theseproceedings  in all its stages, does not, in  his  objectionpetition,  or revision petitions, indicate the	availabilityof  any other material or better material.  Nor,  could	 thecomplainant's counsel, in the course of arguments before  usinform us that there was any additional material  available.In the situation, therefore, excepting for the view that  noorder to withdraw should be passed in such cases either as amatter	of  law	 or as a matter of propriety  but  that	 thematter	should	be disposed of only after the  evidence,  isjudicially  taken,  we	apprehend  that	 the  learned  ChiefJustice himself would not have felt called upon to interferewith  the  order of the Magistrate in the  exercise  of	 hisrevisional jurisdiction.,We are, therefore, clearly of the opinion, for all the abovereasons,  that	the order of the High Court  should  be	 setaside  and the appeals allowed.	 Accordingly, the  order  ofthe trial court is hereby restored.			    295There -was some question raised before us as to whether	 theprivate	 complainants could be allowed,' to  participate  inthese  proceedings at the various stages.  Nothing  that  wehave  -said  is	 intended  to  indicate	 that  the   privatecomplainant has a locus standi.It  is	unfortunate  that this prosecution  which  is  stillpending	 at  its very early stages has got to  be  proceededwith against all the rest of the accused, after the lapse ofnearly three years from the date of the murder.	 It is to behoped  that  the  proceedings which  must-  follow  will  bespeeded up.Appeals allowed.