PETITIONER:RAJA BAHADUR K. C. DEO BHANJ	Vs.RESPONDENT:RAGHUNATH MISRA AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:18/12/1958BENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERBENCH:IMAM, SYED JAFFERDAS, S.K.KAPUR, J.L.CITATION: 1959 AIR  589		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 952 CITATOR INFO : E	    1960 SC 122	 (13)ACT:Election-Corrupt  Practice-Person in service of	 Government,obtaining  assistance  of-Sarpanch  of	Grama  Panchayat  inOrissa-Whether	such  a	 person- If Sarpanch  is  a  revenueofficer or a village accountant-Representation of the PeopleAct,   1951  (43  of  1951),  S.  123(7)(f)  -Orissa   GramaPanchayats Act, 1948 (Orissa XV of 1948).HEADNOTE:The appellant was declared elected to the Orissa LegislativeAssembly and the first respondent filed an election petitionchallenging the election, inter alia, on the ground that theappellant  had	committed  the	corrupt	 practice  under  S.123(7)(f)  Representation  of  the  People  Act,  1951,	  byobtaining  the	assistance of Sarpanches  of  certain  GramaPanchayats  for	 the  furtherance of the  prospects  of	 hiselection.   The	 petition  was	dismissed  by  the  ElectionTribunal  but on appeal., was allowed by the High Court	 andthe  election  was set aside.  The High Court  held  that  aSarpanch was a person in the service of the Government with-in the meaning of s. I23(7)(f) Of the Act.Held,  that a Sarpanch of Grama Panchayat in Orissa was	 notone  of	 the  persons  contemplated  by	 s.  I23(7)(f)	 andconsequently  the  appellant was not guilty of	any  corruptpractice   in  obtaining  assistance  of  Sarpanches.	 Twoconditions must co-exist before S123(7)(f) could apply to  aSarpanch: (i) that he was in the service of the	 Government,and (ii) that he fell within the class953specified  in  cl. (f).	 There was a distinction  between  "serving	 under the Government " and " in the service of	 theGovernment "; while one may serve under a Government one maynot  necessarily be in the service of the Government;  underthe  latter  expression	 one  not  only	 served	 under	 theGovernment but was in the service of the Government and thisimported  the relationship of master and servant.   None  ofthe  provisions	 of the Orissa Grama Panchayats	 Act,  1948,suggested that as between the State Government and the GramaPanchayat  and its Sarpanch any such  relationship  existed.The mere power of control and supervision of Government overa  Grama  Panchayat exercising administrative  functions  orperforming duties of governmental nature could not make	 theGrama  Panchayat or its Sarpanch a person in the service  ofthe Government.	 The Sarpanch was the executive head of	 theGrama  Panchayat : he was neither appointed nor paid by	 theGovernment;  he	 could	only be	 removed  by  Government  ongrounds of negligence, inefficiency or misbehaviour.  He wasnot  under the control of the Government  while	 discharginghis functions and could not be said to be in service of	 theGovernment.   The second condition also did not exist  as  aSarpanch  was  neither	a  revenue  officer  nor  a  villageaccountant and as such was not one of the class of  officersmentioned in cl. (f) of s. 123(7).JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 480 of 1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedApril  15, 1958, of the Orissa High Court in  Misc.   AppealNo. 194 of 1957, arising out of the judgment and order datedOctober	 26,  1957,  of	 the  Election	Tribunal,  Puri,  inElection Case No. 1/67 of 1957.Veda  Vyasa  and  A. V. Viswanatha Sastri,  R.	Patnaik	 andRatnaparkhi, A. G., for the appellant.H.Mahapatra  and  P.  K. Chatterjee for G.  C.	Mathur,	 forrespondent No. 1.1958.  December 18.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyIMAM,  J.-The  appellant  and the  respondent  No.  1  were,amongst	 others,  candidates  for  election  to	 the  OrissaLegislative   Assembly	 from  the   Daspalla	doublememberconstituency  in which a seat was reserved for	a  scheduledcaste candidate.  We are not concerned with the election  ofthe scheduled caste candidate.120954For  the  general  seat the election was  contested  by	 theappellant,  respondent	No.  1 and  respondent	No.  3.	 Theappellant  obtained  17,700 votes, respondent No.  1  15,568votes  and respondent No. 3 3,589 votes.  The  election	 washeld  on February 27, 1957, and the appellant  was  declaredelected on March 5, 1957.Respondent No. 1 filed an election petition questioning,  onvarious	 grounds,  the	election  -of  the  aPpellant.	 TheElection  Tribunal  dismissed the petition holding  that  nogrounds	 had  been established to invalidate  the  election.Respondent  No.	 1  appealed to the  High  Court  of  Orissaagainst the order of the Election Tribunal.One  of	 the  grounds, amongst the many	 grounds,  taken  byRespondent No. 1 to invalidate the election of the appellantwas that the nomination of respondent No. 3 -was  improperlyaccepted as he was disqualified from contesting the electionbeing  a Sarbarakar of the 10 villages in the,	district  ofNayagarh  mentioned  in the schedule to the  petition.	 TheHigh Court held that the office of Sarbarakar was an  officeof profit under the State Government of Orissa.	  RespondentNo.  3 was accordingly disqualified from being a  member  ofthe Assembly.  It, however, held that the acceptance of	 thenomination  of respondent No. 3 had not materially  affectedthe election of the returned candidate under el. (d) of sub-s.  (1) of s. 100 of the Representation of the	People	Act,1951, hereinafter referred to as the Act.Three grounds were urged before the High Court in support ofthe contention that the appellant had been guilty of corruptpractice.  One was that of bribery; the second was that	 theappellant and his agents had published a pamphlet, Exbt.  8,containing statements which were false and which he knew  orbelieved  to be false in relation to the personal  characterand  conduct  of  respondent No. 1 and in  relation  to	 hiscandidature; and the third was, the obtaining and  procuringby respondent No. 1 of assistance for the furtherance of theprospects  of his election from Sarpanches of certain  GramaPanchayats.   With regard to the first two grounds the	HighCourt held that the same955had  not  been	established.  With reference  to  the  thirdground the High Court was of the opinion that a Sarpanch  ofthe  Grama  Panchayat,	though	not  a	Government   servantappointed  by the Government, was none the less a person  inthe  service of the Government as he performed many  of	 thegovernmental duties and was also removable by the Governmentand such a person came within the provisions of s. 123(7)(f)of  the	 Act.  A Sarpanch exercised under the  Orissa  GramaPanchayats Act, 1948, hereinafter referred to as the  OrissaAct, mostly governmental functions like collection of taxes,maintenance  of	 public accounts, etc.	It thought  that  ifsuch a person was not brought under s. 123(7)(f) there wouldbe  "  a lot of undue influence exercised on the  voters  bythese  persons	who  in	 the  village  exercised  a  lot  ofinfluence  considering	the nature of their powers  and	 theideas  of the village people ". The High  Court	 accordinglyallowed	 the appeal and set aside the  appellant's  electionbut was of the opinion that although its finding resulted inthe   appellant	  being	 disqualified  for   membership	  ofParliament and the Legislature of every State for six  yearsunder s. 140 of the Act, this was a fit case for the removalof the disqualification by the Election Commission under  s.144 of the Act.The  appellant applied to the High Court for  a	 certificatethat  this  was a fit case for appeal to  this	Court.	 Thecertificate  was granted, but one of the learned Judges	 wasin  some  doubt	 whether  this	was  a	case  in  which	 theprovisions  of Art. 133(1)(c) of the  Constitution  applied.On  behalf of respondent No. 1 an objection had	 been  takenthat  Art. 133(1)(c) of the Constitution did not  apply	 andthe High Court could not have certified that this was a	 fitcase  for appeal to this Court.	 It seems to us	 unnecessaryto  decide whether in a case of this kind the provisions  ofArt. 133(1)(c) applied because, in our opinion, even if theydid  not  apply and the High Court could not have  issued  acertificate,  this was just the kind of case where we  wouldhave  granted special leave to appeal under Art. 136 of	 theConstitution  because  the appeal raised a point of  law  ofconsiderable public importance.956In  order to remove all doubts in the matter, we  grant	 theappellant  special leave to appeal against the	decision  ofthe High Court of Orissa and proceed to deal with the appealon that basis.The  Act  was  amended in 1956.	 Before	 the  amendment	 therelevant  portion of s. 123 for the purpose of	this  appealwas contained in sub-s. (8) which %-as as follows :"  (8) The obtaining or procuring or abetting or  attemptingto obtain or procure by a candidate or his agent or, by	 anyother  person  with  the connivance of a  candidate  or	 hisagent,	any assistance for the furtherance of the  prospectsof  the candidate's election from any person  serving  underthe Government of India or the Government of any State otherthan the giving of vote by such person.Explanation-For	 the purposes of this clause-(a) a person serving under the Government of India shall notinclude	 any  person who has been declared. By	the  CentralGovernment  to be a person to  whom the provisions  of	thisclause shall not apply ;(b)  a	person	serving under the Government  of  any  Stateshall  include	a  patwari,  chaukidar,	 dafedar,   zaildar,shanbagh,  karnam,  talati, talari, patil,  village  munsif,village	 headman or any other village officer,	by  whatevername  lie  is called, employed in that	State,	whether	 theoffice be holds is a whole-time office or not, but shall notinclude	 any person (other than any such village officer  asaforesaid) who has been declared by the State Government  tobe a person to whom the provisions of this clause shall	 notapply."After  the  amendment the relevant portion of s. 123  is  insub-s. (7) which reads as follows:-"  (7) The obtaining or procuring or abetting or  attemptingto obtain or procure by a candidate or his agent or, by	 anyother person, any assistance (other than giving of vote) forthe  furtherance  of  the  prospects  of  that	 candidate'selection  from any person in the service of  the  Governmentand belonging to any of the following classes, namely:-(a)  gazetted officers;(b)  stipendiary judges and magistrates;957(c)  members of the armed forces of the Union;(d)  members of the police forces;(e)  excise officers;(f)  revenue  officers including village  accountants,	suchas,  patwaris, lekhpals, talatis, karnams and the  like	 butexcluding other village officers; and(g)  such  other  class	 of persons in the  service  of	 theGovernment as may be prescribed.Explanation-(I)	 In  this section the  expression  "agent  "includes  an election agent, a polling agent and any  personwho is held to have acted as an agent in connection with theelection with the consent of the candidate.(2)For the purposes of clause (7), a person shall be  deemedto  assist  in	the  furtherance  of  the  prospects  of   acandidate's  election  if he acts as an election  agent,  orpolling agent or a counting agent of that candidate."There is a material difference between the phraseology of s.123(8) before it was amended and s. 123(7) as now  containedin  the	 Act.	Under  the  former  provision  there  was  aprohibition   against  obtaining  any  assistance  for	 thefurtherance  of the prospect of a candidate's election	fromany  person  serving under the Government of  India  or	 theGovernment  of	a State other than the giving of a  vote  bysuch  person.  The Explanation, however, gave  authority  tothe  Central Government to declare any person serving  underit to be a person to whom these provisions would not  apply.In  other words, unless there was such a  declaration  theseprovisions   covered   every  person  serving	tinder	 theGovernment of India.  Clause (b) of the Explanation  furtherwidened	 the  meaning  of  any	person	serving	 under	 theGovernment  of	a State by including the  persons  specifiedtherein	 and any other village officer, by whatever name  hemay  be	 called,  employed  in that  State,  but  the  StateGovernment  was authorized to declare that any such  person,other than any such village officer, to be a person to	whomthese  provisions  did	not  apply.   The  language  of	 theprovisions of s. 123(8) covered a wide field and referred toevery person serving under the Government of India or a958State unless such 'Person was declared to be one to whom theprovisions  would not apply.  After the amendment,  however,the  provisions of s. 123(7) are narrower- in scope.   Theseprovisions  apply  to  any  person in  the  service  of	 theGovernment belonging to the classes specified in cls. (a) to(g) and none else.  For the purpose of this appeal it is el.(f)  which will have to be considered, as the other  clausescannot in any case apply.The  principal	question  for  consideration  is  whether  aSarpanch  of a Grama Panchayat constituted under the  OrissaAct  is	 a person in the service of the	 Government  of	 theState  of Orissa and belongs to the class specified  in	 cl.(f) of s. 123(7).Obviously, two things will have to be established before theprovisions  -of	 s. 123(7)(f) can apply to a Sarpanch  of  aGrama  Panchayat constituted under the Orissa Act: (1)	Thatsuch  a person is in the service of the Government  and	 (2)that  he  comes within the class specified in cl.  (f).	  Itwould  not  be	enough	to  establish  only  one  of   theseconditions.   It is necessary, therefore, to decide, in	 thefirst  instance,  whether a Sarpanch of	 a  Grama  Panchayatunder  the  Orissa  Act is a person in the  service  of	 theGovernment  of	the State of Orissa.  For this	purpose,  itwill be necessary to consider whether any of the  provisionsof  the Orissa Act relating to the Grama Panchayat  and	 theduties	to be discharged by the Sarpanch indicate  that	 theSarpanch  is  in  the service  of  the	Government,  becauseindependent  of those provisions there is no  material	uponwhich any such conclusion can be arrived at.It  was	 urged	on behalf of the appellant  that  under	 theOrissa Act a Grama Sasan can be constituted by	notificationby  the State Government.  The Grama Sasan is to be  a	bodycorporate having perpetual succession and a common seal withpower to acquire and hold property, to transfer any propertyheld  by it and to enter into contracts and to do all  otherthings necessary for the purpose of carrying out the  provi-sions  of  the	Orissa Act and to sue and  be  sued  in	 itscorporate  name.   For every Grama Sasan there	shall  be  aGrama Panchayat and the functions of the959Grama Sasan shall be exercised, performed and discharged  bythe  Grama  Panchayat.	 The Executive power  of  the  GramaPanchayat  shall be exercised by the Sarpanch elected  unders.  10, who shall act under the authority of the said  GramaPanchayat.   The Grama Sasan shall elect, in the  prescribedmanner,	 from  amongst its members  an	Executive  Committeewhich  will  be known as the Grama Panchayat and  the  GramaPanchayat shall elect, in the prescribed manner, a Sarpanch.The  appointment  of a Sarpanch, therefore, was not  by	 theGovernment.  The Sarpanch was elected by the Grama Panchayatwhich  in turn was elected by the Grama Sasan and the  GramaSasan  consisted  of  a village or  a  group  of  contiguousvillages and its members were the population residing in theGrama.	 As  the  appointment  of the  Sarpanch	 is  Dot  byGovernment, this would be one of the factors in holding thatthe  Sarpanch  was  not in the service	of  the	 Government.Under  s. 8, the Sarpanch has to act under the authority  ofthe  Grama  Panchayat.	Prima facie, this would	 also  be  afactor	to discountenance the theory that a Sarpanch was  inthe  service of the Government.	 Another factor which  wouldmilitate  against  the	theory that a Sarpanch	was  in	 theservice of the Government was that he received no  remunera-tion from the Government.  The power to remove a Sarpanch bythe State Government is stated in s. 16 but the removal	 canonly be for negligence, inefficiency or misbehaviour.	Thisrestricted  power of removal was not a conclusive factor  onthe  question -whether a Sarpanch was in the service of	 theGovernment.   It was accordingly urged that three  importantfactors to be taken into consideration in deciding whether aperson	was  in	 the  service  of  the	Government,  namely,appointment  of the person, such a person to act  under	 theauthority   of	 the  Government  and	one   who   receivedremuneration  from Government were lacking in the case of  aSarpanch.  The restricted power of removal by the Governmentwas  not a conclusive factor' Instances were not lacking  inthe  Municipal	Acts  of  various  States  where  the  StateGovernment had vested in -it the power of removal of960a  Chairman  of the Municipality, but it could not  be	saidthat the members of the Municipality or their Chairman	werein the service of the Government.On  behalf  of	respondent  No. 1  it  was  urged  that	 theexpression  in	service of Government" had a  wider  conceptthan the expression serving under the Government ". Exerciseof   governmental  functions  would  amount  to	  being	  inGovernment's  service.	A Sarpanch could be equated  with  apatwari,  Lekhpal,  talati,  karnam, etc., and	it  was	 notnecessary   to	consider  whether  he  was  in	service	  ofGovernment  because  the  word " and " before  the  words  "belonging  to any of the following classes " should be	readas " or He referred to the various provisions of the  OrissaAct  in	 support of his submission that a Sarpanch  must  beregarded  as one in service of Government.  Under  s.  10(2)the  District Magistrate was to decide the manner  in  whichthe  local  area of any Grama Sasan shall  be  divided	intoelectoral wards and the number of members to be returned foreach  of such wards.  Under sub-s. (4) of this	section	 thenumber of members of a Grama Panchayat shall be fixed by theDistrict Magistrate.  Under sub-s. (6) if in an election therequisite  number  of members of a Grama  Panchayat  is	 notelected, the State Government shall appoint persons to	fillup  the	 vacancies and the Grama Panchayat  so	constituted,consisting  of elected and appointed members, shall elect  aSarpanch  from	amongst its members.  Under sub-s.  (8)	 theState	Government   was  empowered  by	  notification	 forsufficient  cause to extend the term of office of any  GramaPanchayat  for a period of one year.  Under a. 11 the  StateGovernment may by notification direct that general  electionof  members of a Grama Panchayat be held at any time  beforethe expiration of the term of office of such members includ-ing  its  Sarpanch.   Under s. 14 the  State  Government  isauthorized  to decide any dispute or difficulty arising	 outof the interpretation of any of the provisions of the OrissaAct  or	 any rule made thereunder or  any  difficulty  whicharises	in  the working of the Act.  Under s. 16  the  StateGovernment is empowered961to   remove  a	Sarpanch  on  the  ground   of	 negligence,inefficiency, or misbehaviour.	Under s. 17 a Sarpanch shallgive effect to the decision of the Grama Panchayat; providedthat  if in his opinion any such decision is  subversive  ofpeace  and  order  in the locality or  results	in  manifestinjustice  or  unfairness  to  an  individual  or  body	  ofindividuals  or	 a  particular	community  or  is  generallyagainst	 public interest, he shall refer the matter  to	 theSub-divisional	Magistrate and thereafter act  according  tosuch  directions  as be may receive  from  such	 Magistrate.Under  sub-s.  (2)  of	this  section,	the   Sub-divisionalMagistrate  may, on his own motion or on the  representationby  the	 Sarpanch,  set	 aside	a  decision  of	 the   GramaPanchayat, if he finds that the decision is of the nature asstated above.  Under sub-s. (3) of s. 18 the  Sub-divisionalMagistrate may nominate any member of the Grama Panchayat tocarry  on the duties of the Sarpanch till a new Sarpanch  iselected	 on  the resignation of the former.  Under s.  22  aGrama Panchayat may, if a majority of its members so decide,with  the  previous approval of the Government	and  if	 theProvincial  Government so direct undertake within  its	areathe control and administration of and be responsible in	 thematters mentioned in cls. (a) to (y).  Clause (x) refers  tothe  doing of anything the expenditure on which is  declaredby the Provincial Government or by a District Board with thesanction  of the Provincial Government to be an	 appropriatecharge	on the Grama Sasan's funds.  Even in the  matter  ofappointing staff to a Grama Panchayat, under s. 32 the GramaPanchayat  has to prepare a scheme containing its  proposalsfor  the  employment of whole-time or part-time	 staff,	 fortheir  salaries and allowances and shall submit the same  tothe prescribed authority who shall have the power to approveor  modify or reject the scheme.  Section 35 refers  to	 theliability  of the members of the Grama Panchayat or  of	 anyJoint Committee or any other Committee constituted under theOrissa Act and provides for the institution of suits againstthem  for  loss,  waste or misapplication  of  any  propertybelonging to the121962Grama  Panchayat as the result of direct consequence of	 hisneglect or misconduct while a member of the Grama Panchayat,Joint  Committee or other Committee.  Under sub-s.  (3)	 theProvincial Government has the power to institute such a suiton  its	 own  initiative.  Under s. 36 all  members  of	 theGrama.	Panchayat shall be deemed to be public servants	 andin the definition of " legal remuneration " in s. 161 of theIndian	Penal Code" the word " Government" for the  -purposeof this section shall be deemed to include a Grama Sasan  ora  Grama Panchayat.  Under s. 44(2) a Grama  Panchayat	withthe  previous sanction of the State Government may impose  atax, toll, fee or rate on matters referred to in cls. (a) to(n).  Under sub-s. (4) the District Magistrate is authorizedto  review or revise the tax, toll, fee or rate	 imposed  byGrama  Panchayat.  Under sub-s. (5) the District  Magistratemay  by an order in writing require the Grama  Panchayat  tolevy  or  increase any tax, toll, fee or rate  specified  insub-s.	(2)  subject  to the  conditions  'and	restrictionscontained therein, if in his opinion the income of the GramaPanchayat  is or is likely to be inadequate for	 the  properdischarge  of the duties imposed under s. 21  or  undertakenunder  s.  22.	 Under	s. 97  the  District  Magistrate  isauthorized   to	 exercise  general  powers  of	 inspection,supervision   and  control  over  the	performance-of	 theadministrative	duties of the Grama Panchayat.	 Section  98contains  the general powers of the District Magistrate	 ands.  99 contains the emergency powers of the District  Magis-trate in relation to a Grama Panchayat whereby he may by  anorder in writing prohibit the execution or further executionof a resolution or ail order passed or made by it.  Under s.117-A  the State Government may delegate any of its  powers.except	the  power  to	make  rules,  to  be  exercised	  ordischarged  by any officer subordinate to State	 Government,It  was urged on behalf of respondent No. 1 that  the  aboveprovisions  of	the  Orissa  Act  clearly  made	 the   GramaPanchayat  come	 under the control and	supervision  of	 theState  Government and that the duties and functions  of	 theGrama Panchayat to be performed by its963Sarpanch  were	governmental duties.  It was  further  urgedthat  in considering whether a Sarpanch was a person in	 theservice of Government the essential elements to be borne  inmind were the control and supervision over him by the  StateGovernment  and	 its power to remove him  from	his  office.Neither	 the absence of appointment by the State  Governmentnor  the non-payment of remuneration by it would be  factorsindicating that he was not in the service of the Government.In  our	 opinion, there is a distinction between  I  servingunder	the  Government'  and  I  in  the  service  of	 theGovernment', because while one may serve under a Government,one may not necessarily be in the service of the Government;under  the latter expression one not only serves  under	 theGovernment  but is in the service of the Government  and  itimports the relationship of master and servant.	 There	are,according  to Batt (On the Law of Master and  Servant),	 twoessentials  to	this relationship: (1) The servant  must  beunder the duty of rendering personal services to the  masteror to others in his behalf and (2) the master must have	 theright to control the servant's work either personally or  byanother servant or agent and, according to him, " It is thisright of control or interference, of being entitled to	tellthe  servant when to work (within the hours of	service)  orwhen  not  to  work, and what work to do and how  to  do  it(within	 the terms of such service), which is  the  dominantcharacteristic	in this relation and marks off	the  servantfrom an independent contractor, or from one employed  merelyto give to his employer the fruits or results of his labour.In the latter case, the contractor or performer is not underhis  employer's control in doing the work or  effecting	 theservice;  he has to shape and manage his work so as to	givethe  result  he has contracted to effect.   Consequently,  ajobbing	 gardener  is  no more the  servant  of	 the  personemploying him than the doctor employed by a local  authorityto  act as visiting physician to its fever hospital".	Noneof the provisions of the Orissa Act suggest that as  betweenthe State Government and the Grama964Panchayat and its Sarpanch any such relationship exists.  Itis  true that the State Government, the District  Magistrateand  the Sub-divisional Magistrate have been  given  certainpowers	of control and supervision over the Grama  Panchayatbut those powers of control and supervision are in  relationto  the administrative functions of the Grama Panchayat	 andthe  Sarpanch.	 The Grama Panchayat is an  autonomous	bodyexercising  functions conferred under the statute.   It	 canhardly be said that the Grama Panchayat in so functioning isin  the	 service  of  the  Government.	 Its  administrativefunctions  are akin to the functions generally performed  byMunicipalities	 and  District	Boards.	  It  would   be   aconception hitherto unknown to suppose that any Municipalityor  District  Board  was in the service	 of  the  Governmentmerely because it exercised administrative functions and  tosome  extent was under the control of the  Government.	 Co-operative  societies  generally	 are  very  much  under	 thecontrol	 and supervision by the State Government or  one  ofits  officers  authorized  in  that  behalf.   It  would  bedifficult  to accept the suggestion that because of  that  aCooperative  society and its members must be regarded as  inthe  service  of  the  Government.   Even  with	 respect  tocompanies, progressively, legislation has been giving  powerto  the Government to control and supervise them.  Under  s.259   of  the  Indian  Companies  Act,	1956,	in   certaincircumstances,	any increase in the number of its  directorsmust be approved by the Central Government and shall  becomevoid  if it is disapproved.  Under s. 269, in the case of  apublic company or a private company which is a subsidiary ofa  public company, the appointment of a managing  or  whole-time  director for the first time after the commencement  ofthis  Act in the case of an existing company, and after	 theexpiry of three months from the date of its incorporation inthe  case  of any other company, shall not have	 any  effectunless approved by the Central Government; and shall  becomevoid if, and in so far as, it is disapproved by the  CentralGovernment.   Under s. 408 the Government has the  power  toprevent mismanagement in the affairs of the965Company	 and under the proviso in lieu of passing any  orderunder sub-s. (1) the Central Government may, if the  companyhas  not availed itself of the option given to it  under  s.265, direct the company to amend its Articles in the  mannerprovided  in  that section and make  fresh  appointments  ofdirectors in pursuance of the Articles as so amended, withinsuch time as may be specified in that behalf by the  CentralGovernment.  Section 409 empowers the Central Government  toprevent	 change in the number of directors likely to  affectthe company prejudicially.  It could not be said, because ofthese  provisions, that a company was in the service of	 theGovernment.  It seems to us, therefore, that the mere  powerof  control and supervision of a Grama Panchayat  exercisingadministrative functions would not make the Grama  Panchayator  any,  of  its members a person in  the  service  of	 theGovernment.   Even  if	it  could be  said  that  the  GramaPanchayat  in the exercise of its  administrative  functionsexercised  duties  in the nature of Governmental  duties  itcould  not  thereby  be said that its Sarpanch	was  in	 theservice	 of  the  Government.  So far  as  the	Sarpanch  isconcerned,  he	is merely the executive head  of  the  GramaPanchayat  which carries out its functions through him.	  Heis  not appointed by the Government.  He is not paid by	 theGovernment.   He does not exercise his functions as  one  inthe service of the Government and he can only be removed  onthe ground of negligence, inefficiency or misbehaviour.	  Wehave  been unable to find a single provision of	 the  OrissaAct  from which we could say that a Sarpanch is a person  inthe  service of the Government.	 Reference had been made  onbehalf	of the respondent No. 1 to s. 31 of the	 Orissa	 Actwhich  authorizes  the	Grama  Panchayat  to  enter  into  acontract  with	the State Government to collect all  or	 anyclass  of  taxes  or dues payable to  the  Government  at  aprescribed  percentage as collection charges.  As the  GramaSasan  is  a body corporate and the Grama Panchayat  is	 itsexecutive authority, the statute enabled the Grama Panchayatby  provisions	of s. 31 to enter into a contract  with	 theState Government to collect its taxes and its dues.  It966cast no obligatory duty upon the Grama Panchayat to  collectsuch  taxes or dues of the Government.	No provision of	 theOrissa	Act  has been placed before us by  which  the  StateGovernment  could  order a Grama Panchayat  to	collect	 itstaxes  or its dues.  Furthermore, under el. (b) to s. 31,  aGrama	Panchayat  is  authorized  to  enter  into   similarcontracts with proprietors or land holders to collect  theirrents.	The provisions of s. 31 militate against the  theorythat   the  Grama  Panchayat  is  in  the  service  of	 theGovernment.  There would be no occasion for such a provisionif the Grama Panchayat was in the service of the  Governmentin  which case it would have to carry out the orders of	 theGovernment to collect its taxes or its dues.Even  if on a reasonable construction of the  provisions  ofthe Orissa Act it could be held that a Sarpanch of the GramaPanchayat was a person in the service of the Government,  itwould  have to be further held that he was of the  class  ofofficers  mentioned  in s. 123(7)(f).  Clause  (f),  in	 thefirst  instance,  speaks of a person in the service  of	 theGovernment who is a revenue officer and then further extendsthe  class  to	village accountants.  The words	 "  such  aspatwaris,  lekhpals,  talatis, karnams and the	like  "	 aremerely descriptive of the words " Revenue officers includingvillage accountants".  Under cl. (f) it is essential that  aperson	in the service of the Government must be  a  revenueofficer	 or  a	village accountant, by	whatever  name	suchofficer	 or  village  accountant  may  be  described.	 Theexclusion of every other village officer from the provisionsof  cl. (f) compels the conclusion that before	this  clausecan  apply  to a Sarpanch of the Grama Panchayat  under	 theOrissa	Act  it must be proved that he is either  a  revenueofficer	 or a village accountant.  The mere fact that  unders.  31	of the Orissa Act a Grama Panchayat  is	 enabled  toenter  into a contract with the State Government to  collectits  taxes  or	its dues cannot convert a  Sarpanch  into  arevenue	 officer.  No doubt a Grama Panchayat would have  tosupervise and maintain village and field boundary marks	 andvillage records if required to do967so by the State Government under s. 21(r) of the Orissa Act.In  the	 present  case	there is no  proof  that  the  GramaPanchayats in question were required to do any such thing bythe Government.	 It is significant that under s.  54(1)(xiv)of the Orissa Act it is a choukidar appointed under that Actby the District Magistrate on whom a statutory duty is	castto  keep watch over boundary marks and report to  the  GramaPanchayat  any loss or damage caused to the  boundary  marksdefining  villages.  The Grama Panchayat, however,  has	 notbeen assigned positively any functions under the Orissa	 Actwhich  are discharged by a revenue officer.  The  provisionsof  s.	21(r) would not by itself convert a  Sarpanch  of  aGrama Panchayat into a revenue officer.	 Similarly, there isno  provision of the Orissa Act which shows that a  Sarpanchis a village accountant.  It had been suggested on behalf ofrespondent  No.	 1 that if it could be	established  that  aSarpanch was a revenue officer or a village accountant, thenthe very fact that he was such a person made him a person inthe  service of the Government.	 It is doubtful whether	 anysuch  necessary conclusion arises, but there is no  need  tomake  further  reference  to  this  submission	as,  in	 ouropinion, a Sarpanch of the Grama Panchayat under the  OrissaAct is neither a revenue officer nor a village accountant.It  follows,  therefore, that in the present  case  the	 twoessential  elements that a Sarpanch must be a person in	 theservice	 of the Government and that he belongs to the  classmentioned  in cl. (f) of sub-s. (7) of s. 123 have not	beenestablished.   Even if one of them had been established	 andnot the other the provisions of s. 123(7) would not apply tosuch  a	 person.  In our opinion, the High  Court  erred  insupposing  that	 because a. Sarpanch of	 a  Grama  Panchayatunder  the Orissa Act exercised governmental duties he	mustbe  regarded as a person in the service of  the	 Government.The  High  Court  did  not give any  clear  finding  that  aSarpanch, even if a person in the service of the Government,was  either a revenue officer or a village  accountant.	  Inour  opinion,  the provisions of s. 123(7) do not  apply  tohim.  Therefore, it cannot. be said that968any  corrupt practice under s. 123 had been  established  inthe case and the election of the appellant could not be	 setaside on the only ground on which his election had been	 setaside by the High Court.  The appeal is accordingly  allowedwith costs and the election petition of 'respondent No. 1 isdismissed.Appeal allowed.