PETITIONER:THE TRUSTEES OF THE CHARITY FUND,ESPLANADE ROAD, FORT, BOMBA	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,BOMBAYDATE OF JUDGMENT:05/05/1959BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.HIDAYATULLAH, M.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1060		  1959 SCR  Supl. (2) 923 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1973 SC 623	 (15)ACT:Income-tax-Public   charitable	 trust-Excmption-Test-IndianIncome-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922), S. 4(3)(i).HEADNOTE:The appellants were the trustees of a charity fund known  asThe  Charity Fund founded by Sir Sassoon David,	 Baronet  ofBombay	". Clause 13 Of the deed of trust,  after  declaringthat the trustees should apply the net income for all or anyof  the	 following  purposes, namely,  (a)  the	 relief	 andbenefit	 of the poor and indigent members of Jewish  or	 anyother community of Bombay or other parts of India or of	 theworld either by making payments to them in cash or providingthem with food and924clothes and/or lodging or residential quarters or in  givingeducation  including scholarships to or setting them  up  inlife  or  in such other manner as to the said  Trustees	 mayseem proper or(b)  the  institution maintenance and support  of  hospitalsand schools, colleges or other educational institutions or(c)  the  relief of any distress caused by the	elements  ofnature	such  as famine, pestilence, fire,  tempest,  flood,earthquake or any other such calamity or(d)  the care and protection of animals useful to mankind or(e)  the advancement of religion or(f)  other purposes beneficial to the community not fallingunder  any  of	the foregoing purposes	I added	 by  way  ofprovisos  (i)  that  in	 applying the  net  income  for	 thepurposes  mentioned  in sub-cl. (a) the trustees  must	givepreference to the poor and indigent relations or members  ofthe  family  of	 Sir Sassoon David,  including	distant	 andcollateral  relatives,	(2) that for the  said	purpose	 thetrustees must apply not less than half of the income for thebenefit	 of  the members of the Jewish community  of  Bombayonly, including the said relatives of Sir Sassoon David	 andJewish objects.	 The question for determination was  whetherthe  income  from the trust fund was  exempt  from  taxationunder  s.  4(3)(i) Of the Indian Income-tax Act.   The	HighCourt  came to the conclusion that the trust fund could	 nutbe  said  to  be held, wholly or partly,  for  religious  orcharitable  purposes involving an element of public  utilityand answered the question in the negative.Held, that there could be no doubt that each one of the pri-mary purposes mentioned in the deed of trust, including	 theone  mentioned in sub-cl. (a), properly construed,  involvedan  element  of public utility and thus they  constituted  avalid charitable trust.Although  it  was open to the trustees to spend	 the  entireincome for the purpose mentioned in sub-cl. (a), that  couldnot  detract  from  the	 validity of  the  trust  since	 therelations  or family members of the founder did not come  indirectly  under	 any of the other purposes and could  do  soonly  under sub-cl. (a) as preferential beneficiaries to  beselected  from	out of the class  of  primary  beneficiariesprescribed by it, in terms of the provisos.The test of the validity of such a public charitable deed oftrust  should  be  whether or not at the  primary  stage  ofeligibility it could be said to possess that character.In re Koettgan's Will Trusts, [1954] Ch. 252, applied.Trustees of Gordhandas Govindram Family Charitable Trust  v.Commissioner  of  Income-tax  (Central),  Bombay,   [1952]21I.T.R.231, distinguished and held inapplicable.The circumstance that in selecting the actual beneficiaries925from  the primary class of beneficiaries under sub-cl.	(a),the  trustees had to give preference under the provisos,  tothe relations or members of the family of Sir Sassoon David,could  not  therefore  affect the  public  charitable  trustconstituted under sub-cl. (a) and the income from the  trustproperties was entitled to exemption under S. 4(3)(i) Of theIndian Income-tax Act.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.396 of 1957.Appeal from the Judgment and Order dated the 21st  February,1956,  of the Bombay High Court in Income-tax Reference	 No.32 of 1954.,R.   J.	 Kolah, J. B. Dadachanji and S. N. Andley,  for	 theappellants.K.   N. Rajagopal Sastri and D. Gupta, for the respondent.1959.  May 5. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byDAS,  C.  J.-This  is an appeal	 brought  on  a	 certificategranted	 on September 19, 1956, by the High Court of  Bombayunder s. 66(A)(2) of the Indian Income Tax Act	(hereinafterreferred  to  as " the said Act ") against its	order  datedFebruary  21, 1956, in Income-tax Reference No. 32  of	1954answering  in the negative two questions of law referred  toit  under  s. 66(1) of the said Act at the instance  of	 theappellants.The appellants are the trustees of a charity fund known as "The  Charity Fund Founded by Sir Sassoon David,	 Baronet  ofBombay	". The said Sir Sassoon David, Bart. and four  otherpersons, who were holding certain securities of the value ofRs.  24,25,000	for  the purpose of  charity  and  had	beenapplying  the  same  for and  towards  charitable  purposes,executed,  on June 8, 1922, a Deed of Declaration  of  Trustdeclaring that the said trust fund would be held by them  ontrusts	more specifically therein mentioned.  Clause  13  ofthe said deed, on the true construction of which depends theanswer to the referred questions, runs as follows:-" 13.  The Trust Fund shall be held by the Trustees upon theTrusts to apply the net income thereof926after  providing for all necessary expenses in	relation  tothe  management	 of the Trust Funds for all or	any  of	 thefollowing purposes, that is to say,(a)  the relief and benefit of the poor and indigent membersof Jewish or any other community of Bombay or other parts ofIndia  or of the world either by making payments to them  incash or providing them with food and clothes and/or  lodgingor  residential	 quarters or in giving	education  includingscholarships to or setting them up in life or in such  othermanner as to the said Trustees may seem proper or.........(b)  the  institution maintenance and support  of  hospitalsand  schools,  colleges or  other  educational	institutionsor...............(c)  the  relief of any distress caused by the	elements  ofnature	such  as famine, pestilence, fire,  tempest,  flood,earthquake	or     any     other	  such	    calamityor.......................(d)  the  care and protection of animals useful	 to  mankindor...........(e)  the advancement of religion or...................(f)  other purposes beneficial to the community not  fallingunder any of the foregoing purposes...................Provided always that in applying the income as aforesaid theTrustees  shall	 give preference to the	 poor  and  indigentrelations  or members of the family of the said Sir  SassoonDavid,	Bart.,	including  therein  distant  and  collateralrelations;  provided further that in the application of	 theincome	of the said Charitable Trust Fund the said  Trusteesfor the time being shall observe the following	proportions,viz.:  that not less than half the income of the said  fundsshall at all times be applied for the benefit of the membersof  the	 Jewish	 Community of  Bombay  only  (including	 therelations  of  Sir Sassoon David, Bart.	 as  aforesaid)	 andJewish	objects and particularly in giving donations to	 themembers of the Jewish Community of Bombay on the anniversaryof  the death of the said Sir Sassoon David, Bart.  and	 hiswife Lady Hannah David which falls on the Twenty-second	 dayof  June  and the remaining income for the  benefit  of	 allpersons and objects including Jewish persons and objects andin927such  proportions  as the said Trustees	 may  think  proper.Provided  further that if the income of the Trust Funds	 forany year shall not be wholly applied during that year on theTrusts aforesaid such surplus income may be carried  forwardto the subsequent year or years and be applied as the incomearising	 during	 that  year or years.	Provided  also	thatduring	the  life-time of Sir Sassoon David, Bart.,  in	 theapplication  of	 the  said income the  Trustees	 shall	haveregard	to the wishes of the said Sir Sassoon David,  Bart.,who  shall also be entitled to direct if he so desires	thatthe income of the time being of the Trust-Funds or any	partthereof may be applied to such charitable object or  objectsas  the said Sir Sassoon David, Bart., shall direct  and  insuch case the Trustees shall so apply the income ".This  Deed  of Declaration of Trust was, on  June  4,  1953,registered under the Bombay Public Trusts Act, 1950.The  Trust fund had been invested by the trustees  in  interalia  3	 1/2%  Government Securities.  In the  year  1930  acertificate  was issued by the Income-tax Officer,  A  Ward,Bombay, whereby the Reserve Bank of India was authorised notto  deduct  at source the tax on the interest  on  the	saidsecurities so held by the trustees.  It was mentioned in thesaid certificate that it was to enure till its cancellation.In  1946 the 3 1/2% Government Securities were	redeemed  bythe  Government	 of India and were converted  into  3%	Con-version Loan, 1946.  Accordingly in February, 1948, the saidcertificate  of exemption was cancelled, as  the  securitiescovered	 thereby had been redeemed by the  Government.	 Thetrustees   thereupon  asked  for  a  fresh  certificate	  ofexemption from the Income-tax Officer, Bombay Refund  Circlein  respect of the 3% Conversion Loan, 1946.  But  the	saidIncome-tax Officer refused to issue such certificate on	 theground	that the income from the trust fund in question	 wasnot  exempt from taxation under s. 4(3)(i) of the  said	 Actwhich, at the material time, was as follows:-"4(1).........................................................928(2)  .................................(3)  Any  income,  profits  or	gains  falling	with-in	 thefollowing  classes shall not be included in total income  ofthe person receiving them:-(i)  Any  income, derived from property held under trust  orother  legal obligation wholly for religious  or  charitablepurposes,  and in the case of property so held in part	onlyfor such purposes, the income applied, or finally set  apartfor application, thereto:Upon  the fact of the withholding of the certificate by	 theIncome-tax  Officer, Refund Circle, being intimated  to	 theIncome-tax  Officer,  A-V Ward, Bombay, the  latter  Officerstarted	 proceedings against the appellants under s.  34  ofthe  said Act in respect of the assessment years 1944-45  to1947-48.   He  also  started  regular  proceedings  for	 theassessment year 1948-49 and the succeeding years up to 1952-53.In  the	 assessment  proceedings for those  nine  years	 theIncome-tax  Officer took the view that the income  from	 thetrust fund was not exempt from taxation under s. 4(3)(i) andaccordingly  he assessed the appellants for the	 first	fourassessment years (1944-45 to 1947-48) on the ground that theincome	for  those years had escaped  assessment.   He	alsoassessed the appellants to tax for the subsequent five years(194849	 to  1952-53).	On appeal  the	Appellate  AssistantCommissioner  confirmed	 the said assessments.	 On  furtherappeal by the appellants, the Income-tax Appellate  Tribunalset aside the assessments for the first four years  (1944-45to 1947-48) holding that s. 34 had been wrongly invoked, forit  was only a case of difference of opinion of one  Income-tax  Officer from his predecessor on the same set of  facts.The department did not take any further steps in the  matterand  accepted  that  view of the  Tribunal  as	regards	 theassessments  of	 those years and we are not in	this  appealconcerned  with	 them.	As regards the assessments  for	 thefive  years  (1948-49 to 1952-53) the  Tribunal	 upheld	 thedecision of the Appellate Assistant929Commissioner  who had confirmed the assessments made by	 theIncome-tax Officer.On application being made by the appellants, under s.  66(1)of  the said Act, the Tribunal drew up a statement  of	caseand  referred two questions of law arising out of its  orderto  the High Court for its opinion.  The said questions	 areas follows :-(1)  Whether the Trust property is held wholly for religiousor charitable purposes within the meaning of section 4(3)(i)of the Indian Income-tax Act ?(2)  If	 the  answer  to question (1) is  in  the  negative,whether	 the  trust  property  is  held	 in  part  only	 forreligious or charitable purposes ?The said reference came up for hearing before the said	HighCourt  and both the referred questions were answered in	 thenegative.   The High Court, however, gave the  appellants  acertificate  of	 fitness for appeal to this  Court  and	 thepresent	 appeal	 has  been filed on  the  strength  of	suchcertificate.A perusal of cl. 13 of the deed shows that the trust fund isdeclared to be held by the trustees upon trusts to apply thenet  income  thereof  for all or any  of  the  six  purposesenumerated therein.  It was conceded before the High  Court-and  it	 has not been disputed before us-that if  there	 wasnothing else in this clause, then each of these six purposeswould have to be upheld as a charitable purpose involving anelement	 of  public  utility  and  consequently	 within	 theprotection of s. 4(3)(i).  The fact that the trustees  couldexpend	the  net income on any of the six  purposes  to	 theexclusion  of the other five purposes would not, it is	alsoconceded,  have made the slightest difference in the  matterof  such  exemption from income-tax.  For instance,  if	 thetrustees  spent	 the net income solely and  wholly  for	 thepurposes-  mentioned under sub-cl. (a) to the  exclusion  ofthose  mentioned  in sub-cls. (b) to  (f)such  income  wouldstill  be exempt from taxation under s. 4(3)(i).   The	HighCourt, however, took the view that cl. 13 should be read  asa whole along with the provisos -and that so read the  trustis primarily for the benefit of the relations or members  ofthe family 117930of  Sir	 Sassoon  David, Bart.	It is pointed  out  that  inapplying  the net income for the purposes mentioned in	sub-cl. (a), the trustees are bound, under the first proviso, togive  preference  to  the poor	and  indigent  relations  ormembers	 of the family of the said Sir Sassoon David,  Bart.including  therein  distant and collateral  relations.	 Thesecond proviso, it is urged, makes it further clear that  inthe  application  of the income for the	 said  purpose,	 thetrustees are enjoined to apply not less than half the incomefor  the benefit of the members of the Jewish  community  ofBombay only " including the relations of Sir Sassoon  David,Bart.,	as aforesaid " and the Jewish objects.	Emphasis  islaid on the words not less than half " as indicating that itis permissible for the trustees to spend more than half	 andindeed	the whole of the net income for the benefit  of	 thesaid relations or members of the family of the said  SassoonDavid,	Bart.	It is also pointed out	that,  although	 theremaining income, if any, has to be spent for the benefit ofall  persons  and  objects  including  Jewish  persons	 andobjects,  the trustees could, if they so wished,  spend	 thesame also for the relations or members of the family of	 SirSassoon David, Bart. as Jewish persons.	 The argument, whichfound  favour  with  the High Court, is	 that  the  provisosimpose	a mandatory obligation on the trustees (i)  to	givepreference to the poor and indigent relations or members  ofthe family of Sir Sassoon David, Bart. and (ii) to spend notless  than half the income, which may extend to	 the  entireincome,	 for the benefit of the relations or members of	 thefamily	of Sir Sassoon David, Bart.  The High  Court  pointsout that in view of the language of el. 13 of the deed	readas a whole, it is open to the trustees, without being guiltyof  any breach of trust, to spend the entire net  income  ofthe trust fund for the purpose of giving relief to the	poorand indigent relations or members of the family of the	saidSir Sassoon David, Bart., including therein the distant	 andcollateral  relations and such being the position, the	HighCourt came to the conclusion that it could not be said	thatthe property was held wholly or partly for religious or931charitable purposes involving an element of public  utility.The  High  Court accordingly held that the income  from	 thetrust fund was not exempt from taxation under s. 4(3)(i) andanswered  both the questions in the negative.	The  problembefore	us  is	whether	 the High  Court  was  right  in  soanswering the questions.In coming to the decision that it did, the High Court reliedon  its	 own  earlier decision in the case  of	Trustees  ofGordhandas Govindram Family Charitable Trust v. Commissionerof  Income-tax	(Central), Bombay (1).	The  facts  in	thatcase,  however, were somewhat different from the  facts	 nowbefore us.  In that case the trust was significantly  enoughdescribed as " Gordhandas Govindram Family Charitable  Trust". Clause 2 of that trust deed provided for the	 applicationof  tile  net income in giving help or relief to  such	poorVaishyas  and other Hindoos as the trustees  might  considerdeserving of help in the manner and to the extent  specifiedin  the	 said trust deed and subject to the  conditions	 anddirections stated in the next following clauses.  Sub-clause(a) of cl. 3 provided that Vaishya Hindoos who were  membersof Seksaria family should be preferred to poor Vaishyas	 notbelonging  to  the  said  family.   Maintenance	 had  to  beprovided under sub-cl. (b) for the poor male descendants  ofthe  settlor  and  under sub-cl. (c)  for  the	poor  femaledescendants of the settlor.  Marriage expenses were providedunder  sub-el. (d) for the poor male descendants  and  undersub-cl. (e) for the poor female descendants of the  settlersThere  were other subclauses providing for payment of  moneyto the poor male or female descendants of the other  membersof  the Seksaria family.  In the present judgment now  underappeal, the High Court recognises that the particular  trustthey  were dealing with in the earlier case " was  a  fairlyblatant illustration of a settlor trying to benefit his	 ownfamily	and  his  own relations " and  states  that  in	 theearlier	 case it had pointed out " that the benefit  to	 thepublic was too remote and too illusory and accordingly	heldthat was(1)  [1952] 21 I.T.R. 231.932not  a	trust  which had for its  object  a  general  publicutility	 ". Such, however, cannot be said of the  provisionsof  the present Deed of Declaration of Trust.  Under el.  13the  trustees are at liberty to hold the trust fund  and  toapply  the  net	 income thereof for all or any	of  the	 sixpurposes mentioned therein.  The relations or members of thefamily	of  the	 said Sir Sassoon  David,  Bart.,  includingtherein	 distant and collateral relations do not  figure  asdirect	recipients of any benefit under sub-cls. (b) to	 (f)and,  therefore, in so far as those purposes  are  concernedthe  trust certainly involves an element of public  utility.We  are	 not unminaful of the fact that it is  open  to	 thetrustees  to spend the net income entirely for	the  purposereferred  to  in sub-cl. (a) to the exclusion of  the  otherclauses.  But the very fact that the relations or members ofthe family do not come in directly under any of those lattersub-clauses cannot be ignored, for they certainly have	somebearing	 on the question as to who or what were the  primaryobjects	 of  the trust as a whole.  In the next	 place,	 thepurpose	 of  sub-cl. (a) is the "relief and benefit  of	 thepoor  and indigent members of Jewish or any other  communityof  Bombay or other parts of India or of the world ". It  isconceded  by  learned counsel that this	 sub-clause  clearlyexpresses  a  general  charitable  intention  involving	  anelement of public utility.  It follows, therefore, that sub-cl.(a) constitutes a valid public charitable trust having asits beneficiaries the several classes of persons referred totherein.   This is the first position.	We then pass  on  tothe  provisos.	The first proviso opens with the words "  inapplying  the income as aforesaid ". This takes us  back  tosub-cl.	 (a).  The meaning of the proviso obviously is	thatin  applying the income for the purpose of sub-el. (a),	 thetrustees  shall	 give preference to the	 poor  and  indigentrelations  or  members of the family of Sir  Sassoon  David,Bart.  The proviso does not operate independently but  comesinto play only " in applying the income as aforesaid"..	 Theprovision  for	giving	preference  involves  the  idea	  ofselection of some persons out of a bigger class envisaged insubel. (a).  The poor and indigent relations or members of933the  family can claim to participate in the  benefits  underthe  trust  only  if they come within  one  of	the  severalclasses	 enumerated  in	 sub-el. (a).  To  take	 an  extremeexample:  If  a poor and indigent relation  of	Sir  SassoonDavid, Bart. abjures the faith held by the Jewish  communityand  does not adopt any other faith and thus ceases to be  amember of the Jewish community but does not become a  memberof any other community, he will certainly not be entitled tothe  benefits  of  sub-el. (a) although he  is	a  poor	 andindigent  relation  or member of the family of	Sir  SassoonDavid,	Bart. within the meaning of the first  proviso.	  Inother  words,  sub-cl. (a) prescribes the primary  class  ofbeneficiaries  out of which the actual beneficiaries are  tobe  selected  by the application of the	 provisions  of	 theprovisos,  that	 is  to say, by	 giving	 preference  to	 therelations  or members of the family of the said Sir  SassoonDavid,	Bart.  The case of In re Koettgan's Will Trusts	 (1)appears	 to us, on the facts, to be more in point  than	 thecase  of Gordhandas Govindram Family Charity Trust case	 (2)relied on by the High Court.  In the last mentioned  Englishcase  the  testatrix bequeathed her  residuary	estate	upontrust for the promotion and furtherance of commercial educa-tion.  The persons eligible as beneficiaries under the	fundwere  stated  to be ,persons of either sex who	are  Britishborn  subjects and who are desirous of educating  themselvesor  obtaining  tuition for a higher  commercial	 career	 butwhose  means  are insufficient or will not  allow  of  theirobtaining such education or tuition at their own expense..."The  testatrix	further	 directed  that	 in  selecting	 thebeneficiaries  " it is my wish that the ...  trustees  shallgive preference to any employees of John Batt & Co. (London)Ltd.  or  any  members of the families	of  such  employees;failing	 a  sufficient number of  beneficiaries	 under	suchdescription  then the persons eligible shall be any  personsof  British birth as the trustees may select  provided	thatthe  total  income to be available for benefiting  the	pre-ferred	beneficiaries shall not in anyone year be more	than75% of the total available income for that(1) [1954] Ch. 252, 257.(2) [1952] 21 I.T.R. 231.934year".	It was held, on a construction of the will, that thegift  to  the primary class from which	the  trustees  couldselect the beneficiaries contained the necessary element  ofbenefit	 to the public and that it was when that  class	 wasascertained  that  the	validity  of the  trust	 had  to  bedetermined,  so that the subsequent direction to prefer,  asto the 75% of the income, a limited class did not affect thevalidity  of  the trust which was accordingly  a  valid	 andeffective charitable trust.  Referring to the first part  ofthe will Upjohn, J., at p. 257 said:-" If the will concluded there, the trust would clearly be  avalid charitable trust, having regard to the admission	thata  gift for commercial education is for the  advancement  ofeducation."Then  after  stating  that  the next  task  was	 to  make  aselection  from that primary class of eligible persons,	 thelearned Judge continued:-"  It is only when one comes to make a selection  from	thatprimary class that the employees of John Batt & Co. and	 themembers	 of their families come into consideration, and	 thequestion is, does that direction as to selection  invalidatethe primary trust ? In my judgment it does not do so."Further down he said:-"In my judgment it is at the stage when the primary class ofeligible  persons  is ascertained that the question  of	 thepublic	nature of the trust arises and falls to be  decided,and it seems to me that the will satisfies that	 requirementand that the trust is of a sufficiently public nature."The learned Judge then concluded:-"  If, when selecting from that primary class  the  trusteesare  directed to give a preference to the employees  of	 thecompany	 and members of their families, that  cannot  affectthe validity of the primary trust, it being quite  uncertainwhether	 such persons will exhaust in any year 75%.  On	 thetrue  construction  of this will, that is not  (as  to	75%)primarily  a  trust for persons connected with John  Batt  &Co., and the class of persons to benefit is not " confined "to them, and in my judgment the trust contained in clauses 7935and  8	of the will of the testatrix is a  valid  charitabletrust."It is true that this is a judgment of a Single Judge but  itdoes not appear to have been departed from or over ruled  inany  subsequent case and appears to us to be based on  soundprinciple.   Applying this test, there can be  no  question-indeed it has been conceded that the earlier part of el. 13,omitting the provisos, constitutes a valid public charitabletrust.	The circumstance that in selecting the beneficiariesunder  subel.  (a)  preference has to be  given,  under	 theprovisos,  to the relations or members of the family of	 SirSasoon	David, Bart., cannot affect that  public  charitabletrust.	In our judgment, the facts of this case come  nearerto  the facts of the English case referred to above than  tothe  facts of the earlier decision of the Bombay High  Courtin  Gordhandas Govindram Family Charity Trust case (1).	  Aswe  have  already  stated the relations of  members  of	 thefamily	are clearly not the primary object  contemplated  bysub-cls.  (b)  to  (f).	  The first  part  of  sub-cl.	(a),omitting  the provisos, is not said to be too wide or  vagueand  unenforceable.  The provision for giving preference  tothe poor and indigent relations or the members of the familyof  Sir	 Sassoon  David, Bart.,	 cannot	 affect	 the  publiccharitable  trust  constituted under sub-cl.  (a).   In	 ouropinion	 the income from the trust properties  comes  withinthe  scope  of	s. 4(3)(i) and is,  therefore,	entitled  toexemption.  Therefore the negative answer given by the	HighCourt  to  question  No.  I cannot  be	supported  and	thatquestion  should  be answered in the affirmative.   In	thisview of the matter, question No. 2 does not arise and  needsno  answer.  The result is that this appeal must be  allowedand the question No. I must be answered in the	affirmative.The  appellants will have the costs of the reference in	 theHigh Court and of this appeal in this Court.Appeal allowed.(1) [1952] 21 I.T.R. 231.936