PETITIONER:THE STATE OF BIHAR	Vs.RESPONDENT:HIRALAL KEJRIWAL AND ANOTHERDATE OF JUDGMENT:14/09/1959BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.BENCH:SUBBARAO, K.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1960 AIR   47		  1960 SCR  (1) 726 CITATOR INFO : R	    1961 SC 304	 (10) R	    1974 SC 366	 (25) R	    1978 SC 933	 (18) D	    1980 SC 126	 (4)ACT:Repeal	of  Statute-Saving  clause-Interpretation  of-CottonTextiles   (Control  of	 Movement)  Order,   1948,   whethercontinues  in  force-Essential Supplies	 (Temporary  Powers)Act,  1946  (XXIV  of 1946),  ss.  1(3)	 and  3(1)-EssentialCommodities  Ordinance, 1955, (Ordinance 1 of 1955), s.	 16-Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (X of 1955), s. 16.Appeal	by  special  leave-Interference	 in-Constitution  ofIndia, Art. 136.HEADNOTE:In  exercise  of  the powers under s.  3  of  the  EssentialSupplies   (Temporary	Powers)	 Act,  1946,   the   CentralGovernment  made  the Cotton Textile (Control  of  Movement)Order,	1948.	The 1946 Act was to expire  on	January	 26,1955,  but before that, on January 21, 1955,  the  EssentialCommodities Ordinance was promulgated which conferred on theCentral Government a power similar to that conferred by s. 3of the 1946 Act.  Section 16 of the Ordinance provided	thatall Orders made under the 1946 Act in so far as such  Orderscould  be made under the Ordinance shall continue  in  forceand that accordingly any appointment made, license or permitgranted	 or  direction	issued under any  such	Order  shallcontinue  in force.  The Essential Commodities Act, ,955  bys. 16(i)(a) repealed the Ordinance and by s. 16(i)(b)727repealed  any other law in force in any State in so  far  assuch law controlled the production, supply and	distributionof, and trade, and commerce in any essential commodity.	 Thesavings clause s. 16(2) of the 1955 Act was a repetition  ofs.  16 of the Ordinance.  The respondent contended that	 theamplitude  of the first part of s. 16 of the  Ordinance	 wascut  down by the second part and consequently s. 16 did	 notsave  the Order but only the acts done under the Order,	 andthat  even if the Order was saved by s. 16 of the  Ordinanceit  was repealed by s. 16(i)(b) of the 1955 Act and was	 notcontinued under that Act.Held, that the Cotton Textiles (Control of Movement)  Order,1948  was saved by s. 16 of the Ordinance and was  continuedby s. 16(2) of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, and	 wasin force on August 30, 1955, when the offence was committed.The first part of s. 16 of the Ordinance saved the order andthe acts done under the Order subsequent to the coming	intoforce  of the Ordinance and the second part of s.  16  savedpast acts done under the Order before the coming into  forceof  the	 Ordinance.   The  words " any other  law  "  in  s.16(i)(b)  of  the  1955 Act meant any  law  other  than	 theOrdinance  and an order made or deemed to be made under	 theOrdinance  was not repealed by s. 16(i)(b).  Such  an  orderwas saved by s. 16(i)(a) of the Act.Held, further, that this was not a fit case for interferenceunder  Art.  136 of the Constitution with the order  of	 theHigh  Court  discharging the respondent.   The	offence	 wascommitted  more than four years ago; the application by	 theappellant to the High Court for a certificate of fitness  toappeal	to  the	 Supreme  Court	 was  belated  ;  there	 wasplausible  justification for the belief of the accused	thatthe Order did not survive the expiry of the 1946 Act in viewof  the	 varying views expressed by the	 Courts;  the  Statefiled  the  appeal  presumably to  get	the  legal  positionclarified  ; in such circumstances public interest  did	 notrequire that the stale matter should be resuscitated.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 36  of1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedMay 9, 1957, of the Patna High Court, in Criminal  ReferenceNo.  51	 of  1957 and Criminal Revision	 No.  323  of  1957,arising out of the judgment and order dated March 20,  1957,of  the First Additional Sessions Judge, Patna	in  CriminalRevision No. 14 of 1957.K.   P. Varma and R. C. Prasad, for the appellant.H.   J. Umrigar and B. P. Maheshwari, for the respondents.7281959.	September  14.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered bySUBBA RAO J.-This is an appeal by special leave by the Stateof  Bihar  against  the	 judgment  of  the  High  Court	  ofJudicature  at	Patna  quashing	 the  criminal	 proceedingslaunched  against  the respondents in the Court	 of  Munsif-Magistrate, Patna.The  two respondents were the proprietors of a	firm  calledM/s.  Patna Textiles doing business in cotton at Patna.	  OnAugust 30, 1955, they despatched two bales of saries to M/s.Hiralal Basudev Prasad, cloth merchants of Balia, from PatnaGhat without obtaining a permit from the Textile Controller,Bihar.	 They  were prosecuted under s. 7 of  the  EssentialCommodities  Act, 1955 (X of 1955), hereinafter	 called	 theAct,  read  with  s. 3 of the Cotton  Textiles	(Control  ofMovement) Order, 1948, hereinafter called the Order, in	 theCourt  of  the Munsif-Magistrate,  Patna.   The	 respondentsfiled  a petition before the said Munsif-Magistrate  prayingfor  their  discharge  on  the	ground	that  the  EssentialSupplies  (Temporary  Powers)  Act,  1946  (XXIV  of  1946),hereinafter  called the 1946 Act, whereunder the said  Orderwas  made,  had	 been repealed, and,  therefore,  the  Orderceased to have any legal force thereafter, and	consequentlythey  could not be prosecuted under the expired Order.	 TheMunsif-Magistrate  rejected that petition.   The  AdditionalSessions   Judge,   Patna,  after   perusing   the   recordstransmitted  the same to the High Court under s. 438 of	 theCode  of Criminal Procedure with his opinion that the  orderof the Munsif-Magistrate was wrong and, therefore, it  mightbe set aside with the direction to the Munsif-Magistrate  todischarge  the	accused.   The	respondents  also  filed   arevision to the High Court against the order of the  Munsif-Magistrate.   The  reference as well as	 the  revision	wereheard together by Imam, J., of the High Court at Patna,	 andthe  learned Judge accepting the reference and the  revisionset  aside the order of the Munsif-Magistrate  and  directedthe accused to be discharged.  Hence the appeal.729The  learned Counsel appearing for the state contended	thatthe  Order made under the 1946 Act was saved under s. 16  ofthe  Essential	Commodities Ordinance of  1955,	 hereinaftercalled	the  Ordinance,	 and  s. 16 (2)	 of  the  Act,	and,therefore,  the	 accused were validly prosecuted  under	 theprovisions  of	the  Order.  The  learned  Counsel  for	 therespondents argued that the order was not saved under eitherof the said two sections.To appreciate the contention of the parties, it is necessaryto  notice  the	 relevant provisions of the  1946  Act,	 theOrder, the Ordinance and the Act.Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Act, 1946.S.   1	(3) : It shall cease to have effect on	the  twenty-sixth  day of January, 1955, except as respects things	doneor omitted to be done before that date, and section 6 of theGeneral Clauses Act, 1897 (X of 1897), shall apply upon	 theexpiry	of  this Act as if it had then been  repealed  by  aCentral Act.S.   3 (1): The Central Government, so far as it appears  toit   to	 be  necessary	or  expedient  for  maintaining	  orincreasing  supplies  of  any essential	 commodity,  or	 forsecuring  their equitable distribution and  availability  atfair  prices,  may  by	order  provide	for  regulating	  orprohibiting the production, supply and distribution  thereofand trade and commerce therein.Cotton Textiles (Control of Movement) Order, 1948.S.   3: No person shall transport or cause to be transportedby rail, road, air, sea or inland navigation any cloth, yarnor apparel except under and in accordance with-(i)  a	general permit notified in the Gazette of  India  bythe Textile Commissioner; or(ii) a	special	 transport  permit  issued  by	the  TextileCommissioner.The Essential Commodities Ordinance, 1955.Preamble: "   Whereas  the  Essential  Supplies	  (TemporaryPowers)	 Act, 1946 (XXIV of 1946), which confers  powers  tocontrol the production,730supply	and  distribution  of, and trade  and  commerce	 in,certain	 commodities,  expires on the 26th day	of  January,1955;.............................................	 thePresident in pleased to promulgate the following Ordinance:"S.   16:  Any  order  made or deemed to be  made  under	 theEssential  Supplies  (Temporary Powers) Act, 1946  (XXIV  of1946),	and in force immediately before the commencement  ofthis  Ordinance shall, in so far as such order may  be	madeunder  this  Ordinance,	 be deemed to  be  made	 under	thisOrdinance  and	continue  in  force,  and  accordingly	 anyappointment  made,  licence or permit granted  or  directionissued under any such order and in force immediately  beforesuch  commencement shall continue in force unless and  untilit is superseded by any appointment made, licence or  permitgranted or direction issued under this Ordinance.This  Ordinance	 was published in the Gazette  of  India  onJanuary 21, 1955, and came into force on January 26, 1955.The Essential Commodities Act, 1955.S.   3 (1): If the Central Government is of opinion that  itis  necessary  or  expedient so to  do	for  maintaining  orincreasing  supplies  of  any  essential  commodity  or	 forsecuring  their equitable distribution and  availability  atfair  prices,  it may, by order provide	 for  regulating  orprohibiting the production, supply and distribution  thereofand trade and commerce therein.S.   7	(1): If any person contravenes any order made  undersection 3-(a)  he shall be punishable-(i)  in	 the case of an order made with reference to  clause(h)  or clause (i) of sub-section (2) of that section,	withimprisonment  for  a term which may extend to one  year	 andshall also be liable to fine, and(ii) in the case of any other order, with imprisonment for aterm  which  may  extend to three years and  shall  also  beliable to fine:731Provided that if the Court is of opinion that a sentence  offine only will meet the ends of justice, it may, for reasonsto  be	recorded,  refrain  from  imposing  a  sentence	  ofimprisonment;......S.   16 (1): The following laws are hereby repealed :-(a)  the Essential Commodities Ordinance, 1955;(b)  any other law in force in any State immediately  beforethe commencement of this Act in so far as such law  controlsor  authorizes	the control of the  production,	 supply	 anddistribution  of, and trade and commerce in,  any  essentialcommodity.(2): Notwithstanding  such repeal, any order made or  deemedto  be	made  by any authority	whatsoever,  under  any	 lawrepealed   hereby  and	in  force  immediately	before	 thecommencement of this Act, shall, in so far as such order maybe made under this Act, be deemed to be made under this	 Actand continue in force, and accordingly any appointment made,licence or permit granted or direction issued under any suchorder  and  in force immediately  before  such	commencementshall continue in force until and unless it is superseded byany appointment made, licence or permit granted or directionissued under this Act.(3): The  provisions  of sub-section (2)  shall	 be  withoutprejudice  to the provisions contained in section 6  of	 theGeneral	 Clauses  Act, 1897 (X of 1897),  which	 shall	alsoapply  to the repeal of the Ordinance or other law  referredto in sub-section (1) as if such Ordinance or other law	 hadbeen an enactment.The  said provisions may be briefly summarized	thus:  Underthe  Act  of 1946, the Central Government had the  power  tomake an order for regulating or prohibiting the	 production,supply and distribution of essential commodities.  That	 Actitself	provided  that	it would cease	to  have  effect  onJanuary 26, 1955.  In exercise of the powers conferred unders. 3 of the said Act, the Central Government made the CottonTextile	 (Control of Movement) Order, 1948, prohibiting	 anyperson732from transporting cloth, among others, without the permit ofthe  Textile  Commissioner.  Before the Act ceased  to	haveeffect,	 i.e.,	on  January  26,  1955,	 the  Ordinance	 waspromulgated  on January 21, 1955, conferring on the  CentralGovernment  a power similar to that conferred upon it  unders. 3 of the 1946 Act.  The said Ordinance also provided	 forsaving	clauses in respect of certain things done under	 the1946 Act.  On April 1, 1955, the Act was passed	 practicallyreenacting  the	 same  provisions  of  the  Ordinance,	 andthereunder   the  same	power  exercised  by   the   CentralGovernment  under  s.  3 of the 1946 Act and  s.  3  of	 theOrdinance was preserved.  The Act also provided for  repealsand  savings.  The question, therefore, is whether,  on	 thedate of commission of the offence, the Order whereunder	 theprosecution was launched was subsisting or whether it ceasedto exist.  It is common case that an Order made under an Actceases to have any legal force after the expiry of the	termfor  which  the Act is made.  But it is contended  that	 theOrder  survived the expiry of the 1946 Act by reason of	 thesaving	clauses	 provided  by the  Ordinance  and  the	Act.Ordinarily,  the  Order should have expired on	January	 26,1955.	Unless	it was saved by s. 16 of the  Ordinance	 thesaving clause of the Act could not operate on it.  We shall,therefore,  consider  the  question from  two  aspects:	 (i)whether	 s. 16 of the Ordinance saved the operation  of	 theOrder; and (ii) if it saved it, whether	 s.  16(2)  of	 theAct gave it a further lease of life.Section	 16  of the Ordinance is in two	 parts.	  Under	 thefirst part,, "any order made or deemed to be made under	 theEssential  Supplies  (Temporary Powers) Act,  1946,  and  inforce immediately before the commencement of this  Ordinanceshall,	in  so	far as such order may  be  made	 under	thisOrdinance,  be	deemed to be made under this  Ordinance	 andcontinue   in  force."	The  necessary	condition  for	 theoperation of this part of s. 16 is admittedly complied with.The Order made under s. 3 of the 1946 Act can be made  unders. 3 of the Ordinance; and, if so, by reason of the  expresswords  of the section, the Order must be deemed to  be	madeunder the Ordinance and continue to be in force733after its promulgation.	 But it is said that the second partof  the	 section  cuts	down  the  wide	 amplitude  of	 thephraseology used in the first part.  After stating that	 thesaid  Order shall continue to be in force, the	second	partproceeds  to state " and accordingly any  appointment  made,licence or permit granted or direction issued under any suchorder  and  in force immediately  before  such	commencementshall continue in force unless and until it is superseded byany appointment made, licence or permit granted or directionissued	under  this Ordinance ". If the Order  continues  inforce, the argument proceeds, the second part of the sectionbecomes otiose, for the appointment made, licence or  permitgranted	 or direction issued under the	Order  automaticallycontinues  in force, and, therefore, there is  no  necessityfor  enacting the second part of s. 16. The  anomaly  occurseven  if  the argument be accepted, for, in that  event	 thefirst  part  becomes  unnecessary: The same  result  can  beachieved  by  enacting	only the second part of	 s.  16	 andomitting  the  first  part  altogether.	  To  ascertain	 themeaning of a section it is not permissible to omit any	partof  it:	 the whole section should be read  together  and  anattempt	 should be made to reconcile both the parts.   Thereis  no ambiguity in the provisions of the first part of	 thesection.   In  clear  and unambiguous terms  it	 posits	 thecontinuation  in  force	 of the	 Order	notwithstanding	 therepeal	of  the Act ; thereafter, it proceeds  to  enumeratecertain	 past  acts  done  under the  Order,  and  in  forceimmediately  before  the commencement of the  Ordinance	 andsays that they will continue in force in consequence of	 thecontinuance  of the Order.  The word " accordingly ",  whichmeans consequently, indicates that the enumerated acts	willnot  continue in force but for the continuance of the  Orderitself: they depend upon the continuation of the Order.	  Itis  said that this interpretation imputes tautology  to	 thelegislature,  and,  therefore, should not  be  accepted.   Ascrutiny  of the section shows that the second part  is	 notreally	redundant, as at the first blush it appears  to	 be.Under  s. 16 of the Ordinance, the Order made under the	 Actof 1946 continues to be93734in force till another Order is made under the Ordinance.  Itcovers	two  periods: (i) the period up to the date  of	 thecommencement   of  the	Ordinance;  and	 (ii)	the   periodthereafter.   The first part gives life to that Order,	and,therefore, the acts authorised under that Order can be	donesubsequent to the coming into force of the Ordinance.  But aquestion may be raised whether the past acts done under thatOrder are saved by the continuance of the Order, or  whetherthe  acts  already done are covered by the  words  that	 the"Order shall continue in force ". The second part appears tohave   been  enacted  for  the	purpose	 of  avoiding	thisdifficulty or, at any rate, to dispel the ambiguity.   Underthe  section  both the Order and the  acts  previously	doneunder the Order are saved.  If so, it follows that the Orderwas saved and the prosecution authorized by the Order  couldlegitimately  be  launched  after the  Ordinance  came	intoforce.Even  so, it is contended that the Order saved by s.  16  ofthe Ordinance fell with the repeal of that Ordinance and wasnot  continued under the Act.  This argument is	 based	uponthe provisions of s. 16(1) and (2) of  the Act.	 Section  16has three sub-sections.	 For  the  present  argument we	 areconcerned only with sub- ss.  (1)  and (2) of s.  16.	Sub-section (2) is a repetition of s.  16 of the Ordinance.	 Butit  is said that s. 16(1)(b) of the Act indicates  that	 theOrder was not saved under that section.	 Under s.  16(1)(a),the Essential Commodities Ordinance, 1955, is repealed,	 andunder  s.  16(1)(b)  "any other law in force  in  any  Stateimmediately before the commencement of this Act in so far assuch   law  controls  or  authorizes  the  control  of	 theproduction,  supply  and  distribution	of,  and  trade	 andcommerce  in,  any essential commodity " is  also  repealed.The argument is that the Order is comprehended by the  words"  any other law " in cl. (b) of s., 16(1), and,  therefore,when that Order is repealed under cl. (b) of s. 16(1), it isunreasonable to hold that it is restored under sub-s. (2) ofs.  16.	  To put it in other words, an intention  cannot  beimputed to the legislature to repeal an order under one sub-section	 and restore it by another sub-section.	 If  we	 maysay735so, there is a fallacy underlying this argument.  The  words" any other law " in s. 16(1)(b) can only mean any law otherthan the Essential Commodities Ordinance, 1955, mentioned ins. 16(1)(a).  It is admitted that there are laws other	thanthe  said Ordinance in force in many States controlling	 theproduction,    supply	and   distribution   of	   essentialcommodities.   An order made or deemed to be made under	 theCommodities  Ordinance, 1955, cannot be described as  a	 lawother than Essential Commodities Ordinance whereunder it  ismade.  Such an order is comprehended by cl. (a) of s.  16(1)itself,	 and, therefore, cl. (b) thereof has no	 applicationto it.	In this view, 'an interpretation different from thatwe have put on the provisions of s.	16 of the  Ordinancecannot be given to sub-s. (2) of s.	16 of the Act.	 Forthe reasons we have given in interpreting the provisions  ofs. 16 of the Ordinance, we hold that under s. 16(2) both theorder  and  the	 acts enumerated in the second	part  of  itsurvived the expiry of the Ordinance and continued in  forceunder  the  Act.  For the above reasons, we  hold  that	 theprosecution  was validly launched against the accused  unders. 3 of the Order.Even  so, the learned Counsel for the  respondents  contendsthat it is not a fit case for this Court to interfere  underArt.  136 of the Constitution.	The offence was	 alleged  tohave been committed on August 30, 1955, i.e., more than fouryears  ago.   The  varying views  expressed  by	 the  Courtsindicate  that	there  was  a  plausible  justification	 forreasonable belief on the part of the accused that the  Orderdid not survive the expiry of the life of the 1946 Act.	 Theorder  of  the High Court dismissing  the  'application	 forleave to appeal to the Supreme Court shows that it was filedin  contravention  of the provisions of r. 28 of  the  PatnaHigh  Court  Rules.  Under the said  Rules  the	 applicationshould	have been filed immediately after the  judgment	 wasdelivered.   In	 the  affidavit filed  in  support  of	thatapplication the only reason given for not doing so was	thatthe appellant did not give the necessary instructions.	 Thelearned Judge of the High  Court rightly did not accept thatreason as a sufficient736ground for permitting the application to be filed at a laterstage.	 In the application for special leave filed in	thisCourt,	though it was stated that the application  filed  inthe High Court for certificate was rejected, the reason	 forthe  rejection	was  not  disclosed.   Further,	 the  State,presumably,  filed  this appeal to get	the  legal  positionclarified.   We also believe that public interest  does	 notrequire	 that the stale matter should be  resuscitated.	  Inthe circumstances, we would be justified not to exercise ourdiscretionary  jurisdiction, and we accordingly dismiss	 theappeal.Appeal dismissed.