PETITIONER:THE COMMISSIONER OF AGRICULTURALINCOME-TAX	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE CALVARY MOUNT ESTATES (PRIVATE)LTD.DATE OF JUDGMENT:15/12/1960BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.HIDAYATULLAH, M.SHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1961 AIR 1099		  1961 SCR  (3) 285ACT:Agricultural  Income  Tax-Rubber  Plantation-Expenditure  onimmature  trees-Whether permissible  deduction-Madras  Plan-tations Agricultural Income-tax Act, 1955 (Mad.	 V of 1955),s. 5(e).HEADNOTE:The  assessee owned an Estate of 590 acres out of which	 235acres  were occupied by immature non-bearing  rubber  trees,for  the  maintenance  and upkeep of  which  the  respondentclaimed	 expenses from out of the income, which was  allowedboth  by the Agricultural Income Tax Tribunal and  the	HighCourt.	The appellant came up by special leave.Held,  that the provisions of s. 5(e) of the Madras  Planta-tions  Agricultural Income Tax Act, 1955 (Mad.	V of  1955),applicable to the present case, and those of s. 5(1) of	 theTravancore-Cochin  Agricultural	 Income Tax Act,  1950	(Tr.Co. XXII of 1950) being the same, the judgment in TravancoreRubber	& Tea Co.  Ltd. v. The Commissioner of	AgriculturalIncome-tax,  Kerala, in which the question of  deductibilityof  sums expended for purposes of forking, manuring etc.  ofimmature  rubber  trees had been decided, will	govern	thiscase.Travancore  Rubber  & Tea Co. Ltd. v.  The  Commissioner  ofAgricultural  Income-tax,  Kerala,  [1961]  3  S.C.R.	279,applied.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No, 145 of 1960.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedMarch  18,  1958, of the Kerala High Court in  Tax  RevisionCase No. 12 of 1957.V.A. Seyid Muhamad and Sardar Bahadur, for the appellant.C.K.   Daphtary,  Solicitor-General  of	  India,   ThomasVellapally, S. N. Andley, J. B.	 Dadachanji, Rameshwar	Nathand P. L. Vohra, for the respondent.1960.  December 15.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredby286KAPUR,	J.-This	 is an appeal by special leave	against	 thejudgment  and  order  of the High Court	 of  Kerala  in	 TaxRevision No. 12 of 1957.The  respondent who is the assessee owned an estate  of	 590acres  in South Malabar district, now in Kerala State.	 Outof  that  area 85 acres were covered  by  Pepper,  Arecanut,Paddy and Coconut cultivation while the rest i.e. 505  acreshad rubber plantations upon it.	 Of that area 235 acres wereoccupied by immature non-bearing rubber trees and 270' acreshad mature rubber trees.  The assessment relates to the year1955-56, the accounting year being the year ending March 31,1955.	The  respondent	 claimed  from	out  of	 the  incomeexpenses relating to the maintenance and upkeep of  immaturenon-bearing  rubber  trees.   The  Agricultural	 Income	 taxTribunal  held that the expenses incurred on the whole	areaunder  rubber  plantations  were  deductible  expenses	 andremanded the case for ascertaining the expenses incurred  inforking	 and  manuring	of the	"non-bearing  and  immature"rubber	grown  areas also.  The appellant then	preferred  arevision application to the High Court under s. 54(1) of theMadras	Plantations Agricultural Income Tax Act, 1955  (Mad.V  of 1955).  The High Court held that the amount  spent  onthe  upkeep and maintenance of immature rubber trees  was  adeductible  expenditure	 under	s. 5(e) of  that  Act  whichprovides:	      S.5  "Computation of agricultural	 income:	      The  agricultural income of a person shall  be	      computed	  after	  making    the	   following	      deductions,	      namely:..............................	      :...........  (e) any expenditure incurred  in	      the previous year (not being in the nature  of	      capital  expenditure or personal	expenses  of	      the assessee) laid out or expended wholly	 and	      exclusively    for   the	 purpose   of	 the	      plantation;".The  provisions of s. 5(e) of the Madras Act, applicable  tothe  present case, are the same as those of s. 5(j)  of	 theTravancore  Cochin Agricultural Income Tax Act (Act XXII  of1950).	 The only difference is in the last few	 words.	  Inplace of "for the purpose of the plantation" in the former,the words "for the purpose of287deriving  the agricultural income" are used in	the  latter.If anything the words of the former Act are more  favourableto the respondent.In Travancore Rubber and Tea Company Ltd. v. Commissioner ofAgricultural Income Tax, Kerala (1), which was an assessmentunder  the  Travancore	Cochin	Act,  we  have	decided	 thequestion  of deductibility of sums expended for purposes  offorking, manuring etc. of immature rubber trees.  That judg-ment  will  govern this case also.   This  appeal  thereforefails and is dismissed with costs in this court and the HighCourt.Appeal dismissed		       ___________________