PETITIONER:BRAJNANDAN SINHA	Vs.RESPONDENT:JYOTI NARAIN.DATE OF JUDGMENT:08/11/1955BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.BENCH:BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1956 AIR   66		  1955 SCR  (2) 955ACT:Public	Servants  (Inquiries) Act, 1850 (XXXVII	 of  1850)-ACommissioner appointed thereunder-Whether a court within themeaning of Contempt of Courts Act, 1952 (XXXII of 1952).HEADNOTE:Held,  that  a	Commissioner  appointed	 under	the   PublicServants  (Inquiries)  Act, 1850 (XXVII of 1850)  is  not  acourt within the meaning of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1952(XXXII of 1952).Shell  Co. of Australia v. Federal Commissioner of  Taxation([1931] A.C. 275), Huddart,Parker & Co. v. Moorehead ([1909]8  C.L.R. 330), Rex v. Electricity Commissioners  ([1924]  1K.B.  171), Bharat Bank Limited v. Employees of Bharat	BankLtd.  ([1950] S.C.R. 459), Maqbool Hussain v. The  State  ofBombay ([1953] S.C.R. 730), Cooper v. Wilson ([1937] 2	K.B.309),  S. A, Venkataraman v. The Union of India and  Another([1954]	 S.C.R. 1150), Royal Aquarium and Summer and  WinterGarden	Society	 Ltd.  v. Parkinson  ([1892]  1	 Q.B.  431),Dawkins v. Lord Rokeby ([1873] L.R. 8 Q.B. 265), Kapur Singhv.   Jagat Narain (A.I.R. 1951 Punjab 49) and M. V.  Bajwadev. Dr. S. M. Hassan, (A.I.R. 1954 Nag. 71), referred to.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 25  of1954.Appeal under Article 134(1) (c) of the Constitution from thejudgment and order dated the 12th January 1954 of the  PatnaHigh Court in Criminal Miscellaneous Case No. 10 of 1953.M.  C.	Setalvad,  Attorney-General  of	 India	and  MahabirPrasad,	 Advocate-General of Bihar (Balbhadra  Prasad  Sinhaand P. G. Gokhale, with them) for the appellant.Purshottam  Prikamdas,	(R.   Patnaik,	with  him)  for	 therespondent.1955.	November 8. The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyBHAGWATI  J.-This  appeal  with	 certificate  under  article134(1)(c)  of the Constitution arises out of an	 applicationunder section 2 of the Contempt of Courts121956Act  (XXXII  of 1952) and section 8 of the  Public  Servants(Inquiries)  Act (XXXVII of 1850) read with article  227  ofthe  Constitution  filed  by  the  respondent  against	 theappellant  in  the  High Court of Judicature  at  Patna	 andraises an important question as to whether the	Commissionerappointed under Act XXXVII of 1850 is a Court.The  respondent	 is  a Member of  the  Bihar  Civil  Service(Executive  Branch).  The State Government received  reportsto the effect that the respondent bad been guilty of seriousmisconduct  and	 corrupt practices in the discharge  of	 hisofficial duties while employed as Sub-Divisional Officer  atAurangabad and they accordinly decided that an inquiry	intothe truth of. the various charges against him should be madeunder the provisions of the Public Servants (Inquiries) Act,1850  (Act  XXXVII of 1850, hereinafter referred to  as	 theAct) and Mr. Anjani Kumar Saran who was the then  AdditionalDistrict  and Sessions Judge, Gaya, and was  thereafter	 theDistrict  and  Sessions Judge of that  place  was  appointedCommissioner under the Act for making the inquiry.  Gaya wasfixed  as the venue of the inquiry and the State  Governmentalso  ordered that, during the pendency of the inquiry,	 therespondent  will  remain under suspension.   The  Governmentmade   the   appointment  aforesaid  after   obtaining	 theconcurrence  of	 the High Court on its	administrative	sidewhich was obtained on the condition that an  extra-temporarypost  of Additional District and Sessions Judge was  createdby the Government for the period Mr. Saran was occupied withthe inquiry.  The appointment was made on the 2nd June	1952and it was expected that Mr. Saran would be able to completethe   inquiry  during  a  period  of  three   months.	 Therespondent,  however,  adopted dilatory	 tactics.   He	madevarious	 representations to the Government, one on  the	 6thJune  1952  demanding  that a Judge of	the  High  Court  beappointed as Commissioner under the Act to make the  inquiryagainst	 him  and that inquiry be made at Patna and  not  atGaya,  another on the 10th July 1952 protesting against	 theappointment of Mr. Saran957as  Commissioner  to  hold  the	 inquiry  against  him	 anddemanding  that a' confirmed District and Sessions Judge  beappointed as Commissioner in his place, and' a third on	 the17th  November 1952 in which he requested the Government  toappoint	 three Commissioners instead of one for holding	 theinquiry	 against him and also to pay the entire cost of	 hisdefence	 at  the  same rates at	 which	the  Special  PublicProsecutor engaged by the Government was being paid and alsoto  reimburse  other incidental expenses to be	incurred  byhim.   All  these representations were turned  down  by	 theGovernment.  Being thus thwarted in his attempts to put	 offthe  inquiry  on some pretext or the other,  the  respondenttried to evade the same and failed and neglected to reply tothe  queries  made  from  him  by  the	Commissioner.	 TheCommissioner  also could not communicate to him	 the  orderspassed	by him from time to time because the respondent	 didnot  stay at the headquarters and did not leave	 his  properaddress for communication either at Gaya or at Motihari.  Onthe  24th  November 1952 the Commissioner  passed  an  ordercalling	 upon  the  parties to attend  the  hearing  of	 theproceedings  before  him  on  the  8th	December  1952	 andforwarded  a  copy  of	this  order  to	 the  appellant	 forcommunication  to the respondent.  The District	 Magistratesof  Champaran  and Gaya who were requested-to serve  a	truecopy of the order upon the respondent could not do so as  hewas  available	neither at Motihari nor at Gaya and  it	 waswith  great difficulty that he could be traced at Patna	 andthe  order served upon him.  On the 18th December 1952,	 theCommissioner  passed  another order recording  that  he	 wasfeeling great difficulty in contacting the respondent and incommunicating -his orders to him.  He observed that this wasa  highly  undesirable	state of affairs  and  that  it	 wasnecessary that his orders should be communicated to the res-pondent	 as  early as possible.	 A copy of  this  order	 wasforwarded  by the Commissioner to the appellant	 along	withhis letter dated the 20th December 1952 for information	 anddoing  the  needful.   The appellant  thereafter  wrote	 theletter complained against to958the  Commissioner on the 26th December 1952 being  D.O.	 No.II/3C-306/52A-11614 which ran as under:--"Dear Mr. Saran,   I  am  desired to refer to your memo No. 8266  dated	 the26th  November 1952 and to say that Government	are  anxiousnot to allow Mr. Jyoti Narayan to adopt dilatory tactics anddelay  the  progress of the inquiry against him.   I  am  torequest	 you to be vigilant against such tactics adopted  byMr. Narayan.			       Yours sincerely,			       (Sd.) B. N. Sinha".The Commissioner acknowledged receipt of this letter by	 hisD.O. letter No. 244, dated the 5th January 1953 stating thathe  would  not allow the respondent to	adopt  any  dilatorytactics and delay the progress of the inquiry against him.On  the 2nd February 1953, the respondent filed	 a  petitionbefore	the Commissioner stating inter alia that he had	 notbeen  able  to	engage any lawyer or  counsel  for  want  ofnecessary papers and copies and prayed for an adjournment ofthe  inquiry.	He also prayed for starting  a	contempt  ofCourt proceeding against the appellant but the	Commissionerrejected  both his prayers.  The order which was  passed  bythe  Commissioner on these applications may as well  be	 setout in extenso inasmuch as it has a bearing on the  questionwhether	 the appellant was guilty of contempt of  Court	 forhaving addressed the letter complained against to him:-"3-2-53.  Another point raised in the first petition of	 theaccused	 was  that  Mr.	 B.N.  Sinha,  Deputy  Secretary  toGovernment  in addressing his D.O. letter No.  11614,  datedthe 26th of December, 1952, was guilty of contempt,  becausehe had interfered in my judicial discretion.  I do not	findanything  in this letter from which it can be inferred	thatthe  author  of the letter intended to influence me  in	 theexercise  of my judicial function.  This letter was sent  tome  in reply to my memo No. 8266 dated 26-11-1952 whereby  Ihad  forwarded	a  copy of my  order  dated  24-11-1952	 forcommunication to Mr. Narayan.  Mr.959B.N.  Sinha wrote in his letter dated the 26th	of  December1952  that  Government are anxious not to  allow  Mr.  JyotiNarayan to adopt dilatory tactics and to delay the  progressof  the inquiry.  Now it is to be noted that Mr. Narayan  inparagraph  11 of his petition has himself charged the  StateGovernment  for	 delaying the inquiry  and  thereby  causingharassment  to	him.   Therefore, it is	 obvious  that	bothparties, that is, the State and the accused are anxious thatthe inquiry should be expedited so what Mr. B.N. Sinha meantby  writing  the  D.O.	was  that  the	inquiry	 should	  beexpedited.   This  cannot by any stretch of  imagination  beconstrued  to  mean that the aforesaid officer	in  any	 waytried  to  influence  me in the	 discharge  of	my  judicialfunctions.   For  these reasons I rejected the	two  prayerscontained in the first petition of Mr. J. Narayan".The  respondent thereafter started proceedings in,  contemptagainst	 the  appellant in the High Court of  Judicature  atPatna.	 A  Rule was issued by the High	 Court	against	 theappellant  which  was heard and finally disposed of  on	 the12th June 1954.	 The High Court was of the opinion that	 theCommissioner appointed under Act XXXVII of 1850 was a Court,that  the Court was subordinate to the High Court, that	 theletter	complained against amounted to a contempt  of  Courtand  that  the appellant was guilty of	such  contempt.	  Itaccordingly sentenced the appellant to pay a fine of Rs. 250and  in default to undergo simple imprisonment for a  periodof  one month.	The appellant obtained a  Certificate  underArticle 134(1), (e) of the Constitution from the High Court.The Certificate was, however, limited to the question as  towhether the Commissioner appointed under the Act is a Court. At  the hearing before us, the appellant filed	 a  petitionfor urging additional grounds which included inter alia	 theground	that  the  High	 Court erred  in  holding  that	 theCommissioner appointed under the Act is a Court	 subordinateto  the	 High Court within the meaning of  the	Contempt  ofCourts	Act for the mere reason that its orders are open  tobe reviewed960judicially in exercise of the power vested in the High Courtunder  article 227 of the Constitution and also	 the  groundthat  the  High	 Court	erred in  holding  that	 the  lettercomplained against tended to interfere with or obstruct	 thecourse of justice and constituted contempt of Court.The learned Attorney-General for the appellant contended  inthe first instance that the Commissioner appointed under theAct is not a Court.  He next contended that even if he is  aCourt,	he  is	not a Court subordinate to  the	 High  Courtwithin the meaning of the Contempt of Courts Act.  He lastlycontended that the letter complained against did not tend tointerfere with or obstruct the course of justice and did notconstitute contempt of Court.Prior to the enactment of the Contempt of Courts Act,  1952,there was in existence in India the Contempt of Courts	Act,1926  (XII  of	1926).	The various States  also  had  theircorresponding enactments.  The Contempt of Courts Act,	1926(XII of 1926) and the corresponding enactments in the Statesof  Hyderabad, Madhya Bharat, Mysore, Pepsu,  Rajasthan	 andTravancore-Cochin  and the Saurashtra Ordinance II  of	1948were  repealed	by the Contempt of Courts Act,	1952  and  auniform Act to define and limit the powers of certain Courtsin punishing contempts of Courts was enacted which  extendedto the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.In section 2 of the Act, "High Court" was defined as meaningthe  High  Court for a Part A State or a Part  B  State	 andincluding the Court of the Judicial Commissioner in a Part CState.	Section 3 of the Act enacted:-"3.  (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2)  everyHigh  Court shall have and exercise the	 same  jurisdiction,powers and authority, in accordance with the same  procedureand practice, in respect of contempts of Courts	 subordinateto  it	as it has and exercises in respect of  contempts  ofitself.(2)  No	 High  Court  shall take cognisance  of	 a  contemptalleged	 to  have  been	 committed in  respect	of  a  Courtsubordinate to it where such contempt is an961offence	 punishable under the Indian Penal Code (Act XLV  of1860)".The  word  "Court"  was	 not defined in	 the  Act  and'	 theexpression  "Courts  subordinate to the High  Courts"  wouldprima  facie mean the Courts of law subordinate to the	HighCourts	in  the	 hierarchy of  Courts  established  for	 thepurpose of administration of justice throughout the Union.It would be relevant, however, to notice the definitions  of"Court" available elsewhere.Coke on Littleton and Stroud defined the word "Court" as theplace where justice is judicially administered.According  to  Stephen, "In every Court, there	must  be  atleast three constituent parts-the actor, reus and judex; theactor  or  plaintiff, who complains of an injury  done;	 thereus, or defendant, who is called upon to make	satisfactionfor  it;  and  the judex, or judicial  power,  which  is  toexamine	 the  truth of the fact, and to	 determine  the	 lawarising	 upon that fact, and if any injury appears  to	havebeen  done, to ascertain, and by its officers to apply,	 theremedy".Section	 3  of the Indian Evidence Act (I of  1872)  defines"Court"	 as  including all Judges and Magistrates,  and	 allpersons,  except  arbitrators. legally	authorised  to	takeevidence.  This definition, however, has been held to be notexhaustive  but	 framed	 only  for  the	 purpose  of  IndianEvidence  Act  and  is	not to be  extended  where  such  anextension is not warranted.Sections  19  and 20 of the Indian Penal Code  (Act  XLV  of1860) define the words "Court" and the "Court of Justice" asunder:-"Section 19.  The word 'Judge' denotes not only every personwho  is	 officially designated. as a Judge, but	 also  everyperson-who  is	empowered  by  law to  give,  in  any  legalproceeding,  civil or criminal, a definitive judgment, or  ajudgment which, if not appealed against would be definitive,or  a judgment which, if confirmed by some  other  authoritywould be definitive, orwho  is one of a body of persons, which body of	 persons  isempowered by law to give such a judgment.962Section 20.  The words "Court of Justice" denote a Judge whois  empowered by law to act judicially alone, or a  body  ofJudges	which  is empowered by law to act  judicially  as  abody,	when  such  Judge  or  body  of	 Judges	 is   actingjudicially".The   pronouncement  of	 a  definitive	judgment   is	thusconsidered the essential sine qua non of a Court and  unlessand  until  a  binding and  authoritative  judgment  can  bepronounced  by	a  person or body of persons  it  cannot  bepredicated that he or they constitute a Court.The  Privy Council in the case of Shell Co. of Australia  v.Fedral	Commissioner of Taxation(1) thus  defined  "JudicialPower" at page 295:-"Is this right?	 What is "judicial power"?  Their  Lordshipsare  of	 opinion that one of the best  definitions  is	thatgiven  by  Griffith,  C.  J. in Huddart,  Parker  &  Co.  v.Moorehead(2) where he says: "I am of opinion that the  wordsjudicial  power' as used in section 71 of  the	Constitutionmean  the  power  which every sovereign	 authority  must  ofnecessity have to decide controversies between its subjects,or  between  itself  and its subjects,	whether	 the  rightsrelate	to life, liberty or property.  The exercise of	thispower does not begin until some tribunal which has power  togive  a binding and authoritative decision (whether  subjectto appeal or not) is called upon to take action".Their  Lordships  further  enumerated at  page	297  certainnegative  propositions	in relation to	this  subject:"1.  A	tribunal is not necessarily a Court in	this  strictsense because it gives a final decision;2.   Nor because it hears witnesses on oath;3.   Nor  because  two	or more	 contending  parties  appearbefore	it between whom it has to decide;4. Nor because it gives decisions which affect the rights ofsubjects;5.   Nor because there is an appeal to a Court;6.   Nor because it is a body to which a matter is  referredby another body.See Rex v. Electricity Commissioners(3)"(1) [1931] A.C. 275.	     (2) [1909] 8 C.L.R. 330, 357.(3)  [1924] 1 K.B. 171.963and observed at page 298:"An  administrative tribunal may act judicially,  but  stillremain	an administrative tribunal as distinguished  from  aCourt,	strictly  so-called.  Mere externals do not  make  adirection to an administrative officer by an ad hoc tribunalan exercise by a Court of Judicial power".The  same principle was reiterated by this Court  in  BharatBank Limited v. Employees of Bharat Bank Ltd.(1) and MaqboolHussain	 v.  The  State of Bombay(1) where  the	 test  of  ajudicial  tribunal as laid down in a passage from Cooper  v.Wilson(1) was adopted by this Court:-"A  true judicial decision presupposes an  existing  disputebetween	 two  or  more	parties,  and  then  involves	fourrequisites:--(I)  The presentation (not necessarily  orally)of  their  case by the parties to the dispute;	(2)  if	 thedispute	  between   them  is  a	 question   of	 fact,	 theascertainment  of the fact by means of evidence	 adduced  bythe parties to the dispute and, often with the assistance ofargument by or on behalf of the parties on the evidence; (3)if  the	 dispute  between them is a  question  of  law,	 thesubmission  of	legal arguments by the parties;	 and  (4)  adecision  which	 disposes of the whole matter by  a  findingupon  the facts in dispute and an application of the law  ofthe  land to the facts so found, including where required  aruling upon any disputed question of law".Maqbool	 Hussain's case, above referred to, was followed  bythis Court in S. A. Venkataraman v. The Union of India	and,Another(4)  where  a Constitution Bench of this	 Court	alsolaid down that both finality and authoritativeness were	 theessential tests of a judicial pronouncement.It is clear, therefore, that in order to constitute a  Courtin  the strict sense of the term, an essential condition  isthat  the Court should have, apart from having some  of	 thetrappings  of a judicial tribunal, power to give a  decisionor   a	 definitive   judgment	which	has   finality	 andauthoritativeness which are(1) [1950] S.C.R. 459.	       (2) (1953] S.C.R. 730.(3) [1937] 2 K.B. 309, 340.    (4) [1954] S.C.R. 1150.122964the essential tests of a judicial pronouncement.It was, however, urged by Shri Purshottam Tircamdas for	 therespondent that the word "Court" should not be limited to  aCourt  of Justice or a Court of law but should be  construedin  a  wide sense, including within the	 connotation,  otherCourts	 which,	  though  not  Courts	of   Justice,	werenevertheless  Courts according to law and be relied  upon  adecision of the Court of Appeal in England in Royal Aquariumand  Summer and Winter Garden Society Ltd.  v.	Parkinson(1)and the observations of Fry, L.J. at page 446 therein:"I do not desire to attempt any definition of a "court".  Itis  obvious that, according to our law, a court may  performvarious functions.  Parliament is a court.  Its duties as  awhole are deliberative and legislative: the duties of a partof it only are judicial.  It is nevertheless a court.  Thereare  many other courts which, though not Courts of  Justice,are  nevertheless courts according to our law.	 There	are,for  instance, courts of investigation, like  the  coroner'scourt.	 In  my judgment, therefore, the  existence  of	 theimmunity  claimed does not depend upon the question  whetherthe  subject-matter of consideration is a Court of  Justice,but whether it is a Court in law.  Wherever you find a Courtin  law, to that the law attaches certain privileges,  amongwhich is the immunity in question".The question involved in that case was whether the defendantwas  entitled to absolute immunity from action for  anythingdone  by  him while performing his duty as a member  of	 theCounty Council in dealing with the applications for licencesfor  music  and dancing. It was contended on behalf  of	 thedefendant that he was exercising a judicial function when hespoke the words complained of and therefore was entitled  toabsolute  immunity  in	respect of anything  he	 said.	 Theargument that "wherever you find a Court in law, to that thelaw attaches certain privileges among which is the  immunityin question" was used on behalf of the defendant and Fry, L.J. dealt with the same as under at page 447:-965"It was said that the existence of this immunity is based onconsiderations	of public policy, and that, as a  matter  ofpublic policy, wherever a body has to decide questions,	 andin  so	doing has to act judicially, it must  be  held	thatthere is a judicial proceeding to which this immunity  oughtto attach.  It seems to me that the sense in which the	word"judicial"  is used in that argument is this: it is used  asmeaning	 that  the  proceedings	 are such  as  ought  to  beconducted   with   the	fairness  and	impartiality   whichcharacterize  proceedings  in  Courts of  Justice,  and	 areproper to the functions of a judge, not that the members  ofthe supposed body are members of a Court.  Consider to	whatlengths	 the  doctrine would extend, if this  immunity	wereapplied to every body which is bound to decide judicially inthe  sense  of deciding fairly and  impartially.   It  wouldapply to assessment committees, boards of guardians, to	 theInns  of Court when considering the conduct of one of  theirmembers,  to  the General Medical Council  when	 consideringquestions  affecting the position of a medical man,  and  toall  arbitrators.   Is it necessary, on	 grounds  of  publicpolicy,	 that the doctrine of immunity should be carried  asfar  as	 this?	 I  say not.  I	 say  that  there  is  ampleprotection  afforded  in such cases by the ordinary  law  ofprivilege.  I find no necessity or propriety in carrying thedoctrine so far as this argument requires".Lord Esher, M. R. expressed himself as follows while dealingwith this argument at page 442:-"It  is	 true  that, in respect of statements  made  in	 thecourse of proceedings before a Court of Justice, whether  byjudge,	or  counsel,  or witnesses,  there  is	an  absoluteimmunity  from liability to an action.	The ground  of	thatrule  is  public policy.  It is applicable to all  kinds  ofCourts	of  Justice;  but  the	doctrine  has  been  carriedfurther;  and it seems that this immunity  applies  whereverthere  is an authorized inquiry which, though not  before  aCourt  of  Justice, is before a tribunal which	has  similarattributes.   In the case of Dawkins v. Lord  Rokeby(1)	 thedoctrine was extended(1)  L.R. 8 Q.B. 255; L.R. 7 H.L. 744,966to  a military court of inquiry.  It was so extended on	 theground that the case was one of an authorized inquiry beforea tribunal acting judicially, that is to say, in a manner asnearly	as  possible  similar to that in which	a  Court  ofJustice	 acts  in  respect of an inquiry  before  it.	Thisdoctrine  has never been extended further than to Courts  ofJustice and tribunals acting in a manner similar to that  inwhich  such Courts act.	 Then can it be said that a  meetingof   the  county  council,  when  engaged   in	 consideringapplications  for licences for music and dancing, is such  atribunal?   It is difficult to say who are to be  consideredas judges acting judicially in such a case".The  case  of  Dawkins v. Lord Rokeby(1) was  a	 case  whereimmunity  was  claimed by a witness who had  given  evidencebefore	a military Court of inquiry.  The case went  to	 theHouse  of Lords and the Lord -Chancellor, in his  speech  atpage 754, in 7 H.L. 744 observed:-"Now,  my  Lords, adopting the expressions  of	the  learnedJudges	with regard to what I take to be the settled law  asto  the protection of witnesses in judicial  proceedings,  Icertainly  am  of  opinion that	 upon  all  principles,	 andcertainly  upon	 all considerations of	convenience  and  ofpublic	policy, the same protection which is extended  to  awitness	 in a judicial proceeding who has been	examined  onoath  ought  to	 be extended, and must	be  extended,  to  amilitary man who is called before a Court of Inquiry of thiskind  for the purpose of testifying there upon a  matter  ofmilitary discipline connected with the army".Both these cases, the one before the Court of Appeal and theother  before  the House of Lords, were concerned  with	 theextension  of  the  principle of immunity of  members  of  atribunal or witnesses in judicial proceedings and the Courtslogically  extended  the principle of  immunity	 beyond	 theCourts	of  Justice  to	 tribunals  or	bodies	of   personsfunctioning in a manner and according to procedure which wasassimilated to a judicial inquiry.  The extension of the(1)  L.R. 8 Q.B. 255; L.R. 7 H.L. 744.967immunity  to  such tribunals or bodies would  not,  however,constitute them Courts of Justice or Courts of law.The position is thus summarised in the following passage  inHalsbury's Laws of England, Hailsham Edition, Volume 8, page526:-"Many  bodies are not courts, although they have  to  decidequestions,  and in so doing have to act judicially,  in	 thesense  that the proceedings must be conducted with  fairnessand  impartiality, such as assessment committees,  guardianscommittees,,  the  Court of referees constituted  under	 theUnemployment  Insurance	 Acts to decide claims made  on	 theinsurance funds, the benchers of the Inns of Court when con-sidering  the conduct of one of their members,	the  GeneralMedical	 Council, when considering questions  affecting	 theposition of a medical man".We must, therefore, fall back upon the tests laid down abovefor  determining what is a Court strictly  so-called  withinthe  connotation  of  the term as used in  the	Contempt  ofCourts	Act.  It would be appropriate at this stage to	notethe  relevant provisions of the Public Servants	 (Inquiries)Act  (XXXVII of 1850) which would fall to be considered	 fordetermining whether the Commissioner appointed under the Actis a Court or not.The  Act  was  passed  for  regulating	inquiries  into	 thebehaviour of public servants and the preamble runs:-"Whereas  it  is expedient to amend the law  for  regulatinginquiries   into  the  behaviour  of  public  servants	 notremovable  from their appointments without the	sanction  ofGovernment,  and to make the same uniform throughout  India;It is enacted as follows:-"Section	 2 requires the articles of charges to be drawn	 outand  a formal and public inquiry to be ordered whenever	 theGovernment  shall be of opinion that there are good  groundsfor making a formal and public inquiry into the truth of anyimputation of misbehaviour by any such person.	The  inquirymay be committed under section 3 either to the Court,968Board  or other authorities to which the person	 accused  issubordinate  or	 to any other person  or  persons  speciallyappointed by the Government, Commissioners for the  purpose.Sections 4 to 7 contain provisions in regard to the  conductof  the prosecution and section 8 prescribes the  powers  ofthe  Commissioners.   This  section  has  been	particularlyrelied	upon as constituting the Commissioners a Court,	 andruns as under:-"Section  8. The commissioners shall have the same power  ofpunishing  contempts and obstructions to their	proceedings,as  is	given to Civil and Criminal Courts by  the  Code  ofCriminal Procedure, 1898, and shall have the same powers forthe summons of witnesses, and for compelling the  productionof documents, and for the discharge of their duty under	 thecommission, and shall be entitled to the same protection  asthe  Zila and City Judges, except that all process to  causethe  attendance	 of witnesses or other	compulsory  process,shall  be  served through and executed by the Zila  or	CityJudge  in  whose jurisdiction the witness  or  other  personresides,  on  whom the process is to be served,	 and  if  heresides within Calcutta, Madras or Bombay, then through	 theSupreme	 Court of Judicature thereto.  When  the  commissionhas  been  issued  to a Court, or other	 person	 or  personshaving power to issue such process in the exercise of  theirordinary authority, they may also use all such power for thepurposes of the commission".Section	 9 prescribes a penalty for disobedience to  processissued	as aforesaid for the purpose of the  commission	 andsections 10 to 20 prescribe the procedure to be followed  inthe  conduct  of the inquiry.  It ,may be  noted  that	thisprocedure  is assimilated as far as possible to the  conductof  a prosecution in a Criminal Court of law and the  personaccused	 is given the fullest opportunity to enter upon	 hisdefence	 and lead evidence in order to clear himself of	 thecharges	 levelled against him.	Sections 21 and 22 lay	downthe  functions of the Commissioners in regard to the  reportto  be made by them to the Government of  their	 proceedingsunder the commission and the powers of969the Government to pass final orders on such reports.   Thesesections have an important bearing on the question before usand they enact:-"Section   21.-After   the   close  of	 the   inquiry	 thecommissioners  shall  forthwith report to  Government  theirproceedings  under the commission, and shall send  with	 therecord	thereof their opinion upon each of the	articles  ofcharge separately, with such observations as they think	 fiton the whole case.Section	 22.-The Government, on consideration of the  reportof  the	 commissioners,	 may  order  them  to  take  furtherevidence, or give further explanation of their opinions.  Itmany also order additional articles of charge to be  framed,in which case the inquiry into the truth of such  additionalarticles  shall	 be  made in the same manner  as  is  hereindirected with respect to the original charges.	When specialcommissioners have been appointed, the Government may  also,if  it thinks fit, refer the report of the commissioners  tothe Court or other authority to which the person accused  issubordinate, for their opinion on the case; and will finallypass such orders thereon as appear just and consistent	withits powers in such cases".These  provisions were considered by this Court in the	caseof  S.A. Venkataraman v. The Union of India and	 Another(1).The question that arose for consideration there, was whetheran  inquiry  made and concluded under the  Act	amounted  toprosecution  and punishment for an offence  as	contemplatedunder article 20(2) of the Constitution.  Articles of chargebad  been  framed against the petitioner in  that  case	 andevidence  had  been led both by the prosecutor	and  by	 thedefence	 and witnesses on both sides were examined  on	oathand cross-examined and re-examined in the usual manner.	 TheCommissioner bad found, on a consideration of the  evidence,that  some  of	the  charges had  been	proved	against	 thepetitioner and had submitted a report to that effect to	 theGovernment.   The President had accepted the opinion of	 theCommissioner and, in view of the findings on(1)  [1954] S.C.R. 1150.970the  several  charges  arrived at by the  latter,  was	pro-visionally  of	the opinion that the  petitioner  should  bedismissed.   Opportunity was given to the  petitioner  underArticle 311(2) of the Constitution to show cause against theaction	proposed  to  be taken in regard to  him  and  afterconsidering  his representation and after consultation	withthe  Union Public Service Commission, the President  finallydecided	 to impose the penalty of dismissal upon him and  hewas accordingly dismissed.  After his dismissal, the  policesubmitted  a  charge-sheet against him	before	the  SpecialJudge,	Sessions  Court, Delhi, charging him  with  offencesunder  sections	 161 and 165 of the Indian  Penal  Code	 andsection	 5(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act  and	uponthat summons were issued by the learned Judge directing	 thepetitioner  to	appear	before his  Court.   The  petitionerthereupon  challenged the legality of this proceeding  in  awrit petition contending, that the proceedings were  withoutjurisdiction  inasmuch as they amounted to a fresh  prosecu-tion,  for  offences for which he had  been  prosecuted	 andpunished already.While considering whether under the circumstances there	 hadbeen a violation of the fundamental right of the  petitionerunder  Article	20(2)  of  the	Constitution,  this   Court,scrutinised  the provisions of the Act and the	position  ofthe Commissioner appointed, thereunder.	 Justice  Mukherjea,as  he	then was, delivered the judgment of  the  Court	 andobserved at page 1159:-"As  the law stands at present, the only purpose, for  whichan  enquiry under Act XXXVII' of 1850 could be made,  is  tohelp  the  Government  to  come	 to  a	definite  conclusionregarding  the	misbehaviour of a public  servant  and	thusenable	it to determine provisionally the  punishment  whichshould be imposed upon him, prior to giving him a reasonableopportunity  of showing cause, as is required under  article311(2)	of the Constitution.  An enquiry under this  Act  isnot at all compulsory and it is quite open to the Governmentto adopt any other method if it so chooses.  It is a  matterof convenience merely and971nothing	 else.	It is against this background that  we	willhave  to  examine  the material	 provisions  of	 the  PublicServants  (Inquiries) Act of 1850 and see whether  from	 thenature and result of the enquiry which the Act	contemplatesit  is at all possible to say that the proceedings taken  orconcluded under the Act amount to prosecution and punishmentfor a criminal offence.";and at page 1160:-"A  Commissioner  appointed under this Act has	no  duty  toinvestigate any offence which is punishable under the IndianPenal  Code or the Prevention of Corruption Act and  he	 hasabsolutely no jurisdiction to do so.  The subject-matter  ofinvestigation  by  him	is the truth  or  otherwise  of	 theimputation of misbehaviour made against a public servant andit  is	only as instances of misbehaviour that	the  severalarticles of charge are investigated, upon which disciplinaryaction	might be taken by the Government if it	so  chooses.The  mere  fact that the word "prosecution" has	 been  used,would  not make the proceeding before the  Commissioner	 onefor  prosecution of an offence.	 As the Commissioner has  toform his opinion upon legal evidence, be has been given	 thepower to summon witnesses, administer oath to them and	alsoto  compel production of relevant documents.  These  may  besome  of  the  trappings of a judicial	tribunal,  but	theycannot	make the proceeding anything more than a  mere	factfinding	 enquiry.  This is conclusively established  by	 theprovisions  of sections 21 and 22 of the Act.  At the  closeof  the enquiry, the Commissioner has to submit a report  tothe  Government	 regarding his finding on each	one  of	 thecharges	 made.	This is a mere expression of opinion and  itlacks  both  finality and authoritativeness  which  are	 theessential tests of a judicial pronouncement.  The opinion isnot even binding on the Government.  Under section 22 of theAct,  the Government can, after receipt of the report,	callupon  the  Commissioner	 to take further  evidence  or	givefurther	  explanation	of  his	  opinion.    When   SpecialCommissioners are appointed, their report could be  referredto the court or other authority123972to  which the officer concerned is subordinate	for  furtheradvice	and  after  taking  the	 opinion  of  the  differentauthorities  and  persons,  the	 Government  has  to  decidefinally what action it should take".The  Court was no doubt concerned in that case with  findingwhether	 the inquiry before the Commissioner was  tantamountto  a prosecution of the petitioner.  While considering	 thesame,	however,  the  position	 of  the  Commissioner	 wasdiscussed  and	the conclusion to which the Court  came	 wasthat  he was a mere fact finding authority, that the  reportmade  by the Commissioner to the Government was	 merely	 hisexpression of opinion and it lacked both finality and  auth-oritativeness  which are the essential tests of	 a  judicialpronouncement.	 This conclusion is sufficient to  establishthat  the  Commissioner appointed under the Act	 was  not  aCourt  and  his	 report or findings were  not  a  definitivejudgment  or a judicial pronouncement inasmuch as they	werenot  binding and authoritative and lacked finality.  We	 arealso   of   the	 same  opinion.	  Apart	  from	 the   aboveconsiderations which weighed with the Court in that case, wehave  also  the provisions of section 8 of  the	 Act  itselfwhich  go to show that the Commissioners are  given  certainpowers	'of  the  Civil and Military  Courts  in  regard  topunishing  contempts and obstruction to	 their	proceedings,summoning   of	witnesses,  compelling	the  production	  ofdocuments and for service of their process as also the	sameprotection as Zila and City Judges.  The very fact that thisprovision  had got to be enacted shows that the position  ofthe Commissioners was not assimilated to that of Judges	 andthat they did not constitute Courts of Justice or Courts  oflaw  but were mere fact finding tribunals deriving  whateverpowers	they could exercise under the very terms of the	 Actwhich  created them.  The power of punishing  contempts	 andobstruction  to their, proceedings as is given to Civil	 andCriminal Courts by the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898	 wasalso similar in its nature and the very nature and extent ofthe  power  indicated  that  they were	not  Courts  in	 theordinary  sense of the term.  No such provision	 would	havebeen973uted  Courts  of  Justice  or Courts of law  and  it  is  noargument  to  say that these provisions	 were  enacted	eventhough they were not strictly necessary merely for the	sakeof  abundant caution or clarification of the  position.	  Weare of the opinion that the Commissioner appointed under theAct, having regard to the circumstances above set out,	doesnot  constitute	 a Court-within the meaning of the  term  asused in the Contempt of Courts Act.Our  attention	was,  however,	drawn  by,  Shri  PurshottamTricamdas  to a decision of a Division Bench of	 the  PunjabHigh  Court in Kapur Singh v. Jagat Narain(1).	That  was  acase directly in point and on all fours with the case beforeus.  The learned Chief Justice of the Punjab High Court	 badbeen appointed a Commissioner under the Act in the matter ofan  inquiry  against Sardar Kapur Singh,  I.C.S.,  and	LalaJagat Narain, the editor, printer and publisher of ail	UrduDaily  newspaper  published at Jullundur  called  The  HinduSamachar, was called upon to show cause why he should not bepunished  under	 section 3 of Contempt of  Courts  Act	withregard	to a leading article which appeared in his  name  inthe  issue  of	the  paper dated the  12th  March  1951.   Apreliminary objection was taken on his behalf that the Courthad  no	 jurisdiction to take proceedings  against  him	 forcontempt  and  the  argument  was  that	 the  Court  of	 theCommissioner appointed to hold an inquiry under the Act	 wasnot a Court and in any event was not a Court subordinate  tothe  High  Court.   Mr. Justice Falshaw	 who  delivered	 thejudgment of the Court observed at page 50 in connection withthis  argument: "The Public Servants (Inquiries) Act  itselfseems	clearly	  to  indicate	that   a   Commissioner	  orCommissioners appointed under the Act constitute a Court  asthey  are  given  all the powers of a  Court  regarding	 thesummoning  of  witnesses  and other matters,  and  the	onlyground on which the learned counsel for the respondent couldbase his argument that the Commissioner does not  constitutea Court was that he can(1)  A.I.R. 1951 Punjab 49.974give  no final decision, but merely has to draw up a  reportgiving	his  findings on the charge or charges	against	 therespondent, which is to be forwarded to the Government.	  Inmy  opinion, however, this fact alone is not  sufficient  tomake the Commissioner or Commissioners any thing other	thana  Court and it is to be noted that the definition of  Courtin section 3, Evidence Act, is very wide indeed as it reads:"'Court' includes all Judges and Magistrate and all persons,except	arbitrators, legally authorised to  take  evidence".The learned Judges there relied upon the definition of Courtgiven in section 3 of the Indian Evidence Act which, as	 hasalready	 been noted, is framed only for the purposes of	 theAct and is not to be extended where such an extension is notwarranted.    This   definition	 does  not   help   in	 thedetermination  of  the question	 whether  the  Commissionersappointed under the Act constitute a Court and the attentionof  the	 learned Judges was not drawn to the  position	thatfinality and authoritativeness are the essential tests of  ajudicial  pronouncement.   We are of the  opinion  that	 thedecision  reached by the learned Judges of the	Punjab	HighCourt in that case was wrong and cannot help the respondent.Our  attention	was also drawn to another  decision  of	 theNagpur High Court in M. V. Rajwade v. Dr. S. M.	  Hassan(1).The  question  which came to be considered by the  Court  inthat  case  was	 whether a commission  appointed  under	 theCommissions  of	 Inquiry Act, 1952 was a, Court	 within	 themeaning	 of section 3 of the Contempt of Courts	 Act,  1952,and,  while  considering  the provisions of  that  Act,	 thelearned	 Judges	 of  the  Nagpur  High	Court	incidentallyconsidered the provisions of the Public Servants (Inquiries)Act, 1850.  They rightly observed that "the term 'Court' hasnot  been defined in the Contempt of Courts Act, 1952.	 TheAct, however, does contemplate a 'Court of Justice' which asdefined	 in section 20, Indian Penal Code, 1860, denotes  'ajudge who is empowered by law to act judicially'.  The leastthat  is  required of a Court is the capacity to  deliver  a"definitive judg-(1)  A.I.R. 1954 Nag. 71.975ment"  and  unless  this power vests in a  tribunal  in	 anyparticular case, the mere fact that the procedure adopted byit  is	of  a  legal  character and  it	 has  the  power  toadminister  an	oath will not impart to it the status  of  aCourt",	 and  came  to the conclusion  that  the  commissionappointed under the Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952 is	 nota  Court within the meaning of the Contempt of 'Courts	Act,1952.	The  learned  Judges  were  merely  considering	 theprovisions of the Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952 and	werenot concerned with the construction of the provisions of thePublic	 Servants   (Inquiries)	 Act,  1850   and   whateverobservations  they made in regard to the provisions  of	 thelatter Act by way of comparing the same with the  provisionsof  the former which they were there considering  would	 nothave  the effect of putting on the provisions of the  latterAct  a	construction  which  would  be	any  avail  to	 therespondent  before us.	The ratio which was adopted  by	 thelearned	 Judges was quite correct but it appears  that	theydigressed  into	 a consideration of the	 provisions  of	 thePublic Servants (Inquiries) Act, 1850 in order to  emphasizethe character and position of the commission appointed underthe Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952 even though it was	 notstrictly  necessary  for the purpose of	 arriving  at  theirdecision, though it must be mentioned that while  discussingthe  nature  and function of the commission  they  expressedthemselves correctly as under:-"The Commission governed by the Commissions of Inquiry	Act,1952   is  appointed  by  the  State  Government  "for	 theinformation  of its own mind", in order that it	 should	 notact, in exercise of its executive power, "otherwise than  inaccordance  with  the  dictates	 of  justice  &	 equity"  inordering  a departmental enquiry against its  officers.	  Itis,  therefore, a fact finding body meant only	to  instructthe mind of the Government without producing any document ofa judicial nature".We are of the opinion that neither of these cases which havebeen relied upon by Shri Purshottam Tricamdas is of any helpto the respondent or detracts976from the true position as we have laid down above.  The onlyconclusion  to which we can come on a consideration  of	 allthe relevant provisions of the Act is that the	Commissionerappointed under the Act is not a Court within the meaning ofthe Contempt of Courts Act, 1952.In view of the conclusion reached above, we do not think  itnecessary  to go into the question whether the	Commissionerappointed  under the Act is a Court subordinate to the	HighCourt within the meaning of the Contempt of Courts Act.	 Nordo  we	think  it necessary to express	any  opinion  as  towhether the letter complained against constituted a contemptof Court.  We may, however, note in passing that the circum-stances	 under which the letter came to be addressed by	 theappellant  to  the Commissioner, the terms thereof  and	 theorder	which  was  passed  by	the  Commissioner   on	 theapplication  made by the respondent to proceed	against	 theappellant  in  contempt on date the 2nd February  1953	lendsupport to the argument which was advanced on behalf of	 theappellant  that	 the  letter  complained  against  did	 notconstitute contempt of Court.The  result, therefore, is that the appeal will be  allowed,the  order passed against the appellant by the	Court  belowwill  be set aside and the original  Criminal  MiscellaneousPetition No. 10 of 1953 filed by the respondent in the	HighCourt of Judicature at Patna will stand dismissed.  The fineif paid will be refunded.977