PETITIONER:P. L.  LAKHANPAL	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF JAMMU AND KASHMIR.DATE OF JUDGMENT:20/12/1955BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, SUDHI RANJANBHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.JAGANNADHADAS, B.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1956 AIR  197		  1955 SCR  (2)1101ACT:Constitution of India, Arts. 13, 21, 22 and 35(c)-Jammu	 andKashmir Preventive Detention Act, 2011 (Act VI of 2011),  s.3(1) (a)(i) and s. 8(1) Proviso-Constitution (Application toJammu  and  Kashmir) Order, 1954-Detention order  under	 theprovisions  of ss. 3 (1)(a)(i) and 8(1) Proviso of the	Act-Whether	 violates fundamental rights guaranteed under  Arts.21  and	 22  of the  Constitution-Nonsupply  of	 grounds  ofdetention to Detenu- Whether violates his fundamental right-Addition of clause (c) to Art. 35 of the Constitution Effectof.HEADNOTE:The  petitioner	 was  detained	in  Kothibagh  sub-jail	  inSrinagar by the order of Jammu and Kashmir Government  underthe  provisions	 of s. 3(1)(a)(i) of the Jammu	and  KashmirPreventive Detention Act, 2011,1102The  petitioner	 challenged the order of  detention  on	 thegrounds,   inter  alia,	 (i)  that  it	encroached  on	 hisfundamental right to life and personal liberty guaranteed tohim  under  Art. 21 of the Constitution as extended  to	 theState  of  Jammu  and Kashmir, (ii)  that  it  violated	 hisfundamental right guaranteed to him under clause (5) to Art.22  of	the Constitution as extended to	 Jammu	and  KashmirState  inasmuch as the petitioner was not supplied with	 thegrounds	 on which the order of detention was based.  It	 wascontended  that	 s.  8(1)  Proviso,  of	 Jammu	and  KashmirPreventive  Detention Act, 2011, under which the grounds  ofdetention were not supplied to him, was unconstitutional  asbeing inconsistent with Arts. 21 and 22 of the	Constitutionand thus void to the extent of that inconsistency in view ofthe provisions of Art. 13 of the Constitution.Held  (overruling the contention) that s. 8 (1)	 Proviso  isnot   unconstitutional	 in  view  of  the   provisions	  ofConstitution (Application to Jammu and Kashmir) Order,	1954which supersedes the Constitution (Jammu and Kashmir) Order,1950,  and of clause (c) which has been added to Art. 35  ofthe Constitution.The effect of the modification of Art. 35 by the addition ofclause (c) thereto is that such of the provisions of the Actas are inconsistent with Part III of the Constitution  shallbe  valid  until  the  expiration of  five  years  from	 thecommencement of the Order.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 396 of 1955.Under  Article	32  of the Constitution for a  writ  in	 thenature of Habeas Corpus.R.   Patnaik, for the petitioner.M.   C. Setalvad, Attorney-General of India, C. K.Daphtary,  Solicitor-General of India, Raja  Jaswant  Singh,Advocate-General, Jammu and Kashmir (-P.  A. Mehta and R. H.Dhebar, with them) for the respondent.M.   C.	 Setalvad, Attorney-General of India (P.   A.  Mehtaand R. H. Dhebar, with him) for the Intervener.1955.  December 20.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbySINHA  J.-This	application for a writ of habeas  corpus  isdirected against the State of Jammu and Kashmir which has byits  order  dated  the	4th  October,  1955,  directed	 thedetention of the petitioner under section 3 of the Jammu andKashmir Preven-1103tive  Detention	 Act, (Jammu and Kashmir Act  IV  of  2011),hereinafter to be referred to as "the Act".  Originally	 thesole  respondent  impleaded  was  the  State  of  Jammu	 andKashmir.   After a rule nisi was issued to  the	 respondent,the  Union  of India intervened because the  petitioner	 hadchallenged the validity of the Constitution (Application  toJammu and Kashmir) Order, 1954.The  petitioner,  P.  L. Lakhanpal,  aged  approximately  28years,	describing  himself  as the  Chairman,	End  KashmirDispute Committee, has moved this Court against the order ofthe State detaining him in Kothi Bagh sub-jail in  Srinagar.The application is based on the following allegations.	 Thepetitioner is normally a resident of 9821, Nawabganj,  Delhi6. He went to Kashmir on a permit on the 24th September thisyear  "on a study-cum-pleasure trip".  He has been  evincingkeen interest in Kashmir politics since the year 1946,	whenas  General  Secretary	of  the	 Congress  Socialist  Party,Lahore,	 be  was closely associated with the  "Quit  Kashmirmovement".  Last year he wrote a book entitled I  'CommunistConspiracy  in Kashmir", copies of which had been seized  bythe  Delhi  Police  but	 were  subsequently  released.	 Thepetitioner  in the book aforesaid, as also elsewhere in	 thepress  and  on	the platform, claims  to  have	been  making"trenchant criticism of the Kashmir cabinet headed by BakshiGhulam Mohammed and also of the Government of India's policyin  regard  to	Kashmir".   He claims to  be  known  as	 thesupporter  of  Sheikh  Mohd.   Abdullah,  the  former  PrimeMinister of Kashmir, and to have expressed the opinion	thathe "has been the victim of a heinous conspiracy motivated bylust  for power between the communists and the rightists  onthe one hand and Bakshi Ghulam Mohammed, the present KashmirPrime Minister, on the other".	He also claims to have	beenadvocating  the cause of the ex-Prime Minister aforesaid  ofKashmir whose detention has been severely criticized by him.He  has	 "also	publicly exposed and  denounced	 the  brutalexcesses  committed by the police and authorities under	 theBakshi Government throughout1104the  State".   He has characterized  the  State	 ConstituentAssembly  as having forfeited the confidence of the  people.He  claims to have "declared that the Bakshi cabinet,  whichin  his	 view  is  dominated  by  the  communists,  is	 thecorruptest,   the  most	 tyrannical  and  the	most   hatedGovernment that the State has ever had".  Similar views wereexpressed by him in telegrams said to have been sent to	 theSadar-i-Riyasat	 of Jammu and Kashmir, to the  President  ofIndia and to the Prime Minister of India.  He claims to haveorganized  a "persistent campaign to secure support for	 hisviews  on Kashmir among the public and leaders of  politicalthought".   The aforesaid activities of the  petitioner,  hefurther claims, have "provoked a bitter controversy  betweenhim  and the Indian Prime Minister".  In this connection  hemakes reference to certain statements said to have been madeby the Prime Minister of India which it is not necessary  todetail here except the following:-"During the last few months, however, I have become aware ofhis  (the  petitioner's) activities and have  inquired	intothem.	These inquiries led me to the conclusion that  theseactivities  are of a most objectionable character which	 canonly help the enemies of our country".The  petitioner also claims to be the General  Secretary  ofthe World Democratic Peace Congress.  In this connection  hemakes  certain other allegations against the Prime  Ministerof India which are not relevant to the case.  He also  makesa  grievance  that it was reported in a daily  newspaper  ofSrinagar  called Khidmat that the present Prime Minister  ofJammu  and  Kashmir had described him as "a traitor  and  anenemy  of  the nation".	 He then  describes  his  activitiesduring	three days in Srinagar meeting people  from  variouswalks  of  life,  including editors of	the  newspapers	 andmembers	 of the State Assembly.	 On the 29th  September,  hesays,  be left Srinagar for Anantnag in the company  of	 thealleged	 leader	 of  the  opposition  in  the  Assembly	 andPresident  of the Jammu and Kashmir Plebiscite Front,  namedMirza Afzal Mohd.  Beg, who, it may be added, has also1105been in detention under the orders of the Jammu and  KashmirGovernment, as stated by the Advocate General of that State.At Anantnag he claims to have spent two days as the guest ofMr.  Beg meeting people of the town and	 neighbouring  areas"listening  to their harrowing tales of woe".  On  the	30thSeptember   be	"addressed  an	informal  meeting   of	 thePlebiscite  Front Workers at Mr. Beg's residence".  He	cameback  to Srinagar on the 1st October and left for Sopore  onthe  2nd October.  There he addressed an informal  gatheringof a few hundred workers on the same lines as he had done atAnantnag.   On the 3rd October he personally banded  to	 theP.A.  to  the  Chief  Secretary	 of  Jammu  and	 Kashmir  anapplication seeking permission for an interview with  SheikhAbdullah  in  the Kud jail where he has been  in  detention.During his stay in Srinagar, he states, he made unsuccessfulattempts to contact the State Prime Minister for a  meeting.In  the	 afternoon  of	the 4th	 October  be  held  a  pressconference   at	  which	 he  "made  a	written	  statement"complaining  of "such barbaric brutalities,  such-insecurityof  life,  property and honour and such callousness  on	 thepart  of the administration as are evidenced in your  valleyonly  go to show that the Bakshi Government is just  anothername   for  legalized  lawless,	 disorder,  corruption	 andnepotism".   In	 the early hours of the morning of  the	 5thOctober the Superintendent of Police, Srinagar, read out  tohim  the order of detention passed by the Cabinet  and	tookhim  into  custody and detained him in	the  sub-jail  KothiBagh.	The order of detention (Annexure "D" at page  20  ofthe paperbook) is in these terms:-"GOVERNMENT OF JAMMU AND KASHMIR CHIEF SECRETARIAT  (GENERALDEPARTMENT)Subject:-Detention of P. L. Lakhanpal, Chairman, End KashmirDispute	 Committee  at	present residing  in  Kashmir  GuestHouse,	Lal  Chowk,  Amira Kadal,  Srinagar,  under  section3(1)(a)(i)  of	the Jammu and Kashmir  Preventive  DetentionAct, 2011.1106Read:-Memorandum  No. IS-164-D/55 dated 4-10-1955, from	 theMinister Incharge, Law andOrder.		  Order No. 1644-C of 1955		  Dated 4th October, 1955.The  Government	 having considered the facts stated  in	 thememo  of the Minister Incharge, Law and Order are  satisfiedthat  it is necessary to detain P. L.  Lakhanpal,  Chairman,End Kashmir Dispute Committee at present residing in KashmirGuest  House, Lal Chowk, Amira Kadal, Srinagar, with a	viewto  preventing him from acting in any manner prejudicial  tothe  security  of  the State.	Accordingly  the  Governmenthereby	accord	sanction  to the Order	annexed	 hereto	 andauthorize  the	Chief Secretary to Government to  issue	 thesame over his signature.By Order of the Cabinet, , Sd. G.M. BakshiPrime Minister".The order actually 'served on the petitioner is an  annexureto the cabinet order (Annexure 'E' at page 21 of the  paper-book) which is in these terms:"GOVERNMENT OF JAMMU AND KASHMIR.  Annexure to Cabinet OrderNo. 1644-C of 1955,		      dated 4-10-1955.			 O r d e r.Whereas	 the Government are satisfied with respect to P.  L.Lakhanpal,  Chairman,  End  Kashmir  Dispute  Committee,  atpresent	  residing  in	Kashmir	 Guest	House,	Lal   Chowk,Amirakadal, Srinagar that with a view to preventing him fromacting in a manner prejudicial to the security of the  Stateit is necessary to make an order directing that the said  P.L.Lakhanpal be detained:Now,  therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by	sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Jammu and Kashmir PreventiveDetention  Act,	 2011, the Government are pleased  to  orderthat the said P. L.1107Lakhanpal be detained in sub-jail, Kothibagh, Srinagar;Notice of this Order shall be given to the saidP.   L. Lakhanpal by reading over the same to him.By order of Government.Sd. Ghulam AhmadChief Secretary to Government".It  is	this  order  which  the	 petitioner  challenges	  as"malicious,  mala  fide,  vague	 and  capricious,  illegallydepriving  the petitioner of his fundamental right  to	lifeand  personal  liberty guaranteed under article	 21  of	 theConstitution as extended to the State of Jammu and Kashmir".The  order of the petitioner's detention is also  challengedas  unwarranted	 and illegal as the order sent to  the	jailauthorities  does  not	bear  the  signature  of  the  PrimeMinister   of  Jammu  and  Kashmir  and	 also  because	 thepetitioner  has not been supplied, in spite of demands	madeby him, with the grounds on which the order of his detentionis  based,  "in clear violation of  his	 fundamental  rightsguaranteed  under  clause  (5) of article  22  of  the	Con-stitution  as extended to the State of Jammu and Kashmir  bythe  Constitution (Application to Jammu and Kashmir)  Order,1954".The State has filed an answer to the petitioner's  affidavitin  support of his petition.  The affidavit filed on  behalfof the State is sworn to by Shri Pirzada Ghulam Ahmad, ChiefSecretary  to the Government.  In this affidavit  he  deniesthat  the  petitioner had come to Kashmir  on  a  study-cum-pleasure trip as alleged by him.  He further states that thepetitioner during his stay in Kashmir "actually engaged him-self in activities prejudicial to the security of the State"and that the Government was "satisfied that it is not in thepublic interest to communicate to the petitioner the groundsof the said detention order".  The affidavit further  statesthat the petitioner's "detention was ordered by the  Cabinetnot  for any collateral purpose but because  the  Governmentwas  satisfied	that the activities of the  petitioner	werecalculated to prejudice the security of the State"1401108The  allegations of improper motive and mala fides  made  bythe   petitioner  are  denied  as  wholly   "unfounded	 andbaseless".    It  is  also  denied  that  the	petitioner'sdetention  was	illegal or that the provisions	of  the	 Actunder which the order had been passed were unconstitutional.The affidavit ends by stating that it is apprehended that ifthe petitioner were to be released, he is "likely to indulgefurther	 in  activities which would greatly  jeopardize	 thesecurity of the State" and that the detention order had beenmade  solely with a view to preventing the  petitioner	fromdoing any further mischief.The Act impugned in this case provides that it shall  remainin  force  for a period of five years from the date  of	 itscommencement.  The relevant portion of section 3 is in theseterms:-(1)  The Government may-(a)  if	 satisfied  with respect to any person that  with  aview to preventing him from acting in any manner prejudicialto-(i) the security of the State; or........ it is necessary soto  do,	 make  an  order  directing  that  such	 person	  bedetained". The  main  attack  against  the  orders  served  upon	 thepetitioner  is against the following paragraph in the  orderdated the 7th October 1955:-"Now,  therefore, the Government, in exercise of the  powersconferred by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 8  ofthe  said Act, hereby declare that it would be	against	 thepublic	interest to communicate to the said P. L.  Lakhanpalthe grounds on which the detention order has been made".That  part  of	the order of detention	passed	against	 thepetitioner is in consonance with section 8 of the Act  whichis in these terms:-"(1)  When a person is detained in pursuance of a  detentionorder, the authority making the order shall, as soon as	 maybe,  communicate to him the grounds on which the  order	 hasbeen made, and shall afford him the earliest opportunity  ofmaking a representation against the order to the Government;Provided that nothing contained in this sub-sec-1109tion  shall apply to the case of any person detained with  aview to preventing him from acting in any manner prejudicialto  the	 security of the State if the  Government  by  orderissued in this behalf declares that it would be against	 thepublic	interest to communicate to him the grounds on  whichthe detention order has been made.(2)Nothing in sub-section (1) shall require the authority todisclose  facts which it considers to be against the  publicinterest to disclose".The  proviso to the section just quoted makes provision	 forsuch  cases as come within the purview of section  3(1)	 (a)(i) of the Act; that is to say, a person in the position  ofthe petitioner who has been detained for preventing him fromacting	in  any manner prejudicial to the  security  of	 theState of Jammu and Kashmir is outside the general rule	laiddown  in section 8(1) if the Government declares as  it	 hasdone in this case, that it would be against the public inte-rest  to  communicate  to  him	the  grounds  on  which	 thedetention order has been made.	It is not contended that theorders	served upon the petitioner are not justified by	 theterms  of the section quoted above.  But it has been  arguedby the learned counsel for the petitioner that the terms  ofthe  section  are  unconstitutional  inasmuch  as  they	 areinconsistent  with the provisions of articles 21 and  22  ofthe Constitution and are therefore to the extent of such  inconsistency void in view of the provisions of article 13  ofthe  Constitution.   This  argument  presupposes  that	 thepetitioner can invoke the aid of those articles.  It has notbeen  contended on behalf of the petitioner that apart	fromthe   provisions  of  Part  III	 of  the  Constitution	 thepetitioner  has	 any fundamental rights guaranteed  to	him,Therefore, if articles 21 and 22 are out of the way, as willpresently appear, the argument is without any force.The  Constitution does not apply to the State of  Jammu	 andKashmir	 in  its  entirety.   On the  14th  May,  1954,	 thePresident  of India in exercise of the powers  conferred  byclause	(1)  of	 article 370 of the  Constitution  made	 andpromulgated with the concur-1110rence  of the Government of the State of Jammu and  Kashmir,the  Constitution (Application to Jammu and Kashmir)  Order,1954 (which shall be described hereinafter as "The  Order").It  came  into	force on the same  day	and  superseded	 theConstitution  (Application  to	Jammu  and  Kashmir)  Order,1950..	By its terms the Order provides that in addition  toarticles I and 370, the specified provisions of the  Consti-tution shall apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir subjectto  the exceptions and modifications indicated therein.	  Inso far as those exceptions and modifications are relevant toour present purpose, it is provided that in clauses (4)	 and(7) of article 22 "The Legislature of the State of Jammu andKashmir" shall be substituted for "Parliament", so that	 theLegislature  of the State of Jammu and Kashmir is  competentto legislate in respect of preventive detention.  In article35, clause (c) has been added, which is in these terms:-"No  law  with respect to preventive detention made  by	 theLegislature  of	 the  State of Jammu  and  Kashmir,  whetherbefore	or  after  the	commencement  of  the	Constitution(Application  to  Jammu and Kashmir) Order, 1954,  shall  bevoid  on the ground that it is inconsistent with any of	 theprovisions  of	this Part, but any such law  shall,  to	 theextent	of such inconsistency, cease to have effect  on	 theexpiration  of five years from the commencement of the	saidOrder, except as respects things done or omitted to be	donebefore the expiration thereof".The  effect  of	 this  modification in	article	 35  of	 theConstitution  is that such of the provisions of the  Act  asare inconsistent with Part III of the Constitution shall  bevalid	until  the  expiration	of  five  years	  from	 thecommencement  of the Order.  This is an exception which	 hasbeen engrafted on the Constitution in respect of fundamentalrights	relating to personal liberty for the limited  periodof  five years.	 The Act itself has a limited life  of	fiveyears.	 Thus the exception aforesaid is  co-extensive	withthe  life  of  the Act itself.	Hence, so long	as  the	 Actcontinues  in force in its present form, the  provisions  ofarticles 21 and 22 in1111so far as they are inconsistent with the Act are out of	 theway  of	 the  respondent  and  the  petitioner	cannot	takeadvantage  of  those  provisions.  Therefore,  there  is  noquestion  of  the provisions of section 8 of the  Act  beingunconstitutional by reason of their being inconsistent	witharticles  21  and 22 of the Constitution;  and	consequentlyarticle 13 is of no assistance to the petitioner.We  have assumed that article 32 of the	 Constitution  underwhich  this  application  has been made	 to  this  Court  isavailable to the petitioner, though the Attorney-General whoappeared  to show cause on behalf of the respondents,'	wentto the length of suggesting that even the benefit of article32  of the Constitution is not available to the	 petitioner.As  he	did  not raise this point by way  of  a	 preliminaryobjection and as we did not hear the petitioner's counsel onthis  aspect  of the case, because in our  view	 clause	 (c)added  to article 35 of the Constitution by the	 President'sOrder was enough to deprive the petitioner of the benefit ofarticles  21  and  22  at least,  we  have  not	 thought  itnecessary  to  examine	and  pronounce	upon  that   extremeproposition.Realizing the difficulty in the petitioner's way in view  ofthe  provisions	 of  clause (c) added  as  a  afore-said  toarticle 35 of the Constitution, the learned counsel for	 thepetitioner  faintly suggested that clause (c) of article  35added  by the President's Order was itself bad inasmuch	 as,so the argument further ran, that provision was in excess ofthe powers conferred on the President by article 370 of	 theConstitution.	No  attempt  was  made	on  behalf  of	 thepetitioner  to	show  how  the	Order  promulgated  by	 thePresident  was in excess of his powers under article 370  ofthe  Constitution.  It was not contended that  that  articledid  not  authorise the President to promulgate	 the  Order.What was suggested was that in promulgating the Order  whichthe  President was authorized to make under article  370  hehad  exceeded  his powers.  Beyond saying  so,	no  tangiblereason was adduced in support of this extreme position.	  Itis  manifest that article 370(1)(c) and (d)  authorizes	 thePresident by Order1112to   specify  the  exceptions  and  modifications   to	 theprovisions  of the Constitution (other than articles  I	 and370)  subject to which the Constitution shall apply  to	 theState  of Jammu and Kashmir.  Clause (c) as indicated  abovehas been added to article 35 of the Constitution only so faras  the State of Jammu and Kashmir is concerned.  Section  8of  the	 Act is not in excess of or  inconsistent  with	 theprovisions  of	clause	(c) so added to article	 35  of	 theConstitution.	That being so the orders as served upon	 thepetitioner  are not inconsistent with or in excess  of	suchprovisions  of Part III of the Constitution as apply to	 theState of Jammu and Kashmir.  It must therefore be held	thatthe  petitioner	 was not entitled to know the  grounds	uponwhich  he had been detained beyond what is disclosed in	 theorder itselfIt  was	 argued that the order of detention  served  on	 thepetitioner or the order sent to the officer in charge of thejail  where he was detained, did not bear the  signature  ofthe Prime Minister of Jammu and Kashmir.  But no  provisionsof  any	 law have been brought to our notice  which  requirethat the Prime Minister himself should have signed the	copyof  the order to be served on the detenu or the copy of	 theorder  which was forwarded to the officer in charge  of	 thejail.	Even the long petition submitted by  the  petitionerwhich is not characterized by sobriety of language or strictaccuracy  does not contain any the least suggestion to	thateffect; and no material in sup-port of it has been shown  tous.    We  cannot,  therefore,	take  notice  of   such	  anirresponsible  and unfounded suggestion.  It must  thereforebe  held that all the grounds of law urged or  suggested  insupport	 of the petition are without any substance.  We	 mayadd  that  we  did not call upon  the  Attorney-General	 whoappeard	 on  behalf of the respondents to  show	 cause	withreference  to  the allegations of the order  impugned  beingmalicious or wanting in bona fides because no foundation hadbeen  laid  in	the  petition on the  facts  stated  in	 theaffidavit which could lead us even remotely to make such  aninference,1113For  the reasons aforesaid it must be held that there is  nomerit  in  the	application  and  the  rule  is	 accordinglydischarged, and the application is dismissed.